

> ■ «
\
Send a gift of wins to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and ail celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelf con arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelf & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
DOUGLAS STEWART VERSES FOR A FILM
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3793
Wednesday, October 22, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
Time-mellowed Dunluce
Castle’s Warrior Days
Are Gone
/"VNE of the imposing features of the
Antrim coast near Portrush in
Northern Ireland is Dunluce Castle,
which stands in splendid isolation on a
steep cliff separated from the mainland
by a deep chasm. Although now only a
picturesque ruin, it was, in former days,
an almost impregnable fortress, guarded
on one side by the Atlantic and on the
other by a drawbridge high above the
sea.
An Anglo-Norman castle, it was built
about the year 1300, and in style it closely
resembles Conway Castle, in Wales. For
many years it was under the control of
the de Mandevilles, who later changed
their name to MacQuillan and became
more Irish than the Irish themselves
They strengthened the castle in the
fifteenth century, and the existing build-
ings, comprising the barbican, two main
towers and great hall, date mainly from
that period.
In the sixteenth century Dunluce was
attacked and finally captured by the
MacDonnels, a branch of the Scottish
family of McDonald. A conspicuous
member of this family was named Sorley
Boye, who played a leading part in the
struggle against the English troops. The
English, under Sir John Perrot, attacked
Dunluce in 1584, and after a siege last-
ing nine months they finally captured the
castle. Their victory, however, was short-
lived, for Sorley Boye recaptured Dun-
luce and later made peace with the
English. His son, Randal, was made
Viscount Dunluce and Earl of Antrim by
James I.
The first Marquis of Antrim married
the widow of the Duke of Buckingham,
favourite of Charles I (1625-1649), and it
was during their occupation of Dunluce
that part of the castle fell into the sea,
taking with it all the preparations for a
banquet party and also nine servants,
leaving a tenth clinging to a window-
frame.
During the seventeenth century Dun-
luce fell into decay, but its towers still
defy the elements and stand prominently
above the encroaching sea. The castle
is now the property of the Northern
Ireland Government, to whom it was
given recently by the present Earl of
Antrim, who lives at nearby Glenarm
Castle.


Learn
Tula
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
——CUT HERE AND MAIlr““ mmm ~"l
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary |
Prospectus, free and without obligation. (
My Name j
Address * |
(5.8.152) ...Age j|
The Red Page
"GEOFFRY HAMLYN"-
AM AUSTRALIAN CLASSIC?
Since it has been out of print for many
years, living a queer sort of half-life
among scholars and literary historians
until Serle was able to say that “it has
always been looked upon as an Australian
classic,” it is extremely interesting to have
Henry Kingsley’s Geoffry Hamlyn
republished for us in a popular format
by the Hallcraft Publishing Co., Mel-
bourne, the same firm which a year or
two ago reprinted Marcus Clarke’s For
the Term of His Natural Life.
Kingsley was the younger brother of
Charles Kingsley, the English novelist and
poet whom most of us remember for
Westward Ho! and The Water Babies.
Serle says “an opportune legacy from
a relative enabled him [Henry Kingsley;
to leave Oxford free of debt,” and he
emigrated to Australia in 1853. He
became digger, stockman, drover and
mounted-policeman, and at the end of
four years returned to England—as, after
a stay of about 20 years to make their
fortunes (the hero goes home with
£200,000), do most of the characters in
his novel.
The book is, essentially, a report on
Kingsley’s Australian travels. He takes a
group of people in Devon, connected by
relationship, friendship or amatory inten-
tions, whisks them all to Australia, sets
them on stations around the Monaro and
the Riverina among convicts, black-
fellows, bushrangers, kangaroos, possums
and bandicoots, then, with a considerable
strain to credibility, whisks them all home
to Devon again to live affluently ever
after. Though he has a plot of a kind,
so far-fetched at times that Kingsley
himself is driven to commenting on it in
footnotes of amused astonishment, it was
his travels that started him writing and
his observations of Australian life that
matter most in the novel.
To be able to read it the modern reader
will have to swallow a good deal of melo-
drama, sentimentality and wild coin-
cidence in the plot. There is one truly
fearful moment when Mary Hawker,
staggering with her baby back through
the rain to Devon after her villainous
husband has been convicted of coining,
sits on a stone step under an arch in
Exeter and meets another of George
Hawker’s loves, complete with her baby.
“Ha! Ha! ” cries Ellen Lee to Mary as
she starts back with a scream, “you’re
welcome, my love, welcome to the cold
stones and wet streets, to hunger and
drunkenness and evil words and the
abomination of desolation. That’s what
we all come to, my dear.” ...
And this is just after Mary has
indignantly repelled an old procuress, also
frequenting the arch in Exeter,' with a
cry of “Out, you false jade! You are
one of those devils that Saxon told me of,
who come whispering and peering and
crowding behind those who are penniless
and deserted ; but I have faced you and
struck you, and I tell you to go back to
your master and say that I am not for
him.”
Indeed one could make a thousand
objections to the plot, and to the way the
story is constructed, A clergyman and
his wife, Mary’s parents, open the novel
with an engagement lasting 25 years.
Their child, when at last they dash into
each other’s arms, grows 17 years in a
paragraph. An absurd witch woman,
Madge the gipsy, possibly drawn from
Meg Merrilies, goes about prophesying
dire fates to all and sundry and, though
she is supposed to be a very fierce
character indeed, allows herself with
hardly a word of protest to be turned out
of doors (in a storm) by old William
Hawker, George’s father, with whom she
is living in sin:
“But,” she moaned, “oh, not such a
night as this, William; not tonight. I am
frightened of the storm. lam frightened
of the lightning. Oh I wouldn’t turn out
your dog such a night as this.”
“Out, out, you devil!”
Mary’s father dies of grief, of course,
on hearing that she has run off to marry
the wild George Hawker, choosing the
very day she comes home to make his
pathetic exit. George’s father dies, appar-
ently from divine vengeance, the night he
turns old Madge out into the storm.
When the principal characters are
shipped to Australia there are more coin-
cidences to swallow. With the whole of
this vast continent at their disposal the
various families from Devon—neighbors,
servants, free immigrants and convicts,
sailing at different times in separate
parties, sometimes intending to reunite
and sometimes not —stumble across each
other again in the N. S. Wales bush
without the slightest difficulty. George
Hawker, transported to Tasmania, turns
up as an escaped convict; so, quite
inexplicably, does the illegitimate son he
has had by Ellen Lee. A friend of all the
parties, one Dr. Mulhaus, a German
general who lost the battle of Jena and
now lives incognito—a completely point-
less piece of mystification—decides after
an unprofitable visit to Germany to
emigrate to Australia ; so does an athletic
curate from Devon ; both bounce through
the bush to the Riverina, and the circle is
complete.
And there is more melodrama. For a
good many years Kingsley practically
loses sight of his central theme—which
is that Mary Hawker must be destroyed
for having imprudently married the bold,
bad George-—and proceeds to write a
pastoral and pioneering saga, rather like
the Brent of Bin Bin books (a resemblance
heightened by the fact that the setting
ranges through much the same area of
New South Wales) in which the immigrant
families steadily acquire more land and
more sheep and cattle while various young
men and maidens grow up and, pleasingly
but undramatically, marry each other.
But then George Hawker arrives at
length from Tasmania, and, in the guise
of the leader of a gang of bushrangers,
proceeds to haunt Mary again by day and
by .night, until, inevitably, he unwittingly
murders his own son—Mary’s erstwhile
baby, not Ellen Lee’s. Then there is a
terrific happy-ending for everybody;
marriage for Mazy with some long-
devoted swain who has patiently waited
for George Hawker to be hanged; a
return to England, and, with the aid of
the fortunes made in Australia, a re-
purchasing of the ancestral acres for all
parties; and even a heroic death as an
explorer’s assistant for George Hawkers
son by Ellen Lee.
If you accept the novel as a period
romance the improbabilities, the senti-
mentalities and the melodrama need not
count so very' heavily against it. Very
often you have to make the same allow-
ances for Dickens and for Scott, and there
is plenty of melodrama as well as plenty
of coincidence in For the Term of His
Natural Life. The nonsense is, in its way,
enjoyable; and it does make a story.
Nor does it matter very much that
Kingsley’s plot turns out, in the end,
hardly to have been a plot at all: for
George Hawker, when arrested at last in
his lair in the snow, says he was haunt-
ing Mazy only to tell her how sorry he
was and that she need not be afraid of
him —a fact which, if Kingsley had
allowed him to state it earlier, would
have made all the terror, derring-do and
tragedy of the concluding chapters
unnecessary.
But what does matter- —making a gulf
between Geoffry Hamlyn and For the
Term of His Natural Life, let alone Scott
or Dickens—is that there is no firm,
striking or memorable characterisation
underlying and coming through the melo-
drama.
Dr. Mulhaus, if he is meant to be a
comic character, some figure of foreign
exuberance, fails entirely: he is a
nonentity. Mary Hawker changes in the
most irresponsible manner from a nice,
impulsive young girl to a pathetic waif,
then to a demezited shrew, then td a
charming woman , again when she
remarries at the end. The principal male
characters, whether masters or convicts,
are so indeterminate as never to make
any clear impression on the mind—one
has the greatest difficulty in remembering
who is who or precisely why one should
be perturbed when somebody is speared
by the blacks. The solitary exception
among the principals, George Hawker,
who has “a skull like a tomcat,” and who
promises to be quite an interesting villain,
hardly comes on stage at all in the later
chapters, so that we never really learn
what his convict and bushranging days
have done to the wild and sometimes
amiable young oaf from Devon.
It is a novel, really, in which there is
only one memorable character: the
author. Kingsley is not memorable in
his fictional disguise as Geoffry Hamlyn,
through whom he narrates the story in the
fizst-person and who is just a vague
shadow, but in his own right as the man
who wrote the novel, flashing through
Hamlyn and animating the whole book
with a personality that reminds you of
Adam Lindsay Gordon at his best, gay,
devil-may-care, aristocratic. If his aristo-
cratic outlook will seem a little odd
to most Australian readers today when
he walks his athletic curate into a bush
hut tenanted by assorted ex-convicts and
murderers and tranquilly preaches them a
sermon on the text of “Servants, obey your
masters” he is amusing and refreshing—
after so much of the opposite viewpoint
in Australian writing—on the drunken-
ness and villainy of the poor:
The mother smoking in the chimney-
corner, the eldest daughter nursing an
illegitimate child, and quarrelling with her
m ° tber in a coarse angry tone. Tie
unlawful occupation probably, or sitting
drinking his wages in an alehouse. That
was what they saw and what any man
ma y see today for himself in his own
village, whether in England or Australia,
that workman’s paradise. Drink, dirt and
sloth, my friends of the working orders,
will produce the same effects all over the
world.
nolitical nreiudice whether from
But political prejudice, whether irom
* e Rlght or tbe keft ’ 15 always [ ata * t 0 a
dear view of humanity—which should
be tke novelist’s sole concern—and the
same snirited Tnrvism that makes
spirited loryism mat makes
Geoffry Handyn entertaining as an auto-
biographical document contributes very
argely to its weakness as a novel. Kmgs-
ley put too great a distance between him-
self and the lower orders ever to see a
P° or man in the round” as a human
being. It seems, too, a mixture of political
and personal reticence—a feeling of class
solidarity; an unwillingness to go too
deeply into characters perhaps drawn
from life—that makes his wealthy
squatters as vague, if not as remote, as
their servants.
A chapter that stands out from the
whole novel for high spirits and clarity of
characterisation is the brief entry on to
th c scene of a naval sloop, the Tartar,
which is hunting for convicts who have
escaped from Tasmania and are going to
J° m George Hawker and his gang on the
mainland. Free from the sentimental
compulsions of his plot and free, too,
f rom an uncomfortably democratic Aus-
tralia with which he never Wholly
sympathised, Kingsley seems to have been
happier in the company of these English
naval officers and Government officials
than anywhere else. It is the world of
manliness and cheerful, rather wordy “rag-
ging” in which he felt most at home, and
he Painted it with a surer hand than any
other scene
“Bad-lookmg country, eh?” said the Cap-
tain*
“Small cattle-stations, sir,” said the Sec
retary. “I can see at a glance. Salt beef,
run « ou ln,’ we l y t , i ttle H of k ’ f r sh t f
™ ®. bill thfOUgfi *6 HOUSC for tile
abolition of small cattle-stations next ses-
si°n Blockstrop, have you duly reflected
w hat you are about to do? You are about
to land, unarmed, unprovisioned, among the
offscourings of white society, scarcely
superior in their habits of life to the
ja d V a a u ™ B “ my'“diaffcliow
not propose to feed you on damper, or
sorae other „ nameless abomination of the
sa^. e sort? ”
“It was only the other day in the House,”
said the Captain, “that you said the small
squatters and freehold farmers represented
dr e greater part of the intelligence and
education of the c °l° n y> and now”
“ sir! sir! ” said the Secretary, “you
S™’we l°7 am U ab ° U ‘-
B ut if Kingsley seems reprehensibly
happy here to get to sea for? moment.
and lf hls people m their universal deter-
mination to return to England after 20
vears on the i and are aot conv incini7
years on me iana are noi convincing
"S cora P a , re „ them * dh u ,ha
D f the Henning letters—which show how
life on the land turned Englishmen
■ f a “ .. . Engusnmen
mto Australians the fact remains
that the novelist was an alert and aff«c-
-* : novelist was an aieri ana an^
tionate observer of the Australian scene:
Q f the countryside if not of the
1 country Slue U noi or me
peo ple. His novel is full of the kind of
stories and scenes that have since taken
on an epic and legendary character ; and,
if m anv other writers have used the same
many omer writers nave used me same
scenes since, it is still pleasant to come
UDOn them in their original freshness as
i a A. ori S indl rresnness, as
t f ****
novelist to use the famous theme
of the , Lost hlld . ; and dld * ™ry well,
too ’ sla y ing hls victi m with all possible
devices for pathos—a bunch of wild-
flowers in one hand and a baby koala in
the other.
He has a notable spearing-hy-blacks,
with a gory revenge taken upon the
offending tribe. He has kangaroo-hunts;
a gallop for life to escape a bushfire rac-
ing his hero through the treetops; cattle
being branded and charging a heroine at
the stockyards ; and a stirring battle with
the bushrangers at the end. All sorts of
anecdotes are brought in to enrich and
complete the picture of the period—such
as convicts flogging their overseer, Fisher’s
Ghost sitting on its fence near Sydney,
goldfields stories, yarns of the founding
of Melbourne, and the legend of a fertile
valley in the Bogongs where a horse-thief
lived with a lost tribe of blacks. He had
a keen eye for the wildflowers and took
the trouble (very rare in Australian writ-
ing) to learn their names ; and his descripl-
- of the landscape, if not distinguished
in style, are always attractive:
He only knew that he was a hunted wild
beast, and that his lair was beyond the
™ ov Y- .p 6 £&&&&
the broken sldtc* full 3tid turbid under the
midday sun. After midnight, when its
fountains are sealed again by the frosty
breath of night, that creek would be
reduced to a trickling rill. His horse’s feet
brushed through the delicate asplenium, the
Venus’-hair of Australia; the sarsaparilla
ti, “ ung m scant P ur Ple tufts on the
golden wattle, and the scarlet correa lurked
among the broken quartz...,He turned
when he reached this spot, and looked
aiound him. To the west a broad rolling
down of snow, rising gradually; to the east
a 5 0b .. P ros .P e ct of forest and plain, hill
and gully, with old Snowy winding on in
broad bright curves to the sea. He looked
overall the beauty and undeveloped wealth
ot Gipp’s Land which shall yet, please
God, in fullness of time, be one of the
brightest jewels in the King of England’s
crown, but with eyes that saw not. He
turned towards the snow and, mounting his
horse which he had led up the cliff, held
steadily westward.
On the whole it is a likeable novel in
which, as A. G. Stephens said of Gordon’s
poetry, there is “a man’s heart beating ”
As a work of art it is much inferior to
For the Term of His Natural Life, lack-
ing its dramatic intensity, its singleness
of purpose and the richness of Marcus
Clarke’s prose. It is no better (if not
much worse) than the average popular
historical novel of today which attempts
to cover the same period. If the term
“classic” means a novel that could take
its place, on its own intrinsic merits,
among the great books of the world's
literature, it has no right to that august
description. But since it has the security
of a period-piece, and so many good
qualities amongst its faults, and so much
to interest the Australian reader, it will
doubtless continue to be reprinted in this
country and to be described by the literary
historians (with a genial inexactitude) as
“an Australian classic”—a term which
we should begin to use more warily.
Australian Speech
Probably the most delightful lyrics in
Australian Poetry 1951-1952 (Angus and
Robertson) are David Campbell’s “Ariel,”
a sparkling little piece of magic in which
a wagtail perching on an old ram’s head
becomes Ariel singing enchantment into
the earth; —-
Frost and snow, frost and snow;
The old ram scratches with a frozen t0e....
He has tossed the sun in a fire of thorns,
And a little bird whistles between his horns
and Rosemary Dobson’s delicate and
witty “Detail from an Annunciation by
Crivelir where a small girl steals alive
out of an old painting to tell how
My mother thought I played without,
My sisters thought I stayed within.
Only the painter saw me hide —
His brush held upwards to begin.
I saw the Dove, I saw the Lady
Cross her hands upon her breast,
I heard a music, and a shining
Came upon my eyes to rest.
Look upon the painter’s picture,
See, he shows you where I hid,
What I saw, and how I listened—
You believe me that I did?
As a solid technical achievement —long
stanzas telling a clear and compact narra-
tive, alive with historical action and
vigorous thought—the most impressive
contribution is Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s
“Transaction,” which appeared in The
Bulletin as “New Australian.” It is
about his grandfather (presumably the
Robert D. Fitz Gerald who was Deputy
Surveyor-General in N. S. Wales and
wrote and illustrated some gigantic and
expert volumes on the bush orchids) sell-
ing his “Strand Street” house to one Pat
Donovan and so making the decision to
become permanently an Australian:
England, Ireland, Europe, are clatter
of tongues and hatreds none understands—
among them voices we have heard, and
matter
touching us and the task in our hands.
But direct memory breaks. We sever
worn threads. It was more than a business
affair:
he bought my grandfather’s house for ever
did Donovan of the Square.
These three poems illustrate, besides
the poetic quality of the anthology at its
highest, its scope and spirit. It is Aus-
tralian in David Campbell’s Canberra
landscape'; European in Rosemary Dob-
son’s distillation of Renaissance art; and,
as Fitz Gerald sums it up, based in the
("Red Page” continued on page 35)


■p:-
j*** -."i >■« i. . i '
5 # *
1
;• •;.
5
I I
! I
?■;■•:!
s
I 1
I n
« p*
ftSSSS
K
- <*£* "-1® ip i
S» irti*"* I *^**”
■■■;:. . *
lii
>
■'-: ■■ ■. ■■ 1
V.-" •
• V|
x -■
SjSA*?:
*■*
mm.
*#*
■ *
mi-
XX-
-.-:■•■■ I
i.. :-■
Jeldi and Gladys Grieve
tailored chenille bedspreads
At last, chenille bedspreads that have been tailored to fit your
bed ... to give that smooth, band-box look you’ve seen in the
home magazines. Rich-textured chenille bedspreads by your two favourite
Australian designers. Order yours by phone or mail now!!
■
Right:
Jeldi Chenille Bedspreads in rich-textured
honeycomb patterns. All styles in every imagin-
able colour, pastels, too. The one illustrated
is No. SA. 3ft., £5/10/-, Double
£5/15/-. No. 24 is £B/10/9.
No. 25, £ 11/15/11, and No.
108 is priced at £lO/10/-
Left:
Gladys Grieve No. 663.
Box-tailored bolster style.
Six inch box heading on
skirt in honeycomb pattern.
Throw-back sham with
skirted ends. Rose, Green,
Beige, White, Mushroom,
Blue, Gold, Burgundy and
pastels. Single, £l4/12/6.
Double, £l4/19/6.
m
mt
m
~, V:*: •>. :H- : V* ■■■, r.'*'*%:o-
- 11 ” l**iW
ftomsmm rnmmmrnixsmmmm^m^mn.
vv- :< "V'V' ’*> •■'
sfiP/'iiiM
*?j &* <5% >&m m3a«* '^wSfc-sfc
-•.-. WHW
'-:- :>
•V';
■•;*.4.-* 5* *•'* « -*,*fc'* *** *■-*•* -•**■> ' : * *. -* -<■ -
9
•*• •=*
•>.s; X. :$; r ;i •%;
:SCJ ;:^: w*:v : :* *•& ■ v vv2
**
sss
Bright Canvas awning and
Holland blinds for summer shade!
With our modern style awnings and blinds your home is cool as a
breeze all summer long. The glare and heat of the sun is barred,
yet a continual flow of fresh, cool air is let in. What could be gayer,
prettier, more practical than our striped awnings? Put them on
every window of your home, over doors, over a shop entrance!
They're the cool, gay way to summer.
r
m
m
Our gay canvas Blinds and Awnings protect your home
from Summer glare, give added beauty. In Plain Drop
or Florentine Dropout styles. Multi or Block stripes.
' - /j >
■■■MmmMM
■ ■ 'vr.f;'
S I 2"" "''"'%/
■ -*-' - - --
~ -
wmm
..
1 1 i,m ij ——
a _ i
Q
We will make any size Holland Blind
for you in Beige, Brown, Green, Cream
or Sand. Fringed or frilled finish.
m
• r\ i i IJTrnj (
i. 71
A
V/l
8
V
p|sv
w\
%
M
zy
0.
Festoons in brilliant Satin. They will fit
any width door, windows too! 2ft. 3in
wide, 6ft. drop. Gre,-am 84/-. Beige rayon
satin 70/-.
WE MEASURE FREE IN METROPOLITAN AREA
Send for ©nr free booklet
If you live in the country you can measure for Blinds and Curtains yourself with our
easy-to-follow booklet. Many styles are illustrated. Pick a style, measure it, we do the rest!
'TROTH !H ADVERTISING'
mm
11111
a
FURNISHING DEPARTMENT, THIRD FLOOR, BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. 'PHONE M 2401. FREIGHT


The great silver-lead town
MOUNT ISA
By HENRY WILLIAMS
TO one living in Brisbane, beset about
by trams, picture-theatres, depart-
mental stores, Mount Isa had a
definite ring of remoteness. A place
in deepest Queensland ; right at the end
of the line; days and nights of travel in
a train.
Going to work up there seemed like
joining the Foreign Legion. There was
an element of crossing the Rubicon about
it, particularly for one who hadn’t the
fare back. Still ...
In Townsville, the formal appellation
Mount Isa changed to “the Isa.” Most
men of unsettled calling around Towns-
ville seemed to have had a spell at one
time or another “up at the Isa.”
They said; “You don’t want to go
there. It’s the last dump on earth. No-
where to go. Just miles and miles of
bush.” Or perhaps: “Well, if you keep
off the grog there you can do yourself
a bit of good. There’s good money
there.”
The Western out of Townsville . , . the
unmistakable stamp of a train bound for
the bush: the preponderance of men;
the shirtsleeves, elastic-sided boots ; empty
beer-bottles shooting from various
carriage-windows as the train chugs
along; the bronzed old cattleman lurch-
ing out to the corridor mumbling “Whoa,
bullocks! ”
It is six hundred miles inland from
Townsville to Mount Isa; from scrub-
land into bare plains and back ihto scrub-
land ; from the coastal belt to sheep
country and then to cattle country.
The land just around Mount Isa carries
very little stock. It is poor farming land ;
arid, sandy, clumped with spinifex.
Nature here, bountiful with minerals be-
neath the earth, has been hardhearted in
the matter of top-soil.
If one expects some winding-gear, a
pithead, a few corrugated lean-to’s stand-
ing bleakly and barely in the middle of
a dusty plain, then the first visual impres-
sions of Mount Isa are distinctly pleas-
ing.
The mine is contained between a few
hills on the top side of the railway-line.
The township is on the other side, free
from gasometers, chimney-stacks or any
other industrial blemishes. It is set
against a line of small hills, and is
approached by a bitumen road running
past a resplendent swimming-pool. With
its two pubs, its straggling block of
nondescript commercial premises, its
small courthouse proclaiming its civic
dignity with a sort of spire on a corru-
gated roof, it looks much the same as
any other bush township. One has to
go back across the railway tracks to get
the feel, the smell, the atmosphere of
industrialism.
The assorted chimney-stacks of the
furnaces line the sky behind the railway-
station, and a long spur of black slag
runs parallel with the northbound road.
Hie sulphur-reeking fumes drift into
nothingness above the brown, arid hills,
pockmarked with small excavations;
stacks of pipes, girders, kerosene-drums
and all the usual paraphernalia one finds
round any big mine’s site litter this
isolated industrial outpost, blistering in
the Queensland sun.
Walking along the road that runs
through the mines area, beneath the tall,
gloomy lamp-standards, the perpetual hiss
of the smelting furnaces in the back-
ground, the dirty-smelling, chemical-
ridden creek creeping round the hill, it
is strange to reflect that not very long
ago this was virgin land, ringing to the
cries of bullockies.
It was only in the 1920’s that mining
began here. In the reading-room of the
employees’ clubhouse is a faded black-
and-white photograph of the founding of
a mining site at Mount Isa in 1923. It
shows a small group of men standing
beside three stalwart horses and an
ancient-looking automobile, with a primi-
tive sort of tent in the background. Now
there are floodlit tennis-courts beside this
clubhouse, and streamlined motor-coaches
maintain a frequent service between the
mines area and the town.
There are three red-gravelled roads
winding out of the town into the vast
spinifex wastes: one eventually links up
with the Darwin-Adelaide road; another
runs east to the coast at Townsville;
the third runs south in the direction of
Charleville.
Two or three of the residential areas
are well laid out, with neat frame houses,
small domestic garden-plots struggling
out of the hard, unyielding earth, and
comely cypress-trees along the avenues.
Other parts resemble more closely the
conventional bush mining-site—shacks of
hessian and canvas and corrugated-tin,
intersected by dusty tracks, with stunted
gums dotted here and there, retreating
remnants of the locality’s natural dressing.
Most of the single workers are housed
in long, barrack-like buildings, sub-
divided into cubicles. In most of the
blocks the partitions dividing the cubicles
stop short of the ceiling, thereby reducing
privacy to a minimum. One wireless-
owner in the block commands the sound-
waves over all the cubicles. Even out
here one is doomed to suffer that tyranny.
Mount Isa has probably one of the
most polyglot and transient working
populations in Australia. For a single
man, doing no specialised job, it is a
place to come to for a limited period,
save a certain amount of money, and
then quit. It is an uneventful life of
regular hours and communal living, with
precious few social distractions. For
most Workers it is so much time written
off one’s slate, but justified if one saves
so much money.
There is the underlying restlessness, the
air of spiritual malaise that one finds in
any tightly-knit masculine community.
The aimless, time-killing, endlessly repe-
titive talk about “when I got out of this
place,” the golden tomorrow that will
never be as golden as it is visualised in
present boredom: the airy speculations
about what it would be like in Tasmania,
on the Snowy River job, in New Zealand
—anywhere distant, rosy and vague.
Though the town’s pubs are two- and
three-deep on a Saturday, there is not so
much overall drunkenness for a place full
of bored men earning good pay. A high
proportion of the workers are Europeans
of thrifty habits, and most of the Aus-
tralians come up from the towns and are
determined to give purpose to their volun-
tary incarceration in the bush.
Chronic drunkards would probably get
short shrift anyway: one has to have
references and explain oneself over a
number of years to get taken on at all.
The wild boys of Ballarat and Bendigo
probably wouldn’t get a look-in in this
tighteningly prosaic age.
The heat gets oppressive with the
approach of summer, and some workers
have their hair cropped close to the scalp,
convict-fashion ; a convenient and hygienic
NOVELETTE
“Little Miss Model”
by Seaforth Mackenzie
A powerful novelette ef the storm
raised in a country community when
a portrait-painter selected a school-
girl of the district to sit for him.
The first essay in this form by the
young Sydney novelist who is
already well-known overseas, and
perhaps the most forceful and solid
of his writings.
In next week’s Bulletin
measure no doubt, but something less than
elegant. A few sport beards, not as an
arty protestation but, as there is no social
round to live up to, simply to save the
trouble of shaving.
The place is infested with the noisy
machines of motor-cycle maniacs. Roads
having no clearly-defined pavements, the
pedestrian’s life is beset with constant
hazards from these pseudo-van-Praags
who come flashing along with shattering
exhausts. Living moderately, one can buy
a motor-cycle after six months here, and,
alas, so many do!
The breezily confident will be heard
declaring, when he arrives: “Well, I’m
going to save £lOOO here.” After a few
weeks he might be heard saying: “If I
stayed here for long I’d go off my head.
Nothing to do night after night.” And
he returns to where he came from, about
£950 short of his intended target.
Actually, there are different things to
occupy one’s spare time: enough, no
doubt, to make a lonely old fossicker out
in the wastes of the Northern Territory
regard this as a miniature King’s Cross.
There are a cinema and two pubs, tennis,
football, chess, billiards and a library of
sorts. But there is none of that im-
personal, cosmopolitan hub that one asso-
ciates with a fair-sized town.
The more stable temperaments, the
men with an eye on their future, may stay
here for years, carefully putting their
money away. But the drifters, “the light-
foot lads,” “the lads who will never be
old,” come and go like city trams. For
them neon-lights are a more gladdening
sight than spinifex —and who would want
to stay among the spinifex with a hundred
pounds or so burning holes in on es
pocket?
Carpet Nights
GEORGE and I, both long-
markers, belong to the same
golf-club. Homing one Satur-
day afternoon after a game,
George looked worried.
“We had far too many three-putt
greens today,” he said. “What we
need is more practice. We’ll have to
get some . . . What about coming
over to my joint?”
Now, George’s lawn comprises
onion-grass studded with patches of
paspalum, and every few months,
under strong pressure and protest, he
sacrifices an hour’s short-approach
practice in the backyard to grab a
scythe and reduce it to less jungle-
like proportions. A mower would
merely bounce back off the tussocks.
“It’s the green you said we want
to get on,” I remarked, “With all due
respect to your occasional scythe-
work, George, all we’d get at your
place would be practice getting out
of the rough, and we get enough of
that on the course.”
“Don’t be a goat!” said George.
“I mean on the carpet —that’s the best
putting practice of the lot. Duck
over tonight and we’ll have a
session.”
George’s wife was across at a
neighbor’s place when I arrived, and
he led the way into the lounge-room.
I whistled.
“New wall-to-wall carpet, eh? But
you hadn’t had that carpet-square
long, had you?”
“No,” said George. “But it had a
crook weave—the ball used to screw
away, and you could never get an
even run. The missus wanted a plain
body-carpet, but I kidded her to get
this leaf-pattern. You see, you don’t
get any assistance from any straight
lines on this for putting like you
would on a plain carpet. I had the
boards sanded, too, so the balls run
true. It’s like a billiard-table surface.
Try it.”
He dropped half a dozen balls,
handed me the putter, took a Royal
Doulton vase from the mantelpiece
and put it on the floor at the other
end of the room with the mouth of
it facing me.
“ ’Struth! ” I said. “If we chip
that you’ll be in the gun.”
“Ah, that’s all right,” replied
George. “I used to use a crystal
goblet, but this is better, the balls
don’t roll out of this.”
It was about an hour later that the
conversation happened to turn to
chip-shots, so George got out his
No. 7 iron. He was demonstrating a
tip that someone had given him to
pause momentarily at the top of his
backswing. As he lifted it the club-
head caught in the loop of the
venetian-blind cord; and as he made
the downward swing the blind shot
up ; the sudden tension at the bottom
of the stroke broke the cord and the
blind dropped with a terrific clatter.
It was, as I pointed out, a lucky
thing, for by the line of arc his
follow-through, of which he is rather
proud, would, if uninterrupted, have
got the centre-light bowl.
We had not long got back on to
putting when the lounge-room door
opened and Mrs. G. walked in just
as one of George’s putts went a bit
off the line, and his wife trod on the
still-rolling pill. She sought to save
herself from a skate by clutching
wildly at the nearest upright object.
Fortunately for me the standard-
lamp happened to be six inches closer
to her than I was.
Slight concussion it was, the doctor
said. But-'golf is a game that breeds
a philosophic outlook, and George
refused to be cast down by the
incident. He was, however, cautious.
“We’d better hang off carpet
practice for a week or so,” he said
when I saw him a few days later.
“The missus is still a bit snaky about
it.”
At the next session I noticed that
the vase had been replaced by a jam-
tin —Mrs. G. was present. She made
several pointed references to the
martyrdom suffered by women
married to golf-mad men.
This is another admirable feature
of golf—it develops in its devotees a
toughened rind. Had I been at
George’s practising with him, say,
“straight breaks,” rolling the biassed
bowl, or doing “hockey-one, hockey-
two, hockey-three,” I would un-
doubtedly have slunk home, abashed.
Being golfers we just went on putting.
My host’s enthusiasm for the game
was perhaps best illustrated at
supper, when, begrudging the time
spent in sitting down to drink his
coffee, he stood and immersed his
muzzle in the cup like a horse at a
trough, the while he tried putting
with one hand. That’s concentration
for you!
At around 11.30 p.m., after several
salvoes of yawns, Mrs. G.
sarcastically wondered if we could
break it up by two o’clock, and then
retired. But nobody can say George
isn’t considerate, for he insisted at
about midnight on giving up putting
in the lounge-room, which is opposite
the bedroom, and retiring to the back
veranda, where we practised chipping
into a tilted bucket. Nor did we play
beyond 2 a.m. As George remarked,
the wife said it was not to be beyond
that.
I saw him a couple of days later.
“You know,” he said, “I’m not
satisfied with the cup we use. It isn’t
the same, pushing a ball into an
opening that faces you. It isn’t a*
real test, like on a green. I’ll have to
think up something better.”
He did, and told me of it when it
had been accomplished during his
wife’s absence. Selecting a position
up near the bookshelves where
nobody ever walked, he had cut a
circular hole through both carpet
and flooring, tacked to the pm of the
hole a jam-tin, and put back the
round piece of floor and carpet, to be
judiciously removed as the occasion
offered.
It would have worked, too, if his
missus, as he said afterwards, hadn’t
been silly enough to dust the mantel-
piece and nearly bust her ankle when
her foot went through it. So enraged
was she, in fact, that she flew out and
chopped the' persimmon head off his
driver, and made him stop home from
golf the next Saturday and replace
the piece of flooring and stitch back
the piece of carpet.
He’s putting down a proper lawn
in front now.
x Having an unreasonable wife is
undoubtedly a golfer’s second-worst
handicap.
BO.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 22, 1952
Vol 73—No. 3793
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior *
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne ,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
CONFLICT OVER ANZUS
Mr. Menzies has said that there were good reasons
why the Anzus Pact should be confined,
for the present, at any rate, to the original signatories.
He was “not prepared to recount them in detail,” but
he says that “if anybody should be under the misap-
prehension that this entails any drawing-away from
the Mother Country, I repeat the assurance which I
have previously given that no such movement is
intended or in fact has taken place.”
Yet to say that a conference which specifically
refuses to allow a British representative to attend,
even as an observer, is “a local manifestation of closer
BnYw/i-American relations” seems stretching things
a bit; and while it can be readily admitted, as Mr.
Menzies does, that “it is not by any means necessary
that every self-governing member of the Common-
wealth should be a party to every treaty and
arrangement entered into with the United States,” it
is surely wise that every part of the British Com-
monwealth should be consulted when British Com-
monwealth defence is concerned with zones regarding
which the whole Empire has a responsibility and an
obligation.
The Prime Minister’s argument that the Anzus
treaty is “a geographical, regional arrangement” merely
seems to strengthen Britain’s case for consideration
even if the absolute need to maintain British “face”
in Asia did not dictate its participation in the pact and
in the discussions.
The United Kingdom not only has important
polonies of her own to defend in the Pacific and on
its fringes, but colonies which are of vital strategic
importance to the United States, Australia and New
Zealand. Nobody has the right to say how these will
be used or defended in case of need except the United
Kingdom and their colonial Governments, yet it is
vital that there should be a general agreement about
them. North Borneo, with its oil and timber and its
important strategic position, Malaya with its rubber
and its metals and its guardianship of the gateway to
the Indian Ocean from the East and of the approaches
to Australia, must be considered when Pacific defence
is considered. And the air and naval defence of the
southern Pacific and of Australia cannot be effectively
and totally planned by the United States, Australia
and New Zealand by themselves, since Fiji, which is
vitally placed, and the Solomon Islands are still British
territory.
So far the only considerable reason put forward
for the exclusion of Britain from Anzus and its
military conference is that suggested by Sydney
“Herald”—-that “any widening of the pact which
would have extended America’s military commitments
to territories on the mainland of Asia was unacceptable
to Washington for purely strategic reasons.” But the
United States is already strategically involved on the
Asian mainland. It has put a finger into Persian
affairs, has huge strategic commitments in the Arabian
oilfields, is helping to arm Indo-China against the Com-
munist influx, and is trying to train and arm Chiang
Kai-shek’s forces in Formosa, which are presumably
prepared to invade the Chinese mainland when they
are ready, and which, in any case, are looked on by
the Communist Chinese Government as ah invasion
force built up by the United States.
The stand of the Anzus military conference is
something that might have been invented by W. S.
Gilbert. The Australian and New Zealand officers
are holders of the Queen’s commission. They can —
and in fact, it would seem, are bound to —communicate
what took place at Honolulu to the Crown of Aus-
tralia, but not to the Crown of England, which is
physically embodied in the same person, and which
in turn must not communicate anything it
is entitled to know, as one of the three ingredients of
the Australian Parliament, to its British advisers,
because the United States of America would not like
it. Absurdity could not go further.
The core of British atom-defence and guided-
weapon experiment—vital to Australia and New
Zealand—is located on Australian soil. A British
officer commands our Air Force, another British
officer commands our naval squadron. Either of
these was qualified to attend and advise at Anzus if
Canberra thought fit, as an Australian officer, but
not in his permanent capacity as a British officer. And
this position, Canberra says, exists for “good reason.”
It is no wonder that there is a “deplorable impres-
sion” abroad in the United Kingdom about what
C °sr s
'i%e e '
STILL SHADOW-SPARRING
has taken place. The seriousness of the British Gov-
ernment’s view of the matter is advertised by the
advice of Mr. Churchill to members of the Commons
not to ask questions pending discussion of the whole
matter at the November conference. Whatever
the result of that conference, however, British Com-
monwealth prestige has been weakened in Asia by
what has happened, and it has been advertised to and
by our enemies that there is a division in the British
Commonwealth caused by alleged subservience of the
policy of Australia and Zealand to United States
domination.
"Labor" Politics in Paralysis
At the weekend the Australian Loan Council met
again for the unavoidable business of preparing to
test the loan market. State Treasurers who have
been blackguarding the Commonwealth Government
for not supplying the loan-money they want must
now present themselves before the actual source of
loan-money, the investing public. In July they
demanded from the public, or from somewhere,
£247,500,000, and Premier Cahill, of N.S.W., still says
“it is the duty of the Commonwealth to implement
this decision.”
How much of this sum they will be able to
raise on the market depends on the interest-rate
offered, which crucial matter they have hitherto care-
fully avoided and must now resolve. What concerned
them all quite as much was the amount of the just-
announced quarterly basic-wage rise. Inflation has
reached the stage when this “disrupter of the economy,”
as the N.S.W. Industrial Commission lately described
it, has become a factor in the cost of loans, too.
As representing the State which has set the pace
towards bankruptcy of Government finances, Mr.
Cahill exposed, during the Assembly debate on the
loan estimates, his bankruptcy also of any plans for
redemption. He blamed not his own Government’s
wasteful extravagance, but the Commonwealth
Government’s checks on credit-inflation for “the
undermining of public confidence” in Government
loans. He thinks, belatedly, that all political parties
ought to combine to restore that public confidence.
But in the next breath he wants the Commonwealth
Bank to print all the money needed to continue the
rogue’s progress of his Administration, in defiance of
Gresham’s law that bad money drives out the good.
He had better make up his mind which of these alter-
natives he will stand by, for he cannot have both.
Nor will he save his transport services from
collapse by playing this sort of politics with the
loan market (N.S.W/ Assembly, October 2):
I have often wondered whether, when there was
full employment, the independence that was assumed
by the worker in a manner he might not have been
entitled to do, and leaving one job to go to another
[the familiar Industrial blackmail on employers for
extraction of extra-award wages, duly reflected in %
Government employment] lias not been responsible
for those now in authority applying a corrective to
subject him to discipline.
The irresponsibility of the workers under this
Socialistic ramp known as “full employment” has been
fully matched in this “Labor” Government’s own
Administration. One Minister (Mr. Downing)
lamented the other day that the Commonwealth’s
financial policy had caused the abandonment of the
State tileworks, a show which cost £BOO,OOO but, as
Colonel Bruxner said, had not in five years produced
enough tiles for a cat to prowl on. And, having
arranged to hand over the derelict show to private
enterprise, with provision for Government sharing of
any future profits thereunder, the Government stipu-
lated for the right of Government officials at all
reasonable times “to call for inventories of the various
assets.” Does the Government ever demand inventories
of Government stores in any of its myriad work-
shops, and, if so, what is the picture?
Maybe if the royal commission demanded last
week by the Federal secretary of the tram-and-bus
union is set up with adequate terms of reference, the
public will be allowed an insight into the cause of
the post-war losses in the transport undertakings
which were admitted to total £20,000,000, and, accord-
ing to one Opposition critic,' should include many
millions more of “indirect deficits” concealed by
methods of accounting against which the Auditor-
General has annually protested.
These N.S.W. “business undertakings” are spend-
ing 265. to earn every 20s. In most moderate language
the Auditor-General says that increased railway fares
and freight-charges cannot be expected to meet “the
full annual weight of last year’s basic-wage increases”
(not to mention those to come), “higher interest-costs
from additions to capital debt combined with harden-
ing interest-rates, mounting commitments for superan-
nuation and the normal acceleration of sinking-fund
contributions.” Even when it is admitted that, as an
efficient developmental service, the railways should
not be required to pay their way unaided, the same
argument cannot possibly apply to metropolitan tram-
and bus-services, whose custom is provided to satiety,
and whose annual losses are now equalling those of
the railways.
On this point Mr. Concannon, M.L.C., for the
Government, simply throws up his hands. “The public,
he says, “seems to believe that because the transport
undertakings are conducted by the Government
passengers are entitled to ‘scale’ as much as possible,
and this is occurring extensively.” The Cahills have
no idea of correction save to demand fnore money
from the Commonwealth to subsidise losses and so
prevent unemployment. The attitude towards losses
from pillaging on railways and in Government work-
shops is no different.
A royal commission meant to take the lid off
these abuses would put the liquor commission’s
evidence in the shade.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Fairy Godmothers Preferred
Despite anything they may say to the
contrary, too many Australians still
believe in fairy-godmothers. That is the
only conclusion that can be drawn from
the voting in Flinders, where, although
the fairy-godmothers handicapped them-
selves by appearing in the unfairylike
persons of Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell,
they managed to convince something like
54 per cent, of the electors that Aus-
tralia’s troubles could all be cured with
a wave of “Labor’s” magic wand.
The promises of fairy-godmothers are
often ambiguous things, and there is
usually provision made for a let-out; but
as far as can be ascertained the Evatt-
Calwell gift-plan is something like this:
Lower taxes, higher scale of social
services ; no unemployment; more loan-
money, lower interest-rates; increased
bank-credit ; cheaper living-costs and an
end to inflation. All that, and Evatt, too.
Only in a world of make-believe can all
these factors be reconciled —or in an
Evatt-Calwell prospectus.
“Labor” has plugged the theme that
the Government alone is responsible for
high living-costs, and, more recently, for
unemployment. Menzies and Fadden are
accordingly the villains of the Flinders
story. They have let it be known that
they believe that Australians can pull
themselves out of their present difficulties
by hard work and economy. That’s
villainy enough for anyone. And
economy, of course, is only for misers.
It is to the Menzies Government’s
credit that, having embarked on a policy
which, though unpopular, it rightly
believes to be in the national interest, it
has not attempted to compromise in order
to regain popularity. Flinders was a fight
between magic-wand idea and hard work,
and the wand won.
But Liberals in general will scarcely be
satisfied with the campaigning of their
leaders ; as in the Anti-Red Referendum
campaign, too much was taken for
granted, and “Labor” got away to a flying
start. The Liberal case was not put
clearly ; the issues were ill-defined. And
the election was fought at a time
when Parliament was struggling through
a dreary session apparently engaged only
in the passage of obscure taxation
measures about which the whole com-
munity was vaguely uneasy.
The Liberal party in some ways has
been too politically liberal. It has failed
to reduce the civil service sufficiently or
to remove from it the Communists and
“Labor” politicians whose presence tends
to hamstring their Administration. What
measures they have taken to deal with
the Socialist banking policy, the prompter
of the landslide which drove “Labor”
out of office in 1949, have been dragged
out of them as though they regretted in-
terfering with Dr. Coombs or any part
of his set-up.
It has been said that the outcome of
the Flinders vote will have repercussions
at the Senate election next year. The
repercussions will be felt long before that.
The rank-and-file of the party at Can-
berra are likely to react at once. With
the country naturally inclined towards
Liberalism and frightened by Socialism,
with the Country party facing the possible
election of a new leader, and with a
consequent reshuffle in the Ministry if
Treasurer Fadden retires, and with the
Government in conflict with the presidents
of both Chambers and the Joint House
Committee on matters of constitutional
importance and on privilege, Government
members should smartly reassess the
position. At present all the initiative
seems to be with “Labor,” which is not
scrupulous about the manner in which
it uses it. And this is all the more galling
because “Labor,” controlled internally by
the Wards, Clyde Camerons and Calwells,
has no more constructive policy at present
than a Carpentaria dingo.
Moscow Congress Results
With changes in timetable, the nineteenth
congress of the Soviet Communist party
has worked out to normal speci-
fication. The Central Committee has been
enlarged to conform to the increased
admissions to the party membership. The
rules have been amended to cover the
needs of a drastic purge, which is already
on. The Politbureau has been turned into
a Presidium with enlarged powers—but
it is the same old Politbureau, as yet with-
out any change in membership but with a
rearrangement which brings forward the
newer blood like Kruschev, secretary of
the Moscow party, who moved the
amendments to the Constitution, and
reduces somewhat in status the ageing
war-horses who a few years ago were in
the van.
Stalin remains godhead, dictator and
lawgiver, with some of the detail of his
duties handed over to the Presidium, par-
ticularly to the Vice-Premiers. Party
overall policy remains unaltered.
The assertions of Malenkov of the
willingness of Communist Russia to co-
exist with a capitalist world were inter-
preted as similar assertions made in 1939
were afterwards interpreted, by Stalin,
who reiterated in different words the
detail of his' speech on the October
Revolution Anniversary of 1939 that
Moscow must be considered as the world
base of revolutionaries seeking to destroy
capitalism. He said specifically on this
occasion that the Soviet Union is pre-
pared to help any colonial people in its
fight for peace and liberty—a colonial
country meaning any country which the
Communists consider to be such, Aus-
tralia included. “Peace” in Communist
argot means peace according to the
tenets of Leninism - Stalinism, and
theoretically obtainable only by Com-
munist world revolution, and “liberty”
means the destruction of Parliamentary
government and its replacement by the
Communist dictatorship of the proletariat.
The Five-year plan put forward at the
conference was like all previous Five-
year plans, but its promulgation was
made interesting by the fact that it was
accompanied by a statement of allegedly
actual figures of Russian production.
Placed against the background of a popu-
lation now well over 200,000,000, the
statistics are not impressive.
A Symptom of Recovery
When the quarterly basic-wage increase
for the June quarter was announced last
July at 12s. (Sydney and Melbourne) Dr.
Evatt, on behalf of the “Labor” party,
hailed it as “disastrous,” and as evidence
that the Commonwealth Government
could not check inflation.
Last weekend the adjusted rate on prices
for the September quarter was declared
at 2s. (Sydney) and 4s, (Melbourne). This
came at the end of the final week’s cam-
paign in the Flinders by-election, during
which “Labor” speakers had been pro-
phesying “another disastrous rise.” Mr.
Calwell said it would be “10s. or more,*’
and news of it would probably be with-
held until after the by-election was over.
These faces were red on Friday even-
ing, but Flinders was sewn up by then
and Dr. Evatt’s somersaulting would not
be noticed —particularly on Caulfield Cup
day. The disaster this time, in his view,
seems to have been that the rise was not
greater: he said it was “inadequate” and
had not halted inflation.
Most people had breathed a sigh of
relief, especially Premier Cahill of Dr,
Evatt’s State, who had said of the previous
periodical wage-increases that they were
“becoming fearsome. . . .nobody wants
them.”
The Menzies Government’s anti-
inflation measures seem to be succeeding,
and if it were an Evatt Government in
office operating them the welkin would
be ringing with the praises of a great
national leader. What the Prime Minister
ought to realise, especially after the
Flinders voting, is that it is not sufficient
to save the country from economic
disaster; he must also seem to be saving
it. Rarely has any Government had
worse publicity service than this one.
Unemployment Figures
It’s about time someone or other of the
numerous statistical authorities made a
close analysis of unemployment figures.
Those published, whether in the news-
papers or in political debates, plainly
exaggerate the position.
There are three main publishers of
unemployment figures the Common-
wealth Employment Office, the unions,
and employers. None of these, it seems,
has taken the trouble to separate the
kinds of people out of work and dis-
tinguish between what may be called the
normal and abnormal worker.
Chief among abnormal workers would
probably be married women whose hus-
bands (and often sons and daughters) are
in constant work. During most of the
war and right through the succeeding
boom years there were many thousands
of such women employed. Numbers of
them had no economic compulsion to
take paid jobs. But the jobs were there,
the money good, and the attractions
manifest.
It’s different now. It isn’t so easy for
women to get these jobs, and such
jobs as there are have become harder
to hold. A once wide-open mart of
temporary work of this kind, in Gov-
emment departments, has shrunk to
nothing.
It is certain that very many of these
women are listed in unemployment
figures. The C.E.O. accepts registrations
for employment from anyone who
applies, rightly enough. And a married
woman who has been employed may,
on losing her job, claim unemployment
relief if, in the opinion of the authorities,
the family circumstances warrant it, even
though her husband be employed.
Where such women had joined unions,
which they would have to do in most
cases, then a union would quite likely
list them as unemployed members of the
union. And when a factory-manager
announces the putting-off of a number of
hands, this type of woman would be in-
cluded.
This is not to say that such women
shouldn’t be registered for jobs. But it
is to say that women in that category
are not normal unemployed. They are a
a feature of war-time and post-war em-
ployment booms.
Unemployment figures loaded with
these kinds of workers are not a true
giuide to the labor position, and every
time some gloom-merchant spouts about
unemployment he ought to be reminded
of it.
Another Board Wiped
Another board, relic of the war-time
regimentation of industry, meets its too-
long-delayed fate with the abolition of
the Maritime Industry Commission by
the amending Navigation Bill in the Com-
monwealth Parliament. It expires un-
honored and unlamented save by the
maritime unions, which, along with the
wharfies on the late Stevedoring Industry
Board, saw in these outfits a half-way
house towards their goal of unrestricted
control of the shipping industry.
The late commission’s absolute jurisdic-
tion over wages and conditions of em-
ployment in the Australian mercantile
marine now reverts to the Arbitration
Court, as it should have done after the
war years. It consisted of a chairman and
eight other members, a proportion of
them union secretaries, including the Com-
munists’ notorious Comrade Elliott, of
the Seamen’s Union ; and so far as these
latter feel aggrieved at thus being prised
off the Government payroll the answer
is that they are overlucky to have lasted
as long as they did.
The commission was created in order to
prevent friction in the industry. It has
availed nothing to restrain strikes, go-
slow, job-control against individual ships
and shipping companies and the declar-
ing “black” of any vessel or cargo that
the Commos chose as a target for attack
by the Seamen’s Union. The practice of
laying idle (sometimes for months) by
union executives selected ships through
refusal of one or more members of a
crew; or crews, had reached a stage when,
especially when such ships belonged to
or were chartered by the Commonwealth
Government, the Government was bound
to assert its authority. In the past two
years there were in the inter-State trade
361 such hold-ups, including 74 Govern-
ment vessels.
A committee of employers and em-
ployees will be set up to resolve domestic
disputes over accommodation for crews
on board. But the Commo-run Sea-
men’s Union will no longer be able to
hold up a ship Hy keeping it a man or
two short-handed. The new legislation
provides that if necessary the master may
lawfully order his ship to sea in such
cases.
The passage of the bill through the
Senate in quick time —amid howls from
the “Labor” party —coincided with a
nation-wide 24-hour seamen’s strike in
protest against the Arbitration Court’s
hearing of the employers’ claim for re-
vision of hours and wage-rates.
Rail Travel—N.S.W. Fashion
“Try Anything Once” tries out the
railway advertisements about “see your
State in comfort”:
Mr. Commissioner Winsor says he is going
to run the N.S.W. railways on business lines
as under private enterprise. This will be turn-
ing over a new leaf. It is a pity he doesn’t
disguise himself and apply, like an ordinary
taxpayer, for a seat on one of his booked-
seats-only fast trains —especially, for purposes
of this protest, the North Coast one. Three
days a week to Grafton it runs, and the three
other days back again.
If we could have had him with us on
the Friday before the Eight-hour Day week-
end he would have booked for Wauchope, after
some half-hour’s queue delay, a fortnight before,
being told that he could not book a seat for
return a week later except at Wauchope. On
arrival at Wauchope he would have asked for
a booking on the Thursday of next week and
beeh told it was impossible—no seats left —he
must go by the ordinary day or night train,
the last resort of any traveller who has tried
them. Then, on the Tuesday, having sounded
the experience of Port Macquarians, he would
have consulted with the local bus people, who,
having rung the Wauchope S.M. in vain for
seats, would advise him to get on to the train
without a seat-ticket and “see the conductor.”
At Wauchope on the day of departure he
would have heard a young couple with a baby
ask the stationmaster if there were any seats, and
the S.M. reply that there were hone, all booked
out, and then turn away. When the train arrived
he would have spoken to the train-conductor (or
“attendant”), who, if he behaved as he did with
us, would have said—“l7 and 18 in coach I,” and
to a porter—“ You’d better get those seat-tickets
written out quick.” He would not have had
time to see what happened to some 16 or so
other waiting passengers similarly chancing their
luck, because he would only just have been
able to scramble aboard as the train pulled out.
Once aboard he would have found there were
at least three seats vacant in every compart-
ment of the first coach alone, and most of
them, at any rate, remained vacant till we
reached Sydney.
From experienced locals on the train with
whom he would have discussed this business
he would have gathered that the railways are
run by the unions, that stationmasters do what
the guard says, and that north of Newcastle
nobody along the line cares a hoot about
administration in Sydney.
The Minister says the N.S.W. Government
railways are out to attract business! How
visitors from overseas, complete strangers to this
land of union-rule, get on must provide some
juicy comments on Australia for the tourist
as the tourist sees it.
More Sugar in Queensland
In its latest annual report the Millaquin
Sugar Company (Q.) says that the out-
look for the sugar industry is pretty good,
“thanks to the currency problem, which
has neutralised the effect of surplus pro-
duction in the dollar area upon sterling
markets.”
There is, too, the new eight-year sugar
agreement with the United Kingdom,
which allows Australia to export over
600,000 tons of raw sugar annually, an
increase of one-third. Along with that
goes the increased Australian population,
which is enjoying good times and eating
more sugar, though lately there are
definite signs of housewifely resistance to
pricey jams and preserves, and some of
them aren’t likely to throw the stuff
about with so much abandon at 9d. a
pound retail.
However, those who run the industry
see good enough reasons for bringing
more of Queensland under cane, and a
not-unimportant aspect of this is that, of
the 1082 new assignments, 252 go to
returned-soldier settlers. This assignment
system limits the acreage of a grower and
confines him to a particular mill. It is
designed to ensure that production in a
mili area is not more than the mill can
handle.
The increased gross area now to be
planted with cane is 162,451 acres. Fer-
tility of the new land has been assessed,
there are promising new cane varieties,
and modern insecticides to keep down
losses from pests. Altogether, there will
now be 8186 individual canefarms on the
sugar coast.
The mills have necessarily had to plan
for increased handling, and this is ex-
pected to run them into £l4 million by
1954.
All of which means more employ-
ment, more business and more money
for Queensland. All the State needs is
a break of the drought in the far north,
it has a record wheat crop, and it could
laugh at the Canberra prophets of un-
employment and despair—if it isn’t
already laughing.
Ineffectual Controls
One of the controls over industry in
Maoriland which should have been
jettisoned years ago, or, better still, never
tried, will be dumped—except for petrol-
reselling and pharmacies —when the Gov-
ernment scraps the Industrial Efficiency
Act (1936) any time now. The two
survivors will shelter in future under the
wing of the young Board of Trade. This
control, like most others, has been more
or less a costly nuisance. It didn’t stop
a lot of backyard factories springing up
to exploit shortages and rake in easy
profits for unbranded goods in the post-
war sellers’ market, which was a happy-
hunting-ground for profiteers until quite
recently.
Three years ago New Zealand’s fourth
secondary industry, footwear manufac-
ture, was delicensed. In the ten years that
footwear was superficially toeing the line
a good deal which couldn’t bear scrutiny
was going on behind the scenes. If
licensing had any value at all it was to
keep out intruders and inefficient gentry
who had no reputation to lose; but
thousands of pairs of shoes from dozens
of unlicensed factories found their wa)
into N.Z. shops each year, and were
easily sold to the unwary. If they col-
lapsed under hard wear, burst at the
seams or took in water like cardboard,
there was no redress, and the country s
(Continued on page 7)


footwear industry came in for a consider-
able amount of undeserved abuse in con-
sequence. Eventually it was revival of
competition that put an end to this piracy,
and, as might have been forecast all
along, it was a far more effective pro-
tection for legitimate'trade than control
which couldn’t be enforced without an
army of inspectors.
Much more important than industrial
licensing to M.L. industry is the shelter
of import and exchange controls, which
give local enterprise assured priority and
a large share of the market. This is
the general opinion of N.Z. manufac-
turers today, after the fright they have
had over the past twelvemonth. For a
while they hardly knew what struck
them when the Government, under the
guidance of the Board of Trade, threw
the door open to imports and allowed
the Reserve Bank to sit back while im-
ports rolled in. Only when New Zealand
was in danger of going broke externally
was it realised that something would
have to be done, and the R.B. was
ordered to jam on the brakes.
Although it has taken months to over-
come the speed-wobble, manufacturers
feel easier about things now, and would
be happier still if they felt rationing of
exchange was likely to continue for a
long time. This is for them real pro-
tection ; licensing of industry was nothing
more than a sham. One of the glaring
mistakes was in licensing three tyre-
manufacturing cos. to share the Domin-
ion’s small market. Today all are up
against a tough selling problem, and have
had to shorten sail.
POLITICAL POINTS
Prime Minister Menzies was quite right
in saying that he had no apologies to
offer for the Flinders defeat. The Gov-
ernment, having the responsibility of
running the country instead of merely
saying how it should be run, could make
no alluring promises and could only
repeat its conviction that hard work and
honest effort would see Australia out of
its economic troubles. Evatt and Co.
suffered from no such, handicap.
Their tactics were simple: Magnify
small troubles into big ones and big
troubles into enormous ones; blame
Menzies for the lot and imply that Evatt
holds the key to an easy way out. Flin-
ders swallowed the easy-cure story,
assisted no doubt by the rotten condition
of local politics in Victoria.
On Monday’s figures it looked as if
K. W. Ewert, the “Labor” candidate,
would finish with an overall majority
of close on 3000, which represents a
swing of about 10 per cent, from the
1951 figures.
• •
Viscount Bruce, visiting Australia for
his installation as Chancellor of the
National University, arrived in Melbourne
in time to see history more-or-less repeat
itself in his old electorate. The former
Prime Minister doesn’t indulge in politics
these days, but defeated Liberal candi-
date Rossiter might gain some comfort
from a study of the full 1928-31 figures
in Flinders. In 1928 Bruce held the seat
with a majority of 11,004; in 1929, in a
swing comparable to the present one, he
lost it by 305 votes. Two years later
fickle Flinders again cheered him on to
victory with a margin of 24,300.
• •
For the record. Basic-wage adjust-
ments from November 1;
Increase. New Rate.
Sydney .. .. 2/- £ll 17 0
Melbourne .. .. 4/- £ll 8 0
Brisbane ~ .. 3/- £lO 16 0
Adelaide ~ .. 5/- £ll9 0
Perth .. .. 6/- £ll 8 0
Hobart .. .. 8/- £ll 10 0
Six Capitals .. 4/- £llll 0.
The Sydney figure is the lowest since
November, 1949, and it encourages the
belief that price-stability is at last being
achieved, despite the Jeremiah chorus
from “Labor” politicians who don’t want
to see inflation halted while they are out
of office.
• •
Reaction of “Labor” politicians to
basic-wage adjustments depends on
whether they happen to be “ins” or
“outs.” Cahill complains of the added
costs and his Minister for Transport,
commenting that
the position seems to be becoming almost
intolerable for any business to be con-
ducted with these increases,
might almost be mistaken for a capitalist
wagepayer. Bert Evatt, on the other
hand, thinks the increases “seem very
inadequate.”
• •
A spiral, like the music in the popular
song, goes round and round. While per-
forming these gyrations, unless it has
very sedentary habits, it also goes up or
down. At the weekend, however, com-
mentators had the inflationary spiral per-
forming more tricks than a flying saucer.
One saw it slowing down, another felt it
was weakening. A Melbourne economist
thought it might be dampening down,
and the president of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce expressed the
opinion that it was ebbing. Funny things,
spirals,
• ©
Calwell was wrong on both counts in
his basic-wage prophecies (B. 15 /10/’52).
He tipped the rise would be 10s. or 12s.
Then there was his insinuation that the
figures would be withheld until after the
Flinders by-election. They weren’t. Still,
he’s sticking to his story that the Gov-
ernment will “dissolve” within a few
months. Flinders he describes as the
beginning of the end. The Government,
echoing Churchill, probably hopes it is
the end of the beginning.
• •
It was commented here last week that
the N.S.W. liquor commission was still
trickling on. Unfortunately just as The
Bulletin began to roll off the press
Judge Maxwell turned the tap off.
• •
Victoria’s Spring-street Farmers sur-
vived another challenge last week when
their Supply Bill squeezed through the
Assembly by 32 votes to 31. “Labor”-
leader Cain, till a short time ago principal
prop and puppet-master of the Govern-
ment, moved the motion which was aimed
at ousting the McDonalds, and the Holl-
way rebels voted with the Opposition.
Procedure then called for a mark-time
period until yesterday, when the bill was
due for discussion in the Council, where
general opinion expected it to be de-
feated.
It is by no means certain that rejection
of Supply would have the result aimed
at by the Hollway-Cain agreement —a
Hollway caretaker Government and an
election held after a redistribution on the
basis of two State seats for each Federal
electorate. The likely McDonald-Norman
riposte to a Council defeat would be to
apply for an immediate dissolution and
an election on the old boundaries.
• •
N.S.W, Oppposition-leader Treatt has
announced his party’s road-transport
THE HUNGRY PELICANS
This cartoon, drawn by David Low and published in The Bulletin
of March 4, 1915, is as apt a commentary on current Loan Council
proceedings as it was on State Premiers’ demands of 37 years ago.
policy: “The N.S.W. Government will not.
solve country goods transport problems
by getting rid of road-hauliers through
heavy taxes and an expansion of the
Railways Department’s competing fleet
of lorries. Revenue from hauliers has
increased progressively from £500,000 in
1948-49 to over £1,500,000 in 1951-52.
There is a definite place in the State’s
economy for the hauliers, and the Gov-
ernment should not rashly interfere with
their legitimate operations.”
• •
Queensland Government has decided
to give away the Peak Downs sorghum-
growing experiment and cut the land up
for closer-settlement. The Gairs are calling
for reports from all directions in order to
make recommendations to their partner
in the farce—the British Government.
Anybody hoping to get a few acres there
had better prepare for a long, long wait.
e •
Liberal stocks in South Australia seem
to be unaffected by the general slump.
In the Stirling by-election on Saturday the
L.-C.P. man, W. W. Jenkins, gained an
absolute majority over his two opponents,
an unendorsed Liberal and an Inde-
pendent. As “Labor” didn’t run a candi-
date disgruntled Liberal supporters had
an opportunity of voting against their
party man without actually voting
“Labor.” They didn’t take it.
« •
At the naming of “Louisa Lawson
Place” (a block of N.S.W. Housing
Commission flats overlooking Bondi
beach) a little company of about 20
grown-ups, six children and two dogs
heard speeches from the Minister for
Housing, Mrs. Bertha Lawson, Mr. Muir
Holburn (who recited some poetry), the
architect who designed the flats, the chair-
man of the meeting, the president of the
local R.S.L., the Mayor of Bondi, the
president of the Henry Lawson Associa-
tion, the Federal member for the district,
the Minister for Housing (encoring him-
self) and the State member (who actually
did the job). After that morning-tea was
served —and the 20 listeners felt they’d
earned it.
• •
J. T. Robinson, a delegate to the Aus-
tralian Road Transport Federation con-
ference in Brisbane, is reported as saying
that the Queensland system of control of
intra-State road-haulage is the best in
Australia. Under that system the private-
truckowner is told what route he can
use, must charge a freight-rate not less
than the railways, and pay 20 per cent,
of his gross revenue to the Government.
If that’s the best in Australia the others
must be awful.
• •
Premier Cahill has announced various
railway-freight cuts on various agricul-
tural-products and needs, on plaster-sheets,
bricks, cement, lime, etc., on pipes, iron
and steel blooms and so forth. This is
an old political stunt. You bump the
charges up high, leave ’em there and turn
a deaf ear to protests, then lower ’em a
little, and go to your election loudly
declaring that your Government has
helped the countryman by cutting freight
costs. Cahill’s predecessor McGrrrrr
worked it to death.
• •
“C.S.”: Secret blueprints of British air-
craft parts were found dumped on a
Manchester golf-course. They were prob-
ably ignored at first because that’s just
what torn-up golf-cards look like, especi-
ally if the players mark ’em like some
I know.
• •
J. McPhillips, who ran the Red Iron-
workers’ outfit after Thornton had been
promoted to Peking for services rendered
to Uncle Joe, has given up the fight
against Industrial-grouper Short and will
not contest this year’s election for national
secretary. As the “Tribune” puts it in
best social-column style, he has “accepted
a full-time position with the Communist
party.”
• •
Unless someone administers some re-
conciliation-powders, tomorrow should
see a crisis reached in the malaise that
has been troubling the British Labor
party since before the last election.
Attlee, fed-up at last with Nye Bevan’s
sniping tactics, is to propose at a meeting
of the Parliamentary Labor party that
Bevan be told to disband his Robin
Hoods and fall into line.
• •
Cahill must be regretting the haste with
which he appointed a commission to re-
draw electoral boundaries. He can
scarcely go to the polls now until the
new plan is completed and new rolls
ready. Yet the Flinders result must make
him wish he could.
• ' •
Downing, Cahill’s Minister for Justice,
speaking in N.S.W. Leg. Council on the
closing of the dreadful mess of the State
tileworks:
The Government is forced to desist in its
efforts to produce tiles because of the
financial policy introduced by the Com-
monwealth Government.
These Socialists have only to go on in
this strain long enough and they will
justify the Menzies credit-control up to
the hilt.
• •
This pother about a temporary surplus
in coal-production after years of hand-
to-mouth (or truck-to-furnace) condi-
tions revives thought of a once-valuable
export-trade in coal. In the early years
of the century the Newcastle fields ex-
ported nearly two million tons a year
overseas. South American countries,
notably Chile and Peru, were the biggest
buyers, but the Philippines, Hong Kong,
East Indies and India also took con-
siderable quantities ; so did Hawaii and
the U.S. Pacific-coast ports. By the
1920’s the figure was down to a million
and falling fast; by the time the depres-
sion came it had petered out altogether.
Some of the markets were lost through
the countries developing their own re-
sources, but the main factors were high
prices and uncertainty of delivery. The
markets are still there if Australia is
interested.
• •
While complaints are being made that
N. S. Wales coal has priced itself out of
some of its best markets, the South Aus-
tralian Government has just been able
to announce a reduction of 2s. 6d, a ton
on its Leigh Creek coal. This makes
the cost of the local product £2 15s. lid.
a ton compared with Newcastle coal at a
landed cost of £6. Of course, the New-
castle coal has a higher calorific value
than Leigh Creek, but at that price it
would need to.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Slim”: In war-time Switzerland a
precision-instrument firm offered appren-
ticeships to jobless refugees. I went in
with four other applicants, although I
knew naught of the trade. “Don’t worry
about factory experience,” said the inter-
viewer. “We want ordinary abilities and
commonsense. Now sit at these five
tables and tick off correct answers to our
general-knowledge test.” After lunch the
interviewer handed us back our answer-
sheets, confessing that he had not found
time to mark them. Would we do the
job for him? Sure, we would! He
called the model answers; we blue-
pencilled our own answer-sheets and re-
ported scores. The interviewer then ex-
plained that it was not a general know-
ledge test at all but an honesty test. He
had only pretended not to mark our
answer-sheets the first time. I got top
fgd
"Ah ! Three-course meal , eh?"
general-knowledge score, but unfortu-
nately I also topped the list in the dis-
honesty test.
“Uramao”: When a gathering of
dentists held a conference in Dunedin
(N.Z.) recently, chocolates, sweets and
biscuits were denounced in good round
terms as enemies to the teeth of the
nation. During the fulminations the
wives of the gum-diggers were being en-
tertained by one of the biggest chocolate-
and biscuit-firms in the Dominion. Re-
ports say that the amount of sweets and
biscuits consumed by the ladies at that
one sitting would have filled all the
cavities excavated by their hubbies in 12
months.
❖ ❖ 4
“Nautilus”: Saturday afternoon —and
we were watching the cricket-match from
our car parked by the roadside. After
about half an hour our enjoyment was
shattered by a loud crash and a yell from
the rear of the car. I climbed out to find
a large beery-looking bloke, somewhat
the worse for wear, sprawling on his face
in the roadway and badly mixed up with
his bicycle. After I had helped sort out
man from machine, he staggered to his
feet and, swaying in the breeze, tried to
make both his eyes focus at once. He
glared at me indignantly and said, “Don’t
you know the rule o’ die road?” I told
him I did, whereat he continued, “Well,
why didn’t you put your flaming hand up
to show you were going to stop?”
*> * *>
“Aestur”: I’ve never been caught by
a Wild Man from Borneo (B. 1/10/’52),
but one year at Hobart regatta after we
had sampled everything from fairy-floss
to hot-dogs-and-tomato-sauce, and had
paid our bobs to see the pugs and
wrestlers, the five-legged cow, the Wall of
Death and the Lady of the Snakes, my
brother and I were on our way out, dog-
tired but happy, with only our tram-fares
left. Then we were pulled up by a sign;
See the Giant Arab, Eight Feet High.
Well, we knew Primo Camera was 6ft.
Bin.—what would a bloke another foot
and a bit look like! We couldn’t resist
it; bang went our tram-fares, though it
was a four-mile tramp home. Inside the
tent stood the Giant Arab —a bored, grey,
flea-bitten draughthorse.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”; Like “Doric” (B. 15/10/’52) I
also visited the field of Waterloo. A
party of Diggers camped at Charleroi
after the Armistice, we went out by Army
lorry to the famous battlefield, but by
the time we got to the Mound a pea-soup
fog had descended. The guide, however,
took us up, and as we gazed out into
the misty gloom, with the visibility limited
to about 50yds., he valiantly endeavored
to initiate us into the mysteries of high
strategy as practised a century before.
“Zair”—he flung out an arm to the right
—“ze Emporair ’e sat ’is ’orse! Over
zair” —here he peered to the left as if he
would penetrate to the exact sod —■
“Wellington ’e ’ave his troops drawn up.
From ’ere” —pointing vaguely at the back
—“Marechal Ney ’e fling ’is horse at ze
Eengelish squares drawn up. Bliicher” —
an arm flung at the surrounding murk—
“’e lose touch for ze Eengelish for
while” It was then that the bored
Blue spoke up. “Yair,- we know,” he
drawled. “’E’d forgotten to bring his
bloody foghorn!”
❖ * ❖
“Jasby”; In a 8.8. C. talk a natural-
history enthusiast commented thus; “Any
child can keep frog-spawn in the season ;
they can keep caterpillars in a shoe-box ;
“ Good! Some Chinese food at last!"
they can make quite a nice aquarium of
ordinary pond creatures —newts, young
fish, it doesn’t really matter what they
are—in a two-pound jam-jar.” The
writer is quite correct. Any child can
do those things. The trouble is that quite
a lot of them do.
•|J+
“Doric”: How many Randwick punters
associate the course with the quaint little
village in Gloucestershire after which the
suburb is named? I recently visited
“Runnick,” as the natives call it, and fell
a victim to its rural charm and its de-
lightful situation in the Cotswold Hills.
When I let it be known that I was a
native of Sydney’s Randwick, I was over-
whelmed with hospitality, shown the
Druidical remains amidst lovely wild-
flowers, in the near-by woods, viewed the
birthplace of Simeon Pearce, who founded
our Randwick, and inspected old records
in the little Church of St. John the
Baptist—rather reminiscent of our St.
Jude’s, but on a smaller scale. I’m sure
Runnick has never heard of s-p. betting,
—it is completely innocent of jockeys,
bookies, urgers and sardine-tin electric-
trams.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Dick Turpin”: Don’t know about the
usefulness of garlic as a cure for ’flu
.(B. 1/10/’52), but it’s surely a friend to
those who habitually mix alcohol with
their petrol. One man I know wouldn’t
take his car out of the garage without a
supply of garlic in the glovebox for
emergencies.
“St. James”: Let me speak in defence
of garlic. Where would my Sunday
roast-beef be without its gentle but pene-
trating influence? When the price per-
mitted the indulgence I carried a bulb or
two about in my pocket, as some people
carry peppermints, and I remember an
evening in the front-stalls at the grand
opera when two gleaming white shirt-
fronts ached with indignation at my
presence. But I didn’t mind, as the
beautiful prima donna flashed her dark
luminous eyes at me —she had scented a
fellow-lover of garlic. I have seen a
bunch of lunchtime blokes who all reeked
of stale beer and dirty pipes sit a dozen
yards away from another bloke who had
garlic in his sandwiches. But I’ve long
suspected that the superior sniff “Pooh,
garlic!” is a false pose of superiority, a
claim to being “retained.” Of course,
as a lover of its rare bouquet and taste,
I am well aware that we lovers of the
bulbous root are outnumbered by the
Philistines; even my Nuttall’s dictionary
gives this insulting definition of a gentle-
man who appreciates garlic: “Garlic-
eater, a low fellow.” That bloke Nuttall’s
a liar.
*** ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Go Bo”; These overworked expres-
sions? The one I’m at war with at the
moment is “turned around.” Here in
Tasmania it is worked to death. Yester-
day I heard a citizen describing the
performance of a decrepit locomotive—
“lt turned around and broke down at
Rydaston,” he said. “Then it turned
around and broke down at Campbell
Town. Then blowed if it didn’t turn
around and break down in the tunnel!”
That last gyration would have been worth
seeing.
* ❖ ❖
“Sevener”: Pitfalls of the language for
the old Australian (B. 24/9/’52). My
Naussie friend rang me about a golf
appointment. “Of die golf we play,” he
asked, “isn’t it or doesn’t we?”
*> ❖ ❖
“Bar-E.”: There’s a way of bypassing
locked pantry-doors by riding the service-
lift up from the main kitchen. You
crouch inside the lift, knees under the
chin, poke a finger at the bulkhead button
and drag the fist in briskly before it is
sheared off on the run up the liftshaft.
One midnight I was baffled at pantry-
level where a newly-fitted liftdoor pre-
vented my alighting. I pushed outward
till my shoulders popped, bellowed till
my ears bubbled. Only response:
scandalised stares through the door-crack
from two elderly rats. I gave up and
went to sleep. The cook’s hair stood
up when he uncovered my heroically
scowling bust. He dragged me out,
cocky, dishevelled and sardonic, “I
can’t understand it,” he admitted. I
mentally noted that not all liftdoors
swing on hinges; some slide sideways,
“You don’t have to be spectacular,” ex-
plained the cook. “The pantry-key
always hangs just above the pantry-door.”
THE KISS
“A motorman on the Viti leaned over the
guard-rail to kiss his girl goodbye as the ship
pulled out, fell into the water, and was joined
by six of his mates; and all were in difficulty
when hauled out by water-police, who took
them to Sydney Hospital.”
The sailor kissed his girl goodbye.
Mingling the parting breath
While, looking on contemptuously.
The water yawned beneath.
As they drew close, the ship drew out:
Love never is discreet;
To lose one’s head, without a doubt ,
Is soon to lose one’s feet.
Untaught at mother’s side, a ship’s
May very quickly teach
That such as hang on lovers’ lips
Are only forms of speech.
A sailor’s a more constant cove
Than many people think,
For this one, parted from his love,
Descended to the drink.
Six other men, observing this.
Jumped in to join their mate,
For though they could not share his kiss,
They yearned to share his fate.
Perhaps they hoped to drown their gloom,
But where the Harbor shelves
The water’s full of oil and loam —
They could not help themselves.
Cops fished them out; in hospital
The doctors taking ganders
Could not decide if one and all
Were Heroes, or Leanders.
But here no liberty I take;
I mock no surgeries;
No breach of etiquette I make,
Nor hospital 1 tease;
Enough that they were lucky, then,
For many a kiss much shorter
Has landed less adventurous men
In far, far hotter water.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
COVER PICTURES
Last year, to mark the centenary of
the planting of the first vines at Sep-
peltsfield (S.A.), the House of Seppelt
issued a little book “The Homeland in
Picture and Story” containing a selec-
tion of the photographs of historic
buildings and places in the British Isles
which have over the years appeared
under Seppelts’ name on the cover of
“The Bulletin.” So encouraging was
its reception that a second book has
now been prepared comprising the pic-
tures used during the period from May,
1951, to May, 1952. The list of abbeys,
castles, cathedrals, monuments, inns and
shrines covers a broad sweep of English
history and literature and each photo-
graph is accompanied by a brief article
descriptive of the subject. The book is
available to readers FREE on applica-
tion to “Monuments,” C/o Box 14—
H, G.P.0., Adelaide.


“Long Bob”: Back in ’3l when many
men rode at the Government’s expense
our local cop collected 22 passengers on
the goods. He lined them up, barked a
terse order, “Follow me,” and set out
for the station. On arrival he had only
one follower. In his own words: “To
show him what a blanky fool he was for
coming along, I ran him in.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Croid”: Our ship was traversing the
Suez Canal, and as we passed an R.A.F.
station on its banks the troops there had
a great time calling out to the girls who
lined our deck-rails. Super-optimist
was the one who yelled across the water
to our prettiest lass, “What’s your cabin-
number?”
❖ ***
“Jackstay”: Back in the early nineteen-
forties, when one of his Majesty’s smaller
vessels of war was lying at her moorings
in Rose Bay (Sydney), there came a day
when Number One, having decided that
the men assigned to a certain lifeboat
needed a little practice, set matters in
train and draped himself over the wing
"When are, these sailors going to sea ?”
of the bridge to watch
events. Until the moment
the boat hit the water
there wasn’t a thing he
could pick on. Then came
the moment for the cutting
of the lashings holding the
oars to the thwarts. There
was an embarrassing cessa-
tion of activity and a
strong disinclination on the
part of all hands to look
up or do anything that
might bring to notice the'
fact that they existed. Then
an ominous voice came
from above, “I see that
nobody has a knife.” Necks
and ears burned scarlet;
faint blasphemous sounds
were heard. Again the
voice. “1 see that nobody
has a knife.” It was a
little louder. Then again
came the Voice of Doom
—this time in a shattering roar that
proclaimed their shame far and wide, and
exposed them for weeks to the ribaldry
of every other crew in earshot : “Z see
that nobody has a knife —but you’ve all
got your bloody gold wrist-watches on !”
Next time that boat was lowered she
bristled with assorted cutlery—and it
wasn’t any use asking anybody the time.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wackford”: Sydney’s transport is
getting me down. 1 sat in a tram while it
pushed a broken-down empty one ahead
of it from the bridge to North Sydney
depot. Any hopes I had then of a faster
journey faded when the crews of both
trams held a 10-minute conference, during
which a double-decker bus arrived towed
by another one. Home at last, I picked
up my evening paper to read that the
Mosman ferry had overshot the wharf and
had ended-up on the bank 200yds. away.
The report didn’t mention whether they
got another ferry to tow it off. If it
weren’t for my increasing years, dignity
and inherent laziness I would buy a bike.
*t* *X* ***
“LoulaloX’: With “Ceg” (B. 24/9/’52)
I recall the Fisk Jubilee Singers. They
certainly were not all men, but my young
sister and I did have our doubts about
one of them. Dad took us to a concert
put on by the troupe in Warrnambool
(Vic.). Just before the interval one of
the cast, dressed unmistakably as a
female, sang “Loch Lomond” in what we
youngsters recognised as pure basso pro-
fundo. We were most intrigued by what
we ever after described as “the lady with
the man’s voice” and made Dad extremely
nervous all through the interval by specu-
lating on the singer’s true sex and won-
dering how best to determine it. We
were hurried home after the show each
with a hand grasped firmly in a parental
paw.
“Stevenenery”: It must be 50 years
since the Fisk Jubilee Singers were here,
because I remember I was young enough
DO N 01"
-HANDLE
to try to emulate the soprano Miss
Dazaliah Underwood. My brother and
I were intrigued as to where her black
velvet dress finished and she began. Her
most popular encore was “The Cows Are
in the Corn, Maggie.” There was another
large negress whose name I cannot recall.
Much paler and bigger than Miss Under-
wood, she had a big booming voice and
was billed as the woman baritone.
*t* *t* ***
“Taswegian”: “Spokeshave” is quite
right when he argues (B. 1 /10/’52) that
state of mind can warm one —even in a
Melbourne winter. Otxr technical college,
determined to be not more than 50 years
behind the times, ditched most of its small
portable radiators and installed ceiling-
panel-heaters. Our first night under them
my desk-mate was enthusiastic —reckoned
it was the first time he’d been warm in
school since summer. It made no differ-
ence to him that the heaters hadn’t yet
been connected to the mains: he thought
they were.
❖ ❖
“Marge”: Me and my girl-friend,
Shirl, invite “Shimloch” (B. 8/10/’52) to
come up to Darlinghurst-road the first
night it’s warm enough for us to wear
our new sleeveless blouses and tight black
gaberdine skirts —they’ve a split up the
back-seam to show the lace on our slips.
We reckon he’d find the ancient art of
whistling, plus some beaut, new varia-
tions, is still going strong. Just like the
honorable craft of head-tossing: Shirl
and me’ve given the whistling lots of
practice since we had our new poodle-cuts
and Shirl, who’s real hep, can do it and
toss her head at the same time. We’ll
know you by the whistle, “Shimloch.”
Be seeing you,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Clevesby”: Jake was glumly tossing
pearls to his favorite team of bronze
medallionists. “Avoid the clutches of
females when you are training,” he
warned them. “And never get tied up
with liquor.” He wanted to remove all
doubts about the chances of his team
in the forthcoming championships. He
told them they didn’t stand the ghost
of a hope ; he had never been less certain
of not losing. Team members were in
good heart despite Jake’s sobs. They
remembered they had cleaned up the
competition last year, their times had
improved since then, young Gopp was
400-metres sprint champ, and the rival
club had no swimmers to touch them.
“You must admit that many facts are
in your favor,” I pointed out. “There
you are,” moaned Jake. “Another crack-
pot optimist!”
❖ ❖ *
“Georgian”: One juror too many (B.
15/10/’52)? Sometimes it is the other
way around. When the convict transport
George 111 sank off the southern coast
of Tasmania in April, 1835, 139 trans-
portees were lost, and it was rumored
that some of them lost their lives at the
hands of the military guard, who were
ordered to keep them below decks, so
that the captain, ship’s officers and officers
of the guard might get away on the long-
boat without the danger of being swamped
by a surge of desperate convicts. When,
in early May, bodies were washed up,
on the shores of D’Entrecasteaux's
Channel, and these bore marks of
violence, sabre-cuts and musket-wounds,
an inquiry had to be made. A jury
was called together in Hobart and the
Coroner proceeded to escort them to the
scene of the wreck. They boarded the
Government-owned brig Tamar in the
Derwent, but, because of bad weather
and other delays, when at last they got
there and began disinterring the bodies,
these had been lifeless for over two weeks.
With the largely decomposed corpses
displayed before the jurymen, the coroner
set about calling the roll. Only eight
answered. The journey had been in vain;
they had come without a sufficient
number of jurymen. Twelve were re-
quired to make the inquest legal!
♦> ♦>
“Hohum”: “Cauboy” (B. 24/9/;52)
grants us three moi;e-or-less authentic like-
nesses of Shakspeare. Others are not so
generous. Dover Wilson, for instance,
maintains that even the First Folio
engraving is merely a copy of the Strat-
ford bust, which is itself the work of a
mason, gifted as monument-makers go,
plainly baffled when tackling that change-
able rubber the human face. Dover
Wilson chooses a portrait for himself, the
so-called Grafton Shakspeare. It shows a
young man of 24 (born in Shakspeare’s
year) with an oval face, high forehead,
wisp of moustache, great eyes, very ordi-
nary nose. It looks like a sturdier, darker
Shelley. Although, by all the laws of
logic, it is of no real importance what
he looked like, one would like Shakspeare
to have looked like that.
♦+♦ ♦♦♦
“Proof-reader”: Certainly “disillusion-
ise” is a word (B. 15/10/’52). But,
before writing, “Assistant-reader” should
have turned from his Webster to Fowler,
which, advising “disillusion” in all cases,
describes the other word as “the refuge
of the destitute.”
PANDEMONIUM PLUS
“Noise is the basis of most of the nerve
troubles of modern man.”— Medical Journal.
We pay the price—as pay we must ■
For living in the present age.
None can escape : the fool, the sage-
We strike a boom, and then a bust —
Bang go our cash and all our nervous
system.
Quiescence is—alas I —a dream .
Nothing is muted any more.
Short-mOneyed wives are wont to roar,
Our Parliaments are just a scream.
There are some others, too. Just let
me list ’em:
You jump whene’er you hear the crash
Of shares upon the Stock Exchange.
The papers make a noise—how
strange !
When two athletic champions clash.
From U.N.O.’s halls come blasts and
moans and crowing.
Heavy on nerve and ear may grate
Our ancient trams’ octagonal wheels;
But louder still will be the squeals
Of some defeated candidate
Who on his own pet trumpet has been
blowing.
’Tis truly claimed that money talks —
In fact, ’twill often even shriek.
Who hasn’t heard of shoes that squeak,
Or two-up cockatoo that squawks ?
What of the row when you steal some-
one’s thunder?
Ear-piercing now is quite the rage;
Our surf-belles peel out in the sun.
You might get fired if in the gun.
They shout where men their thirsts
assuage —
Noise shoots our nerves to pieces; and
no wonder!
N.s.w.
S.W.K.
PHILLIP-STREET
Up in Phillip-street the old row of brick
houses
doze and dream and blink awake in the
late
and stately rose of the winter afternoon
sun.
They borrow reflected light for a proud
outdat-
ed parade, and are quiet as if deaf with
their age
and unaware of sirens, trams, cars: all
rose
their brick and green their trees. Being
built so deep
and sure, they will never believe in the
dynamos,
the vaults, the cellars, the commerce
above the stream
to which the hill inclines, or hear the pam
in the cry from the clinical walls towering
behind them.
—I climb to their peace when George-
street becomes insane.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


PERSONAL ITEMS
George Amsberg, elevated to the
N.S.W. District Court Bench, served his
early time in the War II R.A.N. in those
cubbyholes of camaraderie, minesweepers.
Later, he was piloting troopers and such
round New Guinea. Old Fortian, he left
Sydney University with the best pass in
the Faculty of Law and was admitted to
the Bar in 1928. He took silk six months
ago. Absolutely gone on Gilsullivan
operas.
Captain Brian Luscombe, the game
lone-hander who used to fly close over
Communist front lines in Korea and point
out targets, was caught by ground-fire
and crashed into a cliff a few months
back, and the other day was awarded
a posthumous “mention.” He will
rate considerably higher than that
in the memories of soldiers who daily
saw his unarmed little Auster hovering
over enemy positions, and who remember
the relief, in the shape of resultant Allied
gun- and air-fire, his presence brought
them.
Third-degreed hereunder, Colin John
Delaney takes over the commissioner-
ship of the N.S.W. Police Force intent
on ensuring that public confidence will be
fully restored in the force. Built like a
bulldozer, with the casual power of com-
mand of an assured disciplinarian,
Delaney in over 30 years’ service has had
experience in pretty well every branch
of the department. A detective trained in
the school which thrashed the razor-gangs
of the early 1930’5, he was given charge
of the C.1.8.’s first consorting squad, and
POLICE COMMISSIONER
made the first arrest under the then-new
Consorting Act. In 1938 he worked on
11 murders—and made 11 arrests.
Reckoning he knew enough of crime-
handling but insufficient of administra-
tion, he asked for a change to the latter
sphere, had 10 years of it, then returned
to crook-catching in 1950 —this time as
chief superintendent of the C. 1.8. Bowls
and golf are his vices.
In Australia with his wife, to visit
relatives in Sydney and old friends in
Hobart, H. R. Montgomery, elder brother
of the field-marshal, who also went to
school in Hobart when their father was
Bishop of Tasmania. The visiting Monty
served in the South African War, and
in the South African Constabulary, after
which he joined the colonial administra-
tion in Kenya, where he’s been 45 years.
Since retiring he has been running a
coffee and cattle property in Kenya.
Two others of the five Montgomery
brothers are in Canada —one a lawyer in
Vancouver, the other a padre who has
done missionary work among the Eskimos
in the Arctic Circle. The Kenya Monty
is of heavier build than the f.-m., and
wears a wider smile.
First Australian to be so honored,
Harold Dew has been appointed the Sims
Commonwealth Travelling Professor for
1953 —all others being U.K. appointees.
Professor of Surgery at Sydney University
for the past 20-odd years, till recently
Dean of the Faculty of Medicine there,
the prof, was acting-director of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in its early
days. He practised with the R.A.M.C. in
Palestine and France between 1915-19.
Back on ground in which he was rooted
for 15 years from 1912, Theodore Osborn,
Professor of Botany at Oxford, is lectur-
ing at Adelaide University on the rela-
tion of plants to their environs. After
Adelaide he was Sydney University’s
botany prof, for 10 years before shifting
to Oxford. Sydney friends will see him
next month.
Become a schoolie 30 years ago because
he liked kids (he owns six himself), Henry
Pigott is handing over the headmaster-
ship of Brisbane Boys’ Grammar for
health reasons. A Duntroon man, one-
time chemistry master at The King’s
School, Parramatta, Pigott played a nifty
game of Rugby Union in his day—as
evidence of which he represented Kent
(Eng.), later N.S.W., and won a Rugby
blue at Sydney University. He’s been
with the B.G.S. for five years, the sixth
headmaster in its 83 years’ history.
Another centenary has been celebrated
in Melbourne —that of the architectural
firm of Bates, Smart and McCutcheon,
which designed, among other stately
Melbourne buildings, St. Paul’s Cathedral,
the Exhibition, Scots Church, Ormond
College, the Trades Hall, with its classic
fapade, the old Eastern Markets, the Con-
gregational Church and the Wilson Hall,
recently burnt down. Joseph Reed, the
founder, arrived in Melbourne 100 years
ago. His first job was St. Paul’s Cathedral.
“K.” welcomes an old acquaintance:
This week returned to Canberra (where he
was Commonwealth Treasurer under W. M.
Hughes from 1921-23 and Prime Minister 1923-
29), Stanley Melbourne Bruce, now Viscount
Bruce of Melbourne, who has long left party-
politics behind and sits on the cross-benches
of the House of Lords. Tomorrow (Thursday)
he is to be installed as Chancellor of the Aus-
tralian National University, which position he
accepted last year. A company-commander in
the London Fusiliers on Gallipoli, he was twice
wounded, the second time in France in 1917,
an occasion which ended his military service
and won him M.C.
He owed his entrance into the Commonwealth
Parliament (in 1918, when he was elected for
Flinders) to the lucky chance of holding, and
holding well, an election meeting at Albury,
where the arrival of the Government’s candidate
was delayed for an hour or so and young
Bruce was invited to fill the bill. Two years
later he entered Cabinet as Treasurer, was
hoisted by his party into the leadership when
Hughes quarrelled with the necessary Earle Page
after the elections of 1922, and remained Prime
Minister for nearly seven years. Flinders
rejected him in 1929, but re-elected him after
the collapse of the Scullin-Theodore Ministry in
1931.
His less-known but perhaps even greater ser-
vices to Australia were performed in London,
where he was High Commissioner and constant
adviser to Governments in Canberra from 1933
to 1945, and at the League of Nations, where
he for many years conducted the campaign for
preserving world peace by the greater produc-
tion and distribution of food among the poorer-
fed peoples of the world. He has been chair-
man of the World Food Council of U.N. since
1947, and his work there and in the Finance
Corporation of Industry (of which he is chair-
man) are the preoccupations of his later life.
HiS selection as first Chancellor of die
National University—a post he holds in absence
just as General Smuts held that of Chancellor
at Cambridge—is a signal honor to that institu-
tion as well as a tribute to Viscount Bruce
himself as a great Australian.
Crossed the bar in Brisbane, Com-
mander William Knox Kirkcaldie, for
over 20 years Shell’s chief-engineer in
Queensland, and, in his time, engineer
of many other things. Active service with
the R.A.N.R. began the day after War I
broke out, when he helped capture the
German merchantman Berlin off Sydney.
Later engineer-officer of the horse-trans-
port Boonah, under Captain J. K. Davis,
of Antarctic fame, he ferried horses to
Egypt; and, in the engine-room of a
British cruiser, ferried Doughboys across-
Atlantic. Ashore to Shell in 1923, he
chose the company’s sites on Suva, and
was back in dungarees for War 11, this
time responsible for the reliability of
survey-vessel Moresby’s engines while she
was sounding in unhealthy waters between
Moresby and Cape York, and in entrances
to the Reef. Later second-dicky to the
Director of Engineering at Navy Office,
he was the first engineer of the R.A.N.R.
to reach commander’s rank. He leaves
his naijie on the chart beside a reef off
Cape York.
New Director of Operational Require-
ments for the R.A.F., Air-Commodore
W. H. Kyle hails from Kalgoorlie, and
went straight to the R.A.F. College at
Cranwell (Eng.) from Guildford
Grammar. After that he went . to
Ijmuiden—leader of 139 Bomber
Squadron, his target the great iron- and
steelworks. With D.F.C. from that raid,
the Westralian was given command of
the bomber-station where the first day-
light Mosquito squadron was formed.
Berlin will remember what followed. An
A.D.C. to the King in 1949, Kyle is
now an A.D.C. to the Queen.
“Macnell”: Due for launching at
Clydebank (Scotland) on Friday, the New
Zealand Shipping Co.’s 10,000-ton Otaki
is successor to that Otaki which went
down fighting the heavy German raider
Moewe, in War I. The new Otaki is
unique in that she will wear the Victoria
Cross. Captain A. Bissett Smith, the
War I Otaki’s master, went down with
his ship; he was posthumously appointed
an hon. lieutenant, R.N.R., so that, as a
member of a fighting service, he could
be awarded the V.C, On the death of
Smith’s widow, his Cross was auctioned,
bought by the N.Z. Shipping Co., and
will be placed in the new Otaki, together
with paintings of Smith and the duel he
fought with the raider. Only one other
V.C. has gone to a Merchant Navy
officer —Commander Richard Stannard,
well-known in Australian shipping, who
was in Sydney a few months ago, staff-
commander in the Orontes. He won his
Cross at Namsos, in Norway, when in
command of the Arab.
New head of the Australian Joint
Services Staff in Washington, Air Vice-
Marshal Alan Leslie Walters soldiered
before he flew. He graduated from
Duntroon to the Staff Corps in 1937,
transferring three years later to the
R.A.A.F, Ground activities include tennis
and squash.
For the first time since it was instituted
by the Australian Association of Adver-
tising Agencies three years ago, the W. R.
McFerran Award has been awarded —to
L. W. Farnsworth, managing-director of
George Patterson Pty., Ltd. Farnsworth
gets the bronze plaque for his
efforts in raising advertising standards in
Australia. A director of his concern
since he came back to Sydney from two
years on the advertising staff of
London “Daily Mail,” Farnsworth adver-
tised, in a small way, the presence of the
R.A.N. in Jap-held waters in the south-
west Pacific, Reserve-officer in corvette
Deloraine. He lately retired from a
record term as president of the associa-
tion which has made the award.
To fill the Chair of Conservative
Dentistry at Otago Dental School (N.Z.),
John le Bailly Warren, senior lecturer in
the subject at Melbourne University. The
fang-farrier will be back on old ground
—he having taken his degrees at Otago,
and served there in the dental depart-
ment before leaving to look after Maori-
land molars, captain with the Ist N.Z,
mobile dental-section overseas in the late
scrap.
“Becks”; J. E. Macdonnell (dealt with
here by Dubois) joined The Bulletin in
1948, after 14 years in the R.A.N. Born
at Mackay (n.-Q.) 34 years ago, he
joined the Navy as ordinary seaman,
second-class, in 1934, gained a commis-
sion 10 years later, and in between served
in every type of vessel in the R.A.N. His
proudest day was when he stroked the
seamen’s whaler crew to victory the year
cruiser Australia won the Mediterranean
Fleet regatta from 90 British ships; his
luckiest —though he didn’t think so at the
time —was when he was sent ashore at
Flinders from cruiser Canberra to have
his tonsils ripped out. Canberra, minus
Macdonnell, went off to her doom in
Savo Straits: under his familiar nib-
name, “Macnell,” he subsequently told
her story in The Bulletin, At Darwin in
sloop Warrego at the time of the town’s
first air-raid, he was next transferred to
corvettes operating in East Indies waters
SAILOR-AUTHOR
and, later, in destroyer Nepal, had a
front-row view of the bombardment of
Sabang (Sumatra) by Admiral Somer-
ville’s Eastern Battle Fleet. At the war’s
end he was in cruiser Hobart. “Macnell’s”
writing career began in 1942, and he had
freelance work printed in England, South
Africa and India as well as in this
country. His first book. Fleet Destroyer,
was published in Melbourne in 1945.
Valiant Occasions, built largely with his
Bulletin narrations of naval actions of
World War 11, has just been published by
Constable and Co., London.
Albert Aucher (here sighted by Prior)
is chairman of directors of a Sydney firm
he himself founded in 1928. It imports,
exports and makes articles ranging from
cork to electrical appliances. It deals also
in trochus-shell; “Aucher-grading” is as
well-known in shell circles as “A 1 at
Lloyd’s” is in shipping. Speaking of
shipping—Aucher is berthed in an office
with Darling Harbor handy to starb’d, a
telescope in one drawer, a model of a
close-stowing anchor as paperweight, and
pictures of windjammers all around. The
furnishings stem from Aucher’s having
ANCIENT MARINER
first reefed a sail in 1899, and his being
entitled to preface his name with captain.
President of the Wholesale Importers’
Association of N.S.W., and treasurer of
the Australian Exporters’ Federation,
he sinks his business interests on one salt-
laden, chanty-filled night of this month
each year—presiding at the reunion
of the 400 members of the League of
Ancient Mariners.
A farm-lad who worked as a telegraph-
messenger in Melbourne while educating
himself to matriculation standard; then
as a lettersorter in between studying
medicine at Melbourne University, now
finds himself Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine at Sydney University. Pro-
fessor Edward Ford’s early gumption is
a measure of the driving competence
which has made him a world authority on
tropical diseases. A collector of paint-
ings and old books (particularly ancient
medical works, for which Norman
Lindsay drew die bookplate), the prof,
is also a collector of letters written, by
famous people—he has one written by
Nelson to Emma Hamilton’s husband,
and another penned by Dickens accept-
ing the presidency of the London News-
boys’ Society. As well, a robust talker,
War II colonel in the Middle East, New
Guinea and Burma, a good cook, an
authority on Australian light wines.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, Gordon Cunningham, whom
Diggers of Greenslopes Repatriation Hospital
will remember as the indefatigable Red Cross
representative there. Of slight physique, his
heart strained, he had been through Greece and
Crete, and carried his service to soldiers through
the northern islands, hjs own illness of no
moment before the wounds of Diggers. Fight-
ing to the last, he struggled with the Reaper
for a week. His last words to his wife
“I can’t fight any more, darling. I am tired. ’
They don’t come much pluckier than little
Cunningham.
In Sydney, C. A. Shepherd of the Shepherd
Press. He published books of Norman Lindsay s
and Gruner’s oil-paintings, and owned a fine
collection of works by these and other artists,
including Streeton and Lance Solomon.
In London, Alan John Bott, publisher and
author; founder of the London Book Society. A
fighter-pilot in the famed 60 Squadron, R.A.F.,
in War I, Bott had his squadron experiences
published in England and the U.S. They were
so successful that the Air Ministry, all out for
publicity for the newly-formed R.A.F., asked
him to write a similar book on Palestine. But,
in combat with four German planes, Bott was
shot down. He ended up in the same p.-0.-w.
camp with Tommy White, and with him escaped.
White, now High Commissioner in London,
delivered the memorial address at St. Martin-
in-the-Field.
At Mosman (N-S.W.), Mary Cross, mother
of poetess Zora Cross. She was a granddaughter
of Queensland pioneer Daniel Skyring (who
grew the State’s first pineapples), and daughter
of Zackariah Skyring (discoverer of the first
Queensland gold at Nambour). A son, Sergeant
V. Cross, M.M., gets a mention in C. E. W.
Bean’s war-history for pulling off a stunt at
Laringcourt in War I.
In Albury, at 86, William James Wye, trooper
in the Middle East in War I, prospector in
Victoria, discoverer of several goldmines and
bush-balladist. Two books of verse published
were Souvenirs Qf Sunny South and Bush
Minstrelsy.
At 79, in Perth, Harry Willoughby Maim,
who was chief-inspector in charge of the
Westralian C. 1.8. when he decided, in 1920, to
go in for making laws instead of upholding
them. For over 12 years he represented Perth
in the Assembly; one of his remembered pa-
formances in Parliament was his speech when
moving a private member’s bill for the abolition
of capital punishment. The bill was defeated
but its introduction by a former C. 1.8. chiet
caused much comment at the time.


. P 7
.'"r »
% 0° jpt *7 //
Vmr?
'£>«r ?'
'&***?*
P/Wt P
fg
'(toft?'
OUT!


ABORIGINALITIES
“Pip Tok”: Four days before the
atomic explosion at the Monte Bello
Islands a memorial to a wildflower was
unveiled in the Perth Town Hall. Prob-
ably the only memorial of its kind in Aus-
tralia, it forms an accidental link with
the explosion. The memorial is a raised
mosaic tablet in color, symbolic of the
red and blue leschenaultia, one of West-
ralia’s most beautiful wildflowers, named
after Leschenault, the botanist who was
one of the scientists sailing with Nicholas
Baudin when the Monte Bellos were
visited and named in 1801. The tablet
is the work of a new arrival from Poland,
one W. B. Szybek. Its cost was defrayed
by a bequest of the late F. I. Bray to
the Westralian Historical Society. Bray,
who made a lifetime study of native flora,
had a long and honorable career in the
State’s public service, commencing as
office-boy to John Forrest and ending as
Commissioner for Native Affairs.
* Hi * *
“Highett”: Heard on a party-line:
“Dot, I’m sending out some meat which
1 don’t like the look of. Don’t you eat
it and don’t give it to hubby. It might
do for the men, though if they won’t
eat it you can give it to the chooks.”
* * * ♦
“Long Bob”: The peregrine falcon was
hungry, and as my axe disturbed a bat
from his dismal quarters in a hollow
myall stump he dived —and missed. The
ensuing dogfight was ludicrous to watch ;
the unfortunate falcon had no chance.
The bat was as often above and behind
as he was below and in front —he looped,
zoomed, rolled and sideslipped, and
combat was broken off at around 600 ft.
when a falcon returned to his dead belah,
resolved no doubt to spring on some-
thing next time which had no radar
equipment.
* * * *
“Ceg”: “Old-timer’s” cod-fishing Bush
Brother (B. 8/10/’52) must have been
cast in the same mould as the one who
turned up to hold service at a small
station I was on. First thing he
did was drag three black ducks out of
the boot of the ancient utility, suggesting
that they might go very well for tea;
they did. Then he got down to business
in the dining-room, when we got the
bombshell of the evening—the native
nursegirl wanted to be christened. Under
the rather odd names of Lily May she
was duly admitted to the fold, and, though
completely free for once of sin, blotted
her copybook properly by later being
found sharing the couch of the mailman
who had halted there for the night.
Pondering later upon the speed with which
she fell from grace, I could account for
the baptism’s lack of lasting efficacy
by only one thing—the Brother himself
SiD
“This is a stick-up !”
was not in a state of grace at the time
it was performed. Those ducks were
shot in a close season,
* * * *
“Slim”: At Lake Koolymilka (S.A.)
they told Ben that his catwalk over the
grading-sieves was too close to the
machinery. Ben assured them that he
would continue to use that catwalk if it
were the last thing he did. It almost was.
In an accidental brush with the stone-
crusher he was picked clean of everything
except shoes and socks and then ejected.
During two hospital weeks Ben generated
sufficient spirit to maintain that his cat-
walk was not to blame. “Loose clothing
causes accidents,” he explained. “It gets
snapped up by the machinery.”
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Shortage of garlic and a
sudden boom in its price has caused a
minor crisis in our little country town-
ship, The local store and greengrocer
have never stocked the stuff, but one old
lady with a large patch of the pungent
weed could always be depended upon for
a generous supply in the pickle-making
“You haven't quite got the hang of that telescopic
umbrella,”
season. All her fellow-housewives knew
it could be had for the asking, and nobody
ever troubled to plant even one bulb of
the surplus. Recently the possessor of
the garlic-patch announced that, from
now on, she would have no garlic to hand
out either for love or money. She plans
to build up her stock by intensive culti-
vation of every tiny clove. She has
worked it out that by 1957 she should
have grown a ton of the stuff, and present
market quotation is £3OO per ton.
* * * *
“Mudbank”: “Llib’s” explanation of
the rabbit-chasing-dingo phenomenon
(B. 15/10/’52), while ingenious, hardly
does justice to the intelligence Brer’s sup-
posed to have. If, as “Llib” states, the
rabbit I saw was being chased by a dingo
which had not yet come into sight, would
that rabbit deliberately run to within Bft.
of another dingo? Using his argument,
the rabbit, which, as I said, was gaining
on the dingo, would eventually draw level
with him, thus making death a certainty,
and I haven’t heard that rabbits have
suicidal tendencies. And might I ask
what gives “Llib” the impression that
Murchison or any other kind of dingoes
hunt in pairs?
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”: Big Curly, the trawler-
skipper, lay aboard his vessel at her
moorings one blazing Sabbath morn,
bitterly regretting his Saturday optimism
regarding the quantity of beer he could
take aboard. The trawler rocked gently
in the wash of the ferry. Curly’s head
rocked sickeningly in response. When
he opened his aching eyes flickering
lights reflected from the wavelets through
the open port danced upon the deck-
head and plunged like bayonets into his
eyeballs. He was even aware —painfully
aware —of the smell
of the bilge, the
aroma of fish and
occasional whiffs of
diesel-oil from the
engine-room, scents
he normally regarded
as frankincense and
myrrh. It was, even
to one of Curly’s
vast experience, a
hangover of colossal
proportions. From
the peanut - vendor
near the punt-landing
came loud, incessant
yells of “Peanuts!
Fresh roasted pea-
nuts!” The cries
stabbed at Curly’s
ears like red-hot sail-
needles, going on
and on until he
could bear no more.
Somehow he
scrambled up the
companion and
steadied himself by a
shroud. Sixteen
stone and 6ft. high,
he glared at the pea-
nut-vendor. “You!”
he yelled. “Y o u
with the peanuts! ”
Trade came to a
halt. Salesman and
customers stared at
the vast figure sway-
ing on the deck. “If
you don’t stop that
damn yelling I’ll come ashore and —and
—and—l’ll buy all your blasted peanuts!”
Leaving that horrible threat hanging in
the summer air he plunged down the
ladder and back into his bunk. Terrible
fellows when roused, these trawlermen.
* * * *
“Bobbie Jay”: Until the arrival of her
first-born the missus kept only one lubra,
who did the weekly wash. With the
arrival of the “white-feller baby” came
Rosie as general help, and inevitably
friction arose between the two house-
girls: the laundress, a quiet, dignified
widow with no time for men ; the help,
plump, 40 and de facto to Albert, with
whom she had spent 17 far-from-peaceful
years after leaving her husband. One
morning Rosie made a tardy appearance
and with a wide grin announced that if
missus would let her go she would be
returning with her husband to her “own
country”—“Me true ’usband, Missis.”
An astounded missus could only shake
her head, then from the laundry a quiet
voice said “You’d ’ardly think it’d be
worth it after all these years, would y’.
Missis?”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”; There must have been
something wrong with those early
Angora goats if the Port Lincoln climate
didn’t suit them (B. 17/9/’52). At Cape
Wollamai, Westernport (Vic,), the late
Jack Cleeland used to shear goats of this
breed for many years. I have often seen
the white, sure-footed kids grazing in all
weathers on the ocean cliff-sides. Today
a family named Barton runs a stud flock
of them in the sand-dune country in from
Meetung, between the Gippsland Lakes
and the Tasman Sea, and the longwools
have been there for more than half
a century. Also, in the 1920’s we called
at sandy Forsyth Island off Shark Bay
(W.A.), to find shearers barbering the
mohair off these mammals with blades.
And what a job! The animals would
bleat and kick during the whole opera-
tion. I could name other islands about
there and also around at the Whitsunday
Group, inside the Barrier Reef, where the
white-bearded bleaters released years ago
to provide food for castaway sailors
thrive more or less wild. The one place I
know where they won’t do is the rugged,
wet, inhospitable west coast of Tas-
mania—the roughest coastline in the
Commonwealth..
* * * #
“Kros”: May I try to be of some
further help to “Fairf” (B. 8/10/’52)?
Can’t say whether budgies have a sense
of smell or not, though his little experi-
ment with his birds seems to prove it.
Birds haven’t as strong a sense of smell
as most animals have —a horse, for in-
stance, can scent newly-cut lucerne a mile
off; even fish, perhaps surprisingly, have
a very keen sniffing-sense. Only a few
birds have been discovered to have a
sense of smell. It is by sight, not
smell, for instance, that vultures gather
at a carcass. Some birds themselves have
an odor, but it doesn’t seem to play any
part in the recognition of individual birds
by others of the species. As for his
birds’ preference for a wooden trough
rather than a terra-cotta dish, that is
probably due to the cold and chilliness
of the dish.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We had a fencing con-
tract not far out of Euchapivy, started
on. the Tuesday, had to stop on the
Saturday because rain fell down all day,
and were hopping into it on the Sunday
when the farmer appeared and announced
firmly that he was strictly opposed to
work on the Sabbath. “Well, we don’t
want t’ hurt y’r feelings,” Mat said, “but
it was too wet yesterday an’ ” “The
rain is an act of God,” the farmer said.
“And in providing that the Sabbath be
kept holy He didn’t mean we could use
it to make up lost time. It would worry
me gravely to think of you working
today.” Mat gave me a look, leaned the
bar against a post, stacked our shovels
and rammers beside it. “All right,” he
said, civilly. The farmer was so moved
he grabbed Mat’s hand and shook it
fervently. Back at our camp we lay on
our backs and looked at the sky. “Look,”
I growled. “It’ll take seven weeks loafin’
on Sundees ; six if we work ’em.” “Take
a tumble t’ y’rself,” Mat said. “The
man didn’t tell us, he asks us.” I moaned
some more. Mat stood up, came to me,
and jumped heavily on my toes. I let
out a roar. “There y’ are,” he said. “Y
scream when somebody jumps on your
toes, but y’ don’t mind jumpin’ on some-
one else’s.” “Toes?” I yelped. “Just
the same as feelin’s,” he grinned, and lay
down again*
CAPTAIN DELL OF THE FANCY
(From “Tamaki-makau-rau,” a long poem on the
history of Auckland. The Fancy, Captain Dell master,
was the first ship to trade with Maoris, 1794.)
Scholar, spare a second thought
Before the greenmould records close
For a ship and all who sailed her, gone
Where seaweed or landweed blows;
My log can’t sing of waters won
By the heart’s wheel and a compass-rose,
Said Captain Dell of the Fancy.
The world’s last port was Sydney Cove
Crying for ships and wares,
But we didn’t bring down dolls’ eyes,
Peppercorns or tihder flares,
We came down from India
Because the Navy needed spars.
And the world’s last port was Hell, sir,
For convict and corporal,
Yet many times they’d be telling us how
In the oblivion of island and whale
Worse hells we’d find and our bones be picked
By the* hog-toothed cannibal,
Said Captain Dell of the Fancy.
But the Navy needed clean tall trees
And the forests where they throve
Cook had seen in those savage lands,
So I risked a secret move
And on a blue September morning
Made sail from Sydney Cove.
It was true on the brown man’s coast, sir,
Where we moored in the River Thames,
That customs dear to him were such
As Holy Writ condemns.
But three months cutting spars we learnt
How liking from laughter stems,
Said Captain Dell of the Fancy.
Though the world’s last port has shifted
Some days beyond the sky,
Once we lived in the greenleaf land
Where time sang swiftly by
Till in the arms of a young summer
We saw the old year die.
So write us down in history
As the first to traffic there,
That the natives spoke us friendly
And traded with us fair —
But nevermore will hold a spikenail
Dearer than a spar!
Said Captain Dell of the Fancy.
N.Z,
GLORIA RAWLINSON.


“It cant be longer coming home; it only seems longer."
“The Boorie”: Smoke-oh, and the new
bloke was holding the floor. The coming
wet, he explained, had brought him into
Darwin, away from his mining interests,
and he had taken this job, greasing trucks,
merely for the benefit derived from a
change of occupation. Uranium? He
could take you to a deposit bigger than
Rum Jungle and Edith River combined.
Tin? Enough for half the world’s needs
and all the punters at the Melbourne
Cup. Silver-lead? B.H.P. had been
chasing him for months. He could write
his own ticket. The boys listened in stony
silence. At last Bernie could stand no
more. He grunted, licked his lips and
eyed the skinny little skite coldly.
“Yeah?” he drawled. “And who do y’
think you’re talkin’ to —the Dean of
Canterbury?”
* * * *
“Piper”: I’ve criticised for the last
time a certain confirmed hoarder of
rubbish which “may come in useful.”
For years his officer’s dress-sword hung
rustily among the broken umbrellas in
the hall-cupboard. It was too heavy to
carry in kids’ games; we tried pretend-
ing the rust-marks were bloodstains, but
no one was ever convinced. Until last
week it would have been hard to imagine
a more useless relic. Then a black snake
wriggled over the veranda. The collec-
tion of ancient hockey-sticks, lengths of
pipe and so forth which are part of our
summer outdoor furniture couldn’t be
found. The original owner, frantically
looking for a weapon, remembered the
sword. He insisted on extracting it, not
without difficulty, from the mildewed
scabbard and, after 38 years, triumphantly
blooded it in the cold gore of Joe Blake.
♦ * # *
“A.L.D.”: “Ek Dum’s” statement that
“the idea of Asiatic armies of large
strength living off the land in the
Northern Territory and the Gulf Country
would make a possum laugh” (B.
10/9/’52) would have been endorsed by
Albert Dorrington. Half-a-century ago,
in “Chambers’s Journal,” Dorrington
pointed out that although Asiatic beche-
de-mer collectors and other seafarers had
long been roaming along the coasts of
Northern Australia and that a consider-
“And the missus swallowed my story hook , line
and sinker."
able number of Chinese prospectors had
also wandered about the region none had
managed to established settlements. “The
Northern Territory is the graveyard of
innumerable Asiatics,” he remarked. He
gave one apparent example within the
range of his own experience. In 1896 he
came upon traces of a big band of
Chinese prospectors. Blacks told him the
Chinese had gone south only a day or
two previously.
There were hundreds of naked footprints,
which followed the sun-blighted depression
for several miles to a place where water
was still obtainable. Three weeks later I
came upon their campfires in the McKinley
Ranges. They were evidently pressing on
towards the Diamantina Valley in the hope
of finding gold. No one knows what
became of them afterwards. In the same
year I wrote the Queensland authorities in
reference to the matter, But received no
reply.
* * * *
“A.E.S.”; Tasmanian oak (B. 1/10/’52)
can be one of three species of eucalypt
or a mixture of them: Eucalyptus
gigantea (gum-top stringybark in. Tassie ;
red mountain-ash in Vic.); Eucalyptus
obliqua (stringybark or brown-top stringy
in Tassie ; messmate in Vic.); and Euca-
lyptus regnans (swamp-gum in Tassie;
mountain-ash in Vic.). Furniture is not
their only use: obliqua is durable in the
ground and so is used for piles, tele-
graph-poles and bridges; gigantea and
regnans are both first-class bending timber
useful for coach-work and cooperage;
they are all used for general building con-
struction ; and regnans is fairly eaten up
by the big newsprint mills at Boyer.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Little Curl found a top-
knot pigeon with an injured wing, brought
it home, put it in a cage and began to
nurse it back to health. On the second
night most of the station cats and half
the bush cats within a mile, convinced
that the bird was being fattened for them,
gathered on the hut veranda and attacked
the cage and each other. The hands
cursed Little Curl and he was forced to
rise thrice during the night and blast
holes, in the darkness with his .410,
Next day he took the cage and put it
up on the windmill tower, which no cat
could climb. Bu t
sundry hawks, a
jackass or two and
one butcher-bird be-
came deeply in-
terested in that cage,
and Curl spent the
/ day fretting about
his patient He com-
promised by putting
the cage on the
tower at night and
shutting it in the hut
by day. After four
days the pigeon was
tested inside the hut
and was able to fly.
Instead of opening
the door and letting
it find the open, Curl
tried to capture it
again. It shot like
an arrow for the
window and broke its
neck against the
pane. “I only wanted
to feel it in my hands
again,” moaned Curl,
and people allege
that bushmen aren’t
sentimental.
THE ROPER’S SINGING
Lilies blue amidst green shadows where the
wattle-trees are blooming
By the banks of yellow rushes where the finches
dart and play
Make a floating sapphire pathway for the Roper
waters coming
To swirl beside my campfire at the breaking
of the day.
From Mataranka’s, Nedjik spring and Kuran’s
swirling stream
The waters run where row by row the emerald-
green pandanus grow;
And shining bright or flecked with blue the
eddies whirl and gleam
Or pause to catch like tall white ghosts the
leichhardts as they flow.
And the rapids of Narmurangan where water-
lilies sway
Tell a tale of love and beauty to hills red
beneath the sun,
And the native children shouting as beside the
reeds they play
See Murrawallie’s living waters glitter silver as
they run.
And tales of this old country are the songs I
hear them singing;
How the Mung’ri—bulrush people—poled their
rafts of bark and vine,
Crouching low amidst the bulrush when they
heard the hide thongs ringing
As the Urapunji horse-teams creaked towards
the O.T. line.
Then the Never-Never people came with drays
and wagons creaking
Toiling through the distance by the Roper
waters gleaming
As they built up yard and homestead, ever
moving out and seeking.
Sleeping ever in the bushlands, they now rest
within its “Dreaming”—
By the waters of Queungun where the tea-tree
blooms are drifting,
By the Elsey Station homestead on the dull
brown banks nearby,
By the reeds of Narramungun where the lotus
stems are lifting
Rose-pink buds above the surface to' a sunlit
northern sky.
Oh! the songs the Roper’s singing are the great
Australian story,
A thousand schemes, a myriad dreams, with
hopes and doubts and fears;
Of floods and droughts and hunger, of sunlit
death and glory,
Of men and women toiling down the distant
outback years.
Now over tribal trading-tracks the motor-trucks
are groaning,
The wireless strains at evening drown the low
corroboree;
And the silvery mail-plane’s engine beats a
cadence in its droning—
Keeping rhythm with the Roper tumbling on
' towards the sea.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.
OLD MAN SPEAKS
Away in the dream-time Mack man roam
All about tribal ground, makem home.
Catchem plenty fish alonga creek;
Spear alonga bush, him tucker seek.
Away in the dream-time, good time then:
Down by the billabong tribal men
Makem corroboree, dance and shout,
Stamp feet, wavem hands, throw spear about.
The Mack man sad man; white man come,
Chase away the black man; killem some.
Takera tribal ground and billabong:
Black man lost man; no more he belong.
VICTORIA.
Z. V. WEBB.
BOX 3, LOVEBIRD FLATS
He was a handsome grey-blue and
we’d christened him “Lord Melbourne”
because of his aristocratic appearance;
but “Lady Melbourne” was just an ordi-
nary-looking woman.
They seemed to get on all right to-
gether, though, and he’d often leave the
perch and pop home to her box to see
how his wife was getting on with bring-
ing their future children into the world.
Then an exquisite-looking all-yellow
girl, who’d run away from home, arrived
outside the cage and I caught her and
put her in the
cage with the
others a
dozen or so of
them. “Blondie,”
as we called her,
had an elegant,
long, smoothly-
shaped, stream-
lined figure, like
a French manne-
quin’s, was young,
and hadn’t long
been in the cage
before I saw her
swinging merrily
and captivatingly
from the perch
by one shapely
leg and looking
like a dazzling
circus star.
Lady Me 1-
bourne did not
like her from
the start. Lord Melbourne was distinctly,
though discreetly, interested; but life
went on just the same in Lovebird Flats,
while the attractive Blondie looped the
loop from off the perch and indulged in
gay and frivolous long flights round and
round the cage for the sheer joy of it.
Lord Melbourne, male like, did no
more than give Blondie an appreciative
look as she waltzed up and down the
perch and brushed his coat almost as she
flew beautifully past him.
One day, however, they both got talk-
ing together on the perch, and, what with
the twinkle in Lord Melbourne’s eye and
Blondie being unattached like, she tilted
her head at him in a more than flirtatious
manner and he, overcome, was just about
to stroke her pretty head when his wife
happened to look out the door.
She saw what was going on, and, in
a flash, hurled herself out of her box
and at Blondie.
But Blondie wasn’t there to meet her,
and Lady Melbourne crashed into the
netting of the cage and fell to the bottom,
got up, pursued Blondie until she her-
self became puffed and beaten (being out
of form because of her mothering
duties), and, now all upset, sat down be-
side her husband and looked as if she
might have been telling him what a
rotter he was, flirting with “that creature”
while she was cooped up inside bringing
a family into the world for him; after
which she took a look round to see
where the flighty blonde was, and noticing
that “that strumpet” was down below
having afternoon-tea with herself as if
nothing had happened, if you please, re-
turned to her box again.
Then Lord Melbourne did exactly what
many a man before him has done in
such circumstances; but, of course, in-
stead of giving her a new dress or a new
and expensive hat, went to the seed-tin,
filled his crop with seed (the very best,
of course), flew up top, poked his head
in the door, called softly to his wife, and
when she came to the door fed her until
she couldn’t eat another seed.
This done, he gently stroked her head,
she gave him a look saying she would
forgive him, and, with her appeased and
gone back into her box to go on with
her mothering, and completely out of
sight, everything was now ripe, and con-
venient, for the base deceiver to again
visit Blondie, which he did and —well,
the cad!.
Now, from then on, he became care-
less and more open in his attentions to
her and even got to patting his mistress’s
head in front of his wife. So it came
about that Lady Melbourne openly
fought her husband’s mistress, his mistress
fought back and on several occasions
even invaded Lady Melbourne’s own
private quarters.
For several days this unseemly state
of affairs went on. Then, one early
morning, I found Lady Melbourne dead
in the corner of the cage with a wound
on the back of her head, and saw that
Blondie had already taken up residence
in the late Lady Melbourne’s box, where
Lord Melbourne was chatting to her
while she rearranged the furniture.
We never knew who committed the
murder, whether she was killed by one
of the other tenants, by Blondie, or
whether the aristocratic-looking Lord
had committed the crime so that he
could set up house with his beautiful
blonde —the new Lady Melbourne, Box \
Lovebird Flats.
HAVKO.


m
w
tv'
tm
HOSPITAL ,
¥
HJU strength
, (~«t tr L at%:
mm PTv.it
P5O/54
Business Rollery Etc.
Metropolitan Cement
Bad news is reputed to travel
fast. But it took shareholders in
Metropolitan Portland Cement
over nine months to get the bad
news that the co.’s latest accounts
(dated December 31, 1951) con-
veyed to them. This is only one
of the unusual aspects of this
unusual enterprise.
To begin at the beginning.
The co. was formed under
Federal “Labor” - Government
patronage (and with an N.S.W.
“Labor” member on its board)
towards the end of 1948 with
the aid of dollar allocations for
the purchase of second-hand
plant in the United States. The
co. aimed to begin production
before the end of 1949 ; actually
production was not started (with
one kiln) until July, 1951. The
second kiln did not begin operat-
ing fully until July, 1952.
Originally it was intended to
bring all the raw materials to
the Sydney metropolitan area for
processing, this because a freight-
rate anomaly made it apparently
more economical to do so. But
plans went astray. The works
were finally set up at Maldon,
near Picton, at a cost enormously
jn excess of estimates. Many
problems, including those relat-
ing to labor and weather, inter-
fered with the construction
schedule, which was over-
optimistic to begin with.
Limestone is brought from
Marulan, coal from Berrima.
The limestone is good, but the
haulage costly. And though the
co.’s prospectus visualised a
revolution in cement-manufac-
turing costs because of the novel
transport ideas employed, its
costs appear to be the highest
in the trade ; at any rate, earlier
this year it was ascertained that
Metropolitan was being favored
by the N. S. Wales “Labor”
Government to the extent that
it was being allowed to charge
50 p.c. more for bulk cement
than other manufacturers in the
State.
Instead of its difficulties caus-
ing the co, to draw in its horns,
with Rural Bank assistance
it has gone deeper and deeper
into commitments. It was
originally hoped to get going on
the £BOO,OOO of capital offered
to the public. But at the end of
1951 outlay on the original
works was £2,452,284, and there
was new Norwegian plant, not
yet erected, stored at the works,
and valued at £319,870.
At the end of 1949 the co.
owed the Government-owned
N. S. Wales Rural Bank
£487,821. In December, 1950,
the figure was £1,302,745. By
the end of last year the amount
had leapt to £2,413,124. At that
point the N. S, Wales Govern-
ment had more than twice the
financial interest in the concern
that shareholders themselves
had. In short, the Rural Bank
is up to its neck in cement.
Where the money has gone
and come from over the past
three years is shown in this
table:
1919. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £
Paid capital 800,000 800,000 1,002,319
■ Debentures 100,000 100,000
Overdraft .. 487,831 1,302,745 2,413,134
Creditors . . 39,206 76,183 105,089
Freeholds . . 18,160 19,679 153,323
Works,'
quarries and
collieries . .1,303,894 3,116,395 3,787,711
Shares in
other cos. 36,329 26,439 339,248
Stocks and
stores .. 39,880 115,637
Debtors . . 16,958, 34,034 51,968
Cash, etc. ... 33,051 2,975 8,681
Intangibles 39,635 39,636 373,925
The co.’s product is satisfactory,
but the cost is not. How long
it can hope to obtain a 50 p.c.
premium over other cement
during present more competitive
conditions remains to be seen.
Since July of this year—half-
way through the present finan-
cial term —“the output of cement
per week has been steadily in-
creasing, and production has
been continuous and on a profit-
able basis.” Further increases
in output and reductions in
costs are hoped for. No tonnage
S*iT> Tsi-Ads
"I knew something Would happen when I transferred to
four-engine kites.”
figures in relation to cement
production are given.
Up to December 31, 1951,
the co. had incurred a deficit of
£233,850, including testing and
running-in charges. This has
been transferred to establishment
account, making total intangibles
£273,925.
Plant-installation at the lime-
stone quarry and the colliery are
. now reported to be adequate to
supply raw materials in excess
of requirements of the present
two-kiln cement plant. The Nor-
wegian plant, when erected, is
hoped to increase total capa-
city from 150,000 tons to about
350,000 tons of cement a year.
Including overdraft and deben-
tures, the co. was virtually
capitalised at £3,500,000 at last
balance-day. The figure is likely
to increase again before the new
plant is ready for cement-pro-
duction. A depreciation charge
of 5 p.c. p.a. on the present
works expenditure would call for
nearly £125,000 a year, and 5
p.c. on the overdraft and deben-
tures would require £125,000 a
year in interest. What actual
depreciation allowances should
be, and what rate of interest the
co. is paying the Rural Bank,
The Bulletin doesn’t know.
But obviously profits will be
subject to heavy charges before
shareholders get a look-in.
With the two kilns at present
operating the capitalisation of
Metropolitan’s plant per ton of
capacity is out of all proportion
to the capitalisation of others in
the business. The co. says:
Although the erection of the plant
and the development of the quarry
and colliery has exceeded original
estimates as to the time and cost,
owing to the very difficult con-
ditions of the last few years, your
directors are advised that replace-
ment values would be substantially
higher than our costs, and taking
a long-range view feel that when
the Norwegian plant has been in-
stalled the total capital investment
will not be disproportionate to the
potential capacity of the plant.
How the co. is going to wriggle
out of its financial difficulty is
a question bound to give share-
holders much concern. With its
scrip at about Bs. 6d. in the
market there are obvious prob-
lems in the way of raising new
capital. There is still a shortage
of cement in most parts of
Australia, and for the time
being the co. is able to sell its
product at a premium in Vic-
toria and Queensland, as well as
N. S. Wales. Shareholders’ chief
hopes of getting a dividend paid
out of the co.’s own money
rest on demand for cement re-
maining in excess of supply for
many years to come.
Woolcott Forbes Again
Before the Judge in Bank-
ruptcy in Sydney last week John
Woolcott Forbes (otherwise
Louis Brandi) and others gave
evidence of their associations
with Irving Investments Pty.,
Ltd., Capital Investments Cor-
poration, Ltd., Syndicate Mining
Options, Ltd., Mt. Eba Gold
Mines, Ltd., Australian and In-
ternational Consolidated Finance
Co. Pty., Ltd., Spring Valley Tin
Mines, Amalgamated Tin, Ltd.,
the Australian Land and Agency
Co, Pty., Ltd., and R.U.R.
(Aust.), Ltd.
Woolcott Forbes’s affairs are
at present subject to an examina-
tion in bankruptcy, and his wife’s
affairs have also been inquired
into. Woolcott Forbes’s estate
was sequestrated on April 16,
1950, with unsecured liabilities
of £56,383 and assets valued at
£2850.
It was contended by Barwick,
Q. that the operations of
Syndicate Mining Options,
Capital Investments Corporation
and Irving Investments Pty. were
directed solely by the bankrupt,
and that some dealings in the
shares of these and other com-
panies were in the names of
nominees. The Official Receiver
wanted access to the books to
see what happened to the money
in dealings with fictitious names.
Mr. Barwick said the original
capital was that of the bank-
rupt. Cheques had been drawn
by these companies, and vast
sums had been taken out in cash.
“It looks as though £17,000 to
£20,000 was drawn in one
month.”
Woolcott Forbes denied that
he had put his own capital into
the various concerns under fic-
titious names,
F. T. Smythe, chartered
accountant and auditor, said he
did not know what had hap-
pened to- the cash-book of Irving
Investments.
William Atkinson, former
clerk to G. D. Wharton, a
member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, said he had received
instructions from Forbes to buy
shares, but not on Forbes’s
behalf. He had held shares
in Amalgamated Tin as a
nominee at the request of Eric
McConnell, a close associate of
Forbes. He had increased the
mortgage on his home so that he
could lend Mrs. Woolcott Forbes
£2OOO to speculate with.
William James Hatch, a
chemist, who became a director
of Capital Investments (and
subsequently of R.U.R.) at
Forbes’s request, admitted that
Capital Investments sold a large
number, of R.U.R. shares
between October, 1950, and
November, 1951, at prices in
excess of what was paid for
them. The market “was worked
up”—Forbes, as manager, “was
trying to do his best.” Mrs.
Forbes had been sold 10,000
R. shares at 6s. when others
were paying £1 each for them.
It looked like “a very neat way
of making a present of 10,000
times 145.” It also looked as
though Capital Investments had
then bought the shares back at
30s. a share, making Mrs.
Forbes another present of 10,000
times 10s. Hatch agreed that it
was Forbes’s company as far as
he was concerned.
The examination is still in
progress.
Industry and Savings
The Bulletin has for several
years emphasised the fact that
in Australia there is not enough
production, not enough effici-
ency, not enough profit, not
enough incentive, not enough
savings, not enough investment,
and that there are too many
non-producers being carried on
the backs of those who do
deliver the goods.
From the ranks of industry
itself comes strong support for
these contentions. Mr. R. B.
Davies, speaking at the annual
meeting of R. B. Davies Indus-
tries, Ltd., in Sydney:
Individually, we seem able to com-
prehend that our present conduct
may, and indeed must, have a vital
effect upon our future. All education
is based on the theory that we must
attempt to fit ourselves for our future
occupations; and the man who adopts
the motto of “Eat, drink and be
merry, for tomorrow we die” is
accounted a fool by all thinking per-
sons for his disregard of the future.
Yet, under our present system ot
party politics, we entirely neglect our
national future. The party which
introduced a forty-hour week at a
time when production was essential
to Australian advancement gained the
approval of those who wanted to do
as little work as possible, or who
wanted to waste time and make over-
time, but did not concern itself with
the slowing-up of production or the
tremendous addition to industrial
costs or the introduction of an ex-
tremely dangerous inflationary system.
Similarly, the Federal Treasurer
who endeavors to balance a Budget
providing for higher social services,
free medicine and the like, by imposing
-heavy and ever heavier taxation, for-
gets that he is jeopardising the future
by abolishing the savings for industry
of the medium- and high-income
groups and making it impossible for
them to provide capital for industry.
As has been pointed out by Mr.
S. P. Chambers, financial director of
Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd., in
Sources of Capital for Industry, “The
ultimate source of all capital is
savings; and saving means consum-
ing less than producing. For all
capital in existence, some people,
somewhere, must have produced more
real wealth than they consumed; or,
to be more exact, the value of what
they have consumed must have been
less than the value of what they
produced.
“The steady growth of capital is,
therefore, necessary if standards of
living are to be raised, and savings
are the basis of capital-formation.
“In Britain much of the manufac-
turing industry was built up in the
19th century by family businesses
based upon private saving, and the
really enterprising individuals backed
their progressive ideas with their own
money. Sometimes they were backed
by friends or relatives. The pro-
gressive family business in Britain has
now disappeared because of taxation,
including death duties....”
I suggest that these illuminating
remarks are equally applicable to
Australian industry.
The Sharemarket
The spurt in share prices that
followed the announcement of
credit-control relaxation petered
out last week. There was really
very little in the credit move it-
self to warrant any pronounced
upward movement in investment
prices. It is unlikely that the
trading banks as a whole will be
in a position yet to make credit
generally freer.
While there has been little
change in conditions underlying
sharemarket tone, the present
undoubtedly represents a good
time for selective buying of
sound industrials and similar
stocks. While Bank of N. S.
Wales shares, showing net tan-
gible assets of £36 2s. 3d. per
£2O share, can be bought for £37
it is clear that terms for buyers
are very favorable now, whatever
future market levels may be. To
those with money awaiting
investment a close study of the
Stock Exchange lists should io
the long run be well rewarded,
even though economic conditions
generally are likely to be difficult
until the 44-hour week is restored
or other means to increased pro-
duction and lower costs become
operative.


established 18GS
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
,AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
JACKSON A
man y
BRISBANE
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagb
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
M. 0. ALDEE, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
A*N*Z
* *
A Symbol you will often see
All A.N.Z. Bank buildings and publica-
tions display this symbol, which now
identifies Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited—one of the most progres-
sive banking organisations serving the
people of Australia.
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd
(Established 1885) (Established 1837)
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and
New Zealand , in Fiji, and in London.
Agents throughout the world.
RUPTURED?
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture, A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
Li
7
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel; FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method”
name
ADDRESS " ;
* •««•••• *********
........... STATE
rm
the name is
the whisky is
o*,
s<
•»
Distilled and
blended in Scotland
Mcl/3.2
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Chickens Home to Roost
As the months go by more and
more Maorilanders are finding
that the inflation chickens
hatched out in the war and post-
war years are coming home to
roost, and it’s taxing Maoriland’s
strength to feed them in the
Welfare State. It’s a costly
reckoning, which the wiseheads
warned Socialists was bound to
come after more than a decade
of Cheap money, snowballing
credit and over-use of the
printing-press.
Although nearly three years
have passed since the
Socialists were kicked out, the
get-rich-quick money and credit
policies on which the younger
generation of Maorilanders was
brought up didn’t die with them.
Only lately, when the brakes
were jammed on, was the weak-
ness of the fragile inflationary
structure seen and felt. Pros-
perity is still flowing, but not so
smoothly. There’s not much
profit in a lot of internal trade
now, although turnovers are still
high, and values have slumped
on the property market as well
as on the Stock Exchange.
Maorilanders with sizeable bank
accounts are taking good care
of them, while the rank-and-file
are living on the borderline, with
no margin for luxuries, thanks
mainly to loss of overtime pay
and falling-off in the number of
overrate workers.
The brightest side, in New
Zealand as in Australia, is a new
spirit behind production, above
all, in the factories. On the
farms, ’ M.L. producers have
pulled their weight fairly well all
along, and this has paid divs. in
big cheques from John Bull, even
though wool has slipped, and
even with bulk contracts holding
down prices for butter, cheese
and meat below what the Old
Man is paying foreign suppliers.
At the moment, the new spirit
isn’t anything to crow about, but
it’s there. What M.L. needs is
still more muscle on the job,
more managerial skill, less
bureaucratic control and a busi-
nesslike and determined effort to
cut overheads from State depart-
ments downwards.
One of the worst chickens is,
strangely enough, lack of capital,
after years of record monetary
expansion. Internally as well as
externally, N.Z. is scratching for
funds for a whole host of
schemes and projects which
should go ahead without delay.
Boiled down, the trouble is, of
course, nothing more nor less
than scarcity of materials and
equipment, along with the man-
power weakness, which isn’t
helped by having many men in
the wrong places and too many
on State and local-government
payrolls. One way and another,
there’s plenty of cleaning up to
be done on the manpower side,
and until it is tackled in real
earnest capital works won’t
move at anything better than a
walking pace.
The idea deeply - rooted
in MX. minds, that it’s
possible to live high while
jogging along on a 40-hour five-
day week, with morning- and
afternoon-tea breaks and a three-
weeks annual closedown, dies
hard. It can’t be said yet that
Maorilanders are ready to tighten
their belts to beat inflation. If
they want to make their Welfare
State a success they’ll have to
shape up to realities.
The N.Z. Sharemarket
After months of drift, capital
losses and devaluation of shares
and stocks, until many have
been going at or near bargain
levels, signs lately have been
pointing to a change in Maori-
land.
The supply of scrip at
give-away prices has never been
more than a trickle, and as weak
sellers are squeezed out it will
dry up altogether. With the
market consolidating and acquir-
ing more liquidity, this stage
can’t be far off. To the more
experienced, a wink is as good
as a nod and evidence enough
that values today should be
around bedrock. Since the years
of capital-gains, which ended in
mid-’5l, about 25 per cent., on
the average, has been written off
shares, with some issues, like
retail stores and textiles, a good
deal more heavily hit and only
a few fairly immune.
Most high-ranking shares in
New Zealand are now showing
yields between 4 p.c. and 5 p.c.,
which is, roughly, 1 p.c. better
than in the peak years, Prefs.
are on the 5 p.c. mark, and gilts
a shade above 4 p.c., which
doesn’t give local - governing
authorities much chance of
borrowing at the 4 p.c. new
pegged limit that’s been ruling
for them since the beginning of
August. Maorilanders, who can’t
forget that the 20 p.c, cut in
interest yields on long-term
stocks in the big depression was
never restored, are shy of all
fixed-interest securities with a
currency of more than a few
years, and this is crippling
borrowers.
Speculators have almost
vanished from the scene, so far
as share-dealing goes, for the
time being, and genuine investors
are left in possession. Altogether
the outlook seems favorable for
a more rapid return to activity
in Maoriland than in Australia,
helped by the procession of
attractively-priced new issues by
cos. with good div. records.
Most causes of weakness have
been eliminated in the big writing-
down, and only uneasiness over
trade prospects, behind the tight
exchange barrier, along with
uncertainty about wool and the
future of credit control, seems to
stand in the way of a return to
healthy business.
Trans-Tasman Tie-ups
Go-ahead and wide-awake
Maorilander department stores
are keenly on the lookout for
chances to form buying partner-
ships with big Australian con-
cerns which will give them access
to oversea supplies not other-
wise within their reach—at least,
not on such favorable terms. Be-
hind this is the aim to give better
service without increase in cost,
and the benefits should filter
through to the public in a
steady flow of quality goods
where Maorilanders for many
years, until the import boom,
had to be satisfied with second-
er third-best.
Price-cutting, sales-promotion
and even cut-throat competition
have been the common experi-
ence for N.Z. traders for nearly
a year, and if there’s one thing
they’ve learned more than an-
other it is that they’ll have to
keep a tighter rein on overheads
in future without (sacrifice in
competitive power. They can’t
afford to have a lot of capital,
most of it borrowed from the
banks, lying idle in excess stocks
as they have had for months
past; at the same time it won’t
do to have gaps in stocks, which
would leave some trade to pass
pass them by.
As every trader has learnt, it
calls for almost superhuman
skill to keep to the happy
medium when there are so many
factors to contend with in all
directions, most of all in these
days of exchange and price-
controls ; so arrangements to
gain the support of big London
buying houses which understand
Dominion markets are among
the best form of self-preserva-
tion. Among other things, they
should help department houses
to stand up to the stern challenge
of chain stores. The latest of
these tie-ups has been formed by
George Court and Sons, Ltd.,
Auckland, with the Myer Em-
porium, Ltd., to come into force
in the new year. Other links by
M. firms include David Jones,
Ltd., and Henry Jones Co-
operative, Ltd. Woolworths’ big
N. chain, of course, has the
powerful aid of the Australian
parent.
Capital-asset Need
Big dips into New Zealand’s
exchange pool to buy capital
equipment for national, muni-
cipal or private industrial pro-
jects have had a good deal to
do with tipping the balance of
payments the wrong way, and if
Maoriland goes on spending
heavily on capital items it will
have to make up its mind to go
short of consumer goods.
The alternative is to borrow
abroad, which Maoriland hasn’t
done, except for war needs, for
a long time. If it came to a
choice the Holland Government
might prefer the alternative,
which would mean a return to
the old traditional method of
building up national assets by
outside aid. Current export
earnings, although around
£NZ2OO million or so, which
is still high for Maoriland, are
clearly not enough to go round
since the impact of recent events,
particularly the setback to wool
and further rises in import
prices.
No doubt N.Z. will be able
to do a good deal by credit and
exchange controls to get back
to a balance; but if it relies on
these alone Maorilanders will
have to prepare for very con-
siderable tightening of their
belts. The volume of money has
been reduced after 20 years of
unbroken expansion, and with
overdrafts now falling at the
rate of a couple of million a
week the tightening-up process
seems to be about as fast as is
safe.


UPWSI
- eB -* i- 3
? fr-Ji
ri-f,
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000.000.
Has your Executor these
The Executor and Trustee of your Will must have
certain qualifications if he is to administer your Estate
in the best interests of your dependents.
(1) He must have wide experience in the solution of
business, financial and other problems. (2) He must
be of absolute probity. (3) He must be accessible at
all reasonable times and (4) He must never grow too
old for sound judgment.
You cannot find all these qualifications in a private
person but you CAN find them in Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
If you would fiave particulars of the services offered
by the Company, ring B 0377, or write, and make an
appointment A Senior Officer will gladly supply the
information you desire.
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYPAXB, M.L.C.. Chairman;
E. B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS:
D. B. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HOBDEBN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. G. ABMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
McPherson’s, Ltd.
Parent Only.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f —Dividends—serves. serves.
“E” Ord.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1948.. 257,374 11 8 = 106,232 151,142 1,419,507
Excess tax provision, £lBl3 .. 1,421,320
From specific reserves, £80,723 .. 1,452,503
Bonus from subsid., £6390 .. .. 1,458,433
1949.. 262,004 13 10 = 132,845 129,159 1,587,592
Excess tax provision, £2816 .. 1,590,408
From specific reserves, £2OB .. 1,590,616
1950.. 301,574 15 10 = 134,529 167,045 1,757,661
1951.. 429,235 15 10 = 206,788 222,447 1,980,108
Excess tax provision, £47.250 .. 2,027,858
Loss sale assets, £825 .. .. 2,026,533
1952.. 481,645 15 10 = 231,779 249,866 2,276,399
Since the public became interested
about seven years ago, highlights of
the accounts of this old-established
organisation—the foundations were laid
by Thomas McPherson in Melbourne as
far back as 1860 —have been rapid
expansion of the business and mainten-
ance of an attractive level of earnings in
relation to capital.
The group—parent, four subsidiaries
and three associated cos.—whose activities
now spread throughout the Common-
wealth and New Zealand, is engaged in
manufacture and/or distribution of a
wide range of engineering and hardware
lines essential to the needs of an expand-
ing economy. They include drilling-,
milling- and planing-machines, lathes,
power-hammers, all kinds of machine-
and trade-tools, bolts, nuts and workshop
equipment, etc.
To finance continued growth the board
sought C.I.C. authority to issue 610,000
new £1 ords, at par early in the last term,
but received consent, in Nov., 1951, to
put out only 250,000 of them. It was
not enough, and the co. had gone to its
bankers for an extra £873,532, raising
the overdraft to £1,225,299 at June 30
last. Since then permission was received
to offer those on the register at Oct. 1
693,000 new £1 ords. at par, one for
three. The issue, proceeds of which are
to be used mainly to reduce the overdraft,
will lift paid capital to £2,930,989 in
2,771,389 ords. and 159,600 “E” shares.
The latter (issued to employees for cash)
rank equally with the ords. for divs., but
at the discretion of the board may receive
up to one and a half times the ord. rate.
In a wind-up or return of capital they
also rank equally with the ords. up to
20s. a share, but do not participate in
surplus assets. For the last three years
they have received their maximum div.
entitlement (15 p.c.). On £2,930,989 of
capital 10 p.c. to the ords. and 15 p.c. to
the “E” shares will call for £301,079,
or only two-thirds of the profit claimed
last term. This and other things augur
well for maintenance of the 10 p.c. div.
Although the parent’s sales eased
“slightly” half-way through the last term,
and a number of outstanding orders were
cancelled, business continued at “a high
level,” and is now improving again. For
the full year turnover increased by over
27 p.c.:
Revenue— 1950. 1951. 1952.
Sales .. ~ £5,879,981 £8,170,713 £10,391,411
Divg. subsids... 16,672 17,122 20,138
Sundry income 6,489 7,537 6,553
Total .. £5,903,142 £8,195,372 £10,418,102
Outgo—
Exes., etc.* .. 5,316,305 7,218,566 9,411,322
Depreciation .. 85,263 121,021 130,835
Tax provision.. 200,000 426,550 394,300
Total .. £5,601,568 £7,766,137 £9,936,457
Net profit .. 301,574 429,235 481,645
* Includes cost of goods sold.
Exes., etc., made off with 90.5 p.c. of
sales revenue as against 88.3 p.c. in 1951,
a moderate increase considering the steep
rise in wage and other operating costs.
The reduction in tax provision arises from
abolition of the 10 p.c. prepayment. The
£481,645 (up £52,410) of profit claimed
was 21.5 p.c. on average capital (ord. and
“E” combined) compared with 21.6, 23.5,
20.1 and 19.8 p.c. back to 1948. Actually
the position was a bit better than stated
because the subsidiaries earned more than
they distributed in dividends.
The year’s net growth in total assets
was £1,244,348, mainly in respect of
stocks (up £879,301), book-debts (up
£185,698) and freehold and plant (up
£146,158):
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital . . £1,303,186 £1,988.079 £2,237,989
Bank overdraft . . 640,771 351,767 1,225,299
Creditors . . . . 586,316 879,143 744,710
Owing to subsid.. . 14,473 21,940 28,365
Tax provision . . 200,000 427,630 856,262
Final div. .. 134,527 206,788 231,779
Freeholds . . 514,620 561,591 580,486
Plant, etc. . . 337,623 529,526 656,789
Shares in subsid. 232,526 288,445 834,352
Other shares . . 182,778 215,778 248,777
Stocks .. . . 1,961,616 2,331,172 3,210,473
Debtors . . . . 1,317,346 1,853,098 2,038,796
Owing by subsid. 42,312 29,993 29,886
Cash and bonds .. 48,115 45,854 1,246
To help meet the year’s outlay and clip
£134,433 off the amount coming to trade
creditors, shareholders put up an extra
£249,910 of fresh capital and the over-
draft was increased as already mentioned.
Stocks are reported in “satisfactory con-
dition,” and, owing to import restrictions,
some lines are expected to be in short
supply before long.
The market expresses its faith in the
undertaking by pricing the old ords., ex
rights, at 355. 9d., giving a return of
5.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The rights
recently sold at around 15s. 6d., giving a
similar return. Including the new issue,
net tangible cover is 365. sd.
Amalgamated Retailers, Ltd.
Dividend To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.serves.*
£ £ £ £
1944.. 52,676 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 52,618 58 124,378
1945.. 57,569 10 „ 10 „ 52,618 4,951129,329
1946.. 66,660 10 „ 12i „ 62,022 4,638133,967
1947.. 76,668 10 „ 15 ~ 71,426 5,242189,209
From tax reserve, £30,000 .. ..169,209
1948.. 105,007 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 33,581 202,790
From bad-debts reserve, £30,000 .. 232,790
1949.. 114,515 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 43,089 275,879
From bad-debts reserve, £30,000 . . 305,879
1950.. 120,294 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 75,893 44,401 350,280
Revaluation assets, £145,330 .. ..495,610
Reserves capitalised, £181,662 .. ..363,948
From stock reserves, £30,000 .. .. 393,948
1951.. 207,482 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 114,138 93,844 487,292
1952.. 188,782 10 „ 15 „ 163,077 25,705 512,997
Debenture issue exes., £17,088 .. 495,909
* After deducting, goodwill, £2200.
The co. changed its nameplate from
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd., to the
present title at the annual meeting on
August 9. That was because the bulk
of business done is now in the retail field,
where activities were widened and ex-
panded early last term by absorption of
Murdochs, Ltd., the men’s- and boys’-wear
business, near the Town Hall, Sydney.
The vendor had a paid capital of £649,323
in 280,340 p.c. prefs. and 366,631
ords., all of £1 each, and 11,764 employee
shares of 4s. each, backed by net tangible
assets with a book-value of £537,120 at
July 31, 1950. The purchaser offered
20s. each for the prefs. and 255. 6d. for
the ords., and, at the close of last
accounts, showed a net increase of
£650,111 in shares in subsidiaries. To
finance the deal and provide for further
expansion £1,100,000 of 4\ p.c. debentures
was issued in July, 1951. Murdoch’s
profit for the year to July, 1950, was
£25,275. Since then net earnings have not
been disclosed. Last term sales are re-
ported to have increased by 40 p.c., but
no ord. div. was paid, money being wanted
for remodelling of the premises.
The rest of the Amalgamated co.’s set-
up consists of parent and three sub-
sidiaries, which vend short-term credit,
furniture and furnishings, etc., in N. S.
Wales, Victoria and Queensland. For
the year to June 30 last turnover of the
whole group (including Murdochs) was
just on £10,000,000 (up £3,500,000), of
which about £4.800,000 was in respect
of hire-purchase agreement, oyer
£4,500,000 retail sales and less than
£700,000 cash-orders. One of the offshoots
made a capital profit of £36,000 on sale
of a Sydney property during the year, but
this was in no way reflected in the parent s
accounts.
After allowing unspecified amounts for
taxation, bad debts and other contin-
gencies, and investing £11,003 in a deben-
ture sinking-fund, the parent claimed a
profit of £188,782 (down £18,700). The
drop was due for the most part to the
increased weight of staff pay-envelopes.
The £188,782 was enough to pay the pref.
div. (£15,000) and show 17.6 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 29.1, 25.9,
26.4 and 23.9 p.c. back to 1948. The
contraction in net earning-power was not
as great as the percentage figures suggest,
because £131,662 of bonus-scrip was
issued in October, 1950. For the same
reason the 15 p.c. div. is worth 17.3 p.c.
on ord. capital as it now stands, less the
gift-issue. None of the subsidiaries made
a loss, and their profits were taken into
account by the parent only to the extent
of divs. declared. The position, there-
fore, is probably better than claimed.
Changes in the financial structure are
disclosed in the next table:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital. . 526,177 647,712 1,110,146 1,137,464
Debentures “ 1,100,000
Mortgages .. 12,850 12,350
Overdraft . . 187,373 217,280 619,979
Creditors* . . 408,353 481,822 699,816 1,079,009
Pinal divs. . . 35,713 40,180 67,845 81,560
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 84,804 124.069 13,309 13,309
Equipment .. 80,879 42,105 59,872 62,702
Deb. redempt’n 11,003
Shares subsids. 123,878 269,215 919,326
Shares other cos. 85,728 299,948 46,126
Stock . . 212,277 259,693 569,212 478,405
Book debts . . 923,895 1,098,340 1,757.781 2,827,173
Cash, etc. .. 5,034 15,813 15,741 35,898
Intangibles . . 2,200 2,200. 2,200 2,200
* Includes provision for taxation and amounts owing
to subsidiaries.
To help meet the year’s net addition to
shares in subsidiaries, carry an extra
£569,392 of book-debts and wipe out the
overdraft (£619,979 at the previous
balance) the co. raised the debenture debt
already referred to, added £379,979 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
and reduced shareholdings in other cos.
by £253,822 and stocks by £90,807. Ex-
cluding shares in subsidiaries, more-or-
less liquid assets exceeded current lia-
bilities by £1,727,033 when the books
closed.
Maintenance of the 15 p.c. div.—an
annual event since 1936, except for the
3j years to 1946 —will depend largely
upon how the Murdoch business turns
out. Activity in the furniture and furnish-
ing trades has slackened, competition is
becoming keener and wage and other
costs are still buoyant.
Since early 1952 the price of the f.-p.
12s. ords. has fluctuated between 28s, 6d.
and 21s. 3d. in the market. Last week
the figure was 225. Bd., giving a return
of 7.9 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. • basis, or
6.6 p.c, should the distribution drop to
12 p.c. The £1 prefs. at 30s. 3d. yield
6.6 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £lO 17s. lOd. prefs. and 18s. ords.
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 18,121 6 p.c. = 17,921 200 51,720
1946.. 18,077 6 „ „ 17,921 156 61,876
1947.. 17,952 6 „ „ 17,921 31 51,907
From tax provision, £4518 .. .. 56,420
1948.. 10,036 6 p.c. = 17,921 48,585
1949.. 17,985 6 „ „ 17,921 64 48,599
1950.. 28,836 7 „ „ 20,907 2,928 51,528
Sale of shares, £4065 55,593
1951.. 17,038 7 p.c. = 20,908 51,723
Sale assets, £7767 59,490
1952.. 2,745 2| p.c. = 7,467 54,768
Some of the co.’s shareholders are not
satisfied that the management has done
all it might to arrest the drift in net
earnings, etc. And they said so at the
annual meeting on Oct. 1, when a reso-
lution for appointment of a shareholders’
investigation committee was declared lost
by the chairman.
Following the meeting the board
circularised shareholders saying, among
other things, that “a small shareholder,
who was an ex-employee of the co., has
sought to disrupt proceedings at general
meetings by making statements not in
accordance with the facts” ; and that the
directors “consider it their duty to advise
shareholders not to sell their shares.”
On the heels of the board’s effusion
has come another circular, this time
from chartered accountant H. J. David-
son, who recently became a shareholder
and who supports the appointment of a
committee of investigation. He says a
majority of shareholders present at the
annual meeting plainly expressed their
desire for the appointment of such a
committee on a show of hands, and that
the chairman was in error in declaring
lost the resolution in question because
of proxies held by him. Mr. Davidson
further states that, according to the co.’s
articles, proxies may be used only in the
event of a poll, and that no poll was
held. This, he contends, constitutes a
challenge to the legal authority of share-
holders which he intends to accept on
their behalf if given the necessary support.
He has twice previously investigated the
co.’s affairs—in 1924 and again during
the depression of 20 years ago.
And there the matter stands for the
present. The next step would appear to
be a petition to the board to call an
extraordinary general meeting to decide
exactly what should be done.
The co., which has been in the catering
trade for the last 43 years, has had many
ups and downs. It was very prosperous
during the first half of its career, but
there has been a steady drift in earnings
sinc'e. Profits averaged £34,384 for the
four years to 1939, £18,945 for the eight
years to 1947 and £14,328 for the five
years to the close of last accounts.
Certainly conditions in the restaurant
business have become progressively more
difficult, and over the last 12 months or
so there has been a number of casualties
in the trade. But that ought to be to the
benefit of the survivors, provided they
are fully alive to all their opportunities..
Last terra turnover was £47,091 better
at £794,751. The collapse of net earnings
was due to the steep rise in costs, greater
in commodity prices than in wages, and
to the time-lag in lifts in controlled
selling-prices. The £2745 (down £14,293)
of profit claimed was poorest since 1933,
and no allowance was made for deprecia-
tion. It was a shade under 1 p.c. on
capital as against 5.7, 7.9, 6, 3.3 and 6 p.c.
back to 1947. Reserves benefited by a
capital profit of £7767 on sale of one of
the freeholds. An interim div. of 2\ p.c.
was paid, but no final. Average distribu-
tion over the last decade was 5.8 p.c.
Some of the co.’s restaurants, which
had become a drag, have been closed,
and to secure a new outlet for factory
products a joint venture Was entered
upon with Safeway Stores Pty., which
operates a self-service grocery chain.
Though competition in this field is keen
and margins narrow, results have
encouraged the board to acquire the
entire Safeway’s undertaking.
To further mechanise the factory and
meet the growth in stocks, owing to rising
prices, the co. has had to go into debt:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £298,682 £298,682 £298,682 £298,682
Overdraft .. 144,784 154,544 130,765 171,293
Creditors* . . 53,541 65,189 ,102,266 106,463
Freeholds . . 308,132 309.906 310,865 316,985
Leaseholds . . 4,366 3,529 4,110 2,468
Plant, etc. . . 91,867 93,926 88,121 104,580
Shares other cos. 82,954 96,705 118,813 112,438
Stocks . . 45,769 51,225 51,748 71,683
Debtors . . 20,939 26,043 19,702 22,568
Cash . . 540 556 521 485
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last term the net addition to plant was
£16,459 and to stocks £19,935. The over-
draft was increased by £40,538 and the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
by £4197. The reduction of £6375 in
shares in other cos. was the net result of


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
• and PERTH
With "Bob" on the Job!
you’ll find life easier—in the workshop,
office, home or on the farm. “Bob” is a
sturdy stapling and tacking tool that’s
worth its weight in gold for fixing labels,
posters, gauze; for mending shoes, belts,
bags, harness, covers; for making boxes,
folders, toys, for installing wires and for
a thousand other jobs. Besides tacking
and stapling, it drives nails in corners
where a hammer’s useless. “Bob,” with
two locking levers, a steel plate for
clinching, a magnet and about 1000
assorted stainless staples, all in a solid
wooden box, costs 29/6 (postage 27-
extra). It would make an ideal gift.
Send Order Today /—DOMEX TRADING CO,
(Dept. 22j), 243 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
is
® s
ir
w
Public Notices
I, ALEXANDER RAADLUND, of Nor-
wegian nationality, born at Yladivostock,
Siberia, resident 10 years in Australia,
now residing at 232 William Street,
King’s Cross, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, LESLIE SAFRAN, of Rumanian nation-
ality, bom at Gyorok, Rumania, resident
five years in Australia, now residing at 5
Marne Street, Vaucluse, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
! ' g
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
“KING OF THE ROAD” BATTERIES
§
Lucas Batteries are now manufactured
in Australia’s most modern batter/ factory where all
processes are controlled by the latest laboratory methods
to ensure power, long-life and dependability.
gd
SERVICE HINT
Keep battery connections
clean and tight. After clean-
ing, smear with petroleum
jelly before refitting to pre-
vent corrosion.
Gi
lucas uenmne spare parts
For reliability and economy, always insist on replacement parts made by
the Original equipment makers. Only in this way can satisfactory per-
formance be guaranteed.
Original Equipment on most British Cars and Trucks.
Available from all leading garages and service stations or apply to
BRlSBANE —Elphinstones Ltd., Ann St. • SYDNEY—Bennett and Wood Pty. Ltd.,
13-23 Wentworth Av. • MELBOURNE —Starting Lighting Ignition Pty. Ltd., 68-78
Sturt St., Sth. Melbourne • ADELAIDE —Hannan Bros. Ltd., 63 Franklin St.
PERTH— Joseph Lucas (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 627-639 Wellington St.
HOBART— W. A. Richards, 56 Collins St.
LAUNCESTON— H. C. Thompson and Co., 97 Charles St.
Joseph Lucas (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
sales of the co.’s holdings in
Sargents (Newcastle), Ltd., and
Mayfair Restaurant Pty., and
entry into the Safeway’s venture.
When the books closed there was
15s. Bd. of outside money in the
business for every pound
belonging to shareholders.
Prices of the co.’s f.-p. shares,
which had fallen from 15s. 4d. at
August 31 to 13s. early in
October, stood at 15s. last week.
The return at 15s. would be
3.3 p.c. on a 2\ p.c. distribution,
or 6 p.c. on a 4 \ p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 235. Bd.,
mainly in freeholds, believed to
be worth more than their book-
value, and plant, which is worth
what it can earn.
Finney, Isles & Co. (Bris.)
Re-
July, Profit. , —Dividends—, serves.
£ £ £
1944.. 65,945 10 p.c. = 39,263 221,149
1945.. 78,453 10 „ „ 39,883 269,719
Maintenance res. down £2568 257,151
1946.. 82,290 10 p.c. = 40,206 299,235
Maintenance res. down £1782 297,453
1947.. 74,002 10 p.c. = 40,206 331,249
Maintenance res. down £1925 329,324
1948.. 83,377 10 p.c. = 40,206 372,495
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 367,495
Maintenance res. down £9605 357,890
1949.. 82,319 10 p.c. = 40,206 400,003
Maintenance res. down £2988 897,015
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 392,015
1950.. 91,060 p.c. = 50,259 432,816
Maintenance res. down £1132 431,684
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 426,684
1951.. 113,021 12J p.c. = 51,353 488,352
1952.. 29,718 10 „ „ 45,945 472,127
The abrupt contraction in the
latest profit figure is more indica-
tive of what has passed than of
what lies ahead; and mainten-
ance of the 10 p.c. div., an
annual event for the last 15
years, with a 2\ p.c. sweetener
added in ’5O and ’5l, is a reason-
able anticipation. Well-handled
and soundly-shod financially, the
co. is one of Brisbane’s biggest
and most fashionable department
stores, and the shop is in the
centre of the city’s busiest
trading-centre. *
When comparing the profit
for 1951 with that of 1952 it
should be first remembered that
abnormal conditions influenced
each year’s results, boosting the
one and depressing the other.
Last term a spate of imports
ended the era of shortages in the
retail trade, where there since
has been a growth of consumer
resistance, and consequent switch
from a sellers’ to a buyers’
market. Other features have
been the tightening of credit,
narrowing of gross margins,
clearances of some lines at cut
prices, and steep rise in wage
and all other operating costs.
All-told, it was an unholy com-
bination, the impact of which
might have been worse but for
import restrictions and timely
action by the banks.
Finney’s lost no time in trim-
ming sail to the altered trade-
winds. The chairman puts it
this way:
It was considered prudent to clear
out all goods which had a deflated
value, particularly woollens when the
price of wool was dropping. This we
did successfully during the winter, and
cleared our woollen piecegoods,
blankets, fashion goods and men’s
wear, etc., at very reduced prices.
These goods we are now able to buy
at a very much lower price than here-
tofore, and these benefits will be
passed on to the public.
Sales continued on the up-
grade for the first half of the
term, eased during the third
quarter and then picked up to-
ward the close of accounts. But
the overall gain of £26,500 in
gross profit, and a lot more
besides, was gobbled by wage
and other exes, (up £149,954):
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Gross profit .. 456,131 589,939 616,439
Exes 299.802 382,449 532,403
Depreciation .. 12,559 14,959 22,781
Tax allowance,
etc, .. .. 52,710 79,510 31.537
Net profit .. 91.060 113,021 29,718
The squeeze was only partly
softened by the smaller allow-
fance for taxation, etc. (down
£47,973). The modest £29,718
(down £83,303) of profit was
lowest earned since the peak of
the depression 20 years ago. It
was 6.5 p.c. on capital compared
with 27.5, 22.6, 20.4, 20.7 and
18.4 p.c. back to 1947. To pay
the 10 p.c. div. the board dipped
into reserves for £16,227, reduc-
ing them to £472,127, which was
still £20,003 in excess of paid
capital. So the two combined
need turn in only a shade under
5 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. on capital
alone.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Capital .. 402,067 452,124,452.124
Overdraft . . 67,088 153,744
Creditors, etc. 191,291 260,313 105,749
Tax reserve .. 66,835 86,570 43,189
Final div. .. 30,165 31.250 22,606
Property,
plant, etc. .. 545,733 634,941 653,805
Stock ... . . 434,067 667,527 497,061
Book debts . . 65,998 84,888 95,169
Investments,
cash, etc. .. 82,365 3,340 3,502
The year’s net reduction in stocks
was £170,466. This, together
with an extra £86,656 from the
bank, enabled the co. to pay
the previous year’s tax bill, slash
£154,564 off the amount com-
ing to trade creditors, etc., as
well as add £18,864 to fixed
assets and £10,281 to book-debts.
The figures suggest a high ratio
of cash to credit trading.
Steps taken by the Govern-
ment and the banks, together
with the seasonal outlook and
satisfactory level of export
prices, should do much to steady
the position in the retail trade.
However, competition will be
keen and profit margins narrow.
Blackest spot in the outlook is
the still-rising wage-cost spiral,
which will press heavily upon the
level of employment and the
standard of living as well as
trade profits.
At 295. lOd. (40s. early in
1952) the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares
return a very satisfactory 6.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
40s. lid.
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
Ord.
June, Income. Exes.f Surplus. Div.*
£ £ £ £
80 p.c.
1950 1,784,472 1,183,025 601,447 280,000
1951 1,699,945 1,329,238 370,707 280,000
1952 2,453,023 2,067,445 385,578 280,000
* Prefs. received 8 p.c. p.a. (£16,000)
until 1945, and then 7 p.c. p.a.
(£21,000). t Includes depreciation.
Because ore-reserves were more
than doubled by drill disclosures
in the adjoining Sugarloaf area,
and because the value of the ore
has been enhanced by its pyritic
content, the board has written-
up the book-value of the mine
by £11,050,000. This amount
was capitalised in a three-for-one
bonus-issue to those on the ord.
register at June 27 last. The old
2s. 6d. ords. were then converted
into 10s, units. Thus paid
capital now stands at £1,700,000
in 300,000 £1 7 p.c. prefs.
(redeemable June, 1959) and
2,800,000 ords. of 10s. each.
Last terra more ore was
treated for a better outturn of
gold and copper, the price of the
red metal rose by halting steps
from £230 to £285 per ton, and
earnings benefited by £26,812
from sale of gold on the “free”
market at a premium over the
statutory price. The increase in
total income was £753,078.
Exes, took all but £14,817 of the
gain. Mining and ore treatment
costs were 7s, 2.9 d. heavier at
31s. 5,7 d. per ton, and smelting
costs rose by £5 to £53 2s. 3d.
per ton of copper produced. On
capital as it now stands the
£385,578 of profit was enough to
pay the pref. div. (£21,000) and
show 26 p.c. on ord. capital, and
20 p.c. (equal to 80 p.c. before
the gift) was distributed.
Mining and assay figures com-
pare as follows:
Sulphide
Waste Ore , Assay——»
June, Discarded, Treated, Gold, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Dwt. p.c.
1950.. 1,155,074 849,500 2.81 0.58
1951.. 1,402,131 864,900 2.83 0.62
1952.. 1,618,842 892,250 2.19 0.70
To obtain access to ore in the
Sugarloaf extension the pro-
gramme of overburden removal
is now being stepped up. It is
one of the biggest problems the
management has to deal with.
From mill concentrates, etc.,
the smelter produced these
results:
Metal Content ■,
Blister, Copper, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Tons. Oz. Oz.
1950 . . 3614 3570 69,045 14,600
1951 .. 4168 4119 65,135 17,415
1952 .. 5651 5584 72,925 24,250
In addition 52,760 tons (up
31,370 tons) of pyritic concen-
trates, assaying 48.8 p.c. sulphur,
were produced. In the near
future it is expected to lift pro-
duction to 180,000 tons p.a.,
which will call for installation of
additional plant.
Ore. reserves at June 28 last
were put at 14,500,000 tons
averaging 2.7dwt. gold and 1.02
p.c. copper, of which 6,850,000
tons was in the Sugarloaf area.
In addition there is 7,000,000
tons of pyritic material which
the co. might be able to treat at
a profit. Since the close of ac-
counts the price of copper has
been lifted to £350 a ton.
The market prices the f.-p.
10s. shares at 225. 10d., giving an
immediate return of 8.8 p.c. on
a 20 p.c. div. basis.


DOUGLAS
STEWART'S
The Birdsville Track
1. THE FIERCE COUNTRY
Three hundred miles to Birdsville from Marree
Man makes his mark across a fierce country
That has no flower but the whitening bone and skull
Of long-dead cattle, no word but “I will kill.”
Here the world ends in a shield of purple stone
Naked in its long war against the sun;
The white stones flash, the red stones leap with fire:
It wants no interlopers to come here.
Whatever it is that speaks through softer earth
Still tries to stammer indeed its broken phrases;
Between some crack in the stone mosaic brings forth
Yellow and white like suns the papery daisies;
The cassia drinks the sky in its gold cup,
Straggling on sandhills the dwarf wild-hops lift up
Their tufts of crimson flame; and the first hot wind
Blows out the suns and smothers the flames in sand.
And man too like the earth in the good season
When the Diamantina floods the whole horizon
And the cattle grow fat on wildflowers says his proud
word:
Gathers the stones and builds four-square and hard:
Where the mirage still watches with glittering eyes
The ruins of his homestead crumble on the iron rise
Dust on the waterless plains blows over his track,
The sun glares down on the stones and the stones glare
back.
2. MARREE
Oh the corrugated-iron town
In the corrugated-iron air
Where the shimmering heat-waves glare
To the red-hot iron plain
And the steel mirage beyond: •
The blackfellow’s squalid shanty
Of rags and bags and tins,
The bright red dresses of the gins
Flowering in that hot country
Like lilies in the dust’s soft pond:
The camels’ bones and the bullocks’,
The fierce red acre of death
Where the Afghan groans beneath
His monstrous concrete blankets
That peel in the heat like rind:
Where life if it hopes to breathe
Must crawl in the shade of a stone
Like snake and scorpion;
All tastes like dust in the mouth.
All strikes like iron in the mind.
3. THE NAMELESS
Glint of pebbles in the sun,
Dark red and shining white.
Snug in their iron railings
That shut the desert out
While marble angels weep
Shimmering tears of heat
The lucky dead men keep
Their names alive on a stone
With texts of pious hope
And no recorded failings.
But each in his glinting mound
Of pebbles raked in a heap,
Without one mark to show
There is a man below
Except that long low shape.
Lie the nameless ones;
And cook like bread in an oven.
In the pubs, on the plains.
In the sun’s white blink.
Some died of too much drink
And some of not enough;
And all may be in heaven.
But gone, gone out of mind.
A dead man should have a name.
What’s a bare heap of stones
For pity or for love,
For praise or blame or fame?
4. THE WHIPMAKER
One thousand miles from everywhere
North or south or east or west
Where league on league the red stones glare
And summer rolls in clouds of dust
With grave lean face, long fingertips,
Alec Scobie sits plaiting wdiips.
Kidman drover, station owner
Till drought walked in in ’seventeen;
The grey walls crumble at Ooroowilanie,
The red stones bake where the dam was green:
Those who tread the Birdsville Track
Make a whip for their own back.
Now in the veranda’s shade
He twistsi the burning country in
Sixteen strands of kangaroo hide
Like a river cool and thin;
When it coils in a red snake
It’s not him it means to strike.
5. AFGHAN
Mopping his coppery forehead under his turban.
Old Bejah in baggy trousers, bearded, immense:
"Oh ya, oh ya, the young man dead in the sands,
I dig with my hands, I find him, and fifty yards further
The other, both dead, so young; no water, no water."
The gestures, the voice, all larger and wilder than human.
Some whirlwind out of the desert. “Two days in the sun,
Done when I sight the camp. I shoot off my gun
And Larry Wells he carry me over his shoulder;
Looking for water out there; oh ya, no water."
Old camel-driver, explorer, the giant Afghan
Who steered his life by compass and by Koran,
“Oh ya, believe in God; young man no care;
God save, God help; oh ya, need help out there!”
And fondled his box of brass and kissed his book
So passionately, with such a lover’s look.
He whirled in deserts still, too wild for human.
6. THE TRACK BEGINS
Where red stones burn and white stones flash
Dead bullocks lie like living flesh;
The dingo tunnels below the hide.
Crow and eaglehawk work inside;
Cleaned by the wind, by hot sun dried.
With folded legs and heads turned back
Just as they lived, just as they died,
Hollow and gaunt and bony-eyed
They stare along the Birdsville Track.
7. GRASSHOPPER
And then the red stone hopped
Where all the stones were red
And it had legs like a frog
And a big strange insect’s head.
Oh where’s the green world gone
When even the grasshopper turns
To a kind of dragon of the sun
In a land of hopping stones?
8. WORLD’S END
Bright and golden and hard like some great spark
From worlds colliding in space the star of evening
Flares by the single thorn on the desert’s rim
Where like a star itself, no world of ours.
With all the green earth cancelled, cities and flowers.
The high pure slope of purple stone lies heaving
Its monstrous shoulder into the stellar dark.
The plover fly with their iron cries unseen,
Somewhere the fox runs yapping across the stones,
And though there are willows down by the Clayton Bore
Where the wagtail sings in the night like a clear sweet rill.
All waits on the barren height for the dingo’s howl
To catch with starlight ringing in his cold tones
The very voice of the world on this lost plain.
9. THE BRUMBY
Two dingoes and a brumby:
The tawny dog and the white bitch
And the stallion dead from thirst.
When they had ate and drunk their fill
They loped into the blazing west.
The tawny dog and the white bitch
By stony flat and sandy hill
To where they lay in light’s own lair
Of burning stone and white-hot air;
Two dingoes quit the brumby.
And stark and stiff when they had gone
Like bitch of light and dog of flame
The black horse lay and kicked the sun
Whence all this evil came.
10. THE HUMORISTS
The red cow died and the Hereford bull,
Two figures more to cancel:
Dan Corcoran took a bullock’s skull
And wrote on it with a pencil:
“Here I lie on the Birdsville Track
Driven to death by Scotty Mac.”
Scotty Mac laughed fit to kill.
Saw it six months later;
Took another and tried his skill:
“Here I lie like an old tin can
Kicked down the Track by droving Dan”—
Thus drover joked with drover.
Whether the bullocks laughed as well
Nobody knows or cares;
But what they wrote on a bullock’s skull
A bullock could write on theirs.
11. RUINS
Two golden butterflies mating over the ruins
Of the iron house that is nowhere’s dark dead centre
Stark on the rise in the huge hot circle of the plains
All doors and windows gaping for the wind to enter —
Lord, Lord they think that nowhere is dll the world
And, so they can dance their golden dance of love,
One hot blue day in the desert more than enough.
And in that same dark house when her husband perished
The woman, they say, lived on so long alone
With what she could think and the household things she
cherished.
Staring at that vast island of purple stone
Without one break until the mirage unfurled
Its ogean of steel, it tore a great gap in her mind
Harsh as the loose sheet of iron that bangs in the wind.
12. THE MULES
Having no foal of their own those two mad mules
Ran aching over the red stone plain for miles
And where the thornbush softened the hot blue air
With shade and prickly flowers they found the mare
And bared their teeth and took her foal for their own.
Oh they were mad and happy those two dark mules,
They ran at the mother wild with their flying heels,
Their long ears wagged with love as they nuzzled her colt.
Brooding like a cloud above it, not knowing their fault:
They had no milk to give suck and it died on the stone.
13. PLACE NAMES
Ethadinna, Mira Mitta,
Mulka, Mungerannie—
Dark shadows blown
With the dust away.
Far from our day
Far out of time,
Fill the land with water.
Where the blue sky flames
On the bare red stone,
Dulkaninna, Koperamanna,
Ooroowilanie, Kilalpaninna —
Only the names
In the land remain
Like a dark well
Like the chime of a bell.
14. SOMBRERO
In a cowboy hat and a dark-green shirt.
Lithe on a piebald pony.
The blackfellow rode through the coolibah trees
Where the creek was dry and stony.
Here's fifty horses from Pandie Pandie
To drove to far Marree
But before I start on the track again
I’ll boil up a billy of tea. t
Oh he was dark as the gibber stones
And took things just as easy
And a white smile danced on his purple lips
Like an everlasting daisy.
The horses strayed on the saltbush plain
And he went galloping after,
The green shirt flew through the coolibah trees
Like budgerigars to water.
And then what need had he to sigh
For old men under the gibbers
When he was free as the winds that blow
Along the old dry rivers?
He had the lubras’ hot wild eyes.
His green shirt and sombrero,
He rode the plains on a piebald horse
And he was his own hero.
15. OUTLAW
What if the country bred no more
Than some Ned Kelly or Ben Hall
And with the outlaw’s hate and fear
That lion-colored dingo runs
Uneasy by the lignum bush
Waiting the shot, the pain, the fall.
The red calf paid for to the full —
Still in this burning place of stones
While there is none more fierce than he.
More cruel and cunning, wild and free.
More self-sufficient, self-secure
On wastes of stone and sun and sand,
I saw him in that murderous hush
The lion of his lean land.
16. LIZARD
The bicycle lizard heard a noise
And shook in his bony frame;
Though life’s no more than a diet of flies
Fried on a red stone’s flame
Or a butterfly picked with great good luck
From a silver saltbush bubble
The dingo snapped and the eaglehawk struck
When somebody moved the pebble;
And life was sweet in the glare of steel
On the purple stones that day —
The bicycle lizard stood on his tail
And rapidly wheeled away.
17. BLAZES WELL
And when they came to Blazes Well
The sides had fallen in,
The hot wind blew on the high windmill
And the bent vane would not spin.
There was no water on that plain
But fire in stone and air
Licking the cattle bones again
That dingoes had picked bare.
And from that well of empty hope
From iron tower and spoke
The silly crying galahs flew up
Like red flame and like smoke.
18. MIRAGE
Not that he’d go as some indeed would run
Stumbling across the waste of hot red stone
Where like some crystal snake the heat-haze writhes
To drink that water that had not water’s look
(Oh gentle smile of the creek where green grass flourished)
But rather was steel flame and purple smoke
Towering upon the horizon: some raw new-chum
Who soon enough would be pulling off his clothes
And raving in crazy circles till he perished
While the'water that was not water flowed over him.
Not that for him! Only it had a way
Of seeming to creep through the saltbush greenish and
grey.
You could not see for the bushes where it ended,
Into what inlet now that silver flood—
Oh did not, could not creep, and was not water
But the glitter of sun on stone; and if it moved,
Why, keeping its place the enormous mirror shone
East, west and north with trees and hills suspended,
And steadfast behind no doubt it followed after
If you turned to look,. .but water was on, was on.
And indeed when it thrust some long hot steely tongue,
Between the sandhills where the red clouds hung,
Into that shallow basin was once a lake
It had some look of water; those green reflections
’In long miraculous pools still left from the rain
Six months ago; why, water in all directions.


...A Verse Commentary for a Film
On the track, on the stones, on the sandhills, so near you
could touch.
And touch that molten steel! As well mistake
That cloud of eaglehawks wheeling above the plain
For seagulls, seagulls —where the white foam on the
beach...
Never that he’d plunge—but they came close that lot.
And it was quiet now and it was hot.
There were one hundred seagulls flying inland
Barred gold and black, all watching the hard ground,
They had their eye on something; but so had he.
It welled up high and glittered all around.
And was no more, no more than that great tide
Where first he saw the cloud become an island
And many an island green with many a tree
Now high in air as still came on the flood.
You had to watch it for its trick of sneaking
Between the bushes there while you weren’t looking
Or while you were; or jumping clean ten miles
In silver discs that flashed across the stones
And vanished or did not; or swelling, mounting
In such a wave that he must run at once.
Why it could come like that —but it was coming,
That rill of silver trickling down the hills,
But more but more, too many streams for counting.
Oh everywhere in one great wave was looming—
He splashed in shallow water to his knees.
Oh yet might make that island and those trees
Climb high in air if not too high for climbing
And he could drink at last in that great flood—
But had not water’s coolness, water’s taste,
O seared the tongue, ran fire through all his blood.
The hawks dropped down to watch him as he drank.
Some lost far voice cried “No!” but he was swimming
And round and round, could no way sight the coast.
Until the bright flame took him and he sank.
19. NIGHT CAMP
Sleep, traveller, under the thorn on the stones.
Somewhere on earth a man must lie down in trust
And though behind you, cold as it breathes on your hand.
Thudding like surf through the desert, foaming with dust.
Rushes the wind that moves the hills of sand,
What need of more than a bush to turn the gale?
Sleep, all’s well.
Look where the dusty blossoms shake on the thorn
Over your head, like motes in a shaft of the moon
Climbing and falling, fluttering their wings now come
Tiny white moths that call this desert home.
20. MUNGERANNIE GAP
On Mungerannie’s
Sun-blasted hill
All burning and crumbling
Blindingly still.
The purple hollow,
The worn grey scar.
The red stone slopes,
Dark and stumbling
The last man’s shadow
Falls as it gropes
For the dried sea
And the stone shell
On a burnt-out star.
21. THE SEAWEEDS
Not in our time but lost in a long dream
Grey and green and silver the saltbush floats
Its glistening leaves and bubbles between the pebbles.
The waterbush drips on the sand its purple stain.
When the old ocean fell through a hole in time
And the great monsters choked with sand in their throats
Everything perished, everything changed into fables.
The crow and the sun stare down on the bare stone plain:
Only the seaweeds, cool in each secret cell,
Saltbush and waterbush dream in the long green swell.
22. LUTHERAN MISSION
Old Father Vogelsang
How his voice rang
As he preached to the blacks
And the swans and the ducks
At Koperamanna
And Kilalpaninna.
How his sword flashed
In the-sun as he dashed
Through the quarrelling tribes
With the sword and the Word
And they knelt at his feet
On the stones in the heat
That day at the mission
At Koperamanna.
Old man, old man
Convert the sun.
He is stealing the lakes
And the sheep and the wool
And the roof and the wall:
Strike down the sun
At Koperamanna
And Kilalpaninna.
23. THE DIAMANTINA
Forty sparkling miles of Diamantina,
The shining majestic continent of water
Moving across the desert in creamy flood:
The splashing of the ducks and the glinting and skimming
of the swallows,
The pelicans turning in the air like a great white cloud,
The cattle in the green clover. Now ten years later
The grey road follows the ghost of a ripple in the mud,
The grey dead lignum rattles like withered water.
Only like a green snake writhing the uncanny lily
In shallows of dust still waits for the next flood
That, not yet born, flows down through time so slowly.
24. THE RAINMAKER
Crooked and dark
Like a thorn-tree’s shadow
While the lean dogs bark
And the humpy shivers
Joe the rainmaker
Stamps on the gibbers
Apd whirls great rain "
To his red stone meadow.
“Ooroowilaniel” I heard him cry,
“Ooroowilaniel” now low now high,
Eaglehawk feathers
Flying in a bunch
In his lean hand stretching
Like a thorn-tree’s branch,
Commanding, beseeching
The masters of weathers
With eaglehawk’s screeching.
With eaglehawk’s eye.
That the rainstone melt
In the old iron pot
And the grey storm pelt
Where the plain’s red-hot;
Till the far sky heard
And “Cloud come now”
As he knelt down low
And the lean dogs stared
By the ragbag humpy
While no rain fell
In all the country.
25. BIRDSVILLE
Three pubs to one —
So the great days fall.
And Birdsville has shrunk
Between two deserts
On a ridge in the sun
To a town so small 1
That blink but once
And the plain is bare.
From the hot red stones
And the fierce white glare
No more the drovers
Roaring drunk.
The herds from Queensland
Like wild red rivers.
All gone in a dust-storm
And time stands still
So still in the heat
Where the windsock droops
For the Flying Doctor
And barracks and mission
And low stone pub
Have the clean hard shapes
Of a frontier fortress
You can see yet
In the great wide street
The heroes, the giants
Still striding that land:
Glaring and huge
From the Simpson mirage
Leichhardt come out
Dripping red sand.
Or with groan of bullock
And screech of hub
Blind Charles Sturt
From his Stony Desert.


AFTER 20 YEARS
by BRIAN
JAMES
Twenty years had
stumbled over the ridges.
Twenty years! And no one
to know rightly where they
had gone. That is what people
mean, no doubt, when they say
“Dear me, how the time does
go! ” Or is it not so much con-
sciousness of time, as of
change . . . ?
And so it was at Templeton.
Miles of the main road had
turned into a street, with ragged-
looking side-streets running into
it. There must have been
hundreds of new houses, and no
country air upon any of them—
just suburb, raw suburb. These
were the ugly and humble dwel-
lings of the new pioneers who
had driven out the old—at so
much per foot. Nearly as much
per foot as it had been per acre
twenty years ago. That is how
Sydney does things—relentless
and greedy, her hundred arms
reaching out to grab, here a
ridge, there a flat. And now,
along the old Ridge-road where
oranges, Valencia, Washington,
Joppa and Siletta, and lemons,
sweet - rind, and mandarins.
Emperor, once scented the clear,
starry October night with their
perfume; where the pink of
peach-bloom was a gladness to
the eye when the skies were a
gentle blue in early spring; and
where such cape-weed as had
escaped the winter tuming-in
starred all the ground with
yellow blossoms —here along the
old Ridge-road were houses on
small allotments, and all such
marks and signs of civilisation.
Three garages, a picture-show, a
monstrous piece of architecture
that could only be a school, a
pub (licence transferred from
some old and overpubbed area),
and buses and taxis, and a bare,
howling square of desert known
by the highly complimentary
name of the Recreation. Even
the empty allotments had some-
thing of a national outlook upon
them; pathetic-looking stumps
and dumps of assorted tins and
bottles.
Progress had possessed itself
of the old Ridge-road. And left
no ancient landmarks ; not even
the ancient contours, nor even
the giant salmon-gum that used
to stand at the comer of
Martin’s-lane.
ERIC had said “I’ll run you
out to the old place, if you’d
care to.”
And Jack said “Um! Yes!
Perhaps! I don’t know really.
And yet”
“I only thought. Jack, you
know, I’ve never been there,
and you’re always telling me
about it. I thought you might-
well, you know.”
So they went. Eric had a nice
new car. Jack hadn’t a car of
any sort. His principal gains
from all those years had been
lumbago intermittent and
bronchitis permanent. He
possessed these rather than they
possessed him, and he spoke of
them possessively: “My
lumbago. My bronchitis.” As
though he had bought them
selectively, or had the sole
patent-rights to them.
They were bowling along the
old Ridge-road— not called that
any more, but some street or
other with a highfalutin name
that was quite incongruous—and
Jack stubbornly refused to take
any cognisance of it. This was
the Ridge-road, however low it
had sunk.
“You sold the place, Jack.
I’ve often wondered”
“I’ve told you often enough.”
“Yes, I know. But then you
—what I mean is, you were so
attached, and all that sort of
thing.”
“No —it was a simple case of
had-to. I wanted the money,
that’s all. If you have one thing
you can’t have another. It just
depends,”
“Yes?”
“On what you want most.”
“But all the hard work, the
slogging and bullocking, you got
little enough for that”-
“Oh yes, I did. I got the hard
work. That was something,”
He looked at a space between the
houses at the western skyline,
Tomah and Wilson, Hay and
King George. At least, they
hadn’t changed. And then he
said; “Real work is never
reckoned in terms of money. Is
it, now?”
But Eric didn’t know. No
one quite knows the answer to
that. And, anyway. Jack, what
with his lumbago and bronchitis,
was a bit crotchety and cranky
these days.
“And prices, too,” went on
Jack rather inconsistently,
“When I think of the damned
prices we got! You couldn’t live
on them. You know what you
pay for passions now —tuppence,
thrippence, fourpence each! /
used to get half-a-crown a box
—and cartage and commission
out of that. I was lucky to get
fourpence out of the whole
damned box —for the simple
pleasure of growing them!
Same with Washingtons—five-
pence each now —for good ones,
that is. I’d get four-bob for the
whole case, if I was lucky! A
count of sixty! Work it out for
yourself. What I mean to say
is—the whole thing was rigged,
stacked ...”
Eric nodded, perfunctorily,
and dodged two small boys and
a dog who were crossing the
street..
“And the melons —I told you
of the melons, didn’t I?”
Eric was a decent soul. He
said “What was that, Jack?”
“An acre and a bit. You
never saw such a crop. New
ground, no weeds and just a bit
sour. Grey Monarchs and
Klecklies. Hardly one of them
under twenty pounds—Grey
Monarchs, anyway —and plenty
up to forty. They gave me two-
bob a dozen for them at the
markets. Two-bob! I lost on
sending them in. Two-bob!
And then I got a brainwave and
made quite a lot of money out
of the rest of the crop.”
“Yes, Jack?”
“I gave them away! ”
Eric chuckled obligingly.
“That’s what I did. Just gave
them away. Come-along-and-
help-yourself sort of thing. It
paid handsomely.”
Again Eric chuckled. He had
been hearing of those melons for
years. They were just as much
a malady as the lumbago and
bronchitis, and prized accord-
ingly. Also, Eric appreciated
keenly that Jack was still a
farmer at heart. Jack wasn’t
grumbling; he was merely
asserting a farmer’s prerogative.
THE houses thinned out now
—became sporadic, and the
new places had a more or less
exploratory appearance about
them, something of the daring
venturesomeness of the New
Pioneers. Patches of orchard,
too, came into view. Not very
good orchards—neglected, grass-
grown, sickly yellow in the
leaves, dead and dried fingers,
dead and dried arms, through
the leaves, but with shapely fruit
for all that. Patches of scrub
here and there —not much of it,
and hacked and hewn into,
apologetic-looking scrub, saying
clearly enough “We don’t
belong. Not now. We are afraid
we are intruding.” Estate-agents’
signs on huge hoardings and
boardings: “Clinch and Co. Will
sell these allotments.” “Pinch
and Harvey, for farmlets.”
“Stitch, Ridley and Co,” And
so on. Beckoning fingers, all of
them, for more of the New
Pioneers.
Jack grunted and said “Um!”
“What’s that, Jack?”
“Oh, nothing. I was just
thinking of those agents. That’s
all.”
“Those signs”——
“Yes, those signs. Ah, well;
they can have it.”
Eric said nothing. He under-
stood that Jack was reaching the
point of handing the bloody
country back to the blacks.
There is always something of a
sacred rite about handing the
bloody country back to the
blacks, though the sanctity of it
is not so apparent in the words
used to do it. It is not well to
disturb one in that most satisfy-
ing of all pessimisms.
The estate-agent signs began
to thin out as the houses had
done. And the orchards looked
up, fresher, brighter and more
fruitful, as though the latest pests
and diseases hadn’t reached them
yet. Windbreaks of pine here
and there, dark and sombre,
raised their eyebrows over citrus
and peach. But distant ridges
were often bare where once grew
that thin hard cover of sandstone
country —the white scribbly-
gums, the stringies and blood-
woods, iron-trees and yellow-box
and the rest. Hard and uncom-
promising is the sandstone
ridge, and yet as delicate in its
poor shallow soil and tough
stunted growth as a hothouse.
They passed the store. Jack
wouldn’t have known it for the
old-time “J. M. Phelan, General
Store.” Four times as big and
new in paint and much glass.
It seemed to be waiting for the
New Pioneers. In fact it was a
New Pioneer itself. J. M.
Phelan apparently had gone,
failed to catch up with Progress
perhaps. Instead it was, in big
flaunting letters, “Spender and
Co.”
“Too many co.’s now,” said
Jack reflectively.
“What’s that?”
“The co.’s, Eric. All co.’s now.
Haven’t you noticed? The
garages, the estate-agents, and
now old Phelan’s store. All
co.’s. And it’s not the right word
either.”
, “No?”
“No, it isn’t. It should be
‘gangs.’ Though no doubt it
means pretty much the same
thing.”
It was a bitter thought, and
Eric didn’t comment upon it.
“On the left there, Eric. We
turn down there. And—and—
I could have guessed it —old
Alfred’s place is gone! Used to
be at the corner.”
“Alfred?”
“You know. Alfred the Dane.
Often told you of him. Black-
smith and general genius. Lived
on beer and coffee, and worked
about 30 hours a day. A real
man.”
“Yes, that’s right. I re-
member.”
“And you take the next one
to the right. Just past the big
bunch of turpentines . .. Gawd,
but they’re gone, too! Wonder
who on earth —but here we are —
Bottlebrush-road we used to call
it . . . suppose they’ve changed
the name like everything
else . • . Here we are —to the
right, and a blinking new culvert,
too! What do you know about
that! That’s Wiseman’s place
on the left now. It looks all
right. Next door is my old place
—Gibberagong, I used to call
it —but I guess they’d never keep
a name like that, not they!
That’s Jammie Wilson’s right in
front of us—-on the right . . .
And, ’struth! Look at that! ”
“What’s that?”
“At that corner-post—that
chap standing there. Pull up!”
“You know him?”
“Know him! I should say.
That’s Wiseman. The last time
I saw him, twenty years ago if
it’s a day, he was standing there.”
IT was Wiseman. Or else a
1 most remarkable optical
illusion. Wiseman, faded waist-
coat and all. Wiseman and his
black trousers faded to grey.
Wiseman and his gumboots,
Wiseman and his pruning-shears
suspended by a clip to his belt.
Wiseman and his dinted felt hat,
thrust back on his head for the
better pursuit of argument,
moralising or local scandal.
Wiseman, and not a day older,
for all the twenty years that had
stumbled over the ridges. A bit
younger if anything, though that
might have been imagination.
But the grey eyes certainly
looked clearer, the clipped
moustache looked neater ; the
neck less wrinkled; the face less
seamed. It was Wiseman all
right, giving the lie to the twenty
years. They, and not he, were
the illusion.
Wiseman’s eye took in the car
appraisingly, and his mind ticked
off and considered the possi-
bilities. An estate-agent? A
Government official of some
sort? Someone making
inquiries . . . ? And then Wise-
man shrewdly decided to wait
and see. So he waited, non-
committally, with the resolve
that whatever came of it he
wouldn’t be caught napping.
He watched Jack’s lumbering
figure extricate itself from the
car and waddle stiffly on a stick
towards him. A very stout
yellow stick, and a fitting tribute
to “my lumbago,”
“Good-day!” said Wiseman in
the neutrality of being armed
and ready in any case.
“Mr. Wiseman, isn’t it?”
This in as ingratiating tones as
possible.
Wiseman ticked this over —
fellow must be trying to sell
something farm machinery
perhaps, or a new fertiliser or
some new brand of dolomite.
Or he might be from the Egg
Board, or the Citrus Board, or
the Passion Fruit Board, or the
Potato Board, or the Water
Melon Board, or any one of the
137 boards that had grown up
in the last ten years or so.
Unlike the cape-weed, the
boards had not been ploughed
in. Nor had they been sprayed
and fumigated like the orchard
trees. Still, hardly a board-
man ; a bit too old and shape-
less ; and apparently too polite.
So Wiseman said in the level
tones that give nothing away and
keep a terrible lot in reserve
“I’m Wiseman.” Which carried
the full implication, “What of
it! Just what of it, now!”
“You don’t remember me, Mr.
Wiseman?”
Wiseman took another good
look, and took in again the
spanking new car, and Eric still
at the wheel. Mentally he
turned back the furrows of
memory without result. “You
have,” he said, “the advantage
of me.” But it was strictly to
be understood, just the same,
that no one was taking him at
a disadvantage. In fact, it was
Jack who felt at a disadvantage-
in not being recognised.
“It’s Jack—Jack Newton—
don’t you remember? Next
door.”
Jack floundered a little. It is
always disconcerting to apologise
for the years, as it were, and to
identify an altered and unshapely
bulk with the name that hasn’t
changed.
And Wiseman gave no sign,
perhaps because he felt some
deception was being practised
upon him.
Jack laughed rather nervously.
“Jack—Jack Newton —you know
—old Tully and his boys—the
bungally—and all that, you
know.”
\ \ /ISEMAN remembered now.
VV “By ghost! And if it isn’t! ”
They shook hands. Wiseman’s
face relaxed into a smile that
had barely a trace of cunning in
it. “By God, Jack, fancy not
knowing you straight off.
Though I’ll say this: I knew you
all right, but it was the difficulty
of placing you, I knew you
well enough, but it was just that
when-and-where sort of thing.”
“You look well, Harry.”
“I’m not. Not really well.
Jack.”
“Sorry to hear that, Harry.”
“Far from well, Jack. It’s
worry—bundle of nerves, as the
saying goes. Edge of a nervous
breakdown.”
Jack looked sympathetic, and
the not - overgenuine feeling
softened Wiseman. “It’s the
prices of our stuff, and the
blasted carrier, and those agents,
and the neighbors.” And then,
for a good measure of woes,
"And the Government.”
“Otherwise, Harry?”
“Otherwise, Jack, I am as well
as can be expected, which is not
saying too much, though. And
you? You have changed a bit.
Put on a bit of flesh, and”—-
The “and” conveyed the
glance at Jack’s stick.
“Feeling the years, Harry.
Lumbago and bronchitis. Other
things, too, as like as not.”
Wiseman dismissed the ail-
ments somewhat airily. “Ah
well, that’s what I’ve always said.
If it isn’t one thing that gets you,
it’s another.” Obviously he con-
sidered lumbago and bronchitis
as very small things to complain
of alongside a lot of thieving
agents, a rookstakes carrier, a
hostile set of neighbors and a
futile Government. Then he
recalled: “Bronchitis, now —it
can be a pretty terrible thing,
too. An old auntie of mine had
it —and had it. Down in
Balmain that was. But she had
asthma, too, and, I believe, a
growth, which the doctors didn’t
take much notice of. The
doctors said ‘Get her away—
change of climate —Balmain’s
killing her.’ ”
“Did they? I mean, did they
take her away?”
“They did. Took her away,
up the mountains.”
“Did it —did she get any
relief?”
(Continued on page 24)


Give Yourself u Break
WITH B.H.P.
: a
:
:: ■
■
mm
.H
liii
i
H wm
aHml
mm
m
IHii
H
'-•Xv: •>/ v •';' ;; ; . : !l;
Blast furnace , Newcastle Steel W orks.
ismsSSSS^’m
mm
m
■■■ ..
MACHINE SHOP
mm
mmmmm
m
LABORATORY
m
m m
; •:
mmsm
TECHNICAL COLLEGE
The Career Opportunity
: : h . '£■-'• ■ ■
ant
-
CTEEL is a vital, Australia-wide
industry, continually expanding
and creating new jobs and chances
of promotion. Under B.H.P.’s Staff
Training Scheme, you’ll have every
opportunity through helpful train-
ing courses to win success and
security.
★ Planned career training,
both theoretical and
practical.
★ Refund of tuition fees for
professional and other
qualifications.
★ Study incentives.
★ Excellent conditions.
Call , ivrite or phone the Manager of your nearest works or branch notv.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 422 Little Collins Street - MU 8001
NEWCASTLE: P.O. Box 196, Newcastle - M 1231
WHYALLA: P.O. Box 21, Whyalla - Why. 211
SYDNEY: 28 O'Connell Street - B 0520
BRISBANE: 108 Creek Street -
ADELAIDE: 28 Franklin Street -
PERTH: 168 St. George's Terrace
FA 1041
LA 1504
- B 9357
Steel Works: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W. Shipyard: WHYALLA,
S.A. Branches: SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, and PERTH.
v
«"C
>«. sli*- «3
raj ne es and en
appren ti ees A n , , blnee ring
be Mder 1 9 3 m »«
undertaken r to
10 Metallurgy , u equiVa '
mec hanical 0 f ’ f emis %,
a , 4 e ,e eCtrica]
Here are j cenfr es.
" . adva ncement°
Positions when ° se «ior
your training } ° U com plete
a Ppoint m e„ t nts V
trainees wiII * commercial
c ommpre;„) trained j n
Jai Wort, wifi/., Se °re
° f P«n.o tion i 6 0i, ' ec <
l njof Positio " ‘ i,e r) >oro
m these


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
In the sudden calm that always follows
Race Week the party on the Nieuw
Holland for the Lady Mayoress’s Relief
Fund was a pleasant diversion. Against
an embankment of tulips and spring-
blossom the Lady Mayoress welcomed
about 200 guests, with Mrs. R. J, F.
Boyer and Mrs. C. M. Guiney as her
left-hand, right-hand. Tire guests in-
cluded Mrs. L. Larbalestier, Mrs. W. V.
Whitta, Mrs. A. Redler, Mrs. Keith
Morris, Mrs. W. H. Oong and Mrs.
P. D. Hills, the Lady Mayoress-elect.
Resolutions to slim, made after watching
Sydney’s mannequins parade the decks,
died at the sight of the afternoon-
tea’s rich profusion of cakes —like nothing
this Letter has ever seen, except the
birthday-party she once dreamt about
when she was eight.
☆ ☆ ☆
Never have Sydney streets seen so many
smiling faces as when the new inner-
city bus offered free rides on its first day.
Passengers chatted gaily, people on the
pavements waved and grinned, while the
bus ducked up and down the streets in
the oddest way—like a spy evading
capture. It was all quite delightful and
put people in a good mood for at least
half an hour.
&
When Sydney’s charming hostess, Mrs.
Florence Taylor, entertained 36 women
friends to dinner on Sunday night at her
Vaucluse home, she introduced a novel
way of enabling her guests to meet each
other. The dinner was served in three
different rooms, and after the fish course
each alternate diner took her serviette
and glass and changed over to another
table. This was repeated after the chicken
had beep eaten, so that by the end of
the dinner everyone had had a change of
neighbor.
Afterwards there was a musical pro-
gramme by. rJis-.; Ella McKenzie and Mr.
Warwick McKenzie, and Mrs. J. W. M.
Eaton read “The White Cliffs of Dover.”
The guests were members of the women’s
branch of the Australian-American
Association, of which Mrs Taylor is
president, and included Lady Mackay,
Mrs. Harald Bowden, Mrs. E. Lashmar,
Mrs. Elwood Haas, Mrs. Roland Foster,
Mrs. E. Scorfield and Miss Margaret
Gelling.
☆ ☆ ☆
The mother of Henry Lawson was
honored when the new block of Housing
Commission flats at North Bondi was
named “Louisa Lawson Place” on Satur-
day. Louisa Lawson was a truly remark-
able woman. One of Australia’s earliest
workers for women’s rights, she was also
a poet, public speaker, publisher (it was
she who printed her son’s first book)
and for 17 years she was editor of the
magazine “Dawn.” Perhaps because she
herself had lived in a tent during her
early married life, she interested herself
in housing problems, so it is fitting that
her name should be thus commemorated.
☆ ☆ ☆
Patty Lou Haas, who is now with the
American Embassy in Brussels, received
a large bouquet of flowers from the men
on the staff the first day she appeared.
Having signed-on on a Friday she was
absent, naturally, on Saturday and Sun-
day. Monday was a holiday, American
Labor Day, Tuesday she was ill. On
Wednesday the flowers were presented
with a card addressed “To the victim of
overwork,”
☆ ☆ ☆
When you see “Castle of Deception”
at the Metropolitan Theatre, look closely
at the stage-setting, which, at first glance,
presents a vision of manorial splendor,
but gradually reveals itself as an accumu-
lation of fakes. The play is called “a
museum-piece in bogus verse,” and the
theme is that the fake is often better than
the truth. Robin Lovejoy, the producer
and designer of the set, says that, although
all stage-settings depend largely on
illusion, this one had to be doubly so.
One example of his application of this
are the colored Venetian lamps which on
close inspection reveal themselves as the
sort that are used on the railways. The
vases should be studied, also the pictures
on the walls. The whole effect is very
clever indeed,
☆ ☆ ☆
Members of the South Wahroonga
group of the N.S.W. Society for Crippled
Children have been flat-out stitching
pretty lily-of-the-valley leaf-green
11 beds - bas b «" built togely by
the efforts of the Opportunity Shop Com-
wh° lowa& it.
☆ ☆ ft
~ . . . , , „
, Matron Shaw, \yho retires shortly from
r P ost 35 guiding-spirit of the Crown
treet Womens Hospital, was guest-of-
l on ,? r S iv en on Wednesday
die | ac | es R°Y a l Lmpire Society,
Lady Anderson welcomed Matron Shaw
arK | Presented to her a posy of mauve
f . wdl * e ° r< ~. • These, with the roses,
lupins &ncl lilies which decorated the
rooms, had been grown by the hostesses
for the afternoon, Mrs. W. Herman Slade
and Mrs. Harry Twigden.
#
This is mt , Fol daughler of
, he A R Fo , of D J enisto ‘ w ,/ 0
recenll her engagement to
Dr. Peter Anderson, of Burwood. Joy’s
ring is a,solitaire diamond set in platinum.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
The Overseas League is making a drive
against Communism and is enrolling
schoolchildren in the cause. Major
Chapman, president of the league, says
that there are already 800 schoolchildren
enrolled in the cause and that interest in-
creases every day. By the way, the senior
vice-president of this league, Aubrey
Halloran, said recently that he had been
described 35 years ago by this Letter as
“that irrepressible young man.” Well,
that only goes to prove how right this
Letter is. Irrepressible is certainly the
word for Aubrey.
☆ ☆ ☆
Stage and radio were well represented
at the Independent’s opening night of
“Captain Carvallo,” to judge by the ring-
ing tones and the glossy accents to be
heard on every side in the foyer. Stal-
warts of the stage Marcel Wattel and
Kevin Brennan were there, also charm-
ing Diana Davidson, who tied her hair
in a bow at the back and made that inter-
mediate stage between long and short hair
most attractive. Regular first-nighters
included the Erik Langkers, the Emil
Merciers and the Edward Howells
(who have been Fred and Maggie
Everybody for so long that people
now say “There are Fred and
Maggie” instead of “There are the Ted
Howells”).
☆ ☆ ☆
And we think our fashionable expres-
sions are modern! In the 18th century,
according to his London Journal, James
Boswell was speaking of a coffee-house
as “Quite a place.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Couldn’t help laughing at Mrs, Florence
Taylor’s comments on the hours of work
and recognition therefor enjoyed by men
and women respectively. Men do 40
hours a week, women 80. Men win the
golf trophies, etc. Women bask in their
reflected glory. So she, who is a member
of the Master Builders’ Association, is
going to present a trophy to the wife of
a member, for a change, “A fiancee or
sweetheart won’t do,” she says. “No,
it has to be a wife,” and adds aside,
“That ought to bring some of them up
to scratch.”
Funds are to be raised for a memorial
to Miss Isabel Fidler, who was tutor to
women students at Sydney University
from 1900 to 1939. A committee of
25 has been formed, with Mrs. G. P.
Stuckey as chairwoman, and Mrs. R.
Peden, Miss M. Henson and Miss A.
Scobie as executive members. The exact
nature of the memorial has yet to be
decided, one of the most attractive sug-
gestions being a memorial flower-garden
and sundial to be presented to the Uni-
versity.
MELBOURNE
Any ideas women had of wealing
pretty summery dresses to the Caulfield
Cup were smartly reproved by the
weather. It was a day for smart suits,
though they were worn with gay hats,
unusual accessories and the usual lily-
of-the-valley spray in the lapel.
After the presentation of the Caulfield
Cup to one of the joint-owners of Pesha-
war, acting V.A.T.C. chairman Dr. Ken
McLean and Mrs. McLean had a large
afternoon-tea party in the committee’s
dining-room.
The Governor-General was accom-
panied by Lady McKell, who wore a
jacket-suit of forest-green with a grey-fox
collar, and a straw sailor-hat. The
Governor of Victoria, Sir Dallas Brooks,
with Lady Brooks and members of his
personal staff, were there, Lady Brooks
choosing a suit of mist-blue tweed and
a large matching felt hat. Jane Kirwan-
Taylor, who accompanied Lady Brooks,
wore a steel-grey coat topped with a
corn-gold straw hat. Mrs, McLean wore
a full-skirted coat of navy-blue taffeta
and her platter-straw hat was in the same
tonings.
Among guests at this tea-party were
the Earl and Countess of Elgin, Viscount
and Viscountess Bruce and Mr. and Mrs.
J. de Blois Wack. The Wacks are from
the U.S.A. for the spring racing and own
the A.J.C. Derby winner. Deep River,
a V.R.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup
hope. Among the smartest ensembles
was one worn by Mrs. Lionel Newton —
a frock of anthracite-grey alpaca featur-
ing a very full skirt. With it was worn
an upturned straw hat of parma violet
tonings, and the fine mauve veil was
drawn over the face and knotted under
the chin. Eye-catching was the large
gold hunter-watch which hung from the
belt of Mrs. Len Buxton’s natty grey suit.
Eye-catching also were the gray tartan
taffeta gloves she wore.
There was an endless variety of hats to
be seen round the members’ enclosure.
The drooping “Garbo” felts, cartwheels,
the “shovel” type, bicornes and tri-
cornes, half-hats and the tiny cap
fashioned of leaves and flowers and, of
course, the “flower-pot.”
Mrs. Bill McGowan pinned a red rose
in her umbrella, but her black hat, worn
with a smart black suit, had a white- and
black-spotted rose perched at one side.
Her sister, Mrs. Leo Curtis, pepped up her
black suit with a very wide taffeta scarf,
striped in dark-grey and white. Mrs. Leo
Guest sported a half-hat of white plush
with the entire crown covered with spark-
ling opalescent sequins. Citron-yellow
with black and grey was a popular color-
teaming, and there were full-length
coats of tangerine, emerald-green, violet
and scarlet. These coats, with gay hats
and colorful umbrellas, provided the
brightness to offset the grey of the sky.
# if, if,
Caulfield Cup night was gay. At the
Comedy the Kiwis opened their season
to a packed house. The dressing on stage
was much more colorful than that of the
audience ; for most women donned black
and wore ballerinas or short theatre
frocks.
Mrs. D, S. Lockhart was one of the ex-
ceptions ; she chose a formal gown of
chiffon in petunia-pink tonings with a
circular black stripe adding drama to
the pink. Marjorie Head’s modified
crinoline gown was fashioned of pastel-
pink lace.
Thoroughly enjoying the show were
Mesdames Leo Guest and Leo Curtis,
Mrs. Alan Southey, Mrs. Hannibal King
—who was with Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Smith—and Mrs. John Bates. Mrs. K. F.
Waghorne’s smart black crepe frock was
livened with clusters of glittering sequins
on the bodice, and with her black crepe
gown Mrs. Frank Martin wore a vivid
green velvet stole.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Grimwade and her committee
held a successful dinner-dance at the
Delphic, the proceeds for the Isobel
Henderson Free Kindergarten. Lady
Grimwade, accompanied by Sir Russell
and party of friends, kept an eye on pro-
ceedings wearing a lovely garnet-red faille
gown which featured the new tiered skirt.
Lady Snow, a member of the committee,
chose a ballerina frock in pretty grey
tonings with a leaf pattern of white break-
ing the surface of the organza. Mrs.
Ross Grey Smith, also on the organising
committee, wore a graceful white floral
satin gown. Mrs. Lionel Grimwade,
who shed her apron only when she
danced, worked valiantly all night in a
royal-blue lace gown. Ticket-secretary
Lady Clarke wore a sweeping gown of
sage-green faille with an overskirt banded
in black velvet to match the strapless
black velvet bodice.
Those who dined and danced included
the Norman Bennetts, Mr. and Mrs. A. G.
Silk —she wearing a short black organza
frock with the deep hemline outlined with
white Guipure lace —Mrs. Eric Scammell
in bouffant black tulles, Mrs. Hal Watt in
green velvet for the stole which covered
her black gown. White tulle with a tight-
fitting black velvet jacket was the choice
of Mrs. Geoff Grimwade; Mrs. Harold
Holt’s lovely short, full-skirted ballerina
was of white lace; pink satin slippers
matched the pink satin bodice topping a
white tulle skirt worn by Mi s Keith Lay-
cock. Mrs. Keith Krohn donned ger-
anium-red chiffons for the dance and
Wyn Kellow wore black faille and lace.
Feature of the night’s entertainment
was “Scobie” Breasley’s crooning, and,
not to be outdone, trainer Theo Lewis,
unaccompanied by the orchestra, warbled
a little off key but pleasantly.
& V V
Vivienne Betty Stephens, organ ?
secretary of Royal Melbourne. Hospiu.
Auxiliaries, is the elder daughter of Mrs.
Carl Stephens, of Malvern, and the late
Dr. Stephens. Vivienne, who recently
arrived back from a world tour, on which
she visited many hospitals, was most im-
pressed by the Children’s Hospital in
Bergen, Norway, one in Basle, Switzer-
land, and some famous London hospitals.
Two hundred guests arrived at the Rip-
ponlea home of Mrs. Tim Jones for the
dinner-party she usually gives after the
Caulfield Cup. This time, when guests
arrived they found the youngest daughter
of the house, Louise, receiving with her
mother. Louise has just announced her
engagement to Kevin Warne Smith, and
this was a pre-wedding party for the
couple, who will be quietly married a few
weeks hence.
Mrs. Jones wore a slim black-lace
gown which broke into fullness at the
ankles with a flaring flounce. Louise
chose a simple ankle-length frock of
white-and-black patterned linen. Eldest
daughter, Mrs. Ivor Carolan, wearing a
strapless ballerina frock of black and
silver lame, shared in hostessing the party,
and among the guests was Wanda Shilli-
day, whose choice was a pastel-pink
brocade gown. Her mother wore dove-
grey with a matching stole. Yvonne
Webster had a cluster of pink French
roses on one shoulder of her green-and-
black-striped tie-silk frock; Mrs. Lorn
Greville’s attractive gown was of silver-
grey faille ; gunmetal French crepe, with
the fitted bodice highlighted with blue and
rose-pink sequins, was worn by Mrs.
James McGauran ; black lace over amber
satin was the choice of Mrs. George
Weir.
Mrs. John Morrisey (now on her way
back to Capella, Central Queensland),
who came to this city for her sister
Betty’s marriage to Robert Lane, chose
a lovely gown of fragile black lace and
was with Mrs. Robert Lane, Senior, whose
graceful gown was of black velvet. The
graceful black jersey dinner-gown Mrs.
W. H. Horsfall wore had black bugle-
beads trimming the deep round neck and
cuffs of the long-sleeved bodice.


Cheap New Poetry Booklet:
Twelve Australian Poems
including poetry by Judith Wright,
Vincent Buckley and lan Mudie.
Price 2/6 (3*d. postage) from
“THE AUSTROVERT,”
16 Rix St., Glen Iris, Vic.
Missing Friend
TO REGINALD DAVID DUNSTAN for-
merly of Warrnambool in the State of Vic-
toria.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ISOBEL EDITH DUNSTAN has instituted
divorce proceedings against you for a
divorce on the ground of desertion UN-
LESS you enter an appearance at the
Prothonotary’s office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the 15th day of
November 1952 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs. —WEIGALL & CROWTHER,
Melbourne, Solicitors and Agents for J. S.
TAIT & CO., Solicitors, Warrnambool.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH GORDON SAVAGE late
of Newtown in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that AILS A
MURIEL SAVAGE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2781 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and that
during three years and upwards you have
been an habitual drunkard and habitually
been guilty of cruelty towards the Peti-
tioner If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 16th December 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from W. O. CURRIE, Solicitor, 11c
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILHELM FRIEDRICH HOHNBERG
late of Forbes in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that DORIS MAY
HOHNBERG has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3025 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 16th December
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from W. O. CURRIE,
Solicitor, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MERVYN CLYDE ENGLERT late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ALICE
MARGARET'MARY CAMERON ENGLERT
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1943 of
1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 29th day of December 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS
& Co., Solicitors, 18-20 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LESLIE LLOYD McMILLAN late of
Pilliga in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that THORA ANNE
McMILLAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2912 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section (912) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 16th day of
December 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
J. MANN & K. H. WILSON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 84 Pitt-street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROSS CARLYLE EVERINGHAM for-
merly of Mount Charlton in the State
of Queensland. —-TAKE NOTICE that
ISABEL NANCY EVERINGHAM has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 1855 of 1952 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
31st day of December 1952 and obtain a
copy of the Petition free of charge from
MESSRS. DAVID S. DIND & CO., Soli-
citors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Captain Carvallo”
Australian actors don’t usually
do very well in English light-
comedies, which call for a
wicked sparkle only to be
acquired by being born an
Englishman. But Dennis
Cannan’s “Captain Carvallo” at
Sydney Independent is thought-
fully set nowhere in particular in
Europe, and so if Walter
Sullivan’s performance of a
military Don Juan is pleasantly
sturdy rather than glittering the
comedy still gets along very well.
Robert Levis’s amorous and
bibulous baron was too
grotesque, at any rate in his first
drunken entry, and gave a
strange impression of being some
indeterminate age between six
and 60. Janne Coghlan’s maid-
servant, again especially in her
opening scene when she waltzed
with the broom, also fell into
caricature. The playwright him-
self, after two acts of bright
comedy, made a mistake in
turning serious in his third act.
On the surface the gay-
enough play is about enemy
troops occupying a neighboring
country; but fundamentally,
like all successful comedies since
the beginning of time, it is about
people getting into the wrong
bedrooms and hiding in cup-
boards.
Madge Ryan, Robert Levis
and Maurice Travers are admir-
able ; John Salew is an actor
with a genuine body of comedy
in his personality ; and, when the
stage (and radio) adolescent is
nearly always grotesque and
effeminate, it was pleasant to see
John Parker’s Private Gross so
natural and robust. Production,
Haydee Seldon; set by
Desmonde Downing.
❖ ❖ *
“The Castle of Deception”
The bright idea is the enemy
of art; it hinders free develop-
ment, as though the picture were
at war with the frame. So it is
not surprising to find Metro-
politan players a little lost in a
play written in “bogus verse”
about a rich collector of fakes
(Nigel Lovell), living in a fake
castle, with a fake mistress —she
is really his wife —(Patricia
Schumann), a fake butler (Robert
Moore), and fake guests: a
young painter of fake Rem-
brandts (Bill Bain), a fake
Russian prince (David Nettheim)
and a fake prostitute (Edith
Schreiber).
The collector’s ambition is to
get a fake Rembrandt accepted
by the National Gallery; but
the main theme of the play is his
effort to pass off the young
painter’s former model, who has
blossomed into an actress, as a
prostitute, and his interest in
how the young painter will take
the deception. Altogether the
play makes an enjoyable even-
ing ; it is indeed one of the
“plays of a more generally-
popular type” which are
promised in the programme.
What deficiencies it has must
be shared by author and actors:
such a play, surely, should be
done easily and lightly; the
copyists tended rather to realise
the parts they were acting than
to mock them with gaiety and
grace ; and here, no doubt, the
author was at fault: far too
often his parody of the modern
verse-play turned French pastry
into suet-pudding.
♦♦♦ *t* ❖
Wirth’s
Up to the minute —in fact, a
week or so before it the
Greatest Show on Earth has
turned up at its old stamping-
ground, Olympia, Melbourne,
replete with all its old features
except Mr. Phil Wirth, who has
exchanged the sawdust of the
circus-ring for another kind of
sawdust by purchasing a pub in
Townsville.
Mr. Wirth’s place has been
taken by an impersonal voice
announcing the imminent arrival
of the various items, which, on
the opening evening, included
the first appearance in Australia
of that human colossus Sulson
and his five male lions. Mr.
Sulson cracked his whip, poked
his lions, and the noble-looking
beasts with the enormous heads
and the lithe flanks mounted
barrels and walked tightropes.
Miss Zetta Lee inserts her
fragile body underneath 25 tons
of elephant. The teeth of Mr,
Frank Doyle support a partner
while their owner hangs by one
heel or toe head-downwards
from a* trapeze 40ft. in mid-air.
Other skilful people are Ben
Blue and Yvonne from Denmark,
who do everything the most
expert juggler can do while sit-
ting astride one-wheel cycles,
and the Lepp Duo from Paris,
who intertwine their limbs and
bodies until it is impossible to
tell from a ringside seat whose
legs are whose or whose head is
whose; in fact, who’s who.
The most graceful act is Mile,
Ingha, a glamorous little lady
who figures on the broad
back of Pasha, a beautifully
‘proportioned white horse.
❖ ❖ +>
Virgil
At Melbourne Princess, nightly
and at the usual matinees, Virgil,
an American magician, is per-
forming feats of magic which
justify the adjective amazing, in
the ornate and mysterious sur-
roundings of the Indian jungle,
the Imperial Palace at Peiping,
the harem of Ben Ali Bey, the
planet Mars and the Magicana
glamor-girls.
The present commentator was
lost in wonder at him, especially
the strenuous efforts he made to
get rid of his wife by shooting
her through the stomach, sawing
her in half and disintegrating
her entirely by an atomic-bomb
explosion. There was no doubt
about the first two methods. A
ribbon was tied to the bullet
that was fired and it went right
through the lady. In the second
case, not only did Mr. Virgil
divide Mrs. Virgil into two
roughly equal parts, but walked
between them.
❖ +♦♦ ♦>
Joseph Post
Joseph Post added several
inches to his musical stature by
his conducting of an extra-
ordinarily moving performance
of Elgar’s “Dream of Gerontius”
at Melbourne Town Hall by the
Philharmonics, the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra and one of
the best lots of soloists heard
there for a long time. Every
aspect of Elgar’s passionate ren-
dering of Newman’s poem of the
melancholy saint was brought
out in Ronald Dowd’s expressive
tenor, and Miss Deegan gave
the Angel a beautifully toned
soprano.
Alan Eddy’s intelligence and
his bass baritone gave an added
richness, and the choristers were
never better than in the grisly
choruses of devils. The orchestra
played in proper oratorio fashion
in the Elgar, and its strings did
justice to a concertino composed
by Sydney conductor Eugene
Goossens.
*• *t*
Suburban Shows
The Woollahra (Sydney) Play-
house represents an attempt to
form a community theatre with
the backing of the local muni-
cipal council. The group “pro-
poses to present a series of plays
ranging from farce to classical
drama... .in a sincere attempt to
attract more people to live-artist
shows.” It is a pity that it did
not select a superior offering
to “Go West Young Man,” a
farce by Maurice Francis, for its
opening attraction at Monash
Hall, Rose Bay.
This farce, which has to do
with the adventures of an
English go-getter who becomes
the temporary owner of an Aus-
tralian sheep-station, rattles along
a familiar road in a great hurry,
and makes up for its lack of wit
with a great deal of noise and
shouting.
Reginald Goldsworthy, Joan
Landor and Peter Woodruff
played their parts with spirit.
More satisfying to the intel-
ligence and a far better perform-
ance was the Kuringai Theatre
Guild’s production of Somerset
Maugham’s “The Letter” at
Killara. This little group, which
supports itself, while it does not
always hit the mark at least sets
out to present plays with some
thought in them.
Producer John Craig should
have got more out of his players.
Clarice Mason as Leslie Crosbie
needed a little more intensity to
be convincing. Best perform-
ance of the evening was Mark
Stafford as Howard Joyce. This
group will play “The Man Who
Came to Dinner” in December,
W. E. F.
“Blue Heaven”
This three-act “romantic
musical comedy” by Irene
Tucker, put on by Australian
National Theatre Productions at
Sydney Y.W.C.A., set in the
Blue Mountains and at Darling
Point, is feebleish in both plot
and dialogue, but the music is
a comparative turn-up for the
books ; it has a lilting quality,
and some of the melodies are
quite listenable. One number in
the second act, “Glamor,” sung
and danced with spirit by Terry
Day, who improved as the night
went on, is quite attractive.
The music, though, had to
carry a terrific burden, for it
was dispensed by a weirdly-
balanced orchestra: One upper
string, one double bass, one
woodwind, two brass, percussion
and the piano!
Comedian of the piece Warren
Rigney has an easy stage
presence, and could improve.
Talkies
“Francis Goes t-o West
Point”
When Donald O’Connor, who,
acting on the tip from his saga-
cious friend, saves from a
saboteur’s explosives the hush-
hush defence factory at which
he works and gets a cadetship
to West Point, Francis the mule
drifts along. His tutorship of his
modestly-endowed boss, and in
particular his uncanny know-
ledge of football tactics, all aired
in a calm, philosophical drawl, is
good for hatfuls of laughs. The
photographic section earns
several donk-laughs for the ways
in which it avoided close-ups of
Francis in the act of oratory.
Anyway, the general effect of
head-noddings and lip-writhings
worthily simulates a donk during
speech, or as near to it as can
be imagined. It says much for
Frahcis’s beguiling ways and
penetrating snippets of wisdom,
plus a crack at his own sterile
state, that even large slabs of
American grid football lose their
usual benumbing influence.
*** +> ❖
“Lovely to Look At”
It has long been an axiom in
filmland that when it comes to a
lavishly-produced musical no
other studio can hold a candle to
M.-G.-M., and if support of this
is wanted the Roaring Lion has
but to flick its tail in the direc-
tion of Sydney St. James, where
this remake of the old-time
“Roberta” is at present flourish-
ing.
This musical certainly has
just about everything: a passable
plot; tuneful music by Jerome
Kern; dainty girls, including
Kathryn Grayson, whose sing-
ing gains from a restraint she
has often not demonstrated in the
past; superb dancing against
sets of unexcelled technicolored
splendor; that irrepressible
comedian Red Skelton in a
shriekful imitation of an Irish
tenor —this 10-minute sequence
is worth the price of a seat on
its own ; and, strangest of all —a
hopeful augury for the future,
this—the preference for a manly
hero with a passably-rich bari-
tone (Howard Keel) over a de-
bilitated yawper.
The Parisian atmosphere is
captured and sustained, and one
dancing sequence, taken at top
speed on a limitless carpet of
stars, is both beautiful and thril-
ling.
♦>
“The Green Glove”
When Geraldine Brooks
laughs she is like one of Renoir’s
young girls, who are like flowers
that opened this morning; she
met Glenn Ford on the Eiffel
Tower when he had come back
for the gauntlet, the saintly relic
studded with diamonds, stolen
by a German spy from its shrine
on a mountain-top French
village. During the war, Ford,
then an American paratrooper,
had taken it from the spy and
left it in an old chateau near
Monte Carlo.
Now agents of the spy, now
an international art-dealer, chase
Mr. Ford ; one is found dead in
his hotel-room, and, accompanied
by Miss Brooks, and followed by
thugs and police, he hurries from
Paris to Monte Carlo, leaving a
detective dead in the train, and
out to a midnight battle in the
bombed-out chateau.
But here Miss Brooks puts her
foot down. He is going to sell
the miracle-glove, so she loves
him not. So he resolves to restore
the glove ; and his mountaineer-
ing climb to the French village,
pursued by the pistol-firing art-
dealer, ends with pleasing dizzi-
ness. (Sydney Palace.)
Artbursts
Raymond Glass
Judging by Raymond Glass’s
third exhibition at the Peter Bray
Gallery, in Melbourne, he is less
interested in the world around
him than in the world of
Picasso, and in the interest
Orozco, Siqueros and other
Mexican artists have had in
Picasso. The result is a collec-
tion of extraordinarily lifeless
pictures. His Garden of Eden
series with its Eve with a
donkey’s or calf’s head, its
Adam with a bull’s head and a
centaur’s forefront, and its
Snake looking like a bolster, his
“The Day There Was No Sun,”
with its rooster, owl and woman
holding up a kerosene-lamp, and
his flute-player playing the
instrument with his nose after
the manner of the Dyak, are
full of incident and excitement,
but the excitement is all in the
head. His “calavera” series—
calavera is Mexican for skulls —
includes an ironic commentary
on marriage in which bride,
bridegroom, bridesmaids and
parsons are all depicted with no
flesh on their bones. Done by
a Goya it would give one the
horrors. Glass only makes it
look pathetic.
Ceramics
Beyond what may be called
novel in the method —they are
in effect glazed tiles hung up
as paintings—there is nothing
in Arthur Boyd’s show of
“ceramics” at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries to distinguish it from
any other wild-man’s corner in
contemporary art: biblical and
classical scenes treated from the
viewpoint of the child and the
savage (with echoes from
Rouault), murky color with
flashes of violence, all serious
technical effort abandoned. Of
course there is some force, prob-
ably a genuine impulse towards
art and a genuine belief that art
can be attained by its opposite;
but the force loses itself in the
repetition of a fashion, the im-
pulse stops short of achievement,
and the belief is utterly mistaken.
* ❖ *
The core of Bissieta’s long
introduction to his exhibition at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney,
seems to be that he is having a
rather painful search for artistic
satisfaction. There is some
evidence of pain in his paintings,
but it appears to be more related
to the surrealist vogue for horror
than to any artistic search or
experiment. Most of the exhibi-
tion, in fact, with its lurid con-
trasts, distortions and dull
dramatics, shows little indication
of the birth-pains of experience
—it looks more like the celebra-
tions of a polygamous marriage
with several fashionable styles.


Do you like an
‘independentspirit?
mm
?■
m
r Jtffire ye f j
BEIXS
J
distillers scgj,
Kumvn\»»7.»unu ...
...l"
PRODUCT Of
■
Our subject is whisky.
By which, of course, we
mean Scotch whisky. It is
generally agreed that
Scotland is the home of
good whisky. From
Scotland come all those
famous, world-known
whiskies.
To be precise, our subject
is one of the fewremaining
independent
Scotch whiskies. In fact we
want to tell you about
ourselves. We are Bell’s,
independent distillers
since 1825.
Perth is our home town.
Whisky is our pride.
And, man, what whisky!
' If you’ve a nose on you to
relish the subtle
smokiness of superlative
Scotch whisky; if you’ve a
tongue that can taste the
years of maturing: if
your palate can appreciate
the blending of many
distillings to make
a perfect whole—if, in a
word, whisky is to you the
heart of the Highlands, its
barley-fields and peat
and moors, its glens and
tumbling burns—
you’re the very man for
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED IS2S
Now in Book Form
Illustrated by Norman
Lindsay with over 40
superb pen-drawings
•
Obtainable at bookshops, or
at “The Bulletin” offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or
Sydney. Or post-free from
The Book Department
“The Bulletin”
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
7/6
"The Letters
Rachel
Henning
“In a manner of speaking—
she was dead in five days.”
“Oh, dear, that was sad,”
“It was, that; especially as
the relatives had a big row about
bringing her back. In the end
they buried her there, and I was
only just in time for the funeral.”
I ACK called out to Eric.
Eric came over. “Meet my
friend, Mr. Owen.”
Mr. Wiseman was pleased to
do so, even while he tried to put
Eric in his right place and set-
ting in a very wicked and dis-
ordered world. Eric was a fine
figure of a man, well set-up and
nicely covered. Wiseman dis-
missed him as an agent, a
traveller for crook fertiliser or
absurdly-priced farm machinery,
or even as a myrmidon of a
corrupt and futile Government.
Jack divined the problem in
Wiseman’s mind. “Sheep,” he
said briefly. And, in aside,
“North-west —big way.”
“Sheep!” said Wiseman with
inner hurt. “Sheep you’re
lucky. When I think of the”
But the grievance was too big
for adequate expression. So he
turned to Jack—“ Lumbago,
now, you said lumbago. The
wife’s uncle had lumbago. Real
lumbago.” In the light of the
wife’s uncle’s real lumbago,
Jack’s brand of it stood con-
demned. “When I think of that
poor man —years and years of
it, and doubled-up just like a
hoop—only not quite joined in
one place. Doctors could do
nothing for him, till”
Jack said “Yes?” with eager
interest in this ray of hope.
“Till Dr. Longshanks gave him
those injections. Wonderful
things those injections.”
“Did they?”
“They did. Too right they
did. Straight as a dart and as
active as Montgomery’s new
bull. Still and all, I often wonder
about those injections just the
same.”
“How’s that?”
“Dead in a month. Dead as
a doornail. Still, I will say this
for him: he died very peace-
fully.”
“Dear me! I’m sorry. Wasn’t
he a great dowser, too?”
“A very great dowser. A
dowser in a million. He could
work the twigs, could the wife’s
uncle. When I think of some
diviners —there was a local one,
for example, that I’d never have
on my place, not for divining
purposes, anyway.”
“Sammy Henderson?”
“That’s the man. Sammy.
You had him once, if you
remember, for that well you put
down.”
“God, yes! I remember.
When it rained enough the water
came in one side and went out
the other.”
It was not an unhappy memory
to Mr. Wiseman. He chuckled.
“And I warned you against Sam
at the time. Didn’t I?”
Jack nodded. He didn’t
remember the warning at all, for
his recollection was of Wise-
man’s recommending Henderson
as a diviner, second in quality
only to the wife’s uncle. Yes,
indeed. And there was a pretty
clear recollection that the wife’s
precious uncle was already dead
then —of natural causes, much
assisted by whisky. Still, there
was no special point in remind-
ing Wiseman of these trifling
discrepancies.
INSTEAD, he altered the drift
1 a little: “How is Sammy
these days?”
“Now, there you have me.
Jack. Do you know, I don’t
know how Sammy is.”
“No?”
“No. Nor no one else neither,
as far as I know.”
“He’s gone from Halfway,
then?”
Wiseman chuckled again.
“You’re saying it. He’s gone
from Halfway. I should say he
has gone from Halfway. What’s
more, I don’t think he’s likely
to come back to Halfway. No,
not Sammy.”
“What happened?”
“Made a proper mess of
things, Sammy did.”
“You don’t say. What —
bankrupt?”
“Not a bit of it —Sammy was
well in. Jolly well in, Sammy
was. No, not bankrupt in the
ordinary way. Religiously bank-
rupt if you like. He made a
proper mess of it all right. And
it just goes to show.”
“What did he do?”
“I’ll tell you. Remember how
pious old Sammy was—lay-
preaching and all that? Well,
that’s how it happened. I don’t
think anyone knew what was
going on, but I could see what
was going to happen long before
it did. Mind you, I think the
girl was as much to blame as
Sammy. When you think of his
age and all.”
“A girl, hey!”
“That’s it, but wait till I tell
you. No one seemed to think
there was any harm in Sammy—
not by now, at any rate, Sammy
being well over sixty, though well
preserved, too. Just shows that
you can’t never tell. That girl—
her father was a Russian, a
refugee of some sort. Well, she
put a kind of hoodoo over
Sammy. Improved his preaching
wonderfully, they say. Sammy
sold up his place—got a thump-
ing price for it, too, and a lot
more than it was worth, though
I will say it was a good place—
and then he cleared out with that
girl.”
“And never came back.”
“Not he. Not a sign of him
since.” '
“He’d be fairly old now.”
“Nearer ninety than anything
—that is, if he’s alive.” Wise-
man added the last in deference
to a fair-minded Nemesis who
takes note of pious old men when
they clear out with Russian girls.
“And Mrs. Henderson?”
“It broke her up properly.
Broken heart, Ido believe. Went
to her daughter’s at Parramatta
and didn’t last too long either.”
There was a sentimental moral
in Sammy’s story and misdoing
that Wiseman seemed to relish:
“Oh, yes, poor soul, a broken
heart and I shouldn’t wonder.
Still, I will say this for Sammy,
she was a fine-looking girl, that
Russian. What she could see in
Sammy is another thing. Beats
me that does.”
“So that’s what happened to
Sammy. Fancy that. But look,
Harry, you haven’t told me how
Mrs. Wiseman is. Real well, I
hope.”
Mr, Wiseman’s face dismissed
the interesting disgrace of
Sammy Henderson. He shoved
his hat forward a little on to his
forehead. “You didn’t hear,
then, Jack?”
“No, Harry.”
“It all started with a pimple,
“What? Harry?”
<<\l/AIT till I tell you. A
“ “ pimple—a simple-looking
pimple, too. On the neck, just
under the ear. I said to her
‘Old woman, don’t scratch that
pimple.’ And she said ‘lt’s itchy,’
I said ‘All the more reason for
not scratching it.’ But you know
what women are. Now, I didn’t
like that pimple, and I kept tell-
ing her not to scratch it. And
she did scratch it. Scratched the
top of it off.
“The youngest girl was at
home then, and I said to her
‘Jinny, put a poultice on your
mother’s neck —a good strong
poultice.’ The wife said T don’t
want a poultice.’ Not that the
pimple looked so much either,
and an ordinary person mightn’t
have given it a second-thought.
Jinny did put a poultice on at
last, but the poison was too far
gone to be drawn out that way,
and the wife was feeling pretty
crook by now. I got the doctor
—old Dr. Bradshaw —you’d
remember him. He said ‘Get her
into hospital! Quick!’ He took
her in himself, in his car. And
got her there only just in time.”
Jack said “Ah!” by way of
relief,
“Only just in time to die
there.”
“Oh, Harry, I’m sorry. I am
sorry to hear that.”
“It was a big loss, Jack. No
>pne can know what a big loss
that woman was to me. She was
a fine woman, Jack —in her way.
And if she hadn’t scratched that
pimple, and if Jinny had put the
poultice on when I said, she
might have been up in the house
now, still singing ‘Annie Laurie’
as she made the beds and fed the
fowls. She was a wonderful
woman. And I’ll say this, too.
Jack, gone and all as she is, that
there wasn’t a man in this dis-
trict, let alone a woman, who
could pack peaches like her. She
was a living wonder at packing
peaches ; artistic she was, in that
way. And if we were a bit rushed
in the orchard, as we often were,
could she use a hoe! Not too
many men could use a hoe like
her. I miss her, I can tell you.
She was a great loss. Jack. A
great loss.”
“I am sorry to hear it . . .
And the girls?”
“They are all married, I see
them sometimes. Kate’s husband
died, you know. He wasn’t a
great loss. Kate and her two kids
are living with me now.”
“And Sid?”
“All right.”
The short answer suggested
there was little profit in dis-
cussing Sid. And the “All right”
seemed a pointer to “All wrong.”
That was likely enough, too,
from what Jack remembered of
Sid.
Jack steered off the profitless
subject of Sid . . . “Jinny and
Elsie ..-.?”
“Both married, as I was say-
ing. Jinny’s husband’s doing
pretty well, I reckon. Worked
himself up Wonderfully—one of
the big agents in the markets
now. There’s pots of money in
that game. Not,” added Wise-
man bitterly, “that anyone from
here sends anything to him.
They’re a suspicious lot.”
There was a seeming incon-
sistency about Wiseman’s en-
thusiasm for a son-in-law who
was an agent and doing well,
but Jack didn’t point it out.
“Elsie,” Wiseman went on,
“hasn’t done so well for herself.
Mind you, he’s a decent enough
fellow, her husband, but this
game’s a bit beyond him. Not
up to it; not a good manager
at all.”
“They’re on the”
“That’s right. Have an orchard
outside Gosford. Not much of
a place either, if you ask me.
Still, I warned him when he
thought of taking it on, but he
knew better. Or thought he did-”
Wiseman indulged in a crooked
sort of grin at the absurdity of
anyone thinking he knew better.
“Trouble is, he thinks himself
no end of a shrewdy. But
decent enough, though. Pretty
tough on Elsie it is. Works as
hard as he does —bit harder, too,
I do believe. And if she didn’t
they’d starve, I do believe.”
“That’s bad luck.”
“It’s not luck altogether. It’s
a matter of how you do things
that things fall out as you want
them. Still and all, Elsie’s not
too strong —not like the old
woman, and it’s cruel to see her
struggling with that orchard
work” . . .
“How’s old Gant these days?”
WISEMAN chuckled as
malice turned back a page.
“Gawd! Now that’s funny you
should mention him. I was just
thinking of Gant as you came
along. Gant! Will you ever
forget the time those horses of
his went over the rock!”
For the better enjoyment of
Gant, Wiseman squatted on his
heels and nicked up a suitable
twig. He pushed back his hat
from the forward position it had
taken for the contemplation of
the big loss his wife had been.
“Gant!” he repeated. “I’ll say
this much for Gant, and you’ll
have to.give him this: he had
great horses. And he thought a
damned sight more of those
horses than he ever did of his
missus and the girls.”
“Stiff luck, wasn’t it, how he
lost that team?”
“Will I ever forget it! His
own fault —working a team near
bees. Funny thing, too, he
blamed you for years after for
having the bees. That was Gant
all over; always wanted it both
ways, if you understand.”
Jack didn’t, but he let it go.
He had, with stiff difficulty,
squatted, too, in a sort of sym-
pathy with Wiseman in his
present mood. “I can see him
now,” said Wiseman, “standing
by those dead horses and blub-
bering like a kid. Gawd, what
a queer show that was! Blub-
bering! A damned sight more
than he did when his missus
went,”
“Mrs. Gant!”
“Too right! Didn’t you hear?”
“I’ve been right out of touch,
you know.” A longish pause
here, while Wiseman made a
cigarette and lit it. To savor
Mrs. Gant fully a cigarette was
necessary. He inhaled deeply.
“Too right! Mrs. Gant! She’s
gone. Must be ten years at least.
It is ten years last June,
and we were getting the navels
away—five-bob a case we were
getting. Think of it! Five-bob!
The wife was alive then, and
she ran over —one of the first
really to get there after it hap-
pened. Good Lord! but there
was a lot of fuss and excite-
ment . . . It’s a wonder you
didn’t hear of it.”
“I’ve been abroad for years,
and so I’ve missed a lot. What
did happen?”
“Wait till I tell you. Now, I
knew something was wrong over
at Gant’s. Couldn’t be off know-
ing it. How any woman could
put up with Gant always beat
me.” (Wiseman didn’t add, “and
that’s saying a lot.” He merely
looked it.) “Well, she’d acted
queer for a long time, and there
was me wondering when the bust
would come. Or wondering
more just what form it would
take. Still, there was nothing
they could fasten on Gant —not
legally. And, in a way, it was
her own fault, really, in the first
place—ever having taken Gant
on, I mean.”
“What?”
“I’m coming to that. There
was a dickens of a screaming
over there in the scrub, and the
wife and Jinny ran over as fast
as they could —I was up at the
store at the time, you under-
stand. It was Ella, the Gants’
youngest girl, tearing through
the bush like mad and crying
out, ‘Mother’s took it! Mother’s
took it!’
“The wife trembled like a
leaf, as she often said afterwards,
to hear Ella screaming like that.
Very soft - hearted the old
woman was, in a way. ‘What
(Continued on page 21)


until summer is nearly over,
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.LSLASWOOL
No house, home, oftice or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless it is insulated preferably with 8.1,
SLAGWOOL.
dfg
m
invmtnulm
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY. MA9311 • MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE, 83804 • ADELAIDE, C 7257 • PERTH, L 2107
AUSTRALIAN HISTORICAL SKETCHES
THE
BOTANY BAY
RANGERS
By M. H. ELLIS
THE name of the New South
Wales Corps is associated in
most minds with rum and
turpitude. For its reputa-
tion it largely has to thank
Governor Hunter, the Reverend
Samuel Marsden and Governor
Bligh.
Governor Hunter is often
cited as an authority. That good
old man of history and pottering
old incompetent of fact is quoted
as having held the Corps up as
worse than the convicts in
iniquity.
But historians always forget to
quote his subsequent eulogy of
its steadiness and good conduct
delivered on his departure from
the colony, or, for that matter,
to place his parade-ground abuse
in a moment of anger beside the
choleric verdict of the Duke of
Wellington on the whole British
rank - and - file long after
Waterloo—“the scum of the
earth ... all enlisted for drink.”
Critics also fail either to study
the facts or to place those which
they know against the back-
ground of the times.
It is held against the soldiers
of the Corps that they were
raised on a bonus system —their
first commandant was “allowed
to name the lieutenant and
ensign of your respective com-
panies, and to receive from the
public three guineas for every
recruit approved at the head-
quarters by a general or field-
officer appointed for that
purpose.”
“Raised in such a manner,”
says one historian, “it is no
wonder that the men composing
the new regiment were not
exactly of the same class as the
Guards or the Blues.” In plain
fact, there was nothing to dis-
tinguish the method of their
raising from that employed in
raising every other British regi-
ment. Macquarie helped to raise
the 77th Foot in exactly the same
way, obtaining his commission
and enlistment bonuses on con-
dition that he should recruit so
many able-bodied men for the
colonel’s company.
Other features which scan-
dalise modern writers about the
Corps were also normal. That
prisoners or ex-convicts were
presently enlisted was perfectly
according to Cocker in the 18th
century. Old England did not
demand that its defenders be
virtuous as well as brave.
Indeed, there was often keen
competition in the West Country
between the Navy and Army for
the brawny products of the
last assize. Many a recruiting-
officer of the Army conducting
his convicted human booty by
road to depot and pausing
incautiously to take his ease at
his inn too near to Plymouth or
Portsmouth discovered a disturb-
ing reduction in his convoy, due
to stealthy abductions by the
Senior Service.
It was not, either, abnormal
for some officers to trade, as the
N. S. Wales Corps officers were
accused of trading. The Duke
of Wellington, when new
standards of military ethics were
becoming fashionable in the
Peninsula, laid it down that it
was wellnigh impossible to
force paymasters of regiments to
refrain from commercial or
financial pursuits. But trading
with your own rank-and-file was
“not done.”
And though the N. S. Wales
Corps has come down to history
as the “Rum Corps” its members
were no more eminent either as
consumers or traders in bad
liquor than any civilian merchant
or civil servant of the times in
N. S. Wales. Mr. Simeon Lord
could have given the Corps’ most
eminent licensed victuallers
points, and Messrs. Underwood
and liable and some others
would have conceded them only
amateur status. They were
under the grave disadvantage
that their chief traducers were
more literate than they and
unscrupulous to the limit. The
clergy of the day, thwarted in
some of their cherished ambi-
tions, hurled accusations at them
comparable only with those
aimed at the provably innocent
Governor Macquarie, who was
branded by one reverend gentle-
man for allegedly accepting
indirect bribes and personally
exchanging coals for rum with
the Governor-General of India.
One of the most remarkable
facts about the manner in which
the so-called Rum Corps’ reputa-
tion was established was the
sudden switch of Governor
Hunter’s charges of liquor-
trading from ex-convict shanty-
beepers to the military officers
the moment he became involved
in a quarrel with the latter about
other matters.
That some or all of them did
trade in liquor is beyond ques-
tion ; but so did everybody else.
Even the aide-de-camp of
Governor Hunter was sent home
by Governor King for trial on
a charge of selling rum to his
sergeant at an exorbitant figure ;
and the Rev. Samuel Marsden,
the leader of the outcry against
regimental turpitude and “grave-
yards like ploughed fields” pro-
duced by the liquor trade, was
not . above selling a bottle to a
parishioner or paying away rum
as wages, as Macquarie and
others testified.
On the evidence mainly of a
ribald and scandalous rhyme
written by an Irish convict, and
earlier information just about as
reliable, the officers of the regi-
ment are held up as a pack of
scoundrels of the deepest dye,
drawn from the dregs of the
Army and dumped into the
Corps only because its
atmosphere mated with their
own alleged natural infamy.
The facts do not tally with the
allegations. Grose, the first
commandant, was a badly
wounded fighting soldier. He had
been one of the two or three
officers of the 52nd Foot who had
come out alive from the Battle of
Bunker Hill. He had been
wounded at Montgomery Court
House and invalided home. He
had served later in two or three
good regiments, rising to field-
rank. He certainly had influ-
ence, for he was a son of the
antiquarian, that “fine fat, fodgil
wight” whom Burns loved—that
“chiel amang you takin’ notes.”
He himself was a good-natured
and indolent fellow.
+ +
Viewed impartially on the
facts, Grose’s short reign in
N. S. Wales contributed a great
deal to the progress of the
colony, if not to its democracy ;
but, again, most people see it
through the eyes of Governor
Hunter. He at first praised it,
then, when he quarrelled with the
officer who had been its main
administrator, could say nothing
bad enough of it.
Grose died a lieutenant-
general ; so did Foveaux, that
large, genial, capable Gallic Irish-
man who was sneered at for
being son to a cook of the Earl
of Upper Ossory—he whom
Macquarie later adjudged a man
of “very superior talents, of
strict honor and integrity; the
fittest person he had ever met
with in any country in thirty
years for improving and conduct-
ing an infant colony to
maturity.” He recommended
him for appointment as
Lieutenant-Governor of Van
Diemen’s Land.
Captain Nepean, the original
senior captain in the Corps, had
come out of the Marines. He
was a brother of the Under-
secretary to the Admiralty. He
died young, a brigadier-general
in command of the Cape Breton
district in Canada.
Captain William Paterson had
served in two famous regiments,
including the Second Battalion
of the Black Watch (73rd). He
had been wounded in India. He
was under the patronage of Lady
Strathmore, an ancestress of our
Queen Elizabeth. He was known
as an African explorer, reputed
to have brought to England the
first giraffe-skin ever seen there,
and ripe shortly to be elected a
Fellow of the Royal Society.
+ ■+■
Captain John Macarthur, by
scandalous history said to have
been originally a staymaker’s
apprentice or “man milliner” —
“Jack Boddice” —had actually
been a regular officer since
1782, when he was 15 years of
age. An examination of his early
life shows that his friends were
county magnates, retired officers
and clergy. At 21 he married the
well-educated daughter of a
small squire at Bridgerule, on the
borders of Devon and Cornwall.
And his wife recorded many
years afterwards that at the time
of their wedding he was adjudged
to be “too proud and haughty”
for her “humble fortune or
expectations.” His near-relatives
were Army agents. Naval and
Marine officers. One influential
cousin, his namesake, was
Nelson’s secretary and bio-
grapher, a power in London
official society ; another was Dr.
Duncan MacArthur, friend and
physician of the Duke of
Wellington in his last years—he
attended him on his death-bed.
Macarthur canie to the N. S.
Wales Corps from the 68th Foot
(Durham L. 1.). There is nothing
in military records to support
the legend that he transferred
because of some misdemeanor
which drove him out of a respec-
table regiment. The power which
impelled him to come to N. S.
Wales was probably, to a
youngster of 22 who had a wife
and child, the temptation pre-
sented by assurance of promo-
tion, and by the fact that the new
colony offered him “reasonable
expectation of reaping the most
material advantages.... in a
country where nature has been
so lavish of her bounties,
that wheat flourished in a
manner nearly incredible....
flowers luxuriantly abound in the
same manner as culture fruits
will do hereafter.”
For the rest, Captain Hill
among the originals came from
the 86th Foot (Shropshires),
Captain Edward Abbott from
the 73rd —good regiments. Lieu-
tenant Johnston, who transferred
from the Marines, was a friend
of the Duke of Northumberland,
with whom he had served in the
American wars and was esteemed
also as a former friqnd by Mac-
quarie. William Cox, builder of
the road across the Blue Moun-
tains and co-pioneer with
Macarthur and others in the
development of Merino sheep
and the art of Australian farm-
ing in general, speaks for himself
by his performance; so does
Archibald Bell, of Belmont,
whose descendants were scattered
on great pastoral properties
throughout Eastern Australia
from Denman to Coochin
Coochin and Camboon.
To the quality of Barallier, the
first white man who seems to
have had any real claim to have
led a party beyond the main
range of the Blue Mountains, a
subsequent long record as a
capable military engineer testi-
fies. Many Australian tourists,
standing in Trafalgar-square,
gaze, crick-necked, at Nelson’s
monument. Few know enough
to associate the engineer
connected with that famous
column with the young N. S.
Wales Corps Ensign who, 12
years before Blaxland, Went-
worth and Lawson (also an
officer of the Corps), penetrated
the Blue Mountains virtually as
far west as they, but by a more
southerly route which took him
to the head of Campbell’s Creek.
Neil McKellar had a distin-
guished regimental career in war
and peace in famous regiments.
Anthony Fenn Kemp, one of the
later additions to the Corps, held
up as the son of an Aldgate
pawnbroker and nephew of a
hanged forger, had certainly
been to school with Colonel
Gordon, the secretary to the
Duke of York, Commander-in-
Chief. Ensign Bayly, who be-
came Johnston’s secretary in the
Rum Rebellion, was a brother of
General Bayly—one of the
family which has become more
famous under its adopted name
of Paget.
The son of an Archbishop of
York had not been too proud
to become a co-major with Grose
in the regiment’s early days. Its
lists of officers at the time of the
so-called Rum Rebellion in 1808
included the Hon. George
Lamb, a future Lord Melbourne
—brother to the Prime Minister
—distinguished in later life
among British diplomats ;/ a
young Villiers, scion of one of
the most influential political
families of the time in England.
When the Corps was numbered
as a regiment of the line as the
102nd Foot and was sent home
after Macquarie’s arrival, the
Australian phase of its experi-
ences over, the man chosen to
command it on service was
Charles Napier, one of the most
wounded and bravest of Wel-
lington’s fighting officers of the
Peninsula and later renowned as
the conqueror of the Scinde.
He was succeeded in command
by Lord George William Russell,
son of a Duke of Bedford, Wel-
lington’s aide-de-camp and later
Ambassador to Berlin. He was
brother to another Prime
Minister of England, Lord John
Russell. When he retired the
regiment was metamorphosed
into the Royal Canadians. Its
colonel for years was Lieutenant-
General vSir Edward Macarthur,
who might be described as the
first son of the Corps, since he
had come out in arms with the
first drafts in the Second Fleet
with his father.
No Corps was ever so much
associated with the beginnings of
any country as the Botany Bay
Rangers, as they called them-
selves in private. The names of
their members dot the landscape
of earliest N. S. Wales.
Cox River, Bell Line across
the Blue Mountains, Macarthur
Federal electorate, Grose Valley
and River, Lawson, Foveaux-
street, Paterson River, Min-
chinbury, Harris Park, Point
Piper and several Piper-streets,
Johnston-streets in Annandale
and a dozen other Sydney muni-
cipalities, Rowley-street (several),
Townson - street, Nepean - street
and others seem a fair helping-of
geographical memorials for the
members of the officers’ mess of
a little colonial regiment which
is supposed, according to most
of those who profess to teach
history, to be memorable for
nothing but its vice, its rum-
trading and its general disorder-
liness.


THE symbol that
tells, plainer than
any words, of whisky
at its finest.
—'».wsr.a
,Ih« Old Blervd
52S1£2— WKislcv
c/’tke »r
l , ; >i (ELLAR
>.«. lOKTOK
fscS«iTi,|ci,a‘pi
8®« foAcV’flS'lSW
"""m* fiutt
wilift „ r ' m r—e
LTD.
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
WHI4X/9
CUAKD
Catiu
PROTECTA L/
6tnd - Sdt
TILL
df
Suitable for every type of business •* record*
all Sale*. Credit*. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Lto-
PEIiTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Auit),
SPORTING NOTIONS
Main Melbourne and Sydney
topic this week is whether Caul-
field Cup favorite and winner
Peshawar can complete the two-
Cups double? Poseidon (1906),
The Trump (1937) and Rivette
(1939) are the only winners of
both races in the same season,
but Peshawar won the Caulfield
mile-and-a-half in such impres-
sive style that, despite his addi-
tional 91b. on his original 8.1,
he could equal the feat of those
three, all of them in the top
flight, especially Poseidon, who
also won the Caulfield Cup 12
months after his double success.
Joint owners of Peshawar, Sir
Sydney Snow and Allan C.
Lewis, will achieve a life’s turf
ambition if the four-year-old
horse can bring off the big
double. They have long waited
for one capable of winning the
greatest handicap in the southern
hemisphere, and Peshawar might
rise to the super occasion.
Peshawar (8.2) beat Adelaide
galloper King Amana, who
didn’t have much luck on his
recent Sydney visit, and Mel-
bourne performer Durham.
Costing 500 guineas as a year-
ling, Peshawar has proved a turf
bargain, as stake earnings now
exceed £12,500. He is the only
progeny of his defunct sire, A 1
Nasser, who was by noted sire
Hyperion. Recaste, dam of the
Cup winner, is a sister to the
former Sydney galloper Belle
Caste, and is by Revelation
(imp.) from Caste by Posterity
(imp,). Peshawar is closely re-
lated to Veilmond, a stayer of
some seasons back and winner
of both St. Legers and the A.J.C.
Plate. A yearling half-brother
of Peshawar and by Jambo
(imp.) was sold at the Randwick
sales a few months ago for 1700
guineas.
• • • •
The Peshawar colors were
carried to victory in two States
on Saturday, Sir Sydney Snow’s
two - year - old colt Caspar,
trained by Fred Allspp, succeed-
ing in City Tattersall’s Youthful
Stakes at Randwick, starting
equal-favorite with Rayoma.
Allsop had prepared Peshawar
until a few months ago, when it
was decided to send the four-
year-old to Melbourne to join
P. B. Quinlan’s team. Peshawar
had finished fourth in the Sydney
Cup to Opulent, and long-range
planning concentrated on the
Caulfield Cup. He gave A.
(“Scobie”) Breasley his fifth sue-
cess in that mile-and-a-half —a
record in Cup history. Breas-
ley’s previous winners were
Tranquil Star, Skipton, St. War-
den and St. Fairy,
Caspar is a nicely-turned son
of Brueghel (It.) and Autocratic,
and cost 575 guineas as a year-
ling ; first money for the Youth-
ful Stakes was £668. Caspar is
from a granddaughter of Frances
Tressady (both St. Legers and
the Oaks). Blue Vest and Blue
Boots, Brisbane stayers, appear
in the family lines. The colt was
reared at Widden Stud, Kerra-
bee (N.S.W.), and was bred by
Misses E. Dwyer and J. L.
Finlay.
Melbourne punters must be
wishing they had never seen
Sydney three-year-old Suncup,
for the second time in succession
made favorite in a Melbourne
event and for the second time
leaving his backers lamenting.
He started at threes for Caulfield
Burwood Handicap, and ran
ninth. Many Sydneysiders, how-
ever, backed the winner, Rand-
wick-trained Blond Val, one of
Reg Harris’s team and a 13-to-2
chance —third favorite. Blond
Val profited by his experience of
the left-handed going in the
Caulfield Guineas, when he was
sixth, a run noted by close
observers of that race.
Absence of most of the lead-
ing Sydney jockeys from Rand-
wick last Saturday gave the
younger horsemen their chance,
but two “daddies” of the pig-
skin, Darby Munro and Billy
Cook, won half the programme.
One or two of the apprentices
won races in excellent style, but
some others put up poor shows,
and it’s certain their mounts of
Saturday last will do much better
in the hands of more experienced
horsemen. Cook’s winners, Re-
flected Glory and Carioca, and
Munro’s pair, Britavah and Battle
Step, were all favorites, an indi-
cation of the confidence reposed
in the riders’ ability by backers.
Most leading Sydney jockeys
find the going smooth in Mel-
bourne, but George Moore
hadn’t had much luck there up
to his present visit. This time,
however, he has won the Caul-
field Mona Nursery on Sydney’s
speedy filly Love To All and
Saturday’s Gwyn Nursery on
Apple Jack, trained in Sydney
by Bill Fellows, who won the
1949 Melbourne Cup on Fox-
zami. Apple Jack, 2-to -1
favorite, led most of the way.
Apple Jack, a Newtown Won-
der (imp.) colt from Silver
Words, cost 1400 guineas as a
yearling. He already has re-
turned half his cost. Silver
Words is a Talking mare and
Apple Jack was her first foal.
The youngster is from the same
family as Lady Medallist (Caul-
field Cup and A.J.C. Craven
Plate).
Morse Qode, one of the best-
backed horses for this year’s
Melbourne Cup—he started 4-
to-1 favorite last year, but fell
when going well at the home
turn —is expected to give a
pointer to his chances when he
competes in this Saturday’s Cox
Plate at Moonee Valley. He has
been coupled for a fortune by
backers big and small with
Caulfield Cup winner Peshawar.
Sydney businessman and
sportsman Bill Kirwan, who won
races with Sir Raven and Native
Son (Carrington Stakes), wasn’t
among those present at Rand-
wick to see his Genetout (imp.)
colt Idriess win the Members’
Handicap. The lightly-raced colt
should soon add to his opening
success. Trained at Rosehill by
“Fool of a thing—getting swallowed by a snake!”
Harry Plant, Idriess had shown
promising form prior to last
Saturday’s winning display, and
he was backed with confidence.
His dam. Sunny Princess, was
bred by Captain A. Frauen-
felder, and is by Coronation Day
(imp.). When offered as a year-
ling highest bid was one of
260 guineas, and he was passed
in for private treaty. Breeding
indicates Idriess will stay.
Queensland colt Kashmir,
raced jointly by E. A. Under-
wood (Victorian breeder) and
Dr. J. Power, was unsuccessful
on his visit to Sydney for the
Derby (sixth), but evidently he’s
a class superior to other Bris-
bane three-year-olds. Returning
north, he easily won the Guineas
at the Q.T.C. meeting last
Saturday, starting a warm
favorite at 6 to 4. Two-year-
old Hieroglyph, winner of the
C. E. McDougall Stakes, is a
smart filly by Footmark from
Kissable, a mare bred in 1945
by prominent Victorian stud-
master A. G. Hunter. Kissable
is by Kinderscout (imp.) from
Suds Bay by Hellespont (Fr.).
An interesting winner *at
Eagle Farm on Guineas Day
was Toshah, who cleared out
with the Hopeful Stakes (two-
year-olds). He’s a New Zealand-
bred gelding by Pherozshah
(imp.) from Neglectful, an un-
raced mare by Lang Bian (imp.)
from Forgetfulness (unraced) by
Bulandshar (imp.), sire of High
Caste. Toshah was bred at Glen
Lyon Stud, Levin.
* * * *
Sydney stables haven’t had
much luck in the Moonee
Valley Cup, Melbourne’s high-
light this coming Saturday, but
not many of them have sent can-
didates for the race run over the
Metrop. distance, Im. sfur.
Since 1939, when Gilltown won
—he also scored the following
year —Yours Truly and Benvolo
have been other Sydney-owned
winners. Minor placegetters from
Sydney since 1939 have been
L’Aiglon, Katanga, Cordale,
Good Idea, Karachi and Steady.
In the Cox Plate (w.-f,-a,), to
be run at the Valley this Satur-
day, Sydney may be represented
by Hydrogen, Suncup and other
smart performers. Hydrogen
started at 5 to 4 for the Plate
last spring, but Bronton beat him
a neck in 2.5*. Hydrogen might
go one better this time. Some
of Australia’s best horses have
won this popular mile-and-a-
quarter, formerly run at
Dual winners include Flight,
Beau Vite, Tranquil Star, Young
Idea, Chatham and Phar Lap.
In addition to Flight, Chatham
and Phar Lap, Sydney-owned
also to score have been Violon-
cello, Mosaic and Delta, while
other noted horses to win the
Plate included The Night Patrol,
Manfred, Heroic, Nightmarch,
Rogilia, Ajax and Carbon Copy.
Tasmanian Racing Club has
the right idea when it comes to
keeping fields up to reasonable
numbers. Its system could well
be followed by less-important
mainland clubs, as the public
doesn’t fancy small fields at
meetings away from capital
cities. The T.R.C. meets an
owners’ subsidy. For each non-
placegetter at certain fixtures it
pays £2 in flat events and £2 10s.
in hurdle and steeple races,
while attendants and horses
(non-winners) are carried free
both ways by rail. In addition
a freight allowance is made for
road travel. It seems a smart
idea, and will apply to this
Saturday’s 66th Show meeting at
Elwick, Hobart,
Thirteen three-year-olds have
won the Victoria Derby-Mei-
bourne Cup double, namely
Lantern, Briseis, Chester, Grand
Flaneur, Martini-Henry, New-
haven, Merriwee, Poseidon,
Prince Foote, Patrobas, Trivalve,
Hall Mark and Skipton, the
last-named in 1941,
* * * *
The South Africans, due to
meet W.A. this weekend, are
largely an unknown quantity.
Only eight of the 16 who
toured Britain in 1951 are
here. The stars of that tour have
gone: Nourse and Athol Rowan
have been forced by injury to
retire, McCarthy is studying in
England, Eric Rowan (top in
batting averages in England) has
been curtly dismissed from big
cricket by the S’African board,
while “Tufty” Mann, the best
of good fellows and fine spin-
bowler, died a few months ago.
The present team lacks “names,”
but it’s youthful and keen.
The visiting Aussies turned on
some bright cricket at Hong
Kong. Miller and Morris got
among ’em, but best effort was a
partnership between Flockton
(238) and Carroll (114) which
included 17 sixes and 43 fours,
• • • •
N.S.W. and Queensland meet
in Brisbane on Friday in the
first Shield game of the season.
Both States have new coin-
tossers Miller instead of
Morris, N.S.W. skipper since
1947-48, and Archer in place of
Carrigan. Miller has led the
State before, but only when
Morris was out; his choice is
said to be a move in the cam-
paign for brighter cricket.
Archer, at 24, shares with one-
time N.S.W. skipper McGilvray
the honor of being the youngest
skipper of a State side.
Tallon, at 36, has been pre-
ferred as Queensland ’keeper, to
the much-younger Grout, who
was given a good chance of go-
ing to England next year. If
Tallon strikes his best form,
Grout will probably have to
wait for another day. Tallon
was very patchy in his last Test
series (against England in
1950-51), and he seemed certain
to be dropped for Saggers till
injury forced the latter right out
of the game. Last year Langley
did a fine job behind the sticks
against West Indies. Looks like
a fight between the two for the
Australian job this year.
* * * *
“Aw”: To speak of anything
surging through the water at
1.29 knots would make a “Mac-
nell” or “Standby” snort —until
they tried to do it with their own
propellers. Flo Chadwick, a 33-
year-old office girl, averaged that
speed in swimming 22 miles
across Catalina Channel (Cal.).
She was clocked at 13hr. 47min.
32sec. for the journey, had five
hours’ sleep, then announced she
would have a crack at the Dar-
danelles and Strait of Gibraltar.
She’s done the English Channel
twice. She made a new record
across the Catalina, and com-
plained of bruises and a cut from
fish bumping into her —they
probably didn’t have time to get
out of the way.
* * * *
It may comfort the Australian
Rugby Leaguesters for their
defeat in the first Test in Eng-
land to know they’ve helped
along the Welfare State, British
rearmament and other things.
The gate was £8628 ; entertain-
ment tax took £2378. In 1948,
at a similar match, the gate was
£BO2O and the tax £1034. Doc.
Evatt, as a Rugby League pat-
ron, can scarcely blame Bob
Menzies, the well-known Aussie
Rules supporter, for it.
* * * *
In a double bill of 12-rounders
at Leichhardt A 1 Smith (11.11)
stopped Jim Doherty (11.6), and
Arthur Kelly (9.8) drew with
Ken Wenman (9.8). Doherty,
protege of Tommy Burns, out-
boxed Smith from start to finish
of round one, but Smith let loose
a staggering barrage in the next,
and half-way through the round
Mr. Murphy (that is, Burns)
skied the rag. Wenman, having
his first scrap after a long spell,
boxed brilliantly and won well
on points, but the Kelly kept
attacking, which aggression
evidently influenced ref. Mawson
in calling it a draw.
Before heading back to the
U.S., Freddie Dawson delivered
himself of a good mouthful of
horse-sense. Australia, he said,
will never have first-class fight-
ing men unless more attention is
paid here to developing them in
the amateur ranks. About 40-
odd years ago, and even later,
the amateur championships were
grand nurseries for future great
professionals. Dave Smith, Jack
Read, Sid Godfrey and Ambrose
Palmer, all champions, started
out as amateurs. Professional
tournaments are more expensive
to run than amateur ones; but
Tommy Uren was one who got
going that way—from the New-
town (N.S.W.) Olympia tourna-
ment. Whether amateur or pro.,
tournaments are splendid recruit-
ing grounds for future ring stars,
and Australian promoters are
apparently asleep when they
neglect putting on at least a
couple such things every year.


RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
.ARTHRITIS
.RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
can be yours with
EXSESDES
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
Dolcin has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Arthritis, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuritis, Lumbago and Fibrositis. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able to work
—thanks to the relief from pain Dolcin
Tablets have brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
DOLCIN
Helpful and informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin (Australia}
Pty. Ltd., Box 1552, Sydney ,
fttis* 9
tfiEtf*
set***
iu**** 00
-.V*2
;
lUW?
100
ABLETS
FOR 12/6
&/12>A
*****
f
mm
Presented each week direct
from Hollywood, the
hilarious adventures of
Andy Hardy are firmly es-
tablished as a top listening
favorite with more than a million
Australians. Featuring Mickey
Rooney, Lewis Stone, Fay Holden—
the stars who made the M.G.M.
series famous —the warm, delightful
comedy of “The Hardy Family” is
radio entertainment at its best.
“The Hardy Family ” is presented with the good wishes
of the makers of Cadbury's Chocolate by the Macquarie
Broadcasting Service over a Commonwealth-wide Network
THIS WEEK, TUNE TO "THE HARDY FAMILY"!
yOU'U THOROUGHLY ENJOY THEM!
SSSp
u
1
Behind the Iron Curtain
STALIN
MAO AND KOREA
By D. B. SINGER
WHEN people ask “What
is really going on be-
tween the Russians and
the Chinese? Are Stalin
and Mao Tse-tung rivals? Will
Moscow and Peking one day
quarrel?” they are being more
hopeful than curious. They hope
that the newest Communist
Power will fall out with the
oldest; they do not want to be
told that the actual and possible
differences between them are far
less important than the vital in-
terests that at present hold them
together.
The crucial point to remember
is that China is now fighting the
Soviet Union’s chief rival —the
United States. The Korean war
has radically changed the pattern
of relations between the veteran
and the novice in world politics
—Moscow and Peking. They
are now fighting allies.
Early in 1950 Mao Tse-tung
sat in the Kremlin for many
weeks negotiating a treaty with
the Russians. He was treated as
an equal, but his country was
not. The Russians decided to
remain until the end of 1952 in
the great naval base and strong-
point of Port Arthur and to re-
tain a control of the strategically
important Chinese eastern rail-
way ; it looked as if the Russians
did not yet trust their up-and-
coming neighbors. Some thought
that Stalin feared another Tito
in Peking.
Two years have passed, and
we now learn that the railway
goes back to China this year but
that the Russians at the re-
quest of the Chinese —will stay
in Port Arthur. Indeed, that was
the only published result of the
negotiations in Moscow.
Why do the Chinese welcome
in 1952 what they certainly re-
sented in 1950? Has Stalin’s
hand been strengthened in those
two years?
Clearly the Chinese ate fright-
ened of the Americans, whom
they have challenged in Korea,
and of the Japanese recovery.
Their industrial plans are being
held up. Cut off by blockade
from almost all Western sources
of supply, they are increasingly
dependent on the Russians;
official statistics say that three-
quarters of China’s trade turn-
over is with Moscow. Only from
there can Mao get for his troops
the jets, the tanks and guns, the
technicians and ammunition
without which the Chinese would
stand little chance against the
United Nations forces.
True, to supply the Chinese
with these things at the end of
long lines of communication is
no easy matter for the Russians ;
they may have grudged it at
first when the Korean campaign
went wrong. But now they may
feel that it is like the Spanish
civil war —a testing-ground for
men and weapons ; large Ameri-
can forces needed elsewhere are
pinned down without the use of
a single Russian soldier.
Indeed, the Chinese have
shown their capacity to protect
the Soviet Union’s eastern flank
in case of world war. If Stalin
really feels this, then he could
safely release part of his Far
Eastern Army for use elsewhere.
The large flow of modern Soviet
equipment into Korea is a sign
that the Russians are handing
over to the Chinese the bulk of
the arsenals of the Far Eastern
Army. Since this army was
organised in the ’thirties by
General V. Blucher, as an almost
self-sufficient command, it has
absorbed into Asia almost one-
quarter of Stalin’s total forces.
It therefore pays the Russians
to treat the Chinese well, even
though the Korean War has
increased Mao’s dependence on
Stalin, They do not play down
his importance or treat him like
the puppet Ministers of Com-
munist Eastern Europe, They
ignore for the moment his inde-
pendent line of doctrine. A quite
Chinese ceremonial is observed
to emphasise the equal status of
the partners. The Chinese get
trade terms which are, by Soviet
standards, generous. Soviet
experts and technicians in a
steady stream are reported to be
entering the Chinese economy,
thereby, of course, increasing its
dependence on Russia. Propa-
ganda from both countries refers
frequently to substantial ship-
ments of Soviet heavy equipment
to help Mao’s drive to indus-
trialise China. And so on.
But there are contradictions in
the picture and questions to be
asked. What has happened to
the industrial plant in Man-
churia, much of which the Rus-
sians dismantled after the war?
Manchuria is the basis for
China’s industrial revolution —
its Donbas —yet nothing is said
about its future in the recent
communiques on the Moscow
talks.
The silence may be significant:
but other statements are to be
expected in view of the fact that
the Chinese Ministers of Fuel
and Machine Tools and the
chiefs of artillery and the air
By special arrangement with the "Economist,” this
Bulletin feature, giving up-to-the-minute informa-
tion on current developments “Behind the Iron
Curtain” appears each month.
force are still in Moscow. It
may be that the Russians prefer
sending military aid and tech-
nicians to sending heavy equip-
ment which they can ill spare
and which would reduce China’s
dependence.
And then there is the question
of Outer Mongolia: the Chinese
might one day ask that this
thinly populated but strategically
important country should cease
being a “Soviet Autonomous
Republic” and return to them.
Those are, of course, differ-
ences that might exist between
any two neighboring Powers;
but there is another cause of
friction arising out of the fact
that Mao has not taken Stalin’s
advice in matters of Communist
theory and action. His victory
has been the greatest political
success for the Soviet Union
since the war, but it has also
faced Soviet leaders with new
and intricate problems.
By a curious irony of history.
Communist revolutions have
hitherto succeeded not in indus-
trialised Western States —where,
according to Marxist theory, the
ground should be most suitable
—but first in relatively backward
Russia and then in a China with-
out a real industrial working-
class. Stalin may not be worried
about this curiosity—a pro-
letarian dictatorship without a
proletariat—but he must worry
about this great “peasant-Com-
munist” revolution which was
neither made nor designed in
Moscow. While comrades Dimi-
trov, Rakosi or Tito himself
were receiving in Eastern
Europe their orders from the
Kremlin, Mao Tse-tung was
comparatively isolated in his
Yenan Republic. Indeed, it was
during Mao’s leadership of the
Chinese Communist party —from
1935 up to the final victory —
that it had least contacts with
the Soviet Union.
Because of this independence
and the potential power of his
country Mao cannot be a mere
subordinate. He can be an ally,
or a rival, or both. And the
Russians seem, therefore, to
have accepted the idea of divid-
ing with the Chinese spheres of
influence and Communist action
in Asia.
They may even welcome it at
the present moment as a useful
means of entangling China still
further and causing as much mis-
chief as possible to the Western
Powers outside Recent
articles in Soviet periodicals
have emphasised China’s interest
in South Asian countries, par-
ticularly in Malaya, Siam and
Burma. But will Mao be con-
tent for long with leadership of
Communism in those countries?
There have already been
rumors that he is claiming for
himself the control of the Com-
munist party in India, a direct
neighbor of the Russians and
another potential great Power.
Can Stalin take the risk of allow-
ing Mao the same role in the
Communist movement in Asia
as he himself plays in Europe?
Can there be two Popes in the
Communist creed, a Peking as
well as a Moscow Empire?
Clearly, the potential causes
of friction are there —but so are
the ties of interest. The latter
prevail while there is war in
Korea; but suppose Moscow
and Peking decide to stop that
real war and wage only cold
.war in Asia —by revolutionary
propaganda. Then there could
be a struggle for leadership.
For Moscow, the Mecca of
world Communism, has been
obliged to accept the emergence
in China of a Medina for Asian
revolutionaries. So far it has
accepted with good grace ; but
there are signs of uneasiness.
The Soviet Academy of Sciences
has used a d r 'fusion of revolu-
tion in Asia to < > ;cr Mao Tse-
tung a snub; ‘Though the im-
portance of the Chinese revolu-
tion is particularly great,” they
said, “it should not be taken as
a fetish, as universal for all the
situations which may arise in
Asia.”
Russians find it hard to under-
stand that Mao won China for
Communism without the help of
their bayonets and by tactics
opposed to what they ordered.
They will have to decide in the
future how much help they must
give to keep China with them
and how much they must with-
hold to prevent their great
neighbor becoming too powerful.
But for the moment it is wiser
to dismiss all thought of schism.
The Korean war is cementing
the alliance against the common
enemy.


Now, for the first time, j
available in Australia •
COLCHISONE
the sensational new treatment for relief from
GOUT, RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, FIBROSITIS
Don’t be mistaken! It’s 10
to 1 those pains and aches
in joints and limbs from
■which you suffer are due to
a “gouty” condition —the
result of urates forming
through excessive uric acid
in the bloodstream.
Generally the symptoms are
first noticeable in your hands
and feet or old injuries to
the joints and, for your own
sake, you must not neglect
these vigrnings. Unless this
condition is checked, your
elbows, knees, ankles or other
Joints Will become swollen
and inflamed, you may suffer
unbearable agony and
eventually become crippled
through Rheumatism or other
more drastic complaints.
Colchisone dissolves and eli-
minates the urates and rids
the blood of uric acid, help-
ing to remove the cause of
your trouble. It brings
positive and lasting relief >
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
PRICE 30/-
for several months’ supply
( including valuable food
chart )
If you have any difficulty in obtaining supplies, write to the Sole Australian Distributors:
Richard Medical Products Pty,, Ltd., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney .
Kg
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOUTH AFRICA'S DR. MALAN
Over the past year or two
these pages must have received
at least a hundredweight of com-
ment—nearly all of it abusive —
on South Africa’s Dr. Malan.
The trouble has been that
practically the whole of it,
British and American Press
alike, has been not only patently
but avowedly hostile. Even
Moussadek has had a “better
Press.”
The effect in South Africa—as
could be expected, in fact, in any
country on earth—has been the
very opposite to that aimed at
by the critics. It has strengthened
Malan’s position, just as similar
attacks from outside have con-
solidated Spanish support behind
Franco.
In- a recent generally con-
demnatory article on Malan,
the London “Times” Cape Town
correspondent noted that the
power of the S’African Opposi-
tion has been “seriously embar-
rassed by recurrent attacks on
South Africa in the United
Nations and continued sniping
from certain overseas writers and
speakers, both in Britain and
other countries, which anger all
South Africans, and may anger
some Opposition-minded South
Africans enough to drive them
into the Nationalist camp.”
Voice of the Whites
Asa change from the familiar
brickbat barrage, the former
editor of the “Rand Daily Mail”
(Johannesburg) and the “Cape
Argus” (Cape Town), L- E.
Neame, in London “Fortnightly”
attempts a purely detached,
objective view, neither hostile
nor friendly.
Many people in South Africa,
he reports, heartily dislike Malan
and his ideas, but they know he
is a man who does what he says
he will do and damns the con-
sequences.
To understand Malan and his
policy, the writer adds, he must
be viewed against his back-
ground and his environment. He
is the spokesman of an isolated
people who for 300 years have
been striving to establish a
White nation in. a Black con-
tinent. He talks much of de-
mocracy and the voice of the
“volk.” But his democracy has
the caste structure of that in the
Black Belt of the United States,
and to him the voice of the
“volk” means the voice of the
Whites.
No British
Two basic facts, the writer
points out, must be remembered
by those who would understand
the pattern of life in the Union
of South Africa.
First, the Whites are outnum-
bered by nearly four to one by
non-Whites, which means that
their outlook is governed by the
instinct of self-preservation and
the fear of non-White domina-
tion.
The second point is that the
majority of the Whites are, and
always have been, Dutch. The
Union may be a British
Dominion. But it is an Afrikaner
land. It has never had as Prime
Minister a man of British des-
cent. In its Cabinets and its
Parliaments there has always
been a majority of Afrikaners.
When he became Prime Minis-
ter, Malan formed the first
wholly Afrikaner Government
in the history of the Union. No
representative of the English
section had a seat in his Cabinet.
The wheel had turned full circle.
At the opening of the twentieth
century the administration of all
South Africa had been British.
Now it was purely Dutch.
Malan Moves
Among subsequent steps
Malan removed Coloreds from
the common roll. He halted
the large-scale immigration from
Great Britain which had been a
feature of Smuts’s post-war
policy, and encouraged the im-
portation of technicians from
Holland, Germany and Belgium.
The law giving newcomers the
right to become Union nationals
after two years’ residence was
altered and the qualifying period
extended to five years. He be-
gan to apply the policy of
Apartheid in all public offices,
and made sexual relations be-
tween Whites and non-Whites a
penal offence.
Further, he passed anti-Com-
munist laws of so drastic a
character that by Ministerial
edict individuals could be de-
prived of their business, barred
from holding public office and
removed to specified residential
areas without the right of appeal
to the courts. He rejected the
claim of the United Nations to
exercise any measure of super-
vision over the mandated terri-
tory of South-west Africa.
Neo-Nazi
“Dr. Malan’s Government,”
says the “Fortnightly” writer,
“has had a bad Press both at
home and abroad. Critics from
China to Peru fulminate against
his ideology and denounce his
administration as reactionary
and totalitarian.
“In the Union,” he adds, “the
ex-soldier ‘torch commandos’
seek to defend the liberty for
which they fought. The mem-
bers of the United party are
girding up their loins for a
gigantic effort to defeat Malan-
ism at the next general election
—due in 1953 at the latest—
and are already calling upon all
right-minded men to prevent the
entrenchment of a party whose
color policy and neo-Nazi
temper are likely to bring down
unpredictable dangers upon
South Africa.
“The leaders of the natives,
encouraged by the news of hap-
penings in Nigeria and the Gold
Coast and elsewhere under
British colonial policy, say
bluntly that they will accept
nothing less than the granting
of full democratic rights enabl-
ing them eventually to take over
the government of the country.
Dr. Malan, in not bowing before
these storms, probably feels that
they may be made to blow in his
favor.”
Astute Politician
“In the eyes of his opponents,”
the writer finally sums-up,
“Dr. Malan is an obstinate old
man who is angered by a hostile
Press and what he regards as
the deliberate misrepresentations
of his enemies, and so will make
no conciliatory gesture.
“They see him as a bigoted
zealot who has closed his mind
to the changes of the post-war
world and still proposes to solve
the problems of the mid-20th
century by the methods of the
mid-19th —a fanatic who has sur-
vived into an age he does not
understand.
“But Dr. Malan is an astute
politician, quick to sense the
emotional atmosphere of his
country and to play upon the
instinct of self-preservation that
always lies near the surface
among Europeans dwelling in a
land in which they are outnum-
bered by non-Europeans.
“The first and last cartridge in
the armory of Malanism is the
maintenance of the supremacy
of the White race. And when
Dr. Malan appeals to the people
he will deny that there is any
other issue. He stands as the
unflinching champion of the
White man, proclaiming his
faith in the righteousness of his
cause and crying like Luther of
old : ‘There I take my stand. I
can do naught else, so help me
God. Amen.’
“To the observer oversea the
Malan policy may seem to be
hag-ridden by color prejudice
and have no moral, ethical or
scientific basis. But those who
know South Africa best will be
least inclined to underestimate
the electoral value of his appeal
to a White race struggling to
survive at the foot of a Black
continent.”
No War, No Peace
Because, just now, it wouldn’t
suit Russia at all there’ll be no
war, and, because this does suit
Russia, there’ll be no peace.
Thus leading American com-
mentator Walter Lippmann, in
New York “Herald Tribune.”
It isn’t, he holds, a matter of
the West’s “containment policy”
having reached the point where
it “contains” Russia, as some
have comforted themselves.
“What,” he says, “seems
much more probable to me is
that, because the Soviet orbit is
already so large that it will
dominate the Eurasian continent
if it is developed and consoli-
dated, the Soviet Government
has decided to let nothing inter-
fere with its development and
its consolidation. A big war
would be a fatal interference.
“And so also would be a big
peace—which, because it re-
laxed the tension, because it cut
holes in the Iron Curtain, and
because it softened-up the com-
rades, would make even more
difficult the difficult task of con-
solidating this enormous empire
—the largest empire in the whole
history of mankind.”
German "Musts"
‘Three guarantees, unam-
biguous and knave-proof,” are
■ r <-(V)
/V/1770V/* 1 - ,
fA NATtC/Sy
C ;
7*"'*
New York “Herald Tribune”
WITCHES’ BREW BOILS AND BUBBLES
listed by “Manchester Guardian”
as essentials in any Western
agreement on reuniting Ger-
many.
First, “freedom” in the Wes-
tern sense and not the Com-
munist sense must exist through-
out the country. Free elections
are the available test of this.
Secondly, the German Gov-
ernment should be reasonably
secure from subversion and have
normal sovereign rights.
Thirdly, the German Govern-
ment, if it wished, could join
defensive alliances and would
not be bound to an unreal policy
of “neutrality.”
Hullo U.N.O. Goodbye
London “Daily Express” ex-
presses itself on a subject which
expressly pains it:
“Today the United Nations
Organisation falters for precisely
the same reasons that made the
League of Nations fail.
“Observe the attitude which
U.N.O. adopts in relation to the
Anglo-Persian dispute. Never
has there been a clearer example
of wrongdoing than the Persian
pillage of British assets at
Abadan.
“But what does U.N.O. do to
uphold the rule of law? It does
nothing. It abdicates from
responsibility.
“If U.N.O. does not even
attempt to right injustice in
Persia, what hope can there ever
be of it saving the peace of the
world on bigger and more
frightening issues?
“The failure of U.N.O. should
be recognised in Britain. It
should be understood that
U.N.O. has degenerated into a
talking-shop which Russia can
use as a platform from which
to hurl abuse and propaganda
at the West. And it should be
realised that from this talking-
shop there is precious little
chance of benefit for Britain.
“If this country wishes to
secure justice for herself there
can be no further relying on in-
ternational organisations or on
pious international resolutions.
The only thing on which to rely
is our own strength and our own
preparedness to make sacrifices
if necessary.”
Reviving Manus
Referring back to Evatt policy
(though too polite to mention
names) “New York Times’’
recalls how, after the war, the
great U.S.-built Manus Island
base was allowed to deteriorate
“primarily because of the
inability of Australia and the
United States to come to any
sort of agreement as to its use”:
“There was a sector of Aus-
tralian opinion that felt that the
United States sought sovereignty
over the island and thus would
impair Australia’s mandate posi-
tion. There was an American
sector of opinion that felt it
profitless to argue over the
matter if the Australians felt that
way about it.
“Both views were shortsighted
and they have now been
corrected. The base may not be
restored to its war-time signi-
ficance, but it will be a useful
position in the total Western
Pacific defence arc. ,
“Even more than that, the
joint use of the base and the
speed with which the agreement
concerning it was reached testify
effectively to the mutuality of
interest and of good faith be-
tween the Australians and our-
selves [i.e., Americans], The
confidence that exists and that
has been demonstrated makes
possible, a far better integration
of Pacific defence than was
apparent in the days immediately
following the close of the war.
“It is well known that the
amount of really co-operative
liaison among the threatened
Powers prior to Pearl Harbor
was woefully small. It has often
been suggested that this lack was
an inviting factor to the Jap-
anese, and that had there been
such a thing as sound joint plan-
ning and demonstrated joint
agreement there would have been
a corresponding deterrent on
Tokyo.
“Be that as it may, the condi-
tion is being remedied, this time.
The joint use of Manus is an
outstanding example of the
remedial process, and for this
reason we welcome it as, we are
sure, so do now the Australians.”
Joint Navy Lingo
The R.N. and the U.S. Navy,
to forestall troubles that could
arise from two allied forces
speaking the same language but
not quite in an identical way, are
now learning a new joint nauti-
cal jargon.
“To the layman,” comments
Baltimore fU.S.A.) “Sun,” “it
seems of small importance that
the British have agreed to spell
‘harbor’ in the American way,
not ‘harbour,’ or that American


1
"W
s*s
ill
Telegrams;
“Esdailson,’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
Esdcrile's 2\x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
9 Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
9 Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
9 Very long eye relief.
9 Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2^x —Eye relief 3jin.
to s£in. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 28ft. per
100 yards.
fjekifa
AND SONS
PTY. LTD
« HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
I
■
mm
CORRECTLY DRESSED!
Why not? No man to-day need be without a
smart, comfortable suit. You CAN now secure
a suit that is ALWAYS correct and right.
Using only pure Australian fleece wool, the
famous Crusader Mills have woven for us
Worsted Cloths of beauty and strength; cloths
guaranteed nefer to fade or shrink. These attrac-
tive cloths, pre-tailored by Stamina into smart,
comfortable D.B. Suits, can be yours for only a
fraction of the cost you would reasonably expect
to pay. Yes, this suit is truly ideal for EVERY
WEAR everywhere. Stamina master-tailored De
Luxe Suits are available now at your own
Stamina Men’s-wear Store. With a rising wool
market and the prospect of a big drop in wool
production, you are certainly wise to buy NOW.
ASK FOR
Stamina cr ,j
U*B PUUS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
S4-M3
seamen will say henceforward
that a flag, pennant or signal
hoisted all the way is ‘close up,’
not ‘two-blocked.’
“The importance of an
identity of terms becomes at
once apparent, however, when
we are told that the American
series of orders required for a
swinging-gate change in drection
for a fleet in columns has given
way to the simple British order
to ‘wheel.’ This is the sort of
small thing that might turn a
battle.”
Austria: No Treaty
Russia’s motives for evading
an Austrian treaty summarised
by London “Daily Telegraph”:
“A treaty would necessarily
mean the evacuation of the
occupying troops, which in turn
would remove two fulcra of
Muscovite power politics.
“In the first place it would
abolish the last vestige of an
excuse for keeping an army of
occupation in Hungary in the
guise of ‘lines-of-communication’
troops. That army is valuable
both as a means of ensuring the
allegiance of the Hungarian
satellite and as a potential threat
to the rebellious Tito across the
border.
“Secondly, evacuation would
spell the end of Communist influ-
ence in Austria and the loss of
the Russian-occupied part of the
country as a military outpost in
the cold war.
“In a word, an Austrian
treaty would conflict with the
ambitions of Soviet Imperialism,
and therefore there must be no
treaty.”
Dragnet Digest
Clang of Arms. —London
“Daily Mail”; “Some people
will not believe that black is
black and white white. We are
moved to that thought by the
mounting clang of rearmament
all over the world.”
A Fig for Logic. —On an early
page an issue of the U.S.
Department of Commerce’s
“Foreign Commerce Weekly”
has an announcement that the
American tariff on Smyrna figs
is being raised by 80 per cent,
by order of President Truman.
On a later page is an account
of the great international trade
fair at Izmir (Smyrna) in which
the American exhibit is based
on the theme: “Turkey and
America —Free World Partners
Working for Peace.” Figs are
one of the chief Greek and
Turkish exports to the U.S.
No War, Joe ? Edward
Crankshaw, commenting in
“New York Times” on fears that
the Moscow Communist conflab
may mean war; “If Stalin
wishes to start an aggressive war
against the West he is the last
man to advertise his intention.
There is no reason to believe, in
fact, that he has any such inten-
tion ; there are many reasons
for believing that he has not.
U.S. “Army Times”
GETTING IT OFF HIS CHEST
There is all the difference in the
world between the possibility
and the probability of war.”
Eagle Over Ostrich. —“Wash-
ington Star,” on the U.S. Repub-
licans’ foreign - policy pro-
gramme : “It means that the
United States, regardless of who
may be the next President, is
firmly committed on a bi-
partisan or non-partisan basis to
a leading role in world affairs
The ostrich people have really
lost their power in America.”
Yalta Fruit. —Secret protocol
in the Yalta deal gave Soviet
Russia control of Manchuria,
aided the Communist conquest
of all China and brought Russia
back to the Yellow Sea. And,
by latest agreement with the
Chinese Corns, Russia is there
to stay. “Not even a Com-
munist China,” comments “New
York Times,” “can dislodge the
Soviets from this strategic
region.”
Japs in Textiles. London
“News Chronicle’s” financial
editor notes that while Japan
has increased cotton spindleage
in the past two years by nearly
3 million it still has only 7 mil-
lion spindles to Lancashire’s 34
million, of which perhaps 20
million are running ; and “This
fact obviously places a definite
limit on Japan’s power to com-
pete in the export markets, and
when we look at the progress of
her exports of cotton piece-
goods in the past two years we
do not find that it has been par-
ticularly alarming.”
Fed-up with Koreas. U.S.
poll-taker Elmo Roper reports
in New York “Herald Tribune”
that a recent poll showed most
Americans willing to have their
sons give up two years of their
lives in the armed sevices, and
even prepared to go along with
the dreary thought of 30 years
of Government controls. “But
a majority of the people balk at
the idea of any more Koreas.”
Ike's Chances.-—For what tip-
ping in U.S. Presidential elec-
tions may be worth, nobody
seems to regard Eisenhower as
past-the-post. The fact that
there are many more registered
Democratic than Republican
voters is frequently mentioned.
Also typical is a comment by a
U.S. correspondent of London
“Observer”: “So far the Repub-
licans have offered nothing which
looks like persuading people
who voted Democratic in 1948
to vote Republican in 1952.”
A German Lord Mayor. —
German Chancellor Adenauer is,
says a London “Fortnightly”
writer, “a product of that nursery
of great administrators, the lord-
mayoralties, which has provided
Germany with many of her
leaders, A German lord mayor,
usually a highly qualified civil
servant, is elected by a city
council, and hired by it, so to
speak, for a term of years. He
is responsible to it and depen-
dent on its votes. But he is
expected to run the city’s affairs
on his own initiative, and to lead
the city council rather than to
carry out its instructions. He is
its masterful servant.”
German Saar Claim. —London
“Economist” report: “All
Germans regard the [Saar]
territory as part of Germany.
They have no more renounced
their claims to it than to the
eastern territories.”
Soviet Subs. —“Many Ameri-
can strategists,” reports a New
York “Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent, “believe that the poten-
tial threat of Soviet Russia’s
huge submarine fleet—the
world’s largest—is equal to, if
not greater than, that of any
other Russian arm.”
American Boast.—' “Wall-street
Journal,” on the tendency to
raise tariffs: “We still boast that
we are the most efficient pro-
ducers in the world, but we
are becoming fearful of the
efficiency of outsiders invading
our home markets.”
Justified Defence. —“If,” com-
ments London “Economist,” “it
is true that a defence programme
will be useless without a firm
economic foundation, it is at
least equally true that a strong
economy is not worth having
unless it can be defended.”
Japs' China Hopes. —“ Ma-
nchester Guardian” correspondent
in Japan: “In spite of all
attempts to play down exag-
gerated hopes, the businessmen
of Osaka, Tokyo and Kobe, and
a large slice of the Japanese-
public, persist in their belief that
China represents a Pandora's
box which, once successfully
opened, would come near to
solving the nation’s economic
problems.”


/CAR'S INSIDE STORY \
w&en M's slifi/Jery F
All right we’re all marvellous drivers!
But let’s be honest; on grease it’s driver plus car
that makes a total. When roads are slippery there’s
that extra safety in a Javelin. A Javelin responds to
your control and sense of touch. You feel the car
taking a grip of the road and you’re grateful. In fog,
too, a Javelin’s short bonnet gives extra visibility.
On good days, when motoring is all fun, there’s
plenty in a Javelin to play with effortless acceleration
(0-50 in 15-4 secs.) and a genuine 80 m.p.h. And you
can cruise along sensing those torsion bars doing what
only torsion bar suspension can do tabumps; relishing
that gear box all the experts praise.
The Javelin is a waste of money if you don’t care what
a car does. There’s such a lot built into it that doesn’t
really show until you have one in your hands real
family comfort economy and performance.
Best speed, electrically timed, 80 m.p.h. Acceleration
0-50 m.p.h. in 15’4 secs. (“The Motor” 1952 Road
Test). Horizontally opposed flat-four engine gives
30 m.p.g.
- ••
The 14 litre
JOWETT JAVELIN
one day —it has to be YOURS !
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Liberty
Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Redman Motors, Brisbane;
B.E.A. Distributors Ltd., Adelaide: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Perth; Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Made by Jowett Cars Limited, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire,
who make the Jowett Jupiter convertible class winner
of 9 major trials and races in 1950/51 and, of course, the
famous range of 8 h.p. Bradford commercial vehicles.
Missing Beneficiary
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
ALLAN GEORGE GREENWAY, formerly
of Perth, Western Australia, age 44 years,
will hear something to his advantage by
communicating with the PERPETUAL
EXECUTORS TRUSTEES AND AGENCY
COMPANY (W.A.) LIMITED, 89 St.
Tnrroofl Porfll
Personal and Missing Friends
TO LESLIE NORMAN BULL Respondent
late of 252 High Street St. Kilda Victoria.
—A Petition for Divorce 1952 (D) No.
230 has been filed against you Upon an
application by letter to THE DISTRICT
REGISTRAR Southampton District
Registry Castle Square Southampton a
copy of the Petition will be sent If
within one month hereafter no application
has been made nor appearance entered
the Court may hear the Petition and pro-
nounce judgment.—E. F. G. RHODES,
Registrar.
WOULD GEORGE PEEKE, husband of
MARGARET PEEKE, or anyone who
knows of his present whereabouts, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zealand?
Divorce Notices
TO PERCY RAYMOND GEORGE
BROWNE Respondent late of 55 St. Johns
Road Fareham Hants. —A Petition for
Divorce has been filed against you Upon
an application by letter to THE DISTRICT
REGISTRAR Southampton District
Registry Castle Square Southampton a
copy of the Petition will be sent If
within one month hereafter no application
has been made nor appearance entered
the Court may hear the Petition and pro-
nounce judgment.—E. F. G. RHODES,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS JOHN SMITH formerly of
Karinya Road Picnic Point.—TAKE
NOTICE that SHIRLEY GWENDOLINE
SMITH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1500 of 1952 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney within 21 days from the
date hereof and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
J. C. HARRIS & CO.. Solicitors, 39-49
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH FREDERICK SHARP late
of Rockdale N.S.W. and JEAN ELVA
CLARK late of Rockdale N.S.W.—TAKE
NOTICE that EILEEN JANE SHARP has
filed a Petition No.-1014 of 1952 praying
for Divorce from KEITH FREDERICK
SHARP on the ground of his adultery with
. JEAN ELVA CLARK If you the said
KEITH FREDERICK SHARP wish to de-
fend you may eater an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 29th day of De-
cember 1952 You the said JEAN ELVA
CLARK may apply to the said Court to
be allowed to defend A copy of the Peti-
tion may be obtained without charge
from GLASHEEN & CO., Solicitors, of
3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC GEORGE TAYLOR formerly of
Bowral.—TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN
TAYLOR has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1197 of 1952 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney before the 29th of De-
cember 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
J. C. HARRIS & CO., Solicitors, 39-49
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
TO DALE ARTHUR McKAY late of 77
Wigram Road Glebe.—TAKE NOTICE
that GWENETH ALICE McKAY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4163 of 1951
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 23rd December 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from HAROLD P. BUSHBY, STEED &
CO., 10 Martin Place, Sydney. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Public Notices
I, GROJNOWSKI, LEJB, of Polish nation-
ality, born at Radziejow, Poland, resident
five years' and six months in Australia,
now residing at No. 6 Flat, 48 Flood
Street, Bondi, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948. ,
1, GROJNOWSKI, REGINA, of Polish
nationality, born at Bendzin, Poland, resi-
dent five years and six months in Aus-
tralia, now residing at No. 6 Flat, 48
Flood Street, Bondi, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
KLG
CORUNDITE
£
G
s'
C
M.
od >
pdss
HO 220
REQUEST A COPY OF
THE K.L.G. RECOMMEND-
ATION BOOKLET FROM
YOUR LOCAL DEALER
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS!
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman), F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
O. O. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Young lady, at present serving with
British Commonwealth Forces in
Japan, six years’ clerical service and
good knowledge of nursing, seeks
position as female station-book-
keeper.—s 346.
Collector of old banknotes would
like to purchase one or more 10s.
notes of early 1920’5; prepared to
pay well. —5345.
To buy The Valley of the Giants
by Peter B. Kyne.—s343.
To buy The Red Pagan by A. G.
Stephens.—s 342.
To buy new or second-hand gramo-
phone record of the song “Juanita” ;
also wanted words of the poem “The
Old Whim House” by Edward Dyson.
—5341.
Words of poem “Sailor Bill Blows
His Cheque.”—s3so.
To buy copy of The Magic Story
by Dey.—s3sl.
To buy copy of On and Off the
Turf in Australia by Nat Gould. —
5348.
To buy books dealing with Northern
Australia and Western Australia, par-
ticularly Kimberley’s History of
Western Australia, De Satge’s Pages
From the Journal of a Queensland
Squatter, Bird’s Early History of
Rockhampton, Buchanan’s Packhorse
and Water hole, John Harcourt’s The
Pearlers, and especially the translation
of Hans Bertram’s Plug in die Hoelle.
—3549.
Information Sought
When was Sydney officially named ?
The city of Sydney takes its name
from Sydney Cove, the spot chosen
and named by Governor Phillip when
he found Botany Bay unsuitable for
settlement. Phillip’s early dispatches
were headed “Sydney Cove,” but
after June 17, 1790, he wrote
“Sydney.” No official proclamation
of the name was made, and although
“Albion” was suggested as a name
for the new town it was never used.
* * * *
(1) What was the first novel pub-
lished at Sydney? (2) Who was the
author ?
The Guardian: A Tale by An Aus-
tralian is regarded as the first novel
published on the mainland of Aus-
tralia. Printed by J. Spilsbury in
1838, the story is set in England and
Ireland, and has little reference to
Australia except in a derogatory tone.
(2) The identity of the author is
unknown, and there is no evidence in
the book which would supply any
clue.
* * * *
Who was the original Brother
Jonathan?
Jonathan Trumbull, Governor of
Connecticut and a friend of George
Washington. The latter, during the
War of Independence, referred to
him so often that the term became
synonymous with “American” until
it was replaced by “Yankee.”
* * * *
Conditions on which the Gas and
Fuel Corporation of Melbourne took
over the late Metropolitan Gas Co.
of that city ?
On December 19, 1950, the Gas
and Fuel Corporation took over the
Metropolitan Gas Company, exchang-
ing for its £1 ordinary share two
fully-paid 4 p.c. preference shares of
£1 each. Metropolitan’s capital was
£1,662,500 in £1 shares; its deben-
tures became a liability of the Cor-
poration. Purpose of the schemewas
to co-ordinate production and distri-
bution of gas in Victoria and develop
resources by gasification of brown
coal at Morwell. Two classes of scrip
(ordinary and preference units) made
up the Corporation’s capital struc-
ture, the ordinary being subscribed
by the Government. Conditions of
the merger affecting the preference
capital were (1) shares were not trans-
ferable to any party other than to
the State except by will and certain
cases of gift; (2) each class of share
carries full voting powers; (3) the
State guarantees the preference divi-
dends for 2\ p.c. p.a. for not less
than 10 years.
* * * *
Where and when was American
boxer Young Stribling born? When
did he begin boxing, and when was
his last contest ? When was Stribling
in Australia, and how many contests
did he have in this country? Is
Stribling still living?
Young Stribling was born at Brain-
bridge, Georgia (U.S.A.), on December
26, 1904. He had his first fight early
in 1921, his last when he outpointed
Maxie Rosenbloom (10 rounds) at
Houston, Texas, on September 22,
1933. Stribling had his first fight in
Australia at Sydney Stadium on July
4, 1932, when he stopped Ambrose
Palmer in 10 rounds. Afterwards he
won from Jack Renault, Frankie
Wine, Johnny Freeman (Stribling then
fought an eight-round “no contest”
with Freeman), Tony Gora and
George Thompson in this country.
Stribling was smashed up in a motor-
cycle accident at Macon, Georgia, on
October 1, 1933, and died from
injuries received two days later.
* * *
What was the actual date of Rod
Quinn's birth ?
He was born on November 26,
1867, at East-street, Woolloomooloo.
Most literary histories and reference-
books give his birth as 1869. He is
said to hlVe brought the date forward
by a couple of years to please his
sisters. It is worth noting also that
the birth certificate at the Registrar-
General’s office also shows that he
was named “Roderick,” and that
both his parents came from Galway,
Ireland.
* * * *
(1) What is dialectical materialism ?
(2) Is “or” or “ nor' correct in the
sentence “Electric clocks never stop
or vary” ?
(1) Dialectics in modern philosophy
is used in several senses. Hegel uses
it in the Socratic sense, to show
inadequacy of popular beliefs; it is
also to him the process of develop-
ment of thought and of history.
Marx coined the term “dialectical
materialism” for his own theory of
.philosophy, which he derived in part
from Hegel. Marx, neither a trained
philosopher nor a natural scientist,
convinced himself that he under-
stood the philosophical implications
of the scientific discoveries of his day.
It seems doubtful whether this
obscure philosophy of Marx (i.e.,
“dialectical materialism”) has any
logical connection with the theory
and practice of Communism, though
believed by Marxists to be the basis
of it. (2) “Or” is correct. The nega-
tive “never” carries on and applies
also to the word “vary”; use of
“nor” would make a double-negative,
which is not intended. The sentence
could perhaps be rewritten, still
avoiding a double-negative: “Electric
clocks never stop nor ever vary.”
Brief Answers
L.W.F.: (1) No. If the two lines-
men are qualified and have been
officially appointed the central
referee must abide by the decision.
(2) He should allow play to proceed.
... ..R.G.: Wardens of the Sea by
E. J. Brady was published by the
Endeavour Press, Sydney, in 1933.
Copies are sometimes available in
second-hand bookshops... .E.J.M.:
Cement and Concrete for the Handy-
man by “Domus,” published by
Robertson and Mullens, 107 Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne... .C.T.: The
Fight for the Ashes, 1950-51 by A. G.
Moyes.,. .8.L.: See Stephen Crane
by John Berryman, published by
ivietliuen, London... .A.H.: Coro-
mandel Coast is the name given to
the east coast of India, between Cape
Calimere and the mouth of Kistna
River... .C.0’8.: Write Australian
Broadcasting Commission, 264 Pitt-
street, Sydney... .W.C.: The Illustra-
tion of Books by David Bland, pub-
lished by Faber, London... .J.F.F.:
Write Gaston C. Renard, antiquarian
bookseller, P.O. Box 529588, G.P.0.,
Melbourne... .W.M.: The Australian
Gardener by Leslie H. Brunning,
obtainable from Robertson and
Mullens, Melbourne... .C.S.J.; The
verse “Banjo” was written by E. W.
Harrington, and appeared in The
Bulletin of February 19, 1941....
F. : Grimmett on Cricket by C.
V. Grimmett, obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney; price, 10s. 6d. (post, Is. Id.).
J.C.P.: Mary E. Fullerton died
on February 23, 1946... .E.A.T.;
Write Poultry Expert, Department of
Agriculture, Farrer-place, Sydney
T.S.W.: The cloth-cover edition of
Phil May in Australia sells for £2 25.,
and the paper-cover edition for £1 Is.
N.D.P.: Joseph Schmidt starred
in both, and they were released by
British International Pictures in
approximately 1935.... A.A.: The
Australian Broadcasting Commission
advises that the two mam programmes
which carry children’s stories are the
“Tinies” section of the children’s
session and “Kindergarten of the
Air.” Stories are only read for the
benefit of very young children, say,
up to the age of seven, and the maxi-
mum length is some six minutes....
E.D.8.: Question is too vague, but
full information on the subject could
be obtained from the Australian
Wheat Board, 515 Collins-street,
Melbourne, if you were to communi-
cate with them setting out the specific
data required R.J.K.: See article
“Kendall and Rose Bennett” by T.
Thornton Reed in “Biblionews” for
September, 1952, obtainable from
Walter Stone, 64 Young-street,
Cremorne (N.S.W.) E.G.: Joseph
Conrad by Oliver Warner in the “Men
and Books” series, published by
Longmans, London M.O’R.: The
poem was called “A National Hymn,”
and was written by Stefan von Kotze.
It appeared in The Bulletin of June
6, 1896... .C.E.D.: The Southern
Garland, published by The Bulletin
in 1904, now sells in second-hand
bookshops at 30s. each... .8.L.8.:
Write York Fiction-Feature Service,
Box 4831, G.P.0., Sydney....S.M.:
Mary and Elizabeth Durack are joint
authors of the following books:
Allabout, Chunuma, Son of Djaro,
Piccaninnies, The Way of the Whirl-
wind, Nungalla and Jungalla, and The
Magic Trumpet... .W.McK.: Francis
Webb’s “A Drum for Ben Boyd”
appeared in three instalments on
“The Red Page” of The Bulletin,
July 6, 13 and 20, 1946... .W.F.G.:
See article “British Military Regi-
ments in Australia” by M. H. Ellis
in “Royal Australian Historical
Society Journal and Proceedings,”
vol. 37, part 6....W.P.M.: Write
Fleet .‘Welders Pty., Ltd., 126 Bourke-
road, Alexandria (N.S.W.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
P.W.: Congratulations upon its
win in the local eisteddfod and its
publication in the local weekly, but
it is, nevertheless, not Bulletin
material J.V.R.: Reads like a
title-index to an anthology of poems.
D.A.H.: You have some distance
to go yet....E.P.: More suited for
a women’s journal E.M.C.; Duly
noted that you have established the
fact that “Life is like a mighty river.”
J.N.: Our answer to that is
a thunderous “No!” R.0.D.:
There’s a poem in the subject, but
it calls for different treatment....
Our mouth is still watering
at the thought of sleak-and-onions.
L.L.H.: Reads like a thousand-
- and - one other old - bush - school
poems written by poets who have
long left school... .A.K.: Not taking
the collection-plate around for that
effort E.A.8.; “Saltbush Bill” was
buried with appropriate pomp and
ceremony W.S.: Nothing stirring
about them J.P.R.: You failed to
capture the loveliness of the daffodil,
. ...R.E.F.; We can spare space for
the last stanza of your comment on
the suggested use of child psychology
in rearing calves:
The cow that’s stubborn, cross and tough.
111-mannered and uncouth.
You may be sure was treated rough
In very early youth.
So when she kicks the cow-bails bare.
With her success elated.
Don’t just stand there and curse and
swear,
Remember she’s frustrated,
. ...E.M.F.: That it comes from
New Zealand is no reason why it
should sound far-fetched... .T.A.W.:
Much too raw material R.J.H.:
If only you could invent an inven-
tion to end comic professors’ inven-
tions! M.L.; Everyone is talking
New Australian, but few as well as
New Australians M.M.: A bit
light on the weight E.C.0.:
“Toby’s Chair” not one of ours
L.J.N.: “The sea in all its stark
reality” seems to have been too busy
to write a story 8.L.: Doesn’t
make a story 0.P.F1.: What you
have gained by observation you have
lost by telepathy Z.V.W.: A'good
idea, but you worried the senses out
of it H. 8.: Sorry, .but the menace
that turns out to be an animal in the
last sentence may as well be in the
zoo unto us K.H.; Fair enough,
but the rule seems to be that when
the story hinges on an improbability
it must be treated as farce... .8.C.:
“Lost Art” was a bright idea, but,
as you say, lost art H.C.: You
have to be more shocking than that
to shock people about politicians.


GOOD
FIRE
INSURANCE
• w
&
-
NEVERTIRE
BUSHFIRE FIGHTERS
MADE IN 6 MODELS
Output Up To 10 g.p.m.
The illustration shows the "NEVERTIRE" STANDARD
with a 2 h.p, Lister Hopper-Cooled Engine and a No. 697
Nevertire double-acting high pressure Pump. Capacity
61 g.p.m. at 2001 b. pressure. Equipped with 2 60ft.
lengths -1" high pressure hose, director rods and i“ jet
nozzles. Self fiiHng 25/30 g.p.m.
Also available in the "SENIOR" (with 31 h.p. Lister
Engine and 200-gail. tank). The "SUPER" (with duplex
pump and 5 h.p. Lister Engine) and the portable
REGENT, J 14 F and J 24 F models.
Don’t Delay v
REDUCE YOUR FIRE RISK
By Contacting
DANGIR, GEDYE & MAUOCH LID.
10-14 Young Street, Sydney (Near Circular Quay).
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
is it, Ella?’ she said, ‘Good
heavens, girl, what is it?’ And
Ella'could only keep screaming
‘Mother’s took it!’ ‘Took
what?’ said the missus. They
were all running back to Gant’s
place now, and Ella at last said,
‘He left it on the kitchen shelf.’
“Well, you can guess what
had happened—Gant had left a
bottle of arsenic for spraying
on the shelf, and she had taken
a swig. Of course, they tried to
show that she took it by mistake,
and all that sort of thing, as
they always do in cases of this
sort. For all the good that
does.”
“Was she?”
“I’ll say she was. Dead as a
doornail when the wife and
Jinny got there, Gant himself
wasn’t at home, and when he
got home he took it pretty well.
Didn’t break his heart over it,
as any decent man would have
done.”
“What did he leave the stuff
there for?”
“Now you’re asking. That’s
just what I said at the time —
what did he leave the poison
there for? Sticking it right
under her nose like that. You
can’t prove things like that, of
course. But it’s funny, leaving
things like that about.”
“They didn’t?”
“Not a thing. They couldn’t.
Just a verdict of accidental
death. But I will say this; they
used to hang people for a jolly
sight less in the good old days.”
“And Gant himself?”
“He snuffed it. Just on two
years ago. Got a growth—and
no wonder, with all the plonk
he used to get through. Took
him years to go. Pretty tough
he was, but he had to turn it in
at last.”
“Well, fvell! So that was the
end of Gant. I was just thinking
of those horses that time,”
“That was funny. I’ve often
laughed over that. There he
was blubbering like a kid”
< ‘ A ND there was Billy Bray—
S' what’s he doing?”
“Nothing. Which is twice as
much as he always did.”
“He’s not ... is he?”
“No fear — he’s still alive. But
blind as a bat now. You re-
member those big thick glasses
he used to wear—made his eyes
look like bubbles?”
“Lord, yes. I remember.”
“Well, he doesn’t need to wear
them any more. Gets a thump-
ing big pension, and his old
woman works the place. She
always had to, anyway. There
was never much to Bill Bray,
if you ask me.”
“Still, being blind must be
pretty stiff.”
“For a decent bloke it would
be, I suppose. But as for Bill
Bray”
Wiseman left the sentence un-
finished —to indicate, perhaps,
that if ever a piece of Divine
justice was sought for, it was
unnecessary to go any further
than Bill Bray and his blindness.
“How’s old Jammie Wilson?”
“Now, there’s a man I always
had a good word for. Mind
you, Jammie was mean as mus-
tard, and Jammie would do you
in the eye as soon as look at
you. But Jammie had his points.
They got him in the end.”
“Who did?”
“The Egg Board people.
Terrible pigheaded and stubborn
Jammie was. Always said he’d
buck the Egg Board. Wouldn’t
send his eggs to the board. I
said often, ‘Jammie, they’ll get
you!’ And Jammie would say,
‘Not before I get them!’ He
used to keep hundreds of birds,
—some special sort of cross-
breds, he reckoned. Just as a
sideline at first. When the board
got going Jammie took no notice
of them. Damned if he’d send
his eggs to the board, or any-
thing like that. He’d sell his
eggs as he’d always done. Not
that I blame him for feeling
like that.
“So the board summonsed
him, and of course Jammie lost.
Then they got him again. People
bought his eggs because he was
underselling for spite. They'd
come in cars on Sundays and
buy Jammie’s eggs. Jammie said
he’d give the flaming eggs away
before he’d send them to the
board. But it seemed that he
couldn’t do that, even. The eggs
weren’t his at all —that’s what
it amounted to. Jammie used to
talk to the hens about it —tell
them all about the board and
how he and them would beat
the board yet. He’d make
speeches to the fowls at all
manner of times, especially when
he fed them. He used to love
hearing them chuckle —reckoned
they were agreeing with him.
Often you’d see Jammie with a
white hen on his knees talking
away to her, with her sitting
there as quiet as you like and
listening to every word. No
great harm in that, either. So it
was a geat pity that he saw fit
to shoot the policeman.”
“Good heavens!”
1 <\\JATT till I tell you. The
W board sent the policeman
out to arrest Jammie.”
“And Jammie killed him!”
“No. The policeman wasn’t
so badly hurt —only a few grains
of shot in the legs. But they
took Jammie off just the same
to Gladesville or somewhere.
But I will say this: apart from
the policeman, Jammie was only
cracked on that one point—eggs.
Sound enough and cunning
enough on every other point.
There are plenty of people out-
side the asylum not half as sen-
sible as Jammie.”
“Will he ever get right, do you
think?”
“Doubt it very much. It’s
gone too deep for that. And
that reminds me: there was a
cousin of the wife’s —second-
cousin really—used to think he
was Governor of New Zealand,
and you should have seen the
letters he wrote to the Home
Government. Really wonderful
letters they were —as Governor.
And the funny thing was, all the
time he knew he wasn’t the
Governor, and yet he thought
he was. It worried him awful
that he thought so.
“Then his people faked a
letter from the Home Govern-
ment to dismiss him as Governor
of New Zealand; but that only
made him a lot worse, so they
had to put him away. Good
thing, though, that his trouble
came from his father’s side and
there was none of it on the
wife’s side at all. But I don’t
think Jammie will ever get
better, not even if the board was
done away with. Which isn’t
likely. Jammie’s there for keeps.”
“What a pity!”
“It is, in a way. But they say
he’s quite happy. You see,
they’ve got him looking after
fowls, and that makes him think
he’s beating the board. In any
case, I’ve got his place here, and
it’s not a bad little place, either.
I don’t bother with fowls.”
“I’m sorry to hear that of
Jammie Wilson.”
“It’s bad luck, I suppose,
though it could be worse.”
Wiseman stood up to stretch
his legs. “Will you come up to
the house and see Kate and the
kids?”
Jack looked at Eric, and Eric
glanced at the sun. “Better not,
Harry, much as I’d like to.
Friend here has to get back.
Love to next time, though.”
“Kate’s all right,” said Wise-
man. “Though she does take
after her mother a bit. People
are funny. You never quite
know how to take them.”
I T was nearly a quarter of a
A mile up to Wiseman’s house.
It seemed better to leave it till
next time—if there were ever a
next time. Jack looked at the
gentle slope adjoining Wise-
man’s. It was once the bungally
scrub which he and old Tully
had slogged in. The bungally
was gone, every stick of it, and
a fine bed of lemons grew in
its place. “Old Tully and his
boys?” he said reflectively.
“Never showed up here
again,” said Wiseman, “But I
heard his boys got into trouble
of some sort about using other
people’s cars. There was a
stretch of jail to it, too. Still,
I don’t wonder at that.”
“The old chap?”
“Never heard rightly. He’s
dead, of course, now. Fell off a
train, but whether he was pushed
off or just fell off they don’t
seem to know. He was terribly
drunk at the time.”
“Killed?”
“Oh, he was killed all right.
Cut to pieces, he was. What he
didn’t know about clearing was
quite a deal.”
The relevance of this to fall-
ing off trains was not very clear.
“And, by the way, Harry —
Davie?”
“Ha! Hung round here for
years, like the smell of bad
petrol on your best suit. Till he
got into trouble over one of
the Gawthofne girls—the red-
headed one, and she was a
proper goer, she was. After
that we didn’t see Davie any
more. He was no loss when he
went.”
“The other end of Temple-
ton’s quite a town now, Harry.”
“And who’s to blame for that?
The orchardists themselves. Cut-
ting up their farms into building
blocks. Just a town, as you say.
All the old orchards gone, and
the bush with them. Makes me
sick when I see it.”
“Not nearly out as far as you
yet.”
“It’s coming closer every
day. I tell you, I don’t like it.
This is all good orchard country,
and was never meant for town-
building. That’s the sort of
Government we’ve got to put
up with. Run by the Com-
munionists, if you ask me.”
“You’re going to stick it out
yourself?”
“Too right I am. I won’t sell.
In any case, we’re a bit far out.
They’re not offering any town
prices for land here. Not decent
prices. I told them straight
they’re not getting a foot of
mine—not under £5OO an acre.
Take it or leave, I said. And
that gives pretty cheap building
land. I’m staying right here, I
said. And if they wait till next
year, as like as not I’ll be asking
half as much again. If they
want to shove the town right on
top of us they’ll have to pay a
decent price.”
“Well, have to be going,
Harry. Glad to have seen you,
my word.”
They shook hands. Wiseman
watched Jack hobble to the car,
and reflected, no doubt, that the
lumbago and the bronchitis
might well be the thin end of
the wedge, as it were. Though
as specimens of the ailments
they were pretty poor, too. Not
in it with such outstanding
examples as the wife’s uncle or
his own auntie. On his part.
Jack felt somewhat put down
his pride in his maladies had
been humbled,
ERIC swung the big car round
and the pair waved to Wise-
man as they passed. Wiseman
saluted gravely, standing erect,
sound and solid as the everlast-
ing hills over which Time had
stumbled in its years, leaving
only Wiseman, unchanged and
untouched, except to make him
a trifle more youthful. Nearly
all his old contemporaries, ac-
quaintances and enemies com-
fortably and joyfully consigned
to hell or madhouse, or blind-
ness or train-wheels or arsenic
sprays. Only Wiseman left.
Wiseman and Eternity.
In the gathering shades of
evening they sped through the
raw newness of Templeton. A
horrible place at any time of
day, but more depressing in the
evening, which was made for
the quiet of the countryside.
“I’ve had it,” said Jack. And
after a pause, “Never again!”
Twenty years! It might have
been a hundred . . . And in a
hundred years from now Wise-
man would still be standing at
that corner-post. Jack knew he
would. Yes, Wiseman! He’d
still be there, and within him all
the mocking irony of the gods,
all the malevolence of fate.
Jack said again, “I’ve had it.”
Eric sped on, and seemed to
understand.


Tom
OQ 00 6
•• H-'
Epaimig
'jVSy3A /Nn
outstanding!
When you buy a Nuffield Universal with 6-way power, you
own a completely equipped tractor with all the power you
need - where you need it! Swinging drawbar, belt pulley,
power take-off, hydraulically-operated 3-point linkage system
and full electrical equipment make the Nuffield tractor a
versatile, economical “task force" in itself! You'll appreciate,
too, Nuffield's five forward speeds, ranging from 1 to 18
m.p.h., that save you time between jobs and money on the
job! Equivalent of a 10-horse team, the Nuffield Universal
uses as little as 1-1/3 gallons dlf fuel per hour under normal
working conditions. Obtainable in both Kerosene and
“Cold Start” Diesel-operated Models.
IT HAS EVERYTHING! IT DOES EVERYTHING!
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: FLINDERS MOTORS LTD. South
Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
gd
NTI 0.24.52
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALI
3
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA] PTY, LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, N.S.W.
GIMBELS MAIL ORDER • GIMBELS MAIL ORDER
FREE Catalogue
listing over 200 items of Gimbels Guaranteed Goods, covering
Men’s, Women’s and Children’s Clothing, Toys, Household Hard-
ware, Kitchenware, Leather and Travel Goods, Fishing Gear, Clocks,
Stoves, Refrigerators, Mirrors, Woodworking Machinery, Plastic
Baths, Sinks, etc., “Gimbol” Detergent, Book Section and many
other miscellaneous items.
Write for your copy TODAY to Dept A.
'faXXtthcXfi for Guaranteed Goods
J pty. LTD. ■■■" "
43-49 HARDWARE ST., MELBOURNE *P.O. BOX 2472* PHONE: MU3586
WE GUARANTEE TO REFUND YOUR MONEY IF NOT SATISFIED
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
FAT LAMBS
“M.”; On improved, top-
dressed pastures in Victorian
districts with a 20in. to 30in.
fat-lamb production is
more profitable than wool-
growing alone.
At Rutherglen research-station,
for . the period May to
November, two large-framed
ewes and their lambs are carried
per acre of improved pasture
(including sub-clover). Enough
paddock-feed remains to carry
the ewes and unsold lambs from
December to April.
Heavier stocking would have
resulted in poorer fattening of
lambs, less wool per ewe and
the need for heavy hand-feeding
in some seasons ; stocking at a
lighter rate would have produced
larger lambs but a smaller total
of meat and wool.
In 1940 a series of experiments
in fat-lamb raising was begun at
Rutherglen, and fat-lamb mothers
numbering 100 in each of the
following groups were tested:
Border - Leicester - Merino,
Romney - Merino, Corriedale-
Merino, Polwarth. Conclusions
were: (a) Border-Leicester ewes
produced heavier lambs of better
quality and more valuable than
the other three groups, ( b ) there
was no significant difference be-
tween lambs produced by
Romney - Merino ewes and
Corriedale-Merino ewes, (c)
lambs from Polwarth ewes did
not compare favorably with those
from the other matings.
Merino Lamb Percentages
“W.W.S.”: A check on the
lambing of Merino ewes at
Chiswick, the C.5.1.R.0.
research-station at Armidale
(N.S.W.), has shown that 16 per
cent, of the lambs of a normal,
well-fed flock die between birth
and marking, most of them on
the first, second and third day.
They die because they lack the
strength and vigor to get on their
feet and suck. The Chiswick
staff believe this loss could be
halved if the ewes were given
individual attention ; they quote
examples of local graziers who
obtain 90 to 100 per cent, of
lambs by lambing their ewes in
sheds or very small paddocks.
Shelter-sheds and pens have
been erected and will be tried
out at Chiswick next lambing.
However, the Chiswick con-
sultative committee, which con-
sists of graziers, takes the view
that giving the ewes individual
attention when lambing only
perpetuates the ewes that are
bad mothers, a rather poor view
for obvious reasons.
Nivison, of Mirani, discards
all maiden ewes that fail to lamb,
and claims that Doolin, of North
Star, obtained 100 to 110 per
cent, by this method. Nivison
allows hip ewes to lamb com-
pletely undisturbed, no one go-
ing into the paddocks until
marking-time.
Geoff Forster, of Abington,
removes from his flock maiden
ewes which do not lamb and
mates them separately the fol-
lowing year. He obtains about
60 per cent, of lambs from these
ewes. He adds the ewes which
lamb to the flock and sells those
which fail to lamb. He has
raised his average lambing to
86 per cent, by these methods.
Pearl Millet
“Setaria”: Pearl or bulrush
millet is the most popular variety
for grazing under good summer-
rainfall conditions in southern
U.S.A. It produces 50 per cent,
more feed for stock than any
other annual summer fodder.
For the Australian farmer its
only fault is that, unless heavily
stocked, it grows somewhat
fibrous, unpalatable and not
nutritious. The Australian dairy-
farmer does not like such a
fodder crop. The area may be
too large for the herd to keep the
crop down to young, palatable,
highly nutritious feed, and
nothing is done to convert
surplus growth into more diges-
tible and nutritious fodder in the
form of silage.
So, less productive use of the
land is made by growing other
crops which, when neglected or
“Better buy a toothbrush, Dave. Mum's crooked on yer
using ’er steel-wool."
insufficiently grazed, are less
objectionable in their surplus
growth.
An All-purpose Shed
“Ngaduri”; When we took
over a small property in South
Australia there was a shed which
had been built as a stable and
buggy-shed. The part where the
buggy was kept had been very
roughly concreted and was in
use as a garage, adjoining which
was the groom’s-room, with a
chaff-house behind it and four
stalls at the end.
Our plan for the farm was to
carry sheep as the mainstay—
about 400—and a small Frisian
stud of dairy-cattle; and as we
were fussy about our horses it
was important that the building
should also stable our two hacks.
Beginning with the groom’s-
room, which had an excellent
floor and was the obvious place
for the shearing-board, we made
it the centre from which to work.
As the building was of
wood-and-iron construction it
was a simple matter to take oft
two sheets and replace them with
a louvre-window above and a
porthole below for the let-out.
The garage-floor was taken out
completely, and replaced with
well-levelled concrete into which
bearers were placed to take a
jarrah-floor, so necessary for
clean working with wool. A
portable steel press was bought,
and portable wool-bins were con-
structed which could be taken
apart and folded up against the
wall. The wool-table was of the
light tubular steel variety and it,
too, would fold-up and could be
stored out of the way.
The horse-stalls were then
fitted with sheep-gratings which
were hinged into position so that
they lifted up and formed a
barrier between the two stalls;
for cleaning, this was a great
asset. The chaff-house was given
a concrete-floor to mouse-proof
it, and then was divided into
two parts, one of which became
a grain-room.
The division between the other
two stalls was taken out com-
pletely and the whole area
concreted to become two cow-
bails and a small dairy, which
was quite sufficient for the eight
head. All the area of the stall,
with the exception of the dairy,
was made sheep-proof, and is
capable of holding about 120
woollies —not as many as we
would like, but that will do until
we can build more.
It is often a bit difficult to
work when the sheep have
occupied the cows’ portion of
the shed overnight, as the
bedding has to be shifted out
and the place hosed down before
the cows can be convinced that
it is safe to enter. But, as shear-
ing lasts at most four days, this
is comparatively little bother.
The important thing is that
there is no part of this shed
which is not used for some
purpose every day of the year.
It is very convenient /or those
jobs, and, although it is a little
inconvenient for working sheep
at shearing-time, it is convenient
for handling the wool.
Dehorning
“Jersey”: A. W. Greig, a
dairyfarmer at Bergalia (N.S.W.),
is very satisfied with his de-
horned herd, says R. M. March,
a Bega dairy-expert, because:
More cows can be accommo-
dated in the inner yard, thus
saving time and 500yds. per day
walking around cows.
Cows come into the bails more
willingly.
There are less trouble and
upsets while milking cows.
Tangling horns in milk-line
rubbers and pulling claws off is
now eliminated.
Feeding cows at the head of
the bails is much safer.
B.H.C. in Sugar Plants
“Beroo”: The recommended
method of using B.H.C. (benzene
hexachloride) for control of
greyback-beetle grubs in cane-
fields is to apply it in the plant-
crop three to five months after
the cane has started to stool and
while the planting furrows are
still fairly open. Either 751 b. of
20 per cent, dust or 1501 b. of
10 per cent, is placed on the
sides of the furrow, and covered
to a depth of Bin. or so by sub-
sequent cultivation.
Many farmers, with an eye to
saving costs, have asked why the
application could not be com-
bined with the planting or
fertilising operation. The answer
was given by Sugar Bureau
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The recent strong sunspot eruption produced increased
rains for this part of spring, but the pattern of them is
still distinctly the same as for the same period in 1916. This
shows that the normal Bruckner cycle is maintaining its
action as the principal control of the present cyclical
repetition. Under the same cyclical law there is now due a
period of fine, warm but not hot weather lasting about ten
days and followed by further good rains lasting into
November.


RABBITS
CAN'T RESIST
NEW DECOY
Any poison will kill the “Bunny” IF
you can get him to take it. It is the
DECOY that counts. Years of n | v ®£"
ending research and a total of
experiments have produced a Rabbit
Decoy that the “Bunny” won t re-
sist. and can’t resist. Results have
proved it. Testimonials from grate-
ful and satisfied users all over Aus-
tralia have proved it.
“Lurex” Lures are supplied to the
Dept, of Lands (Queensland Goveni-
ment), proof again that “LUREX
IS BEST.
NOW! We Offer You
“LUREX 980”
a New, better “Lurex” with the new
secret ingredient, a substance in-
vented by nature herself.
Now you can trick Mr. Rabbit no
matter what bait you use —oats,
apples, thistle roots—it’s all the
same if you add a few drops of
“LUREX 980” to every batch.
“LUREX” has always been the only
Rabbit Lure ever sold under Money
Back Guarantee. Summer or winter,
green or dry. feed, “LUREX 980”
NEVER FAILS.
DON’T waste time and money on
old-fashioned “Decoys”—
Send right now for
“LUREX 980”
Bottle sufficient for thousands
of baits—22/6, Post Free.
“LUREX” Fox and Dingo Lure,
21/6.
“L.L.33” World’s fastest Dingo
Poison, kills within 1 0 yards after
Fox or Dingo takes bait-
72/6 for 500 Baits.
MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES
(Aust.)
BOX 844, G.P.0., Sydney
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLVSNATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
-
>c
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it I
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGtiA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
for f TOO nirrofrof or!
■DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty„ Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing. Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA; Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND : Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31 / 6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under lib.
weight.
associated
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS.
Tribune Street, South Brisbane.
Queensland.
%
I
*
%
*
*
%
\
i ‘'l
YOUR GUESTS...
%
Certainly Aga cooks by itself, and also
keeps a meal hot almost indefinitely,
without spoiling delicious food. A
Nobel Prize Winner designed this
immaculate and faultless Cooker, which
is always alight and ready for use.
Thanks to its perfect insulation, it
keeps the kitchen clean and cool. The
Aga makes no fumes; in fact, it’s just
like owning a coke-burning angel!
May we send you particulars?
WHILE
YOUR
AGA
COOKS
THE
DINNER
eu>V C *T‘
THE
AGA
COOKER
uhuW*-
a ' a ,^maXeV'a'
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents
for the AGA COOKER one/ BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
_____ 45 King Street, Sydney
_ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
, 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
_ _ _ _ Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
_A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
NEW SOUTH WALES .
VICTORIA _ _ _
QUEENSLAND _ _
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _
WEST AUSTRALIA _
TASMANIA _ _ _
SB
Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
lipg;
i
mm
s*S?
s 5«
SiSS
ss a
Men fifee Alt TILLEY TaMe Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic only H pints of Kero for
12 hours' light —it is safe —it cannot spill—-U is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores,
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
("THE QUEEN")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
entomologist G. Wilson, in trials
in the Cairns district.
He found that when the
B.H.C. was mixed with the plant-
ing fertiliser the chemical so
damaged the cane-roots that
normal fertiliser uptake suffered
and poor crops resulted; the
same thing happened whether the
8.H.C.-fertiliser mixture was
placed at plant-depth or buried
below the bottom of the furrows.
Comparable yields of cane were
21 tons per acre for the orthodox
treatment and 14 for the mixed.
Some Fallacies
“Old Nick”: Some mistaken
ideas about animal diseases die
hard. One common one is that
if a cow is tubercular her calf
can’t escape that disease. Calves
are rarely born with t.b. or
develop it up to one year. On
the other hand a calf reared on
a t.b. cow can contract it from
the milk.
Belief that the milk of a cow
fed on ergot-affected pastures is
dangerous to human health is
another fallacy. Toxic content
from the ergot is never excreted
in the milk even when the animal
is suffering badly from the
poison.
Increasing the strength of
antiseptics to make them more
effective is a dangerous practice.
Strong disinfectants may kill
bacteria, but they irritate the
tissues and retard healing.
Guessing at the dose can cause
much suffering.
Inability of a horse to pass
urine does not indicate kidney
trouble. A horse with colic has
the same symptoms, usually
caused by lack of proper feed-
ing and watering. Few horses
have weak kidneys.
Recovery of an animal cannot
always be credited to a patent-
medicine. All animals have
natural powers of recovery from
disease, and the medicine given
may have had little to do with
improvement. Right diagnosis
of a complaint is the first
essential in a cure.
A Warning!
“C.S.”: Farmers who ignore
recommended precautions when
using parathion are taking big
risks, says D. L. Ford, of Taub-
mans, Ltd. He said a vegetable-
grower near Brisbane lapsed into
semi-consciousness after using
a parathion-dust on his crop.
“Parathion is an excellent
insecticide when used properly
and we can’t do without it,” said
Ford. “It is the main weapon
against red-mite in apples, pears
and beans. But parathion is a
highly toxic nerve poison, and
can be absorbed into the body
through the eyes, nose, mouth
and skin.”
Symptoms of parathion
poisoning, in order of occur-
rence, are headache, weakness,
nausea, vomiting and abdominal
cramps; and dizziness, nervous-
ness and anxiety. There are
medical claims that symptoms
can occur as long as two years
after use of the poison.
Until recently parathion was
usually supplied to farmers only
as a liquid concentrate. This
was diluted to a spray containing
about 0.01 per cent, parathion.
If this got on the skin it could
be easily washed off. Now, how-
ever, powders are frequently
used containing as much as 15
per cent, parathion. A careless
man can easily sniff up the
poison from his hands or let it
spread over his skin.
There is little danger in using
parathion when rubber garments
and respirators are worn. In Vic-
toria legislation has made use of
such equipment compulsory.
The Wool Year
“R. Ney”: As far as can be
discovered Dalgety’s 54th
“Annual Wool Review” for
1951-52 hasn’t missed a trick.
It surveys in detail every aspect
of the wool industry at home
and abroad, goes thoroughly
into related and opposed fibres,
and backs it all with a mass of
statistics that fill out the picture.
The review points out that
though Australia’s wool cheque
was £636,3 million in the
“fabulous” 1950-51 season, at
an average of 144.19 d. per lb.,
its cheque for 1951-52 at £307.78
million (72.42 d. per lb.) was still
over £2l million more than for
1949-50, and the second-highest
on record. What the “fabulous”
year did to the world textile
economy is made very clear —
only now is some stability re-
appearing.
Nobody interested in wool
should be without the review.
Aged Cows Profitable
“Silento”: The number of
middle-aged dairy-cows being
sold as beef is tragic. Most
farmers consider milk yield
decreases after about five years ;
actually it increases on the basis
of feed consumed. Provided a
cow comes from good producing
parents, has a milker’s conforma-
tion such as a well-balanced,
strongly-attached udder, ample
space for lung development and
an efficient digestive system, plus
a balanced ration, she can be
profitably retained for twice the
usual period—l 2 to 15 years.
A Danish study reveals that
the pounds of milk per pound of
feed increased about 50 per cent,
for a cow 5i years of age com-
pared with a cow years old,
while cows that continue to
produce up to 12 years of age
yielded twice as much milk per
unit of feed as cows 3£ years of
age.
Considering the high cost of
feed, this emphasises the import-
ance of breeding and manage-
ment aimed at maintaining cows
over a long period of years.
Profitable dairying is measured
by the amount of milk produced
per pound of feed consumed ;
the greater the yield the bigger
the cheque.
The holder of the world’s milk
record, Manningford Faith Jan
Graceful, owned by R. and H.
Jenkinson, of Oxfordshire
(Eng.), has started another lacta-
tion period at the age of 144
years. Her total yield prior to
calving was 289,7631 b.
Hints for the Farm
“C.A.A.”; A test reveals that
benzene hexachloride is superior
to D.D.T. for control of
harlequin - bug. It proved
that the chemical not only kills
the bugs by direct contact, but
leaves a persistent residue on the
plants. Bugs coming from near-
by sprayed areas for several days
after spraying are killed by this
residue.
“Old G.”: Offcuts of caneite
make a substitute for boards. A
tool-box which had a new
bottom put in it was flooded.
The caneite absorbed the
water until it was like a sponge,
but dried out as hard as ever.
“Spes”: If you want results
from your stud bull have an
attendant who makes a friend
of the animal and keeps him
happy. Don’t let a stranger
handle him and don’t knock
him about. English experts
have found more infertility
caused by bulls being unhappy
and frightened than by any other
factor.
“Plasmo”: Club-root of
cabbage and related plants is
best controlled by lime and
mercurous chloride in combina-
tion. The drier the soil the more
effective the treatment.
“Hux”: Molybdenum is
important to sub.-clover. It helps
the bacteria resident in the
nodules to fix the nitrogen.
Even if the nodules are plentiful
on the roots no nitrogen is fixed
if molybdenum supplies are run
down.
“H.C.”: The horse that eats
bark is not getting enough
minerals in its feed. A good
lick of lewt. of salt, 251 b. of
sterilised bonemeal and 11b. of
iron sulphate will break the
habit. To build up condition
generally, feed a small ration of
dry bran and green lucerne daily.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Farm Houses
One of the best practical measures to
emerge from the talk of increased agri-
cultural production is the rural-home plan
being carried out by the S.A. Housing
Trust by direction of the Playford Gov-
ernment. Its purpose is to build addi-
tional homes on farms and other agri-
cultural properties for employees, and
sometimes for owners of new farms. The
first houses are already nearly finished.
These homes will be built anywhere
in the State, and the trust is also prepared
to build houses in country towns for
municipal and district councils and other
employers of labor prepared to buy homes
for their employees.
There are two designs— two- or three-
bedrooms—each with properly-equipped
bathroom and laundry, a stainless-steel
sink, cupboards and wired for electricity.
There is a contract price. Materials
and components are supplied from the
trust’s Adelaide depot and the trust con-
tracts with the builder. Hundreds of
farmers and other country people have
applied for the homes. Ten a month are
going out. Prices are about £1550 for
the smaller house shipped up to 100
miles from Adelaide, and £2385 for the
big job. Four weeks completes the small
job and eight weeks the big one.
This is a lead the other States might
well follow. —J. C. (S.A.).
Teachers and the P.S. Board
Having won a £65-a-year rise for
teachers and dutifully elected one of its
members as a delegate to the “peace con-
ference,” the N. S. Wales Teachers’
Federation has turned its attention to the
Public Service Board. It is pressing for
an “education commission,” the majority
of whose members are to be selected by
the Federation.
The Federation’s objections to the
P.S. Board may be many and reasonable,
but the only ones made public so far
include the case of a teacher who criti-
cised the board in a letter to a news-
paper (a private employer would probably
sack any employee who made a similar
criticism), and the fact that the teachers’
pay rise' was only £65 while the board
received one of £5OO.
Teachers should reckon themselves
lucky that they have an employing body
as detached as the P.S. Board. Inde-
pendent, the board serves as a buffer be-
tween politics and the teaching service.
It is there to serve the people it repre-
sents, the public, and is not going to be
dictated to by the Teachers’ Federation
or any other union.
Every teacher has the right of appeal
to the board in cases of alleged injustice
or victimisation. It also safeguards the
teachers’ interests so long as they do not
clash with the public interest. Many
teachers \vho are advocating the removal
of the teaching service from the control
of the P.S. Board might regret the loss
of such an impartial court of appeal.
As far as the rises in pay are con-
cerned, it’s a new one on me that the
employee should receive the same rise as
his boss. Teachers can, in fact, think
themselves lucky that they received even
£65 in these unstable times.
It is to be hoped for the sake of educa-
tion in N.S.W. that the Public Service
Board remains the employing body for
teachers— Wackford (N.S.W.).
Italian Farm Labor
A personal visit by Dr. Dainelli, Italian
Consul for Victoria, to the State’s
western district will assist in solving the
unemployment problem of some hundreds
of his compatriots.
In association with Commonwealth
employment officials. Dr. Dainelli met a
number of large landholders who are
anxious to secure labor to clear thousands
of acres of scrub country in the Balmoral
district, north of Hamilton. The men
will be employed in gangs of up to 50
under a competent overseer with a work-
ing knowledge of English for proper
liaison with the individual landholder,
and will be engaged on a contract basis.
Accommodation has been overcome by
the Consul’s decision to allot the men
feats, bedding and cooking-utensils.
Station-owners will help with their food
requirements, such as meat killed on the
property.
The scheme will achieve a twofold
purpose—bring into production land now
virtually idle and give the migrants fresh
hope in their employment. That in turn
might be the means of keeping them in
their new environment and providing a
pool of much-needed rural labor.— Plain
Australian (Vic.).
The Federal System
The Federal form of government did
have something to do with Lang’s dis-
missal (B. 24/9/’52). Governor Game
sacked Lang because he proposed to
dismiss a civil servant who, against the
Premier’s orders, had obeyed the High
Court’s ruling that a State must honor its
obligations to the Loan Council. Had
the Loan Council —a Federal organ —
not been constituted Lang would have
been acting constitutionally in repudiating
the N. S. Wales National Debt, and the
situation that brought about his dismissal
would not have occurred. In the absence
of those special circumstances, it is
unlikely that the Governor would have
taken action against him.
True the Federal system cannot prevent
State Governments from nationalising
individual public utilities like the Mel-
“ They're only on approval, dear.”
bourne Gas Co. or the Balmain Electric
Light Company; but it does greatly
restrict a State Government hellbent on
socialisation. There are narrow practical
limits to such ambitions.
A State Government, or for that matter
the Commonwealth Government, in time
of peace, cannot prevent the transfer of
capital, plant, moveables or persons to
another State. Hence it would be imprac-
tical for a State Government to attempt
the nationalisation of a whole industry.
Even fanatical Socialists would hesitate
to follow a course that would involve a
widespread flight of capital and industry
to other States.
For the same reason State price-control
is not likely to be carried to extreme
lengths, although a Commonwealth
monopoly of this field might result in that
happening.
That Socialists themselves consider the
Federal Constitution a serious obstacle to
their plans is shown by the efforts of
Commonwealth “Labor” Administrations
to obtain a sweeping increase of powers
for the Commonwealth —a change that
would, in effect, destroy the Federal
character of the Australian Constitution.
Australia’s Constitution needs over-
hauling because it is a written one. A
written Constitution should be revised at
intervals to bring it into proper relation-
ship with social, economic and military
developments. It lacks the easy adapta-
bility to the exigencies of the moment
afforded by an unwritten Constitution like
that of England. That does not mean that
a written Constitution is the inferior of
the two. On the contrary, one in which
is incorporated guarantees of freedom of
person and property to the citizen is a
shield against the establishment of totali-
tarianism by a, temporary Parliamentary
majority. An unwritten Constitution
affords no such guarantee, for the rights
of the citizen are vested in the Parliament
and can be modified or abrogated at will.
—Den (N.S.W.),
Disappearing History
“Bonwick’s Ghost” has my support for
his Historical Commission (B. 8/10/ 52)
because I personally know of a trunk tul
of letters and station records, dating back
to the 1840’s and 1850’s, being dumped
in the incinerator by a featherbrained
female descendant of pioneer stock, who
“couldn’t be bothered doing anything with
them.” Unfortunately a Historical Com-
mission is no great vote-catcher, and con-
sequently “8.G.” may wait a long, long
time for Government action. In the
meantime history continues to disappear.
There are historically-minded citizens
in many of our country districts who
make it a hobby to collate local history
and tradition, but there are just as many
districts in which nothing is being done.
In Britain—admittedly with a lot more
history to work on —every county town
has its Historical Society and, generally,
a museum, usually covering as well the
natural history and geology of the county.
Couldn’t the Education Department,
with its existing organisation, direct that
similar work be done by our schools?
Children are natural collectors and only
need to have their ideas set in the right
direction; they can be counted on to
badger parents into co-operating.
Museums, to be readily accessible to the
public, could best be located in Schools
of Art or similar institutions.
Apart from relics of our pioneering
period, there is a good deal of aboriginal
material which should be preserved,
ranging from stone axe-heads to carvings
on trees. A local bazaar committee put
on an “historical display” as a sideline
and the interest aroused was remarkable
—evidence that the public could be ex-
pected to support a permanent display of
such material. — Hist (N.S.W.).
The Australian Note Issue
Latest figures show that the Australian
note-issue is over £303 million. That is
an increase over two years of £7O mil-
lion. Thus inflation speeds merrily on
its way.
Of the total, £36 million were held
by the banks and £267 million by the
public. By far the greatest proportion
was in “fivers” —near £142 million in
value —although the greatest number of
individual notes was, of course, in singles
—over £67 million.
Notes of the £lOO denomination
accounted for a mere £61,000, but those
of the £lOOO denomination totalled
£1,146,000. It is unlikely that any
of the thousand-pound notes were
held by the public.
The amount of work placed on the
trading banks in sorting out mutilated
and dirty notes (“stinkers” to the trade)
was considerable when the note-issue was
of much smaller dimension. Today it
must be a very big job. Such notes are
returned to the Commonwealth Bank
for destruction, the idea being to keep
the issue as.clean as possible. It is, of
course, an offence deliberately to muti-
late the currency.
It’s anybody’s guess as to what amount
of the £303 million has been lost or
destroyed, but, knowing the casualness of
the average Australian, the figure is likely
to be very large.
• It’s a pretty thought that every man,
woman and child has an average of
about £3O in notes in his or her pockets.
The present high prices for goods demand
that more cash now be carried, but it’s
a fair bet that a lot of the notes in the
hands of the public are socked down
south by income-tax dodgers and other
like gentry. Family teapots, safe deposit-
boxes and similar caches could doubt-
less tell a story (Vic.).
Henry Lawson
J. C. James (B. 24/9/’52) asks many
questions about Henry Lawson’s attitude
to the Australian Labor party, but he
doesn’t answer them adequately.
Lawson, with a creed of mateship and
idealism that transcended sectarian issues
of his day, was not writing simply as a
Labor man. And, even if Lawson was
an active political partisan, it should not
be forgotten that the Labor party has not
quite developed in accordance with the
principles that were evident in its early
days. If he were called upon to identify
himself with a political party today. Law-
son might just as well choose the Liberal
party for all the fundamental difference
there is between the two parties at a
practical level, and so far are they both
removed from his own hopes and ideals.
Lawson has no claims to immortality
as a political theorist; his most strongly
political work will be forgotten first. He
will be remembered for “A Double Buggy
at Lahey’s Creek,” “The Drover’s Wife,”
“Water them Geraniums” and “Bill, the
Ventriloquial Rooster” rather than for
“Faces in the Street,” “My Army, O My
Army,” “The Army of the Rear,” etc.
His genius was more apparent in his
wider conception of life as expressed in
his short stories and, perhaps, his ballads
than in his lop-sided poetry.
Is there any point, then, in identifying
or refusing to identify Lawson with the
Labor movement? The very confusion
of the commentators should re-attract
our attention to the fact that from a
literary standpoint—and with Lawson
that is all that matters —we have a collec-
tion of stories, verse and balladry. That
is enough. If a sociologist wishes to
analyse the so-called “Golden Age” of
the ’nineties and its relation to Australian
politics, let him. But until then surely
nothing is to be gained from propound-
ing and destroying Lawsonian political
hypotheses of little import.— Malcolm
Skilbeck (N.S.W.).
Car Insurance
Motorists are threatened with another
rise in the cost of their insurance,
brought about by the greatly increased
number of accidents. Insurance com-
panies must soon realise that if their rates
go much higher the average careful
motorist will consider it wisest to carry
his own insurance, and companies will be
left with only the motorists who are for
ever having claims against them.
The thousands of careful motorists who
do not have a claim from one year to
another are tired of having to pay for
the other chap’s carelessness and reck-
lessness, If insurance companies find tiiat
they must increase their rates, then it is
up to them to see that the careful motorist
is not penalised any further. It can be
done by jacking-up the rates on the
motorist who has frequent claims and
giving the careful motorist his insurance
at a nominal rate. —W. P. T. (Vic.).
Firearms
With summer and holidays approach-
ing we are probably due for the usual
batch of firearm accidents, most of which
are avoidable. Here are the first two
principles of all firearm-handling:
Never take any firearm into your hands
without immediately withdrawing the bolt
or breaking open the action and looking
to see whether or not it is loaded; even
if you’ve only put it down five minutes
before, do this again. Only in this way
can you be quite certain.
Never let any firearm pass out of your
hands without first completely unloading
it. You may then lean it safely against
a tree (if you don’t mind bits of bark
dropping into the barrel), and if it’s
knocked over while you boil the billy J*
won’t “go off.” .
These are the two first fundamental
rules which, if made an unbreakable
habit, will eliminate more than half ot
the accidents that occur.—G. M. Kent
(N-S.W.).


NOW AVAILABLE
CATHERINE GASKIN
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
HAMMOND INNES
CAMPBELL'S KINGDOM
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
IN AN AGE OF
REVOLUTION
by Cyril Garbett
The Archbishop of York examines
and answers the tremendous prob-
lems that confront mankind today.
30/- (post lido
A MAN CALLED PETER:-
The Story of Peter Marshall,
by his wife Catherine Marshall
The story of a dynamic and warmly-
human modern minister who became
Chaplain of the U.S. Senate.
18/9 (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
WILL CONVEY
TO FRIENDS ABROAD
Your best wishes, and something of our way of life, our environment and our literature.
Books are not expensive, they are easy to send and free of duty and tax in all parts of
the world. To make your choice easier we have just published:—
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
An annotated and classified list of new and standard books written by
Australians and published in Australia.
This attractive booklet will be gladly sent free on request.
CHESHIRES
Booksellers and Publishers
Elizabeth House Basement, Right Opposite McEwans,
338 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
To CHESHIRES —338 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me a free copy of Australian Books.
NAME ... .......
ADDRESS
traditional culture of Europe but newly
alive in Australia:
he bought my grandfather’s house for ever
did Donovan of the Square.
There has never been any attempt in
the Australian Poetry series to set up a
cult of nationalistic writing ; and, in fact,
in this volume, edited by Kenneth Mac-
kenzie, there is something of a drift
towards a vaguely surrealist kind of
verse, pleasant in Charles Osborne’s “Folk
Songs,” rather weak in a few other minor
curiosities. Nor, in this volume, is there
the full national robustness of the issues
of a few years ago when Fitz Gerald and
Francis Webb were writing about
voyagers and explorers. Yet the antho-
logy remains full of Australian thought,
Australian speech and imagery, embodied
in verse almost everywhere of high
quality; conveying as a whole a strong
impression, when you recall some of the
movements of the past —the echoes from
Greece, from Ireland, from the French
symbolists—that Australian poetry today
has found a more natural mode of ex-
pression than at any time since the native
ballad reached its peak at the beginning
of the century.
There is variety in Eve Langley’s and
William Hart-Smith’s New Zealand land-
scapes ; the cities find a voice in Nancy
Keesing’s “Three Men and Sydney” and
Ronald McCuaig’s ingenious madrigal
made out of the noises of newsboys ;
and, continuing the broadly Australian
quality established at the beginning by
John Blight’s “Camp Fever” and the two
lyrics by David Campbell, there are Ray
Mathew’s amusing “Elegy for My Sad-
Faced Uncle,” Hal Porter’s sheep with
their cry of “Here and here, man,
m-a-a-n,” Elizabeth Riddell examining
ancestors in Tasmania, Roland E. Robin-
son with a fine love-poem based on the
rock-lily, Francis Webb with a bushfire
and, finally, two excellent poems by
Judith Wright in which both the tradi-
tional European basis of Australian
writing and the national variation may
be found in exceptional richness ; for
“Dark Gift,” a profoundly beautiful lyric
seeing the flower as death’s final word to
life, an “act of passionate love” from
the darkness of the soil, might have been
written anywhere in the world, but the
“Legend” about the blacksmith’s .boy—
and the old crow cried, You’ll soon b'e dead,
and the rain came down like mattocks;
but he only said
I can climb mountains, I can dodge rocks,
I can shoot an old crow any day—
could only have been written in Australia.
It is a book, therefore, which cannot
fail to give pleasure to anyone who cares
for his country’s literature and at the
same time it will be invaluable to the
young writer or the student who wants
to learn how Australian poetry is
developing.
Reviewed Briefly
We Shared an Island: Guy Morrison
(Phoenix House). Seeking freedom from
landlords, tenants and the thousand-and-
one other irritations of flat-life in Aus-
tralian capital cities, Mr. Morrison took
his wife and two children to join the little
colony of untaxables on the little island
of Moan-Ahra, within the Barrier Reef.
He built his family a grass-house ; but the
loneliness of the island developed tensions
among the few inhabitants ; its freedom
conferred no real “escape”; and the
Morrisons had just come to this con-
clusion when a hurricane blew their
house down, and they returned to civilisa-
tion —Mr, Morrison to become a sub-
editor on the London “News Chronicle.”
The book is a careful description of their
life on the island; how to make a grass-
house ; how to live off the land, etc,; and
of the breezes of dissatisfaction, one with
another, of the various colonists, which
grew into raging winds. There are many
excellent black-and-white illustrations by
Alan Jessett.
* * * ♦
Every Star a Tongue: Margaret
Willy (Heinemann), These are poems
whose meaning is always clearly expressed
with impeccable craftsmanship. The
phenomena which inspire the author are
extremely varied, but her ideas derived
from them are usually inevitable and lack-
ing in surprise. Nevertheless, in its
sincerity and lack of both pretentiousness
and sentimentality this is a pleasant book
which should prove enjoyable to readers
who prefer verse-reading to be a relaxa-
tion rather than an adventure.
♦ * ♦ ♦
A Stranger in the Midlands: Anne
Treneer (Cape), The Cornish author of
Schoolhouse in the Wind here tells the
story of her sixteen years as a mistress in
St. Edward’s school for girls, Birm-
ingham, from 1931 to 1947 ; an account
not only of the school, its removal to
another site, and its tribulations during
the war years, but also of her shifts of
residence, from rooms to flats, from flats
to country cottages ; her commuting to
school by motor-cycle ; her holidays; a
visit to Prague. The scenery takes in
Worcestershire, Warwickshire, Shropshire
and Herefordshire; Malvern Hills, the
Cotswolds. She has managed to make
ordinary, everyday life extraordinarily
interesting; perhaps that is a greater
accomplishment than to hop it up with a
murder or a scandal.
♦ * ♦ ♦
The Character of Peoples: Andre
Siegfried (Cape). This is a scholarly game
of tag ; “Latin realism, French ingenuity,
English tenacity, German discipline,
Russian mysticism and American
dynamism.” M. Siegfried’s purpose is to
conclude that “the West” should develop
apart from America and Russia: “The
classic tradition has not passed fully to
the New World, where it is confined to
universities and books —and is not a living
principle.,.. At the other extreme of the
Western world, the Soviet Union displays
the same factors of mass which cause us
such misgivings. Russia’s solutions
resemble America’s more than ours do,
because in Russia as in America the mass
is in the ascendant.” Not a nice thing to
tell the Americans—or the Russians.
* * * ♦
Two recent additions to the Notable
British Trials series are The Veronica
Trial and Trial of the Seddons. Veronica
was a ship which sailed from an island
in the Gulf of Mexico in 1902, bound
for Monte Video, upon which there
broke out a mutiny in which eight of
the 13 persons aboard were killed—in
extraordinary scenes of massacre which
recall Stevenson’s The Wrecker. Mr.
Seddon was a common (or garden)
poisoner.
* * * *
Set Points: Dinny Pails (Currawong).
Sub-titled “My Tennis Story,” it tells
Pails’s story from the days when, as a
boy in short pants, he used to hit an
old and “rapidly balding” tennis-ball
against a brick wall to his Davis Cup
games and subsequent career as a pro-
fessional player. He hits at the haphazard
methods in Australia of coaching promis-
ing juniors, praises Australian sporting-
firms and makers of sporting-goods for
their assistance to amateur tennis, writes
interestingly on women in tennis, details
the strict rules of procedure forced on
players at Wimbledon. He also criticises
some aspects of the preparation here of
Davis Cup players. In conclusion, he has
a long chapter of advice and instruction
on the game, based on his own teaching
methods, The book is nicely printed in
crown quarto size, and is easy reading
for the most part, though there is not
much life in it. A grammatical bone-
of-contention is the American-style spell-
ing of “racket”: not an improvement on
“racquet,” which spelling, besides being
traditional, helps so much to distinguish
tennis from the other games so popular
in Australia at the moment.
* * * *
From Sanskrit to Brazil: Eric Part-
ridge (Hamish Hamilton). It must be an
exceptional week in which Mr. Partridge
does not write a new book about lan-
guage. His high spirits and irascible vigor
show no signs of flagging in this latest
small tome, which is a set of linguistic
essays, long and short, on such subjects
as beer, quinine, Dr. Johnson, Eric Part-
ridge, quintuplets, and the vocabulary of
Christopher Fry.
* * * *
The Choice of Words: V. H, Collins
(Longmans). A book of synonyms, with
explanations; essentially the idea is to
indicate, assuming there are three words
which appear to mean the same thing,
which you should use; for example,
“‘reside,’ as a substitute for ‘live,’ with
reference to the place where a person
has his permanent home, is what Sir Alan
Herbert might call a snob-word; ‘dwell’
is journalese for ‘live.’ ” A useful little
book for anybody wishing to improve his
use of English.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 196
Across.
I — A collection of money, so be it,
thanks the address for duelling
folk who take the Bible literally.
(15)
7 A.B.C. peak has a little laughter
on a wager. (8)
8 — Customs of you wise men. (6)
ll Glasses may relieve this east
affirmative on the pulf-putf. (3-6)
13— My last marsupial is spacious.
(5) ‘
14 — Stud beast so enhances the per-
ception of many tongues. (5, 4)
16 —Duck a prelate in this rum. (3)
18 —Urge on a cackleberry. (3)
20 —Not bowled yet, but Edward is
inculcated. (9)
24 — Place for a game Sydney soprano.
(5)
25 — Cry about her, Menzies, and get
the pip. (6, 3)
28 — Make a law banning mots,
epigrams, wisecracks, etc.? (6)
29 — John in Italy with an American
soldier and nothing but a wagon
turning in. (8)
30 —Lacking prestige, nevertheless, and
describing how the seat of the
pants have worn thin. (15)
Down.
1 — Kind of Spanish dance introduces
an old love to a sergeant or less.
(8)
2 Child implement of crustacean
aggression. (6)
3 Separated a job for an actor. (5)
4 Purge a compass-point with
mother. (5)
5 Circular on cobbling equipment
end the fight. (4, 5)
6 Impudent donkey in a steam-
yacht. (5)
9 —Bird to grumble. (6)
10—Girl and boy in temper. (6)
12 —Spanish town roaring without
Wagner’s operas. (3)
14— Conductor turns in a couple of
times after the opera. (9)
15— It controls light punitive vegeta-
tion. (6)
17 —Unfrock a thoroughfare named
after a low joint. (6)
19 —Digging for food with a crooner.
(8)
21— A listener. (3)
22 — Color set adrift a little bounder
in the merchant navy. (6)
23 Report separates you and I in a
Congo tributary. (6)
26 — Proclamation. (5)
27 — Bird to prey voraciously. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 195


i X ,> ? y.V %
MARS 10|/1T - INCH
ALL GEARED HEAD LATHE
Modem in design. Wide operational capacity. A
heavy-duty lathe suited to any shop. Long angle
vee-ways. Wide speed range. Large hollow spindle.
Remote control. EARLY DELIVERY.
fgd
■
1
L
fg
MARS NO. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
An up-to-the-minute Milling Machine with rapid
power traverse all movements. Wide range of speeds
and feeds. Built-in electrics. Guaranteed Schlesinger
standards. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
MARS 3-H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
A quality diesel with outstanding features. Slow
running. Bosch injection. Water cooled. Replaceable
liners. Variable speed. Economic fuel consumption.
Almost vibration-free. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
df
gdf
gd
gd
MARS 16£-INCH SHAPER
This is an ideal all-purpose shaping machine with a
wide operational range. Designed to cut key ways in
long shafts. Guaranteed accuracy. IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY. '
MARS UNIVERSAL DIVIDING HEADS
A necessity in every workshop. This machine is
precision built and of sturdy design. Seven-inch
Universal differential indexing. IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
gd
M
*
M
smwmm
f
dgf
MARS 8-H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
Like the 3-h.p. and 5-h.p,, this is also a diesel of
outstanding quality. Simple to operate. Dynamically
balanced. Easy to start and economical in fuel
consumption. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
MARS TRIPLE DRUM SANDER
High speed production machine. Dial load indicators
fitted to each drum. No. 1 drum provided with
selective oscillation. Continuous feed belt ideal for
sanding small parts. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
gd
t * r
mm
Pi
■
fgd
MARS RADIAL DRILL
Designed to suit engineering workshop conditions
requiring capacity and accuracy. Ail gear drive.
Power and hand feed. Quick change and ease of
operation. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
mm
9
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS; W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H.
Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street. Adelaide. VIC.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little
Bcurfce Street, Melbourne. N.S.W.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 109 Oxford Street, Sydney.
QLD.: Mara Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd. TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 145 Collins Street, Hobart.
INDIA (Bombay Province); R. S. Mehta & Co., Ali Chambers, Port, Bombay. PHILIPPINES:
The Earnshaw’s Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
THE “MARS” GEAR DIVISION provides prompt service. Gears completely manufac-
tured or your own blanks generated by Sunderland, Fellows, Hobbing or Gleason
Bevel processes.
MEEHANITE (Regd. Trade Mark) CASTINGS. All castings are produced in the Mars
Foundry under supervision of highly trained metallurgical and laboratory staffs.
W.E3 MANUFACTURE ALL GRADES OF MEEHANITE IRONS.
fg
df
gdfgd
m.coMLTO.
■
■
J. .fr O'S. Adrert.
