

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS, BUY SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3800
Wednesday, December 10, 1952
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BUSY CLERKS NOW WALK THE BARONIAL HALLS OF STORMONT CASTLE
A short distance beyond the eastern boundary of Belfast in County Down
is the Stormont estate, consisting of some three hundred acres. These
extensive grounds are well known for their possession of Ulster s Parliament,
but nearby, and also within the estate, are other important buildings, one ot
which is Stormont Castle, shown in the accompanying illustration Until
recently the Castle was the official residence of the Prime Minister of Nortnern
Ireland, but it now houses Government offices, and the Prime Minister lives
in the Lodge previously occupied by the Speaker.
Stormont Castle was built by the Clelland family about 1830, and enlarged
twenty years later.. Like many other castles in Ulster, Stormont was built
in the Scottish baronial style. The building was transferred to the Northern
Ireland Governiftent in 1921. ,
Ulster’s Parliamentary system is modelled on the lines of the Imperial
T> riinrnpni at Westminster, to which it sends thirteen members, and consists
nf the Sovereign a Senate of twenty-six members and the House of Commons
vh nftv twn B members legislating for a population of approximately one-
Queen Elizabeth 11, is represented
Z q ZZ™r who"*official residence is Hillsborough Castle, twelve miles
from Belfast in County Down.


Learn
Story
izMmm
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S; Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age
The Red Page
THREE AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
James Tyrrell’s Memoirs
Everybody in the Australian book-
world knows James Tyrrell, of the second-
hand bookshop near Wynyard, Sydney,
and his Old Books, Old Friends, Old
Sydney (Angus and Robertson) is an
autobiography that has been eagerly
awaited.
Of course, if everybody knew Tyrrell, so
did Tyrrell know everybody: some of the
people in his book are Sir Henry Parkes,
David Scott Mitchell, Henry Lawson,
George Robertson, J, F. Archibald,
Norman Lindsay, Chris Brennan, A. B.
Paterson, Cardinal Moran, Will Dyson
and David Low, There is also the
gallery of street-characters who figured
in a recent Bulletin extract from the
book: the Flying Pieman, Old Mother
Fivebob, Abby Dabby, Paddy the Ram,
and Old Dad, who once threw a stone
at a boy and hit Sir Henry Parkes.
From out of the past as Tyrrell recap-
tures the Sydney he has known come
places as well as people—-Paddy’s Market
at the height of its glory, where Tyrrell
spent many a Saturday evening “amidst
the dazzle and hurly-burly and tumult
and shouting” (“Hokey-pokey penny a
lump,” and “Trotters! Here y’are,
trotters, fourpence a dozen! Now’s y’r
time, trotters!”); the old cable-trams that
clattered up and down King- and George-
street; the Girls’ High School opposite
where Angus and Robertson’s now stands,
walled from the public gaze like a jail;
the horse-buses tearing past to the street-
urchins’ cry of “Whip behind!”; the
horse-drawn fire-engines turning into
Market-street from Castlereagh-street just
about literally on one wheel . . .
James Tyrrell was born in Sydney in
1875 at the then fashionable suburb of
Darlington, but moved with his parents at
the age of five to Reynolds-street,
Balmain, near Bald Rock, where his
father, a native of the Isle of Wight, a
Micawber-like character who had served
in the Crimean war and who was on the
Lambing Flat diggings, kept a refresh-
ment-shop, which included a wine-bar
patronised by the piratical-looking crews
of the windjammers that anchored in
Johnstone’s Bay.
Skippers of the ships at Balmain some-
times allowed young Jim Tyrrell and his
mates the freedom of the cookhouse, and
there were rafts of giant logs of cedar
and pine for small boys to race over and
dive or fall off. There were sorghum
patches to be raided, geebungs and five-
corners to be pjcked in the Drummoync
bush, and orchards all round. There
were also the abbatoirs at Glebe Island
to be visited and the bloodthirsty delight
(for boys) of witnessing the killing of the
bullocks, pigs and sheep. There were the
noisy concerts on Saturday nights by the
Temperance Society, and the great boat-
races on the Parramatta River.
In 1888 Jim got a job as an errand-
boy with Angus and Robertson’s at their
then Market-street shop by detaching
himself from the crowd of boys waiting
outside the front door to be interviewed
for the position, climbing over a back
gate and presenting himself to the
astonished red-bearded David McKenzie
Angus, who had founded the business in
1884, taking George Robertson in as a
partner two years later. His first task
was to “keep an eye on the front,” watch-
ing that no ostensible browser at the
boxes of cheap-priced books just outside
the door made off with any pf the stock.
He graduated to fetching sawdust from
the sawmills at the foot of Market-street
for sweeping the floors, then to trundling
a billycart around the town, delivering
books to customers, and, finally, to selling
books.
Tyrrell remained with Angus and
Robertson for 17 years, and at the time
of his departure in 1905, when he left to
open a bookshop of his own, he was the
manager of the shop. Some of the staff
who were present at his farewell 47 years
ago are still with A. and R.; among them
Don Walker, Sid MeGure and Jim
Christie, a trio well-known to Sydney’s
booklovers. Among others who were
present, Guy Moore has a bookshop in
Pitt-street, Sydney, George Barker one
in Brisbane, and, until recently, Albert
Spencer had the delightfully-named Hill
of Content bookshop in Melbourne.
Another 1905 AngUs-and-Robertson
identity, Arthur Champion, is today with
Mr. Tyrrell at his bookshop.
Tyrrell began bookselling on his own
in Sydney with a capital of £2OO and
some generous assistance from George
Robertson. Five years later he moved
to Adelaide and took premises in Gawler-
place, which was soon to become a second
home for such inveterate book-collectors
S. T. Thomas, J. T. Hacked, Sir Henry
Simpson Newland and Sir James Gosse,
and the lively staff of the short-lived
“Gadfly,” edited by C, J. Dennis. In its
short but gay career the “Gadfly”
attracted a brilliant team of contributors,
including Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”),
E. J. Brady and Will Dyson and his wife
Ruby, the gifted, lovely sister of Norman,
Lionel and Percy Lindsay.
Back in Sydney Tyrrell was for a time
associated with The Bulletin's J. F.
Archibald in a bookselling and publishing
venture. They brought out Henry
Lawson’s My Army, O, My Army, David
Low’s Caricatures (some of which are
reproduced in the Tyrrell book), James
Steele’s Early Days of Windsor, R. D.
Barton’s Reminiscences of an Australian
Pioneer and Sydney Ure Smith’s Relics of
Old Colonial Days.
Before settling down at his present
address 20 years ago, Tyrrell, in partner-
ship with others, took over the old curio
establishment of Tost and Rohu in
Martin-place, then one of the oddest
shops in Sydney “Armor, spears,
boomerangs, teapots, native dresses,
ancient muskets, tiger-skins, birds’
feathers, stuffed animals —there was
simply nothing in the curio line that I
did not handle there.” Kenneth Slessor
wrote a poem about the shop. But in
the end the place was too queer for
Tyrrell, and he left it to begin again on his
own at his present address.
In the course of following his own
career Tyrrell also gives much of the
early history of Angus and Robertson,
describing in detail the two original
partners. He says of George Robertson,
much the more forceful character of the
two, “I am sure it is no overstatement to
say that George Robertson is not only
quite firmly established as a big figure in
Australian literary development, but is
nationally an actual living personality.
That, I suppose, is saying a good deal,
but surely not a word too much. The
black-bearded young Scots giant, as he
seemed in my eyes in the Market-street
days, strong-willed, masterful, wide-
visioned and inherently generous, was to
develop into a really great character, and
was, oddly enough, to become in the
process as Australian in manner and out-
look as the trend in Australian literature
he specially featured.”
D. M. Angus was “no such favorite of
fate, nor was he in his lifetime.” Born in
1855, the red-bearded Angus was from his
early twenties a consumptive like his
brother-Scot R. L. Stevenson. Always
he yearned for his homeland, and at the
beginning of this century went back there.
He died at Bournemouth when only 46.
George Robertson survived him by 32
years. .
Today Angus is something of a myth
even at Angus and Robertson s. His
brother Donald, known to all as Dan,
“never sacked a boy in his life, had
mirrors rigged ingeniously about the shop
so that he could watch out for book-
thieves, and had almost a fixation complex
about string—not an inch of string was
wasted while Dan was about the place.
When Tyrrell joined A. and R. there
were only the two partners and another
boy, Fred Wymark, his senior by three
years. Fred became one of the most
noted experts in Australiana, He could
drive a hard bargain and had a way of
his own in handling difficult customers.
Judge Rogers, buying books from
him, offered him about 20 per cent, less
than the marked price. “Certainly, your
Honor,” said Fred,' “and when I come
up before you in court you'll of course
knock 20 per cent, off my sentence.” His
Honor paid up.
That great man of Australiana David
Scott Mitchell looms large throughout
the book. Number 17 Dariinghurst-
road was once described as “Not
a home, but a fortress of books.”
There Mitchell lived in almost com-
plete seclusion with his enormous
collection. So absorbed was he with his
books that once, when the balcony of
No. 17 collapsed, and old Sarah, his
housekeeper, reported it to her master,
Mitchell merely said “Call a carter and
get him to take.it away,” and went on
with his reading.
Recluse as Mitchell was he could be
completely ruthless in his transactions
with booksellers. It is reported that he
once walked into Dymock’s bookshop to
inspect the Dr. George Bennett library
that was up for sale. Upon learning that
Alfred Lee, a formidable rival of
Mitchell’s, had put aside £3OO-worth of
the books, Mitchell, without examining
the Lee purchase, ordered Bob Gibson,
manager of Dymock’s second-hand
department, to put them in his cab, adding
“Or I’ll never come into the shop again.”
And put into the cab they were, while
Mitchell went on making his own selec-
tion from the Bennett library.
The frontispiece to this rich and
memorable autobiography is from a paint-
ing by James Muir Auld, and there are
about 300 illustrations—photographs of
people and places, caricatures and
cartoons and facsimiles of manuscripts
and letters.
W. E. FITZ HENRY.
SHELLING PEAS
I reach into a paper bag
Bulging like my seeing mind
And take therefrom a full green pod:
Snicker, snacker, shelling peas—
Poems in an iron pot:
And down upon my knobbly knees,
Always trying, never able
To find the one beneath the table.
N-S.Wi
ERIC C. ROLLS.
COMET
I saw, once, with my naked eye
a comet lying just above the horizon
small and bright, setting in the southern
sky.
In youth, the lore of picture-books
foretold,
falsely, as now I know, some huge
globe flashing
at awful speed, with tail of burning
gold,
actoss the heavens, visible night and
day.
Imagination had it, too,
for star it was, hissed and rumbled on
its way.
But this, my first, is not as frightening
as a comet might have been; it sets and
rises
like the sun, and moon and stars. Some
heightening
of mystery occurs, it is so still,
and innocent, harmless, small.
It cannot do the universe some ill.
Here in my mind my comet hangs, a
ball
of light, larger than any star, its tail
a smudge
of luminescence, sometimes not visible
at all.
Last night it reappeared in altered
guise,
a cell, a sperm, with threadlike tail
lunging through the liquid of the skies
to hit tlie childless sun and burrow in
causing that monstrous egg to split and
spawn
worlds, just like all families begin.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
An Abo . Odyssey
Ronald M. Berndt’s Djanggawul
(Cheshire) is one of those serious anthro-
pological studies that, with a brief
shudder of respect, one normally passes-
on for the attention of other serious-
minded anthropologists.
No doubt in its field it is an important
work. It is an account of the Djanggawul
religious cult of north-eastern and north-
central Arnhem Land which Mr. Berndt,
well-known as the author of similar
studies and a lecturer in anthropology
at Sydney University, lately investigated
at first-hand. It seems to make some
lethal corrections, in the academic way,
to W. L. Warner’s A Black Civilisation
(New York, 1937); and, though the style
is a little severe, the ordinary reader who
is not afraid of the aborigines’ exceedingly
clinical outlook on sex might well attempt
it with profit.
But this book has also a literary interest
and significance unique amongst Aus-
tralian anthropological studies.
Along with his account and interpreta-
tion of the Djanggawul myth, which is
at once a historical drama in which the'
aborigines recall their coming to Aus-
tralia from an island named Bralgu and
a fertility-rite to ensure the increase of
food, animals and children, Mr. Berndt
prints the song-cycle which these Arnhera-
landers still sing as they dance and act
the long series of religious ceremonies:
and taken as a whole these songs amount
to what we must call an aboriginal
Odyssey; or, if the comparison is too
far-fetched, at least an aboriginal equiva-
lent of the Nordic sagas—which indeed,
though the long line into which Mr.
Berndt has rendered the aboriginal songs
is much more pleasant to read than the
stabbing gutturals of Norway, the
sequence does very much resemble.
The great virtue of Mr. Berndt’s trans-
lation is that he has not attempted to
render the songs into English verse—
nearly always a disastrous venture.
Breaking the lines, he says, where the
aborigines themselves make a pause in
the rhythm, he has given a literal prose
rendering which we may assume is as
close to the aboriginal as possible. The
prose, with its own emotional momentum,
becomes rhythmical, and the general effect
is rather like reading Walt Whitman or,
with the aboriginal repetitions having
much the same effect as Hebrew paral-
lelism, the Bible.
First the aborigines describe their sea-
voyage from Bralgu in verse that, however
simple, obviously has vigor of rhythm, a
nice use of sound-effects and a clear
pictorial quality:
We paddle along through the roaring tide,
paddle a long way.
I am paddling along fast, through the rough
sea ...
Beside me is foam from our paddling, ana
large waves follow us.
With Bralbral, we move our wrists as we
paddle, making a noise as we go
through the sea . . .
We, Djanggawul, are paddling along, luting
our paddles, slowly going along . . •
All the way we have paddled. I rest my
paddles now, as we glide.
On the sea’s surface the light from tne
Morning Star shines as we move,
Shining on the calmness of the sea.
Looking back I see its shine, an arc_ot
light from the Morning Star, the
shine falls on our paddles, lighting oui
way. , „
We look back to the Morning Star and see
its shine, looking back as we paddle.
Star moving along, shining! We saw u
disk quite close, .
Skimming the sea’s surface, and mounting
again above Bralgu. f
Close to us it rises above the expanse o
sea; we look back, seeing its shine.
Morning Star, sent by the dancing apm
People, those people of the rain, calling
out as they dance there with ou-
stretched arms. .
They send it for us, that we may travel
along its shining path from Bralgu.
Then, when the .voyagers are ashore,
and Djanggawul, his two Fertiuy
Mothers and other oddly-behaved dem-
gods from the canoe are wandering ap
Arnhem Land sanctifying and fructify ' J.
it with their “dreamings,” there are m
charming observations of nature, usu
with an underlying symbolic mea . ®
which Mr. Berndt explains in a runnus
commentary.
What is that crying? It is a nestling crying
softly, as it saw the sun. ,
It is perched on the sacred djuda tree,
ing the rangga tree with its cla •
From the tree it looked at , th Lrnaimbi'
sun, in the west beyond Milmgi •
Saw the warm rays of the sun, the
sun! „ , ... nest-
Drying itself, ruffling its feathers,
lings. ’Myself (says the birdU
drying my red breast feath ,
babies!’ t . , lt auM
Parrakeets, perched in a row on th<
Crying softly, cocking their heads f roltl
side to side ... j its
They saw the rays of the sun, and
heat ... , the
Crying softly, they saw the mou
SawThe^n! 1 "!' * ***•
Cryingf "they fly deep down io
covered up like younger sid D
one may see. , . ■ rp( \ breast
‘Myself (says the bird). 1 have_
feathers, my nestlings • • •
It is done: they are asleep.
A flaw in the translation is t
sional use of modern placenarne
(Continued on page 42)


JU
i *WWWM»Si
. «... .
Nrm«*ff*w*i
" ft
J2>"
■ •.»
■
■
v . av
•; Q .;•*• ,
Handsome Brogues
by Julius
''W*
m
<4; -4 $ •& s&
illi
•:x •;■•:■•
is
S'-W
1
V v '
:, :
1i
#....
* v
■
V
yii
c
I 4
V
:Vi ■
ii s
11
(h -
m
" V''
LJ# , '^IH
EH
stc
. SS»*i
f
/I
9 : ft;
•> V
w
m
fe m)
1:
n
\ :
,w;; : *
%
.;% ■**
1
«
■
'/ ftl
i. ' § ‘t V^9s".
.. * X » * ...«►. * ... « .*>•*«•;
;
H
t • •»•’ 3
... _ ■
1
Mi
M
**>
v
>M
lIK
:. ,
t '>:
O
» * »i
V'.?^
89/-
* * * £4
*l-'
4 4
llli
■
I*
I*
•M.
;;S: 'v
M
J 1
; i",ftft:
|K
«P
■I
79l
■
I'-
ll: ’
■
EH
Available in 60 Measured Fittingsl
“Julius Marlow” new Bold Brogue. Smart
wall toes, extra stout soles, wide welts and sewn
h £e l seats. Available in Rich Tan or Black Box
Calf, 89/-. Also in imported Scotch Zebu.
Multiple sizes 5 to 12, £5/10/-.
Below Left. “Julius Marlow” Oxford. Medium,
round, or square toes. With flexible leather soles
and non-jarring heel cushions. Available in Tan
or Black Box Calf. These shoes come in multiple
sizes 5 to 12. 79/-,
Below Centre. Here’s a smart shoe! The “Julius
Marlow” Semi-Brogue with flexible soles. Avail-
able in Rich Tan or Black Box Calf. A shoe built
to last. Available in multiple sizes sto 12. This
shoe is. priced at 79/,-.
Wwv Right “Julius Marlow” Moccasin Derby. Wall toes, flexible soles, non-
Available in Rich Tan or Black Calf. Multiple sizes 5 to
12 - With leather soles'and heels,'priced at 79/-, or Tan Calf with non-slip rubber
s °ks and heels, priced at 79/-.
I
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns
DEPARTMENT, GROUND
FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT)


Exploding a Time-honored Myth
CLAPTRAP
ABOUT COUSINS
By GAVIN CASEY
THE Americans and the British gel
along as, a rule at least as well as
any other pair of peoples, but there
is a good deal of misunderstanding
and suspicion between them, or between
geographical and social sections of them,
A lot of this is the fault of well-
meaning souls who invented the time-
honored phrase, “our American cousins,”
and some of whom still think that the
Boston Tea Party was just an unfortunate
mistake, and that the Yanks really wish
they still belonged to the British Empire,
Their equivalents in the United States
are barely optimistic enough to imagine
that the United Kingdom will ever become
part of their union, but large numbers of
ill-informed and misled citizens are sure
that Canada will soon be the fiftieth or
fifty-first State, and are very disinclined
to believe anyone who tells them that
Australia is unlikely to be the next.
The fact is that the Americans are, at
least potentially, our very good long-term
friends. They have been a valuable ally
in one world war, and an indispensable
ally in the second. Without being silly
enough to ignore their own interests
altogether, they have been generous in
post-war aid to British countries which
needed it. Individually as well as
nationally they are a very generous and
likeable people, with whom it is a pleasure
to associate in their land, ours, or some
other place.
But “cousins”? No!
Whatever the real Yank is like, most
Britishers don’t truly want the loudly-
dressed, cigar-chewing, horn-rimmed,
cartoonists’ American as one of the
family, and in his more thoughtful moods
it might occur to him that, while the
amiable Yank is prepared to put up with
the Chicago “Tribune’s” buck-toothed,
monocled, vacuous Englishman as a
neighbor, or even as a partner, he doesn’t
exactly class him with Aunt Nellie’s brood
out in Oregon, or even the Boston
relatives.
This was first impressed on me when
I was in the U.S. in uniform, and, while
encountering no actual coldness, found
myself in an atmosphere of reserve I had
not found among the Yanks in Australia.
Then it occurred to me that I’d better
mount the “Australias” I had not been
worrying to wear on my shoulders, and
after I advertised that I was not “British”
in the American sense of the term I was
hardly allowed to buy myself a drink.
Unfortunately, the really high and
warm regard in the U.S. for Australians
is partly based on something like the
“American cousins” myth. Because we
speak a language that was once the same,
and because the same fiction of long, lean
toughness attaches to both Aussies and
Texans, they think we are much more
like them than we are.
The fact that I was plentifully beer-
muscled and only of average height did
not seem to shock them too much, and
the unexpected things I found out about
them didn’t decrease my regard for them,
but they made me wish we could see
each other more clearly instead of through
clouds of friendly but confusing prejudice.
Among the things I found out was that
the eastern Americans, if not the
uninhibited Californians, have built up an
astonishingly strict formal code of dress
for men. Out of uniform, and feeling
pretty smart in a tastefully blue-striped
shirt, I was tactfully told by a more
experienced friend that men in my posi-
tion could wear any color linen they liked
in New York, as long as it was white!
Ties of plain color were favored unless
one could afford richly subdued patterns
of elegant individuality. Most Americans
above the lowest income-group would be
about as likely to get married in their
underclothes as without clawhammer
coats and cravats for themselves and their
retinues. Any suggestion of the vertical
crease that commonly graces the sleeve
of an Australian suitcoat when it has just
been pressed implied that one probably
patronised a cut-rate dry-cleaner who did
not know his business.
In the matter of accent, the better-
educated Yanks have no trouble at all
with a swift flow of exuberant Australian,
but for some of the others such talk was
almost meaningless. For a start it was
just a shade irritating to find that these
latter seeming-clots were at home listen-
ing to thick, broken English that I
couldn’t follow. This, of course, was
because ( a ) Americans, particularly in the
humbler spheres, are used to broken
English among their teeming millions,
and (Z>) the recent arrival from Europe
speaks his new, unfamiliar language
slowly and expressionlessly, while an
Australian races along at terrific speed in
a rhythm as well as an accent strange to
the listener’s ears,
I clung to my original speech for two-
and-a-half years, not because I dislike
good American voices, but because I was
an Australian publicist, and felt that our
accent, good or bad, was part of our
national character and personality. I
also loathed the idea of sounding like a
“Bondi Beach Yank” when I got home ;
but my hosts must have, worn me down a
little, because the dumber ones could
understand me better after a while.
In the atmosphere of delightful but
often ill-founded regard, I was really
pleased to find that all the ex-G.l.s who
had been here and really knew something
about us reckoned “Down Under” was a
mighty good place. Then I began to
recall how at least some of them were
cheated, exploited, taken in by women
and even bashed and robbed. I started
asking the Pacific veterans about the less
sunny side of King’s Cross and such
places, and one summed-up more briefly
what they nearly all said when he told
me “You forget those things, buddy. You
remember the good times, and boy, I had
some mighty fun down there in
Awstrellia! ”
That sort of attitude, together with
true generosity not often motivated by
the wish to show off, and with a general
level of simple decency seldom displayed
by Hollywood, made one love the Yanks.
Something I loved less was an upper-
income-group view of politics almost in-
comprehensible to an Australian. For
one thing, it seemed that to most of the
formally white-shirted gentry “Govern-
ment” had an amazing Jekyll and Hyde
character —everything it did domestically
was vile, autocratic, bureaucratic, oppres-
sive, vicious and Socialistic, but in inter-
national affairs the Monster somehow
changed in a flash into Uncle Sam.
Uncle, the fine, lean, benevolent old
gentleman with the somewhat flamboyant
suiting, could do no wrong, except maybe
in giving too much taxpayers’ money to
the sneaking, back-stabbing foreigners
who lived off his bounty and sneered up
their sleeves. As a foreigner whose
country was, at the time, growing all its
own tucker, I never really cared for this
idea.
There was also among the ultra-con-
servatives a personal hatred of President
Roosevelt and all his works of a kind
that I don’t think any Australian not in
danger of being certified ever felt against
Jack Curtin or Ben Chifley. Dignified
and otherwise kindly old gentlemen were
likely to curse themselves into wordless,
spluttering fury at the thought of him,
and though they might not have been
willing to shoot him dead, they gave me
a strong impression that if anybody more
skilled with firearms would do the job
they would pay well.
Much more recently, that notion of
mine was confirmed when a couple of
the kind visited Australia shortly after
the attempt by Puerto Ricans to assassin-
ate President Truman. Quite earnestly,
and without a trace of humor or satire,
they deplored the bad aim of these would-
be murderers and the good aim of
Truman’s F. 8.1. guards. I don’t think
even the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” would
go so far in its blood-pressure feud with
Treasurer Sir Arthur Fadden.
There are naturally many Americans I
would be quite happy to have as cousins,
and I even have one for a wife —a much
more important member of the family.
But not, thank you, the ones who favor
such methods in politics, or the Ku Klux
Klan boys, or various other ruffian groups
that are not as important in the United
STORIES
“The Pringle Menace”
by M. G. Vincent
A breezy old country-newspaper
editor, old Pringle is an Australian
type who has never appeared in print
—at any rate, never so forcefully as
in this story.
In next week’s Bulletin story batch■
States scene as they may sometimes look
from a distance, but manage to survive
and create violence. And not, I’m afraid,
even the lads from some areas who pour
sweet syrup on fried sausages at break-
fast-time, though my better self tells me
that the habit harms nobody, and that
as husbands and fathers, citizens, soldiers
and democrats they are just as good as
any of my cousins who were born into
it, and can’t be rejected. Trifles only
make idiots dislike each other, but they
need looking at squarely and recognising
clearly as much as do major differences.
The Yanks are not Britishers who
went off the rails about a century and a
half ago, and the English are not a race
of old-fashioned, industrially backward
Americans. They are not cousins, bu
they can and should be firm, stauncn
friends. If they are, the contribution
of the United States to the comradeship
will be great and valuable.
But even 150 years ago what was t
be the U.S. was a seething, aspiring
country where the restless men of a dozen
European races were seeing new visions
and developing new national shape an
genius. The “American cousin’’ theory
was threadbare even then, and if Geo g
111 hadn’t been greedy about tea-taxes
something else would have soon set
young, vast, rich nation off on a c° u
pretty like the one it has followed.
Beach Browsings
, , ODNEY, stop throwin’
1 He sand around like that!
\ It’s goin’ over everything.”
“Won’t!’’
“Don’t answer me like that, you
little brat, or I’ll tan your backside
for you. Now you stop, or I’ll tell
your father when he comes out of
the surf.”
“Why can’t I chuck it? That other
kid over there is.”
“It don’t matter what he does, it’s
what I tell you not to do. Now if
you —there! Take that! I told you
not to throw it again!”
“Yow ! Ooh !”
“Yes, and you’ll get some more if
you do it again. It might teach you
in future not t 0...”
“Yes, it was a shame about Elaine,
and she had her trousseau almost
finished, too. But it was better for
her to find out about him before she
married him than after. I never did
like him myself. He had those close-
set eyes, and that Adam’s-apple of
his used to annoy me every time he
swallowed. If you ask me, I think
she’s lucky getting out of it so
lightly...”
“Didn’t see y’ at the pitchers last
night, Johnno. Did y’r sheila stand
y’ up?”
“Are you bein’ funny? I went to
the wrestlin’ with some o’ the mob.
What was the pitchers like?”
“Beaut. A Western and an Abbott
an’ Costello...”
“Good heavens, Nell, just get an
eyeful of this coming along! You
wouldn’t think she’d have the hide to
get into a strapless two-piecer the
size she is. And a floral one at that.
I don’t know —here am I, won’t
wear this and that because I think
it might make me too conspicuous,
and she can strut around in a thing
like that! She can easily give me a
stone and a half, I’ll bet...”
“Hey, Merv, s-s-s! Come on and
we’ll sling Joan in.”
“lan, leave go my leg! Ooh,
Valda, make Merv and lan stop —
they’re going to pull me into the
water, and I haven’t got a cap on.
I’ll get my perm, full of sand.”
“Righto, Merv, one... two...
three...”
“No, please, lan. If you do I’ll
never speak to you again— ooh!...”
“Rodney, how many more times
must I tell you to stop throwing
sand! And leave Merle’s bucket
alone. You know she doesn’t like
you touchin’ it, and you’ve got your
own to play with. Here! Come back
at once and stay around where I
can see you. Migord, Em, that kid’ll
drive me mad one o’ these days...”
“Der beaghe insbegdor ’e say vy
for you mugs garnt geep der vlags
betveen. But, Karl, id iz der zame
vater oudzide der vlags as between
’em, nein?”
“Ja, Hermann. Perhabs id iz dat
aut’ority ’e lige to show. Choost
lige back in der Vaderland...”
“There’s the line going out —
bunch o’ sheilas in that channel.
You’d think they’d..,.”
“Whacko the dumper! Did you
see that bloke disappear under it?
I’ll bet he damn’ near cracks his
neck if he hits the bottom. By
cripes he looked funny as he went
under—eh, lady? Yair, best thing is
to rub it with wet sand, hard, and
then go up to the clubhouse and
they’ll dab it with the blue-bag.
That’ll take the sting out. Yair,
they’re bad today—that southerly
yesterday brought ’em all in.. .”
“Rodney, if I’ve told you once
I’ve told you a hundred times — don’t
throw sand ! And put your singlet
on—you’ll be red-raw by tonight and
you’ll be complaining you can’t
move because you’re so sore. Now
put it on this very instant. Rodney,
come back here... he’s gone, the
little devil. He’s such a tantaliser.
Sometimes he gets me that way I
feel I could pack up right away and
leave the lot of them... ”
.And she says to me ‘Millie,’
she says, T’d make Joe go and see
the doctor —if anything was to hap-
pen to him how are you going to get
on? My Fred,’ she says, ‘used to
get exactly the same turns as the one
Joe got, and you know he was dead
within six munce.’ She’s a Job’s
comforter, that one. All the same, I
think I will get Joe to see about
it....”
“Come on, you blokes, last in
lousy! See you out on the first
breaker....”
“Poor Kath, I did feel sorry for
her. She’d bought, oh, so many
yards of beautiful Terry-towelling in
a lovely shade of green for a beach-
gown, and she gave it to that Mrs.
Tucks to make up for her. Well,
you should have seen it! It all
dropped, and the stitching came
apart at the seams. It was really
dreadful— just looked like a bag on
her. She’s trying to do something
with it herself, but Kath isn’t so hot
on sewing. She cried about it. They
ought to have people up for a thing
like that, you kn0w....”
“Blast this wind —that’s the second
lot of ready-rubbed that’s blown off
the paper! Have you got a tailor-
made on you, Tom?”
“Oh, me and the boy-friend had
a ‘blue.’ He roared at me last Sun-
day when we were going to Kurra-
jong because I wasn’t balancing the
bike —said I didn’t lean over
properly going around bends.
Trouble with him, he was cranky
because lots of other bikes were
passing us, and he hadn’t tuned her
up right. Well, he’s not going to
take it out on me, and I told him so.
He’s got the sulks, but he’ll prob-
ably ring me at work next week and
square off —he always does...”
“Rodney, for the last time — stop
throwing sand! If I have to get
up and come over to you you won’t
forget it in a hurry. And don’t be
tormenting Margaret. He can’t stand
to see his sister playing peacefully
on her own. Yours don’t give you
any trouble on the beach, Em. Why
is it mine do?”
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 10, 1952
Vol 73—No, 3800
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Wesi-ralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.). Wellington.
"SUFFICIENT AND CERTAIN"
What the “resounding” Werriwa result (and to a lesser
extent the Cain victory in Victoria) means is that
the floating voters swallowed the “Labor” bait that
prosperity can be established for ever simply by voting
“Labor.” Dr. Evatt has undertaken to perpetuate the
full-employment” order of more jobs going than men
by means of unlimited public works financed by print-
ing or merely inking-in an unlimited volume of paper-
money.
There is no need, runs this prescription, for
concern about inflation. No need to reduce high
costs; indeed, the “Labor” scheme for inflating our-
selves out of inflation will lift them higher than ever.
No need to raise interest-rates to attract subscriptions
to Government loans ; Dr. Evatt’s coming Government
will reduce interest-rates to any low figure desired, or
abolish interest altogether, by “creating bank credit”
as required. Bad money need have no price at all.
This is not the first time that the mob has hailed
the unscrupulous demagogue. But rarely has an
experienced ex-judge of the highest court in the land,
one of her Majesty’s Privy Councillors and a
claimant to the honors of world statesmanship, so
basely played down to the gutter.
In an era of high costs —dangerously higher against
current production than in any other trading country
in the world —Dr. Evatt reiterates incessantly that it is
not the combination of go-slow, shortened hours of
work, union indiscipline, his Communist allies’ white-
anting of industrial morale, and the shocking waste
of public funds on public works at Government stroke
which is pricing Australian goods out of the interna-
tional market and is even beginning to price Aus-
tralian employees out of their jobs—not these, but the
budgetary policy of the Menzies Government. He
declares that Government’s measures to check
inflation to be not onlv false but unnecessary. The
cure for inflation is, he says, more inflation. With
this homoeopathy he will bring about higher living
standards, higher social standards —political language
for more valuable wages and higher pensions
increased food-production, lower prices, a permanent
choice of jobs for everybody and full protection of
all secondary industries. These are the explicit under-
takings in his “ ‘Labor’s’ eight points.”
This is how he won Flinders and produced a
record Socialist majority in Werriwa. This is how
he proposes to win the Senate elections next year and
will proceed, as Mr. Calwell has boasted, to establish
“Labor” in office in every Parliament in Australia:
“Labor” stands for a policy pf credit-expansion
which will be sufficient and certain to restore tull
employment.
Dr. Evatt would also cut Australia off from united
corrective action within the British Commonwealth
as now being planned in London. He can desire no
co-operation with all other Governments in the
Empire which have agreed that the first step towards
restoring sterling trade and free exchange against the
dollar must be that
Sterling-area members must put their own houses
jn order, particularly in connection with internal
inflation.
Australian costs of employing skilled and unskilled
labor are such that in one industry dear to Dr_
Evatt’s political prospects —the radio industry, which
he castigates the Government for selling out in A.W.A.
they are already (in sterling terms) double those of
Britain. And this is symptomatic. Nor will Dr.
Evatt’s outrageous “policy” get assistance from
American investors, or from the International Bank,
as has been made clear by comments from the govern-
ing board of that institution; and this reaction is
assured further by the A.L.P. recommendation that no
foodstuffs shall be exported till Australian require-
ments at enforced reduced prices are satisfied.
A vote for “Labor” under Evatt will be a straight-
out solicitation for a worse depression than that of
1929-33. Viscount Bruce, at a meeting which crowded
out the Melbourne Town Hall the other, day, warned
Australians that they were heading for serious financial
trouble “unless they change their attitude to the nation s
financial and production problems.”
Costs of production [bo said] have gotqnt of
hand during a period of riotous prosperity. They are
out of line with those in the rest of the world.
Ue implored every Australian, worker, farmer,
"HE'LL NEVER GET OUT! ... LOOKS LIKE HE'S GETTING OUT!"
employer or manager, to ask himself whether he was
seriously bent upon increasing his efficiency.
I could multiply examples of the type of
thinking: I have indicated into every walk of life,
including: activities and services run by Governments
arid semi-Governmental bodies. It is deplorable that
such a mentality should pervade a nation
Industrial production in the outside world today
is 80 per cent, greater than before the war. All this
production is seeking markets. This is the problem
before the economic conference now being held in
Xiondon. It is of vital importance to Australia to
bring down her costs of production....
The danger is so great and the consequences of
not acting now so disastrous that I urge all men of
goodwiU to insist that the necessary action be taken.
The leadership must come from those great industrial
organisations we have built up.
But that, of course, means an end of the class-
war, the chosen means of political advancement for
the ruling “Labor” oligarchy.
Cahill's Sorry Sham
Having secured a new electoral distribution for which
there wasn’t any justification, the new one having
done nothing to redress the wrongs of the old—though
it has increased “Labor’s” chances in several elec-
torates—Mr. Cahill and his followers are now going
to the poll as unobtrusively as possible. They hope
to go under the shelter of the meeting of Federal
Parliament in February, when Dr. Evatt and his friends
can campaign for them in Canberra on the financial
issue.
The government of N. S. Wales is a national as
well as a State matter. The depression of 1929-33,
of which so much is heard from “Labor” Jeremiahs,
would certainly have been a much milder infliction
if Lang in N. S. Wales had not represented a weight
round the entire country’s neck. The war effort of
1939-45 would have made a different story if there had
been a decent N. S. Wales Government in power instead
of the McKell outfit, with its political organisation in
the hands of the Communists (according to Mr.
Beasley), and its unions led by ruffians like Thornton,
whom the State Government did not discourage in their
mission of “turning every factory, every mine, every
ship into a fortress of revolution” at the expense or
war industry. These efforts to sabotage defence hau
their reactions, particularly in fuel and shipping, right
through the Commonwealth.
Mr. Cahill obviously intends to go to the polls
as a sort of Mrs. Gummidge. He is a lone, lorn
creature who has lost the. source of his beer and
prawns, the Loan Council dominated by the wicked
Federal Government having cut off his supplies. In
weeping guise he will appeal to the electors for a
maintenance-order, and it is to be hoped that the
Liberal party is getting ready to forestall him by
lodging an electoral prosecution for attempted fraud
before the hearing comes on.
The outward signs of Mr. Cahill’s dire penury
and betrayal are enough to melt a heart of stone.
The deserted ruin of the Circular Quay station is an
advertisement of his condition. In place of the mob
of hearty toilers who inhabited it a few months ago,
making the Quay ring with their shouts as they went
back and forth from the ample and abundant
bars in the vicinity, it is now a weather-stained
loneliness. And the same atmosphere is apparent
wherever the Cahill Administration is observed,
except in those matters which affect Parliamentary
standards of comfort and in those electorates which
are represented by key “Labor” men and can be won
only by steady spending.
The Eastern Suburbs railway project, as was
pointed out last week, was purely a confidence-trick.
Four years ago Mr. McGirr set out to completp it in
the record time—for N. S. Wales—of four years at a
cost of £44 million ; but he went ahead only at the rate
of £400,000 a year, with a noise and bluster in con-
sonance with the higher figure—which, incidentally,
would have been a mere beginning of the reality in
view of the way costs rose after he began his labors.
How much a sham Mr. Cahill’s pose of
penury is can be estimated by observing the proceed-
ings of the one member of his Ministry whom he
cannot suppress and whom he obviously is afraid to
discipline. Mr. Evatt finds himself in no difficulty
about finance. His large blocks of flats are going up
with never a word about shortage. The immense
Greenway 300-flat block which he began to build in
1949 at North Sydney, and which will cost oyer
£1 000,000 to complete, is going ahead along with a
number of Mr. Evatt’s other projects.
The Cahill Government’s transport system is in
such a muddle that it seems to be out of control.
Every now and then, when the slide to bankruptcy
becomes too obvious to hide, its scandals come to
light. Its management seems to have given up in
despair. It allows the transport unions to make as
many public announcements about its policy as it
mates iteelf. And its services are becomingt worse
and worse. It is nothing now to have to wait: 20
minutes for a tram in a busy street within 10 mmu es
of the heart of Sydney. /
The Sydney ferry services were and
clean under private enterprise even when they seemed
to be broke; they have been reduced to chaos^ce
they have become Government concern . , .
run as their crews like. They aret dirty
The feeder-tram services seem to aU g the
match them. This sort of thing . crew who
bankrupt and
cannot carry on. . ,
They will probably also appeal on their record
as price-fixers “in the interest of t e wor output
h T^/^SdtTar^c^ y examined.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Ottawa or Geneva
Proceedings at the British Common-
wealth Economic Conference in London
on the planning for development of the
Commonwealth’s trading strength deserve
strict attention in Australia.
Fundamentally, the objective is the
revival of sterling’s prestige in inter-
national exchange. The sterling area
embraces some lands outside the Com-
monwealth, but principally the sterling
bloc consists of the British Common-
wealth, except Canada, but including
British colonial lands.
Whatever may have been the ideal of
the free nations who adhere to the U.N.
International Trade Organisation and its
General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
—the purpose of G.A.T.T. was a general
reduction of tariff barriers for the free-
ing of trading intercourse —the subse-
quent slump in export-production of
leading sterling countries as a result of
Welfare State policies at home has obliged
the Commonwealth countries of the
sterling area to consider, first, short-term
plans to check the drain on its dollar
(i.e., international trading) resources, and,
now, a long-term plan for reviving the
strength of sterling trade.
It seems obvious that organisation of
the sterling group for this purpose
demands the retention (in increased effi-
ciency, if necessary) of mutual preferen-
tial tariffs under the Ottawa Agreement of
1932. Mr. Menzies puts forth this view
for Australia, and has apparently firm
support from the leaders of Britain and
N.Z., South Africa (but not for extension
of those preferences) and Pakistan.
Canada prefers G.A.T.T.
U.S.A., the courted source of dollar
favors, has always disliked Imperial pre-
ferential tariffs, and dislikes them the
more effectively at a time when American
blessing must be sought for whatever the
London Conference may decide. There
have been signs already that the Republi-
cans, now in the saddle at Washington,
want assurance against foreign competi-
tion in America’s own home markets.
They want to select their sterling imports.
They want raw materials.
The British Ottawa and the general
Geneva conventions are antagonistic.
The breaking of tariff barriers to trade
must be the ultimate road to world
peace and “freedom from fear and
want.” But no such ideals for world
betterment could survive a collapse in
sterling trade as a whole. Enhanced
organisation of British Commonwealth
trade as a united aim of all its members
will require some broad allotment among
them of the commodity-production so
organised. Increased food output is the
role of Australia. Nothing of this sort
will be done without some protest here
and elsewhere. But there can surely be
no argument on the postulate that nothing
of this sort can be done without Imperial
preferences, albeit these may have to be
modernised.
The Pall of Fear
General Eisenhower seems to have
returned from Korea with the same con-
clusions as are come to by every respon-
sible visitor: that there is no possible
solution which can derive from the
initiative of the U.N.O. nations; that the
status quo must be maintained at all
costs; and that no attempt at extending
the war to Manchuria or in any other
way must be made, or anything done
which will give the Russians and Chinese
(the North Koreans can be forgotten,
they now matter so little) an excuse for
a World War or a drive southward in
mainland Asia.
At the beginning of the year a Bulletin
writer who was in Korea summed-up
the operation there as a “fortress defence
of Japan”; but perhaps the definition
might be extended to include those other
parts of the U.N.O. screen against Rus-
sian aggression in the Pacific. This
defence will have to be continued, and
cannot safely be abandoned.
It is quite obvious - that we Australians,
who as a people are paying so little atten-
tion to the efforts of our own troops, are a
long way from freeing ourselves from
the cost of our share of the Korean
defence and of defence in general. The
Commonwealth can look forward to
maintaining a force of well on to 150,000
men in all services in the near future, and
to increased outlay on defence produc-
tion, whafeyer the greedy, vote-buying
“Labor” Governments like that of Cahill
wish to the contrary.
As Mr. Cahill prepares for his election
and waits for luxury money like a child
howling for jam, the organisation of 25
divisions has been completed in Western
Europe, with organisation for another 25
in reserve on the way: an immense pro-
gramme. ,
The United States has set aside a record
amount for its next arms-buying pro-
gramme for European defence —“approxi-
mately £447,000,000, very largely for
British Centurion tanks and British and
French aircraft, apart from
and war-supplies in general.”
The seriousness and imminence of the
danger are evident in the unity of pur-
pose of the Western nations who every
day see East Germany and Czecho-
slovakia and Poland covered by military
works which can have no use to the
builders except as jumping-off places for
attack across the Elbe. Russian-controlled
troops throng the borders like bees begin-
ning to swarm. Such is the feeling that
there are a few nervous Western states-
men who behind the scenes are even
hinting that it might be well to end the
suspense with a “preventive war” —a move
which would be morally disastrous, what-
ever the physical result. But the most
potent sign of the condition of Europe
is that there seems to be no longer any
real national jealousy in defence matters.
Western Europe, with the United States
and Canada, has become one country in
defence plans. Individual nations have
bases wherever they are likely to be
needed without a word of complaint from
the erstwhile touchy locals.
Cain Comes Back
“Labor’s” win in the Victorian elections
was hardly unexpected; by-elections,
State and Federal, had shown that even
if the anti-“ Labor” forces had been
closely united they would have been hard
put to maintain their majority in the
House. Split into three warring groups,
they weren’t in the race. Ostensibly the
election was fought on the Hollway two-
for-one redistribution plan, and there
seems little doubt that, in the metropolitan
area at any rate, there was a very real
feeling that the time had come to put
an end to Country-party minority-
Government. At the same time the
electors showed no great enthusiasm for
Hollway’s Electoral Reform Liberals.
Hollway himself defeated Liberal-
leader Norman in Glen Iris ; Dennett and
Don, who were not opposed by true-blue
Liberals, held Caulfield and Elsternwick
by reduced majorities; and Tovell, running
against an endorsed Liberal and several
Independents in Brighton, retained his
seat on preferences. Both Hollway and
Tovell obviously benefited from the
swing to “Labor” ; the A.L.P. did not
run a candidate in either Glen Iris or
Brighton. Dawnay-Mould, an E.R.L.
member who was opposed by “Labor,”
saw his small majority of three years ago
turned into a deficit of several thousands.
The sixth Hollway man, Hipworth, lost
Swan Hill to the Country party. In the
final analysis the Country party seems to
have lost only one seat, while the Liberals,
including the Hollway group, are down
ten or twelve.
This suggests two things. The swing
to “Labor” indicates that Federal rather
than State issues determined the result of
the election. (In 1947 feeling against
the Chifley Government’s bank grab
swept “Labor” Premier John Cain out of
office.)
The other point is that dissension in
the Liberal ranks and differences between
Country party and Liberals made
“Labor’s” task almost too easy. From
1950 until six months ago the L.C.P.
could find no words strong enough for
McDonald and his Farmers’ Government
or for the “Labor” party for supporting
it. Then, overnight, and apparently to
avoid an election, the Norman Liberals
swallowed their words and McDonald,
too. The meal has proved a little
gestible.
Who Wants a Shrubbery?
Residents of Clive-avenue, Evattville
(the names are fictitious, but the residents
are not), are very worried folk. Theirs
are Housing Commission homes, and
some of them have been living there 6 %
years—long enough to bring into being
quite a nice little garden.
A week ago the occupant of No. 26a
received by the morning post an envelope
originally containing two documents ; but
by the time it came into his hands the
baby and the dog had jointly breakfasted
off one of them. Inside a dotted rectangle
on the surviving document was a neat
geometrical design about which were
scattered five blobs, bearing alongside
them, respectively, the symbols LT2I,
STS6, SSI47, SSI7B and LSI 16.
Being a well-educated man he knew at
once that it was not a pakapu-ticket, a
betting-slip, a Christmas-beer-ticket or an
invitation to the Artists’ Ball; but beyond
that he hadn’t a clue. After he had
brooded over it for a couple of days the
mystery became too much for him, so he
confided in his friend across the road in
No. 251. “Oh,” said No. 251. “That’s
from the Housing Commission. It’s about
your shrubs.”
No. 26a asked “What shrubs?” and
was reminded that when he first took
possession of the house the commissioner
had promised to supply some shrubs for
the garden. “But, hang it all,” he said,
“that was 61 years ago. I don’t want
them now. The garden’s fixed just how
I want it.” “You’d better get them,” said
his friend. “The letter says they’re ready
waiting for you.” Everyone in the street
had received a similar ticket, differing
only in the symbols and the position
of the blobs. The puzzling geometrical
design was a symbolic ground-plan of
the house. “What are the blobs for?”
asked No. 26a. “That’s where the shrubs
have to go. This one by your bedroom
window, SSI47 —that means small shrub;
then there’s large shrub, small tree and
large tree. Quite simple.
“The numbers tell you what sort of
tree or shrub it is. I don’t know the list,
but they could tell you at the Housing
Commission.”
“Look here,” said No. 26a. “I don’t
want a shrub under my bedroom window.
That’s where I’ve got my best magenta
hydrangea. And this blob in the back-
yard, LT2I ; it’s bang where the centre-
pole of my rotary clothes-line goes.”
“Can’t be helped,” said No. 25%. “You’ll
just have to hope for the best. P’raps
it’ll be a Norfolk Island pine; then you’ll
be able to fix the clothes-line around it.
Of course, it’ll be just too bad if it’s a
Moreton Bay fig.”
After 6% years the residents of Clive-
avenue have become attached to their
hydrangeas, azaleas, weigelas and
cotoneasters; their pencil-pines, blue
spruces, pittosporums and flowering-
gums ; and they don’t want to replace
them with LT2l’s or SSl47’s. Far less
do they want STS6 or LSI 16 to supplant
their rotary clothes-line, their fishpond
or sundial. On the other hand, they
don’t want to hurt the commission’s feel-
ings after it has gone to all the trouble
and expense of buying the ST’s and LS’s
with the money the wicked Federal
Government won’t give it. And they
don’t want the Housing Commission staff
to feel that they have wasted their time
in putting all those blobs on the little
cards, because, after all, they are very
neat blobs when you come to look closely
at them.
No. 26a’s suggestion seems to be the
best way out of the difficulty. His idea
is that the trees and shrubs (both L and S
varieties) should be planted in the nature-
strips along the street, thus making Clive-
avenue the most heavily timbered part
of Evattville. He is busily canvassing the
plan, and hopes to get the residents to
draw lots to see who is to put it up to
the commission.
A Fantasy of Failure
Because it is satisfied that the present
system of State control of potatoes isn
doing anybody much good, N.S-W,
Potato Growers’ Association has called
a conference to see whether Federal
control can be established.
Inviting Queensland Potato Board to
the conference, the association said, in
effect, that present marketing methods
benefited nobody but the “merchan
organisations” in spite of “all that na
been done by State Potato Marketing
Boards.” The Queensland board manager,
saying he’ll attend the conference, ad e
that “exploitation of Section 92 of
Commonwealth Constitution had created
turmoil in the industry.” . , t
There was a lot more, but it ,
matter, because the spectacle of gr° w .
organisations and boards admitting
control doesn’t work and at the same
wanting to create a Commonwealth con-
trol would be dashed amusing
weren’t so maddening. „
Housewives and consumers gen
are now firmly convinced tha
modity-control boards arent worth P
pence. In every State milk, egg, P ’
fish and rice boards have „ or
constant criticism for the past th
four years. Lately a howl of rag • j
in Sydney when a milk-board
refused to knock a penny a pint . ~
because it “might be dearer next *
(Continued on page 7)
The Australiana Boom
When huge and handsome books come
rolling off the presses faster than they
can be reviewed the times are phenomenal
for Australian literature.
This week the Red Page has W. J.
Dakin’s tremendous scientific picnic on
Australian Seashores, Ronald Berndt’s
discovery and translation of an aboriginal
epic from Arnhem Land, James Tyrrell’s
rich and crowded Old Friends, Old Books,
Old Sydney.
Last week there was M. H. Ellis’s
bombshell on the new Ralph Rashleigh
and his review of Geoffrey Ingleton’s
carnival of history in True Patriots All;
the week before, Valiant Occasions, by
J. E. Macdonnell (“Macnell”), a historical
novel by Rex Ingamells and Mary Durack
Miller’s book on the aboriginal boy-
artists of Carrolup, W.A., one of whom
has just provided a tragic sequel by killing
an old Chinaman with a hoe ; the week
before that, a new Idriess, selection from
C. J. Dennis’s verse and some expert
essays on the Constitution; the week
before that, Coast to Coast and an Aus-
tralian country-town novel by Peter
Gladwin, The Desert in the Heart.
There still remain to be reviewed, when
time and space permit, such books as
Kylie Tennant’s Jubilee prize-winning
play about Deakin and Federation, Tether
a Dragon; the third volume in Angus
and Robertson’s standard edition of
Brent of Bin Bin, Ten Creeks Run; a
life of Bass, a desert travel-book, a book
about Australian roads, Colin Simpson’s
novel Come Away t Pearler, G. Nesta
Griffiths’s Some Southern Homes of
N.S.W., which digs up the history of
some of the beautiful old houses of the
Monaro sheep-country.
Of course it is Christmas that has
caused the present flood. Everybody
who writes a book wants to have it out,
and reviewed, for Christmas, in the hope
that even if people won’t read it them-
selves they will give it away to someone
else—a modest hope, and an estimable
one. What better Christmas present can
there be than an Australian book at a
pound unless it is a picture at from five
to ten guineas at one of the special
Christmas exhibitions now showing, or
about to be shown, in most of the
capitals?
But this is only the climax of a steady
stream of publishing in a remarkable
year.
The most marked, trend has been the
boom in Australiana, documentary and
historical: a new edition of' M. H. Ellis’s
Macquarie, another volume of Justice
Ferguson’s immense Bibliography of Aus-
tralia, T. C, Roughley’s Fish and Fisheries
of Australia, a reprint of Dr. George
Mackaness’s Bligh, Ernestine Hill’s
The Territory, Dr. Arundel Orchard’s
Music in Australia, R. and C. Berndt’s
From Black to White in South Australia,
John O’Brien’s On Darlinghurst Hill,
Keith McKeown’s spine-chilling Aus-
tralian Spiders, The Bulletin’s Rachel
Henning with Norman Lindsay illustra-
tions, Hawdon’s Journal of a Journey with
the first cattle from N. S. Wales to
Adelaide, and so to Ingleton, Dakin,
Tyrrell and the classic or near-classic
Ralph Rashleigh and Brent of Bin Bin.
In poetry we have had Robert D.
Fitz Gerald’s great narrative-poem Be-
tween Two Tides, Douglas Stewart’s Sun
Orchids, Francis Webb’s Leichhardt in
Theatre. In the short-story, though we
still await collections by Brian James,
E. O Schlunke and James Hackston,
there have been Coast to Coast and
Judah Waten’s Alien Son. In the novel
there have been Dymphna Cusack’s Say
No To Death, Ruth Park’s The Witch’s
Thorn, Charles Shaw’s Heaven Knows,
Mr. Allison, Dal Stivens’s Jimmy
Brackett, Helen Fowler’s The Shades Will
Not Vanish, Seaforth Mackenzie’s Dead
Men Rising (withdrawn from circulation
in this country), a reprint of Geoffry
Hamlyn and T. A. G. Hungerford’s out-
standing war-story The Ridge and the
River, which has sold 26,000 copies—an
extraordinary sale for an Australian
novel and a good figure anywhere.
It is an astonishing array. It means
not only that Australian belles lettres have
reached a very high standard, as have
the publishers in their printing and bind-
ing, but that, since many of these volumes
have been best-sellers, the public is aware
of and interested in the Australian tradi-
tion as perhaps never before. It marks a
step forward, a consolidation, not only in
bookselling but in nationhood.
The Bulletin this week and until
Christmas will stage a window-display of
recent and current books by members
of its staff and regular or occasional con-
tributors which have helped to swell this
flood—quite a considerable total. Those
of the George-street crowds who miss
the customary show of joke-blocks may.
have to buy The Bulletin for a week
or two in order to keep in touch.


Users Report — “IT’S WONDERFUL!
CO
The EFFECTIVE treatment for
RHEUMATISM
ARTHRITIS
GOUT
and swollen and inflamed joints
There is NO substitute
Colchisone is the only treatment of its kind available in Au “
Made in England from a special formula. it , contains
effective ingredients which, when blended to B t y 01 ,j- s f an di ns
process used in the manufacture of this amazmg product, give outstanding
and almost instant relief. It is guaranteed harmless.
COLCHISONE
All Chemists. Price 80/- per bottle with diet
instructions (one bottle is usually sufficient).
Rickard Medical Products Pty Ltd., 21 Oxford Street,
and it came out that people had ci:
milk-buying down and an ocean of r:
was going to process-plants.
The mystery of it all is how the farmers
who produce these foods are persuaded
into believing that sets of officials can
market their goods better than they can
themselves. Not that there aren’t as
many farmer critics of the boards, pro-
portionately, as there are consumer
critics. But the boards continue, and
as long as they do so long will the
commodities they control be luxuries
instead of staple foods.
As for thinking of making them
Federal because they have failed as State
boards the present Federal Government
wouldn’t think of it, and neither would
anybody else with sense.
POLITICAL POINTS
Counting of the slain and identification
of the bodies are still in progress on the
Victorian battlefield. When it’s all over
“Labor” will have 36 or 37 seats in the
new Parliament; the Country-party a
dozen; L.C.P. 10 or 11 and the Hollway
Liberals 4, There will also be one
Independent Labor man —Mutton, who
managed to stave off an onslaught by
official Labor in Coburg. An independent
Independent, R. B. Leonard, journalist
and radio-man, looks like picking up the
remaining seat, Ivanhoe.
General feeling in Melbourne is that
the anti-“ Labor” parties brought their
defeat upon themselves —the Country
party by its blatant policy of expediency
above all, and the L.C.P. by its inability
to make up its mind whether the C.P,
was its friend or foe. “Labor” is for
the moment on top, but many thinking
Liberals feel that it is better to have a
system under which one or other party
will secure a clear majority than to con-
tinue on the backing-and-filling lines of
the last 20 years.
Hollway’s comment late on Saturday
night, when it was clear that he had
defeated Liberal-leader Norman in Glen
Iris, was to the effect that that was the
happiest day of his life. This may have
been true, but if he aspires to regaining
the leadership of the L.C.P. it was hardly
tactful, seeing that the party for whose
leadership he and Norman had been
rivals had just lost over a dozen seats.
The lesson for all Liberals to learn
from the Victorian election is that unity
and an efficient organisation are essential
to their party if they wish to stand any
chance of winning the elections coming
up during 1953. “Labor’s” game of play-
ing-up economic difficulties and pretend-
ing to have a panacea for all our troubles
may be unscrupulous, but it is un-
doubtedly getting results, and this is
largely due to “Labor’s” efficient organ-
isation.
Cain now has the job ahead of him.
In a pre-election statement he spoke of
bringing pressure to bear on the Federal
Government for more money, though his
colleague Cahill could have told him the
answer to that one. If unable to get it,
vowed Cain, then “Labor” was “prepared
to pledge the future to provide facilities
for the youngsters who will be citizens
in 10 to 15 years.” That is the sort of
noble-sounding talk that won “Labor” the
Victorian election and has been winning
it seats at by-elections. If, through the
shortsightedness of the electors, it
becomes possible for Federal and State
“Labor” to put it into practice, the
“youngsters who will be citizens in 10
to 15 years” will find a mighty unwelcome
legacy left to them by the Evatts and
Cains.
• «
Before Calwell blithers any more about
nationalising television (and, ultimately,
radio) he Should take a public-opinion
Poll among “Labor” supporters to find
out what proportion of them listens to
A.B.C. programmes -.and what to com-
mercial stations.
• •
Returning to his theme that a little
extra work all round would cure most of
our economic ills, Professor Copland says
that there has been a drop of 10 p.c. in
r eal income and that if the Australian
standard of living is to be maintained
this must be made good. His recipe is a
concerted effort to:
L Increase output.
2. Raise the general level of productivity.
3. Make exports competitive in world
markets.
4. Increase the competitive power of
local industry against imports.
The point Copland has been plugging for
s °me time is that this programme is not
a terrific one to ask of the community.
It requires only “a moderate increase in
individual effort.” The important thing
ls that the increase must be general, not
merely from a small section.
One thousand South Koreans are to
be incorporated in the British Common-
wealth Division as part of a scheme for
closer co-operation between U.N. forces.
Details are not yet complete, but it
appears that some S.K.s will be attached
to the Royal Australian Regiment. Yet
a young Fijian whose greatest ambition in
life is to serve with the Australian forces
was discharged from the Army as soon
as his identity was discovered and then
deported to Fiji.
• •
As Brisbane “Courier-Mail” put it:
This was Parliament’s big day yesterday,
by the dock:
11 a.m.: Resume sitting.
I p.m.: Adjourn for lunch.
2.15 p.m.; Resume sitting,
6 p.m.: Adjourn for tea.
7.15 p.m.: Resume sitting,
II p.m.: Adjourn until today.
Still, sitting between meals is a common
enough local habit.
• •
Critics of the Government’s import-
restrictions can hardly refute the state-
ment that if it were not for the restrictions
our overseas trade position would be
pretty sticky. In the year ended June 30,
1952, only one month, June, showed a
surplus of exports over imports. For the
five months since then the surplus has
totalled £ll2 million, but there is still
a good way to go before the drain on
London funds caused by last year’s
import flood is made good.
• •
Is there a depression doctor in the
house? Last Wednesday the liner
Orcades left Sydney on an Islands cruise
with a record number of passengers on
board.
• •
Urged on by Guatemala, Haiti, Salva-
dor, Liberia and other member-countries
of the “United” Nations of similar exalted
democratic statue, U.N.O, is fast making
a fool of its charter-clause about non-
interference in domestic issues of its
members. France has joined South
Africa in rejecting a resolution declaring
internal political issues to be of inter-
national concern ; Kenya looks like being
next on the list; and after that Australia
can expect “Greaser”-State inspectors on
a witch-hunt in New Guinea. Britain
has already said in blunt words that her
proposals for political development of
her African colonies are no concern of
any busybody outside them.
• •
Opening his campaign for the Bradfield
by-election. Independent candidate
Hardie, Q.C., gave the impression that he
regarded the poll as a straight-out fight
between himself and S’Artie Fadden.
This is not so. Three other Independents,
an unendorsed “Labor” man and, of
course, the selected Liberal candidate,
H. B. Turner, are also in the field;
Fadden is not.
In addition to Independents Samuel
Simons and Edward Wright, previously
mentioned here, a last-minute entrant,
Colin Potts, has been added to the list.
J. Somerville Smith is the uninvited bearer
of the “Labor” banner.
• •
When told that Brisbane tram- and bus-
revenue from July to October was more
than £20,000 below estimates, the city’s
Transport and Electricity chairman (Aid.
Coutts) said it .showed how bad unem-
ployment was in Brisbane. In the next
breath he said the income from the supply
of electric-light and -power was “increas-
ing at a satisfactory rate.” The Calwell
foot-in-mouth disease seems to be spread-
ing.
• •
It ought to have startled Australians
to read that “a bill to permit private
enterprise to develop television” will have
to be passed. This is because Dr. Evatt’s
party, busy socialising everything in 1948,
made a law to stop private enterprise
from developing television. This country
can’t afford Governments that stop
private capital from developing lawful
enterprises, but that’s what it will get
unless it realises the true aims of “Labor.”
Dr. Evatt told a Ballarat audience that
101,000 were looking for work, and added,
“How any Government can remain
quiescent about the situation appears
criminal to me.” Well over half the
number (if that is the number) are in
N.S.W. and most of them in Sydney,
where a “Labor” Government has ruled
since 1941. Still, the Sydney “Labor”
Government isn’t quiescent—it’s squealing
to high heaven that everybody is to blame
but itself ; it even accuses N.S.W. citizens
who buy motor-cars of. sabotaging its
derelict transport system,
• •
Speaker Lamb, in the N. S. Wales
Assembly, telling of the visit of some
schoolboys to the House:
When their teacher told me that on their
return to school they would be required to
write essays on what they had seen I sug-
gested that he send the best efforts to me.,
He did so, and one lad had written these
words: “The Hansard staff take down
every word that is uttered in Parliament,
even the wisecracks—if there are any. And
then they translate them into English.”
• •
Evatt’s contribution on polling-day to
Victorian voters was that the Common-
wealth Government’s measures to pro-
tect overseas trade balances and to carry
out the Empire Finance Ministers’ reso-
lutions for fighting internal inflation in
each Empire country “has caused much
unnecessary harm.” That is nothing to
the harm Evatt is deliberately doing to
the cause of maintaining Australia’s
national solvency.
« «
For many years there has been a limit
imposed on the production of margarine,
the idea behind it being the protection of
the dairying industry. This year, with
butter at sky-high prices compared with
the days when the limit was introduced,
most States have increased the permissible
margarine quota. Result: a howl from
the buttermen and a demand for a higher
tariff on copra, the chief component of
margarine.
This sort of reaction seems to be
almost automatic nowadays; the idea of
meeting competition by greater effort
never occurs to anyone. In medieval days
the cry used to be “The King ought to
stop it.” The modern equivalent is “The
Government should do something about
it.” It is a philosophy that plays into the
hands of the Socialists.
• •
The greatest disservice Dr. Evatt and
his party are doing Australia is their
refusal to stress the importance of hard
work and increased output. It is not
unnatural that an unthinking youth should
regard a job merely as a synonym for
pay-envelope, but people aspiring to lead
the nation should have a broader outlook
than that. “Labor’s” emphasis is always
on the size of the pay-envelope; never
on the work that should be given in ex-
change ; always on the “rights” of the
worker, never on his duties or respon-
sibilities. The bigger the slice of the
national income received by the wage-
earner, the bigger his obligations. There
can’t be any one-way traffic about it.
• •
Savings-bank deposits continue their
upward trend. Total at the end of October
was £9lB million, an increase of £8 mil-
lion for the month and £6l million
above the figure for October last year.
• •
Speaking on .“The Growing Status of
Agriculture,” Professor Trumble, head
of the South Australian Waite Research
Institute, said people were “slowly
awakening to the realisation that farm-
ing was more than an occupation for
muscle-men.” When it comes to the
handling of farm-products there’s plenty
of occupation for muscle-in men.
• •
That “peace”-loving body, the Peking
Comintern, for which some clerical and
other Australian stooges fell heavily, now
turns on India, as author of the com-
promise peace terms for Korea, as “ally-
ing itself with the West in hostile actions
against Communist nations.” The dead
silence among the local barrackers for
the Peking stunt is most eloquent.
Cain has' a brilliant scheme for stabi-
lising prices ; he’ll urge the Federal Gov-
ernment to take over price-control. His
plan has only three drawbacks; (1) the
Federal Government doesn’t want (2)
the Federal Government hasn’t the con-
stitutional powers, and the people have
refused to give them to it, (3) price-control
without wage-control and direction of
labor just isn’t possible.
• •
The outback will never run short of
optimists. A Hay-Ouyen Railway League
has been formed to “press for construc-
tion of a rail-link” from Hay (N.S.W.)
to Ouyen (Vic,). Hay is on the end of
a 4ft. B*iu. gauge from Sydney, Ouyen
on a sft. 3in. gauge on the Melbourne-
Mildura line with a branch (sft. 3in.)
through Murrayville to Adelaide. In the
present state of Victorian and N.S.W.
Government finances, the league’s voice
will be as faintly heard as that of a
mallee-hen on the shores of Lake Hattah.
• •
A Canadian journalist named Filion
was deeply shocked to discover women
in Moscow working as street-cleaners and
general-laborers. Didn’t he realise that
you can’t have the Communist State
unless the girls hop in, too?
• •
West Australian Railways Minister
Simpson has told Perth citizens that
few suburban trains will run on Saturday
afternoons and fewer still on Sundays—
the whole suburban weekehd rail-service
will be about one-third what it was before
the strike. The strike ended a couple of
months ago, after lasting six months, was
staged as a “protest on marginal
increases” or something, and proved that
Perth could get along without suburban
trains.
• •
An English goldsmith has invented a
brick with two large perpendicular holes.
The bricks are laid in layers of four or
five, liquid cement poured into , the holes
and columns of cement thus formed down
the building. It is claimed that a brick-
layer can lay eight times more bricks a
day than by the old method. That is the
theory ; time alone could show what the
darg would do to it.
• •
A fortnight after the then Vic. Premier
ordered a “searching investigation” into
the sending of unemployed Italian immi-
grants on a wild-goose chase to Alice
Springs, a Melbourne paper noted that
the “searching investigation” was “lagging
badly.” Any time that paper discovers
a Government department of any sort
getting something done in a fortnight it
can regard it as the news-story of the
year.
• •
“Hands off the peoples’ assets” is one
of the current catchcries by which
“Labor” is trying to convince the public
that the Menzies Government is a tool
of the bloated capitalists, hell-bent on
handing over to its masters property of
inestimable value to the community, and
from which the same bloated capitalists
will rake in big profits rightfully belong-
ing to the people. Fadden put things in
proper perspective when he said, anent
the Commonwealth Shipping Line, that it
was rather a strange sort of asset that
had cost the taxpayers more than £5
million since the war.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Tok”: New Guinea is a one-way
street for empty beer-bottles. I calculate
that here, at Manus naval base, for in-
stance, 5880 bottles are emptied weekly ;
305,760 yearly. And the whole darned
lot are dumped into the sea. The cost in-
volved in freighting empties south decides
against return. Of course, a naval ship
could carry them, but it would be em-
barrassing if war were declared and all
the “pusser’s wagon” had for the enemy
was beer-bottles —empties, at that.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“H.C.8.”; Most cyclists are convinced
that all motorists are homicidal maniacs;
most car-drivers are just as positive that
every cyclist is a potential suicide. My
mate, a motorist in working hours and
a cyclist for recreation, blends the two
irreconcilables thus: “When I’m driving
and there’s a cyclist ahead I say to myself,
‘lt’s no use relying on this clown to give
a signal, because they never do; just
be ready to stamp on the brake.’ But
when I’m on the bike I think, ‘lt’s useless
to signal a turn, because they just toot
and keep coming; a cyclist has only one
right—to get out of the way,’ ” The
day after he had expressed his views I
saw him give an exemplary signal, then
bring his bike round in a right-hand turn.
A following car eased up momentarily,
then passed on his left. Taxed with this
breach of his own policy he grinned;
“That car had an ‘L’ on it; learners
don’t break rules ; when he’s had his
licence six months it would be suicide to
do what I just did.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Ben Ari”: Recent arrival in Perth of
a luxury-brand timepiece drew early-
morning crowds to a jeweller’s window,
where the chronometer was being put
through its paces. Punishment, meted out
by special machine, included magnetisa-
tion, dropping on a steel-plate and pro-
longed dunking in colored water, the
process being repeated 60 to the hour.
The same afternoon, still nobly toiling,
the hardy clockwork lay in its immersion
stage. Adorning its testing-ground hung
the ironic notice: “Machine overheated—
resuming trials later.”
❖ *> *l*
F.S.”; Latest bit of modern art
bunkum is a piece of sculpture called
’Australia” which has caused an immense
sensation in the U.S. It is a construction
of rusty iron wire 6ft. lOin. high by David
Smith, whom “American Art News” de-
scribes as “possibly the most powerful
yet subtle sculptor America has yet pro-
duced.” According to the author, the
drawing and work were conceived and
executed without conscious identification
with the subject; in short, it was intuitively
directed. After its completion Mr. Smith
realised to his amazement that elements
of purely imagined kangaroo anatomy,
leaves that he imagined koalas would eat,
“Stop, stop! You've got the piccolo-player's score!"
memories of bushman art and unidentified
flora and fauna of Australia had been
assembled in dream form ; so the only
possible title could be “Australia.” A
photograph of the masterpiece has been
printed in the Melbourne “Herald” with
a laudatory notice from its critic. The
first impression is that it is a drawing by
a five-year-old child; the second, that there
is much less variety in it than in the tangle
of barbed-wire Strawberry the cow
made when she broke through the fence
at milking-time this morning.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Swelpme”: An uncle has his duties,
and when the mother of my two young
nephews was prevented from keeping an
appointment with Santa Claus it was up
to Unc. to do the right thing. Through-
out the trip in the train those two cherubs
babbled excitedly about Santa. A wait
of half an hour in a queue at the store
was borne in patient excitement. Then
%WM
“ There — that'll hide the moth-holes."
came the great moment! There in all his
glory sat the old gent. —being cooked by
a high-powered lamp for the benefit of
a cameraman while he dandled kids on
his knees at four-bob a dandle. My
charges took one look at him, threw back
their heads and bellowed ; and not until
we’d joined the other bawling kids out-
side would they turn off the waterworks.
And yet those two little contradictions
have never stopped talking about Santa
since! I suppose I’ve nothing to com-
plain about—they’re happy and they
saved me eight-bob—but I would like to
know what the old boy was really think-
ing when he jovially called them “a pair
of silly old duffers.”
*X* <*
“Ann”: “Bo’s” model speech for a
wedding reception (B. 19 /11/’52) might
go off well if expressed by a civil servant
or a citizen unattached to local business,
but one of our storekeepers who made
facetious comments on the relief of
parents at seeing son and daughter
hitched lost the custom of both families.
He has now sworn off wedding receptions
for life.
+♦+ ++♦ ♦+«■
“M.”: This year’s pilgrimage to the
Gordon memorial cottage at Ballarat
was marked by the presentation to the
already remarkable collection of Gordon
mementoes of a wreath of English wild-
flowers. In 1888, when John Hewlett
Ross published The Laureate of the
Centaurs, his biography of Gordon, it
attracted the attention of Jane Lees, nee
Bridges, Gordon’s boyhood sweetheart.
She gave Ross the wreath, with a request
that he place it on Gordon’s grave in the
Brighton (Vic.) cemetery. On his return
to Melbourne in 1892 Ross organised
the first pilgrimage to Gordon’s grave.
Brighton was then a lonely spot, and,
fearful of the safety of the wreath, he
took it back to his office, where it
remained till this year. Ross is now 96,
mentally alert and much sought by
literary societies for addresses on Aus-
tralian authors. He is the last of the
poets that appeared in Sladin’s Century
of Australian Song and the only living
person known to have talked with Johnny
Fawkner, one of the founders of Mel-
bourne. As Fawkner was born in 1792,
this means a span of 160 years.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spoke”: With the end of the school
year it-can be expected that the papers
will be full of reports of headmasters’
speeches and that nine out of ten of the
headmasters will make a scathing de-
nunciation of the examination system
before handing out the prizes. They were
doing it 50 years ago and they have been
doing it every year since, yet the system
seems to have become more firmly en-
trenched than ever. The only headmaster
I know who has made his example co-
incide with his precept runs a small State
school in my district; although exams are
held according to the regulations every-
one gets a prize at the annual break-up.
* ❖ ❖
“Uco”: When the court official asked
the jurymen if any of them wished to
seek exemption from service only one
of our number rose to his feet. He was
wafted from our presence and we thought
to see him no more. Ten o’clock passed,
and ten-fifteen. At ten-twenty his Honor
entered the court, a few words in under-
tones were exchanged with the clerk,
then in came our unwilling colleague.
Looking rather as if he was about to face
a capital charge, he took the Book and
was duly sworn. Then the judge spoke
up. “I understand, Mr. Juror, that you
wish to be excused from jury service?”
Yes, that was so. His Honor then
delivered a little homily on the obliga-
tions of a citizen, the duty of men of
good standing to assist in the
processes of the law and not to
evade their responsibilities
simply because of trivial incon-
veniences. When all that had
sunk in, he said, “Come now,
what’s your reason for seeking
exemption?” The victim looked
at the clock, which was now
showing ten-twentyfive. “Well,
your Honor,” he said, “I’m
supposed to be at the Traffic
Court at ten o’clock.” “Hm!” said the
judge. “Well, better late than never, I
suppose. Exemption granted.”
*> *> ❖
“C. 8.”: The Arms of the Diocese of
Melbourne, which look like a surrealist
picture of an astonished curate, have
turned out to be improper—-that is, their
use for the past 100 years since the
incumbency of Melbourne’s first bishop,
Bishop Perry, has been improper. Last
year it was discovered that they had not
been granted by the College of Arms,
which has been checking-up on these
things since the reign of Richard Crook-
back, and which also discovered a few
years ago that the arms of the City ol
Melbourne weren’t all they should be.
R. L. Gair, a Melbourne merchant with
an interest in heraldry, has now fixed it
all up. He took a copy of the arms to
England, the college O.K.’d it and the
Melbourne insignia will now appear m
the directory of heralds.
■* * ❖
“K.C.L.”; Drop sixpence into the slot,
press the button marked “blank,’ and
for three whole minutes there’s silence.
So a cafe proprietor in a small country
town has satisfied a number or his
patrons. Some time ago he installed a
juke-fiox. The increase in the number o
patrons was noticeable, but so was e
noise. One evening a disgruntled customer
suggested in jest that a blank disk wou
at least allow an occasional period o
quiet. Others heard the remark, con-
sidered it seriously and approached
proprietor. The request was novel y
reasonable, so he complied. Now, any
one who prefers a little table-chatter wi
out the accompaniment of the latest
jive pays sixpence for the privilege,
♦*4 <+ ♦♦♦
“Rooster”: Hospitals, when you’re
forced to stay in bed, can be extre Y
boring. But it was while I was spin
bashing unavoidably in an Army hos
on the Atherton Tableland (Q )
had my first crack at journalism.
Army’s weekly paper, “Tabletops, o
£2 for the best short story sent in eve y
fortnight. I submitted so ® e . . Qt
personal experience, and hit the ] P
five times in a row. Boredom van
I took on a course in freelancing,
wasn’t long before Mr. Micawbe ,
his “Thank goodness that’s P al it u’ s
my way on a Bulletin cheque. _*■
Weekly,” till its lamented denuse,
had me on its cheque-list. * ,
famous, but it’s an interesting > :
and boredom has gone for goo ■ j
all as the result of a cartilage r
from the knee.
A FELT WANT
If evolution evolutes
Up, and not down like Sydney trams,
Let it evolve some substitutes
For boys who fret about exams:
“Is heavy water dry or wet ?
I knew Part ( b ) of Section O,
But did I do it ? I forget —
I’ll have to wait a month to know.”
I’ve been a most home-working father,
Solving problems all year long,
And if they’ve got me in a lather,
I’ve known next night if I was wrong
(Difficult things, like “A and B
Exchange the sum of 7 X’s:
If A is she and B is he,
State the result in terms of sexes.”)
But papers set for boys to do
Completely on their own, for once,
Bring two new factors into view —
The Unknown Quantity, and munce :
Will one boy’s answers be inclined
In weeks of worry, as last night,
To change as often as his mind ?
And if they do, will they be right?
O vocative of angelorum,
Save me from an early grave,
Give me the peace and the decorum
A homework father ought to have;
Give me a crystal to achieve
A vision of a month to come.
The future-perfect to relieve
The present-tenseness of our home!
N.S.W,
SWILLIAM.


“Bamekaw”: A cold-war, with the par-
ticipants unseen by, and. probably
unknown to, each other, has been waging
in our locality. The usual Commo wall-
defacer had been having a pretty open
go, and his exhortation, “Menzies must
go,” remained untouched for a while till
someone on the other side simply added
“on,” to make it an inspiring slogan for
the P.M. This was erased, and “Out
Menzies!” substituted. It was too easy.
A couple of squiggles on the “t,” and it
became an affectionate “Our Menzies.”
The Commo then tried “Oust Menzies.”
It stayed a little longer while the other
“I think you might drop a gentle hint that our party's over.”
Woke was thinking up something effective.
Then, one morning,- we woke up to see
the“OU” rubbed out, and "a period added
|her the “ST.” So far this canonisation
proved too much for the Red, but
we’re all waiting for the next round.
❖ <*
“Pat”; Concerned by a neighbor’s
after-dinner habit of “dropping-in-to-
Knock-a-bottle,” Johnno determined to
wean him to “a nobbler-and-cigarette”
half-hour instead. Friday-night, when the
dropper-in arrived, the stage was suitably
Johnno, relaxed full-length on the
Jounge, represented a convincing version
of businessman enjoying well-earned rest;
but his hospitality did not waver. “Care
f°r a spot?” he queried affably, and,
receiving a slightly puzzled affirmative,
called to his teenager to bring in a bottle
an d glasses. After five minutes, unwill-
lng to disturb his suggestive pose, he
called again. Daughter finally appeared,
hushed but triumphant. “Sorry, Dad, but
. had to get one from the new case down
ln the garage. The one in the cupboard
Was only quarter-full.”
‘Macnell”; While agreeing with the
reviewer (B. 26/11 / ’52) who found me
somewhat uninterested in the sea through
hose valiant occasions, I submit that
there is a good reason for this. Conrad
a p his contemporaries had to bend the
dements to their will, and were with good
cause respectful of their strength, but
oday men on anything bigger than frigate
r destroyer need worry little about any-
I m 8 °ld Neptune can throw at them.
r> the days of sail, when a ship of the
, lne found herself being driven on a
cc-shore, only the seamanship of her
jrptain could claw her off it. , Today,
ttould a major warship be in the same
predicament-assuming her asdic, echo-
sounders and radar allowed her to get
there—her captain has merely to bend his
back and order “Half-ahead together.”
Over 100,000 horsepower (in the case of
a 1952 ship of the line) will roar and
laugh at anything under a hurricane—
and birds of that feather are pretty rare,
and can be avoided. As well, that super-
human affair, the gyro-roll corrector,
automatically and electrically ensures that,
no matter what the roll, a warship’s guns
will not fire till they are on the target.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“W.M.”; Tell “C.W.H.” (B. 19/11/’52)
to have a good look next time he visits
Rockhampton and he’ll find that the main
Northern Railway line does not run
through the main street. What’s more,
it never did. It certainly runs along a
street in which several industrial build-
ings are situated, but the main street is
at least a quarter of a mile away.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emjai”: The Savoy Cafe, in Little
Collins-street, was thp rendezvous of the
young bloods and the hub of Melbourne’s
social night-life 40 years or so ago, and
bright and lively it was in the days when
Ossinoff dispensed the hospitality. After
it closed down I saw in a private home
a fine specimen of a grandfather-clock
which had stood in the cafe for years
and which carried a record of fun and
games. One Melbourne Cup night the
wool-boys were making whoopee, and at
3 a.m. a revolver was produced for a
shooting-match at the swinging pendulum
of the big clock. Next day the clock
was taken away for repairs, and came
back with the pendulum inscribed:
“Memento of Melbourne Cup Night,
19——,” and with the initials of each
marksman over his bullethole. The dead-
centre hole bore the initials “L.S.F.”
The Savoy, with other bright spots, is
gone, submerged in Melbourne’s night-
pall of gloom, and even the wool-boys of
the stature of the late Leigh Sadlier
Falkiner must find less noisy outlets for
exuberance.
* *** ***
“Pip Tok”: Although I hate to see a
congenial word debased I have long
ceased to shudder at milk-bars, snack-bars
and the like. In the good old days I
recognised only two bars, the sixpenny
and the threepenny. I can reconcile
myself to the economic changes that have
replaced them by saloon- and public-bars.
But there is a limit, and I found it last
week when my wife dragged me in to a
place where, above a tousled spread of
those quaint things women call hats, there
was a large placard informing us that we
had arrived at the “millinery-bar.”
♦> ♦> ♦♦♦
“X.S.”: As a result of a public uproar
over the banning of a couple of books
by the Customs in Melbourne it recently
came out that the list of books which
these official censors of literature have
sat on contained no fewer than 700 titles.
This figure was subsequently expanded by
Collector of Customs Brophy to 1100,
putting this country almost in the class of
Jiire, which bans more than 2000. The
list appears to be kept secret; booksellers
aren’t allowed to see it, and frequently
order new editions of books which have
been on the Customs index for years, only
to have them confiscated on arrival.
Nobody knows for certain why the works
have been banned ; the Customs censors
are under no obligation to reveal their
reasons, but, generally speaking, obscenity
is supposed to be the charge brought
against them. Unfortunately, “obscenity”
“Where did THEY come from?”
hasn’t any universal meaning. If you are
asked what “horse” means you can give
the definition and you can also point to
an example. If you are asked what
“obscene” means you can also give a
definition, but you get into all sorts of
difficulties when you start pointing to
examples, Rodin’s sculpture was once
regarded as obscene ; today anybody who
said it was would be regarded as an old-
fogey. Most of the examples given by
the Customs censors are open to the same
objections.
* * ♦>
“Bourke-street”: The recent erection
of a memorial cairn and plaque at the
home of C. J. Dennis at Toolangj is only
one sign of the revival of interest in the
poet. The residents of his home-town,
Auburn (S.A.), plan to erect a drinking-
fountain opposite the hotel in which he
was born. The secretary of the move-
ment, Mrs. J. Glover, Box 12, Auburn
(S.A.), will be glad to hear from admirers
of the poet.
❖ ❖ ❖
“X.M.N.”: Naval uniform now in the
experimental stage promises changes as
striking as the introduction of battle-
dress during the war. Experiments are
being made with white plastic-topped caps
for both officers and ratings. If adopted
these will be worn all the year round.
A new range of clothing is also being
tried out, together with raincoats with
detachable linings. Oilskins will no
longer clutter the messdecks ; they will be
superseded by fabric impregnated with
polyvinyl chloride, a non-inflammable
plastic. Kapok-lined cotton garments
will replace the familiar duffle-coat for
cold-weather use.
❖ ❖
“R.L.W.”: One prominent cleric has
been urging parsons to inject more humor
into their sermons in order to hold the
interest of their congregations. It re-
minds me of the time our battalion padre
complained to the C.O. of the indiffer-
ence of the troops at church-parades—
out of 800 men, only a few voices were
ever heard above the thin, wavering voice
of the padre. The C.O. promised to do
something about it, and he did. He
called a special parade, to which the
padre was not invited. “There is no-
thing,” he told us, “in the rules to say
I can order you to sing. Moreover, I
feel that the thing most lacking is in-
centive. From next Sunday, to the
platoon which sings the loudest, I will
personally shout a case of beer,” The
following Sunday, as the padre struck
up the opening bars of “Abide With Me,”
800 voices roared in unison out across
the desert. Thereafter the padre never
had cause to complain, and as far as I
can say he never found out why.
♦♦♦ >J<
“Bo”: I had been looking idly over a
line of reasonably-priced hats when the
salesman descended on me like a vulture.
Swiftly he indicated, more in sorrow than
in despair, that the shape of my head
wouldn’t suit the one I was looking at.
“Now here,” he purred, waving his hand
towards an imported aristo sitting proudly
on its own stand and priced at four
guineas, “is a beautiful hat. You can see
it has character.” “Well, that’s certainly
reassuring,” I put in. “I’d hate to invest
in a hat which later turned out to have
an unpleasant disposition. We’d never
get along together.” He ignored my re-
mark and went on, “You can see at a
glance the bloom on- it, which only the
hat of fine quality possesses. It is a hat
you will be proud to take off in a lift, a
hat you will take off the peg every morn-
ing with affection. And it is one that
will suit your every mood!” “I see —
equally adaptable to the gay, the grave,
the reckless, the meditative, the exalted?”
I asked. “Exactly,” he said, and I could
see the smile of the triumphant mug-
snarer as he adjusted the carbon-paper
in his book for the higher sale his line
of talk had brought him. “Well, I
happen to be in a filthy mood,” I said,
as I moved off, “and with that such a
glorious hat couldn’t possibly have any
sympathy. I’ll stick to this greasy old
one I’ve got on —it understands me.”
THE POSSUM
The possum {as you know )
has a peculiar habit
of using his tail
to toss him-
self {with much
clapping of leaves )
from branch
to branch.
like the metaphorical man-on-the-trapeze,
with the greatest of greatest of ease,
is the possum.
People {on the other hand)
live in hutches
like the eunuch rabbits
and, losing
the use of their tails,
never know, never
know the applauding
leaves, the breathless
agitation of the branches.
Like a circus of performing fleas,
with mechanic unthinking ease
people live in their houses,
and imagine they're living.
N.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.
THE STEP-DAUGHTER
She went to the well for water,
More beautiful than morning,
Than sweet, clear, running water
And humble as the day.
She fetched for her sister
And carried for her mother.
And the flame on the hearthstone
Spoke to her, “Stay.”
Her tread was light as snowfall.
Her hair as black as ebony,
Her mouth as red as roses
That burn away at noon.
And still when she tarried
As she fetched and carried
The flame on the hearthstone
Said to her, “Soon.”
Her step-sister married
Her step-mother left her,
The years slipped in silence
Like leaves from the bough.
In the guise of a huntsman
'Death parted the thicket
And the flame on the hearthstone
Cried to her, “Now.”
n.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


n
N
li
ss
*
Sure Starts
mwm%:
£xibe
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
8X1.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Bound Norfolk Island, berth on arrival
the Administrator’s chair. Brigadier
C. H. B. Norman commanded a famous
Westralian battalion of the 9th Division.
He joined it on forming, added another
to his lieutenant’s pips, and was in Tobruk
with an anti-tank crowd when a nice
bit of work won him M.C. As a
major he rejoined his old battalion at
Alamein shortly after the grim Ruin
Ridge fight. Before the unit left Aus-
tralia for New Guinea in 1943, Norman
became C.O. His mob’s crossing of the
turbulent Busu River under punishing fire
is history, and Norman added D.S.O. A
son of the soil in happier days, he was
educated at Perth Hale School (where
his foot-running prowess is still remem-
bered) and Hawkesbury Agricultural
College. Forty-eight.
Dudley Bruce Ross, here dourly inter-
preted by Coventry, is S. Australia’s
newest Supreme Court judge. Scion of an
ancient line of S. Australian legal men —
his great-grandfather was the State’s first
Police Commissioner ; his grandfather a
stipendiary magistrate —he took silk in
1945. Called to the Bar in 1914, he took
a brief in the case World v. Wilhelm
shortly afterwards, and was a sergeant in
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
France. Hard work on return brought
him a partnership in a leading Adelaide
legal firm, and, in the late 1940’5, the
presidency of the S.A. Law Society and
vice-presidency of the Law Council of
Australia, He has worked particularly
hard for the C. of E. Boys’ Home, over
which he has presided for the past seven
years.
“Fitz”: Commander Geoffrey Ingleton, whose
True Patriots All was reviewed in last week’s
Bulletin, is a native of Bairnsdale (Vic.). Now
42, he went through the Jervis Bay Naval
College, and served in R.A.N. and R.N. ships
for nine years. At the beginning of War II
he was with the hydrographic service, when
supplies of charts from England ceased and the
R.A.N. instituted its own charting policy.
Ingleton had a good deal to do with the
implementing of this policy, and told some of
the story in his book Charting a Continent. He
is also an etcher and ship-model maker; his
models of the Supply and Sirius, done for the
Sesquicentenary celebrations, are preserved in
the Sydney Technological Museum. Complete
sets of his etchings of early ships and historic
buildings are held by the National Library,
Canberra, the Mitchell Library, Sydney, and
the National Maritime Museum, Greenwich
(Eng.). Ingleton’s collection of books on
nautical research is probably the best in Aus-
tralia, and he is recognised as an authority on
early maritime affairs. Editor Alec Chisholm
commissioned him to write an 11,000-word
article on the subject of Australiana for the
forthcoming Australian Encyclopedia. True
Patriots All is solely Ingleton’s design, and
contains, besides reproductions of contemporary
illustrations, many decorations of his own.
Among many other books he has illustrated is
the magnificent private edition of Robert D.
Fitz Gerald’s Heemskirck Shoals, which was sold
to subscribers at £35 per copy.
With two years’ experience of archi-
tecturing architects’ interests as president
of the Royal Victorian Institute of the
profession, Robert Demaine goes up to
the presidency of the Federal body. Old
Digger of the Sixth Battalion, he has
specialised in hospitals and other insti-
tutional buildings ; new hospitals going
up in towns along the Latrobe Valley of
Victoria have the Demaine stamps on
their plans.
“Ping”: Lieutenant-Commander lan
Purvis (the quietly-spoken officer who
outlined, on the A.B.C. the other night,
some of the deadly anti-submarine de-
vices in which the R.A.N. is being
trained) has been pinging for subs, since
1941, when he did his course in the art
in the U.K. At that stage the Mother
Navy had had some practical experience
in the game. Though he has had cruiser-
time —being in the Sydney when she
collared the Italian Colleoni- —Purvis has
been in sub.-hunters for most of the time
since, and got his first command, frigate
Hawkesbury, in 1945. In 1949 he re-
verted to big ships, but in an underwater
capacity—Fleet Torpedo and Anti-sub-
marine Officer aboard carrier Sydney.
Now he has the highly important job of
training asdic-men at RushcUtter Bay
A/S School.
“The Boorie”: “Cardie” and “M.HE.”
are both correct in their assessment of
Paddy Cahill’s buffalo-shooting. My
authority? Paddy Cahill himself, no less.
He is still going strong, silver-haired,
lithe, and doing his eight hours a day,
truckdriving on the construction of the
new Darwin wharf. His cheerful,
mahogany-hued face split in a wide grin
when I showed him their respective pars.
He confirmed the details. “Gripes!” he
said of “Cardie.” “I can’t place this
feller, but his memory’s all right. Twenty-
two buffaloes it wasI—and 1 —and all bulls, of
course!” Paddy is still tough. Recently
he was back at work, battling along on
a foot which, five days previously, he
had placed fair and square on a stone-
fish.
Dr. Frank Louaf, Q.C., was admitted
to the Victorian Bar the other day. He
got his Doctorate of Laws for a thesis
on the executive powers of the Common-
wealth, is generally to be seen in print
or on a platform when human rights and
liberties are threatened, and in his less
formidable moments has committed verse
for The Bulletin.
“M.”: One gathers that Monsarrat’s
The Cruel Sea has sold a copy or two.
The other day was published in London
the second volume of a three-volume
work which, at 95,000 copies so far sold,
must be nudging the Atlantic book’s
figures. Titled the Manual of Seamanship
(alias the Pusser’s Bible), it replaces those
two volumes which for over 40 years
have instructed officers and men of the
Commonwealth Navies in such diverse
seamanlike things as how tb lay-out a
5-ton bower anchor and protect guard-
rails from rust. The book has had a
wide circulation outside the Navy. Its
anonymous author is Commander A. M.
Rundle, D.S.C., helped editorially by
Commander G. A. B. Hills, 0.8. E., both
R.N. Addresses of these gentlemen will
not be supplied to harassed ordinary-
seamen.
As fine a collection of local executants
as any city could put forward got together
at the Assembly Hall in Melbourne to
do honor to the lifework of one of Mel-
bourne’s most distinguished sons, veteran
composer Alfred Hill. The programme
was almost entirely devoted to composi-
tions based on Maori songs and legend,
some of which are world-famous.
A man of the (Bristol) Bulldog breed
goes north to command 91 Wing of
Meteors and transports in Korea in the
husky shape of Wing-Cohimander D. R.
Chapman. He first piloted a Bulldog, on
meteorological work, back in 1935, and
the following year, in a Hawker Demon,
won the Tasmanian Aerial Derby. Adolf
gave him the chance of adding to the list
of planes-piloted in his log-book for
two years Chapman commanded
Three Squadron in the Western
Desert, and, later, 451 Squadron
of Hurricanes. Spits and Lancasters were
added while on a training course in the
Old Dart.
John Gordon McKenzie learned the
three R’s at Kogarah School (N.S.W.),
and at that school commenced his teach-
ing career, which led to a mastership at
Fort-street, a headmastership at Coota-
mundra, and, in 1927, an inspectorship.
Before becoming Director-General of
Education in 1940, he had been an in-
spector of secondary schools. He was
still instructing in War I, this time in
the sterner lessons the 26th Battalion had
to learn. After the war he studied at
the Sorbonne, and got in touch with
social and economic problems at the
headquarters of the Co-operative Move-
ment in Manchester (Eng.). He had no
children ; education was his life. So much
so that only in the last year or so school-
mates managed to get him away long
enough to teach him bowls. With educa-
tional interests ranging far outside the
class-room, he did solid work in broad-
casting, particularly in teaching New Aus-
tralians the language. Not long before
he died a representative group of N.As.
presented him with his most prized pos-
session—a leather-bound, beautifully
hand-tooled collection of illuminated
letters of appreciation. He died at his
desk, aged 64, after close on 50 years
of educating.
A quietly-spoken, though intense, short
man with the practised lecturer’s incisive-
ness in his voice, Dr. Harold Wyndham
was to have taken over the N.S.W.
Director-Generalship of Education next
month. The death of John Gordon Mc-
Kenzie altered the timetable. The new
man just missed, by a year, being taught
by McKenzie at Fort-street; went on to
Sydney University ; entered his present
department in 1925 ; taught teachers to
teach for a while ; then, on a Carnegie
Travel Grant, crossed to California, to
gain a Doctorate of Education and plenty
of novel ideas on the score of helping
nippers with post-school careers. Many
demobilised R.A.A.F. men will remember
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
the “wingless wonder” (as the D.-G. calls
himself with his sudden grin) who set
them up in civil life again. He was then
flight-lieutenant in the R.A.A.F.’s rehabili-
tation section. In 1945 Wyndham was
to have attended the inaugural meeting
of Unesco in London, alternative
leader with Doctor Evatt. The Doc. was
held up with the Bretton Woods talks, so
Wyndham led the Australian delegation.
Belting tennis-balls is his out-of-school
relaxation.
T. J. Weedman, here presented, joined
the big Brisbane departmental store of
Allan and Stark 36 years back as a
purchase-ledger operator. Now he
operates behind a door marked general-
manager. Born at Mount Morgan, he
worked in the gold city’s Mine Office, tried
his hand in the 'N.S.W. Department of
Public Works, then shifted back to Bris-
bane. Though, on the practising side, he
now confines his sport to golf, a younger-
day interest is maintained with his
DEPARTMENT STORE
patronage of the Eighteen Footers’ Sail-
ing Club and presidency of the Amateur
Boxing and Wrestling Union.
Louis McCubbin’s Falstaffian presence
will be missed at Australian art-gather-
ings. Described once by a Bulletin
scribe as one of the best-humored men
alive, Louis was the son of Frederick
McCubbin, a distinguished Victorian
painter and brother of Alexander, a
pioneer publisher of art-books. Director
of Adelaide’s National Gallery for 13
years from 1936, Louis learned his craft
at the Melbourne Gallery School, and
left for War 1 with the 10th Field Ambu-
lance. Later appointed an official war-
artist, he made over 200 sketches and
studies in oil, water-color and pencil in
France and Egypt. In 1920 the Com-
monwealth Government commissioned
him to paint battle-pictures and murals
and design the models which form one
of the chief features of the Australian
War Museum in Canberra. The job took
him nine years. Just before shifting to
Adelaide he managed Melbourne’s cen-
tenary floral-fete, and in War II directed
camouflage-work in S. Australia. R e P‘
resented in several Australian galleries
and a member of the Commonwealth Art
Advisory Board, he was 62 at the end.
Into the Silence:
Frank Fraser, at Ingham, north-Queensland,
head of the firm which, through its commei >
agricultural and mining interests was a co -
siderable force behind the development
the Herbert River district.
interested in pasture-improvement and thoroug-
bred studs, he recently imported Zebu ea
to test his pasture-development, and, in the s
line, had, among other well-known names,
Mark as his leading sire. ,
In Perth, at 68, Thomas Dewer Mackie, attei
a lifelong interest in yachting and rowmB-
- of the Royal Perth and Freshwate
yacht clubs he sailed many yachts and ta g
many an aspirant yachtsman the ropes,
rowed in the State eight in 1908 Ashore, a
leading member of the Perth St. An
Society, president of the W.A. Scottish b _
and founder and president of the Peith fe
land Pipe Band. .
In Sydney, Ted Smith, portrait-painter a
art-instructor at the Sydney Technical L ‘
Starting as an apprentice to a decorating- •
he had as one of his first jobs decorat 8
interior of the yacht of Lord Brassey,
Governor of Victoria. Graduating P
traiture, Smith was commissioned by tne '
Church to paint most of its high dig
among them Cardinal Gilroy, whose
portrait now hangs in the Cardinal s
Sydney. At Sydney Tech, one of
pupils was Jimmy Bancks.
At Palmerston North (N.Z.), at S p uj atu a
Holmes Miller, a sheepfarmer m iTj ohn 0 hn
district. He was a son of Sn pcislative
Miller, an old-time Speaker of the Leg l » of
Council and one of the original . . tut i on
governors of the great educational t
Waitaki Boys’ High School, Oamaru.
H. J. Miller succeeds to the baronetcy.


BLUEGUM CHRISTMAS


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The Willenabrina sports
were in full swing when Curyo Charlie
drove his wagonette on to the ground.
Most of the crowd expected him, for
there was no publican’s booth at the
sports and Charlie had let it be known
that he would have a couple of kegs
aboard and the beer would be a bob a
nob. But the policeman from Jeparit
also expected the battler, and the moment
the wagonette appeared he grabbed the
lot. It so happened that the J.P. before
whom Curyo would appear was also
there, whereupon a conference was held
and it was agreed that confiscating the
doings would be a waste, since a pint or
two in each keg would do for evidence.
But the fair-minded Mallee men also
insisted on compensating Curyo, who
stood to lose his stock and £s fine.
This was solved by a tarpaulin-muster to
increase the cash prize for the Sheffield
Handicap from £5 to £l7 125., Curyo, was
accepted as a post entry, given 60yds.
start in the 130 and won comfortably.
Thus it was that Curyo became a pro-
fessional runner at the age of 53, justice
was duly served in the Jeparit court and
the Victorian liquor laws enforced. Ah,
there are good days in the Mallee story.
“Brick E.”: The Italian migrant is no
enemy of mine ; I’ve picked peas under
him, laid bricks alongside him and been
a tinpot boss over him, acted as his
guide, interpreter and general unraveller
of red-tape from tax-rebate forms to rail-
way timetables. And I’ve found him a
pretty decent sort of bloke in every way
—except one. The exception is that he
is a ruthless murderer of our best Old
Australians: the feathered ones. His is
not the wanton destruction of a trigger-
happy youth with a pea-rifle and a blood-
lust ; to him a bird has but one purpose
—to go into the pot for “munjarie.” Try
to tell him that it’s a wrong thing to
shoot the “orchello” and he looks bewil-
dered ; evidently shooting birds for
tucker is an old Italian© custom, and our
immigration authorities have not bothered
to stress that here in Australia birds are,
with a few exceptions, sacrosanct. A
birdlover once informed me very gravely:
“A handful of schoolboys who collect
birds’ eggs can reduce the avian popula-
tion in a locality by 50 per cent.” I
don’t dare think of the reduction caused
by a community of pot-hunters who shoot
everything in feathers—not even except-
ing the “ha-ha pigeon”!
* * * *
“Villefair”: An acquaintance trains and
races trotters, conducts a stud-farm and
runs a few head of sheep ; the jumbucks
being mainly a lucrative means of keep-
ing the place tidy. One morning a dead
ewe was found in the paddock ; it had
been shockingly mauled about the neck
and the windpipe was torn open. The
owner suspected a local Alsatian, and
when, several nights later, another sheep
was killed, he laid poison in the paddock.
A week passed, then another ewe was
bitten to death ; the baits remained un-
touched. The owner took to patrolling
the paddocks with a gun at odd times
during the night. On the fifth night he
caught the assassin in the act. Did he put
a couple of charges into him? He did
not. A king can do no wrong—even if
he is merely king of a trotting-track. The
stallion is still winning races.
$ $ t- *
“Irving”: When it came to making a
selection among job-seekers the old-time
droving boss always engaged, for prefer-
ence, the pipe-smoker. If a final selection
had to be made among several possibles
the bloke whose pipe-bowl was badly
charred around the edge had the inside
running, for it was taken as a gauge of
the job-seeker’s experience. The boss-
drover reckoned that the degree of burns
on the bowl told of the years over which
its owner had, in preference to risking the
rushing of the cattle at the sudden flare
of a match, stoked his pipe with a live
coal picked up from the campfire.
* * * *
“Warrabulla”: Long John and Robbie,
a pair of temperamentally - opposite
characters, were partners in a tank-sinking
show in the Gascoyne country. They
agreed, on only one thing—the necessity
for hard work. When they hit town the
“I still think We should've gone to a photographer!"
dour Robbie immersed himself in busi-
ness ; Long John immersed himself in
beer, made hay among the barmaids and
usually had to be loaded unconscious into
the truck for the journey back to camp.
Came the day when the profits had piled
up sufficiently for them to sell the camel-
team and take ship for Perth, there to
buy a tractor. On the voyage south, in
a fit of alcoholic remorse, the long bloke
handed all his money to Robbie, to dole
out as required. On the first morning
ashore Long John drew a fiver and
vanished; he was back at noon for
“Have you no pity for the animal?"
another; that evening he drew a tenner
and shot off in the direction of a street
renowned for the hospitality extended by
the ladies who lived there to visiting
nor’-westers. Meeting Robbie at the
lunch-table next day he suggested another
fiver would be more than welcome. It
was too much for the cautious one.
“Good God, man,” he exploded, “what
on earth do you find to spend money
on? I’ve been here as long as you have
and all I’ve bought have been two packets
of cigarettes and a bag of fruit!”
* * * $
“O. K. Lee”: If “Dicky” (B. 5/11/’52)
wandered ovqp to the south-west corner
of Queensland, he’d become used to the
sight of seagulls almost 600 miles from
the nearest seaboard. The great salt lakes
of Dynevor Downs abound in gulls,
crabs and other marine fauna, with
swans most in evidence. In the season
the foreshores of the lakes are lined with
eggs.
* * * *
“Mingari”; Apropos the smoke-signal
discussion, it may not be necessary to
have a prearranged code, but simply a
kind of group-understanding and a broad
general idea of the local situation. White
men in Australia’s nor’-west used smoke,
when I was there, when mustering horses,
for instance, or proceeding to a rendez-
vous, the procedure being simply to drop
a match into an isolated thicket of wattle
or wanyu, which promptly sent up
a dense black plume. A man with
a mob of horses too big to handle
would send up three or four
smokes ; the fact that they came up
well-spaced-out but in rapid suc-
cession was easily interpreted as
meaning that he was travelling fast;
their direction indicated whether he
was approaching the yard or going
away from it, in which case he
needed a hand. A couple of smokes
not too distant from each other,
but with a fair interval of time
between, obviously meant he was
jogging quietly along, and also gave
his direction of travel. Arriving at
a rendezvous a man would fire a
patch to let his mates know he was
there. If he couldn’t wait he’d
break down a branch or two and
leave them on the ground; you
knew from that he’d been there,
and his tracks showed which way
he’d gone—or there might be an
arrow scratched in the ground if it
was too hard for tracks to show
clearly. Most bushraen being fairly
good at deduction, the system worked
pretty well among a team of men who
had worked together for a year or so,
lived in close association and had a kind
of group-mind developed by facing iden-
tical problems.
* * * *
“Ceg”: We are said to be threatened
with a shortage of foodstuffs. This may
throw some light on the subject. The
scene was a crowded motor-bus, taking
holiday-makers back to the city from a
Victorian seaside resort. The passengers
were city types, at home on crowded
pavements and far removed from mother
earth. The bus passed a field in which a
man, his wife and three children were
digging and bagging spuds. There was
almost a riot when someone drew the
attention of his fellow-passengers to the
phenomenon. Children were held up to
the windows and cries of delight issued
from all sides. “Look! People digging
potatoes.” I’ll swear that most of epi
thought, till then, that spuds occurred in
tins.
* * *
“G.”: When a Navy-type anchor was
delivered instead of the old-fashioned pick
ordered by a trawler working out of Port
Stephens (N.S.W.), one of the boat’s two
owners held that the damned thing was
no good and should be returned; the
other maintained that the Navy-type had
held other boats, so they should give it a
go. He won. On the first occasion the
gadget was committed to the deep--
among the reefs and tides round
Broughton Island—there was great jubila-
tion from the sceptic in the wheelhouse
and much profanity from the protagonist
on the fore-deck when the boat, put astern
to dig the flukes in, kept on going. B ut
the believer’s faith was justified when they
hove-in to rig another; in the whole
anchorage, they had dropped in the one
spot where stood, on end, a large headless
steel drum into which the pick had fallen.
I know there should have been a stunn
20-pound snapper in the drum when they
got it to the surface, but I’m a fehow
who never goes beyond the truth.
THE GNOPIN TREE
The Swamp Mahogany
or Umbrageous Gnopin Tree
has falcate leaves.
Its Operculum is obliquely
acuminate.
The (late)
Reverend B. Scortischini grieves
that
(past Nerang Creek)
“we are unaware of its habitat.”
The (late) Mr. Maskell, the (even later) Sir
James Smith, speak
without restraint of the ovoid chamber
of its parasite Ceratahnatus.
They shock us
with a broad reference
to Charagia splendens.
In this tall tree’s bark tissues
Mr. W, W. Froggatt and Mr. F. A. Skuse
found the gall of a coccid. They relate that in
it, during a willywilly,
they discovered the lerp of a lerp-forming
Psyllce.
We know,
also
that the Swamp Mahogany
(or Umbrageous Gnopin Tree)
harb'ors the Double Drummer (Scott)
or Thopa saccata (Amyot).
But what
to complete
this history, the (late) Reverend T. Blackburn
said in his turn
about “the beautiful pale-green Xylonychus
eucalypti, its visitor,”
fearing a fuss
with the Censor
I cannot possibly
repeat.
N.s.w.
ETHEL ANDERSON.
LAMB AND EWE
Let the mist come and hide
In its womb the lambing ewe
For night sees with a thousand e^'' 9
And bitter is the tongue of the cro
Take the daylight from my
1 took the lamb by its forelegs,
It came out warm and yellow;
And the sunburst in the mist
Delivered the whole white farm,
Hill and crop and fallow.
Dawn sweats her golden dews
And the trees ring like a steep e.
This is the world the lamb knows.
But the cast ewe has bleeding eyes
And day is not there at all.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Buy him a
Gift he'd
Choose for
Himself..
1
dr/ 9j
7m/.
r
// y»
Smart to give, smart to own, “Nimrod” smoker’s
accessories are the practical and economical a s
t° die gift problem. Men choose Nimrod, exclusiv
to Andrew McGee, because they give dependable y
round satisfaction. Or select your gift from ala g
range of men’s smoking and shaving equipment.
ANDREW M C GEE
1 CASTLEREAGH ST.
70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
* "Nimrod"
Windproef Lighter
The lighter with 12 months’
guarantee. Sturdy quality.
Attractively styled in mirror
finish chrome, 44/-. Or rich
gold, 84/-.
/
MAIL ORDERS
-K "Nimrod" Drysmoker Pipes
Famous British-made, Briar incor-
porating the amazingly efficient
hygienic filter for cooler, cleaner
smoking. Nimrod Pipes are outstand-
ing gift value at 32/6, with 32 shapes
to choose from. Gold mounted, 45/-.
mmrwmrt
(Estab. 1878)
* "Nimrod" Pouch
A “personal” gift that is
always prized by a man. Long
wearing quality, solid crafts-
manship in every detail.
Choose from the finest Pig,
Seal or Crocodile Skin. 47/6
to £7/7/-.
&
Denicotea Filter Holder
HERE’S A NOVEL GIFT IDEA! Inexpensive
too! For only 13/6 it provides protection for
smokers against harmful vapours of nicotine,
pyridine, ammonia and resins—a health measure
recommended b'y doctors and dentists. Filter
capsules easily replaced. Ten supplied with holder.
Before use, Denicotea filter is pure
white. After use, filter turns black
as it absorbs harmful vapours.
fg
fg
“S4F”- wh th h nnoht Old
5.4. E. , When they brought Old
Tom into the ward from a station 50
miles or so on the other side of the
Flinders River (N.-Q.) he was in a pretty
bad way. He d been thrown from a
reanng horse trampied as he lay
on the ground ; quite a few ribs seemed
to be store in; and his age, as far as he
could recollect, was something over 70-
Sr? I‘hTs” s Th,°n
a few days he didn’t change much. Then,
one day—and this was long before sulpha
- penteilUn-Doe and the matron
began to look grave, and we m the ward
C r.? n wou * <^n 1 k> e l°ng now. a
night there were gasps and groans from
his bed; excursions and alarums among
the nurses To lean over him in the
nurses to lean over mm, in u
ight of a lantern and a state of grea
anxiety, came Doc and Matron—the
latter a very buxom blonde, fortyish, but
ill easy on the eye. After long con-
sideration they decided the hour was not
yet, but near, and tiptoed from the ward.
And, as the glimmer of the lantern faded,
a hoarse but richly appreciative voice
came from the whickers on the death-
bed “My gawd ” it rumbled “that
Woman's got an"el’l of a fITISS on 'er.
ain’t she*?” He lived Takes a lot to
kil thaf’kindof bushman
nd of bush
« * * *
c ..
From Sergeant V. M. Barlow, Police
station, Birdsville (Q.): —
Thank you very much for the copy of The
Ri J rH LE n! N .containing your item on “Films for
it was'a^ery 1 of 1 these C parts.
Unfortunately I have not yet heard from any
pders of the article who may have had films
only 20d b a vl no i Biven f t^ P w? P nubfished
iSWSf SiSgf rf “eSSSS
ffl®laawe?k, andlhe XTtowo was present
actu P nt oje f t? f r n nd e 3 u i pr^- n nt V t fh Ve m*iS
{mfZZ-'X
be Picture and the qualify of the sound coming
S»ch a small projector. . „
. j . have another show this Saturday night,
and u S ee ms that people from Glengyle, 100
mfies to the north; Durrie, 70 miles to the
Clifton Hills (on the Birdsville Track)
ridSJS a a ,rap“eadng H or?^ r hori z ok W a r i.“
“Of course , it's hotter in July."
an inch of rain will make it impossible for our
visiting friends to be with us at the weekend.
Freights on films are going to be a headache,
and it is going to take a lot of work to keep
up the finance to pay for same. The women
are getting a refreshment-bar together, and will
serve eats and teas during the interval, which
we hope will net us enough to pay the freights.
It is just another instance of the penalties
inflicted on a person who lives so far away from
civilisation. It would be very nice if some
philanthropist would smile kindly upon us.
John Heyer and Shell film-unit [now brack in
Sydney] did some heavy work around Birdsville
for about eight days, and, with just about the
entire population of the town in the film, we
were quite a disorganised community for the
time being. They were all looking rather tired
when they left here, and I don’t think they will
be sorry to have the job completed.
* * * *
“Kanimbla”: Treasure - ships (B.
26/11/ ’52)? Naturalist Grant-Watson
mentioned in one of his books that when
a young man he 1 spent some time in the
Busselton (W.A.) district, and became
friendly with the man then in charge of
the caves there, who told him he thought
he had discovered an old Dutch ship in
a swamp close to the beach. He took
Grant-Watson to the spot. They
clambered over the vessel, which was
deeply embedded, and evidently had been
there a long time. The capital needed for
salvage operations was beyond the
resources of the discoverer, nor could his
companion provide it. Shortly after-
wards Grant-Watson went to England.
He never learnt whether his acquaintance
had ever been able to carry out an investi-
gation of the wreck. Is anything further
known of this alleged find?
* * * *
“R.L.W.”: Unlike most station-hands,
Lofty did not believe in letting his pay
accumulate, for he had once lost six
months’ pay when the cocky he worked
for went broke. I knew him as a boun-
dary-rider on a Queensland property.
Every Sunday he would ride into the
homestead to collect his cheque. His dog
Mac always accompanied him, carrying
in his mouth a blackened billy with two
mugs attached —one each. When one
Sunday Lofty failed to turn up the boss
tried to ring him. Getting no answer,
he drove out to the hut to investigate.
Lofty was in his bunk —dead! Mac sat
mournfully beside him, holding the billy-
can in mute appeal. Lofty had never
banked his money. They found the
cheques, totalling over £lOO, inside his
hat-band.
* * * *
“C. Towers”: The net came in over
the trawler’s side, bringing the usual
assortment of fish, small sharks and
stingrays—among the latter a dark-
greenish fellow about 15in. across with
a stumpy, square-tipped tail. Armed with
short-handled steel-tipped picks we
started throwing the “rubbish” over the
side, and the city bloke, out for the first
time, hopped in in great style. I don’t
know how many volts he got from that
greenish, stumpy-tailed electric-ray, but
the wet pick-handle, wet hands and bare
feet on a wet deck made sure he copped
the lot. The pick went flying across the
deck, he turned on some very fancy
capering and made a number of very
pungent remarks about the sea and its
mysteries. The whole arm and one side
of his head were numb for some hours
afterwards, and for the rest of the day
he was deeply suspicious of anything that
wasn’t obviously a fish. Well, we argued
for hours as to how the ray generates his
electricity, where he stores it and why he
didn’t lose it when he was squashed up in
the net with the rest of the catch —you
can get just as big a jolt by merely touch-
ing his hide, remember —but nobody
seemed to have the answer. What’s the
accepted theory, if any?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow loved
to get hold of a new word and play
round with it, so when the schoolmaster
at Trundle, having heard something of
our travels, described us as a “fugacious
pair,” Mat wanted to know about it. A
few days later we were down on the
Forbes-Stockinbingal line, where we
jumped the mixed train on its way south.
At Quandialla a porter put his head over
the truck side, spotted us and demanded,
“Hey, whadda y’ think y’ doin’?” Mat
eyed him. “Pull y’r head in, mate,” he
said. “Can’t y’ see we’re fugaciating.”
The porter must have thought it was
something official, for we rode on, un-
troubled.
HOBART TOWN, VAN DIEMEN’S
LAND (JUNE 11, 1837)
(Sir John Franklin, Governor of V.D.L., 1834-
K nedshed on June 11, 1847, in attempting the
' F North-West Passage.]
Mike Howe’s head with frozen frown
Is on display in Hobart Town.
By Wapping Stairs the alley whale-oils blaze;
The tap-room skittle-grounds are stews of din
Where tripeman, shepherd, fence and whitesmith
daze
Pock-pitted doxies with the Sky Blue gin.
Now, knuckle-bashers soak chapped fists in
brine;
The cockpit curs lick bloody-feathered paws ;
The chandler, sinking Bengal Rum like wine,
Brags at the Cornstalks and the Johnny Raws.
The gibbet chandeliers sag down —
Glass-frosted thieves of Hobart Town.
On night-tubs, water-butts and cobbled mud
Ice knits its mica-spiked and bitter wheels ;
By the Jew’s slop-shop pot-boy barks out blood;
The chill-struck tollgate-keeper dreams hot eels.
Through Russia tweed and kerseymere and
smock
And red shell jackets and Valencia vests
Cold, like a watchman’s cutlass, drives its
shock;
The apple-woman shawls her stony breasts.
In Geneva-stinking gown
Venus paces Hobart Town.
By his last lucifer the forger’s fooled,
His jackal stumbles cursing in the mire.
Governor Franklin shuts his Birds by Gould,
Says, “Far too hot!” and leaves the cedar fire.
Return, and ring for extra logs, Sir John ;
Refill the Monteith with a burning brew:
The final decade left ticks freezing on
And North-West icebergs inch upon your view.
Watchman Death —eternal clown —
Crows the hour through Hobart Town.
TASMANIA.
HAL PORTER.
Vanished Pomps of Yesteryear
Early in 1921 Charleville (Q.) was filled
with revelry by night and day for about
three days on end.
First there was a three-day horse-sale,
a yarding of hundreds of horses which
brought stockmen and drovers and
station-owners from over 100 miles
around. They filled the town and the
pubs and themselves.
The Wild Man —a young Californian
who came in from the bush—paraded
the streets barefooted (there wasn’t a
boot in town to fit those feet), his face
hidden in a massive beard, hair rippling
over his shoulders. He wore a belt
garnished with a huge knife and a hatchet,
and a pack of great dogs trailed behind
him.
Texas Jack was there, a genuine
Tejano with a wide hat and a goatee
beard, a calfskin waistcoat and Texas
saddle complete with lasso. He and the
Wild Man went on the beer together
until they ran out of money. Then they
gave roping exhibitions in the side-streets,
with the Wild Man, bellowing and kick-
ing, playing the role of the steer; they
took the hat round after every show and
double-banked on the pony to Dalton’s
pub to drink the proceeds.
There was a permanent dust-cloud
over the saleyards, from the midst of
which for hours on end came the chant
“Howmuch’mlbidferthegrey,” or the bay,
or whatever it was.
There was another cloud of dust filling
the street to the post-office, trailing out
behind the last of the old Cobb and Co.
style of coaches, swaying on leather
springs, the four leaders at the canter
and the four wheelers at the trot; it ran
to Adavale, 120 miles away. It was a
point of honor with the driver to light
his pipe with one hand and drive with
the other so long as he was in the street,
and drunks and dogs and goats went
flying from before him.
On the final night two giants slugged it
out over 20 rounds in a ring in the open-
air picture-show for the heavyweight
championship of the south-west. They
fell out of the ring in holts three times,
and at the finish the loser couldn’t see
and the victor could just about stand up
to hit him. Those at the back climbed
on the fence for a better view and gave
a running commentary over the top to
those outside who couldn’t afford to come
in, until half-way through, when some-
body tore off a sheet of iron and they all
came in for nothing.
That night some wag let all the horses
out of the saleyards; they promptly
departed for their homes, and all the
stockmen got lucrative jobs rounding
them up and drafting them out again,
Which everybody but the owners thought
a wonderful bit of humor.
Next day half the town lined the
gravelled sidewalks to see the bruisers
(each well marked), escorted by their
managers, advance towards each other
down the main street. They met in front
of Harry Corones’s pub, shook hands to
a mighty cheer and went into the bar
together for a couple of pots —as did
90 per cent, of the audience.
Can they still turn it on like that in
the outback towns, I wonder?
LEMUEL G.


W‘
W
if
4 s
V 2
Ihey steered "
by the stars...
Early mariners voyaged far into the wide expanse
of sea.
But they did not steer a haphazard course. They
were guided in their journeys by the immutable
stars.
Wise people of to-day never steer a
haphazard course. They follow a care-
fully worked out plan, steering a
straight course for security.
Let The National Mutual work out an assurance
plan for you —safeguarding the financial future
of both you and your dependants.
Write or ring BL1271: an experienced officer
will call.
tm NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION ($f A/SIA LTD,
ESTABLISHED 1809 (inc. m vicj
350 GEORGE’ STREET. SYDNEY.
V '■ ft
Purely mutual—all profits divided amongst policyholders.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout AustraM
aovaa
iIBVW
KwrrniSP
ovc
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
IND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NE
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOP
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WHARF
COUNTER CHEC|C BOOK
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT B 1^ DER cHA rTS
RECORDING GRAPHS A®°
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER A
electric usages
“national” ROTARY DUFUCA
'protecta” SELF-REGISTER oR
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN
more COLOURS nT
PURE BRITISH PARCHM®
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTL
RUBBER STAMPS meNT
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EO g
HIGH GRADE CATAL°GU
illuminated address
Telegrams and CaWj
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Better Trade Figures
Better export prices for wool,
meat and some other exports
more than offset the drop in
metals during the five months to
November 30, and, with im-
ports cut severely by the restric-
tions that came into force early
this year, Australia had a
favorable trade balance of £ll2
million for the period. Of
this, £49.5 million came from
November trading. In the
corresponding five months of
the 1951-52 financial year there
was an import surplus of £197,6
million.
It has already been forecast
that there will be some modifi-
cation of the import restrictions
early in 1953. On present trad-
ing figures that seems to be quite
a reasonable expectation. At
the same time importers of
luxury goods may have little to
hope for in the way of relaxa-
tions.
It should be remembered that
when the restrictions were
clamped on at the beginning of
1952 warehouses were full of
stock, with huge shipments still
arriving. This was mostly
essential stock, too. We have
been , carrying on comfortably
with a full supply of cotton-
goods, hardware and most other
essentials during the past nine
months, notwithstanding the
curbing of further imports.
When these things have to be
imported once again on the
basis of current demand there
is likely to be a heavier call than
at present on our London funds.
Nevertheless, the improve-
ment in our overseas trade is a
very welcome change, and it is
another indication that the
Federal Government’s economic
policy is working out. With
the improved overseas trading
position can be bracketed the
much increased output of coal,
the swifter turn-round of ship-
ping and the improvement in
man-hour output in many indus-
tries. As already mentioned in
these pages, in one known case
better employee output has en-
abled a Sydney firm to absorb
all rises in the basic wage since
November, 1951, without any
increase in selling-prices to the
public or any diminution in its
margin of profit.
Stockpiling Coal
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s proposal to stockpile coal
that cannot at present be sold
deserves the most earnest con-
sideration. Whilst there should
be no attempt made to keep in
business those opencut collieries
the output of which will always
be inferior, every effort should
be exerted to keep going col-
lieries, opencut or otherwise,
which produce coal that has a
regular market.
In its stockpiling “an invest-
ment of more than £4 million”
is mentioned by the Common-
wealth Government. Not only
is it proposed to stockpile coal;
it is also intended to encourage
consumers to store coal, Gov-
ernment finance being made
available for the purpose. Ob-
viously the best way to stock-
pile coal is to allow the con-
sumer who has storage facilities
to put it into his own bins.
Some coal—more especially
shaley opencut coal —tends to
deteriorate when left in the
open “at grass.”
One of the great misfortunes
of the N. S. Wales coal in-
dustry is that the Cahill Govern-
ment is a major influence in the
Joint Coal Board and in the
conduct of mining generally in
the State. It is an irresponsible
Ministry, and is interested only
in making political capital out
of any development, good or
bad, that might occur. Its own
mining costs in the Lithgow
State Coalmine are tragic, and
“Better keep a sharp lookout for th' beach-inspector.”
are representative of its approach
to almost everything in the
industry.
The Federal Government is to
be congratulated on exploring
the possibilities of stockpiling
coal. Provided the coal does
not deteriorate excessively, it is
hard to think of anything that
would justify some credit-exten-
sion more than the establish-
ment of large coal reserves. Coal
is still the key to our fuel and
power problems, and, provided
this country really starts work-
ing again, we shall be needing
every ton of burnable coal that
can be produced.
Imperial Preference
If hotheads and sectional in-
terests had their way in tariff
policy New Zealand would be
taking off its coat and putting
on its gloves to Uncle Sam, and
would plunge deeper into eco-
nomic nationalism, under the
thin disguise of Imperial prefer-
ence. They’d denounce G.A.T.T.
—the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade —as nothing
more nor less than a weapon of
dollar-aggression.
This is a rash, bold, foolish
or provocative attitude, accord-
ing to the way one views it, and
many Maorilanders have been
misled by the people with the
big voices who have been making
such a noise. Most of the hot-
heads are found in the ranks of
the manufacturers’ federation ;
but it would be unfair to indus-
trialists in the little country to
suggest that they share the
opinions of those less respons-
ible. Saner ones who advocate
moderation and co-operation
are less vocal, but perhaps more
numerous if it came to a show-
down.
One of the best exponents of
their view is Leonard N. Ross,
president of the Auckland
Chamber of Commerce. Says
Ross: “It appears that
G.A.T.T. was born at an unfor-
tunate time, but we must not
rashly or blindly leap to the con-
clusion that it should be aban-
doned. There is nothing incom-
patible in striving to weld the
Commonwealth into a closer
economic union while working
for trade-expansion with all
countries.
“On racial and economic
grounds there are as many rea-
sons for wanting to develop
Commonwealth partnership as
there are for maintaining the 48
States of the American union in
a single tariff, trade and cur-
rency system. This, however,
should not lead us into aggres-
sive action which could precipi-
tate a tariff war. We don’t have
to choose between G.A.T.T. and
Imperial preference today, be-
cause neither is of vital import-
ance while controls of one kind
and another prevent tariff
changes from having much bear-
ing on the flow of trade. Any
tariff changes we plan now will
not be put to the full test until
the more distant future, and in
the meanwhile the Common-
wealth should make the most of
the opportunity to convert
G.A.T.T. into an acceptable
means for bargaining in the
field of trade. It would be time
enough to consider a drastic
move if we failed in our efforts
to make G.A.T.T. work.”
This statement puts the issues
in a nutshell, and has helped
M.L. businessmen, who in the
past have found G.A.T.T, and
its technicalities too much for
them, to understand what all
the fuss is about.
* •
Beef Prices
Some beef-cattle men in Aus-
tralia claim that not enough is
known generally of the meat
contract with Great Britain
and that ignorance of the terms
of the contract enables those in
the know to pick up cattle in the
saleyards at far below their real
export value, allowing for all
handling charges.
That as it may be, it is true
that the recent announcement by
Minister McEwen about the rise
in the contract-price of meat
sold to Britain left most Aus-
tralian producers in the dark as
to what the increased prices
amounted to in shillings and
pence. Here are some of the
prices, f.o.b. Australian ports, in
Australian currency, for frozen
quarter-beef, bone-in:
Ox and Heifer : Ist quality hinds,
18.37 d. a pound; 2nd quality, 16.12 d.
Ist crops, 14.7 d.; 2nd, 13.5 d. Ist
fores, 14.3 d.
Cow: Ist quality hinds, 14.61 d.;
2nds, 14.14 d. Ist crops, 12.5 d.; 2nds,
12.03 d. Ist fores, 12.11 d.; 2nds,
11.64.
These British contract prices, it
needs emphasising, are after
allowing for the recent increase.
R. B. Davies Rights
Some of the rights to R. B.
Davies Industries shares have
come on to the market at 3s. 6d.
each, representing 235. 6d. fully-
paid. Last year’s div. was 8 p.c.
If it is maintained, yield at the
current price would be slightly
over 6.8 p.c.
The issue will close on De-
cember 17, when half the 20s.
payable to the company must be
lodged, with the balance payable
on May 30, 1953. A total of
130,341 shares are being issued,
which will carry paid capital up
to £651,708.
The new money is required to
finance the co.’s 49 p.c. interest
in Yorkshire Fittings (Australia)
Pty., Ltd., which is to make
capillary copper and brass fit-
tings for the plumbing trades.
These fittings enable a saying of
up to 50 p.c. in the raw-material
cost of copper piping, and are
more easily fitted than a
threaded joint. The new joint
enterprise should be a valuable
adjunct to the R. B. Davies
business, which now is the
largest mass - producer of
builders’ hardware in the Com-
monwealth.
The concern is _ efficiently
managed, and the rights look
attractive.


Divorce Notice
IN TH E SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
ROBERT GRIEVES WALTON for-
eriy of Hew’s Parade Belrose near Syd-
KrfCAM NOTICE that EMILY OLIVE
™ has filed a Petition for Divorce
'Ao. 3829 of 1952) on the ground bf de-
• TOon without just cause or excuse for
SL years and upwards If you wish to
tl you may enter an appearance at
Registry Supreme Court King
an*ri? d ®y b y the 13th day of Febru-
f; and obtain a copy of the Peti-
Soll-r thout char g e from J. J. KIELY.
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. bOUGHAN. Registrar.
Company Meeting
THE ECONOMIC NEEDS OF AUSTRALIA
Bank Ptesident’s Views
Australia is poised uncertainly between deflation and renewed
inflation, said Mr. Martin Mcllrath, the President of the Bank of
New South Wales, in discussing economic and business trends at
the recent annual meeting of the Bank. The post-war boom had
come to an end in the past twelve months, but the volume of unem-
ployment did not suggest that a severe recession had occurred or
was around the corner.
He went on to say that in some industrial sectors, which
had previously reduced operations, renewed demand had
already contributed to a revival of business confidence.
The final outcome, however, would depend to a very great
extent on the nation’s ability to stabilize costs.
“Now that competitive conditions are returning,” he
said, “high cost factors and standards of efficiency lower
than they need be can no longer be disguised, and, unless
an effective solution to these question? is found, industry
must both operate below capacity and suffer a heavy degree
of unemployment. ’ ’
The Need to Encourage
Investment
Mr. Mcllrath went on to
say that, since a primary
aim of national economic
policy was the utilisation of
natural resources, a principal
task for the Government
should be to encourage con-
ditions favourable to the
accumulation of savings for
capital investment. Such
conditions did not exist at
present. Some very tentative
steps had been taken in the
budget to lessen the heavy
burden of taxation, but its
level was still highly deter-
rent to the new investment
upon which future employ-
ment opportunities depended.
While productive public
works must play ah im-
portant part in Australian
development, too little atten-
tion was being paid to the
role of private investment.
In the clamour for more
public spending to meet any
threat of business recession,
it was all too often forgotten
that as plans of private in-
dustry to expand proceeded
they would add a highly
stimulating leaven to the
economic system.
If stimulus was required
to overcome business un-
certainty, much could be
done by a revelation of the
Government’s clear intention
to encourage individual en-
terprise, to curtail its own
unessential activities, and to
avoid the creation of
abundant easy money by
credit expansion, which only
concealed and aggravated
the fundamental problem of
costs.
The Banking Structure
Turning to banking, the
President said that the eas-
ing or abandonment of a
number of rigid controls was
a welcome restoration of res-
ponsibility to the trading
banks. The change in the
financial situation during the
year fully revealed the un-
realistic nature of existing
banking legislation. The
Government’s proposals
would afford some relief, but
it was to be regretted that
they did not fully rectify
the shortcomings of the pre-
sent system.
A separation of the central
banking functions from the
multiplicity of trading ac-
tivities of the Commonwealth
Bank was fundamental to an
efficient banking system. Over-
sea experience had shown
that a central bank’s duties
of regulating the volume of
credit did not mix with
those of competitive trading.
“We consider,” he con-
cluded, “that the central
bank should be separated
under its own board and
management from the Com-
monwealth Bank, and that
the latter as a trading in-
stitution should be placed on
the same basis of operation,
statutory or otherwise, as
the other banks.”
tO
to
LU
LL.
O
<
CQ
INCORPORATED
A5223A
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch; 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI 31 (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
The Radio audience—the nation over agree:
DAVEY
111
Australia's biggest
and brightest quiz show
“GIVE IT A GO”
on Monday nights at 8
presented by the makers of PERSIL
and produced by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service.
2GB • 3AW • 4BH * SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 2PK 2MW 2LT 2MG 2LF 3CV 4BU 4GY 6WB 6MD 7LA
and also heard over 38 other stations throughout Australia.
i
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
November is not, perhaps, the
happiest of months for a rene-
gade Yorkshireman to revisit
his home-town. Trains are slow.
Pennine mists seep with raw
cold as well as with gloom. And
the old-fashioned West Riding
house, with its draughts and coal
fires, is a reliable insulator of
heat’ and cold, both in excess. It
is also, as one un-Spartan
southern can forcibly testify, a
positive ’flu-trap. The advocates
for a national fuel policy might
well try out a pilot scheme in
those bleak, craggy valleys.
But it is heartening to notice
both confidence and optimism in
a district where, only lately,
spirits were low. The wool
trade has picked up again. Only
six months ago 22,000 textile-
workers were on short time.
Now order-books are filling up,
delivery-dates are having to be
extended and the labor shortage
has reappeared.
Merchants are characteristi-
cally phlegmatic and cautious in
their outlook. The slight im-
provement, they say, is entirely
due to “gathering up the slack”
in the home trade, where con-
sumption has increased substan-
tially as a result of stocks run-
ning out. Price-stability, which
they regard as a first considera-
tion of “good, steady trade,” is
still elusive. There has, as yet,
been no marked recovery of ex-
port markets, and, with the
present tight conditions prevail-
ing, little is expected as a matter
of course. Prospects depend
upon renewed pioneering and,
especially, upon the keeping-
down of costs.
Westward, on the Lancashire
side of the Pennines, the cotton
industry is rather less cheerful.
It is all very well, they say, for
Yorkshiremen to pat them-
selves on the back for their
foresight in reorganising their
staple industry on a smaller
scale and taking the long view
that their looms will never again
supply the greater part of the
world. But they point out that
wool, a good dollar-earner, is a
raw material that does not have
to be paid for in that same
currency. Not so cotton.
It would seem also that the
Government has recognised this
hard fact, for it has earmarked
four East Lancashire towns, all
°f them traditionally cotton-
weaving centres, as a develop-
ment area for new industries.
Political Pickle
Public reaction to the party
game of battledore-and-shuttle-
oock over nationalised iron and
steel and transport has been
singularly cold, not so much
apathetic as distasteful. Whether
nationalisation is a good or a
bad thing (and opinion inclines
toward the latter) is beside the
Point. What the British people
fear, and the industries con-
cerned dread, is an out-of-hand
tug-of-war between the two
parties over their debilitated
bodies.
Such a fight to the death too
plainly threatens not only the
unoffending industries (which
happen also to be vital ones)
but the very structure of demo-
cratic government. It suggests
two branches on an old and
respected family who are
squandering their inheritance
and wasting their energy over a
miserable feud. And the issues
are further complicated by the
complexities of the two major
industries, the ramifications of
which are hard to comprehend,
even to the expert.
A consensus of informed
opinion now credits the Govern-
ment with the good sense of put-
ting first things first, sinking its
pride and getting on with the
job. Granted that its early
interventions were marked more
by flurry and blunder than by
objective reasoning, the new
Transport Bill bears evidence of
deeper thought. The Govern-
ment also seems disposed to pay
heed to the severely critical
experts among its back benches.
At all events, threats and
counter-threats to reverse the
other’s actions were rather sub-
dued in the recent debate. Which
can even mean that some sense
of public responsibility may be
pulling at the Opposition’s
conscience.
Crisis for Culture
Economically, the outlook for
the arts in Great Britain is a
dismal one, according to the
seventh annual report of the
Arts Council. State patronage,
it is affirmed, has reached a
“point of no return.” The im-
plication is that the present
annual subsidy of £575,000 is
inadequate, even after pruning
down to “essentials” such as
Covent Garden (£150,000),
Sadler’s Wells (£60,000), the Old
Vic. (£26,500), grants to musical
organisations (£72,000), ex-
penses of exhibitions (£22,000),
administration (£85,000) and
departmental salaries (£47,500).
The report bemoans the pas-
sing of the private patron in
Britain, “where the redistribu-
tion of wealth has become an
axiom of government.” It de-
clares that the one condition for
survival of the arts in the
equalitarian State is “some form
of collective patronage.” Which
presumably hints at the Town
Council, since this grandiloquent
euphemism can mean only a
copper or two on the rates. The
argument is pursued with con-
siderable ingenuity and with
more verbal sleight-of-hand
e.g., “A curious psychological
element is involved in municipal
patronage. If a City Council
declares a ‘loss’ of £lO,OOO on
its municipal orchestra it dis-
torts the true nature of its func-
tion in making up the balance.
If it announced, instead, that
‘the civic contribution’ to the
orchestra was £lO,OOO it would
be putting patronage in its
proper perspective.”
For those who talk glibly
about national opera or theatre
there are some chastening facts
and figures. Grand opera, on
the Covent Garden scale, is
“about as portable as the Elgin
Marbles.” Every “house-full”
performance costs, on average,
£540 more than receipts.
The Old Vic. is generally
recognised as our virtual
national theatre, yet: “Empty
houses and high costs of produc-
tion have devoured all the Old
Vic.’s reserves, and much of the
Arts Council’s as well, and if
the shape of things is not trans-
formed this autumn the outlook
for the Old Vic. is serious
indeed.”
Despite good attendances,
most permanent symphony
orchestras are in Queer-street.
An increase in minimum rates of
pay can add as much as £BOOO
to the wage-bill in a single year.
And, as is graphically shown by
colored diagrams, every budget
leaves a gap “in the red” to be
covered by subsidy. It may be
from this source that the idea of
“collective patronage” has
originated, with the youngest of
our orchestras, the Yorkshire
Symphony, as t)ie model pupil.
Leeds bears the major cost, but
several other boroughs also en-
gage the orchestra at a fixed
nominal fee of £4OO a concert,
meeting their own losses. Some
50 extra concerts a year are thus
accounted for, and bring in
about £20,000. This reduces the
annual deficit borne by the
“parent” to a modest £30,000
or so.


THIS BOOKLET
ON BEQUEST
{XEr
Vtl°A
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UTBB
To help you and yours
Save worry about Wills
you know: when, how and why a Will
*** should be made or revised? —that there are
dangers in “home-made” Wills, and that you
should always consult your solicitor? —that
marriage usually revokes a Will?
This booklet explains in simple language important
facts about Wills that vitally affect your Estate
and the welfare of your dependants. It tells of
Executors’ responsibilities and how these may be
simplified . . . of Trusts and what they involve
... of how you can safeguard the security of your
affairs at a moderate cost.
Write, phone or call for your copy now, without
cost or obligation.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne: 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 188 S)
St.. Brisbane
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of A/asia, Ltd.
Divs.
, K s To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1946.. 622,191 11 11 330,000 115,669 998,197
1947.. 1,039,684 174 174 525,000 862,546 1,150,285
1948.. 826,329 15 15 450,000 259,507 1,267,107
1949. .1,168,585 25 25 750,000 418,585 1,685,692
1950. .1,399,841 25 25 750,000 649,841 2,835,533
1951. .1,677,535 35 351,050,000 627,535 2,963,068
1952. .2,112,476 45 45 1,350,000 762,476 3,725,544
* Excludes depreciation reserve, etc., £6,200,638.
Highly efficient and financially robust,
this big producer of zinc, sulphuric acid
and superphosphate, etc., is a vital con-
tributor to Australian and overseas in-
dustrial needs in both peace and war,
which means much so far as markets are
concerned. Still, with costs stubborn,
some recession from the recent high-level
of net earnings can be expected to follow
the decline in the overseas price of the
metal. But the jolt might be cushioned,
partly or substantially, by larger output,
which the co.’s big programme of develop-
ment and expansion will make possible.
The four focal points of this programme
—which is now well on the way to com-
pletion and is being financed out of past
and current savings—are; (1) Lift in
smelter capacity at Risdon (Tas.) to
100,000 tons zinc p.a.; (2) increased mine
and mill output at the co.’s own rich zinc-
lead deposits at Rosebery (Tas.); (3)
extension of plant for the recovery of
zinc from residues ; (4) erection of a large
new mill for production of sulphate
of ammonia.
The two principal factors responsible
for the leap of £444,941 in last term’s
record net earnings were the rise in over-
seas price for zinc and better outturn of
the metal and by-products, etc. The
£2,112,476 of profit claimed'was written
after allowing for depreciation, etc.
(£750,000, same as the previous year) and
taxation (£2,120,000, up £516,000). It
was equal to 70.4 p.c. on the £3,000,000
of capital (half of it 8 p.c. cumulative
participating prefs.) compared with 55.9,
46.6, 38.9 and 18.9 p.c. back to 1948. The
div, was lifted from an all-round 35 p.c.
to 45 p.c., making the average over the
last five years 29 p.c, as against an
average of 9.1 p.c. for the preceding
quinquennium.
The London price of zinc rose from an
average of £BB6 12s. 4d. per ton for the
year to June 30, 1950, to £Bl4B 13s. lid.
for the following year andTo £BlB3 14s.
3d. for the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts. There has since been a
steep fall in the figure, of which more
will be said presently. The Australian
price remained steady at £A6S per ton ;
it was lifted to £A9S per ton as from
Sept. 4, 1952.
During the year 202,720 tons (up
13,687 tons) zinc concentrates, contain-
ing 31 p.c. sulphur, were put through the
various roasters for 183,013 tons (up
14,630 tons) calcines. In the process
108,991 tons (up 5486 tons) sulphuric
acid was produced, equal to 17 p.c. of
Australia’s total production. The out-
put of superphosphate was 67,246 tons
(up 16,481 tons).
The smelter, which worked to about
only 84 p.c. capacity owing to power
restrictions, treated the calcines,*or most
of them, for an extra 5972 tons zinc,
and more by-products, except lead:
Cad-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, mium, Copper, Gold,
tons. oz.* tons. tons. tons, oz.*
1950.-83,897 318,070 2,255 221 156 1,337
1951- 274,207 1,807 211 115 1,261
1952- 291,014 1,774 210 141 1,479
* Includes residues from copper plant.
Of the zinc produced 48,674 tons was
sold locally and the balance mainly to
U.K. The co. is now obliged to sell up
to 60,000 tons p.a. to the local market
at the increased price already mentioned.
At the co.’s own mines at Rosebery
162,578 tons ore, assaying 18 p.c. zinc,
5.5 p.c. lead, 0.43 p.c. copper, 6.560 z.
silver and I.B7dwt. gold, were treated
for the following results:
Produced, Zinc, Lead, Copper, Silver, Gold,
tons, p.c. p.c. p.c. oz.* dwt.*
Zinc .. 46,287 55.0 2.5 0.28 2.8 0.8
Lead . . 9.569 15.7 58.8 0.83 29.3 3.6
Copper . 4,228 19.2 27.7 8.10 127.3 37.6
Residues.. 102,495 1.7. 0.8 0.11 1.8 0.8
* Per ton.
Ore reserves remain unchanged at
2.000. tons of average grade, and the
drill has disclosed extensions of the ore-
bodies.
The co.’s already strong financial posi-
tion further strengthened:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital, .. £3,000,000 £3.000,000 £3,000,000
Sundry creditors.. 1,310,545 1,844,946 2,525,722
Deposits .. .. 305 247 185
Tax reserve .. 927,999 1,686,827 1,986,657
Final div, •. 540,000 750,000 900,000
Mines and roads.. 579,559 587,257 595,191
Freeholds, etc. .. 617,876 670,313 760,011
Plant, etc. .. 5,903,684 6,519,116 7,124.460
Shares, etc. .. 830,869 921,199 752,029
Stocks and stores 1,636,340 1,890,794 2,902,403
Book debts . . 624,454 995,251 1,271,626
Cash, etc. .. 2,824,578 4,198,608 4.940,521
Preliminary costs 172,347 172,337 172,352
To carry an extra £1,011,609 of stocks,
add £276,370 to book-debts and £712,976
net to the book-value of fixed assets the
amount coming to outsiders was increased
by only £680,776.
The roasting section of the Risdon
plant is being extended to enable the co.
to treat the whole of its zinc-concentrate
requirements (about 210,000 tons p.a.),
and similar operations at four points on
the mainland are to be gradually dis-
continued. When the transfer is com-
plete, acid-production at Risdon will
approximate 120,000 tons p.a. The sul-
phate-of-ammonia plant is not expected
to get into commercial production until
the last half of 1954. Other additions and
extensions to plant should be complete
about the end of 1953, and production
should improve, provided enough current
is available.
The immediate imponderable is the
London price of zinc, which has come
down from £SI3O per ton for July to
£SIIO last week, and is expected to fall
further when free trading in the metal is
resumed on January 1, 1953. The British
official price, which has followed the
U.S. market, has long been above the
Continental level. The price-decline in
lead after it was freed is adding to the
present confusion in the zinc market.
The price of the co.’s ss. ord. stock-
units, which fell from 295. 6d. early in
1952 to 245, 6d. in May, stood at 28s. 6d.
last week, giving an immediate return of
7.9 p.c. on a 45 p.c. div. basis, or 6.1 p.c.
on a 35 p.c. distribution. The ss. prefs.
at 265. 9d. yield 8.4 p.c. on a 45 p.c. div.,
or 6.6 p.c. on a 35 p.c. basis. The prefs.
enjoy priority as to capital, participate in
new ord. share-issues, but do not share
in surplus assets.
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1948.. 295,362 17i p.c. = 175,000 120,362 745,813
To plant-replacement res., £43,532.. 702,281
To staff fund, £16,700 .. ■■ 685,581
1949.. 258,449. 121 p.c. = 125,000 133,449 819,030
To plant-replacement res., £46,000 .. 773,030
To staff fund, £25,000 .. . . 748,030
1950.. 299,002 12l p.c. = 125,000 174,002 922,032
To staff fund, £26,000 .. .. 896,032
Deferred tax. £1332 894,700
1951.. 313,251 121 p.c. = 200,000 113.251 1,007.951
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 987,951
Profit sale assets, £ll5B .. .. 989,109
Tax arrears, £B5O .. -. .. 988,259
1952.. 73,012 8 p.c. = 160,000 901,271
* After eliminating outside interests.
t Excluding replacement reserve, now £469,573.
Last term was a period of difficult tran-
sition to more balanced conditions of
supply and demand. The group hit
hardest in the process was the woollen
and worsted yarn-spinning and textile-
manufacturing mills. In this field the
Yarra Falls organisation is pre-eminent
in size, enterprise and efficiency. It con-
sists of the parent co., whose big mill at
Abbotsford (Vic.) is assisted by a branch
factory at Dandenong (Vic.), and two
subsidiaries. Globe Worsted Mills, which
is a concern of comparable size at Mar-
rickville (N.S.W.), and Byfas Pty., which
turns out dress goods, also at Abbotsford.
The organisation and mills have been kept
well abreast of post-war technical and
other developments in the trade, especi-
ally in connection with spinning and
weaving machinery, where the trend has
been toward automatic operation, with
increased operating and mechanical effi-
ciency and easier control and mainten-
ance. Not only is the co. thus technically
well-equipped to meet overseas competi-
tion in the local market, but it has also
developed an export trade.
Last term saw aggressive competition
in foreign markets, following the world-
wide slump in textiles, and the co.’s export
sales suffered. At home wholesalers and
retailers found themselves overstocked,
following a spate of imports. Because of
this, and the tightening of credit and
growth of consumer-resistance, some
traders were unable to take up their
commitment's, and deliveries from local
mills diminished to a trickle for a while.
Also there was some forced selling,
mostly at prices well below cost. All this
coincided with collapse of the price-boom
in the raw-wool market, where the Aus-
tralian average per bale fell from £179
7s. 9d. for 1950-51 to £9O ss. 7d. for
1951-52, while wage and all other operat-
ing costs continued to climb steeply.
The worst of the troubles more
marked in Sydney than in Melbourne —
occurred during the second half of the
term, when many of the co.’s machines
were either out of action or working part-
-time.
There was a sharp drop of £544,000 in
turnover of the group (£4,354,754). And
stocks, although cautiously valued at
the close of accounts in 1951, had to be
“substantially” written down to bring
them into line with market-values at
June 30 last. After doing this (amount
involved not disclosed), allowing £33,608
(down £7144) for depreciation, £62,400
(down £201,054) for taxation and sending
£11,428 (down £22,414) to plant-replace-
ment reserve, the drop in consolidated net
earnings was £240,239. The Byfas co.
was the only one of the group to trade
at a loss (amount unstated). The
£73,012 of profit claimed was a mere
3.6 p.c. on capital as against 19.6, 29.9,
25.8 and 29.5 p.c. back to 1948. The div.
was lowered from 12| p.c. to 8 p.c., and
reserves were drawn upon for £86,988 to
pay it, which can be taken as a hint that
the worst of the co.’s troubles have now
passed.
It all shows up again in a contraction
of £327,657 net in stocks and of £265,510
in book-debts:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,981,378 £2,000,000
Outside interests* 716 1,218 1,095
Overdraft .. 774,142 779,773 826,739
Sundry 457,924 738,734 378,908
Staff funds .. 80,000 97,174 91,801
Final div. .. 75,000 150,000 80,000
Freeholds .. 481,537 496,401 522,461
Plant, etc. .. 439,308 567,164 664,862
Stocks ~ .. 2,180,725 3,305,198 2,977,541
Debtors .. .. 438,811 697,053 431,543
Shares . . . . 45,260 60,122 67,774
Cash, etc 85,874 85,336 85,209
* Including proportion reserves, t Including tax
provision.
The amount coming to sundry creditors
was reduced by £359;826, while £46,966
was added to the overdraft and £123,758
net to the book-value of fixed assets. Re-
duction in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£2,184,619) was £197,409.
Although there was little, if any, im-
provement in the trade position for the
first quarter of the current term, condi-
tions have improved since. Retailers have
substantially reduced excess stocks, credit
is less tight, consumer buying is strength-
ening, the efficiency of labor has im-
proved, the rate of increase in wage and
other costs has slowed down, prices in the
raw-wool market have strengthened, and
import restrictions have done much so
far as competition from overseas is con-
cerned.
The price of the f.-p. £1 shares, which
fell from 535. early in 1952 to 365. in
September, stood at 38s, 6d. last week,
giving an immediate return of only 4.1
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for 5.2 p.c. on his money
counts on a 10 p.c. distribution. Includ-
ing the replacement reserve, net tangible
cover is 33 s, Bd.
Samuel Allen & Sons (Townsville)
r - Dividends ,
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£' £> £ £ £
1945.. 38,882 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 16,382 62,099
To staff fund, £llBO., .. .. 60,919
From reserves re leases, £2282 .. 58,637
1946.. 35,693 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 13,193 71,830
From reserves re leases, £4077 .. 67,753
6J p.c.
1947.. 45,039 9,285 6J p.c. = 15,090 20,664 88,417
To tax provision, £5500 .. .. 82,917
Share premiums, £24,50 0 .. .. 107,417
1948.. 43,573 9,285 6} p.c. = 18,408 15,880 123,297
1949.. 47,170 9,285 6£ „ ~ 23,052 14,833 138,130
8 p.c.
1950.. 57,813 11,428 8 „ ~ 28,372 18,013 156.143
Revaluation assets, £133,985 ~ .. 290,128
Share premiums, £96,625 .. ..386,753
1951.. 75,368 11,428 8 p.c. = 39,882 24,058 410,811
Share premiums, £4784 .. .. 415,595
1952.. 90,762 11,428 8 p.c. = 54,578 24,756 440,851
Consolidation of recently-acquired in-
terests, continued growth and a satisfac-
tory level of net earnings were the high-
lights of the latest accounts of this old-
established North Queensland trader.
Since June, 1950, the book-value of free-
holds has been written-up by £133,985
for mortgage purposes, and issued capi-
tal has increased by £350,000 —share-
holders put up £128,375 at par and
£221,625 was issued at premiums totalling
£101,409 in acquisition of new interests,
etc. The total in the , register is now
£847,500 in 71,428 first and a like num-
ber of second prefs., both 6 p.c. cumula-
tive, and 704,644 ords., on which there
was £25 to come in when the books
closed.
In Dec., 1950, an engineering-supply
and hardware business in Cairns, now
trading as Wypers (Cairns) Pty., was
taken over; later the 25-year-old farm-
and irrigation-machinery undertaking of
A. E. Clayton at Ayr was acquired; a new
offshoot. Magnetic Motors Pty., was
formed to take over the parent’s free-
holds and its Ford franchise; another
offshoot, Allen’s Investment Pty., has been
set up to handle hire-purchase business
for the group ; and another subsidiary,
Tropic Cordials Pty., formed to make
cordials at Townsville, has now ceased
trading, the board having decided it can
use the capital involved to better advant-
age elsewhere.
Meanwhile the parent’s hotel interests,
mainly in the thirsty area between Cairns
and Bowen, have been further
strengthened, and its general merchandis-
ing activities, augmented a few years ago
by purchase of a controlling interest in
Hollimans (Townsville retailers), have
continued to expand, and so has its list
of agencies, to which has been added
franchises for the products of Moffat-
Virtue, Ltd., and Essantee Switchgear
Pty.
Excepting Tropic Cordials, all mem-
bers of the group traded at a profit last
term, and, excluding motor-vehicles,
sales notched another record. After
allowing for taxation (£72,500, up £679U)
and depreciation (£15,880, up £1715), the
net result was £90,762 (up £15,394), equa
to. 11 p.c. on average capital (pref. and
ord. combined) as against 12.2, 11.6, 9.5>
10.2 and 12 p.c. back to 1947. The div.
was kept at an all-round 8 p.c. — the prets.
advance with the ords. in any distribu-
tion beyond 6 p.c.—making the average
6.4 p.c. over the last decade.
There was an improvement of £83,869
in the more-or-less liquid surpm
(£283,720), due mainly to introduction


y rojw#/£r
The Metropolitan Deferred Assurance Plan enables you
to pay minimum premiums for your child, and on his
majority, he can carry on the policy ... an inducement
to thrilt and a protection for his future years. Ask for
Table “Q.”
Today’s Protection —Tomorrow’s Security
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co. Ltd.
HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS. SYDNEY.
incorporated In Queensland. 189 s.
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Missing Friend
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
FRANK EDWARD HUGHES, formerly of
Bellairs Street, Kensington, and of
Windsor, Victoria, and possibly lately of
Mackay, Queensland, kindly communicate
with JONES AND KENNEDY. Solicitors,
Footseray.
Step our a
NEW MAN
in a
lima
BELT
Thousands of men are en*
joying greater comfort by
wearing the world - famous
Linia Belt. Evolved in co-
operation with the highest
medical authorities and
made from a patented
woven Tricot that supports
and massages with every
movement. Light and com-
fortable, the Linia Belt is
easily slipped in place and
readily adjusted. The Linia
method is world wide.
Write to-day for our
free illustrated
"Danger Curve"
Booklet and price
list.
I
2S
'
LINI A BELTS
Sold in Australia only by
of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 COLLINS ST. t MELBOURNE. C.l. Phone FA 8357
Open Saturday Mornings.
Branches throughout the British Isles, and the Continent
Mutual Life Society
a record year
Assurances in Force
( EXCtUOINC ACCIDENT DEPARTMENT)
now exceed „ £257,000,000
The 76th Annual Report of the T. & G. Mutual Life
Society shows that once again Policy holders can be
justifiably proud of the outstanding development of
their Society.
new policies
New and existing Policy holders revealed
confidence in the Society by taking out
115,326 new Life Policies assuring
£36,891,341 and 13,998 new Accident and
Sickness Policies. Also 28,318 Life Policies
were endorsed with Accident Benefits for
£10,483,968.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
In the Ordinary and Industrial Departments
there are 1,599,000 Policies in force assuring
more than £25 7,000,000.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
SERVICE
The T. & G. is a Mutual Life Society—a truly co-operative
institution. All claims are settled promptly. £5,689,000 Vfras
paid to Policy holders last year, making a total of more
than £41,264,000 during the past 10 years.
INCOME
The Income for the year exceeded £14,760,000 —£1,260,000
more than the previous year—a record increase.
SECURITY
The Society is in an impregnable financial position. The Assets
—held in trust to meet payments to Policy
holders as they fall due—increased by
£5,840,000 to a record total of £83,950,000.
GROUP ASSURANCE
The number of firms and cojnpanies entrust-
ing their Staff Superannuation and Group
Provident Schemes to the Society increased
during last year. These schemes are available
on terms most advantageous to both em-
ployers and employees.
PURELY MUTUAL
NO SHAREHOLDERS
The T. & G. is one of the strongest and most progressive Life
Offices in the British Empire
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd. (Inc, in Victoria 1876.)
of £90,997 of fresh share
capital; —
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital £497,500 £756,478 £847,475
Mortgage .. 35,003 279,641 266,521
Overdraft .. 304,860 36,505 245,339
Creditors and
tax .. 298,183 444,645 381,366
Final div. .. 23,631 28,698 33,900
Properties
and plant 449,190 684,374 720,765
Shares •• 19.939 286,064 283,340
Stocks .. 408,455 471,294 630,277
Book debts 428,637 508,954 571,221
Cash, etc. .. 9.104 9,092 9,348
With the help of a further
£208,834 from the bank, £63,279
was clipped off the amount com-
ing to trade creditors, £36,391
net was added to fixed assets,
£158,98 3 to stocks and £62,267
to book-debts.
The effects of recent economic
developments have been felt less
in north Queensland than in the
southern States. Sales for the
first couple of months of the
current term were 23 p.c. above
those for the corresponding
period of the previous year. And
developments in the sugar and
tobacco industries and at Mt.
Isa and the Tully Falls hydro-
electric project augur well for
trade in the area served by the
co. Still, profits will be more
difficult to win than of recent
years.
At 255. 6d. (295. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 ords. return 6.3 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis the first prefs. at 255.
yield 6.4 p.c. The seconds seldom
appear on the market. Net
tangible cover is 30s. sd. All
shares rank equally for surplus
assets.
Emperor Mines, Ltd.
This is the holding co. through
which the public is interested in
the Emperor Gold Mining Co.,
Ltd., Tavua field (Fiji). During
the seven years to end 1950 no
less than £858,100 of capital (9s.
per 10s. share) was returned,
thus avoiding much heavy Gov-
ernment bleeding by way of
Australian income tax. Paid
capital now stands at £95,700 in
Is. shares; and since further
reduction was considered un-
desirable, the co. has resumed
payment of dividends again—6d.
a share (50 p.c.) is to go out on
Dec. .19, first thing of its kind
since 1941.. At June 30 last
assets consisted of 200,000
2s. 6d. shares in the operating
co. in the books at £517,946,
Commonwealth bonds £154,499,
shares in other cos. £38,205, and
cash, etc., £7626. Current
liabilities amounted to only
£3533, and there were inter-co.
debts totalling £187,914.
The operating co. netted
£79,840 (down £58,553), equal to
lOd. per Is. share in the holding
cp. The two main factors
responsible for the contraction
in net earnings were a rise of
6s. 3.9 d. in operating costs
(625. 9.2 d, per ton) and drop in
the average grade of ore treated.
Here are the mill figures;
, Gold ,
Treated Head Re- Silver
Ore, Value, covered, Recov’d,
Tons. Dwt. Fine Oz. Fine Oz.
1949. .139,588 8.89 59,241 17,004
1950. .133,089 8.73 52,928 14,186
1951. .153,847 8.32 58,887 20,020
1952. .151,000 7.69 51,666 16,015
The drop in grade was due to
inclusion of marginal ore which
the premium (14s. 7d. a fine
ounce) on sale of gold on the
“free” market made payable.
Ore reserves at June 30 were
conservatively put at 890,000
tons positive, averaginf 7.9dwt.,
and 150,000 probable, averaging
7.2dwt. There is thus seven
years’ work ahead of the mill at
last term’s rate of extraction, with
indications of more and richer
ore coming in at depth. On
No. 8 level driving on the
Duchess lode disclosed ounce
stuff over a width of 48in. for a
length of 250 ft. The Regent
lode showed 12dwt. ore for
about 360 ft. over a width
of 30in., and average vafues in
the Monarch lode are better than
in the upper levels.
From the investor’s point of
view, the most interesting
development is the possible
extension of ore-bodies to
the north and east of those
now being worked. This
is suggested by churn-drill
disclosures on the eastern
boundary, and leases covering
14,000 acres have been taken up
by Emperor and its two associ-
ated cos. A preliminary geo-
logical survey of new areas is
under way, and test-drilling will
soon begin. Much will depend
upon the outcome of this
prospect.
The market prices Emperor’s
Is. shares at Bs. or thereabouts.


For Your Lord-and-Master
Your Sons and Your Father
Jr «
0
..
23
A CHRISTMAS CARD by Norman
Lindsay announcing your gift of a One-
Year Subscription to “The Bulletin”
will be posted to you for your personal
signature and dispatch on receipt of
36/- (£2 oversea, British Empire).
The card illustration is a reproduction
seven by five inches of Norman Lind-
say’s Christmas “Bulletin” cartoon.
Keep them informed and entertained all the year round —
Give a One-year "Bulletin" Subscription
Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Invitations were issued by Sir Owen
Dixon, president of the English Speaking
Union, and Lady Dixon for a late-after-
noon party in honor of the British High
Commissioner, Sir Stephen Holmes, and
Lady Holmes, but as Sir Owen was
away on circuit duty, Lady Dixon
received the guests. In this she
had the able assistance of the secretary
of E.S.U., Mrs. Graham Egerton. Lady
Dixon contrasted her black ensemble
with a small white hat. Lady Holmes’s
pretty frock was of grey organza
patterned in a white lace design, and
was worn with a small white straw hat
which had a feather-wing across the front
of the brim.
* # #
Sheila Scottar’s fashion-show in the
model-room of the Myer Emporium
featured many pretty cotton frocks and
smart beach ensembles. Natural raffia,
the type used to make table-mats, was
used to make a strapless full-skirted frock
for beach wear. Unusual touch was the
deep fringe of raffia which outlined the
hem. Raffia in pink, royal-blue and deep-
rose was slotted through the skirt of an-
other beach frock. Heads of Red Indian
chiefs in full regalia were patterned on
a simple white cotton frock,
☆‘ ☆ ☆
The Lower Town Hall was thronged
with those interested in (he work of the
Arts and Crafts Society of Victoria.
Wrought-iron furniture, hand-loomed
linen and rugs, pottery and baskets of
flowers , were just a few of the lovely
articles shown by artists.
Lady Brooks, accompanied on a tour of
inspection by Lady Dixon, president, and
Mrs. C. W. Marriott, vice-president, was
presented with a frock for her new grand-
son, Christoper Ernest Dallas Byrne. The
frock was a simple smocked style in pale-
blue handkerchief-linen and was made
by Mrs. D. Cramp. The society also
presented the Prime Minister, before he
left for London, with a lovely hand-
woven rug.
# # V
Mrs, Charles McKay presided at the
final meeting of the year of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital, when Mesdames R. Klebe and
R. Russell gave interesting readings on
Christmas. Another special guest was
Mrs. Harold B. Farris, who with her
husband is enjoying her first visit to this
country—their home is on an island
south of Vancouver. Members present
included Mrs. Reg Williams, daughter
of Colonel and Mrs. Rufus Ramey, Mrs.
Charles Lewis, Mrs. J, M. Popadak and
her daughter Marie, Mrs. B. W. Dray-
ton, and Mesdames Herbert Allen, F.
Callahan, Mrs. Earl Daum and Mrs. Tom
Blarney.
☆ ☆
Alan Bernaldo’s exhibition of paint-
ings at the Athenaeum Gallery, which is
worth seeing, was opened by English
actor Edwin Styles in his usual graceful
manner. The artist’s wife, Peggy, was
hostess and wore one of the outfits
gathered on her trip to the Austrian Tyrol.
Among the many visitors were Mrs.
Herbert Harrison, Mrs. Frank Bennell,
Mrs. Les Sangster, Mrs. Arthur Crofts,
Mrs. W. Plowright, Mrs. B. Fordham,
Miss Alyce Wyatt and Maree Austin,
who plays the maid in the current Edwin
Styles play “The White Sheep of the
Family.”
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was the venue for the marriage of Judith
Mary, younger daughter of Mrs. C, R.
Cowling, of Glen Iris, and the late Mr.
Cowling, to Derek Albert, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Austin, of Ellyer,
Mortlake. The bride’s bouffant gown of
white French organza over white faille
featured a panel of tucks in both skirt
and train. A pearl coronet held the tulle
veil, and her bouquet was of small white
orchids. Mrs. Malcolm Allen and
Kathleen Kelso attended the bride in
frocks of white French organza over
powder-blue faille. Their bouquets were
of cornflowers and white daisies. Byron
Jackson was best man and David Philip
groomsman. Reception was at Menzies’,
Edith Harrhy, composer-pianist, is in
private life Mrs. C. Beckx Daly, and has
two daughters: Pat, who is in London
studying work for the pre-school child,
and Mrs. Douglas Coutts. Creator of
songs which all hear the imprint of her
gift for melody , Edith was the composer
of "The Jolly Friar," to the libretto of
Will Foster, and which was produced at
the Union Theatre with great success.
A recent recital of the composer's works
was given in the Assembly flail by
baritone Robert Payne , soprano Kath-
leen Goodall and violinist Milton Holden.
Her settings of some Australian poems
have won acclaim. Photo. by Athol
Shmith, by courtesy of A.B.C.
Young conductor Harold Badger
notched a signal success when he launched
his Melbourne String Ensemble. Works
by Bach and Mozart were greatly to the
audience’s liking. In Bach’s Piano Con-
certo in E Minor Ruth Farren Price
was solo pianist. Composer Robert
Hughes was in the audience to hear the
Ensemble present his Fantasia for Strings.
Mrs. Harold Badger, the conductor’s
mother, was present with a party of
friends, and her white organza frock
was worn with a sari of beaten silver.
Others noticed were Commander Robert
Macklin, Assistant U.S. Naval Attache,
and Mrs. Macklin, Mrs. John Newton,
in an unusual short dinner-frock of white
silver-striped faille, Mrs, George Besant,
whose full-length coat was of emerald-
green faille, and Mrs. Alan McKay, who
chose an off-white frock and a coat of
navy faille.
# # #
Wearing a lovely wide-skirted frock
of dove-grey Capri lace which had short
sleeves and a deep oval neckline, and a
picture-hat of matching tulle, Gloria, only
daughter of Mrs. W. H. Horsfall, of South
Yarra, and the late Mr. Ladd, was married
at Scotch College Chapel to Graham,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. E. Oliver, of
Bacchus Marsh. Forty friends of bride
and ’groom were entertained at a dinner-
party at the Australia. Mrs. Horsfall
received the guests wearing a deep-honey-
toned Chantilly lace frock and a small
white feather-hat. Mrs. Oliver wore a
wide-brimmed black hat finished with
ospreys with her slim black crepe-romaine
frock.
SYDNEY
The Bon Bon Ball organised by the Red
Cross Younger Set and held at Prince’s,
was one of the prettiest dances of the
season. Patron Mrs. Ken Pointing wore
a lovely dress of blue organza over lilac.
President Margaret Gustafson was in
blue ruffled nylon net. Among the
dancers, all of whom were younger than
springtime and beautifully dressed, one
noticed Prue Moses in a flower-sprinkled
white dress, Sally Ingate in blue moire,
Ann Livingston in pale-gold striped tie-
silk, Robin McFadyen in rich bronze
tones of rustling silk, Averil Trenerry
sparkling in white tulle and silver, Diana
Andrews in sophisticated black with a
U-shaped neckline and Josephine Roche
in a beautiful dress of Italian silk taffeta.
Jeremy Phillips, Bill Briggs, Jim Robson-
Scott, lan Sinclair, John Trenerry and
Gordon Ingate were among those repre-
senting the stronger sex.
* ☆ ☆
A very bright idea at the Christmas-
party of the American Women’s Associa-
tion (held at the Pickwick) was to hand
out scraps of paper and material to the
guests and tell them to go ahead and make
Christmas-tree decorations (these were to
be used for the Christmas-party which
the association gives annually to children
from the Salvation Army homes). The
prizes for the best ornaments were a
snowball candle that burns for ever and a
packet of special pancake mixture. Guests
were received by Mrs. Charles Rutter.
Programme arranged by Mrs. Pearl
Campbell included carol-singing and some
charming songs by Vera and Beatrice
Keame. Mrs. Hazel McCadden was the
Father Christmas who gave out the
presents (everyone had brought one and
got a different one back), and Mrs’
Mabel Wain Smith did a neat supervisory
job of making people feel happy—not
very difficult, however, in that animated
group.
☆ ☆ ☆
As the Vice-Chancellor of the Uni-
versity was ill, Mrs. S. H. Roberts was
assisted by the Chancellor, Sir Charles
Bickerton Blackburn, in welcoming the 450
guests to a reception in the Great Hall
on Friday. One huge bowl of all-white
flowers stood at the end of the hall and
with three smaller vases was just enough
to set off the beauty of the hall itself.
The assembly was representative of the
diplomatic and consular corps, leading
citizens from the world of music, art
and learning, the judiciary, and the
business world. Noted were Sir
John and Lady Butters, Mr. and Mrs.
Justice Herron, Dr. Harold Wyndham
(the new Director of Education), Mr. and
Mrs. George Scammell, Mr. Justice Mc-
Clemens, Mr. Justice Maxwell and Mrs.
Maxwell, Mr. Justice Taylor and Mrs.
Taylor, Mrs. J. W. M. Eaton, the Roy
McKerihans, the Norman Jenkyns and
Mr. and Mrs. Allan-Wflliams.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wondered why Janet Bardsley and Roy
Michael looked so starry-eyed at the
Bon Bon Ball, so was not surprised to
hear of their engagement on Saturday,
Janet is the only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs, George Bardsley, of Drummoyne.
Roy is the only son of the C. Y. Michaels,
of Epping.
# # V
Not many people dressed for the open-
ing night of “Annie Get Your Gun” at
the Royal. Apparently revivals are re-
garded as a night off. However, glamor
was provided by Joy Turpin in one of
the boxes, dressed in white with a pale-
blue lace covering the bodice, and wear-
ing white flowers in her hair. Evie Hayes
is as good as ever in the role of Annie
(her nose is much better). Lady Braddon
and the Cliff Parays were present, also
the H. J. Bradys. Mrs. Sam Lands wore
a magnificent dress of organza in aqua
and cinnamon shades, the bodice all
glittery and glamorous.
☆ ☆ ☆
What looks like the perfect little gift
for Christmas is a copy of the white-
covered booklet “The King Who Walked
With God,” compiled by Mrs. L. Mac
Smith as a tribute to the late King
George VI. It is beautifully printed on
glossy paper and illustrated with pictures
of every member of the reigning family.
Mrs. Mac Smith has had it published for
the Country Women’s Associations in
Orange (N.S.W.) and in Toowoomba (Q.)
to help raise funds for a rest-room and
a hostel. The booklets are 10s, each and
can be obtained from Mrs. Dutton, presi-
dent, C.W.A., Orange, and from Mrs.
Baldock, president. Darling Downs
C.W.A., Toowoomba.
w ☆
The Sydney Rescue Work Society is
holding a button-day on all stations from
Erskineville to Cronulla (except Hurst-
ville) next Friday, and makes a special
appeal for people to help in this simple
way those whom the society cares for.
Among them are the children of un-
married mothers and children from
broken homes. It is for these innocent
boys and girls that the society appeals
for funds.
☆ ☆ ☆
The ballroom of the Hotel Australia
was the meeting-place for the 39th
Christmas-party of the English Speaking
Union, when the president, Mr. Justice
Herron, with Mrs. Herron, received the
guests-of-honor, the American Ambassa-
dor, Mr. Pete Jarman, and Mrs. Jarman.
About 150 members of the union were
entertained during the evening with
musical items by Denise Thompson and
New Zealander Edward Collings. Mr.
Fred Kinney, an American member of
the E.S.U. Younger Set, read a
charming Christmas story by Heywood
Broun.
Mrs. E. C. O'Dca, who yesterday con-
cluded her four-year term of office to
Lady Mayoress, said at the meeting of her
Relief Fund Committee last week that her
association with its members had been
one of the happiest periods of her life.
How hard the committee had worked was
shown by the grand total of £10,027
raised in the four years, with an expense-
sheet for the full time of only £84 7s.
This meant that 99 per cent, of the money
raised was handed over to charity. Lady
Parker, in pitying a tribute to Mrs. O'Dea
on behalf of the committee, said that
without her cheerfulness and co-operation
the members could not have done nail
as well. It was her leadership which had
stimulated them to the effort. Mrs.
O'Dea, who will continue as a member
of the committee, said that she under-
took the role of Lady Mayoress wilhgrea
nervousness, but left u in a happy f r a m e
of mind because she knew she had done
her best. At last week's meeting the
cheque for this year, £2867, was divided
among eight charities. The expenses in-
curred in raising this money went only
£3 8 15s. Photo by Dayne.
It was remarkable how many of the
audience at the Independent’s first nig
of “Lazzaro” wore black, white or d
together. Fittingly, though accidenta y>
the girls selling programmes also c
this fashionable color combination, Jo>
Bianci’s black organza skirt was tea
with a white guipure-lace blouse,
white grosgrain jacket topped °n M
Martelli’s long narrow black son-
Margery Lockwood wore a silvery-
brocade dress. Mrs. Alan Harvey,
husband is a member of the cast, w
black velvet and white organdie ball ■
Lady Barlow (who is actress Marg
Rawlings) said that her .short black
ing dress had been designed in K ’
which was quite appropriate, sine
play is by distinguished Italian e
Pirandello and the first-night au
consisted mainly of members 0
“Dante Alighieri” Italian Literary bocie y.


products print
kootes
CROUP
t^ c
6*o
Ml
XX>
& p
*Q2
3N*
■
W
m
H
=»!•-
*3
I -
*•' 0«*l
■HH
'■"V
' > - &» * iA»PPS»V
« -«v .SSw v I
■ *\> TSi
liUtMk V"':
X %
mmf
r^j
4*
IS
p
■
■
395» •
s
I
m
%
. m i
p*
i
iKiM
>' -.
881
■E
I *.
u ...
mmm
**
r m
.-■ . -■ m ■
ft
*f !
r v»**
Mi
2N
I).
■
m
m
§m
Hi
*mmm
■X- -
ip <-
■
■
M
i
m
■ •::
|WT ? I
H ■■
«»
■
r i
mo*
«* i -
n
e ~
1
.
i
\d
/
d
■
1
©t
s
»<*
d 1
\\*
Ct*
6*o
** s
I ■
\et s
pe»
iqo
d
&
o* s
*>d^
<X'
o\s
The Australian factory of the Rootes Group at Fishermen's
Bend, Victoria, is a guarantee that the Rootes standard of craftsmanship
is maintained on the spot by skilled Australian workers. It ensures that
Rootes Distributors and their Dealers are able to offer
competent service by factory-trained mechanics, quick availability of
genuine parts, and factory-rebuilt units for speedy re-fitting.
Designed for the roads of the world-proved on the roads of Australia
• •
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT
COMMER, HARRIER, VULCAN, TILLIN6-STEVENS


THE PROMISE
by STANDBY
(R.S. PORTEOUS)
THIS is the pilot’s story and
it is best that he tell it in his
own words, for in his quiet,
unemotional way he painted
a picture so vivid that we
shuddered at the realism of it
He made us realise the modem
comfort and security of our sea-
faring lives, but somehow he
made us proud that we belonged
to the same profession as he did.
He boarded us one grey, dirty
morning, the sort of morning
that makes a sailor wish he was
a bank-clerk or shop-assistant—
anything so long as it offered a
snug shore berth. We were hoye-
to outside the port, rolling
heavily to a confused breaking
sea, while driving rain-squalls
hissed and splattered along the
decks. And out of that grey
waste the little white pilot-launch
came rearing and plunging to-
wards us, burying her nose under
every second comber, deluging
herself in spray. Getting aboard,
even under our lee, was going to
call for nice timing and
judgment.
“No job for a middle-aged
spread, eh?” the Old Man
remarked, smiling and eyeing his
own ample girth.
We agreed, watching the
launch round up under our lee
as the coxswain manoeuvred her
towards the rope - ladder.
Although protected from the
main force of the breaking seas
she was rolling her gunwales
under, rising and falling on the
surge with the wild swoops of a
wind-buffeted gull. Between her
lively antics and our own
sluggish rolling there was no
co-ordinated movement. It was
as if launch and steamer had
nothing in common.
The oilskin-cl a J figure of the
pilot stepped to the rail; the
launch surged inwards and up-
ward. We saw co-ordinated
movement then. Right on the
crest of a wave, with only a foot
or two between launch and ship,
the pilot stepped on to the ladder
and, without a backward glance,
began to climb. It was perfect
timing. No hesitation, no wild
scrambling—just an apparently
effortless step from launch to
ship. From our towering height
it was impossible to tell what
manner of man the pilot was.
We took it for granted that he
was young.
The third-mate was at the head
of the ladder, waiting to escort
the pilot to the bridge. Old
Petersen, our bosun, was also
standing by, an expectant grin
lighting his lined old face.
Though his presence was quite
unnecessary, no one minded if
Petersen chose to act as self-
appointed welcoming committee.
He was privileged because he
was a genuine old shellback.
He’d been beating round the
Horn in windjammers before
most of us were boi n, had been
with the company when few of
us knew the difference between
bath- and bilgewater. And
during all those years in British
ships he’d never lost his Swedish
accent. Not that he gave himself
much practice, for he seldom
spoke when a nod or a shake of
the head would suffice. What
tales he could have told of hard-
driven ships in the Roaring
Forties if only we could have
induced him to talk! But he
never opened up, never
responded to attempts to draw
him out. Just stood with a quiet
smile on his broad, weathered
old face, at most saying “Ya,
dey vos hard old ships, dose
wind-yatnmers.”
In his prime he must have
been a magnificent figure of a
man, for even now he looked like
a huge benevolent old Viking,
lined, weathered and heavily
tattooed.
The pilot clambered over the
rail, and the first thing we
noticed was that he was far from
young. The hair showing
beneath his felt hat was snow-
white. He stepped forward, and,
completely ignoring the third-
mate, reached for Petersen’s out-
stretched hand. He was a small
man. The bosun towered over
him and his hand was lost in the
great tattooed paw. For several
minutes they stood there
exchanging greetings while the
Old Man looked down from the
bridge, waiting for the pilot to
come up and take over. I
expected him to fume at the
delay—he was an intolerant old
swine at times —but to my sur-
prise he was smiling.
The pilot hauled a bottle from
under his oilskin and thrust it
into the bosun’s hand. Even the
brown-paper wrappings couldn’t
disguise the fact that it was a
bottle —an odd-shaped one.
I F old Petersen had a weakness
' it was a fondness for gin—
not any gin, but one particular
brand that was becoming increas-
ingly hard to get. In fact I
would have said that it had gone
clean off the market were it not
that the bosun managed to
get hold of a bottle now
and again. Obviously one
had just come his way, and the
maimer in which it was handed
over and accepted gave us the
impression that some sort of a
ceremony was being performed.
Once again I waited for an
outburst from a captain who
strongly disapproved of any
member of his crew having
liquor aboard, but none came.
The Old Man was standing there,
calmly lighting his pipe, as if it
was a perfectly normal thing to
keep a valuable ship waiting out-
side a port while the pilot chatted
to the bosun and presented him
with a bottle of grog.
The ceremony over, the pilot
turned and ran lightly up the
bridge-ladder, the third-mate
following several steps behind.
Extending a plump hand the
Old Man said “Morning, Pilot.
Nice boating weather.”
Under the dripping brim of the
felt hat a pair of very alert grey
eyes twinkled.
“Lovely, Captain,” the pilot
agreed. “Sort of weather that
keeps a man young and active.”
He glanced towards the outer
sea-leads, almo s t hidden behind
the driving rain. “Half-ahead.
Hard a-port,” he ordered. “I’ll
take you in to an anchorage,
Captain. There’ll be no berth
available for you until late this
afternoQn.”
IT was while we were lying at
1 anchor that the Old Man got
the pilot launched on his story.
“They told me in Sydney,” he
said, •'“that you and Petersen
were the sole survivors of the
wreck of one of the old wind-
jammers, Pilot. Is that right?”
“Not quite right, Captain.
Hasn’t Petersen ever told you
about it?”
“Petersen! ” the Old Man
exclaimed. “Can you imagine
that silent old monument telling
anyone a story?”
“I suppose not. Talking never
was his strong point. Even in
his young days he saved words
as if each one cost money. We
were shipmates once.”
The pilot broke off and gazed
thoughtfully across the harbor.
“Lord, I must be getting old. A
devil of a long time ago, it was.
In the old full-rigged ship
Seymore, Melbourne to Talca-
huno on the coast of Chile, with
a cargo of grain. I was appren-
tice and Petersen was A. 8., a big
blond giant of a man, quiet but
a good shipmate and a splendid
seaman. My family were paying
a premium to the owners, but it
was Petersen who really taught
me seamanship. I looked on
him as a sort of a benevolent
godfather, and if he thought I
was an infernal young nuisance
he never showed it. In fact he
seemed pleased to adopt me.
“There was nothing unusual
about the voyage. We drove her
hard, but then we always did in
those old ' windjammers. No
ringing down to the engine-
room for a bit more or a bit less
speed. It was a case of crowd
on everything she could carry,
hang on to it till the last possible
minute —usually the middle of
the night—then up aloft and
claw it off her in pitch-black
darkness and a gale of wind.
“The night of the thirty-second
day out the Old Man was up on
th& poop looking for a landfall.
My heavens, it’s no wonder so
many of those old wind-ships
were lost with all hands! The
night was as thick as soup, with
a stiff breeze blowing from dead
aft. And there we were, bowling
along with everything, even the
royals, set, looking for a land-
fall! I believe the Old Man was
expecting to pick up Quiraquina
Island light before daylight. He
didn’t. At eleven-thirty Petersen,
who was on lookout, reported a
light two points on the starboard
bow. It was faint; sometimes
we lost it altogether in the rain.
Evidently the Old Man was
satisfied because we kept on.
That was his second mistake, for
the light turned out to be Santa
Maria Island light and ten
minutes after we sighted it we
were aground.
‘ < T UST like that. No crash,
no panic and bawling of
orders. Nothing. No one even
knew when it happened. We may
have gone aground before we
sighted the light, for even Peter-
sen, up on the fo’c’sle head,
didn’t feel her strike, I believe
the Old Man was saying some-
thing to the mate about the light
still being a long way off because
we weren’t altering the bearing.
How could we alter the bearing
when we weren’t moving? \
“It sounds silly, doesn’t it, to
talk of a ship hard and fast
aground and not one of her crew
aware of it? You wouldn’t think
it possible. Or you’d say we
were all asleep. But we weren’t.
The Old Man and the mate were
both on the poop. Petersen was
keeping a lookout from the
fo’c’sle head and we, the port
watch, were grouped in the waist,
watching the light and wonder-
ing how soon we’d be ordered
aloft to get some of the canvas
off her. We had cause to wonder,
for not only had we made a
landfall but the wind was
obviously freshening.
“I was the first to discover
that something was wrong.
Don’t ask me why I did it, but
I looked over the side, straight
down into the water. We’d been
running for days with a follow-
ing sea, and though it was still
coming from dead astern it
somehow looked different. There
was a dead look about the water,
and I couldn’t see any sign of
our progress through it. I had
a feeling that something was
wrong but X wasn’t sure.
Remember, it was black, dark
and still raining. I wanted to
report my suspicions to the poop,
but I was afraid of making a fool
of myself.
“Instead I climbed to the
fo’c’sle head and said to Petersen
‘Karl, there’s something wrong.
I think the ship’s aground.’
“He laughed and said ‘Dot’s a
good vun, Yack.’
“Because I was young it
worried me to think that even
Petersen, my best friend,
wouldn’t take me seriously. ‘l’m
not joking, Karl,’ I told him.
‘Look over the side and see for
yourself.’
“He put one thumping great
hand on my shoulder and, with
the other one, pointed aloft and
then aft. Masts and yards with
their straining qanvas towered
above us in the darkness, sway-
ing just as they’d swayed all
through our watch and every
other watch for days. You only
had to glance up there to feel
the powerful, buoyant drive of
the ship. And looking aft along
her decks we could see the poop
rising to each following sea,
wallowing in the trough and
rising again to meet the next
wave. The ship was behaving
as any normal ship would, hard-
driven in a following sea. No
winder Petersen doubted me,
“I had to practically drag him
to the rail, but once there he
leaned outward with me till we
could both see the dark outline
of the stem. With the canvas
we were carrying the ship should
have had a great bone in her
teeth, but there wasn’t the
faintest gleam of a bow-wave.
“p)NE look was enough for
k-' Petersen. He cupped his
hands to his mouth and roared
at the top of his lungs ‘Hard
down der helm. Ye’re aground.’
“I left him and raced aft.
Being only a bit of a kid the
stranding seemed a big adventure
to me. Something to break the
monotony. The sort of thing
I’d signed-on for. I burst into
the half-deck and roused the
three apprentices of the starb’d
watch, but it took the sound of
running feet on deck and the
shouting of orders to convince
them I wasn’t joking. It was
‘All hands on deck,’ then.
‘Brace up the yards. Lively
now.’
“We pulled and we hauled,
but nothing made any difference.
She just lay there, held fast
for’ard and quite buoyant aft.
We weren’t in the least worried.
The sounding showed that we
had run aground on a shelving
mudbank. There was no danger
in soft mud. Not like rocks that
could tear the bottom out of a
ship
“The Old Man ordered all the
canvas to be taken in, and we
scrambled aloft, thinking what a
lark it all was. We were ship-
wrecked mariners without any
of the dangers and discomforts
of the usual shipwreck. If we
couldn’t get the ship off we’d be
sent home as passengers at the
company’s expense. The rain
had stopped while we were haul-
ing on the yards, and we could
see that the light was quite close
—not much over half-a-mile
away. There’d be men there—
lightkeepers waiting to welcome
us with steaming hot coffee. The
light was of the revolving type,
and each time the beam swung
our way it lit up everything
aloft.
“The mate had ordered
‘Harbor Stow,’ and we joked as
we got the canvas off her, yelling
out pleasantries to shipmates on
other yards each time the beam
from the lighthouse lit us up.
Why shouldn’t we take it
lightly? The ship was taking
the seas easily, and, though the
wind was rising every minute,
we’d got the canvas off her in
far worse weather than this.
t i C ROM the poop far below
1 us someone fired a rocket.
I remember thinking how pretty
it looked as it curved upwards
and burst. We all stopped work
to admire it.
“That’s how a landsman looks
on a rocket —as a. bit of spec-
tacular entertainment. But a
rocket at sea is a signal, a plea
for help or a warning. With us
that first rocket was all three.
We sent up others that night,
but none Of them had the signi-
ficance of that first one. It was
the Old Man’s admission that the
ship and all of us in her were
in actual danger. We thought he
was mad at first. Mad or just
plain windy. But it wasn’t long
before we realised how right he
was. The ship swung broadside-
on to the seas, and instead of
riding them easily she began
rolling her guts out, ending each
roll with a terrific jerk. In a few
minutes our attitude had changed
from lighthearted enjoyment to
plain fear. The wind was shriek-
ing through the rigging, and
above its wailing we could hear
the seas crashing over the ship
below us.
“We should have left her then,
and let the sails go to hell, but
the second-mate was up aloft
with us, insisting on a neat
harbor-stow. Can you imagine
anything more absurd? A
harbor-stow when it was obvious
that if she kept up that wild jerky
rolling she’d tear her masts out.
And we’d go with them.
“We didn’t make a harbor-
stow, or anything like it. Eacn
of us had only one hand to spare
for the owners; we needed tn
other to keep from being cata-
pulted clean over the yard, ine
masts shuddered under tnc
impact as each wave crasne
aboard, and, looking down, we
could see the combers breaking
over our ship. „ f r
“If there is a special hell rox
wicked sailors we got a
preview of it that night, xh
were rockets soaring up
bursting in showers of win-
scattered sparks high above ■
After each rocket died away
mate held a blue flare aloft tin
masts, rigging and the surro
ing sea were lit with a c .
ghostly light. And every twenty
seconds the beam from the g
house swung across us.
beam was the worst of an,
cause it not only, lit «P °‘
scared faces, but it seeltl . re
mock us. There were men >
tending that light, and they
either sound asleep or j
pletely indifferent, for n , *
our signals was
We were wasting a lot of ene w
o Continued on poB e


Song of a Journey
1. Brigalow Country
by JUDITH WRIGHT
When the metal-blue moon
plays tunes on the hut-roof,
and the long slope darkens
with its brigalow tribe,
then Margery dances,
awkward as an emu—
dances for the useless coin of the
moon.
Haunted and alone
with the tribe of the brigalows,
their steel-colored leaves
as curved as a skinning-knife,-
her sidelong eye
as queer as the moonlight
Margery dances
to the singing of the dingoes.
Living lost and lonely
with the tribe of the brigalows,
don’t want to stay
but never can go—
never get no money
for when I go hungry,
never get no kisses
for when I feel sad—
rooted like the brigalows
until I’m dead.
When the bright tin moon
plays tunes on the hut-roof,
Margery dances
in her long pale hair,
and the tribe of the brigalows
stand in their shadows
like still black water,
and watch her there.
2. Carnarvon Gorge
Carnarvon Creek
and cliffs of Carnarvon,
your tribes are silent —
I will sing for you;
each phrase
the size of a stone,
a red stone,
a white stone,
a grey
and a purple,
a parrot’s cry
from a blossoming tree,
a scale of water
and wavering light—
each word a sigh
to set on your cliffs,
each phrase a stone
to lie in your waters.
A white orchid
from the cave’s shade,
a fish from your water
clearer than green- —
I shall take these two
in exchange for a song,
Carnarvon Creek
and cliffs of Carnarvon.
3. Night
The contours of night are like
the contours of this rock,
and worn by light as by water.
The pin-sharp stars drag
their thin bright trails across it;
the moon’s pale creeks and the floods
of the sunlight erode it,
and round its secret flanks
the currents of the living—
plant, beast, man and god—
swirl their phosphorescence.
Night is what remains
when the equation is finished.
Night is the earth’s dream
that the sun is dead;
night is man’s dream
that he has invented god—
the dream of before-creation,
the dream of falling.
Night blocks our way, saying
—I, at least, am real.
The contours of night are like
the contours of this rock.
4. Mount Mary
The solitary mountain is as tall as grief—
a figure in an estranged landscape, drawing
her biblical blue cloak across her shoulders.
Age and the sun have worn her barren —
even the one small creek of her tears is drying;
and the crows haunt her, crying her name,
like birds blackened by hellfire; crying and flying.
The mountain sits among rocks, and over her head
noonday's white skull-moon hangs dead.
Nothing is left for her to dream on, virgin
and widow, except the few small pools of her tears,
rock-bound and sunk, that will not reach the sea.
But by those pools I found two trees in flower.
One wept long branches full of withering stars,
and one, naked of leaves, held up a crown;
a great fierce blossom yellow as the sun
taken out of the sky at his heat’s thirsty noon.
5. The Prospector
Full moon’s too bright for sleeping;
I’ll watch her rise
on the range where no bird’s speaking
except in the crow’s voice—
on the land to be won by love only;
and here there’s none,
but the fire’s black kiss and the lonely
print of skull and bone,
v
Rise up and walk, old skeleton.
But no; lie still.
Let no phase of the moon disturb you,
no heats recall.
Let the bones dream on, the kind dream
that was their last —
dream the mirage’s river
has quenched the world’s thirst.
Full moon’s too bright for sleeping;
too white the sky;
and foreign to this country
restless I lie.
But you, moon, you’re no stranger.
You’re known here, moon—
drawing your mad hands over
rock, dust and bone.
6. Cane Country
The colored girl leans on the bridge
and folds her sorrow into her breast.
Her face is a dark and downward mirror
where her eyes look, and are lost.
The old land is marshalled under
the heavy regiment of green cane;
but by the lagoon the paper-barks
stand in their blank and tattered parchment
and wait for some unknown inscription
which love might make in black-ink water. y
And in that water the great lily
sets her perfect dusk-blue petals
in the inherited order of prayer
around that blazing throne her centre;
where time shall touch eternity
and their prayer shall find its answer.
7. Sea-beach
Rock and wall and tree
bear witness against our lives,
being scrawled with obsolete slogans,
initialled by clumsy knives—
no one has marked the sea.
Below high tide you can stand
as though you stood in the sky.
No sign on the clean sand
will stay to remember you by.
Sea, anonymous pilgrim
made free of time and space,
from the unhistoried poles,
the shores of Asia and Greece
you carry no memory,
you bring no sign and no gift,
except the unrecognised bone,
the silver splinter of raft.
And though you beckon and play,
we will not stay here long;
we will snatch back the child
who trusts too far to your song.
The sea cleans everything,
a sailor said to me;
but these white empty shells
come out of the scour of the sea.


YOUR BATTERY
Can Last Forever
With regular use of “CELL-PEP”
(TWICE Yearly)
MB. A. C. HTFUELD, Longfleld
Street, Stawell West (Victoria),
writes: “My batteries were played
out and would not take a charge.
On adding ‘CELL-PEP’ these bat-
teries are now fully charged and
holding the charge as new.”
Your Battery Lasts Lpnger and
Gives More Power with
“CELL-PEP” BATTERY
REJUVENATOR
“CELL-PEP” removes sulphate from
the plates and prevents further sul-
phating. Freed of sulphate the lead
in the plates reacts with the sul-
phuric acid in the battery and the
flow of electricity is restored to
normal.
THE BATTEBT WILL HOLD A
CHABGE LONGEB
IN TEN MINUTES you can prove
that “CELL-PEP” saves you big
money. Hundreds of testimonials
received from satisfied users.
Large size treats 13 batteries for a
i year for 35/9
| Lighting Plant size 37/6
FREIGHT FREE
MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES
(Australia)
Box 844, 6.P.0., Sydney.
OLINDA —Victoria
“BlRCHLElGH”—Children's Guest House.
Children 6-9 years during school hoM J •
Other times any age. Spacious g.
with adequate equipment and 6uperyi ■
School near-by for long:term boo g ■
MISSES FRASER—Telephone Olinda 80.
CRIPPLING 0
RHEUMATIC
MINS
quickly eased with
9XO
mu «*“
5S
f<SS
Dolcln, the result of
five years. Intensive
medical research has
brought relief to
thousands of suf-
ferers of complaints
within the Rheumatic
Groups. Dolcln gives
prompt and pro-
longed relief from the
painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, N u
Lumbago, Fibrosltls, Gout,
. DOLCIN is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by me
. UotoOMOO tablets have bMM d
ministered throughout the « |e ,
. DOLCIN is easy to take m
. DOLCIN Is obtainable from your
chemist. '
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/4
in cursing them when the mate
roared for us to start getting the
boats away.
<‘ I F it was dangerous and
t uncomfortable aloft it was
a damned sight worse on deck,
where we were exposed to the
full force of the breaking seas,
You can imagine what it was
like trying to get the boats away,
There were two on top of the
deckhouse for’ard, and while we
were struggling with them the
fore - t’gallant - mast went. It
carried away just as the revolving
beam of light swung past, so
that the effect was of a solid
illuminated beam swinging
against the mast, toppling it over
and bringing it down in a tangle
of yards and rigging. We
jumped clear, but both boats
were stove -in ; by falling
wreckage. And then, satisfied
with the damage it had done, the
beam passed on.
“The mizzen-mast went next,
How no one was killed by those
crashing yards I don’t know,
except that Fate wasn’t handing
out such easy deaths to the old
Seymore’s crew that night. She
had other, far worse, plans. We
got the only serviceable boat
away under appalling conditions,
There was no time to save any-
thing. We tied lifejackets on,
piled into her and pushed off,
clawing our way through the
tangled wreckage of the mizzen
in our hurry to get clear before
the main-mast crashed down on
us. To say that we were over-
loaded would be putting it
mildly. The whole ship’s com-
pany—twenty-eight men—was
crowded into a boat meant to
carry twelve; and there wasn’t
even room to pull an oar with-
out jobbing someone in the back
°r r ‘ bs ; ,
Rightly, I suppose, the Old
Man decided to lay off till day-
light, when we could look around
for a possible landing-place,
Certainly it would have been
sheer madness to attempt a land-
ing in the dark. The distant
booming of surf on rocks told us
that. We struggled clear of the
ship and pulled seaward with
short lubberly strokes. The light-
house was dead astern, flashing
its steady beam round and
round, round and round.
“If we’d drawn lots to see
which watch stayed in the boat
while the other went over the
side we might have fared much
better. Fourteen men would
have stood a good chance of
keeping the boat head-on to the
seas whereas twenty-eight, all
wearing lifejackets, had none.
We were too cramped to pull
properly too overloaded for the
necessary buoyancy. Someone
broke an oar and toppled back-
wards, immobilising the next oar
and knocking half of us off
balance. Next moment we were
broadside-on to a big comber.
“You don’t get much time for
thinking when things go wrong
in an open boat. Before we
could sort ourselves out the wave
crashed down and rolled ours
clean over. Twenty-two of us
survived that capsize. We clung
to the bottom of the upturned
boat, too intent on trying to
retain a hold to even wonder
what had happened to our ship-
mates. They had gone
vanished in the darkness —and if
we thought about them at all it
was to feel thankful that their
going had left a little more room
for us. God knows we needed
every inch of it. We must have
waited several hours for day-
light clinging there half-
submerged, with the seasi break-
ing over us. And all the time the
beam from that cursed light-
house kept swinging round and
round, round and round. It was
maddening—that damned ‘aid
to seamen,’ lighting us up with
monotonous regularity every
twenty seconds and then passing
on, as if it had just paused to
see how many of us were left, but
didn’t really give a hoot one way
or the other. The strange thing
was that we never got any closer
to the light. Evidently some set
of the current prevented the seas
from washing us ashore.
“Believe me, it isn’t easy to
cling to the rounded bottom of
a boat in breaking seas. There
were only twenty of us left when
daylight came. The Old Man
asserted himself then, and under
his directions we set to work to
turn the boat over. There’d be
oars jammed underneath it, he
said, and once we got the water
out of her we could pull for the
shore. In the grey dawn the
island showed up as a series of
grim-looking cliffs with breakers
pounding heavily against them.
We could see the battered
remains of our ship, and, away
in the distance, the dim outline
of the mainland. The sight of
so much land cheered us
Wonderfully. Even the light-
house looked friendly now,
perched up there on the cliff-top,
scarcely more than a mile away.
li \\ /E got the boat righted at
« V last. And instead of oars
we found four dead men. Poor
devils, they must have been
trapped there when the boat
capsized, imprisoned and
drowned by the buoyancy of the
lifebelts that were meant to save
them. When he realised what
had happened Petersen tore his
lifejacket off and tossed it away.
‘lt don’t happen to me,’ he said.
Mine followed. I was a good
swimmer, and, like Petersen, I
felt that there were better ways
of dying than being trapped
under an overturned lifeboat.
“The Old Man ordered some
of us to climb in and dump the
bodies overboard. The boat was
awash, of course, full to the gun-
wales, but we had hopes of
bailing her out. We’d dumped
two of the bodies, and were
hoisting the third over the gun-
wales when the Old Man ordered
us to belay.
“ ‘Pull his boots off first,’ he
said. ‘They’ll come in handy for
bailing.’
“The man, a big German
named Shultz, was wearing long
leather sea-boots. Petersen held
the body on the gunwale while
another man and I struggled to
get the boots off. It may have
been our clumsiness, coupled
with the fact that most of the
men were in the water clinging
to that side of the boat, or it
may have been inevitable. What-
ever the cause, the boat turned
over again. Petersen and I felt
her going and we dived clear.
Some of our shipmates,
hampered by their lifebelts, were
not so lucky, for when I
struggled back to the boat we
numbered only sixteen.
“Sixteen men clinging to the
bottom of an upturned boat.
Well, at least there was more
room. That’s the effect such a
fight for existence has on you.
You’re too busy looking out for
yourself to think about your
unfortunate shipmates. I never
noticed that the two apprentices
of my watch were missing till I
saw their dead bodies when we
righted the boat. Throughout
the whole nightmare experience
Petersen was the one man who
really registered with ma. I
clung to him, followed his every
move and did as he did. He was
so big and powerful, so indestruc-
tible. All through I, had the
feeling that he was the one man
who could survive the ordeal.
If he went it was the end for
all of us. For me the others
had ceased to exist as indi-
viduals ; they were just a mass
of clinging humanity.
“Individuals! I didn't even
realise that our captain was no
longer with us till I looked down
into the water. He was lying
right underneath me, athwart the
stern of the boat, his head and
shoulders protruding and his eyes
staring straight up into mine.
The sight of that fixed, accusing
stare nearly finished me. I
began to retch, spewing feebly
into the water above his face,
until Petersen came to my help.
He put one of his big hands on
my shoulder and lowered himself
into the water. And then, grop-
ing with his feet, he forced the
body down and out so that it
floated to the surface a few feet
astern.
“Dignity in death! The man
who thought that one up never
saw a drowned sailor. The Old
Man floated face downwards,
his lifejacket and the seat of his
pants the only thing showing
above water. There’s nothing
dignified about that. And every
other man who gave up and
drifted away during that day
looked the same —a glimpse of
a lifejacket and a protruding
stern.
‘ ‘ W ES, a lot more went before
t nightfall—'some struggling
feebly to regain their holds, but
most of them just drifting quietly
off. After a while we could tell
a man was going by the color
of his face. He turned blue—a
pale-blue at first, gradually
darkening to an almost blackish
tinge. Then he drifted off,
bottom upwards. It wasn’t really
cold. 1 think most of the men
went from sheer exhaustion, the
physical strain of trying to
retain a hold against the buffet-
ing o. the seas. Being right at
the stern I could get a better
grip of the keel than any of the
others. Also I had the partial
protection of Petersen’s great
bulk.
“There were eight of us left
when we sighted the German
steamer. Evidently someone had
seen our distress-signals, and she
had been sent out to look for us,
for she stood straight on towards
the remains of the old Seymore.
She came close to us —so close
that we could see the officers on
her bridge, all focusing their
glasses on the deserted wreck.
We waved and we shouted.
Petersen stood up, and, balanc-
ing himself on the keel, waved
both arms and shouted with the
volume of a foghorn. It was
useless. The men on that steamer
were looking for survivors on
the wreck itself, not searching
the surrounding sea.
“One man went mad then.
Hoarse from shouting he still
had enough voice left to curse
the searching ship horribly. And
then, in the middle of a string of
oaths, he slid into the water and
struck out for the ship. That
was the last we saw of him.
“The steamer didn’t waste
much time in the vicinity of the
wreck. Evidently satisfied that
there were ’no survivors she
steamed away to the nor’ard.
Her departure was the signal for
three more men to let go. They
weren’t washed off. They simply
gave up in despair. Apparently
one man regretted it, for he
struggled desperately to regain
the boat. He was a coal-black
negro from the West Indies, the
only man who didn’t change
color with approaching death.
His struggles didn’t last for long,
but instead of drifting away he
remained about thirty, feet astern
with his head above water, fac-
ing us, so that we could see the
white eyeballs protruding from
his black face. It was some time
before we realised that the boat’s
painter was trailing astern and
that the nigger was clinging to it.
“Petersen let go then. I thought
the end had come and that he,
too, was giving up till I saw
him groping about in the water
for the painter. When he found
it he clambered back and hauled
it in hand-over-hand. His action
gave me a fresh lease of life. I
felt that if he had strength
enough to save a shipmate the
least I could do was to help
him. But the nigger was dead
when we got him in. I think
Petersen had known it before
he started hauling. In any case
he wasn’t interested in dead or
dying men ; it was the painter
he wanted. He unlocked the
black fingers and let the body
drift away. The next moment he
was back in the water, slipping
a bight of the rope around the
boat. Four round-turns he took
before diving under the boat and
making the end secure to the
after-thwart. And all the time
we just clung to the keel, watch-
ing him and wondering what his
idea was. When he climbed
back again he took a half-turn in
each bight of the rope and
helped each of us to slip into a
loop. The fourth turn he eased
over his own immense shoulders.
We were now moderately secure,
able to sit astride the keel, each
held in position by a rope girdle.
“As Petersen said ‘Ve now
stay mit her.’ Wherever she went
we’d go. If she was washed
ashore we’d be washed up, too,
dead or alive. Petersen reached
back and drew my two hands
under his armpits. ‘You hang
to me, Yack,’ he said. ‘So.’
THE live warmth of his big
back aroused me to an
awareness of my remaining ship-
mates, and for the first time I
noticed that I was the only
Britisher left alive. There was a
Norwegian named Taraldsen, a
German named Malitz and, of
course, Petersen the Swede. We
sat athwart the keel in that order
with Taraldsen for’ard and me
right aft. Taraldsen, Malitz,
Petersen and Johnstone. We
dined just before darkness set in
—on a plug of tobacco Petersen
fished from his hip-pocket. He
bit it into four parts and gave
one to each of us. Originally a
piece of rank sailor’s-twist, it
had been so long under salt-
water that most of the taste had
gone out of it. But we ate it.
We were so miserable and hungry
we’d have eaten anything—any-
thing to start the flow of saliva
and put something in our empty
bellies.
“With darkness the cursed
revolving light came on again.
It seemed as if we’d never get
away from the thing. Round
and round it went fainter and
further off than it had been last
night, but still clearly visible.
God, I still shudder when I look
at a revolving light! And I still
smile when I hear people com-
plaining about being hungry. I
ate the shoulder-straps off my
oilskin trousers that night,
chewed them up bit by bit and
even managed to swallow some.
I wasn’t thinking of strips of oil-
skin while I was chewing ; I was
thinking of bacon and eggs.
Looking down into the water
alongside the boat I saw a plate
of them floating alongside me —
beautiful eggs with glistening
yellow yolks and whites that
curled crisply up where their
edges overlapped the striped
slices of bacon. I could smell
the lovely appetising smell of
bacon sizzling in the pan. But
when I leaned down to grab the
plate Petersen jerked me roughly
back.
“It went on like that all night
till I wanted to curse the big
Swede, sometimes for cheating
me of a beautiful meal, some-
times for not letting me slip off
into painless oblivion. And all
through the night Malitz prayed
aloud. He prayed in German,
in English and probably several
other languages as well, making
sure that God would understand
at least one of the tongues. Over
and over again he confessed his
sins, drunkenness being the chief
one, and promised God that if
He would only save him he’d
never touch another drop of
grog so long as he lived.
“I said a few quiet prayers,
too. And I vowed that if we
were saved I’d buy Petersen the
finest present he could wish for
every time we met, in any port
in the world.
“At daylight we were still
there, Taraldsen, Malitz,
Petersen and Johnstone, roped
athwart the keel of the boat.
We sat in that order and in that
order we appeared in Lloyd's
list of survivors. Taraldsen,
Malitz, Petersen and Johnstone.
i<l NEVER saw the mainland
1 that morning. I remember
only Petersen shaking me as he
cut the rope that held me, and
shouting above the heavy boom-
ing of surf, ‘Ve leave her now,
Yack. Leave her. Swim.’ A
breaker crashed down, dumping
me heavily on a pebbly beach,
and though I clawed at those
pebbles with the desperation of
a drowning cat the wave sucked
me back. It’s amazing and quite
indescribable, the effect the feel
of solid land has on you after
you’ve given up all hope of ever
seeing it again. I was beyond
all caring; and if I had one wish
left in me it was the wish or
longing for death to end my
sufferings.
“Yet, at the feel of those solid
pebbles, the will to live flared
up like magic. I fought with
every ounce of feeble strength
left in me. Another breaker
lifted me high and crashed me
down on the beach with a force
that battered every last bit of
resistance out of me. But this
time I felt strong arms around
me and heard Petersen bellow
above the roar of surf ‘Up you
come. Yack.’ He dumped me
above high-water mark and went
back into the surf for the other
two.
“What a man! What a con-
stitution ! But he did more than
that. He walked inland until he
found a village and he brought
help back to us. Heaven knows
we needed it. Petersen was the
only one who could stand up
unaided.
“A sailor soon forgets his
hardships. Perhaps it’s just as
well, or the owners would" never
have enough men to man their
ships. In Valparaiso we waited
three weeks for a passage home,
and during that time Malitz
never once woof to bed sober.
So much for his promises to his
God. My single promise was
easier to keep. Karl Petersen is
a man of simple tastes. Give him
his favorite brand of gin and
he’ll ask nothing better. Well,
he’ll never go short of it while
I’m alive.”


:•
■■■
"I
i
/
i
: %
I
m
wmm
6
it
* s
1
:
■i
m
»
,i
F
\s
K
I
'» ■■>/- ■Hg& \
<•-... , ks.\ x<
Pill
ii
m
k% '
.yrffcs
',»**♦»** r- S
il
There’s a story in this street . . .
Look around. Three things will impress you
about this street and this town, both so typical of the
many you will find throughout Australia. Firstly, the
people busy, cheerful, friendly. Secondly, the shops
bright, modern, well-stocked. Thirdly, the motor vehicles
that line the footpaths or shelter under the trees.
Let’s take a closer look at those vehicles for that’s
where our story comes from. That new green Vauxhall
sedan. That belongs to Doc. Stewart. He uses it a
lot. Got to, for he covers a lot of territory looking
after the sick and the injured . . . That blue Holden Utility
belongs to young Dave Roberts. He started a hardware
business when he was discharged from the army found
he needed a reliable runabout to keep pace with the
growing demands of his customers. That big Bedford
bus in the centre that’s the one that picks up kiddies
for miles around and takes them to school. That vintage
model Buick on the left is the proud possession of old
Henry Steele. He’s a sort of handyman. Folks reckon
it runs on a ha’porth of petrol and the power of Henry’s
picturesque language. That Chev. truck further down
the street is Bob Carpenter’s. He’s got a farm about
eight miles out and needs something big and tough to
handle his produce . . .
The more you come to look at a street scene like this,
the more you come to realise just how important the
motor industry is in the life of any community how
progress has come to depend more and more on motor
transport. And everywhere you look you will see the
cars, buses, trucks, utilities of the General Motors family
in fact, almost one vehicle in three on our roads today
bears the trade-mark GMH General Motors-
Holden’s.
11
... afia/dm/vm
ENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S limited
BRISBANE SYDNEY « MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH


HIS EXCELLENCY
CLRRIVES
««*T“HERE is not a bottle of
I mango- chutney or
I tabasco-sauce to be had
in Hornsby Junction.”
“There’s not a single chili, not
a pound of rice or Bombay-duck
to be bought in all Mallow’s
Marsh.”
“Indeed no! Not one Trin-
comalee water-biscuit! ”
“Not one tin of Rungamutty
curry - powder! Every
emporium in Parramatta is sold
out! ”
“Even the bumboat woman’s
stall in Little-Peeping-on-the-
Inlet hasn’t a mite of pimento,
not a twist of red-pepper or
ginger! ”
“In Dural, by ten o’clock,
there was not an ounce of
cinnamon or one clove to be
had! ”
“Oh, I do think it has been
fun! We’ve rifled every shop!
And to hear the trot-trot, the
clop-clop of all the hooves on
every track and highroad!
Every dogcart, gig, victoria and
phaeton has been on the jog-
trot since daylight! Oh, we have
been pleasantly agog, haven’t
we?”
IN the grounds of Carefree
I Farm, some eight miles from
Parramatta, the syllabub-party,
by Mrs. (Phineas) McCree, was
in full swing. Every member of
her family had been invited, but,
unfortunately, only the ladies
found themselves able to accept;
a feat even for them in so wild a
time of excitement, when every
housekeeper in those happy
regions was hopefully laying in a
stock of comestibles likely to
appeal to a palate seasoned in the
East.
The reason? To the
(tempered) • joy of the
Boisragon family, together
with its collaterals, the
McCrees, McMurthies, Wirra-
ways and Thistledews, their
dependants, relations - by-
marriage and convict servants
(pensioned off for the great part
now and given rank as
“retainers”), no less a person
than Sir Jeremiah Willing-Toper,
K.C.8., Companion of the Most
Refulgent Order of the Tri-
Shackti-Patti, of Kathmundhu,
Member (Tenth-class) of the
Sacred Order of the Tripod
(Shanghai, 1839), had been
appointed Governor of New
South Wales.
Sir Jeremiah, who had been
for the past thirty years (or was
it forty?) a distinguished soldier
in the East India Company’s
service in Madras, where he was
at present Governor of Fort St.
George, was the eighteenth son
of that grandfather of Mrs.;
(Phineas) McCree’s whose recipe
for “nyppe” she had brewed and
tried out on the bishop.
“Of course we are all sorry to
lose dear Sir Charles. He has
always shown such tact, and has
never once disagreed with his
Premier.”
The chant, here, was taken up
by a more mature group
ensconced under the shade of the
massive auricadas below the
brow of the hill, for it was not
considered “nice” for unmarried
women or girls to speak about
the Governor-emeritus.
“He has indeed been, as the
Duke of Buckingham once
remarked of his ancestor. King
Charles the Second, ‘the father
of his people.’ ”
Mrs. (James) McMurthie, who,
having a sailor husband, was not
mealy-mouthed, added with a
challenging look at Mrs.
(Augustus) Wirraway (who was),
“The Stuart nose is to be seen
running well in front of many a
little toddler in the quieter
villages round the metropolis,”
This was perfectly true. It
was the reason that many people
considered a change advisable.
THE natural excitement of the
Boisragon family on finding
so near a relative was to succeed
Sir Charles, and to represent his
sovereign, took, on this gratify-
ing occasion, an epistolary
character. Everyone wrote to
everyone else; but the letter
written by Lady Brattle, whose
husband. Sir Jahleel Brattle, had
been promoted an admiral,
knighted for his services in de-
feating the Russian fleet in the
recent war, and appointed to the
Madras station, brought to the
home circle in Parramatta the
first authentic, personal news of
their kinsman.
The syllabub-party was given,
chiefly, that all might hear this
letter, and Mrs. (Phineas) Mc-
Cree, its recipient, quite de-
claimed it, so excited was she, to
her circle of guests, who included
all those more closely connected
with her; the inner ring as it
were.
“We found Sir Jeremiah,” she
read dramatically, “installed m
great splendor in Government
House, Madras, in the neighbor-
hood of which maritime city, on
the Coromandel coast, my
dearest Jahleel is engaged in his
usual occupation of ‘bottling-up’
someone or other’s fleet! / hear
a good many corks popping all
the same !”
Happy laughter greeted this
sally (“Dear Loveday has such a
sense of humor”), and when it
had subsided Mrs. Phineas
resumed:
“Oh, my dear, I think we can
feel perfectly safe, completely at
our ease about Jeremiah!
Nothing could excel his dignity,
his good looks or his oratorial
ability !”
A sigh of relief, the merest
of zephyrs, coming from her
thirty listeners was just sufficient
to agitate the buttercups. It was
a glorious day in early summer.
Behind the radiant group now
gathered round Mrs. McCree,
the white farmhouse basked on
its hilltop. All' those impedi-
menta, vehicles for the procrea-
tion of life, with which she habi-
tually surrounded herself, were
vocal with content. The cocks
crowed, the hens clucked, the
ducks quacked, the geese honked,
the turkeys
gobbled, the pigs
grunted, the
cattle lowed, the
horses neighed;
it all sounded in-
expressibly profit-
able. And the
prosperous sounds
were just far
enough removed to be a sign
of wealth, a reassurance and not
an interruption.
“This last gift of eloquence,”
Mrs. McCree continued,
“Jeremiah exercised most nobly
on the arrival of our fleet in
Madras harbor, when he paid my
dearest Jahleel and his ‘Jack-tars’
many well-deserved compliments,
and on this occasion, too, he
looked his own, truly regal self
to perfection ! Our minds may
be at rest! He will do the family
credit!”
Fans fluttered. Pleased
glances were exchanged. The
gala air with which the party
already vibrated was further
accentuated by the arrival of
Cook Teresa, Minnie, Gussy,
Betsy, Anna and two men-
servants, who carried out the
tables, and duly set down in
sparkling crystal-glasses the
frothy syllabub; another
Willing-Toper recipe.
“It is very simply made,
dear,” Mrs. McCree whispered
to Mrs. (Cedric) Wirraway, while
awaiting a fresh hearing. “Leave
the lemon-peel soaking all night
in the sherry, next day add a just
proportion of French brandy
and insinuate, very delicately, the
whipped cream.”
Taking the hint, everyone
insinuated, very delicately, the
whipped cream. Not forgetting
the sherry and brandy, in pleas-
ing partnership. And of course
the lemon.
“Dear Jeremiah,” Mrs. Mc-
Cree made haste to read on,
“is an unfaltering teetotaller,
and does not take after dear
grandpapa in any way. I know
you will read this assurance with
relief, so I venture to mention it,
purely for family ears; it might
do the dear man harm if so strict
an abstinence got about.”
Mrs. McCree, pausing here;
gathered in the eyes of her
enthralled audience. One of the
many charms of family life is the
wealth of knowledge to be
relished in common, any open
reference to which is unneces-
sary, except, perhaps, in
luxurious innuendo, for a mutual
savoring of its richness. As, on
this occasion, some thirty ladies
drank deeply of each other’s
unspoken memories, the un-
teetotal career of their ancestor
unrolled itself before their
flinching imaginations. Dear
Loveday’s candor had been
welcome. Murmurs of satisfac-
tion were expressed on all sides.
ON so lovely a day, everyone
wore a new dress in order
to do honor to so aggrandised a
family; the bustles, frills, fur-
belows, pleats and flares must
have accounted for hundreds of
yards of tarleton, illusion, nain-
sook, barege Isabelle and dimity.
Mrs. (Roland) Wirraway was
resplendent in a Paris model
which, to everyone’s horror, had
cost her all of fifteen shillings.
At least two gross of the new
curls, brought last week from
London by the brig Rose, one of
Captain (James) McMurthie’s
ships, clustering round each
beaming face, certainly brought
an air of youth and fashion to
pork-pie hat, coalscuttle bonnet
and Dolly Varden alike.
Syllabub was sipped. Pikelets
were trifled with. In all the chit-
chat, the laughter of this gay,
gay gathering, anyone versed in
psychology might have detected
a note of fear, an underlying
apprehension, a perception,
barely hidden, that, in the Bois-
ragon woodpile, there lurked,
indubitably, a nigger. The next
pages of Loveday’s letter were
awaited with so plain an anxiety.
“At the State banquet, at the
close of the gala week’s festivi-
ties, Jeremiqh, on whose right I
sat as chief lady {!), was most
interesting on the subject of the
storming of Seringapatam, at
wjiich he had been present, and
he gave me many hitherto un-
published details about the
treachery of the Rajah of Vizna-
patam and ...”
Mrs, McCree perceptibly
skipped. She rustled through
three or four pages. Details,
even if hitherto unpublished, of
the battle of Seringapatam, were
not the “bits” awaited with such
palpable eagerness! That was
evident! Mrs. McCree found
her place. She looked meaningly
over the top of the paper at her
particular crony, Mrs. (Augus-
tus) Wirraway.
“As for dear Cora herself!”
A gusty sigh went up. This
was what everyone was waiting
to hear about!
“I cannot disguise from you
that Corporal Cora, as we
always used to call her in the
old days, is as she always
was ! She is as we have
ALWAYS KNOWN HER TO BE!”
Agonised glances were
exchanged.
“We went on board the flag-
ship to dine with Sir Jason
Popham” (at the mention of
Loveday’s old flame how the eyes
sidled round!), “and Corporal
Cora, after one bite of her
mutton, laid down her knife and
fork and beckoned to the
steward. ‘My good man! You
cannot deceive me! This is
goat-flesh! It is not mutton!’
And then, oh, my dear! One of
those scenes which used to
distress us in the old days was
in a moment in full swing! At
the admiral’s own table! She!
His chief guest! Our cheeks
were dyed red with shame when
she actually insisted on the cook
being sent for ! She dressed him
down! She taxed him with
‘cheating’! With overcharging!
‘What,’ said she, ‘has become of
the money that represents the
difference in price between goat-
flesh and mutton—tell me that,
now !’ I regret to tell you that,
as always, Jeremiah merely
looked amused. I think he is
actually proud of her.’’
“It is easy to realise,” Mrs.
(Eustace) Wirraway remarked,
“how it is that one rejoices with
such trepidation over Jeremiah's
appointment.”
Mrs. McCree read on,
“I can hold out no hope for
you, dearest, of any improvement
in Corporal Cora’s wayward and
extraordinary nature. I foresee
many moments when you will
pray for the earth to open and
swallow you up! She provokes
such scenes. Yet, strangely
enough, she is popular! She
makes life interesting! She
arrives—and no one knows what
will happen next!”
K/j RS. McCREE folded up her
letter. The success or
failure of Corporal Cora as chief
lady in New South Wales was,
to the Boisragon family, of more
than social interest. - She had
been a Thistledew from Gander’s
Pond, and, in that branch, there
were now no fewer than twelve
girls ripe for marriage; some
almost overripe. It had been
hoped that their cou§jnship with
the Governor’s wife might have
helped them to husbands. . .but
now! Who could say?
Discussing this and other
subjects of equal interest, for
their family life was too rich in
incident to permit one topic to
engross attention for overlong,
Mrs. McCree’s guests wandered
and wondered ; they planned and
wrestled together with all the
thousand and one questions per-
taining to the branches to which
they belonged ; they hinted, they
gossiped, those questing women,
until a conversation between
Mrs. (Edward) McMurthie, Mrs.
(Augustus) Wirraway and (Miss)
Fragrance Thistledew, a sister of
Mrs. Edward, hinged on Dr.
Peter Boisragon and his loss of
“poor Letty.”
They referred in a muted key
to his wife’s death, on giving
birth to her twentieth child.
Only three of her offspring had
lived. It was really rather sad.
“Poor Peter! Inevitably, he
must marry again!”
“If only for the childrens
sakes! ”
Since Fragrance was thirty, a
possible bride only for widowers,
it was felt to be untactful to
dwell too long, in her presence,
on Dr. Boisragon’s loss. l al ,
veered to Loveday Boisragon s
wooing, . c .
“Such a whirlwind affair! bn
met Jahleel down at the Ink
one evening. He called nex
morning, with the most absur
array of gifts! ” „ ~
“Indeed, yes!” Mrs. (Tobias)
McCree laughed, joining th
trio, “I witnessed his arriva ■
He brought a canary, a P arr ° ’
a length of brocade, a fan, so
scent and a coral locket! A
when dear Loveday (with sU
a saucy air) had acceptsd tn
all, and had even allowed
Captain Brattle, as he was tn >
to tie the locket round her nec ,
he fished a wedding-ring oU
his vest-pocket, and looked
by ETHEL
ANDERSON
THE WHITE HORSE
I’ve grown up with the horse on the hill
in the paddock of grass and briars
with three tall pines and a wire-latch gate:
the horse and I have grown up late.
The white old horse like a sheet on a line
is blown or runs in the wind.
I’ve seen him morning and after school;
but the horse is quiet and I’m the fool.
The white horse stays with the sun and
the frost
in the paddock on the hill.
Morning and night he stands by the fence
and only stares with his light-pool glance.
The horse is there when I come from school
on the hill with the fence and the wire-latch
gate.
I am sorry I know
he’ll be gone one day: perhaps tomorrow.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J, W. DUNLOP, A. H. DIOKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
To ensure
quiet and
efficient
operation
hospital lifts
are usually
OTIS
if
;
j§ H . J
■
- V.
■ Mt'M r v ' :
|: \ ishi m’M H m
w
mmmmmw
mmmm
mmm
Built to extend existing hospital service, St. Margaret’s new
building features every modern convenience to make hospitalisation
pleasant and working conditions ideal. Of course, the lifts are by
Otis because their superiority in design, workmanship and perform-
ance are proven facts and mean dependability at all times. The lifts
at St. Margaret’s are the very latest Otis and include 2 High Speed
Gearless Bed Passenger Elevators, 1 High Speed Staff Elevator and 2
Service Lifts, providing the utmost in fast, safe, vertical transportation.
ST. MARGARETS
HOSPITAL,
Sydney, N.S.W .
® Architect: Department of Public
Works, N.S.W.
9 Builder: T. C. Whittle Pty. Ltd .
p
rm
m
u*
?
ELEVATOR
IE
V!
(Incorporated in Victoria) rTY. LTD,
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART
NEWCASTLE
in the eye without speaking. And
she merely glanced at the clock
and said ‘lt’s ten o’clock! I
can’t possibly be ready bdfore
eleven! ’”
“Such goings-on!”
BUT then came the moment
for which the carriages had
been ordered.
Man Thomas, Ike Peachy and
the two new menservants now
employed at Carefree Farm,
who, as hosts, had been enter-
taining the ten or twelve visiting
coachmen and grooms in the
servants’ hall, where Cook
Teresa had dispensed a luxuriant
hospitality—they had sat down
twenty-seven all told now
brought round, first, the phaetons,
victorias and governess-carts
which the ladies themselves were
to drive, and, next, the grander
equipages presided over by
coachmen and footmen to
whirl away, one and all, in great
style, on the eight-mile drive to
Parramatta, the ten-mile round
to Gander’s Pond, the six-mile
spin to Mallow’s Marsh (but
everyone thought dear Juliet
should not do that alone),
and to all the other delicious
nooks and crannies where the
Boisragon family had its habita-
tions, over all that wide and
triumphant countryside.
The party broke up with a
great chat and clatter ; everyone
was perfectly happy except for
a lurking terror of all that Cor-
poral Cora might say or do
when she became chief lady in
the State of New South Wales.
AT last the day of his Excel-
\ \ lency’s arrival came. The
rising town of Parramatta was,
on that historic date, indeed en
fete. Bunting flew from the
premises of Mr. Bones the
butcher’s, Mr. Bun the baker’s,
Mr. Chips the carpenter’s, and
Mr. Coupe the wheelwright and
carriage-maker’s.
Both grocers’ and both linen-
drapers’ emporiums had flags
suspended from shop to shop
right across the road; for, sink-
ing all rivalries, they were
united in loyalty to the Throne
and in their reverence for her
Majesty’s representative, for
whose custom they hoped. The
bells of St. Canice’s-in-the-Vale,
of St. Stylites-in-the-Inlet, of
St. Hilarious -in - the - Marsh,
of St. Osyth-on-the-Hill, and, of
course, of the twin towers in the
noble church of Parramatta it-
self, rang jubilantly. Triplets,
grandsire - triples, bob - royals,
bob-minors, bob-majors, rounds
and changes, peals and caters
trilled out from every steeple for
miles around ; every belfry and
belcot rocked with uproarious
delight.
The Mayor and aldermen of
Parramatta and the surround-
ing towns, dressed in their official
robes, waited on the lawn in
front of Government House on
a platform bedecked with three
pots of maidenhair-fern, lent by
Mrs. (Augustus) Wirraway, who
desired to remain anonymous,
and a palm that had been
washed in milk and ticketed
Kindly loaned by Mr. Josh
Boots, Nurseryman, 12 Tank
Stream-street, Sydney, Business
Hours 9 till 6, a label which,
every time Alderman Bush
(Nurseryman, Parramatta)
turned it plain-side out Mr. Josh
Boots, climbing onto the plat-
form, rearranged with its legend
plainly seen.
The (very dirty) Italian organ-
grinder, said to be of royal
blood, who had a hurdy-gurdy
and a performing monkey,
ground out the tune “Home to
Our Mountains” from behind a
pine-tree, where, the music being
considered cheerful, he was
allowed harborage, while the
monkey took round the hat.
The hokey-pokey man, with
his handbell and his wistful cry
of “Hokey-pokey, penny-a-
lump!”, his red - and - white
striped gondola, with its twisted
pillars of shining brass, its two
brass canisters full of ices, pink
and white, shining, too, having
been ordered off the lawn by an
officious policeman (the local
policeman had been reinforced
by brethren from Sydney,
“Peelers,” in new uniforms) did
a brisk trade on the gravel drive,
which he claimed was a right-
of-way, among children and
adults alike.
Orange Moll’s great-grand-
daughter, for reason understood
by her regular customers, had
deputed the blacksmith’s son to
market her wares, and by the
time the vice-regal carriage was
expected to sweep round the
street-corner and turn into the
flower-wreathed drive every
moneyed spectator who was not
sucking a lump of hokey-pokey
was enjoying a juicy orange.
I T was a day of unusual heat,
l even for mid-summer. There
was no wind.
Girls from the Female Fac-
tory, orphans from three
orphanages, the boys and girls,
between the ages of eight and
twelve, from both “reforma-
tories,” the ancients from the
male and female almshouses
were all present in closely-knit
ranks, partly as a free treat,
partly to advertise the charit-
able activities of the municipal
council. Some philanthropist,
who also desired to remain
anonymous, had given each one
of these objects of benevolence
an orange.
The platforms on which the
mayors and aldermen and repre-
sentative citizens were assembled
faced west. There had been a
good deal of discussion about
this. On first noticing its posi-
tion at the rehearsal the Mayor
had said that he, for one, would
not make his speech with the
sun in his eyes. The ladies pre-
sent riposted by saying that,
unless they sat with their backs
to the sun, they would bring
their sunshades; in which case
no one would see anything of
the ceremony.
Since it was felt that Sir
Jeremiah and his consort, com-
ing from the east, would be used
to the glare of a mid-summer
sun, and since the Mayor and
his friends found that they
could evade the worst incon-
venience of it by sitting side-
ways, facing their Excellencies,
the platform was left in its
original position facing due
west. The ladies agreed to leave
their parasols at home and bring
fans.
There was, below the plat-
form, a band. There was,
stringed out along the drive, a
detachment of the Castle Hill
Volunteers. The menfolk, on
this rare outing, accompanied
their wives, mothers and sisters.
Among a hundred other
families the men of the Bois-
ragon clan, by reason of their
good looks and fine physique,
were outstanding. Luckily a
good many of its sailors were
in port; there was Captain
(James) McMurthie, of the
Rose, a brig of forty tons, trad-
ing between London and Syd-
ney—and not too seaworthy ;
there were Edward and Elias, his
sons, who now sailed their own
schooner to the islands and
back ; and also two other seafar-
ing McMurthies, midshipmen in
the Fly and Rattlesnake, now in
harbor.
Two young McCrees and
seven Wirraways, just back from
service in the Crimea, wore
famous uniforms, and looked
delightfully battleworn and hir-
sute in bushy beards and new
“Dundreary” whiskers ; the first
to be seen in their home town.
Judge Thistledew, as an uncle
of Lady Willing-Toper’s,
naturally drove over from
Sydney.
There were some scores of
schoolboys, McCrees, Mc-
Murthies, Thistledews, Wirra-
ways and Boisragons; some
from The King’s School, some
from Mr. “Enid” Homer’s select
classical academy for the sons
of gentlemen in Surry Hills.
The several doctors were all
dramatically called away at peak
moments. The church was well
represented. Dear Mr. McCree,
at 89, went from group to group
greeting many people he had
christened or married, or even,
as he thought, buried; his
memory not being what it had
been. There were, of course,
men from the land; and
bankers; hardly a profession
was not represented by one or
another branch of that numer-
ous clan.
AT three o’clock distant cheers
from the sightseers lining
the street were heard announc-
ing that the cortege was now
“proceeding” through Parra-
matta ; and within a few minutes
the two outriders and escort of
mounted police, with such
superb horses, had swept
through the gates at a brisk trot,
followed by the open carriage-
and-pair in which sat,' bowing
and smiling most graciously,
and with a surprising spon-
taneity, considering that they
had driven some twenty miles,
Sir Jeremiah Willing-Toper and
his “consort,” as everyone per-
sisted in calling her. His staff
followed in a second landau.
The brilliant equipage drew to
a standstill. The band played
“God Save the Queen.” The
whole Boisragon family there
assembled, . after one anxious
glance at their kinsman and
Corporal Cora, drew a breath of
relief. They glowed with pride!
Really ! Dear Jeremiah! Dear
Cora! Oh, they did do the
family credit! Nothing could
exceed their affability or their
calmly regal bearing.
Sir Jeremiah, though a mili-
tary man, wore the uniform of
an admiral as a compliment to
the senior service. This gesture
was considered most tactful, as
there had been continual bicker-
ings between the services during
the last two reigns. His Excel-
lency glittered with medals. A
magenta-sash added color to the
naval blue and gold. His figure
was superb. His profile was
quite, quite perfect, and he made
use of it much as some beauties
make use of a fine pair of eyes,
turning it, with supreme aplomb
first in one direction, then in
another, to the admiration of
all; his smile, however, was
urbanity itself.
The “family” was aware that
Loveday Brattle, whose taste was
impeccable, had helped dear
Cora to choose her toilettes,
which had been fabricated by a
“Durzi,” who, squatting on the
veranda of Government House,
Madras, ha'd sewed with his toes
as well as his fingers. Lady
Willing-Toper, a tall, masterful
creature of commanding pres-
ence and a nose of almost mili-
tary significance, quite took
every woman’s breath away by
appearing in one of the new
crinolines, of which only rumors
had so far reached Sydney. It
was contrived of Dakka muslin
sewn with green and gold
beetles’-wings ; her poke-bonnet
towered with amber plumage.
A Kashmir shawl, a “ring-
wallah,” which would slip
through a wedding-ring, a
cameo-brooch, its subject Diana
teaching Cupid to shoot, yellow
kid gloves and elastic-sided boots
completed a queenly picture.
The two young aides-de-camp
wore the red cloth uniform (with
brassy breast-plates) of the
Bombay Royal Horse Artillery ;
and their brass helmets had,
falling from them, the horse-
hair streamers, dyed red and
white, which, at this date, had
superseded the old ostrich-
feathers ; the High Command
had found that, during a long,
hot battle the feathers lost their
curl; the horsehair, on the con-
trary, could stand up to the
briskest engagement.
The two pink young men
looked so resplendent that a vul-
gar little boy standing near
shouted out, as they stiffly
alighted (their boots reached
high up their thighs):
“ ’Ere comes the Sons of Mars
A’smoking of theer ceegars,”
for which a loyal parent cuffed
him; but he got his laugh.
The heat now exceeded 102
degrees. Sir Jeremiah’s oration,
delivered facing the sun, was all
that the family had hoped for ;
he spoke with such obvious sin-
cerity of his pleasure in seeing
so many happy “and may I say
handsome faces” ; he expressed
his delight in viewing “so
resplendent a galaxy of female
charms” so “brave and manly
a concourse of those heroic
beings who are now privileged
to call themselves Australians.
“How greatly would I have
valued the presence of even
three of such renowned warriors
as the Australians are proving
themselves to be, when I found
myself, almost single-handed,
engaging five thousand of the
troops —picked and seasoned
soldiers—of the treacherous
Rajah of Vizia-naga-ram at the
storming of the Fortress of
Seringapatam.”
A masterly thumbnail sketch
of the battle now followed.
BEFORE his Excellency’s
arrival in Australia a great
many letters, as was customary
and natural, had been exchanged
between him and the various
Government officials concerned
in such appointments ; and on
the morning of the new' Gov-
ernor’s arrival from Madras in
the Surinam Merchant the
Premier of New South Wales
{Continued on page 28)


The worlds favourite
appetiser!
P VERMOUTHS
4 <tPhmoui. Since 1816
SWEET, DRY AND BIANCO
sHPVTH
Serve CINZANO before dinner,
neat or mixed in cocktails.
oszuro
CIN2
This is the text of Archbishop Eris O’Brien’s address to the English
Association at the annual dinner in Sydney
The First
Australian Writers
By ERIS O'BRIEN
(PROPOSE to discuss the
earliest of the historical
books which were written
about Australia and which
derived their inspiration from the
personal experience of the men
who wrote them, although the
authors were not Australian-
born and their books were pub-
lished in England:, such books
as the narrative of Governor
Phillip’s voyage to Australia and
his foundation of the new settle-
ment at Sydney (London, 1789);
Watkin Tench’s two smaller
volumes on the same subject
(London, 1789 and 1793); John
White’s journal and natural
history of the colony (London,
1790); John Hunter’s historical
journal (London, 1793); David
Collins’s account of the colony
in N.S.W. (London, 1798); and,
perhaps, some other contempo-
rary narratives and journals and
letters.
These books, I believe, have
not only an unquestionable
historical value, but also a degree
of literary significance which the
essayists and historians of Aus-
tralian literature have rarely, if
ever, acknowledged.
When I say that, I do not
want to suggest that our learned
critics are unfamiliar with those
works, but that they have ex-
cluded them from our literature,
very probably with deliberate
_and reasonable intent.
The tendency has been to
classify them as English publica-
tions of an historical type, which
are more appropriate material
for such works as Judge Fer-
guson’s monumental biblio-
graphies, although everyone duly
recognises them as rich work-
shops and granaries that are
providentially accessible to re-
search-students in history and to
the writers of historical novels,
some of whom have used them
very advantageously.
I have often wished that these
fine books might be appropriated
into the great division of writ-
ing known as Australian Litera-
ture, because the barren initial
period of our literature would
become incalculably richer if by
any legitimate title we could in-_
elude them within it.
Indeed, I should not hesitate
to , appropriate them into our
literature even without a con-
ventionally legitimate title, be-
cause they are now
beneath the huge mass of con-
temporary English writings,
where, I believe, they must be
resting uncomfortably and more-
Or-less unrecognised, because
their matter and outlook are
more Australian than English.
When I make this present plea
for the recognition of them with-
in our Australian literature I
must, of course, doff my cap to
the literary experts who have the
capacity and the right to deter-
mine what is, and what is not,
a legitimate part of a national
literature.
I do not know exactly who
they are, but they appear to be
those who compile the histories
of literature. As far as I can
make out they used to be a
somewhat narrowminded and
dictatorial type of people who
ruled that, for a book to be
classifiable as literature, it should
not only be written on the high
level but also be creative in its
purpose and matter. According
to these conventions historical
works, because they were classed
within science rather than art,
were often excluded automati-
cally from literature, although
concessions were made to out-
standing utilitarian works which
were sub-classified as “applied
literature.”
There aiways seemed to be
uncertainty about these rulings,
particularly when the literary
prowess of a Clarenddn, a
Burnet, a Macaulay, a Gibbon,
burst the walls of the limited
enclosures allotted to them as
historians and demanded recog-
nition of their historical writing
within the classifications of litera-
ture. Although that restrictive
attitude has been broadened in
recent times, it is not a com-
pletely dead tradition. The cele-
brated English historian, G. M.
Trevelyan, made it the subject
of a fine lecture which he gave
to the National Book League in
London seven years ago.
I think I can see vestiges of
this lingering tradition in Mr.
H. M. Green’s Outline of A us-
tralian Literature (I refer to the
1930 edition), in which he
appeared to be uncertain and
perhaps distrustful of the norms
which custom had laid down for
determining what books might
be included in Australian litera-
ture and which of our writers
actually began our literature. He
hesitated between Wentworth’s
purely historical work of 1819,
Barron Field’s first book of
poor verse of 1819, and Harpur’s
book of better verse of the
1840’s, In this I see evidences
of a conscientious mental con-
flief in him while he was debat-
ing the extent to which his choice
had to be governed by considera-
tions of chronology, subject,
quality and country of origin of
author or publication. At all
events, it does not appear that
Mr. Green considered that the
authors, on whose behalf I am
speaking to you, had any sound
claims to be noticed in his history
of Austi alian literature.
In the erudite introduction to
Professor Morris Miller’s
volumes on Australian Litera-
ture the problems of determining
what may be included under the
classification of literature, and
more particularly what may be-
come part of a national litera-
ture, are satisfactorily discussed,
Here the Professor expressed
the opinion that there is now
“general agreement that in the
higher flights of literary creative-
ness, the historians and critics
of literature do fitly find a place
for writers in the fields of
religion, philosophy, history, art
and science, whose style and
manner of treatment may be
accepted as of value for their
own sake as distinct from a
purely expository intention.”
He further observed that the
inclusion of any of these writers
in the histories of literature
must be determined by their pre-
eminent qualitative values, and
incidentally made it clear that
he had restricted his own history
to the literature of poetry, fiction,
drama, essays and criticism, only
for the sake of convenience.
In the light of this generally-
accepted opinion it is fair to
suggest that the books which I
have mentioned, and others like
them, need not be debarred from
our literature merely because
they deal with history. But their
right to be selected for inclusion
in histories of literature depends,
of course, upon whether they
have outstanding merits and
significance as prose works. I
think they have these qualities
and shall refer to that matter
later on.
There is, however, one other
aspect of them which should be
noticed at least briefly. Are
these books sufficiently of Aus-
tralian origin to justify the in-
elusion of them in our national
literature?
For a discussion of this matter
Professor Morris Miller’s essay
can again be helpful and in some
respects definitive. He thinks
that the country where a book is
published has no relevance to
the determining of its national
character. On the question of
the nationality of the author,
however, his argument may be
summarised in this way. With
rare exceptions works written by
Australian-born authors auto-
matically belong to Australia ;
but he would also include in
Australian literature the work
of non-Australian writers who
had been domiciled in Australia
for a substantial period of time
and had meanwhile commenced
to write in Australia. He is even
somewhat disposed to include
writers, as Nat Gould for ex-
ample, who had commenced their
careers in Australia but adhered
to Australian themes long after
they left this country. Accord-
ing to this line of reasoning, the
books to which I am referring
could legitimately become, part
of Australian literature.
Let me now examine whether
these historical writers had a
record in outlook and achieve-
ment which might identify them
closely with Australia, and also
to what extent their books were
Australian in matter and char-
acter. ;
All were born in England.
They happened to be not only
members of the origirial group
of people who first settled Aus-
tralia, but within that generally
un-co-operative group these
writers, particularly Phillip,
Tench and Collins, were the
sanest and the noblest.
They were not mere officials.
It could be said of them that
they fashioned Australia, or if
we wanted to be more precise
historically it could be said that
by their sense of proportion they
prevented the rash and ill-pro-
vided foundation of our country
from degenerating into a major
catastrophe. White, the author
of the work on natural history,
was not of that type, but was
overwhelmed by the misery of
the settlement, abandoned it in
1792, and resigned his commis-
sion as a surgeon lest he be sent
back to Australia.
That, I think, is sufficient to
say about the personal history
of these men, who are well-known
figures. But I do want to
emphasise that their degree of
association with Australia has to
be estimated in the light of the
fact that they did more than
most other men to create Aus-
tralia. That is a unique claim to
nationality and, perhaps, an ade-
quate reason why they qualify
for inclusion in Australian
literature,
Phillip’s work was not written
directly by himself, but was com-
piled in London from his letters
and reminiscences. Hunter’s
book, which is less important,
was also made in the same way.
But Collins’s book of 650 pages,
Tench’s two small volumes and
White’s work were personal
compositions. Much of Collins’s
work was written in Australia,
as he tells us in the introduction
to his book. The rich illustra-
tions, equal to any of our modern
age, were engravings made from
sketches drawn in Australia.
Although the books are based
on facts of history, which follow
in chronological order, they are
narratives, assembled in an
orderly fashion and written in a
flowing, unpretentious style,
which frequently becomes
picturesque. The manner of
writing is always restrained, with
the result that tragic incidents,
which in the hands of lesser
writers might have become melo-
dramatic, derive an additional
impressiveness from the modera-
tion of their presentation.
Consider, for instance, the
well-known incident where
Collins described how the starv-
ing population had been wait-
ing for months for store-ships to
arrive from England; how,
when a ship did finally arrive,
it brought “a cargo so unneces-
sary and unprofitable as 222
females instead of a cargo of
provisions”; and how that
heterogeneous community graci-
ously and ungraciously faced-up
to a situation which could not
be remedied locally and which
even presaged extermination
through starvation. In some re-
spects that is an epic story, and
if you want to read it in all its
simple greatness read it in the
calm narrative of Collins. There
are hundreds of similar stories
in these books, which novelists
have already used and which
novelists will. probably use for
centuries. But the stories will
never be told better than Collins
told them, because his proneness
to understatement and his sin-
cerity make them ring true.
Tench also has this quality.
Take this one paragraph in
which he described the landing
of the first convicts on the shores
of Sydney, and by an economical
use of words sketched the scenic
background and made it throb
with new life and resound to
noises never previously heard in
it. Some writers would have
needed a chapter for that his-
torical event, but his one para-
graph appears to be quite ade-
quate :
The landing of a part of the marines
and convicts took place the next day,
and on the following the remainder
was disembarked. Business now sat
on every brow, and the scene, to an
indifferent spectator at leisure to con-
template it, would have been highly
picturesque and amusing. In one
place, a party cutting down the
woods; a second, setting up a black-
smith’s forge; a fiiird dragging along
a load of stones or provisions; here
an officer pitching his marquee, with
a detachment of troops parading on
one side of him and a cook’s fire
blazing up on the other. Through
the unwearied diligence of those at
the head of the different departments,
regularity was, however, soon intro-
duced, and, as far as the unsettled
state of matters would allow, con-
fusion gave place to system.
It is. unlikely, that these men
would have written books had
they not come to Australia. It
was the new environment and
the colossal adventure which
provoked a dormant literary
capacity in them. They had a
story to tell, and they told it so
well that it was quickly trans-
lated and published in foreign
languages. The manner and
content of their writing are in
the style of several writers in
that period, not that of Burke
and other pontifical figures in
that literature, but true to the
fashion which had come down
from the two brothers Fielding.
More specifically it might be
likened to Arthur Young’s Tour
in Ireland and his Travels in
France, which they had prob-
ably read, and also to William
Cobbett’s Rural Rides which
appeared not so long afterwards.
They all were narratives about
the manners of the people.
When considering purely Aus-
tralian history and writing, »
would not be unreasonable to
compare the works of Collins
and Tench with the Anglo-Saxon
Chronicle and other celebrate
early English Chronicles, out o
which so many books of history
and literature have been made.
Perhaps our generation 18 n 0
far enough removed from these
writers to appreciate them at tna
high level, but I feel sure tha ,
as the centuries pass, this signi-
ficant feature about them wi
be recognised. It is f Q<^e ®
gratifying to learn that discern-
ing Australian scholars and e
terprising publishers are eve
now engaged in editing and r
publishing these important writ-
ings. When this is done we shall
be better able to claim them a
our own ; not only as the m
of our historical writings m
also, perhaps, as the beginning
of our Australian literature.
Firetail Finches
Flit flit flit they cry in their bright voices
Showering upon the lawn, the firetail finches
Blowing from nowhere like broken leaves and berries
From some far brier-bush that the wind harries
In a flurry of soft green bodies, red beak and tail;
And flit they do when they have picked what they wanted.
Miles through the mountains again, so small, so undaunted.
As if they can see some sweet and sheltering brier
Formed of their own green flight and tips of fire
Where finches are safe wherever they blow with the gale.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


AND GETTING PAID FOR THE JOB!


C.S.R. CO's REPORT
Points from The General Manager's Report to Shareholders
Bigger Raw Sugar Production
Progress of Works Programme
Debenture Issue Over-Subscribed
There has been an improvement this year in
the size of the Queensland cane crop. In his
annual report to shareholders of the Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. Ltd., Dr. Harman, General
Manager, said the increase was due to better
weather conditions in growing areas.
“If expectations are realized, the raw sugar
output next season should be larger than any-
thing Australia has yet produced” Dr. Harman
said.
These large crops
will strain the crushing
capacity of mills, and
additional storage for
raw sugar will be
necessary.
Comparative raw
sugar production figures
for the last four years
are:—
The C.S.R. Co. owns four
raw sugar mills in Queens-
land, three, in New South
Wales and five in Fiji. Pro-
duction of raw sugar at
these C.S.E. mills in the
last four years is as follows:
Estimated figures for 1952.
New Sugar Settlement
In North Queensland
The newly opened Aber-
gowrie Area in the Herbert
River district near Ingham
is being settled by some
180 cane growers and their
families. This new area
will supply some 180,000
tons of cane a year to the
C.S.R. Co.’s Victoria Mill.
The Company has rebuilt a
railway bridge over the
Herbert River and is lay-
ing down a new railway
line to carry the cane.
This settlement is part of
the big expansion of the
Queensland industry which
will raise raw sugar ex-
ports under the British
Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement.
Expansion of C.S.R.
Mills in Queensland
The Company’s Victoria
Mill on the Herbert River
is being nearly doubled in
capacity in order to crush
the cane from these new
areas.
Because of the increasing
costs of material and wages,
duplication of this one mill
and extension of the trans-
port system are now
estimated to cost about
£2,400,000, an increase of
45% on our original esti-
mate. That is just one
example why the Company
has needed more capital
funds.
The Company ’s MacknacTe
and Goondi Mills are also
in course of being ex-
panded. (C.S.R. owns four
mills in North Queensland).
Refined Sugar
in Good Supply
The Company has been
able to revert to its normal
practice of building up
stocks of refined sugar in
the winter and spring.
These are used during the
summer and early autumn
when fruit is harvested and
processed, and demand for
sugar increases from nearly
all users.
We greatly appreciate the
co-operation given by mem-
bers of the grocery and
food-processing trades, in
their efforts in recent years
to assist equitable distribu-
tion of sugar, and are very
pleased to be offering re-
fined sugar again to cus-
tomers without any restric-
tion.
Capital expenditure on
expansion and replacement
of refining plant in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand
continues at a high level.
Commonwealth
Sugar Inquiry
The Sugar Inquiry Com-
mittee (consisting of 3
Common wealth and 2 Q 'laud
Govt, officers) has recently
completed its report after
five months of investigation
into all sections of the in-
dustry. As a result, the
retail price of refined sugar
in capital cities has been
increased by one penny to
9d. per lb.
C.S.R. Functions
in Sugar Industry
The Company has two
principal functions and in-
terests in the Australian,
sugar industry:—
e We are part of the raw
sugar industry, which
consists of some 9*ooo in-
dependent growers and
thirty-four mills. We
own 7 of these mills.
& We are refiners and mer-
chandisers of most of the
sugar consumed in Aus-
tralia, and we are the
commercial marketing or-
ganisation for the export
of surplus raw sugar.
The latter we have done
for twenty - nine years,,
operating under contract
with the Queensland
Government, whose Sugar
Board is responsible for
marketing all raw sugar
produced, including that
from our mills.
Not one penny of the
proceeds from the increase
in refined sugar price is re-
tained by this Company as
refiners and sellers of the
sugar, hut we benefit as
members of the raw sugar
industry, in precisely the
same way as the twenty-
seven other millers.
Debentures
Over-subscribed
The £4,000,000 5% deben-
ture issue opened on the
Bth September and was
closed, over-subscribed, on
the 7th October. This was
a very pleasing result. The
issue proved popular with
small investors and was
widely spread with nearly
4,000 subscribers.
The issues of ordinary
shares and debentures are
to provide funds for the
expansion which- we have
undertaken in our various
manufacturing divisions,
and to provide additional
funds for large increased
working capital. The de-
clining value of money has
increased the financial re-
quirements, both for the
construction of plants and
for the provision of the
necessary working capital.
THE EFFECT OF
HIGH TAXES
In his report to
C.S.R. shareholders,
Dr. Harman said:
“The provision of
adequate capital is
one of the major
problems facing
private enterprise in
Australia. The in-
cidence of taxation
and other aspects of
government policy
are making it in-
creasingly difficult
for companies to
save the money
needed to maintain
themselves, let alone
allow them to ac-
cumulate funds for
expansion. ’ ’
Building’ Materials
Total sales of products
of the Building Materials
Division have remained at
the record level of £3 mil-
lion per annum established
the previous year. There
has been, however, a
slackening of demand for
some materials.
Building activity gener-
ally has decreased since the
beginning of 1952 and one
major reason for this has
been the very high cost of
building which has risen at
a greater rate than the cost
of either wages or materials.
There are welcome signs
that the rise in costs might
be easing now and that
builders will he able to get
back to the contract price
system.
C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd,
During the past six
months a drop occurred in
the sales of the chemical
products made or marketed
by G.S.B. Chemicals Pty.
Ltd., the subsidiary com-
pany jointly owned by The
Distillers Company Limited
and this Company,
Construction of factories
at Rhodes is nearing com-
pletion. It is expected that
the production of acetic
anhydride will commence
within the next few months
and cellulose acetate shortly
afterwards. Acetic anhy-
dride is used in the manu-
facture of aspirin and cel-
lulose acetate flake. Acetate
flake is used in the plastics
and the rayon yarn indus-
tries.
How Sugar Price is Shared
GROCERY TRADE
Retail Grocer £lO • 3 I
Wholesale Grocer £l ■ IG II
C.S.R Co.'s SHARE
For Managing. Selling
and Financing (See Note )
ACTUAL REFINING COSTS
TRANSPORT AND
SUNDRY EXPENSES
MILLERS AND GROWERS
REFINED SUGAR (IA)
PER TON PER LB.
£ S 0 PENCE PERCENTAGE
PER TON PER LB. Of TOTAL
£B4 0 0 9-OOd 100%
Note; From these charges the Company
has to provide Management and Admins-
trative Costs, Selling Costs, Interest on
Advances to mill owners, Research,
Advertising, Depreciation of Refineries
Taxes, and Profit to Shareholders.
Sugar Price in Various Conn tries
rA vf
oj a
<C a
Note: Conversions to Australian currency
made at Exchange Rates prevailing on
14th October, 1952. The Australian
Sugar Industry is not subsidised in
any way.
and the Chief Justice, leaning on the rickety rail of
the jetty at Man O’War Steps, as they waited for the
cock-boat that was to row them over to the ship to
pay their official call, once again adverted to the
series of memos which dealt with the tastes and
requirements of a person described by Sir Jeremiah
as a young female of great delicacy of mind; for
whom he required a cottage in the Government House
grounds to be fitted up. 7
“Lax as he was,” the Premier remarked, looking
through the rail at the brilliant green water that, below
them, japped and dapped its way among the cedar
piles and sleepers on the crazy pier, “Sir Charles
never went in for so open a breach of decorum.”
"His Excellency harped continually, though, on
:Ke Chief Justice,
used to weighing evidence, put in his word.
-She needs a watch-dog, tame yet efficient.”
The Premier quoted yet another letter, his eyes
fixed on the Surinam Merchant, from which a boat was
being lowered.
“The lady requires a small conveyance of discreet
aspect.” The Chief Justice again quoted one of Sir
Jeremiah’s letters.
“The young person would be glad to learn whether
the cottage is surrounded with a well-grown shrubbery,
as she does not care for being overlooked.’’ This last
was the Premier’s contribution.
“A pair of cream Arab ponies is the team the
female above referred to would prefer to drive, and
the vehicle she needs, though smart, must have a roomy
hood and screen of curtains.” . .
The Premier paid a tribute to the Chief Justices
memory ; but everyone who read the letters had learnt
them by heart. Never were letters so thumbed.
“In selecting the three domestics required by the
tenant of the cottage please see to it that they are of
unimpeachable respectability and discretion.”
‘‘The furniture to be selected for the cottage must
be in good taste, as the female is a person of exquisite
SENSIBILITY.”
‘‘Pray be so good as to inform me the
cottage is easy of access to Government House?”
This last excerpt inspired the Premier to dig the
Chief Justice in the ribs and go off into a burst of
hearty laughter, in which the Chief Justice joined.
With difficulty moderating their mirth, for there were
several other spicy passages which, remembering, they
told each other, in French, they got into the boat
which was to take them to the Surinam Merchant, the
Chief Justice saying “We absolutely must get a glimpse
of this female of great delicacy of mind!”
I “It will be difficult. She seems to be of such a
[retiring disposition.”
“The deck away from the shore will be the one
to watch. She is sure to be got rid of before the
official reception at Fort Macquarie.”
S On boarding the Surinam Merchant the two
friends immediately walked briskly across to the star-
board deck, where, fortunately, they were just in time
to see a lady, devotedly attended by six of the ship’s
officers, make her way to a lowered gangway, below
which a boat bobbed up and down in readiness to
receive her.
Never in their whole crowded lives had the
Premier or the Chief Justice seen such outstanding
beauty! They noted the magnolia skin, pale yet
radiant; the sparkling eyes, so charged with an enticing
ardor —eyes, however, that, on encountering their
amazed regard, were at once shadowed by incredibly
long, jet-black lashes.
Awed, the Chief Justice still had presence of mind
to quote another of Sir Jeremiah’s references to the
lady before them; “The girl, she is little more ...”
“Hush!” The Premier was completely bowled
over.
“Oh! What an elegant nose!”
“Oh! What a dimpled chin!”
“Oh! What a provoking mouth, demure, yes, but
how full of allure!”
“The curling lips!”
“The exquisite figure!”
“The carriage of the superbly-held shoulders!”
“Petite? Oh, yes! A pocket-Venus!”
The ejaculations the Premier and the Chief Justice
exchanged with each other had the quality of a psalm.
“Witch!” gasped out the Premier, unaware that
he spoke out loud.
“Peach!” murmured the Chief Justice, using such
a word of approval for the first time in his life.
The fair unknown dropped down the ship’s side
into the waiting boat beyond reach of their hungry
sight. The two men went off to pay their official call,
during which the looks of awe, envy and amazement
greatly puzzled his Excellency every time he encoun-
tered their bulging eyes.
“What a dog !”
“Does his wife—who very properly made no
appearance— know ?”
On returning to shore both audibly wondered.
Otherwise they found each other strangely silent.
Shattered,
I N spite of all precautions, the letters had been so
t much read and quoted, the work in the cottage had,
perforce, been so much discussed, and wondered about,
the discreet conveyance, as it stood in the Government
House stables, had been so much admired, that, really,
by the time of his Excellency’s arrival the existence of
the female of great delicacy of mind was known to
everyone.
The basketwork pony-carriage drawn by two
cream Arabs, with its red-and-white striped hood, was
observed to meet the boat which had brought the fair
passenger from the Surinam Merchant; and scores of
people watched her drive herself into Government
House by the stable gates.
Was it to be supposed that any reference to this
lady would be made on the platform, decorated with
three pots of maidenhair-fern and a palm, which was
in full sight and hearing of all Parramatta? From
which his Excellency, in all the dignity his rank con-
ferred, was now declaiming the peroration of a speech
which had lasted two hours?
(He had come, he said, prepared “to shoulder
the burdens of office.”)
Was it credible that the lady of great delicacy of
mind would be there openly discussed? Certainly not.
But it is always the unexpected that happens.
Among those put down to speak last was a man
born with a passion for saving everyone from some-
thing, or someone from everything. Which was iL
Acting in good faith, solely wishing to be helpful
he ended his remarks (aglow with a kindness made
even more disarming by his shyness in broaching so
ticklish a subject; yet urged to it by so plain a duty)
by saying “His Excellency will realise that it is as loyal
citizens we ask him to give us his personal assurance
that there is no truth in the rumor that a female of
doubtful virtue is being installed in our mids .
It was Lady Willing-Toper who sprang up to
reply. “If you refer, my good man, to my French
maid Babette D’Entrecasteau, let me assure you that
she is not only a perfectly virtuous female. She is
Sore! Much more! She is the only maid I have ever
had who really understands my coiffure. Nothing is
too good for her! And let me tell you
There was a frantic signal from the Mayon
The gathering rising, galvanised, saved the
Queen to the accompaniment of a band massed
instrument by instrument, from Parramatta, Doggett s
Patch, Mallow’s Marsh, Hornsby Junction Dural,
Gander’s Pond and Little-Peepmg-on-the-Inlet.
To the immense relief of the Boisragon family the
situation, too, had been saved.


The Vast A.M.P. Thousand-farm Schemes in South Australia and Victoria
GREEN GROW
THE DESERTS
By CHARLES SHAW
may be gathered from its latest
financial statement:
1940. 1950. 1951.
New £mil. £mil. £mil.
business 23.0 77.1 101.4
Total
income 16.4 29.0 31.8
Total
assets .. 128.6 221.4 239.2
The theory it got hold of was
that the Ninety-mile Desert
country could be made to grow
good pasture and this pasture
would carry good sheep and
cattle.
Earlier, the Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Re-
search Organisation and the
Waite Research Institute had
tested the effect of adding certain
minerals —called minor elements
—to unthrifty coastal country on
the Coorong, westward of the
Ninety-mile, on Kangaroo Island,
off the South Australian coast,
and on the West Australian
coast. There are 12 elements
necessary to green plants, and not
only necessary to the plants but
to those —human or animal —•
who eat them. They are
molybdenum, copper, zinc, man-
ganese, boron, iron, nitrogen,
magnesium, sulphur, calcium,
potassium and phosphorus. The
first six are called minor
elements because of their relative
small proportions in the soil.
Yet, small as the proportion may
be, if it is not there the herbage
is poverty-stricken and animals
which graze on it can’t do well.
The theory of the A.M.P, was
that what the addition of minor
elements had done for coastal
soils it could do for the mallee
soils. The C.5.1.R.0. and the
W.I. tested and proved the
theory. Tests over five years
showed that additions of copper
meant that lucerne, oats, peas
and subterranean-clover could
be grown; that sub.-clover re-
sponded to zinc; that the best
results came from those mixed
pastures which contained sub.-
clover ; that because of the
general lack of phosphorus and
nitrogen, non-leguminous plants
had a struggle to grow.
With this to go on, the A.M.P.
theory became a conviction —a
conviction that, with capital,
science, modern machinery,
modem land practice, and hard
work, what had been regarded
as useless mallee desert could be
brought into high production.
But it was not to be done in
a rush. Not like the older mallee
settlements in Victoria, when
blocks were hurriedly surveyed,
granted to settlers, who promptly
knocked down all the scrub and
began feverishly growing wheat.
This began about 1910. By
1930 the overcropped light soil,
denuded of protective scrub-
cover, was being blown away.
Paddocks were blown bare,
fences and roads covered with
dust, railways and water-canals
choked. For the past 20 years
Victoria has been waging an
endless and costly battle to try
to save something from the wind-
eroded ruin.
Two things made the A.M.P.
proposition look good. One
was the 17in. annual rainfall of
the area. The other was that
the soil was stable, and, provided
clearing was done wisely, and the
cleared land was planted to per-
manent pastures immediately, it
was safe from wind-drift. With
this, and the work of the
C.5.1.R.0. and W.I. men to go
on, the plan took shape.
An area of some 500,000 acres
around Keith and north of
Bordertown was chosen. The
MANY Australians cer-
tainly most Victorians
and South Australians—
have heard of the Ninety-
mile Desert, a strip of unoccu-
pied country which flanks the
Melbourne - Adelaide railway
from Bordertown almost to
Tailem Bend, on the Murray.
Fifty years or so ago, when
settlers pushed out from the
Murray, the Wirnmera and the
Yarriambiac into the Victorian
Mallee they stayed close to the
three streams because there was
no surface water away from
them. This fact kept men close
to the river when they pushed
into the South Australian Mallee.
Later, when underground water
was discovered, when Farrer
produced his dry-country wheats,
the Mallee was opened to wheat-
farmers.
But settlement avoided the
Ninety-mile, As farms and
townships spread from the
Grampians to the Murray in
north-west Victoria they skirted
what Victoria calls the Big
Desert. They spread up the
Murray from South Australia
and along the South Australian
coast to Victoria, going above
and below the Ninety-mile.
Because the Ninety - mile
Desert lay athwart the direct rail
route from Melbourne to Ade-
laide it got a railway and an
inter-city road through it. But
trains and motors went past
at their highest speed ; nobody
wanted to stop in the Ninety-
mile, Occasionally it shipped
out a few sheep, a bale or so
of dusty wool, some mallee
wood. Odds and ends were
dropped off at sidings like Keith,
Tintinara, Coonalpyn, where a
few folk existed, seemingly lost
in the scrub by day and part of
the blue moonlit silence of the
wasteland by night.
Off the main Adelaide-Mel-
bourne line in Victoria branch-
railways went north into the
Vic. Mallee settlements. No line
turned west until a connection
was made from the Victorian
Ouyen through South Aus-
tralian Pinnaroo to Tailem Bend,
and that kept well north of the
Ninety-mile. A branch from
Horsham got as far as Carpolac.
Another from Jeparit reached
Yanac. Neither went further,
apparently scared to find them-
selves so close to the fringes of
the Big Desert.
Thus the Ninety-mile lay, a
sort of terra incognita, bounded
roughly by the Pinnaroo-Tailem
Bend line on the north and by
the Bordertown-Tailem Bend
line on the south—inside a tri-
angle of steel rails with its apex
at Tailem Bend, its base stand-
ing vertically on the border.
There, it seemed, it was
doomed to lie, unoccupied and
unwanted, until the Australian
Mutual Provident Society took
a theory out of virtually no-
thing and created a practical
vision. The Ninety-mile, un-
known and unwanted four years
ago, is to become a national
asset worth millions. So is the
Big Desert.
A.M.P. has been doing busi-
ness for more than 100 years
and is the biggest mutual life-
assurance concern in the Empire.
A mutual life-assurance society
is so called because it has no
shareholders— all policyholders,
great and small, share in the
profits and benefits. The A.M.P.
is a household word in Aus-
tralia, Some idea of its scope
South Australian Government,
told of the plan, put through a
“developmental lease” Act
whereby approved lessees could
obtain large areas for develop-
ment, Existing leases within the
area were bought and added to
the Crown leases.
On these 500,000 acres about
60 per cent, is expected to be
developed in from 10 to
15 years’ time. Each farm
is based on the proposition that
a good living can be made from
1200 sheep. To provide a safe
margin the figure is lifted to 1500
sheep. The land, cleared and
sown with permanent pastures,
and with occasional cereal crops
for fodder, will carry from one-
and-a-half to two sheep an acre.
The farms will also carry some
cattle and grow cereal and
lucerne-hay for sale. Tests are
now being conducted to prove
the accuracy of these estimates.
This means that the 500,000
acres which until now had not
carried any permanent sheep
will eventually carry about
650,000 sheep and thousands of
cattle, and produce its own
fodder.
Now, to prepare such a vast
area for production and settle-
ment is a huge job. It calls for
large capital expenditure, careful
management and efficient plan-
ning. Clearing and subdivision
of the land, building fences and
homes, sowing pastures, provid-
ing water-supplies, buying foun-
dation stock, implements and all
the rest of it. Given all this,
two other important factors must
be available—time, and the right
kind of settlers to take up the
improved blocks.
The A.M.P. has provided for
both in its scheme of settlement.
During the 21-year term of the
lease from the South Australian
Shaded areas show settlement leases
Government the A.M.P. has the
right to develop and sell the
leases. Any leases not so dis-
posed of at the end of the term
will revert to the S.A. Govern-
ment.
The intending settler first be-
comes an employee of the
scheme. He remains as such for
five years. During that period
he not only learns about farm-
ing and becomes familiar with
his future land ; he is also being
studied by the management.
Those who fail to measure up
to the standard are weeded out.
It may take longer than five
years to make a farmer of some
men. If so, and they have it
in them, the period is extended.
The A.M.P. reserves the right to
dismiss an employee-settler—
this is clearly understood at the
beginning.
When a man appears to be of
the type likely to succeed as a
farmer his name is submitted to
the Government as a prospective
settler when he is first employee
by the A.M.P. This overcomes
the danger of him serving his
time and then being rejected by a
Minister. When the man is con-
sidered to be ready, he is granted
a perpetual lease of his land,
reimbursing the A.M.P. by easy
annual payments.
His future is based on tests
indicating the wool-clip and
lambing percentage which can
be expected from the type of
Merino the farm will run. In
addition, he will have income
from sidelines in beef, dairying,
pigs and fodder sales.
The South Australian part of
the scheme —for a second scheme
is beginning over the border in
the Big Desert —began about
three years ago. Today 106,000
of the 500,000 acres are under
development and the progress
rate is steadily increasing.
In Victoria the second scheme
provides for the testing of the
settlement and development pos-
sibilities of the 570,000 acres
held. The country —between
the Dimboola - Bordertown
line on the south and the
Ouyen - Pinnaroo line on
the north —is even more un-
known to Australians than the
Ninety-mile Desert. A . vast
rectangle of north-west Victoria,
it has long been regarded as
utterly useless.
It came into the A.M.P.
scheme in a romantic fashion
that reads more like fiction than
fact. An A.M.P. "officer became
a little curious about the Big
Desert and pushed into the waste
of mallee and sand, using one of
those motor-vehicles developed
by war in the African desert and
Pacific jungles.
This officer was intrigued by
beautiful flats of mallee and
broombush, and particularly by
the plentiful yacca. Yacca is
one of the grass-tree family, and
he knew that it did not grow
where the rainfall was below
17in. a year. He knew, too,
that callitris (Murray-pine) sel-
dom grows where the rainfall
is more than 17in. So when
the callitris cut out and the yacca
appeared he began to think.
He had an altimeter with him
which showed the country to be
generally about 200 ft. to 300 ft.
higher than the southern part
of the Ninety-mile. The rain-
occurrence over all that part of
South Australia and Victoria is
known to increase by 100 points
a year for every 100 ft. of
elevation. Which meant that the
rising altitude might counteract
the natural tendency for the rain
to lessen as it moved n.-e,; per-
haps the rainfall would thus hold
instead of falling and the 17in.-
18in. area extend much
further north and east than was
expected. This proved to be so,
and its full implication is being
tested by a chain of automatic
rain-gauges spread through the
area, each with its pasture test-
area.
So the great scheme goes
across the border, and two States
are to benefit by having idle
land brought to production.
Acquisition of the land in Vic-
toria is by a 25-year develop-
mental lease, and conditions
differ from those in South Aus-
tralia in that when the settler
buys from the A.M.P. he will get
a freehold.
The foregoing is an outline of
the project and its progress. A
multitude of details lie behind
the story. One detail is that ,close
to the surface under all that
country good water lies. Each
farm, therefore, will be equipped
with two shallow bores or wells
(10ft. or so) for stock-water and
a deep bore (100 ft. or so) for
household water.
Another detail is that the
work of testing plants and minor
elements goes on. Veldt-grass
is showing great promise. On
the broombush country Palestine
strawberry-clover is thriving; it
is denser after the first autumn
rains, and is as good as sub,-
dover in spring.
So it goes on. But the A.M.P.
will not be finished with the
scheme when all the land is
settled. In each area it will
maintain a field-station as a
centre of experiment and advice.
On these stations stud stock
will be kept for supplying
settlers with breeding animals,
pasture mixtures will be tested,
there will be a pool of modern
machinery for clearing and work-
ing the land, and an engineering
service for the settlers. These
stations will be retained until the
settlers no longer need them.
All this development and pro-
gress, of course, is very good for
that empty mallee country. It
means the rapid building of
townships, roads, schools. Busi-
ness will follow the farmers. New
communities will be created.
The border gap between the two
States will be closed.
But it means a lot more.
Most importantly the scheme
gives a complete answer to those
who have said that all the
good land in Australia is taken
up, that the unsettled lands are
unproductive, and that therefore
our population - potential is
limited to 20 million. For what
is being done in that so-called
desert can be done elsewhere —
and there are millions of acres
elsewhere only awaiting the
touch of science, capital and
enterprise.
The whole vast scheme, too,
opens a new era -in Australian
agriculture, for it shows what
can be done when big capital
goes to work —as it will have to
go to work outside the big cities
if it wants to justify itself.
The A.M.P. is not in this
scheme merely for the good of
its health. It expects to make
money out of it in the
long run. That’s why
it examined the thing
from top to bottom
before taking it on.
That’s why it makes a
careful selection of the
intending settlers and
intends to keep an eye
on them when they
are settled.
All the same, it is
betting a huge sum on
its proposition that
this land can be made
to produce, and it is
investing the policy-
holders’ money in a
grand enterprise that
will benefit the nation
immeasurably. The
society has refrained
from widely publicis-
ing the scheme. It
wants no foundation-
stone ceremonies or
platitudinous speeches. Not only
because it didn’t want to be
snowed-under with more appli-
cations from the thousands of
splendid land-hungry men, but
also because it wants to have the
first farms working successfully
before making even preliminary
claims of success.
These farms are now carrying
magnificent pastures and pro-
ducing big cuts of wool and
high-quality lamb, mutton and
beef. The first of them will be
allotted in a little over 12
months’ time. Their productivity,
the continuing animal health
and many other matters are
being tested so that no mistakes
will be made.
There is every reason for say-
ing that within the next 15 years
or so Australia will have gained
a large new farming district and
the A.M.P. a sound investment.


to*'
Vs
Ik
/f:i
f if
ORL^
iilpi
*
y/f'
Sjfi.
mm
SHBRKi
I
' ' I
sk."
19
mm
GOLD MEDAL WINES
come to you this Christmas in a festive
gift carton— no extra cost, of course.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST ALFRED GEORGE SIMONS
late of Strathfleld.- —TAKE NOTICE that
TESSA BLAINE INGHAM SIMONS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4470 of
1952 on the ground of habitual drunken-
ness and cruelty for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
King Street Sydney by the Twenty-third
day of February 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
LEWIS 0. ABIGAIL, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street. Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
TO GEORGE ALFRED BRYCE Orderly
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife JOYCE BRYCE has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce on
the ground of desertion by you for a con-
tinuous period of three years or more IF
you desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within THIRTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your so
doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce Judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.—
DATED this 28th day of November, 1952.
O J. BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED
CURRAN, ESQ., of 37-38 Padbury Build-
ings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the State
of Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
Where Morgan the bushranger terrorised. The place and
the people as they are today
Some
Upper Murray
People
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
ALL my life I’d been hear-
ing about the Upper
Murray; but I only saw
something of it when, a
year or two back, I was a .guest
of the Maginnity family of
Tooma.
My grandmother often told me
about the shooting of Sergeant
Maginnity, making the story
uncommonly vivid: so that one
could see the two policemen rid-
ing back from Coppabella
station to Tumbarumba in the
rain. Coats gleaming, the ferns
Sergeant Maginnity was carrying
bearded and trembling with
moisture ; the horses walking.
A horseman appearing out of
the dark timber ahead of them,
and Sergeant Maginnity canter-
ing to overtake him —“I wonder
who this is?” —the trooper lag-
ging behind. The brief,
mysterious conversation —for no
one can really know what was
said—before Morgan’s revolver
was pushed under the sergeant’s
raincoat, from behind. The shot,
and Sergeant Maginnity falling
to the muddy road . . .
That, at least, was my grand-
mother’s story. Driving from
Tumbarumba to Tooma, Francis
Maginnity also told me the story
—it tallied in all major points—
and added a postscript.
The constable had been dis-
charged from the police-force
for his part in the affair, he said.
When he arrived in Tumbarumba
he exhibited bullet-holes in his
saddle-flap as evidence that
Morgan had fired at him, too.
But some thoughtful person,
measuring the angle of entry,
pointed out that if Morgan had
really fired the shots he must
have been perched in a gum-
tree at the time. If the constable
had merely said he had fired at
Morgan, who escaped, he could
hardly have been contradicted.
Sergeant Maginnity, my grand-
mother would say, rounding off
the story, left a wife and young
family. That young widow was
Francis’s grandmother: the
children, before I visited there,
were all deceased with the excep-
tion of the youngest daughter.
Miss Rose Maginnity, who at
92, a tall, very erect, white-haired
old lady, was still in charge of
the Tooma post-office.
Sergeant Maginnity had often
said that when he retired he
would settle at Tooma, which he
considered “the pick of the
Upper Murray.” And after his
death his widow, with her small
children, did that. She must have
been a dauntless woman. There
is a family legend that, while
the legal part of the occupation
was being completed in Sydney,
she sat with a shotgun over her
knees. One eye on the children,
the other alert for the neighbor-
ing squatter’s men. Some of the
landed gentry of that time were
a pretty rough lot and did not
take kindly to small selectors.
The original selection has
increased in size and, enorm-
ously, in value.
Incidentally, Bob Woodbridge,
my great-uncle, as a boy at
Campbelltown played with the
juvenile Morgan, an orphan,
whose real name was Johnny
Gwynn. At that tender age
Morgan tried to destroy Bob
Woodbridge with a muzzle-
loader, over a dispute arising out
of a game of marbles. My great-
uncle Bob never played marbles
with Morgan again.
And what in particular, I
wonder, drove Morgan to shoot
Sergeant Maginnity? There are
many versions of the shooting.
In one, Maginnity and Morgan
grapple chest-to-chest, on horse-
back ; good action stuff. Another
has it that there was a regular
duel. And the late Sydney Jeph-
cott, poet, tree-lover and well-
known Upper Murray per-
sonality, told me that he had
heard a story in which Morgan
rode back, propped Sergeant
Maginnity against a tree, pulled
his hat over his eyes and later
expressed regret at the “neces-
sity” for shooting such a brave
man.
The last is interesting as one
of the very few stories that give
Morgan credit for any remotely
human feelings. For the man
was a brute, a far cry from the
“knights of the road,” although,
perhaps, a logical development
from them; an ogre who
terrorised whole districts. Ben
Hall said that if he ever came
across Morgan he would shoot
him down “like a mad dog.”
And, putting aside questions of
probability, rhetoric and the
strong possibility that in such an
encounter Morgan—a freakishly
good shot —might have shot Ben
Hall, the statement remains a
feasible sample of responsible
bushranging opinion. Morgan
was outside the rules —some-
where on the shadowy borderline
of humanity.
But he was not, perhaps, so
remote from human contacts as
is generally supposed. My uncle,
T. A. Woodbridge, of South
Gundagai, a local historian of
repute, told me that Morgan
had accomplices—a family who
gave him refuge and tucker and
took a good share of his loot.
What lends color to this theory
is that it would explain Morgan’s
mysterious disappearances; and
without some explanation of the
kind some of Morgan’s move-
ments seem scarcely possible.
All of which seemed specially
interesting, riding comfortably
down to Tooma in the new
Maginnity car. Over Paddy’s
River, past Maragle, already
occupied by soldier-settlers, with
their flocks and herds and wives ;
some in tents, some busy build-
ing houses, a lucky couple of
families installed in the fine
Maragle homestead. Down, and
looping round, Clark’s Hill, till
there was a clear run down to the
willows, the long green tunnel
across Tumbarumba and Mannus
Creeks, the poplars outside the
old homestead-hotel and the lone
Californian redwood.
Dairy, yards, shearing-shed,
gallows, giant woodheap, black-
smith’s-shop, poddy lambs and
homing turkeys, all springing
haphazardly from the tall green
grass. The little schoolhouse on
the other side of the road where
Mary Maginnity (Francis’s
daughter) teaches her young
brothers and sisters, and other
children.
Tooma isn’t very large, and
it is inhabited mainly by
Maginnitys. There is just the
old, long, single-storied build-
ing, which includes the store —it
was run by Percy Fredericks —
and the post-office, and the hotel,
the licence of which is retained,
I imagine, largely for sentimental
reasons. I was there in early
autumn, and found it a place of
large fires and large meals. Since
most visitors are friends and
neighbors, and since, anyway, it
would offend Mrs. Maginnity’s
notions of hospitality if anyone
were charged for a meal, the
house side of the business cannot
be a commercial success.
(Sheahan’s Hotel at Jugiong,
where Billy Sheahan, N.S.W.
Minister, comes from, is a place
with similar traditions of
hospitality.)
Hie bar is small, and looks
something like the Norman
Lindsay illustration of the bar
at Glenrowan in Ned Kelly. A
bar without a till, and with
bridles and veterinary medicines
and bandages for racehorses’ legs
stacked in places where bottles
are usually kept. But the beer is
excellent, N.S.W. or Victorian.
The late Mr. David Maginnity
disapproved of excessive drink-
ing. His idea of excess was any-
thing more than two glasses
of whisky. And the indigna-
tion of some whisky-hardened
customer —a wandering dealer,
perhaps, or a racing man going
through to the Tumbarumba or
Towong meetings—when firmly
and courteously refused a third
drink was, I imagine, pretty to
watch.
I never met Mr. Maginnity
(who died during the war), but
I have heard countless tales
about him. He was a familiar
figure at country race-meetings,
and, in Gundagai, he has a
special claim to respectful
memory for the part he played
in the flood of 1891 ; for which
he was awarded the Royal
Humane Society Medal, pre-
sented to him in the Gundagai
courthouse by Mayor Bibo.
He was a fine horseman (there
is a “Maginnity’s Leap” some-
where) ; a kind of beau ideal of
a bushman, a character not
unlike the Danny Delacy of
Miles Franklin’s All That
Swagger. A portrait of him
which I find faulty is given by
Elyne Mitchell in a story in one
of the Coast to Coast collections.
Elyne Mitchell should write a
novel. Although she herself was
not born on the Upper Murray
(she was a Chauvel —daughter of
the commander of the Australian
Light Horse in World War I)
her husband, Tom Mitchell, was,
as she has written, “born to the
mountain purple.” And no one
who has read her Australian
Alps can doubt her genuine love
for, and intimacy with, those
mountains. An emotion which
is carried to a point of
mysticism, a philosophy of life
which necessarily includes a
solid respect for mountain
people.
She breaks new ground. And
what magnificent ground it is!
Little-known snowlands, bird-
and animal-life of the high
plateaux, unorthodox sport such
as capturing brumbies by fleet-
ness of ski and —a rich topsoil
that has yet to be developed—the
human life there. Station-men
old and new, stockmen, dairy-
farmers, drovers, dealers, store-
keepers, mailmen, gold-fossickers
and the men who live (they are
a vanishing race) in lonely huts
during summer months, looking
after cattle on the snow-leases.
Not forgetting the new
ingredients in Upper Murray
life, the soldier-settlers and their
wives.
I quote from Australian Alps:
“Our home, Towong Hill, is out
on the end of a ridge 150 feet
above the Murray Flats, looking
straight up the river at the wall
of the Alps, and all around, with
the green flats lapping at their
feet, are the foothills.”
It was there, more or less, that
we discovered the author when
we drove over from Tooma. A
tall, dark, handsome young
woman in shorts, with consider-
able dignity: as, indeed, might
be expected of the daughter of
a soldier who commanded more
horsemen than did Richard
Coeur-de-Lion.
Towong Hill is a cattle-station
of, roughly, 5000 acres. But
those acres are very valuable.
The two-storied brick homestead
is over 100 years old, Tom
Mitchell told me. It was, I
remembered, the home of the
Findlays, an old Upper Murray
family, as are the Mitchells.
Thomas Mitchell, of Bringen-
brong station, had an early repu-
tation as a protector of the
aborigines, at a time when
settlers were destroying them
with poisoned flour, shooting-
parties and other products of
civilisation, in a way that at this
distance seems incredible.
The Mitchells are, in fact, part
of the Upper Murray. They
represent a way of life that has
a certain distinction. Very likely
they are related to an astonish-
ing number of other Upper
Murray families —the thorny
path of Upper Murray pedigrees
is one no outsider can hope to
negotiate unaided —and, for a
long time, station-hands on the
Upper Murray have considered
a job with the Mitchells a good
investment in security for life. -
We looked admiringly at the
view; and, presently, Mrs.
Mitchell took us inside and gave
us Victorian beer,
Towong Hill is on the Vic-
torian side. Tom Mitchell,
Country-party member in the
Victorian House, I found was
held by Upper Murray admirers
to be a speaker worthy of com-
parison with Menzies ; certainly
he was a brilliant conversa-
tionalist. Upper Murray people
tended to regard him as their
spokesman, even where they were
not his constituents.
The people of the Upper
Murray have a quality that
deserves analysis from the inside.
One thing that struck me was an
aristocratic love of eccentricity,


All-time
sales recoids
smashed by
L /
m
II
Min
Never
before in motoring history have the Australian people
shown such overwhelming confidence in one car
LAST YEAR THIS YEAR
Last year 21,225 people chose Hfrlden Sedan.
This was the largest sale of one individual
model ever recorded with the Registration
Authorities. The next most popular car —with
four different models sold only 17,241.
Why do more people buy Holden
than any other car?
★ HOLDEN is the lowest priced
6-cylinder car you can buy.
★ HOLDEN is the only car to combine
30 m.p.g. economy with 6-cylinder, 21
h.p. performance.
★ Feature for feature HOLDEN gives
you better value.
Figures for the first 9 months of this year
show that Holden is more popular than ever.
Up till the end of September 16,399 Holden
Sedans have been sold this is almost
DOUBLE any other single model.
★ There are two Air Chief Radios
specially designed for Holden.
★ Convenient hire purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C. General
Motors’ own finance company.
gfg
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
So/d and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
almost for its own sake. And
this eccentricity—if that is the
right word —seems to have a
leaning towards the contem-
plative, the scholarly and the
literary rather than the absurd.
It is expressed in the stories one
hears about Upper Murray per-
sonalities, Professor Watson,
for instance (the Watsons had
Tooma station before the present
owners, the O’Keefes), who was
a Professor of Anatomy of
Adelaide University after taking
his medical degree in Berlin.
(After, it is whispered, an adven-
turous youth that included
blackbirding.)
Professor Watson, it is said,
was only too delighted to dissect
a bullock for the instruction of
a stockman. He took a keen
interest in geology, and was
happy to pass on his knowledge.
And, it is said, it was nothing
for the professor, in an excess
of professional zeal, to whip a
mole from a startled stockman’s
face with an impulsive flash of
his blade; or to send a sick
child to the city for specialist
treatment at his own expense.
Professor Watson wore the
cheapest clothes, and was careful
with money and left a modest
fortune. And everywhere on the
Upper Murray he is talked of
with affection and respect.
On the Upper Murray I was
always hearing about Professor
Watson ; the Mitchells ; Colonel
Chisholm, of Khancoban;
Sydney Jephcott and his trees.
There is great interest in families,
not a little snobbery, and what
may be termed “a decent pride.”
For quiet hauteur I like the story
of a lady who, on being: informed
by a very young man that he was
entitled to special consideration
as the grandson of a wealthy
knight, replied: ‘Your grand-
father deserves great credit for
rising from office-boy to the
position he eventually held.
But my ancestors were fortunate
in not being obliged to start as
office-boys.”
I was told of an extraordinary
scene when Tom Mitchell
addressed a political meeting,
reciting the names of the Upper
Murray families who had taken
part in war. “The O’Keefes, the
Whiteheads, the Patons ...”
A roll-call as long as your arm.
The audience were on their feet,
cheering to the echo.
At another meeting a
welcome - home to returned
soldiers —a fine old Upper
Murray character told his hearers
how glad he was to see them:
“And now you’re back, the first
thing to do is get stuck into the
rabbits! ”
“You’ve got rabbits on the
brain,” a young returned man
who had been anticipating some
livelier form of entertainment
called out.
“Maybe. But I won’t have
them on my land.”
Tom Mitchell seemed a
peculiarly suitable representative
of these people. A dark, stocky
man, wearing colored glasses, he
came into the room with brisk
steps ; with, as it were, a stir. He
marched across the room and
kissed his wife. Then turned
around and was introduced.
An officer in the Bth Division,
Tom Mitchell was a prisoner of
the Japs.
Joan Maginnity being inter-
ested in skiing, the conversation
veered that way, Elyne Mitchell
(I obtain this information from
the publisher’s note to A ustralia’s
Alps ) is a member of ski clubs
in a whole string of different
countries —even Chile. She—
ah —raced for Victoria in the
inter-State races in 1937 and
1939, and for Australia against
the New Zealanders in 1937,
and was nominated to race for
Australia in the Federation Inter-
nationale de Sport in Poland in
1939. She won the Canadian
National Downhill Champion-
ship (women) at Banff in 1938,
the Inter-Dominion Slalom at
Kosciusko in 1937 and the Vic-
torian Championship at Mt.
Buffer in 1939. She has ski-
toured in N.Z., U.S.A., Canada,
Chile and the Argentine. And
her husband has, I believe, even
more formidable qualifications.
The talk switched to the
mountains, with the Maginnitys
and the Mitchells tossing moun-
tains between them like a lively
quartet of seals. Rob’s Knob,
Black Jack, the Bogongs, Pin-
nabar, Tom Groggin, Townsend,
Jagungal “the lion,” Findlay’s
Lookout, the Grey Mare. All
completely fascinating stuff, but
a little difficult for the uninitiated
to follow. More names—Pretty
Plain, the Toolong Diggings,
Swampy River and Wild Cow
Flat.
The Mitchells’dark-eyed child
made a brief appearance. She is
called Indi, after the river.
JS We T n im ° S'
garden I remarked on the
splendid profusion of trees,
Mitchell paused, and peered
critically at a slender, closely-
leafed tree. “Some of these
European trees are getting in bad
shape—my father used to trim
them with a rifle.’
“Really ?”
“Oh, yes. He was a crack shot,
you know. On a sunny day he
would sit out here with a rifle
and trim the trees.”
Before we,left we were shown
the stables and the two sires, the
Australian and the imported one.
“Pity you missed the yearlings,”
our host said. “They look
wonderful tearing round down
there.” He waved an arm
towards the high-grassed flat,
dotted with cattle. I remembered
that the Mitchells had Trafalgar
on Bringenbrong.
We were shown the broad-axe
marks, clean as plane-cuts, on
the mountain-ash of the stables,
and were told the names of the
two men who built it. And the
Maginnity girls, Joan and
Monica, talked horses. (Monica
won the Tasmanian Oaks a
few years ago with one of
her horses. The Maginnitys
belong to a vanishing breed of
small owners who race for the
sport. And they have kept on
a line which began with a mare
brought from Kimo, at
Gundagai.)
When we arrived at Tooma
first Joan Maginnity said:
“You’ll have to go and see Mr.
Jephcott and see his trees.” (He
has since passed on.)
I found him, an elderly gentle-
man with a King George V
beard, resting, surrounded by
green apples. Clearly he was not
expecting visitors. But when I
told him two Miss Maginnitys
had come to visit him, he seized
his walking-stick and came out
in a twinkling. He greeted them
with —it is an overworked phrase
but, really, there is no other —a
courtly grace. I was introduced,
and he showed me a stack of
Bulletins, including a Jubilee
issue in which he had honorable
mention.
For this was Sydney Jephcott
the poet. Also the tree-lover.
He took us down to see his trees.
And they were worth coming a
long way to see; a cedar from
the Atlas Mountains ; Lebanon
cedar ; English oaks ; olive-leafed
oak (the chief timber-tree of the
Apennines); cork-oak, which is
stronger than commercial cork ;
dog-oak (which is really a
maple); Portuguese oak (a hard-
wood); Italian evergreen oaks;
beautiful French black poplars ;
a tall straight Californian red-
wood ; American buttonwood;
Californian red maple ; American
ash, which is the chief timber-
tree on the Mississippi, and
which, in buildings in Mexico
and Florida, has been found to
be sound as a bell after 400
years’ use. And Spanish bitter-
orange, Glastonbury thorn,
Queensland bunya-bunya, Syrian
plane-tree and North American
plane, deciduous cypress, Canary
Island pine and Corsican or
Sardinian pine, which is used to
make feluccas.' Trees from the
Punjabi, and trees I lost track
of, as Mr. Jephcott strode ahead
of us down the broken ground
by the water, forgetting his stick
twice in his eagerness and
absorption in his hobby,
He was in his 80’s. And once,
as 1 hastily tried to scribble down
a Latin name, he glanced across
from two yards away and said
“Use a small c.” He was not
wearing glasses,
He talked, too, about litera-
ture. Pointing to’a magnificent
redgum he said: “Look at that!
Wouldn’t Judith Wright make a
fine poem of that?”
He had a facility for spon-
taneous vivid phrases. Talking
°f the Bogongs, he described a
flight of bogong moths as “a
narrow snowstorm.” A poet he
described as “something like a
Spanish brigand to look at. As
tall and wide as a door. And
when he laughed every window
in George-street rattled.”
“You’ll be back,” said Sydney
Jephcott, as we went . , .
I went back to the Upper
Murray; but .that’s another
story,
3


Public Notices
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from persons, etc.,
insuring with any insurance
company not registered in New
South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Aot,
1909-1&49.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
ations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other Fire
District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an in-
surance company not registered in the
State ; are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the
said property to such insurance com-
panies during the year 1952.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st
January, 1953, subject to a penalty not
exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default.
Note; Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in
any Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales,
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from insurance com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December, 1952;
within the Sydney Fire District and every
other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of rein-
surance to any other insurance companies
contributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or. before the 31st January,
1953, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales,
A. L. STARK. Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ARTS
Circular Charts for ail types
of Recording instruments
tor any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
SoetMT iM'Mlwi Cm< QIMMMi
'O*SULUVAN%L«
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
JACK
Missing Next-of-kin
ERNEST HAROLD WATKINSON, for-
merly of Kyneton, Victoria, a brother of
SUSAN WATKINSON, late of Ararat, Vic-
toria, who died intestate on the Third day
of September, 1949, or, if he predeceased
the said deceased, any child or children
of his who survived the said deceased
would be entitled to a share of the estate
of the said deceased. Unless the said Ernest
Harold Watkinson, or any person claiming
through him or as one of his issue, claims
from the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, of 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, the admini-
strator of the estate, a share of the estate
before the expiration of six months from
the date of publication hereof, the estate
will be distributed as if Ernest Harold
Watkinson had predeceased the said Susan
Watkinson without issue.
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
wm
■sTS
H
M
m
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE GIRL!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t have to win her “by a whisker” ... it
was that smooth, clean-shaven look. Your shave,
too, will look good and feel good with Palmolive —
the Shaving Cream that gives better shaves to 3
men out of every 4. Here’s the proof: 1,251 men
tried it ... 81% reported “Beards easier to cut!”
. . . 76% said “Less razor pull” . . .71% said
“Closer shaves.” . . . 80% found "Smoother-feeling
skin.” Judge it yourself. Join the ranks of
successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
The shaving cream
of successful men
BANKERS • / EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWVERS
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” A Review of Markets, Financial
Conditions, Company Accounts, Mining Activities. Published by
“The Bulletin.” Price 2/-.
r
*
_
rr?
Hid
Professor plans Flying Palace
VIENNA 1804
'N ROFESSOR ROBERT-
( ' J /J SON has designed a
stupendous aircraft
to carry sixty passengers
on a six-months non-stop
flight of scientific observation.
The giant has a 3-decker gon-
dola containing kitchen, store,
laboratories, music room,
cabins and ladies’ withdraw-
ing room. Surmounting the
machine, symbolising vigil-
ance, will be an effigy of a
rooster, so enormous as to con-
tain an observatory in its eye.
“Aircraft design should be
bolder,” said the Professor.
“If you think that six months
is overdoing it, remember that
there is no ground service yet.
It will, for example, be many
years before somebody invents
the BP Aviation Service for
quick, efficient refuelling.”
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.. All States.
Vv‘‘V\£ iV ‘ - ' <'>' ■’ ''
An Associate of Anglo-1 ranian Oil Company, Limited, London.
/ ...
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Bushman and
Buccaneer: Harry Morant: His ’Ven-
tures and Verse by “Frank Renar”
(Frank Fox).—5391.
To buy copy of The Fire on the
Snow and the Golden Lover by
Douglas Stewart.—5390.
Whereabouts of Patrick McKee
Wright, who was within recent years
in Bathurst (N.5.W.).—5389.
Words of “Con’s Song” by Mary
Durack.—5387.
To buy copy of The Bulletin of
December 12, 1945.—5386.
Print of Livingston Hopkins’s
Bulletin cartoon on the death of
Sir Henry Parkes.—5385.
Print of old David Low cartoon
entitled “The Village Taxsmith.” —
5384.
To buy copy of I Saw a Strange
Land by Arthur Groom.—5381.
Words of Australian verse entitled
“The Two-up King.”—s3B2.
Words and author of poem “Jack’s
Last Muster,” beginning;
The first flush of greylight, the herald of
daylight,
Is dimly outlining the musterers’ camp.
—5383.
To buy copy of The Butterfly Man
by Marie Conway .Oemler.—5392.
Information Sought
Who was author of “Tales for the
Bush {1845)?
Mary Theresa Vidal. Her Tales for
the Bush, published in parts, was the
first separate work written by a
woman to be published in Australia.
Of her 11 books only three deal with
Australia. She was born in 1818, and
came to Australia with her husband,
the Reverend Francis Vidal, in 1840.
He was incumbent at Penrith until
1845, when the family returned to
England. Mrs. Vidal was a sister of
William Cory, poet and historian.
She died in 1869.
* * * *
Who wrote the lines:
The pangs that guard the gates of joy,
the cruel sword that will be kist,
how distant seemed they to the boy—
white flashes in the rosy mist!
They were written by Chris
Brennan, and were first printed as
part of an untitled poem on the
“Red Page” of The Bulletin on
September 17, 1898.
* * * *
When did Britain and Australia go
off the gold standard? Why did they
do so ?
The first time was in 1915, when
the exchange-rate on New York was
favorable to the export of gold, which
began to leave Britain. Had the pre-
war gold standard continued to be
recognised, this would have led to
credit-contraction, which would have
interfered with the prosecution of
the war. The British Government
naturally held that observance of the
rules of the gold standard was less
important than winning the war, and
the melting-down of gold coin was
forbidden. The Australian ' Govern-
ment followed this lead. In April,
1925, however, the British Govern-
ment announced its decision to return
immediately to gold. Australia again
followed (suit, On September 21,
1931, Britain once more abandoned
gold, following heavy drain by French
and American lenders on the Bank
of England’s gold reserves in 1928-29
and in 1931. This time she left gold
because the resultant deflation if the
“rules” were observed was considered
to be too costly. Though it was
expected in some quarters that soar-
ing commodity prices and other infla-
tionary evils would follow, prices
remained steady; the suspension of
gold was not a prelude to inflation
but a guard against too drastic defla-
tion. Australia this time had already
left the gold standard (in December,
1929). Here the ensuing economic
experience was similar to Britain’s.
* * * *
What is hyperbole?
A figure-of-speech in which the
bounds of strict veracity are overshot,
not to deceive but for the sake ot
emotion, emphasis or humor.
Examples are “tons of money,” “a
thousand apologies,” “to run with
the speed of an arrow.” In literature
there is Pope’s
Belinda smiled, and all the world was gay.
Brief Answers
F.S.P.: Under the Constitution the
Commonwealth Government’s powers
to interfere with the conduct of
industry are limited to the powers
over trade and commerce with other
countries and among the States (51,
i) and defence (51, vi). Most of the
Commonwealth Government’s intru-
sion into business enterprise is the
result of war-time proceedings.
Indeed, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment did not levy any income-tax
until the necessity arose after World
War I began... .R.L.J.: John Arthur
Barry, author of Steve Brown’s
Bunyip, was born at Torquay, Devon,
in 1850... .F.L.: Aids to Psychiatry
by W. S. Dawson, published by
Bailliere, Tindall and Cox, London.
. ...R.H.A.: The name “New South
Wales” was given to the eastern part
(then known as New Holland) on its
discovery by Captain Cook in 1770,
and for 57 years all Australian terri-
tory east of longitude 135 deg. east
was known by that name. .. .R.K.M.:
New South Wales Aboriginal Place
Names and Euphonious Words, with
Their Meanings, compiled by
Frederick D. McCarthy and pub-
lished by the Australian Museum,
College-street, Sydney.... H.N.O’D :
Write the British Book of the Month
Club, Box 4657, G.P.0., Sydney....
W.M.R.: From the British Broad-
casting Corporation, Broadcasting
House, London, W. 1... .1.M.G.:
Handy Hints for the Farm is now
out of print. Suggest that you write
to the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment, Farrer-place, Sydney, for a
catalogue of their publications on
farming matters, then order what you
require R.J.W.: The quotation is
from “Hamlet,” and should read
“There’s a divinity that shapes our
ends, rough-hew them how we will.”
... .H.J.D.: “With Self - clipped
Wings” by Harold Mercer appeared
in The Bulletin of June 25, 1952.
relief.” So did we, Brother Robert.
. ...F.H.F.: An artistic extract:—
On the Nose.
I was looking at some oil-paintings at
an Art Gallery
When a chap carrying a step-ladder stops
near me;
“Hullo, having a preview of the pic-
tures ?” he said—•
Climbs up the step-ladder to the ceiling
and shakes his head.
He looks down at me , and said, “Artists
are l a funny lot of blokes.”
Points his finger, “Look at that picture
over there, it’s a hoax.
Those funny sort of pictures are on the
nose,” he said;
“I would rather have ships and sails and
things instead.”
... .A.S.H.; Stories that begin “As
I walked up the gravelled drive that
weird, moonless night I had a strange
premonition that 1 was to be the
plaything of the godjs’ 1 ' invariably
end up in the .basket H.W.C.:
Your green-eyed warlock did not
catch the editorial eye L.L.:
Uriah Heep had nothing on your
Mr. Pennywhistle, who in the course
of a few pages “sang small,” “piped
down,” “drew in his horns,” “hid his
diminished head,” “ate humble pie,”
“ate dirt” and “pocketed an affront.”
.... G.N.: Unless you have been to
those remote regions do not try to
write about them... .L.P.: It may be
the finest story in the world, but the
unreadable handwriting made it im-
possible to decide 8.E.: It put
the Religious Editor on a jag for a
week... .T.S.: A poor beginning, a
feeble middle and a weak ending....
J.L.M.: Others have said the same
thing much more brightly.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.S.D.H.: It would only make our
readers blush D.C.; Circus story
fell into the safety-net K.N-M.:
Told with a certain amount of dash,
but it petered out towards the end.
M.M.M.: “If you buy this yarn
I will shout you a beer.” We wouldn’t
buy it if you presented us with a
brewery... .P.McM.: It was knocked
out in the first round... .W.J.K.;
Truth, as you say, may be stranger
than fiction, but you make it com-
pletely unbelievable... .H.D.: We
thought that we had scotched that
type of yam years ago... .F.S.: Sub-
ject lost its topicality weeks ag0....
R.W.: “As Winstanley hurled him-
self beneath the oncoming express-
train the fair Julia breathed a sigh of


An Ideal
Christmas
Gift—
" The Letters
of
Rachel
Henning
Illustrated by Norman
Lindsay with over 40
superb pen-drawings
•
Price, 7/6
•
Obtainable at bookshops, or
at “The Bulletin” offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or
Sydney. Or post-free from
The Book Department
“The Bulletin"
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
DESIGN: No. 8; HEIGHT: 37J"l
WIDTH: 6'6i"; PRICE (at works):
£l2/18/6
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and "Kosi", "Wonderheat" and
“Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
Tm
rIREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
Personal and Missing Friends
WOULD MRS. MARGARET PALMER,
formerly of Romahapa, South Otago, New
Zealand, or anyone knowing her where-
abouts, communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Dunedin. New Zea-
land?
TO FRANK ORAWSHAW formerly of
The Clare Castle Hotel Exhibition
Street Melbourne in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife MARJORIE LIL-
LIAN CRAWSHAW of 183 Richardson
Street Middle Park in the said State has
instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion UN-
LESS you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the 7th
day of January 1953 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs. If you intend to
defend the suit you must also file an
answer in the said Office on or before the
10th day of February 1953. —LOUIS S.
LAZARUS, Solicitor, of 379 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice
TO DAVID FREDERICK LAPTHORNE
CROOKES Motor Body Builder address
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
LILLIE MAY CROOKES has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of separation of the parties
for a continuous period of not less than
five years there being no reasonable likeli-
hood of cohabitation being resumed IP
you desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within THIRTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your so
doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce Judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 28th day of November, 1952.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED
CURRAN ESQ., of 37-38 Padbury Build-
ings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the State
of Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
THE
Australian Provincial Assurance
ASSOCIATION liTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W.
Address by Chairman of Directors E. J. Thompson to Shareholders at the
4lst Annual General Meeting held on Friday, 28th November, 1952.
In moving the adoption of the Balance Sheet and the Directors’ Report on
the accounts for the year I desire to point out some of the important features
and submit my comments on the year’s operations.
New Business. The volume of new business written during the year, less
reassurances, showed an increase compared with the previous year, the figures
being 2193 policies for sums assuring in total £1,754,722 against 2497 policies
A, 1(678,388 in the previous year. The average sum assured was £BOO compared
with £672, and it is significant that this average has been rising steadily since
1947 when it was £323.
Expense Bate. Commission and expenses of management absorbed 27%
of the premium income or 21% of the total income. The corresponding percentages
for the preceding financial year were 25% and 20% respectively.
The Board has been greatly concerned at these rising cost percentages, and
has devoted its attention to their reduction. With this object in view, it has
discriminated in / the types of assurances written so as to avoid or curtail those
involving higher administrative costs, and generally has concentrated on the better
type of new business so as to reduce the loss by lapses and surrenders.
Mortality Experience. The mortality experience was again favourable, death
claims being 49% of the amount expected according to the valuation tables as
compared with 60% for the preceding year.
w Actuarial Valuation. In arriving at the surplus for* the year in the Life
Fund, the basis of the actuarial valuation was the same as has been in use for
some years past, assurances being valued by the net premium method using Om
mortality tables with 2J% interest.
Interest Bate. The net effective rate of interest (i.e., after deducting Income
Tax) earned on the Statutory Life Fund (including reserve funds) was £3/8/5 per
cent, as compared with £3/4/11 per cent, for the preceding year. This decline
is traceable largely to the decreased net rental return from the Company’s freehold
properties. Increased rates, taxes, cleaning, wages and the high cost of repairs
have not been fully recouped by increased rents due to the delays in hearing
applications to the Fair Rents Boards. This lag between rising costs and rental
adjustments represents a serious loss to property owners generally, and in the
case of your Company it has brought returns down to almost nil from some
properties, while in all others the return is inadequate compared with the earnings
from other comparable investments.
In my last address to shareholders, I referred to this subject an similar terms,
and expressed amazement at the Government’s apparent lack of Concern, which is
operating to discourage the investments of funds in new office and residential buildings in
Australia. It is to be hoped that things will not deteriorate to the degree that they
have in some European countries where property owning can be such a liability
that the owner may be forced to flee or go into hiding like a criminal in an
endeavour to escape the liability for the levies placed on his property.
i. Y ij Ur - Board has > during recent years, taken steps to dispose of many of its
freehold investments because of this trend towards unprofitable returns, and during
the year under review has made sales totalling £8924. Over the last four years
reductions effected in this asset by sales and depreciation written off amounted
to £90,054.
Fife Department Surplus. The Directors’ Report shows that the surplus
arising from Life Assurance business amounted to £80,913, including a balance
of £9014 brought forward from the previous year, and that, after allotting a bonus
to Policyholders amounting to £71,864, there is a carry forward of £9049.
The bonus allotted to Policyholders this year was at the same rate as the
previous year, but by reason of the growth of the Association’s business, it required
a larger sum, namely, £71,864, compared with £64,864, and shareholders will
appreciate the need for maintaining these bonus rates in order to be able to
compete with other life offices.
Profit and Doss Account (General Fund). The profit amounted to £42,944
compared with £40,221 for the preceding year.
Comparing the Profit and Loss Account figures for the two years, it will be
seen that this year’s results represented a decrease of £1477, brought about by
the failure of the Life Fund to make a contribution equal to last year ( £4200),
less the increased results from the General Fund amounting to £2723. Last year
the net profit result was equal to nearly 12J% on capital, while this year it was
just short of 12%.
Dividend. It will be seen that the Board is recommending the same rate
of dividend as last year, namely, 6%, representing a distribution of approximately
half the year’s profits.
Consideration was given to lifting the rate this year, but it was decided to
postpone _ determination until next year on account of the unstable economic
outlook in Australia. The factors in the situation which influenced the Board’s
view of the future were (1) the continuance of inflationary conditions and tendencies
which are seriously raising costs of production and forcing prices of goods to
uneconomic levels, and (2) lack of funds for capital purposes which is retarding
business generally and tending to undermine confidence, which basic causes have
already had an effect on the Association’s financial position.
Until the Board is in a better position to foresee the future regarding business
costs and some definite signs of stabilisation in market values, it is felt that the
more prudent course, even if less popular, would be to transfer £20,000 of the
year’s profits to Property and Investment Reserves. It was, therefore, a disappoint-
ment to the Board that it could not conscientiously recommend an increase in the
rate of dividend, but shareholders will be pleased to learn that the Board has decided
to commence in July next to pay HALF-YEARLY DIVIDENDS. In deciding upon
July as the date for the interim dividend, it avoids payment of more than a full
year’s dividend in the taxation financial year ending 30th June.
Assets. Comparing the Association’s assets, the following important movements
have taken place during the year: Increases in Loans on Mortgage, £34,751 ; Loans
on Policies, £9157 ; Government l Securities, £93,917 ; Local and Semi-Government
Securities, £83,908; Shares in Companies, £99,672 ; other Investments, £10,000;
and decreases in Freehold Properties, £17,973; and other assets, £2644.
A statement is given hereunder of the proportions of the different classes of
assets held at the 30th September, 1952, together with a comparison with previous
years:—
100 100 100 100
Before concluding this address, for the particular benefit of new shareholders,
I would like to give the following figures showing the remarkable progress which
has been made during the last decade:—
Premium Income has grown from £274,000 to £571,800.
Income from interest, rents and dividends has increased from £91,300
to £152.800.
Surplus and Profits in 1942 amounted to £40,300, while today they
total £123.800.
Bonus Allotted to Policyholders in 1942 was £16,895 compared with
£71,864 today.
Fife Assurance Funds in 1942 were £2,325,000, and today they are
£8,952,300.
Assets have increased from £2,988,200 to £4,904,000.
Reserves in, 1942 amounted to £lOO,OOO, while today they are £841,352.
Conclusion. Before closing this address, I should like to express appreciation
of the services of all members of the staff who have made possible these very
satisfactory results.
Shopping
by Betty Martin
I MET my small-town neigh-
bor, the Balt, round an
island window of a city
furniture-store. He was jubi-
lant at the sight of me.
“What are you doing here?”
I asked.
He countered gaily “What
you do?”
Along these lines I was about
to remark that it was a small
world when his face clouded.
“I been seek,” he said. “Belly
no good,”
“Oh, I am sorry,” I sympa-
thised. “Was it something you
ate?”
“I ate not all today,” he said.
“I com down yesterday to buy
truck, but they want eyeteen
ondered. They keep ’em.”
“It’s a lot of money,” I said.
“Too moch.” Then he
brightened and grabbed my
wrist. “Com wis,” he said, “aqd
help me do shopping.”
“What do you want to buy?”
“Some graab-frood and raadio-
gram for a prasent for my
voive and velvet coat for the
byeby what you call cordoy.”
“Is the grape-fruit for your
wife, too?” I asked,
“For belly,” he explained,
dragging me along by my string-
bag.
As we entered the fruit-shop
a heavy face studded with dark
brooding eyes menaced us be-
tween the tiered Jonathans, He
swept back the little serving
wench and advanced, hissing an
inquiry.
“Graab - frood,” stated the
Balt.
Two padded hands shot up
ballooning fingers, I interpreted
the gesture as a distress-signal
and explained, “He wants grape-
fruit.”
Again the balloons inflated.
“Spidelli for grape-fruit,” he
said in a tone so truculent I
hastened to appease,
“Oh, undoubtedly,” I said.
“The best spot on earth for
grape-fruit.”
“Spidelli,” he said aggressively.
“If you have Spidelli grape-
fruit,” I said, “I’ll have some
too"; they’re sun-ripened.”
He gave me a look so dark
and unfathomable that I
faltered. “Mildura, too,” I said
weakly. “They grow awfully
good citrus-fruit at Mildura.”
Here he nodded agreement.
“Spidelli, though,” he said.
I was about to concur that
Mildura fruit was not a patch
on Spidelli when the serving-
wench leaned across a box of
tomatoes and said distinctly
“He means it’s a bit early,”
| HASTILY withdrew my
* Baltic neighbor, who asked
“Why won’t he sell us any?”
We proceeded to the radio-
shop. We were met by a slen-
der, glinting knife of a man who
could not conceal a steel-grey
animosity on hearing the twist
of my neighbor’s tongue.
“Raadiograms,” said the Balt,
producing a clipping from an
evening paper. “You have one
here sheep.”
“Yes,” said the salesman, “for
what part?”
“I want all der parts.”
“He lives in South Gipps-
land,” I explained.
“No good for South Gipps-
land,” said the salesman.
“That’s why I asked.”
“Why Souse Gippsland is no
good?” queried the Balt.
“No good at all. No, sir, I
wouldn’t sell it to you. Terrible
place for interference,”
“I not wish to interfere wis
anyone,” said the Balt sincerely.
“This gentleman means,” I
clarified, “that Gippsland radios
have a lot of electrical interfer-
ence and a poor reception. Is
the radio too weak?” I asked
the salesman.
“Too weak for Gippsland,”
said the salesman. •
“I was strong man before I
was in concentration-camp,”
said the Balt.
“Sir,” said the salesman con-
strainedly, “I have nothing
against you. I have nothing
against Gippsland. But this
radiogram is not suitable to the
place where you live. It has
only three valves. You need a
five-valve.”
“Pity,” said the Balt, putting
away his newspaper clipping.
“I can show you others,” said
the salesman diffidently.
“Show me?” requested the
Balt hopefully.
“The cheapest is fifty-nine
guineas.”
“Ah!” said the Balt.
“And this model here we can
do you for sixty-five, it’s a
beautiful thing. That one over
there goes at ninety-five; we
have them up to two-fifty-fiye,
if you care to go as far as that.”
“Show me,” said the Balt.
\\ 7ITH evident distrust of his
** customer’s pocket-book,
the salesman displayed his
various consoles. “My voive
like dark wood,” said the Balt.
“His wife,” I said. “Perhaps
you could let us hear one.”
“Certainly,” said the sales-
man. He opened the fifty-nine
model and put on “Girls Were
Made to Love and Kiss.”
We listened critically, and
when the record dropped my
neighbor asked “Why he stop
short?”
“That’s the end of the record,”
I said. “Now could we hear the
sixty-five model?”
Again, over the noise of an
orchestral number in the same
cubicle, we heard that girls
were made to love and kiss and
who was the late Richard
Tauber to interfere in this.
“Now this one,” said the Balt,
and the salesman went toward
it like a blackfish tugging on a
string. He seemed unnerved at
the prospect of running Richard
Tauber through all his expen-
sive models. Twisting with
trembling fingers he dislodged a
bakelite knob.
“Ah, broken already,” mur-
mured the Balt sadly.
“It’s not broken,” contra-
dicted the salesman, grappling
with the tone arm. “It’s a bit
stiff, that’s all.”
AFTER a few more auditions
of the same record we re-
turned to the fifty-nine model.
“I like the wood best,” said the
Balt, “I like the tone,” I said.
“me wood?” queried the
Balt. “Is it right? Is it pint for
wise-ance?”
The salesman turned to me,
but I, too, was bamboozled.
“Wise-ance,” said the Balt
patiently. “You pint de wood
wis stuff to keep out wise-ance.”
“White-ants,” I said finally.
“Oh, sir,” deprecated the
salesman. “There are no white-
ants here. This is new wood.”
“Very new,” sighed the Balt.
“But even a new contry can
have wise-ance, eh? But I take
him. I give you sheck for him
now.”
The salesman’s face took on
the veneer of a high-priced con-
sole. He hastened to explain.
Naturally the cheque would
have to be cleared; that would
take a few days.
“Your money is as good as
mine,” he conceded. “As good as
this lady’s. I have nothing
against foreigners. Nothing at
all. You’ll speak good English
some day. We want you to for-
get you’re foreigners and to
settle down and learn to be good
Australians.”
“I’m a dressmaker,” I inter-
jected, “and I still can’t work
without a pattern.”
But we left the shop in a glow
of achievement which the icy
blast of the street could not
quench.
“Ko vince,” said the Balt,
rolling up his collar against the
wind. “Now a velvet coat for
der byeby, what you call
cordoy.”
WE went together to the
draper’s, and on the way he
shook me by the string-bag. “I
tank you moch,” he said, “for
help me buy that raadiogram.
Now I can hear raackord of my
own language.”


FRENCH
[Corn Cure 1
I Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
[Anthony Horderns’]
100
YEARS
1852
fh
1952
The dictates of elegance
and fashion have always
been reflected in the
beautiful designs of Lavina
Watches treasured by
generations of discrimin-
ating women as pieces
of exquisite personal
jewellery.
M
mum
WATCHES
-j jevNelleol
Mas/ er pj eceS
LW26.61
Protect your eyes this Summer
■
Y I / TO
with smart
SUN
GLASSES
ham
ESDAILE'S
For ladies fashion right
Polaroids in the latest colours
and patterns. For men —-sturdy,
hard-wearing frames with the mas-
culine touch ! All glasses are optically
correct. Write, ’phone or call —
E. ESDAILE & SONS PTY. LTD.
42 Hunter Street, Sydney. BW 8631
SPORTING NOTIONS
Running of the Christmas Cup
at Rosehill this coming Satur-
day should determine prospects
for the AJ.C. Summer Cup at
Randwick on Boxing Day. Rac-
ing at Rosehill last Saturday was
of no value as a line on the
Summer Cup, but it did clear the
atmosphere in relation to the first
leg of the Randwick double,
the mile Villiers Stakes, run on
December 20. Forest Beau was
responsible for a strikingly
brilliant win in the Festival
Handicap, seven furlongs, in
1.25, a second outside the race
record. Had he been pressed at
any stage he could have hoisted
new figures. Forest Beau will go
to the post for the Villiers a
•popular contender. He carried
8.13 on Saturday, but drops a
couple of pounds in the longer
race. Carioca, who was with-
drawn from his Rosehill engage-
ment, has 8.2 at Randwick. He
was handicapped at 8.10 last
Saturday, so on figures Forest
Beau might have the job ahead
to down him in the mile. Much
will depend on Carioca’s per-
formance at Rosehill this coming
Saturday—provided he starts.
Mercury won the Villiers last
Summer with 7.5. He has Bst.
on this occasion and on his third
to Forest Beau at Rosehill, after
being one of the last two at
the three furlongs, has prospects
of landing a second Villiers,
though no horse has achieved
this in recent years. Mercury
hasn’t done much for the best
part of a year, but he is well
forward in condition and should
soon rejoin the list of winners.
Tossing ran much below expec-
tations at Rosehill, but he carried
superfluous flesh and could be
improved by the run. Pondi-
cherry, another Villiers candi-
date, stylishly won the Welter
at Rosehill, and with 7st. in the
mile appears to have a nice pull
in the weights.
Elmshall, winner of the two-
year-old sprint at Rosehill for
fillies, was having her first race
run. An unusual feature of the
win was that her dam, Founda-
tion, also won at the same track
at her first public appearance
and by half-a-dozen lengths,
Elmshall, raced by Mrs. D. L.
Crowley, carries the same colors
as Flight, who was raced by
Brian Crowley, an A.J.C. com-
mitteeman, and which also won
at her first race start at Rand-
wick, at 33 to 1. Flight was
Australia’s greatest winning
mare, with 24 successes and
£30,627 in stakes. Elmshall has
something to live up to ere she
can approach Flight’s imposing
record, but her Saturday earn-
ings, £620, was a start. She is
by Confessor (imp.) from Foun-
dation, which traces back to
Musket (imp.) sire of Carbine.
• • • •
Seacraft, winner of the colts’
division of Rosehill Two-year-
old Maiden, cost ISOOgns. as a
yearling and earned £616 stake-
money. No doubt connections
profited handsomely, as the colt,
never better than 2 to 1, started
at 5 to 4. He is raced by Mrs.
W. B. Sawyer, and is a member
of the successful Tommy Smith
stable. Smith bought the colt
for his country patron. A half-
brother to Henry the Fifth, a
good winner in Melbourne, Sea-
craft is by Channel Swell (imp.)
from Midsea by Midstream
(imp.) from Helensbrook (half-
sister to Gold Rod) by Limond
(imp.) from Oreum by King
John (imp.) from that grand
mare Desert Gold, winner of
36 races and £23,133 in stakes.
Gold Rod won the A.J.C. Epsom
and Doncaster and £19,120 in
stakes. With such a background
Seacraft could develop into quite
a smart performer.
Melbourne two-year-old colts
Walu and Sea Girt are a smart
pair. They had a keen set-to
for the Clayton Stakes at Flem-
ington on Saturday, Walu gain-
ing the lead in the final few
strides. Sea Girt was favorite
at two’s, with Walu at 5 to 2
and long odds about most of
the remainder. Walu is a son of
St. Magnus (imp.) from Pao-
shan, a mare bred in 1940, and
by Parenthesis (imp.) from
Varietas by Drake (imp.). Sea
Girt is a Dhoti (imp.) colt, and
his breeding lines have been
described on this page. Former
cross-country jockey Ernie Sel-
lers piloted the winner. His
opponent on Sea Girt was crack
horseman Jack Purtell.
Sydney’s leading jockey
Neville Sellwood didn’t have
much luck at the recent Mel-
bourne Cup meeting, but he has
struck the right note since re-
turning home. Seven winners
in two Saturdays is an achieve-
ment for any horseman, and Sell-
wood, who has been riding for
nearly 13 years, was never in
better form than at latest meet-
ings. His four Randwick suc-
cesses were followed by three
more at Rosehill. Sellwood had
an easy task on Elmshall and on
Daily Paper, but he had to ride
hard to get Dual Colors to do
its best. Sellwood never gives
up. A few other jockeys would
do well to follow his example.
Sydney sportsman Maurice
Whitten, who with Mrs. Whitten
has returned from a holiday trip
to Colombo, saw most of the
Australian jockeys riding at
meetings held by Ceylon Turf
Club, Arthur Stead is the lead-
ing rider. Others who have done
well this season include Jack
O’Sullivan, Jack Parsons, Len
Sawyer and Frank Smith.
Parsons is back in Sydney on
holiday, but returns to the East
at the end of January. Some
jockeys are making big money,
but file cost of living is high.
Sawyer rode a winning treble
while the Whittens were in
Colombo. Facilities in the
Members’ stand (Ceylon T.C.)
leave nothing to be desired and
members enjoy every comfort.
Pomp and ceremony are
features of Colombo racing.
The Governor - General’s
attendants are colorfully dressed
in scarlet uniforms with gold
pipings and their hair is done
up at the back in a bun. After
the running of the recent Lanka
Cup the owner filled the Cup
with champagne and passed it
round to immediate friends. The
Cup-winner was ridden by
former Sydney jockey Len
Sawyer, who has had a long run
of success in the East. Colombo
is likely to introduce the Sydney
electric starting - gates soon.
Ceylon T.C.’s new president,
E. F. N. Gratiaen, has returned
home from Australia after mak-
ing inquiries into the mechanical
method of race-starting.
“Hop out till I git 'im in, Joe”
Count Seven won his first race,
a Hawkesbury two-year-old
Maiden, in promising style. He
is another member of the suc-
cessful T. J. Smith Randwick
team. Smith three days later
won at Rosehill with ailother
two-year-old, Seacraft. Count
.Seven, who had shown pace in
Randwick barrier-trials, is a son
of Newtown Wonder (imp.) from
Vera Cruz by Bullhead (imp.)
from Camargo by Magpie
(imp.). Camargo won races at
Remington and at Rosebery.
Former Brisbane galloper
Venidis has brought much grist
to the bookmaker’s mill within
the past four weeks. She came
to Sydney with a sprinting repu-
tation, but so far takers of the
odds have seen little of her
northern brilliance. All she has
done is cost them a lot of money.
The mare had failed for J. Deely
in three races prior to Saturday
last at Rosehill, and the stable
decided to try and break the luck
by engaging leading horseman
N. Sellwood. Venidis started a
hot favorite at 6 to 4 after best
price had been 2’s. Sellwood
rode a good race, but Pondi-
cherry was just a little too solid
at the finish and won by half a
head.
• • • •
When a racehorse attains his
seventh birthday-all advance
one year on August I—he1 —he is
described in the racebook as
“aged.” Should he continue to
race for several more seasons he
still is “aged” to the public.
Why not put exact age of each
horse in racebooks, from and
including his 7th year until he
is retired? Some present turf
veterans should have been
pensioned off at least a season or
more ago. All they do is clutter
up fields and cost optimistic
owners a lot of money. In some
parts of the world racebooks give
exact ages, why not here? It
would interest to know the ages
of some veteran Melbourne
jumpers!
• • • •
There’s always someone with
inside information about a horse
—that is, apart from immediate
connections. Each racetrack in
the metropolitan area has its
snoopers —men with stopwatches
who watch and clock the gal-
lops from vantage-points outside
the race-tracks and benefit from
their observations. They are No.
1 enemy of trainers, and often
spoil a coup. A small band of
early risers, they on occasion
make a lot of money either from
backing a winner they had
noticed galloping in brilliant
fashion or from passing on the
news to others, who pay for the
information. At one racecourse
trainers have decided to bring
under notice of their association
the doings of a certain un-
authorised docker, who is prov-
ing more than a nuisance to
them. His head pops up over
the outside fence near the half-
mile when the fastest gallops
are being run. He is making
full use of the information so
gained, much to the disgust of
trainers.
Sydney and Melbourne two-
year-old form has been well ex-
posed, and, while Love to All has
proved the outstanding filly, the
colts are an even lot, with Apple
Jack probably the best so far.
Class youngsters have been sent
to the paddocks or are resting
at the stables of their trainers
until the hot weather passes.
They will then resume training
for autumn fixtures. Records
show that quite a number of
sprinting two-year-olds of the
spring have not measured up to
the longer distance events of the
following autumn. Most recent
instances were Joy Lad and
Cultured. Melbourne galloper
Pure Fire was an exception, as
he won early sprints on Vic-
torian tracks, then in autumn
landed the V.R.C. Sires Pro-
duce Stakes and A.J.C. Sires
Produce Stakes. However, he has
failed as a stayer at three years.
It’s often impossible for a
jockey to carry out instructions
of a trainer, as in most cases the
rider has to be guided by cir-
cumstances. He rarely knows
how a race is likely to be run
unless it’s a small field. Even
then there can be miscalcula-
tions. Veteran Sydney trainer
Frank Taverna, who once raced
a stayer of some note, Valamita,
doesn’t give his jockey instruc-
tions unless the mount’s taken
by an inexperienced youngster.
Frank is said to have once told
an apprentice boy: “Listen,
sonny, you take no notice of the
other jockeys. Just get to the
front, stay there, and make a
name for yourself.” The diminu-
tive horseman did his best to
stay in front, but his mount
lacked the necessary stamina to
get the lad’s name in the head-
lines.
* * * *
Splendid fielding backing up a
moderately-hostile attack enabled
the S. Africans to keep Aus-
tralia’s first-innings score in the
first Test to 280. Harvey made a
lively century ; Hassett, second-
top-scorer, was (as usual) pain-
fully slow. Melle (6-71) and
Watkins (4-41) took the bowling
honors. In reply S. Africa was
59 short, leg-spinner Ring being
the most successful bowler,
finishing with almost the same
average as Melle’s (6-72), Aus-
tralia’s fielding, with one or two
exceptions, was well below the
visitors’ standard.
In Perth (N.S.W. v. W.A.),
N.S.W. batted first and made
259. The local team, in their
turn at the crease, went to a first-
innings lead with only four
wickets down.
South Aus. followed its out-
right win against Victoria by
giving N.S.W. the same dose.
The teams were evenly matched
and luck in the shape of a
dropped catch or two could have
given victory to Miller’s XI.
N.S.W. 148 (Lindwall 70; Noblet
6-39, Manning 3-16) and 272
(Miller 71, Carroll 65; Hole
3-43, Noblet 3-45, Wilson 3-88);
S.A. 164 (Miller 5-53, Davidson
3-37) and 7-258 (Hole 117 n. 0.,
Fa veil 105 ; Miller 3-72).
• • • •
"~“K.R.”: Australians who went
to England after the war to play
in league- and county-cricket
have all been doing well. Bill
Alley is the only player ever to
have made a thousand runs three
years in succession in the
Lancashire - league comp.;
Dooland has topped league
bowling averages. Pepper and
Tribe are considered by some
English critics to be two of the
best all-rounders in the world.
Grieves, Jack Walsh and Vic.
Jackson have been successful in
county-cricket. Incidentally, ex-
Test-’keeper Ben Barnett is now
in business over there, and appar-
ently still turns out regularly in
club-cricket. He is also Aus-
tralian representative at the
Imperial Cricket Conference.
* * * *
Siegfried Formella (11-7)
came all the way from Berlin
to meet Carlo Marchini (11-4),
from Genoa, at Leichhardt
Stadium, but unlike Wagner’s
hero he had no magic sword
and did not last long. Mar-
chini stopped him in the second
round. Getting down to busi-
ness as soon as the first bell let
them loose, the Latin started
shooting rights to the Teuton’s
dial, and, although Siegfried
seldom sought sanctuary when
it came to swapping punches,
Carlo kept on landing on the
target all through round one.
The bombardment began to pay
off early in round two, when a
solid starboard-sider floored For-
mella for a compulsory count of
eight. Another right then upset
him for the same count, after
which a left, followed by a right,
sent him down for the third time,
and referee Art Mawson
crowned Marchini the winner on
a t.k.o.


THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH
AHD AUSTRALIAN BANK
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Summary of Position as at 30/6/52
Total Assets: £148,288,000
Australian Currency
Australian
CURRENT ASSETS; Currency
Cash, Bank Balances, etc £22,813,596
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia .. . 25,347,000
Bills Receivable 6,785,749
Investments 2,796,754
57,743,099
Advances, etc 88,595,473
146,338,572
Deduct —
CURRENT LIABILITIES;
Deposits, etc., including Con-
tingencies Reserves £125,691,001
Commonwealth Bank Special
Deposits Account 11,800,000
Balances due to Other Banks .. 2,857,316
Provisions for Tax 761,763
Dividend Payable 131,644
1 141,241,724
5,096,848
Add—
Premises, etc 1,949,427
Shareholders’ Funds Australian Currency £7,046,275
PROFITS
Each £1 of gross profit for year to 30th June, 1952, was
used in this way:—
£ s. d.
All expenses of management, including Salaries
and Wages of Staff 0 14 9
Income and Other Taxes 0 3 6
Payments to Officers’ Provident Fund .... 0 0 9
Dividends 0 010
Reserves 0 0 2
£1 0 0
E. G. WILSON,
General Manager in Australia.
Missing Beneficiaries
CLARKE—CHARLES ALFRED CLARKE,
farmer, son of JOSEPH TUTTON CLARKE
and ANN CLARKE (born Baldwin), died
at Coramba, N.S.W., on April 7, 1948.
Court has directed inquiry to ascertain
his statutory next-of-kin entitled to in-
testate part of his estate. Persons claim-
ing to be so entitled must send particulars
of relationship to Perpetual Trustee Co.,
Hunter St., Sydney, N.S.W., so as to
reach it by 14th February, 1953. Infor-
mation is particularly sought concerning:
ELLEN (or HELEN or NELLIE)
CLARKE; children of said ELLEN
CLARKE if she married; GEORGE
CLARKE or any child of his. Persons
able to give information about any of
these will please write to above-mentioned
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO.
It’s a Lig Christmas
H
Ehouds
2
Save timel . . save money I. . with the
electric shaver
The Remington “Contour 6” will give a clear, fast,
comfortable sbave—'no latber necessaryl Give one
tbis Christmas. Lay-bys are accepted. £l5/15/-.
REMINGTON
Phillips electric
' “Philishave” is
£9/17/6
The new Rolls
"Twin Four” at
£l5/19/6
Rolls "Viceroy"
electric shaver
is £B/18/-
PROUD’S, King and Pitt Sts., Sydney. Melbourne, Newcastle.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Artbursts
Namatjira Again
Rex Battarbee is back at
Melbourne Athenaeum from the
Centre with a fresh batch of
paintings by the surprising
group of aboriginal artists he
produced when he inadvertently
taught camel-boy Albert Namat-
jira the technique of watercolor-
painting.
Now half the male members
of the tribe of the Aranda seem
to be hard at work painting the
red and purple ranges, palms,
ghost-gums and gorges of the
Never-Never, and Albert is
world-famous, and sells more of
his pictures abroad than any
other Australian artist, while
the non-painting half of the
Aranda cash-in on his bounty
and camp around his homestead.
This must be a let-off for the
witchety-grubs and goannas.
Albert remains the most sen-
sitive of the party, and in “Her-
mannsburg,” a picture of his
birthplace, he seems to be see-
ing deeper. The same may be
said of “Over the Red Range,”
“Color Harmony” and “Cloud
Shadows” by his son Ewald.
Edwin Pareroultja (Parer-
oultja means “debris under gum-
trees”) remains as factual as his
brother Otto, and the extra-
ordinary shapes and colors in
his paintings can be attributed
to the extraordinariness of his
subject-matter. A more interest-
ing recruit is Richard Moketa-
rinja, which means “snake
curled round eggs.” Snake-
Curled-Round-Eggs paints curly-
wig palms, fantastic rock-shapes
and trees behaving as they don’t
behave in nature even in the
Centre, and he will probably be
claimed as a natural member of
the George Bell group, though
what he is actually doing is im-
posing on the landscape the tra-
ditional patterns the Arandas
paint upon their bodies.
Henoch and Herbert Raberaba
are essentially much like all the
others, though they manipulate
a richer and more sombre
palette. Raberaba means “willy-
willy.” Aptly enough, Namat-
jira means “flying white-ant.”
Flying White-Ant has accu-
mulated so many poor relations
whom under tribal-law he is
bound to support without being
allowed any deductions from the
Commonwealth income - tax
officials that he has had to ex-
change his four-ton truck for an
Austin so that he won’t have to
take so many of them on his
painting expeditions.
What seems at first sight a
strange thing is that not one of
the aboriginal artists paints por-
traits, but Battarbee has a
simple explanation —none of
them will sit for another because
it would be much too dangerous.
If the portrait were a likeness
it would be the man himself, and
the owner would only have to
stick a palette-knife into the por-
trait’s brisket and the erstwhile
sitter would be belong-finish.
❖ ♦ ❖
Australian entries for the
international sculpture competi-
tion for a memorial to “The
Unknown Political Prisoner” are
on show at the National Art
Gallery, Sydney, and there is
not much among them to excite
the mind or emotions. Tom
Bass’s submission —one of the
four entries selected to go to
London —of an agonised figure
appears to say most about
human suffering, but the addi-
tion of a birdcage for a face
and a firebox for a belly seems
to be an admission of weakness
in the matter of recording
human feeling.
Stage and Music
“The White Sheep of the
Family”
The world presented by lan
Hay and L. du Garde Peach in
this play (Melbourne Princess) is
as remote as it is funny, and
considerable gales of laughter
wafted Edwin Styles through a
plot which, for all its insane
complications, is neatly fitted
together.
Mr. Styles is an extremely
skilful gentleman burglar, none
of whose family has gone to
prison for three generations. His
daughter has inherited his talent,
his wife operates successfully in
fur-shops, and the maid is a
practising apprentice who nabs
the family heirlooms and picks
her master’s pocket. The nigger
in the woodpile is a son who
makes an honest living as a
forger, but decides to go straight
when he falls in love with the
police commissioner’s daughter.
The son joins the bank that his
father has planned to burgle, and
Mr. Styles turns the tables by
opening the bank’s safe-deposit
and filling it with some of the
finest examples of his son’s art.
An absentminded vicar who
helps to put the fake money into
circulation in various charitable
causes, a fence and the com-
missioner of police, who pays
innocent visits to the thieves’
household, add to the grotesque-
ness of the situation.
As the gentleman crook, James
Winter, J.P., Mr. Styles has a
part to his liking ; and Loveday
Hills as his wife, June Jago as
his daughter and John Lee as the
artistic forger are bright and
snappy. As the incredibly
absentminded vicar Collins
Hilton gives the richest perform-
ance of his career.
♦♦♦ <+
Alden in Hobart
John Alden opened his Hobart
season with “The Merchant of
of Venice,” followed with
“King Lear” and then went on
to “The Merry Wives of
Windsor.” The last seemed
rather trivial after “Lear,” but
its racy, farcical treatment pro-
vided many laughs.
William Rees was well cast as
Falstaff, though he did underplay
at times. Capable and convinc-
ing performances came from
John Alden and Neva Carr-Glyn
as Master and Mistress Ford
and Owen Weingott as the Inn-
keeper, but the real stars of the
show were the comics. Ron
Shand’s Slender and Alistair
Roberts’s Welsh parson were
delightful, and James Mills as
the French doctor in love with
Anne Page achieved just the
right degree of arrogance and
cleverly maintained it right
through the play.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“The Philadelphia Story”
Canberra Repertory wound
up the year with an arena pro-
duction of Philip Barry’s “Phila-
delphia Story.” The play is
called a comedy, but, in fact, it
is largely what anyone likes to
make it. Its wild variety of tone
and attitude results from the
dramatist’s penchant for desk-
calendar morality, which induces
him to load his situations and
his characters with a would-be
profundity which they plainly
cannot bear. In the end, of
course, he throws in his hand,
and the film scenario ending re-
moves any doubts about the
triviality and unreality of the
whole.
That does not deny that the
play is extraordinarily clever; it
is just that. The theatrical talent
that has gone into it is un-
mistakable. Nor does it detract
from the exceptional quality of
this production. This sort of
stage-reporting may be peculiarly
suited to arena-production;
Alan Burke certainly produced it
there with outstanding success.
The cast moved through the
complexities with smoothness
and assurance and they handled
the slick dialogue without a
falter. Canadian lack Maybee
had the advantage of a
familiarity with the idiom which
gave him a relaxed ease in perfect
character.
Jill Crichton as the divorcee
was well-sustained and convinc-
ing in development. Ralph
Wilson as Connor was rather too
stiff, and this tended to slow 7
down the middle act. Barbara
Bather as the precocious young
sister was very good in a part
never easy for repertory societies
to cast.
F. M. T.
Gilsullivan
Amateur musical shows
generally sacrifice histrionics to
musicality, and the National
Theatre and Fine Arts Society’s
presentation of “The Gondoliers”
was no exception. Still, it
entertained capacity houses at
Hobart Royal. Costumes were
lavish and effective, although
there was a clash between
costumes and set in the first act;
both sets, while attractively
designed, cut off valuable play-
ing space which could well have
been used for better grouping
of the chorus.
Best all-round performances
came from Tom Doe (Plaza
Toro), Thomas Hopkins (Grand
Inquisitor) and Freda Elliott
(Tessa). Outstanding musically
were Gwyneth Dixon, who used
a beautifully-controlled soprano
to good effect as Casilda, and
Robert Simmons and Norman
Perry in the title roles.
❖ ❖ ***
New Sydney plays: “Annie
Get Your Gun” has shot its wa’y
back into Sydney Royal and
seems as fresh as ever; the
Mercury has added Molnar’s
“The Guardsman” to its list;
the Independent has plunged
into Pirandello’s “Lazzaro”;
and the Kuringai Guild is play-
ing the Hart-Kaufman comedy
of “The Man Who Came to
Dinner.”
Talkies
New Sydney films: “My Man
and I” (St. James and suburban
Metros). Well-made M.-G.-M.
drama set in Californian farm-
ing community. With Shelley
Winters, Ricardo Montalban,
Wendell Corey and Claire
Trevor; “The Devil Makes
Three” (Liberty); The seamy
side of middle-Europe again
with smuggling, blackmarketing
and reviving Nazis. Gene Kelly
and Pier Angeli; “Waterfront”
(Capitol); Robert Newton and
Kathleen Harrison in rather
gloomy doings around Liver-
pool ; “This Woman Is Danger-
ous” (Mayfair): Joan Crawford,
a gangster and a doctor.


!3n ensuring
fgh
token
of goobtoill
It is fashionable and sensible
this year to give gifts that are
practical. Definitely there are
few gifts more useful than a
Swan Pen and none that is more
gladly received.
Swan pens have a reputation for
quality and reliability that goes
a long way back. Today’s
models are worthy upholders of
this fine tradition.
MODEL "44" —14 ct. gold nib, 71/6
There are other models at prices from 50/-
to suit your needs. Ask any pen dealer.
PENS
100 YEARS OF GOOD WRITING
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TILLEY . Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
■ !wnu :
. V-.v
•V , •-
m\
mm
Mwv.vj
V%VAV|
m\\\
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic — only 1J pints of Kero for
12 hours' light — it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
MODEL TLI06
(“THE QUEEN”)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
IKE IN IKE'S WORDS
Irrespective of party, Ameri-
cans expect that Eisenhower will
join the select band of great
Presidents.
Europe, too, looks forward to
his Presidency with higher ex-
pectations than it ever had of
any single one of his forerunners.
Certainly he will be a great
President if he does live up to
what’s expected of him.
Meanwhile here is a culling
of excerpts from some of his
speeches, letters and interviews
which indicate something of the
kind of man he is and how he
thinks, and so may provide
pointers to the kind of President
he should be.
* * #
“We declare simply and
affirmatively—that we, the free
people of the Western World
[i.e., Americans], can never find
our salvation in any attempt to
stand apart and live completely
alone in this world.”
* * *
“Must each new generation be
uprooted from the land and pay
with their youth the price of
blundering leadership?.., .We
have had enough. The [Truman]
Administration has made a
mess in world affairs. We want
peace.”
* * *
“Our efforts in the United
Nations have been defeated by
vetoes of hostile groups—but in
the Atlantic pact we are not
plagued' by the hostile groups,
and are simply trying to work
out a way that free countries
may band together to protect
themselves.”
* * *
“From the security standpoint
help to other nations must aim
always at restoring their ability
to support themselves. To make
them permanently dependent
upon outside help is to weaken
and destroy moral fibre, with-
out which rehabilitation is im-
possible. A sturdy, self-reliant
ally is a godsend in any crisis ;
but a flabby dependant is no
help in a fight!”
* * *
“I believe that the decision to
fight to hold Korea, like the
decision to struggle so bravely
to hold Berlin, was an inescap-
able decision.”
* * *
“The real issue of today’s
political life is human freedom
against bureaucracy and regi-
mentation: it is a healthy two-
party system against an over-
whelming single party ; it is clean
efficiency and complete honesty
in all echelons of government as
opposed to bureaucratic bung-
ling ; it is justice and fairness
for all as opposed to special
favors for pressure-groups ; it is
sensible co-operation in a world
in which our own balance in
spiritual, economic and military
strength must be preserved as
opposed to stupid isolation or to
attempts to buy safety.”
* * *
“By no juggling of words or
twisting of ideas can a citizen of
this country justify an alliance
with the forces of dictatorship
and Communistic enslavement.”
« ♦ *
“The truth about Communism
is, today, an indispensable re-
quirement if the true values of
our democratic system are to be
properly assessed. Ignorance of
Communism, Fascism or any
other police-State philosophy is
far more dangerous than
ignorance of the most virulent
disease.”
* * ♦
“Our [America’s] position as
the chief exponent of the free
system—of the dignity of the
individual and of a capitalistic
economy—not only makes us the
chief target of Communistic de-
structive purpose, but makes it
incumbent upon us to be a bit
wiser and more determined in
our defence of freedom than
would be the case in a country
where devotion to these free
principles does not burn so
brightly.”
* * *
“We cannot be a modern
Rome guarding the far frontiers
with our legions if for no other
reason than because these are
not, politically, our frontiers.
What we must do is to assist
these people to regain their con-
fidence and get on their own
military feet.”
* * *
“If in ten years all American
troops stationed in Europe for
national defence purposes have
not been returned to the United
feWKOWIi
London “News Chronicle”
POLITICAL UNVEILING
States, then this whole project
[of getting Europe economically
and defensively on its feet] will
have failed.”
* * *
“These principles [of the
Atlantic Charter] do not permit
our acquiescing in the perpetual
enslavement of any people.
These principles demand that we
use every political, every eco-
nomic, every psychological tactic
to see that the liberating spirit,
in the nations conquered by
Communism, shall never perish.”
* * *
“Communism acts both
through threat of aggression by
means of armed force and by
internal subversion, bribery and
corruption. This combined effort
has been so long sustained
against Western Europe that
this region is by no means the
healthy, strong and virile portion
of the world that we considered
it back in the days of 1914 or,
indeed, in 1934, Yet the im-
portance of Europe to America’s
security is not by any means to
be minimised.”
* * ♦
“There is no need to remake
the world outside the Soviet sys-
tem in the likeness of the United
States or any other country. But
I suggest that we recognise that
every culture developed in the
world has been worked out by
its possessors to meet the circum-
stances of their own environ-
ment. Each race and each
nation can learn from every other.
There is none so close to self-
sufficiency that it can do without
the help and co-operation of
others ; none so primitive that it
has not amassed a wisdom that
can possibly enlighten even the
most advanced,”
* * *
“From my viewpoint, foreign
policy is, or should be, based
primarily upon one considera-
tion. That consideration is the
need for the United States to
obtain certain raw materials to
sustain its economy, and, when
possible, to preserve profitable
foreign markets for our sur-
pluses. Out of this grows the
necessity for making certain that
those areas of the world in
which essential raw materials are
produced are not only accessible
to us, but their populations and
Governments are willing to
trade with us on a friendly basis.
To my mind, this simple need,
with all the short- and long-term
arrangements necessary to assure
its fulfilment, are the things that
should concern us in the inter-
national field.”
* * *
“Extravagance in Govern-
mental spending brings about
ever-increasing taxes taxes
which, if long continued, will
strangle incentive, the very
quality which built the nation.”
* * *
“The Government penetrates
more and more into our daily
discern the catastrophic effects
upon the worker and the free-
dom of the masses are scornfully
dismissed as the screams of
the wicked, enduring deserved
punishment.”
* * *
“If solvency and security are
not synonymous, they are so
closely related that the differ-
ence, if any, is scarcely discern-
ible.”
* * *
“It is almost trite to say that
our own country [U.S.A.] must
remain solvent; that bankruptcy
for us would be a tremendous,
if not a decisive, victory for the
Kremlin. One of the things
Communism tries to prove to
the peoples of the earth is that
our system is weak, inefficient
and unfair. I violently disagree
with any plan or programme
that ignores this basic principle,
either explicitly or implicitly. 1
am sure that one thing worse
than bankruptcy would be mili-
tary defeat, yet it is my conten-
tion that the only way we can
achieve military success either
in preventing war or in winning
a war is through preserving the
integrity of our economy and
our financial structure. This
means courage in facing up to
sacrifice —both individual and
national.”
* * *
“American efforts to reju-
venate in Europe a feeling of
self-respect, of self-confidence
and of self-dependence—includ-
ing the burning purpose and
desire of self-defence —are not
only worth while, they are man-
datory because of the utter
bleakness of the alternative.”
* * *
“On the purely military side,
the transfer, by force or by sub-
version, to Communistic control
of the great industrial complex
of Western Europe, including its
tremendous numbers in skilled
labor, would be for us [U.S.A.]
a major catastrophe.”
* * ♦
“Justice among men can be
attained only by the universal
and equitable satisfaction of
human hungers that are three-
fold in their nature because man
is at once a physical creature
whn must be clothed and fed
and sheltered; a thinking being
who is for ever questioning and
must be answered or given the
opportunity to find the answers;
a spiritual being within whom
burn longings and aspirations
that cannot be quenched by all
living ; its answer to excessive
control is more control.”
* * *
“Few people are conscious of
the connection between a pros-
P erous , free enterprise and free-
§om-national solvency and in-
dividual freedom Worthless
mo 1 bankruptcy lead to
natio n a lisation of property • a
development that compels
bure aucratic control, which must
fina , |y - e autocratic
contro j»
'
Slogans like Soak the Rich
are sweet to the ears of millions,
and the protests of the few who


We Chose the
Islands
December Reader’s Digest
brings you a 21-page condensa-
tion of Sir Arthur Grimble’s
best-seller “We Chose the
Islands” —vivid, haunting story
of life in the Central Pacific,
where a British colonial officer
took his bride. Courage and
humor shine through these
tales of native lagoon battles
with tiger shark and octopus;
of ghosts and sorcery; of
beauty and terror; of a mag-
nificent bronze - bodied race,
rich in laughter and friendship!
This stimulating .article is
just one of 31 in December
Reader’s Digest, condensed
from world’s leading maga-
zines, current books. Get your
copy today-one shilling and
sixpence at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz, packets at 28 / 6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
'S'#':
1
w*
mm
in
wmmmmm
>X;<X;
.
< , :
i : V : ;.: : .; ■•■■;■■ ;:i
iilsfii
■;.• ::.W- :
No Bags . . No Labour . . when you use the NEW
iiiiuhT
TRUCK TO SILO
MR
FIELD BIN TO TRUCK
GRAIN and SUPER ELEVATOR
THE MOBILCO BULK MASTER is a truly portable
auger for handling wheat and super in bulk. Light and
manoeuvrable, the Bulk Master is the ideal machine
for the farmer and grain merchant. It can be used
in your field bin or trailer, yet can be moved easily
and quickly for other jobs such as unloading rail trucks
or moving grain or bulk super into sheds.
No other auger offers such wide scope of application.
Machine operates from horizontal up to full vertical
lift. Available in 9' and 12' lengths with 6" diameter
tube, and powered with 4-stroke, 6 b.h.p. Mobilco
Engine.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOW!
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
HEAD OFFICE - 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM. PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
CITY OFFICE: 252 SWANSTON ST., MELB. PHONE: FB 3023 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, MELB.
BRANCHES - - - SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
- ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
the goods of this world. Starva-
tion and hardship, ignorance and
its evils, oppression and dis-
crimination are the fuel of war
—the raw materials of strife.”
* * *
“By every step that the nations
take towards more productive
and more efficient use of land,
towards better production and
distribution of food, towards
raising the living standards of
even the least of the world’s
tribes; by every schoolhouse
that is built where none was
before; by every plague-spot
that is cleansed and made health-
ful ; by every increase in the
sum of universally shared know-
ledge and the consequent in-
crease in each man’s mastery of
his environment; by every
measure that enlarges men’s
opportunity to develop all their
talents and capacities—by that
much we reduce the stockpile of
grievance, injustice and discon-
tent on which war feeds.”
“It is quite certain that should
Europe as a whole fail, in ten
years and with our help, to re-
build the economic, military and
internal strength required to pre-
serve itself inviolate against
Communism and Communistic
attack—then the United States
will have no recourse but to
seek some other solution to this
desperate problem.”
Lament for the Muffin
Heartfelt series of letters to
the editor of London “Times”:
Sir, —Why are there no
muffins now? And why have
there been none for 10 years
past?
I am, Sir, yours hungrily,
ASQUITH OF
BISHOPSTONE.
Brooks’s, St. James’s-street,
S.W.I.
Sir,—The muffin went out
when butter rationing came in.
I am, Sir, yours mournfully,
WILLIAM HUNT.
The Boundary House, Fleet,
Hampshire.
Sir, —Lord Asquith of Bishop-
stone thinks there are no muffins
now ; but recently I have eaten
things that are called muffins.
Yet if we enter your columns to
disparage the muffin-makers,
both you and I, Mr. Editor—
and his lordship, too —may be
mulcted in damages under sec-
tion 3 of the new Defamation
Act published this week. Per-
haps Lord Asquith would care
to say, extra-judicially, what is
a muffin. 1 am, Sir, yours fear-
fully,
JOHN DAVIDSON.
1, Essex Court, Temple, E.C.4.
Sir, —Surely the answer to
Lord Asquith of Bishopstone’s
letter is that the public are
better educated today in their
choice of what food is good for
them. Most diet experts de-
clare that the muffin is perhaps
the least digestible form of food
ever evolved.
Yours faithfully,
L’ESTRANGE FAWCETT.
2, Paultons-square, 5.W.3.
Korea Casualties
“United Nations casualties
now amount to more than
350,000, including 50,000 killed.
“DEVIL TAKE IT, THIS VISHINSKY LOOKS EVEN
MORE TUNISIAN THAN I DO!”
(Expressing the French resentment of the U.S. action of joining Russia
in a U.N.O. vote supporting the Tunisians.)
Of these 122,000 are American,
including 21,000 killed.”
Thus “Manchester Guardian,”
and the same figures have been
published in Australia.
They are most misleading.
Because the totals for “United
Nations” include South Koreans,
the figures give an altogether
wrong impression of the U.S.
share in comparison with that
of the rest of the U.N. countries.
Recent figures (from “U.S.
News and World Report”)
show ;
U.S. casualties .. 120,269
All other U.N.
casualties.. .. 10,899
South Korean mili-
tary casualties .. 149,594
U.S. casualties are now
occurring at the rate of over
1000 a week.
The Late U.N.O.
“Don’t rely on the United
Nations. For all practical pur-
poses, it’s dead.”
Some of the “most important
people in Britain” are quoted by
“U.S. News and World Report”
as thus advising American
policy-makers.
Not only a British view,
either. Military men of the
U.S., the same publication re-
ports, are “trying to sell poli-
ticians on the idea that the
North Atlantic Treaty Organisa-
tion should gradually be turned
into a substitute for the United
Nations. The U.N., with Russia
as a member holding a veto
power over any effective action,
is regarded as wholly unsuited
to today’s world.”
More significantly, a “New
York Times” correspondent re-
porting the current proceedings
in U.N.O.’s magnificent new
headquarters on the East River,
finds the delegates “in low
spirits.” They are “worried
about the obvious decline in the
prestige of the organisation in
the United States”:
“In recent months U.N. activi-
ties and even the U.N. itself
have come under severe attack
by powerful American organisa-
tions. But what appears to be
the increasing apathy of Ameri-
cans to the U.N. is the most
disquieting and most significant
factor of all.”
Dragnet
Rifts in the West. —Noting as
“most serious” the “rifts de-
veloping within the Atlantic
community,” a “New York
Times” correspondent com-
ments; “The signs of retreat are
sharp reminders that one of the
first things the next [Eisenhower]
Administration has to do is to
heal the rifts in the Atlantic
coalition.”
Canada of the Common-
wealth. —In London “Time and
Tide,” author-journalist John
Connell debunks suggestions
that Canada may break away,
and concludes: “In Canada
there is the will, there is the
desire and there is the capacity
to maintain, to extend and to
enrich in new and diverse ways,
perhaps unrevealed to this
generation, the British faith, tra-
dition and achievement.”
Shaky Yoshida. —“Few people
in Japan,” says London “Times,”
“give Mr. Yoshida’s new Gov-
ernment a very long life. His
precarious position is caused by
the division of the Liberal party
into two wings, one of which
follows Mr. Yoshida while the
other supports Mr. Hatoyama.”
Concern of All. —London
“Economist” finding: “France
conceives its commitment in
Indo-China to be of concern to
the entire free world. In terms
of the defence of free Asia it
ranks with, or above, the action
in Korea and the defence of
Malaya.”
U.S.-French Clash. —Very fair
and accurate summing-up by
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“The magnanimity of French
post-war plans regarding Ger-
many has been grounded in the
belief that a secure African
base, combined with a major
share of the Saar resources,
would give her at least a posi-
tion of equality in any Franco-
German accord. Now she feels
that the United States is willing
to see her strength drained by
the sacrifices in Indo-China and
her prestige undermined by
appeasement of the Arabs,
while pushing her into the arms
of a dangerous European part-
nership.”
Nato Waste. —A London “Ob-
server” correspondent reports
experts as agreeing that Nato
could save billions of dollars a
year and produce the same total
of weapons by getting member-
countries to concentrate and
mass-produce particular and
appropriate items instead of
everyone trying to produce a
little bit of everything. “Yet
efforts to practise this simple
principle have so far been foiled
by inter-Governmental mistrust,
anxieties over national indepen-
dence and full employment,
opposition from industry and
labor and issues of prestige.”
Soviet German Army. —While,
comments “New York Times,”
the Western Powers are still
quarrelling over the creation of
a European army the Kremlin is
busy creating a new satellite
force in Soviet Germany to take
its place beside the forces of
Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hun-
gary, Rumania and Bulgaria.
The new force, disguised as
“alert units” of the “People’s
Police,” “Sea Police” and “Air
Police,” is now estimated at close
to 100,000 men, and is expected
to reach 375,000 next year, with
the para-military youth organi-
sation and “Labor Service” pro-
viding ample recruiting material.
The Saar. —The whole Saar
problem, in “World Review’s”
summing - up, is purely geo-
graphical and mathematical. The
exploitation of Saar coal depends
on a supply of iron-ore from
Lorraine, and vice versa, and
with this industrial capacity
within the French orbit, the out-
put potentialities of France and
Germany are about equalised.
That is the crux of the situation.
The continuing trouble-causer is
that the French will never
allow this industrial capacity to
accrue to the Germans, and the
Germans will never tolerate per-
manent French political domina-
tion of the area.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Selling Government Loans
The most astute sellers of commodities
are awake to what attracts the public eye
when advertising their wares for sale.
Beautiful girls seem to do the trick in
nine cases out of ten, whether it be
cigarettes or automobiles. It happens, at
the moment, that our Federal Treasurer
has the 16th Security Loan for sale to
the investing public, and, as is usual,
advertising in the Press is resorted to.
My daily paper carried a three-quarter
page advertisement decorated with what
appears to be a'studio portrait of good
old Jack McDonald, then our Premier.
The N.S.W. papers which came my way
carried smiling pictures of Premier Cahill.
This, mind you, after both Premiers had
screamed to heaven about being finan-
cially starved by the Commonwealth and
the Commonwealth had accused both of
spending not wisely but too well.
We are more-or-less used to pictures
of Federal Treasurers in such advertise-
ments, but I find it hard to imagine the
mentality of the advertising expert who
thinks that pictures of State politicians
such as we have in Victoria at the
moment are good advertising media.
The state of the loan market is such
that any advertising needs to be most
judiciously thought out —but State poli-
ticians, to my mind, do not qualify for
inclusion in any programme Are there
no pictures of the Tivoli ballet available?
—Ceg (Vic.).
Margarine Quotas
Queensland dairy-industry leaders have
asked the Minister for Agriculture
and Stock (Mr. Collins) that the sale of
margarine be limited to present allo-
cations, totalling 4000 tons annually.
Mr. A. Muller, M.L.A., who introduced
the deputation, said later that table
margarine was manufactured from vege-
table oils grown under colored-labor con-
ditions at depressed wage-rates, which
was a serious matter for a country whose
economy was based on white labor.
He also contended that competition
from margarine was quite unfair if Aus-
tralia was to continue to have a dairy
industry with a butter cost-of-produc-
tion acknowledged by the Commonwealth
Government at 4s. Ijd. per pound.
A protectionist policy is sound for
guarding a young industry, but if the
price of butter is to continue to increase
under what has become a cost-plus
system, in which the consumer is not con-
sidered, buyer-resistance now in evidence
will intensify.
Public reaction to the decision of
Queensland Minister Collins to allow a
bigger quota for margarine was entirely
favorable, as many large families were
finding that the rising cost of butter was
putting that commodity beyond their
reach. Primary producers’ commodity
boards are apt to overlook the needs of
average consumers so far as prices are
concerned, and unless this tendency is
checked the primary industries concerned
must suffer.
If producers know they can get any
price for their product which an official
investigation shows is necessary to give
a profit on production-cost, they are not
likely to give serious consideration to
keeping production-costs at a minimum.
With the post-war trading boom over, the
time is opportune for a review of our
protectionist policy, to enable the prices
of goods to be kept at reasonable levels
from the consumers’ viewpoint, and also
in the interests of the national economy.
—Agric (Q.).
“Greater Sydney”
On discharge from the Army in ’44
I bought 10 acres of land 13 miles from
G.P.0., Sydney. It was level, cleared,
bounded by four roads, a water-hydrant
at corner, and a perfect oblong, accord-
ing to deed and measurement.
Intention was to subdivide the land into
forty-eight 50ft. x 180 ft. homesites and
make something on my outlay.
Then the Greater Sydney scheme
engulfed my 10 acres in the Green Belt.
Because of this the local council refused
to grant a building permit, so to all
intents and purposesi the land became
valueless. Nevertheless the rates still had
to be paid.
At frequent intervals I was approached
by estate-agents and builders desiring to
buy the land, but when I explained the
circumstances they naturally lost interest.
Finally a man said he was prepared to
take a risk and made a meagre offer to
purchase. I accepted and transferred the
deed, leaving me financially well behind
the starting-point of ’44.
To cap the lot a few days ago I received
an account from the Water Board for
water-rates over a period of the last 15
years! Presumably the Water Board
made no claim for rates between 1937
and 1945 ; they made none while I was
owner of the land, and apparently they
don’t know who owns it at present.
Now I know why the Water Board
floats loans: To save it from drowning
in a vortex of swirling, uncaught-up-with
accounts.—J. E. B. (N.S.W.).
Australian Wines
Agree with “R.M.M.” (B. 19./Ilf/’52)
that Australian white wines are second to
none. Walter James, in his Wine in
Australia, claims there is no difficulty
about production of good, inexpensive
wines in this country, and goes on to
say that the lack of demand is due to
“the universal prostration in the muddied
ecstasies of beer.”
I suggest formation of a panel of wine-
connoisseurs independent of wine-
growing interests —who would, as a labor
of love, make recommendations in the
proper quarter, with a view to reducing
excise on sound, light wines and penalis-
“Who put fruit-salts in the soap-powder ?”
ing the inferior “plonk” foisted on the
people.
Mr. James describes Australian sherries
as ranging from “extremely good to com-
pletely horrible.” He would render a
public service were he to compile a
pamphlet based on his book. This might
well summarise the salient features of
what constitutes a good wine. The
pamphlet could be distributed by reput-
able wine-producers to their agents and
by the latter to their customers.
In quite a short time, following an
educational campaign, most people would
acquire a palate for our wholesome light
wines. No doubt the beer barons would
put up a formidable resistance to any
kind of reform in our drinking habits, but
reform is long overdue and it is time the
temperate drinker had an innings.—
Bibber (Tas.),
Heavy duty imposed by the British
Government, and not lack of publicity, is
the main reason why Australian wines
are not well-known in Great Britain.
Immediately after the war our wines were
well-known in Britain, and there was a
great demand for them by British
merchants eager to replenish stocks.
Wineries stepped-up their output to cope
with the demand; new land was, opened -
up along the Murray to boost viticultural
production. Then, when British
merchants had restocked their cellars,
crippling import duties were imposed on
our wines. Duty rose from 4s. to 40s.
a gallon on dessert wines and from
2s. to 235. p.g. on dry wines. This latter
figure has since been reduced to 11s. p.g.;
even so the extra duty had the effect of
putting our wines beyond the reach of
most wine-drinkers in Britain. As a result,
last year’s exports to the U.K. dropped to
612,000 gallons, or only 20 per cent, of the
pre-war level.
With the bottom knocked out of its
main overseas market, the wine industry
conducted a nation-wide publicity cam-
paign to popularise its products, and, aided
by the arrival of thousands of ex-
Europeans who are accustomed to taking
wines with their meals, succeeded in
increasing home-consumption from 31
million gallons in 1938 to 131 million
gallons last year. In addition, markets
were sought in other countries, notably
Canada and New Zealand ; but these are
only expedients. Our biggest potential
market is, and always has been, Great
Britain, which, before the war, took up to
95 per cent, of our exportable surplus.
Average annual production of wine in
Australia is about 32 million gallons,
four-fifths of which is produced in S.A.
Output will continue to rise as new vine-
yards come into production, and the press-
ing problem of a vast annual surplus now
faces the industry. Unfortunately our
Government is in no position to seek
favors from the British Government
because of its own restrictions on imports
from the U.K.; but as soon as trading
conditions return to normal strenuous
attempts must be made to reduce the
present high British duty.—W. M. H.
(S.A.).
Home Price for Wheat
“Harry the Horse” (B. 19/11/’52) tells
how wheatfarmers were helped during the
1932-38 period by subsidies from the Aus-
tralian public. The 1932-38 wheatfarmers
(God rest their souls) thank the public
for the £3B million they received then,
and now wheatfarmers would like some
thanks for their £ 100-odd million sub-
sidising of the Australian public through
accepting less than world wheat price
for home-consumption wheat during
the period 1942-52. Those thanks haven’t
arrived yet. Times are harder. The
Australian people are harder, too. They
want a 40-hour week with smoke-oh,
annual holidays and long-service leave.
They can pay for this. The wheatfarrner
won’t, by providing bread as a present.
The sweet-wicket primary producers are
on is a myth. The established man can
keep out of debt. But what about the
younger generation or the soldier-settler?
I have just finished my first full harvest
in four years. Year One: Breaking up.
Year Two; Floods —half a harvest. Year
Three: Drought—no harvest. Year
Four: A crop. Net income approxi-
mately £4OOO. Tax on this, after three
previous losses, £7OO. Provisional tax,
approximately £6OO. Minimum reserve
to hold on hand to feed the family and
run the farm (next year may be a
drought), £2OOO. That leaves £7OO to
cover (1) reserve for depreciation, (2)
redemption of overdraft (£4500), (3)
purchase of new equipment. With
the plant on hand only two-thirds of the
block can be farmed and equipment to
work the remainder would cost £3OOO
at least.
“Harry the Horse’s” statement,
“Any farmer that cannot make big
money with the present prices for wheat
ought to get off his farm gnd stay off,”
should be changed to “ought to grow
barley.” Find out the price of barley,
Harry. Beer is not tied to the basic
wage. I was a goat not to grow it this
year myself.—L. A. W. (Q.).
U.S. Imports and Tariffs
America’s recent refusal to lift import
restrictions on Australia’s dairy products
is part of an American approach to inter-
national trade which, if persisted in,
may have serious consequences for the
free world. And it lends itself to gross
misrepresentation by the Communists.
America has, of course, restricted
severely the import of many other raw
materials. Wool, for example. The big
drop in Australian wool prices last season
was largely due to cessation of direct
American buying.
However, Uncle Sam’s import restric-
tions do not seem to be due in all cases
to deliberate Government action —some-
times they appear to be the result of
ridiculously costly Customs duties, ex-
asperating delay by Customs officials and
general red-tape.
American tariff laws are antiquated.
There is no provision in them, for in-
stance, for goods invented since the tariff
law of 1930. New goods may be classi-
fied as similar to another article, such
as wood, or as merchandise “not other-
wise enumerated” —paying whichever duty
is higher.
A linoleum firm bought $325-worth of
asphalt-tile from Canada, and paid $97
duty, according to a writer in the
“American Magazine.” But Customs
were not yet finished. Chemical analysis
revealed that resins in the tile were syn-
thetic, which made it an entirely different
item to Customs ; the firm was socked
for an additional sum. It imported no
more asphalt-tile.
According to Harry S. Radcliffe, execu-
tive vice-president of the National
Council of Importers and a top U.S.
authority on imports, “If Congress will
revise the Customs laws adequately, U.S.
imports will increase at least a billion
dollars a year,”
Perhaps the new Eisenhower Adminis-
tration will alter this state of affairs, to
the benefit of all concerned., — Maros
(W.A.).
Defence Expenditure
The present Liberal-C.P. Government
has improved the defence position. The
forces have increased substantially, the
compulsory-training scheme is a success,
and military equipment is increasing and
improving. But the position is not good
in other respects.
Mobility was the keynote of World
War 11. It will be essential in a third
war, especially if Australia, with its great
unpopulated spaces, should be invaded.
The railways did a good job in the
last war. But their limitations were
obvious. In their present condition they
are more likely to be a hindrance than a
help. The change of gauge was a decided
nuisance last time; it could be fatal next
time. The loss in time, the need for extra
equipment and manpower, could cause
delays that could be really serious. Yet,
though we’ve been talking about
uniform gauges for the past 40 years,
nothing has been done about it.
There are many miles of railway in
N.S.W. that would crack up very soon
under heavy traffic. Shortage of rolling-
stock is apparent and it is here that the
different gauges become a menace.
Assume that at one particular stage in
the war the movement of troops and
equipment was confined to N.S.W. and
Queensland, thus giving S.A. and Vic. a
surplus of trucks. These simply rust in
those two States while N.S.W. and
Queensland struggle under a load that is
too heavy for them.
The people who ' could help are the
very ones State Governments are trying
to force off the roads. Privately-owned
motor-trucks were particularly useful in
the last war, but if the States have their
way there will be very few men with
trucks next time. A defence-potential
is being destroyed so that Government-
owned railways won’t face competition
from a more efficient service.
One of the arguments used by poli-
ticians against the heavy-haulage trucks is
the mess they made of the main roads.
This is true, but the blame belongs to
those who provide the roads, not to the
hauliers. There is hardly a decent main
road in Australia fit to carry a constant
stream of fast-moving, heavy military
traffic. There are bottlenecks galore and
bridges that a few plugs of “gelly” would
render useless. There are not enough
alternative routes along our eastern coast.
We are no better off in the air.
Although every country town of any size
has its airfield, there are not many of
these of any use for the handling of large
numbers of planes. A series of strategi-
cally placed airfields is something that


A
*
For Present giving
or Party giving
*
'6
m
&
Vi
y> . ""■''l , i
I's- > ~ '
•Nv!v>x*:<*x , >x<*:*> >
Li
a
a
<•
What gift more
welcome than a bottle
or two of Vickers Gin?
What gift in better
taste? Lay in a stock for
your Christmas enter-
taining, too. Easy to get
and sure to please it’s
so economical.
Yickers
GIN
for Christmas
Slip a Vickers Cocktail Recipe Book
into each gift parcel. Write now to
The United Distillers Pty. Ltd., Box
759 G, G.P.0., Elizabeth Street, Mel-
bourne, for your free copies.
VGS7/I4
UCAS
ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT
ON BRITISH CARS
and guaranteed 6 months
Every famous British car is fitted with starting
lighting and ignition equipment manufactured by Lucas.
British car makers recommend that you replace
Lucas with Lucas. Only in this way can satisfactory
performance be guaranteed.
FOR GENUINE SATISFACTION
insist on
1
Genuine Spare Parte
fg
LUCAS BATTERIES
Painstaking inspection guarantees uniform quality in Lucas car and truck Batteries.
They have 18 months Insured Life.
BRISBANE— Elphinstones Ltd., Ann St. • SYDNEY—Bennett and Wood Pty. Ltd.,
13-23 Wentworth Ay. • MELBOURNE —Starting Lighting Ignition Pty. Ltd., 68-78
Sturt St., Sth. Melbourne • ADELAIDE —Hannan Bros. Ltd., 63 Franklin St.
PERTH —Joseph Lucas ( Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 627-639 Wellington St.
HOBART— W. A. Richards, 56 Collins St.
LAUNCESTON— H. C. Thompson and Co., 97 Charles St.
IOSBPH LUCAS (AUST.) PTY. LTD,
needs urgent consideration by the defence
planners.
One of the jobs a civil-defence com-
mittee might have to face could be
moving thousands of evacuees from cities
to country centres. A sudden influx of
thousands into the average town would
create chaos in feeding and housing them,
while the thought of the effect on the
water-supply and sanitary services makes
one shudder.
Hospitals and medical services gener-
ally are completely unprepared to meet
any sudden large-scale emergency. It is
possible to put up beds anywhere, but
it is not so easy to transfer operating-
theatres and medical equipment. Keep-
ing the hospitals short of the funds neces-
sary to allow them to expand is short-
sighted, to say the least.
All these things will cost a lot of
money, but if we are to be ready to
defend ourselves we must' be prepared
to pay for it. And a strict check on the
spending of defence money already voted
might release a large amount of the
necessary money.
State Governments must play their
part. Although defence is the responsi-
bility of the Federal Parliament, the States
are obviously vitally concerned. A few
economies in the States, such as cutting
a number of useless boards and much of
the dead-wood from their services, could
improve roads and railways. There is
too much passing the buck at present;
useless at any time, the practice could be
extremely dangerous in war-time. — Wack.-
ford (N.S.W.).
Birth-control in India
Full of hope at 70, veteran U.S. birth-
control crusader Margaret Sanger, who
was arrested in Brooklyn in 1916 for
establishing a birth-control clinic and was
later prevented from entering Japan to
teach that overcrowded country how to
limit its population, is leading a delega-
tion of 11 to the International Planned
Parenthood conference at Bombay.
The conference has Prime Minister
Nehru’s blessing, and no wonder. Leaving
out Kashmir, India’s population is just
short of 357,000,000 and since 1941 has
increased by 42,000,000.
That has a religious background.
Nehru says that any scientific approach
must not be inhibited by preconceptions
or convictions already held. One pre-
conception sanctified by the Hindu scrip-
tures is that a woman who delays
marriage until after the onset of puberty
is, sc to speak, committing murder and
is doomed in her next reincarnation to
be born an insect in ordure. Hence the
marriage of children. Gandhi himself
was a husband at 11,
Other determining factors are the ex-
treme poverty of the mass of the
people, their hopelessness of ever being
“This time tomorrow We'll be Jam-packed in a tram on our Way to toil.”
able to rise to a higher standard of living
and their consequent indifference to the
question as to how many offspring share
their nothing.
Educated Indians are apparently alive
to the problem, however. More than
two-thirds of the 200 delegates attending
the conference will be Indians. — Feng-
Shui (Vic.).
Road Safety
Following erection of a 30-m.p.h.-limit
sign about a mile out of this town a
headline appeared in the local newspaper,
“Main Road Is a Profitable Trap
for the Court,” with the names of
some dozen culprits fined for exceeding
30 m.p.h. Most were first offenders ; in
other words, normally law-abiding drivers.
What had happened was that some
didn’t see the sign ; some became con-
fused ; some saw it but it didn’t register.
This applies in many cases all over the
country. “Halt”-signs, for instance, are
erected at intersections on the driver’s
left, whereas he is taught to watch to
the right at such places. Again, signs are
obscured, both by moving vehicles and
fixed objects. And there is such a multi-
tude of signs that a driver really needs
another person to act as observer for
him.
The yellow mid-road system works best
of all, with its single, broken and double
lines. This is the best system of road
signals because the motorist’s eyes are
always on it. It could be extended to
embrace 30' m.p.h. limits, halt-signs and
other safety measures and it couldn’t miss.
A line of yellow crosses between two
double yellow lines, for instance, could
indicate a compulsory halt ahead; wavy
yellow lines could indicate a 15 m.p.h.
area. — Hist (N.S.W.).
Wool and Synthetics
The alarm sounded by G. B. S. Falkiner
and R. F. Sanderson (B. 19/11 /’52) is
timely, Australia has many equals and
some superiors in the production of lamb
and mutton, but neither equals nor
superiors in the production of Merino
wool, recognised the world over as ideal
clothing. It can be spun fine enough for
summer wear and warm enough for the
coldest winter wear.
If we take the long view and study
Australia’s interests at large we will set
ourselves the task of capturing the bulk
of the world’s clothing industry. But we
cannot do it alone! We must seek help,
and create interest in other parts of the
world and we must advertise.
Can anyone suggest a better way of
creating that interest, securing that help
or a cheaper way of advertising, than by
sending our stud Merino rams to the
four corners of the earth?
Or are we going to bury our heads in
the sand and allow artificial fibres to
capture the bulk of the world’s clothing-
trade?
We can, with our open spaces, double
and treble our output of Merino wool
well within the next 100 years; and
thereby make Australia one of the
wealthiest countries in the world —if our
Federal Government and pastoralists do
not continue to shut their eyes to the
danger we are running by trying to make
the production of Merino wool an Aus-
tralian monopoly.— H. Hall (N.S.W.).


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
m
5 E
.mm
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
H
awe
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
— DISTRIBUTORS "
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St.. Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.). Edment’a Building,
Kundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St, Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee. Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGSAPOIiE; British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers.
Baffles Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street. Auckland. , , ,
Pigs
Can be
Profitable
I
A balanced mineral ration in feeding pigs often
means good instead of poor returns. Tbe best
source of feed minerals is Tri-Cal-Os Bone Flour
with guaranteed minimum content of 30%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Tri-Cal-Os is
processed especially for maximum digestibility
and to ensure maximum production.
OS
CM
O 0»
BO**®
2
‘Dii€a£Oi
STERILISED
bone flour
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O 80. 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
80. 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENT
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Santa Gertrudis
“Oxo”: The sale of Santa
Gertrudis bulls at Risdon, near
Warwick (Q.), has created a lot
of interest in this American
breed, and a pamphlet (No. 20)
issued by the Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture dealing
mainly with Santa Gertrudis has
come at the right time. It was
written by the officer-in-charge
of the Cattle Husbandry branch,
R. D. Chester, and K. F.
Howard, a member of the branch
who visited the home of Santa
Gertrudis—King Ranch, Texas
—and returned with the first
shipment consigned to Australia.
One interesting point is that
the King Ranch is not in the
tropics it lies 'in about the equi-
valent Queensland latitude of
Nambour and Roma. Average
summer temperature is in the 80
to 90 degrees F. range, and aver-
age winter temperature from
50 to 60 degrees F. Rainfall is
about 25in. a year, fairly evenly
distributed. Only time and very
carefully-controlled observations
could produce satisfactory evi-
dence of whether Santa Gert-
rudis would grow and fatten
in Queensland, at a faster rate
than the cattle now available,
state the authors.
Until evidence was available
one way or the other, the pro-
gressive grazier would retain an
open mind on the subject. It
would be unwise to throw away
the great wealth of beef quality
built up over a century and
gamble on easy gains from a
breed possibly inferior in beef
qualities. On the other hand,
the industry could not afford to
neglect experimenting with new
material and incorporating any
worth-while features which came
to light.
Stock in the Tropics
“Archaps”: Queensland Gov-
ernment Botanist S. L. Everist,
just returned from an overseas
tour, says no one he met seemed
to have a satisfactory answer
to meet the need for a reasonably
uniform type of animal for
tropical countries.
Such countries had a short, in-
tensive wet season with high
temperatures, followed by a
long dry period, which presented
a real problem to stock scientists.
Everist thought that in solving
the problem all research work
on grasses and legumes and
pasture - management practices
would have to be correlated and
integrated.
At a congress research-workers
from tropical countries all
round the world interested in
tropical grasslands had an oppor-
tunity to learn what each had
been doing and arrange to keep
in touch with each other’s work
in future. In Georgia and
Florida (U.S.A.) Everist found
a lot of good work being done
in the utilisation df coastal flat
lands not unlike a lot of sandy
coastal flats in Queensland.
By top-dressing and sowing of
pastures they had been able to
make an enormous increase in
production, working mostly or
beef, and in some cases had pro-
duced more than 5001 b. of beef
per acre, per year, on land which
previously was virtually useless.
He was informed that it was an
economic proposition, in view
of the high prices paid in
America for beef.
In Texas, Everist saw mesquite-
control measures chemical
spraying and pushing over
mechanically—and he ascertained
that whichever method was used
was not permanent; after a time
they were troubled with seedling
growth. However, they had
been able to increase beef-pro-
duction.
Cattle Air-lift
“C. Punch”: A Qantas
freighter aircraft is bringing
cattle from Pakistan to New
Guinea, the largest and longest
air-lift of cattle ever attempted.
The C.5.1.R.0. chartered Qantas
to carry 20 to 22 calves, a gift
from the Pakistan Government
to the Australian Government
under the Colombo Plan.
As the ports of call on the
6000-mile trip from Karachi will
include some countries where
rinderpest, foot- and mouth-rot
are prevalent, Qantas engineers
designed special handling-equip-
ment to minimise the possibility
of the calves contracting the
diseases.
The three breeds are Schindi,
Sahiwal and milch buffalo, all
robust stock, which are to be
tried under New Guinea condi-
tions.
Big Single Crop
“S I.”: At Gunningbland, near
Parkes, R. Grady produced 900
acres of Kendee and won the
R.A.S. Central Slopes champion-
ship. It was grown on an old
cultivation paddock, and, though
he didn’t say so, the judge must
have thought it fairly risky to
sow such a large area with the
one variety.
Grady’s was the only crop of
Kendee in the contest. Bordan
was the most popular wheat
among competitors, with Ben-
cubbin next. The winner can
expect nearly 16 bags an acre
from the prize area.
Oats Beat Root-rot
“Long Awn”: R. S. Buddy,
who farms near Quirindi
(N.S.W.), had a paddock which
first carried wheat back in 1936.
In recent years root-rot set in,
so in 1951 he sowed it with oats
and grazed them off. Sown for
this season with the new South
Australian wheat, Glenwari, at
361 b. an acre, the crop grew well,
the root-rot was checked and the
stand was good enough to run
second in the Sydney R.A.S.
Northern wheat championship.
It was beaten by a crop of
Gabo at Curlewis, owned by
Heath and Sons, which got three
points more than the Buddy
crop on density, uniformity and
cleanliness, the Buddy crop
having a few wild oats in it.
Geo. Nicholson, the depart-
mental cereal expert who judged
the crops, reckoned the Gabo
would go 56 bushels an acre as
against 50 for the Glenwari. All
17 crops in the contests had an
estimated average of 48 bushels.
Gabo is becoming popular in
that country because of disease
resistance. The once - popular
Ford and Eureka 2 have, as
wheats do in the long run, de-
veloped rust-susceptibility.
Bovine Memorial
“K. Berry”: Erection of a
monument on the South Coast
of N.S.W. to commemorate the
first breeding experiments from
which the Australian Illawarra
Shorthorn dairy cow developed
was suggested by H. N. Sarina,
R.A.S. Registrar at a fair and
stock sale at Kiama (N.S.W.).
Sarina said the breed’s most
famous daughter, Melba 15th of
Darbalara, had been “adopted”
by the American Shorthorn
Society and honored during an
annual week-long Melba Festival
in the U.S. Australia had done
nothing to perpetuate Melba’s
creation 30 years ago of a world
365-days’ production record of
“They can't even leave the flamin' bottle-trees alone."
32,522|1b. of milk from which
16141 b. of butter-fat was taken.
The Aethel-tree
“J.C.”: The aethel - tree
(:Tamarix aphylla) may become
one of Australia’s most useful
adopted trees. Introduced into
Broken Hill from California by
Essington Lewis, it is growing
there in thousands for shade,
ornament and windbreak. In one
regeneration area where drifting
sand gradually piled up to Bft.
about the trees’ stems, the
aethels survived by using their
buried branches to form new
roots. From one such tree
sprouted half a hundred young
ones.
Some of the best specimens are
at Mildura. There, used as a
street tree, it forms a mass of
light-green foliage not unlike our
native she-oak. An avenue
planted on the sewerage farm
over three years ago is now 30ft.
high, each row being a dense
wall of green.
Originally an inhabitant of
the North African deserts, the
aethel is the world’s only ever-
green tamarix. It is hardy and
the right tree for sandy soils.
Many farmers consider it good
fodder.
Planted by cuttings it grows
quickly but needs good water-
ing at the start. A friend of the
low-rainfall districts, it never-
theless comes to its best develop-
ment when watered regularly.
Cuttings are available from the
Zinc Corporation, Broken Hill,
at low cost.
Working Land
“Hist”: In this Cowra
(N.S.W.) district harrowing on
dry farms is a risky practice. It
may be all right in districts
where the rains all fall during
one concentrated “wet,” but if
rains (especially storm rains) are
liable to fall on the fallowed
ground, harrowing flat is simply
asking for sheet-erosion on
sloping, country. Less import-
ant, the finer the soil surface, the
harder it bakes, entailing fre-
quent cultivations (which raise
the cost of growing the crop).
My practice is to fallow with
a disk plough and leave the sur-
face as rough as you like. The
irregularities catch the rain for
conservation and prevent it
sweeping down the slopes. I
keep the weeds down with stock
and neither harrow nor cultivate
until it is unavoidable. Also I
leave the “corners” of fallow un-
ploughed until just before sow-
ing-time. The deep finish-up
furrows of ploughed corners only
make watercourses for storm-
waters.
Rye-com
“Sundowner”: In addition to
its value as a stabiliser of mallee
soils, rye-corn is a useful green-
feed crop in that country, for it
will provide supplementary feed
at any time of the year under a
wide range of conditions. It is
affected much less by diseases
than are other cereals.
Sown in December, rye-corn
will provide weaning feed for
lambs six to eight weeks after
sowing. A good crop will carry
from 20 to 25 lambs per acre,
fattening a good proportion and
leaving the balance in good con-
dition for finishing on rape or
oats. Sowings in January,
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Although good rains fell in late November and early
December to fulfil the cycle predictions, they did not reach
the full amount expected. However, though the supporting
sunspot group has passed from sight it is still in control,
and rain may be expected for some time ahead.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
"Phenovis" Worm Hemtdf
t
\
tA
m
g*t
7'
/>//'
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
hfg
PHE.BX.BO
A6faouUian4
from a FAMOUS FAMILY
Australian-Manufactured heavy-duty-engineered
International
/Trternmtona^
Trucks
Here they are the four Australian-made members of
the famous International truck family. They ve proved
themselves on every job —that's why truck operators
everywhere have acclaimed them.
Like every International they're "all truck" from the
ground up. This means extra power and stamina for
the tough jobs, plus long life, low operating and
maintenance costs.
Make a feature by feature comparison with any other
truck and see for yourself. Your International Harvester
district office or dealer will gladly tell you why
International is your best truck investment.
CHOOSE FROM THESE MODELS
AL-110 UTILITY.
15 cwt.; 115" W. 8.; o.h.v.
engine; 220 cu. in. displace-
ment; max. h.p., 100; max.
torque, 173.5 Ibs.-ft.
AL-160 MEDIUM-HEAVY.
4-5 ton; 154" and 172"
W. 8.; o.h.v. engine; 240 eu.
in. displacement; max. h.p.,
108; max. torque, 192 Ibs.-ft.
AL-130 LIGHT TRUCK.
30 ewl.; 134" W. 8.; o.h.v.
engine; 220 cu. in. displace-
ment; max. h.p., 100; max.
torque, 173.5 Ibs.-ft.
AL-162 MEDIUM-HEAVY.
5-6 ton; 154" and 172"
W. 8.; o.h.v. engine; 240 cu.
in. displacement; max. h.p.,
108; max. torque, 192 Ibs.-ft.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
555
SsS^JS^ 1
«ae
Dandenong Works,
Victoria.
February, March and April will
provide good flushing feed for
ewes and excellent recovery
growth for feeding early in the
spring.
On fertile soil, to gain the best
return from a crop sown fairly
late it is advisable to cease graz-
ing early in spring and harvest
the crop for grain.
Plough, then disk, harrow and
roll to produce a firm crumbly
seed-bed. Drill the seed to 2in.,
and if a grass mixture is to be
sown roll the area after sowing
and broadcast grass-seed. Then
cover with light harrows. Under
good conditions If bushels of
rye-corn per acre should be
adequate. If sown as a “nurse”
crop with short-rotation rye-
grass or as a clover crop, re-
duce the seeding-rate to one
bushel (541 b.) per acre plus 101 b.
to 151 b. of grass. Use Ifcwt.
of super but if grass is to be
harvested increase to 2cwt.
That Merino Ban
“G. Elburg”: “Outback” (B.
19/11/’52) quotes and supports
Merino studmaster Falkiner in
his advocacy of lifting the ban
on the export of rams. The sub-
stitute-fibre bogey is discounted
by the keen competition for Aus-
tralian find wool and the high
prices it commands in world
competition.
This type of fleece is Aus-
tralia’s outstanding asset, the
result of many years of selective
breeding. Surely it would be
folly to provide potential rivals
with the means of lessening the
present demand for Merino wool.
Should the De Beers organi-
sation relax its grip on the selling
of diamonds the artificial jewels
would get a severe knock, but
the South African monopolists
don’t suggest the flooding of the
outside markets to prevent the
brummies getting a bigger hold
on buyers than they have
already.
Sharks in the Pool
“S.”: Proposed Australian
honey-pool, wherein the bee-men
intended making themselves safe
from the speculator sharks, has
abruptly sprung a bad leak. The
marketing position—because of
three bad honey years—has
never looked brighter. Yet
prices are down.
A year or more ago South
Australians set up a Honey Board
to show the rest how honey
could be produced and sold
by the beekeepers themselves.
For 12 months they showed
how. Then in the first
week of October, when market-
ing never looked brighter,
the A.B.C. announced that the
S.A. board had reduced the price
of honey overseas —to clear
stocks carried over.
Whether or not there is to be
an Australian honey pool has
yet to come to the vote. But
what little faith the average bee-
herder had in pools or boards
has just about gone over the side
after this demonstration from
S.A. Old-timers who have sur-
vived a score or more years of
cut-throat selling and who have
been battling to get this Com-
monwealth-wide pool going will
wish flip Croweaters at the
bottom of the Torrens.
Hints for the Farm
“Wilco”: If the tick is found
and destroyed, a badly-paralysed
dog will recover in time —if its
strength can be maintained (B.
10/9/’52). However, it often
dies of exhaustion, helped on by
lack of nourishment. Helped a
very sick bitch cling to life by
giving her a few spoonfuls of
milk laced with brandy between
spells of coughing. It had to be
given very slowly.
“Bill C”: It’s a fallacy that
sugar blown into the eye clears
up eye troubles in horses (B.
22/10/’52). Anybody who has
had crystallised sugar in his
eyes knows how irritating it is.
“C.A.A.”: Geese make a good
poultry sideline because they
will obtain practically all food
requirements from the pastures.
At times they may have a little
supplementary grain or mash,
but the cost of feeding geese,
per pound weight, is lower than
any other line of poultry.
Geese live and breed freely
for up to 10 years, require a
minimum of attention and, owing
to their ranging habits, do not
easily contract diseases. They are
particularly suitable for northern
areas. Breeds which will do well
are Toulouse and Embden or a
mixture of the two, although
the Chinese is a more upstanding
goose and a very prolific breeder.
“Springvale”: Mildew in vine
vegetables at its first appearance
can be checked by dusting with
sulphur. Half-strength Bor-
deaux mixture (2-2-40) can be
used on cucurbits other than
rock-melons or cucumbers, both
of which are susceptible to
Bordeaux injury. Restrict the
runners in order to promote
lateral growth.
“Ibis”: A paste of washing-
soap and baking-soda will re-
move grass-stains. Most stains
are removed easily when fresh,
and it is best to tackle the job
as soon as convenient.
“Gam”: An adequate ration
for a medium draught-horse at
moderately heavy work is 221 b.
of chaff and 61b. of oats daily.
When chaff is dear and wheat is
cheap this ration could be sub-
stituted by one containing 121 b.
of chaff, 41b. of oats and 81b. of
crushed wheat fed four times
daily. When using a concen-
trated ration, however, be care-
ful not /to overfeed, as the horse
will have received enough nutri-
ment for his daily needs before
the stomach is actually full. If
the animal is allowed to fill the
stomach it may become sick.
“Sarina”: Cauliflower, cab-
bage and tomato seed for early
crops should be protected from
the midday sun in warm districts.
Neither seeds nor seedlings can
bear the burning heat of exposed
beds. Give the summer seed-
beds an easterly aspect.
Medium-sized beds can be effec-
tively sheltered by sheets of
corrugated-iron mounted on
stout sticks 3ft. to 4ft. high. The
sun shines under such a shelter
early morning and late after-
noon, and damaging rains are
kept off. A little water and often
is a good summer rule; drying-
out following flooding and vice
versa means “damping off.”


hfg
THE Ideal Gift
FOR YOUR SON OR GRANDSON
“ROBINSON CRUSOE”
A MAGNIFICENT CHRISTMAS PRESENT
Beautifully Printed and Brilliantly Illustrated
by one of Australia’s Leading Water Colourists,
Available at £2/2/- from your nearest Bookseller or direct from the Publishers
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN ga queen street, Brisbane
A Few Copies of a Leatherbound Limited Edition, Numbered and Signed, are available at £5/5/~
r
XMAS GOMES
ONCE A MONTH
WHEN YOU GIVE A SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
BRITISH BOOK OF THE MONTH CLUB
Every month a gift ... a best-selling book to read and
enjoy. A subscription to the BRITISH BOOK OF THE
MONTH CLUB makes Xmas last through the year.
Each month the BRITISH BOOK OF THE MONTH
CLUB publishes a special edition of a recent first-class
book and posts it direct to members at much below
normal price—£s 15s. worth of books for £2 ss. Books
for the next 6 months are;
THE PAPER PALACE Robert Hading
THE MEANING OF TREASON Rebecca West
MY COUSIN RACHEL
FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE
THE BETROTHED
A BREEZE OF MORNING
There are optional choices .
Daphne du Maurier
Cecil Woodham-Smith
Alessandro Manzoni
Charles Morgan
send for a complete
descriptive list of all books available.
Special for Members only
BOSWELL’S LONDON JOURNAL 11/6
DRAWINGS OF LEONARDO DA VINCI .. 22/6
m
POST THIS COUPON FORM WITH REMITTANCE
The British Book of the Month Club,
G.P.O. Box 4657, Sydney.
Please send a 6 months’ subscription ut £2 10 0\ .
Please send a 12 months’ subscription at £5 0 0J lo
NAME
ADDRESS
L
Bulletin ,10.12.52
if by any chance the natives themselves
have now incorporated these words into
their songs, it is startling to the point of
absurdity to have these aboriginal demi-
gods announcing, as in prehistoric times
they approach the Australian coast, “The
bird flies with hanging claws.... The
noise of its cry, as it circles! Foam
covers the sea! It cries as it circles,
away out from Port Bradshaw” ...
But that is a minor detail. As a whole
it is a crisp, clear and attractive transla-
tion ; and, though the song-cycle as it is
here printed in full for the anthropologists
contains too much repetition for the
reader interested primarily in its patches
of poetic merit, a selection from'this and
other cycles would make a remarkably
interesting anthology: a suggestion one
hopes Mr. Berndt will consider.
If it is true —as it seems to this reviewer
—that most critics are very much inclined
at the moment to overrate the art of the
aborigines in their primitive bark-draw-
ings and cave-paintings, is it perhaps
equally true that we have underrated him
as a poet? Without claiming more for
these songs than that they make a charm-
ing primitive saga, it may well be that
the aborigine expressed himself much
more fluently in the basic human medium,
of the word than in the acquired art of
the painter.
D. S.
Australian Seashores
Professor W. J. Dakin has left us, in
his posthumous work, A ustralian . Sea-
shores, completed by Isobel Bennett of
the Department of Zoology at the Univer-
sity of Sydney, and Elizabeth Pope,
M.Sc., of the Australian Museum, a
noble “guide for the beach-lover, the
naturalist, the shore-fisherman and the
student” ; and Angus and Robertson’s
production of this 360-page work, with
its hundred plates, each carrying. from
two to 10 numbered and ticketed exhibits,
puts it among the best of the rich flood
of encyclopaedic Australian nature-studies
that has run from Australian presses
since the war. ' '
The field of the work is narrow —-the
strip of beach and rock between high
tide and low tide—yet anyone who suc-
cumbs to Dakin’s blandishments and
becomes- a student or collector of sea-
weeds, anemones, crabs, worms, octopi,
mussels, oysters, starfish, barnacles, sea-
urchins, should find in this book the basis
of a lifetime’s endeavors," while to $
nature-hater like the reviewer, who likes
his nature-study brought home to him on
a- silver salver- well, this is. the silver
salver—a low-life entertainment, a veri-
table vaudeville. Part of the ground was
covered lately by Joyce Allan’s excellent
Australian Shells, but Dakin,has a wider
variety of characters and often something
of his, own to add even to the shellfish.
Thus to Miss Allan’s violet snail, Janthina,
who blows bubbles with his foot and
goes floating on the ocean, shell and all
held lip by these hard bubbles there is
added the photograph (Plate 63) —“prob-
ably the first ever shown to illustrate the
living animal complete.”
A sea-star or starfish, among Dakin’s
performers, exhibits the virtue of
patience ; he opens oysters humans can-
not open with their bare hands. The
terrific muscular effort that keeps the
oyster closed does not last for ever ; and
the starfish, exercising gentle but con-
tinuous pull with its tube-feet,, exhausts
the oyster’s resistance; the shell opens,
and in'goes the starfish’s central, under-
sided mouth to feed.
Another sea-star pushes its stomach
through its mouth, wraps it around small
shellfish, sucks back stomach and shell,
squirts the shell with acid that opens it,
digests the fish and spits out the shell.
Brittle-stars are contortionists who
really give you your money’s worth: put
your hand near them and they throw
their arms away ; some, just to teach you
a lesson, throw their stomachs away—
all, evidently, with a high moral purpose,
. and not like the selfish crab, who has a
muscle that disconnects a broken leg or
jaw so that the stump can seal itself and
not bleed him to death.
The Prawn-that-Beat-the-Navy, Cran-
gon, the “snapping-prawn, pistol-prawn
or nipper-prawn,” has one daw much
larger than the other; at the base of the
moving finger, or thumb, of this claw is
a peg which, when the claw closes sud-
denly, snaps it into place with a noise
like glass breaking. During the war, when
valiant seamen began listening for
submarines with extremely sensitive
apparatus, gramophone-records had to
be made to reassure the Navy that the
pistol-prawn was not another secret
weapon, and scientists took especial
interest in the creature, concluding that
it is indeed a kind of water-pistol. The
jet of water that spurts out when the
peg clicks home is used to frighten
enemies ; but whether the noise is made
by the peg or the tips of the nippers
meeting, the scientists cannot decide.
One of the most beautiful things in the
sea, a worm, Sabellastarte indica, holds
the record for a quick-disappearance act.
It lives in a tube about seven inches long
in rock-pools, and all its beauty is in its
flowery head of hair; but a passing
shadow will cause it to pull its head in
“with such amazing speed that it just
disappears instantaneously from sight.”
Next-speediest is the eight-foot beach-
worm Onuphis teres, who arches his head
over your finger so that you can clamp
your thumb down and drag him out of the
sand—if you are quick enough. “Its
extraction from the beach seems to be
an artistic achievement in which only
experts —fishermen and small boys—
excel.”
The most mysterious worm is Chcetop-
terns varipp eclat us, which lives in a dirty
papery tube, both ends of which stick out
of the sapd. It has a set of paddles to its
middle by which it draws sea-water,
which holds its food, in at one end and
expels it from the other ; but although it
never puts head or foot out of the tube,
it. is “one of the most perfect examples
of luminescent animals known.”
Some of the surprise of this book comes
from* the average man’s refusal to use his
eyes, or inability to think about what he
sees: it is obvious, as soon as. Professor
Dakin points it out, that the Australian
lobster is not a lobster, since it has no
claws—how often has one looked a
lobster in the face, and. not known that
he was really a “spiny lobster, or rock-
lobster, officially called the sea-crayfish
or sca-crdwlish!”
How often one has wondered what the
triangular inset in the underside of a crab
might be, and not realised -that the crab
is a glamor-lobster or glamor-prawn that
has been to a school for glamor-models
and been told to tuck its tail in! Though,
with the highly-developed nippers, the
resemblance ends, of course.
Nor, until Dakin brought the matter
up, did it occur to one to wonder
why the beautifully-marked cowrie-shell
has such a high polish while ordinary
shells are comparatively worn and rough:
one would have imagined that the polish
had been contributed by generations of
otherwise-unemployed maiden-aunts. Not
so: the cowrie’s mantle, that flesh-cover-
ing of the animal whicli edges the lip of
its shell, extends beyond the lips on both
sides, climbs round and up the outer wall
of the shell and meets on top, making a
complete protection for the shell.
These are only a few of thousands of
curious facts ; and it must not be thought
that the book is a mere boyhood bobby-
dazzler. It opens with wonderful chapters
on the sea and the tides, the formation
of coastlines, the beaches and rock-plat-
forms and of which the book
is a study; plankton, the luminescence
of the sea, which is not phosphorescence,
but the product of tiny creatures; and
an extraordinary chapter on chromoto-
phores, the bags of pigment which, when
their shape is altered by muscular con-
traction, can change the color of an
octopus in a flash from rock-color to light
sand, or prawrls from dark night-color
to red-brown or green.
One mild protest to be registered is
that, though every chapter of this glorious
marine vaudeville is headed with a quota-
tion in verse, not one is from an Aus-
tralian poet.
R. McC.
SEA LEVEL
Over this flat-pan sea, this mud haven,
This shelf of the sea-floor, sea-birds paddle
And the red mud raddles the sea.
You are on creation’s level. Proven
Your lowly origin, where, in one puddle,
Sea-snails and your toes agree—
The same spasms and rhythms. Stub
On a rock, or a sharp stab of a beak;
They draw in. Pain is the one language
Spoken to them. You, in the'sky, snub
Your feet. Impediments! But can you take
Your brain’s cloud and drift, disengage
The body’s pawns? Try: disconnect
The thought from their feeling, and soon
the soul is wrecked.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 203
Across.
I— These North Americans take a
century before the brave man is
to search the wrong way. (9)
6 —Reptile jar for a decrepit crea-
ture. (5)
9—Nap skins backing. (5)
10—Red suggests where you might
dig up an auto. (7)
II — Nothing between a drinking
saloon and snares for such
honored people. (8)
12 —Devil is to be 51 before Capone.
(6)
14 —A second enunciation of points
shows that the remainder shal-
lowed human flesh before tea. (11)
16 —Arrest. (3)
18— A snare is free from all charges
and deductions. (3)
19 — Put on by a run-getter. (3)
21 —Cook notes a corporation on
Walter, the bounder. (3, 8)
24 — Bends over the flagons. (6)
25 — Pop the motionless east for a
jujube. (8)
27 —Clocks, hour-glasses, sundials,
burning candles, etc., and such a
record is without limit. (3, 4)
28— Afterthought to knock out five
in this Russian lake. (5)
29 — Money ends up with a distress
signal. (5) .
30 — Slaughters a religious service by
the estates. (9)
Down.
1 — Shellfish, join the Communist
party, when scrambled up! (9)
2 See runs another way and makes
matters certain. (7)
3 Pacific area. (7)
4 a pin sextet thus rearranged
whoever used to be cases. (2-8)
5 Punch goes on foot. (4)
6 Snappiest mongrel goes to inter-
national sport. (7)
7 Ring the wing in view. (7)
8— Cayenne measure for the death
tolL < 5) ,
13 —Wristbone encountered a fish
with you and me. (10)
15—Catcall. (3)
17 —Such feasts command the drink-
ing saloon to be equipment for
pool. (9)
20 — Dopes spaghetti. (7)
21 — Flowers available when father is
cooked in patties. (7)
22 — Tobacco from Laodicea-ad-Mare.
(7)
23 — Conference cobber to swear. (7)
24 — Like a knife or a needle that is
barely honest over the pitch. (5)
26—Ray mentions half of a theme for
Hamlet’s discourse before morn-
ing. '(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 202


AUSTRALIA
FOR
a
55*
il
ffippnsf
v'-* • -
■
m
■ •
■‘w-; - : -V
SSS*
AS
rSiSii?
vjs:- •■ -
l\.ji - - -
V “
mm
m
TO
IM
■
DEFENCE
£0 A L
STEEL
/
rOo
WAT
hoads
Transport
D
fe '6 >
a i? 55
□
I
mm J
i
■
&
__»a
$
m
t
■SV*
3?
The leaders of thought responsible for the well-
balanced development of Australia's future agree
on these seven great basic activities as essential to
our future.
Hastings Deering's are now making available the
necessary WORK-POWER, in the form of huge earth-
moving machines, power shovels, cranes, draglines,
tractors, road-graders, bulldozers, trucks and
tippers, that are needed for Australia's great and
vital national projects under the main SEVEN
headings.
We are providing for Australia: —
• CATERPILLAR TRACTORS
(for NX and N. Guinea).
• BALDWIN LIMA HAMILTON
Shovels, Cranes, Draglines.
9 MICHIGAN Shovels, Cranes, Draglines.
• FORD Industrial Units.
• A.E.C.
Diesel Truck, Trailer, Tipper Chassis.
• HARLAND & WOLFF
Diesel Electric Generating Sets.
In the last year we supplied £2,749.573 (just
on two and three-quarter million pounds
worth) of this type of national development
plant.
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LTD.
MR. H. HASTINGS DEERING,
Chairman of Directors.
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT COMPANY LTD.
Hastings Peering Building, William St.. Sydney. Telephone M 0412 (33 lines) • Alice Springs, Central Australia • Lae, New Guinea


wnsi
Hi
ii mum an ram i
if nil an an ram'
II nii ra3.anra®i!|
!! Ji.wsss*
ii
I!
ii k^SShb!!
ii ,
it ii n
ii
« ii
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
w. p. McGrath
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY.
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
DR. W. J. McCRISTAL
General Manager:
G. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR. A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA;
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.I.C.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.I.C.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA;
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA;
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke
Manager: L. H. Williams
•
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry
Manager: W. Dwyer
Select
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878)
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
REQUIREMENTS
Policies Issued to Sait
Every Individual Need
POLICIES CONTAIN
SPECIAL ACCIDENT
BENEFITS
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
