

The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3771
Wednesday, May 21, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
FAMOUS MEN WHEN
SCHOLARS WELL KNEW THE
BRIDGE OF SIGHS
A MONO the great halls of learning in
, whose ancient walls are
reflected in the quiet waters of the River
Cam, is St. John’s College, founded in
1511. It was established on the site of
the thirteenth century Hospital of St.
John, by Lady Margaret Beaufort,
Countess of Richmond and mother of the
Tudor King, Henry VII (1485-1509).
She was also the foundress of neighbour-
ing Christ’s College.
St. John’s is entered by one of the
most graceful of all Cambridge gateway-
towers, completed in 1520. In the first of
the four Courts is the large Chapel, built
by Sir George Scott in 1869, which re-
placed a much older building. On a
window in the kitchen may be seen a
memorial inscription to the poet Words-
worth, who was a distinguished Member
of the College. His portrait by Pickers-
gill hangs in the Hall. Other famous
members of St. John’s College were Lord
Palmerston, Samuel Butler, William
Wilberforce and John Ruskin.
The second Court is a fine example of
Elizabethan brickwork: on the north side
is the Combination Room, described as
one of the finest panelled galleries in
England and possessing a richly decorated
plaster ceiling. Among the many valu-
able manuscripts and early printed
books in the Library in the third Court
is a vellum copy of Cranmer’s Bible.
From this Court the Bridge of Sighs,
built in 1831, spans the River Cam, which,
in making its placid way through the
chain of gardens and lawns behind the
Colleges, completes the unexcelled beauty
of the region known as “The Backs.”
Here in a setting of drooping willow-
trees, limes and centuries-old green
lawns is the pride and glory of
Cambridge.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4.


ifllßESl
ff%yiJSSffl
at HOME
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL'
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address .
(8.8.865)
Age.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIANA.
The third volume (1839-45) of Mr.
Justice Ferguson’s stupendous Biblio-
graphy of Australia (Angus and
Robertson) is alive all the way through,
like the earlier volumes, with the dramas
and curiosities of our history as it was
mirrored in more than 1500 books and
pamphlets.
During the years covered by this
volume Stokes discovered Port Darwin
and Eyre Lake Torrens. Sturt explored
Central Australia and discovered
Cooper’s Creek. Strzelecki found gold
near Hartley (N.S.W.) and explored
Gippsland. Gold was also found by
Clarke on Cox’s River (N.S.W.), and
copper was found at Burra Burra (S.A.)
and Kapunda (S.A.). Leichhardt reached
Port Essington and Mitchell and Grey
also made important discoveries.
In 1839 camels were first introduced to
Australia and Ridley invented the stripper
in 1843. Sydney was first lit with gas
during the period. Caroline Chisholm
began her work among the immigrants.
These and other happenings were re-
corded and commented upon in printed
material issued at the time, much of
which was to become the source-books
from which the history of the period was
written. As in the earlier volumes
Ferguson describes this material in
chronological order.
Judge Ferguson has refrained from
literary criticism, though he may
occasionally quote the views of others, as,
for instance, Frank Fowler’s criticism in
“The Month” of Henry Parkes’s Stolen
Moments (1842). Said Fowler:
Never before did a man twenty-eight
years 01d... .publish such unmitigated
rubbish as these Stolen Moments... .We are
confident, indeed, that such a Sahara of
sterility was never heaped together before.
A writer who had a real claim to be a
poet was Charles Harpur, whose first
book of verse. Thoughts: A Series of
Sonnets (1845), was published by W. A.
Duncan, who dabbled in poetry himself.
This little booklet is extremely rare, and
the copy in the Dixson Collection was pre-
sented by Harpur to Duncan. Another
interesting “first” to be found in
Ferguson is Fidelia S. T. Hill’s Poems and
Recollections of the Past (1840), the first
book of verse by a woman published in
Australia.
So widely has the author thrown his
net that a prize poem on Australia recited
in Rugby School and printed in Rugby
is included in the bibliography. In the
copy of the poem in the Petherick Col-
lection in the National Library, Can-
berra, there is inserted a letter to that
grand old collector in which it is stated
that the author of the poem was a boy
named Hardy. Ferguson’s annotations
teem with such out-of-the-way bits of
information.
An author whose plays have a special
interest because of their early date and,
though they have been decried as
literature, are readable and not badly
constructed, is David Burn. His Plays
and Fugitive Pieces in Verse (1842) was
the first volume of plays in verse pub-
lished in Australia.
An item cherished by Leichhardt col-
lectors is Robert Lynd’s Leichhardt’s
Grave (1845). Lynd, a friend of
Leichhardt, was barrack-master at
Sydney. The publication is in the form
of a song-sheet (music by Isaac Nathan),
and mourns the death of the explorer,
who was then generally believed to have
perished on his journey to Port Essington.
The item, doubly valued for this error, is
very rare.
Judge Ferguson points out that “it
must not be thought that every printed
item dealing with Australia in the long
course of years from 1784 to 1845 has
been offered in this work ; although every
effort has been made to make it as com-
plete as possible. Already a considerable
list of addenda to Vols. I and II has been
compiled, which will be published as an
appendix to Vol. IV (1846-50).”
As in the earlier volumes, there are re-
produced here photographs of the title-
pages of items of great rarity or excep-
tional interest. One such is a full
report of the trial of eleven men
for the murder and burning of
aborigines on Dangar’s Station, Myall
Creek (N.S.W.). The accused were
all acquitted of the murder of Daddy, an
aboriginal, on June 9, 1838. They were
not released, but charged with the murder
of another aborigine, convicted and
executed. The case aroused great public
excitement owing to the execution of
white men for killing aborigines. Copied
from the Sydney “Gazette,” the book
was published in Glasgow.
Another work to make the blood run
cold is Full Particulars of the Dreadful
Shipwreck of the Ship “Tartar” (1840).
The Tartar, bound from Cork to Sydney
in 1838, struck rocks 90 miles from King
Island, at the entrance of Bass Strait.
Ail on board were drowned except about
20 persons, who were carried on pieces
of wreckage to a small uninhabited
island. Trying to escape to King Island
on a fragile raft they were stricken with
hunger, and victims were selected by lot
to be killed and eaten. The story was
related by one of the two sole survivors,
who lived to return to Galway.
One of the fascinations of many of
these old books described by Mr. Justice
Ferguson is the wealth of curious in-
formation given on the title-pages. A
typical example is a book about John
Knatchbull, whose execution attracted
the largest concourse of spectators ever
seen in Sydney upon such an occasion.
Here is the title-page of the now very
rare pamphlet as set out by Judge
Ferguson in correct bibliographical
style:
The Life ( of J J. Knatchbull, j Executed
at Darlinghurst, Sydney, on Tuesday, I Feb-
ruary 13, 1844, j for the | Horrid Murder |
of Mrs. Jamieson: | Containing | Full Par-
ticulars of his early Days—Entrance in the
Navy | —Personal Courage and Intrepidity
in twenty-two j Engagements—Promotion to
the Rank of Commander ] Subsequent dis-
missal from the Service | for Tyranny, j His
Private Life and Adventures in London, as
a Rake ( —Seducer —a Gambler —and his
final Cap- ] ture as a Pickpocket. | His
Colonial History | from the period of his
transportation to the last ) dreadful act of |
Atrocious Murder! j To which is added, j a
full Report of his Trial, ) and subsequent
vain attempt to set aside the Verdict, | his
Demeanour while under sentence | And | his
Execution. J The Whole comprising a most
interesting Record of this j case of unparal-
lelled Atrocity, j | Price Six-pence, j
| Printed for, published and sold by H,
Evers, King-st., Sydney.
Another interesting report of a
criminal trial described by Ferguson is
Life, Trial and Execution of John Taw ell,
the Quaker, at Aylesbury for the Murder
of Sarah Hart (1845). Tawell was trans-
ported to Sydney in 1814, having been
convicted of the charge of having a
forged note in his possession. As the re-
sult of his good conduct Tawell was
emancipated and set up as a chemist in
Hunter-street, Sydney. He engaged in
trading ventures, became rich, and built a
chapel for the Society of Friends in
Macquarie-street, which was opened in
1835. He returned to England with a
large fortune about 1840.
Among the civil trials described is the
Trial of the Case, Mudie v. Kinchela, for
Horsewhipping the Plaintiff (1840). James
Mudie had in his book The Felonry of
New South Wales reflected upon the
capacity of Kinchela’s father in his office
as judge. The younger Kinchela waited
for Mudie, who had recently returned to
the colony, and administered many lashes
(one witness said 50) with a horsewhip.
The defence was that Mudie well deserved
what he got as a common libeller and
that Judge Kinchela was now aged and
unable to take his own part. The jury
returned a verdict for the plaintiff to the
sum of £50 —one pound for each stroke.
A libellous and satirical work, which
was advertised but never published and
which probably would have been the sub-
ject of a civil action had it seen print, was
Rev. John Dunmore Lang’s The Life,
Adventures and Various Peregrinations of
that Versatile Genius and Noted
Swindler, George Cavanagh, Late Editor
of the Sydney Gazette, now of Port
Phillip. Cavanagh, an Irishman, formerly
a drummer in an English regiment and
footman to Lady Blessington, passed him-
self off while in New Zealand as the son
of Governor Darling, Unmasked, he
escaped to Sydney, started up as a milk-
man, but got into trouble for watering
the milk. Accused of robbing the till of a
woman who employed him as a clerk,
he was acquitted and brought an action
against his accuser for defamation and
recovered damages. This success enabled
him to furnish his house, and soon after
he became editor of the “Gazette.” He
left Sydney in a hurry and under a
cloud.
Among the scores of convict writings
listed by Ferguson is A Letter from Mr.
John Frost to His Wife from Port Arthur
(1840). Frost, a Monmouthshire Chartist,
was transported to Van Diemen’s Land
in 1840, conditionally pardoned in 1854,
and returned to England in 1856. He
wrote and lectured subsequently against
transportation. The only known copy of
this pathetic four-page document is in the
Mitchell Library. In The Life of John
Frost, published the same year as the
letter, it is stated that the scaffold had
been erected for the execution of Frost
and two other Chartist prisoners before
the question as to their conviction was
decided.
The Recollections of James Connor
(1845), another convict writing, was re-
printed from the “Fife Herald.” The
copy of this rare narrative in the Mitchell
Library, Sydney, is unfortunately incom-
plete, ending at page 66. Connor, who
seems to have been a man of great
courage and resource—his bravery was
acknowledged by the authorities while he
was serving his sentence in Tasmania-
escaped and made his way back to Scot-
land. George Benson, on the other hand,
took his sentence on the chin. Trans-
ported in 1828 for 14 years for house-
breaking, he served his full sentence, and
returned to Bristol, where, in 1843, was
published The Horrors of Transportation,
contained in the Life and Sufferings of
George Benson, the only Son of Re-
spectable Parents, of Rosemary-street,
Bristol, where he now resides.
Apart from these echoes of old tragedies
on the major scale, the bibliography
abounds in curiosities such as the little
paper-covered book A Mother’s Offering
To Her Children (1841). Written by “A
Lady Resident in New South Wales,” it
was printed at the Sydney “Gazette”
office, and is said to be the last publica-
tion issued from that printery. It con-
tains an account of Port Essington,
evidently written by a person who resided
there. It has a small claim to fame, since
it was the first book for children printed
in Australia.
An odd broadside is Mother, Don't
You Cry (1840), a ballad of seven verses
concerning a transported convict, who
reveals in the last verse that he has been
pardoned by the Queen.
Then there was “The Satirist and
Sporting Chronicle,” a Sydney weekly
which ran for eleven weeks early in 1843.
Its demise followed the imprisonment of
its editor (Dr. Revel Johnson) for two
years. Roderick Flanagan, in his The
History of New South Wales, described
the publication as a disgrace to the city,
and its editor as a surgeon “who, being
too much a man of fashion for his
legitimate calling, sought to obtain at
once a livelihood and a degree of
celebrity, by bringing to the surface that
vileness which ought to be permitted to
remain shrouded in its appropriate veil
of obscurity.”
To the student of Australian history
the bibliography is a wonderful source-
book full of sign-posts to all sorts of out-
of-the-way information. Ferguson lists
an invitation to attend John Batman’s
funeral, an election address by Ben Boyd,
instructions for the guidance of turnkeys,
the prospectus of Gould’s Birds of Aus-
tralia, Joseph Mac Sweeney’s essay on
aerial navigation—a curious prediction
regarding the exploration of Australia
and the development of flying—cata-
logues of wool sales, the programmes of
the first amateur theatricals at Perth, a
statement of the claims of the Henty
Brothers for a title of the lands occupied
at Portland Bay, “George Cruikshank’s
Omnibus” (1842), which contains interest-
ing Australian references, and “Billy Bar-
■ low in Australia,” an original song
written by “A Gentleman of Maitland.”
Librarians, journalists, students of Aus-
tralian history, and all who collect and
treasure early Australian books are im-
mensely indebted to Judge Ferguson for
the tremendous industry, painstaking
care and great scholarship that has gone
into this masterpiece of research. It is a
reference book that is unrivalled in the
scope and completeness of its information
and has earned its right to be classed
among the great bibliographies in the
English language.
The author had intended that the third
volume should cover a span of twelve
years, but as he delved into the period
such an abundance of printed material
reared its head that a halt had to be made
at 1845. With the publication of the
fourth volume (1846-50) the work in its
present all-inclusive form will come to
an end.
Mr. Justice Ferguson hopes fo complete
a fifth and final volume covering the
second half of the century, from which,
however, will be excluded fiction, drama
and poetry (already included in excellent
bibliographies by Miller and Serle),
statutes (available in several indexes, in-
cluding Hooker’s), Parliamentary papers,
legal publications, reprints of papers in
scientific journals; and newspapers and
periodicals—the last two categories being
well catalogued by Arnot and Pitt.
W. E. FIRZ HENRY.
Various Verse
THE GREAT WIND.
When the thinning vein shall feel
The flood die in the green leaf
To a still well,
A great wind through the silence
Shall rise like a galing bell
And swing on its lifting tone
The vulture wing of wanting
Over the sun,
And close the day in twilight
And call the last cloud down.
And the wind shall carve in flight
A bird to the spirit’s feather.
Breaker white,
That shall wheel with the tide whose
waters
Sound fulness out of sight.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
TONGUE ORCHID.
Moth or flower, flower or moth.
Neither moth nor flower but both
Fly in one sweet crystal flesh
Where the white tongue-orchids break
Dazzling from the old grey rock.
Day’s clear blue and sunlight dappling
Apple-gum and sheoak sapling,
Like long fine wings the petals flash;
But O from what grey depths of time
These flowers fly in their white dream.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
TRADITIONAL AIR
(King’s Cross Variant.)
Three black gins stood in the doorway’s
dark.
And their breasts were huge beneath their
clothes.
Their skirts were tight in a style just right
For thighs with the promise of the mid-
night snow.
Their hair was dark, and rich, and coarse,
And in it each one wore a rose
That burnt as red as the night’s own blood
Or the lips that were brighter than the
burning snow.
And each one’s mouth was a neon ligh
That was garish with the color that the
eldest chose.
And their dark, dark eyes were a backless
glass
Where we were drowning in the melting
snow.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
SONG.
Dress a doll, and make it dance,
That is love’s perfection:
To make a love, and make it last,
W& must create a fiction.
Dolls for the dull, and dancers for
the merry,
Dream a little pot of gold
At the bottom of your sherry.
Dress a doll, and make it dance,
That’s the lover’s fiction;
Make a love, and make it last,
And make it to perfection.
NSW.
KEVIN J. PIPER.
OUTSIDE THE WINDOW.
1. Ego.
Outside the window is a face.
This is the meeting of our eyes;
His the mirror in whose glass
The landscapes of our being pass.
One by one, from birth till now.
Sunlight stabbed, and shadow spoiled
That which was perfected once
in our first breath, and never since.
His face is hostage of the night.
The wind, the planets and the frost,
i stand within this room and shout
That I am here and he without;
And taunt his hunger with my bread;
And lift my drink before his thirst.
I call him enemy and thief:
His eyes are mine, and mine his grief.
2. The Dream.
Impetuous wanderer in the night,
The traveller that searches far
Beneath the pits of devilry,
Beyond the last cold star —•
O stay with me. You who are lost,
Are found indeed within my blood;
Anchored to my brief sanity
That rides the day’s white flood.
When the darkness throws a net
About my being's happy state,
Tangle your longing in that web,
Shrink into myself—and wait;
Lest the long journey take us both
Out of this time, out of this land:
The lonely borders of the mind
Are fenced by death’s strange hand.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN .


;
V S ;
*
r-'-
iii
mm
W ■: - '
* f ' A* *
Wooden Venetian Blinds made
to order in 4 weeks
These very attractive wood Vene-
tian blinds are made in our own
factory by skilled workmen.
These blinds are styled to add charm
to the finest interiors; they handle
easily and hang gracefully.
The materials used are only the
finest; the laths are selected
Canadian cedar, and the finish is
satin smooth and stands up to all
abuse. The tapes are Carr's English
ladder tape.
These blinds give you a most
permanent beauty.
We can match any colour to any
colour scheme. Priced at 7/3 sq. ft.
Minimum, 12 sq. ft. per blind.
Write, phone or call and we will
forward our easy guide to measure
on all types of blinds.
To glamorise your home
Jeldi, Pacific and
Gladys Grieve tailored chenille bedspreads
wtj m mm
m,
.. ■ . v- , , ' ' : :•;. .. '
f
n v*
!
1 '■
I
mn
m
t
Li i*.
f. m
kM
'J
V
-:v.
*ss
it mltC
SSS&fS?
a*s
: <# & *ll?i
ill II
illll « j.
s 'g ijfc ' $ 5
«i
.
Left:
Gladys Grieve No. 663. Box-
tailored bolster style. Six
inch box heading on skirt in
honeycomb pattern. Throw-
back sham with skirted
ends. Colours: Rose,
Green, Beige, White,
Mushroom, Blue and
Gold. Price £l4/17/6
3ft., £l4/19/11 double.
Above Right:
Jeldi Spreads in a full price
range from £5/11/3 to
£l3/11/3. Featured style No.
5A in full range of colours
and in pastel shades. 3ft.,
£5/3/6; double size, £5/11/3.
Ruffles Illustrated at left on
window in White plastic with
Red, Blue or Green trim, 30/-
Below Right:
Pacific Velwick Chenille No 20.
In tailored style in all colours
and pastel shades. £lO/13/6
3ft.; double-bed size, £lO/16/9.
m
ii
Hi
s*
sppl &.V* v', -11 H
isi* •■ : -Jl
si»
wn
mmm
msm
m
«
swag
Sst<s
**•<&
&;***&
m
mi
WM
liil^
f*£?£c
■
ms
: ■■:
S 5&
' TRUTH /DVEfmStfJR'
dfg
•M
FURNISHING DEPARTMENT, THIRD FLOOR, BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY. 'PHONE M 2401. FREIGHT
EXTRA.


cSSS
Our ESSE is the joy of our lives,” writes an
ESSE user. Certainly the Esse has every
cooking facility you could wish for—a big,
fast-boiling hotplate, generous simmering
area, and in every model there are at least
two ovens. All are hot and ready for use
twenty-four hours a day. Yet fuel cost is
extremely low. Savings in fuel bills soon pay
for the cooker and permanently reduce cooking
costs. No wonder the demand for ESSE Cookers
is world-wide.
i
■
m
Illustrating the “ESSE”
Premier No. 71 with auxil-
iary oven. A full range of
“ESSE” Ovens is available
to cater for from 4 to 400
persons or more!
-
T. 5. NETTLE FOLD t SONS PTY.LTD.
189 King Street,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
50 Elizabeth Street,
KEDFEBN, N.S.W.
223 Pulteney Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
1033 Hay Street,
PERTH, W.A.
The BATTLE OF THE SEXES
by JAMES HACKSTON
HE might have become a
great fight promoter,
but . . .
Whenever there was any
argument or quarrel at the
school to be settled, Tom’d
always fix it—arrange a fight at
the Quarry. He was a great be-
liever in the manly art for settling
all differences and disputes, with
*
after the blood and the black-
'Tcan still hear him: “Now
what’s the good of you two
making a mess of yourselves here
[playground] and letting Mug
Face [the teacher] in on the
row; it’s your row, not his;
you’re only making a gift of
yourselves to him for a belting,
I’ll fix up a decent fight between
you at the Quarry.”
I T was Tom’s old man who
1 first put the Quarry on the
m a p a s a clearing-station for the
district s differences of opinion,
personal insults, libellous and
slanderous statements, and so, of
course, it was only natural, and
right, that Tom, being a boy
w u °,^ /as P roud j o d rr l an ’
s ould honor and foster the fine
spmt his old man had set.
came about like this. Tom s
Id man s land adjoined Lund s
place, and at one time or an-
o er someone had put up a hut
on the roadside, that had a
corrugated-iron roof, and this
hut practically cut the dividing
line of the two properties-half
°f the hut encroaching on one
property, the other half en-
croaching on the other property ;
a nd it happened that both owners
claimed it, each one saying that
the hut was more on his property
than on the other one’s property.
Then toth men wanted the
corrogated-.ron for something,
ing, each one threatening fte
he’d remove it; and one
day both of them went along
to remove it and there met,
neither of them willing to share
it, but claiming the lot.
“Remove it and I’ll drop
you! ” said one.
“Remove it and I’ll drop
you !” said the other.
So there they cursed each
other, folded their arms at each
other, and in the end so adamant
and determined each of them,
neither of them budging an inch
or giving ground mentally or
physically, just glaring and
fuming, that Lund got up on the
roof and sat on it with a sort of
said: Possession-nine-
pomts-of-the-law. At which
Toms old man also clambered
up on to the roof with the same
look in his eye, the both of them
sitting as stem and invincible-
looking as the granite ranges
beyond.
So there they both sat, now
not saying a word, their faces
hard, mouths set in a grim line,
arms folded defiantly, and not
now even looking at each other
but both of them studying the
flights of birds, the new beauty
of the gums, and both pretend-
ing not to have noticed how hot
it was up there or how bad the
flies were.
With them sitting there all the
rest of that day, tea-time came
round and ne’er a budge or a
move was there, save that each
one of them would secretly, and
with the least movement possible,
ease his behind a little off the
scorching and inconveniently-
made corrugated-iron which was
beginning to mould grooves in
their behinds and, at the
same time, roast them;
or gingerly move a leg a little
this way or that way, to ease
the series of cramps that were
setting in.
Tea-time arriving, and no
husbands home, the wives and
families went looking for them,
and found them, still sitting like
sphinxes, and still gazing into
the Never-Never, almost; and
each family took sides with its
own sitter, and bad feelings rose
up more than ever between
them.
After this fiery family inter-
lude the two sitters had their
tea brought to them on the roof
and, later, their wives brought
rugs and, as night encroached,
both men settled down and lay
through the lonely vigil of the
stars, saw the possums shadow
the moon, and heard the iron
roof sighing back to coolness.
\ X/HEN morning came, each
sitter sat up, rubbed the
wax out of his eyes and again
folded his arms defiantly and
truculently on his again-swelling
breast. This done, breakfast
arrived, lunch, and then the last
meal of the day again.
With night coming down again
on both redoubtable foes, Tom’s
old man, who was a bit of a
reader, had a lantern and a book
brought to him, and Lund, who
was a card-player, had a pack
of cards brought to him and by
the light of the moon played
patience while Tom’s old man
read and showed Lund his back
so that none of the light from
his lantern would escape towards
Lund.
News of the event soon spread,
and it was not long before the
two sitters had callers, callers
took sides, people passing along
the road became interested, gave
advice, and cracked jokes, and
Lund interviewed a traveller, and
bought a cheap suit-length, and
Tom’s old man gave an inter-
view to another salesman, and
so as to be as good as his rival
bought some shares in a new
and “wonderful” venture.
By this time the hot iron had
raised blisters beneath the seat
of their pants and their faces
were burned as red as lobsters
from the reflected heat off the
iron.
Then someone said, “Why
don’t you fight for the flaming
iron?”
This challenging remark found
fertile ground, and Tom’s old
man roared out that he’d fight
Lund from sparrow-rise to sun-
set, and bet Lund two quid he’d
give him the biggest smash-
ing ever administered to a
man.
Lude took up the clarion-
cry, said he’d be de-
lighted to have the oppor-
tunity of punching fifteen
million blazing hells out of
the mean and scurvy hide of
Tom’s old man, and that he’d
bet Tom’s old man five quid
that Tom’s old man wouldn’t
see daylight for six months after
he’d finished with him.
“Where, and when?” he
roared.
Tom’s old man looked
thoughtful for a moment, as if
seeking in his mind to find some
place that would be worthy of
accommodating what promised
to be the fight of fights. Then
his face lit up ; he’d found it;
he sensed a gallery, saw it all
in his mind’s eye.
“In the old quarry,” he yelled.
“Saturday afternoon! ”
“The winner take the iron!”
Lund roared.
“The winner take the iron!”
Tom’s old man roared.
"THAT’S how the old quarry
1 became the Quarry and
renowned as the centre of all
local pugilistic art, that first
fight setting a standard of fierce-
ness and bloodiness to be looked
up to.
The pugnacious, determined
and colorful affair on the roof
had become so widely known
that, when it also became known
that the two sitters were to fight
it out to a finish, a large crowd
arrived at the Quarry and the
licensee of the pub, not wishing
to lose all her Saturday-afternoon
trade, had a keg and a barman
on the spot, to do business as
usual.
The Quarry was a natural
stadium. You walked over the
flat and bang into the mouth of
it. On three sides of it the huge
flat slices and slabs of slate-
grey and blue stone reached up,
mixed in with the reds and
yellow ochres of earth, some
catching the gild of the sun,
other parts retreating into the
((Continued on page 14.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3771
Wednesday, May 21, 1952
//V.S.IV t
faff os?" '
THE KELLYS RIDE AGAIN.
“By resuming rural land at 1942 valucs, plus 15 per cent.-'or elso'-the N.S. Wales
Governmant had robbed landholders in the State of over £20 million, Fairbairn,
M.P., claimed in the Representatives last week.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
ALL ABOARD FOR PEKING!
Issues never confronted before have
been raised by the visit of
Australian trade-unionists to Peking for
the May Day celebrations. For a genera-
tion Australia, a very easygoing country,
has been accustomed to delegations sail-
ing for Moscow at the expense of the
U.S.S.R., there to suffer indoctrination
and come home to repeat parrot-like
whatever they were told by their mentors.
Nobody even worried much when it was
proved before the royal commission on
Communism that in 1938 one of these
delegations took from Sydney for presen-
tation to the Kremlin the plans of a
submarine mine-detector device which
might have been of inestimable use to
Hitler, Russia’s 1939-41 ally.
If, of course, Mr. Menzies or Mr.
Fadden or the Liberal party had taken
the plans abroad and presented them to
somebody, that would have been a
different matter. The Communist party,
the Press, the “Labor” party—especially
Dr. Evatt and Mr. Ward —would have
combined to make the pig-iron incident
of 1938 sound like a whisper. Demands
by United Fronts, Democratic Fronts,
Peace Societies and all the Communist-
run unions would have vied in calls for
prosecution for treason.
The present Com.-organised visit to
Peking, however, seems to be something
which can scarcely be ignored. The dele-
gates “from the Australian trade-unions”
included Comrade T. Wright, a member
of the politbureau which manages Com-
munist-party affairs in Australia. He is
also general-secretary in N. S. Wales, and
is, or recently has been, Federal president
of the Sheet Metal Workers’ Union.
Mr. Wright is the spokesman of the
delegation. He was a member of Dr.
Evatt’s fourteen - points referendum -
campaign committee in 1944; The other
members of the delegation are Messrs.
P. Clancy (Building Workers’ Industrial
Union), W. Gardiner (Coalminers’),
W. Bird (Seamen’s Union) and J. Beitz
(Waterside Workers).
At the May Day celebrations in Peking
500,000 demonstrators marched past the
ruffian Mao, who, in his first annual
report, boasted that in process of coming
into power he and his Russian-armed
forces had annihilated over 8,400,000 of
his fellow-countrymen who had become
“bandits” by daring to oppose him. The
five Australian worthies were reported
present in the “distinguished visitors”
stand along with Comrade Ernest Thorn-
ton, who is now a Chinese commissar—
he, perhaps, decided, when he found that
his methods of maintaining power in the
Federated Ironworkers’ Association were
to be legally investigated, that it might
be better to remain out of the Common-
wealth.
Not content with attending this cele-
bration as guests of a totalitarian
Government which is wantonly making
war in Korea, and which has not even
shown a pretence of being a neutral
since the armistice discussion began in
Korea, it appears (according to the
cables) that the Australian delegation
visited an “exhibition of evidence of
germ-warfare by the Americans in
Korea,” and Mr. Wright “endorsed the
germ-warfare charges” and described the
Allied prisoner-exchange proposals at
Panmunjong as a “swindle.”
It was not, of course, necessary for
Mr. Wright and his comrades to go to
Peking to believe these vile charges. The
Australian Communist party believes
every whisper which emanates from
Moscow or Peking ; or, if it doesn’t, it
pretends to do so. The horror-propa-
ganda against the Americans began nearly
a year ago in Australia when the Com-
munist party started to circulate in thou-
sands documents printed in Bucharest
accusing the Eighth Army of murder and
ravage of the same kind that the Ger-
mans were accused of on the Eastern
front.
A later step was to allege that the
Americans were capable of starting
bacteriological warfare, and from that
point it was easy to provide “evidence”
which would convince the Communist
Press and bogy-hunting clergymen that
General Ridgway had been dropping “in-
fected beetles” in the snow behind the
North Korean lines, these curious-looking
insects carrying plague, cholera, typhus
and any other malady which the Chinese
imagination can conjure up. The accusa-
tions have expanded as the needs of
propaganda have called for novelty.
No question seems to have arisen in the
minds of Australian Communists about
the truth of the charges. In the first
place they did not wait for the slightest
scintilla of proof—the moment the
accusations were made they propagated
them enthusiastically. Stalin’s word is
proof enough for them all, from Sharkey
downwards. No horror has been too
improbable for them to disseminate
among an impressionable audience of
frustrated lady-poets and the kind of
minister of religion who is always ready
to believe the worst.
'There is, of course, a section of the
Crimes Act intended to deal with the
propagators of this loathsome type of
libel and co-operators with the North
Korean and Peking Communists;
24. —(1) Any person who within the
Commonwealth or any Territory (b)
assists by any means whatever any •
public enemy, shall be guilty of an in-
dictable offence and shall be liable to the
punishment of death.
But it apparently has become an
accepted axiom now that the United
Nations is in existence that patriotism
and treason are alike dead. U.N.O. seems
to have neither soul to damn nor body
to betray.
The members of the Australian delega-
tion in Peking are receiving transport and
entertainment from the people our troops
are fighting against in Korea. The enemy
has made use of their presence to dis-
trust of the Allied cause, to help mire
the reputation of Allied fighting-men, to
interfere with our Australian defence
effort and with recruiting for the Aus-
tralian units in Korea and for the force
designed to prepare against possible
Russian _aggression. It will be appalling
enough if the Australian unions whom
they purport to represent do not show
their displeasure in a material way ; if the
N. S. Wales Trades and Labor Council,
for instance, which is an actual section of
the Australian Labor party, does not take
some action about members and unions
involved. But if the Government takes
no action it will be infinitely worse.
Cahill on Forty Hours.
Premier Cahill, of N. S. Wales, has, to
use his own phrase, had awakened in him
an awareness that the “forty”-hour week
is under challenge both as a travesty of
awarded “standard hours” and as a deter-
rent to that improved man-hour produc-
tion for which at all times he is ready
to appeal in the politician’s plausible
fashion.
He was addressing the conference of
the police association. His reported state-
ment that in “the unprecedented growth
and development of this State in the post-
war years efficiency, I am proud to
say, has at no time suffered” might have
been taken as referring solely to the police
but for his general remarks on the 40-
hour week, of which presumably his Gov-
ernment is also proud. However, he
noted as a defect the continuing inability
so far of the State clothing factory under
the 40-hour week to provide the police
with their long-promised summer uni-
forms.
On the evidence piling up from every
other direction it would be interesting to
know by what standard Mr. Cahill
measures his Government’s “efficiency.”
In his report for 1950-51 his Commis-
sioner for Railways is quite unable any
longer to gloss over the 40-hour week's
effects upon the railways as the chief
vehicle of N.S.W.’s slide into bankruptcy ;
and with the predisposition of Ministers
to ignore this skeleton in their cupboard
the public may be assured that the rail-
ways report is no overstatement of the
calamity it reveals. The Commonwealth
Post Office is rapidly reaching the same
anaemic condition.
During the year 1950-51, the N.S.W.
railways operated at a loss of nearly £6i
million. Two steep increases in freights
and one increase in railway fares since
November, 1950, haven’t brought the drift
under control, and further rises in Gov-
ernment railway charges are plainly fore-
cast. This is what the Commissioner
says on “the trend towards larger
deficits”:
In 1947-48 the deficit was £111,585.
In 1948-49 (first fnU year of 40-hours) it
was £1,915,785.
In 1949-50 it was £3,494,605; and
In 1950-51 it was £6,417,483.
This large increase in the deficit during
the past year occurred despite Increases
in freight rates ranging from 16$ per cent,
to 40 per cent, and In parcels rates by 35
per cent, as from October 16, 1950, and in-
creases la metropolitan and country fares
by 12J per cent, as from November 1, 1950.
The facts are, of course, that the depart-
ment’s charges are badly out of balance
with the general level of prices and that
the position is rapidly getting worse.
Adequate adjustments have not been made
in the past to meet inflationary trends, and
unless satisfactory adjustments are made
in the future the railways deficits will
reach such proportions that they will
imperil the stability of the State’s finances.
In October, 1951, more increases in
rail freights were imposed—representing
166 per cent, rise on wheat freights, 100
per cent, on superphosphate, and 50 per
cent, on cornsacks. Still the railway ex-
penses keep ahead.
During the years since the McGirr
40-hour-week legislation came into opera-
tion the railway deficits have aggregated
about £ll milhon, and for 1950-51 alone
the combined losses of N.S.W. transport
services (trams and buses included) under
“Labor” Government amounted to over
£8 million. Even the railway refresh-
ment-rooms cannot pull themselves up.
As their business turnover increases so
do their losses. On a turnover of
£1,231,000 in sales of food and liquors
in 1949-50 they lost over £70,000; on a
turnover of £1,466,000 in 1950-51 they
lost over £86,000.
In the abstract of working expenses
the division responsible for the biggest
slug is under “transportation and traffic”
—total £11,359,000 in round figures as
compared with £9,225,000 for the
previous year. Disclosure of details in
this total is “discounted for the present”
—one of the things that gets the State
Auditor-General hot under the collar.
One thing the refusal of details conceals
is the amount paid for the year on
account of damaged and pillaged goods
entrusted to the Government railways
as a public carrier.
The effect of the 40-hour week is
clearly reflected in the growth of work-
ing expenses (the immense overtime bill)
from 1947-48 onwards. For the last full
year before the McGirr Government’s
40-hour Act hit the railways in the
solar-plexus working expenses were
£25,885,577. This is what happened to
them thereafter:
1947- .. £31,014,667
1948- . . 35,738,833
1949- .. 39,280,576
1950- .. 49,167,478
Of course one immediate cause was the
rise in wages (basic-wage) and cost of
materials used. But the 40-hour week
clearly provided the original boost to
that spiral, especially in its responsibility
for overtime at penalty rates of pay.
And overtime in the railways is fated to
be a permanent wasting-disease until the
“forty”-hour shame is abolished.
The N.S.W. Government Railways
operate 6112} miles of track. That is just
371 miles more than was operated 25
years ago. Yet it cost four times as much
as in 1926 to work and maintain those
tracks last year. In 1926 profits of the
service over working expenses were
£4 6s. per cent, on capital invested ; in
1950-51 they were only 3s. Working ex-
penses as a percentage of earnings rose
from 73.91 in 1926 to 99.43 in 1950 —
which shows how vainly higher freight
and fares have been applied by the Gov-
ernment to stop the rot.
The staff position tells the same story.
Ever since the 40-hour Act reduced hours
of the working week by 10 per cent,
the railways have been short of staff by
exactly that 10 per cent, of workpeople.
Death itself could not have decimated
railway employment more abruptly and
(it seems) finally. Resignations and early
retirements illustrated resentment of rail-
way employees against overtime demands
and the signs of a deteriorating field of
employment. “Of those who resigned
during the year, from 50 to 60 per cent,
left in the first or second year of their
service... .Many experienced men re-
tired voluntarily to take up outside em-
ployment where their earnings were sup-
plementary to their railway superannu-
ation allowance.” In the signals branch
“an unprecedented number of senior
technical officers” retired or resigned.
All attempts to obtain additional staff
during the year failed. Since then some
change has been reported, and the rail-
ways (and tramways) have taken in hands
discharged from industries affected by the
Commonwealth Government’s credit-
restrictions.
Railway services in other States, espe-
cially in Victoria, are fast joining the
rogues’ march in which N.S.W. has set
the example, and in Commonwealth
service the Post Office —an institution
which before these post-war years could
hardly make a loss if it tried —is now
caught in the same net. Increases in all
departmental charges have not checked
the drift, and for precisely the same
reason as in the State railways. The
40-hour award decimated the P.M.G.’s
staffs and the overtime resulting
enormously inflates the wages-bill.
There will be no stopping these ten-
dencies until the Governments concerned
decide that a fair day’s work is due in
return for a fair day’s wage, and that the
40-hour week shall be abolished as the
enemy of both.
Juvenile Delinquency.
(By a Sydney psychiatrist .)
I.
Some boys and girls are bom bad. These
are the ones who later join the ranks
of the murderers, the prostitutes and the
habitual criminals. The cause of their
condition is unknown. It may be a
disease of the brain ; it may be a glandular
disturbance. But all we can say with
any certainty at present is that a limited
number of children show no desire to
reform.
These children, however, represent only
a very small percentage of the juvenile
delinquents so common today. They are
common. Boys and girls, many of them
from good homes, run away from school,
commit minor crimes and progress to
greater ones. The history of so many of
them is standardised: truancy, the
Children’s Court, Mittagong and Gosford
(in N.S.W.) and, finally. Long Bay.
A great deal has been written on the
subject by psychologists, psychiatrists
and social workers; each expert, natur-
ally, inclining a little towards his own
specialty in a discovery of causes—broken
homes, slum conditions and the rest.
These factors are important, but, in my
opinion, they have been adequately dis-
cussed, and by this time most thoughtful
people are aware of them. There are
other aspects ; an important one is the
nature of the boys and girls themselves.
A normal boy, for instance, is “wild.”
It might help in understanding him if
we think of him simply as being “wild,”
and not in Freudian terminology. He is
also dirty, adventurous, aggressive and a
natural wanderer. It is true that a small
percentage of children are shy, timid and
deep thinkers; and these children need
special handling. But lam not discussing
this minority.
Plutarch remarked that the wildest colts
make the best horses, and the opinion
has been repeated, with and without
acknowledgment, by horse- and children-
fanciers since. Such men as Burton of
Arabia, Clive of India and Winston
Churchill were rather conspicuous failures
at school; some famous men managed to
get themselves expelled. Many students
of human behavior divide men and
women into two main groups: the agri-
culturists and the hunters. The distinc-
tion is more historical than exact, but,
broadly speaking, they place those people
who work in orderly patterns, who obey
orders, and who are not notably adven-
turous on one side of an invisible line;
those people who run away to sea, who
pioneer new countries and who are not
easily regimented on the other. Another
way of describing them might be: the
pedestrian and the horseman.
The British Empire, and all empires,
have been founded by the “hunter” type.
But there is a second wave of conquest,
of consolidation, and it is then that the
orderly-minded men, the administrators,
come into their own. It is a question of
time and place. The horseman is a vivid
and useful figure in his own setting ; he is
slightly comic in Sydney or Melbourne.
This is a sketch of a general theory, in
strong colors. The bulk of juvenile delin-
quents, in my opinion, belong to the
“hunter” class of mankind, and urban
civilisation chafes them rather severely.
It is undeniable, too, that although we,
as a people, are not conspicuously law-
abiding, we have a growing number of
laws and regulations to obey. It is the
day of the administrator, in various
strange disguises. Because of this social
background, and also because of a grow-
ing fashion of looking at simple things
with a pseudo-scientific gravity, youthful
wildness is taken a little too seriously.
Fifty years ago a boy ran away from
school, stole fruit, or “cleared out.”
If his father caught him he administered
a thrashing and forgot the incident. Or,
perhaps, the boy went to sea, returning
after a couple of years bigger, browner
and a hero to his young brothers. Many
famous professional men of today, and
some church dignitaries, were somewhat
wild as children. Perhaps it was fortunate
for them that there was no Child Welfare
Department then. On the other hand,
some of these men believe that the quali-
ties of initiative they developed at an
early age helped them enormously in later
life.
The world is an extraordinary and vivid
place to a child. For a little boy in the
country there can be no comparison be-
tween the world of men, as glimpsed in
the sheepyards, the machinery-shed and
the paddock, and the abstract world
defined in the classroom.
The modem tendency is to capture the
child in the classroom as early as pos-


sible and keep him there as late—in terms
of years-as can be managed. True, it may
be an elementary classroom to start with
—a nursery-school. Nursery-schools, in
city areas, serve a useful purpose. Many
of the very young children have mothers
who are obliged to work to support the
children and themselves, and the children
are well looked-after—milk, orange-juice,
nourishing meals and sleep, in prescribed
quantities. But the children cannot re-
ceive individual treatment, or individual
affection; there is a certain amount of
regimentation. This is not a criticism
of the nursery-schools, which exist to
meet a specific need. The problem is un-
avoidable.
At the same time parents, as a class,
are being gratuitously educated. They
are most carefully informed, by everyone
from Government officials to newspaper-
proprietors, what toys the child should
use and what games he should play ; what
good habits he should form and what bad
habits he must not develop. If a child
and more particularly an only child —
shows some slight deviation, such as suck-
ing his thumb or indulging in childish
outbursts of temper, he is in danger of
being taken to a psychologist or a psychi-
atrist.
At nursery-school, kindergarten,
primary school, high school, there is a
progressive process of regimentation,
although not necessarily of the old-
fashioned type. Teachers are themselves
products of the system they impose, and,
usually, they have gone straight from
school to a teachers’ college or a university
(with a year at the teachers’ college after
graduation). In either case the young
teachers’ experience of life is limited.
There are brilliant exceptions, but, gener-
ally speaking, there is a premium on
mediocrity in the Education Department.
This is the natural and unavoidable
tendency of all Government departments.
It is better to be safe than clever.
I am aware of the fact that there have
been changes, both in theory and in prac-
tice, within the Education Departments
of all Australian States over recent years
—changes initiated within the teachers’
colleges and universities. But it is re-
markable how fresh and challenging ideas
can become modified by departmental
machinery. It is one thing to write a
good essay on some aspect of education
in the detached and tolerant atmosphere
of a university ; it is another thing to put
some of the ideas contained in the essay
into practice under the cold eye of an
inspector who holds different views and
whose report can materially influence
one’s future. It is a vastly different thing
to retain enthusiasm after climbing the
departmental ladder, full of years and
good reports.
There is, too, such a thing as a pedantry
of reformers.
The personality and habits of thought
of teachers do, in fact, influence children
enormously. Teachers, particularly in
country towns, have a tendency to avoid
social contacts outside their occupational
circle, and to avoid taking their rightful
place as leaders of the community. Some
part of the cause of this behavior lies in
the extraordinary sensitivity teachers show
to contradiction by adults after the subtle
flattery of having their statements accepted
unhesitatingly by children. Another
reason is the economic one. Teachers
can’t afford to keep up with the local
doctor, solicitor or graziers. Another
reason is the fact that the townspeople,
for their part, are rather standoffish with
teachers.
The system, and those who administer
it, do no great harm to the naturally
docile child. But the “hunter” type
steadily resents school. Boys of this type
often have open natures and a sense of
right and wrong ; but it is their own sense
of right and wrong. They strongly re-
sent injustice, real or imagined. A time
comes—at anything up to the age of 12—
when the boy feels bound to express his
disapproval and to assert his boyhood
by absenting himself. Like a hunter, he
looks upon his behavior as primarily a
a contest between himself and the teacher.
There are certain rules to be obeyed.
It is the teacher’s job to enforce them.
If the truant is caught he expects to pay
the penalty ; if he is not caught, so much
the better —a philosophy of life adopted
in his youth by many a professional man.
If, as a result of his behavior, a boy is
handed over to psychiatrists or psycholo-
gists for investigation, he listens to them
attentively and treats them as fools.
A contrast to this disrespectful atti-
tude of the young is the immense respect
many an old G.P.S. boy still has for a
headmaster who thrashed him strenu-
ously, but with strict justice. It is signifi-
cant that these same men, despite all they
have read about child psychology and
the like, go to no end of trouble to have
their sons educated at their old schools.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Another Peking Picnic.
Following the visit to Peking by the
delegation made up of leaders of Aus-
tralian Communist-dominated trade-
unions, under the tutelage of Comrade
Tom Wright, another expedition which
is setting out is notable for the inclusion
of Dr. Burton, formerly secretary to the
External Affairs Department under
“Labor.”
Dr. Burton is going under the patronage
of a body called the “Committee for
Peace in the Pacific (in Opposition to
Rearming Japan),” which several Com-
munists —Mr. J. R. Hughes, Mr, Lewis,
Mr. Alexander, etc. —had a hand in
founding.
Its address is at 55 Pitt-street, Redfern
(Sydney). It has three separate telephone-
numbers and a P.O. box, and enough
money and assistance to large
deputations to Canberra carried in “Peace
Trains,” and to circulate extensively its
“declaration against rearming Japan,”
which at an early stage was signed
en masse by the Communist-party
politbureau headed by Sharkey.
Its petitions and/or declarations can
be signed at its own office or at that of
the Australian Peace Council, or at the
counter in the Sydney agency of the
Soviet Union’s Literature Bureau, an
annexe to the Communist H.Q. shop in
Market-street, Sydney.
Its president is the Hon. Clive Evatt,
its vice-president Alderman Albert
Thompson, who once seconded a
motion to expel from the A.L.P. anybody
opposing the Garden-Willis Red Rules.
These gentlemen are mentioned in a
circular asking for funds for the jaunt,
along with various clergy and others, in-
cluding “J. R. Hughes, Esquire.” Hughes
was one of the pilgrim fathers of the com-
mittee, as he was also of the Communist-
run Australian Peace Council —he is a
member of the politbureau which runs the
Australian Communist party, and just
back from the Warsaw Cominform Peace
Conference when these pacific-minded,
but far from gentle, committees were
formed.
It is mentioned that the delegation is
to discuss in Peking with visitors from
all ether Asian and Pacific nations the
“rearming of Japan” and “free trade and
cultural relations in Asia and die Pacific.”
It is, according to its publicity-secretary
(speaking to “S. M. Herald”), making its
voyage “in response to a cable from
Madame Sun Yat-sen, the president of the
Peking University (Ma Kin-yu) and other
leading citizens not connected with the
Chinese Government. The publicity-
officer seems iff informed. Madame Sun
Yat-sen is connected with the Peking
Government —she is its vice-chairman, or
was very recently indeed, and last October
Stalin sent his henchman Ilya Ehrenburg
from Moscow to present her with the
Stalin Peace Prize in the presence of
Chou En-lai, the Chinese Communist
Prime Minister.
It is reported that Mr. Arthur Calwell,
M.P., Dr. Evatt’s deputy, says he wants
Dr. Burton expelled from the “Labor”
party if he persists on going on this picnic
along with Dr. Macindoe, a N.S.W.
agricultural scientist, the Revd. G. R. van
Eerde (the secretary), and, among others,
a Mr. Giezelt, who was expelled from
the R.S.L. some time ago, an allegation
having been made that he had Com-
munist sympathies and associations
(which he has denied).
It is to be hoped that Mr. Calwell will
relent. It would be far less embarrassing
for Dr. Evatt if Dr. Burton, of his own
free will, decided to stay overseas, far
from the dreadful Menzies Government,
which he accused recently of plotting with
the wicked American imperialists to arm
Japan in order for it to attack Asia and
of scheming to hand over West Dutch
New Guinea to Japanese colonists.
Freedom to Spy.
Already mutters of the storm which
will break when the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment begins to root Communists out
of the public service are heard afar in
suggestions that this “Fascist” measure
would be an interference with the “free-
dom of the individual,” or something.
One example of how far this freedom
goes was printed in the “Tribune”
(14/11 /’sl>, the Communist official
organ, by its Canberra reporter, who de-
clared that “a highly-placed Government
official” had revealed to him the existence
of “a proposed treaty initialled in 1950 to
be included in a secret appendix to the
Pacific Pact.”
This revelation of a document “hidden
away in the top-secret files of the
Menzies-Fadden Cabinet” was made be-
cause the highly-placed official was “dis-
gusted to think that any Government
would sign away the independence of the
country in which they were born and
which they profess to love.”
The official’s “analysis” of the sup-
posed treaty . . • “hidden away by Can-
berra’s Guilty Men” ... is then given
clause by clause. And the “Tribune’s”
candid reporter completes his revelation:
Briefly, I was told, application of the
treaty and other Allied ties spells doom to
the Australian Constitution, to Australia’s
independence and membership of the British
Commonwealth of Nations.
It will be a sad day when the horde of
curious people who were inducted into
the public service by the Chifley-Evatt
Government, some of them openly associ-
ated with Communist and fellow-traveller
bodies, and one, at least, convicted of
spying in war-time before Australian
courts, shall cease to have access to what
the “Tribune” calls “the top-secret files”
of the Cabinet. Freedom will then indeed
be dead.
Sydney in 1952.
When half-way through the 17th decade
of its existence, Sydney, largest city in
Australia and second-largest white city
in the British Empire, knew a condition
of prosperity it had never known before
and may not know again for a long time.
With a climate enjoyed by few cities
and with a hinterland of great produc-
tivity and resources, standing on one of
the largest and best harbors in the world,
Sydney, from 1945 onwards, saw its trade
and commerce flourishing, its citizens all
profitably employed at high wages and
with its industries crying out for more
workers, and factories springing up like
mushrooms after rain.
Money flowed like water. There was
about the place the air of an old-time
gold-strike or a Texan oil-boom town.
The people spent recklessly. Everybody
was well-fed and well-clothed. All forms
of entertainment —theatres, nightclubs
(which also grew like mushrooms), race-
courses and dog-tracks, sports-grounds,
dance-halls, agricultural and industrial
fairs —reported record crowds, record
takings, record betting. A State lottery
was compelled to hold up to seven draw-
ings a week in order to handle the
business. Jewellery, furs, motor-cars,
liquor, tobacco —all the goods which de-
mand a moneyed community for their
sale —sold like the proverbial hot cakes.
There was almost frenzied trading in
stocks and shares, banks did record
business, and enormous sums in taxation
were collected.
Anyone aware of these facts and who
came as a visitor would have been justi-
fied in expecting to find a city reflecting
this general wealth. But Sydney does
not do so. On the contrary, for those
who live in it, at least, it might be a place
sunk in the direst poverty and with
thousands of unemployed. It is probably
the most uncomfortable white city in the
world in which to live.
Its electricity supply is disgraceful.
Blackouts of long duration occur over
wide areas every day and every night.
Its public transport system is decrepit,
dirty, constantly breaking down and in-
curring colossal financial loss. Its
hospital system is scandalous, its public
schools equally so. It is chronically short
of milk, dr water, or butter or some other
essential. Its roads for the most part are
falling into ruin. It has a black record
of strikes and an even blacker one of
pillage on its wharves and railways.
Night after night its people feel their
way round with candles and kerosene-
lamps, their food spoiled in refrigerators
and electric stoves. And that same food
is bought at prices which horrify visitors
from other States. Crime is prevalent,
housing conditions for many unbelievably
bad ; it has become the haunt of big and
little crooks. These conditions have been
growing steadily worse for the past seven
years, through all the period of unpre-
cedented wealth of money.
And all this, whatever denials or
excuses may be made, stands at the door
of “Labor” Government. “Labor” has
been in power in N.S.W. since 1940, and
though one “Labor” Premier has been
elevated to the Governor-Generalship
and his successor to a sinecure in the
Maritime Services Board, a third now
carries on, and things go from bad to
worse.
All the ills that Sydney suffers —black-
outs, shortages, transport scandals, in-
discipline and irresponsibility of those
whom it pays well to conduct its affairs
and serve its citizens —stem straight back
to “Labor” government. Elsewhere such
a Government would long since have
been called to account; in other times
Sydney would have called it to account j
it seems that “Labor” continues its
career of ruin today because sudden
“riches” have sabotaged public spirit and
destroyed civic unity in Sydney. The
city’s only hope lies in the now apparent
reduction of paper-money “plenty,”
which will cause its people to look around
them and see the pass to which “Labor”
government has brought their city.
"Bon Bloque."
“Ek Dum’s” goodbye;
To a certain military group of veterans that
peculiar phrase of approval conjures up a vision
of a lean, friendly figure coming to light m a
diffident, flashing smile which always seemed
to communicate a glow of warmth and friend-
liness to those around him,
It was John Whitham’s own particular form
of approval for some warrior whom he had
known in comradely fashion in his long war
years. And for him the world was full of
“bon bloques.” . _ j-
Son of an Indian-Army officer, born in India
and brought to Tasmania at the age of six, he
was the king of all “bon bloques” in his own
sphere. C. E. W. Bean’s verdict that he was
about, the nearest approach to Chaucer’s “parfait
gentil knight” in the A.I.F. would have found
approval among all bis comrades —one of his
A.I.F. messmates was Sir John Northcott. The
Army was his life; he was off to South Africa
before he had reached a proper manly age,
and served in one of the Imperial Regiments
and for a time in the Cape Mounted Police, a
strictly military organisation modelled on the
old “Staff Corps” of the Peninsula.
He was one of the pioneers of the Australian
defence organisation, being commissioned in it
in 1910. When World War I broke out he
was Inspector of Compulsory Training, but he
lost no time in joining the “six-bob tourists,”
and turned up in the official War History before
it was yet fully daylight on April 25, 1915,
leading part of the hard-fighting 12th Battalion
landing with the Queensland Ninth on the
southern flank of Ari Burnu. Later in the day,
when Captain Morshead joined Captain Lalor on
the spur beyond Malone’s Gully in the Baby
700 tight, Lalor said to him; “I don’t know
where Whitham is—hope he’s all right. He and
I were pals , . . Oh, it’s a .” But he
turned up presently well along on 400 Plateau
and on the spurs south of Lone Pine, operating
with such doughty lads as Gordon Bennett,
Pompey Elliott and Salisbury, who had been
his stablemate with the Ninth when they had
made the first landings on the extreme south
in the dark of the dawn—they were to be near
each other in many a stirring fight to come,
right to the end.
Whitham, like most of the young lions of
Gallipoli, was wounded on his first day of
action; but he was lucky, seeing that he had
taken his company straight across the southern
spurs of the plateau and had to weather the
heavy m.g. fire of Bolton’s Ridge, and share
with Gordon Bennett the shower of lead which
howled down on them during the drive ior
the Third Ridge. His issue came on Sniper’s
Ridge, where other units advancing found the
remnant of his men holding the “Knife Edge
with bits of the Bth, only one officer being left in
fightable condition. But he was back in harness,
a major now, in the Leane’s Trench affair in
June.
When Anzac Corps was formed early in 1916
Whitham found himself on the staff of Legge’s
Second Division, and, under promotion he was,
as he himself inaccurately expressed it, “out
of the war for some time.” He eventually
sacrificed the sure chance of great staff promo-
tion to command a fighting battalion, the 52nd.
His quiet, sterling courage stood out in the
advance on Monument Wood in the night attack
of April 24-25, 1918, which retook Villers-
Bretonneux from the Prussian Guard —perhaps
the most famous counter-attack of the war.
There it was, on the third anniversary of his
landing at Ari Burnu, that blindfolded Germans
were led out of the morning mist to deliver
the message: “My commander has sent me to
tell you that you are surrounded on three
sides. There are two of our Guards Divisions
and another division. He desires to know if
you will surrender and save loss of life.” At
which Whitham is reported to have exclaimed,
without even a glimpse at his remnant handful
of tired men: “What? On Anzac Day?” And
then, consulting the brave Christie and the
inevitable Salisbury and Major Forster of the
Northamptons—killed, alas, a month later he
thanked the deceitful emissaries for their infor-
mation and sent them, protesting, to the rear
to try their luck with Brigadier Glasgow.
When the 52nd was broken up Whitham was
given the 49th until they took him to fill
Dodd’s place as Brudenell White’s right-hand
administrative man. And be ended the war
as one of the most brilliant group of young
senior officers ever seen together in any war
except perhaps the Peninsula, and finished ms
soldiering in World War 11, a lieutenant-general
who had held most of the district senior com-
mands in the Commonwealth, as commandant
of the Victorian V.D.C.
Last week a little cluster of old comrades
of Gallipoli and France gathered on Sydney’s
North Shore to see him to his last rest, he
having spent the previous 50 years almost
entirely in the defence services of his native land.
The Wharf Strike.
The Communist sabotage of Australian
shipping moved last week rapidly towards
the explosive point of Government action
to assert the authority of the law. Hitherto
the Government has been concerned not
to intervene while the dispute was in
the hands of the courts, especially as it
was desired that opinion at the head-
quarters of Australian unionism should
support Government action when taken.
Experience continues to teach the
A.C.T.U. nothing. That body was in-
duced to sympathise with the Communist-
ordered ban on overtime on the water-
front as a protest against the margins
decision, because the margins issue had
been declared one on which the unions
should submit to A.C.T.U. leadership
rather than to that of the rival Com-
munist organisation which is now being
tried out. Judge Kirby, of the Arbitra-
tion Court, had refused to hear any
protest against the margins decision while
the overtime ban remained in force, and
the Full Bench of the court to which
(Continued on next page)


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
" METROPOLE”
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
in.
iirj 1 1
%> AIL- BRITISH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
g
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart fir Co. LhL«
London*
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements .
3*02
vs
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
£3B/10/-
+ sales tax
♦
BW 8631.
yr%
Z
X
T&duk
*2 HUNTER STREET SYDVKv.
AND SONS
PTY. LTDj
the Communist strike-leaders appealed
unanimously endorsed Judge Kirby’s
decision. In Sydney, Brisbane and Fre-
mantle the strikers promptly defied the
court’s order that overtime must be
worked. The A.C.T.U. sought another
conference with the strikers’ leaders in
the hope that this week’s meeting (on
Monday) would recommend lifting the
overtime-ban which, besides being in
defiance of the court, is also a breach of
the 40-hour award. It could not see that
the Communists had never respected its
authority, anyway.
Meanwhile the waterside tally-clerks
union joined the Communist strike-front
with a strike against the court-ordered
ballot for their executive officers, and the
Communists of the Miners’ Federation
central council issued a statement sup-
porting the waterfront rebellion and de-
claring that any Government action
against the wharfies’ leaders would be
taken as “a threat to the whole trade-
union movement.”
Thus the effect of the A.C.T.U.’s
having consented to ride some of the way
with the Communists left Mr. Monk and
his executive in a dilemma. While Mel-
bourne spokesmen for that executive said
the wharfies would be ordered to lift the
overtime ban, Sydney spokesmen said the
ban should be approved. Monday’s
wharf-stoppage was Australia-wide, The
Commonwealth Government’s action, of
which ample warning had been given,
was delayed only until the decisions of
the Monday mass-meetings should be
made known. The A.C.T.U. knew this,
too. Its false and uncomfortable posi-
tion is its own fault.
Commonwealth Government action
was expected early this week to follow
the lines of the proceedings for contempt
of the Arbitration Court taken by the
Chifley Government against Communist
strike-leaders, including the watersiders’
leaders, in 1949. After being fined and
sentenced to imprisonment on that occa-
sion the watersiders’ leaders, among
others, appealed for a hearing to “purge
their contempt,” which they did, under-
taking that henceforth they would accept
the authority of the court as superior tQ
decisions by their union executive.
POLITICAL POINTS
Capture of a U.S. brigadier by Com-
munist p.-0.-w. in a Korean compound,
which seems to be almost entirely sur-
rounded by reporters, adds a novel touch
to war. In less-glamorous wars any
reporter venturing near a p.-0.-w. camp
for the purpose of reporting the capture
of a commandant would have been
strangled at dawn with censorship regu-
lations or chased over the horizon at the
point of the bayonet. In Korea, however,
one of the objects of the Allies seems to
be to give the foe as much propaganda
material as possible. In fact, the Assist-
ance to the Enemy Publicity Corps
seems to be one of the most successful
in the Allied armies—Moscow and Peking
radios gloat over its prowess almost
daily.
U.S, Defence Secretary Lovett declared
last week that anybody who propagated
the “abominable and malicious” false-
hood that the U.S. was using gas and
germs in Korea was “lying in his teeth.”
Die charges scarcely needed denial —the
“proofs” in photographic form would not
convince Stalin himself. But Mr. Lovett
said that if the Communists were using
the charges to pave the way to “go in
for that sort of thing themselves” they
would “wish they had never been bom.”
N.S.W. Minister for Transport Sheahan
is threatening his State’s road-transport
men with heavier taxes and other restric-
tions, claiming that his railways are now
able—or about to be able—to handle
much of the freight offering. It can’t
even handle the coal now at grass—but
that doesn’t worry Sheahan. The rail-
ways are losing, so someone else must
suffer—even national development and
progress.
The Arbitration Court, by a majority
verdict, refused to grant the Federal
Attorney-General an order to make
Jackie Brown, Communist secretary of
the Vic. A.R.U., “cease contravening the
Arbitration Act.” The application was
made when Brown failed to supply the
Victorian electoral officer with names and
addresses of A.R.U, members for a postal
ballot by April 30. Brown claimed it
had been “impossible” for him to comply,
and the court held that if Brown con-
travened the Act by failing to supply the
information on the due date it could not
be held that he was “continuing in the
contravention.” All the same, the elec-
toral officer was told by the court that
he should not hesitate to see that the
election was conducted in a fair and
democratic way. Brown’s idea of a “fair
and democratic way” is to have the
union’s officers elected by the State con-
ference, of which Brown is a member,
instead of by the rank-and-file.
As control of the Federated Iron-
workers’ slips further and further from
the Corns, their “Tribune” raves and
rants more furiously against Short. The
national conference made a new rule to
provide that decisions by the union’s
management committee could only be
overruled by meetings of at least 15 per
cent, of branch members. This, of
course, made “Tribune” froth at the
mouth, because it is designed to stop, and
will stop, the Red trick of having small
Cora, coteries making decisions for the
whole union. It should prevent many
Communist-inspired strikes.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Treatt told
a meeting of women that the placing of
Labor” supporters in public positions
such as chairmanship of the Milk and the
Maritime Services Boards and member-
ship of sundry commissions showed a
belief by the N.S.W. “Labor” Govern-
ment that the State was above criticism
and must be all-powerful. “In the Gov-
ernment,” he said, “is utter contempt for
individual rights and for democracy.”
That’s only partly true; the McGirr-
Cahills have also realised that in their
State the public capacity for indignation
and resentment is almost non-existent. In
other words, the people have lost their
guts.
The Evatt-Cahill blather about Menzies
ruining everybody got its answer in
Cahill’s State. There the Government
lott’ry office has taken to drawing two
lotteries a day in order to cope with the
rush for tickets.
Wentworth (Lib.) and Keon (Lab.)
both took the Government to task over
the Maley affair during the Canberra
session last week, Wentworth saying it
was time the Government took its courage
in its hands and outed Communists from
the public service, and Keon saying that
Maley was a former Communist-branch
secretary. Minister Anthony, replying,
said Maley had admitted to having been
a Communist official. On the face of it
the public can’t be blamed for assuming
that, in denying Maley access to their
aircraft plants as a T.A.A. official, the
Americans were taking perfectly normal
precautions.
Approached by the A.C.T.U., N.S.W.
Labor Council, the Miners’ Federation
and sundry others, and told by Grant
(Miners’ Federation) that his mob were
“prepared to take direct action” if the
Federal Government disposed of the
futile Glen Davis shale-oil outfit,
Minister for Labor Holt said the Govern-
ment would definitely close the works on
May 30, but would consider a proposi-
tion to lease it to a co-operative of towns-
people and miners for £lO,OOO a year.
The deputation is now thinking it over.
It hasn’t taken long for Dr. Cunning-
ham Dax, the famous psychiatrist whom
the Victorian Government imported to
put its awful mental-hygiene system in
order, to find out about party politicians.
He is getting so little real assistance
from his employers that Collins-street
psychiatrists, who are 100 p.c. behind
him, say now that he might just as well
go back to England. Half-Premier
McDonald says that instead of criticising
him they should criticise the cause of the
shortage of funds —the Commonwealth
Government. Perhaps Dr. Dax should
psychiatrise McDonald.
U.N. Food and Agriculture Organisa-
tion says the worst locust plague for 100
years is threatening food-supplies in
North Africa and the Middle East. In
Australia food-supplies are being deci-
mated by a plague of control boards.
Up to the end of April the Korean war
had cost Australia 169 men dead and
£13.7 million in money. A lot of the
men were killed and most of the money
spent during what are called “truce
negotiations.”
The intermittent interruptions of Allied
patrols using the Western highway from
the West German border to Berlin sound
like the acts of a capricious lunatic. But
it is a cat-and-mouse game which the
Communists have played often to make
opponents lose their nerve and do some-
thing stupid which may be turned to
propaganda use. The atmosphere with
large Russian forces massed in Eastern
Germany and a line building like Hitler’s
West Wall, which was used as a spring-
board for the invasion of France, is not
easy, as was proved by the stern parade
of 100,000 U.S. troops, the largest since
the war, to mark American Armed Forces
Day and remind the Russians that “the
Allies won’t take any nonsense in the
coming critical weeks.”
Included in the Soviet peace plan for
Japan now being circulated in Australia:
All occupation forces to be withdrawn
from Japan within 90 days. Japan to
undertake to make no alliance with any
country which took part in the war against
Japan.
The natural sequence of events after this, of
course, would be; Red Army discovered
marching down Ginza at unanimous request of
all Jap patriots. General election and referen-
dum under Red Army auspices would give
99.8374 per cent, majority in favor of military
alliance with the U.S.S.R. and the raising of
an army of 10,000,000 by conscription to
achieve peace in the Pacific by liquidation of
aggressive capitalist nations. Appointment of
Marshal Zhukov, discovered to be a native
Jap in the same way as Rokossovsky was
found to be a Pole, as C.-in-C. and dictator.
Then, of course, the hanging of the indigenous
Communist politbureau in batches as disrup-
tionists and spies for the imperialists. That
is the inevitable finale of every Red victory,
but the local comrades haven’t realised it yet.
Falkinder, M.H.R.. who, with McColm,
M.H.R., talked of resigning his seat over
the Canberra Government’s war-service-
homes policy, and then, with McColm,
thought better of it, is to change from
Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Com-
merce to another job, not specified when
this was printed. R. W. Swartz (Lib.,
Darling Downs, and Deputy Government
Whip) succeeds Falkinder,
Queensland spragged the Common-
wealth-States wheat agreement because
the Wheat Board refused to pay freight
on inter-State shipments, and the thing
is back with the Wheat Board or the Gov-
ernment or somebody. Meantime the
International Wheat Agreement confer-
ence in London adjourned without doing
anything. Year by year this sort of thing
goes on, and will go on while Govern-
ments meddle with wheatgrowing and
-marketing. All the official planning and
stabilising of the past seven years have
done nothing but make confusion worse
confounded—and that applies to other
things besides wheat.
Because Melbourne wharves had 1800
wharfies for whom no work was available
one day last week, some bright soul sug-
gested that the surplus men (all getting
12s. a day “appearance-money”) should
be flown to Sydney and other ports where
wharf labor was short. Apart from the
fact that the men would have been strike-
breakers had they been flown to Sydney,
the thing would be too costly. A simpler
and far cheaper solution for ports where
there aren’t enough wharfies is to open
the wharves to casual workers at night
and weekends. But nothing like that
would be allowed by the Corns run-
ning the wharfies’ union. They want
ships kept idle as long as possible.
Minister for Territories Hasluck has
rightly refused to allow the setting-up of
a board in Papua and New Guinea for
the “compulsory acquisition” of local
products. The N.G. Legislative Council
consists mainly of Government nominees,
and it was natural for those birds to
propose such a board.
Eric Harrison, who was Minister in
London before he became Vice-President
of the Executive Council, told the
Canberra Reps the other night that he
found Australia House a “mausoleum”
and modernised it. He “improved” the
interior color scheme, got rid of the
“Pears’ Annuals” pictures, and so forth.
Whether or not he put a copy of James
Joyce’s Ulysses in the library wasn’t
mentioned.
All the elements of a border war be-
tween Victoria and N.S.W. seem to lie
in the potato-fields. A Victorian group of
merchants, formerly agents of the State’s
Potato Board, have formed a company
in Sydney to buy Victorian spuds and sell
’em in N.S.W. The N.S.W. Potato Board
seems to be a bit their way, because
N.S.W. is chronically short of spuds. The
Victorian board says most Vic. growers
“have pledged loyalty” to it, but how long
that will continue with the Victorian price
about £2 below what the company will
offer remains to be seen. The Vic. board
brought the thing on its own head by
dispensing with the agents and going into
the wholesale business on its own. The
fun will start when the Victorian board
tries to stop export of potatoes to N.S.W.
The Victorian Prices Commissioner
ordered a cut of 5 p.c. in the price of
motor-tyres and -tubes and other States
quickly followed the move. He said
it was because of a fall in the price
of raw rubber. With this came another
announcement that increased prices were
to be paid for hides, and this is expected
to increase the price of boots and shoes.
Walking or riding, you can’t win.
Adelaide “Advertiser” has been running
a series of articles, selected by “Labor”
M.H.R. Clyde Cameron, from Aneurin
Sevan’s testament, In Place of Fear.
From the opening par. (May 13):
the present makes Britain the classic
country in which to study the action and
inter-action of free democratic institutions
in their relationship with the transition from
capitalism to socialism.
There may have been some truth in this
when it was written; now it is nonsense.
No such study is possible in Britain these
days. For, to ensure that “free demo-
cratic institutions” are protected from
Communists, Socialists and Bevanites, an
opposite form of “transition” is being
practised.


' n\vh\st«x -t*
l VOR
\TOV3U\ST (CTWVT\e
MAPS ISSUED
i-irntr/
UUALKIE -
TALKIE
LICENCES
HIKING PERMITS
%
X
'op'
BLACKTRACKINC-
OEPA/trMEWK .
register tour
footprint
_
Ifr 1
(&$
LOsf
PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES.


ok!** 1
m
m
m
■ ■ i
P5O/52
Tender.
The Liquidators of Black Jack Gold
Mining Co. N.L. in Voluntary Liquidation
invite tenders for the purchase of plant
and stock situated at Charters Towers,
Queensland. The principal items being:
One 30 H.P. Boiler, Two Steam Com-
pressors, Winding Engines, Ten Head
Stampers, Treatment Plant, 116 H.P.
Suction Engine and sundry mining
machinery such as Stope Hammers, Jack
Hammer, Drifters, Tool Sharpeners; also
quantity of steel and wire rope, etc.
Inventory can be obtained from the Office
of Mr. L. T. CRAWFORD, 115 Queen
Street, Brisbane, and tenders are invited
either for the whole of the stock and
plant or individual lots. Tenders should
be in a sealed envelope addressed to the
Liquidators and should reach the above-
named office not later than the 31st May.
The lowest tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
Foresight in regard
to your Estate
What will happen to the Estate
*nat you have built up over a lifetime,
when your guiding hand is with-
drawn?
Consider the advantages assured
for his dependents by a man who
appoints Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as his Executor and Trustee.
The Company is specially consti-
tuted to carry out its duties. It has a
record of sixty-three years* service to
the community, whose confidence in
its business-like methods and its
courteous, sympathetic service has
made it the largest Trustee Company
in the Southern Hemisphere.
If you would have particulars of
the services offered by the Company,
ring B 0377, or write, and make an
appointment. A Senior Officer will be
pleased to give the information you
dosir6>
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE AGENT UNDER POWER 0»
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman j
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGiiT}
SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W, DUNLOP.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Directs.
A. Q. ALMYTAQE. Ma-aeer.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDEIf!
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH AND ORANCS
Business. Rollery. Etc.
NOT ENOUGH PRODUCTION OR PROFIT.
The impact of the 40-hour
week on Australia, a young and
industrially backward country,
has been devastating. Its effect
has been accentuated by the
general attitude of go-slow and
restrictive practices of the trade-
unions, and by the fact that the
war caused a six-year lag in the
production of civilian capital-
goods and consumer-goods.
Along with the 40-hour week
we have had the introduction of
the Welfare State, with its in-
creased range of “social-
security” benefits and its policy
of “full employment” regardless
of the nature of the employment.
There has been, as a general
result of the Welfare State, an
increase in the proportion of
income-receiving non-producers
and a fall in the proportion of
producers of essential materials
and services. Coupled with the
restrictive effect of the 40-hour
week and trade-union go-slow
policy, the general result has
been an all-round fall in the per
capita output of essentials
throughout the Commonwealth.
In some important items there
has been a decline in total pro-
ductivity notwithstanding the
large increase in population over
the past 13 years. Australia is
producing much less butter now
than it did in 1938-39. Total
meat output is very little higher
today than it was in the last
pre-war year. Wheat yields have
fluctuated, but this season one
State is verging on a wheat-
shortage. We have never re-
gained the pre-war level of
brick-production.
The wool clip, in spite of the
encouragingly high prices of the
post-J.O. period, has not in-
creased by more than 10 p.c.
since the war began.
With the opportunity open to
snatch many post-war overseas
markets, most Australian basic
industries have been ham-
strung by lack of coal - fuel
and electric power. Output of
black coal has increased by less
than 20 p.c. over the past 13
years. Iron and steel production
has increased by no more than
that in spite of a much-increased
plant capacity. Output of lead
has fallen, and spelter output is
only slightly higher. Cement
output has increased by no more
than 50 p.c., and is still in short
supply.
But, superimposed on a lag-
ging or shrinking output of most
basic materials, we have seen in
this country a greatly increased
production of secondary manu-
factures. Output of ice-cream
in 1938-39 was 4.2 million
gallons; in 1950-51 it was 17.2
million. Beer brewed increased
from 90 million gallons to 173
million gallons in the same
period. Refrigerators from
29,500 in a year to 202,100.
Paint from 2,115,000 gallons to
5,308,000 gallons. Lacquers in a
greater proportion still.
There has been a phenomenal
development in the manufacture
of electric motors, especially of
those designed for domestic
appliances. And the production
of electricity has more than
doubled in the past 13 years ;
as is well known, present out-
put, whether from hydroelectric
or thermal sources, is quite
inadequate to meet demand.
The picture should be clear
enough from the foregoing
statistics: High wages, “full
employment” and additional
leisure have created a consumer
demand that has tended to con-
sume the results of past saving
and construction, at the same
time leaving too little over out of
current production to restore
and extend manufacturing plant
and transport facilities, and
denying the rural industries
many essentials to their expan-
sion.
There has been little or no
new railroad construction over
the past 10 years, and rolling-
stock is daily becoming more
decrepit in every State. High-
ways are deteriorating. Ship-
ping services are inadequate, and
by no means as reliable as they
were before the war. There has
been almost a total absence of
city building activity for a
decade.
Though a high export income
until recently permitted the im-
port of a large variety of plant
and machinery, that period is
coming to an end. Even during
it the high cost of equipment
bought overseas offset, in many
cases, the apparently large im-
ports of industrial machinery
that were coming into the
country. And though most
public companies increased their
capital by substantial amounts
during the two years to the end
of 1951, the real additions that
were made to their productive
resources did not increase by a
proportionate amount.
This high cost of replacing
plant is another problem affect-
ing the productivity of Australia
and the solvency of private
enterprise. For several years the
increasing cost of plant-replace-
ment has made depreciation
provisions of previous years
wholly inadequate. Where this
has not been realised it has very
often happened that a company,
apparently making large profits
after allowing customary
amounts for depreciation, has
really been paying dividends out
of capital. The buying and sell-
ing of merchandise under price-
control during a period of in-
flation has meant very much the
same thing.
The Federal Government, if
it is going to take the wide view
that is necessary in our present
economic crisis, will have to
allow to industry additional tax-
free depreciation deductions on
plant bought before war-time
and post-war inflation ran riot.
Industry, with the availability of
overseas manufactured goods
shrinking because of the import
cuts, will have greater demands
made upon it, and it will need to
be nurtured. As a general thing
it will need to be allowed to
make more profit than it is doing
at the present time, and en-
couraged to plough-back much
of that profit.
As it is in Australia at present
there is little or no surplus pro-
duction above ordinary con-
sumer demands to represent real
savings.
There is not enough produc-
tion, not enough efficiency, not
enough profit, not enough sav-
ings, not enough investment.
It may be said that it is im-
possible for this country to
develop in proportion to its
growing population without
heavy borrowing overseas ; that,
at its maximum, our output of
essential goods will be too small
to provide the necessary capital-
goods surplus. That is very
likely so ; but both the overseas
and Australian investor will
need to see a great deal more
productivity per head in this
country before they started lend-
ing money on a large scale.
The repeated failure of Com-
monwealth loans in the Com-
monwealth is due more than
anything else to the low rate of
productivity. We have little or
no real surplus production, and
similarly small real savings.
Even from the financial point of
view it will probably be found
that what are represented in
savings-banks and the like as
“savings of the people” are,
when reduced to terms of pre-
war pounds, very little more
than what they were in 1939,
and, anyway, mostly lent by the
financial institutions to the Gov-
ernment already.
Freney Kimberley Oil
“Petro”: The Minister for
National Development has an-
nounced that an advance of
£67,000 will be made to the
Freney Kimberley Oil Co. for
the purpose of continuing its
search for petroleum in the
Kimberley and Carnarvon areas
of Western Australia. The
Federal Government will also
supply, on hire, a complete new
drilling-plant, capable of attain-
ing a depth of 10,000 ft. With
spares and accessories, this is
valued at about £200,000. The
drilling-crew will be provided
by the Government. In addition,
the Western Australian Govern-
ment will advance £67,000, while
the co. itself is expected to bring
up the total working capital to
£210,000 by adding another
£67,000, presumably from the
proceeds of the sale of part of a
new issue of 900,000 additional
shares at 6s. each.
This generous disposal of
public funds is being made on
the recommendation of the
Bureau of Mineral Resources.
By an agreement between the
two Governments and the co.,
the Governments will receive
between them half of any
profits, the remaining half being
the co.’s property.
In the circumstances it is
relevant to question whether the
Bureau of Mineral Resources can
be considered as a competent
authority to evaluate the oil
prospects of the area and
whether its staff has the experi-
ence to carry a well down to
10,000 ft, Up to the present the
bureau has spent a not-incon-
siderable part of its grant, which
now amounts to £611,000 a year,
on a search for oil on the main-
land and territories with no
tangible result except some
optimistic pronouncements as to
oil prospects and the siting of
locations for test-wells, with
which few experienced oil-
geologists would agree ; its drill-
ing performance may be judged
by the records of percentage
core-recovery.
The Kimberley area first
attracted attention as a possible
oil-producer by the discovery, in
1920, near the confluence of the
Ord and Negri Rivers, of an out-
crop of basaltic-rock whose
vesicles contained heavy black
oil. At the time such surface
indications of petroleum were
given much more importance
than modem experience allows
them. Between 1920 and 1930
about 10 wells were drilled to
depths varying from 1008 ft. to
3264 ft. ; small showings of oil
or bitumen were noted in some
of them, but no measurable pro-
duction was obtained.
Since 1940, following the
amendment of the Western Aus-
tralian Petroleum Act, several
major oil-companies made
examinations of the Kimberley
and adjacent areas of W.A., but
they have all withdrawn, follow-
ing unfavorable reports. The
Freney-Kimberley Co., however,
obtained the loan of a rotary
drilling-rig from the Common-
wealth Government and reached
a depth of 4271 ft. with it in
1943, when the Government
ordered suspension of opera-
tions. These were resumed in
1949, but the well was
abandoned owing to difficulties
encountered in reaming.
The site now proposed is prac-
tically an offset of this well. It
is located on Permian sediments
outcropping in a structure
known as the Nerrima Dome,
whose geographical position
may be defined by lat. 18deg.
30deg. south and long. 124 deg,
20deg, east


VACANT
POSSESSION
WENTWORTH FALLS
"Silvermere"
Blaxlcmd Road
THIS OFFERING PRESENTS A UNIQUE
OPPORTUNITY TO SECURE ONE OF THE
“SHOWPLACES OF THE MOUNTAINS.”
A HOME that would suit the MOST AESTHETIC TASTES com-
bining MODERN AND GRACIOUS LIVING, standing in SPACIOUS
GROUNDS and enjoying EXTENSIVE VIEWS from MT. KURRA-
JONG to BOTANY BAY,
Accommodation CONSISTS OF THREE WINGS comprising 5 bed-
rooms, 2 bathrooms, toilet, loungeroom, diningroom, den, verandah,
kitchen, servery, plus staff quarters or sittingroom, 2 bedrooms, and
outside man’s room, bathroom, toilet, H.W.S., Septic, garages.
Most suitable for Gentleman’s Residence, Scholastic Organisations,
Convalescent Home, Private Hotels, Clubs.
Land approx. 4 acres. Torrens.
INSPECTIONS THROUGH AUCTIONEERS.
Conjunction Agent:
W. J. COBLEY, ESQ.,
LEURA—TEL. LEURA J 1015.
Auction Sale Date, Tuesday, 27th May, 1952.
L. J. HOOKER LIMITED
98 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BW 8401.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELSIE MARGARET WALES late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that VAUGHAN
WALES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1711 of 1952 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking for
the exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899-1951 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 28th July 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ALAN EDWARD BARNES.
Solicitor, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGH AN. Registrar.
as
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf hiqh-priced Imported
machines at only a trac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary OupU
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built mtittlj In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
MAKE FULL USE
UF A.N.Z. BANK
SERVICES
When you open your A.N.Z. Bank cheque
book to save time and inconvenience in
making business or personal payments
you know that your Bank will handle
every transaction efficiently. And at the
same time you are reminded that you may
make full use of all the other useful and
friendly services which A.N.Z. Bank has
developed for its customers.
a*n*z
* * *
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Established 1835
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout
Australia and New Zealand, in Fiji and in
London. Agents in all parts of the world.
PROWESS
o'*
oV
*0
fit
9*o
0*
P
s* c
• Every year a bonus year
• Prompt settlement of claims
All classes of Assurances transacted
For service and satisfaction effect all your
assurances through the
STRA L I A N
_ / ♦ -A——
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITO
HUIITER. AND BUC-H STREET? SYDNEY.
lacorsoiated fl> QuatulanJ, 09**
g>
a
BEWARE !
oym cum - m
m
mm
icjgj
iZ
7s
'CSSs
wear the
LIMA
BELT
Take heed of the "Dan-
ger Curve" of your
abdominal wall caused by long
hours spent SITTING —at the
wheel or in your office. Although
seats in modern cars are very
comfortable, the position of the
body is unhealthy, as there is a
downward pressure in the lower
part of the abdomen. This fre-
quently leads to stomach dis-
orders, backache, and may result
in serious illness. The support-
ing action of the Linia Belt,
made from a patented woven
Tricot, is therefore a great bene-
fit to motorists. The Linia
Method is world wide and
recommended by the highest
medical authorities.
Write to-day for the "Danger Curve" booklet and price list.
LINiA BELTS are sold in Australia ONLY by
OF PARIS PTY. LTD.
«4 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l 'Phone: FA 8357
Open Saturday Mornings
Branches throughout the British Isles, and the Continent.
Sales-tax revenue is going to
fall considerably short of esti-
mates during the financial year
which will close on June 30.
Up to April (10 months) revenue
under this head was £77.8 mil-
lion, with only two months to
go; and the estimate for the
year was £ll7 million. Customs
revenue will probably more than
make up the difference, though
in the next financial year a cut
in this form of revenue is bound
to occur. Up to April income-
tax revenue had only got about
half-way to its estimate of £554
million; but it is well known
that May and June are by far
the most fruitful months for the
income-tax collector. When it
is understood that during these
two months £264 million (if
estimates are correct) will be
handed to the income-tax
department mainly by “capital-
ist” and investor types of tax-
payers it may be realised why
the sharemarket has been re-
ceiving so little support from
these sources lately. It is prob-
able, however, that liquidation
of shareholdings, where thought
necessary, to meet taxation
assessments has already
occurred.
* * * *
Commonwealth defence spend-
ing is well below estimates.
During the 10 months to April
30 £118.7 million had been spent
out of an estimate of £181.7
million for the year. For the
month of April outgo on defence
was £14.9 million. The diffi-
culty of obtaining the manpower
and materials in present eco-
nomic circumstances is one
reason for the lightened defence
charges.
* * # *
The wool cheque for 1951-52
looks like finishing about 15 p.c.
above the figure for 1949-50,
and about half the total for
1950-51. For the 10 months to
April 30 proceeds were £263,5
million —53.6 p.c. less than the
corresponding figure (£568.4
million) for the preceding season,
when the total wool cheque was
£636 million. The price of
greasy wool in March was 58d. a
pound, the lowest price since
October, 1949. However, there
was a slight recovery in April,
and a further one last week.
It is just a little over a year since
the price of wool started to crack.
* * * *
Australia had a debit balance
of overseas current-account
payments for the first half
of 1951-52 amounting to
£316 million. For the entire
1950-51 financial year there
was a surplus of £9l mil-
lion. During the past few
weeks there has been a small
increase in the Commonwealth
Bank’s holding of gold and
balances abroad; on May 7 the
holding was £314.8 million, com-
pared with £308.5 million at the
lowest point in March this year.
According to Commonwealth
Bank computations, the index
representing the average price of
imports into Australia rose from
389 in March, 1951, to 425 in
December last. The index repre-
senting average export prices
during the same period fell from
876 to 477, and in March this
year it was down to 419. Some
reduction has occurred in a few
import prices in 1952 —news-
print for one —but the general
trend is still for our import costs
to rise and our income to stay
somewhere around its reduced
level.
* * * *
Though, since balance-day,
there have been reductions in
the staff of the Orange (N.S.W.)
refrigerator and washing-
machine factory, during the year
to December 31 last profits of
Email, Ltd. (perhaps better
known as “Emmco”), and its
subsidiaries were a record, and
the dividend of the parent was
maintained at p.c. A pre-
liminary announcement of the
parent’s profits also states that
before results were arrived at
£400,000 (up £100,000) was
placed to stock-and-plant de-
preciation contingency reserve.
The Email organisation has
strongly entrenched itself finan-
cially over the past few years,
and profits have been estimated
on a conservative basis. That
should be of considerable help
during the present period of
“buyer-resistance.” At 12s. 6d.
each the ss. shares of Email
yield 5 p.c. on the basis of the
present div.
* * * *
Associated Leather “new”
shares, pointed out here when
the lights were available at
about 4s. 6d., have risen to
18s., 10s.-paid—which repre-
sents an increase of 3s. 6d. a
share.
* * * *
The restriction of imports
should create a greater demand
for the products of R. B. Davies
Industries, Ltd., the largest
builders’-hardware concern in the
Commonwealth. It is a highly
efficient, up-to-date enterprise,
and its products have been sold
extensively outside Australia. A
joint venture with the Yorkshire
Copper Co. is in the process of
completion; a subsidiary con-
trolled by both concerns will
eventually make brass capillary
fittings for water, gas and
refrigeration trades in the
Commonwealth. R. B. Davies
shares at 325. give an immediate
yield of 5 p.c. The scrip is
tightly held.
* H* * *
In Melbourne, John Mcllwraith
Industries 10s. ords. have held
their position in the slumping
sharemarket better than most
stocks. At their highest point
they have been around 265. Last
week they changed hands at
21s. 3d. In the 1950-51 term the
co. paid a 12 \ p.c. div. out of
profits shown at 19.4 p.c. on
capital. The business is old-
established, dealing principally
in plumbers’ supplies, and at last
balance-day the directors re-
ported a very full order-book.
Yield at the current market is
6 p.c. Interim div. has been
maintained at p.c.
* * * *
Masonite Corporation £1 ords.
at around 50s. are down heavily,
even on recent quotations. The
lowest price during March this
year was 555., and the highest in
1951 83s. No new share-issue
has been made meanwhile,
though one is contemplated. The
co. has paid 12£ p.c. for the
past four years, and though dis-
closed profits for 1950-51 only
just covered the distribution it
was a year that had been
severely affected by price-control
anomalies, which were later
straightened out to some extent.
There are only 287,500 £1 ords.
issued by Masonite and 100,000
2s. 6d. deferreds, making paid
capital £300,000. It is an ex-
tremely low capitalisation for a
big and highly efficient industry,
though the deferred shareholders
are entitled to half the profits
after the ords. get 7 p.c,
* * * *
The projected revision of the
method of assessing Federal land
tax will relieve the minds of
many people who were recently
confronted with staggering assess-
ments following the new valua-
tions issued by various V.G.
departments. These new values
were up, on an average, about
75 p.c. The exemption goes up
from £5OOO to £8750, and the
super-tax of 20 p.c. on properties
valued at over £20,000 has been
abolished. (This was a war-time
revenue-raising innovation that
threatened to become per-
manent.) The amendment of the
law will be of particular value to
companies holding large areas of
land and extensive city property,
including pastoral concerns,
banks, retailers and breweries.
Assessments on the old basis
are now being sent out accom-
panied by a letter giving tax
due according to the new legisla-
tion.
* * * *
Burns Philp’s declared profit
for the year to March 31 was
£332,734, equal to 14 p.c. on
average capital, compared with
15.8 p.c. last year. A new issue
of 1,000,000 shares has made
subscribed capital £3,000,000,
with £2,733,996 paid up at
balance-day. Depreciation pro-
vision this year is £27,243 lower
at £375,044. The dividend re-
mains unchanged at 12£ p.c. The
co. reports that the volume of
merchandise sales was “very
satisfactory,” but controlled
profit-margins on many lines
were inadequate to cover higher
costs. The chain-store organisa-
tion known as Penneys, includ-
ing its premises, has been trans-
ferred to a subsidiary, the
£2,000,000 capital of which is
retained by Burns Philp. B.P.
old shares at 645. return 4 p.c.
on a 12y p.c. div. basis, and the
net tangible backing is excep-
tional when the co.’s inner
reserves are considered.


Society
AND IT'S FRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
Irving”: Nick toils like a truly noble
Greek in every good cause, and his cafe
is the Mulgaville Mecca ; the town re-
joiced in the arrival of his Australian-born
son, and when he jumped off the water-
wagon to wet the baby’s head, only
Psmythe, the pukka gent, who carried on
his stock-and-station agency on the lines
/x\om
IN 'lk#®
' J
s 't>
"I wouldn't pay to see ’er— she's bin married only four times”
of an English estate manager, drank aloof.
Nick noticed the formal gentleman, and,
concluding that his abstention from the
general wassail derived from ignorance
of the circumstances, staggered over and
buttonholed him: “Last night my wife
she have beautiful babby boy. Plis allow
me to congratulate you! ”
“Willie Millie”: The making today of
my cousin’s will, which appoints me her
executor, reminded me that when my
father’s will was read it was thought odd
that he had appointed his brother his
executor and not me, his lawyer-son. But
Dad, like a good citizen, had made his
will immediately after his marriage. His
brother died soon after Dad, having
appointed his wife executrix. The wife
died, having appointed her daughter
executrix. The daughter died, having
appointed her younger sister execu-
trix. The younger sister was today’s
testatrix, appointing me her executor;
and as the office of executor devolves
upon the executor of the executor, so
long as the chain remains unbroken, I
will probably be my father’s executor
after all. Yes, I know that my cousin
has still to die ; but I was just thinking.
* * * *
“Northerner”: Darwin Children’s
Court makes the punishment fit the
child: two young lads, caught breaking-
and-entering, were not only fined heavily,
but denied picture-shows, one for a
year, the other for six months. Their
young friends shout after them: “Yah,
baby; can’t go to the flicks!” Also,
“Crime don’t pay! ” Which may, as
many hope, make them better citizens
than jail or homilies would.
* * * *
“Lucky”: Ferret, wireless-operator
flight-sergeant in my R.A.A.F. bomber
unit, had an elongated nose and backset
eyes, the result, we imagined, of peering
through pre-dawn mists at whippet-trials
and at billiard-balls through the mists of
Yorkshire pool-rooms. Convinced that
Bomber Command was composed of
fifth-columnists, he added a cargo
of bricks to the, in his opinion,
meagre issue of bombs, jettisoning
them with both lurid and seditious
invective directed at both Hun and
Bomber Command. One night he
forgot that the bomb-doors of a Halifax
are set half on the floor and half in the
walls, and almost hurled himself out with
a batch of Irish confetti. He clutched
frantically at a gadget known as a
“pedestal” in well-appointed civvy bath-
rooms, but as an “elsan” on R.A.F. craft.
The Halifax banked suddenly, the “elsan”
came loose, and Ferret and the gadget
rolled back against the open bomb-door.
Ferret hung over Berlin for a sickening
second; then recovered; but the “elsan”
plummeted into the blackness, doubtless
to provide a malodorous puzzle for some
Jerry Intelligencer on the lookout for
secret weapons.
* + * «
“Clooter”; Occupational hazards are a
common feature of modern industrial life,
but for an uncommon occupa-
tional hazard? A complaint was received
from a city shop conducting a mixed
pawnbroking and second-hand business
that the postman, instead of walking in
and putting the mail on the counter, tied
it with string and heaved it through the
door as he passed. Called upon to
explain, the postie said, “Well, there’s no
mail-box.” “Few shops,” he was told,
“have mail-boxes, since most of them are
open when the rfiail is delivered. You
should go in and put the mail on the
counter.” The postie was silent a
moment, then in a burst of confession it
came. “Well, I used to do that. But
every dam’ time I went into the place
the woman sold me something.”
tt , _ * ... * * *
Macquarie : Aunts and uncles seek-
ing vicarious childhood presented my
four-year-old nephew with a large stock
“ Auntie—what Was that when it Was quite Well?”
of fireworks just before last Empire Day.
No miser gloated over gems more than
that child over his crackers; they be-
came skittles, columns of soldiers, or just
pretty things to be formed into patterns.
On the great night, the bonfire lit, oblig-
ing aunts and uncles stood ready and
willing to “let some off for you,” but
Bobby didn’t want ’em let off. His idea
was that if they were let off he wouldn’t
have ’em any more. Relatives tried to
demonstrate. He yelled blue-murder.
His young sister gave hers up to martyr-
dom, but his podgy little hand stayed
clamped on the neck of the big brown-
paper bag. The fireworks are still in it.
Now, with Empire Night upon us again,
a problem faces me: Would it look too
barefaced to take crackers out and “let
’em off for the kids,” or must they be
handed over, in the traditional manner —'
to join the tattered veterans in the paper
bag?
* * * *
“Alsace”: Who was Philgarlic, the
superman of Father’s day? When we
kids found anything too difficult. Father
would say sarcastically, “Can’t do it, eh?
Just leave it to old Philgarlic ; he can do
anything.”
* * * *
“Ymar”: Conversation-lollies are
making a comeback as “Wise Cracks,”
but conversation, even in lollies, is going
the way of political oratory. Even by
substituting letters for words —“U O me
a X”—less can be printed on these tinier
ones.
* * * *
“Clooter”: My friend Jones has now
reached a stage in his passage through
life which seems to bear out the theory
of predestination. His father was a civil
servant, Jones went from school into
Government service, where, in due course,
he became an inspecting officer and
subsequently a supervising officer (grade
two). Came the war and Jones’s status
was translated to deputy-divisional con-
troller of sub-district so-and-so. Came
the peace and Jones was presently acting
(temporary with preference for perman-
ency) officer-in-charge of whatever
function it was. All this has been accom-
panied by changes in Jones’s spoken and
written vocabulary. Words and phrases
like increment, semi-finalisation, deodoris-
ation, rehabilitary constructiveness, de-
restriction of previously restricted areas,
consideration prior to submission for im-
plementation, and so forth, flowed from
tongue and pen. I hadn’t seen Jones
for some years. The other day I —er —
consulted a mutual acquaintance as to the
condition of the subject’s physical struc-
ture and mental functioning capacity,
only to learn that the poor devil had
broken down. However, I am assured
that he will recover because he is under-
going hospitalisation. He has earned it.
* * * ♦
“Macnell”: I’m all with the London
“Economist’s” view (B. 14/5/’52) that,
though Russia may be able to stock
Britain’s pond with more steel fish than
Hitler could, they won’t be as efficient.
There is no branch of a navy—except,
perhaps, the air-arm—in which the human
element is so important as in sub-
mersibles. Apart from the rigid, ex-
perienced discipline required to operate
safely and efficiently the peculiarly
complex mechanical gizzards of a sub,
there must be that indefinable mess-
deck camaraderie, the instilled belief in
reliance on your mate’s doing his job
properly. And instilled not only from a
sense of self-preservation. It has some-
thing to do with that hackneyed, glorious
old word, tradition. The Russian Navy’s
submarine branch has about as much
tradition as it has battle-experience in
torpedoing an escorted ship and evading
the holocaust escorts will immediately
unleash. Most of Britain’s sub.-hunters
of War II are still young men. They
served an austere apprenticeship in the
job ; and you can bet your bilges that
the Old Firm has invented for them,
albeit without fanfare of publicity, some
‘pretty nifty new arrangements in the way
of sub-surface welcomes.
* * * *
“Golf Associate”: If “Bo” seeks
smoking-room atmosphere in a golf-club
(B. 23/4/’52), as suggested by “Stable-
ford” (B, 30/4/’52), he will find it at
a club not far from Sydney, but at the
hazard of unpopularity among its associ-
ates. This club is convenient for a quick
one when pubs are shut or short, and so
affable are the members, and so obliging
the steward, that visitors threaten the
comfort and thirst of members. The
committee has imposed an attendance-
fee, and associates who would bring
mother-in-laws or non-golfing house-
guests along, to meet their partners after
the round over a cup of tea consider this
initial outlay a club-handicap that should
lapse on non-competition week-days.
What do other associates think? Does
Mrs. Stableford belong to a golf-club?
* * * ♦
“Exdig”: According to the liberal habit
of the Commonwealth Defence Depart-
ment, that tank-commander who lost his
wig “as a result of enemy action” (B.
30/4/’52) would have been entitled to
compensation. Probably the biggest bill
for losses was that for the total loss of
the Neuve Eglise dump when the Germans
marched through in 1918. Early in that
year all ranks were ordered, in effect,
to strip to plain battle-dress, and to send
all surplus possessions to the dump. Some
extraordinary claims were met, but the
army jibbed at one for two banjos and
a steel guitar. The injustice was referred
to W. M. Hughes, and again rejected, the
army getting its satirist to reply; “It is
felt that if this claim is accepted, officers
may be encouraged to bring their grand-
pianos on active service, a further encum-
brance to Army transport. Such articles
are not regarded as essential to the duties
of a soldier in the field,”
THE HOUSE-GUEST.
“The new N. S. Wales Premier, J. J. Cahill, said
the State Government had no intention of interfering
with the 40-hour Week. The Government believed in
it, he said.”
We have a little visitor
Staying in our home;
We can’t say she’s imposing, for
She didn’t want to come;
But Jim McGirr said, “What a shame!
She must come in and stay! ”
Since when nobody has been game
To send the waif away.
There’s none so vile as to suggest
That she should pay her board;
To say such things about a guest
Is naturally. abhorred;
Of course, we’ve loved to have her ’round
The past five years or so,
But wish some method might be found
Of telling her to go.
You’ll find her down behind the barn
Enlightening the boys,
Or listening to a quiet yarn
Away from factory-noise,
Or trying-on the silks and furs
The men take from their wives
Because they think they should be hers
For brightening their lives.
In speaking of a lady, it
May hardly.be polite—
But this one has, we must admit,
A Irearty appetite;
It takes the funds of millionaires
To fill her up at table;
In fact, it’s_ trebled all the fares
At Old Jim’s livery-stable.
But though he couldn’t make ends meet
Or even pay the rent
He didn’t kick her in the street —
’Twas Jim McGirr who went;
He nobly went away to sea
And Idft us to our fate,
Which, under Cahill, may easily be
A somewhat similar state.
For Cahill is kindly, Cahill is good,
He’s charitable and human,
He’s not so wicked or so crude
As to insult a woman;
He d rather see the old home brought
To ruin and laid waste
Than do a deed that might be thought
To savor of bad taste.
Meanwhile, our small house-guest stays on.
We’d like to see her dragged
Before a court and sat-upon;
We’d like to see her “vagged”;
But no one cares to seem too rough
On “Labor’s” simple pleasure
In making such a lady of
A lady of such leisure.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Glen”: We are used to the yarns
about girl-friends spending the night with
prisoners in Hobart’s historic old jail, and
about prisoners meeting their girl-friends
outside; but we can still smile over the
gent, with the Christmas spirit (both sorts)
who forced an entry to play Santa Claus
to his pal—now he’s going to jail, for
going to jail.
* * * *
“Woody”: “If they touch a woman
they are shot,” Count Ciano says in his
diary of French prisoners-of-war in
Germany. But there were a lot of reason-
ably-contented Frenchmen alive op V.E.
day. Camp crime-sheets gave the im-
pression that Section 92 of German
Orders dealt only with Frenchmen ; under
this section they were sentenced to from
18 months to 4\ years in prison for
dealing with German women. We pre-
sumed the punishment had a ratio to the
scale of shame inflicted upon Germany:
German objections were not moral, but
racial. Some of us British were piqued
“I'll show you who’s the best man!”
that our countrymen were so seldom
mentioned in these dispatches. Certainly
the French, enjoying half-freedom, had
greater opportunity. Perhaps they were
also more fitted by temperament to offend
under Section 92, or maybe German
women preferred Frenchmen ; anyway,
the poilu almost monopolised the field
of discovered illicit love in captivity. One
can only conjecture how cordial was the
understanding between Frenchmen and
other women nationals on the loose in
Germany—in this the Germans* showed
no interest unless the parties were kept
late for work or temporarily incapacitated.
* * * *
“L.S.M.”; An airman who used to be
at Laverton (Vic.) loved the “bombs”
ignored *by the car-proud ; he regularly
traded one “bomb” for another, always
replacing the old engine with his almost-
new, and extremely powerful, Wolseley
engine—wherefor owners of gleaming,
late-model cars travelling frequently over
the Geelong, road were chagrined to find
ancient “bombs” flying past them which,
even in their distant youth, should never
have been a match for the “little extra
bit” of the new models.
* * * *
“Spoke”: Melbourne “Age” sniffed at
Melbourne P.O. for delivering an “Age”
letter to a suburban newsagent on the day
before the date-stamp. Viewing a photo-
graph of the envelope, an astonished Post
Office said, “It doesn’t happen once in
a hundred years!” Nor does it. The
faulty date-stamp was in the “Age”
office.
* * * *
“Macnell”: The recent King’s Cup,
rowed on the Nepean (N.S.W.), was, one
accepts, pulled in the best sporting spirit.
I remember one race pulled between rival
cutters of cruisers of the Grey Funnel
Line which was not so distinguished. For
weeks each ship had been boasting of its
emitter’s prowess, backed-up by deposits
with the ships’ bookies, and when the
squadron dropped pick in Tassie’s Storm
Bay excitement was peaked. The night
before the day, volunteers rubbed and
scraped at each 32ft. cutter’s hull, with
the crews supervising in lordly exemption,
till the finish on the strakes made glass
look like sharkskin. No notice was taken
of a couple of visitors from the rival
ship’s company aboard. Porridge was
the standard breakfast in those wintry
days. Next morning after breakfast our
cutter’s crew, 12 men strong and true,
were clustered outside the heads in pos-
tures pathetic, none of them game to
leave the porcelain thrones for a minute.
Those visitors must have denuded their
sick-bay of Number Nines. But our doc.
had an even stronger antidote, and the
cutter’s crew, albeit weak and white-
gilled, were on their thwarts in time.
Yes, we won,
“Prof.”: If “Peter Simple” gnashes his
teeth over misuses of our language (B.
23/4/’52), we may be excused the gentle
raising of the eyebrow at his twice using
“good English.” If speech or writing does
not conform with the “rules of English”
and “models of English” it is not English,
good or otherwise. Reference to “slowed
up” and “slowed down” brings to mind a
few more English ups and downs: The
woodman cuts a tree down, then cuts it
up ; gangsters were shot down until
the time of the sub-machine-gun, after
which they were generally shot up; we
tell children to drink up a palatable
beverage but to drink down a nasty medi-
cine ; participants in a boisterous party
may need to break it down, or someone
may appear and break it up; and in
school the teacher who tells the pupil to
sit down would be annoyed if they did
not sit up.
* * * *
“Brolga”: One result of the Liquor
Commission is that a stranger can some-
times get a bottle of beer at a pub ; an-
other may be a sharp slump in sugar-
bags. I haven’t been competing with
Peter and George for two years, having
“ That's more than Water she’s coaxing him home with.
learned that nightclub proprietors are
extremely reluctant to peel-off one or two
notes from their huge rolls to pay the
carter who carts the liquor. But I still
get occasional messages to meet various
private citizens at city corners at precise
hours with my truck. Recently, following
pre-Commission procedure, I turned up
with sugar-bags in response to a vague
message from a Greek to pick up some
parcels for his daughter’s wedding. The
publican shuddered when he saw the bags.
“Get suitcases, cartons, boxes, anything
you like except sugar-bags,” he
squealed. “D’ you think I want a mention
at the Commission?”
* * * *
“Diogenes”: “Sense of false security,”
says “Peter Simple” (B. 23/4/’52), should
be “False sense of security.” Nonsense.
The first means a knowledge of the false-
ness of the security. The second means
that there is a lack of knowledge as to
security. Or, (1) you know your refuge
is insecure, (2) you imagine your refuge
is secure.
* * * *
“Emel”; A Bendigo tomato-sauce firm
is a welcome exception to the beer-,
sauce-, pickle-, paste- and jam-bottle
barons who, as “8.A.K.” (B. 9/4/’52)
feelingly observes, label bottles as their
property, but do nothing or offer nothing
towards reclamation. The Bendigo firm
puts a sticker on each of its bottles:
“Refund 2d. bottle.”
* * *
“Boro-Belle”: One of Sydney’s old
steam locos, which used to pull the steam-
trams 70 years ago, has finished a useful
career at Mackay, where it helped to build
the harbor. Using wood as fuel, it started
in 1906 to haul metal for the Pioneer
River retaining-walls. These proved a
costly failure, as the river did not deepen,
so an outer harbor was commenced and
the old loco., converted to coal and given
a new boiler, was recommissioned to
haul slabs of rock from the Mount Basset
quarry to the ocean’s edge, 2\ miles
away, where travelling cranes placed the
stone in position. The old engine was
to have been sold to a Sydney firm as
scrap, but there’s a move afoot to preserve
it as an historical relic.
* * * *
“Doric”; “Hamer” (B. 7/5/’52) is not
correct in naming Bryant House, Pitt-
street, after “the head of the Union
Trustee Co.” Built by the City Mutual
Life, it was named after the late G. E.
Bryant, then chairman of directors of that
society.
* * * *
“Emjai”: A notice hanging over a
bar in a Victorian country town reads;
“The Associated Banks have agreed: Not
to sell beer. The Licensed Victuallers
have agreed: Not to cash cheques.” An-
other bush publican has it: “The slate’s
broke.” Recently a Melbourne suburban
tradesman put up the notice: “Credit
will only be given to people of 80 years
and over, and then only when accom-
panied by their parents.” And when the
bank-manager writes: “Owing to the
national economic situation and the neces-
sity for restriction of credit, and as the
accommodation you seek does not con-
form to, Central Bank advance policy, we
regret....” the idea begins to percolate
that a lot of people are using a lot of
circumstances to say “No Tick.”
*** . *
“Macnell”: If ad.-writers for the
Navy’s recruiting campaign want to know
what to appeal to—dough or guts—let
them interview some of the 150 national-
service trainees who.lately returned in a
frigate and two corvettes from New
Zealand. In the Tasman'the little ships
ran into winds up to 80 m.p.h., the frigate
had one of her whalers smashed over the
side, and all ships were at one stage hove-
to under the force of the' storm. The
corvettes, which must have been washed-
over like a half-tide rock, had to run
down to Hobart instead of Westernport
(Vic.), with their engineers scraping the
bottom of the oil-barrel. I’ve known
Norwegian fishermen to be sick in
Atlantic-convoy corvettes. If those Aus-
tralian youngsters still like the sea the
ad.-writers can forget their appeals of
high pay and secure conditions. In the
opinion of most serving officers. that
appeal is spurious, anyway.
* * * *
“Zake”: I, too, used to beef out, in
my juvenile baritone-soprano, that difty
on the old man’s trilbies (B. 14/5/’52);
our version differed slightly:
Me an’ me brother from the age of four
Up to eleven we could sleep an’ snore
Nice an’ cosy in a box of straw
In the hobnailed boots that me old man
wore.
I always took the song to be a tribute
to the size of the violin-cases the old
man plodded around in.
* * * *
“Eve”: I struck a couple of new wall-
decorations this week. On a Darlinghurst
wall was this message: “Butter a bob a
lb., milk four bob a pint. For these
bargains, see Lopsided Joe.” The other
was in York-street. Instead of vague
religious instructions to “Pray more” or
“Seek the Light,” there was this: “Feed
More Cats.” I bet that wasn’t written
by a rat.
“Percy Pawnticket”: When I boarded a
very ancient tramcar the other day I
thought I could date the car by its high
steps ; I suggested to the conductor that it
was born in 1903. He took an interest,
went to inspect a date he said was stamped
somewhere on the car, and came back to
tell me I was wrong. The car was dated
1899. Fifty-three years on the road —
that’s a long innings for any car!
* * * *
“M’Lou”: Hamilton Fyfe guarantees
the story of worried English relatives who
read a Queensland item, “Bishop Blank
discovered dead on shore,” cabled Queens-
land, and were relieved to find him still
alive. The report was traced to a news-
agency sub-editor who had been told to
delete all mention of sea-serpents, as they
were being overdone. Like a good sub-
editor he had dealt faithfully with the
report, “Bishop Blank discovered dead
sea-serpent on shore.”
* * * *
“Billjo”; At one of his earlier appoint-
ments, our newly-appointed clergyman
said, he was strolling to chapel when he
noticed lads smoking; so he preached
upon the matter, suggesting that if they
must have something to suck, they might
ask their mothers for the baby’s dummy.
Next night, attending a meeting on
church business in a parishioner’s dining-
room, he was ushered to a table round
which a dozen men sucked baby-dummies
—a gesture which broke a lot of ice for
the new" parson.
THE IRRESISTIBLE
«Bob Come home, love. Mum gone. Your garden
slipping. Milly.”— Agony ad.
He might have had words, quite a few,
With his Milly, as most of us do.
(Married life it adds spice to,
She’s mostly so nice to
You afterwards—isn’t that true)?
But, a peace-loving sort of a bloke.
When the Battle-Axe put in her spoke,
And their views had collided
He forthwith decided
Twas time that he went “into smoke.
For a time, as you’ve doubtless inferred —
And the inference isn’t absurd —
To hell she consigned him,
Nor hastened to find him ;
But, getting no penitent word,
With anxieties Mil was beset.
There was one thing she couldn’t forget:
She’d been on a good wicket,
For as a meal-ticket
Her Robert had been a safe bet.
So she bundled the Battle-Axe off,
Then found it convenient to doff
Her air of resentment,
In fact, at relentment
No longer she faintly could scoff.
Perforce she co-opted the Press.
Reproaches she skipped, as you’d guess.
Her cue was to lure him,
Assure him, secure him,
And in this she used some finesse.
She might with advantage have dwelt
On how frightfully lonely she felt.
That appeal’s celebrated
As one calculated
The toughest male ticker to melt.
But she had one far stronger than that,
One she knew that he must nibble at.
For what gardener hearing
His garden was nearing
Disaster would simply sit pat?
The thought that his favorite shrubs
Might be badly infested with grubs
Must to him be so awful
That back to his lawful
He’d speed, as a lion to its cubs.
Why! Hjs roses and caulies and peas
Might be getting some fatal disease!
Be greeted with kisses,
Perhaps, by his missus?
Ow, yair, but what’s that beside these!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Toryour own gain
and the good of Victoria..
Invest your money in
POWER
FOR PROGRESS!
Building for a better future for all Victoria, your State
Electricity Commission is hard at work on great power
and fuel projects which are essential for expansion of the
State s industries and particularly for increased productivity
of its farms. For the good of the State, these vital devel-
opments should go forward with all speed, but the pace
of construction now is set by finance, and this must be
subscribed by the people of Victoria.
That is why you are invited to invest today in the Com-
mission s new loan to provide more capital which is urgently
needed. A simple transfer of your savings, and immediately
your money begins to earn the maximum interest rate of
£4/2/6 per year on every £lOO invested. This is more than
double the interest on bank deposits. The safety of your
investment will be gilt-edged because the Government of
Victoria and the Commission both guarantee payment of
your interest each half-year and repayment of your securities
in full at maturity. From every point of view, there is no
sounder, more profitable place for the savings of patriotic
citizens and the funds of public-spirited institutions.
Now open- the gilt edged
SEG
41 1
interest
LOAN
Apply now at any Commonwealth Bank, National Bank,
Stockbroker or State Electricity Commission Office.
3539
■re*
m
frusaber
m
m
V
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
deep, dark, slumbering depths of
brown. Strewn about, for seats,
1 were the deserted masses of rock
and boulder; above, the clear
vivid blue sky and, on this day,
showing over the edge and as if
half-asleep, the cut-off head of
some old dreary-looking draught
with a long white blaze right
down to his Jewish-looking
proboscis, who was doomed,
some day, to topple over the
edge and break his neck.
At the bottom of the quarry,
on the left, was the deep blue
pool for swimming in and for
bathing bloody noses and eyes
puffed up in the fray.
Tom’s old man and Lund
needed some of that water ; they
punched themselves silly; and
as the cheers that encouraged
each blow rang out, the perfect
acoustic properties of the place
took up the echoes of cheers and
blows and hurled them from
wall to wall without frittering
them away on waste and distant
air.
The blood flowed, the beer
flowed, and with both men near
blinded, heavy of arm, tired of
muscle and leaden of foot, each
groping about in the darkness
of their fury, unwilling to give
in, a fight to a finish, the happy
onlookers, in honor of the brave
and self-sacrificing struggle the
men had put up, finally took the
matter into their own hands and
declared it a draw; at which
both gladiators groped to find
each other’s hand, stumbled on
it, shook, became fast friends
ever after and, when it was all
over, some person unknown
made off with the corrugated-
iron.
A FTER that, contests came
F* in quick succession, which
put the seal on the Quarry. The
next fight was between Ted and
Jim Skein (fifteen rounds) in
settlement of an affair wherein
Jim had borrowed (unknown to
Ted) Ted’s brand-new tan boots
and before putting them back
under Ted’s bed had gone into
the ankle-deep bail to milk in
them and got mud and cowdung
ail over them.
Then there was the fight be-
tween George Culverhouse and
Fred Bishop in regard to what
George Culverhouse had said
about Bessie Arlington at the
rabbit-trappers’ ball, and other
fights that settled various and
varied disputes, accusations, lies
and truths of a nettlesome
district.
It got that way in the end that
the Quarry became indelibly
woven into the life and affairs
of the people ; and down at the
pub, when men started to quarrel
and were about to take their
coats off, some voice would say
something like “Now then, the
Quarry’s the right and proper
place for a fight!” and each
time a fight was arranged notice
of it would be pinned up on the
old notice-board in the bar:
The Quarry : 15 Rounds
Alex. Healy v. Bob Kite,
For calling him a blankard.
Keg. Bring own pannikin.
Alongside such important an-
nouncements as:
Dance, Jack’s Cowshed,
Saturday, April 4.
Or:
Lost, Stolen or Strayed,
One Wife, 35 about, fair.
standing sft. 4in. Branded
with mole on left hip.
Anyone finding, please shoot
her. Reward.
And so here was young Tom
growing up with all this fine
background as a guiding star ;
and he promoted and trans-
ferred all school fights to the
Quarry—Frogs Williams against
Cowdung Coffee, for stealing
possums out of Frogs’s snares ;
Grubs Sanders versus Carl
Schroeder, for putting six bull-
ants down his neck; Slinker
Wilde’s royal battle with Puffer
Adams, after Puffer had said
Slinker’s mother was friendly
with two Chinamen, and other
such incidents ; after which all
the fighters, victors and losers
alike, shook hands and became
the best of friends again, taking
their respective places among the
manly names of the district,
proud to be stepping along with
the grown-up warriors, and
heroes, who had fought there.
~T HEN one day at school,
1 Maggie Sutherland, the
storekeeper’s thirteen-year-old
daughter, fell foul of Sarah
Weichmann, Erhard Weich-
mann’s eldest girl. There was
a sudden flare-up, and Sarah
Weichmann made a smack at
Maggie Sutherland, Maggie
made a slap back in defence ;
and what looked like becoming
a fight—between girls, this time
—was on, or would have been
on, had not Tom chanced to
come on the scene.
“Fools! ” he said, shoving
them apart. “Five-hundred lines
if Mug Face had spotted you! ”
And so it came about that
Tom was to take over a quarrel
between girls also.
“Fight it out away from the
school, like boys do,” he said.
“A proper fight, instead of pull-
ing yourselves about like rag
dolls.”
“Girls don’t have real fights
like boys,” said Maggie Suther-
land to nobody in particular.
“Because you’re not game to
fight,” Sarah Weichmann
sneered. “That’s why you say
that —coward! ”
“I'm not, an’ I’m not fright-
ened to fight you,” said Maggie.
“But it’s not proper.”
“Who’s too scared to fight
me !” jeered the Weichmann girl.
“A girl can fight like a boy if
my mother can plough like a
man.”
Never let it be said that store-
keeper’s daughter was ever a
funk.
“All right,” said Maggie, a
little diffidently, though. “I’l
fight you.”
And so it was fixed. Tom
swore the school to secrecy, and
as he said to the girls, a real
fight was the best and only way
to settle an argument properly —
boys and girls alike.
He looked magnanimously at
them. “Next Friday, after
school, at the Quarry.”
But, as Tom, the kindly and
considerate promoter, then said
to Puffer Adams, who had previ-
ously fought himself back into
the lifelong friendship with
Slinker Wilde after he had
grouped Slinker’s mother with
the two Chinamen, it would be
as well, this time, seeing that it
was a girls’ fight, to make it a
nine-rounder instead of the
customary ten rounds —this as a
gehtlemanly concession to the
weaker sex.
Now, although it could not
b* said that certain boys actually
and absolutely coached or trained
the opponents, still, it might be
said that Carl Schroeder was
heard whispering to Sarah
Weichmann not to forget to
keep her fists clenched tight;
and it might also be stated that
Grubs Sanders was actually seen
sparring unselfishly and most
learnedly with the Murray pine
by way of letting Maggie Suther-
land grasp the finer points and
intricacies of in-fighting.
BUT what can you do with
girls in a fight? And yet,
though it never reached any
great heights, historically, this
fight was never forgotten by any
of the boys, especially Tom.
It could be seen, as soon as
the old kero .-tin went for round
one, that Carl Schroeder’s whis-
pering to Sarah to keep her fists
clenched tight and the fact that
Grubs Sanders had defeated the
Murray pine in a fiery exhibi-
tion bout for Maggie’s benefit,
had been absolutely wasted on
the contestants. Whether it was
the solemnity and dignity of the
occasion, or the overpowering
depth, width and ruggedness of
the famous Quarry or not, no
one knew; but when Tom, who
was also referee, told them to
break, and as both girls still
kept hanging on and Tom had
to keep on ordering them to
break, and they didn’t obey,
Tom, on seeking to separate
them, saw that, instead of being
locked in a clinch, both
“fighters” were quietly, comfort-
ably, affectionately, most sorrow-
fully, and yet happily, weeping
on each other’s shoulder in the


8.0.A.C. presents the
World's First Jetliner
Now operating between London —South Africa
1
ft
A superb product of the
famous de Havilland Aircraft
Company working in close
collaboration with 8.0.A.C.,
this 36-passenger jetliner flies
at eight miles a minute —is
faster by more than 100 m.p.h.
than its nearest propeller-
driven competitor.
With this, the first pure Jet Airliner passenger service in
history, 8.0.A.C. maintains global leadership in air
transportation.
The Comet combines high speed with supreme comfort.
It takes off with a feeling of power to spare. It cruises
easily, smoothly at 35,00040,000 feet.
The Comet is quiet and free from vibration. Travel
fatigue is reduced to vanishing point. There is no
sensation of distance dropping behind at 8 miles a
minute.
The Comet will be used progressively on 8.0.A.C. world
routes —flying times will be almost halved over the
routes on which it serves.
8.0.A.C. LINKS ALL SIX CONTINENTS
Information & Bookings: Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C.
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
Darwin, or from Travel Agents in all cities and tcntnxs.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
IiTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOOTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
A3I/AU
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS. R. J. VICARS.
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
DOCTORS • STATESMEN e SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
Wm.
m
m
m-.
M
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE GIRL!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t have to win her "by a whisker ... it
was that smooth, clean-shaven look, "lour shave,
too, will look good and feel good with Palmolive—
the Shaving Cream that gives better shaves to 3
men out of every 4. Here’s the proof: 1,261 men
tried it . . . 81% reported “Beards easier to cut!
. . . 76% said "Less razor pull” . . . 71% said
“Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” Judge it yourself. Join the ranks of
successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream,
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
dfg
P6'e/fai
The shaving cream
of successful men
BANKERS • /EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
Commonwealth
df
of AuttraUa
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
NOTICE TO MEN ATTAINING THE AGE OF TO YEARS
BETWEEN Ist MAY and 31st AUGUST. 1052
Under the National Service Acts 1951, all male persons, not
exempt under the Acts from liability to register, who are
British subjects and ordinarily resident in Australia and have
attained or will attain the age of 18 years between Ist May,
1952, and 31st August, 1952 (both dates inclusive), ARE
REQUIRED TO REGISTER BY 2nd JUNE, 1952.
A person who has arrived and intends to make his home in Australia is
regarded as ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival.
A person who is absent from Australia during the period within which he
is required to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
If a person required to register is insane or so mentally or physically
incapacitated as to be unable to register personally, the person in whose
charge he is for the time being must do so on his behalf.
Any person who is required to register and who fails to do so is liable to
the penalties pres^jjbed_under_jhe_Acts.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Acts,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
EARLY REGISTRATION
If a male person of 17 years of age has good reason for wishing to
commence his National Service training without waiting until he is required
to register, he may register voluntarily even though he is not 18. Further
details may be obtained from Commonwealth Employment Service Offices.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S.I) are available at all Money Order Post
Offices and Commonwealth Employment Service Offices. Addresses of the
latter offices are in Telephone Directories. Detailed instructions on how
to register are in the Registration Form and the sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it.
YN5R4.83.42
true spirit of sisterly forgiveness.
Seeing how things were, Tom
now gallantly, and also most
generously, placed a hand on
each girl’s head (a draw) and
said, almost benignly, Now
shake!” and they shook, listlessly
maybe, but now in the true spirit
of eternal friendship.
As Tom said afterwards,
although the fight hadn’t gone
the full distance, still, for all that,
they’d settled their differences.
P ERHAPS it was just as well
l for one boy that next
Monday morning he happened
to have so many pains in his
stomach that his mother didn’t
know whether he had worms or
was suffering from eating too
many briarberries, and had to
keep him home from school; for
although the bushfire season was
now at its best, yet there was a
decidedly chilly atmosphere at
school. The importance of the
history of the world and the fact
that certain far, far rivers rise
in certain places were postponed.
The appetising Dissertation upon
Roast Pig was also off the
menu, and other erudite matters
shelved while the affair at the
Quarry, on Friday, after school,
was attended-to by the gentleman
in authoritative authority who
taught under the pseudonym of
“Mug Face,” although that cog-
nomen had not been chosen by
himself.
He had “been informed.”
And so, as the great Murray
runs inexorably to the sea, so
Right rose triumphantly over
Wrong, and the long, yellow,
snaky cane was to have an in-
dustrious morning.
“Fall out each boy who was
present at the disgraceful exhibi-
tion between two girls at the
Quarry, on Friday, after school! ”
Clump, clump, clumpety
clump, said nine boys’ boots.
Clog, clog, clog.
Here “Mug Face” mentioned
several technical matters as
between teacher and pupils, and
then referred to the fact that it
had never been the practice
among British people to goad
their females on to do battle
with each other. He then made
other statements relevant to the
matter.
“Mug Face” then said, but
with modesty, that he believed
in doing his duty and, most con-
siderately, expressed the hope
that the salutary lesson they
were about to feel would prove
beneficial to them in future.
So as to leave no doubt in
the minds of the recipients, the
recipients were then informed
that they would each receive
eight cuts of the cane, with the
exception of Tom, who, as “the
main culprit who had engineered
and arranged this dastardly out-
rage,” would receive twelve cuts.
But arithmetic was not abso-
lutely off the map.
Eight boys, eight cuts each
8 x 8 = 64
One boy, twelve cuts .. .. 12
76
Seventy-six cuts!
School punishment now having
reached its peak, the business of
administering it had to be
carried out on a group basis,
with an easy, free accessibility
to the hindquarters of the recipi-
ents (he preferred the seat to
the hand), so as to suit the con-
venience, and not retard the skill,
of the administrator, or prac-
titioner.
So we now see two groups,
or squads, each of four boys, all
bending over, heads touching,
the seats of their pants pointing
to north, south, east and west,
with Tom stood off on his own.
And we now see the cane mow
round each group in an easy,
even rhythmic manner —one,
two, three, four; one, two, three,
four; one, two, three, four, up
to the eight cuts each.
“Stand up!”
Gingerly, they stand up.
“When lessons are over you
will, in addition to the punish-
ment you have just received, stay
in and write five hundred lines
from ‘The Burial of Sir John
Moore.’ ”
We now come to Tom. Tom
is marched before the girls’ class.
“Bend over!”
It was a pity that Tom had
not known that on this very
morning he’d be facing the seat
of his torn pants to the girls’
class; had he even suspected
such a grave possibility, then he
might have induced his mother to
mend the tear that, besides re-
ducing a bloke’s status, made
that particular spot much more
vulnerable to the sting of the cane.
Tom took his twelve, stood up,
also gingerly, received the same
sentence (“The Burial of Sir
John Moore” —or was it Sir
Thomas?), and returned to his
seat.
I N the lunch-hour two separate
t groups stood bunched up in
the playground the girls
huddled together at the far
northern end of the playground,
the boys hunched up at the far
southern end of the ground.
The bunch of girls chattered
and kept gazing excitedly to-
wards the dark mass beneath the
Murray pine, where cold, hard
eyes looked disgustedly at the
female mob ; and out of that
sullen heap of boys a voice came.
“Blabbed! ”
Out of the same mass a second
voice took up the terrible accusa-
tion.
“They blabbed!”
But now, out of the solemnity,
comes a hurt, calm and disillu-
sioned voice saying “They’d bite
the hand that feeds ’em! ” —voice
of the promoter of a fight be-
tween Sarah Weichmann. (8.12)
and Maggie Sutherland (8.10),
fought to settle their own quarrel,
which he had refereed and,
though it was no fight at all,
had, out of the goodness and
fairness of his heart, declared a
draw, thereby helping to cement,
between the opponents, the true
bonds of lasting friendship.
“They’d bite the hand that
feeds ’em!”


ABORIGINALITIES
Brassard”: I have just returned from
Darkest Australia with tidings which rnay
have an important bearing on a recently-
observed phenomenon which has had our
flapper Press in ecstasies. Yabatinni
'Willie, the local Edison, had visited the
outskirts of Woomera and returned in
deep thought. In his primeval cranium
revolved ideas of great novelty. Secretly
and solidly he labored for weeks. From
a huge gum he wrought an outsize
boomerang, hollowed out to a catacomb
plan, and with countless fine vents
through the shell. Day by day he visited
the tribal-caves and snared bats, contain-
ing them in a crude reed-basket. With
gum he dressed the surface of the
boomerang and with crushed pyrites
sanded it to give it almost the glint of
gold. In due course he released almost
100 bats into the cavernous interior and
sealed the entry aperture with clay. Then
with the aid of many fellow-abos he bore
the contraption to the crest of a
precipitous outcrop out Mount Olga way,
and with suitable incantations hurled the
secret weapon over the cliff-edge. From
countless slits sprang bat-wings, fanning
and fluttering at their crazy speed which
defies vision. The eerie craft spun, re-
volving madly; now gaining height, now
dropping. It moved without apparent
design, darting, hovering, but ever spin-
ning, so that the gentle arc of the
boomerang appeared as a circular disk
glistening in the sun or reflecting the
moon. It never came back —seemingly it
has never landed. Willie forgot to name
the craft on launching, but has confided
to me that he will some day build
another, greater, “Fly-im Sorcer.”
* * * *
“Ingel Barr”: A furry funster playing
possumantics on our house-roof slithered
down the brick chimney to the lounge-
room. I got him into a box, took him
out two or three miles along the road,
and turned him loose on the roadside in
timbered country. He took off like a
Cup winner through the long grass for
about 50yds., passing a number of trees
en route, landed at full speed on a yellow-
box, tore up it for about 10ft. and dived
down a hole in the trunk quite invisible
from below. All the trees were equi-
distant from the road, all the same variety
and size, and, to human eyes, all as
suitable as the one chosen by Furry;
but investigation proved it the only one
with rooms to let. Now, did that
possum have X-ray eyes or did he carry
in his memory a working knowledge of
every tree for miles?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Y’ll find a hut out
there,” our new boss said. “Old Joe’ll be
in it, but don’t take no notice of him.
He might argue the point a bit, bein’ a
bit hostile t’ strangers, but if y’ take him
easy it’ll be all right.” As we headed
out on the 40-mile trip, loaded with tucker
and gear for the emu-bobbing job, I
said “Wonder what sort of a cove this
“It’s an awful risk unless one knows something about their parents”
Joe is?” “Aw,” Mat said, “we’ll soon
straighten him up.” There was nobody
in the hut when we got there, except a
a big tabby-cat, which spat at us and ran
under the floor. Night came. The cat
accepted us and came in and was friendly,
but there was no sign of Joe. There was
no sign of him next day, and when we got
a bit worried and looked round we could
see by the condition of the hut that no-
body had been there for some time. So
we concluded Joe must have lost himself
in the scrub somewhere. Early next day
Mat yoked up the sulky and set off on
the 40-mile drive to get help, while I
stayed at the hut in case Joe turned up.
What turned up that night was the boss’s
motor-car, with Mat and the boss in it,
the boss full of chuckles and Mat full of
profanity. Joe was the cat.
* * * *
“Peturi”: Can’t agree with “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 23/4/’52) that termites
leave their soldiers at home. They are
practically defenceless. The sticky fluid
they use is for mortar, not for bogging
down enemies. In the African bush
termites abound, as does an active black
ant called the robber-ant. I have seen a
termite nest and a robber-ant nest 100yds.
apart with a clear well-worn
track connecting the nests, the
track, about 4in. wide, winding
through the bush like a ribbon ;
and I have on several occasions
watched the assault on the
termites’ nest. The robber-ants
leave their nest in force, com-
plete with advance-guard, main
army and rearguard. When the
column is on the march it is
a compact band about 15ft. long
moving along the track like a
black ribbon. None is allowed
to stray—the scouts look after
that, Arrived at the termites’
nest three or four scouts
streak in at the front-door
for a look-see. Given the
0.K., the whole column dis-
appears through the front-door,
which is at ground-level. The
massacre takes about 20
minutes. First the scouts
reappear to see that all
is clear. Then the whole
column emerges, every one of
the raiding party carrying an
egg or a partly-formed
termite. As to the fighting oelow,
if any, it must be a very onesided affair.
If you check them in and out again you
will see there are no casualties and no
stragglers with sticky feet; every ant
except the scouts carries home a load. They
are deeply imbued with the idea that they
must work to eat. I’ve watched these
attacks from a particular robber-ant nest
over a long period, always the same
termite mound by the same beaten track.
At no time did I ever see a counter-
attack by the termites.
“Mel Bergen”; The fact that there is
no visible timber doesn’t necessarily mean
that there are no termites about —they
can live for years on the stumps and roots
beneath the surface. Even in parts where
these are missing they can live comfort-
ably, for they obtain their needed cellulose
from dry grass. From Tennant Creek
to Daly Waters in the Territory there are
hundreds-of-miles stretches with no
timber. It is all spinifex, with hundreds of
ant-mounds to the acre. The little nests just
sit on a porcupine bush. You can kick
over the small ones about Ift. high, but
by the time they are a couple of feet
high they have a good grip and go down
deep into the ground. In one big nest
which I broke open I found a great
number of their tunnels packed full of
the hard grass of the spinifex cut up
like chaff in lengths from half to an inch
long.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: It’s Bill’s yarn.
Only time I ever saw a goanna tackle a
snake was at a joint called Telyabrup,
down near Gnowangerup, where a couple
of blokes I knew had a clearing contract.
I was sitting in the tent one day waiting
for them to come in to lunch when a five-
foot bungarra came out of the scrub and
settled under the table. Bill came in a
minute later and put the billy on. ‘Him?’
he said. ‘That’s old Bung. He’s me pet.’
When Alf came in we had dinner, and
they fed Bung on pieces of bully-beef.
He got one piece that was a bit too big
for him, so he rubbed both sides of his
jaws against a tree until he could swallow
it. After lunch we were in the tent yarn-
ing when Alf, who was lying on a bunk,
gave a yell. Something cold had passed
over his arm. Then we saw Bung. He’d
come in the tent with us, and now he
was standing up, glaring at a box near
“Come on, you loafers —keep bailing !”
the bed. Suddenly he jumped into the
box, and plates and mugs flew all ways,
and then he came out dragging a four-
foot brown snake by the neck. Its head
was nearly chewed off when he dropped it
outside the tent and hopped off into the
bush. We thought he’d gone off to get
whatever it is they eat when they’ve' been
bitten by a snake, but he came back with
his missus and two kids. They polished
the saak© off between them.”
“Gravelsnatchef”: “Long Bob’s” right
(B. 23/4/’52). The southern stone-plover
can and does color its eggs to match the
ground on which they’re laid. As he says,
the birds depend on camouflage—and not
only to protect their nests. Their own
color blends so perfectly with their sur-
roundings that even in districts where
they’re still plentiful and can be heard
calling all night, you’ll seldom see one.
When they’re sitting on the eggs—and the
male does his share of the job, too —they
stretch their neck out flat on the ground
and remain rigidly still. They rely on
their ability to pass themselves off as a
piece of the landscape or a stick, and
their confidence in their camouflage is
such that they’ll sometimes remain quite
still even when lifted from the nest.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: At first I thought it was a
pair of porpoises ’way out on the blue
water (all right, I know there are no true
porpoises in Australian waters ; dolphins,
then). Their black fins appeared to be
bobbing up and down between rolls and
dives in proper por—er, dolphin fashion.
Gradually the black objects approached
closer to the headland. They ceased to
bob. Sharks, I decided as a second
thought. A few minutes later I changed
my mind again—they were not fish, but
fowl! Now their long necks were clearly
visible. Evidently the motion of the water
—and the distance —had given the illusion
of rolling and bobbing. Closer still —
and another puzzle had arisen: what sort
of birds? If they’d been on a lagoon or
river I would have answered without
hesitation —black swans. But would black
swans go cruising far beyond the breakers?
On the other hand, they were much too
big for shags, apart from the length of
their necks. Towards dusk, as I strolled
back towards Gerringong (N.S.W.), a
trail of big black birds flew overhead.
Sixty-three of them, in a rough count
these undoubtedly black swans. But
those two on the ocean? I’m still ponder-
ing.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Don’t know pelicans’
nesting haunts, but can tell “Rooster”
(B. 30/4/’52) that there are lots of
“Pelican Islands,” including one at
Tuggerah Lakes (N.S.W.). Incidentally,
America has a “Pelican Island” which
has had loads of publicity—possibly
more than any other island of its size in
the world. Yet it is safe to say that very
few of the people who know it by name,
and fewer who dread it, connect the
rocky island with the baggy-throated
bird. The Spaniards named it —because
it was the haunt of pelicans—“ Alcatraz.”
* * *
“Kelms”; I know that baby turtles
possess an instinct that guides them along
the shortest path to water ; but it seems
that they also know when it’s safe to
come out and when it’s best to lie doggo.
At least, in dry weather they don’t emerge
from the ground as soon as they leave
the shell. Dug a hole alongside a nest the
other day and found a dozen young
tortoises out of the eggs, but lying curled
up just as they must have been in the
shells. They were alive, but made no
movement when handled. Two which fell
out of the nest into the hole I was dig-
ging were put in a box, and within an
hour they were lively enough to be re-
leased where the swamp would have been
if we’d had rain. I don’t like their
chances of survival —although the
swamp’s dry a couple of cranes still
prospect it regularly. I left the rest in
the nest and they were still there some
days later ; they didn’t leave it until after
the rain. The ones I examined seemed to
have a sort of yolk at the base of the
neck and under the belly, probably
nature’s provision for a late summer.
IN CLOVER.
In the larger cities you may have to ring up the
Council,
And the call, with its usual india-rubber
bounce’ll
Be referred to the garbage contractor,
Who will ask you, with dangerous calm, to get
him a man
For the overpaid and highly congenial work
Of removing your garbage can
Of domestic murk.
Which brings you back t’
The serious problem of which he has made so
light.
(What are those splashes in the harbor at
night?)
What rubbish!
But in our city,
Where the motorist drives through a shower
of cassia petals,
Where the streets are paved with anything that
will grow,
(Cheaper, and easier on the feet than metals),
In the warm, mid-morning hours,
Fetlock deep in the summery, blossomy snow,
Down the middle of the footpath see her go—
The dirt-cart horse
Of course—
Tossing her head in a gale of the flowers
Because she has stuffed her face with the clover,
Chock-filled her mouth
To brimming over
With bunches of clover,
Hanging and dangling;
And arguing, wrangling
With the men who keep moving her on—
What can a poor horse do?
Not open her mouth to chew
In case she loses
Her food. So she abuses,
With a toss and a look, the men who keep
moving her on.
She can’t keep her teeth clenched indefinitely
Or she’ll never get any.
She wears a man’s necktie, and looks much
more pretty
Than a man eating spaghetti.
(I must order a dinner of clover when I go
south,
And wear it in my mouth.)
And they all nod good-morning,
The whole three of them,
And the men.smile good-morning,
The whole two of them;
But the horse,
In the circumstances,
Can’t, of course.
N.S.W.
JOYCE LEE.


“Ingel Barr”: “Herbert Dawson” (B.
30/4/ ’52) is right on the bullseye regard-
ing the christening of cows, but has
omitted a couple of favorites in Spot and
Cherry. Also, sentimental or fancy names
sometimes honor past or present cele-
brities. But misconceptions are possible.
I remember a 12-year-old lad in a
dairying locality shortly after a member
of a famous herd some 30 years ago had
come into prominence by creating a
world record for the production of
butter-fat for a year. During a school
music-lesson, in which there was reference
to Australia’s great prima donna, young
Aleck, asked where he thought the
famous lady got the inspiration for her
stage-name, unhesitatingly replied:
“From Melba of Darbalara, sir.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Sam is one of those
simple-minded blokes who take every-
thing literally. When the 1951 bushfires
raged through the district he was in the
thick of it and took a handy part in
saving a homestead occupied by some
Swiss Australians. Months later Sam
was back in the district and his Swiss
friendjs {showed him newspapers from
their homeland. They carried large
pictures of the bushfires, and pages of
descriptive letterpress, all in the heavy
bold German-Swiss type. Sam looked
at the pictures and then blankly at the
reading matter. His Swiss host explained,
“You see, it is about the fires, yes. They
make the picture and write about it,
already. You see they very—der ting, der
ting” Unable to find the English
word he turned to his wife “Alarmed,”
she supplied. He turned to Sam. “Ah,
yes, alarmed, they are. They are alarmed
about the fire, yes.” “Gripes,” Sam said.
“They must be easy scared. Wasn’t no
danger of the fires gettin’ near them, was
there? ”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: That sheepdog’s rescue
of a drowning canine cobber (B.
30/4/’52) follows on a happening in
south-west Queensland, where the tracks
of a killer dog whose depredations ex-
tended over several years were observed
only in immediate proximity to a smaller
dingo. Eventually, at the head of a
narrow gorge, a dogger got a little bitch
in his sights and did not miss. To his
surprise a previously unobserved huge dog
ran to the corpse and then, as the man
approached, blundered repeatedly against
a sheer rock-face, which he was apparently
trying to hurdle when bowled over by
the second shot. The post-mortem
showed the old pariah’s eyes covered by
thick cataracts, evidencing long-standing
blindness, thus indicating that for years of
their marauding the small bitch’s eyes
had served for the pair of them.
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: An American woman
photographer has “discovered,” in the
African jungle, that lions practise baby-
sitting. That is really nothing out of the
way among fauna. It has long
been noted by Antarctic explorers in
connection with penguins. Seals also
have baby-sitters in charge of their
“nurseries” during the day. I have also
seen the same thing among domestic
animals. Once knew an ancient mare
that always looked after the foals be-
longing to her juniors while these were at
work, or more often at play, back-biting
(literally) and flirting in another corner
of the paddock. This was entirely
voluntary because the mare loved foals.
But two female cats, each with a family
of kittens, had a rather different arrange-
ment, for the bigger cat would sit up on
“Tell ’em I'm stuck up; I got too much petrol .”
her hind-legs like a kangaroo, box the
ears of the smaller one and then chase
her to where their families lay asleep
side by side, quite obviously ordering her
to do the baby-sitting till she came back.
Having done which, she'd stroll off to
hunt.
* * * *
“Emjai”; Poison antidotes or emetics
aren’t always at hand when needed, as
we found when our crackajack rabbit-
dog picked up a bait in the paddocks. It
seemed that his number was up when
Sam grabbed him by the hind-legs and
swung him round and round until he
spilt the issue. He lived. Years after,
when treating the garden wogs with
arsenic spray, I heard a disturbance be-
hind and found the toddler head-down
in the bucket. He was rushed inside, and,
on the chance that he had swallowed a
dose filled up with salt-and-water. No
go. Then mustard-and-water; finger
down his throat —still nothing doing.
Thinking desperately what else was pre-
scribed in “What to do till the doctor
comes” I recalled the treatment of Paddy,
the dog, and promptly swung the little
cove. It worked, with no after-effects
except that temporarily he was allergic to
merry-go-rounds, and as a grown man
he prefers his drinks from a glass.
* * * a
“Bert”: It was laughable to watch the
blue jay’s efforts last year to immobilise
the pumpkin-seeds which he wanted to
deal with under the bench on the old
back-veranda, where we cut up our
pumpkins. As fast as he tried to pin
them down they would slip from his claws
and shoot away across the veranda-
boards. Not to be beaten, he picked one
up in his beak and flew across to an old
seat under a kurrajong-tree, where time
and the weather had opened up the
groove-and-tongue boards. Upending a
pumpkin-seed the jay wedged it into a
crack between the boards and there dealt
with it to his satisfaction, repeating the
process till he had finished his meal.
This year, on his first return to the old
place, the jay wasted no time on the back-
veranda. Picking up a pumpkin-seed he
flew straight to the seat and wedged the
seed into the crack as before. How’s
that for memory after an interval of
12 months?
* * * *
“Stunner”: The bloke who took four
beltings from his hired hand but wouldn’t
sack him because he refused to let “senti-
ment interfere with business” (B. 2/4/’52)
must be from the same stable as my
neighbor. We were pitching into each
other hot and strong —orally. During a
pause in the proceedings, while we caught
up with our breathing and tried to recall
more grievances, he made a remark that
rocked me more than all his threats,
accusations and slanders: “Anyhow, what
I came to ask you was will you look
after my chooks next week while I’m
away on holidays?”
* * » *
“The Missus”: My father was an out-
standingly good bushman, having learned
quite a lot of it from the aboriginals who
worked and played on their old tribal
territory around Grandfather’s homestead.
Among many happy memories of my
childhood are those of drives taken behind
Dad’s smart grey mare along the gravelled
roads and winding bush-tracks in our
own part of Victoria’s western district.
Many a time along bush-fringed roads
out Mailer’s Flat way Dad would stop
the buggy and, pointing with his whip
to a type of rather bushy eucalypt with
smallish rounded dark-green leaves, would
say: “Look, I bet that’s a manna-gum.”
The resultant scramble to see invariably
proved him to be right as we came upon
the small white specks scattered freely
on the underside of the leaves. Each tiny
flake was about the size of a split-pea
and we never became tired of their honey-
flavored sweetness, probably because we
never had more than an ounce or so
altogether, despite our eager gleaning.
Later I was to meet the manna of com-
merce, large yellowish cakes of exudate,
each one about the size and shape of a
hard-boiled egg sliced in half longways.
They were sickly and insipid, lacking the
bush freshness and fragrance of the small
flakes of our childhood. They came, I
was told, from Arabia, where they
are known as “the Almighty’s Sugar
Plums.”
* * * *
“M’Low”: Kelly is certainly quick on
the uptake. As our egg-supply suddenly
vanished I, with deckchair and book,
waited on guard in the partly-unroofed
shed where some hens still nested.
Presently a crow, flying directly for the
shed, must have caught sight of me at
about 25yds. out, for without a falter
he executed a beautiful about-turn as if
flying merely for fun. I got some eggs
that afternoon.
* * * *
“Cisticoltj”: Almost any garden or
woodland bird will barter its shyness for
a few scraps of not-too-hard cheese —a
taste often credited only to the mudlark
(or peewee). Some can be persuaded to
accept it from hands or catch it in mid-
air. The late Harry Wolstenholme, a
birdlover of Sydney’s northern suburb of
Wahroonga, discovered the efficacy of
cheese some 25 years ago, and used it so
effectively that he had wild specimens of
four kinds of native birds feeding from
his hand, four other species frequently
approaching to “ask” for titbits and 45
CONDITIONS
•RATES
OF
P/\V
/
“I see—and what does a general get?”
kinds patronising (from time to time) a
shallow drinking and bathing vessel close
to the rear of his house. The star-
performer among the Wolstenholme
guests was jacky-winter, the brown fly-
catcher, who never missed a trick when
a scrap of cheese was tossed aloft. Force
of example caused the yellow-faced
honeyeater to try the same method —it
began to evolve into a flycatcher, or
cheesecatcher. A larger honeyeater, the
yellow-ear, preferred to lick sugared
water from a hand. It was a pleasant
experience to feel the firm little claws of
this bird, or those of the cheese-loving
grey thrash and yellow robin, clinging to
one’s fingers.
* * * *
“Shadow-chaser” reports on a pre-
carious existence:
I’ve had a nest of bull-ants under observation
for a year or more, and have learned that they
are nocturnal in hot weather, not “at home” to
all callers in very cold weather, venture far
from home —apparently foraging—in good
weather, and climb trees, apparently always
returning empty-handed. They build a single-
entrance nest, banking the earth in a waterproof
circle to a height of six or eight inches round
the doorway. Most colonies consist of about
50 to 60 ants, which place their eggs in pre-
pared positions in the mound a few inches
above ground-level, living in the cellar, which
is usually less than a foot deep. The eggs
look like celluloid, are about an inch long and
as thick as a slate-pencil, and pale-yellow to
brown, varying to conform with the soil. When
watering an adjacent tree I accidentally flooded
their nest. Immediately a procession of ants
emerged and each one carefully carried an egg
along a well-defined path to another nest, of
which I had no knowledge, about 40yds. away.
Within a few days they had repaired and
reoccupied nest No. 1, leaving only a skeleton
force to hold No, 2, which was evidently for
use in emergencies only. Despite their savage
defence of their progeny, and the absence of
enemies, they disappear with human settlement,
unlike the meat-ants, which thrive on persecu-
tion. These latter also store their young well
above ordinary high-water mark, but in the
event of flood will attempt to stop the inrush
of water by forming a living cork of their game
little bodies. Many are drowned in sudden
thunderstorms, though many apparently-drowned
revive later.
* * * *
“Bagot”: Mac was at the pub having
one or two for the long road back to the
farm when a tall, skinny stranger began
holding forth on his experiences of
drought in Westralia. “I’ve been through
the Kimberleys,” he boasted, “when the
cattle were dying like flies and the crows
dropping lifeless from the withered
branches of the trees. I’ve been through
the Murchison when a hundred dead
sheep could be counted for every live one.
I’ve been through the eastern wheatbelt
when” Mac could stand it no longer.
“I reckon you have,” he cut in. “You
look like y’ bin skinned an’ hung on a
fence t’ dry. Well, stay dry!” And Mac
made for his ute.
* * * *
“Edx”: The hard, high-yielding wheats
developed by men like Farrer proved their
value, and were appreciated in places far
removed from wheatfarms. Old George,
camped out from Lawlers (W.A.) years
ago, made his usual circular damper one
morning with skill and care, laid it in
the ashes, and, taking his pick, strolled
over to the quartz outcrop. Soon he was
napping away, all but gold forgotten, and
when hunger at last drove him back to
his camp the damper was an adamantine
ruin. On taking it up he noticed that it
had been laid down over a sharp stone
which had formed a triangular hole
through the centre of it. Thinking it a
crime to waste so much good food,
George keyed a short axle through it,
mounted it in a frame and, devising a
simple treadle, soon had the thing spin-
ning. With it he gave his axe the best
edge it had had for years, repointed his
gads, touched up his knife, and, when he
was ready to leave, shrunk a tyre on and
fitted it to his barrow, to replace the
worn-out wheel. Months later, pushing
into Leonora, the bearing ran hot, the
barrow burst into flames, and, before he
could do much more than unload it,
burned to the ground. With great
difficulty George completed the
demolition by putting the wheel through
his dolly-pot, and, dishing it off at the
four-mile creek, recovered about sdwt.,
which almost defrayed the cost of a new
barrow. c*
MANGBIRR.
[Ted Shawn, the famous American dancer, saw
Mangbirr—called by the whites Mosic or M oses
performing a ritual aboriginal dance at DeUssruue,
and afterwards wrote in the American magazine
“Dance” “I have seen some of the best dancers in
the world, but now I have seen them equalled.
Mangbirr died in Darwin, but was buried in his
tribal land.]
The “Dead-one” sleeps beside Beluan’s spring,
Where tribesmen chant as women watch and
wait.
Afar a dingo wails, and slow of wing
A muk-muk owl goes hooting for its mate;
Goes hooting . . . but the ritual-songs must
fade
As camp-fires of the tribe go burning low.
Now calls the old Earth-mother, that a “shade ’
Shall travel outwards as the ebb-tides flow.
For you no more shall “tap-sticks” give the
beat
That tribesmen use to greet the song-man’s
song
And stamp the earth with rhythmic-pounding
feet
As in you lead the painted ritual throng.
A didgeridoo goes droning through the night
To warn old Warin —who must judge your
“shade” —
That all are watching for that morning light
When sorrow shall begin, as you are laid
In tabooed ground amidst the bloodwood trees
Where possums chatter, and the red ’roos
leap
Amidst the spear-grass and the crackling leaves
Above your tribal dust , . . Sleep, dancer,
sleep.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


One of the most Important
Documents you
will ever sign . . .
YOUR Will Is a document that vitally affects the
welfare of your dependants. It should be competently
drawn; it should be promptly revised whenever
necessary; and it should appoint an efficient Executor
and Trustee for your Estate. In this regard, a wise
choice is to appoint the Permanent Trustee Company
. . . specialists in Trust and Estate management since
1887, with over £1,000,000 of uncalled capital and assets
as your guarantee of security.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet—" Trust Estates and Their
Management."
X
ft
U
l 9
'x
//'
Permanent
Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-35 O’Connell St., Sydney
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
G. Moncrieff Barron,
0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M.,
F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager:
F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager: S. U. White.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews
Pastoral Inspector:
Hugh A. Stewart*
PT30.15
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRICKBATS FOR MR. MENZIES.
Exporters and sections of the
Press in Britain opened a savage
barrage on the Australian im-
port-cuts as soon as these were
announced.
Most of them, however, have
rested hopes on the present visit
of Mr. Menzies.
There would seem to be some
pot-and-kettle aspects in the row.
When the “Times” poured its
sourest brand of sarcasm on the
mention of book-import restric-
tions here, the chairman of a
top American publishing-house
wrote to the “Times” editor sug-
gesting that this was nice and
“grandmotherly” when Britain’s
own book-import restrictions
were severe.
Americans, of course, have
nothing to crow about on that
issue, nor, the way they’re now
using their tariff-quota laws, are
they in much of a position to
criticise any other British import
restrictions. Still, the comment
in Britain on the Menzies Gov-
ernment’s cuts has been so
persistent and loud that little is
heard—certainly very little is
heard here —of Britain’s own.
On this the “U.S. News and
World Report” has noted that
“American exporters find many
doors in Britain and other
British countries being gradually
closed or else slammed shut by
stiffening import restrictions,”
and also that it is not Australia
only but “the whole sterling
area” which “is retrenching,
cutting imports to export level.”
Further :
“Britain’s own import cuts
threaten to raise problems with
neighbors. British import-curbs
hit European exporters hard,
especially since they coincide
with similar French measures.
There’s grumbling and some talk
of retaliation against British
goods in Italian and Dutch
circles.”
Australia’s “Good Name”
Typical of the bulk of com-
ments in Britain on the Aus-
tralian import-cuts, a recent
“Financial Times” letter by
M. D. Rhoden:
“The sense of grievance felt
by traders with long-established
connections with Australia ; the
humiliation of Australian buy-
ing houses in this country ; the
financial losses incurred by firms
who have made goods specially
for the Australian market—all
these things pale into insignifi-
cance beside the inestimable
damage the Commonwealth is
inflicting upon herself. Hundreds
of manufacturers have written to
Australian buying-houses ex-
pressing their disappointment
and shock that ‘merely by the
stroke of a pen, this trust and
goodwill can be wiped out’....
“We are a great trading nation
—we live by our international
trade. Yet, what a mockery is
made of good faith, a necessity
for international trade, by the
ill-planned yet belated Austra-
lian action, which enforces re-
pudiation of contracts. And
what a hostage the British Gov-
ernment is holding to fortune
by her easy acceptance of a
sister-nation’s repudiation of
firm orders! Are other countries
to be encouraged, profiting by
Australia’s example, to do like-
wise?
“Let us hope that wiser
counsels will prevail and that
when those two great statesmen,
Mr. Churchill and Mr. Menzies,
meet, a way will be found
whereby Australia can honor
her outstanding commitments
and, at the same time, main-
tain her own good name.”
The “Real Vice”
In the same vein, London
“News Chronicle’s” financial
editor, Oscar R. Hobson, may
be quoted as also typical of
majority feeling. Contending
that if Australia had revalued
its currency, writing up its 16s.
pound to 205., when the wool-
price boom was getting into its
stride 18 months ago, it would
have put the brakes on the boom
and have cushioned the sub-
sequent recoil, Hobson com-
mented : “It is over a year now
since the price of wool first
crashed. Australia had plenty
of warning of trouble ahead.
She put off action and inevitably
was in the end driven into a
position in which she had to act
ruthlessly, arbitrarily and un-
justly.
“It is,” he went on, “an irony
that the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, the famous —
or infamous —G.A.T.T., while it
has a great deal to say on non-
discrimination as between
countries has nothing to say
on non-discrimination as between
individual traders.
“The real vice of the Austra-
lian imports cuts is that they do
discriminate most unfairly and
most unfortunately between
different exporters to the Com-
monwealth. They discriminate
against just those of Australia’s
suppliers who have done
business with her longest and
trusted her most.
“They discriminate in favor
of those traders, whether on the
far side of the Iron Curtain or
this side, who have refused to do
business with her unless they
were guaranteed against loss by
the provision of a ‘confirmed’ or
irrevocable banker’s credit.
“Under the Australian import-
restriction order of March 8, the
guillotine fell on a wide range
of imports subject to exception
only in the case of goods con-
signed under irrevocable credits
open on that day. In that way
the Australian Government pro-
tected its own importers and
banks, on whom loss would
have fallen, at the expense of
dealing out loss to exporters who
had not protected themselves, or
alternatively and contingently on
protracted and expensive litiga-
tion, to the Australian importers
sued for breach of contract by
the exporters.
“It is, incidentally, being
asked why all exporters did not
secure themselves by insisting
on reimbursement via confirmed
banker’s credits. The answer is
that traders in general have not
hitherto regarded the Common-
wealth Government’s actions as
a contingency needing to be in-
sured against. And the infer-
ence is that, if this example is to
stand, bankers henceforth will
be less ready, and charge more,
to open such credits in the
future.”
But “No Alternative”
A “Financial Times” staff
writer “Lombard” has sur-
veyed the issue more soberly
than most British commenta-
tors:
“It is, of course, the case
[writes “Lombard”] that traders
in this country [Britain] have
been greatly incensed by the
gd
—London “News Chronicle.”
WIDE , EMPTY SPACES ...
(The others present are President of the Board of Trade
Thomecraft and Chancellor of the Exchequer Butler.)
manner in which the Australian
Government has moved to carry
out the undertaking it gave in
London to bring Australia’s ex-
ternal payments into equilibrium
in the second half of this year.
“The severity and timing of
the cuts in Australian imports
from the United Kingdom,
which the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is enforcing as part of
its general plan to eliminate the
country’s payments deficit, have
caused the most serious incon-
venience to British exporters.
And the sense of grievance felt
by those concerns, which are
among the oldest-established in
the Australian market, has been
underlined by the fact that the
restrictions have damaged their
trade even more seriously in
many cases than the trade of
those who are relatively new to
the Australian market.
“This is because those with
long-standing connections with
the Australian market have fre-
quently dispensed with such pre-
cautionary measures as letters of
credit. And the Australian Gov-
ernment’s measures sometimes
deal more leniently with orders
under letters of credit than those
which are not so covered.
“But, though the British
authorities are naturally con-
cerned about the difficulties
which British exporters are ex-
periencing as a result of Aus-
tralia’s cuts, there are no indica-
tions that they have considered
it expedient to try to secure any
modification of the Australian
restrictions as they affect British
goods. It is possible that White-
hall may feel that the Australian
measures have been unduly
harsh in some directions. But
it is clear that the broad official
view in London is that the Aus-
tralian Government had no
alternative but to impose
relatively severe restrictions on
U.K. products to fulfil the
undertakings it gave at the
London conference.”
The writer expected that Mr.
Menzies will discuss in London,
among other things, the prospects
of Britain extending a credit of
£som. or £loom. to Australia to
minimise the dislocation of
Anglo-Australian trade caused
by the import-saving plan. He
added:
“However, there are strong
arguments against such a
measure on the Australian side,
inasmuch as it is a transaction
that would alleviate short-term
difficulties only at the expense
of aggravating long-term prob-
lems.
“It is also doubtful whether
such a proposal would have
much to commend it from the
British point of view. For the
provision of credit facilities to
Australia would presumably
mean that, for a time, Australia
would be a recipient of unre-
quited exports from this
country. And it is generally
agreed that this country is not at
present in a position to step up
the flow of exports that do not
bring a quick return in foreign
exchange.”
Dragnet Digest.
Acrobatic Adenauer. Life
isn’t all beer-and-skittles for the
German Chancellor, as seen by
London “Spectator”: “He has
to hold together a precarious
coalition, repel the attacks of a
frequently venomous Opposi-
tion, and get agreement on Ger-
many’s participation in a Euro-
pean Army without giving the
French reason to think he is
giving too little or Germans
reason to think he is giving too
much.”
Security v. Scientists. —London
“Economist” on one definite
brake against the sharing
of atomic secrets; “The trouble
about international co-operation
in these matters is that no nation
is willing to enlarge the security
risk by divulging secrets of such
transcendent importance even to
its allies, especially when so
many scientists everywhere are
genuinely opposed to any restric-
tion of the traditional freedom
of publicity in science—or have
Communist sympathies.”
Russians Are Being Told. —As
reported from Moscow in “New
York Times,” the Russian Com-
munist party’s thesis today is
that there can be no talk of a
“withering away” of the Soviet
State at this time, but that on
the contrary every means must
be taken to strengthen the State’s
power, and particularly its army
and intelligence service because
of the “growing threat of a new
anti-Soviet war.”
The Great Alliance.
London “Financial Times”
assessment: “America and the
United Kingdom have drawn to-
gether in what is predominantly
an English-speaking alliance.
Though the emphasis of this
alliance is at present primarily
on military affairs, there is no
reason to think, or to fear, that
co-operation will not develop in
other directions as well.”
Japs Play Their Cards. —
London “Economist,” comment-
ing that the Jap leaders look like
fostering their own interests very
skilfully, whatever the West may
do: “Their interests hardly
coincide with those of the Com-
munist Powers, although the
latter will certainly woo them
with the lure of trade and by
other methods. It must seem to
their leaders that, if they play
their cards carefully, they may
yet get the best of both worlds.”
Up to the Japs. —“New York
Times,” on its own support of
“Japan’s re-entry into the comity
of nations”: “It must be re-
membered that this is not an
automatic process. Japan must
rehabilitate her international
position by clear and positive
gestures of goodwill and by con-
vincing demonstration that her
former victims need not again
live in fear.”
Sign of the Times. —Maybe
various deductions might be
made from this British Govern-
ment advertisement: “The
Supply Ministry requires a
scientist to work in the library
at the Atomic Energy Research
Establishment, Harwell, Berks.
Knowledge of Russian would be
a qualification.”
The Only Answer, Force. —
New York “Herald Tribune”
summing-up: “Communism can-
not be combated by reason, logic,
or even economic improvement,
because none of these things is
important to it except possibly
as a tool or lever toward domina-
tion ; in the last analysis it can
be combated only by force, since
force can alone prevent the
seizure of powers which make
Communism’s position, once it
has triumphed, impregnable.”


Divorce Notices.
TO PETER McINTYRE address unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife EDNA
MAY McINTYRE has commenced proceed-
ings against you in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia for divorce on the
ground of Desertion by you for a continu-
ous period of 3 years or more or alterna-
tively on the ground of separation of the
parties for a continuous period of not
less than five years there being no reason-
able likelihood of cohabitation being re-
sumed IF you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within SIXTY clear days from
the date of this publication In default
of your so doing the cause may proceed
and the Court will pronounce Judgment
and make orders against you in your
absence. DATED this 2nd day of May
1952.—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN ESQ., of 37-38 Pad-
bury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in
the State of Western Australia, Solicitor
for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT EDWARD VICKERY late
of Burwood.—TAKE NOTICE that UNA
MAVIS VICKERY has filed a petition for
divorce No. 187 of 1952 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
3 years and upwards and is asking for
the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Stret Sydney by the 23rd day of June
1952 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from R. D. MURRAY &
CO., Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN DIVORCE.
TO THEODORE PERCY LLOYD last
heard of at Sydney New South Wales
Gentleman but now of parts unknown the
husband of ELEANOR EDITH PERRY
LLOYD of Pahiatua in New Zealand
Married Woman Respondent. TAKE
NOTICE that a petition by your wife for
the dissolution of her marriage with you
on the grounds of your constructive
desertion of her or alternatively of your
habitual drunkenness and habitual cruelty
to her for a period of four years has been
filed in the Supreme Court at Wellington
in the Dominion of New Zealand together
with a notice to the effect that unless you
file an answer to the said petition in the
said Court at Wellington on or before the
Ist day of September 1952 you will not
be entitled to be heard on the petition
except on questions of costs maintenance
or other ancillary relief and the Court
may proceed to hear the petition and
pronounce judgment without your being
heard FURTHER that until you have
given an address for service you will not
be entitled to receive notice of any pro-
ceeding or documents or to address the
Court at any stage of the proceedings.
The decree for dissolution is made by
decree nisi in the first place, and until
such decree nisi is made absolute the
marriage is not dissolved. A decree nisi
is not a defence to a charge of bigamy.
A Copy of the said petition and notice
will be supplied to you on application at
the Supreme Court office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 6th day of
May 1952.—H. J. WORTHINGTON,
Deputy Registrar.
FRIENDS of the respondent are par-
ticularly requested to forward to him the
foregoing advertisement.
ARTHUR RIDDIFORD COOPER is the
solicitor for the petitioner, whose address
for service is at the offices of Messieurs
Biss and Cooper in the M.L.C. Building,
Lambton Quay, Wellington.
CINZANO
A
Sweet
or
Dry
fg
Public Notices.
WILLIAM ALFRED BEATON, formerly
of Euroa, Victoria, and Yetman, New
South Wales. Will anyone knowing his
whereabouts please communicate with
TURNER & TURNER, Solicitors, Euroa,
Victoria.
I, SVERRE LIE, of Norwegian nation-
ality, bom at Bergen, Norway, resident
10 years in Australia, now residing at 80
Bowman Street, Drummoyne, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Ins Lira with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED,
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Born 7820
still going strong •
¥L
r*
\
/
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
It was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the little Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JW. 146.1?
life can Sapplq Spare
Parts for BVeRXi
Enqiae We Have
Ever Built!
That’s one advantage
of buying a Ronaldson-
Tippett Engine. It’s
an assurance too of
satisfaction which you
cannot afford to ignore.
Don’t let import
restrictions worry you!
Wherever you are,
you can always be sure
of spare parts for your
Ronaldson-Tippett
Engine ... the Engine
built in Australia for
Australian conditions.
m i)
iqn
/«?!/Q
ISs£
■ ■ :.xz.
JJ uum
•A 44
04fi
J
tt
*95?
BUY THE
RIGHT ENGINE
FIRST S
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke St. N.S.W. Dis
tributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge St., Sydney. Qld. Dis
tributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane
RONftLOSON-TIPPETT
ENGINES
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
of most 51305 J
SUNDRY SHOWS
ART ON TOUR.
Nobody likes to look too
closely at a gift-horse ; and no
doubt students will find profit,
artists and connoisseurs much
interest in the exhibition of
British watercolors (1850-1914)
sent on an Australian and New
Zealand tour by the Empire Art
Loan Exhibitions Society and
now at the N. S, Wales National
Gallery.
But, rightly or wrongly, the
public will expect to find at such
an exhibition some of the splen-
dors and triumphs of British art;
and, confronted with this pale
and timid array of oddments
from provincial galleries and
minor fragments from a few
major watercolorists such as
David Cox, must inevitably be
bewildered and disappointed.
The only painting really to
bring a moment of surprise and
delight is Brabazon’s “Mediter-
ranean Coast,” in which the most
brilliant sapphire of sea-water
manifests itself through some
indeterminate haze which might
be cloud or might be foliage or
might be nothing but paint, but
which, whatever it may be,
serves its purpose of dramatising
the superb flash of blue. And
the Brabazons as a whole —his
crystallisations of lyric feeling
reminding one, as always, of J. J.
Hilder’s watercolors ; Brabazon
more brilliant, Hilder more deli-
cate —form the strongest group
on display.
But the total effect of this
Brabazon group is very weak by
comparison with the dozen-or-so
Brabazons exhibited not long ago
at the Gallery from the collec-
tion of Mr. Norman Schureck;
and surely it is extraordinary
that the best this Empire Loan
Society can spare us from Eng-
land is not a match for what
can be provided by a private
collector in Sydney.
Contributing to the general
weakness of the display, if at
the same time adding to its
interest, there are animal draw-
ings by Landseer pleasing
enough in themselves ; and one
at least (“Roebuck and Fawn”)
with a touch of life —which can
hardly be classed as watercolors.
There are a couple of exceed-
ingly sentimental pieces by Ford
Madox Brown which of course
give no idea of Madox Brown’s
great powers as an oil-painter;
and, in a similar category, there
are some very thin tinted draw-
ings by D. Y. Cameron, whom
one thinks of principally as an
etcher.
Then, very much lower down
the scale —though there is a cer-
tain degree of craftsmanship,
and Victorian sentimentality is
not intrinsically worse than 20th-
century horror or crudity: both
are the fashions of the period,
under which art persists—there
are the sugary little pieces of
Birket Foster and Helen Ailing-
ham, full of nice children,
thatched cottages and prancing
puppies.
And finally, when you stop to
admire a painting, as often you
do, it is nearly always with the
reflection that much finer accom-
plishments can be seen any year
at the exhibitions of the Aus-
tralian Watercolor Institute.
There are very few landscapes
that could seriously be compared
with a good Townshend or an
Eldershaw ; the solitary flower-
piece by Francis James would
look insignificant beside a Maud
Sherwood, a Margaret Coen or
a Nornie Gude.
Australian watercolor has, in
fact, since the tradition of the
full flowing wash was initiated
by Blamire Young and estab-
lished by Heysen and Norman
Lindsay, maintained a very high
standard; but Blamire Young
himself came to us from Eng-
land, and the display of these
trifling examples from the great
English tradition is likely to
create a very misleading impres-
sion.
The only way to approach the
exhibition, therefore, is not in
the expectation of splendors, but
for the interest in great names
however inadequately they may
be represented and for the
moments of life and charm
which, in a minor way, do fre-
quently occur: a large, wobbly
and very lively goat, with some
other admirable animal-paintings
by Joseph Crawhall; Berenger
Benger’s pleasingly rocky “Castle
Rock” ; Burne-Jones’s “An Idyll”
with an unexpected sombre rich-
ness about it; John Callow’s
lovely “Windjammer” with its
furled sails against a towering
sky of smoke and clouds ; Ran-
dolph Caldecott’s amusing draw-
ings of John Gilpin’s ride;
Henry Gastineau’s tiny grey
drama of mountains and a
river; Albert Goodwin’s white
horse with its cart emerging
from a Turneresque Paris; J.
Middleton’s light and shade
where the road goes through the
trees; Arthur Melville’s eastern
scenes with something of Nor-
man Lindsay’s opulence of color
but lacking in concentration ; A.
W. Rich’s bright “Arundel
Castle” ; James Pryne’s remark-
ably fresh “Landscape Sketch”
with the woman walking along
the brown road among the
brown trees; Harry Palmer’s
“Tantallon Castle,” with battle-
ments and sea and cliffs, like a
livelier Lister-Lister ; the success
E. A. Walton has made of the
very difficult art of watercolor
portraiture in “The Game-
keeper’s Daughter” ; the pleasant
little patch of wild countryside
in E. M. Wimperis’s “Drying
Clothes” ; the slight but luminous
Wilson Steer; and the Sargent
portrait of “Mrs. Barnard and
Her Daughter”—effective enough
in its bold and splashy style, but
not really as charming as the
average Rupert Bunny on the
theme of women in a sunlit gar-
den, and a work of very little
significance when you relate it
to Sargent’s magnificent achieve-
ments in oils.
Operatic
Double-Header.
It remains a continuing
wonder where N.S.W. National
Opera is getting all its talent
from. The latest to set opera-
goers by the ears is Marie
Collier, who as Santuzza com-
pletely dominated that potted
piece of super-passion
“Cavalleria Rusticana.” I n
addition to striking beauty and a
rich soprano of dramatic weight,
she possess extraordinary
histrionic ability, and she used
those two last attributes with
high intelligence.
The well-decorated, -staged
and -dressed production by
Mina Shelley had also the ad-
vantage of some very masculine
singing by Neil Easton as the
vengeful Alfio, and a Turiddu
by Ronald Neill which, though
barely adequate on the dramatic
side, was well sung, though his
off-stage “Siciliana” could have
been invested with a more soar-
ing lyricism.
In “Pagliacci,” the other one-
act twin on the bill at Sydney
Tivoli, the passion voltage was
stepped-up even more, so much
so that it left Ronald Dowd as
Canio almost an emotional
wreck after he had bumped off
sweetheart and lover. But his
“On With the Motley” was a
splendidly-judged piece of work.
Alan Light has revealed himself
as an actor of quality and—as
his “Prologue” emphasised—a
well-equipped baritone, Angelina
Arena, the Nedda of the night,
moved daintily and surely
through rather conventional act-
ing, and her lyric soprano has
nice quality. John Dudley’s
sound-production kept the
torrid events moving at brisk
pace. Ivan Rixon made a first-
rate job of his conducting.
Badura-Skoda.
Gieseking’s four-sonata recital
convinced one against one’s
will that the “Pathetique” was
merely pathetic, and the “Moon-
light” only moonshine ; Badura-
Skoda, in his three-concerto
concert at Sydney Town Hall,
avenged the earlier Beethoven.
The young composer’s turbulent
search for staccato and synco-
pated effects, his equally
extravagant melancholy, in the
C Major concerto, Op. 15, which
to the mature mind of Gieseking
were only a child’s playthings,
found in the 24-year-old pianist
a headlong enthusiast; he filled
to perfection the buskin which
hung loose round the withered
shanks of a master who lacked
only youth.
It would be beside the point
to speak of Badura-Skoda’s
technique ; he has the gift, rarely
given otherwise perfect tech-
nicians, of raising a performance
to a clarity which is only feel-
ing: one heard the opening of
the Largo as one would hear the
beginning of a great oration —
and one hung on to the speech
till the last note. If three con-
certos were not too much for
Badura-Skoda, they Were too
much for this reviewer; the
Franck variations and the Liszt
concerto were only vague tail-
pieces to one of the most joyous
and exciting performances in
memory.


o
r?.
U(&
-K5
(_v
*>
0 MAKE A C*KE
Bake a Cake
Bakers man.
Deck it with tapers as quick as you
can!
Dozens of kiddies are coming to tea.
Dear little Cuddles has just turned
three;
Poor little girlie! We thought she’d
die,
Dread croup is so prevalent in July:
Watching her gasping was hard to
endure
Till she had
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER ?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
IHB APSTRATTAV
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
C/imdtr
1
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Koad,
Camperdowa, Sydney, N.B.W.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ftf YEARS OP SERVICE
TO TUB AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
df
Terrific Screen Printed Ties
Scotch Girl with
separate Skirt
in Light Blue,
Fawn, Grey,
Champagne.
Send 10/6.
Sydney Harbour Bridge.
In Red, Fawn, Brown.
Send 10/6.
Horse Head with Horse
Shoe and Whip in Fawn,
Champagne. Send 10/6.
Bathing Girl, Red, Blue.
Send 10/6.
Wool Gaberdine Suits.
City Mutual Life
Writ- Increase
_ ten Total
" ec *» Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Assets.
£ £ £ £ £
1945.. 1,786,135 783,182 273,715 39,931 1
To general reserve, £50,000 .. 1 840,273
To tax reserve, £15,000 .. ..J
Profit, sale property, £36,248 ..1
,«.„ Interest from Previous years, £71,571 j- 931,607
1946.. 1,964,122 796,221 297,730 40,783 J
Profit, sale property, £226.278 . )
1947.. 2,118,921 772,338 376,574 54,763 | 1,182,732
Profit, sale property, £41,780 . . 1
,„.„ lnterest from Previous years, £38,662 [ , ...
1948.. 2,253,623 828,257 367,438 120,950 f MOl.eS*
To contingency reserve, £10,000 ..J
From tax reserve, £28,000 .. . ."|
Profit, sale property, £8252 ..1-1,152,497
1949.. 2,482.342 880,922 386,055 20,604]
Profit, sale property, £23,185 . . ]
1950.. 2.718,286 920,790 419,303 33,790 1-1,447,334
To contingency reserve, £ 25,000 .. J
Profit, sale property, £16,585 .. ]
1951.. 3.123.782 928,470 501.600 68.872 L
To tax reserve, £15,000 .. f 1.901,184
To contingency reserve, £ 18,000 '.'. J
Economic and other trends are placing
fresh emphasis on the virtue of savings
—that portion of an individual’s current
income which, by thrift, he sets aside for
future enjoyment and against misfortune
and upon the value of life assurance
to this end. Not only does a policy with
a sound, regular-bonus-paying office pro-
vide a full measure of capital protection
long before it is ever paid for —an advan-
take for which there is no other substitute
—but the capital sum involved keeps on
increasing by annual bonus additions in
both good times and bad. Certainly
investors have better opportunities now
in the way of interest yields, but many
see their old investments standing at much
lower prices than when they bought
them.
Outstanding feature of the latest
accounts of the 73-year-old C.M., one of
Australia’s “big five” mutual life offices,
is continued and healthy development in
all those matters upon which soundness
and progress depend. A record amount
of new business was put on the books—
£10,249,851, up £1,994,017, an increase of
24.1 p.c. The average amount per policy
rose from £801 to £1006, They were all
ordinary contracts written within the
Commonwealth; and behind the buoy-
ancy lies inflation, with which the
Government is coming to grips, growth
of group and industrial-superannuation
assurance, rapid expansion of population,
and home-purchase associated with life
cover.
The year’s income (up £398,896) was
a record, too; —
Income— 1950. 1951.
Premiums, etc £2,043,543 £2,323,669
Interest, divs., etc 674.743 800,113
Surplus sale assets .. .. 23,185 16,585
Total £2,741,471 £3,140,367
Outgo and charges—
Paid to policyholders .. 920,790 928,470
Expenses* 453,093 525,462
Increased actuarial liability 967,888 1,191,670
_ , Total £2,341,771 £2,645,602
Surplus 399,700 494,765
Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
The marked growth in interest earnings,
etc. (up £125,370), which are one of the
chief sources of profit, and therefore
bonuses to policyholders, in a life office,
reflects recent changes in the disposition
of assets. The net effective rate of interest
earned on the mean fund held to meet
claims as they arise was 7s. 9d. p.c.
stronger at £3 19s. 2d. p.c. Considered in
relation to the stringent rate (2i p.c.) at
which policy liabilities are valued, the
margin augurs well for policyholders—
there are no shareholders.
Excluding exes. (£41,624), depreciation
(£23,872) and contribution to the staff
fund (£12,782), exes, made off with 14.2
p.c. of the year’s total income compared
with 13.3 p.c. in 1950. The increase is
moderate when the amount of new busi-
ness and steep rise in salaries and wages,
which are the principal items in the
expense rate, are taken into consideration.
After providing for increased actuarial
liabilities amounting to £1,191,670, th6re
was a surplus of £534,497 (up £99,670)
available for distribution, which was dealt
with in this way;
1949. 1950. 1951.
Surplus earned . . £349,796 £899,700 £494,765*
Brought forward .. 34,293 35,127 39,732
Total surplus .. £384,089 £434,827 £534,497
Bonuses to policyholders 334,806 370,095 431,709
To staff fund . . . . 2,156
To reserves . . .. 12,000
To write down assets..
To contingency reserve
To carry forward .. 35,127 39,732 34,788
* Includes surplus realisation assets, £16,585.
The extra £61,614 distributed among
policyholders provided reversionary
bonuses on an increased and very satis-
factory scale.
There have been big changes in the
investment portfolio, the aim being to
strengthen bonus-paying capacity:
1950. p.c. 1951. p.c.
Com’wealth stock £10,638,401 53.2 £6,805,720 31.1
Local-govt. stock 246,332 1.2 188,678 0.8
Shares and debs. 3,906,072 19.5 6,859,927 31.3
Mortgages . . 3,053,107 15.3 5,946,247 27.2
Loans on policies 754,830 3.8 744,381 3.4
Book debts, etc. 287,264 1.4 321,598 1.5
Cash, etc. .. 195,589 1.0 213,119 1.0
Properties .. 913,199 4.6 816,308 3.7
Total £19,994,794 £21,895,978
The emphasis is now upon equity shares
and debentures (up £2,953,855) and
mortgages (up £2,893,140). The contrac-
tion of £3,832,680 in Commonwealth
stocks suggests non-conversion of matur-
ing issues rather than sale of holdings.
Since the bulk of the co.’s assets consists
of redeemable securities, which, when
they mature, will equal or exceed book-
value, too much attention need not be
paid to current fluctuations in market-
values.
Fairymead Sugar Cos. (Q.)
. To Re- Re-
use., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1946.. 43,749 7 p.c. = 84,475 9,274 813,719
Added replacement reserve, £5809 .. 319,528
1946.. 2,192 5 p.c. = 24,625
Added replacement reserve, £4072.. 301,167
Written off war damage, £IO,OOO .. 291,167
1947.. 54,705 8 p.c. = 39,400 15,305 306,472
Reserves disappear, £913 ~ .. 305,559
Share premiums, £2268 .. ~ 307,827
Added replacement reserve, £29,219.. 337,044
1948.. 78,824 12 p.c. = 59,562 19,262 856,306
Written off war-damage, £IO,OOO .. 346,306
From revaluation assets. £285,475 .. 631,781
Added replacement reserve, £30,279 662,060
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 664,560
1949.. 108,511 12 p.c. = 59,892 48,619 713,179
Added replacement reserve, £14,882 728,011
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 730,511
1950.. 103,083 12 p.c. = 60.000 43,083 773,594
Added replacement reserve, £34,272.. 807,866
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 810,366
1951.. 11,547 8 p.c. = 40,000
Drought and winter frosts, which meant
a lighter crushing of cane and smaller
outturn of raws, together with sharply-
rising costs, have again played havoc
with the profits of this Bundaberg miller
and grower. The co. had a somewhat
similar experience in 1946 ; in 1942 and
1943 floods were the villain of the piece.
The board doesn’t broadcast the co.’s
mill figures, but here is what happened
to the industry as a whole;
t Production Raw Sugar
Home Export
Market, Market, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1950 .. . . 518,000 402,000 920,000
1951* .. .. 575,000 172,000 747,000
* Estimates; final figures not yet available.
In 1950 the average price per ton was
£23 16s. 6d. home market, £32 16s.
export and £27 17s. 2d. overall. Official
figures for 1951 will not be available for
a few weeks yet, but they are expected
to approximate £3O ss. home market and
£34 10s. export. Since the average cost
of production last season was £3l 9s. lOd.
per ton raws, it is obvious that the bulk
of the output was sold at a loss. Equally
obvious is the fact that the volume and
price of the export surplus—the increase
in both has largely taken care of the
upsurge in costs since war ended —have
become important factors in the profit-
earning capacity of millers and growers,
as well as in the figure at which fines are
retailed in the local market.
It was net returns from the co.’s copra
plantation in the Solomon Islands and
from its Hereford stud farm in N. S.
Wales that converted the loss (amount
not stated) on its sugar operations into a
profit of £11,547, equal to 2.3 p.c. on
capital as against 20.6, 21.7, 15.9, 11.1
and 0.4 p.c. back to 1946. The board
lowered the div, from 12 p.c. to 8 p.c.,
making average distribution over the last
five years 10.4 p.c.
Preparation for bigger production to
meet the growing needs of both home
and export markets is reflected in net
additions of £10,520 to estates and
£55,233 to factories, etc;
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital. . £494,500 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities* .. 389,606 275,539 558,172 757.461
Final div. . . 29,892 30,000 80,000 10,000
Estates . . 327,875 330,762 345,533 356,053
Factories, etc. 515,264 837,264 905,374 960,607
Livestock .. 42,414 65,145 83,188 100,447
Stocks, etc. . . 89,343 133,384 186,972 299.266
Book debts . . 260,834 142,942 328,199 322,358
Cash, etc. .. 7,752 9,221 12,500 10,643
Island-rehabili-
tation . . 26,821
* Including provision ior taxation.
Development of the stud-farm venture
shows up the livestock item (up £17,259).
The growth in stocks emphasises the
shocking conditions on the waterfront,
which have delayed shipments of raws to
southern ports.
To help finance still further expansion
of mill capacity, etc., 250,000 new £1
shares were issued at a premium of 10s.
each at end February last. The premium,
which will strengthen reserves by
£125,000, will make an 8 p.c. div. worth
5.3 p.c., or a 12 p.c. distribution worth
8 p.c. on the new shares. The issue will
also lift paid capital to £750,000, on
which 12 p.c. would call for £90,000 (5.4
p.c. on shareholders’ funds) and 8 p.c.
for £60,000 (3,6 p.c. on shareholders’
funds).
An early forecast, subject to seasonal
developments, of course, of the 1952 out-
put of raws is 725,000 tons, well over
half of which is expected to come from
areas north of Townsville. The outlook
for the industry on the demand side is
one of growing pressure, both at home
and abroad. The Central Cane Board
has accordingly lifted individual mill
peaks to an aggregate target figure of
1,100,000 tons raws for 1953. Mean-
while, and particularly for the current
year, profits earned by the raw-sugar
industry will largely depend upon the
speed with which an adequate selling-
price is granted in the home market. In
1946 millers and growers received 62 p.c.
of the retail price; today their proportion
is 53 p.c. The only lasting remedy for
the difficulties of the industry is an end
to inflation and the stabilisation of costs.
In this era of the 5-day 40-hour week
for employees the farmer’s working time
is not regulated by awards or covered by
overtime rates of pay.
The market expresses its confidence in
the Government doing the reasonable
thing and in the long-term prospects of
the industry by pricing the co.’s f.-p. £1
shares at 325. 6d. to return 4.9 p.c. on a
12 p.c. div. basis. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover is 445. 2d.
Brooke’s Lemos, Ltd. (Melb.)
—Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1940 .. 11,301 8 10 8,309 2,992 6,247
1941 .. 6,394 8 7 6,344 50 6,297
1942 .. 10,345 8 8 6,999 3,346 9,643
1943 .. 12,675 8 8 6,999 5,676 15,319
1944 . . 10,025 8 8 6,999 3,026 18,345
Premiums from new issue, £13,000 .. 31,345
1945 .. 18,939 8 10f 12,682 6,257 37,602
1946 ~ 16,556 8 8 11,197 5,359 42,961
1947 .. 16,542 8 8 11,197 5,345 48,306
1948 .. 17,234 8 8 11,198 6,036 54,342
Share premiums, £12,651 .. .. 66 993
1949 . . 19,697 8 8 13,255 6,442 73^435
Revaluation assets, £90,898 .. 164 333
1950 ~ 20,019 8 8 13,356 6,763 171,096
Replacement reserve, £32,350.. .. 203,446
Added Intangibles, £1,998 .. . 201 448
1951 .. 22,795 8 8 13,256 9.539 210.987
* After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £15,008) from
published reserves, f Includes 2 p.c. Victory bonus.
A surprisingly good result considering
the steep rise in costs and the inevitable
dislocation and temporary restriction of
output following the fire which damaged
portion of the co.’s South Melbourne
factory early in 1951. Activities of the
fire-damaged portion, however, were soon
transferred to the co.’s other factory,
which is on Crown land at Port Mel-
bourne, where the board had already
planned greater concentration of manu-
facture in order to reduce overhead.
Demand for the co.’s products—they
consist of a variety of fruit-juices,
cordials, condiments, canned-fruits and
-vegetables, etc. —continued to run ahead
of output. Also the activities of W, H.
Johnson’s food-preserving business in
Sydney (taken over as a subsidiary in
1949 and incorporated in the parent
undertaking last term) expanded. Gross
earnings increased by £83,027, or 55 p.c. :
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Gross profit. £131,455 £148,526 £150,796 £233,823
Less —
Gen. expenses 84,548 99,985 106,983 174,040
Depreciation 14,673 15,174 13,794 14,988
Tax .. 15,000 13,670 10,000 22,000
Net profit . . 17,234 19,697 20,019 22,795
Exes, (up £67,057) took 74.4 p.c. of gross
earnings compared with 70.9 p.c, in 1950
and 41 p.c. in 1945. After making a
generous allowance for taxation (up
£12,000), the net result benefited by
£2776, reaching £22,795. That was
enough to pay the pref. div. (£1758) and
show 14.6 p.c. on ord. capital as against
12.7, 12.4, 13.1 and 12.5 p.c. back to
1947. The div. was kept at 8 p.c., an
annual event (with a 2 p.c. sweetener in
1945) since war interrupted a run of
10 p.c. distributions 10 years ago.
Appearance of a new “plant and build-
ing fire replacement reserve” of £32,350
suggests that assets are still conservatively
valued in the books, despite their re-
valuation and writing-up by £90,898 in
the 1950 term.
Balance-sheet figures reflect incorpora-
tion of the assets and liabilities of the
subsidiary, already referred to, as well as
continued expansion of the business: —
„ 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £165,700 £165,700 £165,700
Mortgage .. 47,500 45,500 98,902
Overdraft .. 108 84,082 86,077
Creditors .. 70,078 68,525 155,361
Tax provision .. 30,981 40,981 41,056
Final divs. .. 12,377 12,377 12,377
Freeholds .. 15,501 35,000 41,960
Leaseholds ,. 82,841 150,450 147,844
Want .. .. 58.650 56,152 93,177
Stocks . . .. 116,407 178,041 322,574
Debtors . . .. 63,557 104,690 100,053
Shares other cos. 57,165 57,165 57,165
Cash, etc. .. 6,058 6.763 7,687
To carry an extra £144,533 of stocks and
add £37,025 to plant and £6960 to free-
holds, the outside debt (excluding tax
provision) was increased by £142,233,
lifting it to £340,340. There was thus
over 18s. of outside money in the business
for every pound belonging to shareholders
when the books closed. So it might not
be long before those on the register
are asked to further assist, subject, of
course, to the consent of Capital Issues
Control.
Since exes, are expanding at a faster
rate than gross earnings, the level of
profits will depend largely upon the level
of turnover, until such time as spiralling
wage-rates can be halted. At 26s. (28s. 9d.
six months ago) the f.-p. £1 ords. return
an attractive 6.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 31s. yield 5.1 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £17 2s. lOd. prefs. and
49s. 4d. ords.
Bloch and Gerber, Ltd. (Sydney)
r - j Dividends x Be-
Jan. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1945 .. 9,889 7 7 5,250 15,910
1946 ,. 12,023 8 8 6,000 21,933
1947 . . 12,660 9 12| 8,324 26,269
1948 .. 21,973 9 15 9,450 38,792
1949 .. 23,590 9 15 12,825 49,557
1950 .. 23,847 9 15 12,825 60,579
1951 .. 31,745 9 17J 14,513 77,811
1962 .. 34,499 9 15 17,887 94,423
Although the board has never gone in
for things in a really big way, share-
holders have done well out of the business
since war ended. Over the last half-
dozen years the ords. have had divs.
averaging 15 p.c., sweetened with new
share-issues totalling £60,000 at par.


DAVIES & COLLISOiN, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
gdf
. , .BUT HE
WE AUS A
NEO-
BAKKERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERH
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2u), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
established 18C8
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOM^
osuLurvAN
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Vatson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams end Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
0. C. GALE (Chairman). I*. VV. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
electric
RE I LAX spray paint unit
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAI NTS— for home, garage,
or factoryl
Has only 2 moving parts I
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
L-:
«##/
■ \ *
Also available
as petrol model
or 32 V. and 100 V. D.C. models for
lighting sets.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Xopp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
J. W. EARNSHAW PTY. IT
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Syfeey —'Phone X 83950
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock anrl Sharebrokers
(Established 1577)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottisli Union House, Eagle Street. Brisbane
gd
fg
dfg
df
It is not necessary to explain that
Dewar s "White Label” Scotch
Whisky is no longer in full supply.
You, of course, appreciate why.
However, although you may not
at present obtain the quantity you
desire, you can be assured that you
will at all times enjoy the same
famous quality, for:
“DEWAR’S NEVER
VARIES”
DEWARS
White Label
SCOTCH WHISKY
DISTILLED AND BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
111 ■ '■
50 Col*
and
p riir Medals
50 Gold
Prize Medal*
to| >i
|RO OUfO***^
“White Label ’
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE. .
Dewar & Sons b
DISTILLERS
net CONTENTS / PINT. 6 FL. OZS. .„ D |
. WHOUY DISTILLED. MATURED AND BLENDED WJJJJIi.
: ' |l| | 'V p
ns
is
m
.
.
:■:
iHHi
isiiiiiiiili
:
k
i
K
m
New Mobilco attachment gives even
greater usefulness . . .
A simple device, inexpensive and easy to fit.
It makes Mobilco the only Mobile Circular
Saw that rips timber in one continuous cut to
any length. The attachment clamps to one
of the stub axles, giving the effect of a longer
leg; so that the whole machine is raised to
straddle logs 20" in diameter. Now you can
run your Mobilco along the log, rip straight
and quickly without effort Think what this means to you when the some machine
will fell timber, cross-cut it to lengths, rip it on the ground into flitches, then con-
tinue the operation on the Mobilco Ripping Bench Attachment to cut planks, battens,
posts, sleepers, pit props, palings and structural timber.
Only Mobilco builds into a complete
fencing and forestry system with . . .
0 Drag Saw 0 Post Hole Digger Attachment
0 Post Boring Attachment 0 Ripping Attachment
0 Saw Bench Attachment
Write now for details.
/\
LCO
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS : 410 WHITEHORSE RD. MITCHAM
VIC. WU 1081 CITY OFFICE : 252 SWANSTON STREET
MELBOURNE CENT. 4799. BRANCHES IN SYDNEY & BRISBANE
MCSO24A
which have been in the nature
of bonuses because of the pre-
mium the old scrip commanded
in the market. The prefs.—
£30,000 in a paid capital of
£131,250 —carry a cumulative 7
p.c., and advance with the ords.
up to 9 p.c. The pref. capital
was put up when the public be-
came interested in 1938 to buy
the freehold premises from
which the co. trades at 46 York-
street, Sydney.
Activities cover a wide range
of imported and locally-manu-
factured electrical and other
equipment for industrial and
domestic use, including Weldon
radio - receivers, washing-
machines, refrigerators, clocks,
etc., and an electrical-servicing
and repair department contri-
butes to the pool, too.
Last term a further “substan-
tial” increase in turnover more
than took care of spiralling wage
and other costs. After allowing
£2384 (up £2299) for deprecia-
tion and £28,500 (up £1500) for
taxation, the net result increased
by £2754, reaching £34,499. The
prefs. got their maximum rate,
and the balance was equal to
31.4 p.c. on ord. capital as against
43, 31.3, 30.9 and 42.8 p.c. back
to 1948. Since trade has lost
some of its former buoyancy,
and money is needed in the
business, the 2\ p.c. bonus sent
out in the previous term was
dropped, leaving the div. at 15
p.c. Reserves thus benefited by
£16,612, lifting them to £94,423,
and there is a considerable inner
reserve in the freehold item.
The co. has leant heavily upon
outsiders to finance recent ex-
pansion of the undertaking:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital . . £97,500 £97,500 £131,250
Mortgages . . 21,600 21,600 21,600
Outside debt and
tax provision 109,760 161,029 261,077
Final divs. . . 7,350 9,038 10,725
Freeholds .. 43,975 45,976 45,449
Fittings .. 1,095 1,091 3,810
Debtors .. 84,740 88,184 138,993
Stocks .. 158,823 220,315 325,772
Cash, etc. . . 8,156 11,49 1 5,051
To meet last term’s growth of
£105,457 in stocks and of £50,809
in book-debts shareholders put
up £33,750 of fresh capital, the
board went to its bankers for
£66,909 and to sundry creditors,
etc., for an extra £33,139. Stocks,
the most vulnerable point in the
co.’s armor, appear at “not more
than cost.” When the books
closed there was approximately
255. of outside money in the
business for every pound be-
longing to shareholders.
As for the current term costs
promise to win the race. How-
ever, the market notes the wide
margin between last term’s earn-
ings and distributions and the
possibility of shareholders being
asked for more (subject to
Capital-Issues consent), and
prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at 10s.
to return 1\ p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. The pound prefs. at
275. 6d. yield 6.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover is
£7 10s. sd. prefs. and 9s. Bd. ords.
Pioneer Scheelite’s tungsten
leases at Hatches Creek,
Centralia, taken over from
Imperial Gold, are opening up
nicely at shallow depth. Some
20ft. of driving on the 88ft. level
has disclosed high-grade ore
over a width of Bin,, with good
values still showing in the face.
A first crushing has been
arranged at the local battery for
the end of this month. The co.’s
own electrically-operated 500-
ton-a-month mill is not expected
to be ready until toward the end
of the year. Meanwhile the
main shaft is to be sunk to the
block of ore between 200 ft. and
300 ft. which, if the diamond-
drill turns out to be right, should
be both bigger and richer than
the stuff in the upper levels. The
market for the co.’s ss. shares
paid to 3s. recently strengthened
from 4s. to ss.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOOTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO THOMAS ALFRED TARGETT late of Primbee
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that HENRIETTA
ELSIE TARGETT has filed a petition for divorce
No. 1728 of 1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
on or before the 29th day of July 1952 at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney.
A copy of the petition may be had without charge
from J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, 116 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The afternoon party given by Dame
Mary Daly at Menzies’ had a dual pur-
pose : to thank the committee who helped
her organise the Red Cross Ball, and to
hand over to Colonel Allan Spowers,
chairman of the Victorian division of
Red Cross, a cheque for £l4OO, the
amazing proceeds of that well-organised
function. That it would be a financial
success was assured, for all expenses for
it had been met with money raised from
various affairs. Representing the Red
Cross Victorian division at the party were
Mrs. Eccles McKay, Mrs. Louise Read,
Miss Sybil Irving and Leon Stubbings.
Three of the ticket-secretaries were
present, Mesdames Jim Peters, A. Santo-
spirito and W. Calanchini. Other guests
who also worked hard for the success of
the ball were Mesdames A. A. Lord, T. F.
Walsh, F. D. Funston, F. Cincotta
and V. Cahill.
The notorious apathy of Australians
towards the elsewhere-recognised gifts of
any compatriot has nowhere been
exemplified more glaringly then in the
case of John Brownlee. The baritone,
who is good enough to star in the Paris
and Metropolitan opera-houses, had
small audiences in this city, though his
second recital had more support than the
first, and those present at it left him in
no doubt about their opinion of his voice
and artistry. The singer, too, was most
generous with his encores. Mrs. Brown-
lee wore a short black pleated frock
covered by a hip-length mink cape. The
baritone’s sister, Jessie Brownlee, also
wore black. Another sister, Mrs. J.
Brunton, was with her husband and their
schoolgirl daughters, Cheryl and
Janeanne. A pretty blue theatre hat was
worn by Mrs. Frank Tait with her dyed-
ermine coat. Kathleen Goodall wore a
mink coat and small deep brown hat out-
lined with pink faille. Mrs. Robert
Hamilton’s parma-violet crepe dinner-
gown was silver starred at the neckline.
Under a full-length fur coat Mrs. Guy
Bakewell wore a frock of deep-wine crepe.
Mrs. A. T. Smithers was gowned in silver
grey brocade.
June 4 will be a memorable night in
this city, for the Regent Theatre will be
floodlit, a band will play outside the
theatre, and flags, flowers and bunting will
decorate the foyers for the Melbourne
premiere of “Kangaroo.” The Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, Lady Brooks and a
party from Government House will be in
the official group. Generous donors have
bought tickets for servicemen in Red
Cross convalescent homes, and they will
see this Twentieth Century Fox film.
Mrs. S. Baillieu Myer is playing a big part
in the organisation of the night. Ticket-
secretaries are Marion McPherson and
Heather Menzies. Treasurer is Mr.
Norman Shepherd. Others who are doing
much for the success of the premiere are
Lady McConnan, Lady Snow, Mrs. F. W.
Hiring, Mrs. H. Creswick and Mrs.
Gordon Darling.
A very pleasant little ceremony took
place at the Toorak home of Mr. and
Mrs. Louis Nelken when the host handed
to Mrs. T. C. Rentoul for Y.W.C.A. a
cheque for £736 and one to Sir Norman
Mighell for £726 for the British Memorial
Fund. This money was raised at the
loan exhibition of antique silver, china,
glass and furniture held some weeks ago
in the Town Hall. Members of the
organising committee, of which Louis
Nelken was president, included Lady
Murdoch, whose unusual grey-and-black
Persian-lamb coat was worn with a small
black hat; Mrs. Henry Stebbins, wife of
the Consul-General for the U.S.A.;
Mrs. Harry Bundock, whose husband.
Brigadier Bundock, was responsible for
a great deal of the cataloguing of the
antiques on loan ; Mrs. Douglas Stephens,
whose smart black cocktail frock was
worn with a matching hat finished with
veiling; Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, wearing
a beautiful hat, which featured a tiny
black velvet crown and a shallow brim
draped with white ospreys sprinkled
with diamente, with a black frock
and mink stole ; Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald, who
covered her frock with a dyed-ermine
coat and whose small hat was of black
velour ; Mrs. F. W. Hiring, whose hat had
a brim of peacock-blue and black-striped
faille; and Mesdames G. I. Stevenson
and S. Baillieu Myer.
There was no lack of candor when
Maurice Dowd opened at the Kozminsky
Gallery an exhibition of paintings by
Leslie Sands. He confessed he knew very
little of art; the artist, quite as frank,
said he had never had a lesson in paint-
ing. Very excited at her husband’s first
exhibition of his work, Mrs. Sands was
attractive in a hip-length swing-coat of
black-and-white-check tweed, a grey suit
and a black velvet pillbox cap. A smart
grey-and-white-striped wool jacket and
plain grey skirt were worn by Mrs.
Maurice Dowd with a large black felt
sailor-hat. The artist’s mother, Mrs. Roy
Sands, matched her navy coat with a hat
trimmed with winter-white ribbon. Those
who came to the opening-day ceremony
included Mrs. Julian Fink and Mrs.
Guy Herbert. Mrs. Herbert (who, with
her husband, came up from Geelong)
wore a teal-blue wool jacket-suit and
London-tan felt cloche. Singer Joyce
Macartney topped her dyed-ermine coat
with a citron-yellow melusine cloche,
Mrs. F. S. Bennell’s choice was a black
caracul coat with cyclamen feather
toque, and Mrs. N. Witty’s grey wool
coat had groups of black-and-grey
circular stripes from collar to hem, with
white-trimmed grey hat.
Ben Cockram, deputy High Commis-
sioner for the U.K., was the guest-speaker
introduced by Sir Owen Dixon, president
of E.-S.U., at the Union’s monthly
luncheon at the Victoria Palace. His
wise and witty talk concerned the purity
and pitfalls of the English language, and
an American and Harvard graduate,
Cyrus Townsend Brady, Jnr., was chosen
to say the things every member present
would have liked the opportunity of
saying. Mr. Cockram was accompanied
by his wife and daughter Gail, who is a
student at Canberra High School and
intends doing a university course later.
In the course of his talk Mr. Cockram
said he had a special liking for the
E.-S.U., for he had met his wife in the
U.S.A. when both were travelling on
E.-S.U. travel scholarships. With Sir
Owen was Lady Dixon; the U.K.
Information representative, John Hayden,
was accompanied by Mrs. Hayden.
Lady Robinson, smart in a red-and-
black tweed suit and a black beret, was
one of the committee on duty at the
luncheon. Duties of ushering guests to
seats were shared also by Mrs. Charles
Bacon and Mary Paterson, Guests
included Mrs. Douglas Stewart, Mrs. T.
J. Ryan, Mrs. W. Ree, Mrs. Aubrey Gib-
son, Mrs. L. Tewkesbury, a member of
the American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital, Mrs. Essington
Lewis, Mrs. Gerald Bacon and Mrs.
Graham Egerton.
Pamela Ann Davey, pictured here, is
as talented as she is attractive. The
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James Davey,
of the Taroona Hotel, Tasmania, she was
educated at Le Colombier in this city.
In the teen-age quest for the Women’s
Hospital Appeal she was nominated by
the Pilgrim Theatre, whose directress,
Maie Hoban, says Pamela has great
dramatic possibilities. Her last appear-
ance at the Pilgrim Theatre was in
Coward’s “Blithe Spirit.”
There were a few spills at the fences,
and the fox proved very wary at the first
winter meet of the Oaklands Hunt Club.
Watching the riders was the wife of the
deputy-master of Oaklands, Mrs. Keith
Campbell, and riders present in the role
of spectators included Mrs. Michael
Clarke, Wanda Shilliday, who hunts with
the Melbourne club, and whose natty out-
fit was a red plaid suit with primrose-
toned waistcoat, and Mrs. John Cox. Mrs.
Douglas Faulkner was there to watch her
daughter Wendy and son Douglas follow
the hounds, and others were Mrs. A. H.
Tolley, whose son Richard is a member
of Oaklands, Mrs. Bill Bamford, Mrs.
A. E. Shilliday, Mrs. Currie Johnson,
Mrs. Laurie Nobbs, Mrs. Peter Watkins,
Mrs, Bill Magennis and Mrs. Constance
Day and her small daughter Deanna.
From Sydney
The Leo Burings will celebrate their
golden-wedding anniversary this week
with a dinner at Usher’s for 44 guests.
Both the Burmgs are keen gourmets, so
it is not surprising that the said dinner
sounds absolutely luscious. After the
hors d’oeuvres will be oyster cocktails
served in the heart of avocado-pears.
Next a chicken-soup enhanced by
whipped-up egg and vermicelli, then
schnapper baked in white wine with
tomato and onion. Main course is roast
baby chicken (one to each person), fol-
lowed by Bombe Sabayon, a specialty
of Usher’s chef, and black coffee. Add
to this the appropriate wines (including
pink champagne) and you have a dinner
worth waiting 50 years for. Mr. and
Mrs. Buring were married at St. Mark’s
Church of England at Penwortham (S. A.)
in 1902. Members of the family present
to celebrate the golden anniversary will
be Miss Blanka Buring, of Avalon, Mr.
and Mrs, Jack Angus (Adelaide), and
Mr. Ralph Buring,
On Thursday and Friday there will be
two sherry parties given by Mr. Buring’s
co-directors in honor of the Golden
Wedding. There will be about 80 guests
at each, many of them, of course,
interested in winegrowing. The hosts will
be Mr. and Mrs. Bowen Pain, Mr. and
Mrs. Colin Gray and Mr. and Mrs.
William Hildebrandt.
This is actress Aileen Britton, who
does a stalwart job of entertaining in the
Independent Theatre’s new production
“It All Takes Time.” She plays the part
of “Dulce,” a Sally-in-our-alley type of
character, and produces more collo-
quialisms to the square inch than a
dictionary of slang. This is the first time
that Miss Britton, who is well-known to
theatre and radio audiences, has been
seen in this type of part, and she certainly
puts her whole heart into it. The play,
by Australian John Watson, has its
moments of laughter, but is rather wordy
and lacking in action. The decor by
Jennifer Hocking is bright and stimulat-
ing, and the performances of the New
Australians in the cast were quite com-
mendable. Photograph by Montgomery
Dunn.
The committee had taken a great deal
of trouble with the decorations at the
Rotary Ball (29th Division) held at the
Troc. on Friday night, and achieved a
very unusual effect with the symbolic
wheels turning at intervals round the
room and lit with alternating lights. The
ball was a very happy one, and must have
been a great financial success, for there
were nearly 1000 dancers present, and an
anonymous donor gave a cheque for
£lOOO during the night towards the funds
of the Crippled Children’s Association,
for which the ball was held. Dr. T. J.
Biggs and Mrs. Biggs welcomed the
guests, assisted by Mr. and Mrs. Leo
Rigby. Eleven debs were presented to
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress,
including Ann Redford, wearing a net
dress with an unusual flounced skirt bor-
dered with organdie frills. Among the
many lovely deb. dresses one also noticed
Jann Munroe’s nylon-net dress with its
ruffled bodice and little ruffled cape. Mr.
and Mrs. Greg Kater were in the official
party, Mrs. Kater looking very charming
in a white organdie dress printed with
huge black coin-spots. Noted that Mr.
and Mrs. Colin Hudson’s party was one
of the gayest there.
The V.A.s have made a special effort
to support the Sydney premiere of
“Kangaroo,” proceeds of which will go
to Red Cross, for they have already
bought 380 seats. In addition, it
is reported that all the seats at
£2 2s. have been sold. There are,
however, still plenty for sale at £1 Is.
The premiere is to be held at the Regent
Theatre on June 4, and will have quite
a Hollywood atmosphere. The Governor
will be there with daughter Elizabeth.
Army searchlights will light up the
theatre front and the Eastern Command
band will play while Movietone News
photographs the arrival of distinguished
guests. On the whole it should be well
worth seeing, and, besides, it’s for a good
cause.
Mr. O. McL. Falkiner received 130
guests at a preview of the Sheep Show
mannequin parade at the Sydney Show-
ground last Saturday, when some lovely
wool dresses, sportswear and coats were
displayed on a stage expertly decorated
with wool of all kinds. Some precise
members of the audience thought that
the designs of brown rams were not true
to nature, but it was pointed out that
these were black rams scoured. Among
guests were the Mayoral couple, and Mr.
and Mrs. Sam Hordern, Dr. and Mrs.
Rex Money, Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Wilson,
Mr. and Mrs. R. J. F. Boyer, Claudia
Beazley and her fiance, Geoffrey Moses,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses and Mr.
Eduarde Echargue, Consul-General for
the Argentine, with Mrs. Echargue. The
parade was followed by a cocktail-party.
The clothes shown at the Wool Parade
were from Curzon’s, and featured particu-
larly the beautiful pleated skirts which
are so necessary to the fashion-conscious
this season. Glitter on the cocktail- and
dinner-dresses was conspicuous, sequins,
rhinestones and beading lighting up
nearly all the dresses. There is no doubt
that a wool dress for dinner is the
answer to the cold shivers silken fabrics
give. In sportswear the important note
is tapered legs to slacks and even pedal-
pushers.
Pink for redheads used to be taboo,
but it is noticeable that at nearly every
parade of late the titian-haired models
are given at least one pink dress or coat
to wear. They are almost invariably
successful, too.
Anyone who has books by Australian
authors to donate to the Bush Book Club
will be very popular with the club, for
there has been a greatly-increased demand
for this type of book during the year,
according to the secretary. Miss K. Ray-
mond, at the annual meeting last week.
Informative books about Australia were
also being asked for by New Australians,
said Miss Raymond. Sir John Medley
was the guest speaker at the meeting, and
drew attention to the perils of television,
which he said has a “quite devilish
attraction” for the young. According to
a survey in Boston, 60 p.c. of school-
children have their meals in front of the
television-set, and 70 p.c. watch television
for 3j to four hours a day and more
in the weekend.
Sir John, with his entertaining speech,
kept the audience a-simmer with amuse-
ment, but he brought the house down
with the story of the young man who
once said to him: “You know, I’m a
great reader, but if there’s one thing I
can’t read it’s a book! ”
Heaven Knows, Mister Allison, the new
novel by Sydneysider Charles Shaw, has
a rather unusual title which gets some
tangled interpretations according to
bookshop attendants. Favorite version is
No Heaven for Mr. Allison (which may
or may not be appropriate, considering
that the book is about a U.S. Marine and
a Canadian nun on an island in the
Pacific). You have to read the book to
find out.
A new book on table-decoration from
America (seen at the American Infor-
mation Library) has wakened this Letter
up to the possibilities of fruit, vegetables,
wood, coal and coke, etc., as means
towards making the dinner-table sparkle
in the absence of flowers. Patricia
Easterbrook, the author, uses, for in-
stance, in one of her more conservative
arrangements, bananas, lemons and canna
leaves. In another are gardenias, a lump
of coal (oiled to make it glisten), iris-
leaves, a broad-veined leaf, and gar-
denias. She even makes an arrangement
of new, polished potatoes with pink
pearls, a pink satin tablecloth and wooden
candlesticks to link up with the potatoes.
She suggests (but does not illustrate)
onions, especially ones that have sprouted,
with cabbage-leaves which have been
soaked in water to remove the smell. In
her designs orchids repose in egg-plants,
Christmas-trees are made from old
umbrellas, and “caulies” at last rank as
flowers. It seems an excellent idea,
because all the designs are really lovely.
The greengrocer’s window and the
kitchen cupboards will henceforth take
on a new significance.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Airing a sky-blue suit in Melbourne,
F. W. Fischer, export-manager for the
Mack Truck Corporation of America, is
nere to supervise the installation of a mil-
lion pounds’ worth of heavy road-equip-
ment for the S.E.C.’s brown-coal projects
at Yallourn and Morwell and to push for-
ward plans for a factory in Victoria. One
of his monsters, the biggest thing at the
recent Motor Show at the Exhibition, was
posed amongst the classical statuary at
the entrance. His organisation began in
1898 with the Mack brothers building
trucks in their backyard. When the late
war came these were found to be ideal for
the Western Desert. A pressman who
asked him at a conference in Melbourne
anent the preparations his co. was making
for the next (atomic) war got the answer
“Waal, all our buses running out of New
York have stretchers under the seat, and
if they are hit with a blast the windows
all fall outwards.” Having visited all the
South American countries, Fischer is next
off to Turkey.
“Dusty” Rhoades (alias Captain
Rodney Rhoades, D.S.C., R.A.N.) has
tried hard to live up to the maxim of
“once a destroyerman always a destroyer-
man,” but apparently he knows a bit too
much about running an air-station. He
left Albatross, the air-base at Nowra
(N.S.W.), for England, to put in a year
or so back with his chief love, boss of
the famed Nore Destroyer Flotilla.
Before that he had driven destroyer
Vendetta' through her Mediterranean
travail, in and out of Tobruk and the
Greece and Crete affairs. At the end of
the war he had a later model. Quick-
match. Now, with the ribbon of
Chevalier of the Order of Dannebrog on
his breast (awarded when he escorted the
Danish King and Queen to England last
year), he returns to Albatross. But there
are four new destroyers building.
Back from his three years’ post-
graduate work at Edinburgh and London
Universities and hospitals, lan Collins,
of Killara (N.S.W.), made the homeward
voyage as m.o. of the Adelaide Star. Be-
cause of the watersiders’ ban on overtime,
the ship was anchored for a week in Fre-
mantle’s Gage Roads, in what West-
ralians now call the Rottnest Queue;
but this was far from the worst the
medico has suffered from the sea. He
was the sole survivor of a disaster off the
N.S.W. coast in 1945, when the launch
Robin May was wrecked, and five newly-
graduated medical men lost their lives.
The survivor was picked up by a collier
from Newcastle, after he had been in the
sea for 10 hours with a broken leg.
A great shipmate passes:
Alan Anderson, G.8.E., who died in London
recently, was a leading member of the great
Anderson-Geddes family of shipowners, scientists
and organisers who have played great parts in
the transport life of the British Commonwealth
during the past century and whose fortunes
began with the purchase of a French prize
at the time of the Napoleonic wars. A family
partnership founded the Orient Company in
1878 in conjunction with Green and Co. Alan,
one of the generation born in the ’seventies,
was son of the head of the firm and of the
famous Dr. Elizabeth Garrett Anderson, a
brilliant woman medical pioneer and the first
woman in England to obtain a doctorate of
medicine, He was a magnificent athlete in his
youth, stroked the Trinity four and eight at
Cambridge, and might have made his fame in
games if he had not cared more for work.
He joined the family firm in 1897 and became
a partner in 1900. In World War I, though
he volunteered for active service, he was placed
in a reserved category, and acted for the Board
of Trade in various intricate matters connected
with the blockade and wheat supplies. He was
a member of the Balfour Commission to
Washington and helped to set up control of
wheat in the U.S. and Canada. He later became
Controller at the Admiralty, and a director
of the Bank of England, of which, for a period,
he was deputy-chairman. He was also for a
year High Sheriff of the County of London.
After the war his interests expanded following
the amalgamation of Andersons and Greens,
and he became a director of the P. and O.
and British India companies and of the Suez
Canal Company. When World War II reached
its height he was made chairman of the British
Railway Executive and Controller of Railways,
and held that job throughout the war. Always
progressive, he saw the Australian trade and
ships in it grow out of recognition in the more
than 50 years during which the tiny 6000-ton
vessels of the ’nineties became the Orions
and the Oronsays of the 1940’5. He visited
Australia frequently, and had hundreds of
friends here; and he was one of the Common-
wealth’s most eager publicity agents abroad.
Medical science owed a lot to his patronage
and help, and both he and his elder son were
pioneer workers for seamen’s welfare in the
Port of London.
Alfred Edward Daff, who began his
cinema-career behind a projector at
South Melbourne, is now a director of
Universal. Joining the co. as a booker
and suburban salesman, he worked up to
managing-director of Japanese Universal
when Nippon went movie-conscious.
He’s 50.
John M. Anderson, of Brighton (Vic.),
becomes, at 37, the youngest-ever presi-
dent of the Liberal-and-Country party.
A private in War 11, he served with the
6th Commando Company and the Ist
Australian Paratroop Battalion, got his
commission after the Buna battle, and
wounds which kept him two years in hos-
pital. Assistant general-manager of a
manufacturing firm, like his predecessor
of the same name (W, H. Anderson), he
has Scotch blood in him.
“Macnell”: I don’t know what Colonel
Jack Keith Murray (who will hand in the
New Guinea Administratorship next
month) covered on inspection-tours of
New Guinea, but he covered, on foot,
a good slice of Bougainville. The last
time I saw the see-it-for-yourself Adminis-
trator was at a cloud-top village south
of Kieta. With his police-chief and
public-health officer, we had clawed
4000 ft. up through rain-weeping forests
on a squelching goat-track to investigate
reports of t.b, in the village. Far below
over the waving carpet of green, frigate
Condamine lay, a grey model. We were
cooked; Murray pulled his soaked
trousers from his socks, put on his sodden
coat and marched into the village as
though he’d come from across the road.
He was 58 then. An easily approachable,
quietly observant man, serious, short and
moustached, he had been Professor of
Agriculture at Queensland’s University
for close on 20 years before becoming,
in 1945, provisional Administrator of
Papua and New Guinea, deleting the
“provisional” in 1949. Military service
in War II took in command of the
Darling Downs 25th Battalion (it was at
Milne Bay), and several important train-
ing posts in Northern Command. Both
he and his wife are Agricultural B.Sc.’s.
Ernie Old, the Melbourne cyclist, is to
be guinea-pig to a Sydney professor
who wants to find out, with a bicycle
ergometer, the physical reasons for
Ernie’s extraordinary endurance. The
first test is a run on his pushbike to
Sydney and back, some 1100 miles, Ernie
doesn’t think the feat a bit unusual,
though he’s seven years past the allotted
span.
“R.N.C.”: The “Border-Watch,” Mt.
Gambier (S.A.), has entered its 92nd year
of publication. Founded by brothers
A. F. and J. P. D. Laurie, who were
joined three years later by John Watson,
the paper still retains its family-owner-
ship, with C. H. Laurie and J. R. Watson.
It published some of A. L. Gordon’s
earliest work when the poet lived at.
Dingley Dell, in Port McDonnell, the
adjacent seaport.
Thousands of Queenslanders saw their
State’s industrial potential through the
Industries Fair put on at the Exhibition
Ground (War II Diggers will remember
their own industry in the same arena).
Here presented, relaxing after four weeks’
bustle, is the man who managed the
show —Lionel McCray, chairman of the
fair-executive. Management and manu-
LosMS^'
McCRAY. of the Industries Fair.
facture come easily to him —being vice-
president of the Brisbane division of the
Australian Institute of Management and
president of the Queensland Chamber of
Manufactures, Managing an unpredict-
able iron on Royal Queensland links is
his pet worry, managing to help Queens-
land’s spastic kiddies his chief delight.
Horace Petty, A.1.C.A., B.Com. (Mel-
bourne University), one of the Liberal
candidates for pre-selection when the
Toorak seat becomes vacant through the
resignation of Ted Kennedy, Q.C., knows
more about that locality than most. As
proprietor of Toorak’s biggest news-
agency and mayor of Prahran, Petty has
done much service in both divisions. His
political activities began with the Young
Nationalists 20 years ago ; he was the
founder of the Liberal Speakers’ Group,
a State-wide Liberal organisation training
speakers for all branches of the party.
A War II Digger in the Armored Divi-
sion, chairman of the municipalities’ sub-
committee of the Shrine of Remembrance,
he’s a life-governor of Royal Melbourne
and president of the Victorian Authorised
Newsagents’ Association. In 1937 he was
circulation-manager of the “Argus” under
Errol Knox, before that paper became
the—er —“new” “Argus.”
At the international congress on
accounting in Great Britain next month
Australian figure-men will be represented
by Melbournite A. A. Fitzgerald, who’ll
deliver a commentary on one of the
papers. This won’t take much figuring —-
he’s delivered papers at the Australian
Congresses in 1935 and 1949, as well as
the 1950 New Zealand convention. In
charge of accounting at Melbourne Uni-
versity, he has published several texts,
the latest of them, written with L. A.
Schumer, is now coming off the presses.
Besides chairing the Grants Commission,
Fitzgerald served on the Capital Issues
Board, holds accounting and cost-
accounting degrees, is a Bachelor of Com-
merce, and edits the “Australian
Accountant.” T. A. Hiley, chartered
accountant and leader of the Queensland
Liberals, is to represent that State’s
figurers.
CONDUCTOR CASTRO, caught by
Counihan at vigorous work in Melbourne.
The first research-scholarship for
nuclear physics awarded to Common-
wealth graduates from the Lord Ruther-
ford memorial-fund goes to Erik Max-
well Gunnersen, of Balwyn, Melbourne.
Twenty-three, dux of Camberwell
Grammar in 1946, he won his M.Sc. at
Melbourne University this year, as well
as two other research-scholarships —the
Dixon and the Kernot. Something of a
prodigy of scholarship, he goes to Claren-
don Laboratory, Oxford, to be guided by
Mr. Churchill’s scientific adviser. Lord
Cherwell.
The Institution of Engineers of Aus-
tralia, through its president, Vivian Brain,
has presented John Burnell with the
P. N. Russell Medal (the institution’s
highest award), “for a notable contribu-
tion to the science and practice of
engineering.” Burnell is technical director
of Thompsons (Castlemaine), Ltd. In
World War I he was staff-officer to the
chief-engineer of the Australian Corps,
and was awarded M.C. and Croix de
Guerre. He presides over the Castlemaine
Art Gallery and is a trustee of the
National Gallery of Victoria.
“Pawang”: Eric Edwards and Kenneth
Brunton are two young men with B.A.
degrees and diplomas of education who
have just graduated brilliantly from the
University of Melbourne. Both want to
teach or coach and have applied for jobs
to Departments of Education throughout
Australia. The departments are suffering
an acute shortage of teachers, but the
young men have got nothing but refusals.
True, they are both blind —but three of
the leading teachers of music in Mel-
bourne are blind, and there have been
some who’ve been thought worthy to be-
come legislators. It looks like official
obscurantism. The departments probably
have a regulation about it.
Some people think Melbourne brewers
don’t brew enough beer; others think they
brew too much. Criticism from either
party doesn’t shake the conviction of
R. F, G. Fogarty, the big man here de-
picted, that the blame is not referable to
the brewers. As chairman of the Vic-
torian Associated Breweries, with his
headquarters in the Carlton Brewery, he
cites these figures: In 1939 the popula-
FOGARTY, of Associated breweries.
tion of the State was 1,878,480, ana by
1951 it had risen to 2,269,291 —a 20 p.c.
increase. In 1939 his brewery distributed
12,128,130 gallons of draught beer, and
in 1951 the gallonage had risen to
32,861,592 —an increase which hardly
indicates that the breweries had fallen
down on their job. During the same
period, however, hotel licences fell from
1706 to 1666, so that Bung is trying to
serve at least 20 p.c. more customers 170
p.c. more beer with 40 fewer points of
service. Hence the grog-swill; but to make
matters worse for drinkers. Building Con-
trol has put an absolute ban on the ex-
tension of bar-accommodation, while
Licensing Board and Building Control are
at loggerheads on maintenance and re-
pair work, so that L.B. can order im-
provements and B.C. can refuse to permit
them, Fogarty comes from Queensland,
where he was general-manager of the
Northern Australian Breweries. An artil-
leryman in War I, he became g.m. of
Carlton and United in 1916.
After half a century ministering the
Anglican flock in mainly-Presbyterian
Otago (New Zealand), for 18 years of
which he was Bishop of the Dunedin
diocese, W. A. R. Fitchett, at 80, reckons
he’s had enough. Bom in Christchurch,
polished at Cambridge to M.A. and 8.A.,
he returned to the vicarship at Dunstan,
Otago, the prelude to his 50 years in
that city. His father was Dean Fitchett,
a well-known columnist in his day; his
uncle was the Deeds That Won the
Empire Fitchett.
A young housewife who had to run a
home single-handed, cook, clean, wash-
up and iron for four children, cut their
school-lunches and then go to school
to bring twins home, would be thought
to have enough to do without hankering
after the mantle of Edgar Wallace. Mrs.
June Wright, of Armadale, Melbourne,
has to do all this but finds time to write
mystery novels, the third of which has
just reached Melbourne from the London
publishers. The Devil’s Caress, it s placed
at a Victorian coastal resort. Another,
Murder in the Telephone Exchange, was
placed in a well-known Melbourne
suburban post-office.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 58, John Wilson Scott Fell,
chairman of directors of Interstate Steamships
Pty., Ltd., Maitland Main Collieries Pty., Ltd.,
Scott Fell Pty., Ltd., and Maitland Mam, and
a councillor of Northern Collieries, Ltd For
more than 20 years president of the British
Empire Union in Sydney, he was also president
of the Sunshine Club of N. S. Wales.
In Heidelberg Military Hospital (Melbourne),
Frank Spry Lodge, whose firm built the Shrine
of Remembrance. A Gallipoli man, M.M. and
M C he joined his brothers after that war to
form the firm of Lodge Brothers, builders and
masons.
At 72, Louis Henry Morris, who, born at
Ballarat, returned there in 1914, manager of the
city’s Commonwealth Bank. Before that
appointment he had served against Kruger;
after it he closed his accounts to help deal
with the Kaiser, serving with the 13th Light
Horse at Gallipoli and in France. Back m
Ballarat after a period managing an English
branch, he filled most of the chairs of the
bank to an inspectorship, from which he retired
in 1942. Widely-liked in club and military
circles.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 74, Len McKay, an
old-time athletic champion who twice won the
Australian and New Zealand pole-vault. Broad-
jump, shot-putt and hop, step and jump were
other sports in which he was a champion. As
New Zealand’s greatest all-round sport he once
held the Lord Ranfurly medal.


NOW you con
CASTRATE
& TAIL
SO mster with the
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
AUTOMATIC
RING LOADER
(PATT.APP. No. 315231 /49)
for use with Elastrator instrument and Elastrator ringr.
Castration and Tailing the Elastrator way is already famous
for its efficiency. Now it is quicker, even cleaner than before.
Order your Elastrator Automatic Ring Loader now from your
usual Elastrator supplier.
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station Agents
Chemists and Stores.
PRODUCT OF ELASTR ATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD
B 2 JS2.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
sßlsSli
MS
mm
V '-\LL
Hi
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
"Phenovis” Worm Remedy
t
%
\
*/S
v
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
gdf
JPHE.BX.BO
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
Cost of Pen-fattening.
“Oxo”: When he visits
America shortly, president W. A.
Gunn, of Graziers’ Federal
Council, will look into the
economics of crop- and grain-
fattening of cattle. Australian
cattlemen are continually urged
to produce more, and the
quickest way to do it is by grain-
and crop-fattening, but prices
under the U.K. long-term meat
agreement are based on a grass
economy and Queensland cattle-
men have found grain- and crop-
fattening unprofitable.
Most crop - fattening in
Queensland has been done in
the south-east. There Harvey
Price, of Warwick, says it’s use-
less to build up cattle numbers
and then lose them in the next
drought. It war. not the number
of cattle runring in Australia
which counted so much as the
quantity tv beef they produced
per IOOG-nead, and in that phase
of their industry Australia was
a long way behind the United
Kingdom and the United States,
said Price. If Gunn can get
workable figures from U.S.
fatteners to put beside existing
costs of fattening in Australia,
the Governments concerned can
be shown that grain- and crop-
fattening here are out of the
question under the export prices
of the meat agreement.
Kikuyu Grass.
“C.R.”: When we took over
our few neglected acres near
North Richmond (N.S.W.) the
cottage was surrounded by a
tangled mass of kikuyu, its
strong growth a legacy of the
late-summer rains of 1951. Vari-
ous backbreaking attempts to
control the mess by digging were
mostly abortive, so we put up
with the eyesore until late
winter, when, after a few weeks’
dry weather, I happened to drop
a few matches into it.
Although there was still a lot
of green through the grass it
burnt quite well; enough to en-
courage me to try to shove the
lawnmower through the remain-
ing growth. It was about the
hardest shoving I’ve ever done,
but finally we got something that
looked like a lawn ; in fact, after
the light spring rains the grass
was a picture. We kept the grass
closely shaved until the dry spell.
By Christmas our lawn (no
water for hosing) had become a
fine carpet of crackly dry
material lying in wait for a care-
lessly-thrown cigarette-butt, so
that we had to chip it all over
and rake it up before we were
satisfied that we had got rid of
the fire risk. Now we have good
lawns again after the rains, and,
with an improved water-supply.
hope to keep them green
through the next dry spell.
Kikuyu as a firebreak! I’d
sooner have the ground sprinkled
with a layer of kapok.
Dingo Damage.
‘Outback”: At a conference
at Longreach (Q.) graziers from
all parts of the State talked of
dingoes. A Boulia man, J. G.
Schofield, said dingoes were eat-
ing 84,000 beef-calves in Queens-
land annually, although the dogs
were generally reported as a
menace only to sheep. Schofield
read a letter from A. Milson,
general-manager of Springvale,
Cluny and Diamantina Lakes,
in which he estimated his calf
losses in good seasons at not
less than 10 to 12 per cent., and
in drought seasons probably 18
per cent.
From January 1, 1951, to
March 31 last the three stations
had registered only two inches
of rain, and he estimated calf
losses on the three properties in
that period at not less than 1500
or 1600, though they conducted
n extensive dingo-poisoning
campaign.
Schofield said the dingo was
threatening both wool- and beef-
production and thus the national
economy. An increased price
per scalp was one practical way
of checking the pests.
While the State Lands Depart-
ment was commended for aerial-
baiting inaccessible mountainous
dog-breeding country, there was
mixed opinion on its effective-
ness. For one thing no one col-
lects the scalps—and it was
thought that the money spent on
aerial-baiting would be better
spent on an increased to
encourage station-hands and
others to go after dingoes.
Control measures decided
upon included: (a) a levy to
raise the finance to take over
existing far-western barrier-
fences, as South Australia and
New South Wales had obtained
benefit from border-fences ; (b)
raising of a loan of £lOO,OOO by
the Co-ordinating Board for an
immediate attack on the dingo,
and an increase in the bonus
from £1 to £3 per scalp ; (c) dis-
continuance of aerial-baiting
and more baits to be supplied to
local authorities; ( d) steps by
the association to have the 80
per cent, cut on imports of
dingo-traps removed, and (e) a
levy not exceeding 2d. per sheep
annually in the benefited area
for the construction of a barrier-
fence, where required, to join
up with the N.S.W. border-
fence.
A Pool of Knowledge.
“S.”: The migratory bee-
man no sooner has his hives off
his truck that he scouts for new
nectar-bearing trees. With petrol
at over four-bob a gallon the
less his tyres turn the better, yet
turn they must if new fields are
to be located.
His knowledge and/or experi-
ence tells him that a certain belt
of eucalypts at this time of year
is about to bloom. It may be
20 or 200 miles away. He sets
off in his truck to find out if the
trees have really “busted open,”
if they’ve shed their buds sub-
sequent to his last visit, if the
blooms are yielding nectar suit-
able to the bees, and if there is a
hive-site available. These
questions answered, he returns
to his apiary and goes about his
work until it is time to move on.
To journey great distances to
find out such things is bad
management. In -terms of costs
of tyres, parts and petrol,
multiplied by the number of bee-
men doing it in the 500 miles
radius of a blossom-belt, it puts
a burden of expense on the in-
dustry which few industries
could stand.
The remedy is simple. A
weekly paper could be chosen
I bin breedin 'em special for football jerseys."
(the M.O.L. page is a “natural”),
and each week voluntary in-
formation concerning each
locality be sent to a selected
sorting-point—the office of the
“Australian Bee Keeper,” for in-
stance —where it could be
condensed and sent to the paper
for publication. Space could be
bought and for the small price
of co-operation every man in-
terested would have all the
knowledge he needs to make his
business go.
This would not solve site-loca-
tion, of course, but in most
cases that can be worked out on
the spot. Anyhow, a committee
of beemen in each honey-
district could handle incoming
men and allot sites. A scheme
like this would cut the migratory
beeman’s cost enormously.
Aerial Sowing.
“C.S.”: M. J. Darmody, of
Nanima, Yass, used aircraft for
sowing pasture-seed, and told
Air-Griculture Control, Ltd.,
“Your aircraft sowed 520 acres
of sub.-clover for me in June,
1951. The country ranged from
undulating to grassy low hills,
with two or three gravelly ridges
and a considerable number of
good gullies. It was heavily
covered with fallen timber,
principally brittle gum and
stringy-bark, which has been
almost all killed out about 20
years. To have got a land-
machine on to this country
would have cost at least £l5OO
to pack up the timber, and then
I could have treated only 350
acres, as the rest is rather steep,
“What stopped me getting rid
of the timber was the danger of
wind- and water-erosion, which
the timber was stopping.
Besides, I wanted the timber to
rot back into the soil. So 1 could
only dream of sowing it with
clover. Then I heard of aerial-
sowing. On June 4, 1951, one of
your planes spread 26001 b. of
sub.-clover seed over 520 acres,
at the rate of 51b. per acre, in
2\ hours’ flying time.
“By the end of June we had
314 points of rain. This brought
magnificent germination and
showed an even spread. I
wasn’t able to topdress until
February, 1952, when two of
your planes spread 27 tons of
super, at per acre in a
day. In March it received 4in.
of rain. This shot the clover
away, and in mid-April a further
3|in. crowned the achievement.
Nanima now has a splendid
sward of pasture.”
Strength of Molasses.
“Bill C.”: Many say that
molasses is a great cattle-
fattener, whereas its value in this
respect is limited. Molasses con-
tains almost 60 per cent, of
carbohydrate material in sugar
form, but it has no flesh-forming
protein. It is a good source of
iron, and is also fairly high in
protein.
Its carbohydrate material
fattens cattle, horses and pigs,
but the fat tends to “walk off
easy.” Horses get soft and feel
the heat when fed too much
molasses; continued use after
these signs may lead to chronic
scouring with loss of condition.
Pigs react similarly, and, in
extreme cases, the flesh of
slaughtered animals may smell
and taste of molasses.
Its chief value is as a garnish
to make hard drought-tucker
palatable to stock. Spraying it
on dry, coarse grass before feed-
ing the latter to cattle will pre-
vent impaction, because the
molasses is laxative in effect and
it makes the cattle thirsty and
causes them to drink plenty of
water.
Water may be added to
molasses to thin it, but the
diluted stuff should be used as
soon as possible afterwards. This
thinned molasses is good for
spraying on cowpeas, velvet
beans or other forage legumes
being stored in a silage pit.
Pigs enjoy and benefit from a
reasonable quantity of molasses
with their grub ; it keeps them
free of worms and prevents con-
stipation. Mix a small amount
with mineral licks for stock.
Runner Beans.
“Taswegian”: For a backyard
vegetable the runner-bean is
hard to beat. It is a prolific
bearer, and half a dozen pods
make a feed. Thirty square-feet
of ground will grow enough for
a family, and treated properly
the vines will produce beans for
three to four months.
Lime the ground well and a
month later dig in well-rotted
stable-manure or compost. Sow
the beans in early spring. After
that there are but three things
to do: give them plenty of firm
support, water often (the foliage
as well as the roots), and keep
them picked. Don’t let any pods
mature or the vines will stop
producing.
A good crop is practically a
certainty, but even a poor crop
doesn’t spell total loss, for
legumes improve the soil by add-
ing nitrogen to it, even if you
don’t gather a single pod.
Speculation in Farms.
“W.C.Q.”: The sugar country
is eager to answer the cry of
“More production,” and more
land is being cleared for cane-
growing. Sugar is a fair prospect
just now, and a word of warning
ought to be uttered to those
eager to get into it. There are
men with sugar-land who would
much rather sell out at an in-
flated profit than continue farm-
ing. Anyone thinking of buy-
ing a sugar-farm should be on
the alert.
If you suspect the seller, ask
him how long he has been on the
place. Tricksters do not stay
long on any farm. Their way is
to get hold of a small farm
cheap, plant all the land, fertilise
excessively to dazzle potential
buyers, and then sell out.
Speculators will sometimes
brazenly state that they have not
used fertiliser on the crop. How-
ever, cane that has been heavily
fertilised with sulphate of
ammonia—the fertiliser most
used for boosting cane-growth —
will have a strong dark-green
tint that is unmistakable.
An honest man will usually
point out that his crop has had
a dressing of fertiliser, and that


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
gdf
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
g
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The simple instruction card supplied
makes it possible for any handyman
to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
■DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator 00. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
GRAIN SILOS
AND GENERAL PURPOSE STORAGE UNITS
PREFABRICATED BY
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE
PROMPT DELIVERY
F. Filling Hole Roof Panel K. Filling Hole Ring
14-4 MEAN /Dl AM.
♦
r
Auger Chute (2,000 Bushel Size) P. Bagging Outlet
Top
16G.
Gal. Iron, Formed.
•
Sides
16G. Gal. Iron, s**
Corrugations.
All Bolts, Nuts and
Washers supplied.
Complete erection
instructions supplied
with each Silo.
Bottom to be pro-
vided by purchaser.
12-18 bags cement,
or
"Earth Ring" sup-
plied slight extra
cost.
•
Available with 2nd
Bagging Outlet in
lieu of Auger Chute.
No extra charge.
9
Capacities— Prices
at
Bushels Works
2.000 £l9B
3.000 £249
3.500 £272
4.500 £321
Agents' names supplied on application to
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., CAPITAL CITIES
cm
oie&k wwfob eaJify. dk&uefa/
•fCIIFFJ
Side delivery
HAY RAKE
£_v_
The Cliff No. 1 side delivery Rake
is designed as a tractor implement
capable of smooth, efficient raking
at speeds up to 10 m.p.h. Mounted
on large rubbur tyred wheels with
ball bearing hubs, it can be towed
behind a car or tractor at relatively
high speeds when not in operation.
The tined disc raking wheels are
independently sprung, obtaining
their drive by direct contact with the
ground, enabling the machine to
rake perfectly over check banks and
undulations and when turning corners. The width of the
swathe being raked can be varied from 4to 1\ feet. Because
of its simple construction, maintenance and breakdown risks
are cut to a minimum.
LIMITED NUMBER N.S.W. COUNTRY AGENCIES
AVAILABLE.
If interested apply in writing to Box 2, Coburg, Victoria.
iiiii
tm
i PTV-
CHARLES ST., NTH COBURG, VIC.
SYDNEY AGENTS: DANGAK, GEDYE & MALLOCH, LTD.
BeWcious*®*' 8
and
,n SHot Bd
,
/
I
from
THE WONDERFUL AGA
MODEL C.B.
Imagine a Cooker that is almost automatic, and
has two big hot-plates and two capacious ovens.
This amazing Cooker burns coke, yet is smokeless
and fumeless, as clean as a china-plate. It is also
superbly insulated, to keep your kitchen cool, and
it provides an ample hot water service for all kitchen
needs plus 3 hot baths a day! Comfort, ease, and
simplicity of use—all these are yours with the Aga
(Model C. 8.), in addition to guaranteed fuel
economy!
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga 1$
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
THE
AG
COOKER J
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for the
AGA COOKER and BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA ______ Mai loch Bros. Ltd., Perth
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ _A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
SB
ft is his custom to use fertilisers.
The honest bloke dwells neither
on the faults nor the virtues of
his property ; the speculator goes
into a loud song about the great
points of his place. The
honest bloke is content to
show you round and let his place
recommend itself to you. I
suppose this applies to all farm
deals.
Hybrids for Fodder.
“Zea”: Most emphasis has
been placed on the value of
maize hybrids for increased
yields of grain. Results of an
experiment on the N.S.W. South
Coast show the best maize-
hybrids to yield about 20 per
cent, more fodder than the best
open-pollinated varieties.
Additional cost of hybrid-
maize seed is about £1 per acre.
An increase of about four tons
of green fodder may be valued
at least as an increased return of
£4 or £5 per acre, making an
obvious profit from the use of
hybrid seed.
Bush Nests.
“Sarina”: We provided nests
for our hens by cutting a straight
hollow log down the middle to
form two troughs. These
troughs were secured on top of
stout posts sunk in the earth in
the fowl-house. They were
divided into equal sections by
nailing cross-pieces at intervals,
and a nest of grass with a China
nest-egg was put in each “com-
partment.” A couple of ladders
allow the hens easy access to the
nests.
When the troughs become
dirty, we take out the straw, re-
move the cross-sections, sweep
away the dust and then wash
down with kerosene emulsion or
something similar.
Rank Growth.
“Dungaree”: At first sight
luxurious growth around dung-
pats on pasture seems excellent
feed, but dairyfarmers know
how their cattle avoid it like the
plague.
It has now been discovered
that the only thing wrong is that
it contains considerably less
sugar than the surrounding
pasture. Cows apparently have
a sweet tooth, for dung-affected
pasture sweetened with sugar-
solution has been readily eaten.
Hints for the Farm.
“Metax”: Flywire doors wear
longer if the wire is not stretched
too tightly and is securely tacked
to the main frame before putting
on the cover-strips.
“Burnie”: A piece of flat board
placed on top makes it easy to
replace the lid evenly and firmly
on a tin of paint.
“Taxme”; A horizontal board
along the bottom of a paling or
picket-fence is better than taking
the vertical members to full
length. Shorter palings can be
used and they are saved from
rotting at the ends. The earth
contact shortens the board’s life,
but its renewal is simpler than
replacing a line of verticals.
“D.J.H.”: To ensure better
fertility and less injury to hens,
trim the rooster’s spurs back to
half an inch from the body.
Most farmers use the hacksaw.
“C.A.A.”: Anasmia of pigs
can be stopped by dosing suckers
every week with powdered sul-
phate of iron, using enough to
go on a threepenny piece for
each piglet. Alternatively swab
the udder of the sow daily with a
mixture comprising 61b, of sul-
phate of iron, 2|oz. of sulphate
of copper, 11b. of sugar and three
quarts of water. Also useful is a
shovelful of clean earth daily.
This often goes far to meeting
the mineral requirements of pigs.
Access of sow and litter to
pasture as soon as practicable
helps ward off the disease.
“ML”: To protect young fruit-
trees from rabbit attack, paint
the trunk with a mixture of
bitter aloes loz. and soap loz,
in a gallon of water. Apply at
monthly intervals or after every
rain.
“A.S.”: Old brickwork can be
freshened up with a weak solu-
tion of spirits-of-salts, eight
parts of water to one of spirits.
First wet the brickwork well,
then, with a scraper—an old
hoe-blade or any piece of iron
with a straight edge—scrape all
moss and other growth or dirt
away. Brush the solution into
the brickwork until it begins to
bubble. Afterwards hose or
wash the work thoroughly.
f , “Tiny”: When there are signs
of breakdown in concrete-
troughs and -floors owing to the
action of milk-acids, mix a
gallon of waterglass with 4gal.
of water and, as the mixture is
beginning to set, spray it on the
surface of the concrete. Two
mores dressings will be necessary,
with intervals of 24 hours
between them.


Wherever You Go
gb
2.
Travel north, south, east or west; you can
depend on the utmost In performance from
Goodyear Tyres. Every year, since 1915,
Goodyear Tyres have been the world’s first
choice —what better proof that the world’s
best tyres carry the name Goodyear? When
you buy tyres, buy Goodyear Tyres. See your
Goodyear Dealer for the finest in tyre value.
For Safety, Comfort
and Mileage---fit
good/year
TYRES
More People,
the world over,
ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on
any other make.
dfg
CB2-*
Fly Canadian Pacific style and enjoy the
utmost in travel comfort. Experienced air-
wise crews and competent, courteous
stewardesses make your comfort a pleasure.
Luxurious “Loungaire” chairs, food fit for
a king . . . delicious full course meals,
snacks at a moment’s notice. Cocktails
and champagne complimentary. Fly re-
laxed arrive refreshed ... when you go
Canadian Pacific style.
SYDNEY . AUCKLAND • FIJI
HONOLULU • VANCOUVER
En route to UNITED STATES and U.K.
Service and Comfort. I
%
(Free stopovers at Fiji 13 hours ;
and Honolulu —32 hows.)
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents ) at Zlft George
St., Sydney, and 59 William St., Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency will be glad to
offer you full information.
A! RUNES
“Wing* of the World’s Greatest Travel System”
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited—lncorporated in Canada.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Christianity refuses to believe that
such a being as the average man really
exists.”— Archbishop of York Dr.
Garbett.
Cricketers will resent this.
4* 4* 4*
“A visitor to Sydney now after an
absence of years would see a great
difference.” — Country paper.
He’d miss all the bright fights,
•b 4* 4*
“Excessive heat has a tremendous
effect on the mental and physical
working ability of men.”
When temperatures rise their
work is not so hot.
“Lost, spotted umbrella, Neutral
Bay ferry or tram. Ring .”
Perhaps someone else spotted
it.
•I*
“Women in Moscow can buy
fashion magazines, says wife of
Soviet diplomat.”
These are enthusiastically Red.
•b *b *b
“The judge said he thoroughly
agreed with a defendant that women
talked too much on the telephone.”
—Melbourne “Argus”
Perhaps they could be charged
with consorting with receivers?
4* 4*
“Wanted, boy 17, with some know-
ledge of handel work.”
—Suburban paper.
He will never be asked to
work bach.
Advice to Spinsters.
Horses and girls, with too much
weight to carry.
Can rarely neigh or trill the
victor’s hymn;
Yet owners pick the beast a
horse shall marry ;
A girl may choose her own, if
she is slim.
Lady, be warned: To thine own
sylph be true,
And it shall follow as the knight
the dame
Your prince will come, eager to
give to you
A lovely habitation and a Name.
Put off the sinful flesh —at least
until
You fly the banner of a wifely
pinny —
No Jack can lift a too, too solid
Jill:
“Grace before meat /” he cries,
and weds a skinny.
For they who figure largely in
the bon ton
Are soon weighed in their
absence and found wanton.
NEIL MILLAR.
Easy Money.
The symptoms were alarming,
so I rang for an appointment
with the specialist.
One morning three months
later I presented myself about
two hours after the appointed
time, shrewdly calculating that
I should then have only about a
quarter of an hour to wait.
He was about 7ft. tall, with
a bifurcated moustache, close-
set ears and a hump on his
chest. He looked down at me
sternly.
“You seem to be standing in
a hole,” he said. “I can only
see the top of your head from
where I am. Stand back over
there so I can get a look at
you.”
I took a few paces backwards
and found myself out in the
passage. Shortly afterwards the
nurse came out and said that
doctor hadn’t quite finished the
consultation.
“Well,” he said, “what’s the
trouble with you?”
“Nothing at all,” I replied.
He seemed slightly taken
aback, I thought. “Nothing?
Then why”——
“I have a feeling of complete
well-being,” I went on. “1 eat
like a horse”
“Not with your nose in a bag,
surely!” he interrupted rudely.
“It isn’t healthy, breathing in
such a confined space.”
“Shut up!” I said. “Who’s
telling this story? I sleep
soundly fourteen hours a night
and I wouldn’t blow a candle
out after five strenuous sets of
tennis singles.”
“But why the necessity to take
a lighted candle on to a tennis-
“Break this into silver for the cab."
court?” he asked, his eyebrows,
or what was left of them,
arched.
I ignored the fellow, and went
on. “I can lay my hands flat
on the ground while my knees
are stiff”
At that he shot out of his
chair, pulled my trouser-leg up
and looked keenly at the ex-
posed joint. Then he looked up.
“Have you ever suffered from
rheumatism?” he asked.
“Never heard of it,” I replied.
“Could you get it in a tooth?
I had a sore bicuspid once.”
He bent on me a strange look.
“When were you last ill?” he
asked.
“About three months ago,” 1
replied.
“What were the symptoms?”
“Well, I broke out in a clammy
sweat”
“Was that on rising?” he asked
keenly.
“No; on opening my phone
bill,” I replied.
He groaned. “Go on,” he
said brokenly.
“I distinctly remember,” 1
went on, “that after a light mid-
night repast of oysters, tripe and
onions, whisky and cold suet-
pudding, followed by a few
bottles of beer, I couldn’t sleep.
It puzzled me, because I never
get insomnia. The symptoms
had my local doctor puzzled, so
he advised me to see you.”
He got up, rather nervously, I
thought, and, getting me to open
my mouth, looked inside with
a light. “I don’t like the look
of those gums,” he said. “I
think you have gingivitis.”
“It wouldn’t surprise me,” I
replied. “My old man was red-
headed.”
The specialist’s mouth fell
open and he sank back in his
chair and passed a hand wearily
across his brow. I went straight
up to him, took up a spoon that
was lying on the desk and put it
on his tongue. “Say ‘Aah,’ ” I
ordered.
I looked down in disapproval.
“Fur on it thicker than on a
Persian cat,” I remarked. “Your
works must have seized up.
Take four tablespoons of
powdered liquorice in a glass of
dill-water six times a day after
meals, or half an hour before
you feel an attack of indigestion
coming on.”
I lifted up an eyelid. “H’m.
More jaundiced even than Eddie
Ward’s politics,” I commented.
“There are a few foreign bodies
there that should come out.”
Then I brought the edge of
my palm down sharply across
his crossed knee. Nothing hap-
pened. “No reflex actions!” I
said sadly. “Your tonsils must
be diseased. I’ll give you a note
to an ear, nose and throat man.”
By this time he was looking
very green about the gills.
“Your skin,” I said critically,
“is ‘crocodiling,’ like old paint.
If you don’t have it seen to
shortly you’ll have to be excori-
ated —a most unpleasant busi-
ness. I’ll give you a note to see
a”
“Not a skin specialist!” he
almost sobbed.
“Your fiver,” I went on re-
morselessly, feeling him some-
where between the aorta and the
diaphragm, “is badly hobnailed.
You’ll have to cut down to half
a bottle of brandy before break-
fast. And we’ll have to do
something about that crema-
torium cough.”
By this time the poor wretch
was shaking visibly.
“That will be three guineas,”
I finished curtly.
As in a trance he reached for
his cheque-book and began writ-
ing in so shaky a hand I had
to get Nurse to give him a shot
of bromide just before he got
to his signature.
I must be the only patient
who ever made a profit out of
a doctor.
Bo.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No nonce (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is unctertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
J.S.: Much too jolly for business-
men R.C. Jr.: You had an idea,
but drowned it in words... .S.E.:
Beware the well-managed story that
reads as though the characters had
been bribed to a kissful conclusion.
E.H.H.: Slight.... R.S.: Ditto.
G.M.B.: Trust that your “Dream”
comes true... .N.A.: The little
lament is pleasing in its economy.
Might suit a women’s paper
L.R.G.: Whales too slender; pars,
about what’s going on up there would
be read with interest P.E.: If
you’re young its torrent of words may
indicate promise; but you still need
to simplify C.R.; Pleasant enough,
but slight and sing-song M.F.T.:
Something fresh in that. Come
again W.G.H.: That bushman
who comes to the city, feels lonely
and hikes back to where the magpies
sing has got whiskers down to his
ankles R.H.L.: Two lines, then,
but more for their sentiment than
their versification:
The abos are a race of good and kindly
truemen
So let us act towards them and prove
we’re also human.
B.C.: “To An Alarm Clock”
didn’t go E.N.: The gardening
poem might score elsewhere if you
improve that “culture-nurture” rhyme;
it takes a skilled hand to use otf-
rhyme and assonance successfully.
F.H.F.: “From now on I will
cut down the contributions to the
post office to 7d. every two months.
The next contribution shall be sent
the 9th June, 1952.” It’s really too
bad to be hit by inflation as well as
poetry R.M.: Glad to see Maupas-
sant defended, brut no space for the
article 1.M.: Young George on
his tractor in the bushfire is indeed a
subject for a ballad; but your harp
has a few strings missing R.C.:
Sorry to turn down a poem with so
beautiful a title as “An Australian
Murder”; but you do prolong the
job H.W.: “Thoughts” unthink-
able P. de C.: Never very keen
on that style of poem which consists
of a string of questions addressed to
some invisible stranger.... R.L.F.:
Something to it; but the end is
straight from Pater on the Mona Lisa.
S.H.H.: Might have done, but
we have a few better at that length.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Fee Simple
There was a time in life when anyone
with a few quid and the inclination could
take a chance and invest in a piece of
real estate with an eye to owning it
eventually, free of all encumbrance. As a
property-owner one would then be
assured of a home or of a small but
more-or-less regular income. That wag
what one meant by “fee simple”—the
most complete title one could hold to a
piece of real estate.
Today? Under the multitudinous
statutes and regulations that have been
enacted and gazetted during the past half-
century —and particularly during the past
decade —-the term “fee simple” has be-
come a poor joke.
In N. S. Wales, under the Public Works
Act, the State Housing Act, the Local
Government Act, Public Health Act,
Landlord and Tenant Act, and legislation
governing electrical undertakings, rail-
ways, water, sewerage and drainage, an
avid reader could find enough excuses
for the alienation or limitation of the
rights of private property-owners to de-
moralise a nation a dozen times bigger
than Australia.
As the law stands today a private
property-owner is a bunny for every gov-
ernmental or semi-governmental depart-
ment or authority about the place. He
provides homes for the thriftless and the
shiftless, he pays the rates that provide
roads, parks, water, sewerage and drain-
age services, street-lighting, cleaning,
beautification, community centres,
Olympic pools, beaches, playgrounds and
community pubs. His enterprise feeds
the nation, clothes it, supplies its con-
sumer goods and underwrites its export-
income potential.
His reward? Every governmental or
semi - governmental department can
jeopardise his future by the publication
of a few wdrds in a Government gazette
or on a slip of paper delivered to him
through the post. His farm, his factory,
his home can be whipped away from
him overnight and in its place he may
find an offer of compensation that is
tantamount to confiscation. A planner in
an office playing with T-squares and
colored pencils can undo years of effort
and expensive investment in a few
minutes. A line drawn on a map can
turn land worth many pounds per foot
into what’s barely worth as many pence
per acre.
Those who may doubt this should
examine the Local Government Act
(N.S.W.), with particular reference to the
Cumberland County Council. Let them
inquire into the present value of former
potential factory-sites zoned as residential
land and “improved” with ancient terrace-
houses. Or try to sell a house through
which a black line denoting some future
roadway or the red line of a railway is
drawn ; or choice home-sites now termed
“green-belt.”
Or again, have a look at the statutes
governing the settlement of returned ser-
vicemen on the land. Note how land,
producing high returns, can be resumed
at the rock-bottom prices of 1942 —a time
when, with the soldiers away from the
land, farms and stations were unsaleable.
Go further, Ask the victims of the
State Housing Commission if they have
yet been paid for the land taken away
from them years ago by that instru-
mentality at ludicrous values and since
developed and now earning rents at top
prices under the protection of the
almighty State.
It is high time that legislation per-
mitting or authorising interference with
property rights should be investigated and
cleaned up. It is outrageous that muni-
cipal councils and the Housing Commis-
sion should possess powers enabling them
to blight a large area of valuable property
by promulgating a notice to the effect that
at some future date they propose to re-
sume it or otherwise control its develop-
ment. Under such orders, private owners
are prevented from disposing of their
property, or developing it, thus being
deprived not only of much capital out-
lay, but of the profits they may lawfully
and reasonably expect to make out of
their investment.
Such restrictions should be confined to
areas that the Government is prepared
to resume forthwith, and compensation
of dispossessed owners should be payable
without delav at current market values,
having regard to the state of the market,
with an added allowance for loss of time
spent regaining one’s lost position. The
State would be adequately protected
against excessive demands for compensa-
tion and the property-owner would be
treated as fairly as any person who,
having made progress, found himselt
in the gutter faced with the task of start-
ing all over again .--Cave (N.S.W.).
Dollar Imports
While the Federal Government is
drastically pruning sterling imports it
should look to reducing further unneces-
sary imports from the U.S.A. Why and
by whom are dollars being wasted on
the importation of luxury motor-cars and
radio, film and. newspaper entertainment?
Loopholes in the present import regula-
tions permit hundreds of new American
cars to be brought into the country while
we are still being assured that dollar im-
ports have been cut to the absolute
minimum. One dealer lately advertised
four brand-new American cars for
immediate delivery, and told his clients
that more would be available within a
few weeks.
Dollars are also being wasted on
American radio programmes, none of
which has greater entertainment- or
cultural-value than locally-produced
shows. In fact, most are straight plays,
serials and popular-music programmes
which tend to put our own actors and
musicians closer to the breadline.
The supply of Hollywood films also
seems to have escaped the Government’s
attack, while the exploits of American
comic-strip characters are still featured
daily in the very newspapers which
advocate economy in dollar expenditure,
—W. M. H. (S.AO.
Commonwealth Employment Service
Of all the costly machinery of Social-
ism inherited by the present Federal Gov-
ernment in 1949, none was -so ripe for
scrapping as the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service.
Originally it was begun by “Labor”
with a dual purpose —to provide means
of controlling movement and employ-
ment of workers when the glorious day
of Socialism should arrive, and to pro-
vide jobs for the bureaucrats of the war-
time Manpower Authority which died
with the National Security Regulations.
It was fair enough to expect, then, that
when the Government passed into the
hands of a non-Socialist party, the C.E.S.
would be wiped, and its officers dispersed
to spheres more productive. .
No such thing happened, and it is hard
to see how this squares with the party’s
promise to cut the Public Service to an
irreducible minimum. Since the war
there has been no need for such an
organisation, except maybe to find jobs
for ex-servicemen, and that has always
been done most efficiently by the employ-
ment sections of the Returned Soldiers
League in the capitals and country
districts as well. , „
At present, in N. S. Wales, the C.E.S.
has no fewer than 56 branches, excluding
its overstaffed headquarters in the Grace
Building, Sydney. It maintains costly
offices in country towns where the
appearance of an unemployed man
causes a wild rush of farmers to secure
his services. .
It would be difficult to estimate the
cost to the taxpayer of this useless
organisation, but with salaries as high as
they are it must be costing millions to
maintain its Commonwealth-wide set-up.
Its only possible function at present is to
keep the blueprint of Socialism ready
for the return of the Socialists to power,
but just why a Liberal Government
should do that is beyond an ordinary
voter— Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Psychiatry and Society
As “S.P.” says, bemoaning one’s lot is
stupidity (B. 16/4/’52), but it is becoming
second nature to too many Australians.
The truth, of course, is that there is little
that we “suffer” that cannot be remedied
by personal and collective effort. One
has only to refer to Rachel Henning’s
letters to realise that those early
pioneers suffered more hardships in a
year than we would encounter in a life-
time. The main effect it had on them was
to make them work harder.
Our man-hours of pleasure are far in
advance of most other countries. Dr.
Evatt has belatedly admitted this, yet we
flock to the races, the trots, strike on the
flimsiest of pretexts, pass the buck on to
harassed Arbitration Courts and Con-
ciliation Commissioners—and groan at
the consequent “hardships.”
If, instead of indulging in mass
demonstrations of self-pity, we buckled to
and worked harder, produced more, and
gave more thought to Australian econ-
omy as a whole, most of our problems
would disappear. —A. F. (Vic.).
Australian Industry
Visiting a large factory, I found the
great-grandson of the founder as works-
manager in control of a wonderful
organisation with hundreds of employees,
working under ideal conditions. He was
surprised to hear me say that his plant
was a living monument to the protec-
tionist policy for which The Bulletin
and others fought so hard nearly 50
years ago. He asked where could he get
some information to back that view, as
he is doing a course in economics.
He had never heard of Calico Jimmy,
Bruce Smith, Max Hirsch, or the Petriana
lie or the six hatters—he thought that
the iron, steel, sugar, condensed-milk,
chemical and other industries had just
grown naturally. He was amazed, and
asked why the great manufacturers were
not making more of history.
Isn’t it possible for our papers to spare
a little space to remind or inform us how
much Australia has benefited by the per-
sistent and at times unpopular advocacy
of a policy so detested by importers?—
C.C.D. (S.A.).
“Buyer Resistance”
My broker in his monthly bulletin in-
forms me that “buyer-resistance” is
depressing the sharemarket. My boss,
standing glumly before his sales-graph
for the last three months, ascribes the
tumble to “buyer-resistance.” No doubt
if I touched him for a rise, I, too, would
encounter “buyer-resistance.” The man
who calls at our place for the weekly
grocery order says things ain’t what they
was, and concludes “I’m gettin’ buyer-
resistance.”
If fewer people contented themselves
with muttering the magic words and gave
thought to what they mean in plain
English, and what to do about it, our
economic recovery might be aided and
hastened. They mean that the public
thinks things are too damn’ dear, a state
of mind deliberately fostered by the
Menzies Government —for which it
should be thanked, not cursed.
The cure for “buyer-resistance” is as
simple as the meaning—lower prices. On
the wool- and sharemarkets —f re e
markets where the buyer has all the say
—the fall has already taken place. The
sooner industry, commerce and labor
realise that they have to follow suit, the
quicker our recovery from our present
economic discomforts. — Hist (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 174
Across.
I—Conveyance1—Conveyance beside a grenadier’s
millinery. (5)
4—Reducer urges a 99-year-old artist
to kick the bucket. (9)
9 —You separate a Swiss patriot
from municipal levies and salts.
(10) .
10 —Lend an ear for an inclination
catalogue. (4)
12 — Leaving out but love the work of
an embassy. (8)
13 — Fight just in case. (3)
16—Indian factotum with a vehicle
in the honors list. (6)
18 —Made obeisances to Sarah with a
morning editor. (8)
20 — Diana with a Boche ringlet. (8)
21— Placed dependence upon a Bib-
lical priest in the red about a
German song. (6)
24 Layer. (3)
25 Kennel carpet, I see, is somewhat
set in opinion. (8)
29 Black in Kentucky. (4)
30 — -French capital of Chaldea takes
a century and one soprano. (5-5)
32 — Evangelist is to leave the
nominator of the letters. (9)
33 — Boundary shrubbery is to sit on
the fence. (5)
Down.
1 — But heavyweights include the
page. (7)
2 Marketed, that is to telephone
army activity when I am involved
in plumbing activity. (10)
3 Why the French bear belongs to
you. (5)
4 Tedious shows do this monster.
(6)
5 Paradise Anthony. (4)
6 Kipling produce. (2)
7 Girl has a bearing on vision. (4)
8 — Saw just plain cake. (7)
11—Thus to tie up for comfort. (6)
14 — Fatten a state kiss. (3)
15— Emily and Edward separated by
drink. (10)
17 —A gluttony tallied. (6)
19— Snake. (3)
20— That woman’s telephone fish. (7)
22—Pliant millinery for a French
nobleman? (7)
23—He gets the bird authority on
modern English usage. (6)
26 — Hebrew prophet. (5)
27 — Secret kiss equipment for some
sports. (4)
28 — Enrage bile. (4)
31 —Who is Maine? (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 173


•MTS®
U a ii .Mm 3 tin to s
II Hainan an mu
H: i|
II
li B
11
It IIH
II II
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Dr. R. J. TAYLOR
Hon. T. G. MURRAY.
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.I.C.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O'Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.I.C.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA;
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K-S*. 0.8. E.
Ivan Holyman
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Meary
Manager: W. Dwyer
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
♦ - ’ -•£. v ;
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878 )
Continues to Progress
extracts from annual report
FOR 1951:
★
NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue of 10,193
- - H his
Policies assuring £10.249,851.
★
ASSETS
_
for Depreciation, and
ai
184 after providing £23,872
q Policies in Force exceed 116,000, assuring
over £64,000,000
9 Premium Income amounted to £2,316,669
*1 Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1951,
totalled £813,437, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£13,750,000
9 Special Additional Reserves amount to
£740,000
9 Bonuses Increased
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
