

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3764
Wednesday, April 2, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Jeppelts
The Hub of Chichester is
its Gothic Market Cross
A FEATURE of many ancient towns in
. Britain is the Market Cross, built
originally to provide shelter for people
coming in from the country to sell their
produce; here, tap, buyers and sellers
made their bargains.
One of the finest and most elaborate
structures of this kind is the Market
Cross which stands at the intersection of
four main streets in Chichester, the capital
and administrative centre of West Sussex
which also has the distinction of being
a cathedral city and thriving market
town.
From earliest times the prosperity of
Chichester depended upon its markets,
and during the Middle Ages, overseas
trade formed an important part of the
business of its citizens. Wool, and later
in the fifteenth century, cloth were ex-
ported from Chichester in considerable
quantities. The eighteenth century
brought to Chichester a new economic
prosperity when wheat and corn became
the prinicipal export commodities.
As a result of this prosperity, the city
spent lavishly on its municipal buildings
which remain today of great architectural
interest. Chief of these is the Market
Cross, shown in the accompanying
illustration, which is the finest Gothic
structure of its kind still existing in
England. It was built about five hundred
years ago and was the gift of Edmund
Storey, Bishop of Chichester, to the city,
together with an endowment for its up-
keep. An octagon in shape with eight
. arches set between pinnacled buttresses,
its chief features, are the flying buttresses
rising to the central finial which give the
impression of a great crown carved in
stone. The niches over the arches were
originally filled with statues, including
one of the donor. Today this impres-
sive building is preserved as an ancient
monument.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4.


Learn
Storu Writing
VJ at HOWE
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
f- —CUT HEBE AND MAIL ———L l
I To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary I
| Prospectus, free and without obligation.
| My Name j
j Address J
| (S.B.afi«) Age I
-J
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 066, Wellingto ,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current B-A■ «“ ;a ,
tralian books, also In bookish items of_ge , ncg
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements ft , ,
news, gossip and book sale prices. ear i y
Book lists on Mansfleldlana, Caxton , • wa
recent A/.ian poets (Douglas Steward
and others;. Specialised field* to* *>»
The Red Page
THE SHETLAND BUS.
Since daily journalism has perverted
that salty old word “saga” into meaning
anything from a Jervis Bay yacht-race to
a captain standing-by his damaged ship
with not less than a couple of destroyers
and tugs standing-by him, one hesitates
to call David Howarth’s The Shetland
Bus (Nelson) by the name. But, perver-
sion regardless, a saga it is—of the wild
north seas, of descendants of Norsemen
and of the little fishing-boats they drove
from Shetland to Norway and back,
braving Luftwaffe, Reichsmarine and the
threat of death.
Howarth was 2-i.-c. of the small British
naval base at Lunna, in the Shetlands, his
responsibility the special Norwegian naval
unit operating from there. Fishermen
and merchant-seamen, his team sailed
Norwegian fishing-boats (among the sea-
worthiest in the world) sometimes as
much as 2000 miles (across some of the
stormiest water in the world) to land
men, munitions and supplies for the
Underground in Norway and to bring
back refugees and Undergrounders on
whom the Gestapo’s breath was beating
too hotly.
From a book crammed with incident,
related with crisp, seamanlike dispatch,
one picks on a single adventure which,
in its hazard, ambition and possibility of
high reward, is typical of the whole
chronicle. This was the attack on battle-
ship Tirpitz with two-man human tor-
pedoes—she was finally crippled, of
course, with British- and Australian-
manned midget-submarines some time
later.
It was natural that Leif Larsen was
picked to lead the expedition. “He did
not look the part. He was a stockily-
built man in his thirties, with china-blue
eyes, a broken nose and a wide, humorous
mouth ; and he had so quiet and modest
a manner that it might have taken us a
long time to find out his latent powers.”
His latent powers, when they became
active with Hitler invading his country,
brought Larsen an astonishing row of
medals—C.G.M., D.S.M.-and-Bar, D.S.C.
and D. 5.0., “besides, of course, Nor-
wegian decorations.” No other man,
British or foreign, has ever won all those
British honors; had he not been a
foreigner it is almost certain that Larsen
would have collected the Victoria Cross.
Towards the end of 1942 the British
Navy had perfected a two-man torpedo,
called a chariot, which Martian-like
affair, 20ft. long and driven electrically,
carried two men astride its belly and a
whacking thump of high-explosive in its
nose. The idea was to steer the chariot
beneath Tirpitz’s unsuspecting (they
hoped) bilges, detach the warhead and
attach it with magnets to the German’s
plating, then scoot clear on the body of
the torpedo.
It was Larsen’s job to get them to
within a few miles’ striking distance of
the target. His task in the open sea,
scoured by German planes and patrol-
boats, would be junket compared with
sneaking past the guard-posts, gun-
batteries, searchlights, radar-stations and
other pleasantries guarding Trondheim-
fjord, up through the thickly-boated fjord,
then releasing his cargo within sight of
Tirpitz’s heavily-gunned and always-
apprehensive length. It was decided to
do the job boldly. Sling the chariots
beneath a normal Norwegian fishing-boat
(plenty of which were, of course, plying
their trade round the coast), and, when
in position, send the chariot crews over-
board to their waiting charges, slip them
and hope for the best.
Months of the most intense prepara-
tion went into the project. Fishing passes,
registration papers, crew-lists and crew-
passes were forged; an itinerary was
worked out for the boat —the Germans
had a very strict hand on all boat-move-
ments —and certificates from each port
of the itinerary were forged with date-
stamps and harbor-masters’ signatures.
Finally, when a roving Spitfire reported
Tirpitz in her normal position, they set
out.
Through patrols, inquisitive Quislings
who had to be talked out of boarding
the boat, low-swooping aircraft, they
moved out, their nerves in a constant
coil of tension. They were inside the
fjord, only 50 miles from Tirptiz, when
the engine spluttered, knocked and
stopped. Investigation showed that the
piston of their single cylinder was cracked
nicely half across its top. Swiftly the
boat s engineer fitted a makeshift copper
patch to fit the domed top of the piston,
their constant fear a helpful patrol-boat
drawing alongside to render aid.
On they crawled, till, early in the
morning, with the twin chariots clearly
visible hanging on their wires underneath,
they came up to a waiting examination-
vessel, There was a breathless moment
as Larsen and his men waited for the
German sailors lining the rail to look
down. They didn’t; securing wires were
passed, a Nazi officer jumped aboard,
thoroughly scrutinised their phony papers
and waved them on. Stomachs remained
curled till the boat’s wake mercifully hid
what she was carrying beneath.
All afternoon they cruised slowly up
Trondheimfjord, nearer and nearer, un-
bothered now that they had passed the
crucial point. Abruptly, after dark, the
weather changed. Rounding the last bend
in the fjord they found themselves pitch-
ing into a short, steep sea which gave the
boat an unnaturally lively motion.
In a moment, as they rose to a crest,
they felt the tug of the towing wires on
the keel.,..Then something hit the pro-
peller. At once the boat’s motion eased,
and they knew that the chariots were gone.
In despair they cruised on at slow speed.
When they reached the lee of the hills a
diver went overboard. Their worst fears
were confirmed. Both wires were hanging
from the keel, and on the end of each was
the towing lug from the nose of the chariot.
It was the bitterest disappointment. They
were within five miles of the Tirpitz, which
was easy range for a chariot. Nobody
knew they were there, and the way to her
was wide open. But their weapons were
sunk beyond retrieving, and there was
nothing whatever they could do.
Larsen’s comments are not recorded ..,
Noyy they had to think of escape.
Scuttling the boat, they waded ashore;
most of them, through their friends of
the Underground, got back to Lunna,
One of them was wounded, captured, put
into hospital, nursed back to health and
then shot. For this, among other crimes.
Admiral Donitz, then commanding in
Norway, was charged at Nuremberg.
Altogether, Howarth’s little team of
100 men did a thoroughly splendid job—
landing more than 60 radio-transmitters
and operators in Norway, whose reports
of German movements were invaluable;
picking up some 350 refugees, most of
whom were in trouble with the Gestapo ;
and helping to bind down in Norway,
to deal with the guerrilla force Howarth’s
team supplied, 10 divisions of German
troops. On the night before Germany
surrendered, armed Norwegian troops
appeared in every town and accepted the
surrender of this enormous garrison, and
all were armed with uniforms, grenades
and Sten-guns carried acoss in the un-
failing Shetland bus.
MACNELL.
Ferenc Molnar.
The secretaries of Anatole France and
G. B. Shaw wrote excellent memoirs of
their dead masters: for the whimsical
Hungarian playwright, Ferenc Molnar, it
was more appropriate that he should
write the memoir of his secretary-
companion, Wanda Bartha, who died sit-
ting up in bed in their New York hotel,
reading and smoking a cigarette, aged
thirty-eight, in 1947.
Among her papers, Molnar found a
bookful of transcriptions of his own
anecdotes and conversation; and he has
printed these, left largely in paragraphs
as he found them, cut into chapters, with
preludes and additions of his own, as
Companion In Exile, Notes for an Auto-
biography (W. H. Allen). It will rank with
the curiosities of literature; the brilliant
gaiety of these anedotes of the author of
one of the gayest plays of the century,
“The Guardsman,” splashed with the
scalding tears of an old man’s grief.
He met her by chance in a Budapest
cafe about 1932, already divorced, for-
gotten in her fabulously-rich uncle’s will;
together (his wife’s stage career tying her
to Berlin and Vienna) they “fled the
proscription, prison and murder that
overtook so many of my German and
Hungarian friends,” and became “a
lonely, taciturn wandering couple in
trains, hotels, bistros and sidewalk cafes”
for “seven years in Austria, Italy, France
and Switzerland,” until 1939, when they
went to America, she being to him
secretary, literary adviser, researcher,
critic, collaborator, assistant stage-
director, business manager, bookkeeper,
stenographer, housekeeper, cook and
nurse”: —
During our European years together I
enjoyed the ill-fated honor of having her
put herself completely under my protec-
tion; she was fanatically obedient, trusting
my judgment blindly. In the course of the
years her confidence in me slowly began to
be shaken, because I slowly—very slowly
indeed, owing to her reserve and modesty—
began to discover her qualities of heart and
mind, so that in the end it was I who
always asked her advice about everything
from playwriting to a haircut. I never did
anything at all during our years in America
without asking her opinion. Our parts thus
reversed, she became an orphan again;
she had lost her protector, and I could tell
that this made her very unhappy, because
she knew she was never bom a b 055..,,”
News in 1945 of the murder of her
brother in Europe seems to have contri-
buted to her early death. Molnar weeps
better for her than we can; meanwhile
there are the anecdotes. Puccini attended
a dress-rehearsal in London of “The
Guardsman,” and after the second act,
set as in the box of an opera-house, with
“Madame Butterfly” being played by an
orchestra off-stage, asked to speak to the
music-director. Terrified that Puccini
might raise the question of copyright, the
music-director acceded to a request for
the score, whereupon Puccini corrected
it for hours.... .Backstage of theComedie
Franfaise had become more lushly
furnished for the actors than out front
was for the audience Before Molnar
was to receive the Legion of Honor he
went to get a shave, and in the mirror
observed M. Gdmier, who was to present
it to him, being shaved also; neither
acknowledged having been in the same
barber-shop to aquire the smooth cheeks
necessary to the kiss that goes with the
order In honor of Puccini a banquet
was arranged at Budapest at which the
best singer of Hungarian folk-songs, with
the Mayor of Budapest at the piano, did
their utmost for two hours:
In reply to a timid question about the
songs, Puccini blushed, used every imagin-
able polite phrase by way of preamble,
but finally admitted straight out that he did
not care for them. And so this first and,
so far as I know, last Budapest banquet
for Puccini ended in an icy chill,
Reinhardt and Molnar agreed that “the
biggest theatrical row they had ever ex-
perienced” was the first night of the
Debussy ballet “Afternoon of a Faun”
—to his secretary’s record, Molnar
appends “a detailed recollection of that
evening as Reinhardt and I recalled if;
at the height of the storm tail-coated
gentlemen with high hats on their heads
belabored one another with elegant
walking-sticks, and ladies pulled one an-
other’s hair ; police appeared and fled
before the crowd’s fury; but the dis-
approvers were first to give up:
The stage manager came out in front of
the curtain. “Do you want us to play the
ballet again?” he said.
Now the “Bis! Bis!” resounded quite
without protest. The lights went down, the
curtain rose, and the whole ballet was
repeated from beginning to end. Nijinsky
E layed the close exactly as before....
Iniversai applause rewarded him.
Molnar’s greatest success, “Liliom,”
flopped at its Budapest premiere in 1909
—“That’s what comes,” his family told
him, “of writing your play in a noisy
cate.” Molnar was downcast until he
heard that Ibsen often wrote in cafes.
This news cheered him until he met his
Danish agent, who had known Ibsen,
who told him that Norwegian tourist-
guides showing tourists through
Christiania (Oslo) would point out Ibsen
at work through the glass windows of
cafes:—
Hansen declared that these “Ibsens” were
actually to be seen at several different cafes
in the tourist season, invariably with eye-
glasses, thick wide side-whiskers and no
moustache. They were always deep in
thought, busily writing. They were theatri-
cal extras, hired for a modest fee by the
caf&s to sit at the window, assiduously
scrawling one sheet of paper full after
another/
Note of a dinner-party at Billy Rose’s
house: present besides Molnar were Rose
and bis wife Eleanor Holm; Ben Hecht,
George and Beatrice Kaufman, Edna
Ferber, George Jessell, Leonard Lyons,
columnist of the New York “Post,” Ray
Goetz and Edward G. Robinson....
Learning from the Press that Molnar had
made a million dollars from the film-
rights to “Liliom”:
We have in our files a copy of the con-
tract, drawn soon after the New York
opening (April 20, 1921), and the ensuing
favorable notices of “Liliom,” selling the
film rights of the play for 750 dollars,
less commission to the Budapest agent.
Among the guests at another dinner-
party, given by Lyons, the columnist:
the John Steinbecks, the Oscar Levants,
Orson Welles, Gabriel Pascal, Artie Shaw
and his wife Kathleen ( Forever Amber)
Winsor, Erich Maria Remarque There
are also memories of his early days in
Budapest when he lived in state in a pub
and had a huge green table to drink and
write on ; and of an early love-affair, the
girl calling his name as she was being
whipped by her husband, and Molnar
not present; and of some of his experi-
ences as a war-correspondent during the
First World War; altogether “very
tragical mirth; hot ice, and wondrous
cold snow,”
The Scottish Himalayan Expedition:
W. H. Murray (Dent). The narrative oi
four Scottish mountaineers who in l“' u
strolled up and down various hillocks in
the Kumaon district between Tibet an
west Nepal. With goats, flies, coolies-
bears, wild irises and rhododendrons,
snowy landscapes in prose and photo-
graphs, and a good deal of getting lost
in blizzards, failing over precipices, et •
Likeable, unpretentious and adventurous.
g. jjj ;£ t
Bouquets for Fleet-street: Bernard Falk
(Hutchinson). A rich, crowded and highly
entertaining volume in which Mr. Far*
two previous autobiographies, ti
Laughed in Fleet-street and Five Years
Dead, are revised and amplified. Nota Du-
ties by the score walk through i
Baldwin, Bernard Shaw, D. H. Lawrenc ,
Edgar Wallace, Beaverbrook, Northcline,
Sickert, Augustus John—ancl Mr. r
always has something pointed and P* -
to say about them.
THREE MEN AND SYDNEY... NANCY KEESING
What is this place of grey streets, grey mortar
and slate or green sparkling harbor
but a. bulwark, a bastion sprawled unengineered,
place to be greatly loved and greatly feared,
thrust out of time by time’s inconsequent hands
between the hot breath of the west and the cool
mouth of the water?
What is its power? How does it come that men
from the blue and yellow north and the granite
south
walk in its streets and jeer and speak their hate,
spawn in its sooty rooms, and then too late
return to their coral bays, their haggard hills
without rest or satisfaction, pack up, and return
again.
One friend I made, an unhypocritical man
he seemed to me like a ship, held a straight
course
had a ship’s direct black frown for compromise,
and after a year had a mouth full of glib lies
and a soul like a sail tattered, not by clean wind
but by a sailor’s bungling while the storm ran.
While, as with a vessel stowed with contraband,
at first glance there was little to betray
the changed cargo, still looked trim, well-found;
or to suspect: this vessel will run aground
at its next sailing and put in a false claim,
will break up and defile some sea-clean strand.
Or the bell-tongued giant who, though he had
his birth
elsewhere, was wholly in fact an Australian man
until his voice altered, and ceased to sing
its pleasantly-tuned sincerities, cracked to ring
in deeper tones than it was intended for
a coarse harsh imitation of a kind of mirth
that was foreign to his own nature, which was
clean;
simple it may be, but simple beautifully,
la what crooked alley was he induced to laud
a foreign complication, to play at bawd
(which, proper within itself, has its own part)
while the incongruous disciple is merely obscene.
As to the third man, he’s at the gate of the city
which is gateless, he stands on one of the
stalwart bridges
and speaks the blistering truths of the hot sun,
while, decked over, the waters slap and run,
damp geometrical shadows change and fade.
He thinks himself a challenger—roars at pity
and shouts: lam here, mine’s the new voice,
the start,
I am the Integrator, sea and land
merge and fuse in my brain and Mood, I
say..,.
I listen to him, the echoes sob away.
She waits, somewhere, some time, beneath some
roof
for the bitter wrangle with his ignorant heart . ..
Late-comers to old shores, no goddess stands
beside our monolith lighthouse; learned in time
no sages reduced or oversimplified
the place’s intricate nature, or ever tried
with living-dead outmoded words to define
sovereignty to her legion subtle hands.
Grey Sydney spreads at night slow panting, still,
and with each breath the jewel upon her breast
—that ominous opal—rises and subsides
with various colors, diadem of tides
that flow to charge its fire from sea and moon.
Stone, colder than stone, with power to distil
and suck a man’s life into its flashing strange
colors. It is said such stones bring evil luck,
and I, being reared to despise all superstition,
choiceless have seen and suffered the transition
of these three friends and nowhere else have
sensed
myself so near the origins of their change.


ft
(\
-/7 s..
f
m.
=fr
mm
JC
iM
:■■■ :
SI is
: :
■
m
m
: ■
: -
wm
/>
■ ■
y
V .
mmm
»2
-m-
-\N
g?i
A Cordial Invitation to Visit
OUR
ca|Bi
S
Again this year we are making a special display
of modern furniture designed by Miss Joyce Brown of
A.B.C. Radio fame, our furniture designer and furnishings
consultant. We want you to see this display and enjoy the surprises
we have in store for you, so we won’t be giving away secrets now. But we can
say we are going to feature home furnishings again with furnished rooms as well as individual displays.
A Host of New Furniture Ideas
Based on the World*s Leading Designs!
Much of Miss Brown’s ideas are based on overseas
designs following her recent trip to these countries: United
Kingdom, America, France, Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland,
Finland and Italy. Included in the display are many
printed furnishing fabrics which have been purchased by Miss
Brown in Sweden. Interior colour schemes depict the
latest American trends.
• Furniture • Furnishings • Electrical Appliances
• Carpets and Rugs • Agricultural
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
»
sd
m
mb \
m
gyp
m
m
m
m
These photographs illustrate some of our past displays.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’—TELEPHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT). BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY—BRICKFIELD HILL


THE DRUM
by J.E. MACDONNELL
HE saw the school door was open.
It was not, of course, the door he
had known—one panel kicked in,
the rest of it the same dusty color
as the wooden veranda dyed by the slap
of countless bare and dusty feet —nor did
it lead into the same classroom. But
the yard was about the same. From
where he had stopped his car on this
home-town visit to the Downs after
twenty years, the yard reached bare and
brown and hard, and, on this hot Satur-
day afternoon, empty, back under its
boundaries of plane- and camphor-
laurel-trees. The difference was in the
lavatories; here modern brown-brick
edifices replaced the old wooden tin-
roofs, and the cylindrical masts at either
end betrayed their sewerage. No fun
here with rear trapdoors and stinging-
nettles.
With somewhat the same feeling of
guilt he remembered when late for
school, with the vociferous playground
multitude confined inside in disciplined
quiet, he opened the new Cyclone gate
and stole to the door.
Almost at once he knew there was
nothing for him in this tall, airy, cool
and lined room to recapture; with its
green set-in blackboards and ordered
array of desks it was as much like his
schoolroom as his city office.
He turned to go ; and with a crash in
his mind as though it had boomed:
“Here! Here I am! ”he saw the drum.
Leaning on a desk, he looked at it,
hiding in the corner, dusty, unused —and
imagination, taking up the thread of
thought, shot its swift shuttle back across
the years, weaving a picture on their
dimness so vivid in its detail that he
could almost think he had triumphed
over Time, and that his vision had
brought to life the dead past —the
memory of a dog, of a derelict, and of
the fact that his boyhood idol had once
shown himself, publicly, to be a coward.
He picked up one of the ebony sticks
and lightly tapped tl?e drumhead where
the lines radiated from its worn, yellow
centre. He smiled. With the tap the
enclosed quiet of the classroom opened
out, fell away to a sunlit landscape where
a boy and his dog crept carefully along
a sandstone-ridge, golden with a froth of
wattle-blossom' between the tall white
gums. The boy crept, but the dog merely
eased his pace, not because he was trained
to, but to keep beside him, for he was not
a hunting-dog, except by instinct.
THE stalker carried in one hand a pea-
rifle with a wire seizing round the
butt, and used his other to brush
alternately the low wattle-branches aside,
a tuft of brown hair from his eyes, and
to hitch-up his father’s trousers.
Then the wallaby jumped. The boy
brought his rifle up and the dog tore
yelping after the bounding ball of brown.
“Come back. Tiger! Tiger!”
The boy dodged round trees and bushes
trying for a clear shot, yelling at the dog
and making the wallaby go faster. It
showed for a moment against a green
patch of gumtips. The rifle cracked as a
black-and-white body hurtled in pursuit;
a sharp yelp chased the shot’s echo
across the ridges. Tiger had collected
the best half of a ricocheting .22 slug
in the black part of his rump.
He stumbled, whimpering, towards the
boy. Jim ran to his dog, and when he
saw the blood the walls of his chest
seemed to close in and choke him. It
was a nasty gash, but Tiger was making
more of it than a true hunting-dog would
have.
Jim wrapped a handkerchief spotted
with gun-grease round the dog’s rump,
slung his rifle and picked him up in his
arms. He sobbed a little as he ran and
stumbled up the ridge-back. It was a
good two miles home, and his arms and
back were leaden with weight when he
got there.
His mother saw him coming up the
long front veranda steps.
“My Heavens,” she said to the baby
and the cats. “.What’s he been up to
now?”
He looked a sight. Tears caked with
dirt streaked his freckled face, and a
smear of blood from his wet hand crossed
his forehead and stuck the points of the
refractory tuft together. His khaki shirt,
too, was red where Tiger’s rump rubbed
it. Mum threw the wiping-cloth on the
polished dining-room table —a sure sign
of agitation—as she hurried
through and took the dog
from his little arms.
“Mum,” he sobbed.
“Mum. Tiger’s been shot.”
Mum 1 o ok e d down
shrewdly at the scarred
spade-head. Tiger felt the
questioning glance and
wriggled. Nevertheless, she
laid him gently on a clean
bag on the scrubbed
veranda.
“Mr. Kent’s up the back
with Dad. Run and get
him.”
Jim tore through the house, and in a
minute was back with Mr. Kent, rolling
his sleeves up. Mr. Kent was the kennel-
man from Stuart-street across the green,
and he knew more about dogs than there
are commas in the Bible, as Dad said.
Though not even Mr. Kent, when Tiger
joined the Northam household as a
shivering pup, could define with accuracy
the breed or number of his parents. One
day Jim saw a pack of hunting-dogs on
a grocer’s calendar. “Beagles Hunting in
the Cotswolds,” said the caption ; there
was no doubt about the resemblance of
those long-eared hounds to Tiger. So
beagle Tiger was.
Mr. Kent sent the boy away and knelt
down. A minute’s probing and wiping, a
little yelp and it was over. Mum sighed
with relief and called:
“Come on, pet. He’s all right now.”
Jim came out of the hall and the dog’s
ears perked and he looked up quickly. It
was time to make it up to Jim. He
leaped to his feet, and stood there
trembling for a second, then bounded into
his arms and began licking his face. Jim
muttered over and over:
“My little ole puppy-dog,” and the
tears flowed down his cheeks and Tiger
licked the tears away. Sleepy Sunday
peace settled once more over the
Northams’ place,
I T was a big house with a big yard.
I With four boys ranging from two to
sixteen, a girl, a dog, three cats, twenty
fowls and six ducks it had to be. Of
wood once painted cream, now yellow,
the house perched on posts twelve-feet
high, shortening to stumps at the back
under the kitchen to allow for the slope
of the land, where a small boy could
comfortably crawl in the pregnant,
earthy dark and a vengeful big brother
could intrude no more than his nose.
Around the house itself—the back-
yard extended away into four acres of
grass known as the Side Paddock and the
Back Paddock—towered the father of all
hedges, which served two purposes: it
kept out the howling winter westerlies
which came slewing across the hill-
cupped town, and, by interlacing the
immediate precincts of the house with a
tangled maze of roots, effectively pre-
vented the growth of any form of
plant-life apart from grass and two
hardy cactus plants whose chief object
in fife was to receive the arrows from
Jim’s hedge-branch bow. Beyond the
Back Paddock the swelling grassland
scalloped to the eight-hundred-feet breast
of Tick Hill.
Once upon a time—to be more
precise, it was an hour after the tea
things were cleared aWay-—Mum noticed
an unwonted quietness in her brood, and
that the breakfast-room door was shut.
She walked quietly to the door. From
inside came guarded murmurs of delight
and a muted “Here, boy!” Then, as
Mum’s hand reached the door-knob, an
almighty crash, a frantic scuffling and
Jim’s voice “Now we’re in for it!” Mum
opened the door.
She saw the vase first, or what was left
of it, and the maiden-hair fern and water
making a dark stain oh the green baize
tablecloth. Then she saw the pup. He
crouched on the table, his guilt plain to
see, a poor shivering little waif with a
black head and ears. The rest of him
was white except for a black saddle that
seemed to be slipping off and a black
stocking on his right hind-leg. His tail
with its wedge-chopped end stuck up like
a miniature telegraph-pole. His liquid-
brown eyes looked from one to the other,
always back to Mum’s hostile glare, and
as she stepped forward his little body
crouched and trembled. He looked round
again, quickly, and, still crouching, crept
on little legs across the
table to Jim. Jim put his
hand on his head and the
pup stopped trembling;
the ways of a dog and a
boy are mysterious.
“Don’t hit him, Mum.
It’s my fault. I called him
and he knocked the vase,
Mum. He couldn’t help
it, honest. I found him on
the green an’ he was cold
and shivery an’ he
hasn’t got anywhere to
go. An’ I’ve never had
a dog, Mum. Oh, Mum, don’t hit him! ”
Mum put her hand out and laid it on
the velvet-black head. A little pink
tongue crept out and licked it.
“Get him out of this room at once,”
she said, and turned her head aside.
“Put him in the washhouse on a bag.
And if I ever catch him in this room
again I’ll tan the hide off both of you! ”
SUNDAY-NIGHT tea was laid in the
breakfast-room. A large room
painted green, it was flanked by big glass
sliding windows, one of which led
handily out on to the rain-tank manhole.
In the corner opposite the door was Jim’s
oldest brother’s wireless-set, made in the
washhouse. An old couch covered with
a chaffbag rug overlaid with bright-
flowered chintz waited under the
windows, and behind the door was
Mum’s ironing-board, a wooden clothes-
horse made by the wireless expert at the
sawmill, and a huge pile of yellowing
grocer’s and electric-light bills made by
all.
Places at the table were permanent;
Dad one end, Mum, near the bread-board
and butter, the other ; Jim handy to Dad’s
right hand, the others on either side and
Tiger and the cats fighting for position in
the passage outside. The family believed
in the scriptural maxim that those are
helped who help themselves, and through
all the clamor and chaff and entreaties
for more butter Dad masticated his genial
way, brown-faced, well-bellied, a pair of
old khaki trousers and shirt on his body
and a permanent ink-stain from the post-
office on his finger.
After tea, when grace had been said —
Dad said grace after meals, for he believed
God appreciated thanks more than
petitions—plenty of light lingered in the
sky, and there was still time to go and
see Old Peter.
Jim was tacitly excused wiping-up
tonight because of his harrowing experi-
ence, and before the last mouthful of
banana-custard met the corned-beef he
was out of the gate, a miraculously-
revived Tiger beside him, and whistling
with the penetration of a railway-engine
for Charlie Harper, A quarter of a mile
away across the paddock echoed a return
whistle; but Charlie had no claim to
exemption, and it was ten minues before
his midget figure came hurrying through
the grass, nearly as high as himself.
“Hyah, Jim!”
“Hyah, Charlie!”
“Hyah, Tiger!”
After which cryptic exchanges the
three friends moved off towards Peter
Vickers’s hut. Tiger sniffing and
scrambling and jumping around and
ahead of them.
Old Peter was the town outcast. Tall,
gaunt and stoop-shouldered, he was
normally dirty and unshaven, except on
Sunday evenings, wheu his two only
friends came to listen to his stories. They
had been friends ever since the day Jim
and Charlie sat down near the bark
shanty on the edge of the range overlook-
ing the Brisbane road, ready to howl be-
cause it was only nine o’clock of a
glorious bush morning, and the second
round of their pea-rifle had jammed in
the breech and it looked as if the day
would be spent mooching round the
house. So miserable were the hunters
they did not hear the step beside them,
until Tiger came running from the spring
and growled. They looked up and saw
Old Peter, unshaven and smelling of rum,
his face scored like a gully. Yet someho-’
they weren’t afraid. Peter bent carefully
down and asked in his deep voice, vibrant
still, which could have been the voice
of a sergeant of Marines, “What’s up,
sonny?”
I IM held up the gun. “The shell’s
jammed, Mr. Vickers.”
Mister Vickers ! He took the gun in his
dirt-grimed hand and bent closely down
to look at it, so that his face was hidden.
It was a long time since anyone in the
town had called him Mister. Usually it
was Old Holler Bones, because he was
the town-drunk, and boys threw stones
on his tin-roof and turned his water-
tap on when he was lying doped on his
chaffbag stretcher. The good townfolk
said he’d sooner run a mile to tell a lie
than sit down and tell the truth. But
Old Peter didn’t tell lies ; just tall stories,
and if they weren’t exactly the truth.
well, the truth can stand a lot of punish-
ment. The boys had never spoken to him
before.
“You know much about guns, Mr.
Vickers?” Charlie asked, kneeling beside
him.
“Why, yes, sonny,” said Old Peter,
working with a bit of fencing-wire at the
rim of the cartridge, and succumbing at
once. “Once X was in the King’s Navy
and had 3000 guns in my charge.” He
expected the boys to laugh, but they
looked at him wide-eyed. Glad of the
chance, he went on:
“That was up the Yang-tse Kiang” (he
pronounced it “Yank-si Chang,” which
unfamiliar though right-sounding name
rocketed him at once above the stature
of Mr. Randon, the geography master)
“when we was after gun-runners from
Saigon. D’ you know,” asked Old Peter
intently, “what those yeller-eyed heathens
woulder done to me if they caught me?”
“Wha-at?”
“They’d ’a’ filled me as full of bamboo-
needles as a porcupine ! Now, when we
came across their camp by the river we
snuk alongside and called on ’em to sur-
render. Not they! Up y’r jumper, fr
ours, they shouted in their own lingo.
So we let ’em have it. As near as that
bluegum they was. And when it was
over, and five hundred of the yeller devils
laid flat on the ground, I went ashore
and collected their guns. Do I know
much about guns? Why, I minds the
time” The boys’ faces were bright
as light-globes as they listened to story
after story, staring up into the bleary old
face, oblivious of the rummy breath and
the hot sun climbing up the sky. It was
Tiger’s impatience which broke the spell.
“Holy smoke!” burst Jim. “Mum’ll
be after me! ”
Since then Old Peter had taken them
to every corner of the Seven Seas. And,
strangely enough, his descriptions seemed
not in the least at variance with the
jungles of South America and the snowy
wastes of the Arctic as depicted by the
roving writers who filled the adventurous
pages of Chums and the Boys’ Own
Annual; whereby, regardless of the
taunts of the townsfolk, his prestige in
the boys’ eyes was considerably enhanced.
TONIGHT Peter was ready for
them with a clean face and hands
and a nearly-clean shirt. He had eased
up on the rum-bottle since the boys’ ad-
vent. At first it racked his body and
seemed to tear his stomach fibres with
the longing for its pungent bite. But one
fear kept him almost sober. He believed
that if Mrs. Northam knew that the boys
were spending Sunday evening with him
she would put a stop to their visits at
once.
Tonight he had decided on cowboys;
here he shone. With picturesque verve
he took them over the stretching prairies,
rescued maidens from burning stockades,
scalped Indians with the best of ’em, rode
and fought, chased and was chased until
he had his young listeners in a perfect
fidget of delight. But, most tremendous
of all, he actually knew a man who had
fought alongside Wild Bill Cody him-
self.
The three of them and the dog sat there
in silence, the boys digesting the latest
adventure and the old reprobate con-
sidering whether he’d done it justice. The
moon rose from behind the crest of the
range, first setting its fanged edge alive
with a running flame of orange light,
then climbing into sight, growing in size
and paling as it rose, flooding the wooded
valley below with silent silver.
Jim and Charlie climbed reluctantly
to their feet.
“Good night, Mr. Vickers. I’m real
glad you beat Chief Hawkeye with that
('Continued on page 14.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No 37 Rd
Wednesday , April 2, 1952
THE GAME—AND THE ONLOOKERS.


THe Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
i- t .u wu-a m
Australia tor the Wh.le Man
n .
H K Prior reC 8 p H Prior
David Adams K. 3. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Queensland: 2.SPAdSe’slSet, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings { opposite
G P. 0.), Wellington.
PACIFIC PACT PITFALLS.
On March 20 the United States Senate
ratified five treaties —the Japanese Peace
Treaty, the United-States-Japanese
Security Pact and mutual defence pacts
with Australia and New Zealand and the
Philippines.
On the day on which the treaties
were before the Senate General Ridgway,
no alarmist, declared that the Soviet
Union had finished building a huge
military force in Siberia and was pre-
pared for military action against Japan
at any time. He said there were 5000
Soviet fighter-aircraft in Siberia, a fleet
of submarines in the Sea of Japan, and
the Japanese Communists were paving
the way for a People’s Front and for a
sequence of events similar to that which
ended in the Communist capture of
China. They were attempting to organise
themselves into key industrial and trans-
port unions, and, by the formation of
cells, to destroy the morale of the
Japanese and their power, and the power
of the Americans, to defend Japan in case
of attack. The process is the same as rhat
which has been carried out in Australia
for years; a process which the “Labor”
party made possible by its adherence to
the principle of “hands off the unions,”
even in treason.
The Pacific defence pacts, to come
into force at once, envisage the
creation of a Pacific Defence Council
to implement the undertakings of
the U.S., the Commonwealth, N.Z.
and the Philippines, to create a joint de-
fence staff, define the role of each
signatory and arrange for the joint use of
naval, air and military bases. And some
authorities in Washington are anxious
that there should be provision for a
permanent political committee.
Whatever the merits of the scheme,
it is one which needs -close ex-
amination by the Australian Parlia-
ment at all stages of its develop-
ment and a very wary acceptance of some
of its phases. The idea that there should
be a permanent political committee
orienting the policies of the Pacific and
its approaches without Canadian and
British members present is not very
practical. And neither is any defence
scheme for the Pacific which is not
integrated with the Atlantic and Middle
East schemes, to which it must be sub-
ordinate.
Australian defence is already
integrated with British defence to a
degree almost absolute. The Admiralty
and the Australian Navy Board are
virtually two parts of a single institution.
Our arms and ships at sea are British,
British officers and Australian officers
serve interchangeably in the R.N. and
R.A.N., Australians in Korea serve under
a British divisional commander and use
British arms. The overall Common-
wealth C.-in-C. in the Japan area is Aus-
tralian. And Australia seems likely to
become the centre of British atomic re-
search carried on in conjunction with our
own Government. Yet it is proposed to
have a separate arrangement with the
United States and the Philippines about
Pacific defence, and if this is carried out
along * the lines which are suggested it
must in many respects be boarded off
from any effort by a united British
Commonwealth.
Why in the light of world
conditions any such prearrangement
and definite separate commitment is
necessary it is difficult to say, since
theoretically the United Nations exists for
exactly the same purpose and is actually
operating for the same purpose in Korea.
But the whole scheme was born in the
period of muddled thinking when Dr.
Evatt was head of the External Affairs
Department.
It, of course, goes without saying that
Australia should stand shoulder to
shoulder with the United States in the
Pacific in the face of such a common
danger as the threat by Soviet Russia ;
but at the same time it should
be remembered that our interests
are still those of the British Com-
monwealth and that we must at all
costs avoid any agreements which bring
us automatically into a war because an-
other nation has been drawn into war.
Also seems a matter of importance
‘ h w a ‘ strictly preserve its
own t° rel g n policy and concert with the
Brjtish Common^ea , thj £oJ ,
spect of American foreign policy and its
administration during the past 10 years
has not Provided a very satisfying assur-
ance about what the future holds.
* _ The United States kept aloof from the
European war until forced into action by
surprise attack which took it unawares in
fP\ t& J»fJcnowiedge of what was brew-
mg. then assumed dominance of Allied
policy, brushing aside the experienced
advice of Europeans outside Russia,
which country its President felt he could
“handle,” the outcome being the Yalta
and Potsdam agreements, plus the United
Nations Organisation.
It was the United States policy which
divided Germany, which gave Russia the
means to make the Baltic a Soviet Sea
and East Germany a Soviet State It
gave Russia Poland and the Balkan
countries.
It was the United States that allowed
Russia to take over Manchuria and all
its huge arms potential (which belonged
to the Allies in general), which gave them
Dairen under an agreement that was
flagrantly broken, and which trustingly
handed them the Kuriles and Saghalien
(enabling the Soviet to half-surround
northern Japan and threaten North
Pacific sea communications), which also
gave them half Korea. It was an
American arrangement which enabled
the Communist Chinese to Red-ant
Chiang Kai-shek’s China. And it is
American policy which has given the key-
note to relations in post-war Japan, where,
during the Occupation, the effort has
been to establish the basis of a U.S.
monopoly trade with Japan and a
preferential internal position based on
American rights first to lease Japanese
facilities.
Nobody questions the enthusiastic will
of the United States people to do good
i n the world, but this finds expression
in the most alarming ways and in pro-
viding conditions for the advance of
Communism on the Asiatic mainland,
The U.S. gave the extra push which
expelled the Dutch from Indonesia,
Militarily it may strengthen our posi-
tion to be associated with the United
States, independently of the United
Kingdom and the rest of the British
Commonwealth, outside New Zealand,
But diplomatically it may be anything
but an advantage on the basis of past
experience,
it seems on the face of it that the type
of agreement which has been adopted
f or the creation of a Pacific defence
organisation is calculated to divide the
British Commonwealth to some extent
and to divert energy which should be
applied to British-zone consolidation to
helping the Americans to consolidate a
position of dominance. It is a policy to
which the feeble Attlee Government
tended, one which Mr. Churchill’s new
Government seems inclined to resist.
though it does not interfere with the
Dominions and accepts their courses of
action as inevitable. Canada’s stand is in
contrast to that of Australia and N.Z.
it has its defence arrangements with the
United States as it has with Britain, but
j t avoids joint political committees with
the U.S. on international policy. Bar
actual attack on the American continent,
it has no blanket commitments to engage
j n a ny war in which the United States
may become involved and no agreements
on policy which are likely to involve it
i n American diplomacy and American
diplomatic mistakes. On every possible
occasion it makes its independence and
freedom from joint political entangle-
ments very clear. And this is im-
portant to our own policy in view of the
enormous growth which is bound to
take place in Canadian population and
influence in the next generation.
This Overtime Ban.
The stricken condition of Australian
industry in the toils of the system for
computing the basic wage is aggravated
by the really alarming affliction that
nobody appears to have the slightest idea
of how to deal with the trouble —short of
letting everything run to a dead stop. The
system appears otherwise to fix inflation
upon us for all time ; it has produced the
psychological frame of mind which re-
gards a cheapening of prices as a reason
for reducing wages, and any effort to
reduce prices therefore as “encouraging
another depression,” and so anathema.
But the basic-wage system thus formu-
lated does not even fix wages, and is
economically nothing but a pain in the
neck ; that is shown by the current union
rejection of awards on marginal wages
for tradesmen as insufficient if not equal
to some arbitrary proportional excess
over the basic-wage element.
For nearly five months a conference of
employers and unions called by the
Chief Judge of the Federal Arbitration
Court has been shadow-sparring with the
Chief Judge’s proposed alternative to
hearing claims for a reversion to the
44-hour week: namely, that the two sides
in industry should thrash out a com-
promise. The Chief Judge set out the
field as he saw it on the widest projec-
tion. The Arbitration Court, as the in-
dustrial legislature, could then confirm
agreements made and make law of them
in a way denied to either State Govern-
ments, lacking harmony, or the Com-
monwealth Government, lacking indus-
trial powers.
The whole design is affected by certain
weaknesses. Although the Arbitration
Court (in the late basic-wage case)
declared itself to be the industrial legisla-
ture, its “legislation” is flouted by any
union which likes to strike against it;
its decisions affect questions which are
constantly treated by the parties as of
political character, inviting reference to
partisan Governments, State or Com-
monwealth ; and the court even, as in
the 40-hour case, allowed argument
from Governments to influence in some
measure its declared judgment, and said
so. A further weakness is that, save for
occasional obiter dicta from the Bench
about the incompatibility of compulsory
arbitration and “the right to strike” as
co-existent union privileges, nothing has
really been done by way of protecting
the court’s decisions from defiance by
any union which, having failed to secure
all it wished in an award, proceeds to
use industrial violence in resisting it.
From the time the parties rejected the
Chief Judge’s agenda for the conference
and retired to prepare their own, their
peace negotiations have looked about as
hopeless as those for an armistice in
Korea. In the middle of the business Mr.
Conciliation Commissioner Galvin re-
jected the metal-trades employees’ claim
(a test case) for doubling the current
marginal awards, and refused any in-
crease in margins at all. The same Com-
missioner had previously chided employers
for individual action in paying super-
award wages in the course of bidding for
skilled labor against each other, thus
cruelling the arbitration-pitch.
The Galvin decision spotlighted the flaw
in Dr. Evatt’s “streamlined” arbitration
amendments of 1948, when the Doctor
refused pleas for including appeals from
conciliation commissioners’ decisions. It
revealed also the absurdity of dividing
official wage-fixing into two separate
departments-—basic wage with the court
and marginal wages with the commis-
sioners, without relation between them or
appeal from either. The unions promptly
set about the usual resistance to an award
not in their favor. The metal-trades
union announced that it would
“approach” employers individually to
extort the wage-rates refused by the
commissioner; another union, the
A.E.U., simultaneously sought in the
High Court a writ to prohibit the parts
of the Galvin award they objected to ;
and several unions, including the A.E.U.
and the metal-workers, also declared a
ban on overtime at power-stations in
Melbourne and Yallourn, and proposed
extending it in Adelaide and other places.
Meanwhile the A.C.T.U. wrangled with
executives of the unions named —it is not
surprising that Communist officials in
those unions were to the fore—over
the question of “controlling” the
overtime-ban, styled “a dispute.” The
A.C.T.U. evinced no great opposition to
the action itself, but was obliged to make
some show of orderly conduct, for its
emissaries were supposed to be thrash-
ing out an industrial peace-treaty with an
employers’ committee in Chief Judge
Kelly’s conference.
A meeting of the conference parties on
the margins question last weekend was
ruptured when the employers’ repre-
sentatives told the A.C.T.U. that they
would discuss union claims only if strike-
bans were immediately called off; that
the strikers were defying the lawful
authority ; that the unions had for years
got everything they asked for and em-
ployers had “had to take it,” and some
reciprocity was now due from the
unions; and that the proper constitu-
tional remedy, which employers would
join the A.C.T.U. in seeking, is an
amendment of the Arbitration Act to
allow appeal to the court from com-
missioners’ findings. This seems to rein-
force an impression that in the new con-
ditions of financial austerity the
opportunities for industrial blackmail by
unions of individual employers are not
what they used to be.
Even while the A.C.T.U. was rejecting
the offer of this joint action from the
employers, the Melbourne Trades Hall
put pressure on Premier McDonald
in Victoria to persuade an Arbitration
Court judge to hear an appeal from the
Galvin award. This the Chief Judge,
who not unnaturally was “amazed,” re-
fused to do as outside his powers under
the “Labor”-amended Act.
The strike thereafter was extended to
N.S.W. railway workshops.
Apart from putting themselves flag-
rantly in the wrong by defying one
court, appealing to another and using
“direct action” all at once, the unions are
making a farce of the Chief Judge’s con-
ference, and in doing so they appear to
overlook that they are strengthening the
employers’ original case for a revision of
the 40-hour week. A review of that
decision is surely on general grounds
overdue. The Chief Judge’s whole
approach to the problem in calling his
conference carries an implied admission
of the plain fact that the 40-hour week
is not being worked.
But the employers’ case is now
strengthened by the unions’ ban on over-
time, for the 40-hour judgment expressly
declared that “reasonable overtime” shall
be worked at the requirement of the
employer. The court ordered that this
condition of the 40-hour concession
should be written into each award. The
particular paragraphs run:
(7) In each award... .there shall be in-
serted provisions:
(i) empowering any employer to require
any employee to work reasonable over-
time at overtime rates and providing
that the employee shall work overtime
in accordance with such requirement;
(ii) providing that no organisation, party
to the award, shall In any way, whether
directly or indirectly, he a party to or
concerned in any ban, limitation or re-
striction upon the working of overtime
in accordance with the requirements of
such provision.
These provisions were ordered to be
written by conciliation commissioners
into every award as it was adjusted to
meet the reduction of normal weekly
working hours. The court’s judgment
declared that the exigencies of industry
would necessitate a certain amount of
overtime’s befog worked.
Significantly, perhaps, the ban on over-
time, thus forbidden, has been launched
against Government employers.
Running Out of Tucker.
Astonishing as man’s development is
when measured against the length of his
known history, what he has achieved in
the past 50 years and the vista opened to
his wondering eyes by the discoveries of
science and philosophy make anything
seem possible. Yet man is, assuming that
he survives, no more than in the early
dawn of his history.
“Assuming that he survives” is a much
more relevant condition now than it was
50 years ago, for there is plenty of evid-
ence that man stands a very good chance
of literally eating himself off the earth.
At the beginning of this century the
estimated population of the world was
about 1750 million people. Latest U.N.O.
figures make it now 2400 million. Which
means that there are now nearly 650
million more people than there were 50
years ago. Further UJS.O. figures make
the daily human birth-rate 75,000 more
than the death-rate, or nearly a net in-
crease of 28 million a year. In other
words, the world population is now in-
creasing at the rate of well over three
times the population of Australia every
year, and the rate itself is increasing.
In the fairly recent past plague and
famine kept the population down. The
Black Death of the 14th century almost
depopulated Europe. Asia for centuries
was almost synonymous with plague and
famine. Famine still occurs, though its
effects have been reduced by modern
transport, and plague has been almost
entirely conquered by medical science.
Expectation of life, at least among the
white races, has improved from about 35
years to about 65 in that same 300 years.
The foregoing doesn’t mean that
starvation stares this generation in the
face. All the same, it indicates that man s
time on earth, unless he does something
about increasing his food-supplies or re-
ducing the population-increase or both, is
distinctly limited. Man shares with the
lower animals the instincts of self-
preservation and race-propagation. He
is superior to the animals in wisdom and
foresight. It is contrary to both his in-
stincts and religious beliefs wilfully to
suppress his own multiplication.
It may be that, along with the develop-
ments of which man is capable in othci
fields, he will find some means of vastly
extending his food-supplies. He’d better
hurry up about it or he will find himself
in the same position as a plague of mice
which, after devouring everything else m
the vicinity, falls to cannibalism and thus
finishes itself off.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Metropolitan Cement.
Inquiries in Sydney have revealed that
Metropolitan Portland Cement, Ltd., has
been allowed by Prices Minister Finnan’s
department to charge £l2 13s. 3d. a ton
for cement delivered in the metro-
politan area. This compares with £8 Bs.
allowed to be charged by other N.S.W.
companies. Cement, of course, is still a
scarce material.
Rarely has a commercial enterprise
been treated by “Labor” with such tender
concern for its difficulties as has Metro-
politan Cement. Certainly not the gas
companies, which aren’t even being
allowed to do what their regulating
legislation led them to believe they could
do. Their essential service is daily be-
coming more decrepit because they are
not getting enough revenue, over and
above increasing labor and coal costs, to
maintain and extend their services.
Dividend of the biggest of them has
shrunk to a fraction of the 6 p.c. osten-
sibly permitted to be paid by it under
the N.S.W. Gas and Electricity Act.
Metropolitan Cement, on the other
hand, has had a number of political favors.
The Chifley “Labor” Government in
1948 allocated to the company
“81,189,110 for the purchase of a com-
plete plant from the Ford Company of
the U.S.A., despite the grave deficiency
of dollars.” The Bulletin drew atten-
tion to features of the Metro-
politan Cement float at the time, and
the issue was raised in the Federal House
by Joe Abbott, M.P.; in reply Prime
Minister Chifley and Raymond G.
Hamilton, State “Labor” member for
Namoi at the time and a director of
Metropolitan Cement, both referred to
the “vested interests” of the existing
cement companies as having inspired the
comment on Metropolitan Cement. It is
a stock sort of retort from “Labor”
politicians.
After three years of plant-assembly
and running-in The Bulletin is perfectly
satisfied with what it has said previously
about Metropolitan Cement. Nothing like
the prospectus estimates have been
achieved. The principle behind Metro-
politan’s manufacturing plan was to bring
the chief raw-materials, mainly coal and
limestone, to the plant, not to take the
plant to the raw-materials, as other com-
panies have chosen to do.
The company aimed to get into pro-
duction at the rate of 150,000 tons a
year on a capital outlay of £BOO,OOO.
Actually, at December 31, 1950, the
company owed the McGirr “Labor”
Government’s Rural Bank £1,302,745, and
outlay on cement works, quarries, col-
lieries, etc,, totalled £2,135,974. One of
the biggest vested interests in Metro-
politan Cement is now obviously the
Rural Bank. What the amount owing to
it at December 31 last was will not be
known until the latest accounts are pub-
lished (last year accounts were not pre-
sented until seven months after the books
closed, which is at least twice as long as
the average concern takes to report to its
shareholders). The company has been
talking about raising more capital, but
with its £1 ordinary shares at 12s. 6d.
in the sharemarket it would find that
operation extremely difficult.
The output of Metropolitan Cement,
whatever it is, will be welcome to the
N.S.W. construction industry. But so
would increased output from many other
industries at present feeling the heavy
hand of price-control. Would Mr.
Finnan be so kind as to consider their
cases, and, if he thought it might provide
an additional incentive to production,
allow them as much as 50 p.c. above the
basic prices permitted now? That is
what Metropolitan Cement is getting
compared with others in its industry.
N. S. Wales rural industries, especially
dairying and wheatgrowing, would be
keenly responsive to similar differential
price treatment, especially as it has been
long contended that more profitable
wool prices have drained manpower
from the food-producing areas.
President Truman Retires.
American public opinion leans against
long terms for Presidents, and only one,
Roosevelt, in 163 years has gone more
than two terms. In modern times the
strain of office has increased to such an
extent that he would be a glutton indeed
who would hanker for more, especially
since Presidents tend to be elderly.
Mr, Truman will have completed seven
years of office on April 12, and on May 8
will be 68 years old. His voluntary
retirement from the campaign will relieve
the Democratic party of the responsibility
for his administration, which, though
energetic, has not always been tactful in
international affairs, and has been some-
times tainted with the Middle Western
outlook of scorn for foreign nations and
a tendency to overestimate the influence
of the Almighty Dollar in world politics.
It has also been the subject of heavy
criticism for the scandals which have
grown up around individuals close to the
President, some of them now under
investigation, of which the results will
certainly be bandied about in the Presi-
dential campaign.
To the British Commonwealth, how-
ever, President Truman has been a good
friend.
Mr. Adlai Stevenson, Governor of
Illinois, and Senator Estes Kefauver, both
friends of Truman, have been mentioned
as possible successors. But there is still
room for other Democratic aspirants to
appear.
On the Republican side the chances
now favor General Eisenhower almost
to the point of certainty, but he still has
to show his mettle as a campaigner, and,
with the Labor vote always now ranged
behind the Democrats, will have a hard
row to hoe. Moreover, whatever world
reputation General Eisenhower may have,
he has to face a national distrust of
military Presidents which has persisted
since the days of Grant. The Republi-
cans, even with a strong candidate like
Mr. Dewey, have not elected a President
since 1929.
The Great Bedtime-story.
Some enterprising firm ought to reprint
for general reading in handy form the
judgment, with reasons, by the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court Full Bench in
the 40-hour-week case, first published on
September 8, 1947.
It makes as entertaining reading as
many a romance of the day, with the
additional interest that there is no caveat
against the reader’s identifying the
characters with persons in real-life. On
the contrary. Some of those whose
opinions are here recorded must wear red
faces today as they re-read their enrol-
ment in this scroll of fame. There was
Dr. Coombs, on record as “offering the
consideration” that a shorter working-
week might make short coal supplies go
further. There was Mr. Eggleston, who,
“we felt, was able to speak authoritatively
for the great mass of trade-unionists,”
when he “assured us” that the workers
wanted more leisure and not higher wages
from overtime —was weekend work for
cash payments (unreturned for taxation)
then unknown? There were the
counsel for “Labor” Governments,
Commonwealth and State, who all said
that these Governments wanted the 40-
hour week and that “the present and
prospective prosperity of the nation are
favorable to the immediate granting of
it.” (This was from Queensland). The
McGirrs in N.S.W. legislated for 40 hours
in order to present the court with a fait
accompli, “which affected the freedom
with which the court might otherwise
have acted.” There was Mr, Clark,
“specially invited by the court to assist
it,” which he did “considerably.” And
there was another economist, Mr. Brown,
who gave the court a real treat.
He deposed that, internationally, Aus-
tralian wages had not risen high enough.
He considered it was desirable to increase
prices in Australia.
Mr. Brown attempted a mathematical
measurement of the field that would he
affected in terms of a percentage loss of
production overall. Bis figure, assuming
no reduction in rural industry....
A pause is required here for that to sink
in:
was not more than 5 per cent. He then
attempted by many assumptions, estimates
and calculations, not generally or fully
concurred in by Mr. Tyrer, to trace the
effects of that lost production through
the community by way of the price struc-
ture, concluding that the overall price-
rise should not exceed 4 per cent.
Mr. Brown was asked also for supple-
mentary evidence on some apposite argu-
ment from the employers about “the
rigidity of our wage system” as “prevent-
ing the operation of economic forces
which elsewhere bring about equilibrium.”
Mr. Brown obliged, and the court wrote
him and itself into history thus:
Mr. Brown: “Under present circum-
stances the effective factors limiting re-
distribution of real income are the pres-
sure of rising prices on fixed Incomes and
the psychological reactions to a too-
rapidly-rising price-level.”
This was criticised on the ground that
it was “an economic opinion” and Mr.
Brown was a statistician. Mr. Brown has
university qualifications as an economist
and background, association, responsi-
bility and experience of a constant day-
to-day practice. If it is true that the
limiting factors are the two he mentioned
above, then the economy, we are satisfied,
will have little to fear on either of these
scores from the court’s decision.
The price-rise will not he psychologic-
ally disturbing, and fixed incomes, though
heavily affected, will not be catastrophic-
ally so, and can readily be protected as
we have indicated.
The “protection indicated” seems to
have been this;
One comfort ... .is that, if experience
shows we have erred, and contrary to our
best judgment the economy does suffer,
or if, because of unforeseen world con-
ditions, unanticipated results threaten us,
then the court can take such necessary
steps as will best protect and preserve
our community against any such untoward
possibilities.
So far it is extremely cold comfort to
those whose fixed incomes continue to
buy less and less.
"On the Lam."
Mr. McGirr finished the session of the
N. S. Wales Parliament which closed
hurriedly and riotously last week “on
the lam”—or perhaps it should be spelt
“Lamb.”
When Mr. McGirr appeared on Tues-
day furtively clutching several bills which
he hoped to sneak through in the last
hours of the session with the help of the
gag and a hide which would put butt
sole-leather to shame, he found Mr.
Geraghty, the chancy member for North
Sydney, waiting for him with a long-
delayed motion for the abolition of the
Legislative Council.
This was an awkward beginning for
Mr. McGirr’s final week, since Mr.
Geraghty is his “majority” ; but fate was
remarkably kind to him.
Mr. Lamb, the Speaker, after having
ejected two Opposition-members with
almost record velocity for having inter-
jected (though one of them, the mild and
'inoffensive Mr. Turner, of Gordon,
declared that he had never said a word),
ruled the Geraghty motion out of order
on the ground that it was not urgent.
Mr. Geraghty was checkmated. In the
absence of the ejected members there was
no chance of carrying a resolution dis-
agreeing with the ruling of the Speaker,
who next day, with the utmost sang-froid,
announced; “I made a mistake and I
admit it”;
I realised that if the motion [Mr.
Geraghty’s] went to a vote of the House
it would be defeated because of my action
of having two members from the Opposi-
tion removed. I realised that I would then
be guilty of gross partisanship, which, as
Speaker, I could not countenance for a
moment In my dilemma I believed there
was merit in the submission of the Attorney-
General [i.e., who applied to have Mr.
Geraghty’s motion ruled out of order] and
I upheld the point of order. When the
incident passed 1 was aware that while
I had saved myself from the odium of
partisanship I had flagrantly broken Stand-
ing Order 395, and my position was
untenable.
It was, and still is. Mr. Treatt,
Opposition-leader, moved a resolution
demanding the removal of the Speaker
from office on the ground of partiality.
This was blocked by a vote of 47 to 46
on the ground that it was not a matter of
urgency. It is a nice tribute to Mr.
Geraghty’s innocence and the high-flown
nature of his political principles that he
provided the majority of one which de-
feated the Opposition’s motion,
Mr. McGirr then hastened to pass his
eight bills in 12 hours in what Mr. Treatt
called “a snide way,” these measures in-
cluding a mean little one to reduce the
interval between reviews of the elector-
ates from nine to five years in the hope
of picking up an extra seat in the inflated
capital at the next poll, and a bill to hand
over tram and bus transport to a com-
mission (Mr. Winsor, of course, in
charge) and thus somehow mysteriously
“co-ordinate transport” a little more.
The only person at this stage who
would seem to be capable of co-
ordinating it would be a bankruptcy
judge with a junk-yard at his disposal.
The public, however, heard little of
these remarkable bills or of the indecent
speed with which they were gagged
through because of the overriding interest
of the Press in an incident in which Mr.
Enticknap, “Labor” member for Mur-
rumbidgee, was supposed somewhere in
the fastnesses of the House to have struck
Mr. Finnan, the portly Minister for
Labor and Industry, on the chin. Mr.
Finnan gave a “complete denial” of the
story, and Mr. Enticknap did likewise,
his indignation being fanned a hundred-
fold by the fact that one great journal
published photographs of both himself
and Mr. Finnan without their glasses. To
their friends who know them well both
gentlemen in these portraits (which show
them au naturel instead of behind glass)
are perfectly recognisable, but Mr.
Enticknap, obviously no nudist,
characterised them as “fake photos, hobo
photos.” And he described the reports of
the supposed attack as a “fabrication.”
Mr. McGirr must indeed have heaved a
sigh of relief when the House rose.
Otherwise this week he would have found
himself in the awkward dilemma of hav-
ing to deal with the “S. M. Herald,” which
stated flatly that “the ‘Herald’ is satisfied
that the denials by Mr. Finnan and Mr.
Enticknap are false.”
Municipal Rates.
Liverpool council (B. 26/3/’52) isn’t
the only local authority in New South
Wales that seems to think it is a mistake
to make things too easy for the ratepayer.
Take the matter of payment of accounts.
Rate-notices issued by the municipality
of Marrickville bear the following warn-
ing:—
On the expiration of One Month after
service of this notice upon you, the under-
mentioned rates will be due and must be
paid to the Council at its office. NOTICE
TO PAY THE RATES IS HEREBY
GIVEN, and if such payment be not made,
proceedings will be taken for the recovery
of the whole amount due as provided by
the Act... .Attention is drawn to the pro-
visions of Section 158 of the Act, which
provides for an extra charge of 5 per cent,
per annum on overdue rates. THERE-
FORE PLEASE PAY PROMPTLY.
It is safe to say that not one ratepayer
in a hundred will hunt up the Local Gov-
ernment Act to find out just what Sec.
158 says on the subject. Many of them
discuss the matter with other ratepayers
or compare assessment-notices with
friends in other municipalities. If a
Marrickville ratepayer has a chat with a
resident of the Ku-ring-gai municipality,
for example, he will find a remarkable
degree of uniformity in the wording of
this reference to Sec. 158, and the two
will probably agree that it means that
unless they pay up within one month
from the date of service of the notice
they will become liable for penalty rates
at 5 per cent. p.a.—which, of course, is
exactly what the councils intend them to
think.
If, however, they happen to take a
peek at an assessment-notice from
Hornsby shire, next-door to Ku-ing-gai,
they will get a different slant on the
penalty-rate. Hornsby is presumably
just as eager to collect its rates as the
other municipalities ; it is, at any rate,
just as lavish as they in its use of capital
letters. But it apparently believes in letting
the ratepayer know just where he stands.
Its payment-warning follows the same
general trend as the other two councils
mentioned, but when it gets down to
“Section 158” it doesn’t merely draw
attention to it; it quotes it:
If the rates are unpaid at the expiration
of 3 months from the due date the amount
due shall be increased by a sum calculated
at the rate of 5 per centum per annum, and
the increase shall be deemed to be part
of the rates.
This is a very different thing from the
construction that would ordinarily be
placed upon the wording of the notices
issued by Marrickville, Ku-ring-gai and
other councils that follow the pattern.
Instead of having only one month in
which to pay without penalty, ratepayers
have four months, and they are entitled
to be given this information clearly on
their rate-notices. To omit all reference
to the three months, while sheltering
behind an oblique reference to Section
158, is a shabby trick unworthy of men
who have accepted civic responsibilities.
The Mendicant.
When N.S.W.’s “Gimme” McGirr tells
his supposedly credulous local world that
there could be unlimited spending of
loan-money on its hospitals, schools,
housing and improvement of transport
but for the Commonwealth Government’s
“darg” (so to speak) on the provision of
dough, he wishes it to be understood that
nothing stands in the way of lots of
money but that fellow Menzies.
He implies that the national investment,
coffers are all full to bursting with the
good stuff, provided mainly by the
blessing of McGirr rule in N.S.W., and
that the McGirr Government is unjustly
and illegally denied the right to make any
calls it wishes on an unused hoard.
Because McGirr has only £64,000,000 of
loans to spend this year —a mere fleabite
to what he could command if he had his
freedom —the broken school windows at
Dog Flat will not be mended this
year; the walls of the promised hospital
10 miles the other side of it will not be
raised above the level of a Clive Evatt
foundation-stone; and thousands of
mothers, widows and little children will
be denied the four (or more) freedoms.
Actually, on his own political record
of waste and sloth. Premier “Gimme
McGirr could not raise a bean. He
probably had some responsible person to
see that he did not confuse his texts, for
on the day that he was declaring that he
would not have, out of £64,000,000, any-
thing to spend on schools, housing or
hospitals, he was presented smiling —as
nearly as be does smile —out of Press
advertisements over these words of
wisdom, boosting the 15th Security Loan
(of £75,000,000):
You, the people of the State, are invest-
ing your money in capital works essential
to the progress and development of New
South Wales. The money you are invest-
ing is urgently needed by the State to
{Continued on next page.)


•MMi
-■fcr
A’o4
Travel in State Interstate.
Morning, noon and night A.N.A. luxury ,_air liners are
criss-crossing the Continent between their 62 ports o' call which
network our States. A.N.A. air travellers can leave at any
time of the day which suits them best.
WING YOU* WAY WITH
sdf
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS PTY. LTD.
Branches and Agents throughout the Commonwealth
provide.... school buildings, hospitals....
It has the backing of the Commonwealth
and State Governments.
The day after this he said he was “in
despair,” that all development works
“will stagnate and in too many instances
have to be abandoned,” that “the States
and not Canberra” provided all the
security, and that the Commonwealth was
“a mere agent, a middleman whom we
know to our sorrow.” In another out-
burst he said the tables were turned on
the majority of States at the Loan Coun-
cil, among whom his own voice availed
nothing—although he got more than a
quarter of the cut-up of £225,000,000 ot
loans among seven Governments.
The McGirr wail is the one that is
raised by street-juveniles all day every-
where from Port Said round to Shanghai :
“No father, no mother; give it ten cents,
give it baksheesh.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Who’s been chinnin’ Finnan?
McGrrrrr’s circus put up its shutters
on Thursday—the Big Ring till May 14
and the little ring until May 27. Those
are the official dates, but no one expects
them to be adhered to. In fact, no one
expects the show to run a winter season
at all this year, the political climatic
conditions not being considered con-
ducive to the continued good health of
the management.
Among a batch of eight bills which
the McGrrrrrs bludgeoned through in
the closing hours of the session was one
authorising it to seek yet another re-
distribution of electoral boundaries. The
last one increased city representation at
the expense of the country and enabled
“Labor” to hang on to office —with the
help of maGeraghty—but apparently it
didn’t go far enough, and the “Labor”
executive feels it had better have another
split-up before the next election.
The utter lack of any sense of respon-
sibility which characterises many unions
today is shown once again in the foolish
and futile strike which forced cuts in
N. S. Wales train services at the week-
end. Railway workshop employees be-
longing to the Amalgamated Engineering
Union and the Australasian Society of
Engineers are on strike in protest against
the refusal of the Railways Department
to double their margins. This is a strike
against the arbitration system, which the
unions claim to support; against the
N, S. Wales Government, which the
unions also claim to support. The
sufferers are not capitalist bosses but the
Government railways, already millions in
the red for the year, and the public, which
has to bear both the inconvenience of
curtailed schedules and the additional
losses caused by reduced revenue.
The position has even alarmed A.L.P.
boss Ferguson, who on Sunday warned
the strikers that their action was
endangering the jobs of 57,000 transport
workers, jeopardising their chances of
increased long-service leave, had already
lost the railways half-a-million in freight
and could easily bring down the McGrrrrr
Government. Being Jacky Ferguson, he
naturally watered down the rebuke by
implying that the strike was a good idea
that had somehow gone wrong;
The strike was caused by the Galvin
award. Let there be no doubt about
that Despite what merit it may have
possessed at the beginning, today it is part
of the general conspiracy being cunningly
applied to our Australian way of life,
Ferguson can’t have it both ways. The
strike is one against arbitration. If it is
bad now it was bad from the beginning.
What he seems to mean is that if the
Railways Department had surrendered to
threats the strike would have been suc-
cessful, and therefore good. It is now
hurting the “Labor” movement, and is
therefore bad, and must be called off.
That is Red strike philosophy, pure and
simple.
In asking the Chief Judge of the
Arbitration Court to intervene in the
State Electricity Commission strike Vic.
Premier McDonald can hardly have
expected any other reply than the one Sir
Raymond Kelly gave him —that he was
not prepared to allow the Arbitration
Court machinery to be used in what was a
strike against arbitration, and that any
application for reconsideration of the
margins decision must be made to Mr.
Galvin alone, Victoria’s half-Premier
was, of course, attempting to pass the
buck in order to avoid offending his
“Labor” props.
Truman’s played old Harry with Presi-
dential plans!
When the counting of primary votes in
the Lyne by-election was completed the
tally was Hayes (Lab.), 13,583 ; Lucock
(C.P.), 10,991 ; Lancaster (C.P.), 10,629,
Cordner (Ind.), 420 ; Spensley (Ind.), 775.
Elimination of the two Independents left
Lucock with still a slight lead over his
colleague Lancaster, so the latter’s prefer-
ences were distributed. There was very
little drift, and the final result was
Lucock, 21,478; Hayes, 14,920. The
Country-party vote was down about 3500
on last year’s figures, a circumstance on
which Doc. Evatt is already building rosy
dreams of power.
Dr. Evatt says that “Labor’s” 10 p.c.
gain in the Lyne polling “showed an
extensive and significant shift of opinion
in Labor’s favor.” He might have reserved
his remarks till the next election for
Barton, where the slide against him in the
last two polls was like an avalanche.
One of P.M.G, Anthony’s post-and-
telegraph directors told the Queensland
s.p. inquiry that if the department co-
operated with the police (by refusing
phone facilities to bookies and punters)
s.p. betting could be wiped out. He said
he didn’t know Why the P.M.G. didn’t
co-operate. Neither, apparently, did
Mrs. M, Varley, a Brisbane woman who
claimed the right to appeal to the com-
mission against legalising s.p. because
her husband squandered their home and
possessions on s.p. betting and she had
to take in washing to support the family.
Last Thursday both Sydney morning
papers reported a scene in the dining-
room at N. S. Wales Parliament House
in which the “Labor” member for
Murrumbidgee, G. Enticknap, was alleged
to have struck F. J. Finnan, Minister for
Labor and Industry, on the chin after
heated words had been exchanged. After
reading the reports both gentlemen made
lengthy statements to the House denying
that there was any truth in the story and
protesting sweet brotherhood. “S. M.
Herald” replied editorially that it was
satisfied that these denials were false, and
the “Telegraph” was equally emphatic
that its information was authentic.
Geraghty’s long-threatened motion call-
ing on the McGrrrrr Government to
declare itself on Upper House abolition
fluttered into the Assembly last week, but
was thrust out undebated. Had it gone
to a vote it would almost certainly have
been defeated, as two Liberal members
had been suspended a short time before
Geraghty rose. But it didn’t get that far.
Up jumped Attorney-General Clarrie
Martin, claiming that the motion was out
of order as it lacked urgency. Speaker
Lamb concurred, and that was that.
Next day the Speaker announced that
he had made a mistake in his ruling, say-
ing that he had realised that his suspen-
sion of the two Opposition members
would probably mean the defeat of
Geraghty’s motion if it went to a vote
and that this would reflect on his impar-
tiality as Speaker. “In my dilemma I
believed there was merit in the point
taken by the Attorney-General, and I
upheld the point of order.” Later, “in
the calmer atmosphere” of his own room
he had realised his error.
Geraghty accepted the Speaker’s ex-
planation and voted with the Government
to defeat an attempt by the Opposition
to discuss a motion demanding the
removal of the Speaker from office on
the grounds of partiality. “Labor” men,
whether endorsed or unendorsed, have
very understanding hearts when it comes
to accepting explanations from other
“Labor” men. Jim can now hug his
motion for another six months.
Enthusiastic supporters of the Eisen-
hower-for-President movement intend to
display a huge photograph of the
in Times-square, New York. It’s to be
hoped it looks a bit better than the over-
size portraits of Lenin and Stalin which
are a feature of Soviet parades and which
always call to mind the giant heads worn
by clowns when the circus comes to town.
Ike is a great man and has an honest
phiz, but it is doubtful whether it will
stand enlargement to 48ft. square.
Polling in the by-election for the Ithaca
seat in the Queensland Assembly, for-
merly held by the late Premier Hanlon,
will take place on Saturday. “Labor”
candidate L. Eastment should know the
district well; he was campaign-director
for Hanlon. His Liberal opponent, 29-
year-old D. S. Lowndes, has been cam-
paigning hard and with the optimism of
youth, but he has a hard task ahead of
him, At the last election “Labor’s”
majority was just under 2000 in a poll
of 11,000. Lowndes has been telling his
audiences that too many “Labor”
Assemblymen are getting on in years and
becoming “browned off.” It’s true
enough, but they’ll stay there until the
electors brush ’em off.
N.S.W., Queensland and South Aus-
tralia have agreed to joint action in the
aerial poisoning of dingoes. Some recent
more or less polite exchanges in the
Parliaments of the two northern States
suggest that brieing on the whereabouts
of the dingoes will be necessary.
From “8PR”:
I always enjoy Scorfield’s cartoons, but feel
that he is badly off the rails in B. 19/3/ ’52.
Surely any economist would say that it is Aus-
tralia as a whole (and not the primary pro-
ducers alone) that has been on a buying spree,
has cut out the cheque earned by the long
hours and hard work of those producers—and
is now asking them to earn another cheque for
it. Quite right, too, since they alone can do
the job; but let’s get the matter straight.
When the Queensland Gairs announced
a “special” Cabinet meeting the other
day to “consider proposed amendments to
the State Electoral Act,” a few —very few
—trusting Queenslanders thought prefer-
ential voting was to be restored. All it
turned out to be was something about
the Bulimba frauds —the bigger fraud
wasn’t even mentioned.
A British Liberal M.P. says it’s
“farcical” for so many Australians to be
employed in manufacturing industries
while Britain needs food and wool. Well,
a lot of Australians believe it’s “farcical”
to grow wool here, send it to Britain,
have it made up into garments and the
garments brought back here.
The A.L.P. Industrial Group Con-
ference has decided to “seek the expul-
sion of A.L.P. militants from the Labor
party.” Apart from the fact that this is
what is described as “witch-hunting” the
conference might remember its history.
The militants whom it “expelled” in its
last purges of the ’thirties are nearly all
now “Labor” political bosses and “Labor”
members of Legislative Councils,
Since Colin Clark threw off the chains
of Government service he seems to have
been thoroughly enjoying being able to
speak his mind without inhibitions.
Greatly daring, he went last week to a
luncheon of the Queensland Temperance
League and, presumably well fortified
with tea, told the blue-ribboners that
prohibition of drinking was just as intem-
perate an act as over-drinking. He said
that the liquor trade had become wealthy,
powerful and monopolistic because the
licensing laws played into its hands,
and he advocated the repeal of all these
laws so that any reputable person could
produce or sell drink to another at any
time. It was not the sort of speech
Temperance Leaguers are accustomed to
hearing, which probably explains why
one lifelong teetotaller was heard to say,
apropos the accusation of intemperance,
that being a temperance man he believed
in being moderate in all things—includ-
ing his moderation.
At a kind of produce-more-food con-
vention organised by the N.S.W. Liberals
in Sydney, Professor McDonald Holmes
said, “You cannot separate the land from
the people.” He evidently doesn’t know
what is being achieved by general
Government policy.
A Federal “Five Year” plan for food-
production is to be shoved at the State
Agricultural Ministers when they meet
in Canberra on April 21. Presumably
the Ministers will then distribute the
seed for sowing, and a crop of plans will
be harvested to replace the missing grain
crops,
A Queensland Government Order-in-
Council alters the boundaries of the
electoral districts of the State Peanut
Board. Nobody need imagine that this
will result in more and cheaper peanuts
—the end result of all board control of
commodities is strict limitation of pro-
duction. This is why all the efforts of
State and Federal Governments to in-
crease food-production are futile.
“E. & 0.E.”: When Senator O’Flaherty
a short time back voiced his objection to
the poor standard of cooking in Govern-
ment hostels and hotels at Canberra, in
spite of the employment of nutrition
experts, he also pointed out a remedy that
would be welcomed by all taxpayers.
“The hostels,” he said, “should be placed
under the control of some dear old lady
who knows how to cook.” No doubt
some such dear old lady, who had always
known to make-do within the limits of
her own income, really could cut out all
the waste and half the cost of the present
system while providing good meals for
less money. But just imagine the chorus
of howls and protests that would be
raised when she succeeded, especially by
“Labor.”
Aneurin Sevan’s campaign to prise the
leadership of Britain’s Socialists away
from Attlee is still rumbling along. His
latest move is a proposal that the Parlia-
mentary Labor party should be run by a
committee consisting of the leader,
deputy-leader, Chief Whip and 15 elected
members. He also suggests that one more
member should be elected by ballot to
preside over the meetings of the com-
mittee. He must not be a member of the
committee. The object of this seems to
be to prevent Attlee, the leader of the
party, from presiding at the meetings.


H\ft& OJAS A fiVgy WITH -rue RfMALty.
Makes ms a net - sVxrv- sgygM th£ comp. x
THERE’S ONE IN EVERY CLUB.


mi\u
to show your friends the
fun you had on holidays—
to keep as a permanent
"treasure” in your snap-
shot album or in a framed
enlarged print.
1
■
*'TED
KOo
ak
&uafwX.
f ( t jr
KE.2
KODAK
“DUAFLEX” CAMERA
... with large reflex-type
viewfinder to view your subject
in almost actual picture size. Has
handy push-button shutter release,
pre-focused Kodak lens, and all-
metal body. Carrying sling and
clip-on lens cover included. 12 exp.,
x 2} ins. Price £5/19/6.
FLASH, too! Just clip on a Kodak
"Duaflex" Flasholdcr (accessory)
and you can get night-time snaps
with day-time ease.
KODAK
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
hr Cameras
KODAK (A/asia) PTY. LTD..
Branches in all States
Missing Friend.
FSTATE of JOHN WILLIAM WALKER
FOOTT. formerly of Ballarat,
keeper, deceased. WILL I FOO TT and
DONALD FOOTT, HARRY FOOll ana
CHARLES FOOTT, or anyone knowing
whereabouts, please communicate
F ith THE FIDELITY TRUSTEE COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 101 Lydiard Street
North,’ Ballarat?
Business.Rollery.Etc.
National Economic Policy
Mr. Menzies, in his statement
on national economic policy,
acknowledged that restriction of
imports was inevitable, but to
some extent it would tend to
defeat the Government’s anti-
inflation plans by making goods
available to the consumer public
scarcer again. A drastic limita-
tion of supplies from abroad
might create dislocation in some
industries, and it was intended
that special attention should be
given by the Commonwealth
Bank and the Capital Issues
Board to any cases in which
import - cuts were producing
genuine shortages of essential
goods.
But, generally, the credit-
restriction policy of the Govern-
ment would be continued. In
outline it embraced chiefly:
(a) A policy of stimulating and
(as in the case of prefabricated
bouses) subsidising imports; <b)
credit restrictions through the bank-
ing system; (c) control of private
capital investment through capital-
issues control; (d) limitation of
public investment demand through
Loan Council control of public
works; (e) a surplus Budget involv-
ing expenditure reductions and some
Increases in taxation; (f) the raising
of a substantial dollar loan for the
provision of plant needed for the
expansion of production in Aus-
tralia.
Already some slowing-down in
price- and cost-increases had
been achieved, as well as an
improvement in the availability
of labor and raw materials for
basic industries.
Total public - works pro-
grammes were far beyond Aus-
tralia’s current capacity to
perform or finance by non-
inflationary means. “But,” said
Mr. Menzies, “there can be no
doubt that works designed to
produce more power, more iron
and steel, more efficient trans-
port of goods and a greater 1
availability of water-supply are
of the highest priority,”
The Government, because of
the fall in wool prices, droughts, '
fires and floods, would have
more difficulty in raising revenue
from now on and would have
greater Budgetary problems.
But taxation concessions are
to be granted to primary pro-
ducers in respect of depreciation
on new equipment, and there is
to be no wheat-export tax in
respect of wheat from the next
harvest. These concessions are
hoped to encourage a greater
production of food.
Sagging Share Prices
The weight of the Common-
wealth borrowing and conver-
sion operation was felt on Aus-
tralian sharemarkets last week.
And interim dividends continued
to be passed by many concerns,
some leaders in their particular
type of industry. Drug Houses
of Australia was a case in point.
Most of these concerns stress
that profits have been main-
tained, but that it has been
thought necessary to conserve
finance in view of Common-
wealth credit policy and the turn
in the tide of world trade.
Australian share prices have
again reached a very depressed
level, and there appears to be
little ready cash available for
investment. Bargains are again
around.
Speaking at the annual meet-
ing of Capel Court Investment
Co. in Melbourne, Mr. Stani-
forth Ricketson expressed the
opinion that genuine investors
. who bought for long-term bene-
fits need not be unduly perturbed
• by the present temporary halt
in national expansion. More
attention was now being given to
investment yields, but a number
of shares must be adjusted
further downward in price be-
fore their yields corresponded
with pre-war standards of rela-
tion to gilt-edged rates.
With regard to the final point
made by Mr. Ricketson, the be-
lief has been expressed in these
pages more than once that good
second-line investments hold
greater prospects of early bene-
fits than do some of the front-
line stocks. Whilst basic indus-
tries are assured of top financial
and raw-materials priority in any
“Missed again!"
national-resources controls, many
processing industries are almost
equally important, and when the
present confusing position sorts
itself out a little more it will be
found that some 5 p.c. and 6 p.c.
yields are almost as secure as
some of the present 3 p.c. and
4 p.c. returns from front-rank
industrials.
But there undoubtedly is some
confusion at the moment, and
it would appear that Capital
Issues Control has not been very
confident or competent so far in
“weighting” different industries
according to their degree of
essentiality. This is perhaps
understandable in view of the
sharpness of the economic
change that has taken place.
So far as the sharemarket is
concerned, new issues of capital
have mostly been an embarrass-
ment. They have usually been
followed by a sagging in the
market both for rights and the
old shares.
The Federal Government has
many Budget - balancing
problems confronting it that
make consideration of industry’s
taxation problems an also-ran
at present. With the income of
woolgrowers down heavily the
national (and taxable) income is
shrinking to some extent, and
the import cuts are going to
affect Customs revenue severely.
In the circumstances reductions
of the burden of taxation on
industry are more difficult than
they might have been.
But industry’s problems in
this regard will have to be given
serious consideration, especially
the depreciation problem in
relation to the replacement of
assets. The big shipping firm of
Huddart Parker has applied to
the Commonwealth Government
for exemption from taxation of
earnings set aside for replacing
vessels. Generally speaking, de-
preciation provisions made in the
past are becoming wholly in-
adequate to replace the same
kind of assets that are being
worn out in earning current
income. This is becoming a
serious factor in our whole
economic structure, and it can-
not be ignored by any respon-
sible Government.
Assuming that greater tax-free
allowances for plant depreciation
are eventually allowed by Can-
berra, the outlook for Australian
industry on the whole is encour-
aging, and is not to be gauged
by the present acute depression
on the Stock Exchanges. The
number of forced sales of in-
vestments now occurring would
probably be surprising if they
could be ascertained. But it is
known that liquidation of many
overdrafts is now going on
through the liquidation of
investors’ holdings of Stock
Exchange securities, and the
market is in no mood to absorb
quantities of scrip, however
good it may be. This has raised
particular problems in the pay-
ment of death duties, especially
where probate dues were assessed
on market-values prevailing five
or six months ago.
Subject to supplies of essential
raw materials, the outlook for
basic Australian industry is one
of stimulation more than any-
thing else. What we can t buy
abroad with a reduced wool
cheque we shall have to make
at home. In many industries the
labor attitude is, fortunately,
conducive to a better productive
effort, though we shan’t get very
far ahead of past production
levels unless coal, steel and
transport liven up.
Maoriiand and World Bank
New Zealand will have to
conquer its shyness of the
Bretton Woods twins if it is to
get the dollars it needs for its
big Murupara newsprint and
pulp project, and for other de-
velopment schemes in the next
few years. There’s £3O million
to be spent before Maoriiand
will bte able to cash-in on its
half a million acres of softwoods
on a full scale. Half of this is
the Government’s share; the
other half will be the concern
of the Tasman Pulp and Paper
Co. A good deal of the outlay
will be in dollars for plant and
equipment. The co. expects to
get its dollars from the Export-
Import Bank, but the Govern-
ment will have to go to the
World Bank, of which it isn’t
yet a member.
As the bank doesn’t talk busi-
ness with non-members it seems
there’s nothing for it but to
lodge an application for
membership, and the sooner the
better. This means joining the
International Monetary Fund,
too, which is Maoriland’s diffi-
culty, for it has always prided
itself on its independence in
currency and exchange control,
and has been strongly opposed
to surrendering this power to
any outside authority. This is
why the question of Bretton
Woods membership has been
hush-hush until now, and has
never been debated in Parlia-
ment. But for financial need
probably New Zealand would
prefer to remain aloof ; but with
dollars as the key to its future
it can’t stay out.
Government construction of
railways, port, electric-power and
highway facilities and purchase
of logging plant for the Muru-
para forest must keep in step
with building of the mills; other-
wise private enterprise would
find itself without access to the
raw material on the one side,
or to markets on the other, when
it was ready to go into produc-
tion.
The position of the co. in
the middle places it at the mercy
of the Government, and both it
and the Government realise that
their interests are bound together
hand-and-glove. As the new
industry has high priority for
the British Commonwealth to
save dollars, as well as for
Maoriland’s development, there
isn’t much danger that the Gov-
ernment will sit back, but the
risk is that, in spite of all its
efforts, it might still be late in
reaching the goal. The co. has
set itself a tight time-limit of 30
months to build the mills and set
up the plant, and Yankee con-
tractors will put their skill and
drive into this. The co. wants
the Government to hustle, too.
It’s beginning to dawn on easy-
going Maorilanders that they 11
have to sink their prejudices so
far as the I.M.F. is concerned to
qualify as borrowers from the
World Bank as soon as possible.
New Zealand is highly eligible
for membership. Its credit is
gilt-edged, its external debt low,
its trade buoyant and rising and
its investment field inviting. Its
currency policy could not be
sounder if it had been a member,
and its future course, as one ot
the sterling-area team, is clear.
It is keen to push its dollar
trade, but this means selling as
well as buying. Maoriiand has
a deeply-rooted feeling tha
commerce should be two-way,
and that Uncle Sam should
sweep aside some ot tne
obstacles that stand in the way
of countries eager to earn dollars
by doing business with him.
Like Australia, M.L. would
like to see its dollar income based
mainly on something more sub-
stantial than unstable woo
values, but unlike Auslraha it
has much more to offer, in dairy
produce and meat, if John
can be persuaded to live on kss
With the Old Man in a bad way
at the moment it is not pressmg
this just now. It mus t ? a
dollars whether or not Uncle
Sam is willing to open the unport
door wider, and whether or not it
can divert food shipments to
dollar markets.


THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
'•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 1, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
a
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of
Oeorge 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch;
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
.NEURITIS
can be yours with
9
D
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
• Dolcin has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
sss>
fttie*
11
URI riS
IUM
LIA" J
U 0&
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
.2/12J.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting relief,
are now active again—able to work —thanks
to the relief from pain £>olcin Tablets have
brought thfm.
DOLCIN is easy to lake in tablet form.
DO LOIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
DOLCIN
Helpful and Informative literature on Dolcla
will be sent on request to Dolcin (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box 1552, 9.P.0., Sydney.
ygt*
5w
SS^rv
- . *<
Frenzied peasants attack sky monster
Paris, 27th August, 178}
/f C ) ONSIEUR MONT-
(9//// first
f 1/ hydrogen balloon,
released on the Champs de
Mars in Paris, came down at
Gonesse. Excited rustics
mistook it for some mon-
strous devilish beast and,
encouraged by two monks,
attacked it with pitchforks
\ and flails until it was quite
V deflated. The tattered re-
v\ mains were tied to a horse’s
\ tail and dragged away.
We can imagine M. Mont-
golfier’s statement to the
Press. “This shows how far
aviation has to go before
flying machines become
commonplace. When they
do, of course, proper
arrangements will be needed
for their reception. And
somebody will have to in-
vent the BP Aviation service
to refuel them quickly and
efficiently.”
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Although the Welfare State is
under new management and,
from the portents of Mr. Butler’s
Budget, in course of reconstruc-
tion, the word “welfare” seems
singularly inapt during these
early spring days. An aftermath
of minor hardships, both
immediate and potential, has
introduced anxiety as well as
reality into most British homes.
Londoners especially are find-
ing themselves unable to shake
off a resentful personal grouse
over recent fare-increases. It
was known that fares were to be
adjusted, but the full extent of
the “adjustments” was not
anticipated. Many passengers
were incensed to discover that,
instead of paying 2d. (the new
minimum fare) for a journey
that previously had cost
they had, in fact, to hand over
3d. because of a shortening of
the stages; and that the higher
fares were greater by as much as
60 per cent. The 20 per cent,
“average” increase on season-
ticket rates also appeared to be,
in most cases, an understatement.
Apart from much grumbling
at the working of monopolies
and bureaucracy in general and
the resultant impotence at being
able to do nothing about it, the
main conclusions are two: a
much-tried public finds the
impact of the extra drain on its
pocket harder to bear than
vague calls for sacrifice ; and, if
the nationalised transport system
is to pay its way, it will not be
because of better service or new
custom so much as overcharging
those whose livelihood depends
upon a daily journey to and
from their place of business.
Another factor of more
serious implication is the rise in
unemployment. The latest total
of 393,000 is the highest since the
war, and exceeds the average
over the past four years by
60,000 and the figure for
February, 1951, by over 91,000.
The extent to which the textile
trade has been hit is disclosed
by the fact that one-half of the
total increase applies to Lan-
cashire and Yorkshire. Under-
standably, the news of the Aus-
tralian import-cuts falls hard
and heavy about the Pennines.
It will be a task of immense dif-
ficulty to find new markets,
especially as the Australian
action is the first of several.
Apart from the “Daily Herald,”
which somehow contrived to
blame the Tories, comment on
the whole is resigned to the
inevitability of the restrictions,
which, it is held, were bound to
come later or sooner. Insofar
as they contribute to a concerted
effort to reinstate the sterling
area, their introduction is in fact
welcomed, but any collateral
tendency towards a contrac-
tionary spiral in international
trade is deplored.
Creaking Solidarity
Nearly seven years ago the
British electorate gave its vote
overwhelmingly to Socialism,
which it welcomed as a timely
change from Chamberlainism.
New men, new ideas, new vigor.
The British electorate (even
including those who, because of
malicious whispering campaigns
against the Tories, were driven
to the polls in mild anxiety) had
a shock. Things didn’t turn out
as expected. Yet had the Labor
party grasped its opportunities
it might have grown, instead of
dwindled, in power and prestige.
It might, by drive and political
vision, have replaced the ailing
Liberal party in a nation that is
fundamentally liberal in out-
look. But to achieve this it
had to adapt itself to the mood
and needs of the people. It had
to be flexible and show leader-
ship by anticipation as well as by
example.
Some of the Labor leaders
were alive to this condition.
Mr. Morrison, for example, was
at one time given to public
affirmation of the necessity of a
broader - based outlook, and
most of his colleagues in the
Cabinet undoubtedly shared his
views. So far from broadening
out, Socialism became the
more doctrinal, arbitrary and
intolerant. Why? Because, as
a quasi-mystical cult, it derives
its main impetus from the die-
hard adherents whose minds are
closed to everything but the
fervor of their passionate zeal.
And here Mr. Bevan steps in,
the arch-priest of the ever-
faithful, impassioned, re-
sourceful and self-convinced.
The present crisis in the Labor
party is nothing new. It has been
there all the time. Had its
leaders been vastly more
dynamic and able than those we
have known the outcome would
have been much the same, parti-
cularly in the transitional period
between Government and all-out
Opposition.
What Mr. Bevan did was to
exploit a situation rather than
to make a direct bid for leader-
ship. The Tories must be bad,
in order to uphold the faith.
Therefore they must be
censured. Mr, Morrison could
hardly attack the Government’s
foreign policy, which was the
same as Mr. Attlee’s and his
own, so he had to challenge Mr.
Churchill’s ability to carry it
out. This amounted to a
personal attack on Mr,
Churchill, who dramatically
turned the tables, Mr. Morrison
blundered badly, and Mr.
Attlee’s orthodox or “Right-
wing” tendencies were exhibited
before the outraged rank-and-
file by the righteous indignation
of Mr. Sevan.
Mr. Attlee, whose noted
imperturbability for once is said
to have been ruffled, is in an
unenviable position as leader of
what is, after all, Britain’s alter-
native Government. He was
caught on the wrong foot, while
changing step, and has sustained
a nasty fall. Mr. Sevan’s status,
although less embarrassing, is
not all that he would wish for.
His act of mutiny has badly
shaken the sense of solidarity
which is the first requirement of
the Labor movement; and as a
would-be leader he is not a man
of likeable personality, even to
those who applaud his views.
Meanwhile strenuous attempts
at face-saving have been made
and the cleavage has been
patched up, but the trouble
smoulders still. So far as the
affair has any international
significance, such comment as
suggests a divided nation over-
exaggerates the situation. A
Labor party so split among itself
would indeed be a national
disaster —were it in power.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
* i.e., Jack Davey’s name.
* * * ♦
“Sub”: A few among the many
“Q.C.” gags in the mail:
The typist who, told that all K.Cs. were
henceforth to be addressed as Q.Cs., inscribed
an envelope to one of our knights with the
initials Q.C.M.G.
The New Australian who referred to the
Minister for External Affairs as Mr. Kewsey
because “at night-school the teacher said all
Caseys were now Kewseys.”
The pedantic lady who said she was staying
at Queen’s Cross.
* * * ♦
“Clooter”: Stick a man up with a
gun and relieve him of a few quid and he’ll
roar to heaven about the outrage, demand
to know what the police are doing, and
tell everybody what he would have done
if the bandit hadn’t had the drop on
“He's one of them fandangled modernists .”
him. The mistake is in the bandit and
his method. A far better way to do it is
to seek the victim out and quietly hint to
him (or her, for that matter) that you
know where he can get a dozen of beer
at ss. a bottle, of a couple of pounds of
butter at 4s. a pound, or plenty of Aus-
tralian cigarettes at only a zac above the
retail price, and he’ll not only rush it
with his ears back but bring along his
friends. And, after thus being as
definitely robbed by the polite bandits as
by the one with the gun, that man will
go among his fellows and smirk and
swagger and pose as a shrewdhead who
knows his way about and who can get
things because he is “in” with the
robbers. And if you happen to have a
little self-esteem and tell him that both
he and the robbers ought to be dealt
with, he and most of his contemporaries
will look on you as a mug. Perhaps you
are.
* * ♦ ♦
“Becks”: Paul McGuire’s remark
about “Haves” and “Have-nots” (B.
26/3/’52) set me wondering who coined
the terms. General opinion seems to
ascribe them to the propagandists of
Hitler and Mussolini, but Kipling, for
one, was ahead of those gentlemen.
Among his epitaphs for soldiers of the
Great War is one for the grave of two
soldiers:
“I was a ‘Have.’ ” “I was a ‘Have Not.’ ”
“What hast thou given which I gave not?”
Kipling’s use of the terms suggests they
were already well-known. Any earlier
record?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: It’s not surprising that
those youths haven’t succeeded in track-
ing down “Peter Syce” during the inter-
mission period at various shows (B.
5/3/’52), considering the fact that those
backbones of British and Australian
Armies, the sergeant-majors, have been
unable to put the finger on one particular
chap in a search that has been going on
for at least four generations. Granpop
recalls that they were looking for the
fellow in the Boer War. Dad vows the
hunt was still going on in the Kaiser’s
"crap. Two members of my generation
caa vouch for his constant presence but
cc Mete anonymity in the Compulsory
Tn ag Scheme that fizzled out around
’29 ; - ile two others declare that he was
with i -m on every parade-ground from
the She ■[ ! ound to the Desert and back
to Borneo. And now a nephew in the
Universal Training Army confirms
that the absentee is still
escaping the wrath he promotes. Who
is he? That bloke who inspires the sar’-
major’s raucous bellow: “Who’s that
mcfving in the rear rank?”
* He * *
“Felix”: Cats’-meat men in London
may be figures of the past, but many fish-
shops display dishes of scraps of fish dis-
carded in cleaning. These dainties are
usually labelled “Pussy’s Pieces.”
* * * ♦
“Fairf”: I wasn’t carrying a goatskin
sunshade or wearing anything that could
identify me as Robinson Crusoe, so I was
somewhat taken aback when the boy who
cruised past me on a bike in Wentworth-
ville (N.S.W.) asked “Want a Man Fri-
day?” Evidently it was some sort of
juvenile joke; I grinned, shook my head
and strode on. Farther along the street
a smaller lad, engaged in throwing
dodgers over fences, shot at me “Want a
Man Friday, mister?” I still couldn’t
get the joke. Pondering over the puzzle,
I came to the only feasible solution—
this “Man Friday” business must be some
local version of the Boy Scouts’ “Bob-a-
job” campaign that raked in the dibs for
a good cause some time ago. Another
kid came sauntering along, a sugarbag
satchel slung behind his back. “Want a
Man Friday?” he asked—and flicked a
double sheet of newsprint out of his bag
and under my arm in one graceful move-
ment. It was obviously a little free news-
paper. I glanced at the title —“Man
Friday.” And I used to think our local
weekly had the most novel of all news-
paper names —“The Biz.”
♦ * * *
“Hist”: That Chinaman who tooted
the motor-bike horn at the keyhole (B.
5/3/’52) reminded me of my redoubtable
aunt. During the period, only now
gradually passing away, when the ladies
and gents behind the counter maintained
an attitude of superior aloofness to the
customers, her exasperation at being kept
waiting for service rose daily to greater
heights. Finally she went forth shopping
with the toy horn off a nephew’s tricycle
in her shopping-bag. One sharp bleat,
she vowed, and the social small-talk
“ A big improvement! In fact, the doctor says he'll get better."
behind the counter was abruptly silenced ;
a second and therfe was a remarkable
movement of assistants in her direction;
a third and the store-manager would be
at her elbow virtually pleading to know
her requirements,
# * * *
“Clem Lack”: If Nelson wrote a poor
fist (B. 19/3/’52), he was a distinguished
figure in a distinguished company.
Napoleon was an atrocious penman. The
letters he sent to Josephine from Ger-
many were said to have been taken for
a rough map of the campaign. The
illegibility of the handwriting of
American editor Horace Greeley was
attested by Mark Twain, who claimed he
wrote to Greeley about the case of a boy
whose mania was trying to make a climb-
ing vine out of turnips. The reply in
Greeley’s handwriting, so far as Mark
could make out, was:
Polygamy dissembles majesty; extracts
redeem polarity; causes hitherto _ exist.
Ovations pursue wisdom or warts inherit
and condemn. Boston, botany, cakes,
felony undertakes, but who shall allay? We
fear not. —Yrxwly, Hevace Eveeloj .
Mark Twain begged for a clearer tran-
scription, whereupon it appeared that
what Greeley had really written was:
Potatoes do sometimes make vines; tur-
nips remain passive; cause unnecessary to
state. Inform the poor widow her lad s
efforts will be vain. But diet, bathing, etc.,
followed uniformly, will wean him from
his folly, So fear not. —Yours, Horace
Greeley.
* * * *
“Sigmoid Borborygm”: “Henman’s”
patient (B. 19/3/’52), who recorded a
temperature of 130 degrees by dipping
his thermometer in hot coffee, must have
borrowed his wife’s bottling - outfit
thermometer. I have never seen a clinical
one marked higher than 110 degrees. I
have frequently had one broken in my
pocket through standing too close to a
fire.
* ♦ * *
“Pawang”: Few people seem to know
that you can insure yourself against twins.
In Melbourne an average of one pros-
pective father a week takes out a policy,
but he has to do so five months before
the expected arrival of the baby or babies.
A £5OO policy costs about £25, and they
are usually inspired by the knowledge
that twins have previously been born in
the family of one or other of the parents.
One man, twice in five years, took out
£lOOO policies without collecting. When
his wife became pregnant the third time
he decided to save the premium and
carry die risk himself. He s now the
father of twins.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Although John Brownlee
has sung the title role of * Don Giovanni
300 times in divers places, from Glynde-
bourne, in England, to San Francisco
and in most European opera-houses, he
sang it for the first time in English when
he appeared the other night in the jewels
and sables of the amorous knight at th©
Princess, Melbourne. He was fairly
staggered by his reception. For the first
time in an English-speaking country an
audience understood him, and, as the
Mozart libretto isn’t without wit, he had
to pause in places and change his tempo
to fit in with the response of his hearers.
But, with due respect to Mr. Brownlee,
I don’t altogether share his enthusiasm for
English-spoken operas, and I dread the
day when I have to sit and hear the
heroine of Puccini’s most celebrated
opera referred to as “the spinster known
as Butterfly,” and hear Lieutenant Pinker-
ton asked by Sharpless to “say when”
to a “viskey soda.” Even a singer as
distinguished as Mr. Brownlee couldn’t
make this go down:
“You’re infatuated.”
“Perhaps, maybe. _
It depends on what you call in-fat-u-at-ed.
It occurs in the same opera.
* * * *
“Sutroh”: Three years’ sojourn in
Cork (Eire) gave me the same opinion as
“Sackville” (B. 20/2/’52). I mixed with
lads from all types of homes and I don’t
remember ever hearing a “Begorra” or
“Bejabers” or “I’ll be after giving you
something.” It wasn’t until I crossed
over to England that I heard a young
Irish teacher angrily exclaim to a devil
of a kid who was doing his best to
annoy him, “Ah, shut up, or I’ll be after
giving you a blow that will sicken you
for the rest of your loife.”
* * * •
“Bo”: The same peculiar sense of mis-
direction which used to cost Grouter all
his swimming race's at school still hangs
to him in middle life, which makes my
occasional perambulations with him
through the city a nightmare of zig-
zagging through the lunch-hour crowds.
With his 601 b. weight-advantage added to
his other habit of close “sherpherding”
I find myself being inexorably either
eased off the footpath (if I am on the
gutter side), with the imminent danger
of copping a taxi’s bumper-bars behind
my knees, or, if I am on the inside, of
scraping my nose along a window before
his defective gyroscope gets working
again and he sets his next tangent course
for the kerb. Occasionally in mid-
conversation I have become aware of
people staring at me in a queer way, not
until then realising that I am propound-
ing some strong political conviction to
empty air, my companion having mean-
while removed himself several feet away
from me. He has rejected my despair-
ing suggestion that I walk immediately
behind him (I having no wish to be
crushed to pulp between 2001 b, of
masculinity and a large sheet of quarter-
inch plateglass) and from there pass mm
notes from time to time. I don’t
want to bust up our long friendship. Any
suggestions?
“L.E.C.”: “Macnell”* (B. 12/3/’52)
asked why not another Stuart. A similar
question was put to the Minister for the
Navy in February by H.M.A.S. Stuart
Veterans’ Association. The Minister re-
plied that as the names for the new
“Daring”-class destroyers Voyager,
Vampire, Vendetta and Waterhen -were
submitted to and approved by our late
King, it was therefore not possible now
to include a new Stuart in the bunding
programme. The Minister assured us,
however, that “the name of Stuart would
not be allowed to die.”
THE SHARK THAT ONCE.
"A report from Adelaide says that Jack Davey
has Wided his first white-pointer shark.”
In Adelaide a man of mark
Has played his biggest game
By landing a white-pointer shark —
Jack Davey is his* name.
“Come closer to the microphone,”
Said Davey, full of charm.
“Give him a hand, please, everyone,
Or, if you like, an arm.
“And now,” said Jack, "I’m thinking of
Something animal,
So tell me, can you name the cove
In twenty questions, pal?
He’s standing on this platform now
And —let me help again—
He’s known in every home, somehow,
As ‘all things to all men.’ ”
“That’s easy, Jack,” the shark replied,
“And thanks for picking me:
For I’ve been grilled and boiled and fried
In home, pub, nitery,
As salmon, snapper, marlin, cod,
Tuna and deep-sea bass—
I’m all things to all men, by God”
“No,” Jack said, “you’re an ass!
“Now, Mister Shark, I’m being fair;
I’ll give you one more chance.
How dirty is your underwear?
Does your skin lack Romance?
If so, take home this packet of Persil.
Remember, Dulux, if you wish
To change yourself to a grey-nurse, ’ll
Make you another fish.
“Now, let me see, since we began
You’ve dropped to twenty pound—
The sort of shark no fisherman
Would care to have around;
I want to build you up, my lad —
Two thousand pound, at least —
Make poor old Uncle Jackie glad;
Shark, please do your best!
“Now, tell me —Well! Well! Well! Well! Well!
I can’t believe my eyes!
You lucky shark —saved by the bell!
Observe my great surprise!
Now you can sling your honk, you know,
And never once come back ;
Or you can have another go” . . .
The shark said, “0.K., Jack.”
Then Davey shed a silent tear,
Immersed in noble thoughts;
“What lovely sharks you have down here —
A splendid lot of sports!”
And let us pray the shark that’s gone
May not turn out a liar,
For if it’s not back soon, the con-
sequences may be Dyer.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


“8.J.L.”: “Bo’s” butcher on the verge
of bankruptcy (B. 5/3/’52) reminds me
of a farmer I jvorked for years ago. One
of the really affluent well-established type,
he was, withal, a terrific whinger. After
a prolonged moan about all rural hard-
ships, he paused for breath and my mate
Jonesy cut in. “Yes,” he said, glancing
over his shoulder to where a gleaming
sedan stood, “you can always pick a
farmer by the old pushbike he rides.”
* * * #
“Harold Hardupp”; Puzzlement of a
friend at my use of the one-tirpe well-
understood phrase “Beating his joss”
brought an explanation which reminded
me that I did not know now where any
joss-house existed in Sydney. Once there
were several wherever Chinese citizens
dwelt, quite apart from the private josses
that the owner could spank whenever
things went wrong with him. A wander
about the quarters where our Celestial
fellow-citizens are mostly gathered failed
to find a single joss-house ; the least
Europeanised-looking Chinese to whom I
spoke surprised me by saying briefly “Me
Plesbyterian,” Probably having given up
pigtails, bound feet and other formerly
essential characteristics, our Chinese have
given up josses too. But they still explode
crackers over the graves at Rookwood to
frighten away the spirits.
♦ * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”; In a small pub of
a hamlet not far from Sydney I dis-
covered something I thought had
vanished from the hotel-business. Behind
the publican’s pulpit was a small black-
board crisscrossed with chalk-marks;
when someone in the bar said “Stick
those up for me till Friday” the bar-
maid made an additional chalk-mark, so
indicating that this was indeed a slate.
In other days the slate used to hang on a
cord behind Bung’s head in every pub.
Of course, one or two hostelries definitely
abolished the custom much earlier than
others; one that was very near Old
Poverty Point had obvious reasons. Into
this pub one day came a ipagnificent
Ham to order a tankard of beer ; he took
a good draught from it before he deigned
to notice that the barmaid was waiting
for his coin. Then he asked her to “put
that on the slate, rp’ dear.” Very definitely
the barmaid told him “We don’t keep a
slate.” He took another prodigious swig
before he spoke again. “What a pity!
What a pity!” he said. “You might for-
get it” Th.en he emptied the pot and
walked magnificently out.
* * * ♦
“Magister”: Add this one to the col-
lection of Jaypee stories: On a holiday
in North Queensland, I was having a
casual pot with a stranger when two
detectives entered the bar. Approaching
me they lined-up, ope either side, and
said quietly “We want you up at the
station.” Knowing them both well, I
went without demur, but remarked on
the fact that if it was official business I
was unshaven, unshorn, bootless and
shirtless. I was assured that it was all in
order. A kite-flier from the South was
operating in the town; they had the
goods on him, but no warrant. One of
his victims was at the station and would
lay a complaint, after which they hoped
that I would find justification for the
issue of a warrant. At the police-station
we were confronted by a dignified lady
who took one look at me and said, “No!
that isn’t him!” and who took some con-
yincjng that 1 was the only available
magistrate to whom she could pour out
her tale of woe. After the formality of
a stat. dec. and an examination of the
evidence I signed the warrant, the
detectives took me back to the pub—and
arrested my erstwhile drinking
companion
*’* * *
“Findy”: I always mutter in my beard
when I read about “daring hold-ups,”
“daring jail-breaks” or “daring
burglaries,” feeling that the use of the
“Your lap isn't as comfortable as Mother's used to be."
adjective should be confined to deeds of
courage in a worthy cause. Its applica-
tion to the exploits of petty bandits and
rogues not only cheapens the word, but
tends to glorify their misdeeds, even sug-
gesting to the impressionable minds of
youth that they may be worthy of emula-
tion. It was therefore with pleasure that
I read last week in the Sydney “Sun” of
a “brazen” bank robbery in Adelaide. At
last, I thought, our newshounds are get-
ting these things in the right perspective.
But my beard didn’t go unmuttered in
for long. Almost the first item on the
A.B.C. news-session told of a “daring
bank robbery in Adelaide.”
* * * ♦
“P.T.”: At the beginning of the cen-
tury the term Anglo-Indian denoted men
like Kipling and Birdwood who were
born in India of British parents, or
Englishmen who had gone out to carry
the white man’s burden in the Indian
Civil Service. I remember being
astounded years ago when an Australian
woman assured me that Kipling was a
Eurasian.. Her mistake would have
seemed more understandable today. Re-
porters and others who go down to the
“Gout! It's the pace we live at these days , I suppose .”
ports to meet ships from India have be-
come quite used to hearing “sunburnt”
passengers of mixed parentage called
“Anglo-Indians,” the term “Eurasian”
having been dropped as one likely to give
offence. By way of contrast, the special
meanings attached to some of our older
words are still retained. At the end of
a week of stop-work meetings and
similar industrial upheavals, a Perth
paper carried a front-page story, headed
“Big Strike near Coolgardie.” It re-
lated how two prospectors had struck
pay-dirt in a show they’d been working.
* , * c *
S.H.H. : Not relaxation of recruiting
standards (B. 19/3/’52) but sheer careless-
ness by an examining doctor gave Britain
one of her finest fighter pilots in the first
war. With only one good eye, at the test
he clapped his hand over the dud twice
and got away with it He was Mickey
Mannock, V.C. and a string of other
decorations, and by the time he was shot
down by M.G. fire he had accounted for
over 60 enemy aircraft.
* * * *
“Vingter”: Apnong the members of the
Torres Straits Pilots’ Association, I recall
an inveterate prankster who, unlike most
such humorists, enjoyed as much as any
the joke which turned on himself. On
one occasion the victim of a rag retaliated
by pinching the natty little officer’s cap
with which the mariner topped off the
immaculate duck uniform he wore when
ashore at Thursday Island. In its stead
was left a battered and shapeless felt
whose serrated rim showed that the
tastier portions had been consumed by
the T.I. goats before it was salvaged from
the backyard of the pub. Affecting not
to notice the substitution, the pilot
donned the changeling chapeau, and,
without the slightest sign of embarrass-
ment, wore it round during the week in
which he had to wait before be took over
his next ship.
* * * *
“W.J.C.”: So “Sackville” (B. ;z / ’‘ 2)
wonders what would happen if a jt‘ -
oh strolled into a posh nightclub with
his chaffbag? I’m not an expert in
night spots, but not so long.ago I saw a
tall, well-groomed guy dressed in what
are often described as “immaculate tails”
walk the length of a high-class ballroom
in Sydney carrying a dirty sugarbag full
of what it takes to keep a party cheerful.
His suit was a credit to his tailor, his
collar and shirt an advert for his laundry.
Nobody seemed to think that there was
anything odd about the spectacle.
* H* H: *
“Pip Tok”: There were ingredients for
the opening of a good mystery thriller —
a car, with what looked like a body inside
it, parked on a lonely bush road —in a
report made by a member of the public
to the Midland Junction (W.A.) police-
station. Prompt investigation proved the
report accurate, but gave an O. Henryish
anticlimax to the mystery. The investi-
gating John found the car easily enough,
and there was certainly a body inside it —
a live one belonging to an official of the
Roads Board who had been putting in
that day and the one before it taking a
census of cars passing along that stretch
of road.
* * * *
“Doric”: We were being guided
through Stratford-on-Avon, and in due
course came to Ann Hathaway]s cottage.
After a long talk by the custodian of the
villa another tourist approached me.
“Excuse me,” he said, “I didn’t like to
ask anyone else but a fellow-Australian,
but” —here he lowered his voice—“who
was Ann Hathaway?”
* * * *
“Blue P.”: More than once I’ve seen
a country newspaper editor tear his hair
because a reporter wrote of a local meet-
ing that “the president presided” or that
there were “various varieties” of flowers
at the local flower-show; now the
Queensland Cane Growers’ Council may
cause more hair-tearing. It has gravely
informed all and sundry that “the Aus-
tralian Government has failed to realise
the reality of the situation.”
He * * *
“Bamekaw”: She had read an article
on the drug-traffic in a magazine. “Isn’t
it terrible,” she rattled off, “to think of
those poor people being slaves to a habit
without willpower to break it off. I was so
depressed when I finished reading it that
I had to take a couple of A.P.C. powders.”
“You take them often?” I asked. “Oh,
yes. Whenever I’m depressed, or jumpy,
or fagged, I find them marvellous. And,
of course, with my insomnia I’d never be
able to sleep at night if I didn’t take a
couple going to bed.” “How do you get
on if your supply runs out?” I asked.
“Oh, the grocer has a standing order for
my supply every week,” she told me,
“and if I run short I can always pick up a
packet at a store. It’s a little dearer buy-
ing them that way, but what’s it matter
when they’re so necessary to keep one
settled.” She whizzed off, and as I mused
tolerantly on just what some people re-
gard as an addiction to a habit, I lit a
fresh cigarette. Yes, I know I smoke too
much, but I find it hard to give up, and
I get nervous and cranky when I try. And
what’s two or three bob a day, anyway,
as long as a man gets some pleasure
from his smoking?
» * » *
“Carnac”: Smartest tobacco-cadger I
ever met bit me for a smoke many
years ago. Gladly he accepted a full 2oz.
tin 1 had found mildewed on opening.
His next move, I heard later, was to post
it down to the manufacturers. In a cover-
ing letter he explained that the brand was
very popular in the district and had been
a favorite of his for many years. His
meeting with this defective 2oz. had there-
fore been a shock, but as it doubtless
resulted from some rare slip-up in the
processing he had refrained from broad-
casting the matter. Rather he thought
the manufacturers themselves would be
glad to know of it. They were. They
told him so by letter and asked him to
be good enough to accept a gift of five
pounds of their top-quality weed.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Time changes everything —
even kids’ games. Sometimes the changes
can be traced to modern trends; for
instance, we used to command “Bail up! ”
now the kids holler “Stick ’em up!” in
approved Western fashion. What I can’t
figure out, however, is why the report of
the revolver is no longer a loudly-shouted
“Bang!” but a sound delivered with the
lips still: “C-rrr.” It doesn’t sound like
a shot—even the way Hollywood records
shooting; still, the method is universal
throughout kiddom, I remarked on
the phenomenon to a neighbor. His
reply was chilling: “My boy has been
taught not to play games that involve
mock killing and imitation firearms. No
wonder we have wars and crimes of
violence when children are allowed to
play games that instil into their receptive
minds that shooting people is harmless
fun.” If I’d believed implicitly in
psychology I could have pointed out the
horrible things that repressions bring
about. Instead, I changed the subject.
An hour later, as I strolled through the
bush-track, a youthful figure jumped out
from behind a bush and commanded;
“Stick ’em up!” Dutifully I obeyed,
‘T>rrr.” I was shot down in cold blood.
But you’ve already guessed the identity
of my assassin.
TO HELL WITH NATURE.
Not having unlimited means,
When I had to cough up half-a-dollar
For a pound of most bendable beans,
I chatted the vendor of greens.
Heartrending, indeed, was his holler.
The dry spell—yes, that was the curse;
It had meant nigh the ruin of business.
He’d close if things got any worse.
Though one thing would right every purse:
Good rains. 1 regretted my quiz-ness.
The drought, you’ll recall, was prolonged.
I thought my greengrocer-forecaster,
Whom I had so wretchedly wronged,
Must surely have been getting pronged
To the brink of financial disaster.
From the wilting trade-winds, though, he must
Have been sheltering well on the lee-side,
For I found out he hadn’t gone trust,
In fact, I was told, he had just
Bought a big block of flats at the seaside.
Came the rains—just in time, as of yore.
In the Press came the usual voicing
That now all our troubles were o’er.
The cockies were well to the fore
In all the triumphant rejoicing.
It followed, of course, that some mutts
Made the usual sweeping prediction
That we’d soon have calamitous gluts,
Making certain of savage price-cuts—
Which is really a beautiful fiction,
For the beans at the shop had, I found
(They bent, as of old, without snapping),
Now shot up to three-bob a pound;
So I tackled the opulent hound •
While my cold-storage beans he was wrapping.
His voice shook; his face turned quite sad
At my words of complaint; he came nearer
To hand me my parcel, “It’s bad,”
He explained. “It’s because we have had
The rain that the vegies are dearer.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


tomahawk. Can we come again next
Sunday? If you like I’ll bring you some
beaut tomaters that are just about ripe.”
Old Peter laid his horny hand on Jim’s
head. “Bless you, lad,” he mumbled and
walked into his hut.
All the way home the boys talked.
Whatever Old Peter had been in his life,
he could never have expected to be what
he was now —a boys’ idol, worshipped
with fanatical and private intensity.
FROM fourteen rhythm aspirants Mr.
Lester, the headmaster, picked Jim
to play the school’s latest acquisition—
the drum ; to march the whole school in
at eight in the morning and again after
dinner at one. So soon as school was out
for dinner Jim grabbed his drum and
lugged it outside, letting Charlie carry
one stick. He lifted it on to a seat under
the big camphor-laurel, and there the
class clustered to touch and admire.
The drum had been used in the Boer
War, with thick sides painted red, white
and blue, and a couple of lions couchant,
and a drumhead so sonorous it might
have been made of biltong. The sticks
were ebony, long and heavy, and its
snares on the bottom had been reduced
from eight to three through the passage
of the years. Nevertheless, Jim’s drum
was to be heard, once, on the top of
Tick Hill two miles away.
But one was there who stood off from
the band, glowering at the prize-winner
with envious dislike. Amos Sneldon was
a big boy for his age, mainly through a
doting mother’s puff-pastry and quarter-
pound blocks of chocolate and a natural
reluctance on Amos’s part to indulge in
any exercise more strenuous than mas-
ticating them. He was always well
dressed —his father owned the foundry
—and he invariably wore shoes and
socks. Yet this ragamuffin from Tick
Hill with a pair of sandshoes on his feet
and an odd-colored patch on his seat had
beaten him for the prize. Unused to it,
Amos’s disappointment welled over in
blind rage. He moved over to where
Jim stood among the admiring group.
One good sock would fix him.
He said “Hey, you!”
Jim turned and read the danger-signal.
He stiffened beside his drum, as thin as
a rail and as hard. Amos drew back
his great podgy fist and lunged. To a
range-bred lad used to dodging sub-
consciously the whip of lantana branches
and lawyer-vines while he looked about
for wallabies and birds’ nests Amos s paw
coming at him looked as an acre of mov-
ing earth would to a fly. He bent his
body, took a quick step forward, and with
his bony right fist flattened Amos’s
fleshy nose out towards his ears. Charlie
whooped with glee and Amos whooped
with pain.
lIM had been tapping away for a week
* when Charlie’s father, who taught
the violin, and the Fetts out near the
bacon-factory, whose five girls he taught
as well, suggested a Saturday musical-
evening. Mr. Harper thought it a good
idea to have a time-keeper, so back went
Jim, Charlie and Tiger on Friday after
school to the headmaster’s house with a
note.
Mr. Lester was annoyed at this re-
minder of his week’s work, but Charlie’s
father and his fiddle were handy on the
night of the school dance. So Jim got
the drum.
He would have liked to carry it
through the main street and every other
street where the school-kids lived, but
this exquisite pleasure he had to forgo
in order that he might indulge in one
just as ecstatic —he had to have time to
practice.
It was Charlie who, before they got
home, suggested showing the out-of-
school prize to Old Peter.
“Yes,” breathed Jim. “He’s been in the
war —he might even ha’ played one.”
His face lit. “An’ I can march you
down.”
Charlie grimaced. “Aw, cut it out.
What if me sister sees me?”
“She won’t. Come on, Chas.” Jim
bent his freckled face into the other’s.
“If you do —I’ll let you have a go when
we get into the scrub a bit.”
At this irresistible bribe Charlie took
station behind his cobber and the three
of them altered course for the range.
Reluctantly, just above Peter’s hut,
Charlie handed over the drum. They
marched down the rough track side by
side, Jim distributing his beats pretty
evenly between the drumhead and the
wooden edge as the drum swung
clumsily under his left thigh.
OLD PETER emerged with an axe,
after the evening’s wood, as they
came up.
“Hullo. What’ve you got there?”
“ ’Lo, Mr. Vickers. It’s a drum. My
drum that I play at school. We thought
we’d just bring her down and” Jim
trailed off. Old Peter had dropped his
axe against the wall of the shanty and
was staring strangely at the drum. Fac-
ing him was the coat-of-arms, its lions
and crossed rifles and draped flags still
bright blue and red under the dirty white
of the tightening cord. He reached out
his hand.
“Take it off, boy,” he said quietly.
“Take it off and let’s have a look,”
Jim wriggled his shoulders out of the
strap.
“Have you, ever played one, Mr.
Vickers?”
Peter took the drum, flicked a horny
thumb against the skin, listened, looked
at Jim, and suddenly laughed.
“Played one, boy—played one?” He
whipped the strap over his shoulder.
“Ever heard of the Royal Marines? No,
course you haven’t. Played one?
Listen! ”
His back straightened, he lifted both
hands to his chin, elbows at right-angles,
sticks rigid across his chest, tips touch-
ing. Then with a crash the sticks fell
rattling upon the drumhead and Peter
was marching up and down the beaten
track outside his hut, head up, a light in
his eyes, his grimed hands tossing and
falling and beating in a practised whirr
that rattled the old drum down and across
the listening valleys as it had once given
brazen tongue across the veldts of
Africa.
Jim and Charlie listened to the staccato
cacophony in wide-eyed delight. Peter
played on —but not on his brown-dirt
terrace ; he was in a London street, lead-
ing 2000 men in a march; or parading,
all glitter and sparkle and stamping feet,
on a white holystoned quarter-deck to
receive an admiral.
It was nearly 10 minutes before he
tired ; he halted before the nippers, his
momentary sheepishness dispelled by
Jim’s ardent “Gee, Mr. Vickers—will I
ever be able to play like that?”
“Sure you will, son. Practice, that’s
an you want—practice. Here, take this
stick. No, like this. Now* the thumb
does all the work”
It was a thumb-sore Jim who lugged
the heavy drum home later that after-
“ 00 M r^ e “lf° r the hTkeot him
would be difficult to say which kept him
awake longer—his impatience tor the
dawn or his idolising of a man who could
play a drum like that. But, drum or no
drum. Mum’s Saturday jobs had to be
done—a load of firewood from the bush
crowding the Back Paddock; the billy-
cart of gravel from the pit up near Krog’s
place for the front path, payment for
which had already been spent at the
pictures last Saturday; and, with his
three brothers, the front veranda scrubbed
with the straw broom and buckets of
water, and scrubbed again after Tiger,
paddling in the slush under the house
where the scrubbing water dripped
through, had paddled on to the wet
veranda—and not till well after dinner
were Jim and Tiger free to practise.
UP behind Krog's fence under a
loquat-tree he settled the drum be-
tween his knees. Krog’s place was a
hundred yards up the road from his own
and always had old broken-down cars
outside so that the gravel road was
blotched with grease and tyre marks. He
owned a small garage in town. None of
the kids liked Krog. Big and surly, he
wouldn’t let them skin his loquat-tree,
nor set their sparrow-traps under the
thorn bushes in his back paddock where
half the Downs spoggies seemed to
muster.
Jim rolled his sleeves up, settled his
rump, flicked his hair back and started,
In the quiet of that drowsy Saturday
afternoon the old drum sounded like a
battery of artillery. First a covey of
starlings flew out from under Krog’s roof,
then Binns’s dog started to bark, which,
of course, started Kerr’s and Knight’s
and Kidston’s. Through all this caco-
phonic accompaniment Jim wielded his
drum-sticks, as taught, if not with the
skill, then certainly the appreciation, of
a drummer of the Royal Marines.
Krog must have been very deeply
asleep, for it was a full quarter of an
hour before his big boots crunched on
the gravel path and the gat© flew open,
Tiger growled and Jim stood up.
Have you been beatin that blasted
drum?" Krog growled. you
harelH M mongrel dog
lim was not a vi tluous son by any
m£ans But tWQ things he had neve r
don£ . told a big lie (it was useless here ,
anyway ) or ever allowed the slightest dis-
paragement directed at Tiger. One day
s j ster Marge had referred to Tiger as
“ you smelly mongrel.” Now, that wasn’t
f a j r> as the dog with his short hair and
constant swimming in the creek smelt
on j y 0 f grass-seeds and now and then of
a lizard. So that night, when Marge
ru bbed vaseline on her eyelids for the
benefit of the beau who was taking her
to gj Thomas’s Hall dance, she glamor-
ised her optics with a liberal coating of
jj m ’ s bike-grease and came rushing out
to Mum looking like A 1 Jolson.
So Jim looked into the ugly face above
b im with its nose covered in grease
blackheads and said quaveringly:
“Yes, I’m playin’ the drum, and you
can ’t kick me or my dog or I’ll go you.”
Krog lifted his boot and caught Tiger
a thump on the rump that sent him yelp-
jn g j n p a j n in a circle and back, crouch-
jn g behind Jim’s legs. Jim flew at Krog
w jth his little fists whirling, to be met
w j t b a cuff that knocked him flat on his
back. And at that moment Old Peter
C ame walking up from the town, his
sugarbag of weekend meat and bread
s i ung over his shoulder. Jim stumbled
to b im, hot tears of rage and thankful-
ness wc lling down his face. He clutched
Peter’s arm and walked back close be-
side him, staring in mingled fright and
anger at Krog.
“What’s all this?” said Peter im-
portantly, divining at a glance just what
it all was. “What’s the trouble?”
“I’ll tell you what the trouble is, you
old sot. This blasted kid has kept me
awake all afternoon with that drum
there! And I just said I’d kick him and
his drum over the fence—and if you
don’t like it I’ll kick you over with
’em!”
Jim looked at Krog in awe, then up
at Peter. Gee, old Krog was asking for
it! Peter would flay him alive for that,
But seconds passed and Peter made
VARIOUS VERSE
LIZARD ON A ROCK.
I came on him softly.
Dreaming on his basking-rock
Still as his couch —
A grey lizard;
To a feathered eye
A mere rock-wart.
His eyes shuttered, not shut,
I saw with joy
His slitted agate watching
The moving tree approach.
I stopped and knelt,
Slitted my eyes
Lest he mistake me.
Watching, I dreamed
His dream and the rocks’.
I rose as a leaf-lift
And left in a silent music.
VICTORIA.
BRIAN VREPONT.
WALK IN THE BUSH.
What shall we find in the Bush? What
shall we find?
Search in a room, alone, the uttermost
mind.
There you will find it, loneliness . . .
Walled by insane
Scarps of bewildering rocks; up, up on
a plain.
An immense bleached distance beyond
to travel alone:
And, there, the wide miles of death for
anyone.
Do not clasp hands with another. You
will not hold long,
Palm in palm of a lover. It would
burn like the thong
Of a whip, with his heat and his blood,
sticky upon it.
Walk, then, the journey, alone, as
others have done it:
Grass in your socks, horned lizard upon
your tongue;
And a mind in your skull, like a
meddling compass gone wrong.
Not, as some wish, a green walk be-
neath great oaks;
Not, as you read of, fountains stream-
ing from rocks:
But the track stumbling up, prickling
with heat and flies,
And the plain stretching out, as far as
your burning eyes
Will look. Search in your heart, as you
will;
If you return from this, applaud your
skill.
You will have come out of that room,
its walls will lie flat.
And there will be much outside to
wonder at.
Suddenly, beauty will touch you. You
will discern,
Where, in the bushfire’s track, they
escaped from the burn,
Age-old among the rocks, this cycad,
that gum,
Sprinkling their leaves in the sunlight
outside your room.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
THIS YEAR BEFORE IT ENDS.
This year, before it ends, holds out time
as a weight to us,
We that are met in the streets as the
streets are met in us—
And light is a weight, too; men shake
it mightily off.
A youth, kicking the self-starter of a
motor-bike, sends
A vast vibration out to the sun, and it
returns his shadow in rain.
Out from the sun startles the line of
things, and the flying cars
Set their undertones in a dark and
silver note upon the line.
Even the weeds, ground weeds, can in
their green brains sing that song.
This year, before it ends, is the im-
ploring city ageing before us,
Raising the delicate dust from the
streets as a veil that will
Set million-branched forests sibilant be-
fore its eyes . . . Faint darkness,
And the desolate set of the tides, hidden:
only the shadowed face
Dust-powdered, stone-calm, set to us,
and the sad cry of the pilgrims
In the slow patch of moonlight under
the nameless trees, crying
"Our god was night-hour, and the
white path before us;
We, the homeless: and the shuddering
branches ours and the great moan,
Rising out of agony, and the going,
form on form of the dead;
And the facade that we are; this year
before it ends.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.
TICKET-OF-LEAVE MAN.
“Across the mountains, in the distant
blue,"
So ran his thoughts. the nudge and
hungry leer
Of the unknown accost me. It is time
To dump the pompous beadledom of
fear.”
Mewed in his wish, he looked out on
the world
As on some evil he must needs escape;
He would not wear the universal cloak,
Who had designed his cloth to other
shape.
“I am a man who kneels, and yet would
stand
Out where the thoughts of man and
God expand.”
Deep in his mind, like subtle unison
Of all the world’s oppressed in
measured song,
The anthem of his past sang endlessly.
Here in this land the world must right
a wrong,
Or else that song, that faith were
mystery
Far stranger than the one now made
his own;
The one that held, perhaps, air-drawn
Cathay
Behind a door of fern-frond-hidden
stone.
Followed in faith, he led his pack-horse
on
To that new hope which still so brightly
shone.
Three days the stark and hunger-bitten
land
Lay chapped beneath a harsh, frenetic
sun
Whose anger burned the core of living.
Time
Was cindered in the heart of everyone.
The fuscous heights, aloof the needs of
man,
Stood glumly in the path of his desire;
Their valleys husbanding cold mountain
springs ,
Laced tight in ferns from daytime s
lusty fire.
Not till the rise to one small, narrow pass
Did daytime hide its sky of burning
glass.
Now he has seen the bower-bird set up
Her store of brightly colored nothings;
heard
A bell ring clear; a whip’s ecstatic lash
Crack silence like an egg. There is the
word .
On all men’s lips that soon the final
Of ranges will be met, and then the end.
The end to days in tall, treed temples;
nights
By campfires in the ghostly blue moon-
Then will his dream of caverned loneli-
ness
Dissolve to sweeter clamor of success.
N.S.W.
ERIC IRVIN.


President of the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation
Recommends
this Investment
to AU Australian
Country People
m
>x ; >
m
:
WM
m.
m.
m
Mr. H. A. Colwill stresses the many
benefits offered by the 15th Security Loan.
"The 15th Security Loan,” says Mr. Col-
will, "gives the people of Australia an
opportunity to support the plans of the
Governments to finance public works and
services of the Commonwealth and the
States. It also has the advantage of being
a gilt-edged investment, giving security of
assets and providing a regular income.
"The value of Commonwealth Securities
is enhanced by the tax rebate of 2/- in
the £,” Mr, Colwill added. "The vast
developmental works in progress will
make quite a considerable difference to
those people with country interests, and
I have no hesitation whatever in recom-
mending country people all over Australia
to make an investment in the 15th
Security Loan.
"The success of the Loan will mean the
carrying out of electrical undertakings,
water conservation and other schemes
which have already commenced.”
BEST FOR AUSTRALIA, BEST FOR YOU. Whichever way you look
at it, the 15th Security Loan is obviously the best place for your savings.
Invested in this Loan, your money will be safe—repayment in full at
maturity of your Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth. Interest
—3|% per annum on 10-13 Year Securities, 2% per annum on 3-Year
Securities —will be paid every six months. And this interest will be subject
to an Income Tax rebate of 2/- in the £. Put your savings where they will
do most good for yourself and for Australia —invest them at once in the
15th Security Loan through any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker.
Invest in Australia . . . Invest in the
15" SECURITY LOAN
LOAN FACTS; (1) The Loan will provide for conversion of maturing Commonwealth Securities,
and help to pay for public works and services of the Commonwealth and the States. (2) Bonds or
Inscribed Stock may be purchased for cash or by instalments through any Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker. (3) 10-13 Year Securities (issued at par) will bear interest
at 31% per annum. 3-Year Securities (issued at par) will bear interest at 2% per annum.
(4) Minimum subscription for 10-13 Year Securities is £lO of Bonds or £lOO of Inscribed Stock.
Investors who already hold £lOO of Stock may subscribe £lO or more. For 3-Year Securities the
minimum subscription is £l,OOO of Bonds or Inscribed Stock. (5) Interest will be paid every six
months. (6) Repayment in full at maturity of face value of Securities is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth Government.
CONVERT YOUR MATURING SECURITIES: If you hold 2% Commonwealth Securities maturing
on April 15, 1952, you may convert your holdings into the 15th Security Loan.
5L21.H4.32
no move, apart from moving Ms
eyes in every direction but at
Krog’s. And as Jim waited for
annihilation to rend his enemy,
and his enemy still stood there
sneering, he knew with a
horrible screwing in his stomach
that his idol had taken the
insult.
Krog gave the drum a con-
temptuous kick and with a
laugh that filled Jim’s eyes with
a mist of rage and shame turned
and went back through the gate.
No word was spoken on the
way home, Jim carrying his
drum and fighting back the
tears. Peter’s face was white
and strained, and once he looked
down at Jim’s quivering face
and with a flinch jerked his head
away.
MUM had the tea ready, but
Jim couldn’t eat. He kept
his face down, not daring to
meet the inquiry in his father’s.
Soon Dad got up and went in-
side. Mum was busy in the
kitchen.
“What’s the matter. What’ve
you been crying for? Did Dad
catch you up to something?”
The questions flew. Jim looked
round at the ring of faces and
ran out into the backyard. There
Tiger joined him.
Only Peter and what he used
to call his soul know what he
went through that night, alone
on his chaffbag bed with his
memories and his shame.
Next day, Sunday, Jim was
not interested in the day’s plans
—down the precipice for water-
cress, or a run down the range,
or burning-off the side paddock.
He sat up the back under the
plum-tree and read comics, and
on every page he saw Old Peter’s
face when Krog threatened to
kick him over the fence.
Just before dark, when Jim
was crossing the road on his way
to listen to Charlie’s gramo-
phone, he saw Peter coming
down the road. He whistled
Tiger peremptorily and broke
into a run across the paddock.
Peter made no attempt to stop
him, just trudged on.
Tortured between the longing
to unburden his heart to his mate
and shame at that burden, Jim
brought Charlie away from the
gramophone, out into the warm
dusk, to throw gibbers at lamp-
posts. He tried to excuse Peter,
his condition, his shiftless living ;
he remembered how he must
have been in his youth, tough,
lean, a hard-bitten adventurer;
and the more he contrasted
Peter’s present softness with
Krog’s work-hardened bulk the
worse he felt. Now Old Peter
could never, ever, play the drum
again.
They wandered nearer home,
Jim glum, Charlie wondering.
Under the street-light outside
Krog’s place they saw old Krog
as he hung the milk-billy on the
gate. He looked up for a
moment and Jim saw, oh! saw
his face!
The boy breathed “Mr.
Vickers! ” and flew up the road.
Tiger’s ears dancing beside him,
leaving Charlie agape under the
light. Past his own front gate,
up and over the hill, breathlessly
stumbling down the rough track
and swift-footed through the
paspalum and cabbage-garden.
Outside Peter’s dark door he
stopped. There was no sound,
only a labored breathing, now
and again a groan. Jim pushed
the door softly.
“Mr. Vickers?,” he breathed
into the dark.
There was no answer. ‘‘Mr,
Vickers?”
“What d’you want?”
“Oh, Mr. Vickers. I just saw
him. And, Mr. Vickers—he’s
got a corker black eye!”
“Get to blazes out of here,”
Old Peter said. And smiled in
the dark through his broken
lips.
HP HE man stood up from the
1 desk, still looking at the
drum. He smiled at his thought;
you couldn’t pinch a school
drum, even though long dis-
carded, like you’d raid old
Krog’s loquats. He walked out
into the hard sunlight, blinking,
across the empty yard and into
hia car.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Boston”; One of the two old
fossickers who had shared a humpy for
20 years had been admitted to the hospital
with his head and arms badly burned
after having dozed off in front of the fire
and fallen in. He was sitting up in the
ward with one eye showing through a
swathe of bandages when his mate came
in. First a 10-minutes silence while the
visitor lit his pipe and chuckled
reminiscently. Then the words of com-
fort came. “Y’ know. Bill, when I seen
y’ come in that day I knew y’d had a
few at the pub. So y’ sits down, sleepy-
like, on y’r stool and y’ lights y’r pipe.
“Hullo, Len! You're back from the Never-Never!”
I’m watchin’ y’ all the time, Bill. Then
y’ starts noddin’ yT ’ead up an’ down
and yT pipe drops on the floor. So I
sez to meself ‘Bill, if y’ dpn’t watch out
y’ll fall in that there fire.’ So I’m watchin’
y’, an’ stone the crows if y’ don’t go in
all of a heap.” More chuckles as he
relived the scene, followed by another
few minutes’ silence. Then with a “So
long, Bill,” he tottered out of the ward.
Not a word all this time from the victim
—just a puzzled look in his old eye as
though there was some point he hadn’t
quite grasped.
# ♦ * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The religious pioneer
who, for North Queensland Binghis,
pictured the Deity as proprietor of a
celestial store (B. 12/3/’52) certainly
knew his evangelical onions—and his
natives. The pulling-power of the promise
of unlimited tucker is tremendous among
abos and islanders, as instance the estab-
lishment of a bamboo-and-pandanus
isolation hospital on Badu Island, in
Torres Strait, during a virulent influenza
outbreak. Stamina of the patients was
built up by liberal issues of gruel, rice
and condensed milk and other delicacies
dear to Binghi palates. The news of this
largesse on the part of a suddenly madly-
munificent “Gubmint” drifted down to
the village and fell on the ears of those
unfortunate natives cursed with perfect
health, The response was immediate and
devastating to harassed officialdom,
which awoke one balmy morn to find
nearly every member of the village
population uncomfortably but hopefully
installed within the bulging walls of the
“isolation” hospital.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Little Curl brought the
news. “One of them young ewes in the
Hopbush paddock has triplets,” After
“You must 'a' got out of the wrong side of the bed, mate.”
breakfast the boss and all available
hands rode up to see the wonder. The
boss was like a dog with two tails; he
’phoned up sheepmen far and wide,
rushed into town, spread the news every-
where. Little Curl no longer rode alone
around the lambing-ewes in the cold grey
of morning; the boss rode with him and
sat and admired that ewe while L.C.
helped the stricken, mothered the lost and
succored the orphan. This went on for
10 days, then the boss began staying in
bed, contenting himself with asking Curl
how the wonder ewe was doing. Fifteen
days from his first announcement Little
Curl rode back and announced, “Hey,
y’ know that ewe had the triplets? Well,
she’s got twins now.” The boss’s eyes
nearly popped out, then he recovered.
“What are y’ givin’ us!” he demanded.
“That’s impossible.” “It blanky well
ain’t impossible,” Little Curl retorted.
“One of the triplets is dead.”
* * ♦ *
“Bad Australian”: The often-expressed
claim that the Californian redwood is the
world’s tallest and bulkiest tree may be
true today, but it was not always so. The
highest eucalypt of which there was
authentic record grew in the ’B,os on Mt.
Baw Baw, Gippsland, Victoria. Clement
Hodgkinson gave the official measure-
ment of this tree as 471 ft. The highest
tree then standing in California was 325 ft.
A eucalypt felled in the Cape Otway
Ranges at the instance of the late Pro-
fessor Wilson measured 328 ft. to the
point where its top had been broken off,
and, allowing for the average taper, 40ft.
had been carried away. Another felled
in the Dandenong Ranges and measured
by D. Boyle taped 420 ft. In his Gold-
fields af Australia the late Brough Smith
included a photograph of a tree 69ft. in
circumference and 330 ft. in height.
* * * *
“The Missus”: Dan’l is the name of
our neighbor’s black-and-tan cattle-dog.
A big, strong fellow, he differs from his
owner by being extremely intelligent and
a good worker. It has been very dry
here lately and our sheep have been run-
ning in a paddock with a long river
frontage. Our exit from the property is
by a small bridge shut off at the end by
a barricade. We inspect this several times
daily because it sometimes happens that
children or holiday-makers coming to
our side of the river, blackberrying or
shooting, forget the age-old law of the
country and leave the bars down. When
this occurs, sheep, generally the same 25
to 30, soon cross the bridge and find their
way on to our neighbor’s precious lucerne
patch. If he sees the intruders before we
manage to retrieve them Dan’l is sent to
round up the jumbucks and drive them up
a steep hill, through a gate and along the
road for a mile or so. The other after-
noon I was working in the garden when
Dan’l came trotting quietly up the track.
He came to the fence, and Gem, my
Border Collie bitch, went over to talk to
him. Nose to nose they stood, either side
of ffie fence, and exchanged a series of
quiet whining noises. Then Dan’l turned
abruptly away and set off in a nor’-east
direction, to the ford. Gem hesitated a
moment, then, with what would have
passed for a shrugged shoulder had she
been human, pushed open the gate and
set off at a rapid pace, sou’-east, towards
the bridge. Curious, I downed tools and
followed, arriving in time to meet her
shepherding the pestiferous woollies off
the lucerne and back over the bridge. She
stood quietly by while I adjusted the
barricade and then we went home to-
gether, but, though I asked her what
Dan’l said in those few minutes by the
fence, I still wonder if it was: “Hey, you
come and do your own dirty work!” or
\“I thought I’d save us all a long trek up
that blessed hill on such a hot day.” How
I wish I knew dog-language!
* * * •
“Slot”: However fish-fry may find
their way into a shallow well
filled by seepage from a 100-yards-
distant river (B. 19/3/’52), there "is a
simple explanation for yabbies reach-
ing newly-excavated tanks many
miles from the nearest water. They have
to thank the white-fronted heron—more
familiarly, the old blue crane —for acting
as a troop-carrier. The long-beaked one,
who can clean-up the goldfish in a sub-
urban pond with wire-netting six inches
above the water, has a feed of yabbies at
another hole. In swallowing then), some
of the eggs from the roe carried by the
females under thesir tails are rubbed off
and caught in the bristles at the base of
the beak. Flying on, the bird spots the
new tank and comes down to fossick in
the mud in case there are any offerings.
When he leaves without satisfying more
than his thirst he has washed off eggs
that stay in the tank to hatch and grow-
up. Next year he has better luck.
* * * *
“Daintree”: The old codger was lost
again, and the mill-manager detailed big
Andy to find him. A thick mizzle drifted
through the scrub, and Andy, wet
through, was disgusted to find the old
bloke sitting disconsolately in the middle
of the track, a few miles from home.
“Here, X thought you were lost,” snorted
Andy, “So I am,” retorted the old-Hin.
“Lost be hanged! You’re right on the
track.” Andy got a dirty glare. “Which
track? I came on six of the blankards
yesterday. Place is stiff with tracks.”
Andy was plainly puzzled. “Yes, but
every one of them leads back to the mill.
You know that.” He stopped, as the old
bloke stubbed a bony forefinger into
his chest, and snapped, ‘‘Listen, smart
Alec! How the hell did I know which
end the mill was? I tried one track, and
came out at one of the old camps.”
Andy’s patience evaporated, “Dammit,
you stupid old galah. All you had to do
was walk back in the opposite direction,
and you’d be home and dry.” “When a
man’s lost he can’t be expected to think
of everything,” was the dignified reply.
« ♦ • 0
“Gravelsnatcher”: Our ’roo-dog
Brindle was well-bred, and he’d proved
himself in the hills south of Perth, but
old Bill, on whose wheatbelt-farrn we
were holidaying, reckoned he’d be no
match for the Koolanooka Toos. “Better
take Snip,” he said. Snip, a kelpie of
sorts, was the house-dog, and Brindle’s
contempt for him was marked. We talked
around the subject for an hour before
we hit on an excuse that avoided hurt-
ing the old bloke’s feelings, and the next
morning we got off
to an early start,
leaving Snip
chained up. We
were the best part
of a mile fipm the
house when he
caught up with us,
by which time
Brindle was out
hunting, and soon
we heard something
coming through the
scrub. He’d put
up a couple of
Toos and was heading them straight
for us, and we were so busy trying to
follow their course that we didn't see
Snip until it happened. He’d apparently
crouched behind a bush, and as the lead-
ing Too reached him he leapt for d 8
throat and brought it down. Bundles
look of blank astonishment was pitiful.
He was so bewildered he let the other
Too go, and he was too disgusted to
look for any more. When we told Bill—
if we hadn’t the confounded mong would
have —he just said “Yair, Snip’s a good
dog.” He didn’t say anything about
Brindle, but the lean bloke’s tail dicmt
rise until we were 50 miles on our way
south.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Harbel”: A neat little gibe about the
flying-ants and stationary bricklayers,
“Becks” (B. 19/3/’52), but in this par-
ticular case, anyway, it wasnt temperea
with justice. However, let one of me
brickies fight his own battle: J
another armchair-architect. They read a
letter in the paper and that makes em
authorities on the building trade, b ry
job in Australia is run the same way, a
all brickies are loafers —they n . ow '
Didn’t they read it? There s °my
cure for a bloke like that: P
‘monkey’ (hod) on his shoulder or
him into a barrow, then let him JW
keep the stuff up to us when w ® . .
‘guts’ walls. Around about. two ocKH*.
when he ‘peeks’ because his fongu
hanging out so far he keeps tnpp g
it, he’ll be willing to take his B
that all brickies are not Commo po
THE POISON-TREE.
Long sleeps the Cow Paddick underneath the
concrete,
Choked with the blue-metal, scalded with the tar,
The childless, lizardless and treeless graveyard
Of dolichos, bird’s nest and green, noon star.
Once the one I loved was the sweetheart of
me sister;
Frankie with the wicked face, he loved me.
An’ it thumpin’ like a caged baboon, an’
weepin’ like a blister,
I’d of took me heart put with me hands, an’
threw it in the sea.
Eight bare feet there, flyin’ like the swallers
(An’ so much alike that we hardly knew our
own),
They go down the Cow Paddick, me an’
Frankie follers.
(Gimme back the stone y’ took. That’s me
lucky stone!)
Down into the Cow Paddick through the broken
palin’
g never saw no cows there, all the time I grew),
olichos and storm-flower, weed and wildflower
trailin’ —
Put the flamin’ stick away, Frankie, now do!
Leapin’ npw like kangaroos, now steppin’ dainty,
Ant’s nest and lizard’s eggs, cave and tiny
mountain —
Frankie, leave the wasp alone! He’s the bad
one, ain’t he!
An’ the centipede’s skedaddled now, before
we finished countin’.,
Six good blue eyes, and two bad brown ones,
Georgie on the flat rock, helpin’ up me sister —
I’d or took me heart out then, and threw it in
the Cow Paddick,
It wilder nor the angry wasp, an’ sorer nor a
blister.
Gimme back me lucky stone. Come up, Julie
darlin’
(Me sinkin’ in the silk sand faster ’n I could
climb),
See the little egg, love, where sleeps the baby
starlin’;
Frankie, crush the leaves up, an’ let her smell
the thyme.
An’ all stretch put now, beneath the castor-oil
trees.
Green stars crowdin’ acrost the midday blue,
Noon sky fretted with the smooth, pink
branches,
The whole world rockin’ to the silly songs
we knew.
The blue and the green, and the dusk-blue
berries—
Leave the poison berries be, Julie love, do !
(Blue-glowing, dark-smiling, Julie’s lovely berries;
The whole world shaking, if only they knew.)
Let the baby Julie suck the sweet lantana,
Leave the berries on the bough, an’ listen to
her sister!
(I’d of give a berry to the boy, an’ tossed me
heart to Jericho,
It achin’ like me weary legs, an’ peelin’ like a
blister.)
The star bones whiten in the faded zenith
Where the brighter blue was broken by the
berry and the bough.
Is there nothing left of all that but bones and
concrete —
Nothing that can bleed and sing, and ache and
learn and grow?
Somewhere do the little worlds still shake the
world —the terrible
Darkness in a drop of dew, the punishing four-
foot climb?
The silly songs run beside the truth that takes
the skin off?
The heart’s toys jostle with the mighty tools of
time?
Somewhere does the silk sand soothe the angry
fingers?
(The poison heart as naked as the berry in the
blue;
The power of the lucky stone unchallenged,
interfering
With the normal earth’s gyrations—if the
scientists but knew!)
N.S.W.
JOYCE LEE.


“Mat’s Mate”: A temperance advocate
joined our grape i snatching gang in
Mildura and proceeded to try to save
us from the demon drink. All day in the
rows and in the midday break he
pleaded and argvfed with us to no avail,
then he took to accusing us of want of
will-power and courage, This was re-
ceived in typical fashion. Next he con-
ceived the notion that if he could convert
Mat the rest of us would be easy, since
Mat whs something of a leader in that
gang. “You’re, a straight fellow, Mat,”
he said, “You’re strong and healthy. If
you don’t want to work for this or that
bosh, you don’t I couldn’t imagine any-
body overcoming your will,” Mat
grunted. “Then why not fight booze?”
the reformer pleaded. “You could give
it up, if you tried—or,” he added cun-
ningly, "could you? Are you strong
enough to do that?” His tone implied
doubt. Mat studied him for a moment,
“ Ain't got many nails in 'em, have they!”
then, “Look, mate,” he said, “donVmake
no mfstake about me. Givih’ up beer is
no trouble t’ me —I’ve done it dozens of
times.”
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Irving”: Though “5.W.A.8.” (B.
12/3/’52), being one of the family, prob-
ably knows the inside story of the spears
in Hie waterhole on Tarong, here’s how
I got it whilst writing the history of the
Queensland South Bumett. The “some-
thing that prompted” J. J. M. Borthwick’s
party to look into the hole in which they
took their daily bogey was old Nanango,
chief of the local tribe, whose friendly
attitude to the pioneer squatters saved
much bloodshed in the district, and who
supplied the name for the now up-and-
ariived town and district of the name.
The planting of the spears was believed
to be a reprisal for Borthwick’s exposure
of several of the young bucks who, by
collusion with a gin employed at the
station, were able to squeeze nightly
down the chimney of the ration-hut and
take toll of the stores. Borthwick was
convinced that his stores were being
pillaged but could not solve the mystery
of their means of egress and exit. Re-
sourcefully he sprinkled the floor of the
hut with flour and next morning saw a
trail of splay footprints leading to the
chimney,
“Pandanus”; “M.U.R.’s” suspended pal
(B. 19/3/’52) recalls the perpendicular
predicament in which my old friend
Hughie found himself. His horse sidled
up against the gate to enable his master
to open it without dismounting, but
Hughie leaned a bit too far over and slid
down between the horse and the closed
gate. Would that nag “Stand over, you
brute”? Not he! Like a welhtrained
stock-horse he kept on sidling against the
gate, keeping his boss pinned there, up-
side down with care. It was fully twenty
minutes before anyone came and a
released Hughie could get his blood-
pressure back to normal again.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”: With the mercury
around the century, old Don’s wife, sweat-
ing over a batch of scones in the oven,
requested her lord to get some more
wood. Don went out, closing the kitchen
door behind him. “Leave that door
open! ” bellowed May. He returned and
opened the door. A few minutes later
he came in with an armful of wood,
paused, and carefuly closed the door.
“Open that door,” breathed his wife
menacingly. Don opened the door, and
May opened out. “Look at him!” she
squealed. “Here it is about a hundred
in the shade and he closes the door. In
the winter-time, when there’s a freezing
westerly blowing, he goes out and leaves
it open.” “Well,” chipped-in Don, “how
in the hell do you expect a bloke to
change his habits in a day or two. In
the spring and autumn y’ dunno what
y’ want!”
* ♦ * *
“Edx” pours eucalyptus-oil on troubled
waters:
I’m no botanist, but it seems that part of the
confusion existing between “Salmon Gums” and
“Charbro” (B. 12/3/’52) is caused by the loose
use of the words species, variety and type, words
which when used in a botanical or zoological
discussion have a definite and restricted mean-
ing. Also, when authorities such as Ewart,
Maiden, Baker and others all agree that classi-
fication of eucalypts is difficult even for the
specialist, little wonder that we amateurs fall
out. Baker and Smith (1903) say “a genus of
ovfcr 300 species”; Professor Ewart (1930) says
“over 200,” without directly contradicting tne
others. It is thought that the genus eucalyptus
is, in relation to other life on the earth, of
fairly recent origin, a view supported by three
well-known features of the eucalypt. With
almost negligible exceptions the whole genus is
native to Australia, indicating development of
the genus after the separation of the island
from Indonesia and Asia; the readiness with
which distinct species cross indicates no really
profound differentiation among the species from
the original generating member, and the ease
with which most species will grow all over the
world through a wide climatic range indicates
that they aren’t yet irrevocably bound to the
Australian climate, soil and atmosphere. The
second is important. When species cross and
recross they can give rise to a bewildering
profusion of what are known as varieties of
the parent species, a variety being either distinct
or inclining more to one parent than the other,
and so, too, for the offspring of varieties.
Thus “Charbro” with his 500 species might be
just as near the mark as “Salmon Gums” with
his 2000 varieties. The job of classifying
eucalypts started in 1788, possibly before, and
has continued ever since. Early botanists,
giving most of their attention to seemingly
obvious indications, in trying to find satisfactory
criteria for sorting the species, soon became
baffled in a maze of conflicting data and over-
lapping characteristics, and at the same time
were struck by the ease and accuracy with which
experienced bushmen could separate an impres-
sive number of species in the field through long
familiarity with timber and locality. This led
to the adoption of more and more factors to
be taken into account in order to arrive at a
satisfactory basis for identification of species.
There is a broad but useful classification of
eucalypts perhaps not very widely known among
the race of urbanites that Australians have
become. The smooth, thin barks are the gums;
the moderately thick, fibrous barks arc the
stringybarks; the rough, deeply-furrowed, up to
3in. armor-plated barks are the ironbarks; and
the bark of the boxes varies between the latter
two. A knowledgeable eye can subdivide further
into such groups as bloodwoods, mahoganies,
woollybarks, woollybutts, turpentines, pepper-
mints, etc., while the expert can go on sub-
dividing further, and the botanist further still,
until he has accounted for all those types that
can reasonably be accorded the status of dis-
tinct species under his system of classification.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Because the poison from
zamia-palm nuts (B. 6/2/,’52) produces a
form of paralysis I’m inclined to think
the active principle is an alkaloid, prob-
ably one allied to the strychnine alkaloid
of nux vomica. As in the nux vomica
seed, glucosides may also be present.
These, like alkaloids, are frequently
poisonous. Glucosides and alkaloids are
so complex and delicate in structure that
neutralisation by limes and aluminates,
generally contained in clay or limestone
waterholes, is most probable. Starches
and tannins are very likely to be present
in the “nuts,” probably accounting for the
blue color after they have been soaked.
Binghi may not always have a scientific
explanation for his treatment of natural
resources, but he is always somebody to
respect in his way of dealing with his
crude pharmacopoeia. It is amazing how
often his age-old practices tie in with
the most modern medical usage.
* * * *
“Jubilee”: “Gravelsnatcher’s” descrip-
tion of martins (B. 30/1/’52) fits the
roosting of starlings almost exactly as
in successive flights they seek their
perches on the manuka scrub in this neck
of the Maoriland woods. The descent of
a flight sounds like the soughing of a
rising wind. I used to watch them from
the house half a mile away, and at that
distance their twittering as they alighted
sounded like escaping gas from a thermal
bore. The starling seems to do his insect-
annihilating on the ground, where he is
the sworn enemy of the grass-grub; the
swallow dines on the wing.
« « * *
“Mel Bergen”; White-ants (B.
27/2/’52)! At Griffith (N.S.W.) the
manager of one of the packing-sheds
found they had climbed up the bare
posts of cypress-pine (which they won’t
eat) and built a covered mud tunnel to the
Oregon beams in the rodf, which they
were busily eating away. How did they
know the Oregon was up there? I have
seen their mud tunnels up the outside of
a jarrah-tree in W.A. for 30ft. to where
a limb was broken off, to get into
the heart of the tree. They will eat green
jarrah but shy off it when dry.
* ♦ ♦ •
“Gravelsnatcher”: Since “Edx” also
thinks that our climate is hard (B.
12/3/’52), I must assume that it seems
so to newcomers. Yet surely a little
thought will show him that he, and not
the climate, is at fault. He asks can 110
degrees for a fortnight be part of a mild
climate. Of course it can. Such a
temperature in a London fog—if such a
condition were possible—would be
unbearable on account of the humidity;
but in the clear atmosphere that is part
of the Australian climate, heat need not
necessarily be harsh. I’ve worked hard
in such temperatures, and if “Edx” is as
young as he sounds he’ll be able to, too,
once he becomes acclimatised. When I
spoke of that part of W.A. south of the
tropics I obviously meant the inhabited
part—the climate in the desert won’t
affect the bulk of the population. How
does “Edx” judge the harshness of a
climate? By its effect on the people who
live in it, surely. He speaks of a 6in.
rainfall. Well, Jiggalong, a native
mission a few hundred miles north of
Meekatharra and practically in desert
country, wanted a matron. In the absence
of applicants a retired nurse was prevailed
upon to take the job. After 12 months
she had a holiday and then went back
for more. Yet a climate in which an
elderly woman can work hard is described
by a man as harsh. Women are working
on farms, in all seasons, throughout
the Westralian agricultural areas, and
I’ll warrant few of them agree with
“Edx.” I suggest that this young English-
man leave his “jolly old book of words’*
with his city landlady and venture into
the Australian countryside. Within a few
months he’ll be laughing with us at his
present simplicity.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“M.S.”: Had heard about the rumpus
out at Bob Lawler’s, so wasn’t surprised
when I ran into Bob in town, to find him
sporting a bruised cheek, a cut lip and a
gammy leg. “It was that blasted Plugger
McSweeny did it,” he told me. “Never
did get on with
that bloke. But
then, hands is
scarce, and the cow
can work awright if
he wan t $ to.”
“Been with jyou
about six months.
hasn’t he?” I inquired. “That’s right,”
he nodded, “and this’s the fourth time
he’s belted hell out of me, just because
we don’t agree on a couple of subjects.
Cow would’ve nearly killed me this time
only a couple of blokes come along. Had
me down and choked half senseless when
they dragged him off; and I bet it’d’ve
served him right if I’d let the John pull
him in like he wanted to.” “Suppose the
first words you managed when you came
to, were to sack him,” I remarked
sympathetically. “Sack him? Aw, cripes
no, I couldn’t do that,” Bob declared.
“They’re only sort of private quarrels
between the two of us, don’t you see?
And nobody can say I’m one of those
blokes that lets sentiment interfere with
business.”
♦ * * *
“H.W.”: Many basic words, such as
“mana” from the Sanscrit “manas,”
signifying mind or intellect, suggest
India as the central pivot from which the
Maori branched out in his wanderings
over the centuries. In India, mana
denoted the subtle force of the creative
power of the god Brahma. Here in N.Z.
the word came to have different shades
of meaning; no English equivalent
exists. Mana meant prestige, authority,
sanctity, a something out of the common,
a power attached as an invisible attribute.
When a Maori chief was about to die —if
he had time —he passed on his valued
belongings with much ceremony when
they included ornaments or weapons of
great mana. A priest would enjoy great
mana because of the success of his incan-
tations to the gods; when a doctor s
patients failed to recover, his mana was
obscured for the time being. A fortress
never taken but often assailed became a
fortress of mana, as did an undefeated
tribe. Ancient Maori chiefs and warriors
were as highly thought of as any Greek
or Roman. The mana of Major Ropata
Wahawaha, who went through the Maori
wars undefeated, was extremely high. On
his deathbed, his sword was given to
Paratene Ngata, who arranged that it be
given to the tribal leaders in council.
War-weapons (particularly) of great
mana became enhanced by a kind
of enchantment, endowed with super-
natural powers; so much so that
where there were no heirs, loved and
valued meres, spears or clubs, were
hidden in caves or buried in swamps and
nevermore seen.
THE NATIVE-BORN.
St. Kilda Junction —where the trams
Thrash up and down all day,
While peak-hour traffic checks and datms,
Breaks loose, and slides away—
Converges on a verdant square
With one old eucalyptus there
Tossing the topmost spray.
If the old eucalypt could but tell
The story of his past,
Like music murmuring through a shell
By many waters cast
On timeless shores, the tale would run
Decades and chapters, one by oife.
From the first page to the last.
The wind Would weave it into songs,
The leaves would lift and gleam
Interpreting the many tongues
Of that tremendous theme
Begun jh his Arcadian youth,
All leaping sap and eager growth,
And ending in a dream.
The calendars and almanacks
Reversed, would we not find
St. Kilda-rpad just wallaby tracks,
Bush-pads that weave and wind,
Eagle-hawks Circling in the blue
That now the mail-plane thunders through,
Much else, gone out of mind?
Flashing of rainbow parakeets
Morning and afternoon,
Brolgas and swans where sungold sheets
The opaline lagoon;
Bunch-feathered emus, ones and twos,
The flop of feeding kangaroos,
Mopokes beneath the moon.
Clippers would curtsy down the bay,
The primitive slopes would know
The horseman and the bullock-dray,
Harrow and axe and plough.
We would watch the white invaders come —
Adventurers all, day dreamers some —
And see the doomed tribes go . . .
So much of history has slipped
Away since he was young
And all the world was eucalypt,
Banksia and brush, and hung
With banners faded long ago.
How much the native-bom must know
For all be holds his tongue.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


fhe'brush-off
■ 0&&I
j mm
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing —
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down” look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
i# Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It’s handier in a tithe
]A Kay Daumit
I.Preparation __
Sold at all
Gkmuit & Stores
LHt/UU
"Mr. President"
Tells All
m
Within only 2 weeks of the
iblication of “Mr. President
l the United States, April
eader’s Digest brings you a
L-page condensation from this
aprecedented book by Willi
illman. Here is the very inf-
late story of Harry S. 1 r ■
ian - most of it gleaned
•om his diaries, private papers
ad personal correspondence
ime of it written es P ecli * lly
,r this book. Here are given
is personal °P ini °
ad peace, on Russda, ou
brea, on atomic energy,
le absorbing condensation in
prll Reader’s
>py early. Only all
ewsagents and bookstall*.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WEST DOING WELL.
Against the persistent wailing
to the contrary, “Manchester
Guardian,” for one, holds it to
be “abundantly clear that in
broad terms the Atlantic Treaty
is working out astonishingly well
in Europe.”
“True,” it comments, “there
are any number of particular
troubles and difficulties, but on
the fundamentals American,
British and Continental policies
are in step and proving success-
ful.
“Under Marshal aid and the
Mutual Security programme
European economies have been
saved from ruin, although they
are very far from shaking off
their anxieties, and under
General Eisenhower they have
begun to build a common de-
fence. They are moving towards
a position in which they can
with some safety ‘live and let
live’ with the Russians.”
The total picture of the West
usually presented is anything but
rosy. It is, in fact, black. But
on it a New York “Herald
Tribune” writer comments just
as reassuringly;
“It would appear [from the
gloomier representations] that
the West was not only failing to
rearm but that it was also run-
ning into bankruptcy. It would
be bad enough, one might say,
to be armed though bankrupt,
but to be unarmed and bankrupt
as well would really be too
much.
“The total picture is, however,
quite false. Essentially it is
altogether false. The true pic-
ture is that American rearma-
ment is succeeding and that the
stupendous industrial trans-
formation which this requires is
being accomplished with the in-
flation [in the U.S.] under
c0ntr01.....
“It would be a serious matter
if the Kremlin allowed itself to
believe what its dogma makes
it want to believe —that we
[United States] are on the verge
of bankruptcy by inflation. We
are not on the verge of bank-
ruptcy by inflation. Since last
winter, when we brought to an
end the automatic increase of
bank-deposit money, we have
been in control of the forces that
were threatening the great in-
flation.
“What is more, there is now at
last genuine reason to hope that
in Britain and in the sterling
area, particularly in the United
Kingdom, Australia, India and
Pakistan, a change of policy and
of method has been decided
upon which will bring the infla-
tion under control [i.e., the
policy now being implemented
by the Churchill Government in
Britain and the Menzies Gov-
ernment in Australia]. The
coming months will show
whether this hope is justified. If
it is, then it is not an idle fantasy
to look forward to a time, which
is not too far off, when our
society will be in fact —despite
the anguish of the planners —at
once armed and yet solvent.”
Hong Kong Threat.
“This,” London “Times’s”
Hong Kong correspondent has
commented on the trade
difficulties increasingly worrying
them there, “is the latest, and
perhaps most serious, develop-
ment in Japanese competition.”
The “Times” has referred
editorially to the same com-
petition (with an addition) in
stating that “dislocation of trade
and a revival of Japanese com-
petition, with American money
behind it, has caused consider-
able unemployment” in Hong
Kong.
The Hong Kong correspon-
dent of Edinburgh “Scotsman”
has put the trouble down to
the U.S. embargo and the sharp
curtailment of Chinese Com-
munist spending on imports from
or via the British holding.
Local men, he reported, had
been retrenching in anticipa-
tion of dark days ahead:
“In Hong Kong today one
seldom hears the easy assurances
of a year ago that China could
not possibly get along without
Hong Kong.”
Warehouses, he added, are full
of goods bought for sale to
China, with shipments still arriv-
ing and being sold for as much
as 20 per cent, below cost. “Less
than a year ago similar ship-
ments were bringing profits as
high as 100 per cent.”
A London “Observer” cor-
respondent, also reporting from
Hong Kong, quotes Chinese
traders there as giving the
Colony another five or six years.
One quoted argument for giving
it what is represented as an
optimistic lease of life is that
the Communists know Hong
Kong will fall into their hands
eventually, so why should they
risk international repercussions
now in taking by force a place
New York “Herald Tribune.”
ANGLES ON AN ANGEL.
that still serves a useful purpose
under British control?
For the present, though, there
is little change (on the surface)
in Hong Kong:
“Its European community and
many of its Chinese still live in
a manner that has become a dim
memory in Britain. Chinese ser-
vants remain the best in the
world, and so does Chinese food.
Law and order are preserved by
an efficient police force, and
taxes are among the lowest any-
where—very few residents pay
more than 5 per cent, of their
income to the Government. And,
as before, a distinguished
Chinese, although knighted by
the King, still cannot join the
Hong Kong Club, and is not
likely to be asked into the club
as a visitor.”
For all that, Chinese Com-
munist propaganda against Hong
Kong has lately been growing in-
creasingly virulent, the violent
vituperation broadcast from
Peking leading London “Econo-
mist” to conclude that “the
period of virtual immunity from
officially-sponsored hostile agita-
tion in China that Hong Kong
has so far enjoyed now appears
to be over.”
London “Times” discounts the
Peking threats somewhat in
declaring; “These threats are
not taken too seriously in Hong
Kong, if only because no one
there believes that Peking would
risk touching off a major war by
open attack; it is thought that
they are intended to serve as a
reminder that Britain has a
heavy stake in maintaining an
unprovocative policy towards
China.”
Maybe so; or maybe wishful
thinking in fine with Britain’s
official policy towards Com-
munist China. “New York
Times,” on the other hand, re-
flects the official U.S. convic-
tion:
“Hong Kong always was
a target in the Communist book
and it still is.”
Beveridge Revolution.
Lord Beveridge, “architect” of
the “Beveridge revolution” lead-
ing to Britain’s Welfare State,
seems to have had some nos-
talgic second-thoughts on it all.
“In Britain today,” he now
says, “it is not possible for any-
one, however hard and well he
works, to enjoy the kind of in-
come, or to make the savings for
old-age, that were common and
easy when he was a young man.
“It is not possible for anyone
now to enjoy great wealth, nor to
pass it on to his children. To
keep up the way of life to which
I have become used I have to
go on working for money long
after the usual age for retire-
ment. But I should want to go
on working anyhow, so I do not
mind enormously.
“I am not sure, indeed, that
even with these present earnings
to help, the savings that I made
as a young man will hold out as
long as I live. I can only hope
that I shall not live too long.”
Dragnet Digest.
Comparative Admiral s. —•
London “Daily Mail” correspon-
dent (of course sons malice);
“Though the size of the Royal
Navy has decreased, the effici-
ency of its officers has corres-
pondingly increased. For this
reason N.A.T.O. naval circles
often maintain that a British
commander can do the job of an
American rear-admiral.”
Enviable Jap Art. —In a
“World Review” article, poet
Edmund Blunden, who spent
many pre-war years in Japan,
takes a wistful glance at Japan
today: “Life in Japan even for
the strenuous and resourceful
types does not offer so many
ways of diversion as life in the
West; even now, too, the art of
sitting still is observable every-
where.”
Camerons Without Kilts. —
The military correspondent of
“Manchester Guardian” puts up
what he calls a “crude test” of
the military side of the “Pleven
Plan” (for a conglomerate army
in Europe): “Would the
Cameron Highlanders go
happily into the European
Army if Britain were
to join? Ask a Cameron, and
except for the inborn caution
of Inverness he will probably be
quite willing. But mention that
he might lose his kilt and
balmoral through the change
and he will be ready to massacre
the European Army and chase
everyone connected with it to
hell. Quite rightly, too.”
It Still Never Sets. —“New
York Times,” on the new
“Elizabethan era”; “Elizabeth
will be Queen of Canada, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, South
Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon and
of many colonies. Even today
the sun never sets on the empire
over which the British sovereign
holds nominal sway.”
A Bet on Egypt • —Made
(editorially) by Loudon “Daily
Mail”: “Mr. Acheson said the
ferment in Egypt arose from the
ideas of liberty, justice and in-
dependence expressed in the
French and American revolu-
tions. But the Russians say it
shows ‘the triumph of creative
Marxism.’ Our money is on the
Russian theory.”
Take Your Pick. —“New York
Times”: “European unity is no
longer an idle dream.” London
Times”: “If Europe were really
on the point of federating, as is
sometimes alleged, there would
be no other topic of conversa-
tion. A revolution of this
nature, which would mean the
end of proud and ancient States,
would surely require at least
some of the missionary effort
which was required to achieve
unification in Germany and Italy
in the nineteenth century or the
United States in the eighteenth.
So far it has been the preserve
of a few enthusiasts and
specialists.”
Nor Women’s Paradise
The fantasy of Russia as a
“workers’ paradise” no longer
deludes even Corns. Another—
that it’s a “paradise for women”
—is debunked by an Edinburgh
“Scotsman” correspondent:
“Theoretically, Soviet women
have unlimited opportunities, but
in practice the higher Govern-
ment of the U.S.S.R. could not
be more overwhelmingly
masculine.”
Korea Still a Long Job. —
Arguing that there can be no
question of withdrawing U.N.O.
troops from Korea until the
South Koreans are in a position
to defend their own interests,
with clear international
guarantees of support, London
“Economist” adds: “The
alternative would be to reach
a political settlement in which
their position in a united Korea
was assured —the final objective
to which the United Nations is
still committed. But either
course implies a considerable
interval between the moment of
armistice and the withdrawal of
U.N. troops.”
Britain’s “No” No Good. —
Britain has given its final
flat “No” to joining European
federation; but, comments a
London “Times” writer, “How-
ever powerful the arguments
against a federal scheme for
Western Europe, however con-
vinced one may be that the word
‘federation’ has come to signify
Utopian hopes far beyond its
powers to fulfil, however
muddled and inadequate the ex-
planations offered by its Euro-
pean advocates, however irri-
tated one may be by the
attempts to arrive at it by
roundabout means, the debate
has now gone too far for it to
be closed by a British negative.”


CUAKD
O'
PROTECTA y •%.
Sttnl-Sitt Rttji
Till _
Suitable for every tyjie of busines* *» recorda
alt Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE;, ADELAIDE
AND PERTH
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Ik Divorce.
TO ERNEST RUSSELL BOAHDMAN late
of W agga. —TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY JUNE BOARDMAN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4634 of 1951
on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Sixth
day of June 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
FRED A. & E. S. NEWNHAM, Solicitors,
of 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
fN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO ANDREW WINSOR formerly of Manly
Brisbane in the State of Queensland whose
present whereabouts are unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ADELINE MAR-
JORIE WINSOR has commenced an
action against you for dissolution of mar-
riage No. 249 of 1952 on the grounds of
your desertion without just cause for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend this action you may enter an
appearance in the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane
within thirty days from the publication
of this notice You may obtain without
charge a copy of the Writ of Summons
and Petition from LEONARD POWER &
POWER, Solicitors, Ascot Chambers,
Queen Street, Brisbane. —J. J. HERLIHY,
Third Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— -Ik Divorce.
TO JOYCE GALLAGHER (formerly
Jenkins) late of Fairfield N.S.W.—TAKE
NOTICE that ARTHUR RICHMOND GAL-
LAGHER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 8 of 1952 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 10th June 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition free of
charge from MESSIEURS HERON ROB-
ERTSON PARKHILL ROFE & MOFFITT,
Solicitors, of 12 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT RUBRIC
SCHOOL, situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
BRANDAUERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. BrandauerS Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
CINZANO
SWEETandDRY
mm
SUNDRY SHOWS
The Mark of Quality.
When a fiowerpiece can speak
up for itself so boldly as does
“Indian Rug” at Sydney Gros-
venor Galleries in a company
that includes Gruner, Streeton
and Tom Roberts it says some-
thing very pleasant for the art
of Queenslander Vida Lahey;
not necessarily that this artist
ranks equal with the others, but
at least that the watercolor has
a clear and unmistakable
quality that can take its place
in high company without any
apology. All in golds and reds
with various kinds of daisies and
a noble orange, set against the
bright kindred colors of the rug,
it is indeed a very pleasant
painting; like a piece of Mexi-
can sun-worshipping, light and
bright for the breakfast-room,
the beach cottage or an airy
modern flat.
Three paintings by Lance
Solomon have the same stamp
of enduring quality: an early
landscape, firm, meticulous,
rather like a Howard Ashton or
a Muir Auld; and the softer,
more subtle lyricism of two more
recent pieces, one of the bush
and one of the sea.
Norman Lindsay is repre-
sented by a nude in sunlight, a
good example of one of his most
attractive styles, and there is a
soft, misty Lloyd Rees from an
early period, perhaps a little
over-romanticised, but charming
by contrast with the harshness
of his later landscape. A Lam-
bert landscape, which looks as
if it had been dashed off in a
hurry, is interesting for its
smouldering earth-colors, like a
warmer version of Drysdale.
Woodward Smith’s “Gas-tanks
and Cloud” is a nice impression
of earth and space, painted so
thinly that it looks more like a
watercolor than an oil.
The Gruner is “Werribee
Gorge,” in his thin later manner,
very like the country, but .with-
out the romantic energy and
poetry of bis morning-light
period. The Streeton is a Harbor
panel, with more feeling in its
pale light than in some of his
facile blues. Hilder, Blamire
Young, Heysen, Walter Withers
and others are represented by
minor pieces.
"Twelfth Night."
Gwen Harrison’s smooth and
courtly production and Brian
Barnes’s gracefully mercurial
clown do most to transport the
audience from its seats to
Illyria in the Sydney Metro-
politan Theatre’s current presen-
tation of “Twelfth Night.” Miss
Harrison’s production is so
nicely paced and put together,
and her scene - changes so
apparently effortless that the
whole piece seems to glide
through the evening like a light,
passing fancy.
The only thing for which one
might fault Barnes’s Feste was
that his speech, in the main crisp
and sharp, occasionally blurred
into unintelligibility in his
pursuit of speed. For most of
the evening, however, he dis-
played a remarkably graceful
agility—verbally, physically and,
one felt, mentally.
Fernande Glynn’s Olivia is a
dark-haired, grey-eyed creature
who seems to speak from her
heart; she grieves beautifully
but overmuch for the purposes
of comedy, even though she says
“Cesario I love thee,” with
such warmth that one felt
Sebastian was on the way to
paradise.
Beverley Harte’s Viola, very
much alive though she was, also
had a persistent seriousness not
altogether in accord with the
Illyrian spirit, while Sebastian,
when he turned up, wasn’t
anywhere near as vitally alive
as his sister, a situation that
rather spoiled the balance of
things. There was a polished
and courtly dignity about John
Cooper’s Orsino, even though
hints of Basil Rathbone aroused
the suspicion that he was going
to spring something sinister at
any tick of the clock.
Although Harry Langworthy
made a fine and foolish Sir
Andrew, Ken Warren’s Sir Toby
never looked like the man to
milk him; likewise Noella
Masson’s Maria, prettily busy
though she was, never looked
sharp enough to trim Malvolio,
played with a good pruning of a
lot of the customary comical
nonsense, by John Pooley.
"Black Chiffon."
In “Black Chiffon” (current
at the Independent Theatre,
North Sydney), playwright
Lesley Storm concerns herself
with the eruption of some sub-
merged psychological forces in
a well-off, middle-class London
family. A strong and enduring
antipathy between father and
son has thrown the latter much
closer to his mother; when he
is about to marry, his mother, on
the surface very pleased and
practical about the arrangement,
takes a subconscious header
which manifests itself in her
stealing a black chiffon night-
gown from a city store.
She is apprehended and
charged, and is due to come up
for trial on the day before her
son’s wedding, and, despite a
hanging judge, it looks fairly
likely that a strong defence con-
sisting of a competent counsel
and psychiatrist will get her off
on a plea of momentary aberra-
tion caused by the marriage of
a son with whom she has been
particularly close all her life.
Then it begins to look as
though the association between
mother and son might, in court
and in the newspapers, appear
to be a little more than normal —
BOROVANSKY BALLET.
To wind up its season at Sydney Empire the Borovansky Ballet has run through a short season
of “Coppelia,” “L'Amour Ridicule" and Paul Grinwis’s “Eternal Lovers,” followed by “Les
Sylphides,” “The Black Swan” and “La Boutique Fantasque.” Unk White’s report above
concerns the night he caught the company in “Petrouchka," “Swan Lake” and “Beau Danube.”
a kind of (Edipus complex in
reverse —and, however false that
may be, the mother is then faced
with the problem of deciding
whether her son’s interests are
best served by her pleading
guilty and thus taking the rap
with the minimum publicity, or
by being defended and acquitted
but with the risk of a few juicy
items in the Press. She does
the noble thing and goes up for
three months.
The play runs perilously close
to the old moustache-and-
mortgage melodrama, but, like
many similar, it’s so neatly done
up with its psychiatric season-
ing and up -to - the - minute
touches that you’d never know.
Winifred Hindle’s production,
despite its tone of smooth pro-
fessional competence, is a little
too warm and cosy—some of the
suffering and mental torment
could have been burned a little
deeper on to the picture of
placid, comfortable family life.
There are more skill and
polish than feeling in Doris
Fitton’s performance as the
mother, unless you take it as a
rendering of the English upper-
lip that allegedly conceals so
much. Either way, however, it’s
a good performance, and, any-
way, the beautifully-modulated
clarity of Miss Fitton’s voice
can move mountains of objec-
tion.
Edward Howell appears to
toss off the role of the father
with his usual practised natural-
ness —Howell, who can always
be relied upon for a sound per-
formance, often gives the impres-
sion that he never extends him-
self to the limit of his talents;
when he does, as he hinted in
“Misalliance” and “Anna
Lucasta,” it should be one for
the books.
In an admirable and unassum-
ing way, Barbara Brunton, as
the married daughter of the
family, puts her emotions across
to the audience more clearly and
feelingly than anyone ; and Allan
Trevor takes on an intelligently
sympathetic bedside manner as
the doctor. Henry Heyderaan
and Joan Landor, as the couple
whose approaching marriage
precipitates all the bother, seem
a little out of their depths, which,
accidental or otherwise, is the
way they probably would be
under the circumstances.
"Falstaff."
For the first of the Sydney
Orchestra’s Subscription concerts
of the season Eugene Goossens
presented Elgar’s Symphonic
Study “Falstaff.” In this Elgar
set himself the invidious task of
evaluating the fat knight’s
character and at the same time
painting in some episodes. This
is the Falstaff not of the
“Merry Wives of Windsor,” the
theme of which Verdi made such
brilliant use when he was 80
years old, but of the historical
plays.
In general it suits Elgar’s
serious vein—he lacked the
requisite nimbleness and wit to
write a score to sort with the
discomfited victim of Mistress
Page and Mistress Ford. Little
of Falstaff is evoked, but there
is some graceful writing, as in
the “dream” interlude, and some
fine contrapuntal work in the
opening section.
The orchestra handled the
overlong, tedious piece with
great verve, with outstanding
work by the ’cellos and lower
woodwinds. Haydn’s Symphony
in E Flat Major (“The
Philosopher”), an early work
scored for strings only with the
unusual addition of two English
and two French horns, courtly,
elegant, demonstrating even at
that stage in his career his
masterly use of all instruments,
flowed in a serene stream.
Gieseking was the soloist in
the Brahms Concerto No. 1. For
this gigantic work —no music
extant has greater structural
strength—the soloist must have
needed to call upon all his great
technical skill and the most pro-
found musical insight. It was a
memorable performance, a tor-
rent of fiercely emotional playing
in the Maestoso and in the
Rondo, and in the centre of the
storm reflectiveness and repose-
fulness.
The main work of Gieseking’s
two Brisbane programmes, the
big Beethoven Sonata Op. 110,
the piano contemporary of the
Ninth Symphony, seemed in per-
formance like a masterpiece
being forged afresh in the
pianist’s brain as he played. His
musical creed involves the
belief that if music has under-
gone an intense process of
creation, its interpretation makes
equally heavy demands on the
performer. Some of the music
he plays is made to seem larger
than it really is. Mendelssohn’s
“Rondo Capriccioso” became
a tone-poem instead of a salon
piece, an 18th-century prelude to
the half-lights of the Debussy
and Ravel that were to follow.
♦ * * *
In its 137th successive produc-
tion Mosman Musical Society,
directed by Len Gattery, made
Sigmund Romberg’s “New
Moon” shine quite brightly.
Colorful settings, variety, chorus
and particularly clear diction set
off the popular music very
well. The rather long-winded
business about the conversion of
socialites of the aristocratic
courts of France to Socialists in
a lonely French outpost was
managed smoothly enough with
the aid of Keith Goddard’s
polished villain and versatile
humor from a well-matched
team. Rhondda Baker as
Marianne again took the lead,
adding further to her past suc-
cesses, while equally outstanding
were the acting and humor of
Betty Parsons, Gaynor Mitchell
and Robert Hatherley.


SUIi DUTIES
(BUST VIST
UIIMOB
mi umi ... stde» t iiirisi
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
Slates Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UT7
Your Estate will be Safer
in these Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not of one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in
333 Collins
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Victoria)
St., Melbourne: 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
The WILD CAT CILUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept. Income. Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
1944.. 6,884,448 3,633,893 568,572'
Written off premises, £10,000 2,668,032
To staff fund, £3,950
1945.. 7.208,804 3,822,276 626,481"
Written off fixed assets, £12,270 ■ 2,743,727
To staff fund, £4,050
1946.. 7,886,078 4,051,405 839,673"
Written off fixed assets, £96,654 • 2,698,346
Exchange adjustment, £200,000
1947.. 8,533,867 4,042,303 962,341
Written off fittings, £24,218
1948.. 9,300,665 4,448,507 1,065,303"
Written off assets, £40,000 . . ■ 3,646,855
Exchange adjustment, £100,000..
1949.. 10,211,276 4,549,727 1,131,214 |
Written off assets, £23,104 .. f „
Exchange adjustment, £10,914 .. f
To contingencies reserve, £750,000 I
1950.. 11,012,057 4,753,158 1,249,217)
Written off assets, £17,292 .. 1 4,981,999
Exchange adjustment, £10,391 ..I
1951.. 12,297,074 4,929,399 1,553,532)
Written off assets, £25,345 .. )■ 5,763,371
Exchange adjustment, £25,427.. J
One of the popular anti-inflation slogans
of today is “save for security.” Real
savings are that part of an individual’s
current income which, by thrift, he sets
aside for future enjoyment and against
misfortune. To these ends there is no
better medium than a contract with a
sound, regular-bonus-paying life office.
Not only does it provide a full measure
of capital protection long before it is
ever paid for, but it binds the assured to
a period of regular savings according to
a definite plan suited to his needs. More-
over, regular payment of premiums helps
to ease inflationary pressures by reducing
immediate spending-power, while the
accumulated premiums are invested by
the office concerned in a wide range of
Government, industrial and other securi-
ties, thus contributing to economic growth
and development and to the creation of
employment. Meanwhile the capital value
of the policy, or contract, keeps on in-
creasing by annual bonus additions in
both good times and bad.
Latest accounts of the 82-year-old
National, second in stature among Aus-
tralia’s five big mutual life offices, pro-
vides fresh evidence of continued pro-
gress. A record amount of new business
(£40,635,083, up £9,121,678) was put on
the books. It consisted of ordinary and
group assurances —no industrial business
is done —written in all countries of the
British Commonwealth except Canada,
In Australia, where most of the policies
are issued, over 40 p.c. of last term’s new
contracts were connected with superan-
nuation and other provident plans. Infla-
tion, growth of population and home-
purchase coupled with life assurance
helped the figures along, too.
Premiums (old and new) turned in
£9,389,283 (up £1,082,130) and invest-
ments £2,907,791 (up £202,887), making
total income £12,297,074 (up £1,285,017).
Claims were well within actuarial expec-
tation, and a tight hold was kept on con-
trollable outgoings. Certainly total exes,
took 12.9 p.c, of total net income (less
single premiums) as against 11.6 p.c. for
the previous year; but that was due to
the steep rise in award wage-rates, etc.
Of the £5,814,143 of the year’s income
that remained, £25,345 was used to write
down the book-value of assets, £25,427
was appropriated for exchange adjust-
ment and £5,763,371 was added to the
life assurance fund, raising it to
£82,825,195, which is well in excess of
actuarial liabilities under policies. In
addition there are contingency and other
reserves totalling £3,284,479 which, to-
gether with the returns therefrom, also
belong to policyholders, there being no
shareholders.
The long drift in the net rate of interest
earned was arrested in 1948, when the net
effective rate (after deducting taxes) on
the mean assurance fund was £3 12s. Id.
p.c. The figure was £3 14s. Id. p.c. last
term, up 3d. p.c. In figuring its liabilities
under policies the co. assumes that the
fund will turn in only 2\ p.c. net. The
margin between these two rates is wider
than usually considered necessary for
maintenance of reversionary bonus rates.
These rates were maintained at the
same satisfactory levels as for the four
preceding years, ranging, on whole-life
policies, from 30s. p.c. on contracts five
years in force to 455. p.c. on those 30
years old or more. Only portion of last
year’s surplus (excess of assurance fund
over liabilities under policies) was thus
distributed. The next triennial valuation
will be made at Sept. 30, 1952.
Interesting changes have occurred in the
investment portfolio:
, 1950 r 1951
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. 2,538,529 3.1 2,735,038 3.1
Govt. securities* 47,491,239 57.6 45,412,916 51.3
Debentures .. 1,832,660 2.2 2,372,800 2.7
Mortgages .. 16,582,440 20.1 23.520,175 26.6
Deposits building
society . . 2,854,050 3.5 2,074,000 2.3
Loans on policies 4,123,723 5.0 4,403,635 6.0
Shares other cos. 3,691,425 4.5 4,550,822 5.1
Other assets .. 3,355,136 4.0 3,476,757 3.9
Total assets .. 82,469,152 100.0 88,582,143 100.0
Liabilitiest .. 2,077,558 2,388,700
Net assets . . 80,391,594 86,193,443
* Includes local-govt.-body loans,
t Excluding liabilities under policies.
Government securities (down £2,078,323
last term) now account for 51.3 p.c. of
total assets as against 67.8 p.c. in 1948.
Over the same period mortgages (up
£6,937,735 last term) have grown from
12.2 p.c. to 26.6 p.c. of the total, and
shares in other cos. (up £859,397) from
2.8 p.c. to 5.1 p.c. The year’s increase
of £279,912 in loans on policies is
indicative of changing economic condi-
tions. Overall the aim is to strengthen
interest earnings, which is the main source
of bonuses to policyholders.
R. H. Gordon & Cos., Ltd. (Sydney)
. To Re- Re-
Dcc., Profit. Dividends, serves. serves,
1942.. 19,045 10 p.c. = 19,400 200,389
To staff fund, £SOO .. ~ 199,889
From tax reserve, £3247.. .. 205’136
1943. .16,410 13§ p.c. = 19,400 7 IQQ ...
To staff fund. £SOO .. J ~ 199,646
From tax reserve, £1297 .. .. 200,943
1944. . 18,165 13J p.c. = 19,400 7 _ lqq 9na
To staff fund, £SOO ..j 199,208
From tax reserve, £340 .. .. 199,548
1945.. 21,335 15 p.c. = 21,825 7 , qa
To staff fund, £750 . ~ 198,308
1946.. 33,114 18J p.c. = 26,675 7 *4OO 903 747
To staff fund, £IOOO .. J 5 > 439 203 ’ 747
1947.. 33,430 18J p.c. = 26,675 7 k ,no
To staff fund, £IOOO ~f 5 ’ 755 209,502
1948.. 37,300 20 p.c. = 29,100 7 „„„ 902
To staff fund, £ISOO ..| 6 > 700 216,202
1949.. 34,672 20 p.c. = 29,100 7 4079 990974
To staff fund. £ISOO ..] 4 > 072 220.274
1950.. 43,226 20 p.c. = 29,100 7 , 309400
To staff fund, £2OOO .. | U. 126 232,400
Asset revaluation reserve, £47,250.. 279,650
Bonus share issue, £47,250 .. 232,400
1951.. 36,918 16fp.c.= 32,313 7 2QQ „„
To staff fund, £2OOO ..j 2005 235,005
Gordon’s, a money-spinner in its heyday,
is still a good profit-earner and dividend-
payer, with strong reserves, a sound
financial structure and a cautious and
experienced management. Since the
public became interested in 1909, the co.
has issued £307,450 of bonus-scrip and re-
turned £223,333 of its capital—which is
more than was put up in cash. The richest
period was the eight years to 1926,
when £222,400 of the bonus-scrip was
scattered. Divs. averaged 18,7 p.c. for
the 18 years to 1930, 12.6 for the next
decade, and 16.3 p.c, for the 11 years to
the end of 1951. The latest gift was a
one-for-three issue early in the last term.
Paid capital now stands at £194,250 in
f.-p. 15s. shares.
Today the bulk of the co.’s trade—the
business grew up in the cash-order field,
where it now enjoys a hand-picked con-
nection —is in furniture, furnishing-
drapery, crockery and other household
equipment. And much of it is done on
a t.-p. basis. As already shown, benefits
to shareholders became more widely
spaced after the mid-1920’5.
Now that the inflationary boom which
followed World War II and rearmament
has resulted in a balance-of-payments
crisis in the sterling area and elsewhere,
the declared intention of Governments is
to live within current incomes so far as
international trade is concerned, and to
check the march of inflation at home.
Because of these and other things, the
emphasis in purchase of investments has
shifted from possible capital gains
through new share-issues on favorable
terms, or the handing-out of bonus-scrip,
to the immediate yield obtainable from
current or anticipated dividends. At 50s.
(70s. in April, 1951) Gordon’s f.-p. 15s.
shares return 5 p.c. on a 16| p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is visibly
335. Id.
Despite the growth of buyer-resistance
toward the close of accounts, and its
effect upon the trade generally, the board
reports “substantially” increased sales of
furniture and furnishings for the year
as a whole. Government-regulation and
credit-restriction hampered activity in the
cash-order section, and a bit more was
chiselled off gross margins by official
edict. The real villain of the piece was
recurrent lifts in wage and other costs,
which gobbled all gains from the bigger
trading and £6308 besides. The £36,918
of profit was 19 p.c. on capital as it now
stands as against 29.7, 23.8, 25.6 and 22.9
p.c. back to 1947, Although the div. was
lowered from 20 p.c. to 16f p.c,, the
lower rate was equal to 22 p.c. on capital
as it stood before the last issue of gift-
scrip.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £145,500 £145,600 £145.500 £194,250
Sundry cred.* 63,957 68,449 84,605 110,620
Overdraft . . 13,017 10,279
Staff fund .. 10,399 11,783 15,174 16,666
Final div. .. 16,975 16,975 16,975 16,188
Property and
plant, etc... 94,494 94,808 141,805 142,231
Stock . . 67,388 89,885 104,824 145,986
253 ’ 31 » m ’ lß3
Shares, deben-
tures, etc... 45,452 43,922 28,724 3,505
Mortgages .. 2,188
Government se-
curities . . 74,591 50,111 12,300
Cash. etc. .. 2,085 160 5,942 110
♦ Including taxation.
Hire agreements and book-debts (up
£37,873) appear less an unstated “pro-
vision.” Stocks (up £41,162) are in at
cost or market-value, whichever is the
lower. To meet the year’s outlay the
co. went to its bankers for £10,279, in-
creased the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., by £26,021, and drew upon
liquids for £26,051.
Import restrictions have removed much
of the immediate threat from overseas
competition so far as furnishing-drapery,
carpets and chinaware are concerned.
Credit restrictions promise to limit the
growth of turnover, and costs are still on
the up-grade. Net results will largely
depend upon the relative levels of costs
and selling-prices, which are largely
controlled.
Olympic Cables, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. Total. serves, serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1947*. 1ff,463 63 12,445 5,018 5,018
From tax reserve, £6600 .. . . 11,618
1948.. 43,971 2,437 13 24,890 16,650 28,262
Share premiums, £110,287 .. .. 138,549
1949.. 70,500 5,000 14 34,539 30,961 169,510
Share premiums, £36,762 .. .. 206,272
Deferred tax, £II,OOO .. .. .. 195,272
1950.. 84,698 5,000 14 48,628 36,070 231,342
Reserves capitalised, £147,049 .. 84,293
1951. .115,534 8,542 14 64,689 42,303 126,596
* Six months.
It has been a quick and profitable
development of which the management
has good reason to feel proud. Share-
holders have fared well, too ; a high rate
of dividend has been sweetened with
recurrent new share-issues, including a
distribution of bonus-scrip. The business,
which started (in 1939) as a department
of the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Cos.,
was passed to the present co., which paid
£191,457 in its own f.-p. ss. ords. for net
assets, at the end of 1946. In a reorganisa-
tion of its capital account, the Tyre co.
handed this scrip to those on its own
ord. register. To help finance the rapid
growth of business since, the Cable co.’s
shareholders put up £200,000 of 5 p.c.
pref. money and £544,524 of ord. capital,
which brought with it £147,049 of share
premiums. The premiums were capital-
ised by a one-for-two bonus-share issue
early last term. At the same time 588,196
new ss. ords. were put out at par, also
one for two, and 21,325 ss. employee
shares were issued. Meanwhile, the div.
climbed from 6i p.c. for the first half-
year to 13 p.c. for next 12 months and
then to 14 p.c. for the three years to the
close of last accounts.
All this raised paid capital at June 30
last to £666,380 in 100,000 £1 A and a
like number of B prefs., both 5 p.c.
cumulative, 1,844,196 ss. ords. and 21,325
ss. employee shares. The total on the
register has advanced since to £896,904
by a par issue of 922,098 ss. ords., one
for two, in Nov. last. On capital as it
now stands the pref. divs. and 14 p.c. to
the ords. will call for £BOOO-odd less
profit than was shown last term.
One of the two leading manufacturers
of its kind in the Commonwealth, the
co.’s output of cables, wires and flexibles
has grown from a few sizes for house-
wiring purposes at the start to some 3000
types, which now range from enamel-
insulated winding-wire to the big and
heavily-insulated trailing cables used in
opencut mining. Demand, which has run
ahead of output to date, comes from all
sections of trade and industry, as well as
from the P.M.G.’s department, electric-
supply authorities, the armed services and
other public bodies. Principal raw
materials used are copper, lead, rubber
and textile fabrics. Copper, now inter-
nationally controlled, is still in short
supply. However, Australia’s import
quota for the first quarter of 1952 was
lifted slightly to 12,500 metric tons, which
should be sufficient for normal purposes,
Olympic’s chairman says.
Margins were narrower last term, but
profits responded to a “considerable
increase in turnover. After making “all
provisions deemed necessary,” including
£37,345 (up £5562) for depreciation, a
liberal £124,000 (up £58,000) for taxation,
and sending £20,000 to the stock reserve
(now £85,000), the leap in net earnings
was £30,836. The £115,534 of profit
shown covered the pref. divs. and 23.1
p.c. on average ord. capital, as against
22.9, 26.5 and 21.7 p.c. back to 1948.
So the 14 p.c. distribution remained a
comfortable matter.
To carry an extra £672,542 of stocks
and £233,872 of book-debts, as well as
add £53,504 net to fixed assets, share-
holders put up £105,332 of fresh capital,
the overdraft was increased by £564,445
and creditors, etc., by £175,946:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital. . £291,549 £383,365 £414,000 £666,380
Overdraft . . 257,306 303,209 370,028 934,463
Creditors, etc. 322.602 221,082 203,596 379.542
Tax provision 31,600 65,221 81,000 139,31 4
Final divs. . . 14,244 22,603 26,050 39,721
Freeholds . . 84,537 111,397 110,158 114,681
Plant . . 122,602 175,542 201,104 250,085
Stocks . . 639,388 693,295 820.473 1,493,015
Debtors . . 98,636 185,502 192,976 426,848
Cash & shares 310 305 1,805 1,447
The more-or-less liquid surplus was
£428,204 (up £94,126). Still, excluding the
tax provision, outsiders had 335. in the
business for every pound belonging to
shareholders when the books closed;
hence the new share-issue already
referred to.
The outlook for the business is as
encouraging as anything of the kind can
be in these uncertain times. The reduced
tempo in construction work, public and
private, may retard the immediate rate
of expansion ; but trading results for the
first-half of the current term were “satis-
factory,” and an interim 6% p.c. (same as
previous year) has gone out to the ords.
At 14s. 3d. the ords. return 4.9 p.c.
on a 14 p.c. div. basis. The A and B
prefs. at 21s. and 20s. yield 4.7 p.c. and
5 p.c. respectively. Including the new


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
_ Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OlSf $
osuixrvAtt
PH-mU x
tPS BRtS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
,AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrle, Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address;
Corrientes, Brisbane.
ROCKHAMPTON
BUILDING
Situated 300 yards from G.P.O. and Business Centre.
Land: Freehold, 1 rood, 66 by 165 feet to lane at rear.
Improvements: Reinforced concrete building, pier and beam construction
with 9in. brick work infilling, overall dimensions 66 x 120 feet. Main walls
from footings to parapets are 36 feet. Floor and ceilings are timber. There
is a gallery along rear and both sides and at least 700 iron frame chairs.
Erected in 1924 and suitable picture theatre, could easily be converted into
shop, warehouse, office premises or church.
Price £12,750 - - - For firm offer apply
F. R. S. BRUMM & CO.
Beal Estate Agents, 10 Denham Street, Rockhampton.
-INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI 3 I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
RECORDYEAR^
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
Points from 82nd Annual Report
ASSURANCE
FUND UP
NEW
BUSINESS UP
INTEREST RATE
UP
BONUSES
At 30th September, 1951, the Assurance
Fund was £82,825,195 —an Increase of
5| million pounds in one year.
61,731 new policies were issued, assuring
£40,635,083 and providing annuities of
£270,628 per annum—a record.
Average rate of interest earned’ on
Assurance Fund was £4/1/4 per cent.—
after deduction of Rates and Taxes, net
rate was £3/14/1, as compared with
£3/13/10 for the previous year.
—will be on the same liberal scale as
last year.
If pays become a member of fhis pro-
gressive, purely mutual Association, which
transacts Ordinary Department business only
(including Group and Staff Superannuation).
Funds are available for Loan on approved
security.
RESULTS FOR 82 YEARS
1869 to 1951
Amount paid ,to policyholders £106,983,486
Amount assured under policies current £250,100,237
Assurance Fund at 30th September. 1951 £82,825,195
"“NATIONAL MUTUAL
UFA ASSOCIATION eg a/SIA
ESTABLISHED
1869
I I lac la Kiel
HEAD OFFICE: 395 Collins St., Melbourne.
New South Wales: 350 George St., Sydney. Queensland:
293 Queen St., Brisbane. South Australia: King
William St., Adelaide. Western Australia: St.
George’s Terrace, Perth. Tasmania: Macquarie
St., Hobart. New Zealand: Chief Office,
Customhouse, Quay, Wellington.
issue, net tangible cover is
£lO 4s. Bd. A’s, £9 4s. Bd. B’s
and ss. lid. ords.
Bruce Pie Industries (Bris.)
To Re- Defl-
Jne., Profit. t —Dividend— N serves, cit.*
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, £5747 .. .. 5,747
Prelim, exes, and broker-
age, £10,184 .. .. 15,931
’47.. 8,305 3 p.c. = 4,690 3,615 12,316
’48..12,200 3 „ ~ 9,000 3,200 9,116
Added goodwill, etc., £3917.. 13,033
’49..24,031 5 p.c. = 18,423 5,608 7,425
’50..28,446 5 „ „ 22,500 5,946 1,479
Res.*
’51..52,388 6 „ „ 29,809 22,579 21,100
♦After deducting intangibles, £BOOO at
June 30, 1951.
It was in mid-1946 that Bruce
Pie and his friends decided to
grasp the new opportunity which
post-war conditions provided for
expansion of textile manufac-
ture, etc., in Queensland. The
present co. was formed for the
purpose. Considering the diffi-
culties that had to be overcome,
it has put up an encouraging
performance, and is now in a
sound and healthy condition for
a five-year-old, financially and
industrially. Capital has more
than doubled, the div. has
climbed from 3 p.c. for the first
year to 6 p.c. last term, when
shareholders could see the whole
of their money intact and
£21,100 besides.
The co. kicked off with
£300,000 of capital, of which
£59,073 (in scrip) was used to buy
two existing businesses—Queens-
land Textile Cos. (£50,250) and
Bruce Pie Bedding Cos. (£8823).
The balance, publicly subscribed
for cash, went mainly into erec-
tion of anew worsted-spinning
and -knitting factory at Kedron,
near Brisbane. Here plant didn’t
get into full swing till toward
the close of accounts in 1949.
Meanwhile £150,000 of fresh
capital was got in finance addi-
tions at Kedron, strengthening
the holding in the textile co. and
buy the small bedding fac-
tory of F. Heatley and Cos. at
Townsville, etc. Demand has
since continued to run well
ahead of growing output, and
to finance the continued expan-
sion and reduce the outside debt,
a further 225,000 new £1 ords.
were issued at par, one for two,
in Feb., 1951.
The next table shows how the
new capital—it lifted the total
on the share-register to £675,000
—together with surplus earnings
and an extra £81,833 from
sundry creditors, was used:
1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 450,000 450,000 675,000
Overdraft .. 73,051 120,855
Sundry creditors 58,325 64,770 146,603
Pinal divs. .. 18,423 22,500 29,809
Freeholds .. 99,539 103,854 126,858
Plant .. .. 121,094 124,198 131,832
Shares subsid... 111,142 116,142 116,142
Stocks .. .. 187,637 212,079 358,438
Debtors .. 72,637 99,305 118,351
Cash . . .. 325 1,068 20,891
Intangibles .. 13,664 11,664 8,000
The overdraft (£120,855 at the
previous balance) was wiped out,
stocks were increased by
£146,359, book-debts by £19,046,
and freeholds by £23,004 and
plant by £7634. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£321,268, excluding
shares in subsidiaries) was
£216,941. It is a healthy
position.
The co.’s knitted outer-wear
is reported to be selling freely
in all States at very competitive
prices, defence contracts have
been received for khaki pull-
overs and cotton singlets and
shirts, the bedding section—
largest thing of its kind in the
State—is developing rapidly, and
the textile subsidiary (paid capi-
tal £100,000) is earning satisfac-
tory profits. It netted 9.4 p.c. on
capital last term as against 8.3
p.c. for the previous year and
lifted its div. from 3.5 p.c. to
5 p.c.
The parent’s own turnover
exceeded the £1,000,000-mark.
The improvement in gross earn-
ings (£218,404) was £88,408, of
which exes, (£166,016) gobbled
£64,466, leaving the net result
£23,942 stronger at £52,388.
Allowance for depreciation was
£16,397 (up £4095) and taxation
£35,000 (up £22,700). The
£52,388 was 10.5 p.c. on average
capital as against 6.3 p.c. and
6.5 p.c. for the two preceding
years. A point was added to the
div., making it 6 p.c.
The board has budgeted for a
turnover of £li million for the
current term, and reports im-
proved results for the first half,
despite the flood of imports.
Nearly all the textile mill output
has been sold up to June next.
New top-dyeing equipment,
additional knitting machines and
anew garneting plant have
been installed, and seven addi-
tional bays are to be added to
the Kedron factory. Import
restrictions should strengthen the
co.’s position, but costs are still
on the up-grade, the co. hasn’t
yet had an opportunity to put
on much fat, and new capital
takes time to develop full earn-
ing-power.
Doubtful of what the less
immediate future holds, the
market prices the f.-p. pound
shares at 18s. 6d., giving a
return of 6.5 p.c, on a 6 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.4 p.c. should the rate
drop to 5 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 20s. 7d.
Sunshine Gold Development
On April 4 shareholders in
this co. (paid capital £IOO,OOO in
10s. shares) will be asked to
sanction sale of the undertaking
to Bulolo Gold Dredging on a
walk -in - walk - out basis for
£37,500 cash. The opportunity
thus presented is not likely to
recur, the board says. Bulolo
wants the plant, the water-races
in particular, not the property,
which is on the Watut River,
New Guinea. And since the co.’s
till is empty and prospects of
earning enough profit to pay even
moderate divs. are negligible,
shareholders are likely to wel-
come the opportunity to rescue
about 3s. 4d. a share out of
what has been a disappointing
venture.
Since inception of the co. in
1933 divs. have totalled some
£45,000, last being 6d. a share in
1941. At June 30, 1951, current
assets amounted to £8565 and
current liabilities to £5450. The
mine figured at £75,836, and
plant, etc., at £43,293. Bulolo’s
offer, therefore, amounts to
17s. 4d. in the £ for plant.
The board issued some opti-
mistic reports after the war, but
failed to give shareholders
enough detailed information to
enable them to form a worth-
while opinion of their own con-
cerning the commercial prospects
of the venture. The co.’s shares,
which touched 17s. in the market
about three years ago were
around 2s. 6d. last week.
After spending over £35,000
on research and investigation,
Broken Hill South has
abandoned its hunt for worth-
while silver-lead-zinc and copper
deposits in the Chillagoe district
(N.Q.). Several copper-bearing
and other ore-bodies were found,
but they were either too low-
grade or too badly faulted to
warrant development and treat-
ment on a commercial basis. In
the early days the field was
noted for the abundance and
variety of its lodes and the rich-
ness of the shoots of copper and
silver-lead ores in the shallow
ground. In 1944 the State Mines
Department said none of the
then known ore-bodies in the
area offered much prospect of
large tonnages.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Parties on board Italian liners seem to
be quite the thing at present. One has
the opportunity of seeing the interior
decorating, glamor cabins, frescoes, etc.,
and the more imaginative can fancy
themselves en route in luxury for far
climes. The National Opera Company
staged a cocktail-party on the Roma
during the week and reaped the reward of
an overwhelming attendance. Erik
Langker and helpmate received the
guests with Mrs. Carl Lorenz. Energetic
secretary Mrs. Richard Gloster brought
along attractive young daughter Suzanne,
just arrived on a holiday from Port
Moresby. Couldn’t help noting Madame
Murotta’s hat with the curly black
feathers, Mrs. Annette Jones’s voluminous
duster of pearl-pink waterwave faille,
Mrs. Darcy Jones’s distinguished blue
velvet suit and Mrs. Noel Wade’s elegant
combining of deep cream and black.
A mannequin parade provides an open
go for dressing as a rule, the spectators
wearing their smartest and most
glamorous apparellings in the hope that
the models won’t give them too severe
an inferiority complex. The company
that assembled to see the fashion parade
“An American in Paris” hit the high
spots in this respect and made a really
brave showing. Held to benefit the
N.S.W. Institute for Deaf, Dumb and
Blind Children, the parade re-created the
atmosphere of Paris in its gayer mood
with no Existentialists in sight. Gowns
were by Beril Jents, hats by Wainwright,
accessories by Norma Goodwin and
furs by Bernard Hammerman, all of
which made up a very nice picture of
glossy living. The very efficient presenta-
tion was the work of Pat Firman, who
is surely too beautiful to be so clever
as well.
Everybody’s worrying about the new
petticoat fever that has taken hold of
the town. Organdie, taffeta, leno, even
canvas are tried, but somehow the effect
never seems quite right unless one is
prepared to wear at least three stiff or
frilled petticoats. Probably the number
will increase as the season progresses, and
people vie with one another until eight
or more are the correct number. Then,
of course, there will be a change and
the crinoline will set in or the pettis
will be worn one shorter than another
so that all can be seen.
In these days of mannered acting it
was refreshing and restful to see Barbara
Brunton in “Black Chiffon” at the Inde-
pendent, playing as though the stage
were her natural element and building up
the character with an ease so completely
effortless. The Black Chiffon of the
title, by the way, refers to a nightgown,
as one might have guessed. For some
reason black chiffon has always been
the symbol of glamor and allurement
with a slight suggestion of daring, but
this play gives it another significance and
builds up an interesting social drama.
Members of the literary circle of the
English-Speaking Union were taken for
a rapid tour through the years when
J. W. Hayes, M.A., a former
Director of Education, spoke to them
on the power of the pen. Starting with
Homer, he flew over the ages, alighting
here and there to have a look at Shak-
speare, Milton, Wordsworth, Pope,
Dickens, etc., so that the whole panorama
of literary history was at least glimpsed.
Miss Dorothy Smith was in the chair
and Mrs. Harry Twigden replied in thanks
on behalf of the club. At the previous
meeting of the E.-S.U. the speakers were
E. M. Armstrong and Mrs. C. Taylor,
who were delegates to the world con-
ference in London last June and who
gave members a description of the very
interesting people they met, the dinner
with 1000 guests, and their pilgrimage
to Frogmore.
The Governor will officially open the
annual conference of the Far West
Children’s Health Scheme on Tuesday,
May 6, at 10 a.m. Apropos of this, it
is interesting to note how many ex-
patients of the Drummond Home at
Manly are met by members of the Far
West concert-party in their tours around
N.S.W. Mr. S. Coleman said that at
both Wagga and Young in the recent
southern tour ex-patients renewed
acquaintance with members of the party.
Mr. Coleman reported that the tour was
very satisfactory. Walla Walla netted
£66 at this their first concert. Batlow
raised £7O, and at Tumut 600 people
attended. Here the party was enter-
tained at morning-tea at J. B. Sharpe’s
cattle-station, Clunie.
The A.B.C. has planned a beautiful
programme for the conclusion of Lent
on Good Friday. Elgar’s “Dream of
Gerontius,” Bach’s St. Matthew Passion
and the play “Ocesar’s Friend,” a
dramatic study of Pontius Pilate, are to
be performed. The play, which will be
heard from a 8.8. C. broadcast, is by
Dermot Morrah and Campbell Dixon,
and is written as a straight drama. It
is not a Passion Play, but, according to
the producer, generates its own interest
and urgency without assuming predis-
positions of any kind on the part of the
audience.
The cap, gown and hood worn by
June Griffith, of Coogee, in the picture
is in token of her having graduated
Bachelor of Science at the new Sydney
University of Technology. She has also
the honor of being the only girl to
graduate when the recent conferring of
degrees took place. June is bending her
wits at present to research on the physical
properties of wool for C.5.1.R.0. Photo
by Hugh Spencer.
Everybody complains about the com-
mercialisation of Christmas, but no one
seems to notice how stores try to cash-
in on Leri—with not much effect, one
would gather. Very little difference is
made in the consumption of meat, and as
for actual fasting, i.e., eating less of
everything, inflation is a greater force
than the Lenten season. In the old days
people who worked hard (such as stone-
breakers and schoolteachers, as one priest
said) didn’t have to fast. Now the idea
seems to be that everyone works hard,
and people seem to think they should
eat everything nutritious they can afford
to buy while it is still within their price-
range.
The news that homework was really
illegal and that schoolteachers had always
known this and had kept quiet about it
induced feelings of resentment in many
a heart —all those years of being deceived
by those in charge of our moral training!
The standard of revolt raised by the
children at a Liverpool school last week
was quickly stricken down, however, for
it seems that teachers can’t make you
do homework, but in conjunction with
your parents they can. So it brings us
back to the plaint of childhood, “You
can’t win.”
Alec Templeton, blind musician shortly
to tour Australia under the banner of
J. C. Williamson, is reported to have a
remarkaby accurate ear for music. Born
with perfect pitch, he can, on hearing a
glass tapped by a finger, tell how many
overtones result and exactly what they
are, or on hearing a new piece of music,
regardless of its difficulty, can play it
through after only one hearing. Once
having mastered a musical work he never
forgets it and can plunge into works he
has not played for years and reproduce
them without a slip. Some people have a
photographic memory. Templeton calls
his phonographic.
From Melbourne
Lady Brookes is not at all perturbed
at facing the fact that the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital, of which she is president,
this year has a deficit of £90,000. With
her usual unbounded energy she has
gathered her committee together and
plans are now being made for an Inter-
national Exhibition of women’s activities ;
it’s to spread over six weeks in October
and November, 1953. To discuss
plans for this huge undertaking Lady
Brookes invited over 300 members of
the hospital’s auxiliaries to her home in
South Yarra. The exhibition, which will
show the work of women in other parts of
the world as well as Australia, will be held
in the Exhibition building and its lovely
grounds. Already Lady Brookes and Col.
George Sutton, chairman of the executive
planning committee, have been to Can-
berra. The Prime Minister invited a
group of overseas ambassadors and
consuls to meet Lady Brookes and Col.
Sutton. Countries represented included
Russia, China, India, Canada, New
Zealand, Ceylon, Indonesia, France and
Brazil.
The response was enthusiastic and the
representatives will at once place a re-
quest to be represented in the exhibition.
The planning committee will invite a
member of the Royal family here while
the exhibition is in progress. Lady Brookes
told those at the afternoon-tea that the
idea of the exhibition is not an original
one, for in 1907 a women’s-work exhibi-
tion had been held, but on a smaller
scale. Mrs. Arthur Wenzel, president of
auxiliaries, promised the support of all
members of the Q.V. auxiliaries. Already
they are working for a made-in-Australia
exhibition timed for later this year.
Lady Gengoult Smith helped her
mother with the hostessing, and among
those who poured tea were Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh, Mrs. M. Gilruth and Mrs. V.
Robertson Smith.
A large audience in the Union Theatre
was kept highly amused at the antics of
Alec Guiness and Stanley Holloway in
the J. Arthur Rank film “Lavender Hill
Mob,” preview of which was arranged by
the Australian Air Force Women’s
Association, of which Lady Brooks is
patroness. All proceeds were given to the
association’s Patriotic Scholarship Fund.
President of the association, Mrs. E. C.
Wackett, with Air Vice-Marshal Wackett,
received the official guests, among whom
were the newly-appointed Chief of Air
Staff, Air-Marshal Hardman, and Mrs
Hardman ; Vice-Chancellor of the Univer-
sity, Prof. Paton, and his wife; and Air
Vice-Marshal E. Hewitt and Mrs. Hewitt,
who were accompanied by their three
daughters, Barbara, Jennifer and Gillian.
Mrs. Charles Probert brought along
samples of her coconut-ice and fudge,
which were sold on the stall conducted
in the foyer by Mrs. George Aria and
Mrs. E. R. Sinclair. Others noted in the
audience were Air-Marshal R. Williams
and Mrs, Williams, Mrs. Val Hancock,
Mrs. Harcourt Smith and Mrs. Vernon
Spence.
This portrait is of Mrs. Frank Tait
when, as Viola Wilson, she appeared as
Lili Veit in “Lilac Time.” Now retired
from stage life—for she has a large
Toorak home, a husband and three small
daughters to care for—Mrs. Tait gives
what is left of her time in work for the
Women’s Hospital. Last year she or-
ganised a Mother’s Day concert in the
Town Hall, at which Madge Elliott and
Cyril Ritchard were the stars and which
netted £3OOO for the hospital. Mrs. Tait
is now busy arranging another Mother’s
Day concert scheduled for May 11, and
members of J. C. Williamson companies
will give their services. Those in other
States will be flown to this city for the
concert. Mrs. Tait, who is a Scot by
birth, has a flawless complexion and titian
hair. She recently accompanied her hus-
band on a trip to England and America.
Many parties have been held for visit-
ing Americans Monty Williams and Mrs.
Williams, of San Francisco. Latest was
the buffet-dinner given by Mrs. William
Rowell at her East Melbourne home.
Mrs. Rowell wore a gown of dove-grey
tulle with sequins outlining the appliqued
petals on the strapless bodice. Mrs.
Williams’s sheath gown of heavy white
lace sprinkled with diamente featured a
deep flounce which flared out from the
knees. Among the guests were Lieut.-
General and Mrs. W. Cawthorne, the
latter wearing a brocade Chinese jacket
over a blhck frock ; Brigadier and Mrs.
Douglas Pain; the W. B. Faulkners;
Mrs. George Gardiner, wearing a tailored
gown of black crepe ; Mrs. Robert Reid,
whose strapless gown of black faille had
the bodice edged with white lace to
match the band of lace set at the low
hipline; Mrs. Ted Webb, her ankle-
length frock of sage-green velvet; Mrs.
Frank Lee in a black gown, the bodice
of which was sprinkled with blue and
black sequins; and Mrs. Fred Savage,
whose black satin gown had gold acces-
sories,
Mrs. Audrey Elford, for some years
Auxiliary organiser to the Children’s
Hospital, has retired, and her place has
been taken by Carmen Winter. Visiting
England before the war, Carmen worked
with the London County Council, visiting
schools in the East End with medical
officers and keeping records of all medical
and dental inspections. On her return to
Australia she worked with the Vic-
torian division of Red Cross, first as a
V.A. and later with the voluntary helpers
at Rockingham Rest Home.
Ola Cohn, of Melbourne, first woman
sculptor to win the George Crouch
prize in the 25 years since it was founded,
says it was only a fluke that she entered
at all. A friend was going to Ballarat
with a painting and asked her if she
would like a drive. When she was told
there was room for her piece of
sculpture, off they all went. The piece
of mountain-ash from which the carving
was done was given to Ola by a Forestry
Commission officer who remembered the
carvings on the Fairy Tree in the Fitzroy
Gardens. Part of the same log from
which her entry, “Abraham,” was carved
is being used by the sculptor for another
large work on the Garden of Eden. Ola
will be represented in an international
sculpture competition, which will be
judged in London, for works from all
parts of the world. Examples of the
sculptor’s work are in the galleries of
Ballarat, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide
and Bendigo.
The party given by Capt. and Mrs.
Charles Burge at their Brighton home was
in honor of Mies Hoogendoorn, cousin
of the hostess, who came from Holland
four months ago to spend a holiday with
them. English, American, Dutch and
Australian flags were mingled with
flowers to decorate the reception-
rooms. Mrs. Burge wore a gown of
black and gold tie-silk, the tunic top
featuring bracelet-length sleeves, Mies
was attractive in a bouffant off-the-
shoulder gown of black tulle. Among
the 40 guests were Heather Norway
(daughter of novelist Nevil Shute),
Marjorie Tatnall, Wayne Denbo, daughter
of Capt. Robert Denbo, the U.S. Naval
Attache, and Mrs. Denbo, and Pinky,
daughter of the Dutch Naval Attache,
Commander L. J. Goslings, and Mrs.
Goslings.
The new Royale ballroom at the Exhi-
bition opened with a big splash when
1000 dancers took the floor. Large bowls
of pastel hydrangeas mingled with dahlias,
gladioli and greenery in the foyer. Phlox,
hydrangeas and delphinium adorned the
official table. The ball, which was in
aid of the White Ensign Club for naval
ratings, was shorn of much of its glamor
by the absence, due to Court mourning,
of naval uniforms and decorations, but
uniformed members of the W.R.A.N.S.
and naval ratings acted as ushers. Presi-
dent of the W.E. Club, Ken Luke, and
Mrs. Luke received the official party.
Mrs, Luke’s gown was of orchid-pink and
pale-grey brocade. A swathe of orchid-
pink georgette on the strapless bodice
was caught at the hipline with a diamente
brooch and fell to the hem of the full
skirt. Lady Collins, who was with her
husband, Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins,
wore a full skirted gown of bronze-green
satin, the bodice massed with gold sequins
and pearls. With Commodore R. R.
Dowling was Mrs. Dowling, in
champagne-toned tulle over gold satin.
Also in the official party were the U.S.
Naval Attache, Capt, Robert Denbo, and
Mrs. Denbo, the assistant U.S. Naval
Attache, Commander R. Macklin, and
Mrs, Macklin, Commodore H. J-
Buchanan, the Maurice Nathans and
Mrs. Isobel Green.
Mrs. Royden Honeyman, a member of
the committee organising the dance, wore
a draped frock of white faille with silver
sequins on the strapless bodice. Mrs.
Con Curtain, another member of the
committee, chose a bouffant gown of
white tulle, with sequins scattered over
the full skirt and on the crossed shoulder-
straps. A deep-brown tulle frock, with
the strapless bodice finely pleated and
the skirt wide and full, was chosen by
Mrs. Constance Day. Mrs. J. Newton s
aqua-blue tulle had a large pink rose
set at the waist of the bouffant skirt. Mrs.
Ken Urquhart’s black lace frock had a
three-tiered skirt. Mrs. J. Ferguson wore
pastel-pink lace with silver embroideries.
Mrs. Frank Gillespie covered her scarlet
tulle gown with a matching lace stole.


Name
The
Greatest
the
in
World
Battery
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.. 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX3.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
In the magnificent fighting stand that
earned the Royal Australian Regiment a
U.S. Presidential citation last April
Sergeant W. J. Rowlandson collected a
D.C.M. for his own contribution to the
success of the show. He now has a bar
to add to it. The exploit which won him
the second award took place north of the
Imjin River on October 5, 1951, when the
wounding of his company commander
and his replacement by the platoon com-
mander placed Rowlandson in charge of
12 platoon at the height of an action
involving the capture of three successive
features. “His quick, cool and inspiring
leadership contributed largely to the
success of the first attack.” Wounded in
the leg in the second attack, he still led
his platoon on to capture that and the
third feature. Next time Rowlandson
leads a platoon he’ll have two pips on
his shoulder ; he’s at present attending an
officers’ school in Victoria.
First American ever to judge beef-
cattle in Australia, Clinton K. Tomson
will run the rule over the Shorthorns and
Poll Shorthorns at this year’s Royal
Easter Show. One of the third genera-
tion of Tomsons to breed Shorthorns —
the family has been at it for 65 years —
he won prizes at a Kansas show at the
age of 11 and has added quite a lot to
his collection since. Tomson has judged
show-stock in Buenos Ayres and Toronto
and has been executive secretary of the
American Shorthorn Breeders’ Associa-
tion for the past nine years. On the side
he’s an authority on drought control.
If the appointment of Dudley Senana-
yake as Prime Minister of Ceylon in
succession to his father, who died 10 days
ago after a fall from his horse, has the
appearance of the setting-up of a dynasty
it must be considered in the light of the
knowledge that the Senanayake family
has been in the forefront of the Ceylon
nationalist movement for over 40 years.
The late P.M., Don Stephen, went to jail
with his father and his brothers in 1914
on suspicion of being involved in anti-
British riots, but he did not really engage
in politics until 1924, when his brother,
first leader of the Independence party,
died. He was elected to the Legislative
Council, and in 1931 became Minister for
Agriculture. Becoming the party leader,
he worked to secure Dominion status for
Ceylon, and in 1947, when his dream came
true, he was chosen as his country’s first
Prime Minister. Son Dudley has been
very closely associated with his father in
the last few years. He succeeded him as
Minister for Agriculture, accompanied
him to Australia last year for the Jubilee
celebrations and now takes up where he
left off as Prime Minister. When
Colombo commemorates “Senanayake
Day” every year the statue in Victoria
Park on which flowers are hung is that
of Don Stephen’s elder brother Frank.
This year the day will have an added
significance.
Retired on Monday from the post of
joint general-manager of the A. & N.Z.
Bank, W. H. Thomas, who, before Aus-
tralia’s newest bank was formed last year
by the amalgamation of two of its oldest,
was g.m. of the Union, with which he had
put in a lifetime of service. The other
half of the joint, A. R. L. Wiltshire, will
now share his gee-emmery with W. W.
Riddington, till now the Bank’s deputy
g.m.
“X.S.”: Professor Auguste Piccard, the
Belgian physicist who plans to sink him-
self to a depth of a mile off the West
Italian coast shortly, can easily be con-
fused with Professor Jean Piccard, pro-
fessor of aeronautical engineering at Min-
nesota University. Both were born at
Basle, Switzerland, in 1884, and both were
educated at Basle and Munich —which is
not surprising, as they happen to be twin
brothers. One has spent lots of time
going down while the other has been
going up, though Auguste did make at
least one balloon ascent to the stratos-
phere, reaching a height of 54,000 ft. This
time he wants to beat the record of
Dr. William Beebe, the American
naturalist who descended to the depth of
3028 ft. off the Galapagos Islands.
When Clive Harcourt Burt was acci-
dentally killed in Victoria last month
Albury lost one of its best-known citizens.
Among the public positions he held at
one time or another were those of mayor,
president of the local sub-branch of the
R.S.L., treasurer of the Show Society,
chairman of the hospital board, com-
mitteeman of the Commercial Club and
the Albury Racing Club, president of the
Ovens and Murray Football League. Burt
served in the two wars —with the 18th
Battalion in the first and on the staff of
L.H.Q. in the second. Back in 1912 when
the “Kitchener scheme” was introduced,
Burt was a staff-sergeant at Albury
Camp. His cousin, Colonel Antill, was
C.O. of the camp, and one of the recruits
was a young man called Northcott.
Antill subsequently became a major-
general, and the rookie is now Governor
of N. S. Wales. Incidentally, both Burt
and Antill were descendants of Major
Henry Golden Antill, Governor Mac-
quarie’s aide-de-camp; so, too, was
Henry Golden Antill Harrison, whose
name is revered in Victoria as the founder
and father of Australian Rules football.
Clive Burt was an ardent Rules man and
was a life member of the Victorian
Country Football League.
With his mild manner (breaking now
and then into a face-lightening grin),
cultured voice and unruly mane of white
hair, Edward Guggenheim could be noth-
ing else but the distinguished professor
he is. Drawn by Prior at Sydney Uni.
just before starting his C.5.1.R.0. lectures
on chemical-physics, the prof, holds the
chair of chemistry at Reading University
(Eng.). Earlier he was working in
Montreal on the physical design of Har-
well’s atomic pile, and before that again
was one of the scientific advisers to the
Director of Torpedoes and Mines at the
Admiralty—his job to interpret to naval
officers ip seamanlike language what the
back-room boys were up to. When the
Department of Miscellaneous Weapons
was formed —birthplace of such novelties
as fast-aerial-mines (for defence by small
ships against attacking aircraft); rocket-
firing mortars for merchantmen; the
“shark” (an anti-submarine rocket with a
shallow trajectory fired from a 4in. gun).
SCIENCE AND SKIS.
and other pleasantries —Guggenheim was
a natural for it. While attached to that
department, with novelist Nevil Shute as
a fellow-worker, he also worked on the
“hedgehog,” the revolutionary anti-
submarine weapqn mounted on the
fo’c’sles of destroyers and frigates which
fired a splaying circle of depth-charges
ahead. It was Guggenheim who worked
out the angles of the 24-charge-holding
spigots, which ensure that all charges hit
the water at the same time. Fifty-one, son
of a former Swiss consul in Manchester,
the prof, has appeared in a raft of Euro-
pean and American scientific journals, and
appears on skis whenever conditions of
climate and geography permit.
This year’s Ballarat Crouch art prize
was won for the first time by a sculptor
or rather, sculptress, Ola Cohn, whose
“Abraham” in wood attracted the eye of
judge Louis McCubbin. She did the
monumental limestone figure for
Adelaide Pioneer Women’s Memorial in
1940, but in Melbourne she is best known
for the tree-trunk in the Fitzroy Gardens
which she covered with carvings of
animals and fairies —a lot of it was
souvenired before the work was finished.
Inveterate prize-winner Charles Bush
won the Minnie Crouch with
“Marseilles,” a water-color.
Having notched 80, Dr. James Sykes
Battye reckons its time he slowed
down to a canter-rafter occupying
it for 16 years he has vacated
the chair of Grand Master of West-
ralian Freemasonry. Principal of
the State’s public library since 1894,
he was born in Geelong (Vic.), and got
his Doctorate of Letters from Melbourne
University. For just on 60 years he has
been closely identified with the cultural
and educational life of Westralia —secre-
tary of the royal commission whose find-
ing led to the establishing of the State's
University ; the uni.’s chancellor for seven
years from 1936 ; one of the founders of
Perth Children’s Hospital; and for many
years a member of the governing board
of two big secondary schools in Perth.
In between, he found time to write a
history of Westralia, and to edit its
encyclopaedia.
Dramatist and radio script-writer
William Fitzmaurice Hill has carried off
the 1951 prize of fifty guineas given by
the Yorick Club, Melbourne, for a short-
story by an Australian writer. More than
200 yarns were submitted, and the three
judges—E. R. Reynolds, Q.C., Keith Sin-
clair (assistant-editor of the “Age”) and
Clive Turnbull (associate-editor of the
“Argus”)—were unanimous in placing
Hill’s “Hayfoot-Strawfoot” first, giving it
high commendation “for its literary
quality and novelty of conception.” Hill
was wounded at Bullecourt in 1917 —he
had joined the A.I.F. at 17 —and after
he came out of hospital he transferred to
the R.A.N. as wireless-operator. When
the second war came he stuck to signals,
but did his dit-dah-ditting with the Army,
serving in Greece, Crete, Syria and the
Pacific and finishing up as a lieut.-colonel.
Between wars he spent most of his time
in radio —announcer for the A.B.C. and
3DB, publicity-manager for 3DB and
scripting radio-drama.
“Melbn”: Likeliest bet for the job of
business-manager for the 1956 Olympic
Games is A. W. Coles, who has demon-
strated his organising ability so often
that Melbourne has complete con-
fidence in him. After World War I,
in which he fought on Gallipoli and in
France, he joined partnership with an
uncle and brother and launched the Coles
department store —“nothing over two and
sixpence.” Then he opened a Sydney
store, and branches proliferated over the
suburbs of both cities. He can hardly be
blamed for the fact that there is precious
little under two-and-six in the stores these
days. As chairman of the Commonwealth
Rationing Commission, Coles made as
much of a success of that appalling
muddle as any human being could have.
He was also chairman of the War
Damages Commission and first chairman
of Trans-Australian Airlines. Coles was
M.H.R. for Henty 1940-46, a member of
the Melbourne City Council for 10 years
and Lud Mayor for two.
Congregations at St. Andrew’s, Brighton
(Vic.), should not be surprised if the
sermons delivered by their new rector,
G. D. Codrington, show a preference for
the voyages of Jonah and St. Paul; for
eight years he was a naval chaplain, in
which capacity, while sailing in Malta
convoys, he crossed the sea-tracks of the
apostle, if not the prophet. Educated at
the Merchant Venturers’ School in
Bristol, Codrington joined the R.N. not
long after ordination, put in most of
1941 at the minesweeper training depot,
and was posted to carrier Eagle when she
went to the Mediterranean to take over
SERMONS IN SHIPS.
the duties of the sunken Ark Royal.
Those were the days of Malta’s travail,
when the toll on shipping was so severe
that five carriers and two battleships were
assigned to one convoy and considered
themselves lucky if one-third of their
charges reached the George Cross island.
Eagle was eventually sunk and Cod-
rington’s next pulpit was in Gibraltar.
After that England, Bombay—where he
met his wife —a naval station in Scotland,
back to the Med. again and three years
in a parish church in Birmingham.
Off to England for 12 months, Rev.
F. W. Albrecht, the outback sky-pilot
who's spent the last quarter-century car-
ing, for the hundreds of natives at the
Finke River Mission, Hermannsburg.
Back in 1926, when Albrecht, then just
ordained, went to Australia’s heart as the
superintendent of Hermannsburg, the
area \yas in the middle of a four-year
drought; natives were dying from malnu-
trition. In a few months he’d raised
enough money to have a fresh-water
pipeline constructed; later he established
gardens to supply the Binghis with food
holding the correct vitamins. His church
thought so much of him it gave him
12 months’ leave and £lOOO expenses ; the
natives thought so much each artist in
the mission gave him two paintings.
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 53, Harry Wann, Sydney
black-and-white artist on the staff of Associated
Newspapers for over 20 years and at one time
a contributor of sketches to The Bulletin.
Wann died from injuries received in a motor
accident while visiting South Australia for an
exhibition of his work.
In Sydney, at 68, Claude Flemming, for half
a century a notable figure on the Australian
stage. He began his career in 1903 as the
Dauphin in George Rignold’s production of
Henry V, played in first-class company m
London and New York, appeared in several
Hollywood films and was always popular with
Australian audiences, who saw him for the last
time as Buffalo Bill in “Annie Get Your Gun.
At 45, at O’Halloran Hill (S.A.), Russell
Vardon, one of the biggest stud sheepbreeders
of that district, and, through his other interests
—pig-raising, wine- and pea-growing—known
pretty-well throughout the State. Secretary of
the S.A. Flaxgrowers’ Association, Vardon had
of late concentrated on pea-growing, his holding
being large enough to warrant its own pea-
cannery processing plant. The youth of the
district owed him much for his interest in
their activities, particularly sporting.
At 81, in Adelaide, Arthur Crossing, who,
with his brother, in 1894 started a butcher’s
shop in Broken Hill. That early interest in
stock developed into ownership of Waverley
Downs Station (on the Queensland border),
interests in eight other stations, presidency of
the West Darling Pastoralists’ Association, and
a reputation in S. Australia as one of its leading
graziers. The building housing the present
Presbyterian Ladies’ College in Adelaide was
once his.


Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen. Tourists
or Naturalists.
df
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 12±% Sales Tax
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses,
sd
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
i grasses
Make Your Own Leather
Strong, Pliable, Durable
Also Tan Fur Skins and Tan
and Dye Woolskins
Send six stamps for samples and
particulars
BENJAMIN A. PHEEPS,
Petone, N.Z.
frv r
Hsi.
|iesas»frSo%
and jazz has begun,
And frivolous flappers are out for
fun.
Seeking the scenes where the arc-
lights glare.
Taking a chance in the chill night
air.
O Sadie and Maisie and Edna and
May,
What will poor father and mother
say
In the “wee small hours” if there’s “ ’flu” to
endure,
Without your
Woods’ Great Peppermint Care.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
New Dehom Method.
“A. 1.5.”: A caustic-in-col-
lodion solution has outdated the
usual calf-dehorning implements,
according to N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture. The solution,
which contains 28 per cent,
antimony trichloride, 7 per cent,
salicyclic acid and 65 per cent,
flexible collodion, is practically
painless, and does away with the
hot-iron or messy grease-ring
caustic method which sometimes
leads to disfigurement or injury
to the calf’s eyes.
The operator can do a first-
class dehorning job without
danger of caustic burns to him-
self or the calf. It should be
done when the calf is from three
to 10 days old.
The hair is clipped from
around the horn button, and .the
whole area slightly roughened
by rubbing briskly with a stiff
brush or a piece of steel-wool so
that the solution can make close
contact with the horn bud.
A thick coating of the mix-
ture is then applied with a small
brush, and well spread around
the outer area of the horn but-
ton. The solution dries within a
minute, forming a tough, flexible
film over the horn bud. As soon
as it is dry the calf can be
released.
The caustic action of the solu-
tion continues underneath the
film and the horn tissues are
gradually destroyed. In about
three or four weeks the film-like
scale drops off and shortly after-
wards the hair will be growing
over the area, the horns having
been completely destroyed.
A Spare-time Job.
“R. Ney”: Too many let
shearing rush upon them before
they’re ready. If you have any
spare time begin preparations
now. Make a start with the
yards. Get a notebook and
pencil and tour from end to end.
Examine every yard, gate, rail
and so forth. Is this or that yard
sheep-proof? Are no rails
broken or missing? Is that gate
sagging? Does it drag on the
ground? Is the netting sound in
the lamb-yard? Don’t forget all
the swearing there was and the
bad temper last year when gates
were hard to undo or wouldn’t
stay put when fastened.
The drafting-gates should get
special attention. So should the
race and the floor of it. Watch
for nail-heads sticking out, long
splinters, bits of wire. The wire-
twitch you shoved on in a hurry
last year ought to be cut away
now and a proper joint made.
And how is the floor of the
race? Worn to a basin and
likely to become a mudhole in
the wet?
Funny how the pages of the
notebook fill up when you
thought everything was in good
order.
Wimmera Wheats.
“Mr.”; In wheat-variety trials
on southern Wimmera black
soils highest yields last season
were given by Pinnacle, Pindar
Selection and Insignia.
In 1951-52 Pinnacle won nine
of the 11 crop competitions in
southern Wimmera and the
championship. A nine - year
average of 40.7 bushels per acre
gained for Pinnacle official
recommendation for general
sowing on Wimmera black soils.
It produces a good flour of
better baking quality than the
widely - sown Quadrat and
Magnet.
Pindar Selection, which gave
the highest yield at Kaniva last
year (68.7 bushels), closely
resembles Pinnacle in appear-
ance and yielding ability. On
black ground the early-maturing
Insignia also did well, but over
a period of years its average
returns have not been as high as
those of Pinnacle and Quadrat.
Bees in the House.
“Drone B.”; If bees have
homed in your house and the
aim is simply to rid the place of
them fumigation or spraying is
the thing. If the combs are
accessible, block all entrances
except the main one, and when
the bees have ceased flying for
the day spray bees and combs
thoroughly with “E. 605,” or
benzene hexachloride, then block
the main entrance and leave for
a day or two. When the bees
are all dead the combs should
be removed,
When the combs cannot
readily be got at, fumigation
will have to be done. Insecticidal-
smoke candles, used according to
makers’ directions, are most
effective. The nest should be
isolated as far as possible in its
own wall sector and all holes
blocked up.
If you want to keep the bees,
one method, which only applies
to weatherboard houses, is to
open up the wall, exposing the
nest. The combs with bees are
then cut out and tied into stan-
dard frames, which are then
placed in a previously prepared
hive. The bees left after re-
moval of the combs are brushed
into a box and dumped into the
hive. The wall can then be re-
closed and all openings blocked.
The second method takes
much longer, but is less messy,
requires less handling of the
bees and is applicable to any
house and even to trees, A small
platform is built outside the
main entrance to the nest. A
standard hive is made into a
small nucleus containing two or
three frames of brood and bees
and a young laying queen. This
nucleus is then placed on the
platform with its entrance close
to, and at right-angles to the
direction of, the main nest
entrance. A flywire funnel is
placed over the entrance with
the small end outward. It
should be large enough to allow
a bee to pass.
The bees are thus easily able
to leave the wall, but find it very
hard to get back in. The
majority will in a short while
adopt the nucleus as their new
home. Thus the wall nest will
gradually be deprived of most of
its bees. When almost exhausted
it may be killed out with insecti-
cide, the combs removed if pos-
sible and the nucleus moved to
its permanent position.
An alternative is to drill a
hole in an empty hive, place it
over the wall entrance and fit a
bee-escape over the hole so that
the bees leave the wall through
the escape into the hive and
thence out the hive entrance, but
are unable to return into the
wall. After a day two frames
of brood can be put into the
hive and the supply kept up
while necessary. The final steps
are as above.
New Queensland Wheat.
“Agric”; A new wheat on the
Darling Downs has been suc-
cessfully tested in six-acre plots
on many farms. Its good per-
formances under wet conditions
in 1950 and very dry conditions
in 1951 has intrigued farmers.
The wheat is a product of
Queensland research, the hybrid
designation being T.S.K.P.F.,
which brings in Three Seas and
Pusa-Flora; it awaits an official
name, though the unofficial
being used is Delta. This might
clash with an earlier-named
variety, Dookie Delta.
H, F. Banks (Bongeen) grew
six acres of the new wheat and
now has 64 bags of seed which
will be used in sowing 200 acres.
Generally, however, the seed is
hard to get. The new wheat is
a quick-maturing variety and
therefore suitable for June or
July planting. It is not recom-
mended for planting in April or
May as it is likely to be injured
by frost in the heading stages.
3
Preserve the Young.
“Bill C.”: A Southern Queens-
land pig expert opposes giving
the skim-milk to grown pigs and
letting the little pigs go short in
time of drought. He says it’s
better to give unadulterated skim
to the young pigs and watered
milk to the grown ones.
Young pigs can be brought to
bacon weight at low cost on a
ration of mostly lucerne pasture
and water. Oats, wheat or rape,
especially the latter, could
replace lucerne in places where
lucerne won’t grow—if there are
any.
Young pigs will benefit from
grain from the age of five weeks.
At that age they aren’t getting
sufficient milk from the sow. The
grain should be troughed in a
railed-off corner of the pen
where the piglets, but not the
sow, may reach it.
Each piglet at eight weeks
should be getting 21b. of grain
per day, increasing by 11b. every
month.
Silage may be fed to breeding
sows, but is no good for young
pigs.
Infra-red on Chickens.
“A-Jay”: In commercial
rearing of chicks there appears
to be no advantage in using
infra-red lights except for the
“ Listen, Mat —Serenade in C Major, Opus Forty-eight,
by Tschaikowsky."
ready observation of the chicks
at all times, according to Vic-
torian tests. Infra-red lights
apparently encourage cannibal-
ism.
The place for infra-red brood-
ing in chicken-rearing would
seem to be in the raising of
small-farm lots where a com-
fortable shed is available, to-
gether with access to suitable
pasture runs. The simplicity of
the equipment and the ease of
operation suggest that it has
possibilities for the small
poultry-farmer rather than the
commercial breeder.
Feeding Dairy Cows.
“Inver”: Careful trials have
shown that cows well fed during
winter will produce from 261 b.
to 631 b. more butterfat in the
following lactation than those
poorly fed.
There is no better winter feed
than good pasture. Graze this
for about an hour a day and
feed 201 b. of silage and 41b. to
61b. of hay per head. If pasture
is not available give the cows
as much hay as they will eat,
certainly not less than 101 b. in
addition to the 201 b, of silage. If
the winter is a mild one and
good grazing is available silage
may be omitted, but ample hay
should still be provided.
Skeleton-weed.
“Hormo Herb”: The
hormone weedicides, such as
2,4-D, will kill any plant if it
gets enough of them, but the
important point is the cost.
With its roots capable of going
down sft. or 6ft., and regrowth
being made from any piece of
the root, it is not economical to
try to kill skeleton-weed com-
pletely with 2,4-D, Latest de-
velopment is to use the selective
weedicidal action of this
hormone by spraying wheat
crops with a formulation calcu-
lated to knock back the weed
without injury to the crop.
By this means the above-
ground growth of skeleton is
stopped, and competition with
the wheat for moisture and plant
food reduced so much that it is
not only unnecessary to abandon
the harvesting of the crop, as
frequently occurs in heavy infes-
tations, but possible to harvest
the crop without risking break-
ing of machinery and with
reduced loss of yield.
A few thousand acres of
infested wheat were successfully
treated with the amine salt of
2,4-D (using about fib. of the
acid-equivalent per acre) in
N.S.W. during the past season,
and a greatly-increased spray
programme would assist
materially in wheat-production
this year.
Gardening Pastures.
“Whit”: N.S.W. farmers who
recently toured New Zealand
returned with the impression
that “gardening” puts the bloom
in N.Z. pastures. The N.Z.
system of heavy fertilising, high-
carrying - capacity, rotational
grazing, adequate storage of
fodder and all-round use of the
land could be adopted here, par-
ticularly in dairying districts.
Common practice on N.Z.
farms is the application of be-
tween 2cwt. and 3cwt. of super,
to the acre. In some areas potash
was applied at 601 b, to the acre
and lime at from scwt. to 20cwt.
Where pastures are inclined
to be rank, N.Z. farmers use
stock to keep them down, not
so much by feeding as treading.
Use is made of a heavy roller,
something seldom seen here.
Victorian farmers also apply
heavy topdressing. E. B. Furby,
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
There was a cyclical redistribution of rains due to a
sudden change in the last sunspot group. The result is that
the cyclical rains of late March, 1881, and those of early
April, 1916, which are both events in the Bruckner cycle,
have been combined. This is in keeping with the theory
used at this observatory, and there are many examples of it
in our records.
This means that the next rains should be in mid-April,
followed by more in early May. They are shown on both
cycles and preceded by the first marked drop in temperature.
At present the sun is entirely free from spots, and the next
advent cannot be predicted.


EYE LOTION
lor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids Sold Everywhere
H.Rose4 Co.,Ply-Ltd., King Street, Sydney.
VISITING MELBOURNE/
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870. After Hours, BJ 1957.
PALACE ST.
SCORE i CD
*-*DEMCO
BOARD
MACHIN E RY
CO. PTY. ITO,
r»
§?j ancus/
65 .o/oramd/
#34
STAND
SUITOR AVE.
S 3
|®S
Tool>
lAftS
i^AOoi
tools
MA^IaACTO^
f***
Don’t miss our exhibit
ROYAL EASTER SHOW —SYDNEY
4th to 15th APRIL—I9S2
STAND OPEN FOR INSPECTION 9 a.m. till 7.30 p.m.
HA NO MAG
TRACTORS
MACHINE TOOLS
SMALL TOOLS
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. PTY. LTD.,
243-247 Cleveland Street, Redfern, N.S.W. Phone MX 4121
Factory or Warehouse Site
IN ROCKHAMPTON
We are instructed by The Port Curtis Co-operative Dairy Association, Ltd.,
to sell by Public Auction, their:—
Freehold Property, situated at the Corner of Bolsover and Stanley Streets,
Rockhampton, Queensland, which has a frontage of 266 ft. to Bolsover
Street, 165 ft. to Stanley Street, and 266 ft. to Bast Lane, with Rail Siding
on the property connecting it to Rockhampton Railway Station and Goods
Yard, and to the Fitzroy River Wharves in the city.
The Auction Sale will be held in the Rooms of THE FARM EXCHANGE,
19 Denham Street (opposite Leichhardt Hotel), Rockhampton, on
WEDNESDAY, 30XH APRIL,, 1952, at 11.30 A.M.
This is the ONLY LARGE FACTORY AND WAREHOUSE SITE in
Rockhampton with RAIL SIDING, Central location, close to wharf, railway
and business centre, In the industrial zone, close to Australia’s second-
largest River, that is not occupied by any building.
It is suitable specially for Oil Companies, Sawmillers and Timber
Merchants, Manufacturers and Pastoral Houses.
Central Queensland contains such a vast natural wealth in its fertile
soils, river valley irrigation facilities, coal, cattle, sheep, cement, and
Mt. Morgan fertiliser, that it will certainly become a very wealthy separate
State, and Rockhampton (pop. 35,000), with Railway transport converging
on it from North, South and West and sea transport along the Fitzroy
River and Port Alma to its very centre, is certain to be a great City.
No large Business Organisation can go wrong by investing in such a
unique and valuable FACTORY AND WAREHOUSE SITE.
For details apply THE FARM EXCHANGE (Harding & Webb),
Auctioneers—Farm Specialists—Valuers, 19 Denham Street, Rockhampton.
Phone 3768. After hours 3199 and 2161.
NOW you can
CASTRATE
& TAIL
SO fASWt with the
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
AUTOMATIC
RING LOADER
(PATT.APP. No. 315231/49)
for use with Elastrator instrument and Elastrator ring.'.
Castration and Tailing the Elastrator way is already famous
for its efficiency. Now it is quicker, even cleaner than before.
Order your Elastrator Automatic Ring Loader now from your
usual Elastrator supplier.
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station Agents,
Chemists and Stores.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD_
82/52.
4m
XT'
IfiLBSiK
Foresight in regard
to your Estate
What will happen to the Estate
that you have built up over a lifetime,
when your guiding hand is with-
drawn?
Consider the advantages assured
for his dependents by a man who
appoints Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as his Executor and Trustee.
The Company is specially consti-
tuted to carry out its duties. It has a
record of sixty-three years' service to
the community, whose confidence in
its business-like methods and its
courteous, sympathetic service has
made it the largest Trustee Company
in the Southern Hemisphere.
If you would have particulars of
the services offered by the Company,
ring B 0377, or write, and make an
appointment. A Senior Officer will be
pleased to give the information you
desire.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
DIRECTORS:
Hon T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
R KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT;
‘SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
H. Y. DOUGLASS, Managing Direct;—
A. G. AT.MYTAGS, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH AND ORANGE
of N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, who visited Vic.-Murray
areas with three N.S.W. agro-
nomists, found that a striking
feature was the almost general
reliance on permanent pastures
(comprising white clover and
perennial-rye which, in many
areas, had appeared voluntarily
after grading), watering and
heavy applications of super.
On farms of about 100 acres,
where heavy fertilising was the
practice, it was common to find
between 40 and 50 cows being
milked and dry stock carried.
All these farms are subdivided
into paddocks of four or five
acres for rotational grazing, and
annual mowing and harrowing
is done.
Army Worms.
“8.J.L.”: With abundance of
grass after the rain the army
worm has appeared in N.Q.
canefields. It is a dull greenish
caterpillar, about long. A
horde of these pests will
originate in the grass alongside
the cane and then advance to-
wards the young shoots. The
worms hide within the leaves
during the day and feed at
night, stripping the leaves on a
face. The cane is not completely
killed, but growth is set back
at least six weeks.
If the infested block is only a
small one it can be treated by
spraying with 20 p.c. D.D.T.
solution in the strength of about
threequarters of a teacup to
3gal. of water.
To stop further invasion,
plough three furrows around the
block of cane, and, using
a household flour-sifter or piece
of hessian, dust a strip about 3in,
wide all round the block with
ordinary gammexane. The
caterpillar breathes through
vents along the side of its body
and gammexane thus poisons it.
Onions.
“Hortus”: No success can be
expected with onions unless the
young plants are set in a very
firm bed. The best idea is to
make a drill, put in the phos-
phate and potash (I use three
of super, to one of wood-ashes)
and then level the soil again.
Before planting out make the
ground over the drill as firm as
you can. Then with a finger
make a small hole in the closed
drill and insert the young onion.
Don’t cover the bulb, only roots.
Trim off the roots and the green
top beforehand. In this way all
nourishment goes into the bulb.
Tree-felling.
“Shadow-chaser”: To fall a
tree against the natural lean
start your cut on the leaning
side. Immediately the saw-cut
is deep enough insert two
wedges behind the saw and keep
tapping them in as the cut
deepens until about halfway
through the tree. Now drop the
saw, and whilst your mate scarfs
the tree on the opposite side
keep tapping the wedges home.
Restoring an Orchard.
“C.A.A.”: First step in restor-
ing an orchard is to get organic-
matter back into the soil.
A start can be made by spread-
ing waste grass liberally over the
ground. In the autumn top-
dress, then disk both ways as
soon as ploughing-time arrives.
The grass cover should be so
thick that the disk does not cut
into the soil, but merely chops
the grass about so that most of
it withers off. As further growth
will come in spring, repeat the
discing process on a warm day
to wither the remaining grass,
thus leaving a perfect mulch for
the approaching summer.
In the second year there will
be sufficient grass to make a
good stand. Plough the lot
under. Sow a cover crop in the
third year, and in the fourth
replenish with waste material.
With an orchard divided into
four sections each block can
receive this treatment annually.
Apply about 21b. of sulphate
of ammonia per tree when top-
dressing in the autumn, all four
sections being treated alike. Add
a further 21b. per tree when
disking or ploughing.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sari”: Don’t make a seed-
bed beneath or near a living tree.
Big drops of water falling from
the leaves during a downpour
will damage tender seedlings
more than direct heavy rain. If
you’re afraid of heavy rain, set
a forked post in the ground at
each corner of the bed and run
straight poles and crosspieces
over to carry a piece or two of
corrugated-iron. The iron should
be high enough to let the morn-
ing sun shine on the bed.
“M.”: Store pumpkins under
shelter on a wooden shelf;
Queensland blues on their sides,
triambles stem downwards to
prevent moisture lodging in the
cavities. Pile them no more
than 2ft. or 3ft. deep where air
can circulate freely and to per-
mit easy inspection and removal
of decayed specimens.
“Myrrhee”; Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture is running a
course in fruitgrowing from
May 27 to June 13. A fee of
£2 ss. covers board, lodging and
tuition. The Superintendent of
Agricultural Education, Treasury
Gardens, Melbourne, C. 2, has
the information.
“Eurimburra”: The best way
to get rid of a troublesome fox
is to shoot a white fowl and with
hands in well-used gardening
gloves make a big cut in the
breast over the heart and liver.
Then work in a flat teaspoon of
strychnine to which has been
added an equal quantity of
baking-soda. Never mind put-
ting the poison down the fowl’s
neck; a fox rarely takes the
head off a dead bird,
“Sundowner”: In districts of
mild winter the autumn is a
good time to plant celery. Keep
the plants well mulched with
farmyard manure or watered
with liquid manure consisting of
loz. of soda sulphate of
ammonia to 4gal. of water.
“Clawer”: Where you can
drive a nail in at a slight angle
do it. It not only makes driving
the nail easier but the two pieces
thus nailed together will be
more strongly joined.
“Big Billy”: See that sawdust
is at least partly rotted before
using directly in the soil or as a
mulch. Best way to use is to
incorporate in a compost heap,
but be sure that it is not more
than 10 p.c. of total bulk
—if the heap consists entirely of
stable manure that figure could
be increased to 20 p.c. An
alternative method is to spread
the sawdust on a path or drive-
way about 12in. thick. In
about six months it will be in
good condition to apply to the
soil, and will also suppress
weeds on the track. When used
as a mulch see that not more
than two inches is applied. Saw-
dust is also useful to cover seed-
beds between drills, but it should
first be sieved.
“Myrr”: Winners of this
year’s Victorian wheat - crop
championships are: Southern
Wimmera, D. J. Dunlop,
Rupanyup ; northern Wimmera,
B. and G. Kendall, Charlton ;
Mallee, F. J. Hofmaier, Hope-
toun; Northern District, L.
Lawrence, Numurkah,


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Pachers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies;—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Come in
m*
please!
m
A\^\
)
h \
€U
-
h
o /
/ \\ 1
A U
I .
IWI
SII
~-s=*
VL
6%
THIS is a friendly invita-
tion to you from your
nearest Branch of the
Commonwealth Bank.
In the Manager’s office
your financial position, your problems, your plans may
be discussed with complete frankness and with the
assurance that the information will always be kept
confidential.
The Commonwealth Bank is a modern trading Bank
and offers you a full range of banking services. Cheque
Accounts, Finance for Commerce and Industry, Over-
drafts, Letters of Credit and Travellers’ Cheques,
Interest-bearing Deposits, Housing Loans, Loans tor
Primary Producers these are only some of the
facilities available.
The staff of your nearest Branch says, "Come in
please and let’s get acquainted.”
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
-the bank you ow N"
cae.aJ-«*
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
Parable for Parents.
When little Joe Blow kicked his
teacher lame
And was sent sadly home-
wards in disgrace.
His mother roared: “What
cruelty ! For shame !”
And rushed to school, and
slapped the teacher’s face.
When Joey prodded teacher with
a spear
The teacher sighed and
murmured : “Really, Joe,
You shouldn’t, pet. Stand in the
corner, dear.”
“Victimisation!” thundered
Mrs. Blow.
When Joe developed his amusing
craze
For chopping bits off all the
teachers’ noses,
His tactful school-report read :
“Joe displays
No discipline but what
superb psychoses!”
“No discipline ?” cried Mrs.
Blow. “The fools!
The fault’s not in ourselves, but
in our schools!”
Neil Millar.
4* 4*
“Norwegians have invented an
edible sausage-skin from seaweed.”
This will make the mystery
harder to fathom than ever.
4* 4* 4E*
“Take a look at a girl’s legs next
time you’re in a coffee-lounge.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
But don’t give her grounds for
complaint.
4* 4* 4*
“Man is always looking at the
material things, the money angle.”
—Sydney “Suri.”
An acute angle, too.
“Garage wanted, smokes for rent
if suitable.” — Suburban paper.
A big draw.
4* 4*
“Film music is even more painful
than my sciatica. Most of it has
nothing whatever to do with the
story.”
—Conductor Sir Thomas Beecham.
But, unlike sciatica, it can be
kept in the background.
»I* 'h
“Customs officers looking for con-
traband in Mexico found a consign-
ment of needles in a truckload of
hay.”— Sydney “Truth.”
You can’t even trust an old
proverb these days.
A Little Petard-hoisting.
It was about a week or so
after the new neighbors had
shifted in next door. Some time
after had put the light out I
was awakened by a dig in the
ribs from Agapanthus, and
caught her excited whisper:
“Quick! You’d better get up
and have a look around —I think
it’s someone trying to break in.”
Fighting my way up from the
blankets, I listened intently, then
switched on the bedlamp,
“My dear,” I explained with
my wonted patience, “when a
person of burglarious intent
decides he has more right to
your goods and chattels than
you, he invariably follows the
rules laid down by the Ethics
Committee of the Burglars’
Association and proceeds to his
task in as stealthy a manner as
possible. This he does purely
out of courtesy, appreciating the
difficulties of getting to sleep
again after one has been
awakened in circumstances not
entirely unconnected with excite-
ment and possibly fear. The
sound you hear is hammering,
and it is coming from the region
of the new neighbor’s back
veranda.”
“Well! I like that /” exclaimed
Agapanthus indignantly, speak-
ing in the italics she favors for
such occasions. “He has all night
after his dinner to do it, and he
has to wait until people are
going to bed before starting.
You want to go and tick him
off!”
I had caught a glimpse of the
fellow in the garden over the
weekend. He bulged vastly out
of his athletic singlet, and I
judged he’d have no difficulty in
carrying a set of concrete tubs
under each arm.
“We’ll give him a bit of time
“Cheer up, Tiger—I c'n put y ’ on to a good
plastic surgeon."
first,” I said magnanimously.
“He probably doesn’t realise it
is so late.”
He finished hammering at a
quarter-past twelve, and we got
to sleep at around two o’clock.
Next morning Agapanthus
announced her intention of get-
ting a petition signed by the
neighbors and sending it to the
council’s nuisance-inspector.
“I have a better method,” I
said. “There’s only one way to
drive a lesson home to incon-
siderate people like that. It
would be useless chatting him —
he’d be too thick in the hide.
If he starts it again tonight I’ll
pay him back in his own kind.”
That night he began his
carpentering at about 11 o’clock,
just after we had got to the
desirable state of drowsiness by
reading until we began going
over the same line several times.
He finished at 12.30. Giving
him time to get into bed, I got
up, pulled my gardening-pants
on, dragged the motor-mower
out of the garage and did the
front and back lawns. For the
first time I was grateful for the
backfiring it has developed
lately, I could imagine the
fellow squirming in his bed.
But you would scarcely expect
a case-hardened cow like him to
curl up and crack right away.
He didn’t. Next night he began
sawing wood on his back
veranda. He started at about
half-past 10. Apparently the
curtailed sleep of the night
before was having its effect,
however, for he finished up at
only half-past one.
About 10 minutes after I saw
his bedroom light go out I got
up, savagely dragged out of the
garage an old sheet of
corrugated-iron, pulled it down
as close as I could to the side
fence near his bedroom window,
and put in three-quarters of an
hour on it with a hacksaw. A
few of the other neighbors came
over and started to go a bit
snaky about it, but when I
explained that it was designed
to scotch once_ and for all the
nocturnal labors of our common
enemy they were slightly
mollified.
Next night the pest came
home from the pictures at about
11 o’clock, and we thought that
he’d be glad to flop into bed.
But in fairness I must pay
tribute to his amazing stamina,
in view of the loss of sleep he’d
suffered by his own and my
efforts, for he began pulling
nails out of boards. They must
have been very rusty nails, judg-
ing by the shrieks that accom-
panied each extraction. He
didn’t desist from these efforts
until almost two o’clock.
It was then that I played my
master - stroke. Putting the
mantel-model radio outside my
side window on his side, I tuned
into the all-night station and let
her go full blast. I was deter-
mined to see it out to the bitter
end. And I would have, only
I had to switch it off at about
four o’clock to save Aga-
panthus’s reason.
Next morning we were both
wrecks, with sable circles under
our eyes, and at the office I
took off vertically for three feet
when someone struck a match
behind me. But I was deter-
mined he wouldn’t beat me. That
day I hired a concrete-mixer.
Filling it up, I waited
until he had finished his
nightly handyman stuff at
about one o’clock, then set
it going. It would still be
going, as far as I’m concerned,
only I had to switch it off to
ring the doctor, as Agapanthus
wouldn’t come out of her
hysterics. Next morning I fully
expected my neighbor to come
in and implore me to call every-
thing off. But there was no sign.
He was tough, right enough.
It was Saturday morning, and
I was clipping the edges in front
when my pestiferous neighbor
came across to the low dividing-
fence.
“Good day,” he greeted me.
Then he jerked his thumb over
his shoulder. “Bloke on the
other side was just going lousy,”
he said, grinning. “Seems you’ve
been sawing iron, having your
wireless blaring and a concrete-
mixer going in the early hours.
Didn’t know anything about it—
the missus and I could doss on
barbed-wire ; we just die when
we hit the pillow.”
Bo.
Oh, Baby!
“Babies are wily creatures who
know just what they want and how
to get it.” —Sydney “D.T
Man has been putty in a
woman’s hands
Since Adam was subjected to
temptation,
And chiefly, when he thinks he
understands
Her nature, errs in under-
estimation,
For she is full of trickery and
wiles
When speech has barely reached
the stage of “goo”-ing,
More so when she can flatter him
with smiles
And soothe his manly wrath
\ with sugared cooing.
Yet aided by the wisdom given
him
In recent years by shrewd
psychologists
Her blandishments he easily
resists
And need no longer grant her
every whim;
For if his babe-in-arms would
have him deck her
In finery, he simply has to
cheque her.
D.H.E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Worker and the Boss
It has become far too common for
many people, both Australians and
foreigners, to jeer at Australian work-
manship, and to belittle products turned
out by our secondary industries. An
article made in Australia is referred to as
being “almost as good as the imported
thing” or, almost apologetically, “made
locally.”
That attitude is just as fallacious and
mischievous as the old remark about the
Anzacs—“they’re too undisciplined to
make good fighters.” Time and perform-
ance in two wars have given that old libel
the lie.
But the statement that Australian work-
manship is slipshod and second-grade
continues to flourish. Yet, in the fields
of radio, aircraft, farm-machinery and
automobile production, as well as many
others, Australian factories turn out pro-
ducts equal to the world’s best.
Men like W- A. Miskoe, of the
American firm of Lincoln Electric
(Miskoe is an American), have said
publicly that they consider the Australian
worker the equal of any in the world,
and praise his initiative and sense of
responsibility. Miskoe runs his Sydney
factory on the incentive-payment system,
and has never lost a day through indus-
trial disturbances. His employees are
keen, and even at the peak of the labor
shortage there was a long w r aiting-list of
skilled men anxious to join Lincoln’s
staff.
Doesn’t that indicate that most Aus-
tralian employers have a good deal to
learn about industrial management? If
not, why should an American factory-
boss enjoy immunity from the industrial
disturbances which plague the country?
The trouble, of course, _ is not the
monopoly of either side. Labor unions
have become so riddled with political
doctrine that it is hard to separate their
political from their industrial functions.
They are largely unconcerned with the
dignity or status of their members, and
stick narrowly to a policy of “beating
the boss”—which is heartily reciprocated
from the other side of the conference
table, as anyone with arbitration experi-
ence knows only too well.
Where, today, are there any signs of
the soul that the Labor movement of the
last century undoubtedly possessed?
Once it had a literature of its own.
Gifted writers like Jack London, Henry
George and Upton Sinclair in America,
Shaw and Wells in England, and a strong
band headed by Henry Lawson in. Aus-
tralia espoused the cause of the working
man, and in most cases were working
men, or the sons of working men, them-
selves. .
Today Leftist literature is poured out
by introspective Parlor Pinks. It is
largely incomprehensible and sickening
rather than inspiring.
There is no room for individualism in
Labor today. To rise in the A.L.P. a
man must go through a discipline as hard
as anything Tammany ever imposed. He
must sign pledges, whether he believes
in them or not; he must bind himself
to be ruled by shadow-groups at Trades
Hall; he must vote the ticket or face
expulsion. And behind all lurks the
sinister pressure-group of the Com-
munists, anxious to support men pre-
pared to do their bidding, eager to crucify
those who oppose them.
And, unfortunately, the worker, when
he votes, must choose between the
A.L.P. and the “employers’ ” party. The
two groups are as well defined in Parlia-
ment as they are in the Arbitration
Court.
Some day, soon, the middle course will
have to be opened and the non-Socialist
Labor man (be he miner, writer, doctor
or station-hand) will have his say. And
the fact that he is the closest approach
to that strong figure, the average Aus-
tralian, bodes well for the future.
It was the average Australian who
stormed the heights at Anzac, who held
the great German break-through of 1918
at Amiens, and who fought so well in
desert and jungle in 1939-45. He is still
"D' you think she'll know we put peper in her face-powder?"
fighting in Korea. He is the average
Australian in battledress, and in him lies
the future of this country. — Inall
(N.S.W.).
Food-production
Wool, like gold, is all very , well, but
it has the same drawback. It cannot be
eaten. Certainly the sheep can be eaten,
but there is a great disinclination to make
the meal while wool prices remain so
high. Compared with the production of
cereals, vegetables, butter, eggs and
milk, wool is easy money and the cocky,
like other people, does what is easiest and
most profitable. #
Motor-cars, washing-machines and all
sorts of other gadgets considered so
important in our daily life can be bought,
but not food. We must produce our own,
as other countries have none to spare.
Rather, they look to us for it.
This ‘ going for the easy-money is
manifest in many things. The shortage of
eggs, for instance. Poultryfarmers can
now get so much for their birds as table
poultry that all the trouble of sexing
chickens and concentrating on laying-
hens has gone into the discard. The birds
of both sexes are fattened and sold.
Vegetables are of poor quality, scarce
and dear. The reason is not far to seek.
Apart from market-gardening being hard
work, most of the old-time gardens
around Melbourne, for instance, were
situated in the sandy belt east of the
city. This is now valuable suburban
building-land, so many of the gardens
have been handed oyer to the sub-
divider, and the owners have retired or
taken on other work in the city. No
doubt the same sort of thing is going on
in the other capitals. The patient, toiling
Chinaman, whose prolific gardens once
brightened the landscape around the cities
and the larger country towns, is a thing
of the past.
The Federal Government has placed
this matter of unbalanced production
high on its programme, and the inevitable
conferences are to be held. No doubt
the usual crop of committees will emerge
and perhaps a few more boards, but it
will be surprising indeed if bodies of
that nature achieve anything towards
overcoming the calamitous decline in the
value of our exports of foodstuffs and
the threat to our own living standards.
What we want, of course, is a peasant
population with its small holdings situ-
ated near the great centres of population.
Some politician once said that and got
into hot water for it, but he was right.
If we did have such a class, they would
need to be allowed to conduct their own
business and marketing arrangements,
much the same as is done in Europe.
That, however, would not suit our boards
and complicated marketing controls.
Much too simple ; and peasants and their
industrious habits would hardly fit in
with the much-vaunted Australian “way
of life.” — Ceg (Vic.).
The Trans
Tell “G. 8.” (B. 12/12/’sl)—who
seems inclined to question my veracity
that the Trans railway timetable quoted
by him was, as far as I know, the original
1917 effort to which the train, like so
many others throughout the world, had
to be decelerated during the war. It
was certainly the schedule in use when
I passed that way in 1929. Had he
wished to travel west from 1938 onward
he could have taken a through sleeper
from Melbourne at 7 p.m., reached
Port Pirie in it at noon next day, left
there on the Trans train about 1 p.m., and
arrived’ Kalgoorlie early the following
afternoon with an ample recovery margin
before the Westland Express left for
Perth.
There was nothing “very special ’ about
the timing, and the only extraordinary
thing about it was that, of the odd 250
persons who used that service weekly in
each direction over a period of at least
four years, not one has sufficient interest
or pride of achievement to support an
exile who was doing no more than pass
through.— Transporticus (Singapore).
Crime Could Pay
It is surprising that there is still one
price that hasn’t changed in years: the
price of being bad, or, specifically, fines
and costs imposable by law. In 1908,
for instance, a butcher was fined £5 for
selling adulterated sausage-meat; in 1952
it’s still a fiver. Unions, as another
example, have been “bringing” £5OO for
a long time. Many more examples
could be cited from court reports.
Today living-costs have certainly
forged ahead, leaving fines far behind,
and in that light it would seem that the
fines no longer act as a deterrent. Indeed,
providing there is a sufficient incentive,
the possibility of a consequent penalty
is regarded as trifling.
When, eventually, authority moves to
alter that state of affairs, it would do
well to take a leaf from the regulations
governing the collection of excise and
Customs duties, paying particular atten-
tion to those commodities whereon duty
is charged “ad valorem or a (specified)
sum, whichever is the greater.”—R. B. M.
(N.S.W.),
74|- Per Cent.
The method of fixing the selling-prices
of galvanised-pipe fittings leads to
absurdities that must delight our
bureaucrats. I have an invoice for a fit-
ting which shows a basic price plus a
surcharge of 74| per cent. A surcharge
of 75 per cent, would, of course, be too
simple.
The same actuarial minds that
approved such an exact, if incongruous,
figure as 74f per cent., and no doubt
police its application with due rigor,
would do well to estimate the cost to the
hardware merchants of having their sales
and clerical staffs work out such fantastic
percentages, and the cost to the public
of having them officially fixed and
maintained.
Our Ministers, instructed to effect
economies in their departments, should
see to elimination of all such absurdities.
—Sinbad (N.S.W.).
Serving the Servants
It is a curious thing how an urgent
and vital public utility or service can,
with the passing years, change its entire
function. Consider light and power.
Those services were acquired by the Gov-
ernment to prevent any monopolistic
exploitation of the people, and any
extension or alteration was always to be
made with the comfort of the public in
view. Any economy effected was
definitely for the same end.
The original motives seem to have
been lost, however, and the belief seems
to have grown that these services are
maintained purely in the interests of a
huge and often top-heavy body of wage-
takers. In this distorted atmosphere all
additions, extensions, costs and so forth
appear to be decided from the employees’
point of view. If the comfort of the
public conflicts with the code of rules
created by the employees, then the
comfort of the public is brushed aside.
Threatened continuously by the strike-
weapon and all the other irritating and
uneconomical paraphernalia of militant
unionism, the management of these
services is now a wholehearted endeavor
to make things easy for the employee.
And so public services developed to serve
the public are now nothing less than
benevolent institutions to serve the
servant. —F. J. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 167
Across.
I—Mortally plump associate. (T>
s—Mount everything by a Victorian
town. (7)
9 It offers some illumination to
hurry the featherweights. (9)
10— Clean up a whelp with a mous-
tache. (3-2)
11— Composer of “Giselle” is quite
an original fellow. (4)
12— Lake plant changing in a cover.
(8)
14— Again stains the radical affirma-
tion. (6)
15— They smell. (5)
18— Neckwear end of a neck-and-neck
struggle? (3)
19— Tease in store. (5)
21 —Rosevear visits a Cambridgeshire
city exclusively. (6)
24—Athletic contest in the family of
economist John Stuart provides
water-power. (4-4)
26 —Crack utensils on the way back.
(4)
28 —East and a half-score swallowed.
(5)
29 — Brief rest baseballer or the waist-
line of brief pants. (9)
30 — They show rainfall. (7)
31 — Full toe (anagram). (7)
| Down.
1 — Nine gallons of tree relations. (6)
2 Will turn prench and a floral
organ before tea. (9)
3 Pacify one by a berceuse. (7)
4 Spanish artist muddled this sys-
tem of philosophy. (4)
5 Acrimony flier to name the 19th
letter. (10)
6 Turn in a thousand items for
qnglers and hunters. (7)
7 Italian artist gives cheek to some
confused type. (5)
8— Paves serpent stops. (8)
13 —Ties across (anagram). (10)
16 — Seaman has a fit of peevishness
about an ingredient of gun-
nowder. (9)
17 — Scuttles a tent-dweller in a
steamer. (8)
20 —Holy cooker is unfamiliar. (7)'
22 —Adders appreciate this tall infant.
(4. 3)
23 —Vehicle friend of the wrist urges
Capone to make petty criticisms,
(6)
25 —Plenty to finish a table-game. (5)
27 —Italian lake firm with a mous-
tache. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 166


fs
d
. :•■••• •' .■■■: ' ****v
-
#K'-;
t
mm
8g&
M
a,
■
W
'
::fe
The Parthenon, the most beautiful building in the world*
at Athens. The above is a personal photograph by
Mr. H. Hastings Peering on his recent trip to .Greece.
OMPARISON between the measurements of the
ancient Parthenon, beautiful example of Greek archi-
tecture, and the Hastings Peering Building reveals
surprising similarities in measurements.
Lengths of both buildings are approximately the same
—roughly 223 feet; heights are both approximately 80
feet; areas (of single floor) i acre.
Within the area of the Hastings Peering Building, de-
signed by Mi, H. Hastings Peering with Ms architect
and builder, are six floors of a half-acre each, making
a total floor area of 3 acres.
The vision which inspired Mr. Peering's conception of
perfection in a modem service station has been amply
justified by its efficiency in operation!
V4.
V
V
I
0
I
Hastings Deerlng's, William Street Sydney, Australia—the most
modem service station in the world.
