

fs
\
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
m
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE; Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL,
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“BILLY” HUGHES BY LOW
“Xhe Bulletin,’* Vol. 73—No. 3795
Wednesday, November 5, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
IN STATELY HINCHINGBROOKE CROMWELL WAS KIDNAPPED BY A MONKEY
HINCHINGBROOKE, near Huntingdon, the palatial home of the Earl of
Sandwich, stands upon the site of a Benedictine nunnery which was
acquired in 1538 by Richard Cromwell, whose son, Henry, converted it into a
residence. Portions of the old nunnery walls still exist, and support the Tudor
tiles and half-timbering of the Domestic Wing.
Henry Cromwell was noted for his lavishness, and on one occasion had
the expensive privilege of entertaining Queen Elizabeth I, who knighted him.
Sir Henry’s second son, Robert, became the father of the Protector, Oliver
Cromwell (1599-1658) and it was at Hinchingbrooke that the youthful
Cromwell, aged 4, met and punched on the nose Charles Stuart, who later
became King Charles I. Tradition also declares that when Cromwell was a
baby he was carried up on to the roofs of Hinchingbrooke by a monkey,
which later brought him down again uninjured after the household had made
unsuccessful attempts at rescue.
In 1627 the house was sold to Sir Sydney Montagu, who married Paulina
Pepys, great-aunt to Samuel Pepys. Their son, Edward, was the First Earl
of Sandwich, from whom the present owner, Viscount Hinchingbrooke, is
descended. During the Civil War, King Charles twice visited Hinchingbrooke;
once when he captured it, and again when he stayed there as a prisoner.
Sir Edward Montagu rose to be joint Commander of the Fleet, and played a
leading part in the Restoration; it was through his influence that Samuel
Pepys, the famous Diarist, became Clerk of the Acts in the Admiralty.
The origin of the sandwich is attributed to the fourth Earl of Sandwich
(1718-1792), whose favourite occupation was gambling, and who, in order to
save more time for his card games, invented the sandwich. On two occasions
he acted as First Lord of the Admiralty, and he sponsored the voyages ot
Captain Cook, who named the Sandwich Islands after him.
The many magnificent rooms at Hinchingbrooke, which are open to the
public, are filled with treasures of historic or artistic interest connected with
its eventful past. An extensive collection of pictures and personal relics ot
Oliver Cromwell are to be seen in the Entrance Hall, and in the Great Dining
Room is a first edition of Captain Cook’s Voyages.


A MANY-SPLENDOURED
THING, by Han Suyin
A poignant love story told against
the background of life today in
Hongkong and a changing China.
25/6 (post lid.)
AUSTRALIAN LAND-
SCAPES IN MINIATURE
45 reproductions of paintings in
colour by top Australian artists.
Text written by Roy H. Goddard.
12/6 (post 4d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Ca.tlereagh St., Sydney !: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.X.
The best & most convenient plan for Book & Stationery Presents
DYMOCK’S CHRISTMAS TOKENS
cpltoT; ° ur special
Ch °° ,e * fr ° m OUr stock the books or
Parents choosing for a family or the business head for a erouo will
promptly sent our monthly and Christmas catalogues to select from
Start n ° W ~ We wiU l °y~ b y and on the requested date with greetings.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. Phone 8L3611.
E3HSSI
ni
at HOME
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL'
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.352) n Age
STORY FROM TONGA
Though the inexperienced writer often
enough thinks nothing of plunging into
hundreds or perhaps thousands of lines
when some epic theme fills his mind or
when he feels obliged to announce his
solution to the mystery of the universe
it is really an act of considerable daring
to attempt, as Robert D. Fitz Gerald has
done in Between Two Tides (Angus and
Robertson), a long poem in blank-verse,
running into nearly 3000 lines.
In blank-verse there is no click of
rhyme or rounding of stanza to prove
that the poet is “right” ; he stands alone
and unprotected in the territory of Shak-
speare and Milton with only such im-
ponderables as interior fluency, sonority,
economy, vigor of speech-rhythm or
richness of language, the ear’s and the
mind’s recognition of an authentic and
original poetic utterance to prove his right
to stand there.
A few lines from the scene where Will
Mariner is falling in love with Micaela in
South America (the girl who becomes
Mariner’s symbol for the unattainable
and who is the subject of Norman Lind-
say’s decorative frontispiece) will illus-
trate the subtle felicities of the poetry
in Between Two Tides; such half-rhymes
and assonances and alliterations as
“leaped,” “limping” and “lamer,” with
“fiished” to keep company with “ditches,”
carrying an effect of rhyme through the
blank-verse: —-
—dancing eyes
that the governor’s daughter talked with
across ditches
not to be leaped by limping English words
fished out by lamer Spanish the other side;
and the conclusion of that same incident,
with all the ferocity of time in its last
line, may serve to indicate how the sober
and careful writing, always alive with the
impression of natural speech and dis-
tinguished for its masculine firmness, will
suddenly leap both into lyricism and
drama:
But that had been
early in the voyage. Life cannot treasure up
little things, pretty things, setting them aside
to be lived again. Here was a meeting-place,
a meeting-hour and gone; not to be picked
up—
somewhat like that gold buckle from her
shoe,
“which,” so she said in giving, “you’ll
not keep long.”
(Little things, pretty things!) And indeed
that too
grinds under broken coral at Hapai.
But the importance of Between Two
Tides, once its quality of verse-craft has
been recognised, is that it is a narrative-
poem. It tells a story.
The theme, by a coincidence which
makes a pleasant bridge across the seas
and the centuries, is one which long ago
attracted Byron: the story of Will
Mariner —an oddly appropriate name for
a seaman —who was shipwrecked at Tonga
early in the 19th century and who, being
then hardly more than a boy, was taken
prisoner by the natives while all the rest
of his ship’s company were massacred.
He became the ward of the principal
chieftain Finau, taught him to use the
ship’s cannon in his wars against the
other tribes, and eventually escaped to
England—to be drowned, in his old age,
in the Thames; a scene with which Fitz-
Gerald both opens and closes his tightly-
constructed and ingeniously-rounded
narrative.
At its simplest it is a story of South
Seas adventure ; almost like Coral Island
when the natives fall on the unsuspecting
ship’s company with their war-clubs ; and
with moments of the charm of Stevenson
as when, a little before the massacre, the
captain is annoyed with the island girls
tempting the sailors ashore:
It was those women! Damn their lascivious
looks
and their bold eyes, that confident upright
carnage—
white women didn’t walk like that! They
had
light skins, straight hair; as if it were not
enough
that they should be half-naked yet unaware,
all feminine and know it. That rogue James
Kelly
had jumped to the rail with a knife. “By
God,” he cried,
111 run the first bastard through that tries
to stop me!”
A poem like this, telling a story,
marching straight into the territory so
long left to the novelist, seems to me to
be of the utmost importance in Australian
poetry ; indeed, in English writing as a
whole; for I suppose it can be taken for
granted that, so long as art is not sacri-
ficed, poetry should appeal to the widest
possible audience ; and I have long be-
lieved that it was the turning-away from
narrative-poetry in Eliot’s “The Waste
Land” and Ezra Pound’s “Cantos,” fol-
lowed by a general descent into private
mysticism, that has made poetry in our
time so unpopular with the public, so
narrow and meagre an instrument of
civilisation.
I don’t mean by this that I personally
dislike or even wish to criticise, in itself,
“The Waste Land” ; on the contrary, 1
have enjoyed, for its distinctive music, its
thin vigor of language and its climate of
vision, everything that Eliot has written;
and, of course, Murder in the Cathedral
is the poetry of humanity, I have even
dipped into the “Cantos” with some mild
pleasure until the irruption of Major
Douglas and the A-plus-B theorem have
driven me sadly away. But I think that
all the bloodless, obscure, surrealist and
mystic writing of this century is essentially
minor, of the margin ; for if you look at
the great central tradition from Homer
to Browning everything is based on the
narrative.
tt The “Iliad” is primarily a story. The
“Aineid” is a story. Dante’s epic is the
story of his love for Beatrice. Cross to
England and Chaucer is al! story ; Spenser
is story ; Shakspeare’s plays are story in
dramatic form ; “Paradise Lost” is story ;
“The Prelude” is Wordsworth’s auto-
biography ; Coleridge rests on “The
Ancient Mariner”; “Don Juan” and
Endymion” are stories; even in the
wildest flights of Shelley’s luminous
imagination he is, however vaguely, chas-
ing the ghost of a narrative, whether in
“The Witch of Atlas,” “The Revolt of
Islam” or “Prometheus Unbound” ; “The
Idylls of the King”—so close are the
days when a poet could be paid by his
publisher a retainer of £lO,OOO a year—
is story; and “The Ring and the Book,”
when Browning comes into his own, will
be recognised as the greatest narrative-
poem in the English language since
Shakspeare wrote his plays.
■The public, it is surely apparent, de-
mands a narrative to carry it through
the perilous waters of poetry. Given a
narrative, it will swallow anything else
m the process—Shelley’s mysticism,
Wordsworth’s love of nature or Milton’s
astounding theology. Without a narrative
look at the sales of poetry today.
And I see no reason why the public’s
most innocent demand should not be
satisfied ; in the first place, because as a
professor of ancient history from Oxford
once said to me, after succeeding in
making my small daughter laugh by 'blow-
ing out his cheeks like a bullfrog, “After
all, one’s final value is to be an enter-
tainer” ; and, perhaps another way of
saying the same thing, because the writing
of narrative-poetry nearly always implies,
of necessity, the study of human char-
acter, which is not only of the greatest
interest to the public but, with Shakspeare
and Homer as evidence, the greatest of
all themes for the writer.
Australian poetry has, in fact, been
moving for some years towards the narra-
tive: in Kenneth Slessor’s “Captain
Dobbin” and “Five Visions of Captain
Cook,” Fitz Gerald’s own “Heemskirck
Shoals” and “Fifth Day,” Francis Webb’s
brilliant studies of Leichhardt and Ben
Boyd, William Hart-Smith’s beautiful
Columbus sequence. The significance
here of Between Two Tides is that it is
not a step towards narrative-poetry but
an arrival, the thing itself; not a series
of snapshots of a personality or glimpses
of an action, but a whole action —indeed
two whole actions, for it is Finau’s story
even more than it is Mariner’s—told in
its entirety.
Of course Fitz Gerald is aiming at some-
thing much deeper than a simple
adventure-story of nut-brown maidens,
shipwrecked sailors and murderous
savages. From one point of view the
poem is a philosophical essay on human
character; a salute to vigor of action
and pride of bearing whether in leaders
who* are born superior, “chiefs because
chiefs” or in
peasants or fishermen —men of all ranks
whose pride might equal his own;
a salute, indeed, to the whole of life, as,
with all its turbulence of love and hate,
it surges forward “like a wave break-
ing” :
And under longings
man was eternal unrest that no place
satisfies,
content never overtakes and no year ends;
for it is earth itself and earth’s vitality
working within the bloodstream. We are
earth’s b100d....
But it is also an essay on how one
outstanding man, who might have been
Gassar or Alexander but happened here
to be Finau, bore himself in the midst
of that turbulence when history left him
alone and supreme for a moment “be-
tween two tides” ; a leader of men (who
is still a symbol of any man in the struggle
of life), coming into power through revo-
lution, having some vision of justice and
order, corrupted by power or by his own
savage nature into murdering his brother,
retaining something of his vision still,
and in the end destroyed by the Tongan
priests after they have poisoned his
daughter . . . and so the poem is essay
and story simultaneously.
In its philosophical aspect the poem
seems to me wholly admirable; and, be-
cause of its narrative continuity, more
approachable, more fluent than any of
Fitz Gerald’s previous long-poems. The
thought is resolute, mature, full of pro-
foundly wise reflections on the funda-
mental human problems. There is
a passage about old-age on page 7
which would stand up very firmly
to comparison with some celebrated
observations on the same theme by Yeats
and (in the “Quartets”) Eliot; and in the
concluding section the meditations on the
spirit of adventure and on tasks left un-
done or decisions doubtfully taken—
You cannot escape the emptiness you left
with me;
it is ahead of you somewhere—
are equally impressive.
From the narrative point of view there
are some weaknesses. After the splendid
opening sequence, the second part,
“Shadows Under the Trees,” is rather
flat, too much like potted history: it
should have been seen through Finau’s
eyes when, as he fought his way to power,
exulted in maintaining it and drifted to-
wards the treacherous murder of his
brother, it would have been deep and
exciting. None of the other sections—
there are five altogether—has this flat-
ness ; all are rich with thought or vivid
with drama ; but their dramatic impetus
is blunted to some extent because Will
Mariner hardly emerges as a character in
the round. As a white man becoming a
Tongan, two men in the one skull, “look-
ing differently through the same knot-
holes out of that room,” he is an interest-
ing subject for Fitz Gerald’s thought and
analysis, and the outline of his adventures
is interesting; but he never really stands
up in the book as a living figure.
But these weaknesses are overshadowed
and made largely negligible by the domin-
ating figure of Finau, who does indeed
stride alive through the book, a subtle
and powerful character, clearly visualised,
attractive in his energy and gaiety, fascin-
atmg in his treacheries, moving anc
tragic in his final defeat:
But still the child grew worse; and there
was pain
to remind him of the gods. And pain in
his face
was the mark of pain in his heart; till the
child’s death
ended appeasement of the gods but not
the frenzy
that beat bat-wings about him after that
time
and stretched out over days the dead girl’s
burial
with rites more twisted than the wrung heart
of grief,
and sports and combats which he would
join, and feastings
he was too stricken to join. These scenes,
grotesque
beyond even piety, mocked the priests;
but under them was knowledge of guilt
and failure—
the beginnings of surrender to dread of the
dark.
, . t . Towering among them,
glaring lus way to dominance over rivals,
lighting, scheming, dissembling like verv
heartbreak,
always there was Finau. Impossible to
believe—
as impossible as this planking—that he was
dead!
It is likely enough that Fitz Gerald,
when he develops his powers of character-
isation and reconciles more completely his
philosophical and narrative interests, will
write a better poem than Between Two
hoes; but as the book stands, with its
minor weaknesses and its fine verse-
craft, its thought, its energy, its
powerful portrait of Finau—a re-
markable achievement to go so deeply
into the native mind—its narrative move-
ment and, especially, its structural com-
pleteness, it still seems to me, take it all
round, the best long-poem that has yet
been written in Australia.
D. S.
The Peregrinations of
Peter Pinney
Perhaps the biggest surprise of Peter
Finney’s extraordinary travel-book Dust
on My Shoes (Angus and Robertson) is
that travel-writing so sophisticated and
so highly-finished should have been done
by an Australian who hung by his heels
as a schooiooy irorn the top of the arcl
oi bydney harbor bridge (on the dust-
flap).
Apart from that, the first thing that
strikes you about the book is that the
itinerary, shown on the endpapers, follows
the soft underbelly of Russia, from
Salonika through Turkey, Irak, Iran,
Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and Assam
to Kaiewa in Burma: which is all interest-
ing country.
However’ it would be a mistake to sup-
pose that Mr. Finney’s interests are
merely acrobatic and political. There is
also the string of girls he left behind him
on the trip all beautiful, all carefully
selected—for he never takes the first one
that he happens to meet in a new town —
all full of vivacity and conversation until,
just when a modern novel would be-
come tense and gripping, down comes the
iron curtain, and Mr. Finney is on his
travels again.
Passing over the pretty barmaid in
league with a pickpocket in a Salonika
tavern, who had no reason to love our
author when he knocked down the pick-
pocket and gave the American seaman
back his wallet, and the Greek girl
Antonia who was in love with Constan,
a fighter with the Communist under-
ground, there was the younger daughter
of the family with whom he was staying
in a country village of Greece, who crept
to him in the darkness of the bam where
they had all taken refuge from the civil
war; there was Sachide of the “petal-
pink lips and soulful eyes” who led him
through veritable Arabian Nights of
adventure in Istanbul, culminating with a
sudden shock in a rich room down wind-
ing passageways from a Turkish carpet-
bazaar ; there was Alea, who conversed
with him in the style of a Coward heroine
in the red-light district of Adana . . .
There was Zoe, the Armenian, with
whom Finney and his Dutch friend,
Marchand, shared a hotel-room in Bagh-
dad ; there was the shameless young lady
{Continued on inside back cover)


Her age ? Who
with "PALACE” women
%
over 30 can look younger
Our new '‘Palace” Hair Restorer will restore former colour
and lustre to your grey hair. This is definitely not a miracle
treatment, but a product of chemical research, painstakingly
tested for accuracy and safety. It has been developed to give you
new hair beauty without the great expense of most treatments.
It is safe, clean and easy to apply. A colourless restorer, it
imparts a natural appearance to the hair. With grey hair banished
this “easy-as-brushing” way, you will look younger, feel
more confident, be more attractive. Because you'll look
younger you will certainly
feel younger! This wonder-
rams
11l
dfsd
ful, new “Palace” Hair Restorer has been designed not only
for women but for men, too. And remember, “Palace” will
effectively treat all types of grey hair, frbm hair that was formerly
Red or Blonde to hair that was Brown or Blacjc. For a more
youthful appearance, for more confidence, use “Palace” Hair
Restorer. Priced at 7/3 per bottle.
"PALACE" HAIR RESTORER IS
SO EASY TO USE AS SHOWN IN ABOVE PHOTOGRAPHS
■
sm
m
m
m
m
PaUct
Hair
Restorer
ki«*•*►
2 Brush the hair and shampoo
it thoroughly. Make sure it is
non-greasy and perfectly dry.
2 Mix the restorer in strength
necessary for your colour hair.
Apply lightly and sparingly with
a soft, clean brush and dry the
hair slowly, not in the sun. When
it is dry, wash thoroughly.
0 See the new lustre, colour
“Palace'’ has brought to your
hair.
« «
*
sr
-D
W
JJt
r
r *\
Sdi
Ur
i i.OTOMACH
p ncs(Ki|| ( i M
•'Hcp/r ini' inuir's n l mr»c»’l ,, ‘*
%inoi*ii Horiiii <■> (i-itu!"";
I*s <• *t>r< *VOCi-\ ftOCM W/* <* , P n| t
!\Ewiikr I
Ni'i'ortl.ri’rtll
c l\ COOi’e HA HIM ON <w O”i
Oo P «mfc u\n ? If/> A/rtl'l
•M <-vili |Kimmlil|l MOi’milii
? N !Ml Si I, AI* ( wOrtHV
TO vry <2 t H/VJI
cs, s s
r *-‘i> V.O«Ow.f(/l
,c, n <>e wfu «ic«ai /hi out
.thg-oih oei> Pin (I(»i>i;i-ni'
WCHHV rtctrl 0L , o M/7 <”>»■»»• * *
oc /U.C. ntcrto 111 ll‘> 1 /
o/tr ,ii»i>i l i‘'i
t akc i r«ni i.Ti><irs' 3i‘ ’ ’’
horbeuk®
SftQD'NEY'
. has brought relief to thousands
Dr. McKenzie’s Stomach & Nerve Tonic, 3/- bottle
A tonic made to an accurate prescription
by the famous Doctor Stephen McKenzie.
It coats the stomach, helps the liver to
work, and relaxes the nerves. Wonderful
for all indigestion, dyspepsia and sleep-
lessness.
■ißii
gd
seS
S"sa
■.... J
lilll'l
FRENCH
CORN
CURE
2/4 L__
A world famous cure that con-
tains no harmful ingredients.
After several applications of the
ointment, foot callouses and
hard skin disappear and corns
are painlessly removed by the
roots.
.ft
m
m
yea**
-
"PALACE"
YEAST TABLETS
2/6 per 100
A general tonic to re-
store vitality and zest
For indigestion, constipation,
“Palace" pure yeast tablets give
you that feeling of well-being!
lj<u
m
?**F
NASON'S
POMADE
Grey Hair Restorer
Dandruff Remedy
5/4 jar
Olive oil, lanolin and other natural
beneficial oils are' scientifically
blended into this hair dressing.
“Nason’s” promotes growth and
completely removes all dandruff!


In Peacetime.. . and Now
THE LAND OF
MORNING CALM
By MABEL WALN SMITH
I J OREA—or Chosen, “The Land of
rv Morning Calm” —is somewhat
| y smaller than Great Britain, arid a
peninsula. Mountains are scat-
tered over it as though sifted from a
huge pepperpot, and they divide the land
into two parts: a flat, narrow, fertile
eastern strip ; a rich, hilly, western sec-
tion. The Diamond Mountains, named
for the diamond-like stones found there
and used in making spectacles, are the
source of the lovely, clear-flowing Han
River, the “river of Korea.”
Legends of the Korean aborigines are
charming, but mythical. People lived;
here when Ki-ja introduced the elements
of Chinese civilisation in the twelfth
century b.c., and immigrations from near-
by countries result in a variety of types
among the Koreans today. All hair, how-
ever, is brought to a fashionable black
by oil and lampblack.
How enchanting a country it can be
in peace-time I found when I went to
Korea from China, where L was then
living. Having arrived at the border by
ship and train, I read from my Guide
Book: “The treaties of 1883 opened to
the world this Hermit Country you are
entering, since when its political up-
heavals and possible destinies have
attracted world - wide interest.... 600
years ago Seoul became the capital.
Every man who can pay for board and
lodging on the road trudges to this impor-
tant city once or twice a year.”
I trudged to Seoul.
Next morning, leaving behind me the
modern banks, offices, big stone Govern-
ment buildings and tourist hotel where
I had rested, I delved into the older
part of Seoul to the house of Kim, my
Korean host for the day. Here are
little communities where manufacturing
is carried on in the one-room homes. The
front of the house is removed during
business hours, and articles of trade are
placed around the three sides of the open
room. ■ The merchant sits on the floor
in the midst of his wares. The customer
stands in the street. Ex-
cited words fly about as
prices are decided upon.
We wandered through
Girdle Town, Pot Town
and Hatmakers’ Row.
Food is eaten twice
per day in Korea. When
heavy smoke begins to
rise from holes in the
ground by the sides of
houses you know even-
ing approaches; the
biggest meal of the day
is being cooked. These
holes, which answer for
chimneys, also send heat
up under the houses.
Light fires were being
started to cook the
rather late morning rice when I left
Seoul for the Diamond Mountains.
Choanji was to be my destination,
because that and Onseiri are the places to
stop in while exploring these stimulating
regions.
A crowd solely masculine saw me off
on the road which leads out of the city.
Ever since the murder in 1895 of re-
sourceful Queen Min, the last strong
native ruler, “Outside Sources” have
taken turns at wielding the power and
energy in Korea, and those Governments
have selected few people for employment.
Most any time, therefore, in any dis-
trict free of actual fighting, an immacu-
late, white-clad Korean gentleman will
adjust his tiny black horse-hair hat, fold
a pickled vegetable and a ball of rice
into oiled paper, reach inside the hut for
his umbrella—a necessary precaution,
since his clothes are glued and not sewn
together—and cheerfully lead for miles
down a hidden trail.
Having delivered you safely at your
destination, he will bow graciously,
waving aside the suggestion of remunera-
tion —unless he has been definitely hired
to carry luggage—and disappear to hunt
up his friends in that vicinity.
As I walked along I saw that, although
there is a big-game-hunting forest in the
deep-snow far north, and a goldmiriing
region in the flat-plain east, Korea is
predominantly a farming country. The
farmers live in villages to cultivate their
millet, oats, beans, vegetables and sugar-
cane. And rice, which is their most
valued crop.
The village is the unit of social organi-
sation. The village Elders settle quarrels,
see that taxes are levied fairly, and give
advice. When they say the rice crop is
ready for threshing, bundles of it are
carried on the backs of oxen to the
threshing-floor—the most level spot in the
village —and it is threshed by hand flail,
because this leaves the straw unbroken.
The farmer’s house is thatched with rice-
straw ; his grain-sacks, rope and shoes
for his family are also made from straw.
What the village medicine-man knows
is: The soothing qualities of teas made
from herbs, roots and bark ; the phos-
phate content of tiger-claws, magpie-
bones and deer-horns ; and the value of a
counter-irritant.
“Look!” said Kim, who, upon learn-
ing that I had taken a wrong road on
my way to the mountains, had
courteously hurried to my side. He took
off his hat to show a scar on the top
of his head. “When I was a baby I died
and the doctor burnt a patch on my head
and I came back to life.”
There are few old-maids in Korea, and
only 800 surnames. The family is con-
sidered more important than the indivi-
dual. The costume of the peasant
woman is particularly suited for mother-
hood: a full skirt falls from waist to
ankle; a short Eton jacket stops but
little below the armpits, leaving the
breasts exposed. And the beautiful
upright carriage of the body lends grace
to every movement.
Arrived finally at Choanji, I was met
by Sung-Yo and his wife. They took
me to their home —a hamlet nestled
amongst the overhanging rocks of the
Diamond Mountains.
It was pitch-dark outside in the pine-
woods that night. We ate in the
Sung-Yo kitchen, a miracle of cleanliness.
Mother earth made the floor, and we sat
on small floor-mats. The smell of
“kirnchie,” fermented pepper sauce,
drifted toward us as individual tables
about 14 inches in diameter and 12 inches
high were set down. On each table
was a covered wooden bowl of steaming
rice, a dish of hot fish-soup, plates of
cold pickled cabbage and turnip, egg
strips browned in oil, crisp seaweed, and
cakes with pine-nuts.
Thick mattresses were spread out in
an adjoining room. Artists with old
Korean musical instruments were stop-
ping the night at the near-by inn. The
notes of their lute yearned and crooned
about our house. Heat came hospitably
up through our stone floor. The sighing
of the pine-trees murmured “sleep” . . .
I knew nothing further until 4 a.m,,
when the mellow tones of wind bells, all
sizes, from the mountain monasteries,
announced gently that “prayer is better
than sleep.” Then, in a softly-spoken
conversation with my hostess, I learned
about Korea’s religious feelings: Korean
morality is based on the teachings of
Confucius ; but Christianity, Shaminism
and Buddhism also are popular.
Korea’s rainy season begins the middle
of July and lasts until the end of August.
The Land of Morning Calm then is
like a bereaved widow. She trembles,
sobs, and bursts into an uncontrolled
flood of tears. Tiny lakes swell and
push rocks crashing down over their
brim. Innocent little streams enlarge
to raging torrents tearing down the
mountainside, measuring out death to
man, tree and beast. Suddenly the sun
emerges. A radiant sun in a blue sky.
Next day comes the downpour again.
When I was caught by the deluge I
was stopping at an inn on Biriho, the
4350 ft. peak on the mountain trail from
Choanji to Onseiri. A wind had sprung
up in the night: I lay listening to the
heavy rain. Presently there came a
special rattle on my door. My guide
came in. With the broad smile with
which all Orientals announce bad news,
he informed me that bridges, iron lad-
ders, swinging ropes —in fact, everything
we needed to get safely down the moun-
tainside—had washed away.
Hastily I put Korean string footwear
over my European shoes, and stumbled
along a trail no better than a torrent-
bed. Angry water, angular rocks and
sharp tree-roots tore my clothes, tore my
flesh, hurtled me on to my face in the
mud.
Guides from the inn at Onseiri finally
retrieved me, dried my clothes, patched
up my scratches, anointed my bruised
spirits, and the next day walked me six
miles down a valley to where the train-
track to Seoul had not washed out.
Just as my train started off the sun
came out in a clear blue sky. A heavenly
day. Much too heavenly for me to be
leaving this delightful mountain, tree and
farmland country Korea in peace-
time . . .
Today comes a letter from my sister,
a war-correspondent in Korea, flashing
her vivid picture of that country with
peace in abeyance;
“Trials conducted by Koreans against
Koreans are quick and cruel. Through
the streets of Seoul I see the condemned,
tied together, pass from courthouse to
jail and from jail to execution-ground.
Women are allowed to keep their babies
with them in court, in prison, and at the
place of death until the mask is on.
There is no one to tend them. Often
the baby goes back into the prison yard,
joining a growing throng.
“On Thursday reporters went to the
place of execution. I went because I
wanted, if possible, to get the babies
before they were returned to the prison
and shut in. There was a young woman
—tall, slender, with rare beauty. She
had her child in the shawl-sling tied
round her waist, in the way that Korean
mothers carry their little ones. She was
third in the death-line.
“Her time had come. The baby had
not been taken away from her. The
blindfold was put on her eyes. The
guard asked if she had any word to say
why she should not die. The proud young
Korean woman lifted her head toward
the sky and began to sing—the century-
old, the everywhere-known Korean love-
song : ‘Love has no barriers. Love is
eternal. The love of a woman for her
man endureth forever.’ They let her
finish her song; a prison woman then
took her baby and later I got it for the
Koredn orphanage that cares for such as
these.
“The mother was now ready. ‘I am not
a traitor,’ said she. ‘I love a man who
betrayed you and escaped you._ In his
place I die.’ In his place shots killed her,
she fell by the open grave.. .. ”
The Art of Procrastination
'““7’ HERE is far too little apprecia-
f tion of the benefits that can
y i flow from procrastination.
Had, for instance, Ferdinand
and Isabella sparred-up the where-
withal on Columbus’s first impor-
tunities, instead of humming and ha-
ing over it for several years, the great
navigator might have run into a willy-
willy or a waterspout and finished-up
somewhere near the North Pole,
instead of having a comparatively
smooth voyage to the New World. It
is more than probable that it is to the
altogether admirable procrastinatory
qualities displayed by Ferdy and
Bella that the world today owes the
inestimable boons of the juke-box,
chewing-gum, Johnnie Ray, gridiron
football, soap-operas, hillbilly songs
and the expression “Yuh kaint do
this to me I”
Only a naturally keen awareness
of its pitfalls saved me, when I got
my first job as an office-boy, from
becoming a victim of the “Do It
Now” school. The boss was a stickler
for punctuality, getting things done
on the dot, and other idiosyncrasies.
On the wall in front of my
desk was a sign in big letters
“do it NOW ! ” About 11 o’clock
on my'first day I was sitting with my
feet up on the desk eating my lunch
—I had only had four meat-pies a
good hour earlier ; was consequently
famished—when the boss came out
of his office, saw me and hit the
roof, demanding to know why I
didn’t wait till one o’clock.
I indicated the slogan, pointing out
that I was going to wait, but that the
written injunction was so peremptory
and unmistakably clear that I felt I
would have been disobeying a rule
had I not started demolishing the pile
of sandwiches forthwith. He seemed
quite shaken by my logic.
My growing conviction that there
was something in procrastination was
greatly strengthened later. I had been
sent out on an urgent message, and
decided to put off going back to the
office until I had seen the newsreel
through the second time. When I
did get back it was to find that the
boss, hurrying out the door to keep
an appointment on time, had slipped
on the step, fallen and trodden on his
ear, and had to be taken to hospital
to get it stitched. I was justly
annoyed at not having further put off
my return, for I could have seen the
show through three times without
having been missed.
Determined to give my natural
bent for procrastination full play, I
finally joined the Public Service,
and they were delighted to learn of
the progress I had already made in
procrastinating. It meant so much
less training I would need. In no
time I learned how to write “Re-
submit” on a file or drop it in a
drawer.
It was I, I may claim with some
modest pride, who thought up the
slogan that is now generally accepted
as sound practice in the service: “If a
letter is hung onto long enough it
automatically answers itself.”
Once I eventually got around to
answering a letter from another
department regarding the urgent
supply of paper-clips. Mine had
opened with “Referring to your letter
of December 10 in reply to mine of
Feb. 18” Six months later I
received a reply saying they couldn’t
trace their December 10 letter. I
was puzzled, for I was sure that was
the date. A few months later the
records branch cleared up the
mystery—it had been the December
of three years before,
Surprisingly, I was put off for put-
ting off putting something off.
Usually you get promoted for this,
1 think it must have been political
influence. Anyway, I never heard of
the business of Government grinding
to a stop because letters are kept five
months before being answered,
But the precepts I embraced then
have stood by me ever since, and
nowhere more than in the home,
To the wife’s reiterated “What
about that spackling of the hole in
the lounge-room wall that you were
going to do last year?” my invari-
able answer is “Yes, I must.” My
brother-in-law is a plasterer and one
day he’ll cast up and be kidded into
doing it.
A couple of year- ago I got some
bookshelves half-made. My daughter
is now going out with an apprentice
cabinet-maker, and my hopes have
risen high,
Christmas presents are of course
m y speciality. Usually I put ’em all
on the lay-by about November after
having intended to do it in July. I
get them out about five minutes
before the store closes on Christmas
Eve. Last Christmas I put off getting
the wife’s present until beyond the
last minute, and had to finish up giv-
ing her the money. She also has got
into my ways, and kept putting off
buying something with it. Eventually
it was used to pay the dentist’s bill.
You observe the advantages, then, of
procrastination.
I may as well confess that this
article should have been written in
time for last week’s issue.
I am now busy putting off writing
next week’s.
Bo.
A Funny Tale
"Sullivan's Whale"
by H. A. Lindsay
The South Australian expert on
Australian fauna and flora humor-
ously tells the story of a whale
washed ashore, and the odd legal
complications which arose when a
canny bush-lawyer crossed the path
of a get-rich-quick butcher.
One of next week’s “Bulletin’
story batch.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November S, 1952
Vol. 73—No. 3795
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams ■ K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521 ;
’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
NO LAND FOR HEROES
The presence of S, M. Bruce in Australia is a reminder
of an unfortunate characteristic of this country: it
has few heroes outside jockeys and racehorses. It
is ceasing to breed statesmen of enduring reputation
because few engaged in its politics can expect to
survive in office unless they are prepared to pander
to the lower intelligences and the. selfishness of the
majority. The number of scoffers and political
mendicants is altogether too great for a country which
so clearly needs to encourage brains and diligence.
S. M. Bruce is a world figure. He has been
one for 30 years. He has the attributes which go
with greatness and with success as a statesman. He
was the son of a man who rose from the ranks. He
had the best education for politics the world could
offer —at a great university devoted to science and
to teaching its students to think rather than to giving
them a babu-cram from textbooks. He might have
gone into the House of Commons in the knowledge
that he was of the calibre of British Prime Ministers ,
but, after having fought and been wounded in World
War I, he preferred to return to his native land. His
personal means put him beyond the temptation of
political emoluments, though he was not a rich man
by commercial standards or those of the leaders of the
Bar.
Coming to Australia unknown to the public he was,
within three and a half years of election for Flinders,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth and, within five, at
the age of 39, Prime Minister. Three years more, and
he was a dominating figure in British Commonwealth
politics. He overshadowed the rest at the Imperial
Conference of 1926, when history was made and the
framework was built for the Statute of Westminster.
He could have remained in England with the promise
of a great career, not only assured but immediate ;
instead, he came back to find the Commonwealth
infiltrated with Red propaganda, happy-go-lucky State
politics and a general playboy attitude to life, quite
out of keeping with times which were becoming grave.
He was among the first to voice a warning of the
coming depression. But his warning was attributed
even by some who were supposed to be his supporters
to base motives and a gloomy mind, and to a supposed
desire to sell the country to the Bank of England. He,
in this period, committed the crime of interrupting a
carefree commercial and industrial honeymoon and
of attempting to make the country work and live
within its means. And eventually, in the wickedest
election campaign probably ever fought in Australia,
when every cinema-screen carried a plea to throw
him out because he proposed to “tax the kiddies’
pictures”—a 3d. amusement tax! —the electorates
routed him and his party ignominiously.
The electors showed that they preferred “Good
old Holloway”—the yearner for the day when the
country would be governed on Marxist principles, the
advocate of the idea that Christianity and Communism
are identical —to Mr. Bruce himself. They preferred
the followers of Lang and Jock Garden, the associates
and urgers of the timber-strike basher-gang, “Red
Ted” Theodore and the Beasleys and Wards,
And to the discredit of the party which Mr. Bruce
had led, it handed the U.A.P. leadership to a sudden
convert from “Labor” whose policy during the follow-
ing years was so flavored with Socialism that it was
sometimes difficult to believe that “Labor” was not
in office.
Mr. Bruce was given office without port-
folio in the Ministry, He did great work for
Australia at Ottawa and in London, where he was
presently satisfied to settle down as High Commis-
sioner, and to serve Australia abroad with great
loyalty and ability in various capacities for the next
20 years.
The democracy of Australia is the most conceited
in the world, and the greatest offence which any Aus-
tralian can commit, be he soldier, politician, writer
or scientist, is to show himself palpably superior in
intellect and capacity to the ruck. The sentence is
normally life exile, unless the culprit is willing to
deliver himself into local bondage as a panderer to
the gullible and a confidence-man of the Golden Age.
Let him prove his quality and try really to lead, and
out he goes as objectionable to the Australian
community.
Perhaps, like Mr. Bruce, to become a Viscount,
chairman of the British Finance Corporation for
Industry and chairman of the World Food Council.
| HAWKERS
AND
TRADESMEN
NEED NOT CALL
MAKING IT HARD
“Australia has been forced to protest against the projected increase in the U.S. tariff on wool and other
Commonwealth exports.”
“But look here, Sam—all I’m trying to do is to earn enough to buy from YOU and pay you back
what I owe.”
The Showing-up of 40 Hours
That financial rod which N.S.W. Premier Cahill feels
being laid so heavily across his back is of his own
Government’s making. Five years ago his then
leader, Mr. McGirr, legislated for a 40-hour week in
advance of the Federal court’s decision, and the
N.S.W. transport system has never recovered.
The war-worn railways alone were immediately
confronted with a deficiency of some 7000 hands,
which exactly reflected the reduction of one-eleventh
in the working week. The regular overtime thus
required annoyed the unions and added heavily to
working expenses. The annual extra cost of the
working week has been admitted at £3,000,000 a year
for N.S.W. railways alone, and for all Australian
railways at £8,650,000. Railway deficits are now
being matched by those of trams and buses in Sydney
and Newcastle. The 40-hour week first set the wage-
cost spiral rising more steeply, and the 19s. “pros-
perity” increase of 1950 in the basic wage reinforced
that influence to produce a prospect which, at the
quarterly adjustment upward last July, was described
by Mr. Cahill as “fearsome.”
Politically he denounced the financial measures
by which the Commonwealth Government aimed at
deflecting labor from non-essential to essential indus-
tries ; administratively he welcomed the influx of some
4000 displaced labor into the labor-starved railways.
These 4000 were only part of the deficiency therein
created by his Government’s 40-hour-week Act. Now
Mr. Cahill has sacked them in the interests of balanc-
ing the railway budget.
Meanwhile the overtime problem is back to where
it was before these 4000 hands were taken on, the
maintenance difficulties are correspondingly sharpened,
and all development-works, including some contracts
for much-needed rolling-stock, are halted by the
impossibility of raising loan money to pay for them.
By dint of abusing loan-investors as greedy and
interest-payments as robbery, protesting against any
increase of interest-rates, though these had manifestly
ceased to attract loan-money, and demanding
wholesale issues of bank-credit without backing and
at an interest-rate purely nominal, the “Labor” party,
from which Mr. Cahill cannot dissociate himself, has
very considerably frightened investors.
After all the poppycock that he talked at the
time of the Ashfield by-election four months ago
about his State being deliberately starved of money
by the Commonwealth Government for political
purposes, the transport unions must have been
astonished to hear Mr. Cahill say to their deputation
last week that reduction of interest-rates was no
answer, and that the Loan Council (including himself)
had recently “decided on an increase in the rate for
semi-governmental bodies so that loans could be
successfully floated.” The same applies to the forth-
coming Commonwealth loan for State Governments,
in a prefatory reference to which Mr. Cahill has
been most circumspect. He told the unions last week:
that railway freight-rates in N.S.W. are already higher
than in any other State, and that he hoped in spue
of the dismissals of railway hands he would be
returned to power after the next elections. That, no
doubt, accounts for the milk in the coconut of his
present attitude. State elections which Mr. Cahill was
going to use against the Commonwealth Government
are now in the category of a meteorological forecast.
With the shocking collapse of city road-transport
organisation, the taxing out of existence of country
road-hauliers whose service is of first importance in
the present stagnation of State services, and the
Government’s banning of private cars from city
streets, Mr. Cahill’s railway problem is only one item
in a dilemma before which all State Governments arc
apparently impotent. They may attempt heroic (that
is, “unpopular”) measures, but these, of which staff
dismissals are a specimen, cannot cure the distress.
Nothing can cure it but abandonment of the insane
insistence upon trying to run them on a 40-hour week
—which, as the Commonwealth Minister for Shipping
and Transport showed in the Senate the other day,
is in practice a working-week of only 33.6 hours. This
is what 40 hours is reduced to in the railways as a
result of other award concessions. When losses result-
ing from go-slow, “foreign orders” and administrative
overstaffing (admitted by. the N.S.W, Transport
Minister) are added to the bill, the task of “making
the service pay” is formidable indeed.
The trouble goes deeper than the railway mess.
Before the last war 90 per cent, of inter-State goods-
transport was borne by inter-State shipping. This
has now been reduced by the maritime unions to
luxury status, and sailing schedules have mostly gone
by the board. Senator Kendall, himself a master-
mariner, told the Senate recently:
Last year I went to the islands in command of a
small ship. According- to my loading-sheets, the
company paid for 162 hours of work, but obtained
only 56 hours of actual work from the men. The
remainder of the time was taken up by smokos,
travelling to and from work, putting hatches on and
taking them off and rigging gear—all work that used
to be done by ships’ companies but has now to be
done by waterslders under their award. Until that
position is remedied there will be a slow turn-round
of ships in Australian ports.
Mr. Cahill’s trouble, like that of all State
Premiers, is that the railways (with all their breaks-of-
gauge, too) cannot do the work the ships are prevented
from doing, and that to slug the inter-State road-
hauliers is asking for either a railways breakdown
or a complete stagnation of thei national carrying
trade, or both.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Raising Adverse Winds
At frequent intervals since the first of
this year’s Loan Council meetings N. S.
Wales Premier Cahill has been uttering
frenzied bleats about the villainy of the
Federal Government in not allowing his
spendthrift crew all the money they feel
capable of dissipating on so-called public
works. Cahill and Co.—and they are not
alone in this —speak and act as if they
believe that the mere fixing of a “target”
for loan expenditure should be a suffi-
cient guarantee that the amount decided
upon should be forthcoming.
During the debate on the Loan Esti-
mates in the N. S. Wales Assembly, H. B.
Turner, M.L.A. for Gordon, quoted some
facts and figures. He pointed out that in
demanding loan expenditure on the scale
it desired, the Cahill Government was, in
effect, asking the community to save 50
per cent, of its income—a feat which
might be achieved in war-time by reduc-
ing consumption to a minimum, by
abandoning the building of new houses,
by economising on such things as clothes
and eliminating all extravagance:
For safety and liberty men have made
such sacrifices, but it is stupid to ask them
to do so merely to enable the Administra-
tion to scatter about the countryside a few
more public works that will never be com-
pleted.
Quoting Colin Clark and Dr. Coombs,
Mr. Turner showed that in 1938-39 the
net investment on private and public
account was 15.2 per cent, of the national
income. In 1951-52 public investment
alone took 17 per cent., so that private
industry was starved of the capital which
would have enabled it to supply the
materials essential to the success of the
works programme.
In this connection Dr. Coombs was
quoted:
It is doubtful if Australia can, at present
levels of savings and taxation, continue to
support from its own resources the volume
of works achieved in 1951-52.
Premier Cahill, of course, wants it to
support not only that volume, but much
more besides, and he appears to be quite
satisfied that this can be done by means
of bank credit, although he must know
that Treasury-bill finance has already
been availed of, and that further
expansion in this direction must mean
giving a fillip to inflation just at a time
when it is being got under control.
Apart from the more obvious effects of
inflation, one certain result of this would
be the further drying-up of the loan-
pool. Finally, “Labor’s” policy of dot-
ting the countryside with partly-com-
pleted projects which have no hope of
being reproductive during the lifetime of
the Ministers who laid their foundation-
stones tends to frighten off overseas capi-
tal, without which most economists agree
that further expansion of this country
must of necessity be slow.
Billy Hughes's Funeral
Sydney took its farewell of W. M.
Hughes with royal ceremony. He was
Australia’s “Billy,” but most intimately
he was Sydney’s. In the last honors
it paid him the city spared nothing of
solemn pomp and respect.
For three days his body lay in state in
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, within a stone’s-
throw of the humble lanes of 60 years
ago where the most renowned Australian
of his day fought his earliest battles for
political advancement, and, indeed, for
his own bare existence. From the water-
side restaurants, where “for a crust” he
washed dishes or the theatre-boards he
strutted ludicrously as a supernumerary
in playing companies ; from the local
union halls or street-corners where he
imparted his native fire to the crusading
movement of the early Labor party, he
never, so far as his own later lively
reminiscences conveyed, foresaw the pomp
of lying in state in the cathedral up
the rise from Sussex-street, the King’s
School boys guarding his coffin and all
the city’s flags at half-mast for him. He
would have commented cynically if he
had.
The rough-and-tumble of Sydney poli-
tics in the ’nineties of last century
moulded the man who found in the crea-
tion of the first Labor party the full
opportunity for development of his per-
sonality. Nothing ever dulled the im-
pression those early years made upon
him. From them he derived his relent-
less pursuit of an objective, his indiffer-
ence to any confusion or animosity he
aroused as he forced his way among
fellow-men more easily deflected from
their course, his great fighting courage,
his passion for power and the unfailing
confidence he came to acquire in his
ability to command whatever men or
circumstances he might meet.
In the great days of the First World
War he had no difficulty in taking his
place among the foremost statesmen of
the Allied nations. He flourished in
crisis. He followed overseas the same
simple recipe he had learned and used
in the Sydney unions, in the young
N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor party, in the
early Commonwealth Parliament —he had
the tongue to win the masses in an
emotional hour and, having done that,
he could tackle their masters.
His funeral was a testimonial of the
extent to which, as the Prime Minister
said, he had become a legend in his
lifetime.
Speaking Out of Turn
No fair-minded farmer will deny that,
generally speaking, the past 10 years
haven’t been too bad, especially on the
score of prices for land products. Short-
ages of manpower and essential materials
have been the worst aspect of things.
Where prices and politics have become
tangled there have been upsets, but these,
like drought and flood and other things,
have passed.
An expanding local population and a
continuing world demand for food and
fibres have kept the land industry pretty
well afloat. Australian agriculture was
never more solvent, and, despite a rebound
from the peak prices of a year or so ago,
never were its prospects brighter.
Of course, farmers have been heavily
taxed. Who hasn’t? They’ve had to
face increasing costs. Who hasn’t?
They’ve lost money through shortages
of plant and material. Who hasn’t?
They’ve been pushed about by Govern-
ments. Who hasn’t? Though in this
last respect it mustn’t be forgotten that
the farmers themselves voted for Govern-
ment-control of their products.
That being so, Defence Minister
Mcßride was doing no more than his
duty when he warned landmen against
falling into a “cost-plus system” of pro-
duction, whereby stock would be raised
and crops grown irrespective of cost
under guaranteed-price schemes. Mr.
Mcßride spoke no more than the truth
when he suggested that some landmen,
because of high prices, were inclined to
take things easy, and when he urged
them to realise that agriculture can
survive only so long as it is efficient.
It did the farmers’ case for recogni-
tion of their difficulties and remedying
of the injustices they may suffer no good
when R. A. O’Neill, of the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers, declared that the
Minister was “talking through his hat,”
or when S. S. Ick-Hewins, of N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association, described his state-
ment as “nonsensical.”
As a class, farmers would do well to
curb these spokesmen of theirs and make
sure they speak for farmers only when
there is some real grievance to be aired.
Perhaps it is significant that the two
referred to spoke from N.S.W., whence
emanates most of the thoughtless squeal-
ing heard nowadays.
The Limit in Impudence
Last week Mr. Russell, M.P. —a South
Australian “Labor” M.P. —called atten-
tion in Parliament to the fact that a visi-
tor in the Speaker’s Gallery was taking
notes —an infraction of the rules of
Parliament. He and his party had cause
afterwards to be deeply grieved when
they discovered that the note-taker was
working for T.A.A., especially since the
incident called attention to other lobbying
operations of that concern.
“Labor” was at the time fiercely con-
testing the passage of a bill to ratify a
15-years “fair-trading” agreement which
places A.N.A. and the Government-
owned T.A.A. on a competitive basis,
the Commonwealth guaranteeing A.N.A.’s
overdraft up to £3,000,000, together with
a sufficient sum to place the company on
an equal basis with T.A.A. in the pur-
chase of heavier aircraft if needed.
The monopoly which “Labor” de-
signed for T.A.A. ceases to exist. That
concern must justify its existence like
a private company.
“Labor” will have nothing to do with
the plan. It did not create T.A.A. to
justify itself. It created it deliberately to
destroy private enterprise in the air and
create a socialised air-carriage monopoly
—something which inevitably would be-
come, under “Labor’s” management, an
aerial prototype of Mr. Cahill’s railways
and tramways and the late Ted Theo-
dore’s butchers’ shops: bankrupt, inept
and g, tragedy for the unfortunate public.
Following the Speaker’s sharp action
against the note-taker, it was revealed
that the “Labor” party was not the only
party working against the bill.
Employees of T.A.A. were dis-
covered to be lobbying in the House in
parts of which members of the public
are not supposed to frequent, and, so a
Senator alleged, advising the Whip of the
“Labor” party what subjects should be
avoided in the discussion of the bill
before the House.
Impudence could hardly go further.
Australians and the Law
An incident which happened in Sydney
last week must make sensible men won-
der what is happening to the character
of Australians.
About 400 unemployed Italians tried
to break their way into the building in
which the Italian Consul-General was
housed “with a heavy baulk of timber,”
some of them armed against legal police
interference with “heavy lengths of tim-
ber and iron bars” and other improvised
weapons. In the seething crowd —one
newspaper columnist thought the police
showed forbearance in not using their
firearms —only two or three people, in-
cluding an elderly and modest civilian,
who was prepared to remain anonymous,
came to assistance to the law.
It seems to be a fixed conviction with
Sydney crowds and those in some other
cities that if the police will tangle with
lawbreakers they deserve all they get.
Perhaps the Government’s long tolerance
of lawbreaking in the liquor and s.-p.
trades has something to do with this
attitude of mind.
Soldier-settlement
Spurred by criticism of his Govern-
ment’s handling of the soldier-settlement
scheme, N.S.W. Premier Cahill bleated
that it was all the Commonwealth’s fault,
repeating the motheaten charge that the
Commonwealth is starving the States —
and N.S.W. in particular—for money.
Then out of Canberra came a state-
ment that the Commonwealth, disturbed
by the general failure of the scheme and
by the fact that, in its opinion, the three
principal States —N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland —were not allocating enough
loan money to soldier-settlement, was
examining its powers to see whether it
couldn’t take over the whole show.
Almost as stunned by this as when the
Commonwealth said it would hand back
the power to levy income tax, Cahill was
silent. But his Minister for Lands
Hawkins hopped in.
He “derided the threat,” said the Com-
monwealth had not the experience,
the organisation, or the trained staff for
the job, alleged it cost £20,600 a farm to
put a soldier-settler on the land in the
agent States (there the Commonwealth
provides the money for the land) as
against an average of about £ll,OOO per
farm in N.S.W. Then followed the
familiar whine about “harsh curtailment
of loan funds” and so forth.
All of which, whether it comes from
Canberra or Sydney, emphasises what has
been said here before—that soldier-
settlement has become a political foot-
ball. The Commonwealth, through
Minister for the Interior Kent Hughes,
gave as its reason for wanting to make
settlement a Commonwealth show its con-
cern “that the promises made to soldiers
before they went to war are not being
fulfilled.”
That is true of soldier-settlement
generally. Any politician worth his salt
would recognise it and be only too eager
to grab a chance to reform the scheme.
But too many of them are either paralysed
by partyism or putty in the hands of
bureaucrats. \
Tattoo
“Ek Dum” goes to the Eastern Com-
mand’s annual tattoo:
This year, both in Melbourne and Sydney,
the Military Command tattoos have produced
evidence that somehow public opinion about
defence, and particularly about compulsory
training, is swinging back to pre-1914 atmos-
phere.
As a spectacle —the Sydney show running
three days last week —with its fireworks, its
superb massed bands, its swift pageantry, it
was a piece of amateur-theatrical display un-
surpassed in any other field of showmanship
in Australia. It also qualified as the most
deafening event of the year, especially in
Sydney, where 25-pounders, Bofors and a
feu de joie fired by 600 grand specimens of
the Australian Royals—recently, by the way,
affiliated to the Brigade of Guards —made weak
eardrums vibrate for miles around.
As a bit of organising it was also a splendid
advertisement for the Army. It was no mean
feat to put the sections of 3000 men, women
and boys, the youngest of whom were newly
initiated National Service trainees, through a
series of manoeuvres in assorted batches of
from a few dozen to the sum total without a
hitch, especially since they had to mix at tne
proper time and in proper quantities with tast-
moving jeeps towing guns, fireworks, anti-
aircraft fire, free fights, motor-cycles, earth-
moving equipment, 155 mm. Long Toms and all
the other normal impedimenta of war. Ihere
was even an Army duck “equipped as tor
work in the recent floods.”
The whole show was educational in more
senses than one, quite apart from the glimpses
which it gave the taxpayer, who pays, of the
efficiency and smartness of Army routine.
The greatest and most interesting part of it
from the thinking spectator’s point ol view
was in the stands and on trams, trains and
buses. The second night in Sydney produced
a traffic-jam phenomenal even for that city.
And on the third night every seat was filled
in all the stands, and every vantage-point black
with spectators more than half an hour before
the show started. But what made it the more
impressive was that the bulk of the people
were young and of the working classes, who
are supposed [vide any “Labor” politician) to
despise militarism and its manifestations.
Before World War I the van in the fight for
universal training was led by Labor. The
National Training scheme has been such a
success, both from the viewpoint of the country
and of the trainees themselves, that history may
repeat itself before long, and parties vie with
each other in popular offerings in expanded
defence plans at the polls.
Apart from that, such exhibitions should give
a great fillip to recruiting, if a fillip is needed.
That Northern Rail Dream
Recurring waves of optimism seem to
be afflicting groups of Queenslanders
about a rail-link from Dajarra (Q.) to
Birdum (N.T.), via Camooweal and New-
castle Waters. The big drought in the
north has persuaded a lot of people that,
with such a railway, drought losses would
not have been so severe.
All hands and the cook have become
so excited about it that Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” was able to report that
“Queensland interests. Federal and State,
are combining strongly for the first time
in years to press for a rail-link with the
Barkly Tableland cattle area.” Premier
Gair is certain that such a line is “vital
to the State’s development and to national
defence.”
All this is based on a report that a
Federal Cabinet sub-committee has re-
commended “in principle” that a line be
built, that it has given one section first
priority and a second section second
priority. Which by no means suggests
that the quiet of the Barkly will be pierced
by the hoot of locomotives in the near —
or even far—future.
Apart from the fact that such a line
would be over 500 miles long, that it
takes a dashed long time even to begin
such a job, let alone finish it, under the
40-hour week, and that as a “public
work” it would probably be subject to
the fits and starts common to other public
works in this country, there’s need for
the line’s advocates to make up their
minds what its main purpose would be.
As a defence aid a narrow-gauge,
single-line track is absurd. As a sort of
savior of the cattle industry, what is it
supposed to do? Run fats out when
there are any? Run stores to fattening
country? Run fodder in when drought
is on and run starving cattle out? How
long do fats stay fats on a thousand-mile
train journey? Or stores remain stores?
Where would you put 20,000 head of
drought-stricken cattle if the train could
get them out?
There’s a lot of such questions in it.
There might be satisfactory answers to
them all. But until they’re made nobody
in Queensland should imagine that this
railway is anything more than a dream
just yet.
"Billy" and Caricature
James Hackston: When W. M. Hughes
was Prime Minister and Federal Parlia-
ment House was at the top of Bourke-
street, Melbourne, Hal Gye went along to
Billy’s private room and asked him if
he would sit for a caricature for The
Bulletin. Billy said yes, and asked if
Gye would prefer to make a sketch on
the floor of the House? Gye agreed,
and suggested one of Billy’s characteristic
poses. “All right,” said Billy. “Come
along with me, and I’ll put you in the
Press-box on the left. Then I’ll enter
the House, catch the Speaker’s eye and
make a speech. Don’t be too long about
it, and while I’m addressing the House
I’ll look up at you every now and then
to see if you have finished, and when
you’ve finished give me a nod.”
So, working to instructions, The
Bulletin artist sat in the Press-box on
the left, Billy entered the House, caught
the Speaker’s eye, waved a handful of
papers in his left hand, and, with his
right, pointed ominously and threaten-
ingly at the members of the Opposition,
while, with his left eye cocked up at the
artist every now and then, like a wily
(Continued on page 7)


cockatoo, he awaited the prearranged
nod from the caricaturist.
He cocks his eye. The Bulletin
shakes his head. The Prime Minister de-
nounces the laggards of his country, hurls
fire into “Hansard,” gesticulates, clenches
his right fist, scrunches the bunch of
Parliamentary papers with the left fist,
has another sly squint at The Bulletin
man; The Bulletin again shakes his
head. Posterity trembles in the mighty
distance, and then, while Billy’s dramatic
thunder rolls round the Chamber, the
sketch is finished, the Prime Minister
his twentieth squint, and this time
receives the looked-for nod.
And then Australia’s Prime Minister
ends his peroration on a sudden, quick
note, the verbal thunder fades, and, with-
out more ado, Billy makes for the exit,
swivels round, bows to the Chair, and
is gone. And as the young Bulletin
caricaturist also left and passed out be-
tween the tall, massive Corinthian
columns, he almost felt like pushing
one of them off its mighty base,
so big and important he felt;
for had not he, and The Bul-
letin, had a speech specially made for
them; had not they for one brief spell
held up the affairs of a whole continent
and for no other reason than that Billy
wanted to pose on the floor of the House
for a caricaturist for The Bulletin?
Eureka!
This happened before Dave Low had
begun to hurl his pen at Billy. When
Low’s fierce cartoons came, the originals
of the most biting of them Munro Fer-
guson, Governor-General (later Lord
Novar), used to buy and present to Billy
on his birthday. Next came Low’s Billy
Book; and once, when Bert Stevens,
of The Bulletin’s “R.ed Page,” was
going to Melbourne in the express, he
had the good fortune to have Billy as
a travelling-companion. In reply to a
query by Bert, Billy said, “Low’s a worm,
and I wouldn’t hang The Bulletin in
my .” Stevens told Low what Billy
thought of him, and Low’s next cartoons
said what Low and The Bulletin then
thought of Billy.
It is interesting to recall that when
Low and Gye shared a studio together in
the Olderfleet, in Collins-street, Low there
drew the famous Hughes and Lloyd
George Bulletin cartoon, “Speak to
him in Welsh” ; and on the Monday after-
noon, when Low put his cartoon-drawing
into the cardboard tube for posting, he
said to Gye, “I’ve just drawn the worst
cartoon I’ve ever drawn,” and with a
dismal face went off to post it.
After the Billy Book success, Low and
Hughes chanced to come face to face.
Said Billy, “Well, you’ve done pretty
well out of me.” But Low and The
Bulletin made Billy famous.
After the publication of the Billy Book
Low posted copies to England, and that
book got him his job in London.
Incidentally, it was Low who first drew
the famous “Billy” face which all car-
toonists in Australia have since copied
and standardised. Before Gye and Low,
Bill Dyson caricatured Billy for
Bulletin [see “Personal Items,” this
issue]; but it was Low who made
the Billy face, just as Hop gave Australia
The Bulletin’s also-famous Reid and
his eyeglass.
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Parliament is due in the ordi-
nary course to end today and is unlikely
to meet till towards the end of
February, by which time there will be
changes. Arthur Fadden will possibly
have retired on his laurels by that time
—the Country party is giving him and his
wife a complimentary dinner in Sydney
on November 14. The Bradfield and
Werriwa by-elections will also have been
fought. Daily-Press prophets have been
suggesting December 6 for the Bradfield
poll, but it will more likely be a while
later than that. The Speaker is sure to
follow the precedent of Flinders and
allow ample margin of time so that
servicemen in Korea, Malaya, Malta or
Japan may have a chance of vote. Polling-
day in Werriwa is November 29.
• •
It was left .o a very old lady to sum
up the end of W. M. Hughes: “He was
tough, indeed. Death couldn’t catch him
in the daylight. It had to sneak up on
him while he was asleep.”
• •
In on Tuesday, out on Friday, the
Hollway Government set a new short-
term record for Victoria; previously the
shortest-lived Ministry was Cain’s 1943
team, which lasted five days. Still, N. S.
Wales once had a Government with an
even shorter life. On December 20,
1921, the Fuller Ministry was sworn in.
Later the same day it was thrown out,
and the records give its duration as
“about seven hours.”
McDonald won the argument as to
who would be caretaker until election-
day. Hollway had hoped to hold the fort
until the poll was taken, but the Gover-
nor apparently thought otherwise. To
quote Hollway: “I tendered my resig-
nation, but not voluntarily.” His Ex.
then recommissioned Mac.
The election, now fixed for December
6, will be held on the old boundaries.
Present party-strengths, as far as can be
ascertained without submitting every
member to X-ray examination, are:
Country party, 13; Liberals, 21; Holl-
way Liberals, 6 ; “Labor,” 24; Inde-
pendent “Labor,” 1.
• 9
Evatt and Calwell in a joint appeal to
coalminers to vote the A.L.P. ticket and
reject the Reds: “Remember what the
Communists did to Prime Minister
Chifley.” It would be only fair to add:
“Remember what Doc. Evatt did for the
Communists.”
• •
Among Opposition shrieks against the
Government’s airline-legislation could be
heard the wail that Menzies had “no
mandate to do this,” and that the matter
should be put to the people by referen-
dum. The P.M.’s policy-speech in
November, 1949, included this statement
on airlines policy;
As for the Government airlines, which
were designed by the Chifley Government
to be monopolies (and failed to be so only
because of a High Court decision), we shall
put them on to a true competitive basis,
with no preferences either in cheap capital
or dollar expenditure.
Looked at without the bias of a Socialist
parlor-tiger robbed of its prey, isn’t that
just what the Civil Aviation Agreement
Bill attempts to do?
• •
If the voting in Flinders is to be taken
as a pointer to the next Federal elec-
tions the score in the Keppel by-election
for the Queensland Assembly cannot be
entirely ignored. On the pattern of State
and Federal by-elections in Victoria and
New South Wales, “Labor’s” majority
should have been considerably increased.
Instead of that it was down by over 400.
On that result Queensland could sprag
“Labor’s” hopes of a Senate deadlock
next year.
• •
Apparently that wheelbarrow trip from
Sydney to Melbourne achieved some-
thing. The railways are now talking
about a city-to-city rail delivery within
48 hours.
In the Senate the other day McLeay,
Minister for Shipping and Transport, in
a written reply to a question concerning
the effect on living costs of the 40-hour
week in the Commonwealth Railways (as
a sample of general railway freight-
increases), said that from 1945 to June,
1952, the cost of freighting one bullock
from Alice Springs to Adelaide had risen
from 475. to 1075., and the cost of freight-
ing one ton of groceries in the reverse
direction had risen from £l9 9s. to
£36 18s.
• •
When a “Sunday Herald” reporter
asked a big-shot railway official at Junee
(N.S.W.) about a statement that railway
and police officials were “conducting a
campaign throughout Riverina against un-
authorised road transport,” the official
said, “This is nothing more than what the
department should do in the normal
course of events.” Most people thought
its job was to run trains
• •
One New Australian has discovered
that when they’re not being officials Old
Australians are all right. A Hungarian,
he lost his job with N.S.W. railways,
stowed away by ship to Melbourne, was
caught, told a magistrate his story, was
fined a nominal £2 and had his costs
paid out of the poor-box. Within hours
of his story being published telephones
in newspaper offices, the Salvation Army
and Commonwealth Employment Offices
were buzzing with offers of jobs, and
cash donations began to flow in. He’s now
working with a Melbourne builder.
Dozens of jobs were offered, which sug-
gests—apart from the sympathy angle—
that there’s work for those who want it.
o •
The night before the fall of the Holl-
way Government the Ballarat electoral
convention of the L.-C.P. decided to re-
endorse Hollway as its candidate, despite
his expulsion from the Parliamentary
party. However, the ex-Premier decided
at the weekend' to stand against Liberal-
leader Norman in Glen Iris.
Hollway’s decision to switch to Glen
Iris is an astute move. His single-combat
struggle with Norman will be a mortal
combat, as it means that only one of
them will be in the next Parliament. The
odds seem to favor Hollway. In 1950
Norman won the seat by 16,500 votes
to 2Xabor’s” 8300. “Labor” has with-
drawn from the field this time, so Holl-
way can count on that party’s last-time
tally, plus swingers and plus Liberals
who have become disgusted with their
own party’s recent support of McDonald.
Similar tendencies will help some of
Hollway’s fellow-rebels, now standing
as Electoral Reform candidates.
• •
Sydney feminists have at last achieved
one of their favorite ambitions —recogni-
tion of the right of women to serve on
juries—but are not satisfied; they want
to make jury service obligatory on all
women, whether they want to serve or
not,
• •
Tasmania almost experienced a mass-
rebellion last week when the authorities
announced a ban on all Melbourne Cup
sweeps. Workmen in the factories, office-
boys, civil servants, shop-assistants and
citizens of all walks of life looked like
staging a spontaneous march on Parlia-
ment House. Then the Government had
a second thought; sweeps could be held
provided the ticket-limit was five-bob
and the total money collected no more
than £l5. The Speck then subsided into
its wonted calm.
• e
Following dismissal of a Common-
wealth Works Department gang for loaf-
ing on the job in Canberra, their union
appealed to Conciliation Commissioner
Findlay, who held that the charge could
not be sustained and directed that the
foreman-ganger be reinstated. On a sug-
gestion by the Commissioner the depart-
ment later agreed to reinstate the gang
but to reduce the foreman-ganger to the
status of a laborer.
• •
• A “vigilance officer of the Ship
Painters and Dockers’ Union” and a sea-
man each copped a £5 fine in South Mel-
bourne court for painting the slogan
“Menzies Must Go” on the wall of a
bike-shop, Menzies is still going.
Hiley, Queensland Opposition-leader,
said in a Brisbane Budget debate that
the Mother Hubbard fable could easily
come true for Queensland next year, as
the Gairs were “eating heavily into re-
serves.” At the same time, outside Par-
liament, Co-ordinator General of Public
Works Kemp said that more than £9-
million-worth of overseas materials had
been ordered by Government departments
and local authorities since 1949. Let’s
see: how much does two plus two make?
• •
Sickness has taken N. S. Wales Trans-
port Minister Sheahan off to hospital and
his portfolio has been thrust on to former
Minister for Conservation Weir, himself
just back from two months’ sick-leave.
With the railways and tramways in such
a delicate state of health the job is
hardly one to speed a man along the
road to convalescence.
• •
Mudslinging department. E. J. Ward,
accusing A.N.A. of putting profits before
safety:
There is strong suspicion that the non-
observance of safety precautions led to
some of the big air crashes which occurred.
The strong suspicions, of course, exist
mainly in the mind of Ward, a factory
of strange thoughts wherein the actions
of everyone outside the “Labor” party
and of many within it become objects
of darkest suspicion.
o •
Lighter stuff from airman Falkinder
(Lib., Tas.) in Reps, debate on Civil Avia-
tion Agreement Bill r
From “Labor” members’ remarks about
the quality of A.N.A. aircraft you’d think
they had been flying since Pontius was a
pilot. In fact, these members know as little
about aircraft as Pontius did.
“Labor’s” desire to see A.N.A.
knocked out of the Australian civil air
services ignores the fact that A.N.A.’s
transport fleet is as valuable an emerg-
ency provision for war-time as is the
R. organisation an auxiliary to
the R.A.N. The competition with T.A.A.
is calculated to keep both airlines
efficient.
• •
The Australian Parliamentary Delega-
tion which attended the Ottawa Con-
ference is back in Australia. Its hero
was Allan McKenzie McDonald (Coran-
gamite), formerly Liberal-party Whip,
whose omission from the Cabinet after
the 1949 poll confounded the prophets.
In Ottawa McDonald fought to secure
full recognition for the Dominions in
the numbers of delegates to attend the
Coronation from various parts of the
Commonwealth, Opposed vigorously at
first by the bulk of the XJ.K. delegation,
his advocacy resulted in a unanimous
resolution for transmission to the right
authorities. The Parliamentary Associa-
tion, though Australia has a Ministerial
representative on its executive already,
added McDonald’s name. The quotas
should be announced within the next
fortnight.
• •
U.N.O. is making no bones about re-
jecting Vishinsky’s resolution on peace in
Korea. The snag as usual is forcible
repatriation of prisoners. And now
General Eisenhower proposes that if he
is elected he will go to Korea within 10
days to try to find a formula of
Korean security implemented by the
S. Koreans.. It is a good thing for his
chances that he is not going before the
poll.
• •
Holland’s declaration that she has no
intention of relinquishing or limiting her
sovereignty over Dutch New Guinea
should be welcomed in this country; it
is obviously a reply to a U.N.O. speech
made recently by an Indonesian delegate
repeating that republic’s claim to the
territory. This is a matter on which the
interests of Australia and the Netherlands
are identical. If Indonesia secures the
western end of the island which she
claims is hers by “historical and cultural
right,” it won’t be long before fanatical
nationalists discover similar “rights” to
Papua and Australian New Guinea.
• •
N. S. Wales Legislative Council used
to be a place of iniquity in the eyes of
true “Labor” men, an institution fit only
to be abolished. But that was before the
boys had a majority upstairs. Nowa-
days, although abolition is still a plank
in the party platform and “Labor” has
the numbers to put through a referendum
bill to accomplish that once-desired
object, never a word is heard on the sub-
ject. The death of Country-party member
E. C. Sommerlad enabled “Labor” to
add one more to its Council team last
week. Gerald Blake Rygate was the
choice. “Labor” now holds 34 seats
in the Council, Opposition parties 26.
• •
Cahill told a deputation of railwaymen
that the sackings from the railway depart-
ment just about equalled the number of
men who had been taken on during the
previous 12 months. He said the depart-
ment had been taking on men “when it
knew the position was none too good.
It should have been preparing for the
bad times ahead.” It wasn’t clear
whether he was blaming himself, his
Transport Minister, his predecessor as
Premier or just crool Fate, but from the
sidelines it seemed as though he was
saying that someone had blundered.
Averaging the 4000 birds of passage at six
months’ service apiece, and giving them
the basic wage, it is clear that at least £1
million of the railway deficit could have
been avoided on this score alone. Yet if
Cahill had got all the money he asked
for the department would still be over-
spending at the same rate this year.
• •
People heard grumbling that the
N.S.W. Cahills couldn’t run a pie-shop
are not quite fair. After all, their lottery
still pays its way.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bring home some fish and chips, dear—there hasn't been a scrap of
gas all day."
our remaining two-bob—oyster supper
with coffee and trimmings or four pots
each at the Imperial. A few paces ahead
were a husky gent, and an attractive lady,
Suddenly another man hurried past,
tapped the husky one on the shoulder
and, as he turned, clonked him on the
jaw. Without waiting for a second crack
Husky reached for his gun and blazed,
He missed, and got .no second shot. A
figure standing on the kerb sprang,
.landed on Husky’s back, and in a brace
of shakes had him disarmed and hand-
cuffed. It was no encore of a scene of
the drama —it was bigger, better, real.
We joined the procession to the Little
Bourke-street watchhouse to see the final
act of the real-life show, and snooped
around to get the story. The man who
sprang to beat the second shot was
Detective Howard, opportunely on the
spot; the chap who swung the punch,
Walter Baker, actor ; and the lady his
wife. Husky was one-time Bulletin con-
tributor Grant Hervey. We got value for
our bobs in those days.
❖ ♦♦♦ ***
“Ybsul”; Can’t help envying the non-
chalant ease with which even a weary
all-night di^k-jockey can come through on
the rails from a seemingly hopeless posi-
tion. Heard on the air at 5.30 a.m.: “We
start our ‘Round the Bandstand’ music
with ‘March of the Aztecs.’ Afraid I’m
a few years* out, there —‘March of the
Anzacs.’” I’ve less time for another
practitioner who, conducting a quiz,
blandly played the “Indian Love Call”
from “Rose Marie” as a clue to the loca-
tion Of the River Ganges.
❖ ❖ ♦
“Jeems”: Overseas cables report the
ordaining, as a minister of religion, of a
12-year-old moppet called Renee Martz.
In Sydney a couple of years ago I took
the same little lady to the zoo, in spite
of a good many misgivings occasioned in
part by having previously heard on more
than one occasion the “soul-saving sensa-
tion of the sawdust trail” at her hot-
go spelling, which was effective, but, to
say the least, frightening. However, our
day at the zoo was one of the happiest
I have ever spent in the company of small
fry. She made charming company, and
proved intensely interested in birds and
bears and kangaroo babies, and was com-
pletely unafraid even of the 6ft. diamond-
snake which a photographer rather un-
expectedly draped round her neck to
compose a “significant” picture. She
admitted to a little nervousness, “because
I’ve never been near a snake before, you
see.” The only reference to religion she
made during the day was to tell me that
the only book she had ever read was the
Bible. Which inspires the question:
Shouldn’t a minister of religion have some
basis of comparison?
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Nunk”: When Claude McKay pre-
sided at a daily editorial conference
during “Smith’s Weekly’s” war-time
Indian summer, those with ears to
hear had a feast of information
on such things as libel law, the
backstage of big business and politics,
finance, economics, the theory and prac-
tice of publishing, and not a little about
old-time theatres. Indeed, his early up-
bringing in theatrical publicity made him
a producer rather than an editor; he
managed his writers as though they were
stars on a vaudeville bill, and an article
might be more said to “enter” than to
“appear.” After attending four con-
ferences a week for several years one
might be excused for feeling satisfied that
all that Mr, McKay could communicate
had been received. But it seems that all
the time he was holding-out on us;
he is now appearing in the Sydney Sunday
“Herald” with a series of anecdotes of
old-time Australian theatricals. An
attender at so many “Smith’s” confer-
ences must feel a little hurt; I am in-
clined to echo the fellow who, told that
the conference would be in another room
today because Claude was not coming in,
said nastily, “Then I demand my money
back!”
♦♦♦ *** ♦>
“8.A.K.”: “Bob-a-job” week brought
to my door a bespectacled Wolf Cub
with a list of his potential capabilities.
His services commissioned, I inquired as
to his working-hours. “I can’t come this
arvo,” he regretted. “I’ve gotta go to the
“Do you happen to be a mechanic?”
‘No, I'm a MacTavish."
pitchers.” Realising that there are dis-
tasteful tasks which must be carried out,
I agreed to wait until Sunday morning.
My employee arrived on time, tackled
his job with vigor and ability, and 15
minutes later was being paid off. It
wasn’t until I was filling-in his employ-
ment card that I saw myself for the con-
temptible creature I undoubtedly am.
His previous employer had paid him 2s.
6d. for H hour’s work “minding the
pup.” To think there are still people like
that in this world! And I, who loathe
gardening myself, had condemned that
poor kid to 15 minutes of it.
“Jasby”: After studying my Boy Scout
son’s “bob-a-job” card I am satisfied that
the spirit of generosity is not dead.
Among the more mundane entries such
as “weeding garden, half-an-hour, 2s.
and “cutting edges, 40 minutes, 2s. 6d.”
I found the item “shutting front gate, 3
seconds, 1/-.” The explanation: “The
lady wanted to give me the shilling for
nothing, but I said we had to do some
work, so she asked me to shut the gate.”
Further down, among the “messages” and
“minding the baby,” I read “picking a
carnation, 5 seconds, 1/6.” There was a
similar explanation to the gate story.
But his best score happened on the last
day of the week. He went off to fulfil a
gardening contract, limping slightly with
a bruised ankle. Arrived home an hour
or so later, with foot and leg swathed in
bandages and a casualty-ward receipt for
five-bob. “After I’d been working 10
minutes the lady made me go up to the
hospital to get my ankle fixed. She gave
me ss. for the job and ss. for the hos-
pital.” Appreciation of the unknown
benefactor’s kindness was tempered with
slight resentment at the implied parental
neglect, but next day son was sent round
to refund the medical fee. He returned
with the five-bob still in his pocket. “She
wouldn’t take it. Told me to put it on
my card.” That’s why the last entry on
his card reads “Getting foot fixed up,
one hour, 55.”
*** ❖
“Strict T.-T.”: Fresh-air is one of the
most dangerous things to mix with a
corkscrew. Recently, in a car, I picked
up a Government official whose duty it
was to inspect wine-bins. He was as sober
as a judge ; he walked straight and bore
himself with the decorum of a high civil
servant. But the air hadn’t parted that
fellow’s hair more than a few miles when
he was as drunk as they make ’em. In
addition to testing with instruments he’d
also used his palate, and, not being a
professional taster, he didn’t swirl and
spit. He reckoned it was a sin to waste
good wine, so he swallowed it. Ive had
plenty of experience with topers, but to
see a stiff and precise civil servant, per-
haps a church elder and a pillar of society,
succumb to what I live on fresh-air
was a shock that very nearly drove me
to drink.
*** * ♦>
“P.0.M.C,”: Heth’s batsman’s light-
hearted technique for silencing the too-
zealous ’keeper (B. 22/10/’52) stirred a
boyhood memory. At Perth, in the 1912-
13 schools’ premiership match between
Christian Brothers and Scotch College,
one of C.B.C.’s openers, wildly weaving
the willow at a loose one, spun in his
crease and struck Scotch ’keeper Evans
on the chin, fracturing his jaw. For
10 minutes pandemonium reigned among
the sectarians behind the pickets, we
smaller fry passionately declaring that the
blow was intentional (the stricken ’keeper
being our star bat), for which outburst
our head, P. C. Anderson, delivered a
caustic sermon on sportsmanship at
prayers next morning. However, the
incident didn’t prove fatal to Evans’s
prowess behind the stumps ; he later kept
wickets for W.A.
❖ ❖ ♦
“Justus Mac Swell”: For some years
my lunch-hour has been devoted to that
most pleasant combination cold beer,
rich tobacco and the kind of idle con-
versation that spreads itself over any
old where on any old subject. Several
of us formed the habit of congregating
in a corner of the saloon, each buying
his own drink and all tossing in odd bits
of conversational this-and-that so that we
all went away well and happily mis-
informed about a lot of things that didn’t
matter a hoot. The trouble first appeared
in the form of a pocket chess-set. It
meant nothing at first; just a curiosity
and some indulgent chiacking for the pair
who apparently spent their evenings work-
ing out moves and executed them in a
couple of moments at lunch-time. But
the insidious business spread, and there
are now three portable sets and six of
the once-convivial group stand over them
in eggbound concentration, beer almost
forgotten and conversation barely
tolerated. The two or three non-players
remaining either sneak in for a silent,
melancholy middy and bolt out again,
or else go up to the more stimulating
atmosphere of the milk-bar.
APPLICATION FOR TRANSFER
There are thirty -two people living in this
district;
The nearest town is twenty-five miles too
far ;
I own a pushbike and legs that tire too
easily ;
So at night I calculate, the cube-root of
the stars.
The irritating girl whose hair I knew at
moonlight
Lives in another place, has found a boy.
Besides those facts there’s nothing worth
remembering
And I’ve begun to count the year in days.
A rattling fine tin-lizzie skirts the mailbox,
And I’m jealous of the driver and his
hope-in-life old thing.
The letters I’ve addressed, to go to Sydney,
I cannot look at without envying.
If I can’t have my girl and cars are so
expensive,
Then I want to go where I can be in-
different, at home;
There are thirty-two people living in this
district
And they all know me by my proper
name.
Consequently, sir, I want to be sent to
Sydney —
Not that I wish to be wholly anonymous;
— There’s time for that when chiselled-
words are smoothing —
But there, I could be miserable without
pretence,
A simple pleasure for a simple feeling
n;s.w. Ray Mathew.
>♦+ +>
“Soc”: The passing of “Billy” Hughes
had the remarkable effect of turning out
the fire brigade in his old electoral
stamping-ground of North Sydney.
Summoned to the Council Chambers, the
brigade chaps, watched by an assembling
excitement-attracted crowd, ran their tre-
mendous ladder to the top of the high
flagpole, whereupon one of them sprinted
up and loosened the flag that had got
stuck there, stubbornly refusing to be
pulled down to half-mast. Evidently the
flag had its own ideas about “Billy.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emjai” : Melbourne Cup night, 1905
At the old Melbourne Royal the show
was “The Betting Book,” with Walter
Baker as leading man. Capping a losing
day of two-bob bets on the flat, a pair
of us, splashing the remnants of bur quid-
a-Week, had a bob’s-worth of real thrills
in the “gods,” with some education on
how to pick ’em thrown in. After the
show we strolled up Bourke-street, debat-
ing > which was the better investment for
THE SINGERS
.vfiacA: vras built of cabbage-tree palm
and, out of the dark antarctic blow,
sheltered in the headland’s calm
where a hanksia-tree spread out before
the line of the cliffs and the swell and
flow
of the sea in its constant roar and boom.
And once a blood-red moon we saw
rise out of the sea as the clock said seven,
arise and climb the high bare heaven.
We sat in the lantern-lighted room
{the sea below us ran molten gold )
as the battered piano twanged out its tune,
and sudden we sang, to the rising moon,
to the moon until she was withered and
old.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


“Croid”: When a Londoner who had
been in Sydney for 12 months told me he
liked Australia but “missed the swim-
ming,” I thought he was pulling my leg.
Then he reminded me of the heated pools
that are spread throughout London, en-
abling people to indulge in aquatic sports
right through the winter. Out here
swimmers have to give up their practice
during the cold months, unless they belong
to that hardy breed the “Icebergs.”
❖ ♦♦♦ *i*
“Casca”: Our local butcher’s-shop is
a family concern run by Pop and two
sons, but they employ a young lass as
cashier —why, no one knows, because
she seems to spend her time reading
novels or phoning friends. The other
day I noticed she was missing. “She’s
sick,” explained Pop. “The girls nowa-
days are never fit for work,” he con-
tinued. “Saturday she goes to a dance.
Sunday plays tennis ; and last night she
goes to national-fitness class. No wonder
she has a tummy-ache!”
* ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: Like “Bo” (B. 8/10/’52),
I came home in the Ormonde on her
CHIROPODIST
“Now you'd better get a bootmaker to sole and heel it for you.
maiden voyage to Australia in 1919.
Ormonde was then what the Horseferry-
road people called a “family ship.” She
carried homing members of the A.I.F.
and their wives, assorted civilians who
had been doing war work in London,
a few youngsters, a few hospital cases,
and even a clink-bird —travelling home,
under armed guard, to serve 15 years for
robbery with violence. The skipper,
Captain Staunton, was a stalwart, well
bemedalled R.N.R. officer who finished
up as Commodore of the Orient Line.
Besides “Bo” and myself, there were
many notable passengers on board. The
C.O. troops was Colonel Roy Chalmers,
of the 27th Battalion, a tall rangy Tas-
manian whom the Japs murdered at
Nauru in his second war. The tallest
man on board —about 6ft. sin
Colonel Steve Bruggy, a Staff Corps
officer who commenced his soldiering as
a gunner in the R.A.A. Others I re-
member were Colonel A. W. Ralston, a
Sydney lawyer, the late Major George
Abjornson (then a lieutenant), the only
Australian to be made an honorary
corporal of the French Chasseurs Alpins,
and the boxer Alf Morey. That voyage
was a happy trip with consistently good
weather throughout, but it ended on a
note of tragedy. At Melbourne a Digger
coming aboard after an afternoon in the
city fell down an uncovered hatchway
and was killed.
*t* ❖
“Kelms”: When are a motor-cycle’s
brakes efficient? The question is
prompted by a Perth newspaper report
on an inquest on the victims of a motor-
bike accident. Evidence was given that
the bike did some unaccountable acro-
batics before hitting a car, A constable
who had subsequently examined the
machine said that the sliglrest touch on
the brake-lever completely locked the
back wheel, and he thought that this had
caused the accident. Now, were those
brakes faulty or was the paper correct in
describing them as “super-efficient”?
* ❖ ❖
“Crumbs”: Note from the current issue
of “Bohemia,” organ of the Melbourne
Bread and Cheese Club: “Fellow D. H.
Rankin said his daughter had recently
met John Masefield in London. She
found the Poet Laureate a very charming
man, who showed her over his garden,
took her photograph, kissed her farewell
and invited her to call again.” Evidently
the lady also had her share of charm.
* ❖ ❖
“Irving”: That country cop who
allowed almost his entire bag of arrested
rattler-jumpers to escape (B. 22/10/’52)
was probably following unofficial orders.
In the depression days every train in
Queensland made an unscheduled stop
about a mile out of each country town
to disgorge unpaying passengers and
paused a similar distance after leaving a
station for the greater convenience of
hoboes intending to board. Strangely
enough, there was less pillage in those
days, though all goods-trains were in-
fested with stowaways. The rare excep-
tions invariably involved thefts of beer.
One such was the occasion on which a
rail-staff found a baker’s dozen of ride-
stealers in a comatose condition in a van
of broached cases of lager. The sleepers
paid for their debauch not in the boob
but in the hospital, where it took them
many days to recover from sunstroke
and sunburn as a result of sleeping it off
under a tarpaulin on which the Queens-
land sun had been beating for hours.
Even the publican whose consignment
had been rifled forbore to prosecute after
observing their parboiled condition.
* <* ❖
“Stripey”; The Royal Navy has thou-
sands of confirmed disciples of rum (B.
8/10/’52). The attainment of the age of
20, the Navy’s demarcation-line between
youth and man, necessitates the momen-
tous decision —grog or temperance?
Choosing the latter increases the fort-
nightly handout by a mere 3d. per day,
a remuneration so out of proportion in
the minds of the older salts as to evoke
much higher bids. The daily ceremony
for rum-issue, commencing at 1045 and
culminating in the pipe “Messes muster
“ That's the one that got away.”
for rum” at 1100, has lost none of its
ceremonial solemnity through repetition.
The brass-bound and lettered tub, recently
altered to read “The Queen —God Bless
Her,” the gleaming copper receptacles,
the “pusser’s” solemn intonation of the
mess and amount, the measuring of the
water (2 to 1 tot of rum) and the all-too-
evident “scupper,” down which, to the
dismay of all, disappear the leavings.
With rum in the messes, the ceremony
continues in the pouring of the individual
tots —no easy task when dividing the last
drips equally among perhaps 25 cups,
the pourer being avidly watched by the
recipients. Various borrowed tots are
repaid, and should it be a messmate’s
birthday then he gets “sippers” from all.
But dear to the hearts of all rum-drinking
sailors, and too seldom heard, is the pipe
“Splice the Mainbrace” when a second
issue of rum is made.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Croid”; Like “Aestur” (B. 22/10/’52)
I once fell for a sideshow. “Come and
see these lovely girls in the beautiful skin
God gave them!” cried the spruiker at
the country show. “See Fifi, our little
dancer straight from Paris! ” With other
mugs I rushed to the ticket-office, expect-
ing a miniature Folies Bergere. The girls
were clad in hula dress, exposing no more
then is seen on any of our beaches.
Between acts I overheard one of the girls
talking to Fifi, but she called her Gladys,
and was answered with a Surry Hills
accent.
* ❖ *
“Killick”: A Sydney columnist wrote
a sad little piece about the fact that
Sydney police-launches, which had here-
tofore been black, were being painted
white. He considered this a step for the
worse for an organisation whose members
were expected to steal up on malefactors.
If he had grabbed a telephone and
checked with anyone who knew anything
about launches he might have come up
with any one of the following facts:
Black launches, because of the heat ab-
sorbed by the color, have a life expec-
tancy about 30 p.c. shorter than white
launches. Because of paint deterioration,
upkeep costs are increased. After yellow
and red, black is one of the easiest colors
to see at sea ; white is fairly inconspicuous
both in a sea filled with “white horses”
or in a harbor filled with white small
craft. The noise of their high-powered
engines makes it fairly difficult for police-
launches to sneak up on malefactors,
anyway. Police-launches carry naviga-
tion-lights at night the same as other craft,
and a majority of policemen wear uni-
form.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Doric”: Strange how one associates
certain adjectives with one sex. When
my wife said “I wish you’d get a new
hat—that last one is quite dowdy,” it
sounded wrong. Even though all my
friends don’t wear a pork-pie or hom-
burg I don’t think I can picture a
“dowdy” man. A dowdy woman, cer-
tainly, but an unstylish man is usually
referred to as unkempt or scraggy.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ +♦♦
“O. K. Lee”: Touching on those fur-
naces in towers of medieval English
castles (B. l/10/’52). Actually, many of
them were equipped also with compara-
tively efficient plumbing and sewerage.
From the furnaces copious supplies of
boiling water were released, and, with the
aid of gravity, flushed out a system of
drains which ran through all storeys.
Though the plumbing systems would
hardly pass a present-day sanitary-
inspector they must have functioned to
the satisfaction of the owners of the
castles. There is no record of any castle
being abandoned for olfactory reasons,
though, of course, the aristsocracy of
those days may have been moulded of
sterner stuff than their descendants.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Lemuel G.”: I thought that in 20
years in advertising I’d seen just about
everything—but no! Out of America
comes always something new. “Red-
book” magazine ran a series of articles
on filth in food-handling. Up came the
United Fruit Company with a super-
colossal advertising campaign selling
bananas, stressing the amazing fact that
“Nature seals bananas in a germ-free
package!” This leaves no doubt what-
ever in my mind that umpty-seven mil-
lion years ago, when Mother N. thought
up the idea of the banana, she had in
mind the fastidiousness of the Great
American Public and the U.S. pure-food
laws, so she tucked away in a slimy
swamp a little bit of free-swimming
matter that would one day evolve into
an advertising man who in 1952 would
reveal the whole secret of her purpose.
♦ * ❖
“Clevesby”: The fluttering spinster,
just returned from England, was
haranguing fellow dramatic - society
members about the language-laziness of
Australians. “Australians lack energy to
retain lingual purity of Southern Eng-
land,” she asserted. “Australian language
does contain new slang, new words, new
idioms, new pronunciations,” agreed the
English-born phonetics-lccturess. “Even
some grammar has been dropped. You
call this laziness; I call it progress.”
“It’s a matter of accent,” said the spinster.
“A matter of taste.” “That’s a popular
attitude,” said the phonetics-instructress.
“I bet there were even cave-dwellers who
preferred ‘pure’ language of animal grunts
and burps to the disgusting newly-invented
glottal play.” “You twist everything,”
accused the spinster. “You ought to be
ashamed of yourself,” said the spinster’s
friends to the phonetics-instructress. “I’ve
never known you win an argument,” I
added- “That’s this evening’s lesson,”
said the phonetics-instructress. “To in-
fluence an audience you must forget
reason and resort to emotionalism. No
good talking sense. You’ve got to
dramatise.”
* ❖ ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: That useful contrivance
the pillar-box celebrates its centenary this
year. Though the idea was at first turned
down by the English postal authorities,
somehow a start was made at St. Helier,
on the island of Jersey, where the first
box was erected as an experiment on
November 23, 1852. It proved so popular
that soon a rash of red boxes had spread
all over Britain. Novelist Anthony Trol-
lope appears to have been the originator.
In England the pillar-box is a feature of
even the tiniest village, and is used to an
extent quite unknown in Australia. One
village 1 knew had no other post-office.
Anyone who wished to post a parcel
waited beside the pillar-box for the post-
man, who arrived punctually twice daily
on a motor-cycle, with sidecar for mail-
bags and a set of scales and weights. He
also sold stamps and, I think, money-
orders.
THE CHARMS OF ARMS
“The Polish Foreign Minister, Mr. Skrzese-
zewski, who demanded world-disarmament m
the United Nations assembly, earned a pistol
in the Assembly Hall. He always carries on ,
and sleeps with it under his pillow.
I admire this Skrzesezewski, the Foreign
Office Pole;
While he tells United Nations, sweet
as sugar,
That he thinks it might be better to stop
fighting on the whole.
He’s carrying a Webley or a Luger;
It’s not as though he said to them, “Now.
all put up your hands
In favor of decision to disarm!”
The pistol’s reputation has been spoiled
by harsh commands —
It can be a highly efficacious charm.
If youtre hunting through your pockets
in a night-club or a tram
And you can’t rake up enough for bill
or fare,
And you fish a little pistol out, and
murmur softly,, “Damn;
I’m sorry; I forgot I had it there,’’
They’ll reassure you: “Sir, it’s not worth
worrying about;
Stay on and fix us up when you are
able.”
And even in a Sydney tram or club that’s
crowded out
Such methods may secure a seat or
table.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


IF YOU LIKE WINE
OLD AND GOOD
gfj
WINE
Established 1847
PERSONAL ITEMS
Twenty of the 22 recent awards to
R.A.N. men went to carrier Sydney’s
complement—which says something for
the training of Commodore David Hugh
Harries, who had her in Korea. Early
in War II senior-officer of a British mine-
sweeper flotilla, Harries was later execu-
tive-officer of cruiser Shropshire, recog-
nised as possibly the finest radar-ship in
the Pacific fighting—she received th
unusual distinction of a citation from
the White House. Harries’s share of the
award-list was C.B.E. Navigation’s hi
baby.
The last The Bulletin heard of the
six-to-seven-feet of bearded muscularity
which walks under the name of Sidney
Kyle-Little, he was off to the Argentine
pampas to study beef-cattle. A bit before
that, trailing a suspected murderei
with a constable of the Territory
Mounted, he had crossed 200 miles o:
fearsome landscape between Millingimb
Mission in the north of Arnhem Land to
Mainoru in the south—probably the first
time in recorded history white'men hac
done so. Now, it seems, he’s in Malaya
evidence of which was the recent pinning
on his brawny chest, by the Sultan o
Negri Sembilan, of the Malayan D.S.C
The State’s Home Guard officer, Kyle
Little has been typically busy; leading
his guards on anti-Communist patrols
laying, out new villages, and, as a change
from town-planning, swimming a flooded
river to secure a rope to a washed-away
bridge, and diving back in again to rescue
a Chinese woman and her baby. The
hawk-faced adventurer, 33, hails from
Kedron, Brisbane, served behind Jap lines
in war-time Borneo, and was a patrol-
officer in the Territory’s Native Affairs
before lobbing in Malaya.
Notched his 87th year, Enzedder Arch-
bishop A. W. Averill, who, in 1925, suc-
ceeded Archbishop Julius in the C. of E.
Primacy, retiring therefrom in 1940
His jovial countenance once deceivec
an Irish cabman, who, on being asked to
drive him to the bishop’s palace, landed
him at the door of the R.C. establish-
ment.
Passed on at Stirling, in the Adelaide
hills. Sir Constantine Trent Champion de
Crespigny, eldest son in a distinguished
medical and military family. Colonel,
A.A.M.C., on Gallipoli, in France and
in Belgium, with D.S.O. and two “men-
tions,” he offered his services again in
1939, but was turned down on the score
of age. A Melbourne University man, he
began practising in Adelaide in 1909,
and subsequently held most of the im-
portant posts in Australian medical
associations, including president of the
R.A.C.P. and Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine at Adelaide University. One
brother, Claude Montgomery, commanded
a bomber-squadron in England and a
wing in Burma in War 11, and is now
Deputy-Director of Operations at the
R.A.F. Air Ministry. Another brother.
Marshal Hugh, now air-vice-marshal, was,
when promoted, the youngest air-commo-
dore in the R.A.F. He started in the
Ist A.1.F., won M.C. therein, and D.F.C.
in the R.A.F. He’s now farming in the
Transvaal. Seventy at the end, the
medico was knighted in 1941.
“M.H.E.” replies: There were three
Cahill brothers —Keh-hill, please—in the
N.T., Tommy, Paddy and Mat (one of
th© six pioneers of the Murrinji Track).
Mrs. Ernestine Hill’s mistake was in con-
fusing Paddy, the buffalo-shooter, with
Tommy, sft. 2in. in his elastics and about
the same fighting weight as Napoleon, who
was Nat Buchanan’s boss-drover and
horsemaster on the pioneer overland
drives from Queensland to the Victoria
and Ord in the early ’eighties. Paddy,
like Joe Cooper, was a pioneer among the
buffalo, and so was Cecil —not Louis —
Freer, who now hunts among the big-
horns of King’s Cross, not Arnhem Land.
‘Uramao”: The recent destruction by
fire of much of New Zealand’s historical
records through being inadequately
housed has hurried the Government to-
wards getting the history of N.Z. Par-
liamentary government written. For the
task Dr. Alex. H. McLintock, of Dunedin,
has been selected. His monumental
History of Otago, commemorative of
Otago’s Centennial in 1948, won the
William Ernest Scott Prize of Melbourne
University, the first time it has gone to
an Enzedder. Two other histories of
note stand to his credit— The Establish-
ment of Constitutional Government in
New Zealand (1939) and Port of Otago
(1951). McLintock is also an artist of
some note ; his etchings have been ex-
hibited at the Coronation Exhibition of
the Royal Academy, the Royal Scottish
Academy, the New English Art Club
(London), and in Paris.
“Ek Dum’s” reminiscences;
1 first met W. M. Hughes in the summer of
1909-10 when he came to Brisbane as a single
spy, and he hoped secretly, to help the Q.CA.
and the Labor party plot the downfall of the
Deakin Government. He arrived at 6.40 p.m.,
after nearly 40 hours in the train, in the middle
of a typical Queensland thunderstorm, wearing
an Assam-silk suit, a narrow-brimmed straw-
hat and button-boots. He wanted to know
how the blithering something a young reporter
had found out about his coming, but he did
not scruple to borrow my mackintosh, in which
he darted across the road, its tail trailing in
the mud, like a small, swift bandicoot. In the
pie-shop which used to stand where the Hotel
Canberra now is he chose apple-pie for a
repast—the only other choice was meat-pie —
scooping the pastry off savagely as if he were
removing Deakin from the earth like a scab,
and in the meantime scarifying his main hate
of the moment with fiery words. These were
suddenly interrupted, as he peered into the
luscious recesses of his viands, by a rafter-
shaking sound, normal to him in moments of
indignation, which his faithful war-time sec-
retary, Percy Deane, used to describe as a
“helluva yell.” [“There’s Billy’s helluva yell!
I must go!”] A frightened restaurateur came
running. “Where’s the blanky fruit? It’s all
something pastry!” yelled Billy. “There’s a
whole apple in it,” retorted the restaurateur —
you really got value for your twopence those
days. “A whole apple! Gahd, Eve would
never have noticed that one —no, she would
have swallowed that one without seeing it.
But, comrade, it would certainly have made her
sinful—-it makes me sinful, comrade—it makes
me murderous.” The poor cafe-owner went
AS WILL DYSON KNEW HIM
off muttering something about people being all
guts. The last time I saw Billy—with a host
of memories of him to fill the interval since
1910 —was when we had lunch together with
the Speaker a fortnight before he was taken
ill last month —a mere, gentle, transparent
shadow of the bundle of gelignite which he
was in his best days. He sat amicably beside
Earle Page, who was the engineer of his down-
fall in 1923, pausing in his discourse now and
then to throw a beaming smile at two little
pigtailed schoolgirls, daughters of a Minister,
who sat opposite hjm. No apple-pie that day
—Billy was toying with the best that Parliament
House had to offer, and apparently scarcely
noticing that it was there.
Fred Heffernan, tally-clerk of Lyall’s
Mill, near Collie (W.A.), became, the
other day, the first Queen’s Prize winner
on the Swanbourne rifle-range. Heffer-
nan’s tally in a field of 6000 competitors
was 340 points out of a possible 355. A
rangy six-footer, born in S, Australia, he
went to Westralia in 1928 and has lived
in the jarrah country since. Heffernan’s
performance was keenly watched by the
only other Queen’s Prize winner in West-
ralia, Perth architect J. Herbert Bales, a
stalwart with 88 up on Father Time’s
target. Bales won the Queen’s on the
Williamstown rifle-range (Vic.) in 1890,
in ,a shoot-off after a triple tie; he
captained the Westralian rifle-team in
1916.
Doffing mortarboard and gown after
19 years of headmastering Melbourne’s
Scotch College, Colin Macdonald Gilray
—a Scot, by the way—is a New Zealand
Rhodes Scholar whose father was Pro-
fessor of English at Otago University,
where young Gilray was polished.
Already an Enzed Rugby Union inter-
national before going to Oxford, Gilray
later played for Scotland, then got down
to work as an assistant-master at London’s
famed Mill Hill school. Before finally
settling for a teaching career, he had a
shot at Wilhelm (winning M.C. in the
process), and had a go at law, being
admitted to the Inner Temple Bar and
next taking up a practice back in New
Zealand. He forsook law for learning in
1922, when he became principal of
Dunedin’s John McGlashan College.
Born at Broughty Ferry, Scotland, 67
years ago.
Relieving Gilray, 38-year-old English-
man Richard Selby-Smith was captain of
Tom Brown’s school, and from Oxford
went to Harvard on a Commonwealth
Fund Fellowship. He was back home,
teaching at Sedbergh, the noted Yorkshire
public school, when Hitler let go, and
promptly joined the R.N.V.R., ordinary-
seaman. By 1944 he was lieutenant-
commander, serving under an R.A.N:
captain. The new man comes to Mel-
bourne from a job as education-officer in
Warwickshire, in which county Rugby
stands.
“Macnell”: The Admiral and Prender-
gast have had their last shipboard romp
—their creator, Lieut.-Commander Neil
Martin Sherlock, passed on the other
day. Known throughout the Australian
Navy, and to Bulletin readers since
1935, as “Lock,” Sherlock was born at
Exeter (N.S.W.), and joined the R.A.N.
as a snotty in 1918. After 13 years sea-
faring, in which the ideas for his irrepres-
sible characters were culled from service
in most ships of the R.A.N., Lock decided
to concentrate on his art-work, and
resigned. He was back at sea when Hitler
let go, in command of small ships of the
U.S. Navy. His three books, Prendergast
of the Silent Service, Marks I, II and 111,
were widely popular. Lock came out
in the new Canberra, and many of his
original drawings were lost in her and
in the Sydney. The inspirations of the
Admiral and Prendergast were Rear-
Admiral Custance, one-time boss of the
Australian Squadron, and Wilfrid Patter-
son, captain of his flagship, and, later,
captain of battleship King George V
when, flying the flag of Admiral Jack
Tovey, she got the Bismarck. Lock
was 48.
General Sir John Harding, who takes
over C.I.G.S. from Field-Marshal Slim
(due in Yarralumla shortly), won three
D.S.O.’s in his 13 months in the Western
Desert, and in 13 years has risen from
command of a battalion to the highest
post in the British Army. Starting
off Allan Francis Harding—he obtained
Royal permission to be knighted “John,”
the name he has always gone under in
the Army—he left London G.P.O. for a
commission in the London Regiment in
1914, and had command of a Gallipoli
battalion at 21 —a measure of the com-
petence which was to give him the 7th
British Division at Alamein, a Mont-
gomery appointment. Leading his mob
to Tripoli, his tank was struck by a
75mm. round, and, wounded, he missed
seeing Tripoli fall. Sent later to Italy
as Alexander’s chief-of-staff at Caserta,
he was in at the fall of Rome. He had
a look at Korea before taking charge
last year of the Army of the Rhine, in
which post one of his directives, widely-
publicised, was “Every man fit for war
at 24 hours’ notice.” He’s 56.
Hugh Campfield, hereunder, is manag-
ing-director of the Behr-Manning million-
dollar factory at Lidcombe (Sydney),
opened by Senator Spooner the other
day. The concern produces for the Aus-
tralian market articles ranging from the
übiquitous adhesive-tape and undercoat
for motor-cars to abrasives for heavy-duty
grinding of steel in shipyards and other
defence projects—all of which were
formerly imported. An instructor-pilot
CAMPFIELD OF BEHR-MANNING
in War I, Campfield was a test-pilot in
the next scrap before he was given com-
mand of the vast Oklahoma City air-
depot, centre of the B-29 training pro-
gramme. Lieut.-colonel when War II
ended, Campfield Knows a thing or two
of workmen —and reckons that the Aus-
tralian brand, particularly the 275-odd ne
employs at Lidcombe, are as good as
they come.
“Taffy,” translated from the Welsh:
Not one of the multitude of tributes to
William Morris Hughes included a reference to
his attachment to the Cymmrodorion Society
of Sydney, which serves as a focal-point for
all Welsh folk in that city. For many years
Billy was a patron, rarely absent from the St.
David’s Day dinner, where he always had some-
thing new and often something biting to
say. He couldn’t be described as fluent
in Welsh, and it is doubtful if he would
have understood Lloyd George even if
David had spoken to him in Welsh at Asquith’s
Cabinet-meeting. He loved, however, to hear
his mother-tongue in speech and song, and
used his repertoire of remembered expressions
in it with considerable effect. He was always
encouraged in this by Elystan-Price, for many
years president of Cymmrodorion. It was
strange, therefore, that the Welsh Society was
not offered official participation in the obsequies;
not even given the opportunity to offer their
last tribute by singing a Welsh hymn at the
graveside, as they did with such telling effect
when “a man called Ben Price” passed on.
Into the Silence:
In Hobart, Mrs. Alice D. Baker, author of
Tasmania Now and Then, The Life and Times
of Sir Richard Dry, radio-plays and poems.
One of her sons is Professor of Law at the
University of Tasmania.
At 60, in Brisbane, Albert Edmund Beech,
who joined the Brisbane Ambulance Brigade
as a stretcher-bearer in the horse-and-sulky era,
when jtmbulance-men, called to an accident
miles from the city, towed their litter astern.
Then, with the patient aboard, they walked the
litter back to base. At the end Beech was
Superintendent of the brigade, with 38 wireless-
cars under his charge. He left for the Kaisers
war the year it started, and served on Gallipoli
with the 3rd Field Ambulance.
In Hampshire (Eng.), at 54, Rear-Admiral
Robert Kirk Dickson, C. 8., D. 5.0., who was,
as war-time Chief of Naval Information at the
Admiralty, responsible for letting the Island
in on its Silent Service’s doings. A snotty at
the Falkland Islands battle and at Jutland,
early in War II he commanded minelayer
Manxman, one of the fastest ships in the
British Navy and the first for three months
to reach Malta when the siege was raised in
November, 1942.


THE MYSTERY OF THE MISSING OFFICE-BOY


ABORIGINALITIES
“Dee”: All through time bees have
drawn their nectar from the flowers to
turn it into the honey which is their food
and eventually, by process of human
robbery, our food. But we live in a
fast-moving, high-pressure age—an age
of concentrates and synthetics. Even the
bees have caught up with it. Holidaying
at Manly (N.S.W.) I visited a fruit-drink
bar. It was ultra-modern and had a
gadget so arranged that large bottles of
orange, pineapple, lemon and lime con-
centrated juices were upended into a
series of nozzles, out of which the girl
would deftly squirt each appropriate in-
jection. Naturally there was some leak-
age around these nozzles —and dozens of
bees were working overtime sucking in
the highly-concentrated juices. In this
projection of bee-life to a new economy,
I should like to know how many bees
have to work on flowers per bee-hour to
equal the output of nectar from one
pineapple-pump, and just what the master-
brewer in the hive does to separate the
orange from the pineapple and the lemon
from the lime.
♦ ♦ * *
“Bass”: At Jiggalong mission, between
Meekatharra and Roebourne (W.A.),
natives whose children become ill almost
invariably inflict some punishment on
themselves, and if asked the reason they
explain, “Me proper sorry fella now.”
Natives love their children. Mothers
with children in hospital will face what
are to them the terrors of a white man’s
building at night to remain near them;
and that requires real courage. But a
native’s grief is often as silent as it’s deep.
They can wail on occasion—make no
mistake about that —but in the throes of
a real grief they seem to become inarticu-
late ; and I think self-injury is their way
of reducing their grief to terms of some-
thing over which they can lament. In
other words, to make them sorry.
* * * *
“Chefee”: I wonder how “Long Bob”
measured the 600 ft. altitude of the pere-
grine-bat dogfight he saw (B. 22/10/’52).
I have often checked in an Anson the
heights of the long vees of Canada geese
migrating to the Arctic in the spring and
to the south in the autumn. Most of them
flew at from 80ft. to 300 ft. Which
astonished me, for I had thought them a
high-flying bird. Some did reach 600 ft.,
and at this altitude the great birds were
tiny dots in the sky. On one occasion,
staggering slowly home with one engine
folded up and only about 80 m.p.h. on
the clock, I passed a lone duck, 4300 ft.
above the prairie and more than a thou-
sand miles from a mountain. I have
never seen a bird at anything like that
altitude before or since. He would have
been invisible from the ground. Most
“authenticated” reports of high-flying
birds have come from pilots who have
returned from flights with a duck or a
seagull wedged in the oil-coolers or
smashed through the windscreen. The
reports say such birds are picked up at
altitudes ranging from 2000 ft. to 5000 ft.
The actual contact has, of course, been
made in the forbidden low-flying area
below 600 ft. Once a pilot came back
after a night’s low-flying over swamp with
his wings and perspex black with huge,
squashed grey mosquitoes. He reported
them—by request —as high-flying mos-
quitoes inhabiting an altitude of 1200 ft.
♦ ♦ * *
“Dicky”: Three successive years of
floods have inured me against many
things, I can paddle a canoe through
a half-mile of water to catch my horse,
I don’t mind ducks in the cowyard or
swans floating through the horSe-paddock
gate. But I still experience slight shock
when I see the flock of seagulls that is
habitually bobbing serenely about on
what should be a large, dry claypan, 300
miles from the sea.
♦ * * *
“Alma”: Many of the larger birds,
especially water-birds, have a “coo” in
their repertoire, though not in their cry
when startled or in flight. It is
heard in their conversational
voices. Get near enough to
listen to black swans, floating
undisturbed on swamp or creek,
and you will hear, quite dis-
tinctly, although very softly,
“coo-coo-coo-ee.” Many ducks,
water-hens and avocets “coo”
between themselves when feeding
or swimming undisturbed —a
sound very different from their
cries uttered in flight. Of
cuckoos, one species which is
jp this Booligal (N.S.W.) region
at the moment makes no tradi-
tional cuckoo sound. It is the
narrow-billed bronze cuckoo, and the call
is a clear, downward-falling whistle, re-
peated two or three times in quick suc-
cession and carrying some distance. At
night the plains are alive with their calls,
picked up, echoed, saddened and magni-
fied by water. Incidentally, the only bird
I have heard uttering the approved “tweet-
tweet” is the swallow.
* ♦ * it:
“F.H.J,”: In Port Lincoln (S.A.) district
there’s a farmer with a sheepdog he
would have gladly given away—before
the bushfires. When the fires came the
farmer battled them till they passed, then
whistled up his dogs and returned to the
farmhouse. His sheep had vanished, so
had Trixie ; some fericing and grass were
gone as well. He was too knocked up
to worry. The wind veered that afternoon
and he made a round of the paddocks to
look for dying sheep. He found Trix
standing guard over his flock. She had
rounded them into a paddock already
burnt and kept them there till the boss
arrived.
.*♦ ♦ ♦
“Lemuel G.”: A mile or so to star-
board of the trawler a white splash shoots
up from the dark blue Tasman. A great
black tail swings up again into the air,
the flukes crashing down to send another
shower of spray flying. A minute or so
later the whale rises again, nearer this
time, and we can see her calf, a 15ft.-
long baby, swimming beside her. He
runs away, turns, charges, leaps clear of
the water and over the mother, crashing
into the water with a smack that should
drive all the breath from his body. Mean-
“We'd 'a' FLATTENED that tree in the old Lizzie!”
while the old lady, her black barnacled
back and pale belly flashing in the sun,
is rolling over and over, the great tail
smashing into the water. The calf swims
round her, under her, flings himself into
the air and over her back again and
again, coming alongside occasionally to
nudge her sides with a square, blunt head.
Mamma, for all her ponderous majesty,
seems almost kittenish in her gambolling.
She sounds, surfaces, puffs up a plume
of spray and is gone again before the
calf’s next rush brings him to where she
was a moment before. The game goes
“Come on, come on—this isn't a Housing Commission job!”
on for a half-hour or more, and then —
perhaps they’ve sighted the boat—they
sound, and the ocean’s quiet. When
you’ve watched a show like that you feel
you’d be a lot happier if there weren’t
such things as chasers and harpoon-guns
waiting for the players farther up the
coast.
♦ * * *
“Pip Tok”: Latest oddity in Perth
Museum is a snake-lizard. It has a total
length from head to tail of 9|in., but
the body is only 2±in. long, .with a thick-
ness of one-sixth of an inch. The scales
are raised in parallel ridges which run
from head to tail. The new arrival is
the tenth known specimen of an extremely
rare species, and the sixth to reach the
Perth Museum, Its two immediate pre-
decessors were found intact in the stomach
of a magpie, shot near Mandurah (W.A.).
The Australian Museum has two speci-
mens, the British and Leyden (Holland)
museums one each.
» ♦ • ♦
“Laetitia”; We kids in Charleville (Q.)
were viewing a local product who, un-
announced, stalked into town one day
after some 15 years’ ephemeral existence
in the fastness of the Carnarvon ranges,
some 50 miles away. Clad mostly in his
flowing mane and whiskers, he non-
chalantly struck matches on the soles of
his feet, and fondled several black snakes
which peeped shyly from the recesses of
his beard. Because of the correctness of
his bearing he presented a poser for the
local police, who could not charge him
with creating a disturbance despite the
crowds which milled around him. The
only objection to his presence came from
“The Possum,” who had established his
claim to fame by regularly shinning up
any one of the trees of the town’s stately
avenues of cedars, despite a full cargo of
hops and the additional handicaps of leg-
gings and elastic-side boots, and sleeping
it off in his airy cubicle. To us a man
with snakes in his beard was far superior
to a pole-sitter.
“Chuck”: “Coming round to the
rubbidy, George?” Hal invited after tea.
“I can get in any time. They know me
pretty well round there. Watch and I’ll
show y’ how it’s done.” As Hal’s car
pulled up outside the local, a figure
detached itself from the darkness of the
veranda and mooched with apparent aim-
lessness close by the vehicle. “Stop where
y’ are,” hissed a voice, before the figure
disappeared again into the shadows,
“That’s old Charlie, drunk again,”
laughed Hal. “Must think he’s a hold-up
gent, this time. Yair, works for the pub.
C’mon ; this door.” As the pair made
down the passage towards the bar, old
Biddy appeared from a side room, paused,
then jerked a thumb meaningly back at
the door whence they had come. “Not
on your life,” sniffed Hal. “Anyway,
you’ve got no authority. Don’t take any
notice of her, George,” he instructed
largely. Then: “Hello, who didn’t fidish
their beer?” he queried. “Better grab
one o’ these half-empty glasses, George.
Bung’s always short o’ glasses. All right,
all right, get out o’ the way, Biddy.” And
the pair stepped boldly into the midst of
the police-raid and had their names taken
with all the rest.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: I see by the papers that
Mildura, biggest town on the Murray,
is being aerial-sprayed against mosquitoes,
which are pretty bad this year along
the river because all the backwaters and
billabongs are full after the floods. But
I won’t have it that, as someone claims,
Mildura cops mossies worse than any
other place on the river or that it has
the biggest buzzers. I’ve been in pretty
well every waterside town, hamlet and
camp in the Riverina, met and overcome
the best they could do in mosquitoes,
sandflies, hummers, liars and big fish —
with one exception. My introduction to
the exception occurred one night. We’d
got in tired and dusty from Wintong, got
a room at the Shamrock, bathed, had a
couple of drinks and went to bunk. Was
just about off when a brass-band started
somewhere out in the street and came
toward us. “Hey, Jack,” I called to the
room-mate. “Listen t’ the band. Must
be something on.” Jack sat up, listened,
jumped out and began to dress. “Come
on,” he urged, “Get goin’. Get yourself
covered. That’s no bliddy brass-band.
I been here before. They’ll be here in
a minute.” So, because of Jack’s know-
ledge, I was armored when the flying
horde from the ’Bidgee hit Balranald
that night. Yes, Balranald’s the excep-
tion, and if you don’t believe me study
the next Balranald resident you meet.
That baked look is from sleeping in
galvanised-iron pyjamas every summer.
IN THE ORANGE RUN
N.S.W.
Last evening’s fire
Has not quite lost
Heat, though the ground
Is white with frost.
The stones are hot
And the hand that reaches
To tidy the fire-site
Warms in the ashes.
The hand that reaches
Feels more warm
Than ash, something wriggling
Beneath its palm.
There! No higher
Than the white cropped grass—
First morning’s legend,
Marsupial mice!
With kangaroo bodies
And kangaroo bound
They hurdle rake handle
Lying on the ground.
—Oh I was a giant
But in that half
Second’s surprise
Became a dwarf,
Too slow to follow
Where they had gone
Over the miles of
Unfenced plain.
No one believed
A word I said.
“ ’Roos in Pennant Hills?
You must be mad!”
NANCY KEESING.


“Mat’s Mate”: We had a day-wage
job chipping weeds out of an irrigation
channel. We were within sight of the
boss’s house and quickly noticed that if
he wasn’t watching us his missus was,
and if neither had an eye on us one or
other of their kids did. We stood it for
a couple of days, then Mat evolved a
plan. Next morning we chipped away
for a while, then Mat said, “Let her go,
mate, he’s watching.” I dropped my
shovel, waved my arms about, jumped
around. Mat waved back at me. Then
we flew into each other. Mat had me
down and was pretending to punch me
apart when the boss and one of his kids
arrived, breathless. “What’s this?
What’s this?” he demanded. We came
apart. Mat sat on the channel-bank and
growled, “Aw, me silly mate there
reckoned you and y’r family couldn’t
stop watchin’ us because we was such
good toilers. So we got arguin’ an’ had
a few hits.” The boss took about 3|
minutes taking it in, then he went silently
away. If there was any more watching
after that it was camouflaged.
* * * *
“The Missus”; Don’t be worried if a
python grabs you. Simply turn to page
59 of We Went to Australia, by David
Walker (published by Chapman and Hall),
and read, “How to Deal with a Python.”
“That’s as green as it gets, lady.”
The instructions, it is claimed, derive
from the custom practised by the natives
of New Guinea. To begin with, one
must never walk abroad without a dry and
brittle stick. When the python traps you
in its coils, “keep perfectly still and break
the stick with your free hand.” Having
achieved this complex feat you will find
that the sound of the breaking stick leads
the python to believe that the bones of
its victim are crushed. It reduces its
pressure and uncoils. “For a python
always drinks water before a heavy meal.”
While .the reptile goes off for its drink
the dinner makes good its escape. But
don’t blame me if this doesn’t work.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Broadcast announcement
of the names of four citizens who cor-
rectly estimated the dressed-weight of the
fat bullock at Melbourne Show took me
back to childhood. Even then the fat
bullock was an institution and, for me, a
landmark to be looked for from year to
. Not that our family ever hoped
to w j n t he tenner for guessing his weight,
but because, on arrival at the grounds,
Mum’s first admonition to us was always:
“Now, if anyone gets lost, make for the
fat bullock’s pen and wait there. I’ll
"Well, I gotter Wave SOME thing, ’ avert’ t I?”
come along and get you sooner or later.”
Judging by the number of kids we met
hanging round the spot other mothers
must have said the same thing.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: There’s a similarity
between penguins and musk-ducks. Both
give the impression of being furred rather
than feathered ; both are more at home
in the water than out of it. The penguin
is now completely flightless, and the
musk-duck looks as though it soon will
be. Musk-ducks have a glossy, seal-hke
covering, and their tails are like penguins
—short and composed of stiff, narrow
feathers. They seem to get all their food
by diving, so presumably they live on
animal, rather than vegetable, life.
They’re seldom found north of the south-
west corner in W.A. Could they at one
time have been Antarctic birds which, as
they found themselves becoming flight-
less, abandoned the annual migration that
the penguins still make and took up per-
manent residence in a latitude where they
could endure the weather throughout the
year?
* * * *
H. A. Lindsay: There is definite
evidence that the Ice Ages were caused
by variations of the earth’s orbit (B.
15/10/’52). In 1930 the mathematician
Milankovitch calculated the movements
of the major planets around the sun
during the past million years. In 1938
he revised his figures a little to allow for
the influence of the newly-discovered
planet Pluto. These calculations show
that the gravitational pull of the other
planets does influence the earth’s orbit J
at times it is drawn farther from the sun,
at others it goes closer to it. His calcula-
tions correspond in a marked way with
geological evidence regarding warm and
cold phases in the history of the earth
during the same period. F. Zeuner, in
The Pleistocene Period, uses these calcula-
tions, and he refers to them again in
Dating the Past. More and more
evidence is being gathered which shows
that Milankovitch is on the right
track. Sprigg, the Assistant Government
Geologist in S. Australia, read a paper
to a recent geological conference which
dealt with the marine terraces of the
south-eastern portion of S.A., and here
again there is found to be a close correla-
tion between the calculations of Milan-
kovitch and geological evidence regard-
ing the rise and fall of ocean levels during
the Ice Ages.
* * * *
“B.”: Simpkins, Gippsland cocky, en-
gaged two local shearers for his small
shed. They wanted to doss at the home-
stead ; Simpkins said it couldn’t be done
because his wife wasn’t well and since
they had a car they could come and go
in 10 minutes. The shearers argued for
a while and then gave in. On the morn-
ing of the start, with everything ready,
the shearers didn’t arrive until 8.30. Next
morning it was the same, the following
morning it was nearly 9 o’clock. Simpkins
bucked. “Whatcha growlin’ at? Y’re
only payin’ for the number we shear,”
shrugged one. “Me and Bob is heavy
sleepers and we can’t wake up without
no one to call us.” Simpkins mentally
calculated the wages per hour of a picker-
up and a woolclasser, and that night the
shearers slept at his house.
“C. Towers”: There’s not a sea-bird
in sight when the net slides over the
stern of the trawler, eight or ten miles
off the N.S.W. coast, but the first clatter
of the winch hauling it aboard brings a
cloud of mollyauks and mutton-birds.
The mutton-birds, brown bundles of
feathers with bright, beady eyes, heave-
to in the best positions close alongside.
The black-and-white mollyauks, waiting
to use their weight, float majestically a
few yards further out. The mutton-birds
brawl and chivvy each other incessantly.
Occasionally two mollyauks spar up,
great wings spread, hooked yellow beaks
gaping, harsh voices screaming. The cod-
end of the net rises astern, packed with
fish; the mollyauks cluster round it,
gazing hungrily; one, tempted beyond
endurance, pecks at it, retires looking dis-
gusted. Then the net’s aboard and the
fish are being sorted. The small ones
go over the side and the fun’s on. The
mutton-birds gobble as fast as they can,
or flee flapping madly before a mollyauk
who covets the fish they’ve seized. Now
they’re all in together, gulping madly,
swimming beside the boat, looking up
and squawking like barnyard fowls for
more. For half an hour it’s a mad gorge,
until you wonder how they can hold so
much fish and i still float, and then all s
quiet until the next lot comes up. Ive
never yet seen any of those birds hunting
for fish on its own account as do the
gulls and gannets. What beats me is
how they lived before the whiteman s
trawlers came and brought them the
blessings of the Welfare State.
* * * *
“Pel”; Now, as near asT can recollect,
the iwo-bar-nine cannon company was
up north in 1943 or 1944, and the officers
plbnk had shortly before disappeared
without a trace, just before a gala day put
on by the C.O. and his galahs, and the
main attraction was a race over 100 yards
between Cokey Smith, pride of the unit,
and Gunsm,oke, the equine pride of the
Gulf country. Can’t say whether Cokey
had a start or vice versa, but when the
gun went Off. it gave us all a start, be-
cause we had been building roads for so
long we had forgotten what a loud noise
was like. G unsmoke reared at the report,
and Horrie, the jockey, swore the starter
shot at Gunsmoke. While the starter
swore at Horrie, Cokey shot out of the
holes and Gunsmoke, when he got over
his initial fright, set off after him. I
think the race went the distance with both
competitors tiring very badly towards the
finish, but I wouldn’t like to say who
won. Could have been won by the bloke
on the bike if there was a bike in it.
As I said, the officers’ plonk had dis-
appeared the night before and a man
can’t remember everything.
* * * *
A Construction Job
He was erecting his web early to be
ready for the sundown trade.
He’d already laid down the spoke-like
portion and was now putting the flooring-
boards down, going , round and round
the outside of the job like a reaper-and-
binder, but with an arm coming out like
a piston and in action like the clutching-
hand of a linotype machine, which, when
he came to each spoke, stopped for the
fraction of a second to riVet the web
on to the spoke, swung back to the
machine again, took in a fresh load of
web, swung out again, went on to the
next spoke, welded, or riveted the join,
and went on again.
On completing the circuit I fancy I
saw him measuring the exact width be-
tween layers ; but as the Aboriginalities
pages have no space for anything but
the truth, I will say no more on that
point.
He went round and round, non-stop,
until he’d built-in up to the middle of
the web, where he left a space about an
inch wide and there deposited a load of
concrete or plaster and, the job now
nearing completion, went olf somewhere
for some private reason of his own. He
was not long away, though, and, back
on the job again, did some plastering
and cementing round about the front-
door, using up all of the building materials
that had been lying round.
This done, he seemed to be doing a
bit of painting and decorating of some
sort, and, as far as I could make out,
was putting the number of his place on
his front-door, or the name of his house
on the front-gate.
My friend, the late C. J. Dennis, who
was a great spider fan, declared that some
spiders look upon the building of a web
in much the same way as a poet looks
upon the writing of a poem, an artist on
painting a picture or a composer on turn-
ing out a symphony, as a work of art,
and sign their webs!
So maybe my spider was signing his
name, or writing his name on his latest
masterpiece.
However, the job was done, and when i
left he was standing at his front-door
waiting. Next morning I noticed that he’d
caught what must have been a bullock
to him, for he’d caught the biggest catch
I’ve ever seen in a web. It was a huge
moth, and he’d had to legrope it from
every angle and, apart from the leg-
ropes, had tied it up, riveted, bolted,
screwed, nailed and concreted it in until
it looked like a miniature of the Harbor
bridge.
I’d have liked to see him getting the
first legrope on his catch, but when I
arrived he’d done the job and all i coma
see now was Mr. Spider leaning over his
back-fence, all his arms stretched out
wide, telling the bloke next-door o
big h . Hack..
THERE A.M. AND A DOVE
CALLING
At midnight stars were brighter;
but now that they fail,
the lights of the town with a pale
malevolent purpose B lea ™ w K l ' r ’ ’ -
Three by the clock on the wall.
All was silent until
I heard a startled call
from the crow’s-ash by my sill
a dove in the branches calling
like the sound of water falling.
There’s a hint of far-off thunder,
and 1 wait in the murk and wondei
what woke the bird from slumber.
Was it the shake of boughs
by a breeze, a stalker? Fright
at something gone by in the night.
Was it response to the gleam
of far-off lamps? Or a dream
compact of breathing flowers
through urgent fiery hours,
and showers westward blowing/ . . «
the old September potion
that sets furled wings in motion.
She is silent now, with sleep
on her eyelids a dark presence.
But I in fancy see
her drowsy shape in the tree.
She will be small and grey,
with a moonstone iridescence.
The starlight’s folds become her.
O Dove, make the most of your summer.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


Famous For Its Finish
FLOR
PBO/55
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
From Australia—to all 8 Continents
r VI r
fIYBOAi
Swift, sure, 8.0.A.C. Speedbird services link 51
countries on all six continents . . . save days, even
weeks of travelling time. You fly without delay—
on one ticket all the way. Four-engined Speedbird
aircraft are pressurized for smooth, above the weather
flying. You relax in deep-seated comfort, enjoy
complimentary meals and meal-time drinks, and
courteous, friendly attention. No tips or extras for
traditional Speedbird service.
Ami
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA • HONG
KONG . JAPAN . CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
MIDDLE EAST . AFRICA • EUROPE • GREAT BRITAIN
U.S.A. • CANADA . CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
BERMUDA
m won id
B.O.A.C.—first with the
Comet services now operating
Qhh&
Johannesburg—London, Co So m bo—London,
and Singapore—London, are forerunners of
world-wide 8.0.A.C. Jetliner services.
Information & Bookings ; Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., ( B.CKA.C .
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Damn
or from travel agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
A3O/AUC
Business.Rollery.Etc.
In the Doldrums
The sharemarket remains in
the doldrums. There has been
no trend definite enough so far
to encourage sustained stimula-
tion of demand; and the
immediate past history of the
market —the last couple of years
of the boom—suggests that many
post-war “investors” require
excitement as well as income to
draw them to the market.
Recently there has been no
excitement. Hard facts are
beginning to rule the prices for
Stock Exchange securities the
same as they are influencing the
whole economy.
The interest-rate is still an
uncertain quantity, and in an
investment market where income
is how of paramount importance
(capital-appreciation being so
rare an event) the interest yield
is an influential factor in the
price of first-class shares. The
real squeeze resulting from de-
ficiencies in our economy is now
on. Our costs are too high, our
production too low, and our
surplus (savings) too small. On
top of this squeeze we have a
crying need for capital goods to
provide for our development,
which makes the demand for
capital finance greater still. That
is why the interest-rate is under
such upward pressure.
On the other hand, the investor
who is prepared to wait over a
long term for his benefits can
scarcely go wrong buying with
discretion in today’s market. As
has been mentioned several times
here. Bank of N. S. Wales shares
may be bought at a price equiva-
lent to the book-value of the
an asset-backing equal, or there-
some of those assets were bought
as far back as 1817, Masonite
ords. yield over 6.2 p.c. at 40s.
A large number of old-estab-
lished concerns may be bought
into to show a good return and
asset backing equal, or there-
abouts, to the market-price. As
a rule, a search among the
second-line industrials will repay
the trouble. The new R. B.
Davies issue will be worth
watching, as will be some others.
“Rights” have latterly presented
the cheapest way of buying into
an industrial stock.
Interest and Capital
Central-bank comment on in-
terest-rates, the capital market
and the volume of money;
From early 1951 heavy selling
pressure developed among holders of
Government securities. Despite strong
efforts by the Central Bank to sup-
port the market, at the end of the
year the long-term yield was about
4% p.c., compared with 3£ p.c. in
June, 1951.
Controls over capital issues had
been reinstituted by the Common-
wealth Government in February,
1951,. in order to keep investment
plans within the limits of available
resources and to give priority to
defence and other essential projects.
As a result, there was a considerable
decline in new capital issues in
1951-52.
Government - security prices have
fallen far less during the year than
ordinary-share prices.
The volume of money in Australia
fell by £4B million (2 p.c.) during
the year, compared with increases of
£3BB million (19 p.c.) in 1950-51 and
£2BO million (16 p.c.) in 1949-50.
This is the first year since the out-
break of World War II in which
there has not been an increase in
the money-supply. As the following
figures show, deposits with cheque-
paying banks fell, with the other
components of the money-supply
rising:—
June —£ million
1939 1951 1952
Notes in hands of
public .. .. 33 239 265
Deposits of public
with all cheque-
paying banks .. 334 1371 1242
Deposits with all
savings banks .. 246 837 892
613 2447 2399
The great increase in money-sup-
plies during and after the war has
undoubtedly been a source of infla-
tionary pressure. Its significance,
however, is affected by changes in
population, in prices and in pro-
ductivity per head. The following
figures show the relationship between
the money-supply and the aggregate
value of output:
P.c. of
Gross
Volume of National
Money Product
£ million %
1939 .. 613 .. 67
1945 .. 1357 .. 94
1950 .. 2059 .. 76
1951 .. 2447 .. 68
1952 .. 2399 .. 62
The last line in the table
would suggest that money as a
source of inflationary pressure in
itself is losing strength. But the
costs spiral is still very potent,
“National Development ,,
“P. Mobile”; Despite the fact
that every worth-while discovery
of deposits of uranium in Aus-
tralia has been made by private
prospectors with, at best, simple
and portable apparatus, or by
State departments with limited
staff and equipment, the Com-
monwealth Department of
National Development is now
planning to increase its already
large staff of geophysicists and
geologists with the object of
widely extending its search for
radioactive deposits by airborne
scintillometer.
While this method is at once
both the most comfortable and
the most costly means of measur-
ing, rather vaguely, the strength
and areal extent of surface radio-
activity, the ease of observation,
unfortunately, is not accom-
panied by ease of the interpreta-
tion of the results, in any com-
mercial sense. It is not remark-
able, therefore, that the Bureau
of Mineral Resources is attempt-
ing to add to its present staff by
the addition of yet another senior
geophysicist “to take charge of
field laboratory and office
investigations of the airborne
scintillometer group.” The salary
offered ranges from £1328 to
£l4lB, and even the higher figure
is much too low to attract any
experienced geophysical inter-
preter with a previous record of
successful application.
The bureau is also seeking
“about 10 other geophysicists to
work in Darwin and Melbourne,
some of whom will take charge
of parties in field and laboratory
radiometric investigations,” As
the range of salary offered is
from £794 to £1238 only, appli-
cation by raw recruits to applied
science is the best that can be
expected.
The announcement contains a
solitary gleam of hope in the
statement that the Government
will consider making advances to
private prospectors to assist the
exploitation of their discoveries.
Even with very much more
generous treatment than that
which they have received in the'
past, the fossickers’ record to
date shows that they can do the
job much more successfully and
at a much lower price, even if
more slowly, than the bureau
with its very expensive equip-
ment and its large payroll, which
is high in spite of the fact that
individual salaries for the class
of work expected are low.
“Then she says— ‘You think more of your art than
you do of me ”
Retrospective Tax
“K.Mc.”: I recently became
interested in a partnership, and
those Sydney “Telegraph”
articles accusing Sir Arthur
Fadden of making partnership
taxation retrospective to July,
1950, had me worried. Then my
local member sent me a copy of
the “Memorandum and Ex-
planatory Notes” of recent taxa-
tion amendments.
Section 36, which covers the
disposal of trading stock, con-
tains no retrospective reference
whatever. While Section 36a (a
new one) contains two temporary
retrospective clauses, the func-
tion of this section is to ease the
burden of taxation on partner-
ships—not to increase tax. The
explanatory note reads “There
will be no authority to apply the
section as to increase the liability
to tax in an assessment already
issued,” The retrospective
clauses give a taxpayer who has
been assessed at market-value on
trading stock transferred since
July 1, 1950, an opportunity to
have his assessment amended on
the basis that the stock were dis-
posed of at “book”-values.
This concession is subject to
two provisions: (1) That he
retains at least a 25 p.c. interest
in the stock, and (2) that all the
parties concerned unanimously
agree that the trading stock be
taken into account as though no
“disposal” bad taken place.
The purpose of the much-
abused retrospective legislation
is thus to ease the tax burden
on persons who have been
assessed on unrealised profits.


Merchandise Manager
Required for Fiji
by leading Commercial firm, to take
charge of merchandising section
(wholesale and retail) at one of the
more important island Branches.
Must have good all-round knowledge
of Grocery, Hardware, Drapery, etc.,
and experience in overseas indenting,
stock control, sales promotion, etc.
Man with country store experience
preferred.
Salary according to qualifications.
Furnished quarters available to suc-
cessful applicant.
Apply in first instance by letter
only, with copy of references, to —
G.P.O. Box No. 543, Sydney.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices!
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
*m> PERTH
u8
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•\
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
18 O’Gonnell Street
(Box 1. 0.P.0.), Sydney,
p. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
From a hanker’s diary TSo. 8
Wednesday: Mr.BBBi , an oversea
buyer representing British and Far
Eastern companies, was introduced
by one of our Commercial Relations
Officers. He asked to be put in
touch with manufacturers of
certain goods.
m
m
Local knowledge helps
All over. Australia, the “Wales” has branches
and agencies through which we are able to keep
observant eyes on local conditions. In the case
of Mr. r- " we were able to arrange for
immediate introductions to manufacturers who
produce the goods he needs. So we were of
assistance both to the overseas buyer and to
our customers and thus helped to increase
Australian exports.
You, too, should consult and use—
f
V W
9oi
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5218C
jrtcf
HEMMI
Bamboo Slide Rules
available in both conventional
Mannheim and Duplex types, com-
bined with Engine Divided Scales oi
the utmost precision and accuracy.
E. ESDAILE & sons; ::,
42 Hunter St., Sydney. BW 8631.
HEMMI Slide Rules
are constructed from
laminated bamboo in
both stock and slide.
The wide range avail-
able ensures the selec-
tion of a rule for
every application.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Forty-hour Economy
Since the employment tide
began to ebb, Maoriland
employers and labor-leaders
have realised that the basic
assumptions, contentions and
theories behind the 40-hour week
will soon be put to a real and
decisive test, after more than 15
years of more-or-less easy pros-
perity, except in the war years.
Overfull employment, which
stood in the way and padded
wages with fat overtime pay-
ments for so long, is going, more
slowly than in most countries,
but fast enough to make slackers
and wasters take notice of the
trend. Maorilanders can thank
their primary-producers, who
have never been on the 40-hour
week, for the gradualness of the
change, which gives time for
every worker worth his salt to
show that he is of use in industry,
before it is too late.
If the movement is reason-
ably under control it can still go
as far in the long run, and N.Z.
can’t get away from the fact that
it’s a pioneering country unable,
at this stage, to afford a 40-hour
week. Outside observers might
have overlooked some factors
which have made it possible for
M.L. to amble along on short
hours while Australia, which
didn’t take the plunge until a
few years ago, soon got into
trouble. For one thing N.Z.
went cautiously at first, and
when the war came industry was
placed smartly on an overtime
basis, which meant that the 40-
hour week was virtually shelved,
except that all hours beyond 40
were paid for at fancy rates.
When the war was over the
cream continued to flow in the
form of time and a half, double
or even treble rates for over-
tinje, according to the hours a
man was on the job. No one
seemed to worry greatly about
the effect on costs until fairly
recently, and many still refuse to
believe that pay on this scale,
regardless of whether men pull
their weight or not, has been a
main cause of the inflation that
is making costs so unwieldy
today.
The original idea was that out-
put wouldn’t suffer through a cut
in hours, because men would do
more per hour. It hasn’t panned
out like this. On the contrary,
hourly output has fallen in many
directions, with effects on costs
inversely proportionate to the
fall, and with long weekends, a
three-week annual close-down
and morning- and aftemoon-tea
breaks all contributing to general
drift.
Today it’s the strength of
Maoriland’s dairying, meat-
producing and wool industries
that is saving the 40-hour week
from collapse, and as export pro-
duction for the new season is
running at record level, stimu-
lated to some extent by record
prices for meat, butter and
cheese, it’s quite on the cards
that Maorilanders may be able
to avoid facing the issue
squarely for a while yet. Prob-
ably the safest forecast is that
the 40-hour week will last until
prosperity takes a real knock,
but no longer.
Need for Capital
For most Maorilanders the
biggest hope on the eve of the
London economic conference is
that this will break the deadlock
in the capital market which is
throttling the little Dominion so
far as development works,
schemes and projects are con-
cerned.
From Prime Minister Sid
Holland downwards, Maori-
landers are wanting an answer
to the question that has been
more or less on everyone’s lips,
up and down the country, for
months past —“Where can New
Zealand get loan money?” Mr.
Holland would like to see a Com-
monwealth pool of capital
created to meet the needs of all
sterling countries, but he hasn’t
been able to figure out where
the funds are to be found. Bar-
ring this, he and most others
agree there’s nothing for it but
to make a deal with Uncle Sam.
The trouble here is that N.Z.
isn’t a member of the World
Bank, and is still as divided as
ever over the question of
membership. Maoriland’s lead-
ing economists are all for join-
ing, and businessmen, who take
a realistic view of things where
money is involved, are coming
round, too, but politically New
Zealand is still split from top to
bottom —so much so that neither
party in Parliament dares to raise
the issue on the floor of the
House.
A top expert, Dr. H. Belshaw,
traces the opposition to “patho-
logical suspicions, emanating
largely from the underworld of
currency cranks,” and to “mis-
guided sentimentalism, which
impedes improvements in living
standards.” A lot of innocent
people are misled by this sloppy
nonsense, and can’t tell the dif-
ference between it and sound
reason.
Earlier in the year another
high-ranking expert, Dr. C. G. F.
Simkin, put forward a plea for
give-and-take, in “second-
thoughts on Bretton Woods,”
and said: “Membership has not
harmed other countries, and
would not harm New Zealand.
So far these institutions have
done little to fulfil their
founders,' hopes, but that is not
their fault, because they were
designed for a world which, it
was thought, would return
quickly to ‘normal’ after the
war, ‘Normality,’ unfortunately,
seems a long way off. ...What
we have to decide is whether we
feel it our duty and interest to
assist other countries in develop-
ing these institutions, which, after
all, are real and valuable embodi-
ments of the vital principle of
international economic co-opera-
tion. We have also to decide
whether we wish now, or in the
conceivable future, to borrow
from the fund or the bank. If
we do, we shall have to join, but
that would be a poor reason
unless we were convinced on
wider grounds that membership
was worth-while.”
Dollars and Trade
Any country that sets out to
reach a surplus in its balance of
payments is looking for trouble
these days, however well-
intentioned its motives. Maori-
land has been learning this since
it undertook at the last London
conference, in what seemed at
the time a rather rash spirit, to
build up a £25 million surplus
with non-sterling countries by
June, 1953.
Other sterling partners were
all in favor of N.Z. aiming at
this mark, above all if it would
help to earn scarce dollars, even
if they doubted whether it could
get there; but lately it has
lowered its sights to £l2 million.
There could be a variation of
millions either way through ups
or downs in dollar purchases of
wool and foodstuffs, which are
notoriously unpredictable, and
everything depends on how trade
goes along.
Most of the obstacles are at
the dollar end. Maoriland has
extraordinary producing capacity
in all its main exports, and has
an efficient sales organisation for
dairy-produce and meat, as well
as wool, to back up the effort
on the farms; but rivalry is
growing keener on the selling
side, even among two such
closely-related members as the
Dominions on this side of the
world. It was a bit of a shock
to Maorilanders to hear an Aus-
tralian Minister giving them
more than a hint lately not to be
quite so quick to “hop in” when-
ever Australia found new food-
stuffs markets.
As they saw it, there was no
chance of making headway
against the dollar drift unless all
sterling partners were on their
toes all the time, and M.L., as ]
the biggest exporter of butter
and meat, couldn’t sit back. If
it did, it might as well forget its
dollar target. As it is, Uncle
Sam’s butter embargo, cheese
quotas, sudden moves against
meat, and the October threat of
an import fee on wool have been
more than enough setbacks for
one year. Wool is N.Z.’s main
dollar-earner, as it is Australia’s,
though more important relatively,
and because of the blow in
this quarter roused Maorilanders
more, to the point of reminding
the Yanks of their formal inter-
national trade and tariff obliga-
tions, The way it strikes Maori-
land is that if dollars are ever
to be freely earned and the
dollar-sterling tangle unravelled,
trade will have to go along a lot
more smoothly.
Whakatane Board Mills
Profits from wood-pulp and
paper-board products have con-
tinued to come the way of
Whakatane Board Mills, Ltd.,
Maoriland’s pioneer in these
lines, although falling prices
abroad and the keenest competi-
tion yet forced the co. on the
defensive in its latest term (to
June 30). All in all the co.
came through creditably, with a
profit peak of £95,398, enough
to pay the 5 p.c. div. (£53,983)
and give another good lift to
reserves.
Year by year since the
first div. in ’4B the co. has
done its bit to prove that enter-
prise based on forestry in
Maoriland can pay its way. At
the moment it’s wrestling with
a rather troublesome overseas
supply position and dependence
on outsiders for some key raw
materials, but it plans to get on
to firmer ground by setting up a
plant of its own to turn out
semi-chemical pulp within a
year or two. This, and a second
machine to duplicate the present
production unit, will cost the
best part of a million. The co,
is able to face this with reserve
value in fixed assets bought in
earlier years at costs which now
look low.
To safeguard divs. until
it gets over the hurdle ahead,
£75,000 has been stowed
away in a div. reserve. It con-
templates borrowing on mort-
gage during installation, followed
by another share-issue in 1954.
When fully equipped it shouldn’t
have much difficulty coping with
all M.L, demands for its output,
and should have a small surplus,
to boot.
Here’s the trend over eight
years;
Tax
Gross Net Depre- pro-
June profit, profit, ciation. vision.
30, £ £ £ £
1945 . 182,055 11,279 48,790 73,582
1946 . 116,593 12,339 37,568 22,595
1947 . 217,425 31,763 52,262 77,514
1948 . 274,328 57,715 44,030 112,000
1949 . 245,700 57,741 47,281 79,750
1950 . 320,785 75,653 48,400 115,750
1951 . 370,205 90,134 42,965 144,870
1952 . 360,207 95,398 47,039 151,358
A profitable sideline until
lately was sawmilling, but
M.L.’s market is temporarily
overloaded since Australia
switched most of its demand to
Baltic pine. In this all timber
cos. have been more or less hit
and are waiting for the tide to
come their way again.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Yoang Streets, Sydney
Modern bigh-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Doable Booms—
From 84/- per night
Telegrams , Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE.”
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
ffl
111
»i 11 II
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane
Queensland.
“ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send *or
Bulletin
and Price
iii
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ere
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (Aus.), Ltd.
r, „ To Re- Re-
Jime, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ jg
142.901 10 p.c. = 98.552 44,349 634,254
1946., 143.027 8 „ „ 78,842 64,185 598,439
To reserves a/c goodwill telecom-
munications, £1,120,828 .. 1,719,267
Reserves capitalised, £1,120,828.. 698,439
Intangibles disappear, £49,067 .. 647,506
Net surplus a/c tangibles. £60,676.. 708,182
82 > 959 8 pc. = 88,508 49,451 767,633
1948 -- 9°,578 12 „ „ 50,261 40,317 797,950
Share premiums, £96,624 .. .. 894,574
1W9,. 98,886 12 p.c. = 50,261 48,624 943,198
Share premiums, £78,876 .. ..1,021,574
1950 ‘'ai 28,116 Hi P-C. = 68,776 61,339 1,082,913
Share premiums, £166,939 .. 1,249,852
J 9 "H* 149,938 114 p.c. = 73,036 76,902 1,326,754
1952.. 156.398 Ilf „ „ 88,470 71.928 1,898.682
•After deducting intangibles, now £86,811.
Excludes depreciation reserve (now £1,046,584).
In 1946 A.W.A.’s paid capital was
£985,518 in £1 shares. Following the
sale of its telecommunication service for
£1,400,000 a year later, the company paid
out 575. 7d, cash per £1 share held pri-
vately, and of this 11s. 6d. represented a
return of capital. The Government’s
shareholding (then 51 p.c.) was also
written-down by a similar amount and
paid-up capital fell to £418,845 in Bs.
6d. units. There followed two issues of
350,000 shares in 1949 and 333,879 in
1950, both at a premium of 10s. a share,
and now, by the issue of 1,669,397 bonus
shares of Is. 6d. each (one for one), paid
capital is to rise to £843,699, to be in
10s. units. The bonus issue absorbs
£125,205 (37 p.c.) of the share-premium
reserve in the books.
In August, 1951, Government interest
in the co. was withdrawn, its 853,936
shares being sold for 455. each. Although
price of the shares subsequently fell to
275. (there was a general market decline
over the period), the low yield continually
accepted on the scrip stands testimony to
investors’ faith in the company.
Sale of the Beam service, which was a
valuable asset, marked the ending of a
profitable era. Since, the emphasis
has been on manufacturing, activities
falling into four main groups: (1)
Broadcast transmitters, radar, fre-
quency-modulation apparatus, indus-
trial aids, etc.; (2) broadcast-receivers,
amplifiers, public-address systems, etc.;
(3) vehicular-operated traffic-signals,
marine and aerial navigation instruments,
etc.; (4) components for other manufac-
tures. In addition, the co. is interested
in eight subsidiary and associated under-
takings, operates eight broadcasting-sta-
tions, provides technical services for
others, as well as aircraft and marine
navigational services, and holds some
3000 patents covering radio, radar and
television. For the decade prior to sale
of the Beam service dividends averaged
9.7 p.c.; for the six years following the
rate has been 11.25 p.c.
Allowing for the bonus issue, reserves
of £1,273,477 (15s. 9d. per 10s. unit)
support paid capital. This figure ignores
a depreciation reserve of £1,045,584 held
against fixed assets of £1,594,040, which
appear at cost, according to the balance-
sheet. The figure collectively represents
the co.’s 12-story building in the heart of
Sydney, the freehold and technically,
efficient plant of the Ashfield factory, as
well as freeholds, equipment and plant
installations throughout the country.
Reserves also discount £85,811 shown for
patents, goodwill, etc..
A mark of the company’s trading
efficiency is shown in the £5460 rise in
profits last term, despite a £19,375 de-
crease in gross takings (there was a fall
in demand for radios and the like); ex-
penses were reduced by £24,835. ’ No
figure is given for the tax-allowance, but
depreciation at £90,890, although £24,407
less than in 1951, was equal to 59 p.c, of
net earnings. On capital the profit-return
was 21.9 p.c., which compares with 24,1,
22,5 and 21.6 p.c. back to 1949. At Ilf
p.c. (10 p.c. on the new capital) the divi-
dend absorbed £83,470, leaving £71,928
(46 p.c.) to go to reserves.
In the balance-sheet, fixed assets show
a net increase of £67,703:
_ . 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £567,595 £709,494 £709,494
Depreciation reserve., 847,564 956,411 1,045,584
Sundry creditors, etc. 964,362 1,185,736 1,513,194
Final div. ~ .. 38.953 45,213 48,691
Freeholds, etc.* .. 563,595 668.356 571,468
£u ant ' •• 870,608 957,981 1,022,572
Shares in other cos... 184,470 252,350 277,373
Stocks .. .. 1,142,960 1,548,198 2,062,950
Book debts .. .. 722.211 879.133 756,139
Cash, etc 17.545 22,592 25,145
Patents .. .. 85,811 85,811 86,811
* At coat, subject to specific reserves (now
£1,045,584).
The £327,458 rise in the outside debt
resulted from a £548,374 increase in the
overdraft and a £150,324 repayment to
creditors. Stocks over the year rose by
£519,752, shareholdings by £25,023, and
debtors fell by £122,994. The liquid sur-
plus (£1,559,722, including shareholdings)
rose by £93,398.
As the gift-giving has not been over-
done and the earning position very
sound, the market prices the Bs. 6d. shares
at 265. On the present dividend the yield
is 3.9 p.c., which is what the 10s. units
would yield on a 10 p.c.-div. basis.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
r~ Dividends ,
t , „ A Pref -» Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1944.. 45.365 11,724 8,610 7J p.c.= 21,215 88,330
1945.. 42,046 11,724 8,610 „ „ 21,216 88,826
1946.. 51,452 11,724 8,610 7| „ ~ 21,215 98,729
1947.. 63,664 11,724 8,610 7J „ ~ 21,591110,468
Share premiums, £42,052 .. ~ 152,520
1948.. 60,457 11,724 8,610 7i„ ~ 24.781 167,862
1949.. 55,519 11,724 8,610 7| „ „ 27,084 176,018
To contingencies reserve, £lO,OOO .. 186,013
1960.. 67,074 11,724 8,610 7J p.c.= 27,038 205,720
Bevaluation assets, £878,720 .. 684,440
1961.. 102,413 11.724 8,610 10 p.c.= 56,250 610,269
Profit sale assets, £54.158 ;
net addit’n property res., £21,719.. 681,988
1962.. 80,681 11,724 8,610 7} p.o« 65,625 626,560
* After deducting goodwill ( £42,070), written out
of accounts in 1951.
Profits fell by £21,882—£2571 more than
in 1951 was allowed for depreciation
(£16,411) and £55,453 less for taxation
(£60,250). Deducting pref. divs. (£20,334),
earnings were 6.9 p.c. on ord. capital,
which compares with 14,4, 13, 9.8, 12.1
and 11.6 p.c. back to 1947. Including a
2j p.c. reduction in the ord. rate, total
dividends absorbed £5428 more than net
earnings.
With consideration of these results
must also come appreciation, firstly, of the
altered economic conditions which beset
retailers last term, and for Cox Bros,
its obvious need to consolidate rapid
post-war expansion. Trade is mainly in
women’s and men’s clothing, furniture,
furnishings and drapery, etc., partly on
a t.-p. basis.
Price-control and reduced gross-profit
margins operated for the opening months
of toe year, while credit-restrictions, cur-
tailment of overseas finance facilities and
import-restrictions affected the co.’s buy-
ing. A fall in wool prices, tightened
money, and accumulated stocks retarded
sales. Wages, which form a large part
of expenses, rose throughout the year.
Now, with removal of price-control and
credit-restrictions, and the possibility of
a more stable wage-structure in the
coming year, trading prospects look a bit
brighter.
Largest of the co.’s real-estate
acquisitions in the post-war period
was that of the centrally-located
Economic building in Perth, and with it
the business of Economic Stores. The
latter did not become wholly-owned until
January this year, and will be operated
as a separate entity. In Hobart the busi-
ness of A. Cummings and Sons was
bought in 1951, and in Melbourne Peer-
less Modes Pty., mantle manufacturers,
was also taken over. Both businesses
were dovetailed into the network last
term, the manufacturing activities of the
second being sold and the premises altered
to provide space for the buying and
administrative sections. A London office
was opened during the year, and branches
at Horsham and Wangaratta (Vic.), since
the close of accounts. There are now
45 stores —13 in Victoria, 12 in W.A.,
eight in N.S.W., and six each in Tasmania
and South Aus.
Balance-sheet figures of 1951 reflect
the property acquisitions. The £93,304
addition to fixed assets in 1952, was in
connection with refitting and modernising
of premises, while the £33,255 reduction
in freeholds relates to the sale of a Perth
property:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital .. 650.932 650,932 852,990 1,165,490
Mortgages .. 400,000 400,000 902,920 940,500
Overdraft .. 116.943 343,284 598,745 456,482
Creditors .. 77,920 90.525 174,920 232,199
Tax provision.. 40,500 30,000 116,000 98,750
Final divs. .. 23,684 23,683 45,323 53,917
Freeholds .. 474,402 526,235 1,369,289 1,336,034
Leaseholds . . 14.869 26,895 42,942 56,099
Plant .. 90,164 131,261 168,279 248,426
Stocks ~ .. 521,382 545,462 1,004,998 1,183,009
Debtors .. .. 373,687 508,666 704,792 730,526
Cash, bonds ~ 11.488 5,575 10,867 19.804
During the year debtors rose by £25,734
and stocks by £178,011, largely as a result
of the absorption of the Economic Stores
business. Finance for these movements
came £37,580 from mortgages, £57,279
from creditors, and £312,500 from a par
issue of ordinary-stock units, which also
allowed £141,763 to be repaid to the bank
and £8937 more held in cash. Despite
the new funds the outside debt at
£1,629,181 equalled 18s. 2d. for every £1
owned by shareholders at balance-date.
Paid capital has expanded by £592,132
since the war. A profit of £54,158 last
year resulted from sale of portion of a
property in Perth acquired after the war
for £130,000. There are three further
divisions of this land still to be sold.
At 6s. lOd. the ss. ordinary-stock units
yield 5.8 p.c. on the present dividend.
Net asset backing is Bs. 7d. for the ords.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Ke-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942. . 40,664 6 p.c. = 33.000 7,664 128,961
rl’ 715 6 » » 33,000 18,715 147,676
6 » » 33,000 25,310 172,986
MM" 85 ’ 279 7 i» » «,250 24,029 197,015
• • ll’i 23 7i " ” 41,250 30,173 227,188
MM” 7i ” ” 41 > 250 28,816 256,004
| 9 * 8 *- 8 ” » 44,000 31,189 287,193
1949.. 72,583 8 „ „ 44,000 28,583 315,776
From tax reserve, £20,000 .. .. 335 776
Inf?'’ 78,385 10 p.c. = 55.000 21,235 357611
1951. . 86,8/0 10 „ „ 55,000 31,370 388,881
1952.. 58,126 9„ „ 49,500 8,626 397,007
Measured by shareholders’ funds, this
company, operating in The Valley, is
Brisbane’s second - largest department
store.
Gross earnings fell by £4642 last term,
expenses, salaries, etc., rose by £64,897;
and, after reducing the depreciation allow-
ance by £26,295 and the tax provision by
£15,000, the fall in net profits was
£28,244, or 33 p.c. on the 1951 figure;
n . 1950. 1951. 1952.
Gross earnings .. .. £366,023 £639,117 £634,475
Exes. . . 231,845 457,424 522,321
Depreciation .. 12,943 40,323 14.028
Taxation .. .. 45,000 55,000 40,000
Net profit ~ .. 76.235 86.370 58,126
The return on capital was 10.6 p.c., a
rate not seen since 1944; it compares
with 15.7, 13.8, 13.2, 13.6 and 12.7 p.c.
back to 1947. Reduced to 9 p.c., the
dividend absorbed £49,500, leaving an
£8626 margin to add to reserves.
It has been a difficult year for retailers,
and the future, for which costs and turn-
over are the main determinants, is still
somewhat veiled.
In 1949 McWhirters’ ratio of expenses
to gross earnings was 64 p.c. Last term
it was 82 p.c. Over the same period the
basic wage in Brisbane rose by 68 p.c.,
while the company’s expenses (salaries.
wages, advertising, etc.) have risen by
129 p.c. The effect of cost-increases thus
appears to have been fully felt, and with
wages still rising costs will probably go
higher yet.
On the other hand, earnings are likely
to improve. The abolition of price-
control on most lines should allow more
flexible selling, while bank-credit relief
should aid on the inventory side. Further,
that section of the public which closed
its purse during the height of inflation
is now likely to start opening it again,
an attitude traders can profitably en-
courage by a real appreciation of the fact
that a buyers’ market has returned.
Preparing for this, McWhirters’, which
has been in the trade for 46 years, has
laid out £95,360 on fixed assets over the
last four years—much of it on extending
and improving facilities and services. And,
although nothing has been said, the
abnormally high depreciation allowance
of 1951 (£40,323) probably allowed for
some writing-down of the higher-priced
stocks. Return to a final 10 p.c. dividend-
rate after a reduced interim of 8 p.c.
could also reflect better conditions over
the last six months of the year just closed.
In the balance-sheet, stocks were
£29,173 lower at the end of the year than
at the beginning, debtors rose by £16,327
and creditors by £11,425:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £550,000 £550,000 £560,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. 25,186 79,869 223,155 226,908
Creditors . . 43,061 49,657 88,146 99,571
Tax reserve .. 89,373 68,384 84,249 59,996
Final div. .. 22,000 33,000 27,500 27,500
Freehold and
plant . . 461,870 532,578 545,740 557,230
Stocks .. 444,059 438,672 601,873 572,700
Book debts . . 135,920 162,948 209,788 226,065
Cash, etc. ~ 3,549 3,723 4,080 4,987
Fixed assets were increased by £11,490
over the year, and the surplus of current
assets over liabilities (£389,777) fell by
£2864.
Following the reduced interim dividend
the shares touched a post-war “low” of
235. 6d. in April. They have since
recovered to 255. 6d., at which figure the
yield is 7 p.c. on the current dividend.
Book-value of asset backing is 345. sd.
a share.
Frederic Ash, Ltd. (Newcastle)
. . To Re- Re-
June, Profits. t —Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 67,946 15 p.c. = 34,500 33,446 145,989
Net additions, £5471 .. .. .. 151,460
1952.. 68,192 12J p.c. = 33,750 34,442 185,902
The net profit represents 25.3 p.c. on
present capital, compared with 25.1,
19.2, 16.5 and 14 p.c. back to 1948. But
with stocks and the overdraft up, the
directors decided, In view of slackening
business conditions generally, to drop the
dividend from 15 p.c. to 12? p.c. Which
meant that something more than half the
year’s net earnings were ploughed back
into the business.
After nearly 96 years as a private con-
cern the Newcastle (N.S.W.) builders’ and
plumbers’ hardware concern of Frederic
Ash, Ltd., was converted into a public
co. in March last year. Since then those
who took up the £1 shares at 375. 6d.
each have had 4s. 6d. a share in divi-
dends and have seen ss. lOd. added to
the net tangible backing of the scrip,
which now amounts to 335. lOd. a share.
At 41s. the scrip yields 6.1 p.c. on a
12£ p.c. div. basis. It is a well-protected
income.
Profit of £68,192 for the year was _
arrived at after providing £56,000 (up
£2000) for taxation and £2381 (down
£1338) for depreciation. AU taxes have
now been paid up to June, 1951, and,
because of overprovision of private-
company tax for earlier years, a net £5471
was added to reserves, the tax-free por-
tion of which now amounts to £19,300
(Is. sd. per share). The year’s turnover
was a record, but the trading outlook for
the present is less certain.
Established in 1855, in 1887 this paint,
hardware and timber business was con-
verted into a limited co. with a paid


Established 18G8
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oiy 4,
OSUIUVAN
BW’
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
BRAHDAUERS
PENS
m
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
MINE MANAGER.
Applications are invited for the posi-
tion of MINE MANAGER at the
Company’s Mine, Kingston, near Bris-
bane, Queensland. A Degree in
Mining or Diploma from a recog-
nised School of Mines is desirable but
not essential.
Commencing Salary, £1750 per
annum. Free House, Fuel, Water
and Power. Fares will be allowed
for self and family.
Applications, with copies of references,
and particulars stating experience, age,
marital status, should be forwarded to'
The Secretary,
Kingston (Open Cut) Gold Mines
limited,
240 Queen Street, Brisbane.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
♦ * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. - Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.,
TO ALBERT ERNEST McLEAN late of
King’s Cross. —TAKE NOTICE that
ETHEL DOROTHY MAY McLEAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2662 of
1952 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or-excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you might
enter an appearance in the Divorce'
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 15th day of January 1953 .and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ALLAN E. OUPIT & BEST,
Solicitors, of Federal Mutual Chambers,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DO UGH AN,
Registrar.
Public Notice
I, RICHTER (RICH), VILMA, of Hun-
garian nationality, born at Budapest,
Hungary, resident five years in Australia,
now residing at 45 Longueville Road, Larte :
Cove, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
*7 t,.
--i?
■ J
5 . j
c l
c
% *? k
•es c. __ t
V
A familiar scene in Australia in 1869.
dfte
In 1869, in Australia, The National Mutual was
founded . . . bringing financial security, in contrast
to the hazardous fortunes of the goldfields.
Today , the wise investor 9 s first consideration is Life
Assurance . Let us suggest the class of policy to
suit vour needs . Write , c«H, or ring BL 1271
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869 , ‘ (Inc. in Vic.)
350 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
PURELY MUTUAL —ALL PROFITS BELONG TO POLICYHOLDERS ALONE
capital of £30,000. Capital re-
mained at that figure until 1920,
when it was increased to
£150,000, of which £90,000 was
issued for consideration other
than cash. Though another
£120,000 of bonus scrip was put
out during the 1951 conversion,
partly financed from reserved
profits and partly from assets-
revaluation, no cash has been
sought from shareholders for at
least 30 years.
Expansion has been financed
mostly by ploughed-back profits.
Premises in Newcastle have
grown over the years, and in
1910 a branch was established at
Lismore. Another was opened
at Cessnock in 1924, a third at
Wollongong in 1928. A glass,
shop-front and glazing branch
was opened in Sydney in 1930.
The co. acquired, in 1933, “sub-
stantial interests in the old-estab-
lished co., R. S. Exton and Co.
Pty., Ltd.,” of Queen-street and
The Valley, Brisbane, and Too-
woomba. Exton’s deal in lines
similar to those handled by
Frederic Ash, which also has a
“considerable financial interest
in Vencore Veneers Pty., Ltd.,”
of Newcastle, makers of patented
coreboards, and in Harlequin
Products Co. Pty., manufacturers
of disinfectants, polishes, liquid
soaps, etc. The Ash concern
itself makes sheet-metal products
for the building trade, and spe-
cialises in shop-front, and office
fittings.
The premises owned by the
co. (four in Newcastle alone),
excepting the Sydney glass store,
are freehold. The co. also owns
land for future building purposes
at Taverner’s Hill, Sydney, and
at Corrimal. The lot figure in
the books at £144,271 (up £5092
last year):
Prospectus,
June, 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital £270,000 £270.000 £270,000
Creditors, etc. 74,648 79,466 210;695
Tax provision 66,000 80,000 50,515
Freeholds . . 129,150 139,179 144,271
Plant . . 15,868 22,663 23,488
Investments 82,874 69,190 69,190
Stock . . 186,327 224,942 320,466
Debtors . . 110,557 146,397 179,863
Cash, etc. . . 15,859 83 84
An addition of £95,524 to stocks
(£320,466), £33,466 to debtors
(£179,863), and heavy tax pay-
ments (which reduced the tax
reserve from £BO,OOO to £50,515)
were chiefly responsible for the
growth of £134,039 in the
overdraft (£137,790); sundry
creditors (£72,905) were £2809
lower. Though it is unusual for
this co. to owe the bank money,
finances remain extremely com-
fortable. It is a snug, conserva-
tive business.
Ross and Glendining
In the top flight of Maori-
land’s commercial enterprises
90-year-old Ross and Glendin-
ing, Ltd., the pioneer softgoods
concern with h.q. in Dunedin,
hasn’t done so badly in its latest
term (to July 19), although the
textile trade had to sacrifice a
lot of stuff in cut-price sales
from summer onwards.
Turnover was nearly on a
level with ’5l, but higher
overheads and narrower mar-
ginal mark-ups got away with
some of the cream and left
the co. with £18,760 less
at £156,602 when the numbers
went up ; it was the co.’s second-
best showing on record, with
£61,602 to spare after the 10
p.c. div. Disclosed reserves of
a million and a third and hid-
den reserves of equal amount in
fixed assets written down to a
mere song were all intact, and
the co. had its warehouses well
filled with a shade over two and
a half million worth of goods
which it regarded as first-class
assets now that M.L. was held in
a fairly tight import blockade.
The whole of the rise in stocks
—not far short of a million —
was financed from bank credit,
which was good business, be-
cause there’s no cheaper capital
available in New Zealand to-
day. Profits and divs. should be
safe enough even if the co. had
to stand an extended siege, but
the odds are it will be able to
gather in good gains on the
manufacturing side while work-
ing off surplus stocks behind the
import barrier. To be quick off
the mark it has recruited staff
abroad to expand output from
its woollen mills, and has been
extending factory capacity.
Eldorado Tennant Creek
Despite bypassed quarterly
dividends last year, the price of
this co.’s 2s. scrip held firm
around 11s. 6d. Following
presentation of accounts it
sagged to Bs. 3d., the lowest level
since 1946.
Expectations were for higher
profits following commencement
of cyaniding operations in
August, 1951, The co, planned
to treat low-grade ore from the
upper levels, which was expected
to become payable when mixed
with an accumulation of tailings,
estimated to be worth £280,000
in 1950'. Because of their heavi-
ness these tailings could not be
brought in by the original pump-
ing method, and a conveyor-belt
had to be installed. This began
operating last February, low-
grade ore only being fed to the
plant in the meantime. Since,
operations have been “most
satisfactory.”
So, despite a larger volume of
ore handled and a fall in treat-
ment costs of 245. 3d. per ton
(to 100 s. 6d.), the low-grade
quality of stuff handled reduced
net earnings by £11,187 to
£12,550:
, —*—Div.
Ore Head Gold Per
Trtd., Value, Recov’d, Profit. 2s. Total.
Tons. Dw.t. Oz. £ Share. £
’47 6534 24.8 5646 28,760 1/- 15,503
’4B 6188 20.1 4423 18,904 1/- 15,503
’49 5618 16.1 3091 5,066 -/6 7,752
’5O 5475 22.1 4310 35,462 1/3 19,379
’5l 4885 22.6 3783 23,737 1/3 19,379
’52 10,240 * 4283 12,550
* Not given.
At the 300 ft. level, worked dur-
ing the year, ore quality was
lldwt. per ton. At 400 ft., where
operations have begun this year,
reserves are estimated at 5000
tons of estimated Isdwt. and
18dwt. grade. However, the
board reported early workings to
show a lower grade than
expected.
Handling high-grade ore in the
past, Eldorado has been a con-
sistent and profitable producer
on this erratic field. For the
year ended June 30, 1951, it paid
Is. 3d. per 2s, share p.c.),
and over the last nine years has
paid out Bs. a share in dividends.
Paid capital is £31,006. Last
term £13,363 was spent on plant
and machinery, and £6804 more
held in stores (£26,670) at the
end of the year, when current
assets (£42,118) exceeded current
liabilities by £37,355.
Oil or Gas?
“Kerogen”; The Federal Gov-
ernment, having long known that
petrol cannot, under Australian
conditions, be produced from
coal or any other solid
carbonising material anywhere
in the country at a figure even
approaching the lOd.-per-gallon
estimate of the Blair Athol
report (B. 29/10/’52), had no
alternative but rejection of the
Queensland proposition.
If Victoria could get out the
necessary extra 2 million tons
of raw brown-coal needed for an
economic plant, in the most up-
to-date and efficient manner, it
would be a better locale than
either of the Queensland sites
producing black-coal by open-
cut methods. However, the
S.E.C. knows, as does the Gas
and Fuel Corporation, that the
project would only be attractive
as a “link-in” with a growing
Lurgi pressure - gasification
scheme such as is now under
way based on the inferior brown-
coal of that State, and could only
become operative after many
more years of intensive develop-
ment of the Morwell and
Yallourn fields.
Australia thus shares the global
position with India of being one
of the countries left that have no
possibility of doing anything
with their vast coal resources
except burn them or divert a
portion of selected seams into the
manufactured - gas and steel
industries, with consequent loss
to the community of the potential
oil and chemicals that the coal
industry can and does produce
elsewhere.
If Queensland wants a
synthetic-oil industry it could
not do better than pay attention
to the vigorous development of
its natural-gas potential, which is
readily and easily converted to
synthesis oil and chemicals at
round half the cost of coal. The
Arcadia structure in that State
has a known vast natural-gas
reserve, and although its consti-
tution has large amounts of
carbon-dioxide with the essential
methane, the mixture, after
removal of excess dioxide, is
ideal for synthesis purposes.
Even £lO million spent in this
direction would do much more
for synthesis oil than the £3O
million of the Powell Duffryn
report, and be beyond the
machinations of union-dominated
labor to skyrocket costs.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The Troc was packed for the Artists’
Ball, that kaleidoscope of colorful char-
acters which gets more people into fancy-
dress than any other function during the
year Demons dropped spiders into
people’s hair from the awning as they
entered, Indians and St. Trinians girls
smoked pipes of peace in the middle of
the floor between dances, the Flying
Saucer floor-show seemed insignificant
after the impromptu performances put on
by the dancers, and the party went on
till 3 a.m. Among those at The Bulletin
table were Dulcie Deamer (yes, in the
leopard-skin), Margaret and Frank Trist,
the Alan Bourkes, Roland Robinson and
his wife, Eve Racz and Trevor Trigg,
Helene Rankin and the Lance Stampers.
# # #
At the opening of the Gladys Moncrieff
Appeal rooms during the week one ate
the sandwiches with special reverence be-
cause they had been made by “our Glad”
herself, and she cuts a very suave sand-
wich, you can take it from this Letter.
The Appeal, of which she is the presi-
dent, is for funds to help polio patients
after they have been discharged from
hospital. Long periods of convalescence
are necessary, and for that a large “after-
care” home is essential. The Appeal
rooms in the basement of the Common-
wealth Bank, Martin-place, have been
donated by the bank and furnished (most
attractively) by many kind firms. Lady
Braddon is patron of the Appeal.
☆ ☆ ☆
There must have been about 450 guests
at the Cocktail Barbecue held on Satur-
day night in aid of the Spastic Centre at
the Lindfield home of Mrs. Raymond
Louis, They strolled on the moonlit
lawns, bathed in the sinuous pool (tree-
lined and reflecting fairy lights), danced
in the marquee and watched the fashion-
parade on the tennis-court. Mrs. Louis
wore a halter-neck sundress (or should
we say moondress?) of pink linen with
sandals. Mrs. Mabel Wain Smith lent a
helpful hand with the organisation.
Noticed among the young things present
were Jill Lemone, Ruth Guildford, Mrs.
John Trenerry, Judy Pearce and Annette
Dunlop.
One doesn’t usually go to a musicale
to look at the dresses, but it couldn’t be
avoided at the evening party given at the
Vaucluse home of Mrs. Walter Laing in
aid of Crown-street Women’s Hospital,
so attractive was the dressing generally.
Mrs. Laing, Mrs. C. R. McKerihan and
Mrs. Bell Allen all wore black lace, but
each distinctively individual. Mrs. Roland
Foster was in cream brocade with silver
thread. Mrs. Ashley Buckingham’s black
cocktail-dress was tucked all over with
an unusual diagonal design. Among the
150 people present were Dr. and Madame
Regala, Mr. and Mrs. Miculicic-Rodd,
Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Dovey and Mrs.
C. T, Lorenz.
☆ ☆ ☆
All Sydney went to the Military
Tattoo held for three successive moon-
light nights during the week. Although
it started at eight o’clock, those who
arrived after 7.30 couldn’t get a seat in
any of the stands at the Showground.
Which only goes to show how much
Sydney people appreciate spectacle, for
the fireworks, the brilliant bands (nine on
the ground at once), the pageant of Eng-
lish queens, the police musical ride and
the cycle display made about as exciting
a spectacle as has been seen in these
parts.
# # #
Ever been to a “Sausage Sizzle”?
There’s to be one at Chinaman’s Beach
on Saturday night in aid of the Crippled
Children’s Society and organised by the
Headquarters Younger Set. It’s one of
those new names for a barbecue, and
should be good fun.
# * V
About 150 ex-students of Sancta Sophia
College gathered at the Carl Thomas
restaurant on Thursday night for their
annual dinner-dance in aid of the scholar-
ship fund. Wearing grey tie-silk, the
president of the Sancta Sophia Associa-
tion, Dr. Grace Eastmuir, welcomed the
guests, who included members of the
college council, Mrs. Walter Burfitt, Mrs.
Leon Lyons (accompanied by her sister,
Mrs, Josephine Dormer, from England),
Dr. Dora Bye, Mrs. Edmund Colling-
ridge, Dr. Gwen Kennedy and Mrs, Tom
Bateman.
V V Sl-
One way to help the boys in Korea is
to support the newly-formed Korea
auxiliary of the Royal Australian Regi-
ment. Its aim is to raise enough money
for one parcel to be sent to every Aus-
tralian soldier in Korea per month.
President is Mrs. I. R. Campbell, to
whom donations should be addressed at
Victoria Barracks. Patron is Mrs. F. H.
Berryman.
#
This is one of Sydney’s talented young
sopranos, Shirley Priddle, who plays
opposite operatic baritone Alan Light in
Franz Lehar’s operetta “Gipsy Love,’’
to be presented at Mosman Town Hall
from November 7 to 15 by Mosman
Musical Society. Production is by Len
Getting, who has produced numerous
musical comedies for this well-known
society.
Some very satisfactory balance-sheets
of ball committees were presented during
the week. The Naughty Nineties (in aid
of the Smith Family) was found to have
raised over £4OOO. This is a ball for
which everything is donated (except the
milk, which cost £2 155.). The Lady
Mayoress’s Ball scored a record £736,
which is especially creditable as nothing
is ever sold at the ball and the dancers
are put to no expense except the purchase
of their tickets. The Black and White
Ball raised more than £2OOO for the Blind
Institution, considerably less than last
year, because of the limitation of tickets
to 1000. This was justified, as it made
the ball much more pleasant and com-
fortable.
# # V
Already looking ahead to the dance
season of 1953, committee members plan
a ball for the Royal South Sydney
Hospital on March 21. Mrs. C. M.
Guiney is president of the committee,
with Mrs. P. S. Hunt as secretary. Helpers
are Mrs, T. W. Power, Mrs. A. R. P.
Higgin, Mrs. C. Dransfield, Mrs. C.
Winston, Mrs. G. Knossow, Mrs, G.
Silson, Mrs. J. Markell and the Matron
of the hospital.
# V V
A tiny blue singing bird in an amber
box was one of the most enchanting
treasures shown by Mr. Walter Taylor
to his guests at a tea-party he gave after
the opening of Mr. G. K. Townshend’s
exhibition at the Grosvenor Galleries, on
Oct. 28. Discussing art, literature and
life (but mostly art) were Mr. Lloyd Rees,
Mr. and Mrs. Townshend, Miss J.
Dangerfield, Miss Phyllis Brodziak, Miss
Tildesley, Mr. Ahmed Ali and Mr. Syed
Walliullah (from the Pakistan Commis-
sion) and Mr. C. Harvey Maple.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Victoria League held a small tea-
party in its new club-rooms during the
week in honor of Mrs. K, M. Anderson,
president of the league in Canberra.
Hostess was Mrs. H. H. McNall, who
welcomed Miss R. Grisdale, honorary
secretary of Newcastle branch, and Mrs.
Duncan Nelson, president of Toowoomba
branch. Among those who attended were
Mrs. Alan Foott and Mrs. Harold
Nicholas.
☆ ☆ ☆
A new book for children by Pauline
Clarke called The Great Can presents
itself as a Christmas-gift for six-year-
olds. There is a touch of Lewis Carroll
about it, though it lacks the truly high
fantastic touch. There are a slight moral
(the Great Can is opposed to the Great
Can’t), some sugarcoated information,
some poetic imagery and some fairyland
adventures. The children are called
Henry and Teresa, old-fashioned names
which give the story a quaintly-Victorian
touch. Published by Faber and Faber.
MELECEICNE
Curtain-raiser to the racing carnival
was the gay do at St. Kilda Town Hall
when the R.A.A.F. headquarters mess
entertained almost 900 guests. The
official table was ablaze witlj color. The
shimmering gowns of women guests and
the miniatures and orders worn by the
men vied with the baskets of iris, rhodo-
dendrons and crimson roses on the table.
Chief of the Air Staff Sir Donald Hard-
man and Lady Hardman received the
official guests and were assisted by Air-
Commodore D. Candy and Mrs. Candy.
Lady Hardman chose a stunning gown
of duchess satin in lich prune tonings,
from the fitted bodice of which the
bouffant skirt fell in graceful folds. Mrs.
Candy’s choice was a lace and tulle gown
in ice-blue, with the bodice trimmed with
crystal and pearl beads, the tiered skirt
mounted on matching slipper satin. Sally
Hardman accompanied her parents in a
striking gown of red-and-gold-shot
taffeta with a full skirt.
Among the official guests were Vice-
Admiral Sir John Collins; chief of the
General Staff Lieut.-General S. F. Rowell
and Mrs. Rowell, she wearing a lovely
gown of silver-grey tulle ; the U.S. Army
Air Force Attache, Col. John L. Sullivan,
and Mrs. Sullivan, the latter choosing a
full-skirted off-the-shoulder gown and
stole of white faille. Mrs. J. Middleton,
wife of the U.S. Army Attache (Col.
Middleton), wore a gown of white tulle.
Mrs. Eric Hewitt, wife of Air-Vice-
Marshal Hewitt, chose pale-dusty-pink-
and-gold lame for her graceful gown,
and Mrs. Frank Bladin’s striking gown
of black tulle featured a strapless bodice
heavily embroidered in white bead scrolls.
Chief of the U.K. Liaison Staff, Air-
Vice-Marshal G. Harcourt-Smith, was
accompanied by his wife, whose black
satin gown featured shoulder-straps of
black-and-green-striped satin to match
the large bow set at one side of the full
skirt. Mrs. Ted Harvey, whose husband
is secretary of the mess, wore dove-grey
satins, the folded bodice with its soft
folded lines being attached to a slim skirt.
Mrs. Jim Clarke chose pastel-blue tulle
for the full skirt of her gown and over
it went a draped overskirt of matching
blue Chantilly lace allied to a long-sleeved
bodice of the lace. Mrs. Garnet Carroll
wore an exciting gown of black satin
with a full, draped skirt caught up into
a bustle at the back of the waist, and
Mrs John Davoren chose a smart gown
of silver-grey and rose-pink brocade.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Operation Melbourne Cup” brought
the Fleet into port, and the traditional
reception given by Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins began Cup festivities in the
grand manner. Flags, flowers, bunting
and the ship’s band provided the gay
background to the doings, which
occurred on board H.M.A.S. Australia.
With her husband, Lady Collins re-
ceived guests in a frock of pinky-beige
crepe which had a pleated skirt; her
matching tricorne hat was of velor.
Among Naval guests were the second
Naval member, Commodore R. R. Dowl-
ing, and his wife, who wore a black faille
suit and tiny black feathered hat. Cap-
tain J, C. Morrow, who commands Aus-
tralia, was with Mrs. Morrow, whose
black ensemble was worn with a large
matching picture-hat.
Lady Disney was in black suit and a
small osprey-trimmed hat. Mrs. Gordon
Darling wore a tiny black-sequinned
cocktail-cap with her fitted black coat.
Mrs. Edward Campbell’s taffeta frock
was checked in bottle-green and bur-
gundy. Mrs, Tom Hollway wore a
junior-blue ensemble, Mrs. Garnet
Carroll a quilted frock in black. Mrs.
Sandy Lowe’s frock was of grey corded
faille, her hat of black roses. A lovely
picture-hat of ice-blue crinoline straw
was worn by Mrs. Hugh Syme with a
black frock.
a a a
As usual, Earl’s Court, St. Kilda, was
the setting for the Derby Eve Ball, with
proceeds in aid of the Society For the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children. The
decorative motif was in the racing tradi-
tion, with huge bowls of flowers and a
greenery-twined stairway. The night’s
highlight came at midnight, when “Lady
Godiva,” mounted on a large white horse,
entered the ballroom.
President of the ball committee, Mrs.
Ken Guest, was in white broderie
Anglaise over brown faille. Lady Clarke,
the ticket-secretary, wore a gold chiffon
sash with her full-skirted frock of white
self-patterned organza.
Diana Cross (daughter of the Governor
of Tasmania, Sir Ronald Cross, and Lady
Cross) wore a turquoise-blue tulle gown
with a very full skirt which had loops of
tulle at the hemline and was finished
with a swathed fichu just off-shoulder.
Mrs. Bruce Wenzel’s bouffant short frock
of black tulle had the strapless bodice
heavily encrusted with black sequins.
Angela Cass’s slim-fitting frock was of
white satin. Caroline Bailey’s full-skirted
white tulle gown was strapless and fea-
tured an apron front of black Chantilly
lace. Barbara Potter, whose father is
chairman of the A.J.C., was also in white
tulle. Mrs. lan Miller’s choice was black
velvet. Mrs. Keith Morrison’s dove-grey
faille was patterned in darker grey.
# # #
At the 62nd annual meeting of the
Ministering Children’s League in the
Town Hall reception-room, General
Ramsay, of the Board of Education, was
in the chair, and Sir John Newman
Morris gave a short address. Cheques
were received from various auxiliaries ;
the largest being one for over £BOO from
Geelong,
After the meeting the president, Mrs.
Walter Carnegie, entertained Lady
Brooks and executive members at after-
noon-tea at the Quamby Club. A pale
lilac lightweight-wool jacket-suit was the
choice of Lady Brooks and was worn
with a dusty-pink cloche. She was
accompanied by Anne Spraggett, whose
beige Bedford-cord full-skirted coat was
contrasted with a small scarlet straw hat.
Mrs. Carnegie’s navy blue ensemble was
worn with a white rose-trimmed hat, and
among her guests were Lady Herring,
Lady Angliss and Mrs. E. R. Stewart.
☆ ☆ ☆
Recently returned from a trip overseas
Mrs. lan Miller, pictured here, will be
one of the many hostesses during the
racing carnival. Although Mrs. Miller
has four children she still finds lime for
charitable work. For several years she
was president of the committee organising
the Derby Eve Ball, but this year she
will be there just to enjoy herself. She
is a keen follower of racing, and attends
most meetings with her husband. Tall
and statuesque, Mrs. Miller is an English-
woman married to an Australian, and
has made a home and a niche for her-
self in this city.
The farewell-party given at Menzies’
by the Australian-American Association
for Mr. and Mrs. Harold Rabling, who
are leaving for the U.S.A., was a bright
affair, with the president, Sir John
Latham, and Lady Latham doing the
honors. Lady Latham wore a beige
lightweight wool coat over a silk frock
patterned in beige and brown, and her
small hat was of brown straw. Mrs.
Rabling had a small toque of tiny white
flowers studded with sequins to go with
her black faille jacket-suit. Lady Mc-
Connan’s rust-toned suit had a bottle-
green velvet collar; her small matching
hat was of straw.
Mrs. Claude Deem, also off to the U.S.
for 12 months, topped her black ensemble
with a cape stole of grey Arctic fox.
Mrs. Simon Warrender’s draped cloche of
salmon-pink velvet was worn with a
buttercup-yellow coat; Mrs. Keith Lay-
cock wore a large black velvet picture-
hat with a black suit. Mrs. Wesley Ince’s
junior-blue duster coat had for company
a matching hat. A tiny black velvet
cloche which flew a brown ostrich plume
went with Mrs. Norman Shepherd’s black
suit.


“BILLY”
CA1TOON MIISTOmf
BY
U3W


THE IMPERIAL CONFERENCE
ASQUITH: “David, talk to him in Welsh and pacify him!”
[This is the best-known Australian political cartoon. The original is now in Federal Parliament House. It is
reproduced here exactly as it appeared in THE BULLETIN of March 16, 1916. It was drawn on the occasion of
Hughes’s introduction to the British Cabinet (Asquith’s) in the first half of World War I ]


A LABOR CONFERENCE. [September 28, 1916 ]
PEARCE: “Sing them ‘The Red Flag,’ Billy, and pacify them!”
[Hughes returned from his triumphal tour of Britain to find matters getting out of hand at home. His Labor
party was rent asunder on the conscription issue, and the I.W.W. movement was gaining strength. This cartoon by
David Low was a sequel to the Imperial Conference cartoon, emphasising the anticlimax which so many statesmen
have had to face after the adulation received as a guest or adviser in other lands. “Hughes the War-winner” did
not appeal to many Labor members, especially when sectarianism, Socialism and pacifism began to intrude. In this
drawing, next to Pearce (who is advising Hughes), is Frank Anstey. At the other end, slightly aloof from the conflict,
are W. O. Archibald (later Customs Minister) and King O’Malley (Home Affairs). Next (curly hair) is Navy Minister
Jens August Jensen, and, alongside him, Edward John, Russell, an Assistant Minister. Wielding the chair is Frank Tudor,
and behind him is Treasurer William Higgs. On the nearer side of the table, in line with Russell, is “Jupp” Gardiner.]
AFTER THE VICTORY.
THE WARRIOR: “Tell me, when is my funeral?”
[The first referendum on conscription was held on October 28, 1916. The day before
it was held Hughes was deserted by three members of his Cabinet, Treasurer William
Guy Higgs, Executive-Council Vice-President Albert (“Jupp”) Gardiner and Assistant
Minister Edward John Russell. Frank Gwynne Tudor, Minister for Customs, had
resigned a month before. The referendum was lost —three States for, three against,
and 51.6 p.c. of all formal votes in favor of “No.” Low’s cartoon here records the
aftermath. Rendering first-aid to the warrior who was to live to fight again in the
following year are (left to right) Postmaster-General William Webster, Defence Minister
George Pearce, and W. A. Holman, Premier of N.S.W. In the other camp, behind the
rock, are the deserters, Higgs, “Jupp” Gardiner and Russell.]
[November 2, 1916]


HUGHES’S MISSION
By M. H. ELLIS
THE public history of W. M. Hughes
is legendary before his 30th year,
when he entered the N. S. Wales
Legislative Assembly on August 29,
1894. He sat for Lang among the second
flight of Labor members to push their
way into Parliament, which then was—
as was the whole system of Australian
sovereign responsible government as we
know it today—only 38 years old.
Parkes was still in the House, and
there were ancients present who riled the
newcomer with their reminiscences of
“the year 1853,” when all were patriots
and the grass was very green. George
Reid was Prime Minister, Albert Gould,
later president of the Senate, was Minister
for Justice, Joe Cook was P.M.G., Joe
Carruthers Minister for Lands, and
Sydney Smith, father of a namesake
famous with later generations for his
association with cricket, Minister for
Mines. J. C. Watson and David Watkins
were in the House ; so were “Jupp” Gar-
diner, Chanter, Austin Chapman, T. T.
Ewing, F. E. McLean, Ted Millen, W. H.
Wilks and many more who were after-
wards his colleagues in Federal politics—
some his Ministers.
It was no easy House to sit in, for it
embodied more political talent than all
the Houses of Australia’s seven Parlia-
ments today. And life was no sinecure.
There was no guillotine and nobody
wanted any. In his first short session,
from August to December, 1894, in 111
sittings Hughes voted in 406 divisions and
spoke on 45 subjects, which ranged from
flying-foxes to the Conspiracy Bill.
It says something for his lack of fore-
sight of what was to come that the first
speech he delivered in a Parliament
favored extending sittings to earlier
hours—the House sat at 4 p.m. in those
days, and; Billy contending that the
earlier the hour the better the condition
of the brain, scornfully referred to the
existing sitting-times as a “relic of the
days when Parliament was a refuge for
gentlemen who desired to increase the
lucrativeness of their professions or to
bolster-up their privileges.”
The first motion which he launched in
a Parliament was one on Supply—to wit,
that the item Inspector-General of
Police, £460, be reduced by £60.” He
objected to that functionary (an excel-
lent man, he agreed) being paid two
guineas a sitting for attendance at the
Board of Health, and gave Parliament a
first taste of his aptitude for sarcasm:
If we are threatened with smallpox,
cholera, influenza or any other visitation
from God and foreign countries, he steps
proudly into the breach and gives what
information he possesses, which is doubt-
less of a very valuable character, for the
comparatively trifling and insignificant sum
of £2 2s.
His speeches generally were sparkling,
allusive (for he sometimes compared
opponents to Marcus Curtius), but not
those of a firebrand. The world had to
wait for Federation to see and hear him
in his true role and for the gnarling hand
of time to bring him to perfection as a
platform spectacle.
He was in the van in attacking the
Federal Constitution Bill in the famous
“Yes-No” campaign in which George
Reid, the N. S. Wales leader of the fight
against it, advised his supporters to reject
the bill at the referendum while making it
clear that he himself was bound to sup-
port it.
This did not prevent Hughes from
being early in the field for West Sydney,
which he won hands-down, most of the
voters being his wharflaborers and their
families, who lived in seething profusion
in his area ; it ran along the eastern
shores of Darling Harbor. The electorate
held only 9300 voters, and the
polling-result was: Hughes 6652, J. C.
Beer 2062 and J. V. Hanrahan 307.
He had found his spiritual home,
though at first it promised to be a quiet
one compared to the State House. He
approved the Government programme in
his earliest Federal speech on May 23,
[November 23, 1916.]
NAPOLEON IN EXILE.
[Hughes, with his first conscription referendum lost, led but a portion of his old
Labor party, and his second Labor Ministry lasted only from November 14, 1916,
to February 17, 1917, when he joined with the Liberals to form a National
Government]
[January 25, 1917.]
THE PROPOSED NATIONAL MINISTRY.
Cook
Hughes
Tudor
(together): “Somebody’s going to be pushed out soon and
it’s not me!”
[Following the defeat of the 1916 referendum Hughes carried on with a Ministry
from which King O’Malley and Hugh Mahon were excluded, as well as the anti-
conscriptionists who had previously resigned. But it was difficult, and soon a
move was afoot to form a National War Ministry. The above cartoon depicts
the aspirants for office —Joseph Cook, the Liberal leader, Hughes, and Frank
Tudor, leader of the breakaway Labor members.]
1901—“ I am bound to confess I consider
the Government programme a compre-
hensive and, on the whole, a satisfactory
document. I cannot at present call to
mind a subject, either important or un
important, that has been omitted.
But it was not very long before he
discovered such a subject as Deakin and
his friends, helpers and enemies strove
to frame a formula which would allow
the “three Parliamentary elevens [parties]
to be fitted into two.”
This was compulsory military service,
The matter came up almost as soon
as the House of Representatives opened,
and he spoke on it on July 31, 1901.
At that stage he was not prepared “to
compel any man to serve in the militia
who is desirous of evading service, if
he chooses to pay for the maintenance
of someone to serve in his place.” He
“laid it down as a basic principle that
it is the first duty of every man to defend
his country, and if he is not willing to do
so he should pay someone else for doing
j t »
From then onward his name has been,
without interval, associated with the prin-
ciple He moved for compulsory military
training in 1903. On September 5, 1905,
he seconded a motion by Sir Julian
Salomons in the National Defence League
to provide
F
Universal compulsory training (military
or naval) for the boyhood and manhood
of Australia for purposes of National
Defence, the military training to be on the
lines of the British Royal Naval Reserve,
modified to suit local circumstances. An
adequate and effective system of national
defence.
J. C. Watson and W. A. Holman were
associated with him, along with Lieut-
enant-Colonel J. Macarthur-Onslow and
others, in that move. It soon became
his main constructive crusade. He
addressed the National Service League
in London on April 24, 1907, little know-
ing that that day eight years later would
be the eve of the landing on Gallipoli;
Conscription produces militarism; uni-
.SSfSS!
w jth the nation and places all men on a
level.
Lord Roberts, thanking him for his
address, fired him by remarking that it
was tfi e Labor P a rty that members of
the National Service League looked for
help. That was the year that T. I.
Ewing, one of his old colleagues and a
fellow-member of the league, became
Minister for Defence, and Colonel Bridges
came back from Switzerland with a report
on the Swiss system; the year also that
his efforts were crowned with success m
that Deakin adopted the principle of
compulsory trammg. But it was also the
year that dissension began to rear its
head about the matter inside the Labor
party, as evidenced inter alia by King
O’Malley’s outburst at the 1908 A.L.P.
conference in Brisbane, on giving “gilt-
spurred roosters power to blow a bugle
and snatch farmers’ sons, businessmen’s
s ° ns ’ anc * Labor men s sons, and send
them to the front.
The realisation of his and Watson’s
plans, however, was delayed by the
nature of Federal politics, in which he
had begun to build up his reputation as a
firebrand and a fighter.
Billy had been a member of the short-
five( j Watson Ministry which came to
, . . ,
h s en d in August, 1904, when, according
to Deakin who afterwards apologised
and paid tribute to his character and
capacity—he relinquished office “like the
ill-bred urchin one sees dragged from a
tart-shop, kicking and screaming as he
goes.” And there had followed five years
of heady political fighting*
Deakin, from 1905 tilF*l9oB, had sat
in office with the support of Labor. And
then, in November of that year. Labor,
feeling its muscles bursting, had politely
told the Prime Minister that it intended


COMING TOGETHER.
[Joseph Cook, leading the Liberals, and Hughes eventually came together, and the
National Ministry was formed on February 17, 1917, with Hughes as Prime
Minister and Cook as Minister for the Navy. “Bigjohn” Forrest was Treasurer,
Pearce Defence Minister and W. A. Watt Minister for Works. An election on
May 5, 1917, confirmed the Nationalists in their position.]
to take over. On the unlucky 13th day
of the month it had done so. Billy had
celebrated by jeering at those who thought
his minority Government could not live.
He had demonstrated to his own satis-
faction that Deakin was committed,
morally and materially, to keep Fisher and
himself in office. But after a night-
marish six months, during which Labor
did not dare to implement its programme
or any programme which was not accept-
able to the Deakinites, the silver-tongued
orator from Victoria had emptied them
out and formed a new Deakin Ministry
with the Reidites, now led by Joseph
Cook, in coalition.
It had been a horrible scene when the
new House had met. The sitting was
one of the most memorable and turbulent
in Australian history. The shrieks of hate
from the Labor benches had been
drowned by the booming yells of “Judas!
Judas!” which emanated from Big Bill
Lyne. Billy had made a speech which
had been described as a model of vitu-
peration, and certainly was one of the
most vituperative ever heard in the House.
And then, after 14 hours of uproar and
disorder —shrieks, howls and threats and
fists shaken in faces—the Speaker, Sir
Frederick Holder, had sunk fainting to
the floor murmuring “Dreadful! Dread-
ful ! ” and had presently expired.
And in this spirit the session went on.
The fight over the election of the new
Speaker, Carty Salmon, was Homeric.
Though both sides had been anxious to
pass a compulsory-service bill, no party
had remained in office long enough to do
it, though Deakin succeeded in getting
through his Naval Defence Bill, which
Fisher and Hughes sought to delay till
they could do the job themselves, with
specious pleas that the Government
should first consult the electors because
it had “no mandate to put Australia’s
credit in pawn.”
Also in Deakin’s short reign Kitchener
had been invited to Australia, though
Labor was back in power again on April
29, 1910, just in time to deal with his
report and to introduce the Defence Bill
of 1910 and with it the compulsory-
training scheme which laid the founda-
tion of the A.I.F.
For selling universal training to Labor
Hughes more than anybody was re-
sponsible. His opposition mostly came
from Socialists of the brand who rushed
to become Moscow delegates as soon as
the Russian revolution had given author-
ity to Communism.
I heard some of these bait him at the
deputation of the Brisbane Industrial
Council on December 8, 1915, at the
Gresham Hotel in Brisbane, and his
reply:
You are unionists, and as such you come
here to speak to me about compulsion.
The very foundation of our great movement
is compulsion You speak about con-
scription, but I do not know whether you
know that the Labor party’s platform for
ten years has had as a basic plank military
training.
The war found him at the height of
his powers. He was writing his weekly
articles on “The Case for Labor” in the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph”—the best of
the kind that have ever been written. He
had achieved the peak of his reputation
as a polemical debater in the House. He
was essentially a war-bird and a man
who not only fought but who provoked
opponents to fury. He was heart and
soul in the job of beating Germany, and
he did not care much how. When I
first met him in 1910 he had had a
swarthy look. He had as yet
acquired few wrinkles. There was a
bony solidity about his face out of which
a pair of black eyes looked with a
flickering light. He waved his hands, as>
somebody said, like the “Devil holding
out his claw towards his own.”
But he was wrinkled and looked 20
years older when he stood on the
Exhibition Hall platform in Brisbane
in November, 1918, discussing the in-
famous “Hansard” No. 37, in which
T. J, Ryan had embedded a censored con-
scription pamphlet under privilege, and
said in a slow bass, sibilant tone: “And
if he will say outside the House what
he said inside—within 48 hours—l’ll
have him.”
* * * *
There never was such a menage as his
during the war or such an atmosphere
about a Ministerial office. A Prime
Minister who threw trays of pins at his
messenger, a kindly and faithful
minion who looked like Polyphemus and
had a heart as soft and faithful as a
bulldog’s ; a private secretary who looked
like a rosy schoolboy in the beginning
and like a worn-out nervous-breakdown
at the end, and who worked the clock
round week in and out, sometimes sleep-
ing at his table and only able to maintain
his employment because he had the
courage frequently to ask his exacting
and erratic master “who the blank, blank
do you think you are!”
Australian history, during the years
1915-18, is peopled with generals con-
founded and abashed by sudden and
devastating invective against idleness and
incapacity, with the echoes of the plot-
tings of the Imperial War Cabinet con-
ducted in Welsh accents by two arch-
exponents of the art bent on getting rid
of the calm, unruffled Asquith and his
wait-and-see policy in favor of something
more acceptable in Merioneth and Mel-
bourne. In the story of the times pro-
cessions ride by headed by a little man
in a Digger hat carried by cheering
giants in khaki. There are balconies
from which a small figure gesticulates
with his claw over seas cf cheering faces.
And there is the deep bay of the sullen
anti-conscription crowd and the cold
crossroad in France with the same little
figure waving the same claw, and the
Hall of Mirrors at Versailles, the death-
head grin of Clemenceau, and the look
of triumph on the face of Lloyd George
as an Antipodean visitor pulls the fjosty
Wilson off his throne and baits him into
cold rage.
Once he was described there by a
British statesman in his role of nation-
maker. “Poland—let Paderewski play it
on his piano ; the division of Austria—
who the blithering so-and-so cares about
Austria . . . Joe Cook can help cut that
up.”
He seemed to carry within himself the
material of drama. His presence set fire
to every situation with which he was
concerned. E. G. Theodore remarked;
“Put him in a street with a barking dog
and a policeman and you can start a
war.”
* * * *
The highlight of his war-time adven-
tures and the culmination of his cam-
paigning for compulsory service to the
last man and the last shilling in keeping
with the policy which he and Fisher
evolved, and to which he held to the
last day of his life, was the Warwick Egg
incident on a Queensland railway-station
on November 29, 1917.
He had made his thunderous blasts
against Ryan and Theodore in Brisbane.
He had nearly precipitated civil-war by
raiding the State Government Printing
Office in Brisbane, where he had found
the forces of State police arrayed in
serried ranks to keep his marauders off.
He had charged the Premier of the State
with making a false statement to the pre-
judice of recruiting and with half-a-
dozen other seditious crimes—charges
which with counter - action were
smothered in their own confusion a few
months later.
Then he alighted from his carriage on
Warwick platform that afternoon to
make a speech while the train waited.
And Pat and Bartie Brosnan threw their
eggs. They were big fellows, but poor
shots. One egg hit the fence. Another
seemed as if it was going to hit Billy
on the shoulder. He saw it coming and
bent slightly to avoid it, and it hit his
new hat and his side.
What a coil! Sergeant Kenny came
pounding up —a mountain of a man,
gentle like all of his kind, but fearsome
in his ruggedness, and in plain clothes
so that Billy did not recognise him for
what he was. He thought he was a Bros-
nan ally. Billy took after the Brosnans,
determined to slay at least one of them
in person, though Bartie was already on
the ground, getting his due from a soldier
named Alex Rule. Sergeant Kenny
grabbed him by the arm and said “Listen
to me!” Billy kept shouting: “I com-
mand you as Prime Minister to arrest that
man!” Pat was arrested presently and
fined 10s., but not for throwing the egg.
And the subsequent official protests, de-
fences and general hullabaloo echoed
round the world and passed into legend as
Billy founded the Commonwealth police
so as to be no more at the mercy of
State constabularies.
Yet, on the whole, it was a small
{Continued on page 25)
THET l AMTIS
T/jjp OR
•W.W.
M/ANn i\
Kyan
HUGHES
[December 13, 1917]
THE COMPLEAT WAR-WINNER.
[Published at the height of the 1917 referendum campaign, this was Low’s idea of
the Prime Minister’s reaction to the mention of a variety of subjects.]


HON. JEMS AUGUST HUGHES
M.m.sTer oj Customs
HON. LITTLETON HUGHES
A&SistinT Mjn\<>terr
SENATOR HON.,TED HUGHES.
Assistant Mjntster
HON. PATRICK MSMAHQN HUGHES.
Minister oj Internal Aftadra»
SENATOR HON E.D. HUGHES.
Vioc ■FVciidcnt Executive Council
HON. W. HUGHES.
RasTma&Tci' Cfer\e,ra.\ .
SENATOR HONG.F.HUGHES
iivnister o| Dcj-erice.,
HON. W. A. HUGHES
Minister oj; ViTorkS
HON. BIGJOHN HUGHES
Treasurer
HON. JOSEPH HUGHES
Minister ihe Nav^-.
HON WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES.
II
HUGHESITIS. [August so, 1917]
The effect of close association with a dominating personality.
[In many of Low’s cartoons of the war period Hughes is depicted with a balloon labelled
“D.P.,” denoting “Dominating Personality.” In none of his cartoons does Low make
the point more clear than in this one, which arose from a Press comment that “the
Prime Minister has become not only the centre, but almost the whole circle of
Government.” All given the surname of Hughes, actually the Ministers are (back row):
Jens August Jensen, Littleton Groom, Edward John Russell, Patrick McMahon
Glynn, Edward Davis Millen. and William Webster. (Front row): George
Foster Pearce, William Alexander Watt, John Forrest, Joseph Cook and Hughes
himself. All are excellent caricatures —except that Low has given every one of them
W. M. Hughes’s eyes.]
CÆESAR HUGHES AND THE NUMEROUS BRUTUS.
[A second referendum on the conscription issue was put before the people on December
20, 1917. It was defeated more heavily than before, the “Noes” gaining 53.8 p.c. of the
formal votes. Hughes’s position in the Ministry became precarious again, as Low’s
cartoon shows. With Hughes as Julius Cæsar is Pearce as Mark Antony; others, from
left to right, are W. A. Watt (peering round corner); William (“Iceberg”) Irvine; John
Forrest; Joe Cook, and “Fat,” being Low’s representation of “Big Business.”
Hughes survived.]
[November 15, 1917]


HUGHES'S VISION OF THE PEACE CONFERENCE.
[As the time set for the Peace Conference approached, Hughes left for England, thence
for Versailles. Still playing on the “Dominating Personality” theme, David Low
produced this cartoon a month after the Armistice.]
[December 12, 1918]
THE MELTING-POT.
[In this Peace Treaty cartoon President Wilson and Australian Prime Minister W. M.
Hughes are the chief figures, indicating as they do the variance of opinion over the
proposed Treaty terms. Clemcnccau’s face, Loo, is a study.]
[January 23, 1919]
incident. Queensland, where a committee
had paid £2OO for chairs wrecked in a
Townsville hall during the first conscrip-
tion campaign, was shocked that so much
fuss was made about so little. As F. C.
Urquhart, Commissioner of Police, that
old commander of black troopers and
minstrel of the Never, Never, put it in
his report: “Eggs seem to be accepted
more or less as semi-humorous concomi-
tants of public oratory. The missiles vary
in their nature with fashion—one time
tomatoes have a vogue, at another time
potatoes or small bags of flour, while just
now eggs seem to be in favor... .1 am
informed that on Friday night eggs were
thrown at Mrs. Huxham, the wife of the
Home Secretary,.. .No sensation has been
caused by this incident, nor has a leading
article about it appeared in any paper.”
After the war and the peace Billy
ceased to be the authentic Billy. Even
in the 1919 campaign there seemed to be
an air of unease about him, as if he were
going about dressed in somebody else’s
clothes. There, was great difficulty in
getting his policy speech out of him. He
quarrelled with his committees, but it
was long before anybody really diagnosed
his trouble.
He was, in fact, suffering from home-
sickness, for first and foremost he was
a Labor man. He had looked on his
divergence from Labor policy, his breach
with his oldest friends, merely as a divi-
sion on a specific subject which would
end when the cause for it ended, and
when Labor would settle down to imple-
ment its old planks.
But that was all settled by the £25,000
public gift to him and by the 1921 Labor
conference at a period when he was
making overtures to return to the party;
also by his quarrel with Ryan and Theo-
dore. The Socialists and Communists of
his early days had taken control. The old
hands were already dying or being dis-
placed by the Langs and the Gardens
and the Curtins and Holloways and
Howies. There was no place for him.
He wandered, a political exile for
the rest of his life, sitting in alien
Ministries, carrying out that part of their
policies which fitted into his own concep-
tions, but suddenly becoming moved by
his one-time Labor principles to rise up
and oppose those with whom he camped,
to their great discomfort, as in 1928,
when he wrecked the Bruce Ministry by
his adverse vote, and again during the
war, when he disconcerted the U.A.P. by
remaining in the War Council after the
followers of Mr. Menzies had deter-
mined to leave it. Still again he opposed
the Government in the last days of his
life, when it proposed to sell its shipping
line, one of which he had created in
World War I, and the A.W.A. and C.O.R.
On main issues he was consistent. He
never swerved because of opposition. His
greatness was born of strength of mind,
which triumphed over everything, even
his utter frailty of body and a dyspepsia
which sometimes robbed him of the
power to take more than a morsel of
food for days on end.


THE CIRCUS LEAVES FOR HOME.
[This cartoon, published July 10, 1919, records Hughes’s return from the Peace Conference. It is among Low’s last
cartoons of Hughes, and one of his best.]


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Man of Destiny”
It was lately reported from
England that efforts to set up a
memorial to the late G.B.S. run-
ning into hundreds of thousands
met with so poor a response that
such subscriptions as were
received were returned to the
(Jonors. No doubt it was a bit
tough expecting Englishmen in
general to cough-up in memory
of one who had spent most of
his life attacking them in such
fine style, and who had his own
ideas about memorials anyway,
but it is worth recording that
Sydney has a memorial of sorts
to him.
It’s not exactly a conspicuous
spot on the city landscape. You
have to go down Broadway to
find it, and there might be some-
thing appropriate in that except
that Sydney’s Broadway, apart
from an odd movie-house, has no
connections these days with
things theatrical —it’s a kind of
broad, mad mile roughly be-
tween Central Railway and the
University along which a good
number of second-hand car-
dealers ply their trade, what time
their wares, like frozen, staring
animals, glare through the wire-
fences at the traffic rushing
urgently to and from the city.
By night the animals stare even
harder; the traffic’s glare turns
the tramlines into liquid streaks
and the neons blot-out the stars.
About half-way along Broad-
way you can turn right into
Mountain-street, which vanishes
into a mystery of lonely street-
lights fighting a losing battle with
the pressing shadows of wool-
stores, sheet-metal manufacturers
and what-have-you. Just before
it vanishes there is St. Barnabas
Church,' its palms and spires
dwarfed by the bulk of Grace
Bros., and at the back of the
church, and under a light
enclosed in a wire-guard like a
canary in a cage, a small green-
and - cream sign announces
modestly “Shavian Playhouse.”
Depending on your point of
view, the corner of a church
might be an odd or an appro-
priate place to devote to the
memory of G. 8.5., but, at any
rate, there it is, and has been for
some time —a conscientious little
repertory group given over
entirely, except for one brief
excursion into Moliere, to the
works of the late G.B.S.
Currently they’re doing “Man
of Destiny,” with “How He Lied
to Her Husband” for a curtain-
raiser, and, on the whole, not
doing them too badly at all. In
“How He Lied,” etc., most of
the light Shavian debate gets
across satisfactorily even though
the performance isn’t polished
up to the standard one would like
—the production gives the
impression of having been pulled
out of the old oak-chest and not
dusted off sufficiently before
exhibition.
Likewise, to some extent with
“Man of Destiny,” although the
production here is much fresher
with no mothballs in evidence.
The trouble is the inclination to
depend on Shavian generosity ;
to argue Shavian points and toss
around Shavian wit without
meeting G.B.S. half-way and giv-
ing him the benefit of charac-
terisation —after all, the lines and
the wit he provided with such
prodigality were not meant
solely for the purposes of
brilliant debate.
Moya O’Sullivan, as the Lady,
and Reg Lye, as the ancient inn-
keeper, put the most acting and
conviction into their parts ; Brian
Anderson’s Napoleon doesn't
seem to have the elements of
greatness about him, and David
Lloyd’s Lieutenant seems quite a
lost soul, apparently unable to
match his idea of the role with
the lines accorded to him.
The Kiwis
The Kiwis, the company of
male New Zealanders who
started off at Brisbane in 1946,
ran 857 performances at the
Comedy in Melbourne, and for
a year in Sydney, have returned
to the Comedy and look as if
they are going to stay there for
the rest of their lives or until
the next war.
“Cassino,” their latest opus,
contains all the original in-
gredients. John Hunter, still as
young and fresh and —er —
feminine as ever, performs with
rare skill two parts in Noel
Coward’s “Bitter Sweet,” appears
anon as a ballerina and as a
vision vouchsafed to Franz
Schubert in a beer-garden in
Old Vienna. The composer
(Tony Rex) sings in a pleasing
tenor his immortal Serenade to
Anna (Wally Proctor), and just
when the show threatens to
become unduly highbrow Stan
Wineera waddles on and con-
vulses the house with melancholy
comments on the defects of his
Old Woman.
Cecil Morris juggles cigarettes
and other homely objects with
more amazing skill than ever,
and, although he doesn’t saw a
woman in two, does just as
remarkable things with a canary.
An engaging item is the old
English songs sung well by Tony
Rex, John Hunter, James Lavery,
Bruce Miller and ensemble. Bill
Bain, John Hunter and the Boys,
as Belles of the Beach, more-or-
less conceal their muscles and
other masculine attributes under
bathing-suits of the ’nineties.
Artbursts
George Lawrence
George Lawrence’s report on
his trip to Europe at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries is disap-
pointing: not because one
expects an artist who goes
abroad to come back with a
bagful of the latest styles picked
up like hats in Paris, but because
his landscapes of Devon and
Marseilles are so very much
like his previous landscapes of
Sydney as to suggest that he is
painting a formula.
Trees and figures are thrown in
with deliberate sketchiness, the
skies are grey and opaque, no
light ever plays on the landscape,
the paint is thinly laid-on in a
technique that looks more like
crayon - drawing than oils:
respect for nature and depth of
technique and observation are
sacrificed for the dramatic effect
to be gained by stark composi-
tion and the contrast of bright
blobs of local color against the
prevailing greyness. A few
lighter paintings, as before,
thinly echo Monet. If single
paintings succeed in these
formulas the total effect is
weakened by repetition.
Perhaps some affection for
Australian subjects humanly
natural but inadmissible in
criticism —limits one’s response
to these overseas landscapes.
The blue boats floating against
the grey sky of Brixham might
conceivably make a stronger
impression if the label were
merely changed from “Fishing
Boats, Brixham,” to “Grey Day
on Sydney Harbor.” But then
it is equally likely that George
Lawrence himself responded
more deeply to the Australian
scene than to the barges on the
Thames and rain in Devon.
There was certainly a dark force
in his paintings of ragged Aus-
tralian heathland and the smoky
industrial stretches of Sydney
Harbor not to be found in the
present exhibition.
Some charm of course
remains; notably in another
small grey Brixton landscape,
No. 25. But the need for a wider
range of subject, more depth and
finesse of technique and an
escape from formula is obvious.
❖ ❖ ♦>
Contemporary Society
Far from the slightly delirious
antics and experiments that one
might expect from such a body,
there seems to be a dull lassitude
about the current exhibition of
the Contemporary Society at the
Department of Education Gal-
leries, Sydney—a suggestion of
that kind of weariness that comes
from classroom compulsion. The
walls of the galleries are most
prodigally bedecked with bad
painting, or successful imitations
of bad painting, and unsuccessful
imitations of the styles of other
artists.
Nobody shouts here; nobody
demands to be heard ; and after
“Found the squeak , maestro!”
passing dutifully from painting
to painting one goes away only
with vague memories of Carl
Plate’s quizzical bird and his
pleasantly geometrical “Cocoon,”
and of Ronald Steuart’s thin but
delicate revelations of what is
apparently a very slight sub-
conscious.
Leonard Carter
By opening his exhibition at
an emporium in Bourke-street
with a demonstration, Leonard
Carter, a Repat. graduate of the
National Gallery of three years’
standing, has possibly started
something. If the idea becomes
the rule rather than the excep-
tion, a good many artists will
have to pull up their socks. Mr.
Carter had his subject-matter, an
employee of the emporium,
before him in full view of the
audience, and he made a passable
beginning at painting him. He
painted a subject that was public,
but most contemporary artists
don’t do that. They paint some-
thing that is private to them-
selves their introspections.
There is no way in which they
could demonstrate their ability
except by painting something
public, like a cup and saucer, and
if they had to do that it is
doubtful whether they would
succeed even as well as Mr.
Carter.
❖ ❖ ❖
Inge King
At the Peter Bray Gallery in
Melbourne Inge King is showing
constructions in steel —funny,
twiddly contraptions of wire
with balls hanging from them.
They belong to a fashion that
was all the rage 30 years ago in
Paris, Some of them appear to
get their inspiration from the
automobile and aeroplane
designers who were concerned
with function and weren’t pre-
tending to be artistic. Grahame
King shows abstract paintings.
Talkies
“Miss Julie”
This film at Melbourne Savoy,
the first from Sweden to come
here, is based on the play by
Strindberg. There is the stately
manor-house hung about with
family portraits. The count is
away, and Miss Julie, his
daughter, has just broken off
her engagement with a young
man who is of her own
class but not of her own kind.
The servants have erected a
maypole and are dancing round
it. Traditionally the ceremony
ends in a sexual orgy, and some-
body shouts “The barn —the
barn! ” and everybody rushes off
there.
Miss Julie is inordinately ex-
cited. She follows the mob and
peeps through a chink in a wail;
and her expression changes from
eager curiosity to disgust and
horror. Caught up in the volup-
tuous maelstrom, she is drawn
towards her father’s butler and
her seduction follows.
Then comes the reckoning.
They both reckon up what they
have done in terms of their
several backgrounds. She is an
incorrigible lady, he is an in-
corrigible servant. Although he
was flogged by his masters when
he was a child —a particularly
painful example of humiliation
is given in a flashback —if the
count’s bell rings in the kitchen
he knows that he will put on
his blue coat and buttons and
run to answer,
Julie is in the same pickle.
Although her socially-acceptable
fiance is of no use to her either
as companion or lover, he has
the same social background;
and she would sooner be seen
with him in a ballroom than
with the butler. Julie has in-
herited the feminism of her
mother, who was the count’s
mistress, and sooner than marry
him she burnt his house down.
Sooner than demean herself by
marrying a butler Julie cuts her
throat with a razor.
Anita Bjork as Julie exempli-
fies Strindberg’s idea with a
great deal of subtlety.
❖ ❖ <♦
Two Comedies
It would be hard to say
whether “Target for Scandal”
or “Just This Once” at Sydney
St. James is the better film.
“Target for Scandal” shows how
democratic Edmund Burke was,
when Hollywood can make a
picture round his statement that
a member of Parliament repre-
sents, not his constituents, but
the nation.
Congressman Van Johnson is
wondering whether to vote for
the President’s bill to decentra-
lise shipbuilding and lose his
seat in the next election, or to
vote for the interests of his ship-
building constituents. Patricia
Neal is there to get something
on him that a radio-commen-
tator can use to prevent Johnson
continuing with a libel action ;
we are shown Congress and an
expert lobbyist in action, and a
bribe offered. But the best turn
is Louis Calhern’s series of
caricatures of politicians prepar-
ing faces for television talks to
their constituents.
However much politics is senti-
mentalised in this film, it
manages to put the problem
fairly on Johnson, and offers him
no easy and popular way out;
the same could not be said of
“Just This Once,” which is
devoted to getting the public on
the side of the poor rich boy.
Peter Lawford has returned from
the war a spendthrift and, using
a section of American law that
covers such cases, his executor,
Judge Louis Stone, puts a fierce
young woman lawyer, Janet
Leigh, in charge of his expendi-
ture ; but she, also, falls for Mr.
Lawford’s charm, ditching her
nice young construction-engineer
in the process.
That, of course, is the way of
the world; but it is funny to
hear an audience applauding in
an American playboy what it
damned in Farouk, The comedy
is excellent, and Lawford’s
portrait of the impetuous play-
boy and his mannerisms is
worthy of a more intelligent set-
ting. The scene where Lawford
announces that he will get a job
is really superb theatre.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Return of the Texan”
The Texan who returns herein
(at Sydney Esquire) isn’t a gun-
totin’ fellow, and the landscape
to which he returns isn’t the
wide-open spaces; he is Dale
Robertson, a young widower
with a couple of nippers who
returns from the big cities to the
old farm and to keeping turkeys
and growing watermelons.
The farmhouse looks as
though the white-ants have been
through it; someone else’s cows
demolish the crop of melons;
and Mr. Robertson’s garrulous
old grandpappy (Walter
Brennan) insists on recalling his
days as a Texas ranger and
poaching deer and turkeys on
other people’s property. To
make Mr. Robertson’s lot more
difficult a charming young
neighbor (Joanne Dru) keeps
him in a melancholy state of
trying to decide whether or not
he should remain a widower.
Apart from Brennan’s
occasional blast at a deer, and a
mild bout of fisticuffs apparently
worked into the conclusion from
desperate necessity to liven
things up & little, Mr. Robert-
son’s homecoming is a very
slight, sentimental affair.


Scamper-Vamper
By CLIVE BARRY
AGAINST gutter-grey of
new - bom day I sight
a Continental silhouette
walking with high-
bosomed, girdleless litheness
which startles me.
I regard the silhouette. I dis-
card my cigarette. I unwind legs
from the gear-lever, fossick
glove-boxes for peppermints,
masticate two cigarette-butts
before taste-buds awake.
“Hello, beautiful girl,” I
croak.
The silhouette wrinkles nose at
my grubby windscreen, fills lungs
with hungover air from the
muggy morn, drifts away like
undefiled thoughts at a stag
smoko.
In the rear-vision mirror I see
cuts over my eye, hair that could
be better combed by a vacuum-
cleaner, eyes glaring clear as
squirts of French mustard.
Behind my vehicle brewery
horses ring out ironshod drum-
work on metalled paveway.
Doing my headache no good.
Brewery men dance kegs down
from drays on to hessian
cushions for bass-drum back-
ground. The backlane garage
makes noises like Taronga at
feeding-time.
Frank Sinatra tears the heart
out of a ballad. I kill the dash
radio, extinguish the ash
receptacle, reach for benzedrine
sniff-up. I crave moisture for a
dead-heart thirst; I need a shave
for a sharkskin chin, a patch for
a gashed eye.
SUNLIGHT splashes alley
corners. The silhouette
reappears. I squint and draw a
bead. Elongated lines trip funda-
mental reflexes below crinkled
crusts of sodden consciousness.
I go after elongated lines like a
guided missile.
“Hello, beautiful girl.” My
voice is surprising. Imbued with
cherubic charm.
She bulges a skintight frock
enlivened by a deeply determined
decolletage. She has a cockeyed
mantilla and enough perfume to
eddy through gin fumes.
“You need a shave,” she tells
me.
“I need a drink,” I tell her.
“And sympathy.”
She rests a frail paw on my
chest, wedges breathing-space
between us. I grab holes in the
air, crunch chuckle knuckles on
mudguards, get a double armful
of asphalt and try to stop kerb-
stone clinging to my forehead.
This morning I am harder to
balance than tax returns.
“Fingle fangle,” I blaspheme.
Next retinal impression is a
close-up of her face. Recognis-
ably romantic, faintly Mongol.
A popular blend. Outside eye-
corners centimetres too high.
Pupils lucid as jiggers of vodka ;
hair black as the future.
“I’m looking for the accom-
modation agency,” she says.
“That’s me,” A journeyman
of the bed-and-bathroom trade
fallen on dog days. So successful
that I sleep in the car.
“You may help,” she says.
Her accent says Russian. Or
Polish. Maybe.
“Yairs.” I untwitch jug ears.
“I want a flat.”
“Yairs.” I sigh like a Pitt-
street tram. I’m fresh out of
flats.
I take her in the building up
stumble stairs. I wrestle Yale
locks, and we go in the ante-
room of a dentist who fell in a
cavity and never climbed out.
My bureau. Still antiseptic-
scented. Furnished with scarred
doors and seats and signed
photos of surfboard champs. On
the desk are dehydrated dahlias,
in a beerglass, nodding withered
fields like weary matrons saying
yes. I say good-morning to the
dahlias.
Two characters in the corridor
advance and regard the shabby
bureau disdainfully.
“Oh, really, dear,” lisps one.
Petulantly. “Now I ask you.”
“I should say so,” scolds the
other.
“All right, fellers,” I tell them.
“The lady’s first.”
Three letters on my blotter
Two from racecourse-urgers
One from a herb-and-alcoho
merchant advertising cure for
any sort of woman trouble. Men
drink it straight. I open the
three letters. I write naughty
words on the three letters,
address them back. Dear Sid or
Madman.
“Friends in Sydney?” I ask
the lady.
“No friends,” she admits.
I grin ha-ha.
The phone rings to say am
the accommodation agency?
say yes, but call personally
because you can’t handle cash
over phones. Soon there will be
a queue from my ink-stainec
table to the end of the garish
day.
I TEAR off my sooty sweaty
* collar, throw it in the basket
Jammed in the desk drawer is
bottle. I drag it out like an
after-dinner speech. Reliable
whisky aged at least thirty-two
hours.
“Disgusting,” says Cyril.
“Don’t worry, darling,” says
Rudy,
I toss dahlias in the basket,
whisky in the vase. I put on
clean collar and drink whisky
polluted with headache powder.
The solution is sweet as feminine
laughter deriding foolish wooers.
I put away the bottle and lock
the drawer.
“You don’t want a drink,” I
tell the lady.
The phone rings: a Newport
inhabitant with a flat to let. I
copy particulars. Meticulously.
Flat news is urgent as drugs,
drink and desperate deeds. Flat
news typhoons through scrubby
corridors into a dozen feverish
agencies.
“I want a flat,” the lady
reminds me.
“I have a Newport flat,” I
brag. .“Too expensive for you.”
“Creme fouettee,” she jerks.
“Eh?”
“Baloney.”
Now there are seven customers
in line answering my classified
ad. I recite information gleaned
from phone-calls; ad lib. where
necessary. The audience cheers.
“Racket,” accuses the old Jew.
“Indubitably.”
“Three addresses,” I sell them,
“For twenty-five shillings.”
“Racket,” says the old Jew.
“Post - war readjustment,
indubitably,” I explain. This is
dingolingo for housing shortage.
Worrying helps nothing in this
game. Without worrying I take
their cash, deal one address to
each customer:
At the Cross one bawdy lord
wants a gaudy Maude. I elect
Frizz, the ty piste with an “e,”
for the sacrifice. Frizz spends
idle moments adjusting herself.
“Take it off,” I advise her.
Two effeminate degenerates go
to the witchgibbety wench at
Darlinghurst. One needy couple
chances a single room in the
cheapest slum so they can marry.
The Italo-Yugoslav goes to inter-
view the fatuous, pheno-
barbarous frump at Redfern.
And the old Jew goes nowhere
at all because he’s already had
his three addresses and sniffed at
all of them.
But to Bourke with all that.
That leaves me apd the
silhouette. That silhouette . . .
T THUMB the file for another
' caller. A pink, shy smiling
office-boy goes to a squirrel-cage
existence with Madame Youth-
eternal and Flock Flock her
thirsty apricot poodle. I’m
sorry for Pinky.
Sam appears, urihappy and
tired. “Good day,” says Sam,
“Money?” I demand. “Give
me. time,” says Sam.
“You got time,” I say. Sam
used my deferred pay for a
rattle-brain factory. Now he
tries to satisfy me with goodwill
acquired as a desert slit-trench
companion.
“Be tough,” advises the lady.
Benevolently. “I love to see
these uncouth types eat dirt.”
Sam has the reckless eye and
knotty build of a surf boat sweep.
But I’m safe. I’m his mate. “It’s
my money'” I snap to please the
lady. “I want it.”
Sam gives me a look, straight
and bitter as undiluted rye.
“You’ll get it.”
“Cut it out, Sam,” I say. “I
want it now.” Sam leaves.
“Gome" on,” I say to the lady.
We close the office, get out on
the hot street, fiddle the choke
till the engine revs, roll out over
the bridge on to Pacific.
“Snorter weather,” snorts the
toll-man.
“Snifter day,” I sniff. Those
salutations- declined and fell with
the batwing collar and string tie.
Past Olympic pool. The heat
confines splash-sprinters to the
shady lap-lanes. At Roseville we
swing east through French’s
Forest, follow surf-beaches along
highway, ballroom - smooth,
flanked by ocean-blue as benzine
once flogged to Ismailia wogs.
The old motor runs like top-
weight in the Metropolitan.
“Australian boy,” she smiles.
Wickedly. “You’re
handsome.”
“Lady,” I catch
afire. “You’re right.”
Accrued sadness of
empty hours and
wasted years
evaporates.
A mighty black
Russian cigarette,
gold - tipped, hangs
symbolically in her
likely lips. She
puts hands behind
silky hair, leans
back. Resilient
flesh ripples milkily. I
keep eyes on the road.
Forcibly. She has
the name Valeria en-
graved on belt, hand-
bag, cigarette-case.
Anything that can be
engraved, embroi-
dered, rhinestoned.
“What’s your first-
name?” I inquire.
“Rhymes with
malaria,” she quips.
“Yairs.”
“What’s the secret
of your success, Aus-
tralian boy?”
Success? I have to save up to
weigh myself. .“Success is like
surfing,” X mumble. I gradu-
ated from brisk s.-p. practice
sandwiched between high-school
classes, to an envied appointment
as slygrog cockatoo. “Even
when you are in the right place
at the right moment, the wave can
be too big for your ability, too
dumperish for your courage.”
I hope the analogy is readily
translated into Russian.
THE Newport address is not
a tourist show-piecC. But
modern. Top flat in a new unit
overlooking cool green combers
from New Zealand creaming on
rocky reefs. A sundazed cocoa-
shouldered oaf loafs on cropped
lawn. Polished mulga book-
end on bridge-table baize. I
tell him good day. He rolls
dead - barracuda eyes at us,
flickers eyelids when the lady
comes into focus. He nibbles
paspalum. Laboriously. Husky
as a Bundaberg prawn with a
hot chutney complexion.
“Want to inspect the flat?”
murmurs the husky prawn.
“Accommodation agency,” I
inform him.
“Griced! You two are not
married?”
“The lady wants the flat,” I
stress. “Alone.”
Dead-barracuda eyes switch to
ravenous grey nurse. His rest-
less swim-shorts are patterned
with hundreds - and - thousands,
rococo anchors and soldier-crabs
that grow up into sunburnt life-
savers. He changes paspalum
for buffalo-grass, stands wearily
after a false start. Slop-slap
sandals just manage to be where
he steps. He shakes hands with
me. He takes care to shake
hands with the lady who wants
to live alone. He’s the indus-
trious kind that lives in a garage
and rents his home.
“Toil is the lot of all,” he
intones. “As Homer said.”
“Who’s he?” I probe.
He knocks on the downstair
flat. The door opens. Morning
radio serial comes out to wrap
around my skull like stokers’
grease-swabs. He drawls quietly
at the housewife in the door-
way: “Got the key? We have a
new tenant.”
“Certainly, Mister Mann,”
says the housewife.
UPSTAIRS, I scan the empty
flat like an infantry scout.
It’s neat and worth all he asks.
Valeria peeps about. Assidu-
ously. Lucky she has me to help.
“Look around,” invites Mr.
Mann. “No hurry.”
. “I don’t like you,” Valeria
lapses into continental frankness.
“Flats are scarce,” I warn.
“Griced!” says Mr. Mann.
Softly. “Liking someone js
simply liking yourself in his
company,” He’s stuffed with
aphorisms.
“You ought to be in radio,” I
compliment him.
“I was,” he whispers. Yairs.
I know the type.
Mr. Mann is dead - tired
from the interview. He drags
away to catch up on sunbathing.
His energy would make a public-
servant jealous.
Bamboo furniture, cheap and
fragile, slightly exalts Valeria.
One Utrillo print on the wall.
Crayons in high hot keys depict-
ing horse-carts, snowstorms,
portraits of hands, unabashedly
sexy nudes and cloud studies.
Clouds I search for hidden mean-
ings. The kitchen is tilework,
plastic gadgets. “A place to be
ecstatic,” comments Valeria.
Ecstatic? I shall use that on
the customers.
“Nice place for fun,” I point
out bemusedly.
“Don’t bet on it,” warns
Valeria.
“Twenty-five shillings, please.”
Maybe I ought to forget.
“Going so soon?” Her dis-
appointment delights me.
“Come on,” I say.
We drive to Avalon,, hire
swimsuits, climb on wild waves,
drowse among undulating sand-
hills, spread out like bread and
butter.
“This I like,” declares Valeria.
Valeria needs no doubles-en-
tendres to sparkle her language.
She is designed refined as next
year’s automobile: inspired con-
tours traced from draughtsmen’s
dreams, leaping lines and plenty
of bumper-bar. I practise-pass
and gain at last. Sand sticks in
itchy paste, wind ruffles hair
tangled as toll traffic. Gold tips
from mighty cigarettes smoulder
on sand like ejected high-
velocity shells. Moments to
smell the surf-scoured beach,
feel silence and sound of it.
Watch seagulls and writhing
eucalypts. Time to think back
on lonely months, urgent ques-
tions now answered, uncertain-
ties now soothed.
With towel turbaned above
Mongol eyes Valeria resembles a
spiritual panjandrum for an
Oriental cult. Colorful as
German beer-labels. “Back to
the flat,” she invites.
I hear little but those flames
at the back of my mind.
JUST review dapple-daubed
canvases of bygone affairs,
painter. If one you find not
stippled with despair, high-
lighted with worry, charged with
darkness, fraught with remorse,
chum, you’re rare.
Our rapport develops like
nascent atomic plant.
We pile the back seat with
groceries, eggs, grapefruit-juice,
Vienna-loaf, rockmelon, chablis,
burgundy, ice-cream, coffee,
crackers. In the cute kitchen
she spins omelettes, dissects
cantaloup surrealistically; in-
jects ice-cream. I drink till I
hear burgundy clopping against
loose rocks in my head.
“That’s enough,” she puts
away the bottle. Woman’s influ-
ence is my greatest lack. She
smiles at me over and through it
all as beautiful girls never smiled
at me.
“Men are perfidious,” she
observes. Profoundly.
“Yairs,” I agree. Mouth full
of omelette.
“If one is in love it doesn’t
matter,” she lights mighty black
Russian cigarettes, gold-tipped.
“Yairs.” I follow her reason-
ing same as I latch on to nuclear
physics.
She works her face over and
shows me a fresh repaint. 1
search veneer for cynical crack*
o Continued on page 30)


f/ 'S -<>
rsr s
FASCINATING FACTS No. 5
Some Real-Life Stories about Oil Research ...
.
ill
During the siege of Britain food became dangerously
scarce. Soap is made from fat—fat is food: could
soap be made some other way? Before the war,
Shell Research had discovered a new kind of soap,
a detergent which could be made from paraffin wax.
A wartime factory was built to produce the new
detergent (named Teepol), and as a result many
thousands of tons of fat were saved for food. Since
the war Teepol has proved even better than soap
for many purposes.
By brilliant invention and engineering,
Britain has established so big a lead in
jet aeroplane engines that the man
mainly responsible, Air Commodore Sir
Frank Whittle, was Knighted and given
a present by the British Government of
A £125,000. Shell men helped him by
designing a combustion-unit with pres-
sure-jet atomisers controllable over a
wide flow range. This contribution,
acknowledged by Whittle, greatly
hastened his final success. Below is
one of England’s new jet fighters, the
Supermarine Swift F.Mk.l. Below right
is a research worker studying the com-
bustion in an aeroplane jet-propulsion
burner through a view plate in a Shell
Laboratory.
? y
: I.kj
£
V
,
i
Nematodes are almost invisible “eelworms” which live
on roots. In many areas they get so bad that rich land
becomes almost useless and crops fail year after year.
The above picture shows why. At the right is a healthy
tobacco-plant root grown at Mareeba in N. Queensland
—at the left is the root of a similar plant, same age,
from the same property, but affected by nematodes.
Shell Research discovered a chemical made from petro-
leum which kills nematodes —invented ways of fumigat-
ing soil with it—and tested and proved it season after
season. The new method—Shell D.D. Soil Fumigation
—is now in wide use here and overseas, greatly in-
creasing crop yields. The healthy root above had been
D.D. protected.
Shell Research into engines produces a stream of
fuel, lubricant, and engine improvements which
affect pleasure motoring, light and heavy trans-
port, farm mechanisation, boats and ships, aero-
planes, and industrial power. This is the greatest
of all Shell’s continuous research programmes.
Various Shell Laboratories have hundreds of
engines under constant experiment, from tiny
types to giants like the marine diesel cylinder at
the left. As a result, the power output of engines
and the effectiveness of lubricants get better and
better year after year.
** ... ....
ist
555
m
HISSS
rrrrrrrrrrr rrrrrrrrmrr
rnliilTiifiiHi
nnnmii
U»l
Ml
IIIH
m
b^SSS
f*
-:-
*v
Shell’s research staff numbers more than 4,000. Shell’s
research budget this year is £7J million—a tremendous and
valuable figure. Shell has ten special Research Laboratories.
Some are bigger than the biggest Department Stores you’ve
ever seen, some are like factories, some run extensive acreages
of cultivated land. The sketches at right and left above show
two of them. Everything in them is “all Laboratory,” engaged
in every phase of research from pure theory to practical and
conclusive tests. By ploughing back such huge sums into
research, Shell discovers better ways of finding oil, producing
oil derivatives, and giving every user . . . and the world . . .
greater service.


**msH o/i
AIDING AUSTRALIA' No. 8 of
Series
3000
pictures b
second^
dnm
And
ensure vital 24-hour continuous
processing of the film
One of the most valuable of the many applications of cine
photography in science, industry and defence projects, is the use of this
remarkable high speed camera taking 3000 pictures a second!
Normal speed projection of these pictures slows down the motion
so that it is possible to analyse the most
complex movements of whirring machine parts,
flow of liquids or projectile flight.
All-important processing of exposed cine film,
including colour film, is carried out in
the Kodak Laboratories at Abbotsford, Victoria,
where the highly specialised plant—
much of which must operate continuously—
is kept supplied with constant and
reliable power by two TL4 Mirrlees-Brush
Diesel Alternator Sets with a total output of
350 KVA: a BOEAUST installation-
Study of motion stopped
by high speed photographs,
often as fantastic
as these of a splash of
mercury, provides vital
information otherwise
unobtainable.
One of the two Mirrlees diesels at the Kodak factory
ye#
ESSES)
(NATIONAL
,.
dfgdftj
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence St., Sydney; 368 Collins St., Melbourne Distributors in ail States
Part of the Associated British Oil Engines Group now producing the largest number of diesel engines in the world
Hair pigtails down her back in a
rollover stockwhip plait.
When shall 1 move shoes and
suits in?
NIMBLE proprietor Mann
arrives i n safari - jacket,
zippered velvesheen slacks. Ex-
asperating as beer through
straws. She scowls at him. His
flat fat smokes smell medicated.
He absently strokes absent
moustaches, volunteers sleepy
comments about modernistic
artists to impress the lady. The
cosy-corny touch. Half-baked
mulehered culture to garnish the
meal. Frothy as hot pop.
“Interesting,” I say. “The
lady will take the flat. Good-
bye.”
I give him a glimpse of
masterful personality.
Mr. Mann edges over and
gets to the point. He’s terribly
good at that sort of thing. “Six
months’ rent in advance,” he
says. “And key-money.”
“Key-money?”
“Key-money.”
“Swindler,” I say.
“Mug,” he says. Friendly.
“Talk to the lady,” I direct.
“My interest is only twenty-five
shillings.”
“You talk to her, she likes
you.”
I am flattered. He mentions
ten per cent. I’m convinced.
Ten per cent, means more time
devoted to watching horse-
racing.
“Key-money?” queries the
lady.
“Two-fifty for the key,” I ex-
plain.
“Also six months’ rent,” adds
Mann.
“I don’t carry so much,”
regrets Valeria. She gives him
forty notes for a month’s rent.
He gives her a shark-tooth smile.
“Cheque will do,” he says.
“Sorry,” she says.
“Never heard of so much key-
money?” 1 lie like a gasmeter.
“Can’t afford to wait,” sighs
Mr. Mann. He’s so busy.
I give Mr. Mann my
cheqhe. Mr. Mann takes my
cheque away. A car-engine
vibrates, a shiny black De Soto
flows down the ramp, streaks for
the city. Mr. Mann goes to
cash my cheque.
“Tomorrow 1 repay,” Valeria
promises. “If you come.”
“Depend on me,” I assure her.
WE laze away the dreamy
afternoon. Lock the flat,
get in the car, roll to town in
the golden evening hour. In
the forest Valeria spots a
trowel-headed goanna cuddling
a stringybark. I pull up, get
out, heave a gin-bottle. The
goanna ducks, bolts our way. I
spring in the car. Valeria leads
the goanna a little with the
second bottle, pitches shrewdly
along a low trajectory, crushes
his skull flat as lewd jokes at a
temperance rally.
“Brutal,” I say.
“Yellow,” she says.
“Goannas are harmless,” I
tell her.
Over the dusk-hushed city,
ragged clouds dapple serene sky.
Stars come out like tracer-
bullets. We go in a cramped
restaurant where cubicles have
sixpenny slots for frazzled jazz.
Where you sit, sup, discuss
Picasso. We buy burnt gravy
from a coffee carafe. We buy a
torchy songstress singing loud
and fast and on the beat.
“Romantic,” says Valeria. She
gives me the tender look.
“Let’s build a glorious future,”
I tell her. Last time I thought
of the future I gave up and
went fishing.
We clink our cups and plan
the plans of friends. So this is
where a life of sadness ends.
The glory of departing daylight
blends with shadows that the
lord of darkness sends.
AT Central Valeria uncloaks
luggage, hails a taxi.
“See you tomorrow,” says
Valeria.
“Twenty-five shillings, please.”
Back in my alley I find a news-
paper in a rubbish-bin, sit in
the car, drink from the glove-
box, shudder over headache-
powders, revive the radio. After
a few minutes with the headlines
I need a rest.
Another day wound up.
Up at the university brief-cases
are zipped, at the markets con-
crete-ramps are hosed, noises of
scuddering trams diminish. The
tranquil hour cops devote to
lumbering park plonkies.
Lovers dream at harbor lights
in the tart, tired tang of late
summer. Giggling adolescents
pair off for footpath patrol.
Manly beaches are raked.
Callow Saturday-night sports in-
fest milk-bars, drape juke-boxes.
Masculine steps hammer the
asphalt, and I intercept Frizz,
the typiste, before she enters the
building. “Another address,
please,” she tells me. Business-
like.
“fm not surprised.”
“You knew what you sent me
to?”
“Got to be quick in this town,
lady.”
She moves her bag, queerly.
There’s a new cut over my eye.
She’s throwing out more lefts
than the anti-Communist league.
I watch her flounce out of the
alley. Interesting personality,
after all.
I go back to struggling with
the big print. A back-page
photo highlights the arrest of
Pinky the office-boy. Identified
as the apartment thief who has
been posing as a prospective
tenant. In the arrest photo
Pinky still Jias the shyest little
catty-cornered grin that ever
melted lipstick off a teen-ager.
Pinky is to face seventeen
charges.
Restless, i mooch crowded
streets, gape at gaudy cur-
tains they use for fresh summer
dresses. Down at the Conser-
vatorium the Musica Viva tunes
up. Cinema palaces regurgitate
mesmerised minds from the five-
o’clock peep at half-slammed
heroism, clear-eyed carelessness,
financial lightheartedness.
In a snack counter 1 order
steak, eggs, coffee.
“Bonser evenin’,” chuckles
Happy Joe. Merry as a dope
full of pyrahexyl.
Memories of the day come
beckoning.
“Cancel that steak and eggs,”
I direct. Dreamily.
“Make up y’r mind,” snarls
Happy Joe.
I JOUNCE the vehicle on to
* Bradfield through toll snarls.
“Snorter night.”
“Shut up.”
Across forest fast as a Potts
Point gigolo. Dee Why shim-
mers by. Narrabeen is a flicker
blur of neon-fronted flash fish-
shops, snap-frozen prawn
notices. Last miles of Palm
Beach Highway I drive eagerly.
At Newport the upstairs flat
is dark. The lower flat radio
tells me that Alphonse Apple-
blossom has decided to marry
Jane Meredith after all. I wade
through ooze of musical syrup,
ring, and the door opens for the
announcer’s voice to warn me
about inferior gin.
“Good evening,” I try.
“You takin’ the flat?” asks
the housewife in the doorway.
“Valeria took the flat.”
“You mean Mrs. Mann?”
“Mrs. Mann? That Con-
tinental dark-haired girl?”
“She’s Continental as Bob
Menzies. But more fun to look
at.”
My agile mind grasps the situ-
ation in fourteen three-minute
moves.
“Where do they live?”
“A Queensland couple. Here
on holiday. They promised to
find me a nice tenant when they
left.”
“Considerate.”
“Of course I shall have to
charge key-money.”
Along the coast I let the
vehicle dawdle. No energy to
urge it. I laugh to think of the
crafty couple trying to extract
hundreds from my overdrawn
current account.
But it’s not a hearty laugh.
The vehicle trundles into city
maze, scuttles for the alley, holes
up in the grimy corner. Sara
sits on the kerbstone.
We go upstairs in the bureau.
I grab the bottle.
“The insurance people gave me
a loan,” informs Sam. “I paid
five hundred in your current
account this morning.”
“Yairs,” I sob. I look for a
second glass.


Now in Book Form
7/6
The Letters
°f
Rachel
Henning
Illustrated by Norman
Lindsay with over 40
superb pen-drawings
•
Obtainable at bookshops, or
at “The Bulletin” offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or
Sydney. Or post-free from
The Book Department
“The Bulletin"
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
Support for
from
Small Investors
One of the most interesting aspects of the Electricity Commission’s Power
Loan is the large number of applications for amounts ranging from
£5O to £5OO.
The reason for this is undoubtedly that these men and women are
transferring their savings from the Savings Banks (which pay a maximum
of £2/5/- per cent.) to the more profitable Power Loan with its interest
rate of £4/15/- per cent.
In investing in the Power Loan the public ia following the lead of
Australia’s most astute financiers who demand security of capital com-
bined with a high return on their money.
SAFE
NEGOTIABLE
The Power Loan is a gilt-edged investment.
Principal and interest are GUARANTEED BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES. The
Loan itself is secured upon the £15,000,000 annual
revenues of the Commission’s £39,000,000 organi-
sation, controlling the generation of 96 per cent,
of the electricity used in N.S.W.
You don’t “freeze” your savings by transferring
them to the Power Loan. If you should need money
before the Loan matures, you’ll find no difficulty
in selling your Power Loan debentures through the
Stock Exchange.
THE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION POWER LOAN PAYS
THE HIGHEST RATE OF INTEREST OFFERED FOR AN
AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN THE PAST
20 YEARS.
Make the most of this opportunity before the Loan closes on November 12. Can promptiy at the
nearest branch of the Commonwealth Bank, or at the Commission s .o fflcc^ 15 C as tlerea|hStreeL
Sydney. Alternatively, ask a Stockbroker to act for you. lou can invest as little as £5O
half-yearly at the rate of £4/15/- a year for each £lOO. If you like, you can
have the interest credited directly to your bank account. The whole of the money you invest
will be repaid to you on November Ist, 1962.
Underwritten to the extent of £1,000,000 by J. B. Were & Son .
Here is the reason Savings Bank Deposits
are being transferred to the Power Loan.
POWER LOAN
INVESTMENT.
£5O
£lOO
£6OO
£lOOO
POWER LOAN
EARNINGS.
£23/15/0
£47/10/0
£237/10/0
£475/0/0
SAVINGS BANK
INTEREST.
£ll/5/0
£22/10/0
£ll2/10/0
£175/0/0
POWER LOAN
GAIN.
£l2/10/0
£25/0/0
£125/0/0
£3OO/0/0
The Hat by itself
by NANCY KEESING
I AM not sure what thoughts
the estate-manager considers
proper to his deputy. He
could scarcely disapprove of
my present wish, watching her
bustling progress up the road,
that I did not so particularly
dislike Mrs. Geary. No ques-
tion of actively liking her
arises; but, as the estate-
manager never tires of saying:
“Objectivity is _ the most
important thing in this job,”
It is no use. Confronted with
Mrs. Geary’s fat freckly face
shining under its fuzz of feathery
red hair ; and returning the sly
gaze of her little piggy-blue eyes
—eyes that always win the battle
over their surrounding and
encroaching masses of puffy but
finely - wrinkled flesh; con-
fronted with this I cannot
manage objectivity. The best I
can do is to restrain my irrita-
tion : I constantly hear my voice
sounding a great deal more
cordial when I use it to Mrs.
Geary than when I speak to the
Bacchelis, for Instance, of whom
I equally disapprove, but like
very much.
And she is such a fool, this
Geary woman. She is, at this
minute, standing on the doorstep
in full view of my window. She
has her forefinger in her mouth
and she is about to slather spittle
—she’s doing it now—around
her cunning eyelids. I am to be
favored, it seems, with one of
her tedious tearful entrances,
She knocks. I give her a minute
and complete a drawing of a
fishing-boat on my blotting-pad.
“Come in.”
“Mr. Featherston, I hoped
you’d be alone!”
“Good morning, Mrs. Geary.”
“Good morning. Yes, I
hoped you’d be alone. I’m so
ashamed, such a dreadful
thing . . . and by myself In the
house. Oh, thank goodness the
children were at school. If they
had seen it . . . if Averil with
her attacks . . . and Geary at
work, of course.”
Of course. Naturally I’m
interested, although I do not
believe for a moment that what-
ever has happened to Mrs.
Geary is particularly serious, or
even she would not have wasted
time on the crocodile-tears. But
I am tempted to flippancy—to
say “Been raped?” which would
lead to her reporting me to the
estate-manager, who would sack
me on the spot and then . , .
I say: “What happened?”
“Mr. Featherston, there I was,
entirely alone, and I find this
thing! I’ve never seen the like
of it in all my life, and certainly,
Mr. Featherston, I never
expected to be in such a situa-
tion that I would find one right-
in—my—own — home.”
“What did you find?”
“A bed-bug.”
NOW, this is a damn’
nuisance if not quite in the
way Mrs. Geary means. In
these converted Army huts,
joined block to block by roofed
board-walks, vermin in one so-
called “flat” can spread very
rapidly. And in the Gearys’
block there are some twenty
“living units.” They are built of
wood, and are not easily fumi-
gated—l beg your pardon, dis-
infected, as the estate-manager
phrases it.
“A bed-bug, eh? And you’ve
never seen one before?”
“No indeed, never!”
“And you were quite alone
when you found it?”
“I was. I came straight here.
Oh, I’m that upset,”
“I’m sure you are, but how
did you know what it was?”
That’s a facer, isn’t it, Mrs.
Geary? The sort of thing you
say to the sort of person who
defeats your efforts to remain
impartial. Having said it I feel
better.
“We’ll go down and have a
look.”
“Oh, yes, please do. I’ll really
have to move. I really couldn’t
stay on. Now you can tell me,
Mr. Featherston, is it true that
‘the flat by itself’ is going to
be empty? We’ve been here
three years, we ought to have it,
I reckon. Is it true?”
“I’m afraid I can’t discuss
estate plans with you,”
“I know it’s true. And we
applied for it years ago on
account of Averil being so
delicate. I shall apply again to
remind them. Do come in. I
kept it for you to see,”
“It” is lying on a sheet of
white - paper covered by a
tumbler. “It” has been squashed
almost beyond identification,
“with the heel of a. boot,” she
tells me; but it looks, beyond
doubt, like the cadaver of a
crab.
She squeals genteelly and
breathes down my neck as we
scrutinise Averil’s bedstead, from
the springs of which I bring
forth another bug, impaled on
the point of my pencil. Inspec-
tion reveals further infestation
in another bed in the children’s-
room and traces in roofing-beams
leading to the adjoining flat.
The rest of the Geary establish-
ment appears to be free, so far.
I present her with leaflet
BB2CA and a promise that full-
scale eradication will be carried
out very shortly, and knock at
the door of the next flat, which
happens to belong to the
Bacchelis.
I IKE the Gearys the
*—' Bacchelis are model tenants,
but in a different way. Their flat
is well-kept, although they do
not make such a song-and-dance
of spotless cleanliness, but they
are charming, happy and “easy
to get along with,”
Old Giovanni opens the door:
“Come-a in, come-a in, Mr.
Featherston. Maria she is shop-
ping, you wanta see Maria?
Ah, but you see first our
Giuseppe. Now, isn’t he a boy
now, eh? An Australian boy,
eh?” I laugh with the old man.
Maria, his daughter-in-law, is the
actual tenant of the flat. She
was born in this country, whereas
her husband, Tomasino, came
here with old Giovanni as a small
child. He is naturalised and has
no memory of Italy, but when
they discussed applying for
emergency housing old Giovanni
advised the young couple to sign
in Maria’s name. I know this
because Giovanni told me:
“There’s a lot-a talk about
dirty Dagoes,” he said, smiling
as if it were a great joke, “and
I said ‘you trust-a Maria, she’s a
dinkum lousy Australian.’ ”
At the time Giovanni
explained this to me I felt a bit
guilty because I had somehow,
myself, always imagined that
Italians lived, if not in actual
filth, at least in a certain degree
of haphazard squalor. Now this
memory makes me feel uncom-
fortable, and I explain to
Giovanni that I do wish to see
Maria, but will call again.
“You wait. She won’t be
long. The bubba must be fed
this hour. Oh, yes, Maria does
things very modern here. You
tell me how you like this.”
He produces a flagon in a
straw-holder, and pours two
glasses of purplish-red wine
which tastes slightly astringent
and rather harsh, but for a mid-
morning drink is not unpleasant.
“It’s very good, Giovanni.”
“Friends make it. Don’t you
ask-a me questions—you know?”
“I shan’t sool the Customs on
to you,” I tell him, just as Maria
comes in.
I explain my quest with some
diffidence.
“Oh, yes. I’ll show you. We
found them weeks ago. I oiled
the beds. I doubt if we’ll find
any now.”
We find traces, however.
Maria thinks the trek starts from
the Jenkinsons, a notoriously
dirty family living near the end
of the block,
“But why,” I ask, “didn’t you
report it earlier?”
Maria looks confused. She
says that she had applied for
“that flat by itself,” and did not
wish to prejudice her chance —
“the way people call foreigners
‘dirty’ anyway,” she explains.
Then we all laugh. Old
Giovanni refills my glass. I’ve
said I disapprove of the
Bacchelis. This is because they
are perfect rapscallion images of
those proclivities within myself
which I deplore. Such, for
instance, as the ease with which,
finding their laughter soothing
and congenial, I settle down to
“waste time” and to “show
favor,” The estate-manager, as
it happens, exactly concurs with
my own assessment of my short-
comings.
“Been fishing lately?” I ask
the old man.
He beams dotingly at his
grandson and then replies; “Ah,
no. For me, now, there is not
much pleasure. I have my
window-boxes and an old man
he like-a his hands on earth, eh?
But I would like to take you fish-
ing when I am a young man.
My poppa had this boat with the
big sail, the big red sail. You
feel yourself truly a man in a
boat that has such a sail. It
was called after his father’s saint,
for his father built that boat...”
Relaxed, I sit and listen again
to the story of the San’ Pedro
that brought in so many
beautiful fishes, such hauls of
sardines, such magnificent
lobsters. Giovanni enjoys telling
it. He would not wish to live
anywhere else in the world than
Australia, but his Australia is a
landscape constantly contrasted,
and relished the more because of
the contrast, with a scene of blue
water reflecting terraced gardens
falling into blue water, and of
brown burnt men in crumbling
boats setting forth to fish beneath
red sails.
The tale ends sadly—there is
no other ending when the petrol-
engine of the rich and enterpris-
ing belches its exhaust-smoke
across red sails. Today I have
no wish to wait for the sad part.
Talk of lobster-pots reminds me
of the business to be done this
morning. As I stand by the door
Maria whispers:
“Dadda has green fingers —he
had a farm as well as a fishing-
boat.”
THE estate-manager does not
seem very surprised when I
tell him about the vermin-
infestation.
“I think we’ll have to get the
whole block done,” I report.
“Yes. And, Featherston —I’m
considering moving the Jenkin-
sons in seventeen elsewhere.
(Continued on page 38)
BUSH ECONOMY
The gnome whose stall is on this
mouldering log
Has for exhibit pale green para-
sols,
Muffet tuffets, flossy mossy fab-
rics,
And chains of springy lycopodium
dolls.
He wags his beard at all who
come to buy,
‘‘My profit is to see them multiply.
I hate two kinds: the customer
who thinks
His golden grubs will pay for all
he sees
(He calls me ‘diddler’ when I
iterate
Green wealth accrues by Natural
Increase),
And pilferers who with light
fingers dare
To sneak my pretties into sacks
of air.”
N.Z.
GLORIAL RAWLISSON.


H
*
WHAT'S IN A NAME?
Everything ! ! ! when it’s
Akubra —try one to-day.
■
It’s the finest quality fur
felt hat made in Australia.
■
Unsurpassed for wear and
obtainable in fashionable
shapes and colours,
Akubra Hats represent the
best Hat Value in the
World to-day.
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE HAT
A 1.82
Are you in the
right job?
Should you be working for
a small firm or a big one? In
a job that offers security—or
a challenge? Will outside in-
terests distract you - or im-
prove your work? What skill
will prove valuable in any job?
In November Reader’s Digest
noted American economist
Peter Drucker asks these and
other questions to help you de-
cide on the right job for you
and how to get ahead in it.
This is just one of the thirty
stimulating articles con-
densed from leading magazines
and current books—you’ll find
in your November Reader’s
Digest. Get your copy today.
The whole family will enjoy
it. Unparalleled reading value
at one shilling and sixpence.
All newsagents and bookstalls.
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
SHIPPING- INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Rock of Ages
by W.W. SMITH
PARADISE BAY stretches
smoothly round from
Reservation Hill to the
south tip, which rises in a
dark jag of rock straight from
the sea. The bay is backed by
a brief line of sparsely grassed
sandhills flattening out into the
coastal plain. Further inland a
row of smooth-cheeked foothills
grow larger and rougher until
they tower into a distant rugged
line of hazy-blue mountains,
where visibility ends. The
reservation itself is on the hill
above Paradise Creek, a row of
humpies lined crookedly along
the ridge and scarcely protected
from the sea winds by a few
pine-trees. A dark sandy track
runs down the southern slope
over a rough wooden culvert
which changes position in each
king-tide. A few hundred yards
further on there is an ugly build-
ing of corrugated iron squatting
squarely among the sandhills —
the mission.
The mission was originally
constructed as a dressing-shed,
remaining that way until
Paradise Bay was discovered by
tourists and the fact was brought
home to the local council that
there were two sexes. As a result,
a handsome stone pavilion was
built, and the old dressing-shed
abandoned to an enterprising
clergyman, who requested and
was granted permission to use it.
So it became the mission.
| ATE summer. Already the
J—■ beach is darkening and the
long shadows of sandhills creep-
ing out to sea. The township
down below has almost ceased
its winking and glinting in the
setting sun, and, with dusk, a
mild breeze brushes up the slope,
singing away among the pines.
Some of the men have packed
their fishing-gear and are stroll-
ing back along the beach, while
a few still stand unmoving,
dimly outlined in the dusk,
apparently unaware of the grow-
ing darkness.
The men have to call twice
before Charlie responds. He is
thinking of Elsie.
“It’s Wednesday night,
Charlie,” one of the men re-
minds him.
He rolls his line in quickly.
Of course! It is Wednesday
night. That is good. Elsie will
be happy tonight.
His thoughts wander through
the talk around him.
“He’s still asleep,” they are
saying.
They move on up the hill to-
wards the bustling of the
humpies.
“Elsie!” he calls.
Nanki comes running. There
is a worried look about the boy.
“She’s been sick!” Nanki
tells his father.
Charlie sprints the rest of the
way.
“Elsie,” he says quickly. He
stands at the doorway, his eyes
dazzled by the brightness inside.
She turns toward him and
grins, her white teeth sparkling
in the lamp-light.
“I’m all right now,” she tells
him. “It’s late ; we’ll have to
hurry,”
\/ OU could hear them from
1 the reservation all the way
down the hill, chattering and
laughing in careless voices. The
women walked in front, their
bare feet squeaching in the sand,
followed by the men, who
walked more carefully and
gossiped with more seriousness.
It was a pleasant night with
only a mild hint of autumn in
the air. The sky was clear and
dominated by a brightly-haloed
moon. The sound of a light
surf tumbled over the sandhills,
the only recognisable sound
around them.
Elsie, big and round in a
tight-fitting dress, walked like a
queen. Her skin was black and
smooth, the full curves of her
face, arms and legs gleaming in
the moonlight. But as big as
she was her pride was in pro-
portion, for it was choir-night,
and every choir-night Elsie was
organist, and even when the rain
smashed down on the
corrugated-iron roof of the
mission, thundering out all other
sounds, Elsie could feel the worn
smoothness of the yellowing
ivories of the organ under her
fingers, and she was happy.
The minister was waiting for
them at the steps of the mission.
He said “Goodnight all,” and
they clustered around him, con-
fident in a crowd, the women
chattering all at once, the men
shuffling patiently. The
minister led them into the hall
and they drifted to their usual
places on the wooden stools
that were the only seating
accommodation available,
, The minister said a short
prayer, and Elsie, on her throne
at the organ, ran her fingers over
the keys and began to set the
stops. None of them made a
noticeable difference except Vox
Humana, which was unpredict-
able and sometimes caused a
serious wheezing. But there was
a formality to the thing.
The minister was helping
them decide on the opening
hymn. It was always the same,
Elsie thought. Not if you were
to stand on your head for a
week would they be able to
choose a hymn without ten
minutes’ mumbo-jumbo. But it
was decided—“ Onward Christian
Soldiers! ” Not that Elsie
minded; one was as good as
another. She fingered through
her hymnal and set it on the
stand. The minister was looking
down at her, so she nodded to
him and began to pump with her
feet.
And they were singing. The
first note boomed clearly
between the corrugated-iron
walls, bounced off, and from
then on the echoes rushed from
wall to wall, and the tune of the
hymn got lost. Elsie finished
strongly, her fingers bouncing
down on the keys. It was a
good start and they were
warmed up.
NANKI was standing under a
pine-tree, his dark face
gleaming in the moonlight.
There was a partly-filled sugar-
bag at his feet.
“Lois!” he was calling softly,
“Lois!”
She came out of the shadows
towards him, shyly.
“It’s me, Lois,” he told her.
They stood there, Nanki
shuffling a little and Lois, hands
clasped chastely behind her,
studying her feet.
Nanki picked up the bag.
“We’ll go now,” he said, and
they walked slowly down the
slope to the rocks which formed
a natural giants’ stairway to the
beach.
Down in the creek, frogs
thrummed out a tune and a
mopoke gave voice to his mourn-
ing. There was a stark clear-
ness in the moonlight that
etched out the curjing whiteness
of a row of breakers and
glistened in the wet sand. And
from among the sandhills there
drifted the sound of voices
singing.
“They’ve started,” Nanki said
and Lois nodded.
“I’ve got the fish,” Nanki said
and Lois smiled in the moon-
light.
It had begun in the summer.
The boys, clustered behind a
sandbank in wait for a sand-
piper to scud by in the spiked
grass, heard a scream and
Nanki, ahead of the others,
found Lois floundering in the
creek. He pulled her out, her
hairs clinging in straggles to her
face, her clothes pressed tightly
to her body. And while the
other boys ran this way and that,
he was speaking softly to her,
calming her, and he had
promised to take her fishing.
They reached the beach. It
seemed eerie and deserted.
“I’m glad there’s no one
here,” Nanki stammered.
Lois took his hand in hers.
CHARLIE didn’t feel like
singing. The voices seemed
to be packed tight around him.
It was hot inside and stuffy with
a smell of perspiration. He
noticed that the minister was
watching closely, so began to
mouth the words of the hymn.
“A t the Cross, at the Cross !”
The voices pushed the hymn
out lustily, the heads of the
women bobbing up and down
on each breath. Beside him a
raw bass voice cropped lower in
doubtful harmony with the
melody.
He felt listless and tired and
worried.
He had noticed Elsie lately;
the short sharp spasms of irrita-
tion, the fainting that she tried
to conceal. The women up at
the reservation had made
obvious remarks to him about
Elsie. But they couldn’t be
right. The doctor had been
positive about it. The doctor
had said she was lucky to have
Nanki so easily. Another baby
was impossible, he had said.
And Elsie had been disappointed,
almost as disappointed as he
was. They had settled themselves
to it eventually and now this.
Charlie shook his head
wearily.
He had decided against con-
fiding in the minister, realising
that the minister’s knowledge of
women would be mainly
theoretical. And the women up
at the reservation had laughed
when he had approached them
about it. But, of course, they
were wrong. It couldn’t possibly
be a baby.
The singing stopped suddenly
and caught him by surprise. But
they were off again almost
immediately.
“Rock of ages, cleft for me ”
If the problem was something
solid he would know what to
do.
“Let me hide myself in thee”
But there was so much he
didn’t understand. And you
can’t see in dark places! You
can’t fight until you know what
you’re fighting!
He felt the minister watching
him again and he looked away
quickly towards Elsie.
“Let the water and the blood.”
Elsie could feel the drops of
perspiration trickling down her
face and arms and legs.
{Continued on page 38)


ilòhwetyohthkmòwetmhri
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cl high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary DupU
color will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BulU entirety t* Austral la by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Auat.)
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established ISIS.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
O. C. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
before dinner
jmt
n
far
*7>
t/iiMn'm
?6
v 'e»v' co«!
Famous
since
1816
Australian Historical Sketches
We the Seaple
By M. H. ELLIS
POPULAR legend pictures
earliest convict Australia
as a place of legirons and
lash, but there was more
cruelty in 1832 than in 1792.
Generally speaking, embryo
Botany Bay was about as free
and easy a chokey as it would
have been possible to find.
The voyage from England
might be a foretaste of the
Inferno. The rations might be
on starvation scale, but the
convict who was careful and who
was not involved in any new
crime existed in a manner to
cause him little inconvenience.
He was not ironed unless he
needed to be punished. He did
not live in a jail. The first useful
building of that type was not
put up until the colony was
nearly a decade old, and then
public opinion was so outraged
by its appearance on the scene
that some philanthropist burned
it down, just as another one
burned down the church when
it was found that the colonists
were supposed to incommode
themselves by attending it.
Most convicts lived much as
those of Macquarie’s day lived.
They were landed. They were
allotted as servants to officers, or
went to some Government gang
and were sent off to find a lodg-
ing or put up a hut. They were
expected to come to work when
the bell rang. Altogether, most
of them found themselves better
off in captivity than they had
been in freedom.
Their food was provided by
Government, and they could add
to it from gardens or by hunting
or fishing. Their hours were
considerably shorter than those
of even child-laborers in Eng-
land. The working-day varied
in length according to the season
and the fashion of the moment
as dictated by the plenitude or
otherwise of laborers and
mechanics. At some periods,
even when the settlements were
full fed, work stopped round
midday until four o’clock in the
afternoon, then continued till
sundown. Saturdays were partly
free so that workers could attend
to their gardens and their wash-
ing. And the Sabbath Day was
kept as holy as possible, which
wasn’t saying very much. Out-
side ordinary work hours
prisoners could earn money
working privately.
Until after the Second Fleet
had come in and the first batches
of Irish were brought from the
Irish jails in the latter half of
1791 the population was typically
English and had all the natural
characteristics of the English.
The roll of their names began
with Abel, Robert, of London,
and ended with George Young-
son from the Royal City of
Lancaster, where you can still
see John O’Gaunt’s horseshoe set
into the pavement. There were
no outlandish names in the list
beginning with “X” and “Z.”'
There were only 13 Macs.
Mr. O’Craft was the only
gentleman in the colony wearing
a broad-arrow and the most
famous of Milesian patronymic
affixes to his name. The lone
Kelly among them hailed from
Pontefract in Yorkshire, the
much - mispronounced borough
which later gave Tasmania its
notorious Black Michael Howe.
The towns listed after all the
names were typically English—
each famous city or borough
sent samples: London, Guild-
ford, New Sarum, Lincoln, Win-
chester, Maidstone, Exeter, Laun-
ceston, Dorchester. There was,
as there always must be in a
typical English community, a
flavoring of Israelite —names like
Jacob Messiah and Joseph Levy,
The fact that they were captive
did not abash them enough to
prevent them having a public
opinion. They had their own
code. They expressed themselves
freely at the Governor’s gate
when he refused or failed to find
means to send home those whose
sentences expired. They looked
on English law as their own,
something to be respected even
when it exiled or hanged them.
They took their lot with sub-
mission, and when they entered
upon crime it was invariably of
a type provoked by hunger or
cold They held grimly to their
right to eat, to be warm and to
push their faces into a mug of
fiery brew after the manner of
all true-born Britons; and believ-
ing that these were their inalien-
able privileges nothing would
prevent them from exerting
them.
They were “the people”—even
the Government conceded them
that title —and they would insist
on acting as such.
The Governor soon found
“with much regret, though
doubtless without surprise, that
in the community committed to
his care the strictest enforcement
of law was peculiarly necessary.”
There were, in fact, in it
“many individuals who neither
lenity could touch, nor rigor
terrify ; who, with all sense of
social duty, appeared to have
lost all value for life itself, and
with the same wantonness
exposed themselves to the darts
of savages and to the severe
punishments which, however
reluctantly, every society must
inflict when milder methods have
been tried without success.”
+ +
“Milder methods,” of course,
was the other name for two or
three dozen of the best with a
cat-o’-nine-tails administered by
a hearty and enthusiastic Marine.
But, despite Phillip’s grimness, no
Tudor bishop with the stake
before his eyes was ever more
staunch to his principles than
the food thieves of Botany Bay,
and no community scene ever
presented better opportunities
for men and women to martyr
themselves. Free to move about
at will within the limits of the
settlement, going to their own
huts at night, finding their own
amusements, temptation was
always in sight, especially as store
walls could be pulled down with
bare hands, and dwellings were
flimsier than Japanese houses.
When they had been camped
on Sydney Cove less than a
month Phillip decided that the
time had arrived for martyrdom
to begin. Half-a-dozen naughty
fellows led by young Mr.
Barrett, an ingenious lad of
seventeen, were discovered pilfer-
ing a Government store “the very
day that they had received a
week’s provision”—which was
issued on the same scale as that
of the Governor and the soldiery,
spirituous liquors excepted.
Not a moment was lost. A
drum-head court was at once
assembled, the evidence was
brought forward, and toward
sundown a whispering crowd was
mustered round a large tree
which used to stand in George-
street North to the east of
the present police-station there.
Thither came Mr. Barrett, pray-
ing hard. Thither came a func-
tionary with a rope and another
with a ladder. Thither also came
the Reverend Mr. Richard
Johnson. A Marine removed his
belt and buckled it round Master
Barrett’s arms above the elbows.
They put the rope round his
neck and himself a few feet up
the ladder, and in a trice he was
swinging in the twilight from a
limb for the edification of his
companions in crime, who were
all expecting at that stage to take
his place in turn in a very few
minutes.
The first survivor, however,
was offered his freedom if he
would act permanently as hang-
man, a suggestion which he
accepted with alacrity. His
remaining four reprieved com-
panions, having heard an apt
homily and a stern warning, were
led off, loud in prayer and praise,
to be marooned on bread and
water on an island in the harbor,
one which earned its name from
their experiences—Pinchgut, to
wit.
+ +
Time and again this pioneer-
ing scene was to be re-enacted
in the “earlies” of Botany Bay;
but without much effect, as star-
vation made itself felt. But it
continued a fact that there was
little crime for crime’s sake, even
though a large section of the
First Fleeters came from the
underworld of London, and were
men and women who spoke
thieves’ slang so exclusively that
often interpreters had to be pro-
vided for them when they
appeared in courts. It took five
years of history to produce the
colony’s first murder.
The first Irish came in the
Third Fleet. They were some-
what different from the exiled
non-criminal Irish or convicted
agricultural Irish of later days,
but they were even more different
from the original English, who
were all frightened of them.
They were not vigorous
fellows. They died at first
by the dozen, but they were
still enterprising. No passenger-
complement of an Irish convict-
ship ever felt that it had done its
duty unless it had formed a
usually impracticable plan to
seize the ship. And in
consequence few ships arrived
in Port Jackson without a hulla-
balloo produced by the yells of
indignation of ship’s officers with
an aversion to being murdered,
mingled with the angry protests
of the convicts for having been
flogged or maltreated for such
simple crimes as mutiny and the
like.
When the population spread
out, and sentences began to expire
and there were free men who felt
themselves justified in taking to
the bush and there becoming
banditti, it was strangp to study
the different techniques of the
sober English, innately respectful
of English law, and the Irish.
The former always seemed to go
about their crime the hard way ;
the Irish revelled in upsetting
official routine and in simple
methods.
The English would black their
faces to make themselves look
like natives when they robbed at
night. They would go to infinite
trouble to slide down chimneys,
and softly carry off a few bags
of flour and the clothing from a
well-guarded hut in which half-
a-dozen watchful toilers were
sleeping beside the communal-
loaded blunderbuss. They would
go to some length to avoid hurt-
ing anybody as a general rule, if
they could manage any other
way.
+ +
The Irish, however, were direct
in their methods. They just took
a large shillelagh, hit somebody
vigorously on the head with it
and carried his possessions with
them to the wide-open spaces.
Nothing better illustrates the
difference of English and early
Irish convict method than the
technique of escaping.
The conventional idea of the
English was to steal a boat with
a view to working their way with
difficulty to civilisation.
One such party, with a pregnant
girl, Mary Bryant, among them,
but no seamen, actually stole the
Governor’s pinnace and got
clean away. The bulk of them,
after months of privation
and a voyage which made Bligh
look like an amateur, arrived in
Batavia posing as shipwrecked
mariners. Some were sent in
custody to England, and escaped
the fate reserved for escapees
only because of the delight of the
English in adventurous spirits.
Messrs. Dennis O’Flaherty,
Tim Minogue, Biddy Doolan and
compatriots would never even
have thought of going about the
matter in so unromantic —and
arduous—a style.
Seated round their lonely fire
with not more than a dozen
friends for company, starving on
a haunch of kangaroo, some
fresh-stolen maize-cobs, a quart
of the crather filched from the
last innocent whom they hap-
pened to encounter, and
wreathed in the smoke of some-
body else’s lost tobacco, they
would meditate on their hard lot
and yearn for shamrocks and
potatoes-and-point far more
loudly than the Cockneys, a mile
or so away, for Alsatia.
“Begob, Dinnis,” says Tim,
“an’ where’s the counthry
beyant this wan?”
“Sure,” says Dennis, “it do
be the land o’ Chinee.”
“Twou’d be a bit of way,” says
Tim meditatively.
“Och, Dublin to Dundalk,”
says Dennis, “beyant a grand
river, like the Shannon.”
And he has only to add that
the Chinese are a fine, brown,
flahooley people, kind to true
Irishmen, and earnest cultivators
of the potato, and everybody
present becomes satisfied that
China is only three walks and a
short paddle away to the north
and they decide to set out in
the morning,
A few days afterwards a posse
of Marines, at the peril of their
own lives, carry the famished
remains of the party out of the
Hawkesbury Ranges. Some of
them are not there, because they
have been speared by the blacks.
Some have starved or thirsted
to death. All the remainder have
an air of injury about them as
if they have been cheated by
their rescuers. They are put
into hospital to mend, but with-
out convincing their compatriots
that China is not 100 miles away
beyond a river waiting to
welcome any son of Erin who is
willing to walk thither.
The Government became a
little tired before early history
had run its course of dragging
back would-be passportless
travellers who had set out trust-
ingly for Peking.
The first flight of Irish con-
victry believed as firmly in the
Chinese legend as it did in
leprechauns. It was an attractive
idea and therefore must be right.
Twenty years after Phillip’s
day little bands were still setting
off to Asia, sometimes eating
even their dogs before they were
dragged back to the discourage-
ments of the triangle and the
lash.


THIS IS THE BANK YOU OWN
o* 1
%
y
ts/
n*
Z
*
&
o
vx
quality of service rendered by
any bank depends mainly on
the staff—the men and women who conduct
the business of the bank’s clients. Behind
the scenes in the Commonwealth Bank the
careful training of the staff is going on
continuously. You may be certain, therefore,
that in this bank officers attending to your
needs know banking from A to Z and can
handle your business speedily and efficiently.
In addition the Commonwealth Bank
employs highly trained specialists whose
knowledge covers the many aspects of
finance and economics. These officers are
all working in your interests.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
C.G.8.28-82
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office; Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Sporting Notions
The Victoria Derby has been
won five times in the last eight
years by Sydney-owned and
-trained three - year - olds, the
latest. Advocate, being raced by
Mrs. Denis Allen, the first
woman-owner to bag the Flem-
ington classic since Great Britain
scored in 1942 for Mrs. D.
Belson. Advocate, fourth in the
betting (8 to 1), cleared out to
beat two others from Sydney,
Top Level and Gallant Archer.
Advocate’s owner is a daughter
of the late Sir Colin Stephen,
former A.J.C. chairman. Her
sister, Mrs. T, L. Rutledge, races
Salamanca, recently winner of
the Queen’s Cup at Randwick.
Advocate cost 1700 guineas
as a yearling, and early in his
career gave indications he would
stay. He was bred by former
top-class rider Ted McMenamin
at his Glencroft Stud, Wodonga
(Vic.). A half-brother to the
Derby winner by the new im-
ported sire Stockade (imp.) was
sold at the last Randwick April
yearling sales for 1600 guineas
to Melbourne trainer P. B.
Quinlan. Advocate is by Con-
fessor (imp.) from Symphony by
Eastern Monarch (imp.) from
Tsuma (sister to Newmarket
winner Count Ito) by Spearhead
(imp.) from Sonora (a half-sister
to former Melbourne stayer
Royal Charter) by Land of Song
(imp.). Advocate is the best of
the Confessor progeny so far.
Deep River, hot favorite for
the Victoria Derby, must have
trained-off ; his performance was
much below his display in the
Randwick classic. With the race
run to suit him —the time, 2.30,
was a record —Deep River simply
plodded along to seventh place
at the finish. Still, if he can win
races in the U.S. next year before
going to the stud there, as his
American owners intend, all will
be well. Australian sires have
done well at the stud in that
country, and Deep River has the
right bloodlines to carry on the
good work.
Melbourne trainers started the
Flemington spring carnival on
the wrong leg, as visiting men-
tors won four of the six
events on the opening day.
Adelaide trainer I. Reid scored
with Phaeton (Cantala Stakes),
and New Zealander Clarrie Mc-
Carthy with Dalray (Mackinnon
Stakes). Sydney trainers Fil
Allotta (Derby with Advocate)
and Bill Fellows (Maribyrnong
with Apple Jack) lifted the
richest races of the afternoon’s
programme.
Phaeton was a 10-to-l shot
for the Cantala. He’s a Helios
six-year-old horse with a good
winning record in Adelaide.
Sydney-trained Oversight was all
the rage for the event, hut he
was 10th to finish, a poor effort.
Apple Jack cost 1400 guineas as
a yearling last autumn. He’s a
Newtown Wonder (imp.) colt
from Silver Words by Talking.
Family lines include Lady
Medallist, a winner of the Caul-
field Cup.
Brisbane horses are always
hard to beat on the home
ground, and once again Sydney
visitors bit the dust when Caphua
and Iroquois were unplaced in
the £3OOO Doomben Stakes,
about seven furlongs. In fact,
they were the last two to cross
the finishing-line, which surprised
Sydney racegoers in view of the
excellent form shown before
travelling north. The winner,
Brisbane galloper Malt Maid
(she beat Stamp and former
Sydney sprinter Free Rule, the
latter a hot favorite at 6 to 4),
has now won the race in both
years it has been run, it having
been first staged only last year.
Jockey Jim Stanfield, who piloted
the winner, had a great day, get-
ting home three other winners.
Longest-priced winner at Rose-
hill was Sea Wolf, at 9 to 1, in
the Rosehill Handicap. Most of
the eight winners had strong
“We usually just dress informally .”
support, four starting favorite.
Sea Wolf is one of Maurice
McCarten’s team. Maurice him-
self is in Melbourne with other
horses, but the stable lost heavily
over the defeat of St. Brigid in
the opening Rosehill event, and
there wasn’t much money for
Sea Wolf, who came from the
rear of the field to win easily.
A plunge on the Rosehill
Handicap runner - up, former
Brisbane galloper Havago, almost
came off. He was backed from
33 to 1 to 12’s, and was in front
close to the post. Havago’s last
win was in a Novice at Doom-
ben in May, 1951, so he’s due
for a turn.
Winged Glory, winner of the
Rosehill Maiden Nursery for
fillies, was backed from 20’s to
B’s following smart trackwork.
She had not previously faced a
barrier, apart from trials, but
she went to the post like one
well educated. She is raced by
A. R. Brien and trained at Rose-
hill by R. C. Stanton, who won
the A.J.C. Hurdle in 1939 with
the famous jumper Cheery Jack,
later winner of the Grand
National Hurdle at Flemington.
Winged Glory is a half-sister to
Flying Duke, and is a speedy
type; Flying Duke won the
A.J.C. Sires Produce Stakes. She
is by Delville Wood (imp.) from
Virgin Wing by Magpie (imp.)
from Cymbala (imp.) by Robert
le Diable from Seraphine by
Cyllene.
As anticipated, it didn’t take
Sydney two - year - old Sir
Malcolm (Newtown Wonder
(imp.)—Merinda) long to win a
race. Having his third race-start
he was much too solid for
opponents in the Rosehill
Maiden Nursery for colts and
geldings. He was 3-to-l on,
though a few laid 2’s on ; he
had finished fourth in the
Bjeeders’ Plate and second in the
Canonbury Stakes. Bred at
Fairways Stud, Muswellbrook,
and a second foal, he belongs to
the same family as noted per-
formers Desert Gold and Gold
Rod.
• • • •
Sir Malcolm’s dam, Merinda,
didn’t race. She is by Manitoba
(imp.) from Decree by Law
Maker (imp.) from Maiden Hair
by Manfred and going back to
an early stayer of note, Trenton.
Auraria, who was by Trenton
and who won the Melbourne
Cup in 1895, figures in the blood-
lines. She was an all-rounder,
as she also won the V.R.C. Oaks
and the Adelaide Derby. Coming
from such a well-known family,
Sir Malcolm might turn out a
top-ranking performer.
The C. B. Fisher Plate, weight-
for-age highlight on the final day
of the V.R.C.’s spring carnival,
has over the years attracted the
best staying talent in Australia.
On occasion it has been won by
the Melbourne Cup winner or
by a placegetter in the two-miler
a few days earlier, while
unplaced Cup runners have also
landed the mile - and - a - half.
Sydney owners have won their
share of C. B. Fisher Plates, a
race named after a noted turf-
man of earlier years. High Caste
won it three times, 1939-40-41.
Right back in the years Alawa
also had three successes, 1908-09-
10. Alawa ran into a subse-
quently top-ranking galloper,
Prince Foote, one of late
“Baron” Brown’s favorites, in
the 1909 Melbourne Cup, finish-
ing second with 9.3. Prince
Foote had only 7.8 in that Cup.
Edgar Britt has had an average
of 100 winners per year since he
decided in 1946 to reside per-
manently in England. He piloted
his 700th English winner at
Alexandra Park (near London)
last week. Britt has won races in
various countries. In Sydney he
was apprenticed to Randwick
mentor Mick Polsen, with whom
he was associated for many
years. Among races Britt won
in Australia were the 1932
Moonee Valley Cup on Yar-
ramba, when he rode at 6.7, and
the 1934 Sydney Cup on Broad
Arrow. He went from India in
1945 to ride for the Maharaja of
Baroda. Early next year Britt,
who’s 39, will be living at
Harrowgate, Yorkshire, and will
be associated with the stable
presided over by Captain E.
Elsey.
* * * *
American golfer Lloyd
Mangrum’s 68, 69 in Adelaide
“Advertiser’s” £lOOO was as
polished as his manners and
appearance. Oliver was second
with 141 —his second-round 66
is a course record —and Jimmy
Demaret third. Turnesa, U.S.A.
pro. champ., was nudged out of
fourth-place by Victoria’s Ossie
Pickworth, Kel Nagle (N.S.W.)
having tied for third.
In the opening rounds of the
international match on Mel-
bourne’s Huntingdale Mangrum
and Demaret were two up on
Thomson and Nagle, and Oliver
and Turnesa 3 and 2 on Pick-
worth and Von Nida. Then
Nagle beat Oliver and Thomson
beat Turnesa in the singles, but
Mangrum downed Von Nida
and Demaret beat Pickworth and
the Australians were down four
to two. The match will finish at
The Lakes (Sydney) this week.
* * * *
N.S.W. won by 253 runs at
Brisbane after looking certain of
an outright win. Queensland’s
Mackay (157 n. 0.) and McCool
(88 ; he had also made a not-
out hundred in his first knock)
staved off the outright. N.S.W.,
499 (Miller 108, De Courcy 98,
Morris 95) and 1-9 ; Queensland,
246 and 383.
In Perth the affair between
W.A. and the South Africans
dragged out to a draw. Though
keen and competent, the visitors
didn’t bring to light anything
special. S. Africa, 9-427 (Mc-
Glew 182, Mansell 57 ; Puckett,
5-119) and 3-126; W.A., 306
(Langdon 120 n. 0., Meuleman
103 ; Tayfield 5-98).
The visitors then moved to
Adelaide, where the home team
got off to a tidy start of 354.
Most impressive of the S. Aus-
tralians was young batsman
Dean Trowse, who top-scored
with 74.
From W. A. (Bert) Oldfield:
The South African visitors
recall pleasant memories of the
Tests in which I have played for
Australia against the Afri-
kanders. The present team is
without any personality well-
known to Australia, but includes
many young players capable of
being moulded into a magnificent
fielding team, which could be the
means of winning Test matches.
McGlew (vice-captain) and
McLean are outstanding cover-
point fieldsmen ; Watkins excels
at mid-off ; Mansell’s a good slip.
When the 1930 Australian
team went to England few held
out any hope that they would
be successful in the Tests, as
only four players had previous
experience of English conditions,
but, due to the excellent leader-
ship of Woodfull, they blended
into a winning combination and
made history with the develop-
ment of Don Bradman and Stan
McCabe, who became two of
Australia’s leading batsmen for
years to follow.
There is no bowler of real
pace in the South African side,
and the attack will be opened by
Watkins and Melle, both right-
hand medium-pace seam-
swingers. The two slow-bowlers
are Mansell, who wears glasses
and is a leg-spinner, and Tay-
field, who concentrates on slow
off-breaks.
The composition of the South
African attack seems to suggest
that the selectors are attempting
to revive a similar type of bowl-
ing to that turned on here in
1910, when Schwarz, Vogler and
Faulkner were outstanding as
leg-break and bosey bowlers on
our hard wickets. Quite
obviously they are relying on
spin rather than speed.
* * * *
Stoush galore, solid hard fight-
ing, gave the Leichhardt crowd
its money’s worth and a bit over
when Ted McCoy (9.9) encoun-
tered Arthur Kelly (9.8) and
Frank Donnelly (10.10?) had at
Zac Rakicic (10.6|) in 12-
rounders. McCoy, a young-
comer from Newcastle, looked to
win so well on points that present
writer, if he hadn’t been stricken
dumb by the opposite decision,
might have joined in the derisive
hoots. Donnelly had far too
much experience for New Aus-
tralian Rakicic.


The movies come to Centralia
FILMS
for Birdsville
By DOUGLAS STEWART
ARTISTS, writers and film-makers
have been giving Centralia such a
doing-over lately that one is almost
afraid to go there for fear of
getting lost in the crowd. About the
dead limit would be to stumble on the
party of schoolboys who camped at
Ayer’s Rock.
My own recent trip took me to Marree
and Birdsville, so I missed the spectacle
of Namatjira and his 13 dark compatriots,
including a woman, all industriously
painting the scenery out from Alice
Springs. But even so the Flinders Ranges
on the way up seemed to have been
invented by Hans Heysen, and the town-
ship of Farina, with its single bluestone
store and two or three broken-down
wagons’ on the purple rim of the gibber-
plain against the sky, was pure Drysdale.
It looked as if the first pioneers, creaking
in exhausted with their bullocks or
camels, had taken one look at the enor-
mity of barren stone ahead of them and
said “Oh my God, no further! ”
Even after leaving the railway-line at
Marree and turning north along the
Birdsville Track, all the station-people
knew George Farwell and Ernestine Hill
—and spoke very well of them, too;
George Farwell’s This Land of Mirage
says all that needs to be said about that
faint, looping, sand-blown cattle-pad,
haunted by dingoes and lined with bleach-
ing bones, that winds 300 miles across
the sandhills and gibber-plains from South
Australia into Queensland.
There seems, in fact, to be something
of a cult of the Centre —and the North —
going on at the moment. What it means
I don’t know. Maybe, at its deepest,
some turning of the national mind to that
fierce and heroic country as a source of
power; the sort of renaissance A. D.
Hope had in mind when he wrote:
Yet there are some like me turn gladly home
From the lush jungle of modern thought,
to find
The Arabian desert of the human mind,
Hoping, if still from the deserts the prophets
come,
Such savage and scarlet as no green hills
dare
Springs in that waste, some spirit which
escapes
The learned doubt, the chatter of cultured
apes
Which is called civilisation over there.
Or maybe it is just that the Centre is
the last place left for the travel-writer
to go, the last outcrop of the romantic
pioneering period ; and is becoming in-
creasingly easy to get to ; and so is due
for exploitation and as much destruction
of its spirit as the tourist can bring to it.
From that point of view—and with
the knowledge that Charles Chauvel was
somewhere further up the country making
a film —it did seem a little ominous to
be going to Birdsville to do some dialogue
and narration for a film of the Track
which John Heyer is making with the
Shell film-unit; and to arrive in the
township simultaneously with its first
16mm. projector for showing motion-
pictures—it was slung on the back of
Monty Scobie’s mail-carrying blitz-buggy
among a load of timber, drums of petrol,
stores, boxes of dingo-baits, a young
fellow covered with whiskers and looking
for work, and about a dozen assorted
blackfellows, men, women and children.
The children cried and coughed in the
cold nights, but every time we stopped
for a moment in the sunlight on the three-
days’ bumpy journey, exploded out of
the truck and bounced yelling for joy
over the gibbers and the bindi-eyes like
human roly-polies.
The projector was for Sergeant V. M.
Barlow of the Queensland Mounted Police,
stationed with one constable in the clean
cool barracks at Birdsville—this was
winter, before the heat and the dust-
storms —to look after about 200,000
square-miles of cattle-stations, sand
and stone. On a rise above a
billabong of the Diamantina, Birdsville is
just across the Queensland border from
South Australia and its nearest neighbors
are two deserts —the red sandridges of
the Simpson, where Leichhardt is sup-
posed to have perished, and the purple
wilderness of Sturt’s Stony Desert.
There isn’t much crime in all this
colossal emptiness. Constable Teague,
looking after 100,000 square miles of
South Australia from Marree, had only
dingo-scalps in his lock-up; and very
ripe company they would have been for
any malefactor. But Sergeant Barlow
has plenty to keep him busy in the mild
way appropriate to the land where no-
body ever hurries. His wife, by dili-
gently watering the desert, has a surpris-
ingly green garden to occupy her time ;
also two children. The sergeant is the
Birdsville Post Office, the Weather
Bureau, the Commonwealth Savings
Bank, the Registrar of Births and Deaths
(once he conducted the burial-service for
a settler’s first-born child), the Labor
Agent, the Inspector of Stock and
Slaughterhouses, the Protector of Abo-
rigines and half a dozen other dignitaries
all rolled into one. Also he is the moving
spirit of the Diamantina Entertainment
Club, and it is this club which is now,
for the first time in history, going to show
movies in Birdsville.
The club’s trustees are F. J. Roberts, of
the Birdsville Hotel, L. V. Morton, of
Roseberth station, and J. E. Gaffney, of
Alton Downs. They raised £4OO to buy
equipment and are going to show films
once a week at the A.I.M. hostel, which
is in process of rebuilding after being
burnt down last year. It will be a free
show, open to black and white alike, and
it’s intended to provide the town with
one of its very rare social gatherings, to
break the monotony for the women, and
to provide some visual education for the
children. Films have been promised from
Shell, Vacuum, the Road Safety Council
and the Queensland Education Depart-
ment, and Sergeant Barlow hopes that
anyone else who has 16mm. stuff to lend
will remember Birdsville... It’s a long
way from anywhere out there.
As for the film I was working on with
John Heyer—l’m not quite sure at this
stage what will and what won’t be in it.
So much depends, for instance, on whether
you can catch a dingo to do the dingo-
sequences, and whether he’ll co-operate
if you do catch him ; and on whether
or not the helicopter will be available at
the last minute to do the aerial shots ;
and whether or not it will really be prac-
ticable to photograph brumbies while
bounding over the gibber-plains in a land-
rover at 60 miles an hour.
The last I saw of John Heyer, when
much still remained to be settled, he and
Mrs. Heyer were making camp in a
dust-storm at Clifton Hills; while I,
having had a cup of tea from* Mrs.
Wilson, was setting out again with the
tireless Monty Scobie to bump through
the night towards Marree —only ■ one
headlight working on the battered blitz-
buggy, the radiator boiling every twenty
minutes, the cold wind blowing dust over
what little could be seen of the track
on the stones . . . and a very comfortable
camp under a thorn-bush when Monty
at last thought of snatching a few hours’
sleep.
But John Heyer had by that time met
Tom Kruse, Monty’s partner in the mail-
run, at Clifton Hills —Tom had been
dam-sinking for months on one of the
stations, camped out with his blonde wife
and two healthy little fair-haired
children —and things seemed vaguely to
be taking shape. He was going with
Tom to look for locations off the track
a bit where there was still water in the
Cooper waterholes; out by Koperamanna
and Kilalpaninna, where Father Vogel-
sang had the Lutheran mission years
ago and where, at the moment, parties
from the Oldfields’ station at Ettadunna
(or Ethadinna ; the spelling varies) are
catching perch and bream, a hundred in
a day. They use fish-traps.
The Koperamanna ruins and something
of Father Vogelsang’s story were one
firmly-planned sequence for the film ; and
I daresay the rest of it is beginning to
take shape by now.
In general it is to be a documentary
of an impressionist kind on the Birds-
ville Track, dramatising the sort of inci-
dents that are likely to happen along it.
John Heyer has an international repu-
tation for the films he has made about
the Murray Valley and the inter-State
railways, and he should make a good thing
of this one: for it’s superb country to
photograph; and, when neighbors live
50 and 80 miles apart, and there’s no
water anywhere unless you keep strictly
to the Track to find the artesian-bores
(they say 36 hours without Water is the
limit of human endurance in the summer),
and when the only way of getting medical
aid is to contact the Flying Doctor at
Broken Hill by radio, plenty of dramatic
things can, and do, happen in it.
While I was up there a stockman broke
his leg out mustering at the back of one
of the stations ; his companions called
up Broken Hill on their portable trans-
ceiver and were told to clear a landing-
strip for the doctor; but when the plane
arrived the pilot didn’t trust the strip,
flew off again, and—l didn’t hear the end
of that story. At Ettadunna a man and
a boy were missing in a land-rover, and
another land-rover, sent in search of
them, had also failed to turn up . . .
People live comfortably on the bare
stones, prosperously now that the Cooper
has been down three years in succession
and rain has brought the white everlast-
ings to fatten the cattle; the children,
except that they get sore eyes, all look
wonderfully healthy. But it’s cruel
country, always on the edge of drought,
always close to danger.
The beauty of it is its utter difference
from anywhere else.
All the way up from Sydney the country
is really very much the same ; especially
in this good season when even away out
west everything is green and fertile. If
it becomes captivating with wild-
life around Nyngan, Cobar and Wil-
cannia, where kangaroos feed at the road-
side under the yellow-flowering mulga or
emus gather up their skirts and run like
fat, indignant old ladies bobbing across
the plains, it is still the same Australia:
the wide road shooting miles and miles
without a bend or a dip through the flat
paddocks white with daisies —so white
you’d think a hailstorm had fallen over
hundreds of square miles —the enormous,
empty continent aching for population,
seeming capable of supporting millions,
waiting for some vast and noble destiny
we can hardly conceive .'. . the Australia
of the coast, only a little harder, and
much more lonely.
Even the Flinders Ranges, thrown care-
lessly into this giant continent like a
handful of pebbles in a lake, are com-
panionable, familiar country ; the South
Australian Government runs a guesthouse
among them, and if the ridges are formid-
able enough in their red stone cliffs there
are the loveliest camping-places along the
foothills where the big red-boled gum-
trees shade the long green grass and the
shingle of the dry river-beds.
Then, coming closer to Marree through
Beltana, where the three aborigines
jogged along the road in a ramshackle
cart drawn by three donkeys with a white
foal trotting alongside, suddenly there is
nothing ; nothing but an enormous wilder-
ness of stones. Little stones, pebbles ;
white bits of quartz, crystalline fragments
that glitter like diamonds, red and brown
and purple stones burnished by the blow-
ing sand ; incredible millions of pebbles,
with here and there a gibber as big as a
fist or a man’s head, packed together in
a tight mosaic exactly like the tesselated
pavements laid bare in Bath or Dor-
chester when they dig up the Roman
ruins. An occasional thorn-bush, the
stunted wirra-bush whose narcotic leaves
the blackfellows mix with their tobacco,
patches of everlastings, saltbush, sand-
ridges, sometimes the little low hills that
are called “jump-up country,” mostly
nothing but stones. The myriads of
pebbles, white and brown and red, blend
together in one vast purple plain, giving
a curious effect of being very high up,
the uttermost limit of the earth, too close
to the sun. There is a searing light on
it, and the horizon is rimmed with mirage.
Birdsville, at the far end, when you
have come through 300 miles of this sort
of country, is perfect in its way, some-
thing materialised out of the desert by
necessity and with not a stick or a stone
or a person or a goat more than necessity
demands.
There were the sergeant and his con-
stable ; Mr. and Mrs. Roberts friendly
and informal in their old bluestone hotel
which everyone says looks like a jail;
Harry Afford, an old-timer full of stories
of mail-carrying and managing stations
for Kidman and of the days when Birds-
ville was an important customs-post col-
lecting a pound a head on cattle crossing
the border (Mr. Afford is a half-brother
of the Sydney playwright Max Afford
and an old-time Bulletin contributor).
There were Padre Les McKay, of the
A.1.M., whose wife lives in Toowoomba
while he patrols a parish running from
Innamincka to Burketown on the Gulf
of Carpentaria, now working on the new
hostel with Ben Hargreaves, a Sydney
builder who has done many jobs in the
outback since he met John Flynn at
Tennant Creek 20 years ago; Sister
Chenoweth (Sister Henry was on vacation
down the Track) attending to a patient
with an injured leg in the present make-
shift hostel and acting as a sort of tele-
phone-exchange for all the radio-calls of
the district. . . Half a dozen people, half
a dozen buildings of stone or corrugated-
iron, a few blackfellows’ humpies out on
the gibbers with old Joe the rainmaker in
proud isolation in a sort of kennel which
he shares with two dogs over by the
muddy billabong, waiting to be buried
with his head to the east so that he can
tunnel through the earth to Toorajumpa,
where a beautiful young gin, his first
love, is waiting for him . . . and that is
Birdsville. The rest is immensity: the
iron-red gibber-plain, the loneliness,
nothing.
Even if the Diamantina Entertainment
Club attracts the whole population of 27
whites and about 20 blackfellows, the
picture-shows at the hostel, with the
wind blowing in from the desert and the
wakeful goats bleating on the gibbers, are
not likely, after all, to create quite the
suburban atmosphere of Saturday night
at Bondi. And as for tourists—it’s still
a long way to Birdsville.
Little Sticks
I made my fire of little sticks
And thought to sit beside it.
It burned so hot it melted bricks
And all the chimney ran away
In a twisting line of molten clay
And warmth rode out astride it.
There is awful power in little things.
Last week I filled my billy
Where the water outward springs
Down the mountain making creeks.
I made a fire of little sticks.
The water boiled up silly.
I threw the tea on a bursting bubble;
Tapped the leaves well down.
No tea I had for all my trouble;
It burned too hot and wouldn’t cool
So I hooked it over the spring-filled
pool
On a wattle-branch drooped down.
Today, as I was riding there.
Thought of the well-brewed billy.
It dangled empty in the air
With the bottom melted cleanly out
And all around the steam did spout.
The pool was bubbling silly.
I’ll build my book as the fire was
made
And, if I make it right.
Each thought criss-cross on the
other laid
For each man’s fancy held apart,
Then may it leap and catch a heart
And set it burning bright.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


One of the most Important
Documents you
will ever sign . . .
ft
‘J
111
//>
YOUR Will is a document that vitally affects the
welfare of your dependants. It should be competently
drawn; it should be promptly revised whenever
necessary; and it should appoint an efficient Executor
and Trustee for your Estate. In this regard, a wise
choice is to appoint the Permanent Trustee Company
. . . specialists in Trust and Estate management since
1887, with over £1,000,000 of uncalled capital and assets
as your guarantee of security.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet—“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
Permanent
Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman,
G. Moncrieff Barron,
0.8. E.. M.B.Ch.M.,
F.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager:
F. R. Garland.
Secretary: P. H. A ndrews.
Pastoral Inspector:
Hugh A. Stewart.
PT.60.15
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CORONATION CEREMONY CHANGES
“There is every reason to expect
that Queen Elizabeth 11, whose
accession actually took place on
colonial soil, will mean more to
her subjects throughout the
dependent Empire than any of the
sovereigns who have preceded her.
“Because she is young and eager
to travel, and because she com-
mands all the opportunities of the
air age, she will be more frequently
seen among them; and she will
look forward to admitting many
communities now in tutelage to
the full status of self-government.”
Hence the many suggestions
now being made for changes in
the coronation ceremony, so that
in itself it would express and
emphasise (as the London
“Times British Colonies Review”
puts it) that her Majesty “is being
crowned, not merely as the
occupant of the oldest national
throne in the world, but as the
head of many young nations all
pressing boldly forward on the
paths of political progress and
emancipation.”
Therefore (suggests the
“Review”) it is not enough that
contingents of colonial troops
will march in the procession
from Buckingham Palace and
that Governors or their represen-
tatives will have places of honor
among the spectators in the
Abbey: “The sons and daughters
of all the races over which she
rules should in some way figure,
not as spectators, but as parti-
cipants in her inauguration.”
Magic Power
That is difficult to bring about;
for the coronation rite has been
dev ' oped over a thousand years
as an English—not even a
British —ceremony; and in its
antiquity lie most of its magic
and its power to inspire and
uplift:
“Few would wish to interfere
with the immemorial prayers and
the symbolic investiture with
crown, sceptre and orb, colobium
sindonis and robe royal, sword
of State and golden spurs. Nor
is there any occasion to do so ;
for this innermost part of the
consecration is of quite general
import, dedicating her Majesty
not as head of any limited com-
munity, but simply as an
anointed Queen. Among the
comparatively few persons who
can take part in it, it is possible
that places might be found for
the representatives of the self-
governing Dominions; but the
colonies are too numerous to
play equal parts here.
“Where their opportunity
might come is in the secular
ceremony which —still within the
Abbey—follows on the consecra-
tion. The Queen, crowned and
sceptred, is placed on her throne,
thereby taking symbolic posses-
sion of her kingdom. Then her
spiritual lords kneel and vow
fealty, and her temporal lords
do homage, declaring themselves
her ‘liege men of life and limb
and of earthly worship.’ ”
Ancient and Modern
That is a feudal ceremony,
full of historical association, very
ancient, noble and picturesque,
but not sacred as the rite of
anointing and investiture is
sacred. The coronation is more
ancient than the feudal system
—and more modern:
“It is surely time that when
the Queen is enthroned she
should be deemed to take posses-
sion, not of England only, but
of every realm and dependency
of which she is separately the
head ; and that representatives of
every one of them should have
the duty and the privilege,
equally with the peers of the
United Kingdom, of making
their vows of loyalty at the foot
of the Throne.
“It need not be in the medieval
form; indeed, it would be the
more impressive if every delega-
tion made its declaration in its
own language. What is
important is that Nigerians and
West Indians, Baganda and
Malays, Cypriots, Maltese and
Pacific Islanders shall be able to
go home and tell their fellow-
subjects how they have not only
watched a splendid pageant but
themselves helped, on behalf of
their country, in the making of
a Queen.”
Dominions’ Part
Originally suggested in a
London “Times” editorial (the
main points of which were given
here at the time), coronation
changes on some such lines now
seem fairly certain. Those advo-
cating them include the quarterly
review, the “Round Table”;
they are dealt with also by
London “Observer.”
“The purpose of the cere-
mony,” says the “Round Table”
writer, “is the solemn rededica-
tion of all the peoples of the
Commonwealth in the Queen’s
person ; that is. of seven inde-
pendent nations, in each of
which she is the head of society ;
of a great Asiatic Republic, to
whose citizens she is the symbol
of their free association with
their brethren rpund the globe ;
and of a large number of com-
munities in tutelage, who look
forward to progressive emanci-
pation under her suzerainty.
“But the form,” the writer
adds, “is substantially the same
that was observed for Anglo-
Saxon kings holding a few
southern shires of England in
precarious resistance against the
heathen Danes.”
While the general design of
the rite could not be altered
without destroying it, “for it is
all founded upon a compact be-
tween the Throne of Wessex and
the See of Canterbury, and em-
phasises the historical fact that
the State in England grew up
under the protection of the
church,” still representatives of
the whole Commonwealth should
nowadays play an active part in
it, and there is no legal obstacle
to this.
The main difficulties, it is ex-
plained, are practical ones of
space and accommodation. First
claim on the Abbey transepts,
where laymen who are to take
part in the ceremony should be
placed, belongs traditionally to
the lay peerage—“a body a few
score strong when Henry 111
built the present Abbey Church,
but now swollen to something
like 800, each of whom, if
married, is entitled to a place for
his wife.”
Overseas Bishops
The chief suggestion made for
providing more room in the
—Toronto ( Canada ) “Globe and Mail”
ALL WORKING FOR IVAN
Abbey is that the preliminary
enthronement in Westminster
Hall, suspended in 1831, should
be revived. It “legitimately con-
cerns the United Kingdom
alone, and is carried out by the
temporal Lords, who raise the
Queen into a marble chair set
upon the Queen’s Bench, her
seat of justice. This enthrone-
ment is believed to descend
from the custom of the Teutonic
warbands of the Anglo-Saxon
invasion; the cornitatus, or close
companions in battle of the dead
chief, having chosen his succes-
sor, elevated him on a shield
and carried him round the camp
to show him to the warriors,”
If the lay peers were once
more to perform the West-
minster Hall enthronement,
“their most ancient part in the
coronation,” and if the Com-
mons were invited to share in it,
then the Members of both
Houses of Parliament could be
represented in the transepts of
the Abbey only by delegations,
“without prejudice to their claim
as distinguished guests to seats
in the general congregation.”
This would make room in
the transepts for v hundreds of
places, which could be allotted
to delegations from all the
legislatures of the Common-
wealth and Empire, and to
official representatives of the
Governors-General and Gover-
nors, who would be instructed
to bring delegates from the
native races of their territories.
From these delegations, it is
proposed, “statesmen or com-
manders” might be chosen to
carry the ceremonial Swords of
State; Commonwealth repre-
sentatives might take part also
in the Inthronisation and in the
tendering of oaths of loyalty.
It is suggested, further, that
bishops from the Queen’s over-
seas realms should be invited by
the Archbishop of Canterbury
to assist him in conducting the
rite, following the “precedent
created by his predecessor Bald-
win, who extended his courtesy
to Walter, Archbishop of
Rouen, at the first coronation
of Richard Coeur de Lion.”
Fruits of Folly
“Through the crass folly of
the United States, and the craven
concurrence of a British Socialist
Government,” notes London
“Financial Times,” “the Dutch
have been largely deprived of
their beneficent place in South-
East Asia.
“One of the consequences of
that folly is that both Britain
and France are now expending
much life and treasure in Malaya
and Indo-China, resisting the
inrush of Communism that has
been encouraged by the Dutch
departure from Indonesia.
“The cruel pressure put upon
the Dutch Government by the
Americans and British, at a time
when the Netherlands were with-
out arms and striving to deal
with the harsh legacy of the
Nazi occupation of their
country, has had dire effects in
South-East Asia which are only
too well known.
“Britain herself has been work-
ing hard to fulfil the prophecies
of Lenin. [Russian policy, as
defined by Stalin in his book on
the Principles of Leninism, is “to
wait for the economic collapse of
the countries of Western civilisa-
tion so that they can easily be
overcome, and to speed the
process by helping the colored
peoples of Asia and Africa to
revolt against what is called the
tyranny of the white man.”]
“Mr. Attlee’s scuttle from
Burma made it inevitable that
we [British] should rapidly depart
from India, If this move had to
be made it should have been in
a seemly fashion. The greatest
stain on the record of British
rule in India is the panic-stricken
withdrawal ordered by the
Socialist Government which
caused wholesale massacres and
brought untold hardships to
millions of innocent people,
“No one can yet measure the
full consequences of our
[Britain’s] panic-stricken rush
from India and Burma. But
some of the results are only too
evident in British colonies in
Africa and elsewhere. Through
‘bush telegraphy,’ and copious
propaganda by the Communists,
colonial peoples under British
rule in Africa are being told that,
just as we suddenly evacuated
India, so we shall also precipi-
tately leave the African
colonies.”
Puzzled Refugee
As “a refugee familiar with
both Russian and German prison
camps,” a London “Daily
Telegraph” letter-writer finds
himself puzzled by “the
innocence of British travellers”
who visit and return from
Russia, and “whose attitude is
like that of children on a
Sunday-school excursion.
“They admire when- a block of
flats goes up in Moscow. If the
same happens, let us say, at
Camberwell in London, nobody
would think it deserved special
praise.
“The same admiration is
common in Russia about power-
stations, plants, industrial
developments, theatres and
concert-halls.
“Is this really an achievement
in such a vast country? Is it an
achievement when citizens wear
clothes and sometimes own
wristlet-watches ?
“A hovel in Britain means
poverty, but in the Soviet Union
it is just a rural and picturesque
dwelling,”
Traduced J. Bull
There has been a good deal
of indignation in the British
Press on the score that the Anzus
Treaty as much as says J. Bull is
a spent force.
The indignation may be
healthy, for nowhere more than
in the British Press itself in
recent years has that notion been
propagated.
These “Uncabled Additions”
pages have repeatedly instanced,
with surprise, examples of this
phenomenon of that Press
beggaring J. Bull. Readers may
recall articles under headings
such as “Can This Be J. Bull?”


FRENCH
Corn Cure
> Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
Anthony Horderns’
FOR PLEASURE IN LEISURE
Tailored For
Your Comfort
Over the centuries, craftsmen,
expert *in the art of Trouser
construction, have been seek-
ing to tailor the Ideal Trouser
for men. Gathering up their
experience and knowledge.
Stamina’s stylists have created
a Trouser that is literally
Tailored for your comfort.
You will enjoy the snug fit, the
smart appearance, but above
all, as you sink into your chair
you will enjoy the luxury of
the Tailored Comfort that is
the Joy of wearing Trousers
by Stamina. And here is
good news there is a pair
pre-tailored for You
ASK FOR
Stamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Obtainable from all lea fling Men’s W ear Stores
€ll-11
in which an astonishingly wide
coverage of the British Press has
been shown depicting the old
chap not only as on his beam
ends but decrepit with it, “a
second-rate Power ...” “never
again will be a first Power” and
suchlike findings by the dozen.
Pretty well every airmail for
years now has carried some
example or examples of this dis-
crediting of J.B. Here is a merely
mild but as far as it goes typical
example from the current air-
mail lot, a London “New States-
man” comment:
“It is one thing for a British
Government to accept the prin-
ciple of alliance against Moscow
with the strongest anti-
communist Power in the world
[i.e., U.S.]: it is rather more
difficult for the declining [i.e.,
J. Bull] and the ascendant [i.e.,
Uncle Sam] imperialist to work
out without friction the details
of their co-operation.”
That is, as stated, really quite
mild to what has been said of
J.B. by his own Press, which now
seems surprised that some may
have taken its traducing
seriously.
The German Dilemma
Taking all the circumstances
into consideration, the author of
Policy for the West, Barbara
Ward, in a London “Twentieth
Century” article, finds that the
division of Germany may be
the least of a number of alter-
native evils:
“The reunion of Germany at
present would entail the adher-
ence of a very powerful nation
to one side or other in the cold
war. If Germany opted for the
West, the Atlantic alliance would
include for the first time a
potentially aggressive partner
with specific, passionately-held
territorial claims against the
Soviet bloc.
“Under such conditions the
risk of general war would seem
almost greater than in the pre-
sent division.
“Yet a Communist Germany,
adding the Ruhr to the East’s
industrial potential, would spell
the end of free Europe.
“Nor is it possible to believe
that peace would follow from
the manoeuvres of a supposedly
neutral Germany playing off
East against West to its own
advantage.
“It may therefore be that, in
the present degree of interna-
tional tension, the division of
Germany is least likely to pre-
cipitate general war.”
Tom-tom Legislators
Taking a poor view of Britain’s
“increasing folly in setting up
all sorts of fancy Legislatures in
the African and Caribbean
colonies,” London “Financial
Times” comments :
“Ever since the war, White-
hall has suffered from an itch to
plant new Constitutions in what
are charitably called backward
countries.
“When it is represented to our
politicians and bureaucrats that
peoples who are illiterate, and
whose pleasures include torture
and tom-tom exhibitionism, are
hardly fitted to vote, they reply
that there is nothing in literacy.
“People can be induced to
vote, they argue, by setting up
pictures of lions and elephants
to mark the parties to which the
candidates belong, so that the
simplest African can decide
whether he is a lion-man or an
elephant-man.
“What a wonderful notion of
Parliamentary Government! ”
Migration Issue
London “Daily Telegraph”
takes a look this way;
“In Australia, the average
trade - unionist regards each
immigrant as a potential threat
to the artificial wage-structure
which labor shortage has helped
to build.
“In September, for example,
the Australian T.U.C. passed, by
a large majority, a resolution
demanding an immediate cessa-
tion of immigration as being
inimical to full employment.
“The pitiful shortsightedness
of such a view must be apparent
to anyone with a cursory know-
—" Kerenpuh"' ( Yugoslavia )
“Lieutenant Radulescu, you have shown unheard-of patriotism
to your Rumania. You have returned to your base!”
ledge of American history; but
it is strongly held, and not to be
ignored. An authoritative
inquiry, able to assess the rela-
tive importance of economic,
political and military evidence
and conclude accordingly, is
overdue.”
Dragnet Digest
Recovered Germany.
“Western Germany’s economic
recovery [London “Economist”
report] has taken place with
such speed that even without the
Eastern zone it is once again a
formidable Power.”
German Ships. London
“Daily Mail” report: “Germany
is building tankers, cargo ships
and ocean liners at an ever-
increasing pace. Since restric-
tions were lifted orders are
streaming into her yards. She
is already back to one-third of
her pre-war fleet—-a good record
for a half-country which was so
recently flat on the floor.”
Kremlin Orders• —The present
Kremlin “directive for political
warfare is clear,” comments
London “Economist”: “Set
German against German and
Japanese against Japanese; ex-
ploit all disagreements between
the United States and its allies ;
get the Americans out of Europe
and, if possible, the British out
of Asia ; keep the colonial wars
simmering but never let them
boil over.”
Push-button War. “It is
clearly no longer true,” declares
New York “Herald Tribune,”
“that ‘nothing has been perfected
about push - button warfare
except the push-button.”’ The
guided missiles that were used in
Korea it describes as merely
primitive things that would not
have been used at all if far more
advanced things of their kind
were not already “well on the
way.”
World War 111 Date.— U.S.
military heads whose job is to
watch the signs and advise on
the possible war date at first
reckoned 1952 the danger year
(i.e., the year they expected the
Soviets to reach top military
strength). This was later
amended to 1954; now, says
“U.S. News and World Report,”
they have advanced the date to
1955.
Comparative Aid. —Referring
to the “clumsy impertinence of
Russian and Chinese attempts to
gain kudos from relatively small
amounts of assistance” to India,
London “Economist” quotes
latest figures available on the
grain sent there in the form of
aid. In a period of over 12
months, of a total of 6.7 million
tons, 3.8 million tons —over 50
per cent. —came from the United
States, 2.3 million tons from
other non-Communist countries,
500.000 tons from China and
100.000 tons from the Soviet
Union.
Per Cauliflower. —Paris / cor-
respondent, London “Times”:
“One thing which appears to
nettle some consumers is finding
a note slipped into the heart of
a cauliflower saying: T was
bought for three francs. How
much did you pay for me?’ The
price of a cauliflower is between
80 and 100 francs.”
Force for Abadan. —London
“Daily Express,” showing more
readiness to fight (or to have
John Bull fight) than most of its
reptile contemporaries: Britain
“should safeguard the Abadan
oil refinery. She should make
sure —by force if necessary—that
this great British asset never falls
into the hands of a satellite
State.”
Moussadek Bluff. —Not all
American comment favors
appeasing Moussadek. On his
statement that rejection of his
terms might compel Persia “to
surrender itself to probable
future events which would be to
the detriment of world peace,”
New York “Times” remarked:
“That is like saying ‘Pay me or
I will set the world afire.’ Appar-
ently Dr. Moussadek still counts
on the United States to bail him
out. It is time to tell him that
he is mistaken.”
U.S. in the Middle East. —
“U.S. News and World Report”
notes a “sign of the times”:
“U.S. legations in Lebanon,
Jordan and Syria have now been
raised to Embassy rank. The
U.S., from now on, is play-
ing a bigger role in the Middle
East. Britain, still a factor, is
taking a back seat.*
American Nightmare. —Seen
by a London “News Chronicle”
correspondent: “American
industry lives in the shadow of
a great fear: the fear as to what
will happen when the present
rearmament drive comes to an
end.”
Canadian Doubts. Ottawa
correspondent of London
“Economist,” noting in Canada’s
approach to the coming British
Commonwealth Conference “an
uncomfortable mixture of irrita-
tion and anxiety”: “Both are
intensified by the very deep-
seated Canadian instinct to pre-
serve the link with Britain and
the link with the United States in
the closest possible balance.
Canada never wants to be forced
to choose between the two links.
It instinctively dreads and tries
to avert the collapse of either ;
and at the present time the only
serious danger is the collapse of
the sterling counterbalance to
the United States.”


INSURANCE -—for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(.Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWB 13 I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
The Radio audience—the nation over agree:
DAVEY
in
Australia's biggest
and brightest quiz show
“GIVE IT A GO”
on Monday nights at 8
presented by the makers of PERSIL
and produced by the Macquarie Broadcastirig Service.
2GB • 3AW * 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 2PK 2MW 2LT 2MG 2LF 3CV 4BU 4GY 6WB 6MD 7LA
and also heard over 38 other stations throughout Australia.
■M
m
v v S
': :; V" : ; : :-: ::: '-: ; '.v ;: :
V' i
RABBITS
CAN'T RESIST
NEW DECOY
Any poison will kill the “Bunny” IF
you can get him to take it. It is the
DECOY that counts. Years of never-
ending research and a. total of 980
experiments have produced a Rabbit
Decoy that the “Bunny” won’t re-
sist, and can’t resist. Results have
proved it. Testimonials from grate-
ful and satisfied users all' over Aus-
tralia have proved it.
“Lurex” Lures are supplied to the
Dept, of Lands (Queensland Govern-
ment), proof again that “LUREX”
IS BEST.
NOW! We Offer You
“LUREX 980”
a New, better “Lurex” with the new
secret ingredient, a substance in-
vented by nature herself.
Now you can trick Mr. Rabbit no
matter what bait you use—oats,
apples, thistle roots —it’s all the
same if you add a few drops of
“LUREX 980” to every batch.
“LUREX” has always been the only
Rabbit Lure ever sold under Money
Back Guarantee. Summer or winter,
green or dry feed, “LUREX 980”
NEVER FAILS.
DON’T waste time and money on
old-fashioned “Decoys”—
Send right now for
“LUREX 980”
I Bottle sufficient for thousands
of baits— 22/6, Post Free.
“LUREX" Fox and Dingo Lure,
21/6.
“L.L.33"—World’s fastest Dingo
Poison, kills within 1 0 yards after
Fox or Dingo takes bait—
-72/6 for 500 Baits.
MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES
(Aust.)
BOX 844, G.P.0., Sydney
Missing Friends
TOALFMSD COLLINS (son of-WILLIAM
COLLINS AND ELIZABETH COLLINS.
n6e SMEITH), formerly of Wellington,
New Zealand, and his issue, and all persons
claiming by through or under them or
any of them. —PURSUANT to an order
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand yon
are required to send in to the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Wellington, New Zealand, your
claim to share in the estate of NELLIE
SOPHIA SMEITH JANE JORDAN
COLLINS, late of Palmerston North,
Spinster, deceased, so as to be received
by the PUBLIC TRUSTEE on or before
the 31st day of January, 1953, failing
which the estate may be distributed dis-
regarding your claim. —THE SOLICITOR,
Public Trust Office, Wellington.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE FREDERICK BURLINSON
formerly of Bondi New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that NORMA MURIEL
BURLINSON has filed a - Petition for
Divorce No. 8823 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act (1899) If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 13th of January 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER AND
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.-—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — lx Divorce.
TO SYLVIA MATTHEWS and NORMAN
PAULL late of Roseberry.—TAKE
NOTICE that WILLIAM RAYMOND
MATTHEWS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1312 of 1951 on the ground
of adultery If either of you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divqrpe Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 6th day of January
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from R. W. FRASER &
PARKINSON, Solicitors, 51 Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO WILLIAM JAMES GLEN formerly of
Perth. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ESTHER GLEN has commenced proceed-
ings against you in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia for Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground that you have
been separated from her for a continuous
period of not less than five years and there
is no reasonable likelihood of co-habita-
tion being resumed If you desire to de-
fend such proceedings you must file your
defence at the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within 40 clear
days from the date of this publication
In default of your so doing the case may
proceed and the Court will pronounce
judgment and make orders against you
in your absence. —DATED this 20th day
of ’ October, 1952.—G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
TO WILLIAM HAROLD GEORGE for-
merly of 133 Off Hunter Street Wickham
Newcastle New South Wales. — TAKE
NOTICE that your wife PATRICIA RUTH
GEORGE has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of separation for a continuous
period* of not less than five years im-
mediately preceding the commencement of
this action there being no reasonable like-
lihood of co-habitation being resumed If
you desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your Defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within forty (40) clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the/ case may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence.
Dated this 2lst day of October, 19at—
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. DAVID
WALSH & MAZZA, Solicitors for PAT-
RICIA RUTH GEORGE, 23 Barrack
Street, Perth, .
Seems to me these troubles
always spread from seventeen.
There’s that single flat coming
vacant.”
“Several tenants have applied
for that flat,” I object. “The
Gearys have an application in,
so have the Bacchelis.”
“I know. But the Jenkinsons
can’t instigate nuisances if they’re
on their own —or not so easily.
They might easily start another
fire like they did last Christmas,
One must be objective. How-
ever, I shall expect your report.”
“The flat by itself” is a single
converted hut and stands far
enough from the main buildings
to be out of earshot of quarrels
and children’s noises. It is
remote from stamping feet along
the board-walks, and has , even
a small enclosed patch of garden,
carefully tended by the family
who are moving out. In the past
it has invariably been reserved
for estimable applicants who
have kept it in the state superb
isolation demands. I have a
great desire to see what old
Giovanni would make of that
little garden.
As for the Jenkinsons; they
are old, old Australians, and if
I like the Bacchelis and dislike
Mrs. Geary my feelings about
the Jenkinsons are completely,
absolutely and sterile! y negative.
Theirs is that stuporous nega-
tivity which calls forth no
responses. Jenkinson is a
drunkard and his wife is a
breeder: a sad defeated female
who cannot raise either smile or
scowl as she admits me to her
flat without apology for the dirt
of her kitchen, or for the
ammoniac stench of her bed-
rooms.
“Oh, yes,” she says dis-
piritedly ; “of course we’ve got
’em. They’re in the woodwork
in these places. They just come
out of the wood.”
Her monotonous voice whines
on and on. Three children follow
us into every room. Their little
noses drip steadily as if in
sympathy with their mother’s
monologue . . .
“I told the Welfare man last
week and he says so, too.
‘They’re in the wood,’ I told him,
‘and the kids ’ull just have to be
spotty till we get an ’ouse.’ ” I
make a mental note to pick a
bone with Charters, the Infant
Welfare inspector, when I see
him next. If he finds vermin he
should report it. Perhaps he is
just stupid enough to believe
Mrs. Jenkinson’s theory.
“Mr. Charters was here?” I
ask, all innocence.
“He was. Relief forms. Didn’t
you ’ear about Jenkinson? In
again. Langwidge and malicious
damage.' Six months.”
“You’d better come up to the
office and fix the forms for a
rental adjustment.”
“Mr. Charters done that.
Yestiddy. He seen about us
gettin’ that flat by itself, too.
More ground round it for the
kids to play in, ’e says. Com-
plaints about their row on the
boards or something. I dunno.
I expect I’ll ’ear.”
SO there, as the last aromatic
fumes of Giovanni’s wine
disperse, so there it all is
The estate-manager had his
mind made up yesterday. Never-
theless one must be impartial
and efficient. I return to my
office, pull down the Geary file
and write a detailed report in
their favor. To it I affix the most
recent medical certificate in
respect to Averil Geary, aged
11, chronic bronchitis and
asthma. X pin these documents
to the Gearys’ application for the
flat by itself.
Then, waiting for the clock-
hands to reach one o’clock, I
amuse myself by coloring the
sails of the boat drawn on the
blotter, with a red pencil.
“From thy wounded side
which flowed" •
Her dress clung stickily to her
body.
“Rock of ages cleft for me."
She felt the faintness sweep-
ing up from her neck and
clenched her teeth at the bright
flashes of light in front of her
eyes.
“Let me hide myself in thee"
She finished quickly and fell
forward over the keyboard.
She felt water being trickled
on her face and, coming back to
consciousness, saw them
gathered around her. For a
moment she felt panic.
“It’s the heat,” the minister
was saying.
“Yes, it’s the heat,” . they
chorused, and some of the
women sniggered to each other.
Elsie felt that there was a
matter of pride to be considered.
She told them she felt all right
again and scowled at the
sniggerers. The minister, per-
turbed, suggested that she should
go home, but Elsie, shoulders
squared and chest out, assured
them that she felt fine, and re-
commenced pumping at the
organ. So they drifted back to
their places, the women talking
in low voices, and the men
assuring Charlie that she would
be all right.
NANKI and Lois, on their
haunches, feet sunk in the
wet sand, watched closely.
Nanki was drawing a fish
slowly and lightly over the sur-
face of the sand. They ignored
the smooth sheet of water that
crept up to them regularly,
covering their ankles, as each
breaker reached its limit.
Nanki had watched his father
do it; noticed the quick, effort-
less movement as he snatched up
a sand-worm tempted to the sur-
face by the fish.
The moon threw a shimmer-
ing swathe of light on the sea,
extending to the horizon, the
edge of the little world at
Paradise Bay.
Lois studied Nanki’s face for
a moment.
“Too dead,” she announced.
Nanki looked at her, startled.
She took the fish, and, leaving
him squatting there, walked to
where the water came half way
up the calves of her legs and
began to soak the stiffening fish,
the ocean swirling around her
legs.
Nanki was crestfallen. There
was a matter of pride to be con-
sidered.
“Lois!” he called loudly and
she turned in surprise.
“Come here!” His tone was
more gentle.
She hesitated, looked at the
fish for support and, finding
none, came back to the shore.
She handed the fish to him, sub-
servient again.
They moved further up the
beach in the moonlight towards
the big bulky bluff that rose
darkly at the south end, knee-
deep in the ocean. A cooler
breeze blew in from the sea,
caressing their bodies.
“We’ll get some here,” Nanki
was saying, and they squatted
down together again.
The breeze became stronger
and blustered a little. Lois’s
dress, wet around the bottom,
began to flap uncomfortably at
her knees.
“It’s getting late,” she ven-
tured and shivered.
Nanki suddenly stood stock-
still, listening.
“They’ve finished,” he said in
an awed voice.
Together they turned and
began to walk quickly along the
beach, Nanki holding Lois’s
hand to help her.
“We can try again,” Lois was
saying hopefully.
The night had not been suc-
cessful. They hadn’t even seen
a sand-worm for bait, let alone
catch a fish. Nanki felt miser-
able.
“I want to come again,” Lois
said.
They clambered up the rocks,
Nanki almost lifting her in his
haste, and trotted up the slope
toward the humpies.
“I want to come again,
Nanki,” she said.
She leant forward to kiss him
lightly on the cheek and was
gone into the shadows in the
moment.
Nanki stood there for a few
moments, wondering, and heard
them coming up the hill.
ELSIE felt well out in the cool-
ness of the breeze, except for
the women fluttering around her.
But it was good to have Charlie’s
arm around her waist and hear
him speaking softly and sooth-
ingly. In the moonlight the hill
didn’t look so steep, but she
slipped once in the sand and
heard a murmur of alarm among
the women behind her.
“I’m all right,” she said
sharply, and leaned heavily on
Charlie’s shoulder.
They eased her on to the bed
and she dismissed them as soon
as possible. Charlie was making
a cup of tea.
“Don’t wake Nanki,” she told
him and he moved towards her.
“Elsie,” he asked softly, “what
is it?”
“Don’t you know, Charlie?”
He nodded and went back to
pour the tea.
“I hope it’s a girl this time,”
he said.
Nanki, in bed and shamming
sleep, heard them and wondered.
Charlie brought her a cup of
tea and sat on the edge of the
bed.
“A baby,” he said needlessly.
They sat there for a few
minutes, sipping tea.
“I wonder what Nanki would
think of a little girl.”
SORCERER’S
APPRENTICE
They say he held a sword.
I heard him speak a word,
but I have forgotten it:
a sound like crumbling stone,
or the slow descent of leaves.
With such a word he took
proud eagle and malignant hawk
captive in his net —
talons tangling in twine,
pinions bound like sheaves.
Memory is time blown bleak.
From this high-noon 1 seek
that time, that word stripped
bare;
tread space, touch height’s smooth
bole;
reach a summit and find
knifing the floes of day
only the eagle’s eye,
the hawk’s red stare.
The hawk destroys my soul;
the eagle devours my mind.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


Divorce /Notice
E (
I\ THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO IRIS REBECCA LANGLEY late of
Sydney (formerly IRIS REBECCA
KEYS) TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE
ALBERT LANGLEY has -filed Petition for
Divorce No. 3139 of 1952 on ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend this suit you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
3rd February 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from W. E.
SCOTTER & J- C- HISHWORTH, of 79
Elizabeth Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN.
Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends
WOULD GEORGE PEEKE, husband of
MARGARET PEEKE, or anyone who
t-nows of his present whereabouts, please
communicate 6 wßh the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zealand?
S/OP AT THIS SIGN FOR...
n
ATLANTIC
ghbhn
Swing over to the
Atlantic Solo Stations
for a completely New
Deal in automotive
service. Safeguard
your motor against
wear. Cut your costs
with the regular
planned check-ups
that spot troubles
before they begin. It all
adds up to miles more
Happy Motoring!
V
ATLANTIC
-flash-
A
is
fm
SSlf 3-52
STURT NOW!
Drive in at the
Atlantic Oval
Sign for the new
all - round Stop-
wear Service.
STOPWEAR
SERVICE
YOUR ATLANTIC
RETAILER CAN
BE TRUSTED FOR
• Quick and courteous
attention.
• Thorough, efficient
service.
• Dependable quality
products.
• Planned maintenance
and complete car-
care.
Dependable quality of Atlantic petroleum products,
derived from crudes won by Atlantic field-search and drill-
ing teams, and brought to you by Atlantic's own tanker-fleet,
has the backing of ninety years of refining experience.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Packhorse and Waterhole
by Buchanan and Three Years With
Thunderbolt. —5364.
Biographical details concerning the
following Australian writers—Martin
Benson, Burnett Gray, George Daniel
Humphreys, Francis Kenna, C. Louis
Randall, Michael J. Tully, Frank
O’Connell and Peter Austen.—s 363.
To buy second-hand or new copy
of Gallipoli: A Fading Vision by
North. —5356.
To buy copy of book of verse by
Kathleen Dalziel, published by the
Bread and Cheese Club, Melbourne,
some years ag0. —5355.
To hear from any reader who has
come across (in convict records) par-
ticulars of the escape from this colony
of Luke Dillon, who was transported
in 1831, He is mentioned by several
writers, including Judge Therry, but
there are no particulars of what hap-
pened to him between receiving a
conditional pardon in 1834 and a
free pardon in 1840. —5354.
To buy copy of National Income
of Australia by Clark and Crawford.
—5357.
To buy copy of The Life of
Matthew Flinders by Ernest Scott. —
5358.
Information Sought
Four men, I have been told, strove
to prevent the break-up of the Roman
Empire. The three I know are
Belisarius, Narses and Stilicho. Who
was the fourth ? Also, did Belisarius
die in disgrace as a beggar ?
Impossible to assert that only four
men sought to avert the fall of the
empire. In any case such a list would
need to include at least the names of
the emperors Constantine, Diocletian
and Justinian. The three named
could be on the list. Stilicho (assas-
sinated a.d. 408) is accused of having
plotted with enemies of the State, but,
according to Gibbon, he sought peace
with the barbarian chiefs because he
realised the Roman weakness. Justinian
(East Roman emperor 527-565) at-
tempted to recover some of the
empire lost when the western half
collapsed (476); Belisarius and Narses
were the generals he employed. The
story of Belisarius wandering as a
blind beggar through the streets of
Constantinople is now known to be
a later invention. He was, however,
imprisoned in the palace on a charge
of conspiring against Justinian, but
was soon restored to his former
wealth and position.
* * * *
Origin of Australian slang-term
“pom,” and from when approxi-
mately does it date ?
Oxford English Dictionary, dating
it “Australia, 1922,” and defining it
as “a newcomer from the ‘old
country,’ ” says it is “of obscure
origin.” However, most grammatical
experts derive it from “pomegranate.”
Webster thus derives it, describing it
as Australian slang for an English
immigrant (from the usual high colot
of the cheeks). The Australian
Language, by Sidney J. Baker, says:
“The generally accepted theory of
the origin of pommy is that it came
from jimmy grant (1845), as a rhyme
on immigrant, which was shortened
to jimmy, the word then being merged
by rhyme into pomegranate (it is
suggested that the rosy-cheeked Eng-
lish may have given some association
with the ruddy fruit) and subsequently
clipped back to pommy. Further
clipping to pom has also taken place.
Although claimed by some people to
be a long-established word in Aus-
tralia, pommy is not recorded by
Stephens and O’Brien (1910), who
were keen observers, although they
noted jimmy and jimmygrant.”
♦ * * *
Some particulars about the Sydney
Observatory ?
Sydney Observatory, established in
the year 1856, is a State institution.
The work of the observatory is
astronomical, and the instruments are
a 6in. meridian circle, 1 Him equa-
torial refractor and a l3in. astrograph,
on which is also mounted a 10in.-
wide-angle camera. The scientific
work consists of the determination of
the position, distribution and move-
ment of stars in the region of the
sky allotted to Sydney (52deg. to
65deg. of south declination) in the
international astrographic programme
and in the observation of minor
planets, double stars, occulations of
stars by the moon, etc. Ast [on°mical
observations are made for the deter-
mination of time, and signals are
transmitted from the observatory for
use in navigation and for civil pur-
poses. Educational work consists ot
lectures on astronomy and reception
of visitors interested in the subject.
Brief Answers
E.A.: The termination of your
employment would not be regarded
as a deprivation of income in order
to qualify for a pension. The infor-
mation available indicates that both
you and your wife may be entitled
to age-pensions at a reduced rate it
your income ceases, and it is suggested
that you lodge a claim when your
employment has terminated... .C.W..
See article “The Structure and Pro-
perties of Magnetic Alloys” by Dr.
D. W. Davison in “The Australasian
Engineer” of September .8, 1952....
R.J.L.: Tom Walls played 'Peter
Doody” the jockey in “The Arca-
dians,” which opened at the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne, in May, 1910. In
that production he sang “I’ve Got a
Motter,” etc F.T.N.: The poem
“A Nicht Wi’ Burns in Yackan-
dandie” was written by Thomas E.
Spencer....T.W.D.: D. Raymond
numismatist and philatelist, 128
Bathurst-street, Sydney, will give an
expert valuation and classification ot
the coins and stamps for probate
and other purposes... .0.P.: Write
Commonwealth Returning Officer for
East Sydney, Post Office Building,
Oxford-street, Paddington (N.S.W.).
8.8.: The miniature mentioned
has no great collector’s value. It is
sold in novelty shops for a few shil-
lings H.G.D.: The article was
entitled “With Self-clipped Wings,”
and appeared in The Bulletin of
June 25, 1952... .T.A.: Cannya, a
peaceful home”; Cobbadah, “place
on a hill”; Coolamatong, water
near a hill”; Coolangatta, “a splen-
did view”; Illawong, “view of the
water”; Tarcoola, “river bend”....
C.S.: Write Gaston C. Renard, anti-
quarian bookseller, P.O. Box 5295 Bt>,
G.P.0., Melbourne H.E.: Jun
Corbett, who knocked-out John L.
Sullivan in round 21 for the American
heavyweight boxing championship at
New Orleans on September 7, 1892,
never wrote about boxing for any
Australian newspapers, although he
wrote “In Corbett’s Corner,” which
was about boxing and which was
syndicated in a number of American
dailies. The Corbett you met in
Hobart was probably W. F. Corbett,
boxing editor of the “Referee” for
many years. He never wrote for The
Bulletin, but was boxing editor
of the Sydney “Sun”... .C.H.C.:
Catherine Crowley was a young girl
convicted in Staffordshire of a minor
crime after a desultory trial and sent
to Australia in 1790. She died in 1800,
and was buried at Parramatta. She
left no descendants of her name
P.A.8.: Roland Wakelin’s art show
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries was
reviewed in The Bulletin of May
14, 1952.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
P. 8.: We took the bottle from Uncle
Charlie and steered him home....
M.F.S.: “Speed” went E.A.McR.:
Fishing poem thinly pleasing. But
did you really use the traditional bent
pin? C.L.: Best of it is the
parody; and “A Garden Is a Love-
some Thing” has been parodied so
often C.A.S.: Can’t keep out the
solenjn warning:
Peers, potentates and millionaires,
Your souls may lack priority
If polished not with grinding cares
Nor “the friction of adversity.”
C.G.: A little too painful....
P.S.: None ours... .M.E.K.: Tilh-
valli H.W.: If we can extricate
ourselves from your plot we’ll send
it back to you J-N-B.: Afraid it s
been better done C.8.H.: Forced.
A.L. A very mild storm in a
very small tea-cup.. . .C.D.: We were
merely confused by your crime story
in which the seven crooks had half-a-
dozen aliases each H.H.D.: It
goes on and on and gets nowhere.
...M.J.W.: Still baffled as to
who killed the shearers’ c00k....
F.R.McL.: Yes, it’s got a beginning,
a middle and an end, but it still
doesn’t hang together... .T.J.S.Let
us hear from you when you nave
written your 99th... .P.M.M.; Boil
it down.... A.McC.: As a first step
towards catching an editor’s eye it is
suggested that you buy a new type-
writer ribbon... .N.Y.: Sea story has
all the marks of having been written
by a landlubber W.A.: What are
you trying to write— a tourist s guide
to the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.)r
.... Bellerive: Play on:
... .T.F.C.: “And to his proposal of
marriage the answer was in the
affirmative.” We tipped that on the
first page C.R.: You have a long,
long way to g0....H.W.; Scrap the
long introduction and start again from
page five A.8.R.: Too sugary
for our taste M.L.; Not dipping
into the cash-box for “The Miser.”
E.C.S.: Hold hard, Ned! Who
told you that you could write stories'
L.8.8.: “A Cure for Insomnia”
left us yawning P.P.: “There’s
Money in the Pen.” Not yours,
Brother Pete... .C.D.C.: “If I had
my life over I would find myself a
secluded spot, away from the haunts
of man, and write the whole day
long.” We shudder at the thought.
To a few home friends
At the close of day
I rendered a song
And music did play.
On a mouthorgan I
Made the notes quiver.
To Poor Old Joe and
The swanie river.
On the accordion
Sweet Jennie Bell
And the old log
Cabin in the Dell.


CAR’S INSIDE STORY
What about the poor chap
in thehachF
You can sit comfortably behind the wheel of a car
and never know what the,chap in the back sulfers.
That’s one of the first points you notice about the
Javelin in the back seats your knees are nowhere near
your chin. Two men with lanky legs can stretch and
101 l about. And there’s a feeling of confidence in the car
—the way it helps out the driver and takes a grip of
the road.
If you’ve not been in a Javelin before, just come for a
short drive . . . effortless acceleration (0 to 50 in 15*4
secs.) 80 m.p.h. from a flat four H litre engine
cruising up in the 60’s.
The Javelin is a waste of money if you don’t care what
a car does. There’s such a lot built into it that doesn’t
really show until you have one in your hands real
family comfort economy and performance.
Best speed, electrically timed, 80 m.p.h. Acceleration
0-50 m.p.h. in 15-4 secs. (“The Motor” 1952 Road
Test), Horizontally opposed flat-four engine gives
30 m.p.g.
The H litre
JOWETT JAVELIN
one day— it has to be YOURS !
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney: Liberty
Motors fAust.J Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Redman Motors, Brisbane*
B.E.A. Distributors Ltd., Adelaide; Western Motor Co. Ptv. Ltd.
Perth; Donald Gorrlnge Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Made by Jowett Cars Limited, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire,
who make the Jowett Jupiter convertible class winner
of 9 major trials and races in 1950/51 and, of course, the
famous range of 8 h.p. Bradford commercial vehicles.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ymk
. . .BUT UK
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARKERI
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3f), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870. After Hours, BJ 1957.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Pasture Improvement
“W.W.S.”; At Shannon Vale,
on New England, the N.S.w’.
Department of Agriculture has
shown that the poor eastern
granite country can carry two
sheep per acre under pasture,
Graziers on heavier country can
run two breeding ewes per acre
on pastures, and the black
basalt alluvials will carry four
and even six sheep per acre.
Most New England grazing
land is covered with coarse
tussocky grass and shows very
little response to topdressing with
super. Good results have been
obtained at Chiswick, the
C.5.1.R.0. research-station at
Armidale, by scratching the
super, and seeds into the natural
pastures with a combine. The
clovers are well established
among the native pastures, and
tests have shown that this treat-
ment has increased the protein
content of the native grasses by
38 per cent.
Granite soils should be
ploughed in winter and sown the
following autumn. The heavier
soils, usually heavily grassed,
can be sown with grazing oats
the first year. The next year the
grass roots have rotted down and
an ideal seedbed can be obtained
by working with a scarifier or
disk harrows. Sow lewt. of
super with the seed and sow
before the summer storms cease
in Marqh. The risk of pastures
drying out in hot weather is
much less than that of the plants
being too small to stand a spell
of dry, frosty weather in April
or May.
Short-term pastures can be
sown under oats on first-class
country. The oats can be grazed
in winter and the paddocks shut
off in September, when the
newly-sown permanent pastures
can be stocked. The oats can
be harvested for grain, and
often the clovers and grasses can
then be cut for hay.
Experts at Chiswick now favor
lighter, simpler seed-mixtures
than those formerly recom-
mended. They claim that, especi-
ally in view of high seed prices,
it is uneconomic to sow together
species which compete with one
another because of similar grow-
ing periods; examples being
white and sub.-clover, phalaris
and perennial-rye.
Management is simplified by
having, for example, a paddock
of phalaris and white clover,
another of perennial-rye and
white clover, and another of
short-rotation rye-grass and red-
clover.
Sheep-grazing on sown country
will slowly build-up unimproved
land beside it. Colonel White, of
Bold Blair, claims that if 75 per
cent of a paddock can be sown
the stock will improve the
remainder.
The Weather
“Rooster”; A change of
weather may be due to any of a
dozen different origins, from sun-
spots to stratospherics, but what
makes it, so far as we are con-
cerned, is the flowing down-
surges and upsurges of air-
masses. In fact, all weather-
forecasting from day to day
boils down to air-mass analysis,
and this is of primary importance
in air-navigation.
The southern portion of our
continent is often subject to vast
influxes of Antarctic air. Over
the centre of the continent other
air-masses are conditioned from
warm to hot —and, of course,
they’re relatively dry. Since
warm dry air (high-pressure)
invariably makes towards the
centre of a cold, moisture-laden
air-mass, north to north-westerly
gales are frequent—as frequent
as polar air-masses surge to-
wards us. We know when that
cold front arrives—we can feel
it —in summer a welcome relief,
in winter a menace.
But there are all sorts of air-
masses, from tropic to polar,
from land-conditioned to ocean-
conditioned. So we get all
sorts of weather. Taken on
an annual average, the daily
Weather Bureau reports are
fairly accurate, allowing for the
fact that the information
received from weather-reports
elsewhere along the lengthy
coastline are few and far be-
tween. Occasionally a ship or a
lighthouse may radio a report,
but advance reports are usually
so scarce that often a shift in
general direction of a high- or
low-pressure system is entirely
missed, and is not detected by
the Weather Bureau until too
late for publication. Result,
an incorrect forecast for that
particular area, but a correct
one for the “approach” area.
By and large the W.B. does a
good job, considering its
handicaps.
Soil Fertility
“Hortus”: At Tenterfield
(N.S.W.) a paddock, cropped
with corn and oats for 15 years
and apparently losing its punch,
was half-planted with rye-grass
and red-clover at 81b. to the
acre, plus lewt. of super. This
was grazed by dairy-cows, while
the untreated half grew two
crops of maize and one of oats.
The whole paddock was then
planted with maize in 1950, the
temporary-pasture section scor-
ing an advantage over the other
part at the rate of five to two.
After this, prior to the winter of
1951, a crop of oats was sown
on both halves. Again the
pasture-treated area showed up
well, producing healthy oat
plants of a rich green.
The whole paddock in the 1952
autumn was sown to rye and
red-clover, plus super. At the
end of August, when ready for
grazing, the former pasture-
treated section proved to be four
times as good as the untreated
area. The paddock will now
remain as a pasture for about
two years and be grazed. Then,
with its animal liquid and solid
manure, it will be ploughed and
planted with corn and oats. It
should then be in an ideal con-
dition to become a permanent
pasture of phalaris, sub.-clover
and cocksfoot. The test shows
that it pays to rejuvenate the
soil first by means of a cheap
temporary pasture.
The Sow
“Mr.”: Victorian pig-raisers
are finding that it pays to sell
sows as backfatters while they
“ He'd better go back to ’ cello-playing .**
are still young. It was once
common practice to keep them
till they had reared six litters
or more, but now a lot of farmers
are replacing their sows after
two or three litters. This is
because backfatter sows are
worth substantially more than
young sows of bacon weight
used to replace them.
On prices ruling in Victoria
at present a big, mature, fat sow
is worth about £4O for slaughter,
whereas a sow of baconer size
ready to take her place in the
breeding-herd is worth approxi-
mately £2O.
L, A. Downey, Victorian pig-
expert, points out that it’s prac-
tically impossible to estimate
when a sow will begin to de-
teriorate as a producer. The
farmer who says of his old sow
“I will keep her as long as she
rears a good litter” really means
that he will keep her until she
rears a bad litter.
Sows vary in performance,
says Downey. Feeding and
management affect the length of
their usefulness, but as a general
rule most sows are worth more
dead than alive after they have
reared three litters. In some
cases—say, where one crop of
pigs only is required per year—it
would be profitable to sell a sow
after she had reared her first
litter. It’s well to remember,
however, that where home-bred
gilts are retained for breeding,
the boar needs to be changed
more frequently.
Bull Prices
“C.S.”: At the Sunbeams
Farms sale, Miami (Oklahoma),
an Aberdeen-Angus cow brought
35,100 dollars (£A16,087), which
was claimed as a world’s auction-
price record for females of any
breed. The same buyer, Ralph
Smith, of Chillicothe (Missouri),
attending the Angus Valley Farm
sale in the same State, paid
60,000 dollars (£A27,500) for a
bull, the highest price ever paid
for an Aberdeen-Angus bull at
a public auction.
These records, however, were
broken shortly after when at a
sale at Horaeplace, Hamilton
(Mo.), a heifer brought 38,000
dollars (£A 17,400), and a bull
brought 70,000 dollars
(£A32,750).
More Wheat Per Acre
“Springvale”: For more wheat-
production an increase in
acreage seems to be the answer,
but is it? Many growers in
Victoria are concentrating on
improving the yield per acre, but
this won’t show results until
next season. Seeding this year
was done in an unusually cold,
wet autumn, making it impos-
sible to seed paddocks either at
the right time or with risky
varieties.
Still, Victorian figures show a
better acre-yield. For the five
pre-war years Victorian produc-
tion from 2\ million acres was
34i million bushels. For the
five years to 1951 an average
acreage of 2.8 million yielded an
average of 50 million bushels.
This improved yield is due
mainly to departmental research
into methods of growing and,
more important, wheat-breeding.
No more striking example of
this can be given than the new
crossbred Insignia, bred by the
department, released to growers
in 1946, and now the second
most popular variety.
Peanut Production
“Arachis”; An important
omission from the food pro-
gramme of the Australian Agri-
cultural Council is peanuts.
Although there is at present a
seasonal uplift in butter-produc-
tion, butter shortages have been
too frequent and too recent to
forget. They will occur again,
and when they do the public has
the right to the next-best
substitute.
The butter-versus-margarine
argument is senseless when
neither is plentiful. We don’t
produce sufficient butter or
margarine to meet the demand
of a rising population. Anyhow,
overproduction of either would
be to our benefit as exports.
From the standpoint of
economic land use, peanuts, with
an oil content of 45 per cent,
and a protein content of 30 per
cent., produce about four times
the quantity of fat and twice as
much protein per acre as dairy-
cattle do in the form of milk or
butter. Further, such produc-
tion from peanuts can be
obtained with about half the
labor required for dairy pro-
duction.
Dairyfarmers, though not pro-
ducing sufficient butter, oppose
any increase in peanut-produc-
tion for margarine. In this they
have the support of Govern-
ments, which even subsidise them
for underproduction.
Over 3,000,000 acres of
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The October rains varied considerably from the original
cyclical plan owing to distortion and expansion cf the two
early rainy and finer periods and to the absence of immediate
sunspot support. This support arrived and the group reached
the central portion of the sun about October 26, and would
be at its highest activity about now. Some good rains should
therefore be recorded and should continue at intervals right
into November, with relief for the dry Winton-Kynuna (Q.)
area.


LET
ATLAS
CARRV THE
BURDEN
5!
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(. England )
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
(fives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
am
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years,
f nr f rP p lllnHtrntpd tiarnnhlp*’
■DISTRIBUTORS;'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St.. Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: B. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA; Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND : Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.'
a AIL-BRITISH
fonwou
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
&
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Lt<L
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
The FINEST
COOKERIHTHEVJOBtO
0
*
♦
Z*hr
#
;r
f
*
!, HOr WATER SERVICE
Cooking with the Aga is so clean, and cool,
and simple! In fact, the Aga will cook a
dinner for you all by itself, unwatched. Choose
the Model C. 8., and you will also have the
comfort of a splendid hot water service: ample
hot-water for all kitchen needs, and three
baths a day. Economical fuel consumption is
guaranteed and the hot water service is run
from the one small single fire. Life with Aga
is so easy!
f THE >
AGA
V COOKER
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for the AGA
COOKER and the BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO;
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES ______ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _____ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIA _____ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
SB
i
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in T.ri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
CM-
IftV
boH*
?Vi •'»
“dti-MOi.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.PO Box 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Box 758 K, BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box 588. PERTH
FROM PLEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
GIMBELS MAIL ORDER • GIMBELS MAIL ORDER
FREE Catalogue
listing over 200 items of Gimbels Guaranteed Goods, covering
Men’s, Women’s and Children’s Clothing, Toys, Household Hard-
ware, Kitchenware, Leather and Travel Goods, Fishing Gear, Clocks,
Stoves, Refrigerators, Mirrors. Woodworking Machinery, Plastic
Baths, Sinks, etc., “Gimbol” Detergent, Book Section and many
other miscellaneous items.
Write for your copy TODAY to Dept A.
for Guaranteed Goods
PTY. LTD. " ""**'*
4349 HARDWARE ST., MELBOURNE *P.O. BOX 2472* PHONE; MU3586
WE GUARANTEE TO REFUND YOUR MONEY IF NOT SATISFIED
peanuts are grown in U.S.A.
(one acre for every 50 people).
Can Australia afford to say that
no more than one acre of peanuts
for 300 people will be permitted?
For Tree Lovers
“C.S.”: A real contribution to
our knowledge of native trees,
particularly in the matter of
identification, is Native Trees
of Australia, by James Wales
Audas, F.F.Sc., F.L.S., F.R.M.S.,
F.R.S.A. (Whitcombe and
Tombs).
This handsomely-bound and
-illustrated work runs into 396
pages, with a very good index.
Audas doesn’t seem to have
missed a tree, starting with the
acacias and ending with
Zanthoxylon (yellow-wood, in-
cluding Queensland satinwood).
Colored plates and profuse
black-and-white photographs,
with pen drawings of leaves,
seed-vessels, etc., back-up the
informed and careful writing, so
that anyone could take this book,
walk into scrub or forest and
almost at once begin to know the
trees. And really knowing a
tree is an experience worth
having.
In his opening remarks the
author somewhat wistfully notes
the difference between conferred
names, such as mountain-ash,
beefwood, box, etc., and the
“more or less melodious-sound-
ing” aboriginal names—Boree,
mulga, gidgee, brigalow, wilga
and so forth. And it is from
there that, hand in hand with
Audas, one can begin a delightful
tour of the Australian bush,
though it’s a pity he chose a
garden ragged specimen to illus-
trate one of the most beautiful
trees of the plains, the kurrajong.
A Good Cow
“Deejay”: Banyule Mermaid,
a pure-bred Jersey owned by
Sir Frederick Stewart, of St.
Cloud, Narrabeen (N.S.W.), has
qualified for the full-time
section of the Agriculture
Department’s Register of Merit,
with production, over four lacta-
tion periods, of 52,3581 b. of
milk, 4.7 average test and
2,453.411 b. butterfat. Aged 65
months, she was reserve
champion at Melbourne Show in
1949 and champion in 1950. In
her last lactation period, in 365
days she produced
of milk equal to 1,055.181 b. of
commercial butter. She was
milked three times daily for
five of the 12 monthly records.
Butterfat
“Hay Ho”: Another reason
why dairyfarmers should store
fodder is that ah immediate drop
in the bytterfat content of the
milk occurs when the herd is
grazed on rich spring pasture
without a balance of dry feed.
Some cows may go down to a
milk containing as low as H per
cent, fat on such pasture. With
roughage as supplementary feed,
the butterfat content of the milk
remains normal.
Ladino Clover
“Medic”: Ladino is a giant
form of white-clover, with a leaf
double or more the size of the
ordinary variety.
Introduced from Italy into
America some years ago, ladino
is now one of the most outstand-
ing pasture-legumes in U.S.A.
Under Australian conditions
ladino has not yet shown any
improvement on local strains of
white-clover such as Vic. late-
irrigation strains, or on selected
New Zealand strains.
In U.S.A. it is common for
pastures to get top-dressings of
up to 4cwt. per acre of super.,
and it is apparently under con-
ditions of good soil-moisture and
high soil-fertility that ladino-
clover is superior to ordinary
types.
Ensiling Pastures
“Billjim”: Ensiling should
have been started by the
end of October (earlier in N.S.W.
and Queensland), so that all
material could be in by early
December. Hot weather causes
excessive heating, and will take
much of the nutriment out of the
grass.
Young, leafy growth is best
wilted before raking, and
frequent spells should be given
while the silage is being made to
avoid souring. No covering is
necessary with young material,
but the older and more stalky
material needs more consolida-
tion. When a stack is being
built by the grab-stacker, con-
solidation can be obtained only
by careful spreading of the
material and thorough tramping,
especially near the edges. Spread
a layer of earth 12in. to 18in.
deep over the stack. Consolida-
tion is more easily obtained
where a buck-rake is used, be-
cause of the action of the tractor
in passing over the material.
If no earth covering is applied
extra care should be taken over
the spreading and tramping of
the top to see that no holes will
develop and allow water to enter.
If the silage is made in a trench,
run the tractor over the pile each
day for a week so that a seal is
effected to prevent waste on the
top.
Hints for the Farm
“Big Billy”: If spring sprays
have not stopped blackspot in
apples and pears, apply a 2:2:10
Bordeaux spray during early
summer.
“Emel”: For years my
almond-tree grew well, but,
though it bloomed beautifully,
bore practically no almonds.
There wasn’t another almond
within a quarter-mile. On the
advice of an orchardist we hung
a jar containing flowering sprays
of Jordan almonds in the midst
of the tree, which now bears a
most promising crop of almonds
—bees and wind assisting the
pollination.
“Ann”: Don’t be too hasty
in digging out castor-oil bush,
thistles and kindred thick-fibred
plants from rough or eroded
ground. This is nature’s way of
reclamation. Soft grasses would
not live under the same condi-
tions, but their turn may come
later. '
“C.A.A.”: October is often
short of food for bees. If a few
frames of honey from the
previous season are not available
a sugar syrup is good. Mix one
part of sugar with one part of
water and feed when lukewarm.
“M.”: Where a large part of
the ration of farm animals con-
sists of concentrates and grain,
they should receive a calcium
supplement, especially if young
and growing. To every 1001 b.
of grain or concentrate fed to
horses, cattle, sheep and pigs,
add 31b. of a mixture —four
parts of ground limestone, chalk
or slaked lime and one part of
salt. Poultry get their lime from
shellgrit, but require lib. of salt
to every 1001 b. of mash.
“Myrrhee”: A deficiency of
zinc in citrus-trees stunts growth
and mottles the leaves, the areas
between the veins turning yellow.
To cure the trouble spray the
foliage with a mixture of lib. of
zinc sulphate and Boz. of slaked
lime in lOgal. of water.
“Baroona”: When working
with wood a dent may occur.
Place a damp cloth over the
dent and a hot iron over the
cloth. The bent wood fibres are
released by the steam.
“Konanda”: When tins used
in painting have been washed
thoroughly, dry well and place
in the sun or in an oven until
all moisture is gone: Moisture
in the paint means blisters in
the finished job.
“Silentio”: Parsnip-seed must
be fresh to germinate. Buy a
well-shaped root and plant it, in
the garden. It will grow and
seed very quickly. Collect the
seed and plant it straight away.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Closer Settlement
The test of any theory is its practice,
and Victorian practice disproves most of
the arguments against subdivision of
large holdings.
Take Ardachy. This 9000-acre pro-
perty near Hamilton, in the Western
District of Victoria, was acquired for
soldier-settlement and divided into 15
holdings. Production, still below maxi-
mum, increased by 250 per cent. More-
over, it was diversified. Where wool alone
was produced, the output now consists
of wool, fat lambs and cattle, butterfat,
pigs, cereals and eggs. Nor is the case
unique—it is typical of soldier-settlement
results in Victoria.
Good farming-land requires high fer-
tility and high rainfall. In Australia,
in proportion to its total area, good land
is scarce and, as such, should be efficiently
worked. Farmed in large areas, it is
wastefully used, which is the case in
Victoria’s Western District. In this area
many holdings are unimproved and
underproductive, partly as a result of
woolgrowing policy and partly because
incomes are large enough to satisfy
owners without the extra work and
capital that improvement involves.
As the number of acres in a holding
increases, the output per acre decreases
unless huge capital sums are invested,
many men employed and remarkably high
managerial skill applied. The coinci-
dence of those things is a rare pheno-
menon.
Some argue that production is greatly
increased by mechanisation, which de-
mands “reasonably large” properties. But
it is against unreasonably large holdings,
that closer-settlement policies should be
directed. Only half of Britain’s farm-
acreage consists of farms exceeding 150
acres, and these average 277 acres per
holding. Yet Britain’s is the most
mechanised agriculture in the world.
The area in Victoria suitable for pasture-
improvement which is still under natural
grasses is an indictment of large pro-
perties, If Australia had improved
pastures in every area possible there
would be no prospect of food-shortage.
We would enjoy a higher export-income
—and there are few problems facing us
today that a higher export-income would
not help to solve.
Small properties create a class of thrifty,
hard-working and independent farmers.
Such men have little use for the “isms”
and seldom visit the psychiatrist. They
are an asset in any nation.
Some see the acquisition of large hold-
ings as an attack on private property It
need not be so. The more private pro-
perty is accumulated in a few hands, the
more it is imperilled; conversely, the
wider its distribution, the safer it be-
comes against Socialist attack.
There are, however, two essential con-
ditions. Closer-settlement should be con-
fined to the high-rainfall, high-fertility
belts, and the N. S. Wales “Labor”
brand of bushranging should be stopped
and market price paid for all acquisitions.
—D.V.F. (Vic.).
Hang the Expense
It’s hard to swallow the Prime
Minister’s assertion that there is not much
scope for reducing Government expendi-
ture. Our political leaders have become
so used to thinking in terms of a thousand
million that wasteful expenditure, running
into mere hundreds of thousands, is
looked on as just so much chickenfeed.
One of the attractions at a “Made in
Australia” exhibition in Melbourne is a
model rocket-range, very interesting to
many small boys and some not so small,
who will gaze at it. A missile is fired
every few seconds and a magnetic crane
lifts the rocket from a trolley on to the
firing-stage.
But here’s the rub. The contrivance,
according to Press reports, is the work
of the Department of Supply, whose
technicians have been working on it for
three months. How many technicians is
not mentioned, but it would be interesting
to know what this work of truly national
importance has cost in the way of
salaries, material, etc.
Surely this sort of thing is not one of
the reasons why the cost of a small packet
of cigarettes includes ninepence for
excise. Or is it? —C. (Vic.).
Not on Fridays
The old Army notion that a soldier
could only be sick at a certain time each
day—the nine-o’clock sick parade—has
been carried on by the Repatriation
Department.
I’ve just discovered that I must not get
malaria on Fridays. My last attack
started about lunch-time on Friday and
I did not see the doctor till that night.
He said he wouldn’t make a blood-test
as the pathology department at the Repat.
did not open during the weekend. In
that time the blood would have dried. A
test would be no good on Monday be-
cause by then the atebrin treatment
would have rendered it useless.
Some months later I received a memo
from the Repat. to the effect that no
future claim for malaria treatment would
be considered unless a specimen of blood
were sent in. So I suppose I’ll have to
arrange all future attacks for earlier in
the week. — Rann (N.S.W.).
Free Medicine
“Farmicist” ; (B. 8/10/’52) revives the
old, argument of the means-test when
he is in two minds about the value of
the free-medicine scheme. The wealthy
patient might be so obviously rich and
“Find a lottery-ticket in that shirt you washed?”
the widow so obviously poor that there
would be no doubt who could afford the
medicine. But in between there are
thousands who could not be classified
so easily. The neatly-dressed clerk might
find the price of urgently-needed Chloro-
mycetin beyond him, while the man in
shirtsleeves and dungarees would not be
spending more than he had given the
publican or the s.-p. merchant during the
past fortnight.
The wealthy patient could point out,
too, that he is paying far more towards
the Welfare State than “Mrs. X.” He
could feel that he had already paid for
his bottle of medicine. We have not yet
reached the stage where one half of the
community is willing to pay for the mis-
fortunes of the other half.
It is the duty of the State to see that
no one starves while there is food
available and that no one dies
through want of medical attention. But
it is not necessary to develop the Welfare
State to see that those duties are carried
out.
Sickness is the greatest handicap to the
couple with a young family. In many
homes doctors’, chemists’ and dentists’
bills seem never-ending. The drain on
an already overtaxed bank-account re-
duces them to poverty. The worry caused
by all this creates its own, vicious circle
—one or both parents suffer in health,
and on go the expenses.
Medicine is the only game I know
where costly failures are paid for at the
same rate as the successes. Time and
time again expensive operations are pro-
nounced failures and a further op.
ordered. With complaints not requiring
operations the cost of the medicines often
exceeds the physician’s fees. One
medicine is prescribed but brings no re-
sult, so the prescription is altered
slightly. A half-bottle of the stuff, now
useless but still expensive, goes down the
sink and a new bottle is bought.
Can “Farmicist” suggest a solution to
this? Who is to decide whether the
patient can afford the medicine, the
doctor or the chemist? Or must the
patient wait until the social-services de-
partment sends an investigator out to
decide? Or must we all register as do
the old-age-pensioners, undergo a means-
test and be issued with a card showing
whether we are to go on the free-list?
Perhaps the alleged Chinese system might
be the best. Pay the doctor and the
chemist a retainer which ceases as soon
as any one of the family becomes sick
and does not recommence until the
patient is cured. — Wackford (N.S.W.).
Road Accidents
As well as “Unga’s” suggested points
system for motorists (B. l/10/’52), what
about a warning siren or whistle to
operate automatically on vehicles doing
over 40 m.p.h.? It could be made
standard equipment, to be kept in order
by obligation in the same way as lights,
brakes, etc. It is often argued against
mechanical limitation of speed that a
burst of pace may be necessary to avoid
an accident. But at least the public is
entitled to know when legal limits are
being exceeded.
An added deterrent to all breaches of
traffic-laws would be for courts to order
a distinctive sign to be put on offenders’
vehicles for a given period. A large
“D” painted on a drunken driver’s car
would publicise the offence more widely
than a fine.
A serious weakness of traffic-control
is that most prosecutions follow acci-
dents. A force of plainclothes police in
stock-model cars should patrol highways
to curb the kind of driving that causes the
accidents. The knowledge that such a
squad existed would greatly improve
road manners. — Robert Howie (W.A.).
Manus
That N. S. Wales railway equipment
lying idle (B. 8/10/’52) is a fleabite com-
pared with the Manus Island salvage-
heap.
When the Americans left, Chinese
strutted ashore, picked over the best of
the abandoned U.S. equipment and carted
it off. What they could see but couldn’t
take they destroyed. Jeeps, utes and
trucks in dumps litter the island, their
tyres gashed by Chinese because they
ran out of “contract” time. Even so,
they missed a lot.
When Australia took over, the Navy
salvaged equipment, but only what it
wanted for immediate use. The rest was
abandoned —and is still there.
In these days of world shortages, hard
currencies and import restrictions, of
conservation cries from Commonwealth
pools for scarce metals, and of develop-
ment works, it seems odd that such a
crop of valuable equipment should be
allowed to corrode and rot away to use-
lessness.—Tok (Manus).
Whose Fault Is Flinders?
The Prime Minister, speaking at Wan-
garatta (Vic.), said he was becoming a
little distrustful of speeches because three
“magnificent” speeches which he thought
he had made turned out to be worth
2000 votes each to his opponents.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.,
I have before me the Press report of
the P.M.’s speech at the Mentone Hall
on October 15. He was discussing the
unemployment figures and the possibility
that by Christmas there would be no one
on unemployment-relief. An interjector
commented that he was terrified about
landing a job.
Had the P.M. seized on the opportunity
he could have cashed in on it. All he
had to say was that if the interjector
would leave his name everything would
be done to see that he got a job, and that
his Government stood for full employ-
ment. But no ; the chance for the sting-
ing wisecrack could not be missed and
the interjector got it.
That sort of thing does not get votes.
What was the good of the P.M. saying
that he also was terrified that the inter-
jector would never get one? There is
unemployment, and it is quite likely that
the interjector had really been trying in
vain for work.
Not content with sniping at interjectors
at public meetings, the P.M. now says
that the Flinders defeat is in part due to
the Victorian Liberals. It’s only the
other day that the State Liberals were
busy blaming the Federal Liberals for
the near disaster in the Toorak blue-
ribbon electorate.
If the Liberal party is to survive, it is
high time it made up its mind who is
to blame and then tried to achieve some
sort of political unity. It could learn a
lesson from the Opposition, with whom,
if there is disunity, it is not ventilated in
public. —Ardin (Vic.).
That Mortgage of Ours
It is interesting to note the effect in-
flation has had on the liability for
interest on the public debt of Aus-
tralia. At June 30, 1939, the debt stood
at £1347 million, which involved a charge
of 6.1 per cent, for interest on the
national income.
At June 30, 1951, the debt had increased
to £3198 million (of which £2664 million
was redeemable in Australia and £534
million overseas), the interest on which
imposed a charge of only 2.9 per cent,
on the national income. So, although
the public debt has considerably more
than doubled, the charge for interest on
the national income has shown a decrease
of 3.2 per cent.
Had the huge increase in income been
solid worth, what a different story the
decrease would tell. However, the reverse
is the case, as so much of it is just wind
and little else. Those who suffer are, of
course, Australian lenders who put
pounds of reasonable purchasing-power
into the loans, and are receiving their
interest in wind.
Small wonder that long-term, fixed-
interest-bearing loans are a drag on the
market. Certain aspects of Government
finance (such as Treasury Bills) will
aggravate the windy condition, thus
raising still higher the costs which are
becoming an increasing bar to economic
production,
A substantial fall in our overseas in-
come has already occurred. Exports for
the year ended June, 1951 and 1952,
were £982 and £675 million respectively.
The possibility of the basic wage being
arbitrarily reduced has to be considered,
and that, with a drought or two, will
also chop down the national income as
expressed in figures, and hurry along the
inevitable day of reckoning.
Then, as constantly increasing interest
charges on the public debt meet a falling
national income, just watch that figure
of 2.9 per cent, start to skyrocket.— Ceg
(Vic.). _
Communications Cut
Reports on the Atlantic passenger trade
during the past year make sour reading
for Australians. The total number of
passengers carried westbound between
Europe and America was,' for the first six
months of this year, 200,000, a growth of
36,000 against the figures for the first six
months of last year. And this does not
represent the busy half of the year—the
real westbound traffic began last month.
The totals year by year have been
mounting—34o,ooo in 1949, 379,000 in
1950, 426,000 in 1951, with promise of
nearly 500,000 this year. This despite
the fact that there has been tremendous
competition through development in air-
transport capacity. In the past couple of
years or so the total passengers carried
by air has increased from 28 to 30 per
cent, of westbound movement.
Meanwhile the movement, Australia-
America across the Pacific by sea, a
delightful and scenic voyage, has almost
ceased to exist, largely because of the
Communist seamen’s, wharfies’ and metal-
workers’ unions. Moscow can surely not
Jong delay its granting of the Stalin Peace
prize to Messrs. Thornton, E. V. Elliott
and Jim Healy for their great victory..
They have almost totally destroyed Aus-
tralia’s indigenous sea-communications
across the Pacific, just as effectually as a
fleet of Russian submarines could have
done it.
But Australia takes this in its
Castle H. (Vic.).


Selections from
THOMAS WOLFE
Selected, Arranged and Introduced by Maxwell Geismar, this selection contains
episodes from Thomas Wolfe’s four great novels:
Look Homeward, Angel Of Time and the River
The Web and the Rock You Can’t Go Home Again
To these are added The Story of a Novel in its entirety, with six complete
short stories.
At all Booksellers, 16/- :: HEINEMANN
Latest Australian Publications
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
AUSTRALIAN A FACSIMILES; Second volume, containing: Bligh’s NARRATIVE OF
THE MUTINY ON BOARD H.M. SHIP BOUNTY; MINUTES OP THE PROCEED-
INGS OP THE COURT-MARTIAL; BLIGH’S ANSWER TO CERTAIN ASSER-
TIONS CONTAINED IN AN APPENDIX TO THE COURT-MARTIAL
PROCEEDINGS; and Edward Christian’s SHORT REPLY TO BLIGH’S
ANSWER.* Facsimiles of the original editions published in 1790, 1794, 1794 and
1795 respectively. 11J x B}. 231 pages. Two folding charts, 1 folding diagram.
Full Morocco binding, gold blocked, gilt top. Limited edition. Georgian House
Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. £lO/10/-.
DJANGGAWUL, by Ronald M. Berndt. An aboriginal religious cult of North East
Arnhem Land. x ss. 320 pages. 29 illustrations, 1 map. Cloth binding.
F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. 55/-.
FLYING ARTIST, by William Constable. A collection of sketches from Rome, Paris,
London, Karachi, etc. 10 x 7J. 32 pages. Sketches on every page. Paper boards.
Published by Legend Press; distributed by Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
AUSTRALIAN SEASHORES, by W. J. Dakin. For the beach lover, naturalist, shore
fisherman, student. 91 x 6|. 484 pages. 96 half tone, 4 colour illustrations. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 45/-.
RANDOM VERSE, by C. J. Dennis. A selection of Australian verse. 10 x 7.
96 pages. Decorative pages. Cloth binding. Hallcraft Publishing Co.,
Melbourne. 13/6.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN THE SOUTH PACIFIC, by B. A. Derrick, M.8.E.,
A.M.1.5.E., F.R.G.S. A survey undertaken for the South Pacific Commission.
8| x s}. 276 pages. 7 charts. 4 maps in text and endpaper map. Cloth binding.
Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 30/-.
THE ROSEBOWL, by Aubrey H. L. Gibson. The story of a journey in quest of
beauty. Illustrated by R. Malcolm Warner. 81 x SJ. 88 pages. Cloth binding.
F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. 17/6.
60 HOME PLANS, by I. Horwitz, B.Sc. (Econ.), F.S.S., F.R.Econ.S., Ped. Dip. (Lon.
Univ.), and others. - Eighth revised edition. Sixty homes photographed and
analysed. 81 x 11. 100 pages. 123 illustrations. Board cover. Associated
General Publications Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 9/6.
BEDTIME PHILOSOPHY, by Frank Hambly. Devotional. 81 x 51. 155 pages. Paper
wrapper. The Book Depot, Melbourne. 7/6.
OF US NOW LIVING, by Rex Ingameils. A saga of Australia. 81 x 51. 443 pages.
Decorative endpapers. Cloth binding. Hallcraft Publishing Co., Melbourne* 21/-.
TRUE PATRIOTS ALL, by Geoffrey C. Ingleton. A collection of broadsides from
early Australia. 11 x SJ. 288 pages. Quarter bound buckram. Angus & Robertson
Ltd., Sydney. 42/-.
THE FIRST AUSTRALIAN’S BOOKS, by Geraldine Mackenzie. With a foreword
by Professor F. J. Schonell. A series of six primers for aboriginal children and
children who want to know of aboriginal life. Illustrations by Roma Thompson
and Douglas Belcher. 4J x 7. Paper covers. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Books 1 and 2, 1/9 each; books 3,4, 5 and 6,2/- each.
PRESSMEN AND GOVERNORS OF TASMANIA, by Edmund Morris Miller.
Australian editors and writers in early Tasmania. 10 x 6J. 320 pages. Buckram
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. £3/3/-.
CHILD ARTISTS OF THE AUSTRALIAN BUSH, by Mary Durack Miller, in
association with Florence Butter. 5i x BJ. 116 pages. Cloth binding. Australasian
Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA. First Year, Part 1,
Speaking. A basic English teaching course for use in the Melanesian areas of the
Pacific. 7J x SJ. 32 pages. 26 pages of line drawings. Manilla cover. Oxford
University Press, Melbourne. lOd.
OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA. First Year, Part 2,
Reading. A basic English teaching course for use in the Melanesian areas of the
Pacific. 7i x SJ. 48 pages. 200 line drawings. Manilla cover. Oxford University
Press, Melbourne. 1/2.
OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA. First Year
Teacher’s Notes. A basic English teaching course for use in the Melanesian
areas of the Pacific. 7£ x si. 190 pages. Manilla cover. Oxford University
Press, Melbourne. 5/-.
BEHIND BAMBOO, by Rohan D. Bivett. An Inside story of the Japanese Prison
camps. 9i x 6J. 368 pages. 13 illustrations and coloured frontispiece, 2 maps.
Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
OUR SONGS, by Edna Boughley and Mary Moulton. Children’s songs with music.
7i x Bs. 53 pages. Manilla cover. Australasian Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney. 6/-.
FEDERALISM—AN AUSTRALIAN JUBILEE STUDY, edited by Geoffrey Sawer.
Proceedings of two seminars held by the Australian National University. x s£.
284 pages. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 39/6.
SCIENCE IN AUSTRALIA. Proceedings of a Jubilee seminar organised by the
Australian National University. 8i x s}. 192 pages. Cloth binding. F. W.
Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 30/-.
The Australian Book Publishers’ Association
in the bus going to Kazyin ; there was
Petyr, the lovely Dutch girl, who looked
after her compatriot, Marchand, when he
was ill in Tehran, and was shocked, on
coming to visit them in her magnificent
car, to find that they were living in a
brothel; there was the girl-“baby” dancer
in Amritsar, who made to Mr. Pinney
an improper suggestion ; and finally, and
maybe missing-out one or two, there was
Loya, the lovely Burmese daughter whose
family had gone to fight with the Com-
munist guerrillas—-together they picked
flowers and “talked in whispers and
laughed with secret laughter as the sun
went down.”
Penniless and often passportless, Pinney
travelled in Greek trains under fire,
worked in Birdie’s Bean Bar in Beirut
(Birdie being an Italian Jew whose
drunken wife slept upstairs with others),
tried to join the Syrian army at
Damascus, acted as midwife on the
Caspian seashore to a Russian woman
while her fisherman-husband and friends
looked on in discomforted awe, dined
with the Australian colonel of the Khyber
Rifles in the Khyber Pass, fought with
homosexuals who pressed their atten-
tions upon him in a horrible hotel in
Kabul, sold orcfiid-plants for Sonovitch,
a Yugoslavian juggler in Delhi who in-
jected arsenic into the plants so that
they would die:
“It makes them to bloom quickly, but .
in two, three months the plant dies....and
the customers come along wanting more.”
Led by the son of a Lungphurri head-
hunter-chief, they descended into Burma,
into the district of the Kulas whom the
Lungphurris had raided only a month
ago, taking 19 heads —it was not sur-
prising that several of the party, includ-
ing Marchand, should have been spiked
by sharp bamboo stakes set as traps for
enemies on the bush trails ; in the cir-
cumstances, it was more surprising that
the Kulas eventually received the party
kindly, and speeded them on their way
to Homalin, to the headquarters and
home of the British sub-district officer,
much worried by Communist rebellions,
and, like officials ail along the route,
worried by the passportless Pinney and
Marchand.
Homalin in Burma was the end of the
expedition. Warned by a priestly
Burmese hand-reader that Marchand
would die if they set off down-river, they
began paddling down the Chindwin in a
canoe. It foundered in. the flood-waters,
Marchand was drowned ; and Pinney is
last seen on the road back to India.
Wine in Australia
There is a terrible warning to gastro-
nomical poseurs at the very end of \Vine
in Australia: a Handbook by. Waiter
James (Georgian House): —•
There is a story about the town that a
young man, invited for some obscure reason
to a wineman’s o inner, and for a reason
yet more obscure invited to give his opinion
on one of the wines. .. .finally observed:
“Well, I should call it quite a friendly
little wine but—er—-scarcely intimate.”
Upon which a hardbaked member of the
Viticultural Society sitting alongside asked
him, “Did you really expect it to stand
up and embrace you?” Only the word he
used was not “embrace,” but something
shorter and less delicate.
This is enough to give anyone pause
who is shocked at Mr. James’s remark,
in what is really a dictionary of Austra-
lian wine, that
St. Cora is capable of being a very good
wine indeed.
But surely no such timid qualifications
are needed for St. Cora, the heavy-
limbed, the mulberry-mouthed, the soft
and bloomy; Slessor’s “country girl with
hat of straw” who
Takes kissing as a natural law.
Put it beside a smart Parisian like Nuits
St. George, and maybe there is a con-
trast: the lightness, the chic, the finesse
of the French aristocrat against what?
What did Dryden say on reading
Chaucer? “Here is God’s plenty!”
The excuse may be made for Mr.
James that he wrote this dictionary while
he was sober, and for such as read it in
the same spirit, it is “capable” of being
a very good book indeed. His disserta-
tion on “Proof,” for instance, should
settle a great many arguments which
usually start near shelves which, hold
bottles and not books of reference. Aus-
tralian beer is about 8.7 per cent, proof,
or contains about that percentage of
alcohol, while N. S. Wales claret, chablis,
burgundy, hock and sauterne hover be-
tween 20 and 23 per cent. N. S. Wales
port runs between 34 and 39 per cent.
Australian spirits are around 65 per cent,;
Scotch-bottled whisky and English
gin around 70; and liqueurs vary; the
best green chartreuse is 95 ; benedictine
and kiimmel 74; while “crbme de cacao
and similar confections” are no more than
53 per cent.
Red wines for the Red Page! Such
as care how Australian champagne is
made may read about it here in abun-
dance ; such as think it matters whether
one sherry is different from another may
go into the matter alphabetically ; but
the old grievance returns —on red wines
Mr. James does not express us or inform
us. Where went the fine Yalumba and
the soft Tahbilk when our old local pub
was taken over by a combine and the
policy changed? What happened to
Private Bin claret, maybe the finest Aus-
tralian claret we ever had? Why can’t
we get another bottle of it at any of the
maker’s innumerable wine-shops? Did
the New Australians buy it up? Must we
change our immigration-policy?
There is discussion of Belloc’s conten-
tion that one drop of water in the glass
at beginning makes all the difference ; and
at the end of the book, in the maps of all
the famous wine-growing districts of Aus-
tralia, one notices how many vineyards
are situated near rivers , . . Anyway,
it’s a friendly, a knowledgeable little
book, though “scarcely intimate.”
SWILLIAM.
Reviewed Briefly
Campbell’s Kingdom : Hammond Innes
(Collins). The Canadian Rockies are the
setting for this popular yarn of adventure,
intrigue and romance. It could be
objected that the tale depends somewhat
too much upon coincidence and improb-
ability, but it moves quickly and Mr.
Innes has apparently been to consider-
able pains to present factual details of
oil-prospecting and dam-building accu-
rately, so that the book has considerable
interest over and above its plot.
* * * *
An “Orkney edition” of Eric Link-
later’s novels is being published by Cape.
Two volumes to hand, in a handsome
dustjacket covering the firm’s usual plea-
sant format, the The Men of Ness and
White-Maa’s Saga.
* * ♦ *
The Echoing Green : John Arlott
(Longmans). John Arlott brings a poetic
grace and beauty to his essays on many
aspects of cricket, some away from the
usual run: the beginnings of cricket,
cricket in painting and portraiture, quaint
mechanical devices for batting- and bowl-
ing-practice, a case for teaching cricket
in schools. There are also pen-sketches
of a score of present-day players, mainly
Englishmen.
* * * *
Report on Southern Africa: Basil
Davidson (Cape), An up-to-the-minute
survey of the present explosive situation
by an author who, after a distinguished
war career (M.C. and Lt.-Coi.), was a
leader-writer for the “Times” and now
writes for the “New Statesman.” The
average wage of the African miner is £5
a month; in Southern Rhodesia as in
South Africa “the real anxiety of white
settlers is to avoid anything which may
threaten the basis of white supremacy”;
but white supremacy is seriously threat-
ened by the industrialised natives, and,
“either the industries will fail, or the
workers will assert their rights. The
struggle for assertion may be cruel and
bloody.” The author has some hopes ot
a peaceful industrial and national de-
velopment, but “an African civilisation
will come in any case, sooner or later,
at more or less cost to whites and noh-
whites alike.”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 198
Across.
I—Spoil the moustache and the
genuine relative of marble. (9)
s—Celestial5 —Celestial address and the genial
feature with a matter for crocks.
o (5 >
B—Rumpus in tea. (6)
10—Run the scissors over 100 and
hack off the sound of trotting
hooves. (4-4)
13— Hove in sight once more to har-
vest a vegetable leftist. (10)
14— Notice the absence of a girl. (4)
17— Lucasta and Christie are in the
money. (5)
18— Cry of disapproval when the
scandalmonger telephones. (7)
20— Taste mutton with brown weight
in a puzzle popular in 5 across.
(7)
21— Branch ring in oblivion. (5)
23 Direction of travel of the volume
I am getting as a present. (4)
24 French capital in the ancient
world and 101 ask if I enrage
the mongrel and see one colora-
tura. (5, 5)
27 —Both parents approach the fifties
on the way through London. (4-4)
29 —French capital as 24 across
might name it for father to equip
one. (6)
30— Polish city. (5)
31 — European born between mid-
March and mid-April has been
executed. (9)
Down.
1 — Mum and I with an inclination
of one who has no taste for
spirits. (11)
2 Tire chorus don’t do it! (7)
3 Manage a station in N.Z. (3)
4 Compasses may describe _ it. (3)
5 Hope is good in this attire. (4)
6 Malignance of Bilious Billy. (3-4)
7 Peak of the party. (3)
9 —Unfairly cashing in on another’s
good nature which is most im-
pressive. (8)
11 — Washington achievements did not
include this U.N. boss. (3)
12 — Oriental seaman with the French
cicatrice. (6)
15 — Hypothesis is to have a late meal
on the job. (11)
16 — State call-up recorded before 1
go to a holiday resort near
Sydney. (8)
19 — Place of worship at the head’s
side. (6)
20 — Mexican delicacies, thanks to
men and their kind. (7)
22 —Spoil, but can I mention the
composer of “Plaisir d’Amour”
may be drunk. (7)
25 — Tout across the Channel. (3)
26 — Portent to apostrophise coves. (4)
27 — Report the old man. (3)
28— Costello. (3)
29 — Hamlet is a little one. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 197


TO BREED
WATER AND WORK-ROWER DEVELOPING AUSTRALIA’S
Aerial view of 23
million-gallon dam
under construction
on Hastings
Oeering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area,
with windmill bore,
300,000 - gallon
turkey-nest tank,
house site, cattle
troughs, etc. Note
the size of the
trees.
"Caterpillar"
Tractor with
Bulldozer and
Scraper, digging
out a 23 million*
gallon dam,
Hastings Deering
Northern Research
Reserves. An
actual insight into
the magnitude of
Close -up of big
earth - moving
machines and
"Caterpillar"
Tractors engaged
on dam construc-
tion, Hastings
Deering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area.
Water conserva-
tion and irrigation
will turn now
barren areas into
a beef-producing
country.
m
® DARWIN
'
■i
Hi
/ _.'rs
;
■M
m
mm
tM
■
■
■
mm
mm
m
wm
■
Ji
m
m
m
13
BBlpir*..
■
wmmmm
mm
:
■
m
m
§
1
m
Wmml
i®
ssssa
v'< - A
m
Xus
® ALICE SPRINGS
HD
'■/ !•>:• y ®
FOOD
POTCHTUL
"Beef from our North" has
always appealed to Mr. H.
Hastings Peering as an urgent
national necessity, for the
twin-objects of feeding our
growing population and
supplying our defence forces.
Beef Is a vital food and a vital
munition. "Breed Beef!" has
• , ‘
long been Mr. Deerlng's
dictum.
Photos at left show activities
on the Hastings Peering
Northern Research Reserves
in the Alice Springs area,
which cover more than 2,600
square miles of territory.
On this property dams are
being sunk, roads are being
built, pasture protection and
fodder conservation are being
developed, and other activi-
ties are being promoted under
expert control. The ultimate
objective is to greatly
increase Australia's beef
production by introducing the
best beef cattle on well-
watered pasture areas.
Already notable progress has
been made and forward work
is being continuously pushed
ahead on well-organised plans.
"BEEF ROADS" • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS DEEDING
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS PEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED. Alice Springs and Darwin, N.T.
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs. Northern Territory.
„ „ „ Lae, New Guinea.
„ „ „ „ Head Office: William Street, Sydney. M 0412 (33 lines).
