

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
THE BEST PORT WINE IN THE WORLD AT THE P R I C E I
A PRODUCT OF THE
t
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SYDNEY MELBOURNE
B. SEPPELT
FREMANTLE
&
LTD.
HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C4
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3786
Wednesday, September 3, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
PARISH CHURCH OF BRITAIN’S SECOND CITY FOR 700 YEARS, GLASGOW CATHEDRAL
ON the banks of the River Clyde in Scotland Stands the busy seaport and
industrial centre of Glasgow, which, with the exceptiop of London, is
the greatest city in Britain. Within its boundaries live more than a million
people, a quarter of the entire population of Scotland, and their skill and
initiative have created industries which are world-famous. Chief of these are
the shipbuilding yards at Clydebank, birthplace of such famed Atlantic liners
as Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth —but hardly less important are her
textile, chemical and engineeering works.
Although a metropolis with its feet firmly planted in the present and
its eyes turned to the future Glasgow is, nevertheless, a city of great antiquity.
Its cathedral dates from the thirteenth century and its university from 1450.
Before that, however, the city had its early beginnings in the sixth century
when it grew up around the church founded by St. Kentigern, patron saint of
Glasgow and usually called St. Mungo. This original church was established
on the site now occupied by the Cathedral, and was visited, it is believed,
by St. Patrick and St. Columba.
The present Cathedral was begun about the year 1193 and completed
in 1480. It is regarded as the most perfect example of Pre-Reformation
Gothic architecture in Scotland. The outstanding feature of the interior
is the twelfth-century crypt, where the vaulting is of an unrivalled richness
and which contains the tomb of St. Mungo and also of Bishop Wishart, who
crowned Robert the Bruce. In 1578, at the time of the Reformation, Glasgow
Cathedral was only saved from destruction by the energetic action of the
trade guilds of the city. While attending a service in the Cathedral in 1650
which lasted for two hours, Oliver Cromwell heard himself denounced as a
blasphemer. His only revenge was to invite the preacher to dinner and
inflict upon him a prayer lasting no less than three hours. In the churchyard
is buried William Miller (1810-1872), famous author of “Wee Willie Winkie."


COSOS
rcmHSmai
at HOME
Write now for Free illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
I COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL'
To STOTT’S; Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.352)
Age,
Relax and Read the Humorous Book of the Year
THE PLEASURE WAS ALL MINE
by FRED SCHWED
Includes chapter on “Women” reprinted in Reader’s Digest.
Escape from .the worries of your dally round with this chuckle-provoking book. It
Will keep you happily entertained from the first page until the last.
Over .50 cartoons by America’s leading cartoonist, Walt Kelly.
Men and Women Will Definitely * Like it.
Price 15/-. Post 7d.
Available at All Booksellers or
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. Phone 8L3611.
The Red Page
HANS HEYSEN.
One of the most interesting of the
charcoal-and-wash drawings in Hans
Heysen’s Watercolors and Drawings
(Legend Press) is the “Study for ‘Bald
Hills of Rapid Bay.’ ” If one looked at
this drawing away from the book, not
knbwing who made it, the first name
that would spring to the mind would not
be Hans Heysen but Lloyd Rees: for
here in the cold light of black-and-white
are the sprawling and rhythmical hills,
the massive arid rather desolate power,
the impression of the earth as some pre-
historic monster frozen to stone by the
gorgon-stare of time which, from his
early essays in morning-light to his dark
declarations of recent years, have been
the characteristics of Lloyd Rees’s
strength.
It is not to be supposed that Heysen
has been influenced by Lloyd Rees, nor
Lloyd Rees by Heysen: only that both
are very fine draughtsmen in black-and-
white, Lloyd Rees usually in pencil,
Heysen in charcoal. But the odd thing
about this Heysen charcoal-drawing is
that it reminds one of a Lloyd Rees oil;
not the preliminary sketch but the
finished painting.
As an oil-painter Lloyd Rees is still,
it appears, thinking in terms of black-
and-white ; and if you turn then to the
finished Heysen painting of “Bald Hills
of Rapid Bay,” also reproduced in this
fine volume, you find a robust and
colorful watercolor, rich with red earth
and alive with sunlight, that is not in
the least like a Lloyd Rees. If it is like
the work of any other Australian painter
it could be compared with John Elder-
shaw, the best of whose watercolors, if
they do not derive from Heysen, at any
rate share with him a warmth of Aus-
tralian feeling, fidelity of observation
and a pleasant masculine strength.
Watercolors and Drawings is intended,
chiefly, to demonstrate Heysen’s strength
and fidelity as a craftsman, the remark-
able care with which he carries out his
preliminary black-and-white study before
transferring it to the medium of water-
color, so that his black-and-whites, like
those of Norman Lindsay, who follows
the same workmanlike procedure, are
complete in themselves as works of art.
But the book not only shows how ad-
mirable the black-and-whites are, but
also what solid qualities of drawing and
composition as well as feeling for nature
underlie the final watercolor: a point
we may tend to overlook when we sur-
render to the charm of color and the
warmth of the total effect. This water-
color of “Bald Hills of Rapid Bay” has
all the substantial qualities you can find
in a good Lloyd Rees; and beyond that
the whole heat and color of Australian
summer.
From a different angle, for one would
never question Lloyd Rees’s depth of
observation, the present reviewer found
another revealing comparison iri relating
Heysen’s drawings of the Flinders Range
to the oil-paintings of Russell Drysdale,
probably the best of the modern painters
who have followed the trail into the far
outback blazed by Heysen and Arthur
Murch. Drysdale has, of course, painted
some excellent impressions of the desert
and the remote townships, notably his
“Anthills” marching weirdly to the dist-
ance and his “Dancing Children” flower-
ing so charmingly with joy in the desert’s
barren hot gold; but more recently, par-
ticularly in two pictures exhibited at
David Jones’s and the Macquarie Gal-
leries in Sydney, he seems to be losing
his respect for rock, balancing sinister
shape against sinister shape which might
both have been modelled in the studio
from colored plasticine. Possibly real-
ism is not Drysdale’s aim ; yet rock is a
noble substance, and an art which deals
in terms of realism will never be finally
satisfactory if it offers a weakened
version of reality.
Heysen’s drawings of rocks in this
volume are nothing less than magnifi-
cent: as drawings—works of art —and
as rocks. They are the rockiest rocks
this reviewer, so far as he can recall, has
ever encountered in art. In fact, they
look harder, sharper, deeper, more pro-
foundly rocky than even in Heysen’s own
oils and watercolors: the severity of
black-and-white suits the hardness of
their substance and their shape.
For romantic charm in this book no
doubt one would choose, among the
black-and-whites, “Ambleside Pastoral,”
with its intricate drawings of foliage, the
massiveness of ats trees against the
spacious immensity of the sky, the rich
darkness of the charcoal-watef ; or per-
haps “Study for ‘Heat, Sheep and
Gums,”’ brimming with Australian
nature-poetry ; or the superb “Study for
‘Approaching Storm,’ ” where even the
dead ring-barked gum is caught up with
the sheep, the horsemen, the whirling sky
and the living wind-beaten trees in the
flight from the coming tempest: yet for
pure magnificence of drawing, every fold
and facet of the rocky crags shown in
marvellous fidelity, glittering with light
like a gigantic diamond, deep and hard
as the earth itself, the softening ghost-
gums and the sweep of the range bathed
in a whitish luminosity, one lingers long
over “The Sentinel, Bra China Gorge”—
possibly the masterpiece of the whole
book; certainly a masterpiece.
Of course the danger of this approach
to watercolor, so impressively crafts-
manlike in contrast to the common hit-
or-miss method where the artist makes a
brief sketch on the sheet of watercolor-
paper he is going to paint on, then dashes
ahead hoping for the best, is that the
freedom and freshness of the hit-or-miss
tactics may be lost. Perhaps only a
master craftsman can hope to do the
complete, separate drawing as Heysen
does and still retain in the finished water-
color the full vividness of the first
approach to the subject.
But, then/ Heysen, like Norman
Lindsay, is a master craftsman ; and you
have only to look at the color-plates in
this volume, particularly the N. S. Wales
National Gallery’s “Autumn Pastoral”
of willows and cattle and rolling lavish
landscape suffused with heat and light—
to see that nothing is lost in the transfer-
ence ; but color and light and texture,
the final fidelity to the earth, are gained.
In fact, impressive as he is in black-and-
white, Heysen will always be still more
impressive in color. One would like to
see a larger, more varied selection of
color-plates in the present volume; or,
if that is not really a reasonable request
in a book primarily devoted to the
drawings, more color-plates which relate
directly to the black-and-whites. We
must, in any case, have the full range of
Heysen’s watercolors in a new, complete
color-book, which is long overdue.
As an art-book Watercolors and Draw-
ings is a very fine production indeed ;
quite up to the high standard we have
had from other special-presses, in recent
years., It is unusually wide in shape,
like a much-enlarged version of the
attractive little book Legend Press made
of Frank McNamara’s watercolors—a
format particularly suitable for land-
scape.
There are, three color-plates and 23
black-and-whites. Letterpress is by
Lionel Lindsay, who in a brief foreword
says that “nothing finer than Heysen’s
drawings could be assembled from the
landscape-drawings of this century”—
“Where most men would be daunted by
the intricacies of a gum-tree and the geo-
logical structure of our desert mountains,
Heysen never hesitates. Whatever he
draws becomes a design stamped with
the intrinsic character of Australia”;
and by James S. MacDonald, who, pay-
ing even higher tribute to the great South
Australian artist, contributes a most
knowledgeable and informative essay on
the history of drawing.
A Scientist .
The pleasure of reading a book like
The Autobiography of Robert A. Millikan
(Macdonald) is the pleasure of moving in
an atmosphere of scientific thinking where
the air is “thoroughly small and dry.”
Although his description of his “oil-
drop” experiment, which measured the
electron in 1909, and of his “experimental
proof of the existence of the Photon—
Einstein’s photoelectric equation” of
1912-14, leave one completely unedified,
ohe realises that in some strange way
these helped towards splitting the atom :
the curious words and mysterious sym-
bols pass over one’s head* but the feeling
remains of this mind working insatiably
on problem after problem, its only worry
being that life does not afford sufficient
time to solve them all. .
Not long after World War 1 Millikan
was persuaded to leave Chicago and
join the new Californian Institute of
Technology; he was in on the negotia-
tions which procured a 6,000,000-dollar
guarantee for Dr. Hale’s huge (200 in.)
Mount Wilson telescope ; they got another
millionaire (Robinson) to leave his whole
fortune to meet the 100, 000-dollars-yearly
operating cost of the telescope—alas, Mr.
Robinson lost heavily in the depression
“and his estate was not what we expected
it to be,” but “Caltech rode through the
storms that followed.” Another million-
aire (Fleming) added to these storms by
allowing his endowment fortune of
4,200,000 dollars to shrink to only 250,000
dollars.
But Americans love scientists. Robin-
son and Chandler gave stag dinners and,
the bait being the advancement of the
name of Southern California, soon
secured a hundred men who would each
pay a thousand dollars a year towards
the current work of the institute ; and the
results of these huge backings seem to
have been worth white. Harry Guggen-
heim, administering Daniel Guggenheim’s
bequest of 2,000,000 dollars “to make
America air-minded,” established the
Guggenheim Laboratory at the California
Institute, which put 35 miles an hour of
increased speed on to the D.C.3 without
increase in power, and gave California
half the aeroplane-manufacturing business
of all America; the Kerckhoff Labora-
tories brought the Institute three Nobel
Prizes for Medicine; “Caltech” was also
responsible for the world’s first million-
volt X-ray tube ; water-pumps raised to
91 per cent, efficiency-—a world’s record ;
and jet-propulsion, both of aircraft and
weapons—“more than 90 per cent, of all
rockets used by the U.S, armed forces
were C.I.T. rockets”:
We built more than a million of them
on our, campus, extended for the purposes
of the war so as to include the three
canyons... .just north of Pasadena, San
Gabriel Canyon, Eaton Canyon and the
Arroyo Seco Canyon There the Institute
at the peak had 4700 workers on its pay-
roll....
Dr. Millikan won the Nobel Peace
Prize in Physics in 1923 ; he believes in
peace-through-preparedness ; he is a great
admirer of Churchill and of the British,
who, he says, have done more than any-
one to extend peace and freedom through-
out the world; and, in the religious
sphere, he believes in a supervising
Intelligence, quoting Einstein and also
printing in an appendix a “Joint State-
ment on the Relations of Science and
Religion,” to which various scientists,
religious leaders and men of affairs have
put their names.
CHANTICLEER.
Chanticleer makes canticles
To rumor in the night;
And from his spurs, along his wings
Runs the metal of his praise—
Though silver and the sheen are one.
The russet and the rust are met
In the dark thickets under dawn
Where His prophetic voice is set.
The dreaxner in his narrow dream
Hears, far-off, his treason told,
That took him to the edge of death
Which tempted him with ceaseless sleep.
And shielded him, as once the womb.
Chanticleer cries his alarm
Which, thrice-repeated, is a hymn;
The struggle and the sun foretold,
And that, from each impassive dream,
Repentantly the sleepers come.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.
Reviewed Briefly.
Europa and the Bull and Other Poems:
W. R. Rodgers (Seeker and Warburg). In
a sense this is exciting poetry. W. R.
Rodgers is a competent and vital writer
who, on the evidence of this book, is
balancing on a very delicate tightrope. On
the one hand there are verses in which
he controls his extraordinarily rich tech-
nical gift and produces economical lyrics
such as “Lent” (which is pagan rather
than Christian in its approach to myth);
or, from an Easter sequence, “And they
crucified him.” Then on the other hand
is his title-poem, “Europa and the Bull,”
an exuberant piece of pretentiousness.
frequently lapsing into jarring errors of
taste. Rodgers appears to be a natural
master of rhyme and assonance, and dis-
plays an unusual facility for word-play—
‘he, bushed in stealth, tiptoadyihg
gently.” His images are original and
prodigal: of a train he notes that “The
was a screech stuck, in her hair like
feather.” Most often his approach
Christian or quasi-religiotis, but here on
feels none of the flat dispiriledness of
much recent English verse.
* * * *
Mixed Company : Irwin Shaw (Cape
This is a fine large collection of th
short stories of the author of The Youn
Lions, taken from previous books, witi
seven new to covers. Lemon-and-no
sugar is an ingredient of most of them
a young New York wife in despair be
cause her husband has a roving eye; th
decay of a football hero who marrie
money; a 24-year-old radio-playwrigh
bleeding his brain to keep his family i
luxury ; a wife’s weary assessment of he
ineffectually-posturing husband during
game of tennis; the degradation of
Jewess in Jerusalem, and of a Nazi i
post-war Germany—but there is a sadly
amusing Indian in a park at midnigh
and an honest tear or so in an accoun:
of an operation for appendicitis at sea b
a First Officer who has had only an hou
to learn about it from a tattered medica
text-book, Mr. Shaw brings nothing new
to short-story writing; but he spreads
wide net, and treats his catch with
dexterity and discernment. He loves to
catch his women at the point at which
they have found out their husbands bu
have resolved to go bn living—the
moment, one suspects, they* love mos ,
themselves.
* Sit * * '
The Conductor’s Art: Warwick Braith
waite (Williams and Norgate). Gramo
phone-conductors, of whom there mus
be more than fleet the eye, may find
encouragement, or discouragement, in thi
expert handbook. It is discouraging, foi
instance, to realise that a great deal of
music, some quire familiar, is written in
measures which change suddenly from
say, three crotchets in a bar to seven
demisemiquavers in a bar. It is en-
couraging in that here an expert con-
ductor analyses all the arm-movements
not only for right hand time-beating, but
for left-hand orchestral control. For
such as conduct real orchestras the book
should be even more valuable: there
are chapters on conducting concertos,
oratorios, etc., and on the production of
opera, on the duties of leaders, chorus-
masters and librarians, on rehearsals,
scene-settings, orchestral-placements, and,
in fact, on the whole organisation and
administration of opera—all done with
instances and examples by a young
English conductor who speaks always
from his own experience.
* » * *
No Time to Be Young: Mervyn Jones
(Cape). A first novel. Mr. Jones per-
forms the difficult feat of writing in the
first-person as a young girl from birth to
early twenties. She is brought up in the
family of a French politician, and the
climax comes when, her titled French
grandmother having opened the ancestral
halls in the south of France as a hospital
for escaping loyalists of the Spanish Civil
War, the girl becomes the love of one
of the wounded' prisoners. The detail of
French life between wars is charming.
There is a strike of grape-pickers not so
charming.
* * ♦ *
Telling of Murder: Douglas Ruther-
ford (Faber). The young detective is
engaged to protect the life of the director
of an English shipping-line who is
journeying to Trieste by car; in London
and in Paris subtle and energetic efforts
are made to kill the director; and finally
the assassins are successful on the Cor-
niche; then it remains for the young
detective and the director’s beautiful
secretary to unmask the gang and the
leader who have made a business of
smuggling, and especially of smuggling
diplomats and persons who have infor-
mation, across the border into the hands
of a Power which does not wish them
well. It is one of the best of the type
of thrillers which go to some trouble to
get their settings right.


Reading from right to left:
White Madras Centre with Green/Red, Sreen/White,
Green/Sold. All round frill, matching colour in a multi-check
voile. 3ft. 6in., 35/-; 4ft. 6in., 39/6; sft., 43/6; 6ft., 47/6.
Curtains of White Madras Centre and two centre rows
multi-check frilling. 3ft. 6in„ 37/6; 4ft. 6in., 42/-; sft., 47/6;
6ft., 52/6.
Multi-check Voile and White Madras. Frilling. 3ft. 6in., 37/6;
4ft. 6in.. 42/-; sft., 47/6; 6ft., 52/6.
w
4' 6"—39/6
4' 6" — 42/-
For Framing
your windows, of course you’ll want
The Very Latest in WINDOW CURTAINS
Designers and housewives in America have long known how window curtains can alter the
personality of a room, enhance a view through a window. They value good-
looking curtains that will let the light into a room yet give complete
privacy. Frankly, we thought so much of these designs we copied
them ! The colours, too. For colour matched properly is one of
the most important things in a curtain , . matched so that it
won't fade after a week! So why not inspect our wonderful range?
There's a curtain here for every window in your home!
S
y. :
/ ' '•’ 7
(/
ML 1
r 1
iiiil
//
I v*?'' r."?-V '**'BBgß■ ■»■< /
i—■ ifH./
ŵ
'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ẁ
FURNISHING DEPT., 3RD FLOOR. BOX 2712 C
SHOWER AND WINDOW CURTAINS THAT MATCH
Glamottrto -your bathroom! Hygienic plastic Shower and Crossover window
curtains in many colours and designs. They stay clean. No
washing is necessary. You simply rub them down and they're cleaned!
X'Overs, 3' 6", 35/-; 4' 6". 37/6; 6', 47/6. Shower curtains, 6' x 3', 16/3;
6' x 6', 32/6. Ruffles in plain, spotted or patterned plastic, with
toning ric rac trim. Rodless, these stretch to 5 yards. 32/6.
G.p.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE; M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA


m
1
■Wt^vsw'J
IliilililS
***s*<><■
i
m
mm
mm
m
0 «>fr
*»*
**x a***3 ZiX iX v^y>>'</
* ❖ * I <o* ? .%£> v^&£
v« ■> <• ** ***• j>*
*■>•>• •%v<V£.>-
<y.;^v'
•y
*❖< ❖*❖*.s ***
•;.x*xx<
*■*•>❖<
:■*<
Worsted Suitings
£|ppii
V t s '
S\ ■
t ‘V#*
m
i *£&s
s*«
vvy\
*£2 ; »
xk.^x
rV> *
ZM
> ■■■:".% :■
pf r JP§M
wmam
ft«*K9r«
~y«
***
pi
SWISS'
m
S.
m
Mm#
m
i;iyui<A
nmm
'm
mm*
¥: : : ;^^': -':^^'v;
siiiit
&X ; X;
&
Pww<
»
<m
m
rPp' -
mm
s^s^psamx
:•£*»>• •>s£*s' x.
IP
il
-.->•:
XJXy.:
pk
£££
'WtfWvhvXiw
m
'^Sws:?
ni
s»ii
M
<-M‘
*>. *<■;
*
«<*
in
f€ #M£ £»
*
w « ! 35SSSM'^*sP^- V*'4
mm
S*r^SSmiS»\v!>j
m
'W
K»Mm
*
*Vv<
i
MS:
mm
m&mm
m
mm
s&s&' 4< ;
ww®
if*©»sSS' r 1 j
*S^:»E3s£*'-
g^s£JW«s^S»
1
■
m
mm
i m
m
i
\t/r
m
m
mm
&Mow > : >' •
Pm/
v .•/.;;
mm
ti'f:
■m
P%P$
wmrn^mmmmtmmm
'■'■ fi f// i/?/■>/■*■<*s■? ?ilifA
m
m
tm
/
mm
7/P
mm
mmm
m
Wm
7/AM/
i/m/fM
mm
m
Zimw/mwi
m
m
m
m
m
**
m
m
m
$m
m
m
mm
mm
m
- k
•i. //
m
mm
?phf( hf/' '/ r < > mmm/i/m mm? nms\
v /<<■:■*.; '•V ; ■<:/*■>*■ /./Mf r /r { ■ ;■ ;-^
■ ■ " ' ' '■
' ' *- i< f ' " . !,>■■ ' '+,<"> *' \
//
tJx
v <■ •
mm
YARRA
FALLS
LTD.
ABBOTSFORD,
N. 9,
VICTORIA


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No, 3786
Wednesday, September 3, 1952
NATIONAL
Enterprise
\NK
DON BUREAUCRAT AND SANCHO STAMPA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior . P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
GP.O.), Wellington.
MORE FOR THE MONEY.
The speech of Mr. Menzies at Launces-
ton, in which he said that if Australians
wanted to spend less than £2OO million
on defence in 1952-53 they could get
someone else to do it, is a reminder that
there are important and urgent matters
confronting this country that the average
person doesn’t like to think about. And
the Press generally doesn’t encourage
them to think about them.
Nobody in particular seems to have
asked Mr. Menzies to spend less than
£2OO million on defence in the coming
year ; indeed, some vested interests, trade-
union and otherwise, are eager for him
to spend more. There are, however,
people who think that his Government
could do more for the money.
There are, also, others who would
emphatically disagree with him —looking
at the vast inflation of the civil service and
the raising of salaries beyond all reason-
able limits—that “95 per cent, of the
Budget items are immovable.” On a huge
scale the taxpayers are not only allowing
Governments to spend their money for
them on things which they themselves
ought to be providing through thrift, but
actually paying armies of civil servants to
do the spending on a scale unknown to
history before “Labor” gave birth to the
boom-time Socialism which Liberal-C.P.
Governments seem to have adopted.
In plain fact the defence Budget
accounts for approximately a quarter of
the whole of the Federal expenditure. In
these days it needs a lieutenant-colonel
and staff very often to do what a.
subaltern used to do, and warrant-officers
literally are on a scale of pay roughly
equal to that of some brigadiers even at
the end of World War 11. Also, it appears
to be necessary to have three people to
do what one did in the “bad old days” of
a dozen years ago.
No doubt these conditions have got to
be faced, but so should the facts. Nobody
gives any consideration to the effect of
an immediate war on the economy of the
country, or, rather, to the effect of the
present scale of wholesale squander in
public affairs, State and Federal, in de-
pleting the resources and savings which
we may need desperately to see us
through an attack if it comes.
It must be remembered that if we are
called on to fight it will not be against
countries whose Ministem, like ours, have
to be prepared to assure their constituents
that our troops in training have lace-
curtains on their windows, rugs on their
floors and beer and poultry in the front-
line. They will be pitted, as they are in
Korea, against large hordes of hardy
Asiatics who are trained to live, fight and
dig like moles on a handful of rice and a
mouthful of water a day; who do not
need motor-cars because they still have
stout legs, and with whom victory rather
than comfort, and success rather than
convenient equipment, will be the main
issues. They will be propelled against us
by juntas which have no concern in war-
time with what the voters think.
If they feel it necessary in order to
win to devote threequarters of their
Budget to war, it will be devoted to it.
And if the national resources won’t stand
any pay for their soldiery they won’t get
any pay. In fact, it is doubtful whether
in peace-time the Russian soldier gets
much pay even now.
A little sober reflection on these matters
by Treasurers, Loan Councils and the
public bodies which are at present rush-
ing round gaily raising fresh loans for
public works might be healthy, in the
light of the fact that the enemy abroad is
swelling his efforts in Europe and Asia
in a most sinister and menacing way. In
fact, the atmosphere is very much like
that of early 1939 as far as Russia is
concerned.
For the first time since March, 1939,
the Communist party of Russia is holding
a conference; and the Russian Com-
munist party does not meet to make de-
cisions. It meets to be told of decisions
which have been taken and which involve
the application of stern discipline to the
nation right down to its roots, as in case
of war Or famine. It certainly does not
meet (as the daily Press suggests) to be
consulted about a decision to have
another five-year plan or to merge the
Orgbureau with the Politbureau, which
would be like merging a Ministry with a
Government.
If it meets to elect a new leader for the
Soviet Union, then it is a very strange
and clumsy demonstration to the world of
“democratic centralism,” since the Soviet
Union has ostensibly two Houses of Par-
liament and a Presidium, and the Com-
munist party is only a very small fraction
of the whole population, which at present
is supposed to have votes.
The 1939 Russian Communist-party
Conference was followed immediately
with secret overtures for agreement with
Germany which gave Hitler the green-
light to attack Poland, and left the way
open for Russia to seize the little Baltic
States and ravish Finland. It was accom-
panied with specious overtures to the
Western Powers, with the surprise
appointment of a new Ambassador—
Litvinov that time, Gromyko this time—
who was shelved as soon as he had served
his purpose. It was also accompanied
with great military activity on the Euro-
pean borders of Russia, whereas this time
it is accompanied by combined
manoeuvres by the troops of all satellite
nations in Europe, apparently as a single
force under Red Army Command.
In 1939 the March conference was
preceded by a world-wide organisation of
peace movements” and fresh lodgments
of Communist agents. Moscow-trained, in
various countries abroad under the guise
of angels of peace—Australia got more
than its helping of them led by Comrade
Campbell, who took over control of the
Communist education system.
Furthermore, before the 1939 confer-
ence almost every Communist-infiltrated
country in the world sent delegates fur-
tively to Moscow, Australia included.
This time Comrade Sharkey, among
Chinese and other political leaders, is
already there.
It is well that Australia should be
reminded of these things. Its defence
effort is all too modest in bulk —Britain
with all her difficulties has 872,000 men
in the forces —and all too expensive in
content by comparison with the enemy’s.
The same urgency which calls for longer
hours and harder work to put Australia
on a stable economic basis calls for the
Government to see not only that its
defence vote is not reduced, but that the
country gets full value for its money.
A Double-edged Axe.
Events leading up to the precipitate
axing of the N.S.W. Government’s
wonder-child, the Transport and High-
ways Commission, were highly instructive.
If the recent behavior of that unpredict-
able monster, the basic-wage robot, was
responsible for this result, its future antics
may at least do the public the service of
exterminating some other superfluous
boards of the modem fashion.
The second-last weekend of August
was historic. On the Friday Transport
Commission Director Winsor announced,
pursuant to Ministerial orders, “a drastic
economy campaign.” First cut, dismissal
of 500 married women and about 80
over-age personnel out of a total wage-
and-salary staff in the tram and bus
services of some 14,000; also elimination
of some services. In last year’s loss of
£3,300,000 by .trams and buses this would
make a hole about the size of £500,000.
Next day announcement by “a senior
transport official” that the railway depart-
ment would shortly dismiss 1000 men
and cease work on the Eastern Suburbs
railway. In wages and materials this was
estimated to save £1,500,000, against last
year’s railway loss of £2,450,000.
The director’s name was not men-
tioned in the second of these official
statements. But Mr. Winsor had already
said a mouthful on the first day:
We will start reducing services immedi-
ately. We will continue to do so day by
day. Within a month or two drastic
changes will be evident. It is not possible
to put these changes into effect by the
stroke of a pen. Revision is necessary.
We won’t waste time about it....
At present for every fl of revenue col-
lected 19s. is taken up ip staff costs. By
the time the cost of repairing and main-
taining tracks and the cost of power are
added up, it costs 265. to earn 20s. At the
rate we are going.... we must take im-
mediate action or we will not be able to
pay wages 500 n....
There were union rumblings and
demonstrations of political agony by the
Minister for Transport on the Monday,
and on the Tuesday Premier Cahill an-
nounced to the Assembly that Minister
Sheahan had recommended the winding-
up of the commission and the appoint-
ment of Mr. Winsor as Railways Com-
missioner. That same day, to a deputation
from the transport unions, Mr. Sheahan
said that the Government would try to
avert the threatened dismissals from the
tram and bus services. This reaction of
Ministerial responsibility in the crisis
seemed to be discounted by the Premier,
also present, who added “The Transport
Department will, however, have to live
within the means available to it.”
Mr. Winsor apparently “did his job in.”
The savings to the Treasury from the
abolition of the commission (including
a drop of £5OO in Mr. Winsor’s salary) are
variously stated, but last year the N.S.W.
Auditor-General said the commission’s
expenses were £42,549, of which £ll,OOO
was for furniture and nearly £24,000 for
salaries. All eight members of the com-
mission, it was provided, should receive
travelling expenses, and for three of them
—representing employees, rural industry,
and trade and commerce —there was a fee
of five guineas a sitting as well.
During the debate in Parliament two
years ago Mr. Treatt’s announcement that
when the Opposition parties were returned
to power they would abolish the com-
mission as an unnecessary expense and
an excrescence upon the administration
was received with indignant protests from
the Government ranks as unfair to public
servants. The Government has now
anticipated the Opposition parties’ inten-
tion, without any contrition whatever. As
the member for Mosman pointed out in
that debate, this design for allowing
political and industrial interference in
transport administration was no new thing
with the Socialist party ; Mr. Lang in his
time legislated for much the same sort
of super-governing transport body under
Ministerial control, and it was duly
abolished in the cleaning-up after the
Lang Government had run the ship of
State on to the rocks.
There was the same pretence in 1950
as in 1931 that the commission would
(as the Minister in charge of the 1950
bill said) “promote and formulate plans
for securing and providing an efficient,
adequate, economical and properly integ-
rated system of public transport.” The
answer made to him from the Opposi-
tion was the same as to the Lang
scheme of 1931. In the words of Oppo-
sition-leader Stevens of that former day:
The Government’s desire lor the political
control of these activities subordinates any
sincere desire for efficient co-ordination for
the mere sake of efficiency.... This measure
will be destructive of discipline in the rail-
way and other transport services, because
every act of the management will be sub-
ject to review by the political and indus-
trial organisations that dominate this Gov-
ernment.
Lamenting in Parliament the commis-
sion’s end. Minister Sheahan spoke in one
breath of the present “tragic state of the
transport services,” and in the next he
said the commission “had done a mag-
nificent job.” Premier Cahill’s eulogy-
over the executed victim suggested that
its end was not untimely ; the Opposition
benches laughed like little Audrey when
he said “it was felt that the commission’s
work of co-ordination had been largely
accomplished.” He made no mention of
that “efficiency, adequacy and economy”
to be restored to the services which were
set out as the commission’s prime con-
cern ; in point of fact, as soon as the
commission, on his own orders, took the
axe in hand against unruly departmental
expenditures, he knocked it on the head
from above. This change of mind coin-
cided with the union protests against
Director Winsor’s implementation of his
orders
A superfluous board has gone, leaving
no particular trace behind it except the
bills for salaries and sitting-fees and
£ll,OOO-worth of office furniture. What
it would have cost if it had lasted for the
seven years which was its planned mini-
mum lease of life no taxpayer will con-
template without some meed of present
thankfulness. Its passing leaves nothing
of the problem altered; the money, as
Mr, Sheahan said, still “is not there,” and
Mr. Winsor’s apprehensions of a Black
Friday unless something is done remain.
The “tragic state of the transport ser-
vices” has no more been repaired by
anything the commission did in its two
years of existence than have electricity
blackouts through the inscrutable func-
tioning of the Electricity Commission.
In Parliament, under stress of his
emotion. Minister Sheahan said that
“if anyone believed he was personally re-
sponsible for the tragic state of the trans-
port services he was quite prepared to
resign.” The responsibility belongs to
the whole Cabinet of ex-Premier Mc-
Girr which forced through Parliament in
1947 the legislation for the 40-hour week.
No single action of this degenerate
“Labor” Government, now dragging its
ruinous reign into a second decade, has
done more to wreck the transport services.
The railways, especially, have never re-
covered from it. It was an iniquity per-
petrated on N.S.W. on the very eve ol
Mr. McGirr’s first election campaign as
Premier:
I will let nothing deter me from making
our transport system comparable with that
of any country in the world. The very
latest types of trams and buses will be
obtained for this purpose... .Noiseless
trams.... safer and speedier transport with
the highest degree of seating comfort....
speedier trains and more of them on
suburban and country lines. Obsolete
railway carriages will be displaced... .The
Government promises farmers that it will
definitely step up the construction of
trucks.... No more blackouts... .No more
industrial disputes... .Ninety thousand
homes a year
This political mountebank re-emerged
from the relative obscurity of the Mari-
time Services Board as a member
of the Transport Commission because
harbor ferries came into the amalgama-
tion. The present Premier was not
deterred by Mr. McGirr’s membership
of the commission from declaring that it
had completed in two years a job which
it was presumed would occupy it for at
least seven and an indefinite term
beyond that.
The early-election party on the “Labor"
benches is reported to shrinking fast.
Anzaas.
The twenty-ninth meeting of the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Association for
the Advancement of Science —to quote
its full and rather cumbrous name—was
opened officially on August 20 in the
Great Hall of Sydney University, already
prepared for it by an adequate heralding
in the Press and a discussion, on the pre-
ceding evening, as to Australia’s responsi-
bility in the development of science.
m spite of that, the section dealing
with the registration of members and the
issuing of invitations appears to have
been caught unawares, and the general
assembly convened for that purpose
opened up in a colossal muddle; it
showed considerable resilience, however,
and succeeded in getting its house in
order for the inaugural ceremony, which
was followed by a spate of short films.
These covered subjects ranging from
“Life with Babies,” detergents and micro-
scopy to travelogues, with a break in
between for the presidential address. And
then one section, composed mainly of
open-air scientific workers, got together
the same evening and smoothed the path
for future discussion by a conscientious
appraisal of Australian sherry, an example
followed on subsequent days by most of
the other sections.
Anzaas, unlike its progenitor, familiarly
known as the British Ass, does not yet
enjoy—and does not appear to court—
the popular interest of which the older
association is justly proud, and the reason
for this is obvious from a perusal of
the titles of papers presented, most of
which could not be expected to attract
the layman.
In truth, however, some of the lectures
on what appeared to be very abstruse
subjects were sheer delight. In other cases
—no names, no pack-drill—papers which
it would have been far better to print
for study at leisure by interested specialists
were read monotonously and at length
instead of having their highlights sum-
rfiarised for the guidance of those of the
audience who wished to pursue the subject
further.
The discussions, also, were often marred
by the vaporings of young scientists who
were dazzled by the newness of their
own recently-acquired doctorates and
who employed, quite unnecessarily, a
jargon almost incomprehensible to those
outside their own coterie.
Apart from these remediable faults, the
Anzaas convention was a success, and
served a very useful purpose in bringing
together a couple of thousand scientists
and making possible an exchange of ideas
between workers all over the Common-
wealth. But, as in most assemblies of its
kind, it attempted to force a quart into
a pint-pot. Organised science should
know better than that!
The writer would suggest that, at
future meetings, the reading, instead of
the expounding, of a thesis should be
deemed a social offence, as should the
employment of scientific jargon without
necessity and for the fictitious semblance
of erudition.
Professor John Perry used to say that
he learnt more when lecturing to work-
ingmen in London’s East End than at
any other time, as they forced him to talk
sense. Anzaas, also, will know that it is
a success when its conventions attract
the man-in-the-street instead of provid-
ing, as now, a purely scientific outlet for
the purely scientific opinions of as large
a number as possible of pure (and very
verbose) scientists.
L. O.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Gamblers' Party.
From D. Empson: —
Some of us old fellows who were drawn to
the Labor party when it and we were young
get many a cynical laugh out of its present-
day sins of commission and omission when we
read the papers.
One of its original aims was to secure for
the workers “the full results of their industry,”
especially by the “nationalisation” route. Now
the position has been reached that the
“nationalised” services are all bankrupt be-
cause their employees are getting not only
“the full results of their industry” but a great
deal more. In N. S. Wales, we were told the
other day, losses on Government trams and
buses, though fares are sky-high (fourpence for
the first section of a few hundred yards) are
expected to rise from £3,100,000 in 1951-52 to
at least £4,000,000 in 1952-53. “Ninety-five per
cent, of ail tram and bus revenue is eaten up
by wages and salaries; and this is not taking
into account the latest increase, 125., in the
basic wage.” Indeed, every tram and every
bus running in Sydney is losing Bd. and 4d. a
mile respectively; and N.S.W., Victorian and
South Australian Government railways losses
for 1951-52 exceeded £13,000,000.
As to that, a former N.S.W. railway guard
has been making interesting self-revelations in
a court case. Before he left the service he had
bought into a suburban hotel, and he has since
'acquired a partner’s interest in another and
in an expensive city pub, together with a
yacht, a car, a racehorse and a “£l5OO
diamond ring.” And all in six or seven years.
It seems a pity that “Labor” didn’t get to hear
of him and induce him to apply his wizardry
to the conversion of its railway-system from
bankruptcy to solvency.
So much for “nationalisation.”
Another Labor “objective” when the party
really had ideals was “the cultivation of an
enlightened and self-reliant community.” The
party’s actual method of promoting enlighten-
ment and self-reliance is to incite the people
to gamble. ‘ At best, this disgraceful descent
from the honest professions of the men of the
’nineties produces a small number of once-
hated capitalists—lucky prize-winners in
“Labor’s” insidious lotteries, allegedly brought
into existence to “help the hospitals,” which,
like the railways, trams and buses, are all
broke. At worst, it breeds credulous ignor-
ance, inertia, idleness, thriftlessness, waste of
community resources and —yes —that chronic
malady, never so infectious as after “a bad
trot” at the races, “industrial unrest.” What
is more, it supports multitudes of harpies,
loafers and persons engaged in worse-than-
useless callings, and, in one way and another,
has contributed more than anything else that
can be named to making Sydney a sink of
corruption.
At the beginning of a week rendered memor-
able by the evidence of police officers as to their
vast punting successes, a Sydney paper came
out with a photograph of the “Labor” Premier,
Mr. Cahill, standing between a horse-trainer
and a jockey on a racecourse grandstand. The
thing was titled “Three Leaders at Rosehill,”
and the trainer and boy were “shown receiv-
ing their trophies for 1951-52 from the
Premier.” In other and better days a Labor
Premier would have been called to account in
party-room and Parliament had he figured in
such a ceremony at such a time. Mr. Cahill
got away with it; and, though always pleading
a poor mouth in his arguments with the Com-
monwealth Government, he presumably read
with satisfaction that over sixty millions had
been “invested” on Sydney racecourses during
the year for which he handed out trophies.
Prodigious as the recorded amount is, the
mania for betting is such that as much or more
was wagered (in Sydney newspaper and radio-
station parlance, “invested”) in bookmakers’
clubs and all manner of starting-price joints,
none of which is ever raided or deprived of
telephones, though betting is legal only on
registered racecourses.
To the hard-featured fraternity of parasites
the myriads of punters, most of whom never
see a racecourse, are known as “the mugs.”
What chances “the mugs” have of rivalling
the coups of police chiefs may be judged from
the cases of a bookmaker and a jockey who
used to ride for him when he owned a string
of horses. The bookmaker died leaving over
£270,000, and by all accounts could have made
it a million. The jockey lost all he had punt-
ing, and, neglected by the tribe of bookmakers
who are alleged to have been so kind to Wool-
cott Forbes when he was “in trouble” (i.e.,
jail), is now eking out a poverty-stricken
existence, sick and old. Yet he was one of the
most famous riders of his time, and has for-
gotten more about racing than any of “the
mugs” will ever learn.
A Century of Learning.
With pomp and ceremony appropriate to
the occasion Sydney University last week
celebrated the centenary of its dedication
to the cause of knowledge.
Oldest of the Australian Universities
—Melbourne is two or three years its
junior—it was already in existence when
responsible government was granted to
the colony of New South Wales. The
Act incorporating the university received
the Royal Assent on October 1, 1850,
and the first Senate was appointed on
December 24 of that year. It was nearly
two years later that the formal inaugura-
tion took place. That was on October
11, 1852, after 24 candidates had passed
the first matriculation examination for
enrolment as undergraduates of the new
seat of learning. The final step to com-
plete establishment was taken on Feb-
ruary 27, 1858, when a Royal Charter
granted by Queen Victoria recognised
Sydney Uni. degrees.
Last week’s ceremonies were attended
by 70 representatives from universities in
other parts of the world. Oxford and
Cambridge were, of course, there, and
the Scottish universities St. Andrews,
Glasgow, Aberdeen and Edinburgh. When
staid academicians start celebrating they
don’t believe in using up all their enthu-
siasm in one day, so after the Wednesday
ceremony of presenting addresses from
their own universities the delegates again
donned their faculty robes the following
day and trooped again to the Great Hall
to hear Chief Justice Street deliver the
Centenary oration. On Friday they were
there once more to witness and partici-
pate in the conferring of honorary
degrees, the traditional method by which
a university pays tribute to distinguished
men.
In his oration the Chief Justice spoke
of the thinness of the barrier between
civilisation and barbarism and of the work
of the universities in strengthening that
barrier. In this connection an encourag-
ing thought may be drawn from the repre-
sentation at the Sydney celebrations of
the ancient universities which were res-
ponsible for keeping alight the lamps of
learning and civilisation when barbarisms
of other centuries threatened their extinc-
tion.
Now We Know!
Though Russians are not allowed to
travel beyond their own borders they are
kept well informed of the horrible condi-
tions which exist in capitalist countries
where the workers are getting out of hand
and preparing to turn their native lands
into replicas of the Soviet Union.
Through “New Times” the Soviet Gov-
ernment keeps them fully informed about
Australia among other countries.
Here, when Communists address lunch-
time factory meetings, “the starting-whistle
is ignored, time forgotten,” the represen-
tative of the boss who approaches is
“derided,” and “the men who live under
daily threat of sack continue to ask ques-
tions earnestly for nearly an hour.” Here
the “Indian summer of capitalism is
ended” ; the typical Australian worker,
“Jack Smith, a gay fellow, speaks grimly
of the deepening depression and the need
to defeat the war policy” of the Menzies
Government:
Only occasionally now can he allow him-
self the small luxury of a few beers and a
yarn to his mates Beer, like most other
things, has risen steeply in price he’s
now got to pay about half his wages for
hospital attention should he or any of his
family get ill. He sees the building of
schools at a standstill, due to war plans
construction of houses and flats declining.
.... work ceasing on construction works
while whole millions are spent on the
rocket range and such constructions of
aggressive war,
Jack is no longer a gay fellow. The
shadow of “Judge Kelly, chief of the
notorious Arbitration Court,” an ogre
who “has the power to jail anybody who
disobeys his orders or awards,” hangs
over him ; but he will be defeated because
“a wave of strikes has broken out across
the land,” and the Australian worker “has
few superiors when it comes to solidarity
in strikes.”
Even though the Government has intro-
duced legislation to empower the courts
to “order any person (a scab or a police-
spy) to become a member of a union,
while a militant can be barred from
membership,”, and the secret police are at
work arresting sellers of “progressive”
newspapers, scooping up wharfies for
writing “Wharfies must win” on wharves
and even “following Albert Monk, Social
Democrat secretary of the A.C.T.U.,
home,” the worker sings “Solidarity for
Ever” with “gusto.” Especially since “the
hideous use of germ-warfare can no
longer be hidden from the people,” and
“the Government and the capitalist Press
have been thrown into confusion” by Dr.
Burton’s revelations “trade-unionists
leapt to his support,” and the Carnival
of Peace and Friendship in Sydney had
“the support of the majority of Australian
intellectuals and trade-unionists.”
And that’s Australia as pictured in a
Soviet Government journal under the
name of Comrade Frank Hardy, of the
Australian Communist party, author of
Power Without Glory.
Community Hospitals.
That grand old man of Australian
medicine and surgery. Sir Henry Simpson
Newland, was an outstanding figure at
the Australian Medical Congress in Mel-
bourne when the first Henry Simpson
Newland oration was delivered by Sir
Victor Hurley, president of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital and past president
of the Federal Council of the B.M.A.
His theme was the absorbing one today
both in professional circles and in politics
—namely, the organisation of community
hospitals on a broad-based system of
national insurance. Modern costs and
“social-security” demands have enor-
mously increased the financial difficulties
of hospitals, and it is a vital interest of
everybody, said Sir Victor Hurley, that
a solution shall be found if the hospitals
are to carry out their essential service
to the community. “Adequate hospital
provision is more than a humanitarian
consideration ; it is also a sound national
investment.”
For many years the B.M.A. has con-
sistently advised Governments that the
adequate provision of hospitals should
have first priority in planning any national
health service. This requirement is admit-
tedly more difficult to. provide than the
payment of various sickness and hospital
benefits, which in themselves are an excel-
lent idea, but obviously such benefits are
ineffective unless there are sufficient hos-
pitals to accommodate people when they
need treatment.
Unless the people themselves provide
a substantial part of the money needed
by insuring themselves while in health
and employment, he said, the alternative
must be increased taxation and with it
State management and staffs of State
servants —an ignoble alternative indeed
for an intelligent and vigorous people.
Sir Victor urged as a line of advance
the development of community hospitals
throughout the land. The visible benefits
are then seen locally by committees sup-
porting their own hospitals. Among the
possible sources of income he did not
mention the astonishing support provided
in more than one South Australian rural
area by community hotels, whose profits
are annually disbursed among local public
institutions, first and foremost their
steadily growing community hospitals.
That at Renmark is the oldest of the sort
and a leading example.
The appeal in this address was no
doubt calculated as aid and encourage-
ment to the Commonwealth Government’s
scheme for subsidised surgical and hospi-
talisation service. The “Labor” party
has opposed it, though with failing effect,
as imposing “a means test,” meaning the
requirement that each State Government
should qualify as a recipient of Common-
wealth subsidy by requiring in turn its
citizens, as subsidised beneficiaries, to in-
sure themselves to the extent of sixpence
a week. This scheme, the first step in
the grand objective, which is universal
national insurance for the vast range of
“social-security” services which modern
generations demand, will come into force
in January next. To date only the
Queensland Government is obstinately
holding out for “free” medical service,
in line with the illusory and extravagant
proposals of the late Chifley Govern-
ment, which the 8.M.A., in the interests
of the nation, successfully resisted.
Passing of "Budgetitis"?
The President of the N.S.W. Chamber
of Manufactures blames the Common-
wealth Budget for the dearth of “new
overseas capital, equipment, manpower
and technical processes,” all of which,
he said, are fighting shy of Australia as
offering but poor returns for such invest-
ment. This may be true, but it is not the
Government’s fault.
How much the latest wail of the motor-
industry section of the Chamber influ-
enced this general commentary is conjec-
tural. Meanwhile there was a more
robust outlook being expressed in
Adelaide, where the Australian Institute
of Management has been conducting a
“seminar for sales managers,” and was
told by the managing-director of one
local firm —who summed up the opinions
expressed—that, “like a chicken, business
is always healthier when it is scratch-
ing,” and that it was getting healthier,
too, because “the unhealthy backlog of
orders has gone” and the true lifeblood
of business is flowing again. The manag-
ing-director of another manufacturing
firm said the present time, with labor
conditions no longer all the wage-earner’s
way, was ideal for employers to gain {he
confidence of their employees for co-
operative effort.
As for the heads of Chambers of Com-
merce who see “the symptoms of
Budgetitis beginning to disappear,” the
Adelaide president agreed that “the long-
term outlook in S.A. and all Australia is
thoroughly sound,” and he added:
“There is every reason to believe that the
worst of the present recession has already
passed.”
In S.A., too, three of the Housing
Trust’s contractors have offered to ab-
sorb the whole (or most) of the last two
basic-wage rises, and as a result many
smaller local builders have been per-
suaded to fall into line. One firm re-
ported it is succeeding in this effort by
reducing its profits, getting sub-contrac-
tors to reduce theirs, and so influencing
their employees “to work a bit harder”
in order to keep employment up.
As the Prime Minister said the other
day, the cure is to stop panic-howling
and get down to reorganising business in
the most favorable climate in the world
for its development.
Defence and the Citizen.
A feature of community life which has
died out in recent years has been the
association between civic and military
bodies.
Before World War I there was a close
liaison between the commercial com-
munity and the defence forces, but the
link appears to have been severed or so
weakened that it does rtot hold very
strongly. It is rare to see in Australia
the kind of association which one observes
in English towns and cities where the
local regiment or headquarters is very
much a part of everyday existence, where
regimental colors sometimes hang in the
cathedral or other public repository, and
where the corporation or the Chamber
of Commerce entertains the officers of
the forces at an annual function and
contributes generously to the develop-
ment of defence efficiency.
Sydney is beginning to recover some,
of the old spirit. Two or three years ago
a group of businessmen, headed by Mr.
A. E. Heath, then president of the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce, gave a dinner to
the officers of Headquarters Eastern Com-
mand, and as the outcome of this closer
connections have'developed. Recently a
set of beautiful candelabra was presented
to the Headquarters Mess at Victoria
Barracks, Paddington, by the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce to mark their
appreciation of the services rendered by
the Army in peace-time —in flood-rescue
work and in a hundred unobtrusive ways.
To mark the Jubilee Year Mr. Heath
and the Timber Trade Mutual Insurance
Company provided separate £5O trophies
for two years, and eventually a perpetual
trophy valued at £2O0 —christened by the
Army the Heath Cup—for a competition
among the military units of Eastern Com-
mand. This is vigorously fought for on
points awarded for attendance at annual
camp, weapon-training, platoon drill com-
petition and unit camp inspection, (n
1951 the winners were the 30th Battalion,
Scottish Regiment, attached to the Second
Division of the Citizen Forces.
It is an idea which would bear con-
siderable extension. Especially since
national service has made it inevitable
that a very large proportion of youngsters
must undergo military training, which has
in consequence begun to be fashionable,
it seems that a greater local effort might
be made to develop the contact between
business and defence, and to promote
a local social background for service.
Ghostly Under-secretaries.
From the war front on Molongloside:
The appointment of the Parliamentary
under-secretaries, the cause of so much
hubbub in Parliament last week and of so
much triumph to the Press gallery, which felt
that over it the Speaker who had robbed them
of their poker-school had been done in the eye,
was made originally on February 22, 1950. The
(Continued on next page.)
"RACHEL HENNING" AS A BOOK.
The Letters of Rachel Henning
were written to relatives by Rachel
Henning, an intellectual, adventurous
young Englishwoman, between 1853
and 1882, and represent a fascinat-
ing, authentic and first - hand
record of Australian history. They
have a gossipy charm and provoca-
tiveness that make them an absorbing
story to present-day readers, bringing
back the atmosphere of the past with
a freshness that nothing in our literary
or published historical records has
previously done.
The Letters of Rachel Henning
are now on sale in book form.
They are illustrated with over
40 superb pen-drawings by Norman
Lindsay, supplemented by maps and
other relevant addenda.
The Letters of Rachel Henning
represent a book of about 110,000
words, well printed, with an attractive
illustrated manilla cover. There is an
authoritative introduction and an
epilogue to the letters, as well as many
explanatory notes, all combining to
make the book a complete and satis-
fying factual story, unique in
Australian literature.
The Letters of Rachel Henning will be sent post-free to any address
in Australia on receipt of seven shillings and sixpence {7s. 6d.) by :
The Book Department,
“THE BULLETIN,” BOX 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


Hr
•.v.v.v.v.v.v.v.v.sjjw.
&jSST4
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,”
Sydney.
BW 8631.
Esdcsile's 2ix
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
• Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
• Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
• Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2|x —Eye relief 3£in.
to Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 28ft. per
100 yards.
w
n HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
64 TEARS OP SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
&
3
mww
is "a movie fan,”
Every boy is a half-built roan,
Every boy of the "make-good” sort j
Sticks to study as well as sport.
Every boy with a healthy brain
Will greet* a sneak with a boy’s
disdain.
Every boy with a cold, be sure,
Barracks for
<
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Core.
bulletin questioned the legality of the appoint-
ments, but the first official reference to the
Status of the new functionaries occurred inthe
re P ort of Mr. Justice Nicholas’s commission,
(j le Government had asked to consider
salaries for them. The commission stated in
June, 1951, that “doubt has been raised as to
whether the seat of an under-secretary would
not be forfeited if he were to receive any salary
j n addition to his Parliamentary allowance,”
but, subject to that question being settled, it
assessed them for £5OO a year, having accepted
dictum of the Government that they had
duties necessarily more arduous and more
constant than those of private members, and
their expenses were higher.”
In May last, when the Government had
failed to test the position over two and a half
yea/s, the Speaker, answering Mr. Calwell, said
My view is that the appointments are uncon-
sptutional, that no Minister has the power to
delegate his authority to anybody, and that
any administrative apt made % or done by a
Parliamentary under-secretary renders him
liable to penalties entailed for wrongly holding
a seat ai parliament.” He made it clear that
this was a personal opinion—“l am a small
farmer, not a lawyer”—and not a Speaker’s
“igj Government stul made n 0 atttmpt t 0
test the matter, though all its plans had been
thwarted until the Opposition raised the matter
again. Mr. Fadden, Acting Prime Minister,
then said that the appointments had been made
inf onnally, that the “under-secretaries do no
executive act atta ched to Ministerial office by
i aw ,” and that they were “paid only travelling
expenses, which was in no sense a fee”; also,
that “the position under our Constitution has
been examined by Attorney-General Spicer, who
ac jvised that in his clear opinion they do
not in law hold an office at all, still less an
office of profit under the Crown”—though he
did not explain why, if that was intended it
bad been officially stated in 1950 that the under-
secretaries would act executively in handling
legislation in Parliament or how it came about
that the Nicholas Commission had been asked
to recommend, and had recommended (subject
to the legality of the offices), £5OO a year for
being forced to take action
through the Swartz incident, it did not follow
the normal course of asking the Speaker to
make an official ruling and then moving dis-
agreement with it if necessary. It gagged
through—in face of a half-hearted attempt by
the Opposition to have the matter referred to
the High Court and without a single rank-and-
file Government member speaking—a resolu-
tion approving a statement by the Prime
Minister which held that the Parliamentary
under-secretaries, despite the fact that they are
so-called and have rooms bearing the names of
their office allotted in the House, were not to
be judged, as to their position, by the description
applied to them, they do not in law hold
any office at all; but that nevertheless it
is intended to ask the Standing Orders Corn-
mittee to provide that they may sometimes take
charge of the passage of bills through Parlia-
ment in their committee stages.
If the offices are constitutionally illegal no vote
can make them legal even if Parliament is
unanimous. And the vote does not debar the
Speaker from giving a ruling if the question
arises. He was obviously not asked to do so on
this occasion, since he would probably have
quoted his authorities and the Constitution,
which might have made it impossible for the
Government to refuse the request of the Opposi-
tion to produce the opinions of Senator Spicer
and the law experts who were said to have
supported him. The statement, adopted by 54
votes to 46 by the House, depended on the
opinion of the Government and its silent sup-
porters.
Directly after the vote was taken Mr.
Harrison, as leader of the Government, in-
formed the Speaker of the name of the member
whom the Government had selected to succeed
the late Mr. Ryan, of Flinders, as Deputy
Chairman of Committees. The Speaker pointed
out th*t the Standing Orders placed the appoint-
Sf'hS SUS’’a “pejT
one named by the Government.
POLITICAL POINTS
Flinders, the seat now vacant through
the death of R, S. Ryan, has always been
a Liberal seat, except for the landslide-
year 1929, when E. J. Holloway wrested
it from Priminister Bruce by 305 votes in
a poll of 63,000, Bruce made a come-
back two years later, beating his “Labor”
opponent by 24,000. Holloway, wisely, did
not stand on that occasion; content with
his first victory, he transferred to the
safer haven of Melbourne Ports, which
sheltered him until his retirement last
year. When Bruce went to London in
1933 as High Commissioner he was suc-
ceeded in Flinders by J. V. Fairbairn.
Ryan came into the picture in 1940, after
Fairbairn, then Minister for Air, was
killed in an air crash at Canberra along
with his fellow-Ministers Gullett and
Street and Lieut.-General Brudenell
White, Chief of the General Staff.
Reduced in area and numbers at the
Chifley redistribution. Flinders gave
Ryan a majority of 3668 in 1949 and 4004
last year. “Labor” hopes of winning
the seat at the by-election are based on
belief in a general swing against the Gov-
ernment and on expectations that some
of the late member’s personal following
may be won away from his party. As to
the latter factor, the Government vote
in the “Red” referendum last September
was much the same as at the election a
few months earlier.
Some prophets have been saying that
the death of Country-party Senator
Piesse (W.A.) may mean that “Labor”
will control the Senate after next June.
This is the position: The late Senator’s
successor will be chosen by the West
Australian Government, and, following
precedent, he will be a Country-party
man. Although Senator Piesse’s terra
would not have expired until 1956, his
successor will have to face the electors
next year, so that instead of electing five
Senators, as will be the case in other
States, Westralia will have to choose six.
Under proportional-representation it is a
foregone conclusion that on a party basis
the seats in other States will split three-
two, and since by-elections and public-
opinion polls indicate a swing against
the -Government, “Labor” has been
confidently proclaiming that it will
win the odd seat in each State, thus pro-
ducing a deadlocked Senate. Its hopes
of gaining control of the Senate are
based on the optimistic belief that it may
now be able to pick up four out of the
six W.A. vacancies next June. To do this
“Labor” would need to poll 57.1 p.c. of
the votes. Even in 1943, at the zenith
of John Curtin’s popularity, the best it
could manage was 54 per cent.
The real effect of the extra vacancy in
Westralia is to make that State the only
one for which the election result can
safely be predicted at this stage ; the only
possibility now is three-all. Senator
Piesse’s death does, however, improve
“Labor’s” chance of a deadlock, as the
Government, too, had hopes of a three-
two victory in W.A. as well as in Queens-
land. Its tactics now will presumably be
to concentrate on the latter State and
make a bird of that.
Hearing of evidence in the N. S. Wales
royal commission on the liquor industry
is expected to be completed this week.
Announcement of this seems to have
caused minor unrest in some of the other
States. There has been a demand in Mel-
bourne for an inquiry into Victoria’s
liquor industry, and in the Tasmanian
Parliament the accusation has been made
that some Hobart policemen have been
sharing fifty-fifty in the profits of illegal
poker-machines. Tas. Attorney-General
Fagan is looking into things.
Not that it’s got anything to do with
liquor, but the Queensland royal com-
mission report on s.-p. betting is to be
tabled in Parliament this week.
Atlantic honors didn’t stay with the
Yanks for long. Within a few weeks
of the liner United States breaking both
the east- and west-bound records and
giving America the Blue Riband for the
first time in almost a century, a British
Canberra jet bomber made a two-way
crossing (Northern Ireland to Newfound-
land and back) in one day. Actual flying-
time was four hours 33 minutes on the
outward flight and, a headwind becoming
a tailwind, three hours 25 minutes on
the return trip. In effect, the pilot
managed the feat in two minutes under
his eight-hour day, assuming he took
time off while the mechanics serviced his
plane between the two flights.
A striking illustration of the part high
wool prices have played in the last few
years was given by CP. leader Bruxner
in the N. S. Wales Assembly when, point-
ing out that in 1950-51 Australia earned
£635 million from overseas sales of
wool, he mentioned that that figure
for one year exceeded the total
wealth won from goldmines in the cen-
tury since gold was first discovered here.
“Consequently,” said Bruxner, “we went
on the spree in no uncertain manner.”
The trouble is that too many people do
not yet realise that the spree is over.
The High Court is not likely to see Dr.
Evatt arguing that an unpaid under-
secretary on the Government benches
enjoys an office of profit under the Crown
while a highly-paid Leader of his
Majesty’s Opposition does not.
A small section of railway from Rich-
mand to Kurrajong (N.S.W.) is under
death-sentence, the reason given being
that the amount of traffic offering does
not warrant its continuance. This has
drawn from the member for the district
the comment that if the test for a line is
whether it is paying then the entire N. S.
Wales railway system should be closed
down.
N.S.W. Premier Cahill last weekend
revived his cry for more loan money to
prevent dismissals from Government em-
ployment, But on the same day his
Transport Minister told a conference of
departmental and union officers that,
although “no one has ever worked out
what we lose in uncollected fares,” there
need be no dismissals in the tram and
bus services “if every conductor and con-
ductress took ss. a day more.” It is thus
a fair deduction that the Cahill Govern-
ment is badgering the Commonwealth
Government for more of somebody clse’s
money either because it can’t enforce
collection of its due revenue, or does not
wish to annoy the unions by trying to
do so.
Communist Sharkey, who went home
to Russia a few weeks ago to try out the
Soviet medical-benefits treatment for a
hard heart or some similar complaint,
has now been appointed by the central
committee of the Australian comrades as
their representative at the 19th Congress
of the Communist party. In Marxist
theology nothing happens by accident, so
it can only be assumed that the apparent
coincidence of Sharkey’s ticker needing
attention just in time for him to reach
Moscow for the Congress was economi-
caliy determined.
Another pressure-group enters the
political ring with the wail of the Chamber
of Automotive Industries agamst “high
taxation, credit-controls and inflated
overheads.” Inflated overheads, mclud-
mg commission on sales, are this group’s
own affair; but when spokesmen for the
motor-car business demand an inflated
Government Budget and special releases
of credit in order to enable the public
to buy cars as in the boom years, they
are showing that they care little for the
public as consumer or taxpayer, or for
the national economy, either.
Next year will be election-year for
most of the States. By the calendar
South Australia and West Australia
should be the first to the polls—some
time in March, with Victoria and
Queensland a month or SO later, and
New South Wales at the end of June.
That’c w;bon tWp W ar fp-rmc nrp
mats when tneir three-year terms are
up, but there’s no guarantee that Premier
Cahill won’t decide to beat the gun or
that Half-Premier McDonald won’t have
J • • . f u ■ r- „„ .
the decision made for him. Down in
Hobart, where, under a five-year plan, a
“Labor”-minority Government has held
office for 24 years, an election will be
... J L • ' , ,
held as soon as sufficient members want
it. For the present no one seems to
want it.
The taboo on divorce reform among the
rvVHtiral twrtW ic «nrh that althmmh the
political parties is suen mat altnougn me
lack of a uniform Commonwealth divorce
law has become almost a national in-
decency, and most members will pay lip-
„ . 3 1 .. • . f
service to the crying need for uniformity
m laws which are quite obsolete m some
of the States, it takes a private member’s
bm to get “cQnsideration” of the subject
by Cabinet. The neglect has now per-
sisted for 52 years.
Efforts over the years of Red-ants in-
side the N S Wales Teachers’ Federa-
siae me JN. a. waies leacners reoera
tion to proletariate the teaching pro-
fession don’t seem to have cut much ice
as far as one Government instrumentality
is concerned According to Deane
IS concerned. According t J ueane,
Liberal M.L.A. for Hawkesbury, he
asked the Housing Commission to make
some homes available for teachers in the
„„ j tko
St. Mary s district and was told No, h
homes are only for workers.
Historical vignette from N. S. Wales
“Hansard,” Ex-Speaker Dan Clyne
(Lab. King) speaking on the death of
Albert ( Jupp ) Gardiner, ex-M.H.R. and
M.L.A,, told how, on June 11, 1941,
Gardiner, Arthur Rae and Frank Cotton
rniwi nn him at Parliament House
callea on rum at Parliament Lie use.
Gardiner, acting as spokesman, said:
‘Mr. Speaker, we were elected to this Par-
liament 50 years ago today. At that time
a Labor party in Parliament was regarded
as an experiment. After 50 years it gives
us great pleasure to exercise our rights and
privileges as ex-members of this House.
We propose to lunch in the Parliamentary i
dining-room.’ I told them how happy I was
to have them present, and asked them
would they not care to have lunch with
me in the Speaker’s room. Mr. Gardiner
replied ‘No, we will have lunch in the
members’ dining-room, and will be joined
by Joe Cook, whom we have invited, for
although we have drifted apart, he was
one of the original group, and he has
expressed his delight at being asked to be
present.’ Sir Joseph Cook did not arrive,
but the luncheon took place.,. .They were
disappointed that Sir Joseph was not pre-
sent, but I discovered that he had mis-
understood their invitation. Being Aus-
tralian bushmen, they had invited him for
‘dinner,’ which, to them, was the mid-
day meal, but Sir Joseph Cook gave a
literal interpretation to the invitation and
came here at half-past five in the evening.
The House was closed and the dining-room
staff had begun to disperse, and no one
was more disappointed than he at the lost
opportunity. Later I told Albert what
had happened, and he was pleased to learn
that Sir Joseph had not knowingly let
them down.
Victoria’s former Agent-General Nor-
man Martin who now rejoices in the
resounding title Director of Decentralised
Industrial Development, has been check-
hig up on the spreading of new industries
and has calculated that £6O million will
be spent in the next few years in exten
s i on of private industry in Victoria Oil
companies will be responsible for a’laree
slice—Vacuum, £l5 million at Altona-
shell, £lO million at Geelong Ford
Motors plan a £4| million expansion
programme at Geelong, where British
Celanese also expects to build a plant at
a cost of £lO million. Heinz, Repco and
Dunlop Rubber are other concerns with
programmes of development running into
millions. Doc. Evatt may be expected
any day now to issue a statement proving
that this expansion spells unemployment
and depression.


gff^NG-
PAtiCY
€3iBI?iE
0
.00,
C-Ol^CriC^Grijy
(P& C<&iK>
Ar yoOtAQ? oO^AvWS
TU^A \6
/ XcP 'VH
t: SuOlN\'~‘Sui'T < S -
SEASONAL.


%
| UjhenTime
means money
£peed
with
Comfort
Fly in luxurious
Canadian Pacific
“Empress” airliners... relax in comfortable
“Loungaire” reclining chairs. Enjoy the
finest of food . . . bar service and cham-
pagne aloft, complimentary, of course.
Fly relaxed arrive refreshed.
SYDNEY . AUCKLAND • FIJI
HONOLULU • VANCOUVER
En route to UNITED STATES and U.K.
(Free stopovers at Fiji 13 hours /
Hh
and Honolulu —32 hours.)
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents ) at Zlfil George
St., Sydney, and 59 William St., Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency will be glad to
offer you full information.
JURUNES
“Wings of the World’s Greatest Travel System’’
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited—lncorporated in Canada.
KU? mom SAFE*
SANDERS#
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc.. Died in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
(be end of each month —or
any other period.
i
£V»w?.
V.vSi’
Price* and far-
ther inrormatloa
■ pon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lxa
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
THIS IS THE BANK YOU OWN
7^
CSV.
NS
ft
z
*
&
o
VL
quality of service rendered by
any bank depends mainly on
the staff—the men and women who conduct
the business of the bank’s clients. Behind
the scenes in the Commonwealth Bank the
careful training of the staff is going on
continuously. You may be certain, therefore,
that in this bank officers attending to your
needs know banking from A to Z and can
handle your business speedily and efficiently.
In addition the Commonwealth Bank
employs highly trained specialists whose
knowledge covers the many aspects of
finance and economics. These officers are
all working in your interests.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
**2Ae*@a*tA 0t&w oj/
C. 5.8.28-82
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Produclion and Bureaucracy
The 40-hour week has had the
effect of pricing many Australian
exports out of world markets.
This is more especially so
since competition from Japan,
Germany, Italy and similar
countries began to make itself
felt. In the end, the country
which can sell the cheapest in
world markets and still make a
profit is the one which produces
the most goods per man per
working week ; and in Australia
introduction of the 40-hour week
has struck at the very source of
our competitive ability.
Many manufacturers report
that since business conditions
began to slacken and sales started
to become more difficult, with
the consequent putting-off of
hands, their rate of man-hour
output has increased. In other
words, the job they are now in
has become much more
important than it was to very
many wage-earners. But an
immature, industrially back-
ward country like Australia
cannot hope to produce at the
same hourly rate in its manu-
facturing industries as older
countries can, and it needs to
work more hours per week than
the United States, for instance,
does.
Even if we consider ourselves
essentially a primary-producing
country, and say blithely that
our manufacturing industries can
go hang, then there is more
need than ever for a greater
working effort by the Aus-
tralian people. Farm hours
are long hours ; Nature itself has
decided that. The 40-hour week
in Australia has robbed the
dairying industries of many of
their hands.
Our low rate of productivity
is becoming a desperately serious
thing. While wool prices were
high we were able to import
many of the things that we did
not produce in Australia. Wool
prices have fallen by about half,
and our capacity to import has
dropped by almost the same pro-
portion. We are still urgently
in need of raw materials and
essential manufactured goods.
The standard of living of almost
any employed person is falling,
and our capital-goods position
is deteriorating every day. The
transport system is a case in
point. In N.S.W. particularly it
is decrepit.
All Governments of Australia
should take urgent note of our
production and capital-assets
position. There is a tendency in
Government departments to take
it for granted that industry will
carry on —it always has, even
though nasty depressions have
had to be battled through. But
these days departments weigh
heavily on industry unless the
departments are enlightened and
efficient, this by reason of the
fact that their powers over in-
dustry are so great, either
through finance or through
“regulation.” And it is unfor-
tunate that in a period when
responsibilities are increasing,
departmental efficiency and
understanding have been falling,
in many cases.
Let no person fool himself:
we are not going to get out of
our present production slump
without a great deal more work
from wage-earners and without
a drastic change in the attitude
of many thousands of civil
servants.
There has been far too much
politicalisation of departmental
functions and of those of the
Commonwealth Bank, and there
are too many political wire-
pullers and pressure-groupers
around and within the civil
service and Governments. A
breed of loafers, time-servers and
hangers-on has grown up since
war began, and their careers of
apparent opulence without pro-
ducing anything have influenced
the thinking of too many others.
Nobody likes to be thought a
“mug”— not even the fellow who
is really interested in doing a
fair day’s work for his pay.
Every effort should now be
made to show the community
that the real mug is the loafer,
the scaler and the opportunist —
that is, by tossing him out of his
“ Hooray! Hope I got the same room as last year.”
cosy nest wherever he can be
found.
This is no time for smugness
—in Government departments, in
the Commonwealth Bank, in
industry or anywhere else.
Before long Australians as a
whole are going to be working
a lot harder, with fewer non-
productive passengers among
them, whether they like the
thought of it or not. And the
sooner they get cracking on the
job the sooner will we get out
of our mess„
R. B. Davies Industries
The link-up between R. B.
Davies Industries, Ltd., and the
Yorkshire Copper Works, Ltd.
(Leeds), means the beginning of
a big industry in Australia.
Failing to get Capital Issues
consent to a new issue of shares
in order to take up a 49 p.c.
interest in a £300,000-capital
subsidiary co. to be formed
to make “Yorkshire” capil-
lary non-ferrous pipe-fittings,
which permit the use of
light-gauge copper pipes in the
plumbing trades and make the
work much easier, the R. B.
Davies concern has entered into
a partnership with the Yorkshire
co., and production will begin
about the end of this year not-
withstanding Capital Issues
opposition to the original capital
plans.
(A number of efforts to get
consent to the issue were made
between June and December,
1951, and in view of continued
refusal R. B. Davies Industries
took the matter to the High
Court, where the case is still sub
judice.)
Some publicity was given to
the capillary-fitting project in the
Australian Press last week arising
out of a news-item in the “York-
shire Post,” and in Sydney R. B.
Davies Industries explained that,
the Yorkshire Copper Works
having transmitted its share of
the money to Australia, together
with a considerable quantity of
machinery for use in the new
undertaking, and having formed
in England a pool of technical
operatives to come to Australia
to establish the new industry, the
Davies concern had decided to
join with the Yorkshire co. in a
joint venture or partnership.
If consent to the issue of
capital becomes unnecessary, or
is given by Capital Issues, the
original proposals (perhaps
modified) may be resorted to by
the partners.
The R. B. Davies business is
at present the largest (and prob-
ably the most efficient) manu-
facturer of builders’ hardware in
the Commonwealth. It turns out
padlocks and door-locks of the
.most modern variety, including
the Schlage lock. Its capa-
bilities are obviously appreciated
by the Yorkshire co. It has a
large and expanding modern
factory at Marrickville (Syd-
ney), and the undertaking is
at present capitalised at
£521,367, all in ord. shares. The
manufacture of “Yorkshire”
capillary fittings in this country
should revolutionise plumbing
methods, as has already been
the case in Britain. No screw-
thread is necessary in a capillary
joint in a pipe.
R. B. Davies shares at 275.
yield 5.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, and have distinct long-
term prospects.
Roma Gas
“Petro”: A 10-minute test of
the gas sands encountered in the
geophysically - sited bore six
miles east of the town of Roma,
in South Queensland, has yielded
results even less encouraging
than those of the wells drilled in
the past in this area and located
haphazardly. The gas sands,
first struck at 166 ft. above bed-
lock and now stated to persist
over a vertical depth of 88ft.,
from 3712 ft. to 3800 ft., showed
a flowing pressure of 901 b. per
square inch and what was termed
an appreciable volume of gas
per day.
Whether the gas is “wet” is
not stated, but of far more value
in making an appraisal of oil
prospects would have been a
quantitative indication of the
amount of gas produced and of
the degree of porosity and per-
meability of the gas sands
passed through, the uppermost
of which appears to possess a
thickness of 18ft.
At a mean depth of 3750 ft.
one would expect a static
pressure of the order of 20001 b.
per square inch and a “flowing”
pressure of, say, half that
amount. The low figure
obtained, if it means anything at
all, confirms the lenticular con-
ditions which, so far, have
proved to be übiquitous under
Roma.
Associated Australian Oil-
fields now proposes to test the
lift, section of No. 4 Roma
Blocks well, where oil sands
were reported in 1941 between
3497 ft. and 3508 ft,, “pending a
decision concerning the location
of No. 2 well.” It is to be hoped
that the interpretations of the
geophysical data in the case of
the No. 2 bore will be nearer the
truth than were those of the now-
abandoned No. 1 well-site.


ẁ
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7. G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pnllen, Public Trustee.
Now!
Make
Your
Money Earn More
in A ustmlim Best Investment
A
mmm
ffILT
EM9
I
A Trustee Security
in Queensland
(closing on or before September 13th , 1952)
City Electric Light Co. Ltd. is the largest
public utility company supplying electricity in
Australia today. It supplies power to the City
of Brisbane, and over a wide provincial area
of S.E. Queensland, and the Tweed Shire of
New South Wales, covering 10,000 square miles.
Its record since its inauguration in 1904 is one
of remarkable growth and progress. Today
its paid-up share capital exceeds £10,000,000 and
its assets are valued at over £18,000,000. No
sounder investment is available in Australia,
and the return from this Loan is better than
that obtainable from any comparable security.
This Loan is for 10 years, the repayment
date being 30th September, 1962. Cash
subscriptions may be paid in full on application,
or by deposit of 10 per cent on application and
the balance not later than 15th December, 1952.
Subscriptions of £5O, and multiples of £5O,
can be made, free of exchange. Interest at
the rate of 4J per cent per annum will be
payable half-yearly, on 31st January and 31st
July in each year, free of exchange at any branch
of the Company’s Bankers. This most attractive
interest rate is now more than twice the highest
return from any bank deposit.
Loan OPEN NOW
Prospectus and Applications. Prospectus is available from, and applications
free of exchange may be lodged with:
The Bankers for the Issue: The English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd., and the National
Bank of Australasia Ltd. the Queensland National Bank Ltd.) at any of their offices
in Queensland, Northern Rivers of N.S. W., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart
or Launceston.
or with Messrs. lan Potter & Co., members of Melbourne Stock Exchange, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or through any members of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia, or at any office
of the City Electric Light Co. Ltd.
The Loan has been underwritten by Messrs. lan Potter & Co., Melbourne
City Electric Light Co.Lld.
A Company incorporated in Queensland; and also registered in New South Wales', where it is an electric authority in the Shire of Tweed
HEAD OFFICE: 156 BOUNDARY STREET, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND. Phone 82333
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
A Communist stratagem, in
the shape of a two-pronged
thrust at the vitals of the defence
and export programmes, has
been scotched by the action of
the executive council of the
engineering unions in referring
the £2-a-week wage-claim back
to the employers.
The nature of this claim is
significant, for it marks a much
bolder phase in Communist
tactics. Workers in the engin-
eering and allied trades, who had
an increase of 11s. a week last
November, asked for a further
£2, representing another £2OO
million a year on the nation’s
wages bill —equal to one-half of
the total increases pending for
all industries. The claim
astounded even the undying
hopes of the workers themselves.
It was clearly to provoke a
strike, since there was absolutely
no chance of the demand being
met.
In previous years, when the
shipping of cargoes to Korea
was more important than it is
now, the main seat of trouble
was the docks. Now the situa-
tion is different. Exports have
fallen, except in engineering pro-
ducts, and the purchase of arms
by hard-currency countries
promises valuable dollars. Hence
the change of focus. A strike
of six weeks or so could arrest
this drive, causing irreparable
damage to Britain’s recovery;
and acquiescence, under duress,
to the claim might ultimately
lead to the same end because
of its inflationary effect upon
prices.
Meantime, responsible com-
ment on trade-union leadership
is both plain-spoken and un-
easy. London “Times,” tearing
into shreds the ingenious excuses
for mounting wage-claims, also
points a searching word or two
at the duality of members of the
T.U.C. general council, a third
of whom are “actively present-
ing big wage claims.” And the
scrupulously fairminded “Man-
chester Guardian” refers to the
present lack of understanding
and behavior in industry as
felo de se.
Political Patches
The traditional British liking
for a contest and the good-
humored taking of sides which
invariably follows certainly don’t
apply to the Attlee-Bevan affair.
A row between two politicians
of, ostensibly, the same color is
particularly unedifying. The
understanding and restraint that
govern normal good behavior ar e
notably absent, especially when
one of the participants is as
well-practised in the mechanics
of demagogy as Mr. Bevan
himself. Mr. Attlee, it is
true, has done his best both
to uphold his dignity and to
avoid the impression that his
team was at loggerheads on the
field of play. Only 10 months
ago, in a broadcast speech before
the general election, he affirmed
that Mr. Bevan had always been
“a loyal colleague.” So, indeed,
he was, when failure to obey the
three-line whip meant the pos-
sibility of bringing down the
then Government with the un-
forgivable consequences of
haying betrayed the party.
Socialists in opposition have
no such inhibitions. The party-
line quickly deviates from the
middle and the rift widens. Mr.
Attlee’s acid reproof to Mr.
Bevan over Cabinet secrecy has
sent the latter’s irrepressible
cronies into energetic research
for precedents.
More than likely, Attlee’s re-
proof on the eve of the Parlia-
mentary recess was intended to
rouse into action the many
moderate Socialists who do not
like Mr. Bevan personally and
who will be taking part in the
fraternal merrymaking at the
Morecambe conference next
month. At all events, that
stylistic apostle of deeper
Socialism, the “New States-
man,” seems to take this
view. It states: “By smearing
Mr. Bevan personally and by
hurling accusations of disloyalty
and conspiracy against his sup-
porters they [the anti-Be.van
cabal] seek to distract the atten-
tion of the party from the issues
of policy. This is the oldest
refuge in the world for the bank-
rupt politician.”
Dummy Run
“Albert, R.N.” (Saville
Theatre), has for its setting
Marlag V, a p.-0.-w. camp for
naval officers in North-West
Germany. Its seven scenes are
dominated by escape—in turn,
strenuous but hopeless; a new
idea with possibilities; a suc-
cessful tryout: an immediate
success; an independent, fool-
hardy and tragic bid; a well-
planned but frustrated second
attempt; the sudden undoing of
months of preparation and a
stiff-lipped resolve to start all
over again.
“Albert is a papier-machi
head, made, with characteristic
ingenuity, out of German news-
papers and artists’ size from Red
Cross parcels. A wire frame,
detachable legs, a watch-coat,
boots and the escaper’s cap com-
plete the dummy and enable him
to be smuggled, severally, to the
wash-house outside the camp.
There he is assembled and
“marched” back in the middle
file while the escaper bides his
time in the latrine before mak-
ing his getaway. Moreover, the
idea is not fiction. It is fact and
was successfully employed dur-
ing the war. Yet, so strange is
truth and so unaccountable is
the theatre that credulity is over-
strained: instead of giving sub-
stance to authenticity the
dramatic treatment does the
reverse.
A secondary theme is the
mental state of “Albert’s”
creator, an artist-intellectual,
whose sensitivity and long
sojourn have occasioned an
unhappiness much deeper than
that of the hearties. Supposedly
going “round the bend,” he twice
funks his own rightful bid for
freedom, but is finally persuaded
to make it. He is discovered,
cheeks the dyed-in-the-Wilhelm-
strasse Nazi, and returns, self-
possessed and invigorated, after
61 days of solitary confinement.
A few articles of clothing from
pusser sources and odd expres-
sions like “Good show!” and
“What’s the buzz?” insuffi-
ciently hint at the wardroom
background, but there is an
engagingly earnest “schoolie”
(Hugh Latimer), and a true-to-
tradition four-ringer (Laidman
Browne). As the many-sided
artist, Hugh Burden is epony-
mously overladen, but makes
light of the excessive demands
upon his technique. The U.S.
internees are better contrasted
and defined than those of the
wavy-navy. So also are the
three Germans: the blimpish
old-school Kommandant, the
egregious Nazi and Harmless
Hermann, the comic - opera
orderly.
“Albert,” recreated for this
occasion by his originator, John
Worsley (who also has designed
the set), is himself a potent actor.
Interest quickens at his concep-
tion and fades after his prema-
ture end.
One cautionary hope remains
—that he will not set the fashion
for a succession of escape-plays.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
James Hackston witnesses the birth of
an earlier Anzus pact:
When some American warships were in Syd-
ney many years back I eniered The Bulletin
office and had hardly got inside when two
American sailors strode mightily past, breasted
the counter, thumped it and asked “Is this
the home of the White Australia parlicy?”
The staff-side of the counter was bare at the
moment, and I was the only one to hear the
friendly, clarionlike query, but just then Rod
Quinn came up the stairs, and the sailors, still
waiting for an answer, swung round, and one
repeated “Is this the home of the White Aus-
tralia parlicy?” Rod never said a word, but,
advancing towards them, held out a friendly
hand which the nearest sailor to him gripped
in a vicelike hold. While the two stood, locked
together in their new friendship, with the other
sailor waiting his turn to grip Rod’s hand, up
came Henry Lawson. Seeing Rod and one
sailor locked in eternal friendship, Henry
advanced dramatically towards the othqr, who
1
HLACk"
“That reminds me - it must be nearly tea-time."
greeted him with “Is this the home of the
White Australia parlicy?” Henry said not a
word, but fixed his sailor with an Ancient
Mariner’s eye and poked out a long, brown
sleeve at the end of which a long, lean hand
reached towards him. It was seized and held,
the two standing like Rod and the first Yank,
locked in eternal friendship. For an appreciable
grouped statue of Australia and
Amerjca united, for ever and ever, had,
rain or shine, kangaroo and eagle, tail up,
beak up, two continents as one, unbreakable,
omnipotent, destiny with destiny, Yankee
Doodle, Waltzing Matilda, a noble tableau of
two nations met. Then the heroic-looking
group, with almost awe-inspiring dignity,
wheeled slowly round and, without consulta-
tion or other verbal suggestion, but acting on
one great, brotherly, deep-felt, unspoken
thought, linked arms and went grandly,
triumphantly and unmistakably out into
George-street.
* * * *
“Craiser”; One couldn’t help but be
tremendously impressed by the proceed-
ings at the Medical Congress in Mel-
bourne, and at the enormous amount of
knowledge and research that had gone
into the scores of papers read by world-
famous specialists in their various depart-
ments, even though one couldn’t under-
stand a tittle of it; but the thing that
impressed me most was a casual remark
made to me by one doctor. “Of a hundred
cases of inflamed appendix at the
hospitals,” he said, “three would die if
not operated upon, so we operate on the
whole hundred.”
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bo”: Over 12 months ago a portion
of Belmore Park, opposite Sydney’s
Central Railway Station, was segregated
from the rest by a high fence surmounted
by three rows of barbedkwire, which
aroused speculation among the citizenry,
the most-favored guess being that some
extra hush-hush defence activity por-
tended. Months went by, and then what
appeared to be two ancient fowlhouses
were transported to the site among the
luxuriant crop of weeds. Since then the
only discernible sign of activity has been
the furious growing of the rank vegeta-
tion, and the reasons for this strange out-
crop of aldermanic genius have been
narrowed down to four possibilities: U)
To observe, at rare intervals, the effect,
if any, on the growth of clover, fat-hen
and couch-grass in the enclosure of the
playing of draughts by old-age pensioners
at tables in the park outside the fence ;
(2) to allow geologists to work surrep-
titiously at night with Geiger-counters to
determine if the ground holds any radio-
active minerals; (3) to allow botanists to
determine how many years it will take
for the roots of the nearest trees in the
park to penetrate the ground in the en-
closure in search of a bag of blood-and-
bone that has been temptingly left on
the surface; (4) to find out just how
long Sydneysiders will put up with the
desecration of their miserably-few park-
lands without squealing about it.
* * * ♦
“Ceg”: The last vacant block in the
street was at last built on, and in due
course a pair of newly-weds moved in.
One night, not long after, we heard noises
of distress and the sound of running
f ee f yhe feet turned in at my gate. At
fe £ f rord door J was confronted with the
... . . . , . , . . nvprcnat
bride in her night attire ana overcoat,
Great sobbing and a request to use the
phone ; she wanted the doctor urgently
f or her husband. When the phoning was
over I asked whether 1 could assist pend-
mg the quacks arrival. She then told
me that her husband had frightened the
life out of her by getting out of bed,
proceeding to the bathroom and standing
on his head in the empty bath. She said
he would neither move nor talk. I asked
whether she had tried turning on the
cold shower, but she said she would never
do that. Soon the doctor’s car was heard
approaching and she darted back. The
sequel? There wasn’t any. The patient
was seen going off to his work next
morning and the matter was never again
referred to.
“Now don't spill anything on the tablecloth."
“Nakh”:- For some reason or other
my district near Melbourne specialises in
tough old people. An old lady of 98
broke her leg and was admitted fo
hospital. She seemed very upset and a
nurse said: “What are you worrying
about so much? Your leg will soon be
better.” “Oh,” said the old lady, “this
will be the first time for fifty years that
my husband and my four sons have had
to cook for themselves.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“F.S.”: Speaking at a Melbourne
Gallery evening Sir Keith Murdoch said
that the trustees had • wanted to buy a
nude by Renoir, but the Felton Bequest
trustees had said that “Alfred Felton
would turn in his grave if his money was
used to buy it.” Hence, he said, late
recognition of new work had cost dearly.
Still, the trustees were not alone in their
failure to recognise the quality of Renoir.
Manet, who was his contemporary, told
a friend to tell Renoir to give up art as he
was no good at it. Goodness knows
why he said that; his own work and
Renoir’s have everything in common,
except subject-matter. Possibly his judg-
ment was psychologically determined,
through jealousy of a man who painted
nudes as living as his own. Renoir’s
nudes shocked his generation, who
thought they were crude and brutal, and
they would certainly have shocked Alfred
Felton. But there is no reason to suppose
that he would turn in his grave if he saw
one now. I presume his shade has kept
up with the modern movement, and most
moderns regard Renoir’s nudes as rather
sissy.
* * « •
“Bamekaw”: I’m not interested in
“Bo’s” patent braces (B. 13/8/’52), but
would like to know the reason for the
ban on flaunting trouser-harness in public.
First met it in my ’teens in North Queens-
land, where an employer of the old school
reluctantly agreed that the coat might be
shed at times, but that braces, if worn,
must not show. Have struck it at other
places since then. Is it a survival of Vic-
torian times, when snobbishness reasoned
that a man who could not afford a vest
to conceal his braces must be one of the
vulgar crowd? Or is it a hangover from
the prudish days when the word
“trousers” was forbidden in polite
company?
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Becks”: When a quiz contestant fell
down recently on a stock question about
the Seven Wonders of the World the
strangest thing about his failure was that
the one he missed—the tomb of Mausolus
—is the only one, apart from the
Pyramids, of which any parts are pre-
served. Mausolus was a Persian satrap
who made himself master of Caria, in
Asia Minor, in the fourth century b.c.,
with his capital at Halicarnassus, opposite
the Dodecanese Islands. On his death in
353 b.c. his widow, Artemisia, engaged
Greek architects to build him a magni-
ficent tomb, and the leading sculptors of
the day, Scopas, Leochares, Bryaxis and
Timotheus, to embellish it with friezes
and statuary, the edifice being surmounted
by a statue of Mausolus himself, 10ft.
high. The tomb appears to have survived
intact until the 13th century, when it was
destroyed by an earthquake. Much of the
sculptury was then transferred by the
Knights of St. John to the castle they were
building at Budrun, on the site of the
former capital. A little over a century
ago Sir Stratford Canning, British Ambas-
sador in Turkey, got permission from the
Sultan to recover these sculptures from
the ruins; they were taken to England
in 1857 and placed in the British Museum.
Last October a new gallery was opened
in the museum. Termed the Mausoleum
Room, it contains the statue of Mausolus,
other sculptures and portions of the tomb.
♦ * * *
“Chips”: The concrete gang knocked
off work and sat down to dinner. One
young fellow opened his bag, took a bite
each out of two of his sandwiches, then
threw them away, had a look at the others
and tossed them out saying “Ham! the
missus knows I don’t like ham.” Then
out came an apple ; two bites and it
joined the sandwiches, after which he
went down to the shop on the corner and
came back with two pies. One of the
older men asked him how he thought he
would get on when things got tough. He
replied “Whadder y’ mean, ‘Get tough'?
A man only Just manages to exist now.”
* ♦ * *
“Macann”: “Findy’s” failure (B.
27/8/’52) to find in the records of Mel-
bourne weather back to 1855 a sufficient
run of days with a little rain in them to
have enabled my friend to win three quid
backing a run of wets at a bob a day I
can only ascribe to one or other or both
of two possible explanations: (a) Sheer
patriotism ; {b) a hole in the rain-gauge,
possibly produced by (a).
* * * *
“El V.” on Australia’s most expensive
piece of writing:
Historians are wondering how the Magna
Carta, which the Commonwealth has bought
for £15,600, came to be in the little grammar
school at Bruton, in Somerset, where it naa
lain for 400 years. Bruton is a charming little
town, still with many ancient features ana
more ancient associations. Its old packnorse
bridge, only 3ft. wide, still stands. The gables
of St. Mary the Virgin and Sexey’s old bos-
pital, founded by a local ostler who went to
London and became Queen Elizabeth s aubi-
tor, strike the eye as you come to it from
Yeovil. The grammar school was founded in
1519, suppressed with the monasteries ana
revived again in the time of Edward VI. Its
founders might easily have brought the Magna
Carta. One, Richard Fitzjames, was Bishop ot
London, acted as a sort of vice-chancellor to
Oxford and sat as a commissioner to define tne
respective privileges of the university and tne
town. The other was his nephew, Sir John,
chief justice of King’s Bench, Trier of P et {h°“
to Parliament, the man who married on rercy
of Northumberland so that Henry VIII couia
marry his lady-love, Anne Boleyn; the ma
also who signed the impeachment of woisey,
helped to try Sir Thomas More and Fisher
and who was for years collector of the Koya
subsidies in Somerset. Again, it my
have come with some of the early u
Bohuns, or the Berkeleys, who have
been associated with the countryside for more
than a thousand years, and who translate
its names to London streets and squares. J»u
most probably of all it came from the Abbey.
At any rate, it has survived for 655 years, ana
it already has a distant link with Australi ,
along with those who sold it, since one of tn
Old Boys of Bruton Grammar School was no
other than William Dampier, the buccaneer,
hydrographer, naval captain and privateer wn
was round the Australian coasts more than o
years before Captain Cook. Schoolboys gazing
on the Commonwealth’s new acquisition,
sealed up in helium to make it imperishable,
will be able to reflect that it was most probably
seen and possibly handled by the pilot of tn
Duke privateer, which called in at Jua
Fernandez and rescued Alexander Selkirk, tne
original Robinson Crusoe.
RESEARCH.
(An effort to celebrate the ANZAAS conference of
scientists in Sydney, and ol the .Medical Oun.u.nce,
attended by 1200 doctors, in Melbourne, can hardly
ignore another congregation of researchers which has
attracted more public attention than either the doctors
or the scientists.)
Doctors in Melbourne, professors in Sydney
Dilate on migration, debate on the kidney;
They’ve only a fortnight or so to be clever,
But the Liquor Commission, it goes on for
ever,
Deserving the brush of a Rubens or Titian;
And had I a boule I’d toast the commission.
The surgical theatre leaves much more bare
Than the dermatological Folies Bergere;
The Folies Bergere has demure pulchritudity,
But the Liquor Commission shows masculine
nudity;
Nor doctor nor dancer can stage exhibitions
Of stripping complete as the Liquor
Commission’s.
i
Professors can lecture on kids’ secret gangs
And ponder the use of atomical bangs;
The Liquor Commission does better, and
gathers
The facts on the big secret gangs of the
fathers;
And nothing explodes with such terrible fission
As a secret brought into the Liquor
Commission.
Professors find flies that escape D.D.T.,
And a new Missing Link between monkeys
and me;
But there isn’t a fly of sufficient agility
To flee the commission’s net-making ability,
And missing links, lost to outside inquisition,
Are pretty quick found at the Liquor
Commission.
You twelve hundred doctors, you clever
professors,
Say, why would we rather read news of
transgressors?
Your lectures have force, your decisions have
gravity,
But never can charm us like human depravity:
No theses of scientists, cures of physicians.
Can ever deprive us of Liquor Commissions!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Lucius”: An actor in one of Sydney’s
Little Theatres strode on to the stage the
other night and declaimed lustily “This
town is full of lairs and tremendous grog-
artists!” Some up-to-the-minute drama
of city life, hot from the pen of a forth-
right 20th-century playwright? No, a
quote from the new translation of “The
Twins,” one of the best of the Roman
Plautus’s comedies. Written 2000 years
ago, it’s still topical.
3: $ $ #
“Doric”: Not so long ago I visited
Lynmouth (Eng.), which has since been
almost wiped out by floods in which,
among Others, two Australian girls were
drowned. In normal times a more
delightful spot would be hard to find. We
approached it from Exmoor, the “Lorna
Doone country,” down one of England’s
steepest roads, then walked along the
village with its fascinating shops—l
remember buying a box of plum-sized
strawberries —had a look at its scenic
treasure, Watersmeet, crossed the small
“It Was either this or counter-lunches ."
bridge over the river to see the little
torrents rushing along its stony bed, with
quaint old houses built straight up from
its high banks. Thence along the beach-
front with its fishing-boats, lobster-pots
and fishermen—the typical “old salts”
one reads of. Next a thrilling ride in a
funicular railway to Lynton, the twin
town at the top of the cliff, whence a
lovely view can be had of the little village
nestling below from the luxurious
Valley of Rocks Hotel. Lynmouth and
its surroundings are the loveliest part of
the North Devon coast.
* * * ♦
“Stweeler”: This month marks the
centenary of the canoe voyage made by
Capt. Francis Cadell from Swan Hill
to Lake Alexandrina to study the Murray
with a view to opening it up to steam-
navigation. Cadell was accompanied by
some diggers returning from Bendigo to
Adelaide, and “when they started the
Captain took the tiller, and laying his
revolver beside him, addressed his crew,
when they were fairly afloat, with the
words—‘Now, boys, I’m boss’.” Cadell
has left us a description of the rough-
and-ready means by which the canvas-
covering of the vessel was repaired on
the way downstream: “Whenever she
leaked we clapped the frying-pan on the
fire, and after cooking our mutton chops,
gave her a coating of grease, which was
at all times most effectual.”
* * * *
“Tandan”: In order to get rid of the
chief goodie, the baddies in a current
radio-serial set in Sydney have framed him
on a murder charge, and are gleefully
awaiting his hanging. I look forward
with excitement to the thrilling moment
when they discover that the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment is opposed to capital punishment.
* * * *
“Ground Wave”: Tell “Ahreno” (B.
16/7/’52) that, main-t’-gallant man in
Britannia or not, Stripey’s tally bow was
in the right position, and the Admiral
should have known it. Every recruit
entering the service is taught that the
bow sits over the left ear. It is only in
the safety of the train that takes him on
his first weekend leave and away from
the eagle and unsympathetic eyes of the
orderly-officer of the day and the master-
at-arms that the skin-tight jacket of civvy
serge, the 32in. bell-bottoms, the tiddly
collar and the 12in. tapes are donned.
Then the new cap-ribbon with the bow
bent around a threepenny-bit is moved
carefully over the left eye. This lasts
until the heat of the argument about
Chloe’s charms forces the cap flat-a-back,
and then the bow really boxes the
compass.
* * * ♦
“Pawang”: Tell “Tom” (B. 20/8/'52)
that if the historical Richard 111 wasn’t
hunchbacked while Shakspeare’s Richard
was, the error, if it exists, is not mine, but
the poet’s. I was talking about Shak-
speare’s Richard. Shakspeare wrote a
play, not a documentary.
* * * *
“Coalsmoke”: Sydney nearly had to
ration its gas during the recent cyclone
week, when heavy seas held up the
colliers which haul its gas-coal. A couple
of them were waiting, fully loaded, in
Newcastle; and as soon as the weather
eased they made a break for Sydney.
The newspapers talked about their
“hurried departure” and “hasty dash,”
and I pictured the little 60-milers tearing
through the seas something in the manner
of the Queen Elizabeth. Then I saw one
surge through the Heads into Sydney
Harbor. It was obviously in a desperate
hurry, a vessel with a mission. Vast drifts
of smoke rolled from the funnel, steam
was blowing off vigorously from the
safety, and the general impression was
that of the hero arriving just in time to
save the old family home. “Hasty dash,”
though, seemed a little complimentary ;
at top speed, the old tub was doing about
nine knots. s
* * * *
“Youanmi”; I knew Tony before the
war when he used to hawk ice-cream ; I
struck him again during the war when
he was babbling with the C.C.C.; and I
met him again afterwards when he
opened a rather flash tea-room in a
seaside suburb. It was a pretty decent
place—chrome-and-whatnot counters for
cigarettes, sweets, ice-cream and the like,
and a large area at the rear occupied by
polished tables and chairs for diners. I
dropped in on Tony for lunch the other
day and was surprised to see the eating
department cordoned off with a sign
“Closed owing to staff shortage.” “Surely
you can get staff these days, Tony,” I
said. “Oh, yes,” he told me. “I can
getta the staff all right. But I can no
afford to pay ’em no mo'e.”
$ * * *
“Ida D.”: 1 nave strong grounds for
believing “The Wild Colonial Boy” (B.
20/8/’52) to be an Irish immigrant. If
my father were still alive he would be
99 this month, and in my very young
days 1 remember his singing “The Boy”/
with great gusto and a pronounced
brogue ; he always said he “larnt it from
his Oirish relations and the station-
hands and stockmen on old Rosebrook
station, in the Cooma district.” Most of
them were Irish expatriates.
* * * *
“P.T.”: Inducements to attract men to
the fighting services figure prominently
in recruiting advertisements, but the
amenities offered today had their counter-
parts, even in the days of the crimp and
the pressgang. A poster displayed in
English ports only 10 years after
Trafalgar contained a sales-talk to
induce men to volunteer as members ot
J he “gLf S rial Jl?
bemg fitted out for a erase to Hahfax
Nova Scotia Every good man, the
poster said, isj almost carto m of being
made a r or getfing a snug
berth m Halifax dockyard. Those sign-
mg on were promised good quarters
afloat good treatment and an issue of
41b. of tobacco amonth Evcn I Tax was
tlve, y w In f that noS- nrosneefive
emphasised. In that port, prospective
recruits were informed a bushe of
potatoes could be bought for a shilling,
codfish for a biscuit and a glass of
swains grog foMwopence.
“Nakhoda”: We are no doubt in for
an epidemic of pseudo-Kon-tiki expedi-
Sons just as, after the publication of
Banfield’s book on Dunk Island, there
was a rush of no-hopers from all over the
world to acquire Barrier Reef glands and
become beachcombers. lan
weather stoTtri+he l&Ust 9*™
having read the Kon-tiki book he set out
to drift from Darwin to T .
case, however, there was a reason He
had no money and he wanted to see what
had happened to his pictures in Lon on.
The latest Kon-tiki-ites consisted of f e
young men, one an Australian, and
girl who set out to drift across the Me -
terranean on a 27ft raft in order to see
how they would get on together. They
know now. Their craft ran aground on
an island only six miles out Marseilles,
after . w 1 decided to auit •
a’oSbrid e
a umo b y . d
misgivings and only the Australian and
jhelkipper, a man from Ch.cago, decided
to * # *
“Taubada”: Lofty and another mate-
lot were crossing India by rail. As the
train was pulling out from a wayside
station Lofty saw a Tommy making a
frantic dash to board the rattler, so he
pulled the communication-chain, which,
instead of remaining snugly in its tube,
came away to the extent of a fathom or
so, and hung down untidily as a dead
give-away as the tiain shuddered to a
grinding stop. Not wishing to pay a 50-
rupee fine. Lofty and his mate hastily
shoved the incriminating chain back into
its tube, wedged it in place with cigarette-
butts and matches and then leaned,
innocently, out of the window as an
Indian railway official walked along the
track from the guard’s van. As the official
came towards them, Lofty s said
“He’s right on to us, and we haven t got
ten rupees, let alone fifty! ’ When the
guard stopped alongside their carriage
the sailors realised the game was up.
Then the railway bloke requested
courteously “Would you mind pulling that
lever down, please?” He pointed above
their heads to where a hitherto unnoticed
lever, about a yard long, was sticking out
like a car trafficator, at right-angles to the
carriage. Speechless, they complied,
“Thank you,” said the guard, and returned
to his van.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A public-opinion poll was
taken in America on the question “Do
you believe in freedom of speech?” and
97 per cent, of those consulted said they
did, 1 per cent, said they didn’t and
2 per cent, were undecided. The same
crowd of citizens were subsequently
asked: /‘Should Fascists and Communists
be allowed to hold meetings to express
their views in this COU ntry?” Twenty-
three per cent said “Y es ,” 72 per cent,
, said » No ” and 5 per cent d j dn ’t know
wbat to t hi n k. All the difference between
a p r j nc iple and its application,
„ * * *
«e*„ nfnrd ». ran . t nn ; tP make out
author Nevile Shute, who seems
absorbed the Australian atmo-
sphere pretty well on the whole, acquired
P not Ton .that our favorite expletive is
dr H is characters use it inces-
V as an exdanituion but
, > affirmative where the
Australian would be far more
... . b t retort « Y ou bet!” or “My
oath ,„ 1 b ore with it throughout A Town
Like 'Alice, being unfamiliar with the col-
loquialisms of the Centre, but now read-
h Cq with its Victorian
f tj j f , T mus t protest. Should Mr.
Shute B’yisit 8 ’ yisit Queensland> though, he could
str jk e an oddity j haven’t yet encountered
in his nove i s , the ending of sentences
wiih/'buL’; For
pirn ’ don .&° 00 , °, e ‘. tb
any Bananalander enlighten me as to the
origin of this odd habit of
„ Qver 60 years ago a wind .
f &t 0am y ru (RZ .), where
the white building-stone comes from. She
had no outgoing cargo, and the skipper,
& of stQne Qn the foreshore
apparently belonging to nobody, loaded it
as PP baHast y and s J ile § to South Africa to
p - ck up & cargQ The stone
was tossed
asbore at j) ur h a n and lay there for years
a huiWer one day commandeered it
and erected a dwelling. That explains
how jt j s that Qamaru House came to be
ibed over building in a Durban
et
’ # * *
“ Wack f or d”: Years ago when I was
teaching in a small country town I was
at a loose-end one night the current
recipient of my courtly favors being
unavailable, so I decided to ring an
couple of months my reception was icy,
and I received what is now styled the
“brush-off.” Just as a click from the other
end told me she had hung up a voice cut
in with “That goes for me, too.” It was
only then I remembered that my local
love was on evening duty at the exchange.
CONFLICTING OPINIONS.
“There is the type of woman who develops a poor
opinion of her doctor if his advice or diagnosis
conflicts with the varibus superstitions, preconceived
notions and old-wives’ tales she nourishes.”
—Medical Journal.
“You know, Mrs. Willis, my doctor,
He must be a queer sort of man.
1 said my bronchitis
And Ted’s tonsilitis
And Dad’s gastric pains all began
Because of our ’oroscope-readin’ —
And they’re always right, as you know —
And that you had been tellin’
Me Joan’s knee was swellin’
Because she wore heels that were low.
“Well, he laughed, but he didn’t say nothin’.
It’s ignorance, that’s what it is.
You know, Mrs. Willis,
The fever our Phyllis
Picked up not long after your Liz?
Well, would you believe it, he reckoned
That fever was caused by some germs.
Now, that’s just plain silly.
My sister’s boy Billy
Was sick just like ’er —’e had worms!
“An’ remember the time, Mrs. Willis,
When Jim ’ad them boils on ’is neck?,
E ’ad just on a dozen,
Like Arthur, ’is cousin,
An’ my gawd, ’e did look a wreck!
The doc. said 4 Ts blood’s out of order.’
Did you ever ’ear any such bunk!
I know ’ow ’e got ’em,
For I smacked ’is bottom —
Too much ginger-beer that he’d drunk.
“My doctor, y’ know, Mrs. Willis,
Ain’t so clever. You take all them pains
I get when I’m walkin’.
It’s no use ’im talkin’
About these ’ere varicose veins.
My Aunt Kate got-pains just like I get;
A stroke took ''er off. So y’ see
The doc.’s only messin’
Things up by just guessin’,
Like blokes with the thimble-an’-pea.
’E told me fried food, bein’ greasy,
Is crook f’r me gall—well, that shows,
With all of ’is learnin’,
An’ all that ’e’s earnin'
’Ow little this quack really knows.
r gall-bladder can’t be affected
Unless there are spots on the sun
In early September
And late in November,
Or if one of y’r stockin’s have run!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
&
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
'
.OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3| ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
ẅ
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
BITTER SUGAR
by B. HARRIS
IT was fully appreciated in
the R.A.A.F. that if your
engines were faultless, your
petrol pure, your airframe
perfect, all electrical, hydraulic
and air accessories in good order,
your crew competent, the weather
kindly and the enemy inaccurate,
you could rest as easy on an
operational flight as you could
on your bed at home; and, as
far as this was in its power to
accomplish, the R.A.A.F. took
pains to ensure that these condi-
tions applied for every flight.
All aircraft in service were
tried and proved types and
machines into which all neces-
sary modifications and additions,
some of them found necessary
by the death of a man or two,
were promptly incorporated.
The maintenance left nothing to
be desired, though the most
thorough inspection can miss an
obscure engine fault or fatigue
in a metal member of the air-
frame. Crews were the best
available; bad weather could
mostly be avoided ; and even in
the matter of the enemy, who
could not be avoided, there were
means of ensuring a fair degree
of safety against him. But there
was always the possibility of
another factor entering into the
situation, as it did in Area X,
Certain flying elements of the
R.A.A.F. moved into Area X as
soon as strips were made avail-
able by the Airfield Construction ’
men who landed with the A.I.F.
Among these flying elements
were Terry Biltmore, a tall,
strong young pilot with the face,
skin, hair and smile of a'female
film-star, and his wireless
navigator, Fred Lomis, an over-
grown ex-jockey, whose dark
visage of Red Indian features
was set on a Grecian base, Terry
Biltmore, for all his pretty face,
and the attempts by droves of
ladies in every Australian State
to pamper and spoil him, was as
tough as anyone he would be
likely to meet in his walk of life ;
and the five-foot Fred Lomis,
grown fat now by three or four
stone during the few years since
he had exploited the rails run at
the turn into the straight, was,
despite his tough countenance, a
perfect gentleman until he was
forced to be offensive. They
were an ill-assorted pair, quite
inseparable, who had seen some
remarkable times together.
FOR one thing, they were the
only known dinghy-
survivors of an obscure control
fault in a certain type of opera-
tional aircraft which, in its
imperfect state, sent a number
of confident boys to sudden
death. Crews were training on
this type at a big Australian
station when an occasional air-
craft began to be lost without
trace at sea, or without warning
on land.
At first the losses were attri-
buted to the inexperience of the
pilots and the fact that the type
was not particularly easy for a
beginner to handle. The initial
operational training was intensi-
fied, so that each pilot was given
an excessive amount of dual-
flying with an instructor before
being sent out alone and special
pep-talks on safety-first; but
planes continued to be lost,
including one crewed by Bilt-
more and Fred Lomis, which
inexplicably dived into coastal
water from a low altitude, the
crew remarkably surviving
almost uninjured in a dinghy
which had burst undamaged
from its housing.
Terry Biltmore could not
sxplain the mishap, but he felt
fiiat his elevator had failed. All
aircraft of the type were
grounded, pending exhaustive
examination of every one of
them; but nothing came to light,
There was .no explanation other
than pilot-error; in Terry Bilt-
more’s case, the mistake of fly-
ing too low over the sea; but
almost immediately on the
aircraft’s taking the air again, a
veteran pilot converting to the
type dived in from a thousand
feet in the circuit area.
Sabotage, which had always
been widely allowed-for, was
now strongly suspected, and
emergency counter-measures put
into operation ; but an examina-
tion of the mangled wreckage
revealed the culprit, a small but
major control-fault in the tail-
assembly. The elevator
trimming-tab, a small surface of
metal hinged to the elevator and
adjustable from the cockpit in
order to trim the aircraft to fly
no-hands, had seized from the
failure of a slender rod attached
to it, causing the aircraft to
become momentarily uncontrol-
lable. The modification rendered
necessary by this discovery made
the trimming-tab perfectly safe ;
but in many a pilot’s mind there
lingered a distrust of the type.
Terry Biltmore seemed happy
enough in one, but it was notice-
able that when he made an
exterior examination of his air-
craft before boarding her, he
always looked carefully at the
trimming-tabs. However, since
the mishap he had flown mostly
this type, and he was still flying
it in Area X.
'"P ERRY’S strip, like many an
i island strip, was close to the
sea ; and take-off in one direction
put an aircraft over the water
almost before its undercarriage
had fully retracted. This was
actually no disadvantage, except
perhaps for an occasional bit of
bumpiness over the shallows, for,
in the event of a much-feared
mishap immediately after take-
off, water would be no harder to
hit than a mass of jungle. But
somehow there seems something
absolutely final about the plunge
of a fast-moving aircraft into
the cool, dispassionate sea.
One morning a shell- and
rocket-laden Beaufighter, under-
carriage in and making good
speed in preparation for soaring
up away from the gleaming
green water, suddenly spun over
on her back and dived with a
mighty splash and roar far out
into the bay, carrying her crew
to the bottom in deep water,
where it would take much time
and effort to locate and salvage
her. Witnesses were of the
opinion that a motor had failed,
and certain overconscientious
fitters had qualms; but such
accidents happened, particularly
on take-off, and probably
nobody was to blame. There
were hurried heart-searchings,
various inquiries and examina-
tions, which were still proceed-
ing late in the afternoon, when
another Beaufighter, roaring out
on an urgent strafing mission in
support of the A.1.F., followed
her unlucky sister into the drink
in almost the same manner and
the same place, leaving scarcely
a trace of herself on the
surface.
The Beaufighter unit promptly
went into a flat-spin, and pre-
pared to work late into the night.
One such prang may be an
unavoidable accident; another
could possibly be an unfortunate
coincidence, but it might be
something more sinister and
avoidable. With lives and air-
craft worth tens of thousands of
pounds at stake, no effort would
be spared to avoid a repetition
of the disasters; and it was
imperative that the unit continue
to function effectively, so that no
time was to be lost.
Next morning Terry Biltmore
and Fred Lomis were up before
dawn in readiness for a malarial-
spraying flight over territory just
won by the A.I.F. Such a
mission was always made before
sunrise, but owing to a small
fault in the equipment they were
held up for some time while a
fitter made an adjustment. As
yet there was in the unit only
one aircraft fitted with the
auxiliary tank from . which it
sprayed a mixture of oil and
D.D.T. as it made parallel tracks
at tree-top height to cover the
area to be treated; so, as there
could be no question of taking
another aircraft out, it was a
matter of waiting till the
particular plane was serviceable,
As I stood in the lightening
darkness with Terry and Fred,
idly watching the fitter working
expertly in the bright gleam of
a trouble-lamp, Terry said: “I
always had the ambition to fly
Beaufighters, and I never have,
Yesterday, I must admit, the
ambition was rather dimmed
temporarily, and this morning I
believe I’d settle for a bull-
dozer.”
‘‘Don’t condemn her on two
bad performances,” said Fred,
“For years she’s proved as
reliable as this crate.” He indi-
cated the spraying aircraft,
“Which,” said Terry, “once
had its own bad days. No, I
mean this morning only. To-
morrow my ambition will prob-
ably be as strong as ever. Today,
unless something turns up, you
won’t see Beaufighters tearing
off in all directions to boost
morale. There’s something up.
The Beaufighter is too good an
aircraft for two to go in like
that for no good reason. But
then, I admit, I am by experience
and perhaps by nature pre-
disposed to take such a view.”
“For once, anyhow,” said
Lomis, “I’m quite happy enough
to fly in this type.”
INDTCATING that his task was
' completed, the fitter hurried to
drain the petrol-cocks, testing the
liquid for impurities in his hand.
while Terry removed his control
chocks, had a good look at his
elevators and climbed into his
seat to make ready. He must
have been looking things over
very thoroughly (and indeed I
could see that he made an
unusually complete test of the
responses of his ailerons,
elevators and rudder), and it was
quite some time before I saw
that he was busy priming. A
really imaginative observer might
have afterwards felt that Terry
had some premonition of
disaster, but perhaps, after all, his
check was merely a routine one.
At last the whirr of his starter
sounded; his port airscrew
revolved jerkily two or three
times, and, with a choking
cough, his port motor roared to
life, followed shortly by his star-
board motor. Then very
thoroughly he ran his motor up
in turn in a lengthy thorough
check, testing his revs, his oil,
his feed and tire rest. Then he
settled himself comfortably in his
seat, adjusted his safety-belt and
his earphones and waved the
chocks away, again turning to
watch the play of his control
surfaces as the fitter obeyed his
signal. Finally, with a cheery
wave to me, he taxied slowly
to the edge of the revetment,
revved his starboard motor to
turn on to the taxiway, and,
straightening up neatly, trundled
away noisily towards the land-
ward end of the strip; for, with
a sea-breeze blowing, he was to
take-off over the water.
By this time dawn had given
way to clear daylight, and, as I
walked towards the flight-office,
I reflected that Terry would
need to waste no time if he
wanted to beat the sun. The
flight-area of our unit, whose
operations were confined to day-
light hours, was just awakening
under the disillusioned gaze of a
set of tired-looking guards. A
few of the early-duty crew were
sauntering about as if idly seek-
ing something to do, and a bevy
of native rouseabouts were
happily and vigorously setting
about their labors.
Whether these rouseabouts
were Javanese, Malayans or just
natives I could not determine.
The Japs had impressed Javanese
and Malayans, among other
races, into service in these parts,
and to a comparative newcomer
many southern Asiatic races
looked very much alike. I sat
on the step of the flight-office,
gazing over the jungle at the
clear-blue, cloudless sky, enjoy-
ing the early-morning freshness
which would very soon
LEGEND.
When they fled, taking their beloved
greenstone with them adze, mere and
fishing charm, polished ear - pendants
made of
splinters and fragments—they came
to a land between the mountains, a high
land
completely without trees. Behind them and
on either side rose the ridges of mother
rock
rising like great black whales
sporting in an ocean of stones.
The only grass was .tussock, harsh and
sapless,
through which the wind ran
always in a hurry. And the grass tossed
like plumes in the hair of warriors.
Over the plain they came in procession,
the strong in front, the weak
flagging. “This is a bad place to die,
O brothers and sisters, but it is better
to choose the manner of our death.
“This land is meatless. It has no flesh
on its bones, the tegument sags
between rib and rib and the skin
N.Z.
is stretched and dry. We are meat
and we are hunted.”
So they came to a lake and into it they cast
their greenstone, inherited treasure, which
was
casting their life away, identity
of the person, and the name of the tribe,
giving it perpetual burial, offering it
into the eternal keeping of ancestors.
In this burnished land, where the high alps
fly feather plumes above eternal snows,
a lake reflects the peaks and lower sky
when prone upon its banks you lie
and hear the little waves munching
grass roots in the brown peat.
Do not ask why it shines
like a jewel, a liquid emerald, green
as no green ever was, and no green
around, or overhead, when you stand
below the peaks and look back down at it.
I have told you. There is
no other explanation. Where trampers go,
bent under packs as once you carried
a sleeping child, my sister,
remember myth and stone
outlast the fragile life of flesh and bone.
W. HART-SMITH.


HE HAS A
RUPTU
w
, . . Birr iik
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKKEKK
No Pads —
No Springs
The KBO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE .
barkerb DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3b), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Missing Friend.
WOULD THEOPHILUS BENNETT, also
known as “BEN” BENNETT, aged about
64 years, or anyone knowing of his
present whereabouts or decease, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zealand.
HARGAHS «•»*■«
ON FENCE POSTS, RAILINGS,
BRIDGE DECKING, % BUILDING TIMBER!
m
4SP:
/
m
m
mm-
-8
ssssss
Start saving
money now
with a Morgans!
Fences! Yards! Sheds! Bridges! Cut your own timber
quickly and easily for all of them with a Hargans Mobile
Power Saw. With a Hargans you can fell trees where other
mobile saws cannot operate; then cut billets, rip them into
slabs of any size for fencing posts, square gate- w
posts, strainers and droppers—bevel cutting the
tops and edges if you wish. , , .
You can slot and groove posts and rails for yards and rip
timber into slabs for bridge decking and boards (even
four-by-two’s) for sheds.
Get a Hargans and start saving money now.
Easy terms • Speedy service • Ample spares
ŵ
H 54.84
Sole distributors:
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
Malloeh House. 10-14 Young Street. Sydney.
Branches at: Newcastle, Lhmore, Wagga, Hay and Melbourne
AGENTS IN ALL STATES
MAIL TO-DAY!
(Mail this coupon to address at left)
Please send me free brochure of photographs
showing how to fell trees, cut fence posts, etc.,
with a Hargans.
NAME
ADDRESS
> SB _
deteriorate into depressing
sultriness.
Suddenly, from the direction
of the Beaufighter flight-area,
there came the sound of loud
shouting, followed quickly by a
ragged volley of rifle-fire. The
guards in front of me instinc-
tively moved their positions as
they blinked the sleep out of their
eyes. I sat still, watching and
listening, my thoughts reviewing
the prangs of the previous day.
There were more loud cries and
then a long silence. The guards
presently began to harangue each
other about various matters,
from bomb-happiness to cracker-
night ; but I sat still, listening
and watching, unaccountably
oppressed by the heavy silence
from the Beaufighter area.
In the distance there was a
full-throated roar as Terry
began to run up his motors on
the edge of the strip. As the
second roar died down to a low-
pitched hum, there came more
confused shouting, then the
violent revving of a motor near
at hand from the direction of
the shouts. Terry’s motors
droned out again as he moved
towards the middle of the strip.
He was a quarter of a mile away,
well out of sight behind thick
jungle which skirted the strip at
that point, but my attention was
so keyed-up that, by the sounds
which came to my ears, I
followed his aircraft to the
middle of the strip, heard it,
slew round and line up ready
for the take-off run.
And just at that moment a
jeep travelling at terrific speed
came into sight round the bend
in the taxiway. Sensing trouble,
I ran to the open space near the
flight-office ; the jeep came to a
screaming halt beside me and a
highly-agitated, red-faced man
sprang to the ground, fairly
dancing as he yelled: “Where’s
your plane?”
“Just about to go,” I
answered.
“Stop him,” he shouted, as he
ran towards the office. “His
petrol! We just caught them—
we caught three b s sugaring •
our tanks!”
J BEAT him to the phone. The
' exchange was on the alert, but
I thought the tower would never
answer.
I heard the rising crescendo
of Terry’s motors as they
strained to overcome the inertia
of nine tons of protesting,
streamlined mass ; and the tower
did not reply.
“What can I do? What can
I do?” cried an impotent voice
in my disengaged ear,
I listened to the rich, threshing
roar of the motors as they
attained their fierce take-off revs,
the flailing airscrews exerting a
laboring pull of two-thousand-
plus horsepower on the aircraft
whose momentum and rate of
acceleration increased alarmingly
at every heart-beat. Then there
was a sudden crackle in the
telephone receiver, and an
unconcerned voice said “Hullo.”
“Stop that plane!” I cried.
Her petrol is doped!”
The tower did not wait to ask
by whose authority or anything
else. It dropped the telephone
and I heard it calling urgently
into its microphone:
“Aircraft taking - off stop
immediately! Your petrol is
doped”—over and over again,
and even while it spoke it began
to fire red Verey charges across
the strip,
I knew the Verey cartridges
would be of no avail, for the
aircraft had already passed the
tower and a pilot taking-off does
not look behind him. However,
there was still plenty of strip left
for Terry, if he only heard the
tower’s warning, to lay off his
power and pull up in good
order; but for some reason he
did not hear.
With the frenzied radio calls
beating in urgent waves all round
it, the aircraft inexorably
accelerated to a point beyond
which I felt all hope was lost;
then, its tail straining to be off,
it lifted itself majestically into
the clear air. It was going away
from us, and by now its forward
speed could be scarcely detected
so that it appeared to be rising
slowly as if it were being hauled
up on a rope.
With the phone still in my
hand, and the tower’s voice still
ringing in my ear with its
reiterated “Aircraft just air-
borne —return at once!” I asked
“What happened?”
“Three natives were caught
funnelling burnt sugar into our
Beaufighters. They tried to run
for it, and our guards mowed
them down,”
“They may not have touched
this aircraft,” I suggested hope-
fully.
“Quite likely,” replied my
companion. “They were Malays,
I think,” he added irrelevantly.
Now I strained my ears as I
heard a thin voice over the wire:
“Aircraft to tower. Wilco.
I’m turning back.”
THE aircraft, which was now
well up and out to sea, made
as if to turn to port, and, in
doing so, seemed to go into a
violent side-slip. Then she made
a wide, shallow turn, and, as she
faced us, it was obvious that
Terry had lost one motor and
had gingerly turned into the
good one. His starboard prop,
was feathered, but his port
motor sounded healthy as it
struggled to do the work of two.
What we had not seen owing to
our distance and direction from
it was the superb piece of
airmanship which had instan-
taneously sprung to retrieve the
equilibrium of the hard-climbing
aircraft when the furious thrust
of one of its airscrews had sud-
denly ceased and which, without
appreciable loss of height, had
swiftly trimmed the craft and
calmly turned it back towards
the strip. As the plane
straightened up at about three-
hundred feet, the roar of its good
motor coming plainly to us on
the sea-breeze, I heard Terry’s
voice as a tiny and distant but
clear sound in my receiver:
“Aircraft to tower. My star-
board motor’s dead. I’m coming
round to land.”
“Brother,” said the tower,
high tension in its voice, “I don’t
want to frighten you, but don’t
come round. Land with the
breeze on the emergency strip.
Over.”
“Roger,” said Terry. “Coming
straight in.”
As the aircraft changed direc-
tion slightly to implement this
decision, I heard the tower
calling loudly:
“Crash - wagon, run to
emergency strip immediately.
Crash-boat, stand by aircraft
approaching emergency strip
from the sea.”
Then, as if it could contain
its curiosity no longer, even in
this dire emergency, it asked me
through the phone:
“What was the full score about
the juice?”
Even as I quickly explained,
I saw the crash-boat nosing out
from the shore.
“The rotten b s! ” the
tower said and left the phone for
other duties.
“They’ll make it! ” said a voice
at my elbow. “They'll just
about make it!”
As I stared at Terry’s aircraft,
which seemed to be hovering
maddeningly in the one spot, its
feathered airscrew a clear, mute
witness of the hateful work of
the late I fancied I
heard the tense murmur of an
excited leger-crowd as Fred
Lomis approached in the most
thrilling race of his life ; and I
became aware that the flight-
area seemed to be teeming with
men, come abruptly from
nowhere, who stood about on
things, craning their necks and
urging the aircraft home. There
were many tight smiles, for by
now the plane seemed almost in
a position to float in.
But in the instant that my
attention was partly diverted,
there was a loud, short sigh from
the crowd as the sound of the
aircraft’s engine abruptly splut-
tered and died ; and, in a most
spectacular display, the aircraft
rolled slowly before spinning
violently into the water not more
than three-hundred yards from
the shore, leaving on the surface
a bubbling circle of white water
towards which a sleek crash-boat
madly raced.
BOTH Terry Biltmore and
Fred Lomis survived, as
usual, though Terry was to be
permanently frustrated in his
ambition to fly Beaufighters, and
Fred was to spend even the
Victory Celebrations in con-
valescence. The trusty crate had
burst asunder in places on
impact, providentially spewing
out its mangled occupants for
the crash-boat to pick up. And,
with the sudden demise of the
burnt-sugar boys, no more air-
craft were tampered-with on that
strip._
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.A.S.: If that is what going out into
the garden does to you, we suggest
that you stay indoors K.5.F.8.:
A poor crow F.H.F.: Humble
apologies accepted, but not the verse.
H.W.: Heavy-handed 0.P.:
“Handicap Race” didn’t seem to get
anywhere... .E.L.: “The Fit” well-
told, but hardly fitting R.C.:
Awkward child might go elsewhere,
Old Cashmere: Well, you’re this
far. But the question still remains,
“Where do I go from ’ere?”;-r
I’m on tli’ track a-drovin’
With th’ horse-bells ringin’ clear.
And I ask meself a-rovin’
Where do I go from ’ere?
Lost away out yonder
Where th’ desert sands are bare
I sits me down and ponder,
Where do I go from ’ere?
On a buckin’ filly
Or a rootin’, tootin’ steer
Me thoughts are awful silly,
Where do I go from ’ere ?
Way down in th’ “big-smoke,”
Lookin’ mighty like a lair.
But I’m just a rovin’ bush bloke —
Where do I go from ’ere?
At a pub a-drinkin’
Gin, whisky, rum or beer,
Again I find I’m thinkin’
Where do I go from ’ere?
Makin’ love and kissin’
She’s a-callin’ me “My dear,”
But to me there’s somethin’ missin'—
Where do I go from ’ere?
In a bed I’m lyin’,
Feelin’ sick and mighty queer.
If I’m a-really dyin’
Where do I go from ’ere?
M.H.: A run-of-tho-mill nos-
talgic verse E.P.: We shudder
at the prospect W.D.: The
answer is “No” M.M.: Re-
duce to ashes “Lines on a Fire”
: You are the youngest poet,
Michael, who has knocked at our
door for many a long year. Give
yourself another-ten years... .D.G.:
Just missed... .M.L.R.: So many try
to be funny without succeeding, and
so many succeed without trying—
what a waste! For you,
in exchange, a story from the late
C. N. Baeyertz’s Treasure Store : A
millionaire met an old school-friend,
and took him home to dinner, and
asked how he was getting on. By
degrees the friend admitted that his
wife was in the cemetery, his boy in
jail and his daughter on the streets.
“Never mind,” the millionaire said.
“Life can still be sweet for you.”
The friend said, “No; I’ve just lost
my job; the bank’s selling my house
up, and” The millionaire pulled
the bellrope. The butler appeared.
“Take him away!” the millionaire
said. “He’s breaking my heart”....
R.D.H.: It’s such a tall story, and
we’re so short of space T.P.0.:
Thanks for the confidences —not a
word of them will we betray.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Baroona”; “A handle for a post-hole
shovel?” the storekeeper’s wife echoed,
“No, we never stock them. Nobody in
this district ever digs a post-hole.”
Rather dazed at this —in a settled farm-
ing district —I was told firmly that a local
man does all this work on contract with
a post-hole digger.
* * ♦ ♦
“Salmon Gums”: They’re talking of
building a new bridge across the Don-
nelly River at Manjimup (W.A.), and to
do it they’ll have to remove an old bridge
which one man threw across the
75ft. gap half a century ago. It’s a single-
span bridge, and the bearers and cross-
arms are lumped together in one stick,
which was growing conveniently on the
bank until Walter Giblett dropped it
“Help! The robot from Mars has got me!”
straight across the river and put a deck-
ing on it. The first traffic over it was a
heavy wagon drawn by a full bullock-
team—a neat piece of driving, since there
was only a few inches clearance on each
side. It takes a big tree to bridge 75ft.
and carry heavy traffic, but they’ve got
big trees down there. There’s a story
which is accepted in the district and could
be true, that one of the earliest settlers
lived with his wife and family in a hollow
fallen karri. That’s the yarn. And there
was another karri that measured 51ft.
around at 6ft. from the ground. That’s
a fact. *
“Lizard”: Bill, the old boundary-rider,
was like most of his kflad: as set in his
ways as a civil servant, with an addiction
to endless talk when he came to the head-
station for his rations, but of oyster-like
taciturnity when in his natural element.
One day I, his boss, unsaddled my horse
in his territory and spread my blankets
under a coolibah at the 26-mile water-
hole. The hole was fcalf a mile long;
there were another SOD square miles of
the property. Bill rodfe up just as I got
comfortably settled. He took one look
at me, mumbled something, didn’t return
my greeting, and rode his horse to the
other end of the hole, and on the oppo-
site side, before he dfcmounted and un-
saddled his packhorse. Next time he
came to the head-station he slung his job.
I knew what was wrong with him: his
skin was cracking for a spree. Billy didn't
wait for me to ask him what was wrong;
he went for me. The gist of his complaint
was why, with a hole that length, with
all those other square miles in which to
pick a camp, I’d gone and taken the tree
which he habitually used as his when at
the 26-mile? But ho ran true to form,
as usual —when his jag was up he came
back for his job, and got it.
* * * •
“P.1.P.”: Browsing through some
recent scientific findings by learned
American gents, I was jolted into a state
of resentful shock to rtad that our faithful
ally, the dog, rates in the moron class for
intelligence compare*! with other less
popular animals. This was a bitter blow
to a lifelong admirer of the hound, but
worse was to follow. Not only is he a
comparative dill, blit he’s color-blind.
Instead of appearing .to my devoted slave
as an idol of godlike stature, as I had
imagined, I learn that I am merely a
powerful, individual smell housed in a
grey, ill-defined, shadowy shell. When
the tike has a bad cold in the nose I
scarcely exist at ali As the last straw
the same scientists have debunked a
cherished yarn, one of many passed on
through the years, about an old-timer of
other days named Paddy and his
legendary dog Mick. They lived alone
together, enjoyed mutual affection, and
Mick became the kind of dog old hands
love to talk about. One of their tricks
put Mick in the top class for canine
sagacity. Paddy always spoke to some
unseen third person and never directly to
Mick. “Where the hell did I put that
Bully?” he’d grumble, “A man can’t
find a thing in this place. If there was a
decent flamin’ dog around he’d soon hunt
it up for me.” This would be Mick’s cue
and he’d spring Into action, search the
shack till he found the missing paper, and,
with much tail-wstgging, duly deliver it.
Ancient narrator® usually add at this
point that Mick could be sidetracked by
anything colored red, and that Paddy
would sometimes trick him with a false
clue. And now the scientists inform
me that Miok was color-blind! Being
the product of a newer age, I must believe
the savants. However, the old hands will
fiercely contest the point and will quote
the story o( Mick and the Bully as
absolute, undeniable proof that it’s the
scientists who are in the moron class and
probably color-blind as well.
* * * ♦
“BamekaW”: Tradition, joined to
Romanticism, is a curious thing. The
original Robin Hood, if he ever existed,
must have been a smelly, unwashed
ruffian, since the lauded life in Sherwood
Forest afforded little opportunity for
personal hygiene or daily changes. Scott
and his imitators made him the Ideal
Outlaw. Kids of today have, through
the influence of a more powerful medium
than Scott’s novels, taken to their
hearts the equally sweat - stained
American cowboy, and this hero-worship
has been adroitly capitalised. If Dad
chooses to go without a new suit, he can
dress-up Sonny in a complete copy
of his hero’s rigout, even to a tin star
to pin on his chest. Seems a pity our
Australian stockmen did not tote guns to
pot off a few escaped convicts or
inoffensive blacks ; a pity too that he did
not affect a more flamboyant style of
"Now, now!"
dress. The Six-gun Man from Snowy
River, suitably attired, might have been
able to hold his own even with Hopalong
Cassidy.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Old Bushman”: In my day in
western N.S.W. I would have called the
acquisitive “Macquarie” (B. 13/8/’52) a
“tea-leaf,” not a bower-bird. Often
wonder if the term is still in use. And,
talking about the old four-wheeled horse-
wagon one used to see rotting on the
outskirts of western towns, in the last
few years they have mostly been bought
up and towed to outlying creeks to make
sheep-bridges. For this purpose Falkiners,
of Boonoke, bought dozens at a few quid
a time.
* ♦ * ♦
“Old-timer”: There had been a long
dry spell, killers practically disappeared,
mutton went off the menu and was
replaced by corned-beef and tinned-dog
embellished with spuds and pickles. This
had been going on for about three months
when Pocketknife and Big Fleming went
off together on their annual fortnight’s
holiday. “Where y’ goin’?” we asked,
“Any place where we can get a feed
without corned hash and pickles,”
snorted Fleming. “Me, too,” Pocket-
knife asserted. “Much more of this tucker
an’ a man’ll be impounded as a stray
bullock.” They went. Subsequently we
learned that they fell upon Melbourne,
wallowed in its beer for a day or two,
then started on a picnic among the cafes.
With their ears back they went for oysters,
chicken, scallops, stewed peaches, mutton-
bird, asparagus soup, omelettes, fish
dishes, cutlets, ham and so forth, and in
between eating leaned over bars with
beers in their hands and pondered what
to try next. On the tenth day they were
in a Flinders-street cafe. Fleming eyed
the menu rather unenthusiastically. Then
he started, looked again, said “Hey,
Tom!” and pointed to an item. Came a
waitress. “Corned beef and carrots for
two, miss,” they chorused. “An’ have
y’ got any pickles?”
♦ * ♦ •
“Horseless H.”: No one admires the
aboriginal explorer Jackey-Jackey (correct
spelling) more than I, and his funeral
oration over his brave and unfortunate
leader, Edmund Kennedy—“and I caught
him as he fell back, and held him, and
then I turned around myself and cried”
—are to me the finest words ever spoken
by any abo. But surely “O.K. Lee” (B,
13/8/’52) doesn’t really believe that
Kennedy, a man who had surveyed half
western Victoria, and who was later
second in charge with Mitchell, was
guided to Escape River by lackey? Why,
just prior to his death Kennedy pointed
out Albany Pass across the estuary to this
faithful black, where “a schooner was
waiting them.” Yet notwithstanding this
the wounded native, when making his way
alone to the schooner, was, in his own
words, bushed for a day and a half. Ex-
plorers used natives as guides and scouts,
for which work they were invaluable.
And, although good bushmen by reason of
their inherent training and observation,
on the right day in the right place abos
will get slewed with the best of people.
Out brumby-shooting in the Gulf country
once, in pouring rain with night coming
on, I left it to three black stockmen to
lead me back to the camp. They had no
idea where it was, and as a result I spent
two awful nights wet to the skin standing
by a campfire all night.
♦ * * *
“Jasper”: Strangest example of static
electricity I encountered concerned a
complaint by a car-owner that reception
on his radio was intermittently marred by
static interference. One day it was there,
next day it was not, so that normal
wind- or wheel-static could be ruled out
as possible causes. I eventually found that
trouble occurred only when the driver
was wearing a particular blue-serge suit;
the cause was traced to the constant rub-
bing of the fabric on the leather uphol-
stery while the car was in motion, build-
ing up a static charge which, in a series
of minute spark-discharges, was picked up
by the receiver and amplified.
* * * ♦
“Harbel”; The dog, a big cattle-bitzer,
came from nowhere, shot across the rural
road and dived at a white Leghorn rooster
that was doing a spot of fossicking on an
open paddock next to a small cottage.
At the last possible second the chook
looked up, saw his danger, and leapt into
full stride. His effort was highly com-
mendable, but he was giving away too
much weight. I saw he was doomed even
as I grabbed a handful of clods and
rushed to the rescue, hollering and pelt-
ing as I charged. There was a sudden
flurry, a terrified squawk, a cascade of
feathers, then a canine yelp as, for the
first time in my life, 1 succfieded in hitting
the target I aimed at. The murderer
had departed and I was surveying the
corpse when Annie Oakley’s big sister,
complete With gun, arrived breathless
from the house. An urgent task was
obviously to convince her that I didm
own the dog. It wasn’t easy. Satisfied
at last —if a trifle disappointed—the lady
turned her attention to the deceased. We
were going to eat him on Sunday,” she
mourned. “Well, there’s no reason why
you couldn’t eat him now,” 1 pointed
out. Horror spread across her freckled
face. “What, after he died a violent
death! ” she exclaimed. At that moment
the rooster gave a chook-like groan, batted
his eyes, then suddenly sprang to his
feet and legged it towards the scrub.
The plaintive “Here, chook, chook,
chook,” didn’t check his headlong flight.
He was just disappearing in the bush when
the shotgun roared. “If he’d gone in there
I’d have lost him,” the woman explained.
“Now I’ll have to cook him before Sun-
day.” I went my way— thinking.
THE FOX-WHISTLE.
Head bent, at the smithy’s bench he stands
Fingering the thin tin in boy’s brown hands;
And the sudden splash of his bright-blue shirt
Is brilliant against the years of dirt.
Whistling between his teeth, and unaware,
Snipping it and shaping, frowning with care;
At the self-same bench where his father stood
Making his whistle on the scarred brown wood.
Then he lifts the thing, and its matrix slips
In the filings, nails and red-gum chips;
Now he bends it —thus —and flexes it —so—
Then lifts the whistle to his lips to blow.
Then lovingly curls his tongue to try
The trembled pitch of its mimicking cry;
And cruel tin wails its false, high fright,
As the rabbit wept in his trap last night.
Now he scratches his head, half-stopping a
grin,
Proud of his artistry with sharp, bright tin;
Shrugs darkness away and steps outside,
Fingering his work and smiling with pride.
Jogging towards the sulky-shed
In his sandshoed feet, he checks his tread
That he may walk softly where wild things
seek
Their gilded drink in the sunlit creek.
The galahs that caress the opalled sky
Play with the light, then, screaming, fly
To shatter the peace of the amber trees
With their fluttering wings and gaieties.
Above, the myriad swallows play,
Loving the last of the splendid day;
They swoop and rise, they turn and fling
The world from under each whispering wing.
And the herons rising in sudden fright
Go spiralling upwards in silent flight;
And still on the banks the rabbits run,
Dancing in clover, golden with sun.
Now the boy stops, looks about him and creeps
Where the softest, longest shadow sleeps
Promising night to the waiting ground;
His foot snaps sticks, and he halts at the sound.
Standing upright in the dappled shade,
He commands this whistle that he has made:
Shrill and plaintive, bitter and sweet.
It whistles the world to his waiting feet.
N.S.W.
ANNE BELL.


“Loulalo”: Perhaps many thought
spring arrived when the earliest wattle
flowered, or perhaps when the weeping-
willows, last of all trees to shed their
leaves and bare just a short three
weeks, showed new leaves, pale and
small, on their slender branches. But
spring did not arrive for me till the flame-
breasted robins left the rocky hillside
where they always spend the winter
months and went back to the mountains.
1 saw the last of them flitting about rest-
lessly two or three days ago and knew
that spring couldn’t be far away. Then
this morning as 1 went down the paddock
a whole flock of little brown rocks sud-
denly took wings and flew up from under
my advancing feet and the air was full
of flitting flames as their wings uncovered
the scarlet backs of the pretty little wax-
bills. They flew before me with their
restless flittering flight, short swift bursts
carrying them from point to point among
the bushes, rarely still long enough for me
to note the red waxy flesh along the side
of the beak .which gives them their de-
scriptive name.
* * * *
"Top Rail”: Any Aboliar ever heard
tell of a dugite (not dugout; I know them)
snake? My information is that it figures
in a verse concocted by some poet of the
nineties. Maybe it’s one of the cele-
brated snakes poets in the ’nineties could
afford to see. If so, would like to know
name of said affluent poet and in what
poem he alleges he saw it,
* * ♦ tn
“Lower Tops’l”; As well as catching
crays, those Tasmanian gins were adept
at sealing, a talent for which they were
much prized by the ruffianly sealers who
once inhabited the rugged islands of Bass
Strait, the first sealing-ground in Aus-
tralasia. Captain James Kelly, who made
the famous exploratory whaleboat
voyage around Tasmania in 1815, tells
in his diary how he watched two young
gins, naked and carefully greased in seal-
oil, creep up almost imperceptibly to
some seals. With clubs in hand they
lay down beside the animals on the spray-
washed rocks. Some of the amphibians
lifted up their heads to scent the new-
comers, but as they did so the gins skil-
fully went through the same motions as
the seals, holding up their elbows to
imitate a flapper and scratching them-
selves with their hands. Thus they acted
for some time until they jumped up and
each struck two seals on the noses, killing
them with the blows. Then the dusky
belles began dancing with joy on the
rocks,
* * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: W.A. is making a
survey of its gypsum deposits, which
"No. I haven't worked out a Way to have it BAG the wheat.”
means a survey of its salt-lakes, since
practically all the gypsum in the big
State is concentrated in and around the
inland lakes. There’s a lot to learn about
them, a major mystery being how they got
there. Some of them are big enough to
suggest that they may have once been
part of an inland sea. Lake Disappoint-
ment, in the Gibson Desert, covers 1000
square miles, and Gregory’s Salt Sea,
south of the Kimberleys, could be much
larger. Probably a more feasible theory
is that they are the relics of old, dis-
membered river-systems. This theory was
given a boost in 1921. After exceptionally
heavy rains Lake Austin, near Cue, over-
flowed and formed a wide stream that
swept around Mt. Magnet, down a valley
to the Yarra Yarra Lake and thence by
the Arrowsmith River to the Indian
Ocean. Further inland- Lakes Way and
Violet, at Wiluna, overflowed, passed east
to the Barr Smith Ranges and through a
wide gap in the Bates Range to Lake
Darlot. Beyond Darlot the stream was
joined by an overflow from Lake
Raeside, the 120-mile-long lake north of
Kalgoorlie, and the combined stream
flowed into the Ponton River. The Ponton
is an ephemeral stream which flows —at
times —towards the Bight, but gets lost
in the limestones of the Nullarbor soon
after crossing the Trans.-line. From Lake
Way to where the Ponton goes under-
ground is about 400 miles, which indicates
an ancient river that may have reached
the Bight, or the basin around Lake Eyre.
Pure speculation, of course. Perhaps there
are better theories to account for those
lakes.
♦ * * ♦ |
“A.L.D.”: That London “Daily Tele-
graph” letter-writer who holds that the
population of Great Britain is 25 million
too large to feed from its own resources
(B. 30/7/’52) is at variance with several
people of weight in the British agricul-
tural world. Lord Northbourne, in his
Look to the Land, expressed confidence
that if British farming were organised
on a thoroughly intensive basis home
production, with some changes in
national dietary habits, could feed a
population considerably larger than the
present one. He based his view on the
production per acre in Britain and Japan,
and the relative fertility of the two coun-
tries. Others who have taken sub-
stantially the same line are Harold Mas-
singham, a noted writer on agriculture
and country life, Phillip Oyler and Friend
Sykes. The last two are practical farmers
of standing.
* V * *
“Peturi”: “Loulalo” (B. 30/7/’52) asks
how did the small fish get into his well,
which was four or five chains from the
closest river. The explanation is easy:
They came through the water-table
referred to. At the old Lyndhurst gold-
field in nor’-east Tasmania all shafts down
to 200 ft. carry red-finned perch up to
lin. long. The nearest river is eight miles
away and the same perch occur in the
river. The fish could only reach the shafts
by the underground water-table, which is
deep at this point, and contains a heavy
volume of water which beat the mining
pumps used in the early days. All fish
that travel by deep water-tables are blind.
* * ♦ *
“H.C.8.”: Old George, who tried in
vain to get off a gold-bearing reef in
order to bury his mate (B. 13/8/'52),
must have known even less about gold
than I do. The theory-lesson an old pros-
pector gave me ran: “The run of your
‘country’ is nearly always north and south.
Things like volcanic eruptions could have
altered it, o’ course, but the motion of
the earth is mainly responsible for the
‘run’—that’s why most of the main
ranges of mountains throughout the world
run north and south.” In view of that,
and considering that the reef Old George
struck was only two degrees off the recog-
nised copybook line, there was no excuse
for his failure to branch away at right-
angles.
* * * *
“Kelms”: I’ll concede that stallions
may invariably trot behind their
harem when they’re running loose in a
paddock (B. 13/8/’52), but that isn’t the
case with wild brumbies. Among them
the stallion always feeds apart from the
mob, and always maintains a good look-
out. There may be other lookouts posted
at the time-—usually there are one or two
—but the stalhon is always on the alert,
When danger threatens he rounds his
mob up, nipping any laggards, and gets
them started off in the right direction,
True, he runs behind them until he
reckons they’ve got a start on their
pursuers, and he’ll even lag behind to
hinder the enemy if necessary, but once
the race is really on he bolts around them
and takes the lead. That is logical: he
is the leader, and on him lies the respon-
sibility of seeing that they don’t run into
“Well have to head back -the refrigerating plant's gone bung!”
fresh danger; and, much as I respect the
brumby’s intelligence, I can’t credit him
with the ability to direct the flight from
the rear. Now, here’s a peculiar feature
of the brumby herds at present running
near the coast north and south of Perth,
As “H.H.” says, stallions will attack
geldings. They’ll fight them even more
readily than they’ll fight each other ; yet
among these mobs you'll often find a
gelding that has gone bush. They seem
to be accepted, and to have some place in
the mob—possibly because of some Intel-
iigence gained by contact with man.
* * * • *
“Bass’: “Irving’s” mate who used
petrol instead of kerosene in his lamp
(B. 30/7 /'52) wasn’t Tunning as big a
risk as you might think. Petrol burns
quite freely and without danger of
explosion so long as there isn’t an accumu-
lation of gases. It’s the petrol gas that’s
the explosive element, proof of which
lies in the fact that if a car engine floods
—that is, if it gets petrol instead of gas
in the -combustion-chamber—it doesn't
start readily. In the Middle East I had
occasion to use a blowlamp, and, as the
only fuel available was petrol, I filled up
on that. There was a wild scatter when I
lit up, but the thing worked at least as
well as with kerosene—probably better—
and there was never any danger of an
explosion. At the same time I’ve known
explosions to occur with lamps using
kerosene when the wick was allowed to
burn down too far. It’s all a matter of
how these things are handled.
• * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Old Camp’s” fire-
beetles (B. 30/7/’52) are probably the
same as the pests we used to call firebugs
when I was clearing in the Westralian
whealbelt. Apparently impervious to
heat in any form, they’d crawl among
the flames and ashes of the clearing-
fires, and when darn’ near red-
hot they’d jump out and land on
the nearest patch of bare skin. They’d
be hot enough to raise a blister where
they touched, yet they never seemed to
be affected themselves. They were at their
worst when they misjudged the distance
and fell just far enough short to land in
a boot and get jammed between the boot
and the bare-foot. Still, we never
wore socks while burning off, and we
never laced our boots up, because if you
trod in a heap of hot ashes it was
important to get your boot off as quickly
as possible. Sometimes you might stand
alongside a hot coal for a minute before
the heaf penetrated the leather, but once
it got hiot it stayed hot, and it’s surpris-
ing how long it takes to untie your laces
in a case like that.
♦ * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: “H.H.” (B.
6/8/’53) sets a poser concerning sheep-
suicide. Here are my observations: (1)
Anything can be a common happening
with a sheep—the commonest being the
gradual transformation of a tiny, playful,
engaging and appealingly helpless mite
of a lamb to a stubborn, pigheaded,
brainless and equally helpless quadruped
with two solitary virtues—its carcass and
its golden fleece. (2) The source of its
motivation, physical and mental, being
unkopwn to mortal mind, we seem to
have no way of discovering why a sheep
does anything. For instance, an old ewe
with a young lamb will often stamp a
foot and make a run at a well-behaved
sheepdog, trotting by with no evil intent.
Yet if a dingo gets into the paddock and
comes near her the same lady will streak
off like a hawk in a hurry, leaving her
helpless offspring to the care of the wild
dog. A flock of sheep will scatter madly
from a half-grown dingo, permitting him
to catch and kill them singly at his will,
whereas if the woolly fools would only
keep together and run towards the dingo
he’d light out for the horizon with dis-
patch (big and powerful though he be,
the warrigal is easily bluffed, except when
his prey is alone and defenceless). Risk
your life to get flood-threatened sheep
on to high ground, and as soon as your
back is turned they'll trudge to the
nearest danger-point and stand until an
inch or two of rising water becomes a
powerful current that carries them off.
Only a mud-turtle has a poorer sense of
self-preservation than the sheep. 1 have
found him dead against a rabbit-netting
fence on top of a dry, stony range, two
miles from the dried-up waterhole in a
creek that he had doubtless left in search
of water. He had made a laborious
journey at right-angles to the course of the
creek, whereas less than 200 yards down
the creek from the dried-up hole was a
great sheet of permanent water,
* ♦ * *
“The Missus”: As a breeder of Corrie-
dales himself, Dad is feeling bewildered,
Hard-up for reading matter, he picked up
one of the children’s favorites, entitled
Green Grass of Wyoming. The opening
pages deal with a ranch where one
Captain McLaughlin raises polo ponies
and runs a Corriedale stud. His “fifty
rams” are agisted on a neighboring pro-
perty, and when his son goes there to in-
spect them, the scene is described
thus. “The handsome Corriedales were
grazing quietly, scattered over the pasture,
Ken’s eyes dwelt on the symmetrical
curving horns, rising from the thick curly
wool.” With a sigh Dad closed the book
and got out his own text-books. He still
thinks his own stud sires are true to type,
but he’d dearly love to see one of the
U.S. homed variety, just for comparison,
* * * *
“Bobbie Jay”; After her visit to
hospital Omudgee was delighted to be
home again. It had been her first “sit-
down” in the Whiteman’s hospital and
she was star of the camp for some days,
with large audiences to hear of her ex-
periences. Jack, her husband, was bored
to tears. A month after Omudgee’s
return both were in “sick call,” and Missus
asked Jack if Omudgee was better,
“Proper better now, Missis,” replied the
abo. “But when she bin come back from
hospital just talk, talk, talk like bloody
machine.”
* ♦ * ♦
“Ceg”: It happened in the days when
farmers had overdrafts ; yes, it was as
far back as that. One of them, needing
accommodation to tide him over drought,
duly appended his signature to the
mortgage—in green ink. When the mort-
gage was lodged at the Titles Office for
registration, the “dealing” was tossed out
because of the green-ink signature. The
farmer was thereupon asked to re-sign
in blue-black ink, but flatly refused. The
inevitable file of correspondence ensued,
and in one letter the farmer stated that up
where he was the whole countryside was
scorched brown and he, personally,
favored a touch of green here and there,
even if only on the mortgage. In the
end the Registrar of Titles was appealed
to. He ordered that the business be
allowed to proceed, green ink and all, and
it was even so.
COMO.
The whip of the sound of the
steel on the stone of the
shore lashed the lake,
cracked across the fresh face of the lake.
In the mint-green morning
see the blue curved swing
of John, youth, lean with hard hammer
smashing stone by the water.
Loose shoulders swing and trees echoing
to the hammer’s fall, remembering
that tomorrow stark in the clear-cut sun
will stand a cottage for Mary and John.
N.S.W.
JEFFREY MILES.


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
1834
1952
ẃ
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
To-day as for 117 years
the Bank meets the
needs of the times
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country*
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
PENS
WM
ifl 1 I
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
akd PERTH
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ANZUS OMISSION.
London “Times” severely
criticised on general grounds the
omission of Britain from the
Anzus meeting at Honolulu.
Commenting on this in a
“Times” letter, Admiral Sir
Gerald Dickens gives a special,
and weighty, reason why Britain
should have been there:
“The trade of Australia and
New Zealand, vital to their exist-
ence, is carried mainly in British
ships, on which, also, depends
very largely the ability of the
Commonwealth ' countries to
reinforce each other in war.
“These facts are important, as
also is the loss of British pres-
tige caused by this unfortunate
error in judgment in excluding
us from these deliberations and
by Britain’s apparent indiffer-
ence in the matter.
“Maritime strategy must be
considered as a whole, and the
great sea routes between the
South Pacific and the rest of the
world form a large part of the
network of sea communications
of the whole British Common-
wealth. Whether this country or
one of her allies, becomes
responsible for the immediate
protection of any particular part
of those communications is
neither here nor there, but surely
it is only proper that we should
have a say in a matter which so
vitally affects our general
strategy and which touches our
family responsibilities so closely.
“This incident, in itself unfor-
tunate, may yet be turned to
good account if it reminds us
that for the last few years we
have forgotten what sea power
means. We succeeded in the
past when our armies, taking
advantage of sea power, attacked
the enemy on his exposed flanks.
How applicable this. would be
were war forced on us now by
a great continental conglomera-
tion, which is open to attacks
from the sea in many places,
and where the populations long
to be set free. Strategy on these
lines would force our enemy to
immobilise vast forces in many
wide areas, thus reducing pres-
sure on the ‘western front’ —the
point about which we are so
anxious. Thus does sea power
work.
“More attention must now be
given to the Navy’s require-
ments if it is to play its great
role properly (how can it if,
owing to the small number of
ships in commission, officers and
men are compelled to spend
most of their sea lives on
shore?) and retain the confi-
dence of the sister-nations of
the Commonwealth.”
German Risk.
“Now Russia has decided to
exploit her chosen weapon—the
appeal of German unity. In the
field of politics it is comparable
to the atomic bomb.”
And Germans all through are
ready to fall for it, declares a
leading De Gaullist, Jacques
Soustelle, in the American pub-
lication “Foreign Affairs.”
Presenting the Gaullist view
of the German problem—a view
with which many non-Gaullist
Frenchmen agree —the writer
adds:
“It is useless to shut one’s eyes
to reality. Unity—the reconsti-
tution of the Reich with its own
armed force —is a primordial
objective for the immense
majority of Germans, even if it
is proposed by the Soviets and
even if it is encumbered with a
Russian mortgage,
“From the Communists of
East Germany through the
Social Democrats and Christian
Democrats to the neo-Nazis the
Germans will respond to the call
of Einheit. Bolshevism plays its
game boldly, astride the horse of
the Apocalypse; German chau-
vinism is in full renaissance.
“We French people know
from the experience of three
wars the meaning for us, and
for the peace of the world, of
the recurrent appearance of the
German nebula which gathers
itself together and then explodes.
That was the phenomenon of
the Bismarckian Germany of
1870, of Wilhelm’s Empire of
1914 and of Hitler’s Third
Reich.
“Now the outlines of the
Fourth Reich appear on the
horizon, the product of Western
errors and cynical Soviet calcu-
lation.”
Korean Count.
Objecting strongly to British
snipings at Uncle Sam, “U.S.
News and World Report” points
out that, while British forces
in and around Korea total
23,000, the U.S. forces there
total 600,000, and it lists these
telling figures:
Total casualties, U.S. 112,843,
British 3250, ratio 34 to 1 ;
killed, U.S. 17,783, British 513,
ratio 34 to 1 ; wounded, U.S.
82,493, British 1601, ratio 51
Baltimore ( U.S.A .) “Sun."
“I’m glad she’s carrying a spear — but will she be in a position to
dominate the show again?”
to 1 ; missing, U.S. 12,567,
British 1136, ratio 11 to 1.
Further stating that “It is the
U.S., too, that is footing the bill
for most of the war,” it adds:
“In the face of this situation,
suggestions that Britain is in a
position to run things better in
Korea are causing more and
more annoyance to U.S. officials
who are trying to force an end
to the war.”
Ships for Russia.
Denmark’s tankers for Russia
brought a threat of U.S. retalia-
tion that came to nothing.
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” lists also on the ways for
Russia 11 Belgian ships, 10
Dutch cargo vessels and 10
Dutch whalers, 11 Italian vessels
and three Swedish, while a
British firm is supplying 100-ton
electric motors for three Soviet
icebreakers.
Uncle Sam definitely doesn’t
like any of it, but “if U.S. cuts
off all aid to these countries
U.S. runs a risk of not having
many allies left. So Moscow
will probably get the ships.”
British Jets.
“Competition can’t worry
British jet-manufacturers for a
while. They have what amounts
to a monopoly.”
“The prospects for British
air-transport are brighter now
than at any time since 1945.”
These statements, respectively
from “U.S. News and World
Report” and London “Times
Review of Industry,” sum up
Britain’s considerable air lead.
The “Review” further states:
“From the national point of
view the important factor is that
suitable British aircraft and
engines are available, or under
development, to meet both the
current needs and future plans
of the airline corporations and
the charter companies.
“The British aircraft industry
has no need to make excuses for
the fact that they were not
available earlier. It is well
known that by agreement with
the Americans it was arranged
that, throughout the 1939-45
war, Britain would concentrate
on producing military types—
mainly bombers and fighters—
leaving the design and construc-
tion of transports to the United
States.
“These transports played a
vital part in winning the war,
but they also gave the Ameri-
can industry a long lead in pro-
ducing piston-engined airliners.
“In that type of aircraft
Britain could not hope to make
up the leeway, and so the bold
decision was taken to go straight
on to civil types powered by gas
turbines. That has proved to be
the right policy, and it is already
paying a handsome dividend.”
Clems and Nyes.
Britain’s Labor party, as
viewed by a London “Sunday
Times” political writer, is now
practically two parties, one led
by Clem Attlee, the other by
Nye Bevan.
It’s no “family tiff” but
“internal disruption”: “There
is as much hostility to Mr.
Attlee and his supporters from
a powerful section of the Labor
party as there is to the Govern-
ment.”
As to that, however. Lord
Mancroft has commented:
“The Tory party must not pin
too much faith on the Bevan-
Attlee split. It is fundamental,
but it won’t prevent any
Socialists from voting Socialist
at the next election. Most of
them are not interested in Wes-
tern Germany, cr the balance of
payments, or Korea, or any of
the matters of policy upon
which their party is completely
divided. But they are interested
in medicine-bottles and school-
buses. They will vote for the
man who promises them more
benefits from taxation than they
will have to pay in taxes to pro-
vide them. At the moment that
man is Bevan. And it’s most
unkind to call Bevan a rebel.
It’s Attlee who’s the rebel.
Bevan is the orthodox Socialist.”
Dragnet Digest.
Churchill, 78. London
correspondent in “U.S. News
and World Report”: “His hear-
ing is failing. Once in a while
in Parliament he still shows
flashes of his old oratorical
mastery, but afterward he may
be seen moving off the floor
rather falteringly, using the
handrails to guide his step. Not
even his closest friend would
dare offer a supporting arm.
This Churchill spirit is dogged
as ever.”
Adenauer. London “New
Statesman” writer’s glimpse:
“Dr. Adenauer (as I could feel
for myself as I panted after him
up his steep hillside rose gar-
den) bears his 74 years well. As
Lord Mayor of Cologne before
1933, he ran the City, with
charm and ruthlessness, as a
one-man show. He uses the
same methods as Chancellor,
dispensing with collective
Cabinet responsibility and tak-
ing all decisions on his own.”
Poor Australia. London
“Financial Times” assessment:
“Contrary to some estimates,
Australia is far from being a
rich country. It is to be doubted
whether there is a single mil-
lionaire in the Commonwealth
—though at least every other
motor-manufacturer in Britain
has made a good part of his
millions out of selling cars to
Australia.”
American Preferred. A
“New York Times” correspond-
ent in Europe, commenting on
the reluctance of U.S. Army
officials there to purchase any-
thing non-American: “An
Army that is still hauling canned
beer 4000 miles to be drunk by
people living in Heidelberg and
Munich presents a formidable
psychological problem to those
who want it to start buying more
electronic equipment in the
Netherlands and Italy.”
Jet Noises. —All very well for
passengers to ride along
smoothly and noiselessly in jet-
aircraft, comments London
“Times” in effect, but “residents
near main airports, appalled by
the noise that jet-aircraft create
on the ground, have a grievance
that must be taken seriously.”


For Sale.
FOUR BRICK FLATS
VACANT POSSESSION.
Furnished. Hot Water Throughout.
MRS. PITMAN,
18 Queens Rd., Hamilton,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Personal and’Missing Friends.
WOULD anybody knowing the whereabouts
of RICHARD HUGH HUGHES, LLOYD
HUGHES, EVAN HUGHES, ELIZABETH
HUGHES, the children of the late WIL-
LIAM and AGNES HUGHES, of Ballarat,
or of the descendants of the said WIL-
LIAM HUGHES’S brothers or sisters
MARGARET, LETITIA, THOMAS, ERAS-
MUS, ESTER and ELLEN please com-
municate with MESSRS. JONES &
KENNEDY, Solicitors, 213 Nicholson
Street, Footscray, Melbourne.
MARRIAGE:
The Art of
Lasting Happiness
DAVID R. MACE
M.A., B.Sc., Ph.D.
Formerly General Secretary and
Director of the National
Marriage Guidance Council of
Great Britain.
Price 13/3
CP ostage 7d. extra)
Obtainable from
WILLIAM TYAS
558 George Street, SYDNEY
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO JOHN ROY WYND late of Court
House Goulbum. —TAKE NOTICE that
VIOLET MURIEL WYND has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2790 of 1952
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three (3) years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
12th November 1952 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
HAROLD RICH, Solicitor, of 188 George
Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES CHISHOLM McGLINCHEY
late of Currarong near Nowra in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that WANDA SHIRLEY McGLINCHEY has
filed Petition for Divorce No. 613 of 1952
on the grounds of desertion for 8 years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in tips Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by_ the
10th day of November 1952 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MARRIOTT, OLIVER & MACDONALD.
Solicitors, Nowra, or from their Sydney
Agents, JONES, JONES & JONES. Solici-
tors, 183 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO RONALD CHARLES PIKE late of
Chatswood N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
CLARICE HENRIETTE PIKE has filed a-
Petition for Divorce No. 2168 of 1952 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance on or before the 17th day of
November 1952 at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. C. BOYLE &
CO., Solicitors, 39 Martin Place, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
SIMPLEX 300 WATT
GENERATING SET
PRICE
£75
Weight
IClbs.
mm
Sturdy
battery-charging
and lighting set.
12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
Wool’s battle with
the synthetics
Will orlon (“warmer than
wool”), dynel (“doesn't shrink
or itch”), dacron (“sheds water
like a duck”) and other man-
made fibres soon replace wool?
September Reader’s Digest
brings you a report on the
special qualities of six new
synthetics, how each compares
with wool. A wool authority
says, so far, there is no syn-
thetic fibre that combines all
of wool’s good qualities—resili-
ence, dyeability, non-inflamma-
bility.
One stimulating Reader’s
Digest article a day and
you’re in touch with today’s
fast-moving world. September
issue carries 30 articles con-
densed from the world’s best
reading. Get your copy today.
One shilling and sixpence at
all newsagents and bookstalls.
Latest Australian Publications
Obtainable From All Recognised Booksellers
A CONTRIBUTION TO THE THEORY OF THE LIVING
ORGANISM, by WILFRED E. AGAR.
Second edition, revised. Philosophical basis of biological theories.
8J x ss. 235 pages. Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press. 27/6.
THE STORY OF CHRISTIANITY, by JOHN ARMOUR,
A history of Christianity. 8| x 54- 399 pages. Cloth binding.
Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 35/-.
PHILOSOPHER'S SCRAP BOOK, by MONTY BLANDFORD.
An anthology of prose and verse. 10 x 71. 84 pages. Portrait. Cloth
binding. Hallcraft Publishing Co., Melbourne. 12/-.
THINGS WORTH FIGHTING FOR: Speeches by JOSEPH BENEDICT
CHIP LEY. Edited by A. W. Stargardt. Foreword by the Rt. Hon.
Dr. H. V. BVATT, Q. 0., M.P. 8J x 54. xiii, 397 pages. Cloth
binding. Melbourne University Press. 25/-.
LACHLAN MACQUARIE, a Biography, by MALCOLM E. ELLIS.
Revised edition. 94 x 6. 614 pages, 7 coloured plates, 1 b/w., 2 maps.
Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 50/-.
THE NINE MUSES, by JUNE EPSTEIN. Plays for senior grades.
(Mullens’ Plays for Children No. 3.) 71 x 5. 92 pages, 7 illustrations.
Paper cover. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 4/6.
MRS. FLOATE’S SECRET OF SUCCESS COOKERY BOOK,
Volume 1; Cakes, Pastries, and Biscuits, by MRS. DOROTHY FLOATS.
18th edition. 81 x 54. 156 pages. 25 illustrations. • Paper cover.
Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 6/-.
MRS. FLOATE’S SECRET OF SUCCESS COOKERY BOOK No. 3:
Preserves; Recipes for Diabetics, by MRS. DOROTHY FLOATS. Third
edition. 81 x 54. 160 pages. 28 illustrations. Paper cover.
Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 6/-.
THE CAT WALK, by LEXIE GRIFFITHS.
(Mullens’ Stories for Children No. 202.) 71 x 6. 56 pages, 4
illustrations. Paper cover. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 2/9.
SOUTHERLY: A literary magazine published quarterly, edited by R. G.
HOWARTH. Number 2, 1952, Vol. 13, No. 2. 9| x 7. 62 pages,
1 illustration. Paper wrapper. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 3/6.
THE SILENT SERVICE, by THOMAS M. JONES and lON IDRIESS.
Action stories of the Anzac Navy. 8| x 54- 372 pages, 15 illustrations,
1 map. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
INTRODUCTION TO SOIL SCIENCE, by GEOFFREY W. LEEPER.
Second edition revised. Specially prepared for Australian conditions.
8| x 54. viii. 222 pages. 12 plates, 37 text figures, including 9 maps.
Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press. 27/6.
AUSTRALIAN POETRY 1951-1953, selected by KENNETH MACKENZIE.
A collection of modem Australian verse. 74 x 5. 78 pages. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 10/6.
SET POINTS: My Tennis Story, by DINNY PAILS.
9| x 7J., 82 pages. 357 photographs. Ourrawong Publishing Co.
Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 25/-.
DUST ON MY SHOES, by PETER FINNEY.
An adventurous travel book. 8f x 54- 312 pages, 31 illustrations,
1 map. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
ALIEN SON, by JUDAH WATEN.
A novel. 74 x 5. 186 pages. Cloth binding. ' Angus & Robertson
Ltd., Sydney. 15/-.
THE WREN’S NEST, by JOAN M. WELSH.
Australian nature stories. (Mullens’ Stories for Children No. SOI.)
74 x 5. 48 pages, 5 illustrations. Paper cover. Robertson &
Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 2/9.
The Australian Book Publishers 9 Association
w
Wi.th the electric welding kit with a thousand uses. Welds cracks and
holes in car bodies, mudguards, radiators, etc. Repairs motor-cycles,
domestic appliances, sheet metal work, etc. It solders and brazes, too.
Many useful articles can be made such as Station Wagon Bodies, Radio
Chassis, Caravan Bodies, etc.
The kit is easy to operate and it quickly pays for itself in time and money
saved. Works from 6-volt or 12-volt battery. Call in for free demonstra-
tion of welding or send now for .this complete welding kit; comprising
a high-grade welding tool, 10 feet of welding cable and 3 battery clips,
assortment of welding rods, flux, electrodes, and complete working instruc-
tions.
This welding kit is the only one sold in Australia with a 6-point guarantee:—
• Fully guaranteed for two years.
• The only kit sold fully complete.
• After sales service. Renewals of welding
rods, electrodes, etc., can be supplied at small
cost.
• Free technical service. After purchase you
may at any time write to us for further
instructions free.
• We guarantee you will become proficient at
welding. The quality of the welding kit; plus
the complete instructions and free technical
service gives you every aid to weld skilfully.
• Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded
in full.
This complete Voiding kit. instructions, and 6 point guarantee
will be mailed to you for £4/15/6. Write NOW. You risk
nothing. Send for your kit TODAY. POST COUPON NOW.
POINT
GMRMTE
PACIFIC HOME SUPPLIES,
378 Burnley Street, Richmond, Victoria.
Enclosed is £4/15/6. Please send me complete Welding Kit
and six point guarantee. If at the end of 14 days I do not wish
to keep it, I will return it in good order, and you will refund
my £4/15/6 in full. Please write in BLOCK CAPITALS.
ADDRESS
SUNDRY SHOWS
Brown Studies.
Despite this wide brown land
of the poets, the Australian land-
scape is not without its clear
springing greens, and that is
what seems to be missing from
most of Erik Langker’s land-
scapes at the Grosvenor
Galleries, Sydney. There is a
brownness about them which
recalls, faintly, Sir James
Beaumont’s peculiar counsel: “A
good picture, like a good fiddle,
should be brown.” Langker’s
landscapes are not as brown as
all that, but in most of those on
show there is little hint of the
fresh greens of growing things.
It might be conceded that they
are a faithful report of a parti-
cular time or place, but as paint-
ing after painting—from “Barrier
Reef” to “Landscape, Macquarie
Fields,” and from “Tumut
Valley” to “From Stanwell Park”
—all show the same charac-
teristic, it becomes obvious, par-
ticularly by sudden contrast with
the fresh watercolor “Farm
House, Windsor,” or with the oil
“The Road at Morning,” that the
brownish tinge which covers
most of the paintings is some-
thing introduced between the
painter and his subjects.
The artist, of course, is
entitled to a brown outlook, and
the total effect is by no means
drastic. Most of the landscapes
are calm, smoothly-painted,
harmonious compositions, but
the impression is rather of things
pleasantly remembered than of
beauty seen and painted with the
freshness of inspiration.
Some of the smaller paintings,
such as “Through the Trees” and
“Hills and Plains,” have that
quality of spontaneity and are
better for it. Others escape the
brown mood: “At Evening” is
a lyrical description of quiet
waters and trees; “Harvest
Landscape” has an effective
drama of clouds over massive
hills with the play of patches of
sunlight on the fields in the fore-
ground ; and “Misty Valley” is
an almost poetic conception of
depths and distances softened by
mist, marred only by two
unbelievably clear and hard trees
in the foreground.
O. F.
"The Witch."
Sydney’s Mercury Theatre
kicked off its every-night-of-the-
week project at St. James Hall
with this Masefield version of
Hans Wiers-Jenssen’s “Anne
Pedersdotter” —wasn’t it also the
subject for Carl Dreyer’s mag-
nificent film “Day of Wrath”?
A 16th-century tale of witch-
craft, it is by no means a great
play, but, in the simplicity of its
telling and in the fact that it is
based pretty soundly on human
passions despite its decorations
of superstition and black magic,
it is not without power and con-
viction. Whether Anne Peders-
dotter, daughter of a witch and
wife of old Absolon Pedersson,
the palace chaplain, seduces her
stepson and kills her husband
by sorcery or by natural means
doesn’t really matter. The story
runs its course with dramatic
inevitability, and the cruelty of
the superstitions which make; the
mob shout and celebrate while
women are burned provides it
with savage background music,
Norman Cull’s production
preserved Masefield’s essential
simplicity, and, although provid-
ing a climax at the wrong
time, it brought the Bergen
mob on to the stage very
effectively in the first scene ; it
also showed, in the prompter’s
voice and in some crashing
scenery, that a couple more
rehearsals might have been
useful.
Barbara Brunton, as Anne
Pedersdotter, gives a very mov-
ing and convincing perform-
ance as she passes from her
simple feelings in the opening
scene to the discovery of her
powers of sorcery and thence to
the tortured mixture of passion
and witchcraft and fear of
burning at the end. Rodney
Taylor contrives to get honesty
and dignity into Absolon and
make it credible that Christian
beliefs and the torturing of
women to extract confessions
from them could go hand in
hand; and that a minister
should suffer the tortures of the
damned because he failed to save
a woman’s soul by burning her
at the stake.
June Wimble and Roger
Climpson are convincing for
most of the time, and Lesley
Robson has her successful
moments of agony, terror and
hatred before the mob stormed
on to the stage and dragged her
away for the bonfire.
"Full House."
Ivor Novello’s “Full House”
—the comedy of what happens
to the muddle-headed Frynne
Rodney when she runs an illegal
casino in London to obtain
financial security for her family
—needs a first-class professional
company to do it full justice.
Laurier Lange’s production for
the National Theatre at Hobart
Royal lacked only that profes-
sional slickness in an otherwise
well-polished and -sustained
presentation.
After a slow opening (the
play’s weakness lies in a care-
lessly-written first act), cast and
audience warmed up and began
to enjoy themselves. Freda
Elliott, as Lola Leadenhall, was
at all times delightful, and stole
the show against stiff opposition
from Claire Mitchell (Frynne);
Miss Mitchell and Bob Geappen,
as Mr. Rosenblatt, occasionally
played to the gallery for laughs.
Diana Flower gave a particu-
larly convincing portrayal of the
sporty Lady April Hannington,
and Hal Porter and Michael
Sargent injected what little life
was possible into the stooge
parts of Archie Leadenhall and
John Rodney.
University Concert.
Happily inspired, Sydney Uni-
versity authorities gave their
centenary-winding-up guests an
artistic treat with some of the
greatest chamber music
Beethoven’s Trio in D Major,
Op. 70, No. 1, Brahms’s Trio in
C Minor, Op. 101 and Brahms’s
Sonata for Violin and Piano,
Op. 108. These works share
common attributes with the
Great Hall in which they were
played: architectural design
combining massiveness, strength
and beauty of contour ; and an
easy defiance of time.
Beatrice Tange (piano), Ernest
Llewellyn (violin) and Hans
George (’cello) neatly integrated
strings and keyboard while
achieving notable tone. These
big works have similar virtues:
opening movements of great
virility, nobility of theme, a
seemingly inexhaustible ingenuity
in the developments and slow
sections of deep poignancy.
Cassie Tobin.
Cassie Tobin, the young Syd-
ney mezzo-contralto, revealed at
her History House recital a
voice of considerable promise
and unusual timbre. Her
greatest asset at the moment is
a full-bodied tone of fine quality
around middle D and E. An
inclination to huskiness in the
extreme depths of her gamut,
however, needs eliminating.
Her opening group, compris-
ing airs by Handel and Bach,
Pergolesi’s “Nina” and Schu-
mann’s “Dedication,” wasn’t im-
pressive, due in part to initial
nervousness and to a slight
throat ailment. With the disap-
pearance of the former and a
game defiance of the latter the
singer improved, and in an
operatic group sang with spirit
“Far Greater In His Lonely
State,” from Gounod’s “Irene.”
Generally speaking, however,
Miss Tobin’s interpretative art
needs still a lot of work on it.
There was too much “straight-
up-and-down” singing. “Nina”
was galloped through without
regard to the phrasing needs of
the song’s mood. Three Brahms
songs suffered similarly from a
too-casual approach. But the
final offering, Bizet’s “Agnus
Dei,” brought out some ringing
notes, though devotional fervor
was absent.
Inevitably the highlight of the
sixth subscription concert by the
Queensland Symphony Orchestra
was Dorothy Maynor’s Mozart.
Owing perhaps to her high-
pressure southern tour there
was a little hoarseness in
the louder passages of the
“Alleluia,” but listening to
her exquisite, soft singing of
Pamina’s aria one was con-
stantly aware of one of the great
voices of the day. Under John
Farnsworth Hall the Queensland
Symphony Orchestra’s perform-
ance of the Mozart Symphony
No. 25 was a model of precise
and graceful playing. It was able
to capture to perfection the
melancholy, somewhat astringent
tone of Sibelius’s “Minnelied.”


3 eIS
I «7S*
- 5 t ?• n
IpH
«fir
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY,
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Have you chosen your Executor wisely?
HPHE qualifications of an Executor who can be
-*■ depended upon to administer an Estate, efficiently
and economically, are many and varied. It is imperative
also that he should be immediately available, in good
health, and of sound judgment when called on to act.
If you have alrea y appointed a relative or friend,
you may be sure that he will welcome your suggestion
that you should appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as Co-Executor. It will relieve him of a heavy
burden of responsibility.
A Senior Officer will be pleased to discuss with
you the services offered by Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited —and their advantages. You are invited to
ring 80377, or write, and make an appointment. There
is no obligation on your part.
Why not make that appointment today?
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX: ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN:
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
H. V. DOUGLASS. Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR. ETC-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. f Dividends N serves, serves.*
1946 .. 9,700 10 p.c. = 5,970 3,730 28,899
Reserves capitalised, £9602 .. .. 20,297
Unexplained addition to res., £2947.. 23,244
1947 .. 21,448 15 p.c. = 12,000 9,448 32,692
To inner reserves, £21,996 .. .. 10,696
Pref. Ord. Total,
p.c. p.c. £
1948 .. 50,089 5 15 13,500 36,589 47,285
1949 .. 107,272 5 15 13,500 93,772 141,057
To stock reserve, £30,000 .. .. 111,057
1950 .. 379,427 5 50 41,500 337,927 448,984
To stock reserve, £150,000 .. .. 298,984
Revaluation property, £49,500 .. 348,484
Surplus sale assets, £4032 .. .. 352,516
1951 . . 308,446 5 30 62,000 241,446 593,962
To stock reserve, £50,000 . . .. 543,962
1952 .. 263,248 5 30 62,000 201,248 745,210
* Excludes special stock reserve, now £250,000.
The peak of the boom in the motor-
trade was reached about half-way
through the 12-months covered by the
latest accounts. This co. holds the N. S.
Wales franchise (except for portions of
the Northern Rivers and Riverina) for
the popular Austin cars, trucks and
marine engines. Its vehicle sales, which
shot up like a rocket from 719 in 1947
to 12,920 in 1951, slipped back to 10,729
last term. Among the factors responsible
were the heavy increase in sales tax in
Sept., 1951, hire-purchase and other credit
restrictions, and easing tempo of public
spending generally, owing to changes, and
threatened changes, in the economic and
financial climate. Also, British makers
quickened deliveries to the Australian
market following restriction of supplies
to Canada. One result has been an
accumulation of stocks by Australian
dealers, who have had to lean heavily
upon their bankers and others to finance
the swollen inventories. However, higher
prices and continued growth of services
and sales of parts put a spring of
£972,719 in the money-value of the year’s
turnover, which reached a record
£13,494,003, of which £2,152,831 was
paid to the Government in Customs duty
and taxes of one kind and another.
The slip of £40,198 in net earnings
(£263,248) was due to heavier provisions
for income tax (£500,000, up £50,000) and
depreciation (£50,000, up £8682). Gains
from the bigger turnover apparently took
care of the brisk advance in wage and
other costs. In addition to wages and
salaries, the staff was handed £110,109
(£llO-odd per employee) before the net
amount available for shareholders was
arrived at. The £263,248 of profit claimed
was enough to pay the small pref. div.
(£2000) and show a juicy 130.7 p.c. on the
£200,000 of ord. capital compared with
150.7 p.c. for the previous term. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined, including the special stock
reserve of £250,000) the year’s profit was
21.8 p.c., which is an exceptionally high
rate of earning. Repetition of the 30 p.c.
distribution, of which 10 p.c. is labelled
bonus, thus remained an easy matter.
Over three times more than was distri-
buted was ploughed back into the busi-
ness, lifting free reserves to £745,210.
This stout buttress for capital should
prove very helpful in what looks like less
propitious years ahead.
During the year the co.’s big new body-
building and assembly works at Enfield
(near Sydney) came into production, the
first half in Oct., 1951, and the second
half in June last. They are designed to
handle 400 passenger and a like number
of commercial vehicles a month, and
should both quicken and cheapen produc-
tion and distribution, provided output
can be maintained at a satisfactory level.
The net. addition to freeholds was
£337,783 and to plant £125,979:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £llO,OOO £240,000 £240,000 £240,000
Creditors, etc. 886,223*1,122,476 1,946,756 2,514,514
Overdraft .. 1,127,675
Tax provision 373,526 473,619 448,874
Final divs. .. 12,750 34,750 41,000 41,000
Freeholds ~ 90,000 103,576 197,945 535,728
Plant, etc. .. 39,651 60,395 49,244 175,223
Stocks .. 545,155 683,9801,221,897 2,912,522
Debtors .. 46,830 115,499 145,971 308,427
Investments . . 28,797 28,856 190,154 684.729
Cash, etc. .. 369,597 1,077,7301,440,126 500.644
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet the outlay on fixed assets, carry
£1,690,625 more stocks, an extra £162,456
book-debts, and add £494,575 to invest-
ments the co. went to its bankers for
£1,127,675, increased the amount coming
to creditors, etc., by £567,758 and drew
upon cash, etc., for £939,482. The invest-
ments are shares in subsidiaries £457,150
(up £358,025) and shares in other cos.,
etc., £227,579 (up £136,550). The sub-
sidiaries are mainly concerned with pro-
perties.
Since the close of accounts a freehold
at Alexandria has been sold and the pro-
perty at Pyrmont, bought a year ago for
£250,000, looks like becoming redundant,
the original plan for transfer of head-
quarters, etc., having been abandoned.
The board sums up the outlook in this
way:
Although the co.’s output must inevitably
be reduced to a more normal figure, there
appears no reason why a sound and steady
period of trading should not follow in the
future. The profits which during the past
years have been reinvested in the co. to
guard against such a contingency, the con-
traction in overhead and other exes, to a
level with expected output, and eventual
conversion of our stocks of vehicles to cash
on a profitable basis should place the co.
in a position where it can stabilise employ-
ment of labor and funds with consequent
benefit to employees and shareholders both.
Much will depend upon what happens in
connection with the selling-price of
vehicles in a sticky market. There are
already sounds of a knife being sharpened
in the trade. However, the special stock
reserve of £250,000' will help to cushion
whatever bumps there might be in the
road ahead.
At 15s. (245. 9d. a year ago) the co.’s
f.-p. ss. ords. return 10 p.c. so long as
the 30 p.c. distribution continues. The
5 p.c. £1 prefs. at 18s. 6d. yield 5.4 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £24 12s. 7d, prefs.
and 235. 7d. ords.
Walter Reid & Co., Ltd. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1945 .. 27,778 104 p.c. = 22,500 5,278 334,531
1946 .. 31,251 134 .. .. 27,000 4,251 358,782
1947 .. 33,081 14-| ~ „ 29,000 4,081' 362,863
1948 .. 34,019 144 .. 29,000 5,019 867.882
Capital profit, £B3OB . . .. .. 376,190
To tax reserve, £B3OB 367,882
Unexplained addition, £77,000 .. 444,882
1949 . . 34,031 15 p.c. = 30,000 4,031 448,913
1950 .. 32,521 15 „ „ 30,000 2,521 451,434
Added contingency reserve, £50,000.. 501,434
1951 . . 43,062 20 p.c. = 40,000 3,062 504,496
Added contingency reserve, £7281 .. 511,777
1952 .. 54,876 15 p.c. = 30,000 24,876 586,653
The business, built up largely by the
Rudds, has its roots in Queensland’s
pioneering days. Ever since the financial
blizzard of the early 1890’s the manage-
ment has followed a cautious policy,
financially and otherwise, the aim being
to underpin the structure against the
effects of drought and possible economic
recession. As evidence of its success,
paid capital advanced from £93,750 early
in this century to £250,000 in 1918 with
the aid of only £11,250 of cash subscrip-
tions. In 1945 4s. a share (£50,000) was
returned, reducing paid capital to
£200,000 in f.-p. 16s. shares. Further-
more, shareholders have never failed to
receive a div. over the last 47 years, the
average being over 10 p.c., and when the
books last closed reserves were heaped
more than 2\ times higher than paid
capital.
The co. has always had strong con-
nections with the man on the land, especi-
ally in the centre and central-west of
the State. Since the war substantial ex-
pansion of activities, financed out of
savings, has given a fresh lustre to earn-
ings. Retail establishments, hotels and
pastoral properties have been bought, a
substantial interest has been acquired in
W. H. Paxton and Co. (Mackay), a new
tinware factory (operating 10 processes)
was erected and came into production in
March, 1950, at Rockhampton, where
new premises have also been erected to
house the travel business brought by the
associated cos. It all augurs well for
shareholders’ prospects.
Last term inflationary pressures forced
up turnover (amount not stated), giving
an exaggerated impression of real growth,
the chairman says. The improvement in
gross earnings (£311,730) was £79,885.
Including provision for depreciation,
taxation, bad debts, etc., exes. (£256,854)
gobbled £68,071 of the gain. That left
the net result £11,814 stronger at a record
£54,876. Consolidated net earnings are
not disclosed, so the position may be a
bit better than stated. The £54,876 is
equal to 27.4 p.c. on capital as against
21.5, 16.2, 17, 17 and 16.5 p.c. back to
1947. That leaves out of the reckoning
an unexplained addition of £7281 to the
contingency reserve (£57,281). On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was only
7.4 p.c. The earnings of subsidiaries have
been taken into account only to the extent
of dividends received ; so the position may
be a bit better than the parent’s own
accounts claim. The special 5 p.c. bonus
paid in 1951 to commemorate the co.’s
50th anniversary was dropped, leaving
the distribution at 15 p.c.
Outstanding feature of balance-sheet
figures was the growth of £176,211 in
stocks, to help meet which only £49,775
net was added to the moderate outside
debt: —
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Sndy. creditors* 77,388 120,275 113,701 163,476
Due subside... 90,000 122,523 171,360
Tax provision 75,645 68,110 90,735 124,216
Final div. .. 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Freeholds and
ulant . . 19,995 39,195 44,253 51,005
Shares subsids. 407,402 500,902 500,902 505,897
Slocks . . 241,529 266,997 312,121 488,332
Book debts .. 94,398 105,945 167,028 168,033
Cash .. .. 26,042 34,501 34,872 159
Investments .. 32,581 2,280 2,280 2,280
* Includes overdraft.
Shares in subsidiaries, which are repre-
sented largely by pastoral, hotel and other
properties, shot up from £49,995 in 1948
to £500,902 a couple of years later, and
now stand at £505,897, which is all repre-
sented by tangible assets, there being no
intangibles in the consolidated accounts.
Maintenance of the 15 p.c. distribution
appears as assured as anything of the
kind can be under existing conditions.
Later on shareholders might be asked
to assist in rebuilding the co.’s. Brisbane
warehouse —a year ago Capital Issues
Control turned down the board’s request
to make a one-for-one new share-issue at
a premium of 10s. a share. At 575. 3d.
(755. a year ago) the scrip gives an im-
mediate return of 4.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c. dis-
tribution. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 58s. lid. a share.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Off, Etc. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1942 .. 24,141 20,000 2,500 1,641 285,185
1943 .. 25,940 20,000 2,500 8,440 288,625
1944 .. 26,612 20,000 2,500 4,112 292,737
1945 .. 24,304 20,000 2,500 1,804 294,541
12| p.c.
1946 ~ 29,192 25,000 2,500 1,692 296,233
1947 . . 27,895 25,000 1,250 1,645 297,878
1948 .. 27,354 25,000 2,354 300,232
1949 .. 26,123 25,000 1,123 301,355
1950 .. 28,180 25,000 3,180 304,534
8 p.c.
1951 .. 17,973 16,000 1,973 306,507
4 p.c.
1952 .. 586 8,000 299,093
This is another outstanding example—
gas was the other —of shabby treatment
of shareholders as a class by the so-called
“Welfare” State in N. S. Wales. The
Perpetual, Australia’s largest trustee co.,
not only rendered extensive, essential and
efficient service to its clients below cost
last term, but actually subsidised the cost
to the full extent of earnings from share-
holders’ own funds (capital and reserves
combined) —a state of affairs which could
not continue indefinitely without extinc-
tion of the business. It all came about
through failure of the Government to
grant the co. —and other cos. operating
in the same field—timely relief from the
pressure of rising costs (chiefly wages)
against a ceiling of rigid corpus and other
commission charges, fixed as long ago as
1888. Pre-war the gains from expanding
business offset the growth in costs; now
it is the other way about, inflation being
the villain of the piece.
The volume of new business entrusted
to the co.’s expert care last term exceeded
the value of estates wound up by
£1,469,104:
Year Exes.,
Ended Ex- p.c. oi
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1939 ..£57,144,759 £178,385 £152,299 85.3
1947 . . 66,667,159 238,479 211,634 88.7
1948 . . 67,748,618 248,888 222,624 89.5
1949 .. 68,326,006 262,817 236,837 90.1
1950 . . 70,636,805 282,494 257,370 91.1
7 951 .. 72,134,670 304,758 289,659 95.0
1952 ~ 73,603,774 320,878 322,996 100.7
Income from all sources increased by
£16,120. But exes, (up £33,337) in-
creased by more than twice that amount,
and gobbled the whole of the year’s in-
come and £2llB besides. The small profit
of £586 shown in the introductory table
takes into the reckoning a net addition
of £2704 to corpus commission reserve
(£153,229), which is the unearned portion
of corpus commissions. Because of a
change in outlook, a 4 p.c. div. was paid,
reserves being drawn upon for £7414
net for the purpose. Both the net resuit
and the div. were the poorest shown and
paid by the co. since the early 1890’s.
The change came as a belated amend-
ment of the original scale of corpus com-
mission charges on the capital value of
estates as set out in the N.S.W. Trustee
Companies Act in April last —too late
to benefit the co.’s last accounts. Here
are the old and new rates:
Old Scale.
£
2i p.c. on first 50,000
li „ on next 50,000
1 „ on excess 100,000
New Scale.
£
8f p.c. on first 25,000
3 „ on next 25,000
2 ~ on next 50,000
1 „ on excess 100,000
Income commission remains unaltered at
5 p.c. on the first £2OOO and 2\ p.c. on
the balance, except in the case of rents,
on which the rate is 5 p.c. throughout, or
2-i p.c. if collected through an agent.
Another amendment to the Act provides
for special charges, to be approved by
an Equity Court judge, in respect of any
business carried on in connection with an
estate administered by a trustee co.
A formula for a sliding scale of charges
based on officially ascertained costs would
have been more equitable. Only when
a pound is a pound for a lifetime can
people think in terms of fixed'charges
and a prescribed range of investments
and still be sound in their economics.
Preservation of capital for the remainder-
man and provision of a reasonable income
for the life tenant are, in very many
cases, now virtually impossible unless
the settler “contracts out” of the Act by
including a clause in his will giving the
trustee special powers in respect of in-
vestment. Hence the need for revision of
wills and inclusion therein of such a
provision.
The new rates, however, apply only to
new business, which means slow recovery
in the earning-power of the cos. Actual
net earnings will depend largely upon
how soon the ugly costs spiral can be
arrested. At June 30 last, the co.’s own
funds, together with £41,832 coming to
creditors, etc., were represented by free-
holds, etc., £114,153 (known to be worth
a lot more), mortgages, etc., £101,297,
debtors’ balances £3314, Government
securities £226,093 and cash, etc., £96,068.
The market doesn’t expect the trustee
section of the business to turn in much,
if any, net profit for a while. After
sales at 525. (80s. a year ago), buyers
recently offered 455. for the £lO shares
paid to £2 each—£s of the remaining £8
is callable only if needed in the event or
liquidation. At the middle price (48s. 6d.)


CAPITAL
APPRECIATION
Experienced Mining Engineer
requires partner or partners
to exploit large
BEACH DEPOSITS OF
RUTILE AND ZIRCON.
Industry offers sound, assured
returns. Enquiries to Box 857,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
WOULD ALBERT GEORGE NEWHAM]
husband of ELIZABETH ESTHER
NEWHAM, or any of his descendants or
anyone knowing their whereabouts, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Marton, New Zealand?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK JOHN GIBSON late of
Randwick. —TAKE NOTICE that ETHEL
ELIZABETH GIBSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4238 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 7th day of November
1552 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. ALLAN E.
CUPIT & BEST, Solicitors, of Federal
Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Telephones: PA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corale
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
" THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
AUCTION
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, AT 11 a.m.
ON THE PROPERTY
“BANOOL,” No. 1 VIEW STREET (Cnr. Victoria Avenue),
CANTERBURY, MELBOURNE,
Near Fintona and Camberwell Grammar Schools.
Close Mont Albert Road —Valuable Corner.
GENTLEMAN’S TILED BRICK RESIDENCE
Nine Spacious Rooms, Electric H.W.S., Tiled Bathroom, Kitchen,
S.S. Sink, 2 Stoves, Int. and Ext. Toilets, Large Garage, Outbuildings,
Attractive Garden. VACANT POSSESSION.
DUNCAN & WELLER PTY., LTD., and BROOMHEAD & CO.
Station Ent., Canterbury. WF 2069.
Burke Road, Camberwell. WF 2333
Burke Road, Camberwell.
WB 1342.
CO-AUCTIONEERS.
AIDING AUSTRALIA’S ADVANCE
No. 1 of a series
'I
m
%
**msM on e*
T"
CuO
by the
thousand!
More than 520,000 commercial vehicles form the backbone of the vast
transport system constantly serving Australia. This battery of giant ‘Hamilton’ presses
at the Australian Ford Company, Geelong, is pressing and piercing Ford V.B truck chassis
just one of the operations necessary in the production of the thousands of Ford trucks
which are constantly rolling out
into service to “keep things mov-
ing” in Australian transport.
. . . and this is one of the three Fetter
diesels, totalling 1500 b.h.p.,
which BOEAUST installed to
“keep things moving” at Ford.
These dependable engines, each
direct-coupled to BRUSH alternators,
give a total output of 1243 KVA.
I m
\ rmrm f
mm
is
' 8K
•rj
«cW (
mm
m
, . i^E'
\ \ 'ii
all
BRITISH OIL ENGIHES
(A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence Street. Sydney; • 368 Collins Street, Melbourne; • Distributors in all States
EBESia (NATIONAL
Part of the Associated British Oil Engines Group now producing the largest number of industrial
diesel engines in the world.
the return would be 5.7 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis; and 7 p.c.
would call for £14,000, or only
2.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds.
Net tangible cover is 995. lid.
Hawang Tin Fields
Operating in the Rawang and
Serendah valleys, Malaya, this
co.’s two dredges have produced
the following results over the last
five years: —
Av.
Dredged Value Recovery.
Tear, ’OOO. C.y. T.o. Profit.
March, c.y. Lb. Tons. £
1918 . . 2454 .38 419.46 16,459
1949 . . 2292 .31 316.33 16,110
19o° . . 5245 .35 830.83 105,923
1951 . . 4973 j 8 1285.48 240,368
1952 . . 5593 .47 H 63.87 224,307
Although more ground was
handled last term, the grade was
lower, less tin ore was produced
(assay 74.4 p.c.) and costs were
0.69 d. a yard heavier at 9.57 d.
So, although the average price
received for the metal was £95.8
better at £929.5 per ton, the
profit was £16,016 lighter at
£224,307. That was equal to
25.6 p.c. on the £876,003 of
capital, or 2s. 6.7 d. per 10s.
share. Divs. totalled 2s. 6d. per
share (Is. 10.3 d. in the previous
year), less 30 p.c. Malayan tax,
making the net rate Is, 9d. per
share, or 17.5 p.c., which called
for £153,300, and £20,000 was
written off restoration exes.,
leaving £51,007 to carry forward.
The co. also received £31,263
for loss of tin-ore, spares, etc.
during the Jap occupation, as
well as £199,829 (75 p.c.) on
account of war-damage claims
totalling £266,493, leaving
££6,664 still to come. All but
£25,570 of the £199,829 was
used to wipe off a Government
rehabilitation loan (£174,259).
And there is a further £26,666
to come in respect of the co.’s
one-third interest in the Bangtoe
property (Thailand), which was
recently sold to London-con-
trolled Kamunting Tin Dredging
for a total of £BO,OOO.
When the books closed stores
figured at £295,384, concentrates
and debtors’ balances totalled
£54,712 and cash, etc., £825,412.
Including the final div. current
liabilities amounted to £132,506.
So the co. is well equipped to
meet the cost of transferring its
dredges to new ground.
No. 2 machine closed down
on April 24 last, having com-
pleted productive operations on
the Serendah area. It is to be
dismantled, transferred and re-
erected on the Sungei Choh area,
adjacent to new leases totalling
645 acres, where average bore-
values (unstated) are “consider-
ably” lower than on the old
property. It is not expected that
this dredge will be at work again
before the end of 1953. The
co.’s application for mining title
to a further 203 acres in the
Sungei area is still under con-
sideration.
It is anticipated that the
other dredge will have worked
out the profitable ground in
its present area about the third
quarter of 1953, when it, too,
“will have to be moved else-
where.” Last term it dug
3,002,000 of .441 b. ground
for 591.73 tons tin-ore at an
average cost of 9.07 d. a yard.
Appearances are, therefore, that
this machine earned a little over
half last term’s operating profit.
The co, also owns 63,800 £1
shares in Rawang Concession,
which paid 15s. a share less
30 p.c. Malayan tax last term.
What profits are likely to be
won from the new area can only
be guessed at in the absence of
bore-values. The other two
imponderables are costs and
metal prices. Last week the
London spot-price of tin was
£5963. The board says share-
holders “must not expect sensa-
tional results from future opera-
tions.”
The co.’s scrip, which had
dropped to 6s. 6d. in 1951, is
now priced at 12s. 9d.
Kangaroo Mining Co., N.L.,
an Adelaide concern which is on
the hunt for wolfram and schee-
lite in Centralia, has abandoned
its free sampling option over the
old Hit and Miss mine at
Hatches Creek because it was
unable to agree on the terms
asked. The board is now con-
sidering another and “attrac-
tive” proposition on the same
field that would require less
capital outlay. Kangaroo has
the same board as Pioneer
Scheelite, and if the new pros-
pect, details of which are to be
announced presently, is taken
up the ore will probably be
crushed at the Pioneer Mill,
which looks like coming into
action about the end of this
month, well ahead of schedule
date.
* * * *
Australian Development, N.L.,
which continues to strike it rich
at Noble’s Knob, on the patchy
Tennant Creek field, will pay
another 6d. a share (£75,000) on
September 30, making total div.
payments £825,000. Paid capi-
tal is £150,000 in Is. shares,
which have had a fairly steady
market within the 18s.-20s,
bracket since the beginning of
1952,


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Full of color was the opening in the
Exhibition Building of the eighth session
of the Australasian Medical Congress by
the Governor-General. The dominant
masculine note was scarlet. Sydney
M.D.s had purple-lined hoods for their
scarlet gowns. Their Melbourne con-
freres with their scarlet gowns had
crimson-lined hoods. Black gowns with
scarlet-lined hoods gave Sydney’s Masters
of Surgery distinction. There were scarlet
facings to the black gowns worn by
Fellows of the Royal College of
Physicians, and deeper scarlet facings on
the black gowns which mark the Fellows
of the Royal College of Surgeons. The
black gowns of the Fellows of the Royal
Australasian College of Surgeons were
gold-faced. The opening ceremonies over,
guests moved into the warmer atmosphere
of the Royale ballroom, where, after
supper, there was dancing.
Sir John Newman Morris, president of
the congress, was host and his daughter,
Mrs. H. A. Standish, hostess. Her bouffant
misty-blue tulle gown was covered by a
stunning full-length coat of gold brocade.
From Perth came Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
Hunt and Dr. and Mrs. R. Nattrass.
Adelaide visitors included Dr. and Mrs.
Rex Matters and Dr. and Mrs. Upton.
Over from Sydney was former Miss Aus-
tralia, Judy Gainford, who is now wife of
Dr. R. P. Melville. Her attractive frock
was of cornflower-blue satin-striped
cotton. Mrs. Collins, wbo accompanied
Dr. J. A. Collins, president of the Federal
Council of the 8.M.A., wore a lovely
gown of grey Chantilly lace embroidered
with matching sequins ; to this she added
a dyed-ermine jacket. Mrs. Charles Byrne,
whose husband, Dr. Byrne, is president of
the Victorian branch of the 8.M.A.,
covered her del-blue velvet frock with a
full-length grey velvet coat. The Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. John Inkster, wore green
satin brocade with a matching bolero.
The blaze of color which made the
opening of the Medical Congress a
notable function was repeated later in the
Town Hall, when the Chancellor of the
University, Sir Charles Lowe, presented
overseas visitors famous in the world of
medicine with honorary degrees. Sir
Victor Hurley, who later in the evening
delivered the Simpson Newland Oration,
was a striking figure in his black gown
with its facings of bright yellow. In the
large audience were Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins and Lady Collins, and the
American Consul - General, Henry
Stebbins, and Mrs. Stebbins. Mrs. A. E.
Coates was accompanied by her house-
guests Dr. and Mrs. Cotter-Harvey and
their daughter Clodah, of Sydney, and
Dr. Conrad Herschfield, of Brisbane.
Drs. Lucy Bryce, Jean Littlejohn and
Margaret Troup were in academic dress,
and others noted were Mrs. David Body-
comb, Lady Hurley, Lady Lowe, Dr. and
Mrs. B. Hamilton, of Hobart, and Mrs.
Norman Lee, who with her husband came
from Sydney for the congress.
Many parties were given before the
ball, which was the grand finale to the
week of Medical Congress. Dr.
John Summons, Dr. Robert Brodie
and Dr. Edward Rosanove invited
more than 150 guests to a buffet-
dinner party in the Venetian Court
of the Australia. A halter - necked
bodice of white organdie topped the
slim black skirt of ottoman silk worn
by Mrs. Summons ; her white organdie
stole was finished with a deep frill.
Mrs. Brodie wore a Maggy Rouff
gown of pale-gold wool sheer ; groupings
of pleats highlighted the skirt, and the
bodice was encrusted with gold and seed-
pearls. Among the guests were Sir
Samuel Burston and Lady Burston, she
wearing a graceful gown of dove-grey
satin ; and Mrs. P. Moran, whose lovely
bouffant gown was of white satin. Pastel-
pink chiffon with tobacco-brown velvet
straps finishing the swathed bodice was
the choice of Mrs. H. Furnell. Mrs. Frank
May wore black crepe, the bodice
clustered with jet beading. A frock of
pastel-pink lace, the pattern outlined with
sequins, was worn by Mrs. Roy Grounds.
The Medical Congress Ball at the
Royale ballroom was attended by the
Governor and Lady Brooks. The advent
of spring was heralded by the floral decor,
which was carried out with spring flowers
and red and pink camellias scattered on
every table. Official guests were received
by the president of the congress, Sir John
Newman Morris, who was assisted by his
daughter, Mrs. H. A. Standish. A full-
skirted gown of ice-blue satin was worn
by Lady Brooks ; sequins on bodice and
shoulder-straps were most effective. Mrs.
Standish covered her bouffant gown of
aqua-blue georgette with a lace stole.
Mrs. Charles Byrne, who with her
husband, Dr. Byrne (he is president of the
Victorian branch of the 8.M.A.), was
also in the official party, wore sequin-
scattered mauve taffeta.
With the Lord Mayor, Cr. O. J.
Nilsen, was his daughter, Mrs. John
Inkster, making their last official appear-
ances—a new Lord Mayor has been
elected. Mrs. Inkster’s off-the-shoulder
gown was of cornflower-blue and gold
brocade, the skirt having a back floating-
panel which fell into a short train. Lady
Hurley’s graceful gown was of midnight-
blue satin. Outstanding was the black
organdie creation chosen by Margaret
Cochran. The skirt was appliqued with
white organdie flowers and cut into a
wide bell-shape. Mrs. M. Renou allied a
lilac tulle skirt with a bodice of waffle
taffeta which continued into a deep side-
peplum. Over her wide-skirted gold satin
frock Mrs. Cecil Cantor wore a Toreador
jacket of black velvet, heavily beaded and
braided. Pastel-pink chiffons which had
beads and rhinestones on the bodice
fashioned the gown of Mrs. L. Johnston.
Ice-blue and wine-toned satin floating-
panels over black satin made neat effect
for Mrs. Norman Wettenhall. Two girls
who worked hard at the ball were Deidre
Southby and Mary Byrne ; they took the
many telephone-calls from patients who
wanted doctors.
Toorak College, Mt. Eliza, has joined
the Victorian Drama League, and to
stimulate interest in the theatre students
staged “Hamlet.” Irene Mitchell was the
producer, the cast all-feminine. The
result was excellent, the sequences of the
play moving with sureness and smooth-
ness. Acting honors went to Geraldine
Burston in the title role. Shirley Norway,
daughter of author Nevile Shute, was
Polonius, Jenny Bartlam portrayed
Laertes and Gillian Barton-Wright made
a most imposing King of Denmark. In
the audience were Colonel and Mrs. S. E.
Burston, Lady Herring, Kathleen Syme,
Gertrude Johnson, Mrs. Trevor Oldham,
Mrs. Charles Reid and her midshipman
son Anthony, Mrs. Evan Pierce, Prof.
Keith Macartney, the Derek Hartleys and
daughter Susan, and Mrs. Constance Day
and her schoolgirl daughter Deanna.
Here is Mrs. Phoebe Buchanan, wife of
Dr. James Buchanan, of Toorak, who
has been hostess for several functions
arranged for the medical congress. Mrs.
Buchanan is the mother of four daughters,
all teenagers and still at school. Always
attractively dressed to suit her fair color-
ing, Mrs. Buchanan is a member of many
charitable committees, and one of her
relaxations for rare leisure hours is
attending a race-meeting. She was
recently seen in a new role, when, instead
of being one of the mannequins, she ably
acted as compere for the mannequin-
parade held at the South Yarra home of
Lady Gengoult Smith. This was staged
for the entertainment of wives of medical
men frorp other States here for the
congress.
There were 150 guests at the buffet-
dinner party which several hostesses gave
at Mrs. T. "G. Jones’s lovely Elsternwick
home for inter-State and overseas medical
men and their wives. They included
Mrs. J. E. Shilliday, in a short dinner-
frock of dove-grey Chantilly lace; Mrs.
Frank May, whose amethyst crepe frock
had a side drape ; Mrs. Robert Southby,
who wore an iridescent shot-green
brocade, and Mrs. S. E. Courtney, in a
floral gown. Hilary Cooper, attractive in
a white Swiss-embroidered organza redin-
gote over beige satin, and her sister
Cynthia, in a heavenly-blue tulle strapless
gown, assisted their mother, Mrs. Frank
May. Wanda Shilliday, in a strapless
gown of deep-wine satin, and Deidre
Southby were also of great help.
From Sydney
Spring officially begins this week, and the
juke-boxes in Sydney town recall the voice
of a 16th-century poet who spake thus;
“In every street these tunes our ears do
greet,
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo,
Spring the sweet Spring!”
This is Julitha Walsh, essentially of
Mileura, Murchison (W.A.), but at the
moment of Sydney, who has been occupy-
ing her time since she arrived here with
writing and speaking on the radio. Her
radio talks mainly deal with aspects of
aboriginal life, which have been her
interest and study ever since she left
school and took up work on her father’s
threequarter-million acre property in
W.A. Since her father’s death three years
ago Julitha has become fully qualified
as a stock-girl. She is due to give a
series of five talks in October over the
A.B.C. mainly dealing with life in the
Western State and the ways of the
aborigines as she has observed them.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Social life for the past week has been
dominated (not to say dazzled) by the
color and pageantry of the University’s
finale to its two-year period of centenary
celebration. The brilliance and dignity of
the proceedings, with their perfect or-
ganisation, brought back for a short space
to Sydney the more vivid and compelling
features of medieval life.
Thursday was Graduates Day, when
both the Women’s College and Sancta
Sophia College held reunion luncheons.
Many alumni vfsited their University de-
partments during the morning and
attended the garden-party in the quad-
rangle in the afternoon. The following
day saw the conferring of honorary
degrees on leading citizens at a most
dignified and beautiful ceremony in the
Great Hall, and on Sunday church-
services at the leading city churches were
attended by members of the University
Senate and staff, with many hundreds
of graduates and undergraduates in
academic dress.
Everything about the musicale in the
Great Hall on Monday night seemed to
be in keeping with the beauty of the hall
itself. To the music of Brahms and
Beethoven was added the exquisite
musicianship of Beatrice Tange, Ernest
Llewellyn and Hans George in a setting
of nobility and grace. Elizabeth North-
cott, who was present with Sheila Collett,
was welcomed by Mrs. S. H. Roberts,
wife of the Vice-Chancellor, whose guests
also included Sir Douglas and Lady Cop-
land, with daughter Rosemarie wearing
sprigged blue organdie. The new canvas
chairs were used in the hall for the first
time, and the flower decorations consisted
of one huge bowl of arum-lilies and
strelitzia which seemed perfect in the
setting. It was a frosty night and only
about 350 people were present, but the
candle-like gaslights in the hall seemed
to warm things up and it was not un-
comfortably cold. Those who missed this
musicale missed something rare and
beautiful.
’The Governor received the University
delegates at Government House on Tues-
day evening when spring blossom decor-
ated all the reception-rooms. Among the
visitors was Madame Ada Chung, of
Hong Kong University, the only woman
delegate from overseas. Madame Chung
said that it was not strange that Hong
Kong should send a woman, as there were
very many more women on the staff at
its university than at other universities.
This she thought was due to the domestic
help available in Hong Kong, which set
more women free for academic careers.
Mrs. Ri W. Whyte, who represented
Michigan (U.S.A.), was also a delegate.
She is at present living at Cremorne.
For the rest of the week one brilliant
ceremony followed upon another. The
Lord Mayor’s reception at the Town Hall
on Wednesday was one where the apparel
of the men far outshone that of the
women, for, although some of the gowns
on close inspection were a little tattered
with honorable age, the sum total was
splendid. The Chancellor of the Uni-
versity, Sir Charles Bickerton Blackburn
(who was accompanied by his daughter-
in-law, Mrs. Ruthven Blackburn), was
robed in black with gold braid. The
gowns of the Vice-Chancellor, Professor
S. H. Roberts, and the Deputy-Chancellor,
Mr. Justice Roper, are similar to this, and
are perhaps the most striking of all the
gowns. Sir Douglas Copland and Sir
Robert Garran, resplendent in red-anci-
blue, looked outstanding, but the science
professors from Adelaide with ther red-
and-yellow made a good effect, especially
en masse. Mr. Justice the Hon. K. W.
Street, coming into this assembly in
“civvies,” said he felt quite abashed,
though had he worn his full-bottomed wig
he would no doubt have carried the day.
A very large party assembled to see the
Society of Artists’ Spring Exhibition
opened. At the sherry party one noticed
Mary Edwards, Betty James in a dashing
red coat, Lorna Harvey wearing a hat of
pineapple fibre, Miss Thompson, from
Launceston, Elaine Haxton, Dorothy
Helmrich, Margaret Lord in a very very
smart Paris suit and black hat, Mrs. Harry
Twigden, Mrs. Charles Meere and the
Erik Langkers. Lloyd Rees in his speech
said that never before had so much space
been allotted to so few pictures, so that
each could be seen to its best advantage.
Queenslander Robert Campbell opened
the exhibition with a speech both interest-
ing and short.
One of the nicest ornaments seen
around town is the rosy apple that Nancy
Shankland pins to her lapel. Nancy is
very busy with the subscription-lists for
the opera season in 1953 —“You have
to begip so early,” she says. Subscribers
are given concession-rates for the season,
but it would be wise to apply now, for
the lists fill up very quickly.
The Mercury Theatre has had a “face-
lift” during the past week and appeared
at the opening night of “The Witch” very
much rejuvenated. The walls are a rich
with gold, the curtain a dramatic
red. It was said that the director hadn’t
expected the curtain to be quite like that,
but it was very striking. This premiere,
which marks the beginning of the
theatre’s brave six-nights-per-week pro-
gramme, was attended by a large number
of theatre and radio folk, includ-
ing A 1 Thomas and Chips Rafferty.
Mrs. Rodney Taylor, whose husband
has the chief role in the play, took
all eyes with her dark beauty emphasised
by black lace and diamente. She was
with her mother, Mrs. W. Sturt Taylor,
and Mrs. R. E. Wells. As the play is
about Norway it was not surprising to
see in the audience Mr. and Mrs. Arnold
Svensen (he is Vice-Consul for Norway).
Mrs. Svensen’s dress was deep-cream
moire-faille.
Mrs. Hope Gibson, who has gone to
Cobbitty for a short holiday, is looking
forward to the return of son John from
England with his wife, the former Joan
Kerr. The young couple intend to settle
permanently in Australia.
There are two Dr. Kluckhorns in Syd-
ney at present —surely an event to be
celebrated. One is Dr. Clyde, who is
professor of anthropology at Harvard
University. The other is his wife
Florence, also of Harvard University,
also an anthropologist. Dr. Kluckhorn
(Florence) says that women generally are
more interested in her scientifically-
designed and specially-built kitchen than
in her research, which deals with the
cultural differences in the lives of
Spanish-Americans and Anglo-Ameri-
cans. Dr. Kluckhorn says that many
American women successfully com-
bine a career with marriage (she herself
has kept house and reared a son, Richard,
now 18, while pursuing her anthropolo-
gical research), but that real creativity in
the home needs to be emphasised. Even
here she has heard women saying “Oh,
I’m just a housewife.” The Dr. Kluck-
horns have been visiting Sydney for the
A.N.Z.A.A.S. conference which finished
this week.
There is a good deal of talk anci
advertisement at present about fabrics
called “Everglaze,” but “Everglaze” ss
not so much a fabric as a chemical and
mechanical process that makes cotton
step up into the class of tie-silk, brocade,
pique and the most aristocratic of its own
class, Sea Island cotton. Of course it
doesn’t look exactly like these things, out
it makes a very good try, and must be
very good for business in the American
and Egyptian cotton country. Everglaze
isn’t merely like glazed chintz; to quote
the advertisers and to put it simply
“Co-polymerization of selected melomine
resins make permanent changes on the
fibre, giving it its new qualities.” Ana
that should be quite enough for today,
thank you.


When it's an
Exide—you start!
txih
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX 2.26
PERSONAL ITEMS
A flier takes over S. Australia’s Gover-
norship from a long line of soldiers —
Sir Robert George, Air-Vice-Marshal, did,
however, start off military, in the
Seaforths, serving with them in France
in War I. Before it ended he had time
to change to the R.F.C., fighter-pilot,
and to win M.C. The new Governor
reveals-—as has come to be expected of
the Old Country in scientific “firsts”—
that the R.A.F. led the field in the then-
new art of divebombing. His “amuse-
ment” in the early 1930’s was putting old
Hawker Dart biplanes (fathers of Hurri-
canes) into wing-shaking power-dives.
But the British did not pursue the science
Fritz did, with satisfying results for
Hitler in War 11. Air Attache in Paris
since 1945, Sir Robert has done, much to
help build up the French Air Force, and
had a hand in its rocket developmental
research, his rocket interest being one
reason why he was keen to accept the S.
Australian appointment. A tall, military-
looking 55, he has two of his three sons
in the R.A.F., flying Meteor jets.
“Cauboy”: Douglas Stewart is prob-
ably the first Australian playwright to
incur the fate that Shaw dreaded —of
having his plays made into textbooks.
Stewart’s verse-drama “Ned Kelly” has
been made into a matriculation test in
Victorian schools this year, and one
school—Camberwell Grammar —has just
given it a week’s run in a theatre built
from two old Army huts by masters and
pupils. The entire school has had some-
thing to do with the production, the art
department doing the painting and decor,
and the school’s printing-press turning out
programmes and tickets. Two masters,
Max Howell and Peter Thody, were
responsible for the production.
Medicine in Melbourne:
A medical Olympiad started the other day in
Melbourne, when over 1200 surgeons, phy-
sicians, specialists and obstetricians met at the
university for the eighth session of the Aus-
tralasian Medical Congress—which, by accident,
coincides with the centenary of the forma-
tion of the Victorian Medical Association.
Leading the procession bearing the torch of
knowledge is Sir Gordon Gordon-Taylor, author-
ity on anatomy, cancer and surgery in the
British Army. As Surgeon Rear-Admiral he
was in Melbourne with the British Pacific Fleet
in the late shindy. Next in interest is Canadian
Professor C. H. Best, world authority on dia-
betes, who as a fifth-year medical student dis-
covered insulin with a fellow-worker. From
Wales comes Professor Lambert Rogers (born
in Melbourne and educated at Melbourne High
School), consultant in neuro-surgery to the
Royal Navy and representative of the B.M.A.
in London. The U.S. sends Dr. Algernon E.
Reese, world-known for his ophthalmological
findings. Dr. N. M. Gregg, another eye-
specialist, comes from Sydney with some new
things to say about the relationship between
German measles and abnormalities in the new-
born baby. British physician Dr. Avery Jones
is a world authority on ulcers; Professor E. C.
Dodds, of Middlesex, has a method of treating
cancer in the prostate gland, as well as other
medical discoveries, to his credit. Dr. John
Foster, another Briton, has brought to Mel-
bourne an acrylic plastic lens used successfully
in cataract operations. President of the con-
gress is Sir John Newman-Morris. Papers will
be delivered by over 100 doctors, in which
almost as much Latin as English will be spoken.
N.S.W. Railways Commissioner Keith
Fraser, who has passed on in Sydney,
came back from the war-time Middle
East with 0.8. E. and a remarkable repu-
tation among British Army engineers.
In 10 months he laid a 4ft. Biin.
gauge railway over mountains-of-the-
moon limestone country between
Beirut and Tripoli, in Syria—French
engineers having suggested that the
job would take three years. As
mark of his Digger construction-corps,
he set Rising Sun insignia on a pier of
each bridge; and, at the spot where
General Alexander drove in the last
spike, carved from the living rock is a
plaque of Jack Moses’s Gundagai towser.
Other projects on which Fraser left his
mark are the Museum, St. James, Town
Hall and Wynyard railway-stations and
tunnels, as well as the Hawkesbury River
bridge. His grandfather was N.S.W. Rail-
ways’ chief civil-engineer ; his father was
*
also that, as well as Commissioner. So
Fraser repeated his father’s record. Fifty-
nine, he had been Commissioner for only
seven months.
Adventures by flood and field, above
and below ground, filled the working life
of John Martin O’Dea, passed on in
Perth at 96. A native of County Clare,
he reached Westralia in the ship Marie in
1866. With John Forrest on several
exploration treks, O’Dea was later
assistant-surveyor to Alexander Forrest
in the north-west. When Qobb and Co.
opened coach-service between Fre-
mantle and Perth, O’Dea was one of their
first drivers; he also drove one of the
first bullock-teams between Perth and
Northam. With gold discovered in the
roaring ’nineties,, he adopted a simpler
mode of transport, pushing his belongings
on a wheelbarrow from Southern Cross
to Coolgardie in 1892. He had much
experience of prospecting in those
strenuous days, and was at Widgiemooltha
when Paddy Hannan made his famous
strike at what is now Kalgoorlie, Among
the old-timer’s varied experiences were
two shipwrecks, one of which was the
grounding of the salt-ship Macedon off
Rottnest.
Met at Mascot, Sir John Cockcroft,
having left his beloved Gleep and Bepo
at Harwell for the A.N.Z.A.A.S. con-
ference in Sydney. The Gleep (graphite
low energy experimental pile) consists of
several hundred tons of graphite and a
few tons of uranium; its job, among
other little details which won’t be gone
into here, is to produce radioactive
isotopes for biological and scientific
research. The Bepo (British experimental
pile) is designed to develop 6000 kilowatts
of heat in its uranium bars. This is the
bird which is surrounded by several feet
of concrete shield, as protection from the
nastiness going on inside. Which should
indicate that Sir John knows a bit about
atomic energy, he having been director
of Harwell since 1946. A slightly-built,
quietly-spoken scientist whose pleasant,
bespectacled face offers no indication of
the cataclysmic energy he’s capable of
releasing, Cockcroft learnt his atoms with
Lord Rutherford, while that distinguished
Enzedder was developing his Cavendish
laboratory at Cambridge. In 1932 Cock-
croft achieved world fame by demonstrat-
ing, for the first time, the breaking-up of
ATOMS.
lithium atoms by bombardment with high-
speed protons. His effort was recognised
with a Fellowship of the Royal Society,
and award of the Hughes Medal. As well
as his atomic research in Canada towards
the end of the war, he was in the thick
of the welcome the Old Dart gave to the
Luftwaffe. Chief superintendent of Air
Defence Research, Cockcroft had much
to do, through his development of radar
and precision anti-aircraft gunnery, with
splitting Heinkels and Messerschmitts into
their component parts. Likeness by
Lusby.
Advertised here by Fenner, G. L.
Bride, one of Australia’s biggest noises
in the realm of advertising, has had an
apprenticeship to both sides of the busi-
ness. As Australian representative of
several British firms he looked after the
distribution and marketing of a wide
range of products before he joined Gold-
berg Advertising in 1941 as general-
manager. Three years ago he acquired,
with partners, the Melbourne and Adelaide
companies known as Aldwych Advertis-
ing. He is chairman of the Australian
Association of Advertising Agencies in
Victoria and president of the Institute
of Sales and Business Management. Under
the aegis of the last-named concern, he has
ADVERTISING.
launched a series of lectures on sales-
manship whose theme-song is a challenge
to sales-executives to prove their capacity
to sell the goods our industries are pro-
ducing.
New head of Westralia’s C. 1.8.
Inspector Hugh McLernon has family
links with criminal investigation. His
father, also an inspector at the end of
his service, was one of Westralia’s best-
known C. 1.8. men for many years, and
his son is in the same branch of the
Force. The new chief, a lithe 51, took
up his baton in 1920, at the age of 21, and
became a detective-sergeant in 1937,
Since 1949 he has been senior lecturer at
the Gold-stealing Detection Branch at
Kalgoorhe.
After 40 years with the New Zealand
Department of Agriculture, the last four
as veterinary adviser to the High Com-
missioner in London, Dr. C. S, M.
Hopkirk reckons he’s had enough in the
department. Gaining his Doctorate of
Veterinary Science at Melbourne Uni-
versity, he did solid work at Wallaceville
animal-research station, particularly in
combating mastitis, and represented the
Fernland at several international con-
ferences. After War II he was appointed
senior vet. for U.N.R.R.A. in Europe and
China. Now, in “retirement,” he’s off to
Ethiopia, mission-chief for the food and
agriculture organisation of the U.N.
Passed on in Berwick (Vic.), Rupert
Sumner Ryan, M.H.R., C.M.G., who
gave a special touch of distinction to
Canberra debates. Only son of a
medico and soldier, Major-General Sir
Charles Ryan, he was educated at
Geelong Grammar, went to Harrow and
Woolwich Royal Military Academy and
came top of his year. With the Royal
Horse Artillery in War I, he gained
D.S.O. and five “mentions,” ending as
lieutenant-colonel. After that conflict he
went as deputy to the Earl of Erroll as
High Commissioner of the Rhineland, in
1924 married the Earl’s daughter, and
after the death of the Earl in 1929 acted
as commissioner in the occupied lands.
In 1948 he studied occupation policy
again, this time in lapan as a member of
a Parliamentary delegation. An accom-
plished linguist, he had been agent for the
British Government and Vickers in selling
armaments to Siam, Nepal and other
Asian countries. In 1936 he returned
to Australia and took over the Ryan
property at Berwick, near Melbourne,
making a study of pasture-improvement,
for which he won many prizes. A noted
horseman and steeplechaser in his young
days, he rode at the great horse tourna-
ments at Olympia, He was a brother-in-
law of R. G. Casey,
A mort of hospital experience gained
in the contrasting climates of the U.K.,
Iceland, India and Burma comes to the
Fremantle General Hospital along with
medico John Hughes, who succeeds
J. M. M. Drew as medical superintendent
there. The new man, an F.R.C.S. of
London, served with the R.A.F. from
1940 to 1946, mostly in charge of surgical
work in R.A.F. hospitals, and he opened
and administered the British Red Cross
Hospital at Rawalpindi, in Pakistan.
Since 1949 he has been surgeon to the
combined military services in Karachi,
and in charge of post-graduate courses in
the surgical department there.
“C. 8.”; Glenara, at Bulla, the last of
the old colonial baronial estates close to
Melbourne, is to go under the hammer.
Its 1000 acres lie alongside the main road
to Sydney in one of the most desolate
landscapes in the State, and a passing
motorist would never see it; but go
through a gate down a dip between an
avenue of trees, and you are in a lush
garden full of streams and gullies, with
the old homestead and its barns and stables
and the last stand left of the original tall
gums—and, of interest to all rose-lovers,
the steep strip where the late Alister
Clark, its last owner, raised the Lorraine
Lee, Sunny South, Black Boy and other
famous roses, also daffodils that got him
awards in England. There must be
billions of Lorraine Lees blooming about
the world, and they all stemmed from this
rather awkward hillside up and down
which Clark still climbed when he was
over 80. The Clarks were graziers,
vignerons and horse-breeders, and over
100 hunters and their riders used to
rendezvous at the homestead on Hunt
Club days for dinner. Now, with the
sale of Glenara, the chief remaining
memorial to Clark is a rose-garden at St.
Kilda.
“Uramao”: Moved into the Chair of
Botany at Otago University (N.Z.), G. T.
S. Baylis is the first New Zealand-born
Professor of Botany in the Dominion.
He botanised at the Imperial College of
Science and Technology at London Uni-
versity, and in War II served in the Navy,
first in the Pacific and later teaching how
and where depth-charges should flower,
as an instructor at the Enzed anti-sub-
marine school. He is one of the few
botanists to explore the Three Kings
Islands, which are practically a no-man’s-
land due to difficulty of access.
Into the Silence;
In Sydney, at 76, Henry Charles Carter,
Country-party M.L.A. for Liverpool Plains for
12 years till 1940. Born in Norfolk (Eng.), he
rose from a farmhand on Baroona station,
Singleton, to manager of Mooki Springs,
Quirindi, as well as qualifying as a veterinary
surgeon with a sound knowledge of agricultural
chemistry. In public life he was a shire coun-
cillor and president of the Repatriation Depart-
ment at Quirindi.
In Melbourne, at 89, William Holms Wad-
dell, a Glaswegian who rose from printer’s
devil on the “Federal Australian” to general-
manager. Founder of the Victorian Country
Press Association, he was a former senior
partner of the Mercantile Exchange and
manager of the Country Press Association. A
fluent advocate in arbitration and conciliation
courts, Waddell had been a member of Heidel-
berg City Council for 18 years.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 80, W. A. R. Fitchett,
for 18 years Bishop of the Dunedin diocese.
Son of Dean Fitchett, he graduated B.A. and
M.A. at Cambridge and was ordained in 1901.
He was a nephew of that Fitchett of Deeds
That Won the Empire.
At 76, in Melbourne, Dr. Edward Joseph
Stuckey, 0.8. E., for 35 years a missionary in
China. He was with the Chinese Labor Corps
in France in War I.
At 60, in Sydney, Keith McKeown, than
whom few men had looked under more logs
and stones in pursuit of his abiding interest,
insects. A dry-faced, intense little man who
could talk as interestingly as he wrote on his
subject, McKeown was Assistant Curator of
Insects at the Australian Museum in Sydney,
and had put his knowledge between the covers
of several books. His latest, Australian
Spiders (reviewed Red Page 30/7/’52), was
published a few weeks ago.


LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
:
- U
mmm
mi
T 1
n>
s
o.
TO
>-* •
CD
LYSAGHTS
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" W IRE, WIRE NETTING,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Free Bulls for Soldiers.
“Doddie Boy”: Increasing
numbers of Aberdeen-Angus
cattle are now reaching the
principal fat-stock markets. An
analysis of types of matured fat-
stock offered at auction in the
past few months showed A.-A.
increases of 10 p.c. at Homebush
(Sydney) and 20 p.c. at New-
market (Melbourne).
The substantial Victorian in-
crease is largely due to extension
of pasture-improvement. It is
claimed that the quick-maturing
quality of Aberdeen-Angus and
their high prepotency make them
the most suitable beef for this
type of farming, which depends
on a rapid turnover.
In the last 30 months nearly
1000 head of pedigree A.-A. have
gone into beef-production areas,
and 39 new studs were estab-
lished between 1949 and 1951,
some in localities hitherto con-
sidered unsuitable for beef.
The Aberdeen-Angus Society
will make pedigree A.-A. bulls
available free to soldier-settlers
engaged in beef-cattle produc-
tion, and State Premiers will be
asked to administer the scheme.
The plan provides for dona-
tion of up to 100 pure-bred
registered bulls this year for
allocation to soldier-settlement
areas; official quality and pre-
potency testing of the bulls;
free transport of gift bulls from
studs to settlement centres;
allocation of agistment areas for
ex-servicemen’s cattle during the
short mating season.
The scheme will be continued
as long as may be necessary to
stock soldier-settlement holdings
with high-producing animals. It
is hoped to begin operations
from December. A date for the
first delivery of bulls will be
decided at a conference in Mel-
bourne on September 17.
Vic. Herd Test.
“Mr.”: Victorian herd cham-
pionship award this year went
to H. Jackson’s 27 Jerseys
(Lockington, Vic.), which
averaged 5861 b. of butterfat.
Runner-up was R. J. Hansford’s
25 Jerseys from Le Roy stud,
with an average yield of 5381 b.
of fat. Dr, A. R. Haywood’s
33 Jerseys ran third with a
butterfat average of 5341 b.
The 8610 cows which finished
the test comprised 3017 mature
cows averaging 3391 b., 1239
four-year-olds (3181 b.), 1602
three-year-olds (3001 b.) and
2752 two-year-olds (2721 b.). The
3061 b. average of all cows repre-
sented a fall of 41b. on 1951.
This year 285 cows exceeded
5001 b. of butterfat, 47 gave
6001 b. or more and 11 topped
the 7001 b. mark.
Highest-producing cow for
the year (7971 b. of fat) was last
year’s champion, Yarraview
Golden Daffodil, a seven-year-
old Guernsey owned by Capt.
A. E. T. Payne, of Lilydale, but
as she didn’t calve within the
specified 15 months, she was in-
eligible for the championship.
which went to her four-year-old
herd-mate, Yarraview Admira-
tion, with 7831 b. of fat. This
young cow has an aggregate of
28511 b. of butterfat in four com-
pleted lactations, and is the
sixth cow from Payne’s herd to
win a championship in the last
nine years.
Reserve champion was Dr.
A. R. Haywood’s 14-year-old
Jersey, Chevy’s Beauty, with a
yield of 7451 b. In 12 lactations
this cow has aggregated 70671 b.
Take-all in Wheat.
“Obolus”: Recent field obser-
vations on take-all in England
have shown that the fungus
thrives between wheat crops on
highly available nitrogen in the
soil, and that it can be starved
Tsl<\CK,
“I always knew that one day my prince Would come."
to an appreciable extent,
especially by tolerant crops
during that period. On the
other hstad, the damage done by
the fungus to the roots of a
growing wheat crop is quickly
repaired by high soil-fertility.
Under Australian conditions,
therefore, the best prevention
against damage and loss of yield
is to raise the fertility of the
soil by pastures, especially those
resistant to take-all, and then
grow resistant oat crops for
grazing alternatively with wheat.
Rhodes Grass.
“Hortus”; Rhodes-grass is
one of the best grass-covers,
being drought-resistant, able to
stand up to heavy rainfall and
extreme cold and heat, though
not frost when young.
The runners often extend as
far as 14ft., taking root all the
way. This makes it ideal for
grassed waterways and slopes,
where it minimises risk of
erosion.
It may be sown by itself with
super. (Icwt. to the acre) at the
rate of 41b. to 51b. per acre, or
with wheat (north-west N.S.W.)
as a cover crop. With clover
there’s nothing choicer for a
permanent pasture.
If sown with clover care must
be taken to make the clover rate
fairly light, because clover ger-
minates more satisfactorily than
other grasses, and its growth is
generally more vigorous.
Owing to its drought-resistant
quality, Rhodes would prove a
great asset on the plains. Strips
sown across the plains would not
only act as fire-breaks but also
provide good grazing.
Don’t overstock Rhodes in the
early stages. Wait at least three
months after striking and then
graze on a rotation system.
The Boobialla.
“Breck”: In the tree-starved
interior the boobialla (Myo-
porum montanum ) withstands
prolonged droughts, its foliage
often the only green in the land-
scape.
A small tree, it is easily grown
from seed, which needs no pre-
sowing treatment. Plant in tins
provided with good drainage
and filled with sandy soil. Soak
the soil well before adding the
seed, which should be covered
with a layer of earth equivalent
to the seed’s width. Seedlings
from beneath parent trees can
be successfully transplanted
when 2in. to Sin. high in the
spring.
When planting on the per-
manent site give the seedling a
good start by digging a hole 2ft.
square and 18in. deep and
drenching with water. Guard
from stock and rabbits and leave
it to set about its own establish-
ment. It will make fairly rapid
growth,
Boobialla has a shapely,
densely-foliaged head which
makes it ideal for short wind-
breaks in double or triple rows.
Planted in groves of six or seven
trees or along the fences of stock
paddocks it provides good
shelter for horses and cattle.
Some farmers declare it makes
good fodder, others that even
goats won’t touch it. Play safe
and give it protection.
Kikuyu.
“lan Ronald”: It is not
correct (B. 16/7/’52) that all the
kikuyu in Australia is descended
from one plant grown from seed
at the Botanic Gardens, Sydney.
About 1922 an uncle sent my
father a collection of grasses and
seeds from Southern Rhodesia.
Amongst these were some
kikuyu runners, which survived
a considerable period of quaran-
tine, and were grown on a
property on the Warren River,
south of Manjimup (W.A.).
Shortly after we had the grass
established a neighbor, G. Betty,
obtained some plants from Syd-
ney. In 1924 I helped dig
thousands of roots for distri-
bution to the group settlements,
which were then just getting
under way.
Organic Wastes.
“Organo”: Agricultural pro-
duction in Holland would be at
a very low level without the use
of organic waste for soil-im-
provement. The use of city
manufacturing wastes and town
household garbage is under-
taken in that country on a higher
scientific plane and at a higher
mechanised level and volume
than anywhere else in the
world.
The material is made into a
compost like wet manure rather
than into a dried product.
Although higher transport
charges are involved, the high
cost of dehydration is avoided.
New Zealand has followed
the Dutch method. Since 1943
Auckland Municipal Council
has collected a wide range of
organic waste materials from
breweries, flourmills, condi-
ment-, fruit- and vegetable-pro-
cessing firms, coffee manufac-
turers, fish merchants, etc., to
make compost in huge pits on a
large scale.
A few N.S.W, suburban coun-
cils are interested in the pro-
ject, but, so far, the only prac-
tical outcome has been the mak-
ing of a small quantity of a
dried product by one of them.
Horse Troubles.
“Farmer Bill”: Digestive
troubles frequently cause skin
irritation in horses. First signs
are continual rubbing on fences
and posts as if to relieve itchi-
ness. Later, the hair comes off
in patches and- the skin beneath
has a watery appearance.
There’s no discharge. The head
or sections of the body may be
disfigured.
To clear up the digestive
trouble give the horse a bran-
mash for two nights in succes-
sion, then administer a drench
of loz. of Barbados aloes in two
pints of hot water. To treat the
sores mix Boz. of flowers of
sulphur, 4oz. of rectified oil of
tar, a pint of linseed-oil and a
pint of lime-water. Apply every
third day.
Thought on Grazing.
“Plane Creek”: Horses are
harder on grasses than cattle. In
North Queensland it has been
noted that, whereas guinea-,
elephant- and Para-grass will live
and ratoon under pretty heavy
stocking with cattle, horses will
soon make a mess of them.
Horses are very particular in
their tastes; they stick to the
grass and don’t touch the weeds
that invariably bob-up when the
grass is getting thin. Cattle will
have a go at the weeds, prevent-
ing them from getting out of
hand.
Nevertheless, there can be little
or no excuse for overgrazing
grassland with any kind of stock.
Overstocking is often blamed for
soil-erosion ; it is also a prime
booster of weed-growth.
De-tuskmg Boars.
“Springvale”: Attacks by
boars at shows forced agricul-
tural societies to make it a con-
dition of entry that all boars 15
months or more must have their
tusks cut one month prior to a
show. An attack is risked every
time one enters a pen or paddock
with a boar. When attacking
boars show amazing speed,
force and agility.
The tusks are long enough to
be dangerous when the animal is
a year old. Cutting them isn’t
difficult. A boar can be held
either by placing a rope-noose
well back over his upper jaw
and pulling him short up to a
firm post, or a suitable bail can
be made to hold the head on the
lines of a cow-bail. Bolt-cutters
will do the cutting. So will an
ordinary hacksaw, provided a
piece of wood is used as a gag.
Take every precaution during
and after the operation. Repeat
it every 12 months.
Silver-beet.
“Myrr”: In Victoria a
January sowing of silver beet is
always worth while. It will come
along quickly if sown direct in
the bed, three seeds to each site,
spaced 20in. apart and later
thinned out to one plant.
Apart from a base dressing of
2oz. of super, to the square yard,
best yields are obtained by
watering it every 10 days or so
with liquid manure, beginning
when the plants are Sin. or 6in.
high. This planting will provide
plenty of leaves from March
until September, when it will go
to seed.
Green Manure.
“Hortus”: Green manure is
good because of the rapid con-
version of the nitrogenous
material of the plants into
soluble nitrates. It is equally
good in sandy and heavy clay
soils. In the former, green
manure nitrifies more quickly
than bonedust or blood-and-
bone. In fact, sulphate ot
ammonia is practically the only
fertiliser that beats it m this
respect. In heavy clay soils it is
faster than sulphate of ammonia.
You can’t plough in any old
crop at any old time ; you must
have conditions favorable to the
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The normal Bruckner cycle is still in control, and good
rains are likely early in September. Ihe seasonal prospects
generally are good under the same cycle, which, however,
is not quite stable and may revert to the double Bruckner,
which is usually the main cycle. Should that happen the
rains will be considerably reduced.


VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870. After Hours, BJ 1957.
HEDGE CUTTERS
Rotary Electric (S 3, 110 or 330
volts). Efficient, Quick, Saver.
Distributed by
HEDGE CUTTERS
PTY. LTD.
116 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Tel. Nos.: MU 1807 & 3371.
f c
"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
ism
\
m
m
t*
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES /|Cl\
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
PHE.BX.BO
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of :—-
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING —INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under lib.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
*
%
*
*
(C)
%
.A
m
\ i
&
*
%
- ~J
YOUR GUESTS..
Certainly Aga cooks by itself, and also
keeps a meal hot almost indefinitely,
without spoiling delicious food. A
Nobel Prize Winner designed this
immaculate and faultless Cooker, which
is always alight and ready for use.
Thanks to its perfect insulation, it
keeps the kitchen clean and cool. The
Aga makes no fumes; in fact, it’s just
like owning a coke-burning angel!
May we send you particulars?
.WHILE
YOUR
AGA
COOKS
THE
DINNER
ẃ
k 0
sO a6 a\" st .
o^ 9WP
ef mW' a ' or
f THE 1
AGA
V COOKER J
LEVIN & CO. ltd;
(Established in N.Z. in 1841]
Sole Australian Agents
for the AGA COOKER and BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES ______ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA ______ Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
TASMANIA _ _A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
SB
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
%
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
ẅ
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
A
ww
EMPTYING
«
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.PTY.LTD.
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS • *
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British 'and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
-Lome Street, Auckland.
decomposition of the ploughed-
in green crop, such as sufficient
warmth and moisture. It’s no
good burying a green crop in
dry soil, as it will nitrify very
slightly. The same applies to
ploughing-under in late-autumn
or winter.
As to what the crop should be,
a great deal depends on the soil,
climate and district. A vigorous,
rapidly-growing crop is prefer-
able, the object being to add as
much humus as possible in one
operation. Leguminous crops,
such as peas, vetches, clover,
cowpeas, lupins, have an
advantage over others in that
they obtain not only humus-
forming material but also
nitrogen from the air.
Some farmers put animals on
to graze crops which are to be
eventually turned under. This
is a good practice from one point
of view, for, with the liquid and
solid animal manure, practically
all the nitrogen, phosphoric acid
and potash in the green crop is
returned to the soil. On the
other hand, however, the humus
addition will be diminished by
about half.
In these days of high-priced
fertilisers like sulphate of
ammonia, green-manuring is
cheap soil-improvement. Crops
draw only about 5 per cent, of
their dry matter out of the soil,
the remaining 95 per cent, being
obtained from the air. This large
balance is the combustible
portion the humus-forming
part. So, although a green crop
is ploughed into the soil on
which it grew, a huge amount of
valuable material is added to
that soil which was not taken
from it. In orcharding, green-
manuring is of special value, as a
crop may be sown between the
rows without damaging tree-
root growth.
Scaly-leg on Fowls.
“P.K.”; Scaly-leg causes
lower egg output owing to the
irritation caused. A single dip-
ping of the birds’ legs in any oil
or oily fluid is usually sufficient
to destroy the parasite, and to
prevent reinfestation spray the
perches and the floor of the
fowlhouse after cleaning them.
A solution of one of white
oil to 50 of water is cheap and
effective. Where a consider-
able number of hens need to be
treated the solution could be
placed in a shallow container,
so placed that the fowls would
have to walk through it to get
out of the fowlhouse in the
morning.
Hints for the Farm.
“Metax”: Spouting that is
held by spikes can be removed
undamaged by pulling off the
tin sleeve and sawing through
the spike as close as possible
to its head. By bending and
levering with a short bit of pipe
the spike can be loosened and
removed. The spikes are
wrecked, of course, but are
easily replaced.
“Ben C.”: Divide the width
of the cut of the machine in feet
into 660. That’s because there’s
66ft. in a chain and 10 chains
in an acre. So a 10ft. cut into
660 means the machine does an
acre for every 66 chains it
travels, and so with other widths.
“Sun-Mas”: If the binder
starts throwing out untied
sheaves look for end play in the
ejector-shaft. If it’s there, stop
it. If it isn’t, or if tightening
does no good, it’s likely the
small gears are worn. Turn the
thing over by hand and watch
the flat sides of the gears as they
appear. They need replacing if
there’s more than a sixteenth of
an inch of wear.
“Percentage”: Don’t kid your-
self your hail-insurance policy
protects you against anything
else but hail. Hail is usually
accompanied by wind and rain,
and, unless your policy specifi-
cally covers these agencies, a
smart assessor can cut your claim
down.
“Peter P.”: Twenty pounds of
whiting, a gill of salad-oil, a
half-gill of raw-linseed-oil, and
21b. of white-lead, thoroughly
kneaded together, gives you
putty. If it’s a little too stiff,
more linseed-oil will loosen it.
Keep it, covered with water, in
a tin.


’f
£.
*5
CHS
a»
m
OHS
W«»■„
p
Will it fly?
PARIS 1863
ANDELLE’S new design for a helicopter has
created a stir in aeronautical circles. Using
successful safe and steady flight. It will derive its lift from
horizontal screws, and its forward progress from a propeller
la Landelle, when interviewed today, was full of enthusiasm
for the project. “This design,” he said, “has everything
that an aeroplane should have, even parachutes to check
the descent should anything go wrong. Can you imagine
anything in aviation today more sure and efficient?
“Yes,” we said, “the BP Aviation Service. Moreover,
we all know from experience that it works, and works well.”
“How right you are,” said Landelle, “or at least, how right
you will be.”
entirely new principles, it promises
in the tail. Steam will be the source of power. Monsieur de
AVIATION
w
SERVICE
s
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED. All States.
An Associate of Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, Limited, London.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO KENNETH WILLIAM O’HARA late
of Hobart Tasmania. —TAKE NO TIC ■
that BERYL JEAN O’HARA jg»
Petition for Divorce No. 1664 of 1952 «
the ground of desertion without ]Urt <*u«
or excuse for three years and upward*
If you wish to defend you may enter M
„ r,nea ranee in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
7th November 1952 and obtain a c °P>’
Petition without charge
MESSRS THOMAS ROSE & DAWES,
SS» “so Mrtin Pl.c, Sydney.
— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 187 a.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 i Pitt Street, Sy
Invested Funds Exceed £500,00 . rates .
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident INSURED.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE IN&ljk.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street. Me s ° ur "^ bane<
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 C
Claims Promptly . an . d Towns!
Agents in all 1 nncipa fttTCHCOCK. Manager.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“The Labor Council has notified
State Departments, and State Minis-
ters that the Public Service Clerical
Officers’ Association is a bogus
organisation.”— “S. M. Herald.’’
They- regard the scribes as
Pharisees.
Ar • A’ *i*. .
“Salmon apologised, saying it was
tjie first time he had been inside a
court and he knew nothing of its
procedures.”
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
He was a fish out of water.
Ar
“For sale —Pure-bred Blue Cattle
Pups, from good workers. Male £2,
Female curtains and upholstery.
6/6 yd. Add postage.”
— S.A. country paper.
The bitch is a real yard dog.
•J’ A" Ar
“For sale —six laying hens, five
pullets, one rooster, all laying.”
—Launceston “Examiner.’'’
He has got something to crow
about!
“Commenting on the reported
statement of Edgar Tanner, secre-
tary of the Australian Olympic
Federation, that he opposed the
shortening of Mockridge’s Olympic
bond,' but was outvoted, one cyclist
said ‘lt was like his darned hide.
—Melb. “Argus.
Well, what would a Tanner be
without a hide?
Unique Distinction.
Consider Arthur Red tape,
0.8. E.,
Comptroller of Post Office
Clocks, retired;
A man of purpose and integrity
Whose long career deserves to
be admired.-
For half a century he served m
well—
Unlike so many, never a “pas-
senger”—
And finished near the top. But,
strange to tell,
He did not start as office
messenger!
P. O. M. C.
Wouldn’t It Rotate You!
Cool, calm, collected, I have
been since infancy ; clear-headed,
spry; firm, steady, constant and
serene, and master of my person.
I have scorned to lose my
balance; shied from acts that
might be labelled “dizzy.” In
brief, since youth I’ve always
tried to keep my mental powers
busy.
Strong waters, too, I frown
on, though sometimes I’ll quaff a
modest “middy.” But now, in
later life, I’ve chronic vertigo—
I’m often giddy!
PERCY.
Guesthouse-veranda
Chit-chat.
“Good morning, Mrs.
Williams.”
“Good morning, Mrs. Steven-
son. Good morning, Mrs. Finch-
ley. Lovely day, isn’t it? Is
this chair reserved for anyone?”
“No, do sit down. We’re just
trying to puzzle out this knitting
pattern. It’s rather compli-
cated.”
“Oh, you’re making it, are
you, Mrs. Finchley? What a
pretty pattern! It’s a broken-
rib stitch, isn’t it? I do like
that. And what a lovely shade.
I think beech-brown’s beautiful.
but it isn’t everyone who can
wear it.”
“My, you’ve taken on a con-
tract, Mrs. Williams. Crochet-
ing a tablecloth. It must be
rather tedious.”
“Oh, well, mothers mustmake
sacrifices, you know. It’s for
my daughter’s trousseau.”
“Fancy! When is she being
married?,Oh, good morning, Mr.
Bunker. Good morning, Miss
Windjacket. Off to,golf? Lovely
morning for it, isn’t it! Have
a good time. Yes, good-bye . . .
You bet he’ll have a good time.
The way she runs after him
would make • you sick. It’s so
obvious —and she’s so brazen
about it, too. I suppose he’s left
his wife at home to look after
the kids while he’s up here en-
joying himself, if the truth’s
known.
“I’d never let a husband of
mine come up on his own to a
place like this' to play golf.
There are too many designing
females around for my fancy.
In any case, I wouldn’t allow
him to play golf at all. It’s a
silly game—l can’t see anything
in it. Besides, most men simply
make it an excuse to get away
from their wives—and you never
know what some of them will
do when they’re out of your
sight. Oh, good morning, Mrs.
Harper. Good morning, Mrs.
Baker. You off to golf, too?
Yes, it should be beautiful play-
ing this morning. Yes, the others
have just gone. You’ll catch
them up. Good-bye.
“She’s a nice little thing, Mrs.
Harper, but isn’t it a pity she’s a
bit pigeon-toed? It spoils her
appearance. She’s the one who
i sits at the table behind you,
| Mrs.. Williams, in that bottle-
green twin-set. She’s lived in it
P^^rolr^lc^
“Do you cash pawntickets?”
ever since I’ve been here —it’s
a wonder she hasn’t got it on
now. That’s her husband, the
big man with the sandy hair
who came up for the weekend
in the big new cream car. He
seems very devoted, but she
appears to treat him rather casu-
ally—anyway, she never seems
to shed many tears when he goes
back on Sunday night. He’s up
every weekend. I don’t know,
but some women seem to think
nothing of leaving their husbands
to look after themselves while
they gallivant on holidays. I
don’t think it’s right!”
“My dear, they’re often
thought more of than the ones
who stop at home and make
slaves of themselves. I’ve seen
it repeatedly.”
“That Mrs. Baker’s very quiet,
isn’t she? I always think these
quiet ones are on the deep side,
myself. She’s been here a week
and hasn’t spoken half a dozen
words to us, has she, Cassie?”
“No, that’s true. But what
intrigues me is that hair of hers
I’d give anything to find out if
it’s natural. I had a good look
at it the other day when I was
right behind her going in to the
dining-room, and I still cant
make up my mind. It didn’t
seem to be straight near the
rdots, but, mind you, it could
be a very good cold-wave. I’d
love someone to ask her. Oh,
good morning, Miss Flescher.
Good morning > Miss Stringy-
bean. Going for a stroll ? Yes,
it’s a lovely morning for a walk
isn’t it! Yes, I hope you enjoy
it. See you later .. , My
heavens, did you see what she
put away for breakfast this
morning? It would have done
me for a week. I don’t know,
but I think a lot of people cotne
up to these places just for the
meals. It’s disgusting the way
they eat just for the sake of
eating. You’d think they d never
had a good meal before, some
of them.”
“It isn’t that she doesn’t show
something for it, either. IU
guarantee she’s got a 44 bust
already, and she’s not that old
—and look at the spread she’s
getting! She’ll be like the side
of a house in a few years if she
keeps that up. It’s a wonder
her people don’t tell her about
it.”
“That poor little Miss Scraggs
is just the opposite. You
couldn’t fatten her. She’s such
a Plain Jane and no nonsense,
too I’m afraid she’s cut out to
be an old maid. She wouldn’t
look quite so bad if she didn’t
wear her hair drawn tightly back
in a bun. Heavens, could you
see her in a poodle cut! But
hasn’t she a nice speaking-voice?
Oh, good morning, Miss Jack-
son. Good morning, Mr. Wilson.
A lovely day, isn’t it? Going
on to the court? You’ll find
Mr. and Mrs. Thompson there.
I think they’re waiting for some-
one to come along and make it
doubles. Yes, all right, we
might be over to have a look
at you later when you warm up.
Yes, all right. You know, she
should never wear shorts, with
her dumpy figure and bottle
legs. And she doesn’t mind
showing her beefy arms in a
sleeveless bodice, either. I’d
cover them up.”
“ He’s a nice chap, but a bit
of a mother’s boy, I think. His
fond mama, of course, thinks
every girl in the place is after
him. That’s his uncle who wears
the cloth cap and canary pull-
over, Bit of a roue, I think—
I wouldn’t trust him to walk up
to the town of a night with any
daughter of mine. I think be
likes himself, too. You can tell
by his walk.”
“There’s Mrs. Mitchell just
going. She’ll be off to the post-
office to get her letters away by
this morning’s train. I saw her
writing some last night. I think
she spends half her time with a
pen in her hand. Yoo-hoo, Mrs.
Mitchell! Would you mind
posting this for me ? I’ll bring
it out, dear."
Bo.
Trees —Again.
/ hope that I shall never know
it —
A tree as daffy as a poet.
A poet who thinks a tree would
wear
A nest of robins in its hair.
The while—a great Contor-
tionist-
Contriving that its mouth be
pVBSt
Against the earth; and, by the
way,
To raise its leafy arms to pray.
I hope-that I shall never see
Such a completely twisted tree.
Trees! It’s easy enough to grow
*O7l
But it’s I damned hard to write a
poem I
HOPE V.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
A Job for Labor
Joe, my offsider, arrives in the yard
dead on the whistle and goes at a slow
walk to the timber stacks. He rolls a
cigarette, puts his apron on with a
leisurely air and remarks that we’re on
this oak again and it’s bloody heavy.
After surveying the stacks and the sky for
possible clouds which might result in a
few minutes’ relief from toil, Joe docks
his cigarette and gives the weighty
opinion that we’d better strike a blow for
the boss. Meanwhile I have racked four
tiers of four-by-one.
Joe’s conversation is confined to a
monologue describing the dance on
Saturday night, the prospects of a sheila
on Wednesday night and the cruel price
of everything that makes life worth while
—tobacco, beer, picture admission and
other necessities. Joe places the blame
for all his miseries on a mysterious com-
pany of archfiends collectively called
“they.” “They” put the price of beer up,
“they” cut the workers’ liberties, “they”
impose heavy taxes, “they”-all have per-
sonal salaries of over £lO,OOO a year.
I tried to educate Joe. I pointed it
that with wages at £l2 a week for yard-
laborers, plus a payroll tax of 2| per
cent., plus workers’ - compensation
premiums and a few other odds-and er .A,
a laborer would have to be worth at least
£l4 a week to his employer to be n
employable, economic proposition, de-
duced to simplicity, it meant that ..he
timber which we handled between u >r
one day would have to be worth £5 12s.
more at 5 p.m. than it was at 8 a.ra. if
the present standard of wages and prices
was to be maintained. I got that .joint
over, and developed along the line that
the more work the worker did during
the day the cheaper would be the ulti-
mate cost to the consumer.
That point failed to contact, because
Joe’s belief in the mysterious ’ is so
great that he cannot understand that the
workers of Australia themselves are the
“they” on whose shoulders the blame
should be laid. His “they” are, ultimately,
the consumers, and Australia’s greatest
consumers are its workers and their
dependants.
It was 9 a.m. by this time, and Joe
made for the shed at the end of the yard.
He’s a regular young chap in some ways,
and his regularity takes 20 minutes of
the employer’s time a day. His Thirst at
11, two and four (there are “legal' breaks
at 10 and three) accounts for a further
30. That gives Joe an hour a day or the
house —five hours a week, or, in plain
words, a loss of £1 9s. 2d. a week to
industry. It has to be added to the
ultimate cost of the consumer goods.
The tragedy is that the only thing that
will bring Joe and a lot more like him
to any semblance of sanity is a spell on
the outer. I’d hate to see a return to the
swag-humping from police-station to
police-station, but I’m afraid it’s the only
language some youngsters will under-
stand unless the Labor party carries out
an intensive drive through its Press and
its organisers and persuades some of the
newer A.W.U. members that the first
requirement of a worker is th?d he shall
work.
Personal observation leads me to be-
lieve that industry is carrying about five
per cent, of “Joes” in its unskilled sec-
tion, and that thgt five per cent, is calling
tenders for a large dose of unemploy-
ment- in the very near future. If the
average unskilled worker upped his pro-
duction by two per cent, half our
economic difficulties would disappear. —
Silver Ash (Q.).
Betting in N.Z.
“Noo Zee,” in attempting to discredit
New Zealand’s Totalisator Agency Board
(B. 9/ 7 / ’52), does not present the whole
picture.
Australian readers should first realise
that since 1912 the only legal method of
betting in N.Z. has been the totalisator
on the racecourses; bookmakers were
outlawed. Naturally, over the years the
“He Wants to get away from it all.”
demand for some method of off-course
betting created s.-p, bookies, who grew to
an enormous organisation. Almost every
pub had its agent, likewise most
tobacconists and billiard - rooms.
Hundreds of small shops, factories and
wharves all had their s.-p. bookie or
agent.
‘'The publication of dividends, starting-
positions and a few other items of racing
information was prohibited. Mac-
Shortodds, however, had his organisation,
the Dominion Sportsman’s Association,
which collated race information and tele-
graphed or telephoned it to all centres.
In any town of, say, 2000 and up, and in
some smaller, you could get the dividend
on a race anywhere in N.Z. within half
an hour of the finish.
In evidence to the gaming commission,
before the referendum, the secretary of
the association stated that the members
of his organisation put through in bets
as large a turnover as the totahsator. He
wanted bookies made legal.
The referendum gave a majority of
about 70 per cent, in favor of setting-up
some form of off-course betting, and,
although the bookie was not directly men-
tioned on the voting-paper, it was clear
that this was a vote to wipe out Mac-
Shortodds.
The police are now more active in
catching up with some bookies and a lot
of agents, and magistrates are giving jail
sentences up to three months instead of
fines up to £3OO, which were only
regarded as licences. The s.-p. bookie
will never be completely eliminated, but
the days of the big fellows are numbered.
It is ridiculous to say that the T.A.B.
system is making betting too easy. Under
the old system anyone wanting a bet only
asked their tobacconist or corner dairy.
Further, the bookie would allow credit
betting, and that got more small punters
in the cart, and finally up for embezzle-
ment, than the T.A.B. is ever likely to do.
The T.A.B. will only accept a bet if cash
is put up.
The T.A.B. does not solicit custom ; it
only provides the facilities for betting.
The Government gets its full tax on bet-
ting where formerly it only got an
estimated income tax from some of the
bookies. And, so far, no one has accused
the tote of squaring a race. Racing should
be cleaned and the punter get a better
deal under the T.A.B. — Haere Huku
(N.Z.). _____
Margarine?
Victoria’s Half-Premier McDonald is
in trouble with the housewives over
margarine. The ladies, who know some-
thing of the family budget, are finding
that butter is too expensive but that
margarine is hard to get.
Production of margarine in Victoria
is limited to 1196 tons annually, and as
butter goes up the demand has risen
greatly. It’s a nice state of affairs when a
minority Government and party, contain-
ing not one representative of the metro-
politan and urban masses* can flatly refuse
to increase manufacturers’ quotas of
margarine because they fear it would
lead to trouble with the dairymen.
That the export of more butter, because
of local consumption falling, would
benefit the Australian economy as a whole
does not seem to occur to these Spring-
street farmers. Manufacturers are able
and willing to make more margarine and
people who simply cannot afford butter
are demanding it, but authority says “You
buy butter or else.” — Ceg (Vic.).
White Australia
The conclusion (B. 11/6/’52) that
criticism of the White-Australia policy
by Asiatics is neither spontaneous nor
universal is correct. My opinion is based
on 40 years’ experience of Australia’s
“near north.”
Mr. Casey is one of the few statesmen
of world class produced by Australia in
the last quarter of a century, and he has
every right to speak with some authority
on this subject as far as Indian opinion
is concerned. But with countries nearer
home, such as Indonesia, Malaya and
Thailand (Siam), he is “off the beam”
when he declares that the term is “offen-
sive to Asiatics.”
Why should they object? They make
no apologies for their slogans, such as
“India for the Indians,” and from Egypt
to China they are unanimous in, if not
keeping the whites out entirely, limiting
them to a yearly quota.
In his visits to these countries Mr.
Casey has travelled as a V.1.P., and has
been received as such in them all. He
has not, for instance, had the experience
of all ordinary passengers by air who
break their journey at Jakarta (Java)—
of being “herded” into the dining-room
at the air-port and being kept there, prac-
tically prisoners, for the duration of their
stay, two hours in my case, with all exits
from the building guarded by policemen.
Very different from the days of the Dutch
occupation, when you were made wel-
come at all the hotels, clubs and business
houses.
In Thailand one is most courteously
received by all Government officials, but
entry into the country as residents is on
the quota system (200 persons a year
from Australia), and immigration regu-
lations are most rigidly enforced.
Many prominent Thai officials and
private citizens visit Australia every year,
and a number of Thai students are study-
ing there. I have not heard one single
complaint against the policy of White
Australia, the use of the term or of their
treatment while in Australia.
There may be criticism in “high
places,” as Mr. Casey states, but, in my
experience, it is certainly not common in
the ordinary walks of life. In fact, one
seldom, if ever, hears the question dis-
cussed— Orang Puteh (Siam).
Unity
Unification, as in the British system,
or even the Canadian, as suggested by
D. Empson (B. 30/7/’52), would have
some drawbacks compared with the
present Australian Federal system.
The threatened shuttlecock treatment
of the British steel industry could prob-
ably never occur in Australia ; certainly
not if Prime Minister Menzies fulfilled
his election promise of a referendum for
permission to amend the Constitution to
make it impossible for such Socialist
legislation to be passed without a referen-
dum.
It was the Constitution, not December,
1949, which killed bank nationalisation,
while, so far as I can understand, the
British Parliament could even repeal the
Habeas Corpus Act.
I do not contend that there should be
no alteration to the present constitutional
position, but that it is safer for residual
powers to be vested in the hands of many
almost certainly differing authorities than
in one all-powerful central Government.
—I.H.L. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 189
Across.
I—Whether you like it or not, this
is a comment on a boy who never
scores. (5, 5).
s—Riparian institution of finance. (4)
9 North employee of a cake-maker
is more palatable. (5)
10 — Licentious measure is untram-
melled. (4, 5) 1
12—Broadcast Einstein? What a
fool! (12)
14—Remains in foundation garments.
(5)
16—Description of the foolish Vicar
of Bray? (3)
18— Town, if burnt, is used as a pig-
ment scene of Italy’s public-
square races in honor of the
Virgin- (5)
19— Half-pint infant. (3)
20— Ha-ha-ha-ha. (3)
21 — Come in like a carpenter without
fish. (5)
23 — I briefly mention Goossens’s
complete failure with the bat.
24 Stone the drama critic in an
entrance. (5)
26 —Tennis for two picks when one
has a row. (6, 6)
30 —Sungod followed by Mildred and
Millicent where Marlborough
succeeded. (9)
31— but stunted bush. (5)
32 — Vehicle backing in this en-
closure. (4)
33 — Furious examination success that
Idriess swallowed. (10)
Down.
1 — College weapon has a victory
over Wilmot or Morris, with
hoisting gear on an ethereal salt.
(10)
2 Fifty you throw over a dramatic
Anna. (7)
3 Regalia upset running through
Melbourne. (5)
4 You had a meal while swimming
in dripping to make one foolish.
(9) . ,
6 Study it among vowels and
poison. (7)
7 Hidden like a canal. (4)
8 — Harlowe woman spends a cen-
tury over a Greek province with
class air unapparent. (8)
11 —Apostrophe to ancient capital
belongs to us. (3)
13—Anxieties over fur, but can be
kissed. (10)
15 —Holy tatter with broken leg is to
proceed like Brown’s cows. (8)
17 —They exhibit detective work
during the Grand Parade? (9)
22 —A beaut tidier-up of the edges.
(7)
25—Andcnt land like a modem one.
(7)
27 Some blooming end of a con-
tinent. (5)
28 — Noose girl is no more successful
than Goossens in 23 across. (5)
29 — Vehicle says yes to a doctor. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 188.


BY POPULAR CHOICE
THE AWARD GOES TO
STAMINA
PRIZE WINNER IN THE
WORLD OF MEN'S WE AR
IDEAL FOR EVERY WEAR
EVERYWHERE
1
<1
m
$
m
m
mm
Mm*
m
An*
/
fj
/
M % /
■Mi.
■
:
w
c
4S
a
J
I W«
n
:
,
m
m
■
m
X
J
■
7
m
'
MMaaaaaatiiaaitiiiitaMlMMMMß
ASK
FOR
Siou nil x
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM A SPECIAL PURE WOOL CRUSADER CLOTH
