

\
Send o gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks m their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt eon arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E. G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3797
Wednesday, November 19, 1952
Price 9<L
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney. N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
DALRAY
Black horse by Balloch-Broiveine. Four years
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP, 1952
Owner: Trainer: Jockey:
MR. C. NEVILLE C. C. McCARTHY W. WILLIAMSON
Weight: 9st. 81b. Time: 3min. 23|sec.


A MOST WELCOME AND SENSIBLE GIFT
A SUBSCRIPTION TO DYMOCK'S LIBRARY
f° r a Pleasant and Lasting Gift This Christmas. Take out a Library
Subscription at our Lending Library for 6 or 12 months. The latest books
are available to all subscribers, and membership entitles you to change your
books as often as you wish.
A Card of Membership with Greeting will be sent to the recipient on the
appropriate date. Details of terms and catalogue will be sent on application.
Dymock's library - Sydney's largest and Most Up-to-date
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE; 8L3611.
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
Catherine Gaskin
A sincere and moving story of the destructive power of love. Misa
Gaskin at the age of 23, and in this her fifth novel, shows that she
now has a mature and warm understanding of problems of the heart.
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
“Swnj Wrltmg
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
“ CUT HERE AND MAIL -
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age
DENNIS'S DAILY DOZEN
Like most collected light verse or
topical verse. Random Verse (Hallcraft),
selected by Margaret Herron from C. J.
Dennis’s daily doings on the Melbourne
“Herald,” is unlikely to hold many
readers for much time.
He can be very, very good:
Taffy was a Bolshie, Taffy was a Red,
Taffy came to my house and stoic my
feather bed.
To all his Bolshie comrades he gave a
single feather,
Now everybody’s satisfied and shivering
together.
He can even find unsuspected rhymes
for “Australia”:
But in this topsy-turvy land
Where often —inter alia —
Strange forms of bird, in ways absurd,
Are grafted to mammalia,
And beasts have bills to fit the goose,
Our crazy Coat-of-Arms breaks loose
To roam at night and play the deuce
’Mid farmers in Australia.
In a great deal that is sloppy, or that
clanks on the rheumatic joints of an
unwilling typewriter, there are such things
as “The Courteous Cop,” written on the
news that Sydney was forming a “Cour-
tesy Squad”;
Good morning, sir, good morning.
Isn’t it a delightful day? .
And—er—by the way,
Pardon my accosting you thus without
warning
• On a day so utterly superb ;
But would you be so kind—
Would you mind
Pulling over to the kerb?
And he is usually happy when he drops
into the dialect of which he is the Aus-
tralian master, as when two boxers in
the ring are discussing another pugilist’s
contention on the radio that the fighter’s
business was not to kill his opponent
but to “please the crowd and get the
dollars”:
“Business ethics,” says McGinty,
Jabbin’ vicious with intent,
An’ a left that’s hard an’ flinty,
“Don’t permit of sentiment.”
“True. How true,” sez I, an’ cracks ’im
With a jolt that jarred ’im good. „
“Sich ’as alius been my maxim.”
“Right,” sez ’e. “That’s understood.”
The topical versifier likes to feel, with
John Masefield, that “it would be a great
pity if such a terrific amount of good
work should be forgotten” ; but the truth
is that time fades such things, so brilliant
and allusive on the day, in a fortnight.
In a year, the atmosphere that gave them
life leaves them. Our literature' is full
of tags and couplets and quatrains that
were once topical verse ; but beside the
thousands of volumes of such verse that
stare hopelessly from the tables of second-
hand booksellers, or that have been
dragged in tumbrils to (he pulp-works,
these would represent one book of very
few pages.
The Red Page
King George the Fifth
Harold Nicolson’s King George the
Fifth (Constable) is a prodigy among
Royal biographies in that it is neither
banal nor obsequious. It even has
touches of humor. But above all it is
written in sound English by a man who
knows how to say what he wants to say
and who is a thoroughly capable writer
of narrative.
Lastly it is valuable to the historian,
for the bulk of it is given to serious
delineation of the King’s behind-the-
scenes part in the great events of the 36
years following the death of his grand-
mother, Queen Victoria, beginning with
his voyage to Australia to open the first
Commonwealth Parliament and ending
with the year of Jubilee in which the
Government of India Act was passed and
the Hoare-Laval settlement of the
Abyssinian War dealt a death-blow to
the tottering and inept League of Nations,
from which Germany already had re-,
tired. The repercussions from these
matters saddened the King’s last days.
King George emerges as a man whose
natural bent and love was the Navy, but
who was torn from it—just as he appeared
likely to become eminent in it —through
the death of his brother the Duke of
Clarence. Close adherence to his duties
and a simple and direct approach to all
his problems, plus a stubborn ingredient
in his character derived from Queen
Victoria, gradually fashioned him intb
an ideal monarch, thoroughly knowledge-
able in his job, sufficiently different from
almost every known type of politician to
keep himself privately aloof from every-
body with whom he had Constitutional
dealings. He never lost his straightfor-
ward Naval vocabulary or the traditional
live-and-let-live friendliness which in
Naval life, subject to the constant changes
natural to men who move from ship to
ship, is apt to replace friendship. He
was ready to speak his mind or to advise
and not afraid to resist measures of which
he disapproved, though always with a
shrewd tact. When his advice was not
accepted he had a gift for compromise
which served him even in incidents like
that with Mr. Scullin over the Governor-
Generalship of Sir Isaac Isaacs, the full
story of which, from the Buckingham
Palace side, is told in this book at some
length.
till that dispute took place the custom
in choosing an Australian Governor-
General had been for the British Prime
Minister to submit to the King a list of
individuals from which he thought a
Governor-General might be chosen. This
list was prepared after informal consul-
tation had taken place with the Aus-
tralian P.M. The King then made a
personal choice. This time Mr. Scullin
forestalled the usual procedure by an-
nouncing abruptly that he had decided to
recommend that Sir Isaac Isaacs should
be appointed. The King refused to
approve, claiming the initiative and point-
ing out that the Crown Law officers re-
viewing the proceedings of the 1926
Imperial Conference supported his view.
Nothing would move Mr. Scullin. It
was pointed out to him by Lord Stam-
fordham that the King did not object to
an Australian, but he did object to the
appointment of a local man who must
have party predilections.
However, the Imperial Conference
which met while the dispute was going on
decided that the King should act “on the
advice of his Majesty’s Ministers in the
Dominion concerned,” but that the advice
should be given only “after informal con-
sultation with his Majesty”—a principle
which the Chifley Government later threw
roughly overboard in the case of Mr.
McKell.
The King saw Mr. Scullin personally
and “pointed out to him that there was
no record of the King’s wishes in such
cases being ignored that Sir Isaac
Isaacs, who would be more than ever
H.M.’s representative, was personally un-
known to him; that he was 75 years of
age and that no Australian could be
selected without having some party bias.
.... Mr. Scullin referred to Ireland,” but
the King apparently wondered whether
“Australians with their traditional loyalty
to the Throne wished to be compared to
Ireland.” Eventually Scullin won.
According to the King’s private secretary:
The King recognises that he was well
within his rights to refuse Mr. Scullin’s
demand with (what he is assured would
be the case) the warm support of the
people of Australia. But... .[he]... .is
well aware how easy it is to light and fan
the flame of agitation by an ill-disposed
minority-—especially when, as in this case,
constituted of trades-unionists, Communists
and Irish, not of the highest class. And,
as the King himself told Mr. Scullin [though
he did not specify to him “the probable
composition of the minority”], he would
not give him the opportunity of executing
any such manoeuvre.
Within a few weeks Sir Isaac Isaacs
was installed and “was sending the King
private letters of immense length describ-
ing his. own benevolent activities, and the
party dissensions which rendered Federal
politics of such interest to an outside
observer.” On his retirement at 80 the
choice was left to the King to appoint
his successor, and Lord Gowrie, “wise and
popular,” was the chosen.
King George V was just as outspoken
with outsiders when he felt he needed to
be. As early as April 24, 1934, he tackled
the German Ambassador and told him
plainly that Germany was the “peril of
the world” and that, “if she went on at
the present rate, there was bound to be
war within ten years.” He asked bluntly
“what Germany was arming for. No one
wanted to attack her, but she was forcing
all the other countries to be prepared for
an attack on her part.” In view of
Hitler’s own apparent anxiety that year
that “the two Germanic nations” —the
Reich and Britain—should “co-operate
to secure peace on land and sea” it seems
a pity that he did not meet King George
V, who might have made more impres-
sion on him by his blunt, Royal Naval
methods than all the diplomats in
Europe.
EL V.
Atomic Traitors
Though it doesn’t go beyond good
journalism and routine Freudian psy-
chology, The Traitors (Hamish Hamilton),
by the Australian writer Alan Moore-
head, is an excellent piece of reading
whether for information on the Com-
munist conspiracy or simply for entertain-
ment as a true and up-to-the-minute
spy-story. It deals with the three scientists
employed by Great Britain who gave in-
formation to Russia about the atomic
bomb: Nunn May, Fuchs and Ponte-
corvo.
Nunn May committed his treachery in
Canada during the war. Besides giving
information on atomic research to the
Russians he stole and handed over to
them samples of uranium isotopes from
the laboratories in Montreal; for which
he was sentenced to ten years’ imprison-
ment and is due to be released from
Wakefield Prison, in Yorkshire, at the
end of this year or early in 1953.
Fuchs, who first came to England as a
refugee from Hitler’s Germany, operated
as a spy in both America and England,
and gave the Russians more advanced
and more detailed information than Nunn
May: “I suppose,” he calmly announced
when he was making his confession, “that
the worst thing I did was ,to tell the
Russians how to make the atomic bomb.”
He received the maximum sentence of
14 years.
Pontecorvo, Italian by birth and a
refugee from Fascism, disappeared while
supposed to be on holiday in Italy from
his post at the British research-centre at
Harwell and, having been traced as far as
Helsinki, is presumed to have gone to
Russia, from where there has been no
{“Red Page’ continued on page 35)
Aboriginal Outlaw
In his thirtieth book Outlaws of the
Leopolds (Angus and Robertson), lon
Idriess again demonstrates his ability to
put flesh on the skeleton and bring it to
life, this time with the aboriginal named
Sandamara, or Pigeon, the police-tracker
who turned aboriginal patriot and rebel
in the Kimberleys in the 1890’s.
The story is rich with stratagem and
intrigue which might not be expected in
such wide and primitive places. It begins
with the diplomatic coup of the bad
aboriginal Ellemara, in which he per-
suaded the trackers Pigeon and Captain,
who had captured him and were bringing
him in, to kill Mounted Constable
Richardson, free the string of chained
aborigines he was bringing in for trial,
and escape to prey on white settlers and
drive them out of the Kimberleys.
The plot succeeding, Ellemara was
superseded in the leadership of the
marauders by Pigeon, who, using his
police-training, planned an attack on a
party moving up with stores and cattle
to form a new station towards the heads
of the Fitzroy. The ambush was well
made m Wingina Gbrge ; two of the three
white-men were killed ; the blacks gained
substantial supplies of arms, ammunition
and food. The victory was celebrated
with an orgy to which, evidently not
having to depart from bare facts, Idriess
does ample justice.
Not long after this, police patrols
caught up with them in the gorge. The
blacks retired to a cave, where they kept
the police at bay with their rifles while
bullets ricocheted from the walls.
Pigeon was shot, Very badly, through the
shoulder-blade and probably also through
the left shoulder in front, Ellemara was
frightfully wounded in the back with a
“wire-cartridge”—pellets held in a pack-
age in flight so that they will scatter over
a small circle, after travelling most of
the way, or on impact.
Here again Pigeon had been ingenious.
A tribesman had been sent out in front
of the cave among gins told to lie like
dead or wounded. He was to shout
“Pigeon, him dead!” upon which the
police were expected to charge—on
Pigeon’s waiting rifles. Indeed, when he
did shout, the police charged, but he
had left it too long ; and, when the police
got into the cave, there was only the
copious blood where Pigeon had been
leaning, and the marks of his hands in
blood where he had crawled away into
labyrinths behind, through which the
whole fighting-party had escaped.
Ellemara with his little stolen lubra
recuperated, narrowly missed being run
down by police, rejoined the outlaw
blacks, and staged a brief scene of homi-
cidal frenzy. But Pigeon hid away with
his wounds and his mother, Jinny, in
The Cave of the Bats,” which had exits
and entrances on both sides of a
mountain. Police and blacks thought
him dead.
I hen two trackers saw his tracks again.
At the head of his gang he was prepar-
ing to attack a supply-wagon when Elle-
mara’s gin rushed up panting to say that
the police were after them, the trackers
leaning over their cantering horses to
follow the trail. The blacks rushed into
a cave from which there was no other
outlet. The police drew up in front of
the cave, and prepared to shoot or starve
them out. But here again they were up
against an extraordinary man:' by night
the blacks tore into the soft limestone at
one end of the cave with the heads of
their spears, and through the hole they
made dropped out into the river.
Pigeon disappeared into his caves, but
from time to time his tracks would be
seen in fact, he left them deliberately,
carefully pressed in ashes, near the scenes
of his depredations. He last led his
gang in a pitched battle at the Collins
station; and from then on he was on
the run from encircling patrols aided by
Marawon, an aboriginal whose wife he
had stolen.
When he reached the “Cave of the
Bats” the police were guarding it. He
got in, slipped out for food, and was
trying to get back when the police cut
him off from the tunnel entrance. He
ran up the side of the mountain and
dropped, wounded, into a small cave.
In the morning the trackers followed a
trail of blood from an unsuspected exit ■
and came up with him, limping and
mortally wounded. He fired his last
three cartridges, and so died.
In his foreword lon Idriess says that
he has been over the country himself, and
got a great deal of his information from
aborigines to whom Pigeon, very
properly, ranks higher than Ned Kelly;
he also acknowledges help from police
documents. All this he has dramatised
into a book of unflagging interest 'V
one is going to embarras lon Idi -
with references to his stylistic gra-. -
nevertheless, when Pigeon has been hid
to rest with his ancestors
of fhfe Bats,” one is satisfie v,
honor has been done to on he most
interesting figures in Australian history.


Sags?
I
m .. i
: :;>
% i -
mm
"^*l
U-:
■ ~ '
; r;.
■
■■■
: : ■
u
wm
i m
:; : i
m
<-■■■■■:
■ ' ' ■ ■'
Hi
m
STiMMIB
y ■/ • j
'
sBSHi HI s
H4t fi&ift..AH
m
■Bliffi
i
* - f—
mmmm
' *******
■■■■■
SHi
Completely versatile! Our nest of
three tables is rare value!
The charm, the flair of the Elizabethan style is
enhanced by finely grained, glossy wood.
Perfectly crafted, with turned legs and rope
edges, in two tone Oak, Walnut or Mahogany
colour. Overall size of largest table—
top 19in. x 13in., height 22in. £lO/12/3.
sd
Left: China cabinet in walnut colour. The mirror
back and sturdy plate glass shelves compliment a
china display. 45in. wide, 45in. High, 1 3in. deep.
£2B/19/-.
:»m
Three chairs built on clean?
modern lines
Above: Bentwood Swivel chair. Non-
tilt, these are adjustable by simply
turning chair round. With cane seat,
in dark colours, £lO/1 7/-. With wood ply
seat in medium colour, £9/3/9.
Centre. The Folding Bentwood chair in
sturdy timber. Easy to store, it folds up
neatly. Blonde colour, £3/9/9. Walnut,
£3/5/-.
Below: Typist Swivel chair, with adjustable
back. Covered in brown fab, only £4/1 0/-.
Equip your office, modernise your home
mported Bentwood Chairs
from 05r
-Ill-
y
r r-
Bentwoods set the trend to beauty and utility 1
Craftsmen in Poland designed these chairs for
sturdiness plus good looks. In light or walnut
colour, these Bentwoods are important additions to
any room, any home.
Below: English strong steel cupboard, well enamelled and
practically fireproof. Size 72in. x 36in., with 3 shelves.
£4O/13/6.
■
as
W
S 5
CERAMIC ART EXHIBITION
From now on until 22nd November in our Furniture Depart-
ment on Third Floor. Pottery making demonstrations, too!
fs
Horderns
SSfii.
FURNITURE DEPARTMENT—THIRD FLOOR. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. PHONE M 2401.


A Woolclasser Classes
Woolclassers
By BILL HOWARD
VOU came out of your woolbroker’s
office armed with the wool-
manager’s casual instructions:
“Catch the Bourke mail tonight,
Get off at Cockadotta Siding tomorrow.
They’ll meet you there. They’re nice
people . . . Make big lots and skirt lightly.
• • • Good luck.”
Of course no one meets you next day,
and you drift over to the pub, where
there’s the inevitable message from the
pre-shearing harassed owner or manager
who has just phoned the publican; “If
you see a bloke looking like a wool-
classer, Jim, leg-rope him and tell him
111 be in in half an hour.”
Meanwhile the wool-manager has
telegraphed Cockadotta Downs; “Classer
Weakstaple on tonight’s mail,
please meet, and over the party-line it
goes until it reaches Mrs. Grazier, who,
as she gets clean sheets out of the linen-
cupboard, mutters to herself: “Dear me,
what a nuisance! A strange man in the
house . . . no labor, either. I do hope
he’s not untidy and a menace like the
man las * year.”
But if you’re a clever classer and want
to get on you’re not a nuisance on the
homestead. You make your own bed
in the morning ; you leave slippers on
the veranda to change into so you won’t
trail shearing-shed muck through the
house ; you efface yourself early to your
own room, and at meal-times you prattle
to Mrs. Grazier about all the new shows
in Sydney and the new styles till the
silent, sheep-obsessed owner throws you
a sardonic look from his side of the table,
no doubt thinking;
“Blime, what’s this I’ve hired —a wool-
classer or a blasted entertainer?”
So you pull your social head in and
talk to the boss about the tragic shortage
of shearers in the industry.
But this little sycophancy pays divi-
dends next year when shearing arrange-
ments are being discussed. Mrs. Grazier
will pipe up: “Do let’s have Mr. Weak-
staple back. Such a nice man in the
house!”
But never take the tea-towel! One
must never sink that low! Once you
volunteer you’re sunk. It’s then on every
night, and after that mad bustle of
shearing-shed work you just want to put
your feet up and listen to the wireless.
There’s a saying among woolclassers
that there are more woolclassers than
sheep in Australia, and that classers are
needed to class the classers!
Blokes who fail umpteen times in first-
year law or medicine: “We’ll make him
a woolclasser and pack him off to the
scrub,” say the irate parents. The types
who find too many beery oases in
Castlereagh-street; “We’ll make him a
woolclasser and pack him off to the back
country (where there are only beery
mirages),” say the irate parents. Restless
characters who can’t stick a steady job;
“We’ll make him a woolclasser, etc.,” say
the same very irate parents.
Perhaps these little generalisations
about classers are a little harsh. These
days there’s an influx of C.R.T.S. men
and keen youngsters.
Anyway, when you first go to the bush
you make a lot of gaffs quite unconnected
with wool.
What to wear that first night for dinner?
I’ve learnt never to be impressed by the
apparent prosperity or pretentiousness of
the homestead. At a luxurious home-
stead the owner may come to dinner
straight from the drafting-yards with a
pair of crutching-shears dangling from
his belt. But you, impressed by such a
beaut place, have got on the old port-
crushed blue suit, and, collared-and-tied
like a citizen of Martin-place, you feel
awful!
Or you may arrive at a decrepit old
homestead, so you think you’ll adjust
yourself, and you emerge for dinner that
night all sporty—even a little proletarian-
like —and are horrified to find them all
gathered sipping sherry and “tizzied up”
with great sartorial elegance!
'Then there is grog. After a day of
the frantic tempo of shearing-shed work
it is fine to slug yourself with a Big Rum.
But what will you do? Bring out the
bottle and shout for the owner, or drink
alone in your room and slink out at
tucker-time feeling like Ray Milland in
“Lost Weekend”? There is something
anti-social about rum, and you may earn
the condemnation: “The classer drinks,
you know.”
But it’s very anguishing if you bring
your bottle and see your fortnight’s
portmanteau-carried' ration consumed in
one careless night by the manager and his
jackeroos.
In many cases the woolclasser is not
“camped” at the homestead, but is down
in the huts with the shearers. Many
“woollies” prefer this set-up. Life is less
complex there sartorially and socially,
and no shearer resents the anti-social
odor of rum coming across the tea-table
at him . . . And there are no tea-towels.
To be a good woolclasser one has to
know human- as well as wool-qualities,
and be a mixture of diplomat, stooge and
yes-man. From the owner down to the
boy on the board, no one loves you!
The shearing-contractor is only con-
cerned about the sheep whizzing down
the chute, and to please him you have to
perform miracles at clean-ups and cut-
outs. He will stand beside you watching
for the signal to start shearing again. He
would like the abolition of all classers!
The shearer derisively calls the classer
a confidence-man. Long, short or shabby
. . . close your eyes and throw it over
the shoulder! He regards you, too, as a
perpetual threat to big tallies if you
stop shearing because of bad light or wet
wool.
The “babbler” also is not too happy
with the classer, because he may have to
set-up and maintain an extra dining-room
where you and the boss of the board may
eat with undemocratic aloneness.
The “rousies” usually are only con-
cerned with getting through the days with
a minimum of effort and efficiency, and
will call you a “fussy” blankard to them-
selves if you try to get a good job done.
You are sometimes in conflict with the
woolpresser when you insist upon him
sweeping his floor after pressing each
bale. Woolpressers are usually particu-
larly burly, powerful men, and a particu-
larly burly one may come across the meal-
room at you shouting “I’ve had more
chips from you in one day than I’ve had
in 20 years! I’ve had you! I’m gonna
knock your block off!”
“This is it,” you say to yourself as
you slip your dentures into your dust-
coat pocket. Aloud, you lisp, just as he
is about to make his swing: “If you
king me I’ll have the constab the
cops out here from town in two hours.”
In fiction they would knuckle-up out-
side on the claypan, with the woolclasser
emerging victorious over the gigantic
presser. Bqt this is a true story!
The squatter may have his own ideas
on classing, and may stand beside your
table all day watching you, peering in
the wool-bins and making suggestions,
until in exasperation you cry: “Get to
hell out of this wool-room, you mug,
with your outdated ideas! Go on, shoot
through, before I down you! Stop inter-
fering ... If you hired a good plumber
to do your plumbing you wouldn’t inter-
fere! Well, you’ve hired a good classer!”
It’s a pity you said all that under your
breath, and that all that fury and
vehemence are translated into a demure
“Sure, that’s a great idea, Mr. Squatter
... Yes, we’ll certainly do it that way!”
Or another owner may come up and
say thirty-five times a day: “How’s it
coming off, Mr. Weakstaple? They’re not
bad sheep, are they?”
The wool may be as lousy as a miser
and as doggy as Harold Park on Wednes-
day nights and the sheep as small and as
sickly as rabbits in the last stages of
myxomatosis; and thirty-five times a day
you will answer, “Yes, they’re certainly
a fine lot of sheep, Mr. Cocky, and it’s
the best wool I’ve handled this year —
beautiful stuff! ”
Owners you have met! A family of
three, all bridge fanatics, isolated away
outback, panting for a game. You arrive
and find yourself cutting for partners
before unrolling your swag. And as you
sit up yawningly night after night you
"The Testing of Babwi"
by W. E. Harney
The on-the-spot authority on the
Australian aborigine tells the story
of a family of aborigines wrecked
from their canoe on an uninhabited
island, and how, like the Swiss
Family Robinson, but completely
without tools or weapons, they fed
and sheltered and built themselves
a canoe to return to the mainland.
One of next week’s “Bulletin
story batch.
can solace yourself that, anyway, you’ll
get the shed back next year.
“Batching” alone with another owner,
and you play an intense, bitter duel of
stud-poker every night. At the cut-out,
after three weeks’ classing, you have to
write him out a cheque. He gets his class-
ing done every year for nothing!
You may volunteer to be a baby-sitter,
telling the young couple: “Why don’t
you go to town tonight and see the
movies? I’ll sit up and mind the little
dears. It’s a good chance for you while
I’m here.”
An hour later the three little brats all
wake up yelling, and you can’t stop ’em,
and you panic, thinking they may have
ptomaine or something. So you phone
the picture-show in town and implore the
manager to put a slide on the screen
telling the parents to return straight away
to Comeback Downs.
They break the record back, leaving
every gate open, and burst into the house
to find the four of you passed out —the
kids wan and pinched from exhaustion
and you from pinched Scotch.
Yeah, it’s certainly a perilous game,
this woolclassing.
Model Speech for a Wedding Breakfast
I ADIES and gentlemen:
It affords me the very
I greatest pleasure to propose
the toast of the bride and
bridegroom, and in doing so I am
deeply conscious of the high honor
that has been conferred on me .. ,
Ah! I thought so! Those two
benumbing cliches which I just de-
liberately unleashed have had
exactly the reaction I anticipated.
The eyes raised to the ceiling des-
pairingly ; the collective sighs, simi-
lar in hopelessness to those heaved
by the harassed father when the kid
comes in to get some help with his
homework just after Dad has settled
down comfortably with the evening
paper ; the looks of uttermost suffer-
ing on the faces of those around me
who from bitter past experience at
functions such as this know that
such a preamble is invariably fol-
lowed by about quarter of an hour
of platitudinous drivel, all in
nauseating praise of the couple we
are gathered here to see attempting
to shoot the dumpers of matri-
mony. ..
“Well, rest easy, ladies and
gentlemen ; you will have no need
to attempt the difficult feat of yawn-
ing with your traps shut.
“Let me invert the usual order of
chivalry and speak of the bridegroom
first. His position, poor devil, is
best epitomised in those words which
may be sung to the first couple of
measures of the wedding march we
heard such a little while ago:
‘Here comes the bride.
With the boob by her side’...
“1 invite you all to observe his
triumphant expression. It is a look
which accurately reflects the triumph
of the snapper as the hook is being
removed from its mouth.
“Let us, ladies and gentlemen,
broadly consider the ’groom’s posi-
tion. In falling for the old fairy-
story about two being able to live
as cheaply as one he has demon-
strated that in him the purveyor of
gold-bricks would find a ready and
willing purchaser, and that in all
probability he still hangs up a stock-
ing at the foot of his bed on Christ-
mas Eve.
“He doesn’t know it, being yet a
marital babe-in-the-wood, but he will
be compelled to develop entirely
new sets of muscles, for he will find
that those he once used for tennis,
poker and up-ending glasses are en-
tirely useless for mattock work,
pushing mowers and writing cheques.
“You are no doubt all waiting for
me to predict that, knowing the
’groom’s upbringing and character,
he will make an ideal husband, kind,
affectionate and ever considerate,
something only to be expected of
the worthy son of worthy parents.
“Allow me to say that his private
life is a completely closed book to
me. So far as I know, his favorite
sports may be tripping up nona-
genarian ladies and pinching all-day
suckers from schoolchildren. All I
can say is that if he possesses any
one of the recognised virtues I
haven’t heard of it.
“My utter ignorance of his charac-
ter also robs me of the opportunity
of letting you know what vices the
bridegroom enjoys. These would
naturally be numerous and interest-
ing, as all vices are. But even in the
extreme improbability of his having
no particularly virulent ones up till
the time he uttered the fatal ‘I will’
this afternoon, it is a virtual cer-
tainty that he will in course of time
be charged with having brought them
into the partnership.
“You may have noted, as I have,
the rather faraway look mixed with
one of deep wonderment which the
bridegroom has been exhibiting ever
since he took his seat behind the
cake.
“The faraway part of it is easy to
analyse: it is vitally concerned with
how he is going to respond to this
toast, for by now he will have com-
pletely forgotten all he had mentally
rehearsed for so long and so pain-
fully. The other part may simply be
attributed to his wonder as to
whether in 30 years’ time his bride
could possibly look like her mother.
“He is young and has strong
nerves. For the possession of the
latter he will be grateful when he
sees his bride for the first time be-
fore breakfast without make-up.
“Now let us turn to the bride.
You will have noted her beam —I
refer only to her facial expression.
And why shouldn’t she be registering
delight? Has she not just now
secured a free mealticket for life?
I could boldly rear up and say she
would make him a good wife did not
a natural caution warn me that such
words might be taken down or
remembered by someone present to-
day and later used as evidence
against me.
“As with the bridegroom, you will
also observe conflicting emotions on
the frontispiece of the bride’s sire:
both anxiety and relief are clearly
printed there. The anxiety will be
about the overdraft he’s had to
stretch to provide the feed which you
have all purchased dearly with your
presents. The relief is that he will
no longer have to chew his finger-
nails to the quick as he did when
he had to listen to the bath-heater
running for 20 minutes every night
when his daughter prepared her
bath.
“I feel sure I express the wish of
everyone gathered here that the bride
and her bridegroom will not start
barneying till at least a few weeks
after the honeymoon ends, and that
thereafter wins in the inevitable
shindies to follow will be about
evenly divided.
“Ladies and gentlemen, I will now
ask you all to discharge your glasses
and stand for one-minute’s silence
in memory of another romance.”
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 19, 1952
Vol 73—No, 3797
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
DR. EVATT'S NINTH POINT
Liberal-party headquarters have known for months
that Bradfield might become vacant before the end of
the year. Yet only on Monday of this week did
nominees come up for selection as the candidate for
the seat made vacant by the death of W. M. Hughes.
“Labor,” it is true —but exceptionally—has been
as slow as Liberals to choose a candidate for Bradfield.
Normally it is in the field miles ahead. But this
lime it is playing some tactical game. Nevertheless
it has, as usual, stolen a march on the Liberals, and
Dr. Evatt has taken the field ahead of his opponents,,
stated a policy and plunged into the battle boots and ail.
And, boots and all, he and his followers will
remain in it until the fight is over. They know the
magnitude of the stake which is being played for.
No matter what the virtues of the Government —and
any one of its Ministers has more merits than all the
demagogues of the last “Labor” regime put together-
defeat, or even the severe redaction of its
majority, in Bradfield would be a heavy blow.
The position is all the more exasperating because
there was no immediate reply to Dr. Evatt’s eight-
point “plan for Australia” issued on November 11.
He enjoyed unchallenged front-page publicity in most
of the great dailies of Australia, virtually opening not
only the Werriwa and Bradfield xampaigns for
“Labor,” but also next year’s Senate campaign. And
two days later he was ready to fire a second gun before
his opponents were in the field. The Federal Ministry
was too busy in Canberra. The Liberal headquarters
were too tangled up in what their Mr. Carrick calls “a
record number of applicants” (33, no less) for the
Bradfield seat to take any notice.
Dr. Evatt’s eight points in themselves are, as with
all his plans, pure wind. “Full employment”;
but he does not say how it is to be achieved,
except by “credit - expansion,” which means
inflation. In essence what he proposes is kill a
dragon which isn’t there—to do away with “this pool
of unemployment” which doesn’t exist, except in a
few artificially swollen industries in process of
deflation, and from which the overplus of wage-
earners has not been fully absorbed into other
industries.
In other words, he proposes to sow again the seeds
of a soaring basic wage and of fairy-tale economic
conditions. He proposes to enable —if he can,
which is very doubtful —to restore the Cahills
and the Gairs to their thrones as Socialist Father
Christmases, building vast unproductive works with
vast loafing, overpaid staffs ; works like the Sydney
city railways, which will have endless millions sunk
in them without producing anything for years save a
haven of rest for large numbers of Government
employees. And he intends, no doubt, to solve (he
problems of Mr. Cahill’s bankrupt and crumbling
transport system by pledging the credit of the whole
of the Australian people, including the more frugal
progressive States to feed their feckless vote-buying.
He intends to enter upon a plan of “food-produc-
tion and expansion of rural industries,” though his
party is in the process of denying the rural population
reasonable political representation. And there are to
be “conservation,” whatever that means, and “promo-
tion of higher living and social standards” -of course
at the expense of economic security and “full pro-
tection of secondary industries.”
Dr. Evatt, in his statement, places the interests of
secondary industries “above all.”' He
cautiously that he is willing to provide “national
defence at times of international tension.” What sort
of defence it will be, and indeed what sort his whole
policy will be, can be judged by the fact that behind
the scenes the A.L.P. rulers cannot yet agree to
recognise the A.L.P. industrial-groups, which have
thrown the Communists out of the leadership of so
many key unions.
It can be taken for granted that the policy will be
guided by the same hands as those which guided it
before during “Labor” government—Mr. Ward and
the Leftist crowd who hate all armies except the
Red Army. Also that its main ingredients will be
the class-war and socialisation.
The eight points of Dr. Evatt’s policy, in fact,
could be treated with cynical laughter if he had not
a ninth point which, Tor electioneering, is worth all
the rest put together ; namely, a dynamic energy and
THE PACHYDERM'S POSTERIOR
an initiative which come into play with hurricane
force whenever Dr. Evatt sees political advantage for
himself ahead. It has beaten the Liberals more than
once in recent years, despite the fact that it is used
in completely unworthy causes.
Output and Efficiency
The present difficult conditions in industry will not prove
to be wholly to the detriment of the economy if they result
in both management and labor striving for the greatest
possible efficiency.
The latest Tariff Board report makes this comment on
observing the first signs of increased man-hour output,
which it traces directly to an “easing in demand for
labor.” Many employers (excepting Governments)
have noted that the putting-off of a few hands made
compulsory by slackened demand for goods
resistance” to high prices—has resulted in increased
aggregate output by the hands retained.
This development is accompanied by some over-
taking of scarcity in coal, pig-iron, cement and timber,
and die abolition of most city restrictions in the use of
electricity. They are all signs that, the Tariff Board
declares, “the core of Australian secondary industry is
essentially sound,” if given a fair chance. But it
recognises also that no comfortable words can dismiss
the undiminished peril of an artificially high costs-
regime, artificially maintained.
A representative of a State Government whose
railways, road-transport and other services are an
outstanding example of industry knocked cold by
high costs—the N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture—hails
a recovery in primary production also. The increases
in meat and butter exports are going to earn many
millions more this year, he says, and the recent
lamentations about declining output of foodstuffs is
shown to be “calamity-howling.” But it is quite clear
that artificially high prices rule over this domain as
in that of secondary industries. High farm returns
and high freight-rates are used to justify each other.
Such improvement in production over that of
the years of scarcity is all to the good. But it is not
to be exaggerated. It is not even a certain sign that
we have turned the corner. There can be no sucn
confidence while the ghastly mess in the transport
services in the chief industrial State threatens to stifle
any improvement in the national economy they are
supposed to serve. The only real test of improved
production will be a steadying in prices of goods
produced and services provided. Till those benefits
result any improvement is but ephemeral, like the
grass for a few weeks out west after a moderate rain.
There has been some slight reduction in the Coal
Board’s prices for inferior coal, of which a current
Surplus to demands has actually frightened some people
(who have forgotten how to deal with ample supplies
of anything. Controlled home prices of meat have
dropped a point or two, but are still excessive and
are artificially maintained by regulated prices at home
and Government sale-agreements overseas. The
artificial wage-and-hours structure in secondary-
industry seems to be something that employers and
employees alike refuse to tackle voluntarily, though
if the props could be knocked from under the silly
business high costs just couldn’t last.
We have been lucky so far that unemployment
has not been greater than the trifling change from
the overfull employment of the years when the
Socialists in power proceeded to mortgage the future
in the most reckless fashion. If this symptom were
something that “Labor” politics could cure, as Dr.
Evatt pretends, why has the “Labor” Government m
N.S.W., with full sovereign power in its hands, been
retrenching employment in its own services? Two-
thirds of the current unemployment numbers of all
Australia is reported from Sydney, and the Common-
wealth Minister for Labor quoted figures the other
day showing that during the past 12 years those or
“Labor” government in N.S.W. —88 per cent, of the
country’s strikes and 66 per cent, of working days
lost were also in that State.
Buyer-resistance at home and revived international
competition overseas are bringing Australian industry
face-to-face with stern realities. The Tariff Board
declares that henceforth applicants for protection will
have to satisfy the board that they have “taken all
steps to secure the lowest possible costs of production,”
It refuses to encourage a policy which, it warns
employers and unions alike, can price the products
of primary industry out of export markets as has
already happened to some of our lines in South Africa
and New Zealand—and of secondary industries out of
the home market. It declares that the only way to beat
artificially high prices, legacy of economic conditions
of the past, is through improvement in management-
labor relations.
A year ago the Chief Judge of the Arbitration
Court appealed for just this new order of real co-
operation in industry to avoid a review by the court,
in all the atmosphere of conflict, of the industrial basis
of ruling inflated costs. Both sides rejected his appeal;
and while, in their preferred alternative, the collection
by legal process of evidence on a state of affairs
obvious to every citizen grinds slowly on, their
antagonism is not to be exorcised by any appeal either
to ethics or in self-interest.
One thing is clear. The old means of settling
industrial claims by granting them and allowing the
costs to be passed on to the public is over. The two
sides in industry have priced themselves out of that
exped ent Prospects for enterprise and for employ-
ment now depend, as the Tariff Board says in the
plainest language, upon increasing production by every
possible means and reducing costs . ,
possible level. Without increased weekly output the
reduction of prices which alone will
wages and provide* the means for mdmdual thrfft
the only source of savings from which Government
loans can be supported —is like crying for the moon.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Fate of Prime Ministers
It is becoming clearer with every Parlia-
ment that to take the Prime Ministership
of Australia is to give away many years
of life or health. Only three who have
held the office for more than a few
months have escaped the penalty —
Andrew Fisher, W. M. Hughes and S. M.
Bruce. Each of these got out in time, but
each was marked and aged by the
experience.
Alfred Deakin finished his terms of
office with failing memory and faculties,
and ended his career as a mental invalid at
58. J. A. Lyons died at the same age.
John Curtin cracked under the strain of
office and died still in harness. Mr.
Chifley’s heart succumbed to the burden
when he was only 64. Mr. Scullin under-
went a saddening physical change in the
two stormy and difficult years he was in
power and was never again the same man
physically. And Mr. Menzies and
Mr. Fadden seem to have come to the
stage when their health has to be con-
sidered seriously—both in their fifties.
The curious fact is that what might be
called Prime Minister’s disease is an Aus-
tralian monopoly. Prime Ministers of
Britain and of Canada and South Africa
live long lives as a general rule. Mr.
Chamberlain held office till he was 70;
Mr. Churchill is carrying the burden on
the edge of 80. The Canadian Prime
Minister is over 70. General Smuts was
almost 80 when he put off his political
harness.
In other parts of the British Common-
wealth the Prime Minister attends to little
detail. He is not expected to see an army
of journalists and be cross-questioned by
them frequently. He is sheltered from
contact with people whom it is not abso-
lutely necessary for him to see. He has
capable Whips to transact Parliamentary
detail for him.
He so governs his arrangements that
he has a regular holiday every year —not
the kind of holiday which Australian
Prime Ministers get, during which they
are still at the beck-and-call of the Press
and hundreds of other types of visitor
whom the head of the Government would
never see in any other country, and who
could be dealt with quite as effectively by
a Minister or a senior civil servant.
It is about time that Cabinet took the
matter in hand seriously, and that rules
were laid down to relieve the head of the
Government of some of the strain under
which he constantly works.
U.N.O.'s Sorry Plight
U.N.O.’s 1952 session has been distin-
guished by complete division into two
camps. The Russian bloc will not agree
to anything material which the Western
bloc proposes. The spirit of veto sits
constantly on the dais where the president
can see it.
In the debates the usual flood of reso-
lutions of which nobody takes any notice
have been carried, the usual attempts to
settle the Korean business (which every-
body knows must fail) have produced
nothing but anger and a fresh determina-
tion in the Communists to have their
own way. But all the propagandists are
in favor of continuing the organisation.
It provides them with a lovely ring to
fight in.
Early in the session Mr, Trygve Lie,
the general-secretary, resigned his £20,000-
a-year job. For some time U.N.O. has
carried on with its administrative head
declared black by a large number of its
members, including Russia.
Mr. Lie, apart from anything else, goes
out disgruntled at the obsession of some
people in U.N.O. with “economy.” It is
refreshing to hear that anybody in the
squandering show has heard the word.
His resignation was followed by the
more permanent retirement of the chief
legal counsel, who jumped to death out
a window while suffering from a nervous
breakdown.
It appeared that he was worried by
the U.S. Senate Committee questioning
of fellow-American employees of U.N.0.,
some of whom have failed to answer
questions as to whether they are Com-
munist members or have been involved
in sending information to Russia or else-
where. To replace Mr. Lie the appoint-
ment of a Persian, delegate from an inter-
national lawbreaker-country, is forecast
in some quarters.
Finally, it was announced at the week-
end that the United States proposed inter-
vention in the situation in South Africa
as “a potential threat to peace.” It is,
as is the native disturbance in Kenya,
where whites and loyal blacks are being
murdered. And it is hoped by the U.S.
idealists, who angle for Indian support,
that this will succeed in ousting the
present European rulers and establishing
African native nations under the advice
and protection of the United States, which
will supervise the millennium.
The Russians will welcome the move,
because they have no illusions about
the strategic importance of Africa as an
untapped and accessible reservoir of
resources and communication areas in
which British influence must be extin-
guished. Actually African questions can
be settled only in Africa, and the Aus-
tralian attitude so far of non-intervention
is the right one.
Government Bond Interest
Considering that what helped to keep
down the interest-rate on Government
bonds during the earlier post-war issues
of “security” loans was the knowledge
that the Government would intervene to
support any falling market in those bonds,
it is pertinent to inquire whether the
Government might have been able to
launch the latest modest (£2O million)
loan for a modest (nine-years) term at
something less than 4i per cent, if the
Loan Council had taken its courage in
both hands with an all-Government
agreement that the bonds would be
accepted at face-value for succession-
duty purposes.
A Loan Council decision much earlier
on these lines would probably have
modified the discounting by the market on
previous bonds. The current market
devaluation of those issues is confirmed
by the new issue-rate.
The test, of course, would be seen in
the advance in price of those earlier bonds
if the concession were introduced now.
Buyers would rush them, especially those
who were not original subscribers to the
loans affected. So far not one Govern-
ment interested ostensibly in restraining
the rise in interest demand has suggested
this means of doing so.
Is it too late now to try the effect of
granting this concession for probate
purposes on bonds carrying coupons for
less than 4 per cent, interest?
Wool and Synthetics
G. B. S. Falkiner, the master of Haddon
Rig Merino stud, Warren (N.S.W.), ran
into something in London the other day
which so shocked him that he wrote to
the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association
about it:
Imperial Chemical Industries is com-
pleting a £Al2£ million plant here to make
10.000. of artificial fibre a year....
It will produce 5,000,0001 b. of terrylene and
5.000. of filament yarn. The stuff
is a by-product of petrol. Terrylene holds
its crease after wetting, doesn’t shrink, is
not affected by sunlight. Socks and knitted
garments made from it feel like wool and
are stronger than wool. The cost is
estimated at about 15s. a pound.
While the sheepbreeders were taking
this in, R. F. Sanderson, of a Sydney
woolbroking firm, was speaking in Auck-
land on his way home from a world
tour:
I’ve seen a suit made of 80 p.c. dacron
and 20 p.c. wool, and you didn’t have to
press it after it was washed and dried.
Americans are spending 50 million dollars
a year on publicity for artificial fibres. The
Wool Bureau is spending 750,000 dollars a
year on wool propaganda.
Australia has been hearing about these
synthetics and their alleged threat to its
wool industry for years. Since the war
the synthetics have developed tremen-
dously, but wool has become so popular
that unheard-of prices were paid for it
in 1950 and 1951, and its current price is
very high. It has, in effect, kept Australia
among the most prosperous of nations
since the war.
All the same, the synthetics can’t be
ignored. So far their price has not
threatened wool, but it will be a different
story if generally artificials become
cheaper than wool.
Australia has banned the export of
Merino rams for more than 20 years.
There is now a dispute among wool-
growers as to whether the ban should be
lifted. Those who want it lifted hold
that only by greater world production
can wool compete with artificials, and to
that end American and other woolgrowers
should have the use of Australian sheep
to increase and improve their flocks.
Those who want the ban retained hold
that export would deprive local wool-
growers of good rams and would even-
tually build up sheep flocks abroad to
an extent which would make overseas
textile-makers independent of Australian
wool.
Whatever the rights or wrongs of the
dispute, the fact is that the expansion of
synthetic-fibre-making is developing as a
threat to our most valuable export
The dispute about the ban is no longer
a mere argument of sheepmen. The
whole set-up demands the close and
urgent attention of people and Govern-
ment.
Who Bosses the Railways?
Synopsis of latest events in the control
of the N.S.W. Railways since new Com-
missioner Winsor was told by the State
“Labor” Government that he and other
Government transport administrators
must live within the taxation subsidies
allowed in the Budget and Mr. Winsor
announced that henceforth the railways
would be run “like a private business
enterprise”;
Not, 7: Secretary for Railways announced
that the Commonwealth Arbitration Court
would be asked to reduce weekend and night-
shift penalty rates in railway awards, from
double-time to time-and-a-half tor Sunday,
time-and-a-half to time-and-a-quarter for
Saturdays, from 25 per cent, to 7 2 per cent,
extra for night-shifts, and abolition of 3s. war-
time loading.
Nov. 8: Criticised by caucus members as
acting: “against ‘Labor’ policy,” Winsor issued
a statement asking: whether the court “should
be shut against employers” while open to
unions. Tram and Bus Union secretary said
there might be another 1917 strike if Winsor
persisted.
Nov. 10: Winsor said his proposals would
save £500,000 a year and the jobs of 500 rail-
waymen. He would meet the railway unions
again this week. The Premier had left the
whole business with him to iron out with the
unions. Tram Employees Union said they re-
lied on the Government to prevent any refer-
ence to the court. A.L.P. officials said Winsor
would not get A.R.U. approval for retrench-
ments. A.R.U. guards said they would support
signalmen in 24-hour stoppage in protest
against prosecution of 10 signalmen remanded
on charges of having defrauded railways com-
missioner by making false wage-claims.
Nov. 12; Unions asked Winsor to set up a joint
union-departmental committee to settle rail-
way problems and fix all wages and conditions
instead of the court, Winsor agreed to defer
for 10 days application to court. Premier and
Acting Transport Minister said they did not
know what Winsor would do and they had
not directed him to withdraw court applica-
tion. Caucus members said Winsor’s policy
would be condemned by caucus.
Communist Brown, secretary of Victorian
A.K.U., flew to Sydney to “act as observer.”
Nov. 13: Premier told caucus that but for
recent retrenchments railways would have been
in deficit £7,000,000 this year, and loan money
on railway works, spent at too fast a rate,
would have run out by Christmas. He “under-
stood no more sackings would be necessary.”
Caucus members said if Government allowed
Winsor’s application to reach the court “we
could not face the electors.”
A.R.U. demands that court proceedings
against signalmen be withdrawn a week on
threat of 24-hour general stoppage.
Nov. 14: Secretary of N.S.W. A.R.U. said
Minister told him “retrenchments are likely
to be at an end.-” Union officials “expect move
to reduce penalty rates will now be dropped.”
The truth that the N.S.W. transport
services are really run by and for the
benefit of the unions could hardly be
better illustrated.
White Ensign Club
As well-known in the Navy as “liberty-
men to clean” is the unfortunate truth
that about the only friend a sailor has
in a strange port is the publican—and he
only so long as funds last. A warship,
because of its peculiar living conditions,
is a good place to get ashore from in port.
That’s all right—if you have somewhere
to go.
Officers of H.M.A.S. Albatross, the
naval air-station at Npwra (N.S.W.), have
teamed-up with shire-councillors with the
object of building in Nowra —the
amenities of which are mainly confined
to a couple of cinemas—a club for sailors
on nightly leave. To be called the White
Ensign Club, housed in the old Shoal-
haven private hospital, the club will offer
sleeping accommodation, shoreside tucker,
billiards and a glass of beer to talk over
“old ships.”
Most of the men based on the air-
station have seen action in Korea; most
have come to the training-centre from
places as far apart as Toowoomba and
Fremantle; some from the U.K. All
hands have joined in the battle for funds,
doing what they can with concerts,
boxing-tournaments, tombola (the Navy’s
“housie”) and suchlike.
But, with a target of £50,000, they
can’t hope to straddle it without outside
help. These men are at war—or will be
at the drop of a drafting-officer’s pencil.
And the club building will take the form
of a memorial to all naval men who went
down in World War 11.
Donations an investment in the
security of Australia’s future —can be sent
to E. J. Newell, Secretary, White Ensign
Club Committee, 43 Douglas-street,
Nowra.
Money Means Nothing
Every now and then something breaks
loose which startles the people about
what it’s costing to run this country. The
more philosophic shrug it off , with the
thought that if you’re going to have all
the mod. cons, of a Welfare State you’ve
got to pay for them.
Sometimes, however, we get news of
things we could do without, as instance
the new Brisbane building to house the
Federal taxation crowd there. The
estimated cost is £1,687,000, but an
architect went before a Federal Parlia-
mentary standing committee on public
works and told it he could build within
two years a thoroughly good taxation
office for £BOO,OOO or less.
Practically all your buildings are
costing two or three times what they’re
worth,” said this architect (J. F.
Hennessy).
In another category is the resignation
of W. Chaffey, M.L.A. (C.P., Tamworth)
Irom the N.S.W. Public Accounts Com-
mittee. Mr. Chaffey told the Speaker he
couldn’t take the explanations of expen-
diture given by some departments. He
pointed out that expenditure from the
State’s General Loan Account “made
without Parliamentary sanction or appro-
priation showed a most disturbing trend.”
The trend: £2,554,850 in 1948-49;
£5,447,707 in 1949-50; £16,867,674 in
1951-52.
Mr. Chaffey alleged that the Cahill
Government had deliberately upped its
expenditure in the last two months of
the financial year to impress the Loan
Council, The council wasn’t impressed,
and Cahill’s finances have crashed.
The foregoing are but two items of a
long, long list which can only be got at
by a long and careful study of auditor-
generals’ statements. Few people have
the time or inclination for that. Prob-
ably the politicians and bureaucrats know
that, which is why the disastrous splurge
goes on.
Still "Seething With Ideas"
Seven years ago it was here noted (B.
3/10/’45) that “Adelaide is seething with
ideas.... the place got munition and food
factories out of the war and isn’t going
to see them laid idle About every
second man you bump is an engineer dr
manager or foreman going somewhere in
a hurry.” It was further noted, concern-
ing Premier Playford and his Govern-
ment, that it, too, had ideas, but “there
is no fanfare of trumpets about what will
be done by 1955.”
Nothing has happened in the seven
years to slow down South Australian
progress and development. On the
contrary, what with Leigh Creek coal, the
taking of Murray River water to Adelaide
and points north all the way to Whyalla,
the discovery of uranium, new farms on
Kangaroo Island and in the south-east,
bringing into production of vast new
areas through the use of minor elements
in the soil, expansion of Port Augusta
and building of Salisbury, and a lot of
other things, South Australia is an object-
lesson to its eastern neighbor-States.
An Adelaide “Advertiser” man, survey-
ing his city’s prospects for the next 30
years, estimates that the urban population
will have reached 650,000 in 1982. It
seems a high estimate:
Comparative Population
State. Adelaide.
1921—495,000 .. .. 260,000
1933—581,000 .. 313,700
1945—629,000 .. .. 350,000
1947—646,000 .. .. 382,000
1949—680,000 .. ~ 407,000
1951—700,000 .. .. 442,500
Adelaide has changed from the pro-
vincial capital of an agricultural com-
munity to an industrial city in its own
right. Already the State is overcentralised,
for whereas the metropolitan population
increased by 22.34 p.c. from 1933 to
1947, the purely rural population de-
creased by 8.73 p.c. This ill-balance may
be corrected by settlement in the south-
east and in the north with fuller use of
water and power schemes.
Under nearly 15 years of continuous
government by Mr. Playford’s Liberal-
Country League, S.A. has progressed, and
is still progressing, in a remarkable
manner. The State owes a very great deal
to its Government. It will owe much
more if that Government can transfer the
growth from the capital to the outer
areas. •
A.LP. Dissension
The leaders of the A.L.P. industrial-
groups have unswervingly declared their
allegiance to the political “Labor” party.
Some of them, like Mr. Laurence Short,
have rather meanly played politics to the
extent of giving the sole credit to the
Chifley-Evatt Government for the altera-
tions of the Arbitration law which have
enabled them to capture their unions
from the Communists ; whereas in fact
the Chifley-Evatt amendments were
valueless without the further amendments
of Mr. Menzies.
Political “Labor” in some States is
showing itself ungrateful. The S. Aus-
tralian party, largely dominated by Mr.
Clyde Cameron, one of the foremost
(i Continued on page 7)


“Leftists” in the party, dissolved the indus-
trial-groups. But the meeting of the
Federal Executive of the A.L.P. at Can-
berra last week was not brave enough to
discuss the question, which is about as
dangerous to its present unity as an
uncontrolled hydrogen-bomb.
The matter was made an issue indirectly
through the discussions on general-
secretary Kennelly’s position. Because of
his opposition to the recognition of the
groups, favored by the former Com-
munist, Mr. D. Lovegrove, and his sup-
porters, who now control “Labor”
facilities in Victoria, Mr. Kennedy at the
Victorian conference held early this year
was stripped of his endorsement for the
Victorian Legislative Council, in which
he had sat for years, though he succeeded
in gaining a Senate nomination against the
official ticket of the Lovegrove faction.
At last week’s Canberra meeting the
Victorian party-bosses continued to
pursue him by moving to recommend to
the Federal A.L.P. Triennial Conference
(which meets in Adelaide on January 19
next) that “the office of general-secretary
shall not be held by a member of Parlia-
ment.” The Lovegrove faction moved
this in the certainty that the N. S. Wales
delegates would be bound to vote for it,
they having affirmed the principle inherent
in the motion at their 1952 congress.
This was all the support the proposers
did get except for that of Senator Coles,
of Tasmania, the Queensland delegates
being forced to lie down with Messrs.
Beazley and Clyde Cameron, M.P.s, and
the other two W.A. and S.A. delegates,
though they themselves were not on the
side of Mr. Kennelly regarding industrial-
groups.
A fight is due about relation-
ships between the A.W.U. and the
A.L.P. at next January’s conference. At
the executive meeting the A.W.U. had
the worst of it in a battle against recogni-
tion of the A.C.T.U. as a consultative
body of the party.
The day the conference finished, the
A.L.P. in N. S. Wales suspended from the
party five candidates for Federated Iron-
workers’ Association office for allowing
their names to appear on the “United
Front” ticket in opposition to the indus-
trial-groups’ nominees. It must have
taken a cast-iron nerve in view of the
associations of the A.L.P. Executive itself
and some of its members during the past
few years.
POLITICAL POINTS
There appears to be considerable
concern over the problem of finding a
successor to Trygve Lie as Secretary-
General of the United Nations. Surely
it is up to Australia to make the supreme
sacrifice and offer them the Doc.?
9 9
When this went to the printer aspirants
for the Liberal nomination in Bradfield
were still filing slowly past the judges.
There were 33 of them, and, provided the
judging committee was still capable of
thinking coherently after listening to 33
little addresses on “Why I think I would
make a good successor to Billy Hughes,”
the decision was expected late on Mon-
day night.
9 9
Nominations for the Victorian elec-
tions closed on Friday. There are 150 in
the field, but 13 members (10 “Labor”
and three Country party) are unopposed,
so that 137 candidates will contest the
remaining 52 seats. Hollway’s E.R.L. is
contesting 15 seats (four with Liberal
endorsement and 11 in opposition to the
endorsed Lib.), “Labor” is putting up 57
men, L.C.P. 36, McDonald’s Country
party 15 and the Communists eight.
There are 15 Independents (including
three for Brighton, where Tovell, M.L.A.,
is the E.R.L. candidate and R. E. Trickey,
mayor of Brighton, the endorsed Liberal).
Completing the assortment are two Pro-
gressive Laborites, a Proportional Repre-
sentation Leaguer and one man carrying
the banner of the Henry George Justice
party.
An unusual situation arises from the
nomination of Independent L. T. Mullett,
who has announced himself as a trier for
two seats —Box Hill and Evelyn. He’s
going to make up his mind which seat to
keep after he has won them both. It’s to
be hoped the habit doesn’t spread.
9 9
When N.S.W. Railways Commis-
sioner Winsor announced his intention
of applying to the Arbitration Court
for a reduction in weekend penalty-
rates there was a howl of protest
from railway unions and rank-and-
file “Labor” members of the N. S.
Wales Assembly. While yells of “He
can’t do that” and “Cahill oughter stop
him” were echoing through the Trades
Hall the Sydney afternoon papers came
on the streets. Posters for the rival sheets
stood side by side. One proclaimed
“Penalty Rates. Winsor’s Decision” ; the
other “Penalty Rates. Cahill’s Decision.”
Cynics remarked that it came to the
same thing ; any decision arrived at would
really be the Trades Hall decision. Actu-
ally both boards were wrong. Winsor
commented that so far he had not come
to a decision, and Premier Cahill said
there was no need for the Government to
make a decision until they heard Winsor’s.
9 9
Just when the bottled-beer situation in
Melbourne was reaching the position
where drinkers were refusing to buy the
stuff from other than their regular
supplier the Federated Enginedrivers and
Firemen’s Association pulled on a strike
which looks like putting a damper on the
whole Christmas-cheer trade. And to
think that most people believed brewers
made beer!
9 9
The Doc. at Cronulla: “I would rather
see ‘Labor’ lose 1000 elections than have
unemployment in Australia.” Wot, no
cherry-trees?
9 9
Queensland Premier Gair must be feel-
ing as puzzled as his fellow “Labor”
Premier Cahill, of N.S.W. Like Cahill he
seemed slightly stunned when Menzies
announced a return of income-taxing
powers to the States, but he recovered and
the other day announced that his Treasury
officials were preparing for it. That same
day the A.L.P. announced that it opposed
the whole notion and stood pat for
uniform taxation.
9 9
According to a Melbourne paper there’s
a purge in progress among the local Reds,
some being accused of being “petty
bourgeois elements” and others of being
Security Service spies. The evidence
against the boorjoice lies in their “atti-
tude to women and excessive gambling
and drinking.” Some of the aspiring
Anna Paukers feeling neglected?
9 9
Electioneering in Werriwa (N.S.W.)
Dr. Evatt said this year’s Federal Budget
would take £359 million more in taxes
from the people than did the Chifley
Budget in 1949. Assuming the figures to
be correct it shows what the Chifleys
started when they put this country up
for grandiose social-service schemes, and
launched those extravagant programmes
which the present Administration is trying
to check.
9 9
Evatt’s eight points and one for luck
probably sounded quite attractive to those
who think that prosperity can be achieved
by word of mouth instead of by the old-
fashioned collaboration of brains and
brawn. Under Evatt, “Labor’s” policy is
based on the' belief that wishful-thinkers
are in the majority, and recent by-elec-
tions suggest that the Doc. has good
grounds for the belief. Still, in announc-
ing his party’s policy he was careful not
to mention the only objective of the Aus-
tralian Labor party, as proclaimed in its
printed constitution: “The socialisation
of industry, production, distribution and
exchange.” A reminder of that might
bring folk back to reality, and that would
be dangerous for “Labor.”
9 9
Lang “Century,” which keeps an eye
on Senator “Fixer” Ashley and reports
all his triumphs' has just recorded his
latest; a win in the final of the Parlia-
mentary snooker championship at Can-
berra. And that’s no billiard-marker's
story.
9 9
A lot of Victorian Bumbles are likely
to get a shock from Judge Barry’s judg-
ment imposing a fine of £192 and
Supreme Court costs on Eric Stephen
Loft, a former Mayor of Williamstown,
for having sat unlawfully as a councillor
on 156 occasions from 1947 to 1951.
Barry, J., said that in 1947 Loft acted as
a councillor on three occasions when he
was not qualified, it having been stated in
evidence that wfifti he was elected he was
interested in the firm of G. F. Loft and
Sons, which had contracts with the
council. The firm was formed into a com-
pany in October of the same year with
Loft as director. It was held that on 152
of the 156 occasions Loft acted unlawfully
as a councillor, but genuinely thought he
was within the law. He was fined £1 for
each of the 152 offences and £lO each
for the other four. There were no grounds
lor thinking that Loft misused his posi-
tion as a councillor, but the integrity of
councils had to be safeguarded.
9 9
At Ingham (Q.) a New Australian was
fined £8 for using defaced postage-stamp*.
Well, the price of the things would lead
anyone to suppose they must be good for
retreads.
9 9 .
All was quiet on the soldier-settlement
front until The Bulletin stated (B.
15/10/’52) that “Battalions of Diggers
had qualified for settlement —and can t
get an acre.” A Sunday paper then took
it up, so did various State Governments
and the Commonwealth. Now Minister
for the Interior Kent Hughes says the
Federal Government will “discuss” the
failure with N.S.W., Victoria and Queens-
land “because the scheme has virtually
stopped in those States,” and see about
the Commonwealth taking over the whole
show. All the land-hungry Diggers hope
is that it isn’t just a few more bushels of
bull.
The Gairs are making a great to-do
about the millions of acres they’re about
to cut up for closer-settlement. The catch
is that anybody who gets a block will
have to accept a condition to grow what
the Gairs tell him to grow. Nobody had
better mention sorghum.
9 9
When is a Liberal not a Liberal? In
Victoria the answer depends on what
electorate you live in. In some suburbs
the correct reply is “When he is an
Electoral Reform Liberal opposing an
endorsed Liberal.” That’s fairly simple,
but where the E.R. Lib. is also the
endorsed Lib. and someone else has been
induced to stand as an Independent Lib.
in the interests of the Norman Libs, it
becomes more complicated. There’s a
further complication in the Shepparton
electorate, where the local Libs, in
defiance of the State executive’s agree-
ment not to run a candidate against C.-P.
Premier McDonald, are putting up a
starter who claims to support the Norman
Libs but who, to avoid embarrassing
them, will call himself an Independent
Lib.
Of Hollway’s six rebels, only one
(Tovell, Brighton) missed re-endorsement,
and he was beaten only on the chair-
man’s casting vote.
• •
Leslie Hale, one of the two British
Labor men who recently visited Kenya,
has gone out of his way to attack the
White Australia policy on the grounds
that “a vast area of great wealth in
minerals in West Australia is debarred
from 75 per cent, of the world’s popula-
tion.” Hale is very critical of British
policy in Kenya and of Malan’s policy
in South Africa, but apparently cannot
see that the problems that arouse his
anxiety in Africa are the very things the
White Australia policy aims to avoid.
• ®
“Pom de Migro”; Some years ago
exception was taken in civic headquarters
in Adelaide against the illegal enclosure
of a King William-street hotel balcony
over a public footpath. Contention was
that the street belongs to the citizens, that
a balcony oyer a footpath must be used
only as such ; it must not be enclosed or
converted into a room. No action has
been taken by the City Council, although
the balcony is now being openly used —
diners being served there. Since the first
warning was given, the hotel has Come
into the hands of a new landlord —the
Commonwealth Bank!
• •
Replying to charges made in the Legis-
lative Council of Tasmania of “prepos-
terous” use of Government cars and the
extravagant employment of chauffeurs,
one Government supporter gave a terrible
example of what might happen if a
Minister drove his own car. “There was
always a danger of their cars breaking
down in the country, and in such a case,”
he warned the Chamber, “it would be
undesirable for a Minister to have to
change a tyre or do running repairs.” A
crusted Tory member? No, a dinkurn
“Labor” man.
• 9
Adelaide’s Premier Playford told an
Opposition inquirer that his Government
would tell the Arbitration Court that it
believed in an effective 40-hour week.
Before any union leader or “Labor” poli-
tician gets excited about this, let them
look hard at the qualifying word. An
effective 40-hour week would do wonders.
9 •
Do you want to live as long as your
wife? Join the “Labor” party and you
can’t miss. This, at any rate, appears to
be the moral of this extract from N. S.
Wales Hansard:
The Hon. J. J. Maloney: Every speaker
on the Opposition side has presupposed
that the husband predeceases the wife. Is
there some law which provides that the
husband must die before the wife?
The Hon. A. D. Bridges: He mostly
does.
The Hon. J. J. Maloney : That does not
happen in the Labor party. In the Labor
party husband and wife try to keep together
all through life. What the hon. member
says is all supposition.
9 9
The McLarty Government has granted
B.H.P. a lease of the Yampi Sound (W.A.)
iron-ore fields on a royalty basis, and
the “Labor” Opposition is raising the cry
of monopoly and accusing the Govern-
ment of “selling the people’s assets.” It’s
a strange attitude for a party which, when
in Government a few years before the
war, was prepared to allow Yampi to be
worked in the interests of Japan. As
some “Labor” members still in the House
well know, it was the Lyons Government
that saved W.A. from that boner —by
placing an embargo on the export of
iron-ore.
9 9
Holt, Minister for Labor, scored a few
hits when he spoke at Liverpool (N.S.W.)
on Friday night in support of I. R.
Griffith, Liberal candidate for Werriwa.
Describing the Evatt plan as “a mass of
-pious platitudes,” he mentioned several
points which intending “Labor” voters
should consider;
1. Nearly two-thirds of the total persons
at present drawing unemployment relief
live in “Labor”-governed N.S.W.
2. More than half the total lives in
Sydney—yet “Labor” has been in power
in the State for 11 years.
3. The N. S. Wales Government has spent
£lBO million of loan-money in the past four
years—equal to about half the whole amount
of loan-money spent in the previous 100
years.
4. Yet the Cahill Government has re-
trenched close on 6000 transport employees
in the past year.
“Labor” campaigners in Werriwa are still
making unemployment their main theme.
If they’re not careful they’ll wear it out
before the Senate campaign begins—
and then they’ll have nothing to fall
back on.
• •
How do you expect to get higher wages
if production goes down? All that would
happen would be inflation of tke worst
possible kind You cannot have in-
creased social services, increased wages and
a higher standard of life from lower pro-
duction.
Who said this? Menzies? No, Aneurin
Bevan, the militant La»bor leader in
Britain, to a trade-unionists’ meeting in
Manchester last July.
e •
All by itself the Commonwealth Em-
ployment Agency put 1600 people in
jobs in South Australia in October, and
says it has jobs for 1000 more. How
many got jobs through other means isn’t
stated. So far no “Labor” politician has
seen in this a cause for cheers. Nor,
apparently, has any Liberal —that party’s
publicity being what it is.
• •
A movie-camera took pictures of an
actor near a gang of road-workers in the
heart of Sydney. The workers, after
being assured they weren’t the camera’s
target, said they thought they might be
being “shot at.” But surely they knew
there’d be nothing novel in a shot of
men working. Or would there?
• •
Death has taken a more than usually
heavy toll of members of the Twentieth
Federal Parliament. In the eighteen
months since it was sworn-in five
M.H.R.s have passed on: J. B. Chifley
(Macquarie), E. J. Eggins (Lyne), R. S.
Ryan (Flinders), H. P. Lazzarini
(Werriwa) and W. M. Hughes (Bradfield).
Two Senators, R. H. Nash and E. S. R.
Piesse, both from West Australia, have
also died.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Vingter”: Old George, our liftman,
has never read any psychology either at
academy or in the pseudo-scientific
magazines, yet he hit the nail this week
when, after his lift had disgorged its pre-
ponderantly flapper passenger comple-
ment, there was seen in rather pathetic
isolation a wispy feminine garment,
evidencing its abandonment by the em-
barrassed owner, who had presumably
put too much dependency on an elastic
waistband. George hung the dainty fal-lal
on a peg, but no claimant appeared,
despite the fact that the owner must have
travelled in the lift several times. On
Friday evening George, with the remark:
“These are yours, I think. Miss Tap-
keys,” handed a neat little brown-paper
parcel to a blushing lass who quickly
stowed the bundle away in her handbag.
What’s got us puzzled is just how George
was able to identify her.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pezzi”; By the New Year, an aerial
perspective of Melbourne will resemble
the place where the rainbow ends, with
35 miles of kerbing glistening in variegated
colors. This recently-adopted decision by
the City Fathers to tessellate the pave-
ments could have a disastrous effect on
the lives of the community. With red
kerbs denoting pillar-boxes and fire-
hydrants ; white for bus- and tram-stops ;
yellow where taxi-cabs and carriers may
disgorge passengers and goods, drivers
will most certainly require a color-vision
test. For the more naive members of the
population, the addition of a couple more
colors around the site of the long-pro-
posed Degrave-street subway could result
in a tunnel being acquired at no cost at
all while they were digging for the crock
of gold.
❖ *>
“Clooter”: Brothers, ’tis a frightful
thing to discover yourself to be a moral
coward. It has happened to me, and the
only hope is open confession. Seven times
m the past 15 years I have been reviled,
reported and generally held up to public
ridicule and contempt for smoking in a
non-smoking compartment twice in
trams, five times in buses. In every case
the assailant was a female, five of them
elderly, one young but severe, and one
an “old woman” in male
attire. Long, long have I
waited for the chance to
catch a female at the same
reprehensible practice. It
came last week. She was
elderly; she looked
vinegary ; she sat ahead of
me in a non-smoker on a
bus, and she lit a cigarette.
Stilling my joyous trem-
bling with some difficulty,
I tapped her on the
shoulder and said “Madam,
this is a non-smoker.” She turned,
surveyed me coldly and snapped “Mind
your own business.” This was right into
my hands, for it gave me the next move,
viz., to report her to the official in charge
of the public vehicle wherein the offence
was being so blatantly perpetrated. Gloat-
ing, I half-arose in my seat and looked
back. There stood the conductress, lean-
ing against the door of the compartment,
a cigarette in her mouth. Brothers, I’m
yellow, I gulped and slumped back into
my seat.
❖ ♦♦♦ <♦
“Abi Tonus”: The first issue of stamps
for the combined Territories of Papua and
New Guinea not only aroused the intense
interest of philatelists the world over, but
demonstrated that the local inhabitants
realised the value of first-day covers.
Over £50,000-worth were posted and
quite a lot were collected by native clerks
with the idea of selling them to the
tourists later on. Although the stamps
lack the color and fire of the old Papuan
issues, they are quite distinctive, and the
half-crown specimen, depicting a mob of
sheep guarded by a chap with a large
bow-and-arrow, is certainly unusual.
t> ❖ ♦>
“Slim”: Annual shivoo of the
eurythmics club was a public display in
the town hall. Intent on getting a well-
pedicured toehold on the publicity
involved, class-leader Mireille, profes-
sional model, cavorted skilfully in the
fusillade of exploding flash - bulbs,
manoeuvred too far into the foreground
and came a painful cropper off the edge
of the stage. The polar calm of the
enthralled audience changed to a blizzard
of applause and cheers. The only pose
used by the papers next day was the
unrehearsed one. The accident had been
accepted as part of the act mainly through
the alertness of the instructor, who
applauded warmly when the slip occurred.
* ❖ *
“Bo”; My combination of low sales-
resistance and a fascination for gadgets
explains why our dresser-drawer in the
kitchen is so hard to shut and why
I can boast the biggest collection of
dud gadgets in any city. I have at least
four sorts of bean-cutters, a use for which
could possibly be found, but they cer-
tainly won’t cut beans. In a test on the
first one, her digits and an ancient thin-
bladed knife against me and the bean-
cutter, the wife won by about three-
quarters of a pound—we started with one
pound each—and the ratio has been
slightly her way with each succeeding
vegetable-peeler. The other day I fell
for a two-bob needle-threader. When I
“Oh, no, miss! This one's on me.”
lobbed home with it the wife silently
handed me a needle and cotton. I studied
the instructions and then followed them
out, I thought quite faithfully. Eight
minutes later I held the threaded needle
up in triumph. The wife pulled the
thread out again and once more invited
me to demonstrate the great time- and
patience-saver. I was able to accomplish
it in almost two minutes. She then took
the cotton, gave it a one-second chew
and stabbed it at the needle-eye and pulled
it through—and she says her glasses need
changing. The thing might come in
handy as a window-chock.
“Tarp”: From the shipping news I
note that the Blue Funnel liner Ixion is
in Australian waters. She must be a new
vessel; the old Ixion was torpedoed in
Hitler’s war. She used to be on the
Puget Sound-Japan run and was taken
off just prior to Pearl Harbor for more
urgent freight-carrying duties in the
Atlantic. The story goes that at the time
she was torpedoed she was carrying 20,000
cases of Scotch. It was summer-time ;
the air was warm and the sea calm, and
when a corvette circled round to pick
up survivors she found the ocean dotted
with cases of the stuff. The sight was too
much for the corvette’s crew. They saw
the men of the Ixion were in no immedi-
ate danger and hastily salvaged some 100
cases of the dollar-earning booze. “We’re
saving you from the drink,” the Navy
men yelled, as they subsequently pulled
the merchantmen aboard.
♦♦♦
“W.H.E.”; After Colombo’s invasion
scare had passed in 1952 a two-day race-
meeting was held to aid the war fund.
On the first day, five of the six races were
won by two Aussie jockeys; the local
boys, having been in cold storage since
the cessation of racing two years before,
didn’t put up much of a show, except in
the last event on the programme, which
was an elephant race. There were no
handicap conditions, and entries were
of all sizes and colors. Weights and
form were left to imagination, and the
riders’ •names, being unpronounceable,
were not printed in the race-book. The
line-up at the barrier was a formidable
sight. Youngsters aged about 20 years,
and huge veterans approaching the 100-
mark, were all a bit toey, and quite a
few were left at the barrier when the
starter yelled “Off.” The smallest fellow
in the field shot away like a cannon-ball
and won in a canter. It was a
clean-up for the books. A huge
crowd turned up on the second
day. The drill to quick fortune
appeared to be easy —back the
Aussies in each race and then
go all up on the little jumbo
in the last. Unfortunately it
rained very heavily that day, and
the Aussies were only able to
win the last horse-race, by which
time the punters had lost faith
and few were on the winner.
All hope and the punters’ re-
maining rupees were then staked
on the little jumbo. But the
little fellow had other ideas;
he stood rooted to the
ground when the barrier went up, the
race being won by a huge brute that
ambled off in a swinging gait. No sug-
gestion is made that doping or batteries
were used on this occasion. But the local
boys had certainly lost none of their
native cunning.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Yarrasider”: Disposals dealers in
Melbourne must have made a fortune
out of Army forage-caps. Almost every
newsboy wears one ; those without ’em
look unfashionable. The cap is not worn
in strict regimental fashion, but must be
pulled right down on the head with the
ends that usually button across the front
dangling freely under the chin. The effect
is suggestive of a racing-car driver or a
jet-pilot—which probably accounts for
the craze. So don’t abuse the youngster
who whizzes dangerously along the foot-
path on his bike in the mornings, head
down and hurling papers over suburban
fences. He is probably screaming through
the sound barrier, and if he misses a house
now and then —well, you can’t expect a
chap to worry about trivialities when his
plane is liable to disintegrate without
warning. As for the lad who sells papers
on the street after school, for all his non-
chalance and apparent gaiety his nerves
are really like taut-wire —at any moment
may come the call: “All squadrons up I”
“He’s a lot better-looking than you.”
A LETTER OF THANKS
To Mr. D—It—n
“SwiJliam having expressed some unguarded views on still
red wine in a review of James’s Wine in Australia (B.
5/11/ ’52), a connoisseur, more in sorrow than in anger, sent
him three bottles,* two of wines Swilliam had praised, and
another to show how good Australian claret could be. For
purely selfish reasons the name of this third wine will not
be spoken here.”
Dear Sir, I stagger under your reproof
Of what / wrote on James’s book on wine;
Three bottles of red wine are shame enough
To be brought down on stronger heads than mine.
But don’t expect reform from such a sinner:
I hold, no matter what is said or thunk,
The only use for still red wine with dinner
Is as a pleasant means of getting drunk.
In seventeen years’ pursuit of this ideal
I’ve found a magic bottle now and then,
As though the genie of a single seal
Never inhabited that brand again.
I will admit the truth of all you said
About the bottle that you recommended —
It flowered like an orchid in the head.
And even then, the pleasure wasn’t ended:
My wife went up the street and got another;
The Ed-t-r went home with half a dozen,
And now he smiles upon me like a brother —
Well, anyhow, a not-so-distant cousin.
Eight bottles, all one brand, and all inspired
Like perfect stanzas in a perfect poem!
Beware, my friend! The Fates are growing tired.
You’re overworking them, or I don’t know ’em ;
The time will come; the judgment will recur:
“Ah, yes, it was a good wine in its day” ;
And you will weep, a thirsty connoisseur
For dead perfection that has bled away,
While I, the ignorant bibber of red ink,
The boozer of whatever Fortune pours.
Can dream on drunkenly that all my drink
Is perfect as this present gift of yours.
N-s.w.
S WILLIAM.


“Emma”: His voice was full of
sympathy as he told of his friend’s
troubles: “Bill’s wife got this ’flu wog,
had a relapse and went to hospital for a
fortnight. The day after she got home
she blacked-out doing the washing and
fell against the washing-machine —got
badly mauled. She’s been in hospital ever
since. Poor Bill, I am sorry for him —
he’s had a tough spin all right.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curate’s Egg”: At a Queensland sea-
side hotel around the bewhiskying hour
of midnight a sociable stranger’s to-the-
back-teeth awashness awakened the Good
Samaritan in me. Under his seemingly
definite directions I steered him along the
corridor to a door, outside which he
piteously enjoined me to dump him in
the bed just inside the room, without dis-
turbing the missus in the other cot. I
heard sounds of movement }from the
other bed, but stayed not a split-second
longer than was necessary to deposit my
cargo, which I had debooted in the
corridor outside. Next morning I saw
issuing from the door a very eye-pleasing
young woman, whose obvious charms
made me wonder why the blotto gent,
had preferred to spend his evening in the
bar. At breakfast I saw the gentleman
himself, looking very soreheaded and sub-
dued as he faced across the table a severe-
looking female whom he introduced as
his missus. At another table was seated
the comely lass into whose room I had
steered the reveller.
* ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: My suggestion for speeding-
up the collecting of bus- and tram-fares.
Let the Transport authorities send a man
to Paris empowered to beg, bully, per-
suade or bribe the fashion-designers into
popularising pockets in women’s frocks.
When a conductor calls “Fares, please!”
to a woman, she starts a search among
handkerchiefs, letters, powder-puffs, lip-
sticks and all the other articles carried in
the handbag, and eventually she locates a
small purse, and even then she probably
has to remove a glove in order to get a
coin out of the purse. A small dress-
pocket-for small change would save a
tremendous amount of time.
*X* ♦♦♦ ❖
“Macquarie”; A chap at work came
in looking elated. “Three times in a
month I’ve dreamt I found a ten-bob note,
bought a lottery-ticket out of it and won
£6000,” he said. “And look what I just
picked up down the road! ” He waved a
note triumphantly. “Going to get a
ticket out of it?” somebody asked. “Am
I!” exclaimed the finder. “You don’t
think I’d let a chance like that slip, do
you?” And that’s how the argument
started. One faction claimed that his
luck was obviously “in,” and the fulfil-
ment of the first part of the dream was
the surest of omens that the second barrel
would be equally as certain. The opposi-
tion claimed that to dream the same thing
three times was amazing enough, but the
finding of the note had extended the arm
of coincidence to the absolute limit of
“Sorry I can't stay —I'm a nurse, not a baby-sitter!
possibility ; thus, the odds against winning
first-prize were millions to one. How-
ever, the ticket has been bought and now
we’re waiting. If “Dream” syndicate fails
it’ll be just another one of thousands that
didn’t come off. If it wins, the Press will
be sure to hail the circumstances as
evidence of the farsighted workings of
Lady Luck. But one bloke might take
a lot of convincing—the unlucky cove
from whose pocket the fickle jade pinched
the ten-bob.
* ❖ ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: My own visit to Waterloo
(B. 22/10/’52) was made by tram from
Brussels, and the conductor asked whether
I wanted to go to the village or the field
of battle. For me it was the field of
battle, to see in real-life a place familiar
from childhood, through a sketch of the
battle made by an onlooker; The artist,
a relative of my grandmother, was
Wellington’s private physician, and during
the battle, having neither military nor
medical duties, he must have been one
of the few able to watch the affair objec-
tively. In his sketch the Duke is riding
the famous horse, Copenhagen. With him
are some of his staff, who may be as
recognisable as the Duke to those more
"Don’t be selfish , Babsie. Let Daddy have the comic page if he Wants it.”
knowledgeable than myself. In the back-
ground is a small hill now enormously
enlarged into the Mound, which, so the
guide told us, was built as a perrnanent
memorial to the great victory, and is a
particularly notable feature in that flat
country. The sketch of the battle, perhaps
the only “contemporary picture,” was
folded across and sent off in a letter to
relatives in England.
♦j* ♦♦♦ ❖
“Craiser”: I hope the chap who
won £50,000 in a sweep as a result
of Dalray’s Cup victory doesn t
have the experience of the Moscow boot-
maker. in the Chekhov story. That
gentleman opened his morning paper and
nearly fainted. He had seen the number
of his ticket in a list of prizes in a lottery
and he closed his eyes and gave himself
up to daydreams while his elderly wire
did the same thing. In a few minutes
they were looking at each other with
hatred. No matter what the one wanted
the other wanted something different.
The cobbler had always secretly longed
for an estate in the country where he
could farm, fish and shoot rabbits ; his
wife wanted to go to the Riviera. The
wrangle had almost reached a climax
when it occurred to the bootmaker to
scan the list more closely. The last figure
of the number was a nought; his ticket
ended with a seven. There was no further
need to worry. The damage, however,
had been done.
*> * ❖
“Becks”: A radio-play based on the
murder of poet and essayist Sir Thomas
Overbury, who was poisoned in the
Tower in the reign of James I, set me
hunting up the history of the case, and I
found that, as often happened in those
days, the chief instigator of the crime got
off more lightly than the catspaws. The
real murderess, the Countess of Somerset,
copped a short jail sentence ; her four
accomplices were hanged. One of these,
a Mrs. Turner, was singled out by Mr.
Justice Coke for rare distinction. She
was well known as the inventor of a
yellow starch which had won favor among
the court dandies and beauties; no ruff
or cuff was considered in the fashion
unless it was stiffened with Mrs. Turner s
Iyellow starch. Apparently the judge
didn’t like the fashion; anyway, he was
determined to put an end to it. Telling
Mrs. Turner that he would see to it that
no one ever again used her starch, he
directed that when she went to execution
her garments should be liberally stiffened
with her product. The lady was accord-
ingly hanged in all her yellow-starched
finery, and, says the record, from that day
the whole court switched over to another
brand.
♦> * ❖
“X.M.N.”: My most embarrassing
cargo was the canary our skipper bought
in Madeira on the home trip from South
America to London. It was to be a
present for his wife’s people at Bedford.
I was going to Bedford for the weekend,
so fell for the job of delivering it. As
I went ashore resplendent in my brass-
bound square-rigged suit, the canary, in
its cage, was covered by a large sheet of
brown paper, punctured at strategic spots
for ventilation. The mile walk to the
nearest bus-stop took me past Tate and
Lyle’s sugar-works, where the
girls were going back to work
after dinner. I was very smartly
surrounded by a mpb of howl-
ing females who seemed to be
bent on freeing the canary,
though there was also some sup-
port for the suggestion of “de-
bagging the little in the
pretty uniform.” .1 broke loose,
saw an opening in the scrum
and bolted into the Juljjjlee
Hotel. Over a very small beef I
decided on a taxi, but as soon as 1 got
into one I developed another worry—
how much it would cost me. My pay
was £1 per month, and as the clock began
ticking merrily around I began to have
an awful feeling at the bottom of my
stomach. I saw a tube-station sign up
a side-street, so I made that my destina-
tion. That canary loved trains ; it sang
all the way to King’s Gross, all the way
across the road to St. Pancras, and showed
no signs of stopping when I began my
hour-long wait for the Bedford train. I
don’t know of any way to stop a canary
from singing, unless it be to wring its
neck. The left-luggage office refused to
have any part of my charge ; “livestock”
was outside its province. In that hour
everyone in London must have passed
through that station, and the canary en-
joyed every moment of it. Even the
discovery at Bedford that the canary’s
new owners ran a cake-and-sweet shop,
of which they gave me the freedom, was
small recompense for my agony. I’m
still allergic to cage-birds.
*t* *X* ❖
“Bantar”: Radio astronomers
apparently hold a mild contempt for the
“straight” astronomer. When radio
scientists were holding an international
conference in Sydney recently I over-
heard a conversation between two of the
breed. It went something like this: “You
know that an ordinary astronomer can
tell- the time to a thousandth of a
second” “Yes, but if takes him six
months to do it.”
* ❖
“F.S.”: The Felton Bequest people
ought to be interested in the latest art-
forgery sensation, which beats Van
Meegeren’s. A German artist, Lothar
Malskat, along with a fellow-artist, got
the job of restoring the 13th-century
frescoes in the bombed Lutheran Church
of St. Mary, in Lubeck. What he learnt
from copying the frescoes he apparently
applied as a sideline to copying old and
more recent masters, and since the war
he and his confrere have turned out, so
he says, over 600 fakes of everybody
from Rembrandt, Degas and Corot to
Gauguin, Renoir, Rousseau, Chagall and
Utrillo. Malskat did all the work, and
became so expert that he could do a
Corot in a day and some of the later
Impressionists in less than an hour. His
fellow-conspirator signed the works with
the forged name, sold them to art dealers
and apparently pocketed most of the
money. Malskat got the spike when his
friend received an award for his excel-
lent restoration of the frescoes, went to
the police and voluntarily blew the gaff
on a thriving business.
* ❖ ♦>
“Bert the Carpenter” ; On a shelf in
my workshop I used to keep a little old
alarm-clock. About three times a week
my Uncle Alf used to come in to borrow
tools. Every time he would say it was a
fool idea to have a clock lying on its
face instead of standing up where you
could see the time. My invariable reply
was: “It won’t go unless you lay it face-
downward. It’s no trouble to pick it up
when you want to see the time. It’s run
like that for 10 years, and I guess it U
run for another 10 as long as nobody
messes around with it.” Then he d tell
me that one little bearing was worn, and
if I’d let him adjust it the clock would
run all right in the normal position
Finally I gave in. He got to work with
a screwdriver; suddenly there was
metallic “Whang!” and works flew all
over the shop. There was only one thing
to do; I bought another clock. It has
now reached the stage where it will run
only if laid face-downward. If anyone
wants to strike trouble all he needs to
do is to come into itiy workshop and
suggest that a minor adjustment will hx
that clock so it will run standing up.
AWFUL PROSPECT
“A doctor, writing in fences will make
that plastic-surgery and allied sue women
it possible in less than a centuiy loi all worn
to be beautiful.”
To acquire the Elixir of Life _
Man for long used his best erudition,
To have for his own
The Philosopher’s Stone
Was his one overweening ambition.
To make old men young was a thing
He looked on as something of duty.
That search is now past
But at least, and at last,
He can guarantee.all women beauty.
Not yet, of course. Still, it will come.
When every doc. is a wizard
They’ll fashion a face
That’s a model of grace _
Just as now they can whip out a gizzard.
You’ll mistake Mum for Helen of 1 toy ,
’Teen-agers won’t have any pimples.
Girls may order new chins
Or perpetual grins,
Or a Grecian nose and some dimples.
No more will a woman acquire
Those far-deeper brow-corrugations
From worrying how
She can dron from her brow
The lines which have long been
vexations.
The mud-packs, the lotions, the goo
They use now will all be redundant.
All excited, my dears,
At a prospect that cheers,
When pulchritude’s all so abundant ?
When the 21st century comes
Our world will have nary a hag in it.
Girls will revel in looks
Like you read of in books
But, sisters, there may be a snag in it.
For when all girls have beauty, it’s clear
’Twill be chilling and killing monotony.
And the poor harassed swain
Will cry : “Oh, for one plain !
But, blast it all, they haven't got any !’’
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Met in Melbourne, Toe -H - man
I übby” Clayton, vicar of All Hallows,
Barking-by-the-Tower, puffing one of his
67 pipes. There also. Chief Justice
Herring, president of the Australian
movement, which the padre founded
in 1925 at, the request of Governor-
General Lord Forster. From a simple
start it spread almost as swiftly as the
cactus round his native Maryborough in
Queensland. “Tubby” was born there but
educated at St. Paul’s School, London,
along with G. K. Chesterton and Field-
Marshal Montgomery.
“Macnell”: The other day the naval
air-station at Nowra (N.S.W.) celebrated,
for the first time in Australia, the anni-
versary of what Fleet Air Arm Swordfish
torpedo-bombers did to the Italian Battle
Fleet at Taranto. And that was a tidy
job of three battleships sunk, in addition
to cruisers, destroyers, oil-dumps, sea-
plane-bases and so on attended to. An
honored guest in the wardroom-mess,
Commander L. J. Kiggell, D.S.C., now
commander (air) in carrier Sydney,
responsible for the ship’s flying opera-
tions, On the night of Taranto he was
responsible for waking up the base’s A.A.
gunners—first man in, with flares to
illuminate the target. This he did with
obvious competence, then unloaded his
semi-armor-piercing bombs on a large
oil-storage depot. Lately up Korea-way,
he’s just returned from the Monte Bello
business.
Off to the comparative quiet of direct-
ing Army-administration planning in
Melbourne, Colonel Charles Norman
Peters, after directing Sydney’s recent
Tattoo. Peters’s father left for the Boer
War with the Victorian Bushmen’s Con-
tingent, and decided to try his luck on the
Westralian goldfields on return —so young
Peters was born in Hannan-street, Kal-
goorlie. He, also, left for Africa in
convoy—the first in War 11, Middle East
bound. An artilleryman, Peters, com-
manded the Port Said A.A. defences,
after defending Haifa and Alexandria
against Itie bombers ; he got back to his
25-pounders in time for practice on
Bardia, Tobruk, Derna and other well-
known targets. Then Greece —the
desperate rearguard-actions, escape in a
coastal vessel, Stukas, boat and Peters
badly burnt, and capture. The next four
years were p.-0.-w. time, enlivened by a
series of escape attempts. He goes to
Melbourne from a two-years posting as
senior G. 5.0., Eastern Command.
From an old friend:
James Stuart MacDonald, chairman of the
Commonwealth Art Advisory Board, who died
of a stroke in Melbourne, knew no allegiance
to any school, but he knew painting, and
he knew all schools from a long and cos-
mopolitan experience. He also knew sham
and humbug in art at sight, and was
never slow to denounce it, irrespective of his
own interest —he once faced and won a libel
action arising out of his condemnation of an
“old master” which had achieved considerable
publicity in Melbourne. Educated at Kew High
School, he began his studies at Melbourne
National Gallery when Melbourne was fairly
effervescing with young artists who have since
become famous —the Lindsays, Meldrum and
their crews. But he soon left there and went
to London, and on to Paris to Julian’s, which
placed its unmistakable stamp on him.
For five years he taught art in New York,
but came back in 1921, after war service, to
become art critic of the Melbourne “Herald”
until 1929, when he was appointed director of
the N.S.W. National Gallery, a gloomy institu-
tion on which he had a salutary influence,
particularly in promoting the purchase of Aus-
tralian work. Five years at Melbourne Gallery,
from 1937 onwards, was scarcely a happy
experience, the museum atmosphere of the place
being a little too much for his nerves.
As a member of the Commonwealth Art
Advisory Board he did good work in improving
the style of portraits painted for the national
record, and though relatively a sick man for the
past three years he kept to the end the boyish
zest which distinguished his outlook, his lively
enjoyment of pictures, music, good writing and
radio and moving-pictures. A raging lion in
controversy, he was, nevertheless, a most
companionable fellow, full of bonhomie and
bubbling over with good talk.
“Marrakai”: “Cardie” seeks to correct
your reviewer (“M.H.E.”) regarding the
alleged mistakes in Christian-name of
Cahill. “M.H.E.” was correct in stating
the name as Thomas. Thomas Cahill, a
brother of Paddy, was manager of Wave
Hill, and was never a buffalo-shooter.
Paddy Cahill, Joe Cooper and Cecil Freer
were all prominent in shooting and ex-
porting hides, and were for years in the
front line of that industry. Ben Martin
held the record. In October, 1896, he shot
32 buffalo in one run on the Adelaide
Plain whilst camped at Banyan Tree,
riding Bolivar, a horse bred on Brunette
Downs. This statement is by me, Mar-
tin’s partner, who salted the hides and
shared in the proceeds of the sale.
Mrs. Tineas Gunn, who lives quietly
in Hawthorn, Melbourne, has only two
of the 20 principal characters of We of
the Never Never left to correspond with.
They are the Quiet Stockman, who, at 80,
has retired to Angaston (S.A.), and the
Little Chap, who is Ernest Goss, a
farmer at Swan Hill, on the Murray. The
18th member of her cast to pass away
was Tom Pearce, who first introduced
Mrs. Gunn to the Never Never by rowing
her across the Katherine River. A grave
has been made for him in* the sanctuary
of the Elsey homestead.
A whiff of history wafted here when a
double Earl (Elgin and Kincardine)
landed in Australia the other day. The
double title has been borne by the head
of the Bruce family since 1746, when the
Earldom of Elgin, created in 1633, passed
to Charles Bruce, 9th Earl of Kincardine.
It was Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin
and 11th of Kincardine, British general
and Ambassador at Brussels, Berlin and
Constantinople, who presented the Elgin
Marbles to the British Museum in 1816,
after having had them removed from
Athens at a cost to himself of £50,000.
The present Earl, Edwin James Bruce, as
head of his family is custodian of the
sword of King Robert Bruce, a ponderous
two-handed weapon, sft. 9in. long. He is
also a leading member of a brand of
Scottish freemasonry known as the Royal
Order of Scotland.
Melbourne Bread and Cheese Club,
after 15 years’ residence, has had to get
out of its quarters at Post-office-place.
One-time Knight Grand Cheese, J. K.
Moir, has been made temporary custodian
of its stock of Australiana in his home
at Richmond, which is already crowded
with literary and art relics —among them
a kettle used by Henry Lawson. The
club will be found until further notice
in rented rooms at the corner of Flinders-
lane and Market-street.
Book-collectors from Cape York to
Cape Leeuwin, from North Cape to The
Bluff, are congratulating The Bulletin’s
old friend, Jim Tyrrell, of Tyrrell’s Book-
shop, Sydney, on the appearance of his
Old Books, Old Friends, Old Sydney, just
published by Angus and Robertson. Col-
lectors of Australiana have declared this
book a collector’s, . must. General
readers, too, will find plenty to delight
them in the handsomely-produced and
brightly-written volume, which tells the
story of Jim’s 64 years’ experiences as a
bookseller in Sydney and Adelaide, and
CHARACTER OF SYDNEY
recaptures the charm of the Sydney Jim
knew as a boy in the days of wind-
jammers, cab-horses and the old steam-
trams. Now 77, he sold newspapers
on Petersham and Summer Hill railway-
stations for Henry Lloyd (who founded
the N.S.W. Bookstall Co.), before he
joined, in 1888, Angus and Robertson,
who then had a small shop in Market-
street. Except for a spell when he ven-
tured into a world of curios and antiques,
of stuffed kangaroos and native weapons,
he has been selling books ever since—
to such diverse famous personages as
David Scott Mitchell, Sir William Dixson,
Sir Henry Parkes and Billy Hughes, and
a million plain Australians. The book will
be Red-paged in the near future.
A burly, square-chinned Irish knight,
bearing the historic name Hugh O’Neill,
is having a look at Australia. Chairman
of the U.K. board of the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society, the namesake of
Queen Bess’s doughty opponent was a
barrister before he went in for insurance-
company work. As a soldier, he served
against the Kaiser with the Royal Irish
Rifles. Of the British national health
scheme, he had to say that this activity of
the Welfare State had not interfered with
the operations of private life-assurance
companies, because it provided only the
necessities. Life-assurance in Britain is
as popular as ever.
“S.S.”: There was just one feature of
the Sydney Shavian Playhouse left out in
that Shows article (B. 5/11 /’52) —the
man who founded it. John Gunn, 27,
joined the Royal Australian Naval
College the year Hitler put on his act,
passed-out in 1942, and served most of
the rest of the war at sea. In cruiser
Australia and destroyer Warramunga in
the Pacific fighting, after the war he went
back to England, among the first six to
take on naval aviation. He topped his
class, and, more; important to him, got to
know G.B.S. While on his way to Aus-
tralia in carrier Sydney, Firefly pilot,
Gunn decided to substitute Shaw for
Nelson, and resigned. After a period at
Sydney University he took on journalising
with the Sydney “Daily Mirror,” married
the daughter of Colin Bingham of the
“Herald,” and, two years ago, founded the
Shavian Playhouse. His first play here,
“Raging of the Sea,” was favorably
reviewed by The Bulletin. Back in
London, Gunn began organising again
with characteristic competence, and
founded the Australian Drama Associa-
tion, now under the wing of Sir Thomas
White under the title of the Society of
Australian Writers,
Chairman of the new war-pensions
assessment appeal tribunal, John Watson
was a permanent-Navy snotty who left
the service shortly after going to sea and
took on law. After a year as associate
to Justice Street, he hung out his shihgle
three years before Hitler had him back
in Naval uniform. Naval officer in charge
at Milne Bay at the surrender, Watson
was later senior lecturer in International
Law and Jurisprudence at Westralia’s
University, Forty-one, born at Moree
(N.S.W.), he’s a councillor of the United
Service Institution of N.S.W. and an
executive of the , Ex-Naval Men’s
Association.
A couple of signal honors have fallen
in the basket of the Melbourne University
Law School lately. One of them is an
invitation to Professor Zelman Cowen,
Dean of the Faculty, to be a 12-months’
member of the lecturing faculty at the
famed Harvard Law School. The second
comes to his assistant, Professor David
Derham, who will lecture at Oxford for
two terms. Both expect to cplebrate
Christmas in the U.S, Cowen is a’Rhodes
Scholar.
“Ceg”: Those Low cartoons (B,
5/11/’52) convinced me that never has
Low done better work than he did for
The Bulletin during what may be called
his “Hughes Years.” I used to see some-
thing of the Low family in those days,
and remember how fussy Low was in
the matter of detail in his drawings. If
a cartoon called for depiction of, say, a
steamroller, then off he would go to the
City Council depot for a “model.” If an
animal was called for, a trip to the zoo
was not too much trouble to get it just
right. The chairs, in the famous “Talk
to him in Welsh” cartoon, were those in
the Low flat in Collins-street. They were
always good for a laugh, because the
ornamental wooden scrolls on the backs
came adrift when visitors, who did not
know of the peculiarity, grasped the
scroll to lift a chair, only to find the
things came out by the roots. I recall
that Low was at that time, when in need
of relaxation, somewhat partial to the big
Wurlitzer organ which had been installed
in the Capitol theatre. Perhaps it gave
him inspiration.
“M.G.S.”: Rex Battarbee, looking
more like a bushman than an artist, is
down in Melbourne from the Centre with
another batch of pictures by his protege
Albert Namatjira, as well as some by
Nama’s pupils, who include his 21-year-
old son. With a grin Battarbee relates
that his ex-camel boy has achieved some-
thing no other Australian artist has —
become an Old Master in his own life-
time, to the extent of being found worth
forging. A thriving industry in forgeries
has collected round his pictures as well
as the pictures of Walter Ebatarinja and
other Aranda tribesmen. And the forgers
are declared to be white men.
This Prior-sketched pair hail from
Lucknow and New Delhi —Sukumar Bose
(above) from the siege-city, and Sushil
Sarkar from the capital. Both artists,
they are in Australia to look after the
exhibition of Indian art now showing at
Sydney’s National Gallery, and, as well,
to enlighten any viewers seeking
information on the large and vividly-
colored collection. Both have works
of their own on show. Bose’s
painting of the Magi greeting the Child
was commissioned by the Vatican Society
(to present a Christian picture in the
Indian style) and was exhibited in Rome
during the recent Holy Year. Sarkar is
principal of the leading art-school in New
ARTISTS FROM INDIA
Delhi, where he studied ; Bose, Curator
of Paintings in Government House in
the same city. Both are devotees of that
other international art, cricket,
“Cauboy”: In Melbourne to have talks
with the Federal Government on likely
amendments to the British copyright laws,
Leslie Boosey, of the great musical pub-
lishing firm which goes back to the days
of Bach and Haydn, and the founder of
which, great-grandfather of the present
visitor, had an argument with no less a
person than Beethoven over the very sub-
ject which brings Boosey to Australia.
The Man of Bonn had sold one of his
immortal works to Boosey, who published
it in England, Boosey subsequently dis-
covered that the composer had sold it all
over again to a Viennese in the same line
of business; his indignation was un-
bounded. Fortunately for Beethoven,
there were no copyright laws then. Leslie
Boosey is chairman of the British Per-
forming Rights Society and is a former
chairman of the International Confedera-
tion.
Into the Silence:-
In Perth, at 80, Edwin Alexander Black,
former State Taxation Commissioner. Entering
the Westralian civil service as a timekeeper of
the Fremantle Harbor Trust, he got to be
Under-Treasurer before taking on the taxation
job in 1919. He held it until his retirement in
1936. A director of the Y.M.C.A. and com-
missioner of the Presbyterian Church.
At 95, in Healesville (Vic.), Thomas William
Pockett, 0.8. E., world-famous as a grower of
chrysanthemums. His blooms won prizes in
the U.K. and the U.S., and were sold to pretty-
well every part of the world. He was at one
time curator of the Malvern Gardens.
At 78, in Melbourne, Sir Walter Massy-
Greene, one-time farm-boy, bank-clerk with the
’Wales, Minister for Customs and actmg-Pnme
Minister. National-party member for Richmond
(N.S.W.) for nine years from 1913, he was
defeated in 1922, but returned as a Senator
the following year. Growing business interests
—he owned considerable financial competence-
caused his retirement from politics in 1938. A
director of Electrolytic Zinc, Yarra Falls, Felt
and Textiles, Bradford Cotton and others, he
was knighted in 1933.
In the Ovens District Hospital, at 60, Rev.
Arthur Brown, for 12 years Church of England
rector of Christ Church, Beechworth, and known
widely and well throughout the Bogong district
of north-east Victoria. Earlier in the Victorian
Railways, he was ordained deacon in Melbourne
in 1929. A descendant of John Wesley, founder
of Methodism, and great-nephew of Admiral
Brown, who founded the Argentine Navy and
is remembered by a statue in Buenos Aires.
In Perth, at 66, Ezekiel Benoni McKenna,
ending a long association with Westralian indus-
trial affairs. Employers’ representative m the
State Arbitration Court since 1949, he had been
industrial agent of the Westralian Government
Railways, in which he had spent 50 years. A
hard-working St. John Ambulance secretary and
one-time president of W.A. bowlers.
In Melbourne, Major Jack Magee, well known
in Perth as deputy assistant-Director of
Ordinance, Western Command, at the end of
War II —in which all his six sons were in
uniform.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 73, John Logan
Stout, senior magistrate in Wellington till he
retired in 1947. A son of late Chief
Justice Sir Robert Stout, he collaborated with
him in writing a history of New Zealand for
the Oxford Survey of the British Empires
J L.S. also edited the Law Reports.


{aJhAT fOR. YOU TREAT POOR. GIUS£PP£ UKS THIS?
f/S ONLY TRY TO SWIM SACK. HOME TO ITALY .
NOT UNDERSTOOD


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: We were transhipping
passengers’ luggage from the Broken Hill
express to the broad gauge at Terowie
(S. Aus.) when Mat was pinned by
a plump young woman. “Do please help
me,”, she said. Mat silently transhipped
a couple of suitcases, sundry parcels and
bags, a pot-plant, a bundle of magazines
and a folding baby-cart. Then the lady
handed him a sleeping infant, which he
carried gingerly to the other train. He
thought he was finished then, but she
called to him and handed out a sleepy
toddler. Mat carried it across the plat-
form. Then he stood back. The lady
ignored him and busied herself settling
the children and goods in the compart-
ment. The transhippers stood back, the
guard blew his whistle, the engine hooted
—and the lady suddenly leaned out of
the compartment, called Mat to her and
handed him a brown-paper parcel.
“Thanks for your trouble,” she cried as
the train rushed away. Mat smoothed
the paper round the hard contours of
that bottle and gazed dreamily after the
fading tail-lights. “Now an’ again,” he
said, slowly, “y’ run into the kind o’
woman that makes y’ think.”
* * * *
“Ceg”: Caravanning in S.A., we were
making for Murray Bridge along a back
road when a back tyre blew. With the
light fading we pulled to the side to
camp for the night, and then noticed the
small deserted house. Its thick walls of
pisd and ceilings of wattle-and-daub
whitewashed, it looked about 100 years
old and, with a few repairs to doors and
windows, good for another 100. Every
single thing—flooring, shingle roof,
joinery, furniture and stone fireplace—had
obviously been made from the materials
at hand. On the wall jf one room still
hung a faded picture of an old couple,
in the dress of the ’sixties, sitting stiffly
on wooden chairs in the garden. Gnarled
and knotted hands rested prominently on
their laps. The little picture was mounted
in a wooden frame of gum-twigs. In the
fireplace was an old muzzle-loader gun
of German make and still in good order.
A screw-top flask with some gunpowder
in it tempted a test as to whether the
powder was still good. It was: the sub-
sequent disappearance of some eyebrows
affording the proof. Next discovery was
two china tobacco-pipes, one with the
picture of a Gretchen on it and the other
the Dresden Town Hall. Mouthpieces
and stems had gone, but the bowls were
perfect. An old rusted musical-box with
the names of German tunes still legible
on the lid lay with some notebooks filled
with fine German script. An ancient
grapevine trailed over a pergola, and
there were two well-built underground
tanks. Those old German settlers were
sturdily independent and industrious, and
quite likely many of that old couple’s
descendants fought with the two AT.F.s.
* * * *
“J.D.S.”; On a back scrub-track from
Kalangadoo to Robe (south-east S.A.)
1 came upon a Wattle Range station-
hand counting a large mob of sheep
through a gateway, and hove-to till his
job was done. I remarked that it was a
big mob to count lonehanded. “Yes,”
he said, “2744 ; six over count, but I see
a few strangers amongst them.” Not
seeing him with a tally-stick, or his dogs
barking or scratching on the ground, or
his horse moving from post to post when
he called tally, I asked how he kept
the score. “On me buttons,” said he.
“Undo down, and do up, the waistcoat
just a thousand, me pants another 1200
and so on, but it’s no good with these big
mobs to a bloke with those fancy
bracerless trousers —he gets hobbled,”
* * * *
“Oont”: Donkeys and camels have
one feature in common, apart from their
ability to carry staggering weights on
spindles of legs. When kicking, a horse
lifts its hind-legs, pauses, takes aim,
lingers a bit and lets fly—all separate and
distinct actions. A cow-kick is much the
same. But neither the camel nor the
donk indulges in any of those prelimin-
aries. The hoof rises not at all —it slants
towards its objective from the moment
it leaves the ground. It goes straight,
just a blur in the air and a whizz of wind.
In addition, the donk seems to kick from
the ears: his whole body is put into the
effort.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Have seen several whale-
calves playing around their mothers in
the manner described by “Lemuel G.” (B.
5/11/’52), but the really astonishing
thing is the way the cow calls to the calf
in a foghorn note. How loud and
penetrating it is can be gathered
from the fact that one day the
Wade family, who run Thistle Island
(S.A.) as a sheep-station, hurried outside
under the impression that a steamer had
come into the bay below the homestead
and was blowing its whistle. They saw
it was a cow-whale with her calf; when-
ever the youngster ventured too far away
the cow recalled it with a blaring bellow
audible a mile off. I was talking about
it when a knowall chap told me that the
whale’s lungs don’t connect with the
throat and so it cannot make a sound.
A Norwegian contradicted him. The
sound, he declared, is made by constricting
the muscles around the spiracle breathing-
hole on top of the head and then forcing
air from the lungs through it. “Yoost
like giffing der raspberry,” the Scand
Ided. “I hear it plenty times vhen I
iss vhaling.” Another man, who had
done a lot of listening-in on a destroyer’s
“Look, Mum! Quick!"
hydrophones during the war, said that
“porpoises do the same sort of thing.”
You can hear them snorting and grunting
to each other while they’re submerged.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: From somewhere in the
stand of tall box-saplings a pallid-cuckoo
was whistling shrilly. “'We’ll get a storm
before the day’s out,” declared Long
Fred confidently. That started it. Happy
argued that the shrill piper wasn t the
true storm-cock at all; the real one was the
channel-billed cuckoo. Chicker maintained
.</>
s
“Two gallons , please."
that the whistlings were merely mating-
calls —you heard ’em all day and half the
night at springtime; any storms that
occurred were purely coincidental. But
Long Fred remained unmoved. “You'll
see,” he said with quiet confidence. “We’ll
be bolting for shelter before knock-off
time.” Chick inspected the heavens,
informed the long’un he was mad and
offered to wager a dollar. With the reluct-
ance of a man who hates to rob the
mentally deficient, Fred set him. An hour
before knock-off Nugg heard it—low,
rolling thunder. But the atmosphere
didn't even feel thundery! Nearer and
nearer grew the rumbles. And still
the sky remained cloudless. “It’s a
phenom” Old Chick started, found
he couldn’t finish the word and got out
of it by staring at the smiling sky. He
was still staring when the big truck came
over the hill. Strange the way an empty
1000-gallon tank being transported on a
lorry will give off such a perfect imitation
of thunder.
* * * •*
“Tolraie”; Tell “Clooter” (B.
29/10/’52), before he recklessly sinks his
capital in the Victorian western-district,
that the scene of Nevil Shute’s The Far
Country is laid in north-east Victoria,
in the shire of Mansfield (Bambury in
the book). As for Dorman’s wool-
cheque, many graziers in the Mansfield
district averaged 18s. a pound for their
wool in that peak year. Nor is 1.7
sheep per acre fantastic, as “Clooter”
infers. Two sheep an acre is not un-
common on good properties, and the
country towards Merrijig is considered
the pick of the Mansfield area. The
eminent English author, by the way, lives
near Melbourne, and visits the scene of
this novel occasionally. Mt. Bullen, of
course, is well known to Victorian skiing
enthusiasts.
“8.A.K.”: It was
a wild night outside,
but the men’s hut
was delightfully cosy,
with the kind of fire
roaring in the
open fireplace that
would have turned
even Dean Maitland
into a talkative
bloke. As was to be
expected on such a
night, the conversa-
tion drifted around
to the spine-chilling.
Fisher’s ghost sat on
the bridge-rail again.
The Headless Horse-
man of Berrima re-
peated his galloping
through empty woolsheds, his horse’s
hooves rattling the floor, though neither
spectre nor steed had enough tangibility
to be stopped by the closed doors. Men
were murdered again and their bodies
burnt, and newchums were beguiled into
going prospecting with villainous veterans
who set them •to digging shafts, then
circled in the scrub and shot them from
behind when the hole was deep enough to
serve as a grave. The fire was still hot
enough to roast a bullock when we reluct-
antly broke up for a bit of shut-eye. As a
precaution against the sparks that shot
out of the back-log occasionally, Chips
leaned a spare fibro-sheet from floor to
mantel. I was dreaming that a fellow
who looked startlingly like me was digging
a deep hole, when —Bang! The report
rocked the whole hut, in two senses.
Within seconds five scared men were
milling around in the shadowy darkness
without knowing what they were dodging.
Somebody flashed a torch on —and
switched it off again immediately. “Keep
out of line of the window!” yelled a
voice. “It’s broken; he’s shooting
through it! ” It seemed that we crouched
in the gloom for hours before somebody
was brave enough to light the lamp.
Then we saw the scrap of fibro under the
broken window and the hole in the big
sheet in front of the fire. Moral:
If you must tell ghost yarns remember
that fibro will “fly” if exposed to
excessive heat.
* * ♦ *
“North-5-West”; Queer accidents? A
sheepfarm in a hilly northern Victorian
district generates electric-power for light-
ing and domestic appliances by means of
a Pelton wheel. The dam i's uphill from
the house and the wheel and dynamo
lower down the valley. The pipeline
passes close to the house with a con-
veniently placed valve to control the flow
of water. One evening one of the girls
opened the valve as usual, but the light
came on for a moment only and failed —
it transpired later that the belt-drive had
broken. Suspecting that the failure was
due to blockage of the pipe-intake, the
girl climbed the hill to the dam and
groped in the fading light for the strainer.
Actually this was missing, and her hand
was drawn on to the open pipe-end by
the flow and held by the weight
of the 80ft. head of water. For-
tunately her calls were heard—but
all a man’s strength was required to
release her hand.
* * * *
“Mudbank”: There’s a much simpler
and more convincing explanation than
that put forward by “Scientio” (B.
12/11/ ’52) when a man starts seeing
things in pairs on the Murchison. But
even assuming his fantastic explanation is
true, what happens when the bitch is on
the near side —and it is to be supposed
that this occurs in half the cases? The
observer then would see two dogs to-
gether ; something I’ve never seen, while
the idea of a couple of dingoes chas-
ing a “pack” of wallabies across Lake
Austin is too fanny to contemplate. And
a number of wallabies or ’roos together
is called a “jump” and not a “pack,”
THE RIVER-BOATS STILL RUN
(To L.M.A.)
The river-port roared round you
when you listened to your dad
shout to his skippers and their crews
when you were but a lad.
When you were but a youngster
the steamers all were full,
churning up to Bourke with stores
and hooting back with wool.
When you were adolesceht
what wonders then were seen,
for skippers steered cross-country
in the flood of ’seventeen.
When you were close to manhood
you would turn a wheel
when up the reach and round the bend
the Corowa would steal.
When you were one-and-twenty
and master of a barge,
in the Darling and the ’Bidgee
the wool-trade still was large.
But now you’ve come to forty
afid the river trade is done,
through the channel of your talk
the river-boats still run.
And though it’s well past midnight
and the dawn is coming near,
I listen to the paddles,
and the whistles’ hoot I hear.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


“Clevesby”; Flying-saucers caused the
financial ruin of a water-diviner I met
in a Flinders-street bar. While divining
water in the Simpson Desert his willow
rod gave off clicks like a geiger-counter.
Suspecting the terrain to be shot through
with thallium (he meant uranium, I’m
sure), he staked a claim like a gold-
prospector, but before he could file official
notification in duplicate several aerial
disks flashed in, settled over his
claim and sucked every atom of
energy out of the spot. To prove his
story he showed me that he didn’t possess
a shilling,
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gulliver”: A nor’-west character I
like to remember was an old-time manager
of a station up at the head of the Gas-
coyne, who came to Carnarvon to take
delivery of the first car ever seen in the
district. Arrival of the “go-devil” naturally
caused a stir, and when he drove it from
Dalgety’s store to the Gascoyne Hotel
there was a reception committee await-
ing. The christening ceremony lasted
until about 10 p.m., when eight or 10 of
the boys piled into the chariot for a run
up the road. Lights blazing and bngine
roaring, they flew out over the flats
through Yankee Town to the sound of
“Just been hit by a flying saucer."
song. After about half an hour or so one
of the less-frolicsome passengers became
pensive and addressed the driver. “Go
easy a bit. Bill,” he said. “There ought
to be a pair of double-gates about here
somewhere.” “Them!” roared the
astonished William. “Them! We went
through them three mile back! There’s
part of one hanging on the headlights
now.”
* * * ♦
“J.E.8.”: I’m not doubting wild pigs
are hunted on foot, but I wouldn’t be
game to try it with the Macintyre River
(n.-w. N.S.W.) breed. A swift mount and
heavy .45 revolver are bare essentials to
prevent exciting sport turning into
tragedy. Dogs or no dogs, the
grunter can scent approaching danger,
and holes-up in self-made “kennels” of
black mud, sticks and leaves from the
river-bank. These are big enough to
house a St. Bernard dog, and so neat in
symmetry and finish as to defy specu-
lation on where construction began and
ended. No wise pig-dog would
venture to look into one, but
stands off and barks his chal-
lenge. Should the inmate be at
home he’ll take on anyone or
anything, but before ferociously
charging he cunningly bides
his time until the excited, im-
patient dog weaves himself to a
position facing outlet of the
kennel. Contrary to general
belief, the dog does not immedi-
ately counter-attack, but de-
pends on adroit nimble foot-
work to manoeuvre for swift
snout or earhold. Once the hold
is taken, to let go may mean
death or severe goring. In any
case, the mounted hunter is
afforded time to draw closer
and use his .45 effectively— not
so easy on a swerving, cavorting
horse. Generally one has about
five seconds to decide whether to
stop the charge with contents of .45, or
please the horse and let him go for his
life. He’ll be willing enough.
’* * * *
“Tatauro”: “Bogaduck” has a good
simile in likening a complete termite nest
to a living organism (B. 8/10/’52), but I
can’t agree that there is no central brain
in the nest. It seems more feasible that
each insect is also a brain-cell—a part of
a central brain that directs the activities
of the entire nest. Although an insect
has no reasoning brain, a nest of insects
as a whole might well be capable of
enough thought consciously to direct
those activities which we are in the habit
of dismissing as “instinct.” It is the same
mass-brain scheme which makes a flock
of birds or a shoal of fish wheel as one
individual on the exact instant.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: I’m on the track of a
greater discovery than the renowned
“Johnson’s Antidote,” but it has nothing
to do with the poet’s mysterious herb
which goannas were supposed to chew as
a counter to snake-venom. What’s known
in this eastern portion of N.S.W. as a
sand-cricket holds the secret I’m after—
how he contrives to keep so amazingly
clean. He’ll crawl out of damp,
loamy sand and carry not a speck or
grain on his body. That’s not all; he can
be concealed in sand which is thrown into
a concrete-mixer, whirled around for four
or five minutes until cement, water and
sand have become a sloppy mess engulfing
him, and be completely lost when the
mixture is poured out into a barrow. But
when the “compo” is placed on a mortar-
board he’ll come crawling out —as spotless
as a Rechabites’ picnic! There’s a
fortune in it once I discover the formula.
If a million mothers wouldn’t snap up a
dope that’ll keep kids clean —well, small-
fry must have changed mightily since I
played mudpies.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “Betcha” (B. 12/11/’52)
must be a bit of a sissy not to be able to
hold a trapped dog by the scruff without
getting bitten. And his advice about
throwing a bag or coat over the dog
DETOUR
might be all right if you make sure to
have a bag or coat with you when the
hound gets trapped. That’s like the
people who tell you to use a forked stick
to hold the dog down while you release
the trap —they assume you either carry
forked sticks or there are plenty lying
about. If the trapped dog is really mad
with panic and hurt —too mad to trust —
the sensible thing to do is sit down and
wait. He’ll soon exhaust himself and
calm down, and the scruff-of-the-neck
technique can then be applied.
* * * *
“Laetitia”; I reckon the term “silly
goat” is the greatest of misnomers, citing
the performance of the town herd at
Alpha (C.Q.) when that town was swept
by flood. One night the inhabitants were
mystified when the town goats did not
return home at nightfall. That night the
waters swept down and the townsfolk
flew to the safety of an outlying hill.
There they would have been marooned
without food but for the fact that they
found every Billy and Nanny of the goat
population already ensconced on the one
spit above flood-level. This suggests the
goats had some foreknowledge of the
coming deluge.
* * * *
“Bunny”; Price Maurice, the explorer,
averred that all abos who settled at
various points on the Eyre Peninsula
were bands which had seceded from the
main body of the great Arunta tribe of
The Centre at times of drought and
scarcity of game and water, and that
they settled on suitable grounds as they
found them. Thus we find small bands
on the Mann, Petermann, Rawlinson and
Gawler ranges, and so on to Eucla,
Ooldea, Fowlers Bay, Streaky Bay,
Elliston and Port Lincoln. They appear
to be the same type physically, and use
the same weapons and in most cases same
lingo as the northern abos.
* 4 * *
“Flip”: Despite some Abolying to the
contrary overstocking does aid weed-
growth. In the Maranoa district of s.-w,
Queensland, hundreds of acres of grazing
land are densely covered by what is
known locally as “galvanised-burr,” a
greyish-green and very prickly pest,
in almost every instance as the
direct result of overstocking. Along
stock-routes nean the Maranoa River,
between Mitchell and St, George, this
pest was growing so thickly that drovers’
dogs would not leave the wheel-tracks
of the road, Proof that overstocking is the
major factor in infestation lies in the
fact that any area left unstocked gradually
becomes pest-free, or almost so, as the
body of natural grasses becomes heavier.
The dense growth of grasses resulting
from the abnormally wet seasons of
recent years is in many places choking
out this weed, except where bushfires
have destroyed the grass.
♦ * ♦ *
“Bogaduck”: At least one Australian
bird does fly high (B. 5/11/ ”52), In
1943 I was a passenger in a Yankee
troop-carrying Lodestar. Some distance
ahead I noticed a long string of dots ; as
we drew close abeam of them I saw they
were brolgas on a migratory flight. I
passed a note up to the pilot to inquire
the altitude; it came back with “9000 ft.”
written on it. Later I asked an Aussie
pilot if he had ever noted the height at
which birds fly; he had, and these are
the figures which he supplied: Brolgas
up to 10,000 ft.; wedge-tailed eagles
4000-5000 ft. —at this height always
circling as they survey the country below
—and pelicans, when on those pleasure-
flights during which a great flock will
wheel in the one spot for half an hour
or more, apparently for the sheer love of
gliding around on the uprising thermal
currents, 2000-3000 ft. Everything else
he had noted flew, as “Chefee” claims,
below 500 ft.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Gallagher was pottering
about the bends in his pram-boat look-
ing for gum branches that would make
good elbows for a new boat he was
building. Below Kulkyne Landing he
sighted a likely-looking swamp and was
nosing the boat through the fringing
suckers when a gun went off and shot-
pellets nipped the skin from the knuckles
of his right hand. Gallagher slid below
the gunnel and waited. Nothing hap-
pened. The boat drifted idly, nudging
the suckers. Gallagher sucked the slight
wound, then rose up and reached for his
oars. This time he felt the shot whizz
past his face and he went to the floor of
.the boat. “Some blankard round here's
run amuck,” he muttered, and stayed
down, quaking. Then he heard someone
pushing through the suckers and water,
bobbed his head up and saw White Bob
gaping at him. “Blime,” Bob gasped,
“whatta y’ wear that old grey hat for—
I thought y’ was a flamin’ kanga bobbin’
through the swamp.” Gallagher made
ready to jump from the boat. “Did y’! ”
he howled. “Well, in about two minutes
you’ll think I’m flamin’ Jack Johnson
an’ you’re Tommy Burns.”
* * * ♦
“Lemuel G.”: Cooks—good cooks in
particular are notoriously tempera-
mental, and old Chris, the musterers’
babbler, was no exception to the rule. So,
when on cold winter mornings the native
stockmen, while eating their breakfast,
began to huddle closer and closer to the
cooking-fire, hampering the old boy’s
activities, he began to mutter and scowl
a bit. Eating a few yards away, we
naturally missed most of the storm-
signals, and Chris being an independent
type kept his troubles to himself. Three
or four days of edging past chop-
champing black brothers and leaning
over them to get at the camp-oven proved
to be as much as he could stand. Thrust-
ing the long-handled shovel into the fire,
he withdrew it full of red-hot embers.
These, with one sudden swing, he tossed
into the air directly above the dusky
group, upon whom the embers descended
in a blazing rain, to the great destruction
of shirts, hats and patches of skin.
Then, as they scattered, he hurled an-
other fiery barrage after them, yelling,
“If you want fire, here’s a bit more, you
black so-and-sos!” Requests to authority
for action against Chris fell on singularly
deaf ears —good cooks are hard to come
by, whereas native stockmen are not.
THE SNOWY RIVER
Sometimes in the mind of the lowlands a chasm
comes, .
A loneliness enters the wild mind ot man,
And then with the thunder of mountainous
drums , ’ ,
He speaks in a tongue that the earth under-
stands.
With accents as weighty and white as its
And a soul that’s as dark as the black bph
about,
He speaks of his river; the land that it leeches
And the virgin white burden that comes boiling
out.
In deepest and darkest of winter, and seasons
That timeless stand waiting for something
unknown,
The white Snowy River leaps out, and it
reasons
Like a god that’s been left on the planet alone.
Through the breast of the earth, the cold dead
flood mingles
And shakes with a river-tremble, thunderous
with pain,
Then it spreads into life where the sandstone
and shingle
Slow down around Orbost’s bright red copper
grain.
The spate of its singing is halted by bridges,
And the maize-fields that drain Newmerella’s
sad heart
Are taken and tossed by the Snowy’s white
ridges
And down its loud tributaries, broken apart.
More than a river, the stormy, cold, flying
And insolent water that’s broken with grief,
The blind, hoarsened torrent that’s ceaselessly
crying
To see the far land and the lost fallen leaf:
The river that’s searching and weeping for ever,
Fruitlessly looking since Time first began ;
The passionate, impetuous, wild Snowy River,
It seeks in its fury and sorrow for man.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


rfl Iffl
u mum
K
A good word
for everybody-
FRENCH
Corn Cure
i Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
Anthony Horderns’
Yours—
Water Under Pressure
bn
Installing
a
■■ 'V
m
“Meaevtiw”
Automatic Water Pressure
System
In the house, in the dairy, in the yard or
wherever else you may need it, you, too,
can have a water supply UNDER PRESSURE.
The sturdily-built "NEVERTIRE" system is
entirely automatic and will operate from
any electric supply and its running costs
are negligible.
Three models are available:
280 - 450 - 850 g.p.h.
Get further details from:
Dangar. Gedye & Malloch Ctd.
Malioch House, 10-14 Young St., Sydney
OR YOUR LOCAL AGENT:
Business. Rollery. etc.
A 4\ p.c. Loan
The new Commonwealth loan
which will open on November
25 will seek to raise £2O million
in cash, and will carry interest
of 4\ p.c,, which is | p.c. more
than was offered in March this
year. The current offering will
mature pn September 15, 1961,
which gives the bonds a currency
of under nine years.
On the Stock Exchanges a
yield, including redemption, of
4i p.c. has been sought for
some time, with an immediate
return of 4 p.c. asked for. With
the local-government borrowing
rate at 4| p.c., the present Com-
monwealth loan offering should
be attractive to those who seek
this type of security.
During the 12 months to June
30 last there was a substantial
net disinvestment of Common-
wealth loans by all but Govern-
ment-controlled institutions and
departments.
Between 1948 and 1951 there
had been a steady increase in
the percentage of Common-
wealth Government loans held
by private investors in Aus-
tralia. The proportion held out-
side banks, assurance societies
and Treasuries was 42.1 p.c. in
1948 ; by June, 1951, the figure
had risen to 45.2 p.c.
During 1951 public confidence
in the bond market received a
series of knocks. First there was
the aftermath of the conversion
(to 3i p.c.) of the 4 p.c.’s that
had been compulsorily reduced
to that figure during the depres-
sion. Then there was the
Federal Treasurer’s announce-
ment (on June 18, 1951),
that the position with rela-
tion to the raising of Govern-
ment loans was becoming alarm-
ing, followed by a rise in the
interest-rate. Then the share-
market crashed, business became
slower and some unemployment
appeared. Money became
tighter.
One result has been a sharp
reverse in the trend of private
investment in Government loans.
Outside of bank, life-office
and Treasury investments, the
public holding of Common-
wealth loans had fallen to 39.8
p.c. in June, 1952 (as against
the 45.2 p- c - of June, 1951).
Trading banks’ holdings also
fell during the year from 13.1
p.c. to 11.1 p.c., and those of
life-offices from 9.2 p.c. to
8 p.c. The wad held by the
Commonwealth Bank and its
Savings Bank rose, on the other
hand, from 27.4 p.c. to 29.6 p.c.,
and the holdings on behalf
of Government superannuation
funds went up from 5.1 p.c. to
11.5 p.c.
Between June, 1951, and June,
1952, total holdings of Govern-
ment securities in Australia rose
from £2176 million to £2371
million, so that the holding- of
the Commonwealth Bank, Sav-
ings Bank and superannuation
funds actually increased from
£707 million in 1951 to £975
million in 1952.
These figures are indicative of
the great money-raising prob-
lems which confronted the Loan
Council during 1951-52. In a
year when total loans increased
by £195 million, the trading
banks, life-assurance societies
and the public disposed of a net
£73 million-worth of Govern-
ment securities, which meant
that Government banks and
agencies were forced to absorb
£268 million of Government
paper.
With the increase in the bond-
rate to 4| p.c., and with credit
and exchange conditions tending
to become easier, there may now
be some return by the public
and life-offices to Consols as an
investment.
Rye Park Scheelite
Stagging of the Is.-paid 2s.
shares of Rye Park Scheelite
began in Sydney last week, sales
ranging from Is. 7d. to Is. 2d.
There are five million shares
they issued the prospectus with
its present wording.
The report of the bureau
clearly says that “none of the
ore-tonnages given in the reserves
can be placed in the strict
category of proved or blocked-
out ore: however, from
diamond-drilling results, and on
geological grounds —the most
important of which is the virtu-
ally proved assumption that the
ore in each bed will continue to
the granite surface —the ore re-
“Maybe you 'd better just call me ‘Sir'."
issued by this concern. When serves can be safely designated
capital is fully paid up to as ‘indicated’,”
£500,000 it is expected to have The prospectus claims that,
a working capital of £149,483, allowing for an 85 p.c. recovery
after handing £145,000 to Tung- from an average grade of 1.52
sten Consolidated, Ltd., for thep.c. WD3, at a market price of
White Rock tungsten-mine at 4255. stg. a unit, there is “a
Rye Park, near Boorowa,total of approximately £2,800,000
N.S.W., paying £15,417 inin respect of the so-far-proven
brokerage and preliminary ex-ore reserves of 82,500 tons. On
penses, outlaying £167,600 on a n opencut basis, total operat-
plant and £22,500 on roadfing costs, excluding depreciation,
water-supply and power instal-
lations.
The Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources (a Commonwealth Gov-
ernment body) has reported that
from “combined geological, geo-
physical and diamond-drilling
inv e s tigations approximately
82,500 long tons of tungsten ore
assaying 1.52 p.c, WO3 have
been discovered.” Also, “in
addition to the ore mentioned
.above, there are six areas which
could possibly be profitably
mined.” The report by the
bureau adds that the testing of
the deposits was carried out by
Tungsten Consolidated (the
vendor of the property). Thirty
diamond-drill holes totalling
3060 ft. were drilled, and all core-
assay data used in the compila-
tion of its report were supplied
to the bureau by Tungsten Con-
solidated.
The Rye Park prospectus it-
self mentions that “a general
sample of 25 tons taken from
the top bed and treated in Sydney
gave an average value of 3.2 p.c.
WO3, a further sample of 2cwt.
sent to the Ore-dressing Depart-
ment of the University of Mel-
bourne assayed 3.01 p.c. W 03.”
The prospectus speaks of tung-
sten, molybdenum, magnetite
and fluorite deposits “already
proved and blocked out”;
further, “the 82,500 tons of
proven ore referred to in the
[Bureau of Mineral Resources]
report is confined in an area
only 500 ft. long by 150 ft. wide.”
But the prospectus also refers to
“the report itself providing a
complete description of the mine
and the present proven ore and
probabilities of additional ore.”
The prospectus says that the
full report should be considered
carefully. The Bulletin sug-
gests that the directors them-
selves should have considered
the report more carefully before
are not expected to exceed £4
per ton of ore, on present-day
costs. There is thus a wide
margin of profit.”
Very much will depend upon
whether the quantity of ore
which the Bureau of Mineral
Resources says in one place
is “discovered,” and in an-
other “indicated,” and which
the prospectus does not hesi-
tate to say is “proved and
blocked out,” is really there and
with the values credited to it.
What problems, if any, the 20
different minerals observed in
the course of studying the ore
will create in the treatment-plant
remain to be seen. The claimed
average value of 1.52 p.c. WO3
is nearly three times the head-
value of ore being treated by
King Island Scheelite in Bass
Strait. If prospectus estimates
of recoveries, realisations and
costs can be substantiated there
is about 10s. (subject to taxes
and overhead) a share in the ore
which has been “discovered,”
“indicated” or “proven,” as the
case may be.
Directors of the company are
Sir Harry Moxham (who at
date of the prospectus held
164,400 shares in Tungsten Con-
solidated), G. D. Wharton
(205,000), C. H. Donaldson
(40,300) and H. R. Keed (6500).
Tungsten Consolidated, as ven-
dor of the leases, is to receive
£145,000. There are in all a mil-
lion 2s. shares issued by Tung-
sten Consolidated.
Britain’s Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Mr. R. A. Butler, has
announced that his Government
has achieved an overall favor-
able sterling trade balance six
months ahead of the target date.
In Australia, too, a favorable
balance of trade has been shown
for the first four months of the
financial year. It amounted to
£62.5 million, compared with an
adverse balance of £166.8 million
for the corresponding period of
the previous year.


CAR’S INSIDE STORY
front t/te ftrstyear
So many cars are so alike today it’s not always easy
to know which one you’re in if you’re a passenger.
It’s the inevitable result of mass production.
But the Javelin is not like that. If you have a noticing
eye you can tell the difference instantly sleek lines,
very thorough finish; a functional look.
And from the first quick gear change, the car begins
to tell you something assuming you know about cars
as it settles down to its easy, eager stride.
You look around and see all the leg room and
largeness of the back seats and you don’t believe that
al| litre engine will take 4 big people up to a genuine
80 except that you’ve just done it.
The Javelin is a waste of money if you don’t care what
a car does. There’s such a lot built into it that doesn t
really show until you have one in your hands real
family comfort economy and performance.
Best speed, electrically timed, 80 m.p.h. Acceleration
0-50 m.p.h. in 15-4 secs. (“The Motor” 1952 Road
Test). Horizontally opposed flat-four engine gives
30 m.p.g.
wjPfcl*
e li litre
JOWETT JAVELIN
one day —it has to be YOURS !
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney; liberty
Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Redman Motors, Brisbane;
B.E.A. Distributors Ltd., Adelaide; Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Perth: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Made by Jowett Cars Limited, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire,
who make the Jowett Jupiter convertible class winner
of 9 major trials and races in 1950/51 and, of course, the
famous range of 8 h.p. Bradford commercial vehicles.
*
*
*
A Symbol you will often see
All A.N.Z. Bank buildings and publica-
tions display this symbol, which now
identifies Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited—one of the most progres-
sive banking organisations serving the
people of Australia.
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1835) (Established 1837)
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and
New Zealand, in Fiji, and in London.
Agents throughout the world.
/Housing the largest Sheet Steel Mill
( south of the equator
V :
In this building, at the C.R.M.
Division of Lysaght’s, Port
Kembla, the largest Cold
Reduction Mill in this
Hemisphere is operating.
When sufficient supplies of
suitable raw material are
available, this giant mill will
roll 80,000 tons of urgently-
needed sheet steel a year. %
A turning point of sheet steel output in Australia
has thus been reached. It is an achievement of major
national significance. It will help smooth out the
difficulties of manufacturing hundreds of items
dependent on quality sheet steel. It is a step forward
in tightening Australia’s defence potential at a time
when security is the watchword.
fsd
a
a
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited—General Sales Agents.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon
Street, South Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell str ® et -
BRISBANE- 307-311 Queen Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short
and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON, N.Z.: John Lysaght s
Bristol Works Limited. -
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Mr. Churchill’s Government
has now completed its first year
of office. Thanks largely to the
rough-house brawl which has
set the Labor “movement” spin-
ning wildly in two directions at
once, and to the personal
jealousies among Labor leaders,
the Conservatives find themselves
in a position stronger by far than
was ever expected 12 months
ago. There are indications from
a by-election that, instead of the
pendulum having swung against
them, it has, in fact, done the
reverse.
On the more positive side,
even the doubting among objec-
tive critics have a curt nod of
appraisal for the year’s work, as
if to say: “A good start. Too
slow, perhaps, and certainly too
timid. Now let’s see what you
can really do.” Others are more
generous, especially those who
take into account the sorry state
of the nation’s affairs when Mr.
Attlee threw in his hand. The
creditors were then knocking at
the door. Now, after first being
assuaged and then convinced
that the concern still has plenty
of “go” in it, they have con-
fidence enough to stand patiently
by and watch developments.
But much remains yet to be
done. Intense self-searching
within the Conservative ranks is
very marked at present, and it is
likely that pressure for more
severe national economy will be
applied with some force.
On the score of personalities,
the Government has been
manifestly successful, Mr.
Churchill’s frailty and slight
deafness are bodily only: his
mind and power of command are
alert as ever. Mr. Eden, who
makes the Foreign Secretaryship
seem a straightforward sort of
job,'is a source of confidence
and virtually irreplaceable. Mr.
Butler’s stature has grown, and
he personally is entitled to much
of the credit for our improved
position; he stands third in the
line as a future Prime Minister.
Outstanding among the others
are Mr. Harold MacMillan, who
has given tremendous impetus to
the housing drive, and Walter
Monckton, whose patience, tact
and discrimination at the
Ministry of Labor have served
the nation inestimably by keep-
ing it safe from major industrial
troubles.
Absence of “inside” know-
ledge precludes any opinion as
to how the individual members
of the Cabinet get on together
when off the ground: it is
enough to know how firm and
united they act as a team.
Under Which King?
Although the Attlee-Bevan
struggle is what Fleet-street calls
a “running story” and never
lacks interest, it would not be a
bad thing if the two were allowed
to fight it out among themselves
in private until each had
vanquished not only the other
but himself as well. The cost to
an already impoverished Britain
of a wanton experiment in
Socialism, with its outworn ideas
and dangerous misconceptions, is
nothing short of astronomical.
And the cost of having to bear a
Bevan (which amounts to the
same thing, plus ruthless per-
sonal ambition) is not much less.
It is a happy circumstance that
the present condition of the feud
does not weaken the nation’s
purpose. The effect, in fact, is
to strengthen this purpose, both
by reducing the influence of Mr.
Bevan’s anti-Americanism and
by freeing the Government of
such inhibitions as taking heed
of the glorious aim of the Labor
party —“to unite and fight our
common enemy, the Tories.”
This doesn’t quite fit the proper
function of the party not in
office to provide a strong, search-
ing Opposition ready, when
called upon, to form an alterna-
tive Government. Therein lies
the Constitutional danger, for a
reverse to the Conservatives,
even if they were as inept and
evil-intentioned as their oppon-
ents’ propoganda asserts, would
be an utter disaster for Britain.
Opinions vary considerably as
to the efficacy of Mr. Attlee’s
belated but defensive “big stick.”
Broadly, these opinions fall
between two extremes : (1) An
ultimatum, the very last straw
before expulsion, and (2) a case
of “If I don’t consume you
first, you’ll consume me.”
In truth, both are the weaker
for the Bevanites’ spectacular
success at the party conference.
Mr. Attlee’s is the deeper and
more lasting injury, for his
inscrutable placidity and non-
interference showed him up as
a leader who had lost control.
Mr. Bevan’s reverse, although
only temporary, is more subtle.
His own success, and parti-
cularly the overthrow by the
constituencies of the party’s
ablest worker, Mr. Morrison, has
highlighted his personal unpopu-
larity among the influential trade-
unionists and among the milder
Laborites, who mistrust his
cleverness and fear a repetition
of the 1931 split. In other words,
after a grand orgy of heady
enthusiasm, sobering-up brought
doubts. Dalton, Shinwell and
Gaitskell wouldn’t, perhaps, be
missed, but, for solid value, one
Herbert Morrison was plainly
worth all six Bevanites rolled into
one
So, the “party within the
party” has been censored and
nominally disbanded. It will no
longer meet inside the House of
Commons (but there is nothing
to prevent it from meeting out-
side), and the public slanging-
match is ended, Mr. Bevan may
choose to lie low for the time
being, going “underground.”
Meanwhile, he’ll continue his
self-appointed task of carrying
on “Socialist education” in Great
Britain. He can be expected to
change his tactics when it suits
him (usually about once a week)
and unremittingly to pursue his
quest for power.
“Case” Actress
Australian Margaret Johnston
has earned a unique distinction
for herself as an interpreter of
neurotip “cases,” and stands un-
challenged in parts of this
nature. She is a serious-
minded artist who has never
sought the easy way. Her talent
was soon recognised, for only
three years (and they were
largely taken up with Academy
training) separated her first
Sydney and West End appear-
ances. For a round dozen years
her name has been prominent on
London playbills and cinema
posters.
Yet her well-wishers (includ-
ing most discerning playgoers
and practising theatrefolk) can-
not avoid a feeling that her
career in the post-war years has
somehow promised more than it
has achieved. Notices have been
glowing, but mainly of the
“makes much out of little” kind.
Miss Johnston is a player whom
the mighty Stanislavsky would
have praised for the very
qualities he sought to bring out.
She never merely acts, But always
“lives” her parts, subjugating to
them mind, body and nervous
system ; and so keen is her power
of integration that she can trans-
form a conflicting tangle of com-
plexes into a simple-seeming
unity. The veneer of a facile
technique soon cracks under
such a task. Miss Johnston posi-
tively shuns dramatic tricks. She
may perhaps overdo her realism,
for the stage requires a touch of
artificiality at times.
Indifferent health has brought
her checks as well as disappoint-
ments, but she has hardly been
well-served by her plays.
“Always Afternoon,” dealing
with cuckoldry in a Women’s
Magazine Riviera, was a tinsel
affair with a hint of pornography
that was grossly magnified by
publicity. She had more luck
with Tennessee Williams’s
“Summer and Smoke,” a duo-
logue with dramatic trappings in
conventional overlays. The
critics acclaimed her long role
as a tour de force, but the play
itself was a near miss.
It might indeed have led to
something better than its suc-
cessor, “Second Threshold”
(Vaudeville theatre), in which
Miss Johnston and that perfect
“star” actor, Clive Brook, set
about each other’s ids and
idiocies with a good deal more
energy than conviction. The
play was found in draft among
the papers of the late Philip
Barry and given to Robert E.
Sherwood to complete. It is an
amorphous jumble of histrionics
in which the theme—father-
daughter fixation with the
former’s suicidal tendencies pull-
ing at the daughter’s intended
marriage to a father-substitute —
is overgrown with garish
dramatic cliches and psycho-
logical jargon. Miss Johnston,
sometimes reasoning with her-
self, sometimes cautiously
scheming and occasionally flying
off the handle, is tossed about
between elderly fiance, father
and the boy next-door. It is all
to no purpose. The characters
and the situation are quite devoid
of sympathy.
Once again, her performance
is excellent. All that she seems
to need is a suitable play.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
U.T.9
It costs less when Experts manage your Estate. ..
■EFFICIENT management of an Estate is
dependent on the wisdom and experience of
the Executor or Trustee. In unskilled hands,
wastage and unnecessary expense may cause con-
siderable loss. The relatively small cost involved
in appointing the Union Trustee as your executor
may be more than offset by the careful, economi-
cal management of your Estate.
The specialised knowledge of a group of experts
in every sphere of Estate administration is
permanently available.
Charges, limited by law, are exceedingly moderate.
A confidential interview can be arranged to meet
your convenience.
Phone, call or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne: 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1943 . . 67,014 5 p.c. = 62,500 4,514 1,036,706
1944 . . 60,216 5 „ „ 62,500 3,716 1,040,422
1945.. 67,540 5 „ ~ 62,500 5,040 1,045,462
1946 .. 69,585 5 „ „ 62,500 7,085 1,052,547
1947 . . 79,970 5f „ „ 71,875 8,095 1,060,642
From inner reserves, £250,000 .. 1,310,042
1948 . . 89,127 7 p.c. = 87,500 1,627 1,312,269
1949 . . 101,675 8 r, ~100.000 1,675 1,313,944
1950 .. 104,678 8 „ ~100,000 4,678 1,318,622
1951 . . 108,008 8 „ ~100,000 8,008 1,326,630
1952 .. 110,344 8 „ ~100,000 10,344 1,336,974
There has been an extensive reshaping
of the banking structure over the last
12 months. The change came with the
fall in wool prices from. boom levels,
followed by a spate of imports and drain
on our London funds. At the same time
business had to be financed at a higher
level of costs, and primary producers
leant more heavily upon their bankers
to meet seasonal requirements.
For the banks it all meant a drop in
deposits and growth in demand for
accommodation. To ease the squeeze,
reduce the drain on London funds and
help traders and others in their fight for
liquidity, the Government restricted
imports and made appropriate adjust-
ments in monetary policy, especially in
connection with credit-control. To help
damp down inflation a large part of the
trading banks’ deposits had been frozen
on “special account” with the Common-
wealth Bank. To meet the changed situa-
tion most of the amounts so frozen have
now been released —the alternative would
have been dislocation of the whole busi-
ness structure. In the aggregate “special
accounts” fell from a peak of £575.5
million in May, 1951, to £lB2 million on
October 7 last.
The Commonwealth Bank also revoked
its directive fixing maximum interest-
rates as from August 1, 1952, when
maximum charge for overdrafts with
the private banks rose from 4\ p.c.
to 5 p.c., and fixed deposit rates
were increased slightly, too an
acknowledgment that ultra-cheap money,
and with it unduly inflated capital-values,
were on the way out. Then, last month,
the central bank released its grip upon
the purposes for which bank advances
were made, leaving the private trading
banks free to determine the nature, direc-
tion and volume of their own lending
(subject to Capital Issues Control policy),
according to the canons of sound finance
and the merits of the-horrower. The other
chief factor now limiting the volume of
bank-lending is the overall consideration
of liquidity. All of which is as it should
be.
Over the 12 months to Sept. 30 last the
drop in the Adelaide’s deposits was
£2,734,712 and the growth in its advances
£1,648,235:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Notes .. . . 6,489 6,489 6,489
Deposits, etc. . . 29,188,490 32,181,634 29,446,922
Due other banks . . 1,116,128 744,932 1,035,304
Final div. . . 50,000 50,000 50,000
Liquids .. . . 25,339,775 25,125,642 21,025,986
Advances .. . . 6,920,786 9,770,814 11,419,049
Premises, etc. . . 499,438 523,240 567,722
Other assets .. 169,731 139,990 . 112,983
To meet the drain liquids were drawn
upon for £4,099,656 net —the “special
account” with the C.B. (now £5,218,000)
was reduced by £9,000,000, and Govern-
ment bonds, etc. (£2,138,305) by
£157,858. The holding of Treasury bills
(£5,000,000) increased by £4,000,000, an
indication of the extent to which the co.
came to the temporary assistance of the
Government. When the books closed*
depositors and others could see 68.9 p.c.
01 their money in liquids, and advances
amounted to only 38.7 p.c. of deposits.
It is a very strong position, which should
further improve as money from exports
rolls in and traders reduce excessive
stocks.
The mounting load of operating costs
largely offset the growth in earnings.
After allowing an unspecified amount for
fluctuations in the value of investment
securities and other contingencies,” the
cautious board figured net earnings only
£2336 better at £110,344. It was the best
showing since 1930 and was equal to
8.8 p.c. on capital, or a modest 4.3 p.c.
on capital and reserves combined. The
div. was kept at 8 p.c. The lift in interest-
rates should help to ease the pressure of
costs, and prospects of a better showing
at next balance are encouraging.
The market prices the co.’s f.-p. £1
shares at 335. 6d. (395. 9d. early in 1952)
to return a satisfactory 4.8 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 41s. 4d.
The Government’s proposed banking-
reform legislation, to be brought down
after Parliament meets in Feb., 1953,
contains many welcome features which
will strengthen the position of the trading
banks by giving them a greater measure
of independence and domestic freedom.
Even more important, the ordinary trad-
mg section of the Commonwealth Bank
is to lose its former privileges, or the
most important of them, and become
subject to the same obligations as the
private banks in respect of credit policy,
including “special-deposit” procedure, and
interest-rates, etc., thus eliminating the
potential danger of the private banks
being squeezed out of existence through
unfair competition. The special-account
technique is to be retained, but on a basis
that will allow the private banks to frame
their lending policies with a greater degree
of confidence. Obligations in this respect
will be the Oct. 7 figure, plus 75 p.c. of
any subsequent increase in deposits, pro-
vided the uncalled but callable liability
shall not exceed 10 p.c. of total deposits
of the bank concerned. Although the
Commonwealth Trading Bank is to be-
come a separate legal entity, it is to remain
under direction and control of the same
board as the central bank. Since the two
institutions perform different functions in
the field of finance, many believe that a
healthier position would be created by
abolishing unified control and placing
each under its own and independent
board.
Drug Houses of Australia
Drug Houses and Subsidiaries.*
f Dividends \ Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves. serves.!
£i £ £ £ £
1946 186,350 6000 6| p.c.= 162,326 18,024 798,473
Unexplained additions, £199,260 .. 997,783
1947 214,437 6000 7 p.c.= 179,806 28,631 1,026,364
Unexplained additions, £61.871 .. 1,088,235
Profits, sale of assets, £12,468 .. 1,100,703
1948 255,629 6000 7 p.c.= 198,154 51,475 1,152,178
Share premiums, £283,891 .. .. 1,436,069
From inner reserves, £158,455 .. 1,594,524
Less tax adjustment, £3432 .. 1,591,092
1949 247,128 6000 7 p.c.=231,350 9,778 1,600,870
Written off a/c subsidiary, £26,592 .. 1,574,278
Unexplained additions, £52,997 .. 1,627,275
1950 357,690 6000 8 p.c.=264,400 87,290 1,714,565
Share premiums, £303,924.. .. 2,018,489
Unexplained additions, £31,177 .. 2,049,666
1951 443,629 6000 8i p.c. =285,707 151,922 2,201,588
Share premiums, £157,894 .. .. 2,358,982
From tax reserve, £68,415 .. ..2,427,897
Unexplained additions, £49,828 .. 2,477,225
1952 366,491 6000 8 p.c.=299,755 60,736 2,537,961
* After deducting outsiders’ interest. t Subject to
intangibles.
This big group—parent holding co. and
a dozen operating subsidiaries —manufac-
tures and distributes drugs, proprietary
medicines, cosmetics, medical and scien-
tific instruments and toilet preparations,
etc. The subsidiaries are:
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney and Newcastle; Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins Pty., Ltd., Melbourne;
Felton, Grimwade Dental Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne; A. M. Bickford and Sons, Ltd.,
Adelaide and Brisbane; Felton, Grimwade
and Bickford, Ltd., Perth, Fremantle and
Kalgoorlie; Taylors, Elliotts Pty., Ltd.,
Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville;
L. Fairthorne and Son Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart; Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co. Pty.; Sandos Pty.; Tas-
manian Oil and Drug Pty.; J. Bosisto and
Co. Pty., Melbourne; Jennings Elliott
Dental Co. Pty., Brisbane.
The two lastmentioned cos. were added
to the list during the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts.
The policy has been to finance growth
—rapid since war ended —firstly on bank
overdraft, and then, as the position was
consolidated and earning-power estab-
lished, by the issue of fresh share-capital.
Since 1946 issued capital has increased
by £1,424,442 (which brought with it
£869,670 of share premiums), raising the
figure to £3,999,687 in 100,000 6 p.c.
prefs. and the balance ords. at June 30
last. There was then £28,031 (since paid)
to come on 554,955 £1 ords. put out at a
premium of 15s. each in March, 1951.
Last term exes, (up nearly 33 p.c.) rose
much faster than turnover (up 9.6 p.c.),
which tapered towards the close of
accounts. More goods became available,
prices of some lines eased, credit- and
capital-control tightened, and heavy taxa-
tion and capital commitments had to be
met. The squeeze on liquid resources
precluded payment of an interim div. to
the ords., but the year panned out fairly
well, and a final and total div. of 8 p.c.
p.c. in 1951) was paid, making the
average distribution over the last decade
7.3 p.c.
After reducing stocks to current
market-values (amount involved not
stated) and allowing for depreciation
(£120,847, up £20,695) and taxation
(£359,082, down £166,361), declared profit
of the group was £77,138 lighter at
£366,491. That covered the pref. div.
and 9.6 p.c. on average ord. capital, as
against 13, 10.6, 7.2 and 8.8 p.c. back
to 1948. The net figure disregards an
unexplained addition of £49,828 to
reserves and £68,415 overprovided for
taxation in the previous year.
To meet net additions of £292,730 to
stocks and £219,030 to fixed assets, and
at the same time clip £206,668 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
those on the ord. register put up £294,550
—capital (£249,550) and share premiums
(£157,394) —ahead of original call dates
and book-debts and cash, etc., were
reduced by £46,488 and £55,622 respec-
tively :
D.H.A. and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1950. 1951. 1952.
D.H.A £3,405,000 £3,702,258 £3,996,808
Outside interests* 6,055 1,605 1,753
Mortgages .. 44,250 44,250 44,250
Sundry creditors.. 1,206,857 2,344,435 2,187,767
Tax reserve . . 235,550 544,043 378,820
Pinal div. .. 165,250 169,166 299,755
Freehold, plant, etc. 953,879 1,122,581 1,341,611
Shares, etc. . . 215,683 282,074 269,510
Stocks .. .. 2,778,875 4,094,449 4,387,179
Book debts .. 1,558,466 2,203,798 2,157,310
Cash, etc. . . 119,556 98,921 43,299
Suspense account.. 40,283 70,799 42,766
Excess cost shares 789,632 812,413 817,990
Goodwill, etc. .. 321,153 322,310 337,449
* Includes proportion of undistributed profits.
There was an improvement of £403,889
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£3,769,962, excluding shareholdings).
Since balancing-date “a drastic improve-
ment in the short-term indebtedness has
been effected,” and the financial position
is “well under control,” the chairman
says.
Good progress is being made with the
Perth factory. Capital Issues consent has
been received for “financial arrange-
ments” to build a new factory at Adelaide,
and arrangements have been made with
Danish interests to produce the drug
A.C.T.H. from local raw materials. Im-
port restrictions, the working-down of
stocks generally and satisfactory Level
of returns from exports have eased the
overall position in trade and finance, and
at long last costs show signs of losing
some of their buoyancy. It all augurs
well for repetition of the 8 p.c. div., and
later on shareholders are likely to be
asked for more.
At 335. 6d. (475. early this year) the
f.-p. £1 ords. give an immediate return
of 4.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution. The
prefs. at 235. yield 6 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £52 16s. sd. prefs. and 265. lid
ords.
Concrete Industries (Ausl.), Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Ee-
June Profit. , Dividends ~ serves, serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
1948.. 13,310 6| p.c. = 11,018 2.292 26,475
Issue expenses, £1875 ... . . 24,60 i
1949.. 20,924 8 p.c. = 16,844 4,080 28,680
1950.. 36,638 9 „ „ 26,240 10,398 39,078
Proceeds asset revaluation, £45,000 .. 84,071
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 34,078
Issue expenses, £1667 .. .. 32,411
Unexplained reduction, £14,274 .. 18,137
1951.. 52,638 10 p.c. = 34,359 18,279 36,416
Issue expenses, £1667 .. .. 34,749
1952.. 53,001 10 p.c. = 45,755 7,246 41,990
♦After deducting intangibles, £18,567.
Despite the reduced tempo of activity
m the building-trade and on some sections
of public works, the co. reports a year ol
continued progress and expansion, pro
duction and sales being more than main-
tained in all sections of the undertaking,
except the new cement-brick works. They
came into commercial production about
half-way through the term, and their
product is said to be competitive in price
with the clay article.
The parent (holding co.) and its dozen
subsidiaries are in the concrete-construc-
tion trade, and their activities, which are
spread around the continent from Towns-
ville (Q.) to Perth (W.A.), range from
manufacture, reconditioning and lining
of water-supply pipes (the line on which
the business grew up) to erection of
“Monocrete” homes, schools, factories,
the making of concrete tiles and
bricks and to a wide range of other
concrete articles used by public authorities
and in rural and other industries. Total
output is taken almost in equal propor-
tions by the building industry and by civil-
engineering and public-works projects.
Last term existing plants were extended,
a factory to turn out pre-stressed concrete
beams, etc. (first of its kind in Australia),
was erected, mechanical production of
paving flags, kerbs, etc., was begun, and
erection of a new factory at Darra, near
Brisbane, was put in hand. The value of
pre-stressed concrete lies in its saving in
materials (concrete and steel) and its wide
field of uses.
To help meet the outlay involved
100,000 new £1 shares were issued at par
in March last, lifting issued capital to
£550,000, of which £19,176 was still to
come when the books closed. The
buoyancy of costs and bigger allowances
for depreciation (£32,997, up £13,064) and
taxation (£39,000, up £21,134) gobbled
practically all the gain from increased
turnover. The net result was £53,001 (up
£363), equal to 11.6 p.c. on average capital
as against 15.3, 12.5, 9.9 and 7.8 p.c. back
to 1948. The div. was maintained at a
generous 10 p.c., which can be taken as
an expression of the board’s confidence
in the outlook. Reserves at £41,995 in
excess of intangibles (£18,567) are none
too stout a prop for capital. Still, at the
chief production-centre (Villawood, near
Sydney) the various subsidiaries have set
up alongside one another, and their
operations follow flow-lines, thus quick-
ening and cheapening production, which
means much in this class of business.
The financial position improved follow-
ing introduction of £129,581 of fresh
share capital:
Consolidated Figures.
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £281,585 £300,000 £401,243 £530,824
Creditors and
overdraft .. 69,268 115,525 229,660 257,569
Tax provision 8,778 11,231 19,750 43,374
Final dividend 9,844 14,846 20,854 24,297
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 48,777 52,195 91.396 110,119
machinery.. 121,250 116,039 182,608 221,321
Vehicles and
furniture.. 23,587 83,849 43,618 56,559
Stocks . . 139,417 160,489 244,330 315,823
Debtors . . 64,939 117,695 145,360 193,665
Cash.. .. 235 413 611 570
Intangibles*.. 18,567 18,567 18,567 18,567
* Less patents reserve ( £16,000).
To meet net additions of £70,377 to fixed
assets, £71,493 to stocks and £48,305 to


DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attorneys,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. A us-
tralian and Overseas Patents and Trade
Marks. — Advt.
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSS
osuijjvan
jA rrwo. _
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Vatson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
,AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS 1 PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Bead,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BA RRE RE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
■without effort and
You will at once,
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
bakrere distribution CO.
(Dept. So), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
sdf
HOME ELECTRICITY
Handbook, for those living beyong areas
served by electric power lines. Gives in-
valuable advice on Generating Units, Bat-
teries and Their Care, How to Wire the
House, Suitable Appliances to Use, Run-
ning Costs, etc. 3/3 posted, money back
guarantee.
WISHAKT,
83 Railway Road, Blackburn, Vic.
Permanent Trustee Company of
New South Wales Limited
NOTICE OF MEETING
THE SIXTY-FIFTH
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF
SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Company’s Offices,
28/25 O'CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY,
on Tuesday, 25th November, 1952,
at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS
To receive the Directors’ Report and
Balance Sheet to 30th September, 1952.
To declare a dividend.
To elect two Directors. Messrs. Jack
Riverstone Faviell and Frederick Bowman
Fleming retire in accordance with the
Articles of Association, but are eligible
and offer themselves for re-election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their re-
muneration. Messrs. R. W. Nelson,
Wheeler and Barton, Chartered Account-
ants (Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for re-appointment and offer
themselves accordingly.
To consider any other business of which
due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
N. L. SHAW, Manager.
12th November, 1952,
TENDERS
for m purchasi or
COPRA PLANTATIONS
Sealed Tenders endorsed “Tenders purchase Kyllert Estate ’’
will be received by
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
[Trustee of the Estate of the late Petrus Laurentius Kyllert]
until 5 p.m. on the 16th day of January, 1953, for the
purchase of the following Copra Plantations
• “Stockholm” —Bainings District, New Britain.
474 hectares 99 years lease from 7/2/1930.
Formerly 282 hectares planted 40,000 palms and algo
3,500 inter planted cacao.
• “Londolovit” —Lihir Island, New Ireland
290 hectares 99 years lease from 27/10/1926.
Formerly whole area planted 40,000 palms.
• “Maragon”—Simberi Island.
294 hectares Freehold.
Formerly whole area planted about 23,000 palms.
Full particulars on application
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
133
ml
II
m
'e/urice
AUSTRALIAN
FOR 57
YEARS
MEIEOPOUM
llf* ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
{lnc. in Q’ld. 1895)
Over the years funds of the A.M.L.
have been applied to aiding
national development, and its
sound and progressive policy has
provided a financial bulwark for
thousands of Australians.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
TODAYS PROTECTION 'TOMORROWS SECURITY
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
WITH WHICH IS UNITED
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED
Registered Office : 271-279 C //Ins St., Melbourne, Victoria
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER. 1952
LIABILITIES
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—
-10,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each
£
£10,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL—
-3,726,025 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, fully paid
4,800,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, (2/6d. paid
3,726,025
4,800,000
£8,526,025
Paid-Up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business) ...
Final Dividend Proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
6,726,025
5,000,000
235,411
304,527
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities ( including Provisions for
Contingencies)
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to Other Banks
The Queensland National Bank
Limited (in Voluntary Liquidation)...
12,265.963
197,195,079
47,484
445,646
918,400
210,872,572
Liabilities under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, Forward Exchange
Contracts, etc. 18,134,655
£229,007,227
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers _ •••
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other
Banks . _ •••
Treasury Bills—Australian Gov-
ernment
Public Securities (at or under morke-
value) _ ••• . •••
(i) Australian Govt. Securities
(ii) Other Govt. Securities ...
(iii) Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities’ Securities ...
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit
£
9,076,619
5,176,341
930,318
7,000.000
3,830,233
1,439,814
652,784
34,837,000
13,278,143
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting provision for
debts considered bad or doubtful ) _ ...
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
(at cost less amounts written off)
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company (at cost) (The Company
has made neither profit nor loss) ...
All Other Assets
Liabilities of Customers under
Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
Forward Exchange Contracts,
etc*—as per contra ••• •••
76,221,252
128,530,691
3,474,530
2,000
2,644,099
210.872,572
18.134,655
£229,007,227
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBEM9S2
To Expense —Head Office, 651
Branches and Receiving Offices
( including Directors' Fees £9,000) ... 4,823,777
„ income. Land and Other Taxes 899,503
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down ... 616,965
£6,340,242
To Amounts written off Bank
Premises
„ Dividends—
Interim paid 28th May, 1952...
Final proposed—payable 26th
November, 1952
„ Balance Carried Forward
100,000
235.411
235.411
304,526
£875,348
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions and
other income, after deducting
interest paid and accrued on
deposits, rebate on bills current
at balance date and appropria-
tions to the credit of Contin-
gencies Accounts (out of which
accounts provisions for all bad an
doubtful debts have been made)
By Net Balance —brought forward
from 30th September, 1951 ...
„ Net Profit for the year
6,340,242
£6,340,242
258,383
616,965
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Figures are stated in Australian Currency)
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OFAU S ™ * J- U MJTE°he Head Office
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with th ® ba,an “ s ined b all the information and
and with the certified returns from the branches. We have obt “ nce shcet an d Profit and
explanations we have required and we are of the opinion th J* 1 f the state of the Company s
Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and -r acconHng to the best of our
affairs and of the results of the business of the Company for the ye ° of t || e Company.
Information and the explanations given to us and p.c.A. (AUST.W
Melbourne, 30th October, 1952. SHERRARD WARNOCK, F.C.A. (AU .)J
SHERRARD WARNOCK,
book-debts the co. went outside
for only £27,909. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£184,818) was £64,781.
Present trends indicate that
the current difficult period will
be shortlived, the chairman says.
And the new lines recently added
to the list of manufactures are
expected to develop into satis-
factory profit-earners. The
market sums up the position by
pricing the f.-p. £1 shares at
28s. 6d. (365. early in 1952) to
return 7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or 6.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover
is 21s. 6d.
Mount Morgan, Ltd. (Q.)
Three new projects at Mt.
Morgan will call for capital ex-
penditure of about £2,000,000
spread over the next seven
years. Increased removal of
overburden to ensure continuity
of ore - supplies, particularly
from the Sugarloaf extension of
the ore-body, will call for invest-
ment of £1,000,000 in addition
to the annual charge against
returns from ore-production.
This capital expenditure is
expected to be “gradually
and completely redeemed in
later years.” Removal of
overburden has always been
one of the co.’s biggest prob-
lems. A further £850,000 is to
be spent on extension, recon-
struction and modernisation of
mills and mine, the aim being
bigger throughput at lower cost.
And since production of pyrites
from crude-ore now offers “a
most attractive source of addi-
tional profit,” new plant for the
purpose is to be installed at a
cost of £150,000. Last term the
co. turned out 52,670 tons (up
31,370 tons) of pyritic concen-
trates, assaying 48 p.c. sulphur,
and the new plant is expected
to lift the figure to 180,000 tons
p.a.
Given reasonably stable rela-
tionship between costs and metal
prices, it is anticipated that at
least half the total proposed
capital outlay can be provided
out of earnings without reduc-
ing the amount available for
distribution among those on the
ord. register. For the year to
June 30 last the co. netted
£385,578, of which the pref. div.
took £21,000 and £280,000 (20
p.c. on capital) was handed to
the ords.
At an early date shareholders
are to be asked at an extra-
ordinary general meeting to in-
crease nqminal capital. The
notice calling the meeting will
indicate the type of shares to be
issued and the amount of addi-
tional capital to be raised, the
chairman says. The market for
the co.’s f.-p. 10s. ords.
strengthened from 225. lOd. to
245. 3d. over the last few weeks.
King Island Scheelite (paid
capital £500,000 in f.-p. ss.
shares) has just announced a
final div. of 35., making 6s.
(120 p.c.) per share for the year
to Oct. 31 last as against Bs.
(160 p.c.) for the previous term.
Treatment and profit figures are
not yet available, but the inten-
tion was to spend about £300,000
out of the year’s earnings on a
new Marcy-type mill and 18 new
tables in order to quicken and
cheapen throughput. The Lon-
don price of wolfram, which
averaged £S26 16s. 2d. per unit
for 1951, recently stood at
£S2I 9s. 4d. On Melbourne
’Change the price of the co.’s
scrip has eased from 51s. to
41s. 6d. over the last nine
months.
# * * *
Despite labor and other diffi-
culties, Great Western Consoli-
dated’s 30,000-ton-a-month mill,
erected on the Copperhead lease,
near Southern Cross (W.A.),
started up according to schedule
at end October, and is reported
to be operating satisfactorily.
The initial feed will come
mainly from the mine quarry,
where there is some 790,000 tons
ore averaging 3.4dwt., and from
ore broken underground in
development and stope prepara-
tion. Underground ore-reserves
are put at 1,300,000 tons, ex-
pected to average s.sdwt. The
co., formed early in 1950, has
£1,768,000 of capital to feed in
10s. shares, of which 14 p.c. is
held by Western Mining Corp.
At March 31 last £629,738 had
been spent on mining and de-
velopment, £621,170 on plant
and £297,199 on housing. The
market prices the scrip at 9s. 3d.,
as against 7s. 2d. about six
months ago.
* * * *
At Blue Spec, on the faraway
Pilbara field (W.A.), whose anti-
monial concentrates have always
been a headache to the manage-
ment, grab-sampling on Nos. 1,
3 and 4 levels suggests the pres-
ence of high-grade tungsten-ore
over widths of from 12in. to
96in. The sampling, carried out
by Bewick, Moreing and Co.,
the co.’s mine managers, con-
firmed earlier indications. . It is
too early yet to say what
quantity of tungsten-ore is avail-
able, or what average assay-
value is likely to be. Paid
capital is £162,000 in f.-p. ss.
shares, the price of which shot
up from ss. 2d. in Sept, to
10s. Id. following the latest
announcement and then eased to
Bs. Bd.
* * * *
Australian Development,
N.L., continues to strike it rich
at Noble’s Knob on the patchy
Tennant Creek field. Those on
the register are to receive
another 6d. per Is. share
(£75,000) on Dec. 24, making
total div. payments £900,000.
Paid capital is £150,000. The
scrip has had a fairly steady
market within the 18s.-21s.
bracket since the beginning of
1952.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Wearing a blue lace ballerina, Elizabeth
Northcott looked really radiant when she
received guests at a five-o’clock party
• on Friday, with her father the Governor
on her right and her fiance, Squadron-
Leader Russell Nash, on her left. The
rooms at Government House were deco-
rated with large bowls of flowers from
the gardens, which are vivid with color
at the moment.
The 300 gu,ests, mainly from Sydney’s
younger set, looked most decorative in
themselves, and wore some beautiful
cocktail-clothes. Notable were Mrs.
Philip Parbury, who wore a white
sharkskin dress with a halter neck and a
vivid red stole, and Diana Phipps, whose
draped dress of vibrant green was worn
with black jet.
Mrs. Alan Coleman’s tobacco-colored
dress was in chiffon shantung, by far the
most popular and effective material worn.
Mrs. Laurie le Guay wore pale-blue nylon
seersucker with a small black hat. Mrs.
Peter Chambers’s black organza over
pale-blue was topped off by a fly-away
wide black hat. Mrs. Tom Bateman was
in grey brocade, her sister, Trixie McGirr,
in green tie-silk. Anne McCauley, whose
navy chiffon was printed with little white
dots, was with her sister, Mrs. D. Stewart.
One of the prettiest hats was the small
platter of rosebuds and lily-of-the-valley
worn by Twink Parker. Sheila Collett,
who was receiving congratulations with
her fiance, Dr. Geoffrey Cutler, wore
Swiss flowered cotton in predominantly
green colorings.
☆ ☆ ☆
Christmas is a’coming and parties
gleam ahead, so here’s a couple of recipes
for savories which might come in handy
for harassed hostesses. Both are served
in pastry boats. First is made from sweet
corn mingled with finely-chopped onion
and lemon-juice. Just empty the corn
from the tin into a saucepan, add the
juice of one lemon, pepper and salt and
onion. Heaf it and thicken slightly with
cornflour. It’s rather a change, and really
delicious.
For the second, melt a tablespoon of
butter in a saucepan. Blend with one
tablespoon of flour. Add the juice from
a tin of asparagus-cuts and a little salt.
Stir constantly to keep perfectly smooth
and about the consistency of thick cream.
If it is too thick add a little hot water.
Add the asparagus and serve hot in
pastry boats.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the luncheon of the English-speaking
Union during the week 20 of the 120
guests were judges (the legal variety).
Fortunately they “broke step,” as it were,
and were seated at various tables. Had
they all been at the official table the
effect would have been far too awe-
inspiring for comfort. Sir Owen Dixon,
Chief Justice of Australia, was the
speaker (and doubtless thp reason for the
20 “J’s” appearance). Mr. Justice Herron,
president of the E.-S.U., was in the chair,
and N.S.W. Chief Justice K. W. Street
(this Letter’s favorite orator) returned a
very polished vote of thanks. Hostess
was Mrs. E. R. Kirschner, the only
woman on the new council of the E.-S.U.
Noticed in the assembly were Lady
Plowman, Mrs. Florence Taylor, Mrs.
Persia Porter, Mrs. Simpson Lee, Mrs.
Harry Twigden, Mrs. E. J. Brady and
Mrs. W. R. Dovey.
☆ ☆ ☆
This Letter salutes the passing of a
famous woman journalist who died in
Brisbane last week. Miss Winifred
Moore was a woman of culture and
understanding, who, with 36 years of
active journalism to her credit, was
regarded as one of the Commonwealth’s
outstanding newspaperwomen. Born in
England, she came to Australia as a
young girl and lived in the Innisfail (Q.)
district, where she taught music. From
1914, when she joined the staff of the
“Daily Mail,” she was engaged in writ-
ing of women’s interests for Brisbane
newspapers until her sudden death last
week. She was also a lecturer in journal-
ism at Brisbane University.
# V
“Winkles and Champagne” is the
name of the outdoor party being
arranged by Mrs. Sam Lands at her
Point Piper home for Sunday night. In
aid of the Gladys Moncrieff Polio
Appeal, it is to be adorned by the com-
pany from “Kiss Me, Kate,” and there
is to be a parade of the most individual-
istic beachwear designed by Frankie
Mitchell. Whether there will really be
winkles is not quite clear, but the
word sounds gay, and as there will cer-
tainly be oysters and champagne, it
should be a pretty winkly sort of party,
# #
Wedding-dress for June McCausland
when she marries Ross Shepherd at St.
Jude’s, Bowral, on Saturday will be of
white Swiss organdie with a crinoline
skirt and a pin-tucked bodice. Her two
attendants, matron-of-honor Mrs. Morine
Smith and bridesmaid Margaret Hopkins,
of Wollstonecraft, will wear white
organdie over pale blue. Reception is to
be held at the Coppins Country Club,
Burradoo.
# #
Winner of one of the 1953 Common-
wealth Literary Fellowships, Margaret
Trist, is well known to Bulletin readers
as a writer of short stories. A Queens-
lander born at Dolby, she has already
had four books published and plans to
use her £6OO Fellowship to write an his-
torical novel about the settlement of the
Hdwkesbury River district. The wife of
a civil servant, Margaret Trist has a
son, Dexter, who is 18, and a
daughter (13) named Naelo, which is
aboriginal for “night.” Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
V H V
Nesta Griffiths’s new book, Some
Southern Homes of N.S.W., is expected
to be ready for sale early in December.
Into the story, which deals with the early
settlers from Bong Bong to the Monaro
and west as far as Jugiong, Miss Griffiths
has incorporated tales of the early days
learned from many well-known families,
such as the Gordons, of Manar, the
Rutledges, of Gidleigh, the Faithfulls, of
Springfield, the Throsbys, of Throsby
Park, and the Gibsons, of Tirranna.
Those who enjoyed Miss Griffiths’s
previous books, Point Piper, Past and
Present and Some Homes and People of
N.S.W., will look forward to this new
publication.
# * #
According to Mrs. M. E. D. Moore,
principal of the Memorial College of
Household Arts and Sciences, about
£lO,OOO-worth of fat is thrown away by
Sydney women every week. The college
is making an appeal to housewives to
donate this waste fat to the Memorial
College. It will be collected from any
city suburb in lots of 201 b. or more by
Mr. J. C. Tomlin, of 714 Harris-street,
Pyrmont, who is co-operating with the
college in this appeal. In country towns
the woolselling brokers will take the fat
(which should be clarified, of course) and
will send the price of it to the college.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Eastern Command Fete and Fun
Fair which is to be held this year on
December 5 should give an opportunity
to get some Christmas presents early
while enjoying oneself and helping
various charities as well. The main bene-
ficiary of the fete is the War Widows’
Association, towards whom the members
of the Eastern Command, as serving
soldiers, feel particular sympathy,
tr ☆ ☆
An attractive little art exhibition was
opened at the Forum Club by Stan
Cross when the president, Miss Ruth
Beale, entertained about 70 guests to
sherry and tea. The 50 pictures were not
representative of any group or “ism,”
said Miss Dora Toovey, who is one of
the exhibitors, so there could be no
monotony. Among the guests were Mrs.
Walter Jardine, Miss Carrie Lanceley and
artist Byram Mansell.
MELBOURNE
The visiting American golfers and
members of the Australian team were
guests-of-honor at the late-afternoon party
given in their home by the U.S. Consul-
General, Henry Stebbins, and Mrs.
Stebbins. The hostess’s attractive frock
of duck-egg-blue Honan silk had a
portrait neckline and bouffant skirt. Lady
McConnan’s ballerina frock was of
anthracite-grey self-patterned brocade
taffeta. Mrs. Chester Guest’s short black
faille frock was strapless, Mrs. R. H.
Spraggett’s black frock was beaded and
sequinned on the shoulders and draped
skirt. Mrs. Angus Jones and Mrs. Janies
Jacobs wore royal-blue lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Edward E. Robbins’s natural
shantung frock had the off-the-shoulder
cut. Lady Hardman wore a navy white-
starred taffeta frock and a small hat of
white grosgrain. Mrs. Earl Daum’s
evening gown was of scarlet Chantilly lace.
Mrs. Everard Baillieu matched her
scarlet black-fringed stole with her shoes,
and teamed them with a very wide-skirted
grey Honan silk frock. Mrs. Keith
Morrison wore a black picture-hat with
her grey-and-white-spotted silk frock.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Gordon Coulter, wife of one of
our Civic Fathers, returned recently from
a trip to England and America, and con-
fesses she was more interested in looking
at gardens than at shops. The Coulter
home is set high on a hill at Toorak and
the garden sweeps down to the bank of
the Yarra. The landscaping was carried
out under her direction, and is now one
of the show homes of this city. Mrs.
Coulter, who assists her husband in many
of his charitable undertakings, and is a
member of several committees, is tall and
slim, with silver hair. Gardening is her
chief delight.
☆ ☆ ☆
The announcement that Lady Brookes
will be the E.R.L. candidate for Toorak
in the forthcoming State elections will
certainly arouse the keenest interest
among women, for her record of service
to the State is an impressive one.
In World War I she was with the Red
Cross in Egypt. Returning, she joined
the Children’s Hospital committee, later
being invited to become president of the
Queen Victoria Hospital. This position
she has held for 30 years, and she has
seen the Queen Victoria grow from a
70-bed hospital to one of 400 beds, staffed
by women only. Last year 5000 women
were given medical attention, and there
was not one maternal death.
In World War II Lady Brookes
joined the Red Cross executive, handed
over her lovely home, Kurneh, as an
officers’ convalescent home, and she also
took a job in a munitions factory. She
has been a Divisional Commissioner in
the Girl Guides, and until last year was
chairman of the Animal Welfare League,
which she, with Mrs. Lort Smith, founded
25 years ago. Her four days a week at
the Q.V., where she personally is in touch
with women patients, has made her fully
aware of the needs of hospitals, and she
is out for better housing and better
hospitals. Lady Brookes, .who has three
daughters, makes pottery as a hobby.
The new silhouette used by Douglas
Cox in his coats, suits and frocks for the
coming season tends to be longer in the
body and the skirt, though he has
modified the long line used by designers
overseas—skirt-length is 2in. shorter than
last year’s. Varied and tasteful are the
tweeds seen in this collection. There are
chevrons, spots and stripes, and jersey
comes strongly into the fashion picture.
Ribbing is used in the same color but
w T orked into yokes and sleeves and so
forms interesting contrast to the plain
fabric.
The new woollens, many of them copied
locally from Italian designs, include
Ottoman faille, worsted faille, wool gros-
grain, a jersey with a boucle finish, a set
of poodle coatings and a very extensive
range of tweeds, including the popular
chickenfoot and houndstooth.
New colors are sable (a very deep black),
mandarin-pink, guava-red, biting-lime,
sherry, powder, jewel-box (navy) and
emerald. The choice of coat is an indi-
vidual one. The loose-hanging travel-coat
is still good ; so is the fitted coat which
has either a pleated or flared back. One
of the most striking coats was of the
loose-hanging type, fashioned in tangerine
wool, and featured wide tuxedo fronts
and “tulip” pockets.
The Chinese collar was seen not only on
frocks but on fitted coats. Shawl collars
made an appearance, and also featured
on travel-coats was the welted yoke-
line, set low on the shoulder. One of the
most attractive jersey frocks was in pale-
jade-green. It was worn with a matching
stole lined and fringed with yellow.
Another fashion-pointer was the use of
tucking on sleeves.
Cocktail frocks and evening gowns were
shown. Nattiest style for a teenager was
a navy French pin-spot faille with a
fitted waist-length jacket edged with white
Swiss lace. The bodice also was edged with
white Swiss lace. A lovely ball-gown of
apricot satin had the bodice tucked to
match the full skirt, which had side tuck-
ings. There was also a bridal gown of
white slipper satin which had the portrait
neckline filled in with white guipure lace.
The sleeves were long and tight-fitting
and the skirt, fully-flared, was cut into a
slight train.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Frank O’Collins, from Frankston,
was guest-of-honor at a luncheon given
at the Hotel Australia by Mrs. P. L. Cole-
man. The hostess, who leaves early next
year for the coronation, also had at the
party fellow - traveller Mrs. James
Ferguson. Mrs. Coleman wore a
cinnamon-brown frock and matching full-
length coat; her small hat was fashioned
of flowers. Mrs. O’Collins wore with her
slate-grey suit a wide-brimmed black
straw hat. Her two daughters, Mrs. Jim
Peters and Mrs. Kevin Coleman, were at
the luncheon, the former in a large white
hat trimmed with black pleated chiffon
and a black suit, the latter in peacock-blue
coat and scarlet cloche.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn is organising
a mannequin-parade, which will be a
highlight of the garden-party to be held
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Alec Russell,
Mawallock, Beaufort, on November 29.
The local Girl Guides Association will
benefit from the proceeds.
☆ ☆ ☆
Fingernail polishes are undergoing
changes. The latest fashion fantasy is
“White Pearl,” an opaque white with a
delicate mother-of-pearl sheen. It’s to be
worn with black, white and evening
pastels, and is also a perfect polish for
brides. “Cotton Candy Pearl” is a rich
pink with the slightest suggestion of lilac.
Wear it with browns, beiges, pinks and all
the glowing iridescent shades of taffeta
and shimmering satins. “Rose Pearl” is a
glowing rose touched with silver high-
lights, and dramatises blues, greens, greys
and blacks. “Pink Spanish Pearl” is a
true jewel tone and is a sparkling fuchsia
with pink lights. It is worn with purple,
blue, grey, mulberry and wine shades.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney and Adelaide guests were
among those invited to a buffet-dinner at
the East St. Kilda home of the Don
Hutphisons. The party served to show
the paintings recently completed by the
hostess, who next year intends holding
a private exhibition. Mrs. Hutchison
wore a short dinner-frock of ice-blue-
and-silver lame with a short black velvet
jacket embellished with the frock
material. Black, which has become the
smart uniform for night-wear, was chosen
by most of the guests, among whom
were Mrs. L. Leahy, Mrs. George Hangar,
Mrs. O. Smith, Mrs. • Ray Johnson and
Miss Alyce Wyatt, Mrs. Norman Lynch,
Mrs. George Lawrence and Mrs. E.
Haisman.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF ISEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LAURENCE ALFRED BENNETT for-
merly of 21 Church Street Ryde in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARJORIE LINDA
BENNETT has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 3542 of 1952 on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 22nd day of January
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
free of charge from MESSRS. DAVID S.
DIND & CO., Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK FURNER late of Forbes. —
TAKE NOTICE that NITA JUNE
FURNER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3751 of 1952 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 27th day of January
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MAXWELL
GLASHEEN, Solicitor, of 3 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARGARET CECILIA SMITH (nee
STONE) late of Redfern in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN CLIFTON SMITH has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4777 of 1951 on the
grounds of your adultery If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Bth December
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. COL-
REAVY & O’LEARY, Solicitors, Wingello
House, Angel Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUOHAN. Registrar.
/ 11 »
A-' . • .1*
\ GEORGE ST
SYDNEY
568
\AV
O
X7l
Keep Cooler
TRACTOR
UMBRELLAS
Plain Brown Duck
Covers.
Complete with steel
frame, 3-piece wood
handles with Tilting
Joint.
sft. spread .... 103/9
Sift, spread ... 117/9
Baft. (2nd qlty) 92/6
6ft. (to order). .£7/3/6
Post, and Insurance,
4/3 in N.S.W.
or F. 0.8., Sydney.
BEACH
UMBRELLAS
4Jft. to Bft. spread
from 89/11 to £l2/15/-
Send for Samples; Prices; Measurement
Sheet for Every Type of Blind
BE READY FOR A HOT SUMMER
PTY
LTD.
Dept. “B,”
568 George St.,
Sydney,
N.S.W.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
“They Knew What They
Wanted”
This play at Sydney Mercury
by Sidney Howard, who came
up to fame with Eugene O’Neill
and died an extraordinary death
by running over himself with his
own tractor, is a simple, earthy,
vine-fragrant little comedy with,
in spite of its American setting,
much of the flavor of a Maupas-
sant short-story.
It’s about a kindly and ex-
plosive old Italian vigneron who,
when he woos a wife by corres-
pondence, makes the fatal mis-
take of sending her a photograph
of his handsome young foreman,
pretending it is his own —with
the consequences to be expected
and with a very human solution
to them.
One astonishing flaw in John
Kay’s production was the sub-
stitution for the rich comedy-
character of the traditional Irish
priest obviously required by the
script wise, silver-tongued,
jolly, rubicund, severe on heretics
and radicals but very fond of
Tony’s wine and not at all
averse to kissing his bride —of a
long, lank and lugubrious young
man in dusted hair and sorrowful
greasepaint wrinkles who was
possibly meant to be some sort
of American hillbilly preacher of
the nonconformist variety but
who emerged as a fantod never
seen on earth or in heaven.
There was, too, probably a lot
more comedy to be got out of
the teetotal doctor who samples
the wine at the wedding ; though
Barrie Cookson, within the
limits of a precise and self-
effacing personality, did make
him amusing enough. Some
canned music offstage for the
wedding fiesta would have been
better sung by living voices or
else dispensed with.
But in spite of these flaws the
play is alive, vigorous and full
of pleasant laughter the whole
way through, and on the first
night got the heartiest ovation
this reviewer has seen or heard
for years. Which was due to
the admirable sturdiness of
Rodney Taylor as the handsome
foreman; to Henry Gilbert’s ex-
plosive and delightful humanity
as the cuckolded vigneron ; and,
particularly, to Margaret Chris-
tensen’s subtlety and verve in
interpreting the swiftly-changing
emotions of the waitress who
comes up to the vineyard from
’Frisco and finds that the man
she is supposed to marry is old
Tony.
* ❖ ❖
“Orpheus”
Gluck’s music-drama, the
oldest work of its kind to hold
its place on the stage, was an
ideal opera for the Sydney Con.
Opera School to produce, for its
chief characteristic is its sim-
plicity. By its very nature the
action is slow-moving, but this
is more than offset by recitatives
and arias of distinction and by
two beautiful ballets. In his
orchestral writing Gluck was
amazingly modern for his day.
In the final act there are pages
of lilting gaiety which are strik-
ingly Sullivanesque.
The opera has only three
characters, all feminine voices.
By tradition —broken only for
a period when a tenor was given
the role —Orpheus is a contralto.
On Saturday night Patricia
de Burgh sang the part with
nice feeling; her only lapse
had nothing to do with her
voice she forgot to strum
her inseparable lyre in the first
act while singing. The best-
krjown aria in the opera, the
lovely “Che Faro Senza,” she
invested with the right degree of
emotion. Marjorie Conley was
Eurydice, and her soprano, one
of the purest produced in this
State for some years, was used
with the necessary restraint.
Denise Thompson sang the role
of Eros.
In both ballet and chorus,
which have a much more im-
portant place in this opera than
most, Eugene Goossens, who
conducted, was better served
than in previous productions of
the Con. School. Particularly in
the well-staged Hades scene, in
which the red lights glowing on
the restlessly writhing figures of
damned and demons gave an
excellent effect, the chorus had
good tone and plenty of weight,
whilst the two big ballets were
danced with refinement and
spirit. William Constable’s
decor captured the spirit of the
opera, and found its best expres-
sion in the Elysian Fields scene.
Mina Shelley produced.
*X* ♦♦♦
“The Eagle Has Two Heads”
Jean Cocteau’s play about the
queen who hides her potential
assassinator in her bedroom be-
cause a revolutionary poem he
has written has intrigued her
wasn’t made very convincing in
its first Melbourne presentation
at the Princess, and Tana
Eyvans’ production and the Aus-
tralian Repertory Players’ per-
formance didn’t make it any
clearer at the Union Theatre.
As the queen Miss Eyvans
had apportioned to her in the
first act the longest monologue
in dramatic literature —it lasts at
least half an hour, beating the
Grand Inquisitor’s in Shaw’s
“Saint Joan” by several minutes
—but the content of the queen’s
speech is so slight that it could
be adequately given in a dozen
words ; and even if Miss Eyvans
had been a ten-times-better
actress it is doubtful if she would
have put it over. There was
much more feeling in Geoffrey
Stevens’s long silence as the poet.
Baron Foehn, who is supposed
to be the suave personification
of evil, was well done by Zane
Anthony, but all the acting in
the world could not conceal that
the baron is our old friend the
villain of bellowdrama.
•)£ +J+
“Travellers’ Joy”
The best comedy presentation
by a repertory company in Bris-
bane for the year was Alex
Foster’s production of “Travel-
lers’ Joy” for the Brisbane
Repertory Theatre. The set, a
sitting-room of a suite in a
fashionable Swedish hotel,
mocked with its opulence the
financial worries of the central
characters, a group of wealthy
English rendered poverty-
stricken in a foreign country be-
cause of British restrictions on
travelling expenses. Babette
Stephens, Betty Ross and
Mervyn Eadie have never
appeared to better advantage
than under the quick-fire direc-
tion which raised the frothy
comedy to first-rate theatre;
and every minor character
seemed swept up into its central
spirit of gaiety,
❖ ❖ ❖
The Sydney Repertory
Society’s production of Noel
Coward’s “Fallen Angels” at the
2KY Auditorium was only saved
from complete failure by the
gallant efforts of Patti Asange
and Julia Stafford in the roles
of the two discontented wives.
Artbursts
Sali Herman
Sali Herman’s slums, so dismal
a few years ago when he first
began to paint them, have
brightened so much in his current
show at Sydney Macquarie Gal-
leries that, with the magnificent
inconsistency of which only
critics are capable, one almost
longs for a return to the dark
days of old. Whatever feeling
for humanity there may have
been before is here lost in an
amiable grin. The humor of
sloppy figures at the windows
and ill-drawn cats and dogs in
the street is of the popular-maga-
zine-cover variety, with less real
feeling than there is in Mercier’s
slum-cartoons, and the tinsel
colors of doors and balconies
give the paintings only the super-
ficial brightness of stage-sets for
comedy. A comparison of the
mastery of oil-technique and
depth of Australian feeling in
Tom Roberts’s masterpiece of a
shearing-shed at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery with Mr. Her-
man’s slight and fuzzy treatment
of the same subject would make
the shallowness of this approach
to art devastatingly apparent;
but that is not to say that in both
the slum-scenes and country
landscapes there is not often to
be found a light and decorative
charm.
Talkies
“Unwanted Women”
This Italian film at the Aus-
tralia, Melbourne, is a docu-
mentary on a theme so horrify-
ing and at the same time so
remote from the experience of
the ordinary person that one
knows it but can’t feel it.
Yugoslav, Albanian, English,
German, Polish and women of
almost every other nationality
you can think of have been
swept up by the Italian authori-
ties and put in a concentration
camp in war-time not because
they are bad but because they
are undocumented. Their in-
carceration spreads over into
peace-time. Nobody knows
what to do with them, and in
most cases their own countries
wouldn’t have them ; so they are
herded together with nothing to
hope for.
Their guards, except a few
natural sadists, aren’t unkindly,
but can do nothing except turn
the fire-hoses on them when they
become refractory. A Yugoslav
woman is going to have a baby,
becomes obsessed with desire of
freedom for the infant and
makes a desperate endeavor to
obtain it which only produces
chaos. She has the baby and
dies in the process; and the
infant is about to be sent off to
an orphanage when a guard
admits to fatherhood. The gates
open to let out the lucky baby
and close again on the rest of
the women tied up in a regula-
tion.
“Valley of Eagles”
c . , ,
Chasing his fugitive laboratory
assistant, who has decamped
with irreplaceable secret-weapon-
apparatus and his wife, into the
snow at the top of the world,
John McCallum, the young
Swedish scientist, aided by
Swedish detective Jack Warner,
takes up with a party of Lap-
landers herding reindeer to-
wards the frontier. The party is
beset by wolves, and very near
the end of its tether, when a
posse of Father Christmases
riding reindeer unloose trained
eagles on to the wolves—a sight
to see. Decamping assistant and
wicked wife are caught-up with,
but they escape towards the
awful avalanche that tops the
village of the eagle-fanciers;
but in the end all turns out well
for McCallum and the little
Lap girl (Nadia Gray), who
thinks he is nice, so that one
can envision his Lap sitting upon
Mr. McCallum. (Sydney Vic-
tory.)
* *** ***
“Death of a Salesman”
■ , . ~ , ,
Frednc March, as the old
commercial-traveller who has
imbued his family with the idea
that knowing people and putting
on a good front will replace
knowledge and hard work, has
come to the end of his ability
to sell, and is sacked. His older
son, who surprised him with a
womhn in a hotel many years
before, lost confidence, and be-
came a wastrel, has come home.
The old man has taken refuge
from reality by talking loudly
to himself about the past. In
pity for him, the son promises
to get a town job, but fails. He
points out that the father has
been chasing a dream of success
all his life.
The father takes his last oppor-
tunity of making money; he
kills himself to realise on his
accident-policy so that his recon-
ciled boy will have something to
start afresh with ; and the piece
ends at his grave with his best
friend pointing out that such a
life is the lot of the salesman,
March gives a painfully-accurate
performance; words and phrases
burn like red-hot iron, and poses
remind you of people—in this
astonishing way does Hollywood
occasionally shoot off its face,
with its most powerful weapon: (
, he lus( for gl f mor and the trust |
j appearances, (Sydney Esquire). l
$ *x* ❖
_ „
It Grows On Trees
This delightful fantasy deals
with a housewife who makes the
discovery that the two shrubs she
planted in her garden bear
strangely beautiful blooms, the
beauty being disclosed only
when the petals open and, in the
one shrub five-dollar notes, and
j n the other 10-dollar notes, fall
out. And they keep on doing it.
The complications which her sur-
reptitious garnering of this crop
has on her family, Washington—
from whom she had received a
solemnly-worded reply to her
letter assuring her (thinking she
wa s just another harmless crack-
pot) that such bills would be
genuine currency—and a snoop-
ing, borrowing neighbor are
played for ail they are worth,
The typical Press ballyhoo which
breaks when the circulated cur-
rency gets full-blown and starts
to crumble with the Internal
Revenue and Treasury boys get-
bng - n a stew over threat to
j be eco nomy, makes good fun,
j n wb i cb i rene Dunne is serenely
irresponsib i e an d her husband,
pj ean j a ggers, suitably harassed.
domestic scenes are done
with adm irable fidelity. At
Sydney state,
* * ♦♦♦
.
Brigand
a cloak-and-dagger opus,
plastered with the most lurid
technicolor and set in the
Napoleonic era, with a dashing,
handsome brigand (Anthony
Dexter) doubling for the gay
young monarch of a comic-
opera kingdom while that un-
worthy is recovering from an
assassination attempt by a
rascally cousin who covets his
crown. The two high ladies of
the Court, one the king’s mistress
and the other (Jody Lawrance)
the visiting princess whom he
must wed for reasons of State,
nobly refrain from chewing
gum throughout the proceedings
but in all other respects are as
ahbviously Amurrican as a mint-
julep or a juke-box. At Sydney
Lyceum.


Pity Reguited
By MACNELL
I SWEAR I was thinking of
none other than Bull Bryson
a minute before he marched
into my city office, a huge
browned hand preceding him
like a ram, a warming, ear-
bounded grin on his weathered
dial. Just as I swear he felt a
pang of pity as the chair creaked
under his uniformed bulk and
he looked round the small room,
its only saltwater evidence a
picture of my last ship.
My hand tingling from his
grip, I asked, conventionally,
under the pleasure of seeing
him: “Well, Bull, how’s tricks?”
He looked up sideways,
quickly, a habit I remembered
seeing a hundred times when he
was examining aspirants for a
higher gunnery-rate. “Never
better, Geoff. Never better.
HowTe things with you ?”
“Don’t be so damned sympa-
thetic,” I laughed. “I only
started to really live when you
relieved me on that battle-wagon
of yours. How’s she going?
Good ship?”
Bull pulled out the makings,
slowly, staring at the floor as he
leaned sideways to clear his
pocket. I had to smile at the
makings:—Bull, like me, had
come into the wardroom through
the hawse-pipe. Unlike me, he
had the moral courage to retain
some of his personal likes in the
higher social strata he now
moved among. He rubbed the
brown strands thoughtfully.
“Well, yes, I suppose she’s a
good ship.” He looked up. “For
a gunner, it couldn’t be better.”
His eyes dropped to the opera-
tion in hand. “But I wouldn’t
say the first-lieutenant thinks
she’s a good ship.”
I waited. He lit up, looked at
a couple of matches on the
floor, and carefully dropped his
match in the ashtray. I grinned.
“Y’know, Bull —the only way
you’ll ever leave the Navy is on
a gun-carriage. And then you’ll
sit up and blow hell out of the
funeral-party.”
His answer was to look round
the room again, at the filing-
cabinets chock-a-block with
insurance files, and, through the
glass partition, at a couple of
young sprockets mighty
interested in my salty visitor.
“M’m. Has its compensations,
I suppose.”
I felt vaguely irritated.
Trouble with these damn Navy
types —any life outside the grey-
painted walls of their ships was
no life at all, just an existence;
and you couldn’t possibly be
better off outside than inside.
The feeling vanished as he looked
up quizzically and grinned. That
grin got right inside you.
“You couldn’t pop out for a
minute? I feel like a jug.”
I reached for my coat. “That
can be arranged. I’m not the
blasted office-boy altogether.”
There was no reason to speak
to Miss Owens as I passed her
little desk just outside my door.
Miss Owens knew it —as she
understood why I did it. “Back
in an hour, sir? Very well, sir.
I shall take any messages for
you.”
I saw the look of surprise on
Bull’s brown face.
“Secretary, eh?” he murmured
as we threaded through the
clacking desks. “How we
doing!”
FIVE minutes later we
breasted the bar. I caught
his eye over the glass rims. Bull
smiled as he set his down.
“Ah! Long time since we’ve
done that together, eh?”
“I don’t think we’d better go
into the last time I saw you on
the receiving end of a noggin.”
I waited while he slid a coin
across the bar. “You were say-
ing—about the ship?”
Bull had both hands on the
bar, his arms outstretched, star-
ing at the bottles. He turned his
head, quickly, and said abruptly:
“Geoff —she’s a fair .”
He sipped at the fresh glass,
and looked at me. “I came in to
see you—well, I wanted to see
your ugly dial; but I wanted to
get it off my chest. To one of
my own kind.” He slowly
rotated the base of his glass in a
wet circle on the bar, gathering
his thoughts. I waited, thinking
that it must be something to
make Bull Bryson, a loyal, hard-
working, conscientious com-
missioned-gunner, run his ship
down, even to me, who had held
the same rank.
Then he started to talk;
quietly and dispassionately. It
was a slack period in the bar.
Dimly from outside came the
murmur of Sydney’s George-
street traffic. Bull’s words
opened out the confining walls,
on to a royal-blue sea, with the
frigate ploughing a vanishing
wake over a sea wrinkled like a
prune under the gentle suasion of
the south-east trades. It was
mostly like that round the Kiri-
winas, in the Solomons —mostly.
Everything was o.k.
after you left. Bull started.
Until the Old Man was trans-
ferred down south —something
to do with ballistics at Navy
office. In his place we got a
bloke who’d been in big ships
all his time. Funny bird—never
seen him smile, even when I met
him.
It might have been his big-ship
time, or the fact that the first-
lieutenant balled-up hoisting the
seaboat one afternoon. Anyway,
you could see from Jimmy’s face
he didn’t like the way the Old
Man dressed him down on the
bridge. That was definitely the
skipper’s fault. The signalman
and bosun’s mate were listening,
their eyes sticking out like
organ-stops.
Naturally, the skipper was a
bit off-course, in a new ship.
But I’ve seen plenty of other
cruiser-to-frigate boys who’ve
felt their way without letting the
whole bridge see it. After that,
by the time we made Moresby,
things seemed to have simmered
down. But the bridge, when the
Old Man was up there, was
respectful, dignified. Not the
easy familiarity of old times, with
the skipper and Jimmy go-ashore
oppos.
Then it broke out again in
Moresby. Jimmy had done all
the arranging to get the Adminis-
trator aboard, and most of the
entertaining when he lobbed.
He’s a first-rate mess-president,
and the big boss from ashore
enjoyed himself. Of course, he
returned the compliment, and the
mess was invited to a cocktail
do next day.
Jimmy had been keeping
harbor-watches with the rest of
us—though, of course, being
second-in-command, he didn’t
have to ; and it was decent of
him to help out —and on the
day of the party he happened to
be the duty-officer. Just before
lunch, when the Old Man usually
strolls in for his constitutional,
Jimmy was in the mess. He was
asking the sub-lieutenant to look-
out for him so he could attend
the party —which the sub. was
willing to do—when the Old
Man stepped in. He heard.
He let Jimmy finish, then
asked, in that polite, frigid, big-
ship tone: “First-lieutenant, you
arranged for yourself to be
included on the watch-keeping
list of duty officers?”
Jimmy swung round, sur-
prised. “Yes, sir.”
The Old Man leaned sideways
and pressed the buzzer for the
drink steward. “Then I see no
reason why you should delegate
your duty to the sub.”
He didn’t wait for an answer,
just eased himself down on to
the settee, crossed his skinny legs
neatly and picked up a magazine.
Just as well for Jimmy that the
steward, crossing to the Old
Man, hid his face from him.
I’d never seen his dial that way
—you could hear him breathing,
and see the muscles ridged along
his jaw. He started to speak,
shut his mouth like a trap and
stalked out.
I was all Jimmy’s way. The
Old Man, in a not very gentle
nudge, was implying that Jimmy
was trying to get out of his duty-
night, and using his authority
over the sub. to do it. The sub.,
being a sub., had to stay in the
mess. I didn’t, I finished my
beer and left for my cabin. Pass-
ing Jimmy’s door I saw him sit-
ting at his desk, his hands
clenched in his hair, brooding. I
stepped in.
T IMMY looked up. “Oh,
hello. Guns. Take a pew.”
I squatted on his bunk —you
know the elaborate entertaining
facilities in her Majesty’s frigates
—and accepted a fag. Jimmy
said: “Glad to see you put the
boys through some four-inch
drill today. Keeps the gun-grease
moving, if nothing else.”
He’s like that. Another bloke
would have started in right away
with his whinge on the Old Man.
But, as you know, the gunner,
hailing from the lower-deck, has
certain advantages over a
college-trained officer. They feel
they can talk to him freely.
Jimmy wouldn’t dream of dis-
cussing a superior officer with
the sub., for instance. But the
gunner . . ,
He must have read the
sympathy in my face. He smiled
a bit and leaned back in his
chair. “Well, you heard. What
the devil’s wrong with the coot?
What’s he ganging-up on me
for? The ship’s running all
right—all hands doing their
jobs.”
I tell you, I was puzzled, too.
That affair of the seaboat was
trifling, not enough to keep bad
feeling alive between the skipper
and his second-dicky. I said so,
Jimmy looked at me keenly—•
you remember that look.
Searches right through you.
“I see you don’t know the
score, Guns. But then —how
could you?” He reached back
and drew the curtains. “It’s not
only the seaboat. Haven’t you
noticed that he’s
on the bridge
every time you
come up to re-
lieve me? Night
and day?”
I admitted, now
I came to think
of it, I had.
“For damned
near my whole
watch he parks
uo there. Makes
no difference if the nearest dirt
is a hundred miles off. And you
know what it makes me feel
like?” Jimmy crushed his fag
savagely in the ashtray. “I feel
like a bloody ordinary-seaman —
constantly supervised. The
bridge crew must feel the same.
That’s what really gets me! A
man can almost hear them think-
ing—‘Must be only one reason
why the captain stays up here
with Jimmy on watch —because
he don’t trust him to run the
ship.’ Wouldn’t you feel the
same?”
I nodded. I had no idea that
that was going on. So far as I
knew, the captain never bothered
the sub. on watch, and I knew he
didn’t me. But why in hell why?
“You tell me,” Jimmy said,
“and well both know. I tell
you, Guns, this business in the
mess is just about the last straw.
I’ve had it!”
I could see he was serious.
“Take it easy,” I said. “You’ve
got a hell of a lot to lose.” A
thoughf hit me. “Here, how’s
this? The old boy knows he’s
shaky on handling the ship. He
resents your know-how in that
line. So he’s on the watch to
pick up any mistakes you make.”
Jimmy looked at me incredu-
lously. “Of course we know he’s
shaky—he was only a lieutenant-
commander in the cruiser, and
never handled her coming along-
side. Anybody would be shaky
—for the first month or so. We
all know that.”
I pressed the point. “But
maybe he’s not big enough to
take it —the fact that everybody
knows.”
Jimmy looked at me and
grinned, a tired sort of smile.
“Well, Guns, if you’re right—
and I don’t say you are—what a
bloody man to have for a
skipper! ”
WELL, Jimmy didn’t go to
the cocktail-party. But I
did. The Administrator met us
all as we trooped in across the
veranda. He shook hands, then
looked us over, smiling at the
Old Man.
“I don’t see the first-lieutenant,
commander. Is he coming on
later? Ship’s work?”
The captain didn’t turn a hair.
He said, briefly: “No, sir, the
first-lieutenant sends his regrets.
He is duty on board tonight.”
“Oh,” said the big boy. That’s
all. But you could see he was
surprised, for a moment. Not so
much at Jimmy’s not showing
on the target, but that he
couldn’t wangle it to be there.
Then the Old Man started talk-
ing about the fuzzy-wuzzy
guard he’d seen parading —he’s
smooth, all right, when he wants
to be—and it passed off.
That was all right, but next
day, with the sun over the yard-
arm, we’d gathered for medicine
in the mess, when the signalman
walked in. He handed Jimmy a
signal. Jimmy read it, expres-
sionless, and went to put it in
his pocket.
The Old Man, watching, at
once asked “What’s that about?”
I’ll say this for Jimmy—there
was as much malice on his face
as there was love for the skipper
in his heart. He answered
quietly. “A message from the
Administrator, sir. He wants me
to dine with him tonight.”
Well . . . The proverbial pin
would have sounded like full
broadsides. The engineer hadn't
heard the previous day’s
exchange, and burst out, looking
at the faces round him: “What’s
up with you birds? Anyone’d
think your mother-in-law had
conked, James. Half your luck.
I hear he puts on a slashing feed
up there. Not to mention his
secretary! ”
I laughed, not very convinc-
ingly, and tried to help out. “All
you black-gangers ever think of
—your stomach and”
The Old Man pressed the
buzzer. “Serve lunch, Tomkins,”
he ordered the steward.
I think it was that incident
that really fixed it. But for it —
with the Old Man knowing that
we knew what was behind that
solitary invitation the feud
would have just gone on, sub-
surface. There are plenty of
them. But discipline would have
prevented an open break —added
to Jimmy’s healthy respect for
the Old Man’s rings, and for his
own. They would have just dis-
liked each other ; and kept it to
themselves, for the sake of the
ship and living conditions. Per-
haps, when the skipper learnt to
handle her properly, he might
have sweetened-up.
But that signal seemed to wash
away all reserve in the Old Man.
It —hold on, I’m dry. Never
talked so much in all my natural.
And it’s your shout, Geoff.
That’s better.
WE headed south-east from
Moresby, aiming for
Jomard Passage, where the Jap
invasion force headed for
Moresby slipped through while
the Yanks were mixed up in the
Coral Sea shindy. We’d been
turned north several hours for
Bougainville when the wireless-
office voice-pipe buzzed in my
ear.
“Urgent signal, sir,” came up
the spout.
He read it out. I called the
skipper down his voice-pipe, and
re-read the message while I
waited. Seemed a big tanker
had tried to climb over that reef
that runs from the east point on
Kiriwina. Said a current had
set her down on it just before
dawn. She had several bad holes
in the fore-peak, and the sea,
behing her stern, was doing its
best to make ’em bigger.
The Old Man caught me
watching him reading the signal,
watching his jaw working. His
lips were shut tight, now and
again quivering. It wasn’t nice to
see. He was scared stiff. Even
before he saw what he had to
do. One of those psychiatrist
birds would probably have said
he wasn’t really scared, just
scared of thinking about his own
inefficiency in handling her.
And he’d sure need to handle
her gently in this, I don’t
know . • • Anyway, when he saw
(Continued on page 22)
The Waiter and the
Cuckoo
Now each bush becomes a bar-
maid,
Mild then bitter blows the wind.
Cats are a saloon for kittens
And the waiter’s girl is laid
Like a picnic in the shade.
Lambs walk in their mothers’
shadow,
Make a springboard of the hill,
Stand upon the waiter’s coat-tail
While his lady whispers “No!
I will love you if you do.”
What’s the pallid cuckoo cook-
ing?
Laying stars in summer’s well.
Come, my poppet, no one’s look-
ing
And the cuckoo will not tell.
Whose note is silence in a shell.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


AUSTRALIA’S NORTHERN GATEWAY TO THE WORLD
Australia's future is essentially linked with her Northern development in the great hinterland from
Darwin to Alice Springs.
With New Guinea and Darwin as our logical gateways, by sea and air. to the world of the
North, we must fully develop the territories in the North IN THE VERY NEAR
FUTURE.
★ The Hastings Deering Cattle Property near Alice
Springs in Central Australia is 2.600 square miles
in area, which is more than a road one mile
wide across Australia from Sydney to Perth.
No. 4 on the map opposite is The
Hastings Deering Establishment
at Lae in New Guinea: "I
believe in NATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT going
hand in hand with
NATIONAL
DEFENCE."
-H.HD.
y f \ ''<■ <
Safe y.' ■• $ ■•
a
M
ill
; M
m
MU
if
;• ■■
w
Sis;
«s»£
; 4 <'/ ' /*■?■/ ' r '
IHiliiiii
SBSissgj Ps&iii
\ 1
• ; 88
. .
, ‘
■
■ W
W§MM *';
iii Sill
r.,.^ NVS.<.
iiiiiili
11
■ .... •■,•
**
*• 3 iw
%Sx> v;
At
HI
&»
US
WU
:
’
cp;*
.■■■': X
W
...
I
x;;
W&mmm
m
■f
: '■.'. ■:
frX-Xvgy.'vv
5
m
■/wAy /XaSa®;
■
m
VW
V V-
Oh/
sa
-:■ :: :• ‘V
r
i ‘
SSSSif
tmmm
M s ■
1
m
SPUMES’
;-; : ;-;:-x
"x : : : x 1.-:.:. ■
S 5
_
v- -
W -
V
U.D
|||||& J ->
“BEEF ROADS” • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS DEERINC
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS PEERING {NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED. Alice Springs and Darwin. N.T.
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED. Alice Springs. Northern Territory.
ti Lae, New Guinea.
Head Office: William Street, Sydney. M 0412 133 lines).
n/e teec&
"Seven Pillars of Wisdom ‘
1. TRANSPORT
2. COAL
3. FOOD
4. WATER
5. ROADS
6. STEEL
7. DEFENCE


Why ifs better to insist on
i
; :
'
GENUINE SPARE PARTS
for your British Car
DISTRIBUTOR
COVERS
IGNITION COILS
Q
CONTACT SETS
t origin' origitial
* • *Latuifa ctuieS a ignition
UK** ““Siting ,*f Jf So.
starting. B oUBb always
e Tb“S * od eco “°T* 8 “* 4e
teliabiliy lace ment P ke ts.
Only in * 8 be gnaton' 8 ' 4,
to ' , 6 months:
la-O^^iononi,^
Von 8“
Lucas S«' 8 -
KyaWablc service
«• Ma '„„ garages ana
Ml leading g slt ion ° 8
cenntne Sp
yOU |
parts*
CONDENSERS
BRUSHES
WINDSCREEN
WIPER PARTS
FUSES
ROTOR ARMS
m§m
BATTERIES
Available from all
leading garages
and service stations
or apply to. . .
Made in Australia’s most modern
battery factory. Recommended
for all cars & trucks.
Insured Life
BRlSBANE —Elphinstones Ltd., Ann St. • SYDNEY —Bennett and Wood Pty. Ltd.,
13-23 Wentworth Av. • MELBOURNE —Starting Lighting Ignition Pty. Ltd., 68-78
Sturt St., Sth. Melbourne • ADELAIDE —Hannan Bros. Ltd., 63 Franklin St,
PERTH— Joseph Lucas ( Aust .) Pty. Ltd., 627-639 Wellington St.
HOBART—W. A. Richards. 56 Collins St.
LAUNCESTON — H. C. Thompson and Co., 97 Charles St.
*"*iJOSEPH LUCAS (AUST.) PTY. LTD mmmmmmmmm—mmmm—m
Now in Book Form
Illustrated by Norman
Lindsay with over 40
superb pen drawings
Obtainable at bookshops, oi
at “The Bulletin" offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or
Sydney. Or post-free from
The Book Department
“The Bulletin”
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
7/6
"The Letters
Hennmg
me staring, he snapped:
“Increase to 18 knots. Send for
the first-lieutenant!”
I gave the order—that was
just about flat-out for old Fanny,
as you “'know—and sent the
bosun’s mate off for Jimmy. He
must have told Jimmy what was
up. Jimmy leapt on to the bridge
with a happy grin all over his
dial—he’d pass in doing an hour
on report-making for 24 hours
of seamanship—and saluted the
Old Man cheerfully.
“Believe we’ve got a little job
on, sir?”
That fixed it. Like slapping a
condemned man happily on the
back. The Old Man snarled —
he couldn’t keep it in—and
moved to the fore windbreak. I
saw the grin fade from Jimmy’s
face like a searchlight turned off
—it got dull slowly. He fol-
lowed him and asked quietly
“You sent for me, sir?”
The skipper stayed staring out
over the fo’c’sle. “I did. Get
the ship ready for towing aft.
And I want up slip-ups. I’ll be
down to inspect it.”
Jimmy saluted and stepped
back. He punched me in the hip
as he passed. I saw the grin was
back. I stepped up behind the
binnacle to check the course,
and staged at the Old Man’s bald
head. “I’ll be down to inspect
it!” He wouldn’t know what to
look for. A good able-seaman
could tell you a cruiser’s towing
layout aft —but old Fanny’s wires
ran in all sorts of directions.
Over the after gun, round the . . .
but I’m telling you !
T O make a short story long—
we came up on the cripple
about four in the afternoon.
Plenty of time to get wires
aboard and have a tug. Anyway,
with the 18in. light we could
pull all bloody night if we
wanted to. The sea was up a bit,
too. Nothing to worry us—
ten miles off-shore. But I could
see that we’d have to swing in
mighty close to her stern to get
a line aboard. And I could also
see the sea striking against the
coral, then running back, expos-
ing the black teeth that were
sunk in the tanker’s gizzard.
The Old Man glared when he
heard me ask the echo-sounder
for a depth. But I didn’t care.
What was wrong with the silly
newt? Seemed everything the
officer-of-the-watch did, that he
didn’t think of himself, was a
personal insult aimed at him.
I gulped a bit at what came
back. “No bottom at 200
fathoms.” That tanker’s tail was
hanging over a grave. Now and
again, as we eased closer, you
could hear her grinding. If she
broke her back . . .
Thanks. Dunno what you
Sydney birds groan over the beer
position for . . .
Then the Old Man came up
beside me and took her over.
I’ll say this for him —he was
calm, outside. Not that he
needn’t be. All he had to do
was to swing her in—pretty close.
I’ll admit—and the gunner’s
mate could fire the line across.
Then I remembered that the only
time he’d handled her was leav-
ing Brisbane, and coming along-
side in Moresby. For a second
I felt sorry for him —pay and
privileges regardless. Then it
happened.
I wanted to shout. But I’m
only the gunner. I could see
he’d left his course-alteration
too late. And he wasn’t using
enough wheel to get her round.
The bow started to swing. She
had wind and waves against her.
I saw her stern rearing over us
—she was up on the reef, mind
you. The Old Man was scream-
ing: “Hard a starb’d ! Get it on,
man I ” Then we clouted her.
Abreast the quarter-deck. I
stared aft. Jimmy, gunner’s mate
and all the to wing-party were
sprawled head-over-Charlie on
the quarter-deck. She scraped
about 30ft. of her tail along the
tanker, squealing like a stuck pig.
That wasn’t the worst of it.
As she ground clear of the
tanker her stern swung in
towards the reef. God! I can
see those teeth waiting now.
Slimy black, they were. Would
have ripped her guts out. We
were doing about eight knots,
to keep steerage-way on. The
Old Man was running back and
forwards across the bridge—
very helpful. I remember think-
ing that X can’t sink any lower —
another advantage of being a
gunner—as I gave the order to
the wheelhouse.
He heard the engine-room
telegraphs clang as full-ahead
both went on. He didn’t ques-
tion me, just elbowed me aside
and bawled down: “What are
the engines doing?”
When he heard, he looked up
at me and yelled: “Half-ahead
together!”
But by then she’d kicked her
tail a good 50 yards away from
the reef. We were jake. So was
he now. His voice was icy. “I’ll
thank you to remember you are
the gunner, Mr. Bryson. Get the
first-lieutenant on the bridge.”
Thankfully enough, I sent for
Jimmy. He came up, very
respectful. Which, of course,
knowing the reason of it, made
the Old Man worse. I almost
fell off the grating when I heard
him say: “Why the blazes didn’t
you get the line across?”
Jimmy could only gape. D’you
blame him? The Old Man went
on: “Get back on the quarter-
deck! And this time get that
line over. Or do you want me
to come down and fire the
bloody thing?”
YOU couldn’t answer a man
like that. Jimmy cleared
off. It was then I realised that
the skipper was —y’know—sick.
Anybody could have made a
cock of the run-in. But only a
madman could have blamed
Jimmy for it, flat on his back
as he was. Not being a quack,
I can’t tell you what makes him
that way. Maybe something
back over the years. Repressed
while he had others over him.
Released now that he’s the little
tin-god. Anyway, he hauled
round on the next run-in.
This time, as you’d expect, he
hauled her off too soon, so that
the range was too great for the
line-thrower. Then he started to
back her in, slow astern. Fair
enough, when you think of it in
here. But that reef ! With wind
and sea pushing us in. Thank
God, Chief was in the engine-
room, I thought. But the Old
Man stopped her nicely this
time, our quarter-deck right
under her stern. She was so high
out you could see the water
washing over her screws. I think
it was then I remembered that
in a tanker all the weight of her
boilers and engines are in the
stern.
With the ship stopped, nicely
in position, I craned away from
the wheelhouse voice-pipe and
looked aft to see how Jimmy was
getting on with his wires. I saw
him look up, saw the gunner’s
mate pointing, I think I heard
it then, too, though I can’t be
sure. I was pretty well flum-
moxed by Jimmy’s shout, loud
and urgent. “Go full ahead,
sir! At the rush!”
The Old Man looked at me
and snarled. “Bloody galoot!
Has he passed his tow-wire?
Full ahead —be damned!”
He ran to the bridge-ladder
and shouted aft: “Leave the
wheel orders to me! Have you
got that tow-rope passed yet?”
I suppose it was partly
Jimmy’s fault for not telling the
skipper what he was screaming
about in the first place. Perhaps
he was going to in his next shout
—I saw his mouth open for it.
Then we heard it —one hell of a
groan, as if a giant had got the
tanker in his hands and was
slowly bending her back. Which,
I suppose, is close enough to
what was happening. The groan
rose to a screech. I’ll never
forget it. Then her whole after-
part—mast, funnel and all the
gubbins—started to droop. To-
wards the quarter-deck.
I saw Jimmy and the gunner’s
mate running. Away from close
on 4000 tons of toppling steel.
It leaned on the depth-charge
davits. They bent over and down
like liquorice. All the time there
was that hell of a screech as her
plates ripped. Then the quarter-
deck sank, and the A\m. wire
came up out of the water, taut
as a steel bar. The gunner’s mate
was passing the bollards when it
snapped. Like a whip. The
inboard end caught him round
the legs and bashed him against
the starb’d guard-rails.
I REALISE now the Old Man
* must have passed the order to
the wheelhouse. I didn’t hear
it —then. But we were going
ahead, slowly. The stern was
almost under with the weight.
Then we were clear. Old Fanny
jumped like a stung horse as she
lost the weight.
Five seconds later the whole
stern of the tanker wrenched off
and dropped with a hell of a
splash. Her funnel just missed
us as it went down. I stared at
what was left. Like looking into
a man’s belly. All bent pipes
Then a bulkhead to one of the
oil-tanks burst. The black stuff
poured out like a young
Niagara.
Jimmy came on to the bridge.
I think he was as scared as the
Old Man. Just as well for him.
You don’t worry much about
gold braid in moments like
these. By the time they’d got
over their fright they were both
more-or-less normal, so that all
Jimmy said was:
“The gunner’s mate is hurt
badly, sir. Broken leg, by the
look of it.”
The skipper was staring at the
tanker through glasses. Under
them he grunted:
“All right. I’m heading for
Moresby at full speed.”
We sent a signal to the tanker
about her crew. But, of course,
they’d had sense enough to keep
away from her after-part. We
promised to send the first ship
we sighted—there were plenty
about—and tailed it south for
Jomard Passage.
BULL drained his glass.
“Well, that’s about it. One
tanker sunk. One frigate
damaged. One gunner’s mate
wounded. Captain and first-
lieutenant ready for murder.
Makes a nice file, eh? Speaking
of files—l suppose you’d better
get back to yours.”
“That’s not quite it,” I
answered. “What’s happening
now?”
“Court-martial, of course.
Opens tomorrow at Potts Point.
Looks pretty certain the Old
Man will lose his ship. Best
thing that could happen. What
worries me is should I say my
piece about him —being sick?”
“You’ll find it hard to make
that stick. Considering all the
medical knowledge you can own
to. It’ll sound pretty sick itself
in front of that gold braid.”
Bull rubbed his shelf of a chin
with a forefinger, “I guess
you’re right. Just answer the
questions, that’s me. Anyway,
the Jimmy is pretty clear.”
I went back to my files.
Two days later Bull rang.
“Thought you might like to
know what happened.”
I already knew from the
papers.
“Didn’t last long. Old Man’s
been put into a shore base. And
what d’you know? It’s only a
buzz —I wasn’t in there when it
happened; court was cleared —
but I hear that the board recom-
mended medical treatment.
Seems that brass knew a bit
more than seamanship. The
Old Man was edgy as hell in
front of ’em.”
I saw Miss Owens hovering
outside the door. She smiled
understands gly when she saw
me on the phone. I grinned into
the mouthpiece.
“So now you’re all happy, eh?
New skipper come aboard yet?”
Bull hesitated a moment.
“Yes,” he said finally. “He’s
aboard. Haven’t quite got the
hang of him yet. But, then—
he’s sure to be a bit wary first
off, eh? Considering the circs.”
“Yes. Well, I’ve got a lot of
filing to do. This afternoon?
O.K. See you after five. So
long.”
I hung up, and Miss Owens
walked in, smiling. She laid a
sheaf of reports on my table. “I
was so glad you met one of your
old shipmates again. It must be
wonderful for you to yarn over
old times.”
I looked up at her. “Miss
Owens,” I said, “It’s lovely and
cosy in this little shore-bound
office.”
Miss Owens smiled, the under-
standing smile she always smiles.
But this time, for once. Miss
Owens, you haven’t a clue as to
what I mean.


W-
iiiiiii
There’s Only
ONE
DAVEY!
HEARD IN
GREAT WEEKLY RADIO SHOWS AT 8 D.m.
★ Mondays — "GIVE IT A GO" presented by the makers
of Persil.
it Tuesdays— "ASK ME ANOTHER" presented by the
makers of Eno’s and Brylcreem.
it Wednesdays —"THE DULUX SHOW presented by the
makers of Dulux Paints.
it Fridays — THE AMPOL SHOW—“Number Please”
presented by Ampol Petroleum Ltd.
Produced by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service
2GB • 3AW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 2PK 2MW 2LT 2MG 2LF 3CV 4BU 4GY 6WB 6MD 7LA
and many other commercial broadcasting stations throughout Australia
THE DISPLACED PERSON
by E.O.SCHLUNKE
IF there is a reason why so
many schoolteachers, especi-
ally after they get into the
forties, wear a stern and dis-
approving frown when they go
among their fellow-men, it is
probably that, working in a
world perfectly ordered and
regulated, where every plus has
its minus and every pro its con,
they find much to condemn
among the ordinary people, par-
ticularly in country towns, who
lead such haphazard and dis-
orderly lives.
Normally they don’t attempt
to set the place in order, but,
given the occasion and the
opportunity, they betray them-
selves. Such a teacher, for
instance, recovering from
anaesthesia, and annoyed by the
repeated bellringing of the other
patient in his ward, would be
practically certain to say some-
thing like this:
“Why couldn’t you ask the
nurse when she was in here a
minute ago? Save her legs and
my nerves.”
That’s the kind of man Mr.
Georgeson was languages
teacher at the High School, a
bachelor of meticulous habits
of 45 years’ standing, and proud
of it.
The nurse came in while he
was saying it, and, deciding that
he was suffering great pain, gave
him an injection of pethydine
before turning somewhat
impatiently to the other man.
She didn’t know much about
teachers.
The teacher floated off bliss-
fully, secure from ordinary
people.
Voices and the rattle of tea-
cups called him back after an
unknown interval; the smug
voice of the man in the other
bed, and the odd, deep, uncertain
voice of the Lithuanian D.P.
ward-maid.
“Reckon it’s a good day for
the Flemington meets.”
“Good? —day?”—the maid’s
voice in painful uncertainty,
clutching at the only words she
understood.
“Yes, horse-races, gee-gees,
mokes, you know,”
The maid gave a despairing
“Oh!” and retreated.
The man muttered something
in disappointed tones.
Something about the voice
was familiar.
Georgeson opened his eyes.
That soft boy’s face, handsome
in its regularity of features, the
mouth rather like a spoilt
youngster’s, and a chin with a
certain amount of stubbornness.
Hair slickly oiled and plastered.
He could smell it now that the
fumes were clearing from his
head. He knew it placed the
man, but then he slithered
deliciously off again . . .
“A customer, Wally! Hey,
Wally, a customer!” in several
loud voices.
He opened his eyes again, out-
raged at such behavior. No one
but the other patient in the ward,
and he apparently asleep . . .
THE time when, new to the
town, he went into Wayfare’s
barber-shop. Idle and aimless-
looking youths and men sitting
around reading sporting-papers,
one in one of the chairs-of-trade
with his hat on, the other chair
full of racing-papers and form-
guides. Everyone looking up at
his six-feet-one, surprise and
alarm spreading slowly on their
unintelligent faces ; then immense
relief when he said “Are you all
waiting?”
“Hey, Wally, a customer! A
customer, Wally!”
And then from behind a three-
ply partition had reluctantly
come the baby-faced man with
the head that smelled above all
the barber-shop smells, strug-
gling into a white coat. The
man with the hat on got out of
the chair somewhat shame-
facedly, and one by one all the
others shuffled out.
“Be back later, Wally.”
The worst haircut he’d ever
had. He never went back there,
and he knew he wasn’t meant to.
Every time he passed, the same
set of men and the radio blar-
ing with the foolishly excited
voices of racing-announcers . . .
A good night’s sleep and feel-
ing well enough to be propped-
up a little in the morning. The
Lithuanian maid with pad and
pencil, taking orders for lunch,
looking at him with sympathy in
her big,, wide-spaced and slightly-
slanting but decidedly-attractive
eyes.
“You can haf biff tea or bread
and hotter.*’
Anxious eyes watching his
face, hoping he answers in the
words she has used, and not
some incomprehensible circum-
locution, as so many do, thought-
lessly or just stupidly.
“Beef tea, thank you.” He
said the words slowly and dis-
tinctly, as he did when teaching
his classes.
The girl wrote. He could see
her lips moving slightly as if she
were trying to memorise his
pronunciation.
She looked up at him then
gratefully for a moment before
moving to the other bed.
< ‘CT HE had a pretty bad time,
from what I can make
out,” said the Head Sister when
she was washing Georgeson.
“First the Russians came and
occupied their country. They
sent her father and brother away
into Russia before they retreated.
Then the Germans came and
took her and hundreds of
others to work in Germany. She
doesn’t know where any of her
family are now; she thinks they
are probably all dead.”
She talked a bit more about
D.Ps. She was quite an authority
on them, because her brother
was a doctor at a D.P. reception-
camp.
“They’re a queer lot, likely to
go off at any time and commit
suicide for no reason you can
make out. And they’ve got
funny ideas about food, too —
always go for sausages and
rissoles and muck like that,
instead of good plain food.”
And getting back to the ward-
maid, whom they all called
Katrie (a civilised abbreviation
of her first name), and the other
D.P. employed in another part
of the hospital—“l don’t see why
they’ve got to mope about so
much. They’re lucky to be here.
The other girls are good to
them.”
“It’s a pity,” said Wally Way-
fare. “If that girl would only
look cheerful, she’d be a peach.
She’s got a swell figure.”
“You didn’t look very cheerful
yourself when you came in
here,” said the Sister, who never
missed an opening, “and you
only had a bit of gastric trouble.”
“What were you doing, any-
how, while all that was happen-
ing to her?” Georgeson asked.
“Were you called up, or did
you volunteer?”
The Sister laughed rather un-
feelingly, supplying an unmis-
takeable answer to the query.
“He didn’t last long as a soldier,”
she said. “How long was it,
Wally? About three weeks?”
Wally made a grimace, as if
the memory was really too
distasteful. “I couldn’t stand
those heavy boots and all the
bossing about,”
“I suppose you always wear
dancing - pumps?” Georgeson
said, with a veneer of mock
sympathy.
pEORGESON watched the
J nurses and maids going up
and down the corridor, busy but
cheerful, throwing a smile or a
cryptic sentence to each other as
they passed ; and every now and
then the Lithuanian girl, her face
tense and strained, trying to
think of words to say, mortified
because she hadn’t understood
and always silent and dreadfully
alone.
When she came in with his
lunch, he smiled at her and said
in German: “Thank you, Miss.”
She looked at him, bewildered
for a moment at the unexpected-
ness of it—then, very slowly, her
face relaxed into the beginnings
of a smile and she replied in the
same language: “So you can
speak German.”
“Yes, I’m a language teacher.”
“You have a very good
accent.”
“My grandmother was
German, and I often stayed with
her.”
The strain in the girl’s face
relaxed visibly. She said: “That
must have been a long time ago.”
He looked at her, wondering
what she meant. He was sur-
prised to see a gleam, of mischief
in her eye.
“You mean my grammar isn’t
very good?”
“Oh, no,” she said, very
expressively, just as his grand-
mother used to speak; always
saying the German for “little”
in a small voice, and “big” with
enormous, long-drawn vowels,
and shades of inflection in almost
every word according to its
meaning. “You speak just like
a professor,” and as soon as she
saw he was going to take it the
right way, she laughed so merrily
that Georgeson, who seldom
laughed, laughed, too. George-
son turned from following her
to the door to discover Wally
openmouthed.
“My word, she’s a real stunner
when she laughs like that.”
“It’s just a matter of under-
standing and being able to make
herself understood,” Georgeson
explained. “In her own country,
before the war, she was probably
a very lively girl.”
• “By gee, if a bloke could only
talk to her like you can. You
know, I’ve always had a hanker-
ing to have a girl with that sort
of foreign look, like Greta Garbo
or Ingrid Bergman.”
“There’s no reason why you
shouldn’t. I’ll teach you
German. Come on, now; say
‘lch liebe dich’ —that’s ‘I love
you.’ ”
Wally looked confused, but
secretly pleased, too. “Well, I
can hardly start off like that.”
“All right, then say ‘Widen sie
zu kinema mit mir kommen?’
That’s ‘Will you come to the
pictures with me?”’
Wally tried, selfconsciously,
but he couldn’t remember a
word; even when Georgeson
repeated them one at a time he
hadn’t a hope of pronouncing
them. “Oh, cripes,” he said. “It’s
no use. It’s too hard for me.”
Georgeson looked at him in
thoroughly schoolmasterly dis-
gust, and said “Do you know
what a man in this town did for
a girl, a foreign girl, too, he’d
met and fallen in love with when
he was a p.-0.-w.. in Austria?
When he couldn’t get authority
for her to come out here, he just
went back to. Austria and got
her. Spent all his deferred-pay
on it. Officialdom was against
him all the way. No papers, no
passport. How he got her out
of the Russian-occupied zone
without both of them being shot
was a miracle, but that’s the sort
of thing a real man can do.”
“She might soon learn to
speak English properly,” Wally
hoped, quite unmoved.
“Well, she would if you
married her. There couldn’t be
a better way.”
WALLY was a bit taken
aback. “I wasn’t thinking
of that, yet.”
Georgeson said quite indig-
nantly: “It wouldn't be a fair
thing to pay attention to her and
then drop her. She’s had enough
to put up with, poor girl.”
Wally looked as if he agreed
with that bit, but was still per-
turbed about it.
Georgeson thought a while.
Finally he said in a severe and
authoritative manner. “Yes, you
ought to marry her. There
couldn’t be a better way to get
her settled in this country. It
wouldn’t take much to make
her happy after the troubles she’s
been through. You’re about the
same age, and I suppose a girl
would think you’re not bad-look-
ing, even though she’d soon find
out that you’ve got no brains.
You might find things a bit dif-
ficult for a while, but I don’t
see why you shouldn’t make a
sacrifice for once. You’ve been
a parasite all your life.”
“Now, look here —I don’t
want to be rushed into that sort
of thing.”
“I’m not rushing you,”
Georgeson retorted. “A man
whose mind works as slowly as
yours could never be rushed into
anything. I’ll start by showing
you how to become acquainted
with her. The main thing for you
to do is to speak slowly and dis-
tinctly, to use only those words
that you find she knows, and
above all no slang. Now say
this after me, just the way I say
it ... ”
And Wally complied, not only
because he was genuinely inter-
ested in the girl, but because the
only time in his life that he had
been disciplined was at school,
and the memory of that was still
a powerful influence when added
to Georgeson’s authoritative
manner.
The girl had to put up with
it, too. Every time she came into
the ward, Georgeson obliged her
and Wally to have a conversa-
tion. He handled her much
more gently than Wally. He
encouraged her to persevere
when they reached a deadlock,
and instead of retreating in
embarrassment, to make light of
it: “Ah, today my head is lazy,”
became a great joke.
'"THERE are some things which
I can be explained in a
language of which one has an
imperfect knowledge and some
(i Continued on page 30)


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria on 19th December, 1929, under The Companies Act 1928)
Prospectus of an Issue at par (£100) of £1,000,000 3i% First Mortgage Debenture Stock
smrr/SM //wssm/w#
90 CAKSCMi-
Stock redeemable at par • at the latest 10 years from the date of issue • 90 days
frpm the date of issue AD or upon 90 days' notice by the Company or the debenture
holder 9 or on a fixed date, specified in the application or subsequently arranged
by the debenture holder and the Company.
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURES
Application forms endorsed upon a Prospectus dated 24th October, 1952,
may be obtained from any of the Offices of the Company set out here-
under and from Members of Stock Exchanges of Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart. Applications should be accom-
panied by remittance of full amount of Stock applied for. Subscription
lists are now open, and will remain open until the 21st day of April,
1953, subject to the right of the Board of Directors of the Company to
close the issue at an earlier time.
The Directors will proceed to allotment of Debentures as from the
opening date of the issue.
Interest will be computed from the date of allotment.
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS
The Perpetual Executors 6 Trustees Association of Australia Limited,
100-104 Queen Street, Melbourne.
ADVISORY BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
lan Potter & Co., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
DI RECTORS
FREDERIC ERNEST BUNNY, 32 Atkinson Street, Oakleigh, Solicitor
(Chairman).
MAURICE SHMITH, Hotel Windsor, Spring Street, Melbourne, Com-
pany Director (Deputy Chairman).
TIMOTHY GEORGE JONES, “Ripponlea,” Hotham Street, Elstern-
wick, Barrister.
LIONEL NEWTON, Hotel Windsor, Spring Street, Melbourne, Ware-
houseman.
HENRY JAMES LANE, 28 Albany Road, Toorak, Company Director.
WALTER RICHARD GRENVILLE HISCOCK, 18 Haberbrack Av.,
Malvern, Solicitor.
lAN MATHIESON JACOBY, 2 Carrara Road. Vaucluse. N.S.W.,
Managing Director.
SECRETARY
DONALD HUGH ROSS, 60 Collins Place. Melbourne.
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
SOLICITORS
CORR & CORR, 104 Queen Street, Melbourne.
AUDITORS' REPORT
-p, n . . Fleet House,
!nd us tried' Acceptance Corporation Ltd., 6 ° Melbourne 3 Cl.
, 60 “elWnT’ai. A ««•
Dear Sirs,
As Auditors of INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED we report that the net profits of the Company as disclosed
in its Published Accounts in respect of the three years ended 31st
December, 1951, were as set out hereunder:—
Year ended 31st December, 1949 £434,823
Year ended 31st December, 1950 / . £671,661
Year ended 31st December, 1951 £914,414
In arriving at the abovementioned figures no charge has been made
to provide for taxes paid or payable on income earned during that
period, and profits of Subsidiary Companies are only taken into account
to the extent of dividends received from them in each year.
The Paid-up Capital of the Company and the dividends paid on
the shares therein out of profits earned in respect of each of the three
years ended 31st December, 1949; 31st December, 1950, and 31st Decem-
ber, 1951, were as follows:
5% Cumulative Preference Shares— 1949 1950 1951
Paid-up Capital at year end .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
•Dividends . .. 5% 5% 5%
Ordinary Shares—
Paid-up Capital at year end .. £1,000,000 £1,250,000 £1,500,000
Dividends .. .. .. 12*% 12*% 12-11/12%
No Accounts have been prepared for audit since the 31st December,
1951.
This report was prepared for inclusion in a Prospectus for the re-issue
of £1,000,000 3*% Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock bearing
interest at the rate of £3/5/- per centum per annum.
Yours faithfully,
L. B. WALLACE.
R. G. WALLACE.
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
STATUTORY INFORMATION
1. There are no founders, management or deferred shares.
2. The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors, must
be raised by the re-issue of Debenture Stock now offered by this
Prospectus is £1,000,000. This amount is required to be provided in
respect of the following matters: —
(a) To discharge in part debentures and other short-
term liabilities .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
(b) Preliminary expenses Nil
(c) The purchase of any property purchased or to be
purchased which is to be defrayed in whole or in
part out of the proceeds of the Issue .. Nil
Registered Offices:
VIC.: 60 Collins Place. Melbourne.
N.S.W.: 200 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Q'LD.: 104 Adelaide St., Brisbane, and
Branch at 129 Flinders St., Townsville,
(d) The repayment of any moneys borrowed by the
Company in respect of any of the foregoing matters Nil
(e) Working capital . Nil
Save the amount of preliminary expenses of the issue, including under-
writing, commission and brokerage which is estimated at £8,500 and
will be paid out of the income of the Company, no amount is to be
provided for any of the foregoing purposes otherwise than out of the
proceeds of the issue.
3. No shares or debentures have been issued or agreed to be issued
within the two preceding years as fully or partly paid up otherwise
than in cash.
4. The total amount paid within the two preceding years as com-
mission or brokerage for procuring subscriptions for Debentures of the
Company was £26,309, and on the present issue brokerage is payable
at the rate of 7/6 per cent, in the case of stock redeemable up to six
months after issue and 10/- per cent, on stock redeemable after that
time. No amount has been paid within the two preceding years to the
date hereof as commission or brokerage for subscribing or agreeing to
subscribe or procuring or agreeing to procure subscriptions for any
shares. No Director or promotor or expert or proposed Director is
entitled to receive any such commission or brokerage.
5. The date of and parties to any material contract (not being a
contract entered into in the ordinary course of the business carried
on or intended to be carried on by the Company or a contract entered
into more than two years preceding the date of issue of this Prospectus)
and a reasonable time and place at which such material contracts or a
copy thereof may be inspected are as follows:
(a) Agreements dated 13th March, 1951, made between Frederic
Ernest Bunny, Lionel Ballard Wallace and Executors Estate of
Robert Nathan, deceased, respectively, of the first part, the
Company of the second part and Robert Gordon Wallace of
the third part relating to the acquisition of shares.
(b) Agreements dated 14th March, 1951, made between Herbert
William Austin, Byfleet Pty. Ltd., Francie Una Christian,
Stanley James Hannan, Lorna Hannan, Executors Estate W. G.
Hiscoek, Walter Richard Grenville Hiscock, lan Mathieson
Jacoby, Premier Investments Ltd., Timothy George Jones, Louisa
Jones, Henry James Lane, Executors Estate R. T. Lane, Stella
Maud Adeline Lane, Thelma Marie Lane, Executors Estate B.
Nathan, Executors Estate J. Nathan, Lionel Newton, Lauri
Joseph Newton, Shirley Schenken, Annie Elizabeth Shmith,
Maurice Shmith, Margaret Alexandra Troy and Evelyn May
Wallace respectively ,of the first part, the Company of the
second part and Robert Gordon Wallace of the third part,
relating to the acquisition of shares.
[(c) Agreement dated 15th March, 1951, made between Nancye Ford
of the first part, the Company of the second part, and the said
Robert Gordon Wallace of the third part, relating to the
acquisition of shares.
[(d) Three Debentures dated 30th July, 1951, made between the
Company and The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Ltd.
[(e) Supplemental Trust Deed dated 18th April, 1951, made between
the Company and The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Associa-
tion of Australia Ltd.
[(f) An agreement dated 2nd April, 1952, between the Company
and William lan Potter and Henry Arthur Pitt, carrying on
business ap lan Potter & Co., for the underwriting of Debenture
Stock.
There are no other material contracts.
Copies of the abovementioned Agreements may be inspected at the
Offices of the Company set out hereunder.
6. The business of the Company has been carried on for more than
three years.
7. The date of allotment of Debenture Stock subscribed pursuant to
this Prospectus shall not be later than 21st April, 1953.
8. The Auditors of the Company are Lionel Ballard Wallace and Robert
Gordon Wallace (practising as L. B. Wallace & Son), Chartered Accoun-
tants (Aust.), 60 Collins Place, Melbourne; 200 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
9. The Company has established a place of business in New South
Wales at 200 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
This Prospectus is dated the 27th day of October, 1952. A copy of
this Prospectus has been filed with the Registrar-General of the State of
Victoria. A copy has been filed with the Registrar-General of New
South Wales, who, however, takes no responsibility as to its contents.
A copy has also been filed with the Registrar of Companies in Queens-
land, the Registrar of Companies in South Australia, the Registrar of
Companies in Western Australia and the Registrar of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania.
fs
S.A.: 95 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
W.A.: 156 St. George's Terrace, Perth,
TAS.: 61 Liverpool St., Hobart, and
at 36 St. John St., Launceston.
NAT


Give Devil Dandruff
thebrush-off jff
...
IjiCmC
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
mm
■Sp
LHI/121
Sold at all
Chemists & Stores
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing—
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down’’ look!
try Lustre Creme to-day!
—
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
‘'lt’s handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
Preparation
Australian Historical Sketches
Our First Aristocrat
By M. H. ELLIS
ON February 14, 1792,,the
good ship Pitt —which
had arrived the day
before and brought the
final consignments of the New
South Wales Corps in its early
form and its commander, Major
Grose—delivered to Governor
Phillip’s charge the person of
Richard Atkins. And no doubt
Governor Phillip thought him
about as unwelcome a valentine
as he had ever received in his
life.
Mr. Atkins was our first
aristocrat. He was sailing under
a name not his own, which was
Bowyer. He was a descendant
of Queen Elizabeth’s Cecil, and
was therefore related to some of
the most powerful blood in
England. His father was a
baronet. A recent forebear had
been Comptroller of the House-
hold to Queen Anne. His brother
was a distinguished admiral. He
himself had taken the name of a
benefactor, Sir Richard Atkins,
last of a line of baronets begun
in a physician to King James I.
This magnate had left him some-
thing substantial in his will.
Mr. Atkins had been a soldier
of sorts, last heard of in a
military capacity as adjutant to
the militia in the Isle of Man.
He had married a lady named
Brady, who hailed from Dublin,
and had a son who went into the
Army, married a daughter of the
secretary of Nova Scotia Colony
and made his father the ancestor
of a family as distinguished as
his ancestors. As Mr. Atkins’s
ancestor had been Comptroller
of the Household to Queen
Anne, so his descendant, Lord
Denham, became Comptroller of
the Household in the reign of
King George V.
Mr. Atkins himself was the
one weak link in an illustrious
chain. But he was in no way
abashed. He called the grants
of land which he received on the
savage environs of Parramatta,
between Granville and Merry-
lands, Denham Farm, and later
named another grant down the
southern road to Campbelltown
after his ancestral home in
Buckinghamshire, Denham
Court (you see it on the left to-
day, when you have passed
through the military camp, at
the crest of the hill opposite the
church which Charles Sturt used
to attend).
Apart from an annuity set
aside as the income from £2OOO
by his mother, Lady Bowyer, he
seems to have had no means of
his own. But Phillip was
instructed to provide for him and
to give him the reversion of the
office of Judge Advocate should
David Collins become absent.
He promptly appointed him
Registrar of the Court of Vice-
Admiralty, a sinecure if ever
there was one.
Why Mr. Atkins had come to
New South Wales there is no
record. He obviously was
polished and courtly and
accustomed to the highest
stratum of society. He had great
influence, as every Governor
who tried to remove him soon
discovered. And he altogether
was a strange enigma, which be-
comes stranger when we peruse
the curious diary which he has
left, and of which the National
Library in Canberra owns the
original.
This, written in a fist which is
scarcely in keeping with either
its contents or with the writer’s
breeding, begins at the time of
his arrival in N, S. Wales. It is
closely written —advertising the
scarcity of paper in those early
years. It contains a meticulous
account of the wind and weather
on every day in. which there is
an entry. But the mystery about
it is the piety which it exhibits,
the strange old-maid’s-scrap-
book air about it. There are
sermons and philosophical dis-
cussions in it, few of them
original. There are copies of
verses which exhibit a startling
catholicity of taste. There are
Gray’s “Elegy” and a Cam-
bridge undergraduate’s parody
on it. There is an ode to the
jessamine ; there is an ode to a
Bishop of London. There is an
“Epitaph on Miss Campbell who
Excelled in an Eminent Degree
upon the Pedal Harp”:
O pensive passenger do not deny
To pause a while and weep
uj)on this tomb
For here the cold remains of
Campbell lie,
This vernal spot the vernal
maiden’s doom.
His moral reflections are
generally somewhat distraught.
They sound like the outpourings
of a man who has passed
through some crisis, and nearly
always carry some implication
that they are born of regrets for
a misspent 45 years of life or
produced mesmerically by the
normal phenomena of Botany
Bay settlement.
It seems quite natural, for
instance, in a place where necks
were often stretched, that he
should feel a particular interest
in that portion of the human
frame:
The neck it is that expresses, not
what man was originally, but what
he is by habit and by accident he
has become; whether erect in de-
fence of freedom, stretched forth
and curbed in token of patient
suffering, rising a Herculaean pillar
of fortitude, or sinking between the
shoulders, the image of degrada-
tion, still it is incontestably expres-
sive of character, action and birth.
And his whole mourning for
a discreditable past seems to
intrude itself into this passage:
The difference between rising
every morning at six and eight in
the course of 40 years, supposing
a person to go to bed at the same
time he otherwise would, amounts
to 29,200 hours or 3 years 121 days
and 16 hours which will afford
exactly eight hours a day for ex-
actly 10 years, so that it is the same
as if 20 years of life were added,'
in which he may command eight
hours every day for the cultivation
of our [sic] minds and the dispatch
of business.
+ +
He was soon in a poor state
of health—it had “pleased God
Almighty to inflict on me more
sickness in the last three weeks
than I have experienced in the
last 30 years.” This made him
humble.
He could remember the time
when he had repined “because
I had not so handsome a
carriage as Lord A., but now I
am thankful that I have some
comforts which others have not.”
“How time and place alter the
state of things,” he thought, yet
“after all are we not equal, are
we not of common stock?” He
answered “Yes, but a state of
nature requires no subordina-
tion.”
At last he went off to Parra-
matta in May, 1792, to reside
there as civil magistrate, exclaim-
ing: “May God enable me to
do justice and mercy,” and add-
ing: “Went to church, as I
intend to make every person
attend divine service. I think it
necessary to set the example.”
So life went on for him until
Phillip departed and Major
Grose became Lieutenant-
Governor an d, instituting
military rule, deprived him of
his magistrate’s authority. When
Hunter came in September,
1795, he rejoiced that they “at
last had a Governor who made
the good of the community at
large his particular care,
abstracted from all party and
dirty pecuniary views.”
From this point his moralising,
his collection of scrapbook items
becomes more limited. He is
back again in the magistracy,
virtually civil ruler of Parramatta.
But he becomes more ill and
melancholy every day: “The
New Year is commenced. How
short to look back, how long to
look forward. What have I done
praiseworthy in the last year?
Little. Health rather on the
decline Must be very
careful.”
It begins to be all too clear
what lies behind in Mr. Atkins’s
life. He is often in “acute pain,”
but he agrees that “God has been
very good to a miserable sinner.
I bring it on myself often....
May I have the fortitude to
resist all temptation.”
It was most unfortunate that
early in 1796 he chose to declare
war on the New South Wales
Corps, and particularly on
Captain John Macarthur, who,
in an altercation about the
soldiers stealing turnips from
Government House garden,
dared to address him as “Mr.
Richard Atkins” instead of
Richard Atkins Esquire.”
4- +
Mr. Atkins was very wroth
and reported the insult to the
Governor. And Mr. Macarthur,
being gently reproved for hav-
ing intended to wound his
adversary’s feelings “and lessen
him in the eyes of the public as
a magistrate,” replied in charac-
teristic fashion;
Is it possible that the use of a
trifling appellation can produce a
change in the public opinion of a
man so plunged in infamy; or how
can he be imagined to possess one
feeling of a gentleman when the
enormities he is committing daily
are considered?.... Both by oral
and written evidences will I prove
that Mr. Atkins is a public cheater,
living in the most boundless dis-
sipation, without any visible way
of maintaining it than by impos-
ture on unwary strangers whose
business leads them to this settle-
ment.
When Hunter asked for
specific charges he accused the
unfortunate exile of having
drawn a bill of exchange on
agents with whom he had
neither credit nor account; of
being shamefully intoxicated
and exposing himself in the
streets, and of various other
peccadilloes heinous in a magis-
trate.
Mr. Atkins’s defence was
elusive and unconvincing. His
main tactics, as usual, seem to
have been to imbibe large
quantities of good liquor and
then to discharge the verbal
emanations of its influence at
his foes. He was wildly indig-
nant —outraged, in fact —in pub-
lic, but in private he set down
in June, 1796, in the middle of
the horrible quarrel, the follow-
ing pathetic evidence of his
condition:
I was taken so excessively ill
that my life was in the most im-
minent danger. The next day 1
was if possible worse.... This day
I make solemn promise in the pres-
ence of God that I will avoid all
excesses, restrain my temper and
act conformably to the station in
which I am placed. For what do
I get by drinking? I lose the
friendship of my best friends, lose
my health, lose my reputation. I
lose my happiness altogether. This
being known, have I not the right
to act the reverse? There is but
one answer: Yes, and by the bless-
ing of God I will persist in the
resolution I now make.
History laughs as it realises
that at the time of this confusion
all those unco-good foes of
John Macarthur—the Reverend
Samuel Marsden, the pious Dr.
Arndell, “Little Jack” Palmer,
the equally pious commissary,
who had actually been cheated
by Atkins, but whose hatred of
Macarthur and the military
transcended every other con-
sideration —were bearing testi-
mony that Mr. Atkins was a
very paragon of all the virtues,
sober, honest, impeccable and,
above all things, mild, forbear-
ing and prone to turn the other
cheek.
-t- +
To prove it Mr. Atkins got
rolling drunk as a preliminary
to writing Mr. Macarthur a
letter which was obviously
meant to provoke him to a
duel:
On this subject, viper, you bite
a file; the day of retribution will
come, and believe me, it is not far
off, when you will be dragged for-
ward by the strong arm of justice
to public view as a monster of
society, the betrayer of private
conversation, to answer your own
malicious ends, as the assassin of all
that constitutes true honor.. . .You
have passed the Rubicon of dis-
honor .... You are a leper in repu-
tation... .You ought to be driven
from society lest you be infectious
—lyer.... scoundrel.
Macarthur was refused per-
mission by the Governor to sue
for libel. And Atkins was
allowed to continue to act as
Judge Advocate, and, after an
interval, became permanent in
that office, and remained so
despite the protests of Gover-
nor King, who railed against his
dissipation and ignorance, and
Bligh, who early attacked him.
He knew no law. He ad-
mitted it. He compelled King
and Bligh to turn to convicts for
legal advice. Fraud seemed to
be natural to him. Bligh wrote
15 years after the Judge Advo-
cate had first arrived in the
colony that “he has been the
ridicule of the community; sen-
tences of death have been pro-
nounced in moments of intoxica-
tion ; his determination is weak,
his opinion floating and infirm ;
his knowledge of the law insig-
nificant and subservient to pri-
vate inclination; and in confi-
dential cases of the Crown,
where due secrecy is required,
he is not to be trusted.”
The implacable quarrel be-
tween himself and John Mac-
arthur, never entirely dormant
from 1796 to 1808, was as much
responsible for the Rum Rebel-
lion as any other influence, and
we have the last glimpse of him
on the Bench on the “glorious”
day of January 26, 1808.
He is shouting drunkenly that
he will commit Macarthur,-and
Captain Kemp is shouting
heartily: “I will commit you,
sir.” Captain Macarthur, finger-
ing one of Mr. Atkins’s fraudu-
lent bills, on which the interest
has mounted to four times the
capital amount, chuckles in the
dock, knowing that he is wit-
nessing the end of his enemy’s
career.
When Mr. Ellis Bent came
to succeed Mr. Atkins in 1810
he found him in his untidy
dwelling next Government
House —a “perfect pigstye upon
the point of tumbling down,”
decorated with “low and vulgar
caricatures.” He was ill, still
prepossessing in appearance and
engaging and easy in manner
and plainly “in a situation be-
neath him and accustomed to
the polished and higher classes
of life.” Mr. Bent found that
he had travelled a great deal.
His successor knew that he had
been an “inveterate drinker of
spirits, constantly intoxicated
when alone,” though Colonel
Foveaux testified that he had
never seen him drunk in public.
Round the corners as Mr. Bent
conversed with him peered his
gaggle of illegitimate daughters
and" the slattern with whom he
lived.
He went to England with
Bligh in May, 1810, disap-
pointed the prophecies of those
who expected him to perish on
the voyage and died in London
in 1820.


df
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
#■*
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
my perth
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
sd
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
GUARD/
Ca#h/
PROTECTA
stml- SfU RiyuitJ
TILL
'm
Suitable for every type of business II records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.,
PERTH ..Docket Book Co, (Aust),
SPORTING NOTIONS
First staged in 1888, the Wil-
liamstown Cup has been run
over varying distances. Last
spring it was reduced to mile
and won by Shoreham. Latest
winner, Morse Code, who beat
Davey Jones and Quite Talk,
also won the Cup in 1950. He
equalled the performance of
Second Wind, dual Cup winner
in 1930 and 1931.
The wild outburst which fol-
lowed last Saturday’s Williams-
town Cup race seemed a little
surprising, as Morse Code was
sent to the post third favorite at
5 to 1. In racing there will
always be demonstrations. What
begin as one-man shows often
develop into quite noisy affairs.
Should Morse Code win the
Caulfield Eclipse Stakes this
coming Saturday it will be in-
teresting to see the punters’
reactions. At least they won’t be
able to accuse the horse of a
form reversal. As it was, he
just scrambled home in the
Williamstown Cup.
Veteran Melbourne stayer
Hoyle finished last in the
Williamstown Cup, starting at
25 to 1. Rising 11 years, he has
contested 24 Cups, and Satur-
day’s was his fifth shot at the
Williamstown Cup. Hoyle has
wone £19,500 in stakes and has
covered more than 160 miles in
races. He won the 1949 Moonee
Valley Cup and has been placed
in the Melbourne, Adelaide and
Williamstown Cups.
The curtain will be rung down
on Melbourne spring racing
when the Eclipse Stakes is run at
Caulfield this Saturday. Horses
that competed in the Williams-
town Cup are expected to face
the barrier, and perhaps Davey
Jones will atone for his defeat.
He has 9.1 in the mile and a
quarter, a distance which should
be more favorable to his winning
prospects. He will meet Morse
Code on much better terms, but
at time of writing it hadn’t been
decided whether Morse Code
would take his place in the field.
Others with prospects include
Quite Talk, Aldershot, Reformed
and Beau Reverie.
Rosebery-trained Headstock-
man, one of youthful mentor
Jack Morgan’s team, cleared out
with the Queensland Derby,
starting at 20 to I—the third
successive visiting three-year-
old to win the classic. Gallant
Archer, second at 6-to-4 on,
Kashmir, from Brisbane (third),
and Idlewild, another from Syd-
ney, were expected to fight out
the finish, but evidently the hard
spring season had wearied both
Gallant Archer and Idlewild;
also, they made a rush trip by
air to Brisbane. Headstockman
is raced by his breeder, J. S.
White, and is by former Sydney
stayer Concise from Limpet by
Roxburgh.
The party behind Carioca
must have lifted big money from
the five-year-old horse’s last
three wins, all in a row. His
brace of mile Welters at Rand-
wick were costly to the ringmen,
and they paid out many thou-
sands again after he won the
Warwick Farm Horsley Handi-
cap in runaway fashion, covering
the six furlongs in 1.1 which
clipped three-quarters of a
second from the previous record
shared by half a dozen horses,
including 1 leading miler of the
past, Chatham. It was an effort-
less win, and Carioca should be
hard to beat in the Villiers
Stakes, the Christmas mile event
at Randwick.
Imported sire Stockade, who
is in his first Australian season,
brought his tally to four winners
when Palisade and Fort were
successful at Warwick Farm. A
son of Big Game, Stockade, a
good performer in England up
to a mile and a quarter, is
located at S. G. White’s Carring-
ton stud, Jersey’s Plains, via
Singleton (N.S.W.). Mrs. White,
in partnership with Mrs. C. H.
Eastment, races Fort, who had
started only once previously.
Fort is a daughter of former
speedy mare Happy Bay, who is
by Phaleron Bay (imp.) from
Happy Returns (N.Z.) by Chief
Ruler (imp.).
• • • •
According to Gosford race-
book for last week’s meeting,
Maiden Handicap - winner
Wingen, raced by Sam Hordern,
should have carried the famous
livery of his father, white, red
sash, pale blue cap, but Wingen
raced in different colors. The
racing colors of the Hordern
family have been successfully
carried down the years, most
prominently by Artilleryman
(Melbourne Clip, 1919), and
Violoncello (Caulfield Cup,
1921). Artilleryman was raced
in partnership by Sir Samuel
Hordern and A, D. Murphy, but
Sir Sam had Violoncello on his
own.
It was not a little unusual to
see the noted colors booked for
an N.S.W. provincial track, but
Sam Hordern, like other owners,
realises it’s best to place a modest
galloper where winning prospects
seem brightest. It is a policy
that often brings the desired
result. An interesting aspect of
the win was that Wingen hadn’t
faced a barrier since December
30, 1950. The average owner
wouldn’t give a seven-year-old
maiden stable-room, but Wingen
had started a few times only be-
fore the Gosford meeting, and
the win, though of little mone-
tary value, was well received by
the public—Wingen was 6 to 4
favorite —and was appreciated
by the owner and by trainer N.
Dewsbury.
For perseverance with a
modest galloper it would be hard
to beat the party behind seven-
years-old Fire Gold, who won
his first race at Newcastle last
Saturday. Even then he had to
cover two miles and three fur-
longs in the process, as he was
twice saddled up in the after-
noon. After finishing third in
the Maiden Mile to King Street
he won the Second Novice over
11 furlongs, last race on the
programme.
The V.R.C. is not the only
Australian Club to stage an
Oaks Stakes. It does, of course,
programme the real Oaks, which
is as old a race as the Melbourne
Cup (first run 1861); but four
years ago the Tasmanian Racing
Club decided to run an Oaks
Stakes, and the fifth of the series
will be competed for at Elwick
track, Hobart, this Saturday.
The reward includes a special
trophy, and the three-year-old
fillies will race over one mile,
each carrying 8.5, The T.R.C.
Hobart Cup meeting will be
held on February 14 and 18
next.
San Domenico’s stable has
announced intentions of setting
the gelding for a second Caul-
field Futurity Stakes; he won
last autumn from Grey Boots
and Eclair. Long-range planning
occasionally brings its reward,
but rarely with aged performers,
and “Sandy” won’t find' the
Futurity easy next February,
Records show that the aged
THE FEATHERWEIGHT CHAMP.
[With that almost permanent Pelaco smile goes a propensity not
only to shake mitts with an opponent but to hug him with Gallic
affection. Ellery Bennett, b. Maryborough (Q.) 27 years ago, first
boxed-on in public in 1944 and has won all but 10 of 61 scraps,
in the latest retaining his fedder title by outing Bluey Wilkins in
the final session of their 15-rounder at Sydney Stadium, to the
depicted jack-in-the-box joy of trainer Snowy Hill. There’s a Mrs.
B. and bambino in Brisbane, and Ellery counts on retiring on to a
fishing-boat at Pialba, near Maryborough, a couple of years hence.]
horses hold a lean record in this
“glorified handicap” over seven
furlongs. Since the race was
established in 1898 only five aged
horses have been successful, the
list including that noted per-
former Amounts in 1930, carry-
ing 10,4. Ajax won the Futurity
three years in succession, 1938-
39-40, but he was a superior
galloper to San Domenico. He
won £40,275 in stakes, while
“Sandy,” till the end of the recent
racing year, had won 19 races
and with 17 minor placings had
earned £28,363. Gladsome and
St. Razzle were dual-winners of
the Futurity.
Reference this page recently
to Randwick’s 1918 spring
carnival recalls that some
of the greatest riding talent
ever to compete on an
Australian racetrack rode at
that fixture. Here are most
prominent of the names appear-
ing on the Randwick semaphores
that spring: A. Wood, P.
(“Bunty”) Brown, Jack Toohey,
Frank Dempsey, Bill Hill, Ben
Deeley and Jack O’Shea (both
N.Z.), Ken Bracken, Bill Barnett,
Bob Lewis, Hughie Cairns,
Myles Connell, George Harri-
son, Charlie Barden, Billy Lilly-
man, L. A. Walker, Bill Foul-
sham and Arthur Hood. What
a formidable list of top-ranking
horsemen to be riding at the
same meeting! Trainers those
days could pick any crack horse-
man at a moment’s notice; just
a matter of throwing the colors
into the jockeys’ room. Riders
of 30-odd years ago didn’t run
the telephone hot picking the
eyes from Saturday programmes.
While champion New Zea-
lander Dalray, winner of the
Melbourne Cup, A.J.C. Metro-
politan and weight-for-age events
over the spring round, is return-
ing to green pastures in his home-
land for the usual summer spell,
Unfaan and most likely Re-
formed, two other prominent
Dominion gallopers, are to re-
main in Australia. Unfaan may
be trained in Melbourne. He
won a race at Randwick like
good horse, but, even with
Neville Sellwood to help him
along, he could do no better than
fourth in the Melbourne Cup.
All three may meet again in the
A.J.C. Sydney Cup in the
autumn. Visit of the New Zea-
landers certainly added tone to
the spring fixtures and for Dal-
ray many thousands to his win-
ning record.
* * * i-
Young Peter Thomson, the
Victorian pro., lost the second
Ampol golf tourney in Mel-
bourne by a stroke, the Ameri-
can Lloyd Mangrum being just
so good that, wanting a birdie on
the 18th to win, he exploded his
second from a greenside bunker
for a 2ft. putt, the birdie, and an
aggregeate 281 to Thomson’s
282.
Three Australians, Thomson,
Von Nida and Nagle, filled the
places behind Mangrum;
Turnesa (U.S.A.) was fourth,
Demaret (U.S.A.) way down the
field and Oliver (U.S.A.) picked
up at the 64th after taking a 41
for the first nine of the last
round.
Oliver was criticised for pick-
ing-up at the 64th, and with
some justification. Earlier,
when Von Nida chipped him
for wisecracking, Oliver replied
that it was “a crowd game,”
meaning he was there to enter-
tain. Then he ought to have
gone on entertaining—after all,
it is “a crowd game.”
* * * *
In past years you didn’t have
to be an Inigo to foretell the
arrival of the annual Deluge ; it
was only a matter of looking up
the date of the N. S. Wales’
L.T.A.’s big fixture at White City.
This year the gods got as far as
threatening. Down in torrents
came what looked like the old
washout wash ; then there was
a relenting, with a generous
isue of beautiful tennis weather
for the opening rounds of the
N.S.W. championships. If it
holds, White City won’t hold the
crowds with the topliners meet-
ing from now on. Best spot in
the preliminary stuff was Eng-
lish youngster W. Knight tak-
ing L. Hoad to five sets before
going down.
# * * *
Rain washed out South Africa
v. Victoria. Top-score was Vic.
opener McDonald’s 73. His
partner, Thoms (they opened in
the final Test last year against
the West Indies), got “a pair.”
Victoria 138 (Ring 56; Murray
4-47) and 159 (McDonald 73 ;■
Tayfield 7-71); S. Africa 113
(Watkins 32; Johnson 4-27,
Iverson 3-38) and 4-71,
In Sydney N.S.W. beat
Queensland by nine wickets in
their return Shield match, over
before lunch on the third day.
Features were the chanceless
century for N.S.W. by Syd
Carroll (who has deserved more
recognition than he’s had, but
who is now given a good chance
of Test selection), Ray Lind-
wall’s fine bowling, N.S.W.
’keeper Trueman’s dismissal of
six batsmen in Q.’s second
innings and a good double by
McCook Northerner Len John-
son, like Thoms, was twice out
without notching a run. N.S.W.
260 (Carroll 126, Morris 58;
Clark 5-61, McCool 4-62) and
1-65; Q. 92 (Davidson 5-29,
Lindwall 4-31) and 232 (Tallon
84, McCool 42; Lindwall 3-29).
Last Friday’s games were S.
Africa v. N.S.W. at Sydney, and
Victoria v. S, Australia at
Adelaide. S. Africa began its
first innings disastrously—three
for three at one stage—but re-
covered to make a respectable
score. Top-scorer was Endean,
the team’s second wicketkeeper,
who is a Test certainty as bats-
man. He’s also a very nifty
close-to-the-wicket fieldsman,
and took three hard catches in
N.S.W.’s first innings. Best
knock in that innings was 17-
year-old lan Craig’s stylish 71.
At Adelaide the home-team
batted first, after which J.
Pluvius also took a hand in
proceedings.
* * * *
Meeting at Leichhardt for the
third time in about three
months. Carlo Marchini and A 1
Smith were declared to have
fought a draw, and the decision,
being a good one, was loudly
and vociferously hooted. Mar-
chini, a great crowd-pleaser, did
look to win .well, but he once
appeared to go down without
being hit, and, anyway, they’re
a particularly well - matched
brace of middleweights.
World bantam champ. Jimmy
Carruthers’s first-round k.o. of
title-holder Vic Toweel on Vic’s
native heath at Johannesburg,
South Africa, also knocked holes
in a couple of widely-held
notions: (1) That Australian
boxing has for some time been at
its lowest ebb ever; (2) that the
ebon-skinned have clean taken
the Noble Art over from the
effete Paleface. On (1), Jimmy
is Australia’s first recognised
world champ, at any weight; on
(2), he’s completely white of pelt
and white otherwise, also —an
authentic, clean-living little
Gentleman Jim of the Ring.
Quite a time back Griffo actually
won a world championship at
’Frisco, but it wasn’t “recog-
nised.”


brings rapid
relief to sufferers from
• RHEUMATISM
• SCIATICA and
• NEURITIS
Thousands of suf-
ferers of complaints
within the Rheuma-
tic Groups who had
given up hope of
ever getting relief,
are now living nor-
mal lives thanks
to Dolcin. Dolcin
gives prompt and
prolonged relief from
the painful symp-
toms of Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuritis, Lumbago, Fibrositis,
Gout, etc. ■ v
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the
medical profession.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been
administered throughout the world.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your
chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
00*
,u •"%%>
WEIGHTS RIGHT*
mm?.
h I I
£ £¥s-^:
:
Times right . . film’s right . .
all set for some fine indoor
snapshots. Be sure you keep
a permanent photographic
record of your youngster as
he grows up; in the years
ahead you’ll find hours of
pleasure in your album,
when you use KODAK FILM
‘it gets the picture ’
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
05
m
I#
%
KF673
Behind the Iron Curtain
RUSSIA’S
NEW LEADERS
By B. D. SINGER
WHEN I was in Russia in
1923, on the eve of
Lenin’s death, Moscow’s
great musical craze was
a symphony orchestra playing
without a conductor. The
politically-minded listeners tried
to see in its success a consola-
tion and a pointer: this —they
argued—is how our party-
machine will run the country
after Lenin’s, departure.
Yet Stalin proved them
utterly wrong. Slowly, but cun-
ningly and ruthlessly, he climbed
to the vacant post. He elimi-
nated all the potential competi-
tors, all the virtuosi and inde-
pendent players. He replaced
them with men of his own
choosing and moulded and
shaped them so that the new
band became obedient and
homogeneous, if not brilliant or
inspiring.
At the recent 19th All-union
Congress held in Moscow after
an interval of 13 years Stalin
was still very much the leader.
True, he kept himself in the
background for some of the
performances and let his assist-
ants —particularly Malenkvv—
try their hand; but it was
Stalin himself who chose the
programme, distributed the
scores and took the baton for
the finale.
And yet, despite the fact that
Stalin has once again so much
dominated the performance, one
had the impression that the
orchestra was sufficiently to-
gether to play effectively even
if the conductor should retire
or die.
This Congress was as im-
portant for Russia’s political life
as the Presidential election for
America’s. Interest was
heightened because not only
the men but the bodies they be-
long to wefe to be changed. In
the event, those leading men
who survived the purges of the
’thirties and were at the top on
the eve of the war are mostly
still there. Indeed, with the ex-
ception of the former agricul-
tural expert A. A. Andreyev, all
the surviving members of the
previous Politburo have been
included in the new Presidium
—its successor —but they have
new colleagues.
Party-membership has nearly
trebled since 1939, and party
governing committees have now
been swollen almost to the same
extent. Total membership of
the Central Committee —includ-
ing candidates —is now 235,
compared with fewer than 140
previously. The Presidium, the
most important new standing
organisation, is three times
bigger than its predecessor.
Though 12 members of the last
Politbureau have entered it en
bloc they account for only one-
third of the Presidium. The re-
mainder are relative newcomers,
many of whom were compara-
tively insignificant in party life
before the war. A new genera-
tion has arrived.
Such an influx of new blood
has changed radically the make-
up of the party’s ruling organ.
Three broad generations may
now be distinguished within its
ranks. First, a group of half
a dozen, headed by Stalin and
including Molotov, consists of
those who joined the party long
before the revolution of 1917.
Then comes an intermediary
group of about a dozen, who
joined the party on the eve of
the revolution or during the
Civil War. Among these the
best known are Lavrenti Beria,
the chief of Security, Marshal
Bulganin, the political head of
the Army, and Nikita Khrush-
chev, the policy-maker for agri-
culture and over 100 million
peasants. Fifty-year-old Malen-
kov, though slightly younger
than the others, also belongs to
that group, as he has been in the
party since 1920. Yet he looks
somewhat like the standard-
bearer of the third group, the
remaining half of the Presidium,
of the relative newcomers who
are a pure product of the
Stalinist era. They entered the
ranks after Lenin’s death, some-
time between 1924 and 1930.
Little has been heard so far
about these homines novi of the
Soviet regime, who are to play
an increasing role in running
affairs. One thing is certain:
they may be new, but they are
not particularly young.
When the October revolution
broke out most of the Bolshevik
leaders, Trotsky, Stalin,
Kamenev and Zinoviev, were still
in their thirties. The “old man”
Lenin was still in his forties
when he took the helm. The
Soviet newcomers, who are only-
just beginning their career of
leadership, are scarcely younger
than Lenin was.
The revolution opened the
way for meteoric careers to
young men of talent. The pre-
sent stratified bureaucratic State
requires that its rulers should
have made a long and steady
climb within the hierarchy. Most
of the new “young men” have
served a party apprenticeship of
about a quarter of a century.
Indeed, they have come along
more slowly than would a bril-
liant civil servant in Whitehall.
Two paths seem to lead to
highest distinction in the Soviet
Union: economic administra-
tion and routine work within the
party. The newcomers are
roughly evenly divided between
successful managers and party
bosses. The successful techno-
crats before reaching the Pre-
sidium must win economic
portfolios, and sometimes even
a post as vice-Premier, from
which they can direct an
economic department.
Thus, among the new en-
trants, one finds the Ministers
responsible for heavy and light
industries, for machinery, supply
and electric-power, as well as
the head of the Planning Com-
mission and the Finance Minis-
ter. The party - road usually
leads from smaller to bigger
regions, and ultimately through
the secretaryship of an import-
ant Republic like the Ukraine
or Byelorussia, or of an import-
ant centre, like Leningrad.
The emphasis on economic
experts is probably greater,
since some of the party secre-
taries are really first and fore-
most technocrats. Typical in
this respect is A. B. Aristov,
whose rise has been excep-
tionally rapid. At the previous
congress, in 1939, he was not
even among the delegates. Now
he has been chosen both for the
Presidium and the Secretariat.
He is a former manager of
Russia’s biggest steel-mill in
Magnitogorsk, and has been
entrusted with party work in one
of the biggest industrial centres
in the east, the Chelyabinsk
area.
I. F. Tevosyan, on the other
hand, is a pure specialist. He is
Minister for Ferrous Metals,
and is reported to be one of the
world’s greatest experts on steel-
production.
Andrei Vishinsky, the
By special arrangement with * the “Economist,” this
Bulletin feature, giving up-to-the-minute informa-
tion on current developments “Behind the Iron
Curtain,” appears each month.
Foreign Secretary, is the only
non-econornic Minister in the
Presidium, where he is only a
candidate. Indeed, the bulk of
Foreign Office high-ups are
merely candidates to the Cen-
tral Committee, where they sit
together with the Army’s top
experts.
The members of the younger
managerial generation—whether
technocrats or party manipula-
tors —differ in outlook from
their elders, particularly their
revolutionary ancestors. They
are not brilliant orators, subtle
theoreticians or dazzling literati.
They are efficient, self-confident
and ruthless leaders of men and
machines. Of Marxism they
know the practical side—plan-
ning. Its lofty ideals and inter-
nationalist aspirations seem to
them somewhat utopian and
quixotic. Their judgment is not
inhibited by revolutionary com-
plexes.
The Stalinist old guard always
sought to work out some recon-
ciliation however unconvinc-
ing between their original
principles and their subsequent
moves. The new men have no
such scruples. Trained as ex-
perts, not as thinkers, they are
too businesslike to have time
for such “nonsense.” They are
not unlike the American in-
dustrial magnates or the British
captains of industry during the
industrial revolution. And since
Russia’s industrial revolution is
still going on there is much
scope for these Soviet techno-
crat.
Yet if they are now to be
given a taste of political power
the real levers of command are
still in other hands. They will
be most useful in the new
Presidium as advisers on eco-
nomic and party matters, as
executives and overseers. This
body, however, is too bulky to
sit almost permanently and take
quick decisions. It needs to dele-
gate decisions to a smaller
executive headed by Stalin and
including the chief members of
the former Politbureau; i.e,,
representatives of the old
Stalinist guard and the inter-
mediary group. Malenkov alone
will be in this inner circle to
represent the youngest group, of
which he is not a real member.
On the other hand, the new
managers and bosses have now
swamped the Presidium and
Central Committee, In the Sec-
retariat, too, which now rules
the party-machine alone since
the abolition of the Orgbureau,
the newcomers are many and
are apparently devoted to
Malenkov, Should the latter de-
cide, after Stalin’s departure, to
fight it out with his con-
temporaries (he will probably
not worry about the elderly
Molotov) he may well climb to
power on the backs of the new
generation,
Stalin must be preparing for
a smooth succession. He must
wish to avoid Lenin’s blunder,
which left the way open for his
own dictatorship. The orchestra
is being properly trained, the
parts distributed. Yet the de-
parture of such a masterful con-
ductor may well leave a vacuum
difficult to fill, and the whole
ensemble may get out of tune.
Whatever happens, however,
whether they all start struggling
for the baton, or share it, or
decide to leave the rostrum
vacant, the new players, who
have now entered the orchestra
en masse, will play a vital part
in its future career.
The future of the Soviet
regime is largely in the hands of
these Stalinist technocrats, -Who
are almost entirely its own
creation.


I
fusty
VS
the name is
the whisky is
Distilled and blended
in Scotland
Mc2/3.2
KLG
CORUN DITE
REQUEST A COPY OP
/ THE K.L.G. RECOMMEND-
/ ATI ON BOOKLET FROM
/ YOUR LOCAL DEALER
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CRITICAL COMMONWEALTH CONFERENCE
“There is a growing belief that
the forthcoming Commonwealth
conference on trade and finance
will rival in significance the
historic talks at Ottawa in 1932,
at which decisive measures were
agreed upon to strengthen Im-
perial preference.”
Practically the entire British
Press, from different viewpoints,
endorses that Edinburgh “Scots-
man” rating of the Prime Minis-
ters’ conference in London this
month.
The “Financial Times” notes
that the whole thing has been
planned as “a large-scale strategic
exercise,” with close on six
months of preparatory worx
already done.
Conference Aims
“Probably,” says the “Finan-
cial Times,” “the best way to
arrive at an understanding of the
basic issues of the conference is
to ask what sort of decision
emerging from it would be re-
garded as a success for the whole
endeavor.
“The broad aim is to give the
sterling area a new position of
strength in world economic
affairs. In order to do this the
conference must achieve at least
two things.
“First, it must show its ability
and will to take the measures,
some of them painful, in each
individual country that are neces-
sary to reach a collective long-
term balance with the rest of
the world. Balance with the
dollar area is the core of this
problem; but, as recent ex-
perience has shown, the danger
of disequilibrium with Western
Europe and Japan can in cer-
tain circumstances be equally
troublesome.
“The second aim will be to
create the conditions for a new
approach to Canada and the
United States which will help to
achieve this long-term objective
more speedily. Canada’s position
is crucial in this. It is apparent
that the degree of co-operation
that may be expected from the
dollar area in the sterling area’s
new effort will be a determining
factor in much of the work of
the conference.”
Canadian Criticism
Canada, while certain to be
co-operative, is likely to be de-
cidedly critical of other members
of the general Commonwealth,
judged by Canadian Press and
other comments.
“The plain fact,” British
banker and economist L. J. File-
wood summarises in London
“Time and Tide,” “is that the
Canadians are not moved to
sympathy by the ever-recurrent
crises in the sterling area. They
are of the opinion that these are
largely due to our own lack of
realism, to our fatal facility for
calling a shortage of hard work
a shortage of dollars.
“They think that our financial
policy since the war has never
seriously sought to check infla-
tion, that our Governments have
not yet pursued the necessary
economic course, stern, stream-
lined and luxury- excluding,
which would ultimately secure
the balance of payments and
restore stability.
“They say that under pressure
from any powerful interest, our
rulers oscillate, modify their
measures and yield to grossly
uneconomic demands more
wages, more services, more
profligate expenditure—because
they are fearful of unpopularity
and ultimate death by avalanche
of the electorate.
“But chiefly and continuously
they feel that if only we all put
our backs into it a bit more, the
resulting greater production
would of itself go a long way
towards settling our problems.
“The Canadians hold that if
we want to go on living at a
pretty high standard whilst en-
joying all the costly underpin-
ning of security that characterises
a Welfare State, there should be
a more spontaneous and deter-
mined ripple of the domestic
muscle.”
Complex, Difficult
The quoted banker, of course,
was speaking of Britain, but
much of the Canadian criticism,
of course, applies elsewhere. It
is the very opposite outlook to
that of those who proffer the
election-bait of easier times and
easier profits for less effort.
In the “Financial Times’s”
view, no useful bargain with the
dollar area on such essentials as
selling to it and attracting in-
vestments by it will be possible
unless members of the sterling
area themselves can agree on
some kind of “joint production-
policy.”
And “That might well mean
that one member would have to
limit a highly desirable form of
investment in its own country
in order to allow the diversion
of resources to an enterprise with
a more promising dollar-yield
elsewhere.
“The problem has only to be
stated to indicate the complexity
of the difficulties, political as well
as economic, that will have to
be overcome in order to make a
complete success of the sterling
area’s new venture in closer
economic integration.”
Dramatic Possibilities
Edinburgh “Scotsman” gives
space to a report that the con-
ference is probably the fore-
runner of a much bigger one.
It states that a shifting of the
“bloc-war” between East and
West from the predominantly
military to the economic field is
foreshadowed in Washington,
and points out that the series of
economic conferences lately held
closely parallels the discussions
preceding the formation of the
Atlantic Pact and the European
Defence Community:
“It is clear that some dramatic
change in the hand-to-mouth
expedients of general economic
policy is to be expected, to avoid
periodic economic crises. Ameri-
can sources expect this to come
from the Churchill Government,
and suggest that Britain may be
willing to abandon Imperial
preference ' altogether in return
for far-reaching concessions in
the American markets. The im-
mediate result of such a gesture
would presumably be an eco-
nomic conference of all the non-
Communist nations.
“British Treasury experts
—Baltimore ( U.S.A .) “Sun”
“IF WE PRETEND HE ISN’T THERE HE’LL GO AWAY”
naturally do not care to com-
ment on this suggestion, but
point out that it could not be
made by Britain alone, but
would have to await discussion
at the Commonwealth Confer-
ence. That this is not so unlikely
as may at first appear can be
seen from acid Canadian com-
ments that full use is not now
being made of Imperial prefer-
ence and from the Australian
desire for closer association with
the American markets.”
On this, a “political correspon-
dent” in the “Financial Times”
reports that, while there is at
present a considerable body of
opinion in Britain that wants to
retain Imperial preferences and
to build upon them, “this view
is not necessarily held in all the
Commonwealth countries, where
there are, in fact, divergent
views.”
Last year the British Com-
monwealth share in world trade
amounted to 30 per cent, of the
total —about as much as the
whole of Europe and consider-
ably more than the U.S. And,
comments the “Financial Times”
editorially, “This provides some
indication of the real strength of
the bargaining counter that the
Commonwealth has in its hands
in any negotiations with the
United States.”
might have been expected to
inspire.
“The danger of a rude
awakening is likely to increase
in proportion with every act
aimed to encourage such an
attitude.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” has no
doubt at all about what’s wrong
with them:
“When all allowance is made
for the financial troubles of the
European countries, the shortfall
in the Lisbon programme [for
the Nato nations’ rearma-
ment] is due to a failure of will
rather than to material ob-
stacles. Too many people, like
the Socialists in Britain, put
social services and so on before
security.”
West Grows Slack
“The effort,” notes London
“Twentieth Century,”' “that was
to be made to close by 1953 the
‘hideous gap’ in the defence of
Western Europe, which every-
body had discovered at the time
of the Korean crisis,, is relaxing.
“The United States Congress
has heavily and arbitrarily cut
both the American defence
budget and the fund for ‘off-
shore’ purchases on which so
much of European rearmament
depends. The spirit implied by
such measures has found accept-
ance and, indeed, has been
reflected in Britain and much
of the Continent, where public
opinion has willingly conceded
to such false and lazy optimism
as retrenchments of this kind
Satellite Clean-up
In a tight turn of the screw,
the Soviet clamp is being made
fast on the satellites, possible
opposition in which (reports
Richard Lowenthal in London
“Observer”) is being ruthlessly
cleaned-up by extraordinary
measures.
All through Eastern Europe
the middle-class is being finally
wiped out and working-class
resistance broken.
Deportation of unreliable ele-
ments from the industrial towns
and frontier villages, the writer
says, has spread from Rumania,
via Hungary, to Czechoslovakia,
and the protection of all Wes-
tern frontiers by watch-towers,
barbed-wire and mines to pre-
vent refugees from escaping has
become universal, even on the
borders between Hungary and
Czechoslovakia on one side and
Russian-occupied eastern Austria
on the other.
The common impression con-
veyed by ail these measures is
that of a directive to break all
resistance now: “It seems that
the expected lull in foreign policy
is to be deliberately used for
creating monolithic societies be-
fore international conflict be-
comes acute again.”
India's Noes
U.N.O.’s latest “mediator,”
American Dr. Graham, having
duly failed on his Kashmir
mission (as his predecessor, Aus-
tralian Sir Owen Dixon, could
have told him he would), Lopdon
“Economist’s” correspondent in
Pakistan puts India’s successive
“Noes” on record:
“It has of course been clear, to
Pakistan if not to the world, that
playing for time has been an
integral and important part of
India’s whole policy in regard
to the dispute.
“Mr. Nehru, or those speaking
to his brief, said ‘No’ to the
United Nations Commission’s
arbitration proposal of August,
1949, though it was endorsed by
President Truman and Mr.
Attlee and accepted by Pakistan.
“He said ‘No’ to General
McNaughton’s proposals of
December, 1949, which Pakistan
again accepted.
“He said ‘No’ to Sir Owen
Dixon’s scheme in July, 1950,
though Pakistan was at least pre-
pared to discuss this.
“He said ‘No’ in January,
1951, to the three alternative pro-
posals put forward by the Com-
monwealth Prime Ministers at
the London conference, all of
which were accepted by
Pakistan.
“He said ‘No’ to Dr.
Graham.”
Far Too Healthy
“Whenever the U.N. gets into
far-reaching social or economic
discussions, it confronts the fact
that the world population of
about 2,400,000,000 is increasing
at the rate of about 60,000
persons every 24 hours.”
New York “Herald Tribune’s”
U.N.O. correspondent, reporting
this, indicates that the trouble is
that many countries whicn
weren’t so before are getting too
healthy for their own comfort.
Ceylon, for instance:
“Through its own initiative
and with outside expert help,
Ceylon recently just about
eliminated malaria as a mass
killer. This is a great achieve-
ment, but it has a serious by-
product.
“It means Ceylon’s 6,650,000
population can double in 30
years. That means doubling
food-production in 30 years if
Ceylon is merely to hold the line,
more than doubling it if there is
to be any living - standard
improvement.”
Japan is another and well-
known instance; not so well-
known are the steps being taken
there to deal with the problem:
“Japan has made official pro-
vision for sterilisation —both
voluntary and involuntary—and
has legalised abortion. It is
estimated at the U.N. that more
than 1,000,000 abortions were
performed in Japan last year, and
some say 2,000,000. The figures
also say that one of every three
pregnancies in Japan last year
was ended by abortion. In addi-
tion, Japan is in process of


Whatever you HAUL
whatever you DELIVER
Imported model 1-192
heavy-duty truck (142-
Inch wheelbase).
fsd
Australian-made model
AL-160 medium-heavy-
duty truck (172-inch
wheelbase).
f
sdf
Australian-made model
AL-130 light truck
(134-inch wheelbase).
There’s on Internolionol for your fob
HETHER you operate the largest fleet of trucks or
the smallest unit, it's in your interest before buying
to first inspect International trucks.
Increased manufacture at International Harvesters
Dandenong Works assures availability of Australian-made
Internationals in the light, medium and medium-heavy-
duty field.
In the heavy-duty field your need can be met by the
imported heavy-duty Internationals.
The ideal all-purpose vehicle for your light carrying
problems is the International model AL-110 utility featured
below. Its Australian-made Silver Diamond engine has a
reserve of durability that puts extra quality and economy
into International light-duty trucks. The sturdy truck
chassis and extra large payload area are ideally balanced
and flexibly sprung to give you passenger car comfort.
Experienced drivers are keen on it women handle it
with ease. It will carry you and your goods with complete
security and comfort anywhere, anytime.
Let your International Harvester district sales office>
distributor or dealer tell you more about it.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria}
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
M
Right for cargo, hauling time
and distance —that's the answer
when you use International
trucks! So plan to speed up
schedules and cut costs with
more miles from an Inter-
national's daily operation.
Australian-made model AL-110 utility (115-inch
wheelbase).
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
MT3BO*4O
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial Power
setting up some 750 marriage
consulation offices throughout
the country to make available
information on how size of
families can be limited.”
Containment, Plus
On one count and another
and no doubt from a variety of
motives, too —more and more of
those who give thought to the
present Western policy of “con-
tainment” of Soviet Russia are
finding it unsatisfactory.
Thus David Lawrence, editor
of “U.S. News and World Re-
port,” has stated that, since the
Communists know the Western
Allies will never start a “pre-
ventive war” or an offensive
war, Soviet Russia can safely
pursue policies of harassment
and infiltration for years to
come.
Also the present Western
(essentially U.S.) policy works to
the advantage of the other side
in that it means continuous
enormous expenditure by our
side for unproductive purposes,
to the extent of threatening the
solvency of the U.S, and its
associates.
“There is,” Lawrence has sug-
gested, “another way, and it does
not involve war or the threat of
war —to bring Communist
imperialism to its knees with
economic strategy.
“This requires a pooling of
economic resources by the West.
An international organisation of
Governments of free nations
should be formed to see to it
that not a ton of goods—
strategic or non-strategic—is
allowed to enter any Iron Cur-
tain country. This means that
for about a [U.S.] billion dol-
lars a year the international pool
can buy up all East-West trade.
No producer or exporter need
suffer any financial loss. Sur-
pluses could be disposed of to
Point Four [needy and back-
ward] areas at reduced prices,
or even to countries in Western
Europe where a low standard of
living prevails. Certain materials
could be put into stockpiles for
future military needs.
“To enforce such an embargo
it would be necessary to carry
on a system of worldwide in-
spection to make sure that no
ship leaves a port in any coun-
try with goods destined for Iron
Curtain countries. Land bor-
ders must be sealed off, too.
Countries refusing to co-operate
with inspection at the ports
would be subject to sea inspec-
tion as ships leave those ports.
So-called neutral countries
would be allowed quotas and
would have to give guarantees
against reshipment to Com-
munist areas.”
Nice to Know
A London “Daily Mail” writer
quotes Cambridge physicist Fred
Hoyle for the information
that in two years’ time the cost
of exterminating people with
atomic bombs will be a mere £1
a head, as against several
thousand pounds with high-
explosive.
Mr. Hoyle, says the report,
foresees a time—quite soon—
when “improvements” in the
supply of atomic fuel may
provide enough for 6000 atomic
bombs a year —each bomb, he
estimates, would kill 25,000
people, but “this estimate should
not be quoted too precisely, since
the supply of human material
would very likely run out before
all the bombs could be used.”
Coronation
Another strong advocate of
changes in the coronation
ceremony to make it Common-
wealth-wide —this time a peer.
Lord Altrincham, in a London
“Times” letter:
“Symbolism and ceremony are
useless, and may even be
harmful, if they do not express
a reality. The religious signi-
ficance of the coronation is
unchanged ; but on the political
side there are new realities which
its symbolism and ceremony
should faithfully express.
“The Crown is not the
exclusive property of the United
Kingdom Though in one sense
indivisible (so that there can be
no question of separate corona-
tions), it ‘belongs’ in equal
measure to all the members of a
WO rld-wide Commonwealth, in-
c i ud j ng several sovereign nations
an d man y not yet sovereign de-
penc jencies. Even India, which
- s itself a republic, acknowledges
t^e Q. own as tbe S y m bol of
Commonwealth unity.
“s ure ly, therefore, next year’s
coronat j on should be so
organised as to provide place
in the Abbey for representatives
of the whole Commonwealth in
P ro Per measure; without undue
preponderance to those of the
United Kingdom. Revival of the
Enthronement in Westminster
Hall, which was the ancient form
till discontinued in 1831, might
at f irst sight appear to conflict
with the Commonwealth prin-
ci P le because it would concern
members of the United Kingdom
Parliament alone. But it would
sure ly be splendidly justified if it
made possible a reduced attend-
ance United Kingdom peers
and M.P.S in the Abbey, so that
t^ie representation of other Com-
monwealth Parliaments could be
adequately provided for.
“As a peer who has perhaps
had some opportunity of serving
the Commonwealth in all its
countries, I should myself be
quite willing to surrender my
place in the Abbey if I could
thereby assist in making the
coronation a truly Common-
wealth occasion. I cannot be-
lieve that other peers would be
less willing. Our robes and
coronets are of very little account
compared with the magnificence
of a Crown which rings the globe
and symbolises the greatest poli-
tical experiment in human
history.”
Dragnet Digest
Cold Comfort. London
Spectator warms its hands at
the ice-box: “What Russia is
compelling other people to suffer
she is being compelled to suffer
herself; the cold war is pretty
chilly for both sides.”
Great Expectations. “It is
generally agreed,” comments
“Manchester Guardian,” “that
there has been some slight
slackening of world tension, but
w ho can say what the present
uneasy lull will lead to? Every-
where we are waiting for things
to happen.”
The Bevanites. —Assessed by
London “Economist”: “The
Bevanites’ attitude presents an
extreme paradox. They profess
to be upholders of the Common-
wealth. Surely they know, or
should make it their business to
find out, that a split between
London and Washington would
undermine more speedily than
anything else the unity of the
Commonwealth. They also pro-
fess to believe that $lO billion
of new investment is needed
each year for the backward
areas. Do they expect the
British community to provide it?
Or do they suppose that the
Americans can be blackmailed,
goaded and insulted into pour-
ing their wealth into the outside
world? The only likely answer
is that they have not thought
about it at all.
Upton Sinclair to Joe—ln an
e tQ i: n r.rmtpH
q; n „i fl ; r . “if rnv cir
Smclair included: If my cm-
cumstances permitted the wid
circulation of this letter I am
sure that I could present to you
the signatures of tens of mifiions
of Americans, beseeching you to
come to them with the extended
hand of friendship and promis-
ing to convince you not merely
of their good faith but of their
ability as self-governing citizens
of a free democratic society to
influence their Government and
see to it that peace, justice and
brotherhood are made to pre-
vail in this tormented world.”
Universal English. London
“Times” correspondent, com-
menting on the ease and efH-
ciency with which orders were
carried out by the mixture of
nations in Nato air, sea and
land exercises; English is truly
a common language in this odd
preview of an international
army. Few cannot understand
it and most seem to it
with some degree of fluency.
Lucky Lorn . Discovered by
London “Daily Mail” while
looking into the “purges” of “Old
Communists”: “The luckiest of
{ be Old Communists was prob-
abjy Lenin, who died a natural
death before he could be tr i e d
and shot for being too Leninist.”
Th War-weary Chinee
ine war weary c nee.
“ There a ff” says NeW Y ° rk
Times, qualified and astute
observers of the Chinese scene
who be i ieV e that the Peiping
re gi me ’ s Korean adventure can
j t fatally vulnerable at
home . There is abundant testi-
mony to the war-weariness of
the Chinese.”
For Coin Collectors ,—London
“Times” calls at the Royal Mint;
“The only coins issued from the
Royal Mint this year are half-
pennies and farthings. Not one
cupro-nickel coin—still termed
'silver’—dated 1952 is in circula-
tion ; nor is it expected that any
will be struck during the remain-
ing quarter of the year. This is
without precedent.”


m
mmm.
5 'i
WMi
M
83%
of
AUSTRALIAN MEN
wear
Self-supporting
Trousers
A recent survey reveals that a
man’s first concern is the fit, then
the color, then the material. This
explains why so many Australian
men wear only STAMINA Self-
supporting Trousers.
Yes! What you want, what you
rightly demand, is yours when
you INSIST on getting Stamina
Trousers. A comfortably stylish
fitting —lO attractive colors to
choose from Crusader Pure
Wool Worsted Cloth. Yes! you
certainly buy well when you
buy STAMINA.
ASK FOR
Stamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
T 2-113
things which can’t. Georgeson
was rather mortified to discover
that Wally Wayfare’s profession
was one of them
It appeared that if thev had
horse-races in Lithuania, Katrie
had been unaware of it. She
knew what gambling was, but
couldn’t see what horses had to
do with it Sn ffenrppsnn finallv
dropped the horses, and let her
think that Wally was the director
of the local municipal lottery
She was not particularly
impressed with the importance
of the office, a fact which showed
Georgeson what a lot she had to
learn before she could become a
real Australian.
Katrie came and showed her-
self to Georgeson before she went
out with Wally the first time. She
had put on a pretty frock, done
up her face and something to her
hair, and wore a modish hat
instead of the maid’s starched
linen cap. Georgeson sat up
abruptly when he saw her, he got
such a surprise, and he would
have held her there indefinitely,
talking, if Wally hadn’t come
along to take her away.
Wally was smirkin. with pride
vvany was smirking wun priue
° Vet t 1S e^ot^’ loo!v1 ” 8 Bir |; so
caU him back
qute sharoty m/to use such
vulgarisms as
vulgarisms as
„. . ,
, Wlth f C | eorge , Son f a PP' r ° va1 ’
he was takmg ker t 0 the local
race-meeting, where, for once,
he could °P era te legitimately,
Georgeson was uneasy. He
remembered the types he’d seen
in the Wayfare pseudo-barber-
shop, and wondered what Katrie
would think of them, or, for that
matter, what they would think of
her.
Still, although he never went
to race-meetings, he knew that
the locals regarded them as
immensely important social
affairs. All the nobility and
gentry would be there ; they’d
been chattering about it inces-
santly and thinking of nothing
else for weeks; that is, if they
thought about the things they
talked about, and it wasn’t just a
sort of animal noise of
anticipation.
Georgeson didn’t see Katrie
until the next day, but Wally
came in, as instructed, to make
his report. He stood there
chagrined and embarrassed,
despite his lavishly expensive
suit, his silk shirt and American
technicolor tie; winding his
valuable new hat around each
hand alternately.
“It was all right,” he said
defensively, “but she”—and
then he began to realise the
limits of his capacity to explain
the subtleties of human behavior
—“well, she acted like this.
When I took her out to my car,
I thought she’d say something.
It’s a new car, you know, and a
good one. 1 had it polished up
specially for the occasion. But
she just got in as if it was a tram.
So I said ‘This—is—my—rear,’
just the way you told me to, and
I kne\y she’d understand it, but
she just nodded and said ‘Yes,’
and started looking around at
other things.
“Then when she saw the
crowds at the racecourse, she
started getting interested. She
looked real beaut. ‘lt is
important?’ she kept saying, ask-
ing questions the wrong way
round the way she does. I told
her it was mighty important, no,
very important, and she got
quite excited.
“Well, she didn’t want to go
with any of the people I intro-
duced her to, so I parked the
car near my stand and put on
my bag. Well, you should ’ve
seen her! I never felt so hot and
bothered in my life. She laughed
like mad ; she read my name out
loud half-a-dozen times in her
foreign voice, and each time she
laughed more, and all the blokes
who were beginning to cluster
round to start business gaped at
her and then sheered off. I must
have lost ten or twenty pounds
over that.
“Well, I got her settled into
the car, and for a couple of races
I was too busy to think of her.
Then there was a break, so I
went across to see how she was
enjoying herself. She was still
gaping about. ‘The important
—he is where?’
“Well, you know, that nearly
knocked me flat, as if she
couldn’t hear the people yelling
and see them jumping about and
tearing up their tickets. I showed
her all the money I had in my
bag, and then she wanted to
know whether the people had to
give it to me. And then she
asked me if they’d have enough
left to buy food. So many fool
questions I was glad to get to
work again.
“When it was over, I got a
mob of friends into my car and
we went to celebrate. ‘Beer,’ I
told her, ‘good Australian beer.’
I thought that would be some-
thing to interest her. We all got
around a big table and everyone
was talking at once, and she just
sitting there. I thought I ought
to tell her what was going on,
and since they were all talking
about how much better the beer
was at that pub than at any other
in town, 1 said to her: ‘Beer
good here,’ then I pointed to the
pub across the road, and said
‘Beer not good there.’
“Some of the girls started to
giggle, and one of the blokes
said ‘Gripes, Wally, you sound
like a blasted old cockatoo! ’ Of
course, then they all roared, and
Katrie seemed to think they were
laughing at her. Just then the
beer came in, and they all tried
to make it up to her. ‘Beer
good,’ they said, pointing at it,
though some of them still giggled
a bit.
“Well, she drank about half
her glass and pushed it away,
and after that she just sat there,
taking no notice of anyone, and
her face getting glummer until
it was just as bad as it used to
be in here. When we’d had
about four or five rounds and
everyone was beginning to get
happy (although she’d refused to
have any more), she got up and
said she’d go home. So I
brought her, and that’s that. I
don’t think it’s any good taking
her out, you know. She’ll never
learn how to get on with
Australians.”
Wally looked upset, but quite
determined to make an end of it,
too. He’d obviously had enough.
He didn’t wait to hear what
Georgeson had to say,
WHEN Katrie brought Mr.
Georgeson’s breakfast in,
she did not dare smile at him.
He gave her a brief “Good morn-
ing” and “Thank you” in
English. But as he chewed un-
enthusiastically at his toast, he
realised that it was enormously
unfair to blame her. Wally was
the one, and not exactly for fail-
ing, because that was all a
reasonable being could expect of
him, but for being what he was
—“a laggard in love and a
dastard in war.”
“A laggard in love and a
dastard in war” —Georgeson
rolled it around in his mind,
thinking how he’d like to call
Wally that to his face, but he
soon realised that he probably
wouldn’t understand it, and even
if he did, it wouldn’t impress
him. Fellows like Wally were
peculiarly invulnerable.
He’d really needed another
kind of man for his purpose
Not a very wonderful man ; one
with only a hundredth of the
courage and determination o
that chap who fought his way
back to Austria and out with his
girl. He tried to think of some
one who might do, but he didn’
know many people in the tovm
except his colleagues, and they
were hopeless. The young ones
were thoughtless and selfish, anc
the older ones (those who were
unmarried) stiff and crusty, anc
wouldn’t budge an inch for Goc
Almighty.
Mr. Georgeson admitted he
was bitterly disappointed ; anc
he couldn’t help it if he lackec
any kind of cordiality towards
Katrie. Sometimes, indeed, he
spoke to her in German, but
merely to ask her if the sun was
shining outside, or something
like that. Her face never lit up
the way it used to, and he was
worried about that, too. Perhaps
she had admired the handsome
Wally.
She. didn’t come into his ward
as often as she used to, and he
wondered if that was deliberate,
or if it was just a matter of
orders. When he saw her going
up and down the corridor, she
looked as forlorn and lonely as
when he’d first started taking
notice of her.
Mr. Georgeson left the
hospital and went back to work.
By some quirk of fate, he
couldn’t get away from the
problem of displaced persons.
There was a “New Australian”
boy in one of his classes who
knew practically no English.
How on earth the boy was going
to learn anything with the classes
so overlarge and the teachers so
indifferent he couldn’t imagine.
There were letters in the papers
about them and reports of them
committing suicide.
It all had a very depressing
effect on Mr. Georgeson, remind-
ing him of Katrie. What was
there for a girl like her to live
for, anyway? The hours of
tedious and harrying work, and
the more dreadful hours of
leisure when there was nothing
for her and her companion to
do. Did they sit in their room
lamenting their lost and twice-
violated country, or had they
reached a stage of such weariness
with each other that they had no
more to say? Something of the
dreadful homesickness of the
exile reached through to him.
His pupils told each other that
“cranky old Georgeson was
crankier than ever.” They were
right. Georgeson found them
increasingly trying. It was so
bad that he got to wondering if
he could go on teaching, and if
he couldn’t, what would he do
then? He found it harder and
harder to eat the food at his
boarding-house, and then one
day he caused a glorious sensa-
tion in his classroom by passing
out cold in front of them all.
HE was feeling a bit steadier
when he got to the hospital,
and able to walk with the assist-
ance of the ambulance-driver. It
was strange to be coming back
so soon again, seeing patients
who’d been there before, so that
it seemed as if the interval had
been only imaginary. Some of
the nurses made frivolous
remarks about his not being able
to stay away from them.
And then he caught sight of
Katrie, with bent head and pale
face, hopelessly weary and miser-
able. She turned and saw him.
He was astonished at the way
she changed, her eyes and face
lit up so that she seemed more
beautify! than when she’d shown
herself to him before she went
to the races.
“Oh, Mr. Georgeson,” she
said, speaking in her spontaneous
German, her voice full of those
delicious modulations he remem-
bered in his grandmother, “you
came back again! ”
And, though Mr. Georgeson
could think of nothing to say to
her, his mind was filled with such
a tumult of outrageous and extra-
ordinary ideas that if the nurse
hadn’t stopped him he would
have got into bed with his boots
on.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES HILTON ROBERTS late
of 24 Cox Avenue Bondi Beach Sydney
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
ELIZABETH ROBERTS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3195 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 27th of January 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
WM. LIEBERMAN & TOBIAS, Solicitors,
of 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SARAH MAUD FEW (possibly known
as ELLIOTT) formerly of Dorrigo New
South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM FEW has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2997 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion for 3 years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse and is asking for
the exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act (1899) If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 27th of January 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER &
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MATTHEW WILLIAM MATTHEWS
late of Moonee Ponds Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that ETTA LA VINA MATTHEWS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 505
of 1952 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 27th January 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
BRIAN MULLEN, Solicitor, of 84 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO SHEILA VERONICA RYDING for-
merly of Cottesloe W.A.—TAKE NOTICE
that your husband ALBERT EDWARD
RYDING has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of adultery If you desire to de-
fend such proceedings you must file your
defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court Perth within forty (40)
clear days from the date of this publica-
tion In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders against
you in your absence. DATED this sth
day of November, 1952. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. HAROLD HAYNES &J. G.
PICTON-WARLOW, Solicitors, of 9 Bar-
rack Street, Perth.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN SUTHERLAND THOMPSON
formerly of 37 Roslyn Street Elizabeth
Bay in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that NORMA HAZEL
ANN THOMPSON has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 3541 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 22nd day of
January 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition free of charge from MESSRS.
DAVID S. DIND & CO., Solicitors, 67
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
FREDERICK WILLIAM FIELD, probably
known as WILLIAM CLIFFORD, formerly
of Timaru, New Zealand, last heard of
in Sydney in December, 1939, is requested
to communicate with the undersigned.
Will any person aware of his present
address supply same? —DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Timaru, New Zealand.
TO ALBERT HENRY SMITH formerly of
Melbourne Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife JOYCE ALLISON SMITH has
commenced proceedings against you for
a divorce on the ground of desertion
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the 21st day
of December 1952 the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that if you intend to defend the
said proceedings you must file an answer
in the said office on or before the 31st day
of December 1952. This advertisement
is inserted by 0. M. S. POWER, of 283
Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Solicitor,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO LEONARD SPENCER or BOWEN-
SPENCER formerly of Sydney in the
State of N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife MARGARY EVELINE
SPENCER has commenced proceedings
against you for a Divorce on the ground
of desertion UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the office of the Prothono-
tary of the Supreme Court Melbourne on
or before the 21st day of December 1952
the case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay costs AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that if you
intend to defend the said proceedings you
must file an answer in the said office
on or before the 31st day of December
1952. This advertisement is inserted by
O. M. S. POWER, of 283 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Public Solicitor, Solicitor for
the Petitioner.
Public Notice
IT DIMITRIOS JAMES CALLIANIS, of
Greek nationality, born at Pardoli,
Laconia, (Greece, resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 3J Oxford St.,
Paddington, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
0. C. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
REPAIR BItLS
T...- jhAR^U
»«> S
0« u
c «t w
S
s.\
A.
fa
V.»
cS2^
Gfop
losW
'mom
/
on your oM.
worn •oof tractor
Farming is a business you can’t
afford losses through inefficiency. Making do
with out-of-date equipment is false economy. You’ll get
far richer rewards for your labour if you invest in a Nuffield Universal
the one tractor that has everything, does everything! Complete
with 6-way power power take-off, swinging drawbar, belt pulley,
hydraulic lift, two hydraulic tapping points, and full electrical
equipment, the Nuffield Tractor does
everything a 10-horse team will do
and more, effortlessly, and with
year-round reliability and economy.
Yoo’// Save ntonef
Make More money
WITH A
r.j m
m
m
&
l: --a
2
iamB
NT12.2AJ»
SAA
V EH
HI
a
TRACTOR
. . . the last word in
efficient Tractor design
DISTRIBUTORS-
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: FLINDERS MOTORS LTD.
South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania; METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
sd
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
1 :
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, N.S.W.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Road to
Palestine (1918) and Australian Light
Horse Ballads and Rhymes by Edwin
Gerard (“Gerardy” of The Bulletin).
—5371.
To buy copies of “Dalgety’s Re-
view” (monthly), published in 1910,
1911 and 1912.—5375.
To buy copy of The Billy Book by
David Low and Andy’s Selection by
Eric Jolliffe.—s374.
To buy copy of The Bulletin of
December 12, 1945, containing story
“The Road to Omeo” by Brian
James. —5373.
Whereabouts of Michael Gibson,
of Wheatley Hill, Durham, Epgland,
who left England 40 years ago. (Reply
direct to Mrs. R. M. Hagan, 24 Ford
Oval, South Hilton, near Sunderland,
England.)
To buy or borrow books by Louis
Becke. —5372.
Information Sought
In what circumstances may an
aboriginal be . granted an old-age
pension ?
An age-pension may be granted to
an aboriginal native of Australia if
(a) he is for the time being exempt
from the provisions of the law of the
State or Territory in which he resides
relating to the control of aboriginal
natives; or (b) he resides in a State
or Territory the law of which does
not make provision for such exemp-
tion and the Director-General of
Social Services is satisfied that, by
reason of the character and of the
standard of intelligence and social
development of the native, it is desir-
able that a pension should be granted.
* * * *
How to prevent goats from stripping
the bark from the trunks of trees ?
Goats are essentially browsing-
rather than grazing-type animals —i.e.,
they show a distinct preference for
leaves and twigs from shrubs and
trees rather than grass. If a goat is
confined to a grass paddock where
shrubs are absent it may easily
develop the bad habit of stripping
bark from the trunks of trees. Pro-
vided adequate bulky fibrous food is
supplied, goats seldom suffer from
deficiency-diseases which are rela-
tively common in some other animals,
such as cattle and horses. Where
possible it is very desirable that they
be given access to a field wjiere some
browsing-type fodder is available. In
the absence of this, small quantities
of lucerne or cereal hay should be
supplied as a bulk-feed. It is sug-
gested that you should contact the
appropriate officers in the Department
of Agriculture and Stock in Rock-
hampton and ask them to investigate
your problem.
* * * *
How should sawdust be treated for
adding to the soil in growing of
lettuce? Would there be any harmful
effects in the use of sawdust?
Sawdust can be rotted by mixing
it with about half its volume of good
soil and adding lewt. of sulphate of
ammonia and half that amount of
superphosphate for every syds. of saw-
dust. Mitrogen from animal sources,
such as dried blood, is said to be better,
but it is not so easy to obtain. Effec-
tive rotting will depend on keeping
the heap moist, but not wet, and well
aerated. However, it is possible to
use unrotted sawdust as a mulch, and
later to incorporate it in the soil,
without any ill-effects if certain
measures are taken. Most harmful
effects of sawdust on the soil are due
to the fact that soil micro-organisms
which attack the more readily avail-
able substances in sawdust require
nitrogen and phosphate from other
sources, generally from the soil, to
the detriment of any crop growing on
it. When used as a mulch, the
harmful effects of sawdust will be
very slight, but if it is incorporated
in the soil the effect is considerable,
even with sawdust which has been in
heaps long exposed to the weather.
This effect can be offset by heavier
applications of fertiliser to the sub-
sequent crop. However, if time can
be allowed for the first rapid decom-
position to take place and the soil
kept moderately moist, there should
be sufficient residual fertiliser after a
lettuce, crop to cope with a fairly
large addition of sawdust.
* * * *
Some details of the sli dentships for
post-graduate training being offered
by the Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organisation ?
C.5.1.R.0. is offering a number of
studentships to university honors
graduates. The studentships present
opportunities for post-graduate train-
ing both overseas or in Australia in
a wide field of physical and biological
sciences. Up to nine overseas travel-
ling studentships and up to 15 Aus-
tralian studentships are available, and
additional awards may be made
in subjects of special interest
to C.5.1.R.0. Each studentship
will be tenable for two years,
and positions may be available
in C.5.1.R.0. for appointees at the
conclusion of training. For training
in the United Kingdom students will
be given a living allowance of £ASSO
per annum. For training in Australia
the living allowance will be £ASOO it
living at home or £A6OO if living away
from home. A special allowance will
be made for married students in the
United Kingdom, but not in Australia.
C.5.1.R.0. will also pay reasonable
fares and fees. Full particulars may
be obtained from the secretary,
Industrial and Physical Sciences,
C.5.1.R.0., 314 Albert-street, East
Melbourne. Applications close on
December 24, 1952,
Brief Answers
L.M.S.: Write Tyrrell’s Bookshop,
281 George-street, Sydney D.P.:
Under the internationally accepted
standard pitch, top C has a frequency
of 523.3 vibrations per second, while
middle C has a frequency of 261.65
vibrations per second. This corres-
ponds to the standard of A equals
440 deg. At various times, and m
different countries, top C has varied
between 517 and 550 vibrations. To
produce any given note, the vocal
chords of a singer would have to
vibrate at the same rate as would the
strings of a piano or those of d violin,
harp or other such instrument in
producing the same note.... J.C ' A
gazette on sharemarket trading rS
published by the Stock Exchanges of
all capital cities; arrangements have
been made with a broker for a Sydney
Gazette to be forwarded you. An
investment journal, “The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,” is published by The
Bulletin. Annual subscription rate
is 225. 6d A. 8.; (1) The recipient
of an unstamped receipt may himself
take action to prosecute the giver of
such receipt— vide section 13 of the
N.S.W. Stamp Duties Act. (2) He
may inform the Stamp Office, in
which case his appearance- in court
will be necessary if court action fol-
lows. (3) If the giver of the un-
stamped receipt so elects, the com-
missioner may, without taking legal
action, impose and receive the
penalty provided by section 92 of the
Act A.M.: Norman Lindsay was
born at Creswick (Vic.) on February
23, 1879 F.J.8.5.: Permanganate
of potash is not usually added to
water for clarification purposes,
although a minute amount is some-
times added where it is necessary to
oxidise organic matter. It is sug-
gested that a |gal. sample of the water
be sent to the Department of Public
Health, Macquarie-street, Sydney, for
analysis and advice as to treatment.
P.G.T.: Write Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney... .A.J.D.: Write Department of
Agriculture, Farrer-place, Sydney
J.M.8.: Macnell’s Valiant Occasions
(covering all the main naval actions
of World War II) is now available
in Australian bookshops... .K.L.E.:
Pioneering Your Cacti by E. Lamb
(ss. 9d.), Cactus-growing for Begin-
ners by Vera Higgins and H. T.
MarrabJe (7s. 6d.), and Cacti by A.
BertTMd and A. Guillaumin (255.
6d.), obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street,
bydney H.A.J.: Write secretary,
R<pyal Australian Historical Society,
History House, 8 Young-street, Syd-
ney.. . .E.M.A.: Dictionnaire de la
Noblesse Contentant les Genealogies.
Ithstoire et la Chronologic des
Nobl f’ s de France (1770-
1786), Dubbuisson’s Armorial des
Principales Maisons et Families du
Royaume (1757), and Armorial
General de la France (1738-1768)
all available Public Library of N. S.
Wales, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
N.C.: Who could get a coherent
story out of Scots playing football
with Italians? H.G.8.: Too much
talk.... W.C.: Never did deus hop
more nimbly out of machina....
A.M.M.: You could always set up
shop as an arranger-of-coincidences
for radio-script-writers H. V. W.:
Looks like “Tim’s Payoff” was for a
put-up job M. 8.: Afraid it’s a
bit noble for u5....D.A.: As you
say, “It was all pretty pointless.”
M.B.: Afraid “What to Make
of Bill” is not a hearty enough laugh.
J.A.: Still can’t see the point,
but some other paper might....
R.M.E.: When the villain has to be
blinded /and drowned by the author,
the hero hardly stands out, does he?
J.M.: Afraid this will diminish
even further “Stewart Thorburn’s
Chance of Fame” J.G.: Your
atmospheric stage-lighting follows
your actor into the street —the first
case we’ve heard of a limelight that
loved the actor P. de B.; As you
say, “Easy Come, Easy Go” J.T.:
“The Explanation” was “Lost in the
Wilderness” J.D.M.: Your philo-
sophical anarchist is still talking his
head off in the basket B.B.:
Where did you pick up that out-
landish style of writing? ... .L.C.:
Brown-eyed Marie may have landed
her man, but she doesn’t get a
cheque from us C.G.; You paint
your characters either too bla,ck or
too white R.C.W.: You may
know all there is to know about the
sea, but you know precious little
about writing M.G.: Description
of a seven days’ jag might make good
reading at a meeting of Alcoholics
Anonymous P.S.: Sorry, not this
trip J.P.: Seldom have we met a
more gloomy lover —no wonder that
Lorna, Mabs, Helen, Pat, Joan, Peggy,
Muriel and the rest turned him down.
... .Bellerive: A fine tribute: —
.... W.F.: We note that you are still
writing about the good old days on
a typewriter that must be as old as
the days you write about J.C.:
We have never met a Sydney gang-
ster in the flesh, but we are certain
that none of the breed is like yours.
.. ..R.R.M.: It had a beginning, but
little else... .A.C.J.: The number of
doctors in fiction who are required
to operate upon their wives’ lovers
must run into several millions
T.J.C.: It must be a strange camp-
fire around which such yarns as yours
are told S.K.: A sentimental trifle.
P.T.B.: The only way to handle
that theme is to do it as a satire.
C.S.G.: No, we never “read
manuscripts while you wait.” Submit
your story in the usual way—that is.
addressed to the Editor, with a
stamped and addressed envelope for
return in case of rejection H.J.:
What gave you the idea that we are
in the market for religious tracts?
MISS NETA PELHAM.
In fond remembrance of Miss Neta Pel-
ham, who departed life during 1949 in her
nineties. Known to be the oldest living
actress in Australia at the old Players and
Playgoers’ Association, Melbourne. I’d
the pleasure to hear the grand old lady
of the stage in her mid-eighties render a
stirring recitation from the platform of
the Hall of Memories, Nicholas Building,
Melbourne.
In her eighties she could
Render a fine recitation.
And was beloved by the members
Of the Playgoers’ Association.
A player who’d shone
In dead and gone days.
She was among the foremost
In great speaking plays.
In her sere old age
She retained the will
And power to recite
With dramatic skill.


is
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
GM-
-sTt*
BOH®
2?
(M*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: S.PO. Box 3583.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • S.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Box 758 K, BRISBANE
• S.P.O Box 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK
STATION AGENTS
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
I -•
CkleepJ
BLOWFLY DRESSING
I CONCENTRATE EMULSION
MIXES EASILY WITH WATER
ol?'^
"MlIBP"
THE TOP LINE SHEEP BLOWFLY DRESSING
Manufactured by Australia's largest producers of DDT.
TAUBMAN’S CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Steely Wool
“Agric”; Areas in Queens-
land in which copper-deficiency
occurs in sheep have now been
clearly defined, and scientists
are endeavoring to evolve easily-
applied corrective treatment.
J. M. Harvey, M.Sc., told the
Australian Chemical Institute
that it was hoped to administer,
by injection, a dose of copper
sufficient to meet the animal’s
copper requirements for at least
three months.
“Straight” (or “steely”) wool
was used as the index of copper-
deficiency in sheep-raising areas,
said Harvey, and this was con-
firmed both by blood and liver
analyses. Three main localities
—parts of the north-west, south-
east and west—accounted for at
least 90 per cent, of the “steely”
wool produced in the State, and
even in these areas there was a
wide seasonal variation in the
incidence of copper-deficiency.
Commenting on suggested
remedial measures, Harvey said
drenching involved mustering
and handling stock at least
weekly, and the use of a lick
containing copper had failed
under field conditions, as there
was always a proportion of the
stock which would not take the
lick and another which took too
much of it. Addition of soluble
copper-salt to the drinking
water was satisfactory where
stock received their water-supply
from concrete or “proofed”
iron troughs, and where the
water was low in carbonate or
bicarbonate, but in most of the
copper-deficient areas of the
State sheep watered from bore
drains, which water was almost
invariably high in copper-pre-
cipitating constituents.
Addition of copper to the
ration was practicable only
where supplementary feeding
was used regularly, such as in
dairying.. Topdressing the soil
with a copper-salt was costly,
and, on alkaline soils, copper
became fixed in the soil in a
form which was often unavail-
able to the plant. In co-
operation with the senior
veterinary pathologist at the
Yeerongpilly animal health
station (A. K. Sutherland),
Harvey is now investigating a
method of field injection. It is
hoped to administer a dose
sufficient to meet the sheep’s
copper requirements for at least
three months.
Grain Sorghum
“Moyhu”: Grain sorghum is
easy to grow. The Crop is hardy
and yields well in districts with
a moderate summer rainfall. It
is particularly suited to north-
western N.S.W,
Grain sorghum can be grown
as soon as the frosts are over
and up to the end of December.
Crops to be harvested with the
header are best sown not later
than about the end of November
The grain out more
c ] ean f v and a br ;„ htpr an d
than bar
~ ■ , g , ,
1 d ln late au tumn and early
wmter -
For grazing-off in the pad-
dock sow in late December, But
the best time to sow in most
districts is from the end of
October to the end of November.
Wheatland Miln nav Mila and
white . grained H ’egari are good
ieti Sow w s heatknd Milo
~ , combine or ma : 7e dHII
™ tb tbe c ° mbme or maize-drill
m J_ ows a P ait , using 31b. or
seeb P er acre -
Some growers prefer sowing
through every run of the seed-
drill, but row-sowing allows cul-
tivation between the rows, and
will mean the difference between
success and failure in a dry sea-
son. Dust the seed with copper
carbonate or an organic mer-
curial dust at the rate of 2oz. per
bushel as a deterrent to kernel-
smut.
River Redgutn
tt Breck”: The old saying
The redgums follow the
rivers” will hold good till the
end of time. Loving the waters
that lave their roots, the tree’s
seed-millions are dropped into
them. Washed far and wide
over vast areas, they spring to
life in the fertile silt.
The river-redgum (E. camal-
dulensis) renders so many ser-
vices that too many can’t be
planted where they will grow.
While the gum likes the alluvial
flats and river-banks, it also
thrives well on other soils of
good depth. In N.S.W. irriga-
tion areas it has proved itself
the most saline-tolerant of all
the eucalypts.
A rapid grower, it makes a
fine shade-tree in stock pad-
docks. Numbers planted fairly
closely form ideal windbreaks
if a small densely-foliaged
species is planted in front of
them to cut off ground draughts.
River-redgum timber is one
of Australia’s best. It is dense,
durable and suitable for
sleepers, fences and farm build-
ings. Wood of trees cut before
they have matured needs treat-
ing with a preservative.
It is a splendid honey species.
Flowering for almost 12 months
of the year, it produces honey
of fine flavor.
Old Tomato Plants
“E.H.M.”: Very old even
flowering tomato - plants a
couple of feet high can be trans-
planted, even under unfavorable
conditions.
After getting them out of the
bed, strip all foliage except the
growing tip, to minimise
evaporation. Stand the plants in
water for 24 hours so they can
absorb the maximum amount of
moisture.
Plant in the cool of evening,
but not vertically. Make a
trench about the length of the
plant, water well and lay the
plant in, leaving about 2in.
above the ground. Fill in the
trench and water every evening.
In a few days all that length
of stalk underground will have
made adventitious roots, giving
the plant a larger feeding-area.
Progeny-testing
“Outback”: Scientists seem
to be shifting their ground re-
garding the efficiency of pro-
geny-testing. Dr. F. H. W.
Morley, Wool Research Labora-
tory, Trangie (N.S.W.), who re-
cently visited the U.S.A., says
mass selection has the virtues of
obviating inbreeding and avoid-
ing much of the cost associated
with progeny-testing.
In his opinion progeny-test-
ing, with wide use of progeny-
tested sires, is unlikely to be the
best way to flock improvement.
Australian Merino breeders, he
says, have a distinct advantage
over breeders of most other
stock, inasmuch as the most im-
portant economic characters can
be measured on both sexes prior
to breeding age. Further, the
repeatability and heritability of
these characters appeared suffi-
ciently high for one record to
provide a good indication of
subsequent records and of the
breeding value of an animal. In
these circumstances it appeared
that progeny-testing systems
were unlikely to increase the
potential rate of progress greatly
in comparison with other aids
to selection.
Nevertheless, the fact that
most breeding units were large
enough to provide scope and
elasticity for application of
techniques such as artificial in-
semination suggested that use of
progeny-tested sires might still
be of value.
If a breeder was prepared to
undertake systematic progeny-
testing and the wide use of
progeny-tested sires, it seemed
safe to recommend that he mate
about half his ewes to proven
sires and use the remaining
ewes for the best selection of
young rams. In times of staff
shortages it was worth remem-
bering, however, that mass
selection would provide most of
the returns available from more
complex systems.
Phalaris for Pastures
“Myrrhee”; Although a
tough, persistent grass once it’s
established, phalaris is rather
temperamental in its early
stages. Tests at Rutherglen
Research Station (Vic.) indicate
that its successful establishment
“PLEASE, Rusty—only ONE drink and I'll come
straight ’ome."
in 20in. to 25in. rainfall country
in Victoria can best be achieved
by fallowing in spring and
sowing in autumn. Best sowing-
rate is lib. of phalaris with 21b.
of sub.-clover.
Autumn cultivation and im-
mediate sowing are risky in that
competition from annual grasses
and weeds is often too severe
for the young stand. Spring
sowing is risky, also, summer
rainfall being insufficient in all
but exceptional seasons to
ensure survival of the seedlings.
In its first season careful graz-
ing is essential, but once estab-
lished the stand will take a lot
of punishment. At Rutherglen
it has survived the severest
droughts, coming away readily
after autumn rains. For a bal-
anced sward under Rutherglen
conditions sub.-clover ideally
complements the grass, provided
the clover is sown at the same
time. If sown earlier its vigor-
ous growth tends to retard
development of the phalaris.
Old Stud Registered
“R.N.”: Wooriwyrite, Terang,
a 95-years-old Victorian Merino
stud which has a direct link
with Macarthur’s first sheep, is
now in the Australian Merino
Flock Register.
Wooriwyrite is owned by the
estate of the late J. R. Morri-
son. The stud was founded in
1857 by T. Shaw, who bought
400 ewes from Ercildoune,
Kyneton (Vic.). Simultaneously
he selected 100 ewes from the
Wooriwyrite general flock con-
taining Tasmanian and Camden
blood and a small flock of
Camden ewes and rams.
Shaw was regarded as the
greatest sheepmaster in Victoria
during the first 40 years of the
State’s Merino history.
Bots in Horses
“Sarina”: During spring and
early summer bot-grubs pass out
of the horse with the dung, bent
on developing into adult bot-
flies and propagating their kind.
Most nags collect a few bots,
and carry them in their stomachs
until the parasites decide to
move. When hundreds infest the
stomach the victim becomes as
poor as a crow.
For eradicating hots nothing
can rival carbon bisulphide. It
is also certain death to worms.
The only disadvantages with it
are that you’ll very likely be
blown to blazes or incinerated
if you smoke while using it and
that it is likely to have an irritat-
ing effect on the horse’s gullet if
given in drench form.
Three or four balls, each con-
taining a dessertspoonful of
carbon bisulphide and filled up
with genuine raw linseed-oil,
given at intervals of two hours,
will do the job.
If drenching, give six doses of
carbon at two-hourly intervals,
making a drench with a teaspoon-
and-a-half of carbon (for a
heavy draught), half-teaspoon
for a pony, well blended with
two tablespoons of raw linseed-
oil and | cup of milk.
The horse should be fasted
during treatment and for 12
hours before, damped feed being
given an hour or two after the
last dose. When freed of bots,
many so-called “bad-doers” put
on condition very rapidly. They
deserve good feed and a spell.
Care of Woodwork
“H.G.H.”: At least a couple
of applications a year of raw
linseed-oil—either painted or
rubbed on with a saturated rag
—should be given all tool-
handles of wood. Unpainted
woodwork on machinery should
be treated likewise, although
boiled linseed-oil, as a second
coat, would better protect the
woodwork on machinery ex-
posed to the weather, as it forms
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Some new spots have appeared on both northern and
southern solar hemispheres. The southern ones should have
reached normal active position about mid-November, when
further rain should be reported in eastern Australia.
About now a wave of heat is due, followed shortly by
some widespread rains which may cause floods in areas
recently drought-stricken, on the North Coast of Queensland,
in the Territory, in northern Western Australia and also in
Tasmania.


RABBITS
CAN'T RESIST
NEW DECOY
Any poison will kill the “Bunny” IF
you can get him to take it. It is the
DECOY that counts. Years of never-
ending research and a total of 980
experiments have produced a Rabbit
Decoy that the “Bunny” won’t re-
sist. and can’t resist. Results have
proved it. Testimonials from grate-
ful and satisfied users all over Aus-
tralia have proved it.
“Lurex” Lures are supplied to the
Dept, of Lands (Queensland Govern-
ment), proof again that “LUREX”
IS BEST.
NOW! We Offer You
“LUREX 980”
a New, better “Lurex” with the new
secret ingredient, a substance in-
vented by nature herself.
Now you can trick Mr. Rabbit no
matter what bait you use—oats,
apples, thistle roots —it’s all the
same if you add a few drops of
“LUREX 980” to every batch.
“LUREX” has always been the only
Rabbit Lure ever sold under Money
Back Guarantee. Summer or winter,
green or dry feed, “LUREX 980”
NEVER FAILS.
DON’T waste time and money on
old-fashioned “Decoys”—
Send right now for
“LUREX 980”
I Bottle sufficient for thousands
of baits—22/6, Post Free.
“LUREX” Fox and Dingo Lure,
21/6.
“L.L.33”—World’s fastest Dingo
Poison, kills within 10 yards after
Fox or Dingo takes bait——
72/6 for 500 Baits.
MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES
(Aust.)
BOX 844, G.P.0., Sydney
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
fds
hyceia dissolvenator
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
f
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SAHITAKY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established S 2 years.
for free illustrated parnnhlpt
DISTRIBUTORS;'” “
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building. Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty„ Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: B. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St- Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby A Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND : Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lorne Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31 /6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under lib.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
r*
THE 4 OVEN
AGA
10 YEARS’ GUARANTEE
COOKER
The British-built Ago Is
guaranteed for 10 years
against faulty materials
or workmanship.
A SPECIAL
OVEN FOR EVERY
COOKING PURPOSE
It’s sheer heaven to cook with a
four-oven Aga! In addition to three
hotplates, you have a Roasting oven
big enough to take your Christmas
turkey; a Baking oven to bake cakes
and bread; a Simmering oven for
slow, economical, flavoursome cook-
ing such as soups and casseroles;
and a Warming oven where food
waits unspoilt, hour after hour.
Each Aga oven automatically main-
tains correct temperature, and since
the Aga never goes out it’s always
"just right” for cooking.
P.S. Thermostatic control
guarantees fuel economy!
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N. 2. in 1841)
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR THE AGA COOKER
AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES ______ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ 113 Grenfell Street. Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIA _ MALLOCH BROS, Ltd., Pert#
SB
Blue Mountains-a charming property
Approximately 60 miles from Sydney
A COMPACT EXCLUSIVE HOME IN AN EXOTIC
GARDEN AND BUSHLAND SETTING 3 MINUTES’
WALK TO STATION
The Gardens and Orchard are beautifully laid out and
feature many valuable trees and shrubs, lovely bushland
paths and barbecue.
Other features are Tennis and Badminton Courts and a
delightful Swimming Pool fed from a natural spring.
This is an ideal mountain retreat suitable as a Permanent
or Holiday Home with every modern amenity and designed
for gracious living.
Land area 121 acres
The Price, £BB5O, is considerably less than cost.
For inspections and brochure apply
L. J. HOOKER LIMITED,
98 Pitt Street, Sydney. BW 8401 (10 lines),
or Owner, XM 1877.
a skin on drying which keeps
out dampness. Oil toughens,
prevents splitting, and makes
wood more supple.
Kerosene, as a first dressing,
is recommended on all hickory
and ash handles, as it is more
penetrating than lins'eed - oil,
which can be used in subsequent
dressings, and the more given the
better for the preservation of
the wood. Indeed, axe-handles
should be so treated weeks
before being brought into use.
Bore a small hole with a iin,
bit 6in, downwards in the axe-
handle, then fill with kerosene,
cork, and stand in a vertical
position for a week or so. Kero-
sene the whole of the handle at
the same time, and replenish the
supply in the hole frequently
during that period.
As hickory and ash are valu-
able and useful woods, save all
broken axe-handles and old
spokes, which cannot be bettered
for use in renewing handles for
hammers, tomahawks, * chisels,
etc. Don’t neglect the oiling of
the handles of these tools. Ex-
posure to rain and sunshine will
eventually cause any wood to
split and perish, and use of the
oils mentioned prevents this.
Used engine-oil is also a useful
preservative of wood.
The Farm Bathheater
After eight or nine
years’ use a water-heater usually
develops leaks around the bottom
edge or up in the firebox. These
leaks are often hard to repair,
as the iron has been burned,
but, as heaters are now costly,
an attempt to keep an old one
functioning is worth while.
First drain the heater, take it
down and carefully and thor-
oughly clean a space around the
hole with an old knife and
sandpaper. Over the hole sweat
on a patch of brass sheeting or
galvanised tin.
You’ll probably scrape an
extra hole or two, but it is most
essential that that space around
the hole or holes be clean and
bright, otherwise the solder won’t
stick. Tin the space first, and
then use an extra-heavy solder-
ing-iron to sweat on the patch.
My own heater, which had
been repaired on several occa-
sions over a period of 15 years,
broke down badly about eight
months ago and was considered
by a professional tinsmith as
being beyond repair. I patched
several holes, then placed a
cylinder of asbestos-sheeting
inside the firebox to fit snugly
around the interior for about 9in.
upwards. Another similar-sized
cylinder of galvanised-iron was
then pushed up, thus clamping
the asbestos securely to the sides
of the firebox. These cylinders
were only inserted as a final
check to a small leak which
defied all attempts to stop it. The
job took 12} hours, and almost
exhausted my patience, but the
heater has been constantly in
use ever since, and now does not
leak.
Vine Vegetables
“Plane Creek”: Vine-vege-
tables don’t progress in hot
weather unless they get plenty
of moisture. Light, sandy soils
are poor moisture-holders, and
useless for summer cropping
unless irrigated or constantly
v -tered. Black soils hold mois-
ture well, so, do soils that have
been recently green-manured.
Even weeds or grasses, provided
they are not in seed, make fair
humus when buried.
Where possible, dry grass or
twiggy branches should be scat-
tered around vegetable vines.
Spare no effort to keep the vines
off the naked ground.
Don’t apply great thicknesses
of stable-manure as a mulch.
Moderate rain won’t pass
through it, but a light mulch is
a fine moisture-saver, and won’t
hold back rainwater.
Vine crops dote on nitro-
genous manures with a measure
of potassic fertiliser. Steady
feeding through the fruiting sea-
son means heavy yields and well-
developed fruits.
For Piglets
“Mr.’'’: Anaemia in piglets
can be prevented by giving
suckers a weekly dose of pow-
dered sulphate of iron, just suffi-
cient to cover a threepenny-
piece each. Dosing the sow
won’t prevent anaemia in her
litter.
Another method is to swab
the sow’s udder daily with this
mixture: 71b. of sulphate of
iron, 2ioz. of sulphate of cop-
per, lib. of sugar in three quarts
of water. There’ll be little
danger of anaemia if a shovelful
of clean, fresh earth is thrown
into the pen daily, and the sow
and her litter are let out on pas-
ture as soon as possible.
Kr ilium
“Silentio”: Concerning
krilium as a soil-conditioner,
the Monsanto Chemical Com-
pany of St. Louis (U.S.A.)
recently demonstrated the stuff
to scientists and agricultural
officials at the Rural Bank head-
quarters in Sydney. The demon-
strator claimed it could convert
useless red clay into a crumbly
soil, improve fertility and help
check soil-erosion. There’s a
rumor it might be manufactured
this side of the Pacific,
Orchard Jobs
“My”: Spray canning-peaches
with D.D.T. emulsion, 0.1 per
cent, in late November for
Oriental fruit-moth. Spray pears
and apples with D.D.T. 0.1 per
cent, plus 31b. of lead arsenate
powder to lOOgal. of water for
codlin and light-brown apple-
moths.
Where black-spot is show-
ing on apples, include lime
sulphur, \\ gal., in the above
spray. For the same disease on
pears use a Bordeaux spray,
2:2:100. For leaf-slug on
cherries, plums, pears and
quinces spray with D.D.T. 0.1
per cent.
For snails on citrus combine
11b. of calcium arsenate and
161 b. of bran with enough water
to make a crumbly mixture, and
spread it beneath the trees in the
cool of evening.
Hints for the Farm
“C.H.”: If an orange fails to
bear it is probably a seedling
tree. Try shock treatment. Cut
the tap-root off at from 2ft. 6in.
to 3ft. down, taking care not to
injure other roots. If the job
is done in August, just before
the tree blossoms, you should
have fruit the next season.
“Sundowner”: Keep a record
of poultry mortality at all stages
from day-olds onward. This
enables losses through disease to
be computed. Conclusions may
be drawn as follows: If loss is
above average, environment —
sanitation, housing and feeding
—is at fault. Abnormal losses
which are obviously not due to
faulty environment should be
investigated by an expert.
“Ann”: When handling fowls
a slight finger-pressure on the
right spot beneath the “chin”
will prevent squawking without
hurting the bird. A squawking
fowl will make others nervous.
“C.A.A.”: A hay-knife may
be readily adapted for trimming
drains by boring two £in. holes
about an inch from the back of
the knife and Ift. apart. Bolt
on a handle about sft. long.
“B.”: Milking records are a
good guide to herd improve-
ment. If output of each cow is
tabbed daily the low-producers
can be weeded-out. Off condi-
tions in health are noticed
quickly. Feeding of balanced
rations, better winter-feeding and
maintained supply throughout
the year can also result. Grade
cows with records may sell at
from 25 p.c. to 50 p.c. more than
those without records. Bulls
from dams showing good milk-
and butterfat-production are
always in demand.
“My”: Treat dermatitis
(lumpy wool) in sheep by dipping
in a solution of 11b. of bluestone
(or zinc sulphate) to 50gal. of
water. Bad cases should be kept
handy and dipped a second or
third time at intervals of a
month. Advanced cases should
be destroyed.
“Sarina”: Here in North
Queensland prevention of bac-
terial and virus diseases in
tomatoes is ensured by spraying
the seedlings in the bed with a
2-3-40 Bordeaux mixture every
few days. Follow up by spray-
ing the tomato-plants every week
or 10 days with a 4-4-40 Bor-
deaux mixture. Weed - out
diseased plants and burn them
as soon as noticed. Keep the
soil well cultivated to promote
healthy growth.
“Will C”: When hand-feed-
ing dry roughage to milking
cows sprinkle it freely with water
laced with a little molasses. This
helps digestion and assimilation.
“Cam”; Lime is beneficial on
most heavy clay soils. It makes
them more friable and open, and
has a flocculating action, caus-
ing small particles of clay to
flocculate together into larger
particles, resulting in an im-
proved physical texture.
“Plane Creek”: Some of the
most nutritious grasses are worth
very little where protein is con-
cerned if allowed to reach
maturity. Since protein is the
main need of milch-cows, it
looks as though rotational graz-
ing has a lot over uncontrolled
grazing.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Yes, We Have No Bananas
I lately read an advertisement issued by
the Banana-growers’ Association urging
southerners to eat more of their product.
The health-giving properties of the fruit
were stressed ; its great food-value, etc.
Seeing some likely-looking bananas for
sale I bought a pound. They sell them
by weight down here, and for three shil-
lings I received four pieces of fruit.
Ninepence for one banana is a bit hot,
and I can assure the Growers’ Association
that, instead of a feeling of rude health
coming on, I broke out into a rash.
On the far North Coast of N.S.W.
some years ago an outbreak of bunchy-
top wiped out whole plantations in the
Mullumbimby area. Black wallabies,
bunchy-top and all the rest of the pests
will prove as nought compared with the
wog Exorbitantus bananas which, if not
checked, will settle the industry.— Ceg
(Vic.).
Home Price for Wheat
Spruikers for wheatgrowers inquire
why farmers should be called on to sell
wheat locally at the cost of production
to make bread and other flour-products
for human consumption. Well, it’s time
they were given the reason, and having
got it I hope they will change the record.
The wheatgrowers’ organisations from
1932 to 1938 repeatedly asked the Com-
monwealth and State Governments to
pass a law for a home-consumption price
for wheat used in Australia as flour and
flour-products, irrespective of the price of
wheat for export. Accordingly the Wheat
Products Prices Bill was introduced and
passed by the Commonwealth and State
Parliaments in 1938. Despite a drought
that year, and poor crops, the export
price of wheat was only 2s. sd. a bushel
at ports. The Act increased the price
of wheat used for home consumption in
Australia from 2s. sd. to ss. 2d. a bushel;
an increase of over 100 per cent. As
cost of production increased the price
was raised from ss. 2d. to 10s., and it
seems will be further increased in De-
cember to about 11s. Bd.
If the growers want confirmation of
the fact that their organisations asked
for a price of ss. 2d. in 1938, let them
have a look at the printed report of the
Premiers’ Conference on wheat, held in
Sydney on August 26, 1938.
The general public must be getting very
tired of these “pressure-groups” and their
tactics. The Rural Reconstruction Com-
mission, in its tenth report, drew atten-
tion to the financial help which taxpayers
at large had afforded primary industries
( wheatgrowers in particular ) and empha-
sised that the sums involved had been a
considerable drain upon the taxable
capacity of the nation.
Primary producers generally are on a
very sweet wicket now, but let them
remember all the handouts they have had
in the past. Many creditors have bitter
memories of the Debt Adjustment Acts ;
how many of those who benefited at
others’ expense during the currency of
those Acts, and who have since “come
considerably more than good,” have gone
along to all the storekeepers and others
and made up the amounts they were
forced to write off? A few have done so,
I know, but not many.
A farmer with an overdraft today must
indeed be a rara avis.
Another thing which might be men-
tioned is our old friend the London
exchange-rate, from which primary pro-
ducers have had vast benefit. Someone
must be pdying for that 25 per cent.
These things need rubbing in now and
again to counteract the perpetual barrage
of propaganda. Any farmer who cannot
make big money with the present prices
for wheat ought to get off his farm and
stay off. There are plenty of servicemen
and others who are just clamoring for a
chance to have a crack at farming but
can’t get the land. — Harry the Horse
(Vic.).
Level Crossings
Several level-crossing accidents have
occurred in Brisbane suburbs recently,
and many suggestions are being con-
tributed to the Press on preventives, such
as large written warnings on the road,
swinging arm-signals, etc.
No one has mentioned so far that the
safest way to stop a motorist is to have
a gate across the road. The opposition
to this would be the expense in employ-
ing someone to open and close the gate,
but this could be easily dispensed with
by having gates of the rise-and-fall type
worked automatically by the train when,
say, a mile from the crossing, and like-
wise when past the crossing. To make.it
doubly safe the same automatic device
could cause a bell to ring when the gate
began to lower.
The railways-versus-motorists war has
been waged for many years, each party
generally denying responsibility for any
collision at a level-crossing, but it does
seem that trains crossing vehicular roads
do so at their own risk and therefore
are liable for damage done to other
traffic. The railway slogan “Use the
Railways—You Own Them” may soon
become “We Use All Thoroughfares—We
Own Them.” This may even apply now
in Rockhampton (C.Q.), where the main
northern railway line runs down the main
street!—C. W. H. (Q.).
Merino-export Ban
It is difficult to see how Australia can
continue to impose a ban on the export
of Merino sheep and at the same time
criticise the U.S.A. for proposing to in-
crease its tariff on wool imports. Both
are domestic problems of the countries
concerned. For this reason woolgrowers
“Of course, corns on the thumb are inevitable in push-button Warfare.”
should welcome the suggestion by the
president of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association (O. McL. Falkiner) that a
speedy offer by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to assist in rehabilitating the
U.S. wool industry by relaxing the 23-
year-old ban on the export of Merinos
could offset America’s threat to increase
tariffs on wool imports.
Ealkiner pointed out that the sug-
gested prohibitive American tariff would
accelerate the expansion of the gigantic
American artificial-fibre industry and also
bring ruin to the American wool industry,
as America’s wool-production was less
than one-third of the nation’s require-
ments and there was little chance of re-
ducing the gap in the foreseeable future
without an infusion of Australian-bred
Merinos.
It would, he said, be a more practical
approach to assist American producers to
put their industry on a profitable basis
than merely protesting negatively against
raising the tariff barrier. He pointed out;
The American synthetics industry has
had the sympathy of the U.S. Govern-
ment, which would like to be as inde-
pendent as possible of overseas textile
fibres, and the use of artificial fibres
in the U.S.A. last year was so great that
per capita consumption of wool dropped
in a single year by more than 25 per
cent. Japan proposes to build up its
synthetic-materials’ industry, and this in-
sidious growth of artificial-fibre produc-
tion can be combated only by a vast ex-
pansion of wool-production.
Falkiner is associated with the world’s
biggest Merino stud, ahd, having heard a
speech in which he outlined the wool and
synthetic-fibre positions throughout the
world, this writer is satisfied that, in his
efforts to have the Merino-export ban
lifted, he is actuated by nothing but the
sincerest motives and deep interest in the
prosperity of the woolgrowing industry
of Australia. — Outback (Q.).
Recruiting Costs
A business firm spending big money on
advertising would ask its advertising
manager to set costs against results. No
such statement has been issued by the
Federal Government on the cost of
recruiting appeals. Taxpayers have no
idea of the cost per recruit; if they had
they would be staggered.
Advertising is a highly-regarded pro-
fession. Sales-appeal is largely directed
toward women and toward the protective
instinct: “Guard your health” —“Care for
your child,” etc. Appeals for recruits for
the services dwell on pride and patriotism,
dead subjects until invasion is imminent.
The other Sunday the R.A.N. put on
a show at Como Park, Melbourne, show-
ing how a naval battle is fought. The
theme was destructive, and women sensed
the risk their sons would take in a similar
battle at sea.
Let us cost the advertising to date
against results and tell the Australian
people the tragic result. And instead of
street marches and so on, tell the Services
to produce something realistic in the way
of beach-landing, preceded by flights of
paratroops and airborne infantry and
guns, with men “forcibly” billeting them-
selves upon local people. And to add
realism, there should be a simulation of
the bursting of atomic bombs in every
port at once.
The fear complex has not been tried,
nor has the mother protective instinct.
If these are properly tried and fail, God
help us. —Snips (Vic.).
Car Thieves
“Car-thieves and joyriders were again
active over the weekend.” I would like
to know the difference between a car-
thief and a joyrider. Anyone who takes
another’s car, even if only to go for a
joyride until he runs out of petrol, is a
thief, and should be punished accordingly.
With so many car-thieves, parking re-
strictions, stiff insurance premiums, high
registration fees, repair charges out of all
proportion to the amount of work done,
and all the other burdens on the car-
owner, owning a car is a curse instead
of a pleasure.— Eureka (N.S.W.).
Air Safety
The matter of parachute-and-dinghy
seats for airline passengers seems due for
another airing.
When a few thousand pounds bought a
commercial plane the argument was that
chutes at (then), about £6O were, top-
heavy expenditure; and that the occa-
sional accident happened on or near the
ground. Now that a huge skyship may
cost a million, the expense, and weight,
of silken insurance would be a negligible
addition.
Though the aeroplane itself is going
through a breathtaking metamorphosis,
its element remains as unchangeable as
the sea. And today or tomorrow, on
globe-spanning substratosphere flights, the
odd occasion is bound to occur when
“Abandon ship” is preferable to “Putting
her down.”
As for the psychological angle, surely
no seagoing fare was ever scared off by
the sight of a lifeboat, — Ybsul (N.S.W.).
Beer Prices
Take an empty soft-drink bottle back
to where you bought it and you get a
refund of 3d. Take an empty beer- or
wine-bottle back to the hotel and you’d
be laughed at. Yet cost of making a
soft-drink bottle and a beer-bottle must
be about the same. If soft-drink manu-
facturers can buy back their empties, wh
not the breweries, thus preventing wast
of bottles and reducing the price of
bottled beer by at least 2d.? —W. P. r ’.
(N.S.W.).
Australian Wines
Australian, white wipes, both still anc
sparkling, are second to none, but ar
not nearly sufficiently known in Englanc.
Cannot your winegrowers advertise mor
than they now do? Your wines hav
only to be known.
You have been forced, owing to firian
cial stress, to restrict English imports
for like reasons we want to sell you more
It is plain commonsense, that the mor
of your, wines we buy from you the les
will be your need to restrict import
from England—each of us will help th
other.
Communism spreads by talking anc
writing; spread the excellence of you
wines by similar means. —R. M. W.
(Sussex, Eng.).
Is It Silly?
Who began this silly business of sing
ing ‘'Why was he born so beautiful?’
when somebody is being honored by hi
fellows?
A few evenings ago I was at a farewel
to our bank-manager, who has by
common consent deserved his promotion
in another State. Speeches were made
eulogising his sterling qualities as a man
and for the services rendered to his
clients. All well deserved.
Then we sang “For he’s a jolly gooc
fellow,” which was also fitting. But
then someone started that silly inane ditty
“Why was he born so beautiful?” That
spoiled the function for me, and no doubt
there were others of a like mind. If its
originator can be located he should be
shot at dawn with a packsaddle.—H. J. S.
(S.A.).
Closer Settlement
Congratulations to “D.V.F.” on his
statement of the case for subdivision of
large holdings (B. 5/11 /’52). I know well
the country and conditions he describes.
Similar cases exist across the border in
South Australia, where soil, climate and
rainfall are the same.
One man owned 50,000 acres. He
wouldn’t go in for improved pastures;
“Clover only breeds footrot and belly
troubles in sheep.” He wouldn’t topdress
his land ; “I’m not working for those
phosphate companies.” He refused to
give—or sell—two acres for a school;
“Too much education is one of our
troubles today. It makes the young
people get big ideas and they won’t work
for you if you educate them.”
The day of reckoning came after his
death. The S.A. Government refused to
give the family time to find the huge sum
needed for probate on his estate ; if cash
could not be paid, then land for closer-
settlement would be accepted in its place.
Since then the family has voluntarily
sold more land to the Government, and
the area now carries over 30 prosperous
families, while the original owners have
retained sufficient land to make a big
income by up-to-date methods. In addi-
tion to carrying five times as many sheep
as formerly, the land now produces a
host of other stuff.
Many similar properties in the district
have also been cut up for closer-settle-
ment ; much additional land which was
once thought to be useless, in spite of a
rainfall of between 22in. and 26in., can
now be put under pasture, thanks to the
wonderful work of scientists in discover-
ing the part played by minor elements in
soil-fertility. Sufficient bluestone, zinc
sulphate and molybdenum to treat an acre
of ground could be put into the crown
of your hat, yet when combined with an
annual topdressing of superphosphate it
will turn sandy heath-land into pastures
capable of carrying 2-4 sheep per acre.
Unfortunately, people will persist in
looking at some well-managed, well-
improved large property, saying “Fancy
one family owning all this. It should be
cut up and half-a-dozen families put on
it.” Those properties should be left with
their present owners. The ones which
should be resumed are those where the
natural grasses are the only pasture, where
the land is starved for phosphate, and
where thousands of acres still carry a
scrub so poor that you couldn’t cut a
decent post in it—-Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.)


MAJORITY
1931-1952
Hamish Hamilton s anthology of 2 1
years of publishing: novels, non-
fiction, plays and short stories.
31/6 (post 1/8)
DIVING TO ADVENTURE
by Hans Hass
Daring adventures with harpoon
and camera actually photographed
underwater. With over 60 plates.
20/- (post lid.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
RARE AND OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS
ON
Australia and the Pacific Region
CATALOGUE No. 37 NOW AVAILABLE
Post Free on Request
GASTON C. REWARD
Antiquarian Bookseller
P.O. Box 529588, Melbourne, C.l.
sd
fsd
XMAS COMES
ONCE A MONTH
Every month a gift ... a best-selling book to read and
enjoy. A subscription to the BRITISH BOOK OF THE
MONTH CLUB makes Xmas last through the year.
Each month the BRITISH BOOK OF THE MONTH
CLUB publishes a special edition of a recent first-class
book and posts it direct to members at much below
normal price—£s 15s. worth of books for £2 ss. Books
for the next 6 months are:
WHEN YOU GIVE A SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
BRITISH BOOK OF THE MONTH CLUB
THE PAPER PALACE Robert Hading
THE MEANING OF TREASON Rebecca West
MY COUSIN RACHEL Daphne du Maurier
FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE Cecil Woodham-Smith
THE BETROTHED Alessandro Manzoni
A BREEZE OF MORNING Charles Morgan
There are optional choices . . . send for a complete
descriptive list of all books available.
Special for Members only
BOSWELL'S LONDON JOURNAL, 11/6
DRAWINGS OF LEONARDO DA VINCI .. 22/6
r.sx
a
-n
POST THIS COUPON FORM WITH REMITTANCE
The British Book of the Month Club,
G.P.O. Box 4657, Sydney.
Please send a 6 months’ subscription at £2 10 01 .
Please send a 12 months’ subscription at £5 0 0/
NAME....
ADDRESS.
Bulletin 11.52
information about him except one un-
reliable rumor that he has been im-
prisoned as a British spy—neither his
parents in Italy, of whom he was very
fond, nor his wife’s relatives in Stock-
holm have ever heard from him.
All three traitors were Communists, as
also was Pontecorvo’s wife. The most in-
teresting of the trio, because he made a
detailed confession which enables the
reader step by step to follow the develop-
ment of his mind—as far as he under-
stood himself —is Klaus Fuchs; and
Moorehead makes quite a dramatic figure
of him as we see him meeting a Russian
agent (the American traitor Harry Gold)
by a church on the road from Sante Fe
just after Fuchs had seen the first atomic-
bomb go off; meeting another Russian
agent in London —“He was to go into the
saloon-bar carrying a copy of the weekly
paper ‘Tribune,’ and take a seat on a
certain bench. His contact would carry
a red book”—then at his work in Harwell
(of which top-secret establishment Moore-
head gives a fascinating description); and
eventually, after a nightmare drive in a
car when he was reaching his decision
to confess and apparently had half a mind
to break his neck in a motor-smash, tell-
ing the whole story to Mr. William
Skardon, the secret-service investigator
who had previously looked into the affair
of William Joyce.
It is an interesting fact that Nunn May,
though he has never revealed the names
of his associates, claims to have dropped
his espionage on his return to London
from Canada, apparently having reached
the conclusion that telling the Russians
how to make atomic bombs was not
necessarily “for the benefit of mankind,”
as he says he once thought Fuchs came
much mom openly and strongly to the
I same concltnion. But the vital point that
emerge nn the book is simply that no
Comm i-i can be trusted and that all
■the'"really dangerous work is done by
■Communists who have “left” the party
■or who have no open connection with it;
this ehead says, the Communists
have . d human relations” in our
wnere one is inclined to question
Moorehead’s psychoanalysis is in his
acceptance that these men, however much
additionally motivated fay arrogance and
the power-complex, fundamentally acted
from a desire to “benefit mankind.” A
scientist who is a member of a revolu-
tionary conspiracy and who is engaged in
making the most frightful weapon of
destruction ever invented by mankind
might really be moved, in the deepest
recesses of his being, by impulses not
nearly so benevolent.
The Australian Constitution
A closely-written volume of Essays on
the Australian Constitution, by the retired
Chief Justice of the High Court, by
several leading Q.C.s who have, with him,
been intimately concerned in the con-
struction of our Constitutional case-law,
and by a number of professors of law in
Australian universities has been edited
by R. Else-Mitchell, LL.B. (Law Book Co,
of Australasia).
It was “inspired b> the recent jubilee
of the Australian Commonwealth” and
reviews the growth of Federalism in this
land over the half-century.
Opening with Sir John Latham’s “In-
terpretation of the Constitution,” the
contents cover the development of the
Commonwealth Parliament, the judicial
power, the defence power, the Common-
wealth in international affairs, and the
acute and enduring problems of Com-
monwealth and State relations, industrial,
trade and commerce, finance and taxa-
tion, and the Commonwealth’s compulsory
acquisition powers in a sovereign domain
shared with the States.
The work is brought up to date
of the latest decisions in the
capital-issues cases and will be wel-
comed by all students of Australian
politics and public administration, especi-
ally those concerned to strive for a wide-
spread revision of the Constitution in the
light of modern needs The revision of
the formidable and often conflicting series
of High Court decisions through the years
has all the imprimatur of authority to
recommend it.
Reviewed Briefly
Barbie : Kitty Barne (Dent). An excel-
lent novel for children of about 10 to 14.
Well-written and nicely-printed, it tells
the story of two children of ah English
vicar whose cousin. Barbie, a musical
prodigy, comes to live with them. The
children, including the prodigy, are re-
freshingly amiable types, and there is
excellent characterisation among the adult
population of the vicarage and village.
Young readers who are fond of music
will be interested in a wealth of informa-
tion skilfully interpolated in the text,
while those who hate their piano-lessons
will sympathise with the tone-deaf Simon
who vainly tries to play a reed-pipe of
his own construction.
sp ♦ * ♦
The Enchanted: Elizabeth Coatsworth
(Dent). This very short novel is sub-
titled “An Incredible Tale,” which de-
scribes it exactly. A young farmer, David
Ross, takes up a property on the edge
of a Maine, New England, forest which
is known, from a stream that runs through
it, as “The Enchanted.” A curious family
named Perdry are his neighbors, and what
transpires when David marries one of
their fey daughters forms the substance
of the rather juvenile fantasy.
* * * S
Federalism; an A ustralian Jubilee
Study: edited by Geoffrey Sawer
(Cheshire). A compilation from addresses
and discussions at two Jubilee seminars
on “Federalism” held by the Australian
National University. Chief features were
financial relations between Common-
wealth and States and legal conflicts over
interpretation of the Constitution. It is
not a likely best-seller; in fact, like the
companion-volume on the scientific
seminar, it hardly seems to have been
worth printing in book form. But in an
appendix to his own paper on the
“Record of Judicial Review” Professor
Sawer gives a serviceable list of leading
decisions by the High Court and the
Privy Council from 1904 onwards.
* Hs * ♦
The Estate of Man: Michael Roberts
(Faber). Michael Roberts is better
known as a poet than as a sociologist.
Here, to the problems (both immediate
and long-range) facing mankind as a
whole, he brings the broad, full vision
of a poet and philosopher. - The book
consists of an examination of all the
resources of man. The first chapters,
dealing with food, soil, forests, minerals.
etc., add little to the findings of other
Malthusian theorists, and his conclusions
as to the reservoir of intelligence avail-
able to mankind have been made before,
But what is unique is to find, in the
words of Janet Roberts’s introduction;
“physical, intellectual, mental and moral
problems... .held in one view.” The
prose, too, is clear and the statistical
tables are readily comprehensible to the
layman in any of the fields covered.
Comprehensive bibliographies to each
chapter are appended. Unfortunately,
because this is an important book,
Roberts died before its completion,
which no doubt accounts lor the some-
what destructive criticism of some sec-
tions—those parts he had completed are
positive in their suggestions as well as
negative in their implications.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 200
Across.
I—An overcrowded, underprivileged
area is to be blushing, but g°t
some shut-eye. (9)
6—Got some more shut-eye to act
with the final letter. (5)
9 Coward’s achievement or drink a
lolly. (11)
10— Spirit of eleven from Germany.
(3)
Peruse the garb and put a new
direction on the envelope. (9)
•Count real alterations. (4)
-Alastair and Yours Truly sur-
rounded by a stipendiary magis-
trate. (3)
-Country I managed. (4)
-You carry a fur which can be
employed. (6)
-Leftist backing the German. (3)
-Conjunction. (3)
-Red sun changed and reared. (6)
-Clothed 1802 years ago. (4)
—Fiddle with the conductor of the
Sydney Philharmonic. (3)
—The male is to live for the God-
dess of Youth. (4)
—Maple cots (anagram). (9)
—Cartoonist is so depressed as to
beef like beef. (3)
—Did I dispatch the soft-headed
and the soft-hearted? (11)
35 — Refuse nothing between the
medico and the steamer. (5)
36 — Bull gives a brief warning for
motorists. (91
Down.
1 — A sedate fellow mentions teams
that do not include pink ele-
phants. (10)
2 A super-seafaring-soldier is blue.
(11)
3 Girl keeps the district attorney
low with a kind of gun. (6) .
4 Artists represent an Abyssinian
vizier. (3)
5 Can be clothed, so the medico
takes two directions over fur. (9)
6 Whoever puts the spots over two
of our letters and the Spanish
plover. (8)
7 The last letter of an American
in a Netherlandish sea. (3)
8 — Act over the fortissimo shed. (4)
12—The lake is rising in the place
where a lake is a lough. (4)
14 —Military display an illustration on
a majestic chest. (5, 6)
16 —This little bounder exhibits a fit
of temper over a gourd. (10)
19 —Cloth insects in the police-force.
(9)
21—The opposite of things in poetry.
(8)
23 — A son hidden in the interior of
a Greek temple. (4)
26 —Most suitable father rose before
the international cricket-match.
(6)
30 —Oaf has 150 to do up for a fish
swallowing 50. (4)
32 —Court a number for complaints
by some phone subscribers. (3)
34 —Four ring the Bligh who once
led an English XI here. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 199


an
m
rnm.
!
SSe?
■'*. '■
1
Choice of
the People!
My
Customers
like.**
fdM^
A N
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
mi
"fr.
ft#*
■'V
I
£0
all
I*’
A
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD . . . ALL STATES
rt
