

M
'• , . ■ •, "v V . > ■ ' ’v . i"—'’. ' .
A PRODUCT OF THE
t
SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
>ELAIDB SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3731
Wednesday, July 30, 1932
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
A Heritage of the
Golden Elizabethan Age,
Middle Temple Hall
ANE of the famous sights of London
is Middle Temple Hall, which rose
in all its splendour during the age of the
first Queen Elizabeth. Situated near
Fountain Court between Fleet Street and
the Thames, this stately Elizabethan
chamber has a magnificent open hammer-
beam roof which is the best example of
its kind in Britain. Built between 1562
and 1570, it was opened by Queen Eliza-
beth I, who is reputed to have danced on
its floor. She presented the long table,
which was cut from a giant oak taken
from Windsor Forest, and in 1601 she
attended there a performance of “Twelfth
Night,” in which Shakespeare himself
took part
One of the tables on the dais was made
from the timbers of Drake’s ship, the
Golden Hind. Another feature of great
interest is the elaborate oak screen and
above it the richly-carved minstrels’
gallery, which is unrivalled for the beauty
of its workmanship. The screen was
carved in 1570, and is said to be the work
of Huguenot refugees. Its two doors
are crowned with fleur-de-lys, and on
each side are gracefully carved figures.
The pedestals of the great fluted columns
which support the gallery are sculptured
with figures of Hercules, and a rich riot
of carved decoration extends along the
whole front of the gallery. The standard
of craftsmanship throughout is so high
that the screen and gallery are renowned
everywhere among woodcarvers.
This historic hall, one of the four great
Inns of Court, is one hundred feet long
by forty-two feet wide and forty-seven feet
high. During the Second World War it
was hit five times by bombs and was
extensively damaged. It survived, how-
ever, and has now been fully restored to
its ancient glory.


earn
rsrar»i
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
’CUT HEBE AND MAID
ADAM BRUNSKILL
by THOMAS ARMSTRONG
Ranks with his “Crowthers of Bankdam,” the most
successful first novel by a British author in living memory.
The story of a conflict between two mighty men, arising out of a mining
enterprise in the Yorkshire dales of the mid-19th century, and leading
to an epic combat between the hero and his great foe. x
COLLINS IKK PUBLISHERS
The Red Page
SHINING SPIDER
Not since the last occasion of struggling
through Dostoievsky’s Crime and
Punishment has this reviewer read any-
thing so horribly fascinating as Keith C.
McKeOwn’s Australian Spiders (Angus
and Robertson); a book where in the
text as in one of the illustrations you
meet the spider face-to-face, and, with all
the goodwill in the world, cannot help
loathing what you see.
It is true there are moments of strange
charm. It is rather pleasant, if a little
eerie, to drive with Mr. McKeown by
night through the Murrumbidgee irriga-
tion-areas in New South Wales and to
see, gleaming in the headlights, the eyes
of some mysterious small creatures which
vanish as the car comes close:
From their brightness and the apparent
size of the diamond-like gleams of reflected
light the creatures give the impression of
being comparatively large, so that it is easy
to mistake them for mice or frogs. They
occur in hundreds, often in many thou-
sands, where the road is of a close-packed
yellowish clay. When the car is stopped
and a search is made for the animals they
are found to be clay-colored wolf-spiders
which have excavated their burrows in the
roadway.
Perhaps you can continue to respond
to the drama of these strange lights when
you read of the “luminous” spiders
reported to Mr. McKeown by Miss Elaine
Chauncey, of Bulliwallah, Clermont,
Queensland: creatures about the size of
a pea, which were seen as little lights
moving about the walls of a darkened
room and which Mr. McKeown thinks
may have been feeding on fireflies and
reflecting through their bodies the ghostly
“corpse-light” of their victims. One may
even hSpe, since the “triantelope” or
tarantula (Mr. McKeown accepts the
popular version of the name) is harmless
to man, to see in the bush at night gleam-
ing eyes in the torch-light which “prove
to be those of one of the big triantelopes
abroad on its night’s hunting.”
But then in broad daylight you look
down a hole in the earth and meet the
shining eyes of the funnel-web-spider ;
and the horrors come upon you thick
and fast. That monster, of course, kills
man —especially children. So, though
much less venomous and more likely to
cause only intense pain, does the redback.
The tree-dwelling funnel-web of the north
coast of N. S. Wales, ranging into Queens-
land, has been known to attack man,
and is also listed as deadly. The redback
has been known to kill and eat a mouse ;
a spider at Roma, presumed to be a red-
back, captured a snake:
In the cowshed a live black snake, a foot
long, was discovered securely entangled in
the strong web of one of the dreaded satiny-
back spiders with the red stripe. The
snake’s head had been tied to its tail with
dozens of thick silk threads; hundreds
of strands were attached to its body. The
spider had bitten the snake in several places,
drawing blood, and tenaciously clung to it
when tne snake and web were removed
from the shed. As the snake lay embedded
in the web on the wall young spiders were
attending the kill.
There is Dolomedes, “a large, long-
legged spider of a general dark-brown to
black color, frequently to be seen resting
on the surface of calm pools on the river
and creek at Audley, N. S. Wales,” which
captures tadpoles and small fish —
Dolomedes spiders in South Australia
killed fancy goldfish in a pool owned by
Mr. Alfred E. Wadey. Mr. L. Connell,
of Lismore, N. S. Wales, surprised a
Dolomedes which had slain one of his
goldfish, “not sucking the blood, as most
spiders, but actually eating all the fish.”
The Nephila spiders, hanging their big
strong webs from tree to tree in the bush,
catch birds and bats. Some observers
have doubted whether they ate such
victims, so Mrs, W. Rowan Lowry, at
Parkes, N. S. Wales, offered a Nephila a
cube of lean, juicy beef-steak to see what
would happen: Nephila ate it. Another
flesh-eater is the tree-dwelling funnel-web-
spider of the north coast, known as Atrax
formidabilis, which Mrs. Lester Watson,
of White Swamp, Old Koreelah, N. S.
Wales, observed dining on tree-frogs: on
March 5, 1948, she wrote to Mr,
McKeown:
I am sending you a parcel, the contents
of which, I think, should interest you. In
one bottle you will find an Atrax, and in the
other the funnel-web with a frog inside.
The frog had been dragged down the funnel
hind-legs first, and looked as if the spider
had made more than one meal off it. It
had by all appearance been dead for some
days, but strangely it was as fresh and
odorless as if it had just been killed. This
impressed me, because the weather has been
very hot. I guess you know what a dead
frog usually smells like! Has the spider
some way of preserving its food? »
Even the common garden-spider which
hangs its beautiful wheel-shaped web
from shrub to shrub across the garden-
path has been accused of slaying a
“tomtit” at Coogee, a superb-warbler at
Woolloomooloo and a swallow from
under the veranda of the State School,
Woongoolba, Queensland. A funnel-web
spider killed four chickens one weekend
in 1939 at a house in Chatswood, Sydney ;
Selenotypus plumipes, with a spread of five
inches (not extended), killed a chicken at
Prairie Tablelands, North Queensland,
dragged it 50ft. and tried to pull it down
its tunnel; a large trapdoor-spider at
River Bend, Texas, Queensland, provided
a climax to this series of crimes by taking
a turkey (admittedly rather a small one).
Mr. W. Lennan wrote to the Queensland
Museum; -
My son’s wife has some young turkeys
about two days old. She went to feed them
this evening, and one of them seemed
fastened to the ground by the leg and
could not get loose. She caught hold of
the turkey and she saw that its leg seemed
to be bogged in something; she gave it a
pull The turkey’s foot had what
appeared to be tooth-marks on it, and its
leg, just above the foot, was skinned in
one place and was bleeding. My daughter-
in-law really believed that something down
the hole had the turkey by the foot, and
she thought it was a snake. It is all very
strange to me. I have lived in the bush
all my life, and I have never seen or heard
of anything like this. The lid was shut
when the turkey was found, and the leg
was dpwn its full length.
As a naturalist Mr. McKeown does his
best to be fond of these demonic assas-
sins, noting the handsome gloss of the
garden-spider and the delicate pattern
of its web, the striking decorations Nature
has painted on the St. Andrew’s Cross
spider, the female huntsman-spider in
“an exquisite picture of spider mater-
nity” as she broods her spiderlings, and
the dewdrop brilliance of the little
Argyodina, which lives like a “jackal” in
the web of the mighty bird-catching
Nephila; but even when trying to “put
natural prejudice aside” he finds the
funnel-web “sinister and repulsive” ; and
when he finds a scorpion under a stone
he feels a very natural impulse hastily to
put the lid on it again.
In his introduction he examines some
of the explanations which have been
offered for the detestation of spiders and
their kin. Theodore Savory has suggested
that what we really dislike is not so much
the spider as its “sudden running and
rapidity of motion” ; but Mr. McKeown
points out that a spider is just as alarm-
ing when at rest as in motion.
There is an obvious excuse, of course,
for the human male to dislike the tribe,
since the female spider has attained a
fearful dominance over the male —the
lady tailed-spider, observed by Edith
Coleman, is 120-160 times the weight
of her husband —and usually eats
him before, during or after the matri-
monial embrace: nature has thoughtfully
arranged that the female funnel-web shall
go into a “trance” while the husband
salutes her (gripping her poison-fangs and
bending them outwards for an extra pre-
caution), but she very often comes out
of the trance too soon for him to get
away. Indeed, one notes with a certain
alarm that most of Mr. McKeown’s
correspondents on spider-lore seem to be
women . . , but few women really love
spiders.
The Freudians would say, of course,
that we dislike spiders simply because they
threaten our own lives ; directly when the
funnel-web rears up like a demented cray-
fish to strike at us, and by implication
when some other small monster devours
a bird or a frog. But then the Freudians
may not be right: a tiger, which also
threatens human life, does not arouse the
peculiar horror of the spider: and this
reviewer clings to a notion, picked up in
part from Gerald Heard, that the worst
of the spiders have somehow got perverted
in the course of evolution; the principle
of destruction, necessary to all creatures
that must eat to live, has run amuck in
them. They are genuinely, in their small
way, monsters.
About the only species that really seems
to have any charm is that of the little
jumping-spiders, which, when mating,
instead of telephoning along the lady’s
web and creeping forward in nervous fits
and starts, always with the lifeline ready
to drop to the ground, as most of the
J _
wretched males have to do, go in for a
pretty little dance of love ; the husband
having, apparently, quite a good chance
of not being eaten afterwards. A descrip-
tion from Mrs. Lowry:—•
# Now in desperation he held his head
high, the better to watch ihc lady, and to
Jfi Q he „ r . see hi l handsome frons, which was
ot a glowing henna tone. Again he began
his leaping dance, now simultaneously rais-
ing his abdomen aloft and mincing about
with his rear half held in this extraordinary
SaS"oflhe d ‘ 3etoed'“hbTentirS
and he fled for his life. Time dragged by
slowly, but they now kept each to their
own demesne in the glass prison, apparently
indifferent to each other’s presence until a
chance encounter began the affair all over
again. Once more the little male leaped
and danced in frenzy. As if by mutual
consent they both descended to the dancing-
floor, and, as if taking their cue on
entering a stage from opposite wings, they
approached—he leaping and rocking from
side to side, displaying first one gartered
leg and then the other.... She also entereu
the dance, raising her abdomen and hind-
legs aloft and swaying gently from side to
side. The whole amazing scene as these
two atoms stepped about, back and forth,
resembled some scene set upon a miniature
dancing-floor.
One should note, too, in fairness to
spiders as well as to the author, that the
book contains a thousand-and-one harm-
less curiosities besides its horrors, and
for the amateur nature-lover will crowd
the bush with a world he may never have
known existed
rp, • , c ~ ,
is the leaf-spider, who some-
times performs an engineering miracle by
hauling-up a discarded snail-shell to live
in; also Sometimes he lives in a bit of
newspaper—which newspaper Mr. Me-
Keown does not specify. There is a
n early-blind spider which inhabits caves
and lives on blind crickets ; a spider
which uses the same flvine-mechanism as
S nhTn foil llymg-mecnamsm as
gP.-ghyfr"*** th , e “agn.hcent-sp.der,
Ihe o Uch i
1 moths, which is
bought to emit a scent like ( that of a
female moth to lure male moths to their
doom, a spider which carr.es a net and
throws it over .ts victims ; an assassin
oi ants, whtcti makes a trap on a tiec-
trunk and then waves its forelegs to
attract attention, apparently in imitation
of an ants antennae; trapdoor-spiders
which make an additional branch-passag.,
complete with lid, where they can hide
from dangerous intruders; male spiders
which keep harems of immature females
imprisoned in silken tents, and olheis
which have been observed to legrope their
intended brides to the ground (one is
glad to see the male getting a little of
his own back for once, but he is probably
eaten when he releases his captive) ...
There are such interesting facts as that
only three of Australia’s 1500 species of
spiders have been proved deadly to man ;
that the garden-spider will make her guy-
ropes up to 40ft. long; that some devoted
soul in England counted 2,250,000 spiders
in one acre of ground ; that many birds
use cobwebs extensively to make silken
cradles for their young; that some
spiders, like ants and Mr. Inigo Jones,
can foretell the weather; that baby scor-
pions are born alive, and go riding on
their mother’s back . . . But then, to
give you the horrors again, there are
the ticks, classed as arachnids with the
spiders and the scorpions, which have
killed more people in Australia (again,
mostly children) than the spiders; and if
there is one paragraph which finally cap-
tures the spirit of the book as a whole
it is this:
In north-western New South Wales, where
large numbers of cypress-pines have been
destroyed by ringbarking or other causes
and stand dead in serried ranks with the
bark loose but still clinging to their shrunken
trunks, a species of huntsman-spider is
present in incredible numbers. Each tree
provides shelter for scores of the creatures,
males and females, solitary and perhaps as
yet unwed, together with the mothers of
families and their broods of spiderlings....
These spider-infested woodlands must
present a truly remarkable sight when the
night comes; and the rising moon casts her
beams through the gaunt skeletons of the
dead trees to light the strange witches’
sabbath that must take place when the
myriads of these huge hairy' spiders emerge
from the hiding-places m which they have
concealed themselves during the hours of
daylight to feed, mate, and lead their little
lives under the cloak of night —a life which
asts 9 n b until the suns rays send them
scurrying back to pack themselves again
under the bark in a tangle of flattened
bodies and long, hairy legs,
Australian Spiders is revised, brought
up-to-date and largely rewritten from
Mr. McKeown’s Spider Wonders, which
has been out of print for some years,
Except in an occasional passage, such as
the “witches’ sabbath” above, it has no
~,.. . ’ r w
great literary pietensions, being primarily
a work of information ; but it is fluent
in style, there is a breath of the bush
”« ht ,* rOUg f h , t , it as WeU as . t )t e ex Pj"
knowledge oi the museum, and the reader
who once picks it up will not readib
pu t it down unfinished. If he does it
„,;ii u; t „ i.-
Wlll P robab] y blte him -
Reviewed Briefly.
Stolen Goods: Clarence Buddington
Kelland (Museum Press), Queer dealings
in tablecloths lead to a murder in a huge
New York department-store, which is
solved after many dangerous moments by
a little rich girl who has decided to
become a great advertising-writer and to
marry the assistant-manager of the linen-
department (manchester to us). Mr,
Kelland has boned-up department-stores
and tablecloths very knowledgeably ; and
his brick-dropping little rich girl has life
and gaiety ; but in his portrait of her, he
is more like his department-manager who
overtips and has learned manners out of
books than his assistant-manager, to
whom everything comes naturally.
*** # »
Don’t Give Me a Mirror: Francis
Simons (Shakspeare Head). Described
as a “thief” on the cover, the hero is
more properly a junk-dealer’s clerk who
enters it as “iron” when he sells lead, and
pockets the difference—eventually getting
enough to buy-nut the business on the
death of his employer, who has worried
himself into an invalid over trying to
evade taxation. After which the clerk's
conscience emulates that of his employer,
and he has to stay in bed cursing the
new clerk whom he suspects, in turn, of
falsifying the accounts. The author has
got him down wonderfully well, especi-
ally in his love-scenes with his wife and
his typist—the tough-guy technique turned
to realistic ends and used, for the most
part. Without its usual exaggeration.
* ♦ * *
Golden Horn : Basil Davidson (Cape).
Istanbul in about 1948 is the setting for
this novel of espionage, luscious love and
“cold-war” intrigue. However, the reader
may feel that long after the plot of the
book has been forgotten he will remember
certain scenes, situations and characters.
That is because an exceedingly capable
writer has used, somewhat after the
manner of a Graham Greene “entertain-
ment,” an adventurous theme as vehicle
for some exceedingly capable writing.
* -f * *
One Crown with a Sun : Ruth Holland
(Gape). Written in direct and graceful
prose, this unpretentious novel has charm.
It is an attempt to reconstruct Shak-
speare’s life, of which so few facts are
known that such a book must necessarily
be more fictional than biographical.
However, this conception of Shakspeare’s
character is so obviously sincere, and the
the interpretations of Elizabethan town
and country life so convincing, that a
fascinating picture emerges of the back-
ground to the plays and of the play-
wright’s life.
*
Kant for Everyman : Willibald Klinke,
translated by Michael Bullock (Routledge
and Kegan Paul). To try to put Kant
in a nutshell would be similar to saying
that Euclid was a progressive demonstra-
tion of facts about lines and circles;
either you labor through the original
work, or you don’t know what it is about.
This book has little more success in
“explaining” the Critique of Pure Reason
than other books; but the first half, a
condensed biography of Kant, is a charm-
ing picture of the German saddler’s son
who became a professor, lived like a
clock, and produced one of the very few
“immortal” books, i.e., a book which is
true for all people and all times, and
which will never be capable of change or
modification.


ImIII I
w a
-
v ■
V
H. w&MssW&M imm
,, t * , , f
'"%"' *V . * -. *$ , : »*v . •?'*,;* „. „
IS I * 111 i ' I
mmrM. - : ,/- \^A r ,
V: ' ; l i ■ IllII .: ..I'
III:
v. .v-v.; '
VIS:
I. ■
, 11.111; l ; 'l : li :^; llljl
'
■■■■■■Lv,
l?|
■
H
.....mgm&mrs
|M
.
«:# '
■ 'l..^
■MHII
■
*
pill
' ;; 1
■
mm
ipi
HI
iiiii
iv iiii?
I : : ;
*P|i|p
M
:
111
> f|l--
\i
S?i
■■ftfe
H
Famous gunsmiths for over 300 years • • • v
“RAICK-FHEHE”... SHOTGUNS
are now available at Anthony Horderns
Hand engraved 12 gauge hammerless shotgun. It has cross bolt action side clip, 30 blued e ®^®"® ls p a r ?_ d ei | J S '
Full choke In left barrel, right barrel has modified choke. The gun is chambered for 4 9 • , , |
piii
ass a
ds
dsfds
BS*®
12 gauge Raick-Frere double
barrel hammer gun, 30" barrels,
cross bolt nitro proved. £5O.
410 gauge Webley and Scott
single barrel shot gun. £l5/10/-
Bolt Action.
12 gauge Webley and Scoff
single barrel, semi hammerless
ejector gun. Top lever action.
30" barrel, nitro proved, cham-
bered for 2| shells. At £3O.
410 gauge D.B. Richard Burton
Leige shotgun. 29£" barrels,
with side lever and folding
action. Priced at £27/10/-.
Famous Sako Rifle
a high-grade mauser type action
A high-grade mauser type action, with 23f barrel, length
overall 43|", walnut chequered stock, with scope mount
base on barrel, stream line finish weight 64r lbs., in the
following calibres; .22 Hornet £62/10/-, 25/20 £62/10/-.
Sako Cartridge Hornet £5/10/- per 100; 25/20, £5/15/-.
TRUtll JH ADVERTISING'
dsf
•J.
GUNS AND AMMUNITION LOWER GROUND FLOOR
_ 'PHONE M 2401 BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY FREIGHT


FIRE
PROTECTION
ENGINEERED by WORMALD BROTHERS
S
ds
fds
-.»l im •' ■ ... wnMWwwgte >:.»
5 . i
m
MtWiPk'f
I
-iM
Wmmm
E& .M&F
"GRINNELL" AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
Grinnell Automatic Sprink-
ler Systems protect millions
of pounds worth of the
world’s property. When an
outbreak of fire occurs, heat
causes the sprinkler head
above to open, localising the
outbreak, extinguishing the
fire and, at the same time,
calling the Brigade.
Sis!
» y ■
m
in
"MULSIFYRE" SYSTEM
The “Mulsifyre” System ex-
tinguishes oil fires. A power-
ful spray of water converts
burning liquid into an emul-
sion incapable of burning.
Widely used to protect oil-
filled transformers, oil cir-
cuit-breakers, turbine lubri-
cating oil feeds, also all
general oil risks,,
tSSS
SNou.vnvisNi ..xm..
The “Lux” System, using
COg (Carbon Dioxide) Gas,
extinguishes fire instantly.
It can be used on intricate
machinery—electrical wiring
—delicate fabrics—valuable
documents volatile and
highly inflammable liquids
with no harmful effects.
i
-' ■ :
"NATIONAL" AER-O-FOAM SYSTEMS
The National System of fire
protection provides continu-
ous foam production for ex-
tinguishing fires in oil tanks,
buildings where types of in-
flammable liquids are pro-
cessed, ships’ boiler and
engine rooms, etc.
>•:' X:-
v * * ,*: /:
V- V
smjmmmm
Wormald Brothers 9 long-experienced engineers will rhake a survey of your premises or building
point out the danger spots give you advice as to the system of fire protection suitable to your
class of risk 4 complete Fire Protection Service is maintained in all States and New , Zealand.
WORMALD BROTHERS
<Eb
INDUSTRIES
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LIMITED Sydney. Newcastle. Wagga, Brisbane. Townsville. Oranga
WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LIMITED Melbourne, Geelong. Perth. Ballarat, Hobart
WORMALD BROTHERS (S.A.) LIMITED Adelaide
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LIMITED Wellington. Auckland. Christchurch, Dunedin
STEELBILT LIMITED KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LIMITED


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No. 3781
Wednesday, July 30, 1952
dsf
ANOTHER RUNAWAY TRAM.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H- Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8V5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G P. 0.), Wellington.
HOURS AND WAGES.
Premier Cahill, of N.S.W., the State
that legislated in advance of the Arbitra-
tion Court’s decision for introduction of
the 40-hour week, has made it quite clear
that he will do nothing to reverse what
his predecessor accomplished, by legisla-
tion or otherwise. His is the perfect
example of the hit-and-run “Labor”
Government.
This has to be read in the light
of the fact that during the five
years of the 40-hour week the N.S.W.
railways alone have accumulated annual
deficits aggregating to million ; that
the annual loss due to the reduced work-
ing hours is said officially to be running
at the rate of about £3 million annually ;
and that Premier Cahill himself stated
early this month, on the opening of the
new financial year, that
N.S.W. faces higher costs and falling
revenues, and, as regards its railways
especially, increasing deficits. Deficits
were also incurred last year in all busi-
ness undertakings and port authorities’
accounts.
Even if there were no further basic-
wage rises [the latest, since announced,
is one of 12s.], ivages bills in all Govern-
ment services will rise considerably.
I know there is strong x>ressure for re-
duced [Commonwealth] taxation.... but
the Commonwealth has a strong moral
obligation to the States to ensure their
financial stability.
This means that, in the N.S.W. Govern-
ment’s view, the State’s transport services
should be allowed to run into unlimited
deficits rather than interfere with the
causes of those deficits in a too-easy
working week and inflated wages, and
that the Commonwealth Government
should impose any necessary taxation,
however heavy, in order to make up all
States’ transport losses so incurred. The
proved falsity of the arguments of his
predecessor in 1947 about his Govern-
ment easily being able to bear any extra
cost imposed by the 40-hour week weigh
with Mr. Cahill not in the least; he will
move in no way to cure the trouble.
The Arbitration Court declared at the
time of its decision:
[We feel] the responsibility very heavily.
One comfort, however, remains; that is, if
experience shows that we have erred, and
contrary to our best judgment the eco-
nomy does suffer, or if because of world
conditions unanticipated results threaten
us, then the court can take such necessary
steps as will best protect and preserve
our community against any such untoward
possibilities.
Mr. Cahill shows no similar openminded-
ness about his predecessor’s legislative
action,
Mr, Cahill’s attitude may be taken to
represent that of the “Labor” party every-
where. It is to resist any re-examination
of the 40-hour week’s operation.
“Labor,” in fact, treats the infla-
tion problem as something not
economic but political—though there can
be obviously nothing susceptible to mere
political cure in the bankruptcy of N.S.W.
transport undertakings—and it accepts in
full Mr. Justice Foster’s description (in
the 40-hour judgment) of “the evolution
of this court from an industrial tribunal,
limited to a particular task in each case,
into an institution having in effect wide
legislative powers.”
Tills legislative power is so great, indeed,
as to occupy a field from which the
Eederal Parliament is excluded; so para-
mount as to override in appropriate cases
the State legislation; and so vital as to
make the law for Australians in that realm
which touches them most closely and in-
timately.
tnd again:
The present claims are, in effect, an
invitation to [the court as] a legislative
tribunal to declare a principle, and, if in
the national interest, to make it law.
This is a duty and a task which “raises
vast national issues affecting the whole
economic future of the continent and
possibly national security itself.” The
wonder is that so much is entrusted to so
few in a democracy where representative
government exists.
Curiously enough, three years later,
Foster, J., delivering judgment with the
majority (two to one) of the court which
increased the basic wage by 195., having
accepted “the fact that an increase in the
basic wage will inevitably increase
prices and so add its modicum of infla-
tionary pressure,” seemed to modify the
above views when he said;
But inflation and its control are matters
for the Government, and, it may be argued.
a little remote from the court’s immediate
task however generally It may be be-
lieved that the court is a quasi-legislative
body whose duty it is to make laws in
the public interest. I must assume that
the proper authorities will take steps
to safeguard the community from the
effects of an inflation arising, in the main,
from causes other than any action of the
court.
Foster, J., above cited, looked to the
Commonwealth Government to take
measures to correct such pressure. One
consequential Government measure the
court expected and “took into considera-
tion ’ was “the deliberate restriction of
imports.” The Government has duly
applied special taxation and emergency
credit and import restrictions against
which “Labor” leads the howl of protest.
The solitary measure “Labor” approves is
the seeking by referendum of power to
permit the Commonwealth Government
to peg prices but not wa*ges— to the end
that excessive taxation shall be levied in
order to subsidise official prices. To this
Mr. Cahill adds the levying of further
taxation in order to subsidise transport
losses in all States under the 40-hour
week. The taxation-increases, direct and
indirect, which would be necessary under
such insane distortions of an economic
condition already sick enough would
destroy any Government in quick time.
In the 40-hours decision the court con-
fidently expected from economists’
evidence that resulting loss of production,
if any, would not be more than 5 per
cent., and that only temporarily. In-
crease of production was, of course,
essential for support of the increased
wages (40 hours’ work at 44 hours’ pay,
plus overtime where necessary at time
and a half). Higher man-hour produc-
tion, carrying the higher man-hour wages,
would stabilise prices. Such was the
theory. The spiralling of both prices and
wages is reflected in this table, published
in Sydney “Herald,” of quarterly be-
havior of the basic wage (in shillings)
from 1946 onwards:
Year. Feb. May Aug* Nov.
1946 .... 99 99 100 108
1947 .. ~ 108 110 110 112
1948 .. .. 114 116 120 122
1949 .. .. 124 127 130 132
1950 .. .. 135 138 142 165
1951 .. .. 173 180 193 207
1952 .. .. 216 223 235
The “Labor” claim that higher wages
have not caused higher prices has not
so far been proved. The court has
in the past six years three times
raised the basic wage—(l) by 7s.
at the end of 1946, when the Chifley
Government unpegged wages but kept
prices pegged; (2) the 40-hour judg-
ment, operative from January, 1948,
awarded 44-hours’ pay for 40-hours’
work, the effect of which, with (say) four
hours’ overtime worked at time and a
half, raised wages in a manner not shown
by the table ; and (3) by 19s. a week at
the end of 1950. But the figures of these
tables are unreal except in relation to
each other. They do not reflect the level
of actual wages—which has long been in
all industries considerably higher; they
do not disclose the bidding against each
other by employers for scarce labor at
fancy rates; and the C-index on which
they are ostensibly founded was no
reflection of blackmarket prices which
dominated the era of Commonwealth
price-control.
Till the “Labor” party presents an
honest and constructive policy for increas-
ing production to support living standards
not only for present Australians but also
for the higher population we must seek
from immigration, it can have nothing
useful to offer for the salvation of Aus-
tralian economy, and it must bear the
stigma of desiring still greater inflation for
nefarious ends of its own. The dis-
content among the Menzies Government’s
Parliamentary supporters has this much
justification: that some of those supporters
perceive more clearly than Ministers seem
to have done that the Government’s high-
taxation policy is not countering inflation
while lavish taxation proceeds are made
available to State “Labor” Governments
bent on defeating the designed purpose.
Let those Governments at least be obliged
to raise their own taxes.
Trade-unions and Defence.
Any thinking Australian might be excused
for feeling bewilderment at reports of
the meeting, held on July 17, at which
“hoots and shouted interruptions held up
the proceedings of the N. S. Wales Trades
and Labor Council when the Director-
General of Recruiting, Lieut.-General
Sir Horace Robertson, repeated his charge
that half a million young Australians
were shirkers.”
The General attended a previous meet-
ing for the purpose of securing the help
of the unions, and made use of the term
which caused the hoots and shouted inter-
jections, And thereupon a couple of
Communists in the council (supporters of
the foreign Power whose military activity
makes recruiting here necessary), with
their tongues in their cheeks and
mischief in their eyes, proceeded to
demand that there should be a return-
visit at which the speaker should explain
his slander on the Australian workers.
They did not care a twopenny kopek
about the Australian worker, but they
are adept at turning such an occasion to
political account, and when the council,
whose Right-wing section was far more
to be offended than the Left (which hopes
that every Australian of fighting age will
shirk with malice aforethought when the
test comes), decided to invite General
Robertson to repeat his attack, the Com-
munists prepared to use it to widen the
breach between the defence forces whom
General Robertson represents, and the
young workers whom he seeks to enlist.
Being the fighting man he is he was
perfectly ready to oblige, with the result
that his phrase was publicised anew. He
“repeated at the end of his address
[according to the “S. M. Herald” report]
that half a million men between the ages
of 19 and 26 had no military training.
He said they were shirking if they failed
now to get it, because it would be their
turn to fight if there were another war.”
Whether this is the Government’s
view or merely General Robert-
son’s it is quite out of touch with realities.
The present announced quota is 60,000
men, and they are reported to be joining
in satisfactory numbers. The Government
does not want 500,000 men between the
ages of 19 and 26 to train. Even as
it is there is some difficulty in
keeping up the numbers of skilled
junior commissioned officers and n.c.o.s
to handle the kind of force which has
been provided for and which is well on
the way to being achieved, much less
armament, barrack-accommodation and
all the ancillary services which are needed
to provide for large accretions of raw
troops.
It must be remembered, of course, that
if the existing 500,000 are shirkers there
must also be more shirkers coming on
every year. For it cannot be conceded
that just this particular block of 500,000
men, between the ages of 19 and 26, have
a monopoly of shame.
The fact is that most young Aus-
tralians, shown that what they are asked
to do is really something necessary, would
readily come forward. Limited com-
pulsory training under the present Gov-
ernment’s scheme should have done a
great deal to destroy the belief that the
average youngster is inclined to resist
military service. There has been little
evidence of it in the new units; rather an
overwhelming testimony in Common-
wealth-wide experience that it is other-
wise. Compulsory training has meant
considerable sacrifice and dislocation of
the lives of those drafted (though not so
much as English and American boys
suffer); but the general run of recruits
have entered on the job with pride
and have' finished it at a stage
of competence which it would have been
difficult to visualise a few years
ago. Partly this may be due to the fact
that the average youth today is well
educated and technically minded by com-
parison with those of a generation ago,
and that healthy living standards have
endowed them with excellent physiques
and freed them from the economic
worries which affect men of similar age
in countries less favored by fortune.
Outside the volunteer ranks and these
national-service men there is a very large
body of youth of special skill or aptitude,
engaged in industries concerned with
fuel, transport, food and heavy industries
which provide armament and ordnance,
who would not be allowed to fight. These
are discouraged from entering the
volunteer or other military forces because
of skilled-labor shortages. Not merely
private employers but Government
departments, including Commonwealth
departments and municipal bodies and
public utilities, would firmly resist their
enlistment. In some cases the Defence
Department might join in the resistance
if the rush to file colors became embar-
rassing to basic defence industry.
On the other hand there are people
doing their best through the schools
to convince youngsters that it is
their duty to refrain from defending
their country. These are the very
type of people who pretend to
be indignant when the men they are
traitorously suborning from their duty
are called shirkers. The few deliberate
shirkers there are, outside the normal
helping of harebrained pacifists who exist
in every land, are mainly youths corrupted
by Communist propaganda.
It seems that the Government, which
has done an excellent job in defence
organisation up to the present time, should
decide where it is going in recruiting, and
organise its approach to the public on the
subject much more clearly. A regular
programme as to numbers and types kept
daily and efficiently before youth in the
right places would do more than all the
Barnum and Bailey red-white-and-blue
“recruiting ferries,” calling of names and
scolding,
It should be emphasised that, though the
Communists were instrumental in having
General Robertson invited to explain
mse |f to the Labor Council, the invita-
?° n . by . the co V ndl ™ obviously not
Xot;:
ask him > to come me resentme P nt at his
e P ithet general, but the resolution
P“t forward afterwards supported the
.
S?! S'h TfrZT
than any proposed in a trade-
yf” a . „
go^tot theTdTral “nd Sra“
t ives of the AL P the thinking of those
bodies has become more national-
minded. The Labor Council reiterated
its support of the United Nations and
commended the efforts of that body. It
declared that the Australians are fighting
in Korea with the complete support of
the trade-union movement. It drew
attention to the “reputation won by Aus-
tralian forces throughout the world in the
determined stand taken against all forms
,°f reaction and totalitarianism in the
interests of democracy.” It condemned
an Y suggestions that Australian youths
are shirkers, and that parents are mad
for refusing to allow their sons to
volunteer for the armed forces. And while
ad bering to “Labor’s” traditional rejec-
don of conscription it showed itself
friendly to the ideal of enlistment in the
interests of security,
There seems to be no barrier, if the
council and other similar bodies in other
States managed by the new moderate con-
trollers of “Labor” are sincere, to an
invitation to the trade-unions to a closer
liaison with defence organisation. As a
start > an invitation might be issued to a
few union-leaders of the calibre of Mr.
Dougherty, of the A.W.U., and Mr.
Shortell, of the Trades and Labor Council,
to visit camps and to identify themselves
more nearly and regularly with national
security. It should not be difficult
“ the pr^ ent situation to arrive
cS bj
**
CO . OD +• n S a 16
p ‘
N.Z. Monetary Reform.
From Auckland : Inflated credit, large-
scale overdraft-financing of business and
sharp credit contraction, all of which
have been experienced in Maoriland this
year, came under the lash of N.Z.’s most
ardent currency critic and apostle of
reform, Henry J. Kelliher, of Auckland,
lately, when he castigated the Reserve
Bank for what he called its failure to
make the Dominion’s pound a “just and
constant” measure of value.
This leading brewery- and hotel-owner,
breeder of pedigree stock and ex-Bank
of New Zealand director has been
thundering out about the evils of “cost-
lessly created bank credit” for years past,
and has been waging an unremitting cam-
paign to persuade Maorilanders, from
members of Parliament downwards, to
adopt his system and show the world
how money should be managed on brand-
new lines.
A while ago he used to describe it as a
“full reserve” system; now he has re-
named it the “loanable funds” banking
technique. The principle, as he puts it,
is that the trading banks are placed in
the same position as other leading finan-
cial and investment organisations, obtain-
ing their loanable funds from repayment
of existing loans, from borrowings on
fixed deposits, from the sale of overseas
exchange, and from similar sources, while
the Reserve Bank is left as the sole creator
of new money.
For those familiar with proposals for
monetary reform, which have appeared
in many different guises and will con-
tinue to do so, there will be nothing very
startling in this, and probably Maoriland’s
banking system will be little affected by
another concentrated barrage ; but what
strikes the bystander is the pitch of
reforming zeal reached in each new
attack. If the Reserve Bank and the
trading banks attain their goal by the
traditional, well-trodden path of tighter
credit and dearer money, as no doubt
they will, this campaign will lose its
momentum like others before it, and
Maorilanders who have been Kelliher’s
temporary converts / and followers will
be left wondering how prosperity, which
they’ve been told is going “to the dogs,”
was ever regained without disaster.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Exit Farouk.
Events in the Middle East have taken an
unpredictable turn. On July 21 Dr.
Moussadek, who had been thrown weep-
ing out of office a few days before, was
carried fainting into his house after having
been restored to dictatorship while savage
mobs, chiefly Communist, roamed Tehran
and Ispahan hunting his enemies. The
eel-like Ghavam who had replaced him
for a few days slipped out of the capital
but was presently captured and held under
strong guard while Moussadek’s support-
ing gangs howled for the chance to lynch
him. It was a bad day for the Shah,
who had made the change and whose
photographs were now being tom up by
demonstrators, and a worse day for the
British and Americans in the light of
the decision of the International Court
on the oil dispute. The court had nothing
to say about the merits of the case, but
—the British judge assenting and the
American dissenting—ruled by nine votes
to five that the trouble was outside the
ambit of international law.
In Tehran and Ispahan the crowds pro-
ceeded to take it out of the hides of the
Americans, who had been looked on as
sympathetic to the ousting of British in-
terests. The Persians cannot yet appreci-
ate the workings of the judicial mind, so
they assaulted an American official,
wrecked the U.S. Economic Aid Office in
Ispahan and forced the closing of other
U.S. offices as they went about, their
hands dripping with the blood of a
hundred and more victims, looking for
somebody else to murder in the interests
of Moussadek.
Persia may have provided U.N.O. with
a successor to Dr. Evatt in the presi-
dency of U.N.0., but it knows nothing of
human rights, and is in a dangerous con-
dition, apparently deeper every day in the
Communist net and more and more sub-
ject to the Communist technique aimed
at creating disturbance as a preliminary to
a coup against Moussadek and the estab-
lishment of a “dictatorship of the pro-
letariat.” Even Moussadek seems to see
the danger, and has expressed his willing-
ness to parley with the British oil in-
terests.
Egypt followed Persia with a coup
staged by General Mahomed Naguib,
commander of the Cairo district, who
established a military dictatorship with
the help of the army, which is allegedly
incensed by the scandals and corruption
incident to the conduct of the Palestinian
war —revolutions are always made by the
virtuous and indignant.
King Farouk first agreed to the instal-
lation of a new Premier and then abdi-
cated, and on July 26 left his fatted
office with his Queen and his son (who
succeeds him) under orders from the new
Government. He sailed via Genoa for
the United States, which has replaced
England as the land of royal exiles.
Since his infant son succeeds him there
will be no de facto king, but only a very
much de facto regency operated by the
dictatorship.
The next moves had yet to be seen
when this was written, but the British
Foreign Office had announced “certain
precautionary movements,” which seem to
have brought every available adjacent
warship and aircraft within reach of
Egypt to protect British nationals. Britain
and the world may have cause to rue the
weak policy of the Attlee Government
which allowed British prestige to be
dragged in the dust in the Middle East.
But at least the Churchill Government
has retrieved our self-respect there,
if it has not yet fully restored British
influence.
Mr. Truman's Successor.
The Democratic Convention has elected,
as its Presidential rival to General
Eisenhower, Mr. Adlai Stevenson,
Mr. Truman’s nominee and Governor
of Illinois, He is a formidable
candidate with a long tradition of
political service in his family history,
though much of it is on the Re-
publican side —one grandfather was Vice-
President to President Cleveland, and an-
other was one of the main tacticians
behind Lincoln’s election to the White
House. Personally he has the reputa-
tion of being an unobtrusive but vigor-
ous administrator, an active enemy of
corruption and a very tornado in cam-
paigning.
His apparent unwillingness to stand
for office, and the unanimity in his favor
when he did agree to be pushed forward,
were in striking contrast to the neck-and-
neck battle which took place among the
Republicans before Eisenhower ousted
Taft. With the support of Mr. Truman
and of large sections of the voters who
have become tired of both noisy and ex-
perimentally socialised government and a
too-flamboyant and acquisitive line in
foreign affairs, he seems to have a strong
chance of success.
The Republican party in modern days
has always a disadvantage in that it has
not succeeded in persuading the great
leaders of Labor that it is not the organ
of Big Business. And with business re-
organisation everywhere in progress, and
the European countries regaining their
feet in production and trade and not so
much surplus employment available to
all and sundry as a little while ago, there
is a tendency in the United States to
remember that the Republicans under
Hoover were in office at the onset of the
depression. However, both candidates
are men of high calibre ; both are as
friendly to British interests as is con-
sistent with the maintenance of their
own.
Whichever wins can be given a hearty
welcome, without misgivings, by outside
nations.
N. S. Wales Lags Behind.
Since the N. S. Wales Housing Commis-
sion was established in 1942 several
Ministers have presided over its destinies.
First there was McGirr, a man of mighty
promises, though his most ambitious
effort in that line—“90,000 homes in three
years”—was not uttered until he had laid
down the portfolio and was leading his
party in a vital election campaign which
called for spectacular promises. After
McGirr came Clive Evatt, whose zeal in
laying foundation-stones, had it been
emulated by Housing Commission work-
men in laying bricks, might have almost
made his chief’s promise come true. Clive
was succeeded by Gus Kelly, who took
on the job with a fixed determination not
to be mistaken for his predecessor. Now
Clive is back at the old address again.
Reviewing the history of the Housing
Commission and surveying the general
housing position in N. S. Wales the re-
search section of the Liberal party has
reached the conclusion that the “Labor”
Government has fallen down on the job,
that the housing effort of N, S. Wales is
lagging far behind that of other States,
and that the “extravagant expenditure of
the Government has been a major factor
in forcing up building costs.” The first of
these three conclusions is, of course,
routine comment of one political party
on another, but the evidence quoted to
support the second and third fully justifies
it.
In 1939 approximately 40,000 houses
and flats were completed in the Com-
monwealth ; in 1951-52 the corresponding
figure was 69,000, which represents an
increase of 73 per cent. The percentage-
increase for N. S. Wales was 22 p.c., the
lowest of all the States. In case this
should be challenged as not being a fair
basis of comparison, the report also lists
the housing output of the various States
for the year 1950-51 in terms of “dwell-
ings erected per 10,000 of population.”
In this, too, N. S. Wales trails the field:
N.S.W 62
Victoria .. .. 95
Queensland .. 85
S. Australia .. 93
West Australia .. 94
Tasmania .. .. 135
A.C.T 245
“N, S. Wales erected 62 homes per
10,000 of population, whereas the figure
for the rest of Australia was 95 homes
per 10,000 of population.... Had pro-
gress in the State matched that of the
rest of Australia, output of homes would
now be some 35,000 a year.” Actual
output last year was 20,737. Victoria,
with a population only two-thirds that of
the Mother State, built 21,358 homes.
On the score of costs the report claims
that the N.S.W. Government is in part
responsible for the disproportionate in-
crease in building costs. Firstly, by
granting priority of materials to con-
tractors for Housing Commission homes
it forced up the cost of houses built by
private builders, and, secondly, its spend-
ing of loan funds and its sponsorship of
homes financed by other organisations
was one of the principal agents of infla-
tionary housing finance. Taking an
index-number of 100 as a base for the
average of the three years to June, 1939,
the nominal weekly wage in N. S. Wales
had risen to 284 by December last. On
the same basis the retail price-index rose
to 237 and wholesale prices to 298. Build-
ing costs rose to 368.
Since the war the McKell-McGirr-
Cahill Government has spent over £180
million on public works, most of which
are incompleted and most of which have
been in competition with housing for
labor and materials. All this has helped
to force the price of building beyond
the reach of most homeseekers. Thus
the net result of several years of “placing
housing in the forefront of Government
policy” has been to provide fewer homes
in proportion to population than any
other State and to push prices up to pro-
hibitive levels.
Is Peace Possible?
The real difficulty about making peace
with Soviet Russia anywhere in the wide
world has never yet been sufficiently
stressed. It is—as Moscow has shown
in the clearest fashion —that no terms of
real peace with Communist Russia, even
if a basis for them could be agreed upon
(it has never been agreed yet), would
be at all likely to be kept by Russia.
The Western allies have been trying
since 1945 to discover the grounds for a
possible peace with the Soviet —in vain.
Supposing terms could be agreed upon,
what peace is possible when one party
persists, for the inflaming of its own
people, in a daily radio barrage of hate
against the other, to say nothing of the
organised and relentless working of Mos-
cow’s “fifth-column” agents, in abuse of
the freedom they find in democratic
countries, to disrupt democratic society?
Can any Western nation find any re-
assurance from a review of Stalin’s treaty
of friendship with Hitler in 1939, made,
apparently, between equals and without
duress on either side?
It is this absence of prospects for the
making of any treaty with the Soviet
which has convinced the Western de-
mocracies that war can be avoided only
by their being so prepared that the Soviet
will hesitate to begin war. Let those who
live in doubt lest the Atlantic Pact
Powers, and the Australian Government,
may be “warmongers” tell us what honor-
able peace can be made with Russia, and
in what terms it might be drawn up to
assure that Moscow will keep such a
treaty once the Atlantic Powers had
abandoned their preparations to mobilise.
Among the axioms of statecraft in Com-
munist Russia is prescribed the duty of
lying and false witness in order to win
ideological advantage. How do we make
a peace treaty with such a dictatorship?
THE BULLETIN Cup.
The Bulletin’s cup, competed for by
the Cadet Corps of New South Wales
high schools, was shot for during the
April-May camps.
It was again won by Shore, with King’s
in second place. On the average shooting
was improved, but there are still too
many schools (26 out of 73) scoring under
600 points, and too long a tail. Only
three schools were credited with more
than 1000 points, and only seven above
900. At the same time not all schools
were able to complete their firing prac-
tice because of changes in camp time-
tables. The winners, with a score of i 053,
put up a very creditable performance.
Consolidated scores over 600 points:
S.C.E.G.S., 1053 ; The King’s School, 1048;
Casino High School, 1030; North Sydney Boys’
High, 973; The Scots College, 956; Sydney
Grammar School, 923; C.8.C., Manly, 908;
Young High School, 875; The Armidale
School, 846; The Cranbrook School, 844;
All Saints, Bathurst, 836; Knox Grammar
School, 823 ; Inverell Inter. High School,
802; Newington College, 802; Yass Inter.
High School, 788; C.8.C., Tamworth,
788; Yanco Agricultural High School, 775;
Manly High School, 772; North Sydney Tech.
High School, 765; Armidale High School, 763 ;
Dubbo High School, 761; Canberra High
School, 756; C.8.C., Chatswood, 744; M.8.C.,
Randwick 740; Mullumbimby Inter. High,
710; C.8.C., St. Marys (Sydney), 710; Lismore
High School, 702; De-La-Salle, Armidale, 702;
Trinity Grammar School, 695; C.8.C., Wollon-
gong, 688; Marist Bros., Parramatta, 681;
Wollongong High School, 676; Marist Bros.,
Forbes, 673; St. Aloysius College, 671; Mosman
Inter. High School, 669; Wagga Wagga High
School, 667; Goulburn High School, 666;
St. Joseph’s College (Sydney), 650; Fort-street
Boys’ High School, 649; Lithgow High School,
648; Marist Bros., Kogarah, 642; Tumut High
School, 633; Dulwich Hill Central, 628; Tam-
worth High School, 621; Kempsey High School,
615; Griffith High School, 613; Barker College,
608.
"Labor" on the Slide.
The balance of public favor and of
advantage is shifting from “Labor” to the
Liberal-C.P. side in Federal politics. If
the 10 per cent, income-tax impost is
to be removed, sales-tax anomalies recti-
fied and other financial arrangements are
made in favor of the taxpayer in the
Budget the change may become marked.
The Treasurer’s handling of the difficult
situation has perhaps been clumsy in spots
—adroitness is not his long-suit—but
the Government has been courageous in
the face of heavy opposition.
Amid all the demands from Trades
Hall “Labor” that its followers should be
o Continued on next page.)
E.J. Brady.
Brady made his name in Australian verse
for his sea-ballads, and the standard piece
which gets into the anthologies is “Lost
and Given Over”: —
A mermaid’s not a human thing,
An’ courtin’ sich is folly;
Of flesh an’ blood I’d rather sing,
What ain’t so melancholy.
Oh, Berta! Loo! Juanita! Sue!
Here’s good luck to me an’ you—•
Sing rally! ri-a-rally!
The seas is deep; the seas is wide;
But this I’ll prove whate’er betide,
I’m bully in the alley!
I’m bull-ee in our al-lee!
In his guesthouse at Mallacoota (Vic.),
on the south-east tip of the continent,
where he settled down 50 years ago, he
surrounded himself with nautical furnish-
ings of enormous sideboards, ship’s lan-
terns and other paraphernalia salvaged
from wrecks along the stormy coast
between Gabo and Mallacoota Inlet; and
What Must We Do
To Be Saved?—Page 10.
the salty atmosphere, like the salty poems,
fitted harmoniously with his outstandingly
vigorous personality.
But lively as the sea-ballads are —and
Masefield praised them —anybody who
may be thinking of producing a memorial
edition of his verse would do well to look
closely at his rhymes from the bush,
many of which have never been reprinted
since their first appearance in The
Bulletin.
Not exactly ballads, but a kind of
easygoing narrative verse, these seem to
have more force today than most of the
seafaring rhymes: maybe because they
are Australian in setting, whereas the
sea-poems are located anywhere from
China to Peru ; maybe because a lot of
the sea-ballads are on stock themes,
whereas in the others Brady was putting-
down freshly and naturally exactly what
he himself saw and felt in this country:
as when, for instance, he went camping
with one Watts “way out on Yugilbar,”
and Watts played the fiddle to the miners:
And so we went on peace intent
That golden Easter-tide
With ample store of providore,
The liquid stock beside;
And, trotting free, ’twas good to see
The packhorse in his stride.
The spoil hard-won by rod and gun
Abroad in Nature’s ways;
The kind surcease from toil, and peace
Beside the campfire’s blaze;
The dawn’s young rose, the evening’s close
Made perfect all our days.
First night went by; but, bearded, shy,
Unskilled of tongue or pen,
Next night from camp, a starlit tramp,
They came, rough miner men.
The fiddler knew, and slyly drew
The music of their ken.
Of “Home, Sweet Home” ’neath star-spread
dome
The dark hills heard the story;
“St. Patrick’s Day” once more away
The wild Celt called to glory;
Or sweet and sad the raw Scots lad
Dreamed of his “Annie Laurie.”
Brave, simple souls, when backward rolls
Life’s curtain, from afar
That scene I’ll dream by hill and stream
’Neath cloudless moon and star;
In fancy hear the echoes clear —
Way out on Yugilbar.
There’s a large and genial love for Aus-
tralia, scenes and people alike, in these
bush verses, and it may well be that in
the long run Brady will amble to immor-
tality on horseback rather than sail on
the sea-winds. One of the best things he
wrote, though it is not at all typical in
theme, was a narrative-poem about a
sadistic ratcatcher, dating from Brady’s
days as a shipping-clerk in Sydney.
But whatever posterity selects from
his big output of verse and prose to
remember him by, it is certain to have
that robust and unaffected manliness
which characterises all Brady’s writing:
a sturdy expression of the ardent Aus-
tralianism of the ’Nineties which reached
its peak in “Banjo” Paterson’s ballads
and which, however difficult the spirit
may be to detect in the general muddle
of contemporary life, still speaks with
vigor and confidence—in a changed and
deepened form—in the poetry of Robert
D. Fitz Gerald, Judith Wright and Francis
Webb.
Agricultural and Pastoral
Report.
The shining plough and the sharp axe,
the cleared land and the turned furrow,
the burned stubble and the bare fallow,
. . . dust, dust, hide the red sun.
The ringed tree and the burned scrub,
the felled tree and the dead eagle,
the straight furrow, the rushing water,
. . . dust, dust, hide the red sun.
Sheep mouths and the bared hill,
sheep hooves and the eaten root,
starving sheep and the licked seed,
. . . dust, dust, hide the red sun.
The rusted plough and the fallen lintel,
the broken gate and the buried fences,
the breadless city, the gaping woolshed,
oh, dust, dust, hide the red sun.
s.a.
IAN MUDIE.


"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
fr
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
dsf
r.fMkik l
<7 HITNTKH STREET. SYDNEV.
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
£44/10/-
+ 12£% sales tax
*
BW 8631.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
01 years of service
TO IRE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
AAs,
gliding down the Nile!
All in her latest Babylonian frock—
A lean, brown beauty, with a syren
smile,
]Jn route to shop at “Ancient
Antioch.”
Marc Antony farewelled her by the
way.
Vowed her absence he could scarce
endure.
“Last night,” he cried, “of croup I
almost died!
Bring back some
9 Great Peppermint Core* *
allowed to keep on devouring their cake
while having it in the cupboard at the
same lifne, there is a distinct air of sur-
render about the discussion of the 44-hour
week and the increase in the basic wage.
At a conference of “23 unions and pro-
fessional and technical organisations”
which, at the weekend in Sydney, decided
unanimously to support the A.C.T.U. in
its opposition to the employers’ applica-
tion to the Federal Arbitration Court to
reduce wages and introduce the 44-hour
week, the majority were Communist-
controlled, or in process of being de-
controlled from Communist leadership
after a long period behind the Iron
Curtain. No great moderate unions were
represented.
At the same time the liaison of the
Country-party Government of Victoria
with the Liberal party, even though only
temporary, is an important change, and
if it can be made permanent will have
more influence on Australian politics than
anything which has happened since 1949,
when the Chifley Government was
defeated.
The Cahill Government in N. S. Wales
is in serious trouble with its shabby
transport, which is going precipitately
bankrupt under the masterhands of its
Mr. Sheahan and of the Wonder Boys
of the Winsor era. To cap it all, Mr.
Menzies has just caught Mr. Cahill out
playing politics with electricity supplies.
On the plea that it was not possible to
obtain plant in Britain to end N. S. Wales
blackouts, he asked Mr. Menzies while
abroad to arrange for the purchase of
nearly $20,000,000-worth of electrical
machinery in the United States, knowing
how greatly it would embarrass the Com-
monwealth Government to find the
dollars. But the Prime Minister, instead,
inquired in England and discovered that,
as Mr. Cahill must have well known, the
machinery was available at competitive
prices in the sterling area. Blackouts are
dangerous things to play politics with.
It seems that if the Federal Govern-
ment keeps its head Dr. Evatt will go to
the next Federal poll with the support
of only the Queensland “Labor” Govern-
ment, which, thanks to its barefaced
manipulation in electoral matters, has be-
come a dictatorship, and the Tasmanian
“Labor” Government, which is scarcely
Labor at all, and unbacked by the money
and enthusiastic cheers which the Com-
munist leadership of the bigger key unions
has given Dr. Evatt and his friends for
years.
POLITICAL POINTS
Critics are still telling the Treasurer
what sort of Budget he ought to prepare,
and prophets are busy telling the public
what sort he has prepared. S’Artie him-
self won’t say a word till August 6.
Price-control of clothing and textiles
ceased in N. S. Wales on Monday. The
trade has been urging decontrol for a
long time, arguing that it would enable
shops to cut prices on many essential
items of clothing, recouping themselves
on the more expensive lines. Till now
officialdom has been deaf to the sugges-
tion, but when interested trade-unions
added their voices to the chorus Finnan
and Cabinet decided there might be some-
thing in it.
South Australia and Westralia freed
clothing and textiles from price-control
some time ago ; Victoria is to follow the
lead of N. S. Wales, Queensland and
Tasmania intend to think it over a bit
longer. If Queensland dallies very long
there should be some interesting clothing
deals on the Coolangatta-Tweed Heads
border.
Relative calm has descended once
again on the public aspects of Victorian
politics, though the scene-shifters and
property-men report heavy calls for the
sound-effect known as “rumblings off-
stage.”
Half-Premier McDonald has succeeded
in repeating the performance of his one-
time leader and mentor, Albert Dunstan,
of changing horses in mid-session without
getting out of the saddle, and as a result
the Thirteen Farmers of Spring-street are
still the nominal Government of Vic-
toria. When Cain led his “Labor” men
into Opposition, following his failure f o
wring from the Cockies the full price of
continued support, the Liberal-Country
party had to choose between facing an
election with the party’s stocks at low
ebb or swallowing a few vows and prin-
ciples and gelling the best bargain they
could from the Country party for cross-
ing to the Government side.
The agreed bargain included (a)
Assembly redistribution on the L.-C.P.
plan, (b) a bill to prevent abolition
of the Legislative Council without
a referendum, (c) reform of Land-
lord and Tenant Act, ( d) dropping
of the Greater Melbourne Bill,
(e) complete good faith and goodwill be-
tween the two parties. As the L.-C.P.
scheme for redistributing electoral
boundaries provides for the continuance
of the present ratio of city and country
seats it does not seem that McDonald
had much to lose by agreeing to that
point, nor, for that matter, to (b), (c) and
(i d ). Point (e), in the light of past history,
means exactly nothing.
The position in the Victorian Assembly
is now: Government, 13; supported by
26 L.-C.P. members (some more reluctant
than others); “Labor” Opposition, 25.
The 65th member is Sir Archie Michaelis,
the Speaker. In the Legislative Council
McDonald has eight followers and 10
supporters (L.C.P.); “Labor’s” strength in
the Council is 15.
“And if one green bottle should acci-
dentally fa 11”....
It looks as if “Labor’s” A 1-4 Senate
team may not get the nomination after
all; certainly one of them won’t. There’s
to be another selection ballot, the Federal
executive having decided that each State
will nominate three candidates only in-
stead of four. At the earlier ballot the
four A’s were Senators Amour and
Arnold and would-be Senators Allen and
Abel. The peculiar sound heard in Sydney
on Friday night, like unto a herd of
haggises in full cry, was most probably
Donal’ Grant expressing his appreciation
of the latest decision.
Communist officials deny that their
party secretary Sharkey is going to
Russia to arrange a visit of Australian
trade-unionists to the Workers’ Father-
land ; they say he is going there to obtain
treatment for a heart ailment. It is too
much to hope that the treatment involves
a change of heart.
The tumult and the shouting have died
down in Chicago with the selection of
Adlai Stevenson, Governor of Illinois, as
Democrat opponent to Eisenhower. The
Presidential campaign now begins in real
earnest and may be expected to continue
without let-up until polling-day—in
November.
Stevenson’s nomination is remarkable
for two things—it is the first time since
1932 that the Democrats have nominated
a candidate other than the President, and
it is the first time in memory that they
have “conscripted” a candidate —almost
to the last minute Stevenson protested
that he had no wish to stand and that it
would take a mighty big push to make
him change his mind. By the end of the
convention the push was almost unani-
mous.
On Friday the Federal Government
announced its intention of being repre-
sented at the Arbitration Court’s hearing
of the employers’ wages and hours claim.
The Commonwealth will maintain that
it is of highest national importance and
urgency that the applications be dealt
with as soon as possible, and it will offer
to help the court in any way possible
in the provision of relevant material.
Lotteries, “other than State,” are in
the news in Melbourne and Brisbane.
The Victorian set-up is a bootleg show
which sells tickets at a shilling each and
offers prizes of up to £lOO. Police think
the racket may run into 20,000 tickets
a drawing, with a profit to the promoters
of £BOO. In the eyes of the law the
Brisbane concern is not a lottery, but an
art-union for which State Government
permission / has been duly granted. It
operates under the name “Petrie Federal
Electoral Division Literary Fund,” and, as
Attorney-General Power maintains that
permission is always refused for raffles
to be run for political purposes and the
promoter refused to tell the “Courier-
Mail” the nature of the “Literary Fund,”
buyers of the tickets are, to say the least,
a trifle mystified,
Senator Pearson (S.A.) has been touring
Queensland and is not very favorably
impressed with what he found there. Back
in Adelaide he summed up his impres-
sions by saying that Queensland needed
a Tom Playford. That’s hardly fair. If
South Australia has finished with Play-
ford why should Queensland get prefer-
ential treatment? There are other States
which need him just as much; N. S.
Wales, for example.
Radio news-session last Friday morn-
ing: “The new Egyptian Cabinet was
sworn at —I’ll read that again—was sworn
in today.”
Found at last —a modest politician. At
least that is one interpretation that could
be put on N. S. Wales Prices Minister
Finnan’s repeated pleas for the Common-
wealth to take over price-control, In
effect, isn’t he saying, “I can’t control ’em.
You’d do better”? Of course, Finnan
isn’t really modest, or he wouldn’t be a
N. S. Wales “Labor” Minister. Experi-
ence must have taught him that so-called
price-control is merely price-recording,
and he would be only too happy to pass
the buck.
Roy Wheeler (Liberal, Mitchell,
N.S.W.), told the Representatives a year
ago that Australia had “bitten off a little
more than it could chew” in its immi-
gration programme. He recommended
a slowing-down until those migrants
already here had been assimilated. That
is what Cabinet has now decided upon.
Australia is not alone in putting a brake
on immigration. Israel recently clamped
down on the inflow of migrants, restrict-
ing the monthly entry to 1500. London
“Spectator” draws attention to the ironic
fact that this is the identical figure fixed
by the last Administration under British
mandate.
A Premier and a Prime Minister give
two versions of one story:
Mr. Cahill, July 13: The Prime Minister
had been asked to arrange for the purchase of
two 70,000 kilowatt stations while in America.
He had not done so, and as a result N. S. Wales
would face a shortage of electricity in another
two years the same as today.
Mr. Menzies, July 27: Mr. Cahill did ask
me to sponsor an application for dollars....
He worked up to this by. endeavoring to prove
that British manufacturers would be unable to
meet the Electricity Commission’s requirements.
I made certain inquiries in Britain, which led
English manufacturers to offer to supply the
N. S. Wales Government with whatever it wanted
in the way of complete generating equipment,
when it wanted it, and at competitive prices.
I understand that the N. S. Wales Government
was apprised of these facts before Mr. Cahills
statement of July 13 was made.
There they are. Take your pick.
In a letter to the “S. M. Herald” a
gentleman signing as chairman of the Air
Pollution Board criticises the N. S. Wales
Minister for Health for not prosecuting
the Minister for Transport and the
Minister for Local Government “for
allowing Government departments under
their control to pollute the air.” The
writer did not, as might be thought, mean
that those two departments were polluting
the air by the mere fact of their existing ;
he was referring to smoke and gases
from power-stations under their control.
At the same time there is room for
ambiguity in the name of the protesting
board. Surely there should be an “anti”
pinned on somewhere? Otherwise the
general public can hardly be blamed for
assuming that the organisation aims at
polluting the air rather than clearing it.
Chief interest in last week’s proceed-
ings of the royal commission on liquor
lay in the question whether a police-officer
did or did not suggest to a restaurant-
proprietor that he could buy immunity
from raids and convictions by paying
bribes to another police-officer. David
Bos, proprietor of the Black Tulip rest-
aurant, swore that Sgt. Davis was in the
habit of dropping in for drinks and
snacks “on the house” and that on one
occasion, after a police raid which re-
sulted in his being fined for illegal sale
of liquor, had suggested that if he “did
the right thing” by Sgt. Corrigan, of the
Vice Squad, he would save himself a
lot of trouble. Davis denied the allega-
tion, but admitted visiting tlje restaurant,
sometimes when on duty, sometimes in
off hours. He claimed it was his custom
to take his own liquor with him. Asked
whether he felt embarrassed at drinking
in a place which he knew was subject
to Vice-Squad raids, he said he did his
drinking “quietly and out of sight.” Asked
whether he could explain Bos’s motive in
making the bribe-talk accusation against
him, Davis said he thought Bos had
become vindictive because he had got into
trouble with the Taxation Department.
He had known cases where a man in
financial difficulties had turned on his
friends.
Communist control of the N. S. Wales
branch of the Clerks’ union came to an
end on Sunday when the newly-elected
central council, on which A.L.P. indus-
trial-groupers hold a majority, dismissed
J. R, Hughes from the job of secretary.
Voting was 25 to 18. Hughes’s assistant-
secretary, N. C. Proctor, was also given
his ticket. New acting-secretary is
P. O’Toole.
Senator Armstrong has come out with
a long list of Coal Board machinery which
he claims is idle and rusting on the coal-
fields or encased in grease in Sydney
sheds. It is only a few months since he
and his colleagues were protesting loudly
against the board’s decision to sell some
of its plant to mining companies ; now he
complains because it isn’t all in use. The
board has not yet given a full reply to
the Senator’s charges, but the feeling is
inescapable that his attack is motivated
by a desire to draw a red-herring across
the coal-trail at a time when production
is far and away above the figures recorded
when “Labor” was in power at
Canberra.


fyftSatiOTizi
sdf
fees''
&-»x
'M
V' r
[ WONPE& WHAT FRENCHMEN
TH(NK A6 OUT WHEN THEY GET QU?7
LA, LA!


sd
* '# &
HOSPITAL.:;.™;..;
■> pyu STRSHQTK..S
' . WP ,s»ftTtNr* * ew *> rl .<«SL
P5O/54
“THE SOCIETY OF
SECRETARIES OF
GREAT BRITAIN LTD.”
The Society for Private and
Company Secretaries, Desig-
nation “Qualified Secretary.”
Membership by Examination
or Professional Service.
Details from the Secretary,
9 Charles Street, NEWPORT,
MON., ENGLAND.
,
1?
t' * $
Pw: /
hS
psfc
<L
■.
NYLON
SHIRTS
Going travelling?
Then nylon shirts are absolutely necessary. They do
away with the need for taking a big supply in order to
ensure a clean shirt. Nylon shirts are easily washed,
quickly dried and need no ironing—they are crease
resistant and always smartly fresh.
ENGLISH NYLON SHIRTS
A shipment of Nylon shirts received from England
gives you the choice of two styles: the Breathing
patterned weave that provides maximum ventilation;
and the plain porous weave. Both styles have collar
attached, with an extra easily replaceable collar.
Collar sizes, 14£ to \l\.
“Breathing” patterned weave £5 19 6
Plain porous weave ................... £5 10 6
BREATHING NYLON TRUNKS
Made in Australia. All sizes ............... 36/-
PEAPES Pty. Ltd.
285 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite Hunter Street
Mail Orders: Box 165, G.P.0., Sydney.
Business.Rollery.Etc.
WHAT MUST WE DO TO BE SAVED?
Although the credit tap has
been turned down to a trickle
in many cases of new industrial
expansion—the restriction being
part of the Commonwealth
Government’s general economic
policy during a period of inflat-
ing wages, costs and prices—and
business activity is reported to
have slumped in many avenues,
there should be no doubt in any-
body’s mind about the real con-
dition of things in Australia.
And that condition is one in
which we are short of nearly all
essential commodities, with the
probable exception of clothing.
Whatever the surplus of bricks
may be at present, in terms of
housing needs we are short of
them. This applies to cement
as well, though this material is
now obtainable without much
trouble. Even our present
record level of timber-produc-
tion might not fill demands if
housing and construction activity
was going on at the pace required
to fill national requirerfients.
Our rail-transport and coastal
shipping facilities are grossly in-
adequate. Our roads are much
below their pre-war standards.
Though coal output is increasing
it is still a long way below the
nation’s requirements. As is only
too well known, electricity supplies
in most States are rationed
periodically, if not all the time.
Our food-production, too, is*
inadequate for a country which
depends for much of its overseas
income on exports of foodstuffs.
Our own domestic requirements
of dairy products and meat are
periodically endangered by short-
ages ; and wheat harvests have
declined alarmingly lately.
Our production of most things
per man pet hour has fallen,
while our consumption of many
things has, in terms per head,
been rising. There has been a
taxing of our productive and
transport capacity in bringing to
the consumer all the things he
has wanted. There has not been,
at the same time, enough atten-
tion given to the means of pro-
duction. Our tools of produc-
tion and means of transport
have been wearing out and be-
coming obsolete.
This trend developed during a
period in which credit was ex-
ceptionally free and money
generally was readily available.
Housing loans were made on
overliberal terms. And it hap-
pened, in particular, during a
time when the standard working
hours were reduced from 44 to
40, and a 195.-a-week “pros-
perity” loading was added to the
basic wage.
Our lag in production can
in no way be blamed upon lack
of funds for either public works
or private industry. For six
years after the war we had
plenty of money; it has been
that we just haven’t produced the
goods. Our output from each
employed person has been far
too low.
Whatever the financial posi-
tion at present—and money has
undoubtedly become much
tighter —it is undeniable
that there is an immense amount
of work awaiting to be done if
this country is to go forward as
a modern civilisation. At present
we are, industrially, lagging very
badly. But it has been well
demonstrated that the free avail-
ability of credit and other money
will not of itself effect a cure
of our industrial shortcomings.
In fact, experience points to the
reverse.
It will be interesting to see
whether the closing-down of less-
essential industry will provide
more manpower for those essen-
tial services previously running
shorthanded, such as the State-
owned railways and other trans-
port systems. Already the
moulding trades are getting
more men than they require, and
output per man is moving up.
What ironworkers could easily
have done during the times of
easy money, but in fact wouldn’t
do, they are now doing with
alacrity and no harm to them-
selves under the spur of possible
dismissal on a labor market
now showing a surplus of
unskilled hands.
To get back to the funda-
mentals of our present problem
—inadequate productive and
transport capacity in a period of
tight money that has followed
upon a long inflationary boom —
and the methods that should be
used to cope with it, it is neces-
sary to consider the physical
economics first of all. In other
words, which type of industry or
public works should be given
financial aid first—in present
circumstances financial aid would
almost automatically mean man-
power priority—in order to get
the tangle straightened out
quickly?
It would appear that trans-
port calls for a top priority.
Transport at present is unable
to shift all the coal that is being
mined in the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
area, and Victoria is talking of
long-term coal-buying contracts
with India. Coal is the key to
many of our present problems.
Its production, though increas-
ing, is still not adequate; but
obviously, at the moment, our
coal-transport facilities are even
more inadequate than our mining
efforts.
More coal, more transport
facilities, more food (including
wheat, meat and dairy produce,
for export as well as home-
consumption), more steel, more
factories, more power-houses,
more roads, more bridges
—all these things are needed
as a basis for overall in-
dustrial expansion. Without a
greater availability of these essen-
tials it is useless expanding credit
to “create employment” or to
cope with national works. We
must have this basic physical
economic foundation for any
monetary attempt to get any-
where. And, obviously, we must
have a great deal more output
per man each week, even if it
means restoration of the 44-hour
week. In our run-down indus-
trial condition the 40-hour week
is a complete economic
anachronism. Because of the 40-
hour week we are stumbling
along with one economic leg
shorter than the other.
If ever real economic planning
was needed it is needed now,-
especially in respect of public
works. It is no use whatever,
for instance, of Mr. Cahill,
Premier of N. S. Wales, throw-
ing the best part of a million
pounds of public money into a
State tileworks that has been
almost completely useless so far
as its original objectives are con-
cerned. It is no use spending
millions of pounds annually on
a mere payroll form of “full em-
ployment” that adds nothing to
our real well-being or capacity to
produce essential goods and ser-
vices. What we need are plans
to get the basic meahs of pro-
duction, in their proper order,
into first-class condition. That
done, provided everyone there-
after pulls his weight (and
doesn’t drop back in the collar
at the first sign of a return of
overfull employment), the credit
problem will very nearly look
after itself.
Wages and Shares
The projected increase of 12s.
in the Federal basic wage (and
higher interest rates) have had
the effect of dampening down.
the growing interest in invest-
ment shares. One stock in par-
ticular Bradford Cotton
listed in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne, which had risen from
30s. 6d. to 365. 6d. in a few
weeks, fell back sharply to 335.
6d., before edging up to 33 s. 9d.
At the same time the N. S.
Wales Government is sanction-
ing decontrol of clothing
prices—something that the trade
has been asking for a long time.
Some other States have already
freed clothing prices, without
adding to the cost of living.
Bradford Cotton’s Rutherford
(N.S.W.) weaving factory should
soon be in full operation, with
benefit both to output and costs.
The whole canvas-and-duck in-
dustry was recently given a large
order by the defence authorities,
which should help to keep plant
operating. The Australian
cotton-spinning and weaving in-
dustry is mainly interested in
industrial and defence - force
materials.
Metropolitan Cement ords.
have for some uncertain reason
moved up from around Bs. to
11s. Accounts made up to
seven months ago have not yet
been presented. The State Gov-
ernment has permitted the co. to
charge 50 p.c, more for its pro-
duct than others in the industry,
but private consumers are now
finding the cheaper cement easier
to get than it was a few months
back.
Another stock which recently
had shown sharp recovery was
F. J. Walker. But after rising
to 18s. 3d. it reacted to 16s. 9d.
F. W. Hughes, in both the food,
canning and woollen-textile in-
dustries (as well as being a
pastoral company), moved up to
19s. 9d. on announcement of a
tax-free interim at the rate of
6 p.c. p.a., but then dropped back
to 19s, 3d. in the market reces-
sion. Patons and Baldwins
moved up to 255. 6d., the
highest for some months. (This
stock is a promising holding pro-
position, though particularly
subject to wool-price fluctua-
tions.)
Bank of N. S. Wales shares
have been in the doldrums for
some time at around £37, which
is little more than the book-
value of the assets. The shares
return 4.3 p.c. Mauri Bros, and
Thomson fully-paids and con-
tribs. (B. 23/7/’52) moved up
strongly last week —the f.-ps.
from sales at 41s, 6d. to 445.
buyer.
Masonite, cum rights to the
new issue, sold at 505., yielding
5 p.c. on a \2\ p.c. div. basis.
John McGrath at 6s. 6d. yielded
6.2 p.c.
Many investors are now wait-
ing on ( a ) the Budget (promised
for August 6), and ( b ) annual
accounts from companies which
balanced at June 30.
At 255. 6d. the ord. shares in
R, B. Davies Industries give a
yield of £6 ss. per cent, if last
year’s rate of 8 p.c, is maintained.
The concern is the largest single
manufacturer of builders’ hard-
ware in the Commonwealth, and
it has a reputation for high effi-
ciency and for maintaining its
plant in very modem condition.
It has also linked up with the
Yorkshire Copper Co. in an
arrangement (through a sub-
sidiary company) for the manu-
facture of capillary brass fittings
for the refrigeration and other
trades. It has had a new capital
issue, held up by the Capital
Issues Board, and is contesting
the matter. The co. did an excel-
lent munitions job in the last
war.


MAKE FULL USE
OF A.N.Z. BANK
SERVICES
When you open your A.N.Z. Bank cheque
book to save time and inconvenience in
making business or personal payments
you know that your Bank will handle
every transaction efficiently. And at the
same time you are reminded that you may
make full use of all the other useful and
friendly services which A.N.Z. Bank has
developed for its customers.
A*N*Z
* * *
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Established 1835
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout
Australia and New Zealand, in Fiji and in
London. Agents in all parts of the world.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS i
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
0. 0. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original*
ASSETS WORTH £22,000,000 STAND
BEHIND YOUR INVESTMENT
IN
THE
SYDNEY
COUNTY COUNCIL
LOAN No. 51
AT
£4- 100%
This year, the Council’s income is expected to reach rate offered by a N.S.W. security of similar standi
£13,500,000. This huge revenue becomes YOUR since 1939.
security when your money is invested at the HIGHEST
The Loan is issued at par for 10 years, and is
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN NEW SOUTH WALES
It’s Easy to Invest Today!
You can obtain a Prospectus and application form from
• Any branch of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia;
• Your Stockbroker;
• The Council’s city and suburban offices.
The Loan will close on or before sth August, 1952,
and is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of
The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Taxes and “Welfare’*
Hopes of tax-relief for New
Zealanders have been so well
damped down before the August
Budget that all taxpayers, big
and little, except farmers, are
resigned to another year of
crushing rates, and even farmers
aren’t expecting much.
It’s a matter of simple arith-
metic, based mainly on a world’s
record “Welfare State” cost-
social security, Maorilanders call
it—of £33 a year for every man,
woman and child, every penny
of which has to come out of the
pockets of the people. If other
spending which Maorilanders
don’t classify as social security
is taken into the reckoning to
make the picture more complete
the figure is a good deal higher.
A while ago the 1.L.0.
announced from Geneva that
every Maorilander between 15
and 64 was coughing up £NZ69
yearly, against £stgss for John
Bull and £49 for Uncle Sam.
Australia was further back. It
isn’t easy to calculate how much
value N.Z. is getting for all its
sugar-coated State generosity and
paternalism, but there must be a
fair-sized leakage somewhere.
Yet if anyone from outside so
much as hints that this can’t go
on indefinitely the most sensitive
of Maorilanders immediately
want to hurl bricks at him, while
others listen in stony silence.
Yanks have been the most
critical. Well, whether M.L. is
on the right lines or not, it seems
clear, after 12 years of travelling
this road, that the Welfare State,
on the M.L, pattern, leads to
inflation and stands in the way of
any real attempt to reduce taxes,
which are breeders of inflation.
The acid-test for social security
will be hard times, and some
Maorilanders are asking what
will happen to the grandiose
system then.
Bank Advances
Trading banks in New Zea-
land have been well repaid for
their efforts to tide business over
the run on credit which began
with the import boom last spring
and is now subsiding. Over-
drafts were stretched as never
before, in spite of tighter
advances control, and interest
receipts, exchange earnings and
commissions have all been
buoyant.
For Maoriland’s biggest finan-
cial institution, the State-owned
Bank of New Zealand, the year’s
rise in advances was £l9 million
to £47 million (to March 31),
while profit made a modest gain
of £9269 to £416,548.
Among the reasons for the in-
crease in advances were the
general rise in costs and prices
and the flood of imports, bought
at the peak of the market. Im-
porters got more goods than
they bargained for, and there
was nothing for it but to borrow
to pay for them. The B.N.Z.
didn’t welcome this situation, it
says, but faced up to the demand
by extending assistance on a
temporary basis to its credit-
worthy customers to the maxi-
mum of its powers. No other
flexible system able to cope with
the abnormal rush was ready.
Tourist Hotels
If it’s outside capital—above
all, dollars —Maoriland wants to
lift its tourist tcgde out of the
rut it has been in for years, the
funds seem to be within reach
since Yankee capitalists began to
be interested in prospects. The
report is that “one large corpora-
tion has made preliminary
investigations and considers there
is a good opening to build
modern hotels in New Zealand,
particularly at Auckland and
Rotorua, and would be ready to.
allocate up to 15 million dollars
for such projects.”
The idea this group has isn’t
just to build tourist palaces and
hand them over, but to go into
business permanently in the
“Shaky Isles,” to which end it
would want at least a 50 p.c.
interest in the co. that owned the
hotels, along the same lines as in
Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and
other countries, where the idea
has been proved feasible and
profitable.
Controls are the obstacle.
These Yanks won’t have any-
thing to do with ventures unless
enterprise is to have a free rein,
and their offer is conditional on
scrapping the tight system of
controls which now binds the
hotel and tourist trade in the
Dominion. This is asking a lot
of Maorilanders, who have lived
inside a framework of controls
and restrictions for so long now
that they’re either scared of
freedom or are content to live
without it; but, if they once
made up their minds and gave
the tourist trade the chance it’s
waiting for, the boost to pros-
perity would soon act like a
tonic to their pound and put an
end to all their exchange
troubles.
Potatoes
Since Maoriland ran into a
potato shortage early in the year,
which has since developed into
a famine in the North Island,
prices of up to 2s. a pound have
been paid in the shops, and
Maorilanders have been shocked,
humiliated or disillusioned to
find they’ve had to lean heavily
on Australia for supplies for
several months.
At the worst, retailers have
“gone mad” in their scramble to
get a meagre ration of Australian
shipments arriving on their bare
market, and most N.Z. city-
dwellers have been scratching for
potatoes for months. Yet with
potato production at a low ebb
and so hidebound by" controls
that the dice are loaded against
recovery, Maorilanders have
been eating seed-potatoes to such
an extent that there have been
none lately for thousands of
home-gardeners who have been
looking for them, which is like
living on one’s birthright.
The story of price-control and
output in the potato industry has
been a sorry one of diminishing
supplies and ever-rising prices,
which has made potatoes in the
little Dominion among the
dearest in the world. Normally
the alluvial plains of Canterbury
and Otago produce the bulk of
New Zealand’s crop, with
enough surplus over South Island
needs to feed the North Island
for six months—from autumn
till early spring—and the North
Island in the past has tided M.L.
over the rest of the year. But
this production-cycle has broken
down to such an extent that it
seems N.Z. has a lean time ahead
until the structure is rebuilt.
Timber Surplus
What with shrinking export
markets and local demands
drying up in some directions,
Maoriland’s timber shortage is
now a thing of the past, and
everyone concerned, from
foresters and millers down to
housebuilders, is cagey in buying
or selling.
The biggest blow to the trade
this year has been a drop in
Australian orders, since many
millions of feet of pine in N.S.W.
bushfire areas have had to be
cut and sold on a market already
shaky due to financial tightness.
Before this knock N.Z. timber
exporters had grown into the
habit of thinking there was no
limit to the quantity Australia
could take, and the only snag
seemed to be shipping; but
they’re wiser now.
On the home front, tighter
credit is the bottleneck. This
swing-back follows a peak of
575 million feet for M.L. timber
production for the twelvemonth
ended March —50 million better
than in 1950-51 and 80 p.c.
higher than in the pre-war year.
In the post-war boom years,
N.Z. has made heavy inroads
into its quickly disappearing
reserves of native timbers like
rimu, matai and totara, for
which pine is now the only im-
portant substitute.
Some giant mills just running-
in have missed the boom, but
N.Z. Forest Products and other
lesser cos. figure out that before
long Australia will be back as a
buyer. Meanwhile it will be a
case of taking things easy, per-
haps for the best part of a year,
and keeping their fingers crossed.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Blue P.”: Here’s a woman who would
appeal to The Bulletin’s Big Mat.
She’s Lady Nunburnholme, chairwoman
of the English National Vigilance
Association, and she announces that the
association will no longer provide
chaperons at railway-stations to guard
girls coming into the big city. “They’re
quite capable of looking after them-
selves,” she says. “In fact, if anything,
it’s the young men who need protecting.”
”D’y' reckon Mum'll be Worried about us?”
“Oliver Filter”: When I was young
there was a kind of joke, probably the
forerunner of the “shaggy-dog” stories,
of which the only requirement was that
it be utterly pointless. It was generally
told to an audience, and the initiated
would laugh their heads off while the
uninitiated either looked blank or, if
they were afraid of being considered
dense, simulated hilarious mirth—which,
of course, improved the joke consider-
ably. The classic, and possibly ■ the
original of those stories, was a riddle ;
“Why is a mouse when it spins?” the
answer to which was “The higher the
fewer.” That “higher the fewer” became
a kind of a byword for a while, to be
tossed off as the answer to any awkward
problem or question, and I’m wondering
now if the bloke who first thought it up
had an awful and uncannily accurate pre-
vision of today’s sad and pointless story
about the basic wage and the things it
buys.
* * * ♦
“Becks”: The Olympic Games have
given a new zest to Sydney’s poster war.
One day last week “Sun” and “Mirror”
billboards stood side by side, offering the
passer-by his choice of news from
Helsinki. One proclaimed Aus. Eight in
Olympic Drama ; the other Marjorie
Jackson —Olympic Romance. It was a/
“Daily Telegraph” poster, though, that
took the prize for the neatest eyecatcher —
Marjorie, Shirley, Winsome.
* * * ♦
“Palette”; The Japanese prints exhi-
bition at the N. S. Wales National
Gallery has moved the critics to the usual
aesthetic ecstasies, and certainly a lot of
the prints are charming and surprisingly
humorous, notably Hokusai’s sketches
from life. But it seems a little early to
try to re-establish the cherry-blossom
legend; and I must say that, having
recent events in mind, what struck me
as most interesting about the prints was
their shallowness in comparison with
Chinese art and their frequent inclination
towards horror and insensitivity, a point
criticism has always overlooked. I mean
the monstrous child riding the hobby-
horse, the mother (possibly with the best
intentions) apparently digging some sharp
instrument into her child’s ear and, par-
ticularly, the ferocious heads of night-
mare which are so much like our ow r n
surrealism. To get the full range of
Japanese insensitivity from this aspect
you would need to see the traditional
erotic drawings which are mentioned in
the Gallery’s catalogue but which, of
course, are never exhibited.
* # * •
“J.O’C.”: Approaching centenary of
the Lindsay township, Creswick (Vic.), has
set the old-timers yarning. One tells the
story of the bell in the Catholic church:
In the days of gold a Frenchman plying
his trade of brickmaker on the slopes of
Springmount struck marital trouble,
assaulted the interloper, one Tom the
Reefer, and finally murdered him with a
pitchfork. Monsieur was sentenced for
life. When he died in jail it was found
that he had bequeathed £6O “for the
installing of a bell in the tower of St.
Augustine’s church.” So today the
sonorous call to prayer rings over Cres-
wick’s pleasant hills —from the repentant
murderer’s bell.
“Zake”: The haughty-looking old-girl
and her friend had gone into a long
huddle before coming to a decision;
finally the former turned to the patient
waiter. “We shall have,” she announced,
“a piece of middle-cut rump-steak well-
cooked—if there’s any blood runs out
of it we won’t have it. But we don’t
want it too well-cooked, you understand,
With it an egg—if you can guarantee it
is a new-laid one—poached, slightly firm,
and be sure it doesn’t break. Oh, and
some chipped potatoes. We want them
just barely browned and they mustn’t be
hard on the edges, and not thick ones.
That will be all.” The subsequent chin-
music coming from the table of the h.0.-g.
and her friend mercifully prevented the
occupants from hearing the order given
by the waiter through the door leading
to the kitchen: “Leather with rivets and
a silent cop for two, Herb.”
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”; Two cryptic words
scrawled in white chalk on a path in
Sydney’s Botanic Gardens: “Barking
pests!” I take it that I have hit on the
trail of that person—or educated cat —
whose slogan “Dogs stink! ” was observed
“The boss would like to see some back-numbers.”
by another “Society” scribe. Nobody
yet seems to have discovered who this
mysterious and indignant signwriter is,
but at least we know what’s biting him.
* * * *
“Soc”: I am grieved to learn, on the
confident say-so of “Pawang” (B.
23/7/’52), that “Shakspeare was lame,”
and, not ungrateful for the learned dis-
sertation “Pawang” bases on that sadden-
ing fact, I am hopeful he will clinch it
all by naming his authority. Not, I trust,
the one as tantalisingly left unnamed by
E. K. Chambers, who, touching on
Shakspeare’s poetical, metaphorical or
figurative self-application of the image of
“lameness” in the Sonnets, roundly com-
ments: “Many inept things have been
written about the Sonnets, but I think
the prize for ineptitude must go to the
gentleman who inferred from these
passages that Shakspeare was lame.”
* * *
“Clooter”: Every now and then some-
one who ought to know better declares
that the young people don’t like this
world and blame us older ones for it.
The chaplain of Edinburgh University
joined the chorus the other day, telling
A.B.C. listeners that young people weren’t
anxious for responsibility and leadership,
not easily swung into emotional move-
ments, but were level-headed and serious
because they were bewildered by the
“unstable society,” and felt it wasn’t a
very admirable world. The rev. gentle-
man, like too many others, has probably
forgotten that in his own youth the
society was as unstable and the world no
more admirable —to his elders. But to
him and his youthful mates it was a good
enough world, full of interest and amuse-
ment, and if he didn’t enjoy his youth
I’ll eat my hat. The plain truth is that
to children and young folk the present
time is normal and life is good. Youth
is usually far too busy enjoying itself to
worry how its world looks to older folk,
and probably the older folk talk such
rubbish because youth refuses to be old—
which, thank heavens, it will never be.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: An unprecedented thing
has horrified Melbourne —a visiting
virtuoso has said what he thought. The
thought may have been a trifle callow—
the frank virtuoso being the 16-year-old
violinist Michael Rabin —but at least it
was honest. He said that we were smug,
that audiences obviously didn’t know
much about music as they applauded be-
tween movements and that Australians
generally tried to appear as if they knew
more than they did. Asked what he
thought of critics he said, “Hilarious,” and
he ventured the suggestion that he knew
more about music than the critics. He
was promptly told that he was a con-
ceited, ill-mannered little boy who ought
to be slapped and sent to bed without
any tea for slandering a glorious country.
His manager apparently did spank him,
for the next day Michael apologised for
his rudeness and said he must have been
tired and cranky. There was no discus-
sion of the truth or falsity of his state-
ments, but aren’t we smug if we com-
placently accept the guff of virtuosi who
tell us we are a wonderful, art-loving and
understanding people, but react violently
when a youth of 16 tells us we are nothing
of the sort?
* • • *
“Roscoe”: Mention of Alice’s Adven-
tures Under Ground (B. 23 /7 / ’52) till
reading “Metax’s” par. I had not known
that Lewis Carroll had so titled the MS.
of Alice in Wonderland —reminds that
Carroll, though the two little fat con-
trariwise men Tweedledum and
Tweedledee were undoubtedly his own
creation, was not the coiner of the names.
Credit for that belongs to poet John
Byrom, who in 1725 gave it as his opinion
that there was no difference in the com-
posing merit of Handel and Bononcini,
at that time the rival exponents in
London of Italian opera, success in which
was then regarded as the apex of music
and musicianship. Each composer had a
large following.
Some say, compar’d to Bononcini
That Mynheer Handel ’s but a ninny;
Others aver, that he to Handel
Is scarcely fit to hold a candle.
Strange all this difference should be
’Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee.
Actually Byrom’s judgment was not as
rash as it would seem, for most of
Handel’s work of that period, like
Bononcini’s, has failed to endure. Ernest
Weekley, an authority on words, lists the
“tweedles” as coined words, made up by
Byrom “from the echoic sound of a
musical instrument.” If that is right the
dictionary meanings:— tweedledee, an
unskilful fiddler; also a shrill, piping,
high-pitched instrument, often used as a
contrast to tweedledum, a low-pitched
instrument —must have arisen since
Byrom’s day. But the words (with capital
letters) are most often used as Byrom
first used them.
* * * *
“Old Sweat”: Although it seems amus-
ing that an ex-15th-Panzer migrant
(B. 11/6/’52) should seek an ex-service-
man’s tobacco-issue in Australia,
stranger things have happened. After the
First War Italy took over a big slice of
the Austrian Tyrol—with the result that
Mussolini paid war pensions to disabled
ex-Austrian servicemen just the same as
to his own Italians. For all I know he
may also have given them equality in the
matter of a tobacco-ration.
* * * *
“Lawrence”: “Bo” is on the wrong
tack when he claims that the big chap
is easier to fit than the standard size (B-
-25/6/’52). In our Q-store there were
boots up to size 13, but a couple of years
after the war I spent two days in the
city looking for size-11 shoes, sandals or
sandshoes and couldn’t find a single pair.
Finally a travelling salesman took my
measurements, and my money, and
guaranteed shoes to fit. They didn’t. A
trip along the Murray from Mildura to
Echuca landed one pair of shoes at Swan
Hill. The following year I located one
pair at a George-street store and another
this year at Newcastle. Three pairs of
shoes in six years from about 200 stores
visited. Sox to fit seem non-existent-
I have to make my own. As for hats- it
appears that no one takes larger than
7i these days.
THE CHARGE OF THE GAS
BRIGADE.
“Sydney gas-bills and Sydney householders have
been hitting the roof, consumers complaining bitterly
against gas-pressure being so low at a time when
economic pressure is so high.”
Cubic feet, cubic feet,
No feet so fleet, as
Into the savings-banks
Ticked the gas-meters.
“Forward the Gas Brigade!
Charge for the gas,” they said;
Into the savings-banks
Ticked the gas-meters.
“Forward the Gas Brigade!”
Though we were all dismayed,
Though we thought meters were
Bunglers or cheaters,
O.urs not to reason why,
Ours not to make reply,
Ours but to use and buy;
Into the savings-banks
Ticked the gas-meters.
Housewives to right of them,
Housewives to left of them,
Housewives in front of them
Buzzed like muskeeters
Eager to sting and pounce,
Querying cash-amounts;
Into the savings-banks,
Into our bank-accounts,
Ticked the gas-meters.
“Look at the pressure there!”
“Half it’s gas; half it’s air!”
“Say, do you think it’s fair,
Charging us full rates for
Half-hearted heaters?”
Plunging through oven-smoke,
Straight through our ranks they broke;
Housewife and husband
Reeled from the awful stroke:
“That’s how they beat us —•
We don’t mind tick, but not,
Not what they mete us!”
Housewives to right of them,
Housewives to left of them,
Housewives behind them.
Buzzed like muskeeters,
Using their every ounce
Left, to put in the bounce—
“ Look at these vile amounts! ”
Back from the savings-banks,
Back from our bank-accounts—
All that was left of them —
Ticked the gas-meters.
When can their glory fade?
O the wild charge they made,
Those cash-receipters!
Shame on the charge they made!
Shame on the Gas Brigade!
Curse the gas-meters.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Looby”: The optimist picked up his
tax-forms at the office last week, scanned
them hurriedly and remarked to the
bloke behind the counter “Where’s the
bit that says how much the Taxation
Department should refund as conscience-
money?”
♦ * *
“F.S.”; Sydney National Gallery’s
offer of a world prize worth several
thousands for a sculptural work on the
theme “The Unknown Political Prisoner”
strikes me as absolutely ridiculous and
useless. The Sydney authorities couldn’t
have heard of the dismal results of the
Melbourne National Gallery’s attempt
some years ago to promote art by offering
a prize for the best depiction of some
Australian event of historical importance.
Even the few good artists who com-
peted painted worse than they did on
ordinary occasions, and the bad ones were
awful. The reason is that when a subject
is dictated the symbol comes first and art
last.
* * * *
“Jasby”: In the cabled case of the
man whose nose was bitten by a lobster
and got £lOO damages from the
crustacean’s owner, a Paris restaurant-
proprietor, my sympathies are all with the
lobster. On the facts, a diner complained
that the lobster on his plate wasn’t
fresh. The proprietor, rightly annoyed,
slammed down a basket of lobsters on
the table, protested that all his lobsters
were fresh and thrust one under the
diner’s nose with an invitation to smell
it. Whether the customer was tardy in
doing so or whether the lobster merely
thought he was, or whether the creature
shared the proprietor’s indignation at an
"Well, I must be going."
insult which applied to his tribe as much
as to the establishment, will never be
known, as he was not called as a witness,
but he promptly reached out and nipped
the customer’s nose. If the law that
allows a dog one bite applies in France,
obviously it is not extended to lobsters —
a deficiency which the French S.P.C A.
should surely look into. The court
awarded the fellow his damages, but the
unsung hero, who was probably served
up with mayonnaise long before the case
came to court, had demonstrated to the
world that 'a lobster cannot be insulted
with impunity.
* ,♦ * ♦
“Pip Tok”; That headless motor-cyclist
(B. 16/7/’52) recalls similar ghastly sights.
At the Battle of Assaye, a Mahratta
cannon-ball narrowly missed the future
Iron Duke and decapitated an orderly
who was riding immediately behind him.
What was left of the orderly remained
in the saddle for several minutes. Even
more extraordinary was the incident of
Captain Nolan, the staff officer who
carried the ambiguous order which
launched the charge of the Light Brigade
at Balaclava. Nolan rode forward with
the brigade, but was soon killed when a
fragment of a Russian shell pierced his
heart. Kinglake, the historian of the
Crimean War, says Nolan’s “form re-
mained erect in the saddle, his sword-arm
still high in the air,” but the horse turned
and galloped back upon the advancing
brigade. A most appalling cry came
from the body. Kinglake attributed this
to “those spasmodic forces which may
act upon the form when life has ceased.”
The sound was probably made by air
escaping through the chest wound.
* * * *
“Bo”: In the field of synthetics science
has so far, I frankly admit, come out
with flying colors. The sulpha-drugs and
penicillin were, when first discovered, far
too expensive for the ordinary man’s
purse, due to the scarcity of the stuff
from which they were made. It was not
until cheaper basic substitutes were dis-
covered by the chemists that they came
within reach of everyone. Now it is
cortisone, new sources making it almost
certain that soon its cost will be not only
a fraction of what it is now, but that it
will be available in quantity. Good
enough, as far as it goes, but surely
scientists can take a spell from mucking
around with such things and, for the
benefit of mankind, concentrate on the
development of one particular synthetic.
What a boon and a blessing it would be
for those who make the eating of apple-
pies and -tarts their favorite sport if,
instead of having their enjoyment of it
constantly diverted by the necessity to
dredge out the cloves, there were available
for the housewife-cook a synthetic clove
which, while injecting the fascinating
flavor, would dissolve and become one
with the pie!
* * * *
“Melb’n”: A feature of the latest Mel-
bourne floods was the recurring motive
of newspapermen in ducks meeting
schoolchildren who gave three hearty
British cheers at the news that their school
had been surrounded. The joy amongst
the kids in our district was unbounded
when they found their seminary an island
surrounded by brown, swirling waters.
The fact that 3ft. of mud and water had
invaded their own homes didn’t spoil
their pleasure in the slightest, and later
news that the teachers at our local high-
school had succeeded in struggling across
a broken footbridge and that school would
start at 10 o’clock brought a howl of
disappointed derision.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Many of the older railway
enginedrivers still dream of the days when
train-running incidents between stations
were known only to the train crews, and
a verbal explanation was sufficient to
cover most delays on the track. Progress,
however, deprived enginemen of their
latitude and saw the introduction of the
Locomotive Speed Recorder. This
mechanical device, in use on Victorian
and South Australian railways, records
on a revolving paper graph the pro-
gressive speed of the train and also the
duration of all time the train is stationary.
Thus, at the end of a trip, the graph will
reveal the exact speed and time the train
passed or stopped at any location en route.
Although enginemen regarded the speed-
recorder with disfavor when it was first
introduced, the device is now known as
the driver’s “friend.” On many occasions
a driver has successfully referred to the
recorder graph when defending himself
at an inquiry—such evidence is regarded
as indisputable.
* * * *
“Sackville”: How lucky we can be
sometimes! A woman beat me to the
phone-box by a short head. I prepared
for a long wait. But no! Her conversa-
tion opened with: “Is that you, Vi?
Listen, I won’t come down today, I've
got a cold so bad I can hardly talk.” I
got my pennies ready. Five minutes later
she was discussing her husband’s filthy
liver. At 10 minutes she was explaining
the proposed operation on Shirks inside,
The quarter-hour brought her to her
“They must he freezing."
neighbor’s dropped stomach. Twenty
minutes found her criticising Joan’s baby:
“It’s a fat baby, but not a firm baby.”
Three minutes later the first “ta-ta” came
up. After the eleventh she came out.
Twenty-eight minutes flat. I’m going to
get a lottery-ticket on the strength of that.
Talk about lucky—fancy if I’d struck
her when she could talk!
* * * #
“Spokeshave”: Victorian Education
Department has become a whale for
culture, and our local seminary is well up
in the movement. Neighbor’s daughter
came home the other day and told her
parents she was being taken on a tour
of the National Gallery with 70 other
schoolkids. The parents were delighted.
She returned with a postcard of Phar
Lap and a diorama with photos of
witchety-grubs and abos.
* * * ♦
“Villefair”: The bottle-walled house
mentioned in a recent Society par was,
I assumed, unique, but last week in a
garage at Auburn (N.S.W.) I saw that
another inventive mind had hit on a
similar idea. Inquiries established that
the owner intended to put a panel of
glass bricks in the gable to serve as both
a decoration and a means of admitting
light. Finding it difficult to procure
transparent bricks, he had just decided to
abandon the idea when inspiration came.
A co-operative bricklayer and a stack of
pickled-onion jars solved the problem.
Laid on their sides with the bottoms out
and the gaps between neatly flushed up
with cement, the homely jars are both
effective and decorative, which proves
that it pays to know your onions.
* * * *
“Melb’n”: Mrs. Neville Chamberlain
told a gathering of Victorians in London
the other night that her mother’s favorite
uncle, Robert O’Hara Burke, nearly made
her a wealthy woman through a piece of
land in Melbourne which the Govern-
ment had offered Burke’s family as recom-
pense for his expedition with Wills. Most
of the Victorians present had probably
forgotten —if they had ever known —that
Burke was an Irishman from Galway who
joined the Austrian army, then came to
Australia and was inspector of police for
seven years before joining Wills on their
ill-fated journey. The grant of land was
no doubt refused because it was on the
outskirts of the city. It is now in one
of the parts which industry and commerce
have turned into a golden acre. Another
Burke descendant had a different experi-
ence. The widow of an Indian Army
doctor with one daughter, she bought
with a few pounds of her uncle’s money
a large acreage beyond the outer suburbs
and started dairyfarming. Her daughter
loved cows and she loved horses. Every
time her daughter bought a cow she
bought two horses and her daughter
bought another cow to pay for the horses
keep, so she bought more horses. It was
a legend in the district that if you were
taking an old horse to the knacker’s-yard
you should lead it past Mrs. B.’s place
because she was sure to buy it to save
it from the slaughter. Thus they built
up a herd of cows and a lot of horses and
continued to live in the old shanty they
had erected when they first started, while
all around their ill-grassed and over-
stocked paddocks suburbia was growing,
First the mother died, then the daughter;
finally the land was subdivided. A son
w ho had some job or other at Geneva
copped the lot.
* * * *
“Other Fellow”: The challenge or
change is infectious. As economic trends
fluctuate, so economists word-phrases
vary. Time was when they advised wages
and prices should be stabilised, later
pegged; then frozen. During the war,
of course, it was fitting that they be
controlled. Not so long ago an expert
urged that “spending-power should be
skimmed off as the evils of inflation are
mounting.” Then we heard that “infla-
tionary pressures have been brewing”;
that “control of prices and costs would
do no more than throw an illusion of
stability over a situation growing rapidly
more explosive.” More recently the Gov-
ernment proposed “to draw off the deluge
of spending-power and put it, for the
time being, where it can do the least
harm.” Maybe in a year or two we will
be told that wages and prices should be
anchored, numbed, immutable or horri-
pilated; that spending-power should be
squeegeed off or whisked away ; that in-
flationary pressures have fermented ; that
anticipated stability was deceptive and has
erupted and that maelstroms of folding-
money should be tucked away in the old
oak chest! Don’t be too depressed.
There’ll still be some things you’ll be
able to get for the Australian pound —
florins, shillings, sixpences, threepences,
pennies and halfpennies.
* * * *
“P.C.M.”: No cable-trams were burnt
in the police riot in 1923 (B. 9/7/’52).
The trams burnt were the last horse-
trams, which ran from Sydney-road to
the Melbourne Zoo ; and they were never
replaced. Thus the event marked the end
of the horse-tram era. The replacement
of the cables by electrics was a steady
process, line by line, from the early
’twenties, till the last cable line, the
Bourke-street, closed in November, 1940.
• * * *
“Phwee”: At one of the big under-
ground stations in London we were
watching the comings and goings of pas-
sengers on the escalators. Shrieks of
laughter and catcalls arose when on the
“down” moving line appeared a middle-
aged, heavily-built, florid-faced fellow
doing his damnedest to go up. Inch by
arduous inch he succeeded in his battle
against the machine, pushing past wide-
eyed, laughing passengers travelling in
the orthodox direction. Perspiring, per-
plexed but determined, he finally reached
the top, and triumphantly presented his
ticket to the inspector. His terrific tread-
mill effort had been in vain. With un-
smiling face officialdom pointed out that
it could not accept the ticket at that
barrier as it was for “down” passengers
only. Worn from his exertions the man
could find no argument, and with a look
of utter disgust stepped, backwards still,
on to his escalator again and vanished
below. I’ve never decided if that chappie
was tipsy, plain foolish or doing it for
a bet.
AN INTERESTING THEORY.
“Bone-structure is the basis of all beauty.”
— Women’s magazine.
Young man, no false impression gain
By dimpled smile, bewitching lips,
Eyes that may sparkle like champagne,
The lovely curve of limbs and hips.
The shining softness of her hair
You may account as ravishing;
Her skin with silk you could compare.
Ah! Fall not for this patent snare,
For, really, they don’t mean a thing.
How could they, for they merely are
The outward signs that hit the eye.
Her features may look regular,
But what does that fact signify?
There’s only one way you can know
If beauty true is Jill’s or Joan’s
(Th’ inquiry mightn’t please ’em, though!)
And that’s to find out if they grow
A really decent set of bones.
Now, if she owns the sort of bone
Likely to contract or expand,
The lass you’d better quick disown —
Her beauty’s built on shifting sand.
And mediocre marrow might
Cause her foundations then to sag.
The future would be far from bright;
In fact, she soon must look a fright—
As Shakspeare didn’t say, a “bag.”
It well behoves the lover, then,
Through whom a streak of prudence runs
To wake up, and to get a yen
To study various skeletons.
And, ’stead of bending fatuous gaze
Upon some happily-taken snaps,
It’s best to study her X-rays.
Thus her bone-structure he’d appraise
And find her beauty there, perhaps.
Not only, though, to mushy realms
Need this new theory be applied.
Where surging verbiage overwhelms,
With confidence it could be tried.
The underworkeds and overfeds
Would offer living proofs that bone
With fine symmetric beauty weds —
You’ve noticed, though, what handsome heads
Most of our politicians own.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


THE BALL BEARING
9 PRINCIPLE
Applied to the
Pulverising of Fuel
The ball bearing principle is as essential to
a pulveriser as is the wheel and axle for
transportation.
The grinding element, being designed In the
form of a giant ball-race, ensures that the
balls remain truly spherical Irrespective of
the amount of wear they receive.
Cuts power consumption in half.
These features are only to
be found In the B. & W.
Type "E" Mill.
WSsm
■ ::
bd i
' '
I
i
fl
Top Right:
B, & W. Type "E" Mill
of i I tons per hour
nominal capacity.
Centre:
Grinding element of
B. & W. Type "E" Mill.
Above:
The large door in the upper half of the
Type "E" Mill allows free access to the
grinding zone, where there are no pre-
cision parts requiring lubrication.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all Stales
Complete Steam Raking Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
GUARD
C&OV
PROTECTA .
6unL-$fU RtyuixJ&fty
TILL
■
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd
SYDNEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust)
Two SCOTS AND
COAL
THEY were master and chief-
engineer respectively in the
sixty-miler Kiltie —Johnny
McNair the master, a Scot
of intense imperialist passions,
who swore by the British
Empire; Jamey McWheen,
engineer, who believed Bonnie
Prince Charlie should have been
king of Scotland, and anyway,
Scotland for ever. The Kiltie had
been carrying coal to Sydney so
long the signalmen at South
Head could recognise her by her
smoke. And on this run nothing
ever arose to cause international
tension between the bridge and
below-decks.
But the time came when coal
shortages in southern cities
caused cargoes to be diverted to
Melbourne and Adelaide, and
instead of reporting the Kiltie
as an arrival signalmen had to
report her as passed south or
passed north —instead of sixty
she had to cover something like
six-hundred miles. And this
meant a strict conservation of
bunker-coal.
The two shipmen were old
cronies ; but that they came from
the town of Malloch, north of
Inverness, and the railhead of
the north in Scotland, did not
prevent them quarrelling, some-
times in a friendly way, some-
times bitterly. Their form of
address in the ship was always
formal. For instance. Captain
McNair might say to the
engineer “Good morning, Mister
McWheen, and how’s the steam
today?” in a tone which sug-
gested that he would be
astonished to learn there was any
steam at all.
And McWheen would answer
“Good morning, Captain,”
civilly enough, yet with a bitter-
ness in his tone which often
comes when master and engineer
talk; “and the steam is as well
as can be expected on the miser-
able allowance we get,”
“And how are the bunkers
holding out?” McNair would
continue, an entirely unnecessary
question, designed to irritate the
engineer, who would reply:
“We have not touched bottom
yet. And how is the Breetesh
Empire the morn?”
“Fine, fine,” McNair would
say. “We’ve just had word by
radio that Italy has capitulated.”
“Has she indeed?” McWheen
would appear deeply interested.
“Then after this I presume we’ll
be shipping Eyeties in the
crew?”
A match to powder: “Indeed,”
McNair would shout, “I’ll never
have a foreigner in ma ship.
She’ll be Breetesh through and
through, while I’m her master,
indeed.”
“Well, well, ye need no’ fash
yerself,” McWheen would sooth
him. “We have not a foreigner
below —all good Hielan’men.”
ONE day off Gabo McWheen
happened to come on deck
for a breath of air, and, glancing
up at the bridge, caught the
skipper’s eye.
“Good day. Mister Mc-
Wheen,” the captain said from
his high post. “D’ye see what’s
cornin’ up astern?”
He pointed to a smear of
smoke on the port quarter.
“Aye,” McWheen said. “What
is she?”
“She’s the Wullie, an’ she’s
overhauling us.”
“The Wullie is?” McWheen’s
face went red, and he glared
astern at the smoke.
“Take a look,” the skipper
said. “You should know the
Wullie’s smoke.”
The Wullie was their nick-
name for a rival, the William
Onslow. Between these two
ships much rivalry blazed, and
much bunker-coal had been
wasted in their racing. The
Wullie was taking coal to the
same port as the Kiltie, and it
was a matter of honor to keep
the Kiltie ahead.
Muttering to himself, Mc-
Wheen went below, leaving a
grinning captain on the bridge.
The second-engineer was on
watch, a happy, careless man ;
but his face went serious when
McWheen said “The Wullie’s
coming up astern.”
“The Wullie? Hell!” The
second looked at the spinning
shafting to try to judge their
speed. “What’s she doing?” he
Eskcd
“Ninety to the minute. Thaf s
her limit on her coal allowance.”
“But we can’t let the Wullie
pass us. Can’t I kick her
along?”
“Aye, kick her along. Only
don’t say anything about it.”
He went whistling off to open
the throttle wider and dive into
the stokehold. Judging by
livelier sounds of shovelling he
had influence there. The cranks
lunged faster, the song Of steel
grew louder,
AFTER his lunch McWheen
had his afternoon nap, then
went down to the engine-room.
By this time they must have left
the Wullie far astern, a fact
evidenced by the slower speed
of the engines. But the third-
engineer, coming up behind
McWheen from adjusting the
bilge-pumps, soon dispelled this
happy dream. The third had
a grin on his face as he asked,
“Have you seen the Wullie?'’
“No, I didn’t look,” the chief
said. “We must have left her
far astern, since ye’ve slowed her
down.”
“No fear. She’s abeam —just
passing us.”
“Abeam? Lost, man; we’re
lost!” McWheen shouted, and
hurried up the ladder to have a
look. There was a steamer just
passing them, a big steamer —
not the Wullie but the
Katoomba, a seventeen-knot
liner. Hers was the smoke
McNair had reported to Mc-
Wheen. The skipper had fooled
him. Just to make him give his
engines more steam. Regardless
of coal allowance.
McWheen gave no sign that he
was annoyed. The ship went
alongside at Melbourne to dis-
charge her coal. Next morning
she must be away north again,
for another cargo of coal.
McWheen went ashore to meet
old friends, and at midnight he
returned to the ship well loaded
with good liquor, yet able to
steer, a course and speak clearly.
McNair was on deck, watching
the lumpers discharge coal. He
was an anxious skipper, always
eager to be on the move. He
greeted the engineer civilly,
“Good evening, Mr. Mc-
Wheen.”
“Good evening, Captain,” the
engineer replied huskily.
“Will ye be ready to sail by
dawn, think ye?” the captain
asked.
“Aye, I will that,” McWheen
answered, as he reached the top
of the gangway, “and whiles I
think on’t, I’ll tak’ this oppor-
tunity of telling you that ye’d
better keep forty tons of the
cargo coal in her.”
“And for why should I do
that?”
“For to get to Nobby’s. Ye
pulled my leg about the
Katoomba, but ye can’t pull the
Kiltie’s leg. She needs coal.”
“But forty tons, man! What’ll
the owners say?” He was almost
human in his appeal.
“How do I know? Ido know,
though, what they’ll say if we
drift into Port Kembla for to
get coal.”
“But how will the stevedores
know how much is forty tons?”
“That’s a question, I grant
you,” McWheen agreed. “But
that’s your affair. Captain. Ye’d
better stand by and watch that
forty ton is left in her—unless,
that is, ye can get the Katoomba
to tow us back to Sydney. Ye
seem very familiar with her.”
With this shot he was going
below, when the skipper roared
“I’ll be damned if I’ll watch for
forty tons to be kept in her!
That’s your damned business,
not mine.”
“As ye like,” McWheen said.
“It will be your funeral when
we stop in mid-voyage.” And,
laughing tipsily, he went below.
THE skipper did not keep the
forty tons in the ship. Early
next morning they sailed. There
was a coldness between master
and engineer which did not
appear to worry McWheen at all.
They passed Gabo without
untoward happening, then
Dromedary and Montague
Island. Soon Cape Perpendicu-
lar loomed ahead, and still the
Kiltie beat her steady way along.
At last, far ahead, some smoke
showed. The skipper knew it
came from the Wullie, their
deadly rival. What hope had
they of overtaking her, when
coal must be almost gone? Yet
he could not resist saying, when
McWheen came on deck for a
blow, “I see the Wullie’s smoke
ahead. But we have no chance
of beating her on this trip.”
“Are ye sure it’s not the
Katoomba?” McWheen coun-
tered. He had a look himself
and went below. Soon the
engines began to beat faster,,
faster, faster. The smoke from
the funnel rose high. Good
clean smoke it was, and the
skipper wondered how long this
burst of speed would last before
the engines died for want of
steam. But they did not die
down; rather they beat faster.
The Kiltie was overtaking the
Wullie —no doubt about that.
McWheen must be mixitig oil
with his depleted bunker's. The
fine, clear smoke bore out this
idea. Soon the Wullie was just
ahead. The Kiltie had bolted.
The skipper steered to pass
within speaking distance, and
when they were abeam he
hailed:
“What’s wrong wi’ the
Wullie?”
“What’s wrong with you ?”
the other skipper roared back.
“Why, your old coal wagon
must be logging over twelve
knots, she must, that.”
Then McWheen came on deck
to glory in the defeat of their
rival a humiliating defeat,
for the Kiltie soon left her
astern and went thrashing on
to the Nobby’s. There she
slowed down and swung into
her loading-berth at Carrington
long before the hotels closed.
McNAIR went down from
the bridge to talk to Mc-
Wheen. He was proud of his
ship’s exploit in out-steaming
the Wullie in so extraordinary a
fashion.
“Ye’ll come and have a dram
with me. Mister McWheen?” he
said.
“Aye, I don’t mind if I do,”
McWheen replied. “The ship
did well, Captain, thanks to
your clever navigation in
WOMBAT.
Ha there! old pig, old bear, old bristly and gingery
Wombat out of the red earth peering gingerly,
Was there some thud of foot in the mist and the silence
That stiffens whisker and ear in sound’s fierce absence,
Some smell means man?
1 see the dewdrop trembling upon the rushes,
All else is the mist’s now, river and rocks and ridges.
Poor lump of moveable clay, snuffling and blinking,
Too thick in the head to know what thumps in your thinking,
Rears in the rain
Be easy, old tree-root’s companion; down there where your
burrow
Dips in its yellow shadow, deep in the hollow,
We have one mother, good brother; it is Her laughter
That sends you now snorting and plunging like red flood-
water
To earth again.
N.S-W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
THE CROP.
We walked in the growing wheat;
With love we bewitched it.
With caresses we made a bag;
With kisses we stitched it.
The bag was well-weaved and
strong.
We wished and filled it;
Took the lugs and dumped the
hope hard
Taking care lest we spilled it.
And gladly we rolled in the
wheat:
Our love was fulfilled.
The seed was put firm in the bed
And none of it spilled.
Our love had grown in the soil
And ripened by sun.
It was a long sweet rest from toil
When harvest was done.
The harvest of love is a sowing
Of rare, chance seeds,
New-made of an ancient making
Of more ancient needs.
I told her the ground was
ploughed deep,
A good early fallow.
And worked on each fall of rain
Till the seed-bed was shallow.
I chose the wheat that went in:
I knew what was sown;
And knew what the harvest would
be
When the crop was grown.
0 here the ground was well tilled
But lavishly sown:
A million of seeds were cast in,
Not one of them known.
That which we’ve made of the
sawing
Will never be known.
Through years and a many
makings
We two will be lone.
1 chose you and knew what I
chose:
We each chose the other.
A father has care for his child
And love for its mother.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


“Bill’s on a good
wicket”
M
■
B
“Bill’s no fool. He’s in the Army and he says
he’s there to stay! He approached the problem
sensibly. He wasn’t fooled by a ‘big wage’ packet.
He wanted to know what he got out of it in hard
cash after all expenses were paid. He knew there
was pride and self-respect in wearing a Navy,
Army or Air Force uniform, but he wanted practical
benefit as well.
“Bill’s on a good wicket. He’s a tradesman, and
married, so there are plenty of extra allowances for
him. Wish I were young enough to go back into
the Army—it’s a great life and it has many big
advantages.”
Work it out for yourself!
Pay (after 3 to 6 months 7
training) at least
Food, accommodation provided.
Complete initial clothing issue
Medical, dental and hospital
attention
At least 3 weeks’ leave, with
concessions in fares and travel-
ling time
TOTAL £
fds
AND IN ADDITION the man in the Services gets . .
A gratuity or pension on retirement.
if Security and continuity of engagement at all times.
if Organised on-the-job training to increase skill and pay.
Enquire at the following without obligation:
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide: Richards Building,
99 Currie St. In Perth: 34 King Street. In Hobart; Franklin
Sq. In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Itsued by the Director-General of Recruiting
PF41.112.42
Roads like these need
Goodyear tyres
/
/jn
; ■
m
■
You ride in your car, but
you travel on your tyres.
In the city, the suburbs, or
away out in the backblocks,
you have a better chance of
getting there on Goodyear
Tyres. In fact, more
people, the world over,
travel on Goodyears, the
tyres that have a wider,
flatter tread, a stronger
cord body and huskier
shoulders. In a word,
built - in ruggedness for
more miles per tyre, more
safety per mile!
m
% ■
■
' < -...Jr ■
W'ZiMM
THIS HAPPENS...
When the stop light
flashes, you brake sud-
denly and, no matter
what the surface of the
road, your wide, fast
Goodyear treads help
your car to stop smartly,
smoothly and safely.
GET THERE ON A4>
good/ti/ui
BQ-D.QD2SII TYRES
Y OUR GOODYEAR DEALER NOW HAS STOCKS
y*
dodging the coastal current. I
feel we should celebrate.”
fe “Clever navigation, my foot,”
McNair snorted. Ye re pulling
mv let? Mister McWheen.”
“Ah’well” McWheen shook
his would not be sur-
nrised if I was I feel like
laughing all the time the way
we sailed past the Wullie—and
thpv alwavs boasting so—and
you not keeping the S forty tons
in the ship that I asked you to
do”
“How could I man?” They
were on the wharf preparing to
cros’ °the traffic and ’fuKiVe
hotel. “Would you have me sit-
ting up all night tallying the
coal till forty tons were left? I
douht if anv man could do it,”
he added '
“It was a bit hard, I’ll grant
you,” McWheen agreed. “Any-
wav we did it without that
coal’”
“Aye, but tell me, man, how
ve did it ”
Thev were in the bar with
j ■ , j j i ctinnor
drinks ordered by the skipper.
“Well, there s always a lot of
aITOyS ‘° haVS
“But you never did it on
sweepings, man!”
“No, maybe not. Well M
tell you. forward near
the forward hold is an old wee
bunker, too far away from the
fires, that’s never used today.
And when we were put.on the
long runs 1 just slipped a few
pounds of coal m there—picked
coal, only good coal, ye ken.
Best Maitland, not Black Jack.”
“That was good coal you
burned today.”
“That was. Hand-picked, you
might say. Just a bit out of
many ‘Be prepared ,is
my motto, Mac. The day will
come.'"
They were on their third
whisky now.
“Aye, I agree, the day will
come. Be ready,” McNair said,
Then he added “We gave the
Wullie a real drubbing, Mac. I
was just thinking that maybe one
day, when we get the old, wee
bunker filled with good coal
again...” he paused.
“A -we* \x;hnt then?”
Aye, what .
You 11 think me boastful,
the
“ b taor;o?oi h spred“
McWheen shoved out a grimy
paw.
Jut it Aere, man; put it
there, he said.
IT was dusk when they went
1 back, arm-in-arm, to the ship
As they walked along the wharf
they saw, coming up j n«r,
the lights of the William un-
slow hurrying to her berth.
“Man,” McNair laughed “we
gavethe Willie a real hiding
dldnt we, Mac/ wail till we
get a crack at the Katoomba
again! Mac, man, what did ye
put in that bunker to make her
go?
“Well., if you must know
Mac whispered hoarsely, it was
shale, what they make petrol or.
I picked it from a cargo we
carried long ago. f Great stuff to
hvenup - h h
But, man, you jmgni nave
blown up the ship!
“Aye, and thats just what I
felt like doing when we scraped
the bunkers dry off Gabo, he
lauched tipsily. “Man, ye
b seen t u e fl ames
should nave seen me n
“I did,” McNair said “They
rSe“wu"° P -
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications
$
returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
oe reiumea um v
L.F.: Too frail for us J.C.M.F.:
“Bubbles of Gloom” is pardonable it
you are very young T.Y.: Under
Your Hat” had better be kept there.
J.S.L.: No aboriginal flavor m
“Ati Abo Phantasy”.. . .F.H.D.: But
how much does it add to Keats.
J.W.W.: Well, you’re a trier;
The Stockman.
The stockman has his troubles, his set-
backs big and small;
Maybe a broken stockwhip; or a horse
with saddle-gall;
He always has a kelpie, a smart and
faithful dog; . ,
He might have lost a trusty friend
killed by a, falling log.
He might have aimed at dingoes, but his
rifle’s held a dud ;
Or drove across the Moree plains and
bogged in thick black mud;
Or met a wee bush orphan, with none to
care for him.
I saw one drown in Queensland, because
he couldn’t swim.
He knows the old bush saying it goes:
“Aw, go ta Hell!”
So with this well-known sentence, we bid
him fond farewell.
O.M.: All right, we’ll make it
an Agony Column for you; it is, in
a way, anyhow:
In my youth I wrote a touching love-
poem (copy enclosed). A good-class
magazine in N.Z. printed it. That poem
drew a pleasing response from a young,
unknown engineer in South Africa. He
was even a Scot! Now I am a widow,
personable, healthy and self-supporting but
lonely. Will you be a sport and print the
enclosed fragment, “The Lonely Heart,”
and see what happens?
The Lonely Heart.
Ohl unknown man who somewhere lies,
Alone and undelighted.
To you my kindred spirit cries
As traveller benighted.
Though half of life and more be spent
And golden turns to grey,
The heart which still on love is bent
Can charm the years away.
A.E.McA.: A pleasing little lyric
which does credit both to you and the
lady; but it’s too light a breeze to
blow into print F.H.F.; “Before I
disappear for ever X would like to
show these two poems.” Where are
you olf to —over the Gap or just
back to fairyland? Anyhow, the
talking water in “The Marsh” was
worth putting down before your exit.
D.W.S.: We isolate the opening
couplet for your own inspection:
A gum-stump is broken far out in the west,
Truncated and lonely and shorn of its zest.
J.R.S.: We’ll wait for the grass
to grow J. 8.: A touch of promise
in both. Isn’t the small boy too old
for that baby-talk? W.M.F.: Your
lyrebird wears too many feathers from
other poets—-e.g., “liquid loveliness.”
. ...M.F.: Some originality in “The
Sea”; not enough movement....
T.R.St.V.; Well, they’re first-attempts.


ABORIGINALITIES
Must be over 40 years ago
that a mob of goats escaped from an
E. Gippsland (Vic.) station into the rough
bush laxiges; not long ago a bushman
with four dogs came on a couple of the
shaggy survivors. The dogs gave chase,
and the goats made for the steepest slopes.
Knowing the terrain they mostly retained
a short lead, clambering over shale-beds
and jumping from boulder to ledge, but
with four determined dogs on their trail
their run looked like leading to a certain
finale. However, they kept at it, working
always round the face of the mountain
as though heading somewhere. Even-
tually they reached a narrow ledge that
led upwards against a rock face, widened,
levelled at the top, then descended
narrowly in a semicircle on the further
side. Up the ledge went the goats, and
there, tail to tail on the top, they stood
at bay, challenging the dogs that must
approach one at a time up the north or
south ledge. The first mong was tossed
into space. The others halted, barked
and howled, knowing they were beaten.
Now how did people get the idea that
goats are goats?
* * * *
“Old-timer”: I’ve seen some comical
sights in my time, in the bush and in
less attractive places, but it remained for
a Sydney suburban lawn to stage the
winner—a willie-wagtail without a tail.
Title little chap wasn’t a mite dashed by
his lack, though he seemed a trifle self-
conscious at the human laughter coming
from the veranda. He hopped and
danced and swayed and flirted his rear-
end with the usual gusto, and if a bird’s
bearing can express anything his ex-
pressed this; “Watch, I don’t need a
ruddy tail.” He looked funniest when
making those short, characteristic runs
with wings half-spread, for there was no
tail to fan cheekily upward and nothing
could look more absurd than a wagtail’s
rear-end with nothing on it. What he
couldn’t do was hover; every time he
tried it he sideslipped and had to do a
sort of double-roll to prevent a crash.
He lives in the vicinity and we’ve got
bets on whether the tail will grow again.
* * * *
Ingel Barr”: Chalker, in charge of
the school at Bloodwood Bend, was also
first-aid expert for the locality. One
morning the Gragum twins blundered
through the schoolroom-door a full half-
hour earlier than usual and in an
advanced stage of exhaustion, gasping
“Please, sir, Daffy got bit with a snake
a five-foot whip!” Remembering Daffy
as a tough, resourceful maiden of 15,
Chalker snatched up his outfit, swung
toward the door and rapped out “Where
is she?” “Out at’ome.” “Oh!” Chalker
halted in mid-stride. Home was three
miles away up a scrubby creek. “When
was she bitten?” “Yes’d’y evenin’.” “Oh l
How is she?” “Aw, she’s all right,
thanks.” So Chalker relaxed and replaced
his equipment, realising that the boys for
once in their lives had had news, and, like
the immortal Greek, had run all the way
to announce it.
* * * *
“Yungaburra”; Having used Lake
Eacham as a swimming-hole on and off
for the past 15 years I can confirm that
the level does vary with the climatic
conditions (B. 9/7/’52). As to the levels
of Lake Eacham and Lake Barrine (not
Barien) being the same, I have heard
the statement often enough, but have
never heard of scientific proof being
proffered. As a layman, though, I’d say
that Eacham is a shade higher than Bar-
rine. And as for the gin who allegedly
fell into Lake Eacham and turned up in
Barrine some weeks later, I’ve met a
dozen people who knew a cove whose
father helped pick the body out of either
lake (the legend works both ways), but
this is the first time it has been a gin
—previously it has been in turns a love-
lorn choom, a mad stockman, a German
during World War I and a dairyfarmer
during a drought. Against the possibility
of such an occurrence is the distance be-
“And this one, Sarge, claims he's been prospecting for uranium in the
Rum Jungle."
tween the lakes (about six miles); the
fact that in an “unbottomable” lake a
body would not sink to the alleged “pipe-
line” between them ; and the fact that
there is no current in either lake. But
a more interesting mystery I would like
cleared up is that of the Crater, a vol-
canic blowhole between Atherton and
Ravenshoe on the Upper Tableland. A
visiting geologist whose main interest is
oil broke his journey to examine this
phenomenon, and informed me that the
presence of blue clay in rock-form had
interesting possibilities. Visions of a
second De Beers in N.Q. prompted me to
ask him whether or not it was worth
developing. I was met by the unsym-
pathetic remark “I’m an oil man let
“Any luck?”
some specialist look into it.” I’m pre-
pared to lay odds that there are more
diamonds in the Crater than there were
ever gins, stockmen, lovelorn chooms,
etc., who have made subterranean trips
between the crater lakes.
* * * ♦
“Kros”: Agree with “Bass” (B.
16/7/’52) that mankind will have to
“farm” the sea much more intensely than
has been done —unless, somehow or other,
the world’s population is drastically
reduced in the fairly near future. For the
land may soon be unable to support
present numbers; with the dumping out
at sea of waste and the carrying-away of
topsoil to sea by the winds the land is all
the time being despoiled and the ocean
depths enriched. To take greater supplies
of our‘food from the seas would help to
redress the balance. America is not the
only country attempting scientifically to
increase the seas’ food-wealth and facili-
tate its “harvesting.” The International
Council for the Exploration of the Sea
was founded at the start of the century;
each member-country (mainly European)
built laboratories and research-ships and
conducted various investigations. England
has a sizeable fish-laboratory at Lowes-
toft and several marine-labs, still on the
job. The sea-vegetation mentioned by
“B.” is known as “plankton”—it consists
of microscopic animals as well as plants.
Many fish (and also the whales) feed
exclusively on plankton, which can thus
be described as the basic food-supply of
all sea-creatures. The English marine-
labs have carried out many experiments
on plankton, as its importance is recog-
nised. Incidentally, I believe the Sar-
gasso Sea is not the sea-“desert” “B.”
says it is—sea-birds hover there aplenty,
which must betoken the presence of a
numerous finny population.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”; Wandering thither from
W.A., what struck me about HovelTs
tree on the bank of the Murray
at Albury was what an insigni-
ficant item of herbage it is. Seemingly
it was an adult tree when Ho veil marked
it in 1824, and it has hardly grown since.
It has been doctored by tree-surgery—
cement keeps it standing—but purely as
an example of timber it is up to mud.
Now if a jarrah or a karri had been
standing there 130 years it would have
been something to look at. After roam-
ing around most of the rim of Australia
I returned to W.A. satisfied that the
south-west corner of that State —it is
larger than the whole of Victoria—was
the spot chosen in Australia by Nature
to grow her trees. And how they do
grow! One can almost see a jarrah or a
karri seedling putting on height. A 20-
year-old jarrah will make good sawing
timber. And even exotics share the same
luxuriance. Moreton Bay figs racing to
maturity become road- and building-
foundation wreckers, palms become
monsters that shout for removal lest they
bring disaster, while it is questionable
whether the Norfolk Island pine on its
.home ground can match the shapely
beauty and height of those transplanted
to W.A. It must be either the air or
the underground water, for just about
everybody agrees that the soil around the
western rim is the poorest of stuff.
* * * *
“Byram”: Away back in the dream-
time all the birds in the land were gaily
colored. The turkey, who was a surly
fellow, and too lazy to sing or fly very
far, was very jealous of the birds singing
in the trees. One day when he was
annoyed with them he went to the
smouldering-oak where the aboriginals
lit their fire-sticks for lighting their camp-
fires—in those days all fire came from
this strange tree. From there he set the
great forest ablaze. Never before was
there a fire so fierce. Some of the birds
took shelter in caves and among rocks.
Many became frightened, and flew to the
seashore, where they plunged into the
ocean to escape the fierce heat. There
and then the birds in the cool waters
became fish. They still retained all their
gay colors, their wings turned into fins,
and on occasions to this very day some
still use their fins as wings to fly from
danger. That is how many fish became
colored as the rainbow.
CON’S SONG.
[No figure is better known in Broome today than
that of Con Gill. He came from the West Indies
in the early days of pearling.]
Singing in the sun by Roebuck Bay,
Con’s only middlin’ now, but here to stay. '
Plenty men come to this little white town —
Some gone home and some gone drown,
Some gone crazy and some stay on,
But nobody stop so long, like Con.
Nineteen hundred—round ’bout there
I come here first with long, black hair—
Same gold rings in same brown ears—
Carried ’em goin’ on eighty years!
The folks here then—old Con can’t tell
Which gone heaven and which gone hell.
The land I was born —ooooh! —too many poor—
Empty stomach and young heart sore,.
But the wise white birds that come from the sea
Talk about great, rich lands to me—
Not too much people, plenty space.
Con want to go where a man got a face.
Good boy, smart boy, your old mother sick.
Make her some money and come back quick!
Wind in the white sail, wind in his hair,
Gone to seek his fortune the Lord knows where.
But the years go fast and the money come slow;
Don’t like the cities where the big ships go.
When the grey winds whistle a man must run.
Leap on a lugger and sail for the sun—
Sail till the wnite birds, wise birds say:
“Home brother, here brother, here you stay!”
Poor old mother she sick and die
But the pearl-sea smile and the time sail by.
White man, yellow man, black man, brown —
AH in together in the little white town.
Luggers he out on the big, blue tide,
Some pearl honest and some go snide.
White man wink and yellow man nod,
For the pearl is Satan and the pearl is God.
Jap go deep to the cold sea-bed
Till his heart take cramp ana his limbs like lead.
Get rich quick, and go home soon—
Sail on the tail of the last monsoon!
Push off the saki and the rice from shore
For the souls of the lost they don’t see no
more!
Feast of the lanterns for the graves on the hill,
But the living dive down to the deep sea still.
Japanee go when the war drums call,
Hardly anyone stop at aU.
Con see the pearl-shell bay run red,
Cry for the past and bury the dead!
Pray for the peace! Ooooh! She come all
right—
Straignten up the buildings and paint them
white!
Yellow man gone and brown Malay
Do the job more slow for the more good pay.
times tney change in the little white town,
But the luggers go out and the men go down.
Noooo! Con don’t marry, but he got two
eyes—
He seen things—ooooh! You be surprise! . . .
But the kids grow line by the good, jaae sea—
PbiJippina-Chinaman—Abo-Singalee;
And no one go hungry—everybody feast
When the luggers roll home on me big south-
east.
Work and watch, and the years flow on—
Nobody here so long, like Con.
The new men come and he hear them say:
“That old man sick—better send him away!”
Whaaat! Down south where the cold winds
bloooow?
The old bones shiver and my head say
“Noooo! ”
The land where my mother toil out her days
Gone lost with her boy in the far-oti haze.
Con just middlin’ but folks say—“Ooooh!
There goes a good man— a man we knoooow !”
The white birds tell me—those birds don’t lie —
This my home town. Here I die.
W.A.
MARY DURACK.


Now, for the first time, I
available in Australia •
o
the sensational new treatment for relief from
GOUT, RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, FIBROSITIS
Don’t be mistaken I It’s 10
to 1 those pains and aches
in joints and limbs from
■which you suffer are due to
a “gouty”' condition —the
result of urates forming
through excessive uric acid
in the bloodstream.
Generally the symptoms are
first noticeable in your hands
and feet or old injuries to
the joints and, for your own
sake, you must not neglect
these warnings. Unless this
condition is checked, your
elbows, knees, ankles or other
joints will become swollen
and inflamed, you may suffer
unbearable agony and
eventually become crippled
through Rheumatism or other
more drastic complaints.
Colchisone dissolves and eli-
minates the urates and rids
the blood of uric acid, help-
ing to remove the cause of
your trouble. It brings
positive and lasting relief ,
FEOM YOUR CHEMIST
PRICE 30/-
f or several months’ supply
( including valuable food
chart )
If y OU haw any difficulty in obtaining supplies, write to the Sole Australian Distributors:
Rickard Medical Products Pty., Ltd., 55 York Street, Sydney.
r
tm
m
■ ■■■■■■:■
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was trying to
work an ancient hand-pump, and wasn’t
getting on very well. “Needs a new
washer,” I remarked, as he labored
mightily with little result. “Well, it ain’t
goin’ t’ get it then,” he snorted. “The
thing’s alwiz wantin’ a new washer; this,
or the sheep-syringe or the cap on that
water-tin.” He renewed his attack on
the pump, and succeeded in getting a
dribble of water down his boot. “All
right, but it won’t work without a
washer,” I reiterated. “Well, they should
make things that don’t need new washers
in ’em all the flamin’ time,” he growled
indignantly. “ ’Tain’t reas’nable. What’s
this blasted thing care if a bloke gets ’is
head blowed half orf, or dies o’ cold.”
He pumped savagely for a few minutes
longer, then threw the ancient contrap-
tion on the ground. “Aw, cut another
washer for it then, will y’?” he decided
disgustedly, tossing his hat in my direc-
tion, “while I take the blasted useless
thing t’ bits. An’ cut it as near the edge
as y’ can, Sol,” he added worriedly.
“Gripes, at this rate a bloke’ll ’ave no
flamin’ ’at left before it’s ’alf wore out!”
* * * *
“Scran”; Before switching from the
cold war to a hot one against the herds
of pestiferous goats that infested the west-
ern N.S.W. town to which I had not
long come I inquired of one of the locals
as to their ownership, just in case. He
grinned. “No one owns ’em,” he said,
“At least, until you shoot one of ’em,
then the whole town claims him!”
At-..-'**
“Irving”: The unscathed survival of
“Northerner’s” petrol-steeped abo. (B.
2/7/’52) is an illustration of the queer
tricks sometimes played in the combustion
of the generally explosive spirit. As a
youngster employed in a w,-Q. country
town I gave a visiting auditor directions
as to where he could find the kero, to
feed the lamp by the aid of which he
intended to work long into the night.
After the first night he complained that
the lamp must be defective, since, though
it gave a splendid light, it burned out in
an incredibly short time. I then told
him where to find the reserve stocks of
the fuel. Not till some weeks after he
had departed did there occur the explosion
provided by the boss’s discovery that some
adjectival blank had drained every
skerrick of petrol from the tins forming
his reserve cache in the storeroom.
“Eurimburra”; Old Peter, an expert at
the game, had plaited a stockwhip for
Charlie Anderson —a beauty of eight
strands of kangaroo-hide with a perfect
Turk’s-head and carved wooden handle.
Charlie
fondled it
and looked
around for
s o me thing
to try it
out on.
His eyes
lit on Joe,
a big old-
man kan-
garoo. The
last of his tribe in the district, he led
a now-protected existence, despite the
curses he earned for crawling through
fences and generally tramping on crops
and vegetable-gardens. A favorite feed-
ing-ground was a small timber-ringed
cultivation paddock just below Charlie’s
house. Everything was in Charlie’s favor,
the wind was right and the big ’roo, deaf
as a beetle, was feeding against the timber-
belt. Charlie moved from tree to tree
until within striking distance and, with
the whip coiled, took a terrific chop at
old Joe’s rump, but, unused to the whip,
misjudged the distance and locked the
lash around the butt of the big ’roo’s tail.
Hanging on to the prized whip, Charlie
lasted only a couple of bounds as old
Joe did a thing he hadn’t done for years
—cleared the cultivation fence by a
couple of feet. Trailing the whip, he
lit out for the Shoalhaven gullies and
stayed there for three months. When he
did come back he forgot to bring the
whip.
* * * *
“Old Chris”: Science has more know-
ledge of the toxic qualities of plants than
“V.” (B. 18/6/’52) thinks. About 35
years ago F. M. Bailey, then Queensland’s
Government botanist, and his son Jack,
his assistant, discovered that all Australian
native fodder-plants develop prussic acid
at one stage of their growth, usually in
small quantities and often only for a
few hours, but occasionally in large
enough quantities to cause stock-losses.
In 1933 T. B. Paltridge, then doing ex-
perimental work at Koonamori (S.A.) for
Adelaide University, found that in some
cases two different plants, neither of
which contained prussic acid, produced
large quantities when mixed together. If
“V.” bruises these plants (or, if necessary,
the different varieties of plants growing
in the same locality) and tests the sap
“Us bush blokes can turn our hand to anything at a pinch.”
with a piece of litmus-paper, he will
soon find the cause of the stock deaths,
and also, of course, when it is safe or
dangerous to put stock in certain pad-
docks.
* * * *
“Naturala”: In reviewing the possible
reason why red deer have failed to mul-
tiply in the hilly country around Pinjarrah
(W.A.), “Bass” (B. 2/7/’52) rightly picks
the paralysing zamia palm, then asks why
the kangaroo has not also fallen victim
to the allurement of its frond and nut.
The answer is that the ’roo, being an
indigenous animal, knows better. Parent
animals teach their young what to avoid.
This is illustrated by the camel.
Scattered all over the dry inland, growing
wherever is seen trace of verdancy, is
the desert wallflower (Gastrolobium
grandiflorum), deadly to ruminants of
any kind. Camels on the goldfields tracks
died in plenty from eating this tempting
plant: the last-minute desperate treat-
ment being a heavy emetic of soapy
water, not readily obtainable in the situa-
tion, together with bleeding by slicing the
ears into shreds. But survivors learned
quickly to leave the plant alone. Now-
adays herds of wild camel, donkeys and
brumbies roam the same deserts, too
wise, like the ’roos, to eat of its numerous
poison-plants. Animals have their own
way of communicating such information,
as anyone who has waged war against
rats knows all too well.
“Shamuseen”: Those few red deer
liberated 50 years ago in Victoria and
whose progeny never exceeded 100 (B.
2/7/’52) were far less virile than a
similar number liberated a century ago
by the McConnells on their pioneering
property of Cressbrook in the Brisbane
Valley. Spilling over the main range into
the South Burnett and Wide Bay water-
sheds, the descendants of the Cressbrook
deer today reach pest proportions on
occasion and provide many a venison
breakfast at pubs in the South Burnett.
I don’t know the position today, but 10
years ago deer were fairly plentiful on
Friday Island in Torres Straits, where
their progenitors were brought from Java
by the pearl-shelling Hockings of Thurs-
day Island in the halcyon days of the
Torres Straits shelling-fleets.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were camped at a
turn in the road from Hopetoun tc
Willenabrina (Vic. Malice) when a hood-
iess tourer pulled up and a big, hearty
bloke in a battered hat and working togs
yarned briefly and drove on. Mat
thoughtfully watched him go, but didn’t
comment. A little later the same car
appeared, only this time a young sapling
drove it and an elderly woman sat beside
him. She talked to us for a bit, while
the sapling grimied bashfully, then off
they went. “What do y’ make of that?”
Mat asked me, but I hadn’t a clue. About
4 o’clock the day cooled off and I pro-
posed we get going. “Hang on, mate,”
Mat said, and hardly got the words out
when the tourer turned up again, this
time with the original driver and the
lady. They talked to us some more about
this and that. As soon as they had gone
Mat said, “It can’t be far, you wait
here,” and headed for the ton of a near-
by sandhill. I waited. After about an
hour and a half he came back and bustled
me off on the road back to Hopetoun.
“Their ranch is about a mile in off the
road,” he told me. “They was lookin’
us over. I got in a patch of scrub a
furlong or two from the house. There’s
three grown-up girls; s daughters, I
reckon. Come on, we got V be ten miles
away before dark.” “What’s wrong?”
“Don’t be a ruddy fool, mate,” he
snapped, “This is file Mallee, ain’t it?
That old bloke was a German cocky,
wasn’t he? Haven’t y’ heard of the
blokes that come here workin’ for
German cockles, get captured an’ before
they can get out they got a missus an’
half a farm on their hands.” We escaped.
* * * *
“Ceg”: I have known two pet galahs,
each of which had as his residence a
p.-0.-w. camp. His favorite sport of
pulling the pegs out of clobber which
had just been washed and hung up earned
one the fierce animosity of the officers’
dingbats who had to do the washing over
again. He could
hold his own in
vituperative
slamming matches,
with the special
advantage of being
able to swear in
Italian and Japan-
‘ese as well. The
other was instru-
mental in foil-
ing a prisoners’
plan to escape.
From his elevated
tower a sentry
noticed cocky slowly walking across a
yard and stopping every now and again
with his ear cocked to the ground. The
sentry, quick on the uptake, had investi-
gations set in train with the result that
some tunnelling operations were dis-
covered.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: Will anyone back
me up? Down here in Victoria,
where white-ants are so small you
almost need a magnifying - glass to
see them, blokes think I’m putting
one over ’em about the wood-eaters up
north. My story is that, camped in the
wet season beside the Walsh River, whose
waters flow on to meet the Gulf of Car-
pentaria, I had a bedside table made by
driving four stakes into the ant-
bed floor to hold a packing-case top. On
the table I put four books. A few days
later, lying on my bunk, I was dis-
turbed by a grating sound, which I traced
to termites which had riddled the books.
Those insects were three-quarters of an
inch long. Documentary corroboration,
please. Until I get it I’m not game to
say any more or tell how white-ants bring
down telephone-poles in the Cape York
Peninsula.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: As a long-retired
Golden-Miler I was interested in “Edx’s”
account of the invasion of the 3000-ft.
deeps by the cockroach (B. 2/7/’52). In
my time an equally-incredible insect used
to interest us around the surface-plant.
Fire-beetles, we called them, from their
habit of roosting on anything extra hot.
The front of a wood-fired boiler was one
favored place ; but the special favorite
was around the bottom rings of the steel
chimney-stacks which connected with the
boilers and the white-hot traverses of the
ore-roasters —places upon which it was
impossible to press a human hand. The
insects were much the same size as the
’roach.
« * * *
“Harbel”: It’s hard to believe that a
quail and an elephant could have any-
thing in common, but I’ve discovered they
have. A pair of quail enjoyed the ran
of my aviary ; they were obviously quite
happy, but had not done anything about
perpetuating their species. I was given
another pair and, thinking a change of
partners might be better all round, I took
the cock bird out and placed him in
another aviary with the newly-acquired
hen. The arrangement seemed to find
favor with them both; but from the
moment I put the stranger in with the
old hen she proceeded to make his life a
misery. With a husband’s fellow-feeling
I tried to protect him, but the tyranny
still went on. However, I didn’t realise
just how bad it really was until the
morning I found” the poor little creature
dead—-literally henpecked to death. The
same day my daily reported that the
female elephant at Taronga Zoo had
objected so strongly to the advances of
a lovelorn jumbo that she had broken
off his 36in. tusk. What was it Kipling
said about the female of the species?
BANKSIA.
The snarling winds that shoreward blow
Scar the red cliff, bruise the steel sea,
Shape this grey banksia; look, then know
Its twisted trunk is part of me.
These writhing limbs my agony,
These grasping hands’ blind clutch at sense,
These hard, curved leaves my sophistry,
These flowers’ stiff and brown defence
Shall stay with me . . . yet when the sting
Of cleansing salt in this sure wind
Lashes my cheek, to rocks I fling
All fear. Grow, storm’s tree, in my mmd.
N.S.W.
E. CEE.


A BEST-SELLER TO READ
EVERY MONTH
£5-15-0 Worth of Books
for £2-10-0!
A sub. to the British Book-of-the-Month Club will bring
— __ you, each month, a special edition of a recent top- ___
seller at much below normal price. Books for coming
months include—
• RAIN ON THE WIND
• DANCE AND SKYLARK
• THE YEARS OF PERIL
• THE CONSUL AT SUNSET
• THE PAPER PALACE
• THE MEANING OF TREASON..
Walter Macken
John Moore
Arthur Bryant
Gerald Hanley
Robert Harling
Rebecca West
There are optional choices as well, and a list will be forwarded
on request.
SPECIAL. BEAUTIFULLY BOUND EDITIONS
OF WINSTON CHURCHILL'S
• “THE GATHERING STORM”
• “THEIR FINEST HOUR” at 11 /6 each
• “THE GRAND ALLIANCE”
Post This Form . . . With Remittance
THE BRITISH BOOK OF THE MONTH CLUB,
G.P.O. Box 4657, Sydney. 1.
Please send a 6 months’ subscription at £2 10 0 I
12 months’ subscription at £5 0 0| tQ
Name
Address
65.000
know ike answer!
1
w
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
in most sises.
“WHAT Engines could best
* * satisfy the Australian
primary producer, serve on
all fronts in a Total War,
and win wide favour for
industrial uses? . .
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
of course!
65.000 satisfied owners of
Ronaldson-Tippett Petrol and
Diesel Engines would give
this emphatic answer !
Follow the wisdom of the
65.000 and invest your money
in a lifetime Ronaldson-
Tippett Engine !
RONALDSON BROS. &
TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Melb. Office: 628 Bourke Street.
N.S.W. Distributors; Ronaldson Bros.
& Tippett Ltd., 42 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
QTand Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett
(Q’land) Pty. Ltd. 127 Eagle
Street, BRISBANE.
f
tMUtf
Zn
names
for
o
LIFETI
;
FO
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS"
THE UNTOUCHABLE DEAN.
London “Times,” in leader
comment, has explained aspects
of the Dean of Canterbury case
which must have been puzzling
many.
What the “Times” comment
in effect amounts to is that the
Dean, whether adjudged foolish
or cunning, is “untouchable”
except by special Parliamentary
action, and that there has
been no such action be-
cause “freedom of speech”
apparently is held more sacred
than anything the Dean’s utter-
ances may be thought to violate.
“What must be said,” com-
ments the “Times,” “is that the
proofs which the Dean’s Chinese
hosts claim to have supplied,
assuming that the Dean’s account
of them is accurate, bear all the
marks of an unscrupulous propa-
ganda and do very little credit to
the ingenuity of their inventors.
“The Dean has been shown
some insects which Chinese
farmers are said to have found
and which unspecified scientists
have declared to have been
infected with germs. He has
examined the brains of two
children alleged by the Com-
munist authorities to have died
‘from an unusual disease for that
time of the year.’ On the
strength of this he makes an
accusation which, if it were
believed, would damn the United
Nations campaign in the eyes of
the world.
“Set beside his previous pro-
nouncements, the Dean’s latest
statement is evidence of nothing
but a sustained campaign to
injure the causes for which the
Western world stands and to
offer encouragement to its
enemies. This campaign gives
scandal in the Church of
England, and is liable to do real
harm where the Dean’s
credentials are less perfectly
understood than in this country
[Britain].”
The “Times” does not say
exactly to what it thinks “real
harm” might be done —whether
it has in mind the Church of
England or the general Western
cause, or both. And it would
seem to have in mind non-British
countries. But it would seem
that the conviction that the Dean
is a luxury neither the Church
nor the West can afford is
becoming widespread and
serious.
The “Times” admits there can
be little doubt that, if there were
any safe and lawful means of
dispensing with the Dean’s
services, his ecclesiastical
superiors would have long ago
adopted it. But, it points out,
there are in fact only three
measures under which it is
possible to envisage action in a
case of this sort, and none of
them exactly fits the present
circumstances:
“The Church Discipline Act
of 1840 makes it possible to
prosecute the Dean for heresy,
but this would involve proving
to the Judicial Committee of the
Privy Council that his political
opinions and false impressions
of fact are incompatible with
the faithful acceptance of the
thirty-nine articles, A prosecu-
tion of this kind, even if it could
be sustained, would obviously be
a dangerous precedent. The
Clergy Discipline Act of 1892
could not be invoked unless the
Dean had previously been con-
victed in the Civil Courts of
treason or felony, and the
Church Dignitary’s Retirement
Measure of 1949 contains a
clause, inserted largely to dis-
sipate lay fears of ecclesiastical
tyranny, forbidding compulsory
retirement on political grounds.”
Therefore the Church has no
weapon to bring to bear other
than censure, of which continual
use has been made, while the
State has at present no power to
oblige the Dean to substantiate
or withdraw his accusations:
“The whole structure of both
Church and State in England is
strongly biased towards freedom
of opinion, and whenever
freedom exists it will some-
times be abused. If the Dean’s
conduct should ever become
inconsistent with national
security it would be for the
Home Office, hot the Church, to
investigate the resources at its
disposal and if necessary to add
to them by statute.”
The Dean’s offence, in the
Times’s” summing-up, “is not
essentially different from that of
any other member of the dis-
credited minority of Communist
sympathisers with which he has
chosen to identify himself, but
it is rendered both more odious
and more harmful by the posi-
If “ “ wh'ch he is
unfortunately entrenched.
Despite Moussadek.
“U.S. News and World
Report” records that the Anglo-
Iranian oil concern has been do-
ing passably well for itself,
despite Moussadek’s confiscation
of Abadan,
The concern’s half-interest in
the Kuwait oil concession “is
turning into a bonanza. Kuwait
output is running double what
London “Daily Express.”
"BUT AT LEAST IT’S OUR OWN GLORIOUS, WONDERFUL, NATIONAL
PERSIAN OIL WE’RE DROWNING IN !”
it was a year ago and the steep
climb isn’t ended,
“Irak, too, is showing big
production gains - this year.
Anglo-Iranian has almost a
quarter of the valuable Irak
concession.”
Persia, for its part, is now
beginning to really feel the loss
of revenue: “Frantic efforts to
sell oil stocked up in Abadan
show that.”
One important obstacle to
Persia selling the Abadan oil is
that legal action by Anglo-
Iranian is likely on any such
contract, the company regard-
ing oil stocks left by it in Iran
as its own property. Hence,
“Most American and Western
European oil companies wouldn’t
touch Iranian oil with a 10ft.
pole. They don’t want to get
involved in an already difficult
situation.
“Repeated rumors of sales of
Iranian oil have all proved false.
Italy, Czechoslovakia, Poland,
Russia have all been named as
buyers. The wish seems to be
father to the thought in cash-
hungry Tehran.”
Canine Candor.
Some cable-columns ran the
following House of Commons
exchange with (oddly) the final
five words omitted;
Mrs. Castle (Blackburn East,
Lab.): “Mr, Churchill used to
be portrayed as the British bull-
dog sitting on the Union Jack ;
he has now become a lap-dog
sitting on the Stars and Stripes.”
Mr. lan Harvey (Harrow
East, C.): “Mrs. Castle has made
insulting references to Mr,
Churchill. We all know what
flag she is sitting on —and she is
no dog.”
Dragnet Digest.
He Does Like Ike. —As a ges-
ture (all free) American mil-
lionaire toy-manufacturer Louis
Marx has turned out 42,000,000
“I Like Ike” buttons, 2,000,000
“I Do Too” buttons, “Ike” ear-
rings, “Ike” cufflinks, “Ike” tie-
pins, “Ike” money-clips, “Ike”
bobby-pins, “I Like Ike” ele-
phants, “J’aime Ike” pins (pre-
sumably for voters of French
extraction) and “Viva Ike” but-
tons for people who will vote
for Viva Zapata.
Canada Doubts— Canadians,
reports “Manchester Guard-
ian’s” financial editor, “feel very
much out of step with the
financial and economic policies
pursued in Britain since the war.
f ® rL.rnm.nf believe
Canadian Government believe,
moreover, that the economic
policy of the present British
Government is not strong
enough to pull the country
through. This view is held so
universally in Ottawa now that
a serious gulf has arisen be-
tween the two countries.”
Motto. —“ New York Times”
correspondent: “ ‘Trade not
aid’ is rapidly becoming the
motto of other countries besides
Britain. It is a healthy, hopeful
development which Americans
have every motive for foster-
iug-
Germany, a Vital Change. —
“ It; does not seem to be generally
realised,” comments London
« Economist » - that the issue in
Germany is no longer between
rearmament or continuec } de-
militarisation, but between
German troops in a European
arm y anc j German troops in the
Bereitschaften created by the
R uss i ans> ” The alternatives, it
addSj changed when the Soviet
jq 0 t e offered Germans unity, free
e i ec ti o ns, a national army, and
a peace treaty which would
break all links with the Atlantic
community,
A Few Too Many People.—
London “Daily Telegraph”
letter-writer • “The day has
gone b w ' hsm Great Britain,
throu h the possess i on 0 f the
advantages she had in> say; 1830 i
Can su PP or t a population twice
“ , c ■, r .
as great as she can feed from her
own resources. The recurring
‘crises’ are merely a symptom of
the fundamental change which
is, baldly stated, that Britain’s
population is, from the economic
point of view, about 25 million
too large.”
War Odds. —“ Four to one
against war with Russia in the
next year and a half” (“high
British officials’ appraisal,”
quoted by “U.S. News and
World Report”). It recalls the
London “Daily Express” poster
* n 1939: No War This Year,
U.S. - Britain, Next Step
London “Observer,” for all-in
union: “We are now linked to
the Americans by almost every
tie except a political one.
The sooner we take the next
plunge the better. This would
not hand us over, bound
hand and foot, to the
Americans; on the contrary, it
would at last give us the right
and the chance to make our voice
heard effectively in matters
vitally affecting both countries.”


/ DING AUSTRAUAS No. 6 of a series.
Wj
age
&
rjp-
CZ
and the
n
Store Lighting
Display and Window Lighting
As a major outlet for the products of Australia’s huge
woollen industry and for thousands of other manufactured lines,
the retail store plays an all-important part in the nation’s progress.
At Farmer’s, Sydney—one of Australia’s largest Department Stores,
with over 12 acres of floor space and 180 different departments —
service to the buying public is maintained, despite zoned days and
blackouts, by lighting and power generated by two diesel engines
supplied and installed by BOEAUST (illustrated below ) —a 600
r.p.m. TL4 “Mirrlees” and a 1,000 r.p.m. M 5 “McLaren”, each
direct coupled to Brush alternators, total output 263KVA.
Part of the
Associated
British Oil
Engines Group
...now
producing the
largest number-
of industrial
diesel engin'es
in the world.
IVNOIiVN)
1^3831
*
Wi
.
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A’ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence St., Sydney • 368 Collins St., Melbourne • Distributors In ail States
SUNDRY SHOWS
Music.
As well as having a voice of
surpassing purity which, while
the quality is at its best in the
middle and lower registers, can
swell to noble proportions in the
high reaches, soprano Dorothy
Maynor is a natural interpreter
of song. Hers is a fascinating
art, for to the aid of her voice
she brings an obviously high
intelligence, and in each song
her face is a clear mirror of the
song’s emotional content. It is
perhaps in the more delicately
wrought songs that her art glows
at its brightest. This she
superbly demonstrated at her
first Sydney recital with
Grieg’s “The First Meeting,” and
the negro spiritual “Swing Low,
Sweet Chariot,” in which the
voice was throttled back to
almost a whisper, yet with each
word clearly audible. Schubert’s
“Shepherd on the Rock,” with
clarinet obbligato by Clive
Amadio, justly earned the singer
a splendid ovation —rare it is
indeed to hear this marvellous
example of the lied given by
a singer who is able to invest it
with the needed inner-spiritual
touch. Great severity marked
two devotional songs of Cesar
Franck.
In Brisbane Dorothy Maynor
presented a long programme of
a wide emotional range. Never
has Brahms’s “In Summer
Fields” been heard so exquisitely.
Her “O, No, John” was compar-
able to the recording by the late
Conchita Supervia, and her
bracket of Grieg songs, with their
simple, nostalgic melodies, should
lead to a revival of interest in the
lesser-known songs of this
composer.
* * * *
Schumann said of Chopin’s
waltzes that they should never
be danced by anyone of lower
rank than a countess ; on that
basis the perfect terpsichorean
tribute could be paid to Bartok's
two Rumanian dances, played
by the Sydney Orchestra under
Goossens, only by a hamstrung
octopus. But this was divine
music compared with the
excerpts from Berg’s opera
“Wozzeck,” the solo part of
which was indifferently sung by
soprano Elsa Haas. This atonal
horror, in which jangling dis-
cords and blaring banalities
represent the new sanity in
music, is perhaps fitting stuff for
the neurotic morbidness of the
story. The ideal place to produce
this opera would be Tophet,
Clive Douglas’s First Symphony
was mostly sound and fury,
signifying little; but the slow
movement had pages of good
writing for strings and wood-
wind. Yet one modern work was
excellent: Rawsthorne’s Piano
Concerto, played dynamically
by Badura-Skoda.
* * *
Stravinsky stole the show at
the latest of the Juan Jose Castro
concerts at the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne. His “Rite of Spring”
suited the Argentinian conductor
no end, and he positively revelled
in the din and row of the cele-
bration of the rites of spring in
pagan Russia. It was preceded
by an “Outdoor Overture” by
Aaron Copland which was in-
sulting rubbish. Something light
by Gretry, Cesar Franck’s
symphonic poem “Les Eolides,”
and Tschaikowsky’s Violin Con-
certo in D Major, with, as
soloist, Michael Rabin, com-
pleted the programme.
Stage.
“French Without Tears” is the
latest addition to the Mercury
Theatre’s repertoire at St. James
Hall, Sydney—a light, very lively
and nicely-timed performance of
Terence Rattigan’s comedy
about several young Englishmen
learning French and other things
in the south of France. On the
night this commentator attended
the audience almost howled with
glee, and even some of the cast
could scarce forbear to laugh.
Diana Davidson, June Wimble,
Frank Lisle, Keith Walshe,
Barrie Cookson and Ron Patten
were the ringleaders.
l|e # ♦ ♦
In “Medley,” their new show
at Sydney Empire, the Kiwis
give the public the best acts of
their lives —“Heavens,” as the
Souter cartoon said, “were
those the best?” Well, Mr.
Hunter’s girl-and-boy version of
the Balcony Scene in “Private
Lives” is still as good double-
value as Miss Kramer’s boy-and-
girl act in the “Folies,” and Mr.
Red Moore’s burlesque of the
Ray person singing “Ker-rye” is
almost too good to be good.
* * * *
John Alden brought Shak-
speare to Canberra for a fort-
night, opening with the now-
polished “Lear,” and following
with “The Merchant of Venice,”
superbly dressed, produced with
gusto and acted with confidence.
Max Oldaker is a handsome,
spirited and poised Bassanio, and
perhaps his very poise rather
casts doubt on the somewhat
Restoration interpretation of
Portia by Neva Carr-Glyn. But
Alden, as Shylock, of course,
dominates the play, and his
interpretation is, as always,
serious and intelligent. In
acting “Lear” he seems too mad
too soon, and in producing the
play he has not controlled the
Fool or the daughters sternly
enough—but such reservations
are a tribute to the level which
the company maintains.
The Alden Company’s final
production in Canberra was
“The Merry Wives of Windsor,”
and it showed just what an
accomplished troupe Alden has
gathered about him, William
Rees was an extraordinarily
self-possessed Falstaff, but Ron
Shand’s Slender, Alistair Roberts
as Sir Hugh, James Mills as Dr.
Caius, were all performances that
need fear no comparisons. The
women are perhaps a little
weaker, although Iris Hart as
Mistress Page was full of fun,
and Mavis Turner looks so sweet
and acts so brightly that criticism
is disarmed, Huia Munro
seemed to find Mistress Quickly
something of a strain. The play
also showed just how good an
actor Alden himself is, in a part
unglamorised by striking indivi-
duality and unhallowed by long
tradition. Technically, the pro-
duction is apparently faultless.
The basic set is used imagina-
tively and without affectation,
and perhaps with two more pages
to move the furniture the already
smooth changes could be made
even smoother. All in all, Alden
has brought Shakspeare to the
Australian public in productions
which, from every point of view,
live up to the best traditions of
the Shakspearian theatre.
F. M. T.
* * * *
John Tydde made good use of
coihedy relief to highlight the
dramatic situations which
abound in Besier’s “The Barretts
of Wimpole Street” —his first
production for the Hobart
Repertory Society. Authentic
costumes and decor and obvi-
ously strict attention to detail
were the outstanding features of
the production. John Moore
and Jane Hannay were admir-
ably consistent as the lusty,
megalomaniacal Edward Barrett
and his daughter, Elizabeth.
Strong physical resemblance
helped John Tydde in the role
of Robert Browning, but his
characterisation was sometimes
inconsistent and his acting a
little uncertain. There was some
weak casting in the very small
parts, but Fenton Dobson, as the
pompous Mr. Bevan, managed
to create a very real character
with the few lines at his disposal.
Art.
The hand doesn’t quite support
the eye in James Coleman’s
exhibition of oils at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney. One
feels all the time that, while the
eye has discerned the soft charm
of little landscapes, the execu-
tion rarely quite captures the
atmosphere. In “July Morning,”
“Afternoon Sketch” and “On the
Road to Jenolan Caves” the artist
seems to come closest to his
object.


; mmm
S;
T tf, r « ' ? r
iC gTF7~r^
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £72,000,000.
our Executor these qualifications?
The Executor and Trustee of your Will must have
certain qualifications if he is to administer your Estate
in the best interests of your dependents.
(1) He must have wide experience in the solution of
business, financial and other problems. (2) He must
be of absolute probity. (3) He must be accessible at
all reasonable times and (4) He must never grow too
old for sound judgment.
You cannot find all these qualifications in a private
person hut you CAN find them in Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
If you would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company, ring B 0377, or write, and make an
appointment A Senior Officer will gladly supply the
information you desire.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.. Chairman:
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN:
JOHN W. .DUNLOP;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGB. Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)*
, Dividends ~ To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ p.c. £ £ £
1948.. 38,477 8&6 10 p.c. = 34,641 3,836 260,538
Profit sale assets, £672 261,210
Unexplained additions, £23,060 .. 284,270
1949.. 66,523 8&5 10 p.c. = 36,517 30,006 314,276
Replacement res. disclosed, £243,797.. 558,073
Stock res. disclosed, £120,017 .. 678,090
Profit sale assets, £3183 .. .. 681,273
Unexplained reduction, £6773 net . . 674,500
1950.. 85,948 8& 5 12£p.c.= 48,711 37,237 711.737
Revaluation assets, £190,116 .. 901,853
Reserves capitalised, £194,994 . . 706,859
Share premiums, £139 net ~ .. 706,998
Profit sale assets, £2285 .. .. 709,283
Unexplained additions, £42,599 .. 751,882
1951.. 259.8 & 5 10 p.c. = 57,243 65,016 816,898
Share premiums, £80,935 . . .. 897,833
Profit sale assets, £10,591 .. .. 908,424
Add sundry adjustments, £27,894 .. 936,318
To outside interests, £10,982 .. 925,336
Loss.
1952.. 65,062 8 &5 5 p.c. = 46,762 813,512
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
f Subject to; intangibles, now £11,201.
Last term’s overall net trading loss of
£65,062 —first thing of its kind since the
parent overcame its teething troubles in
the early 1920’s —and the cut in the div.
from 10 p.c. to 5 p.c. do not typify the
outlook for shareholders in this big
hosiery and textile group, which now
consists of parent and four subsidiaries.
The 30-year-old parent is one of Aus-
tralia’s leading producers of high-grade
women’s hosiery and lingerie, turned out
from a well-equipped factory at Bruns-
wick (Vic.) and decentralised units in
four country towns. The subsidiaries
are Prestige (N.Z.), Ltd., leading hosiery
producer in New Zealand ; Prestige Fab-
rics, Ltd., at Ararat (Vic,), which spins
worsted yarns and weaves fine woollen
and rayon fabrics; Dyecraft, Ltd., which
operates textile-finishing, printing and
dyeing plants at Brunswick and Sunshine
(Vic.); and Johnson Bros. Pty., silk-
throwing and -creper specialists at
Brunswick and Bacchus Marsh (Vic,).
Dapco Pty., at St. Mary’s (N.S.W.), whose
business was recently taken over by Dye-
craft, was in the roller- and screen-print-
ing section of the trade.
The trouble occurred in the Fabric and
Dapco cos., which recorded losses of
£161,266 and £23,424, respectively. In
the previous term the infant Fabric co.
(paid capital £500,000, including £lOO,OOO
of 5 p.c. prefs.), whose activities and earn-
ings depend largely upon Government
tariff policy, netted £22,106 and paid a
maiden p.c. to the ords. During the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
conditions changed rapidly from a period
of strong demand to slack times, keen
competition, falling prices and rising
costs. The board puts it this way;
When the Government’s credit-restriction
policy became effective the wholesale and
retail trades found themselves so over-
committed on imports generally, and so
grossly overstocked with and committed on
further clothing and piecegoods imports,
that, in order to meet these commitments
and in the interests of liquidity, they have
been forced to reduce their purchases both
from clothing manufacturers and local
fabric mills to the barest minimum.
The Fabric co.’s turnover, well-main-
tained during the first half of the term, fell
away by 56 p.c. for the second half, and
some lines had to be sold at cut prices
and stocks had to be written down to
bring them into line with market-values.
The net result of it all was the loss stated
above, dismissal of half the co.’s staff
(160 hands) and cut in the parent’s div.
Not until retailers’ stocks of imported
fabrics, etc., have been digested by the
public is the Fabric co. expected to regain
“an economical level of production.”
Despite the change in conditions, the
parent and its other subsidiaries, chiefly
the New Zealand offshoot, earned satis-
factory profits. Including dividends from
subsidiaries (£39,005, up £18,125), etc.,
the parent netted £104,549 (up £30,174).
That was enough to pay the pref. divs.
(£18,244) and show 12.2 p.c. on issued
ord. capital at March 31 last —there was
£15,176 of calls unpaid. In Feb., 1951,
£194,994 of bonus-scrip was handed out,
four-for-five, and, to help finance all-
round expansion, 517,178 new 10s. ords.
were issued at a premium of ss. each.
That lifted issued capital to £1,005,028
in 103,050 8 p.c. and 200,000 5 p.c. prefs.,
all of £1 each, and 2,807,912 ss. ords.
Over the last 27 years the parent has
never failed to pay a div., the average
being approximately 11 p.c.
The rapid expansion of the group, and
its financial set-up, are shown in the
following table: —•
Prestige and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £534,388 £546,792 £827,982 £989,852
Outside
interests . . 213,970 214,652 214,778 215,187
Loan . . 400,000 485,000 560,000
Overdraft . . 293,982 163,362 675,770 849,284
Creditors 1 9 - 4 sr.fi 1 266,691 417,040 205,787
Taxation ) A’ \ .<90,052 88,759 108,567
Final divs. .. 28,317 38,987 47.778 29,969
Freeholds .. 313,907 425,155 668,618 698,966
Plant .. 432,075 698,671 981,562 1,053,213
Shares .. 34,480 36,980 40,696 25,980
Stocks . . 693,325 1,009,456 1,585,385 1,757,545
Debtors .. 114.303 122,241 245,053 201,428
Cash, etc. . . 33,989 121,276 35,271 23,825
Intangibles,
etc.* . . 17,420 18,494 17,420 11,201
* Includes excess cost over par value of shares held.
To meet the year’s net additions of
£172,160 to stocks (which appear at lower
of cost or market-value) and £71,651 to
plant, as well as reduce the amount
coming to sundry creditors by £211,253,
shareholders put up £161,870 of fresh
capital, £173,514 was added to the over-
draft and £75,000 to the loan from
National Mutual Life. When the books
closed there was 17s. Bd. of outside money
(loan, overdraft and creditors) in the
business for every pound belonging to
shareholders. Since then the physical
volume of the inventory has been worked
down and the overdraft reduced, thus
eliminating much of the risk inherent in
an overstocked and falling market.
Assuming that the worst is over in the
Fabric co., shareholders’ prospects depend
mainly upon conditions in the hosiery
and lingerie trades. Although sales have
held well to date, and import restrictions
look like being more of a help than a
hindrance, a new and ugly threat has
arisen. It is the continued steep rise in
costs, due to recurrent wage-lifts at a
moment when both consumption and
production are beginning to decline.
Unless arrested in time it will spell reduc-
tions in net earnings, employment and the
standard of living.
Mindful of the co.’s history, the market
backs the management and prices
the f.-p. ss. ords. at ss. 9d. (13s.
6d. a year ago), giving an immediate
return of 4.3 p.c, on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The 5 p.c. prefs. at 17s. return 5.9 p.c.
and the 8 percents, at 295. yield 5.5 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £5 19s. 9d. prefs.—
both classes rank equally for capital —and
10s. 9d. ords.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
r- -Dividends —To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
1947.. 54.407 6 p.c. 12J p.c. 38,750 15,657 287,842
1948. .43,336 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 10,836 298,678
1949. .44,368 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 11,868 310,546
Deferred lease premiums, £25,123.. 335,669
1950. .49,145 6 p.c. 124 p.c. 38,750 10,395 346,064
Revaluation hotel properties, £588,173 934,237
Capitalisation of reserves, £250,000.. 684,237
Surplus sale plant, £986 !. .. 685,223
Deferred lease premiums, £2143 . . 687,366
Income tax previous years, £3608 .. 683,758
Pref. Pref. Ord.
6 p.c. 5 p.c. 10 p.c.
1951.. 55.054 7,500 1,562 37,500 8,492 692,250
Surplus sale plant, £2157 .. .. 694,407
Deferred lease premium, £5725 .. 700,132
Profit sale hotel, £48,212 .. .. 748,344
74 p.c.
1952.. 50,007 7,500 6,250 37,500 747,100
More capital and more plant were at
work, the output of beer increased, and
consumption reached record figures, too.
But the bigger trading was less profit-
able, because costs pressed more heavily
upon takings owing to the time-lag in
lifts in the controlled selling-price of beer
—that is apart from excise, now 7s. 2d.
a gallon, which goes to the Treasury, not
the brewer. The Government now makes
off with no less than 16s. of every pound
the brewer gets for bulk beer ; the other
4s. has to cover spiralling wage and other
costs, including income-tax, as well as
dividends for shareholders.
The brewery, at Ballarat (Vic.), feeds
some 90 of the co.’s own hotels scattered
throughout Western Victoria and oyer
the border in the N. S. Wales Riverina
and at Mt. Gambier (S. Aust.). Since the
war the business has expanded consider-
ably, the plant is modern and efficient
and the management is alive to its
problems. To help finance exten-
sions and improvements 125,000 new
£1 5 p.c. prefs. were issued at
par in February, 1951. At the same
time ord, capital was doubled by the
issue of £250,000 of bonus-scrip,, pro-
vided out of a capital assets reserve
created by writing up the book-value of
hotel properties by that amount. Paid
capital thus became £750,000 in 125,000
A 6 p.c. and a like number of B 5 p.c.
prefs. and 500,000 ords.
Last term the improvement in gross
profit from all sources was £56,351:
Gross profit— 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Brewing . . £150,758 £177,644 £200,496 £257,385
Rent. et 6... 46,537 52,760 59,468 58,930
Total . . £197,295 £230,404 £259,964 £316,315
Exes. .. 152,927 181,259 204.910 266,308
Net profit .. £44,368 £49,145 £55,054 £50,007
Including allowances for depreciation
(£23,113, down £5505) and taxation
(£67,754, up £13,561), exes, gobbled all
the gain and £5047 besides. The £50,007
of profit was enough to pay the pref.
divs. and show 1\ p.c. on average ord.
capital. The div, was lowered from
10 p.c. to 1\ p.c., which called for
£1243 more profit than was claimed from
ordinary trade activity. However, the
1\ p.c. was worth 15 p.c. on ord. capital
as it stood before the gift already referred
to. All that leaves out of the reckoning a
profit of £2157 on sale of plant and £5725
deferred income from lease premiums.
And there was an unexplained addition
of £48,212 to the hotel-revaluation reserve
(now £386,385) following sale of a hotel
at Braybrook at a figure “satisfactory to
the co.” —appearances are, therefore, that
the writing-up of hotel properties was aot
overdone.
The net reduction in the book-value of
brewery and hotel properties was £23,490:
1949. 1950. 1951, 1952.
Paid capital .. 375,000 375,000 750,000 750,000
Mortgages .. 50,000 50,000 50,000 52,300
Overdraft . . 10,378 37,878 4,943 48,175
Sundry
creditors .. 20,456 25,272 26,971 38,556
Prepayments,
etc. .. 25,931* 30,727* 40,217* 29,375*
Tax reserve .. 42,000 46,000 53,500 62,000
Brewery, hotels,
etc 586,081 587,728 1,194,144 1,170,654
Plant, etc. .. 57,152 64,912 79,855 105,132
Stock . . . . 38,873 46,645 62,506 82,181
Sundry debtors 154,994 196,226 257,085 368,055
Shares other cos. 347 347 347 347
Gash, etc. 17,262 15,084 23,944 1,137
* Includes provision for final div.
The sale, as well as bigger trading, again
shows up in the growth of £110,970 in
book-debts. The growth in the plant item
(up £25,277) was due to installation of
new equipment—it came into production
toward the close of accounts —which will
double the co.’s output of bottled beer.
Although the history of the trade shows
that it is not unduly sensitive to changes
in the economic climate, the growing
weight of the costs factor makes any
early and substantial improvement in net
earnings doubtful. The market, which
believes that the board has conservatively
stated the co.’s profits, prices the ords. at
38s. (525. a year ago), giving a return of
3.9 p.c. on a 7 % p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 5.2 p.c. on his
money counts on the div. reaching 10 p.c.
again. The pref. shares are priced to
yield approximately 5 p.c. Net tangible
cover is t £ll 19s. 7d. A’s, £lO 19s. 7d. B’s
and 495. lid. ords.
Pierwood Plastics, Ltd. (Sydney)
(and Subsidiaries)
Pref. To He- Ee-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves,}
£ £ £ £
Share .premium, £20,000 .. .. 20,0<j0
1950*. .50,377 —12 J 15,625 34.725 54,40:
Capital profit, £1741 .. .. .. 56,1; ;
Written off goodwill, £3311 .. .. 52,83:
Dec.,
1950 f. .36,841 1250 6i p.c.= 12,562 23,029 75,865
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 85,866
Intangibles written off, £6653 .. .. 79,21:-
Taxes previous years, £7 7 9 .. .. 78,431
1951 ..55,590 5000 10 p.c.= 28,190 22,400 100,83;
*l2 months, t Six months. $ Subject to intangibles,
£53,167 at 31/12/’5l.
Development of this newcomer into
Australia’s infant plastic - manufactur-
ing industry has been rapid and profit-
able, thanks, among other things, to the
post-war boom and a sheltered market,
and to enterprising management, which
has made the most of its opportunities.
The co. kicked off in June, 1948, when it
took over the then three-year-old plastic-
moulding business established by H. T.
Piercy and J. Ashwood. The public came
in a year later, when 40,000 £1 shares
were issued at a premium of 10s. each,
lifting paid capital to £115,000. The
figure had grown to £476,300 in 100,000
£1 5 p.c. prefs. (taken by City Mutual
Life) and 1,505,200 ords. of ss. each at
Dec. 31, 1951 —72,000 of the ords. do not
rank for divs. until mid-1953.
Last term 701,200 ords. were issued—
-80,400 as f.-p. bonus-shares (apparently
from inner reserves), 328,800 were taken
by shareholders for cash at par, and
292,000 were put out at premiums total-
ling £lO,OOO to acquire minority holdings
in distributing subsidiaries, to take up
interests in associated overseas cos., and
to acquire the Australian rights to pre-
cision casting of a stainless-steel product
known as “stancasting” from the Standard
Tool Co., U.S.A. The co.’s toolmaking
subsidiary, Standard Tool Co. (Aust.) Pty.,
will handle the new steel product; chief
distributing offshoot is Piercy and Ash-
wood (Distributors) Pty. ; overseas
associate interests also include Louis
Marks and Co., U.S.A., whose plastic pro-
ducts are sold by Pierwood on the Aus-
tralian market, and Plastic Moulders
(N.Z.), Ltd. All subsidiary and sub-
subsidiary cos. operated “successfully and
profitably” last term.
The parent’s own factory, at
Chatswood, near Sydney, turns out a
variety of thermoplastics, ranging from
toys, combs and utility lines to industrial
requirements, such as radio cabinets,
gramophone records, refrigerator trays,
instrument panels and custom mouldings.
Last term the demand for toys, etc,,
eased following the heavy increase in
sales tax and tightening of credit, but
increased output and sales of industrial
lines quickened the tempo of turnover,
which increased considerably. So, despite
the buoyancy of costs and the writing-
down of stocks by an unstated amount,
owing to the fall in price of imported
raw materials, the board was able to
show a satisfactory profit of £55,590.
For the previous half-year net earnings
were at the rate of £73,682 p.a. The
£55,590 was enough to meet pref. require-
ments and show 17.9 p.c. on average ord.
capital, or 13.4 p.c. on ord. capital as it
stood at the close of accounts. The div.,
which was at the rate of 12j p.c..p.a. for
the preceding 18 months, was dropped to
10 p.c. The £22,400 that remained raised
reserves to £100,834, subject to £53,157
of goodwill.
Next table shows how the growing
business has been financed:
June, Dec., Dec..
1950. 1950. 1951,
Paid capital .. ~ £251,000 £301,000 £476,306
Outside interests .. 14,56 1 27,137 12,034
Mortgage . . .. 37,500 37,500 35,000
Overdraft . . .. 69,855 62,286 282,519
Creditors, etc.*.. .. 97,473 104,115 107,494
Final divs 9,875 12,563 17,915
Freehold . . .. 63,859 63,762 99,413
Plant, etc 164,9 1 8 1 61,6 2 2 178,643
Shares other cos. .. 1,250 1,250 51,250
Stocks 215,795 292,576 469,907
Debtors, etc 48,6 7 3 7 8,23 8 177,928
Cash 2,179 1,135 1,791
Intangibles . . . . 18,997 21,883 53,157
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet the year’s net additions of
£52,678 to fixed assets, £50,000 to


NOW IS THE TIME TO
Solve
□ L
UL
nt
QGI4a
Overseas Business
Problems FAST/
-Fly QANTAS
to any of
COUNTRIES
Where there is business to be done, Qantas
will fly you to your destination in a few time-
saving hours or days. Personal business contacts
save weeks, even months of correspondence . . .
get problems solved “on the spot” . . . speed up
business activity.
And Qantas service is super service, wherever you
fly on over 40,000 miles of QANTAS routes.
Bookings to any port en route. Stop-over
wherever you wish at no extra air fare.
EUROPE via Djakarta, Singapore, Calcutta (or
Colombo and Bombay), Karachi, Beirut, Rome (or
Zurich) to London (or from Rome, via Geneva and
Paris to London). • HONG KONG via Labuan • TOKYO
via Manila. • NEW GUINEA via North Queensland to
60 points in New Guinea. • NEW BRITAIN and
SOLOMONS. • PACIFIC ISLANDS. Norfolk Island,
Noumea, Suva, Vila, Espiritu Santo.
Consult your Travel Agent,
dsf
AH W
there's a world of difference
Qontos Empire Airways Ltd. (inc. in Q’ld.)
in association with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL
INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
LAND TAX ASSESSMENT ACT 1910-1952
LODGEMENT OF LAND TAX RETURNS
Federal Land Tax returns in respect of land or
interests in land owned as at midnight on 30th June,
1952, should be lodged with the Federal Deputy
Commissioner of Taxation, 21/23 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, not later than 31st August, 1952,
The following persons are required to furnish
returns:—
(1) RESIDENTS who, on 30th June, 1952, owned
land or interests in land of a total unimproved
value of £'6,000 or over;
(2) ABSENTEES (or their agents) who. on 30th
June, 1952, owned land or interests in land of
an unimproved value of £1 or over;
(3) COMPANIES which, on 30th June, 1952, owned
land or interests in land of an unimproved value
of £6,000 or over. All such companies must
also forward returns setting forth the names
and addresses of the shareholders in the com-
pany as at 30th June, 1952, the number of
shares held by each shareholder and the amount
of capital paid up on each share at that date.
Where a return of land or interests in land owned
as at 30th June, 195!, has not been lodged, Form "A"
should be used showing complete details of all land
owned as at 30th June, 1952. Where a return has been
lodged showing land or interests in land owned at
30th June, 1951, but landholdings have altered in any
way since that date, Form "C" should be used. Where
no change in holdings has taken place since 30th June,
1951, a declaration (Form "CA") to that effect is
sufficient.
In every case where land is held in more than one
State the return should be lodged with the Federal
Deputy Commissioner of Taxation, London Stores
Building, Bourks and Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne.
Forms may be obtained from the principal Post
Offices or from the Federal Taxation Office, 21/23
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
PENALTY
Failure to lodge return: £lOO.
W. A. PERT,
Federal Deputy Commissioner of Taxation.
LT5.72.62
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address;
Oorrientes, Brisbana.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
ihilMuf
*«*
as you like
amid the
colour and
splendour of
fascinating
CBYLON
Ceylon is famous for
rare tropical scenery.
-r
Colourful Kandyan
Dancers, part of the
thrilling Kandy Pera-
her a in August.
Nature has been truly lavish with
her gifts to this magic island gem.
The moment you step ashore, the
subtle charm of Ceylon will infect
you with the desire to stay. In
Ceylon the tourist is provided with
every modern amenity for rest and
play. Famous tropical hotels pro-
vide accommodation and cuisine
that is unrivalled anywhere, and
Resthouses (Tourist Inns) offer
old-world charm. Sporting facilities
include trout fishing in Waltonian
streams, deep sea game fishing,
golf, shark-free surfing, and the
famous Colombo Racecourse.
Further information, free maps and
literature can be obtained by writing
to the CEYLON GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, or Travel
Agents, Shipping and Airline
Companies in Australia.
Tours can be booked direct on all Registered Travel Agents through
the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau free of commission.
0T.5A.16
TILLEY
Regd
Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
For quality—for economy—for safely you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246 ! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Po wer.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
MODEL X 246
(“THE GUARDSMAN”)
shareholdings, £177,331 to stocks
(they appear at lower of cost or
market-value) and £99,690 to
book-debts, the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £220,233
besides adding £175,300 to share
capital. The more-or-less liquid
surplus was £51,213 stronger at
£206,698.
Doubtful of how all the cross-
currents now at work in the
economy will affect the business,
the market prices the f.-p. ss.
ords. at 6s. 9d. (9s. 9d. early in
1952), giving a return of 7.4 p.c.
so long as the 10 p.c. div. con-
tinues, or 5.2 p.c. should the rate
drop to 7 p.c. Net tangible cover
is ss. 7d. per share. The prefs.
are not listed on ’Change.
The most interesting develop-
ment at the Peko mine, Ten-
nant Creek, is the diamond-
drill disclosure of ore at a depth
of 400 ft., core assay 25.1dwt.
gold and 11.1 p.c. copper, which
might, or might not, mean all
that it looks. The rich
oxidised copper and gold
ore-bodies on the 200 ft. level,
now practically sloped out, are
believed to be the top of a dome,
in which the two bodies merge
and change into sulphides —they
are more expensive to mine and
treat than oxides —about the
300 ft. level. Here 75ft. of
driving has exposed ore averag-
ing 24 p.c. copper for 63ft. and
29.2dwt. gold for 53ft. No
stoping has yet been carried out
on this level, and a lot more
development-work needs to be
done before any reliable esti-
mate can be made of the prob-
able quantity of ore available,
and of its overall average value.
H= * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
(Aust.), Ltd., third-largest pro-
ducer on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.), which transferred
its headquarters from London to
Melbourne in Oct., 1951, treated
170,111 tons (up 6996 tons) ore
for 46,7920 z. (up 41220 z.) fine
gold, average 5.5dwt., for the
year to March 31 last. Capital
expenditure (amount unstated)
took most of the £173,533 (down
£18,079) of operating profit. A
div. of 6d. a share was paid in
April; last previous pay-
ment was 9d. (stg.) per share
in Oct., 1951. Paid capital
is £768,437 in 10s. shares,
of which about 30 p.c. is
held by Western Mining Corp.
The market prices the scrip at
12s. Bd. as against 18s. 4d. nine
months ago. The co. has a
23 p.c. interest in Kalgoorlie
Southern Gold, which is testing
the possible southern extension
at depth of the main Kalgoorlie
ore structures.
% * * *
Linden (W.A.) Gold, NX., has
exercised its option over the old
Queen of the May at Yunda-
mindera on the Mt. Margaret
field (W.A.). Purchase price was
£4OOO cash and 10,000 f.-p. 10s.
shares to the vendors. There is
£73,136 of capital to feed in
190.000 10s. shares, of which
30.000 are f.-p. and the balance
called to 7s. each. At Oct. 31,
1951, plant, etc., stood at £1928,
stocks £BO, and there was £7907
in the bank. There was only
£758 coming to outsiders.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The usual bright “family” atmosphere
of the Eastern Command Ball was present
again when the function was held at
the Troc. last Thursday. The Eastern
Command band played in the foyer at the
beginning of the ball, and large flags
draped the bandstand. Lieut.-General
Berryman and Mrs. Berryman received
the eight debutantes: Margaret Glenny,
Maud McKeon, Dawn Wales, Jean
Peters, Norma Groll, Wilma Penhaligon,
Esma Provan and Patricia Phillips. The
little flower-girl Mary Ann Willington is
the daughter of the president of the ball,
Major A. T. Willington, who with Mrs.
Willington received the guests. Mrs.
Berryman, to whom a basket of early-
spring flowers was presented, wore a
beautifully-draped dress of pearl jersey
embroidered with clusters of beaded
flowers. The debs were escorted by
officers and n.-c-o.s in dress uniform.
Matron-of-honor was Sister H. N.
Hodgins.
There were 1300 dancers at the Law
Ball, which is a very good muster right
in the middle of the ’flu season. Students
held a Court of Witty Sessions in the
foyer of the Troc. (where the dance was
held), arrested people as they came in and
fined them for such things as being sober
and orderly—the fine was always a couple
of raffle-tickets for a bottle of French
champagne. A small group of comic
convicts, policemen and lawyers led the
singing at midnight of the law song,
which, sung to the tune of “Men of
Harlech,” owes quite a lot, if one may
say so, to “Grads and Undergrads.” Mr.
Justice Roper, president of the Law
Society, was official welcomer. The
Governor was present with his daughter
Elizabeth, who looked charming in
bouffant white organdie patterned with
black squares, Mr. Justice Street was
also present. Mrs. Roper wore grey
brocade. Professor and Mrs. Roberts
came along, Professor and Mrs. Shatwell,
Mr. Justice Kihsella and Mrs. Kinsella,
Mr. Justice De Baun and Mrs. De Baun,
Mr. Justice Sugerman and Mrs. Suger-
man, Mr. Justice McLelland and Mrs.
McLelland, also Mr. Justice McClemens.
Among the members of the Law Society
were Tony McDonald, Judith Clayton,
Alan Mitchell and W. D. Deane, who was
accompanied by Anne Schneider in white.
It is almost 30 years since “Richard
II,” one of Shakspeare’s loveliest plays,
was presented in Sydney, so the produc-
tion by the Metropolitan which starts on
August 7 is something to look forward
to. The Met. has had some of its best
successes with Shakspeare their
“Hamlet” last year and “Twelfth Night”
earlier this year will be remembered. The
producer of “Richard II” is John Apple-
ton, and the cast includes two experi-
enced English players: Leon Peers as
Richard and Moira Redmond as the
Queen.
There was quite a bit of nostalgic
reminiscing about Blanche Browne and
the old Theatre Royal when the Mosman
Musical Society put on “Our Miss Gibbs”
last Friday. The music certainly stands
up well to the years, even if the remi-
niscers have changed a little. “Yip-I-
Addy,” “It’s a Nice Little Farm,” “Mary”
and “I’m Such a Silly When the Moon
Comes Out” are perennial topliners.
Although Len Getting’s production was
lively as ever, the familiar stars of the
company Betty Parsons, Gaynor
Mitchell, Ronald Neill, Geoffrey Chard,
Rhondda Baker—were sadly missed.
Little Billie Shaw, who plays the part
of Mary, has had quite a bit of experi-
ence in the chorus and plays and sings
with ingenuous charm, but her stage
presence is a little spasmodic and her
gestures too much like those of a ventrilo-
quist’s doll. The chorus worked hard
and enjoyed themselves, but some tried
too hard and sang louder than the rest,
which is not the right thing at all. The
dancers were more vigorous and energetic
than graceful; withal it’s a gay and happy
show, worth a visit. It will be on until
next Saturday.
What a pity it is that we don’t hear
more of the Melbourne singers, either
over the air or on the concert-platform.
It seems, too, that Melbourne has little
opportunity to hear and judge the
vocalists that Sydney produces. Those
who heard Elsa Haas sing in the recent
presentation of “Wozzek” at the Town
Hall were struck not only by the beauty
of her singing but also by regret that one
hears her voice and that of other Mel-
bourne singers so seldom. Among the
crowd of people congratulating Elsa after
the performance one noticed Dr. lan
Hogbin, Nancy Keesing, Lindsay Parker
and the Richard Aspinalls.
Dorothy Maynor received an ovation
at her first concert in Sydney on Saturday
when she sang, to conclude the pro-
gramme, negro spirituals as they have not
been heard here before. The religious
fervor she puts into the interpretation of
these spirituals seems to be present in all
her singing. Before each song she shuts
her eyes, clasps her hands and seems to
be uttering a silent prayer before nodding
her head gravely to the accompanist to
begin. After the song she seems to
awaken as from a trance. At her first
concert she wore a peach satin dress
covered with a black lace overdress with
a train and some beautiful brilliant
bracelets and brooch.
This is Helen Molesworth, who returned
to Sydney on the Strathaird from Eng-
land, where she was studying with the
London Royal College of Nurses under
the Florence Nightingale Memorial
Scholarship. Helen has been appointed
Tutor Sister at the Royal North Shore
Hospital. While she was abroad one of
her most interesting experiences was to
appear in a film about nursing with the
Countess of Mountbatten. Photo by
Hugh Spencer.
Not being an economist, this Letter
was a little staggered to read that the
Sydney County Council would not have
to put up its rates after the last basic-
wage rise because it had already done so
in anticipation of the rise—in fact, it is
two shillings to the good. Does this
mean that the wage goes up because
people think it will go up, put up their
prices to cover it and therefore it has to
go up because their prices are higher?
Oh, dear, it’s all too difficult for this
poor woman’s brain!
The Younger Set of the Naughty
Nineties Ball is working hard for the
Pimm’s Cocktail Party, which is to be
held at the A.G.I. Ballroom on August 8.
Norma Thorn is in charge of the decora-
tions, which are to be very South-of-the-
Border (Down Mexico Way, not down
Yarra way). Ann Livingston is president
and is aided in her good work by Diana
Field, Dinah Cullen, Judy and Pat Davies,
Maris Maddox, Pat Blackstone and other
young shining stars of this city. The
dancing at this function will go from
6.30 to 11 p.m. Tickets are one guinea.
Loan exhibits at the exhibition of the
Society of Arts and Crafts which is being
held at the Education Department’s Art
Gallery until August 8 include Italian
wall hangings, Florentine embroidery
(from Mrs, and Miss Mancantelli),
modern furnishings, wooden tableware,
lampshades and standards and educational
toys. The exhibition will be open from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and until 9 p.m. on
Fridays. It will be closed on Saturdays'
and on Monday, August 4.
The Victoria League in N.S.W. has
received news that her Majesty the Queen
has graciously consented to become
patron of the league throughout the
empire.
Elizabeth Northcott has been appointed
Principal Commandant of V.A.D. in New
South Wales. Her uniform will be that
of the V.A.D. with a gold laurel-leaf on
each shoulder-strap and a gold badge with
V.A.D. buttons. The Commandant-in-
Chief in Australia of the V.A.D. is always
the wife of the Governor-General.
Next Sunday at 7,15 p.m. the Guides’
Own Service will be held in the Sydney
Town Hall, when an address will be given
by Miss C. A. Fall. Present at the service
will be the Governor and Miss Elizabeth
Northcott.
The Governor will also be present at
the special Red Cross Service which will
be held at 3 p.m. on August 17 at St.
Andrew’s Cathedral. The church-parade
of V.A. Detachments and Junior Red
Cross will be inspected by his Excellency.
The preacher will be Major-General the
Rev. C. A. Osborne. Also on this Sunday
there will be a church-parade of V.A.s
at 11 o’clock Mass at St. Mary’s
Cathedral.
From Melbourne
Lady Herring, deputy-president of the
Victoria League in Victoria, presided at
the league’s annual meeting held in the
reception-room of the Town Hall. The
Governor and Lady Brooks were wel-
comed by the senior vice-president, Mrs.
H. F. Maudsley, and vice-president Mrs.
lan Connell. Lady Brooks wore a deep-
wine ensemble with a matching hat. Lady
Herring’s grey tailored suit had navy
accessories. Mrs. Maudsley wore a black
outfit and Mrs. lan Connell a black suit
with a forest-green velour cloche. Mrs.
R. A. Staughton’s full-length coat was of
black Persian-lamb. Mrs. Charles Burge
wore a grey, feather-trimmed hat with her
mink coat. Mrs. George Jones was in
black frock, short mink jacket and cap
of black velvet. Lady Collins had a smart
little grey beret to match her suit.
To celebrate the 661st anniversary of
the Swiss confederation the Swiss Club
of Victoria held a ball in St. Kilda Town
Hall, at which more than 700 were
present. Balloons in Switzerland’s
national colors, red and white, were the
main feature of the decorations. In front
of the bandstand were the shields of the
22 cantons of Switzerland., The Consul
for Switzerland, M. Paul-Emile Cattin,
and Madame Cattin received the official
guests with the president of the Swiss
Club, M. Emile Buff, and his wife.
Madame Cattin’s full-skirted gown was
of pale-green-and-gold brocade. In the
official party were the Lord Mayor, Cr.
O. J. Nilsen, and the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
John Inkster, who wore a jade-green-and-
grey brocade gown with a full-length jade-
green velvet coat.
Of interest in University circles is the
engagement of Ruth Ockenden and
Desmond Bright. Ruth, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. F. E. J. Ockenden, of North
Balwyn, is wearing a solitaire diamond.
Her fiance is the son of the headmaster
of Trinity Grammar School, Kew (Mr.
Alfred Bright), and Mrs. Bright. Engage-
ment was celebrated with a family dinner-
party at the Hotel Windsor,
This photo of Mary La Roche, who is
to star as Nellie Forbush in “South
Pacific,” was taken on the stage of the
Majestic Theatre, New York, while she
was being directed in the role by Oscar
Hammerstein’s producer, Charles Atkin,
who will also produce the musical-comedy
here. Mary also had the lead in the
Rodgers-Hammerstein musical “Allegro.”
Pretty, fair-haired Jeanette, only child
of Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Smith, of South
Yarra, sewed more than 800 pearls on the
beautiful gown of white Swiss organdie
she made for her wedding, which took
place at Melbourne Grammar School
Chapel. The gown, which contained 28
yards of material, had a deep V-neckline
softened with a berthe collar. Panniers,
draping gracefully over the very bouffant
skirt, extended into a long train, and
pearl-centred organdie flowers were scat-
tered over the gown. From a coronet of
opalescent orange-blossom fell the very
long, full tulle veil, and she carried a
bouquet of white orchids. The bride-
groom’s sister Anne and Pam and Sue
Prentice were the ’maids; they wore
gowns of white figured taffeta, with pink
tulle falling from one shoulder to form a
half-skirt in front. Coronets of pink Cecil
Brunner roses matched their bouquets.
The bridegroom, John Allen, who is the
only son of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Roark,
of Armadale, had Bruce Selleck as
best man and Andrew Londen and John
Blanshard for groomsmen.
At the reception, held at 14 Queen’s-
road, Mrs. Smith received her guests in a
deep-lime-green velvet coat, matching
flower-patterned taffeta frock and small
cloche of winter-white melusine. Mrs.
Roark wore a junior-blue draped crepe
skirt, a blouse of matching Chantilly lace,
a mink stole and a tiny hat in junior-blue
tonings. Among the guests were Mrs.
W. K. Burnside, in beech-brown frock
and osprey-laden brown velvet hat; Mrs.
Douglas Bowden, her ice-blue crepes
topped by a velvet pill-box beret; Pam
and Nan Dixon, both smart in black
frocks and tiny white hats; Josie
McNicol, who contrasted her navy faille
frock with a white satin shell cap which
featured ear-muffs clustered with pearls;
Liz Lane, whose ballerina frock was of
emerald-green satin; Cath McAlpin, her
choice ice-blue quilted satin with a cloche
Most of the outstanding gowns seen
at the dinner-dance held at the Hotel
Manyung were in shades of grey. Mrs.
Cliff Sedon Thompson’s was of grey
muslin, hail-spotted in white; Mrs,
Harold Brockhoff’s of grey patterned
organza ; Mrs. Jo Wilkinson’s of grey net,
brief of skirt and with a strapless bodice
shimmering with sequins; Mrs. John
Williams’s also of grey net, but with silver-
threaded lace and rhinestone jewellery,
Mrs. J. Bonenti wore a ballerina of white
satin covered with filmy black tulle. Mrs.
Alan Pearson added a brilliant scarlet
sash to her gown of black-and-white-
checked taffeta. This function was
organised by a group of Peninsula hosts:
Alan Pearson, Bill Linton, Charles Mann,
Don Watson, Frank Everist, Harold
Brockhoff, Kevin Kennedy and Paddy
Griffin. The proceeds go to the Frankston
Orthopaedic Hospital, and further func-
tions in this good cause will be held later
by this energetic committee.
An engagement of interest is that of
Mrs. Lucy Sechiari, matron of the
Children’s Hospital, to Josef Anton de
Neeve, formerly of Breda, Holland, and
now a liaison-officer with Australian
National Airways. Mrs, Sechiari, who
comes from Darwen, Lancashire, served
with the Queen Alexandra Imperial
Military Nursing Service. Before coming
to Melbourne over four years ago to take
up her present appointment she did a
post-graduate course in London in the
care of children-pediatrics. Mrs. Sechiari
and her fiance plan to marry early in the
New Year, but she hopes always to be
able to do some form of work connected
with pediatrics. Her engagement-ring is
set with a lovely single pearl, and as an
engagement present she gave her fiance a
pearl tie-pin. Mr. De Neeve, who gradu-
ated with honors in economics from the
Rotterdam University and worked with
the Resistance during the war, has been
in this country for 12 months. Mrs.
Sechiari and her fiance met at the home
of Captain and Mrs. Charles Burge ; Mrs.
Burge, before making her home here,
came from Holland.
Mrs. Frank Wright is once more chair-
man of the committee organising the
Battle for Britain Ball, scheduled for the
Royale on September 17. Guests-of-honor
will be the Governor-General and Lady
McKell. The tickets, which are in the
form of the red, white and blue air-force
roundel, were designed by Lady Hardman,
who is patroness of the ball committee.
Roundels will also be used as decoration
•on the supper-tables. Mrs. G. Marshall
(XU3093) is ticket-secretary. Proceeds
from the ball will be in aid of the Air
Force Women’s Association Memorial
Scholarship Patriotic Fund.
Attractive Penelope Giles, who was
recently married to Commander H. A.
Stuart-Menteth, R.N., in his family church
at Godstone, Surrey, England, is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Digby Giles,
of Toorak. Her wedding-gown of ivory
brocade had a sweeping train, long tight
sleeves and a square collar. Madame
Venier, milliner to the Duchess of Kent,
designed the veil of tulle mounted on a
turban band of tulle and scattered with
pearls and rhinestones. The bridegroom's
nephew. Rowan Brain, wearing the Royal
Stuart kilt, and his niece, four-year-old
Penelope Young, attended the bride.
Tower House, Blechingley, the home of
the best man, Tom Mitchell, was the set-
ting for the reception. Melbourne guests
included Mr. and Mrs. Reg Baillieu, the
Kingsley Rowans, Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Forsyth, Gillian Pain and her mother,
Mrs. J. F. H. Pain, Anne Wilton,
Virginia Davenport, Jill Warnock and
Barbara Gilder Smith.
Plans for the fourth annual Navy Ball,
to be held at the Royale on November 6,
are well in hand. Lady Collins is
patroness, and Mrs. R. R. Dowling, wife
of Commodore Dowling, is president of
the committee. Other committee
members are Lady Angliss, Mrs. D. H.
Harries, Mrs. W. Wishart, Mrs. M. Clark
and Mrs. T. Wallace Mitchell. Once
again Mrs. Edward Campbell (Win, 6774)
and Mrs. Gordon Darling (BJ 4356) are
ticket-secretaries, and they have been
joined this year by Mrs. E, Dechaineux
(Win. 1847), and Mrs. Campbell’s sister,
Nancy Woodrow.


KLG
SPARKING PLUGS
WITH
‘CORUNDITE*
INSULATION
t
f°°Ct
ds
S. SMITH & SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
HOB 6
[SJWH^J
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Second Interim Dividend No. 73.
Notice is hereby given that the
Directors have declared a Second
Interim Dividend in respect of the
year ended June 30, 1952, of sixpence
per share sterling, less United King-
dom Income Tax at Nine Shillings
and Sixpence in the £, the net amount
of Dividend being Three Decimal
Point One Five Pence per share ster-
ling. Payable August 22.
The transfer books will be closed
from July 25 to 28, 1952, both days
inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the Divi-
dend will be calculated at the rate of
Exchange ruling on July 25, 1952.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LTD.
R. J. AGNEW,
Attorney.
Missing Beneficiaries.
HOYLE. —By direction of the Judge
given in proceedings in Chancery Division
High Court of Justice England re AMELIA
HOYLE deceased (who died on 10th Feb-
ruary 1922 at 42 Southbank Road South-
port Lancashire England) inquiry is made
for JAMES ROBERT HOYLE or if he died
after 10th February 1922 his personal
representatives or if he died before that
date for his children living at that date
Persons claiming to send to ANTHON i
DEVEREUX ENGLEFIELD of Painters
Hall Little Trinity Lane London E.C.4
England on or before sth March 1953 full
particulars of their clainls In default
claims will be excluded unless the Judge
on application otherwise orders. Dated
3rd July, 1952.—G. S. A. WHEAT-
CROFT, Master. Note: Information is
particularly sought as to the said JAMES
ROBERT HOYLE, or if dead, his personal
representatives or children. The said
JAMES ROBERT HOYLE, who was born
in 1849 at Newchureh, Lancashire, Eng-
land, was a son of ROBERT HOYLE and
ELIZABETH HOYLE (nee Ashworth).
He emigrated to Australia about 1870,
may have gone to New Zealand. He was
last heard of many years ago in Adel-
aide, Australia—PRITCHARD ENGLE-
FIELD & CO., Painters Hall, Little
Trinity Lane, London, E.C.4, England.
Agents for W. & R. HODGE & HALSALL,
Southport, Lancs., England, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO EDWARD FRANCIS CECIL
WHEATLEY late of Ballyrogan near Lake
Oargellico in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that PRANCES
JOAN LAING falsely called WHEATLEY
has filed a Petition for nullity No. 3250
of 1951 on the ground that at the time
of the ceremony of the marriage to your-
self you were then still the husband of
ISABELLA MARY WHEATLEY If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King, Street Sydney by the Third
day of October 1952 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. K. D. MANION & CO., Soli-
citors, of 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ARTUS late of Katoomba.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE JEAN
ARTUS has filed Petition for Divorce
No. 918 of 1952 on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse If you wish to
defend you may file an in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 10th of October 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
PERSONAL ITEMS
It was more than just another arrival
when Captain W. A. Burgoyne sailed
the 300-ton auxiliary ketch Merilyn into
Melbourne the other day. Sydneysiders
might have recognised her as the Narra-
been, which once traded between Manly
and her name-place. She had moved to
Westernport and was trading there when,
in War 11, the Government took her over
to carry super, from Pelsart Island to
Geraldton. Sunk thereabouts and re-
floated, sunk again on the Tasmanian
coast, stripped and towed to Adelaide,
fitted with a diesel-engine and sent to
Melbourne, she was sunk yet again, this
time by a freighter, and lay on the
bottom of the Yarra for 12 months,
declared a total loss by insurance experts.
His faith in her undiminished, Captain
Burgoyne had her refloated and recon-
ditioned ; so her return to Melbourne was
in the nature of a triumph. But she was
in port only a few hours when she was
rammed by another freighter! Patched
up, she faced the rollers of Bass Strait
two hours later.
Landing in Sydney from London next
month, Sir John Nicholson, the dis-
tinguished British surgeon. The reason
for his visit is to attend Sydney Univer-
sity’s centenary celebrations; the reason
for his selection is that he is the grandson
of a founder of the institution. Sir Charles
Nicholson. Sir Charles was the univer-
sity’s Chancellor from two years after its
founding till 1862, and bequeathed to it
the Nicholson Museum. The visitor, who
is a Clinical Fellow in Surgery of Har-
vard, as well as holder of a sizeable string
of British medical degrees, has been sur-
gical specialist to the Ministry of Pen-
sions for the past six years. A lieut.-
colonel in the R.A.M.C. in War 11,
he’s 48.
There’s still a mort of argument left in
Albert Hannan, Q.C., who retired as South
Australia’s Crown Solicitor two days
before his 65th birthday—he is going into
private practice. In the C.S. job for 25
years, Hannan dearly loves an argument,
whether it be in court, at the club or
in the Press. He was in the thick of the
High Court hearing of the bank-grab
case in 1948, presenting his arguments
against the bill for his own State and
Westralia, and he continued them before
the Privy Council the following year.
Before succeeding to his late post, he put
in 10 years as Assistant Crown Solicitor,
and a period as Parliamentary draftsman ;
has lectured at Adelaide University in
various branches of law, and is a member
of the council there. He will use his
retirement to finish his biography of Sir
Samuel Way, one-time Chief Justice and
Lieut.-Governor of S. Australia, and to
prepare a third edition of his The
Summary Procedure of Justices, first
published in 1922.
Charles Henry Bertie, who died on
July 19, the day after his 77th birthday,
was one of the best-liked of Australian
historical workers. A metallurgical
chemist by training, his love of books
made him Sydney Municipal Librarian in
1909, and he held the position for 30
years. His speciality was “old Sydney,”
on which he was an acknowledged
authority and author of a number of
books and pamphlets, A pioneer member
of the Royal Australian Historical
Society, he was one of the two surviving
original Fellows (appointed 1916), the
other being his old friend, K. R. Cramp.
He was a past president of the society
and a councillor at the time of his death.
An earlier appointment of Wing-Com-
mander Michael George Cowan, D. 5.0.,
was as equerry to the then Princess
Elizabeth for her Australian tour. He
was waiting in Mombasa when the tour
was abandoned. Now he goes to
command of No. 34 Transport Squadron, ’
which, based at Mallala (S.A.), is respon-
sible for air-transport to the Woomera
Rocket Range. Cowan has family con-
nection with the equerry business —his
grandfather-in-law was General James
Gordon, one-time commandant of the
Australian Garrison Artillery and aide-
de-camp to the Earl of Kintore when he
was Governor of S. Australia.
There was a unique element about the
awarding of the David Syme prize for
outstanding research at the University of
Melbourne —Dr. H. D. Rathgeber sharing
the prize with Dr. G. Reid, who died
recently. Reid, who was 37, was named
for brilliant investigations into the sub-
stances liberated during the clotting of
blood, important for the light thrown on
the way bleeding from a wounded body
is stopped, and in the preparation of
blood for blood-banks. Dr. Rathgeber
was honored for his work on Heard and
Macquarie Islands, where, in conjunction
with a team of physicists on the Antarctic
islands and at Melbourne University, he
studied cosmic-rays from distant space.
Inspected here by Lambart, Major-
General Roy King had World War I
in Duntroon, absorbing the theory which
he had plenty of chance to put into
practice in War 11. Chief-instructor of
the Southern Command Training School
when the storm burst, he was appointed
to the 19th Brigade —Red Robbie his
boss —and, on 6th Division staff, was in
at the Australians’ early attack on Bardia.
KEY MAN.
Given command of the well-blooded
2/5 Battalion just before Tobruk was first
taken, he took his battalion right through
the Greece and Syria campaigns, coming
out with much experience and D.S.O.
New Guinea fighting followed, with com-
mand of a brigade and award of C.B.E.
When Japan knuckled under, King went
up there in charge of 8.C.0.F.’s Aus-
tralian component, having been Director
of Military Training. Solidly-framed, a
sound tactician and disciplinarian, he
now has Central Command, head-
quartered in Adelaide’s Keswick Barracks.
Paul Badura-Skoda, caught here by Prior
whilst at rehearsal, is a serious and modest
pianist from Vienna who, at 24, is firmly
established as a virtuoso of the front-
rank. A product of the Vienna College
of Music and a pupil of the celebrated
Edwin Fischer, he took to the concert-
platform at 20 and immediately attracted
the attention of Europe’s top-line con-
ductors. Within two years he had made
the Bach Festival in Vienna and the
Mozart Festival at Salzburg—engage-
ments which are never lightly given.
After his present Australian tour, which
he is making for the A.8.C., there are
KEYBOARD.
U.S., Canadian and South American tours
teed up for him, then the great Edinburgh
Festival.
“F.S.”: The finest record of E. J. Brady
is the portrait painted by Justus Jorgen-
sen ; it should be acquired for the nation.
Having chaired the Sydney Stock
Exchange through the financially restric-
tive years of War 11, and the exacting
post-1946 period when controls were
lifted and many new companies were
added to the Exchange list, Frank Tilley
reckons he’s earned an exchange for solid
work-in the shape of retirement and a
long tour of the East. Born at Charters
Towers (Q.), 68 years ago, he has been
a member of the Stock Exchange since
1912, became vice-chairman in 1939 and
chairman two years later. On return
from his trip he will resume activities
in the sharebroking firm established by
his father. He is an integral part of
Killara Golf Club.
Lord Nuffield has gone on record in
print as saying that Hugh William Bell
Cairns, the Australian surgeon, inspired
the benefactions Nuffield made to
Oxford. The world-famous brain
surgeon, born at Port Pirie (S.A.),
went to Oxford from Adelaide Uni-
versity on a Rhodes Scholarship. After
serving in the A.A.M.C. as private and
captain in War I, he returned to Oxford,
rowed in the 1920 crew, and five years
later became Hunterian Professor at the
Royal College of Surgeons. Followed a
long series of medical honors and posi-
tions, ending with the Nuffield Professor-
ship of Surgery at Oxford. From time
to time he was in the news, both through
the brilliance of his surgery, and the dis-
tinguished men he attended, among whom
were Lawrence of Arabia (after the
fatal motor-bike crash), the American
General Patton (after the also fatal motor-
car smash in Nuremburg,) and, last year,
a call to the Prims Minister of Ceylon,
who died before Cairns could reach him.
Many wounded War II servicemen owe
Cairns their lives—it was claimed 94 p.c.
of his cases recovered. Knighted in 1946,
he died at Oxford, aged 56.
“Pip Tok”: A still-stalwart golfer,
claimed to be the oldest living of all
British amateur champions, Peter C.
Anderson, of Swanbourne (W.A.), has
just played his 82nd round with Father
Time. He first trod the links as a mem-
ber of the Royal and Ancient Club when
he was a divinity student of ancient St.
Andrews University, and saw many
champions of the past in action, including
Harry Vardon, Harold Hilton and A. F.
Mac Fie, who won the first British
amateur title in 1885. While still an
undergraduate Anderson beat J. E. Laid-
lay, then twice champion of the U.K.
Leaving the pulpit for the schoolroom,
he came to Australia in 1896 and joined
the teaching staff of Geelong Grammar.
In 1904 he began an association with
Scotch College, Swanbourne, which lasted
till he retired from the headmastership
about five years ago. In Melbourne he
and John Bruce (father of Stanley Mel-
bourne) picked the present site of the
Royal Melbourne course. In Westralia
he helped to lay out the Royal Fremantle
course and the first links at Cottesloe.
Westralian Rhodes Scholar for 1949,
Peter Durack has completed the Oxford
B.C.L. degree course with honors, topping
the pass-list in Equity, which is regarded
as the basis of all law. While abroad,
Durack maintained his interest in poli-
tical and social questions, travelled
through Britain and Ireland in pursuit
of his hobby, made five trips to the Con-
tinent, and was a delegate to a recent
congress of university men in Prague.
He also led the Oxford team in an inter-
’varsity debate against Cambridge.
Belonging to the Durack family who
made overland drives and pioneered the
cattle industry in the Kimberleys, Peter
is a cousin of writers and artists, Mary
and Elizabeth Durack. His father, John
Durack, now a Perth Q.C., served with
the 10th Light Horse in the Palestine
campaign, and was a major in the Army
Legal Department in War 11.
Into the Silence:
In London, at 76, Sir Percy Alfred Harris,
for 10 years, from 1935, chief Liberal Whip in
the Commons, and deputy-leader of the party
during War 11. The son of a Pole who built up
the large drapery-firm of Bing, Harris in New
Zealand, Sir Percy lived in the Fernland for
three years, and produced a book, New Zealand
and Its Politics, as well as an autobiography
on his 40 years in and out of Parliament. His
son, John Ashford Harris, governing-director
of the drapery-firm in Wellington, who succeeds
to the baronetcy, is married to an Australian.
At Oamaru (N.Z.), at 80, Harry Selwood
Williams, who travelled N.S.W. with lantern-
slides before the advent of moving-pictures,
and was into the new industry early enough to
assist as operator in the showing of Queen
Victoria’s funeral-films in N.S.W. When the
Boxer Rebellion broke out he joined the N.S.W.
naval contingent and served under the late
Admiral Lord Keyes, whom he met and yarned
with in 1944 when the ■ admiral toured New
Zealand. Crossing to Maoriland in 1906,
Williams had been in the movie-business ever
since, covering in all some 60 years.
In Sydney, Ronald Charles Osborne, of
Dibbs, Crowther and Osborne. He commanded
a battery in France in War I, coming out with
his majority and M.C. A brother, Frederick,
also a solicitor, who has been M.H.R. for
Evans since 1949, served with distinction in com-
mand of destroyers and sloops in Western
approaches in War 11, winning D.S.C.-and-Bar.
Another brother, Alick, is general-manager of
the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney.
Ron had been The Bulletin’s solicitor for
over 20 years.
In Melbourne, at 54, in tragic circumstances,
J. T. Vinton Smith, leading stockbroker and
committee-man of Melbourne Stock Exchange.
A World War I artilleryman, he won the M.C.
and was mentioned in dispatches. From 193-
to 1937 he represented Oakleigh in the Victorian
Assembly, and unsuccessfully contested the
Federal seat of Corio against J. J. Dedman m
1940. He was a director of several public com-
panies, including Edments Holdings, Carpet
Manufacturers, F. J. Walker and M. B. John.
An oarsman of note in his youth, he rowed in
the champion Mosman (Sydney) crew in 1921
and 1922.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 54, George Gothard
Aitken, who skippered the N.Z. Rugby team in
two Test matches in South Africa in 1921. A
Rhodes Scholar, he made Rugby history at
Oxford as a crack three-quarter-line back.


FOR IOOZCARI OF
YOUR
FlOCKl
I
3
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS
PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH
RUDIP Dual D P 7 ose
For absolute control of Iced and lice.
Rudip makes dipping safe, foolproof
and economical —if does not strip out.
Any Rudip left over after dipping can
be used for blowfly control.
For Ked and Lice Control:
1 gal. to 250 water
For Blowfly Control: 1 gal. to 62 water
DII6CDT Antiseptic
IfllOCr I Emulsion
Powerful cleansing germicidal for every
use in shed or yards. Sterilizes, non-
corrosive, easy solubility. I gal.i
4 gals.
SULFADIP development
of sulphur treatment of Itch Mite and
Mycotic Dermatitis, 28-lb., 56-lb. bags.
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT
Thistles, Burrs, Castor Oil Plant, Docks, Horehound.
etc., can be economically eliminated.
Skeleton Weed in CEREAL crops reduces yield,
down-grades hay quality and can damage valu-
able harvesting machinery.
TAUBMANS No. 6 2-4 D Hormone Weedkiller
TAUBMANS No. 8 2-4 D Amine Hormone Weed-
killer give positive control
SEE OUR NEW WEEDKILLER LEAFLET
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Resistant Tick in N.S.W.
“C.S.”: Douglas Ford, of
Taubmans Chemicals, says that
all 1300 cattle-dips in N.S.W. are
Government-operated, and all
use arsenic. There are approxi-
mately 560 employees of the
Tick Control Board, and tick-
control costs more than £500,000
a year.
Yet large numbers of cattle
are held up at dips because
arsenic is failing to remove ticks.
The result is a costly bottleneck
in cattle movement and loss to
cattle-owners. In addition to
arsenic-resistant ticks, graziers
and dairymen say that arsenic is
dangerous to handle and has an
adverse effect on hide quality
and condition of cattle.
In tests now being conducted
by the Tick Control Board six
dips have been charged with
D.D.T. and one with B.H.C. at
Grady’s Creek. Dairy cattle are
being sent through and dip
samples are being analysed at
Yeerongpilly, Brisbane. The
results should be known within
a month.
Overall results with B.H.C.
have been disappointing. A
B.H-C.-resistant tick has
appeared in Queensland. More-
over, the active isomer of
B.H.C. has tended to disappear
from Queensland dips, although
this loss is not clearly under-
stood. There is also evidence
that arsenic - resistant ticks
quickly become resistant to
B.H.C. Finally, with B.H.C. the
margin between tick-killing con-
centration and cattle-killing con-
centration is not wide enough for
safety.
The usual criticism of D.D.T.
is that cost is too great in com-
parison with standard arsenical
mixtures. However, some claim
that D.D.T. is actually cheaper
since it gives effective control
with a maximum of five dippings
a year whereas it takes at least
12 dippings with arsenic for the
same result.
The Tick Control Board may
decide on immediate adoption of
D.D.T. for all its dips because
no D.D.T.-resistant cattle-tick
has appeared, D.D.T. is deadly
to cattle-tick and its residual
action makes the cattle walking
baits for cattle-tick and buffalo-
fly, D.D.T, is safe for cattle and
humans, leaves cattle with skin-
and coat-quality high, and
adequate supplies are manufac-
tured in Australia, whereas
arsenic is an imported product.
Taxation Help*.
“C. Punch”: Pretty well every
farmer dnd townsman in N.S.W.
will have a chance next month
to talk to taxation officers —if
he wishes. A team of officers
is to tour the country, give per-
sonal interviews and hold public
meetings where warranted. Last
year a similar tour was made in
July, and both sides to the taxa-
tion tangle found them most
useful.
Centre, dates (all in August)
and hours for the coming tour
are:
Albury, Aug. 25, 26, 27 and 28,
9 a.m. to 5 p.m, Armidale, Bth, 10
а. to 5 p.m.; 11th, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Ballina, 20, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Bathurst, 21, 22 and 25, 9 a.m. to 5
p.m. Bega, 18 and 19, 9 a.m. to 5
p.m.; 20, 9 a.m. to noon. Bourke,
4 and 5, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bowral,
4, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 5, 9 a.m. to
noon. Broken Hill, 4,5, 6, 7 and
8, 9 a.m. to. 5 p.m. Casino, 14, 2
p.m. to 5 p.m.; 15, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Cope’s Harbor, 7, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.;
8, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Coonabarabran,
14 and 15, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Coota-
mundra, 11 and 12, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
13, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Cowra, 4,
2 p.m. to 5 p.m.; 5, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
б, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Deniliquin,
4, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.; 5 and 6, 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m. Dorrigo, 8, 10 a.m. to
4 p.m. Dubbo, 7,8, 11 and 12, 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. Forbes, 11 and 12,
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Glen Innes, 12,
10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 13, 9 a.m. to 5
p.m. Goulburn, 21, 2 p.m. to 5
p.m.; 22, 25 and 26, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Grafton, 11, 12 and 13, 9 a.m. to
5 p.m. Griffith, 15, 18 and 19,
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 20, 9 a.m. to noon.
Gundagai, 14, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Gunnedah, 21, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
22, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hay. 7, 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m.; 8, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Inverell, 14, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 15,
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Kempsey, 6, 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m. Leeton, 11, 12, 13 and
14, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Lismore, 18,
19, 20 and 21, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Lithgow, 26, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
27, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Mudgee, 18,
19 and 20, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mus-
wellbrook, 26, 27 and 28, 9 a.m. to
5 p.m. Murwillumbah, 22, 2 p.m.
to 5 p.m.; 25 and 26, 9 a.m. to 5
p.m. Narrabri, 19, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m.; 20, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Nowra,
13 and 14, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 15,
9 a.m. to noon. Orange, 18, 19 and
20, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Parkes, 13, 14
and 15, 9 a.m, to 5 p.m. Portland,
21 and 22, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tam-
worth, 4, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 5 and
6, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 7, 9 a.m. to
3.30 p.m. Taree, 4, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.;.
5, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Temora, 21 and
22, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wagga Wagga,
15, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.; 18, 19, 20 and
21, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 22, 9 a.m. to
3 p.m. Wollongong, 6,7, 8, 11 and
12, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Young, 7, 9
a.m. to 5 p.m.; 8, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Culling Ewes.
“Jubilee”: Crossbred two-tooth
ewes should be from 25 per cent,
to 33 per cent, culled to ensure
an even flock. Pen about 30
sheep in the diamond. Select a
light, tough stick long enough
for the operator, standing in the
middle, to reach to every side of
the pen. On the thin end tie a
dabber filled with powdered
raddle. Keep the ewes moving
slowly round the pen, and, to
the classer in his stand-off posi-
tion, defects will soon be
apparent.
A quick light dab on the face
or head is easily applied. In
exceptional cases only will a ewe
have to be handled.
Culling older ewes is a dif-
ferent job, as type of frame and
wool is there, or should be. The
method as shown for two-tooths
will suffice for most defects, even
of the udder.
Teeth, of course, have to be
examined by handling. If five-
year-old ewes have been bought
for breeding fat lambs, two or
more lambs can be bred from
them by judicious drawing of
long uneven teeth, and a general
even-up of the whole set, until
finally there is nothing left but
bare gums. But, of course, the
grass must then be lush and of
decent length.
Sowing Seeds.
When preparing the
household garden seed-bed, bring
the soil to a fine tilth, level off
with a rake and compact firmly
with the back of a spade. Don’t
crowd the rows. Widely-spaced,
they are easier to spray and
cultivate.
To make the drills, use a corner
of the hoe or rake for fine seeds
and a swan-necked hoe for the
larger kinds. Short, repeated
strokes make a more even and
straighter drill than a long, con-
tinuous stroke. Germination is
always irregular when the drill
is uneven in depth. Seed-drills
running north-to-south get the
most sunshine.
When the weather has been
dry soak the seed-bed before
planting. Scatter the seed
evenly and rather thinly in the
drills. Sown thickly it is wasted,
weaker plants are produced and
the work of thinning-out is
increased. The correct soil
depths are: beet, parsnip and
similar seed about |in. ; peas
about 2in.; larger seed about
3in.
After sowing, replace the soil
over the seed with the back of
the rake and tamp the earth
down lightly.
Thin-out as soon as the plants
are large enough to handle.
Seedlings are ready for the per-
manent bed when 2in. to 3in.
high. Choose stocky specimens.
In the new home spread the roots
out carefully, never double them
up. When the soil’s pressed
about them firmly they strike
quicker. A cool cloudy day is
the best time for the job. Water-
ing, after planting, helps the
plants to settle down.
Tolcill Rats.
“Sarina”: If rats invade the
poultry-yard a poison-box gets
them. Use a wooden or card-
board box with a hinged or
sliding lid. Make a few holes
large enough to let the rats into
the box and put the poison in-
side. The rats will always go
into a box to investigate.
Though there are many effec-
tive rat-poisons, barium car-
bonate is one of the cheapest
and safest to use. One part of
barium is mixed with four parts
of flour and sufficient water to
make a dough. Roll out the
dough thinly, cut into small bis-
cuits and dry in the sun.
Barium is much less deadly than
phosphorus, strychnine and
other poisons, but it is lethal
enough to kill rodents.
Swarm-drafting.
“S.”: A brand-new idea of
bee-drafting results in the
intending swarmers being culled
out from the workers and
clustered to order right where
the beekeeper can handle them
and not —as is customary —
clinging to a twig 40ft up.
Basis of the idea is that those
about to swarm cluster readily.
A sloping board is set before
the colony about to be drafted.
One end abuts on to a cloth
spread at ground-level, the other
is elevated six or eight inches
“And when I die the bulk of me estate 'll go t' charity,"
of Agriculture. It’s effective but
expensive.
It is a white powder which
transforms light, gummy clays
into a friable, crumb-like state,
similar to good garden soils. It
and just falls short of resting on
the alighting-board. The colony
is set aside and a prepared hive
set in its place. All the bees
are then shaken out on to the
cloth, the brood-combs being re-
turned to the new hive-body on
the old site. The bees, as is their
custom, begin to crawl up the
ramp to the entrance, the
workers fly the few inches
necessary to gain the alighting-
board and go into the hive, and
the swarmers go under the board
and form their cluster.
These artificial swarms have
all the characteristics of the fair-
dinkum ones. If you take- the
queen from them they return to
the parent colony. When placed
in a new stand they stay put
better than those that landed up
in the ironbark. They tackle
the job of home-making with
just the same zeal, and it does
away with the heartburn the
bee-herder suffers when he sees
a prime swarm lighting out for
the horizon.
Sugarcane Setts.
“Beroo”: Along with the
development of outfits for dipl-
- cane-setts for protection
against pineapple disease has
come the use of circular-saws for
cutting the setts. The type of
saw, shape of teeth, etc,, doesn’t
seem to matter as long as the
saw is spinning at a good speed.
The cut ends of the setts are
frayed to a varying degree, but
the fraying appears to be an
advantage in that more of the
antiseptic mercurial solution is
absorbed than when the cut is
clean.
Some buds are damaged by
the saw, but not many more than
when cutting by hand.
A cradle mounted on runners
and holding 12-20 stalks, depend-
ing on the variety, is used to
push the sticks against the saw,
with a stop at one end so that
all setts are cut to the same
length; a spring recalls the
empty cradle for the next load.
A good hand-cutter might do 10
bags, or nearly half a ton of
plants, in an hour, but with a saw
it’s easy to do two tons, and an
enthusiast will do three.
Krilium.
“Spes”: A chemical soil-con-
ditioner called krilium has the
blessing of the U.S. Department
will be available commercially in
1953.
A synthetic organic chemical
that is claimed to be more effi-
cient than manure or humus in
soil-improvement, it aerates and
opens soil so that plant roots
can obtain oxygen and utilise
nutrients. It is claimed to be an
effective and economical medium
in control of rain-erosion prob-
lems, and has more possibilities ■
of transforming arid country into
profitable production than any
hitherto - known fertiliser or
manure.
Feeding Pigs.
“Hortus”; Three pints of
separated milk, plus 11b. of
wheat for each month of age
were fed to eight baconer pigs
daily at Grafton (N.S.W.)
Experiment Farm.
To the wheat, which was
given in one feed each day, was
added ground limestone (0.5 per
cent.) and salt (0,5 per cent.).
This ration also included green-
feed. From weaning till killing,
the eight pigs put on weight at
the rate of 1.311 b. per day.
Maize was tried in place of
wheat, but on account of its
lower protein content a poorer
result was obtained, the pigs
putting on only I.lBlb. daily.
A maize-plus-wheat mixture
proved to be nearly as profitable
as wheat alone, the result being
1.281 b. This experiment is
worth studying in view of the
scarcity of protein concentrates,
such as meatmeal.
Kikuyu Grass.
“Penny Seat”: Kikuyu-grass
will sooner or later largely re-
place paspalum, which has been
the basis of N.S.W. North Coast
dairying for so many years.
Kikuyu has shown itself
capable of producing seed under
North Coast conditions, and its
spread to fresh areas is readily
accomplished in the dung of
cattle.
The grass has taken almost
complete possession of the Wol-
longbar Experiment Farm, near
Lismore, where there is hardly
an area left for undertaking ex-
periments on paspalum. During
this conversion, there has been
good opportunity to compare
the two grasses for their relative
value, and kikuyu has come out
well ahead of paspalum, especi-
ally in winter production. This
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The great southern sunspot was likely to have disturbing
weather effects about the end of July. It had, however, lost
a good deal of its energy, which may reduce its effects,
though it should give some further rains.
The cold spell was in accordance with the cyclical graph
and should be followed by some rain. Early in August
should come a cold spell as severe as that of July, followed
by more general rain.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
*D*Lc *
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per'cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent, lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
ctootdtb eookutg.
g%!
r R o^' n6
r
m
A SPECIAL
OVEN FOR EVERY
COOKING PURPOSE
It’s sheer heaven to cook with a
four-oven Aga! In addition to three
hotplates, you have a Roasting oven
big enough to take your Christmas
turkey; a Baking oven to bake cakes
and bread; a Simmering oven for
slow, economical, flavoursome cook-
ing such as soups and casseroles;
and a Warming oven where food
waits unspoilt, hour after hour.
Each Aga oven automatically main-
tains correct temperature , and since
the Aga never goes out it’s always
"just right’’ for cooking.
P.S. Thermostatic control
guarantees fuel economy!
10 YEARS’ GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga Is
guaranteed for 10 years
against faulty materials
or workmanship.
THE 4 OVEN
AGA
. COOKER .
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR THE AGA COOKER
AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
I
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA _
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST AUSTRALIA _ _
TASMANIA
_ _____ 45 King Street, Sydney
_ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
_ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
_ _ _ _ Mai loch Bros. Ltd., Perth
_A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
SB
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA OISSOIVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage m
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
fds
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The simple instruction card supplied
makes it possible for any handyman
to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
“■ DISTRIBUTORS : —““ —
•N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’laud), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator 00. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: H/geia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
*9
m
i
::
Going forward
together
Proud emblem of one
of Australia’s leading secondary industries, the
Lysaght house flag takes its place alongside the national flag of the
Commonwealth as a symbol of the Company’s determination to 'grow
with Australia.’ Huge sums have, in fact, already been spent by the
Company in the modernisation of its various factories at Newcastle and
Port Kembla, and new mills are now in course of erection that will not
only double the Company’s output within the next few years but make
'Lysaght’s’ the most modern sheet steel manufacturing organisation in
the world!
with
Crowing
Australia^)
STONE*. MELBOURNE BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE
Ll 2-«
John Lyseaght (Australia} Ply. ltd.
supports the experience in New
Zealand.
Kikuyu-grass is not by any
means free from stages of un-
palatibility, as suggested by
“1.V.H.” (B. 16/7/’52). It has
its coarse runners, which dairy-
cows will not touch unless they
are somewhat starved.
Rose Clover.
“Thirtum”: California Agri-
cultural Experiment Station
describes rose-clover as a rela-
tively newcomer from the Medi-
terranean region.
After a few years’ observation
rose-clover is believed to be an
acquisition because of its high
percentage of hard seed, which
enables it to regenerate natur-
ally on range land. It also
makes good initial growth on
soils of low fertility.
Rose-clover has been under
observation by N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, but has not
so far been extensively tested.
Further trials are planned.
A New Pickle.
“Myrr”; A new wheat pickle
containing hexachlorobenzene
(H.C.8.) as the active bunticidal
ingredient has been put through
a three-year test by Vic. Depart-
ment of Agriculture. The experi-
menters found that powders con-
taining not less than 10 per cent,
hexachlorobenzene, applied at
the rate of 2oz. per bushel of
seed-wheat, were as effective for
the control of ball-smut as were
similar dressings of mercuric
pickles or copper pickles which
cost more. The department,
however, does not advocate
H.C.B. for control of smuts in
oats and barley.
Tagerim Lucerne.
“H.1.G.”: Though “T.0.K.”
(B. 9/7/’52) says he never heard
of anyone trying tagerim or
tangerim lucerne when it was
advertised back in 1929, he has
now. I tried it, at Penfield (S.
Aust.), and it disappointed me.
The district has a 17in. rain-
fall ; the paddock was a nice
sandy loam with a dense clay
subsoil about 6in, or 7in. deep,
and was similar to other pad-
docks which, when first cropped,
yielded up to 40 bushels an acre
of wheat.
We didn’t super, the new
lucerne, as topdressing wasn’t
the practice then. It did no
better than any other lucerne
and died out in a few years.
The area is now under a muni-
tions works and can’t be
checked.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: The Waite Institute
(S.A.) has proved that E 605 is
effective for thrips. Applied in
the pink-bud stage, when the
pests are causing the browning-
off of the bloom, the chemical
stopped the thrips. Strength of
spray was 0.1 p.c. If thrips
return the advice is to spray
again when 50 p.c. to 75 p.c.
of the flowers have opened.
E 605 is equally effective for red-
spider (one pint to 400ga1.) and
codlin-moth (a pint to 200ga1.).
“Big Billy”: When planting
ornamental trees and shrubs a
handful of super, gives them a
good start. Plant the tree a little
deeper than it was growing pre-
viously. If the soil is wet and
puggy or dry and dusty wait
until it is moist and friable.
“Sundowner”: White butter-
fly, a common pest of cauli-
flowers, may be controlled by
D.D.T., either as a dust or in
wettable form. Use 2 p.c. dust
every two weeks or 50 p.c.
wettable powder (lib. in lOOgal.
of water),
“■Quorn”: All fresh clean
vegetable and fruit parings, stale
but not mouldy bread, edible
hedge-clippings, thinnings from
the vegetable-garden and pnm-
ings of good shrubs, not to
mention the rose-heads discarded
from the vases, come as dainty
morsels to the milch goat.
These bits give variety to the
daily fare, and are especially
valuable when the animal must
be kept in stall during bad
weather. Goats are browsing
animals, and, if given free range,
relish a great number of dif-
ferent herbs, shrubs and trees.
“Pop’s Gal”: If clumps of
myall scrub, left for shade in
cultivated paddocks, die, it is
not because of fertiliser and over-
watering, but because the culti-
vator has gone too close to them.
Roots start from the myall very
near the surface. They fan out
to a circumference much greater
than the tree’s spread. Every
foot or so subsidiary roots go
down. It is this system of root-
ing which enables the tree to
stand long periods of drought;
The surface roots refresh the
tree from showers of rain, the
others collect moisture from
below. If, when cultivating the
surface, the roots are broken, the
myall dies.
“C.A.A.”: Good control of
most garden insect pests will be
obtained by applications of
D.D.T. 2 per cent, dust every
two weeks, or D.D.T. 50 per
cent, wettable powder {\oz. in
4gal. of water) every two or
three weeks.


established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON^
OSUIXIVAN
bri’s?' V
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THIS
TRACTOR
MEANS
/MA XOJMJOXt /
f
dsf
dsf
ryffiHia
,,AHVERS\kJM£& R
Does more /'obsper
more wort; per e/ay, 00
Its 6-way power fits it lor so many jobs all through the year that its cost per
tractor-hour is low. Its drawbar h.p.. highest in its class, means it does more
work per day. And its fuel-thrift means big savings on your fuel bills! In short,
owners everywhere agree here is a tractor that has everything, does
everything better, quicker and cheaper!
■jAf You get the same versatility, efficiency and even greater economy with the
Nuffield Universal Diesel.
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
PETER LLOYD LIMITED
Victoria:
KELLOW FALKINER PTY. LTD.
Queensland:
FLINDERS MOTORS LTD.
South Australia:
KINGSWAY LIMITED
Western Australia:
PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
ds
ON-THE-FARM SERVICE. GENUINE SPARE
PARTS AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE
FROM AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
mraN
Wivaa
NUFFI'rjP PTV !.m VJCTQPiA PARK 7ETIAND, N*W SOUTH WA» FS
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
4* ■J* *s*
“An eminent British doctor has
advised his nerve patients to take up
knitting.”
A couple of needles will soon
steady them.
•h
“A beggar who died in Turin left
a handsome bang balance.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
Thus exploding public belief
in his poverty.
4* 4*
“Extremely low-cut dresses are
definitely a mistake.” —Fashion note-
But one that’s sure to be over-
looked.
*1- -I-
“Palmistry was regarded as a
science in ancient times.”
— “World’s News.”
But its claims got entirely out
of hand.
4* 4* 4*
“Girls travelling on a budget should
take plenty of warm clothes.”
—Advice in women’s paper.
Otherwise their new surround-
ings will leave them cold.
4* 4* 4*
“Men who criticise women who
wear ‘falsies’ are illogical.”
■ —Correspondent in Sydney “D.T.”
Their views are not founded
on fact.
4" 4* 4'
“Next on the list of American aids
to Persia, southern neighbor of
Russia, are 35,000 hen-eggs for
hatching.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Something should come out of
this.
Hospital Bulletin.
When I am lying racked with
pain
Here in a chill aseptic ward
Where gloomy thoughts invade
the brain
And sufferers lie overawed
By nurses prim, I’ll not
complain.
Though meat is tough and spuds
are few
And I am wakened with the
chooks
By cold ablutions done anew,
I shall not winge though I’ve
no books
And not one pal in all this crew.
Of such discomforts I’ll make
light
But how I’d love to spank the
nurse
Who says in accents falsely
bright,
When cobbers phone, though
I am worse:
“He spent a comfortable night.”
D.H.E.
Model Answers for Chemists
Who Are Asked Medical
Questions.
Q. : I keep coming all over
shivery. What would that
indicate, and what could I take
to stop it ?
A.: It could be caused either
“Are you sure we’re before the right judge?”
through just having ridden in
an old “bomb” or from sleeping
in an unnatural position, say with
your feet in the middle of your
back. A cold plunge-bath fol-
lowed by a brisk rub-down with
a clinker-brick, and sucking a
XXXX-peppermint every two
minutes for a few hours, should
induce a return to a normally
placid state.
Q.: My little girl is complain-
ing about a pain in the stomach.
What do you think would be the
best thing to give her ?
A.: This could indicate either
a strained cartilage in the knee,
incipient elephantiasis or fatty
degeneration of the pelvis. The
treatment is the same. Give her
a half-pint of senna-tea, two
pork chops and some raw
cabbage that has been soaked in
salad-oil. If the pain still persists
put her stomach in plaster, and
keep her head between her knees
for about 20 minutes so as to
restore the circulation to her
pancreas, and put hot-water
bottles under her armpits. If
this fails to give the desired relief
twist one of her toes ; that will
cause her to forget all about the
other pain.
Q.: I have a boil on the hack
of my neck. What can I get for
it ?
A.: In view of the fact that it
is now a buyers’ market, not as
much as you would have six
months'ago. Your best plan
would be to advertise it in the
local paper.
Q.: I want something to get
rid of varicose veins?
A.: The treatment is simple.
The main thing is to take the
weight of your body off your
legs, thus allowing the veins to
wither and die through lack of
exercise. The best way to do
this is learn to walk on your
hands. You should also take a
tablespoon of carb. soda in a
glass of rum after every meal
and whenever you wake in the
middle of a nightmare.
Q.: I have developed a tennis
elbow. Have you got anything
to relieve it ?
A.: There is something on the
market, but I wouldn’t recom-
mend it —it’s just a racquet.
Immediate relief may be
obtained by holding the elbow
in a half-set blancmange until
you begin to perspire below the
ears. After this some gentle
exercise may be given the elbow
by lifting a filled vitreous vessel
up to face-level and putting it
down again empty.
Q.: This wart on the back of
my hand—what is the best way
to get rid of it ?
A.; There are alternative
methods. You can use a wood-
rasp (though never a heavy
second-cut file); put it carefully
against a revolving circular-saw
so that it is taken off cleanly
where it joins the hand ; dunk it
in sulphuric acid; put some
fracteur on the top of it and hit
it with a hammer. If the circular-
saw method is used extreme care
should be taken to see that you
don’t take any hot liquids for at
least four minutes afterwards,
otherwise you hair may fall out.
Q.: I have had the hives badly
for a week. What would you
recommend that I take ?
A.: It is recognised that hives
can cause a lot of bee trouble.
Dusting the affected part all over
with pollen will be found very
beneficial. An application of
wax will also help to clean them
up. If they are in the scalp, how-
ever, it would be wise not to put
a comb near them. Banging a
tin and making a lot of smoke
will also get marvellous results at
certain times of the year, and
you must eat lots of honey.
1 Q.: My heel keeps getting very
nasty. What would you recom-
mend ?
A.: Get nasty with him.
Q.: I start to puff badly after
I have run only a mile uphill. I
may be carrying too much
weight. How could I reduce?
A.: By keeping strictly to the
following diet you should reach
the desired state of emaciation
that should allow you to
compete in cross - country
marathons without exhibiting
pulmonary distress:
Breakfast: One portion fried
watermelon, i guava,
1 flake of oatmeal.
Lunch: Glass of tepid water,
1 cigarette.
Dinner: One sardine head,
\ Brussels sprout, 1
Barcelona nut (without
kernel).
Q.: My baby has got a little
hoarse learning to talk. What is
the best thing I can do ?
A.: Nothing at all. If she
eventually succeeds in training it
you’ll have a first-class vaudeville
act.
Q.: I have gone deaf in one
of my ears, and though I've
picked at it with a match it
hasn’t got any better. Is there
anything else I Can try ?
A.: Yes. A knitting-needle.
Don’t poke too hard, though,
because if it goes right through
and comes out the other ear you
might be in danger of develop-
ing fallen arches and dandruff.
Q.: My chest has dropped —■
have you a patent-medicine for
it ?
A.: We can make you up a
mixture, but the best thing to
do is develop a hump on your
back as a counterbalance.
Bo.
Salvation.
“Doesn’t eat off, smear off or kiss
off.” —Cosmetic advt.
They’ve now produced, it would
appear,
An aid to vanity which passes
Strict tests; it doesn’t leave, my
dear.
Unsightly smears on cups or
glasses ;
On manly visage leaves no mark
{Than which there is no tell-
tale greater).
What’s more-, when I achieve the
favor
Of your shy charms in lane or
park
There’ll be no piquant passion-
flavor
Recurring with my supper
later.
P.O.M.C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Chaos or Union?
I don’t like this proposal to return
income-taxation to the States, even if their
Governments have brought it on them-
selves. However it may fare, it is an
admission and acceptance of their exces-
sive power and influence in the scheme of
things Australian. And what this nation
needs in the field of finance, indeed in
all fields, is something it has never had,
except in time of war, when the States
had to make themselves scarce—union.
Union under one Parliament with
supreme and unchallengeable powers,
such as has ridden out all storms in
Britain.
It is not assailing the memory of the
able and patriotic men who gave us our
Federal and State Constitutions to sug-
gest, after half-a-cenlury’s experience,
that they took the wrong turning. The
Federal system had a great vogue in the
’nineties. It made a romantic appeal.
Hadn’t it only recently in the U.S.A. sur-
vived a great civil war? As to that, some
of our State Premiers have been talking
in terms which, except that they don’t
threaten hostilities, not distantly recall
the utterances of Jeff Davis and his asso-
ciates. They and their confederates,
present and past, have been allowed to
take extravagant views of their powers
and rights. They are throned in excessive
and overpaid Parliaments, have built up
enormous and ever-expanding public ser-
vices and have denied to their outback
regions control of their own affairs and a-
proper share of public expenditure, sub-
jecting even great parts of Australia like
northern N. S. Wales and North Queens-
land to crazy forms of Big-City rule.
The most prominent of these persons
at the moment, Mr. Cahill, of Sydney, is
boasting that he has won two by-elections
on the cry that the national Government
has refused him all the millions he is
demanding, and may decide to try to win
a general election on the same cry. No
such boast could possibly be heard in
Britain. There are no counterparts of
Cahills or Gairs there. Neither do they
have Premiers’ Conferences, Loan Coun-
cils and the like in Canada, the most pros-
perous of the Dominions, nor in New
Zealand.
We have never really understood nor
have we become reconciled to our Federa-
tion. The British system we did and
could understand. We should have
adopted the British model, adapting it to
our own circumstances ; and it is not too
late yet. There has been no unification
movement for many years, but the situa-
tion is such that It could be strongly
revived. An old Australian Natives Asso-
ciation man tells me that unification is
still its policy.—D. Empson (N.S.W.).
Pensions and Tax
This is how some people, who have
worked all their lives and made provision
for their old age, are dealing with the
means test (B. 4/7/ ’52). A railwayman,
who owns his own house, found that
upon his coming retirement, the railway
pension would be less than the amount
both he and his wife would be entitled to
from the Social Service Department.
What did he do? Simply resigned from
the service a few months before the retir-
ing age, thus qualifying for a refund of
the money he had contributed to the
superannuation fund. With this lump-
sum he and his wife made a trip to
England, spent the lot, and, on their
return, claimed the old-age pension. He
reckoned he would have been a fool to
do otherwise. — Ceg (Vic.).
Floods
“Dane” (B. 9/ 5/ ’52) might look at the
rainfall figures for May-June at Cowra
(N.S.W.) on the Lachlan—l94B, 4.88 in.;
’49, 3.46 ; ’5O, 7.63 ; ’5l, 4.65 ; ’52, 8.51 —
and to compare them with the mean for
the same period over the last 60 years:
4.05 in. Floods are caused by abnormal
rains; they are made more intense by
man.
There are no indications that our
nearly-perennial streams (as contrasted to
the seolian sand-drifted beds of “the
Centre”) are silting up any faster than
they did 200 years ago—before civilisa-
tion disturbed this land.
“Dane” is correct in his assessment of
“Shift over, mate, I'm getting cold .”
the ultimate cause of our worries
“cultivation, ringbarking and consequent
erosion.” This is how it happens,
Consider an area of forest. A cyclonic
storm deposits 6in. of rain on the area
in, say, two days. Two inches of rain
have fallen before there is any run-off,
and the underbrush will continue to seep
goodly streams for 10 days after the rains
have gone. One-and-a-half inches of the
rain will be retained in the forest and
will be transpired by the vegetation.
Cleared and under grass the same land
would shed water after perhaps an
inch of rain, but soakage would reach
adjacent watercourses for several days
after the end of the rains. In an eroded
state—the result of heavy grazing or care-
less cultivation—2s points of rain would
suffice to start a run-off, which would
cease within hours of the storm’s end.
Practically no water would be retained
by the soil.
The change from forest to bare country
will result in storms of equal intensity
depositing rather more water in the river
valleys in only a fraction of the original
time. That is, the rate of flow in the
river will be much higher ; or, conversely,
a storm of lesser intensity will suffice to
cause the river to burst its banks. “Dane”
should reconcile himself to the fact that
there is no “safe” river grazing-country.
Instead of advocating a Canute-like
stand by our State Governments against
the waters when they are in the river
valleys, “Dane” should raise his voice in
the cause of catchment-treatment—treat-
ment which will restore, at least in part,
the capacity of the catchment areas to
hold stormwaters and to release them
more gradually.—W. S. Y. (N.S.W.).
Butter
As a dairyman I reckon that the latest
rise in the price of butter is fantastic and
uneconomical and will not lead to any
appreciable increase in production.
Owners of good dairyfarms will make
fortunes either by selling or working their
farms. Farms that a few years ago would
be dear at £3OOO or £4OOO are now offer-
ing and selling at up to £lO,OOO, and, in
some instances, close to £20,000. It’s also
a wonderful cop for the inefficient farmer
on a poor farm, who, by working his
farm himself, can make a living in good
seasons and cry for assistance in the
droughts which follow.
The efficient farmer on good land will
be inclined to go slow to avoid excessive
taxation. In spite of high prices very few
farmers will employ labor at over £lO a
week —it is against their nature. Many
prefer doing just what they can do them-
selves —milk fewer cows and go in for
mixed farming.
There are instances of 20 cows pro-
ducing £lOO a month and cows selling at
£7O at auction. That will make it impos-
sible for any newcomers to start in the
game, and will ultimately lead to the
defeat of the main object of the increased
price—higher production.
The main reason for the decline in
dairy production was, with grain sorghum
£2 a bag, maize 18s. a bushel, wheat the
same and potatoes £3O a ton, money
could be made under easier conditions
than dairying. And while those condi-
tions continue there will be no considerable
increase in dairy production.—N. K (Q.).
Stand Up, There
As a strong Menzies supporter, and as
one who’ll keep on supporting him when
it comes to the vote, I expected about
the first thing he’d do when he got in
would be chuck out top Socialist bureau-
crats, wipe the Reds from Government
service and abolish unwanted controls. He
hasn’t done so, and I think The Bulletin
ought to be telling him about that, and
other things, instead of wasting its
Wimble’s on blown-out drongoes like
Doc. Evatt and poor old McDonald, —
C.C.L. (Vic.).
A Murray Port
In condemning the idea of a port for
the Murray (B. 16/7/’52) as a hopeless
idea, in “the considered opinions of the
world’s best harbor engineers,” H. A.
Lindsay apparently ignores the reports of
Sir John Coode, Goyder, Abernethy,
Capt. Douglas, Mais, A. B. Moncrieff,
Lindon Bates, Stuart Murray, and Col.
E. N. Johnston. Sir John Coode, who
suggested tjie improvement of the mouth
itself, was the greatest harbor engineer
in the world of his day, and Colonel
Johnston was the greatest authority for
this century on aids to river navigation
and on the construction of ports at river-
mouths.
As to there not being cargoes to carry
on the Murray, one has only to look at
the amount of goods hauled on the rivers
before the State-owned railways set out
to destroy the river-trade by means of
price-cutting. The S.A. Engineer-in-
Chief has only lately called for a re-
development of the steam navigation of
the Murray, as the best way of serving
the river towns.
If a Murray port “is a wild-cat
idea” it has had many sober supporters.
Among them were Alfred Deakin, who
believed that the opening of the mouth
to the sea was essential to the develop-
ment of the Murray Valley, and
Governor Musgrave, who said that S.A.
should “pawn its clothes” rather than
fail to connect the river-trade with ocean-
going ships.— Stweeler (S.A.).
Commonwealth Employment Service
Most of the replies to my criticism of
the C.E.S. (B. 21/5/’52) have stressed
the value of the service to the itinerant
worker, and at least one has praised the
convenience it provides for prospective
country employers who can visit the
city and interview potential workers
quickly and comfortably.
But should the taxpayer be called upon
to provide either of these services?
Under normal employment conditions
the seasonal worker in Australia can
easily find his own billet, and employers,
as a rule, don’t have much trouble.
As for vocational guidance provided
by C.E.S., maybe in this day and age it
is better for some bureaucrat to tell
youngsters what sort of work they should
commit themselves to for life, but it cer-
tainly wasn’t the order in my day, and
I’m still well on the right side of 40.
Surely a youth and his parents, in council,
can decide what he should do for a crust
without calling on some stranger whose
own vocation, to say the least, is scarcely
productive?
As for the cost of the C.E.S., it is
about the same as the U.K.’s contribu-
tion to the United Nations Organisation :
about £2 million. — Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 184
Across.
I—He1 —He is foolish to send lubras to
jail. (7)
5 —A boy in pain all knight. (7)
B—They urge the population to
strike those who give Cupid a
hand. (5-6)
10—Georgia’s fuel. (3)
, 11 —Quivers for these. (6)
13—Knighted automobile for an
Indian factotum. (6)
16— Stallion begins and ends the
stockfeed. (5)
17— Firm sister with the tympanum
equipment. (9)
18 — Cap rhymed badly for an
elephant, for instance. (9)
20 —Healthy to probe a strait noise.
(5)
22 — Barney is disorderly when handy.
(6)
23 — Three prepositions entirely. (2, 4)
25—Possess. (3)
27 —A parent managed your_ relative
of the flower of immortality. (11)
29—Willows let in the steamer when
Sarah moos. (7)
3S> -Trim little sister with partial
paralysis. (7)
Down.
1— James conserves the heeby-jeebies.
(7)
2 Fiddlestring thanks the fish with
a rubber-like material. (11)
3 Remain firm in the location of a
male communist’s breakfast after
breakfast. (7)
4 This is a matter of course to a
health resort. (3)
5 Where ships may tie up Miss
Angeli. (4)
6 Man’s best friend, yet we eat it
hot. (3)
7 Cure an order against noisy
pianism. (7)
9—Shoot 101 swallowed by the male
offspring. (5)
12—Equipped with an inner thread
like a candle, which is very bad
indeed. (6)
14 — Horns of plenty grain on you,
with the policeman and I just
so. (11)
15 — Its shadow points to the time on
a sundial with no little hybrid
rising. (6)
18— Writer leaves Hungarian coins. (7)
19 — Sailor Bay upset a barracker
town in Queensland. (5)
20— Vehicle is one who skedaddles
quickly. (7)
21— What steep ladles seen in amuse-
ment parks? (7)
24 —Macaulay works of most interest
to poultry-farmers. (4)
26 —Love a duck. (3)
28 —Peak of the party. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 183


Renard s motor-powered balloon—lBB4
1111111 »»111111 ii n i
AH IB
i
s ; : -m&m
m
u
: m
ii
The Wn'ghf Brothers' plane—l9o3
XV fi f
/ X.. 111
....V
4 rokksr twin-engine biplane—circa 1918
' V
-
is
iSlfel
i
LiriSSrj
:ws
To-day's supersonic research plane — obsolete
before if leaves the draught board.
We grew up
When was the dream of flying born?
History doesn’t tell us, but it probably
saw birth countless thousands of years ago
when the first man saw the first bird.
For no one knows how long, aviation—
“the action of birds”—was just a dream in
the minds of men. Those who voiced their
dream were jeered at, laughed at, scorned
by those who regarded the mere idea as
lunatic and absurd.
But to some, the idea, the dream, was a
challenge that dared them into attempting
what seemed the impossible.
So they went to work to build the
machines that they hoped would lift them up
into the sky.
Some succeeded, others failed—some
lived, many died.
Progress was slow because they had
neither the tools, nor the experience, for the
work of building these flying machines.
It was not until late last century—-in
1884—that real progress was made, for in
that year a Frenchman named Renard made
the first controlled balloon flight. His
balloon was a clumsy affair of ropes and
wire and wood and canvas and a nine horse-
power motor —but it was history.
Then on December 17, 1903, the Wright
brothers, Orville and Wilbur, made and flew
the first real aeroplane on the sands at
Kitty-Hawk in the U.S.A.—-and the air age
was bom.
In less than 70 years——after years and
years of patient struggling—man has learnt a
lot about flying and in 49 years, since that
historic flight in 1903, the impact of aviation
has changed our lives and the world we live
in.
In the same time we have grown from
our first small office in Sydney to an Empire-
wide organisation providing security to over
1,000,000 policy holders.
grew us
-avi
>n and the
The
M.L.C.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Established in 1886
