

The Bulletin
'“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3761
Wednesday, March 12, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
SHERBORNE ABBEY,
PERPENDICULAR ARCHITECTURE
AT ITS BEST.
/~VN the banks of the River Yeo, near
Vale of Blackmore in Dorset, lies
the ancient town of Sherborne, which
grew up around a monastery established
here in the seventh century. In 705,
during the reign of Ine, King of the West
Saxons, it became the seat of a bishopric
and St. Ealdhelm, who built the
Cathedral, became its first bishop. Later,
in 1075 the See of Sherborne was trans-
ferred to Old Sarum and the Cathedral
of Sherborne became the Abbey Church.
During the early part of the twelfth
century the Saxon Abbey Church was re-
placed by a Norman building, and much
of this structure remains today. Further
alterations were carried out in the
fifteenth century and although retaining
some Norman characteristics it is now
one of the finest examples of the
Perpendicular style of architecture in
Britain.
One of the notable features of the
interior is the magnificent fan-vaulting
which is of unusual richness. Behind the
high altar are the tombs of two Saxon
kings of Wessex —Ethelbald (860) and
Ethelbert (866). The tower contains a
ring of eight bells, the largest of which,
weighing two and a quarter tons, was a
gift from Cardinal, Wolsey. Sir Walter
Raleigh fell under the charm of Sher-
borne when passing through the town on
his many journeys between Plymouth and
London and in 1544 he lived here with his
wife and frequently worshipped at
Sherborne Abbey.
On the thirtieth of September, 1940,
Sherborne suffered heavily from an
enemy air-raid when over three hundred
bombs were dropped in five minutes.
Although much property was destroyed,
the Abbey escaped with only slight
damage.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPEIT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C4.


Learn
EfflE®330
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(8.8.252) ....Age
The Red Page
CHARLES HARPUR .
Charles Harpur, “the grey forefather
of Australian poetry,” as it has become
fashionable to call him, holds at least
one record yet unequalled in Australian
letters: he impressed a hard-boiled
Sydney editor and publisher so strongly
that the latter presented him, free and
for gratis, with an edition of 500 copies
of his own poems. Harpur’s poems, that
is. The fact leads one to wonder at the
manner of man this Charles Harpur must
have been, for his poetry in itself can
never have wrought such a miracle. At
least, one wouldn’t have thought so—
or why is it forgotten? There has been
no adequate edition of his verse since
1899, just twenty-one years after he
gained his majority as an “immortal.”
Gifford and Hall’s pious little pamphlet
of seven years ago hardly counts as a
re-edition of his work.
As soon as one begins to study
Harpur’s life and work, however, the
editor’s action—it was Duncan, of the
“Weekly Register”—becomes understand-
able. Charles Harpur, whatever else he
was, was an undeniably impressive man.
It is not his patriarchal appearance, his
waist-length beard and cold eye, nor even
the admiration of Henry Kendall and
Deniehy, that convinces one of it; for
after all Kendall and Deniehy were
fellow-poets, and might be expected to be
in sympathy with his outlook. What
strikes one is the testimony of men like
Henry Parkes, John Robertson and
Robert Lowe, later Viscount Sherbrooke
—all of them leaders of men and shrewd
judges of character. Their actions speak
even louder than their words. Henry
Parkes’s home was Harpur’s home when-
ever he came to Sydney ; John Robertson
appointed him a gold-commissioner,
and anyone who knows what an unruly,
contentious lot the diggers were knows
that job was no sinecure ; while Robert
Lowe on the eve of his departure for
England, where he was eventually to
become Chancellor of the Exchequer,
offered Harpur a free trip to accompany
him. Harpur’s reception of this last offer
clinches one’s impression of him as an
unusual man. He thanked Lowe warmly
for it, but solemnly explained that as a
native-born Australian his first duty was
to study his own country; he was too
busy yet to travel the world. One may
be disposed to regret that in turning down
the opportunity he condemned himself to
cultural provincialism, but what magni-
ficent insularity! As it happens, it was
a thoroughly characteristic act, and
proved him to be the son of his father.
Both his parents were convicts who
later were pardoned, and lived on the
outskirts of respectable society at
Windsor. Here the father, Joseph
Harpur, become parish clerk and school-
master under Macquarie’s paternal eye,
until removed from the post during the
reorganisation following the latter’s de-
parture, when Harpur became host of
the Royal Oak Inn, also at Windsor.
Joseph Harpur, too, was an impressive
man. His children called him “the Sage.”
He had been a solicitor’s clerk in Eng-
land. The offence for which he was trans-
ported is forgotten. He was given to
religious enthusiasm, and got into hot
water with Macquarie on one occasion
for lending the schoolhouse for a
Methodist meeting. At home he insisted
on the family’s systematic reading of the
Bible. He took an intelligent interest in
the growing community about him, and
at one time proposed to write a history
of New South Wales, but dropped it
from lack of support. He possessed a
constitutional melancholy which his
transportation naturally increased, and
©very subsequent setback seemed a
judgment of God.
“Like father, like son.” Charles
Harpur’s life followed a similar pattern.
Like his father he remained on the edge
of society, but from inner choice rather
than from compulsion. Thus he withdrew
from Sydney, whither he had gone as a
young man, when within an ace of win-
ning literary recognition. He refused
Lowe’s proffered trip to England to meet
Wordsworth and his admired Landor.
And in later life when he enjoyed a
spiritual authority greater than any other
Australian poet has ever enjoyed, or is
ever likely to enjoy in our day, he with-
drew into a retirement so strict that
Kendall, his literary agent, was his only
correspondent, and Harpur even con-
sidered cutting him out and publishing
nothing more during his lifetime. He
does not wish to be associated in any
way with “the present race, of Aust
tralians . . . even the best of my contem-
poraries being such a lot ; fellows that
make one ‘hang the head to call himself
a man.’ ” And he wrote the following
satirical epitaph upon himself:
Here lies Charles Harpur, who at
50 years of age (he died aged 55)
came to the conclusion that he was
living in a sham age, under a sham
Government, and amongst sham
friends, and that any world whatever
must therefore be a better world than
theirs. And having come to this con-
clusion, he “did his dying” and now
lies here with one of his sons, in the
hope of their meeting in some place
better fitted to make them happy and
keep them so, than this from which
they have departed. And even if all
that now remains of them is what
remains below, it is still well;
inasmuch as in that case, they are
safe from all malignity, whether of
God or Devil, that would any further
afflict them.
If it were not for the fact that he made
good that solemn pronouncement to
Lowe about serving one’s country, we
might dismiss this outburst as an attack
of the liver or the wingeing of a
nonentity; but when we recall his
youthful dedication of himself to his
native land, and we realise that he stands
pre-eminent among our poets as one who
made a direct and important contribu-
tion to our national life at a critical
period, this professed misanthropy takes
on the appearance of disappointed
idealism. It was also the prolonged
shadow of his father’s shame. And even
that is not the whole story.
Accidental explanations are not want-
ing, of course, to account for it. It is
usual to cite his dismissal from his com-
missionership, the death of his son by a
self-inflicted wound, and the ruin of his
farm by floods —all within the space of
two years—as decisive events in his life.
But it is difficult to escape the conviction
that he would have ended as he did, what-
ever the accidental events of his life had
been. This impression of him, as a man
playing a role instinctively chosen, or, if
you will, predestined, is strengthened
when the events of his life are considered
objectively. By normal standards his was
not an unsuccessful life.
Bom in 1813, the year in which Went-
worth, Blaxland and Lawson crossed the
Blue Mountains, Harpur had a pleasant
enough boyhood at Windsor —riding,
fishing, shooting, mountain-climbing,
helping with the seasonal farm-work.
He had the usual boy-love-affair with a
girl who married another. At nineteen
he went to Sydney, became a clerk in the
post-office and had his verses published
in periodicals. Even his return to the
country at thirty follows a pattern not
unusual then, and resulted in his getting
his own farm, marrying the woman he
really loved and bringing up a creditable
family.
He had been interested in politics in
Sydney, and while his friends Parkes and
Lowe were fighting the anti-transporta-
tion battle against Wentworth, Harpur
rallied the backblocks behind them. He
helped his neighbor, the squatter John
Robertson, to draft a Land Act which
ended the squattocracy ; and when the
latter became Premier and brought down
the bill, Harpur reaped his reward in the
shape of his gold-commissionership.
True, that commissionership was done
away with when the diggings petered-
out; but he still had his farm,
and would in time have been
made a stipendiary magistrate, had
he lived. It was sheer misfortune,
you might say, that he died when he did,
as a result of a cold caught while mend-
ing his fences after a flood.
But shift the angle of vision the merest
fraction, and this account is seen to be
wholly inadequate. Instead you realise
he had to die when he did. His pride
demanded it of him. The gulf between
his achievement as a poet and his
standards as a critic left him no
alternative.
It was as a critic that Harpur first
won popular respect and literary power.
He owed it largely to the publicity which
Deniehy gave to his poetry among the
cognoscenti, that he appeared in Sydney
as a public lecturer on poetry, in October,
1859 ; but it was this public appearance
and what he said on the occasion that
gave him a wider following. He dis-
criminated three kinds of poetry: that
of “talent,” which he illustrated by refer-
ence to the 18th-century po&ts ; that of
“absolute genius,” with Milton and
Wordsworth as exemplars ; and that of
the “household affections,” which he
claimed lay between the other two, sub-
ordinate to both. ,He asserted that from
Dryden’s day onwards it had been the
poetry of “talent” which had passed for
poetry with the British public at large.
This type affected primarily the bodily
attributes of beauty and truth; that of
“absolute genius” had to do with
“spiritual” attributes, with “esoteric
divinity.” He concluded by affirming an
absolute standard of taste; great poetry
confirms our ideality, false poetry
confuses it.
As reported in the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” the lecture was not only pro-
found but eloquent, and illustrated by
the moving recital of great poetry. It
was said later that this moment marked
the zenith of his lifetime repute —which
is probably true. Poets are usually
known, if at all, to the public by their
public appearances, seldom by their
works.
Harpur’s poetry falls into the follow-
ing text-book categories: there are the
sonnets, the lyrics, the narrative poems
and the visionary poems. It was the
sonnets that Deniehy praised most, liken-
ing them to those of Wordsworth’s, and
by no means to Harpur’s discredit. It
was an unfortunate comparison, because
if it had to be made at all, and perhaps
it did, seeing that Wordsworth enjoyed
a pre-eminent reputation as a sonneteer
at the time, Deniehy ought to have made
it the occasion of a contrast, rather than
a comparison direct. As a sonneteer
Harpur is only like Wordsworth when he
fails. When Harpur fails, I mean. When
he succeeds he is not a bit like Words-
worth. Take the fine sonnet on “Andrew
Marvel” (sic);
Spirit that lookest from the starry fold
Of Truth’s white flock, next to thy Milton
there,
Accept my reverence, though feebly told!
And, oh, my heart, from thy Example rare.
Henceforth its Being for worthiest Ends
would bear!
Thy thoughts and deeds were towering all
and bold,
And like the steadfast Columns that uphold
Some awful Temple, to thy Duty were.
How much thy Story hath enlarged my ken
Of human greatness; of mere Heroes, I
With indignation ever read —but when
Of thee, as lifted into Virtue’s sky,
I feel how nobly all may live and die,
And glory in my brotherhood with Men.
Technically, to begin with, this is better
contrasted than compared with Words-
worth’s sonnets. Wordsworth attempts
to hold the balance evenly between the
inner and outer unities of parts and
whole. He does so by invariably running
the eighth line into the ninth, thus bind-
ing octave to sestet syntactically; and
within the octave he simply repeats his
twofold, enclosed rhymes, and within the
sestet blocks his new rhymes compactly.
The compactness is the prevailing
character.
Harpur, on the other hand, explicates
the sonnet to the utmost of his power,
short of shattering its form. He contrasts
the parts, both for ear and eye, distin-
guishes the first half of the octave from
the second, and only when he reaches
the sestet does he begin to draw the
fopm together, and then only in the last
three lines.
As for the mood of the subject, there
is the contrast of Harpur’s radical repub-
licanism with Wordsworth’s vague
liberalism. Wordsworth would never
have written “Of mere Heroes, I With
indignation ever read,” Nor would
Milton, even. Here speaks the Aus-
tralian. But Deniehy was right to draw
attention to the sonnets. They represent
a real achievement, particularly on the
technical side. And they have been
entirely overlooked since Deniehy, until
Salier undertook his recent study of
Harpur, which has not yet been
published.
Harpur’s lyrics, on the other hand, are
probably the best-known part of his
work. His “Midsummer Noon in the
Australian Forest” is in most of the
recent anthologies, and is generally
regarded as his best poem. Harpur
himself would have dissented strongly.
To him it would have appeared as the
poetry of “talent,” concerned with the
“bodily attributes of beauty.” But it is
a charming poem, whatever it is:
Not a sound disturbs the air,
There is quiet everywhere;
Over plains and over woods
What a mighty stillness broods!
All the birds and insects keep
Where the coolest shadows sleep;
Even the busy ants are found
Resting in their pebbled mound;
Even the locust clingeth now
Silent to the barky bough:
Over hills and over plains
Quiet, vast and slumbrous, reigns.
Only there’s a drowsy humming
From yon warm lagoon slow coming;
Tis the dragon-hornet—see!
All bedaubed resplendently,
Yellow on a tawny ground—
Each rich spot nor square nor round,
Rudely heart-shaped, as it were
The blurred and hasty impress there
Of a vermeil-crusted seal
Dusted o’er with golden meal.
Only there’s a droning where
Yon bright beetle shines in air,
Tracks it in its gleaming flight
With a slanting beam of light,
Rising in the sunshine higher,
Till its shards flame out like fire.
Every other thing is still,
Save the ever-wakeful rill,
Whose cool murmur only throws
Cooler comfort round repose;
Or some ripple on the sea
Of leafy boughs, where, lazily,
Tired summer, in her bower
Turning with the noontide hour,
Heaves a slumbrous breath ere she
Once niore slumbers peacefully.
O ’tis easeful here to lie
Hidden from noon’s scorching eye,
In this grassy cool recess
Musing thus of quietness.
Harpur, and Kendall too, for that
matter, would have plumped on the other
hand for one of the songs from “The
Tower of the Dream,” the least known
of Harpur’s works, and generally dis-
missed as a failure, though Kendall
thought it a masterpiece. It belongs to
the visionary works and is a sonorous
statement of a dream experience, probably
rationalised to some extent by Harpur
in the writing. The two songs are
haunted by the cadences of Milton’s
“Hymn on Christ’s Nativity” and
Shelley’s “Prometheus” hymns. The
dream tells of the poet’s love and court-
ship of a beautiful woman who is
dominated in some unexplained fashion
by a “figure” that is now conceived as a
man and now as a devil. The woman
probably symbolises life in its various
aspects, including artistic creation, the
mysterious “figure” is probably death or
destiny, or the principle of evil, perhaps,
or all three. The “figure” conquers, in
any case. One of the songs laments the
fact. It can be read, surely, as Harpur’s
lament for his own poetry, and maybe
for all poetry:
In vain were our spells wrought—
In vain was She well taught
How that dread Watcher’s eyes drowsy to
keep,
In vain was the dragon steed
There at the hour of need,
Gat with his double-freight blissward to
sweep.
Lost-—lost —lost-lost!
In vain were our spells of infinite cost!
Lost —lost.—lost —lost —
Yon Gulf by a mortal may be crossed
never I
Never- —ah never!
The doom holds for ever!
And' to aid her aught more
Is out of sphere and transcendeth our lore.
Lost—lost —lost —lost!
Come away —come away.
Since only in soul yon vague Gulf can be
crost.
Our Beautiful Mistress her failure must
weep- ' -
Weep — weep —weep —weep!
Away — come away!
For see. wide uprolling, the white front of
day!
Away to the mystic mid-regions of Sleep—
Of the Beautiful Spirit of Sleep!
Lost-- lost— lost —lost!
Pastiche, if you will. But the cadences
are lovely. They linger in the mind
fortified by the very vagueness of their
meaning. And if you are reminded of
Milton, and Shelley, you might equally
be reminded of the lyrics of Charles
Kingsley ; and Harpur antedates Kingsley
by about twenty years. In any case no
proper study of Harpur’s mind can be
written without taking “The Tower of the
Dream” into consideration. It is his
spiritual autobiography.
With Harpur’s narrative poems we are
in a more normal world, though it is
here we find the most remarkable
instances of his random vision. “The
Creek of the Four Graves” is the best
known of these works. It tells how a
settler and four convict servants explore
for a new selection and are set upon by
blacks and the four servants slaughtered.
The settler lives to tell the tale. And it
is well told. Not until Thomas Heney
writes his Whitmanesque “The Hut on
the Flat,” some thirty years later, will a
comparable piece of dramatic narration
be written in Australia. Take the passage
that tells of the settler’s pursuit by the
blacks:
Fast fled he, but as fast
His deadly foes went thronging on his track.
Fast! for in full pursuit behind him yelled
Men whose wild speech no word for mercy
hath! , „
And as he fled the forest beasts as wefl
In general terror through the brakes ahead
Crashed scattering, or with maddening speed
athwart _ ... „„
His course came frequent. On, still on,
FHeS fbr dear life, and still behind him hears
Nearer and nearer, the light rapid dig
Of many feet ... ,
He crosses a creek and hides m a
hollow tree, thus throwing his pursuers
off his track; and after a wide detour
gains safety. Later he is able to return
{Continued on inside back cover.)


TRUTH IN .ADV. l .RT($l('G'
wm.
fea:
Photo at left. 9 carat stone set Pendant and Earrings to match in presentation case. £5/16/-.
A. —Solid 18 carat white or yellow gold stone set Eternity Rings, at £6/10/-.
B. —Gent’s stainless steel Commander link Watch Band. Price, 14/-.
C. —Gent’s 9 carat gold, silver lined link Watch Band. Price, only 41/6.
D. —Gent’s 9 carat gold, silver lined link Watch Band. Price, 35/-
E. —Gent’s nickel chrome expanding link Watch Band. 21/-.
m
Hi
m
■
I ;V- : ”
m
■
mm
:
I
\
mm
■
A
ill
m
:C . :
V ■■-;■>■' 4
aar
i
i m
iH
-■" *I mmm
K
~' Ai
:
VA
5B
B
t V*
ii
1
n
Xtf’
'■mm
S 3
■: £
v ■
B
D
1
E SUGGEST EYE-CATCHING ACCESSORIES
F. —Sterling silver Key Chain with metal fittings. Price, 35/-.
G. Gold filled Snake Key Chain. Price, 35/-.
H. —Children’s 9 carat silver lined Gold Bangles. In all sizes, priced from 26/6 to 30/
I. —Gold filled Arm Bands, price, 27/6. Available in chrome, price, 8/11.
J. —Solid 9 carat stone set Cross on 9 carat silver lined chain. Priced at 40/-.
K. —9 carat silver lined small stone set Heart Pendant holds photo. Price, 26 /6.
L. —9 carat silver lined Locket and Chain holds photo Priced at 22/6.
* r" >
a
mi
psi
t#
Iwiiiii
M. —Double Heart and Arrow Locket
Brooch. 9 carat silver lined with
key and safety chain. Price, 36/-.
N. —Children’s 9ct. silver lined Curb
Bangles. In all sizes, from 19/-, 21/-
22/6.
O. —Solid 9ct. gold Nail and Horse
Shoe stone set Tie Pin. Price, 27/6.
P. —Ladies’ 9 carat silver lined Curb
Bracelet, priced at 36/6.
■sal-;
r .
V
«3i
r- •
~<r i
-i
essii
«s»
< v>
'fs
T
0
t:/
.S'
3
*
0
0
■*»
Q. —Ladies’ 9 carat silver lined Link Watch Band. Priced at 34/-.
R. —Ladies’ Black Cordette Commander Band with stainless steel links. Priced at 9/6.
S. —Ladies’ 9 carat silver lined Commander Watch Band. Priced at 31/-.
T. —Ladies’ stainless steel Commander Link Watch Band. Price, 14/-.
U. —British made chrome Cigarette Case, priced at 16/6.
V. —9 carat silver lined Sleeve Links, priced at only 30/-.
W. —British made gold filled Cigarette Case, priced at £2/12/6.
X. —Solid 9 carat gold back and front Collar Studs. 31/- pair.
w
a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ JEWELLERY DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. PHONE M 2401; BOX 2712C, G.P.O., SYDNEY


PRODUCTS or THE a
' *U‘‘. . \>f
CROUP
A
Humber
Hillman
9T
Sunbeam-Talbot
fis
Coouner
O
Karrier
Vulcan
Tilling-Stevens
NAMES
HUMBER
HILLMAN
SUNBEAM-TALBOT
CONNER
KARRIER
VULCAN
TILLING-STEVENS
MOTES CROUP
m
:<$
*»m e s i*vice
Under these world-famous names, the Rootes
Group produces no fewer than 29 separate
and distinct models a car, truck or bus to
suit every conceivable transport need.
Wherever the red, blue and gold Bootes
Group sign is displayed owners of Rootes
Group vehicles all over Australia find com-
petent courteous service.
ROOTES GROUP. FISHERMEN’S BEND, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA AND OF
ENGLAND


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3761
Wednesday, March 1952
“LOOK, PHARAOH! I FOUND HIM IN THE BULRUSHES!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Orippmqt^ila et A^ ielhourne -
Oueensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
EARNING A LIVING.
The commentary on Australian economic
conditions which Treasurer Fadden
might have met in London at the Finance
Ministers’ Conference, where the decision
was made that Australia, like every other
member of the British Commonwealth,
“must live within its income” —translated
into more detailed language by the week-
end’s import cuts —c oul d, not un-
warrantably, be freely interpreted thus:
Your coal-producing- capacity vastly ex-
ceeds actual production. You have rich
iron deposits such as any nation might
envy on two sides of your continent. Your
steel production has been and could con-
tinue to be the cheapest in the world. As
a matter of resources of raw material you
could even export steel.
Your country is capable, with its vast
spaces for stock-raising and agriculture, of
tremendous development as a food-pro-
ducer. That has for half a century been
Australia’s own line in advertising her ad-
vantages for the immigrant settler.
Your Governments have admitted a great
unbalance in your economy in the develop-
ment of city populations and of less essen-
tial manufacturing industries.
During the past 18 months or so you
have had functioning a National Security
Resources Board which was appointed to
Investigate and sort-out the flaws in this
economic set-up and is reported to have
recommended a new orientation of in-
dustrial effort by giving first priority to
primary industries—in which xnodernly
steel might be added to farming and coal-
mining.
Your Government has been for some
years greatly increasing the intake of Euro-
pean settlers of working age. Your Parlia-
ment has accepted the policy that “Aus-
tralia must populate or perish”—which
surely means populate for speeding up de-
velopment and national strength.
What is it that prevents your forging
ahead ?
To which Treasurer Fadden presum-
ably would have replied that develop-
ment was held up for want of capital
investment, that, new plant was urgently
needed in all basic industries, for coal-
mining, also for rehabilitation of railways
and improvement of ports; that there
just is not the foundation, without exten-
sive imports, for programmes which
include modernisation of equipment,
rearmament for defence and reorientation
of industry into the countryside, especially
with the electoral demand for the arrest
of greatly-inflated prices, the effect of
years of “living on tick.”
But is is certain that he did not say
that, while the most important factor in
the country’s problem is time, the out-
standing feature in the local attitude to
that problem is an appalling waste of
time, by individual and by Governments
as reflecting the indifference of the elec-
torate. The value of time wasted annually
in Australia through go-slow and
absenteeism in industry, political conflicts
between Federal and State Governments,
popular devotion to sport and gambling,
decrepit Government transport and
harbor services, widespread interference
with commercial enterprise by “control”
boards—the money value of this waste of
time and energy would service the biggest
investment loan Australians have ever
imagined, and if it were possible so to
convert this value there would be work
here for many millions more people and
for generations to come.
How do we treat industrial plant in
this country? If the life of a piece of
machinery is 10-15 years, the period dur-
ing which it is calculated to pay for its
place in an industry, for what portion of
that time (allowing for necessary main-
tenance pauses) is it actually used in
Australia as compared with European or
American employment? How much of
its useful life is cut short by reduced
hours and working tempo, by strikes and
“black” bans? Are not these questions
to be taken into account by an interna-
tional monetary authority requiring to be
satisfied with the return of those dollar
investments for which every country is
competing? If the object of the London
financial conference had to be expressed
in one sentence, it would be the elimina-
tion of economic waste as a condition
of survival.
Take the question of taxation allow-
ances for depreciation on plant. There
is a rising volume of protest against a
depreciation-rate based on pre-inflation
years which cannot provide for replace-
ment at modern prices, and a demand
that, to meet the additional depreciation-
reserve required, a percentage of working
profit should be allowed tax-free. In
this inclement economic weather
Ministers and Parliament, having legis-
lated for certain tax-exemption for them-
selves, may expect less exalted interests
m the community with justifiable claims
to cry out for similar lifebelts to be
thrown to them.
The Menzies Government is already
making some response in the coal
industry, which, along with the coal port
of Newcastle, is a dreadful monument
to sloth in the chief industrial State of
the Commonwealth. The accentuated
demand for extraction of pillar-coal by
modem mechanical process is at least 10
idle years old. The “urgent” recommenda-
tion to rescue the coal port of Newcastle
from really frightening decay has been
heard, and ignored, for at least 25 years.
Nearly five years ago the late Prime
Minister Chifley had blueprints for spend-
ing some £40,000,000 (the price is now
£50,000,000) on modernising underground
equipment in the mines, including coal-
cleaning and grading machinery. The
capital expenditure is beyond the mine-
owners’ financing, having no attractions
for public investors, for the miners have
rejected the new machinery in the first
place, and they have put a “darg” on
it, in mockery of it as a utility, where
it is introduced. So the Commonwealth
Government, through the Coal Board,
steps in, after four years of “planning.”
It now offers to guarantee to mine-
owners 6s. a ton profit, or 25 per cent, net
on capital—apparently much the same
thing financially—from which the com-
panies would be expected to amortise
capital debt on new plant. With their
experience of the unions’ sabotage of
plant-potential, it is little wonder that
the companies are not immediately
attracted.
Even with the grant of dollar loans
for such purposes,, how, in the ruling
circumstances, does Australia henceforth
“live within her income,” providing for
her own needs and necessary exports?
Oil-fuel, which must be imported, is
increasingly displacing coal in railway
engines, ships’ engines and factory plant.
National policy in this matter seems to
be as chaotic as everything else.
Moreover, if the miners’ obstruction
of mechanisation schemes were
abandoned and coal production were
boosted to a flourishing industry again,
the N.S.W. Government railways could
not transport it. Already dumps of coal
are accumulating at pitheads. The
Newcastle-Sydney railtracks were never
meant to carry the coal for Sydney which
used to go by sea, and the railway
service, smitten with the blight of go-
slow no less than every other State “busi-
ness” undertaking, and itself financially
derelict and starved of modern rolling-
stock, is laboring under this burden like
a waterlogged hulk in a storm. How
does Australia pay its way under the
London decisions if it can’t mine enough
coal, can’t shift even what coal is mined,
and if it endures these conditions for
political reasons? What other reasons
are there?
As for inflation—the truth is that infla-
tion flourishes in this country because it
is becoming an industrial vested-interest,
through which the wage system, insuf-
ficient export production, reduced
working-week and the prospect of replac-
ing industrial plant are all interpreted.
And now, according to the daily Press,
the latest “fear” is that food production
can be boosted only by allowing food-
costs to rise, if they must, in finding their
natural price-level, and abandoning Gov-
ernment controls, and, if necessary, also
the C-index as a Wage-regulator. If
these considerations be deterrents to
action, then a day of retribution cannot
be far off.
The Fading Mirage.
The temporarily successful operation by
which the French and Vietnam forces
saved Hanoi in Indo-China during the
week is a new reminder of the eggshell-
thinness of the defences of South-east
Asia. While Malaya has been engaged
only in guerrilla warfare, the Indo-
China affair ranks with the Korean war
as a substantial operation. It has been
going on for six years. It has cost the
French and their local supporters some-
thing like 50,000 casualties. It is absorb-
ing the attention of a third of the French
Metropolitan Army. In money it has
eaten up an astronomical sum. And yet
the French are facing a bigger force than
ever before, one probably close to 200,000-
strong, well armed with Chinese and
Russian weapons. The threat is not only
to Indo-China but to the great granary
of Cambodia, Thailand and Burma. A
break-through would mean, if not
immediately at least within a very short
time, an extension of the war from the
north to Malaya and the China Seas,
On the Chinese Government’s official
map the sea right down to the coast of
Luzon in the Philippines and within
sight of the Borneo coast at the Miri oil-
fields is enclosed as being part of Com-
munist China. In other words, the
Communists already claim authority over
virtually the whole of the South China
Sea down nearly to the latitude of Singa-
pore, and if they were to overrun Indo-
China and were given the same air-
support as is being given by Moscow to
the Chinese armies in North Korea they
would have the means to enforce it unless
the United States were to dispute the
matter from Clark Field in the Philippines
and the British from Malaya.
Once in these regions, too, the way
would be open for coastwise infiltration
of the Malay Peninsula, and for a filter-
ing-down by sampan and small ships in
teeming numbers to Indonesia, whose
unstable Government would blow away
before the first puff of the Red north wind,
or else, under pressure from its Communist
and Socialist trade-union organisations,
hold out a welcoming hand in return for
a promise of practical Russian and
Chinese support to secure western New
Guinea and put this country in its place.
After that it would be our turn next.
The Communists, lacking large quantites
of shipping, would have small chance of
an invasion of Australia on a requisite
scale, but they would have every chance
in an infiltration into New Guinea.
Equally, they would be in a dominating
position as regards our trade-routes.
None of these unpleasant chances are
new to those in authority. In them lies
the reason why the Australian Govern-
ment, regardless of what the effort does
to its popularity at the moment, is bent
on bringing all three defence services up
to a strength unprecedented out of war-
time. It can be taken for granted that
with an election not much more than a
year off Mr. Menzies and his colleagues
are not anxious to place any more
burdens than necessary on taxpayers’
shoulders. Neither are they, in view of
the importance of manpower in solving
the problems of inflation and the cost of
living, anxious to put 124,000 men into
training for the Army at maximum
strength, and nearly 70,000, who might
be usefully applied to overcome shortages
on the land and in industry, into the other
services. They are not, either, co-opting
works which might be turning out con-
sumer and export goods to war-produc-
tion merely for the sake of being perverse.
Even Dr. Evatt’s say-so and Mr. Eddie
Ward’s hair-tearing frenzy would scarcely
convince even an inmate of Callan Park
that any Administration would plunge
into the enormous defence programme,
to cost nearly £1,000,000,000 inside three
years, at the expense of its own large
programme for the provision of hydro-
electric power and other features of
national development, except under the
spur of urgent necessity.
It is natural that the Opposition should
fight tooth-and-claw against any proposal
put forward by the Government, because
it is that kind of Opposition. Its outside
supreme A.L.P. boss was trained in the
Communist-party school, which teaches
that the vital preliminary to reform is the
utter destruction of opponents, and even
of the State as a measure of victory in
the “class-war”—the be-all and end-all of
both Communist and Australian “Labor”
policy. And most of the present party
subscribe to the dictum that no Govern-
ment save a “Labor” Government should
be allowed to govern if they can help it,
even if it should be returned to power
with a 99 per cent, vote in its favor.
That some Government members also
live in a world of unreality, and fail to
face the facts, was shown by the threat
last week of Messrs. Falkinder, an under-
secretary, and McColm, a young member
from Queensland who has assumed the
air of an elder statesman ever since he
was elected, to resign unless more money
is immediately spent on war-service
homes.
The community is naturally eager to
see as many war-service homes built as
necessary, but the present is scarcely the
time to contest the matter, especially in
the blustering manner in which it has
been raised, on the very day on which the
Government let it be known that it
felt bound to send an R.A.A.F. wing of
two squadrons and an organising ground
detachment of troops to the Middle East,
thus adding considerably to its existing
commitments abroad, in Korea and
Malaya.
There is scarcely ground for complaint
in any case against an Administration
which in two years and seven months of
office has built 35,000 of the 85,000
service homes which have been con-
structed in 32 years for the soldiers of
two great wars, which has invested
£41,000,000 in two years in such build-
ing, and which doubled the record
previous annual allocation for homes in
its first year of office, has provided
£27,000,000 for the coming year, or more
than three times the amount provided in
any year before it took office.
Perhaps young members have been
deluded by the princely additions to their
own salaries into the belief that money
grows on trees. In this mistake they
seem to be suppprted by almost the whole
country and much of the daily Press,
which, while demanding security, raises
an outcry when asked to forgo luxuries
to pay for it. But the fact remains that
this country is emerging from a jag for
which it will pay dearly if it does not
sober-up very quickly. With France
supporting 200,000 men in the field, with
Britain uncomplainingly carrying out a
£A7,000,000,000 defence plan, defending
no less than 19 centres in the world, apart
from the high seas and the air, mostly
with conscripts, having had compulsory
and universal military service since 1939,
with the United States and Canada geared
to war-level, with the Middle East already
fitfully illuminated by war, Australia is
still concerned with things which no
other country can afford and which
elsewhere have been pushed into the
background to await more propitious
times.
Possibly the Government itself is a
little to blame for the atmosphere. It has
lost some of its grip since it took office
in the present Parliament only 10 months
ago through lack of aggressive leadership
—partly the result of its coalition nature.
But the main fault lies in the fact that
during nine years of “Labor” rule elec-
tors were taught that no political bribe
was beyond attainment even if it were
due to be paid for in disaster when the
overseas prices of Australian export pro-
ducts should fall to something near
normal and rational levels. Government
members might usefully employ a good
deal of their two-months’ vacation before
the House meets in May in educating
their electors in world realities and trying
to persuade a daydreaming public to face
facts.
"Eat 'Em Alive, Tigers!"
Some thinkers believe that Australia will
never attain greatness until, like every
great nation in the world, it has had a
dashed good war or revolution or similar
riotous behavior on the grand scale within
its own boundaries. The theory is that the
survivors, having cemented their dis-
agreement in blood, will then get to-
gether, realise their foolishness and
emerge one and indivisible.
This theory went very close to being
tested lately when Melbourne and
Adelaide began hurling long-distance in-
sults at each other over a tiger. Not the
Tantanoola one, which is definitely and
irrevocably the property of the Crow-
eaters, but a Richmond Tiger. These
Richmond Tigers emerge every winter in
Melbourne and boot footballs about in
rivalry with hawks, magpies, bulldogs,
demons and other flora and fauna from
Melbourne suburbs, what time their fol-
lowers boot rival followers, umpires, and
other things. Much the same sort of
performance goes on in every city, town,
hamlet and wherever two men and a dog
can be found south of a line from Cape
Howe to Albury, Leeton, Broken Hill,
Victoria River Downs and Wyndham,
with odd outbursts in Canberra, Sydney,
Newcastle and Brisbane.
The Tiger in question, named Deane,
emigrated from Richmond to South
Adelaide. Then he wanted to emigrate
back again. Adelaide was prepared to
accept as ransom or hostage or some-
thing one Davies, from Geelong. Geelong
refused to turn Davies loose, whereupon
Deane was held in S.A, Followed a
frightful uproar from various parties.
While the S.A.-Vic. border was being
strengthened, sundry other gifted hooters
of footballs expressed desires to go and
teach the game to benighted rural
dwellers. They were instantly suppressed
by their possessors. The Aussie-Rulers
have a system similar to the State trans-
port laws. Just as you can’t drive a truck
without a State permit, so you can’t play
football without a clearance.
In the midst of all this Sydney was
coldly informed that in June the Rich-
mond Tigers and Collingwood Magpies
would play there, while Essendon and
Geelong meet in Brisbane, and some
others in Hobart, Canberra and Albury.
The Australian National Football Council
will spend about £6OOO on this, and
“special planes will fly from and to Mel-
bourne with supporters of the teams.”
This is called “popularising the code. ’
What the heads of Rugby call it is
another matter. They shouldn’t worry,
however, because so long as Melbourne
and Adelaide continue their system of
refusing to let good players go and teach
in other places, and continue to bribe
good players from other places to go
and play in Melbourne and Adelaide, the
logical result will be a concentration of
all the good players in those cities.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Cut in Imports.
The continued shrinkage in Australia’s
London funds since June, 1951, has been
a matter for particular concern over the
past three months. Imports have been
flooding into Australia at an unprece-
dented rate, and the congestion at ports
and in bonds and stores has been alarm-
ing, especially as there has been a
slump in buying on the part of the con-
suming public. For a while the Federal
Government gambled on the position
correcting itself under influence of
economic conditions within the Common-
wealth. The rot, instead, having con-
tinued, a system of import-licensing has
been brought in on the eve of Britain’s
Budget being introduced, with cuts of
from 40 p.c. to 80 p.c. in some types
of sterling-area goods.
It is quite likely that the British
Government was a party to the latest
move. It may prefer to see more of its
manufacturing energies devoted to
defence and internal industrial rehabilita-
tion than to the turning-out of goods for
export to the sterling area. This parti-
cularly at a time when, trade being
looked upon more in the light of barter
than hitherto, the supply of food available
from the sterling area is dwindling and
large British exports to Australia are no
longer needed to pay for it. (In the six
months to December 31 last Britain sold
to Australia £ 143-million-worth more
than she bought from us. Even in the
corresponding period of the previous
year, when wool prices were so high,
Britain still sold us more than she bought.)
If Australia had been producing
much more in the way of essential
raw materials, such as food and
minerals, no import-controls such as are
now in force would have been necessary.
We would have been able to stand on our
own feet. But many of the voices now
raised in protest against the licensing of
imports have in no way helped to achieve
greater productivity per hour of working
time. The “Labor” party has shuddered
every time increased productivity has been
mentioned; one Premier was severely
censured by the party for advocating
it. And the metropolitan daily Press, for
the most part, has done nothing to help
in the decentralisation of industry that is
so necessary for a greater rural effort.
It has pandered to the idle and the
gambling-mad; but, like the “Sydney
Morning Herald,” is not above offering
the Government, in times of crisis, a bit
of advice such as “a comprehensive
economic programme must be mapped
out.”
Dr. Evatt in Snakeland.
Any believer in the transmigration of
souls, after reading Dr. Evatt’s Saturday-
evening essay on the Menzies’ Govern-
ment’s import-control plan, will have no
difficulty in prophesying the form in
which he will appear in his next life. He
will undoubtedly be a carpet-snake. For
sinuosity no politician of recent times
has equalled him.
As leader of a party which continued
import-control after the war for exactly
the same reasons as the Menzies Gov-
ernment is introducing it now tempor-
arily, he believes that the Government
measures are “stringent and savage.” As
head of the political concern which has
been weeping like the Barron Falls during
the past few weeks because of the
depressed state of the Australian textile
industry he makes the cry that was heard
by the Waters of Babylon sound like an
infant’s whinge when he talks of the re-
striction on the import of textiles.
Never noted for consulting with com-
mercial interests, he is amazed that the
Government should have taken its
“panic” step “without the slightest prior
consultation with the practical leaders in
industry, labor, commerce or finance.”
The trading-banks, which had a fine
sample of the eagerness of the Chifley-
Evatt Government’s to consult in
1947, and Mr. Arthur Calwell, the
Doctor’s raucous deputy, who has always
maintained that capitalism hasn’t any
right to continue to exist, much less to be
consulted, should each get a good laugh
out of that one.
Next, Dr. Evatt lectures the Govern-
ment on its preoccupation with imports,
and points out sternly that “the
export side of the account is equally
important,” but that “record taxation and
other restrictions indicate that there is no
positive plan of incentives for encourag-
ing Australian exports.”
Coming from the leader of a party
which imposed taxation much higher
than any imposed by the Menzies Gov-
ernment, and which has gone far to-
wards destroying the export industries by
its Socialist methods and support of
loaf and gambling as the main
objectives of human life, this sally should
take a prize in any open competition for
the best exhibition of slithering tortuosity,
blind-worms and anacondas not barred.
A Barbarous Ban.
In 1947-48, the last twelvemonth for
which the official year-books give details
(and they differ), upwards of 31,000
persons were under treatment in Aus-
tralian mental hospitals, the largest
number (naturally) and the largest pro-
portion per 1000 of population being in
N. S. Wales.
On June 30, 1948, the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Statistician found that certified
lunatics in State institutions and “a
licensed house” numbered 10,730, 5350
males and 5380 females, but in effect
admitted that this total was misleading.
For “relatives have the right of custody
of insane persons if they can give a satis-
factory assurance that proper care will
be taken of them” ; and there is nothing
to show that these unfortunates, or indeed
others who have been in institutions for
years, are or have to be certified. Indeed,
it is as admitted that “voluntary” inmates
of mental hospitals and licensed houses
can virtually come and go as they please ;
they “may not be detained for more than
seven days after written notice of inten-
tion or desire to leave,” And “harmless
patients may be released on leave, or they
may be discharged to relatives or
friends.” On June 30, 1948, 473 men
and 633 women were listed as “on
leave,” making the lunatics enumerated,
rightly or wrongly, 11,836 and the pro-
portion per 1000 of population 3.85.
Nearly all the insane persons under
detention or “on leave” —the number
grows every year—are adults and the
great majority are married. But no
matter how long-standing and hopeless
the disease is, their partners cannot be
liberated from them by law. These
unhappy creatures are reduced to form-
ing illicit connections or continuing to
live broken lives; and the life of a
friendless and sensitive soul in this situa-
tion can be a living hell.
The aggrieved party to a union in
which both are sane can get a divorce
on grounds other than adultery; nor is
he or she obliged to give the offender
another chance. It is sufficient to prove
“repeated assaults and cruel beatings”
within a year before the petition is
lodged, or habitual drunkenness for three
years coupled with neglect or cruelty,
or imprisonment for three years if the
sentence is stiffer, or even desertion for
three years if the husband is at fault. But
insanity, incurable though it be and
caused or accelerated by alcohol though
it may have been, is no ground for
divorce in the Mother State.
In this matter N. S. Wales lags behind
each and all its partners. Its ban on
divorce for lunacy is not only cruel and
reactionary, but contrary to sound public
policy. It is retained for no other reason
than that altering it would offend at least
one church. “Labor” shrinks from doing
that, nor are the Liberals keen on facing
up to clerical displeasure.
McGirr on Gas.
Straight warning from the chairman of
Sydney’s biggest gas company —fifth-
largest undertaking of its kind in the
Empire—of a gas-famine in the near
future unless it can get relief from the
loutish political oppression of the Mc-
Girr Government must not go unheeded.
He was not asking for an immediate
rise in price, but for an escalator arrange-
ment to avert costly political delays in
permitting price-rises.
The McGirrs’ line of action in aid of
the socialisation policy of the Federal
“Labor” party (and of its State party too,
of course) is to repel or delay applica-
tion (under the law) for such adjust-
ments. It is continued in the
face of investigations and audits
which clearly show the industry as un-
able to carry on without a fair return for
a service loaded with constantly-rising
charges of coal, transport and labor. It
is continued in order to beat down the
value of shareholders’ investments in the
undertaking, whose existence at all is re-
sented by the Socialists.
The warning was issued because the com-
pany’s directors, obliged to meet increas-
ing spread of the service, must raise the
necessary extra capital on debentures,
since there is no inducement to share-
holders, deprived for another year of a
minimum dividend supposed to be
guaranteed by law, to subscribe the
amount of new money required.
A Premier who has “governed” every
State-managed public utility into bank-
ruptcy has the impudence to reply that if
the gas company is in trouble it should
“examine its own management.” This
from the head of a Government whose
transport services are losing some ten
millions a year in what he calls “pros-
perity” under his regime adds insult to
mendacity, for a series of Government
investigations and inquiries has shown
that the company’s management is un-
impeachable and its requests for “a fair
go” clearly established.
The McGirr attitude to the gas com-
pany incidentally comes oddly from a
Government which allows Metropolitan
Portland Cement, Ltd. (which at
December 31, 1950, owed the McGirr
Government’s Rural Bank £1,302,745), to
charge £l2 13s. 3d. a ton for bulk cement
in Sydney against £8 Bs. allowed to be
charged by its opposition companies.
Mr. McGirr’s comment that the price of
the A.G.L. Co.’s gas “has been increased
by 85 per cent, in the past two years”
suggests that he holds any further rise to
be unwarrantable. In point of fact gas-
price per 1000 cubic feet to the consumer
rose by only 30 per cent, from 1939 to
February, 1950, while cost of coal rose
164 per cent, and of wages 62 per cent.
During the past two years the tram-fare
under McGirr from the Quay to Central
railway-station has risen by 200 per cent.,
and his rail-freight charges from 166 to
200 per cent. This is the man who re-
pulses a public utility on which tens of
thousands of homes and many industries
depend for a comparable rise in cost of
its service which he states at 85 per cent.
The McGirrs want to see the gas com-
pany driven into penury, like the ferries,
and then nationalise it at a derisory cost
in compensation to shareholders. The
“Labor”-ruled McDonald Government
did that to the Melbourne gas company,
and as soon as private enterprise was dis-
placed the nationalised show was given
the right to fix its own gas-prices, and
they shot up like every other State-run
service.
Two-to-one Against Reds.
With the announcement of the results of
the ballot for three national officials of
the Federated Ironworkers’ Association
the four-years fight to free the union from
Red control has ended in complete vic-
tory for industrial-grouper Short.
When the Arbitration Court decided
last year that the 1949 election of officers,
which had resulted in Communists and
left-wingers retaining the top positions on
the executive, had been rigged, it declared
Short to be the rightful secretary of the
union and ordered fresh elections for the
positions of assistant national secretary
and two national vice-presidents—the
ballot to be conducted by the Common-
wealth Electoral Officer. McPhillips and
co., who had been running the union in
the interests of Moscow in accordance
with the pattern set by “Balance-sheet”
Thornton before the Kremlin promoted
him to a bigger job in Peking, have tried
every shift they could think of to hang
on to office, including frequent recourse
to the court they profess to despise and
whose authority they have tried to under-
mine ; but it seems as if their race is run.
In the court-conducted poll Hurrell, the
A.L.P. candidate for the job of assistant
national secretary, defeated McPhillips by
12,455 votes to 6253, and his colleagues
Ahearn and Cameron won the vice-
presidential posts by similar majorities.
Before the poll Short’s supporters were
in a majority of one on the national con-
ference of the union; they now com-
mand 13 votes to 9, and should be in a
very happy position when conference
meets next week to elect a new National
Council.
The attitude of the Communist party
towards the ballot is not difficult to
anticipate ; the party’s official paper, even
before the result was announced, was ask-
ing whether there was “something
crooked” about the poll, basing its
question on a report that a man in New-
castle had received two ballot-papers.
Under the old regime the Ironworkers’
Building in George-street, Sydney, was
after the sale of Marx House, almost a
party headquarters, and it will be hard to
replace. Moreover, the secret-ballot idea
is catching, and already industrial-
groupers in two other Red unions
Clerks and Victorian A.R.U. —are seek-
ing an opportunity to follow the Iron-
workers’ lead.
Official “Labor” should be highly grati-
fied at the defeat of the Comrades, and
the general secretary of the party, E. G.
Wright, says that this is so and that he
now expects the union to reaffiliate with
the A.L.P. He also claims that the vot-
ing proves that
given a fair go in the previous elections,
Labor-party supporters would probably have
been in control of the union, thus obviat-
ing the necessity of the ballot being held.
That last bit is rather choice. “Labor”
opposed tooth and nail the Menzies
amendments to the Arbitration Act which
made it possible for the ballot to be held.
If “Labor” had had its way the Reds
would still be in control of the union.
Ringbarking Arbitration.
Because Conciliation Commissioner
Galvin refused to revise awards to
increase marginal rates of pay over the
basic wage in proportion to the rise in
the C-index —which would mean allow-
ing for cost-of-living rises twice in all
wages paid —certain Communist-bossed
unions started strikes against the commis-
sioner’s award, particularly the metal-
trades union and the A.E.U.
The A.C.T.U. intervened to assert its
authority over all such disputes. The
line of action was not very clear because
(1) unions were divided on a proposal to
bypass arbitration and go for collective
bargaining, (2) the time is not exactly pro-
pitious for strikes, and (3) the A.C.T.U.
has been trying to assume an air of respec-
tability against Communism. However,
the Commos’ scheme for individual
bargaining with employers in order to
enforce payment of union claims won the
day. The A.C.T.U., ignoring the origin
of the plan, pretended that it was of its
own invention, and expects (it says) as a
result —and if the unions act through an
A.C.T.U. disputes committee in case of
an employer’s refusal —that it will then
be able to approach the Conciliation
Commissioner again and tell him the
increases he refused are an accomplished
fact.
The commissioner had already slated
metal-trades employers for paying exces-
sive margins under this form of union
blackmail. If the employers fall for the
new A.C.T.U. policy they will be con-
doning an abuse of the arbitration system
which is nonetheless outrageous for all
the A.C.T.U.’s pretence of calling declared
rebels to heel. The A.C.T.U. proposes
first to break the rule of the court by
going behind it, and then, having black-
mailed individual employers into becom-
ing accessories to this offence, return to
the court —that is, the Conciliation
Commissioner —and ask that the fili-
buster, having succeeded, shall be ap-
proved officially. Not only the em-
ployers are to be thus forced but the
court also.
A couple of days after the A.C.T.U.
decision another commissioner, Mr.
Findlay, granted certain increased mar-
gins to certain Government employees in
Canberra who belong to the same
unions. Outside Canberra a Sydney firm,
Metters, has already announced its signa-
ture of an agreement to pay an extra
week’s bonus salary to its employees
every six months, not for higher pro-
duction, but providing they “keep in-
dustrial peace.” The published comment
from Sydney Trades Hall —that former
haunt of Jock Garden —that this method
of “insurance against strikes” is a
novelty should raise some smiles here
and there.
If employers consent individually to
pay wages in excess of awards, firstly in
competition for labor in supply regulated
under Communist policy, and again as
“insurance against strikes,” and if con-
ciliation commissioners cannot reconcile
their awards on the same set of claims,
arbitration looks like being, as Arthur
Fadden used to say, thoroughly ring-
barked.
Schooners and Pensioners.
Nothing is more sickening than the
spectacle of the average “Labor” poli-
tician weeping crocodile-tears over the
plight of pensioners. As members of a
Government which for eight years
imposed penalties on thrift, sought to put
the whole community on pensions, overtly
and covertly encouraged employees to
go slow and demand more and more
wages and “amenities,” took value out
of the pound, and in other ways began
the spiral of costs which the country is
now desperately trying to check, their
concern for pensioners, measured against
their record in government, is about as
sincere as their concern for farmers.
It remained for Mr. Townley, the
Minister for Social Services, to give this
“Labor” balderdash the answer it should
have been given long ago, and an answer
which no “Labor” Minister would have
been game to give.
Reminding “Labor” that the taxpayers
were forking out £2OO million a year for
pensions and social-service benefits, Mr.
Townley added that Australians were
spending £240 million a year on liquor
and £5 million in entertainment tax. The
inference of this was that the drinkers
and sporting crowds could afford to
stand higher taxes on booze and enter-
tainment, and an inference of that sort
is enough to give a “Labor” politician
((Continued on next page.}


m
mm
ciow
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specudlyib
pieverit soiettmdts
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
sis
■I
m
riii i i fi : V> :^Wi'«i*^
the cold shivers, for to him booze and
sport are far more sacred than pensioners.
Mr. Townley remarked that in his own
little Tasmania no less than 33,0001 b. of
prime beef is fed each week to racing
greyhounds. What the “thin, thieving,
spidery” creatures get through each week
in the mainland States may be imagined.
To the “Labor” politician greyhound-
racing, as one of them defined it, is “a
good and useful sport.” Another
unashamedly averred that horse-racing
was the chief industry in his electorate.
Would “Labor” vote to make the feeding
of tons of good beef to dogs each week
illegal until such time as the national
beef shortage is overcome and pensioners
able to buy more meat? Would “Labor”
vote for a special tax of a penny a
schooner on beer to provide more
pension-money?
The old-age pensioners’ cause is not
helped by claims that “as pioneers, they
deserve more.” The majority of them
pioneered nothing, and most of the real
pioneers still living saw to it by their
own industry that they are independent
of public charity. That type of pioneer
is vilified by “Labor” as an “exploiter”
or “land-grabber” and in N.S.W., at least,
a “Labor” Government is busily robbing
them and their descendants of the lands
they pioneered.
This is not to say that people who, by
the infirmities of age or sickness or
widowhood, are unable to earn sufficient
to keep them in reasonable comfort
should not receive adequate pensions.
They are the responsibility of the more
fortunate members of the community,
who are generally prepared to accept it.
But “Labor’s” ■ ideas of responsibility
are as woolly as its ideas on defence and
foreign affairs. In effect, it persists in
talking as though Governments can wave
magic wands and produce money out of
thin air, and it encourages its followers
to believe that with the supply of easy
money drying up they can still guzzle
booze to their hearts’ content, feed
thousands of greyhounds on prime cuts
of beef, and when they are too old or
too sick to work any more can expect
benevolent Governments to keep them.
POLITICAL POINTS
Amid the chorus of howls from those
who fear they’ll be hurt in the pocket by
the import-restrictions could be discerned
quite an anguished yelp from Bert Evatt,
who is not going to be hurt at all and
is in all probability highly delighted at
the Government’s making such an un-
popular move. The Doc. professes to
think the reasoning behind the policy
“fallacious,” because “the export side of
the account is equally important,” and
he complains that the Government has
“no positive plan of incentives for en-
couraging Australian exports.” Without
dwelling on the sorry tale of how
“Labor,” in four years of post-war mis-
management, effectively spragged our
chances of building up new export
markets, it is fair to ask Evatt how he
proposes to conjure up commodities for
export in time to have any effect on the
current problem of fast-disappearing
London balances.
It should surely be obvious to the Gov-
ernment’s critics that the immediate effect
of the import cuts, as of other recent
moves in financial policy, will be felt
more by the Government’s supporters
than by its opponents, and that this fact
would be quite well understood by those
responsible for the measures. No Gov-
ernment makes unpopular regulations just
for the pleasure of losing votes.
Sydney “Herald’s” raging economists
were let loose on the Government import
policy, just as they were on its Budget,
and terrific roaring is again being heard
from Hunter-street. But a question many
people would like answered is: Why are
they being fed so much raw meat?
Tomorrow’s meeting of the British
Labor executive will be the most
important held for years. It has
been called at the instance of
Aneurin Bevan and is another move
in his campaign for the leadership
of the party. Last week’s no-confidence
motion against the Churchill Government
was no doubt a move to placate the
Bevanities, but its actual effect was to
bring them into open revolt. The motion
took the form of an amendment express-
ing agreement with the Government’s de-
fence policy, but doubting its capacity to
carry it out. The Bevan group —57 strong
—refused to support the party’s official
attitude on defence and abstained from
voting on the amendment. At tomorrow’s
meeting “Nye” is expected to take the
line that his group is following the real
Labor line and that it is Attlee and Co.
who have broken the party policy.
Queensland Premier Gair has an-
nounced that his goal is “a bigger and
better Queensland and a happier people.”
This is the first .known indication of the
gentleman’s intention to resign.
Using the Menzies Government’s legis-
lation to provide for secret ballots at
union elections, which every “Labor”
leader opposed, A.L.P. men in the key
unions, beginning with the Federal Iron-
workers, are busy throwing Communist
rivals out of the higher command. But
there is a singular and boorish lack of
tendency to thank the Government for
the legal facilities which it provided.
“Labor” obviously regards its crusade
against the Communists merely as a
domestic faction-fight inside the World
Socialist movement in which the common
enemy, “Liberalism,” has no right to in-
terfere.
The first clutch of the St. Nicholas
chickens are coming home to roost. In
Canberra the Conciliation Commissioner
for the Capital Territory in granting in-
creased margins for metal-workers and
electricians based his decision partly on
the fact that the new salary-rates for Par-
liamentarians took into consideration “the
decreased purchasing-power of money as
compared with the standard agreed on
by the Parliament in 1947.”
Former Australian Wilfred Burchett,
now an enthusiastic reporter of the
Chinese Communist activities against
American and Australian “aggressors” in
Korea, seems to have swallowed the whole
Kremlin catechism. In his latest dispatch
to Sydney “Tribune” he makes the claim
that the U.N. planes “almost daily are
dropping insects carrying deadly bacteria
over wide areas of Korea” with the in-
tention of spreading bubonic plague.
Commenting that the plague can spread
as fast and as far as rats can travel he
says that “the American aims seem to be
to create as many plague-spots as poss-
ible.” The known difficulty of confining
any epidemic within limits should be suf-
ficient to expose the absurdity of the
charge, but the slander is not entirely
pointless. Most likely explanation is that
there is an epidemic of plague in North
Korea and the Communists are seeking
to capitalise their inability to cope with
it by trying to fasten the blame on
America.
A Melbourne writer points out that
whereas we ate 2291 b. of meat a head
a year for the three pre-war years, last
year the figure was only 2041 b. He says
the cause is the price. Maybe, but has
he forgotten the thousands of newcomers
who’ve arrived since 1940 and whose
tastes run rather to fish, macaroni,
paprika, goulash and so forth? Still, the
man can cheer himself by reflecting that
the thousands of racing greyhounds the
country supports get through a fair-sized
herd of prime bullocks every week.
Willie Gallacher, chairman of the
British Communist party, ex-member of
the House of Commons for West Fife,
who arrived on earth with Santa Claus
70 years ago, celebrated his arrival in
Australia with the observation that he
belonged to the British Labor party as
well as to the Commo outfit, and added;
Labor leaders who recommend Socialism
without adding that the only successful end
of Socialism is a state of Communism are
insincere.
Evatt and Calwell are distinctly not
amused,
N. S. Wales Bursary Endowment Board
has been investigating allegations that a
disproportionate number of secondary-
school bursaries have been awarded to de-
nominational schools and has satisfied
itself that there has been no discrimina-
tion. What is puzzling some people is not
how the children passed the bursary-
exams., but how their parents passed the
financial tests. For the primary bursaries
the permissible family income limit is
round about £5OO, which is approxi-
mately the basic wage. As it is
generally conceded that the basic-
wage-eamer docs pot exist it must
be assumed that all the bursary-
winners are either orphans or the off-
spring of age-pensioners. This may be
true, in which case the bursaries are serv-
ing a good purpose. But is the board
satisfied that it is true?
It would be interesting to note the re-
action of those Jews who’ve been demon-
strating against the presence in our
country of the German pianist Giese-
king if bands of Australians demanded
boycotts of Jewish artists and writers be-
cause of the atrocities committed by Jews
on British soldiers in Palestine. One of
them, Ben Hecht, publicly announced that
he “held a little holiday in his heart”
every time a British serviceman was mur-
dered.
Brisbane’s Lord Mayor Chandler, in
the course of a speech pointing out that
his city’s transport system could be worse,
said:
Sydney has the highest tramfares in the
world, the worst tram service in the world,
the most obsolete trams in the world, and
has bigger losses proportionately than any
other tramway system in the world.
“Sydney Morning Herald” reported the
remarks in its “Granny” column and at
least showed that Transport Minister
Sheahan read the old lady. Next
news from Brisbane was a comment
from Chandler saying he had received
an “impertinent” letter from Billy
enclosing the “Herald” cutting and
asking whether he had said what
he was said to have said. He had replied
“Yes.” Latest report on the matter is
that Sheahan has been seen standing at
Queen’s Square Loop pensively looking
at his trams.
It might do a lot of good if the visiting
investigators from the International
Monetary Fund spoke out plainly on the
relative values of dollar investment in
(say) West Germany or Japan and in
Australia. The Opposition-leader in the
Senate said in debate on the Japanese
Treaty Bill last week that “in the very
near future Japan would be a force to
be reckoned with by Australia.” Japan’s
revival as an industrial force is already
making the Australian 30-hour week —
nominally 40, but 30 hours, said one
Sydney production-manager the other
day, “is what we base our costs on
today”—look like a gesture of sheer
insanity.
Extract from Answers to Correspon-
dents in Communist “Tribune”:
Jock G.: Thanks for poems. Considering.
No, it can’t be the same Jock.
“Labor” is taking advantage of the
opportunity offered by the Lyne by-
election to attack the Government’s finan-
cial policy. Doc. Evatt fired the first
shots at Kempsey on Friday night, sup-
ported—or, at any rate, accompanied —
by Fixer Ashley and Premier McGrrirr.
The party doesn’t expect to shake the
Country-party hold on Lyne, but hopes to
lop a few thousand votes off last year’s
majority—which would be a good thing
for “Labor” morale.
The Communist Youth Carnival “fea-
tures its attractively designed badge”—
vide the “Tribune” —a “peace dove and a
boomerang.” And strangely enough it is
a fighting boomerang. A funnel-web
spider, death-adder or some other
venomous underground denizen would
have been even more appropriate as the
symbol of Australian Communism,
External Affairs Minister Casey on
Manus, then and now. In the latter years
of the war:
There were two floating docks, each
capable of taking the largest battleship or
commercial liner afloat, together with all
the necessary shore establishments five
strips capable of taking the largest bombers
in the world, together with fighter strips
barracks and other establishments to cope
with tens of thousands of troops.
Today:—
Where there was room for 10,000 men
there is only room for ten. Manus is a
sentry-box without a sentry.
In Britain, as in Australia, political
strikes are losing much of their appeal,
An example of this was given when Welsh
miners called for a ban on Saturday work
as a s, protest against proposed cuts in
social-service benefits ; Yorkshire miners
refused to join in the demonstration, their
president saying “We have decided to
give the coal industry a lead.” On the
eve of the presentation of the Budget coal
was being spoken of as the one bright
spot in Britain’s economy; production
and stocks were well up on last year, and
restrictions on sales had been lifted.
“C.S.”: I own a small motor-car. On
every gallon of petrol I use the Federal
Treasurer collects tax. Recently it
became necessary to buy two small parts
in order to keep the car running. Each
of them cost 225., plus another 2s. 9d.
sales tax. So that, in spending 445. so
that the car could continue to contribute
KHd. a gallon tax to the national eco-
nomy, I’m slugged an extra ss. 6d. I
could start a one-man revolution by re-
fusing to use the car under those con-
ditions, only I’m not sure whether that
would not be screwier than the tax
system.
With all this pother about the way the
Commonwealth is starving the States
financially it is just as well to cast an eye
over the figures now and then. These are
the amounts of loan-funds raised (or to
be raised) for the States in the last few
years:—
1946- £30,800,000
1947- 45,500,000
1948- 49,600,000
1949- 82,900,000
1950- 145,900,000
1951- 225,000,000
Funds approved for the current year were
thus more than 50 p.c, higher than for
the previous year and seven times as
great as in 1946-47.


RELICS OF THE PAST.
(jgg, PAP, WHO P(P AUU -mg WORK
60IUPIN6 THESE THIN&S f THE .-//
6UAOKF6UUOWS OR. THe CONVICTS’ f


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Banker”; They claim it happened in a
prosperous district in Victoria where a
farmer bought a property for £15,000.
When the time for settlement arrived he
called at the bank in company with his
son, bringing the amount in £lO notes
in a tin. When the notes were counted
they came to £lO more than the purchase-
price. After the farmer had recounted
the notes, still finding the £lO surplus, he
turned to his son and said: “You silly
young so-and-so, you’ve brought along
the wrong fin! ”
* * * *
“Vingter”; Latest manifestation of the
French elan was the performance of
a Gallic Rugby League man ordered off
by the ref. The naughty Gascon, on
receipt of the “outski” direction, squared
his shoulders in military fashion, strode
majestically to the centre of the field,
smartly dropped his breeks to his ankles
and bowed ceremoniously to the four
corners of the Stadium to the frenzied
plaudits of the French crowd. The
originality of the gesture deserved a better
reward than the life disqualification
which it brought. While some cynics
might contend that the shameless Gaul
was at the end of his professional career,
anyway, and chose the gesture as a
double-barrelled Parthian shot at referees
and booing crowds in general, I cannot
help thinking of possible spectacular
effects if the example spread to other
sports. It would certainly be more crowd-
pleasing than jumping on tennis-rackets
or the flaunting of flouncey fallals, and
any sport cursed with empty coffers
might well think twice before banning
what could be a trump draw-card.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: I haven’t a great deal
of time for the rather mendicant attitude
which holds we should earn our dollars
by luring in tourists from the other side
of the Pacific, but occasionally, when I
see some of the difficulties to be over-
come, I feel a twinge of sympathy for the
N. S. Wales Minister for Tourist
Activities. Take, for instance, the case
of a pleasant-voiced Canadian, retired and
spreading his accent and some of his
hard-won dollars on a trip around the
world. Booking in at a Government-
controlled and much-advertised N. S.
Wales tourist resort, he greeted the girl
at the desk with an affable “Waal, I’ve
come right round the world to see this
place and it looks O.K. Yessir; it looks
O.K. Now how about I sign your
visitors’-book?” The girl, a dark-haired,
langorous beauty, barely spared him a
cool, uninterested glance before replying
“If they don't Work, don't expect me to come in to pull you out!"
“I couldn’t care less.” He signed the
book, anyway, remarking as he replaced
the pen, “Waal, she’s a mighty fine
advertisement for some place else.”
* * * *
“Findy”: X suppose there is no reason
why a knowledge of economics and a
familiarity with literature should not go
together, but when a practitioner of one
essays to make a dull subject interesting
by drawing upon the other he should at
least get his references right. Otherwise
we must expect a repetition of what hap-
pened on a schools broadcast the other
day when an economist was speaking on
the financial crisis in France and draw-
ing therefrom lessons for Australia.
Quoting Micawber’s famous dictum:
“Annual income twenty pounds,” etc.,
he informed his secondary-school audi-
ence that if they wished to read more
about that immortal character they’d find
all about him in Pickwick Papers !
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Unlike the Kentuckian
Gilbert Hardy or Hardee (B. 5/3/’52) I
didn’t spend a year but a mere nine days
in Tatura (Vic.). All the same I could
write a thesis on the place that would
make the Kentuckian’s 60,000-worder
look tame. I arrived there one mid-
summer day intending to sell the Taturians
electric vacuum-cleaners. This coincided
with the arrival of a whisky-traveller and,
as it was in the days when the advent of
such a traveller usually meant free drinks
for all who could get near him, and I
had become rather dry through trying to
talk the unresponsive citizens into signing
my order blanks, by nightfall that
traveller and I were in pretty good con-
dition. So was a local storekeeper. All
would have been well had not the store-
keeper, thinking he was ordering a case
of whisky, signed one of my blanks, and
I, thinking he was ordering four vacuum-
cleaners, accepted a fiver deposit, giving
the receipt to the whisky-traveller. He,
catching the train to Mooroopna that
night, tried to cash the receipt at the
railway station, was challenged, in turn
challenged the station-master to combat,
and finished up in the boob, where he
alleged somebody had robbed him of a
fiver. The police then ran me in on
suspicion. Next morning, somewhat
sobered, the traveller and I called for
the storekeeper as a referee of our honest
intentions and he, also sober, promptly
repudiated the agreement to buy cleaners.
It took seven days of wrangling to clear
things up before, narrowly escaping a
charge of false pretences and forgery, I
got away—after being warned never to
show in Tatura again.
* * * *
“Soc.”: The nectarines on the Sydney
street barrow looked red enough to be
reasonably ripe, so I moved in to get
some . . , What used they do before
with apples that size?
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Cine Ma”: A Melbourne “Herald”
columnist reporting that the American
censors are objecting to the “daring”
costume worn by Britain’s Diana Dors
in the film “Lady Godiva Rides Again/’
makes the apt comment that it is less dar-
ing than the costume worn by the original
lady. He touches on an ancient problem
which has often concerned judges—twice
recently in Melbourne —that that which
can be stated verbally cannot always be
stated visually. Casanova, Boccaccio,
Rabelais, D. H, Lawrence and the Bible
can be bought in any bookshop, but if
any artist tried to describe visually some
of the things they describe verbally he
would be likely to land himself into jail.
Old Testament stories were favorite
themes with most of the Old Masters,
yet none of them, as far as I know, ever
illustrated what happened between Lot
and his daughters, though congregations
don’t turn a hair when the same story is
read out from the pulpit. The reason
seems to be that one medium is more
direct than the other. Pictures deal, or
should deal, with the sensation itself;
words are only symbols for associations,
A censor can read quite comfortably that
the virtuous Lady Godiva took her
clothes olf, but when he sees her on the
screen actually doing so he feels he’s a
Peeping Tom and gets the horrors.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Australian modernists
have tried almost every imaginable de-
vice in order to shock, surprise, charm
or otherwise warm-up their public, but
none of them thought of this one,
A Melbourne importer has received a
consignment of landscapes from U.S.
depicting pleasant rural scenes which,
when hung on the wall of the suburban
drawing-room, look like any other picture.
You have only to turn a switch, how-
ever, and a radiant heat emanates from
the painting, the secret being a hidden
electrical element.
* * * %
“Royal Edward”: Tell “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 23/1 / ’52) that Koolinda did
not break her back on a sandbank in the
creek at Port Hedland (W.A.). She is
still in commission on the n.-w. run.
Perhaps he is thinking of Minderoo,
which did run aground some years ago,
but was refloated, towed off and sold to
the Japs.
“Do you take these Women .... ?"
“Allwet”: The Newnham and
McConchie clans may be, numerically,
the strongest in Victoria at the moment,
but the Trumble family is catching up
fast. The late Hugh Trumble, although
not the founder, is probably the most
famous of his tribe. Hugh, of course,
played cricket for Australia, twice col-
lected a hat-trick in Tests against England,
and eventually became secretary of
Melbourne Cricket Club. He usually
wore a high-crowned white sombrero
which, added to his already-magnificent
height, made him appear at least Bft,
tall as he stalked about the members’
reserve of the M.C.G. The Trumbles
have an unusual family trait: for the
past five generations they have produced
four male children to one female. Hugh
had several brothers and the brothers
had several sons, as did Hugh. And their
sons in turn are begetting more sons.
Nor is the cricketing section of the family
the only one active; the medical, legal,
squatting and printing branches are
spreading over the State. Given another
50 years at their present rate there’ll be
more Trumbles on the roll than Smiths.
* * * *
“Sackville”; No need to go far from
Sydney to see a clothes-prop vendor or a
bottle-oh (B. 27/2/’52). Parramatta and
its environs are still on their trade-routes.
A street I frequent has a visit from the
first-named at least twice a month. I’ve
.never been able to determine whether
clothes-prop retailers have no zoning
system or there is only one prop-man and
he has a bad memory; but one thing is
obvious; c.-p. men are super-optimists—
what else could make a fellow bellow his
lungs out in a street that flaunts nothing
but post-and-arm lines or the new-fangled
merry-go-round arrangements? As for
bottle-ohs, I can’t accept the contention
that “inflation and full-employment” have
been responsible for the passing of old
Leather-lungs from the Sydney scene.
Evidence in the Liquor Commission as to
the ultimate fate of most of Sydney’s live
marines suggests another reason. I wonder
just what would happen if Bottle-oh
strolled into one of those ultra-posh night-
spots with his chaff-bag under his aim?
* * ♦ *
“Mark O’Polo”: The Romans used
to pray to Jupiter Pluvius, their supreme
deity and rain-controller, to break their
droughts. The part of Rome which first
impressed itself on the rest of the world
was its army, and in the mouths of
irreverent, unlettered soldiers the
beautiful words of the original prayer
became debased to the low-Latin
equivalent of “Send ’er down, Juey.”
eventually reaching the Iberian colonies.
Now as everyone knows who has heard
an Australian trying to pronounce “Don
Juan” like a Spaniard, and saying
“Hooarn,” the Spanish “j” is pronounced
as the English “h,” so it was quite natural
that in Spain the Juey became further
corrupted to Huey. It is, however, one
of the curiosities of philology that this
should be the form in which the degraded
evocation survived as it swept over
Europe into ancient Britain with the
conquering armies and thence, down
through the centuries, to Australia.
“Glen”: May I buy into the “Send her
down, Huie” discussion with a tale of
disillusionment? Years ago my dad, who
is in the butchering business, was in the
Mallee, struggling against drought, de-
pression and his rival, one Hughie
O’Sullivan. In a town with just a handful
of people two butchers were one too
many, but as he weathered the storms
Dad used to say, “Well, Hughie’s the
oldest, he’ll go first.” Sure enough,
Hughie did go first —popped off quite
suddenly with a heart-attack. Not long
after that Dad was lying down having a
rest one afternoon when the sound of
heavy rain on the galvanised-iron roof
caused him to leap suddenly froin N s
bed and, much to our delight and Mum s
disgust, prance excitedly around tn
veranda, shaking his fist at the sky an
shouting loudly, “Send her down,
Huiel” It was years before I foun
was wrong in thinking he was talking
his fate rival, presumably up above.
A BALLAD ON THE SUPERIOR
VIRTUE OF A CLASSICAL
EDUCATION.
“Asked his favorite pastime, a boxer told re-
porters It was reading. Asked what books he read,
he replied, “Not books; I read comics.”
The fight was moving towards the kill;
Brannigan hovered like a vulture;
O’Mally, feeling weak and ill,
Invoked the gods of modern culture:
“O Superman, I’m out of luck!
Bring Gene Autry to my aid!
And try to rope in Donald Duck,
Or I’ll be beaten, I’m afraid!”
It was no sooner said than done,
And Donald Duck, with ready wit,
Took over at the microphone
And quacked, “O’Mally’s losing it!”
(For it would be a shameful thing,
Wicked, unorthodox, unfair,
Should fighters triumph in a ring
Before they’re beaten on the air.)
Next, Autry rode the ringside, saying,
“Dang it, the critter’s nearly gawn!”
And while O’Mally stood there swaying
He held him up with six-guns drawn.
Then Superman flew through the roof
And, sizing-up the true position,
Contrived, while hovering aloft,
To give O’Mally X-ray vision:
“Don’t watch his footwork or his eyes!
Look right into his brain, young man!”
O’Mally’s hopes began to rise;
He looked—but where was Brannigan?
The foe was nowhere to be seen.
0 Mally said, “My God, what’s cooking?
U r <-?- S • • • That’s what it must have been—
-1 hit him when I wasn’t looking!”
Still, Brannigan—he wasn’t there—
In vain O’Mally searched about.
Then, suddenly, the atmosphere
Curled up its fist and knocked him out.
When Brannigan emerged from space,
And the referee had crowned him,
He spoke awhile with studious grace
To the reporters gathered round him:
“O’Mally rakes-in comic friends
To fight his battles with a han drake,
But one sufficed me for my ends —
And I refer, of course, to Mandrake.
“O’Mally isn’t over-bright,
Or otherwise it would be risible—
What profits him his X-ray sight
When Mandrake can make me invisible?
“Classical studies help, I hope,
And students can’t be dog-in-the-mangerous;
Mill, gentlemen, 1 quote you Pope—
A little learning can be dangerous!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“MOTHER!”
“Macann”: Twas the “Wild Cat” man
who wrote it, and verbatim I will quote
it, from The Bulletin of 27th Feb.:
To avoid further losses, and owing to the
unpromising outlook, the co. has ceased
dredging the auriferous gravels near Crom-
well, on the Clutha River (N-Z.), and, on
March 7, shareholders will be asked to
authorise the board to sell the dredge and
other assets.
Cromwell-Clutha—Caulfield’s double—
could have got them out of trouble, saved
the dredge (and assets also) from the ebb,
had they seen the vision splendid in that
tip to them extended, in The Bulletin of
27th Feb. . . Aye, and me too.
♦ * * ♦
“Bass”: This happened in W.A.
Up before the beak on a charge of
drunkenness he was fined a fiver and given
half an hour to find it. He made straight
for the local s.-p. shop, backed the winner
of the next race and collected enough to
pay the fine in the time allowed.
* * * *
“Becks”: At an auction of literary
manuscripts in New York, the cables tell
me, one item which brought a
high price was “the original map of
‘Treasure Island’.” Sorry to be a nark,
but I don’t think the buyer got the
original map. In an account of how
Treasure Island came to be written
Stevenson relates how he drew the map
to pass away an idle afternoon, without
any thought of writing a book. The
story grew from the map and was
serialised in “Young Folks” magazine.
Later Cassells agreed to publish it in
book form and Stevenson posted off
manuscripts and map. In due course the
proofs came back, but no map. On
inquiry, Cassells said they had never
received it. R.L.S. continues the
narrative:
It is one thing to draw a map at random,
set a scale in one comer of it at a venture,
and write a story to the measurements.
It is quite another to have to examine a
whole book, make an inventory of all the
allusions contained in it, and with a pair
of compasses painfully design a map to
suit the data. I did it; and the map was
drawn again in my father’s office, with
embellishments of blowing whales and sail-
ing ships, and my father brought into ser-
vice a knack he had of various writing and
elaborately forged the signature of Captain
Flint and the sailing directions of Billy
Bones. But somehow it was never “Trea-
sure Island” to me.
That is apparently the map sold at the
auction.
♦ * * *
“W.M.H.”: Hope the suicide of those
two Japanese lovers (B. 9/1/’52) does
not start another suicide-wave like the
one that startled the world about 20
years ago. On that occasion a Nipponese
girl, disappointed in love, delivered
herself into the arms of the gods by
jumping into a volcano and started the
biggest wave of suicides in Japanese
history. More than 300 people followed
her example, and many hundreds of
others who tried to dive into the inferno
were restrained by the authorities. An
interesting sidelight was the boost it gave
to the tourist trade. Thousands of sight-
seers visited the scene in the hope of
seeing someone take the plunge.
* * * *
“Frederick Henry”: “Moreton” (B.
20/2/’52) wonders why the Cumberland’s
cargo wasn’t taken off while she was
aground near Gabo. Although the copper
was left aboard her wool cargo was
removed. I know, because the wool
was delivered on a Sunday, damp
and odoriferous, to the wool-scouring
firm of Dodd and Co. at Abbots-
ford, on the Yarra, for treat-
ment. My father was works-manager for
Dodds at the time, and I well remember
the excitement of his eight-years’-old son
in being permitted to accompany him on
that occasion. The scouring-works are
now no more, the premises being used by
the Abbotsford brewery for the storage
of beer-barrels,
* * * *
“Dahaka Las”: At a well-appointed
bush hotel the polishing of the floors
had been accomplished manually by abo.
labor, but the wife of Mine Host decided
to get an electric polisher for the task.
As an uplift to the morale of the dusky
members of her staff she told them of
her plans, but they were unable to
visualise the new piece of mechanism. At
last, after attempting to explain what an
electric polisher looked like, she was
greeted with “Me savee, missus. Alla
same bulldozer.” The device, now
installed, is still referred to as the
bulldozer.
* * * *
“Woody”: I can appreciate the
difficulties of the migration authorities
and can appraise the good work done by
Government and voluntary organisations
for the assimilation of New Australians.
But it is obvious that the programme is
behind schedule. I recently went to my
favorite city pub
and addressed
myself in terse,
familiar tones to
the new barmaid,
“P ot, please.”
She paused, doubt
lingering on her
Baltic features.
“Beer?” she
queried. “Pot,” I
nodded, and
wondered at her faint distress. Then she
brightened, and said triumphantly, “Oh,
der beeg one!” I now feel that I have
contributed to the speeding-up of the
assimilation process.
* * * *
“Bosun’s Mate”: The sounding-
machine which Challenger used to bring
back a clay-dollop from 34,464 ft. down
(B. 27/2/’52) had 20 miles of wire on
its drum for good reason. Assuming
Challenger was stationary, varying cur-
rents met at that great sounding
would have bellied the wire to
a much greater length than the
vertical depth. And when a ship is mak-
ing way (warships take soundings doing
up to 15 knots) the discrepancy, with the
wire trailing astern, would be even
greater. This is overcome by lashing a
brass guard-tube, partly open at the
bottom, to the wire above the deep-sea
lead. Inside the tube is placed a hollow
glass rod, open at its lower end, and
coated inside with red-colored chromate
of silver. As the lead plunges down,
water is forced up inside the glass rod
against air-pressure. As soon as the lead
hits bottom (indicated by a sudden slack-
ening of the sounding wire) the brake is
applied and the machine winds in. Re-
trieved, the glass rod shows white where
water has contacted the chemical. Laid
in a boxwood scale, the “cut” where
white meets red gives the exact vertical
depth, corrected for barometric pressure.
Challenger’s glass rods must have been
some length!
* ♦ * *
“Hamfat”: With all its faults “The
Silver King” (B. 27/2/’52) was a classic
among melodramas; melo. was simply
what it was. The poignancy of the cry of
the repentant drunk who thought he had
become a murderer, “Oh, God, put back
Thy universe and give me yesterday!” is
still remembered. Wilson Barrett first
brought it to Australia ; he also put on
“The Sign of the Cross,” which was given
an additional thrill by the expressed
opinion of some religious people that the
introduction of the Diety on the stage
in a flash of lightning was an impiety
which heaven would certainly punish.
One of the actors in the London produc-
tion, it was significantly whispered, had
actually died on the stage! Julius Knight,
although better suited in “Monsieur
Beaucaire” and “If I Were King,”
included both plays in his repertoire;
and every revival drew capacity houses.
As theatrical lifesavers the plays were in
the same class as “The Message from
Mars” with Hawtrey, “The Private
Secretary” with Frank Thornton, “Fun
on the Bristol” with Sheridan, “Robbery
Under Arms” with Dampier and, yes,
“East Lynne” with anyone.
* * * *
“Penstick”: Another footnote on the
Jenkinses of Berkeley (B. 5/3/’52). I re-
call a memorable occasion in the early
1900’s when the pupils of the Unanderra
public school were assembled to see and
hear the wonder of the age—a phono-
graph, the first in the district, just brought
from abroad by one of the Jenkins
family, then in residence at Berkeley. The
old house was demolished in the ’twenties,
only a few forlorn trees remaining to
mark the site, now virtually surrounded
by hostels for New Australians. The
once-lovely “carriage drive” has long
vanished, an odd palm or the skeleton of
oak or black-apple being the only
evidence of its existence. Allan’s Creek,
once the shaded and beautiful venue of
boating-parties, is now a dam of muddy
water held for industrial use in the near-
by steelworks. I suppose it’s progress.
* * * *
“Bamekaw”: Having burnt-out a jug-
element, fused the lights and given myself
a shock I decided not to tamper with the
cord any more, so I took it to a local
tradesman. He was most caustic on the
subject of amateur electricians, read me
a lecture on safety-first, and quoted one
or two appalling instances of electrocu-
tion of the unskilled, I meekly followed
him into his workroom while he did the
job. “Don’t put your hand too near the
switch,” he said. “Been so busy fixing
other people’s lights, I haven’t had time
to see to my own.” A few inches from
where I had casually placed my hand
were two bare leads coming out of the
wall. “Is the current on?” I asked him.
“Sure,” he said. “Watch me switch the
light on.” Taking up an old razor-blade
he deftly dropped it across the two wires.
On came the light. To switch-off a
nonchalant flick of the thumb sent the
blade flying away. “See what I mean
about mugs not fooling around with the
juice?” he asked. “In the hands of an
expert, it’s quite safe.”
* * * ♦
“C. 8.”: Theatrical coincidences? A
Melbourne amateur operatic society
wanted a stage for a G. and S. opera
and applied to the Hawthorn Town Hall.
The only date available was February
29. The opera selected was “The Pirates
of Penzance,” the prime point of which,
as every Gilsullivanite knows, is that its
hero, Frederick, was a Leap Year baby.
* * * *
“Mr. Schaum”: Several times lately I
have read that pipe-smoking is growing
in popularity among women. And why
not? Whether it be a hubble-bubble or a
ME NU i
“Snapper for two!"
hookah, a brier or a meerschaum, a pipe
should steady female nerves quite as
effectively as male. The picture of
one particular lady will always rise clear
in my mind whenever I hear derisive
comment about women pipe-smokers.
She owned a hotel in a tiny western-
Queensland town. Genteel and frail-
looking, grey wisps of hair falling over
her face, she sat at the back of the bar
watching her sons and daughters dispense
refreshment to the dust-coated throats of
the locals. All the while, the picture of
content, she would puff away at a small
pipe. The regulars were so used to her
that her pipe hardly evoked comment;
it was the stranger who was likely to fall
into a trap. If any stranger had the
temerity to allow his thoughts to be-
come vocal, the old lady would
immediately come forward and peer into
the face across the bar. “Have ye no
heard of a woman smoking a pipe
before?” she would mutter. “Well, tell
me what’s wrong with it.” The varied re-
actions to such a direct attack were a
study. Most of her victims were human
enough to become acutely embarrassed,
but invariably she would take the edge off
what could, if need be, develop into a
biting tongue, with an invitation to have
one on the house.
* * * *
“Ben Ari”: Only the fact that I was a
man in love excuses me for heeding
the enthusiast who urged me
to take my honeymoon trip over a
track which wound through Jarrah-
land’s forest giants. He spoke ecstatically
about the majesty of the massive timber,
the rain reflecting the sun’s glitter,
butterfly - wings flitting through the
scrub and flights of birds in shimmer-
ing showers. We went. Artistic percep-
tion obscured by the crashes which shook
our 7 h.p. chariot as it bounded over the
foot-deep corrugation of the gravel road,
I peered through a rain-splattered dust
and, later, mud-misted windscreen which
falsely led me through long and almost
bottomless puddles lying across the twin-
rutted clay track. Appreciation of the
rain’s reflecting glitter was drowned by
its dripping entry through a leaking hood,
massive jarrahs presented formidable and
menacing barriers to the road’s edge, while
birds and butterflies seemed too prudent
to issue out on such a foul day. After
four hours of slow agony we pulled into
a lonely hamlet. As I approached the
petrol-pump I subdued my rising rage,
leered politely at the fuel vendor (for the
benefit of my bride), and muttered some-
thing formal about its having been “a
nice trip down.” He eyed our muddy-
green bus speculatively and answered:
“Pretty good road, I reckon —when a
bloke sees the sights from his own magic
carpet!”
* * * *
“Macnell”: Voyager is reborn, as are
to be the other V’s, Vendetta, Vampire
and Vaterhen. But why not Stuart, which
was a flotilla-leader and, perhaps, more
famous than any of the others? While
conceding that Stuart, with her 4.7-
inchers, was slightly above the V and W
class in armament and power, surely her
valiant name warrants perpetuation. Her
captain in those stormy Mediterranean
days, Hector Macdonald Waller (Hard-
Over Hec, we affectionately called him),
drove her to perform feats at the battle of
Matapan as mighty as any destroyer’s in
War II —she fought like a tiger, with guns
and torpedoes, blowing open a cruiser
eight times her weight. Waller fought his
last fight on Perth’s bridge, surrounded
by an overwhelming force of Jap. cruisers
and destroyers. He’d had Stuart also at the
battle of Calabria, when the Italian Battle
Fleet was sent scuttling for home, with
battleship Cavour crippled. As well, of
course, Stuart performed her share of the
Scrapiron Flotilla’s bombarding, sub-
hunting, ferry-running and aircraft-
repelling. And she had her slice of the
Pacific war. A record like that should
not be allowed to sink with her valiant
old bones.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Harbel”: Two bricklayers working on
a job near Sydney were both sud-
denly enveloped by tiny black flying-ants.
Necks, shoulders, arms were black with
the minute, irritating pests. A firm strok-
ing movement down the arms killed
hundreds. Thousands replaced them.
The visitation lasted two hours. Here’s
the puzzle; Why did they swarm on the
two men, making no attempt to settle on
avails, bricks or scaffold?
♦ * * *
“Box 324”: All the romantic rubbish
about the abo. will get him nowhere. The
basic cause of his anomalous position is
that he has no generic name —as the
English, Irish, Zulu, Red Indian and
so forth. The congeries of abo. tribes
had local names enough to identify them-
selves to themselves, and the whites, whilst
pioneering the land, used and wrote only
such local names as given them by local
natives. So no general title was applied
by anybody to the race as a whole. But
there was one word which covered the
entire people, “Murri,” meaning Man-
with-his-hand, the symbol of power—for
men without hands would be unthink-
able to a race of hunters. Hence in
dialects, while still leaving “murri” its
overall significance, interchangeable forms
of it occur, as murra, marra, murrum,
mulla, mutta, mitta and so on, having to
do with man and his handiwork. Murri,
being the most honorable term in that it
connoted man (like mankind), correlated
all dialectic variations of it; it is both
singular and plural, as sheep. Murri
(sound the “i”) is dignified, musical, com-
prehensive and does not lend itself to dis-
tortion. When a native can say “I am a
Murri,” he will have recovered pride of
ancestry, a fine thing for any man or
race. The reapplication of this name to
“There's goin' t ’ be a dreadful accident at this corner one day!”
aborigines would revive their self-respect
and cohesion as a race—in short, make
them “somebody”; for neither man nor
breed can get along without a name. I
commend “Murri,” their own basic word,
to the aborigines. Its adoption by them
could be easily confirmed if needful by
the Federal Government.
, * *
“R. Ney”; That yarn (B. 5/3/’52)
about the dog which lay in the shade while
its master and missus worked a mob of
jumbucks on a hot day will pass if the
dog was anything but a Kelpie, Barb,
Border Collie or one of the various sheep-
dog crosses. It won’t if the dog is meant
to be a sheepdog. None of that breed
would be found lying down while sheep
were being worked, no matter what the
weather, unless the dog was (a) bound
hand and foot or ( b ) stone dead. The
difficulty with sheepdogs is not to make
them work, but to stop them working.
* * * *
“The Bunyip”: Just three months ago
the lower Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) were
roasted and 50 homes went up in smoke.
Strolled around the ridges the other day
and was not disappointed in the recupera-
tive powers of the Australian bush.
Bloodwqod saplings up to about 4in.
diameter were settled aloft, but from
their butts suckers are now a yard high.
The turpentines behaved differently ; they
have new lateral branches in profusion,
over a foot out on each side of the
blackened trunks. Wattles are knee high,
seedlings and suckers all together ; and
ti-tree bushes that were burnt black now
have soft, drooping sheaves of young
growth ; at this stage they look more like
willows. A few yellow goodenias are in
flower, and Hardenbergia, the false
sarsaparilla, is again setting off on its
cross-country rambles. There are still
large patches where the leaves are more
brown than green, but the green patches
are gaining fast and the early stage of
stark desolation is over. A bloke couldn’t
but feel the better for having spent an
hour or two in the company of living
things that had passed through fire and,
refusing to admit defeat, are now strain-
ing every fibre to rebuild as rapidly as
possible. There’s a moral in it
somewhere.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: A recent Bully story
recalled it. Euston lay somnolent in
the summer sun, both pubs deserted, the
one street empty save for two dogs asleep
under the pepperina by the Royal. Down
the Balranald Road came a man on a
bike. He parked it near the dogs and
went quietly into the bar, where the
publican identified him as Tolpra Byrnes.
Ten minutes later there were five men in
that bar, two bikes and a utility-truck
parked outside, and from odd spots along
the river and behind the store more men
drifted towards the pub. Within an hour
the bar was half-full, 11 dogs strutted
and quarrelled outside, a sulky and two
hacks had been added to the parked con-
veyances. That’s all, except for the
question of how all those coves knew that
Tolpra had arrived and that Tolpra had a
fair cheque to spend. I’ll swear none of
us saw him come.
* * * *
“Billy T”: In a corner of my cow-
paddock is a 3ft. hole dug by the local
youngsters for a fort or a goldmine or
something, and recent rains covered the
bottom of it. Janie (the cow) likes to
stand in this hollow —the site seems con-
ductive to calm contemplation—and she
has a track beaten from the bail to the
hole. She was nearing the end of this
track the other evening when she
propped, bellowed, stuck her tail in the
air and made three smart circuits of the
paddock, coming to an apprehensive stop
in a corner. Meantime the blue heron
upon which she had nearly trodden was
trying to calm himself on the top of a
distant gum. He had stopped uttering
the ear-splitting squawks which had
accompanied his sudden take-off, but he
still couldn’t understand what the blazes
a poley cow would want with tadpoles.
* * * *
“M.S.”: Sam and Bill, both keen
fishermen, often made the 40-mile trip to
the nearest trout stream. “Haven’t been
out for three weeks now,” Sam remarked,
looking up from his post-splitting.
“What about going next Sunday, if it’s
any sort of a day?” Bill agreed readily,
and the talk turned fishward. The
prospect heartened the pair daily, until
“But I tell you the Olympic Games WON’T be held here!”
Saturday arrived with still no change in
the weather. “Not much good going
tomorrow in this heat,” Sam remarked
dolefully. “Wouldn’t get a bite. An’,
anyway, it’d kill a man.” “Yes,” Bill
agreed. “Besides, the ute would never
make it. Won’t pull when she boils.
Still,” he added hopefully, “you can
never tell from one day to the next what
the weather’ll be. It changes quickly.”
“You’re right there,” Sam nodded. “And
we don’t want to get caught with nothing
ready. Better catch a couple of tins of
bait tonight.” With the bait caught, the
pair turned their attention to their gear,
tested lines and hooks, and packed every-
thing into fishing bags. “We’ll get away
early if it breaks cool,” Bill announced.
“I’ll give the ute a run-over to make sure
she’s ready. It might save time, too, if
you cut our cribs overnight, don’t you
think?” The following dawn broke cloud-
less, and a red sun climbed over the
horizon, pitiless in its threat. “Going to
be another scorcher. Bill.” “Yair.”
“Still, we’ve got everything ready now,
and . . and .. . What do you reckon?
I mean —well, after catching the bait, and
everything. Seems silly, doesn’t it?” Ten
minutes later they were on their way.
» * * *
“Macnell”; “What is the farthest-
reaching and most-arresting sound in the
Australian bush?” asks “Kelms” (B.
27/2/’52). Haven’t a clue, but shipmates
of destroyer Nepal will back my estimate
of the fastest-acting sound which ever
reached us at sea. We were crash-destroyer
anchored near the boom-gate in Trin-
comalee harbor, our job to dash out and
deal with any sub. game enough to crash
the boom and get in amongst the Eastern
Battle Fleet anchored inside. We were
swimming peacefully over the side when
a cruiser slipped out. As she passed
through the gate a patrol-boat dashed
backwards and forwards scross her wake,
busily dropping 25-pound depth-charges
on anything which might have had ideas
about slipping in. Right enough—except
that the boom-gate vessel forgot to tell
us. Water is a wonderful conductor, and
the sound —plus the posterior-packing
wallops—made a tortoise of any bush
note. There was nothing “arresting”
about it, either. The swimming-party was
clear of the water in 10 seconds flat.
“Kelvin”: The call of the desert abo.
(B. 27/2/’52) has a comparatively limited
earshot-range as compared with the
sound which the Torres Straits native can
get with the “boo” shell. I’ve heard it
across five miles of water, and, though
I know sound carries further across water
than across land, it was so loud I think it
could be heard at almost twice that
distance. The calls are the equivalent of
the repertoire of bugle sounds used for
“white-pfeller” military signals.
* * * *
“Edx”: I say, please tell dear old
“Gravelsnatcher” (B, 20/2/’52) that what
he calls your climate seems to depend on
his definition of “mild.” Jolly old book
of words says mild is gentle, soft, bland,
mellow; not severe, harsh, or fierce. If
over 110 degrees for a fortnight is part
of a mild climate —well, dash it, the
climate of Melbourne must be harsh and
that of London quite fierce, what? Bad
luck for the blinkin’ old Eskimo. Area
as big as France south of the Tropic in
W.A. alone, a lot hotter than Mukin-
budin, dashed lucky to get 6in. of rain
a year, often has none and then gets four
years’ issue in one season. Like beer on a
jolly old slate, y’ know. Useless. Runs
off. Normal appearance of above: no
permanent water, no big trees, no flowers,
no grass, no shelter and dashed few
animals. Not severe? Beastly east wind
in winter’s enough to make the bally old
brazen simian shiver and north wind in
summer would melt same. I mean to
say, can’t call it mild just because he’s
used to it, can he? Come to think of it
though, might be something in it.
Bought some of your fags once. Packet
said they were mild, too. Orstralian jest,
what? Well, pip-pip.
* * * *
“5.W.A.8.”: In Vingter’s story of the
South Burnett blacks (B. 13/2/’52), the
J. J, M. Borthwick mentioned was my
great-uncle. A later incident, probably
with the same tribe, caused him to sell
out and return to Scotland while he still
had a whole skin and plenty of bawbees.
It happened that J.J.M.B. every morning
made it a practice to go down for a swim
to a deep pool into which he always dived
from the same place. One morning
something prompted him to look into the
water before plunging in. He found that
blacks had planted spears in the water in
such a way that had he plunged he
would have had more holes in him than
a colander.
* * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were loading gravel
at Haddon, about 10 miles out of
Ballarat, and the old storekeeper took a
shine to us. He’d have us playing crib
at night, and yarning, and us listening to
his experiences as a horse-trainer in his
young days. Then the Ballarat races
loomed up and the storekeeper became
excited. He started to talk about a colt
entered in a mile race. I’ve forgotten
the name, but I’ll never forget that,
according to the storekeeper, it was by
Trafalgar. This fact, together with its
being locally trained by somebody he
knew well, convinced him that a packet
was to be made. The day before the
race he turned an ankle, so persuaded Mat
to go and bet for him, urging Mat to
have a few quid on for himself. “It’s by
Trafalgar,” he asserted. “It’s a good
thing. I know a horse when I see one.”
Mat fell for it and headed for Ballarat.
The wireless didn’t even mention the
colt. Mat came back just on dark. “Y’
told me that thing was by Trafalgar,” he
snorted. “It wasn’t. It was by its ruddy
self —ten lengths behind the rest.”
♦ * * *
“Laetitia”: Being jerked in at the end
of the line (B. 27/2/’52) is not the only
risk an angler takes when after kingfish.
I’ve seen a man’s shinbone laid bare
when he carelessly stepped across a
40-pounder which, after a good wooden-
ing with a tiller, lay supposedly dead on
the deck of a Torres Straits lugger. A
shark, too, can be dangerous after being
hoisted out. A Maroochydore (Q.) pro-
fessional fisherman had an eight-footer
strung up inside the cabin of his launch
and brushed against it. His shoulder was
seized in such a position that he could
not free himself, and only the lucky
advent of his son in another launch saved
him from bleeding to death. Some years
ago at Cairns (N.Q.) a shark swooped at
a dog racing through 18in.-deep water and
became stranded. The cocky dog
attacked the stranded fish and was neatly
bisected.
DAM IN THE NIGHT.
By the mine dam in the night
In our hut’s dim lantern light
With shadows standing by,
I heard the ducks fly over.
Each lonesome feathered rover,
Hie curlew’s mournful cry;
Heard in the reeds, the frogs,
The ’roos leaping the logs,
A wind spring up afar;
And high above it all
A station stallion call
And shake each trembling star;
Oh I could hear come near
The light-foot mountain deer
As they came down to drink;
The splash of waterfowl,
The grumbling of the owl,
Things at the water’s brink.
And when the lantern died
I lay, still wonder-eyed,
And, ere I dwelt in sleep,
Heard talk of rock and spring
The wide bush gossiping
Its secrets dark and deep.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


dsfdsfsfsd
ffi*
Dlfttt*
OV?
"Si
G 9
0$
VS
s®
o
BY APPOINTMENT
gin distillers
TO lI.M. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd*
sn*xrm^eiSta&e
Gordons
Stamds Sap\J2AM
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
to
m
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
NJS.W. Branch;
8 Spring: Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
More Ple
from Mot
f
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your lyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. ..
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
of cna'tacfe't
m
&
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MR. E. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., C.L,
G.P.O. Box 11.
“Teneriffe”: The abo. certainly had a
sense of humor embarrassing sometimes
tt> missionaries (B. 5/3/’52). The Hon.
Harold Finch-Hatton, who, with his
brother Henry, Earl of Winchilsea, was
joint owner of Mount Spencer station in
the Mackay (Q.) district in the ’Bo’s, relates
in his reminiscences a conversation he
had with an aborigine on Heaven. The
black, pointing to the sky, asked: “Big
white master, he stop up there? You
been see Him that one?” “Yowi (yes).
Bimcbye you see Him that one too! ” A
pause, then: “That One, He got store up
there?” (Possession of a store implied
unlimited power to‘a blackfellow). “My
word. Plenty flour, plenty ’bacca. Sup-
posetn you good feller, bimeby you get
plenty up there!” “You go along that
One bimeby?” “Yowi. Mine think it
bimeby go along o’ that one, get wings,
fly in clouds like bird! ” At this the black
said “Gammon!” then roiled on the
ground in convulsions of laughter. The
idea of a blackfellow with wings struck
him as extremely comical.
♦ * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Despite the books
that have been written on the subject so
little has been settled about eucalypts
that I wasn’t surprised at “Cbarbro’s”
contention (B. 6/2/’52) that there are
only some 700 varieties. It would be
comforting to botanists to believe that,
but the number is probably much higher.
Much depends on how the different types
are classified. The red-flowering gum of
WA, for instance, comes in all shades
of flowers from bright-red through
salmon and pink to white. The red is the
true red-flowering gum, and the white is
the well-distributed redgum—a big tree
with a dirty-white wood, but with veins
of'a redgum from which it derives its
name. The other shades of flowers prob-
ably come from crosses between the two
types. Each color is sufficiently estab-
lished to warrant its being considered a
separate type. The eucalypt has more
types thap, any other known species of
plant—with the possible exception of
algae.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Vet”: Before shifting into the district
Herb had mentioned that he wanted a
dog, and the news soon got around. The
morning he brought his family to the new
farm. Dad Wilson arrived leading a mong.
“Heard you didn’t have a dog,” he told
Herb, “so I ’cided to give you Nigger.
He ain’t much on stock, mind you,
but you’ll find him pretty good at foller-
in’ along.” That evening another caller
arrived. “Brought you a dog,” he an-
nounced generously. “Heard you didn’t
have one.” He tied the nondescript to
the back porch, and departed. The fol-
lowing day it was a springcart that
stopped and unloaded a canine gift for the
new settler, and later still came a boy
with a message of welcome from another
neighbor, and a further four-footed
present. At the end of a fortnight
Herb surveyed nine mongs along
the fence under the pepper-tree.
Several were too old to work,
several other unpromising specimens
were too young, and the remainder too
“Anyone got a Knob o' blue on 'em?"
shrewd. Now, added to his problem of
where to get a decent dog, is his trouble
of how to get rid of the district’s useless
mongs without falling out with all his
neighbors.
* * * *
“Ymar”: Ahead of us on the track
were three plover chicks sunning them-
selves, their proud mother standing by.
Although the car swerved to avoid the
chicks, which, startled, “froze” where they
stood. Mother Plover still thought them
in danger and, with love’s desperate
courage, launched herself in defence
almost into the windscreen.
* # ♦ •
“Eurimburra”: The big wedgetail, an
unusual sight in our district, was about
three miles away when first spotted,
silhouetted against a white sheet of hail
falling from a storm. Riding effortlessly
and rapidly upward on the air-currents
caused by the disturbance, he soon out-
distanced the minute harassing specks that
were probably crows, then in two huge
sweeps he was over the house and up
3000 ft. or more. Down he came in tight
circles till he’d lopped off a couple of
thousand feet of altitude, but would come
no closer. The whiz of passing cars on
the highway and the rattle of trucks and
engines at the sheds across the way had
him bluffed. But he told me that the
badly-injured ewe left in the paddock
opposite by a drover was dead. How
the deuce did he know?
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: If I’ve got termites
on the brain it isn’t only because I’m pine-
headed. It’s because I’m seeing so much
of them. Usually when I find a board
full of them I carry it carefully over to
the chookyard and invite the hens to a
feast. The other day I laid a board on
the lawn until a more convenient time;
when I went for it I decided to leave
it. The small meat-ants were there in
strength, hunting out the termites and
dragging them home to dinner. The
white blokes struggled, but they obviously
hadn’t a chance, and I got to thinking.
Back in the termites’ nest there’d be
soldiers. Don’t laugh. Those blokes are
tough. They can discharge a sticky fluid
that’s potent enough to deal with a
normal-sized enemy, and it would be fatal
to a meat-ant. Now, surely the slaves were
entitled to such protection as they could
provide. Don’t termites ever protect their
outposts? It seems not. I’ve never seen
soldiers away from the mound. Makes
me feel happier about Czechoslovakia
and other places, but I suppose that’s
carrying the analogy too far.
“Bosun’s Mate”: That “Mac” of
“Sackfair’s” (B. 27/2/’52) who flays the
powers-that-be and in the next breath
threatens a migrant with mayhem for not
recognising Mac’s king, recalls a naval
Mac —only his name was Nobby. Cruiser
Hobart had just hit port after pulling out
the British swotties from Berbera. In
the pub Nobby and I were dissolving the
salt when a loud-mouthed Australian
from a destroyer interrupted Nobby’s
own high-strategy tirade against the mugs
what allowed a bunch of Dagoes to push
us into the sea. The destroyer-man was
mouthing; “Look at Dunkirk. Now
there’s Berbera. British Expeditionary
Force?” He drained his glass, smacked
it on the bar and sneered. “British
Evacuation Force! ” Nobby had been one
of the boat’s crew which had brought
back those exhaused soldiers. That was
in 1941 —I still swear that sailor’s feet
left the deck a clear two inches when
Nobby hit.
£ ;£ )|c £
“Bass”: Crows as meat (B. 20/2/’52)?
Don Munday, who ran a sheep-station on
the Mistake River well east of the War-
burton Ranges (W.A.), told me that Kelly
was the last item on the blacks’ menu.
They didn’t draw the fine at much, and
after the kookaburra was introduced to
W.A. they went for the laughster with
their ears back. But they’d eat crow only
as a final starvation-beater.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“D.R.H.”; I stopped at the fence
corner to gut the hare. It was a doe, in
■ good condition, and there were three
embryos in an early state of develop-
ment. Everything looked normal when
I slit up the belly, except that a small
disk of light-colored tissue, slightly bigger
than a florin, lay on the coiled intestines.
But as I lifted the carcass by the hind-
legs a small dark ball fell out at my feet.
This consisted apparently of hair enclosed
in an envelope of thin tissue to which,
by a thin cord, was attached the little
disk I’d noted. When the tissue was
opened the ball of hair turned out to be
a full-sized, long-dead embryo. The
bones were perfect, but most of the soft
tissues, with the exception mainly of
cartilages like those in the ear, had been
reabsorbed by the mother. Absorption of
skin and muscle had, of course, left the
fur as a wrapping about the mummified
little body. The little disk was the
placenta. Now, the ancestors of all
mammals, as investigation of a frog
shows clearly, shed their eggs into the
body cavity to travel forward until they,
or most of them, reached the funnel-like
opening of the oviduct. Nature being
a diehard conservative, the old plan has
not changed: even in the human the egg
is shed into the abdominal cavity, but it
is almost at once caught in the fringes
of tissue about the mouth of the oviduct.
Occasionally an egg escapes; rarely is
such already fertilised, and nature makes
a valiant attempt to implant this egg
somewhere in the abdomen. The little
hare may have had such a fate, or de-
velopment may have begun in the egg
tube instead of the uterus, a subsequent
rupture releasing the young into the
belly.
PLEAD WITH THE SWANS.
Plead with the swans to remain and be still on
the water,
The wild, beautiful swans that awake my unrest,
Plead with the swans, let there be no returning
To the forbidden land within my breast.
Whose the wanderer’s cry that pierced my
dreaming? .
Arrows cross the moon’s heart high in the sky,
With strong sweeping wings to rekindle my
passionate longing,
Aloof, alone, the wild black swans go by.
N.S.W.
OLGA SCHLUNKE.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UNION
TRUSTEE is, by experience, cm expert manager ©I
Pastoral Estates
THOSE whose interests lie in pastoral properties can,
with complete confidence, appoint the Union Trustee
Company to administer their estate. Over a period of
many years the Company has acquired an extensive
knowledge and experience of every phase of grazing and
farming property management. It has available the advice
of an experienced Board of Directors in each of three
eastern capital cities, and maintains a permanent Pastoral
Farm and Stock Inspector in three States.
The Company acts as Executor, Administrator, Trustee
or Attorney. Its charges are moderate —and are limited
by law.
Call and interview one of the senior officers or write for
a complimentary copy of the Company’s booklet.
The UNIO
E
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.,
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albnry, Townsville. Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St M Brisbane
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Gas Light Co, (Sydney)
Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec,, Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£> £> £ £
1940.. 218,774 4ip.c.= 218,700 74 1,850
1941.. 202,100 4 „ „ 194,400 7,700 9,550
1942.. 195,970 4 „ „ 194,400 1,570 11,120
1943.. 224,323 4i „ „ 218,700 6,623 16,743
1944.. 297,537 5| „ „ 230,850 66,687 83,430
1945.. 338,872 6 „ „ 291,600 47,272 130,702
1946.. 323,302 6 „ „ 291,600 31,702 138,104
From tax provision, etc., £38,903.. 177,007
1947.. 250,999 6 p.c. = 291,600 136,406
1948.. 144,174 5„ „ 243,000 37,580
Loss.
1949.. 2.493 Nil 35.087
Profit.
1950.. 297,657 6 p.c. = 291,600 6,057 41,144
1951.. 14,346 1 „ „ 48,600 6,890
The last line in the table is fresh
evidence of downright shabby treatment
of shareholders in an efficiently-handled
public-utility undertaking, and of the
undermining of the market-value of a
trustee security, by the Government in
N. S. Wales. The collapse of net earn-
ings, and of the dividend, were due
primarily to Government procrastination
—for political, not economic reasons—in
adjusting the selling-price of gas to meet
turgid costs, mainly wages and the price
of coal and transport, etc. It is a dis-
honorable practice—dishonorable to the
very people who should be encouraged
and protected, namely, the small investor
who put up the risk capital on the strength
of an Act of Parliament which says that
rate of dividend on this risk (ord.) capital
should be 6 p.c. p.a.
On the Stock Exchange, where prices
and yields provide a host of signposts for
the direction of capital into and away
from a multiplicity of undertakings, the
co.’s f,-p. £1 shares have long stood at a
discount. During 1951 the price fell
from 19s. Id. to 13s. 6d. It stood at 14s.
last week, giving an immediate return of
1.4 p.c. on the basis of last year’s distri-
bution of 1 p.c. On a 3| p.c. div. (the
rate now current on new issues of Gov-
ernment bonds) the yield would be 5.3
p.c. Since shares cannot be issued at a
discount, and since continued expansion
of the undertaking is essential in the
public interest, the co. has been forced to
finance its inevitable growth mainly on
4 p.c. debenture money, which, of course,
ranks in front of the share capital, and
now substantially exceeds it in volume.
While investors in the co.’s ord. stock
still breathe, let the Government take
heed, and, instead of playing official
shuttlecock, correct the position in this
and other respects, including the statutory
allowance for depreciation (a mere
3 p.c.). The vital question is whether the
industry should be allowed to earn
sufficient profit to remunerate its risk
capital adequately and to replace its stock
and fixed assets. If it’s not allowed to do
this, the damage to the undertaking, and
the inevitable consequences to the public,
will ultimately become irreparable.
Now consider the co.’s revenue and
expenditure figures:
1950. 1951.
Gas £4.254.290 £5,649,526
Residuals 493,093 654,690
Meter rents, etc 38,179 47,287
Total £4,785,662 £6,851,503
Manufac. and dis. expenses.. 3,707,512 5,440,553
Other charges .. .. 333,050 398,278
Interest 184,813 218,640
Depreciation, etc. ~ .. 262,530 279,786
Total outgo ~ ~ £4,487,905 £6,837,157
Last term’s revenue increased by
£1,565,941, but outgoings gobbled the
gain and £283,311 besides. The cost of
manufacture and distribution (mainly
coal and wages) alone increased by
£1,733,041. The profit was a mere
£14,346, or 0.3 p.c. on the £4,860,000 of
share capital. And the div., which was
lowered from 6 p.c. to 1 p.c., called for
£34,254 more profit than claimed.
The lift in selling-price asked for in
Dec., 1950, was not granted until March,
1951, and a loss of £BO,OOO showed up
for the first half of the term. It was a
recent further increase in selling-price
that encouraged the board to pay a
diminutive 1 p.c., making the average
distribution over the last four years a
modest 3 p.c., or half the statutory rale
prescribed by the Act and less than can
be had from Government bonds in the
open market. What shareholders are
likely to receive for the current year
depends upon the time-lag between the
rise in costs and lift in controlled selling-
prices. Solution of the co.’s difficulties
lies in a rise-and-fall formula which
would allow the selling-price of gas to be
automatically adjusted to variations in
major items of cost each quarter, as the
chairman has pointed out.
Last term £741,278 was added to the
book-value of plant (£9,111,546), £444,792
to debtors’ balances, etc. (£1,636,707) and
£260,671 to stocks (£856,117). To meet
the outlay the debenture debt (£5,778,000)
was increased by £1,128,000, and the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
(£1,497,639) by £514,583. Freeholds
figure at £175,510 and leaseholds, etc., at
£765,541.
Last month the co. came on to the
market with a £1,000,000 12-year cash
(£750,000) and conversion (£250,000 of
41-per-cents.) loan at £4 12s. sd. p.c.,
highest rate offered for a public debenture
issue for some years. The issue (now
largely subscribed) has been underwritten
by lan Potter and Co., the Melbourne
brokers.
Grocery & General Merchants, Ltd.
t Dividends ~ Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.*
SO, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
Unexplained addition, £33,396 .. 137,127
1950 .. 110,360 5 7 82,638 164,849
Revaluation freeholds, £181,750 .. 346,599
“Acquisition of assets,” £124,242 .. 470,841
Goodwill written off, £5861 .. .. 476,702
1951 .. 177,011 5 9 137,561 516,152
* Reserves subject to intangibles, being difference be-
tween independent and nominal valuations of assets
acquired (now £323,959).
This is the big holding co. which, at
June 30, 1949, amalgamated the
interests of four cos. operating in the
difficult dry-goods trade in N. S. Wales.
Two of them (D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd.,
and David Cohen and Co., Pty.) were
in the manufacturing and wholesale field,
and the other two (Bussell Bros., Ltd.,
and North Western General Stores, Ltd.)
at the retail end, where they controlled
a chain of shops widely scattered
throughout the metropolis and country
districts. The idea was to eliminate waste
in buying and selling, as well as over-
lapping in organisation, to the benefit of
shareholders and the public. Much has
already been achieved in these and other
directions. The moving spirit behind it
all was, and still is, Paul A. Cullen, now
managing-director, who has planned the
development on American lines. The
narrow margins in this class of trade call
for large turnover and comparatively low
overhead if satisfactory profits are to be
won.
The merger was effected by an
exchange of shares:
Before Merger.
, -A- G. & G.
Paid Divs. Shares.
Capital, p.c. Received.*
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. £131,875 5J £142,875f
David Cohen and Co. Pty. 174,746 294,205
Bussell Bros., Ltd. .. 132,826 8 199,289
North Western General
Stores, Ltd 214,400 7 323,250
Total .. ..£654,947 £959,569
•Face value, f Includes £ll,OOO for payment to
a long-standing creditor.
Later £lOO,OOO of 5 p.c. prefs. in the
North Western co. were exchanged for
a like amount of 5-per-cents, in G. and G.
Merchants. Shareholders are now
receiving more in dividends than they
did before the merger, and the aggregate
capital value of their shares has appre-
ciated in the market, too.
Additional grocery, manufacturing
and other units were soon welded
into the organisation, and a sub-
sidiary, Grocery and General (Overseas)
Pty., was formed to look after buying
and selling abroad. By June 30, 1950,
paid capital had grown to £1,213,200 in
200,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs. (half issued for
cash) and 4,052,798 ords. of ss. each,
issued in exchange for businesses taken
over Group profit for the year was
£110,360, which covered the pref. div.
and 9.6 p.c. on average ord. capital, and
7 p.c. was distributed.
The expansion continued by absorp-
tions and development during the 1951
term, when additional wholesale and
factory units were established or bought,
some of the smaller grocery shops, which
looked like becoming lame ducks, were
closed, and still more country stores were
purchased—these country units made a
“splendid contribution to net earnings,”
the chairman says. Here is a bird’s-eye
view of the organisation of the group:
Em-
ployees.
June 1960. 1951. 1951.
Grocery chain stores .. 80 76 257
Country general stores .. 25 30 684
Wholesale warehouses .. 9 12 459
Factories ~ .. .. 4 5 452
Export-import cos 1 2 10
The food-processing and -canning
factories are at Newcastle and Botany
(N.S.W.) and Ulverstone (Tas.) Opera-
tions at the lastmentioned centre include
the canning of rabbits, w'hose fur is now
cut and marketed in U.S. by a subsidiary,
Furex Pty., recently formed for the
purpose. Another new offshoot, Adet
Seward (N.S.W.) Pty., imports and dis-
tributes quality liquors and tobacco.
Another important development is
conversion of some of the units in the
grocery chain of self-service “superettes”
(of which 22 are now operating in and
around Sydney) and the establishment of
“supermarkets.” The latter offer not
only groceries, but bakery and dairy pro-
ducts, fruit, vegetables, meat, fish, etc.,
all under one roof. Much is expected
from both these methods of trading.
Sales for the year to June 30 last
increased by over £3£ million. After
allowing £105,238 (up £49,006) for taxa-
tion —nothing is mentioned about depre-
ciation —net earnings were £177,011 (up
£66,651), or enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 11.9 p.c. on average ord.
capital. The ord. div. was lifted to a
generous 9 p.c.
During the year £200,000 of fresh
5 p.c. pref. capital was gathered at par,
and the total on the ord. register increased
by £444,926 in payment for further
businesses acquired;
1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. ~£1,213,200 £1,858,126
Mortgages .. .. .. 65,350 576,192
Overdraft 701,815 1,839,327
Creditors and taxation ~ 456,369 1,681,374
Final divs 44,776 72,906
Freeholds 587,731 1,277,349
Plant and equipment .. 208,931 627,117
Debtors 678,149 1,229,025
Stocks 970,534 2,997,958
Cash and investments .. 30,850 53,008
Inter-co. balances .. .. 34,847 35,661
Intangibles 141,178 323,959
Net additions to stocks were £2,029,424,
book debts £550,876, plant £418,186 and
freeholds £689,618, of which £181,750
was on account of revaluation. To meet
this heavy outlay the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £1,137,512, added
£1,225,005 to the amount coming to
sundry creditors and £510,842 to
mortgages.
With 345, 6d. of outside money in the
business for every pound belonging to
shareholders, the board has asked C.I.C.
to authorise an issue of 3,000,000 new
ss. ords. at par, one for two —and there
the matter stands at the moment.
The market notes the weight of the
outside debt and the size of stocks and
debtors’ balances, that the £516,152 of
reserves is subject to £323,959 by which
the cost of shares in subsidiaries exceeds
their face-value, that the business, though
still expanding, is also in process of re*
organisation, and that the future is un-
predictable. It sums up the position by
pricing the ords. at ss. sd. A one-for-one
new issue at par would reduce the net
price, after increasing the rights, to
ss. 3d., giving a return of 8.6 p.c. so long
as the 9 p.c. div. continues. The pound
prefs. at 19s. 3d. yield 5.2 p.c. Net
tangible cover at June 30 last was
£5 7s. Id. prefs. and 3s. lid. ords.
W. R. Carpenter & Co.
To Re— Tic—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1942.. 0f,986 5 p.c. ■= 88,750 54,236 353,467
1943.. 65,076 5 „ „ 38,750 26,326 379,793
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 354,793
1944.. 65,873 6 p.c. = 88,750 27,123 381,916
To inner reserves, £26,000 .. .. 356,916
1945.. 66,035 5 p.c. = 38,750 27,285 384,201
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 359,201
1946.. 67,726 5 p.c. = 38,750 28,976 388,177
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 363,177
Contingencies res. appears, £120,000.. 483,177
1947.. 71,043 7fp.c.= 60,062 10,981 494,158
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 484,158
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 459,158
1948.. 75,665 9 p.c. = 69,750 5,905 465.063
1949.. 80,194 10 „ „ 77,500 2,694 467,757
1950.. 82,591 20 „ „ 80,000 2,591 470,348
Revaluation of assets, £463,445 .. 933,793
Reserves capitalised, £425,000 .. 508,793
1951.. 102,887 20 p.c. = 81,250 21,637 530,430
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 520,430
This big island-trading organisation con-
sists of the parent holding co. and a
score, or thereabouts, of subsidiaries. For
the most part, the curtain is kept drawn
over the figures of the offshoots. The
outsider therefore knows little of the real
position. Recent events, however, indi-
cate that it is a lot better than the parent’s
accounts alone show. Profits of sub-
sidiaries are taken into the parent’s books
only to the extent of dividends received,
and the history of the business suggests
that there has always been more wheat
in the ear than the eye could see. Hence
the scrip has proved a satisfactory holding
proposition, and there is nothing to sug-
gest that it will be otherwise in the future,
though benefits might be more widely
spaced than in the past
It was in 1914 that the Carpenters laid
the foundations of the undertaking, on
which they built patiently and solidly for
the next 20 years. Then things went along
with a rush. Shareholders put up
£473,333 of fresh capital, which brought
with it £83,875 of share premiums, dur-
ing the six years to mid-1939. War inter-
rupted a flow of 10 p.c. divs.; but the
co.’s Fiji, insurance, shipping and other
interests kept the pot boiling, and a steady
5 p.c. was paid for the five years to 1946,
followed by 7|, 9, 10 and two lots of 20
p.c. to the close of last accounts.
During the war and after more cash
was accumulated than the board could find
employment for in the business. So, in
September, 1948, 10s. per £1 share was
returned, reducing paid capital to
£400,000, and that without impairing the
earning capacity of the business. Last
term £25,000 was called up on the con-
tribs., making them fully paid, and, just
before the books were ruled off, a one-
for-one issue of gift-scrip (£425,000) lifted
capital to £850,000. The gift was made
from a reserve of £463,445 created by
writing up the book value of shares in
subsidiaries by a like amount.
Last term’s £102,887 (up £20,296) of
profit was equal to 12.1 p.c. on capital as
it now stands, and a better showing is
anticipated at next balance. For the first
half of the current term an interim 3d.,
plus l|d. bonus, making 4jd. per share,
is payable on March 31. That is at the
rate of 15 p.c. p.a., or 30 p.c. p.a. on
capital as it stood before the gift. On
capital as it now stands 15 p.c. will call
for £127,500, or £24,613 more profit than
was shown last year. The general drift
in the sharemarket, however, has car-
ried the price of the f.-p. ss. shares down
from 21s. 6d. following the bonus-share
issue to 15s. 9d. last week. At the lower
figure the return is a satisfactory 4.8 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div, basis. Visibly net tan-
gible cover is Bs. Id. per share.
Here is the financial set-up so far as


Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
CORRIE & CO.
Donglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
PROGRESS
4
Every year a bonus year.
* Prompt settlement of claims.
'• All classes of Assurances transacted*
For service and satisfaction effect
all your assurances through the
AUSTRALIAN
ASSURAHCi COMPANY 1115
HUtITIR. AND BIIG-H STREE.Tf. SYDNEY.
toornaiaud to Quundaad, 189>t
TOLD BY BELL’S
NO. 7
S 3
i
W (1$
l«. f i'j.'L '*X '" N 'v/ (iiii'Sj&S,
Traitor’s
Reward
During the seven years war between
Sweden and Denmark (1563-1570) a
Dane invader named Peter Gylderstierne,
a friend of King Frederick II of Den-
mark, was so impressed by the bells of a
Swedish church that he determined to carry them off as
trophies. The problem was how to get them down from the
belfry undamaged. None of the vanquished patriots would
help until one crafty peasant volunteered on condition that
his wife and children should be provided for. To this Peter
agreed. So the peasant made two huge mounds of sand for
the bells to fall on and then cut the ropes that held them.
When he went to claim his reward, Peter said ‘ Yes, I will
provide handsomely for your family, but you, a traitor to
your country, shall hang in place of the bells’. And he did.
Talking of bells, when you want a smooth, mature Scotch
Whisky—ring for Bell's, the good old whisky 1 \
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Distilled and blended by
ARTHUR BELL * SONS LTD.
Distillers, of Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
AFORE
GO -
OVi U
DAYIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Situation Vacant-
Assistant Mine Manager
Required for Protheroe Lead Mine in
Geraldton district, W.A. Mine equipped
with new gravity flotation plant treating
ore from cut and fill sloping and develop-
ing lower levels. Qualifications required:
University degree, School of Mines diploma
or equivalent, plus experience and Mine
Manager’s Certificate of Competency for
W.A. Mines. Knowledge of milling de-
sirable but not essential. Single accommo-
dation £3 10s. per week or unfurnished
house 80s. week, plus free power and
water, in pleasant farming district close
to beaches. Immediate duties. Attractive
salary. Removal expenses refunded. Re-
plies to General Manager, Anglo-West-
ralian Mining Pty. Limited, Big Bell,
W.A.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKREBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BAEREKE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2p), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
m
5
or carefree
trave
A
• ••
%o
4
o.
a
"5*
Commonwealth Bank Travellers’ Cheques
provide complete safety for your funds, while
the knowledge that your money is safe adds to
the joys of travel and leaves you free to concen-
trate on business or pleasure.
Commonwealth Bank Travellers’ Cheques
are issued in £5 denomination and may be
cashed free of inland exchange at any Branch
of any Bank in Australia, and are readily
accepted by principal tourist bureaux, transport
offices, hotels, etc.
As your signature and counter-signature arc
necessary on all cheques before they may be
cashed, they are safer than money. For carefree
travel use Commonwealth Bank Travellers’
Cheques, obtainable at any Branch.
OTHER HELPFUL. COMMONWEALTH BANK
SERVICES INCLUDE CHEQUE ACCOUNTS,
LETTERS OF CREDIT, OVERDRAFTS, INTEREST.
BEARING DEPOSITS, HOUSING LOANS,
FINANCE FOR PRIMARY PRODUCTION, EXPORT
AND IMPORT CREDITS, SAFE CUSTODY.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
• THE BANK YOU OWN*
Serving the People in all the States
CG8.24-S*
uni \\
w
ntiyj
Wi
'^d
z
i
w
frusabev
m
m
iesff
CLOTH
j
mm
*5
Ki
sr
» i
m
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
the parent’s own balance-sheet
figures show it:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. 775,000 400,000 849,997
Sundry creditors,
etc. .. 335,192 365,129 271,064
Tax provision 79,200 87,661 76,933
War damage cr. 85,480 85,480 92,100
Shipping, free-
holds, plant etc. 1,201 18,574 18,500
Investments,
etc. .. 927,987 920,615 1,386,338
Stocks .. 51,548 42,167 55,809
Debtors, etc... 162,142 171,574 118,987
Cash, etc. .. 638,501 295,684 282,140
The amount coming to sundry
creditors includes £169,414 due
to subsidiaries. Cash, etc., is
made up of Commonwealth
bonds (£232,058) and cash
(£50,082). So the board still has
plenty of ready money with
which to take advantage of any
opportunity that might arise for
further expansion of the co.'s
interests.
Although there are many
cross-currents in the general
situation, the outlook for island
traders seems bright enough at
the moment. The British
authorities have entered into
long-term contracts for the
purchase of copra and other
island produce at satisfactory
prices, subject to periodical
adjustment.
Paringa Mining
According to cabled informa-
tion, this London-controlled
co. whose mine is at Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), made a loss of £A40,460
on mining account for the year
to Aug., 31, 1951, before charg-
ing expenditure on mine develop-
ment. Interest, divs., etc., turned
in £A7OOO, reducing the net loss
to £A33,460. Total expenditure
on development and exploration
to date is to be written off,
and the book-value of invest-
ments is to be reduced to
£36,155. The estimated cost of
keeping the properties and plant
in first-class order is £A11,875
p.a., which is expected to be partly
offset by savings in administra-
tion at the London end and by
the anticipated return from in-
vestments, put at £A5312.
Meanwhile negotiations are in
train for sale of the property and
plant, and the board is on the
hunt for a new mining venture,
gold or base metals, but nothing
worthwhile has yet turned up.
Rising costs and a drop in
grade of ore brought the 95,000-
ton-p.a. mill to a standstill in
Jan., 1951. At end Aug., 1950,
there was some 91,800 tons ore,
averaging 5.08dwt., measured up
in the mine, but it was mostly
in high-grade pillars that can-
not be extracted at present.
Testing and development of the
Mt. Charlotte property, Kal-
goorlie, in which the co. was
jointly interested with Wiluna,
ceased over a year ago, when a
trial crushing of 18,000 tons
averaged only 2.lsdwt.
Accounts for 1951 are not yet
available in Australia. At end
Aug., 1951, the mine stood at
£537,962, plant £862,107, de-
velopment and exploration
£8145,845, investments
£8110,373, current assets
£887,112. Creditors, etc.,
figured for £810,437. Paid
capital is £8270,440 in Is. stock
units, now priced on the Aus-
tralian market at lid. each.
During its life the co paid divs.
totalling £8776,121,


m
■
PSO/52
Introducing the
Comet9o
jjSj:
90
LEY
A NEW CRUISER WEIGHT CHASSIS BY LEYLAND
Designed, engineered and built by Leyland Motors
Limited, Britain's largest manufacturers of heavy
duty commercial vehicles.
10ft. Sin., 14ft. 2in. and 15ft. Sin. wheelbases. ★ Gross ratings
up to 11 tons 12 cwts. rigid vehicle, 17 tons 17 cwts. articulated.
90 B.H.P. Diesel Engine. Flexibly mounted. ★ Maximum body
length 18ft. 34in. wide frame. Five-point cab mounting.
ic Powerful brakes. Area 480 sq. in.
MOTORS LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 153-167 George Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
BRANCHES AND AGENTS: New-
castle: D. L. Norton, 434 King
Street. Brisbane Depot: 47G Adel-
aide Street. Melbourne Depot:
Cnr. Courtney and Villiers Streets,
Nth. Melbourne. Hobart: H. 0.
Heathorn & Co. Ltd., 53-68 Bathurst
Street. Adelaide: Flinders Motors
Limited, 62 Currie Street. Perth:
West End Motors Limited, 1056 Hay
Street
{"""mail this coupon
I LEYLAND MOTORS LTD.,
■ 153-167 George St., Bedfern, K.S.W.
■ Please send me full information, price.
I specification, performance figures on the
I Leyland Comet ‘9o.’
I NAME
■ ADDRESS
L———— —— 1
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Economic Melting-pot
The melting - away of our
London funds over the past
eight months—the drop in the
Commonwealth Bank’s holding
of gold and balances abroad
since June of last year has been
from £720 million to £320
million (there are some other re-
serves also, only disclosed at
long intervals) —has prompted
Canberra to introduce the
licensing system to nearly all im-
ports. Under this licensing,
according to the type of goods,
some imports will be cut by 40
p.c., others by 80 p.c., even from
the sterling area.
The flood of sterling-area
goods into Australia over the
past eight months has been
entirely without precedent. But
it was thought by most people
that imports by now would have
started to fall away in volume.
Apparently the Commonwealth
Bank looked into the future (its
crystal ball or telescopic-sights
put it into a position of advan-
tage for doing this) and found
prospects to be otherwise.
Already our wharves were
stacked with imported merchan-
dise. Stores were full and ships
were tied-up in harbors waiting
to unload.
The drain on our London re-
serves could not go on. What
would not correct itself
“naturally” had to be put right
by other means. Hence the
drastic action (“temporary”)
which was forced upon the
Federal Government last week-
end. But it is to be hoped that
the detail of the restrictions will
be handled expeditiously and
efficiently. Australia wants no
return of the “Division of
Import Procurement.”
Prospects of substanial de-
fence orders being handed to the
electrical and textile industries
have given some heart to busi-
ness circles which up to now
have been able to see only the
restrictive side of the Govern-
ment’s credit and Budget policy.
These factors, and a sorting-out
of industrial shares according to
their prospective staying-power
in economic conditions of the
kind we are now passing through,
were responsible for the recent
rally in a number of industrial
investments on the Stock Ex-
change, the most noticeable of
which were in the textile group,
where Bradford Cotton and
Patons and Baldwins (to both of
which attention was drawn in
B. 27/2/’52) were outstanding in
their recoveries.
This is interim-div, time also,
and the market is doing a bit
of sorting-out according to the
rate (or absence) of the half-
yearly distribution. The 4 p.c.
from F. J. Walker pleased the
market, suggesting, as it did, that
last year’s rate of 9 p.c. might
be maintained. The cut in the
Yarra Falls distribution was
apparently no more than was
expected. But the passing of the
ord. interim by Felt and Textiles
was a disappointment, and the
scrip weakened to its lowest
level for many years. The excep-
tionally good showing by 1.C.1.
for the year to September 30 last
was achieved before the present
business setback occurred, but
the increase in the ord.-div. rate
from p.c. to 7 p.c. suggests
that the board is reasonably con-
fident of the future. Though
not in precisely similar busi-
nesses, the co.’s increasing
volume of turnover may also be
a pointer to what is happening
in the affairs of Drug Houses of
Australia.
The vexed question of the
building trade continues to be
discussed in Canberra and else-
where. Apparently building
societies are to be allowed more
funds than has been the case at
any time during the year so far.
But the whole picture of the
building industry, including that
relating to war-service homes,
needs some clarification.
“Dumping” from Asia?
New Zealanders, from the
Board of Trade downwards,
have cold feet over the prospect
of a cut-price war with low-
wage Asiatic countries of the
Commonwealth if freer trade
were to open the door to a
growing tide of goods which
would leave local manufacturers
and British suppliers gasping.
Maoriland industry couldn’t
stand up to open competition
from industrialists in Kong-
kong, Singapore or India, who
qualify for preferential rights in
the Dominion market, and so
far no one knows what can be,
or should be, done to meet this
potential challenge, which seems
not far off. The preferential
system wasn’t framed to cover
the situation, and isn’t flexible
enough, as it stands. Can it be
recast, remodelled or reinforced
by other measures?
These are questions New
Zealand will have to answer, if
it can, but the problem isn’t
peculiarly its own. Australia,
Britain and other countries with
high wages, high standards of
living and elevated price-levels
are all in much the same boat,
and might have to put their
heads together, if they haven't
done so already, to find some
way of engaging safely in trade
with sterling - area countries
which have unlimited reserves
of cheap labor to work long
hours on mass-production lines.
For its part. New Zealand
isn’t keen to be the first to crack
this tough nut, but would like
a lead in reaching a solution,
even if a remedy produced by
others had to be adapted to its
own special needs. The Board
of Trade, which is now in
control of M.L.’s imports and
tariffs, is naturally approaching
the issue warily, and manufac-
turers’ groups are putting a lot
of research into it. For instance,
footwear manufacturers, who
have had a monopoly of the
market for adult leather boots
and shoes since import-control
was clamped down in December,
1938, have been engaged on an
intensive fact-finding investiga-
tion for months as they make
ready for a B. of T. inquiry to
decide whether control over their
section of trade should be given
a new lease of life, modified or
swept away. However, this is
only one of many aspects that
will have to be considered in
relation to the Dominion’s cost-
price structure and its expensive
Welfare State.
New Zealand is all in
favor of helping along the
trade of the Commonwealth,
particularly of hard - pressed
John Bull, within the framework
of its three guiding aims—to
maintain Imperial preference, to
safeguard the interests of efficient
N.Z. manufacturing industries,
and to protect the Dominion’s
balance of payments. These are
sound post-Ottawa principles
which should be good for a long
while yet.
The Search for Oil
“Petro”: In “Kerogen’s”
comments (B. 5/3/’52) on my
article on Lakes Entrance, there
are implications to which I
cannot subscribe and which, in
fairness, should be refuted.
Firstly, I think that it should
be understood that no sedi-
mentary area is completely
devoid of oil potentialities. In
fact, I will go so far as to say
that the total absence of traces
of oil in a sedimentary series is
very rarely encountered—these
traces are often missed, of
course, even by the experienced
oil geologist who does not waste
overmuch time in searching for
them; when found by the lay-
man, however, they arc usually
given an entirely unwarranted
importance.
Secondly, I agree, without
reservation, that the discovery
of oil on the Australian main-
land or adjacent territories
would be a matter of prime
importance, although I fail to
see how the chances of discovery
have improved as a result of
recent operations. The apathy
of the Australian public to wild-
cat oil schemes is understandable
after the way in which the
investors’ funds have been
squandered by small companies,
without tangible result, over the
last half-century; but “big
business”—if, by that term,
“Kerogen” means the major oil
companies can hardly be
accused of lack of interest or
willingness to spend money
where there was any reasonable
hope of a return.
I am not enamored with “big
business” as a whole, but long
experience has taught me that
the oil game, in its present stage
of development, can be properly
played only by organisations
with large staffs possessing highly
specialised training and long
specialised field experience in
petroleum-finding.
Australia is one of the very
few countries which has
attempted to compete with such
organisations by employing civil
servants and public funds in
such a speculative enterprise.
Whether the cost of the search
for oil by the Bureau of Mineral
Resources ■ — “not sufficiently
staffed or equipped to do justice
to the effort itself”—is warranted
or not should be determined by
an inquiry untrammelled by
departmental o r political
interests.
Personally, I consider (and
I am by no means alone in the
belief) that the function of the
bureau should be limited to the
collation, on a Commonwealth
basis, of the fine work on solid
mineral resources which has, and
is, in spite of inadequate staffs
and finance, being carried out
by the several State Departments
of Mines. There is such a vast
amount of exploratory, develop-
ment and research work to be
done that die “abundant
evidence” of its commercial
value now available is but an
insignificant fraction of what
there is still to learn of the
metalliferous wealth of Australia.


established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oiy
osuixrvA]y
(AW 1 ®
»*>?
TRACE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
,AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Why Pick on the
British?
Americans do not always see
eye to eye with British policy
at home or abroad. The U.S.
is a nearly self-sufficient con-
tinent. What many Americans
forget is that Great Britain is
an island smaller than Oregon,
into which is crowded a popu-
lation of 50 million about
one-third that of the U.S.
In March Reader’s Digest
Sir Gladwyn Jebb, U.K. Dele-
gate to the U.N., gives an
answer to complaints heard in
the U.S. that Britain is letting
her allies down.
Get your Reader’s Digest
today in the new natural-color
cover. 32 articles of lasting
interest, condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WALTER HAROLD DONNELLY for-
merly of 76 Victoria Street Malabar. —
TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE MARGARET
DONNELLY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 715 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Cowrt King
Street Sydney by the 26th day of May
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from RITCHIE AND
ARNOLD, Solicitors, 5-7 O’Connell Street,
4ydnDOUGH AN, Registrar.
COARD
actyth/cis
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of business it record*
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (AusLJ
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Essential Service
Essential to trade development is a Banking
Service, both efficient and prepared to meet each
new opportunity.
Built on the resources and experience of two
Banks, each of which has contributed to Aus-
tralia’s growth for more than a century, A.N.Z.
Bank services are expressly designed to assist in
the promotion of trade.
Today, A.N.Z. Bank is preparing to meet the
needs of tomorrow.
A’N-Z
W
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA. Established 1835.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA. Est. 1837.
Over 700 branches and agencies throughout Aus-
tralia, and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world.
THE BALL BEARING
PRINCIPLE
Applied to the
Pulverising of Fuel
The ball bearing principle is as essential to
a pulveriser as is the wheel and axle for
transportation.
The grinding element, being designed in the
form of a giant ball-race, ensures that the
balls remain truly spherical irrespective of
the amount of wear they receive.
Cuts power consumption in half.
Th.ese features are only to
be found in the B. & W.
Type ”E" Mill.
msam
i
Top Right:
B. & W. Type "E" Mill
of 11 tons per hour
nominal capacity.
Centre:
Grinding element of
B. & W. Type "E" Mill.
Above:
The large door in the upper half of
Type "I" Mill allows free access to
grinding lone, where there are no
cision parts requiring lubrication.
the
the
pro-
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Sfeam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original*
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
At Westminster, sad to say,
there are no signs of agreement,
even over essentials. A united
Government faces a divided
Opposition which, however, is
united in one particular; that it
will continually and relentlessly
embarrass, obstruct and fight the
Government on every issue,
valid or otherwise.
As well as the harsh and over-
taking realities of the economic
situation and the Budget,
there are controversial points,
notably the Iron and Steel
Bill, the charges under the
Health Service and Mr.
Churchill’s American comments
on the Far East.
A model solution to these
internecine troubles might have
been for the Government to have
met the Opposition and agreed
upon the issues of mutual im-
portance. But the Ministers
probably realise that, even if
they were to reach a gentlemen’s
agreement with the moderates,
the Labor Whips would be un-
able to control their many
recalcitrants.
So the Government steadfastly
goes its own way trying not to
get rattled. The conclusion is
inescapable. Britain is still hav-
ing to pay a high cost for the
peculiar manifestations of
Socialist theories.
A revealing insight into the
distant background of the Labor
party emerges from a Fabian re-
search undertaken by Mr. W.
Fienburgh, M.P., and three
Mancunians. Instead of making
the customary “intellectual”
approach, so often with head in
the clouds, they went down to
ground-level and attended party
meetings in nine Manchester
wards over three months. They
found that the members were,
broadly, one-half working-class,
one-third “between,” and one-
sixth solidly middle-class. The
former fill the major offices and
do most of the work, while the
latter supply the “intellectual-
ism,”
The general picture is one of
congenial and harmless fellow-
ship—children’s parties, outings,
working-men’s clubs and the
like. What is revealing is the
established fact that the strength
of conviction in Socialism varies
inversely as the social standing.
The working-class are not
strongly opposed to rearmament,
are more willing to ban the
Communist party than their
“betters,” are not enthusiastic
about nationalisation and ex-
press no fear of renewed un-
employment. Even less dogmatic
was a “random sample” of
ordinary rank-and-file members.
One conclusion reached by the
Fabians is that “Their [party
members’] interest turns to
politics only when this is forced
upon them by local conditions
or by a group of more enthusi-
astic members,”
The “more enthusiastic,” pre-
sumably, are the “intellectual”
sixth, which may explain so
many apparent anomalies —why
wealthy scions, prosperous com-
pany directors and brainy dons
get so worked up over the fate
of the working-classes.
Paltry Politics
Setting aside the vehement
party clashes and conflicts that
have gained such furious
momentum since Mr. Butler
announced his retrenchment
measures, the impression re-
mains that most people feel they
have been let off comparatively
lightly. This attitude may in
part be due to past experiences
of crises being met by half-
measures, but it can hardly be
reassuring to a Government
which has pronounced both by
word and deed that it means to
get to the root of the trouble.
While a time must come, and
soon, when every household
must learn from painful experi-
ence that the sterling crisis is its
own, there remains a numbed
perplexity that calls for en-
lightenment with something like
the clarity, inspiration and sense
of high purpose that Mr.
Churchill gave to his war-time
speeches. For so able a man,
Mr. Butler can be oddly naive.
It has been remarked, more in
sympathy than in criticism, that
neither his House of Commons
speech on the sterling crisis nor
his later broadcast was a model
of forceful delivery.
The pace of the drive to save
the pound was clearly set by the
Commonwealth Finance
Ministers’ Conference. Mr.
Butler’s measures are interpreted
as no more than first-aid and
are necessarily confined to the
limitations of departmental
estimates. His decision to ad-
vance the Budget by six weeks
to March 11 has few precedents
and marks the sense of urgency
behind the drive. Budgetary
problems, moreover, will be en-
hanced by the fact that the
Chancellor’s cuts in themselves
create inflationary pressure.
The drastic cut of imports and
the reduction by one-sixth of
deliveries to the home market
of engineering plant, machinery,
etc., are held to be the most im-
portant. British industry, in the
face of growing foreign com-
petition, must needs suffer, but,
so sorry is our plight, there is
no alternative. Equally un-
fortunate and unavoidable is the
need to draw upon stocks of
consumer goods.
In the fight to save the £, a
factor of first importance is out-
side opinion. Oversea comment
has been full of praise. The
race may be against time, but
such words as these (from a
leader in the “New York Herald
Tribune”) are most reassuring:
“Americans who admire political
courage and broad economic
perspective may well ask if our
own country, facing the dangers
of inflation, does not have a
budgetary lesson to learn from
the Butler example.”
Nol-so-brief Chronicle
Mr. John Parker, urbane and
energetic hon. sec. of the
London Critics’ Circle, has been
writing about the theatre since
1892, when he was 17. He com-
piled the first Who’s Whp of the
Theatre in 1912, Two world
wars interrupted the regularity
of succeeding editions but not his
labors. A setback far more dis-
turbing to his work occurred 25
years ago, when “burglars,”
representing theatrical people
who disliked having their dates
of birth set down in cold print,
forced entry into his home and
took away his records, leaving
him with 18 months’ solid work
to make up arrears.
The eleventh issue of this
enormous book (it runs to 2000
pages) has recently been pub-
lished by Pitman. No words of
wonder can express Mr. Parker’s
resources of patience, method,
industry and exploration. The
3000-odd biographies of stage-
folk prominent on both sides of
the Atlantic include 400 new
names (among them several Aus-
tralians) and make fascinating
and nostalgic reading.
There’s a good deal more to
this invaluable book of reference
than the title suggests. Tables
give the genealogical trees of
nearly 100 theatrical families.
All the notable productions from
the earliest times to the end of
1950 are listed (one can, for
example, trace “Hamlet” from
Burbage to Redgrave).
Theatrical wills, from A 1
Jolson’s £1,750,000 to Zieg-
feld’s $1,000,000 deficit are
listed alphabetically and in
descending order of amount. A
new feature is a list of stage
biographies and reminiscences
from the time of Colley Cibber
onwards. One even finds a list
of the visits paid to the theatre
by the late King during his reign.
The task of keeping accurate
and up-to-date with such shift-
ing material as plays and players
cannot be a light one for a man
of 75, even with an assistant in
the person of his son. The real
wonder is how he finds time to
attend first nights and pursue his
hobby, which he cites as “collect-
ing theatrical literature.” For
his true vocation has no con-
nection wijh Shaftesbury
Avenue, It lies somewhere in
the City.


Rachel Henning
Postscripts
THE conclusion of “The
Letters of Rachel Hen-
ning” in The Bulletin
was followed by a shower
of congratulations and appre-
ciations, and such letters
continue to flow in. (Norman
Lindsay and Mrs. G. F.
Dampney, Rachel’s niece, have
also received scores of letters.)
They have been written from all
States and from New Zealand,
and the latest mails have been
bringing comment from
Britain, the United States and
other parts of the world. Some
Australians became acquainted
with Rachel in the reading-
rooms of London clubs; others
from Bulletins received abroad
from friends in Australia.
Another lady, writing from the
British Embassy in Tokyo, says
that she first caught up with the
letters in a Bulletin which she
happened to pick up in the
lounge of the Marunouchi Hotel.
From Canada a great-
grandson of William Cox, who
built the road over the Blue
Mountains, has written: “You
remember in the letters (1861)
where Rachel is staying at
Bathurst with her sister Amy,
the one who married the
banker? She speaks of visiting
old Mrs. Piper, ‘who lived in a
pretty veranda-house, with a
grove of wattle-trees round it,
which were a mass of yellow
blossoms and scented the whole
air. Here we partook of biscuits,
which tasted strongly of
turpentine.’
“I know that place as well as
the room I am typing this in.
Old Mrs. Piper was my great-
grandmother. My own father
was born in that Souse. I stayed
there with a later generation of
Pipers.”
Nearly every person writing
about Rachel Henning wants to
know whether the letters will be
reprinted in book form. They
will be. Arrangements are now
being made to put the whole of
the letters published in 20-odd
issues of The Bulletin in be-
tween covers, with, probably,
reproductions of most of
Norman Lindsay’s superb pen-
drawings. When the book is
ready a further announcement
will be made in The Bulletin.
Other readers have been
prompted by the history of
Rachel Henning to go over her
tracks to some extent. “The
Peach Trees,” near Stroud, was
found to be still called “The
Peach Trees.” And Springfield,
near Fig Tree (a short way from
Port Kembla), the home Rachel
and her husband made for them-
selves out of the native bush, is
still known by that name.
Berkeley, the home of the
Jenkins family (with whom
Rachel was so friendly), near
Lake Illawarra, has been
demolished, but it has given its
name to the district. The
Jenkinses have long since left the
area, but a fourth-generation
member of the family lives in
Sydney.
In Sydney, Clifton, the home
of the Tuckers, and at which
the wedding-reception following
the marriage of Biddulph and
Emily Tucker was held in 1872,
still stands at 12 Carabella-street,
Kirribilli, but is now called
Astra. And Christ Church,
Lavender Bay, where the wed-
ding ceremony took place,
remains a charming edifice,
though now slightly cut off from
Kirribilli by the Harbor Bridge
approaches.
Linton, the home which Mr.
Tucker presented to his daughter
upon her marriage to Biddulph,
is still to be found in Kirribilli.
Canterbury House, of which
Biddulph, the Hedgelands and
Rachel were all so fond, has
gone (see a separate item on this
page); but Passy still stands at
Hunter’s Hill, rather crowded
around with cottages of recent
vintage, but with the air of
another age about it. Ermington
Park has been pulled down to
make way for the Ryde-
Parramatta golf-course.
Elsewhere on this page is given
an official summary of the be-
ginnings of Exmoor Station, in
North Queensland, where
Rachel’s real interest in Aus-
tralia began and where she met
Deighton Taylor, whom she
later married. A present-day
map of the area shows the
Broken River and Bowen River,
the Blackwall Range (with Tent
Hill, a landmark on trips to the
Broken River in Rachel’s days,
at the northern end of it), the
plains over which she used to
gallop, and names commemorat-
ing members of Biddulph
Henning’s staff sprinkled here
and there—Devlin and Beckford
are two familiar examples.
Apparently Exmoor home-
stead stood on what is
now called Exmoor Creek
(Rachel called it “Station
[Reproduced by courtesy of the Royal Australian Historical Society.]
A distant view of Canterbury House, Canterbury (Sydney), which Rachel Henning described
in 1871 as being “about the most charming country house I ever saw, even in England.”
She went on to describe it: “About half a mile from the Ashfield station you come to a
white gate which brings you into a drive through what would be called an open wood in
England, and is called open bush here. The drive is planted with firs at the sides, and
well gravelled and kept, in half a mile more there is an open gate, and the road goes on
through beautiful flowering shrubs, turns round a bed of perfectly dazzling azaleas and camellias,
and there is the house.
“A very pretty house it is, raised on a slope of green turf, with a double row of white steps
leading to the balcony and door. Inside it is very comfortable—a dining-room, a drawing-
room, and billiard-room, and another little room, and, upstairs, five large bedrooms.
“There is a large kitchen garden, vineyard, etc., and any amount of lawn and flower-
garden. I never saw such quantities of flowers anywhere. Just in front of the house the drive
goes round an immense bed of azaleas, camellias and rhododendrons. There are, besides, roses
and camellias and geraniums everywhere. The azaleas were in full bloom when I left. A
mass of white, purple and red.”
The picture is reproduced from a painting by Conrad Martens (1801-1878), who derived
most of his income from painting pictures of large N.S.W. homes and from the sale of his
views of Sydney. It appears to have been painted many years before Rachel Henning
visited Canterbury House.
Creek”), eight or nine miles
from the junction of the Bowen
and Broken Rivers, and sixty-
three miles as the crow flies due
south of Bowen.
Exmoor Run
From J. P. Harvey, Surveyor-
General, Department of Public
Lands, Brisbane : —
Exmoor Run was apparently
the unofficial name for a group
of conterminous runs known as
Beckford Downs, Devlin Downs,
Dartmoor, Wallagy, Stockton,
Marlborough, Terara, Bulli,
Glen Arthur, Appin and Mount
Lawson. The head-station for
the group was known as
Exmoor.
On September 9, 1861,
Edmund Biddulph Henning took
up Beckford Downs (area, sixty
square miles), Devlin Downs
(fifty square miles) and
Dartmoor (fifty square miles).
On July 5, 1862, occupation-
licenses were granted to
Henning, the fees being £l5 for
Beckford Downs and £l2 10s.
each for the remainder, A lease
for each of the three runs was
granted to Henning on January
1, 1863.
Wallagy, Stockton, Marl-
borough, Terara, Bulli, Glen
Arthur, Appin and Mount
Lawson Runs were taken up by
George Henry Princhard (of
Marlborough, Rockhampton) on
January 14, 1861, and were
acquired by Edmund Biddulph
Henning on March 11, 1863.
In the same year Henning
transferred Wallagy, Stockton,
Marlborough and Terara Runs
to Henry Prince, William
Anderson Ogg and Edward
Goddard as partners. Glen
Arthur and Appin Runs were
forfeited by E. B. Henning in
1869, and Devlin Downs was
transferred to Frederick H.
Dangar. In 1870, Bulii and
Mount Lawson Runs were trans-
ferred to William Tucker, who,
in 1876, purchased Dartmoor
Run at auction. In 1876, Beck-
ford Downs was purchased at
auction by George Cresswell
Crump.
The area of each run taken
up by G. H. Princhard was
twenty-five square miles, and the
license-fee was £l2 10s. per
annum, licenses being granted to
G. H. Princhard at January 1,
1862.
The present Exmoor holding
was formed in 1929, and includes
part of the country originally
held as Appin, Bulli, Mount
Lawson and Glen Arthur Runs.
Exmoor Holding is held by Dr.
J. H. Dalrymple, of Mackay, by
whom the holding was taken up
on January 14, 1930.
Critique
From T. Jasper, Roseville
(N.S.W.): —
Surprising (at first sight) the
interest aroused amongst
Bulletin readers by “The
Letters of Rachel Henning.”
Many of the letters seemed to
this critic somewhat tiresome.
Furthermore, Rachel revealed
certain shortcomings, both in
character and as chronicler. She
was incredibly snobbish by
present standards. She was lack-
ing in imagination, and almost
devoid of intellectual curiosity.
Her descriptive powers were
weak, and she seemed incapable
of those deft touches that make
a character memorable.
Yet there is more to be said.
Rachel Henning was a gifted
observer. What she saw she set
down (and all along it must be
recalled she wrote for private
eyes only) in clear and simple
prose. There does emerge, at
last, an absorbing and authentic
picture of Australia’s early days,
presented in a manner, and from
an angle, unique in our litera-
ture. Further, too, if Rachel
Henning was incapable of effec-
tive characterisation, one
character does appear, lifesize
and memorable, from her letters
—the picture, quite uncon-
sciously presented, of herself,
As the letters proceeded the
reader could not avoid develop-
ing feelings of affection for the
writer —her cheerfulness, her
loyalty and her fortitude. And,
as regards the latter, it is impos-
sible to escape the conclusion
that Rachel faced difficulty and
discomfort not only with
courage but with a secret
relish. Despite her blue blood
she was kin to the pioneers.
One is glad that in the end
she got her “Mr. Taylor,” and
for his part he received not only
a loving and loyal wife but also
a woman of more than social
distinction.
George Hedgeland
From A. R. Jones, Under-
secretary for Lands, N.S.W. : —
I have no doubt that very
many of your readers have
expressed to you the pleasure
that has been afforded them by
the publication, in serial form,
of “The Letters of Rachel
Henning.” The Department of
Lands is happy to join them in
saying “thank you” for making
available for general informa-
tion these intensely-interesting
letters from the century-old pen
of a very talented woman.
They have been closely fol-
lowed in the department because
of their great historic interest
and value. Rachel Henning’s
excellent pen-pictures of earlier
times and places have been
greatly appreciated.
We had more than a passing
interest in the mention of
George Hedgeland as a Gov-
ernment surveyor employed on
what was regarded as highly-
remunerative work of alignment
surveys. The old records dis-
close that George Caleb Hedge-
land was appointed as a licensed
surveyor in the Department of
Lands on July 14, 1871, and was
engaged in that year in the
survey of Bligh-street, Newtown.
Almost the whole of his time
in the department, up to his
retirement on December 31,
1887, was occupied in alignment
surveys in Ashfield, Burwood,
Petersham, Newtown, Marrick-
ville, Leichhardt, Randwick,
Waverley, Ryde, Alexandria,
Paddington and Prospect and
Sherwood.
And then, under date of
August 30, 1877, Rachel
Henning mentions that her
nephew, Upcott Sloman, had
come down from his home at
Bathurst at the age of sixteen to
take up the profession of survey-
ing, and that “Mr. Hedgeland
would be able to help him so
much.”
It was pleasing to recall that
Thomas Biddulph Upcott
Sloman entered the service of
the Department of Lands on
December 1, 1878, and subse-
quently occupied the position of
district surveyor. He was a
highly-esteemed officer, serving
the department well and faith-
fully for a period of forty-seven
years. At the age of ninety-one
he is living in retirement at his
home in Lindfield.
Conterbury House
From Mrs. Henry Evans,
Toorak (Vic.) : —
I was especially interested
when Rachel Henning mentioned
going to stay with her sister
Annie at Canterbury House,
Ashfield.
My mother’s cousin, Mrs.
Goodlet, lived at Canterbury
House when I was a schoolgirl
just before the First World War,
and my sister and I used often
to spend our school holidays
there. Colonel Goodlet owned
the house,
I would so much like to know
if Annie Henning and her
husband, George Hedgeland,
built the house, and if Colonel
Goodlet bought it from them.
My father, John Harper, came
out from Scotland with his
parents, brothers and sister in
1856. He was eight years old.
My mother, Elizabeth Forbes,
travelled out from Scotland in
the Great Britain, which, I
suppose, was the same ship as
the one the Hennings originally
came out in.
She arrived in Melbourne in
1870, aged 10 years, and died
last year at the age of 91.
[The district in which Canter-
bury House was built was
originally granted to the Rev.
Richard Johnson and others.
Johnson called it Canterbury
Vale. His grant extended from
Liverpool-road to Cook’s River.
Johnson sold his interest to
William Cox about 1800. Fol-
lowing Cox’s insolvency, the
estate was sold under instruc-
tions from the trustees in bank-
ruptcy at auction to their
treasurer, Robert Campbell, “of
the wharf,” in May, 1803.
It was described as “pleasantly
situated within six miles of
Sydney, and from its extent and
vicinity to town it will become
a most desirable and valuable
freehold property.”
It consisted of the grant of
Richard Johnson and a number
of others, making in all about
900 acres. The price was £525.
In 1800 there had been only a
hut on it.
In July, 1812, part of the pro-
perty was advertised as to be let
for five years, and offered
“house, offices, orchard, garden
and several large paddocks.” In
1841 a portion of the estate,
cut up into three-rood allot-
ments which were advertised as
suitable for immigrants’ homes,
was sold at auction for a total
of £5817.
It was Campbell who appar-
ently built Canterbury House.
(He died in 1846.) His daughter
married a man named Jeffreys,
and the property eventually


Your family’s Security
in the changing world
"Er?
JrS5
i
5n
M
5 D in
s 5Er
8586
£
f n
bn B mr
Iff
fIU
To safeguard the security of
your family in a changing
world, your Will should give
your Executor and Trustee in-
vestment powers and manage-
ment powers that are broad and
flexible,
Unless a Will expressly per-
mits, a Trustee is not allowed,
for example, to take advantage
of the excellent range of
investments covered by shares in leading Companies,
having sound capital structure and a reputation for
good management and a record of good dividends.
As a result your Executor would be prevented from
obtaining the maximum yield from your Estate to
ensure security for your family.
Discretion in such matters can safely be left to
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. It has a wide
experience in handling Estates of many different kinds.
Investment, Industrial and Pastoral.
The Capital and Reserves of the Company,
amounting to over £500,000 provide tangible security
for its integrity. Its uncalled capital of £BOO,OOO is
an additional safeguard.
If you would discuss this subject with one of the
Company’s Senior Officers, write, or telephone B 0377,
and make an appointment.
| TRUST FUNDS TO LEND |
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OT
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN ; J. W. DUNLOP.
H. V. DOUGLASS. Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72.000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT VAGGA WAGGA, TAUWORTH and ORANGE
SCOTMJOT
Dewap'i
n@w®E' "van?!©®
For over one kundred years
.. . tke same distinctive
cliaracter, mellow flavour,
and rick, keart-warming
qualities . . *
DEWAR’S
White Label
SCOTCH WHISKY
A WAR
ME
SOCOIJ
«a>
Prli* Mt&ttl*
so Goia
on*
Pri« Medals
BY APPOINTMENT ...
SCOTCH WHISWMJtSjnUJW*
Munni A»rrwt«s cai*>
>1
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE ACE.
<tohn Dewar & Sons k
DISTILLERS
"nan, Hnjmorkd. S.WI. p Scotland
in.. N£T CONTENTS I PINT. 6EL OZS.
•OAMlffifD WHOLLY DISTILLED.MATURED JUID BUNDED.IN
homwsavw
three
fds
famous
companions
mmm
H
THE JOWETT JUPITER
“Jupiter litre Sports Con-
vertible with glass side win-
dows. First and second in the
1951 Monte Carlo Rally,
litre class.”
m
THE JOWETT JAVELIN
“Javelin 1\ litre full 5-seater
Family Saloon. Fourth in the
1951 Monte Carlo Rally, 1i
litre class”
■i
THE BRADFORD
Available with station waggon
body.
THESE three have come from the same famous Yorkshire stable of Jowett
Cars Ltd., who have been making cars for nearly half a century. Each, in its
own class, has an outstanding performance. Thus the Jowett range caters for
every taste. The Jupiter is the fast litre sporting car. The Javelin is a
remarkably comfortable, well sprung and economical family car with a very
lively performance. The Bradford Commercial range, available with station
waggon body, is known all over the world for its amazing economy and sturdy
reliability.
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Liberty Motors (Aust.)
Pty. Lid., Melbourne: Redman Motors Ltd., Brisbane; B.E.A. Distributors Ltd.,
Adelaide; Western Motor Co. Ply. Lid., Perth; Donald Gorrmge Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Made In Britain by JOWETT CARS LIMITED, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire.
passed to them. It was from the
Jeffreys family, it would appear,
that Biddulph Henning and the
Hedgelands rented Canterbury
House.
Colonel Goodlet, of the firm
of Goodlet and Smith, afterwards
leased the house, and later
bought it. It was in the Goodlet
estate until the grounds were
subdivided and the house
demolished, apparently in the
early 1930’5, Goodlet-street,
Canterbury, today stands on
what was part of the grounds.
A painting of Canterbury
House, by Conrad Martens,
hangs in History House, Sydney.
The painting was donated by Mr.
Jeffreys, of Delegate (N.S.W.), a
grandson of Robert Campbell.]
Springfield
From W. Parkinson, Wol-
longong ( N.S.W .); —
I was delighted with “The
Letters of Rachel Henning,”
more so as I knew Deighton
Taylor, one of the persons men-
tioned in the letters, also Dr.
Cox’s wife.
I was in the post-office at
Wollongong in 1890, and made
up the mailbag for Deighton
Taylor every morning and for-
warded it to Fig Tree P. 0., a
mile from his home, and again
in the afternoon it would be
returned to Wollongong in the
mail from Fig Tree.
I often saw the gentleman in
Wollongong with his wife in
their old-fashioned brougham
driving through the town.
The only way to come
from Sydney to Wollongong
was by steam, as mentioned
in the letters, and the Queen’s
Hotel of those days still stands
and is the present Queen’s Flats.
In one of the letters is men-
tioned a wooded hill on the
property, and I think this is the
hill now called Green Hills, on
which the B.H.P. has its guest-
house, and the place at which
the Duke and Duchess of
Gloucester stayed for a time
before leaving Australia. It is
only a quarter of a mile from
Springfield.
Berkeley House, the residence
of the Jenkins family, was about
two miles away from the
Taylor’s house, but Berkeley
House and the Jenkins family
have disappeared from Illawarra,
though the family was well
known in the early days of the
district.
Yamba
From Mrs. D. F. Macfarlane,
Highgate Hill, Brisbane:—
In the seventh instalment of
her letters (B. 19/9/’5l), dated
August 28, 1862, Rachel
Henning writes: “We made
twenty-three miles that after-
noon, and got to a station called
Yamba for the night. Annie and
I went up to the house, and were
very kindly received by Mrs.
MacDonald.”
Mr. P. F. MacDonald was
my great-uncle, who took up
Yamba and many other pro-
perties, including Fernlees and
Marmdella.
He led several exploring
expeditions, one starting from
Marlborough in 1858 to Lake
Salvator, two hundred and sixty
miles west from Keppel Bay,
and, together with his brother,
J. G. MacDonald, explored the
headwaters of the Nogoa and
Belyando Rivers.
In 1873 he was elected as the
first member for the electoral
district of Blackall. He died in
1919, and is buried at Yamba.
He was one of a pioneer
family of twelve, all born at
Campbelltown (N.S.W.). J. G.
MacDonald explored much of
the north—-in 1864 he explored
the Gulf country, and took up
pastoral areas near present-day
Burketown and Normantown.
In 1903 he was appointed police
magistrate for South Brisbane.
My grandfather, C, H. Mac-
Donald, was also a northern
pioneer, taking up Northedge
station. He, too, lived to be
more than eighty years of age.


Guard Him...
...He’s Precious!
Growing young bodies need protection
from temperature extremes. Distressing
chills which retard your child’s de-
velopment can be avoided by the
constant healthful warmth radiated
from the “Esse” heater, “Esse”
draws in the cold air, warms
it, and circulates it through-
out the house. “Esse” is
economical as well as
being a handsome and
useful addition to
any room.
Your local hard-
ware store stocks
"Esse.”
Distributors:
STOVES
T. S. NETTLEFOLD & SONS PTY.. LTD.
189 King Street,
MELBOURNE.
223 Pulteney Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
New Era House,
1032 Hay Street,
PERTH, W.A.
50 Elizabeth Street,
KEDFBRN, N.S.W.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established JB7B.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
P n DALE (-Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
Shady Lady
by CLIVE BARRY
Harry the hat selects
four-wheel reverse. His
overloaded truck idles
up to the viner. Harry
walks beside like a bullocky.
The truck is a converted blitz-
buggy. Harry is a converted
Army cook. Harry eases the
clutch. The truck steadies. I
drop my friend the fork, hook
chains on to load-skids, duck as
truck rips forward to slap vine
stack on the cement floor.
The local estate - agent
clambers out the cab. Stiff with
bureaucratic blight. He wears
button boots, leather serviette
and high collar beer-mugs would
envy.
“Ruddy sunrise,” he remarks.
“Means rain,” Ben tells him.
Our viner clanks emptily, a
hungry treble against glutted
grinding bass of other viners in
line.
Harry the Hat dangles a
decrepit white snake. “Got her
in the paddock,” he tells us.
Harry the Hat is a local
cycloid type with a permanent
smile from drinking out of hot
billies. On diligent days he knows
vine forks from wine corks.
“Beautiful,” I breathe. Mean-
ing the sterile reptile.
“Two quid,” says Harry the
Hat.
“Quid.”
“Thirty bob.” He throws in a
sugar-bag. I take it.
“Righto,” interpolates Ben in
his cement - mixer voice:
“Worko.”
BEN and I climb on the
stack. I reach cautiously
for my friend the fork. Two
ferocious steel fangs on a hand-
polished handle with the smart
whip of a shrewish tongue.
The estate-agent skips nimbly
to avoid being white-collar
deep in vines. He seeks high-
profit pastures for a browsing
intermediary
Ua , ~ . .. , .
. He , b “ bb, f , pa ’ ly „ chltchat
learnt from legal henchmen to
f°Y er at th® sight of work,
Plenty of vine, ’ he points out.
Brightly. Sunblackburnt pea-
vines by the landscapeful. I
Cai \ t thmk of the answer so I
no “ ag r p® me nt. He nods agree-
ment with my agreement,
I g aze over cultivated dales,
embroidered with poplars,
pepper-trees, willows ; lined with
snowfed, bone-aching creeks.
“Plenty work,” remarks the
estate-agent. Lousy taste. That
remark. Like compliments for
at ladies.
“Rousin’ to get it off and
away,” I elaborate.
“I believe this viner plant is
for sale?” He’s getting
warmer.
I nod at Ben. Ben forks
sulkily. Talk palls.
“You’re the best toiler in the
outfit,” the estate-agent flatters
the old lithe, blithe bloke
sweating beside me.
“Gotta be,” explains Ben.
‘l’m boss.”
“No need to push the fellers,”
he adds, “Flies keep ’em
moving.”
“You own this line of viners?”
probes the estate-agent.
“Yep,” agrees Ben.
“I got a buyer.”
Ben tosses thoughtful forkfuls.
“Come over to the office.”
I watch them move over to
the sheet-metal lean-to.
AFTER victory that brought
freedom from want and
fear, Ben sunk deferred-pay in
viner machines. Deferred-pay
which made him financially
solvent and politically grateful.
In those days the scheme was
financially feasible. Grower’s
percentage of the canning com-
pany’s buying-price paid Ben’s
expenses easily. Now he
struggles with increasing awards
and fear that the canning com-
pany won’t raise buying-prices
this season.
I contracted wholesale pea-
shucking myself once. Only
once. Now I pitch pea-vines
into mechanical maws and peas
roll out segregated at twelve quid
for forty hours, time and a half
overtime, double time Sundays.
Laborious locals toil till they
drop to win record cheques.
Stacks stick together like
chewing-gum. Slavery. I hitch
my pants. I sharpen prongs on
cement deck. I spit on hands.
I’m champion hat-straightener
and pants-hitcher.
Twelve clangorous soul-
staggering hours daily slightly
delirious with sweat and sun-
glare, flies on busted blisters,
heat and martyred muscles.
When work is unbearable I
heave Sedgman forkfuls into
writhing viscera of that avid
lady. Until her pressure-gauge
blushes danger. Until her mean
maw drips green gore. Until
she coughs, regurgitates or
strangles.
“Thank God,” say blokes as
they drop on soft vine stacks to
dream of hard-drinking while
Ben clears Lie flails.
“Take a spell outside,” directs
Ben. Harshly.
“Did you sell?”
“The price isn’t right.”
I take my turn forking masti-
cated vines at the dorsal end.
Filling trucks with fodder,
fertiliser. Forking in sunlight.
Hot enough to thaw virgins.
Bare feet, bare legs, bare back.
Smooth pitching technique,
bilateral, that snores through
smouldering hours. Tireless
machines to pace.
A STREAMLINED straw-
rY hued utility peels off the
sealed highway, parks behind the
truck I load. The pudgy,
perky canning company
manager wallows out. He boasts
a brilliantined bald-patch, sun-
shields, arch-supports, jelly-
belly, warts and a migrant
secretary.
He holds the door for his
migrant secretary. Graciously.
She looks young as home-
made whisky. Enough girl in an
elastic girdle to model a seven-
day diet. Viners scream raven-
ously as the shed stops forking
to savor the secretary.
Ex - sheep - shearers, tractor-
drivers, chaff-cutters, timber-
getters, eucalyptus-distillers stand
staring in eloquent silence. At
the toast of the Volga boatmen.
In high heels. Newly-knotted
tresses black as pickled walnuts.
Rivets in her tailored short jeans
sparkle like stones from jewelled
tiaras. High heels and shorts
haze me. No man ignores
Pudge’s secretary unless he be
colorless or kidding.
“Where you get girl-friends
like that?” asks Ben.
“Get application-forms at the
Employment Office,” I tell him.
Pudge shouts good-day to
Ben.
“Good-.day,” shouts Ben.
“Hello, lady,” I cry to the
wham girl. I’m devilish as may-
poles on the sward. I give her a
glimpse of lean athletic elegance.
Stuff she needn’t go on missing.
“You’ll pardon me,” she lisps.
I’ll pardon her.
She clinkles pirate ear-rings.
Typical of baubles Pudge gives
womenfolk for purposes
hymeneal.
“Glorious day to be out and
about,” I beam along my
weather-beaten length. Husky.
I am. Like a torch-singer
crooning blues.
She lifts a wrinkling nose.
She doesn’t smile. I beam no
more. That’s right. Ice the
bloke.
I spit on my hands. I
straighten my hat.
‘ < L_l OW are peas?” asks
t 1 Pudge after backslapping
is over. He digs hairy paws into
graded green grains, nibbles,
looks authoritative.
“Might sell the viners,” admits
Ben.
“Let’s drink,” invites Pudge.
Drinks are a Cadillac-spurt
away.
The wham girl squeezes be-
tween Pudge and Ben. I try to
imagine that for myself. The
sleek utility swings on to high-
way making less noise than illicit
lovers under family windows.
CLEAN chunky cloud
accumulates. Monaro rain-
mist undulates through moorland
heath and stunted gum. Relief
from work at last is come. Work
stops as trucks flounder in
muddy paddocks. Boxes of
newly-shucked peas are loaded
on the last truck to risk axles
along sixty corrugated miles to
the canning works. Peas shrivel
if not canned within four hours
of shucking.
Porkers pile on truck trays
and trundle to town. I dive in
the dam, lather fatigue from
twisted limbs. I unbelt the driv-
ing tractor from the viner line,
grab my snake-sack, drive to
town, throw a lip over schooners.
Adoringly. From the bar I see
Ben, Pudge and the secretary
lording it in the lounge.


TKIiPW
WRE STRAWS*
AND ASNGe/t
% TOUGH ENOUGHS
FOR ANY WIRE . . .
• SMALL ENOUGH FOR
THE HIP POCKET...
HlPPO—the mighty midget that
will break 8-g. fencing wire,
strains indefinitely without biting.
Weighs only 21bs., folds to fit in
hip pocket. Mighty leverage,
simple to use, nothing to wear out.
y
I Plus
* Postage
MANNING & OSBORNE
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI 3 1 (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
:
iiiii
m
m i
,
-xSSf
mmt
mm
\
THIS
TRACTOR
MEANS
I MOX£ fiXOffTPOX YOU/
i
N
AS*
f
y]m£RSAOM^-
fioes more /'obeper
more wort: per or /ese /re/per //our/
Its 6-way power fits St for so many jobs all through the year that its cost pet
tractor-hour is low. Its drawbar h.p., highest in its class, means it does more
work per day. And its fuel-thrift means big savings on your fuel bills! la short,
owners everywhere agree here is a tractor that has everything, does
everything better, quicker and cheaper!
You get the same versatility, efficiency and even greater economy with Ihs
Nuffield Universal Diesel
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
PETER LLOYD LIMITED
Victoria:
KELLOW FALKINER PTY. LTD.
Queensland:
FLINDERS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
South Australia:
KJNGSWAY LIMITED
Western Australia:
park lane motors pty. ltd.
Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
d
ON-THE-FARM SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE
PARTS AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE
FROM AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
WIHTFU)
DEALER
NT7.24.52
WSSSBSSS3USBL
*IAr PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND. NEW SOUTH WALES
Insulated from conversations
mostly obscene and sometimes
exquisite. I join them. With
my beer and sugar-bag. The
lady has switched shorts for
floral Slav skirt which clings
lovingly to hip-periphery like
froth clings to beer. Incon-
gruous. That continental color.
In a country pub.
Outside rain drums on
galvanised-iron, sings through
gum-leaves, washes crinkled bark
from yellow eucalypts. Inside,
tobacco smoke sinks in dead air,
writhes over floorboards. The
lady has drunk too much. She
swaps glassy stares with the
hundredweight Murray Cod on
the mantelshelf.
In the bar an off-beat ballad is
rasped to thumping piano
accompaniment.
“Ben might sell his viners,” I
announce to get a leg in the
conversation.
“How will the canning com-
pany pay this season?” asks
Ben.
“Don’t worry,” Pudge
comforts Ben. Fraternally.
“We have your interests at
heart.”
HE lady pulls both eyes on
1 to Pudge with obvious
effort.
"You’re mistaken,” she tells
him.
“Eh?” Pudge’s
mouth hangs
ajar.
“Liar,” clarifies
the lady,
“Quiet, girl.”
Pudge says it
too loudly.
The lady
stands, sways,
flushes with grog
and righteous-
ness. A direful
novelty. Her
behavior. Like
the hydrogen
reaction. I get
a glimpse of
willowy poise
that makes hot
words seem
unimportant.
“You told me different,” she
rebukes Pudge. Too emotional.
These Continentals,
“Drunk,” comments Pudge.
“Hypocrite,” returns the lady.
Pudge blushes. Aghast.
“Quiet, girl,” he tries. Hope-
lessly.
“You told me viners would
run at a loss this season.” She
adds more in a high-pitched
tirade that awakens my snake,
makes my nervous network
vibrate like piano-wire.
“Righto,” soothes Ben. Per-
plexed. Sudden silence from
the bar is followed by cheers for
the lady.
“Fraud,” the lady spits. For
encore. She unpockets a pepper-
mint to freshen her mouth.
Bristles stand to attention on the
back of my neck. Pubs are
made for such quarrels.
The cabinet radio churns out
ferocious pulp for the afternoon
cliff-hanger serial. By com-
parison our quarrel is top-grade
trash.
BEN thinks thoughtfully. I
roll a smoke. Nonchalant.
I concentrate on the lady. I’m
dynamite with ladies. “Ochi
Chernyia,” I say.
“What you say?”
"... .with a permanent smile from
drinking out of hot billies.”
“How’s Russia nowadays?”
“Italy I come from.” She
wears full-sleeved silk blouse,
white, like the Doge of Venice.
Her clothes are simple as local
oafs.
“Beer?”
“Gin and vermouth,” she says
between chomps on her pepper-
mint. She smiles. Superior.
Marsala-tinted lips and white
blouse, silk, billow-bursting there
and there. She could order any-
thing from russet ruin to dis-
tilled estradiol.
“Me, too,” I say. Gamely.
We take whets. I’ll have a
secretary myself one day. I tell
her. When I find those old
mines with basalt pillars still
unwashed. Also I’ll have an
ex-wife complete with lawyer.
After several whets the delusion
is not so megalomaniac.
‘* I OOK here,” I brag. I
I—- 1 open the sugar-bag’s
neck. Pencilled eyebrows fly
up like tails ten-bob, eyes flash
like burgundy under neons. Im-
pressive is what I want to be.
Impressive is what I am.
She has her slipper, high-
heeled, off and hammering that
grey grass-snake before you can
say Joe Blake. The snake is
drugged with shellac and doesn’t
notice until it’s too late. The
white has
rubbed off
inside the sack.
The snake hangs
together like a
Hollywood plot.
A yard of
anaemic oakum.
I take my
shopsoiled snake
in the bar to
wrap around
the neck of
Harry the Hat.
Harry tells a
funny story
about a white-
snake swindle.
The joke clanks.
My language is
not of the King
James’s version.
I toss the snake and basic advice
to the pub-crawling public.
“Money back,” I say.
“Hopping on broken bottles,”
Harry chooses from limited
vocabulary.
Fight.
I’ve seen duller fights in Cairo
cafes. There am I flat out in
front of the wine saloon with
an ear thick as a drunkard’s
voice, head jangling like medal
decorations for a generalissimo,
and shooting pains playing in
four raw colors. I do butterfly-
stroke through velvet goo‘until
the estate-agent materialises to
set me upright. I aim one eye
at him, let the other roam
independent.
“All right?” he asks.
Redundantly.
“Cigarette,” I demand. I
take half his pack.
THE star - scattered sky is
tranquil and dry when
Harry the Hat drops me back
at my flat in the shed where
they store old potatoes. I
throw an objective boot at a
subjective spook. I’m not
raddled. lust overcome. I
fumble among patent medicines
for an emetic. I poke at roasting
{Continued on Page 33.)


Missing Friend.
TO MANSON WALLIS WHITE formerly of 6
Williams Street Abbotsford Melbourne m he
of Victoria and of 45 Cary Street Leichhardt m
the State of New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY JANE WHITE your vrip l
instituted proceedings in the Supremi B ... rt {or
Victoria against you Manson Wallis ® nleSB
divorce on the ground of desertion
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotar/s Omca
of the Supreme Court of Victoria VOlamßM
Melbourne on or before the 17th day 0 P . of
and file an answer on or before _ the 28 J^; v
April 1952 this suit may proceed y° u Me J.
ROGERS & GAYLARD. 281 CoUins Street, m
bourne, Solicitors for Dorothy Jane wmre.
Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Over 50 members of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital attended a meeting, followed by
afternoon-tea, in the Australia’s Venetian
Court. Hostesses were Mrs. Rufus
Ramey, smart in a dove-grey suit and
tiny black hat, Mrs. Frank Gillespie, in
a junior blue jacket-suit and natural straw
boater finished with a posy, and Mrs.
Robert Denbo, whose beige shantung
tailored frock was worn with a small
blaek cloche finished with quills. The
president, Mrs. Earl Daum, piloted the
meeting through plans for the Fourth of
July ball. Mesdames David Cheadle and
A. Klestadt are organisers, Mrs. George
Urich ticket-secretary. Catering is in the
hands of Mrs. B. Drayton and a sub-
committee, Mrs. Tom Blarney has a com-
mittee for decorations and Mrs. Robert
Macklin and Miriam Ramey will do the
publicity. During the afternoon silver
spoons were presented to Mrs. G. Kuiper
and Mrs. R. S. Begg, who are returning
to U.S.A.
The Princess Theatre was packed when
John Brownlee, home after many years,
sang the role of Baron Scarpia in Puccini’s
“Tosca.” His presence inspired the rest
of the cast to greater efforts, and as Tosca
Betty Fretwell not only looked beautiful
but sang beautifully. Premier McDonald
and Mrs. McDonald were present, the
latter wearing a black crepe gown under
a long coat of black and gold lame.
Mr. T. T. Hollway and his wife were
delighted with the opera, for it was Tom
Hollway’s Government which launched
the National Theatre Movement in a big
way with the first Government grant of
£lO,OOO. Mrs. Hollway looked charming
in a filmy lace gown of turquoise-blue
tonings. Lady Knox, in the absence of
her husband, Sir Robert, who is president
of the National Theatre Movement, was
hostess to a large party which included
Lord and Lady Lucas, the latter wearing
a lovely gown of deep royal blue chiffon
under a silver-fox cape. Mrs. John Inkster
(Lady Mayoress) wore a black lace gown
with the pattern outlined in gold thread.
Mrs. John Brownlee chose a stunning
apricot faille gown which featured a
satin coin spot in the same lovely shade.
Mrs. Jim Buchanan’s black cobweb lace
gown was gold-spotted. Mrs. Essington
Lewis wore black lace and was accom-
panied by her daughter Jane, who wore
pale-blue satin brocade. Among others
were Mrs. Joe Post, Mrs. John Quere with
daughter Patricia Gibson, Mrs. Dick
Noone, Mrs. Bill Winter Irving and Mrs.
Constance Day, whose theatre-frock of
rose satin brocade was worn with a mink
stole.
A screaming rabble harassed those who
went to the Town Hall to hear Gieseking.
Police outside and inside were protec-
tion both for audience and pianist, and,
as if to apologise for the larrikins out-
side, the audience gave Gieseking a
wonderful reception. Later he won an
ovation on his own merits, for he is a
master of the piano. In the audience
were Mrs. Conrad Charlton, accompanied
by Mrs. Guy Bakewell, the Herbert
Pacini’s, who forsook the first night of
“Tosca” for the pianist, Pat Gawne with
Dr. Guy Hutchinson (they will be married
on April 1), Winsome Dane, a vision
in black velvet, and Mrs. Dick Doyle.
Mrs. Andrew Manifold and Mrs. “Rusty”
Coldham were together and were later
joined by Mrs. Coldham’s parents,
Wing-Commander and Mrs. Norman
Poulton.
Gieseking’s second concert was devoted
to works of Debussy and again the audi-
ence enjoyed exquisite music and faultless
execution.' Mrs. Frank Tait was with a
small party which included Cecil Tait.
Mrs. John Rountree, better known as
pianist Roma Rainford, came from Hamil-
ton with her husband for this perform-
ance. Other pianists in the audience were
Vera Bradford and Lindsay Biggins.
At the beginning of the last war a small
group of women banded together and
called themselves the Town and Gown
Guild. Their aim was to keep the sitting-
rooms of Union House at the University
well furnished. They are still doing that
excellent work. Recently Lady Mc-
Connan, who is a very active member of
the guild, organised a Bits and Pieces and
This and That fair at Union House. Lady
Lowe, wife of the Chancellor, is president
of the guild, and she received Mrs. Henry
Stebbins, wife of the U.S. Consul-
General, who opened the function.
Lady McConnan had the help of Mrs.
Essington Lewis and Mrs. Boyce Gibson
on *her stall, while Mrs. J. C. Farrin
Webb, convenor of the sweets stall,
was assisted by a number of wives of
members of the judiciary. A very de-
lightful afternoon-tea (all scones and
cakes home-made by members of the
guild and their friends) was served.
Mrs. Bryan Foster, responsible for this
part of the afternoon’s proceedings, was
helped by Mesdames Colin McKay, Roy
Chambers and J. McDougall,
Pictured here is Beverley Mary, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Leonard
Buxton, of Hampden-road, Armadale.
Beverley’s engagement to John Merrick,
only child of the late Mr, and Mrs. John
T. Teague, of Melbourne, was announced
at a small dinner-party given at the
Buxton home. Beverley, who is wearing
a diamond solitaire engagement-ring, is
an old girl of Sacre Coeur School, and
John was educated at Wesley. Beverley
and John met while they were abroad
last year. She returned with her parents
some weeks ago, but John has just got
back. If a flat can be found the wed-
ding is to take place in June. Beverley
has assisted her mother in a number of
charitable functions. Mrs. Buxton was at
one time president of the Sacre Coeur
Old Girls’ Association.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, who has con-
tributed so much to many war-time
organisations and charitable institutions,
wifi leave shortly in the Orion for over-
seas. With her goes son Lachlan and
sister Mrs. Juday James, while son
Robert and his wife are to follow by
air. Mrs. Mitchell will be guest-of-honor
at several parties before she leaves, the
first a luncheon given by Mrs. Norman
Spry at her Toorak home. Other host-
esses will be Mrs. Ray King, Mrs. Eric
Cottrell and her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Robert Mitchell.
Summer returned briefly for the week-
end and gave women a chance, probably
for the last time for some months, to
wear to Caulfield races their pretty silk
and linen frocks. Everywhere on the race-
course was a glowing mass of color.
Soft pinks, limes, greys and blues, mostly
etched in black or navy designs or in
plain colors. Large hats were plentiful.
They were mostly black to contrast with
a colorful frock or suit, but white hats
were also popular. At this time, opening
of the autumn race season, there should
have been smart wool or tweed suits, but
they were missing.
The Caulfield choice of Mrs. Norman
Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C. chairman,
was a string-colored shantung frock with
which she wore a wide-brimmed black
straw hat. Among her guests at luncheon
were Lady Lucas, who wore a pastel-
mauve linen jacket-suit with a black straw
hat featuring a mushroom brim, and Mrs.
J. D, Hardman, wife of the new chief of
the R.A.A.F.; her choice was a black
faille frock highlighted with an applique
of whit© leaf pattern and a small white
toque edged with white lilac, Mrs. Sue
Cain was attractive in a simple tailored
frock of junior-blue linen, with a bunch
of white violets at the deep neckline, and
her picture hat was of winter white felt.
Mrs. W. H. Horsfall chose a frock of
grey silk, coin-spotted in white, her
wide-brimmed hat of black straw em-
bellished with jet pins. Petunia-pink
linen fashioned Mrs. Arthur Laver’s
jacket-suit, and her hat and accessories
were black. Contrast for her was the
hyacinth-blue linen frock and white hat
chosen by her sister-in-law, Dorothy
Laver. A pale-pink ballibuntal straw
hat veiled in black was worn by Mrs.
Ken McLean with her black crepe jacket-
suit with its collar and cuffs fashioned
of black satin. Mrs, A. G. Hunter’s
frock of yellow silk was patterned in
autumn tonings and worn with a black
hat. Mrs. Alan Russell, holidaying with
her mother while her husband is survey-
ing the New Guinea jungle, chose a high-
necked sleeveless frock of white broderie
Anglaise, A pink-and-white-spotted frock
and brown hat, flower-trimmed, was worn
by Mrs. J. Bird.
From Sydney
Winter may be “i-cumen in,” but there’s
spring in the hearts of the men’s-wear
designers. Highest fashion point of the
week are the fancy weskits displayed by
a leading store. Dedicated to the memory
of Beau Brummell, they’re of white satin
brocade (suitable for tails), rich tie-silk
and embroidered faille (for the cocktail
hour with lounge suits), woollens in
colors and tartans, and buff doeskin. The
w r oollens and doeskins are to be worn with
sports coats, to which they lend dignity.
Medical types have taken to them in a
big way, and the more adventurous busi-
ness tycoons will wear them to the office.
Shown in the same window, though not
for sale, are elegant dress-shirts from
England with little pleats and flat, tailored
lace trimming. One hears that there is a
tailor in town making these to order and
including a pleated frill round the cuff.
Bow-ties grow more buoyant. There is
one on display quite as carefree as those
sported by Aage Thaarup when he was
here.
As if in answer to increasing mag-
nificence of men’s wear the autumn
clothes for women being shown in shop-
windows are most luscious, or, rather, the
materials and the prices are rich, the
colors are more inclined to be subdued —
—steel-grey and bronze, navy and black.
One gets used to seeing evening gowns
for £7B, ballerinas for £45, so that a
little number in tie-silk for 20 gns. or
thereabouts seems quite moderate. Most
of the evening-dresses are on the grand
scale, with diamente and sequins bedeck-
ing them, so that one sighs for the
splendor that was to have been Sydney’s
during the Royal tour.
Perhaps all this magnificence prompted
the Federal boys to restrict imports.
When this was written, however, there
was no sign of .any mad rush to buy up
all the brocades and lames and lustrous
tie-silks. Of course, it takes time for
the significance of anything to percolate
through to the consciousness of the
average woman, and when she does wake
up the early-birds have swept the tables
clean. “Mr. Menzies,” said a leader of
a woman’s association, “has hit at
women again”—as though women were
a particular section of the community
like ironworkers or undergraduates or
importers. Women have their peculiar
problems, it is true, but they belong to
every section of the community as wives
and mothers, so that no law or enactment
can hit them all with equal force. What
we lose on the swings we make up on the
roundabouts, and the reason why a sudden
announcement can affect us badly is that
we’re not all equally wide-awake.
This is Gaynor Mitchell, who will play
Julie in the Mosman Musical Society’s
production of “New Moon” from March
21 to 29. Gaynor has been playing prin-
cipal roles with this lively society for the
past three and a half years specialising (by
sheer coincidence) in “Julies.” There
was Juliette in “The Geisha,” Julie in
“Showboat” (her favorite role), and now
Julie in “New Moon.” At the conclusion
of the show Gaynor is leaving with Betty
Parsons, another well-known M.M.S. per-
sonality, for England. The girls sail in
the Orcades on May 2 and intend
to see all they can of the British Isles
and the Continent.
It was remarkable how many women
wore black at the reception for the John
Brownlees by the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra’s Ladies’ Committee. Appa-
rently court mourning is to be taken very
seriously by many Sydneyites, although
one didn’t notice black armbands among
the men. Lady Anderson’s black dress
was worn with a wide hat. Lady Plow-
man’s svelte gown was coupled with a
small, saucy ostrich-feathered hat. The
Lady Mayoress and Mrs. Heffron were
in black, also Mrs. Hop© Gibson, who
also wore a gold-embroidered cocktail-
hat. Mrs. Charles Moses coupled black
with pink. Mrs. Arthur Davis pinned
white gardenias to a jet-black tailored
dress., Mrs, Arthur Charteris’s black
linen was smart and cool and attractive.
Betty James looked glamorous in a wide-
spreading black faille dust-coat.
It is just 30 years since an “open con-
ference” of country women was called to
see what could Jbe done about making
bush-life more attractive, and from that
conference emerged the Country
Women’s Association, now 27,000 strong
and with a record of having established
162 rest-rooms, 157 baby health centres,
seaside and mountain holiday homes and
cottages, homes for waiting mothers,
school hostels, children’s playgrounds and
libraries. Fourteen hospitals have been
established, although of these only two
are now being conducted by the associa-
tion, others having been leased at nominal
rental to the Hospitals Commission or
the Bush Nursing Association. The birth-
day of the C.W.A. will be celebrated by
the general conference, April 21-24,
when Mrs. J. M. Gordon, of Windella
(Burren Junction branch). State president
for her third term, will be in the chair.
Avalon and Castlecrag, Kings Cross
and Bond-street must have suffered a
severe decrease in population on Thurs-
day, when their art-addict inhabitants
flocked to the exhibition of sculpture and
painting by Margo and Gerald Lewers.
The dressing ranged from the sublime to
the ridiculous and made life more spicy
by its variety. Odd how people with skill
in color and line seldom relate that skill
to adorning themselves. Perhaps they feel
that it is more important to express their
personalities—stark, subtle, wild or way-
ward as they may be —with paint or clay,
and perhaps they are right. The buffet at
the show was excellent. Organised and
supervised by Margo herself, it was edible
and decorative and may qualify for a
Bulletin award at the end of the year.
The Lewers live at Emu Plains, where
Gerald sculpts bird-baths, etc., and
Margo paints in the abstract. They have
two daughters, Tarani and Tanya, at
present sucking up knowledge at
Frensham.
That little band formed last year,
Headquarters Younger Set of the N.S.W.
Society for Crippled Children, is plan-
ning a dinner-dance to be held at Fig Tree
Inn, Hunter’s Hill, on Sunday, March 23.
Among members arranging parties are
Margaret Salenger, Pat Casper, Monica
Johnson, June Fawcett, Ailsa Cook,
Margaret Silva, Joan and Nancy Bren-
nand, Beverly Grand, Mary Butler (who
is travelling from Maitland for the dance)
and Sylvia Smith, who will sell you tickets
at 15s. each if you ring her up at
BXIOII.
Abbotsleigh Old Girls’ Union has fixed
Monday, April 21, for their annual ball,
and held an informal dance at the
Masonic Hall, Turramurra, last Friday,
to get funds. The girls running this
always-enjoyable ball are Margaret Gus-
tafson, Margaret Costello, Judy Millard,
Mollie Douglas, Jean Bray, Helen Bald-
win and Betty Cox.
Lending color (query, what color?) to
the theory that St. Patrick was a Scot
is the fact that “Brigadoon,” which is just
bristling with bagpipes, reels, sporrans,
etc., will celebrate its first birthday in
Australia on Monday next, St. Patrick’s
Day.
Another date for St. Pat.’s Day is the
Loretto Ex-Students’ Ball at the Troc.
President is Dr. Tess Carmichael; com-
mittee includes Mrs. Tom Bateman, Miss
E. Crews, Miss M. Galbraith and Mrs.
L. W. Ritchie.
It becomes increasingly difficult for
brides to achieve something quite different
in their own and bridesmaid’s dresses, but
the exquisite delicacy of coloring at the
wedding of Susan Gai Watt and Laurence
Street was completely original. The
bride’s dress was of nylon net, long-
sleeved, high-necked and of a silver-grey
so ethereal that its color scarcely
perceptible. The bridesmaids’ dresses,
too, achieved a filmy dream-like quah,
from the posing of white nylon net oyer
pale ice-blue taffeta. White flowers for
all made a complete picture of youthtui-
ness and charm.


The wine of to-day and
the wine of the future
, rr
WINE
Established 1847
PERSONAL ITEMS
Chairman of the proceedings which
ended with destroyer Voyager’s first tast-
ing salt (B. 5 1 3 1 ’52), Sir Keith Smith has
had long connection with warships. Now
boss of Cockatoo Dockyard, he has been
for years Sydney representative of
Vickers-Armstrong, whose trade-mark —
on guns, equipment and hulls —has been
carried by pretty well every ship of the
Commonwealth navies. Born in Adelaide
and schooled in Scotland, he was in the
R.F.C. in tire Kaiser’s dust-up, and was
in the famous Vickers-Vimy bomber
which his brother Ross touched-down
at Darwin in December, 1919, on the first
England-Australia flight. One of the most
genial of men, just passed 60, he rose
Sir Keith soon after the epic flight.
With less preliminary puff-parring than
is usual for a celebrity of his calibre,
John Brownlee has returned to add dis-
tinction to the National Theatre’s opera
season at the Princess, Melbourne. It’s
20 years since the baritone’s last visit. In
between he has sung almost continuously,
at Glyndebourne (Eng.), at the Metro-
politan (New York) and in Paris. During
his 1932-33 visit Geelong, except for a
few stray dogs, was emptied of its popu-
lation when he sang in opera at the
Royal, and residents of Sleepy Hollow
also pretty well filled the Melbourne Town
Hall for his solo concerts. Born in
Geelong in 1900, Brownlee was a singer
in a local church choir and accountancy
student in his spare time when he gained
top marks at the Ballarat competitions.
Thus encouraged, he went to Europe to
study under Dinh Gilly. One of the
peculiar things about him is that, although
a star of opera, he has never tried to put
the conventional Italian heart-throb into
his singing, but sings with a purity and
simplicity that matches his birth-name,
which was Watson.
Archbishop Mannix passed his 88th
milestone recently. R.C, Archbishop of
Melbourne since 1917, he celebrated the
occasion by taking over the duties of a
curate at Queenscliff, near Port Phillip
heads, and taking his long morning walk
along the foreshore instead of the usual
from Raheen in Kew to St. Patrick’s
Cathedral.
“Macnell”: Many a blue-waterman will
mourn the passing of Captain Bob Stewart,
who had his pendants hoisted in Sydney the
other day. I remember well the day he came
into the office. Succeeding a voice which swelled
through the door like a Force 6 wind, a barrel-
girthed, sombrero-hatted man with a face mas-
sively seamed like a relief-map rolled into the
room. An enormous hand, with fingers like
bananas, preceded him like a ram. “I minds
the time,” he roared, “when The Bulletin was
the seaman’s Bible; thank God it’s got a bit
of blue-water back in its veins!” The chair
groaned as he berthed himself. “How d’ you
like my cady? Got it in Honolulu. I was in a
paper meself once. Alongside Vancouver, chief
of the old Moana. Sparky young reporter
climbs aboard and asks why we have a list.
I called to the engineer, ‘Hey, Chief, have
you finished pumpin’ them starb’d tanks.
‘Aye,’ grinned Jock, always on for a joke.
‘Right. Then I’ll get ’em folded and stowed
in the forepeak.’ ‘What’s nosed the
newspaperman, ‘foldin’ tanks?' ‘Sure,’ says
I. ‘Haven’t you heard of the new India-
rubber tanks that save stowage-space?’ So
next day there I was in half a column about
the Australian ship and its new invention.
Through the door I saw a couple of heads,
listening delightedly to the bellow it could
have been heard in George-street. “Then there
was the time east of Durban. First mate tell
overboard. Should ’ve known better—been at
sea 40 years, then joined a steamship. We
threw him everything. The cook threw him a
lifebuoy. The mate was 10 fathoms down
before he realised it was a grindstone! Ho,
ho!” The sombrero lifted. “Better be gettin
under way.” “What are you doing now, Cap-
tain?” “Now?” The voice lowered regretfully
to half a gale. “Now I’m second mate of a
North Shore fowlhouse!” Leaving a half-
mangled hand behind him, he rolled off, a fine
old sea-dog who had served the Union and
A.U.S.N. companies for most of his life, as
well as serving in two world wars.
In these touchy times east of Suez,
Ceylon gets a first-class Australian repre-
sentative in Arthur Cutler, at present High
Commissioning in New Zealand. Thirty-
five, almost half a foot over 6ft. long.
Cutler graduated Bachelor of Economics
at Sydney University (taking, as well,
blues in swimming and rifle-shooting),
and graduated in artillery in Syria. Rest-
ing with a cobber on a goat-track near
the Damour River, he heard a mortar
lob within a foot of his leg. It was a
dud ; Cutler reckoned his alley was good
for the rest of the war. But shortly after-
wards, leading a line along an exposed
position, he caught an explosive bullet
in the knee. He came home minus a leg
(and with V.C. won a month earlier at
Merdjayoun), to take on the secretary-
ship of the R.S.L. in N.S.W., and, a
year later, the assistant-commissioner-
ship of the Repatriation Department.
Both father and uncle were King’s Prize
winners at rifle-shooting.
Two Perth medicos, John Murray Drew
and John Elliott Phillips, are packing up
scalpels and whatnot to join the Canadian
Army, rank of major. Each John is a
tallish 39, and each had service overseas
before coming to Australia. Drew,
formerly of the Indian Army Medical
Service, has been medical superintendent
of the Fremantle General Hospital since
1949. Phillips, an honorary at the Royal
Perth and Fremantle Hospitals, started
off in War II with the 8.E.F., and got
out of Dunkirk, to be collared at Singa-
pore, where he had gone as D.A.D.M.S.
of the British 18th Division. He spent
close on four years in Japanese clutches.
Some good came out of it —he met
Westralian medico Bruce Hunt, with
whom he has been in partnership since
his arrival in Perth in 1948.
Almost exactly 37 years ago, when the
A.I.F. was sightseeing in Egypt, this page
said:
The cussedness of things! Private Reginald
Beard falls 20ft. from the Pyramid of
Cheops and is for the rest of his life
paralysed from the waist down. Private
Norman Veness, ricocheting 11 times in a
roll of 350 ft. down the face of the same
pile of masonry, is none the worse except
for a few scars. Veness lost his footing
and finished the journey on whatever limb
or other excresence bumped the blocks of
stone on his way to the ground. He was
picked up by his companions with an Bin.
fracture of the top of the skull, a 4in.
fracture near the right temple and a third
near the left eye. After a week’s uncon-
sciousness he recovered, but has had to
return home, a standing advertisement for
the skill of Melbourne doctor Fred Bird,
who operated on him at Mena House.
Pictured herewith by Orme, Veness has
been with the P.M.G. in Sydney for 42
years, and laughingly said that his
mates on Cheops’s top could verify that
KNOWS CHEOPS.
he hit 11 times —they stood up there and
counted the bumps! Though he can
fairly claim to have had his brains
brushed, Veness, except for periodical
pains in his cranium, is in A 1 health.
One of the Diggers who witnessed the
fall is Cobden Parkes, youngest son of
Sir Henry. Now N.S.W. Government
Architect, Cobden Parkes has been presi-
dent of the Royal Australian Institute of
Architects since last year.
This Gordon model is Walter Wynd-
ham Pike, co-boss of the well-known
firm which began dressing men in
Brisbane not long after The Bulletin
began dressing them down in Sydney.
Born in the northern capital 55 years ago,
W.W. was an aviation pioneer up that
way, owning the first Tiger Moth in the
State and flying with the R.F.C. in
Wilhelm’s show. In Hitler’s he trained a
large batch of youngsters, wing-
CLOTHES QUEENSLANDERS.
commander in charge of the Air Train-
ing Corps, R.A.A.F. A stanchion of the
Royal Queensland Aero Club, he
numbers another seven clubs on his list.
Usually to be located testing the
breaking-strain of a deep-sea fishing-line
down the bay.
There is no better-known figure in
clerical broadcloth in Brisbane than H. M.
Wheller, for the past quarter of a cen-
tury superintendent of the Albert-street
Methodist Church (the mother-church of
Methodism in Queensland) and the
Central Methodist Mission. A top-notch
speaker, he’s always been a champion of
the aged—dear to his heart is Garden
Settlement, a comfortably-apppointed
home for eventiders at Chermside. Now,
having reached the allotted span, he’s
calling it a day.
Reports of Voyager’s launching must
have made a certain engineer in Sydney
wonder—and perhaps shudder at his
memories. Commissioned - mechanician
Bert Edwards —having worked his way
into the wardroom through the tail-shaft
or whatever black-gangers work their way
through—was responsible for destroyer
Stuart’s vitals in the Mediterranean,
when Commander Hec Waller sent for
him. “Voyager’s having trouble—nick
over and see what you can do.”
Edwards nicked over, and did such a
thoroughly good job of nursing her worn
engines and boilers through thousands of
killing miles that he was never allowed to
nick back again. For months he begged,
borrowed (possibly stole) and generally
cajoled the hard-pressed base engineering
staff ashore in Alex, for gear and assist-
ance to keep her screws turning. He’s
now lieut. - commander, frosty - pated
(little wonder), and Fleet-Engineer’s
Assistant in Sydney, with all the refine-
ments of Garden Island and the giant
Captain Cook dock at his disposal. His
work in Voyager brought him the M.B.E.
To help lighten the load which £3-
million-odd loaned to 80 private and
semi-governmental undertaking has
placed on Westralian Treasury chiefs, a
pound-wise ex-Digger, K. Townsing, be-
comes second assistant Under-Treasurer.
On the inspecting accountants’ staff of the
State Treasury when Hitler boosted the
pay-office business of the A.1.F., Town-
sing went overseas, and at the cease-fire
was chief-inspector of Army Finance
Organisation, with rank of major. He’s
37.
Recent appointments by Atlantic
Pact headquarters give command of the
English Channel to Admiral Sir Arthur
Power, and the air over it to Air-
Marshal Alick Stevens. The new moat-
commander, at present in charge of Ports-
mouth, has held down most of the im-
portant commands in the British Navy —
Malta, 1943 ; C.-in-C. East Indies Station,
1945; and second-in-command of the
Eastern Battle Fleet the year before;
C.-in-C. Mediterranean Station from 1948
to 1950, when he shifted to Portsmouth.
Captain of carrier Ark Royal early in
Hitler’s war, he had been, as well, in
charge of that alma mater of naval tur-
reteers in Portsmouth, Whale Island. In
1947 he married a commission-rank
Wren. In the Royal Naval Air Service
in War I, the other Channel-watcher,
Stevens, transferred to the R.A.F. on for-
mation in 1918, and in War II continued
his naval associations, being head of his
service’s co-operation with the Navy.
Later boss of the air over Gibraltar and
Aden, at time of present appointment he
was back again working with his first
love as head of Coastal Command.
Off to Europe with his two Dalmatians,
Bulletin illustrator Ray Whiting, to keep
a promise to cartoonist H. M. Bateman
to hike from John o’ Groats to Land’s
End and then through Portugal and Spain
and other parts of Europe, exercising his
pencil by the way. Although in his
time actor, producer and playwright,
there is one thing Whiting won’t do in
Europe, even if he gets the offer —appear
before the footlights. Whiting, pere, had
an early Methodist’s horror of the theatre
as a career for his children, and a clause
in his 64-page will —probably the longest
in Victorian history—provided that if any
of his children made a theatrical appear-
ance they forfeited their interest. Never-
theless, Ray did make one appearance—
when an excited cast at the final curtain
of one of his own plays, “The Man Who
Did,” at the Comedy in Melbourne, hear-
ing cries for “author,” spotted him off-
stage and dragged him on to take the
plaudits. Before leaving Melbourne Ray
joined up with the Youth Hostel move-
ment, which has hostels spread over
Europe where a bed can be had for the
equivalent of Is. 6d. a night so long as
the traveller arrives on foot or pushbike.
Into the Silence:
In Hobart, while on holidays, Ben Jordan,
for the past 30 years head of the Sydney
firm of photo-engravers of the name. Born
in Southampton (Eng.), Jordan went early to
S. Africa, cartooning for the “Cape Times.”
In the days when David Low, Norman Lindsay
and Will Dyson were making their name,
Jordan was a prolific black-and-white con-
tributor to The Bulletin.
At 74, in Melbourne, L. Victor Diffey, from
1929 to 1946 Country-party member for
Wangaratta and Ovens in the Legislative
Assembly. He was a farmer at Everton.
In London, at 74, Sir Douglas Shields, world-
known Australian surgeon, who, bom in Mel-
bourne and educated at its university, left Aus-
tralia in 1913 to set up the nursing-home in
London known as 17 Park-lane. In 1915 he
became head of surgical services to the Royal
Navy, with the rank of Admiral, and waived
that rank in War II to serve as a private in
the Home Guard. One-time consultant-surgeon
to Australian Governor-Generals, in England
he had been honorary surgeon to Australian
cricket elevens.
At 74, in Melbourne, Harry Monteith Car-
stairs Mason, founder, manager and principal
amusement-maker for 52 years of what is
claimed to be the world’s oldest concert-party,
the Summerlea Entertainers. Warehouseman for
54 years at Carnegie’s piano-shop in Elizabeth-
street, he spent his entire leisure taking his
troupe round to military camps, sanatoria, old-
men’s homes and various charitable institutions,
raising thousands annually to provide comforts
for the aged and infirm. Many stage notables
made their first appearance with him. An
old-style comedian who talked without punctua-
tion, he did his turn as Will Hovis up to the
month before he passed over.
In Auckland (N-Z.), at 80, William Herbert
Wilson, son of the founder of the N.Z.
“Herald” and formerly chairman of directors
of that journal. He went right through the
mill, starting in the composing-room in 1888
and succeeding the late Sir Henry Horton as
chairman of the firm of Wilson and Horton in
1943, retiring from that in 1946. The Wilsons
were identified with the South British Insurance
Co. for decades, W.H.W. having been a director
and, at times, chairman, while his father filled
similar offices before him. Many large benefac-
tions stand to his credit in Auckland.


DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
m
mm
*****
: »
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOD!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look, Bill’s
a credit to his Company. Your shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked 1,251
men to try it . . , 81% reported “Beards easier to
cut” . . . 76% said “Less razor pull” ... 71% said
“Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
ďsf
BANKERS
PBS/IM
The shaving cream
of successful men
EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
Divorce Notices.
TO FRANCIS JOSEPH MASKELL Re-
spondent late of 20 Clovemock Road
Epsom Auckland New Zealand A peti-
tion for Nullity of Marriage has been filed
against you upon an application by letter
to the Registrar Divorce Registry Somer-
set House London W. 0.2 England A
copy of the Petition will be sent if within
68 days hereafter no application has
been made nor appearance entered the
Court may hear the Petition and pro-
nounce judgment.— H. A. de O. PE-
REIRA, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In' Divorce.
TO MAXWELL HERBERT KROHN late
of “Waratah” Hotel Elizabeth Street
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that VIOLET
MAY KROHN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 270 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Nineteenth day of
May 1952 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from JOHN BAR-
NETT GREAVES. Solicitor, 92 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
the name is
(D'Cdlliuns
the whisky is
Distilled and blended in Scotland
SUNDRY SHOWS
GIESEKING.
Seemingly unperturbed by
demonstrations, Gieseking, a big
6ft. 2in. man with a bald head,
a snow-white tonsure and a mild
expression, sat down at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall piano and
applied a touch to the keys
which was as light as his appear-
ance was heavy. What flowed
out from under it was an extra-
ordinarily clear, simple,
melodious interpretation of the
Mozart Sonata in A Major.
It was extraordinary because it
didn’t seem like anybody else’s,
but at the same time was
authentic Mozart. The flow of
notes was rapid but never
hurried, and the emotional line
of the music was maintained
through all its variations, from
wistfulness and tenderness to
sprightliness and gaiety.
Outside and inside the build-
ing half the Melbourne police-
force seemed to have assembled
for the purpose of holding an
acrimonious debate with sundry
disgruntled individuals, but the
argument between Gieseking and
the piano went on unruffled
into the “Etudes Symphoniques”
of Schumann, with its imposing
finale, on to three deliciously-
exciting intermezzi by Brahms,
the “Water Reflections” of
Debussy and the “Ondine” of
Ravel.
It was in the last two pieces
that the pianist showed himself
to be in the first-class. Only a
master could indicate the subtle
distinction between still water
and water flowing and yet some-
how or other convey that it was
water in each case he was de-
scribing. The pianist, evidently
delighted with his indoor recep-
tion, responded with half a
dozen encores, and then went off
to change his fifth or sixth collar
while the applause continued
from a house that was only half-
full because the foreign section
of Melbourne’s concertgoers, a
very large proportion, had
apparently excluded themselves
in trying to exclude Gieseking.
. . • • m
A couple of pigeons were
released at the second of
Gieseking’s concerts without dis-
turbing the German musician’s
concentration on the piano.
Gieseking is so concentrated on
the instrument that he uncon-
sciously gets lower and lower
until he almost dissolves into it,
and nobody would be surprised
if he got right inside and it went
on playing.
The chief business of the
evening was the Beethoven
Sonata Op. 110, and shouts
arose when he got somewhere
near the middle. He turned
pale but never faltered, and his
fingers continued to pour out
subtle nuances of light and color
till he came to the great fugue,
when they crashed down with
astounding vigor. A packed
house gave him a prolonged
ovation. From the popularity
standpoint he couldn’t have
done better if he had organised
the opposition himself.
"Tosca."
Although the Italian operas
being presented at the Princess,
Melbourne, are sung in English
by Australians their most ardent
supporters are Italians who make
the back stalls look like the
Opera House at Naples, bubbling
with excitement when Tosca
thrusts the bread-knife into
Scarpia’s insensate bosom, or
Cavaradossi sinks down on the
battlements of the Castle of St,
Angelo riddled with bullets, but
still capable of expressing him-
self in faultless topnotes.
The latest addition to the
National Opera Co.’s repertoire
had its unfortunate moments, but
one of them was not the scene in
Scarpia’s apartments when
Tosca is standing listening to
her lover being tortured while
the Chief Commissioner of
Police waits to hear the secret
of Angelotti’s hideout. This was
unmitigated drama, with
suspense on a hair’s thread, as
was the saving of her virtue by
Tosca when she stabbed the
baron as he was about to
embrace her.
Betty Fretwell plumbed the
depths of emotion as La Tosca
and reached to great vocal
heights in her singing of “Vissi
d’arte.” It might be going too
far to say that Robert Simmons,
who played Scarpia in the
first performance, had the
experienced John Brownlee on
his toes when he came to do the
same part in the next perform-
ance, but the younger man
certainly showed a remarkable
versatility and a flair for acting
the sardonic rascal, and gave
him a voice as rich and nearly as
tremendous as the legendary
Granforte. What he lacked was
inches, but there is no evidence
for supposing that Scarpia was
a giant.
Ronald Dowd is more
physically suited to the role of
a bullfighter than a painter, but
he gave Cavaradossi a nice tenor
as well as some selfconscious
acting. As Spoletta. Lorenzo
Nolan was the police-agent
incarnate.
John Brownlee.
John Brownlee must have felt
at home when he lobbed on the
stage at the Princess for the pur-
pose of playing Scarpia in “La
Tosca.” It is 20 years since he
played the same role in Mel-
bourne and the conditions
weren’t so different. It was at
the old Royal, now demolished,
Joseph Post was conductor,
Pedro Mirassou was Cavara-
dossi, Apollo Granforte and
Franco Izal were other Italians,
but the rest were Australians.
Molly de Gunst was Tosca, Roy
Glasheen Spoletta, Evelyn Hall
the shepherd and Joan
Hammond a supernumary
singer.
Brownlee took a two-day leap
from the Metropolitan stage in
New York to Melbourne and
found everything ready for him.
The house was jammed tight,
Stefan Haag’s production was
quite distinguished, Betty Fret-
well was as good a Tosca as
has been seen and heard in Mel-
bourne, Neil Easton was excel-
lent as Angelotti, Ronald Dowd
Cavaradossi and Sacristan
Keith Neilson left nothing to be
desired and Joseph Post had his
orchestra under excellent
control.
Scarpia’s sable robes fitted
their new user superbly, and
all the Australian singer had to
do was to repeat his usual suave,
smooth, polished, academically-
perfect performance of a part
that does not exactly suit him,
and give it a voice that seems
to be wellnigh flawless. He did
it almost too well.
Sculpture and
Paintings.
In an exhibition by Gerald
Francis Lewers (sculpture) and
Margo Lewers (paintings) at
David Jones’s Galleries, Sydney,
the piece that immediately takes
the eye, and holds it, is the
sculptor’s “Flight of Birds”—
several ducks in flight, most skil-
fully and imaginatively carved
from what looks to have been
a hollow log of black bean
wood.
While one gazes at it the
wonder grows at several things—
at the grain and smoothness and
polish of the wood, at the per-
ception which saw what could
be made of it, and at the
ingenuity which reduced it to
the remaining beautiful essen-
tials, And while one wonders,
some nervous doubts arise—
does the attraction lie mainly in
the novelty and the dexterous
but conscious use of the
medium, or does it lie in the final
artistic result, in the vision of
its subject, birds in flight?
Then the ghost of Mr. Kipling
murmurs “It’s clever, but is it
art?” The reply comes imme-
diately: “Dammit, yes! Of
course it is! ” It is graceful and
beautiful, and, whatever the
medium and whatever the
zoological accuracy, it expresses
magnificently all the wild surging
freedom of flight.
There is not quite the same
certainty about the rest of the
sculpture. There is a “Lizard”
in blackboy-wood which is an
uncannily-observant bit of carv-
ing, and there is a “Hawk” in
basalt which catches something
of the arching neck and proud
threat of that particular bird.
There are also items such as
“Gossip” (a twisted mouth and
large distorted ear carved from
yellow box), sesthetic bird-
baths in sandstone and a dumpy
little “Animal” in sandstone
which looks rather like a fat,
angry kitten.
There are several other
impressions of things like
“Figure,” “Plant Form” and
“Fish,” and, while the subject-
matter is dimly recognisable in
most of them, the reasons for
the sculptor’s compressed or
attenuated impressions of them
are not.
Margo Lewers’s paintings are
mainly abstract designs, familiar
in style and not very clear in
purpose. Sometimes, as in
“Flowers,” “The Catch,”
“Vegetables” and “Insects,” the
purpose breaks dimly through
the patterns.
Douglas Annand.
Douglas Annand’s show of
watercolors at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, takes in places
from Wales to Colombo, from
London to Tiboora, and is, on
the whole, a frank and facile
report; a cheerful, uninhibited
assertion that the places under
examination are pleasant scenes
of bright and pleasant colors
and uncomplicated light.
More often than not, unfor-
tunately, that assertion leads
Annand to record (in “Snow in
Wales” and “Welsh Village”)
that the Welsh landscape is
perilously like a Christmas-card
scene; or (in “Cromwell Road,
London,” or “Russell Square,
that London is made
Up of excellent watercolor illus-
trations for magazines; or (in
paintings like “Fiesta, San
Giorgio, Portofino”) that such
jollifications are meticulously
modelled along lines to suit the
commercial illustrator.
It is, of course, barely possible
that Mr. Annand is right, but
there is most substantial evidence
against him in quite a number
of other paintings he has on
show ; paintings where the artist
sees a little more than with the
naked eye and adds his impres-
sion to the bare fact of illus-
tration.
There are, for instance, “The
Swings,” where a smooth and
well-lighted sky sets off the
pattern of green foliage and dark
tree-trunks; and there are the
charms of delicate color and
graceful line in “Still Life” and
“Parvis Notre Dame, Paris.”
“St. Peter’s, Petersham” is a
firm and agreeable little record
of the union which time seems
to form between the earth and
buildings on it, and “Cockington
Church,” if a shade too pic-
turesque, is, in its colors and
carefully-careless impression, as
warm and as crisp as an autumn
leaf.
Bargain Sale.
Of the current bargain sale
of pictures at prices ranging
from 10s. to three guineas at the
Victorian Artists’ Society, it
may be said that it was finan-
cially eminently successful, the
mad rush of prospective buyers
almost trampling to death the
entrepreneurs of the exhibition
who, when they were able to
recover, discovered they had
collected over £6OO in the first
two days, and had to send out
urgent calls to the delighted
artists to come in with more
pictures to hang on the almost-
bare walls.
Nothing like it had been seen
in Melbourne outside the Myer
Emporium or G. J. Coles’s.
Viewed from the artistic angle
some of the pictures sold were
bargains, notably a few by Myra
Gould, Lesley Sinclair,
Madeleine Jorgensen and others,
and some weren’t. Others were
aesthetically negligible and not
worthy of exhibition, though
they sold as readily as the good
ones. But quite a lot of nice
fresh work went to decorate
suburban drawing-rooms.
Paintings sent by Sidney Nolan
from Europe are showing at the
Stanley Coe Gallery in Mel-
bourne. Mr. Nolan is never


Public Notices.
I, RALF GNATT, of Danish nationality,
born at Tordenskjoldsgade 20, Copen-
hagen, resident two years in Australia,
now residing at 49 Fourth Avenue, Wil-
loughby, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, JACK WERTHEIMER, of Czech nation-
ality, born at JAKUBOV, resident one
year in Australia, now residing at 60
Nancy-street, Bondi, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Missing Friend.
TO JOHN WINSTONE, son of JOHN
GLENDARVINE WINSTONE and CATH-
ERINE FRANCES WINSTONE (nee
Crabtree), and any child or remoter
issue of the said John Winstone and any
person claiming by, through or under any
of them. Pursuant to an order of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
required to send in to the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Wellington, New Zealand,
your claim to share in the estate of
EDITH MATILDA NARBEY, late of
Christchurch, Widow, deceased, so as to
be received by the Public Trustee on or
before the 31st day of May, 1952, failing
-which such estate will be distributed dis-
regarding your claim.—THE SOLICITOR,
Public Trust Office, Wellington.
. Save Your Money,
Resist Spending,
Buy Bonds"
Dr. G. L Wood, Dean of the Faculty of Commerce.
University of Melbourne, advises how
“to stop prices
from rising”
In weighing up the advantages of
15 th Security Loan investment,
Dr. G. L. Wood said: "Nobody can
do much to stop the rise in prices
except people like you and me who
must spend money to live. But we
all want our money to buy more
rather than less, and the paradox is
that we must save rather than spend.
"The more we save, the more our
money will buy; the more we inflate
our money, and the more wastefully
we spend it, the less of essential
goods and services we get for every
pound.
"Far better to join a campaign for
lending all the money we can spare
to the Government for safe keeping,
at good interest, to stop prices from
rising, especially if we all work to
produce more. So save your money,
resist spending, buy Bonds, and
WAIT TILL THIS MONEY
CRISIS IS OVER.”
ISjjgflfSS
: v%
m
.
:
n
m
II
m
'M
|§|§l§g
wm
/
The 15th Security Loan opens on March 18, but there is no need to wait until
then to secure the many benefits it offers. You may make an advance subscrip-
tion at once. 10-13 Year Securities will bear interest at 3|% per annum, 3-Year
Securities at 2% per annum. Interest, which is subject to an Income Tax rebate
of 2/- in the £, will accrue from the date your funds are lodged at a bank. Sec
your bank, savings bank or stockbroker immediately.
Make an Advance Subscription to the
" SECURITY LOAN
OPENING MARCH 18
LOAN FACTS; (1) The Loan will provide for conversion of maturing Commonwealth Securities,
and help to pay for public works and services of the Commonwealth and the States.
(2) Advance subscriptions may be made through any Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
(3) 10-13 Year Securities will bear interest at 3j% per annum. 3-Year Securities will bear interest
at 2% per annum. (4) Minimum subscription for 10-13 Year Securities is £lO of Bonds or £lOO
of Inscribed Stock. Investors who already hold £lOO of Stock may subscribe £lO or more. For
3 .Year Securities the minimum subscription is £l,OOO of Bonds or Inscribed Stock. (5) Repayment
in full at maturity of face value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.
CONVERT YOUR MATURING SECURITIES: If you hold 2% Commonwealth Securities maturing
on April 15, 1952, you may convert your holdings into the 15th Security Loan,
5U.1i4.22
short of surprises. First he
excites the critics by bringing
duco into the respectable com-
pany of media for making pic-
tures. Then he paints huge
areas of country in which the
acreage of canvas almost equals
the acreage of landscape. This
time he paints tiny little pictures.
There is nothing very good or
very bad about the exhibition.
Some of the small pictures, like
“Madrid Cafe,” “Spanish Girl”
and “Guardix” are good begin-
nings, and have all the allure-
ment of beginnings and make
one think of what they would
be like if they were pushed
farther —would they be worse
or better? Others, like
“Cathedral Relics” and “Frag-
ments —Pompeii,” are stark
architectural drawings which
suggest stained-glass windows
without the color. They also
have all the charm of suggestion.
"Peep Show."
“Peep” is hardly the word for
anything on show at Sydney
Tiv. —as much as can possibly
be shown is the more accurate
description, and views and
spectacles offered in the current
programme are well up to the
usual generous standards.
The most spectacular item is
that provided by the Pan Yen
Troupe, seven Chinese who
introduce themselves while spin-
ning plates on the tops of long
bamboo sticks, and go on with
the spinning while performing
other involved contortions and
acrobatics. One of them
manages a remarkable bit of
balancing with a stick, a tray,
four glasses and eggs on top of
that, then contrives, by little
short of the miraculous, to break
the eggs into the glasses.
Another rides one of those
suicidal contraptions called
unicycles and, as though the
mere riding of it weren’t enough,
picks up a coat, puts it on, also
a hat, lights a cigarette and adds
a parasol and fan for good
measure —still riding.
Roger Ray, an easy-
mannered American comedian,
provides the show with most of
its humor, working it off on such
things as a xylophone he doesn’t
play, the possible terrors of
television and sundry other con-
venient things and people.
Marquis and family, the edu-
cated monkeys who have been
here before, demonstrate that
they have lost none of their skill
in riding cycles and motor-cycles
and imitating humans in other
ways ; Wally Boag comperes the
show and throws in some ven-
triloquism and eccentric danc-
ing ; the Glens have a standard
but good slack-rope act;
Violette tosses herself in acro-
batic dancing; Rosita and
Alexander go through some
slow-style dance-posing in rather
inappropriate neolithic costumes
and Lloyd Martin gives out with
some songs in a style that
suggests he might have heard the
late Richard Tauber sing at some
time.
The show is shot-through
with the customary excellent
costumes, settings and popular
songs ; the Tiv. lovelies, accord-
ing to the programme, have
become the Tivolovlies and are
as Tivolovly as ever.


m
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAkKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
jw.ta7B.is
ds
It’s {fiat Warn face
spin...
Like Cupid's arrow, an Ingram face goes straight to the
heart of feminine appreciation. You're right on the target
with a smooth Ingram face. A jar of Ingram Shaving
Cream is a promise of cool, smooth, easy shaving. Get
a jar from your Chemist today.
A Product of Bristol-Myers
1.5.31
BUM
shaving
CREAM
unto
WUa
fWiUi,
Main
fd
DIGRAM
SHAVING CREAM
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCE FAILS AND FEARS.
“France.... failed to meet
fully even the modest goals of
the 1951 N.A.T.O. programme,
and already her objective for
1952 has been reduced.”
“New York Times” military
writer Hanson W. Baldwin adds
some excuses for France: The
economic troubles that have hit
Britain so hard also ; failure of
the U.S. to deliver as large a
quantity of weapons and equip-
ment as had been expected.
Above all would have to be
rated the heavy cost, the severe
strain on resources in the Indo-
China war.
That war (a “New York
Times” Paris correspondent has
reported) absorbs each year
about one-third of the total
French defence expenditure.
Since the beginning of 1947 the
army in Indo-China, now num-
bering over 165,000 men, has
lost 29,000 dead, including 800
officers.
Sick of It
Reports that France is
now as keen to close the Indo-
China war as America is to end
the one in Korea score with both
barrels. French politicians
have freely expressed dissatisfac-
tion. Thus, M. Mendes-France:
“I am asking for a change of
policy in Indo-China.. . .As
long‘as you go on losing all these
officers and men in Indo-China,
as long as you go on spending
500 milliards a year you will
have no army in Europe, and
only 500-milliards’ worth of
inflation, poverty and fuel for
Communist propaganda.”
As another, M. Daladier has
asserted that so long as all those
French forces are “marooned”
in Indo-China, “France will not
only be hopelessly outnumbered
[in Europe] but will also be
unable to control her posses-
sions in Africa. It is asking
for trouble ; it is like inviting
the U.S. to build up Germany
as Europe’s Number One Mili-
tary Power.”
M. Reynaud also: “A Euro-
pean army without British
participation is, in effect, a
Franco-German army. As long
as France is engaged in Indo-
China, it means largely a
German army.”
Target Missed
Whatever “alibis” may be ad-
vanced, the result is that
France, which was to have
had 10 divisions (five active and
five reserve) ready by the
end of 1951, had five almost
ready, the other five about half-
ready. The goal of 15 divisions
by the end of 1952 has been
re-established at 12.
And the idea of France being
able to put 20 divisions in the
field by the end of next year—
the “manpower backbone of the
West’s European command”—
has been written off as practi-
cally hopeless.
Yet —despite Schuman Plans
for French-German co-opera-
tion and other such signs—so
deep-rooted are the French fears
of, and enmity to, Germany that
(as cabled) a merely tentative
and much-qualified vote for
bringing in German troops only
barely scraped through.
In fact, French opposition
could even yet wreck the whole
scheme. As “Manchester
Guardian” puts it: “The French
Assembly looks like damning
the European army with faint
approval The European
army looks like tumbling to
bits.” In that case, says a
“New York Times” correspon-
dent, the U.S. Congress would
be likely to clamp down on aid
to France, and might even favor
arming the Germans on a
national basis.
Which would mean that the
French, through their fear,
would have brought about just
what they don’t want —the re-
surgence of a German army.
Eruption Pending
Though visitors to France
may get the impression of
a country “where internal
peace and order are established,
where political and civil liberties
prevail, and where life seems
easier and less anxious than in
Britain,” a London “Twentieth
Century” writer, G. F. Hudson,
signposts a volcano dormant
beneath that surface.
“It is,” he contends, “only
necessary to consider the size of
the Communist and Gaullist
votes in order to realise how
large a proportion of the French
electorate gives its adherence to
undemocratic creeds ; as long as
the power of the State remains
firmly in the hands of democratic
parties, the totalitarian factors
cannot manifest themselves in
violence and terror, and may
vTr 1^
ds
dsf
‘fsggS'
1
fern?/?
London "News Chronicle."
HE JUST DIDN’T HAVE A CLUE!
(M. Faure, the defeated French Prime Minister, writes popular
crime-fiction in his spare time.)
even appear to conform to
democratic practice, but their
dictatorial intention remains,
and at any time a crisis may
bring it out into practical
politics.
“There is indeed a kind of
split-personality in contemporary
France; there is a France of
law and order and constitutional
rights, of Parliamentary elec-
tions and openly - expressed
opinion, and another France of
latent violence and secret
organisation, full of memories
and anticipations of massacre
and terror.
“The second France dwells
underground as in the shadows
of the catacombs, but it could
at any time rise to the surface
and replace the other self of the
French people.”
Aftermath
France’s “submerged world of
totalitarian politics” is seen
as a sequel to the “deep
division” of the nation during
and just prior to the war.
Neither Britain nor the U.S. was
afflicted by anything com-
parable ;
“Paris may have suffered less
than London from the bombs of
the Luftwaffe, but the wounds
of civil hatred have hurt France
in a manner of which the
average Englishman has no con-
ception. France has seen Ger-
man violence done to French-
men with the direct or indirect
complicity of Frenchmen; it
has also seen vengeance taken on
real or alleged ‘collaborators’
without even a form of law, and
often by people who had the
least right to take it.
“France today is full of men
who have killed fellow-country-
men at their discretion without
legal justification and of families
which have lost members
through such killing. It is not
to be expected that all that has
so recently happened should
have left no trace in the French
spirit or that countless crimes of
treason and of lynch-law should
not have formed habits utterly
contrary to the practice of a
liberal democracy.”
Indo-China Next.
France hasn’t this altogether
on its own, but it has been more
pressing than most in trying to
get an armistice in Korea at
almost any cost, hoping then to
be able to negotiate a general
agreement with Peking that
would keep Chinese troops out
of Indo-China.
But, London “Economist” has
commented, an armistice without
a definite change of mood in
Peking might have just the
opposite effect; it might free
China for concentration to the
south instead of to the east.
France’s additional trouble in
Tunisia is generally looked on as
making the danger of a Chinese
Communist “adventure” in
Indo-China all the more prob-
able a sequel to Korea.
“The Chinese Communists,”
London “Daily Telegraph” has
commented, “may have been
encouraged to believe that Indo-
China presents them with a
comparatively easy target and
with the opportunity of compen-
sating them for their frustration
in Korea. Its conquest would
certainly yield them rich gains.”
What would happen in that
event has been made plain by
the U.S.-British-French state-
ment that fresh Chinese aggres-
sion anywhere in South-East
Asia will be met.
The alternative (in the words
of a New York “Herald Tri-
bune” correspondent) would be
to “bow to aggression and take
the consequences, which in the
Indo-China case would probably
amount to final defeat in the
cold war.”
French correspondent Robert
Guillain (of Paris “Le Monde”
and “Manchester Guardian”), in
one of a recent series of copy-
right articles emphasised a fact
probably not widely realised.
What is being defended in Indo-
China, he pointed out, is any-
thing but a narrow French in-
terest. In fact, the French are
not fighting to stay on in Indo-
China but to be able to leave
it!
In other words, a victory for
the French would mean their
departure, France having given
Vietnam a promissory-note that
will leave the French nothing
except what little Vietnam will
agree to allow them.
Actually (Guillain wrote),
France has given Vietnam more
than a promise; she has given
full independence, to which the
war is now the only limitation.
If the war ends France will have
to honor her signature. The
French will have nothing left to
do ; at best a few French officials
will stay on in the Vietnam
service. Even without waiting
for the end of the conflict the
French are making room for the
Vietnamese wherever possible in
an attempt to lighten their burden
by at least a partial “substitu-
tion,” both civil and military.
If they could they would even
hand on to the Vietnamese the
task of fighting the war.
The French correspondent
emphasised also how much is at
stake. If Indo-China gives way,
he declared, everything will give
way; or at any rate South-East


±ZmO
THE
SHOW
4th to 15th April, 1952
Ready for
• . • make 9 52 your Bumper Year—with
FORDSON MAJOR
Farmers with a weather-eye on costs, are buying more
Fordson Majors than any other make of tractor!
SEEDING is only one of the many jobs that Fordson
Major does thoroughly and very economically.
SEEDING is also a job that won’t wait. Don’t
gamble on a last minute delivery ORDER YOUR
FORDSON MAJOR NOW/ There’s a model to suit
your soil conditions and to work with your trailing
and attached implements. And after Seeding ?
There’s no end to jobs that Fordson Major can do
right through to harvesting . . . plus the incidental
jobs like pumping water, cutting wood, digging post-
holes etc. SERVICE is nation-wide anywhere
anytime ! Standard equipment on all models includes:
Lights, Starter, Brakes, Belt Pulley, Radiator Shutters
and Power Take-off. And the best bit of news is
the last Fordson Major’s prices are lower than
other makes!
COMPARE THESE PRICES WITH THOSE OF ANY OTHER TRACTOR:
IMPORTANT
Order right
away!
Fordson Major Farms Australia
Enquire from your nearest Fordson Dealer
FM26-HP
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
AUSTRALIA PTY.
Asia will begin to fall to the
other side piece by piece.
Meanwhile, the French have
lately been suffering ominous set-
backs, giving weight to the re-
cent finding of a London “Daily
Telegraph” special correspond-
ent:
“The crust of resistance in
Indo-China is thin indeed.”
Canadian Saga.
Canada’s extraordinary leap
ahead in recent years, as
editorially viewed by New
York “Times”:
“No one can read the saga
of Canada’s economic progress
since 1940 without being im-
pressed by the energy and re-
sourcefulness of the Canadian
people and the wealth of their
land.
“From an overwhelmingly
agricultural country Canada has
been transformed into one of the
great industrial countries of the
world, having both the raw-
materials and plant capacity
justifying its evaluation as one
of the major arsenals of free-
dom.
“Under Canada’s soil, it is
now evident, lie some of the
richest deposits of iron ore,
petroleum, uranium, nickel and
other vital commodities avail-
able anywhere. These have been
developed swiftly in recent years
by Canadian industry and
ingenuity.”
Olympic "Amateurs. "
Soviet Russia and the Com-
munist States were allowed into
the next Olympic Games ; but
there were differences of opinion
on it.
The opposers—who lost —
argued that (a) amateurism is
unknown in Communist States ;
(b) the Communist outlook on
sport is inconsistent with the
ideals of the Olympic Games.
It brought a letter to London
“Times” from no other than
Montgomery of Alamein (as
president of the Kandahar Ski-
club), allowing that both those
points were probably true, but
adding;
“In a Communist State every
adult is employed by the State:
an athlete is as much a profes-
sional as a school-teacher or a
doctor or a commissar.
“True amateurism depends on
a free Press in which scandals
can be ventilated and on the
right to protest against infringe-
ment of the rules. Neither of
these conditions prevails in
Russia. Every factory has its
paid teams who do no work in
the factory and who receive
special rations.
“Whether the Olympic Games
should or should not be amateur
is a question of opinion. That
they have ceased to be amateur
is a question of fact.
“We cannot contend with two
different types of amateurism.
Eastern and Western. It is my
( view that the Olympic Com-
mittee acted rightly in admitting
Russia to the Games: we must
neglect no step that will help to
bring East and West together,
“But the committee should now
draw the logical conclusion from
that decision and should make
all events open—i.e,, open to
amateurs and professionals.”
Dragnet Digest.
Britain, Power or Platoon ? —-
London “Daily Express,” as
staunchly Empire-first as ever:
“Britain can have the choice of
remaining the centre of an inde-
pendent Empire or of becoming
a small and unimportant platoon
in a European army. She can-
not possibly be both.”
They Know U.N.O. —Edin-
burgh “Scotsman,” tersely: “It
is difficult to share Mr. Eden’s
view that the U.N. Assembly’s
decision to start work on a dis-
armament convention is a sign
of improvement. It is more
likely to be a waste of time.”
Burmese Take a Ride. —A
London “Daily Telegraph”
writer’s summing-up: “It is
characteristic of the cheery
optimism of the Burmese, and
their refusal to face unpleasant
facts, that they are firmly con-
vinced of the friendliness of
Red China towards them.
They cannot see that like the
young lady of Riga they have
been taken for a ride.”
Each for Each, None for All.
—Why at least some of the Con-
tinentals are all for federation,
as London “Time and Tide”
sees them: “Certain elements in
the French and German Gov-
ernments see in a Continental
Federation a means of winning
the leadership of Europe for
their respective nations. The
Italians, on their side, hope to
exercise great influence within
such a federation by holding a
balance between the other two.”
U.S. Atlantic Admiral.
“New York Times” retort to
critics (loudest in Britain): “As
in the case of General Eisen-
hower, the appointment of an
American admiral to the supreme
Atlantic command originated
with Europeans themselves. It
was first proposed by France,
Norway and the Netherlands,
and was approved by then Prime
Minister Attlee of Britain —that
is, by the Governments of
nations which between them
possess most of the European
naval forces of the alliance.”
Uncle Hercules Sam. —A few
pointers to the vastness of the
U.S. war-peace effort noted in
London “News Chronicle”
comment: In a year’s time the
U.S. will be making 120 million
tons of steel a year—as much as
the rest of the world put to-
gether. There are now three
and a half million men and
women in the American armed
forces. Armament deliveries are
running at the rate of £535
million-worth a month. This
rate will be doubled by 1953.
U.S. Bases in Britain. —Quite
a noise was made about Mr.
Churchill’s supposed achieve-
ment in securing American
agreement on the U.S. air bases
in Britain not being used “in
an emergency” without joint
consultation. So much eyewash,
says (in effect) an Edinburgh
“Scotsman” correspondent,
“since it is technically impossible
for American planes in Britain
to get into the air, let alone
drop a ‘fire-cracker’ on Moscow,
without not only the consent
but the active co-operation of
the R.A.F. and the British
Government.”
Spur to a Truce. —One strong
reason why America, or at any
rate the Truman (Democratic)
Administration, is willing to
make concessions in Korea
noted by a Washington
correspondent of London
“Economist” is that otherwise,
this being U.S. Presidential
election year, the Republicans
will have a splendid case against
a party “which knows how to
get the country into war, but
does not know how to get it
out again.” It isn’t the only
thing in international affairs that
the still-distant election will
affect from now on.
A Capital Need. —Among the
headaches worrying J. Bull,
London “Financial Times” sees
an extra-severe one shaping up:
“Without our enterprises over-
seas Britain would long ago
have become and remained an
overpopulated and insolvent
island. But where in future will
the capital come from to finance
development in our Colonial
Empire and elsewhere? Of the
many grave problems facing this
country, that is one of the most
pressing.”
British Atom-bomb Test. —A
Washington correspondent of
London “Times” reports that the
decision to test Britain’s atom-
bomb in Australia wasn’t
altogether a matter of resent-
ment at U.S. restrictions on
exchange of information :
“There are apprehensive reports
that the British programme of
atomic artillery is going better
than the American.”
Happy Wallabies. —A London
“Times” correspondent, looking
in at the zoo there on the
fine day they had this winter,
became lyrical: “On such a day
one of the most charming sights
is that of the wallabies—chiefly
Bennett’s wallaby from Tas-
mania, though there has recently
been added tp the collection a
pair of the smaller Dama
wallabies from the Australian
mainland. These wallabies roam
loose about the park, and their
joy on a bright winter day is to
congregate in parties of a dozen
or so on the sunny edge of a
wood or plantation, nibbling
contentedly or leaning their
backs against the tree-trunks and
warming their stomachs in the
sun,”


- • -
n
Fly British by 8.0.A.C.
from Australia-on any
of 1,000 Speed bird Routes
COVERS All
6 tOHTIHmf
-FLIES TO 165 CITIES AND
TOWNS IN 51 COUNTRIES
-with an all-pressurized Speedbird Fleet
8.0.A.C. really takes good care of
you—on Speedbird routes to almost
anywhere ! You can fly on one ticket
all the way. You can relax in deep-
seated comfort, enjoy complimentary
meals and meal-time drinks and
courteous friendly attention —on four-
engined Speedbird aircraft pressurized
for smooth above-the-weather flying.
No tips ; no extras.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA
MALAYA • HONG KONG • JAPAN
CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
MIDDLE EAST • AFRICA • EUROPE
GREAT BRITAIN • U.S.A. • CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
• BERMUDA
AM/AU
Information & Bookings ; Qantas Empire Airways Ltd,, ( 8.0.A.C,
Control Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin
or from travel agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Lm, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Missing Beneficiaries.
CRICHTON McDOUALL, formerly of
“Calliungal” Station, via Wowan, in the
State of Queensland, but late of “Cal-
liope” Station, Mount Larcom, in the
said State, Grazier, deceased. —AFTER
fourteen clear days from today JAMES
LOOKIE WILSON, of 125 Mary Street,
Toowoomba, in the State of Queensland,
Grazier, the lawful brother-in-law of the
said deceased, RICHARD STRUTII
WILSON, of “Calliope” Station, Mount
Larcom, in the said State, Grazier, and
MAY McDOUALL, of 50 Fiddeus Wharf
Road, Killara, in the State of New South
Wales, Spinster, the lawful sister of the
said deceased, the Executors appointel
by the deceased’s Will dated the second
day of March, 1944, will apply in the
Supreme Court, Rockhampton, for Probate
of this Will. Any person interested who
desires to object to this application or
to be heard upon it may file a caveat in
the Registry at Rockhampton at any time
before the Grant is made. —0. P. STUMM,
executors, 10 William Street, Rockhamp-
ton.
RB WILLIAM TURNER, late of 26
Featherbed Lone, Withycombe-Raleigh,
Exmouth, Devon, formerly of Bonville,
Exeter Road. Exmoutb, Devon, England,
and of Daylesford, Victoria, and of
Deagon, Brisbane; left Australia for Eng-
land in 1947. Would any Solicitor, person
or company holding a Will of the above-
named, who died on 18th December, 1951,
kindly communicate with CHAMBERS,
McNAB & CO.. 88 Queen Street, Brisbane?
o
Ob
weather hot
weather cold
the call is for refreshing
long or short drinks
made with
Vickers gin
Good new ideas for long delicious thirst-
quenchers or cheering, warming cocktails . . «
are yours for the asking.
A free copy of Vickers Cocktail Book, containing
over 50 tested recipes for cocktails and long
drinks, will be sent to you on request by The
United Distillers Pty. Ltd., Box 759, G.P.0.,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Vickers Cocktail Book is
more than a collection of
recipes, it’s a complete
guide to cocktail mixing,
gives valuable “profes-
sional” hints, even lists
everything needed to start
a private “Bar”. Write
for your free copy now!
fds
VG 51/14
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“A man crouched down at the side
of the house. He wore a black mask,
the only part of his face being visible
were his eyes and nose, a dark
sweater, black trousers and black
sandshoes.” — Short story.
A disguise with some unusual
features.
4- 4* 4*
“Warialda rifle-shoot, the largest
club shoot north of Sydney... .Wet
canteen and luncheon-booth on
range, ambulance.”
— Advt. in Warialda “Standard.”
One way or another they
seemed to expect someone to get
shot.
4* 4* 4*
“Have you noticed how often some-
one knocks on the door or the tele-
phone rings when you are in the
middle of kneading dough?”
—Correspondent in women’s paper.
Well, dear, instalment-collec-
tors need it, too.
“There’s not a woman alive who
doesn’t slave at building herself
nearer to her heart’s desire.”
— Women’s magazine.
Even though the sight is un-
attractive.
4* 4* 4*
“A Paris chemist has invented a
process that will make a suit of
clothes wear for 40 years.”
Now all he needs is a process
to stabilise fashions for a similar
period.
Nailed.
A cubicle, just you and me,
Some pots and potions on a
stand
So small that contact of your
knee
On mine disturbs my pulse,
my hand
Supine in yours, your grace,
your touch
Caressing as you snip and
polish,
Conspire to charm me inasmuch
My native caution they
demolish.
Then, as with surreptitious
glances
You sum me up what time
you snip, you
{The while I’m reckoning my
chances)
Are calculating what I’ll tip
you.
PERCIVAL.
My Friend Mecho.
Manchester University has
been boasting about its elec-
tronic brain which, among other
things, can sing “God Save the
Queen” and diagnose its own
complaints. There’s really noth-
ing new about the invention. I
had one once; my friend
Rumpelmayer made it for me.
It could do anything —and I
don’t just mean simple things
like calculating the number of
grains in the 1951 wheat harvest
or the number of atoms in a
spiral nebula. Problems like
those were hardly worth its
attention ; it would just toss off
the answers in an offhand way
in the middle of a lecture on
Chinese art under the Ming
dynasty or an exposition of the
principles of nuclear fission.
Mecho, as we called our
mechanical man, liked his pro-
blems to come in batches. If
you asked him to run a hundred
yards in nine seconds he’d do it
all right, but on the way he’d
juggle half-a-dozen eggs, a
carving-knife and a couple of
hand-grenades, at the same time
translating one of Shakspeare’s
sonnets into Tibetan blank-verse
and scoring it for use on the
praying-wheel.
Naturally Mecho was a
dabster at chess. I remember
once seeing him play 100 games
simultaneously, moving swiftly
from board to board. Nothing
remarkable in that, of course.
Plenty of human chess-
champions have done it. But it
was what Mecho did in between
moves that made it unusual. I
didn’t keep a complete list, but
I know that among other things
he corrected the proofs of his
autobiography; cooked two
dozen doughnuts and a batch of
scones; ghosted speeches for two
"He Wants to know where HE came from!"
politicians of opposing parties ;
sexed 1500 day-old chicks;
picked the card at Randwick ;
sent a cable to U.N.O. demand-
ing human rights for
mechanical men ; took over and
completed a delicate brain-
operation after the leading
specialist had lost his nerve half-
way through the job ; dashed off
a self-portrait which would have
won the Archibald Prize but for
the fact that it was someone
else’s turn that year ; judged an
egg-laying competition ; hit up
a brilliant century for the
district cricket-team ; assisted at
a lottery-drawing ; expounded a
plan for eliminating losses on
State transport; planted two
acres of early potatoes ; recorded
a bracket of songs, a comedy
sketch and a half-hour quiz-
session for radio; conjugated a
complete list of French irregular
verbs, including several pre-
viously unknown ones which he
explained had been lost since the
time of Charlemagne; classi-
fied a 400-bale wool-clip;
matched some material my wife
had combed every store in
Sydney for; put through a
radiophone call to Paris and
suggested a solution to the cur-
rent political crisis; called at the
Traffic Court and talked his way
out of a parking-fine, and all the
time carried on light conversa-
tion with the other players and
those who had gathered to watch
the games.
Most of his opponents were
beaten before he took the scones
out of the oven ; only a dozen
were left when he handed the
scalpel back to the surgeon, and
by the time he took off his
batting-gloves the field was
down to three. Two of these he
checkmated simultaneously half-
way through the wool-clip. That
left only one board, but the man
who should have been playing
it had slipped out for a quickie
and failed to return. Technically
Mecho had won on a forfeit, but
he sportingly continued the
game, playing both Black and
White so deftly that he almost
beat himself, and it was only by
sheer genius that he finally
forced a draw.
Mecho could sing, too. Not
merely simple things like “God
Save”; he had a complete
repertoire of Grand Opera and
a range from basso to soprano.
To hear him using all his voices
simultaneously and in perfect
harmony was a thing to be re-
membered. He could compose,
too, and used to do his own
orchestration, afterwards repro-
ducing the notes of the various
instruments and conducting him-
self as a one-man orchestra.
We’d have gone a long way,
Mecho and I. I could see it all
—triumphant tburs, Covent
Garden, La Scala, the Metro-
politan Opera—but unfortun-
ately at that stage Rumpelmayer
made the same mistake the
Manchester people are making.
He tinkered around with Mecho
and gave him the ability to
diagnose his own mistakes. That
was the end of it. From that
time on Mecho would never get
further than the first line of a
song, ft was a matter of full-
stop, and start all over again.
I got sick and tired of the
repetition and told him to snap
out of it,
“I can’t,” he said. “Not till
I get it right.”
“It sounds all right to me,”
I said.
“No doubt it does. No doubt
it sounds all right to any human
ear, but / know different. That
new gadget Rumpy put inside
me tells me.”
“Skip it,” I urged him. “We’re
only out to please human audi-
ences, after all.”
“I can’t skip it,” said Mecho.
“As long as I know it’s wrong,
no matter how slightly, I’m com-
pelled by my very makeup to
start again.”
“Well, if you know it’s
wrong,” said I, “why don’t you
correct it?”
“That’s just the trouble,” said
Mecho. “I can’t. You see, I
didn’t realise it before, but I’m
tone-deaf.”
JASBY.
Impromptueue.
A charming young girl in a
queue
Found herself in a bit of a
stueue,
Becoming aware
That a horrible tear
Was exposing her rear vueue to
vueue.
C.S.


<r\
l«
J
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
9 Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
9 Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable tor
highest power rifles.
9 Very long eye relief.
® Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2£x —Eye relief 3|in.
to Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
f
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
RfcG
SPARKING PLUGS
WITH
‘CORUNDITE*
INSULATION
I
df
S. SMITH Sc SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
ds
d
HOS 6
H
A
f
i-
-
k 3
WRONG
■N
RIGHT
7
WRONG
JS\
RIGHT
a
WRON
%
Check overhanging
loads too as the leverage
multiplies wheel loads' y
RIGHT
a
and you'll save on tyres!
It’s not only over loading that cuts short tyre life.
Uneven loading is tough on tyres too producing
dangerous swaying, causing wheels and tyres to
carry unequal shares of the load. It takes no
longer to load your vehicle evenly-yet this saves
pounds on tyre bills. Get the most out of your
tyres by checking load capacity and correct dis*
tribution of weight every trip.
... and for extra mileage.
DUNLOP
SUPER
CAR AND
TRUCK TYRES
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED line. In VTf
01006
‘TODAY YOU’LL USE A DUNLOP PRODUCT’
SERVICE
DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy copy of the “Reader’s
Digest” of June, 1945; also wanted,
words and music of the “Marseil-
laise. ”—5273.
Words of old song containing the
lines: —
I tried to guard her footsteps,
But she went the other way.
—5274.
The libretto of “The Arcadians.” —
5275.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Re-
citer. —5277.
Does Anybody Know?
Whereabouts of descendants of D.
Nicolle in Australia; also which
building in Ice-street, Darlinghurst
(Sydney) was the one where he ran
his iceworks. —5276.
Information Sought.
Method of waterproofing hessian ?
A coarse, open-textured material
like hessian can only be shower-
proofed if the interstices in the weav-
ing are filled with a paint mixture.
A reliable, colorless waterproofing
compound called Repellex can be pro-
cured from C. E. Rankin and Co.,
24 Bond-street, Sydney, and is used
on materials which have not pre-
viously been treated. A formula for
home use is as follows: Mix two
parts boiled linseed-oil with one part
raw-oil, and paint the material; rather
slow-drying. A little goldsize can be
added as a drier. Ihe method of
treatment chosen depends on whether
the hessian is to be tacked up or
used as a flexible coyer with some
handling.
H* H*
When a flag is flown half-mast how
far from the truck should it be ?
Origin of the custom of flying flags
half-mast ?
The accepted position of a flag at
half-mast is one-third down from the
truck. If the mast is on top of a tall
building the flag may be half-way
down so that no mistake would be
made from the roadway. When
flown from a gafi it would be
approximately half-way down froifi
the gaff. The tradition of this custom
is almost lost in antiquity—one story
is that when an owner-master of a
sailing-ship died at sea the royals were
reefed in black material; another is
that the Venetian doges were wont to
fly their black-and-purple cloaks from
the mizzen-mast of their boats when
they were afloat, and this was half-
masted if one died at sea.
* * * *
Who are the boxing champions of
Australia in every division, from fly-
weight to heavyweight, and what is
the weight limit of each division ?
Australian boxing champions are:
flyweight (weight limit 8st.), Taffy
Hancock; bantam (8st. 61b.),. Jimmy
Carruthers; featherweight (9st.), Elly
Bennett; lightweight (9st. 91b.),
Frankie Flannery; welterweight (lOst.
71b.), Len Dittraar; Dave Sands is
middle (list. 61b.), light-heavy (12st.
71b.) and heavyweight (over 12st. 71b.)
champion of Australia.
* * * #
How did Hansard get its name?
Hansard, the official report of pro-
ceedings in the British and most
Dominion Parliaments, derived its
name from a family of printers for
long connected with the printing of
them. Luke Hansard (1752-1828) was
printer of the House of Commons
arid printed the “Journals of the
House of Commons” from 1774 till
his death. But it was his son, Thomas
Curson Hansard (1776-1833) from
whom the name actually derived.
T. C. Hansard founded a printing-
press of his own, and published “Cob-
bett’s Parliamentary Debates” (begun
in 1800), taking it over completely in
1829 and renaming it “Hansard’s
Parliamentary Debates.” In 1889 the
name Hansard was dropped from the
title, but it is as Hansard that the
reports are still usually known.
Brief Answers.
N. K.: Write Gaston C. Renard,
antiquarian bookseller, Box 5295,
G.P.O., Melbourne... .L.A.: The
works may be seen at the Fisher
Library, University of Sydney
W.H.E.: Write Commonwealth Statis-
tician, Federal Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra, A.C.T B.M.:
Write G. R. Pitta way and E. I.
Hyde, Box 28, 380 Collins-street,
Melbourne... .E.N.A.: Earth Wall
Construction by G. F. Middleton, of
the Commonwealth Experimental
Building Station, contains three parts:
(1) pise or rammed earth, (2) adobe
or puddled earth, and (3) stabilised
earth... .N.H.: A “Jacky Howe” is
a short-sleeved shirt favored by
shearers. Jack Howe was a champion
shearer in the 1890’s. His tally of
320 sheep turned off the blades, made
at Alice Downs (Q.), still stands as a
world record... .R.L.C.: Creative
Writing in Australia by John K.
Ewers, published by Georgian House,
Melbourne... .H.S.McK.: Collected
Flower Pieces by Helen Blaxland (27s.
6d.), obtainable from leading book-
sellers F.J.J.: Captain Starlight
by Frank Clune, published by the
Hawthorn Press, Melbourne H.F.:
Sydney Writers’ Club, Box 4999,
G.P.O., Sydney H.C.H.: No, the
process is different, and even if it
were undertaken would make a poor
job. Best sold for old silver
J.C.I.: A mixture of vinegar and salt
applied with a woollen cloth. Mix-
ture should be washed off quickly.
Anty fine abrading powder would do
the work unless very hard-set.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is unaertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor
H.W.: “Nijinsky Never” —never;
“Rump Steak” too tough L.R.:
What a boar... .T.P.M.: We admit
it’s hard to do anything new about
drovers H.W,: Much too slight.
M.I.P.: Poor pi’ gran’pop....
S.H.C.: Nice and sad J.E.: If he
left England because his union said
his son worked too hard on the piece-
work, he’s due for a wake-up in
Australia S.G.C.: Pleasant enough,
but amateurish... .G.E.M.: Don’t
use “thou”... .Fantail: Featherweight.
. ...P.K.: “Tell me, is this as good
as I think it is?” Not half....
0.V.: Sing it to the music of a
bicycle riding rapidly in the wrong
direction 0.D.: No wonder she
doesn’t love you—if you showed her
your poetry H.G.T.: If they were
good Scots when they took the Stone,
what were they when they returned it?
J.N.: Piling desolation of the
heart upon desolation of the land is
easy and effective, but so is cutting
your throat W.F.: “You might
say Nick is half neurotic and you
might be right.” You said it, boy.
W.L.: Your gawky, adolescent
prose J.W.: The strangest thing
about your man who became a
monkey is that it took so many
words F.N.: A bit rough-and-
ready... .A.E.H.: Thin... .A.E.C.:
Rusty rustlers E. 1.: Not bad, but
not quite N.M.: As a general rule
stories about authors, editors, artists,
etc., disqualify themselves... .A.D.:
“South Sea Island Affair” no affair
of ours C.L.A.A.: He should have
stayed and seen if she meant it
J. 0.: So many aboriginal love-stories
look like women’s magazine stories
translated into pidgin.


LYS
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting .
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
BSw
imtm ■■
m
'mm*
■ M
■ ■
J3r* i
■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd.
Reg d Office & Works, BlackwaU Pt. Road, Five Dock
City Office, 17 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SPECIFY
“LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NET TING.
ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing Small Clips.
“Ngaduri”: Lower prices for
wool necessitate a great deal
more care to get the best
averages. The brokers do a very
good job for those unable or in-
capable of classing their own
clips, but the cost is taken off
the price.
In a small clip quality should
be subservient to strength and
length. First take a good look at
the sheep in the yard just before
shearing. The smaller the flock
the greater will be the variation
per thousand; therefore what
would comprise several lines in a
big flock must be grouped into
one line in a small flock, and in
his prior survey of a flock the
classer must decide what his
lines will be.
They should rarely exceed
four main lines, comprising his
longest and finest in one line, his
longest and strongest in another,
his short and fine fleeces (which
may comprise half a bale), and
his shorter, stronger fleeces
which may comprise another half
bale. In addition he will prob-
ably get about half a bale of
discolored and perished-looking
wools and some straight steely
wools, some with kemp or hair.
Then there are the unsound
fleeces which, whatever their
character, quality or color and
length, should be always kept
apart.
The hardest thing to do in
classing is to resist the tempta-
tion to keep out the few really
very good fleeces in the hope of
trying to get a bale of them.
Invariably such bales start off
with good quality fleeces and
gradually deteriorate as the clip
is shorn. The very good fleeces
—and there will be only a few
in a small clip— must be put in
with the main lines. They will
improve the price for the lot and
will improve its appearance
when opened on the floor.
Saving them for the top of the
bale is more likely to prejudice
a buyer against the whole clip
than to impress him. He is going
to buy the whole bale and he
sees to it that he inspects the
whole bale.
Pieces should get as much care
as fleeces. I always skirt a fleece
twice. First time round I take
off the burry and fribby bits,
which go in the locks ; they com-
prise the stuff from front and
back flanks, lower parts of the
legs, jaw-piece and the cap.
Second time round I get all that
is inferior to the general quality
of the fleece. Leg pieces and
dewlap are in this and, occasion-
ally, a strip from an open,
perished back-line. These make
the pieces. Discolored pieces
from discolored fleeces are not
removed at all, except for a
superficial skirting for locks.
Shed supervision helps to get
a good price. Insist on the boy
sweeping away the crutch when
the shearer turns to go up the
neck. This gives the boy ample
time to pick out his stained
wool and place the rest in the
box of board locks. Though
some shearers don’t like it, I
insist that the boy picks out the
kempy stuff from the first fore-
leg as it drops on the fleece.
Last year I told the shearers not
to remove any wool below knees
and hocks. Instead, I do it my-
self at the crutching immediately
prior to shearing. That short
stuff goes in better with the
crutchings than with the fleece
wool.
Keep the shed, and particu-
larly the wool-room, scrupul-
ously clean. The wool should
be pressed as soon as there is a
bale of it in the bins, as it other-
wise tends to gather dust and grit
and becomes much less
attractive. Bins should be care-
fully cleared of all traces of last
year’s wool and washed before
the start, and they should be
constructed of timber planed all
round or of wire-netting, so that
they can be kept clean. The
shed-hands should never be
allowed to step on wool, how-
ever small the pieces.
Wheat Decline.
“Grano”: A survey by
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture of cropping practices in
the skeleton-weed parts of the
Riverina shows a decline in the
proportion of arable land sown
to wheat from 33 to 18 per cent.
Farmers gave as the main
reasons for the decline: spread
of skeleton-weed, declining soil-
fertility (forcing them to spell
the land) and high wool prices
compared with wheat prices.
Why, they ask, should they
listen to planners and politicians
who want to push them back
into growing more wheat?
With the reduced wheat-acreage
and the correspondingly greater
area of pasture for stock wheat-
growers are immediately better-
off financially by producing
wool and meat than by growing
wheat, and it also means con-
serving soil-fertility. In other
words thev are making more
money now and expect to make
more in the future.
One reason given for main-
taining high wheat production is
that Australian wheat is required
to feed starving Asiatic peoples.
But is it a good national policy
to exhaust the fertility of our
wheat-lands for this purpose?
Want of thought is apparent
in high places. We can grow
other food for Asia, such as rice,
sorghum, peanuts, on land not
flogged by generations of wheat-
growing. Our rice-growing areas
are only limited by what water
we can put on them.
Great Britain is not now get-
ting butter from Australia—the
British Government which
wasted £30,000,000 on the great
African peanut fiasco would
have got a far better result by
investing the money in Australia.
We may have to come to pea-
nuts ourselves to provide the best
substitute for butter —margarine
—if the decline in our dairy
production continues.
Meantime the problem of the
declining wheat acreage won’t be
solved by “stabilisation” schemes,
Canberra conferences or political
claptrap. It will be solved only
by the farmers, and they w'on’t
be growing wheat while it pays
them better to grow meat and
wool.
Hormone Warning.
“Billjim”: A warning is
issued by Vic. Department of
Agriculture on the danger of
hormone weedicides used near
growing crops. Vines are
particularly susceptible.
Equipment, the department
says, must be thoroughly
cleaned. If the weed-killer is
water-soluble, wash the outfit in
several changes of water. Fill
with hot soapy water containing
two tablespoonfuls of household
ammonia to a gallon, agitate and
allow to stand overnight.
Where an oil-based weed-
killer is used the safest way is to
keep a separate spray outfit or
separate set of rubber hoses.
Use M.C.P.A. or sodium of
amine salts of 2.4 D on suscep-
tible plants like cauliflowers and
tomatoes. Avoid 2,4, 5-T and
the emulsion form of 2.4 D.
Pullomm.
“Myrr”: A disease which has
caused enormous losses in the
Victorian poultry industry over
the past 20 years, pullorum, is
gradually being brought under
control. Chief weapon in the
campaign is the pullorum-tested
flocks scheme.
The Department of Agri-
culture blood-tests breeding
stock and lists pullorum-free
flocks in its monthly Journal.
This has eliminated many flocks
which formerly supplied diseased
eggs and young stock to the un-
suspecting. The department
strongly advises buyers to co-
operate by buying eggs and
young stock only from owners
of tested flocks. Advice on the
disease may be obtained from
the department.
Sweet Lupins.
“Lupinus”: Though New
Zealand blue field lupins con-
tain a bitter poisonous alkaloid
they are grown to some extent as
a fodder of high protein content
for fattening lambs in that
country. Losses are avoided by
taking lambs off the feed as
soon as they show signs of
staggering.
The West Australian blue
lupin is a totally different species,
being the somewhat popular
garden plant. Very low in
alkaloid content and harmless to
stock, it is grown on the sandy
wheat-lands of West Australia
chiefly for its protein-rich grain,
which is allowed to scatter from
the unharvested crop and is
picked up during the summer
months by grazing sheep.
The W.A. lupin does not make
good growth on the heavier
“ Aren't you ashamed of yourself , trampling on the
wildflowers?”
wheat-soils of N.S.W., and the
only use to which the N.Z.
lupin is put in N.S.W. is for
green manure on the sandy soils
of coastal orchards.
In Europe, the chief kinds of
field lupins are yellow- and
white-flowered species. These
normally contained some alka-
loid, but non-alkaloid (sweet)
were developed and have now
made much headway.
Sweet strains of the N.Z.
blue lupin have also been
developed, and their production
for grain could well be under-
taken in Australia to augment
the very meagre supplies of high-
protein concentrates, which are
in great demand, particularly by
pig- and poultryfarmers.
Santa Gertrudis.
“Boree”: “Oxo” (B. 20/2/’52)
merely repeats the Shorthorn
Society’s criticism of the Santa
Gertrudis cattle, and it’s not a
fair presentation of the facts. The
Santa Gertrudis is no more a
hybrid than is the Corriedale
sheep, the “Australian” Merino,
or the Australian Illawarra
Shorthorn dairy-cow.
The crossing of English
Lincolns with Merinos to pro-
duce the Corriedale was just as
much an introduction of
“exotic” blood as the crossing of
Zebus with Shorthorns to found
the Santa Gertrudis. To con-
demn these cattle without trial
is tantamount to accusing the
management of the vast, success-
ful King Ranch of being fools
who do not know which are the
most profitable cattle.
That “cattlemen had noted the
futility of carrying on the breed-
ing by mating the crossbred
progeny with each other,” is far
from the facts. Zebu cattle are
not new to Australia. The
hybrids have been bred in large
numbers on the C.Q. coast since
1932 to my knowledge. Wright
of Waverly, St. Lawrence, runs
about 7000 head, Glen Prairie
station, not far from there, has
a big herd, the Beak family has
bred them for years—to mention
a few breeders in the one
locality.
I doubt if there are 25 pure-
bred Zebu bulls in Australia to-
day. The big herds have been
bred by mating hybrid bulls
with hybrid cows, and their
owners seem satisfied with the
results. It is not claimed that
these hybrids are even in type,
simply because there has not
been a persistent effort to fix a
type by inbreeding from a
proved sire, as was done by the
Santa Gertrudis founders. But
that does not mean it cannot or
will not be done.
The meat-hungry masses will
eventually have reason to be
thankful that Kleberg, of the
King Ranch, was big-minded
enough to let his cattle come to
Australia, thereby giving our
cattle industry a chance to
acquire a breed which has the
proved qualities of the hybrid
with an evenness of type-quality.
The alleged “lack of con-
formation where the best cuts
should be, and a quality which
was markedly inferior to British
breeds,” would sound more con-
vincing if it came from a meat-
works or butchering firm instead
of from a body whose members
make their living selling British-
breed stud bulls at fancy prices.
Wentworth, a noted American
meat expert, advised that the
hybrids and the Santa Gertrudis
be given a thorough trial out
here. It is admitted that on a
big, unfenced, scrubby run the
natural timidness of the Zebu
would cause them to get wild
and hard to handle, but when
quietly worked on fenced
country they have proved to be
just as tractable as any other
breed.
There is plenty of scope for
good-quality British breeds on
the big inland areas, but on the
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The next important rains are due late this month or early
in April, and they may come separately in that position,
be combined at one of the positions, or in a new one
accordingly as the sunspots operate at the time.
In the Tropics March shows further good rains, and
possibly a “willy-willy” near Derby, in West Australia. In
the former cycle this was early in the month; it is not
certain, however, as there is no data for a check-back.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
US m
:
:
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ft
.'lO
u
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.O.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pollen, Public Trustee.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
04 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
BRANDAUERS
PENS
M
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
Imitations.
C. Brandauer&Co.Ltd
Birmingham, England
*
.•*msTs v
I
JO
CjaaMg
ONVZNIO
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM LEONARD FITZPATRICK
late of Oatley New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that RUBY FITZPATRICK has
field a Petition for Divorce No. 3601 of
1950 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and requesting the Court to exer-
cise its discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act in
her favour If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 12th May 1952 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from W. O.
CURRIE, Solicitor, 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO LESLIE ERNEST POTTER late of
Newtown.—TAKE NOTICE that ALICE
MAY POTTER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3091 of -1951 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and bigamy
with adultery and is asking for the exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under Sec-
tion 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 6th day of May
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
free of charge from R. G. B. TEMPLE-
MAN, Solicitor, 180 Church Street, Parra-
matta. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO WALTER AUGUST KEENE Re-
spondent late of 86 Bates Street Home-
bush New South Wales Australia.—A
PETITION for Divorce has been filed
against you Upon an application by letter
to the Registrar of the Divorce Registry
Law Society Causes Royal Courts of
Justice Strand London W.C.2 a copy of
the Petition will be sent If within 83
days hereafter no application has been
made nor appearance entered the Court
may hear the Petition and pronounce judg-
ment. H. A. de C. PEREIRA, Registrar.
Probate Notice.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts
of DANIEL SHEFFIELD BENNETT, a
ships’’ steward, residing in 1936 at John
Street, Granville, and last heard of in
Perth and who is an Executor nominated
in the Will of MAUD TAYLOR, late of
Granville, please communicate with the
undersigned.—J. L. THOMSON, Solicitor,
111 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
" Phenovis" Worm Remedy
***** faget'
t
&
in
\
<y
■
u
get
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
fds
PHE.BX.BO
&
BF
Qf
INFUSE
YOUR FLOCK WITH
PEPPIN
THE ORIGINAL BLOOD THAT HAS MADE
BOONOEE
POLLED BOONOKE
WANGAHELLA ESTATE
STUDS
FAMOUS FOR SEVENTY YEARS
for all particulars write
THE MANAGER
f. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
Boonoke North. \Vidgiewa, N,S.W.
Yet another
advantage of
rolled bales
/* €*
The “ROTO-BALER”
simplifies stock feeding from the air
During this year’s flood emergencies, pastoralisls found Hay bailed by the
“ROTO-BALER” the ideal food for distribution from low-flying aircraft. Dramatic
proof of their appreciation is contained in this letter from the Australian Mer-
cantile Land & Finance Co.’s Mudgee District Representative, extracted below*
“. . . we carried out stock feeding operations by aeroplane intermittently for about
six months and we dropped about equal quantities of Roto-Baled Hay and ordinary
wire-tied derrick-pressed Hay. . . . From the point of view of handling we found
that with derrick-pressed Hay some bales would be practically broken before
dropping from the plane, and those which were compact when dropped invariably
disintegrated on contact with the ground. On the other hand, the Roto-Bales were
most convenient to load, held together very well, with no sign of disintegration. In
most cases the Roto-Bales rebounded from six to ten feet in the air without the
slightest sign of falling apart”
<l>
puis CHALMERS
> R O B V I S 1 O N
ORIGINATOR OF THE TORQUE CONVERTER TRACTOR
11/83.34
inferior Q’land coastal and semi-
coastal country, where the runs
are smaller, the British breeds
are losing ground, hence so
much anti-Zebu propaganda.
Fruit-drop.
“M.”: To prevent dropping of
apples and pears when the fruit
is approaching maturity, apply
a hormone spray 10 to 12 days
before the estimated picking
date, bearing in mind that the
hormone does not take effect for
at least two days after applica-
tion.
For apples the hormone could
be mixed with the lead-arsenate,
D.D.T., or white-oil sprays for
codlin moth. The moth has a
habit of attacking crops late in
the season, especially when there
is a sudden burst of warm
weather.
For fruit-drop the hormone
should be applied strictly accord-
ing to the manufacturer’s
recommendations.
Dairy Pastures.
“Hortus”: Demonstrations at
Taree (N.S.W.) show that lime-
cwm-super gives the most satis-
factory pasture - improvement
results. On one farm this com-
bination has been applied to 78
acres over two years. Result is
that pasture-growth is well de-
veloped, especially white clover.
Economically the plan is
sound. Average “cow income”
for lactation last year was £43
from 35 cows. Top cow brought
in £7O. Approximate amount
applied per acre was 1871 b.
Lime on its own was only 50
per cent, as good as lime-cum-
super. The latter alone pro-
duced little effect on general
growth.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: For autumn pests
of winter-green crops spray at
10- to 14-day intervals. For white
butterfly and diamond-backed
moth-caterpillars use D.D.T.
2 p.c. dust, or D.D.T. 50 p.c.
wettable powder in 4gal. of
water). Don’t use D.D.T. inside
21 days of harvesting. Cabbage
aphides should be attacked with
nicotine sulphate, Ifl.oz. (seven
teaspoons) in 4gal. of water, to
which add 2oz. of soft soap.
Apply during the warmest part
of day.
“Myrrhee”: Sooty mould —a
sign of neglect—occurs on
citrus trees infested with olive-
scale, soft-brown scale, citrus
aphis or white fly. Control
measures include a spray of
white-oil emulsion (strength 1 in
40 for olive and soft-brown scale)
applied in March and December.
For white fly and citrus aphis,
use parathion 0.15 per cent, or
H.E.T.P., a pint in 200ga1., or
nicotine sulphate, a pint in
80gal.
“C.A.A.”: To increase the
brightness of flower borders top-
dress them with |oz. of sulphate
of ammonia and a similar
amount of super per square
yard.
“Big Billy”; A good way to
dispose of sheep-carcasses is to
have a large portable incinerator
which can be carted about pad-
docks. Use of old oil will en-
sure thorough destruction of the
carrion, though nobody with
sense will use the fire except in
sa f e places
“ Su ndowner”: Where the
allowance of separated
m j2k is less than two gallons for
eac j 1 g row i n g or fattening pig
or dry sow, or less than four
gallons for sow and litter, lime
shou|d be added to the diet
Ground limestone at loz. per
j lead dad y f or growing and fat-
tenjng pjg S an d dry sow, and 2oz.
per h *.f d daily fo / sows suckling
jj ders where they get no milk
and are £ e( j on a gra in and meat-
, t
<tTT „ , .
H° rt “ s : Earl y aut ?“ n , ls
I* 16 t 0 sow ? c u rop o£ S "? de
turnips to come in between a hay
cro P and , sa Y> potatoes in the
s f™B- Tie tamips make good
s ! Sj f d ’ plo usli theprcviois
STeS “te
j- "clashes'if
purpk-
*°P “ * e , beat . Tf’
Palm . Best preservative
dressing for outside and inside
timber is raw linseed-oil. Wait
until d? e timber is thoroughly
dry before application Give a
double coat for all the outside
work. Sandpaper the surface
first to bring the gram up. For
a glossy finish apply a coat of
oak-varnish. If a dull finish is
desired, egg-shell varnish will
do.


. . the ideal car for use under Australian conditions.”
A car owner with 38 years experience of a wide variety of makes tells how
HOLDEN has completely fulfilled his expectations. Smart good looks,
driving ease and roominess, the economy, acceleration and performance
of the powerful 21 h.p. engine are features that every Holden driver
so well appreciates.
“Dear Sirs, , no hesitation in stating that I
•• • As f a of —s.£t y ■
cannot fault * H steering provides ea e niently placed
=Srs-s S SvS'.-iS *
■'--sx sss s
car, will ***£%£% touring conditions . • •
consumed under yours faithfully, _ .
M S. McLeod Limited,
‘ /c in M S. McLeod.
s Governing Director.
H
ill
mi
fm
*951
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car
• There are two Mr Chief Radios specially designed for
Holden ... a long range S-valve set and an exceptionally
powerful 6-valve model.
• Convenient Hire Purchase terms are available through
G .MAC. . . . General Motors’ own finance company.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
"’[hey 're with you
all the way—
With tops in flying experience, the utmost
in travel comfort and service, and the finest
of food. Yes, Canadian Pacific service is
world renowned, and rightly so. You fly
relaxed arrive refreshed, when you go
Canadian Pacific style.
Travel this comfort way on your next
overseas trip.
SYDNEY • AUCKLAND • FIJI
HONOLULU • VANCOUVER
En route to UNITED STATES and U.K.
(Free stopovers at Fiji 13 hours;
and Honolulu — 32 hours.)
fj
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union
Steam Ship Co. ( General Agents') at George
St., Sydney, and 59 William St., Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency will be gloi to
offer you full information.
C&HxJIiM (jadftc
MS RUNES
“Wings of the World’s Greatest Travel System”
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited—lncorporated in Canada.
The Joness
CREEK HILL, where the
Joneses lived, like so many
of the suburban areas
surrounding Sydney, began
as one of the farming districts
which, in the earliest days of
settlement, constituted the
limits of explored Australia,
Descendants of pioneer families
live on in these places, and
some of their members, especi-
ally the older people, cannot get
used to the idea that they are
not, even now, “country folk.”
These remoter suburbs still have
their farms poultry-farms,
small orchards, tiny dairies, cut-
flower gardens. A property of
six acres or more is considered
“a big place.”
T" HE electric-train service
1 nearly changed the character
of Creek Hills within a genera-
tion. Streets of bungalows
covered the landscape, the shop-
ping centre enlarged beyond
belief; even the oldest families
of the district had, to some
extent, to abandon their custom
of despising anyone with less
than ten years’ residence to their
credit.
Yet whatever changes occurred
when Creek Hill became outer-
suburban one of its charac-
teristics remained constant. It
was a characteristic that is best,
but inadequately, expressed as
“worthiness.”
Some of the six old families
might have an occasional
imbecile to testify, perhaps, to
the unwiseness of cousin
marriage unto the third and
fourth generation. Some of the
religious community might carry
fanaticism beyond the bounds
of commonsense, as when Mr.
McGillicuddy took to waylay-
ing young girls for the purpose,
which only a few people con-
sidered really eccentric, of asking
them:
“Have you sinned yet?”
However, after he had scored
a bullseye with flighty young
Emmy Netwill, scaring her into
hysterical repentence and prema-
ture confession of a creek-bank
indiscretion with Lanny Olsen,
thus frightening Lanny out of
his intended offer of marriage ;
even Mr. McGillicuddy seemed
to realise that his indiscriminate
religious zeal was misplaced in
Creek Hill. After the embarrass-
ing incident he altered his inter-
rogation to the more con-
servative :
“Are you saved?”
DEHIND and to the north-
*—' west of Creek Hill a great
undisturbed area of Crown Land
bush descended, in vast series of
cliffs and gorges, of ridges and
scrub-covered defiles, to the
HawkesbUry River.
Most of the outlying streets
of Creek Hill petered out eventu-
ally in this bush reserve, and
half a mile from the last
meanderings of Wattle-street,
under a rock ledge facing north-
east, the Jones couple lived in
an iron-and-bark shack. During
the depression the police had
directed them to the spot; and
because they were old, and
harmless enough to others, their
continued residence there was
tolerated until their death.
The site the police had selected
was rugged enough to afford the
old people, both very brown and
thin, what virtually amounted to
protective coloration. Their
humpy was shaded by several
wind-gnarled banksias, and they
had cut down thick boronia and
tea-tree to build it. From their
ledge they overlooked a thickly-
wooded gully. The top branches
of several of the tallest apple-
gums growing below were almost
at a level with the Jones’s floor.
There was no water-supply, and
goodness knows what they did
for water when the creek below
dried up. Of all the mysteries
surrounding them their invari-
able cleanness was not the least,
or their escapes from the bush-
fires that raced up the gully walls
many summers and never so
much as singed the shack.
It took the people of Creek
Hill a long time to make any-
thing of the Joneses. Where they
had come from, or what they
had done, was anybody’s guess.
They were completely imper-
vious alike to the suspicions of
the old-established families, the
exhortations of the religious, or
the curiosity-crrm-disapproval of
the bungalow-dwellers.
Old Jones appeared, in the
first month he lived in the bush,
to have mastered the intricacies’
and deceptions of every faintly-
defined bush-track within ten
miles of their humpy. What
purpose there may have been
in his wanderings over various
reipote places on the perimeters
of Creek Hill no one was sure.
The Creek Hill publican was
prepared, he said, to swear on
oath that their entire pension
passed over the bar-counter into
his till every other Saturday.
Yet the Joneses were never
known to beg, and, after twelve
months or so, it became apparent
that they undoubtedly scorned
to steal. On the other hand they
did not display any signs of
starvation, although no Creek
Hill shopkeeper ever saw the
color of their money.
r\ LD JONES’S bi-weekly
Saturday journey home was
a crusade that never decreased
in interest for the less disciplined
among the Creek Hill children.
Mrs. Jones would emerge from
the pub some hour or so before
her husband, leaving to him the
responsibility of transporting,
safely, their sugar-bag of cheap
wine over the two-and-a-half
rough miles from the hotel to
their bush shack. Jones, invari-
ably staggering but never at the
stage of collapse, would emerge
from the bar and loudly
commence his journey.
“You,” he’d say to the sugar-
bag, “yer ready now? Don’t
yer go and get yerself heavier.
Right!” Then he would start,
quite oblivious of the delighted
crowd of children following a
few yards behind him. After
half-a-mile or so he would put
the bag down at the side of the
road, look at it reproachfully,
and then stick his left leg out in
front of him.
“ ’Sno use getting tired, yer
b r. We’re only at the start.”
Then, sugar-bag in hand, he
would cover the next section of
the road, stop for another rest
and spit on his right boot.
“You. So yer giving up now.
Well, shut up! Shut up, I tell
yer! I ain’t leavin' yer be’ind
so yer can just stow yer
whingin’! ”
Where Wattle-street finally
narrowed down to the track
leading to his house old Jones
by NANCY KEESING
WHAKAREWAREWA.
A hot Australian range with lilac edges
Lies at a long road s end of gorse and sedges.
And just below it, brown and village-quiet,
A small brook runs. The red pah stands just by it.
Red pah sprung out of Egypt in this fierce day
Crying out in god-paint and dust and sun-array
All the gods in one . . . The great bridge
Is fiercely red, a sacred, oily-fingered ridge
Of crimson arms; and on the rails are set
The vermilion sculptured gods; and yet and yet
The pah beyond is full of gods; their heads
Anointed with fine oil, thick paints, red lead
Priming, primed as the Argo was,
And the oceanographical purple gauze
Of paua shell set for eyes, arms, nails,
Kingsticks, god-fans and the secret mails
Egyptian on these Maori gods whose heads
Red-brilliant are on the bright vermilion leads
Of the white, wide, hot Australian-dusted floor
Of the bridge. And standing evermore
Do these magenta gods bewail the song
Fallen from their flutes . . . the brown brook strong.
Clear, defiant, blue-tinged, that runs in
Through grey manuka, warrior-carved and thin
To a steaming compound, bamboo-bordered, grey
With columns of hot steam rising, and a spray
Of mud and lava, and the threatening, gurgling roar
Of the mad earth, hot and boiling at its core.
Thinking in royal and terrible tones of steam
And sheets of smoke, like one lost in a dream.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


IXL - AJC
OK-VO
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~^
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories arid Branches in:-~~
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Amende*:-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
wm
iipiliiiiiii
1 r '-jJ - '
n x
m
£<<•: vXvXvXv:-:-:
iS&k jSjJpsjaSiS^
No matter
what you're
driving
I, BBS]
iflfTOß or 'mXM
you'll get MORE POWER to start
with MORE STAMINA to
keep going .... from
a guaranteed
GOODYEAR
BATTERY
m
GOODYEAR
BATTERIES
"As Good at the name they bear '*
DE LUXE Insulated with Felted
Fibre Glass for longer plate
life. The finest battery you
can buy.
ALL-WEATHER HEAVY
DUTY for all types of service.
Recommended for long service
at lowest cost.
SEE YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER
125-24
f
dsf
ds
#
fds
f
No home shoold
be without it...
ft*
±mw.
SPEcffTHOSPIT
Nnuti am# W^nw
n rtnii anu^-
'HIW *COTT I mt»»
BisTm.iiTOßS. TOOTH ft CO. LllilTtD
rabbit in the camp-oven. I
mash onion, pepper, butter,
billycan rust through boiled
spuds; cut the mess in half as
Ben arrives. I fish out saturated
smokes. Sodden seaweed rolled
in rice-paper.
“I’ll sell,” says Ben. “You
heard what the foreign lass
said.” That foreign lass. Think-
ing of her neutralises the emetic.
“Thespian Themis in a
rodent’s role,” I recite.
“Make it plain,” threatens
Ben.
“Never find a keener, meaner
signorina.”
“Righto,” growls Ben. “Less
Shakspeare.”
“The Continental cutie was
sober,” I tell Ben.
“Sober enough to talk
straight.”
“Sober as me.”
“Cut it out,” says Ben.
“I mean it was an act.”
Ben gulps black tea ; unheard-
of ideas awakening in his mind.
He mouths soothing lingo like
what lambs hear before they
lose their tails. Deceit is new for
Ben ; a recent import. Ben is
up-to-date as button-hooks and
moustache cups.
“You sell. Pudge buys,” I
instruct Ben, “Pudge backs the
estate-agent.”
Ben polishes his sunskirmed
beak with the back of his claw.
“After that show in the pub
many owners will want to sell.”
“Mortgage your viners,” I
urge him. “Buy more plant.”
Ben fingers glowing coals to
set in his pipe bowl, which could
carry two jiggers of Cuban rum
without spilling.
Ben needs instruction in
current evils. He can wrestle
runaway tractors. Against sub-
terfuge he’s a sheep in sheep’s
clothing.
“There’s a viner for sale at
the showground,” I tell him.
He clears his throat, spits a
peg of heavy wet toddy.
“Yep," he says. “I know.”
WE rise a{ four to fork some
more. In the warm dawn
we gulp black tea, sweet as raw
gore. There’s gaudy pain walk-
ing inside my skull like a blue-
black king crab. The moon is
up, flies are abed, ground is dry
enough for work, damp enough
to lay dust. The migrant secre-
tary can’t be so fresh this morn-
ing, but I lack strength to think
about her properly.
The viner battery warms up
for the day’s dizzy dissonance.
Trucks arrive overloaded.
Blokes begin butchering tree-
frogs camped in vine stacks.
“Don’t waste time,” yells Ben.
Spiritedly. “Fork ’em through
with the vine,”
Canned carnage for suburban
suppers. I stand stiff-legged as
though I have samurai swords
hidden down my trousers. I
hone fork prongs sharp as swigs
of stingo. I watch Harry the
Hat cuddling a silvaf rested
mountain lory. The lory looks
sick as my bank account.
The estate-agent has ridden in
on the blitz-buggy. Too thrifty
to use his own petrol.
“Feel better?” he asks me.
Meaningfully,
“Are you suggesting I was
tight?”
“You looked queer doing jack-
knife loops off the saloon
veranda.”
I let that one go over my
shoulder.
“How’s business?” he asks
me. He gives himself a cultured
cigarette, nurtured in lady’s talc.
He pockets the packet before I
say no thanks. I turn on the
hose-tap and drink, drink,
drink . . . ah!
“Ben wants to buy that show-
ground viner,” I say.
“What made him so
optimistic?”
“I did. You can ask a pretty
high price.”
g 0 anc j see b j m no w ”
~. , . , T , *
Uon * . “ im ttiat A m
owner. It might make a differ-
ence.” I’ve been trying to sell
that bankrupt showground viner
for months.
would take his last pause, turn
round, shake his fists at any
children who still followed him
and vanish homewards without
further comment.
Eventually one or two
housewives employed Mrs.
Jones for “heavy cleaning.” We
had her once when, returning
from a long holiday, we dis-
covered the veranda had been
turned by birds and possums
into a latter-day Augean stables.
She volunteered some informa-
tion about herself on this
occasion. Straightening up over
the bucket, pulling down a stiff
blueprint frock over her bare,
vine-like brown legs, she told
me that she came from a good
family. Had once, she said,
been cashier in a large chain
restaurant, and “lived in a real
nice house in Annandale with a
lawn and a palm-tree.”
“Me sister’s a lady now,” she
said. “Works in one of them big
city shops, sells dresses. Haven’t
seen her for years though—no
time for me.” She scrubbed
vigorously for a while and went
on; “None of them have any
time for me since I took to my
old man. But I always liked the
bush —and my old man.” From
this I constructed a romantic
story with Mrs. Jones as the
heroine, victim of an undying
passion for a younger hand-
somer Jones. However, this
pleasant fiction was dispelled
when old Jones fell off a bus
and was admitted to the district
hospital.
“How’s your husband?” I
asked her.
“Well,” she said, “he’s not
dead or I’d’Ve heard,”
“Have you seen him?”
“Him! If he’s not dead he’ll
be home soon enough!”
The Joneses gave us all some-
thing to talk about. No one
ever quite accepted their
honesty. They were blamed for
the decline of bush-flowers in the
district, for gates left open, for
broken glass on the surface of
Wattle-street. People did not
really believe they were guilty,
but they were such very con-
venient scapegoats. Mr. Mc-
Gillicuddy went down to see
them, armed with copies of The
Pledge, and would not desist.
After three visits they acquired
a snappish cattle-dog which not
only put an end to visitors, but
was responsible for the track
taking a new curve in order to
avoid going past the hut.
After this stories started about
the terrible m e t h o-drinking
orgies taking place down in the
bush. Again no one quite
credited these tales ; the Joneses
seemed neither more nor less
drunk on Saturdays ; they were
both ageing, but not more
quickly than, say, was Mr.
McQillicuddy.
T HEIR dead bodies were dis-
-1 covered in their hut by a
gang of little boys from some
of the best families in the
neighborhood. The scandal
when it transpired that,
undeterred by the cattle-dog,
these nice children had been in
the habit of tossing stones from
the top of the rock ledge on to
the tin roof of the humpy!
The stern, sorrowful lectures
from parents with talk of “Your
actions being sufficient punish-
ment!” And the Joneses: Mr.
Jones with his recalcitrant legs,
and gipsyish Mrs. Jones in her
clean print frocks, had never
complained.
Community discomfort is a
peculiar phenomenon. The
Jones’s abandoned shack and
belongings lay untouched.
Quantities of good iron fell to
the ground and gradually rusted
away. Even the bush was
unnaturally slow to claim the
place.
Months later, when I
explored, the beaten earth-floor,
open to the weather, was quite
bare of grass or scrub plants. A
few gerberas and dahlias were
growing lustily in pockets of the
rock, between the remains of
the humpy and the even more
decrepit remains of the structure
known politely in Creek Hill as
“the outhouse.”
But strangest of all were two
print dresses hung on newspaper
coathangers between the only
two uprights of the shack still
standing. Maybe, at a touch,
they would have split and torn,
but hanging there under the
sky they looked miraculously
clean, and in their stiffness held,
defiantly, the angular outlines of
Mrs. Jones’s brown old body.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
New Australians
Many Australians seem to think that
assimilation of adult migrants should be
no more difficult than branding a steer.
When hundreds of thousands of unfor-
tunate people have been driven from
home by outrageous politics and
economic pressures, most adults among
them will never cease to yearn for the
homeland, however beautiful their
adopted country. And for all of them
Australia is likely to be different in every
way from their own homeland.
As a comparatively new Australian
myself, I think the native Australian fails
to understand this sentiment. The Com-
monwealth Statistician lately reported
that no fewer than 10,600 Australians had
left their native land last year, allegedly
never to return. I believe that nowhere
else in the world dwell a people whose
roots are so shallow in their own soil.
For most migrants it has been a case
of necessity, and few come here for pure
love of Australia. Most are simply
searching for the means to live.
I am not alone in resenting the sugges-
tion that so many of us belong to the
Children of Israel that we have come
from Jewish ghettos, only to create
ghettos here. I have never in a long
life known a Jew to live in a ghetto if he
could avoid it. But, like every other
race, he will, if he can, congregate with
his fellows and his language and culture.
He will not easily be weaned from his
own ways of life, although his children,
schooled here, will find no difficulty in
growing up good nationals.
The Minister for Immigration was the
only speaker on a recent “Forum of the
Air” who appreciated the fact that Aus-
tralia cannot expect to be able to mould
adult migrants to any Australian pattern.
As a matter of fact, many people from
the older lands are not very fond of the
“Australian way of life.”
The best that can be hoped is that
folks who come here to live will be decent
law-abiding people, prepared to do a job
of work—if trade-unions permit—and to
produce families who will grow up good
Australians. And Australia should be
well satisfied with that.
As to language difficulties, an intelligent
man will, if necessary and within six
months, provide himself with a
vocabulary sufficient to get along in any
language, even Chinese or Russian. And
it will depend upon his surroundings
whether at the same time he will cultivate
the virtues or the vices of his new country
and add them to those of his own. —
Shellback (N.S.W.).
The Censure Debate
The reply by Mr. Menzies to the
censure motion was hardly what those
who put him into office expected. On
taxation he said:
Heavy taxation is the inevitable con-
comitant of the ideas we have developed
in a Socialist State. You cannot have great
social responsibility or great social benefit
unless you have heavy taxation.
Surely that is a strange statement
coming from the party-leader of 1949,
who pledged that he and his followers
would bring Australia back from
Socialism to private enterprise. And it is
a surprisingly frank admission that this
has not been done.
In point of fact the Government still
retains the completely unnecessary Com-
monwealth Employment Service, with
highly-paid representatives in every major
country town, not to mention city staffs.
In all there are more than 50 branches
of the service in N. S. Wales, and the
cost of running them must be fantastic.
Both the Canberra National Uni-
versity, to be skippered by Sir Douglas
Copland, and the public-relations staffs
with which every branch of the public
service is swollen are symptomatic of the
state of Socialism in which we still live.
And just ask the average farmer whether
his industry is free of socialistic controls!
Mr. Menzies also claimed, in justifica-
tion of high taxes, that taxation is not so
high now as it was at the war-time peak.
That is an irrelevant comparison—during
the war there were 750,000 men and
women in the armed services, and the
Budget had necessarily to sustain a large,
but essential, war-time bureaucracy.
Incentive is the only thing that will
increase production, and there can be no
incentive when taxes are at their present
level, particularly when politicians set
such an example as attempting to make
considerable portions of their own
incomes tax-free.
Just so long as the Socialist State of
which the Prime Minister spoke exists,
then so long will Australia be in the grip
of inflation. — Inall (Vic.).
Sydney’s Cargo Troubles
Few of the many reports on Sydney’s
waterside cargo congestion stress
sufficiently the need for using other ports.
On present facilities, including rail con-
nections, Sydney had just about reached
its limit in cargo-handling. What is not
fully realised is that this congestion did
not come about by accident, but by the
deliberate planning of Sydney merchants
of more than 100 years ago. Their
intention was to squash any attempt to
use other ports in N. S. Wales,
That came to a head in the 1840’s
when Ben Boyd arrived with a fleet of
steamers and plenty of money to found
a new port and town at Twofold Bay.
This was taken by the merchants
as a deliberate threat to Sydney’s ship-
ping trade, and plans were launched to
squash Ben Boyd by building railways
and roads, all converging on Sydney.
Before the railway from the north-west
could reach Sydney a bridge had to be
“Can't you read, young man? We don't allow smoking in this building."
built over the Hawkesbury River. After
the line had reached Newcastle, that port
became a serious rival. When the
bridge was completed, however, and
rail-traffic reached Sydney preferential
rates ensured that it cost no more to send
goods to Sydney than to Newcastle.
Besides Sydney there are at least five
good deepwater ports in New South
Wales —Iluka, being built at the mouth
of the Clarence River, Coffs’ Harbor,
Port Stephens (near Newcastle and a
deeper port), Jervis Bay and Twofold
Bay, Of them all. Twofold Bay is the
best natural harbor. In 1924 the Special
Service Squadron entered it and
anchored, at the invitation of the mayor,
who tendered a public welcome to the
rear-admiral. The squadron had no
difficulty whatever in manoeuvring and
anchoring in the port.
While he had active work going on,
Ben Boyd made a road from Boydtown
—on the southern shore of the bay—to
Braidwood and the Riverina. He leased
cattle-stations over an immense area as
far south as Deniliquin, from which
point bullock-drays brought wool to be
loaded for London at Boydtown. The
port was a regular call for inter-State
steamers between Sydney, Melbourne and
Hobart, and cattle in large numbers were
shipped from there to Tasmania. Imlay
Brothers, who preceded Ben Boyd in
Eden, also shipped cattle. The first cattle
to reach the Monaro came from Ben
Boyd’s stations.
Some time ago Victoria offered to
build a railway from Orbost, at the end
of the Gippsland line, to Twofold Bay,
thus linking it with a large tract of
country in both Victoria and N. S.
Wales, but the Ma State declined the
offer. It seemed determined to keep
Twofold Bay strictly on the outer.
N. S. Wales is the only State in Aus-
tralasia which concentrates all its ship-
ping in one port —Newcastle’s trade is
very small. Queensland has a number of
ports, so have Victoria and Tasmania,
while in New Zealand all overseas ships
must visit 12 ports to pick up a full cargo.
It must be 30 years since Sydney’s
waterfront was overhauled and rebuilt.
In the meantime other overseas ports
have jumped ahead. New Zealand and
the Philippines have wonderful wharf
facilities, and the same applies to Singa-
pore, Shanghai and other Eastern ports.
Modern machinery replaces ships’
winches, which are used too much in
Sydney.
But the main trouble is the centralisa-
tion begun in the days of Ben Boyd.
Rather oddly, our encyclopaedias and
the like rarely refer to Boyd, except
perhaps to mention him as a
whaler. Ben Boyd was never a whaler,
though he owned whale-ships. He was a
very clever and alert businessman, who
brought nearly £200,000 with him to
found the Royal Bank on Church Hill.
Not one penny of Australian money went
into his ventures, possibly because there
was no money in N. S. Wales in his
day.— Will Lawson (N.S.W.).
Cotton in Queensland
It’s quids to gooseberries that the
formula for increasing production will be
heavily charged with bounties and sub-
sidies. Yet nobody seems to have thought
of looking over the results —if any—fol-
lowing the spending of £147,715,724 to
hold wheat, cotton and dairying above
the breadline in the 11 years to 1949.
One astonishing result was 42,434 fewer
males and 15,388 more females engaged
permanently on holdings in 1949 than
was the case 10 years earlier. We pay
a fantastic price to drive men off the land
and women back on to it.
An example of Government encourage-
ment of primary production is Queens-
land cotton. It has taken 20 years
of Commonwealth Government subsidis-
ing and upwards of 30 years of State
cotton-plant breeding at Biloela Experi-
mental Station to discover that, like
cigarette tobacco and the champagne
grape, cotton does not need soil of high
fertility for its profitable cultivation.
Particularly it does not want the high
nitrate content that cotton-growing builds
up in Queensland’s sub-tropical condi-
tions —that should explain why the 10-
years’ average cotton yield to 1949 was
33 per cent, below that for a similar 10-
years group 30 years earlier.
Queensland Department of Agriculture
and Stock plant-breeder R. W. Peters
told a Theodore (Dawson Valley) field-
day gathering that probably the most
difficult problems against which the
Queensland breeder had to contend
were
the effect of the cotton plant on the
unusually high nitrate content of the cul-
tivated alluvial and some of the scrub
soils in the cotton-growing districts. This
was particularly the case when the crop
was grown on the same soil for a number
of years.
That is equivalent to saying that
cotton-growing in Queensland changes
the soil’s environmental qualities, and it is
the first time in 30 years that that aspect
of environment has been mentioned
officially in relation to cotton. Yet in
the last 20 years Commonwealth Gov-
ernments have paid £1,256,868 in bounties
to growers to produce cotton in Queens-
land, and another £327,989 to spinners to
enable them to use it.
From August to December, 1947, the
late general-manager of the Queensland
Cotton Board inspected cotton-growing
in the U.S.A. He visited El Pasa in the
latitude of Port Stephens, Clarkdale and
Lubbock, both in the latitude of Sydney,
and San Joachim River Valley in the
latitude of Jervis Bay—none of them
within 600 miles of the latitude of
Dawson Valley, Queensland. Apart from
other environmental factors, these lati-
tudes have insect-killing winters that are
unknown in the Dawson Valley cotton-
belt. The manager said nothing about
environmental differences between U.S.A,
cottonfields and those in Queensland.
Instead, he recommended in his report
dated January, 1948, that all cotton in
Queensland be (a) grown on irrigated
land, and ( b ) harvested by mechanical
pickers.
The Commonwealth Government
spent about £50,000 on 12 such
pickers. It was then discovered
that, without proper spacing of right
cotton varieties, mechanical pickers
are a poor investment and that
even the right cotton variety becomes
a wrong variety by its own habit of
building up soil nitrate or because of the
cotton tip-worm, which attacks central
terminal shoots. Both the worm and the
nitrate cause sprawling laterals, which
means back to hand-picking.
The position today is that, after 30
years of cotton-plant breeding, after
spending £1,584,766 in bounties, another
£68,798 to give the Cotton Board a clean
sheet with the Commonwealth Bank and
about £50,000 on mechanical cotton-
pickers, cotton can be grown in Queens-
land only in four-yearly rotation with
grazing. That is to say, it takes three
years of grazing to consume the nitrate
build-up of one year of cotton. And this
provides another “must.” Rotating crops
with grazing means close subdividing, and
everybody knows how “easy” it is to get
fencing-wire or labor to erect fences. —
Boll Worm (Q.).
Laws
Does anyone else feel an increasing
irritation with the never-ceasing flood of
threats from official and semi-official
sources?
I am reasonably law-abiding, but I’m
fed-up with this constant rash of warn-
ings, per newspaper and radio, of what
will happen to me if I cross the street
in certain ways, or fail to apply for a
licence to sell hundreds and thousands,
or fail to apply early for a renewal; or
buy, sell or attempt to buy or sell to,
from or through any person not
authorised; or if I do not stand in a
queue, or attempt to enter or leave by
a prohibited door, or at prohibited times;
or if I commit any of the unending multi-
tudes of new and piffling “crimes” the
invention of which seems to be the main
occupation of hundreds of surplus
officials.
Nothing breeds contempt for the law
as much as foolish laws and regulations,
—W.J.C. (N.S.W.).
Australian Literature Slipping?
Will Lawson takes far too gloomy a
view of the present state of Australian
writing (B. 20/2/’52). Balladry may be
dead, unfortunately, but the output of
serious verse continues, while a steady
stream of very readable fiction, the work
of Australian writers, comes off the
presses every year—from last year’s pub-
lications Come In Spinner, The Witch’s
Thorn and Jimmy Brackett may find
permanent places in our literature.
Of course their “permanent” place may
not prevent their being completely
ignored by the average reader, say, 50
years hence. Which raises another point.
Will Lawson laments at some length that
Jonah, etc., are now “forgotten.” Such
lamentations are common ; it seems to
be expected that people should make a
point of reading everything written by
Australians since 1788.
That is impossible. The average per-
son has only a limited time to devote to
reading. Attention to business, home,
recreation or hobby leaves too scant
time for most people to go through many
of the classics of other days.
Still, it would be a good thing to
reprint now and then some books of
the calibre of Jonah, though there would
need to be judicious selection. Many
reprinted would probably prove financial
failures; and here is another angle to
Will Lawson’s theme. Books are an
expensive item at any time; perhaps
even more books would be published it
printing could be cheaper. That isnt
likely; in fact, Michael Joseph, the
English publisher, has lately said that
book-prices will soon be doubled.
Will Lawson should direct his criticism
more at the Australian public than the
writer. There is, undoubtedly, a grave
decline in the reading of serious litera-
ture. A generation is growing up
nurtured on “comics” and sporting-
guides, garnished with films mainly of a
trivial nature. An important task which
confronts us is to redevelop a taste for
the reading and enjoyment of tnos
books, magazines and newspapers wmh
set a high literary standard. K- Ross
(W.A.).


DYMOCK’S
FOR ALL UNIVERSITY TEXTS
Arts • Dentistry • Agriculture • Veterinary • Engineering • Medicine •
Science • Economics • and all Faculties.
Place Your Order Now.
Also wide range of Personal and Commercial Stationery, Fountain Pens,
Instruments, Exercise Books, Spring-back Folders, etc.
University Catalogue Available On Request.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. Phone 8L3611.
More than / 14,000 copies sold in the United States!
“THE WIDOWS OF BROOME”
Arthur W. Upheld
A first-rate thriller by a well-known Australian writer. “Both Mr. Upfield and his
mastermind, ‘Bony,’ have never been better. The pace is leisurely, at least in the
telling, but the undercurrent of sustained tension, plus an unusual amount of colour
and vitality contributed by some of the supporting characters, make for fast
reading.”— N.Y. Times.
“Upfield has a talent for suggesting the infinite detail of police work as well as its
artistry . . . particularly in the person of Inspector Bonaparte, who is becoming one of
detective fiction’s more colourful characters.” — N.Y. Herald Tribune.
At all Booksellers HEINEMANN
THE LIFE OF VICE-ADMIRAL
WILLIAM BLIGH, R.N.. F.R.S.
By George Mackaness, M.A., Litt.D.
An impartial, clearly-documented work which creates a compelling,
full-length portrait and lets the facts speak for themselves. With
numerous illustrations. Price 50/- (post 1/4).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Booksellers are now registering orders for
The Struggle For Europe
By CHESTER WILMOT
the book that explains why we are where we are today.
AUSTRALIAN EDITION READY SHORTLY
COLLINS
to the scene of the murders and bury his
comrades’ remains
Four grassy mounds are there beside the
creek,
Bestrewn with sprays and leaves from the
old trees
Which moan the ancient dirges that have
caught
The heed of dying ages, and for long
The traveller passing them in safety there,
Would call the place —The Creek of the
Four Graves.
The story told, it is the descriptions
that catch the imagination. In them he
acclimatises the European spirit in Aus-
tralia. The failure of his successors to
exploit his remarkable success vitiates
most of the landscape poetry, with the
exception of Kendall’s, written for the
next half-century. No poet of the English
or Australian canons constructs land-
scapes more paintable than Harpur’s.
Of the famous English poets in his genre,
Dyer, in his “Grongar Hill,” completely
lacks formed distances, while Cowper’s
pictures are as far removed as possible
from the painter’s art, moving as they
do from detail to detail without formal
design.
Harpur’s, on the contrary, possess a
sound perspective. William Gilpin, the
connoisseur of the “Picturesque,” would
have praised them highly on this score.
They possess the added interest that they
are never static. The light is in constant
play. The clouds move. The sun rises,
seethes or sets. Stars twinkle or fade.
Trees climb and so on. Even when the
poet wishes to conjure up a scene of
stillness, as he does at the close of the
first day’s journey, in “The Creek,” as a
prelude to dramatic action, after telling
us that “the universe might have seemed
coiled in vast rest,” he adds;
only that one dark cloud,
Diffused and shapen like a spider huge,
Crept on with scrawling legs along the sky.
’Thompson, in his “Seasons.” is an
enthusiastic naturalist, describing the
habitats and habits of his flora and fauna,
and a preacher descanting on the existence
of God, with arguments from Design.
There are no mysteries for him, but “the
hurried eye Distracted wanders.” There is
no distracted wandering in Harpur’s
description; and there are mysteries.
There remains Wordsworth. It is usual
to dismiss Harpur’s descriptions as being
Wordsworthian. And that is that! No
one seems to have noted that the Prelude
was published only three years before
Harpur’s “Creek” was published. Fie
ought at least to be given the credit of
being remarkably up-to-date in reading,
and of being quick to take -a hint. And
it is by no means proven that he didn’t
write his poem some years earlier. And
even if he didn’t, even if he caught the
hint from Wordsworth, the passages that
lift the descriptions to a level comparable
with Wordsworth are indubitably of his
own observation and imagining. Such are
the lines in the description of the moon-
rise, at the opening of Part Two of “The
Creek”: —
Eastward at last
The view was wasted in a formless gloom,
Night’s front; then westward the high
massing woods
Steeped in a swart but mellow Indian
beauty,
A deep dusk loveliness, they ridged and
heaped,
Only the more distinctly for their shade,
Against the twilight heaven —a cloudless
depth.
Yet luminous with the sunset’s fading glow;
And thus awhile in the lit dusk they seemed
To hang like mighty pictures of themselves
In the still chambers of a vaster world.
Likewise the lines describing the trees
silhouetted against the full moon a little
later.
Their huge statures dwarfed
By distance into brambles and yet all
Clearly defined against her ample orb . . -
In such passages we are faced not
merely with acute sensuous perception,
but with incipient trance. The observa-
tion is not only keen, but rapt. Again,
in the lines describing how the shafts of
moonlight pierce the darkness of the
scrub
Then her full light . . .
Chased mass by mass the broken darkness
down
Into the dense-brushed valleys, where it
crouched,
And shrank, and struggled, like a dragon-
doubt
Glooming a lonely spirit,
the whole metaphor is too subtle and
congruent not to have been weighed and
elaborated somehow ; but it has not been
done consciously. It i,s one of those
passages “given” to a poet. It derives
from his deep, perhaps unconscious,
sense of life as tragedy.
And so we come back to the secret of
the man’s melancholy. It had several
elements, as already indicated: it was
partly hereditary, partly an assumed
identification with his father—“the
Sage”—partly political disillusionment —
he was a convinced Republican and
regarded the trend of Australian govern-
ment as contrary to his hopes—and
partly due to accidental circumstances.
More than all these it was an instinctive
poetic stance. He adopted for poetic
purposes the role of a Job. -Or you
might say his melancholy acted as a
catalyst to his poetry. And finally, it
was a means whereby he avoided the
consciousness of his own failure.
For fail he did by his own standards.
His best poetry is that of “talent” and
of “the household affections.” As a poet
of “absolute genius” he failed. And it
was only this last that he really valued.
Failing in that he failed in everything.
And the tragedy is that he probably
need not have failed. Potentially he was
a genius. His failure was one of judg-
ment. He thought he could command
his vision. He was a man who tried to
master his world, to give it the imprint
of his own law. What he could not shape
to his own purpose he either denied or
condemned. “Whatever I can value, I
can mould,” he said.
What he could not do was to submit
himself to the order of things, and, by so
doing, discover the extent and boundaries
of his genius. When he found he could
not master his random visions he denied
them. He came to doubt his poetic faith.
He probably became incapable of those
stray visionary moments he had known.
And this is why such “inspired” moments
as we find in his earlier poetry, such as
“The Creek,” become rarer and rarer as
he goes on, and finally cease to exist.
He appears to have reached his greatest
visionary power at the time of writing
“The Creek.” Thereafter, though he
adds to his technical virtuosity, and
makes much display of erudite learning
such as the Cabala, the immediate
apprehension of reality is progressively
lacking.
If we would understand his devolution
we cannot do better than view it against
the contrasted evolution of Keats. Judg-
ing by the earliest work of each, Harpur
had the greater initial gift. But think of
them both weighed down with suffering
at the ends of their lives, Harpur has
lost a son, Keats a brother ; both face
financial ruin. Both suspect themselves
to be dying and have come to accept it.
Both are firm in their assertion that their
poetry will survive their deaths.
But one really believes it, and the other
doesn’t. Suffering, while it intensifies the
visionary powers of Keats, leading him
to profess as a principle his moments of
trance, robs Harpur of his motive for
creation, converting him into a cynic.
Keats writes his profound letters and his
great Odes; Harpur contents himself
with writing his shallow “epitaph,” and
with revising his existing poems. There
is even reason to distrust his revision.
Textual criticism may prove his last
thoughts on his work to have been much
inferior to his first. He had reasoned
himself into chains, those of his ration-
alism and scepticism. Consciously he
gives eo sign that he realises what has
happened to him; but his cynicism and
his wish to die are symptomatic of an
unconscious awareness of it. And at
bottom his melancholia may have been
a prophetic awareness of it all his life.
Harpur is a truly tragic figure. Kendall
sensed this, but failed to detect the cause
of it, putting it down to Harpur’s loss
of religious faith, in the obvious sense,
Harpur certainly did not confide the
truth, even if he knew it, to Kendall,
Kendall he kept at arm’s length, as a
disciple. It is impossible not to admire
the success with which Harpur played
his role as a “great poet.” He had
assumed the mask so easily, and worn it
so long, that it fitted him to perfection
and had indeed become part of him. He
was the bearded oracle. His long
patriarchal beard was symbolic. Beards
were fashionable then, we know, but
Harpur’s beard was no fashion; reaching
almost to his waist it lent -him a look of
awesome authority. His commissioner-
ship had added to the effect. He ruled his
little world of the diggings like an
Olympian. That was why, when he lost
his official function, he was so upset. His
ego felt stripped. For a moment the
mask was in danger of slipping. But he
drew it on again, took up his pen, and,
though unable to compose, revised.
By his own standards, then, he failed.
He rejected his vision. But he did so
without betraying his failure to the
public, and his public, though some
criticised him on other grounds, never
realised the depth of his apostasy. Even
then his reputation rested not on his
poetry but on his role. He managed to
create the role of a great poet, and to
persuade his followers to accept it.
And so his failure was not unmitigated.
He valued poetry as a means to an end.
It was to be the vehicle of spiritual teach-
ing. And though he failed to convey that
teaching in great poetry he did so in his
life. He was outstanding, in that while
the colonists all about him were pre-
occupied with things material, he asserted
the supreme importance of things
spiritual. To have done this, and in
addition to have left the talented verse
he did, shot through as it is with broken
lights of greatness, was no small thing.
DONOVAN CLARKE.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 164
Across.
I—One1 —One of the Henrides, Yours
Truly, little Georgia and brown
are all here as a matter of course.
(12)
7—Case never rearranged in total
separation. (9)
9—Reverse velocity in such profun-
dities. (5)
10—Defeated limit of vision contains
Shangri-la. (4, 7)
12— Artists hold an Abyssinian vizier.
(3)
13 — Essays on the Indian river activi-
ties of a secondary nature. (10)
19 —Voicing when my former wife is
laundering. (10)
23 — Uncooked reversal in conflict. (3)
24 Tubby morning instrument for
Thalben Ball and a fairy. (4, 7)
26 — Half a dozen and a cut of meat.
(5)
27 — Place for a baby sitter with an
Empire State professorship. (4, 5)
28— Curd abbreviates 6 down and
pelts gaiters. (12)
Down.
1— It is the custom to kiss under this
fog on the corn’s location. (9)
2 Behold the waistcoat, but dost
thou entertain tender sentiments?
(6)
3 Little character in an American
strip. (5)
4 Cutter product of two vowels
would result from this. (3)
5 Possessive objective of luggage.
(5)
6 Sherman marched through this
home state of Stalin. (7)
8 — Site of some European heavy
industry. (4)
9 Present Bradman didn’t starve. (6)
11 —Part of the poetic East like Beet-
hoven’s 2nd symphony. (3)
14 — Our French heir is upset. (3)
15 — The clean-shaven mourn for this
vessel? (3)
16 — Donkey in South Australia with
Lippi and Diavolo for a Vic-
torian resort plant. (9)
17 — A character of some fortitude
puts box over sunburn. (7)
18 — Complained loudly when a drone
ate. (6)
20—Girl like Beethoven’s 7th sym-
phony. (3)
21— Harrison in America. (4)
22 — Is upset about the remote Swahili
caravan. (6)
23 A hairdresser to vacillate. (5)
25 —Giant 1000 roused and excited.
(5)
27—Harry. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 163


■\ vA ; - m ; ■ t- Lfjg* MmmmrnWmmm
■■’ \ \ V • ■>' v. N V 1 X ■X|f'V»»» aww-a< ■■
isss? ~
liilM
■mM
«<
&•«
«i»l
* i
ii
>
Vg» ®
' • :'
.- • •><:>>V ' ■ ■•'■.•■• .V. 'h*: : : : :
IX ***
, -* m
& *»" T^-',
.fr- ' \ *,<es>*xiMcs
L£ * * :
iiii
} mfo*u
r; I
PI
r
liippfl
mm wwt i . 3 - <
'*»** i|SS|i
ViJ® s*** t “TaW?
wfti n . jgi
& '
' s «s» < -'< ’<».*Bwrss*
23
ALICE SPRINGS AREA
v/y
' x-?',J!.„
liiii
isaAa | ,
, i ; ..^wC'W'' <
m*r
, :
■
M
.1
ilia
The Hastings Peering Cattle Property is a "terminal" on the
railway and is only 90 miles from Alice Springs Railhead in
Central Australia. This property is 2.600 square miles in
area, which is more than a road one mile wide across Australia
from Sydney to Perth, it is also equal to a road one mile
wide across America from New York to San Francisco
This Hastings Peering Cattle Property has a twofold significance in near-
future world affairs.
The first is Australia's responsibility, both in natural desire and national duty,
to provide BEEF FOR BRITAIN.
The second is Australia's national security needs, which demand greater and
still greater beef production, for our increasing population and for the use
of our and our allies' PEFENCE FORCES.
"Bully Beef" is one of our munitions.
H.D
//
“BEEF ROADS” • WATER CONSERVATION • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS DEERINC
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS DEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED. Alice Springs. N.T.
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED. Alice Springs, Northern Territory.
„ .. .. .. Lae, New Guinea. _ ,
„ „ „ „ Head Office: William Street, Sydney. M 0412 (33 lines).
