

pjgftWlE DELIVER
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and ail celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B, Seppelt & Sons Ltd
w supp y details of this service. P ns
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
k
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE; Box 233 E, 6.P.0.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64. CLP.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
GAVIN CASEY ON DOLLAR TOURISTS
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3792
Wednesday, October 15, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Near Australia House
Stands Beautiful
St. Mary-le-Strand
the many beautiful spires that
grace London’s skyline, none is more
finely proportioned than that of the
Church of St. Mary-le-Strand, situated
on an island site near Australia House in
the Strand.
Dating from 1717, the present Church
occupies the site of the famous Strand
maypole, which was garlanded each year
on May Day and around which the
citizens of London used to dance. It was
one hundred and thirty-four feet high
and was a source of great pride to the
local inhabitants until 1644, when the
Puritans succeeded in having it destroyed
as one of “the last remnants of vile
heathenism” in the metropolis. Seventeen
years later, however, James Duke of
York, Lord High Admiral of England
supervised the erection by twelve seamen’
of a splendid new maypole, which sur-
vived there until 1710. It was purchased
by Sir Isaac Newton and re-erected in
Wanstead Park, London, where it served
as a stand for the largest telescope, at
that time, in Europe.
St. Mary-le-Strand was the first of fifty
Churches built in London during the
reign of Queen Anne (1702-1714), and
was completed within nine years. The
architect was James Gibbs, whose design
was similar in style to that of nearby St.
Clement Danes, built in 1681 by Wren,
which appears in the background of the
accompanying illustration.
Features of the exterior of St. Mary-
le-Strand are the diminishing tiered
steeple of the Ionic portico, while inside
the Church are paintings of the Annuncia-
tion and the Passion by Robert Brown,
the artist who helped Sir James Thorn-
hill to paint the dome of St. Paul’s. The
elaborate ceiling of St. Mary-le-Strand is
slightly curved, and there is a gallery
above the door. Splendid examples of
eighteenth-century carving appear on the
organ screen and the massive pulpit.
Thomas a Becket was once rector of the
parish of St. Mary-le-Strand, and in the
present Church, on June 13th, 1809, John
Dickens, father of the famous novelist
Charles Dickens, was married.


rail
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne. Vic.
—— CUT HERE AND MAIL --f ——-
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address * *
(5.8.352) A S®
The Rad Page
"SUN ORCHIDS"
The trouble about Douglas Stewart as
a writer is that he won’t stand still to be
looked at. Poems, plays, short-stories,
criticisms: he slips easily and naturally
out of one form into another, instead of
concentrating upon one or two, as every
properly-constituted writer ought, of
course, to do; “he seems to think that
nobody minds his books being all of
different kinds.”
And in the same way he slips from
one kind and atmosphere into another
within a particular literary form, in his
poems especially. This is not so true of
his early collections, in which, in spite
of some lovely lines and images, he has
not fully realised his poetic individuality
—an individuality that is most marked,
in spite of what has just been said.
In his recent books, what could be more
different than The Dosser in Springtime,
exuberant and fanciful, from the grim and
tragic though here and there still whim-
sical ballad-sequence Glencoe, or either
from the book now under review— Sun
Orchids (Angus and Robertson)? The
first two especially illustrate another and
parallel characteristic of Stewart’s: his
capacity for interweaving, in a poem whose
dominant tone is sheer beauty or calm
dignity, phrases of humorous extrava-
gance. As a rule the two strands com-
bine to produce something that is the
more attractive for their contrast; but
occasionally, as in “The Bishop,” the at-
mosphere is broken and a fine thing
marred.
In Sun Orchids we have a collection
that represents moods and treatments as
far apart as any in The Dosser in
Springtime. About two-thirds of the
collection consists of curious, exact and
detailed glimpses of the wildflowers and
small creatures of the bush, poems that
are very uneven but often delightful and
sometimes brightened by flashes of
creative insight. For instance, the flowers
that give the book its title,
flecks like sand,
More like a distillation of sapphire air
Than anything out of the earth;
the
morsel of wild bush robin
As long as your little finger,
with the glimpse of the robin’s bath,
Breast-deep in the sky’s reflection,
and after he flies off.
Still it seems in the pool
That breast of crimson glows
And over the whole cold sky
Runs wave after wave of rose.
And there are the two frogs in the rain
Sculptured, stony and cold,
With motionless thighs of jade
And foreheads crowned with gold.
Here, too, Stewart, though he certainly
cannot be called a modernist, broadens
his effects by a characteristic refusal to
tie himself down within the old concep-
tion of what is appropriate to poetry, as
when he tells how
Spry with the thought of murder.
Goes hurrying by the spider,
Speckled and muttering oaths.
In strong contrast with this series are
the two longer poems, “Worsley En-
chanted” and “Terra Australis.” In the
first Stewart returns again to Antarctica,
the scene of his finest play. The Fire on
the Snow. Worsley, commander of the
Endurance, the vessel in which Shackleton
set out in his 1914 expedition through the
Weddell Sea, dreams his way again
through that expedition’s desperate
struggles with ice-packs, crevasses and
crushing bergs, amid “lights that flash
like mathematics at play.” In that “land
like the back of the moon,” from behind
the “wall of ice or glass” that confronts
its invaders, there come at times sugges-
tions of something beyond the natural
world.
This dream series, in which Shackleton
takes the place of Scott in The Fire on
the Snow, lacks the depth and structure
and something of the intensity of the
play, but it does not aim at them; its
motif is different. There is desperate
effort and even tragedy in its atmosphere,
but the dominant motif is beauty, a
beauty that, though sharp and realistic,
has about it at times a touch of the
mystic, and is enchanted and the more
compelling as it reappears in memory,
by reason of the fading with time of
some of the weariness and fear in which
the actors had moved. There are, for
instance, the visions of
the killing of the ship
The water black in her hold when the
timbers burst,
Her body, black on the ice, raised twisting
wp
On the marching floes, then dropped and
trampled; crushed;
and of the boat voyage across
that terrible ocean
Of midnight and nightmare,
in search of help for the twenty-two com-
panions left behind at Elephant Island.
But there are also intervals of unalloyed
beauty, as
„., , when the dead sea flushed
With the glare of five suns in the sky, five
wheels of fire
Spinning in the streams of crimson, where
the winter moon
In rushing silver swept the perpetual night,
And gentle as dream in wavering rose and
green
In an abstract beauty, a kind of flowering
of light
The aurora flowed its colors across the
mind.
Not least striking is the vision of the sick
man,
burnt inside me and cold when 1 move,
Freezing cold and breathing the cold of
the sea.
There is little or no character-drawing
in this poem ; Worsley is slightly indi-
cated and Shackleton merely a hero in
the background; though Crean, “that
saturnine bear,” springs to life for an
instant in this telling phrase. But the
series of scenes is striking as well as
beautiful, and they are all swirling with
action and bright with images.
The outstanding poem of the book is,
however, “Terra Australis,” a triumph of
the visionary imagination. Here those two
indomitable idealists. Captain Quiros and
William Lane, separated by centuries of
actual life, meet, out of time.
Sailing some highway shunned by trading
traffic
Where in the world’s skull like a moonlit
brain
Flashing and crinkling rolls the vast
Pacific....
Their flickering canvas breaking the horizon
That shuts the dead off in a world of mist.
Each is still seeking his earthly paradise,
hoped for, one in the east, the other in
the west. Each tells the other of the
disasters that have befallen him, but
scornfully refuses to believe the other’s
story;
As if a blast of bony breath could wither
The trees and fountains shining in my
mind;
and they part in a dazzle of radiance; —-
The wind from Heaven blew both ways at
once
And west went Captain Quiros, east went
Lane.
This poem goes beyond the ordinary
fairytale or fantasy in that there is much
more in it than the poetic relation of
imagined facts and circumstances. It has
been said that the mythopceic faculty is
lacking in modern poets; here, on a small
scale, this faculty exhibits itself in a
manner that is as bold and individual
as it is poetic; of its kind and within its
limits I don’t know of anything finer. *
The format of the book is attractive,
though the type might perhaps have been
a little larger and sharper, and Norman
Lindsay’s delicate pen-drawings, apart
from their illustrative value, are often in
themselves delightful.
H. M. GREEN.
Pioneers in Victoria
There are few memorials of districts
or of pioneers of districts that do not
contribute something unique to history;
certainly The History of Barham by
T. R. McConnell (printed by D. W.
Paterson, Ltd., Melbourne) is no excep-
tion, Barham began as 114,656 acres in
Victoria, on the Murray, leased to
Edward Bernard D. Green in 1843.
He had come to Sydney with the 4th
Regiment of the King’s Own in 1831,
thrown up his commission, and gone
pastoralist; and was already a wealthy
man when he established the new station,
named after his wife’s family. In 1840
he had secured the first Government
mail-contract to carry mail between
Sydney and Melbourne. The work was
mismanaged while he was on a visit to
England, and another carrier got the
contract. Green hurried back, and when
the new contractor tried to begin busi-
ness he found that Green had options
on all fodder and horses on the mail-
route —the Government had to give
Green back the contract at his own price.
In 1858 ill-health, resulting from a fall
from a horse, decided this remarkable
man to retire to England, leaving five
stations, of altogether 266,396 acres, to
be sold by agents: perplexity over
whether Bucket (now Bookit) Island —a
mere 10,000 acres—was or was not
included in one of these deals landed
Green into a lawsuit that went to the
Privy Council and cost him £30,000 in
legal expenses for a return from that sale
of £12,000. He had, of course, other
holdings, and considerable property in
Melbourne (his Royal Mail Hotel, at the
corner of Bourke- and Swanston-streets,
was recently sold by descendants for
£250,000), and died wealthy.
The Parkman family, who established
a dairy in the district in IS6O, used to
take their butter, cheese and bacon by
wagonette to market at Sandhurst, 100
miles away, crossing the Murray by run-
ning the wagonette on to a hollowed log,
which they towed across by wire cable,
and swimming the horses after it. Their
pigs increased at such speed that they
decided to drive them to market, too ;
at the rate of seven miles a day the
hundred-mile feat of droving would take
them about three weeks:
Many of these pigs were in a semi-wild
state, which added greatly to the difficulty
of driving them.
The author’s ancestor, William McCon-
nell, an Irish immigrant, took some land
on Barham station in 1881. For some
years before this he had been a Crown
Land agent, settling smallholders under
the 1875 Land Act; in perpetual strife
with squatters. The squatters had small
iron huts with skids that could be pushed
immediately on to land that looked like
being selected ; one of their specialties
was the construction of dams, which
constituted “improvements” worth an
acre of land for every £1 spent:
A station-owner made application for a
land-grant on the estimated value of a dam
stated to have a capacity of several thou-
sand cubic yards. A Government official
who inspected this improvement when it
was filled with water noticed that the heap
of dirt taken from the excavation appeared
small. He threw a stick in the water
about the middle of the dam and sent a
large dog....into the water to get the
stick. The dog went to the middle of the
dam and brought the stick back without
having to swim. Many small, shallow dams
were excavated in the 70’s and 80’s for
the purpose of procuring grants of land.
Again, there were the young man and
young woman, each with a selection, who
wanted to get married. To secure their
adjoining 640 acres apiece both had to
live three years on their own land:
The house was so designed that the
dividing-line passed through the kitchen and
bedroom.... the dining-table was placed so
that half was on each property the wife
sat on the side of the table on her property,
and the husband likewise on his property.
In the bedroom, the bed was similarly
placed.
There are many more stories of old-
time skullduggery in Mr. McConnell’s
monograph ; and of kangaroo-hunts—in
1878 they collected 11,000 . scalps in six
months; of the Barham Progress and
Farmers and Settlers’ Association; of
millions of super, feet of wood cut; of
hundreds of thousands of cases of
tomatoes grown; of the prices at Eagle’s
store in 1900:
1 pair boots 3s. 3d., 2 pairs dungaree-
pants ss. fid., 1 coat 4s. 6d., |lb. pepper
Bd., 3 cups and saucers Is. 6d., 4 pkts.
cigarettes Is., 3 handkerchiefs 6d., 1 suit
clothes 19s. 3d., quarter potatoes 9d.
Also there is Barham’s prowess in
sport. Their greatest single sportsman
was Briggs, the half-caste cricketer, who
was approached by the Test selection
committee in 1890, but was “of a shy
disposition and would not entertain the
idea of travelling to England.” But in
football, the district team, the “Border”
team, has been making itself felt since
1909; in 1936 and 1937 Border won the
Beaurepaire Cup in the Northern Dis-
trict contests played at Bendigo ; though
in 1950 their local rivals, the Koondrook
team, outclassed them.
N.Z. Sheepman
John Grigg of Longbeach (Whitcotnbe
and Tombs) is a pioneer monograph
which won for P. G. Stevens first prize
in the essay section of the Canterbury
centenary literary competitions. John
Grigg was a Comishman, crippled in one
leg by scalding brine, who sold up his
ancestral farm and went farming in New
Zealand in 1854.
He established a first-class farm near
Auckland, but in 1865 he sold it up and
bought Longbeach, near Christchurch
in the South Island: marshlands running
down to the sea. Beginning with 2000
acres, he “gridironed” the district, i.e.,
he bought small areas of the best land at
various points so placed that it would
not be worth other men’s while to buy
adjoining land; and by 1871 he held
32,000 acres.
Grigg’s two foremost achievements
were the breeding of sheep that could
be chilled and sent to England, and the
draining of his marshes ; his men scooped
a four-mile bed for the Hinds River
through the swamp, with scoops, horses
and shovels ; then opened up leads and
drains through the swamp to the river
and the sea. The reclaimed soil was sown
with grass.
By 1880 he had 150 permanent em-
ployees; and round his homestead was
a village: a baker, a bacon-curer hand-
ling a hundred carcasses a week, a
boiling-down plant which handled 2000
sheep in 1880 and gave full-time employ-
ment to a cooper making casks to hold
the tallow; there were fencers, road-
builders, teamsters, shepherds, herdsmen,
dairymen, carpenters building homes,
saddlers making winter-covers for stock,
and gardeners. Longbeach had its own
electricity from a dynamo run by a
water-wheel.
In 1882, dissolving the partnership with
his brother-in-law, Grigg sold all the
stock of Longbeach at auction. Crowds
attending the auction dined in a shed
that accommodated 500 at a sitting:
A caterer and 30 assistants, with the
help of the station cooks, bakers and
butchers, planned to feed 1500 visitors each
day. At the beginning of the week, while
the bakers cooked 600 four-pound loaves
and 20 hams, the butchers slaughtered six
rat steers, two vealer calves, 75 fat sheep
and 26 pigs.
Grigg had begun to sell his land, mostly
to employees, and to farm the portion he
retained more intensively. He brought
in a brickmaker who established a small
kiln, in which he baked bricks that made
a large kiln, and by 1889 the two kilns
were turning out field-drain tiles. By
1900, 150 miles of tiled drains, using
about a million tiles, were draining some
9000 acres.
It was at a meeting convened by Grigg
in 1881 that the Canterbury Frozen Meat
Company was formed ; he was chairman
of it until his retirement in the late ’nine-
ties. The first shipment went to England
in 1882, and J. C. N. Grigg, at Jesus
College, Cambridge, was able to serve
two cold hindquarters of Longbeach
sheep, received from his father, at
luncheon to the college eight. But in the
next year Grigg lost 4000 carcasses in a
sailing-ship he had chartered to take
them to England, the temperature having
been allowed to rise too high.
Reviewed Briefly
Gardening in Warm Climates: D. A.
Herbert (Angus and Robertson). Dr.
Herbert is Professor of Botany at the
University of Queensland, and the book
is illustrated with photographs by J. R
Bailey, curator of Brisbane Botani
Gardens. While it is chiefly concerne
with the north coast of N. 3. Wales up
to Mackay in Queensland, many of th
plants described grow in more southerly
parts of Australia, also in the North
Island of New Zealand. Some of th
subjects dealt with are flowers, orchids
fruits, vegetables, water-plants, orna
mental trees, weeds, pests and diseases
planting and maintenance—everything
needed to make a clear and useful hand
book.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Shakspeare ; Allardyce Nicol
(Methuen). A short book on a subjec;
that has filled libraries ; and quite a good
one, too. It amounts to a critical com-
mentary on the plays in the light of the
latest theories, and though chiefly in-
tended for the student (it is one of
Methuen’s “Home Study Books”) will
be of considerable interest to the adult
non-specialist reader.
» * * *
Castles in Spain : Frank Chine (Angus
and Robertson). Mr. Clune found “more
energy to the acre in Spain than I’ve seen
to the square mile in Australia” and,
again in contrast to Australia, it is “a
land where the people are poor but
happy, wherd surly scowls are seldom
seen and snarls of hate and envy seldom
heard.” Whatever may be one’s political
views on Franco’s Spain the book seems
too cheerful to be wholly reliable —
surely there is at least an occasional scowl
in the privacy of domestic life; not to
mention in prison—but still this happy
picture is undoubtedly what Mr. Clune
observed during his short visit, and as
such is worth noting. He saw bullfights
and the El Grecos and dug up the facts
about Columbus and Cervantes ... to
make an amiable, lightweight travel-book
in his usual successful formula, rather
more subdued than of yore in spite of
his cheerfulness.


Her age? Who knows?
with "Piucr women
over_ 30_canlooj^younger
Our new “Palace" Hair Restorer will restore former colour
and lustre to your grey hair. This is definitely not a miracle
treatment, but a product of chemical- research, painstakingly
tested for accuracy and safety. It has been developed to give you
new hair beauty without the great expense of most treatments.
It is safe, clean and easy to apply. A colourless restorer, it
imparts a natural appearance to the hair. With grey hair banished
this easy-as-brushing" way, you will look younger, feel
more confident, be more attractive. Because you'll look
'M
younger you will certainly
feel younger! This wonder-
ful, new Palace" Hair Restorer has been designed not only
TMltn W ADVEpflSlt^
for women but for men, too. And remember, “Palace" will
effectively treat all types of grey hair, from hair that was formerly
Red or Blonde to hair that was Brown or Black. For a more
youthful appearance, for more confidence, use “Palace" Hair
Restorer. Priced at 7/3 per bottle.
m
»
m
SS*S
m
m
_ 'PALACE" HAIR RESTORER IS
SO EASY TO USE AS SHOWN IN ABOVE PHOTOGRAPHS
mi
m
m
m
f
h
m
im
0
Swl. 4
a s$
B
J
J Brush the hair and shampoo
it thoroughly. Make sure it is
non-greasy and perfectly dry.
2 Mix the restorer in strength
necessary for your colour hair.
Apply lightly and sparingly with
a soft, clean brush and dry the
hair slowly, not in the sun. When
it is dry, wash thoroughly.
See the new lustre, colour
“Palace'’ has brought to your
hair.
&
L
&7&r
&
'll \sT
AS*.
5r
i'll
r
s?
kl,
] ?K
*>
a
P^£ St*'llMM ("KlAlllWM'
i"*cnp mi > inert pi muinci'l' 1 ’*■
Sloihomii tid'i i u ci ii’.ii tin "•;
*'* ** ‘Votl\ nOCH Mil
, 'A E W LIU- I
,'x » c •■» rt I. r i'On.
f nai\i hi. 1 * oni>iO”|
° of> «n.i7 rti>r c-wv ?ir fiNillU
111 c "<ll liilMnlilll tiOi’Oi'f"
S'N -Hi ii ■ > ,, /w or ~ ( w6 rtny
To .■IVM-en/t W (Y n-Sci'} i, ../vjl
'•WHI-CU OIS3
!="«/ /
iO| T »e uecc /ocrt/fx /■" nn»
oin oe i> i «» <ai-< r cimi
WCiAhil /((,<" Ot Q M/7 rti"";*
i\rt<Lt OF /ICC ftLcHO in
o /),- poiA ,I, ‘*
T'IKC | I'All L c "■( tN> J 11 * 1 *
Ao,rr
hohbfrks
SYETSEV"
. . . has brought relief to thousands
Dr. McKenzie’s Stomach & Nerve Tonic, 3/- bottle
A tonic made to an accurate prescription
by the famous Doctor Stephen McKenzie.
It coats the stomach, helps the liver to
work, and relaxes the nerves. Wonderful
for all indigestion, dyspepsia and sleep-
lessness.
Is’
o. . ••
Will
I'M'
FRENCH
CORN
CURE
2/4 r;
A worl’d famous cure that con-
tains no harmful ingredients.
After several applications of the
ointment, foot callouses and
hard skin disappear and corns
are, painlessly removed by the
roots.
m>.
w>
71
"PALACE"
YEAST TABLETS
2/6 per 100
A general tonic to re-
store vitality and zest
For indigestion, constipation,
“Palace” pure yeast tablets give
you that feeling of well-being!
m
m
OK S POM*
aarfiss?
NASON'S
POMADE
Grey Hair Restorer
Dandruff Remedy
5/4 jar
Olive oil, lanolin and other natural
beneficial oils arc scientifically
blended into this hair dressing.
“Nason’s" promotes growth and
completely removes all dandruff!


How to Attract
DOLLAR
TOURISTS
By GAVIN CASEY
k il ORE rot is talked these days
/ Y I a k° ut dollar tourists for Aus-
/ \ tralia than about most subjects,
generally by civic and other dig-
nitaries from Australia who have for a
brief and lavishly-entertained period been
£A tourists in the United States.
Nothing seems to impress these gentle-
men as much as a bathroom, particularly
if they can have it all to themselves.
Their main reason for visiting
America, though, has not been to have
a bath —any more than ablutions will
ever be the main reason for Americans
to come to Australia, whatever headlines
may from time to time be devoted to the
“folly” of expecting temperamental
Yankee entertainers and arrogant, over-
cashed industrialists to walk all the way
along a pub passage to wash themselves.
A few years ago I spent about 30
months in the United States as an Aus-
tralian Government publicist, and as part
of my job tried to find out as much as I
could about the requirements of American
tourists in other countries. By the time I
came back home I was convinced of
certain things, but I was to find they had
little interest for the authorities who were
presumably promoting tourist traffic.
Seemingly the good old cry that we
could have millions of easy dollars a year
merely by putting our pubs in order was
one that had stood the test of time, and
involved much less work than some real
examination of the problems of getting
American tourists.
One of the conclusions I formed was
that nobody who was sane would spend
two-thirds of a three-months holiday
travelling, in order to spend one month
in Australia or anywhere else. One of
the attractions of Europe to the American
who can’t afford long-distance air-fares
and most can’t—is that the voyage each
way takes a week or less, and while there
he can visit not one but several countries,
and come home with a lot of things to
talk about and variety in his snapshot
album.
American interest in and curiosity
about Australia was —and is—consider-
able, but not so consuming as to justify
some 20,000 miles of travel for no other
purpose than to satisfy it.
The only way we will get more than a
few Yanks here is to offer them, say,
alternative three- and six-month tours,
with a promise of amusement every one
of the ninety or hundred-and-eighty days,
and a major change of scene and country
once a week for the period. The only
way we can do this is by full and com-
plete co-operation, free from jealousy
and squabbles over who has the biggest
slice of cake, with New Zealand, Hawaii
and even the western States of the U.S.
Despite West Coast ballyhoo, the
major American concentrations of both
wealth and solid prosperity are not too
far from the Eastern seaboard. To
people there Australia looks pearly as far
away as Mars, but if they were offered in
the one package “A three-months’ tour,
that starts with all that is most exciting
in America’s own glorious West -
glamorous days and nights at sea on the
millionaires’ ocean playground between
San Francisco and Honolulu —a Hawaiian
welcome into the languorous South Seas —
the thrill of crossing the Equator, with
King Neptune and his mermaids to make
it memorable —two weeks of streamlined
overland travel in Australia, the United
States of tomorrow, where friendly people
and quaint, lovable animals enchanted the
G.l.’s —ten days of comfortable adventure
among the rugged mountains, trout-
streams, snows and steaming geysers of
New Zealand,” and so on, they would be
interested.
As part of such a scheme, Australia
should offer secondary, optional tours of
battlefields and war-cemeteries in New
Guinea. To get the whole of it moving.
men who understand the idea should be
given wide powers to negotiate not only
with the tourist authorities who would
have to join in, but with all the shipping-
and air-lines, railways, tourist-bus com-
panies and other private and Govern-
mental interests which would be involved.
They should not be expected to turn on
the flow of dollars overnight, but might,
perhaps, have to report in six months to
an authority capable of balancing their
achievement against its likely results.
The plan could be an immense success
without bringing a single extra millionaire
to Australia, and it is very doubtful if it
would attract the revoltingly rich. What
it would bring would be people of
moderate wealth, who wanted value for
their money but would consider any
extended vacation cheap at $3OO (£AI33)
a week for a couple; school and uni-
versity teachers on their sabbatical leave ;
and possible permanent settlers who
wanted to look the place over with return-
transport assured.
New Zealand, Honolulu, and Western
America would, of course, get their share
of both the tourist money and the per-
manent settlers, but any country which
stood out of the scheme once it got going
would be adopting a dog-in-the-manger
Stories
A characteristically fine short
story by Brian James —
‘After Twenty Years”
In next week’s "Bulletin” batch.
attitude of which i. would no. be proud
01 WffWrd to wha. Americans would
want here this would include Better hote s
‘hfn we have now-which we nerd our-
selves anyway but not the tile-ane
chromium palaces Australians have been
half-convinced are necessary I was
assmed often and earnestly by Arthur
0 Connor, Australian news-
paperman who was beforej he war
American West Coast manager or
Australian National Travel Ass ci t ,
that through the year*
Australian tours for more than SWO
Amencans-and never had a complaint
accommodation from one of them
Admittedly such thing be -
here then but the bed-and-bath system
waB already general in the United St s,
and > m Arthur O Connor s rds ’ , T e ?.
were 80 Pleased at g<°od fo<od ain
scenes for few dollars that they forg
all about that.
In any case, most Americans would be
rather annoyed if they found real civilisa-
tion outside their own land, and most are
quite enchanted by European countries
where they are extremely lucky to get a
bath at all.
On Getting a Gas Bill
IT seemed a colossal amount. I
had more-or-less got used to the
idea —as they cunningly know you
will —of the insidious small in-
crease each quarter, but this one, a
leap of almost 100 p.c., was over
the odds.
Waiting only for my blood-pressure
to ease down below 200, I grabbed
my hat and rushed down to the Gas
Co., determined to strike while the
iron of my temper was white-hot.
“Where’s the manager?” I de-
manded of the first fellow I saw. He
had varnished hair and a violent
necktie and was suave of manner.
He looked at me coolly.
“He’s out at the moment,” he
said affably. “As a matter of fact,
he’s out at the gasworks giving them
a hand to wheel a rather alarming
accumulation of barrels of smoke
out of the retort-room. It isn’t that
he has to do it, but the exercise helps
him keep his weight up. Did you
want to see him about your gas bill?”
he asked as he glanced significantly
at the savagely-crumped bill I was
still clutching.
“Oh, no,” I replied. “I really
wanted to discuss with him the best
way to let gas out of a cow that has
had a three-hour session among wet
lucerne, and also to seek his advice
as to whether oxalic acid is best for
removing warts or cleaning an opera
hat.”
He reached out, gently took the
bill, unravelled it and swept out his
hand.
“Take a pew,” he said. 1 “You con-
sider your bill excessive?”
“Excessive! ” I echoed. “Why, if
I were to switch to an all-electric
home you’d have to close down one
of your big retorts. I couldn’t pos-
sibly have used”
“Do you use the griller much?” he
interrupted.
“Only for cooking chops, steak
and sausages,” I replied. “We used
to grill the tripe under it, but the gas
was so poor it would never brown
properly. Everything else I grill out
in the backyard over an open fire,
except in wet weather. I find it’s
more efficient than the smelly pro-
duct you sell at so exorbitant a
price.”
“Does your wife do much bak-
ing?” he asked next.
“Never,” I replied. “She freckles
far too easily. But what the hell’s
that got to do with the size of my
gas bill?”
He tugged at his collar and started
again.
“How many have you in the
family, Mr. Bortz?”
“There are ten children—no,
eleven, I think —and there’s my wife’s
two aunts, my grandmother
and”
He held up his hand. “That will
be enough to go on with,” he said,
breathing heavily. “Why, the hot
baths alone for all that number,
especially in the winter quarter this
bill covers, would”
“Who said we have hot baths in
the winter?” I asked. “If we did I’d
have to sell my yacht to pay the gas
bills. We all have cold baths.”
“Your grandmother, too?”
“Certainly. She’s first up every
morning to break the ice, and she
massages afterwards with a texture
brick. We Bortzes are tough.”
“I suppose that in the sum-
mer” he began with a sneer.
“Exactly!” I cut in. “We all take
a hot bath in front of the fire every
Saturday night, then clarify the
water through a fine sieve after every
six. But,” I went on quickly, as he
opened his mouth to speak, “I don’t
use your flickering product—l get
the hot water from the radiator of
my 1921-model Di Dion, It boils in
exactly three minutes, and that’s ten
times the speed of your lousy gas.”
“But in the winter surely the
children” .
“They all go and get dry-cleaned
once a week,” I said. “If they used
the bath-heater I’d have to go to
work as well as the wife, her aunts
and my grandmother.”
He shot off on another tack.
“With a family of your size,”, he
resumed, “you would naturally use
the copper quite a lot, and that eats
up”
“We only use the copper for boil-
ing the eggs in,” I said. “And then
it’s never more than half-full. We
have an electric washing-machine,
so you can’t blame the big washes
for the size of the bill.”
“But how do you heat the water
for that?” he asked.
“We don’t,” I replied. “I hold
the theory that hot water rots the
clothes. Wo wash them in cold
water.”
I could see the fellow was getting
a desperate look.
“How long is it since you had
your pipes blown?” he asked.
“That is a personal question which
I resent,” I said sternly. “If you
must know. I’ve never had an opera-
tion, and, anyway, the state of my
internal works has nothing to do
with”
He got up then. “Listen,” he said,
glancing at his watch. “I have to
see a man about a stove. I’ll hand
you over to Miss Kydder. She has
been specially assigned to handle
cases like yours,”
Miss Kydder, who had a room to
herself, was a bottle-blonde with
atomic curves and a 100-candle-
power smile. Her calorific rating
proved to be considerably higher
than her company’s product.
It was a most cheerful session, and
I left with a conviction that gas bills
aren’t so important, after all, as well
as with her telephone-number.
Bo.
How to Knock Back
A Stupendous Offer
IN the days when Hal Gye was draw-
ing Melbourne theatrical and other
caricatures for The Bulletin he
received a letter from a political
organisation in Sydney offering him the
job of drawing caricatures of Victorian
celebrities for the organisation’s paper.
It mentioned that the salary would be
£2 a week.
Pleased over this lucky turn-up, Hal
went along to the famous Ye Olde Mitre
Tavern in Bank-place to drink success
to himself in his new job-—and there met
Randolph Bedford.
After the greetings and a drink he
proudly told Randolph of the good offer
he had just received, not mentioning the
salary. Then, with the friendly Randolph
wishing him the best of luck in his new,
additional job, he warmed-up to the
occasion, and, feeling the importance of
basking in the great Bedford’s company,
helped by a seasoning of hops, produced
the political organisation’s letter for
Randolph to see the offer for himself.
Randolph took the letter majestically,
and, standing off like Samson returned,
began calmly to read it through. He
came to the mention of salary, and at
that his voice rose in great wrath and
thunder;
“The mongrels!”
Hal looked incredulous.
“The scoundrels!” said the thunder,
“Two pounds a week for the services of
a Bulletin man!”
And, as lightning splits the suffering
gums, a tempestuous roar blasted,
destroyed and devoured all such dastards
for all time. The effrontery of them!
The hide of them!
Randolph rammed the letter furiously
into his pocket. Like a stern father he
ordered the now-dazed artist to accom-
pany him to the post-office. Hal fol-
lowed like a lamb.
Down Bourke-street the wrathful
Randolph pounded, with the small Hal
meekly following him, while Bourke-
street echoed the hurt, wounded cry “Two
pounds a week for a Bulletin man!
Two pounds a week for a Bulletin
man!”
Arrived at the post-office, Randolph
seized a telegraph-form, angrily dashed
off a telegram to Hal’s prospective em-
ployer, or employers, irrevocably dis-
patched it, stamped out of the post-office,
authoritatively hailed a passing hansom,
shoved Hal in like a guardian, lit a fight-
ing cigar, blew smoke out like an explo-
sion, thundered “Mitre Tavahn!” got in
magnificently himself, and, as they drove
off, from beneath the champion’s ample,
woolly, broadly-patterned overcoat the
same hurt, anguished plaint: “Two
pounds a week for a Bulletin man.
rose above the sound of hooves and
wheels and echoed up and down Bourke-
street.
After that the artist heard no more
from the political organisation in Sydney
and lost a £2-a-week job that would have
been most welcome to him at the time
The telegram read: “Two pounds wee
preposterous offer to a Bulletin man
Cannot accept less than ten Hal Gye.
JAMES HACKSTON.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 15, 1952
Vol. 73—No. 3792
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth .
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
MOSCOW TALKS
Analysts of the 19th conference of the Communist
party of Soviet Russia, which is the culmination of a
rash of Communist-party conferences throughout the
countries behind the Iron Curtain, profess to detect
in its proceedings a “new line” —one which pretends
that capitalism and Communism can live together.
Ibis is not new. It is the same line followed at
the 18th congress in March, 1939. It is no more
novel than the zealous propagation by the conference
of the solemn warning that the United States is trying
dominate the world and to ruin the other partners
m N.A.T.O. Exactly the same idea was propagated
m 1939, save that Germany, not the United States,
was the supposed criminal. The objective now, as
then, was to split the Western world.
All criticism which does not accept the fact that
Comrade Malenkov’s main thesis is physically imprac-
ticable is basically invalid. It is impossible for any
Communist to accept his statement that “Soviet
policy is based on the assumption of the peaceful co-
existence of capitalism and Communism and mutual
consideration.” No Communist could admit the
possibility of this position being tenable. Any Com-
munist Government which embraced such a plan
would immediately cease to be Communist, since the
very basic teaching of Communism is that Communism
can only be achieved by the ruthless world-wide
destruction of all its opponent systems.
It was Stalin himself who in March, 1939, put
forward exactly the same ideas as are now put forward
by his deputy. But it was also Stalin who, seven
months afterwards, on the anniversary of the
October” revolution which placed the Communists
m power in Russia (November 7, 1939), delivered
himself of the following, which was promptly pub-
lished in every Communist organ throughout the world
as a directive:
In undermining imperialism, the Russian October
revolution concomitantly established a powerful and
open base for the world revolutionary movement,
represented by the first proletarian dictatorship, a
base which it never had before and on which it can
now rely. It created a powerful and open centre of
world revolutionary movement which it never
possessed before arid around which it can now rally
and organise a united revolutionary front of the
proletarians and of the oppressed nations of all
countries against imperialism.
And Stalin added that “by sowing the seeds of
revolution both in the centres of imperialism and in its
rear, by weakening the power of Imperialism’ in the
mother countries and undermining its domination in
the colonies, the October revolution has jeopardised the
very existence of world capitalism as a whole” ; that
“the era of the downfall of capitalism has begun....
the era of the domination of Leninism has
arrived.”
While the Russian leaders are airing their theories
on the peaceful co-existence of capitalism and Com-
munism their official propaganda department is dis-
seminating both inside and outside Russia a blast
against potential capitalist aggressors. The conference
speakers, led by Molotov, have dwelt insistently on
supposed Western plans of attack directed against the
Soviet Union. And the word “peace” decorates every
line or so of publicity issued from Moscow, Bucharest
and Peking, the centres of Russian imperialist effort.
It all sounds very inconsistent, but it isn’t, because
Communist words have an entirely different implica-
tion to Communists and to Western readers. “Peace”
to the average Western reader means just that, but
the “Marxist Glossary,” which Communists need to
comprehend their leaders, says that “pacifism which
fails to differentiate between just and unjust wars
rejects the only guarantee of peace, the mass struggle
against imperialism and its replacement by world
Socialism through world revolution”;
“Boycott war” is a stupid phrase. Communists
nmst take part even in the most reactionary wars.
[Lenin.]
“Peace” with Communists is officially specified to
mean peace “according to the doctrines of Leninism-
Marxism” ; in other words, peace obtained through
world revolution, without which Moscow premises
there can be no peace, since it cannot exist while even
a vestige of imperialism—“monopoly international
capitalism”—remains to oppose Communist ideas.
“Aggression” in Communist language, also, means
something different from what the same word means
in ordinary English—it means, in Communist
language, any measure, defensive or otherwise, taken
by the capitalist world to hamper the world revolu-
tionary plans of the Soviet Union. It was not
“aggression” for Russia to divide Poland with the
“blood-drunk” Nazis, nor “aggression” to attack little
Finland on a flimsy pretext and to occupy the small
Baltic States without a pretext, or to absorb Czecho-
slovakia through a fifth-column.
But it is “aggression” to defend South Korea, and
it is “aggression” by a “warmongering” Government
for Australia to build up its local defences, because
this measure hampers the coming of “peace” through
Communist victory in either the cold or hot war over
the forces of that same world capitalism with which
Comrade Malenkov says the U.S.S.R. is eager to live
in amity.
FORECAST: HEAVY DEPRESSION FROM THE NORTH, SOUTH.
EAST AND WEST URGENTLY HOPED FOR
The Calamity Howlers
When a family finds it has , been living beyond
its means the only thing it can do is examine
its expenditure and cut down on items previously
considered necessary, but which in the light of
changed circumstances are seen to be not indispensable.
Some members mav feel tbev have been
• y , u th if y , b
unjustly treated, that the cuts have hurt them more
than ritbers but tbe decision has to be made and
b Wr> w
when this has been there is nothing for it bu
for all hands to krackle own an work harder un d
financial equilibrium is again reached.
This i s tbe position forced on Australia by the
spending spree of the post-war years, and a nations
way out of such a situation is not greatly dissimilar,
Realisation that a reckoning was due came tardily
to the Australian family. Galloping costs and runaway
prices did not bear with equal weight on all sections
of the community Those on fixed incomes felt the
impact first, then those with heavy family obligations.
fair f to sa J those with least respon-
sibihties felt it least, and that many of them are even
yet not aware that, in the words of Premier Cahill,
the post-war honeymoon is over and that it is now
necessary to do a fair day s work for a fair day s pay.
Judging by their utterances, Dr. Evatt and his
“Labor” followers are among those who refuse to
believe that the era of easy money and overfull
employment cannot last for ever. In their professed
view there is no justification or necessity for even one
man to be unemployed. “Labor,” they say, has
pledged -itself to full employment, and if “Labor”
were returned to power tomorrow there would be
jobs for all. Such unemployment as now exists has,
they pretend, come about solely through the policy of
the Menzies Government, either through ineptitude or
by evil design (the party seems to be unable to make
up its mind on this point, so for the time being it is
giving both horses a run).
But although “Labor” hates and detests the thought
of unemployment, and would banish it with a wave
of its wand (if only someone would give it the wand),
from its leader downwards it seems to be snatching a
fearful joy from -what unemployment exists.
“Labor,” in plain words, is capitalising unem-
ployment for all it is worth. Evatt and the rest see
it as an election-winner —first in Flinders, then for
the Senate next year and finally the Reps. Victory
achieved, the party can then get down to conjuring
up cheap money and “jobs for all,” but until it is
achieved unemployment suits “Labor’s” book.
How else can the party’s calamity crying be
explained? Even though Dr, Evatt learned his
economics at the knee of Jock Garden, he must know
that panic-cries and doleful prophecies can be most
potent contributory factors in turning a temporary
recession into a serious slump.
It is sheer hypocrisy to pretend that
full employment can be achieved and maintained
permanently by Government action. Mr. Chifley,
when Prime Minister and planner of Australia as a
Socialist State, made no pretence that there would
never be a time when some men were out of work.
The whole tone of “Labor” comment on unem-
ployment is calculated to create the impression that
vast numbers are out of work, and that the workless
army is snowballing to an alarming degree. At
Question-time, by interjections and by dragging the
subject into every debate, the Opposition sedulously
plugs the theme that depression is already here. The
campaign is a continuation of the poisonous unemploy-
ment-pool myth circulated at the time of the 1949
election; the story today is that the pool has arrived
and will swell into a flood unless “Labor” is called
in to dry it up.
In a Flinders by-election speech the Prime Minister
showed the hollowness of “Labor’s” scare-talk. He
pointed out that persons receiving unemployment
relief at the end of August represented 0.7 per cent,
of the work-force, compared yvith 2.1 per cent, on
relief in Britain, 2.8 per cent, in America and 4.1 per
cent, in Canada (generally considered the most
prosperous country in the world).
Nor is it true that unemployment has been snow-
balling. At the end of August, when 24,629 persons
were receiving relief, the total registered as unemployed
(including those who had not been out of work
sufficiently long to qualify for relief) was 58,247. On
October 7 the Minister for Social Services gave the
latest figure on,relief as 26,699. That is an increase
certainly, but it is obvious that many of those
registered at August 31 must have since obtained
other jobs, otherwise the number on relief would
have more than doubled in the meantime. This is
borne out by reports from refrigerator-manufacturers
and the textile-industry.
In times of transition there is bound to be some
degree of unemployment. This cannot be cured simply
by giving every displaced worker a Government job
paid for out of bank credit. The prime ingredients
of a cure for financial ills are still hard work and
faith in the future, and probably the most important
duty of Government at such a time is to restore and
maintain confidence in industry. Dr. Evatt seems to think
the main function of the Opposition is to destroy it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Billy the Conqueror
“I do not intend to snend mv next *8
years in Parliament, but one can never
tell what one can do when one is goaueu
to it.”
So spoke the indomitable William Morris
Hughes at his birthday dinner on Sept. 25
in Canberra, and a few days after was
carried out of the House of Reps, to a
sickbed on which for days he lay deemed
to be fatally stricken.
Throughout Australia all sorts and con-
ditions of people figuratively waited
anxiously on the result of the fight of
his life by “the little man,” as S. M. Bruce
used to call him.
Twenty years ago, when he was laid
low with a broken ankle and his doctor
shuddered at the condition of his arteries,
his expectation of life was placed not
very high.
Last week he Was reduced to a
coma. His case seemed hopeless. But
there was nothing comatose about the
fighting spirit which has upheld this extra-
ordinary—this legendary—man through-
out his life. He suddenly came to and
demanded a cup of tea and the papers.
The devoted attendants about his bed
saw a recovery of the old tempestuous
personality as it defied alike the infirmities
of his flesh and their ministrations to it.
They could, in truth, never tell what he
could do if he were goaded to it —at 88,
as at half that age.
If “Billy” believes in reincarnation —
though he is apparently resolved against
any renewal of such a process by himself,
just yet —he might cast an eye back some
850 years to the man whom historians
have limned as the rouser of Europe
to the First Crusade. This is how Gibbon
described Peter the Hermit:
His stature was small, his appearance
contemptible ; but he had a keen and lively
eye, and he possessed that vehemence of
speech which seldom fails to impart per-
suasion to the soul.
The fates being willing, the veteran
may be expected to reappear in Parlia-
ment before this session ends. He has
made up his mind upon that in the spirit
which has carried him through every
fight against adversity and enabled him,
in his own phrase, to “conquer the un-
conquerable, unscrew the inscrutable.”
U.N.O. and War
The United Nations Assembly meets this
week in an atmosphere which smells of
death and decay.
Even the optimistic Mr. Trygve Lie
now has his doubts whether a Third
World War can be avoided, which is
not surprising, since, if reports from
Korea are accurate, the third world war
seems to be on the doorstep.
A war in which the armies of China,
munitioned and armed by Russia and
satellites, and perhaps even, served by
Russian specialists, have over 1,000,000
men in the field against the forces of the
British Commonwealth, the United States,
France, Turkey, Belgium and some other
States, can scarcely be called local. The
scale on which it is being fought in terms
of armament has nothing Korean or
local about it.
On a peak held by the South Koreans
last week it was stated that 100,000 shells
were fired as a preliminary to a Chinese
massed attack which wiped out the in-
ferior holders. And the Australian Royal
Battalion —which is in a quiet sector,
relatively speaking—has had 300 casual-
ties in 11 weeks, a heavier incidence than
any battalion had, except in great en-
gagements, during World War 11.
Moreover, events in international
politics are alarming. On September 2
Stalin and Mao took the trouble to ex-
change notes. Mao announced that
“Japanese militarism is being revived
again” and the “aggressive forces of
Japan raising their head,” and that “the
inviolable friendship and alliance be-
tween China and the Soviet Union are a
firm guarantee of averting repetition of
aggression on the part of Japan”-—which
both parties know would be impossible
for many years, if ever —“or any other
State which would unite with Japan in
acts of aggression.” Stalin ominously
added the greetings of the Soviet Army
to his own and concluded his message
with the slogan: “Long Live the People’s
Liberation Army of the Chinese People’s
Republic.”
In Europe, with Germany a subject of
heated contention, with manoeuvres, on
both sides, all over the Continent which
look like full-dress rehearsals, with Tito
galvanised to action in tightening his
alliances with the West, and with inspec-
tions of the armies of the countries, such
as Turkey, nearest the Soviet borders by
General Ridgway and Field-Marshal
Montgomery, and exchanges of military
missions going on everywhere, it almost
looks as if the U.N.O. Assembly may be
meeting at a time when the sands are
running out; certainly at the time when
U.N.O. is ripe for disintegration.
There has never been anything more
absurd in the whole history of diplomacy
than that this un-co-ordinated mob of
dissident nations meeting solemnly to pro-
claim the virtues of peace, with a savage
aggressor and satellites sitting in its
midst and authorised to veto its every
important move. It is meeting while the
soldiers of leading members of its direct-
ing councils kill each other on the Chor-
won front.
It seems time that the Western nations
of U.N.O. decided to form themselves
into a council of defence and acknowledge
the true position and intentions of the
Russians.
Mr. PlayforcTs Record
Next month Thomas Playford will have
been Premier of South Australia for 14
years. He has already, within the past
few weeks, beaten Parkes’s record for
length of period in office —11 years 296
days—by two years. And he looks, on
present indications, nearly immovable,
unless he himself wishes to retire.
Under his rule, while becoming in-
creasingly industrialised, South Australia
is an area of contentment and progress.
“Labor’s” opposition, fierce in the
Federal sphere, is half-hearted against
him, and its co-operation with him in his
programme has no parallel in “Labor”
history anywhere.
Occasionally a murmur rises that he
has made himself a permanency by his
arrangement of seats, but the fact remains
that, whereas in “Labor” States the
tendency is to throw as much power as
possible to the thickly populated areas,
S.A. sticks to the reasonable belief that
pioneer and farming areas have special
rights of representation in the interests
of their development.
Mr. Playford has stayed in power by
methods which are old-fashioned but re-
freshing to contemplate. A returned
soldier, badly wounded, who enlisted at
19 years of age, he seems to thrive
physically on the job, perhaps because
he has not yet come round to the modern
theory that Ministers should run the
administrative side of the civil service. He
confines himself to policy and larger
issues, particularly the attraction of busi-
ness and population to the State. He
does no more detail than necessary, and
in all his proceedings —even those in the
Loan Council —he adopts a non-political
outlook which disarms Opposition
criticism.
The paradox about his policy is that
it, not “Labor,” may defeat him in the
end, because, due to his energy, his State
is being industrialised, and “Labor” votes
accumulate in it from elsewhere.
He is, of course, helped by the small-
ness of the S. Australian Parliament,
which has much of the characteristics of
a large committee. His majority over 12
“Labor” men and four Independents is
only seven in a house of 39, and there
are 20 members in the Legislative
Council. He gets along with six
Ministers, including himself (he holds
Treasury, Immigration, Industry and Em-
ployment) ; three Ministers fewer than
Tasmania and four fewer than W.A, And
he is also helped by the fact that South
Australians have kept their feet on the
ground. Their State is one of those in
which it is still necessary to work to
live, and where, despite a strong sporting
ingredient, public affairs still take pre-
cedence in the Press over those of bookies
and black boxers.
New States are more likely to find their
models of stability, frugality and reason-
able government in S. Australia than in,
say, Cahill’s N. S. Wales.
Pillage in Queensland
Queenslanders have been told that
pillaging from the railways costs their
Government (which means them ) more
than £50,000 a year in claims, but that
this by no means covers the value of
goods stolen.
A Brisbane “Courier-Mail”- reporter
searched police files, asked questions of
police, railway officials and others. He
found that the “anti-pillage railway squad”
comprised 11 men equipped with one
moth-eaten motor-truck, that they are
paid by the railways but controlled by
the police, and that they are “regarded
as a joke.”
Police frankly told the reporter that,
what with red-tape, apathy, the “grape-
vine,” and railway failure to maintain
watch over goods, they weren’t in the
race.
Pillage, of course, isn’t something
Queenslanders have on their own. If
anything, it is even worse in other States ;
total annual pillage from railways
throughout Australia probably reaches
£1,000,000. In one form or another it is
rampant and widespread, in common with
the attitude that pinching from railways,
wharves, Government works and the like
is no crime.
It calls for two things. One is pro-
vision for more severe punishment of con-
victed offenders —punishment that would
be a real deterrent. The other is the
appointment of special investigators who
will have authority to override obstacles
that now confront police, and who will
be responsible in their duties only to the
Government. They would have to be
properly paid and equipped. If it cost
£50,000 a year it would be worth the
money.
Meantime, railway authorities in
Queensland, and elsewhere, would have a
far better argument for legislative protec-
tion of their railways against private
competition if they made a serious and
sustained effort to wipe out pillage.
The Awful Example
Dr. Evatt began the Flinders fight in
cock-a-hoop spirits. It seemed he believed
that he —though coming from Sydney —
could win a Melbourne seat for socialisa-
tion despite the current awful example
supplied by N.S.W. experience.
To give this stunt any sort of chance
it was necessary to muzzle Brother Clive,
No. 3 on the list of responsibles for the
said awful example ; and muzzled Brother
Clive has accordingly been.
But this was of no avail with the
N.S.W. Socialists, openly engaged in
sacking hands, closing down public
works, increasing taxation, raising fares
—in short, doing all the things that Dr.
Evatt was blaming Menzies for, both now
and in anticipation, and all the things
that Victorian “Labor,” under Mr. Cain,
had been doing in that State through his
puppet, Premier McDonald.
In consequence, and before the ’flu
drove his leader to bed, the party lead
in Flinders was taken by Mr. Calwell,
whom nobody can identify with Sydney
or the mess “Labor” has made in Sydney.
But the awful example keeps obtrud-
ing itself. The Socialist campaigners
attempted to slate the Menzies Gov-
ernment, elected on an anti-Socialisa-
tion policy, for getting out of
Government-run businesses like manu-
facturing radio-sets and retailing
petrol. The high-sounding “Labor”
paraphrase for this is “sacrificing
national assets in A.W.A. and C.0.R.”
But this line is blown upon, too, by the
example from the Socialist paradise in
N.S.W. of the Cahill Government hand-
ing over to private enterprise not only its
costly State tile-works, but also the re-
placement of the late (bumt-out) money-
eating Government hotel at Kosciusko,
one of those tourist reception-houses to
which Brother Clive refused any increase
in tariff charges because the workers, he
held, were entitled to cheap holidays at
the taxpayers’ expense.
So the Socialist campaign in Flinders
became reduced to the “safe” line of
blaming the Menzies Government for
the drying-up of the blackmarketing of
labor under the Socialists’ legacy of so-
called “full employment”; for taxes
called “intolerable,” though “Labor”
virtually promises to double them as soon
as it is given power to do so ; and for not
acting much earlier to combat inflation
—during its first 18 months of office, in
fact, when “Labor” could, and did,
through its Senate majority, block every-
thing the Government attempted.
The Liberation of Credit
Behind the liberation of commercial
credit from the iron grip of the central
bank, which derives its strength in this
matter from the 1945 Banking Act, lies
the Menzies Government’s declared and
wholly desirable policy that “no control
shall be continued when it can be lifted
or relaxed without detriment to the
economy.”
What has happened is that central-bank
control over the purposes for which bank
advances are made has been discontinued
—on the initiative of the central bank
itself, the Prime Minister said —leaving
the trading banks free to determine the
nature, direction and volume of their
own lending according to the canons
of sound finance. Which is as it ought
to be.
Previously the central bank, acting like
a Fairy Godmother, exercised such finan-
cial restraints and inducements as it
thought best in the interests of the
economy as a whole, issuing quasi-
politico-economic directives for the pur-
pose. Recent economic developments
have outmoded this practice, and so pro-
vided the opportunity for throwing it
overboard in the interests of freer and
healthier commercial enterprise.
Because Australia spent a great deal
more on imports than it earned from
exports over the last 12 months or more
some very disquieting results threatened.
The worst of them were averted by restric-
tion of imports and prompt extension of
bank-lending. The increased lending has,
of course, run down the liquid resources
of the banks, and therefore severely
limited the extent to which they can
further assist borrowers at the moment.
Moreover, credit is likely to remain
tight until bank deposits begin to build
up again. This is expected to occur as
cheques for wool, wheat, metals, meat,
dairy-produce and other exports roll in,
as traders’ overdrafts are reduced by the
working-down of excessive stocks, etc.,
and as more money is injected into the
system by the issue of new Treasury bills
to finance public works.
Control of bank-lending began in 1941
with the introduction of the special-
account system as a voluntary war-time
measure to limit the spread of inflation.
This form of credit-control was made per-
manent by the Chifley Government’s 1945
Banking Act, which further narrowed the
scope and flexibility of bank activities by
providing for a wide range of socialistic
controls, exercised at the discretion of
the central bank, relating to advances,
foreign exchange, interest-rates, invest-
ments and petty matters connected with
administration. The Menzies Govern-
ment intends to strengthen the position
of the trading banks by amending the
1945 Banking Act. Details of its pro-
posals are now awaited.
Two flies in the ointment are the use
of Treasury-bill finance and the self-
propelling wage-cost structure, which sug-
gests that the main emphasis in public
policy has shifted from stability of the
currency to employment.
Beer and Butter
Beer and politics go together, but when
ice-cream and politics get mixed the ice-
cream-maker loseth sweetness.
Ice-cream is under price-control in
some States, the idea being that it ought
to be kept at a price which the people,
in the opinion of price authorities, can
afford to pay. The Federal Treasurer,
however, regards it as something in the
nature of a luxury, so he puts a 20 p.c.
sales-tax on it.
Twitted about this, the Treasurer is
reported to have said that ice-cream-
makers use a lot of butter-fat, the
country’s butter-production is down, the
tax is aimed to make more butter-fat
available for butter.
Margarine is a very good substitute for
butter, especially in home-cooking, and
many thousands of overseas people eat
it as we eat butter.
But there is a very strict limitation on
the making of margarine in this country
on the ground that increased margarine-
production would harm the dairying
industry.
So States limit ice-cream prices, but
the Commonwealth bumps them up 20
p.c. because ice-cream-makers use too
much butter-fat, and nobody is allowed
to make margarine to replace the butter
which isn’t there, and—anyway, let’s all
have a milk-shake and start again.
Deadlock in Britain
From London; Britain’s main internal
trouble is the engineers’ ban on over-
time and piece-work, which followed the
demand for a further £2 per week, later
reduced to a more reasonable figure.
Here the Government, vice the Minister
of Labor, has been conspicuously suc-
cessful, if only to the extent of warding
off a Communist-provoked industrial
disaster.
The extremists are none too sure of
themselves, since the lower-priced workers
have most to lose by the ban, while the
employers’ federation is resolute m its
negatives, having made one concession
on i v __to accept the decision of an arbitra-
tion tribunal. At workshop level the
extremists have had no difficulty m per-
suading the men that the tribunal s find-
ings might not please them.
So there is deadlock. The processes oi
both collective bargaining and arbitration
having broken down, a court of inquiry
seems the one compromise left
situation is delicate, with Britain s vital
rearmament and export programme
(i Continued on next page )


caught between a determined body of
wreckers and a seemingly uncompromis-
ing federation of employers, with the
workers, as usual, in the role of stooges.
It may still be possible to avert the
calamitous effect of a drop in produc-
tion, as three weeks’ notice has been
given, thereby suggesting reluctance on
the part of the men to take precipitate
action. But any success achieved will
be substantially due to the good offices
of the Minister of Labor, who through-
out has acted with tact, understanding
and impartiality.
Not bad for a Tory Government sup-
posed by the workers’ champions to be
either incompetent or under the thumb
of big business.
POLITICAL POINTS
Saturday’s by-election in Flinders will
be a close fight; voting will reveal to what
extent “Labor’s” depression-propaganda
has succeeded in misleading public judg-
ment. If logic were the sole determinant
in elections the Opposition case, as
presented by Evatt and amplified by
Calwell and others, would not be causing
the Government much worry. As the
Prime Minister pointed out at Mordialloc
(Vic.) the Doc. is inveighing against the
Government for high taxation, yet at the
same time he is advocating a policy which
would call for an expenditure of another
£l5O to £2OO million. The two things
just won’t fit.
Leaving logic out of it, the real question
is whether since the hysteria of a couple
of months ago the Government has. won
back enough lost ground to retain the
seat.
* |T
Sir Douglas Copland, who seems unable
to decide whether economics or diplo-
macy is the sphere for which nature in-
tended him, is off to Canada next year
to succeed F. M. Forde as High Commis-
sioner. There’s a rumor that Frankie
has called for a report on living con-
ditions in Dublin.
• •
Another step in the Cahill Govern-
ment’s retreat from Socialism; Chief
Secretary Kelly is advocating the leasing
of Jenolan Caves House to private enter-
prise. Blacktown Tileworks, Hotel Kos-
ciusko, the Chalet, Jenolan . . . Next
thing we’ll be hearing that the Trades
Hall has been leased as a chain-store
or picture-theatre.
• ®
Fun and games are still in full swing
m Victorian politics. Latest move is
Labor’s” threat to block Supply and thus
force an election: the plan is to enlist
the Hollway group’s help to defeat the
Supply Bill when it reaches the Legis-
lative Council. Cain’s men hope that
this will mean a Hollway caretaker Gov-
ernment, a redistribution bill acceptable
to Labor” and an election on new boun-
daries. It seems rather a gamble.
McDonald’s obvious reply to a defeat in
trie Upper House is to ask the Governor
tor a dissolution, with every chance of
getting it. The election would then be
held on present boundaries.
If “Labor” succeeds in blocking Supply
it will be a case of history repeating
itself m reverse: Cain’s “Labor” Govern-
ment was forced out of office in 1947
by similar tactics in the Council.
• •
Since the August basic-wage increase
confounded all the prophets, most people
nave become cautious on the subject and
there has not been the usual amount of
speculation about the November adjust-
ment, due to be announced any day now.
But caution is a thing that has never
troubled Arthur Calwell, so last Friday
he chanced his arm in Flinders with a
prediction of a rise of 10s. or 12s. He
could scarcely contain his joy at the
thought of the embarrassment such a
figure would cause the Government, and
he hinted that the announcement might
be deliberately withheld until after the
by-election.
A further Calwellian prophecy; If
Labor” wins Flinders the Government
will dissolve within a few months ; if
the seat stays with the Libs interest-rates
will rise, and unemployment, too. The
idea of linking the rise and fall of the
interest-rate with the voting in a by-
election is a novel one even for an
economist of the Evatt-Calwell school;
the unemployment dirge obviously came
from the roneoed portion of his speech.
• •
The Government is doing its best to
close the Federal session before the end
of the month and the departure of
Messrs. Menzies and McEwen for
London. But it looks as if this won’t be
possible; bills are taking longer to draft
than expected.
• •
Under the comment “Somebody’s being
milked!” it was here calculated (B.
8/10./’52) that the N. S. Wales Milk
Board’s handling costs on milk worked
out last year at 4.4 d. a gallon. The sec-
retary of the .Milk Board, quite rightly
pointing out that “this does not present
the position in its true light,” explains
that the board
paid the country factories which handle
milk on its behalf the sum of £548,119,
and for rail-freight the sum of £469,196.
From these figures you will see‘ that the
amount which the board retained for
administration totalled only £110,367, which
works out at approximately ,43d. a gallon.
Somebody’s still being milked, but it
seems that udder hands than the Milk
Board’s are at work.
• •
Among the guests of honor at a
gathering of the League of Ancient
Mariners on Friday night was that well-
salted, wind-bitten old sea-dog, James
McGrrrrr.
® •
Davis Hughes, the C.P. member for
Armidale, threw a few figures at N.S.W.
Housing Minister Clive Evatt the other
day, after saying Clive’s figures were mis-
leading. Said Hughes: Figures supplied
by a Government statistician showed that
total houses completed by all State
Governments for three years to June,
1951, were 31,902, of which 10,506, or
32.7 per cent., were built in N.S.W. The
N.S.W. population was 39.7 per cent, of
Australia. Figures for all houses, over a
four-year period, showed the number of
houses per 10,000 of population as fol-
lows: Tas., 367 ; Q’land, 323 ; Vic., 281 ;
S. Aust., 263 ; W. Aust., 258 ; N.S.W.,
218. Hughes further said that of 17,000
houses built by Clive’s Housing Commis-
sion only 2000 were built outside the
Sydney-Newcastle-Wollongong areas.
• •
Queensland is to have a by-election
on October 25 —for the Keppel seat in
the Assembly. Argument on the Opposi-
tion candidate has been settled by an
agreement that both groups will support
the C.P. man, A. G. Ganter. Earlier
there had been talk of the Liberals
running a candidate unless the Country
party agreed on a joint candidate for
Nash at next year’s election —the Nash
C.P. branch having endorsed a candidate
in defiance of headquarters. C.P.-leader
Nickiin has agreed to support the joint
candidate in Nash. At the general elec-
tion in 1950 “Labor” won the Keppel seat
by 5251 votes to 4112.
o e
N.S.W. railways collected over £4-
million from road taxes in the five years
ended June 30 last. They got this for
nothing, did nothing for it. It is simply
a penal tax imposed on private road-
hauliers for daring to carry goods on the
public roads.
Victorian Railways Commissioner
Wishart, defending his State’s road-trans-
port-strangulation policy, said that dupli-
cation of transport on parallel routes
could not be afforded. True, nor can it
be afforded to ban the better transport in
order to maintain the slower and less-
efficient. If Australia had followed that
policy we would still be driving about in
horse-drawn carts.
• e
Hearing of evidence at the Victorian
royal commission into allegations that
bribes were offered to six members of
the Assembly will begin on October 27.
At the preliminary hearing last Thursday
five of the members concerned testified
that they had made sworn affidavits
alleging that offers had been made to
them. The sixth member involved, A. J.
Fraser, L.-C.P. member for Grant,
claimed Parliamentary privilege. He told
the commission that at the time he made
the affidavit he was under the impression
that he would be compelled to give
evidence and would have no option. He
had since found that he was under no
compulsion and he did not wish to appear
in a voluntary capacity. He was allowed
to stand down.
Affidavits by the following five mem-
bers were admitted: The Speaker, Sir
Archie Michaelis (S. Kilda), A. F. L.
Block (Ivanhoe), W. J. Mibus (Borung),
G. O. C. Reid (Box Hill) and R. K.
Whately (Camberwell). The Solicitor-
General told the commission he would
try to prove Mr. Fraser’s affidavit by
other means.
• •
Retrospective taxes are in principle
abhorrent, but in the cases quoted by
Treasurer Fadden it seems that some-
thing drastic is needed to stop the leak.
It is to be hoped, however, that the Gov-
ernment is first satisfying itself that no
other measures will achieve its purpose.
• •
Silliest strikes proposed for some time
are the stoppages threatened by N. S.
Wales tram and bus men as a protest
against staff reduction. The dismissals
are part of an economy drive forced upon
the transport system by heavy losses and
lack of loan funds. One certain effect
of a strike would be more loss of revenue.
What happens then? More sackings?
More strikes? More losses? More,.,.
• •
As a change from tales of staff-reduc-
tion comes news that the local Nuffield
workshops have just put on more than
200 additional men. Reason for the up-
lift is increased sales; reasons for the
increase—reduced prices and the Gov-
ernment’s relaxation of credit-controls.
• •
Rumor on the Molonglo is that Arthur
Fadden will retire from the Treasurer-
ship and the C.P. leadership before the
end of the year because of ill-health. The
Treasury seems easy to fill with men like
Mcßride in the Cabinet —or R. G. Casey,
who held the office in the Lyons Govern-
ment —but the C.P. has a tougher task
in agreeing on a leader. McEwen, who
seems the natural heir, is by no means
safe in his seat and there is little new
blood. There is some money on C. W.
Davidson, member for Dawson (Q.).
• •
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” says it is
“generally believed” that the Queensland
and British Governments are preparing
to get out of the farcical Peak Downs
sorghum-growing stunt and cut the land
up for leaseholds. Whatever the area of
the leases even the smallest leaseholder
would make more from his lease than the
two Governments from the whole area.
So far, after spending £l.B million, they’re
in the red for over £600,000.
• •
Sydney “Herald” announced the other
day that N.S.W. Minister for Mines
Arthur had “a plan” to stabilise the coal
industry. Does this mean that he intends
to reveal the whereabouts and doings of
Jack Baddeley, Director of State Coal-
mines?
• •
Whatever criticism may be hurled at
the import-restriction policy it is certainly
having the desired effect of stopping the
drain on London Ifiinds. For the three
months July-Septeniber Australia had a
favorable trade balance of £22.8 million,
compared with a deficit of £112.7 million
for the corresponding three months last
year.
• •
W. Straughan, manager of Atherton
(Q.) Maize Board, said it was cheaper to
land a cargo of Queensland maize in
Europe than in a southern Australian
port. “Shipping and freight costs are
far too high for us to send maize down
south.” “Down south” means south-east
Australia, and it’s but another example of
how we cut our own throats.
• •
N. S. Wales royal commission on
liquor is still trickling on, counsels’
addresses being part heard. No date has
been announced for Judge Maxwell’s
departure for foreign parts,
• •
Recent awards of heavy damages in
actions for negligence-—the highest
£40,000 in a case where the person injured
had claimed £ls,ooo—have raised the
question of whether it is right for a jury
to be called upon to fix the amount of
damages. Best suggestion comes from
the Liberal party’s conference—let the
jury decide the rights and wrongs of the
case and a judge or panel of judges
assess the damages.
• •
“As bad a case as has ever come be-
for the commission. It has no redeem-
ing features” was the comment of the
Full Bench of the N. S. Wales Industrial
Commission on a strike staged at Port
Kembla by the F.E.D.F.A. in protest
against the dismissal of a man who had
been convicted of stealing £4OO-worth of
steel. Lysaght’s, Ltd., applied to the com-
mission for the deregistration of the Coast
District section of the union. The ap-
plication was granted, but the order will
be held over for three weeks to give the
Federal and State councils of the union
an opportunity to give written under-
takings that the Coast District section
will refrain from taking part in illegal
stoppages.
• •
Crocodile-tears shed by Senator Ashley
over Glen Davis can’t wash out the
black-and-white facts given in the N. S.
Wales Auditor-General’s report. For the
last four years before the Receiver took
over, production fell steadily and working
losses rose. The figures:
Petrol
Produced Working
(gals.). Loss.
1947 .. ~ 4,063,628 £425,106
1948 .. .. 2,775,879 £492,045
1949 .. .. 2,758,179 £474,212
1950 .. ~ 2,344,740 £507,637
The actual loss per gallon of petrol pro-
duced was 2s. Id., 3s. 6d., 3s. 6d. and
4s. 4d. respectively for the four years.
And even in the peak year the annual
production wouldn’t have filled two
tankers,
• •
Persia has expelled an Australian who
has lived there for 28 years, during which
he built the biggest garage in the country.
In reporting this, A.B.C. remarked that
no reason had been given for his expul-
sion. No reason? Doesn’t the message
say the man built the biggest garage in
Persia? In the eyes of Dr. Moussadek
that is reason enough in itself.
• •
There’s a move to persuade Attlee to
stand down from the leadership of the
British Labor party in favor of Herbert
Morrison, presumably to toughen the
orthodox party against Left-winger Bevan.
Attlee is almost 70, so it is reasonable
to expect him to be thinking of putting
on his carpet-slippers before long. Still,
for a man whom the prophets have been
retiring every few weeks since he assumed
the Prime Ministership in 1945, he has
lasted remarkably welt
• •
Congressman Thomas Lane (U.S.
Democrat party) hopped into the U.S. pro-
posal to increase the present import-tax
on foreign wool from 27d. to 44d. a
pound—-which has excited Australian
wool interests and was put forward by
U.S. Agricultural Department as a means
of protecting U.S. woolgrowers. Lane
said it was obviously aimed at countries
which subsidised wool exports to the
U.S.A., and they, not all suppliers of
wool to the U.S.A., should be taxed.
• •
W. A. Chaffey (C.P., Tamworth) tried
to have a select committee appointed by
N.S.W, Parliament to inquire into the
delay in construction of Keepit Dam.
The Cahills outvoted him, probably
because some of them don’t know where
Keepit is—and don’t care.
• •
It is a business maxim that a satisfied
customer is the best publicity agent. An
illustration of how this principle applies
in relation to migration is given in the
current issue of the Immigration
Department’s publication “The Good
Neighbor.” In the last few years 2700
nominations of British families for
settlement in Queensland have been re-
ceived from families who have themselves
come to Australia since 1946. These
nominations represent nearly 10,000
people, or about half the total British
migration to Queensland since the war.
• •
Sydney businessmen were reported by
a morning paper as saying that abolition
of the N.S.W. Prices Branch would save
taxpayers more than £300,000 a year and
allow its 300 employees “to do produc-
tive work.” That’s provided their years
of unproductive work haven’t robbed
them of the ability to do so.


A DRINKING-SONG
“Staggered liquor-trading hours are suggested
by U.L.V.A.”
The New South Wales U.L.V.A. —
The Publicans’ Union, to you —
Grew weary as day after day
They staggered the boys with their
brew.
Oh, stagger me, stagger me, Bill,
Oh, stagger me, stagger me,
Charley !
My teeth are afloat in your swill;
I’m staggered by bubbles of barley.
For as Bung became rich and a gent.
He longed for more literate glories.
So down to the court-house he went
To stagger the boys with his stories.
Oh, stagger me, stagger me, Fred ,
Oh, stagger me, stagger me, Rollo !
I’m staggered by all you have said.
But I find it too staggering to
follow.
Then Bung took the pose of a monk
Disgusted at wasting his powers
On the throats and the ears of the drunk,
And decided to stagger the hours.
Oh, stagger me, stagger me, Sam!
I’ve been staggered by staggering
biology.
But not half so much as I am
When I’m staggered by staggering
horology.
Time’s glass has turned into a bottle,
And if you ask, “Who are you,
brother ?”
He answers while wetting his throttle,
“I’m Time-That-We-All-Had-Another !”
Oh, stagger me, Jessie and Grace ;
My wife may turn into a nagger
If there’s always a time and a place
Where habitual staggerers can
stagger.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
♦♦♦ ❖
“Nakhoda”: Our Indonesian friends
have picked up the idea all right, even
if they haven’t learnt our diplomatic
phraseology. Recent statements of the
Embassy of Indonesia Information Ser-
vice passed on to the Press have been
labelled “handout.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Bo”: In claims for damages resulting
from car accidents a new feature has
become common in the last couple of
years—the plea of changed personality.
A word-picture is skilfully drawn by
plaintiff’s counsel of a man or woman
once gay, happy and carefree, now a
warped hypochondriac. Probably it is
no more than the truth ; anyway, he gets
a verdict for thumping damages. But
presumably it is possible for an accident
to alter a victim’s personality in other
than just the same way every time. Who
knows, then, but what a husband of some
future accident-victim, on the plea that
u er personality has as a result undergone
“If you think he's Worth it, Doctor, could you give me a quote
for a complete remodel?"
a complete change, may not have to
fork out a handsome wad as a corollary
to having a waspish, nagging virago
changed into a sunny-tempered, rational
and lovable woman?
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Tom Trout” (London): Recently I
encountered a French lass named
Matilda. Although her father is stated
to be A. B. Paterson and her mother
M. Cowan, this “perfumed willy-willy”
of the Paris cabarets seems hardly of
the same family as the serviceable girl
who witnessed the tragic end of her boss
under that coolibah-tree. Her story is
recorded by Yves Montand, the Rolls-
Roycing Communist-cum-cabaret-singer
who adores the songs of the working-
classes. Interested in the effects of our
indigenous culture on the Paris boites, I
mustered my schoolboy French to a trans-
lation of the sad history. After a
nostalgic soliloquy about the' breezes of
the past, waltzes of memory and melodies
of forgotten desires, M. Montand, re-
calling: “Quand vous dansiez, Matilda,
pour moi,” implores the lady;
Waltz Matilda! Waltz Matilda!
Charming ghost of my flower-scented days.
Waltzing you were so pretty,
When you danced, Matilda, for me!
Then, with a plaint that he was jilted
with a smile, he cries that tonight he has
found again the road of the hopes that
have winged away ; and so to the final,
sad apostrophe;
Where are you, Matilda? Where are you,
Matilda?
Where do you dance, Matilda, without me?
So pretty you were . . .
Alas, that you will never return to me!
When you danced, Matilda, for me!
If anyone finds a bluey doing a pas seul
down some dusty bushtrack, let me
know.
* *X* *X*
“Croid”: When I was quite a small
boy I was told the story of the old lady
who reported to the police that from
her veranda she could see nude men
swimming in the near-by river. They
were made to move further away, but
she complained that she could still see
them —through her binoculars. That old
lady must be one of the most-travelled
women in history. I have heard the yarn
connected with nearly every swimming-
pool, river and beach in Australia. She
has evidently migrated to the United
States, as the tale is featured in the current
“Reader’s Digest.” It says much for the
remarkable eyesight of one who was over
70 when I first heard of her 50 years ago.
♦+♦ *X*
“Becks”: From England comes the
report of a deaf juror who wandered
on to the wrong jury and subsequently
invalidated its proceedings, the court
holding that a jury should consist of a
round dozen, not a baker’s dozen. On
a retrial being ordered the police with-
drew their charge for some reason or
other and the accused went scot-free,
proving to the satisfaction of all good
superstitionists that 13 is a lucky number.
Earlier proof of this interesting fact can
be adduced in the reasonably well-
authenticated story of the time when the
clock in St. Paul’s struck 13 and saved
a man’s life. When John Hatfield died
in London in 1770, it was reported in the
“Public Advertiser” that when he was a
young soldier in the reign of William
and Mary, he was sentenced to death
for falling asleep while on guard at
Windsor. He stoutly denied the offence
and, as a proof of his wideawakeness,
declared that he had heard St. Paul’s
clock strike 13. The court scoffed at
his story, but while he lay under sentence
of death several persons swore affidavits
that they, too, had heard the one over
“Whacko!"
the dozen. Hatfield received the Royal
pardon, lived to be 102, and, as far as
can be ascertained, never again heard a
clock say a word out of turn.
♦♦♦ ++♦ *t*
“Brick E.”: Latest feminine hobby
around our way is wickerwork. But it’s
not a 100 per cent, feminine show; the
bases for shopping-baskets or ornamental
trays are cut from wood or wood-fibre
compositions—and that’s where Dad is
dragged in. I was commissioned to pro-
vide the foundation for “an oval tray.”
Recalling my tech, days, I set out foci
points and drew a true ellipse. It wasn’t
right. Something “more like this” was
required. “This” was an oblong with a
semicircle both ends —at least, 1 thought
it was until the figure was drawn. “No ;
not like that exactly ; it seems to be too
roundish,” was the verdict. Remember-
ing my arch-work, I set out a short per-
pendicular, recalled the formula: “Half
the span squared plus the rise squared
divided by twice the rise,” and, with the
answer as radius, drew the curves. “Hmm,
that’s better, but—tell you what, I’ll get
Mrs. Nextdoor’s as a pattern.” The
pattern, with its owner, turned up. “What
radius is that?” I asked, beholding the
ideal. “Gosh, don’t ask me!” gasped
the expert. “I just ran a pencil round a
saucepan-lid.” *
❖ ❖
“F.S.”: An exhibition of Indian art is
on its way here and will be shown in
Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide. It in-
cludes 100 colored reproductions of
earlier schools of painting, 140 photo-
graphic enlargements of Indian archi-
tecture and sculpture and a collection of
modern paintings from all parts of Nehru’s
country. It will be interesting to see the
reproductions of Indian sculpture, which
was strongly influenced by the Greeks after
Alexander’s conquests, but I’ll be sur-
prised if the modern Indian paintings
aren’t as like our Australian “moderns”
as one pea is like another.
*X* *X* *>
“Helldud”: Chop picnics (B. 24/9/’52)?
In the long ago, on winter Sundays, a
mob of us used to row from the Spit
to the mud-flat, above where the Rose-
ville bridge now is, there to eat grilled
chops, spuds and peas, sink much beer
and play hockey with bush-cut sticks.
But no matter how early we reached the
flat (beautifully level, hard and an excel-
lent cricket-pitch) we would find a young
bloke in possession—practising bowling
at a single stump, with a pal to keep
wicket. Any improvement he may nave
made was none of our fault; our wildly-
swung bush-sticks and wild rushes across,
over and around his pitch invariably
crowded him off the landscape. But
never for long. The moment we let up
to bind a split skull or to slake our
thirst—in those days almost unquench-
able—he would dart from the mangroves,
bump in his stump and resume his
leg, off and swerve practice. I’ve often
wondered since what Charlie Macartney
really thought of us.
“5 G.R.”: As a musketry-officer in the
First A.I.F. and the Indian Army I have
probably fired a million rounds of S.A.A.,
and cannot recall a misfire, but in a minor
war in Irak, Gurkha subedar Kabir Thapa
was conducting a hard-pressed rearguard
and had three men wounded. Determined
not to let one item of equipment fall
into enemy hands, nor a prisoner, Kabir
saw the casualties safely to the rear, then,
loaded with their equipment and the
enemy closing in, his troubles began. One
felt hat kept dropping to the ground.
Three times Kabir raced back to collect
that hat. Three times a daring Arab
knelt at 30yds. and took deliberate aim.
Three times his rifle misfired. It was
fortunate that the rifles of the enemy
were British gifts to the Soviet, and the
chances are the bolts were not the right
ones. However, when Kabir was in a
position to draw kukris, the enemy
cleared out. The subedar received a
decoration.
*t* ❖ ❖
“Herbert Dawson”: Don’t know about
long names for lakes and the like (B.
24/9/’52), but years ago there was a
nag racing down south that bore the
impressive monicker Gogiddigangiddi-
gargadiluyah. The bookies shortened it
to “Gogiddigan,” the racing public to
“Gogiddy”; disillusioned backers to
“Goat.”
OLD TUNISIAN
The old Tunisian I saw at the local
cinema —
bearded, turbanned, cross-legged in the
market
handling his woven ware, he made me
think :
age begins levelling long before death’s
grader.
Levelling race and color (how akin
all nonagenarians look); levelling caste
and creed
(they lose the cruel fire of enthusiasm ) ;
levelling bumps between childhood and
senescence.
Grandfathers wreathed in beards like
snowy mountains,
frost-bunned women with brown hands
and walnut faces:
crude or foolish or wise or sorrowful
their eyes are roads that have traversed
the wilderness.
N.Z..
GLORIA RAWLINSON.


“Ymar”: Old Cap’n Kay, when first
introduced to the convenience of the
long-distance telephone, admiringly com-
mented; “Straight out of your gob into
their lug!”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Tidak Makan”: “Ah Pooh” (B.
10/9/’52) is a bit astray in his belief that
rice-eaters consume rice more from neces-
sity than choice. In 1943 the rice ration
for civilians in the Sandakan area was a
little over a pound a month. In the
p.-0.-w. camp we were getting about
14oz. a day, and when out on timber-
felling working-parties we found we could
always exchange our midday ration of
boiled rice for fried fish, sweet-potato,
corn, bananas, pineapple or tapioca root.
This provided a wonderful feed for us in
exchange for a meagre quantity of rice,
which the Chinese always seemed eager
to get. At Kuching, when the war ended,
the R.A.A.F. dropped supplies that
included condensed-milk, oatmeal, sugar,
egg-powder, etc. When the children in
the internment camp down the road from
us were fed with these delicacies, did they
lap them up? No, they howled for their
accustomed rice !
+♦♦ »
_ “Doric”: On a European tour we
visited the field of Waterloo, and, after
inspecting the Lion Mound which com-
memorates the victory, wandered among
the sideshows” which an enterprising
people have accumulated there. One
was a theatrette with a continuous screen-
ing of a film of the battle. Believe me,
please; with my own ears I heard a
woman ask the guide if the film was really
a contemporary record of the battle!
❖ * ***
“Taffy”: Of all the torments which
the city-dweller has to endure the most
persistently unpleasant is noise, and
the mas ter-torturer is the blaring radio.
The fault may sometimes be laid at the
door of the owner, but it is the result
mainly of a total lack of balance in
intensity of sound in each separate item in
a programme; the worst offenders in
this respect are the disk-jockeys who
control signature-tunes and incidental
noises. Thus the almost-inaudible actress
who persists in remaining just above the
10-decibel level is sandwiched in between
ear-shattering bursts of noise (wrongfully
described as “incidental” music), 100
decibels above the tolerable limit.
Against such sudden changes refinements,
such as automatic-volume-control, are
completely ineffective, and the listener is
reduced to grasping nervously the volume-
knob. With practice he can anticipate
all the overwhelming crescendos and
diminuendos, but the constant state of
alertness makes real enjoyment impos-
sible. In the case of two fat least) of our
commercial comedians the listener can
relax, as they—names suppressed—have
such powerful voices that they out-decibel
their orchestras, which is no mean feat,
and thus the volume-knob can be left
permanently turned low. (If you want to
learn what decibels are, ask the A.B.C. It
may know.)
♦♦♦
“B. A. Ker”: Youngsters of my day
wore hats as naturally as they didn’t wear
boots. Today the order is inverted; all
boys wear shoes, but nothing excites such
acts of fiendish schoolboyism as the sight
of a companion wearing headgear. The
offending apparel is immediately seized,
flung over a fence, chucked up on a roof
or jammed down the scruff of the non-
conformist’s neck. Last week my job
took me to a primary school, and, remem-
bering the hat-pegs of my youth, I took a
peek into the annexes during class. There
were a few of the old-style schoolbags
hanging on the hooks, more cases, several
satchels that had once held Army gas-
masks and one solitary deerstalker cap.
Yet two small rooms on the plan of our
new job bear the laconic anachronism
“Hats.”
❖ ❖ *X*
“Tandan”: Surely “F.G.S.” is worry-
ing himself over nothing. Landsmen like
to be able to describe all sorts of vessels
under an easily-remembered name, such
as lugger (B. 17/9/’52). All overseas
passenger ships thus become “mail-boats,”
most cargo-ships “tramps.” Another
example is the mosquito-fleet that runs
out of Port Adelaide to coastal ports and
the Speck. Three or four rigs are repre-
sented in the fleet, but as far as Scuthoss
landsmen are concerned every vessel is a
ketch.
❖ ❖ v
“Teeperce”: Virtue, as its own reward,
is all too often not supplemented by added
kudos. During the evacuation in Greece
I remember a platoon loot who, cut off
from anyone to whom he could depute
the job, laboriously humped the platoon’s
anti-tank rifle, an accountable store
chargeable to him and weighing 361 b.
On the beach he found another one
abandoned by some less conscientious
Digger and added it to his burden. Even-
tually a motley group of men from a
diversity of units got off on the Dutch
freighter Costa Rica, which attracted
egg-laying Stukas whose efforts sprung
her plates, leading to an order to tranship
to a destroyer. Nets to act as rope-ladders
were strung over the side of the R.N. ship,
and the weapon-carrying look who had
been out on his feet from sheer exhaus-
tion on the Costa Rica, struggled man-
"She bores me stiff — hasn't a clue about aerodynamics."
fully up the difficult ascent, still carrying
the two a.-t. rifles. On his making the
destroyer deck he was stopped by a naval
lieutenant, who asked hadn’t he heard the
order that all arms had to be jettisoned.
“Gripes!” said the loaded one. “I’ve
humped these for thirty miles. Don’t
make me ditch ’em now.” Calmly and
courteously the R.N. man dropped the
weapons into the drink.
❖ <+ ♦♦♦
“Ex-G.P.0.”: The Old Man insisted
upon being last up the rope gangway to
“Sorry I can't stay, John. I've just come to collect my
appearance money.”
the deck of Glengyle, which took us out
of Crete. We were all out to it, but he
was about finished. He had had the re-
sponsibility for a couple of thousand men
in that tragic arid unnecessary show and
had also, despite his years, to walk across
the island. As he struggled up to the
deck a typical fat R.N. bosun put his
arms under the old man’s armpits and
heaved him up, at the same time saying
with all the compassion in the world,
“You’re all right, son. Go straight ahead
and get some cocoa.” Then, recognising
under the shaded light the badges of a
lieut.-colonel, without a pause he went
on, “Yes, sir, down the alleyway and
the first turn to the right is the ward-
room.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Swelpme”: Man may think he under-
stands the female of the species, but he’ll
never follow her logic when it comes to
art or beauty. My spouse has the tidiest
mind this side of the Black Stump ; to
tie her to a chair and comnel her to
watch an overturned vase pour its con-
tents on a table would be to inflict a
greater mental torture than Asia ever
devised. Yet she was recently presented
with a painting that depicts a flower-vase
doing just that—and it has been proudly
exhibited to every feminine visitor with-
out meeting one dissenting voice. Cogitat-
ing over the matter in the train I noticed
a young lass sporting a gold-colored
metal spider clinging to her dress in a
hideously lifelike attitude. The youth
with her, trying to be funny, exclaimed:
“Look, Shirl, there’s a dirty big spider
on you! ” Something close to terror
swept across the girl’s face; she doubled
up, sweeping blindly, frenziedly at her
bosom. When the joke came to her she
was wrathfully indignant: “That was a
stupid thing to say, anyhow. You know
I hate spiders. I’d die if one got on me! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wai-Weer”: Touching those sub-
marines off the New Guinea coast, “Mac-
nell” (B. 17/9/’52) rightly cites the law
regarding the three-mile limit. When I
was in the Torres Strait, though, the ques-
tion that seemed to puzzle the experts
was just how those waters could be
defined, as Queensland territorial boun-
daries take in the numerous islands, sand-
banks, reefs and so on between Cape
York and New Guinea right up to prac-
tically the N.G. shore at one spot. The
Japs used to maintain that the three-mile
limit might operate so far as the mainland
was concerned, but that it did not apply in
the Strait out amongst the islands nor
along the Great Barrier, hence the raid-
ing visits of sampan poaching-outfits. As
a coast-watcher (honorary job) it came
within my province to push in a wad
of information concerning the presence
of strange submarines in the Strait in
1932; these were reported in careful and
accurate detail by native informants,
who were highly commended by the
Naval authorities for their keenness. The
craft were considered to be without doubt
Japanese. The authorities didn’t seem
anxious to carry investigations further;
even if they had, no doubt the three-
mile-limit problem would have been the
snag.
❖ ❖ *
“Assistant-reader”: “Proof-reader” (B.
8/10/’52) maintains that words mis-
pronounced or misread become, in time,
accepted as correct. Among examples of
mispronunciation he cites “disillusioned”
as being pronounced “disillusionised.” If
he looks up his Webster he will find that
“disillusionised” has already arrived.
♦J+ +> $
“Lansdowne”; Another must now be
added to the list of rough, dangerous
games. A youngster of 11 years is
a patient of the Mooroopna hospital
(Vic.) as a result of injuries received
while playing marbles. He -fell forward,
struck his face on the roadway and frac-
tured his jaw in two places.
❖ ❖ +*♦
“8.J.L.”: Having put a sleeve inside a
badly-gashed tyre, I asked the new hand
to watch how the tyre reacted as I drove
slowly forward with it replaced on the
wheel of. a loaded truck. As he trotted
beside the vehicle I was intrigued and
puzzled to see his body curve further and
further forward until he overbalanced
and turned a half-somersault, landing on
the nape of his neck. Unconsciously he
had followed the wheel around with his
whole body instead of his eyes only.
THE HORSE LAUGH
“The really vital thing for your attention is;
Does the horse’s-tail hairdo suit your per-
sonality?”—Women’s paper.
What odds if the kids have the measles,
If your neighbor delights to torment ;
Or the dress that you’re sewing
Goes wrong, or you’re owing
Your landlord a packet for rent;
If your “spare tyre” is getting much
larger —
Such things are mere trifles beside
This question your passion
For up-to-date fashion
In hair-dos must bid you decide:
Would the horse’s-tail style, with your
figure
As well as your face and your walk,
Make you look somewhat barmy,
P’rhaps down-on-the-farmy,
Or something a hunter would stalk ?
Or might the thing, while from your
noddle
It billows behind in the breeze,
Prove rather bewitching ?
If worn, though, no twitching
To brush off the flies, if you please !
To wear one you should be a chestnut,
A brindle, or even a roan;
It’s a grape to a guinea
To let out a whinny
You may be at times rather prone.
And this fact you’ll face; at the theatre
The stall is your obvious place.
Every time, after homing,
You’ll need curry combing.
And, sister, will you go the pace!
But don’t go out, dear, without blinkers,.
Or you’ll never look quite complete.
Whether fifty or twenty,
Of chaff you’ll get plenty,
But don’t let that spell your defeat.
Wear your horse-tail, held tight in a
crupper /
If an old nag, and far from a beaut.,
It’s odds you’ll look silly ;
But if you’re a filly
It MAY make you look rather cute.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


♦
Sure Starts
Hxiht
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
EX1.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Arthur Edward Leighton has been
mixed up officially in gunpowder-plots
since 1903, when he began reorganising
munition-supply in India for Kitchener.
In 1921, long before Hitler became a
worry, five men sat round a table in
Melbourne to establish the Munitions
Supply Board, of which Leighton became
head. In 1939 the same five gathered
again, their aim the production of ammo,
from .45 cartridges to Sin. shells —target.
Hitler. Throughout the war Leighton
served as consultant to the Ministry of
Munitions. A pleasant, cultivated chap
well-known at the Royal Melbourne Golf
Club and the Naval and Military, he was
elected the other day to the presidency
of the Royal Australian Chemical Insti-
tute.
“J.”: The old axiom “Once a destroyer-
man always a destroyerman” has its ex-
ceptions. Peter William Gretton, D.S.O.
(thrice), 0.8. E,, D.S.C., that “Ace of the
Atlantic” of the convoy-article in B.
8/10/’52, has just been appointed to
command H.M.S. Gambia. His new
address does carry depth-charges—she
also rates 8000 tons and 12 six-inch guns
in triple turrets.
NORMAN JAMESON
well-known in Brisbane’s business as
the senior partner of Troup,
Harwood and Co., accountants.
Labor’s hope in the coming Federal
shindy for the Werriwa seat (held for
over 30 years by H. P. Lazzarini till his
death), E. G. Whitlam is a Sydney
solicitor. If he wins, it will probably be
a long time before he gets as much Press
publicity as he’s had in recent weeks —
son-in-law of Dovey, Q.C., Whitlam
appeared as his junior counsel before
the Liquor Commission.
Judged by last year’s attendance of
adults, and the ecstatic gyrations of small
boys when a plane burst into fire or a
submarine burst from the depths of the
graving-dock, the Navy’s Trafalgar Day
shivoo at Garden Island ranks among
Sydney’s best entertainment. Up to his
brass-hat in preparation for this year’s
operation, Captain George Carmichael
Oldham, captain of the dockyard, knows
a thing or two of organising—through-
out the late war he served as Staff Officer
Operations in every cruiser, bar Sydney,
in the Australian squadron. Second-
dicky in Shropshire at the Leyte business,
where he won his D.S.C., after the war
he had command of the then-new
destroyer Warramunga. Oldham’s present
operation opens next Saturday afternoon.
It’s free for all.
“Ek D.”: “B.” was wrong (B. 8/10/’52)
when he described Prince lyemasa Toku-
gawa (who opened George Finey’s ex-
hibition in Tokyo) as “brother of the
Emperor.” The Prince is the eldest son
of Prince lyesato Tokugawa, president of
the House of Peers (1903-33) and Japan’s
delegate to the Washington Disarmament
Conference and heir of the last of the
Shoguns. Prince lyemasa was here as
Consul-General in Australasia, 1925-29,
Minister to Canada and Ambassador to
Turkey and a member of the suite of
the Duke of Gloucester when he visited
Japan on the Garter Mission in 1929. He
has maintained his interest in Australia
and has always worked for Anglo-
Japanese accord. He is president of the
Japan-Australia Society, recently re-
vived, And, incidentally, he wrote last
week to praise Finey’s paintings.
The Historical Memorials Committee,
Canberra, has accepted the four portraits
it commissioned three artists to paint
for the records: Governor-General
McKell (Joshua Smith), Senate president
Mattner and Speaker Cameron (Ivor
Hele), and Sir John Latham (William
Dargie).
J. D. Jacobs takes close on 30 years’
know-how of the petroleum industry with
him into the managing-directorship of
Vacuum Oil. Born in that oil-sump,
Pennsylvania, he got his early education
at the Annapolis Naval Academy, was
afloat with Uncle Sam’s Navy in War I,
and after it commanded submarines. Oil
became his interest in 1924, since when
he has garnered experience in various
parts of the world, ending as chief of
Atlantic Union in Australia. In War 11,
colonel in the U.S. Army, he had much to
do with supply of the astronomical
gallonage of petroleum products used by
the Allied forces in the Pacific.
Captain George Edward Cove, well-
known in Australian shipping, has
swallowed the First salting
1905, first command the old Britannic, he
relieved the genial Bissett on the Queen
Mary’s bridge in 1948, later had the
Queen Elizabeth, and in 1950 succeeded
Bissett in a commodoreship of the Cunard
Line. Like Bissett, Cove is a cheery cove
with a cargo of anecdotes and a salty air
of telling ’em ; and, like most of his Line’s
commodores, he reefed sails before join-
ing a steamship. Launched Devon, 1889.
Herman Otten, a German doctor of
engineering who landed in Perth the other
day to settle as a diesel-engine expert,
between the wars ran two factories pro-
ducing diesel-engines—one in Hamburg,
the other in Cologne. 1 During Hitler’s
war he was commandeered by the Nazis
and set to training U-boat crews in diesel-
and torpedo-maintenance, at one stage
supervising the training of more than
17,000 seamen. He was also attached to
the Krupp works in Essen a«d to diesel
works in Kiel. While on this business his
own two factories were blitzed to rubble.
He brings with him the agency for Ger-
man diesel-tractors, which he hopes to
sell and service in this country.
Argentinian conductor Juan Jose Castro
has closed his first account with Mel-
bourne well on the credit side and is now
touring New Zealand, with seasons in
Yugoslavia and (Croatia to follow. But a
contract with the A.B.C. will bring him
back in April for the 1953 concert-season.
An honorary D.Sc. has been conferred
by the New Zealand University Senate
on E. Bruce Levy, formerly Director of
Grasslands of the Department of Scien-
tific and Industrial Research. He
developed a strain to which almost the
whole of N.Z. certified seed owes its
origin, as well as methods of regrassing
and controlling secondary growth on hill
country. Erosion, pasturage that elimin-
ated unpleasant qualities in milk and the
curing of facial eczema in sheep are
other lines on which Levy has done much
for Fernland agriculturists. Last year he
collected the R. B. Bennett Empire Prize,
awarded by the Royal Society of Arts for
his outstanding agricultural contributions.
An interesting centenary was celebrated
on October 1 in Melbourne. On that
date in 1852 Henry Miller, M.L.C., was
elected a first director of the Bank of
Victoria. The year after Henry Miller’s
death in 1888 his son, Edward Miller, suc-
ceeded him. When the Victorian bank
amalgamated with the Commercial Bank
of Sydney in 1927, Edward, then a knight,
was still a member of the board. Lionel
F. Miller, a grandson of the first chair-
man, is chairman of the board of manage-
ment for Victoria. His great-grandfather,
Captain Miller, fought at Waterloo and
was afterwards posted with his regiment
to Sydney. He was one of the early
administrators of Brisbane, and was later
stationed at Hobart, from where his son
Henry went to Melbourne to found the
banking dynasty.
Sir Macfarlane Burnet, arch-enemy
of wogs, landed in the U.S. on Sunday—
a few days after landing one of the
highest American medical awards. One
of the six Lasker awards for 1952 of the
American Health Association, it carries
1000 dollars in cash, a gold statuette of
the “Victory of Samothrace,” and inter-
national recognition of the recipient’s fight
against disease. Burnet’s main targets
have been the viruses of polio and influ-
enza.
Winner of the Sulman Medal for 1939
(Manly surf-pavilion the job), Eric
Andrew takes on the presidency of the
N.S.W. Chapter of the Royal Australian
Institute of Architects. An athletic blue
of Sydney University, he took off for
London in 1930, had six years eyeing
architecture on the Continent and in the
U.S., and after that reckoned he knew
enough to set up his own practice back
in Sydney. He’d settled down when
called upon to take on a more austere
practice—gunner, A.I.F. Transferring to
the Engineers, he was put in charge of
a large aerodrome in Kedah (Malaya),
and escaped the debacle to be put to work
siting aerodromes round Townsville.
Later, he had charge of all defence-works
from Charters Towers to the N.S.W.
border. He is partnered by his wife in
his present practice in Sydney.
The first act of public service of
Councillor Brens when he became Lud
Mayor of Melbourne was to make a
determined effort to acquire the 1000
acres of Glenara, late rosarian Alistair
Clark’s place at Bulla, for the people.
The price was £75,000, but the City
Council was told it could have it for
£40,000, the offer holding good for
24 hours. The money wasn’t immediately
forthcoming, so Lud Mayor Brens invited
40 businessmen to lend him a thousand
MELBOURNE’S LUD MAYOR
pounds apiece; he would buy the place
and recoup his creditors if and when his
council voted the money. He had 15
offers before breakfast on the day follow-
ing his announcement, but there was some
misunderstanding over the time-limit —the
clock struck 12 just as Brens looked like
romping home to a photo-finish.
John Frederick Rossiter, the Liberals’
man for the Flinders by-election on Satur-
day, looks like a fighter, and is. He
gained his boxing-blue at Melbourne Uni-
versity while studying for his B.A. degree,
and was runner-up in the heavyweight
boxing championship on one occasion.
Professionally, he exercises his square jaw
lecturing in English at Melbourne Tech.,
and his punches in Flinders have been
pointed with apt literary allusions.
Thirty-eight, he was in the A.I.F. for
five years, mainly round New Guinea,
FOR FLINDERS
where he rose from private to captain.
One-time editor of “The Acorn,” the
R.S.L. public-service journal, he’s having
his third run in the Parliamentary stakes.
Since H. P. Lazzarini passed on there
are only three members of the
House of Reps, who can remember
that august body when W. M. Hughes
was P.M. —Hughes himself, Doc Page
and Jos Francis (1922). Politics is a
hard game, and there are only 10 mem-
bers who have been in the House more
than 20 years —Hughes, Page, Francis,
Bernie Corser and Rowley James (1928),
Phil Mcßride, Eric Harrison, Sol Rose-
vear, Eddie Ward, George Lawson (1931).
Indeed, there are only 16 who date back
to 1934, the remainder of the galaxy of
that year’s vintage being Menzies, Archie
Cameron, John McEwen, Clark, Drake-
ford and Mulcahy.
Landed in Melbourne from the U.S.,
James A. Linden is president of a school
which, though it can claim only 60-odd
years of age, has had enrolled in that
time close on 6,000,000 students. Inter-
national Correspondence Schools World,
Ltd., is the institution. Linden’s son is
the publisher of “Time” magazine.
Into the Silence;
In Perth, at 93, William Fairweather, former
president and foundation member of the Wes-
tralian Master Builders’ Association. Leaving
Scotland for Queensland in 1882 he moved
over to Perth 10 years later. In his 60 years’
connection with the building industry he left
many monuments in city and country, among
them the R.C. Archbishop’s Palace, the North
Perth Monastery, the Victoria Assurance
building in Perth and the Muresk Agricultural
College.
In Melbourne, Henry St. John Somerset, a
pioneer metallurgist and paper-maker who
helped develop the methods of recovery of
gold and copper at Mount Morgan and Cobar,
became plant-superintendent of Broken Hill
Associated Smelters at Port Pirie and from
1945 to 1947 was managing-director of Electro-
lytic Zinc. He was likewise a director of
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills and other
companies at Burnie from their beginnings.
In New York, at 71, Austin Strong, grand-
stepson of R. L. Stevenson, As a child he lived
with Stevenson on Samoa, and after the author’s
death had four years at Wellington College
(N.Z.). After a shot at landscape-gardening in
Los Angeles (he also laid out Auckland’s Corn-
wall Park), Strong switched to playwriting, and
with his uncle, Lloyd Osborne, put on “The
Man of Destiny” in London. It fared badly,
but his own production, “Three Wise Fools,”
did well in New York and London.
In the Royal Perth Hospital, of which he
had been medical superintendent from 1927 to
1930, Thomas Lynewold Anderson, a Melbourne
University M.D. who had practised in Westralia
since before the turn of the century. Largely
responsible for controlling bubonic-plague out-
breaks in Fremantle and Geraldton between
1901 and 1906, he was awarded the 0.8. E.
for his medical work in World War I.


WHAT MISS KAFOOPS WORE AT THE RACES


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mingari”: Let me give a watery turn
to this argument on the ability of the
aborigine to find his way about. Was
once faced with the unpleasant necessity
of crossing the Gascoyne River (W.A.)
just above the mouth at Carnarvon during
one of its rare but very efficient floods.
It seemed about threequarters of a mile
wide at this particular point, and the
muddy water was completely opaque.
None of the party could swim, opportuni-
ties for learning in those parts being
naturally rare, and, like the present one,
usually unwelcome. One of the boys, how-
ever, said he could lead us over, and
proceeded to do so, the water never at
any time coming higher than the armpits
(and that was quite high enough for me).
We zigzagged considerably, keeping to
the higher parts of the bottom which
the boy somehow managed to find by
studying the surface of the river. Some-
times we waited while he scouted on
ahead, and the journey took an hour —
about 58 minutes too long to be really
enjoyable. What signs he managed to
pick up I don’t know, as the whole surface
looked alike to me, and he was looking
along it, not down on it, his eyes being
only a couple of feet above its level at
the best of times. Memory probably
played a big part in the feat, as the
point was just below the native camp
outside the town, and he had had plenty
“Uranium me foot! —Buried city!"
of chances to study the bed when it was
dry. Even so, it and the relative land-
marks must have been very firmly photo-
graphed on his memory, as it was several
months since he had last been there.
* * * *
“Jose”: Barossa Reservoir (S.A.) has
its own whispering gallery. The curved
concrete wall holding back the water has
such acoustic properties that a whisper
at one end of the 175 yd. wall can be
heard at the other end quite loudly. Even
the ticking of a watch held near the wall
is quite audible.
« ♦ * *
“Phil Anthus”: Although most of the
14 species of cuckoos inhabiting Aus-
tralia are spread over islands to the north,
only one of them —a recluse known as
the Oriental cuckoo —belongs also to
Asia; and so a Red Page reviewer (B.
24/9 / ’52) was in error in supposing a
“brain-fever” cuckoo of the Burma
region to be the bird known by that title
in Australia. Here the term is usually
applied (when it is used) to the common
pallid-cuckoo, a bird that doesn’t wander
any farther north than Queensland. But,
in fact, almost any cuckoo —not except-
ing Britain’s “bird that invented the
clock” —can be labelled
“brain-fever bird” at times.
That is to say, most have
dolorous voices and all are
nocturnal callers, and when
a particular male is feeling
a trifle lonely he is apt to
produce, oft in the stilly night,
the signature-tune of his
kind —a sound that becomes
maddening through its
monotonous iteration. A
few years ago a Melbourne
man took the law into his
own hands in regard to a
bronze cuckoo whose pierc-
ing wails had disturbed
his slumbers; and when he
tendered to a startled court
a desperate imitation of the
bird’s performance there were
many who thought he should
have escaped a fine. Why
should this particular group
of birds, diurnal in most
of their activities, be so
addicted to calling at
night? And why have they
failed to cultivate any suggestion of the
melody of other woodland birds? One
explanation—as good as any other —is
that their parasitic habits have caused
cuckoos to become homeless and friend-
less, with every bird’s beak against them,
and so their nocturnal dolor is simply the
plaint of the outcast.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: On the sandspit three
pelicans stood on their broad feet, one
drowsing, the other two ruffling their
feathers, lazily poking under wings and
flanks with their great bills. ‘ A fisherman
drifted round the bend and passed quite
close to them. They ignored him. A
cow and calf drifted down to the river
and drank. The pelicans were unmoved.
They cocked a mildly inquiring eye at
a flight of teal which landed on the
sparkling water in a flurry of foam and
quacks, then fell somnolent. The river
flowed steadily past the sand, behind
them a mild breeze stirred the gums, a
horseman dropped from the high bank
and rode along the sand. The big birds
drowsed on. So did I, where I lay on
the bank about 50 yards from them. I
started when one pelican clapped its beak,
the other two came instantly to the alert
and in a second all three were beating
the water, urgently rising. There was
nothing I could see to scare them until,
three or four minutes after they’d gone,
a youth carrying a single-barrel gun
appeared. How did they know?
♦ * * *
“E.V.H.”; Butch, one-year-old half-
kelpie, half-cattle-dog, was perfectly still,
eyes, nose and ears pointed in the direc-
tion of the fowlyard, on the fence of
which a white hen that had somehow
missed the wing-cutting round-up was
perched in triumph. With a loud squawk,
she fluttered down to the freedom of the
paddock. At the same instant Butch be-
came a streak of black-and-tan action.
For a while, the hen outmanoeuvred his
headlong rushes, retaining her freedom
only at the cost of some tail-
feathers. The chase made rapid progress
towards one corner the paddock,
possibly because there was a thick
growth of sword-grass there which might
offer sanctuary, but most likely because
it was downhill. The remaining fowls
cackled encouragement, and some geese,
further afield, joined in. The inmates of
the house rushed out and added their
whistles and cries of “Cummere, Butch”
to the bedlam. Only Butch was silent in
deadly concentration. The pursued hen
neared the sword-grass and became air-
borne. It looked as though she might
make it. Then, either because of exhaus-
tion or loss of tail-feathers, she sud-
denly dived into the fringe of the sword-
grass and lay still. So did Butch. The
first to arrive found the hen quite dead
without a mark on her fat body. Butch
got a beating and the family got poultry
for dinner. While dressing the fowl, the
post-mortem revealed no eggs, and Butch
was partly reinstated. His reinstatement
was complete when it was found that a
disturbing epidemic of egg-eating in the
fowlyard ended that same day.
* * * *
“Hist”: It is to be hoped that some
tree-minded Australian landowner will
one day erect for himself a monument as
noble as “Pelham’s Pillar,” at Brockesly,
Lincolnshire, England. The first Baron
Yarborough (family name Pelham)
caused to be planted on his estate, be-
tween the years 1787 and 1823, 12,552,700
trees. Beginning with a first planting of
40,000 saplings, his achievement included
668,800 in 1797 and 680,450 in 1815.
What is more, the family has kept it up;
the fourth Earl of Yarborough (died
1936) raised the total plantings to over
30 million, for about half of which he
was personally responsible during his
60 years of stewardship. While these
man-made forests comprise chiefly indi-
genous trees oak, ash, elm, chestnut,
beech, larch, spruce, pines and firs—
experimental plantings of imported
species have been included. A specimen
of the giant sequoia, planted in 1856, is
now over 100 ft. high.
* * * *
“Water of Leith” tells of a strange
phenomenon on the Waimea Plains,
Otago (M.L.): — ;
It was a raw morning, misty, the pasture
crunched underfoot with the hoar frost; there
was no wind, but the southerly drift made a
variable visibility from several hundred down
to a distance of 40 or 50 yards. As I climbed
down from the tractor the white patch in the
•east was a two-hour-old sun, and with an iron
standard in gloved fist I paced out four chains
due west, stabbed in the standard as a mark
for the new furrow, then continued across the
paddock, only vaguely conscious of the rainbow
or mist-bow ahead, as I was really concerned
with the amount of ground to be ploughed,
left over from the standard to the edge of the
terrace. The terrace, densely tussocked, runs
down to the swamp at about 45 degrees. I
know every yard of that swamp. Suddenly 1
became conscious of the rainbow. Its ends,
highly colored, more than a semicircle, rested
on the swamp about 300yds. apart, but plumb
centre, standing up from the swamp, as it
were, was a brilliant little rainbow which
surrounded a black silhouette of my head,
shoulders, body, and touched the black shadow
of my hips, while from this base a black
line crossed the swamp, angled a little up the
red tussock of the slope, and faded out as it
came to me. I stood amazed. When I side-
stepped to the left, the outer rainbow as well
as the small rainbow and my shadow moved
across the swamp. The same occurred when I
side-stepped to the right. When I stepped back
my silhouette and halo sank into the swamp.
I edged my halo to the feathery stalks of a
clump of toi-toi with the idea of a picture,
and immediately noted that the apparent
diameter of the brilliant little rainbow was
about 12ft. Thus I amused myself for about
10 minutes, and returned through the fog to
the tractor. There I discovered myself absent-
mindedly burying with my toe a great big pink
lob-worm in the fresh earth from the sharp
eyes of terns and little black-capped gulls that
had built themselves into a large flock during
the past hour. So I had another grin at myself
and restarted the engine. But it was uncanny.
“Just defrosting the fridge , love!"
THEY’LL TELL YOU ABOUT ME
Me, I’m the man that dug the Murray for
Sturt to sail down, ... f
I am the one that rode beside the man from
Snowy River, . . , , ...
and I’m Ned Kelly’s surviving brother (or did
I marry his sister?
I forget which), and it was my thumbnail that
wrote that Clancy
had gone a-droving, and when wood was scarce
I set the grass on fire
and ran with it three miles to boil my billy,
only to find
I’d left the tea and sugar back with my
tucker-bag, , . .
and it was me, and only me, that shot througn
with the padre’s daughter,
shot through with her on the original Bonai-
trara.
But it’s a lie that I died hanging from a
parrot’s nest
with my arm in a hollow limb when my horse
moved from under me;
I never die, I’m like the Leichhardt survivor 1
discovered
fifty years after the party had disappeared, I
never die. . .
I’m Lasseter and Leichhardt both, I joined the
wires of the O.T.
so that Todd could send the first message from
Adelaide to Darwin; .
I settled everywhere before the explorers arrived,
my tracks criss-cross the Simpson Desert like
city streets,
and I’ve hung my hat on Poeppel’s Peg a
thousand times.
It was me who boiled my billy under the
coolibah,
told the bloke in the flash car to open his own
flamin’ gates,
put the goldfields pipeline through where the
experts said nobody could,
left the dog guarding my tucker-box outside of
Gundagai,
yarned with Tom Collins while we fished for a
cod someone’d caught years before,
and gave Henry Lawson the plots to make his
stories from.
Me, I found a hundred wrecked galleons on
the Queensland coast
dripping with doubloons moidores and golden
Inca swords,
and dug a dozen piles of guelders from a
Westralian beach;
I was the one that invented the hollow wood-
heap,
and I built the Transcontinental, despite heat,
dust, death, thirst and flies,
I led the ragged thirteen, I fought at Eureka
and Gallipoli and Lae,
and I was a day too early (or was it too late?)
to discover Coolgardie,
lost my original Broken Hill share in a hand of
cribbage,
threw fifty heads in a row in the. big game at
Kal,
took a paddle-steamer seventy miles out of the
Darling on a heavy dew,
then tamed a Gippsland bunyip and sooled
him on
to capture the Tantanoola Tiger and Fisher’s
Ghost
and became Billy Hughes’s secretary for a
couple of weeks.
Me, I outshore Jacky Howe, gave Buckley his
chance,
and have had more lonely drinks than Jimmy
Woods:
I jumped across Govett’s Leap and wore an
overcoat in Marble Bar,
sailed a cutter down the Kindur to the Inland
Sea,
and never travelled until I went to Moonta.
Me, I was the first man ever to climb to the
top of Ayer’s Rock,
pinched one of the Devil’s Marbles for the
kids to play with,
drained the mud from the Yarra, sold the
coathanger for a gold brick,
and asked for beer off the ice at Innamincka.
Me —yesterday I was rumor,
today I am legend,
tomorrow, history.
If you’d like to know more of me
inquire at the pub at Tennant Creek
or at any drover’s camp
or shearing-shed
or shout any bloke in any bar a drink
or yarn to any bloke asleep on any beach,
they’ll tell you about me,
they’ll tell you more than I know myself.
After all, they were the ones that created me,
even though I’m bigger than any of them now
—in fact, I’m all of them rolled into one.
For anyone to kill me he’d have to kill
every single Australian,
every single one of them,
every single one.
s.A.
IAN MUDIE.


Wandoo”; When I lived on Cooper’s
Creek, east of Lake Eyre, there was a
small swamp to the north of Dulkanina,
on the Birdsville track. Its abo. name
was Maltoeliworaworamdlanani, which
means, in the Dieri language, “throwing
up malto or buck-bush into the air.”
Accents over the syllables indicate the
correct accentuation. Now, if that had
been done by the old-time surveyors:
when they wrote down the names of
places on their maps we should not have
such mispronunciations (B. 24/10/’52) as
in the case of Oodnadatta. The right
pronunciation of that name is Ood-
naatata, and it is the Aranda (or Arunta
as some spell it) for the flower of the
mulga (Acacia aneura). Oodnaatata is
certainly the more euphonious.
“Emjai”: Old Bob was on the basis of
wages-and-found, and, with his appetite,
the latter part of the contract was no
mean order. Shearing finished* there
were only four of the regular hands sitting
in to breakfast, but there was an ample
carryover of sausages, and each hand was
served with four outsize samples. While
Bob hoed into his plateful two of the
others stopped after the first bite, one
just snitfed, and all pushed their plates
away and packed up with bread and
jam. Bob looked around with surprise,
then his eyes lit up. “Hey! Don’t you
blokes like sausages?” he asked. “No!”
grunted Wally. “On the nose.” Bob
gathered in the other plates and cleaned
them up. Then, loading his pipe, and full
of sausage and content, he remarked:
Jest as well we et them sausages this
morning. They mightn’t ’ave lasted till
lunch.”
* * * *
“Stweeler”: Many students of the
abos. describe the smoke-signal (B.
24/9/’52) as part of a thought-transfer-
ence system. The smoke-signal does not
convey any message, say these theorists,
but is merely a sort of “calling-all-cars”
to warn those interested to twiddle the
dials of their thought-transference sets on
to the requisite mind-length.
* * * *
“Fastfish”; The instinct for self-preser-
vation seems to be stronger in the cow
whale than in the bull, judging from
observations on W.A.’s three whaling-
stations. Should the gunner shoot a
cow whale—-not one with calf, for this
incurs severe penalties—the accompany-
ing bulls will stay in the vicinity long after
the cow is dead and in most cases make
sitting-shots. On the other hand, should
the bull be taken first, any cows in the
school will make off immediately.
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”: Starfish cart do a whole
lot better than “Kelms” suggests (B.
1/10/’52) in the way of growing re-
placements. Not only do they grow new
limbs to replace those lost, but a severed
limb grows a new starfish ; the new indi-
vidual is seldom as symmetrical as the
original, but considering the kind of life
a starfish leads I don’t suppose appear-
ances count for very much. Apropos
their passion for eating oysters—the only
thing I have in common with a starfish,
incidentally—T. C. Roughley, in one of
his books, tells the sad story of the French
oystermen whose trawling-grounds were
being thus depleted. Declaring total war
upon the tribe, the Gauls slashed in halves
every starfish that came up in the net.
The bisected nuisances were then hurled
back into the sea. All the Crapauds
succeeded in doing, of course, was to
multiply their troubles by two. And,
for the benefit of the bloke who’s bound
to reply that oysters live on rock and
mangrove sticks, and so forth, let me
add that in the North Sea and other
European waters they are trawled and
"Now don't get whingeing any more that a trainman's life's
a monotonous one.”
dredged from banks. Hence the astonish-
ment of our ancestors when explorers
returned from the mangrove swamps of
Africa with tales of a land where the
bivalves grew on trees,
* * * *
“Llib”: If “Mudbank” had stayed on
the Murchison long enough to learn a
bit about the country he’d have soon had
the answer to the paradox of the rabbit
chasing the dingo (B. 8/10/’52). There,
dingoes always hunt in pairs, and it is
easy to see what happened. A dingo
was chasing a rabbit closely followed by
his mate chasing another rabbit. The
four animals just happened to be in line
ahead, that’s all, and what “Mudbank”
saw were the two central characters in a
four-animal show.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: On Darnley Island, in
Torres Strait, water-supplies are usually
furnished by native wells or springs. This
is how one of them, “Eib’s Well,” was
made, according to my old friend Idagi.
In Bomeow village lived an old fellow
named Eib. One day when the Mauram
ware going turtle-hunting they
made “zogo” by preparing a big helmet-
shell as a charm to bring good luck,
filled it with water, and hung it on a
tree-branch some distance away. Awak-
ing from a midday siesta, Eib caught
sight of the shining object through the
trees, and walked off
to examine it. Taking
the shell down carefully, he
decided to carry it home.
On the way he spilt some
of the water —this is the site
of a permanent pool.
Further along more of the
contents capsized ; a' second
small waterhole marks this
spot. Arriving eventually at
his own abode, he thirstily
drank a whole bellyful from
the shell and lay down.
Meanwhile, the Mauram
men, finding they were
having no success with the
turtling, suspected that
something had gone wrong,
and decided to return and
investigate the cause of the
charm’s ineffectiveness.
Where the shell had been
they noticed footprints, but
waited until all the canoes
had returned before setting
out to trail the desecrator
of the shrine. That night,
armed with barbed stingray-
tails, spears and other
weapons, they stealthily
approached Fib’s hut. He
was asleep. Springing on
him suddenly, the avengers
dug the stingray-barbs into
his bulging stomach, and
immediately a great stream
of water gushed out and
formed a deep pool. Taking
up the body, they flung it
into the newly-made well, and returned to
their own village. Eib’s waterhole (with the
body and shell in it) was still yielding
supplies when I last saw it; and at
periodic intervals the old zogo-men used
to come along to clean it out for use,
meanwhile uttering incantations against
those like Eib who desecrated holy
places and destroyed sacred objects at
shrines.
“Maros”: One point I would question
in H. A. Lindsay’s interesting story of
our inland salt lakes (B. 8/10/’52). The
Ice Ages of the past were not due to
a variation of the earth’s orbit round
the sun. This is one theory (among
many) to account for the glacial periods,
but there are scientific reasons why it is
untenable—one is that the Ice Ages
occurred at different times on opposite
sides of the world. (Australia’s, by the
way, seem to have arrived before those
in other parts.) Probably many factors
helped to cause them; still, the main
reason seems to have been slight changes
in solar radiation —nothing to do with
variations of the earth’s orbit. For in-
stance, decrease in solar radiation would
mean a lower temperature and less snow-
fall, because of decrease in the circula-
tion of the world’s atmosphere and de-
creased cloud-production. Hence, thick-
ness of the ice would diminish. A small
increase in radiation would thus lead to
increased glaciation. But, if the increase
were very great, the annual melting may
exceed the annual snowfall, and the ice-
covering may then disappear altogether.
A small reduction in annual mean tem-
perature is therefore sufficient to pro-
duce another Ice Age.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”; As it happens, there
is a dugite snake quite away from poetic
fancy (B. 3/9/’52). It’s one of the com-
monest in W.A., and the one that causes
the most arguments. Not about its habits
or venom, but about its color. This varies
from a light green to a brown, according
to the district in which it is found, and
as its habitat extends from the wheat-
belt to the lower sou’-west there’s ample
room for variation. It has one particu-
"My heavens! I’ll have to start dieting!”
larly distinguishing feature: curiosity.
When the dailies go into hysterics over
a snake that was found wandering
through a suburban house you can bet
it’s a dugite, whatever the paper’s expert
calls it. I got one last summer as it was
about to enter the back door, and it
merely eyed me curiously as I searched
for a waddy. It was still eyeing me as I
leant the stick behind where its ears
should be. It’s poisonous, but I’ve never
heard of one attacking or striking any-
one, and I don’t think it’s even com-
monly known, which indicates that,
despite its curiosity, it dodges humans
when it can. Even those who know of it
are apt to confuse it with the dalgite,
which is a type of boody- or kangaroo-
rat found in the wheatbelt.
* * * *
“Ceg”: “Gulliver” (B. 17/9/’52), on
the subject of “oonts,” might have gone
a little further and mentioned another of
their peculiarities. Usually a camel will
do almost anything except back-up. If
you want a camej to recede the only
thing to do is to make it circle and then
approach the required position head-on.
Goading will only result in the beast
lying down and more than likely spitting
on you. In one of his essays Alexander
Woolcott tells of a young cowboy who
undertook to teach a camel to walk back-
wards. The animal selected was a “moth-
eaten old stud” who first tore to shreds
a straw dummy under the impression
that it was the cowboy. One of the train-
ing contraptions used was a beliyband
so studded with nails that the camel could
not employ the time-honored trick of
lying down without considerable pain.
After three months of training the oont
would take 17 steps backwards. Always
17—nothing would induce it to take more
or less. Round the sawdust-ring it would
go, then came the backward steps. How-
ever, despite the fact that nothing like it
had ever been seen before, no interest
was aroused, and the great receding-camel
act was a complete flop. This was due,
of course, to the fact that most people
are not aware that camels don’t walk
backwards every day.
* * * *
“L.S.M.”: There’s no big fortune in
the business, but as a sideline it brings in
a steady income to its owner. Stock-
in-trade consists of two “bombs,” one a
1925 model without doors, and the other
a year or so younger and possessed of an
engine, but little else. Both cars have
been on the market for at least two years ;
but, although there have been a number
of buyers, the original owner is still in
proud possession. All deposits have been
forfeited, because the would-be new
owners, although satisfied with their pur-
chases, have been unable to get enough
out of the “bombs” to negotiate the
steep hill which leads away from the
home paddock.
* * «
“Mat’s Mate”; Between Terowie and
Gumbowie (S. Aust.) we topped a little
hill just in time to see a haystack go up
and the fire start through the grass
towards a homestead close by. We broke
evens down there, grabbed a couple of
wheat-sacks, dunked them in a little dam
and went for the fire. Only other person
there was a girl in overalls, who hopped
in with us. Between belts and gasps and
yelps we gathered that she was at home
alone, but there wasn’t any time to talk.
It would have beaten us had not men
and boys raced up from nowhere, and
between us we got it out. Mat took a
big swig from a waterbag, wiped a hand
over his blackened face and said, with
some enthusiasm, “Good sort of a girl
that. See how she waded in. No non-
sense about her.” A stocky bloke, still
in his Sunday suit, sought us out. “I
own this place,” he said. “Me daughter
told me about you two blokes. Soon’s
she’s cleaned herself up a bit she wants
t’ see y’.” Mat watched him go off,
then got up and said, “Come on, let’s
fade away.” “Ain’t y’ goin’ t’ wait an’ ”
“Look,” he cut in, “y’ got nothin’
t’ worry about when y’re fightin’ a fire
with a woman ; but when she does her-
self up an’ gets ready t’ thank y’ that’s
when y’ start worryin’. Let’s fade away.”
And it was so.
GHOST-GUM AND DESERT-OAK
l-ar in that valley those two lovers stand
dose to the rock-walls of their tribal land:
r t. l -t slender girl whose sculptured white
limbs rustle her deep green hair against the
night;
her dark-limbed lover, whose wild cloud
ot hair sings fiercely on, now low, now loud;
sings on to her his endless charadas
under the cold white fire, the blazing of the
stars.
Faint on the desert’s floor, beneath that fire,
the dingo howls in silver, thin desire,
circlmg to where the rock-walls’ clefts alone
u" ° u • torme f lt from their star-struck stone.
Hei nan- held in her arms, that make no stir,
the white tree dreams. Her lover wakes to her.
N.S.Wj
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
THE WOMBAT
I’m a common sort,
With just a snort,
A hole’s my ancestral setting.
Socially-speaking, not much;
But still I’ve got the touch
For dealing with wire-netting.
Oh why should I b'e fretting
When wise men say
I know the way
To burrow through wire-netting?
Each to his last,
So life is cast,
Each one his own praise getting.
I’m just a plain-looking cuss
And I don’t get the petting—
But who’s a genius
At breaking through wire-netting?
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


Wf.
There’s Only
ONE
DAVEY!
4 HEARD IN
GREAT WEEKLY RADIO SHOWS AT 8 p.m.
★ Mondays — "GIVE IT A GO" presented by the makers
of Persil.
★ Tuesdays— "ASK ME ANOTHER" presented by the
makers of Eno’s and Brylcreem.
★ Wednesdays —"THE DULUX SHOW" presented by the
makers of Dulux Paints.
★ Fridays— THE AMPOL SHOW—‘‘Number Please”
presented by Ampol Petroleum Ltd.
Produced by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service and presented
over an Australia-wide network of commercial broadcasting stations
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
vm
fNfKtf
m
m
1
: m
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE GIRL!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t have to win her “by a whisker” ... it
was that smooth, clean-shaven look. Your shave,
too, will look good and feel good with Palmolive—
the Shaving Cream that gives better shaves to 3
men out of every 4. Here’s the proof: 1,251 men
tried it ... 31% reported “Beards easier to cut!
. . . 711% said “Less razor pull” . . . 71% said
“Closer shaves.” . . . 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” Judge it yourself. Join the ranks of
successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
The shaving cream
of successful men
BANKERS • / EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWXERS
Business. Rollery. etc.
Work and Capital
There are few problems facing
Australians at present that
harder, more intelligent work
won’t cure. The sooner all of
us get that into our minds the
better. And whatever anomaly
may seem to exist in this line of
reasoning during a period in
which demand for many types of
production is falling away and
in which unemployment is
greater than it has been for some
years, we should not forget
that the cure for falling demand
is greater, cheaper production,
and the cure for any unemploy-
ment we may be experiencing is
greater production per head per
week.
These seemingly anomalous
remedies for a condition
resembling the beginning of a
slump arise from the fact that
the cause of our present
uncertain economic position has
been the high rise in costs since
1f39, and the low rate of pro-
ductivity. If costs were lower
and production considerably
higher there would be no need
whatever to restrict credit. But
the continued expansion of credit
Without a corresponding increase
in productivity would be
disastrous. There is not
enough production, not enough
efficiency, not enough profit,
not enough savings, not
enough investment. And there are
too many non-producers being
carried on the backs of those
who do deliver the goods.
One of the heartening features
of our economy at present—and
one which gives a lead to all
other sections of the industrial
community, seeing that coal was
until just recently one of our
most stubborn problems—is the
increase in coal-production, the
output for 1951-52 being over
19 million tons. On the other
hand, costs of producing coal
have risen enormously, and go on
rising.
This rise in costs will continue
to be a menace to employment
and our industrial development
until all sections of industry start
to show an increased output per
head. More regular supplies of
coal and electric-power will tend
to bring costs down, even where
they themselves are no cheaper ;
regularity of supply in itself is
an economic virtue. And it is a
fact that in many factories the
threat of unemployment has al-
ready stimulated per-capita pro-
duction, with consequent reduc-
tion in costs. But the 40-hour
week is still a burden and an
anomaly in a country which has
so much to do and so few facili-
ties for doing it. Much more
all-round production is needed
in order to make up the loss
which was entailed by the drop
in hours from 44 to 40.
Australia is in urgent need of
capital, and therefore in need of
savings. We need capital to
develop our industrial potential,
to maintain our present essential
services. Our transport system
is less efficient than it was in
1939. Our roads have de-
teriorated. We are behind with
our water-conservation projects.
In order to develop our
resources we should be working
harder than ever we have worked
before. We have many war-time
years’ arrears of construction to
make up. If ever Australia
needed to put emphasis upon
harder work and greater thrift
it is at the present time. It is
only out of savings— out of
surplus production over ordinary
consumption—that we shall ever
have the wherewithal to build up
industry to the strength that is
required. Overseas capital would
help us do the job, but overseas
capital will not come here readily
unless we are making a show of
tackling the problem willingly
ourselves, and exhibiting a suffi-
cient surplus of exports to pay
interest and repay loans.
Many economists today are
dazzled by the money-picture of
our present situation. That
picture, while it undoubtedly
possesses its important aspects,
even if they be so often of a
distorting nature, is subsidiary
to the real prospect, in which
material and manpower factors
are so important. Goi on
money figures alone, many easi-
nesses would seem to have been
doing well over the past few
years. Actually many traders
have, in reality, been selling
themselves poor: proceeds of
their turnover for several succes-
sive years would not even replace
the stock sold, let alone show a
profit. And much plant has
been worn out for a return that
will not replace the machinery,
let alone show a real surplus for
shareholders.
What is true of such businesses
is in many respects also true of
Australia itself.
Investment and “Works”
The Commonwealth Bank’s
report on a story very sad to
the hearts of most State
Premiers;
The volume of Australian domestic
investment in 1951-52 still reflected the
influence of the high incomes of the
previous years, developmental needs
and a growing population. With the
inflation of costs and prices which
occurred, this meant a substantially
increased level of investment expendi-
tures.
Public authorities commenced the
year with extensive programmes of
public works, designed to meet the
needs of an expanding economy.
“Any luck?”
Although it was not possible for
all these plans to be realised in full,
substantial progress was made, and
the level of expenditures for this pur-
pose was considerably higher than
before. The expenditure of public
authorities (i.e., the Commonwealth
and State Governments and semi- and
local-government bodies) on new
works and maintenance and on
defence was equivalent to approxi-
mately 17 p.c. of the national income
in 1951-52, compared with 13 p.c. in
1950-51, 11 p.c. in 1949-50 and 9 p.c.
in 1938-39. Many projects now in
progress will take years to complete,
and there are still many tasks to
be undertaken. Nevertheless it is
doubtful if Australia can, at present
levels of savings and of taxation,
continue to support from its own
resources the volume of works
achieved in 1951-52.
Private investment, despite the
appearance of financial difficulties,
was also much higher than in 1950-51,
largely under the impetus of plans
already laid and embarked upon.
Dwelling - construction proceeded
apace. Towards the end of the year
rather fewer new houses were being
commenced than before, but the fall in
commencements made possible the
more rapid completion of buildings.
Investment in stocks, some of it
involuntary, reached high proportions,
and financing their stocks presented
difficulties to . many firms. These
stocks, however, will cushion the
effects of import restrictions on the
supplies of goods available.
Public Finance
In the face of the large outlay on
defence and development the public
response to Go’vernment loan Issues
during the year was disappointing.
The Loan Council had approved a
total borrowing programme for the
Commonwealth and the States of
£225 million. In order to ensure that
funds would be available for this
programme, the Commonwealth
Government had guaranteed to pro-
vide funds from its own resources to
the extent that loan raisings fell short
of the approved works expenditure.
The Commonwealth substantially
increased tax rates early in the year
and budgeted for a surplus of £ll4
million. The net return from public-
loan raisings during the year amounted
to only £63 million, which was only
half the level of the previous year,
and, consequently, the amount which
had to be provided by the Common-
wealth to the States was much greater
than expected. Moreover, the Com-
monwealth’s Budget surplus actually
achieved was about £l6 million
below the estimate.
It has been necessary, therefore,
for the short-term debt to be in-
creased. Movements in Treasury bills
for recent years are shown below:
Treasury Bills Outstanding
End of June, £
1946 .. .. 343,000,000
1947 .. .. 278,000,000
1948 .. .. 208,000,000
1949 .. .. 123,000,000
1950 .. .. 108,000,000
1951 .. .. 108,000,000
1952 .. .. 153,000,000
Semi- and local-government bodies
also experienced difficulties in raising
funds, and were forced to curtail
their works programmes.
The Governmental borrowing pro-
gramme (including funds for Com-
monwealth-State housing) approved
by the Loan Council for 1952-53
amounts to £247.5 million. The
Commonwealth has agreed to do its
utmost to raise the maximum possible
amount from the loan market, but
has not assumed any responsibility
for finding the total amount voted.
The Commonwealth has, however,
undertaken to arrange special assist-
ance in respect to the 1952-53 Loan
Council programme up to a maximum
amount of £135 million. The Loan
Council also approved a total borrow-
ing programme of £110.5 million for
major semi-government bodies, but
subject to the understanding that each
State would use its best efforts to
limit actual borrowings to a mini-
mum. The amount of £17.5 million
was also approved for other semi-
government and local authorities.
With costs still rising and
manpower hard to get for
essential work, “Labor” is
already asking for greater use
of bank-credit finance. This
year (1952-53) may be a very
difficult one, but our problems
will not be solved by further
inflation.
The following Federal statis-
tics relating to N. S. Wales
reveal some of the ugly infla-
tionary trends to which the State
Industrial Commission referred
when it recently rescinded
marginal wage increases granted
by a State Conciliation Commit-
tee in September, 1951:
In-
crease.
1951. 1952. p.c.
Retail turn-
over .. £668.9m. £754.7m. 12.8
Price indexes*:
Wholesale,
imports t 2712 3007 10.9
Wholesale,
looalf .. 2794 3285 17.5
“C” series,
retail .. 2155 2576 19.5
Basic wage,
per weekj 180/- 223/- 23.9
* Three years to June, 1939=1000.
f Basic materials and foodstuffs,
j For June quarter.
To a large extent, said the com-
mission, the basic wage of 1950,
its adjustments quarter by
quarter, and increases in
secondary rates of pay allowed
by both Commonwealth and
State awards since 1950 have
steadily fed the fires of inflation
and aggravated the disruption of
the economy. The present trend
threatens the continued employ-
ment of thousands of employees,
as well as the ability of industry
to provide full working time.


t
QJ7
Fastest to
D
A
A
AND MANILA
a
M
m
ms
S’®
Specify QANTAS Air
Cargo service for your
merchandise—send your
mails by air.
Travel on business be-
comes a pleasure and
there’s time to see more
of the beauty of Japan
when you fly by fast
QANTAS service. Japan
is only 2 days from
Sydney! You reach Manila,
en route, in less than 24
hours. Regular weekly ser-
vices by modern Skymaster.
Traditionally good QANTAS
Steward Service, quick frozen
foods served hot in the air.
Consult your Travel Agent.
FLY
QANTAS
There's a World of Difference
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED (Inc. in Queensland)
From a banker’s diary No» 7
Wednesday: Was pleased to see
Mr. Hmn a customer of many
years standing who wanted
advice on a short-term
investment.
'
liil
msm
ill
m
Interest-bearing deposits
Mr. IHBB has just sold a block of land,
intends to buy a car in 6 or 7 months, but dis-
likes leaving the money idle in the meantime.
However, he is not keen to invest it in bonds or
shares for such a short term, so came to me for
advice. I suggested an interest-bearing deposit,
maturing in 6 months, and was happy to arrange
an immediate transfer from his current account.
You, too, should consult and use—
/V t'o' v
V
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED. LIABILITY)
A5217C
TST.23.V*
- » 3 Hi Mist
;
i
crT
09
90
m
-< c*
lyU^dlilHHIHISiiliiSiil
Utiß'umiij
tyVili fat
ptMld t&
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
What promises to be a bitter
Parliamentary period will follow
hard after the political confer-
ences at Morecambe and Scar-
borough. The Conservatives’
pledge to unscramble the nation-
alised transport and iron and
steel is down for the next session
and is bound to lead to an
excess of bad blood.
Meanwhile, the Government’s
stock, which had sunk pretty low
by the end of June, has risen
steadily. With the Socialists pre-
occupied with conferences and
the need to cover up their
internal stresses, the Government
has been able to go about its
business free from the provoca-
tions of fractious opposition.
The signs are that the country is
reasonably well satisfied; and
the moral (unfortunately, riot
one likely to be taken to heart)
is that the British people appre-
ciate what, in fact, they deserve
—politicians who devote more
energy to getting on with their
jobs than to ceaseless bickering
over party points.
A strong, if vain, feeling sub-
sists that controversial issues
vital to the life and well-being of
the people should be composed
by inter-party agreement. Hous-
ing, foreign policy, the economic
situation and the severity of
remedial measures are cases in
point. Otherwise, as suffering
observers know too well,
criticism deteriorates into scorn
when the Government in office
blunders, and into belittlement
when it succeeds. It is one of
Mr. Churchill’s splendid failures
that we are denied this ideal, for
no man can have tried harder to
bring it about.
The strongest criticism against
the Government comesi, signi-
ficantly, from orthodox circles in
politics, finance and business
who consider its measures half-
hearted and insufficient. There
is one way only to world
prestige, they say (and, rather
sadly, to automatic inclusion on
Pacific councils), and that is
economic.
Party Conferences
Conservative constituencies
show themselves pleased, if not
completely satisfied, at the results
of their party’s 11 months in
office. Resolutions for the
agenda of the party conference
have nothing of the disparity in
outlook of the Socialists. The
foremost aim is for the streng-
thening of the Commonwealth.
There are doubts upon the
efficacy of G.A.T.T., upon the
desirability of having so-called
comprehensive schools, and a
strong bid is made for revision
of the Rent Restriction Acts.
One batch of proposals shows
the change in outlook of modern
Conservatism, urging constitu-
encies to adopt trade-unionist
candidates.
The one note of dissent is
directed, very strongly, at public
relations, claiming that the Gov-
ernment has not made full use of
publicity and propaganda. There
is evidently wide concern at the
success of Socialist tactics and
the failure to counter them.
Bevan’s New Baby
It is, at all events, a healthy
sign for the Tories that there is
less interest in their own confer-
ence than in the other one, where
the chief focus is upon the
struggle within.
Mr. Aneurin Sevan has stated
his case in his shop-window,
“Tribune,” and appears to be
flattered by the attention he
receives. He affirms that “so
overwhelming is the appeal to
unity inside the Labor party that
there is a real danger of its being
used to smother critical views
and experimental moods.” In
other words, a threat to Mr.
Bevan’s irrepressible band of
guerrillas. The Tories, of course,
are moribund, while the Com-
munist party’s relation to demo-
cratic institutions is that of a
death-watch beetle —not a party
but a conspiracy. That is to say,
anybody knows where to go if
they want democratic Socialism,
with bite and militancy.
After an attack on capitalist
newspapers and the smear cam-
paign (apparently a new tech-
nique imported into this country
from America for use against
good Socialists) Mr. Bevan
comes to the point, his point.
“The real struggle is for the soul
of the Labor party—and that
consists in our Socialist pur-
pose It must never be for-
gotten that the heart and centre
of Socialism is public owner-
ship.”
No longer part-payment for
dentures, foreign policy or the
scale of rearmament! “Public
ownership” (i.e., nationalisation)
is the new baby. And why, since
nationalisation has proved so dis-
appointing, is it in favor again?
There’s a good enough reason.
The “floor” of the T.U.C. con-
ference, in an emotional outburst
of some intensity, passed a reso-
lution calling for further nation-
alisation of everything as yet
untouched, to the acute discom-
fort of their leaders and Mr.
Attlee’s moderates. Mr. Bevan,
who is neither liked nor trusted
by the T.U. leaders, has charac-
teristically spotted another
opportunity for knight-errantry.
Old Vic. Furore
It is heartening to see long
queues outside the Vic.’s advance-
booking office. Our all-but
natiohal theatre has for too long
been living on its reputation. In-
sufficiency behind the curtain has
often earned no more than polite
attention in front; and there is
no more insidious drug upon
artistic effort than cold polite-
ness.
Let us be cruelly frank and
admit that the wide interest in
“Romeo and Juliet” owes much
to Charlie Chaplin, whose new
leading lady, Claire Bloom, plays
Juliet. But let us also acknow-
ledge that, although the curiosity
which surrounds international
fame may pack a house, some-
thing more substantial is needed
to hold its hushed and apprecia-
tive attention. That is what is
happening, to the astonishment
of the staff and to the infectious
delight of the actors, at every
performance.
Hugh Hunt’s cohesive produc-
tion, visually helped by Roger
Purse’s sunbaked set, establishes
at once a Verona of passionate
temper, vainglorious pride and
impetuous violence. It also
makes clear from Chorus’s very
first words the essential simplicity
of the tragedy: pure, true love
crossed and defiled by man’s
frenetic intolerance. Nor does it
wander often from traditional
orthodoxy. The movements are
meaningful, the silences telling,
and there are some lovely
silhouettes. Only once—an out-
of-place pas de deux when the
lovers meet —does its stylism
verge upon the absurd.
Claire Bloom’s Juliet is no
mere good-looker, easy on the
eye and the sympathy. Her pro-
jection is of the spirit, not of the
personality, which rightly is
reserved for her Romeo. None
of her predecessors that we have
seen has ever so faithfully por-
trayed the wonderment, ecstasy
and agony -of first love, requited
but unfulfilled. Her irony in the
later scenes is superb. And she
looks no more than two years
older than the 13 which Shak-
speare so undeniably but incon-
siderately allowed.
Alan Badel’s Romeo does not
quite fit, seeming rather to
belong to another production. It
is Shakspearian, but an Italianate
Hamlet or a youthful Jacques.
His dewy eye, velvety tones and
hint of melancholy are alien to
his Montague kinsmen. Peter
Finch’s Mercutio lives and dies
in magnificent style. If his voice
rather lacks depth and power, it
is amply compensated by the
virile acting; his passing leaves
a sorry void. Lewis Casson is
finely cast, tender in spirit but
firm of purpose as Friar
Laurence. Athene Seyler’s Nurse
does not altogether avoid
synthesis and is handicapped, not
perhaps of her own bidding, by
a too - successful “throwing;-
away” of lines. The Nurse’s
bawdiness surely is vital to the
theme, setting into relief the
purity of her charge’s love,
There is no nonsense about the
fighting, which is the real thing.
All the minor parts are played
well, several with distinction,
The whole, in fact, is a remark -
able achievement of team-work.


a
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshcad,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B.
Heller; W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: .C. B. R. Cowdcry.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Experienced Management
nf Agricultural and
Pastoral Properties
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia s oldest Trustee Company,
has a wide association with the administration of rural properties. It provides efficient mmiag£
ment, safeguards the interests of dependents, and provides ample security for the performance
of Trusts at a fixed and moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet.
I
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
TR2.35
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1945. . 153,258 8 p.c. — 138,600 7 q n.o q±o qiq
Staff fund, £5000 .. .. 1 9,658 949,313
1946.. 156,026 8 p.c. = 138,600 7
Staff fund, £5000 .. ) 12,426 961,739
1947.. 158,973 8 p.c. = 138,600 7
Staff fund, £5000 .. .. f la,373 977,112
1948.. 149,164 8 p.c. = 138,600 \
Staff fund, £5000 .. • ..J 5,564 982,676
1949.. 150,107 8 p.c. = 138,600 7
Staff fund, £5000 .. ..f 6,507 989,183
1950. . 156,879 8 p.c. = 138,600 7 . „ _
Staff fund, £5000 .. . . ] 13,279 1,002,462
Share premiums, £99,512 .. .. 1,101,974
1951.. 147,994 8 p.c. = 142,065 7 q?Qn(W()fl ,
Staff fund, £5000 .. ..J 9ZJ i,iu/,90d
Share premiums, £62,910 .. .. 1,165,813
1952.. 80,366 4 p.c. = 77,674 2,692 1,168.505
The abrupt contraction of £67,628
(45.6 p.c.) in last term’s declared net
earnings was due not to managerial but
to outside influences, namely the pressure
of rising costs against a ceiling of offici-
ally-controlled selling-prices for beer.
Signs of the approaching trouble showed
up in 1951. For more than a decade
before that gains from expanding turn-
over, or beer consumption, had offset the
buoyancy of costs ; now it is the other
way about, inflation, particularly of wage-
rates, which are such a big element in the
cost of everything, being the villain of the
piece.
One remedy, the chairman says, is to
“decontrol the selling-price of beer, as
the present position is most unsatisfactory
and unreasonable.” He added that the
board was “optimistic as to the present
year’s trading, provided the co. was given
prompt and reasonable treatment as re-
gards increases in selling-prices which are
based on increased costs.” To soften the
squeeze N. S. Wales brewers were granted
two small increases—one at the beginning
and the other at the end of 1951 —in
their proportion of the selling-price of
beer. But they were not enough, as the
co.’s figures show', and a further lift was
asked for in May last, and is still under
consideration.
The Australian output of beer for
the 12 months to June 30 last
increased by only 6.9 p.c. compared
with an increase of 10.9 p.c. for
the previous year. Over the same
periods the basic wage in Sydney in-
creased by 23.9 p.c. and 30.4 p.c. respec-
tively, and was pushed up a further 12s.
to £11 15s. per week for the Sept, quarter
of 1952. At the same time prices for
sugar, barley, hops, malt and other brew-
ing ingredients strengthened, and so did
the cost of bottles, transport and other
overhead. Among other factors affect-
ing the co.’s net returns are rentals, etc,,
from licensed premises, not ascertainable
from the published figures.
A year or so ago there were 2028
licensed hotels in N. S. Wales, of which
Tooheys owned approximately 14 p.c.,
made up as follows: —
Met- New-
ropolitan. castle. Country. Total.
Freeholds .. 78 32 106 216
Leaseholds .. 23 7 34 64
Total .. 101 39 140 280
For the most part they are operated on
the “tied-house” system, which is the
form competition takes, there being no
price-cutting in the trade. Rentals and
bonuses vary according to takings and the
length of the lease.
The 1951 lift of 2s. 7d. a gallon, in
excise on beer, making the total 7s. 2d.
a gallon —it goes to the Treasury, not
the brewer —accounted for £1,353,247 of
last term’s increase in the co.’s gross
earnings (up £1,540,869) and exes, (up
£1,608,497):
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Gross
earnings 2,451,930 2,940,785 3,226,061 4,766;980
Exes. .. 2,301,823 2,783,906 3,078,067 4,686,564
Profit . . 150,107 156,879 147,994 80,366
Excepting the peak of the depression
(1931-33), the profit figure (£80,366) was
lowest for the last 31 years. It was
4.1 p.c. on average capital as against
8.3, 9, 8.6, 8.6 and 9.1 p.c. back to 1947.
The div. —it averaged 8.3 p.c. for the 16
years to 1951 —was cut in halves, reduc-
ing it to 4 p.c., and the co. has never
paid less since it was formed in 1902.
On capital and reserves combined it was
a mere 2\ p.c., and shareholders are en-
titled to expect a reasonable return on
their money, which includes reserves, or
undistributed profits ploughed back into
the business to the benefit of everybody.
During the year £253,935 net was added
to the book-value of fixed assets, mainly
in respect of plant to increase output —
the high cost of building has made ex-
penditure on properties Uneconomical at
the moment, the chairman says:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,891,719 1,992,375
Creditors!-. 374,966 400,383 485,606 812.678
Loans* .. 804,453 804,577 816,014 813,084
Final div. 69,300 69,300 72,765 39,559
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 2,945,115 2,878,965 2,985,994 3,239,929,
Stocks . . 255,265 237,086 353,354 464,065'
Book debts 410,602 732,572 876,853 1,052,614
Cash, etc... 323,643 129,822 117,028 28,816
Shareholdings,
etc. . . 40,777 40,777 40,777 40,777
* Advances by subsidiaries, t Including provision for
taxation, etc.
Stocks increased by £110,711 and book-
debts by £175,761. To meet the outlay
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £88,213
and shareholders put up £163,566
(£100,656 capital and £62,910 share pre-
miums), leaving £86,622 of capital and
£54,145 of share premiums still to come
on the 433,125 new 16s. shares which
were put out at a premium of 10s. each
in November, 1950. The loans are a
domestic matter, being advances from
the finance subsidiary, Tooheys Standard
Securities, Ltd., in which the public holds
the pref. capital (£750,000 5% p.c.) and
the parent 49,979 £1 ords. paid to £12,500.
At 225. (31s. 6d. early in 1952) the f.-p.
16s. shares give an immediate return of
2.9 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The
investor at 225. who looks for a shade
over 5 p.c. on his money counts on a
7 p.c. distribution, which is a reasonable
expectation, all things considered. In-
cluding uncalled capital, etc., net tangible
cover (book-value) is 245. lOd. a share.
New Zealand Insurance Co.
To Re-
May, Profit, t Dividends. serves. Reserves.
* £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
1945.. 396,800 12ip.c.= 187,500 209,300 3,771,075
Peace bonus, p.c., £187,500 .. 3,583,575
1946.. 458,529 12$p.c.= 187,500 271,029 3,854,604
1947.. 931,979 12| „ „ 187,500 744,479 4,599,083
1948.. 994,052 12| „ „ 187,500 806,552 5,405,635
Less exchange adjustments, etc.
£1,217,780 4,187,855
1949.. 796,138 15 p.c. = 225,000 571,138 4,758,993
Unexplained additions, £414,484 .. 5,178,477
Add exchange adjustments, £216,000,. 5,889,477
1950.. 689,910 15 p.c. = 225,000 464,910 5,854,387
Less net exchange adjustm’ts, £15,850 5,838,537
1951.. 978,125 15 p.c. = 225,000 753,125 6,591,662
Add exchange adjustments, etc.,
£33,766 .. 6,625,428
1952.1,050,953 l7Jp,.c.= 262,500 788,453 7,413,881
f Includes net additions to reserve for unexpired risks.
The board’s declared policy in respect
of dividends is to keep the annual dis-
tribution within the net return from in-
vestments, a practice long followed by
leading British and other offices. Hence
the lift in the div. last term from 15 p.c.
to 1 1\ p.c. The higher rate called for
£BlO4 less than the £270,604 received in
interest, rents, etc., after deducting taxa-
tion thereon. Such a policy of profits-
allocation leaves the entire underwriting
surplus available to swell reserves and
therefore investments and the returns
therefrom, thus ensuring high earning-
power in relation to capital, and, at
intervals, increases in the amount distri-
buted as dividends as well as the issue
of bonus-scrip.
Fish swim into the net of this Auckland-
controlled fire, marine and accident office
from all quarters of the globe. Last
term 84 p.c. of the net premium income
was gathered outside the Dominion, from
Australia, U.S., Canada, U.K., Africa,
Middle East, India, Pakistan, East Asia
and the Argentine. Also a large reinsur-
ance business is done in the international
market in London. Activities and earn-
ings are thus subject to a wide range of
economic, political and other influences.
Of the co.’s £1,500,000 of paid capital
£1,200,000 has been provided out of re-
serves since 1912, the last gift being
£300,000 in 1930. For the 22 years since
divs. have averaged 11.8 p.c., and re-
serves now total £7,413,881, including
£3,818,000 earmarked for unexpired risks.
Despite the decline in commodity
prices, especially for wool, cotton, rubber,
tin and jute, and withdrawal from China,
where the co. had been doing business
since 1883, there was a spring of £700,995
in last term’s net premium income:
Loss Expense
jfet Kate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
1946. . 2,398,939 1,343,909 786,477 56.0 32.8
1947. . 3,162,310 1,601,098 822,584 50.6 26.0
1948. . 4,389,856 2,746,296 888,191 62.6 20.2
1949. . 4,018,300 2,344,464 1,069,525 58.3 26.6
1950.. 4,282,246 2,562,710 1,265,089 59.8 29.5
1951. . 5,337,587 3,274,028 1,342,265 61.3 25.1
1952. . 6,038,582 3,595.966 1,662,267 59.5 27.5
Another pleasing feature was the drop
of 365. p.c. in the loss rate, notwithstand-
ing the unsatisfactory experience in con-
nection with third-party and motor-
vehicle risks. Expansion of the business,
inflationary trends and the avaricious
demand of Governments sent the expense
rate up by 445. p.c. Still, the gross under-
writing surplus was £59,055 stronger at
£780,349. Including the net return from
investments (£270,604, up £13,773), the.
gross surplus from all sources was
£1,050,953, up £72,828.
Including £12,113 on account of ex-
change adjustment, the board transferred
£572,000 (£291,602 more than usually
considered adequate) of the £780,349 to
the reserve for unexpired risks, lifting it
to 63.2 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 40 p.c. is usually considered
sufficient. The net amount available for
distribution was thus £491,066 (up
£38,941), equal to 32.7 p.c. on capital as
against 28.8 p.c. for the previous term.
The solid protection for both policy-
holders and shareholders is in this form:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.'
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500.000 1.500.000
Liabilities.. 1,703,051 2,121,996 2,723,301 2,804,352
Final divs. 150,000 112,500 112,500 150,000
Public securi-
ties .. 3,778,547 4,458,526 4,773,218 6,001,916
Mortgages.. 206,456 347,412 502,762 807,809
Shares, etc. 1,676,798 1,991,764 2,170,877 2,207,565
Freeholds . . 734,861 861,662 930,795 1.055,097
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 1,720,882-1,929,518 2,549,811 2,794,819
While the year’s net additions to free-
holds (up £124,302) and agency balances
and cash (up £245,008) reflect continued
expansion of the undertaking, the in-
creases in public securities (up £228,698),
mortgages (up £305,047) and sharehold-
ings, etc. (up £36,688) augur well for the
return from investments.
The f.-p. £1 shares are firmly held. Last
recorded sale on Sydney ’Change was
at £6 12s. (£6 17s. 6d. a year ago). In
N.Z. the scrip recently fetched £5 11s. 6d.,
equal to £6 18s. 3d, in Australian currency
at the current rate of exchange, which
makes a 17£ p.c. div. worth 21.6 p.c. So
the return in Australia at £6 12s. is only
3.2 p.c. on the basis of last term’s dis-
tribution. A one-for-one bonus-scrip
issue and drop in the declared rate of
dividend to 10 p.c. would lift the return
to the Australian investor at £6 12s. to
only 3.8 p.c. Such is the price the market
is prepared to pay for security with
assured prospects.
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd.*
(and Subsidiaries.)
r- 1 Dividends v
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1947.. 12,000 8 = 42,070 55,350 321.596
From tax reserve, £15,368 .. .. 336,964
1948.. 105.275 12,000 8 = 42,070 51,205 388,169
Maintenance reserve disappears, £20,812 367,357
1949.. 744 12,000 8 = 42,254 112,490 479.847
1950.-176,465 12,000 10 = 53,855 110,610 590,457
Share premiums, £137,500 .. .. 727,957
Unexplained addition, £3873 .. .. 731,830
1951.. 303 15,000 12£ = 103,887 91,416 823,246
Share premiums, £47,727 .. .. 870,973
From outside interests, £7652 .. .. 878,625
1952.. 247.148 18,000 12i = 117,252 111,896 990,521
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
This enterprising 27-year-old organisa-
tion, which has always given a good
account of itself, continues to forge
ahead, expressing its faith in the future
by expanding the scope of its activities.
The parent co. at Collingwood (Vic.) and
two inter-State subsidiaries, one at Syd-
ney and the other at Adelaide, are en-
gaged in cotton-spinning, -weaving and
-dyeing and manufacture of knitted under-
wear and outerwear. A third offshoot
makes flax for tarpaulins, etc., and there
is a small property co. as well-
issued capital has increased by £550,000
over the last couple of years, making it
£1,300,000 (£300,000 of it carries a cumu-
lative 6 p.c.) at June 30 last. Of the increase
£129,546 was issued (in scrip) in exchange
for shares in subsidiaries held by out-
siders and in payment for a new factory
at Hughesdale (Vic.). The other £420,454,
which brought with it £185,227 of share
premiums, was put up in cash, the last
£IOO,OOO (one-half of it at par and the
other half at 50 p.c. premium) by Brad-
ford Dyers’ Association, Ltd., largest
thing of its kind in U.K., with substantial
interests in U.S., Canada and Egypt as
well. The allotment to the English co.
was made in exchange for technical know-
how in the dyeing and finishing of cotton
and linen yarns and piecegoods and use
in Australia of B.D.A.’s patented shrink
process, as well as the trade-mark
“Rimgel.”
Another outcome of the link-up will
be establishment of a new subsidiary,
Davies Coop (8.D.A.) Pty., to take over
and expand the co.’s dyeing and finishing
operations ; and a factory is to be erected
at West Footscray (Vic.) for the purpose.
To help meet the outlay involved, those
on the ord. register at Oct. 15 were
offered 2,000,000 new ss. ords. at par,
one for two, payable 2s. 6d. each on
application and the balance not before
March, 1953. When all of the money is in,
paid capital will* be £1,800,000, and the
pref, div. and 124 p.c. to the ords, will
call for £243,000, or £4148 less profit
than was claimed last term. But whether
the 124 P-C. distribution, of which 24 P-c-
--is labelled bonus, will be maintained
remains to be seen. Cost and other
factors are likely to press more heavily
upon net earnings in the future than in
the past. Also fresh capital, and the new
plant represented by it, usually takes time
to develop full earning-power.
There was a marked increase in group
turnover last term. But exes., including
an unspecified provision for taxation, etc.,
gobbled all the gain. The improvement
of £36,845 in net earnings was due to a
reduction in the allowance for deprecia-
tion (£83,098, down £32,237), excessive
provision having been made for the pur-
pose of recent years. The £247,148 of
profit covered the pref. div, and 24.7 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 23.5,
30.5, 29.3 and 17.7 p.c. back to 1948.
After repeating the 124 P-c. distribution
£111,896, or 45.2 p.c. of net earnings,
was ploughed back into the business, lift-
ing reserves, which also benefited by
£55,379 of share premiums, etc., to
£990,521.
No less than £704,105 was slashed off
the amount coming to trade creditors,


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIH a
OSUJ.UVAX
iV mm. «,
>57
tfis BRIS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUI. ’ WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC UOAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
64 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
T OBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28 /6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31 /6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under lib.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — lx Divorce.
TO MYRTLE OLGA EVALYN KIRKLAND
formerly of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
ARCHIBALD JAMES KIRKLAND has
filed a Petition No. 3449 of 1952 for
Divorce on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
New South Wales by the 16th December
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from F. W. REILLY,
Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES WILLIAM LIVINGSTON
late of No. 9 Little Norton Street Surry
Hills Sydney Co-Respondent.—TAKE
NOTICE that HUBERT EDGAR FOLEY
has filed a Petition No. 1500 of 1951 pray-
iing for a divorce from LURLENE
LILLIAS FOLEY on the ground of her
adultery with you If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th day of
December 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSIEURS
ALLEN & LAURENCE, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
"World
Destruction"
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?”
Braille literature also available
for the blind.
The Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
bScoicaJ
E*C*S
WHITER
SUCHAIIKjJ
sow.scqtuA
From
Scotland—
WTOmmvw
.^VFhV'kVSc.
every
precious
drop
maturkd m kou»«»
, SCOTCH WHISKY
BUCK & WHITE"
- »«»ec.AL*iii«NB*V
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOTCH WHISKY OtSTILLfiRST "
GLASGOW ft LONDON.
K OISTHURT. HUIBIN. SPf YSIM .SCOTIA**
1(0 CONTENTS I PINT 6 FLUID OZS
r 't
BUCHANAN'S
"BLACK & WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment to
the late King George VI
X II
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.. GLASGOW, SCOTLAND
JB?
sr^
TIS^
eOM'*
TIC*
SCI*
eonm 5
baG°
tU M
V
• Bit
Itftl
SSltt*
3
TRADE MARK
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED BY
DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in
America, Canada, England
and now in Australia. Dol-
cin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms
of Arthritis, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuritis, Fibrositis
and Lumbago. Prolonged
Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply
of blood and oxygen to the
affected tissues. Many thous-
ands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people
who had given up hope of
ever getting relief, are now
active again—able to> work
thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in
tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from
your Chemist.
1/121X
ARTHRITIS
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGIItf
Informative literature on
will be sent on request to
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box
G.P.0., Sydney.
Dolcin
Doldn
1 552,
while £13,203 net was added to
fixed assets, £73,651 to stocks
and £48,270 to book-debts:
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Paid capital. 741,750 1,109,025 1,291,750
Outside
interests .. 129,080 30,633
Overdraft .. 718,363 066,830 1,148,212
Creditors . 557,956 1,329,021 624,916
Tax provision 160,421 218,782 246,565
Pinal div. 33,088 71,832 82,131
Freeholds .. 422,893 414,655 441,767
Plant, etc. . . 344,973 281,666 267,757
Stocks . .1,412,250 2,360,781 2,434,432
Book debts,
etc. . . 750,705 1,191,395 1,239,665
Cash . 294 372 474
Shareholders put up £230,452
and the co. went to its bankers
for an extra £481,382. There
was an improvement of £306,164
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,572,747). The two most
vulnerable of the assets, stocks
and book-debts, are believed to
be conservatively valued.
The market priced the f.-p. ss.
ords. at 10s. 3d. last week. After
exercising the rights the net price
would be Bs. Bd., and the return
5.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The rights might prove the
cheaper method of entry into the
business. The £1 prefs. at
225. 9d. yield 5.4 p.c. Includ-
ing the new issue, net tangible
cover is '£9 6s. prefs. and Bs. 3d.
ords.
Knox, Schlapp, Ltd.
To Re- Deft-
Jne, Profit, r- Dividends, serves, cit.*
& & & &
’51..54,882t 10 p.c.t=25,000 29.882 86,891
Tax arrears, £3658 .. .. 90,549
Unexplained reductions, £857.. 91,406
’52..55,038 10 p.c. =35,000 20,038 71,368
Share issue expenses, £1667.. 73,035
* After deducting intangibles ( £112,425).
t For 10 months. %On paid capital at
balance date.
As investors, mining- and
engineering-consultants, this con-
cern was founded in 1895 by
the father of the present chair-
man in partnership with H. H.
Schlapp. It became a proprietary
in 1943 and assumed public-
company status two years ago,
when £227,260 (£lOO,OOO in
scrip) was paid for the pro-
prietary’s interests, including
£llO,OOO for goodwill. At the
same time 150,000 £1 shares
were issued to the public at par
followed in August last year by
a further 100,000 shares, also
at par, which lifted paid capital
to the present £350,000.
Since original formation the
business has expanded to include
supervision of manufacturing
activities for overseas principals,
as well as agency distribution of
general and specialised engineer-
ing lines. Head office is in Mel-
bourne, with branches in Sydney
and Adelaide; new divisions
were recently established in
Queensland and Tasmania.
Lines handled include copper
and brass tubes and brass wire
for Metal Manufactures, Ltd.,
of Sydney, specialised steel from
Sweden, compressor and pneu-
matic-tools for Broom and
Wade, Ltd., of England, also
machine-tools, diesel, diesel-
electric and steam locomotives
and other rolling stock, crushing-
and screening-plants and pump-
ing-equipment.
Import - licensing restrictions
did not materially affect activities
last term. After allowing £586
for depreciation (down £710)
and £7534 more for taxation
(£44,122), profit for the year was
£55,038 or £156 more than that
for the 10 months’ trading in
the previous year. On the higher
capital the profit return was
15.7 p.c., which compares with
an annual rate of 26.3 p.c. in
1951. At 10 p.c., which was the
nominal rate in 1951, the divi-
dend was unchanged. Undistri-
buted profits (£20,038) reduced
the deficit to £73,034, a figure
calculated after deducting in-
tangibles (now £112,425) and
allowing for certain tax arrears
and share expenses paid during
the year.
Owing to introduction of the
fresh capital the liquid surplus
(£196,780) improved by £106,416
over the year, only £5440 being
spent on plant and freeholds over
the period:
Aug. 31.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. £250,000 £250,000 £350,000
Creditors and
overdraft. . 272,874 376,158 491,480
Owing
vendors . . 45,000
Tax provision 36,588 40,006
Final divs... 25,000 35,000
Freeholds,
plant, etc. 77,283 72,744 78,184
Shares in
subsid. .. 3,000
Stock & work
in progress 85,956 90,642 98,571
Debtors .. 283,683 421,538 661,490
Cash . . 2,952 15,930 3,205
Intangibles 118,000 114,849 112,425
The debtors item showed the
largest increase (£239,952) over
the year, followed by creditors
(£135,322)’and stock and work-
in-process (£7929), which com-
prise the largest balance-sheet
item. A bank overdraft of
£20,000 was repaid and cash
holdings were £12,725 less at the
end of the year than at the be-
ginning.
Although no details are given
as to volume and composition
of its turnover, K.S. stands in a
sound trading position. The
rising-cost structure is likely
to make Australia’s industry
vulnerable to overseas compe-
tition as soon as import restric-
tions are removed; a com-
pany which handles overseas as
well as home-produced lines is
in a position to glean some trade
either way.
Mindful of this, the market
prices the £1 shares at 255.
despite their book-asset backing
of only 15s. lOd. each. At this
price the yield is 8 p.c. on the
present dividend.
Western Mining Corp.
The outlook for this big hold-
ing and prospecting co. (paid
capital £698,588 in 10s. shares)
continues to improve, especially
on the operational side. But
rising costs are constantly gob-
bling more of the gains from
development and technical
achievements. For the year to
March 31 last the co. netted
£71,439 (down £30,172), of which
a 6d. div. took £69,859. Another
6d. a share was sent out on Aug.
22, and the chanses of another
payment being made out of the
current year’s earnings are
encouraging.
The drop in last term’s profit
was due to the smaller amount
received in dividends from the
two principal contributors to the
pool, Central Norseman Gold
Corp. and Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie, each of which has been
involved in heavy capital ex-
penditure on development and
plant. Since the close of accounts
Central Norseman Gold Corp.
has paid Is. a share (W.M.C.’s
proportion £65,625) and is likely
to make another distribution be-
fore the end of March next. The
tonnage and value of its ore re-
serves have both improved, and
recent developments in the
Phoenix and Princess Royal
lease have disclosed some better
than run-of-mine stuff.
At Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
third-largest producer on the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.),
an important feature of recent
development has been the con-
sistently high grade of ore dis-
closed at depth. Since the close
of accounts 4095 ft. of develop-
ment work has been done, of
which 1211 ft. was in ore averag-
ing ll.Sdwt. over a width of 62
inches. Last term the co. netted
22 p.c. on its capital and paid
5 p.c., capital expenditure
absorbing most of the difference.
Among the other members
of the group. Central Vic-
toria Dredging, which failed
to make a maiden distri-
bution owing to difficulties
with its second (Amphitheatre)
dredge, might enter the dividend
list beforg long. Great Western
Consolidated, near Southern
Cross (W.A.), has just come into
production ; but it is too early
to say when dividends are
likely to flow. New Cool-
gardie, a high-cost producer at
Hampton Plains (W.A.), netted
£58,486, or 13.2 p.c. on its
capital, but no div. was paid,
money being wanted to finance
development.
The De Bernales group of
Westralian gold-mining cos. with
an aggregate capitalisation of
around £3,500,000 will soon be
only a memory of the gold boom
of the 1930’5. Next month the
first of the brood that passed
into the receiver’s hands is to
be wound up, and others will
follow until all join the defunct
list, whose history is one of
stormy meetings of shareholders,
proposed schemes of reconstruc-
tion, a British Board of Trade
inquiry, a London Stock Ex-
change ban and protracted court
proceedings.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
At the International Club Ball at St.
Kilda Town Hall the Governor, Sir
Dallas Brooks, and Lady Brooks walked
past a guard-of-honor comprising Irish
colleens, kilted Scots, nationals from
Poland, Holland, France, Greece and
other countries. And from the balconies
in the ballroom hung flags of different
nations.
This year China was represented
in the decor of the official table. Tall
pagodas, with light gleaming from their
tiny windows, were surrounded with
bowls of multicolored flowers, whilst in
the centre was a large glass pond on
which tiny ducks, swans and penguins
disported.
The vice-regal party was received by
the club’s president, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes. Lady Brooks wore a gown of
champagne satin. Mrs. Brookes chose
black nylon net mounted on taffeta.
# V
Jane Kirwan-Taylor, who was in the
vice-regal party, wore a midnight-blue
shantung. In the official party were U.S.
Consul-General Henry Stebbins and Mrs.
Stebbins, she wearing a turquoise-blue
satin-striped taffeta gown with a huge
scarlet bow catching up one side of the
wide skirt. Madame Gerard Sirot, wife
of France’s Consul, wore a wide-skirted
black organza gown. Madame Liu, wife
of the Consul for China, wore a national
gown in floral-embroidered royal-blue
satin. Mrs. G. W. Paton, wife of the
vice-chancellor of the University, wore
blue-and-silver lame, Mrs. L. H. Eyles
white hailspot net over gold taffeta. Mrs.
Gwen Hargrave, secretary of the Inter-
national Club, wore copper lame under
gold tulle.
# #
Commander George Gill opened the
43rd annual exhibition of the Melbourne
Society of Women Painters at the
Athenasum Gallery. He was accompanied
by his wife, artist Esther Paterson, and
introduced by the president of the society,
sculptress Ola Cohn, who was showing
some of her own work. Among those
present at the opening were Mrs. John
Phillips, in navy suit and tiny white hat;
Mrs. Jock Grierson, whose mother, Mrs.
Dora Serle, was an exhibitor ; Mrs. N. D.
Watt, Mrs. D. Ribush, Mrs. Harcourt
Smith, Sally Hardman and Mrs, S.
Howard.
# V V
Thirty young people have formed them-
selves into an auxiliary and are working
for St. Ives Hospital, which is conducted
by the Sisters of the Community of the
Holy Name. The group’s next function
will be a film night on Friday, October
24, at the Grosvenor Theatre, and is
under the patronage of the Governor.
The film is J. Arthur Rank’s “White
Corridor” and this is the Australian
premiere. Those who would like to help
along a worthy cause and at the same
time have an enjoyable night can ring
either Brian Stonier, president of the
auxiliary (WX9217), or the ticket-
secretary, Margot Tracy (8J2139),
V V &
So far as high fashions were concerned.
Guineas Day at Caulfield was a wash-
out. Biting cold winds and gusty rain
made furs, topcoats and raincoats the
order of the day. But tiny white hats and
sprays of flowers made brave defiance.
Mrs. K. McLean, wife of the vice-chair-
man of the V.A.T.C., wore a black suit
with black velvet touches and a small
black velvet hat relieved with white
guipure lace. Mrs. Harold Holt’s black
suit had for company a candle-snuffer
hat of vivid scarlet felt. Mrs. Len
Buxton’s suit was of mist-blue tweed, her
high toque in the same shade.
Mrs. Everard Baillieu topped her suit
with a white Dior “wig” hat; this was
plaited in sections and tied with a bow
at the nape of the neck. Mrs, Harold
Rabling wore a small white hat with her
grey suit and sable furs. She was accom-
panied by Mrs. J. D. Jacobs, recently
arrived from the U.S., who was in grey
suit and squirrel cape.
# # &
Many inter-State guests were at the
pre-wedding party given by Mrs. Robert,
Lane at the Hotel Australia for Betty
Bailey of Toowoomba (Q.), who this
week married Robert Lane. Mrs. Lane’s
palest-grey satin frock had a strapless
top encrusted with sequins and tiny
feathers. Her daughter, Mrs. Charles
Lane, wearing black lace over white
satin, and another daughter, Mrs.
Wyndham Hill Smith, in black tulle over
pink satin, assisted their mother in
hostessing. Betty Bailey’s navy faille
frock had a bo at-shaped neckline and a
pleated skirt. Betty’s mother, Mrs. A. H.
Bailey, chose pale-grey chiffon for her
pleated gown.
Among the 160 guests were the Lord
Mayor, Cr. W. J. Brens, and Mrs.
Brens, the latter wearing ice-blue
chiffons; Mrs. P. L. Coleman in
pastel-blue satin, the bodice encrusted
with beads and opalescent sequins; her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Kevin Coleman, in
white frock and scarlet velvet stole ; Mrs.
J. W. Ferguson, wearing white Guipure
lace ; Mrs. Norman Bennett in short black
faille frock and black lace bolero ; Mrs.
T. Jones, who wore a ruffled gold-tissue
cape over her black gown; Mrs. J.
Garrick, who covered her black frock
with a brilliant red stole, and Mrs. George
Laird, who had rhinestone shoulder-
straps on her black gown.
Melbourne Grammar School chapel
was the setting for the wedding. Betty
Halias is the third daughter of Mrs. A.
H. Bailey, of Toowoomba, and the late
Mr. Bailey; Robert Morton the only son
of Mrs. R. T. Lane, of Toorak, and the
late Mr. Lane. The brides redingote
gown of white chantilly lace over satin
had a hooped crinoline skirt with a panel
of graduated tiers of kilted nylon tulle.
Her 12-tiered tulle veil was held by a
pearl tiara, and she carried an early-
Victorian posy of gardenias and lily-of -
the-valley.
The bride’s attendant at the Lane-
Bailey wedding was Virginia Woolman,
a Canadian whom she met while on a
world tour last year. Virginia’s gown
of lilac chantilly lace and pleated tulle
featured an apron front. Her Juliet cap
was of lilac lace, and she carried an early-
Victorian posy. The ’groom had his
brother-in-law, Charles Lane, as best-
man. ,
Reception was at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Lane. Mrs. Lane wore
anthracite-grey tulle encrusted with large
pearls. Mrs. Bailey’s full-skirted frock-
was of black nylon net. Of blue-grey
silk pleated chiffon was Mrs. Charles
Lane’s frock. The ’groom’s sister, Mrs.
W. Hill Smith, wore a short bouffant
frock of banana-toned guipure lace over
matching taffeta.
Betty’s two sisters, Mrs. John Morrisey
and Mrs. R. J. Naylor, came from
Queensland for the wedding. Gold- and
pink-shot brocade was chosen by Mrs.
Morrisey, aqua-blue silk shantung, with
the fop embroidered with rhinestones, by
Mrs, Naylor.
☆ ☆ ☆
The seventh birthday of Claridge’s
coincided with the eve of Guineas day,
and the occasion was celebrated with a
gala party. More than 800 roses in shades
of pink, red and yellow, all from the
garden of the owner, Walter. Ebstein, were
artistically arranged by Mrs. Ebstein.
Each hostess was presented with a speci-
men vase in which was one lovely tulip.
Highlight of the evening was the presen-
tation of songs by Richard Collett and
Virginia Paris, of “South Pacific.”
Among the many lovely gowns were
noted the emerald chiffon worn by Mrs.
Walter Ebstein, Mrs. Philip Dare’s short
ballerina of white embroidered handker-
chief linen, Mrs. M. Copolov’s flesh-pink
stiffened net with its all-over pattern of
multicolored sequins, the pale-lilac hail-
spot organdie worn by Mrs. Dick Doyle,
Mrs. A. G. Silk’s vivid scarlet lace and
pleated net, Mrs. Constance Day’s fully-
pleated black organza skirt and strapless
top of white guipure lace, Mrs. Andrew
Manifold’s tobacco-toned faille with its
deep, full hemline and strapless top
heavily embroidered with opalescent
sequihs, and Mrs. Frank Nicholl’s black
tulle with its full overskirt of black lattice-
striped organza.
STIDNIET
The brilliant sunshine of Ladies’ Day
showed up for the first time at the Spring
meeting the beautiful flowers at Rand-
wick, the hanging baskets of rainbow
nemesia in the members’ stand, the
banks of orchids in the paddock stand
and the borders of yellow pansies every-
where.
The spring outfits (seen for the
first time, too) led one to the conclusion
that Sydney women are gradually acquir-
ing a dead-level of good taste which is
pleasant and safe but rather unimaginative
and not at all exciting. Lovely pure silk
dresses with draped bodices and
accordion-pleated skirts abounded. Their
colors were subdued, their patterns tiny
and conventional. Hats worn with them
were mostly small, white and of the for-
ward type. Large hats went from east
to west or sat straight on top of the head
—platter and sailor types.
A refreshing change was Mrs. Nancy
Monkton’s golden fluted straw, which
spread fan-like over her forehead.
Both Lady Lloyd Jones and Mrs.
Hector Livingston wore the new black
faille wide coats with small white hats.
This type of coat was also seen in bronze
and gunmetal. The rich black faille suit
seems to have ousted the tie-silk suit
which has had a very good run. Only
“Little Boy” suit seen was on Mrs. John
Minter, who looked very smart in grey
with a white Eton collar and a yellow hat.
One of the smartest women present was
Mrs. Eric Pratton, in green and black,
her tiny hat covered with green blossoms.
☆ ☆ ☆
This is Nurse Nina Poison, a New
Zealander who recently arrived in Sydney
and is completing her training at Crown-
street Women’s Hospital. When she has
obtained her certificate in obstetrics
Nurse Poison will go to New Guinea for
the Unevangelised Fields Mission. Photo
by Hugh Spencer.
☆ ☆ ☆
For the Black and White Ball, held in
aid of the Blind Institution last week, the
Trocadero was transformed into a land
of fairytale. In the centre of the foyer
blackbirds with fluted tails flitted through
snowy pepper-trees. There were white
trellised arbors with geranium cushions,
tiny brilliant birds in silver cages and
white Grecian columns trailing with ivy.
Many small tables for the official party
replaced the usual formal setting, and
color was introduced by two beautiful
Georgian couches, one ruby and one
olive, and by alabaster epergnes massed
with roses.
The dressing, though lovely, seemed
rather less spectacular than in previous
years, perhaps because more of the
dancers wore colored dresses and because
some of the most beautiful gowns had
been seen before. Lady Lloyd Jones’s
Paris model by John Cavanagh was out-
standing. Made of black paper taffeta,
with a narrow white pique cuff on the
deep triangular neckline, it featured the
new swan line. The president of the
ball committee, Mrs. Laurence Byrne,
wore a French model of black net.
First prize was won by Mrs. J. W.
Eaton, wife of Rear-Admiral Eaton —her
dress a graceful design in black lace.
Barbara Ball’s dress of bouffant white
tulle, swathed lightly with black tulle and
decorated with a trail of roses, won first
prize for the juniors. Wearing ballerina-
length dresses were Mrs. Alan Copland
and Mrs. Noel Vincent, whose black lace
achieved a 1920 look with its scooped
neckline. Elizabeth Northcott was present
in a private party with her fiance,
Squadron-Leader Russell Nash. She wore
white organdie patterned with black
squares and was one of the finalists.
'☆ ☆ ☆
It was sad to hear of the death of Mrs.
H. E. Watson, who, as Hilda Dorring-
ton, was well-known and loved in stage
and radio. Mrs. Watson will be particu-
larly remembered for her work in Aus-
tralia with the Alan Wilkie Shakspearian
company. She also acted in leading roles
in London, India and Malaya. She died
at Woolgoolga (N.S.W.), where her son,
Aubert, lives and to where she retired
in 1948. Of her other children, Joan
is living in Siam and Rex in Sydney,
☆ ☆ ☆
Certain sharp showers did nothing to
dimmish the spruceness of the St.
Aloysius cadet corps when the Governor
attended their passing-out parade on Sun-
day at the school’s Willoughby playing-
field. His Excellency stressed the import-
ance of the character-building inherent
in the military discipline of the cadets,
whilst it was fitting them to defend their
country if necessary. Also present at
the parade were Miss Northcott and
Squadron-leader Russell Nash, Brigadier
and Mrs. Macarthur Onslow, Colonel and
Mrs. Stevenson and Colonel and Mrs.
Peters. Hostess for the afternoon was
Mrs. H. L. Burgess,
# # #
One thing that has not gone up appa-
rently is the subsidy given by the Gov-
ernment for the care of deaf, dumb and
blind children. About half a century ago
it was fixed at £39 per year for each of
33 children, and there it has stayed,
although the society which cares for these
children now has 383 in its charge and
the average cost per child is nearer £250
than £39. A club called mystically the
D.D.B.C. is being formed —one guinea
for membership—to help the funds of
the society. Anyone can join. It’s a
simple way to give a hand in this first-
class work.
☆ ☆ ☆
A fire-eater is to be one of the attrac-
tions of the Indian Bazaar and Carnival
which is to take over the quadrangle of
Riverview College next Saturday. The
special children’s carnival will be on in
the afternoon from 2 p.m., and there
will be a barbecue at night. An interest-
ing exhibition of Indian work will include
hand-made lace and handkerchiefs.
President of the committee is Mr. Justice
McClemens. Vice-presidents include Mrs.
Rachel McGirr and Dr. C. G. McDonald.
The function is in aid of the Australian
Jesuit Mission in India, to which eight
new missionaries will set out in a month’s
time. /
☆ ☆ ☆
It was comforting to hear from the
public-relations officer of the Water Board,
Mr. L. Montague, that Sydney stores
more water per head of the population
than any other city in the world and
twice as much (per head) as New York.
Mr. Montague said this during an
interesting talk to members of the
English-speaking Union on Thursday,
when the hostesses were Mrs. R. Bale and
Miss Thelma Yeo. Mr. Montague said
that schoolchildren often write for infor-
mation to the board, one lad requesting
a booklet on “The Dames of Sydney”!
The next meeting of the E.-S.U. will be
at an American-tea tomorrow at the
home of Mrs. Alex Keeling, when the
hostesses will be Mrs. C. Spender, Mrs.
C. Taylor and Miss A. Scott.
☆ ☆ ☆
On Melbourne Cup night (November
4) sorrows may be assuaged or luck
celebrated at the Horseshoe Ball at the
Trocadero. In aid of the Spastic Centre,
the ball has for president Mr. Justice
Maxwell and for vice-president Lady
Braddon. Tickets are a guinea each.
☆☆* . ,
The annual dinner-dance of the Sancta
Sophia Association is to be held this year
at Carl Thomas’s restaurant in Macquarie-
street, on Thursday, October 30, Ex-
students of the college cah arrange parties
or come along by themselves, as the dance
is generally regarded as a reunion. Dinner
is from 7-8, "but dancing will continue
till 1 a.m. Tickets are a guinea ; proceeds
in aid of the Scholarship Fund.


SUNDRY SHOWS
Talkies
“Cesar”
Many, many years ago the
main problem of Friday after-
noons was the business of rais-
ing a zac to pay for the privilege
of watching Tom Mix, Hoot
Gibson or Buck Jones. The most
difficult part of the extraction
was finding of an answer to the
inevitable question: “Why d’you
want to see that ?” There was
no answer, of course, only
tongue-tied fear that the zac
might not be forthcoming, a
state of mind that made the
handout seem doubly bountiful
when it came.
But how easy it would be to
answer that question today in
relation to “Cesar,” at Sydney
Savoy. In the first place, it
probably represents the last
opportunity to see the incom-
parable Raimu (he was killed
in a car accident in 1946), that
bumbling, fumbling mountain
of amiability who, on the sur-
face, would appear incapable of
emotion, yet who, with the sim-
plest and smallest of expressions
and gestures, can let you feel
the cruellest of pain, the richest
kindness and the sunniest
comedy.
Second, of course, the film is
the final chapter of Marcel
Pagnol’s trilogy of life on the
Marseilles waterfront —here old
Panisse (Charpin) dies and his
wife, Fanny (Orane Demazis),
must tell her son, Cesariot (A.
Fouche), that he is not the son of
Panisse but of Marius (Pierre
Fresnay), son of Cesar (Raimu);
Cesariot goes to find Marius,
Marius comes to find Fanny and
all the ends of the great story
are simply and movingly tied off.
Pagnol, who wrote, produced
and directed the trilogy, must
surely have claimed his place in
the Maupassant-Chevallier line
with his observation of people
and life with an eye that rarely
separates comedy from tragedy
but surveys both with a rich
blend of wit and compassion.
Take, for example, the death
of Panisse, with his friends
bickering and squabbling around
his bed about inconsequential
things ; or the scene shortly after
where Raimu poses the question
of a God with a fat black belly,
eight arms and speaking only
Chinese; or the emotions hidden
but conveyed in the awkward
simplicity of the meeting be-
tween Marius and his son ; or the
pure comedy of the group wait-
ing for someone to kick the hat
with a cobblestone under it; or
the wit and swift clarity in the
almost Shavian analysis (through
Marius) of the tangled affairs of
all of them.
Consider any one of those
scenes, or others in the film, and
remember that they were con-
ceived, written and directed by
the one man and there is only
one answer: genius. And, when
you add to that the simple,
living performance of Raimu
himself.and, close behind him,
Orane Demazis, Charpin, Pierre
Fresnay and, indeed, most of the
cast, you have a film, the whole
trilogy in fact, which must be
pretty close to the best that the
screen has ever offered.
“Hotel Sahara”
Peter Ustinov, who played the
perplexed Italian no - hoper.
Private Angelo, in the Linklater
film, gives a similar study in this
English production at Sydney
State. He is a worried Arab
hotelier whose luxury hotel in
the middle of the Sahara desert
is invaded in turn by Italian,
British, German and French
soldiers, who requisition his pub
and lay siege to his sweetheart
(Yvonne de Carlo).
Lovingly though she is put
together. Miss de Carlo’s seduc-
tive Arabian belly-dance would
raise not even an eyebrow at a
church fete; Ustinov’s per-
formance is rather a triumph of
casting than of acting ; and the
four or five officers who take
over the pub and try to take
over Miss de Carlo in the name
of Britain, Germany, France and
Italy are all perfect English
gentlemen, acting with the re-
straint and certainty of the best
modern English comedy.
But what matchless comedy it
is! No laugh loud enough to
obscure it; no feeling too deep
to drown it; no plot enough to
be obvious—perhaps, with after-
noon tea, Britain’s greatest con-
tribution to civilisation.
♦ ❖ ❖
“Clash by Night”
Passions roar up to double
fortissimo in this Clifford Odets
story of a burly, good-natured
fishing-trawler skipper who, find-
ing a cuckoo in the connubial
nest, sets about rectifying
matters in the only way he knows
—by his strong right arm.
Good performances by the
three principals, a really capital
bit of character work by J.
Carroll Naish and splendid sea-
side photography lift the film to
a cut above average.
Barbara Stanwyck is the
cynical, disillusioned woman
who, failing to conquer elsewhere
in the field of financial love,
returns to her native fishing
village, and, inherently restless
and dissatisfied, marries the
skipper to get security and hop-
ing that she will change her old
ways. She doesn’t, and the
town’s movie projectionist is
about to help himself to the rest-
less one, then he finds his neck
between the mariner’s outsize
hands.
Miss Stanwyck never piles on
the agony, Paul Douglas as the
skipper steers safely through the
melodramatic shoals and Robert
Ryan is completely natural as
the intruder. Marilyn Monroe,
billed as the Hollywood bomb-
shell, fails to explode.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pat and Mike”
Spencer Tracy and Katharine
Hepburn make quite an amiable
business of this M.-G.-M.
comedy about a woman athlete
who excels in a whole catalogue
of sports and a slightly shady
promoter who, once satisfied that
she isn’t “an escaped fruit-cake,”
sets about promoting her and
himself into the money.
The comings and goings of the
plot are contrived by the fact
that Miss Hepburn has a fiance
with eyes like a hungry dog;
whenever she is about to send
one down the fairway or serve
an ace the gaze from these optics
so affects her that she slices into
the jungle or belts it into the
net.
The Hepburn-Tracy combina-
tion established itself long ago
as a most pleasant comedy team,
and there is nothing in this to
alter that standing. St. James and
suburban Metros.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Carrie”
Theodore Dreiser’s novel
comes over as rather heavy
melodrama in the film version,
currently offering at Sydney
Prince Edward. Jennifer
Jones is the simple country girl
who comes to Chicago and
whose love destroys Hurstwood,
the well-to-do hotel manager
who falls in love with her. Miss
Jones’s performance is beautiful
but artless, and Laurence
Olivier’s portrayal of Hurst-
wood reminds one a little cruelly
that Shakspeare is the more
talented member of the Shak-
speare-Olivier combination.
Miriam Hopkins, as the trap-
mouthed and -souled Mrs. Hurst-
wood, and Eddie Albert, as the
brash salesman, give the film its
most convincing people.
❖ *£*
“Flesh and Blood”
This James Bridie story tells
of a Scottish general practitioner
who brings up the illegitimate
child of his sister and a family
friend. In her turn the girl
bears in wedlock a child by her
lover, whom she poisons when
he tries to blackmail her. She
suicides and the old g.p. takes up
the burden again, but this time
picks a winner—the child turns
out to be a brilliant medical
research-worker and saves a
country from a virulent epidemic.
The film is not as involved as
it might seem, and Richard
Todd’s Scottish accent would
satisfy any Glaswegian. Glynis
Johns, as the girl with faith in
the grandson, moves with quiet
“ Wouldn't it!"
speaking and serene ease through
the later proceedings and Andre
Morell’s g.p. is sound. Under-
statement, in the best British film
tradition, is a great help. At
Sydney Esquire, .
❖ ❖ *t*
“I Found Joe Barton”
This half-hour thriller, “the
first film made in Australia for
world television screens,” is the
first half of the programme at
Sydney State. It is also the first
Australian film, except a chil-
dren’s fantasy, in which this re-
viewer did not groan, mutter and
wring his hands in sympathy
with producer and actors.
Of course, no one could make
an Australian film without pre-
liminary shots of the Bridge and
the Harbor, or without showing
a wallaby and a goanna escaping
as an American private detective
sought his man in the jungle a
few miles from Sydney; but the
necessary koala was tastefully
exhibited as the plaything of an
American entrepreneur in his
luxury flat, and the story was
crisp and to the point.
The entrepreneur had come
to Australia to find an American
crook and get him to sign per-
mission for his name to be used
in a film of his exploits. The
familiar faces of Lloyd Birrell
and Charles Tasman are not yet
familiar enough with the screen
to take it casually; but they, and
the rest of the Sydney cast, did
well enough to make one think
that if Australian film-produc-
tion were to start at this ABC
end of simple shorts, it might
do much better for itself than by
making ambitious flop after am-
bitious flop. After all, that’s
how Chaplin started.
Artbursts
Victorian Artists’ Society
In its spring exhibition the
Victorian Artists’ Society mixes
realists, surrealists, impression-
ists, expressionists, post-impres-
sionists, abstractionists, contrap-
tionists, artists who try to paint
what they see and artists who
try to paint what they don’t see.
The quality of a picture is a
property of the picture and not
of its surroundings, and Lesley
Sinclair’s two excellent land-
scapes, “September by the
River” and “Newhaven,” lose
nothing by being in the vicinity
of the less sensitive statement
concerning Victoria Docks by
M. McChesney Mathews. Nor
does Madeleine Jorgensen’s “Still
Life” look any the less solid
through having as its neighbor
the more evasive “Queen-street”
of Ludmilla Meilerts.
Gunars Salins, Gunnar Neeme
and D. Svirak are New Austra-
lians who have picked up some-
thing of the Australian accent,
and Voldemars Brants’s “The
Rains Come” gives back some-
thing of the effect of a dull day ;
but Louis Kahan’s portrait of
George Bell is in the nature of
a cartoon.
Rosemary* Ryan’s “Two-
dimensional Still Life” is possibly
the best of the abstractions, and
the staring-eyed child in Myra
Gould’s “Matrix” stands out
among the portraits. Though
a bit confused, W. E. Millane’s
“Oliver’s Hut” shimmers, and
there is some quality of fresh-
ness in Helen Minchin’s “The
Bluff,” Joan Malcolm’s “Hast-
ings” and Dawson McDonald’s
“Back Street, Fitzroy.”
There is freshness, too, in the
“Country Road” of John Far-
mer, and Esther Paterson’s
“Saturday Afternoon, Collins-
street,” gives back a great deal of
its subject despite excessive detail.
Sonia Skipper’s “Espadress”
is an excellent piece of still-
life. Monty Grover’s daughter,
Lorna, has felt something in “Old
Gardens, Chelsea,” and so have
Aileen Dent in “Autumn After-
noon,” Dorothy Stephens in.
“Tiger Lilies,” Ron Crawford in
“Carrum Beach,” A. W. Quinn
in “Blackburn Bridge” and A,
F. Howells in “Winter Morning,
San Remo”; but the only thing
felt in Ola Cohn’s sculpture is
the fashion.
Arnold Shore, Laurence White
and R. Malcolm Warner have
some fresh examples, and
Charles Bush gets vigor into a
study of native children.
❖ ❖ ❖
There is nothing to stir the
imagination in Leonard French’s
amiable abstractions at the Peter
Bray Gallery, Melbourne. Mr.
French paints in styles fashion-
able 30 years ago in Paris; his
abstractions are like most of their
kind except in the matter of size.
but size is not important. A
Corot can say more in a space of
Bin. by 6in. than most other
artists can say in Bft. by 20ft.
Stage and Music
“Playbill”
Dell Mylne and Lloyd Thom-
son, with producer Alan Burke,
combined to make Canberra
Rep.’s presentation of Terence
Rattigan’s “Playbill” the society’s
best effort for many years.
The first of the two plays,
“The Browning Version,” was a
model of, interpretation and
production. Lloyd Thomson, as
Andrew Crocker-Harris, was
restrained and movingly
pathetic, and he handled the
breakdown and recovery with
perfect conviction. Dell Mylne,
as Millie, was good as the bad
wife, but not quite so convinc-
ing as the abandoned lover.
lan Pratt was tense and sug-
gestive as Hunter, a brilliantly-
conceived part, for in Hunter’s
reactions we see the horror of
the relationship that Andrew
and Millie have come to accept,
Nicholas Webb, as the boy Tap-
low, the innocent in the death-
house, set the play going well.
After the catastrophe of the
first play, “Harlequinade” came
as a complete contrast. It was
good to see Dell Mylne and
Lloyd Thomson completely at
their ease in a farce that is really
gloriously relaxed. The frenzied
coming and going of the action
is enough to test the smoothness
of any production, and the
society came off well. There
were some gems: Ruth Inall
and Peter Knox as Muriel and
Tom Palmer in search of their
“Dad” did riotously well, and
Michael Wilson as the harrassed
Jack Wakefield kept a sane and
convincing head in the midst of
chaos.
It was also gratifying to see
director Alan Burke at work
upon a play and players respon-
sive to his talents.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Miser”
For its second presentation in
the current season at Hobart
Royal the National Drama Com-
pany offered Miles Malleson’s
adaptation of Molifere’s
“L’Avare.” There is more of
Malleson than Moliere in the
adaptation, and even less of
Moliere in Reg Gillam’s pro-
duction, which sacrifices satirical
farce to broad burlesque with
only occasional success.
William Carr’s watercolor por-
trait of the miser Harpagon con-
trasted strongly with the poster-
paint pictures of most of the
other players. Exceptions were
Harry Starling, who sparkled as
the rascally servant LaFleche,
Ernest Leitch as the misguided
cook - cum - coachman Jacques,
and Lyle Martin, who made a
brief but captivating appearance
as the clerk to the Justice of
the Peace. Peter Norton was
rather dull as Cleante, the
miser’s son, and his costume was
appalling; on the other hand
June Brown’s Frosine was over-
played, although she 'used a
charming voice to good effect.
Generally the production
lacked subtlety, and there were
too many meaningless and elab-
orate moves in a play where
broad purposeful movement is
essential.
+♦+ ❖
Bainton and Rabin
When Dr. Edgar Bainton and
Michael Rabin stepped forward
to acknowledge the wild ap-
plause which greeted their
Queensland performance of
the Glazounov concerto, they
brought to mind the once-popu-
lar Landseer “Dignity and Impu-
dcncc.**
When this concerto was origi-
nally performed the composer
chose a boy prodigy, Mischa
Elman, to present it. Rabins
performance with the Queens-
land Symphony Orchestra would
probably have delighted the
composer.


HOME LIFE ALLAHABAD
By ETHEL ANDERSON
THE Crown Prince had hazy
ideas' about women, but he
was well aware that he
enjoyed their acquaintance.
Like the amateur art critic, “he
knew nothing of the subject, but
he knew what he liked.” He
had quite definitely “liked” the
Bifrmese.princess. Feeling in his
pocket for the ring meant as a
present for her birthday (of
which she had not neglected to
tell him), he attempted to appear
less astonished.
On arriving at the Winter
Palace he had found this beau-
tiful lady standing in full sun-
light in a sun-scorched marble
arena, in the act of accepting
a handsome gift two
“presentation” stallions. As
a cavalryman the Crown Prince
could appreciate the worth of
these Arabians (from Catti, he
was told), although, for him,
their trappings discounted it.
From their ears soared triple-
tiaras of herons’ plumes. Adorn-
ing their glossy necks, straps, at
four-inch intervals, had, pendant
from them, brass disks imitating
sunflowers. Coming up from
between their forelegs a bro-
caded sash tied to the bridoon
hung, fringed, to their hocks.
Their saddles, peacock-hued,
stuffed like feather-beds, had,
dressing them, chains of tinsel
bells strung together —a glisten-
ing, hobby-horse effect. Above
the pommels rose bunches of
scoured wool and feather—'their
use? Problematical! Unless
. . . were they whisks? To
keep off flies? Or were they
just sheer la-dee-dah? It was
impossible for him to say.
The horses themselves were
quiet, doped certainly. Their
handsome heads drooped, their
superb legs were straddled out
stiffly like the matchsticks of a
toy.
Blue - coated, blue - turbaned,
muskets nipped under their arm-
pits, their guards, nevertheless,
stood with drawn swords shoul-
dered on each side of them.
Holding their astonishing bridles,
their grooms, in white, had at
their waists leathern water-bags ;
they had come from Udaipur,
and the stud champions were a
wedding gift to the Princess, who
was soon to marry a reigning
Maharaja ; a very big shot.
In front of a plantation of
karhag-trees—the largest kind
of strawberry-tree—broke several
muslin waves gobbed with
black, the garments and dark
faces of the watching retainers,
several hundred of them. Be-
hind the Princess her body-
guard, looking like red ninepins
pegged on black mounts, were
motionless. Even the pennons
of their lances hung inert; there
was not a breath of air stirring.
The Crown Prince, running an
experienced eye over men and
horses, could find no fault. “As
good a show as any we could
put up,” he thought, as he con-
sidered the eyes fixed on
futurity, the black beards rolled
on strings (or round a quoit of
sorts) shadowing their chins ; the
chests of an almost womanly
abundance. «
ON recognising with surprise
her visitor, whom she had
invited to come, but had not
expected (having heard “tales”),
the Princess, dimpling, had
dipped him a roguish curtsey,
but she continued to carry
out the ritual for the acceptance
of gifts.
Her retinue, noticeably an
uncle, whose attendants held
over him a State umbrella, an
aunt and seven or eight cheeky
girls—cousins, as he guessed —
who were dressed a lAnglaise,
and wore red twill aprons gar-
nished with zigzags of white
braid, together with the many
Court officials, had remained
very properly aloof; it was not
their business to receive so dis-
tinguished a visitor. They had
at once guessed who he was, his
Royal Highness having been
much photographed during his
Indian tour.
The Crown Prince had met
the Princess at a party of which
he had but a dim recollection.
He remembered very well, how-
ever, bow immensely taken he
had been with her, a delicious
morsel of biscuit-tinted por-
celain, not less seductive in the
hard glare of the sun than she
had been in the red light of the
fete lanterns. He had been mis-
led, probably, by the exigencies
of her national dress into think-
ing her something less civilised
than she was. “1 did not tell
him I had been to school in
Paris, or that I had sunbaked
on the Libido, as my uncle calls
it,” the Princess had informed
her aunt. “To him,” she had
laughed, “I was almost ‘Hum
Golly!’ Evidently he could not
place me.”
The Princess had been wear-
ing on that former occasion
what was, obviously, a sole piece
of thin silk wrapped tightly
round her interesting hips and a
strip of rosy velvet compressing
her still more interesting bust;
and there had been so much of
the Princess offered for his en-
joyment that it was hardly un-
natural that he had been led
astray. His presence today set
the seal on former indiscretions,
and he had brought the jewel-
lery, his gift, in the hope that
so generous a beauty would not,
on this occasion, return him
thistles for figs.
The Prince’s appearance had
presented to the aunt, his
hostess, many baffling features.
To refuse to receive him, as she
had at first felt inclined to do,
might have caused international
complications. Yet, after the
young man’s outrageous in-
fringement of all the rules of
decency, after his much-dis-
cussed oafish intrusion into the
harem of the most powerful
Maharaja in India, an escapade
of which all India was at that
moment talking, no Indian
household could entertain the
Royal guest without, giving
offence to that already incensed
ruler; or indeed to any ortho-
dox Indian household.
To arrive, unannounced and
unattended, and apparently on
foot, and in so dusty and
dishevelled a state!
It was hardly to
be endured! “How-
ever long he lingers,
the aunt whispered
to her niece, “I shall
not offer him a
bed! I have your repu-
tation to consider! If
you were to be talked
about what would his
Highness the Maharaja,
your already jealous
fiance, say?”
I OOKING about in
J—' wonder, the Crown
Prince found the Winter
Palace incredible! It was a place
out of dreams, where anything
might happen!
“Is this little shack of yours
the work of some hilarious
architect? Or of a dentist?”
Joining the Princess on her dais,
and interrupting the ceremony,
which bored him, the Prince,
standing beside her, inclined an
ear.
“Oh, of a cook, I think!”
The Princess paused only an
instant in her flow of Persian
compliments. “I think it is like
nothing so much as a collection
of wedding-cakes, elaborately
iced.”
His Royal Highness’s giggle
became troublesome.
“Or of a bee! ” He gazed
at the myriads of honeycombed
cells, the lace-like marble or
malachite octagons, piled tier on
tier and rising from a plethora
of courtyards, all built at dif-
ferent heights and angles. “It’s
like something out of a bee-
hive ! ”
Again he was convulsed by
the nervous laugh that meant
nothing.
A vermilion sun, tree-high,
Was doing its besj against some
darkening turquoise. Night was
approaching, but the sky had
come to no decision. Would
it be red? Would it be yellow?
All was in the melting-pot.
I ATER, in the peculiarly-
-I—' shaped, somewhat octagonal
dining-room, whose many win-
dows, triple-arched, looked as if
some giant with perfect teeth
had bitten them, the Prince was
fed with Burmese, or perhaps
Indian, food; first an unripe
poppy-head wrapped in pease-
meal and fried in butter, a deli-
cacy which he ; rather liked,
though it left him nodding;
next, dailam, a dish composed
of rice, vetches, meat artd
vinegar and served with a sauce
of ground coriander seeds and
mint. Following these dishes
came pillau, kabobs, paratras;
all incomparably rich! Eating,
surrounded by the relatives,
whom he wished at Jericho, the
Prince was forced to listen to
the uncle, a one-man conversa-
tionalist.
As he drank a potent liquor,
a toddy distilled from succory
or endive (the history of which
the uncle gave him), he found
himself increasingly bemused,
while his host insisted upon him
committing to memory the
twenty different names for
bastard-saffron and made him
a party to his concern over
having been traced by a deer,
“which trotted, behind me —a
most unlucky occurrence—on
my journey herewards.”
“Conceive my perturbation!
There was I, on my elephant —
an all-innocent! Behind me,
stalking with menace —a spotted
deer! This, please it you, in the
chief street of Allahabad city!
Sir, this animal’s black influence
dominates at this instant my
horoscope. Only my Court
astrologer, only he alone, will
find the right, the ineffable
assuagement of this wicked
influence, this threat to my peace
of mind and my august life!”
The Prince did not resist
temptation ; he rarely did.
“You seek an imaginary cure
for a fancied danger? How can
you prove, Sir Sri, the reality of
the danger which —as you say —
threatens you?”
“Prove it? Of course I can
prove it —by analogy!” From
a Buhl cabinet that stood against
a black-and-silver wall Sir Sri
took a book. “Observe!” He
held it open at the first page.
“It is here, inscribed with the
name of the King of Cock-
roaches. You see it?”
“If you say so!” The laugh
became unmanageable.
“Well! There it is! Kabikaj,
King of Cockroaches!”
“His autograph?”
“No, no,” testily. “My
librarian writes it! But doubt-
less you will allow that no
cockroach has eaten this book
—or tome, as you call it?”
“I can see that.”
“Very well! That is because,
out of respect for their king, no
cockroach ever will eat a book
so inscribed!” Sir Sri put the
book back in its place. He
looked triumphant. “All my
books are so enriched. None of
my books have been eaten by
cockroaches! What do you say
to that? ElT?”
“Wonderful.”
“So it is!”
Pleased, the uncle beamed
round the table at his wife, his
niece, his eight daughters, his
Royal guest.
He felt he had proved his
point.
“To prevent ill-luck, after
having been traced by a spotted
deer,” he continued, “I do
wisely to consult my astrologer!
My Court magicians all hail
from Kamrup, for to that
school alone did the prophet
Daniel impart his secrets. He
was a great warlock, a great
necromancer, as you say, and
to Kamrup he communicated his
art of divination by sand.
Though, perhaps, in Germany
you prefer the older method of
divination by the sheep’s liver?”
He gave his convulsed guest
a penetrating look.
The long - drawn - out meal
finished, the uncle withdrew “to
prick up my ears at my
astrologer,” as he put it.
HIS host’s absence brought
the Prince no nearer to his
longed-for tete-a-tete with the
Princess, for the aunt, fearing
that her guest (as she told him)
“could not cgrry his liquor,”
immediately proposed an ad-
journment to the drawing-room,
a huge and hideous apartment,
in the centre of which (her social
ideal being tliat of a seventeenth-
century French salon ) they sat
in a ring on stiff silver-filigree
chairs upholstered in green
plush ; and here the aunt took
up the wondrous tale.
Some thirty uncurtained arch-
ways let in the moonlight, which
was reflected in the walls of the
looking-glass fronting them, for
each pillar had its mirror inset,
and in these opposing reflections
the circle sitting on the green
chairs was multiplied in dimi-
nishing repetitions into infinity,
their every movement flashing
out through these vistas like
beams from an arc-lamp. Such
multitudinous images did away
with all sense of privacy ; it was
not at all cosy.
The lights from the stars, too,
intruded with the moon, and the
hundreds of candles burning in
the glass-dropping chandeliers
intensified all lesser illumina-
tions.
With complete assurance that
her every word must be of inter-
est to him (her listener’s own
kingdoms, powers and glories
having for her no tangible ex-
istence), the aunt, chatting
away, told the Crown Prince of
all her nursery worries.
“My seventh daughter, dear
little Amelia, is delicate! lam
giving her a prescription of
collyrium and crushed pearls.
Do you think it wise? Or does
your Royal Highness consider
that the old-fashioned tonic of
split cubebs, spikenard, mace
honey and oak-apples would be
of more use to a growing girl?
The child is only four, poor
pet! ”
Her hearer was wracked with
laughter.
The two elder girls walked
round the group offering dishes
of pistachio-nuts and mountain-
almonds, while the ladies lit their
cigars and begged the Prince to
smoke, and presently five of the
elder girls went off to the other
end of the vast room to play a
game of Shindy or Racket with
ivory balls and hockey-sticks.
But still the aunt twittered
brightly on.
To call the Princess a pocket
Venus, to conjure-up visions of
the midget who traditionally
—stood on a man’s palm to be
toasted, or of her more minute
Parisian rival who danced (they
say) on two extended hands,
would, her admirer considered,
watching her, merely belittle her
charms: she was not a dwarf,
but a woman. As he listened
to the aunt, he found the nieces
physical beauty of more and
more absorbing interest. It was
as entrancing as a symphony in
which not a note was falsely
played.
“She’s as pliant as the spathe
of a date-flower swaying in a
(i Continued on page 22)
RAIN IN GLENROWAN
An Irish rain is creeping round,
Seeking a Kelly ghost;
Up screes it moves, and searches
still
Behind each granite crest.
A mist dissolves the crags
As paper wraps up stone;
(But to paper comes the knife
As winds bleach the bone),
As the dead believe in life,
Believe in the Warby Hills;
Lost in the rain, they’ll come
again.
When the sun rain’s shadow kills!
The shorn sheep huddle in the
fine,
The folding rain, and cry:
Since Kellys went, both Ned and
Dan,
The crows as often fly;
And shearing is a surer way
Of getting gold today
Than robbing banks and shooting
folk
In the old Glenrowan way.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


ssasfsasi
M
t
\
r V-.
Ka
g -X r
apf *#» -w s’*”'’’* 9 **
& j
>**
i
V9V
..■■■*
■
m
YZ
H
It
■
.
H
■fi
*:v
07,
m
. :•
T% < '>
;• . -'f
V
< 5
/ 3
** ■
*
m
a
in
r
&*£**&
■
.
»
p?
•V’' ■-■-
Ji
’, ■
***
m
*m-'
-
. ~>*e
A
s
**>
WHY WASTE IT? . . .
A farm a week instead of a farm a year
can be cleared ty modern methods .
Rugged “International” Crawler Tractors
and matched equipment enable this
result to be achieved. Our urgent need is
for development of huge tracts of virgin
country for Primary production and
absorption of new population. Only by
modern methods of land development
can we balance our overseas trade and
continue to settle new migrants so urgent
for Australia’s prosperity and
strength in the future.
Australia has a primary duty to the
people of the World to produce
food in increasing quantities in a day when
food production is falling at an alarming
rate. Too much time has been lost already
but mighty machines will enable mighty
plans to be implemented and with
proper planning, food production, migration
and trade balances can be revolutionized.
Industrial Sales and Service are the
distributors in Australia for “International”
industrial crawler and wheel tractors with
matched equipment. Contact the ISAS
office in your State for full particulars
of the equipment that is being used
to speed our National Development,
'A
c
THROUGHOUT RUSIRRLIR
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE
Robinson Rd.,
Geebung.
SYDNEY
16 Parramatta Rd.,
Lidcombe.
MELBOURNE
Power Street,
South Melbourne.
ADELAIDE
Daws Road,
Cudmore Park.
PERTH
Belmont Avenue,
Belmont.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER
N333/1.041


visas’,-.
«fe
'
r«S#
vOk.
y
Frenzied peasants attack sky monster
Pads, 27th August, 1783
ONSIEUR MONT-
GOLFIER’S first
hydrogen balloon,
released on the Champs de
Mars in Paris, came down at
Gonesse. Excited rustics
mistook it for some mon-
strous devilish beast and,
encouraged by two monks,
attacked it with pitchforks
and flails until it was quite
deflated. The tattered re-
mains were tied to a horse’s
tail and dragged away.
We can imagine M. Mont-
golfier’s statement to the
Press. “This shows how far
aviation has to go before
flying machines become
commonplace. When they
do, of course, proper
arrangements will be needed
for their reception. And
somebody will have to in-
vent the BP Aviation service
to refuel them quickly and
efficiently.”
SERVICE
AVIATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
An Associate of Anglo-Inanian Oil Company, Limited, England.
sea-wind,” he mused, enchanted,
as she bent over one child to
retie a slack sash, or over an-
other to reset one of the cir-
cular combs which, worn across
their foreheads, confined their
straight hair.
Certainly they were drawn by
Tenniel! Almost he expected
to see a kitten, a lizard, a cheap
top-hat, priced 11s. 6d.
“Evidently she is fond of the
macabre relations,” he con-
cluded.
With him her methods were
direct.
Secure in her chaperonage, she
invited him to free an eyelash
from the fringes of a sparkling
eye, her face, held up for his
ministrations, being doll-like in
its want of expression. He tied,
by request, her sandal-string, a
wild civility rewarded by a
glimpse of such toes as he had
not believed possible. “Pearls!”
he whispered to her, really ex-
cited ; he had seen nothing like
them.
“Do you think that his High-
ness the Maharaja, my fiance,
will also admire my toes?” the
Princess asked him wistfully,
and, coming very close, she
begged him to refasten the clasp
of one of the sixteen ruby
bangles which encircled her
tender arm from elbow to
shoulder —her only ornament.
It was perhaps a felicity that
the Court astrologer now ap-
peared, coming into the room
with a busy air through the
serrated archway into an ante-
room where several members of
the Royal bodyguard were to
be seen in waiting.
“I must apologise for appear-
ing in my working dress!”
The Court magician smiled
whimsically.
“Ashes! And, for the Test-
er —Kipling has hit it off very
well, I think!” Rising, the
Crown Prince shook hands, a
little too heartily. “Balliol?” he
queried.
The astrologer looked
offended.
“No, New College.”
Again the giggle evaded sup-
pression.
“His Highness has had the
dust-covers taken off several of
the thrones in the Hall of
Audience, and he thought you
might be interested in such
things?”
“Oh, delighted!”
The Crown Prince went off
with him, and was to be heard
saying as they traversed the
ante-room, “As one human
being to another, could you get
rid of the chaperone and allow
me even five minutes alone with
the Princess?”
THE ladies, as the Prince
vanished from sight, ex-
changed with one another a long,
lingering look of deep meaning.
“And not one word about the
chemist’s wife !”
“The gay deceiver!”
“Poor thing! I saw her at the
ball at the Chuttur Munzil
Palace, the Umbrella Palace, in
Lucknow! My dear! She wore
a dress like a ballerina from
Le Lac des Cygnes! In white
tulle entirely encrusted with
diamente! And what was
almost a crown! She’s as dark
as a Bhil and as nimble as a
nautch-girl. He has taken her
everywhere, and forced respect-
able people to receive her like
Royalty—such cheek!”
“She came from the shop at
the corner of the Mall, in
Lahore. The Prince went in,
they tell me, to buy corn-
plasters, for which the members
of his suite (being all cavalry-
men) refused to ask. And there
she was!”
“Oh, that dear, queer little
‘emporium for medicinal herbs,’
the last in India to have huge
bottles of green- and mauve-
colored water in the window. I
know it well!”
“She has the morals of a dove
and the assurance of a district
visitor —such complete conde-
scension! Standing beside his
Royal Highness at the reception
she shook hands with me and
smiled at the person following
me. How quickly they pick it
all up! ”
At this moment the girl
Mamilia, running across to tug
(somewhat dangerously) at her
mother’s skirt, cried, in excite-
ment, “We peeped out through
the lattice, and there, in the
courtyard, we saw hundreds of
policemen.”
Hurrying out on the airy
eyrie, constructed of honey-
combed marble, which did duty
as a balcony (hundreds of which
were plastered like swallows’
nests all over the palace walls),
the ladies craned their elegant
necks. Yes, there they were!
Indubitably the palace was sur-
rounded.
But the children soon grew
tired of watching the stationary
figures, lathis in hand, who were
placed at intervals round the
courtyard, and returned to their
play “on the seashore of end-
less worlds,” sleepy, but deter-
mined to keep awake.
The ladies leant on the
parapet.
Brilliant moonlight flooded
the white cupolas, towers and
minarets of the ancient building.
It picked out the curiously-
wrought circular, rectangular,
octangular structures, all lifts
at different heights far up into
a star-scattered sky, shadowless
here, there with the lace-like
pattern of a balustrade thrown
against a dome, or the shade of
a dome cast in darker diapers
of grey and dun-color against
some shaft of wall or tesselated
pavement.
A few windows only still
showed lights.
IT was the stillness of the
1 night that caught the breath
in wonder. The light was as
hard as sunlight, but it appeared
to be static. There was not a
moving cloud, not a wandering
breath of air. Only the scents
from some hidden garden,
travelling upwards, cloyed the
senses of the watchers with an
eastern intoxication of champak
flowers and jasmine, a heady
fragrance. The blossoms of
some ancient paulownia-trees
and gold-mohrs that traced
their arabesques against the
dazzling palace-walls had each
their own distinctive and dis-
turbing aroma.
“Cruel! Cruel! ” murmured
the Princess. “Though we are
here in exile I love it! It is not
home! No, it is not my home!
It is not Mandalay, or Mergui!
It is not Tired Hill or Pillow
Mountain! Oh, no!” Nostalgi-
cally she sighed. “But I love it
all the same. It spells safety!
As for my affianced husband,
dear, if you have heard any-
thing pleasant about him, let me
hear it. I need reassurance! ”
Her aunt, the Lady Sri, smiled
sardonically. She had heard all
this before. The Princess had
not met her future husband:
this was her way of extracting
information. .
“I have been told that his
Highness has never left the
remote and barbarous country
he governs —they tell me very
badly!” . ,
“And how disastrous! ln e
fruits, the mistakes, the betises.
of his jejune experiments in
living—let us say —will all be
within call! This may often
occasion some awkwardness. 1
have been told,” the Princess
peered up at the relentless
moon, “1 have been told he is
‘about’ forty. Everyone con-
spires to keep his actual weight
a secret from me, but I believe
he turns the scale at sixteen
stone. Nothing I have heard
about him attracts me in the
least. Frankly, my dear aunt,
lam terrified! How I shall ever
manage to hold my own in his
alien company I cannot imagine.
I shall sink, I fear, to the rank
of fifth subsidiary concubine,
and die of poison within a year.
The Princess laid the ash from
her cheroot neatly on the marble
balustrade, and, stooping, blew
it into space.
“I shall go out like that,” she
murmured sadly, “and no one
will know or care ; he least of
all!”
Her Highness the Lady Sri,
the aunt, had the defeated look
of a baronet’s wife who had
only borne daughters, but this
was deceptive; she preferred
daughters, and was already plan-
ning brilliant matches for her
octette.
“Look at your uncle I”
The Princess blinked.
“My uncle?”
“Yes. You are aware that I
remain the sole feminine
influence in his much-tempted
life?”
“Indeed yes, dear aunt! Such
devotion!
“You ask me how do I, an
ageing woman of twenty-three,
who has given her husband no
son, you ask me how do I
manage to keep my authority as
his only wife?”
“Darling! I would love to
know! ”
HT HE aunt, glancing about her,
1 drew closer to her niece.
On looking round she had ob-
served that the guard in the ante-
room had been doubled.
“Swear that you will never
betray me?”
“I swear it!”
“Well, dear, I rule him throng"
his passion for astrology. I pa.'
the Court astrologer exactl.'
double what your dear uncle
gives him to tell him exact!}
what I wish him to be told. D°
you understand? I dictate
answers to all my husband s
questions about his horoscope-
When his eighth daughter was
born, and you know, dear, they
THE GUMTREE
The scrub about it slants like resting brushes,
Dark, wary, Australian, bearing a white ghost of dust
From tired roads and creekbeds. Above, with the sun,
The many moody moments of the parching continent run.
And here’s the canvas that the lonely bush has reared.
Its day, its hero, temple, altar . . . all
That men may see it, and let pity fall.
This'bush, the sprawling, sad, grey, voiceless l° rm
With green parrots for eyes, purple lowries for blood,
Red rosellas for lips, this dragon-haunted wild,
Through which on twisting diamonds writhes the snake,
This mile of myall, dogwood and sheoak
Were about the earth from whence this column broke;
The tall tan tree with violet splashes on it,
Soft purple saddles, and, dryly drawn along it,
A golden form with green grapes in its hair.
Skirts of maroon with many opals there.
Broad, flat and yellow, through the scrub the track goes by.
Up into the ranges where the falls are dry;
And there dies about the huge and silken tree.
Hourly, a giant magnificent poetry
Australian; its great soul , ,
Expires to the roots, and lives again, phoenix-like and whole.
Harshly above, among dry flowered boughs
Blue shield-winged eagles form a threatening house.
Grey stones toward the tree s thick knuckles rolled
As though it had been Goliath of old,
And from a sling toward a silent host
Flung those aged stones that might remember most.
The country chimes in color all the hours.
Purples in rivers, aeon-blue in flowers, ,
Dead yellow on the earth, while in the scrub, the heath
Clangs redly all the hours that run beneath.
In the soft inscrutable honeyed bells
The day lies thirsting for yet deeper wells;
Or a great death and a love of greater and a cry,
“All, all is Australian, even now, as I.
And of the wish of the soul, only the tan tree
In golden, leathery, purple pageantry.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


Now in Book Form
Illustrated by Norman
Lindsay with over 40
superb pen-drawings
Obtainable at bookshops, or
at “The Bulletin” offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or
Sydney. Or post-free from
The Book Department
“The Bulletin”
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
7/6
e L etters
Henning
Instant, Positive Protection against
every type of FIRE RISK!
H
A “SIMPLEX” OR “LUX” FOR EVERY TYPE OF FIRE RISK
g
'V 1
SIMPLEX
C & D
R
■I |
(A) "Simplex" Auto Type Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC). Capacity: 1 quart.
For motor lorries and cars, lift motor rooms, small electrical switchboards and
other electrical risks.
(B) "Simplex" Stored Pressure Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC) ' Type. 1-gallon
capacity. For targe electrical installations, telephone exchanges and similar risks.
(C) "Simplex" Foam Type, 2-gallon capacity. Specified for all highly inflamm-
able liquids and materials when, in case of fire, a blanketing effect is desired.
(D) "Simplex" Soda Acid Type. 2-gatlon capacity. For all general fire
protection purposes. Install in offices, factories, hotels, halls, farm buildings,
theatres, homes.
(E) "Lux" (Hand) Carbon Dioxide Gas (CC2) Type, 12-lb. capacity. Has no
damaging after-effects. Particularly specified for protection of switchboards,
electrical motors and apparatus, and certain inflammable hazards.
To kill fire
effectively,
ecach type of
fire requires
a different
extinguishing
technique
“Simplex” and “Lux” Fire Extinguishers
are self-contained units, ruggedly con-
structed, foolproof. Each does a specific
job. At your office, factory, engineering
shop, warehouse or store - on farm or
station —in your car, truck or yacht
they’re always ready for instant, positive
action in an emergency. “Simplex” and
“Lux” Fire Extinguishers are approved by
all Government Departments, and used by
the Navy, Army and Air Force.
SIMPLEX and "LUX
n
HAND FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
hf
Manufactured by
WORMALD BROTHERS
INDUSTRIES
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
With Offices and Works at Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Wellington, Auckland,
and Branch Offices at Broken Hill, Orange, Wagga,
Geelong, Ballarat, Townsville, Darwin, Dunedin, Christchurch
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES:
KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LTD. s; STEELBILT LIMITED
say it is most unlucky to have
eight daughters?—well, directly
his horoscope was read and he
learnt that his eighth daughter
would be the means of gaining
him an immense fortune (and
you know we are very hard up
at the moment), he was imme-
diately and completely recon-
ciled to her birth! ”
“You astonish me! How
clever of you! But I have not
your talent. I could never invent
so brilliant a device for keeping
my power over my husband.”
“Oh, you will! You will!
With your back to the wall, as
they say, you will evolve the
most fascinating ways of defeat-
ing your rivals. Do not worry! ”
“No,” mourned the Princess.
“No, I could never d <p it. lam
obtuse. I am not the vigilant
type. I never see what is com-
ing to me.” She blew a puff of
blue vapor from her cheroot
into the scented night-air, “I
shall vanish like that.”
“You are thinking of the
chemist’s wife.” The aunt was
untouched by these plaintive
words. “That woman will re-
turn to her husband. From his
manner I should guess that the
Crown Prince has already
bundled her back. *She will
entertain the chemist with the
most enthralling anecdotes. She
will be a personage—in Lahore.”
“But her heart? Her po*or,
broken heart?”
“People of that sort have
nothing so banal.”
Still, the Princess, though she
sighed again, most pathetically,
felt somewhat comforted, all the
same. The aunt was known
to be a very wise woman. Since
that legendary moment when the
moon (as her pedigree testified),
stooping from heaven, had, with
Oc Counne Narine, the local
Endymion, and Keeper of the
Elephants to Noah, conde-
scended to produce her first
ancestor, the women of her
family had always been clear-
sighted, “moon-eyed,” as it was
called.
“I think I hear”
The ladies forsook the moon-
light.
IN the drawing-room (where
1 some waiting women now
attended them) the eight chil-
dren, lying in rather beautiful
heaps on a floor made of wood-
blocks patined in gold and sil-
ver, were abandoned to slumber
so deep that it was almost like
an illness.
“A cat dreams all night of a
fat sheep’s tail.” Laughing, the
Lady Sri looked tenderly down
on her eight daughters, “What
do they dream about, I won-
der?”
Emerging from the less dazz-
ling lights of the ante-room into
the extreme brilliance of the
salon came the Crown Prince,
of course laughing. His “Tell
me, shepherd’s” air seemed to
hint that some arrangement had
been entered into with the
Court astrologer, and the Prin-
cess, catching his blue, trium-
phant eye, shivered slightly;
undoubtedly she had led him
on. She had a premonition that
in teasing him she had, perhaps,
gone too far; there might be
something to pay.
The astrologer, who now wore
an Oxford blazer and a
Leander tie and what he re-
ferred to as “my grey bags,” im-
mediately joined the aunt. Talk-
ing to him, she had the air of
giving the day’s orders to her
gardener; one expected to hear,
instead of the murmured “Of
course, in the third mansion of
the m00n....in trine of Mars
....Jupiter in Aries?” —the
words which in reality drifted
from their neighborhood—talk
of “calceolarias.... a bed of
lobelias.” As a matter of fact
the magician (from Kamrup and
New College) was getting his
directions about Sir Sri’s next
horoscope: the “spotted deer”
was under discussion.
Seeing his chance, the Crown
Prince took the Princess by the
elbow and walked her out on
to the balcony, where they leant
side by side.
Daylight was creeping over
the eastern sky.
Below them the white mists
that usher in every Indian dawn
stirred and dissolved. Cocks
crowed. The brain-fever bird
began its' increasingly insistent
shrieking. A family of hoopoes,
crested and striped like foot-
ballers, flew about on the flat
roof of a lower tower. Far off,
across the river, as it seemed, the
skirl of pipes told of some High-
land Regiment’s route-march.
The air was cool.
“The moon, my ancestress, is
still in evidence,” remarked the
Lady Sri wickedly, joining the
pair on the balcony.
“I am the slave of heaven.”
Sir Sri, coming out to join the
group, put an arm through his
wife’s and whispered into her
ear.
“Brinda, dear, I am afraid
you might catch cold! We will
return to the salon,” her aunt,
after listening to him, said
crisply; and she waited till his
Royal Highness had preceded
her through the door. They had
just reseated themselves in that
neat and petrifying circle when
a clink of spurs, a movement of
feet, a sound of voices came
from the ante-room. •
A moment later Sir Douglas
—the chief of police—entered,
together with some four or five
of the senior members of the
Crown Prince’s staff —Teutons
all.
SIR DOUGLAS saluted the
Crown Prince, who, rising,
looked extremely put out.
“In the past twenty-four
hours your Royal Highness has
very cleverly affronted the whole
population of Oude, and also
those Talakdars who had spent
a hundred thousand pounds on
the entertainment held in your
honor last night, from which,
without any apology, you ab-
sented yourself. This act of
rudeness merely finishes the
work you began last week when
you forced your way into the
Maharaja’s harem a thing
never yet done by any English-
man, either in peace or war.
The fact that you asked your
English hosts to receive the lady
who travelled with you—an in-
sult to them, as your Royal
Highness was very well aware —
is the third of the immediate
reasons that his Royal and
Imperial Majesty gives for can-
celling your Eastern tour and
directing your immediate return
to him. You will accept these
orders as coming from his
Imperial Highness, with whom
the Government has been in
communication by cable, di-
rectly it was found that you
were missing.”
He folded up the cable he had
been paraphrasing.
The Crown Prince became
quite helpless with laughter.
“Honestly,” he said, “I find
this really funny!” And when
he got his breath back he added,
“We’ll all get a good laugh out
of this once your tempers have
cooled down.”
With Sir Douglas he went
round the circle thanking his
hosts “for an amusing evening.”
He paused a moment in bowing
over the Princess Brinda’s hand
to slip a diamond-and-sapphire
ring on her finger, saying, “Well,
at any rate you shall not be
defrauded of your birthday
present —and you will realise,
now, what sacrifices I made to
see you!”
“Sacrifices!” the Princess ex-
claimed in her soft voice.
The Crown Prince went off
jovially, taking Sir Douglas’s
arm to ask, still laughing, “what
on earth was it like, that terrible
show I had the wit to avoid
attending?”
THE noise of the Royal and
Imperial laughter, the click
of spurs, had ceased to sound,
even in the ante-room, and the
Crown Prince and his staff (they
in their handsome uniforms,
their full dress, for they had
come straight from the so-
expensive entertainment which
had been offered by the Talak-
dars of Oude in the Crown
Prince’s honor) had vanished
from sight, but the Princess
continued to look with curiosity
into the half-lights of the ante-
room.
“Who,” she asked, a little
breathlessly, “who is that ex-
tremely handsome young man
standing there” . . .
“Where?” asked the aunt,
wilfully obtuse.
“There, waiting in the ante-
room with such a silly smile on
his face?”
“Oh,” the aunt looked through
the serrated archway. “Him!
Oh, my dear child — can’t you
guess ?”
THUNDER
On a day of thunder
I sat and watched this hour of heavy freedom
Knowing that this dry shaded grass was time-bound
Not that its brittleness must stay within me.
Here on the sandy ridge grew gnarled bush-apples
Heavy with bees and shade, and faded thoughts
Crept from the sun-white plain, sudden below.
Which, shooting its eight-foot grasses skyward from black
cracked soil
Fled outward, rolling desperate, wind-dry lake
(Where is the thunder of the ridges?)
Till the neat blue-black mountain edges caught it.
The swallow circles above. The owl is hiding.
Only the lizard and the grasshopper crouch for company
Under the windmill.
(There is the thunder once again. It may portend
Bitterness ... Is it behind?)
Why should'that oak-tree recall
The black creek flood, the river reaches
Merging with unquiet seas to muddy deeps
Wherein the only fronds are likewise green?
That shadow
Comes from behind;
Not like those clean dark patches on the white parched plain;
It catches at me;
Now it reaches the ridge edge,
Crawls over the grasses,
Extends towards the very mountains;
Though there is still blue above them,
It is not for us.
There is no comfort
In that chill clutch.
The anti’ feet
Pause, then scurry.
In the dry darkness before the rain.
In an hour of thunder
I stood and watched these strange familiar places,
Wondering what oak-crowned king could thus pretepd;
Shall the drained lake reveal the palace ruins;
Did that pale bird portend to these harsh things?
N.S.W.
E. CEE.


Elements of an Industry. . •
No. 9 of a aeries
'-*dSfcs-
O
K
rr\
c
o
COPPER - Next to iron, copper is the most useful metal in
the world today. Millions of miles of copper wire and cable
carry the electricity that drives motors and transmits messages
from one end of the earth to the other. It is made into fireboxes
for railway engines and, alloyed with zinc or ilickel, into condenser
tubes for steam generators in power houses and ships. Alloyed
with, zinc, copper forms brass, which has a thousand uses from
curtain rails to cartridge cases. Alloyed with tin, copper becomes
bronze, the alloy that makes springs, statues and heavy duty
bearings. Copper was the first metal used by primitive man as
he emerged from the Stone Age. When the Romans came to
Britain, copper was already being widely used in the form of
bronze. Today in Australia the principal copper mines are at
Mt. Lyell in Tasmania, and Mt. Morgan and Mt. Isa in Queensland.
In this country ICIANZ uses large quantities of copper in the
production of sporting ammunition, slide fasteners, and agricul-
tural chemicals for the treatment of seed grains. In England ICI,
the largest producer of wrought non-ferrous metals in the British
Empire, manufactures vast quantities of copper and copper alloys
in a multitude of forms ranging from printing rollers to coins.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
hfgh
L. 2VB. 1522"
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
f
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses,
iimiHHHuaag
AND SONS’
PTY. LTD. '
WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK
By CHARLES E. HULLEY
VOU must know that Mr.
Kasadias owned a
restaurant in one of the
more cosmopolitan of
Sydney’s inner suburbs. Mr.
Kasadias had come to this
country as a young man with a
wife, a thriving ambition and
little else. He began waiting
table. By hard work, he rose in
time to be a head-waiter and
finally set up in business for
himself. It was touch-and-go
whether he would survive the
depression, but after that he
never looked back. Now, indeed,
he owned no fewer than three
restaurants about the city,
though the Athens remained
nearest his heart because it had
been his first, and he continued
to manage it himself.
As the years went on Mr.
Kasadias made many new
iriends. Those who had been
unable to rise with him found
themselves politely snubbed, and
murmured that wealth had
turned his sleek, handsomely-
greying head. His silk shirts
were made to order, and he
affected restrained butterfly ties
and expensive pin-stripe suits.
During the war he had acquired
the cocktail habit from the
Americans, and preferred to
dress for dinner because he
thought it was the correct thing
to do. This is the sort of man
he was; a nouveau riche, a little
nervous still in the face of good
breeding, and a terrible snob.
He had a son, Demetrios.
If, having wined and dined
moderately well at the Athens
under the watchful eye of Mr.
Kdsadias, you were to cross the
street and stroll back towards
the city for a block or so you
would come upon another
restaurant. The Acropolis was
smaller than the Athens and
specialised in cheap, pleasant
meals for the working man.
Here you would find
none of the discreet
privacy of Mr. Kasadias’s
establishment, but the
food was delicious and
the company varied and
bright,
Like his more spec-
tacular rival, the pro-
prietor, Mr. Pangalos, had
begun with nothing, but
there the resemblance
ended. He had not pros-
pered greatly. He was
a fat little man easily
moved to mirth. Indeed
his laughter would bubble
up uncontrollably, agitating vast
rolls of fat until he quivered
and shook all over, while
the perspiration streamed
down his round, swarthy face.
He was a carefree, easygoing
creature, something of a scamp,
who never pretended to be one
scrap more scrupulous than he
should have been. His pink
shirts, his violent pomades, the
brown suede shoes he wore with
his dark suit hinted that he was
not a gentleman. But Mr.
Pangalos would have told you
that gentlemen to him were
anathema, and especially old
Kasadias; and that no gentle-
man alive or dead had or ever
would have a daughter like his
Daphne.
Demetrios kasadias, at
least, would not have
quarrelled with him there. His
father had given him three years
in Europe, whence he had
but recently returned. “To see
the old country, and teach the
boy there’s-a more in life than-a
makin’ money,” Mr. Kasadias
would explain, and, becoming
confidential, “also to get-a the
wanderlust out of his blood.”
The decisive meeting had hap-
pened at a reception at the Greek
Club. Demetrios was smitten at
first sight, and as he realised who
this divine being was his rapture
grew. Daphne Pangalos was a
fragile little thing. * She had
great dark eyes that seemed to
melt with admiration when they
looked at you, delicate features
and a flawless complexion. Soft,
dark hair foamed about her face
in an artless profusion, and the
effect was so attractive you
tended to forget it had obviously
been planned. Despite her
fragility Daphne had the figure
of a goddess, she was a thrifty
girl, too ; quite without social
ambition and, furthermore, an
excellent cook. She embodied,
more or less obviously, most of
the virtues a man might reason-
ably expect in a wife. Demetrios
could not take his eyes off her.
Lines he had been forced to
memorise as a child returned
unbidden and with an unfamiliar
passion: Thy hyacinth hair, thy
classic face, thy Naiad airs have
brought me home, to the glory
that was Greece. Demetrios
clasped his glass of sherry in
ecstasy. Fill high the bowl with
Samian wine ! Our.virgins dance
beneath the shade —I see their
glorious black hair shine . . .
Demetrios became incoherent.
He was Byron, Ulysses, Orpheus,
he was young Alexander on the
threshold of new conquests.
Desperate seas of Attic emotion
yawned and swallowed his reason
in a gulp, with never a ripple to
mark or mourn its passing.
Daphne for her part noticed a
large, phenomenally ugly young
man, built like a prizefighter,
whose features had the quaint
asymmetry of a Meryon gargoyle,
regarding her with unwavering
admiration. It would be untrue
to say she had hitherto been
unaware of his existence. He
was the sole reason for her
presence at the club that night.
An eddy of the crowd swept
them together and stranded them
alone in a corner. The noise
of excited chatter as they stood
silent became suddenly deafen-
ing.
Poetry and, alas, fluency
deserted Demetrios in his hour
of need, and he was forced to
venture a remark on the warmth
of the evening.
Daphne shouted “What?”
although she had heard perfectly
well.
He raised his voice slightly
and suggested that the party was
a splendid one.
She said “Oh. Yes, it is warm.
Byt men wear such ridiculous
clothes.” And, glancing demurely
away, “You haven’t been giving
the party a great deal of
attention.”
Suffering acutely from that
confused state of mind which
demands worship and at the
same time satisfaction, he smiled
—a peculiarly attractive smile,
she thought, despite his uneven
teeth —“Was I staring at you?
Of course I was,” he amended.
“Who wouldn’t? You can’t"
really blame me, you know.”
Daphne changed the subject.
“The Consul has aged, don’t you
think?”
“He’s worried. You can’t
blame him. There’s a lot of
unrest at home. They say the
Government isn’t secure —it
never is. Everyone seems to
welcome a political coup d’etat,
and the Cabinet is only banished
to the islands, where they all
have villas anyway. Then there
are always the rumors that
troops are massing at the
Albanian border. I’ve not been
long back,” he explained.
“How interesting,” she said,
effectively dismissing the topic.
He cried “Why, I don’t believe
you even remember who I am!
Demetrios Kasadias. Surely you
remember ...”
She puzzled her brow for a
moment. “Of course —Demetri
from up the street. Nice to see
you again. There’s someone I
simply must speak to. Excuse
me.”
In despair Demetrios watched
her flutter calmly away. Glad
to be rid of him, he decided.
BUT later, when she sought
him out humbly to beg a lift
home, his elation knew no
bounds. Once she made him
stop the car, and in breathless
silence they watched a sickle
moon drifting above the quiet
sea. A breath of wind lifted a
whisp of her hair across his
check. Childlike she laid a hand
on his arm and whispered
“Queen Isis. How exquisitely
beautiful she is.” Educated, too.
Demetrios had an endless fund
of affectionate good nature, but
even his father could not have
called him highly intelligent.
Daphne intrigued and distracted
the poor fellow until he was not
even sure that she liked him.
She developed incomprehensible
moods when all the sorrows of
the world seemed to weigh on
her spirit, and it almost broke
his heart to be unable to comfort
her. Then in an instant she
would become laughing and gay
and a wholly delightful com-
panion. She would soothe and
encourage him, suddenly to
retreat into herself again, leaving
him puzzled and confused. In
other words she could twist him
round her little finger; and their
relationship was conducted
entirely on her terms. Soon they
were seeing each other every
week and then twice a week.
Inevitably one night the ques-
tion of marriage cropped up.
Daphne threw her arms round
his neck and murmured “Silly
Demetri, of course I’ll marry
you. If you hadn’t asked me
soon I would have asked you.”
Later she discussed the matter
with her father.
“Sure, there’s a lot to be said
for marrying well,” agreed Mr.
Pangalos. “But are you sure
you’ll-a be happy?”
She said “He’s really very
sweet, daddy. Besides, he loves
me to distraction—and I think I
love him.”
Mr. Pangalos shrugged: “All-a
right. All-a right. I couldn’t
keep you for ever, I suppose.
This Demetri of yours, he’s not
very beautiful, but he probably
looks different to you. He’s not
very bright either, I don’t think,
but that won’t make him a worse
husband. His father is the fly in
the ointment and he-a got the
money. Run along to bed,
though, and don’t worry about it.
Your papa, he’s a shrewd old
man, he work something out.”
A T this moment a very dif-
** ferent scene was being
enacted within the panelled walls
of Mr. Kasadias’s study.
Pale with rage, Mr. Kasadias
strode up and down before his
son. “You’d pick up a better
class of girl in the streets!” he
shouted. “You could drag one
out of the gutter and it couldn’t
be worse. They’re all the same
those-a Pangalos. Cheap as-a
dirt, the whole pack of them.”
“Daphne is different,” raged
Demetrios, also losing his
temper.
“Dirt cheap, that’s-a what they
are.”
“You haven’t even seen her,”
“I don’t have to see her. I
come-a to a new land, new home,
better class of people. I might
as well have stayed where I was.
But no. I-a work. I slave. I
give-a you education, a-school-
ing, a-travel, all-a that money
can buy I give you, and where
do you go to find company—the
feesh-shop ? Come-a home
smelling of fried feesh. Well, she
needn’t expect a penny from
me.” >
“She doesn’t want a penny
from you,” roared Demetrios,
now beside himself.
“Don’t-a shout at your father
like that. You’re-a quite right.
Not a penny. She doesn’t want
a penny, she wants the lot.” Mr.
Kasadias threw back his head
and laughed bitterly. “All-a my
work. All the worry. Why not
save-a myself the trouble?
What’s the use of it all?” Mr.
Kasadias shook his clenched
fists at the ceiling. “I should
break every bone in-a your
ungrateful body. My fine-a son.
The apple of my eye. I bring
him up to ease-a my burdens;
not-a to bring down my grey
hairs in sorrow to the grave,”
thundered Mr. Kasadias, becom-
ing biblical in his wrath.
“I’ll pack my bag tonight.”
“That’s, it. Pack-a your bag.
The ship’s-a sinking, so the rats-a
leave. Oh, it’s a wonderful good
son I’ve reared. Break-a your
father’s heart. Hold him up to
{Continued on page 30)


DO YOUR OWN
GALVANISING
Cheaply—Quickly—Safely
with the
"McCoy" Complete Galvanising Outfit
NOTHING PROTECTS like galvanising. Now I You can
galvanise your own IRON, PIPES, NETTING, etc., for
3 pence a square yard. It’s easy to see that the “McCoy”
Galvanising Outfit can SAVE you hundreds of pounds.
The "McCoy” Galvanising Outfit is supplied complete, there
are no extras to buy. Just unpack it and go ahead and
start galvanising, by following the easy instructions supplied
with every kit.
So simple to use, a child can operate it. Does first-class pro-
fessional job. A "Must” on every Farm, Station or Orchard.
Not a “gadget,” not a “catch,” but the “real McCoy.” A
dinkum galvanising outfit that pays for itself hundreds of
times over.
Send for yours now! All orders prompt delivery.
The Complete Outfit only £4/15/2
Free Freight Passenger Train for quick delivery to you.
If you live near an airport we’ll send yo ( ur outfit by Free
Air-freight.
You need the “McCoy” Galvanising Outfit.
A hundred and one uses on every property.
Please Add Exchange
Sole Australian Distributors
MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES (AUST.)
1 ALBION PLACE
BOX 844 G.P.O. SYDNEY
Australian Historical Sketches
THE STORY OF
aralanaa
By M. H. ELLIS
IT is difficult to tell how far
foreign to their experience
the first colonists found con-
ditions in Australia. Op
their first landing (as Elizabeth
Macarthur wrote) everything was
new, “every bird, insect and
flower”; “all was novelty to be
noticed with a degree of eager
curiosity, and perturbation,”
which subsided into calmness
only after a while.
They found the land not only
strange, but resistant. While
native shrubs, trees and flowers
round Sydney Cove flourished
“even to luxuriance” and their
“lively tints afforded a most
agreeable landscape,” the new-
comers soon decided that alb the
beauty was literally on the sur-
face and that the soil seemed to
prove “to be most wretched and
totally unfit for growing Euro-
pean productions.”
It was all very peculiar, and not
the least strange product of the
new continent was obviously
Man. He was quite different
from any other man the most
widely-travelled of them had seen
—and most of the officers had
seen a very large part of the
habitable globe.
He was nearly naked. He
wore dingo-teeth in his hair. He
lived under bent sheets of bark.
A spear, a wooden sword, a
stone axe and fish-gig formed
his implements. He existed on
fish and small animals. His was
not a “very gallant people.”
When he walked abroad his
womenfolk walked humbly in
the rear, unless there was hard
work to be done, when they were
always in the van.
The natives held themselves to
themselves, showed distaste of
white-man’s food, anger when he
invaded their bora-grounds or
interfered with their fishing or
stole their precious weapons as
souvenirs. And, though they were
in mortal fear of firearms, this
did not deter them from killing
individuals whom they marked
down for having robbed them or
invaded their sacred territories.
The Government’s attitude was
benevolent, distinguished by a
desire to respect aboriginal rights.
But to the convicts and soldiery
Binghi was just an evil-smelling
animal and nuisance, to be
treated accordingly.
The position which soon arose
out of killings by natives and
attacks on property—which the
natives did not in the least un-
derstand, being pure commu-
nists—soon made it necessary
that an attempt should be made
to bring some of them into the
settlement, learn their language
and viewpoint and establish a
friendly and permanent contact
with the tribes. To do this called
for stern measures.
Accordingly, on the last day
of 1788, Lieutenant George
Johnston of , the Marines and
Lieutenant Ball of the Supply
were to be seen approaching the
inner beach at Manly in a boat.
The local citizens were gathered
there in some force, no doubt
headed by the mayor, who was,
like the rest, without his robes
or any other vestige of costume.
The visit of the white strangers
was anticipated with pleasure,
for Brother Binghi had already
learned that men in uniform, as
distinguished from the convicts,
were generally kindly fellows
who doled out hatchets and
mirrors. Local indignation was
therefore hot when it was dis-
covered what 'treachery was
afoot.
Lieutenants Ball and Johnston
stepped daintily ashore, ap-
proached the gathered multitude
with breath held to keep out
the local odor. Picking on two
likely-looking savages, they and
their men proceeded to drag
them to the boat.
Their astonished captives did
not go willingly. They resisted
with the lithe slipperineSs of
carpet-snakes and all the strength
that panic could muster in them.
Pandemonium broke out. Spears
filled the air. Shots were fired
over the heads of the natives.
The official visitors escaped only
by the skin of their teeth with
a single prisoner, a squirming
human eel yelling like a banshee.
With some difficulty they tied
him up in the thwarts and set
out for Sydney Cove.
Presently he became quiet and
lay shivering in his bonds, no
doubt expecting the worst. He
was still shivering when they car-
ried him ashore at the Govern-
ment Wharf in the face of a
curious crowd.
They led him up the hill to the
Governor’s unfinished cottage,
where he jumped like a grass-
hopper at the astonishing sight
of somebody popping a head out
of a second-storey window, and
even higher when his escort sud-
denly pressed his Excellency’s
doorbell.
Finding that his captors had
no malign intentions, he now
began to calm down, and it was
possible to view him in his natu-
ral state of temper. He was a
well-set-up man, about 30 years
old. His face, when it ceased
to be a large yelling cavity,
proved to be distinguished by
“manliness and sensibility.” His
voice was soft and musical and
he laughed easily.
In fact, he seemed to find
civilisation consistently amusing
after he had recovered from his
first nervousness. When he had
watched others going through
the process he agreed to have
his hair cut making a tasty
meal off its inhabitants during
the operation and his beard
shaved. He showed gratitude
when a shiriing ornament was
clasped round his ankle, but was
outraged when he discovered
that it was to be attached by
a rope to the wall at night, to
prevent his slipping away.
+ +
Domestic fowls set him
bubbling with amusement, and
though, at first, he was terrified
by the settlement’s dogs, he very
soon found an affinity with
them, and they followed him
round in droves, no doubt
thinking the rich fishy smell of
him as good as a square feed.
He was not impressed by the
fact that he was a permanent
guest at Government House and
allowed to eat in the same room
with so historic a figure as Gov-
ernor Phillip, and that he had a
hut of his own, with an
attendant whose duty it was to
keep him from running away.
He took kindly to civilised
clothes, though there was some
difficulty in teaching him to wipe
his hands at meal-times on a
towel and not on the seat of his
trousers. His natural good-
Letter to The Bulletin from C. Price Conigrave, general secretary. Royal
A ustralian Historical Society :
“This Society has noted with much pleasure the innovation you introduced in your
last number of The Bulletin [24/9/’s2] in the form of a feature devoted to Australian
history. This is very encouraging as being an indication that the strong historical sense
which we believe is growing in the community is to be catered for by your valuable
paper. All connected with this Society desire to congratulate you on your decision in
this regard, as we believe such a feature will be very greatly enjoyed by a large number
of historic-minded people throughout the Commonwealth.
“The fact that the initial article of the feature has been written by Mr. M, H. Ellis,
an honored Fellow of this Society, makes it additionally authoritative and worth-while,
and with such a great deal of our interesting history awaiting presentation to the public
by your great paper we wish you long-continued success in your new phase of policy.”
Mr. Price Conigrave thus touches on a point worth emphasising—that the articles
in this series by the author of “Lachlan Macquarie” are authentic Australian history.
manners dictated to him the ex-
pediency of imitating such
strange local customs as bowing
to ladies and raising his hat to
authority, which was dredging
him like the Bulolo sands for
native vocabularies and endeav-
oring to impress on him the
kindly intentions of the Govern-
ment towards his compatriots.
He was fastidious. Nothing
would induce him to touch either
alcohol or salt-meat. But he
soon proved that captivity had
not sapped his, appetite. Indeed,
the Governor must have sighed
with relief at the thought that
he had only one captive to feed
instead of half-a-dozen, for as
a trencherman his guest was a
whole army in himself.
+ +
Starting with a light breakfast
of “eight fish each weighing
about a pound,” he would stow
away another two or three
pounds by way of a midday
snack and loosener-up of the
stomach-muscles in preparation
for dinner, which was his real
meal of the day—say, a couple
of kangaroo-rats and another
three pounds of fish.
Before long Arabanoo - he
had at first been called Manly—
was an institution in Botany Bay.
Surrounded by frolicking
hounds, followed by children,
making profound obeisances to
officers and ladies, he wandered
about living the life of Riley.
Within four months he was so
much part of the community that
they took the manacle off his
ankle and let him go free. There
was no danger of his running
away. He was proud of his
standing and shrewd enough to
know which side his bread was
buttered on.
Officers to take him on
expeditions, hoping that through
him they would penetrate the
iron curtain of native life, show
the brown locals that they meant
no harm, and make it safe to
walk half-a-mile out of Sydney
Town along native tracks with-
out a gun.
It was at this stage that the
plague-month of April, 1789,
began.
Nobody knew where the
trouble came from. Without
warning the hitherto healthy
native population round Port
Jackson developed a mortal epi-
demic of smallpox. Biackfellows
were seen in their canoes with
strange sores breaking-out on
their faces. Pathetic family
parties were found dying on
beaches, bewildered by what had
happened to them, unable to fish
or hunt. They were “without
a single palliative.” They
perished like flies.
The settlement officials did
what they could, though it was
not much, and in the doing of
it they made use of Arabanoo,
who proved himself fearless,
gentle and kindly.
One day they found two little
groups on a distant shore across
the harbor: a dead woman and
a little girl; a dead child whom
Arabanoo buried with his own
hands with great tenderness ; an
old man who lay shivering by a
fire of little sticks, while a small
boy about eight years old poured
water over his head.
To these last, as they brought
them in to be succored at the
hospital, the native captive, who
was now proud to be called
white-man, showed “the kindest
attention.” They fought hard
for the life of the old man. It
was Arabanoo who persuaded
him to take the strange medi-
cine ; Arabanoo who reassured
him in his strangely-enclosed
surroundings, who fed him and
fussed about him. But it was
hopeless from the beginning.
The patient sank gradually as he
lay, turning his head every little
while to gaze with pathetic
affection on the face of his small
son.
At length he was still. The
boy said, unemotionally, “bd-ee”
meaning dead. Surgeon White
led him away gently and
made him a member of his own
household. Mrs. Johnson, wife
of the only chaplain in the
colony and herself already the
possessor of a healthy quiverful
of eight lusty pledges to her lord
and master, adopted the small
girl who had been rescued,
A few days afterwards Ara-
banoo himself began to develop
blotches and blisters on his skin.
They had let him run greater
risks than they might have done,
because a pitting of his counten-
ance had led them to believe that
he probably had been vaccinated
by having recovered from the
disease at some earlier period.
Time proved this theory wrong.
On May 18, 1789, four months
and 18 days after he had been
forcibly introduced to civilisa-
tion, he died and they buried him
in the Government House gar-
den, with Phillip himself stand-
ing with bowed head beside his
grave.
He is not so well remembered
today as his successor, captive
Bennelong—or Bennilong, Ban-
nylong, Benelong, spell it accord-
ing to taste —whose name appears
on one of the points of Sydney
Cove, the other being named for
the saifitly Lieutenant Dawes,
who had tried in vain to investi-
gate his beautiful sister’s religious
beliefs. For Bennelong, captured
fishing on a beach with his friend
Coieby, lived long and lustily,
his sft. Sin. of height making him
“tower over” his fellows, his 34-
inch chest, 3(H-inch waist and
10-inch biceps worthy of the
age’s most noted native warrior,
sworn enemy of the Cammeray
tribe and of female virtue.
Even if he had not had an
18-year-old sister whose frontal
contours Captain Watkin Tench
esteemed as having “firmness.,
symmetry and luxuriance,” Ben-
nelong would have been a per-
sonality as he strutted the settle-
ment, playfully kissing a lady
here and there —or even a Naval
officer, for he once kissed Lieu-
tenant Waterhouse, R.N. —toast-
ing the King like a retired col-
onel and displaying his wounds,
which included a severe bite on
the hand from a lady with whom
he had debated about love. His
name will live as that of the
first native to travel home to
London with a Governor and to
travel back, shivering, three years
later with another Governor.
But with all his color and
fire, his naughtiness in pranking
and his technique in hammering
his wives, Bennelong can never
take away from the gentle and
martyred Arabanoo the credit
of having been the first Austra-
lian to become the white-man’s
friend and companion.


SPORTING NOTIONS
event though on form he had
nothing in his favor. Salamanca
certainly had a weight pull, but
even that didn’t hold with Bay-
side, whose hurdle jockey (Ernie
Sellers) probably believed before
the race he was earning a losing
fee and nothing else. The colt
had no form from the Guineas’
viewpoint; actually he was a
maiden when he took his place in
the barrier line-up. Just to rub
it in so far as Caulfield backers
were concerned, 100 to 1 Bytact,
also a maiden, ran third in the
classic.
Reflected Glory, winner of the
A.J.C. Widden Stakes, is bred
for speed. A 425gns. yearling,
she is related to Gloaming, noted
galloper of more than 30 years
ago and winner of £43,100 from
57 firsts and nine seconds.
The filly also is a member
of the family which pro-
duced Sydney gallopers War-
spite, Merrie Merton and
Captivation. Raced by Mr.
and Mrs. R. A. Hyles she is a
daughter of the new sire Hunter’s
Moon (by Big Game) from
Twilight by Talking from Halo
by Heroic from Gloaming’s
Sister by The Welkin (imp.).
The win was a welcome change
for Randwick mentor Keith
Duggan. First money was £940.
Racing today (Wednesday) at
Caulfield will see final appear-
ance of several Cup candidates.
Unless there’s a major upset, the
betting order on this coming
Saturday’s mile-and-a-half isn’t
likely to be materially altered.
Sydney-owned Peshawar is
favorite for the Cup, then Mel-
bourne’s Midway. Davey Jones,
Rio Janeiro and Pressman are
next-best fancied.
Pressman ran a sound third in
the A.J.C. Craven Plate with 9st.
to Hydrogen, and with his pull in
weight (7.5) he might win the
Caulfield Cup from Peshawar
and Bronton.
• Caulfield Guineas outsider
Bayside is in the Melbourne Cup
with 6.10. If he should fluke
the Derby at Flemington (or it
looks a bit that way at the
moment, unless he’s a much
better colt than revealed in last
Saturday’s boilover), he will
advance 101 b. to 7.6 (w.-f.-a.). It
mightn’t be wise policy, either,
to treat the classic performance
too cheaply, as Bayside’s
pedigree is chockful of staying
blood, and staying blood wins
Cups. The colt is by Faircourt
(imp.) from French Whim by
French Legion (imp.) from
Whimbrel by Devizes (imp.).
French Whim is a young
matron ; first foal in 1948. Fair-
court is a son of Fair Trial from
Clandon by Hyperion. With
such a background Bayside
should stay for a week, and two
miles should be easy for him
with, at the moment, a postage-
stamp on his back.
The Queen’s Cup, run at
Randwick last Saturday was, as
the King’s Cup, first programmed
in 1927 at Flemington and won
by Spear Maiden.. In World
War II it missed out from 1940
till 1945 inclusive. Some of Aus-
tralia’s best stayers have won
the much-sought-after trophy,
including Phar Lap, Limerick,
Rogilla and Shannon. Maurice
McCarteh rode two winners
(Limerick and Kuvera) as did
Darby Munro (Rogilla and
Shannon). Time record, 2.29, is
held by Falcon Knight, Brisbane
winner in 1947. That is parti-
cularly fast, and maybe will
remain best for the Cup until
another topnotcher comes along
and makes a real race of this
mile-and-a-half.
By running second in
important events horses often
earn stakemoney exceeding that
lifted from two or three wins.
For example, Plywood’s £2OOO
for second in the A.J.C. Derby
has made him a profitable buy
Follow form and go broke!
That well-known racing axiom
certainly applied to the A.J.C.
Queen’s Cup, main event on the
final day at Randwick, and con-
sidered a match between. New
Zealand’s crack four-year-old
Dalray and Hydrogen, Sydney’s
best of the same age. It was no
match —it was a poor show, a
“race” not easily to be forgotten,
especially by backers of Dalray
and of Hydrogen.
The 44,000 Randwick spec-
tators had counted on something
rather less of a fiasco. Dalray
and Hydrogen had each won
impressively at his prior start.
It was cheers for the victors on
those occasions, especially for
Dalray’s remarkable Metro-
politan success ; it was nothing
but jeers for both on Saturday.
Instead of the Queen’s Cup
proving an attractive and highly
interesting contest it ended with
a runaway winner, 50 to 1 Sala-
manca ; he touched 66’s in
places.
Salamanca had no prior record
at H miles. He had finished six
lengths behind Friendly Feeling
in fifth place in the Squatters’
Handicap a week earlier, and
Friendly Feeling was three
lengths behind him in the Cup.
So much for race form! Sala-
manca’s lightweight rider, M.
Maynard, simply “pinched” the
Cup, to the delight of book-
makers, who laid the two
favorites for a fortune.
Dalray was a close third in the
Cup, but at no stage did he or
Hydrogen flatter supporters.
Neither Nuttall (Dalray) nor
Munro (Hydrogen)—and Darb,
of course, is regarded as a master
of tactics in all races —was seen
to advantage. To this onlooker,
both appeared to ride with poor
judgment. The best horses can
give weight to supposed inferior
opponents, but conceding both
weight and big starts is just
another story.
The Suncup boom has burst!
Owner W. T. (Bill) Robinson,
leading citizen of Grafton
(N.S.W.), and Randwick trainer
Bob Abbott thought it was just
a matter of going to Melbourne
and picking up the Caulfield
Guineas. So did many thousands
of punters, who sent the colt to
the post at even money. But
Suncup had nothing to do with
the finish, after being in second
place at the top of the straight.
Sydney horses did no good on
Caulfield’s opening day, though
French Echo’s second in the
Guineas was worth £lOOO to
joint owners. Maybe Suncup is
not as good as first thought,
though the reverse way of gallop-
ing might have had a little to
do with his defeat.
New English sires have got
off to a flying start in the season’s
two-year-old events in Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Precotant
(First Chapter), Jambo (Love To
All) and Hunter’s Moon (Re-
flected Glory) hit the headlines
in Sydney—all are in their first
stud season —while Sans Tache
(Real Charm) and Masthead
(Mizzen Top) kept the new sires
to the fore at Caulfield. Mast-
head is an interesting stallion.
He won races from five furlongs
upwards in England, including
the Newmarket St. Leger-, If
miles. He is a son of Blue Peter
(Derby) and Schiaparelli by
Schiavoni. Sans Tache, a son of
Stardust, was imported to Vic-
toria in 1949.
The unexpected, certainly often
happens in racing. That’s what
keeps bookmakers on the stands
and most punters on their feet,
ft happened again at Caulfield.
Bayside (Guineas; 200 to 1), like
Salamanca in the Queen’s Cup
at Randwick, won the principal
for Sydney businessman Stan
Chatterton, who secured the colt
for 650gns. as a yearling. Fly-
wood was a winner at Randwick
early this year. He could add to
earnings in Melbourne during
the Cup carnival; he figures in
the Victoria Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup. Plywood is bred
to stay, and has given indications
he will do so with age. He is
by Delville Wood (imp.) from
Papillon by El Cacique (imp.).
Family lines include stayers,
among them Pretzel (AJ.C.
Summer Cup dead-heat with
Miss Nottava, 1932).
• • • •
It seems time the V.R.C.
jacked-up stakemoney for its
Derby. The £6OOO stake is
£4OOO less than that offered by
the A.J.C., which, as well, adds
various moneys to the prize. For
instance, Deep River’s owners
lifted a cheque for £8259, a
handsome return, while second
money was £2OOO and third
£lOOO. The V.R.C.’s handout
for second is £l2OO and for third
£6OO, which is a tough slice
from the £6OOO. Owners are pay-
ing big money for pick of the
yearlings, as, for example, the
6000gns. paid for Deep River,
BOWLER FOR A BOWLER
[The “bowler” trundled at Chappie Dwyer by Cricket Board
of Control, dropping him as selector, could possibly do this other
game a good turn. Three years ago Chappie joined the Warringah
Bowling Club, bought the clobber and gear needed, paid his sub-
scription, and — he’s yet to play there! Maybe he wants to set up
a long-time-no-play record, or perhaps he feels, as he looks, a bit
immature for that strenuous pastime .]
and naturally they appreciate
the rich Derby .stakes offered by
the AJ.C. This was reflected in
representation of four States in
the latest classic, Flemington’s
Derby should at least be worth
£BOOO ; even then it would suffer
by comparison with Randwick.
After all, the Melbourne Cup
carnival is the Australian high-
light each year.
C. Neville, New Zealand owner
of crack four-year-old Dalray,
winner of the AJ.C. Metro-
politan from Jan and Britavah,
declined an offer of £20,000 for
the son of Balloch (imp.) and
Broivene. No wonder! Prize-
money for the long race exceeded
£5300, and it may be fairly safe
to assume the stable won hand-
somely over Dalray’s success,
probably £15,000 *if current
report is true. And Neville still
has the horse—the best four-
year-old in this part of the world.
Dalray’s Metrop. success brought
earnings to £25,919 (11 wins).
Love To All, four-lengths
winner of the AJ.C. Gimcrack
Stakes from Blue Glare and
Reflected Glory, has the Cultured
two-year-old speed, and she may
go through the season unbeaten
unless Melbourne has a top-
ranking filly. It is interesting to
note that Love To All is closely
related to Manrico, one of Mel-
bourne’s most brilliant gallopers
of other years, one who
gathered exceptional early speed
while opponents were, well, “just
thinking about it.” Manrico
won races by lengths. His list of
successes included the 1939
Cantala Stakes, Standish Handi-
cap (twice) and Linlithgow
Stakes (dead-heat). In the 1939
Standish, Manrico (8.11) beat
another “flyer” Aurie’s Star
(9.13), and Amiable (8.11) in
1.1 U. Aurie’s Star still is Aus-
tralia’s record-holder for six
furlongs, 1.8-Jr. In 1941 Manrico
won the Standish with 9.10.
Jambo (imp.), sire of the
brilliant winner of the Gimcrack,
is a son of Felicitation from
Dodoma by Dastur. Felicitation
was a great stayer. His wins
included the Ascot Gold Cup,
24 miles. Jambo won seven
races, from five furlongs to H
miles. He is a half-brother to
the Ne'arco stallion Nilo (imp.),
now at the stud at Scone. Six
Jambos were sold at the Rand-
wick yearling sales last April for
an average of 600gns., but
1050gns. was refused for the colt
from Two Crosses later named
Gem Beau.
• • • •
Gazza, dam of AJ.C. Derby
Winner Deep River, with her
latest filly foal at foot, had two
distinguished visitors last Thurs-
day. Mr. and Mrs. John De
Blois Wack went along to Kia-
Ora stud, Scone (N.S.W.), to see
the famous dam of their brilliant
colt. The visit could include
making a nodding acquaintance
with Midstream (imp.), sire of the
classic winner, and seeing
Delville Wood (imp.) or the other
stallions at the world-famed
property, first home of hundreds
of noted performers; but the
real object was to meet Gazza,
Magpie’s all-important daughter.
The Americans took in a spot of
N.S.W. country life, and in
Scone saw one of the prettiest
centres the State has to offer.
Gazza’s latest filly is by the new
sire Brimstone (imp.), a son of
Dante; Brimstone is in his
first season at Kia-Ora. The De
Blois Wacks expressed keen
appreciation of the many
courtesies extended them during
their brief stay at Scone, also in
Sydney. For them it has been
an exciting and happy visit to
Australia.
* * * *
Warrnambool had heard that
the Healing bike people couldn’t
afford to finance its big bike
race any more —they took it on
after the Dunlop-tyre concern
turned it in—and the little city
nearly threw a sixer. Recovered,
the Warrnamboolers asked their
Citizens’ Committee to do some-
thing or never show its face in
Leibig-street again, and were
hastily informed that the race
would go on, even if everybody
from Shelly Beach to the Koroit
“Sentinel” social editor had to
put in.
The famous old Melbourne-
Warmambool race, winning of
which used to be an ambition
of every Victorian small boy,
was duly won by a somewhat
“old” boy—for bike-racing. Vin
Beasley, eldest son of J.J., a
once-famous pedal-pusher, is 39.
Vin had retired from the bikes in
1939, but now gave it another
go and took the thing out. His
own son, young Vin, broke down
10 miles from the finish.
* * * *
Yank pro. golfers Demaret,
Mangrum, Oliver and Turnesa
are due here on October 22 to
play in the big-money tourna-
ments set for Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide courses in the next
five or six weeks. Each of them
has earned over £5OOO this year
in U.S. tourneys, but that’s a
long way above the profit after
taxes, caddies and travelling exes,
have been paid. They’ve been
guaranteed “appearance money”
for Australia.
* * * *
Latest issue of the English
monthly “Cricketers’ Magazine”
to reach here has Australia’s old
friends Jack Hobbs and Bill
Bowes, among others known in
these parts, as contributors —
Hobbs on the art of batting,
written out of his vast experi-
ence. One off-the-field slip is the
naming of Alan Rae as skipper
of the West Indies side lately in
Australia. Rae, by the way, tips
Australia to beat England next
year.
• • • •
To boost cricket in country
districts, Sydney cricketer Jack
Chegwyn has for years been tak-
ing away teams of Test and State
men and promising youngsters.
This year he is taking a team
further afield—to Hong Kong,
where the local club is celebrat-
ing its centenary. His team, now
there and due to play five games
in six days, includes Miller,
Morris, Walker, McCool and
Tallon (attempting a comeback).
“L.”: Claimed that, as N.S.W.
and Victoria together have pro-
vided 70 per cent, of all Aus-
tralian Test players, both States
have a right to a man each on
the selection panel. Sound
reasoning, no doubt; but a
certain proportion of that 70
per cent, may have made the
grade because 75 per cent, of the
selectors have come from the two
States. In other years some
potential Test men from other
States for long blushed unseen—
or anyway unselected.
# * • ♦
Passed on 'at Christchurch
(N.Z.), at 66, Fritz Holland, one
of the most popular American
boxers ever to fight in Australia.
Real name Frederick Creal,
Fritz Holland began boxing
as an amateur at Spokane,
Washington, where he was born,
and did so well as a professional
later that former world’s heavy-
weight champion, Tommy Burns,
brought him, Arthur Pelkey,
Jimmy Fitton and Charlie Horn
to Australia late in 1913.
Holland turned out to be the
star of this troupe ; his contests
with Dave Smith, Albert Lloyd,
Jimmy Clabby, et ah, are still
talked about.
The most famous fight Fritz
Holland had at Sydney Stadium
was with Les Darcy on July 18,
1914, when Newcastle admirers
of the Maitland Marvel tried to
burn down the Rushcutter’s Bay
arena after Holland won a points
decision. Holland won their
next fight, too, this time on a
foul, but Darcy beat Fritz m
their last two tussles, once on
points and then by knockout. No
knockout puncher himself, Hol-
land was a great ring general;
his sheer craftiness carried him
to many victories.
Crossing to N.Z. after his Aus-
tralian scrapping, Fritz Holland
won a few more fights before
opening a gymnasium in We-
lington, then one in Invercargill,
and yet another in Christchurch
which he still conducted at tnj
time of his death. A disciple o
the upstanding Jem Mace schoo,
he turned out many able boxers-
among them his old fnen
George Gardner’s son ko *
thrice Maoriland’s heavyweign
champion. Incidentally, Geoig»
Gardner is going strong at W-


SIMPLEX 300 WATT
GENERATING SET
PRICE
£75
Weight
761bs.
M
1 2 Volt
Sturdy
battery-charging
and lighting set.
32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
bVe
s s»
I#
et®
I 5»
vU®
Vvosv
*r**
eUe
o u e
»\yav
Aet^
tv\°
TO*
VeVi
etv
l\v®
0^ s
A®V
Vtv®
rO°
s av®
Yv»s
10^
efS
ia®
tot
Vc®
M* 6
Vva
S®^
OU?
#° S Y
At®
v\t
iottp
VVV°
<1
rtt®
ous
ott
tvV
VJt
A^frVest
VtOtO
CW
frJ®
et»
eo
A®v
0*
H ;
tv®®
t\v®
vV»
\m
PVt
A®
iio*
\yOSV
lt»u®
ott
to
Aett 1
\Va
CotaV
t\SV
Yvosv
ttv°
c ott
tt a
VvV%
tVV®
vVt®
HU®
tv® a
Ott ft
eu
N< c
v\t®
w°*
IA 4
AA®
tVV
V.®'®
\vO
fw
\V%
iota
t\vt°
\A®*
fe.cc
rl* e
v^ s
®0»
Vbo 11
W®
U<*
UosP
n r "
»®
rtC®
pr*
sS£SI
:;
I
• :• :: | '.*
m
m
:
■
mil
mm*
Hi
Sydney
Melbourne * Adelaide
Brisbane
Perth • Hobart
Newcastle
■
iiiiiiii |||
mm
(Incorporated in Vic.) PTY. LTD.
Photograph by courtesy "The Argus," Melbourne.
THE
LANDLESS
SOLDIERS
\
% Thousands and thousands of Diggers,
whole battalions of them, have been
passed as qualified for soldier-settlement —
and cant get an acre. Here is the story of
their fruitless effort.
By CHARLES SHAW
BACK in 1947 a Land
Board sat at Gundagai
(N.S.W.) to examine the
fitness or otherwise of
returned soldiers who had nom-
inated for a ballot for soldier-
settlement blocks. There were
1500 nominations for the 13
blocks available.
Among the applicants was a
solidly-built man of about 30
years of age. He had with him
his wife, a son aged seven, a
son aged four and a baby
daughter in a pram. He had
been growing wheat on shares,
but the landowner had sold
some of the property and there
was no room for a sharefarmer
on the remainder. The applicant
had money from the wheatgrow-
ing and from his deferred
R.A.A.F. pay. He also had 300
ewes grazing on rented land near
Temora.
Gundagai was the fifth town
he had visited to attend a Land
Board, and this time he had
brought the family because he
believed he would land a block
and he wanted the wife to have
a look at her new town.
He also had some practical
visions. He saw himself and his
family established on a farm,
himself growing wool and fat
lambs, his boys growing with
the years and working with
him. He had been a land worker
all his working life, and, after
the break of war service—and
persuaded by the promises made
to servicemen about land-settle-
ment —he had set out to get a
block, in the meantime working,
as stated, as a sharefarmer.
He was not among the lucky
13 in that ballot. The chances
are that, if he kept on nomin-
ating for ballots during the suc-
ceeding five years, he probably
still hasn’t a farm. The chances
are that he spent much of his
1946 capital chasing the ballots
and keeping his family. The
chances are that he gave up try-
ing and is now in some town
job, while his boys, now 12 and
nine, go to a town school and
wonder why their father is
sometimes restless and bitter.
There’s nothing special about
this man or about his disap-
pointment. His story is merely
typical of thousands, for out of
about 19,000 N.S.W. ex-service-
men who have been approved as
fit to run farms, only 2015 had
farms up to June 30 last under
the N.S.W. soldier-settlement
scheme. Which means that
roughly 17,000 have been waiting
for land since 1946.
Any one of the 17,000 who
wants to bet on getting a block
in his lifetime would get good
odds from a bookmaker by pro-
ducing what N.S.W. Land Mini-
ster Hawkins calls a “statement
of progress” up to 30/6/’52.
There are two ways of acquir-
ing a block. One is by the bal-
lot system, where land taken over
by the Crown is subdivided and
intending settlers take their
chance in a draw; the other is
the “promotion” system, where
the soldier finds the land and
arranges purchase and persuades
the Government to finance it.
Since 1946, returned men have
acquired 926 promotion farms,
847 ballot farms, 121 irrigation
farms and 121 Western Division
grazing leases.
This is an average of 336
farms a year. Even if that
average could be kept up it
would take 50 years to satisfy
the 17,000 applicants. But it
isn’t being kept up, as Mr. Haw-
kins’s figures for allotted ballot
farms show:
Farms
Year, Allotted.
1946 .. .. 17
1947 .. .. 116
1948 .. .. 305
1949 .. .. 217
1950 .. .. 74
1951 .. .. 86
1952 (half-year) .. 29
But the applications are being
kept up. Since last June eight
farms at Barraba drew 2157
applicants, nine at Coonamble
1940, and 15 at Tamworth 2578.
A summary of the short his-
tory of World War II soldier-
settlement explains the sudden
drop in allotted farms after
1949:
In the beginning the Common-
wealth offered to find the capital
necessary to buy and develop
land and finance settlers for
stock, plant, etc. South and West
Australia and Tasmania accepted
this and thus became administer-
ing agents for the Common-
wealth.
N.S.W., Victoria and Queens-
land wanted absolute control of
their own schemes,' so a joint
scheme was entered into, under
which they agreed to find the
money for land-buying and
advances to settlers, the Com-
monwealth to contribute by way
of grants. These States thus
became principal States as dis-
tinct from the three agent
States.
This, simple as it seems, was
full of complications and led to
all sorts of delays, particularly
on the question of valuation of
the land, wherein State and
Federal valuers frequently
clashed and neither would give
way to the other.
It suffered another blow when
the N.S.W. Government began
forcible seizure of “proclaimed”
lands at 1942 values. Land-
holders, hitherto willing to sell
portions of their estates for
soldier-settlement, naturally ob-
jected, and though the High
Court upheld the claim of the
N.S.W. Government that it
could acquire property on “any
terms it thought fit,” the same
court held that the Common-
wealth could not be a partner
to it because of the “just-terms”
clause of Section 51 of the Com-
monwealth Constitution. Thus
the Commonwealth withdrew
from the N.S.W. soldier-settle-
ment scheme.
That, together with the litiga-
tion involved when landholders
sought justice against the N.S.W.
“land-banditry,” is the chief
reason for the drop in farm
figures after 1949, though there
is also the near-collapse of
N.S.W. Government finance.
This Government tried to make
political capital out of the cut
in loan-money by public an-
nouncements that it would be
“forced” to cut down soldier-
settlement.
The facts are that the three
principal States have spent over
£4l million on soldier-settlement,
whereas the agent States have
spent over £25 million. In point
of wealth and resources this is
a poor showing by the principal
States. Again, whereas the
amount of loan-money allocated
to soldier-settlement by the prin-
cipal States has declined from
about 6 per cent, to 2 per cent,
in the current year, the agent
States adjusted their works-pro-
grammes to give soldier-settle-
ment high priority.
However much N.S.W. meth-
ods have contributed to it, the
fact remains that soldier-settle-
ment is not progressing in Aus-
tralia as it should. Nor is it
likely to contribute significantly
to increased land-production at
the present rate. One of the
reasons for this, not admitted by
States or Commonwealth, is that
the method of giving soldiers
land leads to vast accumulations
of files and forms, officials and
programmes, which achieve
little.
The N.S.W. idea, for instance,
is that the settler must at all
costs be prevented from pioneer-
ing. He is not to be allowed
on to his farm until houses and
buildings (with all mod. cons.),
fences, tanks and so forth have
been placed there for him.
Since this provision is left to
officials, the delay may well be
imagined.
T +
Governments who talk about
increasing land-production are
wasting their breath. Few young
men today can buy farm land
or find the capital to begin farm-
ing. Even if they have the rights
of ex-servicemen, the foregoing
shows what chance they have.
Yet there are many who stand
and wonder why in all this vast
and comparatively - unoccupied
homeland there is no acre that
they may hope to call their own.
Eric Vidal, N.S.W. secretary
of an ex-servicemen’s associa-
tion, holds that soldier land-
seekers should be given a chance
to pioneer:
It’s against the present-day
tendency to give to any man the
right to work where and when he
wants to; there’s an economist or
an expert round every corner
which a man with initiative
turns .... too many to condemn
any scheme which would permit
Diggers to do what is being done
all the time by the man on the
land . . . My association would
give to any World War II Digger
who wants it the chance to go into
virgin or undeveloped country
with his waterbag, his axe and his
faith in his own ability, to make a
farm for himself free of restric-
tions and controls and experts —
simply to do what others have
done.
That, or something like it, is
all that any man asks who has
in him that compelling force
which makes him hunger for
land of his own. He doesn’t
want a farm of some official
making, but one he can make
himself.
Governments, dazzled by
planners, have lost sight of that.
That’s why political talk about
boosting land - production is
about 96 p.c. poppycock, and
why political crying about “the
drift to the cities” is hypocriti-
cal.
The plain and simple fact is
that it is practically impossible
for any land-hungry man, re-
turned soldier or otherwise, to
get land in Australia unless he
has £lO,OOO or more in the bank.
The average cost of establishing
each of the 2015 soldier-settlers
in N.S.W. is over £ll,OOO per
farm. In Queensland it is esti-
mated at between £lO,OOO and
£13,000 to set up a soldier on a
block.
How much of that is spent on
forms, files, plans, inspectors and
all the rest of it isn’t stated.


bfthtkbfkgth
mm
/•>;<
y .v
:
mm
K
M
’?** **,?£* s
r*o Duc c °**s, es §
*7 ;
#
good taste in gin
for more than
200 years.
GIN
A Mice /T&O
VG4B/I4
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O.'S GREAT HOT-AIR SOCIETY
“Apparently her Majesty’s
Treasury prefer financing this
aerated balderdash.”
In this satirical spirit London
“Financial Times” carves up the
United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organisa-
tion, alias U.N.E.5.C.0., and
dollar-waste and similar inci-
dentals appertaining thereto.
U.S. and Britain are this
U.N.O. hatching’s main cash
backers. Here’s how it goes
through the money:
A staff of 846, all enjoying
luscious tax-free salaries, are
engaged in spending $8,718,000
this year. Very nearly $1 mil-
lion of this is accounted for by
the costs of “General Adminis-
tration” ; another $699,525 goes
on “Common Service Costs,”
and a further $313,292 repre-
sents the cost of the “General
Conference” and the Executive
Board.
“Obviously, hot air is more
expensive than uranium,” and
poor old J. Bull’s whack of that
Budget is upwards of a million
dollars.
“Having spent $2 million on
themselves,” says the “Financial
Times,” “let us consider how
U.N.E.S.C.O. dispose of their
remaining funds. Details are
given in a report on the sixth
session of the general conference
of U.N.E.S.C.O. It is signed by
Mr. D. R. Hardman, formerly
Parliamentary Secretary, who
was rejected by his constituents
at the last election.” Fellow-
delegates include “Sir Ronald
Adam, once a soldier and now
head of that expensive asylum
for unemployable pendants and
dabblers in culture, the British
Council.”
And “U.N.E.S.C.O.’s budget
includes the following appro-
priations : for ‘education’
$1,353,994; for ‘social sciences’
$520,082 ; for ‘cultural activities’
$896,982. Under this heading
come such windy subjects as
‘the development of international
cultural co-operation,’ ‘the pre-
servation of the cultural heritage
of mankind,’ ‘the dissemination
of culture’ and ‘action in the
service of human rights.’ Then
there is an item of $1,107,854
for what is called ‘mass com-
munication’ this grandiose
term comprises ‘the improve-
ment of means and techniques
of communication,’ ‘the removal
of obstacles to the free flow of
information,’ and an entry
which suggests a very heavy
telephone bill called ‘use of the
means of communication,’ which
costs $645,029.
“Here are only a few of the
ludicrous projects to be under-
taken by U.N.E.S.C.O. under
these different heads. Two con-
ferences will ‘study the prob-
lems’ in the Middle East and in
South-East Asia of what is
contradictorily described as
‘free and compulsory schooling,’
though how at the same time
the educated are to be both free
and under compulsion
U.N.E.S.C.O. does nqt say.
“Next an ‘lnternational Com-
putation centre’ is to be estab-
lished ; a regional conference
will consider the mysteries of
African languages; there are to
be ‘round-table discussions be-
tween thinkers, scientists, writers
and artists on current cultural
problems’—‘Pass the Pilsner,
Herr Doktor!’ will doubtless be
its watchword.
“ ‘Material for the popularisa-
tion of the arts’ is to be diffused
and exchanged—and diffuse it
will certainly be; and a new
scientific and cultural history of
mankind is to be compiled by
an assorted international com-
mittee of quarrelsome historians.
What a project—one might as
well attempt to televise a new
Tower of Babel!
“Special attention, we are
told, is to be devoted in a
‘seminar’ on the education of
children of pre-school age to
‘the adoption of a system of
training based on respect for
human dignity’—whatever that
means for three-year-olds! And
if this were not absurd enough,
consider the following bleary-
eyed proposal: ‘ln continuing
its earlier inquiries into the
problems of social tension,
U.N.E.S.C.O. will attempt a
critical inventory into the
methods employed to assist
strangers to enter fully into the
cultural life of national com-
munities.’ Talk of Universal
Aunts!
“Wonder of wonders, the next
U.N.E.S.C.O. project is the
drafting of an ‘instrument de-
signed to assist by international
agreement the removal of
obstacles to the movement be-
tween countries of persons
travelling for educational, scien-
tific and cultural purposes.’
What luck the fellow-travellers
have! Finally, a large part of
the educational budget is to be
devoted to relieving illiteracy in
Mexico. This is rather hard
on the Director-General of
U.N.E.5.C.0., Mr. Torres Bodet,
who is a Mexican.”
After Monte Bello
“Security on the non-military
aspect of the atom is showing
dangerous signs of cramping the
development of this new source
of power for peaceful needs.”
Making this comment on the
Monte Bello business, London
“Time and Tide” adds;
“Like the aeroplane, the atom
is difficult to split into two en-
tirely different categories:
peace and war. But science has
now had time to develop along
entirely different lines, and it is
reasonably certain that behind
those steel fences that ring the
Atomic Energy Research Estab-
lishment at Harwell, Berkshire,
work has already been done
which, at its most sensational,
could found an entirely new
future for Britain ; at its most
likely could make big improve-
ments in our economic and
industrial rebirth.”
Those who make British in-
dustry are worried, it is further
stated, because too few have
been told anything of the atomic
future as it affects them. A
few firms have been let into a
few secrets so that they could do
work which Harwell found im-
possible, but' only in a very
restricted way.
Pleas are voiced that more in-
formation on the development of
atomic power should be given to
aircraft-designers. Metallurgists,
whose work is of vital import-
ance to the atom scientists, com-
plain that they cannot learn the
degrees of temperature and dis-
integration their metals must
withstand in order to take part
in the new atomic age.
“Some work of development
has already been farmed-out to
the big industrial houses, but
they have not been given their
head in the same way as the big
industrialists of the United
States.
“The panics which have fol-
lowed the exposures of the
Fuchses and Nunn Mays of this
comparatively new science have
frightened the Security Depart-
ments more than they have
frightened the scientists, result-
ing in a, stultifying blanket of
‘Hush!’ which may eventually
cost Britain some years’ sacri-
fice of development. Some
secrecy is essential, but the
appeals of industry for greater
co-operation seem reasonable.”
War Furph
Not usually a dealer in
rumors, London “Economist”
has given space to one on war
breaking out this month.
It would happen as an out-
come of the month-long talks
with top Communist Chinese in
N^x
*»SS
—lndianapolis ( U.S.A .) “Star”
BUT A COMFORTABLE PLACE FOR JOE
Moscow. China would declare
war on America.
The aim would be to drive a
wedge between the United States
and its allies, on the argument
that London and Paris would
not support Washington by de-
claring war themselves; they
would fear the consequences for
Hong Kong, in Indo-China and
on the high seas.
The “Economist” holds it un-
likely. The war in Korea, even
continued indefinitely, it con-
siders, should suit both the
the Chinese and Russians better
than the wider conflict, which
could hardly help but become
genera!. .
It, however, gave sufficient
heed to the story to add that
British and French leaders
should make it clear, to the
Communists as well as their own
people, that if the war bursts
out of Korea they stand or fall
with America, come what may.
Planters of Malaya
In the six years 1946-51 a
total of $1,250,000,000 was
earned for the sterling area by
1000 planters of Malaya,
“quietly living lives of fantastic
heroism.”
These men and that stake
General Templer aims to safe-
guard. But, to judge by British
Press comment, he’s being far
too rough. These days, it seems,
J. Bull should not go even into
a jungle ambush without kid
gloves.
For a change from comment
which thus wants to have it both
ways, a “Yorkshire Post” writer
who has been in Malaya and
thereabouts for 25 years de-
fends Templer, while also pay-
ing a high tribute to the
planters:
“General Templer’s order for
the destruction of the Malayan
village of Permatang Tinggi
may shock public opinion, but
he has ample justification. Long
centuries of experience of wave
after wave of conquering war-
lords sweeping over their home-
land peasant-farms has branded
into the Chinese soul the words
‘Hear all, see all, say nothing.’
Every Chinese carries round
with him his own iron curtain.
When that is dropped it is utterly
impenetrable.
“That is what General, Terap-
ler is up against. He must break
that curtain. If he does not ‘the
emergency’ will amble on in-
definitely, and the Malayan
planters will break. Their resist-
ance to the collapse of personal
morale up to date seems almost
superhuman.”
Their morale is still good, but
the writer notes that, for in-
stance, a growing number of
older planters are retiring before
their natural time. They do
not wait for pensions: they
draw their provident funds and
save, their families and them-
selves.
Also, “Many younger planters
home on leave are influenced by
their families, who find them
jobs at home, entreating them
‘not to go back and take their
wives and children to that dread-
ful place.’ Then there are the
casualties killed and maimed,
now nearing 10 per cent, of the
total number and, in addition,
the natural wastage of a very
unhealthy country
“How long can the men stand
that terrible strain if, as seems
likely, the bandits have decided
to make them the focal-point of
their savage attacks? How long
can they continue to earn dollars
for us at that terrible cost to
themselves?”
Korea Not All Loss
Korea, as judicially summed-
up by “Manchester Guardian,”
has not been all loss.
It may have “saved peace
over much wider areas” —in fact,
averted World War 111.
“In 1950, when the conflict
began,” comments the
“Guardian,” “it was difficult to
see how eventual world war
could be avoided. Russia was
on the offensive, moving
cautiously, it is true, but believ-
ing that there was at least the
possibility that it could bring
down the world by a clever use
of force at the appropriate
moment, as it had brought down
Czechoslovakia.
“By conniving at the attack
on South Korea, Russia sated
its zeal for experimental adven-
ture : at the same time the reve-
lation of America’s will to re-
sist brought into operation on
Russia’s side the caution which
was to prevent the war from
extending.
“Nor was this all: there was
also China’s role. The Chinese
Revolution has run surprisingly
true to the classic pattern of the
first French Revolution.
Domestic revolution was fol-
lowed by foreign war and terror
at home. May it not be that the
Korean war has enabled China
to pass through in miniature the
experience which France had 40
suffer on a continental
“There are,” the “Guardian”
finds, “solid reasons for think-
ing that China may now he


Whatever you HAUL
whatever you DELIVER
Imported model 1-192
heavy-duty truck (142-
inch wheelbase).
rtghronrtyj
Australian-made model
AL-160 medium-heavy-
duty truck (172-inch
wheelbase).
reţ
1
Australian-made model
AL-130 light truck
(134-inch wheelbase).
There’s on Internotionol for your job
\ A/HETHER you operate the largest fleet of trucks or
” * the smallest unit, it's in your interest before buying
to first inspect International trucks.
Increased manufacture at International Harvester's
Oandenong Works assures availability of Australian-made
Internationals in the light, medium and medium-heavy-
duty field.
In the heavy-duty field your need can be met by the
imported heavy-duty Internationals.
The ideal all-purpose vehicle for your light carrying
problems is the International model AL-110 utility featured
below, its Australian-made Silver Diamond engine has a
reserve of durability that puts extra quality and economy
into International light-duty trucks. The sturdy truck
chassis and extra large payload area are ideally balanced
and flexibly sprung to give you passenger car comfort.
Experienced drivers are keen on it women handle it
with ease. It/will carry you and your goods with complete
security and comfort anywhere, anytime.
Let your International Harvester district sales office,
distributor or dealer tell you more about it.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD,
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
IKTfBHATIOIUL
NASvcma
Right for cargo, hauling time
and distance—that's the answer
when you use International
trucks! So plan to speed up
schedules and cut costs with
more miles from an Inter-
national's daily operation.
Australian-made model AL-110 utility (115-inch
wheelbase).
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
M T 360-40
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International intystrial Power
ready to disengage. With the
mass of the people, even with
the loyal Communists, the war
is now thoroughly unpopular,
though unfortunately the mass
hatred of America, stirred up by
Communist propaganda, still
rages as strong as ever.
“At least one of the main
factions which make up the
Chinese Communist Govern-
ment is said to be anxious for
peace. Its members say that the
Korean war has already cost
China, economically and finan-
cially, more than the full toll
of the eight-year war with
Japan.
“All that the war can achieve
for China has been achieved:
it has persuaded Russia to give
it modern arms and aircraft —
though at the price of very
heavy exports to Russia —and it
has established its position as a
partner of Russia, not a satellite.
“The talk in Peking now is of
China’s first five-year plan of
industrialisation which this fac-
tion of the Government is im-
patient to announce. It realises
that there can be no further
real increase in China’s military
strength until the economy has
been built up.”
Finland Pays a Debt
The only European country to
pay off its World War I debt to
America, Finland has now paid
its “private-war” debt to Russia.
When their fighting stopped
in 1944, Russia levied repara-
tions claims of goods worth
$300,000,000 in terms of the
1938 gold dollar.
Actually the pay-off has
amounted to a great deal more
than the figure claimed. As in-
stanced by the Louisville (U.S.)
“Courier-Journal,” small wooden
schooner-type craft were valued
by Moscow at $15,000 each.
The real cost came to $lBO,OOO
each.
The pay-off burden was not
lightened by one remarkable
happening. The 480,000 Finns
who once lived in the strip of
their country which Russia took
as a partial price of peace left
their homes and swarmed over
the border to what was Finland
still. It was a displaced-persons
problem which involved 10 per
cent, of the whole country’s
population. To make jobs and
homes for these people—to pro-
vide the farming majority of
them with land —this was itself
an appalling task.
The bill of goods which Fin-
land was called on to provide
was staggering enough in size.
But to make it worse most of
the items were such things as
machinery, metal goods and
ships which Finland’s industry
could not supply in anything
like the volume needed. Whole
industries had to be built from
the ground up.
Anyway, Finland has paid.
“And alone of the Soviet-border-
ing States in which the Com-
munists have tried the technique
of political capture, Finland has
survived.”
Prodding the Lion
In Britain as a whole (Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” regretfully
notes) there seems to be “a lack
of drive.”
The “glad, confident morn-
ings” of the nineteenth-centuiy
era, it laments, have gone. There
is no longer assurance in the
idea of unlimited progress. The
old optimism appears to have
migrated to America.
As well, the “Scotsman” finds,
“we [British] appear to be suf-
fering also from a sense of par-
ticular grievance. Englishmen
especially seem to feel that the
world owes us something for our
conduct in the war.
“The truth is that, whatever
may be the aid that we have
received and may still get, we
must depend primarily upon our-
selves. Our backs are to the
;wall, and we do not know it.
[We have not had to suffer a
I breakdown of the currency such
ts Germany has gone through
twice in this century, nor have
we experienced the shock of
bank failures such as occurred
in the United States in 1930.
“The Welfare State has acted
as a shock-absorber, and claims
the merit of doing so, but it
also fosters illusions that are
dangerous, the chief of which is
that State action can be a sub-
stitute for enterprise and hard
work.”
Various Voices
American Captain Eddie
Rickenbacker, on Britain’s jets:
“The Comet. A world-beater.
If I were an Englishman I would
work night and day, including
weekends, to keep the advantage
you now have.”
General Ridgway {on his
European command job): “It is
no good trying to match the
enemy division by division ; that
way lies disaster. Rather must
we do it by our better tech-
nique, by mobility, by maintain-
ing our lead in atomic develop-
ments, but above all by faith in
the justice of our cause.”
The Archbishop of Canter-
bury : “I feel that the world
would be a happier place if tele-
vision had never been dis-
covered. Now and again it serves
a useful purpose, but it is one
of those things that disturb the
world.”
British M.P., John Strachey :
“Democracy is the only safe-
guard against Governments
doing things which may be right
in principle but which are wrong
for the people at that particular
time and place.”
Dr. C. R. Decker {until re-
cently director of the Mutual
Security Agency): “Europe is a
main line of the free world’s de-
fence, but Asia is also a main
line. Many responsible strate-
gists believe that Moscow’s cur-
rent offensive, particularly on
the internal subversive front, is
in Asia. If the free world loses
the rich and strategic resources
and the vast manpower of the
Far East the industrialised Wes-
tern world could crumble.”
French Premier Pinay : “One
must change the mentality of the
country if we want France to
regain her true place in the evo-
lution of the modern world.”
U.S. Presidential candidate
Stevenson : “The Republican
party’s efforts to get rid of its
past and catch up with the
Democrats reminds me of an
Australian bushman who bought
a new boomerang and spent the
rest of his life trying to throw
away the old one.”
Bernard Braine {British Con-
servative M-P.) : “To listen to
some trade-unionists clamoring
for two pounds a week wage
rises and talking balderdash and
bunkum about workers’
standards having ‘deteriorated,’
you would not think that we
are in the midst of a boom holi-
day. Workers, who are the new
‘television class’ of this nation,
should spare a thought for those
people on pensions and fixed
incomes who are the new
poor.”
Pat Hornsby-Smith {Parlia-
mentary Secretary to Britain’s
Ministry of Health): “A lot of
people are getting their priori-
ties wrong. They put the Wel-
fare State first and earning our
living a poor second, when in
point of fact if we don’t do the
‘second’ we cannot have the
first.”
American Henry Wallace
{whose conversion would appear
complete): “Russia may not
want a hot war at any time in
the next ten years, but she cer-
tainly wants such a continuation
of the cold war as will enable
her, through her State satellites
and internally planted subver-
sives, to take over the greatest
amount of territory possible.”
U.S. Senator Tom Connolly
{on the agreements with Ger-
many) : “I do not believe the
Russians want a peace treaty.
They are fearful, with good
reason, that a unified Germany
would assert its independence
and would not fit comfortably
into their galaxy of satellites.
The Russians, of course, do not
have any allies ; they have only
satellites.”
Bernard Braine, M.P.: “If we
[Britain] merged our sovereignty
completely in a federal State
covering part or even all free
Europe we would do more than
surrender our individual inde-
pendence. We would cease to
belong to the old Commonwealth
of Nations, for there is no way
by which we could carry our
partners into a European federa-
tion with us, and few, if any of
them, would voluntarily follow
our example.”
Special U.S. Representative in
Europe, Draper : “As a political
group N.A.T.O. is becoming
stronger and more closely
united. In the economic field
the severe financial crises which
were brewing last winter have
been kept within bounds.... and
a clear-cut movement is under
way towards closer economic
integration.”
M. Monnet: “The Schuman
Plan indicates the road which
will lead to a united Europe,
because it is not based on vast
preconceived federalist plan-
ning, but on practical, realisable,
regional beginnings. We are
already on that road. And we
must continue along it. For it
is a case of ‘United Europe or
death!’”


Champion
r SfOkT£TT£S
IN U,S.A. JUNE,1939. A TRAINER.
EXCHANGED HIS APPRENTICE FOR
THE-SIX-YEAR-OLD-QELOING
•TRAMWAY",WHOSE 18 STARTS.
IN 1938-7 SEASON HAD YIELDED
ONLY ONE WIN. THE APPRENTICE 'A' '
HAD MUCH THE BETTER FORM i:W
HAVING ONLY A FORTNIGHT
PREVIOUSLY HAD HIS FIRST RIDE
FOR A WIN.
a.
TOOK PLACE IN
MELBOURNE (AUST) IN NOVEM BER,
1855 WHEN JAMES KELLY AND
JONATHON SMITH MET IN A
BARE KNUCKLE ENCOUNTERTHAT
LASTED 6 HOURS 15 MINUTES.
AS)
v
w
liH
mmo#7VMceo
is
N792D-3.50
THE CHOICE OF SMOKERS WHOff
APPRECIATE A REALLY SATISFYING
SMOKE. AVAILABLE IN FINE CUT,Oft.
READY RUBBED.. IT IS TRULY A
CUAMP/OM SMOKE
mourn
m
TOBACCO
3
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for fhe Pipe.
ridicule. Flout-a your impud-
ence before his face, and sneak
off behind his back to marry a
guttersnipe. Well, you won’t
bring your precious Pangalos
friends here.” Mr. Kasadias
collapsed into a chair and
covered his eyes with his hand.
When he looked up, Demetrios
was half-way to the door. “And
where do you think you’re off
now?” he demanded.
“Don’t you ever speak about
Daphne like that again—or I’ll
kill you,” said his son without
originality. “And it’s no concern
of yours where I’m going.”
Mr. Kasadias thought quickly.
His initial rage was cooling, and
he realised his words had been
hasty. He attempted a con-
ciliatory smile. “Well,” he said,
“perhaps I did say a little more
than I meant. But you couldn’t
have thought I’d exactly welcome
the match.”
Demetrios returned and sat
down opposite his father, feeling
distinctly relieved. He had no
taste for quarrels, since he could
always see the other person’s
point of view, and usually ended
by secretly agreeing with them.
Also he was by nature a cheerful
young man who would rather
embrace his fellow-creature than
wrangle with him. “I don’t see
why not,” he reasoned. “She’s
a fine, good, lovely girl, and,
although she may not be an
aristocrat, quite, then neither are
we.”
“I’ll tell you what. Let me
think this over, and bring-a your
Daphne to dinner tomorrow
night. Let-a me judge for myself,
eh?” He leaned over and
slapped Demetrios on the knee
with a joviality he was far from
feeling.
BUT when he met Daphne the
next evening, Mr. Kasadias
had to admit she was a great
improvement on her father. In
her simple, though perfectly-
chosen, dinner-gown, she seemed
refined and eminently present-
able. She was modest and witty,
and her manners were delightful.
Indeed, Mr. Kasadias found him-
self wondering more than once
What an intelligent girl like this
saw in Demetrios. “Well, my
dear,” he said, taking her small
hand in both his, “I’m sure your
father and I will be able to work
out the formal details. Just you
be happy, and make-a my
Demetrios a good wife. That’s
all I ask.”
When she had gone he shook
his head and his eyes hardened a
little. Business was business.
The following day he telephoned
Mr. Pangalos to come and see
him.
It is difficult to visualise a
meeting of two more dissimilar
men. Mr, Kasadias, distin-
guished and quite at his ease,
wearing immaculate grey,
brooded over Arthur Pangalos
with his crumpled sports-clothes
and open-necked shirt in a way
that made the other sweat pro-
fusely and gulp at the drink that
was placed in his hands.
“You got a nice place here,”
Mr. Pangalos said in tones of
awe that gave the owner a
distinct feeling of satisfaction.
Mr. Kasadias crossed his grey
legs and said “Let’s come to the
point, shall we?”
“Sure. That’s-a what we’re
here for.” Mr. Pangalos gave a
nervous chuckle.
“You’ve got a nice daughter.
I wouldn’t like to see you stand
in her way.”
“Who’s going to stand in her
way?” asked Mr. Pangalos with
elaborate innocence.
“Exactly. Now for the details.
There’s the question of dowry.”
“I’m not a rich man like you.”
“How much?”
“I could manage five-
hundred,”
“It’s not enough.”
“I speak to her uncle Niki,
He says if she’s-a happy, he'll
give another thousand.”
“And-a the banquet?”
“I’m not a rich man.”
“It’s a very unequal bargain.”
“A hundred pounds,” said
Mr. Pangalos hopefully.
“What can you do with a
hundred pounds these days?”
“I wasn’t counting on any-
thing too lavish.”
“Look-a, Pangalos, I don’t
suppose you’ve considered this
aspect; but my son and I, we
have a certain social position to
maintain.”
“Only too well I realise it. I
say-a to Daphne ...”
MR. KASADIAS airily waved
him to silence. “And that
means our friends will expect a
fashionable wedding and a large
reception. A hundred is a drop
in the ocean. Where would you
stage it? At the Acropolis, I
suppose. Look, I like-a your
daughter and I want-a my son
to be happy, so I pay.”
The other’s face brightened,
but Mr. Kasadias went on: “I
pay, but the dowry money, the
thousand pounds, anyway,
comes to me for the trouble and
expense of-a doing your job.
You arrange that with Uncle
Niki. I give-a the dowry. Five-
thousand I’ll give, but the money
comes-a from me. They’ll have
to look to me. She must realise
that from the start.”
Mr. Pangalos had been observ-
ing the speaker closely, and
reluctantly made up his mind.
“I quite agree,” he said.
“You’re-a the big man. Very
kind to take my Daphne in like
this.”
Mr. Kasadias smiled and
nodded. “I’m a businessman,
Pangalos. A marriage to a
certain extent is a business affair.
I feel you could-a do more for
the couple if you tried ; with my
help, that is. You see, I’ve-a
decided to open a new restaurant
in this area and put Demetrios
in charge. But I couldn’t quite
think of a position ; and then I
remembered a perfect place.
The old Acropolis. Now when
do you reckon we can have-a
the lease assigned.”
Mr. Pangalos sprang to his
feet. “Not at all. There won’t
be no assignment. How do you
think Pangalos-a live, eh? Starve
like a dog for all you care!”
“Don’t be so undignified,
Pangalos,” murmured Mr.
Kasadias blandly. “Let me
explain something. My son
loves-a your daughter. All right.
Unfortunate, but all right; she’s
a nice girl, and she’s-a got class.
The only thing against her is
you. So if you want the marriage
to go on you’il-a do like 1
suggest. You’ll assign the lease.
You’ll take the managership of
one of my country branches.
You ■ could get in my hair,
Pangalos, so I’m going to comb
you out, right from the word
go.”
“My Daphne won’t stand for
you push her old man round
like-a the old bag,” prophesied
Mr. Pangalos ominously.
“She won’t know,” said Mr.
Kasadias. “She won’t ever
know how it is, or you won’t
have a job.”
“The boy will-a help.”
“If he does he won’t have a
job either.”
“What can I do?” sighed Mr.
Pangalos. “You’ve-a tied my
hands.”
“You’re a sensible fellow,”
agreed the tactician. “Have
another drink. Then we can talk
details.”
SOME weeks later Mr.
Pangalos paid a visit to
Izadore Glass, estate-agent and
financier. You would never have
dreamed that ruin and virtual
exile faced him, for his step was
jaunty and he whistled blithely.
The great Glass glanced
hurriedly up from a file of
accounts and rubbed his hands
benignly. “Well, well, Art,” he
said. “Glad to see you. Happy
you dropped in. Got a little
investment here that might be
right in your line.”
Mr, Pangalos said “Let’s-a go
inside, Izzy, so we can talk
private.”
Mr. Glass was thin and
stooped, with a high nasal voice
and a high bony forehead. His
office was dusty, and littered
with papers, and badly needed
painting.
“How can you live in a place
like this, Izzy?” said Mr.
Pangalos.
“Business is not good. Art,”
sighed the great Glass. “The
children to clothe and the taxes
to pay.” He removed his glasses
and wiped them. “Not good,”
he said.
“Listen, Izzy. I want to talk
to you.”
“You want to buy a lot?”
asked Mr. Glass hopefully.
“Now is the time to buy. There’s
a new subdivision I have ...”
“Izzy,” said Mr. Pangalos
reproachfully. “All these years
we’ve-a been friends and you
try to cheat me.”
“It’s habit.” Mr. Glass shook
his head. “I had no chance. I
knew it. But I have my profes-
sional pride.”
“Fm-a going to assign my
lease of the Acropolis to
Kasadias,” said Mr. Pangalos,
and sat back to watch the effect
of his bombshell.
Izadore Glass was numbered
among those erstwhile friends
whom Mr. Kasadias had con-
veniently forgotten. His sallow
face flushed. He said “It’s a
great mistake. Art.”
“Can you have the papers
drawn up?”
“It’s not wise,” said Mr. Glass.
“It lacks enterprise. It’s com-
mercial suicide.”
“His son Demetri is-a to marry
my Daphne.”
The eyes of the great Glass
grew round behind their lenses.
“There’s money in that,” he
decided.
“I don’t-a like Kasadias, mind
you. Who does? Kasadias. Who
else?” No reply. “I say:
Kasadias, your son loves-a my
Daphne and she loves him. All
right. That’s-a love. Pangalos
won’t-a stand in the way of love.
But that Demetrios —he’s-a not
beautiful, and he’s-a not too
bright. And I want security for
my girl.”
“Quite proper,” said Mr.
Glass. “A very strong line.”
Mr. Pangalos looked gratified.
“I say: Tell you what we do. I
transfer the Acropolis to you and
I take the Athens,”
Mr. Glass whistled. “Shrewd,”
he conceded.
“It’s-a justice.”
“Is it true?”
“Would I lie to you, Izzy?”
Mr. Pangalos took the great man
by the shoulder. “When does
the lease expire? Today. How
you think I know that, eh?”
“I told' you,” said Mr. Glass
frankly, “weeks ago.”
“He’s-a said nothing about
renewing?”
“No.” The great man was
dubious. “I took that he would
as a matter of course.”
“Take nothing for granted.
There’s no option for renewal?”
“No.”
Mr. Pangalos shrugged elabor-
ately. “So, what do I tell you.”
Mr. Glass suddenly saw a
great light. “For a hundred I'll
do it, Art,” he said.
“Seventy-five.”
“Done.” Mr. Glass knew the
value of compromise.
“I want it signed-up quick, and
no mistakes.”
“You don’t trust me, Art,”
said Mr. Glass ; and his heart
filled with sorrow. He sniffed
unhappily and blew his nose.
T' HEREAFTER, events moved
1 rapidly. A crestfallen Mr.
Pangalos signed over the Acro-
polis. The time was chosen in-
conveniently for Mr. Kasadias,
who had to rush off immediately
to a tea he was staging in the
bride’s honor.
Then the wedding was upon
them. Only a Greek understands
how such affairs should be
carried out. A bishop officiated ;
and the crowns exchanged by the
happy couple were symbolic of
the whole occasion. It took the
good priest days to rid his church
of the last clots of candle-grease.
The reception was royal, and the
guests dined like princes. Mr.
Kasadias, an old hand at cater-
ing, was quite prepared to admit
that he had excelled himself.
Prominently displayed among
the other gifts were three
cheques, though it was privately
understood that Uncle Niki’s
thousand pounds would go to
Mr. Kasadias and had merely
been put there for show.
Demetrios made a charming
speech; and there were not a
few moist eyes, including those
of Mr. Pangalos; while Daphne
looked at her husband so lov-
ingly that everyone agreed they
had never seen a more radiant
bride.
When they were all gone, and
Mr. Kasadias had returned home
alone, he sat for a time in his
beautiful study curiously de-
pressed. He wished he had
someone with whom to share
the moment. He would have
liked his wife to be there. But
then he recalled what a shrewish
woman she had been, clicked his
tongue impatiently and padded
off to bed.
THE following morning he
remembered the lease. It
rather annoyed him to think the
wedding had put such an
important matter from his mind.
All in all, however, he felt the
world was an excellent place to
live in. As he looked from his
window the garden seemed to
drift up to him in a haze of soft,
golden light, and the leaves, the
individual blades of grass glowed
with an inner radiance of their
own. The fluid voices of birds
in his plane-trees were warm and
reassuring. It was foolish to let
small things worry one on such
a morning.
Reluctantly he picked up the
telephone and dialled the agent’s
number, resolving to allow him-
self the remainder of the week
free.
The next few moments
wrought a terrible change in his
mood. He blustered. He raged.
And when he finally crashed the
receiver down and sank into a
chair, the import of what he had
heard stunned him. He had the
Acropolis, but the Athens was
no longer his.
He had been outsmarted ; out-
manoeuvred. He, who held the
restaurant business in the palm
of his hand, had been hounded
ignominiously from his favorite
site by a fat little scoundrel who
had eaten his food, drunk his
wine and, worst of all, married
off a daughter to his son.
At this moment came a dis-
creet tap at the door. “Leave me
alone! ” thundered Mr. Kasadias.
The tap was repeated and the
door opened to reveal his secre-
tary, a vague, pale young man
with blond hair and a blond
whisp of moustache, standing
nervously on the threshold.
“Are-a you deaf?” his
employer put to him, “Don’t-a
you hear what I say?”
“Sorry, but this is important.’
“You want to tell me I’ve-a
lost the Athens. I know that,
you fool.”
“Lost the Athens! ” The secre-
tary was obviously perplexed.
“Never mind. What > s
important?”
“That cheque. The one for 2
thousand pounds you gave
last night. It’s been dishonored
No account in that name, the>
said. What shall Ido . . . ?”
The secretary stopped aghast-
Mr. Kasadias had hidden nis
face in his hands and was sob-
bing like a little child.
PROVERB
Complaint is less than useless
And nothing can be done
Now tilted sky has spilled
An undisciplined sun.
Through every cranny, to every
corner
Bright liquids run. '
All that the heart can venture
Dazzled with pouring day
Is to step over puddles of sun-
light
As best it may
Till the great dark cat comes
thirstily
Licking the stuff away.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


ARTS
Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording instruments
for an jr clast of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
'o*sTluvas%lL
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
a
JACK
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARKEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAREBRE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
barrere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3b), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
rV
Missing Friends
LOWE. —Will any person knowing the
whereabouts of HAROLD LINDSAY
LOWE and NEIL CLIFFORD LOWE
(sons of HORACE LINDSAY LOWE),
formerly of Dickens Street Moonee
Ponds, Victoria), and CHARLES LOWE
(son of BARKER LOWE), or any infor-
mation concerning them, please communi-
cate with HODGSON & FINLAYSON,
Solicitors, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WOULD O. W. NOROROVE, or anyone
knowing anything of him or his present
whereabouts, please communicate urgently
with B. McKEOWN, Box 294, Post Office,
Tully, N.Q.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of LESLEY ADELAIDE KELLY (nee
BURNIE), formerly of Koroit, and be-
lieved to be in Port Melbourne, kindly
communicate with JONES & KENNEDY,
Solicitors, of 213 Nicholson Street,
Footscray.
Public Notice
I, KARIN WINTER, of German nation-
ality, born at Berlin, resident 16 years in
Australia, now residing at Nurses’ Home,
Callan Park Hospital, Rozelle, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I ||
y INCREASED PRODUCTION means earlier delivery
II
r»bs
-7.il
KS?
;r':
vn
£
*'**?»•>
ii'N*
= £ W
live
:'u\h
C j
Today’s best utility value
because it combines..
6 CYLINDER POWER
mfipemmmcß
30MMBC0N0MY
Holden Utility is the only utility to
combine all these features. The-6 cylinder, 21
h.p. O.H.V. engine gives you power for quick
acceleration, for speed when you want it and
easy hill climbing with a full capacity load. 30
m.p.g. economy, and dependable, trouble-free
running means lower running costs, higher
profits.
For performance with economy, good looks with
rugged strength, driving comfort combined
with room to take a bulky load, your best buy
is Holden Coupe Utility.
See your Holden Dealer about early delivery.
* Petrol economy of 30 m.p.g. is based on
actual owners’ reports from all over Australia.
Compare These Features
6 cylinder O.H.V. Engine
21 horsepower
30 m.p.g. economy
Integral Construction
High power-to-weight ratio
Passenger car comfort
Smart good looks
Roomy pay-load area
Built specially
for Australian Conditions
Immediate availability of
genuine spare parts and
specialised service
throughout Australia.
“UTILITY OWNERS TELL WHY THEY
PREFER KOLDEN COUPE UTILITY”
Farmers, graziers, engineers, build-
ers, butchers, grocers, signwriters,
dairymen, salesmen, plumbers all
praise HOLDEN UTILITY perform-
ance, dependability, suitability and
economy in the new booklet,
“UTILITY OWNERS TELL WHY
THEY PREFER HOLDEN COUPE
UTILITY.”
Ask your Holden Dealer for a copy.
rhportukrtrr
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Utility
★ There are two Air Chief Radios specially
designed for Holden.
★ Convenient Hire Purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C. Ceneral
Motors own finance company .
5059
•;V- v
GENERAL M 0 T OR S ■ H OMEN’S LTD
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy, to complete file, the fol-
lowing issues of “The Lone Hand” :
July, October, December, 1908 ; April,
August, October, 1909; October,
1910; February, May, August, 1912;
September and November, 1913. —
5335.
To buy Tales of the Isle of Death
and Beautiful Bathurst by Price
Waning.—s 336.
To buy Yol. I, Nos. 1 to 6, 10 and
11, “Meanjin Papers”; Vol. I, No. 1,
“Southerly”; Queensland Poets by
Kellow; and Six Australian Poets by
T. Inglis Moore. —5337.
To correspond with readers in-
terested in books dealing with Pacific
voyages.—s33B.
To hear from readers who can
recall any details connected with Jack
London’s visits to Australia. (Reply
direct to Mr. Lee Weinberg, 167
West 60th-street, New York, N.Y.,
U.
Cuttings or copies of Edward
Dyson’s verses, as well as copies of
early ballads.—s 339.
To buy set of Bradford wool-types
cards issued by The Bulletin “Man
on the Land” page some years ago.—
5344.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter. —s 347.
Information Sought
Why is the Army orderly-room so
called ?
The adjective “orderly” has, as one
of its meanings, “Pertaining to, or
charged with the transmission or
execution of, military orders.” Hence
the use of the word in such Army
terms as “orderly-officer,” “orderly-
sergeant,” etc. The orderly-room is
the room in barracks used to keep
records and the like and for discip-
linary and other unit business.
* * * *
Particulars of a battle against the
Red Indians known as the Big
Cimarron ?
Unable to trace any battle so
named. According to the U.S.
Information Library, Cimarron Cross-
ing (near the present site of Cimarron,
Kansas) was the scene of one of the
worst disasters in the history of the
Santa Fe Trail. In 1868 17 stage-
coach passengers were captured and
burned there. This attack, it says, is
not known as “The Big Cimarron”
nor is it referred to as a battle. So
many skirmishes with the Indians in
those days have been romantically
called battles that it is difficult to
know where the line can be drawn
between a battle and a mere attack.
* * * *
Would it be possible to make a
jet-turbine engine to generate elec-
tricity using coal-dust as fuel ?
It is quite possible to develop
coal-burning gas-turbine engines for
use in all parts of Australia, particu-
larly for the generation of electricity
and for railway locomotive engines.
These turbines can be fired with
pulverised coal from the different
local fields. In this regard work is
in hand in the C.5.1.R.0. laboratory
to assess the Yallourn brown coal as
a possible fuel. There are many
advantages over the conventional
steam-turbine plant, such as higher
efficiency in smaller units, smaller
size, rapidity of starting and flexi-
bility of operation, as well as not
needing a supply of softened water.
* * * *
Treatment suggested for internal
walls where the rendering is cracking
and completely breaking away from
the pise walls?
All cracked or drummy sections of
rendering should be removed, expos-
ing the sound pise wall. Flat-headed
nails or roofing-nails at least 3in.
long should be driven into the wall
at 12-18 in. centres until projecting
to about i-|in. from the face of the
pise. To this secure bird-wire held
about |-|in. from the wall. Plaster
with a 1:3 or 1:4 cement-render
with about 10-15 p.c. of lime by
weight of the cement to make the
mix more workable, This new render
can be worked into the existing
sound rendering. The walls can later
be painted with any type of paint to
suit the usage of the room and the
taste of the occupier. For example,
kitchen or bathroom walls should
always be finished with a gloss oil
paint; use of this type of paint
requires that any new rendering be
left for at least three months, and
preferably longer, before painting,
and is then treated with a suitable
cement-sealer before the use of the
oil paint. For living-rooms, where
a light wall-finish is desirable, cement-
based paints are more suitable.
Brief Answers
F.G.W.: Evidently your skin is
allergic to the chemicals used in
curing the leather or the latter has
been carelessly dressed. Clean the
collar well with a good shoe-cream
and rub it very smooth and dry with
a silk cloth. If the complaint still
persists all you can do is to wear a
scarf inside the collar... .J.H.F.:
Yes, full details were printed in the
Service Page of The Bulletin of
December 5, 1951... .F.T.F.: Will
Lawson’s “Bargo River” appeared in
The Bulletin of May 29, 1940
P.T.: Frank Sargeson was born in
New Zealand in 1903, qualified as a
solicitor, worked in law offices, as a
civil servant and as a market-gar-
dener. His publications include A
Man and His Wife and That Summer
I Saw in My Dream... .W.S.; J. F.
Archibald died on September 10,
1919... .W.W.: Write Public Trustee,
Public Trust Office, 19 O’Connell-
street, Sydney R.P.S.: “British
Book News,” published for the
British Council by the National Book
League, 7 Albermarle-street, London.
. ...N.M.A.: Auckland Public Lib-
raries, 1880-1950 by John Barr, pub-
lished by the Library Committee of
Auckland City, Auckland (N.Z.).
N.K.W.: Write the Australian
Museum, College-street, Sydney, for
leaflet No. 16, “Spiders Harmful to
Man,” by A. Musgrave D.R.:
Write Australian Institute of Political
Science, 34 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
F.J.P.: One Thousand and More
Place Names in New South Wales by
A. E. Martin, published by N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., Market and Castle-
reagh-streets, Sydney C.D.McD.:
Write Dux Heaters Pty., Ltd., 15
Hamilton-street, Sydney; Wardrope
and Carroll, 30-32 Riordan-street,
Alexandria (N.S.W.); Joseph Auto-
Hot Pty„ Ltd., 45 Market-street,
Sydney; and Simplex, 731 Darling-
street, Rozelle (N.S.W.) T.J.:
Write secretary, the Association of
Co-operative Building Societies, Ltd.,
166 Phillip-street, Sydney A.L.P.:
Try either Stanley Owen and Sons,
65 Clarence-lane, or George Carter,
545 George-street—both Sydney
B. : Write N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, Sydney, for plant disease
leaflet No. 38, “Root Knot or Root
Gall.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary .
R.T.: We were more impressed
with the letterhead than the verse.
.. . .R.H.: Try one of the literary
quarterlies T.J.H.: The office
steeplejack declared “The Spire” a
tottering edifice... .J.T.: Sometimes
we feel that Australia is full of poets
standing at street-corners idly specu-
lating about “moving crowds going
their silent and mysterious ways.”
J.A.W.: We could not resist
“Misunderstood”:
Said Farmer Bill: “You see that girl—
she’s fast,”
The maid he indicated seemed reserved,
And as she passed us by with eyes down-
cast,
I thought that love her heart had never
stirred.
“Don’t seem impressed?” the dairy cocky
said,
“Yet she’s a girl that any man might wed.
She does her fifty daily on her head,
And cleans up every milker in the shed.”
R.W.M.: It was washed out with
a crop of other rain-poems
VJ.S.: Tired of sad poems written
at dusk while seated on a rock under
a gum-tree LJ.: Missed by a
thousand miles.., .J.J.J.: Too bad
to use even as a horrible example.
D.V.F.: “Spring Garden Fever”
merely gave us hay-fever J.E.8.:
Has the appearance of having been
written on a wet bar-counter during
the jostle of the five-to-six rush
D.J.N.: It is seldom that poets who
are “in the habit of composing little
poems just to fill in time” ever catch
an editor’s eye....P.C.: Percy called
for something a little better than that.


THE CHAIN SAW
FAMOUS AMONG TIMBEKMEN COAST TO CO»ST
i
m
m
m ;■
This is a push-over for the Mall Model 7C Chain Saw
GENERAL INFORMATION A powerhouse cutting unit portable enough to
get into the thickest timber and get the big ones out faster! A time-proven sturdy
gasoline engine power unit that’s easy to operate and makes the saw a cinch to use.
The saw now available is an improved version of the Mall Chain Saws now cutting
timber all over the world . . . now you get lighter weight with more power. Will
cut all kinds of timber—hard, soft, frozen or wet. Easily operated by one man on
fallen logs. See it demonstrated at your local Mall Chain Saw Dealer.
CUTTING CHAIN Made of high grade saw steel developed after years of
experiment and research. Saw teeth are heat treated and hardened for long life.
Rivets are inspected for all important dimensions before use. | inch kerf standard Mall
chains furnished with all sizes of saws.
SPARE PARTS AND SERVICE
are available for your immediate needs.
CUTTING DIAMETERS
AND PRICE LIST
Prices include two cutting chains'and
are F.0.8./F.O.R. Sydney.
24 inch capacity
36
46
60
72
99
99
99
99
£289
£296
£304
£313
£323
ORDERS PLACED NOW WILL ENSURE
DELIVERY IN NOVEMBER
Enquire from your local dealer or direct to —
Walter A. Cox Pty. Ltd., 193 Clarence St., Sydney.
Phone: BX 5656. Telegrams: Coxcom, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fat Lambs
“Woolaway”: Elimination of
superfluous breeds of mutton
sheep would be simple but for
two factors, climate and pre-
judice. My own prejudice is that,
when selecting a ram to breed
fat-lambs, it is better to forget
about wool and go for weight
and quality of mutton wrapped
in a shapely frame.
In hot climates such as
Northern Victoria and Riverina,
where most of our best fat-lambs
are produced, too much wool is
too much of a burden for a lamb
to carry and fatten. This
accounts for the popularity of
Dorset Horns in those regions.
Not even the Border Leicester
carries less weight of wool in
proportion to size of frame than
the Dorset. Both breeds stand
up well in the selling-pens and
dress-up into shapely carcasses
on the hooks, and must be given
consideration where country and
climate are suitable.
Only two of the many Downs
breeds are worth consideration,
the Southdown and the Ryeland.
Their greatest merit is their
thrift and quick maturity, plus
pre-eminent quality of mutton ;
their only fault is they don’t look
as good as they really are, and
their brown heads and points
rule them out as a store lamb
when their sucker days are over
should they fail to fatten on their
dams—an unlikely contingency.
For wormy or cold country
the Romney Marsh is the out-
standing sheep, but he carries
too much wool for hot climates.
The same must be said of the
English Leicester. This beautiful
sheep is now being bred to rival
the Lincoln as a breeder of first-
cross sheep, thus losing its
ascendancy as a mutton sheep.
Outing the Brigalow
“Outback”: Jack Mulckey, of
Bungunya, 60 miles from
Goondiwindi (S.Q.), has trans-
formed brigalow-belah country
into oat paddocks yielding up to
V t tons of hay to the acre, all
in 12 months.
When he took over the pro-
perty five years ago he spent
“three days looking for his
house” in the scrub. For his
scrub - eradication work he
bought an International T.D.9
crawler and bulldozer; find-
ing the ’dozer’s 19ft. blade too
slow, he invented an attachment
which gave the blade twice its
normal cutting width. This huge
scythe, at a field day, slashed a
20ft. wide path through a 30ft.
high scrub, with much of its
undergrowth a barrier of
brigalow suckers.
Cost of the mechanical clear-
ing is 7s. per acre in whipstick
scrub and 14s. in taller brigalow,
compared with about £5 per acre
for manual clearing of suckers,
and up to £2 per acre for tall
timber.
Last January Mulckey planted
70 acres of oats as an experi-
ment, and, as it grew too fast for
sheep, bullocks had to be grazed
on it. Visitors to the field day
saw a 40-acre patch yield about
90 bales of hay to the acre.
There is a very large area of
brigalow-belah scrub in Queens-
land which could be made
similarly productive, and
nuee^
[O,
“Gee, Nug, you make love just like Clark Cable!”
Mulckey’s experiments are
being watched.
Tree Seedlings
“Breck”: Early spring is a
good time to transplant tree
seedlings to the permanent site.
Choose a dull day minus wind.
Have the holes ready. This
ensures that the trees are the least
time out of the soil and least
likely to suffer a setback.
Young trees moved from a
nursery-bed need a good ball of
earth around the roots to pro-
tect them from the cold air.
If moved from a tin, cut away
the bottom of the tin and slit the
side, leaving the soil intact.
Holes should be dug square ;
the roots will then seek the edges
and corners and spread ; in. a
round hole they become pot-
bound.
Make the holes 2ft. square
and 18in. deep. Where soils are
hard and clayey holes should be
left exposed to sun, wind and
rain to sweeten the earth and
make it friable. Lime should not
be added ; it will burn the young
roots.
A 3in. layer of rotted leaves
or old horse-manure placed in
the bottom of the hole acts as a
good fertiliser.
Bring the soil to a fine tilth.
Soil taken out last must go back
first and top-soil must again be
placed on top. Firm the mass
with the back of the spade and
soak well. Make a hole in the
centre of it and place the young
tree in it slightly below earth-
level. A layer of grass placed
on top helps conserve moisture.
All young trees should be
staked and protected from stock
and rabbits.
Nut-grass
“8.J.L.”: If nuKgrass is
sprayed with the well-known
2,4-D mixture it will die down
to the first nut. Unfortunately it
will shoot up again, but in the
meantime a growing crop will
have had a month or so respite
from the pest.
In sugar areas two or three
sprayings should be sufficient to
allow the cane to give complete
coverage of the soil and thus
blot out the pest until the next
season.
Nut-grass can be spread in
many ways. Those free from
the scourge will go to great
lengths to keep it off their land.
Years ago I saw a Queensland
farmer racing madly along his
boundary yelling and hullooing
in an attempt to head off a. flock
of brolgas hundreds of feet
above him. They had been feed-
ing in an infested field, and he
swore they carried nuts on their
feet and the nuts dropped off
during flight.
Poll Shorthorns
“Frank H.”: The Poll Short-
horn Society, one of the youngest
breed-societies in Australia, has
published its eighth stud-book in
17 years. It tells the statistical
story of the development of the
breed in Australia.
The authors claim that D. S.
McLarty, of Lone Pine Estate,
Bundure Siding (N.S.W.), whose
herd was kept “absolutely pure
since 1874,” bred poll animals
longer than any other person in
Australia. C. A. Munro, of
Arcot, Silverspur (Q.), was
always a keen student of short-
horn cattle. On many occasions
he referred to a herd of pure Poll
Shorthorns he was breeding
from sports obtained from
Weebollabolla, a herd founded
in 1849 by Hall Bros., of Dart-
brook, Scone (N.S.W.), and
transferred to Weebollabolla in
1868.
Much research went into the
volume, copies of which will be
donated to the Mitchell Library
(Sydney) and other public
libraries for preservation as a
historical record.
Bulls for Soldiers
“C.S.”: Twenty-one pedigree
Aberdeen-Angus bulls have now
been offered through the
Aberdeen-Angus Society to
Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments for distribution free to
returned soldier-settlers.
The scheme, initiated last
month, provides for the creation
of a pool of bulls throughout
the Commonwealth. Authorities
administering soldier-settlement
schemes in each State will, after
inspecting the animals, arrange
for their transportation to
selected centres for service in
herds owned by ex-servicemen.
The Aberdeen-Angus Society
will effect transfers of the bulls
to the chosen settlers so that the
progeny, if the bulls are mated
with registered dams, will become
eligible for herdbook regis-
tration.
Beating Bushfires
“M.M.”: A.B.C, will broadcast
two discussions on “What Can
Be Done to Beat the Bushfire
Menace” ; one at 8.40 p.m. on
Oct. 20 and the other at the
same time on Oct. 27. First three
speakers are A. O. Lawrence,
Vic. Forests Commission, R. W.
Fincham, representing insurance
companies, and H. E. Elliott, of
a big farm-produce co-operative
concern. On Oct. 27 will be
heard the same A. O. Lawrence,
with George Knight, grazier and
bushfire - brigade captain of
Bourke-Byrock (N.S.W.), and R.
Nankervis, councillor and busb-
fire brigade captain of Beecb-
worth (Vic.).
Tick-eradication
“Oxo”: A campaign fo r
eradication of cattle-tick m
Queensland is gaining momen-
tum, but some people are urg-
ing caution. Cattlemen on the
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The recent southern sunspots produced their usual
effect in increasing the intensity of the early October rains
(as I had indicated). This showed once again the great
immediate importance of these wonderful phenomena, whose
importance I have vainly been asking my scientific confreres
to recognise.
Under the present cycle, except in the south, early
October weather should have been fine, but from about
now further storms and rains may be expected. Rains
should soon be reported from the drought-stricken north.


/jSSA
♦
i&
Just a Few
Cows
to Milk?
Then YOU Need the
“DANGAR - GEM’
K-yl
£
m ii
-A :f.
1
The "Dangar-Gem" is the "great"
little milker specially designed for
that small herd. It is simple to op-
erate, completely self-contained,
and available with either 1 h.p.
J.A.P. engine or 1/3rd. h.p. elec-
tric motor.
No special installations or shed
conditions are required, and the
"Dangar-Gem" can be thoroughly
washed and cleaned in about five
minutes. By the addition of
doubling-up attachments, the little
"Dangar-Gem" can milk two cows
at once without any loss of power!
Sole Distributors:
Dangar. Gedye & Malloch Ltd.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young St., Sydney
Branches: Melbourne, Wagga, Hay, Newcastle
and Lismore.
AMAZING NEW AIR JET
Bicycle Speedometer
See what speed you are
doing. Works same way as
aircraft speed indicator.
Clip on handlebars. Large,
easily read dial. Shows
speed up to 50 m.p.h 12/6
posted.
thrth
ALBA ENGINEERING CO.,
Box 32, P.O. Camperdown, N.S.W.
VDy
huh ]jii
Perfect Meals . . .
and Piping-Hot Water
including 3 Baths a day!
It’s a wise husband who buys his wife an Aga, so they
both “live happily ever after”. With the two capacious
Aga ovens and the two efficient hot-plates you can
prepare the most wonderful meals, efficiently and
easily; and so coolly, too, thanks to Aga’s insulation.
This amazing coke-burning Cooker is ready for service
day or night, yet its low fuel consumption is guaran-
teed! The Aga is also quite impervious to power
restrictions and blackouts. Furthermore, the Aga Model
C.B. gives you an efficient hot water service, with three
hot baths a day, from the same small single fire!
S'*
O'
o.
THE
AGA
YEARS
GUARANTEE
The British-built Ago
is guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
COOKER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for the AG A COOKER and
BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _________ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND „ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIA
MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
SB
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
rth
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
r
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
TKe simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instil a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY GO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:”
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edmcnt’s Building,
Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P. Melnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
coast believe that, while it will be
hard to control tick in north-
western, Gulf and Cape York
Peninsula areas, where runs are
large and a lot of country is
unfenced, it should not be so
hard in the coastal cattle coun-
try, say from the border to north
of Townsville.
Even confining the campaign
to this area would be a colossal
undertaking, and it is not easy
to visualise every grazier and
dairyman being willing to co-
operate. Without co-operation
eradication will be impossible. It
is frequently stated, in support
of the campaign, that the U.S.A.
cleaned-up the tick, but the
severe winter in America would
be a great help, whereas there
are ticks in Queensland practi-
cally all the year round, though
they are not so troublesome in
the cooler months. Further, the
arsenic-resistant tick has ’ not
been found in the U.S.A.
Dr. John Legg, Director of
Research at the Animal Health
Station, Yeerongpilly (Q.), says
D.D.T. was innocent of toxity
for cattle, but there had been
reports from Queensland and
overseas of stock losses follow-
ing dipping and spraying with
B.H.C.
Toxaphene (one of the newer
insecticides), he says, is danger-
ous at times, apparently for
young calves, but not for older
cattle, and he regrets that more
money is not being made avail-
able for research work in con-
nection with new insecticides
g P D| a a n „dRH P r yinS - ,KtS
u.u. 1 . ana
—,
Eye Cancer
“Tik”: I do not think eye-
cancer is caused mainly through
knocks in constant dipping (B
24/9/’52). I know of eye-cancer
in Herefords in far-east Gipps-
land (Vic.), where dipping is
unknown, knocks of any ’sort
are rather unlikely and a cool
climate makes sun-scald equally
unlikely. More likely it is
hereditary. I know of a property
where cancer is prevalent, and
is apparently passed on from
mother to daughter.
Every cancerous beast should
be destroyed. When there is
cattle compensation there is no
excuse for not destroying them.
Hints for the Farm
“Sundowner”: He r e is an
insecticide which may be simply
mixed and is valuable against
insects and fleas and for clean-
ing greasy hands. To a pint of
water add 3ylb. of soft soap.
Simmer over a fire and stir con-
stantly until all lumps have dis-
appeared and a uniform melt
has been obtained. Add 6oz. of
refined naphthalene and stir
until dissolved. Remove from
fire, add a pint of kerosene and
stir until all ingredients are well
mixed. The finished product
should be semi-solid and of uni-
form texture. Use at a strength
of 2oz. to a gallon of water.
“M.”: Pastures reserved for
grass-hay will benefit from a
harrowing to spread droppings
and from a dressing of super, in
early spring. A moderate rather
than a heavy cut of grass is
desirable, producing a better-
quality hay which is easier to
cure, is less exhausting on the
soil and does not have an
adverse effect on subsequent
growth.
“Baroona”: In spring remove
all old leaves from silver-beet
and anything dead which may
harbor slugs and grubs. With the
removal of the outer leaves the
young stuff gets more room and
more sunlight for growing.
Mulch heavily, especially where
dry conditions demand much
watering. Unless the manure is
well mixed with straw throw on
a liberal amount of dry grass.
“Allium”: Under dry condi-
tions thrips can be troublesome
in seed-production of onions.
The newer insecticides such as
aldrin and chlordane, now
obtainable locally, are more
effective than D.D.T. in the
control of these insects.
“Quorn”: Rhubarb is best
when young and tender, and
makes an excellent preserve
when taken at this stage. It also
makes excellent jam or chutney.
In spring add a generous collar
of fresh cow-manure to each
plant. It is better if a trench is
dug and the manure placed in it.
Watering directly into the trench
assures the plant a rich supply
of food.
“Old G.”; When silage has to
be fed to cows distribute it on
the poorest part of the paddock.
The droppings which accumulate
where the animals stand are
valuable fertilisers.
“Sundowner”: Armillaria
root-rot in orchards —prevalent
in newly-cleared land —may be
retarded by broadcasting sul-
phate of iron at per square
yard. Cut out all affected roots.
“Big Billy”: Keep pigs out of
pasture during wet periods, as
pugging will ruin the area for
spring- and summer-feeding. If
pigs are kept in their pens for
any length of time feed ilb. to
lib. of meatmeal and roots each
day.
“Billjim”: Laying poultry
need two forms of grit—one rich
in lime, such as oyster-shell, and
a hard metal grit which lodges
in the gizzard and is used for
grinding up food already eaten.
“My”; To control hydatids
don’t feed the dog raw offal (par-
ticularly abattoir scraps), and
dose him at regular eight-weekly
intervals for tapeworm with
arecoline hydrobromide given in
water by mouth —} to | grain,
depending on the size of the
dog.
“M.”: A new method of seal-
ing stack silage is to spread a
layer of sappy young material on
top of the stack, allow the whole
to settle for a few days and then
run the tractor backward and
forward over it for half an hour.
Repeated for three or four con-
secutive days, the whole mass is
consolidated and the immature
upper layer is reduced to a
mushy pulp which sets to form
an effective air-seal.
“Myrr”: Apple, pear and
berry fruit-growers are warned
by Vic. Department of Agricul-
ture to look out for thrips on
their trees and canes. The pest
is giving signs that it could be
bad this year. If thrips are seen
spray with a D.D.T. emulsion
0.1 per cent., or parathion one-
third pint in lOOgal. of water.
Powder forms of D.D.T. are not
recommended. Parathion users
are warned against spilling the
concentrated chemical on their
bare skin or inhaling spray drift.
“C.A.A.”: Light dustings
with a combination containing
D.D.T, copper and sulphur
applied every 10 to 14 days will
control tomato-moth and other
diseases in early tomatoes. For
tomato-mite use a dust contain-
ing 60 per cent, of fine sulphur
and 40 per cent, of hydrated
lime.
“Narrin”; Before assembling
new beehives coat the outside
surfaces and all grooves with a
primer—one coat is sufficient.
This preserves the wood. Give
the usual coats to the assembled
hives. Many beekeepers use
silver paint these days, but the
traditional white is more attrac-
tive. v
A Victorian Aberdeen-Angus
cow. Bald Blair Eclipse 4th, has
created what is believed to be a
breed record by bearing, at the
age of 16, a heifer calf. The
cow, owned by V. and R.
McDonald, Carramar, Caven-
dish, is in splendid condition and
mothering the calf.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Cost-accountants
During the last few years I’ve seen
from the inside the growing influence of
the cost-accountant on the policies and
management of a manufacturing firm. I
have come to the conclusion that, unless
kept in his place, the c.-a. is a menace.
The c.-a. has essentially a one-track
mind. He is obsessed by the necessity of
never selling anything for less than it
costs to manufacture. In compiling his
cost sheets he takes into account, as well
as such known factors as value of
materials used, wages paid, etc., those
much more nebulous costs usually
grouped under the title of “overhead.” I’ve
yet to meet a c.-a. who could resist the
temptation to overestimate his overhead
items —a fraction here, a fraction there,
“just to keep on the safe side.” The cost-
sheet he places before his management is
therefore not a true bill; it conceals a
nice little margin of hidden profit.
The trouble is that a management,
with the c.-a. hovering round like
conscience, ends by sharing his obsession.
It forgets that the c.-a.’s job is merely to
keep it informed what its goods cost to
make; it permits him to dictate at what
price they should be sold. Everything
must be sold at a profit, or not sold at
all. In the c.-a.’s philosophy there is no
room for adventure, for the bold decision
to sacrifice a line below cost to capture
a market, for balancing the loss on this
against the gain on that, for using a cut-
price as a bait, or for cutting _ losses
generally and getting on with the job.
That attitude has a lot to do with our
present state of business stagnation.
Every storekeeper, warehouseman, manu-
facturer tells the same story—shelves
crammed with goods which the public
will nob buy because it considers prices
too high. How is it that public pressure
has not forced prices ddwn so much as
you could notice? Why does the manu-
facturer glumly halt his machines and
put off his men? Why doesn’t he say
“To hell with what the goods cost! I’ll
go broke just as surely if they rot on the
shelves as if I sell them at a loss. Put
them on the market at prices the public
will pay, get the warehouse empty, the
machines turning and the men earning
and spending again!”
Certainly before he can do that he
will have to gag his c.-a. —but that’s
what I’m recommending. And every
industrialist could benefit by forgetting
his cost-sheets and studying instead
“Standby’s” parable “High F'nance” (B.
24/9/’52), with its lesson that confidence,
not cash, oils the wheels of commerce.—
Icinit (N.S.W.).
Victorian Politics
Seats in the Victorian Parliament are
gerrymandered in an extraordinary way.
No party can obtain an absolute majority.
The position is justified on the ground
that adoption of Labor’s one-vote-one-
value slogan would threaten rural in-
terests. In fact, the set-up is designed to
keep Labor out of office, and by that test
it is certainly effective.
Anti-Labor forces know that, if Labor
eventually obtains office, it will retaliate
against this decades-old electoral dis-
crimination by bringing down a distri-
bution bill that will entrench it in office
in perpetuity. Such a course is not with-
out precedent in other Labor-governed
States.
Meanwhile the electoral injustice re-
mains, and stable government is virtually
impossible. Neither L.-C.P. nor C.P.
politicians will take any remedial step,
lest it result in Labor domination for
999 years.
Yet it should be possible for Parlia-
ment to legislate to prevent a future
Labor Government bringing down a Re-
distribution Bill to give it a perpetual
majority. It is established that a sovereign
Parliament cannot fetter its own future
action, but the case of Attorney-General
(N.S.W.) v. Trethowan decided that Par-
liament can limit its successors as to the
“manner and form” of passing future
legislation.
Possibly a bill (not to be repealed
without consent by referendum) provid-
ing that any future distribution of seats
be judicially approved as fair to all parties
would be constitutionally valid. Anyway,
the possibility should be explored with
a view to removing the inequities of the
present system, while guaranteeing that
Labor, when elected, cannot renew the
injustice in its favor.
That way we might get stable and
democratic government in Victoria. We
have neither now. —D. V. F. (Vic.).
Home-purchase
Low deposits for home-purchase are
not the solution to the home-ownership
problem (B. 17/9/’52). “F.G.5.,” with
his “years of practical experience as a
builder,” shpuld know that builders, more
than all the vendors, purchasers, agents
and bankers put together, are responsible
for the difficulties associated with home-
purchase.
By their rapacity builders have
massacred the home-building public and
brought about their own downfall. With
rise-and-fall clauses, no time-limits, the
cost-plus system and a general disinclina-
tion to do any job today that could be
put off until tomorrow, builders have
kicked building costs up to such a level
that it has become manifestly impossible
for a wage- or salary-earner to buy his
own home.
“F.G.S.” may have building experience,
but he has little idea of the finance angle,
going by his suggestion of £5O deposit
and the balance at £3 a week. On that
basis the repayment of the £3OOO. capital
sum —the cost of the average timber-
framed shack —would take 20 years if
the loan were granted interest-free.
The building industry is toying with a
suggestion that loan money should be
made available solely for new construc-
tion, a cockeyed scheme aimed at giving
builders another opportunity to exploit
the housing shortage. In fact, at least
one “old” dwelling changes hands for
each new one built and sold.
The solution lies firstly in the hands
of the building industry itself, evidence
being required of a purged soul and a
“He doesn’t remember his address , but that’s the spot."
determination to give the buying public
a fair spin. Such evidence is then likely
to induce the lending institutions to open
their hearts and money-bags. The
amount of finance contributed by the
Commonwealth Bank to the home-build-
ing programme was not substantial at
any time. The other sources of finance
lost interest in real property investment
when the industry, by its own bad habits,
forfeited the confidence of its clients.
The State Governments could help
quite a lot, too, by breaking down their
victimisation of owners of rented
property. At one time —pre-war, of course
—a substantial proportion of building
consisted of flats, duplex homes and semi-
detached cottages built for rental pur-
poses by investors. Hardly a unit of
this type has been built in the last 10
years because rent- and tenancy-controls
in the various States, 1 particularly N. S.
Wales, have rendered tenanted property
a liability instead of an asset.
There is a great deal of money about
that would quickly be diverted into this
form of investment with just a little
encouragement by way of an assured re-
turn on outlay and the right to say who
shall and who shall not occupy such
property. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
S.A. Electricity
“Citizen” (B. 17/9/’52) is unfair in
comparing S.A.’s Electric Supply Com-
pany and the Electricity Trust. Granted
the company functioned efficiently and
made a profit, but it was not converted
under Socialist pressure. It was con-
verted, thanks to Premier Tom Playford,
because the company refused to expand
to assist country industries and to use
Leigh Creek coal.
Since accounts have to be paid only
four times a year, surely it is better for us
to pay at the company’s office rather
than employ an army of collectors who
would have to be paid about £l4 a week.
You can’t blame the trust for rising costs,
but it will be acclaimed for putting cheap
power and light from Adelaide to Port
Augusta and Whyalla and across to Ren-
mark, Murray Bridge and Mannum and
all over the intervening country.
Ask the Port Augusta people what
they think of the vast new power-stations
going in. If Leigh Creek had not been
developed we would have been paying a
lot more for our power and light. And,
finally, ask Sydney what it thinks of a
city that hasn’t had blackouts since the
war. —J. C. (S.A.).
Unemployment
Although most people aren’t interested
or don’t believe it, unemployment in
N. S. Wales is increasing. It is far too
serious to be disregarded or treated as
political capital.
It has been said that Australians have
more vivid recollections of the depres-
sion of the ’thirties than they have of
two world wars. Another period of un-
employment like that would breed a
bitterness that would be a gift to the
Communists. Unemployment snowballs.
When wholesale Governmental sackings
take place the private trader, remember-
ing the lessons of the ’thirties, is not
going to be caught again, so off go some
of his staff. Then, with so many out
of work, purchasing-power is reduced and
off go a few more. Just as inflation
creates further inflation so does un-
employment create unemployment.
I hope that talk of dismissals on the
coalfields is only talk. It has taken 20
years to persuade the miner to build up
reserves of coal, and now that he’s done
it there’s talk of the very thing he was
most afraid of —dismissals. If miners are
put off because of lack of work it will
take 50, not 20, years to persuade them
to work to capacity.
Unemployment is what the Communists
have been waiting for. With a
preliminary “I told you so” they will find
plenty who will listen to them. If un-
employment reaches the stage of the dole
and the soup-kitchen it will take more
than anti-Communism bills to stop the
rise of Communism in this country.
What is causing unemployment in this
State? First, of course, is the “Labor”
Government, which will sacrifice even its
supporters if it can get at the Federal
Government that way. It is strange that
the Transport Department, which was
searching overseas for employees a yea!
ago,, is now putting off 1500,
Then there are the workers themselves.
Go-slow tactics have meant higher prices
and higher prices meant less demand.
Opportunities in overseas markets were
lost because the unions had a false idea of
what was necessary for a high standard of
living. They overlooked the fact that
there was a limit to what an employer
could give, and that permanency of em-
ployment was as important as short
hours.
Employers, too, have to take their share
of the blame for unemployment. Over-
bidding in the labor market, uneconomical
and out-of-date production methods,
shoddy goods and disregard for the
lessons of previous booms all helped to
put the prices of goods out of the reach
of both home and overseas markets.
If unemployment is to be halted those
who helped to cause it must try to undo
their mistakes. If the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment would try to co-operate with
the Federal Government something could
be achieved. It must make the best use
of the money allotted to it. If it were
possible to keep the works going last year
on the money available it is difficult to
see why so many works have to be closed
down this year.
Is it asking too much of the unions to
forgo any of the costly privileges they
have won in the boom ; or would they see
most of their members out of work
rather than yield an inch?
Unemployment could mean political
extinction for the Federal Liberal Gov-
ernment. The legend of “Menzies’s un-
employment pool” is still believed in
many quarters—though how anyone
could believe that a Government would
thus commit suicide I can’t understand.
Still, the Federal Government could im-
prove matters by lifting many of the
excessive sales-taxes. The reason for
imposing some of them —to force pro-
duction of essential goods—is hardly
valid now. —Rann (N.S.W.).
Wild Pigs
The usual method of hunting wild pigs
in N. S. Wales is to send dogs after the
animals, and while the grunters stand or
circle to protect themselves from snap-
ping jaws, “sportsmen” walk up and shoot
at short-range. - The only hazard is that
a stray bullet may hit a dog instead of
the defenceless pig. The dead pigs are
left to be eaten by crows or other pigs.
Country meatworks will buy live wild
pigs at so much per pound, but the diffi-
culty of catching the animals alive, and
the long transport involved, make pig-
hunting a risky financial proposition.
On the Macquarie near Warren, where
wild pigs are plentiful, mobile refrigera-
tion plants cater for rabbit-trappers. The
question of similar treatment of pigs has
apparently not been considered. Modern
equipment has brought these refrigera-
tion-plants to a high state of perfection,
and the freezing of pig carcasses is well
within their scope. —Ann (N.S.W.).
Compensation for Injury
The Plain English article on “Juries’
Accident Awards” (B. 8/10/’52) touches
an important subject.
Insurance companies and the N. S
Wales Government (presumably because
it operates an insurance company of its
own) are concerned at the huge sums
that have been awarded lately to victims
of accidents. Amounts running into
many thousands of pounds have been
awarded.
In all cases these awards have been
made by juries—citizens good and true,
no doubt, but possessed of what technical
or actuarial qualifications that enable
them to assess the monetary value of the
victims’ disabilities?
The argument advanced in favor of
these huge awards is that money has less
value today than it formerly had. True,
but the basic wage is about three times
what it was in 1939, whereas many awards
are 10 times what 1939 juries would have
made. # .
The question arises whether juries
should be asked to perform a duty which
calls for actuarial knowledge and skill, or
whether their responsibility should be
limited to deciding, on the evidence before
them, where the blame lies —whether the
victim is entitled to damages or not. Hav-
ing reached that decision, any,verdict ®
favor of a victim should then be referred
to a panel of experts to assess the
of compensation to be awarded.
average jury is pretty unpredictable*
Some fantastic damages have been
awarded almost coincidental with other
wholly inadequate awards that have had
to be referred back to the courts for re-
assessment of damages.— V. C. (N.S.W-).


Closer Settlement
A number of political and semi-
political pressure-groups have been urging
the dissection of large agricultural and
grazing properties for closer-settlement
—a theory which accords with that of
economist Colin Clark, who recommends
the encouragement of an agrarian
economy at the expense of the lighter
secondary industries.
There is, of course, room for further
land-settlement in Australia, but not to
any extent in the settled southern areas.
In fact, the plan of those who would like
to see productive farming and grazing
areas chopped up for settlement is hope-
lessly out of date.
In America—the world’s acknowledged
leader in agricultural techniques—the trend
has been just the other way over the last
40 years ; production has increased con-
siderably, while the number of people
engaged in rural production has decreased
just as steeply.
The cause, of course, is mechanisation,
and it is working just as Strongly in Aus-
tralia. Few people perhaps realise that
the number of farm tractors in Australia
more than doubled between 1943 and
1951—45,254 in 1943 and 111,655 in 1951.
No amount of economic planning can
alter the fact that mechanisation .is
changing our agriculture daily, and the
use of machines postulates the retention
of reasonably large farmirig properties.
Analysis of world tractor figures is
interesting. America naturally leads the
field with 3,800,000, but brought down
to a basis of hectares of land per tractor
Britain and New Zealand are in front
with 23 and 29 hectares per tractor
respectively, against America’s 48 and
Australia’s 100.
A glance at the figures is sufficient to
show that the countries with the lowest
ratio between tractors and arable land
are at the same time those usually acknow-
ledged as having the lowest standards of
living. The ratio in Spain, for instance,
is one tractor to every 1980 hectares, in
Asia one to 12,913 hectares.
As far as Australia is concerned there
is one other very important aspect to be
considered when talking of splitting up
large properties—our stud-stock industry,
particularly Merino sheep and, scarcely
less important, our large cattle studs. The
necessity of large areas for the breeding
of stud Merinos has been well proved,
while the recent importation of Santa
Gertrudis cattle from Texas could only
have been engineered by a breeder in a
large way of business.
Australia’s rural economy can be ex-
panded by irrigation and development of
hitherto-unoccupied Crown lands and
the opening-up of the North, where
already a big future has been seen for
rice-growing by an enterprising group.
Those who sincerely wish to see oiir
agriculture expand should turn their
minds to these new fields, and not en-
courage the Socialists in their avowed
aim to invest land-control in the hands
of the State. — Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Army Uniforms
The difficulty has always been to design
a service uniform (B. 24/9/’52) suitable
for peace and war. Wars are fought
in the most unpleasant places and
climates. About a hundred years ago
It. Lumsden, of the Guides Regiment,
Indian Army, startled the army world by
dressing his men in a “dun-colored, loose-
fitting uniform of hard-wearing material.”
That was the introduction of khaki. But
50 years later many British regiments
were so trussed-up that mounted men
found it hard to mount; the infantry
went into action in light boots and fancy
r ® ss - c ... , „ . . ~ , ,
, anc P co me °ts discarded
w en must - ar d-gas forced them
° Jq 0 s ?" - c , . , r
, jf Austrahan uniform designed after
f hs Eoer War was an example_ of shock-
ineptitude. It fitted where it touched,
Tfie woollen tunic buttoned at
wr * st + s ’ Trousers were heavy cordu-
roy, and the underclothes men were forced
to accg p t f or “f ud issue” included heavy
singlets (2) lon drawers (2) and tw J
h thin^s ed to tect
kidn^ys a „ ainst C Qj d
Fifty thousand o£ ' those and
“I wish you'd stop chewing that bubble-gum !”
extras were flung away at Anzac. Work
out the cost of that! And when snow
fell, there was another “issue” of what
was available. Many of those uniforms
were flung away again in the heat of
Egypt or Palestine and suitable uniform
bought by the men themselves.
Yet in 1939-45 the same mistakes were
made, and men were sent to the tropics
in the uniform of 1914 pattern. Even
greater waste ensued.
The Indian Army once tried a system
of men being given an allowance for
uniform. That worked out all right until
the temperature dropped 80 degrees in
one day during a frontier war and nobody
could find winter uniform. The cost for
frostbite and limbs lost set a new poser.
The answer on the uniform question
seems this; Dress our men and women
in proper uniform in peace-time. But
we should have many patterns in peace
to suit conditions likely to be met in
war, and with arrangements on purchasing
and tailoring quickly changeable as
climate demands.
And there is no reason why the Army
should not carry in its establishment a
dry-cleaning unit, combined with Salvage,
to recover uniforms and accessories for
reissue when necessary.—s G. R. (Vic.).
“Ceg’s” estimate of at least £5O per
head for W.R.A.A.C. and Army uniforms
(B. 24/9/’52) is probably fairly correct,
but the £5O is not extravagance. I’ll bet
“C.’s” own wardrobe is worth consider-
ably more than £5O, and a serviceman
has every right to be as decently and as
neatly dressed as a civilian.
There is no justification for making a
citizen-soldier appear in public dressed
like a tramp because he devotes a lot of
time to military training.
When a soldier is in action he is not
concerned with his clothes, but at other
times he should be allowed to look smart.
As for defence money being “wasted” on
uniforms: a man who has self-respect
and pride in himself and his unit will
make a better soldier than one who has
not. Whatever you pay for morale it’s
cheap.—C. M. F. (N.S.W.).
Level-crossings
The deaths of two children at a level-
crossing near Sydney, followed within a
matter of hours by the killing of a man
at a level-crossing a few miles further
away, brings attention back to this parti-
cul'ar type of
death - trap
scattered about
the Common-
wealth.
Over the
years there
have been a
number of
tragic disasters
at places where
roads cross
railways, and
each time some
Minister o r
official has
“called for a
report.”
The causes
of these acci-
dents are many
and varied.
Kiddies are
usually the
victims of their
own youthful
i n e x perience
and lack of
danger - sense.
Adults die, in
some cases, as
the result of their want of care or the
carelessness of another, in other cases
because of foolhardiness or faulty judg-
ment. The tragic aspect of each case,
however, is that it need not have
happened.
Since both the roads and the railways
are the property of the State, there is no
reason why road and rail should have to
cross on the same level. But if level-
crossings must be suffered, then machinery
exists whereby gates can be closed and
locked by remote-control. In England,
where many crossings of this type exist,
devices are installed in signal-boxes
enabling signalmen to operate the gates
in conjunction with their signalling-
system. Once a gate has been closed and
locked from the signal-box it is not
possible for a road-user to open it. —
Cave (N.S.W.).
Competitive Prices
Will Ted Scorfield, whose cartoon
(B. 24/9/’52) depicts the wolf of compe-
tition chasing the swine of high costs,
give the animal a good prod and sool it
across the border into Victoria. Such a
wolf may be lurking around Sydney, and
we could well do with its services in
Melbourne.
Here a certain amount of competition
is evident in some sections of the rag
trade, but for most of the goods in every-
day use there is little or no true compe-
tition among sellers. Artificial interfer-
ence with the natural law of supply and
demand is the main cause.
Consider two cases —spuds and onions,
both of which are items in the basic-wage
calculation.
A businessman on a trip to the wes-
tern district bought a bag of onions for
7s. 6d. (bag 55.) and a bag of potatoes for
10s. (bag 55.). He saw thousands of bags
of those vegetables stacked, and many
rotting. Growers said that the Onion
Board would not take all their produce,
or allow them to sell privately because of
oversupply and a desire to keep prices
up. The Potato Board was taking only
small quantities of the crop and com
pletely rejecting misshapen but quit
good tubers.
Some growers, defying the regulation
were openly inviting local residents t
come and dig, without charge, all th
spuds they wanted. I asked several rc
tailers of these vegetables what they wer
charging, and they quoted an average o::
about 58s. and 555. respectively.
Pious exhortations to produce mor
are still being made, but what a farce th
whole thing is. How can competitio
and individual effort and enterprise func
tion in the face of so many boards
federations and unions, whose sole pur
pose seems to be to keep prices as high
as possible and at any cost in wast
of good foodstuffs? — Ceg (Vic.),
Hospital Funds?
Since its inception the N. S. Wales
State Lottery, which was started years
ago with the ostensible purpose of giving
financial assistance to the hospitals, has
been making money hand over fist. In
the last few months there has been a
“boom” in the sale of tickets, and in
some cases two lotteries a day have had
to be drawn to keep up with the demand
for tickets.
Yet the beneficiaries (the hospitals) are
unfinancial, and have to close down
wards and retrench staff.
A £30,000 building-project on the
Sydney Hospital has had to be abandoned
because the State Government hasn’t
the funds to go on with it
It’s my guess that before anything more
is done to the Sydney Hospital money
will be found to enlarge the present lot-
tery office, which, it has been announced,
is too small to cope with the bulging
crowds of hopefuls who pack the
premises each day.
Where do the profits go?—F. Cuiler
(N.S.W.).
Local-purpose Loans
It is clear that the public is not in the
mood to subscribe to Government loans,
and consequently a great number of
desirable public works are indefinitely
postponed.
One reason for loan - shyness is
lowness of interest - rates. A more
important factor is that, while people
theoretically are thrilled by the vast
Snowy Mountains scheme, it does
not really stir them as would, say, the
construction of a new hospital or high
school in their own locality. If the
money they loaned promised to secure for
them a direct social benefit I don’t think
the rate of interest would be given much
consideration.
It is already the practice, when a Com-
monwealth loan is floated, to allot quotas
to towns and districts. Why not go
further and undertake that the quota
would be earmarked for a specified public
work in the district?
There can be few localities in which
such a public work has not already been
promised, or even begun and held
up for lack of funds. Let one be selected
and locally publicised, and provision made
on the loan application-forms for the
applicant to elect the purpose for which
his money is to be used. Then at least
some of our unfinished public works
might be completed.— Hist (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 195
Across
I—Ceremonial grandeur by a sullenly
obstinate courtesan. (9)
s—Parent and Aunt Sally are some-
what pulverised and squashed up.
(5)
B—lncreases to threefold boy
sopranos. (7)
10—More heavenly conjecturor. (7)
H—Exorcist to ensnare an American
poet. (5)
12— Go in advance and ebb behind
the piano. (7)
13 — She bears. (2)
14 — Capek play about robots. (3)
15 — Girl to take legal action. (3)
16 — Bend over a drinking vessel in
an open platform before a South
African house. (5)
20 —Fabric town in the French depart-
ment of Correze. (5)
,21 —Churchill’s responsibility and ego
in a North Coast centre of
N.S.W. (3)
123—Fitting is a little flat. (3)
125—Like a State reversal. (2)
116—Chanted a description of Ned’s
breakfast at breakfast-time. (7)
29—Girl with a Communist heart. (5)
2D—Bridge achievement between the
eyes to see Moslem. (7)
31—Leave you with a whip of course.
(7)
32 Beat it ginger when charged by
a bull. (5)
33 Force a fool into a pocket before
you and I take 1000 in an
element. (9)
Down
1— Drinkable river furnishing the
condition of a billiardist who is
about to be sunk. (7)
2 Quality of a heaven-inheritor
with a broken knee in a mess.
(8)
3 Plot of land sustains a soldier s
wife but makes the lot mental
and deranged. (9)
4 Range over 90 degrees of latitude
for the uppermost roof-timber.
(5-4)
5 Comedian to compete with a
film. (5)
6 Notes their work. (7)
7 Enclosure to get a gun beam to
carry a sail. (4-3)
9 —Namby-pamby runs up a tree.
(3)
16 — Taciturn bull seen in the inter-
section. (6-3)
17 — Pants an implied order to the
scorers when umpires make
sweeping lateral movements of
the arm. (4-5)
18 — Inflamed age upset it for those
interested in letters. (8)
19 — The French object is nailing up
the timbers before plastering. (7)
22—London suburb suggests how to
approve of fruity old-fashioned
acting. (7)
24 —Agriculturist may control navi-
gation at sea. (6)
27 — The diffident upset it in the
middle. (5)
28— Finger an order about an undug
garden. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 194


\\ \ «W, I^^:#//'II
<%. \ «.$ j/f\ «x u /.v. :.v «•
~ V\V •¥ IV / I iXa i
-——-—Jim ,£IS JBk //BSS'ScS..
r £ i .v
/’v r
tYTt
g ia*
EC!
LaWt
■"V
LANDS
svt. n
R to c 1»0
I i
S 3
r'SbSC
w
flfißl £R/
■ ; sa!
C.W -\RO«SFO. V s
MAfiKSitRR iJ*itoto»t*
t'-SS'tjV*
GAPOKK
«
tauaiasu
i ' t : t'"
\ "V. TERRITORY OF
j \-?r **•' *7Sa NK%V \ O V INE A
!//“’* \ ... .V
/r. ..j
i» B O R Ni’ O
*••
Kirk^*.
::M
Kadana f A vA*,,«9
«V Ravn
Crj
ii
Hs
0“-
I. A
* a: blrv:?
i >^s*ae
I Vv papua «
ht> | *
s^bomc
«*p jpfet v* ~
!*k: nSS KNm.vbA; sefc/A 7«
C\JC
ft-yu
x' *•-
: rirKtxJSaz\{x •'/?
«T" --
(tort
tS£.
* .vV
a !s olom^
niafL' s .-i’
j.wy
iif
9
ASMMORC "*’—■— >
PROTK
6. „/*S
JCUfI
&, *«
X?- T®
L. .i fvjJJi
fl
ar.
SKA
in-
i'
I
A
in
r*i»* *t»**
UJHI
23
C~tSr"cAfmtO»i
ALICE SPRINGS AREA
W£
TROPIC
D
[SHANK
A
“222222222232
i »5
rttCSiAK
ft EAT ACSTRAf.UN BIGHT
tuimmtfgjjg*
crrzsrrmr.z
T A S If A .\
S S A
sslu^Si
:W,i /■) T/f S MANIA
H.D
The Hastings Deering Cattle Property is a "terminar* on the
railway and is only 90 miles from Alice Springs Railhead in
Central Australia. This property is 2,600 square miles in
area, which is more than a road one mile wide across Australia
from Sydney to Perth. It is also equal to a road one mile
wide across America from New York to San Francisco.
This Hastings Deering Cattle Property has a twofold significance in near-
future world affairs.
The first is Australia's responsibility, both in natural desire and national duty,
to provide BEEF FOR BRITAIN.
The second is Australia's national security needs, which demand greater and
still greater beef production, for our increasing population and for the use
of our and our allies' DEFENCE FORCES.
"Bully Beef" is one of our munitions.
/
//
“BEEF ROADS” • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS DEERINC
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS PEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs and Darwin, N.T.
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs, Northern Territory.
. „ Lae, New Guinea. .. .
Head Office: William Street, Sydney. M 0412 (33 lines).
