

Jl
\
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address In the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service*
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
At JSBPL «
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3788
Wednesday, September 17, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HOME OF BRITAIN’S NATIONAL THEATRE, THE OLD VIC
FEW cities in the world can rival London as a musical and theatrical centre,
for there are no fewer than six permanent orchestras in the Capital and.
forty-seven theatres in its central area alone. One of the most famous of
these and one which has gained world-wide renown is the Old Vic, an
unpretentious little theatre on the south bank of the Thames near Waterloo
Station.
The theatre, birthplace of Britain’s national theatrical company, was
badly damaged by bombs during the Second World War, but it has now
been renovated, and the Old Vic Company, after a period of exile at the
New Theatre, in St. Martin’s Lane, has returned to its original home.
The Old Vic was built in 1817 upon the foundations of the ancient
Palace of Savoy, in which King John (1199-1216) was once held captive.
Opened soon after the Battle of Waterloo, it was named the Coburg Theatre
after the King of the Belgians. Sixteen years later its name was changed
to the Victoria Theatre in honour of young Princess Victoria. After passing
through a period of lurid melodrama, the Old Vic, as it became known, was
acquired in 1880 by Miss Emma Cons, who changed its whole character and
established the theatre as a centre for the performance of Shakespeare’s and
other classic plays at popular prices. Miss Cons, a pupil of Ruskin, gave up
the life of an artist for social work, and was Alderman of the first London
County Council. Her association with the Old Vic resulted in the provision
of wholesome and joyous recreation at a low price, and her devoted work is
commemorated by an inscription in the theatre. Miss Cons died in 1912,
and her great work was carried on by her niece, the late Dame Lilian
Bayliss, whose name is also associated with the Sadler’s Wells Theatre in
North London, which she established as a popular centre of ballet and opera.


Learn
HffiSS 5225
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—------ GUT HERE AND MAIL ————-
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(8.8.252) Age
THE FAR COUNTRY
by Nevi! Shute
A love story with an Australian
and an English background; by the
author of A Town Like Alice.
13/6 (post 7«L)
DUST ON MY SHOES
by Peter Pinney
Unconventional, adventurous travel
,in the Mediterranean, the Near East
and the Orient; illustrated.
21/- (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney !: 66-68 Elizabeth St,, Melbourne, C.l
The Red Page
FACT OR FICTION?
The Jubilee Year saw a sort of bonfire
celebration of 12 months’ duration, en-
livened by spectacular events of fluctuat-
ing blaze or gloom and by intermittent
rockets, catherine-wheels or squibs, in
the form of literary, musical and other
artistic competitions. The national
advantages gained from the nature of our
celebrations will, in due course, appear
(or fail to appear) when the present and
the immediate future themselves become
history. But one curious feature has
greatly teased my mind and offers, I
think, a subject worthy of note for general
speculation.
Within a few weeks of each other
entries in two of the literary competitions
passed through my hands. Firstly, short-
stories written for the Commonwealth
prize; secondly, articles written for a
West Australian prize, A foreigner read-
ing the first swag (there were 613, if I
remember correctly) would have gained
an overall picture of dissatisfaction,
spiritual dejection, dust, deserts and
dreary drains —not even frankly stinking
ones. The articles, necessarily far fewer
and limited by State boundaries (of
living, not thought), were almost entirely
“success stories.”
The literary merits of either, or both,
are not here under review. It is the extra-
ordinary paradox of the national attitude,
as demonstrated by some hundreds of
our writers, that thrust itself on my
notice. It is, I feel, fair enough to say
“national”: those stories in the first batch
that were obviously West Australian in
origin were not noticeably any more gay
or robust than those from “t’other side.”
I should not be in the least surprised to
learn that some local writer entered the
most splenetic of his themes for the
former, and the best of his real-life
triumphs (personal or second-hand or re-
searched) for the latter ; and that, in doing
so, he was but naturally living up to what
appears to be the mid-century Australian
illusion.
For is it not a fact that, in 160-odd
years, the story of Australia is a story of
endeavor, enterprise and success?
Governor Phillip, a man of vision, might,
in a ghostly visit to this continent, feel
a twinge about the future, but he himself
faced worse futures, with less promising
material, and any twinges would therefore
soon die, smothered by an upsurge of
amazed gratification ; and never mind the
quibblers. Also, it is reasonable to sup-
pose that he would not be able to believe
his ghostly ears if they by chance
registered one-eighth of the sighs, groans,
whines and imprecations today floating
on the proud Dominion air.
So. Surrounded by the fact of success
we indulge in the fiction of being a crowd
of downtrodden, overworked, frustrated,
frayed, penurious or misunderstood
mates, cobbers, abos, adolescents, amateur
actors; take your pick of stock characters.
The only villain worth a single hiss is the
“boss,” A century ago, everyone in Aus-
tralia wanted to be his own boss; to be
a boss of his own soul meant something,
too. Now, no one seems to care much
what he does, so long as there is a boss
to abuse, private. Government or Trades
Hall. As for being captain of one’s own
soul —what’s a soul? Or so the com-
bined efforts of the short-story writers
made this reader feel!
Among the articles, one lingers pleas-
ingly in my mind. In style like our old
friend Trader Aloysius Horn, it retailed
the personal life-history of an old-timer;
in his eighties at the end, he posed a
question in his last sentence. Having
by ill-health and under the threat of
death been obliged to leave, in his forties,
a city job, he had pioneered a wheat-farm
(and the things he had to learn and the
way he retailed them were tears-and-
laughter matter); brought up and
educated a family; regained his own
health but lost a wife, and, in World
War I, a son; finally, in the depression,
the just-beginning-to-pay farm.
He started again in a small business;
lost that—or got a job and had to retire
—I forget. Offered a home by a
daughter become matron of a big hospital
and by another well-married, he preferred
instead to pioneer again: built his own
“poultry and fruit” in a hills suburb.
What he wanted to know, he wrote, was
simply this: he had created a farm (it
was bringing in a handsome income to
the present owner), he had reared a
family he was proud of, had given a
beloved son in defence of Australia and,
he felt, lost a beloved wife in the struggle
to keep a farm he was destined also to
lose; now in his old age he preferred to
work to keep himself rather than sit
back on either State or child; could he
then be called a failure? He was cer-
tainly not a success, he wrote; but was
he a failure?
I still wonder how that story would
have been handled if the same theme had
been treated as fiction. I fear that to
recount it as a triumph would have been
considered a solecism. Now, like the
author, I have a question to pose; Are
the courage, endurance, energy, good-
fellowship, the commonsense and initia-
tive of our national tradition, and the
obvious present-day physical well-being
of the average Australian, each a fact-
or do I dream? Is the whole lot merely
fiction?
Henrietta Drake-Brockman.
Vermeer .
As Lawrence Gowing observes with
delicate distaste in his commentary to
Vermeer (Faber), this Dutch painter of
still-life and graceful femininity, who
lived from 1632 to 1675 and is as remark-
able for the smallness of his output as
the exquisite purity of his talent, has re-
ceived a good deal of attention of late,
even “paragraphs in the newspapers,” be-
cause of the forgeries of Van Meegeren ;
whose imitations of Vermeer deceived,
among others, Hermann Goring.
Perhaps, since it is a very good story,
and a matter of history, Mr. Gowing
might have dealt a little more fully with:
the forgeries; but of course, though
Wilson Steer once remarked that “he
couldn’t see what all the fuss was about,”
it did not need a Van Meegeren to make
Vermeer the pride of connoisseurs and the
delight of all lovers of fineness, suavity
and delicacy in oil-painting; and Mr.
Gowing writes of his art with a most
intense and revealing sympathy:
The work of Vermeer is a slender,
perfect plume thrown up by the wave, of
Dutch painting at its crest. For a moment
it seems that the massive tide pauses....
The material beauties of Vermeer’s world
uncover themselves quietly, neither sought
for nor unexpected. Everything in the
room knows to a nicety its place in the
design, as unmoving as the walls that shut
it in. There is an unshakable logic in the
divisions of space and surface. Each
province has its cool and positive hue, each
has an edge whose firmness forbids doubt.
Along the window-frames, across the floor,
the perspective pattern extends until, against
the wall, framed in its rectangular
divisions, the human inhabitant is dis-
covered. She has no thought in particular,
no remarkable occupation. Her mooning
is caught in a mathematic net, made
definite at last, part of a timeless order.
Mr. Gowing believes, without any posi-
tive evidence, that Vermeer probably
made use of the camera-obscura; which
would explain in part the perfect, lucid
detachment of his art —though the use of
this device should be regarded as tempera-
mental rather than mechanical. It ■suited
Vermeer, apparently, to be removed a
little from reality. In this same connec-
tion Mr. Gowing observes, in a singu-
larly acute piece of psychological detec-
tion, that in practically all Vermeer's
pictures the viewer, like the artist himself,
is held off from the quiet women he loved
to paint by a series of extraordinary
obstacles —the famous table draped with
the gorgeous carpet, massive chairs, a
piano, the length of the room, a side-
board . . . always something that kept
life and its fertility, so dear to the more
characteristic Dutch painters, at a
distance.
With the additional information that
Vermeer’s subjects had all been painted
before by other artists, and Mr. Gowing's
conjecture that Vermeer felt that “every-
thing had been done,” the artist seems to
emerge as something very like a homelier
Matthew Arnold: who also felt that
everything had been done (though Brown-
ing was proving how much more there
was to do), and who had in poetry much
the same cool grace as Vermeer had in
art. In both of these men we miss the
vitality of greater artists; but in both
there is the beautiful compensation of the
construction of “a timeless order”—-
a pleasing spectacle in an age so dis-
orderly as ours.
Mr. Gowing’s text suggests, by impli-
cation, another comparison which might
be made ; for it is a curious fact that a
long paragraph on pages 46 and 47, bring-
ing to a climax Mr. Gowing’s researches
into Vermeer’s attitude towards women,
is almost idea-for-idea, if not word-for-
word, what Pater wrote about the Mona
Lisa:
Tangled defences are woven about her;
she is enclosed in the impenetrable
envelope of space. We have come upon
female life in its whole secluded richness:
engrossed in itself it is seen entire and
unimpaired. There is in the meeting a
sense of personal completion. It is as if a
need had lain unspoken from a time
beyond memory, the heed of an indispens-
able complement, the need of its achieve-
ment in this one delicate, immaterial
symbol and no other. We share in a ful-
filment; we derive from the tiny canvas
[The Lacemaker] as deep a nourishment as
sight Can hold.
Vermeer is in the best style of Faber
art-books ; beautifully and substantially
produced with four color-plates, 79 mono-
chrome (full reproductions and “details”)
and 36 monochrome plates by other
Dutch artists for the purposes of com-
parison. Mr. Gowing’s delightful essay
concludes with notes' for experts and
students on the probable order in which
the pictures were painted.
Norwegian Underground.
The Shetland Bus told of the
Norwegian fishing-boats which plied their
dangerous traffic between the Shetlands
and Norway. Two Eggs On My Plate
(Allen and Unwin) by Oluf Olsen is com-
plementary, in that it describes what went
on after underground agents were landed.
It is similar, in that it is told in the same
modest, economical way, in that it is a
factual record of high adventure, and
that it is crammed with incident on almost
every page.
With a friend, on orders from a British
Secret Service agent in Oslo, the author
blows up a vital bridge in the opening
pages, and this successful operation
launches the reader on a series of
sabotage and espionage adventures which
make a fictional thriller boy-scout stuff in
comparison.
One impudent incident concerns the
removal of secret radio equipment from
a damaged Heinkel bomber on a runway
a few yards from the German hangars,
with Olsen and his friend, dressed in
overalls, working under the unsuspicious
eye of a patrolling German sentry-
unsuspicious, till the genuine mechanics
put in an unexpected appearance.
Capture and a dive to freedom over a
river-bridge follow.
A secret transmitting-station is set up
on a wooded hill nicely overlooking
Kristiansand harbor, with an “amusing'’
game to follow of throwing German
direction-finding cars and aircraft off the
scent by the manipulation of frequency
volume. But when every convoy which
leaves harbor is met by British torpedo-
bombers, the Germans comb every yard
of the suspect wood. The news-
announcers are chased for a full day in
an exhausting run for life through thick
forests and choked gorges. And get
away to set up their transmitter again
overlooking an enemy airfield.
Again and again the transmitting-point
is found, and again and again set up in a
new position. Supplies are dropped by
a Halifax bomber, which on two occasions
also drops the author—once after he
had sailed a small boat across the North
Sea to England in a gale which had sent
even British destroyers tail-down for
harbor.
Running through the calm, almost
casual, current of the narrative is a tense
undercurrent of constant fear of betrayal
and capture, either by garrulous friends,
shifty Quislings or the Gestapo itself.
About the only fault in an otherwise
excellent yam is the lack of characterisa-
tion —none of the characters is clearly
visualised or physically described; one
appreciates their courage, but would like
to know what they looked like.
The title springs from the serving of a
parachutist, before taking-off on a drop
into enemy territory, with that rare
commodity in England, two fried
eggs. The translation is by F. H.
Lyon, who also gave The Kon-Tiki
Expedition to half a million English-
speaking readers.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Counterfeit Mystery: Eric
Leyland (Museum Press). Dire doings
of English schoolboys with a ruffian
gang of counterfeiters, complicated by
the boys’ efforts to crash into the soft-
drink industry with a fizz of their own,
a recipe superimposed on a soft-drink
already on the market. The reviewer’s
son considered it pretty good, which is
not bad,
* * * *
Sea Road to the Indies: Henry H.
Hart (Hodge). The story of the Portu-
guese navigators from the time of Prince
Henry, chiefly Vasco da Gama. A sober,
factual reconstruction of Da Gama’s
career, more interesting for its material
than its prose style; but the material is
full of drama and the history carefully
documented.
* * * ♦
Green to Pagan Street: J. Trevor Story
(Harrap). While highbrows will find
little to interest them here, the book
should please anyone who enjoys an
occasional lazy evening in front of a
fire, with a competently-written and
easily-read novel. This is a collection of
episodes in the lives of a group of people
living in a small London street, which
is nearly, if not quite, a slum. It could
perhaps be argued that many of these
quite convincingly-drawn characters are
too “good” for their setting and situation
in life —but then, in most slum novels
the characters tend to be too “bad” for
verisimilitude, so the score evens up.
* « * *
America and the Mind of Europe:
A reprint, with an introduction by Lewis
Galantiere, of a set of articles which
first appeared in the “Saturday Review
of Literature”; contributors include
Arthur Koestler, Stephen Spender and
Melvin J. Lasky, Leo Lania, on
German publishing and journalism,
briefly refers to some U.S. novels that
have been best-sellers in translation ( The
Naked and the Dead sold 50,000 copies
in the first few weeks), then proceeds to
discuss the plight of German literature,
without any direct transatlantic refer-
ence. America is only a footnote, too, in
James Thrall Soby’s article on post-war
painting, which is chiefly about Picasso’s
“Guernica,” and says that most of the
young Communist artists in Paris are
obeying the party order to return to
“realism” (of the propagandist variety),
only Picasso being exempt from the rule
because “his propaganda value to the
party is unique.”
* « ♦ *
Voices of the Opera: Frank Granville
Barker (Unwin). Condensed musical
biographies of Kirsten Flagstad, Set
Svanhoim, Adriana Guerrini, Ferruccio
Tagliavini, Joan Hammond, _ Walter
Midgley, Edith Coates, Italo Tajo, Boris
Christoff, Victor de Sebata and the
Glyndebourne Opera. With portraits.
Only 61 pages,, it should be of interest
to gramophone-record collectors and
listeners to classical music.
m * * *
Island of the Swan; Mauritius: Michael
Malim (Longmans). An apt title, since
Mauritius was named “Island of the Swan”
by the Portuguese when they discovered it
in the 16th century. Apparently a South
African, Mr. Malim is amusing on the
fact that nobody knows where Mauritius
is, and says that you find it by drawing a
line “due south* from Muscat in the ex-
treme east of Arabia and another due
west, also for a long way, from a little
place called Onslow in Western Australia,”
the island being where they intersect in
the Indian Ocean. Which, besides proving
the usefulness of Onslow, is decidedly in-
formative ; as is the whole of this very
well-written book, with its early-day
pirates, its successive occupations by the
Dutch, the French and the British;
its old stone houses, mango-trees
and mountains; and its camellias
“Bushes and hedges of camellias,, 30
feet high. Camellias white, and striped,
and every shade of rose. A hundred for
a penny:, they were too common to be
sold. Often, moreover, they were of
extraordinary size.”


WE WILL
ONLY BE
TOO PLE-
ASED TO
LICENSE
YOU FOR
THE COM-
ING TROUT
SEASON...
LICENCES
OBTAINED
FROM OUR
FISHING
DPT.. LWR.
GND. FLR. a
PITT ST.
.
Wmmmsimmm
: ..;■ ■ m
:
........................
: ■
m i -' \ * J 4:
;
•m ■ i I
m
mmmam
SwiS'
*Sr
.
i m «
I:. i
si: 1 !
fity
ySj ; v ;
P?: :
* »l : il
::: : .: ■■■
:
1
*
I
■
li#
i
liliiiiiii
:: ■ ::
■::
mm
mm
mm
■■■■ “ : ..
ms
- Vi y
aaa
w
: .S
■■■ ■
■■ ■ ■ .
.t
|||i|
r. ' J
-v k
> M'-l
ill
FOR FIRST-
CLASS AD-
YICE ON
TROUT
FISHING
SEE OUR
STAFF IN
THE FISH-
ING DEPT.
WE HAVE
SYDNEY'S
LARGEST
RANGE OF
TROUT
GEAR. ALL
LINES ARE
RECO M-
MENDED
AND FIRST
CLASS.
Trout Season Opens Oct Ist
The trout are rising . . . rising! Time now to examine your gear, see that everything is in order for what promises to be a fine season.
suggest a visit to our Fishing Tackle Department, Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street?
May we
Swedish 3-piece Trout Rod
Hardened tonkin split cane rod with 9ft. cork
grip, screw reel, fitting agatine butt and end
rings. With one top £ 10/4/-; 2 tops £l3/5-.
Swedish 2-piece Rod
Trout spinning rod in hardened tonkin split
cane, 5 ft. cork grip, locking reel fitting,
at £5/2/9. With detachable offset screw and
locking reel fitting, price is £7/10/6.
Hardy's Greenheart Rod
A two piece trout spinning rod from Hardy’s,
England. 7ft. cork grip. £6/17/6.
Glass Trout Spinning Rod •
From Germany, this 2 piece sJft. rod. £lO/-/-
English Split-cane 3-piece
Three piece trout rods in strong, flexible split
cane. 9jft. cork grip. Price £l5/17/6.
I
First-class Imported Rainbow 888
Skilfully designed and perfectly constructed, this is the
most outstanding reel of its kind. For salt or fresh
water fishing, the 888 has automatic line guide. Fisher-
men will note with approval the free spool, the centri-
fugal brake and no back lash. Take-apart, it has
quadruple winding. Ratio 4 to 1, reel is £l3/13/-.
Hardy's "Perfect"—3 3/Bin., £ll/6/9
English Reels—3in., 77/6; 34in., 90/-
■"TRUTH W ADVERTISING"
df
ii
..W *
PHONE M 2401. MAIL BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
'Ol
Fly and Cast Cases .«•
Aluminium fly case (No. 1), 50 steel clips,
13/6.
6-compartment aluminium fly case (No. 2),
27/6.
Plastic fly box with 8 compartments, at 7/6.
UNILLUSTRATED
Our round cast cases, made in strong
aluminium. These have flannel pads inside.
Price 10/6. Light, well constructed round
cast cases in celluloid. flannel pads
inside, 10/6.
Sundries
TROUT FLIES, per dozen, wet 9/-. Dry 12/-.
SINGLE HOOK SPOON FLASHES in three
sizes—-fin. 1/3, fin. 1/3, Hn. 1/6.
INDIANA TYPE spoon flash, single 2/-,
double 2/9.
CROWN DEVON BAIT, lin. and Ifin. 3/6.
1 fin. 4/-, 2in. 4/6.
HARDY’S CEROLINE. Priced at 3/6 large tin.
FISHING BAG, with two outside pockets, 42/6.
NYLON landing nets, light and strong at 10/$,


WHATEVER YOU HAUL - WHATEVER
INTERNATK
are
Heavy-Dufv Ehmeerec/
TO SAVE YOU MONEY \
INTERNATIONAL
ELIVER
AL TRUCKS
Vs*
■
n
m
.
&I
?«S
S&S
Vv
WHETHER for working in rugged logging operations, or trans-
porting other raw materials or manufactured goods, International
Trucks are heavy-duty engineered to deliver power and stamina for
tough jobs on time all the time at low operating and maintenance
costs. The ruggedness of Internationals has been proved on the
country’s toughest trucking jobs. #
In addition to power and stamina, you get comfort, easier handling
and easier riding in the big roomy cab a perfect combination of real
truck qualities for all your operations. You get full visibility through
the super-size windshield . . . positive steering control from a more
comfortable driving position . . . new manoeuvrability in the shortest
practical turning circle and many other outstanding features.
Get all the facts! Full information is available from International
Harvester district showrooms in capital cities or from any of Inter-
national Harvester’s metropolitan distributors or country dealers. Find
out about these International Trucks for yourself today.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities. Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
MT3I6-40
II
Australian-made model AL-110
utility (115-inch wheelbase).
Australian-made model AL-130
light truck (134-inch wheelbase).
Model L-192 heavy-duty truck
(142-inch wheelbase).
Henry Lawson
and the
labor Movement
in
next week
J. C. James, N.S.W. District
Secretary, Australian Journalists
Association, in a special article
throws new light on , Lawson s
personal Labor ideas.
First Flight
by E.O. SCHLUNKE
The Manager,
Air Outback, Ltd.,
Bourke.
Dear Sir,
I hereby apply for a transfer
to another district, as it is not
in the interests of the firm for
me to remain here, since an un-
fortunate misunderstanding has
arisen, following the death of a
client of ours, the late Mr. Alan
Wilcox. At the outset I wish to
assure you most emphatically
that no offence was intended,
and that any that may have been
taken was due to a complete
misinterpretation of my actions.
However, I shall describe the
incident and leave it to you to
judge.
As a matter of fact, I wasn’t
really going to Wilcox’s place
that trip, but the doctor asked
me to drop in with some sulpha
tablets for him, as he wasn’t
well, which I did as I was going
past his place to Marracumba.
Having completed the business
at Marracumba (you may re-
member the 500 fat Hereford
steers I got there at a very satis-
factory price) and having no
urgent appointment, I decided to
drop in at Wilcox’s on the way
back to see how he was getting
on. I had always thought a lot
of the old chap, and I think he
liked me. He loved to hear
about what they were doing on
all the other stations I visited,
and he took a great interest in
flying, too. Every time I
dropped in at his place he’d say
to me:
“My boy, some day you must
take me up and let me see what
it feels like to go through all
those loops and turns you
always do,”
I always meant to, too, but
every time I arrived there was
the usual rush to get his stock
mustered and inspected; then,
likely as not, urgent telephone
or pedal-radio calls from this or
that station wanting me to call,
so that I could never work it in.
Well, I arrived at Boronoro
and did my usual stunts over the
homestead to let him know it
was me. But when I put the
plane down and got out they
told me he was dead. I tell you
I felt very bad about it.
The relations were arriving in
cars from all over the back
country—the Wilcox family own
a terrific lot of land all over
the west. And then, while the
men were still talking about
funeral arrangements and argu-
ing about the details in the stiff-
necked Wilcox way, down came
the rain in bucketfuls.
I had to stay there for the
night and listen to all the women
moaning about how they were
going to get him to the ceme-
tery. And how were they going
to have a decent funeral with
all the creeks up and the roads
impassable? And the men
weren’t much better, though
they pretended that they could
manage everything very well, if
only the women wouldn’t fuss.
Well, it rained all night, and
though it was clear in the
morning, Boronoro homestead
looked like Noah’s Ark with
water all round it. All the morn-
ing there was a string of men
queuing-up at the telephone try-
ing to persuade the undertaker
to bring out the hearse. Each
of them swore that he could get
through, though I noticed that
none of them was game to try
to take him in in a car (there
was about a hundred and twenty
miles to go and three or four
sizeable creeks). But the under-
taker wasn’t going to risk his
new Cadillac, and I didn’t blame
him, it being so low-slung and
heavy.
Well, in the end I had to come
to their rescue. I told them that
since tfiey were so sure they
could get through to town they
should go. I would wait until
the afternoon to give them time
to arrive (and to let the water
dry away a bit so I could get the
plane up) and I’d bring the old
man in myself. There was an
all-in debate about that. Some
of the women even seemed to
think I was insulting the family.
But in the end they agreed that
it was the only thing to do.
SO they all went sloshing off
through the mud while I
went to see if I could pick out a
strip of higher ground to get a
run. I found a place that would
do ; then I went inside and the
cook gave me a No. 1 dinner.
A couple of station-hands had
been detailed to give me a hand
with the old man. He’d been
left in his pyjamas and dressing-
gown, so we carried him out like
that. We had some trouble get-
ting him to sit in the cockpit
properly, but we managed and
got the straps fastened round
him.
But he looked wrong, sitting
there in his check dressing-gown
and his bald head sticking out.
So I got them to put a tough,
windproof gaberdine overcoat
on him (because it gets damn
cold up aloft, even in this
weather), and we put a thick
cap on his head and tied it
under his chin.
Conditions for the take-off
were still very bad; I had to put
all I knew into it; I didn’t want
to have a crack-up with that
cargo, especially after what the
women had said. Then, when
we were up, and going along
beautifully above all the mud
and water, like a bird, I took
a look round to see how he was
taking it. He was sitting there
in his sturdy, calm old way, with
his head tilted a little over one
side as if he was having a last
look at Boronoro Downs, and
liking the look of it very well,
with all that rain on it and plenty
of autumn feed assured. I tell
you, it gave me quite a turn to
see him looking so alive and
interested in everything. I didn’t
look back for quite a while, but
the next time I did he was look-
ing over the other side, and
looking so intently that I had to
look, too. We were right over
Tenterby, and I remembered
straight away that his old crony
Evans lived there. We had our
last look at Frank Evans’s place.
I don’t suppose you will under-
stand how 1 felt, because you’ve
never flown over the lonely
Western Plains with only a dead
man for passenger, and him act-
ing as if he was alive all the
time. But it got me that way
that if he happened to be look-
ing the wrong way when we
passed a homestead he knew I’d
yell out to him and point it out.
And sure enough, he’d turn that
way and give me a little nod with
his head as if to thank me. Of
course, when I come to think of
it now in cold blood, I realise
that the plane must have rocked
a bit; I might even have banked
her to make him lean over the
other side ; but I wasn’t aware
of it at the time.
• Then, quite suddenly, we were
over the town, and I remembered
that I’d never have another
chance of giving him that spot
of aerobatics he’d always wanted.
So I gave the old bus the gun,
and put her into a loop; I
rolled off the top, coming down
slowly over the drome. Each
time we turned over I could see
the relations’ cars, drawn up,
waiting, and the hearse; and all
the people getting out of the
cars, looking up at us. I zoomed
up again ; did a long barrel-roll
that was as good as anything I’ve
ever seen an instructor do, came
down in a couple of tight turns
that were really tight, and put
her onto the drome in a beautiful
three-point landing.
Believe me, sir, I came down
to earth in more senses than one.
I’d got myself all stirred up
about giving the old chap his
last request; doing the very best
that was in me for a man I had
liked and respected. But those
relations! They took a very
different view of it.
Now, sir, I trust that you will
not take an unsympathetic view
of this incident. lam still eager
to serve the firm in my present
capacity, but I think you will
agree that this locality is no
longer the most favorable for my
operations. I have heard that
you are opening up a branch in
the Northern Territory. If that
position has not yet been filled,
I most respectfully suggest that
it is the ideal place for me.
Yours faithfully,
J. S. BUNKLE.


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3788
Wednesday, September 17, 1952
/ t/paa/s^S
df
THE PASSENGER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria; newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEFENCE AND ITS CRITICS.
One of the worst features of a democracy,
especially a modem one which governs
itself on purely party lines and owns an
opportunist daily Press with an ambition
for power, is that it is apt to develop
government-by-hysteria.
Australia had plenty of experience of
this in World War 11. It saw a bewildered
Army Minister early in 1942 publicly
accepting the dictum of journalists and
ill-intentioned Communists that troops
could be trained for battle in three weeks
if only the brasshats were ignored. It saw
innocent great-daily newspapers repeating
the words of Moscow propaganda, which
aimed to create a “people’s army” and
“scorched earth” of which the real pur-
pose was not to defeat an external enemy
but to produce insurrection in the Com-
monwealth. They saw the strategy of
defence taken over, so far as an external
command would allow it to be taken over,
by the Press in the weeks before the
Kokoda Trail march, when Sydney papers
panicked the sorry Canberra “Labor”
Government. It saw the Brisbane Line
episode, based on a lying invention by a
man whose electorate was a hotbed of
shirk and privilege for those who wished to
evade taking their share of the burden of
defence, at a time when the country was
in some danger. And the country was
treated also to the spectacle of every party
stirred off its balance by a hysterical
campaign vigorously approving the intern-
ment of the innocent Australia First men,
some normally well-balanced people even
regretting that their executions were not
possible.
The same influences which brought
about these events are at work now.
There is a mischievous activity in certain
quarters which is almost as dangerous as
anything a fifth-column could do. There
is an assumption among some Press and
radio commentators that their first duty
in the defence of the country is to tell
their readers and the enemy overseas
everything they can find out, whether
it is damaging to security or not.
Defence is the most difficult matter to
criticise. It should be subject to criticism,
but it is hard for even the most sincere
and responsible critics to maintain a
proper balance. And there are few
responsible ones in the field today. News-
paper correspondents have been wander-
ing the north, as familiar with its condi-
tions as a penguin in the Inferno, shout-
ing that it is “wide-open to attack.” Mr.
MacMahon, the Navy Minister, is
badgered at every sitting of Parliament
to tell exactly what he knows about
Russian submarines in New Guinea
waters. He should be sacked if he has
real knowledge and tells.
The Estimates debate last week was full
of the disjointed shouting of members
riding their own hobby-horses. “Labor”
rode its theory that Australia had been
undefended until the genius of Messrs.
Frankie Forde and Drakeford and
Riordan was applied to the job. Mr.
Ward shouted about the new Brisbane
Line, forgetting that the only Govern-
ment which began withdrawals of civilian
population from the north with a view to
abandoning it was his own.
The Government has called a
temporary halt to some phases of military
expansion, so Mr. Downer “urges the
Government to increase the strength of
the Army and Air Force,” while Mr.
Bostock, an airman, calls on Mr. Menzies
and his Ministers to place the greatest
emphasis on air-power:
We must reorientate our defence policy.
We may reasonably expect that one of the
first hostile attacks by an enemy would
be to put down a heavy attack on the
uranium mines.
An enemy would more probably make
one bite of the cherry if he intended
serious invasion, and try to attack Sydney
and Newcastle from some much nearer
vantage-point than the Northern
Territory,
The plain fact is that the Government
has done hundreds-per-cent. more than
any other Government has done for
defence during peace-time, however far
short the result is of our complete needs.
The only parts of its schemes which are
lagging are those which depend on
voluntary effort —the system which most
of its critics advocate. If it has called a
halt in some services it is only to enable
it to consolidate what it has done, and
because the novel position has been
arrived at at which it has a little too
much to handle.
This position has not come about
through its own fault. It must be remem-
bered that after the war “Labor” killed
everything in defence which it could kill.
Its scheme was a token scheme, and the
substance of the present effort has mainly
been brought into existence since January,
1950. Nobody who knows the facts can
complain of lack of activity, whatever
else there is cause to complain of.
The expenditure of the Lyons-Page
Government in 1938-39—venomously
opposed by “Labor,” nursing its 300-
aeroplane scheme, which was to cost “less
than a battleship”—was £14,000,000. This
year’s outlay is set at £200,000,000, and
the country will be lucky if, keeping pace
with the projected expansions of other
countries, it is not substantially greater
next year.
In the carefree atmosphere of this Aus-
tralia, wrestling with the problems of
whether racing shall be taxed to keep the
bankrupt Mr. Cahill afloat in his sea of
jag and squander, and whether wages
should rise or fall to prevent “depression,”
it is not realised that on the Allied side
alone there are now something like
5.000. men in training about
3.000. in the United States, more than
1.000. in the British Commonwealth,
of which the United Kingdom accounts
for 820,000, and the rest on the continent
of Europe.
There are not far short of a million
engaged in manning or servicing war-
fronts, more than 500,000 connected with
the Korean affair, 200,000 in Indo-China
and substantial numbers in Malaya and
on the Suez Canal and its outer defences,
which reach to Malta and on which forces
are virtually on a war footing. And these
figures do not take into account Chian g
Kai-shek’s armies in Formosa, the Japl-
- the fighting Turks, who have a
large and high-quality army.
In assessing our own effort it has to be
considered that these huge forces, growing
every day of necessity, make an overall
drain on the world’s materials and plant
which is enormous by peace-time, and
respectable even by height-of-war-time,
standards. That material and plant has
to be rationed to the points where it is
needed, which naturally affects progress
in the more remote corners of the defence
structure such as Australia. And there is
a further check in the fact that most
modern aircraft, and many modern
weapons and other war devices, are in
the prototype stage only, and cannot be
produced in volume until the factories
are tooled-up for them and manpower
organised.
Generally speaking there is nothing
much to criticise in the magnitude
or pace of the overall effort. It is without
precedent in peace-time, being developed
under the spur of the knowledge that we
are faced with the threat of enemies who
have devoted the whole of their energies
towards organising and feeding armies of
attack since the last war ended, and who
have an annual intake of conscripts as
great as the total force of the West put
together at present, and manpower
resources 15 times as great as those of
the Germany which we had so much
difficulty beating.
Wrong Wailing-wall.
Suddenly it was spring! The winter-
long outcries of pressure-groups about the
Commonwealth Government’s budgetary
checks on inflation, especially the credit
and import regulations, lost their edge.
The simulated panic about unemployment
and depression, most vociferous in New
South Wales, because the Commonwealth
Government refused to issue Treasury
bills in amplification of loan funds for
unlimited State works programmes, bore
every mark of exaggeration and political
propaganda. But suddenly something
went wrong with the brewing of a public
hysteria calculated to assure the Cahill
Government in N.S.W. a further lease of
power at an early snap-election and “the
overthrow of the Menzies Government
before the end of 1952.”
The first sobering influence appeared
among the heads of State “Labor”
Governments with the announcement of
the Commonwealth Government’s inten-
tion at the end of this financial year to
hand back to these Governments the
responsibility for collecting their own
income-tax. A long-sustained anti-Com-
monwealth propaganda from the Cahills
in N.S.W. and the Cain-McDonalds in
Victoria was cut off as with a knife when
its spokesmen realised that when they
did meet their electors they would have
to explain how many millions, of extra
taxation they must impose to make good
their complaint that money had been
denied them, as they said, by the Govern-
ment in Canberra.
What interest in the public’s welfare
the “Labor” Government in N.S.W. had
observed in its day-to-day administration
was being illuminated by, the evidence
before the liquor commission and by the
increasing bankruptcy of the State
transport services. It is a good bet that
the report of the liquor commission will
not be published by the Government
before the next N.S.W. elections.
Faced with the further revelation that
he had been, in effect, demanding that
taxpayers over all Australia (through the
Federal Treasury) should find the money
to help meet his railway and tram deficits.
Premier Cahill had to think again. He
actually announced that the railways
would have to earn their keep. His
Minister for Transport discovered that,
as one union official says, railway-work-
shop employees “have been turning out
twice as many ‘foreign orders’ as any
other place”—“foreign orders” being a
euphemism for the use of railway
machinery and materials in public time
by public employees for making all
manner of household goods for private
gain.
“Labor’s” white-haired boy, the
new Director of Railways, risen like a
phoenix from the ashes of the late and
unlamented Transport Commission, de-
clared last week, in the presence of his
political chiefs, that he intended “to con-
duct the railways; like a private under-
taking” and as though he were the
general-manager of a commercial busi-
ness. Nothing like this has been heard
since, some years ago, when the present
rot was only beginning, Mr. McGirr’s
former Minister for Transport uttered his
belief that the only way to overcome
Sydney tram losses was to sell the trams
to private enterprise, a lapse from which,
politically, he has never recovered.
Already the businessmen’s group at the
wailing-wall had become notably smaller.
While the spokesmen for a section of
them in N.S.W. (where Australia-wide
high costs have throughout been at their
worst) was still reciting the same old
laments, those in other States, meeting in
Adelaide, declared they had had enough
of this “budgetitis” and summoned their
constituents to get down to work unmixed
with politics and tackle the real enemy,
which is high costs. They even said that
business was getting healthier, a remark
which within the pressure-groups must
have sounded like heresy. Similarly the
radio-trades’ wail in N.S.W. was coun-
tered by a detailed statement from their
Federal president in Melbourne declaring
that the industry was suffering basically
not from the sales-tax but from “the
nation’s disastrous attitude towards
work,” as reflected by awards and wages.
And then “S. M. Herald,” having worn
sackcloth and ashes in sympathy with
Dr, Evatt and other parading victims
of credit regulations, flung them off with
a 12-page whoop of optimism, followed
by a Saturday front-page display of the
“wonderful season” now opening and the
“revival of the textile trade.”
They all seem to conclude that they
have been wailing at the wrong wall.
The truth is that we can no longer
afford to carry on in this country as
though it did not matter whether or not
a man gives an honest day’s work for
his wage, or at what cost the goods we
produce get to market. There is matter
for satisfaction in the improved output
of coal, but none at all in the price
consumers have to pay for it, increasing
even with production temporarily in
surplus to demand. The same influences
which have priced coastal shipping out
of business, piled up the costs in State
transport monopolies, and put home-
building almost out of reach, are now
jacking up electric-power and telephones
to the status of luxuries, when by any
criterion of business custom they should
be among the cheapest of necessities. The
soaring prices of food commodities are a
disgrace to the land and its climate. It is
bad enough to endure these things as
present burdens, but worse to contem-
plate a future in which persistence in
our refusal to correct them can only
mean that the development of this con-
tinent will pass inevitably into other and
willing hands. There are signs, however,
that the revolt against high costs is win-
ning adherents even in the unions.
The real ground for complaint against
the Menzies Government is not that its
measures to check inflation are ill-con-
ceived, for they are proving their efficacy,
but that it seems unwilling or unable to
reduce the deadweight of an overgrown
bureaucracy which bears down the more
heavily on all enterprise with every fresh
regulation devised by Governments to
“restore stability to the economy,” as they
say. Business managers are exhorted to
be more efficient, and their workers to
be more community-conscious; but the
bureaucracy, with its everlasting delays,
is not put upon any such responsibility.
The current protracted argument between
Mr. Menzies and Mr. Cahill about orders
for N.S.W. power-plants is an excellent
example of bureaucracy in action on each
side.
Any Government avowedly out to
bring down high costs as the destroyer
of the economic health of this country
owes a duty to the community to begin
at home, within its own administration.
Premier Cahill’s direction that the N.S.W.
Transport Department shall reduce its
expenditure to the extra subsidies avail-
able—a direction issued only from sheer
necessity—has produced the revelation
by the responsible Minister that his
“administrative staff is far in excess of
the revenue-producing staff,” and the
example he quoted of an official with a
gold free-pass spending over £6OO in seven
months in taking a bus-driver as chauffeur
in a departmental car has shocked the
whole community.
As for pressure-groups, there is none
so powerful as that operating perpetually
in all Government departments.
The Miner's Mind.
From London: An important piece of
research, which brings into sharp focus a
little-understood feature of British coal-
mining, has just been published by the
Acton Society Trust (an offshoot of the
Joseph Rowntree Social Service Trust).
“The Worker’s Point of View” has no
political, economic or industrial bias. It
is objective social research, and
represents the findings of an experienced
inquirer, familiar with the coalmining
industry, who lived for three months in
the home of a miner in an unidentified
district.
The miner, it is found, lacks neither
intelligence nor percipience over local or
personal matters, such as wages, working
conditions, transport, housing, or the
way to claim compensation; nor is he
apathetic about lodge meetings—when
remuneration appears on the agenda.
This alertness does not extend, though, to
the larger issues affecting his work and
place in society: topics such as the need
to import U.S. coal, the manpower short-
age and the general working of the
nationalised mining industry are outside
his ken —and his care.
His outlook is declared to be domin-
ated by “three fixed attitudes, the force
and rigidity of which are little suspected.”
These are (1) persistent fear of the return
of unemployment, (2) deep suspicion of
all in authority, allied with hatred and
scorn for his own administration, and
(3) a belief that the public regards him
as an inferior being, almost a social out-
cast.
This last attitude seems to be the
strongest of the three, and was substan-
tially responsible for the rejection of the
Italian workers and the resultant failure
of a costly scheme. It was not a parochial
dislike of foreigners nor the incipient fear
of unemployment that influenced them.
It was the more subtle fear that his status
might be lowered, coupled with the
resentment that an out-of-work foreigner
could do his job. Indeed, so
rigid is this fixation that the report is
forced to stress that “when the
miner receives information he fits it into
the pattern of his prejudices.” A mani-
festation common to other industries,
notably the docks, is a kind of group
sulkiness that results in a strike, ostensibly
over wages or conditions. These are often
due to pique that his services are not
appreciated. There have been more than
8000 petty stoppages since vesting-day
(January 1, 1947).
The report goes on to analyse the
sources of information that are intended,
but fail signally, to give the miner a pic-
ture of his own industry,, its ramifications
and his own function in it. This comment
is self-evident:
The unions see joint consultation as a
step towards participation in management,
but it is obviously absurd to visualise a
miner taking a share in determining the
wider issues in his industry when he has not
even read through a summary of the
National Plan.
In summary and conclusion the in-
quirer’s findings are both disquieting and
pessimistic, and he does not exclude the
managements from blame, particularly
over public relations with the workers.
Slipping in a side-glance at other
nationalised industries, the report poses
this teaser to the Railway Executive:
In short, to raise the problem of com-
munication and of reporting back to the
railways, is to raise the question whether
the whole administrative structure is not,
from the human-relationship viewpoint,
fundamentally wrong.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Tons of Steel.
Some idea of the importance of the Aus-
tralian steel industry to New South Wales
and the Commonwealth was given the
other day by Mr. K. Butler, manager of
the Newcastle steelworks, in a talk to the
Newcastle Rotary Club. Last year the
blast-furnaces at Newcastle and Port
Kembla used 2,860,000 tons of coal, rep-
resenting 21 p.c. of all coal produced in
New South Wales. The works ate up
coal at the rate of tons a minute all
the year round, seasoning it with 4.1
tons of iron-ore a minute —a rate which
will grow to 5.8 tons a minute when the
new Port Kembla blast-furnace is in
production.
Illustrating the work involved in tro-
ducing a ton of steel, Mr. Butler told his
audience that first of all a ton and a half
of iron-ore had to be mined at Iron Knob
(S.A.), railed 33 miles to Whyalla, loaded
into a ship and brought 1200 miles to
Newcastle or Port Kembla, where it was
mixed with one-third of a ton of lime-
stone, carried a similar distance from
another South Australian port, and a ton
of coke (made from 1.8 tons of coking-
coal). After this blend had been heated
in a blast-furnace to produce one ton of
molten iron it was refined for 12 hours
to produce a ton of steel. Finally it was
re-processed into finished shape and
delivered to industry in all States of
Australia —at a cost of just under 3d. a
pound.
Industries in the Newcastle steel group,
including the B.H.P. collieries, employed
17,287 men, and the weekly wages-bill
exceeded £300,000, while in the course
of a year the revenue of the N. S. Wales
railways benefited to the tune of
£1,774,000 from carriage of the industry’s
raw materials and finished product.
Mr. Butler did not mention, though he
would have been quite justified in so
doing, that only a few months ago spokes-
men for the British iron- and steel-
founders, wishing to stress the efficiency
of their industry, claimed that Britain
produced steel at a lower cost than any
other country with the exception of
A ustralia.
Treason—or Not?
Last May Mr. Holt declared that he
refused to deny passports to the
Peking “peace” delegation because he
would not imitate the Nazis and Com-
munists and use arbitrary Government
action to interfere with the right of Aus-
tralian citizens to move where they de-
sired outside this country. Mr. Menzies
now has had a sensible afterthought
that “freedom of movement must be
limited where it actively assists those who
are fighting against Australia.”
With a flourish of trumpets the Foreign
Affairs Committee of Parliament has
called attention to the possibility of action
against members of the Burton delega-
tion, for a declaration, made last June,
which stated that “the Chinese guerrillas
fighting against the Crown in Malaya”
were contributing to the cause of peace
and “fighting for national liberation.”
Mr. Casey now says he will take the
advice of the Attorney-General.
Why the Foreign Affairs Committee
or anybody should be shocked at the
Peking delegation’s declaration in the
face of the kind of propaganda which has
been tolerated from the Communist party
of Australia ever since the Korean war
began is a mystery.
Here is a sample from a pamphlet called
“Hands Off Korea,” authorised a year ago
by A. Ogston, the Communist party’s
chief lecturer on illegal methods and
bearing on its front page the name E. W.
Campbell—he is head of the party’s
official Marx schools and came here
from Russia in 1937 to promote a “peace
campaign”:
Since Japan’s surrender in August, 1945,
more than 93,000 Korean workers and
patriots have been done to death in the
South arfd more than 150,000 imprisoned.
This is the sort of regime the Menzies
Government has sent Australian forces to
uphold in Korea. This is the sort of
regime the Government, with the con-
nivance of the Right-wing Tabor leaders,
would like to introduce into Australia.
It is perfectly clear... .that the American,
Australian and other imperialist forces in
Korea are not there to uphold the United
Nations charter, as they claim, but to
prosecute a filthy war to overthrow the
People’s Democratic Republic of Korea
and turn the country into an American
colony and advanced base for war against
Democratic China and the Socialist Soviet
Union.
There are hundreds of pages of Com-
munist “literature” of this type sold —
like this pamphlet, for about a tenth of
the cost of production—or dropped in
letter-boxes free by thousands.
Thir may or may not cause concern
in the world of Mr. Spicer, but
the relatives of the 184 Australians who
have been killed and of the 808 Austra-
lians who have been wounded or in-
jured in the Korean war have their own
feelings about it.
Another Evatt Ramp.
“Labor’s” reckless exploitation of the
inflated condition of the national
economy which the Commonwealth
Government is striving to correct has
been nowhere better' illustrated than in
the propaganda used by Opposition
speakers during the debates on the esti-
mates to increase the burden on the tax-
payers of non-contributory pensions.
The bill for age and invalid pensions
has already reached £72 million a year,
out of a total cost for “social security”
of over £164 million. “Labor” having
no responsibility for raising the extra
money —of an amount which these
“cheer-rousers” dare not specify —is
urging that all pensions should be
increased with basic-wage rises. Dr.
Evatt, leading this chorus, declared that
the Government should tie the pension-
rate to the cost-of-living index. His
speech on the Budget showed that he has
no conception of meeting this out of
taxation alone —however stiff —and that
these electioneering bids for the pen-
sioners’ votes can only involve a huge
issue of unbacked Treasury bills to swell
the inflation which is still a deadly
menace to industry and employment.
The irresponsibility of this “Labor”
ramp is demonstrated out of Dr. Evatt’s
own mouth, as was pointed out by Mr.
Pearce, of Capricornia, during the Budget
debate. In February, 1944, being then
deputy Prime Minister in the Chifley
Government, Dr. Evatt, moving the
second reading of his own Government’s
pensions bill of that year, said:
The main purpose of this bill is to give
legislative effect to the Government’s de-
cision to abandon the principle of linking
the rate of invalid and old-age pensions
with the cost-of-living figures, namely, the
C-index.
This is the man who aspires to get
himself into office with a cry against the
Menzies Government’s “crippling taxa-
tion” ; and this is one of the methods
he advocates for “restoring stability to
the national economy.” The electors of
Flinders, to which this barefaced mounte-
bankery is specially addressed, had better
watch their step.
Elegant Eloquence.
In a criticism of Parliamentary broad-
casts Mr. Osborne, Liberal M.H.R. for
Evans, said that if it was true that the
standard of debating had improved since
Canberra was put on the air he shud-
dered to think what it must have been
before. Listeners certainly have to put
up with some boring monologues and
unedifying dialogues from Canberra,
still, they might hear worse. This sort of
thing, for example, taken from a Queens-
land Assembly debate three weeks ago:
Mr. Turner (Labor, Kelvin Grove),
resuming his discourse after a short alter-
cation with Mr. Wordsworth (C.P., Cook):
I am reminded of a rhyme I heard in my
schooldays that went like this;
Rub-a-dub-dub, three men in a pub,
The butcher, the faker and the trouble-
Mr. Wordsworth: Hypocrite No. 1.
Mr. Turner: That remark is objection-
able to me and I demand its withdrawal.
The Speaker: What remark?
Mr. Turner; He called me a hypocrite.
The Speaker : Who called the honorable
member a hypocrite?
Mr. Turner (no doubt restraining him-
self with difficulty from making the obvious
quip): The honorable member for Cook.
The Speaker : I did not hear the remark.
Did the honorable member for Cook call
the honorable member for Kelvin Grove
a hypocrite? It is impossible for me to
hear anything with the noise that is going
on in the Chamber.
Mr. Wordsworth: I did not mention
his name, Mr. Speaker.
The Speaker: The honorable member
for Kelvin Grove.
Mr. Turner ; A withdrawal by the honor-
able member would not be worth having.
The Speaker : Silence.
Or, by way of contrast, this little pas-
sage, in which an apology was given,
though it is a matter of opinion whether
it was worth having:
Mr. Ewan (Opposition, referring to Bris-
bane Lord Mayor Roberts, who is also a
Labor M.L.A.): He would not print his
own ballot-paper, would he?
Mr. Devries (Government): I ask that
that be withdrawn.
Mr. Ewan: I simply asked a question.
Mr. Aikens (Ind.): Mr. Acting Speaker
just treat these dills as they should be
treated.
Mr. Low (C.P.): The honorable member
for Mundingburra should iV Jbe asked to
apologise.
Mr. Aikens : I’ll apologise to all dills.
Finally, an example where no apology
was asked or given:
Mr. Lloyd Roberts (C.P.): The honor-
able member for Mundingburra referred to
honorable members opposite and spoke of
us as being dingoes to a man.
Mr. Aikens : I said “jingoes.” Why
doesn’t the honorable member clean the
wax out of his ears?
A Marvel in Marble.
As far as can be gathered from the
reports in three Sydney daily papers,
both the N.S.W, Premier, Mr. Cahill,
and his Commissioner for Railways, Mr.
Winsor, have maintained their com-
posure during all the criticism of heavy
N.S.W. railway losses (£2.45 million last
year) because all the time, at Sydney’s
Central Station,' a thing was coming into
being which would restore business to
the railways and pull them out of the
red.
Stirred by reports that Mr. Cahill “pre-
dicted a successful year for the railways,”
that Mr. Winsor was “not dismayed,”
though railway revenue for August was
£650,000 below estimates, and that
Minister for Transport Sheahan, the
Country-party leader and “several mem-
bers of Cabinet” were more or less
stirred by these remarks, a Bulletin man
went to Central to inspect the thing.
It turned out to be a new booking-
office for inter-State railway-travellers.
It’s lined with marble and camphorwood,
there’s a large map of Australia cut into
the floor marble, and friezes all round
the walls depicting the history of trans-
port, but with no reference to motor-
cars or aeroplanes. On one side are a
couple of coy glassed offices, richly fur-
nitured, in which the customer may dis-
cuss with a courteous official the chances
of getting a hot-dog at Moss Vale or a
beer at Werris Creek. In front, behind
barriers of glass and polished wood,
gentle officials await. There are three (3)
chairs for waiting customers, a writing-
desk and a telephone.
One passes through heavy glass doors
and stands momentarily astonished, not
sure whether it’s a hotel-foyer, a picture-
show lounge or the reception-room of
one of the more successful funeral par-
lors. What it really needs is a three-
stringed orchestra, an aspidistra and bis-
cuits and cheese to complete a perfect
air of luxury. However, just outside
there is a beautifully decorated lolly-
shop, which undoubtedly helps.
What it cost the gods alone know.
How the deuce it will induce people to
travel by train who prefer to travel some
other way is also the gods’ secret. Mr.
Winsor’s reaction to it was to say, “I
regard myself as the general-manager of
a large industrial undertaking.” To which
it seems somewhat cruel, though apt, to
point out that no large industrial under-
taking—except one run by a Govern-
ment —would have blithely spent the
thousands this marvel of marble cost
while the undertaking itself was losing
millions.
Too Right, Mr. Sheahan!
Mr. Sheahan’s typist’s error does not
alter the implications of the startling
disclosure on which he demands “a full
and independent inquiry” into the
administration of his Transport Depart-
ment. The public will demand it, too.
A ninth-power official of the depart-
ment, according to the Minister’s state-
ment, while possessing a gold pass which
franked him over rail, tram and bus
routes in all directions, used instead a car,
petrol and a bus-driver as chauffeur, all
at the public expense, to the tune of
£606-odd between January 1 and August
16 this year—say £BO a month, plus cost
of his gold pass, plus inevitable personal
travelling allowances. So much for the
impression the bankruptcy of transport
services makes on one senior Government
official. Other statements suggest that
the car used belonged to a whole fleet
kept for use of tram and bus mandarins.
The railways again have a car-fleet of
their own ; in answer to a question about
this Mr. Sheahan undertook to inquire
into “the number and use of this fleet.”
With Brigham Young, lord of the
Mormon community, in his palmy days
it was a boast that he had not the slightest
idea how many children he had begotten.
Mr. Sheahan seems to be similarly
unembarrassed by ignorance as to how
many cars his department has accumu-
lated and for what purposes. What he
does know is that one thing and another
have bumped up his department’s run-
ning costs to an all-time high, so that even
this spendthrift “Labor” Government can
no longer ignore the imminence of
financial collapse.
The plain meaning of abuses now for
the first time admitted by any Minister is
that discipline and supervision are becom-
ing extinct in this chief-spending Govern-
ment department, and—remembering past
disclosures in Mr. Clive Evatt’s Housing
Department, the inexplicable delays and
outrageous costs of the Pyrmont. power-
house and the missing contract files (still
missing) from the railway department—
it is reasonable to suspect that the rot is
widespread. One union official says that
Government foremen are simply not game
to report what has been going on.
General Cassels Transferred.
“Ek Dum” : Major-General A. J.
Cassels, who has handed over the
command of the British Commonwealth
Division in the U.S.-controlled Eighth
Army in Korea, deserves the thanks of
the Australian people. He has held to-
gether, with great skill and tact, a mixed
formation of British regulars and national-
service men, Australians and Canadian
volunteers and some other Empire troops,
and ip 16 months has welded them into a
formation unique in modern war.
Probably no polyglot division in history
has ever carried on with such
excellent integration and in such amity,
or, for that matter, with such efficiency
and economy in the use of materiel. And
no division has ever fitted itself with less
friction into a foreign-commanded army.
The sector which the division has held
has been about the most important on
the Korean front. It is the gateway to
Seoul, the one of which any major opera-
tion by the enemy has been most likely
to occur.
It has therefore been essential that in
it up-to-the-minute watchfulness and
efficiency should be maintained, a highly
difficult matter during the past year of
“cease-fire,” which has not been cease-
fire at all. Unassuming and alert. General
Cassels achieved the seemingly impossible.
Now, young, vigorous and fast becom-
ing a legendary figure like his father, who
was Commander-in-Chief in India, and
the tales about whom a new Kipling
would be needed to tell, he goes on to
higher command in Germany.
If there is another World War he is
likely to rank high in its conduct. It is to
be hoped that while he is in Australia
he will be asked to Canberra to receive
the thanks of Parliament, on behalf of
all Australians.
Court and Defence Powers.
Judgment of the High Court in the
capital-issues case showed the majority
of the Bench approving of legislation
under the constitutional defence power
as it did not 18 months previously in
the Communist case, but with no abate-
ment of the court’s right to pronounce
on the threat of war which would bring
the defence power into operation. The
altered majority attitude was grounded,
to some extent in the finding that the
capital-issues regulations were of general
application and not, as in the earlier issue,
proceedings directed against a particular
body in the community.
In the Communist case Latham, C.J.,
alone held that “governing questions in
relation to defence and protection of
constitutional government are questions
of policy with which the court has
nothing to do.” Against him it was
declared by the other six judges that “the
defence power has hitherto been regarded
as operable only in a time of serious
armed conflict,” and “that the case must
be considered as substantially on the
same basis as if a state of peace ostensibly
existed” (Dixon, J., Williams and Kitto,
JJ., in their own words agreeing); that
“in a period of grave emergency” the
opinion of Parliament in the Communist
case would be sufficient, but “in time
of peace or when there is no immediate
danger of war the position is otherwise”
(McTiernan, J.); that “without the ruling
in the Jehovah Witnesses case my con-
clusion in this case might have been
different” (Webb, J.); that “the defence
power is concerned with protection
against external enemies,” and “while I
am not prepared to hold that nothing
short of war can bring into play a fully
extended defence power, each case must
be examined as and when it arises.”
(Fullagar, J.)
In the present (capital-issues) case, in
which the Government relied upon the
grounds put forward in preamble to the
Defence Preparations Act, the decision
in its favor was by majority of four
judges to two —the six being the same
six who unanimously declared against
the Government’s use of the defence
power in the Communist case. Dixon,
C.J., pointed out that the consequences
of restraint did not fall upon a particular
company or person, and held that while
“the distinction between actual hostilities
and apprehended danger can never be
disregarded.... the restrictions are such
as a country may feel constrained to
make under threat of war as much as
when engaged in actual hostilities.”
Three judges with him declared:
Any measure answering description of
preparation for war which Parliament
intended the executive should have authority
to take is warranted by the Defence
(Continued on next page.)


Esdalle’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
“ TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
gd
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece,
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw. Mag. x 25.
£l5/15/-
+l2±% Sales Tax
g
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.'
42 HUNTER smFT, SYDNEY-
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ei YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
(C-
• and jazz has begun,
And frivolous flappers are out for
fun.
Seeking the scenes where the arc-
lights glare,
Taking a chance in the chill night
air.
O Sadie and Maisie and Edna and
May,
What will poor father and mother
say
In the “wee small hours” if there’s “ ’flu” to
endure,
Without your
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cure.
Preparations Act and is within the defence
power. The measures mentioned within
the preamble could conduce to the suc-
cessful preparation for war, and without
them such preparations may be reasonably
regarded as incomplete. (McTiernan, J.)
The Constitution authorises the Defence
Preparations Act and any adjustment of the
economy as a step essential to the success
of war preparations generally. The content
of the defence power is determined by
practical considerations of the danger of
attack by external enemies. It is notorious
that there is a distinct possibility of a third
world war at no remote period, which
might begin w'ithout warning. (Webb, J.)
It is impossible for a court to say that
the view taken of the situation by Parlia-
ment and the Government, as expressed in
the preamble, is not justified. (Fullagar, J.)
The two judges against present opera-
tion of the defence power said:
There is no clear line of demarcation
between extent of the power in peace-time
and during hostilities. In August, 1951
(date of regulations challenged), all that
was certain was that there was severe inter-
national tension and danger of a third
world war and that preparations on a large
scale to defend the Commonwealth were
urgent. This is a state that might last for
years. The capital-issue regulations, con-
sistently with the attitude which the court
has adopted to the exercise of defence
power in the past, can only be supported
by that power when the nation is placed
on a war footing under the immediate
apprehension of hostilities. (Williams, J.)
The court’s constitutional duty of decid-
ing the limits of the defence power should
be performed with a lively appreciation....
of the serious error it would be to adopt
a too narrow or pedantic test. The regula-
tions could assist a multitude of purposes
which cannot be said to have any greater
significance for defence than for the
general advancement of the country. They
therefore cannot be held to have a speci-
fically defence character unless we are to
say that in these days it is primarily for
defence that the national economy exists.
(Kitto, J.)
The questions whether it is proper that
(1) even so august a body as the High
Court should have the power to veto the
judgment of the national political execu-
tive, supported by Parliament, on the
reality of a threat of war —a stand taken
not without the implication that it is
open to the Government, by stating its
grounds, to convince the court —and (2)
that the High Court should from time
to time determine, publicly, whether war
is more imminent than it was—these
questions still remain. From either aspect
the exercise of this responsibility by the
court seems highly dangerous.
POLITICAL POINTS
In Saturday’s. by-election for the
Toorak seat in the Victorian Assembly,
vacant through the resignation of Ted
Reynolds, the L.-C.P. scraped home by
less than 100 votes. H. R. Petty is the
new member. Doc. Evatt ascribes the
fall in the Lib. vote to the alleged mis-
deeds of the Menzies Government. The
Federal Government’s decline in popu-
larity certainly played a part, but the
more potent factor was the present
rottenness of Victorian State politics.
If Hollway, late Premier of Victoria,
with followers, makes a pact with Cain to
become Premier again with “Labors”
support the only combination not tried
would then be a “Labor”-Lib.-C.P.
Government.
When the N. S. Wales Transport Com-
mission was abolished a few weeks ago
and its director, R. Winsor, was appointed
Railways Commissioner his salary dropped
from £5500 to £5OOO a year. According to
“Sunday Herald” Winsor asked Premier
Cahill to let his screw continue at the old
rate “as a matter of prestige,” but Cabinet
saw no reason for increasing the statutory
salary for the railways job. That’s one
Cabinet decision with which no one will
argue. Prestige, forsooth!
For a day or sa after the liquor com-
mission ended homeward - bound
Sydneyites in traih, tram, bus and feny
turned over the pages of their evening
papers with an air of puzzlement as
though something was missing. By Friday
night they had settled down to the comic-
strips again.
The final day’s hearing produced at least
one surprise—a nightclub proprietor who
admitted that talk of ordering liquor
before 5.30 p.m. was so much nonsense.
The Prime Minister told a Press con-
ference the other day that:
Even if somebody with all the authority
in the world to cut expenditure to the bone
were to subject administration to the closest
scrutiny, I doubt if it would make very
much difference.
This was in reply to a Chamber of
Commerce statement that there should
be an “economy overhaul” of Govern-
ment departments. Despite the Prime
Minister’s comment some sort of
examination is still necessary. On the
very day he spoke it was announced that
the A.B.C. and the Snowy River
Authority found it cheaper to use private
hire-cars than Government ones.
Whether the debit of £606 9s. 2d. for
services of a bus - driver - chauffeur
employed to drive a transport officer
“ninth from the top in seniority” covered
six weeks, as stated by Billy Sheahan on
Thursday, or seven and a half months, as
amended by him on Friday, is beside the
point. What the taxpayers are entitled
to know is how a Government transport
official, with a pass entitling him to free
travel on Government trams and trains,
can justify his use of a full-time chauffeur.
A further point. Is this chauffeur habit
peculiar to the anonymous ninth official,
or did he take his cue from the eighth,
seventh, sixth.... and so on up through
the whole hierarchy?
Is this what they mean by political
dynamite?
Mr. Cornell, M.L.A. for Mt. Marshall,
speaking in the W.A. Assembly on the
Oats Marketing Bill: The explosive effect
of the Bikini swimsuit on the male is
nothing to the explosive effect this Oat Bill
has had on certain sections of the com-
munity It has been said that what the
Bikini swimsuit reveals is interesting, but
what it conceals is vital. Possibly the same
can be said of this bill.
According to one authority the Chinese
used to have a law under which the first
person found attending an accident victim
was held responsible for medical and
other expenses. The result was that when
anybody was hurt everyone else ran
away. Something like the same philo-
sophy seems to be behind the N.S.W.
“reform” making motorists responsible
for accidents though they may not have
caused them.
In the course of his “foreign-order”
campaign Mr. Sheahan might look into
rumors that the most elaborate cocktail-
cabinet ever seen outside Hollywood has
been made at the State Dockyard, New-
castle, for presentation to a V.I.P. —time
and materials, of course, “on the house,”
Mexico’s “formula” for breaking the
deadlock at Panmunjon seems as futile
as anything yet suggested. To expect the
Communists to agree to a plan which will
“permit prisoners who do not want to
go home to migrate to neutral countries”
shows a lack of appreciation of the issues
involved. Acceptance would be tanta-
mount to an admission by the Reds that
they had had in their “volunteer” armies
large numbers of men who now prefer
exile rather than a return to Communist
China.
Let nobody accuse N.S.W. Electricity
Commission of having done nothing since
its inception four or five years ago. Last
January it paid just on £150,000 for a
city building; it now plans to add six
stories to it for a further £150,000, and
the other day it bought another building
for £40,000. Of course, it hasn’t pro-
duced much extra electricity yet, but we
can’t have everything.
When Calwell urged that the entire
R.A.A.F., or most of it, should be shifted
to Northern Australia the Air Beef plan-
ning manager of A.N.A. promptly pro-
posed that the planes should carry out all
their bombing practice there for the quick
production of large holes which would
fill with rainwater for cattle-runs. Mean-
while, in “that land of romance in more
senses than one” (Minister Kent Hughes’s
contribution), Darwin reports from
residents of the “worn-out town” of
Borroloola (Carpentaria) that mobs of
great wild-cats —not identified so far with
The Bulletin’s variety—have invaded
the district from somewhere in the south
and are killing all Borroloola’s goats.
“They are so big,” it is reported, “that
natives in fear are barricading the doors
of their bark humpies at night”—and
presumably having locking devices fitted
to their louvre windows and Venetian
blinds.
A legal fight developed between two
people over some tractors and cranes sold
by the Victorian State Electricity Com-
mission. One of the parties told the Vic.
Supreme Court that the equipment was
worth “easily £11,000.” Sold by tender it
brought £2850. The Vic. S.E.C. had to
tell its creditors the other day that it
doubted whether it could meet its
obligations just now.
To avoid any misconception it should
be clearly understood that the N. S. Wales
Government’s decision to amend the
Poisons Act has nothing whatever to do
with the proceedings of the liquor
commission.
While Australian wheatgrower organi-
sations were arguing the point about a
new “stabilisation” scheme, about sub-
scribing to a new International Wheat
Agreement, and complaining that “ c o n "
cessions” to Australian consumers had
cost them about £3O million, news came
that both U.S.A. and Canada have thump-
ing crops on top of big carryovers from
previous seasons, and that American
growers have been invited to cut their
acreages by 8 p.c. Up bobbed Wheat
Board chairman Teasdale to say this will
not affect Australian growers because
their wheat isn’t sold in the dollar area.
Does he believe that sterling-area prices
can hold their present record levels
against the pressure of millions of bushels
of dollar wheat?
“Mufti,” official organ of the Victorian
R.S.L., quotes 26 lines of wisdom about
“freedom of religion in China,” published
in “People’s China,” an official Govern-
ment organ, by Commissar Wu Tao-
tsung. It then quotes an almost identical
passage uttered in June over Peking
Radio by the Rev, G. S. Van Eerde, Aus-
tralian peace delegate, as his own opinion.
The only difference between the two
versions is that Comrade Wu says that
“missionaries tried to spread terror
among Chinese Christians,” and Mr. Van
Eerde says “enemies of the Govern-
ment” did it.
On September 3 the Communist
“Tribune” listed among delegates for the
Peking Picnic “Miss Lucy Woodcock,
headmistress of Erskineville public school,
vice-president of the New Education
Fellowship and the Teachers’ Federa-
tion.” On September 10 Minister for
Education Heffron announced that there
would be no more leave granted to
schoolteachers this year except in special
circumstances. Any connection?
N.S.W. Liberals are urging the Cahill
Government to restrict to one year the
period during which closer-settlement
proclamations on land may operate. They
hold that proclamations should lapse if
the land is not resumed within 12 months,
and that such land should not be re-
proclaimed for at least five years. Long-
standing proclamations have certainly
done much to hold up production on
thousands of acres, whose owners can’t
make a move.
A Communist-patronised and -boosted
“cultural” conference meets this week in
Sydney to “defend the Henry Lawson
tradition” against “Keon, Wentworth and
Gullett, gangster-comics, trashy films and
radio rubbish.” Clive Evatt, M.L.A., will
open it, and the plays will be produced
by “the variety producer of the A.8.C.”
A.L.P. and Government observers and a
horde of mugs will be present, blind-
folded.
Sydney Railways Commissioner Winsor
has proclaimed his intention of running
the railways “as though they were a
private undertaking.” Is that a promise
to make ’em pay? Or does it merely
mean that he is going to induce the Gov-
ernment to stop trying to protect the rail-
ways against competition from road
transport? Final thought: Is he going
to insist on being levied for rates and
taxes on the same scale as private
concerns?
In Perth a religious ceremony has been
held to lay a ghost which has been
reputedly worrying the occupants of a
house it once owned. Federal “Labor’ is
constantly harassed by ghosts from its
past. Perhaps it might pay the Doc, to
hunt up the recipe for exorcism.
Last month, when the Queensland
Assembly passed a motion of condolence
with the family of “Bombshell” Barnes,
Premier Gair commented “With all my
Christian charity I cannot believe that
Mr. Barnes could be said to have served
any real purpose in this Parliament. The
sequel: Mrs. Barnes has thanked the
Speaker for his personal sympathy and
the Opposition parties for their letter, but
has returned the House’s motion with the
comment that she cannot accept it because
of the remarks of the Premier.
When Matthews, “Labor” M.L.A. for
Leichhardt, hinted that he intended to
raise in caucus the question of confining
racecourse betting to the tote, it looked
for a moment as if the pawnshop-win-
dows might soon be bursting with
bookies’-bags. But only for a moment;
Premier Cahill issued a prompt state-
ment that his Government was not
considering abolishing the books.
New Zealanders are wondering whether
the free health service has turned the
people of Dunedin into bedridden invalids
or just chronic hypochondriacs —in five
years five doctors in that city collected
more than a quarter of a million pounds
from the Social Security Fund.
South Australian A.L.P. is urging the
“co-ordination of all traujport services
under a Minister of Transport, and the
management of railways and tramways
by boards on which employees would be
represented.” The people responsible for
this ought to be sent to see how it works
in N.S.W., whose Government has just
found it necessary to kill a Transport
Commission set up on the same theory
and which ran N.S.W. into the bad to the
tune of £lO million in a couple of years.


STROLLER STRIFE.


This word is your
LEGAL GUARANTEE
of truly Old Whisky
W:
#
<».h
%
o
By Commonwealth Law, when a Whisky is bottled
under Australian Customs and Excise Department
supervision, it must not be labelled “OLD” unless
it has been matured for at least five years.
Look for the word “OLD”
Some brands of whisky are aged less than half as
long as Corio Special. But without age, a whisky
cannot be mellow. Only Corio Special possesses
all the Special virtues that careful blending of
aged whiskies can bring.
Corio Special
Australia’s old whisky
C4O/16
Circular Chart* for all type*
of Recording Instruments
for any (Uu of Machinery
•r Equipment
meter Chari's ■ Sp«cu hj
JACK^SSOSILUVANRsv.U.
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
%
ii%
'4*
G^
*
This monster Aus-
tralian-built electric crane
straddling the new Steel
Sheet Mill at Lysaght’s
C.R.M. Division, Port
Kembla, goes into action
like a giant.
When ample supplies of
suitable raw steel are avail-
able, this kind of handling will help to produce an
additional 80,000 tons of high quality steel a year
treble the former output. Australia is clamouring
for this steel to help step up the delivery of cars
and trucks, refrigerators, ranges and other domestic
appliances. Australia’s defence needs, too. call tor
more and more of this sheet steel.
a c r.
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Grenfell Street
Bristol Works Limited.
- . ' ' CB4A-51
Business. Rollery. Etc.
The Key to Recovery
The Australian economy is
not yet in good enough condi-
tion to stand a course of credit-
expansion tonic. The fever of
inflation, and the causes of the
fever, have not yet been driven
out of our system. But there is
little doubt that the fever is
abating.
Our inflationary temperature
has fallen a good deal, and we
are at that stage where, if we go
on with the present treatment,
we will be a healthier people
economically before long, even if
we feel a bit washed out after it
is all over.
The cause of our economic
fever at present is low output
per head per week, with conse-
quently increasing production
costs. In previous years our
troubles were added to by high
export prices for wool tending to
increase the fever. The aggra-
vation of a superabundance of
money in a community that was
producing too few goods in
relation to its consumption
added strength to the infla-
tionary forces.
Today money is much tighter
and jobs are harder to get. In
many factories the output per
worker each week has increased
very considerably sometimes
over 20 or 30 per cent. This has
occurred without wage-earners
being in any way “sweated” ; it
just happens that they are more
diligently at work now and wast-
ing less time. In some of the
key industries, too, there have
been fewer industrial stop-
pages. Thus in the coal and
steel industries output in total
has risen very considerably, and
though the cost of these basic
materials is still going up, the
fact that they are in more regu-
lar supply means that industries
dependent upon them can carry
on without costly interruption.
Even the supply of electricity
has become much more regular
over the past few months.
Before we can claim to be in
full economic health again, how-
ever, all essential industries will
need to be doing a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay. The
general level of costs will at
least have to be stabilised be-
fore we can look to the future
with any confidence. In some
industries costs, in terms of
money, will need to be brought
down. In all industries produc-
tion, in terms of man-hours, will
have to increase, and that will
mean a reduction of costs in the
most real sense of the term.
Transport as well as industry
will have to improve greatly in
efficiency. Where coal was a
bottleneck a year or two ago,
rail transport is now the chief
obstacle to industrial develop-
ment. And, oddly, while goods
are held up for lengthy periods
because of the inadequacy of our
rail-transport systems, State
transport authorities continue to
obstruct the road haulage of
goods in every possible way. This
is in order to bolster up their
railway systems, which are not
run efficiently, anyway. Whilst
railwaymen are sheltered from
the economic consequences of
“go-slow” and the like they are
unlikely to improve in efficiency
the way other industry will be
forced to do.
When production improves
all-round to the point where
costs are showing stability in
terms of money and actually
falling in terms of man-hours,
then the Federal Government
will be justified in relaxing its
credit policy so as to take up
any slack in employment that
may exist. But whilst there is
very little surplus labor avail-
able any Federal money made
available for State Government
purposes will need to have a
priority-string attached to it.
Bank credit, for example, should
only be made available for jobs
which have the very highest
priority as matters of national
necessity.
Among such jobs will be those
national works which tend to
make production by private in-
dustry greater, easier and
“By cli! Me takie plisoner, then me givie him
back — yes, no ?”
cheaper. It may be that this
country cannot hope to compete
with overseas countries in many
fields of manufacturing. But
while we have only a limited
export income out of which to
provide for the cost of imported
goods we shall have to exercise
our manufacturing skill and
ingenuity to its greatest possible
extent in order to provide those
things which we cannot other-
wise obtain; and by sticking
diligently to the task we should
in the end face any kind of com-
petition on even terms. But we
shall never do so until we really
get down to work in a serious
way; and in our present back-
ward state as an industrial coun-
try the 40-hour week is com-
pletely out of place.
But let no man think that
credit-restriction is clamped on
Australia for all time. Just as
soon as trade-unionists as a
body show that they are pre-
pared to do a fair week’s work
for a fair week’s pay, and to
continue to do it even in con-
ditions approaching full em-
ployment, then it will be per-
fectly sound economics to find
—or even produce—the money
necessary to carry out essential
national works.
Capital Issues Control
The fact that the High Court
has found the capital-issues
control regulations valid in the
case of the appeals by Marcus
Clark and Co., Ltd., and R. B.
Davies Industries, Ltd., does
not mean that those in control
of the regulation of capital
issues necessarily have fulfilled
their duties in the best interests
of the nation. The High Court
has merely upheld the powers of
the powers-that-be.
Actually, in the case of R. B.
Davies Industries, Ltd., there is
evidence to suggest that Capital
Issues Control has exercised its
powers to the detriment of the
national effort. The R. B.
Davies concern runs a vital
Australian industry, which
did a munitions job second to
none in World War 11. It is the
largest single manufacturer of
builders’ hardware in the Com-
monwealth, and it is highly effi-
cient. And the particular pro-
ject for which it sought Capi-
tal Issues consent to a new issue
of shares was of outstanding
national importance.
In 1950 R. B. Davies Indus-
tries arranged with the York-
shire Copper Works, Ltd., of
Leeds, to enter into a joint
arrangement for the manufacture
of capillary non-ferrous fittings
which permit the use of light-
gauge copper water- and gas-
pipes in buildings. Ills a system
in which soldered joints displace
threaded joints, and because no
thread has to be cut the piping
used can be much lighter, with
a saving of expensive brass and
copper. Plumbing work can be
done much more quickly by this
method, which is in almost uni-
versal use in Britain.
The financial arrangement was
that the Yorkshire concern
would provide 51 p.c. of the
capital of an Australian sub-
sidiary co., R. B. Davies to put
up the other 49 p.c. But Capital
Issues refused consent to the
Davies portion, and persistent
refusal followed subsequent
requests.
The whole matter is an
arresting example of the some-
times-misused power of the
bureaucrat over essential in-
dustry. The Prime Minister
and the Treasurer should con-
sider the numerous cases in
which Capital Issues consent
has been given to issues for pur-
poses of much less importance
to the national effort, and then
demand of Capital Issues Control
its reasons for refusing to sanc-
tion funds for a project which,
on the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s own admission, would
result in a 50 p.c. saving in cop-
per used in piping installations
at a time when copper in Aus-
tralia is a scarce and very
expensive metal.
Queensland Coal
“W’gabba”: Early in the year
it was announced that Brisbane
City Council would pay 100 per
cent, extra for 500 tons of Cal-
lide coal weekly for three
months in an effort to build up
council powerhouse supplies be-
cause of coal stocks depleted
during the miners’ annual holi-
days. It was a sore point with
Sir John Chandler, because West
Moreton supplies of equal or
better quality could be obtained
from Ipswich at £2 19s. a ton,
whilst Callide coal, delivered at
New Farm powerhouse, cost
£5 18s. per ton.
Lud Mayor Roberts can now
effect economies in his desperate
council financial situation by
insisting that supplies should be
all obtained from Ipswich, where
there is no shortage of coal. City
Electric Light Co. did not seem
to like Callide coal any more
than the council at that price,
and found a way out through
securing mines of its own at
Ipswich.
An announcement made pub-
lic the fact that City Electric
Light’s subsidiary (Queensland
Industries Pty., Ltd.) had secured
a controlling interest in the
Bonnie Dundee group of mines
at Bundamba and would shortly
be operating there. Their main
target will be the well-known
“Four-foot” seam, reputed by
many old miners to have been
the best steam coal on the Ips-
wich field. The main colliery is
situated on the Bundamba loop-
line, where its outcrop straddles
the Bundamba anticline. It
achieves sft. thickness, and, in
addition, there is 6ft. of “top
coal” which will be worked.
Sizeable areas have also been
secured on the flank of the anti-
cline, where it is probable the
Bluff seam will be also worked,
giving a long lease of supplies to
City Electric powerhouses. Their
“packet” powerhouse, newly
erected near Abermain, North
Ipswich, landed most of its dol-
lar-purchased heavy machinery a
couple of months ago, and
should be in operation before
the end of the year.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIS $
osuixrvA*
txfiz
TRADE
MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS ANIS WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC UOAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
gd
. . . BUT HIS
WEARS A
)NEO-
BARREBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAKKBIJRK
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You •will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAEKEKE DISXKIBUTION CO.
(Dept. Sc), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
‘I am a Manufacturer
S
Success in my business requires a combination of
sound technical and financial management.
I always consult my A.N.Z. Bank Manager
concerning financial matters and
have found his advice and experience invaluable.”
A-N-Z
W
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London
AGENTS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD
ANZ. IQ. 377
m
\a.
c
m
*5
'•tn
I «
■M
m?
r»7/ it flys
\
PARIS 1865
ANDELLE’S new design for a helicopter has
created a stir in aeronautical circles. Using
entirely new principles, it promises if
successful safe and steady flight. It will derive its lift from
horizontal screws, and its forward progress from a propeller
in the tail. Steam will be the source of power. Monsieur de
la Landelle, when interviewed today, was full of enthusiasm
for the project. “This design,” he said, “has everything
that an aeroplane should have, even parachutes to check
the descent should anything go wrong. Can you imagine
anything in aviation today more sure and efficient?”
“Yes,” we said, “the BP Aviation Service. Moreover,
we all know from experience that it works, and works well.”
“How right you are,” said Landelle, “or at least, how right
you will be.”
AVIATION
f
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED, All States.
An Associate of Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, Limited, London.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Money is short. And that
doesn’t refer only to empty
pockets and low bank-balances
at the end of summer, after holi-
days, entertaining and family
outings have absorbed more
than was set aside to meet them.
Money is short because it is
scarce, because credit-restriction
so successfully denies the facili-
ties for borrowing which are,
we now realise, so flexible and
so valuable a function of nor-
mal life. Bank - managers,
especially those in the outer
suburbs whose accounts are
chiefly private ones, are near to
despair from having to say “no”
with such impotent firmness.
Even so, the stringency of
these fiscal measures still falls
short of some demands from
authoritative sources, and they
are justifiable on the very sound
premise that it is better to bear
with slight muscular pains now
and recover than to slip indul-
gently by until overtaken by
creeping paralysis.
Stay-put Housing
Since the Treasury directive on
too-easy mortgages has also ex-
tended to the building societies
and insurance companies, the
bottom has dropped right out of
the owner-occupied property
market. The lack of new houses
has not worked altogether to the
disadvantage of estate-agents,
for it heightened the demand. A
prospective buyer, living pre-
cariously and expensively in
furnished rooms, has not
minded paying a high price for
a home of his own ; and keen
competition among prospective
mortgagees, actively seeking a
good investment at a guaran-
teed minimum rate of interest
at a time of cheap money, has
stimulated the trade.
Mr. Butler’s Budget last
March, with its p.c. increase
in the bank rate and severe
clamping-down on loans, had an
effect that was as sure as it was
sudden. Hard cash, and plenty
of it, became the first condition
for an intending buyer. A good
average house in outer London
costs upwards of £3500. Mort-
gages are still obtainable, but
only to those who can find
about a quarter of the purchase-
price and whose incomes will
stand, under the selective
scrutiny of the mortgagee, re-
payments of the balance. Such
people are comparatively few,
especially those with £lOOO
readily available.
Housing generally is a thorny
topic in Britain. The present
Government is letting its hand
slip where new building is con-
cerned, and is determined to
give priority to homes for the
people at all costs, whether of
labor, materials, education or
industry. Less criticism is
directed at this attitude than at
the large-scale deterioration in
existing property, due to . the
effect of the successive Rent Re-
striction Acts. Intended to pro-
tect tenants against rapacious
landlords, rents have been fixed
at levels which now are not only
unprofitable but even sometimes
less than the cost of repairs.
Older people, enjoying the low
rent, are not moving into
smaller houses to make way for
large families. Naturally, there
is strenuous and determined
opposition to increased rents. As
the problem is not one that
either political party can tackle
objectively, for fear of unpopu-
larity, the situation grows
worse, with whole rows of
houses deteriorating into slum
property.
The “News Chronicle” has
made the somewhat sensational
discovery that landlords are not
merely anxious to give their
property away, but are finding
it difficult to do so. They have
to resort to such extreme de-
vices as conveying it to tramps
or other parties beyond the
reach of the tenant. Another
instance in the Welfare State of
good intentions gone astray.
Once it was the impecunious
tenant whose last resort was the
midnight flit. Now it appears to
be the landlord.
Psychiatricks
If farce is broad and extrava-
gant and comedy subtle and
stylistic, what then is farcical
comedy? That this type of play
—a sure money-spinner when it
takes on —suffers from a high
mortality rate is all too clear
from the long history of failures.
The author’s touch must be
light, his inventive skill much
greater than it is made to seem,
his wit unforced and his
theatrical sense sure and in-
tuitive. One name comes at
once to mind —Noel Coward —
perhaps the only writer who has
both this composite flair and the
capacity to turn ’em out, one
after the other, apparently with-
out effort. As difficult to write
as to act, the farcical comedy is
at once elusive and deceptive.
Absurdity and humored non-
sense are ill-at-ease companions.
In “The Happy Marriage”
(Duke of York’s theatre) John
Clements manages to strike a
fair balance, overcoming some
of these major problems, in his
free adaptation of Jean Bernard
Luc’s “Le Complexe de Phile-
mon.” He takes a farcical
situation but allows no knock-
about stuff in the acting of it,
which is charged with polish
and style.
An ancient theme —that inter-
ference plays havoc with
marriage—rather overshadows
the implied Philemon complex
(excessive wife-devotion). The
equally modern, if essentially
corny, incidence of a crack-
brained psychiatrist sets the
snowball a-rolling. Helen (Kay
Hammond) is worried about
Henry (the same John Clements),
and Henry is worried about
Helen. The psychiatrist, strain-
ing like a bloodhound on the
scent, lets go with his odd
notions to both partners, neither
being aware of the other’s con-
sultation. Each must transfer
(temporarily, of course) his
affection, which introduces the
Best Friends—an impossible
socialite (Frances Rowe) and
her husband, a chuffy moron
(Michael Shepley). The first act
is quickfire, light as gossamer,
entirely captivating, and holds
out a promise of more to come.
Helped along by the comic
psychiatrist (Charles Lloyd
Pack), who is the one conces-
sion made to farce and who is
profuse as the sorcerer’s appren-
tice, this frolicsome act gives an
impetus to the play which
carries it through, with steadily-
declining momentum, until it
slows rather naively to a dead
stop some minutes before the
final curtain.
Miss Hammond makes up for
the thinness of some of the writ-
ing by the ebullience of her
comedy and discards the
plummy, lolloping mannerisms
familiar to radio-listeners. Her
husband-devotion also saves the
play from possible lapses into
bad taste, for it is plain from
the start that this Henry will
never be allowed to take hold
of the bit. John Clements is
amusing enough in a stock part.
Besides being author and actor,
he also presents and produces.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“H.H.” (England); Taxgatherers never
give up! The Rev. J, L. Livermore, rector
of Morden, near London, has received an
official notification from the local town
council (hat unless he pays the taxes for
the graveyard the money will be sought
“from the occupiers of the property.”
* * * *
“Macquarie”: To be up-to-the-minute
the youthful motor-cyclist must, it seems,
christen his machine after the current
girl-friend and flaunt a metal sign to that
effect. Beyond mentally debating whether
it is the custom to have a number of de-
tachable plates so that Shirley is not
thortified by being sped along on Dot,
I’ve never regarded as incongruous the
practice of naming a motor-bike after a
girl. After all, both are generally modern,
fast, and done-up to catch the eye. But
when I saw a huge truck with “Miss
Joan” skilfully painted across the bonnet I
was filled with misgivings. No doubt,
as a truckdriver sees things, there could
be no higher compliment to a girl than
to christen his beloved bus after her, but
the feminine viewpoint is notoriously
askew. Suppose the lass chose to inter-
pret the gesture as an implication that she
is built for rough-usage rather than
"Now, John, it would pay you to watch how HE takes a right-hand turn"
beauty, weighs tons, is awkward and
cumbersome and more often than not
needs a good wash!
♦ * * *
“Quizzo”: It happened on a Jack
Davey show. Contestant was asked
“Who was Calpurnia’s husband?” He
hadn’t a clue, and he didn’t make any
bones about it. “Aw, I dunno,” he said.
“Some American, I suppose.”
“Cauboy”: Incentives in industry?
Watching the greatest hero of my child-
hood dealing it out to a succession of
knights in compleat armor in the
“Ivanhoe” film, I remarked to my com-
panion that I had never seen on the screen
a more realistic combat. He said; “They
get penalty-rates according to the dangers
they incur in being heroes. For a 20ft.
leap backwards into water they get £25,
a 30ft. leap on to hard rock earns them
£3O, and falling down stairs on their necks
adds £l5 to £2O to their pay-envelopes.”
* * * *
“Macnell”; The hub of the hubbub
about foreign submarines off New Guinea
seems to lie in these facts, not mentioned
in the Press. The ex-naval officer con-
cerned claimed to have heard a sub-
marine about dusk and to have seen it in
the moonlight—more than two years ago.
His report was investigated at the time by
naval authorities, who decided he had
been mistaken. The other aspect con-
cerns international law of the sea. Even
if a fleet of foreign submarines cruised
down to New Guinea, so long as they re-
mained three miles off-shore—on the high
seas—no action could be taken against
their presence.
■* * * *
“T.McN.”: Things do get around. It
must be 20 years since 1 read in The
Bulletin that a cove dropped into the
pub in Eurelia (South Australia) and
asked, “This Urellya?” Somebody
answered, “You’re a liar,” and somebody
else said, “You really are,” and that’s
how the fight started. On Sunday, Sep-
tember 7 last, in my Sydney “Sunday
Sun,” I learned, per favor of “ ‘Fact’s’
New York News Bureau,” that
People of Eurelia, Montana, argue about
the pronunciation of the town’s, name.
Strangers arriving by train are puzzled
when they hear the conductor call out,
“You’re a liar! You’re a liar!” They are
more puzzled when the porters reply, “You
really are! You really are!”
The gazetteer of the Encyclopedia Brit-
annica (published in America) lists the
South Australian Eurelia only. Now
hooselia?
* * * *
“O’Coilleann”; When Dr. D. J.
O’Higgins, ship’s M.O. of the liner West-
ralia, with the help of two other medicoes
from among the passengers, performed
an appendicitis operation during stormy
weather in the Bight, a Perth daily took
the trouble to mention that he was an
Irishman. At first sight, that would seem
an unnecessary emphasis on the obvious,
but you can’t always tell. Kelly is a
Manx name as well as an Irish one, and
I once knew a Presbyterian minister
named Patrick O'Reilly. Ireland’s
troubled history has planted the seeds of
race in many foreign lands. A Mac-
Mahon was once a Marshal, and later
President, of France. A namesake of Dr.
O’Higgins, born in South America, played
a prominent part in the liberation of
Chile, and Irish names have cropped up
recently in connection with the stormy
politics of the Argentine. My greatest
surprise in this line came between the
world wars, when I went on board a
Japanese vessel in Fremantle. I was
told the master of the ship was a Captain
O’Hara. He was, too —a suave little Nip,
who spelt his name without the apos-
trophe. He told me that Ohara is just as
common a name in Japan as O’Hara in
Ireland.
* * * *
“Croid”: An inspection of Sydney’s
statuary makes one realise how unfor-
tunate for posterity it is that so many of
our famous statesmen lived in the stove-
pipe trousers era —how much better they
would look with a neat crease down the
front —creases that would stay in better,
too, than in real pants. Kneebreeches, as
worn by bronze replicas of Captain Cook,
Flinders, Governor Bourke and Albert
the Good, are more artistic, although I’ve
miomn
“ Thirty-eight-inch chest, ready-to-wear.”
grave doubts that these men really had
the shapely calves with which the
sculptors have endowed them. Trousers
may be a great invention, but they are
death to Art.
* * * *
“Helldud”: The most pathetic and
unusual firelighters of my experience were
Sydney Domain “dossers” of the late
’nineties. As a Public Works apprentice
I used to see them morning and evening
on my way to and from work. Around
5 p.m. a score or more of them would
congregate at a sheltered spot under the
tress behind Sydney Hospital. Each
carried an outsize bundle of papers and
a pocketful of string. Feet and legs would
be wrapped in four layers of paper
secured by bowyangs at ankle, knee and
hip. As boots had a nasty habit of walk-
ing away during the night they were
never removed. The torso was protected
from the cold by laying a carpet of papers
on the ground, the dosser lying on one
end of it and enveloping himself by roll-
ing over and over. When the sleepers
were aroused by the cop at 6.45 a.m. the
shedding of the paper bedclothes
presented a strange sight. When com-
pletely unwrapped each dosser would
throw his most ragged papers on a central
heap, roll the remainder into a bundle
and tie them up for future use before
taking his position in the circle around
the heap. When all were in position the
cop would pull out his matches and light
the heap. As the bonfire burned the
unfortunate dossers would slowly turn
back, front and sides to the blaze, then,
as the fire petered out, each with a
friendly farewell to the cop, would pick
up his bedroll and shuffle away to his
daytime haunts.
* * * *
“Tom”: A department of juvenile
fiction that has been even more neglected
by Australian authors than the adventure-
yarn (B. 20/8/’52) is the school-story.
For at least a century this form has been
popular with British writers for boys.
Indeed, leading novelists —Hugh Walpole,
Rudyard Kipling, H. A. Vachell and
P. G. Wodehouse among others—have
successfully tried their hand at it. Some
pioneer exponents, notably Talbot Baines
Reed, still sell briskly in Australia as well
as in England. This country has schools
which should be just as suitable as English
public schools as settings for this kind
of yarn, yet scarcely any such books
seem to have been written by Australians.
The only Australian school stories for
boys I can recall are two or three by
Lilian M. Pyke (about Melbourne G.P.S.
life), Kookaburra Jack, by F. Argyll
Saxby (also about a Melbourne G.P.S.)
and Dogsnose, by J. H. M. Abbott. This
last is not primarily a school yarn, but
there are a few opening scenes at a small
boarding-school on the outskirts of
Sydney.
* * * ♦
“Mark O’Polo”; For the most part
chemists have their greatness thrust upon
them. In a Westralian mining town a
mother rushed into the chemist’s shop
with a boyful of kerosene. The chemist
leapt to the phone, called a taxi and did
what he could until it came. He then
ordered the pair up to the doctor at the
hospital at the greatest possible speed.
The woman potested, saying “But can’t
you make him all right, Mr. Pills?” And
it was not until Pills stood to the phone
again threatening to fetch the policeman
that she went. He said to me later “They
think I’m better than the doctor. As a
chemist my reputation is higher than it
would be if I were a qualified physician.”
He paused, then continued “It would
stand even higher if 1 were a deregistered
doctor, or, better still, a ‘failed’ doctor
who once studied for the profession but
didn’t qualify.”
* * * *
“K.R.”; N.S.W. Transport Minister
Sheahan’s discovery and ordered sup-
pression of the making, with Government
materials and in Government time, of
“foreign orders” recalls that a similar
racket flourished in New Guinea opera-
tional areas in the last war. Both Army
and Air Force units made all sorts of
trinkets, usually for sale to the Yanks.
In some units men with technical facilities
seemed on occasion to spend more time
on such business than on their legitimate
duties. One racket was the filing-down
and re-engraving of two-bob bits, then
strung together as a bracelet. Another
was the making of brooches, etc., from
the perspex out of planes. In one unit
to which I belonged, those not associated
with the pursuit were regarded as dull and
Tacking in drive. All of which recalls the
paraphrase of the usual report when a
plane was lost in action but its crew was
rescued: “One of our planes is missing,
but all its perspex was saved.”
* * * *
“Becks”: That Poster King who used
to dash off full-sized posters at lightning
speed on the beach-front at St. Kilda
(B. 10/9/’52) isn’t altogether a thing of
the past. He, or one of his successors,
was in action at last year’s Sydney Show.
Operating outside the Hordern pavilion,
he attracted big audiences all day and
every day. There were no free samples
of whisky, though—not even a cake of
soap—which is not surprising in these
commercial days when the once-free
sample bags are eagerly snapped up at
two- and three-bob a time.
# * * •
“Nakhoda”: The iron curtain that has
descended round the Montebello group on
Australia’s nor’-west coast seems to have
excluded from mention one interesting
fact—Hermite, one of the islands of the
desolate group, was the first Australian
soil ever trodden by English feet. In
1622, six years after Dirk Hartog, in the
Eendragt, of Amsterdam, had nailed his
tin-plate to a post on an island in Shark’s
Bay. the English ship Trial, running from
the Cape to Batavia, struck a reef there.
Forty-six of her complement of 143
made the island in the ship’s longboat and
pinnace. They subsequently reached
Java, but nothing was ever heard of
the rest of the crew.
“FOREIGN ORDERS.”
“N. S. Wales Minister for Transport, Mr. Sheahan,
has threatened to dismiss employees found making
‘foreign orders’—goods of all kinds made during
the department’s time, with departmental materials
on departmental machines, for personal use or private
sale.”
He wanted more production,
Didn’t he, this bloke Sheahan?
And then he raised a ruction
When it came into beahan.
In Government employment
We worked like men and brothers
On goods for our enjoyment
Or else to sell to others:
Knives, forks, spoons, engrossed us,
Lounge-suites, radiators,
Cigarette-lighters, toasters,
And perambulators.
We charged no double-time;
We halved costs, so to speak:
Is doing two jobs a crime
In a forty-hour week?
We bought no tin, wood, screws,
For that would be unsound;
We merely made good use
Of what was lying round.
But Sheahan says, stiff-necked,
“No more, men; I insist!”
•Still, what can you expect
Of a narrow Socialist
Who hasn’t got the gumption
To know what virtue lies
In adding to consumption
By private enterprise?
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Dabenc”: An illustration of how the
meaning of a common English word
may vary in different parts of Australia
was given when the report of a witness
at the N.S.W. liquor commission having
bought a cottage for something between
three and five thousand pounds caused
raised eyebrows in Adelaide. In South
Australia a cottage is either a very small
house in the hills or a slightly superior
weekend shack. The publication in the
“Advertiser” of a photo of the discussed
property solved the problem the
dwelling in question would be known as
a house in Adelaide. “Call that a cot-
tage?” snorted Mr. Subbubs on the tram.
“At that rate 1 live in a pigsty.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: In Wellington (N.Z.) the
other day, when the clerk of the court
asked an accused man whether he wished
to be tried by the magistrate or would
elect to appear before a judge and jury
at the Supreme Court, the bloke in the
dock jerked his head towards the Beak
and said “By that fellow up there.”
* * * *
“Cunedda”: A statement by a witness
in the Cowra (N.S.W.) inquest into the
death of a young man from suspected
poisoning, that the deceased could barely
sign his name, surprised me. He was in
the early twenties, was apparently intelli-
gent, and lived in a well-populated country
district, and there has been compulsory
education in N.S.W. for many years past.
Another news-item, a few days later,
was a bigger surprise. A British Army
educational authority was reported as
saying that 80 per cent, of men called up
for national service in Britain were edu-
cationally backward, and 18 per cent,
were illiterate. Primary education has
been compulsory in Britain since the
1870’s, and in the past 30 years a vast
sum of public money has been spent on
education. Yet if the authority was cor-
rectly reported the illiterate rate is almost
one in five of young men called to the
colors.
* * * #
“Bo”: Ironical that women, who could
effect economies through the swift
changes in their fashions, seemingly
have no desire to do so, while men, who
would willingly grasp such an oppor-
tunity, never have it offered them, thanks
to their unchanging sartorial scheme of
things. Take, for instance, the woman
who has bought a dress with puffed
sleeves and a wide skirt. She wears it
only a few times when Pierre Balmain or
some other tie-silk tyrant in Paris decides
that puffed sleeves, etc., shall be out, and
orders women to wear slim skirts and
narrow sleeves. With that sturdy inde-
pendence which equality of the sexes
has gained her she immediately buys a
slim-skirted, narrow-sleeved dress. The
puffed-sleeved one by then holding the
same interest for her as yesterday
afternoon’s paper, she either wears
it to cook in or cuts it up for
dusters. No thought to the prac-
tical certainty that a few months
later, or a year or so at the most,
the fashion wheel will turn full circle and
the puffed-sleeved, full-skirted frock will
again be a. la mode. No putting it in
mothballs against that day. Now, if a
man were to be offered such fashion
changes he, with nis sounder economic
sense, would make them pay dividends.
But though at the moment we are
frustrated, there is hope. I am starting
a pressure-group to put the heat on manu-
facturers to bring out a mirror-finish
navy suiting, and I invite co-operation
from all who, like myself, will benefit.
If successful, tiie navy suit whose glinting
in the sun now proclaims its vintage
may again be worn with the easy confi-
dence which proclaims the man of
fashion,
* * * *
“Quilliam-street”: Adelaide Royal
Show is in full swing and the usual side-
shows are swinging with it. There’s the
“American Quarter Boy,” who appar-
ently has no body below his fifth or sixth
ribs but “plays all the latest popular
American tunes on his electric steel
guitar” ; there’s the “girl in the iron lung”
—possibly a direct descendant of the Man
in the Iron Mask. In the “Pit of
Wonders” are offered a dusky gentleman
doing the Indian rope-trick, “never be-
fore seen in Adelaide,” and “The Head-
less Lady,” of whom the advertisement
asks “How can she live?” I don’t know
the answer, but I am intrigued by the
further line which tells me that these two
wonders are “direct from • the Sydney
Royal Show.” Sydney Show finished
about six months ago. If those two came
direct they must have used a pretty slow
means of locomotion. Perhaps they’ve
been looking for the lady’s head.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: On February 9 hundreds
of very bright objects, with luminous tails
streaming behind them, passed over
Canada, heading in a south-easterly
direction. They were grouped into
formations, nearly 40 in the largest
and three in the smallest. Subsequently,
shipping in the Atlantic also sighted the
glowing objects in the sky ; they were last
seen north of Bermuda. No panic fol-
lowed, except that one religious-minded
person arrived home to say that he had
seen a “long procession of souls going
to heaven.” Why didn’t the occurrence
cause an outbreak of “flying-saucer”
stories? Well, the event occurred on Feb.
9, 1913, and when sober astronomers re-
ported next day that a “procession of
slow meteors” had passed across the sky,
to fall into the ocean near Bermuda, and
that these celestial visitors were probably
“debris of a comet which had disinte-
grated,” everyone believed them.
* * * *
“Ack-Ack”: That seeming immunity
against molten lead (B. 10/9/’52) may
have a simple explanation. I once saw
a stage show in which a “magician”
wheeled on a barrow-load of lead ingots,
topped by an iron cauldron. Then,
placing the cauldron over a gas-flame,
he threw in the ingots with resounding
clunks. After they had melted he ladled
out some of the liquid fire and poured it
on to the upturned eyes of a thoroughly-
trussed victim. The reaction of the
audience can well be imagined. Popular
opinion plumped for some mysterious
ointment, but here’s the more likely
explanation. If an alloy composed of
50 parts of bismuth, 27 of lead, 13 of tin
and 10 of cadmium is melted, and then
81.9 parts of this liquid is mixed with
18.1 parts of indium, it will produce an
alloy with a melting-point of about 116
degrees Fahrenheit, which is not very
much above blood-heat. Assume this
alloy was used for the trick; the ingots.
previously refrigerated, would take an
appreciable time to melt; dry-ice could
be used to supply clouds of steam and
vapor.
“Millicent”: I’ve never tried the
molten-lead experiment (B. 10/9/’52),
but have had a parallel experience several
hundred degrees down the heat-scale. It
is known that you can burn your hand
just as well on an excessively cold piece
of iron as on an excessively hot one, but
liquid air is so cold that when it is
poured into the palm of the hand it
behaves in exactly the same way as water
dropped on to a red-hot stove —it breaks
up into little spherical droplets which
buzz frantically around until they
evaporate. The tissue is protected by a
badly-conducting layer of air between
skin and liquid which prevents the
sudden destructive heat-transfer.
* * * *
“Villefair”: The revelation that the
roof timbers in the burnt-out Wilson Hall
at Melbourne Uni. were “Canadian
Oregon” instead of the reputed English
oak (B. 20/8/’52) shook me a little—
but not because of the shattered legend.
“Spring!"
I would wager a trifle that, in the days
when the hall was built, Oregon pine came
from Oregon State —and that’s in U.S.A.
Nowadays, of course, Oregon can come
from all parts of North America and still
be the same timber. The same could not
be said of Tasmanian oak during the
tough early 1930’5. Then many an N.S.W.
stringybark became a piece of Tassie oak
furniture. Hence the yarn about the
furniture salesman who was charged by
an irate woman: “You told me that suite
was oak, and now I find out that it’s only
stringybark.” The salesman’s suave
reply: “Merely a misunderstanding,
madam ; I said in the current idiom:
‘This suite is oke, madam.’ ”
* * ¥ *
“Castlereagh”: There are several ver-
sions of “The Wild Colonial Boy” (B.
20/8/’52). One is printed in Australian
Bush Songs and Ballads edited by Will
Lawson, the other is to be found in
Green and Silver by L. T. C. Roll, a
book descriptive of a motor-boat tour
of the central Irish canal system. Rolt
heard “The Wild Colonial Boy” sung at
a canalside pub, and was told it was an
Irish folksong. After some searching
he managed to get a printed copy. There
are sundry differences between the two
versions. In the Lawson collection the
hero is named Jack Dowling, “born at
Castlemaine.” There is no mention of
his country of origin, but most readers
would be inclined to assume Castlemaine,
Victoria, was intended. Rolfs hero is
stated to have been born at Castlemaine,
Ireland, and to have gone to Australia
as a youth. He is named Jack Duggan.
Lawson’s Wild Colonial Boy holds up
the Beechworth mail-coach, robs Judge
McEvoy and lectures him on showing
humanity towards those he tries. Roll’s
stabs James McEvoy, no mention being
made of a mail-coach hold-up. LawsOfi’s
“Boy” robs “the lordly squatters,” Rolfs
“the lordly squires.” In each case the
Wild Colonial Boy meets his fate at the
hands of troopers” Kelly, Davis and
Fitzroy. Which of the two is the earlier
version I have no idea. Incidentally, does
anyone know an old Australian folk-
song “The Australian Brothers”? I’ve
never encountered it, but have recently
found it mentioned in a book on the
Shetland Islands.
* * * *
“Unga”: Report of an Australian Rules
match in the Adelaide hills persuades me
that footballers are the hardiest —or the
craziest—of all athletes. The match was
played in a fog so thick that at times
the goal umpires had to shout so that the
scorers and players who did not happen
to be near the goals would know someone
had scored. There was no mention of a
bell being attached to the ball, or that
fog-sirens were sounded from the goal-
posts, so how the players knew when the
ball was approaching or in what direction
to kick if it did come their way, I can’t
attempt to explain.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: I’ve been wearing glasses
from get-up to go-to-bed every day for
the past five or six years. The other day
I broke the frame and had to wait several
hours for the repair. I could see quite
well to get about, but was unable to read,
write, compute, examine and so on, so
spent the waiting-time in walking about
Sydney seeing people and making calls.
It was then I discovered how charged the
city air is with fine dust-particles, and,
in strong wind-currents, with grit. My
eyes, so long protected by glasses, had
apparently lost some of their natural pro-
tection and I collected enough to have
me red-eyed and sore by the time I got the
specs back. I’m now working on an idea
for a light windscreen for those who
aren’t protected by specs.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”; While the liquor royal-
commissioner, Mr. Justice Maxwell, is in
Europe studying drinking conditions I
recommend him to visit Paris and stroll
along the leafy boulevards any evening
and see the miles of chairs set out on the
pavements under awnings, the thousands
of people sitting talking, arguing and
sipping their aperitifs with almost a's
many waiters as customers whizzing
around. Then he could go to any park
or garden and see the cafes wide open at
all hours, with a band or a symphony
orchestra playing somewhere, to the open-
ing of a salon —a gallery surrounded by
wine cafes —or a football-match or a race-
meeting, where there are just the same
terrible facilities for drinking. Next he
could go into the French countryside and
see the same thing repeated in miniature
in the smallest town or village, with food
and wine just as good and as plentiful as
in Paris. If he sees more than one drunk
he’ll beat me. I saw only one —my taxi-
driver, who stalled his decrepit bus in
front of the Place de L'Opera. The
gendarmes pushed it over to the sidewalk,
but omitted to take his number. But if
as a result of what he sees his Honor
recommends the introduction of such a
system to Australia, he must be prepared
to be branded an immoral scoundrel.
* * * *
“M'Lou”: It is rather hard to imagine
saveloy-and-roll inspiring an international
racket, yet it, or its super “hot-dog”
cousin, the Mexican tamale, has hit the
headlines in that role. When Texas
health authorities banned the tamale
because of the meat it contained, tamales
were illicitly brought over the border by
an international smuggling ring which has
just been smashed by U.S.A. Customs
authorities.
VOCAL DANCING.
“Dancing is one of the most natural forms of
self-expression.” —Melbourne “Argus.”
The outsize caveman in his bearskin wrapped
Who sternly tapped . ,
With club tne noddle of the long-haired
mate
He’d just selected,
Aware by sound psychology that such
A he-man’s touch
Would let her know that he, of man s estate,
Must be respected,
Would in his lighter moments whirl her round,
Well oh the ground; , .
The “light fantastic” he would fiercely trip
In many a session.
No doubt she found the going pretty tough,
For he was rough.
He gave his ego, by his step and grip,
A full expression.
Since then the art terpsichorean has,
Right up to jazz . . . x .
And samba, shown a man in his true light.
Brightly reflected
Will be his outlook by the way he’ll twirl
And slide his girl.
His pith and core, his very nature might
Be thus dissected.
Yet self-expression, in the dancing test,
Is seen at best
Not where by wailing saxophone and drum
Rhythm is hashed up,
But in the home when Dad, trying to assail
The well-cursed nail
Held injudiciously, getteth his thumb
Severely mashed up.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
"THE LETTERS OF RACHEL HENNING."
The Letters of Rachel Henning
were written to relatives by Rachel
Henning, an intellectual, adventurous
young Englishwoman, between 1853
and 1882, and represent a fascinat-
ing, authentic and first - hand
record of Australian history. They
have a gossipy charm and provoca-
tiveness that bring back the atmos-
phere of the past with a freshness that
nothing in our literary or published
historical records has previously done.
The Letters of Rachel Henning
are now on sale in book form.
They are' illustrated with over
40 superb pen-drawings by Norman
Lindsay, supplemented by maps and
other relevant addenda.
The Letters of Rachel Henning
represent a book of about 110,000
words, well printed, with an attractive
illustrated manilla covtr. There is an
authoritative introduction and an
epilogue to the letters, as well as many
explanatory notes, all combining to
make the book a complete and satis-
fying factual story, unique in
Australian literature.
The Letters of Rachel Henning may be obtained at bookshops or at
“The Bulletin” offices in Brisbane, Melbourne or Sydney, or they will be sent
post-free to any address in Australia on receipt of seven shillings and sixpence
(7s. 6d.) by :
The Book Department,
“THE BULLETIN,” BOX 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


The BEUATIFUL PATTERN
THIS is a tale from long ago,
of people removed a
hundred generations and
more from the people who
know today. Yet in this place of
which the tale is told, where the
warm and living waters surge
quietly up the sloping white sand
amongst the women preparing
their green bananas for the
cooking-pots, lapping the piles of
the houses on the high flood and
baring the coral niggerheads on
the ebb, there is little changed.
Hoada the fisherman still keeps
his canoe by the palms where
the creek runs down from the
hills, and Aru his wife daily
sweeps the sand which is the
garden of her home. The village,
which has been a thousand
villages in its materials and in its
workmanship, is still the same
village, and the canoes and the
houses and the cooking-pots are
still the same. Even the broom
with which Am sweeps the sand
clear of the litter of her pigs and
her hens is still the same broom,
fashioned from the dead flower
of the dying sago-palm, and
bound precisely as was the
broom that rotted and fell to
pieces a hundred generations
ago.
Only Mala is no more. And
that is good, even though he was
so handsome, so strong, so light
in the skin, so debonair. For
men watching him hated him as
he strolled about jvith his air of
complete unconcern, flicking the
raindrops from his hair with his
two-pronged comb, spitting his
buoi contemptuously on the
ground, settling his dagger-
bracelet on his arm-muscles ; and
it is not good for men to hate.
Nor was it good for them that
the women should adore Mala ;
that the earth and the air and
the trees and the birds should
obey him ; that the lightness and
the dark should come at his
command.
And yet it is bad that there is
no more Mala, for he was mis-
chievous and loved a joke ; and
that is good for men. For he
was strong and handsome, and
that is an example for them.
And he was clever and a great
artist, and that is an inspiration
for ever. And it is sad that
there are no more demigods to
strut the earth and make men
sharpen their wits and flex their
muscles. Yet Mala is gone
indeed, and all that remains of
him is the beautiful pattern.
The pattern is gone now from
the arrowheads of Mala, and you
will search for it in vain amongst
the carvings df the great piles
which support the house tam-
baran. Yet in those islands
drowsy in the warm waters
below the Coral Sea it is never
forgotten, nor ever will be as
long as Mala is remembered, for
every woman carries it on her
body, tattooed lightly yet boldly
into the secrecy of the soft skin
between her thighs. So if you
would share the secret of the
pattern, you must share more
than the secret, gnd that is your
responsibility and your choice.
It is a very beautiful pattern.
The reason for the pattern is the
story of Mala and the fisher-
man’s wife, and this is that story.
ARU the wife of Hoada the
fisherman was sweeping the
sand about her house and carry-
ing away the rubbish on a taro-
leaf when an arrow glanced
from the trunk of a coconut
palm above her head and
dropped to the ground at her
feet. It was not an arrow such
as the hunters of the village used,
with a reed shaft and a head of
the tough limbom-palm. It was a
golden arrow, craftily fashioned,
lightly balanced and carved with
a beautiful pattern.
Aru picked up the arrow and
held it in her hands, and caught
her breath with the beauty of the
pattern. Then she climbed the
ladder of her house and hid the
arrow and returned swiftly to the
open clearing and picked up her
broom.
In a little while the bushes
parted and a man walked into
the clearing, a man of the hills
with a big chest and heavy
thighs, yet slim and evenly
muscled, and light-skinned and
handsome. He stood there for a
moment looking about him, fac-
ing the woman, but taking no
notice of her. Then he drew the
comb from his hair and dressed
his head with it. In that still,
warm clearing Aru could hear
the comb’s two teeth making
little noises as they flicked
through the thick, lime-bleached
hair, noises like the tiny clap of
two leaves of a palm-frond in
the wind, like a fraction of the
surge of the surf upon the sand.
The stranger combed his hair
and watched the woman. She
was still young and beautiful. It
was ten years since she had given
birth to her eldest son, but her
breasts were firm for a matron
and her skin was fresh and
golden. She wore a bright new
pul-pul, corn-yellow and smoky-
rose and brown and mud-grey
in a bold design of silky threads.
Across her back her father, when
she was young, had tattooed the
record of his voyagings, that her
husband might remember and
prove himself no less adven-
turous. Over her breasts and
deep below her armpits were
records of the heads he had
taken, that her own men might
prove as brave. The tattoo
patterns were light and graceful.
In her hair she wore a flower
of the wild hibiscus, and its
yellow delicacy enhanced the
strength of her straight-boned
features. She was good to. look
at, and the stranger put his comb
away and spat his buoi on the
sand, the betel-reddened saliva
streaking its whiteness. Then he
settled his dagger - bracelets
higher on his arm-muscles and
walked across to Aru. He said
“I am looking for my arrow,”
Am said nothing.
He said, more directly, “Have
you seen an arrow, I say?”
Am answered “No.”
Then the stranger walked very
close and put his mouth to her
ear and said “I am Mala,” and
Aru knew that he knew the
things that were in her mind.
She knew there was nothing she
could keep from Mala, for the
earth and the sea would open a
way for him. She knew that the
shinguards of bark which
ornamented his legs could carry
him swiftly as the day’s first
gleam of sunshine over the hills.
And she was beginning to know
that women were pliant as the
water when Mala looked at
them.
She said “Perhaps I could find
your arrow, but I would like to
keep the beautiful pattern,”
Mala answered “Give me the
arrow, afld you shall have' the
pattern for as long as you live.”
So Aru walked into the house
and took the arrow from the
morata thatch and gave it to
Mala. And Mala took her by a
forest path to a bend in the
creek at the back of the hill
behind the village. Here there
was a grassy patch, and here he
laid Am down, and took his
tattooing-needles made from the
bones of the flying-fox, and
tattooed the beautiful pattern.
And when the pattern was
completed he rubbed the wounds
with galpandot, the magic sap
of a shrub which tinctured the
wounds with the sea-blue which
is the most desirable for a skin-
tattoo, and then he wiped away
the blood with a taro leaf, and
this taro leaf he threw into the
water of the stream. Then he
stood back and looked at Aru,
the wife of Hoada the fisherman,
as she lay there on the ground,
and he combed his hair and he
spat his buoi and he joggled the
pas-pas bracelets on his arms.
NOW all this time Hoada the
fisherman and his two sons.
Arcs who was ten years old and
Tofilau who was two years
younger, had been fishing on the
reef. It was a good day, but the
fish were not biting. Neverthe-
less each of the three had had
some little luck and there were a
few glistening bodies lying on
the platform of the canoe, not
many, and not large. Towards
the close of the day Hoada saw,
not very far away from him, a
huge crowd of birds working the
water, wheeling and diving and
feeding on a mighty school of
little creatures that the big fish
on the bottom had scared up.
So Hoada and his sons quickly
lifted the stone anchor from its
niche in the reef, and hauled in
the long rope they had made
from the roots of the pandanus-
palm, and paddled quickly over
to the school, for it was not far
away, and there was no time to
set the sail. As soon as he had
paid out his line, Tofilau pulled a
fish, and Aros immediately after
him, but Hoada’s line lay slack
in the water. These fish were big
and they were feeding hungrily,
and Tofilau and Aros began to
pull them in as quickly as they
could handle them, but Hoada
had no luck. He changed his
baits and he weighted his
sinkers, and after a while he
took a new line, but the fish
would not touch his hook. Then
he tied a scrap of bark from the
tangent plant above the bone-
hook, but still his luck would not
change.
In the meanwhile the boys
were filling the canoe with their
fish. Very little room was left
in the canoe when Hoada at long
last felt a little movement on his
hook and pulled in his line. But
there was no fish there. Instead
there was a taro leaf, green and
fresh from the lily, and on the
taro leaf a smear of blood.
“What does this mean?” cried
Hoada. “\Vhy the leaf? And
why the blood? Is it bird’s
blood? Pig’s blood? Man’s
blood?” And then in a terrible
voice he cried “It is woman’s
blood. Pull up the anchor.”
And a breeze sprang up, and
with their canoe filled full of fish
they sailed for the village. When
they cleared the reef in the bay,
the boys would have sailed the
canoe on to the beach as usual,
but Hoada stopped them and
they dropped the anchor in four
feet of water, just past the rising
swell that surged gently from the
sloping beach. Hoada took the
conch-shell from the canoe and
called the village, and the people
came running down to the beach
to share in the miraculous
catch ; and when they saw the
canoe in the water they ran in
laughing and calling with the
children, and frolicking in the
surf, happy to get the good fish.
Am the wife of Hoada came
down to the beach, but stayed
short of the water, and Hoada
called to her to come and get the
fish. She shook her head. She
said she was wearing a new pul-
pul, and he could see that this
was so, for the skirt was very
bright and silky. But he called
to her just the same, and this
time his voice was threatening,
so that she came to the canoe.
But when she was wet nearly to
the hips a wave lifted the pul-pul
and Hoada saw the new tattoo
between her thighs.
Until that day such a thing
had not been seen in those
islands.
1 T happened that in this genera-
-1 tion of Hoada the fisherman
the village was preparing to erect
a new house tamharan, and the
elders of the village sent out invi-
tations to all the famous men
thereabouts to come, so that each
of them might carve a tree-trunk
to contribute to the building of
this big council house. The
tree-trunks were in the pulat, the
sacred village enclosure wherein
no woman might walk. When
a woman defied the ban —and
in every generation there was
one who did —she disappeared
from the face of the earth ; and
the women who lived accepted
the' inevitable and stayed away.
So that none of them knew of
the patterns which the tree-
trunks were taking in the pulat,
nor were they told the identity
of the carvers.
But an invitation had gone to
the luluai, and one to the luluai
of the village in the hills; one
to this man who was a great
fisherman, and one to a man
skilled in the building of canoes;
one to a sorcerer who could kill
with a look, and some to others
who were admired of the people.
And all these men worked in the
pulat, carving the great piles for
the men’s house. And one invi-
tation had gone to Mala, and he
carved more dexterously than all
the rest. As his pattern emerged
from the wood the men could
see that it was more beautiful
than the others, and Hoada the
fisherman knew where he had
seen its like.
For it was the pattern of the
golden arrow, and the pattern
that was the secret of Am his
wife.
So Hoada took the men of
the village into his confidence,
and they agreed upon a plan.
And when the carvings, after
many months, were ready and
the holes dug for the piles and
the building was begun, they
asked Mala to go into the hole
and direct the placing of the
pile. Mala agreed, but before he
climbed down into the hole he
went apart into the forest,
taking half a coconut-shell with
him.
He filled the half-coconut-
shell with the juice of the bena-
bena plant, which flows a bril-
liant red, and he covered it with
slats of dead bamboo, and he
placed it all on top of his skull
and carefully covered it with his
thick, luxuriant mop of hair.
Then he came back to the
clearing, looking insolently at the
others, and he flicked the comb
through his hair a couple of
times, and spat his betel-nut,
and joggled the pas-pas bracelets
on his arms until Hoada asked
politely whether he would kindly
step into the hole to direct the
placing of the timber. And at
that Mala climbed down into
the deep hole.
At this moment the men
standing by the hole let go the
timber, and it crashed down on
top of Mala. The men saw the
blood splash wide, and they
heard the crunch of bones, and
they held the pile upright and
filled in the hole truly with great
rejoicing, because a house tam-
baran set upon such a founda-
tion would bring many good
qualities to the initiates for
whose use it was built.
A MAN cannot leave a good
thing alone; and months
later Hoada the fisherman
walked to the village at the top
of the hill whence came Mala.
Perhaps Hoada went to jeer;
perhaps to clear up certain sus-
picions in his mind. When he
came to the village he met a
man by the track and asked him
“What of Mala?”
The man said “He is in his
house by the peak. He went by
here a little while ago, having
seen you come by the track, and
he was laughing. He’s waiting
for you by his house.”
When Hoada went a little
further into the village clearing
he saw that the man had not
lied. For Mala stood by the
doorway of his house flicking
the raindrops from his hair with
the prongs of his comb. And
as Hoada watched him put
away the comb and spat his
betel-nut and joggled the pas-pas
bracelets on his arms and
greeted him quite cordially.
Of this part of the story there
is no explanation except that the
blood which stained the post
carved with the beautiful pat-
tern was the brilliant red juice
of the bena-bena, and the
crunching of bones was the
breaking of bamboo strips, and
it is well known that Mala has
power over the earth to make it
open a way for him.
And perhaps it is not true
there is no more Mala. Perhaps
Mala is always and everywhere,
and some husbands have always
thought so. In those islands
lapped for ever by the warm
water the women believe that
while they carry the beautiful
pattern secretly on the soft skin
of their thighs some part of
Mala will never die.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
B.: You fill your stories with
correct details that take the eye ott
the main chance... .A.1.H.: The
father who killed his daughter’s
criminal fiance in order not to have
a murderer in the family seems not
to have given sufficient thought to
the matter N.R.: Young ladies
would be better occupied writing
about young ladies than about out-
back tough-guys shooting each other
with shotguns and wrestling to the
death with savage dogs L.H.:
Afraid your style of thing is not our
style of thing 8.R.T.: Liked your
vengeful boatman who strapped the
big-game fisherman inextricably into
the seat in the stem and then dived
overboard to be eaten by a shark,
but it might be putting ideas into
people’s heads... .J.A.: Afraid you
didn’t come by those fish in the sea,
but in an encyclopaedia M.A % ;
It’s a. good story, but you dont
tell it well enough V.M.C.: Your
Maoris are as authentic as a bar-
room shelf lined with display-bottles.
E.N.: We can always make space
for fish-and-chips, but not for long
essays on them M.W.: Can’t see
why your “Unprintable” should or
should not be printable... .D.N.: If
ybu lose a child in the bush these
days you must do it both differently
from and better than a thousand
highly-qualified writers before you.


■»Tr •
■■
I W >■, >. fr
iiii
fA
I ■
Usi
m
i :
jL. ' '
!
zs
)Z
: i
m
■
S 8
*»*
| *
I ' Ml
-^<7
*•
'CS f o
V*
mam. mm v- : yA
m
£*La
b-\
>-*
, * : * **■»■% , < # s? .<
■ .
i -;,
&
**s<
WHY WASTE IT? . . .
A farm o week instead of a farm a year
can be cleared by modern methods .
Rugged “International” Crawler Tractors
and matched equipment enable this
result to be achieved* Our urgent need is
for development of huge tracts of virgin
country tor Primary production and
absorption of new population. Only by
modern methods of land development
can we balance our overseas trade and
continue to settle new migrants so urgent
for Australia’s prosperity and
strength in the future.
Australia has a primary duty to the
people of the World to produce
# food in increasing quantities in a day when
food production is falling at an alarming
rate. Too much time has been lost already
but mighty machines will enable mighty
plans to be implemented and with
proper planning, food production, migration
and trade balances can be revolutionized.
Industrial Sales and Service are the
distributors in Australia for “International”
industrial crawler and wheel tractors with
matched equipment. Contact the ISAS
office in your State for full particulars
of the equipment that is being used
to speed our National Development,
rOsi
'A
C
THROUGHOUT RUSTROLIfI
[INDUSTRIAL SALES AMP SERVICE^
BRISBANE
Robinson Rd.,
Geebung.
SYDNEY
16 Parramatta Rd.,
Lidcombe.
MELBOURNE
Power Street,
South Melbourne.
/■ * •
ADELAIDE
Daws Road,
Cudmore Park.
PE
RTH
Belmont Avenue,
Belmont.
AUSTRALIAN
DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER
N333/IMI


ABORIGINALITIES
“Macquarie”: If in their annual grape-
snatchings around Mildura Mat and his
mate ever struck a stocky, brown-faced
little bloke with the bluest eyes, an accent
that belies his claim to be Swiss and sug-
gests he came from a Swede-German
cross and learnt English from a Cock-
ney, then they knew Alf. I’ve been work-
ing with him, and here’s how he saw
Mildura: “Mildoora nice place is, yah.
Gripe-pick nice yob, yah—clean yob. I
work for gripefarmer: dip gripe in hot
water, gripe split open ; pretty soon, two
week, free week—sultana, currant make.
Come Sunday gripefarmer tell me:
‘Come to church, yah? No harm to do.’
I go. Church inside there are much
peoples, but all ter wheatfarmer sit on
one side and all gripefarmer sit udder
side. I say: ‘Why not ter wheat-man
sit mitt ter gripe-man?’ My boss-chap
me tell: ‘Ter wheatfarmer he come here
to make ter pray for ter rain. Ter gripe-
man he pray for not rain. You come
mitt ter gripe-man to sit, yah.’ ”
* * * *
“Hamish”: If hawks have bad books
I’m in ’em. Fishing at Ballina (N.S.W.)
I happened to turn around just in time
to see a fish-hawk climbing up from the
beach behind me with a mullet clamped
in his talons. Naturally incensed at the
sight of my last bait being filched 1
dropped my rod and galloped after the
feathered pirate. A hot chase of 300
yards and a well-aimed stone (note to
“Wippegong” —aimed to scare, not to kill)
“Looks like the period o’ full employment is finished —thank ’ eaven ."
rewarded me with the dropped fish.
Triumphantly I bore it back and restored
it to its place—only to find my own
mullet still there! That hawk had been
unfortunate in that I happened to spot
him at the moment he was over my bait
and climbing, causing me to assume that
he’d purloined it from my gear. I guess
he’s still pondering on the craziness and
sheer hide of humans who’d pinch the
hard-earned catch out of a hawk’s beak.
Needless to say, justice ensured that my
ill-gotten bait didn’t catch me any fish,
although, in fairness to myself, 1 did keep
an eye open in case the hawk came
back, so that I could return his mullet
and salve my conscience.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We were sitting at a
crossroads out of Rochester (Vic.) when
a girl rode past on a bike. Girls on bikes
are common, only this one wore nothing
except short white shorts, a sleeveless
blouse and tennis shoes. We watched her
go by. We were still there ten minutes
later when she rode back again. Again
we watched her. She slowed down, looked
pertly at Mat and said, “Haven’t you ever
seen a girl’s legs before?” “Plenty,” Mat
snapped, “but it’s a long time since we
seen a green bike.”
♦ * ♦ •
“J.E.8.”: Auer Tumi, a Mombare
native, was promoted to No. 1 office-boy,
Iwara,. the No. 2 office-boy, registered
jealousy. Iwara comes from the Buna
district, where “pointing the bone” and
black-magic are quite a native profession.
One night Tumi came to me looking
terror-stricken. He told me Iwara was
going to “magic” his kai-kai. Later he
would die and Iwara would then become
No. 1 office-boy. Next morning I held
“court.” Tumi made his charge ; Iwara
denied it. Tersely I informed iwara that
from then onward he was responsible for
Tumi’s longevity. Should No. I’s demise
come sudden and nastily, then Iwara
would go before the Big Judge Taubada
at Moresby, who would undoubtedly
order that Iwara walk along nothing aided
by a rope looped neatly around his neck.
After that Iwara lived in panic. Tumi,
however, capitalised on Iwara’s guardian-
ship. He shelved half his lawful duties
on Iwara, helped himself to sturdy
portions of Iwara’s rice and anything else
he fancied. When the Buna boy pro-
tested, Tumi always became suddenly ill
and complained that his head went Walk-
about, and “belly b’long him kick ’urn
backside.” This never failed to panic
Iwara, who hastily urged Tumi to rest
“ ’long bunk’us.” When Iwara’s contract
of service expired I remarked to Tumi
that he need no long be frightened of
Iwara’s “black-magic” Tumi merely
said: “Me no fright long Buna boys’
magic.” “No?” I replied. “Well, you
were scared stiff enough the night you
came to me.” Tumi’s smile was deep as
the ocean. “Iwara,” he said, “he talk-
talk he catch ’um No. 1 job long office.
Me tink plenty strong. Me talk magic
humbug long you. Me no fright. Iwara
he catch ’um plenty work. Me catch ’um
plenty kai-kai, plenty walkabout, plenty
stop long bunk’us. Iwara no can do
magic long Mombare boy. Iwara no can
do magic long puss-puss cat!”
* * * ♦
“Maras”: Can’t say exactly how long
ants can live under water (B. 10/9/’52),
but there are records of their surviving
floods of two or three weeks’ duration.
The tough little fellow has a remarkable
resistance to adverse conditions. For
instance, both female and worker ants
can go without food for the greater part
of a year (ants thus are able to withstand
severe droughts). Again, a scientific
investigator once froze for 24 hours some
females, workers and unhatched eggs.
They were then gradually thawed out, and
all survived. Even the frozen eggs, larv®
and pupae subsequently developed quite
normally. That ants can endure long
submergence has been noted in other parts
of the world. Just what quality gives
them this tenacious hold on life has not
been discovered, as far as 1 know, but it
would seem to be worth finding out, and
used, if possible, for mankind’s benefit.
* * * *
“Fairf”: Ever since our town could
claim a name it has had but one pub,
in spite of the hundredfold increase in
population. But last year the glad tid-
ings rang out for the thirsty: we were to
have another hotel. Then a fresh sensa-
tion —we were getting yet another! Much
signing of petitions drawn up by pussy-
foots—and, it was ninted, rival factions.
“Your stars say to beware of a violent accident happening to you today."
Three months ago, however, the joyous
cry echoed: “They’ve started the new
pub!” Alas, Jupiter Pluvius came in on
the side of the antagonists. Progress was
retarded. Two months later the joy-
bells rang again: “They’ve begun the
second one!” A strong betting-ring
swung into operation on the result of
the race. Strangely, the lale-starter is
favorite by a small margin. Certain
wiseacres wink knowingly and hint
about a time-limit on the builder of
Number Two with a penalty clause of
£5O per day. On the other hand, a weary
laborer from Number One who wailed
over his beer that he had never been
worked so hard in his life caused the
betting to harden two points. Some
sure-thing bettors are backing one pub
because they know a couple of fellows
working on it; others are stacking their
dough on the opposition because they
know the same blokes. When the brick-
work starts in earnest the brickie who
skites of the fabulous number he
chucked in during the day is sure to be
feted and honored—by one faction ; the
other camp will almost certainly fill him
with grog, also—with the sinister object
of slowing him up on the morrow. All
true sportsmen are hoping for a blotto
finish.
* * ♦ ♦
“Edx”: Not only do they grow them
big and tall in the West (B. 3/9/’52), but
tough and strong to match. King karri,
while far and away the tallest Australian
tree, is by no means the strongest, having
only a tensile strength of just over eight
tons per square inch, or about three times
that of English oak. It is thus not so
strong as marri, commonly called red-
gum in W.A. Timber-getters used to take
the hickory shafts out of their carts and
substitute marri because of its superior
strength and elasticity. Karri wears well
out of the ground, as its extensive use
for railway rolling-stock scantling shows.
The W.A. Government uses tuart and
wandoo for the top-wearing planks and
side-posts in its trucks, because in these
positions they outwear steel. Getting out
into the lower-rainfall areas towards the
goldfields, salmon-gum and its equally
tough, freakish little mate, gimlet, begin
to obscure the horizon. Salmon-gum only
reaches 100 ft. in its best areas, and is the
second-strongest timber in Australia. A
stronger eucalypt grows back in the
higher-rainfall areas between Mt. Barker
and Busselton. It is called yate, and its
tensile strength is listed as 11 tons per
square inch, based on tests in which one
specimen piece failed under the fantastic
stress of 174 tons per square inch—three-
quarters of the ultimate usually called for
in wrought-iron.
jjC # ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Not all of W.A.'s
salt-lakes defy an explanation of their
salinity. Many of those nearer the coast
are thought to have been impregnated
with “cyclic” salt—that is, salt that has
been whisked up as salt spray from the
sea and blown inland. Such salt would
accumulate where there was insufficient
rainfall to disperse it. This sounds reason-
able when you consider the amount of
spray that would be created by heavy
storms, and the millions of years that this
has been going on ; but one of the lakes
thought to be thus affected is Lake
Monger, which is about 100 to 150 miles
inland, and that seems a long way for
wind to carry salt spray. By the same
token I’ll accept it as fact. Harvesting at
Mukinbudin, I often smelt the sea in the
westerly that sometimes drifted across the
sunbaked plains. And Muka is about 200
miles from the sea.
* * * *
“Emjai”: Poking around the barn I
came on a nest of kittens, all with their
tails lopped off. “Aw,” old Bob answered
my query, “that’s jest to make ’em good
rattin’ cats.” “But what have bobtails got
to do with ratting?” I asked. “Well,” he
drawled, “it’s like this. The old tom that I
reckon’s the father of them kittens is the
best rattin’ cat that we’ve ever had, and
he ain’t got any tail.” “A Manx, is he?”
I asked. “Naw, ’e ain’t a Manx,” replied
Bob. “Jest kind of lorst ’is tail when ’e
was a youngster. Wouldn’t be surprised
if old Blue here had bit it off. Did y’
ever watch a cat settin’ a rat?” “Yes, I’ve
seen ’em,” I replied; “all tensed to
spring.” “Yair, that’s right,” he said.
“Stiffened up, like and still, all except the
tip of the tail, an’ that keeps on wavin’
jest a little, like that” (wobbling the first
joint of his finger). “The rat sees that, and
when the cat springs he ain’t there. An’
there’s no way of stoppin’ that tip of his
tail from wavin’ except choppin’ it orf,
see?”
* * * ♦
“Upagum”: “H.C.B.’s” old prospector
may have been an authority on gold-
bearing reefs (B. 3/9/’52), but he was
astray when he stated that “most of the
main ranges of mountains throughout the
world run north and south.” Start at the
western borders of Spain and trace the
mountain masses by way of the Alps, the
Balkans, Asia Minor, the Caucasus, the
Elburz Mountains, the Hindu Kush and
the Himalayas and you’ve roughly 7000
miles of mountain running an irregular
east-west line. Add the Atlas and its out-
runners from Morocco to Tunis and the
total makes an impressive exception to
the suggested rule. But perhaps the old
prospector haled from the “Golden
Americas.” There the mountains do seem
to run as he suggests. And is the earth's
motion mainly responsible for such
north-south run of mountains as exists?
Wouldn’t an east-west run offer less
resistance.!
THE RAIN-MAN.
One day a storm came with a billowing cloud,
The lightning was fierce, the thunder was loud.
“Lightning him cheeky,” old Kumb'erduk said,
“One-feller hit and him knock-em we dead.”
“Him knock-em tree easy,” his wife gave reply,
Pointing to flashes that split through the sky.
I fastened the drain-pipe, tested the door,
And standing outside 1 heard the loud roar
Of doughty old Kumberduk —singer of rain—
Out in the forefront, his face all a-strain,
Mud-daubed for victory—the top of his form —
Shouting and waving to fling back the storm.
I slam down my shutters, fasten the door,
But louder than all is Kumberduk’s roar;
Bushes in hand he is beating the ground,
Voice growing weak ’midst the din all around.
“Him properly clever,” his wife said to me,
“Him chasem the rain from all-about we.”
As she was speaking there came a bright flash
That burst a tree open to fall with a crash
And over the uproar as splintering it fell
Loud and more loud did old Kumberduk yell.
His wife began crying, cutting her head,
“Poor-feller my man, must be him dead.”
Then out of the dust, behind him the rain,
Old Kumberduk sped, I heard him complain:
“ ’Nother-one rain-man him beat me,” he said,
And down fell the rain on old Kumberduk’s
bead.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


“F.G.S.”: Brought up in a seafaring
family and taught as a youngster to check
the rig of any sailing vessels passing
through Port Phillip Heads, by reference
to a wall-chart of all sailing rigs, 1 am
always intrigued when the pearling and
beche-de-mer craft of the Torres Straits
and Darwin area are termed “luggers.”
They are always so styled, yet every
picture I have ever seen of them has
shown them to be ketches, or schooners
with an occasional cutter.rig. How come?
* * * *
“Old-timer”; In Euston (N.S.W.) long
ago we were invaded by one Gunboat
Hansen, who absorbed a gallon or so of
Dutch courage and loudly declared his
intention of demolishing Shorty McClure,
a noted dust scrapper of those parts.
Gunboat was duly held back by the mob
in Medley’s bar and talked into not seek-
ing Shorty, who of course was nowhere
in the vicinity at the time. A couple of
days later, Gunboat having vanished in
the direction of Balranald, Tom Taylor
ran into Shorty at the Minduk tank and
said “Cripes, just as well y’ wasn’t in
town the other day. That Gunboat bloke
was there lookin’ f’r y’.” Shorty eyed
him. “It was all right, though,” Tom
assured him. “Squeaker an’ Bandy
Walters got hold of him an’ calmed him
down.” “Where’s Gunboat now?” asked
Shorty. “Dunno.” On the following
Saturday Shorty rode into town, irrigated,
sought out Squeaker and said “This'll teach
y’t’ mind y’r own ruddy business.” He’d
just knocked S. for a sixer when Bandy
rounded the corner and promptly received
his dose. Shorty surveyed the ruins, re-
marked acidly, “Next time y’ met Gun-
boat share that with him,” and went in
for another drink.
* * * *
“Greasy Joan”: Not only southern
native races placed great value on the
skull-contents of dead warriors (B.
27/8/’52). In ancient Ireland the
brain-ball was a powerful weapon
of war. The brains of a par-
ticularly noble foe or of an adversary
killed in single combat were mixed with
lime and allowed to harden, and this
“brain-ball” was fired out of a sling.
King Conor Mac Nessa, who reigned at
Emania in the time of Christ, was struck
in battle by a brain-ball, which lodged in
his forehead. His medical attendant
advised against removing it, and he wore
it about for seven years, avoiding all
excitement which might cause it to be
“ Uranium? Never heard of the place."
dislodged. After the Crucifixion the king
was told of the Saviour’s death and,
carried away by his anger at such injus-
tice, rushed out into the forest in such a
frenzy that the brain-ball fell out of his
forehead and he died immediately.
* * * *
“Bill C.”: The zamia-palm doesn’t
represent any great danger to cattle
because they rarely eat enough of it (B.
2/7/’52). The queer-branching palm
and its habitual companion the grass-
tree (blackboy in W.A.) are the first
things to show green growth after the
grassfires which occur every spring in
the heavy grass country of C.Q. Cattle
and horses often feed on the young shoots
of the grass-tree, and are none the worse.
They also nibble at the zamia, but 1 have
never known j t to kill even one animal.
Butchers claim, however, that the eating
of zamia is injurious to cattle ; it snows
j n shrivelling and discoloration of the
spinal-cord in slaughtered beasts. I refer
s r ‘ a r , lt>n -. irmn
only to zamia fronds, since fallen za
nuts are quickly fatal to pigs and poultry.
* * * *
Clem Lack: Jackey-Jackey, or pre-
fcrably Galmahra, his native name (B.
3/9/’52), had too good a sense of direc-
tion to be really “bushed.” His sense
of topography was so good that in 1849
he led a search-party from the brig
Freak to the spot where Kennedy was
killed, and the explorer’s compass, with
the trough and horizontal glass of a
sextant and a wooden bottle of quick-
silver, were found. Not far away the
native had hidden the roll of charts and
memorandum books, and he was able
to guide the party unerringly to the
spot. The sextant itself was discovered
by a lubra later and is now in
the Brisbane Museum. Kennedy made
an error in his calculations. When he
made his dash for Cape York he thought
he was at Pudding Pan Hill, marked on
the Admiralty charts by Captain Bligh.
Pudding Pan Hill was only 60 miles from
Cape York, and Kennedy believed that
he could reach the Ariel in i week, thus
enabling the rescue of all his men, includ-
ing Dunn, Luff and Costigan and the men
at Camp 80. In actual fact, Pudding Pan
Hill was 50 miles further north, so that,
instead of being 60 miles, Kennedy was
110 miles from Cape York. When the
Ariel reached Pudding Pan there was of
course no sign of the three men. Dunn,
Luff and Costigan were never found,
* * * *
“Gulliver”: Once watched a couple of
Afghans breaking-in a young camel. The
rest .of the team, all yoked, fanned out
in th’ree squatting lines from the shatters,
The youngster, in winkers, was led into
the centre of the middle row and, with
much “hooshing” and shin-kicking, in-
duced to kneel. On went the collar, the
camel roared, plunged and stood up—
and 50 did every one of ttye other twenty-
odd. Round went the ’Ghans and
“hooshed” them all down again ; they
put the hames on the young-’un, who
roared, heaved, and again brought every
other hump to his feet. More general
“hooshta” ensued, and when the junior
dromedary again sprang up he had the
spider on—the last item. The ’Ghans
then closed the ranks, started ’em up, and
the youngster had his choice of walking,
pulling, or hanging back and being
dragged along whether he liked it or not.
He tried the lot, and all the time his
mates roared at him, jostled him and bit
his rump. He learned the hard way.
Camels are like that. Once, pushing
a team along to get to a well before
dark, we came to a spot where they’d
camped months before. Immediately
the leaders swung off the road, and
when we belted them back again
every single camel turned sulky, roar-
ing with disappointment and pulling
with the worst possible grace; they obvi-
ously felt they’d done a day’s stage, and
weren’t doing any more except under
duress. They’re temperamental, all
right. They’ll pull all day when the
wagon sticks, provided they can shift it
an inch or so each time, but if they can’t
feel it move they’ll quit, and. the only
thing to do is turn them loose for that
day Soon you acquire the same delicate
aroma as the oonts, and that’s just when
you get the best out of them ; they regard
you as “one of us,” so to speak, and it’s
held unwise to change your shirt and
upset your odoriferous playmates’
olfactory senses with the smell of soap,
One of the special joys of camel-driving
is to dodge a ferociously-snapped mouth-
ful of long, dripping, yellow-green fangs
or to become the repository of a mess
of half-digested, regurgitated breakfast on
the front of your shirt. A bull-camel
can go mad in the winter and chase you
all over the landscape with murder glar-
ing from his headlights.
* * * *
“The Missus”: Quite agree with
“H.G.L.” (B. 13/8/’52) that abos use
“Your job's next, mate —just toasting a sandwich."
telepathy. Was holidaying on a station
at Julia Creek (Q.) when the station gins
announced “Mrs. Blank and two
daughters bin come here Tuesday.” My
hostess began confidently to plan for the
visitors, and when I laughed assured me
that the station blacks often forewarned
her of such arrivals. She said they relayed
news from station to station by no visible
signal, and the only way she could explain
it was to conclude they did it by some
method of thought-transference. The
Brown party arrived as expected. They
had been 150 miles away when we first
heard of their coming—I asked them,
« * * •?
“Anniv”: Charles Ledger (B.
20/8/’52) was not the first to import
llamas, alpacas, or vicunas into the con-
tinent. In 1856 the 'Victorian Govern-
ment asked Queen Victoria, without
success, to present that colony with
some of her flock, but next year
Titus Salt, of Bradford, who had
pioneered the alpaca industry in England,
sent four of his flock to his nephew in
South Australia and sent another five to
the same State in 1857. Further ship-
ments went to Moreton Bay (Q.) in 1858
and to Victoria in 1859 (the year Ledger’s
consignment arrived), and in 1863 another
shipment (the first and only consignment
of 1500 beasts ordered from South
America) was,added to those brought to
N.S.W. by Ledger. To say that only one
of the animals was born in this country
and that all were dead from disease
within a few months is a misstatement.
By 1861 the N.S.W. flock had grown to
417 and the Victorian 33 had increased to
45. The biggest blow to alpaca hopes
came when the 1862-63 drought killed off
200 of the N.S.W. Government flock. The
remainder were then distributed among
landholders, scab broke out among the
animals, the climate did not suit them,
and this and the fact that, while they ate
more per beast than did Merinos, the
hair was less valuable than was wool,
led to the herds being allowed to die out.
Incidentally, it is exactly a century since
Ledger visited Australia and made his
first plans for importing alpacas, llamas
and vicunas. J. H. Haigh, of Port Lin-
coln, the owner of the first of the animals
to arrive, is said to have also been the first
man in Australia to own and breed
angora goats. The climate on Eyre’s
Peninsula was too hot for each of the
breeds, and he soon sold his llamas to
Sir Thomas Elder and his angoras to
Price Maurice.
* ♦ * *
“Kelms”: Forty-odd miles south of
Fremantle, Mandurah sits on the mouth
of Peel Inlet, which in turn leads into the
Harvey Estuary. This takes the Indian
Ocean about 16 miles in a general
southerly direction parallel with the coast
and only a few miles inland. From there
a chain of lakes takes over. Two of
them, Clifton and Preston, separated by
only a couple of miles, are each about
12 miles long; and the lower tip of
Preston is only a few miles from
Leschenault estuary, which enters the
ocean at Bunbury. Some of the country
inland from the lakes is drained into
them, and almost worthless land was
thus transformed into some of the most
productive in the south-west. Now some
local-government bodies think the
drainage would be better, and could be
extended, if those lakes and estuaries
were connected. This would create a
branch of the sea from Mandurah to
Bunbury, with a corresponding island
which in places would be only a mile
or so wide. It wouldn’t be more than a
few miles wide at any point. I don’t
know how this would affect drainage, but
what a wonderful sporting locality it
would make. Mandurah and Bunbury
are both good fishing-spots, and pre-
sumably the estuary connecting them
would be equally attractive to the fish ;
and it would have the additional advan-
tage of being sheltered. Also the lakes
are haunted by wild ducks of all types,
and there are plenty of ’roos. It seems
the perfect set-up ; and, looking at the
map, it’s easy to imagine that that’s the
way nature intended it to be. And maybe
it was that way a few million years ago,
* * * *
“B.”: Pete had picked up Smithy, and
was giving him a lift to town. When
they hit the highway and the car speed
rose from 30 to 40, then 50, the conversa-
tion from the back seat dwindled and
stopped. Presently Pete became aware
of a face over his shoulder watching the
speedo anxiously, and he stepped on the
accelerator; “Should make town in good
time, Smithy,” he remarked. “Eh? Er—
y-yair.” A glimpse of Smithy’s hand
clutching desperately at the seat was too
much for Pete, and the speedo-needle
rose still higher. “Seems' to be hanging
out, so far!” Pete remarked. There was
no response from behind, and after
another mile or two Pete tried again.
“Wonder how she’s going now!” he said.
“How w-what’s g-goin’, Pete?” came
from behind his ear. “Aw, just that loose
piece I shoved in under the big hole in
the tyre.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Had borrowed a neighbor’s
fox-terrier, and, following me to work
the first morning, the dog was spotted by
an old ewe that had mislaid her lamb.
Never having seen a dog that size and
color, the mistaken ewe started in pursuit,
her bawling disturbing other ewes into a
reminder of roaming offspring, so that
presently the embarrassed foxie was lead-
ing a string of determined jumbucks
across the paddock. He increased his
pace, eyed me and his pursuers in turn,
and was making for the safety of a big
log when a rabbit jumped up. The long-
eared bloke turned back towards the
main flock, with the dog and his eager
string flat-out behind. Down the paddock
they went, around a patch of fallen
timber, through a bunch of tussock, then
the rabbit disappeared into a burrow,
and the foxie, aware once more of his
following, doubled urgently towards me.
it was then the voice from the roadway
reached me, and I recognised old Buff
returning from a bender. “Sheep!” came
the awed voice, as the figure left the sup-
port of a fence-post to stare at the
burrow. “Sh-sheep, tha’s what they wash
awri’. C-cripes, an’ I called Sandy a liar
jus’ f’r seein’ a red-an’-black snake
chasin’tadpoles 1”
MARSHLAND.
The great bird drifts to land
And folds his wings like furling sails,
Leaving the wide fields of sky,
Marked with the paths of distant gales.
The’ bent grass is burned to gold,
Pale gold upon the plains and hills,
But here in this hollow marsh a green
Oasis breathes of damp, and spills
A cool dream upon the air,
The parching grass, the burning sand;
And where the reeds and rushes grow
The great bird drifts to land.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
lill
H
ms,
mm
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOD!
Ig| More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look, Bill’s
a credit to his Company. Your shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive : —the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked
men to try it , . . 81% reported “Beards easier to
cut” ... 76% said “Less razor pull” ... 71% said
“Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK i BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
gd
BANKERS
pM/jai
The shaving cream
of successful men
EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWVERS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE FRIGHTFUL BOMBS.
Basing “no : war” prophecies
largely on the West’s lead in
atom-bomb and hydrogen-bomb
developments, which lead
“should be capable of indefinite
improvement,” a London “Time
and Tide” writer gives some
h.-bomb facts “as well-known to
the Russians as to our own
scientist#^’:
The hydrogen-bomb differs
from the atom-bomb in three
respects. First, the size of the
atom-bomb is, for technical
reasons, strictly limited. That of
the hydrogen-bomb is unlimited.
Second, the destructive force
of the hydrogen-bomb is much
greater. A standard atom-bomb
can destroy by blast an area of
10 square miles. The hydrogen-
bomb can destroy 300 square
miles. By fire and burns the
atom-bomb can destroy an area
of four square miles above what
is destroyed by blast. The h.-
bomb can destroy by fire and
burns no less than 1200 square
miles in addition to the 300
destroyed by blast.
Third, “though this will sound
incredible,” {he h.-bomb is much
cheaper to produce.
Also, apart from blast, burns
and fire, there is an aspect of the
h.-bomb about which not much
is generally known —its radio-
active aspect. By surrounding
the h.-bomb with a casing of
cobalt, ,the bomb on exploding
would release as much radio-
activity as 2400 tons of radium.
Radioactivity thus generated
would last for years. Cobalt
loses half its radioactivity every
five years. So after five years
the radioactivity of the 2400
tons would be 1200 tons, after
10 years 600 tons and so on.
This radioactive cloud would
kill all life in the area which it
“blankets,” and the winds would
carry its effects for perhaps
thousands of miles. Professor
Szilard has estimated the
neutrons of 400 tons of heavy
hydrogen could kill everything
on earth.
In short, “We are reaching
the stage when the world must
either be good or perish.”
How true that is may be at
least partly realised from figures
given out by E. C. Allen, prin-
ciple scientific adviser to the
British Home Office, in connec-
tion with a recent atom-bomb
“exercise” confined to a restricted
area in London.
Allowing for the evacuation
of priority classes beforehand, he
said, the population in the
affected area at the time of the
explosion would be about
115,000, and, with warning of
the attack, about 16,000 would
be killed or trapped, and 3000
injured.
Some 18,000 houses would be
destroyed or put beyond repair,
20.000 would be seriously
damaged and 50,000 less seriously
damaged, while between 100,000
and 150,000 houses over a wide
area would have broken ceilings,
roofs and tiles.
It was estimated that some
200.000 people would take to the
streets, many of them because of
fright and not because they were
homeless.
In the central area there would
be a ring of fire about three-
quarters of a mile wide, with
streets obliterated beneath a sea
of uniform debris of from five
to eight feet high.
These findings, frightful
enough in themselves, have to
do, as stated, with limited bomb-
ing. But U.S. atom-bomb expert
Hal B. Hayes points out that
bombing will be on the “pattern”
principle.
“That,” he explained, “would
mean that a large number of
bombs would be used against a
city. While people in the cities
bombed in Japan were able to
escape by walking out into the
country, people trying to get
away now would only walk into
the neighboring danger area.”
Lilywhite West.
Commenting that the Western
Powers have only themselves to
blame for Trieste being now a
nasty headache, “New York
Times” makes a sweeping sum of
their sins:
“They pledged themselves in
the Atlantic Charter to under-
take no territorial changes that
did not accord with the freely
expressed wishes of the peoples
concerned, but they have failed
to keep this pledge in every in-
stance in which it might have
been applied, including Trieste.
“They have not themselves ex-
pelled or exterminated popula-
tions to fit new borders, but they
have bartered territories right
and left in the interest of power
politics, and they now reap the
fruit thereof,”
Down, But Not Out.
Though both Britain and
France have been badly
hammered in the past 40 years,
have bled and suffered and seen
the accumulated wealth of
San Francisco “Chronicle."
PLENTY COOKIN’.
generations squandered in great
wars, both, in London “Daily
Mail’s” view, still have plenty
left:
“France is self-supporting.
She has a gold hoard next in size
to that of the United States,
hidden in the long stockings of
her thrifty peasants. She is also
the second' colonial Power.
“Britain is still a mighty in-
dustrial and trading nation with
interests everywhere. She is the
centre of a world-wide Empire
and Commonwealth commanding
almost infinite potential wealth.
“These are firm foundations
upon which both could build
anew and recapture the impulses
which, in successive centuries,
gave light and leading to all man-
kind. This could be done in
spite of the rearmament burden.”
Israel at the Double.
An Edinburgh “Scotsman”
special correspondent lists some
results of the attempt in Israel
“to compress into a single genera-
tion’s life-span all the develop-
ments which in other countries
took centuries”:
“Almost everything has been
doubled in Israel during the last
four years—the number of trees
planted, the number of villages,
of kilometres of roads, of houses
and apartments, and, above all,
the number of inhabitants.
“The area under irrigation has
been doubled, the area planted
with vegetables and fodder has
trebled ; traffic in Haifa Port has
increased five times ; the number
of farm-tractors has multiplied
six times.
“During this period the
national income grew from
150,000,000 to 440,000,000 Israel
pounds; the Jewish State’s
merchant fleet jumped from nil
before 1948 to 34 ships with a
tonnage of 12,000 today; the
number of housing units newly
built for immigrants reached
75,000; and nearly 750,000 new
immigrants joined the 650,000
old settlers in the gigantic ex-
periment of grafting twentieth-
century civilisation on to this
area of age-old neglect.”
Yes, in effect says London
“Economist,” but Israel is also
deeply in the “inflation crisis” ;
indeed “Israel’s crisis is worse
than Britain’s has ever been, be-
cause a young and poor country
has much less room for economic
manoeuvre than an older
economy. Abroad, its balahce-
of-payments position has been
kept stable by expedients that
range from borrowing to begging.
At home, it is suffering an in-
flation that is perilously near to
getting beyond control.”
London “Spectator” sees
Israel as now being “at the part-
ing of the ways”: “What is
happening is the death of the
old-style Zionism, and the emer-
gence of Israel. Zionism was a
faith, and could sustain itself
by faith ; Israel is a State, and
can only sustain itself by the
humdrum* methods available to
all other States —by a balanced
trade and a stable currency.”
Alas, Poor U.N.O.
“The really melancholy fact
from the viewpoint of the United
Nations,” comments “New York
Times’s” U.N.O. correspondent,
“is that the world is now looking
to N.A.T.O. and to the mutual
defence treaties between the
United States and Australia, New
Zealand, the Philippines and
Japan for effective defence
against any new Communist
aggression.”
Editorially, however, the paper
itself comments: “Despite handi-
caps and failures, the United
Nations performs essential func-
tions which could not be per-
formed otherwise except on a
piecemeal and chaotic basis
Those who would abandon it will
have to propose a better way
before they can hope to carry
the day.”
Still, that’s a little short of
flattery, too.
Dragnet Digest.
Guns Before Ideas. —Expert
on Europe, Michael Padev, in
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Opponents of Western rearma-
ment often argue that ‘you can-
not fight ideas with guns.’ But
Communist ‘ideas,’ as such, have
never won any battle anywhere
on earth. Communist guns have
won plenty.”
The Unforgivable Sins.
Final word on the Red Dean,
from a peer in the House of
Lords: “He has not been drunk
in the pulpit, he has not pawned
the church vessels,” So every-
thing’s jake.
Out of the Whirlwind.
London “Time and Tide” views
the Middle East: “Persia’s plight
is melancholy, Egypt’s almost
equally so; and both are filled
with foreboding for the rest of
the world. In both countries
the politicians have used the
mobs for years ; now the mobs
are driving the politicians. A
whirlwind of violence is on the
move and who can tell where or
what its end will be?”
New Isolationists. —Formerly
isolationism was identified with
the U.S., an American political
article of faith. Now, reports
a “New York Times” correspon-
dent, “The big job of American
diplomacy is to overcome isola-
tionist tendencies in the nations
on whose co-operation its own
security depends.”
Cure for Communism.—Pre-
scription. (rather drastic) from
“New York Times”: “The best
cure for Communism has proved
to be the experience of it.”
Uncle Christmas. —Compari-
son by “U.S. News and World
Report”: “U.S. annually gives
its friends about 13 times what
Soviet Russia sells them.”
If Republicans Win. —A com-
mon notion is that U.S. general
policy won’t alter much no
matter who wins the Presiden-
tial race. “U.S. News and
World Report,” however, states:
“As businessmen abroad see it,
a Republican President will
mean that U.S. tariffs may go
up, not be reduced ; trade agree-
ments which permitted tariff cuts
may be modified; Congress may
tighten its control over tariffs;
gifts from the U.S. will prob-
ably shrink, gradually dry up
altogether,”
Garden of Eden Reopening.
■—lrak is to net over £40,000,000
a year for its oil. “It means,”
says London “Spectator,” “that
Mesopotamia, which was for
5000 years the keystone of the
Middle Eastern structure, is to
rise again. The Mongols trans-
formed this fertile land ‘between
the rivers’ into (in the words of
Sir Mark Sykes) ‘a place of
mounds and sherds, a waste of
unfruitful waters intersecting
plains of dust and scrub.’ Now,
after a lapse of 500 years, oil-
royalties and modem engineer-
ing techniques are to reconstruct,
on a bigger and better scale, that
system of irrigation which
Hulagu so wantonly destroyed
The Garden of Eden is to bloom
once more.”
Population Cure. —Two-thirds
of the human race, reports
“Manchester Guardian,” are
creating every year an extra
population of 23,000,000 people.
This is happening in areas such
as India, the Middle East and
South-east Asia where standards
of living are already very low
—in some cases desperately low.
“Experience shows that only a
steep rise in the standard of
living is likely to check the
ascending curve of population.
Everest Climbers. London
“Times” reports record that in
the latest attempts on Everest
two groups that got close to the
top were both robbed of com-
plete success wholly by the
curious reactions of the human
body to the rarefied atmosphere.
There was definite mental
deterioration, a man being liable
to make decisions that would be
out of the question in normal
circumstances. Judgment i s
blunted; there is a “misleading
feeling of well-being which dis-
torts a man’s perceptions.” The
climbers are, in fact, “under the
influence” —on nothing b u 1
atmosphere!
Hope. From the British
Labor party’s statement on
foreign policy: “If Britain and
her allies continue their efforts
they may soon expect to find
the Soviet Union ready to
negotiate a settlement. A 1
international agreement on dis-
armament will then, we hope, be
achieved.” On which, “Man-
chester Guardian”: “Tbs
seems to imply a more favorable
view of Russian intentions than
many would venture to accept
but there is no harm in hop-
ing.”


“World
Destruction”
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?”
Braille literature also available
for the blind.
The Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49*51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
EIEY-KYNOGH
SPORTING AMMUNITION
1C
&
@1
THE HARE, belonging to the same rodent family
as the rabbit, is distinguished by his long ears and
hind legs and his divided upper lip. To the land-
owner he is, like the rabbit, a destructive pest.
When out shooting, help to control this nuisance
and always use ELEY-KYNOCH shotgun cartridges
they’re hardhitting and one hundred per cent
reliable.
d&mm
a t ■
«SS
«*«•
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
' 1 ' " 1 i AM.7X. 1647-
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS TUCK late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM ARTHUR
TUCK has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1478 of 1952 against you on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards if
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
24th November 1952 and you may obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from HAROLD RICH, Solicitor, of 188
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY THELMA GRACE LEA-
MORE late of Beresfleld near Maitland.
—TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT EDWIN
EEDGATE LEAMORE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2194 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
21st November 1952 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. A. P. BERNE & DOUGLAS
MURRAY, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
of 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH ROYAL KINGSLEY BROOKS
late of Narrabri in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that JEAN
ELIZABETH BROOKS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4297 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 17th
day of November 1952 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from R. W.
FRASER & PARKINSON. Solicitors, 51
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MAVIS BEAN O/o High School
Tefnora.— I TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA
JOSEPHINE FINNIGAN has filed a Peti-
tion No. 4214 of 1951 praying for a
Divorce from JAMES FINNIGAN on the
ground of his adultery with you You
may apply to the Court to be allowed to
defend You may obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOSEPH
P. SHARAH & COMPANY, Solicitors, of
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar. •
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM FREDERICK JOHNSON
late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY CONSTANCE JOHNSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce in Suit No. 1791
of 1952 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and she is asking the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney on or before the 24th
November 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from N. V. MEN-
LOVE, Solicitor, 160 Oastlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GORDON LEWIS THOMPSON late of
Quakers HiII.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOYCE ELIZABETH THOMPSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3158 of
1952 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 21st day of November
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from HADDOCKS COHEN
& MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
fc
ris^
i
COM*
tica
SCIA
URff 5
0A 0°
111!
IUM
MS
::
WA
|OTtV*
DOCTORS
uutuu
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED BY
ID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in
America, Canada, England
and now in Australia. Dol-
cin Tablets igive prompt relief
from the painful symptoms
of Arthritis, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuritis, Fibrositis
and Lumbago. Prolonged
Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply
of blood and oxygen to the
affected tissues. Many thous-
ands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people
who had given up hope of
ever getting relief, are now
active again-—able to work
—thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLGIH is easy to take in
tablet form.
DOLGIH is obtainable from
your Chemist.
1/JZIA
ARTHRITIS
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
tOO TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Informative literature on 00/c/n
will be sent on request to 00/c/n
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Sox 1552,
GJ’.O., Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage.
Virgil, a magician, has spirited
the Kiwis out of Sydney Empire
and moved in with a fine array
of illusions and Chinese robes.
He can saw ’em in half, levitate
’em, shoot ribbons through ’em
and commit various other forms
of mayhem to the amazement
and consternation of the multi-
tude. And if he can’t answer
the old one about the chicken
and the egg, he at least gives a
convincing demonstration of
spiriting a live canary into a
sealed electric-light bulb. A
fetching offsider called Julie,
another with a phiz like Buster
Keaton and diversions with a
ballet give Mr. Virgil time for
an occasional breather between
appearances and disappearances.
* * * *
Kuringai Theatre Guild’s
current offering is a very spick-
and-span production (by Jock
Brown) of A. A. Milne’s “Sarah
Simple,” a lightly amusing trifle
about Mr. William Bendish’s in-
decision about taking up life
with the canon’s widow or re-
suming with his own wife, who
left him eight years earlier and
against whom his divorce pro-
ceedings failed disastrously be-
cause, her farewell note being so
badly written, he named the
wrong man as co-respondent.
The show is well-set and
-dressed; Brown’s production
is as light and uncluttered
as it should be; Douglas
McKellar, as William fiendish,
Norma Barker as his wife
and Beryl Barnes as the
canon’s widow each show an ex-
cellent appreciation of the
characters and comedy they are
handling; and Walter Hill as a
hotel waiter with a discerning
taste in thrillers, and Jocelyn
Harbutt and Peter Barclay as a
couple of intellectual adolescents,
make the most of their moments.
Altogether an admirable little
item comparing more than favor-
ably with some recent profes-
sional servings of light comedy.
* * * *
The Shavian Playhouse, Syd-
ney, is making its first departure
from Shaw with “Tartuffe,”
Moliere’s dissection of hypo-
crisy, gullibility and extremists
in one way or another. Keith
Smith’s production has style and
polish, despite a few rubs on it,
and, in the main, the comedy
comes over more effectively than
the point, which is no bad
thing. A sparkling performance
by Beverley MacDonald, as the
impudent little maid Dorina, is
quite the best thing in the show
—as lively and complete a bit
of acting as one might look for
anywhere. As Tartuffe, Neville
Thiele seems inclined to play his
hypocrisy and sanctimony with
too much underlining and too
many capital letters —an impres-
sion probably deriving from his
efforts to use his voice like a
wurlitzer so that Patrick
Bowley as his dupe, Orgon,
appears flat-out to make his
gullibility acceptable. Still, he
manages to do it with quite a
creditable performance. Sonia
Tyler, as Orgon’s wife, main-
tains a very nice style through-
out the piece, and Ken Han-
nam’s mannered polish could be
taken as a good example by
most of the cast.
“Alas, Poor Ghost,” a meta-
physical drama by Dale Collins,
the Australian author, put on by
the National Theatre, Mel-
bourne, has more thought and
observation in it, and is more
compactly written than two and
a half dozen contemporary
essays of the same sort. An
author, married to an attractive
leading actress who is attractive
to others besides her husband,
throws himself under a train be-
fore the curtain rises on this
play, and on one of his own in
which his wife is appearing. He
finds himself a ghost with
neither heaven nor hell to go to,
so sets out to investigate the
emotional states of the people he
left behind him. Ray Lawler
as the ghost was never tedious.
Lesley Gasking made his wife
live, and Veronica Nolan’s Irish
housemaid had the right touch.
Max Bruch was perfect as the
fat lover who couldn’t help
being possessive.
~** * *
“King John,” done by the Tin
Alley Players at Melbourne Uni-
versity, is, in the present com-
mentator’s view, one of the best
of Shakspeare’s tragedies and
the second-best of his historical
plays, and it is a wonder that it
is so seldom presented—never
before in Melbourne within
recollection. Louise Homfrey
gave a feeling portrayal of
Queen Elinor’s jealousies and
hatreds, and Mary Thomas gave
her grief full cry when she heard
of the death of Arthur. Yetta
Rothberg was excellent as
Blanche of Spain. Geoffrey
Bellmaine uttered the finest lines
in the play as the Bastard, and
James Inglis played King John
well. Myra Roper’s production
was a model for all Shakspearian
producers. She ran the first
three acts through without a
single curtain, thus enormously
adding to the excitement and
interest of the action,
* * * *
Edward Percy’s “The Shop at
Sly Corner,” while not quite up
to his evergreen “Ladies in Re-
tirement,” is still first-rate
theatre and a very satisfying
play from all points of view. It
concerns Descius Heiss, an
antique dealer and a receiver of
stolen goods, whose illegal activi-
ties result in his being black-
mailed by his shop assistant, in
his subsequent murdering of the
blackmailer and his eventual
suicide in the ironic climax of
the play. John Baldwin’s pro-
duction for Hobart Rep. was
meticulous and competent, with
no grave errors and no great
heights. John Moore’s Descius
Heiss was always convincing,
and, towards the end, wonder-
fully moving. He was capably
supported by Kenneth Gordon,
who, as the shop-assistant-cum-
blackmailer, would have been
excellent with a shade more
character, and by Hede Juer,'
who played the French Jewess,
Mathilde Heiss, with depth and
sincerity, and whose only fault
was a tendency to overflam-
boyant gesture, Wayth Henty,
H. Digby Pridmore, Alice
Burgess, James Ward and
Graham Murray gave good sup-
port.
* * * *
James Bridie’s “Daphne
Laureola” is a threadbare filing
describing the Jekyll and Hyde
existence of an English lady
who spends her evenings swil-
ling brandy in cafes and her
afternoons serving tea in her
garden. Brisbane Arts Theatre’s
production was enjoyable, how-
ever, mainly because of Daphne
Roemermann and Alfred Race,
who were most moving in the
close of the garden scene, the
former triumphing over the
earlier improbabilities of the
role to evoke genuine sympathy,
the latter making the old
man far more than a bundle of
odd mannerisms. Edmond
Bourke’s interpretation of the
devoted Pole needed broader
comedy treatment.
Music.
Whatever else he does,
Argentinian conductor Castro
makes his musical dishes excit-
ing. At the latest of his
“celebrity” concerts at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall he alternated
traditional fare like Haydn’s
Symphony No. 99, served
correctly dressed and quite
ungarnished, with exotic mixtures
like Honegger’s Concerto da
Camera and Berlioz’s Queen
Mab Scherzo. The former was
full of the interplay of light and
shadow, and the latter was a
strange intermixing and fading-
away of color, with two flam-
boyant appeals to the senses
from the flute and the cor
anglais, gloriously played by
Richard Chugg and David
Woolley. Dorothy Maynor
sang “Aise” from Ravel’s
“Scheherazade,” and an aria
from Massenet’s “Herodiade” in
her peculiarly personal way
which defies classification.
The remarkable things about
Dorothy Maynor are her focus,
the quality of her singing, the
depth and splendor of her sing-
ing of the classics, her ability to
range from dramatic to colora-
tura soprano and contralto and
even deeper, and her light-
hearted approach to modern
music.
♦ * ♦
Under Eugene Goosseps, the
Queensland State and Municipal
Choir and the Queensland Sym-
phony Orchestra realised both
the dramatic and spiritual quali-
ties of Elgar’s “Dream of
Gerontius” —no easy task with
a theme of death and trans-
figuration. Elgar provides no
choruses or solos on the
Handelian pattern. Rather he
concentrates on making a perfect
wedding of words and music so
that his oratorios flow on relent-
lessly in the manner of a pro-
found spiritual experience. “This
is the best of me,” he wrote.
Bass Norman Walker, obvi-
ously sharing that view, sang
with commanding authority the
parts of the Priest and the Angel
of Agony. Sydney contralto
Elizabeth Allen seemed a little
overawed by the conductor, and
lost in feeling what she gained
in accuracy. Towards the end
of the work, however, she used
her fine voice with dignity and
compassion. Tenor John Dudley,
as Gerontius, was always musi-
cianly in spite of some unhappy
intonation at the beginning, but,
like Miss Allen, achieved the full
beauty of the moving finale.
Art.
Percy Watson’s landscapes and
figures at the Peter Bray Gallery,
in Melbourne, look as heavily
manufactured as his abstract
paintings, and the blobs of crude
color look as if they came put
of a house-decorator’s paintpot.
“Farmer’s Family,” the largest
canvas, appears to have been
adzed out of gum-tree.


The only Trustee Company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UNION TRUSTEE uses "Local Knowledge"
to benefit Your Estate
THERE is one exclusive feature of Union Trustee
Company service that can be of direct benefit to your
estate. This is the “local knowledge” gained by having
offices in three capital cities. Each office has its individual
Board of Directors, each its own highly skilled staff of
experts. Thus, whether an estate has interests in more
than one State, or is concentrated in a single area, the
Company is ideally equipped to act as Executor, Trustee
or Attorney.
In appointing Union Trustee as your Executor you are
assured of continuity -of service—and charges are
exceedingly moderate for the services rendered.
A senior officer of the Company will gladly explain in
detail the wide variety of services it performs.
Call or write for your copy of the booklet, “Important
Facts” —which will be forwarded, post free.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
UTl2B>
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> £j £ £
1944.. 185,594 6£ p.c.= 175,500 10,094 1,235,154
1945.. 168,180 6 „ „ 162,000 6,180 1,241,334
1946.. 163,438 6 „ ~ 162,000 1,438 1,242,772
1947.. 215,439 7J „ ~202,500 12,939 1,255,711
To provident fund, £lO,OOO . . . . 1,245,711
1948.. 244,973 8 p.c. = 221,928 23,045 1,268,756
To provident fund, £20,419 ~ .. 1,248,337
1949.. 380,687 10 p.c. = 277,410 103,277 1,351,614
1960.. 641,367 12 „ „ 339,156 302,211 1,653,825
To provident fund, £25,000 .. 1,628,825
1951.. 727,362 15 p.c. = 423,945 303,417 1,932,242
To provident fund, £52,000 .. .. 1,880,242
1952.. 419,095 10 p.c. = 282,630 136,465 2,016,707
To provident fund, £25,000 .. .. 1,991,707
The descent of wool prices from their
dazzling and damaging peaks in 1951
was the main factor behind the contrac-
tion of £308,267 (46.5 p.c.) in last term’s
declared profit of this more-than-century-
old woolbroking, pastoral-finance, agency
and merchandising business. What hap-
pened is shown by the following figures
covering the entire Australian clip;
Bales Amount- Av. Price
Season. Sold. Realised. Per lb.*
1948- .. 3,241,616 194,589,170 48.07 d.
1949- . . 8,593,756 286,628,911 63.35 d.
1960-51 .. 3,547,195 636,330,574 144.19 d.
1951-52 .. 3,409,312 307,787,401 72.89 d.
* Greasy.
Last season the drop in volume was 3.8
p.c. and in value 51.6 p.c. Still, the
cheque was second-biggest in the history
of the trade. Two features of the damage
caused by the phenomenal size of the
1950- cheque are now evident in a
top-heavy wage-cost structure and
balance-of-payments crisis, and all the
problems to which they have given rise.
The next table shows the quantity of
wool and livestock auctioned by the co.,
which handles more of the staple in
South Australia and Westralia than any
other broker and is second on the list
in Victoria;—•
Wool, Bales. Sheep. Cattle. Pigs.
1949 .. 329,744 3,414,181 172,621 126.494
1950 .. 377,525 3,813,708 ,196,542 109,344
1951 .. 393,603 3,905,330 195,135 115,605
1952 .. 422,389 3,037,790 179,914 114,858
Last term’s turnover in the wool depart-
ment was £37,438,154, and in the live-
stock section £17,055,292, to which has
to be added a further £25,353,409 on
account of extensive merchandising activi-
ties and substantial, but pnstated,
amounts in respect of shipping and land
agency, timber and insurance transac-
tions. Returns from advances to clients
and from a big wad of Government and
other securities help to swell the pool,
too.
The fall in the year’s gross earnings
was steeper than the drop in exes., as
usually happens in the rebound from the
peak of a boom. After writing £128,176
(up £14,526) off premises and plant and
providing something for bad and doubtful
debts and other contingencies, especially
in connection with merchandise, the con-
traction in gross earnings was £609,769:
Exes. p.c.
Gross.* Exes.f Gross. Net.
1949 .. 1,868,025 1,487,338 79.6 380,687
1950 .. 2,614,020 1,972,653 75.4 641,367
1951 .. 3,884,562 3,157,200 81.3 727,362
1952 .. 3,274,793 2,855,698 87.2 419,095
• After providing for contingencies and depreciation
of premises and plant. f Includes provision for
taxation, etc.
Only about half the fall in the gross
figure was offset by the reduction in
exes, (down £301,502), which was due
entirely to a cut of £786,000 in the
allowance for taxation (£365,000). In-
cluding the contractual payment to the
provident fund (£28,497, up £4770), run-
ning costs (£2,490,698) increased by
£484,498, mainly as the result of recur-
rent wage-lifts, which also bumped up
the cost of transport and everything else.
The £419,095 of divisible profit that
remained was equal to 14.8 p.c. on
capital as against 25.7, 22.6, 13.7, 8.8,
7.9 and 6 p.c. back to 1946. The cautious
board lowered the distribution from 15
p.c. to 10 p.c., making an average of
11 p.c. for the last five years, compared
with an average of 6.6 p.c. for the pre-
ceding decade.
Strength, continued growth and a net
addition of £1,257,706 to merchandising
stocks are the features of balance-sheet
figures: —•
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £2,826,300 £2,826,300 £2,826,300
Deposits, etc. .. 741,474 824,469 692,542
Sundry cr’tors, etc. 6,824,579 13,708,393 15,257,186
Tax provision . . 499,523 1,190,250 455,509
Final div. . . 226,104 282,680 169,578
Freeholds, plant, etc. 1,768,913 2.006,172 2,303,947
Govt. sac. and cash 4,549,756 8,-080,657 7,517,474
Advances, etc. .. 4,714,964 8,206,082 7,872,865
Stocks . . . . 1,287,867 1,955,731 3,213,437
Shares other cos.. . 425,305 458,642 485,099
Stocks, high in relation to current needs,
hav§ been conservatively valued in the
books, and are likely to be substantially
reduced during the current term. The
accretion of £297,775 to fixed assets
mainly reflects additions to store accom-
modation, etc., on account of expanding
business. To meet the outlay, together
with a reduction of £131,927 in deposits,
etc., the amount coming to sundry
creditors was increased by £1,553,793,
and Government securities and cash were
reduced by £563,183 and advances by
£333,217. Still, including tax provision,
outsiders could see 9s. 2d. of every pound
coming to them in Government securities
and cash alone.
From the seasonal point of view the
current term has opened well, and early
indications are that wool prices will
average out not much, if anything, below
last, seasoffis very satisfactory levels.
Rising costs are the spectre at the feast.
During the year to June 30 last the
Federal basic wage (average all States)
rose by 60 p.c., despite a drop of 51.6
p.c. in the value of the wool clip. Taxa-
tion, too, remains a heavy burden. At
9s. in the £ the Government makes off
with all co. net earnings for 23 out
of every 52 weeks.
The market, which expects the 10 p.c.
div. to be maintained, prices the co.’s £1
shares paid to 12s. each at 245. 9d. (31s.
6d. a year ago) to return 4.8 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 20s. sd.
per share.
W. R. Carpenter & Co.
To Re— Re—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves; serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 65,873 5 p.c. = 38,750 27,123 381,916
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 356,916
1945.. 66,035 5 p.c. = 38,750 27,285 384,201
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 359,201
1946.. 67,726 5 p.c. = 38,750 28,976 388,177
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 363,177
Contingencies res. appears, £120,000.. 483,177
1947.. 71,043 7Jp.c.= 60,062 10,981 494,158
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 484,158
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 459,158
1948.. 75,655 9 p.c. = 69,750 5,905 465,063
1949.. 80,194 10 „ „ 77,500 2,694 467,757
1950.. 82,591 20 ~ „ 80,000 2,591 470,348
Revaluation of assets, £463,445 .. 933,793
Reserves capitalised, £425,000 .. 508,793
1951.. 102,887 20 p.c. = 81,250 21,637 530,430
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 520,430
From tax reserves, £42,194 .. .. 562,624
1952.. 139,013 15 p.c. = 127,500 11,513 574,137
This big island-trading organisation con-
sists of the parent holding co. and a
string of 17 subsidiaries engaged in ship-
ping, insurance and a wide range of
merchandising and other activities in an
area extending from New Guinea out
over the South Seas to Fiji, and to Van-
couver and London as well. For the
most part the curtain is kept drawn
over the figures of the offshoots, whose
profits are taken into the parent’s books
only to the extent of dividends received;
and the history of the business suggests
there has always been more wheat in the
ear than the eye could see.
Shareholders, who put up £473,330 of
fresh capital, which brought with it
£83,375 of share premiums, during the
six years to mid-1939, had half their
capital returned in 1948, and that with-
out impairing the earning-capacity of the
organisation. Then, in June, 1951, tne
total on the share register was doubled
by a one-for-one issue of bonus-scrip,
making paid capital £850,000 in f.-p. ss.
shares. The gift came from a reserve
of £463,445 created by writing up the
book-value of shares in subsidiaries by
a like amount. Though war interrupted
a flow of 10 p.c. divs., the co. s Fiji
interests kept the pot boiling, and a
steady 5 p.c. was paid for the five years
to 1946, followed by 7|, 9, 10, two lots
of 20 p.c. and then 15 p.c. last term.
The 15 p.c. is, of course, worth 30 p.c.
on capital as it stood before the gift
just referred to.
Trade activity in the islands is closely
linked with the state of commodity mar-
kets in Britain and the U.S., especially
in connection with the copra, timber,
sugar, banana and a number of minor
industries. Last term sugar and copra
taken by the British Government under
long-term contracts —and all other island
produce continued to fetch high prices.
The Carpenter organisation “functioned
very satisfactorily,” and earnings of the
various units were “favorable.” There
was a convenient spring of £36,126 in
the parent’s net earnings (£13.9,013), which
were £11,513 more than the 15 p.c. div.
called for. Visible reserves also benefited
by £42,149 previously overprovided for
taxation, lifting them to £574,137.
Here is the financial set-up so far as
the parent’s published accounts show it:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £775,000 £400.000 £849,997 £850,000
Sundry-
creditors .. 335,192 365,129 271,064 221,235
Tax provision 79,200 87,861 76,933 67,802
War damage cr. 85,480 85,480 92,100 85,480
Shipping, free-
holds, plant,
etc. . . 1.201 18,574 18,500 22,924
Investments .. 927,987 920,615 1,386,338 1,259,229
Stocks .. 51,548 42,167 55,809 77,731
Debtors. etc. 162,142 171,574 118,987 188,444
Cash, etc. . . 638,501 296,684 282,140 814,076
The amount coming to sundry creditors
includes £133,750 due to subsidiaries.
Investments consist of shares in sub-
sidiaries (£984,932, down £133,607) and
shares in affiliated and other cos.
(£274,297, up £6498). The growth of
£69,457 in debtors’ balances is mainly on
account of advances to subsidiaries
(£127,770, up £51,712). A feature which
catches the eye is that the board still
has plenty of ready cash, etc., with which
to take advantage of any opportunity
that might arise on account of cash pur-
chases or for further expansion of group
interests.
The sharemarket, which is prepared to
wait for its benefits —they are likely to
be much more widely spaced in the future
than in the past —prices the f.-p. ss.
shares at 165., as against 19s. each early
in 1952. On a 15 p.c. div. basis the return
at 16s. is 4.7 p.c., or little more than is
to be had from long-dated Government
securities. Visibly the cover is Bs. 4d.
in net tangibles.
Allen Taylor & Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
May, Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
1942.. 6,529 6 p.c. = 5,610 919 11,519
Surplus sale assets, £3OOO . . .. 14,519
1943.. 7,144 6 p.c. = 5,610 1,534 16,053
1944.. 8,735 7 „ „ 6,545 2,190 18,243
1945.. 9,691 8 „ „ 7,480 2,211 20,454
1946.. 10,916 8 „ „ 7,480 3,436 23,890
1947.. 9,253 8 „ „ 7,480 1,773 25,663
1948.. 10,449 8 „ „ 7,480 2,969 28,632
Share premiums, £7012 .. .. 35,644
1949.. 20,054 8 p.c. = 9,973 10,081 45,725
Share premiums, £10,631 .. .. 56,356
1950.. 20,481 8 p.c. = 10,812 9,669 66,025
Share premiums, £27,121 .. .. 93,146
1951.. 15,198 8 p.c. = 14,000 1,198 94,344
1952.. 25,085 8 „ „ 14,000 11,085 105,429
* Includes additions to reserves.
This old-established timber-merchant
enjoys strong connections in both local
and export markets, and also acts as
selling-agent for a number of other
millers. Its own mills are situated in good
forest areas on the N. S. Wales North
Coast; products from some of the stands
are shipped to- Sydney in the co.’s own
vessels, the balance being carried on the
Government railways. The level of turn-
over depends mainly upon activity in
the building trade, especially in the metro-
polis, where there has been sharp falling-
off in new construction toward and since
the close of last accounts.
Chief impediments to profits since war
ended have been shortages of labor and
transport, rising costs and controlled
selling-prices, except in the export field.
Last term the outlook on the demand
side cjianged, for reasons already
stated. However, over the full period
increased output and sales at higher prices
more than took care of the sharp rise in
costs. After allowing £16,281 (up £6436)
for depreciation and something for taxa-
tion, net earnings were £9887 stronger at
£25,085, equal to 14.3 p.c. on capital as
against 8.7, 15.1, 16.1, 11.1, 9.8 and 11.6
p.c. back to 1946. The div. was main-
tained at 8 p.c. for the eighth year in suc-
cession, making the average distribution
over the last 19 years 6.2 p.c.
A new sawmill at Coff’s Harbor, which
recently commenced cutting, and addi-
tions to other plants and timber stands,
added £50,330 to properties and plant,
while purchase of a shallow-draught
steamer to replace another unit of the
fleet, wrecked in September, 1951, sent
the book-value of vessels, etc., up by
£17,838:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £124,664 £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Overdraft . . 20,345 5,406 119,329 140,401
S’dry creditors 157,058 186,312 245,328 378,762
Final Divs. . . 4,987 5,825 7.000 7,000
Properties and
plant . . 72,051 141,088 153,065 203,395
Shares in subsid. 25,0 0 0 2 5,000 3 5,000 35,000
Vessels, etc... 5,821 5,551 5,483 23,321
Stocks .. 84,207 86,922 126,508 164,995
Book debts . . 148,662 158,047 299,904 367,536
Investments and
cash . . 17,137 21,960 21,041 12,343
The growths of £38,487 in stocks (said to
be conservatively valued) and of £67,632
in book-debts (they indude advances to
sawmillers) reflect the slackness of trade
and tightening of credit toward the close
of accounts.
Excluding £19,321 coming to sub-
sidiaries on current account, there was
35s Bd. belonging to the bank and sundry
creditors in .the business at May 31 last
for every £ of shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined). To ease the
position the board will presently put be-
fore shareholders “a proposition for the
introduction capital”—no hint is
given as to the nature of the proposal or
the amount involved. Last new issue
was 100,672 10s. shares at 17s. 6d. each
in January, 1950, the bulk of which was
taken by Timber Trade Mutual Insur-
ance, Ltd.
Although the position in respect
of supply and demand is now very
different from what it has been
over the last dozen years —sales
have dropped by about 20 p.c. since the
close of accounts —“there should be rea-
sonable activity in the trade,” the chair-
man says. Much will depend upon how
soon costs, mainly wages, can be reduced
sufficiently to meet the market, and upon
developments in connection with credit
and interest-rates.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the co.’s 10s. shares at 13s.
(18s. 6d. a year ago) to return 6.1 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis, plus any benefit that
might accrue from the board’s coming
proposal. Net tangible cover is 16s. a
share, nearly all in fixed assets.
T. C. Beime, Ltd. (Bris.)
Dividends —^
Pref. To Re- Be-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. —Ord. ■ N serves, serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
From tax reserve, £23,954 .. .. 157,85 S
1950. .101,678 18,500 8 46,880 36,298 194,186
Taxes paid, £4606 .. .. ■ • 189,580
From inner reserves, net, £27,304 .. 216,884
1951. .123,386 20,000 8 46,880 56,506 273,390
From inner reserves, net, £28,122 .. 301,512
195 2.. 49,5 7 3 20.00 0 7.9 4 6,294 284,701
This is one of Brisbane’s largest depart-
ment stores, with frontages to Bruns-
wick-, Ann- and Dunstan-streets in Forti-
tude Valley. The business was founded
in 1891 by T. C. Beirne, who came to
Australia from Ireland in the 1880’s and
remained at the head of the undertaking
until his death in April, 1949. A couple


Missing Friend.
WOULD THEOPHILUS BENNETT, also
known as “BEN” BENNETT, aged about
64 years, or anyone knowing of his
present whereabouts or decease, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Public Notice.
WE, ARNOLD ARTHUR HEIMBERG, of
Polish nationality, bom at Boryslaw,
Poland, and LIVIA LILLY HEIMBERG,
wife of above, born at Budapest, Hungary,
resident five years in Australia,- now resid-
ing at 147 Duncan Street, Maroubra, in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Telegraphic Address;
Oorrientes, Brisbane
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrle, Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Ihe requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936, of the State of New South Wales have not been fully complied with in this newspaper
advertisement of the full Prospectus, which is dated the First day of September, 1952, and a duly certified copy of which has been filed with the Registrar-General
of the said State.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1874, of the State of New South Wales, on the First day of July, 1887.)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
OF
£4,000,000 s°/ 0 Registered Mortgage Debentures
Redeemable on 30th September, 1962, or, at the option of the Company, upon at least six months’ prior notice of redemption having been given, on 30th
September, 1959, or any half-yearly interest date thereafter.
PAYABLE:
(a) in full on application.
or
(b) 25 per cent, on application.
25 per cent, on 31st December, 1952.
25 per cent, on 31st March, 1953.
25 per cent, on 30th June, 1953.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL;
1,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £2O each .. .. .. £20,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL:
585.000 Ordinary Shares of £2O each, fully paid .. .. £11,700,000
117.000 Ordinary Shares of £2O each, paid up to £l3/6/8
a share .. .. £1,560,000
Balance of £6/13/4 a share payable 30th Sep-
tember, 1952 .. .. .. .. .. . • £780,000
SHARES HELD IN RESERVE:
398.000 Ordinary Shares of £2O each .. £5,960,000
1,000,000 £20,000,000
BANKERS POR THE ISSUE:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OP SYDNEY LIMITED.
SOLICITORS:
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
DIRECTORS:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX,
22 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Chartered Accountant
(Aust.), Chairman.
DAVID WIESON, Q.C.,
“The Astor,” Macquarie Street, Sydney, Barrister-at-Law.
JOHN GORDON CROWTHER,
Australian Club, Macquarie Street, Sydney, Solicitor.
JOHN WAEEACE DUNLOP,
120 Bellevue Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Merchant.
GREGORY BEAXEAND KATER,
106 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Electrical Engineer.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
FRANK ARTHUR TINDALE, 1 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS TO THE UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
MALLESON STEWART & CO., 46 Queen Street, Melbourne.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
lAN POTTER & CO., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne,
who will take firm £1,500,000 of the issue.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE;
The objects of the issue are to provide funds for general expan-
sion in the Company’s activities.
The main expansion will take place in buildings and plant for
sugar milling and refining and in bulk raw sugar installations.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
1. Certificates for the Debentures
will be issued for amounts of
£100 or multiples thereof.
2. Interest at the rate of 5% per
annum will be payable half-
yearly on March 31 and
September 30. The first pay-
ment of interest will be made
on March 81, 1953, and will
cover interest accruing from
date of allotment to March
31, 1958, upon the amount or
amounts paid up from time to
time and will be paid only
to allottees. The Board of
Directors will proceed to
allotment daily as from the
opening date of the issue. In-
terest will be payable free of
exchange in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth and Hobart.
3. The principal will be repaid
at par on September 30, 1962,
or, at the option of the Com-
pany, upon at least six months’
prior notice of redemption
having been given, on Septem-
ber 30, 1959, or any half-
yearly interest date thereafter.
The principal will be repay-
able free of exchange in Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adel-
aide, Perth and Hobart.
4. In the event of any portion
of the money payable remain-
ing unpaid after the due date
for payment, the relative allot-
ment may be cancelled and
any amount or amounts
already paid pray be forfeited
to and become the property
of the Company, or interest
at the rate of 6 per cent, per
annum may be charged by the
Company on any instalment
outstanding.
5. The principal register for the
Debentures will be kept in
Sydney. A branch register
will be maintained in Mel-
bourne and transfers of Deben-
tures between these registers
■will be effected free of charge
by the Company.
ASSET AND INTEREST
COVER FOB THE ISSUE:
The report of the Investigat-
ing' Accountants, Messrs. Han-
cock & Woodward, contained in
the full Prospectus, shows that
the net tangible assets of the
Company at the close of its last
financial year, March 31, 1952,
total £31,699,082. These assets
equal £792 for each £100 de-
benture on the basis of an issue
of £4,000,000.
The Report also indicates that
the earnings of the Company for
the last financial year cover the
annual interest payable on the
total amount of the Debentures
10;53 times on the same basis.
SECURITY FOB THE
ISSUE:
The Debentures of the Issue
are secured by a Trust Deed
dated 1 Aug. 29, 1952, made be-
tween the Company and The
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) (as Trustee for the
Debenture holders).
The Colonial Sugar Refining
Company Ltd. is one of the
oldest industrial companies in
Australia. It was formed in
1855, with a capital of
£150,000, by reconstruction
of the Australasian Sugar Co.,
which, in 1842, had succeeded
the Australian Sugar Co., the
first company established in Aus-
tralia for sugar refining.
From a commencement in the
refining of imported raw sugar
in a few small factories at Can-
terbury, N.S.W., The Colonial
Sugar Refining Company Ltd.
has now so extendedmnd widened
its operations in the production
of sugar, and spread its activi-
ties in other directions, that,
on share capital . employed,
it occupies second place among
Australian industrial enterprises.
The operations of the Company
and its Subsidiaries now cover
the following:—
Raw Sugar Mills, Sugar Re-
fineries, Distilleries, Carbon Di-
oxide Plants, Shipping (three
oceangoing ships with a total
loading capacity of 18,000 tons),
Building Materials and Indus-
trial Chemicals.
In Fiji, the Company, in
addition to five raw sugar mills,
owns a pineapple plantation and
cannery and a cattle station of
17,000 acres.
In New Zealand the Company,
as the holder of a large interest
in Fletcher Holdings Ltd., is
interested in the building and
allied industries and in a large
pulp and paper project in the
North Island.
The main interest of the Com-
pany is, of course, in the pro-
duction of sugar, its leadership
and experience in this industry
having contributed largely to
an efficiency which has received
favorable recognition from world
sugar authorities. Considerable
development, however, has taken
place, and continues to do so, in
the other operations of the Com-
pany.
The total activities of the
Company for the year to March
31, 1952, resulted in an output
of £57,000,000 in value. The
Company’s employees number
almost 10,000 apart from those
of subsidiary companies. The
Company’s Australian mills
afford an outlet for sugar cane
grown by some 1500 Australian
farmers, for which they received
£4,400,000 for the cane crop in
the last financial year. The
Company has contributed sub-
stantially to the efficiency of the
sugar industry and to the de-
velopment of new industries in
Australia. It can therefore be
regarded as playing a most im-
portant part in the Australian
economy and one which will ad-
vance with the progress of the
Commonwealth.
STOCK EXCHANGE
LISTING:
Application will be made as
soon as practicable for the list-
ing of the Debentures by the
Stock Exchanges of Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth and Hobart.
APPLICATIONS FOR
DEBENTURES:
Application forms (together
with copies of the full Pros-
pectus) may be obtained from:
The Colonial Sugar Refining
Co. Ltd., or any branch of The
Bank of New South Wales, or
the Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney Ltd., or any Member of
a recognised Stock Exchange in
Australia.
Applications will be received
only on one of the application
forms referred to and endorsed
upon a printed copy of the full
Prospectus and should be lodged
at the principal office in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth or Hobart of the Bank of
New South Wales or the Com-
mercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Limited.
Any application for transmis-
sion to the lodgment at the
principal offices of the above-
mentioned banks in Australia will
be received by any of the offices
of these banks in Australia or
through any member of a recog-
nised Stock Exchange in Aus-
tralia.
Application Lists will open at
noon on September 8, 1952,
Eastern time, and the lists will
remain open until the close of
business on October 8, 1952, sub-
ject to the right of the Board
of Directors of the Company
to close the issue at an earlier
time without prior notice.
STATUTORY INFORMA-
TION:
(a) The minimum amount
which in the opinion of the
Directors must be raised by the
issue of debentures is £4,000,000.
This amount is required to be
provided in respect of each of
the following matters :—
(i) The purchase price of any
property purchased or to
be purchased which is to be
defrayed in whole or in
part out of the proceeds of
the issue is Nil, but the
estimated amount which
will be expended in re-
spect of extensions and im-
provements to buildings
and additions to plant,
machinery and equipment
required for the expansion
of the business carried on
by the Company and its
subsidiaries is £3,925,000.
(ii) Preliminary expenses pay-
able by the Company, Nil.
Expenses of the issue (in-
cluding underwriting com-
mission and brokerage
amounting to £50,000
payable to the underwriters
in consideration of their
agreeing to procure sub-
scriptions for debentures of
the issue) are estimated to
amount to £75,000.
(iii) Repayment of any moneys
borrowed by the Company
in respect of any of the
foregoing matters. Nil. But
pending the expenditure of
the sum of £3,925,000 as
referred to in sub-para-
graph (i) hereof, part
thereof will from time to
time be used in reducing
bank overdrafts.
(iv) Working capital, Nil.
(b) No amounts are to be
provided in respect of the
matters aforesaid otherwise than
out of the proceeds of the issue.
of months later paid capital
stood at £986,000 in 400,000 5
p.c. prefs. and 586,000 ords. To
help pay death duties on the
estate, etc., it was decided to
make available to the public
254,000 of the prefs. at 21s.
each —they had been issued in
February, 1949, and all taken
by T. C. Beirne for cash. The
balance of the prefs. and all the
ords. are held mostly by T. C.
Beirne’s trustees and members
of the family, and a small pro-
portion by present and past
members of the staff and the
staff provident fund.
For the five years to mid-
-1949 net earnings averaged
£104,740, and divs. averaged
12.8 p.c. Then it was decided
to keep the ord. div. at 8 p.c.,
strengthen the none-too-stout
prop for capital and improve
and brighten the store. Until
the close of accounts in 1951
expanding turnover more than
took care of narrowing gross
margins and rising costs. Last
term the. picture changed, as the
following comparison of p. and
1. figures shows;
1950. 1951. 1952.
Gross profit £645,239 £784,281 £748,817
Less —
Exes. .. 480,679 566,462 645,619
Deprec’tion 8.882 14,433 42,322
Tax .. 54,000 80,000 5,803
Net profit.. 101,678 128,386 49,573
A flood of imports, tightening
of credit, continued rise in costs
and growth of buyer resistance
toward the close of accounts,
with consequent slackening of
turnover, were the main
troubles. In order to meet the
market and reduce stocks the
management appears to have cut
prices on some lines. The drop
in gross profit was £40,964. In-
creases of £79,157 in exes, and
of £27,889 in provision for de-
preciation were partly offset by
a shrinkage of £74,197 in allow-
ance for taxation —refund of
provisional tax paid is expected
to cover the 1952 tax bill.
The profit was thus £73,813
lighter at £49,573, or sufficient to
pay the pref. div. and show 5
p.c. on ord. capital as against
17.6 p.c. and 14.2 p.c. for the
two preceding years. The div.
was kept at approximately 8 p.c.,
of which 4.9 p.c. was paid from
tax-free reserves appropriated to
ord. shareholders in 1949 and
now exhausted.
Installation of new escalators,
fixtures and plant and improve-
ment to premises added £190,825
to the book-value of fixed
assets: —
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 986,000 986.000 986,000
Creditors and
overdraft .. 324,632 376,359 544,675
Tax provision. . 61,076 80,000
Final divs. .. 27,580 27,580 27,580
Fixed assets .. 261,761 304,517 495,342
Shares subsids. 108.184 108,684 108,684
Stock ... .. 866,285 874,112 846,597
Debtors .. 356,640 454,979 390,714
Cash .. .. 604 1,037 1,709
The subsidiaries, Duncan Street
Properties (paid capital £64,300)
and Beirne (Pty.), Ltd. (paid
capital £43,284), which operates
at Ipswich and Mackay (Q.),
■are satisfactory profit-earners.
The drop of £27,515 in stocks
and of £64,265 in book-debts re-
flects development already re-
ferred to. A drop of £179,424
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£775,449) was due to the outlay
on fixed assets.
At the moment prospects for
maintenance of the 8 p.c. are
not bright. The retail trade
generally is still overstocked,
and costs remain on the up-
grade. At 18s. 6d. the prefs.,
covered by 635. 6d. in net
tangibles, yield 5.4 p.c. The
ords. are not listed on ’Change.
Sons of Gwalia, Ltd.
Increased production and the
1949 lift in the price of gold
enabled this London-controlled
co. operating at Leonora (W.A.)
to offset the effects of rising
costs and taxation and pay divs.
of Is. and 2s. per 10s. share (sub-
ject to U.K. income tax) in
1949 and 1950. Last year a loss
of £7054 showed up, and no
div. was paid:
Ore Working
Treated, Gold, Costs.* Loss.
Dec., Tons. Fine Oz. s. d. £
1948.. 67,289 18,139 45 2.8 15,911
Profit, t
1949.. 91,399 23,572 43 2.7 19,968
1950.. 101,112 25,628 48 9.9 27,962
1951.. 82,752 19,186 59 3.8 7.054
* Including development, f After deduct-
ing U.K. income and profit taxes.
The drop in volume of mill-
feed was due to a mechanical
breakdown, and the grade of
ore treated (4.6dwt. as against
s.ldwt. in 1950) was below
mine average. Including de-
velopment, working costs ad-
vanced by 10s. 6d., reaching
595. 3.8 d. per ton, due to re-
current wage-lifts and higher
prices for stores.
Ore reserves at December 31
last were put at 591.136 tons
(down only 2394 tons), averag-
ing 5.46dwt. Diamond-drill and
other developments have dis-
closed some encouraging results
between Nos. 26 and 31 levels,
from which area the bulk of
mill-feed is now drawn.
For the current term in-
creased output—provided the
labor force can be held—a
slight lift in grade and the
premium (average about £1 an
ounce to date) from sale of gold
on the free market should help
offset the continued rise in
costs. Still, failing a lift in the
dollar price of the yellow
metal, which is doubtful at the
moment, the outlook for the in-
dustry in Australia is one of
slow strangulation, unless the
rise in costs is soon arrested.
Although a lift in the dollar
price would help the dollar
earnings of the sterling area, as
well as those of gold producers,
it would also increase the price
of American imports and tend
to lift world prices for com-
modities generally, just at a time
when it is most desirable that
they should fall. '
At the close of last accounts
the co.’s current assets totalled
£119,951 (of which £71,316 was
stores) and current liabilities
£57,261. Paid capital is £162,500
in f.-p. 10s. shares, which the
market prices at 10s. 9d. each as
against 16s. lOd. early in 1951.


Missing Beneficiary.
NEXT-OF-KIN WANTED—MOONEY.
TO WILLIAM MOONEY, native of Dublin, Ireland,
son of WILLIAM MOONEY, or his children. —
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court of Justice
of the Republic of Ireland, made in the matter
of the Estate of EDITH MARY MOONEY, Deceased,
HELEN BEATRICE COLLINS, Plaintiff, and
ARTHUR W. MOONEY, Defendant, the persons
claiming to be next-of-kin of EDITH MARY
MOONEY, late of Stewart’s Hospital, Palmerstown,
in the county of Dublin, who died in or about
the 11th day of June, 1910, and in particular
the persons above referred to are on or before
the 21st day of January, 1953, to come in and prove
their claims at Room 110, Law Courts, Dublin,
Ireland, or in default thereof they will be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
The 28th day of January, 1953, at 11 o’clock in the
forenoon, at the Examiner’s Office of the said Courts,
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims. —DATED this 4th day of September, 1952. —
G. M. B. MURTAGH, Examiner.
Divorce Notices.
TO MERLE LORRAINE ROSS
Street Subiaco Western Australia —ME IsOO
that your husband PETER GORDON ROSS to• «“
menced proceedings against you in theJ Supreme
of Western Australia for dissolution of
namint VLADIMIR JANDOUREK as co-defenda
M you desire to defend such proceedings you ®
defence in the Central Office o the Suprem
Court Perth within 30 clear days from
of this publication in default of you M
the case may proceed and the Court P vour
and make orders against you m .
absence. Dated the sth day of ep
G. J. BOYLSON. Registrar. JOHN. H. OHALUW x
89 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitor
SUPREME COURT OF~NEW SOU!
WALES—In Divorce. „
rrn -nmiPTaAS HENRY HONAN late of Bnsbane.
TAKE NOTICE that BETHEL GRACE HONAN |
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1512 of 195.. on -
ground of desertion without just cause. or .
for three years and upwards If you w>sh to
lav enter an appearance in the Bi’
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney bj
14th day of November 1952 and
of the Petition without charge from QMOW&
BKE GILLIS & 00., Solicitors, of 15-JO
pSe. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN. BegUtrar.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
“South Pacific,” which opened at His
Majesty’s, is the sensation of the
moment, and the opening night was quite
a brilliant affair. The entrance of the
vice-regal party was quite ceremonious.
Lady Brooks wore a slipper-satin gown
in her favorite blue, highlighted with
lovely silver embroideries. In the Govern-
ment House party were U.S. Ambassador
Pete Jarman and Mrs. Jarman, who had
flown from Canberra and wore a lace and
tulle gown in soft-pink tonings. Also in the
party Were the Prime Minister and his
family. Mrs. Menzies chose a gown and
stole of deep royal-blue chiffon. Daughter
Heather’s gown of tulle was in pale-
primrose-yellow tonings. Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins was with Lady Collins, she
in old-gold satin, the bodice embroidered
with gold beads. With U.S. Consul-
General Henry Stebbins was Mrs. Steb-
bins, whose choice was slate-grey satin.
The John Kaufmans, from Sydney,
were there, Mrs. Kaufman in black velvet
topped with a cape of white Arctic fox.
Mrs. Frank Tait’s chiffons were
royal-blue, Mrs. Athol Shmith’s satins
dove-grey. Mrs. Norman Shepherd’s
pastel-pink satin gown was embroidered
with clusters of emerald-green sequins.
Lady Snow’s black tulle frock was wide-
skirted and strapless. Mrs, Len Buxton
was in off-white satin. Lady Disney’s
gown was of black-and-grey candy-
striped satin. Mrs. Oscar Hammerstein’s
two sisters, Mrs. Roy Youlden and Mrs.
George Schnabel, were presented to the
Governor and Lady Brooks. Mrs. Youl-
den’s black satin gown had an all-over
pattern of royal-blue beads; Mrs.
Schnabel wore French-blue taffeta with
matching gloves. Unusual was the
bouffant green tulle gown over cyclamen
satin worn by Elizabeth Cresswell. After
the performance a supper-party was held
in the d.c. foyer. The star of “South
Pacific,” Mary La Roche, was enchant-
ing in a short white organdie strapless
frock and white ermine stole.
The dinner-dance held at the Delphic
to raise funds for the Limbless Soldiers’
Association and St. Vincent’s Hospital
was organised by Mrs. M. J. Sterling,
who wore a pervenche-blue French lace
gown, Mrs. H. Armatruda, in a sheath
gown of black velvet, and Mrs. Con
Curtain, whose strapless gown was of
daffodil-yellow broderie Anglaise. A
mannequin-parade and a very spirited
can-can were among the features of the
evening. G. W. Crittle, accompanied
by his wife, whose brown tulle gown was
mounted on flesh-pink taffeta, represented
the Limbless Soldiers’ Association.
Among the dancers were Mrs. J. New-
ton, whose flowing chiffons were shaded
from deep-blue through to pastel; Mrs.
Leo Cooney, whose dove-grey chiffon
frock had a pleated skirt and swathed
bodice ; Mrs. E. Mitchener in gold satin
strapless gown trimmed with pearls and
gold beads ; Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn in
an old-world frock of white Swiss em-
broidered organdie and a black lace man-
tilla ; Mrs, N. Dowling, who wore black
Chantilly lace ; Mrs. G. Belton Sterling,
her full-skirted gown of white net having
rows of black lace on skirt and bodice ;
and Marjorie Sterling, in orchid-pink
satin.
Most imposing feature of the High-
land Ball at the Town Hall, organised by
officers of the sth Battalion (the Scottish
regiment), was the grand march. Led by
pipers and headed by the Chief of the
General Staff, Lieut.-General S. F.
Rowell, and Mrs. Rowell, the C.O. of the
sth Battalion, Lt.-Col. I. H. Lowen, and
Mrs. Lowen, the parade went round the
hall and finally took up positions for
an eightsome reel. Among those who
danced this were Air Vice-Marshal
Harcourt-Smith and Mrs. Harcourt-
Smith, Air Vice-Marshal E. Hewitt and
his wife, and the U.S. Navy Attache,
Commander Robert Macklin, and Mrs.
Macklin. Mrs. Rowell had a dark-green
tartan sash for her ciel-blue-and-silver
lame gown. Her daughter Roslyn wore
billowy white chiffons. Lady Savage,
whose husband, Sir Rupert Savage, is
honorary colonel of the sth Battalion,
wore black velvet with shoestring straps.
Gwen Savage danced in old-gold satin.
Mauve chiffon, with pink roses on the
skirt, was chosen by Mrs. Lowen. Mrs.
Keith Hamer’s lovely cream lace gown
was mounted on pink satin. Mrs. Douglas
Bowden teamed a red velvet skirt and
white broderie Anglaise blouse ; Mrs. H.
Taylor wore dove-grey satin brocade.
Mrs. W, J. Brens, pictured here,
recently became Lady Mayoress of this
city. Country-born, Mrs. Brens was a
hard worker during the war years with
the Town Hall Patriotic Group, which
sewed garments for the Bundles for
Britain Appeal until clothes-rationing
came in, when the group became cooks
in the Town Hall kitchen, making jams,
preserves, pickles and cakes, which were
sold for various war organisations. Mrs.
Brens, who is a comrrpttee-member of
the City Creche, is an excellent cook
and keen gardener. She has won several
awards at horticultural shows.
The party given at the Dorchester by
those popular Americans Colonel and
Mrs. Rufus Ramey was a hail-and-
farewell affair. The Rameys were saying
goodbye and introducing Colonel Ramey's
successor, the new U.S. Army Attache,
Colonel J. W. Middleton, and Mrs.
Middleton. Gold braid ornamented the
blue dress-uniforms worn by Colonel
Ramey and Colonel Middleton. Mrs.
Ramey wore a full-length gown of black
chiffon, the bodice featuring a transparent
yoke, cut high to the throat and finished
with black guipure lace applique. Mrs.
Middleton’s black tulle had graduated
tucks on the bouffant skirt, and a tulle
stole with tucked ends covered , the strap-
less bodice.
Among the many Americans at this
hail-and-farewell were Consul-General
Henry Stebbins and his wife, Captain
Robert Wayne Denbo, U.S. Navy Attache,
and Mrs. Denbo, Commander Robert
Macklin, Assistant U.S. Navy Attache,
and Mrs. Macklin, Colonel John Sullivan,
Army Air Force Attache, and his wife.
Colonel George Uhrich, Assistant Army
Attache, and Mrs. Uhrich, and Major and
Mrs. John Clarke. Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss
was in black-braided frock and mink coat.
Mrs. Charles Millet wore a sand-toned
gaberdine suit with a black velvet beret.
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, president of the
Royal Melbourne Hospital Almoner
Auxiliary, welcomed the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. W. J. Brens, to the hat-parade
sponsored by William Beale at the Aus-
tralia. This will benefit the auxiliary.
There were two novel fashions shown
by a male escort to the mannequins. One
was his black-and-white faille waistcoat
which matched the hat worn by one man-
nequin ; the other was a smoke-grey satin
waistcoat embroidered with pearls and
sequins to match a hat of smoke-grey
satin and embroidered with grey pearls,
jet beads and sequins. These hats by
William Beale were unusual in shape and
original in trimming. There were large
flat platter-hats with floral trimmings,
large “flying-saucers” and pixie hats with
tall peaked crowns. One of the “flying-
saucer” hats was of white satin
embroidered with black sequins and with
a finish of “rabbit-ears” bow. Short white
gloves covered with black sequins matched
the hat. A pixie hat of white coarse straw
had a cluster of white cabbage roses at
flie peak. Attractive was a small pillbox
of black velvet covered with white string
braid and worn with a black velvet stole
trimmed with matching braid.
From Sydney
Air Force week opened on Monday
with a wreath-laying ceremony at the
Cenotaph. The boys’ choir of St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, wearing their
surplices, led the singing. This inno-
vation, for which thanks are due to
Dean Babbage, might well be repeated
on similar occasions, since it added much
to the solemnity and dignity of the scene.
Wreaths were laid by the heads of the
services, the Lord Mayor, and most of
the consular corps.
Matron Edna Shaw, 0.8. E., is retiring
from Crown Street Women’s Hospital
after 34 years of service. During that
time 100,000 babies were born at this
hospital. Today many of those are watch-
ing their own young fry scuffing out
shoe-leather with healthy abandon.
Numbers of these owe their very exist-
ence to Matron Shaw’s care and skill, and
it is most fitting, therefore, that a testi-
monial fund should be raised to mark
her retirement from active service. A
meeting at the Hotel Australia, opened
by C. R. McKerihan, president of the
hospital board, to inaugurate such a fund
was attended by representatives of no
fewer than 25 women’s organisations. It
was decided that each would make a
direct gift instead of organising functions
for the purpose of raising contributions.
The public, too, are invited to subscribe
by sending donations direct to A. Golsby,
secretary of the Matron Shaw appeal, at
Crown-street Hospital At a farewell cere-
mony on October 23, at which Matron
Shaw will open the new wing of the
nurses’ home to be named after her, the
proceeds of the fund will be handed to
Matron, who has already expressed her
wish that the money so raised be used for
the general welfare of nurses in the hos-
pital.
The lucky lass whom you see here is
Enid Blackwood, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. S. J. V. Blackwood, of Cremorne,
who will leave for England early next
year to join her fiance, Lieut. Harry
Dalrymple, R.A.N., who is in England
for four years. At present he is doing a
special course with the R.N. at Plymouth.
The young couple plan to marry in Eng-
land, but so far they have not completed
the details of the wedding; Meantime
Enid, who has modelling experience in
Australia, hopes to continue with her
career and gain overseas engagements.
Magic and magicians are excitingly
evocative words. At the Empire Theatre
Virgil, the American illusionist, backs
them up with a nice display of skill, en-
chanted atmosphere and excellent
costume. His wife Julie, a very able
assistant, appears thoroughly to enjoy
being sawn in two, impaled and immured.
The audience included 400 local mem-
bers of the international Brotherhood
of Magicians, who turned on a back-
stage party for the visiting wonder-
workers. We certainly have our quota
of magicians ; no city of the Middle Ages
could have boasted a larger gathering.
It seems a pity that not more use is made
of this highly-skilled labor by such bodies
as the Transport Department —a fleet of
flying carpets might solve some of our
transport problems. There was no men-
tion of the sisterhood and no broomsticks
were parked in the foyer, but doubtless
superior feminine skill has turned those
tell-tale trifles into limousines. In common
with all thrillers, this show provides ex-
cellent escape-material.
Earning much-needed dollars is some-
thing economists go into a grim huddle
about these days, but to the N.S.W.
Orchid Society it is a gay, joyous and
altogether lovely business. Their show at
Sydney Town Hall last week packed
100,000 colorful blooms into the main
hall,’ to be seen by all and sundry
for ’a modest two shillings. Those who
know their Omar went round wondering
what can the grower buy one-half so
precious as the goods he sells. Sydney-
siders take to growing cymbidiums like
ducks to water. Every year the blooms
become more beautiful, and exotic names
emphasise the Arabian Nights fantasy of
jewel-like color. Shoulder-sprays of con-
siderable elegance arranged by Mesdames
Coyle and Wurth can be guaranteed to
make any girl feel like a million dollars.
The decorative section convinced this
onlooker that the way to show orchids is
in the pot. They arrange themselves
much better than even skilled florists can
dispose them. A vase of cymbidiums by
Mrs. P. Ellis proved the exception by dis-
playing both taste and distinction of
color and design.
A refreshing exhibition of painting by
Jeff Smart and Jacqueline Hick is on
show at David Jones’s Art Gallery. At
the private view with cocktails on Friday
there was a good gathering of interested
and interesting people. Among them were
Sir George and Lady Rich, Miss Alice
Danciger, hatless and in navy blue, Mrs.
Lennox Bode, very chic in grey with the
smallest hat of downlike white feathers,
Mr. Erik Langker, looking very in-
terested, Mrs. Bill Kendal and Elaine
Haxton.
The Consul-General for Nicaragua,
Mr. Cliff Paray, and Mrs. Paray cele-
brated Nicaraguan Independence Day
with a reception at their home at
Wunulla-road, Point Piper. Some 200
guests were present, including many con-
sular representatives. Mrs. Paray received
her guests in a tailored cocktail frock of
black jersey and Chantilly lace. Their
home was decorated with choice blooms,
many of them flown from Queensland for
the occasion.
The Garden Club of Australia is
arranging for its members a number of
visits to gardens of charm and outstand-
ing interest. On Saturday Professor and
Mrs. E. G. Waterhouse opened their
beautiful grounds at Gordon, and a large
gathering took advantage of this oppor-
tunity to see the fine display of azaleas
and camellias. This really is a garden;
it has almost everything a true garden-
lover could wish for, plus a few special
features peculiar to the Waterhouses.
There are privacy, fine grouping of
shrubs, well-disposed masses of white to
give a greater sense of space and coolness,
every corner shows considered planning
and planting, and the Judas-tree alone
was worth the trip to enjoy. The special
features were the Chinese pottery-pieces,
skilfully placed to give the garden
wanderer an unexpected small pleasure,
and the satisfactory use of stone. Most
Australian gardens are spoilt by the
stonework, which more often than not is
hideous. Here the stone took its right-
ful place—dignified, useful and unob-
strusive. An exhibition of the right and
wrong uses of stone would be a beneficial
service to many Sydneysiders.
The Trotting Club’s spring carnival
opened at Harold Park on Saturday in a
festive atmosphere of flags, bunting and
floral decorations. Hundreds of guests,
many from inter-State, enjoyed the
spirited events. President Mr. W. J. Dun-
lop and Mrs. Dunlop received the guests,
helped by vice-president Mr. Alton
Cusick and Mrs. Cusick. On Monday
night the club held a reception at the
Trocadero, and there will be trotting
events at Harold Park tonight and again
on Saturday, when the Governor-General,
Sir William McKell, will present the
Spring Cup to the owner of the winning
horse.
Dates for your notebook: On Satur-
day, September 20, the garden of Mr. and
Mrs. Hector Tinkler, of No. 3 The
Boulevarde, Cheltenham, will be open to
the public in aid of the British Children s
Comfort Fund. A charge of 2s. will e
made.
On Tuesday, September 22 at the
Royal Empire Society’s room, 17 Btign-
street, at 2.30 p.m. the Austrahan-Ameri-
can Society will hold a reception for La \
Spender and Mr. and Mrs Morgan
Davies (she is Joy Turpin of Kiss Me,
Kate”). Tickets at 7s. 6d. from Mrs.
Helen Scorfield (XY 4968).


‘The Greatest Name
in the
Battery World”
txib*
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX3.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
An earnest chap is Ernest Burbridge,
the new representative in Australia of the
British Council. A teacher by trade be-
fore he was appointed to the council in
1941, Burbridge has the concise delivery
and the zeal which should make a suc-
cess of one of his main intentions here—
to make audiences, through public lec-
tures, en rapport with players staging
Shakspeare. A governor of the Stratford
Memorial Theatre —in which town he
lived in a 15th-century thatched cottage
close by Anne Hathaway’s —Burbridge
organised lectures on similar lines to add
to the appreciation of overseas visitors to
the Bard’s theatre. One of his war-time
jobs was teaching English to Czech,
Netherlands and Belgian brigades based
in Britain. He relieves Sir Angus Gillan.
Fast work in pursuit of wogs has taken
pathologist F. R. Magarey, in a little
over 15 years, from graduation at
Adelaide University to the Chair of
Pathology at Sydney University. In that
time he’s managed to gather a Doctorate
of Medicine from Adelaide and mem-
bership of the Royal College of
Physicians, do five years’ service with the
A.1.F., and add his present interest —a
senior lectureship in pathology at the
Welsh National School of Medicine in
Cardiff. He will relieve Professor Wil-
liam Keith Inglis, who, having held the
pathology chair since 1936, will be able
to devote his time now to his excellent
collection of first-editions up at
Wahroonga.
Hefty Bill Gunn, 3in. over 6ft. of well-
known South Queensland cattleman, goes
on to the Commonwealth Bank board.
Elected last year president of the Queens-
land United Graziers’ Association (at 37,
its youngest), Gunn was schooled at The
King’s, Parramatta (N.S.W.), and five
years after leaving there was managing
the 35,000-acre property Tarawinnabar.
He turned its brigalow and belar scrub
into one of the best-stocked and -watered
holdings in the Goondiwindi district. As
well as holding down membership of the
Wool Board, the Federal Woolgrowers’
Council and the Graziers’ Council, Gunn
runs a cattle property at Tara,
From a lectureship in physics at
Adelaide University to the professorship
in the science at its Sydney counterpart
goes Dr. H. Messel. He specialises in
cosmic-ray research, which he will pursue
in the university’s projected scheme of
research into those outer-space visitants.
A Canadian of internationally recognised
ability, he’s a bearded 30.
“H. 8.” farewells a colleague:
Ernest Christian Sommerlad (B. 10/9/’52)
was, like Merino wool, a special product of
the Australian countryside. Youngest of a
large pioneering family in the Tenterfield district,
young Sommerlad at the age of 11 gave up
book-learning—what he could get of it in those
days—to work on the family farm. But the
fire that was in him soon burst forth. At 21
he entered Newington College, where he simul-
taneously repaired the gap in his schooling and
trained for the Methodist ministry. In 1911
he went to Fiji as a missionary, but, ill-health
forcing retreat to Australia, he next turned his
energies to newspaper work. There he was still
an evangelist.
Soon after establishing himself as an editor
in Inverell and Glen Innes he merged several
district papers into Northern Newspapers Pty.,
Ltd. (publishers of the Inverell “Times” and
Glen Innes “Examiner”), of which he was chair-
man and managing-director from the inception.
In those days northern N.S.W. was in a
ferment; the movement for the creation of a
new State gave Sommerlad an extra outlet for
his energies and his idealism. He helped found
the Country party, with which he was associated
continuously in one executive capacity or
another, including that of State chairman.
From president of the N.S.W. Country Press
Association he was appointed manager of
Country Press, Ltd., and, later, managing-
director and chairman. Enlarging the scope of
his work, he became an M.L.C., a director of
Australian United Press —chairman of the
N.S.W. branch at the time of his death-
founder of Gotham advertising-service agency,
vice-president of the N.R.M.A. and trustee
of the Mitchell and Public Libraries.
In between a prolific writer of editorials and
political scripts, he also found time to write a
handbook on journalism. By any test
Sommerlad ranks as a notable Australian.
Junior Chamber International, at
present raging mightily in Melbourne, has
elected Roberto Villanueva as new world
president. A 32-year-old Filipino Inky-
wayfarer who served in the Philippines
underground intelligence bureau during
the Jap occupation, four years ago he
helped found the Jaycee movement in
Asia. Today the new president is boss of
200,000 Jaycees in 37 countries. Before
coming to Melbourne he set up a junior
chamber at Pyongtack, South Korea.
The Westralian Government’s Con-
troller of Stores, C. R. F. Knight, is shut-
ting-up shop after close on 50 years in
the State Public Service, which he joined
as a messenger-boy in 1903. When he
took over his present job 15 years ago
his department was laying out half a
million a year on Government supplies ;
at the time of the recent loan cuts the
annual expenditure had grown to £5
million. Just before Hitler ran amuck
Knight was farsighted enough to spend
half a million on supplies from various
parts of the world—his move enabled the
Army to get many goods elsewhere
very short. And after the war he
averted shortages of material for water-
supply, housing, land-settlement and
other large-scale operations by meeting
demands from stores in stock. Knight
learnt much of what an army needs in
war while on service against the Kaiser
with the 10th Light Horse. Now a trim
65, he plays a good round of golf
and will spend much of his leisure
boating.
Six-feet-odd and 17-stone of Rugby-
trained bulk, Basil Travers goes from
Sydney’s Cranbrook School to the head-
mastership of Launceston’s ancient
Church Grammar. Owning a face with
good rocky lines and a lightening grin,
and also a nickname, “Jika,” which he
can’t account for, Travers was selected as
N.S.W. Rhodes Scholar for 1940, but
heard of it somewhere in the Red Sea,
Middle East-bound. Oxford had to wait
—through the Western Desert (A.D.C. to
General Ivgn Mackay in the capture of
Bardia and Tobruk), then through the
Salamaua and Lae campaigns (brigade-
major in the 3rd Division). Travers got
to Oxford in 1946, already with cricket
and football blues from Sydney Univer-
sity ; he added similar blues at Oxford,
a half-blue for athletics (weight-putting),
and, in the still-weigh tier line, his M.A.
TRAVERS, of the four R’s.
and B.Litt. While in the U.K. he played
in the English Rugby side against the
Australians, and captained Oxford
against the same visitors. Now coach of
the N.S.W. and Australian Rugby fifteens
(his pupils are just back from New
Zealand), Travers will land smack in the
middle of Australian Rules country in
Tasmania. He’ll probably be able to
look after himself.
George Alfred Cook, M.C., M.Sc.,
retiring from the secretaryship
of the C.S.I.R.O., has seen that organisa-
tion grow from a staff of two to a regi-
ment of over 3000, 1000 of them being
research specialists in world class. Cook
graduated from Melbourne University in
1915 with first-class honors, just in time
to use his engineering knowledge with
the 2nd Australian Tunnelling Corps in
France, where he dug up his M.C. After
a period with Electrolytic Zinc he entered
COOK, of the C.S.I.R.O.
the newly-formed official science body,
became assistant-secretary in 1927 and
secretary in 1944, and has never ceased
to be impressed by the great national
value of the work and the number
of investigators of outstanding intellect
who are with it. He feels it was
a good life to be associated with such
work and with the three great chairmen
the organisation has had —the late Sir
George Julius, and Sir David Rivett and
Dr. I. Clunies-Ross. Always ready to pro-
vide the Press with readable information
on his association’s doings, Cook is now
looking forward to some quiet research
into the habits of backyard earthworms.
A life of varied activity closed when
Horace Jackson, Q.C., passed on in
Perth at 75. Known for over 40 years
in the legal, industrial, commercial and
sporting life of the State, he took his
law degree in Adelaide, worked for
crust while doing so, and headed west to
Coolgardie in the rush of 1896. There
law-clerking and freelancing presaged his
success in both fields —he took silk in
1930, the year he represented Westralia
at the Empire Press conference in Lon-
don. Chairman of directors of West
Australian Newspapers for over 25 years,
he was directorially connected with a
list of other companies that would just
about fill a directory. One of his last
activities was forming Western Collieries,
Ltd., which opened a new mine at Collie.
Vice-president of the W.A. Cricket Asso-
ciation, he was a bowerbird where books
were concerned.
Celebrated his golden wedding the
other day, E. R. Power, the Sydney re-
porter who made history when, in 1899,
he interviewed Lord Beauchamp, then on
his way to the Governorship of N.S.W.
The famous interview took place in
Albany harbor, when Power was handed
a sheet of notepaper on which was
written:
Greeting! Your birthstain have you turned
to good,
Forcing strong wills perverse to steadfast-
ness.
The first flush of the tropics in your blood,
And at your feet success. (Kipling.)
A poet could be forgiven, but not a
Governor in a country still mindful of its
convict associations, and there was a
tremendous uproar. James Edmond’s
comment in The Bulletin was: “For
‘birthstain’ take Beauchamp’s pills.”
Power, who was later chief sub-editor of
the “Age” for 42 years, and has around
him 11 children, 31 grandchildren and
three great-grandchildren, has the original
message. It is written in pencil on Lord
Beauchamp’s official notepaper.
A personality who deserves mention
here is Peggy, just dead at Seymour. She
was the magnificent grey charger that
Field-Marshal Blarney rode each year in
Melbourne Anzac Day processions. In
between those occasions she patrolled
V.F.L. football ovals, her well-disciplined
flanks gently pushing back women and
children when they got out of alignment.
She made various appearances with
J.C.W., notably when she pranced across
the stage at His Majesty’s bearing the
Red Shadow. She died in honorable
retirement in the police-paddock at
Seymour.
When the Royal Show opens in Mel-
bourne tomorrow Louis Monod will be
missing. With the R.A.S. for 40 years,
Monod has secretaried the State’s shop-
window for 20 of them in succession. Six
months ago he went to Europe and the
U.K. to study how things are done, and
he’s still there making notes and commit-
ting facts to a memory that has few
equals. W. F. Craig, with Monod since
1917, will run the Show this year.
Having a long-leave look at Brisbane
after two years in the Bougainville
district, R. C. Clammer, Inspector of
Police of the Royal Papuan and New
Guinea Constabulary, is as responsible
as anyone for the high degree of excel-
lence of the corps. A War I captain
with D.C.M., M.M. and two “mentions,”
Clammer had already had many years
of service in Rabaul, Wau and Manus
when the Japs struck. He was immedi-
ately appointed instructor to the consta-
bulary force, and between 1942-46 estab-
lished half a dozen training depots
throughout New Guinea. What was done
in them War II Diggers are freely ready
to acknowledge. On expiry of his leave
the inspector returns to the Territory.
In 1905 22-year-old Roy Lister Robin-
son left Adelaide on a Rhodes Scholar-
ship for Oxford. There he gained first-
class science honors, a Coutts Scholar-
ship, his cricket blue and a liking for
the Old Country which kept him there ;
to become chairman of the British
Forestry Commission and the second
Australian-born baron. Prior to the sixth
Commonwealth Forestry Conference in
Ottawa, of which he was vice-president,
Lord Robinson had completed a 3000-
mile inspection-tour of Canadian forests ;
it gave him the pneumonia which, at 69,
caused his death. He left no heir —his
son having been killed in action in 1942.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Lieut.-Colonel Joe Catron,
M.C. and Bar. A junior militia officer when
he joined the A.I.F. in 1914, he served on
Gallipoli and in France, rising to command
of his battalion, the Bth. After the war he
transferred to the Indian Army for some years,
A son in the R.A.A.F. was shot down m
War 11.
In Brisbane, at 51, Arthur Langmore, one ot
Australia’s best-known cattle-breeders. A
councillor of the Poll Shorthorn Society of
Australasia, for over 20 years he had been in
the forefront of the development of the beef-
cattle industry in Queensland, and on his stud
at Jondaryan (Q.) ran some of the best-quality
stock exhibited at Brisbane shows. At the
Sydney Royal this year he paraded the champion
bull, Prospect Field-Marshal, which the
American judge, Clinton K. Tomson, described
as the best Poll Shorthorn at the show. Lang-
more, as well, was himself a noted judge.
In England, at 55, James Morgan Walsh,
novelist. Born in Geelong (Vic.), he started his
literary career writing serials for the “Leader,”
and went on to produce at least 100 English
novels. Their titles —Spies from the Sky,
Bullets for Breakfast, The Crimes of
Cleopatra’s Needle and so forth —describe their
contents. After Guy Boothby, he was probably
the most prolific of Australian writers.
In Perth, at 'B3, Albert Jesse (Tommy)
Talbot, who, in 1892, was on the Coolgardie
field before the great rush started. Talbot
always claimed to be the discoverer of the
prospect known as “Bayley’s Reward.” He
and mates struck the reef, from which they took
gold worth £l7OO in one afternoon. They
buried part of the ore and took the rest back
to their camp without pegging their claim.
Coming back next morning they found that
Bayley and Ford had pegged the claim. After
argument Bayley offered to let Talbot’s party
share in the claim, but Ford refused. Later
Talbot acquired big pastoral and business
interests in the north- and south-west of the
State.
In London, at 84, Admiral Sir Percy Grant,
a flag-captain at the Battle of Jutland and
C.-in-C. of the Australia station between 1919-
21. He was one of the three C.-in-C.s who
made the first report on Singapore as a pros-
pective naval base.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
g
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
A
dfty
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple Instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS: ““ "
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Hist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building.
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTOKIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN- O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers.
Raffles Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
Regd. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
Him
For quality—for economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours an Xi pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores
Manufacturer’s Representatives;
MODEL X 246
(“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought-proof. •
“C.S.”: Kinross, owned by
David Ross, four miles out of
Holbrook (N.S.W.), and 4500
acres in area, is claimed to be
drought-proof. It has just won
an R.A.S. farm championship.
Of the area, 870 acres carries
sown pastures, 95 acres grazing
oats and 180 acres wheat. It is
in the 27in.-rainfall belt, and in
the “drought-proofing” the mea-
sures employed were: Provision
of 1025 tons of silage in 13
strategically-placed pits, conser-
vation of 305 tons of bailed
lucerne-hay, 75 tons of wheaten-
hay, 30 tons of oaten-hay, 370
tons of oaten-grain—a total of
1805 tons in all. The provision
of 22 paddocks adequately
watered by eight bores, 10 wind-
mills, four wells and three
pumps.
Simultaneously with the com-
pletion of the comprehensive
fodder-conservation plan—some
of the silage-pits were put down
17 years ago —production per
acre has increased, soil-fertility
has been restored by carefully-
arranged pasture-management,
new grasses have been intro-
duced and an output of more
than 2200 fat lambs a year
reached.
Nearly half of the farming
area has been cultivated. The
property supports 3500 breeding
Corriedale ewes, 70 rams, 500
wethers, 200 pure-bred Aber-
deen-Angus beef cows, 100
heifers, 10 bulls, 25 horses. This
represents a sheep equivalent of
7250 head.
David Ross is a grandson of
the Ross who first selected the
area in 1867.
To Get More Beef.
“C.P.”: Production of baby-
beef is advocated by a Queens-
land Aberdeen-Angus breeder,
Mrs. D. S. Smith, of Wyntoon,
Bowenville, as a quick method
of stepping-up output of meat.
She claims that Queensland,
normally the largest beef-produc-
ing State in the Commonwealth,
had during the past 12 months
found it necessary to import
meat. She holds, in an article in
the “Aberdeen-Angus Review”
(published in Scotland), that too
much time is lost in the prepara-
tion of a five-year-old bullock,
and to rear a beast to that age is
now becoming uneconomical.
“Cattlegrowers must breed the
type of animal that grows
quickly and produces beef of
good quality at IB months. This
is only possible by breeding
good-quality animals. It is
obvious to any observant person
that too many poor-class cattle
are in Australian herds. No
good results can ever be obtained
from the small-framed, weedy
and run-down animal that is the
outcome of years of carelessness
in breeding.
“All cattlebreeders, even those
on small areas who cannot run
more than 20 or so cows, should
use only good bulls. If they need
it they should be able to receive
financial assistance to buy good
bulls. Careful and regular cull-
ing of their cows should also be
done so that a higher standard
could be reached with them.”
She naturally praises the
quality of Aberdeen-Angus, and
believes them the most suitable
for raising young stock for baby
beef.
Hybrid Maize.
“Billycan”; On the rich
alluvial soils of the N.S.W.
Mudgee district Funk’s Yellow
Dent maize had for long been
the best yielding variety.
Growers had obtained 100-
bushel-per-acre crops without
much difficulty. The same
obtained on the rich- Tumut
River flats and on the fertile
Murrumbidgee River lands
around Gundagai.
In recent tests in all these
regions the best hybrids bred at
New England Experiment Farm
have lifted yields another 30
bushels per acre, with little extra
trouble and about 10s. per acre
extra for seed.
About 80 per cent, of growers
in those areas are now realising
on an investment which gives
them about a 600 p.c. dividend.
The remaining 20 p.c. must be
like the dog which sat on the
tucker-box instead of going out
after his dinner.
“Harvest Hands.”
“A.H.”: Now the pinched-up
workers of the apiary are taking
spring recce flights. If no
blossom is opening and yielding
they sink back into their cold
lethargy. If nectar and pollen
are available, the hatful of worn-
out bees left over from the
autumn harvesting will set about
rearing the mighty force needed
to store the spring and summer
honey crop.
The good beeman knows the
futility of using the harvest-flow
to build-up the “harvest hands.”
A two-months pollen-flow must
be located prior to the com-
mencement of the main flow.
The cold, hard granite country
where, later on, most of the big
yields are harvested is especially
useless for early build-ups. The
bees need to be travelled to
warm, sandy country, where
certain ground rubbish is giving
light stimulant of honey and
good pollen. The heath-lands of
the coastline can’t be bettered for
, an early build.
In the fruit-growing areas of
U.S.A. similar problems are
being overcome by the use of
refrigerated pollen, caught by the
pollen-traps fixed to the colony
entrance when times are lush,
and fed back to the bees six
weeks to two months prior to the
fruit-blossom. The beeman who
keeps the two-month breeding-
space in mind will have all the
harvest hands he needs.
Plant More Willows.
“Breck”: Few trees are as
hardy or as easily propa-
gated from cuttings as the
willow. For the cuttings
choose straight pieces of last
year’s wood, about 18in. long.
If the site is damp, plant direct
into it. For fairly soft ground
drive in a stout stake; about 2in.
in diameter for about 15in. Fill
the hole thus made with fine
sandy loam and place the cutting
in it, one-third above ground-
level and two-thirds below.
Firm the soil well. Tie the cut-
ting securely to a stake to help
it form an upright stem. It will
need protection from stock.
To check river-bank erosion,
layer willow cuttings along the
bank. They should be about
2ft. in length. Layer them
against the bank and Ift. or 2ft.
below the top of it, leaving Sin.
only of the youngest end of the
cutting exposed. Space the cut-
tings 3ft. to 4ft. apart. Where
the bank is eroding badly make
it 2ft. If the banks are very
steep a piece of stout wire placed
top and bottom of the cuttings,
and run the full length of the
bank, will hold the mass firm.
Struck in this way each cut-
ting produces a number of roots
and young willow growth
quickly shoots up all over the
bank. Keep willows within
bounds by regular pruning of
branches and suckers-.
Rhodes-grass.
“Gayana”: The place for
Rhodes-grass (B. 3/9/’52) is
where there is reasonable sum-
mer rainfall rather than where
little or no summer rain can be
expected. Better drought-resist-
ant grasses for such conditions
are Giant Panic- or Veldt-grass.
South Africa is the original
home of Rhodes-grass, and the
"I was just gonna propose when it snapped."
centre of origin of any plant
generally has a great diversity of
forms. The Rhodesian Depart-
ment of Agriculture has recently
discovered some of these forms,
and is perpetuating the best of
them. One called Katambora
Rhodes is described as a tall and
exceptionally leafy form and the
best yet seen in that colony.
Another Weedkiller.
“Nedrium”: A weedkiller
called maleic hydrazide has
shown some queer properties in
overseas tests. In one trial,
sprayed on maize it increased
the sugar-content thirteenfold.
Used as a preharvest spray it
can prevent later development
of sprouting and decreases
storage breakdown of root
crops. Carrots sprayed one to
three weeks before the expected
time of harvest show a notable
improvement of storage quality.
Lettuce-bolting and tobacco-
suckering have both been pre-
vented by maleic hydrazide.
In low dosage it can be
used to check the growth of
some plants. This may be of
value as a frost-protection mea-
sure —plants rendered tem-
porarily dormant do not suffer
as severely from frost attack as
those that are actively growing.
More tests of M.H. must be
made before it is released for
farm use. Its effect on human
beings is not yet known. It has
a bad effect on wheat, oats,
barley, rice, flax and lucerne, so
it cannot be used, like some
other selective weedkillers, to
deal with weeds in those crops.
1 Potatoes.
“My”: Dig over and roughly
level the soil a week or two be-
fore planting. Make a V-
shaped furrow 4in. or sin. deep
with a hoe and along this, a week
or so before planting, sprinkle
superphosphate, sulphate of
ammonia and sulphate of potash
(3:1:1) at the rate of ilb. to
10ft. of furrow. Work the ferti-
liser into the soil so that it won’t
come in direct contact with the
sets. They are placed in the
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The larger southern sunspot group has lost ground
considerably, so that its effects may be a good deal reduced.
This action has made considerable difference to the
cyclical sequence, and the course of the season will have
to be checked to discover how it stands.
There should be some xain now from the second group,
then a short cold spell, then a good season with thunder-
storm rains, which are beneficial to crops and pastures.


AMAZING NEW AIR JET
Bicycle Speedometer
See what speed you are
doing. Works same way as
aircraft speed indicator.
Clip on handlebars. Large,
easily read dial. Shows
speed up -to 50 m.p.h 12/6
posted.
ALBA ENGINEERING CO.,
Box 32, P.O. Camperdown, N.S.
. ■.
rtlssf*
►V
j
D
ykik
When the.
occasion calls
for the best!
mm
axansßm
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ESTABLISHED 18S8
SPECIAL HOSPIT
ST«E£T. ST, PETERS. AOILAIOI
LfOßs
“OLter. scott « toli.it
T5T.22.12
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
"Phenovis” Worm Remedy
faget...
\
fa
'S
t>-
trjs
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ol,ui
PHE.BX.BO
• x
IlfflOß
m
mm
VOOSI
Us
i*y
Roads like these
need Goodyear TJres
Your car may be fast, res-
ponsive, eager to go . . . but
once you’re in the rough, it’s
the tyres that take the punish-
ment. There’s comfort in
Goodyear when you’re
making pace on the straight,
and the tougher rubber, the
stronger cord body, the burly
shoulders are friends in need.
So is the wider, flatter, road-
gripping Goodyear tread.
No wonder more people, the
world over, prefer to travel
on Goodyear Tyres.
m
;
f
THIS HAPPENS . . .
This sign warns that the
smooth macadam ends in
loose, slippery gravel. Feel
how your Goodyear Tyres
meet this hazard with
resilient ease, because they
are designed to carry you
safely and well.
mm rv
GET THERE ON
GOO DaYEAR
A
©□“[LDDXXtl TYRES
YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER NOW HAS STOCKS
bottom of the furrow, shoots
uppermost, about 14in. apart and
covered with 4in. of soil.
Potatoes may be dug as
“new” potatoes shortly after
flowering, before they have
reached full development, but
they won’t store well at this
stage. Those for storing are best
left in the ground until the
foliage has yellowed or died off,
but don’t leave them too long
or they’ll shoot again.
Before storing allow potatoes
to dry off on the surface for
half an hour, then put away in
a dark spot to prevent greening,
which makes them unfit as food.
A Shorthorn Record.
“Frank H.”: In the earliest
days of the Shorthorn im-
provers Amos Cruickshanks,
Colling Bros., Bates, Booth,
Duthie Webster and others —
Shorthorns were characterised
by enormous scale, induced by
an inheritance of rapid growth
which was accelerated by the
prolific milk-flow of their dams.
This characteristic still runs
through the leading families of
the Shorthorn breed. It is high-
lighted by a notable Shorthorn
matron, still in show condition
in Scotland, with a lifetime
record of 6500 gals. of milk at
3.87 p.c. test, at the time of her
seventh calving a few months
ago. She is Gainford Maud
22nd, bred by J. and R. Hall, of
Gainford Hall, Darlington
(Scotland), and derives from one
of the oldest Aberdeenshire
lines.
The Gainford family has left
its mark in the Shorthorn his-
tory of Australia. Gainford
Duchess sth, imported for Mil-
ton Park by Anthony Hordern
about 30 years ago, and Martha
sth will be remembered as
the two greatest females to
come to Australia. Gainford
Duchess sth was one of the
deepest, thickest and sturdiest
breeders in the Milton Park
foundation. She was never ex-
hibited, but her progeny won
numerous prizes.
Writing 25 years ago, the late
H. C. Carter, of Yarraman, one
of Australia’s leading Shorthorn
breeders and judges, said that
Shorthorn lovers would never
lose the vision of Martha sth
as she appeared in her prime,
her fashionable Bates’s head,
held high, attached by a grand
early-maturer’s neck, which
looked short in comparison with
the mountain of long-haired red-
roan body behind it. She was a
great milker, and of the type that
lifted the Shorthorn breed to its
high pedestal in the beef world.
Transplanting Natives.
“O’Shamus”: Native plants
can be brought to the home
garden and successfully grown
if care is taken when transplant-
ing from the bush.
Always select small, stocky
plants, preferably a few inches
high. Use a narrow, sharp spade
long in the blade. Dig widely
round the young plant. Do not
disturb the fibrous roots.
When lifted, wrap the ball of
soil in hessian or paper, careful
that the clod does not break.
Plant in a spot where soil has
not been manured. Give a good
soaking. If it’s a shrub, tie to
a stake and shade with a bushy
twig for a few days.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: Kikuyu-grass will
stand up to drier conditions and
poorer soils than paspalum (B.
30/7/’52). Paspalum gets in its
best growth on heavy, black,
well-watered soils, and is soon
in difficulties on light soils in a
dry spell. In its young state pas-
palum has (according to analysis
by Queensland Agriculture De-
partment) 20.6 per cent, of
crude protein, whereas young
kikuyu has 16.4 per cent, crude
protein. However, old paspalum
has only 4 per cent, of crude
protein against the 8.8 per cent,
of old kikuyu. Nevertheless,
kikuyu is more apt to get out
of hand and become a pest than
paspalum.
“M.”: Best time to cut
lucerne is when about 10 per
cent, of the stand is in bloom.
That’s when lucerne is putting
out fresh shoots at the crown
which will come on immediately
into second growth. If allowed
to mature, lucerne-hay will have
very few leaves (the best part of
the plant), and the stems will be
coarse and woody. At the other
extreme regular cutting before
flowering will shorten the life of
the stand.
“Billjim”: To make easy the
extraction of honey in cold
weather, warm the combs by
mixing two parts of honey to
one of water, making a warm
syrup at 100 deg. F. Smoke a
number of the hives to be ex- I
tracted, lift off the covers and
splash a cup of the warm syrup
over the combs in each hive.
Replace covers and let them
stand for half an hour before
extracting.
“Jonman”: Have a small
sheltered paddock kept exclu-
sively for the treatment of sick
animals and containing a loose-
box suitable for sheltering the
patients in bad weather. The
convenience of being able to
treat sick animals at any time,
ability to isolate them in case
of infection and a place where
they may make an unhurried
convalescence on pasture as
opposed to a dirt yard pays
dividends.
“C.A.A.”: Quality of rhubarb
depends on adequate feeding,
and most important time for the
application of fertiliser is Sep-
tember, when vigorous growth
can be expected. After remov-
ing withered stems and leaves
apply a double handful of
2:2:1 super, sulphate of
ammonia and potash, or similar
quantities of market-gardeners’
fertiliser, around each crown.
Then follow with a thick mulch
of compost or well-rotted stable
manure. Stop mildew by spray-
ing with 4:4:40 Bordeaux.


SIMPLEX 300 WATT
GENERATING SET
PRICE
£75
Weight
761 b s.
tur d y
battery-charging
and lighting set.
12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Gut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane
Queensland.
Born 1820—
still going strong.
&
\
/
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
It was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the little Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JW. 146.12
Commonwealth
op
of Australia
NATIONAL SERVICE
NOTICE TO HEM ATTAINING THE AGE Of 18 YEARS
BETWEEN Ist SEPT., and 31st DEC.. 1952
Under the National Service Acts 1951, all male persons, not
exempt under the Acts from liability to register, who are
British subjects and ordinarily resident in Australia and have
attained or will attain the age of 18 years between Ist Septem-
ber 1952, and 31st December, 1952 (both dates inclusive),
ARE REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN 15th AND 29th
SEPTEMBER, 1952.
A person who has arrived and intends to make his home in Australia is
regarded as ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival.
A person who is absent from Australia during the period within which he
is required to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
If a person required to register is insane or so mentally or physically
incapacitated as to be unable to register personally, the person in whose
charge he is for the time being must do so on his behalf.
W * l ° 30 ' S * ~
the penalties prescjdbed_undgr_the_Acts.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are: —
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Acts,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons or
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
EARLY REGISTRATION
If a male person of 17 years of age has good reason for wishing to
commence his National Service training without waiting until he is
to register, he may register voluntarily even though he is not 18. Further
details may be obtained from the National Service Registration Office or any
District Employment Office.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S.I) are available at all Money Order Port
Offices and District Employment Offices. Addresses of the latter ottlc
are in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are
in the Registration Form and the sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it.
VNSRS.B3.BJ
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
The Unattainable.
In years to come they’ll fabricate
a noiseless motor-bike,
A garbage-can with lid de-
signed to fit.
They’ll doubtless breed a flealess,
barkless, tradesnien-loving
tyke.
And pack dried figs entirely
free of grit.
Some day they’ll make a cracker
that won’t pulverise the
nut.
Evolve, perhaps, non-fish-
resistant bait.
They may, in time, remove the
squeak from cheaper foot-
wear, but
They’ll never bring bridge-
scorers up-to-date!
P. O. M. C.
“I have heard that flat beer is a
cure for something. Could you tell
me what it is?”
—Correspondent in women’s paper.
Yes —unwanted guests.
4 1 . •h . •
“ ‘Stars decrease m weight as
they get older,’ says a prominent
astronomer.”
This statement will raise a
hollow laugh from some ageing
Hollywood constellations.
"Dammit , We send young Bill west to make a man of ’ im.
Now 'e's a chorus-boy in Fremantle!"
The “Yellowrag’s" Sob Sister
Deputises for the Turf
Tipster.
Well, now, there are so many
horses that will be facing the
starter on Saturday and I know
you will all want to win—and
it would be just lovely to see you
all win, too, though that wouldn’t
be very nice for the poor book-
makers, would it? So I’ll tell
you all about each one, and what
/ think about its chances, and
then you can make up your
mind whether you will back, it
or not.
Zoofodder: This is a large
black horse carrying quite a lot
of weight, but then horses can
■ carry big weights, can’t they, be-
cause that’s what they’re here
for. It is owned by Mr. OTsaacs,
whose wife, a very smart dresser,
is often seen at society functions
in her beautiful mutation mink
coat Mr. OTsaacs’s colors are
cyclamen and a simply gorgeous
shade of blue-something be-
tween ice and del. A horse
carrying such a heavenly color-
combination simply shouldn’t
lose, and of course he won’t, pro-
vided his jockey can hit the front
early and keep him there right
up to the finishing-post. Still, I
believe black horses over three
years of age are unlucky, so it’s
one thing pulling against the
other as far as he is concerned.
Perhaps a both-ways bet would
be the best for him.
Spavind: I wasn’t a bit
impressed by this horse. I saw
him exercising the other morn-
ing, and he rolled his eyes and
gave me such a nasty look. His
mane had a rather crinkly look,
too, just like one of those cheap
perms. Besides, he won at his
last two starts, so it stands to
reason he can’t possibly keep on
winning indefinitely—it would
be quite against all the rules of
chance, wouldn’t it? And another
thing that convinced me he’d be
a very bad bet: His jockey has
those ears that stick out, and he
rides with a sort of hump on his
back.
Cranky Jack : Very obviqusly
they must have had a reason for
giving a horse such a name, and
he probably is very unreliable.
More than likely he would sulk
at the barrier or start eating the
grass half-way around the course.
In any case he was foaled in
August and that makes him a
Leo, and according to our
astrologer all those —and it prob-
ably includes horses, too —who
are under the influence of this
Zodiacal sign should beware of
accidents for the next week at
least. So it is quite likely that
the horse will fall over during the
race, or drop dead or something.
So it is certainly not likely to be
the winner.
Pegasus: What a funny
name to give a horse! But it
nevertheless must be given a
wonderful chance, because its
name begins with b-e-1-1, and a
bell is something- you ring, and
the ring is where the bookies
pay out. So it all points to him
finishing first, doesn’t it! And
the fact that he hasn’t run a
place in nine starts is most
encouraging, because he must
be due to have a win. And, of
course, he’ll be quite a good
price.
The Gargoyle: I do like this
horse’s chance. It will be ridden
by Billy Runt, who has such
nice brown eyes and fair wavy
hair and dinky sidelevers. I
know that the race is a mile and
a half, and that the horse has
never done any good over a mile,
but Billy has, quite often, and
anyway any horse ridden by
such a handsome jockey simply
must be among the leaders at
the finish.
Calamity Kate y This is a
lady horse and can’t be given
even an outsider’s chance of win-
ning; Nobody has ever heard of
a woman beating a man at run-
ning, and it stands to reason it
must be the same with race-
horses. They haven’t the same
strength as the bucks, have they?
Besides, this one is a chestnut,
and that’s a color that I detest,
and it clashes awfully with her
jockey’s yellow-and-pink bands.
Another thing, it looks so small
beside the topweight.
Pendant: This must be given
a second-to-none chance, and my
five shillings is certainly going on
it. I lost a rhinestone fob the
other night, and by a simply
marvellous piece of luck a friend
of mine who had been with me
when I bought it happened to
pick it up in the street, recog-
nised it as mine and returned it.
Wasn’t it wonderful? It’s
certainly too much of a coin-
cidence not to be a good tip, for
the fob was a pendant. I
haven’t the least doubt that the
good luck associated with the
name will continue on the course
on Saturday.
The Hatter: This horse is
owned by Mrs. Carraway Seyde,
who —and this is another strange
coincidence which should be
noted by punters —is very well
known around town for the ultra-
smart hats she wears. One she
was seen in last week was a
snappy little beige cloche with an
osprey feather which she was
wearing with a chic junior-navy
jacket-suit and pillar-box red
accessories. This seems as good
a tip as any punter could wish
for.
Schnozzle: This horse is by
Big Bugle out of Retrousse.
Jimmy Durante, who is my
favorite Hollywood star —I
think he has such a cute singing
voice—always seems to “get
there” by a nose, and this may
be the tip that Schnozzle will
do the same in Saturday’s race.
Belly band: This horse has
drawn No. 13 marble, his jockey
is wearing green silk, and his
owner , lost his black cat during
the week. It simply can’t be
given the ghost of a chance.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Banned Tug
The Howard Smith, a 500-ton, 2000-
h.p., 14-j-knot harbor tug—the most
powerful in Australian waters —is lying
in the Yarra in Melbourne rusting its
plates because J. Bird, the Communist
secretary of the Seamen’s Union, says
“No” to a manning crew.
This vessel cost about £200,000, is
modern by all world standards and
steamed out from Aberdeen this year. An
engineer and ship’s architect of the Vic-
torian Marine Board and an independent
opinion classified her as seaworthy and
satisfactory for the work she has to do.
The Seamen’s Union, however, wants her
converted from coal- to oil-burning so
firemen will not have to use a slice-bar
in an inconvenient position and with
inadequate space. Her stokehold isn’t big
enough, and there isn’t enough light and
air below for Australian seamen lying off
in their bunks between jobs.
Skylights must be put in to let in more
sunshine, and for’ard the ship must be
reconstructed to make a common-room
for officers and men. The common-room
must be big enough to prevent and
eliminate all danger of the dread claustro-
phobia of the bad days before Mr. Bird
took Australian “salts” under his Red
wing.
An electric winch must be provided
for easier handling of the towline. The
hard-headed capitalists won’t agree to
spend the £30,000 needed to do all this,
and are now considering selling the tug
out of Melbourne—where it is badly
needed—to a place where the crews are
not members of the Seamen’s Union, and
where misguided and shortsighted seamen
are willing to take the £3O or more a
week to be earned—this amount, of
course, including overtime, etc., essential
in the running and operating of tugs.—
F. G. S. (Vic.).
Profit-sharing
I wonder if farmers—who allegedly
find it so hard to obtain labor and even
harder to make it work — have ever
thought of trying profit-sharing. It has
been a success in secondary industry, so
who shouldn’t it work on the land? I
don’t suppose employees would consent
to share the losses, but, with the incentive
of profit-sharing, maybe there wouldn’t
be any bad years—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Ideas Not Wanted
Anyone who tries to introduce innova-
tions in Army training, or who makes
suggestions for improvement of equip-
ment, finds himself butting against a wall
of conservatism.
In 1942 I had three recruits on a rifle-
range who couldn’t hit the target at
100yds, I advised them to keep both
eyes open when aiming, and their shoot-
ing became up-to-average at once. That
same evening I was on the mat for teach-
ing things not in the training manuals.
Yet no less an authority than Lionel
Bibby, who can shoot a bit of chalk from
between an assistant’s fingers with a pistol,
and whose ability with a rifle is almost
uncanny, advises aiming with both eyes
open. It is also the method which hunters
have used since sights were invented.
In 1944 I advocated the replacement of
the standard Army pack with a rucksack
of the type used by skiers and bush-
walkers. It was turned down, but
about the same time the U.S. Army made
the rucksack standard infantry equipment.
No man who has used both would ever
go back to the old-style pack, especially
in a hot climate.
In the same year I made up a suit of
clothing for use in hot climates, whether
humid or desert. Officers who tried it
agreed that it was wonderfully comfort-
able, and a doctor said it would help to
avoid prickly-heat and dermatitis. In
Army eyes, however, the outfit “looked
awful.” Now the Americans, after field-
tests in the Colorado desert, have adopted
a similar rigout.
The greatest shortcoming is found in
the neglect to make training in bushcraft
“Are you having it built or pulled down?"
part of the course for all the armed forces.
1 started to advocate it in 1939, but not
until 1942 was I allowed to teach it. The
training is designed to show seamen,
soldiers and airmen how to fend for them-
selves in an emergency; it teaches to
civilised men the finding of food, water,
lighting of fires in wet weather, stalking,
use of birds as sentries and similar things
which used to be known by every
aboriginal child.
In 1942, near Three Springs (W.A.), a
young man became bushed and died of
thirst. Later, in the same area of scrub,
I showed one Army class after another
how to get water from the trees growing
there. Survivors of the Rabaul garrison
were found hiding—and starving—in a
patch of cassava, one of the world’s lead-
ing food plants. They had never been
taught how to recognise it or to prepare
food from its roots. An American airman
was found in a bad way from lack of
food on Cape York Peninsula. Close by
was a mangrove swamp full of edible
shellfish.
Contrast those with cases where men
had been given bushcraft training. In
1944 a bomber made a forced landing on
the eastern end of Rabaul, Later, the
crew turned up at the other end of the
island. They had managed to secure food
during their long jungle trek “because of
what we were taught by those fine bush-
men in the V.D.C. at Cairns.”
Now, according to the Press, no train-
ing in jungle-fighting is being given to the
C.M.F. It just seems to defy explanation,
particularly as the ultimate cost of this
sort of thing is always paid in human
lives. — H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Those Phone-books
“Hello” (B. 28 / 8/’52) apparently be-
lieves that the proposal to call tenders
for the delivery of telephone-directories
originated with the P.M.G. Department,
and that the factors governing the deci-
sion were reduction of costs and labor.
Nothing could be further from the facts.
The idea originated with the Australian
Postal Workers’ Union, the largest union
in the Commonwealth service. It has
been a hardy annual at the yearly federal
conference of that body for several years,
and each year the State secretary returns
with the glad tidings “Well, boys, this is
the last year you’ll be doing the direc-
tories.”
The A.P.W.U. considered that the
strain of delivering directories was too
great for the posties, although I know of
none who has broken down under the
load. Nor has a more economical or
effective method of distribution been
found.
The method of distribution is similar
to that with Christmas mails. Depart-
mental transport and a couple of efficient
officers drop bundles of 20 or 30 books
at selected points on the walk, to be
picked up later by the postie and distri-
buted. The whole of the August issue,
18,000 copies, was distributed in the city
(Perth) area in three days without over-
time.
It is very unlikely that better results
would be obtained by any system of
contract delivery. The P.M.G. would be
happy to go on with the present system,
but the unions call the tune.—D. C.
(W.A.).
Deposit on Homes
After the war thousands of ex-service-
men and munition- and other war-workers
had deferred pay, gratuities or savings
which they could use for deposits on
homes. That is now all over, and there
is a consequent slump in building.
Even with the current high wages there
is little left after ordinary living expenses
are met, and young people have small
hope of saving enough to provide for
deposits. Although the percentage of
advance has been increased, the cost of
homes and land has gone up so greatly
that the increased advance means nothing.
If these people rent a house (if one is
available) they know they must be pre-
pared to pay about £3 per week rent. If
they can buy a home on long terms they
are still prepared to pay that amount or
a little more to get a place of their own.
The solution I suggest, after a good
many years of practical experience as a
builder, is for the initial deposit to be
small enough to give the young people a
reasonable chance to save it. I think £5O
is the limit. Then the worker can have a
real chance of becoming a “little capi-
talist.”—F. G. S. (N.S.W.).
Adelaide’s Electricity
Until lately Adelaide bought its elec-
tric current from private enterprise,
which functioned efficiently and made a
profit. Then, under Socialist pressure,
the company was converted to a State
Trust, with the usual promises of cheaper
rates and better service to be secured by
elimination of shareholders’ dividends
and the thrice-cursed profit motive.
The new broom swept clean for a
start, but rising costs laugh at ideals, and
the new management is beset with the
same financial difficulties as its predeces-
sor, and hasn’t the same selfish incentive
to overcome them.
Under the old order accounts for
domestic current were collected at the
doorsteps of consumers. That suited
housewives, and should not have been
costly for the firm, as time and labor
involved were negligible compared with
the total sum collected. Under the new
order it has been decided that the con-
venience of the customer is secondary,
and, in the interests of economy, each and
every bill must now be paid at head
office.
So it is with all bureaucratic institu-
tions. They all begin with smooth
promises and all finish by showing who’s
boss. — Citizen (S.A.).
Free Social Service?
About 10 years ago the Federal Gov-
ernment drastically increased income-tax
by adding a social-service contribution to
the already war-inflated scale. The
social-service levy was explicity stated to
cover a free-medical scheme as well as
the customary pension benefits.
Only lately the medical benefits have
been granted in part, but at substantial
cost to the patient. Now there is talk of
compulsory insurance to provide
pensions.
In none of these transactions does the
taxpayer ever get back as much as he
put in, the bulk of the money going to
grossly inefficient administration. Isn’t
it about time a man was given his earn-
ings to provide for himself and his
family as he thinks fit? — Robert Howie
(W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 191
Across.
I—A1 —A sharp thrust is to be a Vic-
torian bowler talking fast and
unintelligibly. (9)
t y—Cloaks a number of monkeys and
geographical features. (5)
9 —Catherine by the surf gets sport-
ing equipment. (6-5)
11 — ’Ow to refer to an ’Oilywood
comedian in the open. (3)
12 — Begin a description of the dinner
suit I wore for dining? (8)
14 —Federal electorate with an
Oriental. (6)
16 —The Khan setback stones the
drama critic’s one by the en-
trances. (6)
18 —Monkeys with a famous stamp-
dealer, but whose was the decline
and fall? (7)
21 — b.c. 0 fuss. (3)
22 Bet a screw blushing. (7)
24—Make a butt of an artist in an
N.S.W. town. (5)
27 —Does better than ten fifties spelt
out for a Roman. (6)
29—Double four slightly spoilt the
rustling. (4-4)
32 — Bill usually accompanies this firm
duck. (3)
33 Time out of mind. (6, 5)
36 — Polish is not missing from this,
but it opens secretly. (5)
37 — Ornament the brickwork when
the Friar is placed to intercept
square-cuts. (9)
Down.
1— Fountain hand in a jacket. (6)
2 Stars squabble about this kissing.
(7)
3 Before. (3) »
4 Pronoun. (3)
5 The objective is to leave Capone
in gaol. (4)
6 Masticated hundred cut with an
axe. (5)
7 In favor of six and thus finishes
a rider. (7)
8 — Canonised Hemingway is most
severe. (8)
10 —Spanish city breaks the oar. (3)
13 —Bury an examination. (5)
15 —A guildhall giant is aroused and
excited. (4)
17 —Count who enjoyed cruelty,
although mournful over the East.
(4)
19 — Degree given to the second per-
son in a Louisiana lagoon. (5)
20 — A lucrative engagement for a
very nice policeman. (5, 3)
23 —Lizard-like barkers. (7)
25 — Previously I followed a member
of holy orders. (1, 6)
26 A luxurious tour at Government
expense helped to sustain Miss
Mullet. (6)
28 —Roman poet who was born in
Spain. (5)
30— Frank king has nothing to do.
(3)
31— McTax. (4)
34 Fruit trees are hard after this
whale. (3)
35 — Any mug is inferior to this
excuse for a November holiday
in Melbourne. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 190


7
17
0
Li
c\
.
r fr,
7
r
0))
■fccr
-
i
1
/
H
s
d*
r,
t 3;
/
2.
w
■ .-'.r
M
PP
/j
cr-
:
\
•* 7
rv
P,P
7
z/
iy
)}./
M
V
S
-Y
• ■
El
r--
X
■
- - *:4" • /■' 'wA
f %A
s s
I Jr
w
i
a?
ja.-
<
E \ 1
.
v . I "T
] 1 '' vX
'''' / '*y
/\N
■
.
/
I
J
-. ■ *
~■■■.. -
®ii
4
;p
:
V Vj
/
\(|
M
.
/
:
V
■ ap
- -■ -
\
fc
m
SS.
7;
MmwM:
## f •
ip Mi I if ti I
Vicars Worsteds are a wise invest-
ment. Year after year they retain
their quality and appearance.
VICARS
Fine Worsteds of Fine Wool
m
JOHN VICARS & CO. LIMITED, MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
