

I
*
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and aii celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppeit can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppeit & Sons Ltd.
wilt supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, GJP.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE; Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST,, BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
A COMPLETE NOVELETTE BY SEAFORTH MACKENZIE
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3794
Wednesday, October 29, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
AN ENGLISH MANOR HOUSE IS THE HOME OF THE GLYNDEBOURNE OPERA
GLYNDEBOURNE, known to music-lovers throughout the world as the
centre of the famous Mozart Festival, stands in a wooded parkland on the
rolling Sussex Downs, sixty miles from London. Nowhere else, can music of
such high artistic standard be enjoyed in such idyllic surroundings.
The present world-wide reputation of Glyndebourne is due entirely to the
efforts of Mr. John Christie, owner of the mellow red brick Tudor manor
house shown in the accompanying illustration. In 1924 he built a large
Organ Room adjoining his house, a room in which informal concerts were
given, at first for private parties and house guests, but later the week-end
concerts were thrown open to any local music-lover who cared to walk over
the Downs. At periodic intervals a few concert performances of minor operas
were also given in the Organ Room. It was from such small beginnings that
the reputation of Glyndebourne grew. As a frequent visitor to the great
opera houses of Europe, Mr, Christie conceived the idea of presenting opera
in England of the same or even higher standard. In 1934, therefore, he built
the Glyndebourne Festival Opera House and engaged three men, each of
whom had many years of operatic experience and the necessary vision to make
the somewhat ambitious idea a reality. From Germany came Fritz Busch,
eminent musician and brilliant conductor; Carl Ebert, one-time Director of
the Stadtsoper in Berlin; and Rudolf Bing, administrator, now Director of
the Metropolitan Opera in New York. Together they planned the first season,
engaged the finest singers in the world, and the Glyndebourne Opera was
launched.
How successful was the venture can be seen from the fact that, after the
second Festival, the Opera House had to be enlarged to accommodate six
hundred people. The stage has great depth, and is equipped with the most
modern apparatus. At the time the lighting system was installed it was
entirely revolutionary, and has since been adopted by several London theatres.
Many music-lovers assert that the Edinburgh Festival is incomplete without
the Glyndebourne Opera, whose unexcelled performances of Mozart and Verdi
in previous years have long remained in memory.


Learn
EffiEflSgailßlp
at homt:
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.’’
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kassell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
——“ CUT HEBE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S; Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age
The Red Page
H. L. MENCKEN
To look at a newspaper or writer from
the outside, and say “They printed this
because of that,” is a better way of going
wrong than backing horses ; and the great
value of William Manchester’s biography
of H, L. Mencken, The Sage of Baltimore
(Melrose), is that it explains a great deal
about Mencken’s private life and, for the
Australian reader unversed in American
affairs, about his public fife.
For instance, what happened to
Mencken and his “American Mercury’ ?
One had a hazy idea that he married ;
his wife died ; and everything went flop.
One story was that he was taking the
plate round in church. There was a feel-
ing that something connected with his
wife’s death had turned him suddenly
into a monk. Well, she died of menin-
gitis, with tuberculosis bacilli in the spinal
fluid. They had been married five years
-—-he was 50 and she was 30 when they
married —and certainly he was broken-
hearted. But the “Mercury”—his “Mer-
cury”—had broken up two years before
his wife’s death in 1935, and not because
of his marriage. The depression got it.
Mencken had been the Swift of the
post-war boom years ; his enemies had
been pretension and, as Gerald Johnson
points out in his introduction, American
worship of success. The depression
destroyed his butts ; even Prohibition left
him ; and, finding nothing to fill their
stomachs in his banquet of boobs, his
readers left him also.
Again, although he endowed philo-
sophy and criticism with a jazz-beat, he
had no sympathy with the jazz-age, or
with the wild life of the young college
students who made him one of their
gods. His pleasure, on Saturday nights,
was to play piano parts at “the club” in
Baltimore, among a group of musicians,
mostly of German descent, in quartets
and sextets, etc., by Brahms and Beet-
hoven, or in versions of the symphonies.
And although his capacity for beer seems
to have been, if anything, in excess of
his riotous praise of it, he was in the
habit, at the time he was laying the
foundations of his fame as a book-
reviewer (reviewing 2000 books in
six years for the New York magazine
“The Smart Set”), of writing 3000 words
a day for the Baltimore “Sun.”
Again, when Mencken sold a copy of
the “Mercury” in Boston after the issue
had been banned, it was by no means the
gay and irresponsible gesture celebrants
of its success made of it. He went to
Boston in grave trepidation, after taking
advice, and accompanied by lawyers,
two years’ jail and the loss of his paper
trembling in the balance ; and although
Mencken won the case, his opponent,
Chase, went on to the politicians,
and almost had the “Mercury” for-
bidden to the U.S. mails. It was
a very close thing, indeed. More-
over—and here is a further lesson for
those who consider that banning improves
sales —this whole campaign, in the opinion
of Mr. Manchester, did Mencken a lot
of harm.
There is also enlightenment on
Mencken’s hatred of “the professors.”
He was of German descent; his grand-
father came to America in 1848. In the
early part of World War I, H. L.
Mencken was a war-correspondent on the
German front. When America entered
the war he went back to America
still arguing the German cause. His
employers, although they respected his
sincerity, understandably would not let
him write for their paper. It was in
these times, when the heat of American
patriotism had burnt up his popularity,
that Professor Sherman attacked Menc-
ken’s literary criticism on the grounds
that it was German, Sherman’s attitude
was supported by Paul Elmer More and
Professor Irving Babbitt. Mencken, who
was not above hitting below the belt,
was as touchy as anyone when hit there
himself; and after the war, rising to the
peak of his wave of popularity, he
attacked all professors, again and again,
holding them up to the mockery of their
students, raising in this way a kind of
revolution in the universities.
Another very satisfying chapter of
Manchester’s book is “The Infidel
Scopes,” the story of Mencken’s part in
the Dayton “monkey-trial,” mainly
because it provides the background to
his most remarkable and most terrible
achievement in satire, the obituary on
Senator William Jennings Bryan. So
far as one knqws, it is at the top of its
class in literature. The fact that the
man was just dead must be taken into
account; one remembers sdeh phrases as*
“when his hair began to fall out, not as
other men’s, but obscenely, behind the
ears”—to write like that at such a time
is almost unknown to literature. Bryan
had died a few days after the conclusion
of the case, and Mencken was asked to
comment on the case. “Well,” he -said,
‘‘we killed the son-of-a-bitch.”
He has been compared, as a satirist,
with Swift; but he had not Swift’s logical
detachment and cold irony. Nor had he
the malignancy which constitutes “Junius”
the head of that department of satire,
for although he took the part, in the
essays on Bryan and in other places, his
sense of humor was too strong for him
to play it well. It was his exuberance
that marked him out; he was the satirist
of the greatest gusto of modern times,
comparable with no one. His prose was
strong, not by force of reasoning, but
by the force of its solid nouns and verbs ;
hardly a word but describes something
real, or does something; and there is
ample evidence throughout this work that
he had the love of the hunter for his
victim, and felt lost when, through his
efforts, the victim disappeared.
Towards the end of the twenty years’
peace Mencken’s popularity revived,
Readers were charmed by his memoirs
of his childhood and of his early days as
a reporter; they began to compare him
with Dr. Samuel Johnson because of his
The American Language. Then, at the
peak of this wave, he suffered a stroke,
regained the use of his paralysed side,
but lost for ever the faculties of reading
and writing.
In Shakspeare's Day
G. L. Hosking’s The Life and Times of
Edward Alleyn (Cape) has really very
little to say about Edward Alleyn—the
actor whom Shakspeare caricatured in
Ancient Pistol—but as a general picture
of Elizabethan and Jacobean times it is
as rich and delightful a book as you could
hope to come across : in which a singular
pleasure is meeting Shakspeare in person
from time to time as his name crops up
in file ordinary theatrical and business
transactions of the day—and very lively
those transactions were likely to be when
every poet, in Yeats’s phrase, “kept a
sword upstairs.”
There is, for instance, the founding of
the Globe Theatre. James Burbage, the
father of Richard and Cuthbert Burbage
(all actors ; Richard the most famous), had
a theatre on land owned by one Giles
Allen (no connection with Mr. Hosking’s
hero): —
After the death of James Burbage,
Cuthbert negotiated with Giles Allen for
a renewal of the lease of the theatre.
There was a clause which provided that if
the theatre was standing at the expiration
of the lease it became the property of the
ground landlord. So the policy of Giles
was to procrastinate. In 1598 he offered a
renewal on terms which he knew would
not be acceptable. He then went into the
country.
The Burbage brothers sensed his scheme
and decided to forestall him. They deter-
mined to build a new playhouse, using for
the purpose the “wood and timber” of the
theatre. But they needed capital.
From this need was evolved a .new
system of theatrical finance, to become
known as the “sharer” system. They in-
vited the principal members of then- com-
pany to put down part of the money
required. There were ten shares: Cuth-
bert and Richard had 2\ each, and the
remaining five were taken up, one each,
by William Shakspeare, Johm Heminge,
Augustine Phillips, Thomas Pope and
William Kemp. They then set about dis-
mantling the theatre.
Whether or not Shakspeare was actually
present at the ensuing brawl Mr. Hosking
is unable to say; but at least he could
not have been very far offstage:
What happened is told in Giles Allen’s
deposition in his suit against Cuthbert:
“The said Cuthbert Burbage and divers
other persons did about the eighth and
twentieth day of December in the one and
fortieth year of your highness reign....
riotously assemble themselves together,
and armed themselves with divers and
many unlawful and offensive weapons, as,
namely, swords, daggers, bills, axes and
such like; and so armed did then repair
unto the said Theatre, and there armed as
aforesaid, in very riotous, outrageous and
forcible manner... .attempted to pull
down the said Theatre forcibly arid
riotously resisting your subject’s servants
and farmers, but also then and them
pulling, breaking and throwing down the
said Theatre in very outrageous, violent
and riotous sort.
“They did then also in most forcible
and riotous manner take and carry away
from thence all the wood and timber
thereof into Bankside in the Parish of St.
Mary Overies, and there erected a new
playhouse with the said timber and wood.”
The new playhouse was the Globe.
We learn, providing a much more intel-
ligible basis for the Elizabethan drama
than the usually-accepted origin in the
religious morality- and mystery-plays, that
by 1557 plays had come to be staged in
the courtyards of inns. It cost a penny
to stand in the yard, and the stage was
nobly set upon beer-barrels. It was here
that Edward Alleyn began his career, for
his father kept a pub.
We learn that the first English comedy
was Udall’s “Ralph Roister Doister,”
borrowed from Terence. Udall had been
headmaster of Eton, but had been dis-
missed for another borrowing—of silver
images and plate from the college chapel.
We meet the problems which affected
the censorship of the period: on the one
hand that plays spread the plague and
attracted people from church; on the
other hand that when the theatres were
closed the bawdy-houses flourished.
There is Phillip Henslowe, the theatrical
entrepreneur with whom Edward Alleyn
was chiefly associated, generously lending
his money to actors in distress (as actors
usually are), and charging them 40-per
cent, interest. There is the playwright
Greene, notorious for his attack on Shak-
speare as ‘‘an upstart crow beautified with
our feathers that with his Tyger’s heart
wrapt in a Player’s hide supposes he is as
well able to bumbast out a blank verse as
the best of you.” Henry Chettle, Greene’s
friend, later apologised for this outburst
“because myself have seen his demeanour
no less civil than he is excellent in the
quality he professes”; and, civil or not,
Greene died in the most distressing
poverty: “On September 4, 1592, Harvey
‘went down to speak with Mrs. Isam, the
shoemaker’s wife, who told him of
Greene’s poverty and his miserable end;
how in his extremity he would beg a
penny pot of malmsey, and how none of
his old acquaintances came to comfort
him, except a certain Mistress Appleby,
mother of his bastard son Fortunatas.
Even Nash, a fellow-scribe who was his
companion at the fatal banquet of rhenish
and pickled herring, never after came
near him.’” , .
There is an account of the silver armor
in which Raleigh rode by the side of
Queen Elizabeth. There is information
about the prices for plays—the author
usually got £6, plus a “benefit” on the
second performance (if it ran so long).
Plays, as they had to be if the author
was to live on such pitiful returns, were
written very fast—“a play would be begun
and finished in two or three weeks.”
We meet Shakspeare again as one of
the syndicate of seven —Richard Burbage,
William Shakspeare, John Heminge,
Henry Condell, William Sly, Cuthbert
Burbage and Thomas Evans —who leased
the Blackfriars Theatre where Shak-
spbare’s later and best plays were first
performed. We learn that so great was
the freedom of the stage, despite
occasional bannings for reasons of
politics and the plague, that King James
himself used to be caricatured by the
actors, to the immense disgust of the
French Ambassador, who wrote: “Con-
sider for pity’s sake what must be the
state and condition of a prince whom.,..
the comedians of the metropolis bring
upon the stage and whose wife attends
these representations [caricaturing the
King’s uncouth speech, his intemperance,
his gusts of passion, his inordinate
devotion to the chase] in order to enjoy
the laugh against her husband.” Con-
sider, we might now rather say, how
much good-humor there must have been
in the maligned King James —himself a
poet, so able to tolerate the poet’s licence
in a way which few absolute monarchs,
dictators or even politicians have since
been able to match.
Well, there is Ben Jonson killing an
actor in a duel; the Globe getting burnt
to the ground during the first performance
of Shakspeare’s “Henry VIII” when a
discharge of cannons set the thatch alight,
destroying the theatre but causing no
other damage except to a spectator who
had his breeches set on fire in a-way “that
would perhaps have broiled him if he had
not, by the benefit of a provident wit, put
it out with a bottle of ale” ; there is King
James’s firm belief in the naughty and
mischievous pranks of witches ; there are
some amazing scenes of animal-baiting at
James’s Court, notably when bulldogs
were set at a lion, who killed a couple of
them and then, when two others fell to
fighting each other, skipped over the
quarrelling pair and contemptuously
retreated to his cage . . . there is all this
fascinating material, but where is Edward
Alleyn?
Mr. Hosting seems to have unearthed
full information on the actor’s financial
affairs, theatrical and domestic, so he can
quote quite a lot of interesting arithmetic
about him ; but of more intimate material
there is apparently little available. Dimly,
Alleyn does appear from time to time ;
often as an afterthought in parentheses ;
but about the only time we really see
him as a human being is in a couple of
love-letters to his wife ; and very lovely
things they are, too:
My good sweet mouse, I commend me
heartily to you, and to my father, my
mother, and my sister Bess, hoping in
God, though the sickness be round about
you, yet by his mercy it may escape our
house, which by the grace of God it shall.
Therefore use this course: Keep your
house fair and clean, which I know you
will, and eVery evening throw water before
your door, and have in your windows
good store of rue and herb of grace,
withal and the grace of God, which must
be obtained by prayers; and so doing, no
doubt but the Lord will mercifully defend
you.
Mouse, you send me no news of any-
thing; you should send of your domestic
matters, such things as happen at home, as
how your distilled water proves, or this or
that, or anything what you will. And,
Jug, I pray you, let my orange tawny
stockings of wool be dyed a very good
black against I come home, to wear in the
winter. You sent me not a word of my
garden, but next time you will; but
remember this in any case, that all that
bed which was parsley, in the month of
September you sow it with spinage, for
then is the time. I would do it myself
15ut we shall not come home till All-
Hailows-tide. And so sweet mouse fare-
well, and brook our long journey with
patience.
Mr. Hosking’s book is written in part
for old-boys of the College of God’s Gift
at Dulwich, which Alleyn founded. These
chapters are likely to be of special interest
to remarkably few Australian readers;
but we are all, in a sense, old-boys of the
great age of the Elizabethan drama, and
that is really what the book is all about.
Reviewed Briefly
T’ao the Hermit, Sixty Poems by T’ao
Ch’ien: translated by William Acker
(Thames and Hudson), Graceful and
scholarly English versions of some of the
works of one of China’s most famous
poets. With the aid of a delightful bio-
graphical rote and a brief account of
historical background, T’ao, who lived
from a.d. 365-427, emerges through his
poetry as a memorable poetic figure. He
appears to have been a sort of celestial
■philosopher-bohemian, a practitioner of
art-for-art’s sake and a gentle, although
»at times annoying, alcoholic. His poems
are an enchanting blend of a genial kind
of hedonism, appreciation of the soil and
its husbandry, and of the literary heritage
of his civilisation. A word of praise is
due to the designer of the dustcover.
Readers of Chinese will probably know,
from the characters reproduced there,
whether the beautifully-drawn old gentle-
man is the poet himself: one likes to
imagine it is. C y r -
* ♦ ♦ *
Sir Henry Wigram: L. M. Noble
(Whitcorabe and Tombs, Ltd.). Wigram
was bom in London in 1857, came to
New Zealand in 1883, engaged in busi-
ness life in Christchurch, was a member
of the Legislative Council and became a
pioneer of aviation in the Dominion,
both civil and military—he was primarily
responsible for the Aero Club movement,
and the establishment of Wigram Aero-
drome as the main training-centre of the
R.N.Z.A.F. also stemmed from his
efforts. Mr. Noble’s biography, which
was originally written as a thesis for
an M.A., is somewhat cold and mathe-
matical, dealing with public activities
rather than the man as he lived, but it
is a useful record of facts, and will doubt-
less be read with interest in aviation-
circles. V .
* * * *
Stuka Pilot: Hans Rudel (Euphorion).
There can be no doubt of the courage
of a Stuka pilot who flies 2530 sorties,
kills over 4QO Russian tanks and wins
so many German medals that Adolf, in
the end, has a new one invented for him.
There can be considerable doubt about
the flap’s claim that “Rudel is the leading
war pilot of the world” —he having met
no fighter pilots of the R.A.F., all of his
flying being done against the Russians.
When Rudel is not describing his diving
—which he does very well, particularly
that dive which resulted in a Russian
battleship being blown in half—he is
filled with a naive surprise that the
Western Allies are supplying the Russians
with tanks and vehicles wherewith to
accomplish the downfall of the “freedom-
defending” Reich. He has many stones
of Russian savagery but nothing of the
gentle arts practised in his own Belsen
and Buchenwald. Group - Captain
Douglas Bader, the famous British ace,
has written a cautions foreword.


*>;| "T
m u
■ ' ■-
n i
• . : '
■■■ liStet • • ‘/ ■ ~ WJ.
! i M-'
■Pt
If
H
Wji
m'-
m
mm
m
>A ,P'
. >■
. .
S 2
to
“t- £
f
''TH;
r
B
' *• / ' ;
*'
m
If
■r *
3‘ ■•*•,.: ■ ?!®
.
m
-4
# -•*
■5:
- ~ :
5
i -I i -;
m
<0
»
n«P’
-5
m
to.
4;
a
8
V:
K
fM
,*'l
*/ -
&
•ij- j r
idi
'.{-■
a
ar
V
id
te
m
**
m
X
1
- - 5
i
*
{£■ %
r^s
If
"
r
■x
m
p®
.4
&
H
141
li
X
mm
& &
I &
: $> v :
You, too, can hang your own wall-
papers! -Write for our free booklet
on wallpapering. And also samples.
We’ll send them to you immedia-
tely. Write now!
Let the magic of Imported English wallpapers give beauty and colour to every
room In your home. You can make
WONDERWORK
WITH WALLPAPER!
It's not so expensive to decorate your home this easy way! Our free booklet on
wallpapering is so simple to follow it almost does the work for you. Wallpaper our
easy way, save money and effort, create beauty in your home.
m
V //
■
■'
ST . V*. t**
f , ?*. : '\ £f '
Floral wallpaper with a
trellis pattern. Wonder-
ful in bedrooms. Priced
from only 7/- per roll.
l s h?
:
/4v " Siii;
Plastic finish wallpaper,
with soft pastel designs.
Priced from 16/- per roll.
m
W-
ITT
V s .■*:{ ,
m
mmm
m
• f
■* 4
Cmi&m
'j&gi
-•••■
&
T-' A
« m
■ ■ '
351
mr.
m
mb*
v w*
ac
Textured Cream wall-
paper in attractive self col-
oured designs. Attractively
priced from 10/- per roll.
V)
Floral wallpaper with a
coloured ground. For liv-
ing rooms. From 7/- roll.
f
0.
... >
Wv wi
. ♦ .SSKEW*
Delicate floral pattern on-
spotted ground. Priced
from only 7/- per roll.
>r t r
m
Si
RE
si
I
m
iliiip
m
> V 1
m
I Hi
■
Textured Cream wallpaper
with coloured or self-col-
oured grounds. Priced at
from only 10/- per roll.
> —
fwa/.""]
m
£
t
■
mmmi\
£•' #/ -/-^;
■
* ■
zJU
Florals in plastic finished
paper. Spotted grounds.
From only 16/- per roll.
■ ■
.
' >
a
mm.
9
Vf
:
I
m
Striped wallpaper, satin
finish. From 11 /- roll.
A
Jk
■ '
- wwsaae
Nursery wallpaper, keenly
priced from 11/- per roll.
m
Glacier paper, 18in. wide.
Priced at 2/6 per yard.
CITY CUSTOMERS, TAKE BLUE AND YELLOW BUSES TO ANTHONY HORDERNS', FARE 4d.
DBB
Jill }
til T liflM'l ? iTOliilt.l
WALLPAPERS, THIRD FLOOR, ATOP ESCALATORS. BOX 2712, G.P.O. PHONE M 2401


November 1, a notable anniversary
The Anzacs
Sail
By
W. A. CARNE
# November 1 is the anniversary of the date the original Anzac convoy
sailed in 1914 from King George’s Sound (W.A.). The Anzac Fellowship
strives to keep the memory of that event alive by various means, this year
including an essay competition, won by a former lieutenant of the old 6th
Machine-gun Company (Vickers). This is a condensation of his essay:
THE war of 1914-18 fell upon the
British and Australian peoples as
a bolt out of a clear sky. But from
the first the nature of the reaction,
there and here, was a foregone conclu-
si°n.
At the time of the crisis a Federal
election was in progress, but the matter
of Australia’s participation in the impend-
ing conflict transcended party politics,
Both parties gave it their unequivocal
support.
In a statement that has become historic,
Andrew Fisher, leader of the Federal
Opposition, declared that “Should the
worst happen after everything has been
done that honor will permit, Australia
will stand beside the Mother Country to
help and defend her to our last man
and our last shilling.”
Words were soon translated into action,
Actually before the declaration of war
on Germany by the British Government
the Australian Government offered to
place the vessels of the Australian Navy
under the control of the Admiralty and
to dispatch an expeditionary force of
20,000 men of any suggested composition
desired by the Home Government and to
be at that Government’s disposal. The
cost of dispatch and maintenance was to
be borne by the Australian Government.
This prompt offer was published in the
British Press on August 4, before the
declaration of war.
With Britain at war, fulfilment of the
offer became our Priority No. 1, Fortu-
nately Australia possessed in William
Throsby Bridges, Inspector-General of
the Australian Forces, a man peculiarly
fitted for the task, qualified by training,
outlook and foresight. Mainly through
his efforts the Australian offer was
crystallised into complete units that could
go into action and fight as such. Bridges’s
foresight extended to the title of the force.
“I want a name,” said he, “that will
sound well when they call us by our
initials.” With characteristic aptness he
chose one proposed by himself ; “The
Australian Imperial Force.”
The formation of a division and its
dispatch oversea was then a colossal task
for Australia. Hitherto no provision for
such a formation existed. Indeed, Britain
herself in modem times had not sent
an organised division oversea. Neverthe-
less, Australia’s offer was translated into
a concrete form in a few weeks.
Transports had been fitted and
assembled, and embarkation proceeded.
But fresh problems arose. New Zealand
had also raised a force for dispatch over-
seas and it had been planned that the
Dominion transports should assemble in
Australian waters, to form part of one
convoy. For a time, too, the presence
of the heavy German cruisers Gneisenau
and Scharnhorst in the Pacific delayed
proceedings, so it was late in October
that the transports began to assemble in
King George’s Sound (W.A.), the
assembly including 10 ships with the
New Zealand contingent. m
At last all was ready. On November
1 the large convoy of 36 transports moved
out of the harbor and headed west. A
fine day and a gently heaving sea pro-
vided a perfect setting. To passengers
on an east-bound inter-State steamer it
was a splendid, thrilling and unforgettable
spectacle.
Two days later the armada was joined
by the great liners Ascanius and Medic
carrying troops from South and West
Australia, The guardian Australian
cruisers Melbourne and Sydney were
joined by the Japanese cruiser Ibuki, and
the united convoy proceeded on its way
across the Indian Ocean. Such a voyage
had never been undertaken before.
Of necessity, the pace was set by the
Southern, which could not manage more
than about 10 knots. For a time there
was danger from the German cruiser
Emden, which had been raiding traffic
in the Bay of Bengal.
What a target for its enterprising com-
mander, Captain von Muller! (He has
been described as a gaunt, big-boned
sailor, more like an Englishman than a
German.) On the morning of November
9 convoy and cruiser were only 55 miles
apart. But Muller landed a party to
destroy the cable station on Direction
Island, in the Cocos group. That led to
his undoing. A warning message from
the wireless station, picked up by the
convoy, led to the dispatch of the Sydney,
which, after a short engagement, signalled
“Emden beached and done for.”
Without further incident the armada
moved on, passing through the Suez
Canal. The New Zealand ships and
some of the Australian convoy began to
enter Alexandria on December 3. Fate
decreed it to be the end of the sea
journey. 1#
In England, in winter conditions, the
authorities were struggling with the prob-
lem of accommodation for hundreds of
thousands of volunteers. Hence the
decision to divert the Australian-N.Z.
contingent to Egypt.
There, in the land of the Pharaohs and
in the shadow of the pyramids, the force
assembled in camps at Mena and Maadi.
Followed four months of exceedingly
strenuous training. Reorganised and
trained as a division, the new force came
to know itself. Here grew up that first
feeling of esprit de corps that was to
become a living and potent spirit, making
the Australian-N.Z, Forces overseas such
splendid fighting units.
When its four months of training ended
the view was expressed by an officer
newly-arrived from England that “General
Bridges’s division was at least as well
trained as any regular division before
the war.” From another British officer
came the testimony that “a better divi-
sion than the First Australian had never
gone to battle.”
The strategical conduct of the war, as
it happened, provided a unique stage for
the entry of the Anzac Corps (with
arrivals close on its heels, the original
contingent had already grown to that
strength; the training going on at Mena,
Maadi and Heliopolis). To aid Russia
and to impress the Balkan States, the
Allies planned an attack on Turkey, to
open the Dardanelles.
Thus, as dawn began to lighten the
eastern sky on Sunday morning, April
25, 1915, and while the 29th British
Division landed on the southern tip of
the Gallipoli Peninsula, the Anzac Corps
made good a landing just north of Gaba
Tepe, a spot now immortalised by the
name of Anzac.
It is impossible to tell adequately of
the Landing here ; the scramble up those
steep scrubby hillsides, the close fighting
with a determined enemy on his own
ground or how the resolution and dash
of that untried force almost carried it to
the completion of its initial task, the
capture of the dominating ridge of the
Peninsula.
From their footing the attackers were
never dislodged, but repeated efforts to
extend it gained little ground. To the
conflict with the foe were added the trials
arising from inadequate food, shortage
of water, heat, flies and ultimately the
blizzard in November. “A glorious
failure” might be said of the whole of
the Gallipoli campaign, and that descrip-
tion fits the effort at Anzac.
No one, least of all an Australian, can
read the account of the epic struggles at
Anzac, so nobly recorded by the Official
Historian, without a stirring of the blood
and a profound admiration of those
youthful crusaders who gave so lavishly
of labor and life. The Landing focused
the attention of the world on those barren
hillsides when the first accounts were
published.
In a brilliant story in the English Press,
Ashmead Bartlett declared that the attack
was made by “a race of athletes.” John
Masefield, now Poet Laureate, wrote:
No such body of free men have given so
heroically since our history began The
Australian and New Zealand Army Corps
and the Royal Naval Division, who together
made up more than half the Army, were
almost all men who had enlisted since the
declaration of war, and had had not more
than six months’ active training. They
were, however, the finest body of young men
ever brought together in modern times. For
physical beauty and nobility of bearing they
surpassed any men I have ever seen; they
walked and looked like the kings in old
poems, and reminded me of the fine in
Shakspea're:
“Baited like eagles having lately bathed.”
As all the world knows, the heroic
efforts at Anzac and the remainder of
Gallipoli could not achieve their objec-
STORIES
4 ‘Scamper-V amper”
r Clive Barry, the young Australian
master of linguistic fireworks, tells
of the double-cross of a King’s Cross
estate-agent. Scene: Sydney and
the North Shore beaches.
One of next week’s Bulletin short
stories.
tive. At Anzac, a well-planned and -exe-
cuted withdrawal was effected without
loss, the final act taking place on the
morning of December 19, eight months
after the Landing.
The cost to Australia was 26,094 men
and to New Zealand 7571, including killed
(Australia, 7594; New Zealand 2431).
Numerically it may be said that the First
Contingent was expended in the Gallipoli
campaign. Many, of course, survived, to
be joined by their comrades returning
from wounds and sickness —to help form
a greatly enlarged A.I.F. and to carry on
the Anzac spirit in the Holy Land and
on the battlefields of Europe.
In Australia the ultimate effect of the
dispatch of the Anzacs was profound and
epoch-making. Only 12 years had
elapsed since the real work of our Federa-
tion of Australian colonies had begun.
When the war came the old conditions
and divisions were still lingering, but those
who fought and came back found an
Australia in which those things had been
swept away by the common and united
interest of all Australia in the fate aad
deeds of its fighting men.
Doing a Crossword
‘ ‘ | HANKS, Joan, thanks. Barb.
Gosh, that was a good set.
I We’ll get our revenge later.
I’ll be glad of a rest, though.
What are you doing, Joan?”
“Having a crack at this crossword
in the paper.”
“Oh, goody! Well all have a go,
then. Let’s see . . . What’s that one
there, Joan, number three across?”
“A word in five letters meaning
‘precarious’.”
“In five letters? Gosh, that’s a
hard one for a start. I don’t even
know what ‘precarious’ means—in
fact, I don’t think I know any words
ending in ‘arious.’ Oh, yes—Sagit-
tarius . You see it in the astrology
column. I know it because it’s my
zodiacal sign.”
“It’s mine, too. Just fancy! There
was a warning in Sunday’s paper that
aspects weren’t good for”
“Have you got any clues about that
‘precarious’, Joan?”
“What’s the good, if we don’t
know what it means?”
“Well, we might fluke it, mightn’t
we?”
“It ends in i-s-k-y, I think.”
“Perhaps it’s ‘frisky.’ Thel, do yon
know if ‘precarious’ means being
full of beans and all that?”
“I wouldn’t know. I’m never full
of beans. I’m always half-dead when
I drag myself out of bed, and I stay
like that till I flop into it at night.
It’s terrible.” "
“Do you know, Edna?”
“Search me. Anyway, ‘frisky’ is
no good, it’s a letter too many.”
“Oh, well, let’s skip that and get
on to something else. What’s that
number eighteen down?”
“Something in six letters meaning
shortsighted. I think it ends' with
o-p-i-c.”
“No, Joan, it would be o-p-t-i-c,
because that means eye. I know,
because I used to work in a place
that imported optical lenses.”
“But ‘optic’ has only five letters.
This one has six.”
“Oh, well, there must be a word
like optic with one letter in front of
it.” *
“I know —Coptic.”
“Good on you, Barb.”
“But that’s a religion or a language
or isn’t it?”
“Don’t know. Sounds more like
a toothpaste to me. Anyway, put it
down, Joan. It might be it. Now
what is number thirteen across?”
“Oh, we won’t do that one. It
may be unlucky. One of us might
break a leg running after the ball.”
“That’s right. Well, what about
fourteen across?”
“It’s a word in nine letters meaning
‘plant’.”
“I know —‘rhubarb’.”
“But that only has seven letters,
Thel. And anyway, this one starts
with ‘e-q-u-i’ and fihishes with an
‘n’ and a ‘t.’ I know it’s ‘t’ because
it’s the first letter of a word in three
letters of a man’s name ending in
‘m,’ so it must be ‘Tom’.”
“But there’s plenty of men’s names
ending in ‘m’—there’s Jim and Tim
and Sam, and there’s Kim and Clem
and Malcolm and William and
Gee! Did you see that? Helen got
a first service in. Save me, someone!
She must have been getting in some
practice in the backyard.”
“Well, this ‘plant’ thing—it’s prob-
ably a shrub. Let’s see —a shrub
starting with ‘e.’ I know
eupatorium! You know, that one
with the big mauve flowers and big
leaves. Mavis McLean has one
growing in her front —she grew it
from a slip, too,”
“She would. You wouldn’t catch
Mavis buying anything from a
nursery . . . Whacko! A love game
to Pat and Helen, Isn’t Susan’s back-
hand woeful!”
“Thel, that plant mightn’t be any-
thing you grow. It could mean like
when your husband ‘plants’ a couple
of bottles in the woodshed so you
won’t find them.”
“Yes, but what’s another name for
it? I know —‘hides’!”
“But that doesn’t start with an
*e’.”
“Gosh, neither it does.”
“And it could mean machinery,
like they use in a factory.”
“Well, why don’t they make it
plain what sort of a plant they
mean? It isn’t fair! It’s just put in
to trick you. What’s that number
seven down, Joan?”
“A word in three letters meaning
‘foul’.”
“That’s easy—‘hen’.”
“No, Barb —this has a V in it.
‘F-0.-U-I’.”
“Oh! Well, what about ‘awful’?
You speak of ‘foul’ weather, awful
weather.”
“But it’s in three letters. The
second one’s ‘a’.”
“Oh, gee, they’re hard to get out,
aren’t they? Just take a look at the
way Susan’s holding her racquet for
a backhand drive, will you! Just
like you hold a knitting-needle.
What was I saying? Oh, yes. This
word for ‘foul.’ Why don’t they make
’em easier? They must think we’re
all professors or something.”
“What about ‘sad’? If you’re sad
you feel foul —I know 7 do.”
“No, it can’t be that. I think the
first letter’s a ‘b’.”
“Let’s see. It’s a word in three
letters starting with ‘b-a-’ and it
means ‘foul.’ There’s b-a-a ; that’s
no good ; b-a-b, b-a-c— they’re no
good * ‘b-a-d’ — bad, that’s it!”
“Good on you, Thel! Gee, you’re
a wizard. You ought to be on one
of those radio brain-trust sessions!”
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 29, 1952
Vol. 73—No, 3794
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
♦
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings\opposite G.P.0.), Wellington .
THE U.N.O. FARCE
This term’s meeting of the U.N.O. Assembly is in its
rnulti-million-dollar new building in New York ; Reuter
icported less than a week after the sittings began
that “most diplomats here feel that the session is
already a failure.”
Mr. Acheson, the U.S. Secretary of State, rose and
announced that it is in Korea that “our whole struc-
ture of collective security is meeting the test,” and
that there aggression had been stopped—incidentally
at the cost of 350,000 U.N.O. and South Korean
casualties but that “despite the patient and sincere
effort of U.N. negotiators,” the Communists had so-,
far rejected reasonable terms for an armistice.
He informed his hearers that the chief lesson in
the field of collective security was that “the solidarity
of the nations supporting the charter was absolutely
essential,” the alternative being “the disintegration
of the United Nations and the triumph of lawlessness,”
Solidarity among the teeming nations of U.N.O.
is limited to half a dozen work-horses. The rest are
either on the side of disruption and aggression or
content to live in both worlds. And if, as Mr. Acheson
remarked, the whole structure of collective security
will “stand or fall by what happens in Korea,” the
position seems to be that one of the most powerful
nations pledged to its maintenance, and all that
nation’s satellites, including China, eagerly desire
to see it fall. They represent what Mr. Acheson
as “the aggressor defying the United
Nations,” not only on the Asian front and in every
country where the cold war exhibits its symptoms
but in the Assembly itself, where “the question of
disarmament has been deadlocked for five years,”
The complaint that disarmament “cannot be
achieved unilaterally and By a battle of epithets” is
proved even more by facts as they exist at the U.N.O.
meeting this year ; for the only result of the operations
of U.N.O.’s members in the cause of “peace” in 1952
has been a steady ballooning of armaments, aggressive
and protective, and an equally imposing increase in
the list of international quarrels.
As the meeting began, Persia, which provided the
Assembly’s president last year, was threatening the
immediate break-off of diplomatic relationships with
Great Britain, her ancient friend and defender; the
war was flaring up in Indo-China ; and Russia had
demanded the recall of the United States Ambassador.
Most European countries came to the meeting fresir
from the largest military and defensive exercises held
since World War 11, and General Eisenhower, only
recently Commander-in-Chief of Nato forces in the
West, was uttering, while Mr. Acheson was actually
speaking, a call for “unity among the world’s free
nations to defeat Russia’s plan for world domination”
which he said Moscow hoped to forward by “capi-
talising the resentments of the British and French
against the so-called domination of the United States.”
After Mr. Acheson’s speech the proceedings ran
their usual main course, punctuated by the normal
interludes, including the customary Indian resolutions
to interfere with South African internal affairs which
have been a regular feature of the programme, and
which, it was good to see, Mr, Casey opposed.
Poland, a Russian satellite, came forward with a
“peace” resolution dealing with Korea which embodied
the stale demand for the forced repatriation of all
p.-0.-w. against their will or not, which has been
rejected again and again by the U.N.O. negotiators. It
also embodied the equally hackneyed Moscow proposal
for an all-round cut in armaments of one-third, a little
propaganda against the atom-bomb and the alleged
U.S. germ-warfare on the Chinese.
Mr. Vishinsky, of course, attacked the Western
Powers for their defensive arming, as “trying to create
a war psychosis.” Virtually all he said had been
said before, and Mr. Casey fitted himself into the
pattern exactly as last year, and took after Mr.
Vishinsky like a terrier and with about as much effect
as a terrier’s attack always has on a rogue elephant.
U.N.O. is certainly original in its structure and
methods. A world body in which one of the largest
members, holding the power of veto, is allowed to
retain its membership while openly flouting every
ideal, principle and decision of the majority is like
something the Mad Hatter might have invented. And
the position looks even madder in the light of the
budget of U.N.0., to which, among 58 nations, Aus
tralia with its little population is the seventh-largest
contributor. The U.S.S.R. —the mighty U.S.S.R.,
“peace-loving and generous”—weighs in with only
"C/r£DIT
S//F£ATfOfil
HIS BROKEN TOY
6.98 p.c. of the total expenses, against the 11.37 p.c.
provided by the little U.K. with one-fifth of the Soviet
Union’s population, and nearly 38 p.c. subscribed by
the United States.
Ghost at the "Labor" Feast
After Flinders the intriguing question is: What would
“Labor” do if the Flinders vote could have placed
it in power at Canberra? For of constructive policy
neither Dr. Evatt nor any of his stump-orators have
given any hint.
They have condemned credit-restrictions imposed
to combat inflated prices, taxation levies to meet
defence obligations (including the Korean war) and
vastly increased social services, and a Budget surplus
applied to make up for insufficient loan subscrip-
tions in an effort to keep down loan interest-rates.
There is nothing in all this that the late leader of the
“Labor” Government of 1946-49 did not advocate
with all his obstinacy of conviction.
During the last week of the Flinders by-election
there was published by Melbourne University Press
a book of 400 pages. Things Worth Fighting For,
being a symposium of speeches as Prime Minister
(and a few subsequently) by the late J. B. Chifley—-
the selection of them approved by himself. Mr.
Chifley had an enduring suspicion that the era of
overfull employment based on the post-war world
shortage of consumer commodities —with Germany
and Japan, too, out of production —was too good
to last. He certainly rejected Dr. Evatt’s current
propaganda that it could be maintained on bank-credits
alone, especially in face of persistent inflation.
In a national broadcast on January 1 last Mr.
Menzies pledged his Government to conduct the battle
against inflation as his Government’s main business
this year, and to accept any resultant unpopularity
in a good cause. He said:
Some people may think the Government’s financial
steps harsh and uncomfortable, but they are not as
harsh and uncomfortable as the misery and hitter
injustice which would come from financial disaster
if this fight against inflation cannot be won.
To which Dr. Evatt later in the same month, moving
a censure motion in Parliament against these
emergency measures, retorted:
Our faith in our country can and should he
limitless. Financial difficulties should not alarm us.
We must show our faith by finding money for repro-
ductive national policy. Inflation is still a major
problem, but so-called checks to inflation are attended
by dangerous economic and social consequences.
And he urged, and has urged ever since, “expanded
credit” to defeat inflation and restore stability!
Therein the leader whom Dr. Evatt hailed as
master while alive is now completely rejected. Here
are the late J. B. Chifley’s financial precepts, as
enunciated during his years of office:
I will never make a recommendation to lift any
form of control, despite clamors from the community.
Tinless I believe it is the best thing to do in the
interests of the country. You cannot run social
services on a wide range unless somebody pays for
them. You cannot run them on bank credit. (1946.)
We all know that industrial bitterness exists.
The charge is that a great deal of industrial unrest
and inability to cure the economic and industrial ills
can be laid entirely at the door of the Government.
It is as well to make clear that, strive as you may to
meet the situation, you cannot remove psychological
influences in a day. (Reply to censure motion. Parlia-
ment, February, 1947.)
In [criticisms during] this Budget debate
inflation has not been mentioned once in relation to
the Government’s financial p01icy....! have always
stressed the disastrous results which can overtake
the people, particularly the workers, if the Govern-
ment is unable to control inflationary movements
I warn every member, “Labor” or of the Opposition,
that we could destroy all stabilisation schemes... .if
we were to relax efforts to keep down the cost of
living. until there are in the community ample goods
to meet demand. (Parliament, September, 1945.)
It is an illusion that social welfare and other
benefits can be had by some easy method of finance.
They must be paid for by taxation either direct or
indirect... .We have aimed to reduce taxation and
have done so, but not at any stage before financial
conditions warranted the step. We have aimed to
lift standards of social benefit, but not before the
resources were in sight. (Budget speech, September,
1948.)
For three years before he left office the advance
of inflation had made Mr. Chifley very uneasy;
Local production has increased, though not as fast
as necessary in basic industries. No possible rate of
increase in supply, however, could have kept pace
with the rise of nearly 50 per cent, in national income
during the past two years. The Government is
encouraging restraint in spending by individuals
and organisations throughout the whole community.
(Financial statement, February, 1949.)
Defeated at the elections in late 1949, after his
Government had failed to arouse the necessary public
co-operation, Mr. Chifley handed over the task to
Mr. Menzies with these words:
I shall express the view of the “Labor” party,
and in doing so I shall not be in the least concerned
about what people think of it politically... .Australia
will not win the struggle against inflation by adopt-
ing XTiffling measures... .Neither this [Menzies] Gov-
ernment nor any other Government can be blamed
for the Inflationary elements. Upon measures which I
believe should be taken every man in public life who
has a sense of responsibility must give serious con-
sideration to the country’s honor, economy, prestige
and standing abroad. I hope the Government will do
something to correct the disturbed economy whether
such action be popular or unpopular. (Supply Bill,
Parliament, October, 1950.)
The duty of the Menzies Government, while stick-
ing to the job to which it has pledged itself, is to
put Mr, Chifley’s contemptible successors to the test
of disclosing whether they have any policy at all
except unlimited “creation of credit,” and how they
would peg prices when they have reduced the pound-
note to no value whatever.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The National University
The inauguration of the National Uni-
versity at Canberra as a formal entity,
through the installation of its first Chan-
cellor, was an event which had all too
little public attention. But in view of
the increasing part which science plays
in everyday life, the organisation of
such a body as has begun to function
at Canberra marks one of the great
steps in the history of the Common-
wealth.
Almost all modern progress which is
not purely mechanical development stems
from the universities, and more particu-
larly from the older ones, which are not
merely glorified technical colleges arid
degree-factories, but which consider them-
selves primarily as centres where men of
learning and curiosity may apply their
minds, with the help of adequate re-
sources, to solving the riddles of the
universe.
Such a centre the National Uni-
versity is designed to be, and it is fitting
that the first Chancellor should be both
an Australian and a graduate of Cam-
bridge—a university in whose giant
Cavendish laboratory, named after the
most versatile of English chemists, the
Maorilander Lord Rutherford laid the
foundations of the atomic era; the uni-
versity also from which came the main
founder of Australia’s first university in
Sydney, William Charles Wentworth.
That Viscount Bruce himself, now a
world figure far more esteemed in
lands other than in his own, which
so little cherishes its great men, is
an Australian, and that he was sur-
rounded on the dais by Australians,
great in research and scholarship, marks
the readiness of the country for the new
development.
The Government can afford to be
lavish in its expenditure on the venture,
remembering that the greatness of almost
every country has begun when the
emergence among its people of renowned
teachers has brought the students of
other lands flocking to its schools.
With the nucleus of professors and
research-workers which it possesses, and
with the building of the ambitious national
library which is now in contemplation,
Canberra must inevitably become one of
the world’s centres of culture and a
Mecca for post-graduate students from
every t country at least on this side of
the globe.
One man, incidentally, has scarcely re-
ceived the credit due to him for his
part in the initiation of the enterprise.
It was, from the first, a baby of Dr.
Evatt.
Caretakers in Spring-street
In Victoria McDonald’s Government of
the Thirteen Farmers has reluctantly
handed over the reins to Hollway’s
Government of the Eight Caretakers.
Political events in Melbourne last week
went more-or-less according to plan —the
Cain-Hollway plan. When the Supply
Bill reached the Legislative Council the
“Labor” leader in the Council proposed
its rejection “in view of the inequitable
electoral system and the Government not
being fairly representative of the people.”
His amendment was carried by 17 votes
to 16, Liberals Gartside and MacLeod
voting with “Labor.”
Next day Premier McDonald asked the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, for a dis-
solution of the Assembly. He claimed
that the Council’s action was unconstitu-
tional and that the vote in the Council
was “not a question of Supply, but one
of intrigue and conspiracy to get rid of
the Government.” In the Parliamentary
vocabulary, intrigue and conspiracy are
words of rather elastic meaning, but in
practice the purpose behind almost any
attempt to block Supply is to get rid of
a Government. McDonald’s argument
was that the Council had no right to
link its rejection with an intimation that
it would grant Supply only to Mr. Holl-
way, and to him only for the purpose of
introducing electoral reform.
The Governor obviously did not see
things in quite the same light as Mr.
McDonald. Constitutional precedents re-
quired him, before granting a dissolution,
to satisfy himself that no one else was
capable of forming a Government which
could carry on.
After consulting Mr, Cain, Mr. Norman
and Mr. Hollway, Sir Dallas decided
against a dissolution and commis-
sioned Mr. Flollway to form a Govern-
ment. The Premier-elect then announced
that he expected Supply to go through
the Council by today, that he would start
preparing his two-for-one electoral bill
immediately and that when the House
met (yesterday) he would seek a recess
of about a fortnight to facilitate the work
of the Bribery Commission. Lacking a
majority in the Assembly, the incoming
Government could be defeated as soon
as it met the House ; but on Monday it
was expected that several L.-C.P. mem-
bers would be A.W.L. yesterday ; Nor-
man’s Liberals are not anxious for an
immediate election. There was also the
possibility of further Libs switching to
the Hollway banner once it was hoisted
on the Government benches.
Arbitration Absurdity
The statement of Mr. Menzies, and par-
ticularly that of Sir John Latham
(formerly Chief Justice of the High
Court), provide a new and cogent argu-
ment for the holding of a convention on
the Australian Constitution —if “Consti-
tution” it can be called.
Sir John Latham confirms, and more,
the Prime Minister’s view of Parliament’s
authority to deal with the mushrooming
basic wage. He says that the Common-
wealth Government should have greater
powers to control conditions of indus-
trial employment and the rights and
duties of employers and employees-
powers which nearly all Parliaments in
the world possess.
As Mr. Menzies indicated, the Con-
stitution allowed Parliament to create the
Industrial Arbitration Court and to endow
it with powers, and to abolish it and its
powers altogether. But Parliament has
no authority to interfere with what the
court decides. “If the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court decided to introduce a
basic wage of £4O a week it could do
nothing about it.” And, apart from this,
State and Federal systems function side
by side in a state of conflict and muddle,
irrespective of national, defence or any
other generalised interests and without
any present method of mending weak-
nesses. Parliament cannot even permit
collective bargaining if it thinks it desir-
able; It is not sovereign where wages and
conditions are concerned.
Perhaps in some respects the Govern-
ment is not quite so powerless as it makes
out. It seems that it could at least
approach the Arbitration Court in such
matters as the Harvester Award, but does
not do so because it would regard inter-
ference as political dynamite. And cer-
tainly there is a good deal to be said for
keeping politics out of wage-fixing. Yet
it is ridiculous that wages should con-
tinue rising arbitrarily in keeping with the
effects of their own expansion, on the
basis of an outmoded formula.
Whether wages and conditions are
political dynamite or not, the provisions
of the Constitution which deal with them
need thorough revision to meet modern
circumstances. We are trying to run
1952 industry with a 1901 employment-
control plant.
The Meaning of Monte Bello
The statements of Mr. Churchill and
others about the results of the atom-
bomb tests at Monte Bello are obviously
incomplete, and the most useful purpose
served has been to define the general
attitude to nuclear-fission bombs. Every
comment has been of the shaking-knees
type —“Oh, how terrible it will be if a
bomb is sneaked into Sydney Harbor!”
Obviously the British Cabinet did not
sink all its principles of responsible gov-
ernment and spend £lOO million secretly
just to find this out. It knew it all before.
And it did not need to discover whether a
bomb would vaporise a frigate in which
it was exploded or many other matters
which the test is supposed to have “re-
vealed.” There was probably very little
it did not know about atom-bombs pure
and simple.
Most of the interesting things about the
test obviously have not been told —why
it was decided to explode the bomb in-
side a ship, and quite a number of other
considerations.
The Russians are no doubt concerned
about these things. and wondering
whether or not the plan was counter-
offensive. If Sydney has cause to fear
that it might be blown up, to the last s.-p.
bookie, some night by a “Trojan ship”
anchored in harbor—not a very easy en-
terprise to organise for a surface-ship
in time of war against a port with booms
and proper defences, or even in time of
peace —the Russians have still more cause
for concern.
Their ultimate victory in a world war
would probably depend, in view of their
shortness of overall industrial resources
and transport, on their submarine cam-
paign. And because of their limited ports
of egress, especially in the west, it would
be bad news indeed that the Royal Navy
had perfected a technique for steering a
miniature submarine or large-scale under-
water guided missile into a submarine-
base, leaving it there till wanted, and
then exploding it by remote-control. It
might take only two or three bombs to
paralyse their whole etfort.
If an atom-bomb exploded in Sydney
Harbor would play ducks and drakes
with the city, what would it do in land-
locked, iron-bound, pocket-handkerchief-
sized ports like Dairen?
Monte Bello is food for thought for
the Communists as much as for ourselves.
Pie in the Eye
The custard-pie is traditionally the stock-
in-trade of slapstick comedy, the apple-
pie is a synonym for shipshape tidiness
and good order; but the meat-pie may
yet come to be accepted as the symbol
of successful rebellion against bureau-
cracy.
A short time ago a member of the
South Australian Assembly complained
to the Premier that both he and his con-
stituents had bought pies “sold as meat-
pies,” which contained “no meat
whatever, but only what appears to be
syrup or thick gravy.” He asked for an
investigation by the Prices Commissioner.
From the Prices Branch came a report
signed by the Assistant Prices Commis-
sioner. It stated that meat-pies were not
specifically controlled under the State
Prices Act, and continued:
Considerable difficulty was experienced
under Commonwealth control regarding
prices of these particular items. Most
manufacturers evaded price-fixation by
reducing the quality and quantity of their
products, and this would possibly recur if
control were reimposed.
The price-official went on to say that he
could “suggest only one logical solution”
—to have standard contents laid down
under the Pure Food and Drugs Act. Tins,
he felt, might bring “the short-weight
operator up to a higher standard than
that which now exists,” but unless defi-
nite standards were established “much of
the same difficulty could be anticipated
under recontrol whilst the right lay with
the manufacturer to vary the size and
quality of the product.”
With the final comment that
II is not felt that compulsion to a specific
price will achieve anything,
the Assistant Commissioner suggested a
Press warning that recontrol on the lines
he indicated might be considered.
In reading this reply in the S.A. Parlia-
ment, Premier Playford commented that
the meat-pie did not lend itself easily to
control “because pies are not of standard
weight, and there is no standard compo-
sition.”
While it is to be hoped that the meat-
pie will not become intoxicated with vic-
tory to the extent of allowing its price to
soar info the stratosphere, its size to
shrink to the dimensions of a pikelet or
its contents to degenerate to vegetarian
level, all lovers of freedom will rejoice
that the bureaucrats have been forced to
admit defeat.
Carpeting a Senator
These are the sentences from his speech
in the Senate on September 30 for which
“Labor’s” Senator Armstrong, a Minister
in the Chifley Government, was tried and,
by a vote of two to one, found guilty of
merely a slip of the tongue:
The only way in which we can obtain
value for the products of our secondary
industries is to manufacture them over-
seas.
Australia is now at a stage of its history
when it should encourage Australian in-
dustry to move into South-East Asia.
I suggest 'that we should establish out-
side of Australia a branch of every pos-
sible business undertaking that is operat-
ing here, and use Australian. brains and
“know-how” overseas in order to build up
our economic strength. Internal costs
of production are increasing so rapidly
that our secondary industries cannot com-
pete with those of other countries of the
world, which is a tragic position.
A brother-Senator put his pot on in
caucus, and the smouldering internal con-
flict there is such that the slightest breeze
sends up the temperature. By dint of Dr.
Evatt’s appeals to “mateship” at last
week’s meeting and Senator McKenna’s
warnings about “what dissension on such
a matter could lead to” (Melbourne “Age”
report), the meeting agreed by 34 votes
to 14 to accept Dr. Evatt’s explanation
that “Senator Armstrong had made a
slip of the tongue in using the "word
‘transfer’ instead of the word ‘expand’.”
He didn’t use either. He said Aus-
tralian industry should “move into”
South-East Asia to avoid high costs at
home.
Full Loafing
In Canberra’s superior shopping-quarter
of Manuka one day last week “h high
official” of the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Works came upon a foreman and
20 men of that department, supposed to
be laying pipes, who were, he reported,
‘"just plain loafing.” He dismissed thfem
all on the spot.
Later Minister for Works Kent Hughes
said that , notoriously supervision of
Government jobs had been “pretty lax
for some time”—has it only just been
officially discovered? —and is to be
tightened up. Being the first casualties
under the process, this working-party
promptly received a lot of local union
sympathy as sufferers under action de-
clared to be “unprecedented and too high-
handed to be tolerated.” The precedent,
however, has now been set, and there is
a lot of lost time to be made up. The
modern performers of “Government-
stroke” have over the years became
highly-practised artists in the game of
what is known as “making the job last.”
The Postmaster-General’s department
could have its eyes opened—if it
did a bit of supervision of its own
field working-parties. The organised
loafing on telephone-laying jobs around
Sydney is flaunted daily before the eyes
of enraged taxpayers. It is, of course,
matched by the time-thieving practised on
most Government and locaLGovemment
works; and the spokesmen for all those
loan-spending authorities who lament the
recent failure of Government loans may
look to these abuses for one cause of
the public revulsion.
What is now exposed is the shabby
reverse of the shield marked “full-employ-
ment.”
Double-time for Sundays
Though the N.S.W. Minister for Trans-
port has never said so, it ik ( obvious that
a big part of the financial loss on trams,
buses and trains is due to the cutting-
out of weekend shift-work. This loads
the outfit with a thumping charge on
Saturdays and Sundays, when crews are
paid time-and-a-half and double-time,
not for working overtime but because
part of their 40 hours is worked on Satur-
day and Sunday.
Until the advent of this system all, or
most, public services—transport, post-
office, etc. —worked weekend shifts as
part of the ordinary week. Overtime
was paid only when a worker exceeded
the weekly hours. Now, if he works 30
hours from Monday to Friday and 10
hours on Saturday and Sunday, for the
10 hours he must receive “penalty” rates
(the public has to pay a penalty for
asking a Government employee to put in
four of his 40 hours on a Sunday) and
the 10 hours can earn him nearly as much
as the 30.
This is probably what is the matter
with Mr. Anthony’s post-offic‘e as well as
Mr. Sheahan’s Transport Department.
What can be done about it isn’t clear,
but at least those concerned ought to
make plain to the public just what pro-
portion of the losses of their undertakings
this system creates. Incidentally, it was
when the issue of double-time on Sundays
was being contested as between the unions
concerned and public welfare that Mr.
Chifley declared: “We are not going to
crucify the workers.” Now “the
workers” are crucifying the public—and
themselves.
The War Fronts
According to Lord Alexander, British
Minister for Defence, the Communist
build-up on the Korean front continues ,
North Korean forces have reached
1,000,000 (apart from air forces shelter-
ing behind the Yalu River), which can be
supplemented at a moment’s notice by
Red Chinese divisions. Allied casualties
total 50,000 dead and 300,000 wounded
or missing, including South Koreans.
The United Kingdom has had 300 killed
and 2900 wounded, and the rest ot the
British Commonwealth loss*es have been
200 °- ,
The attacks in recent weeks, with the
exception of one or two, have been only
on a platoon or company scale. Heavier
fighting seems to have been mostly
limited to the Iron Triangle, which guards
a main strategic route to the south, and
to the air, in which the losses are given
from U.S. headquarters as ten to-one in
favor of the U.N.O. Allies.
At the weekend it was reported tna
an attack by the enemy in battalion
strength against Gibraltar Hul, a ' v
known feature of the British Comnw
wealth Division’s front which guards me
(Continued on page 7)


most direct route to Seoul, had almost
wiped out the company holding the hill.
There have been, and still are, signs of
the approach of a general attack on the
British Commonwealth Division, but
frequent similar shapings-up have come
to nothing.
It is a year since the last heavy fight-
ing took place on the front, and in the
interval wholesale digging-in by the
Communists, increase in their manpower
and improvement in their weapons have
added to their material advantages, but,
in general, their operations have tended
to strengthen their defensive rather than
their offensive capacity, which is never-
theless very strong.
The status of the Cofnmunist advance
in Indo-China has still to be determined.
The French appear to have had bad
reverses in their outpost areas, but it
remains to be seen whether the attacks
were merely the normal seasonal thrust
towards the Viet-nam rice-bowl or a real
offensive designed to go all the way to
Hanoi.
Should China join in the Indo-China
war openly on the same scale as in Korea,
a very serious point in world relation-
ships will have been reached. The
Western world cannot afford to see Indo-
China go into Communist hands. It
would be the first step in control of
south East-Asian food-supplies, and of
the politics of every country round to
India. It would also threaten the security
of Malaya and Burma and the com-
munication-routes of Australia with
Europe. Real large-scale operations in
that zone would be the opening stage of
world war.
POLITICAL POINTS
With a week to go most tipsters still
seem undecided whether Ike or Dalray
will win the Cup. Hydrogen and Adlai
are just as hard to separate for the White
House Stakes.
• ©
For once Jack Lang’s “Century” and
the Communist “Tribune” are singing the
same song. The “Trib.’s” front-page
story tells of the “Oust Menzies” delega-
tion which asked the G.-G. to dismiss the
Government from office ; Lang’s front-
page message is headed “McKell Should
Dissolve Parliament.” Both learned pub-
lications conveniently ignore the fact that
the Governor-General has no constitu-
tional authority to dismiss a Govern-
ment which commands a Parliamentary
majority.
e •
At the height of the three-party row
in the Victorian Parliament last week all
discord was stilled in the Legislative
Council and knives were sheathed as a
bill was brought on to provide for mem-
bers’ pensions. For 14 minutes, the
period necessary to pass it through all
stages, calm and unanimity reigned.
When one member began to ask: “Is the
Government going on with business
having regard to?” the Chair cut him
short as out of order for irrelevance. The
mere mention of party dissension at such
a moment was manifestly sacrilegious.
• ®
Headline in Brisbane “Courier-Mail”:
“M.L.A. Hurt By Bull.” Oughtn’t he be
used to it?
• ©
As a sequel to the Loan Council’s
agreement to raise interest-rates the Elec-
tricity Commissions in three States are in
the market with loans at 4| per cent.
Victoria’s S.E.C. is seeking £2\ million,
N.S.W. wants million and Queens-
land £750,000. Just as these loans were
announced news came from Perth that
the W.A. Electricity Commission’s £1
million loan at the old rate of £4 12s. 6d.
had been oversubscribed by £287,000.
• »
Hollway’s team of eight is the smallest
Government to hold office in Victoria,
but not by much. In 1945 the Macfarlan
caretakers—also a breakaway Liberal
group—numbered ten.
• «
A. E. Monk, president of the A.C.T.U.,
who now and then gives symptoms of
seeing the light, has displayed another.
When Melbourne Trades Hall Council dis-
cussed urging the Victorian Government
to bring in compulsory unionism, Monk
said compulsory unionism in Queensland
had taken control from the rank-and-file
and left the movement moribund. He
urged unionists to consider whether
preference to unionists wasn’t a better
idea, adding that he favored it. Where-
upon the stunned council referred the
motion to the A.C.T.U.
e •
No doubt the motives prompting a
bill at present before the Queensland
Assembly are quite worthy and the legis-
lation in every way desirable, but the
title is a trifle obscure: “Married Women
(Restraint upon Anticipation) Bill.”
o •
Some N.S.W. Liberals talk with two
voices. Eric Willis, a Sydney M.L.A.,
attacked the Cahills for threatening to
socialise land, and in the next breath
called on them to fix higher prices for
land products. Isn’t that a form of
socialisation?
• •
Judgment has been reserved in the
High Court case in which a Sydney
carrying-company, Hughes and Vale Pty.,
Ltd., is seeking a declaration that the
N. S. Wales Transport Co-ordination
Act infringes Section 92 of the Consti-
tution. The company’s case is that road-
hauliers operating between N.S.W. and
Queensland are levied 3d. a ton-mile on
their N.S.W. mileage, irrespective of
whether their vehicles are full or empty,
and that the purpose of the impost is to
divert trade to the railways.
After long suspense Donald Grant,
author of Through Six Gaols, is back in
the N. S. Wales “Labor” Senate team.
The consternation which afflicted the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. Executive when the
I.W.W. warhorse was beaten at the first
vote could scarcely have been exceeded
if Doctor Evatt had burst his larynx.
But Right has now triumphed, the forces
of evil which dominated the earlier selec-
tion ballot defeated and, with two great
statesmen, Grant and Amour, leading the
“Labor” team next year, the Golden Age
moves closer.
* *
Encouraging signs that price-levels
have reached the peak and that the tide
is beginning to recede. In Sydney last
week reductions of about sixpence a
pound in beef prices were announced ;
from Melbourne came news of lower
prices for cooked meat. Then at the
weekend the Coal Board announced cuts
of up to Bs. a ton on coal from opencuts.
• •
Liberal-leader Treatt’s attack on the
Cahill Government’s works policy held
some points of interest for men retrenched
through alleged lack of loan-money; he
showed that while the Cahills have been
sacking men on the plea of insufficient
funds they have been busily buying office-
accommodation and city properties. The
list for fast year:
Transport-office accommodation.. £52,500
Stores warehouse .. . . . . 102,000
Electricity Commission, office
accommodation .. .. .. 147,000
Electricity Commission, temporary
offices .. .. 100,000
£401,500
The money used for these purchases
would have kept a considerable number
of men employed on some of the Govern-
ment’s unfinished projects.
Of these unfinished symphonies Treatt
remarked that after a century of self-
government N. S. Wales had a public
debt of £575 million: — '
Of this, £lOO million has been added in
the last two years and about £2OO million
in the last four years.
Yet Cahill whinges that he is being starved
of loan-money!
• •
Among other things, a report on the
Blair Athol coalfield in Queensland said
the deposits could produce 80 million
gallons of motor-spirit a year if a plant
costing £3O million were built. Premier
Gair promptly passed the report to Prime
Minister Menzies, who replied that the
Commonwealth Government wasn’t in-
terested. Who wants to bet that won’t
be used against Menzies by “Labor” in
the next Federal elections?
• ®
Nitrogen-bombs, “walkie-talkie” radios,
mobile water-tankers, motor-trailer pumps
and chemical extinguishers should be
used in fighting bushfires, says Blake
Pelly, N.S.W. Lib. M.L.A. What—no
conferences?
• •
The ceiling of the House of Repre-
sentatives would fall with a resounding
crash if Eddie Ward or Dan Curtin ever
asked a question that showed real con-
cern for the country’s defences, instead
of merely an eagerness to air the griev-
ances of disgruntled National Service
trainees.
• •
Minister for Labor Holt got one home
on Danny Minogue, one of those Sydney
“Labor” men in Canberra. Danny was
whingeing about the unemployed when
Holt told him that “Rather more than
half those receiving unemployment bene-
fits are in Sydney,” and hinted that per-
haps Sydney’s “Labor” Government
could explain to Danny.
• •
Queensland Transport Minister Duggan
told a road-transport conference in Bris-
bane that railways would be superseded
in course of time by other forms of
transport, that 98 p.c. of first- and second-
class goods between Toowoomba and
Brisbane was carried by road, and that
he wasn’t thinking of restricting the road-
traffic. Some would give a lot to know
what he was thinking.
• •
Adelaide Railways Minister Mclntosh
said the Transport Control Board there
had never refused a personal hearing and
“invariably” heard appeals against its
refusals to grant permits to road-hauliers.
T. A. V. Wallace, of the Inter-State Road
Transport Association, not only denied
the statement, but said the T.C.B. used
the knowledge it gained from applications
for permits to ring-up consignors an
offer road-rail contracts. This sort ot
thing is called transport co-ordination.
• •
Things “Hansard” can’t print!
Mr. Turner (M.L.A. for Kelvin Grove
in the Queensland Assembly): I have a
formula that I should like to have embodied
in “Hansard,” showing a comparison be-
tween human milk and cow’s milk.
The Speaker: Order! It is not permis-
sible to include such matter in “Hansard.
• •
Wentworth’s refusal to withdraw
his statement that the “Labor” party was
acting as a screen for the Communists
was quite logical. Too many members
make statements without substance and
withdraw them on challenge, having
served their purpose by the utterance. If
“Labor” members don’t agree that Went-
worth’s statement had substance and
that the Reds are using the A.L.P. as a
screen, why are they (so they claim)
making such strenuous efforts to throw
the Comrades off their union executives?
Wentworth’s remark was made during
the debate on the Navigation Bill, which
abolishes the Maritime Industry Com-
mission and places the shipping industry
under the jurisdiction of a judge of the
Arbitration Court. “Labor” objects to
the change, although when in power it
devised a similar plan for the stevedoring
industry. Seamen’s Union official Elliott
is a member of the Maritime Industry
Commission, and as a bright red star in
the local Communist galaxy he is pledged
to destroy Arbitration. If “Labor’s”
policy isn’t screening Elliott what is it
doing?
• •
Treatt was not quite fair in saying that
the Cahill Government had not sold
Housing Commission homes. After all,
it allowed that well-known Socialist Jackie
Ferguson, former A.L.P. president and
now chairman of the Milk Board, to buy
his home,
• e
Sydney A.R.U. men are still threaten-
ing to strike in protest against retrench-
ments. Chief point at issue seems to be
whether to stop for two hours or 24.
The only difference is that the second
alternative would be just 12 times sillier
than the first.
« •
Though the Australian Agricultural
Council recommended the States to extend
the current wheat “stabilisation” for an-
other year from September, 1953, the
Playford Government threw it out. This
means a lot of talking about what to
do next. Growers, generally, are reported
to be “throwing their hats in the air,”
though a year or so ago they voted for
“stabilisation.” Hugh Roberton (M.H.R.
for Riverina) has a new scheme ready.
It’s outlined on Page 33 of this issue.
• ©
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove, speaking
of the need for increased support of
Government loans, said that the national
income for the current year would be in
the vicinity of £3500 million, and “surely
out of this amount £lOOO million could
be spared for investment”? As a propa-
ganda utterance that sounds impressive ;
as a serious statement by a man who is
presumed to know something about
finance it is incredibly misleading. If
Cosgrove examines the Commonwealth
Treasury estimates of national income
and expenditure he will see that the total
estimated savings available for invest-
ment of all kinds this year will be round
about £250 million.
Cosgrove’s guess-in-the-dark is in the
same category as the claim of Federal
“Labor” members that it should be easy
to fill Commonwealth loans because there
is £9OO million in the savings banks.
The truth is that most of the money
deposited with the savings banks is
already invested in Government loans.
• •
If “Labor” really wants to be taken
seriously on finance, why does the party
put Calwell up to speak on the subject?
Last week he prescribed a loan-policy—
low interest-rates and a firm decision to
restore the loan-market. This from a
man who only last year was urging people
to spend their money as fast as they could
before it lost its value.
« »
“Rann”: Last year a postage-stamp
was issued to commemorate “100 years
of responsible Government in Victoria.”
Somebody must have blundered ; it’s years
and years since Victoria had a respon-
sible Government.
On his arrival back in London from
Peking, Ivor Montague, a member of the
secretariat of the World Peace Council,
took to the British Museum a field-mouse
allegedly dropped in Manchuria by a
“foreign” aircraft as a germ-warfare
agent. Mouse-expert Dr. T. C. S.
Morrison-Scott identified it as Microtus
gregalis, a species common to eastern
Siberia, Manchuria and China.
• •
Socialism may have suffered a few
setbacks in Britain, but bureaucracy is
still in flower. For many years the
villagers of Iden, in Sussex, have
acclaimed Miss Dorothy Carter as the
best marmalade-maker within a day’s
plough-journey of the village church.
They say her recipe is better because it’s
bitter. They won’t be able to say it any
more. Last month a minion of the Food
Ministry bought a pot of Miss Carter’s
marmalade, analysed it and found that it
had a sugar-content of 64.4 p.c. Food
Ministry regulations provide a minimum
sugar-content of 68.5 p.c., so Miss Carter
was hied to the court, fined £1 and £4
18s. costs and told not to do it again.
Iden villagers will have to acquire a new
taste. Miss Carter is still going to make
marmalade, but not from the old recipe.
It’ll be Ministry marmalade now.
• •
Queensland Auditor-General Grosser
has had to warn the Gairs about their
railway losses. He said that though rail-
way revenue of £22,407,143 last financial
year was up £3,531,261 on the previous
year, expenditure was up by £5,231,367
to a total of £25,915,387. It takes a
Government-run concern to lose more as
it gains more,
• •
Constant use of the word “formula” in
diplomacy must be annoying to scientists,
in whose world it implies something in
which exactness is essential; a prescrip-
tion or rule which, if followed, will
inevitably produce a known and unvary-
ing result. A diplomatic formula,
although it is often put forward as a
prescription, seldom produces anything ;
usually it conforms to another dictionary-
meaning of the word —“a confession of
faith.”
• •
From Molongloside:
Federal Parliament will probably close on
Friday, and Menzies and McEwen will
leave for London economic discussions. The
problem of the banks, and particularly of the
separation of the trading and national sections
of the Commonwealth Bank, will be deferred
until next year. The new session will probably
not open until a lot of rearrangements of
programme, and perhaps of personnel, have
been made, Some opinion believes there will
be no meeting before March, and that the
session will terminate on the edge of the
Senate campaign with an early Budget contain-
ing new “incentives” and prepared, perhaps,
by a new Treasurer. But that is merely heady
guesswork at this stage. Certainty if wool
keeps up and Stalin keeps quiet next year
should be a favorable Budget year from the
taxpayers’ viewpoint.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Yarrasider”; A woman member of
the self-important crowd that failed to get
to Peking gave a thrilling account of their
attempts to circumvent the Menzies
“gestapo.” The delegates were “tailed”
day and night, she declares, for 5000
miles —at times the spy could have been
a hotel-porter or a taxi-driver. I won-
dered how these secret-agents betrayed
themselves. The only solution I could
arrive .at was that they must have
neglected to put out their hands for a
tip.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Findy”; Latest move in circulation-
rivalry among Sydney papers is the “Daily
Telegraph’s” revival of “free insurance
to registered readers” —a stunt tried by
many sheets since Alfred Harmsworth
first tried it out half a century ago. The
schedule of compensation payments for
non-occupational accidents ranges from
a fiver for broken bones to £lOO for loss
of life, but the really big prizes are
reserved for registered. readers and their
wives foftunate enough to be killed in
train accidents —-a thousand smackers for
one death, with a treble payment for the
double event. A very handy arrange-
ment for those destined for that kind of
death, but it wouldn’t have interested
Mark Twain. A railway booking-clerk
once tried to sell Mark a similar scheme.
The idea was that 10 cents insured you
for 1000 dollars against accidental death
on the train journey covered by your
ticket. Mark knocked it back. He told
the clerk that statistics proved that the
vast majority of Americans died in their
beds, so it was obvious that bed was a
most dangerous place. Let the railway
company insure him against dying in his
bed ; he’d carry his own risk as far as
the tiain was concerned.
*l* *t*
“E. & 0.E.”: When a Federal Minister
declared that “all first-class mail is carried
regularly by air between Tasmania and
the mainland,” his implication that Tassy
therefore has a good service was neatly
countered by a lady at a recent C.W.A.
conference. She suggested that Canberra
should be asked “to restore the mail ser-
vice of fifty years ago.”
“Swelpme”: The boys who shared my
“dogbox” on the South Coast ’ (N.S.W.)
train wore the badges of a well-known
secondary schotal. Their behavior was
exemplary, but I found myself deploring
that boys of such an age could find no-
thing more mature than comics to read.
A lad slightly older than the rest pro-
duced a small magazine which specialises
in mildly suggestive jokes. That struck
me as being the other extreme. During
the journey the magazine and comics
circulated, oldest and youngest poring
over both with the same avid interest. I
was trying to decide whether the modern
boarding-schoolboy was infantile and
moronic or precocious and salacious,
when a discussion started. Wooden cases
about 2in. deep were produced and
opened; they contained specimens of
dragonflies, butterflies, moths and various
other wogs, all carefully mounted in their
“That reminds me—when are you going to kalsomine the ceiling?”
various stages of development and named
in Latin. I gently butted in. The boys
were willing and able to answer questions
on the subjects, and for 20 minutes I
had the most interesting and informative
lesson in nature-study I’ve ever enjoyed.
And now I’m wondering whether it really
matters much what a boy reads when he’s
relaxing,
» ❖ ++♦
“Doric”: We were waiting on the
railway-station at Amsterdam when an
American girl approached us. “Excuse
me,” she said, “but can you tell me if
I’m a herren ?” We were able to assure
her that she was not, so she thanked us
and hurried off towards a door marked
Damen,
❖ *t* ❖
“Pat”: When, as a publicity stunt, the
N.S.W. Commissioner for Transport in-
vited the public to sample two new inner-
city bus routes free on their first day’s
run, it was generally accepted as a novel
idea. It was —once. A Press statement
in November, 1855, announced; “The
Railway Company has made arrange-
ments with Messrs. Lush and Hilton,
"It's no good o’ telling y ’ what I learnt today, Mum.
You wouldn’t understand social study."
omnibus proprietors, to convey passengers
to and from the station gratis. Mr.
Lush’s omnibuses will ply to the Sydney
station, and Mr. Hilton’s to the Parra-
matta station.”
♦>
“Slim”; With the building shortage
still drum-tight the search for lodging
offers real-life experience to the real-life
enthusiast. In an outlying suburb I
listened to the landlady’s elaborations,
glanced under the bed and gulped audibly
to find a living body stored thereunder
regarding me bright-eyed from the lying-
low position. I dropped the bedcover
back and told the landlady I would call
her back, which is the technical language
for “No, thanks.” I waited outside and
accosted the mystery man when he
emerged. He rested his rucksack on the
fence, admitted having camped overnight
in the house, insisted that such an un-
mentionably neglected place could never
be offered honestly for rent. I agreed.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“E.H.M.”: Shortage of matches started
the “foreign - order” racket in the
munitions factory in which I worked in
England during the 1914-18 war. Turners
began manufacturing cigarette-lighters on
night-shift when supervision was slack.
Two pennies, florins or half-crowns were
used for the petrol-tanks, according to the
clients’ tastes —the bloke who ran the
crown-and-anchor board had a lighter
made out of two sovereigns. When
saturation-point had been reached, ash-
trays, dinner-gongs and other brass and
copper items were turned out for house-
hold adornment,
❖ ❖ ❖
“B.”: The claim by a French historian,
Grimod, that Joan of Arc was of royal,
if illegitimate, birth, that she was no‘t
burnt at Rouen in May, 1431, and that
she lived to marry and have children,
revives an old but discredited story. The
allegation that Joan
was daughter of the
Duke of Orleans and
Isabel of Bavaria,
wife of Charles VII,
was advanced as
long ago as 1805
by M. Caze, and
repeated in 1932 by
M. Jean Jacoby, but
ne i ther gentleman
produced any con-
temporary evidence,
relying, instead, on
inferences, such as
her wearing the
colors of Orleans
and their heraldic
nettles and her
adopting the sobri-
quet of “La Pucelle
d’Orleans.” The
character in the
current revival seems
to be a girl named
Claude, who, five
years after Joan’s
death, claimed to
be the Maid, was
acknowledged b y
Joan’s brothers, Jean
and Pierre du Lys,
as being their sister
and was married by
November 7, 1436, to
Robert de Amboise,
Lord of Tichemont,
by whom she had
two children. On that date she is de-
scribed in a contract dealing with a sale
of one quarter of the lordship of Ha raw
court as “Jeanne du Lys, the Maid of
France, the Lady of Tichemont.” In
1439 she was recognised and entertained
by the magistrates of Orleans and pre-
sented with 210 livres ; she next com-
manded the men-at-arms of the notorious
Gilles de Rais, and in 1440 she was
arrested, brought to Paris, tried, con-
victed, and confessed her imposture. She
is supposed to have returned to her hus-
band and lived in Metz to a good old
age. She was only one of several who
claimed to be the Maid after the latter’s
death.
*X* ♦> ***
“The Missus”: My neighbor reports
with glee the manner in .which he filled
in one official form. Repeated reminders
that his wireless-licence was due for
renewal had gone unheeded, and at last
officialdom sent an imposing-looking
affair demanding why he had neglected
to pay up. His reply read: “My wireless
went off, through valve failure, exactly
five minutes before last year’s Melbourne
Cup. It was a very old model and I
find it impossible to the parts
needed to make it work again. When it
works, or when I get a new wireless, I
shall take out a new licence,”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sack”: „ When a half-bred cattledog
wandered down the end of the platform
of our railway-station and rambled across
the rails an uneasiness spread through the
waiting crowd. Several people standing
near the edge of the platform waved arms
and made “shoo-ing” noises. The dog
continued his scrounging. There was a
clang as the signal fell. A girl backed
along the brink of the platform in a vain
endeavor to coax the tyke to the far end
and safety. The train was in sight—and
coming in fast. Women gasped and
turned their backs. A m'an seemed to be
contemplating jumping down and
rescuing the dog. The driver tooted his
siren in urgent warning. Everybody
appeared to be in a dither —except the
canine. He looked up casually, walked
off the track, and continued his investiga-
tion of a brown-paper-bag he’d dis-
covered. The whole station sighed with
relief.
♦> * ❖
“C. Towers”? While rereading Rachel
Henning, the name of Gilliat, the not-
so-effective overseer on Biddulph’s
Flinders River station, awakened
memories. Isn’t there a small tributary
of the Flinders, somewhere near the point
where it runs north the Gulf, still
carrying the name? Biddulph, on his
journey north-west, must have passed
close by the site of the Cape Horn Hotel,
which took its name from the huge basalt
bluff that towers on the other side of th'e
Flinders, between Hughenden and Rich-
mond, a spur of a vast boulder-covered
tableland that surely must be one of the
toughest parts of Queensland in which
to run sheep. The pub was burned down
many years ago, and when I was there
in 1923 one could only see a few
blackened stumps —and a grave with stone
kerbing, wr ought-iron rails and a marble
headstone. The gold goblet given to the
family by George lll,is still in the pos-
session of one of the Hennings, and
spends most of its time in the vaults of a
bank in Newcastle (N.S.W-), being taken
out only on great family occasions such
as christenings. The timber barges (now
droghers, with twin stern-wheels) still ply
from Bulahdelah down the Myall River
to Windawoppa on Port Stephens, whither
they went with the logs in Rachel’s day—
but not even the oldest inhabitant can
recall where the Taylors’ house stood,
and quite a few have tried to find it. But
the boats from Sydney don’t go to
Morpeth any more —in fact, they don’t
even carry passengers to Newcastle any
more.
. . • . • •
m
“Morris the Tinker”: In saying that
the only letters comparable to Rachel
Henning’s are those written by Charlotte
Godley, Norman Lindsay (B. 24/9/’52)
surely overlooks those of Lady Barker,
whose Station Life in New Zealand con-
sists of a series of vivid letters descriptive
of sheep-farming experiences in Canter-
bury Province during several years in the
mid? 19th century. Several editions of
this book have been published; the latest
was reviewed on the “Red Page” two or
three years ago. Naturally it has more
literary artifice than the letters of Rachel
and Charlotte; the writer was a regular
contributor to English periodicals, and
ultimately had several books published.
One of them, Letters to Guy, describes
her life in Western Australia, of which
her second husband. Sir Frederick
Broome, was Governor from 1883-1889,
A HYMN ON SUNDAY NIGHT
“As an economy measure, N. S. Wales trams
stop at 11 p.m, on Sundays.”
Gee, but it’s great
After being out late,
Walking your baby back home.
Though eight or ten miles
When you’ve been on the tiles
Seems a long distance to some.
Visions of heaven
End at eleven —
Then all the trams cease to roam;
You can take the last tram.
Wheel her home in a pram,
Or walk with your baby back home.
It’s nice on the sand
When you’re holding her hand
And love froths around you like foam ;
It’s not such a lark
When your dogs start to bark.
Walking yotir baby back home.
Lovers may snarl
At Sheahan and Cahill
Words you can’t put in a pome ;
Those gentlemen curse;
“It’s not ours — it’s McGirr’s ;
We’re walking his baby back home 7”
Some people pray
For a short working-day ;
Maybe in time it will come.
Why don’t they fight
For a short Walking-night
Walking their babies back home ?
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


"How long's this been going on ?”
Leonard Nelson: Dicken to those
South Aussies who claim the expression
Dicken as their exclusive property (B.
8/10/’52). I can testify to hearing it
used in every State of the Common-
wealth between 1895 and round about
1940 when “Oh, Yeah!” seems to have
pushed it out of circulation. From 1912
to 1926 I sang it on the Tivoli and Fuller
circuits as the refrain of a song written
and composed by John Nugent and
myself. There were a dozen or so verses,
but the first will suffice to give the idea:
W’en some windy pot springs a gag wot
ain’t true,
Erbout some silly stunt wot ’e ses ’e’s bin
thro’.
Don’t call ’im a liar, don’t git in a stew.
Jes’ say: “Dicken.”
No audience I sang it to ever showed any
signs of not understanding the expres-
sion.
“Smithy”: Whether or not Croweaters
are entitled to the exclusive use of the
expression “Dicken,” I know not, but
their own C, J. Dennis wrote in The
Bulletin many, many years ago
Now, it’s dickin to style if yer playin’ the
game,
If it’s marbles, or shinty, or war,
❖ * *
“H.M.F.” (Fiji): Such’s jokeblock,
“Uranium —never heard of the place!”
(B. 17/9/’52), recalls a personal experi-
ence. At a time when Kipling had been
lying at death’s door I engaged a London
hansom-cab for the trip home. As I
handed the driver his fare, still holding
in my hand the evening paper, I remarked
“Kipling’s all right!” The driver
scratched his head. “Which, sir?” he
asked. I repeated my remark, “I don’t
seem to ’ave ’card o’ that ’orse, sir!” was
his comment.
❖ ❖ ❖
“H.A.L.”: When the “flying-saucer”
puzzle passes into history it may be that
the name of William Davies will be
recorded as the one who gave the correct
explanation of some of the phenomena
responsible for the reports. Davies, a
retired engineer of the General
Electric Corporation (U.S.A.), who
has done a lot of experimental
work with high-frequency radar,
discovered that a radar-beam would
cause some gases to glow. He has
suggested that the beams probably
cause patches of rarefied gas in
the upper atmosphere to glow.
This would explain why “saucer”
sightings are most common
around top-secret defence projects, all of
which are guarded by radar-stations.
Further, it explains why even the fastest
jet-fighters have never been able to over-
take one of the luminous objects. They
would be just as elusive and intangible
as the will-o’-the-wisp seen above marshy
ground.
“Tom”: In the Seppelt cover-story
about Longleat House, Wilts (B. 1 /10/’52),
no mention was made of a peculiar ex-
perience said to have happened to the
then Lady Bath a year or two before
World War I. Edith Olivier told the
story in her book of reminiscences With-
out Knowing Mr. Walkely, One evening
Lady Bath came from her sitting-room
into the hall, and approaching the grand
staircase, which was dimly lit, was shocked
to see that it appeared to be enveloped
in smoke. She was quickly aware that
the- scene had no reality, for men were
stumbling down the stairs dressed in a
kind of light-blue uniform strange to her.
Others were being carried down by
stretcher-bearers. She told her daughter
of her vision. During the war Longleat
became a hospital for wounded service-
men. A fire broke out and the patients
had hurriedly to be shifted in the cir-
cumstances visualised by Lady Bath. The
convalescents were dressed in the blue
uniform rendered familiar by two world
wars, but which was unknown to Lady
Bath at the time of her vision.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emjai”: Onslow’s thrill, and specu-
lation on effects when the Monte Bello
atom-bomb supplied the fireworks, had
nothing on a country town when the
local bank went up in smoke and flame
some years ago. The wooden building
was a bonfire in quick time, and when
the remains had cooled the awful fact
was revealed that the concrete walls and
fireproof door of the strongroom had not
prevented the fire from entering via a
ventilator, and all within, except cash and
documents in the safes, was cinders.
With ledgers and all other bank records
gone the position seemed just chaos.
Credit customers moaned in perturbation
for the fate of their funds, while those
“in the red” less anxiously sniffed the
“All I hope is that these wonder drugs make a new man of you."
fragrance of incinerated overdrafts. As
a starting-point the manager and staff,
in an extraordinary combined feat of
memory, compiled a list of their 500-odd
customers with approximate balances, and
from that opened fresh ledgers and
carried on current transactions without a
break, in makeshift premises. All cus-
tomers were then contacted and from
their recollections and records, cheque-
butts and pay-in receipts, and working
forward from latest account statements
which could be found, each individual
balance was calculated. Replacement of
destroyed titles, mortgages and a mass
of essential documents was a long and
tedious task, but when every account had
been reconciled and new securities
executed, one thing stood out like the
smoke-pillar at Monte Bello —the com-
plete honesty of the community. No
obligation was repudiated; nothing was
put over, and the reconciled accounts
tallied, to within trifling figures, with the
memory-list compiled by the staff.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sip”: This boat-ship argument among
seafarers and landlubbers is phony.
During a recent trip to England I was
corrected several times for calling a ship
a boat, yet officers on board constantly
referred to other liners as boats. One
day I asked a seaman what line a certain
ship belonged to, and he said, “Oh, she’s
a P, and O. boat.” In London I read
signs like “Queen Mary Boat Train,” and
“Dover-Calais Boat Train.” Officers
from these vessels called them ships.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jasby”: Ever watched what happens
to morning papers discarded in railway
carriages? By all rights I suppose they
should become the perks of the porters,
but they seldom stay unclaimed long
enough for that. There’s always a claim-
ant, though the methods of gaining pos-
session vary. There’s the greedy type
who pounces on the rag almost before
the original owner is out of the carriage-
door. The furtive type puts his case or
parcel on it to stake a claim. Others
are more cautious still. One may remain
in the carriage until everyone else has
alighted, pretending not to have realised
that his destination has been reached.
Look back at him, though, and you’ll see
him emerge at last with the paper. The
really cunning fellow is he who gets off
the train with the rest, then makes a
hasty dash back as though he has just
remembered something. You know what
it is all right. What method do I employ?
Well, I’ve tried ’em all, and I still feel
a cad when I emerge with my spoils.
❖ ❖
“H.C.8.”; Tall and solidly-built, the
young fellow had “seaman” written —or
tattooed —all over him. Apparently he
had been in dispute with some anonymous
person referred to as “the third,” for he
was telling the girl all about it as they
waited for a train. The climax came
with: “And then he says, ‘You a stoker!
You couldn’t fire a hot-dog stand.’ Then
I tore back into him. ‘You an engineer!’
I said. ‘You couldn’t drive a nail, let
alone a ship!’ ” The lass looked a little
alarmed, “But isn’t that mutiny or some-
thing?” she asked anxiously. “Couldn’t
he get you the sack for saying that?”
The young fellow grinned. “Yair,” he
said with smug satisfaction. “He would’ve
—if I hadn’t beat him to it.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“5 G.R.”: Legend of the Gurkha’s thick
skull are based on fact. Back in the ’9o’s
an officer of the Bth G.R. was killed by
a bullet that ricocheted off his orderly’s
head. During the heavy fighting on the
N.W. Frontier in 1937 a Gurkha was
cracked on the mastoid bone. It floored
him for a while, but somebody pasted a
bit of plaster over the little puncture
lower down and the Gurkha went on
commanding his section. Six years later
he was shot-up in Burma, losing, among
other things, an eye and a thumb. H e
was X-rayed to find what else was in
him ; below the left mastoid was a Pathan
bullet, embedded in tissue.
“Bamekaw”: Mention of the Poster
King (B. 17/9/’52) recalls another similar
specialist known as the Armless Artist.
Unfortunate enough to lack both arms,
whether from birth or by accident I
don’t know, he managed to paint pictures
by gripping the end of the brush between
his teeth. He seemed to make an adequate
living by touring country towns, and
appearing in vaudeville, while his finished
products commanded a ready sale at
guineas a time. It’s many years since 1
last saw him; a story (unconfirmed)
said he died from lead-poisoning
brought about by constantly inhaling the
fumes of the paints.
*X* ❖ ❖
“North-5-West”: Permit me to protest
against the decline in the arts relating to
the flotation of mining-ventures, namely
scrip-printing and prospectus-writing.
Time was when you received your scrip
for shares in, say, The Grand Bonanza
Gold Mining Co., you got documents
which were really decorative. When,
later, you pasted them on the wall their
gilt borders, illuminated scrolls and other
pictorial effects really convinced you that
you were lucky to have got in on the
ground-floor. I think Queen-street (Melb.)
really took the cake, with Adelaide a
close second. Bureaucratic control is no
doubt to blame for the decline in the
literary quality of the prospectus. One
which reached me recently related to an
alleged deposit of nitrate “up north.” It
wound up with: “In conclusion, sir, this
proposition is pregnant with advantageous
potentialities.” It miscarried.
THE TECH.
The place where artisans and technicians
are made.
Where you can have your youngster “put
to” a trade
Even if it’s a girl.
And all the seriousness of youth is
concentrated there.
Conspicuously concealed in responsible
laughter
That only when it’s appropriate rings a
rafter,
Behind the decorum of joie de vivre.
An intelligent kind of effervescence
With which new education has replaced
The sour-faced
Deportment of our parents’ adolescence,
The sad and innocent post-W orld-W ar-
One abandon
Of our own.
They frown
Their delightful frowns of friendship on
parents who smoke,
Eat ice-cream instead of cocktails—even
joke
About the cloche hats and the Oxford
bags
Their parents wore
When they tore
The world apart in the ’twenties with
being young
After the battle, when everyone should
have been old;
When they flung
Their paper streamers over the flames of
peace.
Set fire
To a morality generally left cold
By trench-feet, bombs and barbed wire;
When they rocked
A civilisation bent on self-destruction.
When they shocked
A world united in armaments production
With each new, innocent, adolescent
ruction.
We can save our children from our own
excesses
(Such as they were /)
By having them “put to” a trade, both
leds and lesses.
( That’s a pun to achieve a rhyme, not an
observation
On sex-discrimination ;
But let it pass
If the cap fits any class
Of the knowledges
At technical colleges.)
These kids have an air
Of awful maturity under their shiwf hat..
But I wonder
What thunder
Rumbles there ?
Anyway, we have safely provided for their
future
For a few pounds a term.
It seems a pity that they won’t have any
future
If we haven’t saved them from
The atom-bomb.
N.S.W.
JOYCE LEE.


II
When it's an
Exide—you start!
Hx
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX 2.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Hooked a knighthood by nuclear
fission, William Penney, K.B.E.
Lieut.-Colonel D. J. Duffy takes a bit
of experience with him to his new post
C.O. of the 15th National Service Train-
ing Battalion at Puckapunyal. B Com-
pany’s boss (2 /30 Battalion), he com-
manded the first operation undertaken by
Australian soldiers against the Japs.
Duffy settled his mob on the south side
of a bridge over the Gemencheh River,
in Malaya, waited till enough targets had
crossed, blew the bridge, and hoed in
from his ambush. Some 600 Japs were
killed, with the loss of 10 Diggers. For
this Duffy won the first M.C. awarded
to the A.I.F. in Malaya. On the with-
drawal to Singapore Duffy did yeoman
work in charge of rearguards covering
demolition. Captured at Tyersall Palace
in Singapore, after defending the Cause-
way, he had his share of building the
Burma-Thailand railway, and came home
in 1945. A Sydney High School product,
he is rated the most successful coach in
the G.P.S. four-oared rowing events, and
he rowed in five G.P.S. regattas himself.
This unusual presentation of John
Lonergan—the subject being normally
without an exuberant grin about as often
as he is without garments —depicts the
man who runs Castlemaine Perkins in
Brisbane. A clerk when the co, (then
BARRELS OF FOUREX
Castlemaine-Quinlan Gray) peddled mer-
chandise as well as the famed “Fourex,”
young Lonergan canvassed southern
Queensland to such profitable effect that
he caught the keen eye of John Devoy,
who made him g.-m. when Devoy became
managing-director. On his mentor’s
death in 1942, Lonergan took over the
barrel-rolling. A zealot who talks liquor
with as much appreciative zest as art-
gallery directors talk art —and as proud
of his product as Da Vinci ever was of
his —Lonergan is vice-president of Bris-
bane’s Tatts, and rates love of horses
next to his love of being Irish. Tatts
runs a yearly race called the J. F. Loner-
gan Stakes.
Percy Pavey was the man in the chair
after the N.S.W. Queen’s Prize rifle-shoot
the other day. It’s a familiar seat, he
having enjoyed it on the 10 other occa-
sions when he’s bagged a King’s or
Queen’s prize in Australia. Then, of
course, there was the time, in 1948, when
his bulls brought him the world cham-
pionship at Bisley. He hails from Caul-
field (Vic.).
Claimed to be the first Enzedder to
receive an honorary doctorate from a
French university, Dr. Fraser Mackenzie
has had one conferred by the old Uni-
versity of Montpellier. Son of Hugh
Mackenzie, a foundation professor of
Victoria University College, Wellington,
F.M. is head of the French department
of Birmingham University and a D.Litt.
of the Sorbonne.
Twenty years a barrister, with the
Crown Law Office for 10 years before
that, Thomas O’Hagan becomes Queens-
land’s newest judge. Charters Towers
brought him into the world, St. Leo’s
College (Brisbane) sent him out into it.
Back from duty in Malaya as C.O. of
No. 90 Wing, R.A.A.F,, Group-Captain
Redmond Forrest Green takes on the
directorship of organisation and staff
duties at R.A.A.F. Headquarters, Mel-
bourne. Born at Pingelly (W.A.), he
had his education at Westralian
University, from which he entered
the R.A.A.F. as a cadet. He won the
Sword of Honor on graduating, and
D.S.O. at Milne Bay. Recreates on skis.
Appointed Judge in Divorce in N.S.W.,
S. V. Toose, who knows more about the
jurisdiction than anyone in the State.
Reckoning, in 42 years, he has assured
enough lives, Ernest William Robinson
is exchanging the general-managership of
Australian Metropolitan Life in Sydney
for slippered ease. One of those pleasant
chaps mellowed by travel and experience,
Robinson was schooled at Sydney’s Fort-
street, and had 12 years with his co. in
Brisbane, followed by 20 in Melbourne.
There he presided over the old Athenaeum
in Collins-street, Victoria’s oldest literary
institution, dating from 1839. Now he’s
put aside life-assurance, his main interests
in life are gardening, literature and golf,
in that order.
“Macnell”: In Army and Air Force a
gunner is a , trigger-puller or loading-
number. In the Navy the gunner is an
officer who has hauled himself up from
lower-deck to wardroom. Sometimes —
in a cruiser—he does pull a trigger; the
electrical gadget in the control-director
which fires all Bin. guns. At other times
he is lord of that complex mechanical
brain in the bowels of the ship called
the fire-control-table. In a destroyer or
frigate he has just about everything
gunnery on his slop-chit, from 4.7 in.
cartridges to the bolt of a rifle. This
last stores job is the present responsi-
bility of John Albert Harte, the Navy’s
armament-stores-officer in Brisbane, an
ex-gunner whose promotion to lieutenant-
commander came through the other day.
A crack pistol- and rifle-shot (his nick-
name “Bill” is an abbreviation of
“Buffalo Bill”), Harte was an ordinary-
seaman in the Sydney when she caught
the Emden, and has had 30 of his 41
years’ service at sea. A straight-backed,
ruddy-faced 58, Harte is due to swallow
the shackle shortly. He went to sea from
the land round Mareeba (n.-Q.), and aims
to go back there.
The chairmanship of Melbourne
“Herald” Co., vacant by the death
of Keith Murdoch, has gone to
the vice-chairman, Harry Douglas
Giddy, who is also chairman of
the National Bank, Australian News-
print Mills and Advertiser News-
papers, Ltd., in Adelaide. He is a
mechanically-minded chartered account-
ant, 66 years old, who does a little fish-
ing on the side and practises golf as
a second profession. There is a good
deal of speculation about possible changes
on the editorial side of the “Herald,” with
rumors of a coming transfer of Lloyd
Dumas from Adelaide to Melbourne.
“Cardie” (Natal): Your reviewer
“M.H.E.” (Red Page, 5/3/’52), in Tales
of the Borders, may be right insofar as
the baptismal name is concerned, but in
my day “the immortal Tommy Cahill”
was universally known by and answered
to the monicker of Paddy. Of the famous
trio of buffalo-shooters of his day—him-
self, Joe Cooper and Louis Freer —I con-
sider Paddy was the most outstanding in
his spectacular but tough profession. If
memory serves me right, he told me that
once he made a tally of 22 buffalo down
without once dismounting.
Close on 50 years in the S. Australian
railways has earned Stanley Holm
Watson his release from harness. Gallipoli
Diggers will remember the first pier there
—Watson designed and built it. He was
also the last Australian officer —stand-
fast the beachmaster —to leave at the
evacuation. Coming back from France
with his lieut.-colonelcy, D.S.O. and
M.C., he started his steady climb in the
railways. He retired as general traffic-
manager.
W. A. Came, winner of the Anzac
Fellowship Essay, of which a condensa-
tion appears in this issue, was a “founda-
tion member” of the 6th M.G. Company,
an amalgamation of the M.G. sections
of the 21st, 22nd, 23rd and 24th Bat-
talions of the Sixth Brigade, A.1.F., in
World War I. He joined as a private
and was later commissioned and became
the historian of the company. His book,
In Good Company, which contains the
record of the adventures of this superla-
tive combination of Vickers manipulators,
was one of the earliest unit histories —
and the only history of an M.G. company
—issued after the war, and was quoted by
C. E. W. Bean in the Official War History.
The 6th M.G. Company was in every
great action of the 6th Brigade from
Pozieres to the Hindenburg Line —Came
mostly avec. It was the second M.G.
company to make contact with the Ger-
mans and claims to have fired the last
Vickers burst at them when the war
ended.
Reached the end of the line in Mel-
bourne, Harold Clapp, K.8.E., with his
dream of rail-standardisation not material-
ised. Born in Melbourne, apprenticed to a
local engineering-firm, he had' for father
an unusual man, an American who started
Melbourne’s cablertrams. Young Clapp
also took to trams, in Brisbane for four
years. Then to the U.S. for experience,
which he got right enough, reaching the
vice-presidency of a large power co. and
cutting a wide' electrical swathe across
the continent, converting a number of
Uncle Sam’s suburban railways from
coal to volts. He was back home in 1920,
to hold the chair of the Victorian Rail-
ways Commissioners for 19 years, in
which time he made a reputation as a
slogan-maker and skilful advertiser of the
State’s products and scenic beauties. Few
could teach him anything about getting
the last ounce out of men while keeping
them in good humor; he used to go on
his railway-line inspections well freighted
with cigars, the cheroots being handed
out along with his commendations, the
latter more appreciated than the smokes,
Right to the end he had a resemblance
HAROLD CLAPP
as Frith knew him
to a New York executive, in voice, bear-
ing and headgear. One of his last public
appearances was three months ago, when
he was present at the launching on the
Sydney-Melbourne track of Victoria’s
new 100-ton diesel-electric locomotive.
It has his name in gold-lettering on its
bonnet, and makes his other pride, the
Spirit of Progress, look almost like a
kid’s toy. He was 77.
It’s a marvel how R. G. Howarth,
Reader in English Literature at Sydney
University, finds time for his multitu-
dinous literary activities. President of
the Sydney branch of the English Associa-
tion since 1947, editor of its “Southerly”
since 1939, Howarth has been a, member
of the Advisory Board of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund since 1950. As
well, he represents the British Poetry
Association in Australia; writes now and
then for The Bulletin; is an active
member of the P.E.N. Club and Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers; an examiner
in English ; and author of studies of Shak-
BUNDLES OF BOOKS
speare’s “Tempest,” Edith Sitwell and Ezra
Pound. An anthologist of poetry, and
editor of works by Pepys, Byron, Gas-
coigne, Brereton, McCrae, Furphy,
William Hay and Peter Hopegood, he has
in preparation—among other writings—a
study of the life and work of John
Webster, together with a concordance to
his writings, and a revision of the
tralian section in the Cambridge Biblio-
graphy of English Literature. And, also, he
finds time to give his general services to
literature as critic of unpublished work,
judge of literary competitions, speaker,
broadcaster and adviser. He recently
returned from a year’s study-leave in
England, where he received several
academic honors and did a tremendous
amount of literary work and research.
A son with seemingly the same drive
as his father, lan Holyman joined Aus-
tralian National Airways six years ago
—passenger department, office-boy. The
other day he took over the managership
of the co.’s Queensland interests, a pretty
hefty job. He’s 25.
Into the Silence :
In the Dalwallinu (W.A.) hospital, towards
whose maintenance he had generously contri-
buted, William John Green, of Payne’s Find.
Mining-man, pastoralist, businessman , and
sportsman, backer of many prospectors. Green
was timber-contracting for mines before he went
to Payne’s Find. There he set up as store-
keeper, butcher, baker and publican, running
all businesses until his death._ He was one of
the partners of the Mountain View mine at
Day Dawn, and part-owner of three others.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 90, J. H. Tresseder,
an old-time footballer who played for Otago
and Southland against Stoddart’s team in 1888.
He once cut a track through virgin country
between Dusky Sound and Lake Manapoun
and located Lake Lochie, deep in the heart
of the Sounds area.
At Invercargill (N.Z.), at 81, T. F. OTlyrne,
foundation member of the N.Z. Timber
Workers’ Union. Till two years ago he had
been secretary for 44 years, during which time
the union had never had a stop-work meeting or
strike. A native of Tasmania, he was elected
to the Legislative Council in 1933, and was
there till its abolition in 1950.
In Perth, at 68, Raoul Robellaz Kahan, a
Westralian who designed the Rand Refinery
near Johannesburg. An authority on g° ia '
refining, he started as a clerk in the Royal
Mint, Perth, qualified B.Sc. in Adelaide, and
was appointed assayer in Perth. In War Ine
was Deputy Master of the Royal Mint i
Bombay. At the end he was running a pastoral
property in the Kojonup (W.A.) district.


r W V?
Oa/, SUPy po you hav& to eo on whistling- AU?
rue &ahpam t/m£
60MISTUM<2rp SoRRV, AAATBy JUST THAT jAI
TRV(N(r TO OJVE- UP SMOKiMO, f/
THE CURE


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gulliver”: Around 1925 on the lower
reaches of the Gascoyne I came on a
couple of prospectors padding the hoof
behind a tiny pony-cart, loaded till the
springs sagged. They were heading for
a new gold-strike down past Leonora
and wanted to stake a couple of claims.
Leonora was about 700 miles away, we
were in the middle of a three-year
drought, wells were up to 50 miles apart,
and if their small horse knocked up or
died —but they couldn’t stay to talk ; they
were in a hurry. Later, on the same road
just outside Carnarvon, some Afghans
driving a mob of camels came along.
One of them casually hailed the overseer
by name. They’d last met at Eucla, down
on the Bight, the year beforehand had
come across from South Australia. Look
“Looks like they can't agree.”
at the map and see how far that is!
But the miracle-man was a 25-year-old
Cockney who, until he came to us, had
never seen a sheep or a cow or a horse
outside a racecourse or coster’s barrow.
He left and went to Geraldton. A year
later he was back again. Tired of the
Murchison, he’d bought a horse, slung
a swag on the saddle, ridden a couple
of hundred miles up the Murchison,
thence across to the Gascoyne, and about
200 miles down to Carnarvon, in a
drought year! We were experienced
bushmen, and wouldn’t have taken on the
trip without at least a couple of pack-
horses and one spare hack as a minimum.
But Bill got through—on a goose-rumped
nag with a head like a fiddle and a back
that sloped down in a straight line from
wither to croup. We gazed at the neddy
in stunned bewilderment. But Bill re-
garded it with pride and affection —it
was probably the first thing he’d ever
owned —and all he said was “Ar, ’e’s a
good ’un, that there ’orse—’e’s a good
’un! ”
0 * * *
“W.M.H.”: On pay-day Danny swag-
gered into the store and asked for a pair
of boots. “What size?” the storekeeper
asked. “Sixes, but I want the biggest
pair you’ve got in stock,” Danny an-
nounced. “I’ve got a pair of elevens
here,” the storekeeper told him, “but
you’ll never be able to walk in those.
Why do you want them so big?” “Well,”
Danny explained, “since I’ve been work-
ing in the dairy the flamin’ cows keep
treading on me toes, so I reckon if I
wear extra-big boots the next time it
happens me toes won’t be there.”
* * * *
“F.A.M.”: The abos have no alphabet
or written language, but they have a sign-
language which I can read. Was riding
down the pack-track from Mt. Spurgeon.
From a high spur about three miles from
Mt. Carbine I saw a smoke-signal about
half a mile below the town. When I
arrived at the hotel I asked the publican
what time the trooper went past and
who were the two men with him. The
publican replied, “They passed about ten
o’clock. But how did you know? You
would be miles away from here.” I said
“Where is the abo. who cuts the wood
for you?” He replied, “At the camp, I
suppose.” “No,” I told him, “he’s about
half a mile down the creek and will be
along soon.” Wheif the abo. came I
told him I read the signal. He laughed
and said, “I think boy see him, too.”
Later on I saw two boys and they told
me they got the signal about the police-
man and two other men, adding that the
party had taken the wrong track. This
is to prove that their signals do contain
messages.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Maybe a few other old-
time nor’-westers will recognise “Gul-
liver’s” nonchalant mixed-bather (B.
8/10 1 ’52), I’d pick him in one as the hero
of another tale that went the rounds out
there a few years earlier. Coming
straight from England, he started as a
jackeroo, and for several years never
drew a penny of his pay—such as it was.
Then came the letter from home, and
the news that he’d come into his inherit-
ance. Promptly resigning, he was told
by the manager to see the bookkeeper and
get his cheque. Full of dignity even in
those days, he recoiled slightly, looking
his most disdainful. “Sir,” he told the
astonished boss, “none of my family has
ever worked for money, and I’m sure that
I didn’t come to this Godforsaken hole to
break that tradition!” Greatly abashed
by such monumental dignity, the boss in-
vited him to accept instead two of the
best horses he could pick from the
station mob. He took the two quite-
undistinguished prads he’d been riding in
the camp, packed one and rode the other
“I object to Sister calling me her little guinea-pig!”
to town where he took ship for Perth,
Three months later he was back again,
this time to bowl the manager completely
—he’d only bought the “Godforsaken
hole ” Apparently he made a hobby of
surprising people.
* * * *
„ TT7 1t . f
“Clooter ; Well, so long, folks, im
off down to the Victorian western district
to get stuck into this sheep-growing busi-
ness. Mr. Nevil Shute, the eminent
English author, in The Far Country, has
a bloke named Jack Dorman as owner
of Leonora, “hardly to be classed as a
sheep-station, being only 1800 acres.”
Still, Dorman is found sitting under a
tree gloating over his season’s wool-
cheque. It’s for £22,178 Bs. 2d. But as
well there are still “the fat lambs and
the bullocks, say £26,000 in all.” That’ll
do me. “Dalgety’s Wool Review” says
the average for the boom 1950-51 season
was 12s. a pound for wool. If Dorman’s
sheep were extra good they’d cut 121 b.
a head. If Dorman got £22,178 for his
wool at the 12s. average that’s 36,9631 b.
At 121 b. a head that’s 3080 sheep on his
1800 acres, a little more than 1.7 head an
acre. And he got another £4OOO for
his lambs and bullocks. Yes, sir, Mr.
Shute, I’m headin’ south.
, * * *
“Painter”: A Border collie in our S.A.
sheep district must have heard of the
Olympics. The homestead is in the centre
of a circle about 300 yards in diameter,
There are several fences branching from
the house enclosure. When the dog is
loosed in the morning he starts the first
exercise, around the course three times.
There are two drains to cross, but
although bridges span them Monty
jumps as far as possible, then
scrambles or swims the rest. Any sheep
on his track have learned to hurry out
of his way, for Monty scorns to deviate.
He does this training stunt again at noon,
and again before being tied up at night.
For noon and evening rounds he does
only from two to two-and-a-half laps.
This routine is followed every day with-
out fail, summer and winter.
* * * *
“Sutroh”: Darwin assumed that bird-
fights occurred between males for the
possession of some female. More recent
study of bird-life and habits proves that
this is not always true. In 90 p.c. of
cases the quarrelling arises out of pro-
perty rights. Before embarking on a
search for a suitable mate, the cock bird
seeks a suitable spot for a home-site,
Having chosen it, he expects trouble, for
now he has to defend it against all-
comers. He spends his time now perched
in some conspicuous portion of his newly-
acquired domain and sings his love-lay.
When a partner turns up, the pair start
building the nest. A change comes over
them. They are no longer sociable and
wanderers, they become homelovers,
jealous and pugnacious. Woe betide any
that attempt to jump their claim or even
try to snatch a morsel of food within
the estate limits. These latter are mapped
out with great precision. In Territory
in Bird-Life, Eliot Howard, a student of
English bird-life, describes how lap-
wings, using the same field for successive
years, have staked their claims like
miners. Each family has its own set
portion and no other lapwing trespasses
without receiving a very bitter and resent-
ful attack from the rightful proprietors
Border conflicts often occur and both
sexes take part in the fighting, Land
wars are more frequent among sea-birds
over their necessarily restricted tern-
tonal rights, in some cases a matter of
a few square feet. Mankind is not alone
in his desire for exclusive possession of
land. But there’s one difference—birds
never f lg ht for more land than they really
n£ed
**« * *
„
Ybsul ; Water of Leith s strange
Otago rainbow (B. 15/10/ 52) seems
linked with the colorful halo known to
airmen, of which there was some
Bulletin discussion a while back,
In certain conditions a plane s
shadow is seen racing along the cloud-
tops ringed by a complete little rainbow,
Like “W.0.L.” himself, the aircraft is
between the sun and some suitable cloud,
mist or fog “screen.” Once, crossing
high cumulus over the Egyptian delta in
tight formation, three Hurricanes cast a
composite shadow centred in a single
’bow. Curious, we spread apart and
were rewarded immediately with a rain-
bow apiece,
* * * *
“Me”: lan' Mudie’s appreciation of
me (B. 15/10/’52) will probably be the
basis for a revitalised interest in Aus-
tralian history. He will surely be re-
minded of forgotten feats such as riding
the white bull through Wagga. But a
the feats of Aboliars will dim whencom-
P ared Cad " J
Kate, and I kissed both Mat and his mate.
* * * *
“Ceg”: We, too, have had a chop
picnic. A fire of coals for the chops and
ne ar by a larger fire because the night
j s c hill. Figures stand and squat round
tbe b j g fi re; the light from which accentu-
ates tbe <j ar kness of the surrounding
forest keg has been competently dealt
witb wbile tbe chops cook, and all is
merry jhe party is a mixed one. After
fqasting couples drift off in different
directioas> As the fires die down the
party gra dually reassembles and prepara-
tions are made for home. A muster dis-
closes two missing. Parties with torches
scatter to look for them. It is old mining
country, the ground plentifully pitted
with old shafts and holes. Lries are
heard coming from a hole about lurt.
deep and there in the beam of the torches
are the lost ones. He is a married man
whose missus is waiting at the fire, ni
partner in the mining venture is
a popular spinster. They are hauled our
The lady’s ankle is sprained and she
to be carried. The procession return
the scene of festivities. Then the m
missus goes into action and he has
carried. We have had chop picnics.
A BALLAD FROM KURING-GAI
SHIRE
Jack Pentecost as a young man was simple and
kind, , , . . ,
he took him a wife very much to his mind,
in French’s fine forest he sampled life s joys,
and built a wooden shack while his wife built
three boys.
Rocking three cradles they lived at their ease,
Jack kept a few goats while Jinny kept bees,
hoping to prosper—and prosper they did,
with honey at tuppence and a quid for each kid.
By his fireside one evening to Jinny said Jack,
“We’ve three lusty tinkers and clothes to our
back,
you haye a jacket and I have a coat
through the voluntary efforts of Felix, our goat.
“Though grateful, my darling, I’m not such a
fool , . , . , „
to trust all to a goat whose ardor might cool,
he flushed and he faltered, “I’ve just set my.
heart . , ~
on driving a Clydesdale in a cedar tip-cart.
Proud, proud was his wife as she put her neat
stitches .
in identical patches on four pairs of britches,
she helped her Jack save in the old days when
saving , „ ,
was merely a pretty word for starving and
slaving.
Their bees they made honey, their goat went
his rounds,
at the end of ten years they had saved up
ten pounds;
right then from the horse-show they trotted away
five up on a Clydesdale, a well-feathered grey.
Their bees they made honey, their goat went
his rounds;
Pantaloon, their Clydesdale, soon brought them
ten pounds. ~. .
Gaily then they led him to Smith s Wagon Mart,
and they cantered home singing in a cedar
tip-cart.
Jack Pentecost as an old man was simple and
kind,
his wife and his boys were all quite to his
mind;
to his Jinny he said, “Before I depart
my sons shall each own his own horse and cart.
Their bees they made honey, their goat went
his rounds,
Pantaloon gained them a cool hundred pounds;
a well-feathered Clydesdale, two blue Percherons,
and cedar tip-carts Jack gave his three sons.
Today you may see any bright sunny day
bowling along the Pacific Highway
a well-feathered Clydesdale, two blue Percherons,
three cedar tip-carts and Jack’s three fine sons.
N.S.W.
ETHEL ANDERSON.


“Chickola”: Our local butcher adver-
tised his sausages as “today’s specials.” A
woman ordered a pound. When he took
down the string of snags to cut off a
pound the other strings moved along the
rail on their hooks. Then everybody
knew what had become of the two old
cab-horses that used to stand on the
post-office rank.
* * * *
“The Boorie”: The sight of swans at
sea was by no means uncommon at
Cottesloe (W.A.) in pre-war days. From
my surf-ski I’ve seen them a mile out, par-
ticularly on the flat calm of a summer
morning. Yet the well-stocked Butler’s
Swamp is only a mile inland from that
part of the coast. Recently I came across
nine pied geese placidly cruising along
half-way across Darwin’s seven-mile-
wide harbor. Geese in hundreds,
driven from their natural surroundings,
"Carfish!"
have invaded the town, where, protected,
amid the ample foocUand water, they have
quickly become contemptuous of traffic,
though a seafaring magpie-goose is some-
thing new to the old-timers and black-
fellows. I suppose swans and geese, like
humans, feel the need of an occasional
change of environment —that “sea-trip”
the doctor recommends.
* * * ♦
“Vet”: Sid was a shearer before he
saved enough money to buy a small sheep
property of his own. With a couple of
neighbors he shared the expense of a
small woolshed and plant, and each year
two shearers were employed, the three
owners'* doing the shed work as their
combined flocks went through. Everything
went nicely till the day Sid grew tired
of listening to the shearer on the near-
stand. “Aw, shut up y’r growling, can’t
y’!” he snapped. “There ain’t a thing
wrong with the sheep.” The shearer bit,
once more voiced his opinion of the
woollies, and threatened to leave. “Well,
go then if y’ want to, and I’ll take the
stand meself,” was Sid’s decision. Half
an hour later he was plying the handpiece
on the near-stand, and whistling joyfully
as he swung the jumbuck for the long
blows. “Like old times, this,” he grinned
and dived for another woolly. By mid-
day he’d grown quiet, and during the
third run the familiar mumbling began.
“Sit still, damn y’,” came from the near-
stand. “Want y’r flamin’ throat cut, y’
hard-woolled runt? Dunno how they ex-
pect a bloke t’ shear goats like these.”
Johnny paused with an armful of fleece.
“Hey, whose sheep are you growling at?”
he called. “Don’t care whose they are.
The wrinkly-necked cows ain’t decent
dog-tucker,” came from Sid. Johnny
passed on to the wool-table. “He was a
shearer all right, before he became an
owner,” he grinned at his mate. “They’re
his own sheep goin’ through.”
* * ♦ *
“A.E.S.”: What Tasmanians call the
grass-tree or pandanus is a wildflower
(B. 8/10/’52). When it is in bloom the
blossoms bunch near the broad base of
its big leaves. Its botanical monicker is
Richea pandanifolia ; actually it is
neither a grass-tree nor a pandanus but
a heath, and one of the world’s largest—
it’s a toss-up between it and Queens-
land’s tree-heath; both grow to 40ft.
There are eight species of Richea; all
of them grow in the Speck, and pandani-
folia grows nowhere else in the world. It
is a boon to hikers: in the wet West
Coast forest where it grows it’s about the
only certain source of dry tinder for
fire-lighting when the weather has been
even wetter than usual.
* * * *
“Jeeby”: If “Composto” wants a longer
place-name than those he quotes in his
par. (B. 24/9/’52), he will find it in
Camel Pads, by R. B. Plowman. The
name is Lake Cardavillawarracurracurrie-
appalamdoo, and the meaning is given as
“The reflection of the stars in the waters
of the lake.” Why is it that all contenders
for the longest name are lakes?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Barker was one of those
blokes who fancy themselves with the
mitts. After work he had a habit of
slinging a pair of gloves at somebody
and saying, “Come on. I’ll show you a
few hits.” Whereupon, if anyone took
him on, he’d dance around, spar, lead
his victim on, paste him lightly several
times, then land a
couple of solid ones.
When arrived
on tjie.-job a friendly
bloke warned Mat.
“You’re big and
likely - lookin’,” he
said. “So look out
for Barker. He’s sure
to want to show
you a few hits.”
Mat grinned. Barker
eyed Mat for a day
or two, then, “Come
on, I’ll show y’ a
few hits,” he said.
“Aw, not me,” Mat
declined. “Cripes, I
won’t hurt y’,”‘
Barker said. “Don’t
worry about that,”
Mat said. “Y’
wouldn’t have time.”
“Time! Don’t tell
me y’d run?” Barker
jeered. “No,” Mat
said coolly. “I’m
no runner, Y’
wouldn’t have time
because while you
was showin’ me a
few hits I’d be show-
in’ you just one —an’ that would be
plenty.” Barker believed him.
* * * *
“B.”: I had mentioned that I ran the
farm myself, and Bill heaved himself
round with a query: “What about shear-
ing, crutching and harvesting? And don’t
you ever get a bloke to do a bit of
contract fencing?” he persisted. I
admitted I got help for heavy seasonal
work. “Then you don’t run the place by
yourself,” he informed me. That’s how
the argument started. How it will finish
I don’t know—yet. I tried to point out
that a man can’t do everything. He’d
need to be a blacksmith, a mechanic,
shearer, classer, accountant, builder, vet.,
horsebreaker and a host of other things.
And why end there? Should a man make
his own harness, mix his fertilisers and
grow his own seed? Bill barged in to state
that if he could employ one man, he
could employ hands for every job. put
on a manager to do the worrying and
arranging, then sit in the pub and think
he was running his. own farm. I was
thinking up a counter to that when some-
one separated us, but I still want to know :
When does a bloke run his own place?
“Unga”: The mag-
pies are back at the
remains of last year’s
nest in the black
pep p e rmint. No
egg-laying has yet
begun. While the
greenies flit around
complaining about
what they consider to
be the intrusion of
the pied family, two
adult cock magpies
sit and watch the hen.
At first I assumed
that one of the males
was a youngster from
last year’s hatch-
ing, but after watch-
ing Mrs. Mag. for a
while I suspect they
are rival suitors, for
never before have I
seen such a perform-
ance of showing off
on the part of any
female. The lady
gets into the flimsy
collection of sticks
that the storms have
left from last year,
and, keeping up a
querulous monologue
of soft squawks, be-
gins a series of un-
gainly pirouettes. As
“We got the whole idea from a kids' comic.”
she circles she picks sticks up in her beak
and drops them again or thrusts them
forcibly back among the others. This has
gone on for about three hours a day
for three days now, but must cease soon,
for although there are no new sticks being
brought for the nest, every now and then
the lady gives a coquettish toss of her
head, and, without looking at either of
the males, throws one of the sticks over-
board, whereupon one or other of the
suitors gives a noncommittal “Ahhk.
This throws her into such a frenzy of
circling that she has to spread her wings
full-span to prevent herself from cata-
pulting out of the nest. f
* * * *
“Composto”: In 1893 the Bendigo wax-
plant, Eriostemon obovalis, was recorded
as growing in South Australia. Since
then naturalists and botanists have
searched for it in vain <in the Central
State until the other day, when a party
of scientists from the Waite Institute dis-
covered several acres of it blooming near
Mt. Remarkable in the lower Hinders
Ranges. S.A. field naturalists are now
busy raising money to fence the patch in
to preserve it.
* * * *
“Mingari”: According to the Mussul-
man legend, the camel’s stately gait and
supercilious expression (B. 17/9/’52) arise
from the fact that the camel alone knows
the Hundredth Name of God, and if he
only chose to use it this powerful talis-
man would give him dominion over all
living things. The priceless piece of in-
formation was acquired direct from the
lips of the Prophet by his favorite riding
camel, Ayesha, and passed on by her
to the rest of the race. In the intervening
centuries, of course, quite a number of
other names have been poured into their
ears, names that should have wiped off
quite a bit of that sneer, but as they
haven’t I can only presume they’re not
the right kind.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: The stationmaster and the
ganger in Piangil (Vic.), which had no
pub, used a combined conveyance. Joe,
the ganger, had a horse but no jinker.
Bill, the S.M., had a jinker but no horse.
By pooling their resources they made,
every Saturday afternoon, the four-mile
trip to cross the Murray into Tooleybuc
(N.S.W.), which had a pub. One day,
coming back, an argument broke out and
Bill told Joe to take his blashted horse
out of his, Bill’s, jinker. Joe promptly
ordered Bill to take his jinker away from
behind his, Joe’s, horse. It brightened
Piangil when they got back there: Joe
in front leading his horse and Bill in the
shafts dragging his jinker.
* * * *
The first Maori “medicine
bundle” ever found was discovered this
year in a small rock-opening near
Middlemarch, Otago, by a member of the
Kidd family who had previously found
wooden bowls used for preserving food
and under them two folded, cured skins
of the Maori dog, long extinct. The
medicine bundle lay in a bowl made from
a human skull, and comprised sprigs of
koromiko or veronica tied with a braid
of human hair. In a plaited flaxen kit
near by were scarlet feathers of the kaka
or native parrot, also tied with hair, along
with a fragment of cloth made from the
inner bark of a tree —possibly the ante,
now never seen. Any part of the head,
including the hair, was sacred to the
Maoris. When the hair was cut, the cut-
tings were buried or hung up in trees.
Any insult to the head demanded revenge.
A chief wanting to reserve anything for
his own use tied one of his hairs around
it, which made the article tapu. If a
storm at sea were encountered the leader
of the canoe would pluck a hair and cast
it overboard to placate the god of storms.
The true Maori dog, named the kuri, was
brought with them from Hawaii. The
skins were used for chiefs alone, and as a
border for their beautifully-handwoven
flaxen cloaks.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Emel”: Cheesemaking seemed simple
years ago on our Victorian farm. The
big tubs of milk thickened with rennet,
the breaking-up of the curd and straining-
off of the whey, then the pressing of
the curd in its- cheesecloth container. My
father mortised a hole in a convenient
box-tree, inserted a spar with a weight
on the other end, and under this pressed
the double metal cylinders, lidded at both
ends, which shaped the immature cheese.
When completely pressed, the cheeses
were set on a shelf to mature. The best,
I recall, were those made just as the grass
ran up to seed. Later ones, though made
of whole milk, grew mqre and more
“skim-milk” in flavor as the season
advanced.
* * * *
“Harbel”: It was one of those fights
that just have to happen—the pair could
never agree about anything. Even their
physique and general appearance were
completely diverse. Splinter’s 10-stone
was distributed over about 6ft. of skinny
frame and gangling limbs; Nugget pulled
the same weight but was built like a
butter-box. After the first flurry the
fight became a series of long-range prods
on the stumpy one’s nose until head-
down rushes brought Nugg in close
enough to land a couple. Splinter didn’t
share Lord Nelson’s views on the merits
of closer action; it merely inspired him
to wrap yards of arm around his
opponent and hang on. Caught like a
bull-ant in a spider’s web, Nugget was
still doing all right in the clinches, except
that some burly stranger kept rushing in
hollering “Break, break!” and dragging
the combatants apart —with subsequent
damage to the short bloke’s nose before
he could get close again. In the sixth
clinch Nugg refused to step back.
“Break! Break! Break!” shouted the
self-appointed referee, yanking madly.
The sawn-off turned to the mob in rage.
“Gor’ strike me roan! ” he roared. “Can’t
you keep this mug out of it? Who does
he think he is—Lord Tennyson?”
“DEN”—A MEMORY
There’s a bloke gone up the road just now
With the sunbeams on his back;
And there’s never a line or care on his brow
As he plods by fern and track.
He’s wearing leggings, his arms are brown,
His blue shirt’s free at the neck;
He’s been to the mail where the Mount looks
down.
And has a Micawber cheque.
He fills his pipe and the blue smoke climbs
And drifts to the forest wide.
By the look in his eyes he’s making rhymes
As he walks where the red roads ride.
He enters his place by the sawdust-heap
(That Toolangi shack of grey),
Past the wombat’s hole, where the wattles sweep
And the parrots are making play.
And now to the creek for a blackfish, too,
For a succulent, simple tea,
Then a log on the fire, as bush-blokes do;
For a fire’s good company;
And a pad on the knee and a pencil sharp,
And his dog at his feet by the fire —
So “Den” the poet now strings his harp,
And writes to his heart’s desire.
Oh. the night is sweet and thoughts run long
And the peace is wide and deep;
And the mountain creek now makes its song
While the dog and the poet sleep.
The Bloke goes down to the post next day,
Fresh fame and a cheque to win:
The coachdriver takes more verses away,
Addressed to “The Bulletin.”
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD.
1834
1
1952
u/ „
(/1/ hen you bank with The Com-
mercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited your banking matters are
in the hands of men who can
appreciate your problems.
This is equally true whether an
account be a modest personal one—
or the account of a large concern.
The manager of any branch of the
Bank will gladly tell you about the
Bank and the facilities and service
it offers.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
,TISW
bH ;,.atica
SCI*
UB' TIS
I
bac°
uO^ 1
fROW
reua
in*'
£EP b ‘
TRADE MARK
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED BY
DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in
America, Canada, England
and now in Australia. Dol-
cin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms
of Arthritis, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuritis, Fibrositis
and Lumbago. Prolonged
Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply
of blood and oxygen to the
affected tissues. Many thous-
ands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people
who had given up hope of
ever getting relief, are now
active again—able to work
—thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in
tablet form.
ARTHRITIS
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
KB TABLETS FOR 12/S
DOLCIN
DOLCIN is obtainable from
your Chemist.
J/121A
Informative literature on Dolcln
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box ISS2,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Business. Rollery. etc.
COSTS THE KEY
A fear that hangs over all
industry today is the growing
burden of costs. True, the latest
basic-wage increase averaged
only 4s. a week in the main
industrial centres, as against 12s.
three months ago. But we have
arrived at a critical stage in the
conflict between costs, prices and
credit, and with some increase in
unemployment and a falling-off
in public-works expenditure there
are sections of the community
all for the turning-on of the
inflationary tap again, more
especially through the Common-
wealth Government budgeting
for a deficit and financing it
through the issue of Treasury
bills.
High costs are already pricing
us out of the export market for
many of our products. At a time
when some other countries are
reducing their prices, Australia
is finding it difficult to do so
because of inflating wage and
transport charges. It is signi-
ficant, however, that with jobs
harder to get worker-efficiency
has improved in some industries,
with the result that it has been
possible for the industry con-
cerned to absorb most of the
huge increase in wages over the
past 18 months and maintain its
profits. But rarely have profits
of industry been big enough to
ensure the reproduction, let alone
expansion, of itself. There has
been a sad depletion of capital
assets in both private enterprise
and public works.
The fact that in some cases
higher worker-efficiency has
offset wages carried to higher
level by a previously-created
inflationary momentum is some-
thing for all concerned to ponder
over. It points to the fact that
higher output per man per week
is really the solution of most of
our cost, production and
standard - of - living problems.
Should production per working-
week be further increased by the
working of more hours it is
highly probable that wage-
inflation will be checked effec-
tively, and with the checking of
this upsurge in costs greater con-
fidence will return to investors
and to industry, with a full
revival of employment. But there
is no question about the neces-
sity of higher man-hour output.
Without it no citizen can look
to the future with the slightest
confidence.
One of the problems to be
overcome in improving worker-
efficiency is the fact that many
of our present-day trade-
unionists had a war-time or post-
war apprenticeship to their
trades, and they are unaccus-
tomed to diligent work. But in
this problem not only the
unionist is involved. In many
cases the employer has been
weak, sometimes because he was
a product of the inflationary
boom that ran in double-harness
with the “sellers’ market,” some-
times simply because he did not
have the moral stamina to stand
up to trade-union coercion. In
other cases he may have been
betrayed into submission (and
consequent inefficiency) by the
defection of other proprietors in
similar industries who were not
above taking his workmen from
him if he was involved in a strike
over wage-rates or other
conditions.
Whatever the reason, manage-
ment and employees now have
to get cracking together on the
job of increasing the quality and
quantity of their outputs and
reducing costs. With lower costs
and an adequate flow of goods
there is no visible limit to the
industrial expansion and employ-
ment potential of Australia. On
the other hand, with costs that
continue to increase we will
remain a race of industrial and
economic frustrates, growing
politically more divided and
socially more decrepit and
backward.
There are people who, in this
period of economic slackness
which now engrosses our atten-
tion, fear a fall in costs and
prices as a consequence Of
greater production. They are
the ones who want inflation back
again. Nothing could be more
fallacious or chickenhearted. We
are in the doldrums at present
not because of overproduction
but because of underproduction.
We have taken far too long over
the completion of public works,
which thereby have cost too
much and as yet failed to become
reproductive. There is a wide
market for homes and for city
buildings in Australia still.
There is an immense public-
works programme ahead of us.
Overseas, there is still a world
food-shortage. And, even if the
rest of the world should remain
in economic strife, Australia has
such industrial possibilities—
provided they are not wantonly
jeopardised—that our internal
economy should be largely self-
supporting for many years to
come.
Mfith a greater rate of produc-
tivity and lower costs the burden
“Twenty questions, Spike — animal, vegetable or
mineral !”
of taxation could be readily
reduced and credit could be more
safely expanded. “Social
security” could be made a fact,
and not just the mirage it now
is. We could divert more of our
effort to reproductive capital
purposes without lowering our
living-standards —we would have
production to spare for capital
assets as soon as consumer-
demand was satisfied. But with-
out a surplus of production over
consumer-demand there can be
no real investment from
indigenous sources. And we
have many lag-years of industrial
and governmental investment to
make up, which calls for a great
effort by the Australian people.
None of these things are
beyond our capacity. But we
shall have to work hard to
achieve them. Still, at the worst,
no more effort is asked of Aus-
tralian unionists than was asked
of them before the war. And
nowadays they are assured of a
greater proportion of the fruits
of their efforts, even allowing for
the part of production that
must obviously be ploughed back
into industry.
The first objective, let it be
repeated, is to start getting costs
down and production per
worker up.
Woolcott Forbes
At the continued examination
in bankruptcy of the affairs of
John Woolcott Forbes (Louis
Brandi), William Atkinson said
he had become a director
of Mt. Eba Gold Mines,
Ltd., when G. D. Wharton,
broker for the company,
told him he was too busy
to take the post himself. He
said that a lot of shares in Mt.
Eba which were sold belonged
to investment companies about
which the Registrar has already
been making inquiries. These
companies were trafficking in
them, and were making a market
for Mt- Eba shares. The
company produced no gold.
Woolcott Forbes, who had
previously been threatened with
jail by Clyne, J., if he did not
explain where £7845 paid for
31,380 ss. shares in Irving
Investments Pty., Ltd., came
from, said that Syndicate Mining
Options Pty., Ltd., had advanced
the money to Irving Investments
at its formation. The shares
were put in the name of Murray
Guy Smith as nominee. Some
of the shares were later sold
to a man named Paterson, which,
Forbes said, was a fictitious
name for Jack Miller, a Mel-
bourne bookmaker. Some were
sold to “C. Ryan,” who was a
Mrs. Johnson. She had selected
her own pseudonym. Some
more went to Stewart Dawson
(correct name); others to “A.
Williams,” who was Joe
Matthews, the bookmaker,
Forbes said he was sure the
money was put into the com-
pany’s account.
Shares transferred to “S. Dick-
son” really went to Mrs. D.
Munro. With one exception,
purchases of this parcel of scrip
were in fictitious names, Forbes
agreed. He arranged subsequent
transfers, but had not seen the
books for five years.
Fictitious names were
numerous in the books. “Mary
Brackett” in the company’s
register was Mrs. Forbes, as
was “Mary Brackett-Smith.”
But some of the fictitious names
even baffled the bankrupt
“financier” himself: “James
Edwards, Ord - street, Perth,
sometimes Edward James?” “I
can’t work him out at all. I
think it must be the same as
Murray S. Edwards.” Forbes
said he would have to make
further investigations into some
of the fictitious names, adding
that he thought Edwards might
be “either Dr, Hennessy or one
of Jack Miller’s nominees.”
Forbes said he managed
Capital Investments Corpora-
tion until about 12 months ago.
He had been “sacked last
Christmas.” The chairman of
directors, who Mr. Manning, for
the Acting Official Receiver, sug-
gested was only a dummy,
thought that the publicity he
(Forbes) was getting was bad for
the company. Forbes said he
didn’t think he had had any
money from the co. since he
had been sacked. His wife had
been paying hi§ living expenses
since January this year. Forbes
then admitted he had since
received some money from
McConnell, a business associate.
He knew large sums had been
drawn from some of the group
of companies since he left, but
thought that the cos. had been
dealing in large cash sums in
Amalgamated Tin shares.
The examination has been
stood over to a date to be fixed
by the Registrar in Bankruptcy.
Sacrificing Imported Stocks
There’s a good deal of waste
going on in New Zealand
through short-sighted liquidation
of large quantities of imported
goods at prices which bear no
relation to replacement cost.
This means that sterling funds —
now nearly as scarce as dollars
—granted to Maoriland im-
porters and spent during the big
import boom are being partly
thrown away when the wise and
sensible course would be to con-
serve them as much as possible.
If bankers are partly to blame
for this improvident attitude it’s
to be hoped they will wake up
in time; but the urge to expand
turnovers as the main goal of
business is at work, too. For-
tunately, some of the more far-
sighted are strongminded enough
to keep clear of this form of
trading, and if they can keep
their heads they’ll set a good
example by turning down all
business that means a loss.
Later, when exchange funds
are more plentiful again, they
should be entitled to an extra
share for their sanity. Their
idea is that hasty clearances are
a great mistake and a national
as well as an individual loss.


Public Notice
1. PETER ANDREW TKACHENKO, State-
less, hom at Shanghai, resident five years
in Australia, now reading at 31 Marquet
Street, Rhodes, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
STveaMof
mams
-(O
99*
9*
0*
\o^ r a9S
<
• Every year a bonus year
• Prompt settlement of claims
classes of Assurances transacted
For service and satisfaction effect all your
assurances through the
AUSTRALIAN
rt » rd ■■ ■!
ASSURANCE COMPANY IT®'
HUNTER. AND 6Li (rH IS TRE E T f SY 0 N EJk
facorpoiated to Quamti/,^
LARGE BRICK MANSION HOME
In elevated and Healthy position, one hour’s comfortable
drive west of Sydney. Surrounded by over 150 acres of
PARKLAND AND GOLF LINKS.
Suitable for COUNTRY CLUB, Retired Grazier or Gentleman
of Leisure. Excellent grazing for bloodstock.
FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS, 1000 “THE BULLETIN,” SYDNEY.
«H COM*
Invest NOW
in the
QUEENSLAND
;cmic
{TATE—ELECTRICITY COMMISSION OF QUEENSLAND
NO. 3
£41 5-
PER CENT*’
The Queensland State Electrlclty~Loanoffers ? an "oppor-
tunity for investment with absolute security in a vigorous
enterprise which has been endorsed two occasions
recently by the overwhelming support of investors
throughout Australia. The present loan is to continue
the work of constructing major electric power
stations and transmission systems to further the
Increasing development of the State of Queensland.
Salient Features of this Gilt-Edged Security:
rou CAN INVEST £5O OR ANY MULTIPLE OF £5O
PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST ARE GUARANTEED
THE QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT
INTEREST IS MORE THAN DOUBLE BANK
INTEREST
♦
APPLY WITHOUT DELAY > . , . through any
Stockbroker, any branch of the Commonwealth Bank, or
direct to the Office of the State Electricity Commission in
Brisbane.
♦
THE LOAN CLOSES 4th NOVEMBER, 1952
The Loan is Underwritten by J. B. Were & Son. Melbourne
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
To the many Toscanini
legends of shortsightedness, pro-
digious memory and the breaking
of batons upon cellists’ heads
another, highly complimentary to
British performance, promises to
have a permanent place in
musical chit-chat. It is this:
The maestro, hearing Britain’s
Philharmonia Orchestra for the
first time at La Scala, Milan, was
so enchanted that he at once
pronounced his intention of con-
ducting it in London. With an
arbitrariness that only the truly
great can command he settled
the programmes then and there
as the four Brahms symphonies.
More than 60,000 applied for
the 4000-odd seats available.
Such is^fame.
It is a pretty story which,
happily, contains much truth,
but that is not to say that other
factors were not at work.
Concert-agencies have long been
trying hard to persuade
Toscanini to renew his visits here
(he came every year from 1935
to 1939). Illness prevented him
last year after he had contracted
to open, musically, the Festival
of Britain. Moreover, he is
singularly unresponsive to
clamorous approach, preferring
to divide his time between his
adqpted home and his native
heath. Were it not for the inter-
mediary offices of his old friend,
Owen Mase, the negotiations
might soon have fallen through.
But come he did, perhaps for
the last time, and British musical
life is the richer and the more
invigorated from the experience.
It has also gained immeasurably
in prestige through the perform-
ance of this orchestra, unique
both in style and character.
Orchestra
The Philharmpnia is free-
lance and has no ties. Its origin
is due to an accident of war
which resulted in most of
Britain’s ablest young soloists
serving and playing together in
the R.A.F, f This gave Walter
Legge the idea of forming an
orchestra entirely composed of
the finest players available, with
every member a soloist in his
own right. Other principles, not
always fulfilled in resident or
co-operative orchestras, included
no “passengers,” adequate
rehearsal - time and, most
important, no permanent con-
ductor. An orchestra that can
adapt itself at short notice to
the varying demands of a succes-
sion of international conductors
is truly an instrument of great
virtuosity. Another aim was to
promote such quality of per-
formance that the most distin-
guished players would compete
against each other for the honor
of playing in it, rather as sports-
men compete for international
caps.
That these major aims have
been achieved is evidenced by
“mint” gramophone records
alone, under the direction of Von
Karajan, Cantelli, Furtwangler,
Kubelik, Markevitch, Kletzki,
Dobrowen and others; and last
year’s tour of a dozen Euro-
pean musical centres was
triumphantly successful. The
Philharmonia’s latest, and most
exacting, experience leaves them
happy and proud.
Toscanini had four three-hour
rehearsal periods available for
the first concert (the first
and second symphonies and
the Tragic Overture) and
needed only three. (He never
prolongs a rehearsal more than
is necessary.) And, although he
brought his own parts with him,
marked according to his indi-
vidual interpretation, these were
not used until the actual concert.
One does not need to be a prac-
tising musician to appreciate the
sheer technical skill and adapta-
bility thus required from a body
of nearly 100 musicians. Nor,
indeed, to sense their genuine
satisfaction at the maestro’s nods
of approval and statement that
he was “very pleased” with
them. Never was there an
expression of higher praise,
[Coda: Australia is represented,
but only just, by a cellist, Nelson
Cooke, of Sydney. He is shortly to
be joined by Eldon Fox, of Mel-
bourne, also a cellist.]
Composer
In 1939 Toscanini conducted
a Beethoven cycle of six
concerts. The inference is that,
being now an old man of 85, he
agreed to the Brahms com-
promise because the four
symphonies could be compressed
into two concerts. Whether
Brahms can stand on his own
as a symphonist in the grand
manner is outside the scope of
these remarks, but the choice
has clearly disappointed many
concertgoers. A mixed pro-
gramme, such as Toscanini’s
protdgd, Cantelli, is now con-
ducting might have been more
fitting.'
This much is to be said,
though: Brahms waited until he
was 43 and a celebrated com-
poser before he wrote his first
symphony. After the emotional
upheaval oyer the Schumanns —
his love for Clara and distress
about Robert’s mental break-
down —he withdrew into intel-
lectual seclusion, with the objec-
tive of writing symphonies in
the classical tradition. He studi-
ously eschewed the strong
romanticism that pervaded his
other works and, side by side
with detailed study of Bach and
Beethoven, applied himself with
rather heavy seriousness to com-
posing music that was ostensibly
devoid of sensory or emotional
appeal. Fully mature as a com-
poser, he directed his creative
energy primarily at the intellect,
regardless of his own natural
tunefulness and also of technical
difficulties of performance.
Pure music, in fact.
He either had not, or deliber-
ately avoided, Beethoven’s divine
momentum, which gathers heart,
mind and intellect into immediate
upsurge. The result is that the
four symphonies in a row make
a feast which, to the average
concertgoer, easily may become
indigestible. But certainly not
to conductor and players, who
plainly rejoiced in their mutual
prowess and maturity.
Conductor
Toscanini’s reputation rests,
we are told, upon two virtues:
He is able to project his own
immense powers of concentra-
tion into the players’ minds ; and
no other conductor gets so near
as he to the composer’s original
intention. Apart from obvious
physical frailty in gesture (he
uses the left hand sparingly and
often has to support himself with
it), and a jerky movement of the
baton (again due to age, no
doubt), there is nothing to
suggest the absence of telepathic
communication with his players.
Dynamism is the essence of his
impact: precise attack, a strong
accent and a togetherness that
charges the shortest rest with
utter silence. Of the later
symphonies he seemed to cherish
the third the more, nurturing it
with a special tenderness. The
wind-playing was nothing less
than inspired, particularly his
favorites, the horns and clarinets,
The oboes sounded a trifle
cloying-sweet, but the sonority of
the brass chording haunts the
memory still. The strings effort-
lessly ran the gamut of tone from
glassy brilliance to throbbing
C( * nt “ bile ’ but ’ perhaps because
of the keen acoU stics of the
Festival Ha fl, the violins seemed
to lack body.
Aether Toscanini this time
fulfilled his second claim is more
questionable. His interpretation
certainly was not Germanic. The
first, movement had no brio and
a slight languor, as of noonday
Italian sun, softened the cele-
brated F-A-F {“frei aber froh”)
theme. The E Minor symphony
was truer Brahms, particularly
m the third movement, while the
pass oca glia put this fine orchestra
on JtS mettle, showing sound
musicianship as well technical
dazzle.
The Philharmonia is not with-
out hopes that this honored
occasion may be repeated, on the
Continent if not in London
Anything may be expected of a
man who signs a 10-year contract
at the age of 85.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
U.T.9
It costs less when Experts manage your Estate. ..
■pFFICIENT management of an Estate is
dependent on the wisdom and experience of
the Executor or Trustee. In unskilled hands,
wastage and unnecessary expense may cause con-
siderable loss. The relatively small cost involved
in appointing the Union Trustee as your executor
may he more than offset by the careful, economi-
cal management of your Estate.
The specialised knowledge of a group of experts
in every sphere of Estate administration is
permanently available.
Charges, limited by law, are exceedingly moderate.
A confidential interview can be arranged to meet
your convenience.
Phone, call or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT COLUMN
R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd.
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Nom. Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£, £/£*£/
1951.. 59,316 8 p.c. = 41,709 15,607 56,241
From tax reserve, £2844 .. .. 59,085
1952.. 49,129 8 p.c. = 41,709 7,420 66,505
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (£28,795 at 30/6/’52).
Already the largest mass-producer of
builders’ hardware in the Common-
wealth, this concern, which had its begin-
nings in Sydney as a manufacturers’
agency in 1923, will soon be turning out
(in partnership with the Yorkshire Copper
Works, of Leeds) capillary copper and
brass fittings for the plumbing trades.
These save about 50 p.c. of the copper
used in hot-water and similar installa-
tions, and promise to be a big addition
to the business.
It was proposed last year to issue new
capital to finance the R. B. Davies share
in this enterprise, but the move was per-
sistently blocked by Capital Issues Control
for reasons that have never been ade-
quately explained, notwithstanding the
defence value of the new venture. The
High Court upheld the validity of the
regulations under which the issue was
held up, but C.I.C. subsequently gave
consent to the issue on terms satisfactory
to the company; the offering will be
130,341 shares, one for four at par, to
those registered on November 12, and
it will enable R.B.D. to take a 49 p.c.
interest in a jointly-controlled subsidiary.
Production is hoped to start in January
next; plant is already being set up.
Wherever possible the board has
entered into licence arrangements with
overseas concerns to manufacture their
products in Australia. Made under
licence by R. B. Davies Industries are
Victor rabbit-traps, L.C.N. hydraulic
door-closers, Schlage mortice-locks (a
new and attractive line very popular in the
U.S.A.), Eagle padlocks, Invizible sash-
balances and other items. In addition, the
co. turns out a mass of non-patented lines,
especially butt-hinges, handles, brackets,
etc.
Manufacturing began as far back as
1929 in a small factory at Annandale,
and in 1938 a larger factory was set up at
Marrickville, where a big munitions job
was performed during the war. A fire
damaged this building in 1938, but
activities, carried out on acres of
floor-space, had fully recovered by the
end of 1949,
In March, 1950, R. B. Davies Industries,
Ltd,, was formed and took over several
proprietary operating cos. For shares
with a face-value of £106,020 the new co.
paid £328,019 in ords.; there had been
9191 ords. already issued for cash ; and
the public was offered 100,000 ords. at
par. This made paid capital £437,210, and
the subsidiaries controlled comprised:
R. B. Davies Pty., Ltd.
Consolidated Hi-Lift Hoists Pty., Ltd.
Bristow’s Pty., Ltd.
Consolidated Engineering Pty., Ltd.
B. B. Davies (Export) Pty., Ltd.
K. B. Davies (Plastics) Pty., Ltd.
In 1951 the parent acquired all the shares
in:
W. H. Wells Pty., Ltd. (Melb.)
Wells Export Co. Pty., Ltd. (Melb.)
Victor Motor Co. Pty., Ltd. (Sydney)
Daw Pty., Ltd. (Sydney)
Following the acquisition paid capital
was raised by £84,157 to £521,367. The
new issue will carry it up to £651,708.
In the subsidiaries there is £74,500 of
7 p.c. and 8 p.c. pref. capital held by out-
siders. Of the original subsidiaries, the
Consolidated co. makes electrical hoists
from scwt. to 10 tons. Bristow’s trades
as metal merchants and distributes under
arrangement with one of the large base-
metal cos.
Last term turnover of the subsidiaries
as a whole increased, in spite of the set-
back in the building trade, but a falling-
away in the last three months was evident.
Net profit of the subsidiaries was greater,
but because extra taxation had to be paid
in respect of earnings of the preceding
year the result, as shown in the intro-
ductory table, fell by £10,187 to £49,129,
after setting aside £5715 as the interest of
outside shareholders. The net result was
equal to 9.4 p.c. on the parent’s capital,
compared with 11.4 p.c. in the preceding
year. The div. was kept at 8 p.c., and
£7420 was carried to visible reserves,
which at balance-day were £37,710 in
excess of intangibles.
The co. was carrying £57,131 more
stock (£423,552) at the end of the year,
and the outside debt (£302,294) was up
£47,268:
Consolidated Figures.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Ord. capital .. .. £437,2i0 £521,367 £521,367
Pref. interests . . .. 75,500 75,500 75,600
Reserves and p. and 1... 26,441 56,241 66,505
Secured creditors .. 92,156 134,210 174,692
Sundry creditors .. 100,345 120,816 127,602
Final dividend .. 24,966 41,709 41,709
Freeholds and plant.. 383,729 440,302 473,994
Stocks 283,939 366,421 423,552
Debtors 69,285 107,847 80,491
Cash, etc 522 6,511 543
Goodwill, etc 19,143 28,795
But finances are still very snug, especially
in view of what has already been accom-
plished in connection with the Yorkshire
venture.
The business has an efficient and pro-
gressive management, and its assets appear
to be conservatively valued in relation to
the public co.’s capital. The first quarter
of the current year has shown an improve-
ment in turnover on the figures for the
last quarter of 1951-52, but results must
in the end depend on activity in the build-
ing trade. No difficulty is now experi-
enced in obtaining staff, and worker
efficiency has improved ; helped by new
plant, this has enabled the co. to absorb
all basic-wage increases since December,
1951. But the co.’s considerable (and
commendable) export trade has been hit
because of increasing Australian costs and
the growth of overseas competition.
Tlie co.’s shares have an attractive
investment potential as a holding proposi-
tion. At 275. their ex-rights value is
255. 7d., at which figure the yield would
be £6 ss. per cent, if the 8 p.c. div. is
maintained.
Kelly and Lewis, Ltd. (Vic.)
(Parent and Subsidiaries.)
f — Dividends
Ist 2nd Re-
June, Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Amount, serves. 1
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1947.. 23,726 8 8 15,741 99,694
Tax arrears, £6694 .. .. .. 93,000
Reduction reserves, £4040 .. .. 88,960
Added intangibles, £651 .. .. 88,309
1948.. 25,771 6 5 6 24,260 89,820
Less reserve adjustments, £352 .. 89,468
1949.. 34,957 8 5 8 30,780 93,645
Revaluation reserve, £181,455 .. 275,100
Add net adjustments, £754.. .. 275,854
1960.. 65,291 8 5 8 30,780 310,365
To staff fund, £3OOO .. .. .. 307,365
Share premiums, £35,460 .; .. 342,825
Reserves capitalised, £30,800 .. .. 312,025
Less reserve adjustments, £179 . . 311,846
1951.. 88,120 8 5 10 47,552 352,414
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 342,414
Added intangibles, £8991 .. .. 333,423
Share premiums, £1750 .. .. 335,173
Surplus sale assets, £3594 .. .. 338,767
Amortisation, £6985 .. .. .. 381,782
Less reserve adjustment, £330 .. 331,452
1952.. 66,961 8 5 8 50,040 348,373
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. .. 345,873
At £66,961 (down £21,159) K. and L.’s
net profit last term showed its first
post-war fall. Remembering the high
rate of earnings for engineering concerns
in this period, some decline now is not
surprising. Profits were struck after allow-
ing £21,271 (up £3208) for depreciation
and £57,042 (up £22,473) for taxation,
figures which themselves suggest conser-
vative accounting.
Deducting preference dividends
(£11,880), the return on ordinary capital
was 11.6 p.c., which compares with 20.7,
20.3, 9.5 and 6.5 p.c. back to 1948. The
ord.-share dividend fell back to 8 p.c.,
which was also the rate for the 6-8 p.c.
participating capital. As the earning-rate
on capital and reserves combined was
6.4 p.c. last term, this class of capital is
not aiding much at present.
Owing to financial conditions, payment
of final dividends has been split 1 P-C-
-for the ord. (2 p.c. for the first-pref.)
capital to be made on October 31, and
2 p.c. (ord. and pref.) on March 31, 1953.
Unless changed in the meantime, this
practice makes doubtful the policy
towards interim payments, which are also
made in March. Price of the ordinary
shares has fallen to 19s. (325. 6d.
a year ago), to yield 8.4 p.c. on the
present dividend. At 245. and 17s. the
first and second prefs. yield 6.6 and 5.9
p.c. respectively. Book asset-backing is
345. 6d. for the ords. and £22 9s. Id. and
£6 os. 4d., respectively, for the prefs.
Kelly and Lewis operates eight manu-
facturing and merchandising subsidiaries
and two associated concerns. Originally
established in 1891, it became a public
concern in 1939, with a production reper-
toire of centrifugal- and axial-flow pumps,
compressors, condensers, steam and
internal-combustion engines and bridge
and other structural-steel work. Post-war
additions have been crude-oil tractors,
electric-motors and -generators, switch-
gear, pneumatic tools, laundry and dry-
cleaning plant and sectional-steel poles.
The addition of overseas agency lines in
diesel-electric locomotives, Lanz tractors
and other equipment has also added con-
siderably to earnings.
Since 1946 paid capital has increased
by £491,695 in cash issues of 130,695
ords. at a premium of 3s. each and
94.000 5 p.c. preference shares in 1947
and 159,200 ords. at ss. premium and
70.000 5 p.c. prefs. in 1951. These issues
brought in a net £60,376 in share
premiums. Assets were revalued in
1950, and after issuing £30,800
in bonus ordinary scrip (one for
10) and writing off development and other
expenses there still remains £173,706 as
a reserve in the books. Total reserves
against which intangibles have been
written off equal £345,873. Paid capital
is £687,000 in 46,000 6-8 p.c. participat-
ing pref., 164,000 5 p.c. pref. and 477,000
ordinary shares, all of £1 each.
The consolidated position is as follows:
Barest and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £420,000 £420,000 £680,000 £687,000
Mortgage . . 130,000 129,500 119,833
Overdrafts .. 322,783 169,591 137,539 221,276
Creditors .. 144,863 189,796 285,351 255,177
Tax provision 12,979 18,136 54,120 69,218
Final divs. .. 18,650 18,650 34,498 20,250
Freeholds . . 65,078 183,188 210,782 248,802
Plant . . 149,442 266,418 305,867 322,678
Stocks, etc... 537,931 513,839 600,956 795,896
Debtors . . 186,772 212,285 423,096 267,780
Investments .. 61,976 62,001 100,005 72,503
Cash, etc. .. 11.721 15,807 19,987 10,966
Paid capital increased through an un-
explained issue of 7000 ordinary shares
last term. Over the year debtors fell by
£155,310 and stocks rose by £194,940.
Extra finance (£43,896) came from out-
side, despite a reduction (£30,174) in
creditors and mortgages (£9667); the
bank overdraft rose by £83,737. Invest-
ments fell by £27,500, and £54,831 was
spent on fixed assets, mostly on free-
holds. Over the period the liquid surplus
dropped by £41,643 to £461,393.
The co. has built up a sound trade in
durable capital and consumer goods. Its
growth has been aided greatly by national
development and expansion in the en-
gineering industries, and here there is a
pause at present occasioned largely by the
uncertain (financial) future of the develop-
mental projects. There is also suspicion
of the economy’s rising cost structure.
Until the results of these trends become
more pronounced —both problems are
more-or-less under consideration —the
prevailing investment atmosphere as relat-
ing to the engineering and constructional
trades is likely to remain uncertain.
South Australian Portland Cement
June 30, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1942 .. 12,186 10 12,000 81,187
1943 . . 10,544 8J 10,500 81,231
1944 . . 13,710 8§ 10,500 84,441
1945 . . 7,745 5 6,000 86,186
From inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. 96,186
1946 . . 12,728 7* 9,000 99,914
1947 . . 11,481 74 9,000 102,395
1948 . . 15,012 74 9,000 108,407
Share premiums, £12,221 . 120,628
1949 .. 15,323 74 10,900 125,051
1950 .. 17,688 74 13,561 129,178
To staff fund, £1632 .. .. 127,546
Loss sale assets, £3OOO . . 124,546
Share premiums, £15,225 . , 139,771
1951 . . 23,281 74 15,461 147,591
To staff fund, £2303 .. .. 145,288
Share premiums, £30,913 . . 176,201
From tax reserve, net, £lOOl. . 177,202
1952 . . 27,291 74 24,672 179,821
To staff fund, £1590 . . • • 178,281
Profits shown above include minor unexplained
additions to reserves each year.
During 1951 S.A. consumed 70,000 tons
of high-priced imported cement in
addition to its own output (about 105,000
tons). Existing plant-capacities are being
expanded by 145,000 tons, so the question
of future demand is now important. This
is likely to be lower, temporarily, owing
to reduced public-works expenditure and
less housing construction, although how
much it will be offset by greater city-
building construction, on which restric-
tions have been removed, is yet to be
seen.
At present S.A. also has two hungry
State markets on each side of it, although
a new plant is being erected in W.A., and
greatly increased output in N.S.W. will
make competition keen on the Victorian
side.
At Angaston, S.A. Portland’s new plant
is well located for raw-material supplies,
and will have a maximum capacity of
100,000 tons. At Brighton output is
around 45,000 tons. Delays in machinery
delivery have held up the working of the
new plant, which was expected to start
last month. At that time full bag- and
bulk-cement production was anticipated
early in 1953, and a figure of 80,000 tons
for the year mentioned. Last term
£336,200 was spent on the Angaston
plant, making a total of £532,509 to date.
None of this contributed anything to
the company’s £27,291 net profit last
term, which resulted from an unvaried
output. The figure was £4OlO higher than
in 1951, after allowing an unchanged
£lO,OOO for depreciation and a generous
£13,820 more for taxation at £25,820.
The company is disposing of land
owned around Brighton. At a nominal
figure in the books, its value is greatly
in excess of this, and over the last two
years £15,348-worth has been sold. . A
subsidiary, Plant Disposals, Ltd,, has
been formed to look after sale of old
plant when the move to Angaston is
completed.
With so much capital tied up at this
point the profit-return was only 8.3 p.c.
on average capital, which compares with
11.3, 9.7, 10.5 and 12.5 p.c. back to 1948.
The 1-j p.c. dividend was unchanged, and,
after sending £1590 (down £713) to a
staff fund, there was £1029 of profits left
for reserves. At £178,231 this item also
benefited by £30,913 of share-premiums,
which came with the last call of 10s. on
243,255 £1 shares issued at a premium
of ss. each in 1948.
The fresh funds were used to finance
the new plant, but were insufficient for
final, completion and operation, so
182,315 £1 ords. were issued at par last
August. Half was paid on application
and the balance will be called in the new
year.
At last balance-date the position was:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £180,814 £180,814 £300,834 £364,630
Overdraft . . 18,546 30,564 157,176
Sundry creditors* 30,975 37,513 48,446 62,832
Final div. . . 6.400 6,781 8,681 13,291
Freehold
land . . 13,595 15,963 4,009 615
Buildings,
plant, etc... 131,191 139,684 293,669 625,206
Stocks . . 47,270 56,699 56,129 80,126
Book debts . . 19,078 28,742 32,917 44,357
Govt, securities,
cash, etc... 132,875 131,856 148,891 25,856
* Includes provision for taxation.
Besides the capital funds mentioned,


MINE MANAGER.
Applications are invited for the posi-
tion of MINE MANAGER at the
Company’s Mine, Kingston, near Bris-
bane, Queensland. A Degree in
Mining or Diploma from a recog-
nised School of Mines is desirable but
not essential.
Commencing Salary, £1750 per
annum. Free House, Fuel, Water
and Power. Fares will toe allowed
for self and family.
Applications, with copies of references,
and particulars stating experience, age,
marital status, should be forwarded to
The Secretary,
Kingston (Open Cut) Gold Mines
limited,
240 Queen Street, Brisbane.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney. '
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
kiip mom
SANDERS
d^FILES
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
vw
ffwsb
■
VSt
Sanders can be securely
. j . Price* and far-
bound and converted Into a (k , ,
»D«r information
perfect book ol reference at «poa application
the end of each month —or
any other period
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Go. (Aust.)
"World
Destruction"
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?”
Braille literature also available
for the blind.
The Secretary.
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
AMAZING NEW AIR JET
Bicycle Speedometer
Sea what speed you are
doing. Works same way as
aircraft speed indicator.
Clip on handlebars. Large,
easily read dial. Shows
speed up to SO m.p.h 12/6
posted.
48
ALBA ENGINEERING CO..
Box 32, P.O. Camperdown, N.S.W.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND JOHN BURR late of 97
The Promenade Sans Souci. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARY BURR has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2601 of 1952
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 6th January 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GORDON L. BEARD, Solicitor, of 92
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrars
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALFRED GAVIN late of
Waterloo. —TAKE NOTICE that ZBLMA
FRANCES GAVIN has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 2706 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearanc
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Bth day,of
January 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition free of charge from JOHN D.
NORTON, Solicitor, 393 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN MARGARET AGNES
ALEXANDER late of Harden in the said
State and of Shepparton in the State of
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that JAMES
LESLIE ALEXANDER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3712 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House Sydney New South
Wales by the 6th January 1953 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from' McLAOHLAN CHILTON & CO..
Solicitors, of 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Hivorck.
TO IRVINE JOHN GOLLOP late of 297
Crown Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that ELIZA MARGARET GOLLOP has
filed a Petition for Divorce'No. 4774 of
1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
Bth January 1953 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
GORDON L. BEARD, Solicitor, of 92 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys,* 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
HEW S.E.C. POWER LOAM NOW OPEM
The best gilt-edged investment
for your own gain and the
future of Victoria I
£498 interest
on £l,OOO
compared with only £lB3 if you
leave your money in a bank!
£249
interest on £5OO
compared with only
£125 from a bank !
£49
interest on £lOO
compared with only
£26 from a bank !
The great power expansion programme of the S.E.C.
offers you this splendid investment. If you have money
in a hank and want to increase your income with equal
security, you cannot do better than invest in this Loan
at the new high interest rate of £4/15/- per cent. Your
interest payments are guaranteed and will be paid every
six months, ensuring a regular income for the 10 J year
term of the loan. An investment of £l,OOO gives you a
return of £49B—a gain of £315 more than you can
expect from the best interest on a bank deposit. As little
as £5O can be invested at the same high interest. At the
end of the term, repayment of every penny you lend Is
unconditionally guaranteed by the State of Victoria.
Your investment in power is an
investment in progress ... apply today!
fs
m
interest
LOAN
Apply at any Commonwealth Bank , National Bank ,
Stockbroker or State Electricity Commission Office.
•3774
£126,612 was withdrawn from
the bank and £123,035 of cash
holdings spent. Book-debts and
stock increased by £11,440 and
£23,997, respectively, much of
the latter being due to increased
bag stocks and mill parts.
Continuation of the p.c.
dividend-rate is expected by the
board, which is reasonable,
remembering economies to be
afforded by the new plant and
existing demand conditions. But,
for more than this, long-term
prospects, to which the next two
terms will be vital, need to be
examined.
Still reflecting indigestion from
the recent issue, the market
prices the fully-paids at 21s. 9d.
(buyer) to yield 6.9 p.c.; the
contribs are at 11s. 4d. Net asset
backing is 265. 6d. per share on
book-values.
No Oil from Blair Athol
“Abdul Assiz”: During 1949
hopes that oil-from-coal would
become not only an operation of
considerable strategic value, but
would also pay its way com-
mercially, were raised in Queens-
land by the publication of a
report on the coal industry of
that State by Powell Duffryn
Technical Services, Ltd, This
report stated that hydrocarbon
synthesis, by one of the modern
variants of the Fischer-Tropsch
process, was the only method
which then merited serious
consideration. .
No coalfield was specifically
mentioned as a suitable site for
the plant, but the need for cheap
and abundant supplies of coal
and water was emphasised, and
it was recommended that an
immediate and comprehensive
investigation should be made to
determine costs of coal and water
at otherwise suitable locations,
capital cost of plant of the size
requisite to supply Queensland’s
oil needs for 10 years, possi-
bilities of inter-State and export
trade in synthetic liquid fuels,
potentialities of by - product
manufacture, such as ammonia
and methanol, and the overall
economics of an oil-from-coal
process.
This recommendation was
carried out, and, in February
last, Dr. A. A. J. K. Eskriess, a
director of Powell Duffryn,
delivered a report to the Queens-
land and Federal Governments
which claimed that high-grade
petrol could be produced from
coal at Blair Athol at a cost of
less than lOd. an imperial gallon,
and could be sold in Brisbane at
2s. a gallon.
The cost of a plant capable
of delivering, annually, 80 million
gallons of petrol, together with
20 million gallons of other fuels
and by-products, would be
£30,000,000. The report sug-
gested, also, that oil could be
obtained, at a higher figure, from
Victorian brown coal.
On October 20 the Common-
wealth Government rejected the
proposition, Queensland Premier
Gair stating that Mr. Menzies
had told him that the project was
not thought to possess a great
enough defence value to justify
Commonwealth participation.
The official letter of rejection did
not include this reason, but Mr.
Gair replied that any decision
should be based on purely
business grounds.
The refusal c,f the Federal
Government to put further public
money in any oil venture is not
surprising in view of its experi-
ence with the oil-from-shale
fiasco at Glen Davis. Further-
more, while the estimates of cost
made out by Dr. Eskriess may
be reasonable for U.S.A, (where
it is predicted that oil can- be
produced from Montana sub-
bituminous coal at under 10 cents
an American gallon) or Europe,
it may be anticipated that union-
dominated labor in Australia
would skyrocket costs, as it did
at Glen Davis, to an
uneconomic level.
The recognition by the Federal
Government of this unpalatable
fact is, probably, the major factor
influencing its rejection of the
Queensland proposal.
Coal Surplus
Since most privately-owned
New Zealand coalfields fell like
ripe apples into the State’s lap
in the post-war years, under
the triple squeeze of inflated
costs, controlled prices and labor
obstruction, things have settled
down in the industry, and today
Maoriland’s prolonged coal
shortage seems to have been left
behind.
The change has come about
quickly since production got into
a steady stride after the 1951
strike. For the first time for well
over a decade the railways have
more coal than they can store
comfortably, and N.Z. is look-
ing for export orders. Maori-
landers can thank their opencast
mines mainly for this, with pro-
duction now running at a rate of
close to a million tons annually,
or more than a third of M.L.’s
total output. Opencast fields show
a yield of four-to-one against
underground for every man em-
ployed, and have an average
above 2100 tons annually per
man.
Coalmining lost a lot of
ground in the post-war drift,
with output whittled down to
little more than 500 tons yearly
per man, against 700-odd tons a
decade ago, and there’s plenty of
room for recovery as the men
begin to put more muscle into
the job now.
Maorilanders felt the back.-
lash in chronic lack of fuel —
not only coal, but also gas and
electricity—and in skeleton rail
services. But for opencast
mines, opened up in a hurry,
N.Z. would have been in Queer-
street industrially. As it was,
several shiploads a year had to
be imported at heavy cost from
South Africa and India during
the worst phase to save the rail-
ways from being brought to a
standstill, and many locomotives
were converted into oil-burners.
Now the Railways Department
has the cost of re-converting
these same locos to burn coal
again.
With coal now almost a State
monopoly, the Mines Depart-
ment is in a position to gather
in most of the profits, but so
far its performance is nothing to
crow about. It isn’t making a
pot out of the industry—in fact,
isn’t much more than paying its
way. In contrast, Pukemiro Col-
lieries, Ltd., a prosperous 40-
year-old Waikato concern, which
is one of the few free-enterprise
survivors, has been growing fat
since the men began to pull their
weight again a bit over a year
ago.
This co.’s £26,325 netted for
the latest term (to Aug. 31) was
nearly treble the 1951 figure, and
covered the p.c. div. and
bonus more than twice over. If
Pukemiro can continue to set
this standard Maorilanders will
have a measuring-rod to gauge
efficiency in th® nationalised
fields; it will be something like
a hot pacemaker for the slowly-
plodding State department.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Suits were the most popular choice for
the Moonee Valley Cup meeting. But
there was a hint of fashions to come with
the shantungs, tie-silks, alpacas and
flower-print frocks a number of brave
women donned. But came the rain, and
gay umbrellas covered the cartwheel hats
and the summerweight ensembles.
The viceregal party made a ceremonious
entry down the straight and were received
by newly-elected M.V.R.C. chairman
Major-General Sir Samuel Burston and
the committee. Lady Brooks wore a coat-
dress in junior-navy, with white pique
collar and cuffs as elegant touches, and
her white straw hat featured a double
brim folded back in front. Lady Burston
chose a cinnamon-brown suit and match-
ing hat finished with veiling.
Very charming was the junior-blue
jacket-suit Mrs. A. G. Silk wore with a
white melusine flower-pot hat. Mrs.
Norman Lynch’s primrose silk Honan
frock was worn under a junior-blue coat,
and her wide-brimmed lace straw hat was
in yellow tonings.. Mrs. W. H. Hors-
frll’s wide-brimmed grey straw hat was
eye-catching. It was swathed with darker
grey chiffon and finished at the back with
a black velvet bow. Her suit was of
grey tweed. Light-grey was chosen for
Mrs. Frank Watts’s suit, and her white
felt hat was modified “Garbo” shape.
Mrs. Harold Kerr highlighted her dark-
grey suit with a scarlet carnation, and
hat, bag and gloves were in the same rich-
red shade. Mrs. Alan Bernaldo, just
back from a trip overseas, wore a smart
suit in brown-and-yellow checks, Mrs.
Constance Day topped her simple grey
silk shantung suit with a head-hugging
hat in cerise velour, green ivy leaves
trailed round the back of the small white
hat worn by Mrs. Alfred Fowler, and the
steel-grey lightweight wool frock Mrs.
Bill Gluth wore had an unusual dropped
shoulderline and a circular skirt.
& & V
Four Sydney mannequins are at the
Myer Emporium on a “lend-lease”
arrangement to display frocks for beach-
wear and races. They are Jeanette
Elphic, Michele Sefargy, Dorothy Dunk-
ley and Marie Roberts from the June
Dally-Watkins agency.
Most attractive outfit in the parade was
a sun-gold denim suit for the beach. The
half-masters were worn with a bra. top
and covered with a hip-length loose-fit-
ting jacket. Smart was the Capri suit,
which comprised a tangerine cotton shirt,
green half-masters and a bright yellow
fringed stole which the mannequin draped
across her shoulders and sometimes wore
as a head covering.
Of the race-wear modelled, two of the
most eye-catching were a thunder-grey
shantung coat frock, with the fitted bodice
buttoned to the waist and tije fullness
of the skirt achieved by pleats,
and a pap,er shantung frock in the new
rum-jungle shade. This also featured the
very full skirt, and was worn with black
hat and accessories. With a silver-grey
linen frock, citron-yellow straw used for
a hat of the wide-brimmed variety was an
excellent choice. Very youthful was a
short party-frock in ink-blue broderie
Anglaise with a short, very full skirt
worn over stiffened petticoats with a
deep fichu of white organdie finishing the
wide neckline.
More formal was the charming white
pique party-frock, starred all over with
tiny gold sequins. The neck was softly
rounded, the sleeves short and the skirt
long and full. To dance the hours away
a gown of moonlight-blue tulle over
taffeta was entrancing. The very full
skirt was decorated with padded satin
flowers and silver sequin stars, and there
was a wide matching stole which the
mannequin draped over her head. Next
came a shrimp-pink frosted with a faint
white circle pattern. This had a halter
neckline, and, as it was of organdie, the
skirt was wide and full. In more sophis-
ticated mood was a black taffeta gown
with a very wide skirt. White leaves were
featured on the bodice, with its shoestring
straps. Over it went a tiny jacket, barely
waist-length and tied in front.
#' V V
There will be parties galore next
month, beginning with those staged for
Cup week. Mr. and Mrs. Lionel New-
ton (he owns Free Kick and she part-
owns Lady Havers) have invited almost
200 guests to cocktails and buffet
luncheon at their Mt. Macedon home, for
November 2.
Invitations have been issued by
American Consul-General Henry E.
Stebbins and Mrs. Stebbins for an at-
home on November 15. This is in honor
of the American golf team, whose four
players, Jimmy Demaret, Lloyd Man-
grum, Ed Oliver and Jim Turnesa, will
make this city in time for the Melbourne
Cup.
Mrs. Ken Guest is president of a com-
mittee arranging a dinner-dance at Earl’s
Court on Derby Eve. All proceeds to
the society for the prevention of cruelty
to children. Lady Clarke is a member
of the committee and tickets may be
obtained from Mrs. P. Grage, 8J4664.
☆ ☆ ☆
This lovely picture of Dawn Ingram,
one of Melbourne’s best-known manne-
quins, was taken in Hollywood ( U.S.A.).
Dawn, who went overseas earlier in the
year, has had an eventful trip. In Rome
she went into the salon of Fontana to
buy a coat and they were so impressed
with her that she was 1 asked to model for
their spring show. Moving on to France
she displayed millinery for Madame
Maud, a partner in the house of Maud
et Nano.
The most impressive moment of Dawn
Ingram’s life came at the Windsor Horse
Show (Eng.), where she was presented
to the Queen. Of the Queen Mother,
Dawn says: “She is so radiant, so lovely.
One has to see her to realise how wonder-
.ful she is. No picture has ever done her
justice.”
In London Dawn modelled for Teddy
Tinling, lunched with Aage Thaarup and
went to Peter Russell’s cocktail-party.
But she was too tall to model in London.
Next came a breathtaking holiday in
Canada and New York, Hollywood, and
then home via Honolulu. Next year she
will be off again.
☆ ☆ ☆
A buffet luncheon at the Toorak home
of Mrs. W. H. Horsfall celebrated the
engagement of her only daughter, Gloria,
to Graham Ernest, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. E. W. Oliver, of Bacchus Marsh.
Graham, who manages Colembally
station, Jerilderie (N.S.W.), is a brother
of Mrs. John Bromwich. Gloria is one
of Melbourne’s prettiest girls with lots
of ability in homemaking. She wears
most-becoming clothes ; some of which
she makes herself. At the party were
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Randall and Mrs.
Randall, senior, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Watts, Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss, the
Reg Russells, Jim Turner and his pretty
wife, Mrs. Fred Irvine, accompanied by
son Ken and his wife. Gloria’s brother
and sister-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Hedley
Ladd, assisted Mrs. Horsfall in enter-
taining. The wedding is set for Dec. 6.
☆ ☆ ☆
Jennifer Russell is president of the
Lucky Horseshoe Dinner-dance to be
held at the Delphic on Cup Eve. Amanda
Grimwade and Louise Landale are on the
committee and Mrs. Peter Watkins
(U 1711) and Carolyn Buxton (U 3333) are
ticket-secretaries. Cartoonist Sam Wells
has done the tickets, which feature a
smiling horse in full evening-dress accom-
panied by a mare, also in glad-rags. All
the tables will be named for horses in
the Cup, and the winner of a phantom
broadcast of the race will bag a prize.
Country visitors will be welcomed;
tickets are five guineas a double.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. H. F. Creswick’s home, Yarrien,
Toorak, was the setting for a display of
floral arrangements by well-known host-
esses. It was opened by Lady Brooks,
wife of the Governor, and proceeds will
aid the Rose Day appeal for Free
Kindergartens. Lady Brooks was received
by Mrs. Creswick and Mrs. John Baillieu,
the latter hon. organiser of the display.
Lady Brooks wore a bouffant gown
of black lace with an off-the-shoulder
neckline, Mrs. Creswick’s choice was a
gown of emerald-green French crepe and
short matching jacket, while Mrs. Baillieu
chose black lace for her gown, which was
contrasted with a wide stole of pastel-
blue satin.
STIC NET
The show “In Honor of the Rose”
(for the Bush Book Club) was the event
of the week, attracting record attendances
to its preview and its two days’ occupa-
tion of David Jones’ Gallery. Nearly
all Sydney’s fashionable women turned
up to the preview (many of them had
flower arrangements on exhibition).
Lovely flowered small hats were worn
by Mrs. Jock Pagan (white azaleas), Mrs.
Hector Livingston (pink blossom), and
Mrs. Eric Pratten (green daisies). Mrs.
Ernest Watt, in black-and-red velvet with
one red rose, looked like a complement
to her own flower arrangement, “Inter-
lude.” Mrs. Lennox Bode wore a gracious
cocktail-dress of mist-grey organza. Mrs.
Noel Vincent was in black chiffon and
faille, with a small hat and gloves of
sub lilac.
At the official opening next day there
was a good attendance, including Miss
Barbara Knox and Mrs. Gregory Blax-
land (organisers of the display) and Mrs.
Tom Bateman. Noticed also were
Madame Regala, Mrs. Arthur Davis and
Mrs. Alan Potter, with daughter Barbara.
Much attention centred on the old-
fashioned roses displayed by Mrs.
Jocelyn Browne, which included moss
buds, rosacentifolia and an entirely green
rose. The table decorations seemed a
little skimpy, but the flower arrangements
were excellent, with the formal and
sophisticated pieces by Mrs. E. G. Water-
house in a class apart. The miniature
arrangements (many of them done by
Lady Lloyd Jones) were in exquisite little
containers, some in milk glass and some
in tiny altar-pieces from shrines found
on the Continent. The display of roses
was really magnificent.
☆ ☆ ☆
Denise D’Ombrain {in the picture )
leaves shortly for England, where she
will marry Dr. J. J. R. Herron, son of
Mr. R. J. A. Herron, of Greenfield,
Katesbridge, County Down, Northern
Ireland. Denise is the daughter of the
late Dr. E. A. D’Ombrain and Mrs. E.
C. D’Ombrain, of Roseville. After her
marriage she will make her home in
London. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
It is nice to know that Sydney is at
last to have an Epicures Club whose
members are women. The men, who’d
had a monopoly for so long, were really
becoming too insufferably conceited. The
members of the new club are mostly
women well known in journalistic and
advertising circles, more conspicuous for
their grey matter than their naivete, so
it’s surprising to hear that they propose
giving recipes for the dinners they pre-
pare, If this feature is a real success
it’ll make history.
☆‘ ☆ ☆
Meantime, the spate of books on Con-
tinental cookery continues. Hungarian
Cooking, by Elisabeth de Biro (Andre
Deutsch), should be greeted with interest.
Written by a thrifty European in rationed
England, its keynote economy—the
frugality becomes at times quite depres-
sing. > “Boiled Beef,” for instance, is
merely the meat left from the clear soup
garnished with the vegetables out of the
soup (boiled for an hour and a half, mark
you!) and served with onion sauce. It
would be hard to imagine anything less
appetising or nourishing.
Still, this is not representative of the
recipes, which give some interesting infor-
mation about the use of sour milk and
paprika in savory dishes and of almonds
and rum in sweets. The cakes, pies and
biscuits sound quite delicious.
☆ ☆ ☆
It must be gratifying to the garments
shown at the parades N of the Opportunity
Shop to see how people rush them (even
if they have “seen better days”). Last
week a large attendance of women and
girls watched young Sydney socialites
parade in the clothes, then surged for-
ward in what was practically a free-for-
all to buy them. The mannequins were
Mrs. Rex Money, Ann Livingston,
Jennifer Chapman, Marcia Moses, Judy
Rowland Smith and little Ann Tilney
from England. Mrs. Pat Levy, looking
the essence of chic, compered the show.
The sale and parade were in aid of the
Peter Pan Kindergarten.
# # #
The cocktail-party arranged by mem-
bers of the Red Cross Younger Set on
Friday at Red Cross House was a lively
affair. Margaret Gustafson, in black
with a pale-green hat apple-blossom deco-
rated, was chief welcomer, with Anne
McCauley, who wore a rather exotic ver-
sion of the basic black dress, as a viva-
cious right-hand. Among the young
lovelies assembled were Mary Hawkes-
wood, Lyn Malin, Maureen Hordern,
Jennifer Wallace, Anne Marie Moss,
Judith Parnell, Sheila Myles, Jackie
Schloss (with a new hairdo), Audrey
Nolan (in a cute little half-hat) and Sonia
Miller, who has just recovered from the
measles, which struck her immediately
after her 21st birthday party. The “men
about the place” included John Worth,
Gordon Stewart, Bruce Morgan, Ken
Wells and Len Lamers.
☆ ☆ ☆
In Italy at Christmas grateful pedes-
trians (those who survive, that is) shower
presents on the traffic-policemen. As
Christmas Eve advances the platform
on which the cop stands gradually be-
comes covered with parcels while his
smile grows broader and his gestures
more graceful. Nice thought. This was
one of the “Customs of other Lands”
which Mr. R. R. May mentioned in his
talk to members of the Australian-
American Association (women’s section)
on Friday. Color films of Switzerland
and Paris were shown.
☆ ☆ ☆
Merle Kendall, of the Dominican Con-
vent, Tamworth, won the Overseas League
oratory contest for young leaguers. The
results were announced at the league’s
Trafalgar Day party during the week.
Second were Carolyn McLean of Parra-
matta and Janette Paris of Rose Bay.
Maureen Flood, also of the Tamworth
Dominican Convent, was third. Subject
was “Why the British Way of Life Is
Best.” Merle Kendall, who will sit for
the Inter, this year, is very interested in
debating and public-speaking, of which
her school makes a specialty. For the
past 10 years its representatives have been
undefeated in debating contests with
schools in the Tamworth district.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the surest signs of summer
approaching is the voice of the barbecue
being heard in the land. The first of the
season —a cocktail-barbecue—is to be
held at the home of Mrs. Raymond Louis,
Lindfield, on November 1, in aid of the
Spastic Centre. There’s to be a parade
of swimsuits by Annette Dunlop, Judy
Pearce, Diane Goldberg, Betty Parrent
and Judy Ann James. It starts at 8 p.m.
and goes on “till you’ve had it” (to quote
the dodger).
Another barbecue being heralded is
one organised by the Dental Under-
graduates’ Association. A “Christmas
barbecue,” it is being held at Sunray,
North Sydney, on Saturday, December
# # $
A challenge to women? It is reported
that men’s entries in the handcrafts section
of the Royal Show to date outnumber
women’s by three to two. The 72-year-
old Rev. D. C. Hughes, retired Methodist
minister of Cremorne, has already entered
a crocheted supper-cloth (with 180
medallions), a crocheted bedspread, a set
of table-mats, a crocheted bath-mat and
a macrame string-bag! If the quality is
up to the quantity that will be hard to
beat.


Public Notices
I, STAYROS STEVNS SALAKAS, of
Greek origin, Italian subject, born at
Castellorizo, Greece, resident 26 years in
Australia, now residing at 58 Mintaro
Avenue, Sth. Strathfield, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, JAN SCHUILING, of Dutch nationality,
born at Rolde, Holland, resident two years
in Australia, now residing at Hawkesbury
Road, Springwood, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Missing Friend
TO IVOR CHARLES WILLIAM DRUM-
MOND known as IVOR CHARLES WIL-
LIAM POWELL formerly of 12 Cole
Street Elwood in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife VERONICA DRUMMOND
of 9 Anketell Street Coburg in the said
State Married Woman has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for Divorce on the
ground of your desertion UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office Law Courts William Street Mel-
bourne in the said State on or before
the 20th day of November 1952 the said
suit will proceed in your absence and a
Decree for dissolution of marriage may
be granted and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend this suit
you must file an answer in the said Office
on or before the 30th day of November
1952 —CLEARY ROSS & DOHERTY, of
40 Queen Street, Melbourne ’aforesaid.
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
msm
ms sk
3 mg.
m
c Sf
I*
VV~-
Frenzied peasants attack sky monster
Paris, 27th August, 1783
I ONSIEUR MONT-
GOLFIER’S first
hydrogen balloon,
released on the Champs de
Mars in Paris, came down at
Gonesse. Excited rustics
mistook it for some mon-
strous devilish beast and,
encouraged by two monks,
attacked it with pitchforks
and flails until it was quite
deflated. The tattered re-
mains were tied to a horse’s
tail and dragged away.
We can imagine M. Mont-
golfier’s statement to the
Press. “This shows how far
aviation has to go before
flying machines become
commonplace. When they
do, of course, proper
arrangements will be needed
for their reception. And
somebody will have to in-
vent the BP Aviation service
to refuel them quickly and
efficiently.”
AVIATION
df
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States. .
An Associate of Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, Limited, England.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Artbursts
G. K. Townshend
So much sloppy painting is
exhibited around Sydney these
days, sometimes experimental
and sometimes merely incom-
petent, that it is an extraordinary
pleasure to see G. K. Towns-
hend’s watercolors ,at the
Grosvenor Galleries, with their
craftsmanship unmistakably of
the highest quality. Here, what-
ever else may be said, is the
work of an artist.
An artist is a man with a
vision and a technique. The
world has been arguing for
centuries which should come
first. But the answer, of course,
is both ; they should come, as
they do here, simultaneously.
Though his craftsmanship at
his best is flawless, Townshend’s
vision isn’t of the kind that
shakes the universe. It lacks
delight and gusto. Nevertheless
it is there ; it is distinctive ; and
it has the attraction of a cool
and quiet harmony.
Though he has sometimes
caught remarkable impres-
sions of grey days in French’s
Forest, and though his drawing
of the-countryside is meticulous
in its accuracy, his vision does
not seem to this reviewer to be
essentially concerned with
nature, but with the possibilities
of watercolor technique: certain
harmonies of grey and sombre
blue, certain dramatisations of
cold lighting-effects striking
through clouds on to grey and
green landscape. His trees, his
barns and his paddocks are all,
as it were, a code of symbols by
which he expresses the almost
abstract harmonies which are
the essential content of his art.
But the difference between this
and “pure” abstract art is that
Townshend’s, because it is
related to nature, makes sense.
This one-man show—his first
for many years —displays him
in more variety than might
be expected from his contribu-
tions to the Watercolor Institute
and the Royal Art Society over
the years: notably in the light-
ness of approach and effect to be
seen in “Near Kiama” and
“Gerringong” with their delicate
pale-greens. But it is half a
dozen beautiful examples of his
greyish or sombre landscapes
that remain the most impressive ;
among which “Windsor
Country” stands out as a most
striking and individual piece of
work, equally effective for its
dramatisation of light on the
cottage and barn and for its
suavity of color when the green
paddocks flow into the darkness
of shadow.
Talkies
“Pagliacci”
An Italian film of “Pag” with
Gobbi as both lovers, Afro Polo
as both Canio and Prologue,
Filippo Morucci as Harlequin
and Gina Lollobrigida as Nedda,
with a Roman orchestra and
chorus conducted by Giuseppe
Morelli, must be considered
authoritative, and, films being
what they are, and Italians being
among the most intelligent
makers of them, must be about
the best that can be done with
this small opera.
And that is very fine indeed.
The crowd scenes recalled in
(Frith model )
G. K. TOWNSHEND
black-and-white, which seemed
more like sepia, similar things
done in color by the French
impressionists ; so did the mqunt-
ing of the little play-within-a-
play ; and every now and then
in groups and close-ups one was
confronted by compositions that
might hang in any gallery of
Italian masters: none more so
than in the studies of Lollo-
brigida, a popsy whose beauty
was anything but as forbidding
as her name. “What a lovely
little face!” said the woman
who accompanied one, as Nedda,
with her skimpy blouse half-off
her shoulders, and heaving
breast, spoke those words with
mouth and eyes that women
usually keep for less public
places. To which one could
reply only “Is that all?”
There was a difficulty, especi-
ally in open-air scenes, in believ-
ing that the glorious voice from
behind the screen was really
issuing from that exquisite
mouth ; but anyone who wants
to listen to opera, on stage or
films, must be prepared to accept
conventions: certainly the young
lady’s performance in the bush
with Gobbi was a model of what
young wives should not do —
every gesture and inflection of
the no that means yes, and the
retreat that is an advance, were
so perfectly conveyed, leading
the audience so surely from point
to point of her capitulation, that
one was hardly conscious of
listening to music or watching a
screen.
For the rest, the story of the
clown who, urged on by an
envious hunchback, killed his
wife and her lover in the climax
of their nightly performance is
as simply and powerfully done
as its stage original. A film-
prologue, showing Leoncavallo
thinking it all up, seems to have
been omitted ; but the Prologue
is done very beautifully by Polo,
much more softly and reason-
ably than in some recordings
that have been made. (Sydney
Savoy).
❖ ❖ *X*
“The Sound Barrier”
In this English production at
Sydney Embassy Sir Ralph
Richardson is the millionaire
aircraft manufacturer whose
consuming vision is the piercing
of the sound barrier ; Ann Todd
is his daughter who can’t see
that the vision is worth the sacri-
fice of her test-pilot husband,
whose experimental jet shrieks
towards the earth and leaves
nothing but silence and a great
smoking crater in the ground ;
Nigel Patrick is the husband and
John Justin his successor, who
hurls his bucking, shuddering air-
craft through the barrier, neither
of whom can explain the feel-
ings that keep them trying to out-
strip the speed of sound.
The play is by Terence Rat-
tigan, and the players have no
difficulty in giving stock replies
to the stock demands he makes
on them. The jets, their slim,
pencilled shapes sweeping and
slipping above the sunlit clouds,
are the most convincing per-
formers ; so much so, in fact, that
there seems to be something in
the remark of the R.A.F. pilot in
the film who, hearing for the first
time the whistle and wail and
roar of a jet-engine from the
test-bench, describes it as
“the most exciting sound
I have ever heard.”
<£♦ ■*£*■ ♦♦♦
Other current Sydney
talkies: “The Dark Page”
(Victory) Broderick
Crawford as an editor with
a past; “Ten Tall Men”
(State)—Burt Lancaster in
the Foreign Legion ; “My
Outlaw Brother” (Capitol)
—Mickey Rooney and
bandits in Mexico; “Dream
Boat” (Regent) Clifton
Webb in some amiable
business as a respectable
professor whose days as a
great ham of silent films
are embarrassingly revived
by television; “Lydia
Bailey” (Mayfair)—Tech-
nicolor period-piece of
Napoleon v. Haiti; “Wait
’Til Sun Shines, Nellie”
(Century) Jean Peters and
David Wayne in 50 years of
sentimental smalltown history;
“San Francisco Story” (Park)—
Joel McCrea cleaning up the
sinful old town, and Yvonne
de Carlo for decoration.
Stage and Music
“Crime and Punishment”
Hana Pravda, the Czech pro-
ducer, made a magnificent job at
the Union Theatre, Melbourne,
of Rodney Ackland’s dramatisa-
tion of Dostoievsky’s novel, and
she was ably aided and abetted
by her company, the Tana. Even
the children clinging for security
to their mothers in the squalid
environment of the St. Peters-
burg boarding - house were
natural and unselfconscious, and
Douglas Kelly, the Melbourne
actor, set new standards with his
portrayal of Raskolnikoff.
Peter Lorre, in the film, made
the murderer of the pawnshop
woman a textbook neurotic. Mr.
Kelly made him an idealist who,
granted his strange premise that
some privileged men have the
right to decide who is a useful
human being and who is not and
are thus entitled to destroy the
rest, acts quite logically. He is,
however, not in the least like a
Napoleon or a Hitler, Mrs.
Pravda’s interpretation notwith-
standing.
When Raskolnikoff reviews
what he has done he reviews it in
terms of the laws of God and
he goes to pieces. Mr. Kelly gave
a brilliant description of his con-
flict, and when he met the chief
of police over the dinner-table
and the C. of P. proceeded to
analyse his conflict for him there
was acting of the highest order.
“Twelfth Night”
Clever use of an apron-stage
made possible slick and silent
scene-changes in Frank D.
Clewlow’s production of
“Twelfth Night” for Hobart
Rep. at the Playhouse. The con-
tinuity and pace thus gained, and
the excellent teamwork of the
comics, resulted in an hilarious
if not altogether faultless
production.
Outstanding were Hal Porter,
who was completely captivating
as the foolish knight, Sir Andrew
Aguecheek, and John Moore,
obviously in his element as Sir
Toby Belch. Flashes of brilliance
punctuated Roger Jennings’s per-
formance as “the madly-used
Malvolio,” though he tended to
melodrama at times, particularly
in the prison scene.
Good performances came
from Joan Harrison as Viola and
Keith Walker as Feste the
Clown. Lauder Lange’s Count
Orsino was weakened by
unnecessarily florid gesture.


LITTLE MISS MODEL
By
SEAFORTH MACKENZIE
NONE of his few friends
and few of his enemies
would have failed to
recognise the lame, untidy
figure of Willand Testament
struggling angrily up the hill-
side road in whipping wind and
sun.
His every second step, exag-
gerated by fury and despair,
made him lurch heavily lop-sided
to the right on the leg that.was
inches short of normal; and this,
with the distracted rage of his
face, neatly bearded, thin, bright
and sometimes handsome, gave
him the appearance of a malig-
nant devil in search of some yet
more evil purpose. In the cold
sunlit vigor of the wind, the road-
side trees seemed to lean
anxiously away from him. The
high clouds raced aloof across
the sky’s thin blue, and only his
shadow stayed unalterably with
him, lurching along fore-
shortened, mocking also his
helplessness of mind.
And in fact it was his grim con-
viction, in moments of distress,
that ever since his father had
indulged an angry irony in hav-
ing him christened Willand he
had indeed been badly handled
by fate,. His father’s anger, that
after several daughters his first
and only son should be born
crippled in the right leg, had
passed on to himself, and even
the years of artistic and popular
triumphs had had somewhere the
taste of bitterness and half-
defeat.
The trouble was not the usual
morning quarrel with his wife in
the dilapidated cottage out of
sight below. Its source lay
deeper; the dispute, of a sort to
which he was long ago used and
secretly indifferent, had merely
tapped open sealed springs. He
did not even care that he was for
the present a social outcast, and
an innocent one. He did not
care about the poverty caused
by a falling-off of the sale of his
work. He knew only, with
savage grief, that at forty-six he
was a mature artist, original,
notable, and that he could paint
no longer.
By accident, his wife’s familiar
sharp words had reminded him
of this which he had spent
some months concealing from
himself in the three-walled shed
he was using for a studio.
“Can’t even get a model, she
says?” he shouted suddenly into
the wind. A car passing him fast
uphill sucked away the angry
words and returned them to him
as a brief whiff of petrol fumes.
He glared after it and stumped
on, full of self-pity.
“A pity you can’t even get a
model, since Cora . . . Oh, I
know they’ll sit all right, but
the trouble is you can’t paint
them, Mr. Testament. You
might as well admit it... ”
It was the crude, cruel bicker-
ing of two ordinarily affectionate
people now at odds not with each
other so much as with angular,
distressing circumstances. He
went over it all, returning often,
in his mind, to his wife’s shrewd
gibe about the model and his
work. It was true, and he was
frightened.
Cora’s death had caused the
ruinous scandal of the previous
year, and in almost eighteen
months it had not faded, thanks
to one accursed city newspaper.
Even his complete exoneration,
in the coroner’s court, from all
blame, all connection with the
little girl’s death, had not satis-
fied that abominable rag, which
from time to time recharged and
fired its heavy pieces in defence
of artists’ models —“the poorly-
paid victims of debauched and
often abnormal
The memory of such language
in print, in a scurrilous, hypo-
critical sheet that was craven
enough to use “blood-poisoning”
for “septicaemia,” maddened him
as though he had just read it.
Scoundrelly pismires! Garbage-
wrapper copywriters! Scum,
scum! Poor Cora, whom he’d
never thought about at all except
when she was on the model’s
stand . . .
THE steep road turned round
a shoulder of the mountain
and plunged darkly between the
trunks of the big timber. Cleared
land, pasture, young pea-crop
and orange-grove were behind
and below him now, remote in
wind and sun from where he
stood in sudden stillness and
shade, looking back down upon
the way he had come.
Far away, his cottage crouched
in the light among its ragged
trees. Through the glassy air of
the high altitude, as through a
telescope reversed, he perceived
the diminished figure of his wife
going towards the cottage from
his studio-shed. Ha! he
thought: Snooping in the one
place she was barred from
entirely, the one privacy of his
formerly so public life. That
must be stopped, at once.
In a characteristic attitude —
standing upright on his left foot
with the toe of his right boot
swinging clear of the road, his
hands on his hips, his eyebrows
raised as though in surprise—
ridiculous yet arresting, he
shouted at her “Woman, keep
away from there!”
A mile distant, she could not
have heard him; but as though
she had, and were determined
to enrage him still more, she
turned and went slowly back,
slowly but unhesitatingly. He
could see it all. Helpless and
far away, he felt so angry that
he could only laugh, and then
sit down, so queer he felt: as
though his wife had been sud-
denly revealed to him as a
stranger.
After all these years—twenty
years of rapidly diminishing bliss
and slowly increasing depend-
ence ... He turned away, no
longer angry. All she would see
in flie ramshackle studio would
be evidence of his ultimate
incompetence. Poor Jeanie, poor
old sock. No wonder, he
thought, she hated him so often.
The need to sit down was now
imperative. He slumped heavily
on to a tree-stump left by the
roadmakers, but there were ants
in it. Farther up the road, where
in a second turn among the tall
timber it said goodbye to the
immediate valley, was a seat put
there by the shire council for
omnibus passengers and weary
climbers like himself. He limped
on towards it, hearing in the
forest stillness the merry going
of the wind in the treetops high
above him.
T"HERE was a schoolgirl sit-
I ting on the far end of the
wooden seat. Turning his back.
he sat down, unconsciously hid-
ing his crippled leg while he
looked with morose, self-pitying
eyes at the farewell view of the
valley and the plain framed and
overarched by trees. But in a
part of his mind not concerned
with all the aspects of his present
unfortunate life he was aware
of surprise that there were still
such things as schools and
schoolgirls, when he himself had
done with both years ago.
After a few minutes, worried
by the silent fellow-human
presence, he hitchecj. himself
round to have a look. Yes—a
schoolgirl, certainly, with one of
those ugly leather shoulder-
satchels on her back, a shabby
uniform of dark-blue over a
white blouse, and a matching
dark-blue hat which she wore
with the front of the brim turned
back, as though brushed up by
a hot, impatient wrist, to show
her whole face from brow to
neck. She was looking at him
as only a schoolgirl can look,
with a blank expression pitched
between oblivion and scorn, just
as if his disturbance of her un-
thinking self-contemplation had
irritated her.
Briefly it occurred to him that
for almost the same reason his
own look might be very like hers,
even to the faint hint of
insolence. Looking, he smoothed
his trim beard slowly, while his
professional regard, aroused in
spite of his gloomy mood, began
to flay back flesh from bone
structure, measure proportions,
analyse the colors of skin, hair,
eyes, lips and the whole facial
expression that was at once
mystical, bovine and wary ...
“When you’ve done staring.”
The flat statement, insolent
and crude, issued from the
imagined canvas on which he
was already busy and surprised
him profoundly.
“I never,” he said, “stare. So
shut up. I’m busy.”
Later he was surprised, in a
different way, to remember that
this answering rudeness of
address had apparently put the
schoolgirl at ease. Later still he
understood why. It was in
almost such a tone and just such
words she was spoken to at
home. It was the very thing, he
learned, from which, this late-
spring morning, she was in flight;
and so, naturally, in her
unfamiliar state of refugee
adolescent girlhood it was per-
versely reassuring.
It was, in fact, the best thing
he could have said, because it
made her feel “at home” in the
midst of running away. He saw
her face and body relax, with his
artist’s eye that missed nothing
in a chosen subject. Feeling in
a side-pocket, he found his note-
book, a pencil and a piece of
chocolate.
“Stay like that a minute,” he
said with authority, “I’ll just
make a sketch.”
Instead of answering in words,
she turned her back abruptly.
This second rudeness, all in a
matter of minutes, surprised him
again and this time made him
angrily impatient. He scowled
at her shabby back and the con-
cealing hat-brim from beneath
which depended a thick dull plait
of hair almost as black and
coarse as a horse’s tail, tied near
its end with a worn ribbon. She
was, he thought, not at all like
the shy but obliging schoolgirls
of his own young days. She
was not in the least pretty, and
she was ignorant and rude; but
he moved so that he could look
carefully at her face, and it was
a vitally interesting one to him
now, for, in some subtle way he
had not yet determined, it was
perfectly proportioned.
“Come on, miss,” he said
sharply. “I won’t hurt you.
Turn round and let’s have a
proper look. I’m an artist, and
it’s my job to draw pretty young
ladies. Turn round, there’s a
good girl. Here —have a piece
of chocolate.”
He flicked the wrapped
chocolate-bar along the seat be-
tween them to where she could
reach it easily; but she did not
move to let him see her face
again.
“Everyone knows what you
are,” her voice said suddenly to
the morning air. “You killed
that poor girl. Else why did you
come here to hide?”
F ROM that moment the situa-
tion between them became
fantastic ; although, because each
in different ways—he by nature,
she by virtue of her fifteen ripe
years was completely self-
centred, neither of them for one
moment realised this. That she
should have said what she had
said was bizarre enough, there
among the quiet trees with the
late-spring wind whipping their
highest branches; but that he.
Will Testament, should have
argued about it was to any know-
ing observer grotesque, laughable
—and yet characteristic.
“Nonsense,” he said coldly.
“You don’t know anything about
it. If you did, you’d know I
couldn’t possibly have been to
blame. When you’re a big girl,”
he said unkindly, “you’ll under-
stand how it was the poor girl’s
own fault. Nothing to do with
me—and anyhow,” he went on,
suddenly angry, “what business
is it of yours, may I ask? What
do you know about it? A kid of
your age.”
“I’m a girl, aren’t I?” she
said, turning with an anger of
her own. “And I can read. It
was in all the papers, and your
picture.”
“And do you believe every-
thing you manage to read in the
damned gutter-press of this
benighted country?” he shouted,
quite carried away and forget-
ting the original purpose of his
condescension in talking to her
at all. She was staring at him
indignantly, with an unexpected,
vital alertness; her eyes, he
noted mechanically, were of an
opaque blue color, very rare in
young girls.
“Everyone knows what artists
are,” she said more generally but
still with that desperately,
childishly-feminine anger. “Out
for what they can get, I didn’t
ought to be sitting here even,
let alone talking to you.”
“So,” he said. “So everyone
knows, eh? And how many
artists does ‘everyone’ know in
this Godforsaken backwater, for
God’s sake? Tell me that.”
“It was in the papers,” she
said. “All about you—who you
are and what you was had-up
for.” She spoke doggedly, with
the indignation dying out of her
voice at every word, and a
shadow not of the sun seeming to
fall across her freckled face
below the turned-up hat brim.
He made an unintelligible noise
of fierce scorn, momentarily
unable to speak. Had-up,
indeed! That in this miserable
hole with nothing but fences
and trees and mountains, fences
and trees wherever you looked,
he should have been identified
with his wretched misfortune!
“Now look here,” he said
when he could speak. “I was
not had-up. I was called as a
witness in a coroner’s court. It
was found that I was completely
innocent of anything connected
with my model’s death. Nothing
else was possible because nothing
else would have been the truth.
If you happen to know what the
truth is. Most little girls are
liars. Now run along to school,
and in future don’t be cheeky to
strangers.”
Again he turned his back on
her, and fell once more with
ease into the mood and posture
of gloomy self-pity; determin-
ing, for the last time, to shave
off his neat beard and
moustache, have a proper
surgical-boot made, wear tinted
spectacles out-of-doors and
above all to move to another
place. The thought of moving-
on frightened him now, while
his creative powers were
atrophied, as nothing had ever
frightened him before. He knew
that if he and Jeanie moved
once more, moving in flight, they
would never stop, he would
never work again. He set his
teeth like iron against the feel-
ing of despair that struck at his
very bowels. The sound of the
girl’s voice when she spoke was
an incredible intrusion.
“It’s you who was cheeky,”
she said rather hesitantly.
“Was I?” he said. “Then I
apologise. And if you don’t get
off to school you’ll be late.”
“I’m not going to school,” she
said,
“Then go home.”
“I’m not —oh, leave me alone,
can’t you ! ” This time her voice
was clearly distressed. He
turned, interested: a schoolgirl,
on a schoolday, not going to
school, not going home.
Wherever else, for heaven’s
sake, did a schoolgirl go?
Except ah, yes! —to the
dentist. In his youth he had
often been most grateful for
these schoolgirl trips to the
dentist ; for the hot December
afternoons in the long grass by
the river . . .
“Perhaps you’re going to the
dentist,” he said, suddenly
cheerful. “Perhaps it’s that that
makes you so bad-tempered this
lovely spring morning. Eh?”
SLANTING sunlight was
shining on her healthy
freckled skin, sideways across
her eyes. An interesting light;
it gave the face planes and
depths worth watching, though
you could not even for love call
it pretty ; and he was absorbed
again in spite of himself. Was
there anywhere another artist
who could paint it as he could?
With brief, bounding emotion he
knew there was not; it was just
suited to his own inimitable
brushwork.
“I’m —I’m —running away,”
she said, tears of alarm starting
to her eyes as she heard the
words aloud for the first time.
“What from?” he asked at
once. A mere child still, in spite
of her mature, and, he now
observed, almost opulent form.
Perhaps not a child, at that,
except in age; and what could
this age ever find need to run
from? It was, he remembered
dimly, the age of absolute
courage, most nearly-complete
self-sufficiency. Flight was as
out-of-character as objective
intelligence would have been;
when you came to remember;
unless, of course, they beat her
at home. Any child would run
away, he thought, if sufficiently
beaten; and he recalled with
satisfaction certain nice perform-,
ances of his own, crippled leg
(Continued on page 22)


inp
n
SMS
m
ii
. ~v
*3**s?
SS3
US
HI
Nx'-:
W»
sllliS
as:
K&
:?S:;
m
xiiiili^
swiiiiMi
*
m
»■&
U': '
5«S*5
5-m
Sis
; «;
v\
Sg
■'- ■ ■’ .. : ~'.. . . '
wmrnl^mmmmmm
- H f
m
m
iiMii
m
ZZ.y>y>
:■■
'> I
w
;5«
II
MM
' ,J|
liiiiil
i
ill
IK
Ms
|||| ■■■
M
'■:■<-■ 'SI
!»■
Mi
S«3
SMS
V'
iiSi
t v/4
•s?
BSSi
*
£2>
■*•.: \
i
v'M
■■■: X '.
<«??<
■
1
:> ;: -
ilii
wM
.
sgss
5 S
;v-'
■• ■
&
ssss
Sass?
*£' £ .
‘ : ~:■
3&V
3PMHM
;v^i
W | '•'
•v
S&fc
SSsS*
■
SxUM'-xv--'v
WMM
m
m
IftsSSS!
'<■:»
:<<<*&
:;M
i®iSfei
iSM
in
Hi
Ml
M&
..V-■ ■ ~w (
v:'
; s
•P
*-x;<
SSSSSsa?
mm
'* w v><'
Jiv?;
IM?
i-ivS
/• ,| y ‘*'
■
■
i-%^P
ills!
‘ : S
v ' 5 -'yM
■
mmm
WmtU
88l ; ®
SS^S?-
nsnmaiiMpw
K>' fi -t X ,<:V ' '
ili
111
&&S&1
as!
55%%
r;?/
SSa
:
:*v: : ;
SSS&S
ii
;
•" : -
WnS-
PS
mi
Si
sisl
iis
: ■,
■ \ i:
■
■
; i ; : •
i*i
■ •• - •: . *m
MiiiiPliiii
111
liiii
m
5 . ■:'
M»um
■
i*?*:
mm
mi
iff
■
mmM
■ 9
vii;i:ivv;'ii
«
'
MU
. ■ ■'
m
li
|
•"
■
, v/ v '
l isM
.
*
■' l rif/w
wm
*
W4M%
'- < : g
: //
wm
' ■ /
352
Ilii
st?
'Mssr™
■
■ ■
%-
x;:;
is®
• S
mm
wm*
m
mm
'■■;■;■
m-m
Mi
I -- V V »; i
: s
W
SSSS
s
• : :. y i :
:■/
i
; -
hmm
(i '
mmmsm
■; ■
wmm
LTD
mmm
r:- -:•:
m
lilililiitti
ASBOTSFOR
V
D
N . 9.
I CT O
i A


Now in Book Form
Illustrated by Norman
Lindsay with over 40
superb pen-drawings
Obtainable at bookshops, or
at “The Bulletin” offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or
Sydney.* Or post-free from
The Book Department
“The Bulletin”
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
7/6
e Letters
Henning
giving him a horrible drunken
gait, round the house, through
the garden and jeeringly into the
street with his sweating, infuri-
ated father, the small-town
printer, blacklisted, well in the
rear.
“Does your dad beat you?” he
asked, diverted by the. thought.
As he himself had never beaten
a woman in anger, he could not
see that it might be a shocking
and terrifying thing—even to the
one doing the beating. A little
heavy treatment was, of course,
good for all females under fifty.
“Nobody beats me,” she said
hastily.
“Ah,” he said. “That’s prob-
ably the trouble. You feel the
need of it, so you run away to
achieve it. Another form of
unsatisfied vanity, very natural
at any age, particularly yours.
How old are you, aqyhow?”
“I’d like to see anyone beat
me,” she said in a stifled voice.
“They could just try, that’s
all . . . I suppose that’s what
you did to that girl—beat her.”
“Never.” He sat up stiffly.
“Now don’t let’s go into that
again. Here. Have a bit of
chocolate while I do a quick
sketch.”
Unexpectedly, with tears roll-
ing down now, she
took the chocolate, unwrapped
it and broke off a piece to put
between her trembling lips—
pleasant, thick lips, he saw, when
pot set in lines calculated to
repulse familiarity ; a good color
and eager for the chocolate in
spite of the crying.
Ignoring the signs of grief, he
began to draw, thinking with
satisfaction how seldom choco-
late failed when discreetly
applied. Each, in the spell of an
absorbing occupation, sat silent
and almost immobile, face to
face, once again oblivious of the
other’s militant personality;
until after a later squinting
glance that seemed to see nothing
he realised that she was looking
not through him as a model
should but at him, and about to
speak.
“Keep still and shut up,” he
said softly, for already he was
fascinated by the face, the pose
and above all the quality of what
he himself was doing.
She moved restlessly. She had
finished the chocolate. He
willed her to be still; but when
she moved again he put down
the pencil, profoundly satisfied—
though not with the unfinished
study—and took out and lighted
a cigarette, not looking at her
any more. Instead, with bent
head and eyes going over and
over the square of cartridge-
paper and what was on it, he
fell into an abstraction of
analysis.
“What have you done?” the
girl’s voice asked. Yes, she had
begun to think, of course, and
was now full of a damnable
womanish curiosity, quivering
with a wish to flatter her own
vanity with his help. Saying
nothing, he flipped the notebook
along the seat to her.
She took it up with clearly-
affected indifference, and he
watched her face, forgetting her
age, her sex, her origins in a
most earnest, unselfconscious
hope that she would see what
he would have her see. Bending
her head, she stared at the study
—there again, he thought: that’s
a pose I could use,'too.
“Gawd,” she said at last. “Is
that supposed to be me?”
Quickly, while he was still
unsure of having heard, she
ripped the sheet from the block
and tore it up, looking him full
in the face with an unsmiling
expression compounded of
triumph and fear, like one dar-
ing to arrest the process of a
magic spell.
WHEN she had thrown the
pieces aside, they both sat
quite still, staring at one another.
The wind was going merrily in
the tops of the trees high above.
A car passed noisily downhill,
straining against the pitch of the
road ; but about the two of them
clung utter and impregnable
silence through which no sound
could break.
At length, after a minute that
might have been eternity, he
heaved himself up and limped
round to her. She watched him
approach, her defiant face paling
and her mouth opening slowly ;
but not until he was quite near,
standing over her, did her gaze
falter. Then, to his horror, she
put her hands over her hidden
ears protectingly, bent her head
and hunched up her shoulders
like one about to be struck ; but
still she made no sound.
He took the sketch-book from
her lap and turned and lurched
away, thinking, “Anyhow, there
are plenty of other subjects,
plenty—now that I know. Now
that I know I can.” But the
thought was not a full thought,
for in fact he was wild with
emotion; excitement at the
excellence of what he had done
(that it was destroyed did not at
the moment matter ; he had done
it!), and horrified disgust and
pity, not so much because that
child had crouched in such
terror away from his approach
as because any sort of society
could permit the genesis of such
unresisting fear. In all the world,
what could have taught her that
dreadful pose?
He forgot his own earlier self-
pity. The whole incident was
over. He wanted to get away
now —down to his home of
passage where he could think,
where he could decide how
to find someone he could
paint to astonish once again
the world which once only,
by its capricious rejection
of him in his hour of vulner-
ability, had ever managed to
astonish him. He knew, from
the way he had used the pencil
just now, that his power had
come back to him. He limped
away.
RUNNING footsteps came
after him, before he had
reached the bend in the road
below.
“Mister,” the girl’s voice said
urgently behind him. “Half a
sec., mister. I’m sorry I done —
did that. I’m sorry. It was a
lovely photograph. I dunno why
I tore it, honestly.”
He looked round, still getting
along with his up-down lurching
gait..
“Go away,” he said, “Go
to school. Go home. Good-
bye.”
But an idea was in his mind.
His backward glance had con-
vinced him that hers was a
fascinating face to paint—and
unknown, unknown to anyone in
his own world! It would con-
found them. She was just what
he wanted, someone who knew
nothing really of him or his
work, very little apparently of
anything except fear and its
armor of defiance. He could
show all that. The last half-hour
had proved, too, that she was
just what his hand wanted. He
self out to obtain her in his own
way.
“You did a terrible thing,” he
said when she continued to walk
along behind him down the hill.
“You tore up something that
was worth a lot of money. I
might have given it to you, even,
and you could have sold it—for
quids,” he added, to improve the
odor of the bait. “Now, of
course, it’s gone. Run along—
stop following me.”
She snuffled with tears, hasten-
ing to keep near him.
“Honest, I didn’t mean to,
mister. I know who you are —
famous and all that. Couldn’t
you do it again? If I stayed
very still? Please?”
“No,” he said, slowing down
a bit. “Not now—not today.”
“When, then?” She was at
once eager and humble.
“Never,” he said, smoothing
his neat beard between the first
and second fingers of his left
hand, and pausing to look up
towards the overtowering trees
where the boisterous wind was
letting in the sun. “I’m too busy
to waste time on little girls—
rotten, malicious, destructive,
ungrateful little girls. I’m a very
busy 4 man. Besides,” he added
with an irrelevance he knew
would seem to her like perfect
logic, “you’re running away.
You won’t be here. Though,
unless you have a lot of money,
I can’t imagine where you’re
going to run to.”
“Mister,” she said, “X won’t
run away. Let me come with
you a while. Let me talk to
you.”
“That,” he said, “would be
worse than running away.
Where do you go to school?”
“Down past your place,” she
said quickly. “You know where
the school is—you know. I walk
past your place every day.”
“Then run along or you’ll be
properly late,” he said, gentle
without meaning to* be. But
this would not do her. She
hurried along beside him, for a
while saying nothing. He
wondered if his trap had failed
after all, and at the thought his
eagerness to paint her became
livelier than ever.
“I hate school,” she said at
las,t, “and I hate it at home. My
dad’s always drunk and hitting
me round the head, and Mum
does, too, when he belts into
her. I get so I can’t do the things
at school, and the teacher tells
Mum and she tells Dad, and it
makes him go for me worse than
ever.”
Shocked, he began to walk on
again faster than before down
the road that would soon emerge
now from the mountain forest
upon the open descent to the
brilliance of the slopes beyond.
When at last he turned to take
a quick look at her, she was not
there.
ROUND the bend behind him
came a bus, growling and
grinding in low gear. As it
passed, he saw and heard quite
a number of children in it, and
recognised the school-bus from
the northern part of the district
among the mountains. It passed
his cottage twice each week-
day. Of course the little idiot
had not had the courage not to
catch it, to run off —scared to
miss it, scared to be late for
school after all. Just a silly,
impudent, cow-faced schoolgirl
—not at all an unusual child,
with her lies , about being beaten
by a drunken father.
“Not for me, dammit,” he said
aloud. “Too risky. I’ll go home
and paint old Jeanie, anyhow,
for the present. In the kitchen.
Darning socks. ‘Mrs. Testament’
caught by our candid canvasser.’
Damn, damn! ” But as he spoke
to himself he heard the footsteps
again at his back, running, and
the girl again caught him up,
breathless, more flushed than
before, and looking (he saw at
once) quite useless to him in her
excited animation.
“The school-bus,” she said,
gasping out the words. “I had to
hide, or the kids would of told
on me.”
Looking at her carefully,
imagining her in repose, he made
up his mind.
“You get on to school as fast
as you can,” he said. “Now
shut up and listen. What’s your
name?”
“Corrie,” she said. “Come
Mclntosh.” And now defiance
was gone.
“Listen, Cora—or Corrie,” he
said. “Get off to school. And
then—will you do what I’m
going to say?”
She nodded, as though she
dared not speak.
While his mind worked fast,
they entered upon a conspiracy,
walking hastily down through
the bright wind and the morning
until the possibility of being seen
together made it imperative that
they should separate.
11
| N and out and in and out,
i quick, flashing minutely,
Jeanie’s needle led the grey wool
through the threads already
warped across a hole in the toe
of a wry brown sock. From time
to time she stopped darning to
raise her head and direct her
dark gaze towards the studio-
shed fifty yards away on the
edge of the old, neglected apple-
orchard.
She sat in a sheltered corner
of the sagging front-veranda of
the cottage, where the wind
could not nag her; and when
she looked up her beautiful face,
drawn fine and hard now from
years of hectic and uncertain
life with Testament, was puzzled
and worried, as though she
feared, yet were defying, some
threatened trouble.
When she should have rejoiced
to find her husband as he used
to be, she was instead alarmed
and filled with miserable fore-
bodings ; for something very
strange was going on in the
isolated studio., and with wifely
instinct she knew that a woman
was concerned. Yet, she would
have intimated to a friend, there
was mixed with her worried fore-
bodings a thread of pleasure. It
was pleasure she could not help:
a sort of wild, half-incredulous
relief to see him as he used to
be; to hear him laugh and
whistle, as he was doing at this
moment oyer in the distant
studio, sometimes even singing a
fragment of one of his silly,
meaningless songs. She knew
what it all meant; she knew, as
well as if she had seen, that he
was at work on something which
was going well.
It was strange, after more than
a year, to hear him. Her fine
face became bright; hot then,
at the memory of what she had
heard two afternoons ago, it fell
into gravity again, the new lines
of unhappiness reappeared, and
she bit through the thread of
grey wool with a sort of
desperate anger.
WHAT she had heard was a
sound of laughter, a girl’s
or a woman’s laugh, sharp and
spontaneous through the wind
that plunged between the cottage
and the shed. This shed, open
fully to the north at that end,
stood on steeply sloping ground
that ran down to the fence and
the road. The open end was
about nine feet above the rough
track up to it from the road-
gate, and from this level the
cases of fruit, packed in the shed,
were lowered on to the trucks in
the days when the apple-orchard
had flourished and prospered.
At the opposite end, south-
wards, was a line of small
window-panes, cobwebbed and
dirty and impossible to see in
through against the strong north
light (she had tried); and in the
side away from the cottage and
towards the orchard a big
sliding-door had a small pilot-
door let into it. The only entry
was on this side, for the unwalled
loading end of the shed was too
high to be looked into from
immediately below, and the slop-
ing ground beyond it assured an
absolute privacy. The wall fac-
ing the house was sealed and
blank.
Thus one could enter or leave
the shed unseen, by cutting
through the overgrown orchard
from higher up the mountain
highway, to the pilot-door in
the far side. Jeanie, who had
examined the whole terrain a
dozen times without realising she
was doing so, wandering about
the place when she had no better
way of filling out the dull idle-
ness of her days, now understood
how convenient this screened
approach must be proving.
She was no fool. She knew
her husband as only a wife can
know the man she was lived with
constantly for twenty years, and
whom she has tested —and been
tested by—to every conceivable
extreme. Had anyone suggested
that the pleasures of a love-affair
were being concealed in the old
shed, she would have laughed,
for two reasons. One was that
Testament all his latter life had
denied his studio absolutely to
women other than models on
duty—denied even herself a
nearer approach than the door-
way, hurrying over defensively
from whatever he was doing the
moment he heard her approach-
ing footsteps.
The second reason, more pro-
found and to her far more
dependable, was that during his
always-brief periods of probable
pr real marital infidelity in the
past he had changed towards
her vividly, becoming considerate
to an extreme, almost over-
courteous, more than ever talka-
tive, friendly —and quite aloof,
as though he had closed between
them an uncurtained window.
These signs she had learned to
recognise with eventual resigna-
tion, though never with indif-
ference, consoling herself with
the pleasant-painful knowledge
that it would not last, he would
fling open that window again,
and once more she would be his
wifely comforter, the only
woman with whom he found it
impossible to dispense.
For a fortnight now he had
been the old Will Testament of
their best days together, cheerful,
passionate and tender. This
could mean only one thing: he
was at work at last, and satisfied
with what he was doing.
THE community, though
spread oyer a wide territory,
was small. Large families of
O’Briens, Mclntoshes and
Greens made up the major part
of the population, owning all
the land —or having owned it,
which seemed worse to later
occupants —the milk-run and the
baker’s trade, the bus-run into
the mountains, and the shop-
post-office business, every local
service and contract, until a
stranger’s' mind became confused
and drew back from the com-
plexities of the family entangle-
ment ; for they had intermarried
freely.
Any misdeeds within this
strong cabala were punished with
malicious fcest and pleasure by
the three clans, but secretly and
j ealously; misdoing by a new-
come stranger, and a city migrant
at that, and above all a godless
and notorious man like Testa-
ment, must have effects which
would not bear contemplation.
Jeanie folded the socks she
had darned, and looked again at
the studio standing stolidly
against the wind and sun. By
now she knew that whoever .was
posing for Will came late in the
afternoons of Monday and Wed-
nesday and Friday, and did not
stay much longer than an hour.
He was keeping the shed strongly
locked whenever he was out of
it, which was seldom: she knew,
for once when he was asleep in
the cottage she had tried an
entry.
It was the only attempt she
had made since the morning two
weeks earlier when, as though
to feed her own hungry despair
and her pity for him, she had
gone during his absence to the
forbidden place and looked at
the chaos of discarded, half-
finished attempts at imaginative
sketches, studies from memory,
drawings of the hand, the ear,
the eye, desperate and hopeless
self-portraits in the big mirror,
in pencil, in crayon, even tried
in oils. v
She looked, and went out at
once, feeling stifled, gnd was


gssss®® 5 ®
The New
SQUARE ENGINES
More power -lefgipetrol - longer life
*:
: ::
IS
63
n.D
4 cyl, 0/, »
, r* o.h ,
«cwr
I^-0*
as
What Is a “SQUARE ENGINE”? “Square” is the
engineer’s term for the new high-efficiency engine with
equal bore and stroke. The new Vauxhall engines (Bore
3\" Stroke 3") are “better than Square”.
What advantages do you get with these new Vauxhall
Square Engines? Because piston speeds are reduced
you get higher cruising speeds, faster acceleration, greater
verve yet fewer stops for petrol. You get longer cylinder
life too, due to the big reduction in piston speed and the
new Vauxhall boring technique. These outstanding
features make this the most advanced engine design ever
to come from the Vauxhall drawing boards . . . the rlimav
of a long history of Vauxhall engineering leadership I
COMFORT, BEAUTY, RELIABILITY!
The new Vauxhall crystallizes everything you’ve ever wanted!
Spreading comfort for five even six. Swift-lined grace
and beauty . . . new Vauxhall suspension to give you relaxed
comfort at even high speeds. Proven roadability and ease
of cornering. Plus .. . the new engines .. . new, effortless
speed... more “go” to the gallon... much, much longer life!
Which of these high-spirited Vauxhall cars is for you ?
The 15.63h.p. 4cyl. WYVERN Cruises between 50-55.
There’s even greater fuel economy than ever plus “rising
in the clouds’’ comfort of the new Vauxhall suspension . ~
new 5-6 seating space . . . proven Vauxhall roadability.
The 23.44 h.p. 6 cyl. VELOX The'famous top-gear
performance of the Velox adds extra liveliness at high
speed with still faster acceleration. It now cruises between
60-65 m.p.h. A new standard of fuel economy, too ! .. .
offering 3 to 4 m.p.g. better than the previous model.
Now in the one car you get thrilling performance ...
big car suspension ... 5-6 passenger comfort... and proven
roadability.
Vauxhall Service & Gen-
uine Spare Parts —Expert
service fby GMH trained
mechanics) and genuine
spare parts availability pro-
vided by a network of
Vauxhall Dealers through-
out Australia.
Ask about the G.M.A.C.
Confidential Hire
Purchase Plan. See how
easily you can become a
proud Vauxhall owner.
Ask, too, about the easily
fitted “built-for-Vauxhall”
GMH “Air Chief” car radio.
4-cylinder Wyvern 6-cylinder Velox. Prices from £920 plus Sales Tax.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL M OTORS - H OLDE N’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold^ndJemcedJb^Vau^
mmtmL
almost back at the cottage when
she felt a compulsion to go again
and look more carefully, with
less emotion; and this time she
learned that her own deliberately
cruel, taunting remarks had been
well enough justified. He could
paint no longer. The craftsman-
ship was there, ingrained now,
unmistakable to any knowing
eye; but that eye would also
have perceived that the art was
gone from the hand’s cunning,
and the mind was looking aside
from the truth of the subject.
She started to her feet, ready
to go over to the studio and to
make one final passionate
attempt to argue him out of his
stubborn self-isolation which
was tangling them both in a net
of despair. But on the edge of
the shaky veranda she stopped.
Testament himself had come
limping round the corner of the
shed, whistling cheerily. He
waved his hand when he saw her,
and shouted “What about some
tea, old dear?” and came on.
Her spirits rose at the sound
of his voice, at the familiar flash
of his teeth in his thin bearded
face. Cheerful devil! She turned
and went before him into the
cottage.
T" HEY sat in the warm kitchen
t away from the wind, and as
he supped his tea he talked, for
once, about the city and their
friends, ending up with a remark
spoken so lightly that for a
moment it did not even startle
her.
“You know, Jeanie, I’ve
feeling we shall be going back
before very long.”
Slowly, to give her mind time
she ran her fingers through her
dark hair.
“I thought you said never,’
she said at last. “Can’t you make
up your mind?”
She spoke with an undertone
df sharpness that had recently
become habitual; but the blood
sang in her ears a little for joy.
“Oh, that,” he said. “I was
upset then. I’ve been thinking it
over. They’ve had their pound
of flesh, all those damn’ ghouls,
and we’re not getting anywhere
here. You say yourself it’s time
I made some money and I’ll
never do that here.”
“I thought,” she said, “you
seemed happier here these last
couple of weeks. I know quite
well you”
“Happier!” he said quickly.
“I’ve not been even happy for
years, Jeanie, and you know it.
It wasn’t the mudslingers and
the general ignorant condemna-
tion I came here to escape. Not
by any means, my girl. It was
part of a series of inevitable
developments in myself I could
foresee. A man can’t go on
doing the same work in the same
way once he’s reached a certain
stage. I had to have a break, and
all the stink over poor Corrie,
or Cora, was a good excuse.”
He looked out of the window,
concealing his face from her. It
had been a near thing! Corrie
—Cora—the two names were
alike, by heaven! What rotten
luck. Superstitiously he crossed
his fingers under the table, and,
for good measure, touched the
wooden seat he sat on. Corrie!
A piece of luck he certainly
hadn’t foreseen.
Beyond the window he looked,
not at the sunny slopes and
hollows restless with wind but at
the canvas on the easel, the
violent lifesize portrait almost
complete, the thick lips, dark
strong hair just visible under the
hat brim, the skin, the nervous
scornful eyes and virginal brow
—God!—he’d got her there like
so much hot flesh ; so completely
Corrie that sometimes he felt he
could turn the canvas over and
smack it for the insolent way it
looked at him all day every day,
and until he slept at night on his’
stretcher ten feet away from it
where it trembled with life under
its cover.
What most stormed him with
secret inward bursts of glee was
the humble, sympathetic, be-
wildered look that lay deepest of
all its expressions. Again and
again he wondered, more than
he had wondered over any
previous work of his, how he
had done it. He was himself
almost humble before his
achievement, almost ready to
admit that there might actually
be some power greater than him-
self operating through him . . .
as though he were a medium.
Poof! Nonsense! He, Will
Testament, had painted this
masterpiece of profound and
subtle characterisation. He had
never done better. It was the
latest step forward in the incom-
parable Testament tradition —a
proof that he was invulnerable:
a proof!
HE hit the kitchen-table a
smart blow with his hand,
making Jeanie, who had been
watching closely his averted face,
start and catch her breath. Turn-
ing his head, he smiled secretly,
then laughed aloud, his eyes
devilish sly.
“Sorry,” he said. “Your
nerves are all to pieces, old girl.
I was just thinking how I’ll out-
face those hounds in town when
the time comes. How many
people do you suppose know
where we’ve been all this time?”
“Hardly anyone,” Jeanie said
cautiously. At least twenty, she
might have told him, to whom
she had written, warning them
not for any reason to approach
him here in any way. “Maxwell,
of course —I had to keep in
touch with him because of sales.
He’s written to say there have
been inquiries and one or two
commissions from what he calls
public corpses.”
Testament suddenly frowned
darkly.
„ “Why didn’t you tell me?”
“What would have been the
use? You’d only have got in a
rage and done something silly.
Maxwell’s been too good an
agent to lose, Will, and a good
friend. Anyhow, you said your-
self you weren’t going to sell
anything.”
“I said —I said! It doesn’t
matter what I said—T didn’t
want to lose touch with Maxie.
I was only waiting for him to
make the first move. I consider
he behaved abominably over the
Cora business.”
“If one of you behaved
abominably, it was you. Will,”
she said gently, “He thinks you
wanted to get away from every-
thing that might remind you of
it all.”
He kept on frowning at the
window; but suddenly, with the
same secret smile as before, got
up at last and went lurching
hastily out of the kitchen,
through the cottage and off the
veranda. Once outside, his steps
were silenced by the uncut grass
as he headed for the studio ; and
then she heard a strange voice
shouting and a girl’s whimpering
scream.
“Look out, mister! Oh —
don’t, Dad! Don’t! Don’t!’’
It was the voice that had
laughed so gaily in the studio
and it was frantic with terror.
11l
NO one, during her fifteen
years of life, had taken
much notice of Corrie in any-
way, other than to check, criticise
and curse her for her countless
shortcomings. She had never
had a new frock stiff from the
shop, nor been to a children’s
party on a Saturday afternoon;
she had never overeaten or over-
slept ; no one had kissed her
since she was a small baby, and
her knowledge of the secrets of
womanhood had come early,
left-handed and meaningless
from savagely-prurient fellow-
schoolgirls.
When Testament met her in
the boisterous spring morning
trying to run away, what she fled
from was not her home-life (she
had long since developed safety-
mechanisms to deal with that),
but the pathetic chaos of not
being loved in any way by any
one, into which she dimly
realised she had now grown.
She wanted to do something that
would make her recognised ; for
her individual personality had
strongly survived the life of
browbeatings and physical
chastisement, and was untouched
beneath its surface distortions.
She longed to love and to be
loved, though without under-
standing this, and in the scan-
dalous figure of the lame artist
she instinctively saw a person
worthy of her devotion, a fellow-
sufferer under the blows of a
hard world, and, above all, a
man—a passionate, dangerous
and mysterious man.
Inherited superstition, the age-
old fear of witchcraft, had
caused her to tear up the first
unlucky pencil skfetch that
desperate morning. Banished by
this act of defiant rejection, the
fear was at once replaced by
love, by violent and passionate
emotions, and it was with a
(Continued on page 25)


FIRE
PROTECTION
ENGINEERED by WORMALD BROTHERS
ii
"GRINNELL" AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
Grinnell Automatic Sprink-
ler Systems protect millions
of pounds worth of the
world’s property. When an
outbreak of fire occurs, heat
causes the sprinkler head
above to open, localising the
outbreak, extinguishing the
fire and, at the same time,
calling the Brigade.
;
M&i
mm
mi.
mm
-
;rf4
RM
HIH
.:■■ mm*
mm
5<S
'■ :
sd
fs
df
’■MULSIFYRE" SYSTEM
The “Mulsifyre” System ex-
tinguishes oil fires. A power-
ful spray of water converts
burning liquid into an emul-
sion incapable of burning.
Widely used to protect oil-
filled transformers, oil cir-
cuit-breakers, turbine lubri-
cating oil feeds, also all
general oil risks s
m
■
H
B
m
m
m
"LUX" INSTALLATIONS
The “Lux” System, using
CO 2 (Carbon Dioxide) Gas,
extinguishes fire instantly.
It can be used on intricate
machinery—electrical wiring
—delicate fabrics—valuable
documents volatile and
highly inflammable liquids
with no harmful effects.
f:V.
m
mm.
'
m.
m
"NATIONAL" AER-O-FOAM SYSTEMS
The National System of fire
protection provides continu-
ous foam production for ex-
tinguishing fires in oil tanks,
buildings where types of in-
flammable liquids are t pro-
cessed, ships’ boiler and
engine rooms, eta.
m ?
*
:
Wormald Brothers 5 long-experienced engineers will make a survey of your premises or building
point out the danger spots give you advice as to the system of fire protection suitable to your
class of risk A complete Fire Protection Service is maintained in all States and New Zealand
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LIMITED Sydney, Newcastle. Wagga, Brisbane, Townsville, Orange
WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LIMITED Melbourne, G4elong, Perth, Ballarat, Hobart
WORMALD BROTHERS (S.A.) LIMITED Adelaide
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LIMITED Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin
STEELBILT LIMITED —■ KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LIMITED


terrible joy that she voluntarily
joined in the machinations of the
devil she had just put down-
machinations innocent enough
and personally purposeful on
Testament’s part, but for her
fraught with exquisite and
trembling wickedness.
When he coldly told her to
come secretly to his studio three
afternoons a week, and to lie to
her parents about why she was
late home, she was shocked and
delighted. He himself gave not
a thought to possible conse-
quences to her of this instructed
duplicity ; and had he thought of
them he would have laughed and
asked “What is it to me?”
though at heart he was not
unkind.
To Corrie, the immeasurable
risk she was running (for she
thought she knew her father’s
violence and her mother’s
cowardice before him) made her
concurrence in the conspiracy
only a greater proof of her love,
and at once more terrifying and
more passionately exciting,
worthy of the self of her
adolescent dreams. By the time
she was to go for her first sitting
in the thrilling loneliness of the
studio, she was pitifully in love
with her victor.
He, for his part, treated her
from the first with the same
delicate politeness he always had
used towards his models, which
made them all too eager to work
for him again; and he handled
her with the same watchful care
a pagan high-priest would devote
to a sacrificial victim on the day
the omens were to be taken. The
work he had begun must not for
a moment be jeopardised.
So that she should not learn
to dislike it all, he made her
hold the pose only for very short
periods at first; and lest she
should start thinking too
consciously he kept her fed with
all the chocolate he could
secretly buy. Nothing, however,
could withhold from her eyes and
mouth the look of love ; and
utter surrender which neither
artist nor model knew was there,
though it worried Testament
after she had gone, even while
it'delighted him, for its evasive-
ness and unfamiliarity did not
accord with what he remembered
of her at the first stormy
encounter.
At the end of a week’s work,
after she had unwillingly
sneaked away through the over-
grown orchard, he stood for a
long time glowering at the
canvas in the diminishing light
of late-afternoon, puzzled but
in some way very deeply pleased.
For all his vanity he did not for
a moment suppose that he had
awakened emotions of love in
Corrie, and would have been
sneeringly angered if he had
been told this was so. She was'
to him just a commonplace
country schoolgirl whose color-
ing and perfect bone-structure
happened to appeal to him
forcibly but impersonally; she
was in fact the chosen victim for
a bloodless sacrifice to his
genius.
In secret, in her absence, he
hugged her to him with delight,
as a solitary child hugs an inert
doll, in imagination making it
alive and perfect; but when she
was with him, quick now to take
the pose, and always in a sort
of dazed state for which he
thanked the chocolate, she was
so remote from all but his sense
of seeing that she might have
been a doll indeed.
Only a complete indifference
to all of her being that was not
physical and immediately
apparent to his obsessed eye
made it possible for him to be so
friendly and genial to her, so
generous with the expensive
chocolate, and so uncaring as
to give her impatiently, like
bones to a dog, two of the
several pencil studies he had
made before letting himself
begin on the canvas.
She took the sketches without
saying anything. It had been
vaguely impressed upon her
awareness that, for some reason
with which she herself had
nothing to do, he was a powerful
and important man, whose
“photographs” (as local dialect
styled all pictorial representa-
tions) were worth money—even
the little ones in pencil that you
could rub out if you liked, or
alter to suit your own ideas.
Folding them up small under
Testament’s disgusted gaze, and
not without some disappoint-
ment that the paper was thick
and rough instead of being softly
glossy, she slid them into her
shoulder-satchel and from there
transferred them later, flattened
out again and now slightly
smudged, to a hiding-place
beneath the yellowed newspaper
on the floor of the packing-case
in which she kept her few clothes
and another pair of shoes.
IT was unfortunate for Corrie,
' who was at the time sucking
a pencil - end and dreaming
beyond the schoolroom hum of
voices to the keen joy of the
afternoon to come, that her
mother should have been moved
that morning to think about her
daughter consecutively enough
to realise of a sudden that the
Child had lately seemed changed.
With surprise that made her put
her .hands to her head, the
spiritless woman sitting by the
untidy kitchen-table recalled
having seen Corrie smiling more
than once when there was less
than usual to smile at; and it
was even a fact, now she thought
of it, that she had been brushing
her hair at night as well as before
going to school in the mornings.
Moved by some obscure
emotjpn cloudily compounded of
pity, memories of her own girl-
hood, and aimless curiosity, she
wandered from her blackened
kitchen along the open veranda
to the farther end which was
boarded up to the unceiled roof
to serve the girl as a sort of
room. It was little more than a
box, and already its atmosphere
smelled loosely feminine, from
the unmade bed and the clothing
not often enough washed and
seldom washed enough.
There was a certain childish
disorder, which she began half-
heartedly to put straight with
unfeeling hands. Starting thus in
an idle way, she became caught
up in the animal activity of tidy-
ing her young, much as a cat
which licks its kitten once as it
were by chance will fall into a
sudden obsession with cleanli-
ness, proceeding more and more
passionately until both are dazed
with the thoroughness of the
job.
After some minutes of moving
things about she went almost
hastily to the kitchen, and came
back with clean newspapers and
a broom. Not for many weeks,
not since Joe’s last dangerous
drunken illness, had she enjoyed
the feeling of being employed in
a good and profitable purpose ;
and this feeling so mastered her
that when she uncovered the two
pencil sketches as she kneeled to
put down fresh paper in the up-
ended packing-case she did not
realise for a moment what she
was holding.
Then, as recognition and
immediate, unreasoned alarm in
turn overcame her, she sank
back on her heels, breathing
hard. The blood seemed to fill
her face as she gazed from one
creased foolscap sheet to the
other, and then to drain from
her whole body to her heart,
which began to thump in her
breast like big guns.
At last she struggled to her
feet, holding the ominous draw-
ings away from her at arm’s-
length, and with uncertain steps
returned to the gloom of the
kitchen, where she let herself fall
into her • usual chair near the
black recessed stove now cold
and fireless. Breathing fast, she
reached out to lay the two sheets
on the littered kitchen-dresser,
and then put her hands one over
the other on her thin bosom,
feeling the perturbed heart beat
gradually less hard.
When a minute had passed and
her breath came easier, she got
up and reached high into the
sooty blackness of the chimney.
bringing down carefully and
without hesitation a bottle con-
taining gin, some of which she
poured into a cup half-filled with
cold sweet tea. This she sipped
several times in haste and with-
out any sign of pleasure beyond
a final deep sigh that brought to
her sick eyes a thin glaze of
tears. Then she hid the bottle
in the woodbox by the stove.
At last she looked again at the
drawings ; she held them up after
wiping her eyes, and stared at
each in turn, nodding her head
in recognition, shaking it in be-
wilderment. Her brain began
to think in its fragmentary way
the dazed but driven thoughts of
the uneducated and illiterate
consciousness A series of
tremendous questions seemed to
be put to her which her con-
fusion could not answer. She
felt at once elation and fear in
very great degree: elation that
someone had done these clever
photographs of Corrie, the
hitherto unloved, irritating
daughter whom her father’s
sullen hatred had made in some
way a perpetual cause of
trouble; fear, which quickly be-
came a dull terror, of what Joe
would do if he knew of them.
Fifteen minutes passed like a
remembered nightmare, as she
sat there holding the drawings on
her knee and sipping at the
refilled cup. By the end of it
she had passed into and beyond
a sort of rigid hysteria, tearless,
as it were anaesthetised to a con-
Nodting worse Than tehad°e°ver
come toTetSfy her The name
-
of Testament, that man whom
Joe, without knowing him at all,
scorned and feared like a lunatic
by hearsay, at last came into her
mind. Thought failed her at
once, completely.
She jumped up from her seat
with the simple intention of
destroying the drawings and all
trace of them, as though she had
committed a crime that must be
hidden immediately. The two
upturned faces coasted gaily to
the floor, and, raising her eyes, as
though at a summons, from
blindly following their flight she
saw her husband standing in the
doorway. He was swaying a
little on his feet, watching her
with his thin neck thrust
forward.
Meeting his bright, angry gaze,
she could not move further, and
between them on the unswept
boards lay the drawings like a
twofold mockery of them both,
the father and the mother of
the absent child.
IV
F OR a moment Testament did
not recognise either of his
visitors. Thought and reason had
not overtaken the vivid visual
impression of two fantastic
strangers, the immediate feeling
that he had stepped out of the
warm kitchen and the cottage
into the cold, windy brightness
of a dr^am.
The south-west wind was up
again in force; it rushed across
the mountain slopes and through
the leafless apple-orchard, and
hammered the southern end of
the studio with drunken, vicious
blows. Against the long blank-
ness of the east wall the two
figures stood in a stiff pose of
temporarily arrested violence.
Everything of the man looked
to be broken, at first sight. The
hat forced hard on his head
against the wind, the rumpled
woollen sweater, the trousers
with one leg deformed and sag-
ging to the weight of a bottle
whose neck stuck out stiffly like
a shiny handle from the pocket;
the savage snouts of the earth-
colored boots, and above all this
collapsed face, bluish-red and
centred round mad eyes and a
dot mouth all seemed to
have been struck down and
smashed by some huge inevitable
wei S ht fr ° m above Only the
wind, you would think, held it
all erect by artifice. Between this
B us t and the next, in the sudden
warm pause, it must crumple
nto a confused heap of clothing,
bat, bottle and boots on the hard
ground, and awkwardly blow
away.
To Testament it was not the
wind but the eyes that supported
it and gave it grotesque life. The
man had the girl’s wrist in one
grasping hand, and in the other
a shotgun, pointing downwards
and with the stock under his
armpit. I
There was now little visibly to
connect Corrie with the girl on
the canvas inside the shed against
which she leaned. Her mouth
was still open to scream her
"S® u ‘|f
bruised and swollen, one eye was
blackened, her rough hair seemed
Jo stand out from her head
loosely in horror, and there were
red marks on her throat.
IT had taken Joe Mclntosh half
* the night to make these broad
changes in the model whom
Testament cherished with a
passion that was not love. Other
marks stamped on her young
body could not be seen by decent
eyes, though Mclntosh had seen
them all, with satisfaction and
tumescent, defeated frenzy.
Through the long hours he sat
sp . ra wled in his wicker basket-
chair across the doorway of the
veranda rnr.m bardlv hearincr nr
veranda-room, Hardly bearing or
hearing only with contempt the
moans and sobs and exhausted
snores of his wife in their bed-
room behind him.
Years of ineffectual, drunken,
boastful frustration culminated
in this night. Now and then he
took an exact, neat swig from
one of the bottles on the floor
at his side which he could reach
by Jetting his hand fall down in
a pleasant relaxed way. It
needed no effort Sometime j he
>ng self-Commfseration; and after
o£ summaries of
Stdman h hf “ t "hTng
f ndswa ; and went into hi!
daughter ’ s room again> either to
t eacb her (as he explained) a
] esson she would not forget, or
to t the truth out of ber & SO me-
boW But, unlike him, she said
not a word ab n j gbt
0n a box b bis cbair la tbe
vbdd studies of her face He
could not see them in the dark
but be remembered every line,
bone with masterly assurance
a nd intolerable familiarity, and
the casual suggestion of bare
shoulders hinting at a terrible
nakedness. So overpowering was
the strength of his frenz that
he could not think with what
rerr , a i ne d of his brain • the
alcohol him a “ sle ; pless
inBupportaWe consciousness ohty
0 f himself as a man betrayed by
his own daughter, who lay half-
clad and shuddering under the
clutched blankets of the bed in
the female-smelling darkness.
At dawn, exhausted by the
effort of prolonged paternal dis-
cipline, stunned with cold and
drink, he fell asleep in the chair
across the doorway. For a few
hours no one moved in that
lonely house. The clock on the
kitchen-dresser had stopped at
some hour of night that surely
never was, and time itself seemed
to have halted there. Dawn came
as a vast surprise. Birds sang
before sunrise in the forest trees
beyond the broken fence and the
grass-grown track ; with full
daylight the singing and whistling
and chirping died away, but
later, when the birds had stopped
their night’s hunger, they began
again, and it was the clear call-
ing of a thrush whose claws
scrabbled on the iron roof that
finally roused Mclntosh to con-
fused semi-consciousness.
Before thought could intrude
on this state of simple, shrinking
awareness of being alive, he
reached down stiffly for a bottle
and emptied the remains of its
contents into his mouth in haste.
While the feeling of the liquor
surged again through his frosty,
sickened body he stared at the
boards under his feet, and slowly
let the rage renew itself in all his
flesh. The angle of the sunlight
told him it was mid-morning.
After draining another bottle, he
shouted suddenly in a hoarse
voice at his wife, and hoisted
himself to his feet to go once
more into Corrie’s room.
As she made her way into the
kitchen, stale with cold wood-
smoke and the smell of uneaten
cooking, the woman heard his
voice rising and subsiding at the
far end of the veranda. He
sounded like a man praying
aloud.
“Why don’t he do her in and
get it over?” she said as she let
herself down into her chair by
the jcy stove. Somehow, after
the orgiastic climax of the night,
something seemed to be missing.
She felt po longer any fear of
him, only a pity in her flesh for
Corrie and a great and weary
longing to drink sweet hot tea
with gin in it.
“I better do something,” she
said. “I better get the police or
something.” But for some
minutes she could not even move
to make a fire in the dead stove.
V
«« I EANIE . . . Jeanie!”
Testament had recog-
nised Corrie in spite of her hurt,
bruised face and the unknown
look of blind madness in her
eyes. In the same moment
instinct suggested to him that
here was murder. He called out
to his wife without realising he
had done it, standing still against
the buffeting wind, his crippled
leg swinging, his eyes watching
the eyes of the man.
He had never been ashamed
to acknowledge himself a
physical coward, though like all
cripples he was capable of
tremendous bodily courage.
Only the mentally inert, the un-
imaginative, the dullard was
made of brave—because ill-
informed—flesh, he maintained ;
and all his life, since the days
of childhood chastisements, he
had fled from pain as men flee
from fire, to turn and face it
later; he had averted his eyes
from suffering, dreaded illness
in himself and scorned it in
others, and always taken shelter
where he could.
He had no time to call again
through the easing wind before
the man started towards him,
dragging with him the child
whose mouth remained open in
a noiseless yell of warning.
Testament lunged down back-
wards on his lame leg and began
to move in the direction of the
studio-door on the far side of
the shed, not daring for sheer
cold fright to look away from
the eyes of the other man, who
was coming after him making
inarticulate noises through the
hole of his mouth, slowly be-
cause of the girl dragging help-
less in his wake. He saw in a
brief flash her stiffened legs and
outthrust buttocks as she
strained against the pull; he saw
that the man was quite drunk
and beyond reasoning, and as he
realised this he realised, too, that
he himself was in mortal danger.
Stepping back with sudden
recklessness, he put his lame
foot into a hollow of the ground,
lost his always precarious
balance, and fell, twisting as he
went down so that his eyes still
looked up at the bright, blind
eyes of the man following him.
The girl’s choking sob of ulti-
mate despair he did not hear, for
with a quick animal movement
he was up again, and turned,
and running as he had run from
his father’s vengeance round the
garden of his boyhood home.
(Continued on page 26)
EAGLE
The eagle is my blood.
He flows in a solitary sky.
Borne by insubject pride,
And throbs to the awful beat
Of the hot red heart of day.
Crimson, I feel him rise
Fierce to the world’s blue
brain.
Flushing the source of power
With life within him grown.
Leaden, I feel him drain
Back to the earth, that pump,
Which renews him and drives
him up
To surge in a vital flood
Sharp and wild like blood.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


The man, too, began to run,
apparently unaware of the
weight of the girl who was now
holding his wrist with her free
hand and being hauled along on
her bare knees with her feet
trailing. During all this concen-
trated activity no one had
spoken.
Testament rap, jerking desper-
ately from side to side, towards
the pilot-door. Half an hour
ago, when he came away, he
had for once left it unlocked.
His mind acknowledged and
thanked the gods for that piece
of confident carelessness as he
flung himself bodily at the door
in’one last plunge on his sound
leg. Mclntosh was almost upon
him; he had released his hold
on the girl and hers on himself,
and with his freed right hand
he brought up the shotgun and
cocked the hammer.
In the abrupt silence, while
the wind stood still, the metal
sound was neat, blunt and cold.
As he lifted the muzzle and
slapped the butt into the hollow
of his shoulder, he was laughing
silently with a shivering excite-
ment which had nothing to do
with his hatred and fear of
Testament. It was the inward
laughter of a hunter over a sure
mark, the laughter of a man
about to kill.
Several things now seemed to
happen in the single moment. As
the girl, having regained her feet,
jumped with hands outstretched
at her father’s hunched
shoulders, Jeanie came hastily
round the comer, Testament
slammed the small door hard on
the sleek gunbarrel, and Mc-
Intosh pulled the trigger, sooner
than he had expected to.
Of them all, his figure alone
remained perfectly still with the
gun at his shoulder and his cheek
rested lovingly against the stock ;
until the girl, whose bodily im-
pact had certainly caused the
explosion, moaned in a dreadful
voice, “Now you killed him!”
and slid to her knees, then on
to her face and over sideways
in a dead fairff.
Jeanie, running, came to an
abrupt stop. In her livid pallor
her eyes looked as black as fresh
tar. The deafening noise of fihe
shot seemed to go qn intermin-
ably, even after Mclntosh had
withdrawn from the now slowly-
opening doorway the gun’s
muzzle out of which a white
smoke dribbled. With eyes no
longer bright he stared at the
smoke as it wavered and
vanished suddenly on the re-
awakened wind, and then at the
body of the girl on the ground
near him, like a man snatched
with violent abruptness out of
a dream.
From staring at the girl he
turned to look again at the
lowered gun-barrel, and his head
began to shake on its thin neck,
first in disbelief and then in a
sort of quickening palsy, - fast
and uncontrollably. His hands,
too, started their trembling, and
from trembling fell to shaking
so violently that he could no
longer hold the gun, which fell
against the door and thudded
inwards on to the floor as the
door swung fully open under its
weight.
Through these dull sounds
there came the rip and yelp of
a car’s brakes jammed hard on
in the road below the shed; a
door slammed with a sharp
thump, and hurried footfalls
could be heard approaching on
the other side of , the building as
Jeanie stepped 1 forward and Mc-
Intosh stood back, shaking all
over now, looking dazedly at his
daughter and muttering in thick
incredulity, “Her. How I got
her? It was him . . . him . . .”
J EANIE pushed past him
savagely as though he were
no more solid than smoke, and
stepped over the gun into the
studio which no woman but the
model on duty was supposed to
enter. She had scarcely passed
out of sight when Mclntosh’s
wife and O’Brien, the district
police constable, came round the
end of the shed together, breath-
less with haste and foreboding.
At sight of the child on the
ground so white and battered and
still, the man leaning his shaking
body against the shed wall, and
the gun across the doorway, Mrs.
Mclntosh started to moan softly
in her throat and to twist her
hands together. Looking at her
husband with a look of horror,
she went down on her knees and
felt blindly for the girl without
averting her head.
Daniel O’Brien walked straight
to the doorway and picked up
the gun, and broke open the
breech. Then, not without em-
barrassment, he turned to his
cousin.
“What’s going on, Xoe?”
Mclntosh was beyond speech.
He looked at his wife, who now
nursed the girl’s tousled head
on her, knees; he opened his
small dry lips, to emit only a
weak blah that became a huge
bubble of saliva which burst at
once and dribbled over his un-
shaven chin on to the front of
the woollen pullover. Tears ran
from under his eyelids down his
thin, dark-red face. He looked
like a man about to succumb to
a stroke.
Constable O’Brien moved
close to him, cautiously, holding
the gun by the barrel in a firm
grip. So far no sound had
come' from the studio since the
gunshot split open the silence of
desperate activities, but none of
those outside realised this;
O’Brien and the woman were
watching the drunken, shudder-
ing man,
“Bit of trouble with the kid,
eh, Joe?” O’Brien said gently.
He did not attempt to touch
Mclntosh, but his left hand
slowly reached for the neck of
the bottle, slowly and with some
difficulty withdrew it, while his
eyes, blue and suspicious and
frowning, stared hard at the
blank eyes of his cousin to
foresee any movement he might
make.
“Bit of shooting, did I hear,
Joe? Accidental?”
He was no fool; he had dealt
with Mclntosh and others like
him before; more than once he
had picked him up and taken
him home in the van, more than
once he had used force, not un-
willingly, in doing his duty with-
out excessive zeal; and he knew
well that while Mclntosh was
frankly dangerous up to a certain
degree of drunkenness, beyond
it he was a sick man, helpless
and a danger only to himself.
He judged that the man before
him, whom he was as yet holding
only with his eyes, had now
reached or even passed beyond
that deciding-point.
Mrs. Mclntosh, fearing re-
prisals, had told him as little
as possible of the night’s doings
—enough only to explain her
alarm, who was by this time
usually alarmed by Joe only in
her own imagination. Of the
real reason for his behavior she
said nothing at all; it would
come out soon enough anyhow,
she knew, and she knew, too,
without caring, that she would
eventually be blamed for it her-
self. No one thought of blaming
Joe, mostly because no one
thought he was worth blaming
or even considering. Even by
the loyal cabala he was known
to be the disgrace of the com-
munity.
“Let’s have a look inside,”
O’Brien said. “You behave
yourself, Joe. I don’t want to
have to put the cuffs on you for
an accident.” As he spoke he
stepped slowly backwards, taking
care not to make an abrupt
movement, until his heel touched
the door-frame. Then, as if it
were casually, he turned his
head and looked inside.
FOR a short time he could
see little against the strong
light from the open north end
of the shed between the window-
less side walls. Then, as his sus-
picious eyes became used to this
strong contrast of light with
darkness, he was aware of
Testament’s figure slumped into
a cane Chair half-way down the
studio, looking very small and
huddled. Jeanie was on her
knees beside him.
O’Brien, who had said no more
than a nodding “ ’Day! ” to
either of these two people, and
who considered strangers merely
as troublemakers in his district,
did not like the probability that
the man was badly hurt or even
dead in that chair.
It was a family affair, this,
after all, an t d it affected him per-
sonally because it could hardly
improve his chances of promo-
tion. In the back of his mind
he was already considering how
much, if not ail, of *it could be
hushed-up if no real damage
had been done ; and at the same
time he vaguely saw it as the
opportunity he and others had
been waiting for to get old Joe
out of the way once and for all.
In a confusion of mind which
he concealed stolidly he stepped
into the doorway and saw that
the man’s eyes were open and
that he and the woman were
staring in a strange, interested
way at something on an easel
which stood with its back to the
door. A glance along the earth
floor showed him no signs of
blood or injury.
“All right in here?” he said
hopefully, putting down the
bottle "within the doorway, but
keeping hold of the gun. When
he straightened up and looked
again he saw that Testament was
laughing and his wife was weep-
ing, though neither made any
sound that could be heard above
the surge and battering of the
wind round the old building.
The laughter and the tears
almost unnerved him. Briefly he
wondered if these two were
right in the head and whether
Joe’s state was due to a beating-
up during which he had fired
in self-defence, or to de-
fend young Corrie. He dared
not show these suspicions, how-
ever.
After a glance outside at
Mclntosh, who had gradually
sagged down the wall to a
hunched sitting position, and at
the woman and the girl, who
was beginning to recover at least
her consciousness, if not her
wits, he walked watchfully down
the studio, his boots making
little noise on the smooth clay
floor, until by turning round he
could see the easel, as well as
the artist and his wife,
Testament stopped his silent
laughing with a great sigh, as
though he were profoundly satis-
fied by what he saw; then, as
his gaze took in the policeman
near him, he scowled with
sudden ferocity. Jeanie sobbed
once, aloud; from relief or
grief there was no saying. He
put his hand on her head, his
dark look softening, and said,
scarcely above a whisper, “Buck
up, old girl. It was either her
or me, and it had to be her.”
t i OT her all right, didn’t
vJ he?” O’Brien said cau-
tiously, staring with frankly sur-
prised eyes at the canvas on the
easel.
A large ragged gap obliterated
most of the lower part of what
had been a half-length portrait,
nearly completed, of Corrie in
her school-dress. O’Brien saw
at once that it was, as such
photographs went, a speaking
likeness —as far as the neck ;
for the whole of the left shoulder
. and breast had been blown
away by the spreading pellets,
and the other half of what was
always the first thing you looked
at on Corrie hung forward and
sideways, leaving only the head
intact.
Forgetting his immediate duty,
which obviously called for the
taking of statements from all
who were fit enough to testify,
he stepped nearer, and to his
disgust Corrie’s face disappeared
in what, when you looked close,
was only a mess of paint, with
scarcely a human color in the
lot.
This so offended his police-
man’s sense of the fitness of all
material things for minute in-
spection that he lost interest at
once in the portrait and turned
to the artist, who was evidently
quite undamaged by gunfire.
“Missed you by a mile,” he
said unemotionally, “You was
behind the door, I should say,
and he let fly through the crack.
Missed by a mile. I better get
your statement.”
Testament suddenly became
very animated. He leapt out of
the cane chair, using his wife’s
shoulder to heave himself up.
Not a gentleijian, O’Brien ob-
served with convinced distaste.
“He was oult for murder,”
Testament shouted, prancing
like a lop-sided puppet in front
of the easel. “Well, he’s done
it. He’s ruined a masterpiece, a
living thing. Bring him in and
let him see. Go on, Sergeant—
bring him in, I tell you, the mur-
dering atavar.”
“He’s not too good,” O’Brien
said. “Now you may have to
prefer a charge”
“Charge nothing,” Testament
said, shaking his fist at the ruined
canvas and shrugging off his
wife’s hand from his shoulder.
“Let go, old girl. Bring that
lunatic in here. What the devil’s
the use of preferring a charge
now?”
He rushed to the doorway and
poked his head out. No one, and
himself least of all, would have
believed that five minutes earlier
he had been firstly paralysed
and then galvanised into terrific
aptivity by sheer freezing fright.
Leaning one hand on the door-
jamb, he* swung his lame leg
with fury, kicking day in the
face, and beckoned and shouted
at the collapsed figure slumped
at the foot of the wall.
O’Brien went past him
anxiously, and lifted Mclntosh
to his feet, already enumerating
in his slow mind all the charges
this city man was going to be
able to bring: enough to keep
old Joe inside for a few years,
with his record.
Shooting with intent was
worse than manslaughter and
next to murder; wilful damage
to property; armed trespass . . .
but then, this chap had been in
the papers about a coroner’s
inquiry last year. He might not
want any more. What would
that leave? Drunk and dis-
orderly, carrying firearms while
under the influence ... it might
work.
“Come and look what you
done, Joe,” he said coaxingly.
“This is going to be pretty
serious for you . . . one thing
and another.”
He urged Mclntosh forward
and into the shed, where Testa-
ment had now hurried to the
far end as though about to
throw himself through the vast
skylike space in fury and
despair; and the two of them,
the constable swaying and
stumbling in sympathy with his
besotted cousin, together passed
the easel and continued on, as
though willing, but not eager, to
witness the artist’s savage self-
destruction. He, however, paused
and turned on the very brink
of the nine-foot drop, holding
on with one hand, twisting up
his beard with the other. Jeanie,
near the easel, could see his eyes
sparkling with temper,
“There now, Joe, look what
you done to this gentleman’s
photograph,” O’Brien said, as it
were placatingly. “You couldn’t
of wished for a nicer photograph
of Corrie,” and with a sudden
strong twist of both hands he
spun the stupefied, shaking figure
round by the shoulders. Mc-
Intosh, at that distance, found
himself looking dead into his
daughter’s eyes.
THE memory of the past night,
with all its shadows of im-
mense lusts for ever frustrated ;
immense and ultimate cowardice
governing his whole life; the
coarse ecstasy of inflicting
fleshly pain on the girl who
never made one effort to defend
herself, scarcely even a sound
louder than a gasp, plan though
he might to wring from her at
least one cry; the false Par-
nassian vigor of the alcohol
flooding his gnawed brain; a
humming thrill of deliberate
and secret self-degradation ; and
somewhere, somewhere, the ob-
scure conviction that he was in
the right as the father, the male,
the governor of all womanly
flesh —this monstrous memory,
hitherto only fragmentary since
his awakening to the pure song
and rattle of the, thrush on the
roof, was consolidated and
touched to overwhelming life by
the curious expression, pitched
between oblivion and scorn, at
once shamefully familiar and
wholly strange, in the painted
eyes under the smooth brow and
the hat-brim turned back as
though brushed upwards by an
impatient wrist . . .
He thought he was screaming,
but the sound coming from his
funnelled lips was only a high
mewing noise simulating a tor-
rent of words that gushed out
of his brain like a released flood.
Testament, said impatiently,
“What’s this, what’s this? What’s
he say?” and Jeanie moved
nearer to look closely at
Mclntosh.
“It’s all right, you know,” she
said rapidly. “It was very good
of you and your wife to let your
daughter sit for her picture. I
was here all the time to keep
her company in case she got
bored. Everything was perfectly
all right.”
But she might have saved her
defensive lying; for Mclntosh,
sagging on the constable’s sup-
porting hands, heard nothing but
his own loud screaming, and
saw nothing but Corrie’s steady
eyes coming closer.
“I think you’d better get him
to hospital,” Jeanie said in a
clear, matter-of-fact voice to
O’Brien, “I am a trained nurse.
He’s dangerously ill, Mr. O’Brien.
I’ve seen delirium tremens
before. Get him away in the
car. No —wait. I’ll take the
others inside the house first.
And take that —that bottle ; you
may need it to keep him quiet
after all this.”
She went hurriedly ahead out
of the studio, and the wind
whipped her thick skirt hard
about her knees as she entered
the brilliance of the sunlight.
Mclntosh spoke at last, in a tiny
crying whine, as though a cat
had spoken with a microscopic
voice.
“Hit me, Danny, like you did
before. Put me out cold, Danny,
for Chrissake, Dan.”
Embarrassed by such a be-
trayal of private concerns,
O’Brien glanced secretly at
Testament as he began, with
soothing sounds, to hustle the
collapsing figure of Mclntosh
towards the door; but the artist
remained leaning in the bright,
wide opening, his gaze fixed on
the shattered canvas, until he
felt himself to be alone. Then
he limped to the easel and stood
before it. Softly, as his eyes
moved with seeming aimlessness
over the intact upper surfaces,
he began to whistle to himself,
stopping once to laugh and
murmur with relish. “Hit me,
Danny, like you did before. Put
me out cold.”
VI
Maxwell, the agent, got
out a glass to look more
deeply into the brushwork on
the canvas whose lower portion
NELL’S SONG
Out in the withered hills
where cousin marries cousin
old Nell potters among her fowls
and shuts the gate against the
wind.
Out in the tree-stump hills
where the bracken grows in miles
old Nell’s lost within her stare,
singing the only song she knows.
Out in the one-creek hills
that the sudden rain nibbles away
old Nell sits in the dusty shade
till the stars show evening in the
hollows.
Out in the nine-shed hills
where cousin marries cousin
Nell is old as a memory’s old
and alive as dust and sun and
wind.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS LILIAN DOUGLASS late
of Earlwood—TAKE NOTICE that
SIDNEY JOSEPH DOUGLASS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1854 of 1952
on the ground of desertion 1 without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you intend to defend this suit
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court House
King Street Sydney by the 28th day of
November 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from G. M. STAF-
FORD, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MADELINE ELIZABETH MIZZI
(formerly MADELINE ELIZABETH
HANSEN) late of 158 Underwood Street
Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
CHARLES EDWARD MIZZI has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 5767 of 1952 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Bth of January 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from H. G. LEVI, SACHS & CO.,
Solicitors, of 148 Phillip Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES EDWARD REEDY formerly of
Lakemba in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE MAY
REEDY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2832 of 1952 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the 25th
November 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
J. C. HARRIS & CO., Solicitors, 89-49
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
special
WILD:
Time for a
CAPSTAN
k.
The dependable
cigarette
CAPSTAN Special Mild
RED PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
PI sin
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
still hung like old rubbish from
the stretcher on the easel. The
paint was dry. With his fleshy
finger-pads, cushions of sensitive-
ness above nervously - bitten
nails, he felt the matt surfaces,
and at the same time licked his
wide, red lips without knowing
it.
Crouched fatly in front of the
work, he had rather, the appear-
ance of a mighty frog, tightly
and unostentatiously encased in
expensive tweed. Testament
called him “the best agent
money can’t buy.” He was very
wealthy, and a tireless hard-
worker, of immense knowledge
laboriously got together.
“Two hundred,” he said, with-
out turning from his scrutiny.
“No, no,” the artist said
rapidly, doing a sort * of
anguished jig behind the plump,
bent back. “You can’t have that.
It’s worthless.”
“It’s worth it to me,” Max-
well said. “I have an idea.”
“You could never show it. No
proportion left. You couldn’t
frame it, for a start.”
“I have an idea,” Maxwell
said, and straightened up with
a slight gasp, “Mount it above
a surface of unpolished wood v lo
complete the dimension. Frame
the lot in darker wood and lift
the tone back into place. It
might work.”
“Good God! Like a cow
looking over a rail,” Testament
said. “No.”
“All right. Two-fifty,” Max-
well said, with no change of
expression. “I want it, Will.
I’d say it’s the best bit of paint
df yours I’ve seen for ten years.
What do you say, Jeanie?”
“It would pay for the move,”
she said with a faint smile.
She had made herself free of
the studio since the previous
week, during the visits of the
police-constable and a sergeant
from the city who had proved
to be agreeable with her about
hushing up the whole matter as
much as possible, partly, no
doubt, because of the relation-
ship between the constable and
Mclntosh.
Testament ignored her. He
looked angry.
“Ten years,” he said. “Then
what lies have you been telling
me and everybody else for nine
of ’em? You’ve been saying I
might paint differently, but
never better. Damn’ cheek, now
I come to think of it.”
“I didn’t see it happening,”
Maxwell saidj almost humbly.
“You’re a genius, as I think
we’ve agreed for some time. You
can’t ever tell about genius. I
thought you’d gone the limit of
originality, but this is something
new again. New modifications
of brushwork. Don’t bother
arguing. I don’t only see them.
I can feel them.” He waved his
plump right hand. The ring on
the little finger left a streak of
gold across the light air of the
studio.
“I cut out the frills,” Testa-
ment said, forgetting at once his
anger. “You ought to be able
to feel that surface. It was done
on purpose. Tactile. I won’t
part with it, Maxie.”
“All right,” Maxwell said. He
turned away from the easel and
the artist to the woman standing
watchful in the background.
“I’ll count on you to see I get
it in the end, Jeanie,” he said
softly.
Testament, who had once
more been studying the portrait
as if 'bblivious of them both,
spun round on one foot like a
dancer. His eyes sparkled, his
moustaches bristled and his
beard was arrogant,
“Over my dead body,” he
said.
“That’s what I meant,” Max-
well said unemotionally. “I
nearly did, anyway, judging by
what went on. It’s a wonder it
hasn’t happened before this. But
for that kid you’d be a dead
duck.”
Testament stopped swing-
ing his lame leg and sucked
in a deep breath. Then he
appeared to realise that Maxwell
was quietly making game of
him, as he always had in the old
days—the good old days. He
laughed, and raised one hand
to smooth his beard; the look
in his eyes softened.
“And now it’s the father who’s
the dead duck,” he said happily.
“And no tears shed there. I’ll
warrant. A good riddance. I
shall never wear a waterproof
coat again without remembering
him.”
Or the girl, too, he thought.
“What exactly happened?”
Maxwell said to Jeanie.
“Afterwards, you mean?” she
said. “They took him to hos-
pital, of course, and two days
later he developed pneumonia
and died quite suddenly. It often
happens with alcoholics in the
state he was in. He’d never
have been quite sane again, I
think, if he ever had been in
the first place. As it happens,
it was lucky for us, because for
a while the police wanted us to
prosecute. The man had been a
nuisance hereabouts for years.”
“Out like a light,” Testament
said with satisfaction.
“The girl flatly refused to go
home,” Jeanie said, “so we kept
her here in bed for two days
while she and Will fell in love
with each other”
“What utter rot,” Testament
said loudly. “I wish you’d stop
saying that, Jeanie. You’ll end
by believing it.”
“She wasn’t paid for this job,
I suppose,” Maxwell said.
“She was paid in full,” Testa-
ment said irritably.
“Yes —but I mean in cash. 1
take it because the whole thing
was so secret”
“Will waited on her hand and
foot—just like a father,” Jeanie
said lightly. “And we gave her
a couple of pounds, with some
difficulty. The mother got back
a job she’d had at one of the
boarding-houses higher up. We
got iii touch with the convent
sisters in the town and they’ve
taken the girl there. It couldn’t
have worked out betters for the
two of them . . . For all of us,
I suppose. Except”
She looked in a curious way
at the murdered canvas.
“Well, the house is opened up
and waiting for you,” Maxwell
said, “Let’s have some lunch.
It’s in the car. Then we can
go.”
JEANIE went out in a hurry
all at once. Maxwell looked
round the old packing-shed that
had, after many empty years,
served a purpose again.' It was
bare and high, and in the middle
of the hard earth floor the easel
held up the tattered canvas to
the windless light of noon that
flooded it strongly from the open
north end. That canvas insisted
on the model’s presence still.
The youthful, ignorant, scorn
in the eyes was very real, seem-
ing to recognise in all men some-
thing of the one man, now dead,
who had twisted her life out of
shape even before it began to
grow ; the precocious ripe cu'rve
of the unsmiling lips revealed the
too-early ripeness of all the
flesh ; and one felt that the years
ahead could hold for this simple
creature nothing that was not
trivial, after all —pathos without
tragedy, laughter without joy,
desire without the profundities
of love and suffering, emotion
never lifted into the realm of
thought. Even the memory of
a high-pitched, unreal happi-
ness here in this makeshift
studio, where, for her, self-
realisation had been as much an
illusion as it was for the artist
a reality, would already be
fading into larger, overblown
shape, cloudier each day, with-
out meaning. Only the painted
face would exist, obscurely
beautiful, as long as the canvas
lasted.
“Poor little trollop,” Maxwell
said to himself.
He followed Jeanie out into
the bright day.
Testament loosened the
thumbscrew in the sliding-block
that gripped the stretcher to the
easel stand. While he prised out
the pins that held the canvas to
the wooden frame he whistled
softly in his beard, very glad to
be going back to real life again.
SERVICE
DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Adventures in the
Coral Sea by J. F. Ellis. —5352.
To buy copy of The Digger’s Hat
by Tip Keleher. —5353_.
Information Sought
Particulars of Tommy Farr’s boxing
career ?
Tommy Farr (born in Wales, 1914)
weighed 13st, 121 b., was 6ft.
tall, and had a reach of 81in. Farr
started boxing in 1933, and won the
British heavyweight championship by
beating Ben Foord in London on
March 15, 1937. Farr also defeated
American Max Baer and German
Walter Neusel in London that year,
but he was beaten on points by Joe
Louis on August 30, 1937, and James
J. Braddock on January 21, 1938.
Both these bouts took place in New
York, and were so close that they
could have been declared draws, at
least. Although 38 years old, well
past a boxer’s prime, Farr was sup-
posed to be making a comeback
about six months ago, but he never
made the attempt. Last heard of
Farr was licensee of a public-house
at Margate (England).
* * * *
Some particulars of the Torrens
system of registration of titles of
land? Advantages over the “old
system”?
Its name derives from Sir Robert
Torrens (1814-84), its originator, and
was designed to facilitate and simplify
land-transfers. Torrens first outlined,
his proposals in 1857, and within a
few years all the Australian States had
adopted them. Most of the British
Commonwealth now uses the Torrens
system, and it has also been adopted
by some States of the U.S.A. and by
other countries. Its advantages are
best shown by comparing it with the
did system. Old-system title depends
on a chain of documents and events
stretching back to a grant from the
Crown. Investigation of the deeds,
which must be repeated every time
the property changes hands, is
laborious and expensive. There is no
end to the process, and, more impor-
tant, often no real certainty that the
title accepted is indefeasible. In the
Torrens system a single sheet of paper
(the certificate of title) takes the place
of the deeds. This certificate is all
that is necessary to establish owner-
ship, and is conclusive evidence; thus
titles afe more secure under Torrens
title.
* * * *
How to caponise cockerels chemi-
cally ?
By injecting pellets of the drug
stilboestrol under the skin of the neck.
This should be done as close to the
head as possible so that any unab-
sorbed drug (which could have adverse
effects on huma'ns) is removed with
the bird’s head at slaughter. First
treatment should be at 8-12 weeks of
age, repeated at 4-5 months. Older
birds may also be treated, preferably
1-2 months before slaughter, but
results with older birds are not always
satisfactory. A special applicator
must be used for the injection of the
pellet. Applicator and pellets are
obtainable from Elliotts and Aus-
tralian Drug Pty., Ltd., 20 O’Connell-
street, Sydney; Burroughs Welcome,
Cres'sy-street, Rosebery; or Biological
Institute of Australasia, 3 Barcom-
avenue, Rushcutter Bay—all N.S.W.
With this method deaths are less fre-
quent than with a surgical operation.
Brief Answers
R.D.; The sole surviving trustee
of the late Dr. C. H. Souter is his
son, Dr. R. J. de N. Souter, Box 30,
Yankalilla (N.5.W.).... W.L.H.: Some
decline is likely, but not a drastic
fall. Costs of some materials are
already down a little, and men are
working better, but wages are stiff
high and rising A.P.M.: See
article “Becke’s Letter to Boldrewood
re A Modern Buccaneer” in “Biblio-
news,” vOl. 5, No. 3, obtainable from
Walter Stone, 64 Young-street, Cre-
morne (N.5.W.).... D.E.McE.: (1)
Notice inserted. (2) We would prefer
to see the whole text before ventur-
ing an opinion W.H.A.: Write
“Cairns Post,” P.O. Box 126, Cairns
(Q.) W.E.K.: The House of
Commons was heavily damaged
by German bombers on May 10, 1941.
P.G.: Write Mr. J. K. Moir,
Box 1663, G.P.0., Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne... .W.J.8.: Get in touch
with Mr. E. H s Penrose, Museum of
Applied. Science of Victoria, Mel-
bourne F.M .M.: Write Georgian
House, 431 Bourke-street, Melbourne
(Vic.)... .L.G.: No provision made.
Special clinic (no monetary reward)
is established at Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital S.S.: Kernigfs sign re
one of the diagnostic features of
meningitis. It is also present in all
cases of* sciatica, the sciatic nerve
being involved when the knee is bent.
In meningitis pain is caused by
inflammation of the nerve-roots
8.H., K. 8.: Write N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture J.H.M.:
Write Forestry Commission of
N.S.W., 44 Margaret-street, Sydney.
D.W.H.: J, M. Synge’s play
“Playboy of the Western World” was
performed by Sydney’s Independent
Theatre, September-October, 1938....
J. 8.: The Cautious Revolution by
Ernest Watkins (Seeker and Warburg,
1951)..• .G.M.S.It would not be
taxable unless the selling of timber
is part of a regular business
A.A.F.: Try the Grosvenor Galleries,
219 George-street, Sydney... .D.H.A.:
Average number of passengers on the
Brisbane Limited Express in the down
direction (Sydney-Brisbane) is 140....
J.P.D.: No suitable oil for the pur-
pose available. Suggest a smear of
vaseline or petroleum jelly K.C.:
Can find no trace of the two names.
I.S.: Department of Civil Avia-
tion has no record of such a flight by
Air-Vice-Marshal Scherger J.F.:
A “troika” is a Russian vehicle
drawn by three horses abreast; also,
it can refer to a team of three horses
abreast.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be Shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.R.: Not bad, but not quite....
M.L.: With confectionery you need
the light hand H.W.: The first
was not bad, and the second was not
good A.V.H.: It might be no
trouble to send us anything so bad
from Sydney; but from Denmark!
.... J.E.8.: Try not to write brilliant
stories about writers C.L.0.:
Afraid your mystery was too puzzling
for us J.McS.: Too heavily
literary; e.g., “the manifest marvel
of all life’s rebirth”... .J.J.O’N.:
“The Drunkard’s Dream” barred by
the Religious Editor T.McC.:
And “Paddy’s Love of the Bottle”
should be left to mature for 20 years.
....E.C.: Four lines, then, as a
sample of your “Australian National
Anthem” to the tune of “Onward
Christian Soldiers”:—
Swans upon the water,
Lovely flannel-flower.
Yellow balls of wattle, '
Australia’s golden bower.
.... A.W. (Q.): “The Old Gum-tree”
and “Spring’s Bridal Veil” are not
for us R.J.S.: Motorbike ballad
bright for your age Egmart:
Mildly amusing. The “View Mat.”
ads. have been dredged too often.
J.A.S.: “Proposal” rejected
C.M.: Promising if you’re young;
not if not. Read some of this cen-
tury’s Australian poetry H.P.C.:
We do not charge a fee for criticism.
Any verse submitted will be scrutinised
and, with our customary gentleness,
dealt with in this column M.S.:
An idea in the last line of “Moon
Madness”; the rest rather woolly.
... .L.8.C.: “In some English
periodicals a verse-writer has a little
corner. Can I secure such from you?”
Well, little Jack Horner’s in the
corner just now, but you can always
drop in and try your luck... .L.M.C.:
The jacaranda blooms once more.
And from Dame Nature’s store —
Spare us R.M.:
Have i not languished in a leaver os mind
Hearinf the mad rythmatic scream of
cicardas ?
Judging by the spelling you do seem
a little feverish D.J.C.: A glimmer
of something in “Ascent”....L.K.:
Both lightweights Proteus: Not
quite. Style too antiquated.


SEE MORE CLEARLY WITH
“SIRIUS”
“SIRIUS” Binoculars are
made especially for E.
ESDAILE & SONS by a lead-
ing continental maker, em-
bodying optical, scientific and
technical data arrived at after
65 years of experience. De-
sign and finish of “SIRIUS”
is faultless . . . light in
weight, centre screw focussing,
plus a strong, sturdy leather
case.
sdf
Other makes:
Zeiss, Ross, Beck
Kassell, Lemaire
Roussell.
1 MODEL AVAILABLE
8 x 30 COATED £26/8/9
sd
fsd
on Aid
SNOS OHV
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY-
43 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. BW 9449, 8631.
Mail
°^ep
Ac cep
ted
Pi
'(is
*oi»
7/6
ills
Uf an
ana
Post
a Se.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Victoria Racing Club has
everything ready for a successful
Melbourne Cup meeting at
Flemington. The four days’
spring carnival will open this
Saturday, when main events will
be the Derby, Cantala Stakes,
Hotham Handicap and
Maribyrnong Plate.
Cup horses will, contest the
Hotham and the Mackinnon
Stakes, while the Derby is
expected to throw light on
prospects of the three-year-olds
in the classic, but indications do
not point to one of this age-
group downing the older and
stronger opposition. This year
it’s a £14,000 cup with a £550
trophy.
Deep River is selected to win
the Derby from Gallant Archer
and Advocate, while Hydrogen is
chosen for the Cup, with Morse
Code and Peshawar dangers.
The Victoria Derby winner
has been easy to pick in the past
three years, the favorite winning
on each occasion. Hoping for
that lucky run to continue, con-
nections of Deep River, elect for
this Saturday’s classic, are look-
ing forward to the mile-and-a-
half with confidence. Delta,
6 to 4, won in 1949; Alister,
7 to 4 on, in 1950, and Hydrogen,
9 to 4, last year.
Comic Court, which finally ran
stake-earnings to £48,579 from
28 first and 15 minor placings
from 53 starts, was a surprise
Derby winner (25’s) in 1948. He
beat Foxzami and favorite
Carbon Copy. Prince Standard,
Magnificent and San Martin
were other outsiders to land the
Blue Riband within the past 10
years. There were eight winners
at odds-on between 1924 and
1950. They included, in addition
to Alister, Phar Lap (9 to 2 on),
Nuffield, R a m p i o n and
Manfred.
Not generally known that the
Melbourne Cup once was run
on the first day of the carnival.
In 1867 (seventh Cup year) Tim
Whilfler won the big race on the
opening day, and Fireworks was
the Derby winner on the second
day. And here’s another interest-
ing fact from that meeting of the
’sixties. On the final day the
Derby winner was beaten in the
All-Aged Stakes by two-year-old
Fenella, carrying sst. Fenella
originally had 4.4, but she
carried 101 b. extra. Whether that
was overweight or a penalty for
winning the Ascot Vale Stakes
is not stated in the' records.
Present-day w.-f.-a. for a two-
year-old at one mile in
November is 5.12, but two-year-
olds are not set against older
horses under the scale. It simply
isn’t done!
Dual Derby winners in recent
years include Alister, Magni-
ficent, Reading, Nuffield, Talk-
ing, Theo, Hall Mark and Phar
Lap, so there is full reason for
the American owners of the
A.J.C. Derby winner, Deep River
(Mr. and Mrs. John De Blois
Wack), having good hope their
colt will add this Saturday’s
Flemington classic to his Rand-
wick win. Should he do so he
won’t be in a position to con-
tinue the good work in the Mel-
bourne Cup, as he was with-
drawn from that race soon after
his A.J.C. Derby success.
Skip-ton in 1941 was the last
Victoria Derby winner to com-
plete the classic and Melbourne
Cup double. In late years others
to complete the elusive double
have been Hall Murk and Tri-
valve, so the law of averages is
against the V.R.C.,Derfiy winner
landing the Cup in the same year.
Of course, quite a number of
winners of the Blue Riband
didn’t face the starter in the two-
miler.
Backers who fancy the
younger horses for the Mel-
bourne Cup have a lot in their
favor. The Cup table shows that
four-year-olds, with 24 wins,
head the age winning group.
Three-year-olds and five-year-
olds have each won 23 Cups.
The six-year-olds have 14 on
their list, while the aged brigade
have landed seven Cups only, so
figures are right against the
veterans. Prominent four-year-
olds engaged next Tuesday are
Hydrogen, Peshawar, Dalray
and Friendly Feeling. Five-
year-olds in the spotlight include
Aldershot, Unfaan, Midway
and Jan, while the six-year-olds
have strong candidates in Morse
Code and Reformed.
Racing at Moonee Valley
brought about little alteration in
the betting order on the Mel-
bourne Cup, though Hydrogen,
because of his brilliant victory
in the Cox Plate, firmed for the
two-miler. Jan’s fourth in the
Valley Cup has inspired con-
fidence in her, so far as
immediate stable followers are
concerned. She should do better
over the longer stretches at
Flemington, which, of course,
also will apply to any Cup horse
that raced last Saturday at the
tricky Valley track.
Mares have a poor per-
formance record in the Mel-
bourne Cup, and they may
again find the opposition
too tough. Jan’s chief rival
from her own sex should
be Sydney stayer Friendly Feel-
ing, whose Cup prospects will
best be gauged from her per-
formance in this Saturday’s
Hotham Handicap at Flem-
ington. That race has often Ween
a guide to the Cup, and it may
again prove of value to punters
looking for the ever elusive Cup
winner.
Trueness, a smart filly of the
1940 racing, running third in the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes to
Lucrative and then beating the
Victorian in the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce, is granddam of Bird-
wood, winner of last Saturday’s
Canterbury Second Graduation
Stakes. Birdwood has started
twice only, and the fact that he
did no racing last season might
assist in his development as a
more than useful sprinter.
An attractive three-year-old
Delville Wood (imp.) colt, Bird-
wood towered above opponents
on looks, and connections
believe he will not long remain
in restricted company. His dam,
Fairness, was bred by Mrs.
M. J. Mackay 10 years ago, and
is by Le Grand Due (imp.) from
Trueness by Harinero (imp.)
from Truest by Treclare (imp.)
from Guest by Woorak from
Recaimer by Poseidon —a strong
blending of both staying and
sprinting ability so far as blood-
lines are concerned. Birdwood
was bred by Mrs. M. J. Lash-
wood, and is raced on lease until
November, 1954, by S. V.
Crealy.
Imported sires Nilo and
Stockade in their first stud season
have some promising gallopers
in training, and each should
make a name for himself before
the two-year-old season is far
advanced. Nilo is a son of a
famous sire, Nearco, an unbeaten
racehorse and leading sire in
Great Britain for three successive
seasons. He is located at Lionel
Israel’s Segenhoe Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), while Stockade, a son
“ Here's luck! And may the best man win!”
of Big Game and Brulette by
Bruleur, is at S. G. White’s
Carrington Stud, Jerry’s Plains
(N.S.W.). Nilo is sire of Even-
ing Bell and Stockade of Moat,
respective winners of the Maiden
Nursery Handicaps at Canter-
bury.
Evening Bell, stylish winner of
Canterbury’s opening event, is
closely related to The Trump,
Victory Lad and Mighty Song, so
she has something to live up to.
Her dam. May Buzz, is by The
Buzzard (imp.) from May Morn
by Manfred. She cost 650gns.
as a yearling and earned £619
from her first success. Moat, a
smart colt, who had an easy task
in the Second Nursery, cost
lOOOgns. as a yearling last April.
His dam, Tidal, won races at
Canterbury and Randwick and
is a daughter of Midstream
(imp.) and Prudence by Constant
Son (imp.), and traces back to
Maltster, a brilliant galloper of
the early years. The colt’s family
lines include Regal Son (A.J.C.
Metrop.), Eusebius (V.R.C.
Derby and St. Leger) and All
Veil (V.R.C. Newmarket).
Iroquois and Caphua, already
on the spot, and English
Standard could make the
Doomben Stakes (seven furlongs
less 98yds.), run this coming
Saturday at the B.A.T.C.’s
course, an almost Sydney affair,
but the Northerners generally
have something “bottled-up” for
the big occasion. Iroquois
is in the best form of
his sprinting career, with three
successive wins to his credit
(including a dead-heat), while
English Standard, Canterbury
winner last Saturday with 7.9,
appears to be well in at 7.5, or
51b. above the limit. Caphua
seems to be shaded by Iroquois.
Of the Brisbane horses those
with good prospects include Free
Rule, Stamp, Highlea and Mr.
Standby.
So far there are two candidates
for election to fill the vacancy on
the Sydney Turf Club committee
caused by Stan Crick’s resigna-
tion. They are Bill Dunlop,
president of the N.S.W. Trotting
Club, and Albert Jones, a keen
follower of racing for the past
30 years and a member of
various clubs, including the
A.J.C. There may be others in
the field before nominations
close. Dunlop, a director of
Ampol, also is a director of
various other business concerns
and an A.J.C. member ; Jones’s
main off-the-course line is build-
ing construction.
Imported Dhoti has sired
many sprinters, and two of his
progeny, Conbrio and Surang,
won respective divisions of the
St. Albans Stakes at Moonee
Valley. Both started favorite.
Conbrio, a colt from Helianthe,
is raced by his breeder, R. G.
Fry, and Mrs. Fry. Helianthe,
daughter of Hellespont (Fr.)
from Flower of Egypt, goes back
to a noted stayer of the past,
Trenton, Breeder-owner E, A.
Underwood races Surang, whose
dam, Ronolive, is a Ronsard
(imp.) mare from Mount of
Olives by Lucknow (imp.).
Neither the Cox Plate nor the
Valley Cup has had much bear-
ing on the Melbourne Cup. It
would seem there’s a hoodoo on
M.V. Cup winners and place-
getters so far as the two-miler
is concerned; Back in the dis-
tant past —1905 to be exact —
Blue Spec won both the Valley
and Melbourne Cups, as did
Clean Sweep in 1900. King
Amana, latest winner of the
Valley Cup, is not engaged in the
Melbourne Cup, but Cox Plate
winner Hydrogen has an excel-
lent chance in the two-miler.
Morse Code, favorite in the
Melbourne Cup last spring, was
going well about three furlongs
from home when he came a
cropper. The two-miler has
proved elusive to favorites.
Latest winning favorite was in
1944, when Sirius (3 to 1) beat
Peter and Cellini. Since then
the only favorite to gain a place
was Fresh Boy (second to
Hiraji, with Red Fury third) in
1947. Indeed, since Trafalgar’s
year (1909) only seven favorites
and one equal-favorite have won
the two-miler, so it’s little
wonder bookmakers are pre-
pared to lay the Cup-elect
almost till the cows come home.
Phar Lap (11 to 8 on) remains
the shortest - priced winning
favorite of the Melbourne Cup
(1930). Phar Lap was then a
four-year-old, and had the
welter-weight of 9.12 (121 b. over
w.-f.-a.), or 41b. more than New
Zealander Dalray (also a four-
year-old) has in this year’s Cup.
Dalray’s 9.8 includes a 21b.
penalty for his AJ.C. Metro-
politan success. Other four-year-
old Cup winners with 9st. or
more have been: Nightmarch,
9.2 ; Windbag, 9.2 ; Patron, 9.3 ;
Glencoe, 9.1. It indicates the
formidable task ahead of Dalray.
* * * *
Big cricket got going last
Friday at opposite ends of the
land. In Perth, South Africa
met W.A., and in Brisbane
N.S.W. smashed into Queens-
land. At both addresses it
started on the slow side.
S’African vice-captain McGlew
was there just on eight hours for
182, while Keith Miller (108), less
aggressive than usual, batted
hours before hitting a boundary.
As brighter cricket, Richie
Benaud’s knock of 63 (for
N.S.W.) is worth mention.
Victoria very properly turned
down flat the N.S.W. proposal
that these two States should
confer on ways and means of
“refurming” the Board of
Control —to give themselves all
the “control”! N.S.W. is talk-
ing of doing one thing and
another “to preserve prestige”—
Chinese for save face.
“K.R.”: I had to go to an
English magazine to discover that
night-cricket is played regularly
in Australia. According to the
September issue of the
“Cricketers’ Magazine,” there
are in South Australia a Returned
Servicemen’s League with 32
teams and an Electric Light
Association with 28. All told, it
is recorded, 7000 players turn
out regularly.
Reported that five English
Test cricketers, including Hutton,
are to appear in a Terence Rat-
tigan film, “The Final Test.”
Apropos, cricket is now regularly
televised in England ; Bill Bowes
says there’s a genuine demand
for it because of its entertain-
ment-value. Bowes tips, too, that
television, besides reviving public
interest, will be valuable in the
coaching of young players.
* * * *
The four-day Ampol golf
tournament at The Lakes
(Sydney) became a five-day affair
when Australian Von Nida and
American Ed Oliver tied with
288 each (72, 71, 71, 74 and 67,
79, 71, 71). The pair divided
first and second money and
played off on Sunday for the
Ampol trophy. Von Nida won
easily with a 72 to Oliver’s 77.
The Ampol was played in
heavy rain and wind most of the
time, and, of the four American
champions, Oliver, Demaret and
Mangrum filled the top
places with Von Nida and Vic-
torian Peter Thomson. Von
Nida demonstrated that he is one
of the world’s best, and
Thomson isn’t far behind.
Von Nida began the final 18
in the.Ampol three strokes ahead
of the field. That’s as good as a
10-length lead entering the
straight in a- horse-race. The
portly American, “Porky” Oliver,
almost headed him, a cut iron
on the last hole costing him a
stroke to make it a dead-heat.
Oliver had some breaks, his ball
hitting spectators and bouncing
on to the fairway.
“Ex - stymie”: Under the
change from par to standard
scratch the fourth hole (306yds.)
on our N.S.W. course became a
par 3 and was promoted from
No. 15 on the card to No. 2. It
was being discussed in the club-
house the other day as an
example of how standard scratch
rating has toughened things up.
“You take the fourth,” declared
the oracle, himself a long-
marker. “When it was a four
and you had a stroke you could
always plus it from a good tee-
shot. Now, you do mighty well
to get a half.” “A half!”
exploded somebody. “I reckon
you do pretty well to get a
minus.”


m
MM
With the electric welding kit with a thousand uses. Welds cracks and
holes in car bodies, mudguards, radiators, etc. Repairs motorcycles,
domestic appliances, sheet metal work, etc. It solders and brazes, too.
Many useful articles can be made such as Station Wagon Bodies, Radio
Chassis, Caravan Bodies, etc.
The kit is easy to operate and it quickly pays for itself in time and money
saved. Works from 6-volt or 12-volt battery. Call in for free demonstra-
tion of welding or send now for this complete welding kit; comprising
a high-grade weldjng tool, 10 feet of welding cable and 3 battery clips,
assortment of welding rods, flux, electrodes, and complete working instruc-
tions.
This welding kit is the only one sold in Australia with a 6-point guarantee;
IMOd
• Fully guaranteed for two years.
• The only kit sold fully complete.
• After sales service. Renewals of welding
rods, electrodes, etc., can toe supplied at small
cost.
• Free technical service. After purchase you
may at any time write to us for further
instructions free.
• We guarantee you will become proficient at
welding. The quality of the welding kit, plus
the complete instructions and free technical
service gives you every aid to weld skilfully.
• Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded
in full.
This complete welding kit. Instructions, and 6 point guarantee
will be mailed to you for £4/15/6. Write NOW. You risk
nothing. Send for your kit TODAY. POST COUPON NOW.
I PACIFIC HOME SUPPLIES, „ ~
378 Burnley Street, Burnley, Victoria. ivM,
1 Enclosed is £4/15/6. Please send me complete Welding Kit
. and six point guarantee. If at the end of 14 days I do not wish
. to keep it. I will return it in good order, and you will refund
|my £4/15/6 in full. Please write in BLOCK CAPITALS'.
I NAME '
I ADDRESS'iaBBaBBHBBaaaHHBBBBBaBaaBBaBiapaBBa
AUSTRALIAN HISTORICAL SKETCHES
The Strange Mutiny
of Lieutenant Dawes
By M. H. ELLIS
ONE day in December,
1790, four men from
Sydney Cove went to
Botany Bay to hunt —a
sergeant of Marines and the
Governor’s huntsman, Mr.
M’Entire, and two other
convicts. In the afternoon they
lay down to sleep in the bough
hut which had been built near
Lady Robinson’s Beach for the
convenience of people engaged
like themselves.
The custom was for men in
pursuit of kangaroos to rest
through the day. Then, at night,
when the gentle creatures came
out from the bush to crop grass
in the open or to drink at some
stream or billabong, they would
stalk and shoot them.
At this time of year the grey,
slow-lightening hours before
dawn were adjudged best for the
hunt, so the men were slow to
awaken. It was not till some
time after piccaninny-daylight,
when all nature turns over in its
sleep, that they were roused by
rustling and thumping near the
camp which they took to be
caused by the approach of
marsupials. But, looking out,
they beheld a brace of black-
fellows advancing with long,
heavily-barbed spears.
M’Entire, when he had looked
the visitors over, said “Don’t be
afraid. I know them well.” He
went to meet them.
One, whose name was Pemul-
way, was not very attractive.
He was a young man with an
injured left eye which gave him
a sinister look. So soon as
M’Entire came out he and his
companion began to retreat.
But the convict huntsman fol-
lowed them, carrying on a
friendly conversation until they
had gone about a hundred
yards.
At that point, more quickly
than the eye could follow,
Pemulway leapt upon a fallen
log and launched his ten-foot
spear like a flash of lightning.
It caught M’Entire on the left
side, passed between two ribs
and embedded itself seven or
eight inches deep through his
lung. The two blacks were off
into the shadows like ghosts.
“I am a dead man,” gasped
M’Entire as, with blood pour-
ing from his side,, he staggered
back to his companions. Slowly
throughout that day they helped
him through creek and swamp
until, at 2 a.m. next morning,
they reached the settlement. A
month later he died a painful
and lingering death, fighting
every inch of the way and utter-
ing blood-chilling repinings for
the wickedness of his past life.
' + +
Governor Phillip was at Rose
Hill when the news of the attack
reached him. He was a patient
and forbearing man, normally
averse to reprisals. Three months
before, nearly to the day, he
himself had been speared, almost
mortally, on Manly Beach, by a
native to whom he had held out
both hands in a gesture of amity
and invitation. He had borne no
grudge and taken no revenge
because he felt that the poor
aborigine had struck at him
under the influence of unreason-
ing panic.
This new outrage, however,
was too much. Several tribes
around Port Jackson were show-
ing themselves all too ready to
spear settlers whom they caught
unarmed and alone, and this was
& case in which the spearman
had acted neither in fear nor in
retaliation.
“I am fully persuaded,” the
Governor told Captain Tench,
whom he called in to consult,
“that in this business they were
unprovoked, and the barbarity
of their conduct admits ot no
extenuation. I propose to con-
vince them of our superiority
and infuse a universal terror,
which may operate to prevent
further mischief.”
He ordered Captain Tench to
take a company of men, repair
to the country of the Bideegal
round Botany Bay and there to
kill ten savages, cut off their
heads and bring them to Sydney
to be exhibited as a warning
to future would-be murderers.
Two natives were to be captured
and brought home to be
admonished; weapons, but.
nothing else, Were to be de-
stroyed, and women and children
were to be unmolested and no
villages burned.
To even so matured a Marine
as Captain Tench this seemed an
unattractive programme, and
the Governor, as ever reasonable,
presently agreed that it would
be enough to kill those who
resisted, that only six prisoners
should be brought in, two to be
hanged as an example, two to
bear witness for their fellows,
and two to be retained for a
time as hostages at Norfolk
Island for a little conditioning
under civilisation.
This being settled, the plans
for the expedition went ahead
under the control of Captain
Campbell of the Marines.
Captain Tench was to command,
Captain Hill of the N. S, Wales
Corps to be his 2 i/c, two
surgeons, Mr. Worgan, the settle-
ment’s Paderewski (who was
teaching the 22-year-old Mrs.
John Macarthur the pianoforte),
and Mr. Lowes, were to go
along, and so were two subal-
terns, including Mr. William
Dawes (who was teaching young
Mrs. Macarthur astronomy).
Mr. Dawes was a solemn
fellow. He was in the Marines
but not of them, and had been
sent to the colony not to help
guard it but, at the instance of
Dr. Maskelyne, the Astronomer
Royal, to track down a comet
which Was supposed to be flashing
along somewhere over the Anti-
podes. And on this phenomenon
he had concentrated his main
attention, apart from being
engineer and fortification expert,
the local Vauban and Galileo
combined.
He was so much engaged with
stars ordinarily that “to mortal
eyes he was not always visible,”
though the advent of Mrs. Mac-
arthur, the first and only real
young lady in Australia at that
time, had drawn him from his
astral lair to make orreries
for her and “to explain to her
the general principles of the
heavenly bodies,” whenever she
cared to take the pleasant half-
mile walk from the town to his
eyrie on the point over which
the Harbor Bridge approaches
now run.
He was a friend of the
aborigines, much given to investi-
gating the religious beliefs of
their maidens, curious as to
whether they had a legend of the
Flood and delighted when he
discovered their conviction “that
all who die go up to the clouds.”
And when he was told the pur-
pose for which he was to go
upon a tour of duty with
Captain Tench he in effect
exclaimed loudly, and perhaps
even rudely;
“I will not cut off anyone’s
head and bring it home in a
bag.”
Nay, more, he put it in writing.
There was naturally great con-
sternation in the mess at this
sally. What were Marines for if
not to perform such routine
duties as this? The fellow must
be mad.
Captain Campbell argued with
him ; Captain Tench, his friend,
reasoned with him. The
Governor quoted the penalties
attaching to the crime of mutiny.
The afternoon shadows leng-
thened without his being per-
suaded, and it was only late at
night that, having consulted his
spiritual adviser, the chaplain,
Mr. Johnson, the obdurate fellow
felt at last that he might square
his duty with his conscience,
though he afterwards regretted
that he had given way.
At 4 a.m. next day, December
14, 1790, the expeditionaries set
out —“a terrific procession,” their
leader said. Captain Tench, in
the lead, had Captain Hill to
bear him company. Next came
Lieutenant Poulden, attending
on his commander and the two
surgeons with their instruments
for dividing vertebras, and then,
each in his proper place, three
sergeants, three corporals and
40 rank-and-file.
+ +
The men were, of course,
garbed for war, in glazed hats,
scarlet swallow-tailed coats with
bulging pockets, knapsack and
roll, ammunition carton with 30
rounds, crossbelt, bayonet, not
to mention 111 b. 4oz. of faithful
old Brown Bess. Their legs were
tightly done up in 12-button
gaiters; their greased pigtails
stuck out belligerently behind.
They could have been seen from
miles away, and in a race with
benighted and naked “Indians”
(as they insisted still on calling
their brown brethren) they were
carrying a handicap of about
601 b. weight each, and had as
much reason to hope as a scarlet
hippopotamus chasing a gadfly.
In the stern-end of the column,
taking everybody’s dust, was
placed the contemporary equiva-
lent of the A.S.C., bearing pro-
visions, as well as “ropes and
hatchets and bags to cut off and
contain the heads of the slain.”
And finally, bringing up the rear,
shepherding the stragglers,
marched the dejected form of
Lieutenant Dawes, pushing aside
the erica and bottlebrush and
shivering every now and then as
he muttered:
“No, no! I will not cut off
anyone’s head and bring it home
in a bag.”
They made good time. By
9 a.m. they had weaved through
the underbush of the Lakes
(where the golf-course now lies),
had crossed the northern arm of
Botany Bay (now nearly all filled
in near Mascot aerodrome) and
had reached the peninsula at the
head of the bay. No savages did
they see that day, though they
marched on till four o’clock.
They spent an uneasy night
and went on to the south-western
arm of the bay, reaching it about
three miles from the mouth.
They had glimpses of quarry
escaping by canoe or otherwise,
but the ground was stripped of
native population. It was rather
lonely and most exasperating.
Then, as they retraced their
steps, they came upon a naked
savage fishing in the shallows of
the bay. He was up to his middle
in the sea, 300 yards from shore,
and when he saw them he waved
cheerily. He started to come
towards them.
Mr. Dawes’s blood began to
chill. But he need not have
worried, for the visitor turned
out to be none other than their
old friend Coleby, the companion
of Bennelong, whom they had
left behind at Sydney Cove —
they hoped oblivious alike of
their departure and their missioh.
Neither he nor Bennelong had
shown much sorrow for Mr.
M’Entire’s mishap or eagerness
to bring his murderer to justice,
and the expeditionaries knew
that once their intent was
manifest to Coleby it would be
the whole world’s secret. It
needed only the lighting of a
smoke and the countryside would
be made aware what was afoot
and act accordingly.
Coleby, however, had soon
found out after they had gone
and had instantly announced
that he would follow them to
the seat of war. No blandish-
ments or bribes would deter him
from his objective.
The officers at the Cove
delayed him for a little by allow-
ing him to watch Surgeon White
cut off a lady’s leg, and this
excellent performance he re-
enacted with lifelike imitations
of the lady’s shrieks for his
Botany Bay hosts as he made
rapid inroads into the contents
of their tucker-bags.
He had then been offered a
jacket, blankets and a hatchet to
stay in Sydney, but he had
scorned them all. And finally,
when it had been decided to
employ stratagem and feed him
so full that he could not move,
he had happily devoured a large
lighthorseman, a favorite Port
Jackson fish, packed 51b. of meat
and bread on top of it to keep
the load steady, and then, waving
gaily, had set off for Botany
Bay at a smart trot.
He was now delighted, it
seemed, to meet his friends, since
he was very hungry—it was his
inner pangs that had started him
fishing.
After his arrival on the scene,
and especially since he had news
that the wicked Pemulway had
left for his holiday residence far
to the wild south beyond
George’s River, there seemed no
point in continuing the manhunt
for the outlaws. So, wading
streams as wide as the Thames
at Westminster, breasting the
heath between the Lakes, the
column, its pigtails melting and
its coat-tails awry, staggered into
Sydney along the Botany track,
with hatchets shining, ropes still
new and bags, for heads, flapping
empty in the north-easter.
Later sallies against the
murderers were no more suc-
cessful. Lieutenant Dawes did
not take part in them. He had
retired to his observatory near
the tip of the point on the
western side of the Cove.
When, later, considering his
request to be allowed to stay
longer in the colony. Captain
Phillip asked if he had repented
his former recalcitrant conduct,
he replied that he had not and
that he had always “regretted
allowing himself to be persuaded
to comply with the order.”
+ +
Thus he returned unpopular to
England, though hoping to come
back with a wife, and —“out
of benevolence” —to work among
the aborigines. Mr. William
Wilberforce heard his tale and
had him appointed Governor of
Sierra Leone; and eventually he
went to the West Indies, Where
he died about 40 years later, and
nobody knows where to find his
grave.
The murderous Pemulway who
killed Mr. M’Entire lived for
many a year and committed
many another murder before he
received his coup de grace. His
name is almost forgotten, but
that of Mr. Dawes adorns the
point on which he dwelt on the
western side of Sydney Cove.
There, of a silvery evening,
when there is more than the usual
soft mist about, it is easy for
imagination to change ' the
barbered lawns back into their
rugged original contours, to put
the guns which stand there on
their ancient trunnions into their
original setting in Lieutenant
Dawes’s first fort.
Those fey enough to see
goblins and ferlies may even con-
jure up out of the rocks the de-
jected figure of a Marine
astronomer in scarlet gazing
expectantly at the point where
young Mrs. Macarthur was
accustomed to come up the hill
from the town, and imagine that
they hear, through the sullen
muttering of the Harbor Bridge
traffic overhead, the echoes of
the lieutenant’s mutinous words :
“I will not cut off anyone's
head and bring it home in a
bag.”


warn
*e»es&
tea
-r'
I, % \
r.
r?
V'
\
\ ‘
-c^s
• '
- v
V
y~
KT.
w
Su*
4»i- !
WONTe
teLLo*/
" f .
s.
VAi
*aga>
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE ANZUS EXCLUSION
Shelved here for the time
being, to be “discussed” in
London at the end v of next month
when Mr. Menzies is there and
the American Presidential elec-
tion safely over, Britain’s exclu-
sion from the Anzus agreement
continues a touchy topic in the
British Press.
Giving the American view-
point (with which he says “Aus-
tralian officials” agree), London
“Observer’s” Washington corres-
pondent quotes the U.S. State
Department as holding that if
the present tripartite council —•
U.S.-Australia-N.Z. —is to form
the nucleus of some wider
security system for the Pacific
it must not be launched as a
purely “white” organisation.
“There is already enough suspi-
cion of Anzus in the Philippines,
Japan and Indonesia without
bringing in a Power whose main
interests in the Pacific are con-
cerned with the defence of
colonial territories.”
That, the correspondent adds,
is a much more important con-
sideration than the one which
argues that if Britain is admitted
then France, the Netherlands and
other Western countries with
interests in South-East Asia
must be admitted also.
Not Another Nato
It is pointed out also that the
American security pact with Aus-
tralia and New Zealand and the
Pacific Council which it set up
were not an attempt to form a
Pacific Nato from which the
European Powers were excluded,
but were “simply a quid pro quo
for Australia’s agreement to a
liberal peace treaty with Japan.
“The United States does not
believe that the time is ripe for
the development of a general
security agreement like Nato
with all the Pacific and South-
East Asian countries. The com-
mon aim is lacking, and the
economic weakness of most of
the countries makes any sense of
co-operative effort virtually im-
possible.”
The “Observer” correspondent
makes the curious assertion that
the State Department had,
in fact, shown remarkably little
enthusiasm for Anzus until it
became expedient to do so
partly because of Republican
electoral charges that it was
“neglecting Asia.”
Also he makes a point which
seems to have been overlooked
in the general British Press
furore;
“The real centre for planning
and deciding important ques-
tions of common strategy in the
Pacific and South-East Asia
remains in Washington, where
the amount of informal consul-
tation with the British is on a
far more intimate level than with
any other Government.”
Signed, for a Price
Much of the British comment
expresses little more than
offended dignity.
An exception tearing to
pieces most of the American-
Australian case as so far pre-
sented —is an article in London
“Time and Tide” by Patrick
Maitland, who was a “News
Chronicle” war correspondent in
the Pacific, finished the war in
the Foreign Office, and is now
a member of the Commons.
When, writes Maitland, U.S.
envoy John Foster Dulles was in
Australia canvassing support for
an early and favorable peace for
Japan, Dr. Evatt insisted that
neither Australia nor New Zea-
land would sign a peace that
would free the Japanese unless
the U.S. would guarantee their
safety:
“The Anzus Treaty,” Maitland
proceeds, “was signed in San
Francisco on September 1, 1951
—the eve of the peace confer-
ence. Australia and New Zea-
land signed the peace, for a
price.”
Vital Clauses
“Three articles,” Maitland
points out, “are important. The
Third is a pledge to mutual con-
sultation whenever any signatory
thinks that the ‘territorial integ-
rity, political independence or
security’ of any one of them is
threatened ‘in the Pacific.’
Article IV carries the pledge of
mutual help. Each country
recognises that an armed attack
on any signatory in the Pacific
would be dangerous to its own peace
and safety, and declares that it
would act to meet the common
danger in accordance with its own
Constitutional processes.
“Finally, Article V declares
that for this purpose
an armed attack on any of the
Parties is deemed to include an
(r« sjcHO.**"
—New York “Herald Tribune "
A TRIFLE STRAINED
armed attack on the metropolitan
territory of any of the Parties, or
on the island territories under its
jurisdiction in the Pacific, or on its
armed,forces, public vessels or air-
craft in the Pacific.
“A later article provides for
creating a council of the Foreign
Ministers of the three Powers.
The treaty took effect on April
29. The Foreign Ministers met
in September, 1952, to set up the
council, and under a council
resolution military representa-
tives met at Honolulu to set up
a defence committee.
“Britain was refused admis-
sion, even as an observer, to
either of these bodies, despite
the provisions of Article VIII.
This authorises the council
to maintain a consultative relation-
ship With the regional organisations
of States or other authorities in the
Pacific area in a position to further
the purpose of this Treaty and to
contribute to the security of that
area.
“The clause had been entered
at the direct instance of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, since
from the start they had promised
the United Kingdom that once
the treaty organisation was under
way she would be brought in.
For, by virtue of the Common-
wealth tie, Britain would in any
case be at war so soon as this
might befall Australia and New
Zealand. Moreover, there are
British positions of high strategic
importance in that area.”
U.S. Replies Weak
Maitland contends that the
two lines of answer put forward
by the U.S. in reply to British
claims for inclusion scarcely bear
examination:
“On the one hand, to admit
Britain would set a precedent
for admitting others, notably
Holland, France and the Philip-
pines, which would make the
system as unwieldy as Nato.
That, of course, implies that
Article VIII was not intended
to have meaning and was, there-
fore, a misleading concession.
“Moreover, the argument pre-
supposes that Britain and the
other countries might be think-
ing of a general Pacific Ocean
Pact. If so, then the relevance
to the security of the Pacific of
British responsibilities in that
region could be cogently argued.
There was bitter fighting in the
Japanese war in the British
Solomon Islands. The Fijis fur-
nished a fine anchorage and a
vital airbase to the United
States. There is the Franco-
British Condominium of the New
Hebrides, which came in useful
for a nest of airbases. There
are the Gilbert and Ellice
Islands, Borneo and, of course,
Hong Kong.
“Further, neither France nor
Holland has Pacific Ocean de-
pendencies that are already tied
by a defence pact to the United
States in such fashion that an
American blunder (say, in the
Formosan Strait) could auto-
matically land them in war.
France has colonised New
Caledonia and Tahiti. Holland
has obligations to Indonesia. But
none of these is so bound to the
United States by treaty that it
might be automatically involved
in war. As for the Filipino
Republic, it has a separate
defence pact with the United
States, wherefore it can have no
interest to become involved in
extra commitments further afield.
“On the other hand the
Americans have been arguing
through the diplomatic chan-
nels that there is no need for
Britain to join the Pact to obtain
full consultation. For all three
Powers, it is said, are ready to
promise the fullest possible in-
formation under Article VIII.
“This is the more subtle point
For if there is authority to con-
sult and nothing to hide, then
there can be no objection to
Britain knowing in advance what
is afoot and hence having an
observer at all stages and levels.
Yet it is just this which is
refused. And between being
promised full information as an
act of grace, and being entitled
to full information as an ob-
server, there is all the difference
between the right to foreknow-
ledge on the one hand and
courtesy on the other hand of
being confronted with decisions
already taken.”
The Danger
In that, says Maitland, lies
the danger and, for the British
Commonwealth as a whole, a
serious issue arising from the
member-States’ full right to en-
gage in whatever diplomatic
arrangement may be proper:
“For by the Commonwealth
tie Britain is bound to help any
part if it is in conflict with an
alien Power, By the Anzus
Treaty Australia and New Zea-
land could become so involved-
say, through some incident in
which the United States were
alone concerned in the first in-
stance. Through their involve-
ment, then, Britain could find
herself at war, say, with the
Chinese Republic.
“Yet the critical decisions,
taken in the Anzus Treaty
Council, or through the consul-
tations pledged in Article 111,
could have proceeded without
official British foreknowledge
and without Britain, therefore,
having had the opportunity to
exert her influence or to express
a view.
“Here, then, is a case of the
United States voting down two
allies in a matter affecting their
prior and mutual relations with
the kernel of the Commonwealth
to Which they belong. The
American refusal may accord-
ingly be argued to amount to
interference in intra-Common-
wealth relations.
“There is,” Maitland con-
cludes, “a corollary. If, as is
likely, this situation has been
assisted by the dispersal of
British strength consequent upon
involvement in Europe, there
may be a case for reviewing
Britain’s oversea commitments.
“And there is certainly a case
for considering how far the
obligations for mutual defence,
to which the members of the
Commonwealth subscribe, can
be maintained unless all the par-
ties to these undertakings have
equal access to information and
stand, diplomatically, upon an
equal footing.”
Saar Solution
“There is,” declares London
“Spectator,”, “no longer any
doubt that changes in the status
of the Saar are on the way.”
The latest suggested solution
oh the very touchy differences
between France and Germany
over that trouble-corner is what
is called its “Europeanisation.”
Under this scheme (it’s another
to the credit of M. Schuman)
neither France nor Germany
would “own” the Saar. Instead
it could become the centre and
“capital” of the New Europe.
London “Economist” outlines
the claims and differences of
France and Germany and the
proposed solution;
For France, it says, the Saar
has been and still is a solid prac-
tical means of achieving some
measure of parity with German
industrial strength. In 1946 it
was politically detached from
Germany and attached economi-
cally by currency and Customs
union to France ; its steel com-
panies were sequestered by the
French. In 1950 a convention
with the Saar Government con-
firmed the transfer of the coal-
mines on a 50-year lease to
France and integrated the Saar
railways with the French system.
These agreements reinforced
the French in that sphere of


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known-
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACEWINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3h ins-.,
6i x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities; plain or printed.
fs
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan *j;
I Envelope Manufacturers /
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubb'ed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/,6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31 /6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
ii
i I| i»i
m
.. s -\ •■ •■ «•» ? > v . •>.
•V- -•• dli *
/ j'w
1;«»
-, >
.
4
li
df
sdf
sd
msii’
fds
f
/
sf
Radio favorites for 11 years . . .
Because only the best endures, the sprightly, well-
informed “Quiz Kids” have been favorites with Aus-
tralian listeners for more than 1 1 years and their
popularity still grows! Compered by knowledgeable
. John Dease, the “Quiz Kids” and their outstanding pro-
gramme are brought to your home each week with the
good wishes of . . .
JOHNSON AND JOHNSON PTY. LTD.
Produced by The Macquarie Broadcasting Service and presented
over a network of 47 Australian commercial broadcasting stations.
heavy industry where then com-
parative weakness was most
apparent.
The setting-up of the High
Authority of the Schuman Plan
does not, at least for the time
being, lessen the importance of
the Saar to France, for the
national ownership of the coal
and steel is not affected by the
High Authority, and France still
relies upon Saar production to
give it comparable production
figures to those of Germany in
coal and steel and to bring it
into the merger on the'basis of
“industrial parity.”
However, the “Spectator”
notes reports of French willing-
ness now to loosen some of the
economic ties binding the Saar
industries to France. But along
with this goes “the revival of
expression among the Saar-
landers themselves of their strong
affinities with Germany.”
As summarised by the
“Economist,” the German view
of the Saar is that it is German
and that its people should enjoy
the right of “self-determination”
to bring them back into political
union with Germany if that is
their desire.
The French have not per-
mitted branches of German
parties to be organised in the
Saar, and so long as the Ger-
man economy was in ruins and
France was giving the Saar
privileged economic treatment, a
majority of the Saarlanders were
ready —as is their custom —to go
where the bread was most
thickly buttered.
But now Germany’s economic
recovery is exercising its usual
appeal, and if pro-German
parties are organised in the
Saar fresh elections might well
result in a victory for them.
German nationalist opinion de-
mands either such elections or
the holding of a plebiscite so
that the Saar may, as it did
under Hitler after the 1935
plebiscite, “come home” to Ger-
many;
“Into this cauldron of com-
peting national fears and in-
terests, M. Schuman, with the
fertility of ideas customary to
French post-war diplomacy, has
thrown the concept of the
‘Europeanisation’ of the Saar, a
proposal which may yet provide
the needed catalyst. The Saar
territory is, of all European
provinces, probably the one
most suited to such an experi-
ment. Throughout its history
the shifting tide of dynasties and
alliances has washed it from
sovereignty to sovereignty—one
reason'perhaps for the predomin-
ance of economic advantage in
the disposal of its loyalties.
“To become Europe’s ‘District
of Columbia’ and to see Saar-
brticken as the capital of Europe
could well be profitable enough
to ensure the Saarlanders’ sup-
port. Economically the Saar
forms an integral part of the
great complex of Ruhr-Luxem-
burg*Lorraine' heavy industry,
and its Europeanisation would
thus be not only consistent.with
the working of the Schuman
Plan but almost a condition of
its development,”
Canada Strides Ahead
Looking over the Canadian
economic set-up, London
“Financial Times” finds that in
the past 12 years it has “ex-
panded in a way that would be
hard to parallel in any other
country at any time.”
It list! a few examples;
“Farm-production has in-
creased 22 per cent, on pre-
war pulp- and paper-produc-
tion is nearly double.
“Five times as much alu-
minium is being produced, six
times as much oil, 38 times as
much iron-ore; nearly three
times as many motor-cars are
being made and six. times as
many refrigerators.”
Korean Peace
The p.-o .-w. issue having for
some time been regarded as the
only remaining obstacle to peace
in Korea, the final U.N.O. side’s
offer is worth remembering, and
worth comparing with the offer
of the other side.
The U.N.O. side offered, on
establishment of a cease-fire, to
place in a demilitarised zone
agreed to by both sides all
prisoners who have objected to
repatriation.
There, “without questioning,
interview or screening, each
individual so released will be
free to go to the side of his
choice,” All other prisoners
would be repatriated at once in
the normal way.
London “Economist” summed
this up most accurately as “so
“OF COURSE YOU’LL HAVE TO SAY'... AND
OBEY,’ DEAR"
novel and friendly an offer.”
Rejection, it said, “would seem
to confirm a suspicion which
many people have had for some
time —that the Communists do
not want peace in Korea.”
Korea in U.N.O.
Against the otherwise futile
business of U.N.O. vituperating
over Korea, “New York Times”
lists a possible advantage or
two: *
“There is injustice as well as
danger in the continuing assump-
tion in many, quarters that what
happens in Korea is purely a
United States affair. Naturally
the Communists wish to further
this misconception. The
[U.N.O.] Assembly can make it
plain that it is dealing with a
United Nations, not a United
States, war —even though we
[U.S.A.] are carrying most of the
burden.
“In this connection the
Assembly can do at least three
things.
“It can advise that more
member-States be represented on
the truce-negotiating team. This
would be an improvement.
“It can ■ call upon member-
States for more vigorous sup-
port of the military campaign
itself. That., support is needed
both physically and morally.
“Finally, the Assembly can
give fresh impetus to plans and
action for the rehabilitation of
Korea. This is imperative.”
Prophets of Woe
London “Daily Mail” in a de-
bunking mood:
“Malthus foretold universal
catastrophe because of the 19th-
century increase in population.
It did not come. The world to-
day, with all its numbers, is
better fed than at any previous
time.
“The demographers of the
1930’s proved beyond doubt
that, owing to a continued fall
in the birthrate, the population
of Britain would soon be so
diminished that she would cease
to be a nation of consequence.
But the birthrate has gone up.
“Similarly, the prophets of
woe may be wrong about the
forthcoming era of hunger.
[Giving this year’s presidential
address before the British Asso-
ciation, Professor A. V. Hill said
that the conquest of disease had
led to vast increases in popula-
tion, that there may not be
enough food, and that the result
may be starvation, unrest and
even the end of civilisation.]
“On the day Professor Hill
spoke,” adds the “Daily Mail”
comment, “it was reported that
a Norfolk farmer had grown
630 cwt. of wheat on nine acres
of land, which was the highest
ever recorded.
“If that can be done on one
piece of land, can it not ‘also be
done on another? The yields
of most of the world’s agricul-
ture are deplorably low. They
can be multiplied.
“Vast territories have still to
be cultivated. Deserts can be
made fertile—as with the dust-
bowls of America. New strains,
new foods, new processes are
surely awaiting us. The re-
sources of scientific agriculture
have hardly begun to be
employed on this universal
problem.”
Various Voices
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Butler: “Next year is
going to be tougher than this
year,”
\
Montgomery : “I used to tell
the Defence Ministers I would
sooner have one good division
than fifty plans.”
U.N.O. Secretary - General,
Trygve Lie : “The final test of
effective collective security will
always be that a sufficient
number of member-Govern-
ments are firmly committed in
their policies to join in resisting
armed aggression wherever it
occurs, and that they have at
their disposal military power
strong enough to strike back
with punishing effect against any
aggressor nation. This is the
necessary combination of policy
and strength that will achieve
collective security, because no
. nation under these circumstances
will dare to commit an act of
aggression.”
Chiang Kai-shek {after a big
military parade on Formosa):
“Our national revolution aims at
delivering the people from the
tyrannical rule of imperialists
and leading them to the road of
democracy, with the result that
‘popular sovereignty’ may be
realised, and every one of our
people may become an inde-
pendent and free citizen of the
country.”
Britain’s Minister for Labor,
Sir Walter Monckton {on
“human relationships between
employers and workers”): “If
there was something in those
relationships which could lift
from the workers a mood of
re'sentment which springs from a
sense of inferiority, boredom or
fatigue, and lift from manage-
ment a mood of impatience and
defeatism which springs from a
feeling of helplessness in the face
of a complex and difficult situa-
tion, then we would be well on
the way to solving all our
difficulties.”
U.S. Presidential candidate,
Stevenson {speaking atomically );
“Let us not cower with fear
before this new instrument of
power. Nature is neutral. Man
has wrested from nature the
power to make the world a
desert or to make the deserts
bloom. There is no evil in the
atom, only in men’s souls. We
must never delude ourselves into
thinking that physical power is
a substitute for moral power,
which is the true sign of national
greatness.”
US. General Bradley:
“Recent speculation concerning
the effect of atomic weapons on
the defence of Europe has led
to some international wishful-
thinking -in regard to Nato
requirements that we, the United
States joint Chiefs -of - Staff,
believe could be misleading and
dangerous. Optimistic estimates
concerning the availability and
the effects of atomic weapons
could mislead some nations into
thinking that not all of the Nato
forces planned for 1952, 1953
and 1954 need be provided and
trained. Such thinking would not
be justified.”


*
Ws
S 5
m**>
m
1
m
m
p
~
When you strike a long
JStkfakallt
like this
ALEXANDER ST. \
m
L-
'.’COLLAROV
BE - ACH
Heading north on the Pittwater Road is
Alexander Street, Collaroy, which ascends
sharply from coast level to the plateau
with a 1 in 4 grade. This is one of the
steepest and longest grades to be found
in New South Wales.
m
.jm
f THIS IS THE TYPE OF ROAD
HAZARD every driver meets
constantly and where he needs
the extra safety and comfort
given by Goodyear Tyres.
MOttlyectoJyM yufe
The more you travel on Goodyears, the more you
appreciate the wider treads that give extra “bite”
on the road surface ... the stronger shoulders
for extra resilience to absorb bumps and shocks.
You’ll find that built-in Goodyear toughness
gives extra mileage. Proof of the tyre is
in its performance and that is why more
people the world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
r
good/Vear
DE LUXE
TYRES
TOUR GOODYEAR
DEALER NOW HAS STOCKS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cattle and Sheep
“Springvale”; Many farmers
in this Gippsland (Vic.) area run
some cattle with their sheep.
They find that soil-fertility is im-
proved thereby and pasture-man-
agement made easier. By and
large, the small farmer could
help to boost beef-supply.
It is wasteful that surplus
feed growing on headlands
along irrigation channels or on
fallow land goes begging every
year. This year, following
bountiful rainfall in all eastern
States, there is certain to follow
a season of lush pastures. Cattle
thrive on long grass ; sheep dis-
like it.
One holder of 1000 acres here-
abouts, in addition to his sheep,
runs a herd of cattle, a few for
dairying, the majority for fat-
tening. All his drains are kept
clean by the fat bullocks. He
has no trouble with rank growth,
and rotates his crops, letting the
cattle have first access to “new”
paddocks. He claims that the
cattle are a very profitable side-
line.
Skin Troubles of Dogs
“Hux”; Itch, chronic eczema
and mange in dogs may be
traced to internal and external
causes. A dog may be run-down
by overwork or not getting
enough work. Too much raw
meat, too much starchy food, or
food minus vitamins, are also
causes. Lice and fleas can pro-
duce all three conditions.
In itch the skin becomes red,
is sometimes inflamed and hot to
the touch. Hair-shedding, how-
ever, is not usual. One good cure
is sulphur and castor-oil mixed
to the consistency of thin cream
and rubbed gently into the skin
with the fingers. But if licked
by the dog this mixture causes
extreme bowel looseness, and
for this reason applications
should be spaced a fortnight
apart.
A bath in warm water with a
good plain soap about four hours
after the application helps. As
the sulphur opens the pores tub-
bing should be done in a spot
protected from wind and the dog
dried quickly in the sun or a
shed.
Chronic eczema is often mis-
taken for mange. The skin
usually becomes scabby in
parts ; left untreated, the eczema
may spread over the body. The
dog’s energy is down, appetite
poor, and the hair sometimes
falls out. Arecolin tablets, given
according to directions, usually
get rid of the internal parasites
responsible.
The dog' should be taken off
household scraps, bread or
starchy food and given a
balanced diet of raw and cooked
meat on alternate days. To this
should be added a daily ration
of three or four good dog-bis-
cuits ; if the dog is old and his
teeth bad, the biscuits should be
broken into small pieces. A 5
per cent, ichthyol ointment,
mixed by a chemist, should be
rubbed into affected parts about
twice a week.
For mange, often a bad form
of eczema, the palossia sulphur-
ate bath may prove a remedy.
Dissolve loz. of the drug in warm
water and soak the dog all over
for several minutes. Repeat
every three days. Six baths
usually work a cure.
Dogs with itch, eczema or
mange should not be allowed to
mix with healthy dogs. Tying
“I got it for me birthday!”
an affected dog up in the sun for
long intervals worsens any skin
condition.
Artichokes for Pigs
Young pigs thrive on
Jerusalem artichokes. Let into
the paddock when the tubers are
fully grown they quickly ferret
them out.
The crop can be sown up to
early November. First soil pre-
ference is a good loam, but it
also does well on a light gravelly
or sandy one.
Give the ground a deep
ploughing. Equal parts of bone-
dust and super, scattered at the
rate of 3oz. to 4oz. per square
yard make the best fertiliser
when planting. Space the fur-
rows 3ft. apart; allow 2ft. ’6in.
between the tubers and bury
them 6in. deep. About 4cwt. of
tubers will sow an acre. Small
sets can be planted whole, large
ones cut into halves or quarters.
Roots are ready for harvesting
when the top growth wilts,
usually five months after plant-
ing. Young pigs grazing this
crop need a fattening grain as
well.
For Soldier Settlers
“R. Ney”: A Barraba
(N.S.W.) sheepbreeder, W. L. P.
Richardson, has offered through
the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ As-
sociation to donate 25 stud
Merino rams a year to
returned - soldier - settlers north
of Werris Creek (N.S.W.).
Each ram will be worth more
than 20gns. The president of
the association (O. McL.
Falkiner) recently gave 100 stud
rams to soldier-settlers in
N.S.W.
Richardson’s offer has been re-
ferred to N.S.W. Minister for
Lands Hawkins, who administers
soldier-settlement, and to the
State R.S.L.
Lucerne Hay
“Gosford”; Wise growers
always watch carefully the first
growth of the season, for the
lucerne may have to be cut
before the flowers appear. If
weather has been abnormally
cool the leaves may begin to drop
and stems harden without any
sign of a bloom. If you see the
lower leaves changing color in
cool weather start mowing.
A point in favor of cutting the
crop at the exact time —i.e., when
10 per cent, of the stand is in
flower—is that normally you can
get more cuts during the grow-
ing season, which is approx. 30
weeks. Take six weeks as an
average period and you should
get five cuts, all things being
equal. Leave the crop seven
weeks, until more flowers appear
and you get only four cuts.
Mercurials and Cane
“Beroo”: Dipping of cane-
plants in a mercurial solution is
now standard practice on many
Queensland sugar-farms. It is
an absolute insurance against
infection by soil organisms, such
as that which causes pineapple
disease. It is doubly valuable
when low temperature or dry
soil hinders germination.
Some farmers, however, are
loath to abandon their cutter-
planters, so engineers in Ayr and
Mackay have made a gadget for
spraying the sett as it drops from
the knife down the chute. In
one method, by having a per-
forated false bottom to the chute,
the solution is recovered and
recirculated, in the other the
solution runs to waste. The cost
of solution is very little more
than for dipping, but the chief
difficulty is to get the top end
of the sett covered in the fraction
of a second it takes to go down
the chutq,
Sugar Bureau / pathologist,
C. G. Hughes, is noncommittal
as to the spray outfit until he
sees the results of spray versus
dipping trials being conducted
this season.
Dingoes and Hydatids
“Archaps”; P. H. Durie, of
the C.5.1.R.0. research-station
at Yeerongpilly (Q.), has estab-
lished that in the coastal areas
of Queensland adult hydatids
occur in dingoes, and hydatid
larvae in wallabies. This means
that the life-cycle of hydatids is
kept going by wallabies and
dingoes, the latter scattering the
eggs oyer the pastures, where
they are picked up by cattle.
the incidence of hydatids in
cattle in Queensland coastal
areas is very high—in some cases
up to 80 per cent, of the cattle
are affected—and, as the livers of
such cattle are condemned, a
heavy economic loss occurs. The
annual report of the C.5.1.R.0.
for 1950-51 stated that in the
hydatid survey 39,242 animals
were reported on by stock-
inspectors. The overall infesta-
tion figure for cattle on coastal
areas reached 31.01 per cent.
This should result in greater
attempts at dingo-destruction.
Fowl-roup
“Hortus”; A roupy fowl has
a tendency to isolate from
the flock, looks miserable, won’t
feed, but drinks abnormally.
Eyelids begin to swell, sometimes
the eye disappears under the
swelling. The sides of the face
become bulgy, and there is a dis-
charge of sticky matter.
If it is a poor specimen, it’s
just as well to kill it straight
away, before the disease spreads
to the flock. To save it, isolate
it, give it a pill of sulphur and
lard, dropped into its throat, or
a pill made of doughy bread,
soaked in oil of aniseed. Also
bathe the eyes, beak and
breathing-slit with a solution of
10 grains of carbolic acid in an
ounce of water, and put a tiny
pinch of carbolic in its drinking-
water.


YOUR BATTERY
Can Last Forever
With regular use of “CELL-PEP”
(TWICE Yearly)
MK. A. C. HUFFIELD, Longfleld
(street, Stawell West (Victoria),
writes: “My batteries were played
out and would not take a charge.
On adding ‘CELL-PEP’ these bat-
tenes are now fully charged and
holding the charge as new,”
Your Battery Lasts Longer and
Gives More Power with
“CELL-PEP” BATTERY
REJUVENATOR
“CELL-PEP” removes sulphate from
tne plates and prevents further sul-
phating. Freed of sulphate the lead
m the plates reacts with the sul-
phuric acid in the battery and the
now of electricity is restored to
normal.
the battery will hold a
CHARGE LONGER
IN TEN MINUTES you can prove
that “CELL-PEP” saves you big
money. Hundreds of testimonials
received from satisfied users.
Large size treats 12 batteries for a
year for 25/9
Lighting Plant size 37/6
FREIGHT FREE
MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES
(Australia)
Box 844, G.P.0., Sydney.
SIMPLEX 300 WATT
GENERATING SET
PRICE
£75
weight
lOlbs.
Sturdy
battery-charging
and lighting set.
12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
Personal and Missing Friends
WOULD GEORGE PEEKE, husband of
MARGARET PEEKE, or anyone who
knows of his present whereabouts, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zealand?
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARJORIE HAZEL SWART late of
Jervis Bay A.O.T.—TAKE NOTICE that
OORNELIS AREND SWART has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3005 of 1952 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you_ may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney on or before the 6th January 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from RITCHIE & ARNOLD, Soli-
citors, of 5-7 O’Connell Street, Sydney. —
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY VINCENT HOGAN formerly of
Forbes in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that BESSIE JEAN
HOGAN has filed a Petition in Divorce
No. 8091 of 1952 on the ground that
you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause or excuse left her so deserted
during three years and upwards and she
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 31st December
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MEILLON & MEIL-
LON, Solicitors, Forbes, or from BARRY
NORRIS WILDES & LENDER. 60/66
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
"Phenovis” Worm fiemety
fag#...
t
\
to
get
7f
/<//'
trjs
“PHENOVIS"
THE OUTSTANDING WORN REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
c
PHE.BX.BO
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
sd
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
A
m
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
£0 FLIES
*
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple Instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet,
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS; “ '
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N,S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.. Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
.WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P, Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers.
HrSlgs Place.
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
A WHEAT PLAN FREE OF POLITICAL
CONTROL
By Hugh Roberton, M.H.R.
The present wheat-“stabilisa-
tion” scheme, which is due to
terminate with the 1953 harvest,
is not a real stabilisation scheme
nor has it ever resembled one.
It seems to have been deliber-
ately designed to deprive the
growers of the full export-parity
value of their wheat.
It was restricted to that term
of years when the export-parity
price of wheat could reasonably
Hugh R. Roberton has
been a wheatgrower near Old
Junee ( N.S.W .) for 25 years.
He is Federal member for
Riverina, but was thinking
and working for wheat growers
long before being elevated to
Parliament, and is still doing
so. His criticism of the exist-
ing wheat-stabilisation scheme
is made in the knowledge that
the growers voted for it.
Roberton declares that the
Commonwealth Government
will not accept the current
proposals of the organised
wheatgrowers, and that the
wheatgrowers will not accept
the current proposals of the
Commonwealth. He offers his
own scheme as an alternative,
or the basis of an alternative.
Seeding-time is only five or
six months away, and if
growers are to be encouraged
to put more land under wheat
next year a scheme will have
to be ready by December.
be expected to be above the
guaranteed price.
It imposed a wheat tax on the
growers, when the export price
was above the guaranteed price,
to establish a fund for the pur-
pose of meeting any deficit that
might arise if the market price
fell below the guaranteed price.
But since the scheme was
restricted to that period when
the export price was (it still is)
consistently above the guaranteed
price, the fund has never been
necessary for guarantee purposes,
and the tax payments have been
refunded to the growers as each
successive crop rendered each
successive wheat tax superfluous.
This wheat tax has been levied
and collected covering all the
pools under the scheme, and,
although the Federal Govern-
ment has said that it does not
propose to levy the tax on the
next and final harvest, there is
an undistributed sum of about
£l9 million standing to the credit
of the contributor-growers.
Operations of the wheat tax
have absolved the Treasury from
any and every financial respon-
sibility with respect to the
guaranteed price.
The guaranteed price applied
to the entire crop only so long
as the sum collected under the
wheat tax was adequate. If at
any time it had proved
inadequate, thus requiring a con-
tribution from the Treasury, the
guaranteed price would have
been reduced in its application
to cover 100 million bushels.
The superimposition of the
International Wheat Agreement,
in addition to the incidence of
the wheat tax, still further
reduced the responsibilities of the
Treasury under the guarantee.
This scheme has cost the
growers more than £202 million
in sales of wheat for local con-
sumption during its currency. In
addition it has cost the growers
more than £5O million in sales
of wheat made under the I.W.A.
during the period of that agree-
ment, which is also to end with
the next harvest.
That is too great a price for
the growers to pay for the
doubtful privilege of equalising
wheat prices had the export price
fallen below the guaranteed
price.
In my opinion the scheme has
been valueless. It provided a
guarantee for a restricted period
when no guarantee was neces-
sary, it provided for the growers
to meet any deficit incidental to
the guarantee from their own
resources, and it provided for the
sale of wheat in unlimited
quantities for home consumption
at prices far below its true value.
Continuation of the scheme
beyond the next- harvest would
repeat all its inherent weaknesses.
Admittedly a major fall in
export prices would reduce the
losses incidental to selling wheat
for home consumption at con-
cession prices, but, of necessity,
the term of years would be
restricted to reduce the financial
responsibilities of the Treasury
to a minimum.
The alternative is for Federal
and State legislation to provide
for orderly marketing of wheat
by the Australian Wheat Board
free from political control.
This board, acting as agent for
the growers, should be vested
with the power to acquire,
finance and sell wheat to the best
advantage at home and abroad,
subject only to any international
wheat agreement that requires
Australia to sell fixed quantities
of wheat at fixed prices with
adequate guarantees from
importing countries ; to negotia-
tions entered into by State legis-
latures and the board for the sale
of wheat for domestic purposes
at prices uniform throughout the
Commonwealth ; to a guaranteed
minimum price based upon cost
of production plus a reasonable
margin of profit for wheat
deemed to be necessary to meet
domestic requirements or any
other purpose in the national
interests.
There have been revolutionary
changes in wheatgrowing made
possible by the payable export
prices. Very few growers are
now bound by their own circum-
stances to grow wheat regardless
of the agricultural or economic
consequences. For the first time
in our history wheatgrowers can
side-step wheat if they feel like
it. Hence, subject to the vagaries
of seasons, wheatgrowing in the
future will be governed by the
price factor.
As the legislation provides for
a vote of growers before the end
of the current scheme, two ques-
tions should be submitted:
(1) Do you favor continua-
tion of the existing scheme,
subject to the modifications set
out in the appropriate appendix?
(2) Do you favor orderly market-
ing of wheat by the A.W.B.
under the terms and conditions
set out in the appropriate
appendix?
And it should be clearly stated
on the ballot-paper that a nega-
tive answer to both of these
questions would mean a return
to the free market.
Root Crops
“Hortus”: In what is classified
as the Hawkesbury-Nepean area
of N.S.W. I have found the most
successful period for sowing
carrots and parsnips is late
January. Rotation was green-
feast peas (tops and toots
ploughed under), early tomatoes
(plants burnt) and then carrots.
The latter were sown with super,
and dry ashes, and there were
hardly any misses. Beds were
raised to avoid washouts by
heavy rains. By constant inter-
row tillage and side-dressings of
wood ashes, very few of my
plants “throw their growth into
seed-stalks with the advent of
spring” (B. 2/7/’52). Careful
hilling at intervals stops this.
The same could be said of par-
snips and beetroot.
Hints for the Farm
“M.”: To keep a lawn of
English grasses healthy and
vigorous it will need a quarterly
manurial dressing. The follow-
ing mixtures are recommended
by Vic. Department of Agricul-
ture; September, sulphate of
ammonia 4|lb. and sulphate of
iron l£lb. (use at 11b. per 100 sq.
yds.). December, sulphate of
ammonia 4£lb. March, super.
31b., sulphate of ammonia b.
and sulphate of iron IJlb. June,
sulphate of ammonia 4|lb.
“Farmer Bill”: To tan a
snakeskin, soak it in water for a
day or two until the skin softens ;
flesh and fat can be scraped off
after the first 12 hours. Mix
31b. of first-grade or 51b. of
second-grade lime with lOgal.
of water. Stir well and place
the skins in the liquid before the
lime settles. After that, lift the
skins out twice a day to drain.
At the end of 16 days the scales
should slide off fairly easily.
Skins can then be given several
changes of clean water before
drying off. Tanning can be done
with a weak solution of wattle
tannin.
“Quorn”: Washed eggs do not
keep well. If it is necessary to
clean a shell use a piece of fine
emery-paper or a pad of the
softer grade of steel-wool.
“Rooster”; In spring clip
cows’ udders To get rid of mud-
and dust-catching hairs. Clip-
ping means easier washing of
udders and keeps them reason-
ably clean between milkings.
Apart from dirt contaminating
the milk, separators suffer from
the grit passing through them.
“Big Billy”: Apples, pears and
apricots are most commonly
affected by root-borers. Control
measures recommended by Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture : Place crinoline fly-wire
traps around trunks of a number
of trees in an affected block and
spray taps with 0.1 per cent,
D.D.T. every three weeks.
Measures should be continued
for some years as borer-grubs
have a life of up to seven years.
Regular application of 51b. per
tree of a complete fertiliser
should be made in addition to
spraying.
“C.A.A.”; Beans will root
more deeply and withstand hot
weather better if a liberal amount
of compost is dug in along the
seed row for 18in. in width. Give
a dressing of lime at ilb. per
square yard. For later sowings
shelter provided by sweet-corn
and tomatoes is ideal.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The cyclical chart shows rains at the present time, hut
there is no sign of a sunspot group to support the chart.
There are no records of the past by which to check the
cyclical position. To find out if it is part of the Bruckner
cycle would need records in detail of the years 1845 or
1846, and these are not available.
For the present all one can do is to note the cloud
development now in progress, though there is one interest-
ing record of the early days of Sydney. This is a flood in
July, 1810. Add twice that for two main cycles of 71 years,
which is 142, and we get the present year 1952, and again
there were floods in July.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Brisbane’s Milk Supply
There is urgent need for stricter super-
vision of handling and distribution of
milk in Brisbane. The Industrial Court
has allowed milkless Sundays during
winter —by prohibiting deliveries on the
Sabbath from April 1 to September 30.
Now some vendors have decided to con-
tinue this practice through the summer,
despite the failure of their application to
the court for a total ban on Sunday deli-
veries.
There is no existing legislation to
enforce deliveries, and consumers are
further frustrated by an unofficial, and
possibly illegal, agreement among vendors
which prevents a dissatisfied householder
from transferring his custom.
Most milk-rounds are one-man busi-
nesses and vendors little more than
deliverymen, picking up supplies and
returning bottles at the depots of the big
pasteurising companies. Three or four
hours in the early morning suffice for
dumping milk at front-gates —back-door
deliveries went out with the war —and
account work is reduced to a minimum,
since most customers have been bluffed
into leaving cash daily or weekly when
putting out their empties. Many vendors,
after breakfast and a nap, work at other
jobs or use their delivery-vehicles to bring
in further income. Naturally, relief from
the milk-round every Sunday appeals to
them strongly.
During the 1947 State election cam-
paign Labor made extensive use of the
slogan “a refrigerator in every
home.” Under Hanlon and Gair the
Golden Age has failed to materialise,
and in a great number of homes
the small ice-chest is still doing
duty. Bottled milk is already at
least one day old, often more, when
delivered, and the addition of another day
in Brisbane’s humid summer is asking for
trouble. Housewives are worried, but
milk vendors’ president D. Morcom is
unperturbed. He glibly claims that 92
per cent, of householders do not want
Sunday deliveries, and this is probably
only the first step towards an objective of
“deliveries every second day the year
round." — Brutus (Q.).
Old Letters
Destruction of old documents and
family papers (B. 8/10/’52) must have
caused the loss of much historical
material and some of high literary merit,
too. The Rachel Henning letters are a
good example of correspondence by one
who was no important figure nor an
intimate of any such, yet whose letters
are interesting both for their literary con-
tent and the picture they present of Aus-
tralia over a substantial part of the 19th
century.
Kilvert’s Diary, which has become a
minor classic of English literature, was
written for his own pleasure in the 1870’s
by a country clergyman and was not pub-
lished until 1938. Even works by literary
masters may lie in manuscript in obscure
private libraries. Bosvyell’s great London
Journal, lost for nearly two centuries,
was discovered in an Irish country house.
The manuscript of Thomas Traherne’s
Centuries of Meditations was found in
the 1890’s, more than 200 years after it
was written, by a book-lover when look-
ing over a second-hand London book-
barrow. Had he not chanced on it, one
of the most inspiring religious books ever
written might never have been published.
Traherne also wrote a diary, which is
still missing. Perhaps it will turn up some
day in an unexpected place. Owners
of old manuscripts should be careful
before destroying them—they may be
harboring a masterpiece. Dentonio
(N.S.W.).
Shot At Again
A tram in Sydney’s Pitt-street, after
stopping at the Hunter-street corner,
moved off on its journey. Four cars, a
heavy lorry and a utility truck, which
had dutifully halted with the tram, moved
off with it. Then, running diagonally
against them from Hunter-street, came a
man. He wanted to catch that tram.
There were other trams behind it, but he
was intent on that one. He broke every
safety rule there is and caused the utility-
driver to swerve so violently that the
utility shaved the side of the tram. The
man caught the tram and no damage was
done, except to the nerves of the car-
and truck-drivers.
But had he not caught the tram, had
he been hit by any one of the motor
vehicles, knocked out and taken to hos-
pital, and subsequently been able to say
that he was suffering from “retrograde
amnesia” and could not remember the
accident, the driver of the vehicle Which
hit him would, under a new law just
thought up by the N.S.W. Government,
be presumed guilty of negligent driving.
That is one of three “reforms” in a
new bill covering motor accidents. The
other two are one providing that where
a child under seven is hurt or killed by
a motor-vehicle its parents may recover
“out -of - pocket expenses” from the
motorist even though he can prove that
he was in no way to blame, and one pro-
viding that if there are no witnesses to a
hit-run accident the hit-run driver will
be presumed guilty of negligence.
Though there may be points in favor
of the hit-run provision, the others simply
reek of injustice and are wide open to
abuse. If motoring organisations and in-
surance companies handling motor busi-
ness let those “reforms” go through with-
out a roar of protest they deserve what’s
coming to them.
And it illustrates once more the grow-
ing tendency of the authorities to regard
the motor-driver as the offender in all
road accidents merely because he happens
to be the driver. In the Pitt-street episode,
which occurred at 9.10 a.m. last Wednes-
day, that pedestrian might easily have
caught his tram and the utility-driver have
crashed and suffered death or injuries.
“I want to be set down at King-street, please, miss”
It seems that, under N.S.W. law at least,
the motorist is to be deemed guilty even
before the accident occurs. C. S.
(N.S.W.).
Pimps and Penalties
Isn’t that “Plain English” article (B.
1/10/’52) just a trifle severe on union
officials?
The common informer of ancient
lineage is that despicable creature who,
for reward, would betray friend or any-
one else, but whose activities are usually
associated with manhunts and the
betrayal of refugees from the processes
of law.
The pimp, on the other hand, in the
more modern sense of the word, is the
equally unsavory individual who snoops
for evidence of wrongdoing and lives on
the game. My namesake was, at the
turn of the century, a well-known “phiz-
gig” who specialised in the provision of
evidence against sly-grog joints, two-up
schools, gaming-houses and suchlike. I
suppose his counterpart still operates
under official regis today.
Now, is it fair to link the union official
who launches a prosecution as “infor-
mant” (note the shade of distinction
recognised in legal jargon) with those
creatures? He is in no different category
from the police-inspector, the railway
prosecutor, the stock inspector, municipal
officer, electoral officer or the ordinary
citizens who every day lay informations
before Justices of the Peace for breaches
of some law or other.
Regarding the division of the monetary
penalties imposed by courts —there is
nothing novel in the informant getting
half the fine imposed by the court. Unless
the Act in question specifically directs the
allocation of the fine the amount is pai
by virtue of some other Act, maybe the
Justices Act, one half to public revenue,
the other to the informant, who possibly
knows nothing personally of the case, but
relies on witnesses.
In police prosecutions the informants
shares of fines used to be paid to the
Police Reward Fund, and possibly still
are. In municipal prosecutions the whole
of the penalty goes to the prosecuting
council. In Commonwealth cases Sir
Artie’s exchequer grabs the lot. And
when John Citizen is the aggrieved party
he, too, shares the spoil, unless the Act
concerned directs otherwise.
The amendment of the Shops and Fac-
tories Act to enable prosecutions to be
launched by the secretary of an industrial
union doesn’t, after all, violate any prin-
ciple.
At the moment I am holding some
dozens of tradesmen’s receipts for over
£2, and it is quite competent for me to
prosecute them for failing to affix duty-
stamps and collect half the fines, and it
is open to anyone to launch prosecutions
for breaches of the traffic laws and to
benefit likewise. There’s no close pre-
serve for a favored few. Just select youi
Act and it’s an open slather. — Luther
Gabriel (N.S.W.).
“Mugs” and “Foreign-orders”
The Bulletin made a good point (B.
3/9/’52) when it declared that “a breed
of loafers, time-servers and hangers-on
had grown up since the war,” and
continued:
Nobody likes to be thought a “mug”....
Every effort should be made to show the
community that the real mug is the loafer,
the scaler and the opportunist —that is, by
tossing him out of his cosy nest wherever
he can be found.
Among the “loafers and scalers” can cer-
tainly be listed those, usually in Govern-
ment employ, who, while accepting a full
weekly wage, have been doing other jobs
in the boss’s time. Such, for example,
are the “foreign-order” specialists lately
discovered operating in force at various
N.S.W. railway- and tramway-workshops.
When I was up north in war-time with
the R.A.A.F. a foreign-order racket
flourished. Anyone who concerned him-
self solely with his Air Force duties and
did not engage in the “industry” was
regarded as a “mug.” The same attitude
of mind no doubt has existed in the
workshops concerned, and probably
helped considerably to spread the racket.
This mental outlook will have to be
changed.
(The attempt to suppress the practice
has apparently not been as successful as
it should have been, despite N.S.W. Rail-
ways Commissioner Winsor’s recent state-
ment that it had been “stamped out.”
About the same time I heard a chap from
one of the workshops boasting that “they”
hadn’t been able to cut it out.)
• This state of mind has encouraged and
abetted the other rackets that have
flourished almost without check for years,
both in private industry and in Govern-
ment service. Absenteeism and the mis-
use of sick-leave are cases in point.
I know a young fellow “working” for
the railways who got away for a long
time with taking days off regularly while
he did painting jobs on new houses! His
attitude was: “Others do it; I’d be a
mug if I didn’t, too.”
He evidently had no appreciation of
the extra, unnecessary expense incurred
—while he was paid for doing nothing!
Such absenteeism adds to costs, and puts
added burdens on the taxpayer, or, in the
case of absenteeism in private industry,
on the paying customer. Similarly the
“foreign-order” merchant has no thought
for his appropriation and misuse of
Government property.
Show that the racketeers are the real
mugs, by effective action against them,
and the state of mind will be stamped
out. The conscientious worker will then
be encouraged to give his best —with no
fear of being considered a sucker. —K. R.
(N.S.W.).
Child Endowment
While most social services are restricted
by a means-test, maternity allowances
and child endowment are open to every-
body, the idea being that the handouts
should increase the birthrate. They have
been a dismal failure in that respect, and
there remains the anomaly of money
being paid to those not in need of it. The
restrictions applying to pensions should
also apply to maternity allowances and
endowment, the money thus saved being
used to increase unemployment benefits.
The abolition of the means-test is a
nice ideal, but it could only be accom-
plished by compulsory insurance worked
out on an actuarial basis.— Chips
(N.S.W.).
They’re Starting to Think
Shortage in spending-money is doing
State Governments —and the Cahills in
N.S.W. especially —a lot of good. They’re
beginning to count costs.
How public money has been wasted
is now being evidenced on all sides and
out of Minister’s own mouths. What sent
up lamentations from the Cahills in
N.S.W. and from the McDonalds in Vic-
toria was the denial of loan money (on
bank credit) for the spread of public
works all over the electorates of those
States in preparation for deploying
“Labor” voters for the coming polls.
Nothing would drag any such confession
out of them. But look at what some of
them are saying in the most spendthrift
State of all:
Mr, Sheahan (Transport Minister) says
vacancies in administrative staffs will not
be tilled before they are examined for re-
dundancy. “I am strongly of opinion that
the railway and road departments are
heavily overloaded.-”
Mr. O’Sullivan (Health Minister) says he
is convinced that some hospitals’ expenses
for food are excessive, and that £1,000,000
can be saved in that direction.
Mr. Kenshaw (Works) hands over the
the State Tile Works (on which his Gov-
ernment has wasted over £800,000) to
private management and agrees to a clause
in the contract that the labor the Gov-
ernment has “employed” at the works “is
not to be taken over.”
Premier Cahill says Government costs
have been inflated because he has to pay
“the princely salaries laid down by the law-
of the land,” and that, if he doesn’t re-
trench now, he may have to dismiss ten
times as many hands soon.
Mr. Townley (Commonwealth Minister
for Social Services) said in Canberra on
behalf of the Government that “all Com-
monwealth ■ departments had been in-
structed to do their best to get fixed-sum
contracts,” instead of cost-plus.
The millions the Cahills have wasted
on public works still unfinished would
have wiped out their Budget and trans-
port deficits for years past. Instead, in
three years since 1948-49 N.S.W. transport
services have shown an aggregate loss of
£20,000,000, and this is expected to be
increased by at least another £2,800,000
this year.
It is not surprising that taxpayers are
getting a great kick out of these Govern-
ment bowlings about shortage of money
to spend. —F. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Growth of Bureaucracy
Judged by a bulletin issued by the
First National Bank of Boston, Australia
is not the only country threatened by
overgrowth of bureaucracy. Speaking of
the American scene the report says:
“The basic task before the American
people is to establish bulwarks against
further Government encroachment upon
individual freedom. Unless current
trends are checked, the American system,
as we have known it, will be destroyed.
It is ironical that while we battle for
survival against Communism, many of
our domestic policies are based upon
totalitarian principles. To proclaim and
champion abroad the virtues or
democracy and private enterprise is of
no avail if at home we adopt measures
and policies that have all the earmarks
of totalitarianism with its regimentation
and submergence of the individual.
“The greatest menace to our freedom
is the paternalistic spirit of our Govern-
ment that endeavors to extend its shelter-
ing arms about the people in order to
protect them from the hazards of life,
and at the same time to guarantee them
an abundant life. With the advance ot
society and the growing complexity or
our economic system, there naturally
follows an extension of Government
services such as schools, roads, health an
the protection of life and property, hoi
Government activities, particularly m tne


oast two decades, have been extended far
: bevond the essential services and involve
in their many ramifications not only the
invasion of private enterprise but also the
i taking-over of many functions that should
be the primary concern of the individual
or family. , , u .
“The planners are under the impres-
sion that, if they were in the driver’s seat,
by some hocus-pocus the lot of the
common man would materially improve
overnight, inequalities and social injustices
1 W ould disappear, and the entire country
would work together as a big 'happy
family under a planned economy. But
there are no short-outs to Utopia. As a
matter of fact, under a planned economy,
personal initiative would be replaced by
a bloated and sprawling bureaucracy
which would issue innumerable directives
and impose red-tape and regulations that
would strangle enterprise, devour our
substance, trample our liberties under foot
and pauperise our people.”
The picture painted in the last para-
graph is unfortunately only too familiar
to Australians; in fact, if the principals
of Boston’s First National Bank wished
■ to see the sort of bureaucracy they en-
-5 visage actually in operation they couldn’t
i do better than take the first available
I transport to Sydney.
Here they could study—and I quote
but a handful culled from the current
telephone-directory —the Aborigines’ Wel-
fare Board, Rent Control Office, Board
of Optometrical Registration, Depart-
ment of Building Materials, Co-operative
Homes Service Bureau, Dairy Products
Board, Dental Board of N.S.W., Docu-
mentary Films Committee, Dried Fruits
Board, Electrical Contractors’ and Elec-
tricians’ Licensing Committee, Electricity
Authority of N.S.W., Electricity Com-
mission of N.S.W., Fauna Protection
Panel, Government Insurance Office,
Greyhound Racing Control Board, Hous-
ing Commission, Ministry of Housing,
Joint Coal Board and the LI H ary Board
of N.S.W.
There are aiuo the Lord Howe Island
Board of Control, Metropolitan Meat In-
dustry Board, Milk Board, N.S.W. Prices
Branch, Pharmacy Board of N.S.W.,
Physiotherapists’ Registration Board, Post
War Reconstruction Ad visory Committee,
Public Accountants’ Registration Board,
State Coal Mines, State Clothing Factory,
State Lotteries, State . Pre-cut Homes
Undertaking, State Secondary Industries
Division and the Theatres and Film Com-
mission.
After they had gone the rounds of that
formidable group, it would l|| necessary
to tell the visiting Bostonian:'," that they
had merely been in the anteroom of Aus-
tralian bureaucracy, as it were, and that
these were merely the State departments.
Then, after a tour of the Sydney head-
quarters of Federal departments, they
should be taken to Canberra, that dull
country town where the creme de la creme
of Australia’s planners and bureaucrats
rule the roost.
And after that they coald—but by
then they would probably have licked it
back to free-individual Boston with all
possible dispatch. Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Responsibility in the F,S.
The State is entrusted with power to
demand responsibility from its servants
(B. 1/10/’52), and to punish those who,
by neglect or for personal gain or for
any cause at all, evade their duty.
There are two practices in force today
which react sharply against official respon-
sibility. One is abuse of the delegation-
of-control system whereby respon-
sibility for anything unpleasant is shoved
from one person to another until it finally
rests on one of the lower-grade officials
who is so bound by regulations and in-
structions that he finds it useless to
struggle against a departmental decision.
The second is the seniority clause in
wages and salary awards. While the
employee must" be protected in his just
rights for promotion, an equal protection
is necessary to ensure that the most suit-
able men in efficiency and character are
promoted to carry out the jobs which
demand responsibility.
Provisions need to be woven into the
seniority clauses to ensure that the most
suitable men are appointed to positions
of authority.—Ann (N.S.W.).
Freelancing
My own experience of freelancing is
that, as in any other business, earnings
can be substantially increased by step-
ping-up output.
The freelance is essentially a salesman,
and, as such, he must widen his connec-
“You haven’t quite got the hang of it yet, Cranney.”
tions and be continually on the lookout
for new customers. They are to be found
among trade publications, as well as
among the magazines, weeklies and
dailies. The rates of pay are uneven, but
they are there, and all is grist to the free-
lance’s mill.
The radio also offers a lucrative target,
especially if the freelance has the voice
to put over talks as well as the knack of
writing them. If he hasn’t the voice the
A.8.C., for instance, will buy the talk
and deduct tile reader’s fee from that paid
the writer.
Several months ago I was surprised to
receive from a daily, to whose magazine
section I am a regular contributor, a
cheque for three times the amount I had
expected. The paper had increased its
rates.— -Pip Tok (W.A.).
They Like Inflation
it has long been apparent that unions
were intent upon boosting inflation for
its own sake. The remarks by the
general secretary of the A.C.T.U. at the
congress which resolved to resist any
decision by the Arbitration Court which
might be adverse to the union’s case in
the wage-and-hours claim were a franker
expression of the ‘"Labor” attitude to-
wards inflation than any previously heard.
Mr. Broadby said: “While everybody
is concerned about inflation I am of
opinion that the workers are much better
off than under deflation” —“deflation,” it
is to be inferred, being used to cover any
measures to combat the mounting wages-
costs spiral which is inducing “sales-
resistance” and unemployment.
Under strict analysis the “Labor” cry
that wages are for ever running behind
prices of goods and services—that higher
prices precede higher Wages —would be
exposed as false. The best witness of its
falsity is the financial collapse under high
wages of State railway services. That
wages are the predominant ingredient in
ail costs of goods and services is estab-
lished by current statistics, and when to
that is added shortened man-hour produc-
tion for wages paid the argument is in-
superable.
During the past five years the union
enjoyed two mighty boostings of wages
by the Arbitration Court as either a
counter to rising costs or as their share of
“prosperity.” In either case the purpose
was clear and the awards were so
accepted. It was to put wage-earners on
the right side of rising costs. These occa-
sions were the grant of the reduced work-
ing week in 1947 and the specific increase
in the basic-wage in 1950.
The latter in terms of higher wages
needs no explanation. It was an outright
boost of 19s. in the basic wage and in all
awards founded thereon, and its conse-
quences in lifting the level of all costs
could not be disguised. But the like
effect of the four-hours reduction in the
standard (44-hour) working week was
more subtle. In ruling that the then current
basic wage (Sydney) of 112 s. a week
should be paid for 40 hours instead of
the previous 44 the court increased the
rate per hour, and as far as, in order to
meet payment of wages, 44 hours’ work
was still done, the four hours’ overtime
at time and a half represented another
six hours’ wages, which increased the
wage for the week by nearly 17s.
During the boom years that followed
the first of these general awards the basic
wage ceased to be more than a pointer
towards that direction in the sky to which
actual wages were rising. Nobody in the
court, on the Bench or at the Bar, could
find anyone in the community paid ! ;o
low as the basic wage. Even the skilled-
trade margins awarded above the basic
wage were no reflection of actual wages,
for the unions under threat of denying
labor extorted extra-award wages from
employers, content that extra costs should
be passed on to the public (including
workers themselves) in the form of higher
prices of goods.
Wages, says the N.S.W. Railways Com-
missioner, now absorb 19s. of every 20s.
of revenue collected, and to earn that
20s. costs his department 265. Adapting
the famous truth expressed by Wilkins
Micawber: “Income 205., expenses 195.,
result happiness; income 205., expenses
265., result misery.”—K. (S.A.).
Workman’s Weekly Tickets
N.S.W. Transport Department should
do something about the ridiculous travel
stipulations .of its “workman’s” weekly
tickets. If you complete your morning
journey before 8.30 a.m. you can travel
on one of these concession tickets, but
if you are an office-worker, and don’t
complete your journey into the city until
8.35 a.m., you must buy a periodical
ticket, which costs almost double that of
the “workman’s” weekly.
Since these workers who start before
the office-worker or the shop-assistant
generally receive wages equal to those of
the late starter, the concession seems
unjustified. If it is considered that
workers travelling to and from work are
entitled to a big concession in fares, then
the 8.30 limit should be wiped out. —
W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Compensation
Incapacitated returned - servicemen
aren’t the only ones who are far less
generously treated than the victims of
road accidents (B. 8/10/’52). Persons
severely injured at their work, or the
widows and children of men killed in
their employment, are also compensated
on a much more moderate scale.
On the day that £40,000 was granted
to a woman who had her spine fractured '
in a road accident a 34-year-old timber-
mill employee, with a wife and two
children, was granted by consent £2768
for total incapacity—he, too, had suffered
a fractured spine,
Workmen’s-compensation awards are
governed by a fixed scale of charges —
the price for each kind of injury has been
firmly defined by Act of Parliament. A
jury in these cases has, at most, a very
limited degree of discretion. In road-
accident cases a jury can award what it
likes, and too often, as N.S.W. Chief
Justice Street remarkedj they “set them-
selves a new and extravagant standard.”
These lavish awards must force insur-
ance companies to increase their pre-
miums, and make third-party insurance a
very burdensome expense to the motorist.
If the injured one dies shortly after re-
ceiving compensation the real beneficiaries
may well be people who are not even
dependants of the deceased.
Parliament should lay down a reason-
able standard of compensation on the
same lines as in workers’ compensation.
It would not be a bad idea, either, for
bigger awards to be paid in pension form.
The victim would benefit adequately, but
there would be no chance of his early
death bringing a fortune to someone with
no moral claim to the money.— Kanimbla
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 197
Across.
I—Ringer moistened her demagogue.
, (4-6)
s—Spice that kept the caveman’s
spouse quiet? (4)
9—Repaid to give up the job in the
water-grass. (8)
11— Brave fellow in a drug. (6)
12— Bulletin personality used in
brewing. (3)
13— X or DM? The introduction of
a discourse. (8)
14— Edward of Tasmania is perceived
by the tongue. (6)
17— Forebear and Yours Truly spend
31 days in France. (3)
18 — Duck quarries these sea-birds. (7)
19— Courtesy title, except for knights.
21 —Even coming back when born. (3)
23 So sleet changes the condition of
a body without the usual gout
“registers.” (7)
24 — Left personality blushing. (3)
25 — Matrix at a sleepy Australian. (6)
28 —Indefinitely adjourn the sittings
m favor of a scoundrel. (8)
30— —A pillar of salt was formerly wed
to plenty. (3)
31 — Stradivafius trifle. (6)
32 — Definite and indefinite matters in
newspaper features. (8)
33 Racket what is inclined for a
walk? (4)
34 — Deducted when baffled. (10)
Down.
1— N.S.W. town is to prohibit the
medicine-man. (9)
2 Sweet alcoholic refreshment on
ice. (9)
3 You and I twice upset the medico
which is spooky. (5)
4 Brick-carrier. (3)
6 Appropriate fuss over physical
training. (5)
7 -East with an Edward lambed. (5)
8 — Again goes by cloth fools. (8)
10 — East made a joke when fitted
out. (8)
11— Torrid. (3)
15 — The Spanish ego was judge over
Israel. (3)
16— He consults the referee about an
actor named Jose. (8)
18— The ends of sewerage are not at
home on Niagara; (8)
19 — Contests canonise the butler per-
sonality of Red Gap. (9)
20 — Set to rights about nobody like
Lady Godiva. (9)
22 —I make Diego lose his little girl.
(3),
25 —Thin biscuit State with French
iron. (5)
26 — With 19 across, circulars usually
address this cuckoo before morn.
(5)
27 — Calabria’s contribution to the
Italian boot. (3)
29 —French actor. (5)
32 —Beard of the corn, (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 196


TM« entire pare Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE UNITES)
HI V. AGRICULTURAL DEWS
dfs
A monthly feature for an those Interested In Agriculture
1952
NOW THEY’RE SHEARING FASTER
THAN EVER BEFORE
7 v.'v \‘ ' , '-V... /s'* ; v ‘ ,
New Equipment Helps Shearers
Make Light of Heavy Fleeces
Shearing records don’t often make headlines in Australia, but, on October 10, 1892, at Alice Downs Station, on the
ibarcoo, a shearer named Jackie Howe rocketed himself on to the front pages of leading newspapers throughout the
Commonwealth, by shearing the incredible total of 321 sheep in 7 hours 20 minutes.
Howe got a medal, and a lot of publicity from
this effort. He was declared World Champion,
and his tally became the standard every shearer
dreamt of beating.
This first World Record was set with blades,
on sheep that shore an average of 41bs. of
wool. By 1910 that average had been
increased to nearly 81bs., and blade shearers
were straining to keep up their tallies.
In 1910 machines first proved themselves. Dan
Cooper, using them, shore 316 sheep in an
ordinary working day at Bundooran. This did
not quite reach Jackie Howie’s effort, but it’s a
safe bet that Cooper moved a lot more wool,
even though his tally wasn’t as high.
From then on blades were forced right out of
the running. Machines took over completely.
'
■
>*•. >v
M
,;S : >
m
At the Amalgamated Meatcutters, Butcher
Workmen’s Stand during the Union Industries
Show at Boston, U.S., ex-New Zealander, Wil-
liam Horner, showed the people just how they
should shear a sheep. He shore about 12 sheep
a day, and gave a lecture as well, to the
60,000 people who visiterf the exhibit during
the week it wtw open.
Just how U.S. Shearers come to be grouped
under the Amalgamated Meatcutters’ Union
does not seem to he quite clear, but we hope
the name of the Union is not indicative of the
skill of its Shearing members.
But graziers did not stop. They kept on im-
proving their sheep . . . increasing carrying
capacity more and more. This, together with
the new, bent-tooth comb, began to load
machines up to limits they had never been
designed for.
Soon, current model gear, like the blades
earlier, began to slow down under the strain.
Plain bearings on the overhead shafting added
on to power requirements. Oiled-up cone-
pulleys slipped, causing a hesitation in the drive
to the handpiece. This hesitation, in turn,
produced wasteful second cuts, and caused a
plucking action, which bruised sheep, damaged
wool-producing follicles, and retarded de-
velopment of next year s fleeces.
Power required to drive gear, through heavy
fleeces, rose. Cost of fuel went up, and out-
moded engines broke down under the strain.
Handpieces wore very quickly from the in-
creased vibration, and sloppiness of transmis-
sion.
Furthermore, carbonised oil from inefficient
headgear, found its way to fleeces . , . reducing
their market value. It became obvious that the
existing machines were going the same Way as
blades.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., to keep up with the
graziers’ progress, had to produce no less than
four models between 1900 and 1920. But,
by 1930 it became obvious to Moffat-Virtue
Engineers that an entirely new approach to
shearing machine design was needed.
THREE FEATURES
TO SPEED UP SHEARING
In 1930 Moffat-Virtue Engineers began in-
vestigations which were to sweep aside
accepted principles of shearing machine design.
The first result of their investigations was the
introduction of self-aligning Ball Bearings into
the overhead shafting. These lowered friction
drag on the drive, and prevented oil from
getting on to the cone-pulley from the shaft-
ing. Being self-aligning they kept the shafting
in perfect alignment without adjustment.
From then on Moffat-Virtue kept ahead, until
today, with its self-aligning ball-bearings, ex-
clusive Shock-absorber Spring, and “Full-float-
ing Transmission” it leads the world in quality
and reliability.
The Shock-absorber Spring has been designed
to reduce comb and cutter breakages, and pro-
tect the shearer from injury. It put M.V.
Gear many years ahead of other makes in this
respect, and is still incorporated in the latest
models.
In Burrs or other obstructions the Shock-
absorber Spring causes a fractional hesitation
in the drive, without actually disengaging the
handpiece. This hesitation helps clear the
trouble, and the shearer carries on with his
work without interruption.
No mat er what type of sheep you’re shearing
the Shock-absorber Spring does not need
adjustment.
1 o prevent second-cuts, and bruising of sheep
through “plucking” Moffat-Virtue have also
incorporated Full-floating Transmission into the
drive. This Transmission eliminates “drag” on
the cone-pulley from the downtube, and pre-
vents the shearer from putting a brake on his
drive, when he pulls hard on the downtube.
RECORD
TALLIES...
1884 — At Belalie on Warrego —Sid Ross shore 9
lambs in 9 minutes.
1885 — At Charlotte Plain on Warrego—Alick
Miller shore 4,362 sheep in 3 weeks and
3 days, averaging 203 per day.
188 S —-Jack McDonald (The Splinter), weigh-
ing 6sfr. 9lbs. —shore 187 full-fleeced
wethers in 7 hours.
1886’ —At Eversha—Jimmy Fisher shore 50
lambs m one nn before breakfast—about
1 hour SO minutes.
1892—-At Alice Downs on Earcoo — Jack Howe
shore 321 sheep in 7 hours 20 minutes.
1810— At Bundooran— Dan Cooper shore 316
sheep in an ordinary day, using machines.
1950—At Brine,rd near Cloncurry— W. E. Rieck
shore 326 sheep in 7 hours 48 minutes
using: machines. ’*>»;• - v
Another great effort was that of “Long”
Maloney, who shore 32,000 sheep during one
season through South Australia, Victoria and
N.S.W.
These figures were kindly supplied by the
A.W.U., Sydney. Except where mentioned, we
presume the tallies were set with blades.
Full-floating Transmission takes up variation in
transmission speed, and converts it into a
smooth, steady flow of power, through to the
handpiece. This is another feature found only
in Moffat-Virtue Gear.
JACKIE HOWE WILL
BE BEATEN YET
The latest Moffat-Virtue “Full-Sowing Trans-
mission” Shearing Gear has given the shearing
industry a new impetus.
This Gear gives Graziers the answers to the
problems found in old-type gear. Today, with
the average sheep shearing well over I Olbs. of
wool, Gear like this must be used for trouble-
free, economical shearing.
The season before last, at Brinard Station in
Queensland, W. E. Rieck shore 326 sheep in
7 hours 48 minutes. This wasn’t far behind
Jackie Howe’s famous record, and shows, quite
clearly, just how efficient the modern Shearing
Gear has become.
Old-type Gear and Blades all did a good job in
their day, but the grazier has outgrown them.
Now he must have modern, highly-efficient
Gear if he is going to get through his shearing
quickly and efficiently.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
