

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3779
Wednesday, July 16,1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
VENERABLE EVEN IN RUIN IS ELGIN'S ANCIENT CATHEDRAL
ON the south bank of the River Lossie in Moray stands the county town
and Royal Burgh of Elgin, famous for its thirteenth-century Cathedral.
Elgin has a long and stirring history, and at one time it played a consideraoie
part in national affairs; its charter, granted by Alexander II in 1234, is
still P^ e^ e v^ ars independence the men of Elgin were among the staunchest
suDDorters of the nationalist cause when William Wallace raised the banner ot
revolt against the rule of Edward I. During the Jacobite risings of 1715 and
1745, Elgin took the Hanoverian side. A few weeks before the Battle of
Culloden in 1746 and the final overthrow of the Stewarts, Prince Charles spent
eleven days at Thunderton House in Elgin. .
Apart from these great national events the history of the burgh is largely
bound up with that of its great Cathedral, which was founded in 1224. Forty-
six veara later it was seriously damaged by fire. In 1390, however, it suffered
a worse disaster when the “Wolf of Badenoch,” brother of Robert HI.
descended on it with a company of “Wyld, wykked Hieland-men and set it
on fire. The reason for this iconoclastic deed was because the Bishop,
Alexander Barr, had incurred the Wolf’s displeasure by reporting some of his
misdemeanours to the king. Within a few hours the lovely lanthorn of the
North” was a heap of smouldering ruins. Wolf was excommunicated from
the Church, but did penance at his father’s command, and promised to make
reparation the scene anot her dark deed in 1554, when,
during vespers on New Year’s Eve, a long-standing blood feud flared up
between the Dunbars and the Inneses, two powerful Moray families. Swords
S daggers glittered in the flickering candlelight, and before the combatants
rould he separated many had died during these “Bloody Vespers.”
I n 1569 by order of the Privy Council, the roof was stripped of its lead
to nav the troops, and in 1640 the General Assembly ordered the interior to
be Snantled. Gradually the great Cathedral fell into rums, which today are
carefully tendered as an ancient monument
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT SB CANNON STREET LONDON


Learn
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address ............................ ta ...
(5.8.252) ...Age
fg
DON
DALLAS
“Don Dallas has brought Russia to Life”
Walter Allen
Don Dallas was a newspaper correspondent in
Moscow for two and a half vital post-war years.
The reader is shown the interiors and working
of Russian theatres, a Russian court of justice, a
marriage registry office, a Moscow school and a
summer Pioneer camp for children. This book
reveals how Russians live, love and die under
the banner of Stalin.
At all Booksellers, 26/6. HEINEMANN
The Red Page
NOVEL FROM THE GERMAN.
No doubt a certain intellectual massive
ness, Teutonic in its slow movemen
through a ponderous complexity, is th
true basis for the great international repu
tation Thomas Mami has made in con
temporary fiction ; but there are time
when one wonders whether his lighte
novels such as The Transposed Heads
which he seems to write turn-about fo
a holiday from his more serious works
will not in the long run prove the mos
enduring.
Certainly his new novel The Hoi
Sinner (Seeker and Warburg), which is
the ironic vein and happy mood of Th
Transposed Heads, is infinitely more read
able than its immediate predecessor, th
attempt to analyse the sick soul of Hitler’
Germany in Dr. Faustus ; and, becaus
it is alive where the other was dead, fo
all its lightness it is a better work of art
Based on the verse epic Gregorius vom
Stein by the Middle High German poe
Hartmann von Aue, who, says the author
took his legend of chivalry from the
French, The Holy Sinner is something
quite extraordinary in the run of modern
novels: a book that nobody else excep
perhaps John Cowper Powys or James
Branch Cabell could have attempted.
It tells the legend of the first Pope
Gregory, set in the days of the break-up
of the Roman empire (a collapse memor-
ably described when the story moves to
Rome); how a brother and sister, ruling
a kingdom in Flanders, committed incest
how the boy born from that union was
put to sea in a tub, cast ashore on one
of the Channel Islands and was brought
up there by the abbot of the monastery;
how, grown to manhood, he wandered
back to his native land, where, her con-
sort having died on a pilgrimage of re-
pentance, the youth married his own
mother; and then how, after chaining
himself to a rock for 17 years after dis-
covering that he had committed this
monstrous error, he was rescued by
divinely-appointed messengers to become
a Pope renowned for his justice, wisdom
and clemency.
Of course only readers trained in the
school of Rabelais could attempt to tackle
a novel in which the basic events are so
unusual; and indeed, since Rabelais was
concerned in the comedy of the normal
rather than the tragedy of the abnormal,
the reader would probably also need some
acquaintance with ALschylus and
Euripides.
But once the reader is thus prepared
to accept the novel on its own terms it
is wholly a delightful and fascinating
piece of work.
One of the most admirable things about
it—and the point at which it differs from
Jurgen —is Thomas Mann’s ability to
change his tone from the comic to the
semi-tragic, so that the actual scenes of
abnormal love, which could not be
treated in Cabell’s light vein, are given
their due weight of horror; while, at the
same time, remaining remote and
legendary, never meant to be wholly real,
they still fit into the general mood and
pattern of comedy. It is, indeed, the
sustaining of this legendary quality that
makes the whole thing possible, and this
is effected by the adoption of an archaic
style admirably and amusingly translated
by H. T. Lowe-Porter with something of
the effect of Urquhart’s translation of
Rabelais.
Thomas Mann is more violent than
Rabelais; one of the love-scenes is
nothing less than ferocious in its mixture
of tenderness and shame and horror. It
is like French good-humor filtered
through a Nordic saga and taking some
fierceness from the process. He is also
perhaps more bizarre, unless it is just
that Gargantua has for so long been
familiar to us —the scenes where the
sufferer on the rock dwindles to some
kind of sub-human “hedgehog” seem
unique in their unexpectedness. He is
also much slighter: the novel is a strange
tale, not a vast religion of the earth.
But what balances his fierceness and
gives the book its particular appeal for
a modern sophisticated audience is the
humorous and sympathetic drawing of
the minor characters, notably the abbot
of the Channel Islands who is mildly
worried about the lives of the fishermen
he has sent out into the storm but, at
heart, rather more worried about the
possible loss of their supply of fish.
It is tempting to read the story as a
parable, impregnated with some high
mystical or moral meaning; and indeed
Thomas Mann at the conclusion suggests
such an approach:
Clemens, who has thus brought the tale
to the end, thanks you for your attention
and gladly accepts your thanks for the
pains he has spent. But let no one who
has enjoyed the story draw a wrong moral
from it and think that sin is a slight thing.
....That is a devil’s whispering. First
spend seventeen years on a stone, reduced
to a hedgehog, and bathe the afflicted for
more than twenty, you will see if all that
is a joke! But truly it is wise to divine in
the sinner the chosen one, and wise that is
too for the sinner himself. For the divining
of his chosen state may make him worthy
and his sinfulness fruitful so that it bears
him up for high flights.
But The Holy Sinner seems, on the
whole, too light-hearted and far-fetched
to carry much weight as a parable; and
is rather to be regarded simply as a
display of virtuosity in the craft of story-
telling ... a return to the tradition of
pure entertainment, at once bizarre and
earthy and full of profound and ironic
observation of human-nature, in which
the great names are Rabelais and Cer-
vantes. People enjoy something strange
in a novel; they enjoy comedy; they like
to see their neighbors shrewdly observed ;
and they like, in whatever acceptable
disguise, the basic human interests of
crime and sex. Thomas Mann seems to
have set out to give his readers all these
things, on the grand scale in a way that
only a master-craftsman could dare
attempt; and the venture is wholly
successful.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
In a campaign to publicise
Australian literature the Australian
Book Publishers’ Association is
beginning a series of monthly co-
operative announcements in “The
Bulletin’’ and some of the leading
dailies, listing all new Australian
books. At the end of the year the
monthly lists will be collated into a
catalogue. The initial list, covering
January-June, 1952, appears on
page 19 of this issue.
The French Spirit.
“The underlying rustic warmth...,
that is peculiar to the French” (B.
4/6/’52) of Daudet’s Sappho is to be
found again in The Heart’s Memory,
pages from the Diary of Madame de
Lamartine, edited and translated by
Eustace Hargrave (Dent).
Madame de Lamartine was mother of
the great post - revolutionary, post-
NajJoleonic poet, Alphonse de Lamartine ;
she was a Palace playmate of the future
King Louis-Philippe; she was married at
fifteen to a younger son of the Lamartine
family, an officer who fought with the
Garde Constitutionnelle and the Swiss
Guard to protect Louis XVI and escaped,
though wounded in the Tuileries garden,
the massacre which followed the King's
surrender. He lived in the country until
the people dragged his aged father and
mother, his two brothers and his three
sisters, nuns driven from their convents,
to prison at Autun.
Our diarist’s husband was put in a
separate prison; Madame de Lamartine,
still free, was able to see him across two
walls and a narrow street; they con-
versed by signs; she practised archery,
and shot an arrow attached to a wire
across to her husband, and by the wire
sent him letters. Afraid that he might
be executed at the whim of one of the
all-powerful envoys of the Convention,
she toured the countryside carrying baby
Alphonse, accepting the insults and
threats of the revolutionary jacks-in-
office, until she got a kindly hearing from
Javogues, who is thought to have pre-
vented her husband’s coming up for trial
—“for an order for trial in those days
was a sentence of death.”
Set free at the end of the Reign of
Terror in 1794, the aged head of the
family died ; and though the younger De
Lamartine might have challenged his
older brother’s right to a lion’s share of
the estates under the new laws suppressing
the right of primogeniture, he stuck to the
old ways, retaining only a small estate at
Milly which had been assigned him on
his marriage.
Madame de Lamartine had thus to be-
come in earnest the shepherdess at which
court ladies played so elegantly in the
happy days of Marie Antoinette; and the
diary, beginning in 1801, is a record of
this simple life. It is hard for us in these
days to see anything simple in a square
stone house with dining-room, drawing-
room and kitchen on the ground floor
and ten bedrooms upstairs—the “huge
cupboards of carved walnut such as those
m which peasants keep their household
linen’ would alone be worth a small
fortune these days—or six servants, or a
garden of a quarter of an acre, or even
an income of three thousand francs. In
spite of the Revolution, the French
servant and the French peasant continued
with the really hard work of holding the
mirror up to Nature, while their masters
continued reporting what they saw in it—
there, no doubt, is the condition of the
French spirit, “so clear, so gentle, such
good company; and never boisterous,”
as Renoir spoke of it; Renoir, who
chose his maidservants for their solid
suitability as nude models,, add considered
no woman worth painting whose hands
were not roughened by housework.
The charm of the book is not least
to be found in the poet’s introduction and
epilogue; especially in the epilogue,
where he describes the journey back
through the snow' with his mother’s body
in a coffin.
At baths maintained by the Sisters of
Charity in Macon, Madame de Lamar-
tine had been unable to close off the hot
water; she was badly scalded and died
the following morning. Her son, arriving
three days later, had the coffin exhumed
from the Macon cemetery and carried
on the shoulders of Milly cottagers, first
to Milly, then to Saint Point. The account
makes wonderful prose, the scene
exquisitely colored and, the coffin on the
backs of the villagers “dependent on our
property at Milly,” followed by their
wives and children in sabots thrdugh the
snow, “clothed in their poor mourning
garments,” is an epitome of what one
has been saying about the basis of the
French spirit.
R. McC.
An Italian Novel.
The Mill on the Po, by Riecardo
Baccheli, translated by Frances Frenaye
(Hutchinson), is a very long, very ambi-
tious Italian historical novel.
The translation is stilted and, along
with a lot of colorful and exciting story-
telling, there are weaknesses that must
lie in the Italian as well as the English
version. There is no real humor ; a few
amusing situations, a sprinkling of peasant
drollery, but not a single true jest, or
comic character.
The action starts in Russia during
Napoleon’s retreat from Moscow, and
beside the war scenes in War and Peace
Baccheli’s campaign horrors become in-
significant. Voynich in The Gadfly ex-
posed the corruption of the Italian church
at this period more effectively. Baccheli
is less of an architect than Barnard Elder-
shaw in constructing an edifice of family
life ; and the Po in flood is never as
convincing as is the Yellow River in the
descriptions of, for instance. Pearl Buck.
Yet with all these reservations The Mill
on the Po has not one boring page ; the
cumulative effect is moving and impres-
sive: it achieves, with all its ineptitudes,
a poetic quality. How? Why?
The answer would seem to be that its
incidents and characters, no matter how
composite, are based most carefully and
faithfully on actual facts and people.
Baccheli does not scorn a device, long
outmoded in English novel-writing, of
intruding himself as narrator. The siege
of Bologna reminds him that his own
peasant grandmother, wife of a lawyer,
gave birth to his father on the first day
of the siege, spending the rest of that time
of horror in a cellar. At other times he
briefly walks on stage to vouch for the
authenticity of some episode.
As for “The Mill on the Po,” it is a
character in itself, and one, it seems, that
is found no more in Italy. It was a float-
ing water-mill, the wheels set in twin
hulks which permit of limited mobility
and, of course, great danger from floods.
The millers were an independent tribe
and smugglers appreciated the conveni-
ence of their mills. A good setting for
an account of Italian life in the difficult
years when internal unification, and the
expulsion of the Austrian army, caused
the Papal State, the city of Ferrara, and
the near-by reaches of the Po to be the
scenes of so many curious and interesting
events.
Various Verse
SNOWGUMS.
Moonlight and snow and snowgums:
After much living turn, return
To the soul's climate, to cold forms
Wind cuts in ice and stone.
There stand like Socrates
Barefoot through the winter’s night;
Burn in snowbound silences
As the trees hold the moonlight.
The powdered bloom along the bough
Wavers like a candle's breath;
Where snow falls softly into snow
Iris and rivers have their birth.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
FOXES.
I saw a fine fox, I saw a fine fox,
He held up a rabbit in his mouth
And that was at Duckmaloi.
There were granite rocks
In the tumbled hills
And willows all gold
And hot red berries
In the wild-briar’s teeth.
Oh who was his double, the other
fine fox
Who leapt from my heart where
he smoulders?
They met that morning in joy.
There were huge grey rocks
Very round, very old,
And the little red bells
Of the berries all rang
As the fox ran away on the
boulders.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
ENVY.
A sea-shell here, a pebble there;
These symbols in my mind I bear.
I would make a stone ray mind.
1 would make a shell my ear.
At bud-burst shines a golden stone;
From neap-tide comes a silver shell.
Stone and shell would be for me
Conception of the flowering tree.
And music that is lost beneath
The weight of oceanic pulse.
O sun that dares the bare wood bring
To life the dryads of the spring!
O shell that sings an image white,
A spiral sound-wave from green night!
N.S.W.,
MARGARET IRVIN.
STORM.
On the headland's grassed and sheltered
side
out of the wind I crouch and watch
while driven by the seaward ship-destroy-
ing storm
races of insane processional breakers
come.
A long-dead divine authority reflows the
tide
at evening, and already the gnawed hill of
beach
alters and shrinks. The waves cry out,
Let us be done.
Let us be done with the long submission,
the whips
that hurl us forever on time's* frigid stone,
mouthing our ever-repeated plea for an
answer and getting none.
Let us break free, smash down the land’s
gate
and drown all questions under a black
flood.
Hate then, the waves cry, hate.
And round each headland of the world,
each drenching rock-
crowding each wild spray-drop, as in the
womb’s calm lying,
they beat and whirl on the waves, the in-
visible legion
of momentary crystals, less - than - a -
second’s-tick-
lives, love’s first and everywhere creation;
so small, so strong, that nothing of all this
mad rock-torn
surge and violence, not the storm’s final
desperation
touches them, busy in the unhurt stillness
breeding and dying.
QUEENSLAND,
JUDITH WRIGHT.


i
• • •
'
: :
,
■
m
:
MBfl
■
mm
m
m
/ J ; i : '
P v j ' > *V
:. .
■
’ ■
: I ■
■
: ■
iiSi
iiiiiii
■
: '
I I
M
:
WA
A
m
; m
a
■
sra
-
I
I
r>
i —’
/*■-
?.../!
« ■ ’•-.
' \ &
: # vX
Any size “Dunlopillo” made to order
, . • And now you can have comfort made to order# Soft, ventilated comfort • • • heavenly
comfort —Dunlopillo. We will shape Dunlopillo to any size you want to fit
CODES
your mattress, chairs, car seats, outdoor furniture.
Any size, any shape! Make this your greatest
investment in comfort. It will be, for Dunlopillo
is HEALTHY —it is germ proof, CLEAN —it repels dust and is ECONOMICAL.
Dunlopillo will retain its resiliency and lasts forever almost. Send us
your instructions on the size and shape you want and we will deliver your
Dunlopillo in three weeks. 2” thick, 22/- sq. ft.; 4 thick, 35/- sq. ft.
CODE s—The round cushion for
chairs in the office or kitchen, 15in.
diameter, 2in. thick. Uncovered
19/-, with tapestry cover 28/-.
CODE 20—The D-shaped cushion,
comfortable in car bucket seats.
17 xl7 x 3in. thick, uncovered
50/-, with tapestry cover 61/6.
. , }. ■
CODE 48—A durable, resilient
“Dunlopillo” cushion for plough
or tractor seat. In uncovered
rubber, it is priced at 31/6.
CODE 57 A square - shaped
cushion that gives extra lounge chair
comfort. Size 18 xlB x 2in. thick,
it is priced at 36/9 uncovered.
CODE 58 Thicker, spongy
cushion, suitable for lounge-type
chairs. Its size is 19 x 19 x 3in.
thick. Priced at 55/6 uncovered.
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
i
CODE 57
CODE 20
>V\-
V : '
■
m
i
■
......
wm
m
COOE4B
CODE 62
■
i m mm.
CODE 89
:' 'V
a m
CODE 150
Dunlopillo designed for comfort
Designed for comfort, Dunlopillo is made of millions of tiny
breathing air cells, made from processed Lastex rubber.
CODE 62—Reversible hospital cushion, 18in. in
diameter, with 6in. centre hole. Uncovered, it is
priced at 37/6.
CODE 89 —Bucket-type cushion for car, office or home
chair. 17 x 17 x 2*in., it is 34/9 uncovered, 45/3
with tapestry cover.
CODE 150—A reversible loose cushion with cellular
inside. 18 x 18 x Jin., price is 40/- uncovered, 65/3
with tapestry cover.
DUNLOPILLO - LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. BOX 2712 c, G.P.0., SYDNEY. PHONE
M 2401 DAY OR
NIGHT
üßk WSmd


PERFECT
CONTROL
IN THE
TIGHT SPOTS
MILLERS FIND THE INTERNATIONAL TD-24 CRAWLER
TRACTOR EASY TO MANOEUVRE EVEN ON SO PER CENT GRADES.
Here are the reasons: Inter-
national’s exclusive Planet Power
Steering. You get fingertip hy-
draulic control for pivot turns,
feathered turns, and turns with
power on both tracks. There are
8 speeds forward, 8 speeds in
reverse and synchromesh trans-
mission. Shifting “on-the-go” is
simple, and you go up or down
one speed without declutching.
Those are the features that make
operators say “For perfect con-
trol in the tight spots, Inter-
national TD-24 beats anything.
No other tractor in the forest can
compare with it. It’s more
powerful, and it’s far easier to
handle on 50% grades than any
other tractor”.
Here are some phenomenal re-
sults Mr. A. G. Hams of West
Australia obtained with his Inter-
national TD-24 Tractor and Arm-
strong-Holiand Builgrader. He
reports clearing 7 to 8 acres per
hour of mixed white gum, red
gum and jarrah trees up to 3 ft.
diameter. These trees were
pushed out without any special
Pusher Bar or attachments.
On one dam sinking job a check
revealed 2,000 yds. were pushed
out in one day. Industrial Sales
and Service in all States can
supply particulars of the most
suitable International Crawler
Tractor and Armstrong-Holland
logging and land-clearing equip-
ment for your particular needs.
' 1
24/
INTERNATIONAL TD~24 and logging arch with 8,000
feet of logs on the way to the landing and
grades up to 50 per cent along the way. This
Agile Giant TD-24 snigs out IS truck loads a day
and dozes across roads.
A322/1300
The Agile Giant on the job. At right—Mr. A. G.
Ham’s International TD-24 on a typical land-
clearing job.
: ifi
-
D
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVILE
BRISBANE SVDNEV MELBOURNE HDBRRT ROELRIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3779
Wednesday, July 16, 1952
i i s£
X-y
' S*7 S
&
dfg
X x-
s I
Py A
GO
x
V \r
fg
fg
<*X
f
</?7
Xes
yXX
k/ £>
Xy
X 1 e fe
*zvks<
gf
gf
g
/^y
—X /
V \^.s
uxex>
GERM WARFARE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
CALLING A HALT.
When the Loan Council met in May and
N.S.W. Ministers there threatened the
Prime Minister with political exploitation
of an unemployment scare unless their
extravagant demands for, money were
satisfied, Mr, Menzies retorted that they
would find it a case of diamond cut
diamond. At the Loan Council meetings
last week he made his words good
to the extent of offering, in the
politest language, to give the States back
their former direct taxation powers. To
this surprise move there was a decidedly
mixed reception.
Not only have the three large eastern
States made a political racket of taxation
and loan distribution, but the “Labor”
party, which rules in each of them,
owes its recovery of what it calls
“popular confidence” in itself to entirely
base electoral campaigning. They have
demanded both extravagant sums for
expenditure and reduced taxation by the
Commonwealth Government, which must
raise the money; both the combating of
inflation and the issue of inflationary
bank-credits to meet current State
expenses. If the principle of uniform
taxation can be sustained only by a con-
tinuation of the shabby business which
is demoralising public finances and Par-
liaments alike, then it must go. It is
making a farce of Loan Council meetings
also.
At the latest of these meetings the
Premier and Treasurer of New South
Wales, speaking of his own administration
of the senior, richest and chief industrial
State of the Commonwealth, declared that
in the financial year just opened
N.S.W. faces higher costs and falling
revenues, and, as regards its railways
especially, increasing deficits on top of
accumulated losses of £I3J million during
the past five years. Deficits were also in-
creasing in ail business undertakings and
port authorities’ accounts.
Kailway expenditure cannot be reduced
proportionately.
Even if there were no further basic-
wage rises, wages bills in all Government
services will rise considerably. (“We
recently increased schoolteachers’ wages
by million annually” was one instance
quoted.)
On these prospects Mr. Cahill argued
thus:
I know the Commonwealth has to bear
the brunt of raising taxation revenue, and
that there is strong pressure for reduced
taxation.
But the Commonwealth has a strong
moral obligation to the States to ensure
their financial stability. A wrong judg-
ment by the Commonwealth could be
serious for the States or serious for the
Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth should decide on the
amount of reimbursement, having regard
to the States’ increased costs, to avoid
unemployment and falling incomes.
The plain meaning of this language by
Mr. Cahill, supported in it by all “Labor”
Premiers on their own figures, is to reveal
the complete irresponsibility of his Gov-
ernment for the bankruptcy of his State’s
finances, his inability to reduce expendi-
ture (as well as some indifference towards
that duty), and his belief that the Com-
monwealth Government, even at the risk
of injuring the economy of Australia as
a whole, should somehow provide and
“allocate” to the States sufficient money
to finance their uncontrolled and rising
expenditures as a prior consideration in
the preparation of the Commonwealth’s
own Budget.
This is rank political skullduggery. It
is to be judged along with the record that
Mr. Cahill has fought and won two by-
elections by denouncing the Common-
wealth Government for not giving him
the money he “demands,” and has
threatened to precipitate general elections
in N.S.W. on the winning slogan (as he
views it) that, by voting for him, the
N.S.W. people can compel the Common-
wealth Government either to “find” the
money or go out of office. “Labor’s”
puppet-Premier of Victoria has used the
same electoral tactics.
In this light Mr. Cahill’s statement that
the Commonwealth —including the 60
per cent, of taxpayers outside N.S.W. —
has “a moral obligation to ensure the
financial stability” of N.S.W. is impud-
ence of the first order. He admits that
his Government’s finances are bankrupt,
that the costs of its transport services and
business undertakings are out of hand
and growing more unmanageable year by
year ; yet he “cannot reduce expenditure.”
Since “finance is government and govern-
ment is finance,” his confession is that
his Government cannot govern. By direct
statement or by implication, the Premiers
of the two chief States —both of them
operating the “Labor” policy of “pre-
venting the Menzies Government from
governing”—demand of the Common-
wealth Treasurer that this year’s nation-
wide taxation receipts shall as a first con-
sideration be applied to meet last year’s
deficits in their States’ railway and road-
transport operation, as well as increased
deficits expected in the present year ; and
that, alternatively, bank-credits shall be
provided to pay these bills.
Balancing Budgets by such methods
is the short and swift road to
abdication of financial responsibility by
all Governments, the bankruptcy of
public accounts, and the collapse of
employment, wage-standards and the
currency. The due answer from the
Commonwealth was an emphatic “No.”
In all debates on these outrageous State
“claims,” made by State “Labor” Gov-
ernments for the most part and re-echoed
by Federal “Labor” leaders, there was
not one word of consent to any ordered
planning of loan-expenditure for the com-
pletion of first jobs first. An acceptance
of a strict priorities for public works was,
as Mr. Menzies says, a condition of the
grant by the International Bank of a
further instalment this year of the spread
dollar-loan to Australia.
State Premiers are strangely ill-advised
if they suppose the confidence of the
investing public is not seriously impaired
by their contempt for thrift. “Labor”
leaders who have been bellowing
for more loan money—declared to
be “withheld” from them by the
Commonwealth know well enough
that their demands are unlikely to
be met by more than a quarter from
loan subscriptions. The public knows
this, too. A Loan Council which pur-
ports by a majority of mendicant spend-
thrifts to “vote” sums of money which
do not exist and cannot be borrowed is
only playing the fool with its responsi-
bilities and its chances of attracting loan
investment.
Treasurer Fadden told the States that
only £64 million of new loan-money
was raised last year, and that making up
the deficiency in the States’ needs involved
the Commonwealth in a liability of a
round £153 million. This was met in
part by surplus revenue (£9B million)
and for the rest by an allocation of dollar-
loan sinking-funds and a raiding of Com-
monwealth trust-furids. This involved the
reissuing of £45 million of Treasury bills.
In May the States in Loan Council
“voted” £247 million of loan-funds for
the year 1952-53, although only £5O mil-
lion of new loan-money was estimated as
likely to be available. This month they
reduced the “vote” to £225 million. The
Commonwealth offered to augment the
estimated £5O million by providing, at
the taxpayers’ expense, £125 million, plus
another £lO million by some astute
jugglery with accounts. The States with
unabashed irresponsibility insisted on an-
other £4O million. This the Common-
wealth refused.
The public should by now be able to
descry the disaster from which the Com-
monwealth Government is trying to save
them. They should have had their eyes
opened, too, to the causes of the trouble.
Every argument used by Mr. Cahill to
emphasise the bankruptcy of State
finances is telling evidence against
the 40-hour week and the basic-
wage structure. Together these have
made it impossible for the railways to
support running expenses, and the mount-
ing burden of their losses is passed in
manifold guise in costs throughout the
community.
Mr, Cahill says he “cannot control
State expenditure.” Five years ago his
predecessor lightheartedly set the N.S.W.
railways on the road to financial perdition
by legislating for a 40-hour week. He
boasted that the cost would be a fleabite.
If Mr. Cahill sincerely wants to bring his
railway deficits under control, it is open
to him on that precedent to legislate for
44-hours again.
Presidential Preselection.
The proceedings of the Republican con-
vention in Chicago prior to the selection
of General Eisenhower as the party’s
Presidential candidate, with its manoeuvres
and ballyhoo, were bewildering to the
outside world, which takes its politics
seriously, and jam to Moscow, which has
been using them to point out the weak-
nesses of Western systems of government
and the superiority of dictatorships,
Moscow does not understand levity.
Certainly no onlooker from Mars
would believe that the goings-on were in
the greatest country—economically—in
a world in which the preliminaries of a
global war seem to be in progress. The
riotous cheering and theatrical display, the
painted pates of leading delegates, so
treated that they may not shine on tele-
vision screens, and all the rest of the
happy flummery are apt to engender in
the average non-American a certain
amount of pained bewilderment. But
those outside America are concerned
mainly with U.S. foreign policy. How
the United States manages its elections
and whom it elects is its own business.
The Republican programme in the past,
as at present, has always put Europe low
down in consideration, and paid more
attention to the strengthening of its own
continent’s control over South America
and the East. Its conceptions of world
politics have usually had a backwoods
flavor designed to please the middle-
western vote. But world events in the
past few years have forced its thought
out of routine channels, and it has been
at times difficult to distinguish Republican
thought from Democratic thought. Indeed,
President Truman’s chief handy-man and
negotiator in the matter of peace-treaties
has been Mr. Foster Dulles, one of the
framers of Republican foreign policy,
though the Truman operation of his
policy when framed has been carried out
along traditionally Democrat lines.
There is certainly nothing “Republican”
about some of the people who administer
it; for Democrat association with intel-
lectual “Liberals” has produced in a poli-
ticalised civil service much the same con-
dition as exists in Canberra. At
frequent intervals “Liberals” turn up in
high places in the public offces and, when
closely examined, are found to be Com-
munists. In the same way, while the
Democrats have always demanded the
vote of labor on the ground of their de-
mocracy, the United States has gone much
"further towards becoming a dictatorship
under Roosevelt and Truman than under
Hoover, the last Republican President.
Its departments have expanded in a
truly Socialistic manner. Its attitude to the
world outside has sometimes been dicta-
torial, and has caused resentment. It has
received some sharp warnings from
Canada that it cannot at any rate control
Canadian policy, and gentle hints from
others, both inside and outside, that as a
means of winning friends and influencing
world policy, collective dealing, upon
which it pinned its faith in international
politics, and generous spending abroad on
the rehabilitation of war-torn countries
are no substitute for real basic strength.
But the salient fact is that whenever the
Government has reached a certain stage
of dictatorship public opinion and the
Supreme Court have brought it back to
earth.
In all countries outside totalitarian
countries criticism of the Government is
normal; but, except in British-speaking
nations, of which the United States is
one, it is rarely that critics express a view-
point which is echoed in outside countries
with approval.
An apt illustration of the sharing of
this habit of independent expression was
heard in General MacArthur’s speech
opening the convention in Chicago:
We practically inyited Soviet dominance
over the free peoples of Eastern Europe
through the strategic dispositions of Soviet
forces at the close of the war. We
deliberately withdrew our armies from thou-
sands of square miles of hard-won territory,
permitting the advance of Soviet forces to
the West to plant the red flag of Com-
munism on the ramparts of Berlin, Vienna
and Prague, capitals of Western civilisation.
While appreciating the immense good-
will of the United States people and their
real and generous anxiety to restore the
battered world after World War 11,
many critics outside the United States
would not be disposed to disagree
with General MacArthur in this
summary, or in his view that “We
[U.S.] have taken sides in international
disputes which were fundamentally none
of our affair and have endeavored to im-
pose our will on other nations’ purely
domestic problems in an imperialistic
manner.” But there are also few coun-
tries in which this thought could be so
frankly and safely uttered about the
nation’s policy during an election
campaign.
There will be agreement, tofif, on the
General’s viewpoint that the conduct of
the Korean campaign has been “in-
decisive,” and that, despite President
Truman’s continuous stream of warnings
of the dangers of the world situation, the
attack on South Korea proved the United
States, whose forces were supposedly the
hard core of Western security, to be
militarily “at possibly the lowest relatively
in history.” At the same time, his re-
marks on the reluctance of some European
Powers to do their fair share in Western
defence, an attitude which was to some
degree developed by the paternalism of
Washington, where it seemed for a time
to be accepted that dollars could buy
American domination abroad, will be
taken in a proper spirit.
Australia owes the Americans a deep
debt of gratitude and will never forget it,
Australian foreign policy favors and does
not fear the strongest possible United
States, We need only become afraid of
it and become concerned with whether
Republicans or Democrats are in power
when two factors operate—when we
ourselves cease to be masters of our own
policy and fate and allow the United
States to run us and the world ; and when
the United States changes its nature,
ceases to manage its Presidential cam-
paigns in a carnival spirit of good, clean,
noisy fun and adopts the Russian practice
of shooting people like General Mac-
Arthur who dare to indulge in trenchant
criticism of a current Government’s
policies and mistakes.
Newcastle Smiled.
“Abdul Assiz”: At the end of June
Newcastle was justified in smiling, for
three whole months had passed in which
no case of a vessel running aground had
been reported to the authorities. There
had been a few near-shaves, it is true,
and some cargo ships had helped the
dredges by bulldozing the bottoms of the
swinging basins. These, however, were
merely incidents, and did not call for
reports to or from Admiral McGirr.
For this happy state of affairs the
credit belongs chiefly to the Dutch dredge
H.A.M. 301, which has accounted for
about 40 p.c. of the silt removed, the
remaining 60 p.c. having been handled
by the eight Government-owned dredges.
Newcastle’s smile became rather wry,
therefore, when a spokesman for the
harbor authorities, over the national
broadcasting network on July 5, damned
with faint praise the work of H.A.M. 301
by stating that the reason for the em-
ployment of this overseas dredge was
that the harbor-clearance scheme was
working against time. He forgot to
mention that the signing of the Dutch
contract had been on the insistence of
the Newcastle Chamber of Commerce,
backed by the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion —a combination so unusual that the
urgency of the need could not be
questioned. The spokesman added, quite
gratuitously, that the design of H.A.M.
301 was 40 years old, omitting to state,
however, that even then it had been
adopted by its makers in preference to
the still-older one used for the Richard
Vowell, the State-owned dredge.
That the combined weekly removal of
silt is still well below the 200,000-ton
mark is due to delay in completing the
retaining-wall which would allow the silt
to be utilised in the reclamation of land
at Moscheto, Dempsey, Ash and Walsh
Islands. This tardiness has not only in-
flated the dredging costs and reduced pro-
gress, but it has denied Newcastle the
opportunity of attracting new commercial
enterprises.
Another shock for the port was the an-
nouncement by National Development
Minister Spooner at Canberra, also on
July 5, that the search for new opencut
coal will be trebled in the next three
months with the object of raising the
output of quarried coal to 5,000,000 tons
a year, and that this search will be
centred in the Newcastle district, close to
market and port. Unfortunately, it is
apparent to those connected with coal-
production and manufacturing interests
that the present figure of 3,000,000 tons
a year more than satisfies the demand
for this high-ash and low-grade fuel any-
where near the coalfields. As to distant
markets, the railways have proved them-
selves incapable of moving the coal as
'quickly as it is quarried.
This inability is blamed on shortage
of trucks, not so much because of small-
ness of number but to the failure of the
marshalling-yards to move them expedi-
ditiously. In turn, the slowness of the
marshalling-yard employees is attributed
to the forms they are forced to fill in.
These are so numerous and so complicated
that there is little time left for sorting
out trucks and making up trains.
Be that as it may, the ominous threat
that the Miners’ Federation will demand a
seven-hour day, if the coal stocks at grass
and on the Newcastle wharves continue
to increase, is a very real one. The
obvious remedy is for the Joint Coal
Board to temper its yearning after statis-
tical records and to concentrate its
energies in winning good underground
coal, leaving the easily-worked but poor
opencast material as a reserve for times
of national emergency.


PLAIN ENGLISH
We Like "Ike."
'The Western world will welcome the
choice of General Eisenhower as the
(Republican candidate for the American
presidency even if he doesn’t win. The
Americans are usually shy, whatever party
they belong to, about choosing dis-
tinguished military men for their highest
office. In the past officers of international
reputation have not made the most
successful Presidents. The memory of
C3rant still lingers.
The choice of General Eisenhower, as
Republican nominee, however, assurers
that there will be unity of thought on
both sides of the campaign so far as the
main issues of peace and war are con-
cerned. The General knows international
politics from first-hand practical experi-
ence in a way that no President yet has
known before election. He knows Europe
strategically as few Europeans know it,
and he was stationed so long in the
Philippines that he understands this side
of the Pacific. He is unique in that ae
is the only man ever nominated to the
Presidency who has had the command of
European, and particularly British, troops,
and of great armies, or, for that matter,
of U.S. armies overseas.
There are different views about his
military capacity in different quarters, but
there are no two views about his political
ability. No man has ever had a mors
difficult task than was set him in World
War 11. An unknown officer who had
held only battalion-commander’s rank
almost up to the. time of Pearl Harbor,
he was called on within a couple of years
to overall command of the greatest armies
seen in any war outside the First World
War, led in the field by seasoned generals
with international reputations and a vast
fighting experience.
He did this with a minimum of friction.
He survived the chess-game of high
politics between the Allies. He came
through the ordeal of planning strategy
for the advance into Germany without
making any enemies in high places except,
possibly, in his own country. He is
regarded and treated in the United King-
dom as if he were a British general. The
British have given him a home on their
soil. He is Mr. Churchill’s personal
friend. And it is an amazing tribute
to his character that with these known
connections a party like the Republicans,
which has always been isolationist and
particularly wary of British connections
since the days of the Civil War, should
welcome him as its representative.
While it is the affair of the United
States whom it elects as President, and
General Eisenhower’s election is far from
a reality, since, to win, he will have to
make himself persona grata with a large
swinging vote and a lot of other elements
which are remarkably sensitive to organ-
isation and propaganda, there are millions
of people abroad in whom his name pro-
duces a friendly reaction.
The slogan “I like Ike” is not the
monopoly of United States Presidential
electors,
Korea.
“Ek Bum’s” review:
The “peace talks” in Korea having entered
their second year, fighting flared up. On July 2
the First Australian Battalion, which reached
the war area on April 3, was in action for the
first time. It appears to have been a mass
sortie by a company, and there were several
casualties. The name of Major David
Thompson, of Sale (Vic.), was mentioned as
the leader. But a few days afterwards Mr.
Trygve Lie, general secretary of the United
Nations, said that he “guessed” that the Korean
truce would be signed at the end of July or the
beginning of August. He said that there was a
“better will” on both sides towards an armistice.
There has been an eager will on the United
Nations side from the beginning, but since Mr.
Trygve Lie is only general secretary of U.N.O.
perhaps nobody had taken the trouble to tell
him about it. Or does he wish to convey to
the other side that his negotiators have not
been in earnest? It seems nearly time that
something was done about Mr. Lie.
There has been no sign of a better will to
peace on the North Korean side. At the con-
ference last week their theme was prisoners-of-
war. They are itching to get their hands on
the thousands of their unfortunate conscripts
who are begging their captors at Koje not to
hand them back to certain death or slavery.
There is little sign, either, of faith on the
U.N O. side that the armistice negotiations will
come to anything. General Lawton Collins,
United States Chief of Staff, last week made a
detailed inspection of the U.N.O. positions, and
there seems to have been considerable small
fighting, chiefly on main routes to the south.
The Communists. appear to be testing the
line by raids, with a little reciprocal activity
of the same sort by U.N.O. forces, but informa-
tion passed out is meagre. One attack try 400
Communists, launched after a “shattering”
artillery barrage, was reported in the Pukhan
Valley. But one is never sure whether these
sallies are not as much the product of the
reporters’ boredom as of enemy or U.N.O.
action.
In the air, Thunderjets during the week
bombed Changjin, one of the Yalu power-
stations which a few days previously the U.S.
Air Forces put “totally out of action,” accord-
ing to the communiques. The Communists had
been caught “making repairs to the generators.
This and other similar affairs were a prelude
to the “biggest raid of the war” by 900 air-
craft which at the weekend attacked military an
industrial targets in 1850 sorties, one of the main
objectives being the North Korean capital o
Pyong Yang, which was “turned into flame
and rubble.” It wasn’t much better than that
before by all accounts. Every bomber-fighter
squadron available on land, plus those iiom
H.M.S. Ocean and the American earners Bon
Homme Richard and Princeton, had a share in
the business. On the statistics of ammunition
it was not so big as it sounded —in Pyong
Yang 240 tons of bombs and 600 rockets were
used —mere peanuts by last war’s standards.
At the same time there was more sortie fighting,
both in east and west, on the initiative of one
side or the other. , ...
On July 13 Peking Radio announced that
eight U.N.O. fighters had attacked Antung,
the North Korean armies’ base city inside
Manchuria, and a neighboring village, killing
two and wounding 47. Chou En-lai, the
Chinese Premier, commented that “this act,
together with raids on the Yalu power-stations,
shows the intention of U.N. to break the peace
talks and enlarge the ambit of their attacks on
People’s Asia.” This was bracketed in Com-
munist propaganda with a deterrent suggestion
that during the bombing of Pyong Yang 13
Allied p.-0.-w. were killed and 72 wounded.
With the imposition of new stringency in the
application of security measures in Western
Europe and the disturbances in Rumania, which
the Russians appear to have been forced to
take over bodily and place under control ot
Lavrentiev, one -of their own men, conditions
generally are not improving.
The Cahill-eidoscope.
What has happened to N.S.W.’s Premier
Cahill?
Only a fortnight or ,so ago he was
preparing to advance on Commonwealth
Ministers at the Loan Council breathing
brimstone and ballyhoo. The money for
loan-works offering under Common-
wealth Government underwriting —about
three times as much as he and all other
Loan Council members estimated as pos-
sible to be raised from public loans —was,
said Mr. Cahill, not enough. He flatly
refused to consider any priorities in his
overall programme of expenditure.
The electors (he said) supported the
State Government’s full works programme
at both Liverpool and Ashfield by-elections.
The Commonwealth must have regard for
this backing. If it won’t listen, we will
have to consider holding a State elec-
tion ....
We put our proposals clearly to the
people of Ashfield. They accepted them. I
hope the Federal Government will appre-
ciate the significance.... and make more
money available.
In point of fact, Liverpool was always
a “Labor” seat, and Ashfield was won on
a scurrilous scare campaign and a lot of
political chicanery which an active Liberal
organisation in the electorate would have
chased off the map as soon as it showed
up.
But now Mr. Cahill ppses as a different
man. His threats availed him nothing
at the Loan Council board ; yet on return
he expressed himself as reconciled to the
facts. He discovered that, in spite of all
he said before, “N.S.W. is more for-
tunately situated than certain other
States,” and “while we will have to cut
works.... the effects will not be felt for
some time.”
We are not going to lament or squeal.
This is no time for recrimination It is
our duty to fall into line and use every
effort to stabilise the position... .All
Ministers realise that -we are an integral
part of the Government of Australia.
He even said his Cabinet would have to
decide “which works should proceed,
which slowed down and which held in
abeyance.” In short, a system of priori-
ties.
How come this reversal of form? Of
course Ashfield had been won —on the
false cry that it would shake the pagoda-
tree as nothing else could. And, of
course, having so demonstrably made a
fool of Ashfield, Mr. Cahill is hardly in
good case to try the same tactics in a
premature general election.
But something more than satisfaction
with bringing home the Ashfield bacon
is wanting to explain Mr. Cahill’s new
stand. The sobering influence seems to
be that before this financial year is out
he faces having to raise, and be respon-
sible to the electors for, his own taxation.
That puts a damper on Mr. Cahill’s
mooted early elections, and the very pros-
pect of the changed scene induces him to
announce, good and early, that when he
returns to the operation of State taxing
rights he “cannot imagine increased taxa-
tion.”
Ashfield appears to have done a lot of
good in a way that nobody concerned
ever contemplated. The Cahills won’t be
able —unless the Liberal party gives up
the ghost entirely—to fight another by-
election in that fashion.
Taxation and New States.
Advocates of new States in North
Queensland, northern N.S.W. and the
Riverina should welcome the prospect of
the existing States being given back the
power to impose and collect income tax.
For people in those areas, revival of
State taxation means finding huge sums
to bolster up big-city Governments in
Sydney and Brisbane.
Under uniform taxation these Govern-
ments got a more or less fixed reimburse-
ment from Commonwealth income-tax
collections. If they wanted more money
to dig underground railways, electrify
suburban lines, buy coalmines, run
suburban bus services, meet railway losses,
take over private industries like electric-
generating and brickmaking, and so
forth, they had to get it through the Loan
Council or from Commonwealth grants.
Given back the right to impose their
own taxation means the State will be
able, up to a point anyhow, to slug their
own citizens. Naturally, no one State is
likely to impose taxation severe enough
to cause a flight of capital and industry
to another State ; all the same, these Stale
Governments are remarkably quick to
follow one another’s lead, as has been
demonstrated with price - controls,
increased freights and fares, transport-
strangulation policies and other things.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail,” noting that
Premier Gair wants State taxation back,
remarks that “Queensland more than any
other State has need to worry over what
might be imposed on it in an
unscrambling of uniform taxation,” partly
because it “was the most severely-taxed
State when all taxation for State purposes
was levied and collected by its own Gov-
eminent” and partly because it has “vast
but sparsely-populated rural areas more
than a thousand miles from the State
capital.”
Therein lies the lead for new-Staters.
Even under uniform taxation a dispro-
portionately large amount of the sums
N.S.W. and Queensland got from the
taxation, loans and grants pool was spent
on metropolitan affairs. And in both
States the “Labor” Governments have so
rearranged Parliamentary seats that rural
areas have lost their already weak repre-
sentation.
Given back taxing-powers it is certain
that areas like North Queensland,
northern N.S.W. and Riverina will more
than ever pay out large annual sums in
taxation mainly for the benefit of cities
hundreds of miles away —cities in which
the voice of the country is never heard
and where the average resident hasn’t a
clue to the political neglect of country
areas, even though that neglect shrieks at
him in the price of food and recurring
scarcities.
The more it is thought about the more
evident it becomes that, handled properly,
the end of uniform taxation could give the
new - States movements their biggest
boost.
The Pound Buys More.
Sydney people must be strangely blind
and deaf to what goes on if they allow
the current screaming from wounded
blackmarketers, Pink professors, Premiers
of the Cahill kidney and pro-inflationists
in general to blind them to facts. And
among positive facts is a plentiful supply
of certain foodstuffs, clothing and house-
hold linen now being offered at prices
which, a few. months ago, would have
been regarded as a hoax.
Take these extracts from advertisements
in one issue of a Sydney afternoon paper
last week:
Ten thousand shirts at 255. each (six
months ago they’d have been 355.).
Beady-made worsted men’s suits, £l3
(advertiser says they were bought from a
mill at below cost). Single sheets, 365. 6d.
a pair; double sheets, 755. Pillow-cases,
2s. lid. Tea-towels, 3s. 9d. Tinned foods,
old price In parenthesis: Plum-puddings,
Is. ll£d. (2s. lOd.); 4oz. baked beans or
spaghetti, 7Sd. (9d.); peas. Is. lid. (Is.
4id.); condensed milk, Is. 4id. (Is. 7id.);
apricots, 2s. 6d. (2s. Hid.); pears, 2s, lid.
(3s. Bd.).
These are not junk-shop prices, but
those advertised by well-known retail
stores. They are a tiny sample of adver-
tisements appearing every day in Sydney,
generally recognised as the dearest city in
Australia, and in Sydney “cut-price wars”
have broken out between butchers,
grocers and smallgoods shops on fixed-
price foodstuffs. Indeed, it is fairly safe
to say that, in Sydney, the only food-
stuffs which are not more plentiful and
cheaper are those under official control —
eggs, milk, butter, fish, bread.
In other things—bricks, timber, furni-
ture, household appliances —supplies are
heavy and prices either stable or falling.
It is evident that the seller’s market has
become a buyer’s market, and this is the
result of increased production (in one
shirt-factory alone a 15 p.c. reduction
of staff resulted in a 20 p.c. increase in
production), and keen competition among
manufacturers and retailers.
No one welcomes “financial stringency,”
but if it is the only thing that will spur
production along we must have it. Indus-
trial morale and business efficiency were
previously going to the dogs.
A Dean, Some Germs
and a Veto.
That eminent scientist Dr. Hewlett
Johnson, the Red Dean of Canterbury,
back in London from Peking, Moscow
and Prague, told a Press conference that
he had “examined an exhaustive and
scientific assemblage of facts” on germ-
warfare and had talked with those respon-
sible for the exhibition, who were men
of world-wide reputation, many trained in
England and America. “No one doubts
their objectivity, honesty and scientific
equipment.”
No one? Possibly the Dean means no
one in Peking, Moscow or Prague. Else-
where there seems to be a considerable
element of doubt in the bona tides of the
“bacteriologists, scientists and physicians.”
New York “Times” asked a panel of
scientists to evaluate the evidence of a
page of photographs published in the
Peking “Peoples’ Daily” —similar pictures
have appeared in the Communist
“Tribune” in Sydney —and the American
magazine “Life” recently published the
photographs and the opinions of experts.
Dr. Rene Dubois, a bacteriologist of
the Rockefeller Institute, examined photo-
micrographs labelled “meningitis double-
globular bacteria” and “consecutive
globular bacteria.” Of the former he
reported that “meningitis germs are not
this shape” ; of the latter, that it looked
like harmless Micrococcus tetragenus,
“found in everyone’s throat.” Dr. C. H.
Curran, curator of insects and spiders at
the American Museum of Natural His-
tory, also examined the “evidence.” One
of the “disease-ladep insects” he identified
as a springtail, common in Europe and
Asia. He said: “They feed chiefly on
decaying vegetation. Because of their
habits they are utterly incapable of carry-
ing disease.” Another was a mosquito
from which the wings had been removed.
It belonged to the genus Aides, “but not
to any group that is capable of carrying
disease.” The germ-bombs depicted in
the propaganda are identical with types
used by U.N. forces for dropping leaflets.
Although the Red Dean found the
evidence of germ-warfare “irrefutable,”
he had to admit that he had not seen
any alleged victims of the germs, and
when he was asked what types of disease
were being spread in this way he at first
said he did not know, and then: “Oh,
yes. Typhoid and paratyphoid.” Even
a layman or a dean should know that
typhoid is not spread by mosquitoes and
springtails, and that China has no need
to depend on American planes for its
supply of bad drains —the primary
source of typhoid.
Communists have made much of the
fact that Professor Joliot-Curie accepted
the germ-war propaganda as fact. They
emphasise that the professor is a Nobel-
prize winner.
If the possession of a Nobel award
qualifies the holder to judge the truth or
otherwise of the Peking story the matter
really resolves itself into one of numbers.
Two months ago nine Nobel-prize
winners (seven in medicine, one in
physics and one in chemistry) wrote to
Professor Joliot-Curie accusing him of
accepting “unverified Communist
charges”- and asking him to withdraw his
signature and join with other scientists
in demanding an investigation by the
International Red Cross or other recog-
nised impartial body. The professor did
not join them.
Only a fortnight ago the Security
Council passed a resolution urging an
investigation by the Red Cross. The
Kremlin’s Mr. Malik vetoed it. His veto
gave unintentional truth to a heading
used with a front-page story in Sydney
“Tribune” at the time fellow-traveller
Burton demanded an investigation into
the germ-story. It was “Only Guilty
Fear Germ War Probe.”
Communist "Innocence. 11
The report of Sir Macfarlane Burnet, one
of Australia’s most distinguished bacteri-
ologists, discussing the germ-warfare
charges of the Chinese Government
against the United States, proves both
the silliness of the accusations and the
innocence of scientists, even on the top-
rung of the ladder. Dr. Burnet laughs
at the charges, which he deals with in
detail, showing the absurdity of the
allegations.
He thinks them “an extraordinary mix-
ture of naivete, amateurish bacteriology
and credulousness,” but says “there
seems to be very little effort to produce
false evidence....” He says the whole
yarn may be classed like the tales about
flying saucers as “a manifestation of self-
deception. .. .1 think the Chinese investi-
gators were honest but incapable of free-
ing their minds from the conviction that
(Continued on next page.)


Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
' ■
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 12i% Sales Tax
liiwu
fdg
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
61 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
a*
m
CM.
was a monarch most droll,
And his frolics were fast and free;
The goal of his soul was a flowing
bowl,
Which he’d share with his fiddlers
three.
A gallon of punch with his dinner
or lunch
Was the only draught he’d endure;
But if sore throat should hap, the
cunning old chap
Toole
Woods’ Great Peppermint Care.
they would find evidence of American
guilt wherever they looked.”
Dr. Burnet has evidently had very little
experience of Communists. Charges of
bacteriological warfare were first made
by Stalin against Ukrainian scientists in
1933 or thereabouts (p. 435, Foundations
of Leninism ), and they were about as
convincing as those made in Korea.
They were repeated in the World War II
against the Germans. Japanese were
tried in Siberia for experimenting in the
subject with Russians as guinea-pigs, and
an expensive book was issued and given
world circulation reporting these “trials”
as a preliminary to the launching of the
present charges.
It is plain that Dr. Burnet may be
a great scientist, but he has yet to learn
the facts of Communist life. Yarns like
the bacterial warfare one are not framed
to impress scientists. They are built
round familiar insects to panic simple
Asiatics, who encounter those insects
every day, and mugs like Dr. Burton and
the Dean of Canterbury. ,
POLITICAL POINTS
In the end the Republicans decided they
did like Ike.-
When he came away from the Loan
Council without the inflationary paper he
had been seeking, N. S. Wales Premier
Cahill announced that he was at a loss
for words. It was apparently only a
figure of speech; he turned plenty of
reckless words loose almost immediately,
but they were designed to confuse and
inflame the mob rather than to suggest a
sane way out of his financial crisis. A
sample:
To say that suffering and hardship should
be imposed on the people because of arti-
ficial financial considerations and so that
the Commonwealth may balance its Budget
shows that those who are guiding our affairs
have entirely lost touch with the common
people.
First there is the implication that the
Federal Government made the state-
ment or proposition quoted—which Cahill
knows is untrue. The piece about
artificial financial considerations shows
either that Cahill can’t recognise harsh
economic facts when they stare him in
the face or that he is entirely reckless of
what happens to the national economy.
McGrrrrr’s successor as boss of the pro-
fligate State also pulled out the old
“Labor”-Communist gag about there
being plenty of money available for war
but none for peace. The last war was
financed partly by going without things
—public works, for instance and
accepting a temporary lowering of
living standards ; the balance of the cost
is still being paid in interest and through
an inflated currency. The war was costly,
but there was an end to it. Cahill’s
dreams of an easy-money economy don't
envisage any going-without or any lower-
ing of living standards. We’re to have
our cake and eat it, too —and we’re to
keep on doing both for ever. A delightful
dream—for children or junior economists
—but hardly worthy of a State Treasurer.
Not even an N. S. Wales Treasurer.
Menzies should call the bluff of the
calamity-howlers by challenging- the
Premiers to send him complete lists of
every man retrenched from public works
through lack of loan-money, the Com-
monwealth Employment Service to do its
best to place the men in other jobs, if they
have not already found work themselves.
This would systematise the whole busi-
ness and put a stop to vague talk un-
supported by figures.
After thinking things over for a day or
so Cahill apparently decided that ruin
was not quite so close as he had
prophesied. He said his Government was
“not going to lament or squeal. This is
no time for recrimination.. . .We will
‘give it a go’.” This invites the com-
ment that Joe didn’t have a squeal left
and that he used up all his recriminations
at Ashfield. Still, the determination to
“give it a go” is to be commended.
So is his stated realisation that
we are an integral part of the Government
of Australia, and the decisions of that
Government, however unpalatable they may
be to us, must be strictly observed.
And his undertaking to “try, and try
very hard, to make ends meet,”
Dr. Burton, denied the use of Adelaide
Town Hall, booked the old Tivoli Theatre
for a public meeting on his germ-warfare
turn. It’s pleasing to see vaudeville on
again in Adelaide.
Minister for Labor Holt has expressed
the hope that Australian trade-unions
will one day follow the example of
American unions in putting pressure on
inefficient employers to improve their
methods. Before that happens the unions
will have to get different officials. Today
those in control of most Australian trade-
unions don’t care a rap for efficiency in
industry. Many of them prefer the
inefficient employer because, with his
easygoing ways, he is likely to employ
more hands to do a specific amount of
work and to expect less service from
them.
Holt’s suggestion brought this answer
from C. S. Bertram, president of South
Australian Chamber of Manufactures:
For several years management in industry
has been assailed by controllers, planners,
economic theorists and occasionally by
Ministers of the Crown. Now it is being
told it should be submitted to pressure by
trade-unions on methods to be adopted to
perform its functions more efficiently.
Although the Pin-headed Chinaman,
the Tailed Man from Borneo and the
World’s Fattest Married Couple may
make a reappearance at Melbourne Royal
Show this year, it is not true that among
the hundreds of applications that have
poured in for sideshow permits is one
from the Siamese twins, Cain-McDonald.
London newspapers are conjecturing
on what would happen if a foreign vessel
sailed into the prohibited areas during
the atomic weapon tests in the Monte
Bello islands ; they maintain that Aus-
tralian laws would not apply to ships out-
side the three-mile limit and that foreign
ships could go into the danger zone at
their own risk. Well, there seems no
reason why naval vessels in the vicinity
shouldn’t carry out gunnery practice at
the same time as the atomic tests.
This year’s prize for a boner goes (o
a Canberra typist who transcribed the
shorthand symbol for “remnants” so that
a handout issued to the Press by
Minister Casey contained the passage:
“other means that are possible to wipe
out the reminence of the rabbit popula-
tion ”
With N. S. Wales coal production for
the six months to June 30 nearly
1,250,000 tons up on the same period of
1951, and with 530,000 tons lying in
dumps on the western coalfield, there
seemed at first sight to be something in
Transport Minister Sheahan’s protest
against the continuance of Victorian
imports of Indian coal. There is an
explanation, however. The Indian cargoes
are of gas coal; N. S. Wales production
of this variety falls short of Australia's
requirements by 15,000 tons a week.
Once again the Red-controlled wharfies
have caved in when confronted with
realistic measures. Their ban on over-
time began on April 9. After it had
been in force 11 weeks the Arbitration
Court granted the Stevedoring Industry
Commission permission to suspend the
payment of attendance-money. After that
the ban lasted only two weeks. The
attendance-money suspension coincided
with a falling-off in arrivals of overseas
ships—Sydney wharves last week experi-
enced their slackest time for years —and
the chairman of the 5.1.8. estimated that
watersiders had lost £25,000 in attendance-
money and from £lO,OOO to £15,000 in
annual-leave credits. Overtime was re-
sumed last Thursday.
According to the Victorian Minister for
Transport, whose railways have lost the
usual millions this year, “Any attempt to
measure the cost of a railway-line on a
theoretical basis would lead to complex
algebraical and arithmetical problems.”
Well, even that would be better than
what Government-run railways have led
to.
In the Industrial Appeals Court in
Melbourne a master-builder spoke
gloomily of prospects in the building
industry, saying that the same conditions
that heralded the last depression were
evident now. In explanation he said:
“Normally we have contracts for three
years’ advance work, but now we have
sufficient for only eight months.” What
does he mean by normally? The average
over a lifetime in the industry or of the
abnormal post-war years?
Senator Spooner’s figures on housing
don’t support the theory of an impending
slump in building. He estimates that
77,000 houses were completed in the year
just closed —an improvement of 3500 over
1950-51. The number completed in the
January-June period was slightly lower
than in July-December, but higher than
for the corresponding period of the
previous year when easy credit was still
the order of the day. Spooner reports
“unmistakable signs that the building
industry is returning to more competitive
conditions.” To some builders, of course,
this is synonymous with depression.
Victoria’s' McDonald is wounded to
the heart because the dollar-loan doesn’t
mean easy money for the States —in par-
ticular, for his own State —“The Prime
Minister has made a condition that we
must find an equivalent in money to buy
the dollars, and as our loan programme
has been so seriously restricted the dollar-
loan is of no use to us.” Mac's only hop©
seems to be to answer the “Mexican
Prisoner” letter.
Another sensible voice rose above the
political babel last week, that of A. H.
Gibson, Federal president of the Institute
of Sales and Business Management:
Australians will have to readjust them-
selves now that Fortune has stopped hand-
ing-out free beer and cakes... .the loudest
complaints are coming from drones who
fattened in seven years of plenty the
public will increasingly demand value for
its money and business will have to re-
organise its forces to cope with the demand.
Isn’t that substantially what Menzies said
his anti-inflation measures would do?
If the Welfare State doesn’t do any-
thing else it certainly breeds optimism as
far as handouts are concerned. The
“British Medical Journal” quotes a letter
a doctor received from one of his
patients;
I am wondering if I can get a pair of
nail-scissors through National Insurance,
as I have lo’st mine. If you would please
send me paper about this I shall be much
obliged. I understood Is. is paid for this.
A student of the London School of
Economics has investigated “a large
branch of the Transport and General
Workers’ Union” and claims that he
found “a branch of 1000 members run
by 25 to 30 members, who conducted the
business, divided the offices between them
and filled in members’ voting-papers for
union elections.” He hasn’t carried his
research far enough to say whether the
T. and G. union got the idea from the
Sydney Ironworkers or vice versa, but he
is satisfied that most of the junta were
Communists. It is rather ironical that the
researcher should be a London School of
Economics man; that institution has
turned out more fellow-travellers than
any other seat of learning outside the
Iron Curtain.
A five-months strike in the metal trades
in West Australia was no nearer settle-
ment when this was printed, and there
was talk of the W.A. Government inviting
Canberra to use the Crimes Act. Affected
employers went further —they’ve issued
claims for damages against the striking
unions, the A.E.U. and the Boilermakers’,
on the grounds of losses suffered by the
unions’ alleged breach of the award. It
need hardly be said that both unions
are Red-controlled.
With municipal rates soaring, it is not
surprising that grumblings are being heard
about the basis on which rates are levied.
In N. S. Wales for about half a century
this basis has been the U.C.V., the argu-
ment being that this system discourages
land speculators and encourages develop-
ment of a district. “The Shire and Muni-
cipal Record” points out that the method
is now often inequitable:
Two adjoining allotments may each be
valued at, say, £5OO, and on one is a private
dwelling and on the other a block of eight
flats which may return the owners £2OOO a
year in rent. Each ratepayer is levied for
the same rates, but the occupiers of the
flats use eight times the community ameni-
ties as does the humble dweller next door.
A good point, but the real issue is
whether, in view of the changed nature of
municipal functions and the insistence on
compulsory universal suffrage in council-
elections, it is any longer just and fair
that property-owners should be billed for
the whole cost of local-government.
Rhymed eruption from a man who
voted Labor as far back as 1903:
How timely it would be, how fitting seem,
If so-called “Labor” Treasurers, who scream
For loans, despite the market’s icy “nay,”
Insisting that the Commonwealth obey
Their orders, though the country go to pot—
if all these merchants of pernicious rot,
Of squandermania, squealing, subterfuge,
Had ghosts to face, like Ebenezer Scrooge!
They would have cause for shame, as well as
fear,
If Andrew Fisher’s phantom should appear.
To Labor men of Andy Fisher’s time,
To borrow was a near approach to crime.
A country free of debt was their ideal;
And their convictions, like themselves, were real.
Once Fisher said, in rasping. Scottish tones,
He’d hate to see our Union floating loans;
And he was P.M. then. In truth, a ghost
That Queensland’s Gair would be afraid of
most.
And what of those who in the ’nineties wrought
The “platform,” and who on and for it fought?
Who fashioned that inspiriting “objective”
And did their all to make the thing effective?
Who saw (and helped) in process of creation
A strong, “enlightened,” “self-reliant” nation?
Despised, profaned, by Cahill and his crew,
The Fathers gave the quoted words their due.
Their spirits, if they paced remembered lands,
Their heads they well might carry in their
hands;
For rather than be parties to the shame
Of what’s been said and done in Labor’s name —
Its enmity to industry and thrift;
Its hours-reducing infamy, a gift
To- workers less than parasites and weeds;
The gamblers it encourages and bleeds;
The strikes it never stopped or hindered yet;
Its transport mess; its all-engulfing debt;
Its sacrifice of everything for votes —
The Fathers would, for sure, have cut their
throats.


OPERATING,
THEATRE
BLOOD
BANK
QfER^TtWq
TH&^CTKE
I ov^^ p '° \
1 \
& \\m&\
OPERATING,
THEATRE
OUR AMAZING ATHLETES
(if Press reports can be relied on).


a/OM
L . \
: ■'
X
***fjV
Business.Rollery.Etc.
A Thousand Millions
In' view of all the economic
changes during the period, the
Commonwealth Treasurer did
well to get within £l6 million
of his estimated Budget surplus
of £114.5 million in the financial
year which ended on June 30.
Except for Customs and excise
revenue, which was up £lO mil-
lion on estimates at £214 mil-
lion (and £49 million above the
1950-51 collections), the main
items of revenue were below
Budget estimates ; sales tax was
outstanding in this respect, being
£21.5 million below forecasts at
£95.5 million. Income-tax re-
ceipts were £l7 million short of
estimates at £537.5 million.
In total, revenue was £39 mil-
lion below estimates at £lOO2
million, and expenditure was
£23 million down at £904 mil-
lion. This was mainly accounted
for by the fact that defence out-
lay (£169.5 million) was £l2 mil-
lion under estimates, and appro-
priations (£171.7 million) to the
National Welfare Fund £l3
million under.
Still, it was a record year of
Government receipts and ex-
penditure. But, apart from de-
fence outgo (which was up £21.5
million on the preceding year),
most of the increase was in
respect of social-security costs
(up £39 million) and payments
to the States (up £33 million at
£l6l million). Commonwealth
losses on its railways, post-
office and broadcasting services
(together, £39.2 million) were
£10.4 million lower, largely be-
cause of increased postal rates
during the year ; but they were
a charge on general revenue
almost equal to the general de-
partmental charge of £42.4 mil-
lion (of which the Treasury
accounted for £7 million and
Civil Aviation £lO million).
By far the biggest charge on
the Commonwealth Government
purse today is in respect of
current defence costs and the
hangover from previous defence
and war efforts in the shape of
interest charges on war debt,
repatriation, war pensions, etc.;
in 1951-52 the total charge was
£275 million, compared with
£278 million in the preceding
year (when the figure was swol-
len by a £30.8 million war-
gratuity payment). But social-
security charges run these costs
a close second (at £171.7 mil-
lion last year).
The surplus of £98.5 million
with which the Commonwealth
Government finished the year
was invested in a special short-
term loan to provide finance for
State works and housing during
last year.
Because of public - loan
failures the Commonwealth, as
underwriter of certain State
Government loan programmes,
found it necessary to arrange
other special subscriptions to
this short-term loan. An amount
of £27 million was found from
the sinking-fund established to
redeem the dollar loan from the
World Bank. (Repayments be-
gin in 1955.) In addition, £34.5
million came from trust-fund
balances. Domestic borrowing
by the States and other loans
brought in £8.6 million. Public
loans yielded only £63.8 million
out of total loan funds raised
amounting to £225.3 million.
The internal finance involved
in the dollar-loan sinking-fund
transaction and the trust-fund
borrowing made it necessary to
reissue £45 million of Treasury
bills, and to this extent the
States’ works programmes were
financed by central-bank credit.
State works, housing and war-
service land-settlement absorbed
all the “special-loan” proceeds.
It is expected that Treasurer
Fadden will bring down his
1952-53 Budget early in August.
Already he has had a battle with
the State Premiers over their
loan demands, but this year the
BMcnul
HALFPRICE
rap
df
pi***’
gdf
fe4
Tj(v\W^*
RMOWt?-
I PKPOf
Wl
"Remember the crowd that stopped to watch the
signwriter ?”
total is limited to £lB5 million,
plus something like £8 million
extra for housing. The Com-
monwealth will guarantee £125
million of this, as against the
£l6O million it had to find last
year.
The coming financial year has
rather mixed prospects. The
stand by the Commonwealth at
the Loan Council meetings and
the offer of the Prime Minister
to return to the States their
taxing-powers make it look as
though a serious view of the
internal economic position is
still taken by Canberra—as on
costs and production figures it
must in all sincerity. Manage-
ment of State undertakings has
to be improved, waste must b
cut out, production of essentia s
must be increased, inflation mus
be fought harder than ever. Th
burden of the 40-hour weec
hangs heavily over the lane -
scape. But so long as the ant-
inflationary fight is fough;
assiduously some help may b
received on the side. Wool price
have taken an upward turn, anc
this may help ease the economi
burden if it does not distrac
attention from the real issue—
the urgent need to increase pro
duction per head and stop th
wage-prices spiral. There may
possibly be, at this stage, rea
sonable ground for some lighten
ing of the tax load on industry
especially in respect of deprecia
tion provisions. But whatever
the Treasurer decides is best for
this economically ailing country
the public will know all abou ;
it much earlier in the financial
year than is usually the case.
The Wool Cheque
Australian wool sold during
the year to June 30 totallec
3,409,312 bales (down 137,883
bales compared with the pre-
ceding season), and 27,138 bales
(up 3437 bales) was shipped
abroad for sale. Total sales in
Australia aggregated £307.8 mil-
lion, compared with £636.3 mil-
lion in the preceding season.
The cheque for last season’s clip
was thus only 48.3 p.c. of the
preceding year’s figure. The
average per bale was £9O ss. 7d.,
compared with £179 7s. 9d. For
greasy wool alone the average
was almost exactly half that of
the 1950-51 season—72.4d. a
pound, against 144.2 d.
In order to keep things in
their proper perspective it is
necessary to go back a few years
so far as wool prices are con-
cerned. Against the 1951-52
price of 72.4 d. for greasy and
the 1950-51 figure of 144.2 d.,
that for 1949-50 was 63.3 d., for
1948-49 48. Id., 1947-48 39.5 d.,
1946-47 24.5 d., and 1943-44
15.7 d.
Last season’s average was
therefore still better than of any
year except that which immedi-
ately preceded it. Since the
close of the season there has
been a strengthening in world
wool prices.
Shares Brighter
There was an almost general
strengthening of prices on the
Stock Exchanges last week.
Some key issues failed to move
with the market, but it has been
second-line stocks which have
suffered greatest market depre-
ciation over the past 12 months,
and it was these which showed
the way in the upward move-
ment last week.
Prominent was Bradford Cot-
ton, the largest textile concern of
its kind in the Commonwealth,
which had buyers at 365. 6d.
after sales a few weeks ago at
30s. 6d. F. J. Walker, which
sold at 14s 6d. at the market’s
lowest this year, went to 18s.
Howard Smith moved up to 325.
after sales as low as 265. 6d.
earlier in the year. Masonite
ords., around 495. a week or so
ago, firmed to 525., notwith-
standing the imminence of a new
issue. William Adams at 51s.
compared with a lowest of 375.
6d.
Felt and Textiles, on the other
hand, was only a shilling above
its year’s lowest price at 275. 6d.
Patons and Baldwins was in-
active at around recent low
levels. British Tobacco, which
has had a poor run from the
prices people in its struggle with
costs, was 3d. above its year’s
lowest at 335. 3d. B.H.P. at
435. 3d. compared with a lowest
of 405., but was little above
quotes of recent weeks.
Among second-line stocks
showing a high yield but little
market interest were Frederic
Ash (425., yield 7.1 p.c. if the
15 p.c. div. is maintained, 6 p.c.
if it falls to 12i p.c.), R. B.
Davies (255., yield 6.4 p.c. if the
8 p.c. is maintained), John Mc-
Grath (6s. 9d., 5.9 p.c.), J. C.
Ludowici (485., 6.2 p.c.), John
Mcllwraith (20s. 6d., 6 p.c.).
The upward movement in
many stocks appeared to have
been generated mainly in Sydney.
It seemed to have its principal
source in the fact that most
income-tax assessments have
now been met, and numerous
forced investment realisations
are off the market. Many stocks
have been far too low in the de-
pressed markets of the last six
months, and it was generally
expected that no real improve-
ment would come until after the
end of the financial year.
The fact that Government-
loan demands have been kept
down to £lBO million, as against
£225 million last year, h
restored some faith in Conso
and the interest rate, and this i
turn has reacted favorably o
div.-paying industrials. Als
financial pressure is easing
many cases as excessive me
chandise stocks are gradual
worked down. There is also
belief that industry will get som
relief from taxation this yea
But, even if it does, the relief :
unlikely to be reflected
dividends.
Papuan Oil Search
“Lemon”: Following the de
cision to abandon Hohoro
Australasian Petroleum an
nounces an intensification of i;
seismic survey programme. Th
determination to expand i
already considerable geophysica
exploration results from discus
sions between the co.’s genera
manager and overseas technica
advisers ; it is obvious that thes
experts consider that the pros
pects of finding commercial o
warrant the further expenditur
of time and money involved.
The attempt by Island Ex
ploration to recover the dril
pipe and tools, firmly embedde
in the Omati bore below 8309 ft
has been abandoned. It is now
proposed to sidetrack thes
“frozen” items—that is, to fore
them to one side of the well
and to continue the drilling oj
the present hole alongside them
from below 8300 ft. The opera
tion will necessitate a high de
gree of skill, but the data already
obtained during the drilling, u
to the present, lead to gooc
hopes of success, and the co.’
drillers have proved themselve
to be quite capable of the diffi
cult work involved.
Drilling was commenced a
Omati towards the end o
November, 1950, and the
especial interest of this loca
tion, particularly from the poin
of view of the regional struc
tural geology, was dealt with in
these columns (B. 6/12/’5O).
Island Exploration also an
nounces a considerable expan
sion of its current seismic sur
vey, and states its intention of
undertaking an airborne mag-
netic reconnaissance over its
permit areas. The emphasis on
geophysical work by both com-
panies indicates that, for the
time being at least, exploration
for oil in Papua, and possible
exploitation, are being confinec
to areas where outcrop evidence
is scarce or absent—that is, to
the west of the Vailala River in
the Gulf Division and to the
Delta and Western Divisions.
Maoriland Share Prices
In a mid-year check-up on
share trends, Maorilanders
found they’d lost more ground
in the first six months of 1952
than in the last half of 1951 and
still hadn’t been able to find a
firm foothold.
Over 12 months, since the big
break in the Australian market
rocked N.Z., too, the average cut
in values wasn’t far short of 20
p.c. Speculators were the
hardest hit, and had almost re-
tired from the field, leaving
genuine investors in possession,
with values attractively shaded
in buyers’ favor. As on the
Australian side, yields are once
again the measuring-rod now
that capital gains are in eclipse.
Internal as well as external
influences have all been pushing
in the same direction, led by
tighter credit and dearer money.
Officially interest rates in Maori-
land are still at the bedrock
levels of the ’forties, but these
have long fallen behind the mar-
ket, where gilts are now showing
a return close to 4 p.c., and all
other rates are up in propor-
tion ; that is, nearly 1 p.c.
Officialdom might have come
into line around Easter but for
the Arbitration Court’s hearing
on the Labor Federation’s
application for a general wage-
rise, which was then pending,
but it couldn’t move until that
issue was settled. (The adult
male rate has now been raised
14s. a week.) The interest
adjustment, when it comes,
won’t have any significant effect,
as the market has anticipated it
and has been .following the
natural course.


FASCINATING FACTS No. 1.
Enriching Mankind in the search for ancient 0i1...
v*3
y
s
S
a 9
w
«?
* V
H
Oil is the, remains of living matter from millions of years ago.
Because it is the remains of life it is amazingly rich in usefulness.
Synthetic rubber, chemicals, plastics, come from oil, as well as
fuel, lubricants iand bitumen.
The search for oil today engages over 100,000 scientists and other
specialists. Many of them are very learned. Many are hardy
explorers. Shell has hundreds of scientific teams in the field,
searching for oil in 22 countries, in all continents, from frozen
wastes to tropical jungles.
sat
ss
ignmn^
T?
r-ass
■
•ss**
As the world grew older, the mountains wore down, sediment
settled on the lowlands and in the swamps and shallows, the
earth’s crust twisted and tilted, and the oil became trapped in the
strangest places sometimes miles under the surface. In the
diagram above for example, the black layers show where the oil
would lie in one typical kind of geological formation.
' -
mwii
n
I / '
lLU
m
I
/
'll///
Thousands of scientific inventions help in reading the secrets of
the deep earth. Photo interpretation of aerial photographs helps
greatly in mapping the general geology of the area.
Indications of rock formations deep below the surface are found
by strange methods involving gravity, magnetism, chemistry, and
underground “reflections” from dynamite explosions, all mea-
sured by wonderfully sensitive instruments.
If the surface indications are hopeful enough, test wells are
drilled.
'i III iwlllll.'
p
r
k
* •:
S
ae^.-r'
.»n,.
The bountiful earth hides some of its
mysteries deeply and the more we unlock
the mysteries, the more bountiful human
life becomes. Mankind now uses almost
twice as much pswer as it did 25 years
ago. Nearly three-quarters of this extra
power has come from oil fields discovered
by exploration.
SHELL
-F»
7i
T
/k
T-
%
Vv*
—Li—l
Very often it costs more than a million pounds to
test a site for oil, only to find in the end ,that if oil
is there it cannot be raised, and all the money is lost.
Only a few organisations are big and willing enough
to take such risks. For nearly 60 years Shell has
been one of the leaders in the complicated,
immensely costly, immensely useful world search
for oiL


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Coongan”: Being no longer qualified
to speak, I can’t say much about Pro-
fessor Copland’s proposal for a tax on
bachelors, but I wonder why he doesn’t
suggest a similar tax on the female of
“I'll have to hang up now, sweetie-pie—the boss is glaring at me.”
the species. Going by the obvious aim
of the ragshop advertisements and by the
fact that bachelors still fork out a fair
wad of their oscar on the skirts, it appears
that single women are even better quali-
fied to pay such a tax. And don’t give
me that nonsense about a woman being
unable to get married unless, or until, a
bloke asks her. Still, it’s a difficult sub-
ject. There are, for instance, two sup-
porters of the proposal who also support
the counter at the local: “My oath,
tax the lucky blankards.” “Yair, and a
rebate for bigamists.” On the other hand
there’s the lad o’ the laneways who lives
near me and frequently complains, “I
do all me dough on her every week, and
her flamin’ husband gets all the tax-
rebates.”
• * * *
“Pip Tok”: Weather and strikes per-
mitting, the new causeway across the
Swan River, linking East Perth with
Victoria Park, will be officially opened in
September. It will replace the old cause-
way, which was begun in 1862 after a
temporary crossing had been washed
away by a flood which drowned two men
and their horses. When that causeway
was formally opened there was an
unrehearsed incident which anticipated
the De Groot interlude at the opening of
the Sydney Harbor Bridge, Just as the
Westralian Governor, Dr. J. S. Hampton,
was about to declare the causeway
opened, one of the men who had worked
on the job, J. S. Maley, galloped across
it. His horse had bolted with him. The
Governor then said “I declare this bridge
opened by J. S. Maley,” and everybody
stood at ease.
* * * *
“Emma”: No wonder New Australians
have difficulty in coping with the
language. My schoolboy son, struggling
with homework concerning 1066 and all
that, remarked that history was “wet.”
Asked what he meant by “wet” he replied
“Oh, you know— dry."
* * * ♦
“Bo”: Alec Templeton, the blind
Welsh-American pianist now giving con-
certs in Sydney, has been demonstrating
an art which must hold the record for
the number of times it has been declared
“lost.” If it isn’t exaqtly lost it has cer-
tainly strayed—for improvisation on a
piano on a concert platform is so rare
that nobody can seem to remember when
the phenomenon was last seen here. The
last of the great improvisors was Brahms.
The art reached its glittering peak with
Handel and Bach, of whom it was said,
cynically but wrongly, that the only two
things they had in common were that
they were born in the same year and
killed by the same English eye-doctor.
Undoubtedly Bach was the greatest im-
provisor known—he was direct successor
to the two great North German masters
of the organ, Jan Adam Reiukin and
Dietrich Buxtehude; the reputation of
Buxtehude was such that Bach, when
18, made a 200-mile journey on
foot in mid-winter to hear him play.
It was Reinkin, then aged 97, who,
on hearing Bach improvise for half an
hour on a theme, embraced him and de-
clared “I thought this art was dead ; I
see it still lives in you”—a cry that has
echoed down the centuries. Bach’s mara-
thon feats seem all the more astonishing
when it is considered that he did it at
lightning speed on an organ the crude,
stiff actions of which would break the
hearts, hands and feet of organists used
to smooth electrical actions. In 1717
Bach came to the court at Dresden
when J. L. Marchand, a celebrated
French organist, was visiting there,
Bach’s admirers challenged the French-
man to a contest. Marchand agreed.
Bach turned up, but his rival didn’t —he
was on his way back to Versailles, the
assumption being that he’d surreptitiously
heard Bach at practice and realised how
hopeless was his chance.
* * * *
“Metax”: Reported agitation for a
revision of nursery-rhymes to encourage
a kinder spirit towards animals moves me
to suggest another adjustment. I feel
guilty every time I read my daughter to
sleep with inaccuracies such as;
Hot-cross buns! Hot-cross buns!
One a penny, two a penny,
Hot-cross buns!
And when I get to the page where Simple
Simon, having asked the Pieman to let
him taste his ware, gets the reply “Show
me first your penny” I feel that even
“STEAK, you call it!”
Simon would be aware that you can’t get
a pie anywhere nowadays under seven-
pence. A panel of economists should be
appointed to inquire into the making of
amendments that will give a more realistic
picture.
“Chlora Form”: One southern
columnist mentions the suburban gentle-
man’s shock to note this on his grocery
bill: “Sixpenn’th of hundreds and thou-
sands, 7d.” That made me sigh for the
good old days when the weekly order —
always called for and delivered—would
include a bag'of assorted lollies that didn’t
go down on the account. In our river-
town the kids used to sing a little ditty
immortalising the grocer’s friendly bribe:
The grocery-man will come today, come
today;
The grocery-man will come today.
Hooray, hooray, hooray!
And he will bring us things to chew, things
to chew.
And he will bring us things to chew,
Hooroo, hooroo, hooroo!
Additional modern verse (sung a la
Johnnie Ray, with tears):
But that was many long years ago (sob),
years ago (sob),
But that was many long years ago
Dodo, dodo, dodo-o-o-o!
* * * *
“Nunk”; Dear eggs are no longer sour
grapes—the poultryman has found a
means of making his unbuyable eggs
inedible. Our door-to-door eggman says
the vile, bitter taste of such eggs as he
has egged us into buying is caused, not
by isinglass, but by something they’re
giving the chooks. Word from the water-
front is that they’re bringing in from
South Africa bags and bags of powdered
fish that you can’t stay in the down-wind
from; whether this is blameable, one
can’t say; the fact remains that they
have invented an egg that is on the nose
not only to the nose but also to the
palate.
* * * *
“Sutroh”; One doesn’t often hear of
a housewife speaking kindly of the high
price of fruit, but I know one who does.
Her youngest child used to suffer fairly
frequently from a rather irritating rash.
The doctor could not diagnose the cause
of it, but said the child must be allergic
to something in his diet. Just at that
time the price of bananas soared out of
reach and the rash gradually disap-
peared. It occurred to the mother that
the boy might be allergic to bananas, so
she bought two at the high price. The
rash returned. Since that day Jack has
not tasted a banana, and he has not been
troubled with the slightest sign of a rash.
. * * * *
Chas. A. Switzer: Had “Timekeeper”
(B. 2/7/ ’52) taken his watch to a member
of the Horological Guild of Australasia
he would have received a full report and
quotation according to the guild official
price-list. He would then have received
satisfactory service and attention. It i s
hardly feasible that a watch dropped
from a first-floor window should only
have a jewel loosened.
* * * $
“Clooter”: It surprised me not to
read a cable item the other day to the
effect that Paris city council had passed
a law banning children under 16 from
bars. What did surprise me was the
further information that this would drive
out hundreds of “Existentialist youths with
tight-fitting black trousers and plaid shirts
and long hair, and horsetail-haired girls
in black slacks and sweaters.” An
“Existentialist” is a follower of a cult
started by the novelist Jean Paul Sartre,
whose The Age of Reason is a distressing
picture, not of ’teen-age morals, but of
the decadence of French intellectualism.
The reporter’s description of the young-
sters, of course, fits our own bodgies and
widgies, most of whom are closer to 26
than 16, and very few of whom ever read
Sartre or any other significant author.
I’ll take a shade of odds the same applies
to the Parisian variety.
♦ * * •
“Taffy”; The bath-heating contrap-
tions at which “Bo” takes umbrage (B.
2/7/’52) would appear to be of too
ancient a vintage to have been influenced
by modern trends ; in a very few cases
such articles are being produced by
heretics who refuse to take advantage of
modern aids to industry, or they have
been installed in unsuitable places, which
has necessitated complicated plumbing.
Where this happens in new buildings the
architect must shoulder the blame.
Standardisation of fittings is normally
undertaken at the request of the State
or Federal authorities or associations con-
cerned, and is carried out with the full
co-operation of such authorities, together
with manufacturers, architects, retailers
and purchasers—all of whom are repre-
sented on the committees of the Standards
Association of Australia. Although the
S.A.A. has been instrumental in assuring
interchangeability and replacement of
parts, and thus making construction and
repair, even of very complicated items,
both much simpler and cheaper, it has
not been its policy to attempt to restrict
any legitimate urge for individuality of
product by insisting on drab uniformity
in unessential detail. Its work, however,
tends to simplify, very considerably, and
to streamline both appearance and de-
sign. With that I think both “Bo” and
myself will have to be satisfied for the
moment.
* * * *
“Peetee”; As orderly-sergeant I was a
bit rocked to see a private administering
a daddy of a hiding to our most junior
loot, who had clearly had a lot more
than one over the eight. I put the aggres-
sor under arrest, but was overruled by
the loot, who declared with a confidence
belied by his battered state that he was
able to take care of himself. Th® boast
drew the arrested one’s scornful retort:
“You never could look after yourself.
That’s why the old man made me promise
that I’d take you in hand in case your
pips went to your head. And 111 leather
you every time I see you stonkered until
I’m satisfied you can hold your grog!”
This was my first inkling that the reo loot
was the kid brother of Lofty, who’d been
soldiering since the outbreak.
PEEP-BO!
....Slickest line-ups of peeps, pin-ups....
dazzling Pin-up Girl of the Month in glorious full
c010r... .five complete red-blooded stories... ,* y — Ad~
vertisement for “ ‘Peep’—sensational new magazine
for Men only."
If you want to be a he-man and you haven’t
got the time,
Being tied down to an office-desk all day,
And to strike a blow for virtue, or commit a
clever crime,
Is a chance that fate has never brought your
_ ,
Don’t pine away or languish, or emit a mournful
cry,
For no one likes to see a strong man weep;
The scenes of high adventure will unroll before
your eye
If only you will take a little peep.
Do you want to be a cowboy, but you haven’t
got the cash
To take you and your ’shooter to the range?
Would you like to dive for pearls, or would
you like to cut a dash
On the high seas, but you can’t rake up the
change?
If you haven’t got the money to go where the
villains rage,
You can cut their throats and shoot them on
the cheap;
You can wade through blood and slaughter for
a florin, page by page,
If only you will take a little peep.
Would you like to run a night-club, or sit in
at baccarat,
A lone-wolf, there, among the dangerous
blades,
But cannot stand the limelight, and the female
la-di-dah
That interrupt the bashings and the raids?
A modest hero subtly will avoid a court of
law;
Lone-wolyes can always look before they leap
And see high-life, as privately as What the
Butler Saw,
By taking of a surreptitious peep.
A fella likes to see fan-dancing females flaunt
their fans,
A bloke is not a bloke without a gel,
Chaps will be chaps; but many a good, red-
blooded man’s
Desires have led him down the path to —well,
You need not risk the claws of love, or the
eternal flames,
You do not have to lose your head or sleep,
There are better types of women by the quire
for squires-of-dames
Who only want to have a little peep.
Your true, red-blooded gentleman is not the
rorty type,
With battle-scars and cauliflower-ears;
You never see him beat-up girls, or take an
angry swipe
At cops, or run around with racketeers;
But if you listen carefully, and if your eyes
are clean,
Some day, perhaps, you’ll chance to see him
creep
Into a bookstall, buy a magazine,
And steal away to have a little peep.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“F.S.”; Somebody said the other day
tlaat Picasso was the most inexplicable
phenomenon of modern times. His
enormous prestige may be inexplicable,
t>ut there is nothing so about his pictures.
There is nothing to understand in
liim; nothing new in his paint-
ing. He changed the forms by
putting two eyes on the profile of a
woman or shoving her breasts up above
tier eyebrows. What is there new or
inexplicable in that? Every child does
it when it first attempts to draw. In the
child’s case it is unconscious—it doesn’t
know any better. Picasso did it con-
sciously; and the -whole art world flopped
down on its stomach and adored the new
fashion.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”: Though only chicken-
feed alongside Captain Kidd’s treasure,
bushranger Gardiner’s gold should, on
present-day values, be worth about
£40,000, and it is a wonder some pros-
pector with modern electronic gear hasn’t
gone after it. There is considerable evi-
dence that the unrecovered proceeds of
the Eugowra and other robberies are
buried on Mary’s Mount, overlooking the
selection of Gardiner’s associate Fogg on
ORDER
DOUCHOSAURIaI
the Fish River, near Reid’s Flat. This
selection is now part of Eurimburra
station, and Fogg and his wife are buried
in an old stone-and-mortar vault near
their shanty. Here Hosie and Middle-
ton, the troopers, caught up with
Gardiner, and in the subsequent battle
all three were wounded—Middleton and
Gardiner badly ; Fogg gave a classic
example of how to run with the hare
and hunt with the hounds. When taken,
Gardiner had only 10 sovereigns in his
possession, and Fogg later boasted that
he provided the other £4O of the £5O
Hosie was alleged to have received for
letting the outlaw go—Gardiner promis-
ing to set the pair up for life. Gardiner
was cared for in a cave on Mary’s Mount
by an old Bigga squatter who furnished
him with horses to get to Queensland,
where he was arrested and imprisoned
pending deportation. He never got to
his hoard again. When things quietened
an Irishman appeared at Fogg’s with a
map allegedly drawn by Gardiner, and
he, with Fogg, made several unsuccessful
attempts to locate the loot. As a
youngster I hunted for it myself, but my
only find was a copper pannikin of
unusual design.
“Ex-C.G.”: Collar-sizes (B. 9 *7/’52)!
It was boots I sought in the Vic. Mallee
store. The storekeeper looked at my
sft. 6in. and lOst. and said, shortly,
“You’ll have t’ wait till we can order
some. We never keep anything under
eights here.”
V * * *
“Sack”: He was rude to the waitress
without provocation, his table manners
wouldn’t have done for the dock, and
halfway through his meal he got up,
stamped down to the counter, where the
restaurant proprietor had a mantel radio,
and demanded that “that dead march” be
cut off. It was the first time I’d heard
“Celeste Aida” classed as a funeral
piece; the proprietor seemed to think
the same, too, but the customer’s harsh
“I like to eat me tea in peace” influenced
him into switching to a raucous voice*
giving racing results —which apparently
satisfied the sensitive one. I left the cafe
just behind the complainer. A sudden
gust of wind blew a man’s hat off and
swept it across the road. Instantly the
boor leapt after it, dodged death in three
places, and returned the lid. And now
I’m mentally debating: Do we chase hats
to be polite or is it merely the thrill of
the chase? In any case, it was a wise old
nobleman who told his nephew: “Never
run after your own hat, my boy; some-
body will always bring it back —and be
happy to do it.”
* * * *
“Ahreno”: The admiral was inspecting
the assembled ship’s company. He came
to Stripey, a very ancienj mariner, and
glared at the bow of Stripey’s cap-ribbon,
which was over his left ear, far removed
from the prescribed position. In the
manner adopted by admirals when ask-
ing a question to which they know there
is no answer, he asked “Do you have a
special dispensation to disobey orders
about cap-ribbons?” Stripey, not a bit
abashed, replied “Yes, sir. Upper top-
gall’ntman in the old Britannia, I was.”
The admiral looked at Stripey for a
moment, and with a quick “Oh, yes, I
forgot,” he passed on. I meant to ask
Stripey later whether this was fact or
just an excellent exhibition of fast think-
ing, but I didn’t get around to it, I know
the admiral didn’t know the answer. I
asked him.
* * ♦ ♦
“Ex-R.S.M.”: A little-known factor in
the halting of the Japanese drive to the
south in 1942 was a technical fault in
their aircraft. From Germany they had
obtained the plans and specifications of
a light, fast, long-range bomber. It had
performed wonderfully well in Europe ;
the Japs put it into mass-production,
christening it “Kubi-ga-nai-hikoki”—
literally, plane-without-a-neck, from its
blunt nose—and they were delighted with
the performance of the first ones to roll
off the assembly-line. A ferry-service was
established -to fly the planes to the
forward areas as fast as they were pro-
duced, but our recce photographs soon
revealed a major disaster. On emergency
airstrips, island beaches or crashed in the
jungle were hundreds of the new planes.
The number that went into the sea,
involving the loss of a trained airman as
well, may have been even greater.
Eventually the facts came out. The
engines used glycol in their cooling-
systems and had been designed for a
cold climate. In the tropics they over-
heated and seized-up, with the result that
“Is this the best you can do?”
Japan found herself without light planes
at the very time when they were most
needed!
* * * *
“Senex”: A group of us, regulars at
Brisbane Cricket Ground, flatter our-
selves that we sit together so that,
should emergencies for a football-match
be needed in a hurry, they can get the lot
of us in one swoop without chasing all
over the ground. Possibly that’s just an
egotistical fancy. Anyway, the other day
we were discussing a man we all knew
well. We agreed he was failing; old-age
had got him in its grips. As the senior
member of our team remarked feelingly:
“Poor chap! He’s settled. Old-age has
got him. Why,” he concluded by way
of explanation, “he must be well
over fifty now!” We agreed. We felt
sorry for that ancient mariner. Then we
were suddenly struck silent. I don’t know
if the others were thinking as I was. I’m
the > of the group—67 a few days
a p o
* * « 9
“Loulalo”: A blind parson friend
described to me an experiment in which
he and four other blind men had
taken part. At a selected spot they were
each in turn faced in various directions
and told to walk straight ahead. Two
sighted men, blindfolded, were also tested.
The selected spot, they learned later, was
a fives-court. Faced to the open end all
seven of them kept going ahead, but faced
to the walled sides or end the blind men
afl puffed up short of collision while the
sighted men blundered on. My friend,
who has not always been blind, got closer
to the waff before sensing it than two
others, blind from birth, and a third
who had been blind for many years All
the blind men claimed that they felt
the presence of an obstacle though none
could describe the feeling very well. My
friend said it seemed to him to have some
connection with atmospheric pressure; he
relt it in Jus ears.
w * . * *. ,
Jasby : Many a time on seeing the
wrecked remains of a bottle of beer or
wine .? n <is e f ° ot P atb 1 have bought to
myself, There s another poor old drunk
has lost his bottle. My assumption has
always been that no man m his sober
senses could possibly drop a bottle,
Maybe IU be more tolerant m future.
Yesterday a friend passing this way on an
inter-State ship called in and brought me
a present, “Thought you might like a
couple of bottles of Melbourne beer,” he
said. “They’re wrapped up, but I’ll leave
them in this attach6-case for easy carry-
ing.” Even the royal commission hasn't
eased Sydney’s bottled-beer position so
much that one isn’t grateful for a brace
of Melbourne beer, and I said so with
enthusiasm. I left the office last night
clutching the case. I was still clutching
it a few minutes later when it burst open
and deposited the two bottles on the hard
pavement of George-street. Sadly I
pushed the mess of brown paper, broken
glass and creamy foam into the gutter
and continued my way with the empty
case. This morning as I neared my office
I noticed some broken glass in the gutter
and a beer-stain on the footpath. It
wasn’t until I was halfway through my
customary “Poor-old-drunk” soliloquy
that realised it was my beer. I didn’t
finish the soliloquy. As I said, perhaps
I’m becoming more tolerant.
“Latilla” (Vic.): Reno, famous for its
divorce-mill, would seem to be the last
place on earth to attract a Mormon, yet
cables reported an army of Mormons,
25 miles wide and 14 miles deep, invading
the country quite recently. But they were
crickets, not humans. Forty tons of
poisoned barley arrived Jn the nick of
time to save the main reservoir at
Nevada’s Albany, and the population
worked flat-out spreading the poisoned
bait. Many a bad smell has issued from
Reno through the years, but a State
agricultural official predicts the poison
laid “would stir up a stench like millions
of dead fish rotting in the sun.” Yes, I
think I still prefer Melbourne,
*** , *
Ceg ; Back in the days of the wind-
jammers some strange things arrived in
Australian ports as ship s ballast, includ-
m S as seeds in earth-ballast many
plants which have become troublesome
pests. Quite one of the most unusual
items to arrive in this way was a stone
Buddha weighing about half a ton. It
was left lying on the wharf and the
authorities, thinking it might have some
value had it removed to a Mechanics
where it reposed for 40 years,
an antiquarian spotted it with the
result that it was given a good cleaning
and , °^® red . tbe National Gallery
trustees in Melbourne. They turned it
down > bat lt was subsequently sold and
tbe P urc haser has loaned it to another
m useum . where it stands today. One
wonders in what Indian port and m what
circumstances it came to be shipped as
ballast. Unlike Wilkie Coffins s moon-
f one ’ no successors to Gautama have so
ar con^ e looking for it. #
“ Laeti tia”: Somewhere in the archives
t h e L anc js Office in Brisbane there
should stm be a document which was
compiled by a Crown Lands r who
had received a “ please explain” after he
had> in the matter of the assessment of
tbe carr yj n g capacity of a certain pro-
perty, submitted an estimate considerably
below that of his predeC essor. The
seC ond man’s explanation was mordantly
meaty in its contention that: “If my pre-
deCessor reckons Wiregrass is 6-acre
country, then all I can say is that he
must have inspect ed it through the
wavering end of an empty bottle.”
* * % *
“Uramao”: Abbreviations? Down in
Otago province (N.Z.) at a township
called Alexandra I came across the
Carnegie Library. It gave me a bit of a
jolt, for I was always under the impres-
sion that the old philanthropist’s
Christian-name was Andrew, yet there in
large lettering were the words; “Alex,
Carnegie Library.” When I tried to be
facetious at the residents’ lack of know-
ledge I was soon disabused of the idea
that Andy was unknown in the town,
“Alex.,” it appeared, was a sign writer’s
abbreviation of Alexandra.
THE CHEAPER WAY.
it Is true that the cost of having a
& reshaped is still beyond the purse of most people,
who are dissatisfied with the shape of their
t&° & can have them altered for a moderate cost.”
ea J -—Medical 'journal.
titlements physiognomic
ingenuousness we’d assess,
most of us reckon as comic
features perforce we possess.
we never expected perfection
V v j=rjrom Nature when she did her job,
she could have (on closer inspection)
jviade our nose£ not merely a blob !
c> doubt she had kindly intention,
~ thought it might prove quite a help
TjjitX i a phiz to cause dogs apprehension—
much that in terror they’d yelp.
Tt ’g, when you reflect that your bugle
1 T° starboard continues to lean
because lack of pelf makes you frugal,
J "X'hal causes you bitter chagrin.
j U 5t think! You could look like Apollo
J all seen his statue, undraped),
in feminine smiles you could wallow
you get that organ reshaped.
the hands of a good plastic surgeon
A new, streamlined snout you could grow,
-ppen your masculine beauty would burgeon—
If only you had lots of dough!
put should you have lugs sprouting sideways,
X-ike waterwings, out from your face,
jjn spite of the fact that you’ve tried ways
Xdke pinning them back into place,
'X'uke heart! For a sum not excessive—
" You may have them pruned to your taste:
boldly upstanding—impressive—
Or so small you’re almost barefaced.
DT they’ve the latest designs for your choosing,
Some dignified, some rather cute,
W'File others are mildly amusing—
But every one fashioned to suit.
It's really a capital service
They offer, at bargain rates, too,
TTiere’s no need at all to be nervous,
Admit it, the job’s overdue.
>N.nd yet, if it’s simply reshaping
Of ears that you want —is it wise
To splash up the cash you’ve been scraping
Together? Just let me advise:
C3o up to the bar where some fellow —
A large one —is drinking; then leer
Xn his face, give a very loud bellow,
And knock your pipe-ash in his beer!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


HOUSE—FOR SALE.
Sydney Bungalow residence (Cre-
morne). Harbour front, three bed-
rooms, reception, two bath, carpeted
throughout, separate staff flat and
double garage, £lO,OOO. Terms.
DR. CKOI/L,
139 Macquarie Street,
Sydney.
XY 2728 Evenings.
Public Notice.
F, CHRISTA ' LISELOTTE CRAVEN-
SANDS, of German nationality, bom at
Hirschberg, Germany, resident one year
in Australia, now residing at The Rectory,
Castle Hill, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WARREN ALFRED GASKELL late
of Connors River Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that ALICE ISABEL GASKELL
has filed Petition No. 2192 of 1952 pray-
ing for a Divorce from you on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 16th day of Sep-
tember 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MR. JOHN
SIDNEY HEANEY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
DARK LEAF
by C.REYNOLDS
IN Newtown there have
always been, and probably
always will be, old ladies sit-
ting on balconies. Some
observe passing life, others pass
life observing neighbors. (The
subtle distinction between the
two types is determined by the
nature of their inquisitiveness.)
Some scheme, some dream and
some are hardly distinguishable
from the drab lifelessness of their
environs. And it was into this
last category that I was com-
pelled, one Sunday afternoon, to
put Mrs. O’Reilley.
Martha O’Reilley did not
respond to my shouted greeting,
although it must have been
audible to half the inhabitants of
the narrow street. I shrugged,
remembering that Martha had
always been decorous to the
point of aloofness in social
contacts, and was possibly
affronted by being addressed
from the street. I looked up at
the balcony, which overhung the
street, and could discern her,
huddled in a dilapidated chair,
her head bowed. Momentarily,
I thought that perhaps the
woman was not Martha at all,
but this conjecture was contra-
dicted by the appearance of
Mike O’Reilley.
“No use talking to her,” he
said, grasping my arm to steady
himself, and breathing wine
fumes into my face. “Come in
and have a drink.”
He propelled me into the
house, and along the small, dark
hall to the kitchen.
“Eileen’s here,” he said.
“Eileen? But I thought she’d
left home?”
“The old lady drove her out
once,” said Mike. “Things have
changed a bit since then.” He
gave an ambiguous laugh.
Standing in the kitchen, and
observing the dust, disorder and
decay of it, I realised that things
indeed had changed, and
wondered what cataclysm had
occurred. Martha’s kitchen had
always reflected housewifely
scrupulosity her domestic
science had been well known,
and commented upon in the
neighborhood often with
malicious envy, but occasionally
with .vague respect, and to
Martha, herself, it was almost an
obsession.
“Get some beer out of the ice-
box, ’Leen,” said Mike.
A THIN woman rose from the
pile of old bags upon which
she had been sitting, unobserved,
in a shadowy corner of the room,
and dragged herself languidly to
the ice-box. By the sunlight
which streamed through the
broken window, I perceived the
deep lines in her face, the cynical
and sullen mouth, and, when she
turned towards us, the heavy-
lidded, lustreless eyes.
“Hello,” she said tonelessly.
She poured beer into grimy
glasses.
“You look uneasy,” said Mike.
He took a gulp of beer, and
wiped the froth from his mouth
with his sleeve. “Do you think
the old lady is likely to come
down and roar the daylights out
of us?”
His remark corresponded to
precisely what I had been think-
ing, and I started, involuntarily.
Mike laughed.
“Lot o’ things have happened
since you were here,” he said.
“Must have been about fourteen
years ago.”
“Yes, it must have been easily
that. I left just before” 1
stopped abruptly.
“Just before Bud arrived,”
supplemented Eileen. “Don’t
worry about embarrassin’ me. I
sorter got used to it now.”
“What’s happened to the rest
of the family?” I asked. “Clare
and Terry and Leo?”
“Clare married a Yank. She’s
over in America now. Did pretty
well for herself. ’Course, the old
lady saw to that. Practically put
the bloke through the third
degree before he married Clare.
And Terry’s a foreman on the
wharves now. Married a posh
little bit o’ fluff from up the
North Shore line. Wouldn’ter
thought it, would you? They’ve
got a real nice flat over North
Sydney.”
He finished the beer In his
glass in a long, thirsty swig and
reached across the table for the
bottle.
“Leo was killed during the
war,” he said. “I suppose you
know that.”
“No, I didn’t. Did it upset
your mother very much?”
“Upset her!” He made a
peculiar sound—a type of dis-
gusted croak. “Could you
imagine a little thing like that
upsetting her ? Huh !”
\/ EARS before, Mike had said
1 the same thing on the
occasion of his father’s funeral.
I appeared at Martha’s house in
lake-street in reply to her adver-
tisement of accommodation, and
found that she, and her family,
had returned only a few minutes
before my arrival from Michael
O’Reilley’s funeral. Martha
showed me the room —it was
small and poorly ventilated —but
the rent was reasonable, and as
an art-student I was far from
being overburdened by finance.
Later, after I’d hung a few
clothes in the curtained corner
which served as a wardrobe, I
made my way downstairs, and
could not avoid overhearing
young Mike, who was then
about fifteen, talking to his
mother.
“Who’s the bloke upstairs?”
“That man,” came his mother’s
voice, with emphasis on the
“man,” “is renting your old
room.”
“Where the hell am I going
to sleep?”
A loud smack and a yell
followed.
“Just mind your language.
You’ll bunk in with Terry and
Leo.”
“Aw, gee.”
“And like it.”
“If Pop was still alive he
wouldn’t have anyone renting
rooms here.”
“Maybe not. He’s dead, but
we’ve still got to live, haven’t
we?”
There was no reply. I
retreated to my room, and
remained there until nightfall.
At about seven o’clock I ven-
tured out, looking for a cafe. I
collided with Mike in the hall.
“Look,” I said, “I didn’t know
it was your father’s funeral to-
day. I hope that coming so
early hasn’t upset your mother.”
It sounded stupid and inade-
quate, but I didn’t want him to
feel too badly about my taking
over his room.
“Upset her? A little thing like
that? She’s never upset about
nothing.”
And he pushed past me with
an odd, choked snarl.
DURING the years I spent at
Mrs. O’Reilley’s I found
much to confirm Mike’s opinion.
Martha’s standards were high—
she believed implicitly in
morality, manners, cleanliness
and education, and by phrase
and flogging endeavored to
inculcate these into her children.
They responded according to
their natures. Clare, approaching
twenty, was a quiet and demure
girl, deeply religious, but with
the same hard core of discipline
that her mother had. Terry, a
year younger, was rather dull-
witted, and addicted to fits of
despondency, but was tractable,
nonetheless, while Leo, gay and
volatile, was constantly repri-
manded by his mother, some-
times to good effect, but more
often to rlo effect at all.
It seemed that in the twins,
Eileen and Michael, the urge to-
wards rebellion, absent in the
others, was concentrated. What-
ever was forbidden to them
immediately became irresistible,
and they were constantly becom-
ing involved in street fights, or
junior gang warfare. They
loitered around hotels and picked
up some extraordinary expletives,
they persecuted barrow-men or
hawkers, they had some narrow
escapes from the law when
pursued for vandalism.
And Martha, after each
escapade, would belabor them
soundly with a hickory walking-
stick which had once belonged
to Michael. There would be
bloodcurdling shrieks and pitiful
storms of sobbing, but hardly
had their hides smarting
than they would begin planning
fresh peccadilloes.
I had been at Martha’s a year
when I did her portrait. It was
difficult persuading her to sit for
me—she was an intensely active
woman, and had no compunc-
tion about stating that she con-
sidered sitting for a portrait a
sinful waste of time. I per-
severed, and she grudgingly
allowed me a couple of hours.
It was not a large portrait, and
was completed in a week. She
appraised the finished picture
coldly.
“It’s all right,” she said. “But
I don’t hold with painting,
myself. Now we have photo-
graphy there doesn’t seem any
need for it, does there?”
I remained silent, not wishing
to argue with her. A few days
later I found Mike standing in
front of the portrait, grinning
broadly.
“Like it?” I asked.
“ ’Struth,” hp said. “It’s her,
all right. Hard. You’ve shown
her up beaut. That background
of old bricks and iron railin’
looks soft in comparison.”
I laughed, but couldn’t help
feeling a little ashamed. It was
hardly ethical, in the artistic
sense, to make one’s opinion of
one’s subject so obvious. Yet, I
rationalised, I had caught and
revealed the dignity and dis-
cipline inherent in Martha —it
was up to the observer what con-
clusion, if any, could be made
as to her character.
THE war did not make any
appreciable difference to the
family, with the exception of
Eileen, who seemed to grow sud-
denly out of adolescence. It
wasn’t until the advent of the
Americans that I realised just
how quickly she had become a
woman.
It was on the afternoon that
Martha had dragged Mike from
the corner hotel and up the street
through a gauntlet of jeering
neighbors that we discovered
Eileen had left home. Martha,
having locked Mike in his bed-
room, tackled this new problem
with her usual indefatigibility. I
recollect, vividly,’ seeing her
walking with brisk step along
the now-darkening street, firmly
clutching Michael’s hickory
walking-stick.
Two hours later Martha
appeared with Eileen. Eileen
looked bedraggled and furious,
her make-up was smeared with
tears and her lips were com-
pressed savagely together. She
clutched an orchid corsage in
one hand. I noticed that even
while Martha was scrubbing the
make-up from her face with a
coarse towel, followed by a brisk
spanking with the hickory stick
across her posterior, Eileen clung
on to the orchids,
“You might live in a slum,”
Martha snapped, between blows,
“but you’re not going to act as
if you do.” She hurled less
pleasant invective after Eileen as
the sobbing girl ran upstairs.
Eileen’s next break from home
was for a longer duration.
Roughly three months, if I
remember correctly. When
Martha eventually found her,
and brought her back to lake-
street, it was obvious why Eileen
had stayed away. Martha did
not hit her daughter. But her
words, on that occasion, were
more cutting than any blow
could have been.
<i IT ERE, you’re lagging
n behind,” said Michael.
“Down that and I’ll pour you
another. Get another coupler
bottles outer *the ice-box, ’Leen.”
I drank the beer hastily, and
watched Michael refill the g] aS c
“Doin’ any more painting
lately?” he asked. §
“Quite a lot,” I replied,
“Young Bud wanted to tab
it on,” said Mike.
“Bud?”
“My kid,” said Eileen. Her
voice was completely emotion-
less. “My dear little b »
She gave a harsh laugh. “Some-
times I wondered if he was mine
Once Mum got her hands on
him, he just didn’t belong to me
any more.”
Mike seemed amused at my
surprise.
“Does sound odd, doesn’t it?”
he said. “It’s true, though. I’d
never have believed the old girl
capable of affection. Oh, she
tried to hide it, of course, but it
was obvious that she’d taken a
fancy to Bud. I remember
coming in late one night and
finding her walking up and down
nursing Bud and crooning him to
sleep. Gee! It stunned me! ”
“Yeah, it was an eye-opener to
me, too,” said Eileen. “I reckon
she’d have kicked me and
Michael out .years ago, if: it
hadn’t been for Bud. She got so
wrapped-up in. him that she
didn’t seem to worry about us
" any more. At times,” she con-
tinued, and her voice held an
intonation of incredulity, “she
was almost kind.”
“She gave up pruning the
family-tree,” said Michael. His
face was flushed, and his eyes
engorged with blood. “She
devoted herself to Bud. By
Heaven, that kid got away with
a lot, too. Nothing Bud did was
wrong. Why, the things we’d got
our hides tanned for when we
were kids! Bud could do them
without a word being said. By
the time he was seven years old
he was a damned little devil.
And his grandmother backed
him up in everything.”
“She seemed to take on a new
lease of life,” said Eileen, pour-
ing herself another beer with an
unsteady hand. “She went out
with Bud a lot. Took him to the
pictures about once a week, and
ST. SEBASTIAN.
Who with his arrows pierces this my flesh?—
Has many shafts caught fast within the mesh
Of senses that is man netted with fears
And dreams of ease and soft debauchery,
I had not known man was a net of pride
Through which life’s waters tumbled ceaselessly,
Leaving a haul not often worth the landing.
Or with a use beyond his understanding.
Now there are pin-pricks, and the searing spike
Of pain that drives truth harshly to its home
Against the rotting barriers of fame.
Whose are these arrows and their feathered hate
Whose metal tips make me their magnet, line
My flesh with others’ blood—or is it mine?
O, lusty, virile archers; in my breath
There sobs your reckless living—and our death.
N S W *
ERIC IRVIN.
THE CONDUCTOR.
No you are wrong. I do not love me.
I you fool am no more 1
with some half-mad half-made identity
than I am you. But I
am whole and so no person
but like this flex powerless
without the supreme power urging upon
one end and on the other yes
the power’s frail symbol light
that lets see. *
I am not what I dp.
I am either black or white—
the eternal conductor of the spirit
passing God through.
White does not love white nor black black.
Deny the flex the power and merit
departs from it.
I am the everwaiting conductor lacking
a horoscope a history and a tomb.
No matter. I have born the divine current
that filled with radiance my little room,
I am the passive channel of the torrent.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


C.S.R. CO.’S REPORT
Points from Chairman's Address to Shareholders
• Record Sales of Refined Sugar
• Expansion of Factories
• Poor Sugar Crops in Australia and Fiji
• Building Materials—Unsatisfactory Returns Despite
Record Sales
Deliveries of refined sugar in Australia
by the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.,
established a record during the year ended
31st March, 1952. This was announced by
the Chairman of the Company, Mr. E. R,
Knox, in his annual address to shareholders.
Mr. Knox said that total
sales of sugar and golden
syrup by the Company
were 534,000 tons —60,000
tons higher than for the
previous year. Each of the
five C.S.R. Company’s
Australian refineries had
established record weekly
production rates.
As a result, the refined
sugar supply position is
better than at any time in
the last few years. The
Victorian position, which
has been the most difficult,
is now much sounder.
C.S.R. Plays Part in
Expanding Australian
Raw Sugar Industry
Plans for the expansion
of the Australian sugar in-
dustry were made some
time ago to raise raw
sugar production to
approximately 1,050,000
tons. As part of that plan
the Company is duplicat-
ing its “Victoria” mill
and making extensive
additions to its Macknade
and Goondi mills.
Expansion of
Refineries
The refinery expansion
and plant replacement
programme is accelerating,
although progress in some
sections is still slow owing
to delay in delivery of
steel and heavy machinery.
The steam and power
generating capacity of our
Sydney refinery has been
strengthened considerably
by the installation, at a
cost of £600,000, of a sec-
ond modern high-pressure
boiler, and two 3,000 kilo-
watt turbo alternators.
C.S.R. Mills in Fiji
In Fiji the Company’s
five mills produced 113,000
tons of raw sugar. A
record area of cane was
planted by the farmers in
1951, but dry conditions
and the hurricane which
struck the island in Janu-
ary have reduced the pros-
pective 1952 harvest.
Nevertheless, there will be
a substantial increase in
production over any of the
three preceding years.
Refined Sugar
Position in
New Zealand
The waterside workers’
and seamen’s strike dur-
ing 1951 caused a heavy
loss of refined sugar pro-
duction. But since the
middle of August produc-
tion has been maintained
at a high level and in re-
cent months has exceeded
the demand by a substan-
tial margin.
Ships
The s.s. “Fiona” has
been converted to enable
her to operate as a full
molasses tanker, while re-
taining adequate space for
dry cargo. The s.s.
“Rona,” oldest of the
Company’s ships, is under-
going extensive overhaul,
but consideration must
soon be given to her even-
tual replacement.
Distillery Products
Although production of
industrial alcohol at the
Company’s two,distilleries
increased appreciably dur-
ing the year, it is still be-
low demand. It is hoped
that this year increased
supplies will be available
to meet the full demand.
. C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd.
As announced in the
press early in January,
the chemical interests in
Australia of our own Com-
pany and The Distillers
Company Limited of
Great Britain have been
amalgamated. To do this,
“Sugar in Disguise”
More refined sugar would
be available to Austra-
lian housewives if it were
not for an export trade
in goods which are little
more than “sugar in dis-
guise” for example,
cake and dessert mixes,
fondant and heavy
syrups. Government
authorities in the United
Kingdom and Australia
have been advised of the
implications of this trade.
the constitution of C.S.R.
Chemicals Ltd. was altered
to enable The Distillers
Company Limited to
acquire a 40 % interest,
the nominal capital was in-
creased from £4,000,000 to
£6,000,000 and the name
changed to O.S.R. Chemi-
cals Pty. Ltd.
The pooling of interests
and the consequent avail-
ability of the technical
knowledge and experience
of the two companies en-
sure a sound basis for de-
velopment in this section
of chemical industry.
Building Materials
Total sales of building
products during the year
established a record, but a
decided downward trend
in demand occurred dur-
ing the latter half of the
year.
Despite the record sales,
the return was low, be-
cause of the rigid Govern-
ment price control. Al-
though building costs have
quadrupled since pre-war,
the price of building
materials has not increased
by anything near the same
proportion. Cane-ite
prices, for example, have
increased only 66% since
1939.
Production of asbestos
fibre has increased sub-
stantially.
Several examples of recently completed
heavy works undertaken by C.S.R. in expand-
ing factories and building new ones.
m
m
:
I‘OWER STATION: Section of a new power station at the
C.S.R. Co.’s “Victoria” Mill, Herbert River, North Queensland.
C.S.R. is doubling the capacity of this mill and building a new
railway to collect cane from newly settled farm lands. Sugar
cane in Australia is grown by 9,000 independent farmers and
crushed by 35 raw sugar mills. C.S.R. owns 7 of these mills.
■
i
m
CHEMICAL FACTORY: These modern out-door chemical
plants produce basic and strategically important chemicals
for Australian industry. Built by C.S.R. at Rhodes, N.S.W.,
these installations are now part of C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
factories, and the most up to date of their kind in the world.
ItOIliEIi: This huge high pressure t)oiler is one of two
recently completed at Pyrmont Refinery. It has an hourly
capacity of 80,000 lbs. of steam at 650 lbs. pressure per
square inch.
on t* ar k° r trips and jaunts to the
z °“she never done it for us when
were kids,” interposed
Michael.
“Well, Bud had a lot of per-
gOJlality. You must admit that,
IVfik 10 '
“Oh, he played up to the old
aXt \ all right. He could put a
fin® ov er, even at that age.
ivlayk' e ,” he said, with a sly look
t Eileen, “he got that from his
father, eh?”
“One more word like that,
jy[ilce, and by”
“Okay, okay. I was only
jedding.”
“Where’s Bud now?” I asked.
MIKE drew a long breath
and looked at Eileen with a
vag ue pity. “He got knocked
by a car in town one night.”
“Dead?” I asked.
“Yeah,” said Mike curtly.
“G®t another bottle outer the
bo?G ’Leen.”
“How did your mother
react?”
“Huh! How do you think
she’d react? When I told her
she never said a word. Hasn’t
spoken to us since, ’samattero-
fact. Just sits up on the blinkin’
balcony all day. Doesn’t talk to
no one.”
“Might as well be dead,” said
Eileen.
“Ah, well,” sighed Mike.
“Tyrannies must fall.”
I looked at him in astonish-
ment.
“Don’t you think so?” he
challenged.
“Certainly, It just surprised
me to hear you say it.”
“I read, sometimes,” he
explained, “Tyrannies must
fall,” he repeated.
“When a tyrant becomes
human there’s nothing left for
him —or her,” I said,
“You’ve got something there,
mate,” said Mike. “How about
another bottle, ’Leen?”
“Ain’t any more,” she said.
“We’ll go down the road to
Tony’s,” said Mike. “He’s sure
to have a bottle,”
I couldn’t resist looking back,
before we turned the corner, at
the old lady on the balcony, at
that immobile, grey figure,
passed from effort into that
senility where it is always
Sunday afternoon.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is unaertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
F.W.J.L.: Nice in a quiet way, but
it doesn’t work out very we 11....
G.F.S. : The cricketing farce has to
be very good to outdo the original.
... .W.M.M.: Afraid, as you say
George Moore used to say, it will
have to be le panier.... H.W.: Your
last-minute surprise grew impatient,
and surprised us on page two
Z.V.W.: Men may well leave home
because of penguins, but you don’t
make it credible V.S.: As a set of
documented scientific facts it might
make a paragraph N.L.; Some nice
writing, but all it says is that some-
one got on a horse and stayed there.
N.J.: Flimsy... .E.P.: Be you the
voice of the downtrodden:—
We do not buy your paper, but occa-
sionally a relative sends it to me from
out west; consequently I have only just
read your unpleasant remark concerning
the little sketch. At first I laughed;
there is evidently little humor in your
make-up; other publications have printed
several of such little bits of nonsense;
then suddenly I felt quite sorry for you,
and decided to send a few lines.
What pleasure do you actually derive
from such spiteful, whig-lash comments?
I tremble for young, aspiring writers who
trust you with their brain-children; your
supreme delight, it would appear, is to
stifle for ever the urge to write. Have
you honestly ever tried to help anyone?
How many words of encouragement have
you offered to those whose lives touch
yours ?
Although your success has been
achieved through your ability to be sar-
castic, cruel and discouraging, I don’t
envy you one iota. In fact, when my
first book is printed I’ll GIVE you an
autographed copy.
I’m happier than you’ll ever be sitting,
at your polished desk trying to think up
something particularly soul-shattering
with which to blast the amateur writer.
I once read something about each one of
us only passing this way but once; long,
long ago a great Teacher said “Be ye kind
one to another.’’ lam not angry with you,
just very sorry that fife has embittered
you; you are probably quite old; no
youthful person could be so caustic.
We demur to nothing but the
“polished desk” —that was indeed a
cruel cut.


ABORIGINALITIES
‘Old-timer”; Somewhere or other
Little Curl had picked up one line of a
ballad, which went “Galloping, galloping,
galloping, galloping (pause) galloping
over the hill.” Anywhere and anyhow
L.C. was likely to burst forth with it
and repeat it almost ad infinitum. He’d
mumble it putting his boots on, shout it
making for the horse-yard, hurl it at
balking sheep and mutter it when con-
sidering his discards in the nightly crib
,game. From amusement we passed to
endurance, then to chiacking, sarcasm
and fierce orders to stop. Little Curl con-
tinued. In the hut we began to consider
the merits of murder. Big Fleming, most
silent and most patient of us all, saved
Curl’s life. He took the shot from two
No. 6 cartridges, put the blanks in his
d.b. gun and leaned it against the wall.
When Curl came in, warbling his gal-
loping line, Fleming picked up the gun,
cocked it, aimed it at Curl, howled
“You’ve driven me barmy!” and fired.
Curl went through the door and ran nine
furlongs straight into the night. “That,”
remarked Fleming, “ought t’ slow his
ruddy galloping t’ a walk.” It did.
* * * *
“Ophir”; It is no mere coincidence
that since Bufo, the imported giant toad,
appeared on the canefields of N.Q. to
put the cane-beetles in their place there
has been noted a marked diminution in
the snake population, in particular death-
adders, which used to infest the cane-
fields. The reason for this is twofold.
First, Bufo gobbles up the young-’uns
with the same relish that he’d swallow a
worm. Second, when he himself falls
victim to a full-grown snake the toad
takes the victor to death with him ; this
is because of the poison glands along his
back. Once, when stray dogs and many
cats died or went missing the old excuse
of snakebite was good enough to account
for the loss. Nobody doubts any longer
who is responsible.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The other day
Pompey dropped in and, when the
talk got round to shooting, he
mentioned how he once nearly won
a fiver out from Three Springs.
The bet was that four men, with
six barrels among them, could get 200
ducks with a maximum of 10 barrels—
the blokes with the double-barrel guns re-
loading. The ducks were put up, but
what with one thing and another only
eight barrels were discharged; they got
180 birds, missing the bet by 20 ducks.
If you can’t visualise how thick the
ducks were for 180 to be got with eight
barrels, I’ll put it this way: One day we
had 700 sheep, in a paddock and they
gathered around a couple of shade-trees.
A couple of days later a flock of ducks
settled in that spot. They covered about
the same area as the 700 sheep had done.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: Living now in the Eastern
States and watching the local “efforts to
assimilate” a relatively small proportion
of New Australians, it’s hard not to grin
when one thinks back to the nor’-wesi
of Westralia 25 to 30 years ago. Every
seaport and station had plenty of “New
Australians,” but we didn’t call them that
or think of them as such. Out of 30-
odd men on one station alone there were
11 different nationalities, including an
Arab (who, incidentally, was never quite
clear as to how he happened to be In
Australia), a Portuguese who had been
happily married to three short-lived gins
and was wooing another with the aid of
a half-caste Spaniard who wrote his love-
letters for him ; a Dane and a Norwegian
between whom a slight coolness existed,
apparently the result of something that
happened in the days of Erik the Red ;
the inevitable jumble of Chinese cook,
Afghan cameldnver, Koepangers,
Malayans. Filipinos, half-castes, full-
bloods, Australian-born whites, and an
Englishman or two. In the towns the
mixture would be enlivened by wandering
Dutchmen from Singapore, Japs from (he
pearling luggers, Yugoslavs and Italians
who’d drifted up from “cutta da wood on
da Kurrawang line,” and almost every
kind of second-generation' such circum-
stances could and did produce. No notice-
able efforts were made to “assimilate”
the hotchpotch or get it “integrated into
the community” unless, among the whiter
groups, getting rip-roaring drunk together
falls into that category. Nobody
worried lest they “form their own racial
groups and settlements”; in fact, the
whites preferred the Asiatics to have their
own quarter, and the Asiatics preferred
it, too, because there they could live in
their own way ; and inter-racial friction
was never a serious problem. Now,
I’m not arguing in favor of misce-
genation, or unrestricted Asiatic or other
immigration. I just can’t help thinking
that if polychromatic groups like those
could get along together without Gov-
ernmental paternalism and restriction—
each permitted to live with its own kind,
permitted to find the work it was best-
fitted to do, to live a normal life with
women of the same race—wouldn’t a
similar absence of interference work even
better where all parties are, for one. thing,
of common European stock?
* * * *
“Brick E.”; The two jobs were on twin
hills with a wide valley between them.
On one the construction gang was work-
ing ; the other was still being excavated.
’Erb was in charge of both. His method
was to give the excavators their lines,
then hop on his bike and spend most
of the day supervising the construction
job, with an occasional glance across at
the other hill where tiny black specks
moved indistinctly. One day a “level
peg” got knocked over; ’Erb got out the
dumpy-level (a miniature theodolite) to
check the levels. It was while sighting
and adjusting the focus he was seen to
stiffen suddenly. He didn’t say anything,
but went over to his bike, jumped on it
and pedalled away. “What got into
him?” asked the puzzled chippy who
had been holding the rod. He walked
to the tripod and looked through the in-
strument. There he saw the answer—a
clear view of the other hill, with a supine
laborer apparently sound asleep. ’Erb
didn’t ride straight up to the hjll; he
circumnavigated it and came down from
the top. His arrival was a complete sur-
prise ; not until he was within 20 yards
did the rest of the gang—who were
toiling well —see him. Then one chap,
with misguided loyalty, darted away to
wake the sleeping beauty. ’Erb’s voice
stopped him: “Shh, don’t wake him.”
The man looked bewildered, “W-why,
why not?” he asked. “Well, you’re his
mate, ain’t you?” ’Erb drawled. “Yair,
but” “Well,” grinned the trump
grimly, “as soon as he wakes up he’s
going, to be out of a job.”
“Same again, miss."
“L.D.H.”: The birds which “8.A.K.”
saw (B. 21/5/’52) were obviously Aus-
tralian darters or snake-birds, a species
of cormorant. Larger than the ordinary
shag—they average about 36 inches from
beak to tail —they have, as the name
implies, a long snake-like neck and
narrow head, the motion of which is ex-
tremely ophidian, and these are practi-
cally the only visible portions when the
bird is in the water—like all their kind
they swim with the body practically sub-
merged. Have seen them along the
Murray and in Lake Alexandrina (S.A.),
but they are not plentiful. Leach lists
them as being found in lagoons and bays
throughout Australia and New Guinea.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: To settle that argu-
ment about the chain on petrol-wagons
(B. 18/6/’52), let’s go back to when the
Greek scientist Thales first discovered
the phenomenon about 600 b.c. Thales
found, no doubt by accident and much
to his surprise, that when an amber rod
was rubbed vigorously with a flannel
some unknown force manifested itself in
ways that we now associate with elec-
tricity. This force produced sparks and
“shocks,” but, although it was investi-
gated, it wasn’t named until, in a.d. 1600,
Gilbert coined the word which has
chained the greatest force in the world
for ever to its humble origin. The Greek
for amber was elektron. Electricity is
either current or static ; and static elec-
tricity, so-called because the charge is at
rest, is produced by friction, pressure,
heating or electrostatic
induction. It is by this
friction of a metal body
with air that electricity
is produced in a mov-
ing vehicle. Another
and more spectacular
example is known to
anyone who has worked
on a rotary printing
machine. The paper
passing rapidly through
the air acquires a charge
that is manifested in
sparks as it passes over
the steel rollers; and
anyone standing with
head bared within a
few inches of the flying
sheet will have his hair
drawn straight up to-
wards it. There are
dozens of other
examples, all proving that friction-pro-
duced electricity is very real and can
be very powerful. That chain dragging
from the petrol-tanker carries the charge
away as it is produced and so prevents
a dangerous build-up. 0.K.?
* * * *
“Bass”: W.A.’s professional fishermen
are asking to be classed as primary
producers for taxation purposes, and I
can’t see any reason why not. It may be
stretching the definition a bit to class as
“producers” men who just toss a line into
the sea and haul out something to whose
growth he hasn’t contributed ; but the
early squatters who turned sheep or cattle
loose to feed on the natural vegetation
hadn’t a much better claim. And just as
the old-type ranger had to turn farmer
to make the game pay, so the fisherman
will have to use more scientific method
to harvest his crop, and he may even hav
to feed and herd it. In spite of the far
that it’s one of the oldest methods h
which man has fed himself, fishing k
scientifically, in its infancy. America k
spending more on this line of research
than, perhaps, all the rest of the world
and interesting discoveries are being made
They’ve proved that an acre of good sea’
bed can produce nine tons of clam-meat
annually; that some areas of sea contain
more vegetation than the densest land
jungles, and that there are sea-deserts
which support far less life than the
Sahara. The Sargasso Sea is one—the
famed sargassum-weed which was credited
with such dense growth that it trapped
sailing-ships is really a sparse-growing sea-
cactus which can exist on practically
nothing. The Sargasso is a “desert” be-
cause the area is practically windless and
the winds are the ocean’s ploughs. They
stir up and rejuvenate it. By and large,
it seems the sea can be a far greater food-
producer than the land. There’s more of
it, it goes deeper—in places vegetation
grows half a mile down, and animal life
exists as far down as man has been able
to drop a net —and as the original home
of all life it’s probably more conducive
to growth. But it will have to be farmed.
Already we’re farming our whales—calves
and whales under a certain size are
barred from killing—and, in places, seals.
We’ll do more along those lines as we
learn more. Meanwhile, why not call
fishermen primary producers, and expect
them to live up to the name?
♦ * * *
“Kelms”; Why did “Yacko’s” pelicans
ascend in circles (B. 4/6/’52)? That’s
the way pelicans almost always rise, and
they frequently descend in the same way.
If “Yacko” had continued to watch them
he would probably have seen them level
out at a high altitude and go through a
series of aerobatics that would have
amply repaid the time he spent watching
them. Pelicans are among the finest aerial
performers in the bird kingdom, and their
displays are carried out with a precision
which suggests that the movements are all
part of a prearranged, and probably in-
stinctive, dance-pattern. Most birds on
the wing have a definite purpose—to get
food, or to travel —but pelicans will leave
a feeding-ground, rise in circles until
they’re almost out of sight, then swing
through their dances for an hour or so
before descending, again in circles, to the
same waters. I’ve watched them scores
of times, and I like to think they do it
for the same reason that a lark sings—
from the pure joy of living, and being
free.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Sheep do pick the
bleakest spots to camp (B. 11/5/ ’52). On
the small Bass Strait isles around Flinders
Island the jumbucks camp on weather
shores, and driving spume and cold winds
don’t seem to shift them. What’s more,
during calms there a skipper of a crayfish
ketch I know prophesies which direction
the wind will come away from—by the
woollies. The island sheep, he reckons,
can anticipate the wind, and if they come
and camp on an open shore where he is
anchored, he shifts.
INVADERS.
This is the song of the sheep—
The invader, the dreamer,
The meek-faced thief
That plunders and sunders and serves
A continent, dolt on whose bleat
Hangs clothing and food —
On grandee Merino’s melancholy,
Heavy with history of breed.
Lrpm Spain and Saxony the long lines
Of jPeppin and Wanganella blood
Irek over a continent—
Trom Hesse and Widgiewa, from Colapperty
Stud.
Not filth of felons nor soldier’s march
Laid waste the land,
But fifty million mild-eyed wethers
With attendant band
Rr g ro ' vers an h shearers and classers,
Of brokers and crow-throated buyers
Come from the world’s end
To bargain fbr a golden fleece.
While fifty million wethers soothe our dreams
Not fluke nor footrot, fly, nor fox defeats;
Lor wool is up and mortgage rates are down,
And sweet flows water on the sheepman’s flats.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Regd.
Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
m
SOK&
tim
A*
t m
olJ£>
9
r j Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit , it is Economic only pints of Kero for
Li hours' light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
"jACKSON V
OSUIJJVAN,
% mou A ;
V
TRADE
MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
W^T
Sr
LJ
ti
&
■wr.
TO PUT AUSTRALIA'S SHEET STEEL
THROUGH THE MILL
This is the motor that will
drive the Isr;est Cold
Reduction Sheet Steel Mill
south of the Equator.
Should the need arise, the
tremendous output of this
Mill would contribute on an
unpredictable scale to de-
fence requirements. In the
meantime, the new plant
will be hailed by manufac-
turers of motor car and
truck bodies, refrigerators,
washing machines, ranges
and countless other domestic
appliances. With adequate
supplies of suitable raw
steel available, it will help
step-up the flow of these
commodities to the waiting
public.
m
9
as
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT’S
WORKS PTY. LIMITED
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limited General Sales
Agents. SYDNEY; 33 Mac-
quarie Place. MELBOURNE:
70-84 Clarendon Street, South
Melbourne. ADELAIDE; 13
Grenfell Street. BRISBANE:
307-311 Queen Street.
FREMANTLE: Corner of
Short and Pakenham Streets.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: John
Lysaght's Bristol Works
Limited.
CR3A-52
THE lark ascending.
With the meek sheep and cattle I must share
Mv meadow and my humble homeland where
Mv brooding mate sits, rapt and out of time,
fn utter peace and selflessness sublime
While they, their faces set fast in the ground,
Crov the stiff grasses with a grating sound,
Moving their clumsy bulks with dawdling pace,
Now here now there, unthinkingly absorbed,
Yet lest the brooding atom be disturbed,
Stepping aside to spare her paltry nest
And the five futures huddled to her breast;
But I, essential spirit, I go soaring,
Hymning, rejoicing, the blue dome exploring,
Down upon the earthen scene outpouring
My rain of golden notes, a wasteful gush,
Spilt in the herbage and the bristling rush.
N Z . Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Mark O’Polo”; Wulgulmerang (B.
23/4/ ’52) is a straightforward, easy-to-say
word, and as an attempt to convey abo.
sounds with the English alphabet is
therefore probably fairly accurate ; but, to
judge by the weird combinations of
vowels and consonants with which pioneer
surveyors labelled some of the country
parishes around Melbourne, the job was
sometimes not so simple, nor were the
results always so easy as Wul-etc. on
the ear and eye. Buttlejorrk and Pywheit-
jorrk, for instance, are not elegant words
and can only be rough approximations
to the original sounds; the double “r”
was possibly meant to shorten the “o”
and make a guttural sound not found in
the invaders’ language. Similarly for
Djerriwarrh. Spelling, hyphenation and
separating into words seem to have been
arbitrarily decided by the surveyors. One
map gives Koo-Wee-Rup and Nar-Nar-
Goon, and another gives Will Will Rook
and Cut Paw Paw. He had a nice ear
who detected the double “t” in Mone-
geetta and Doutta Galla without the aid
of a hyphen. There are the lovely words
Dandenong and Maribyrnong, but Nar-
be-thong; there is Jika Jika, but Narree-
Wooran (so spelt); Woori-Yailock, but
Mordialloc. Said quickly, Jika Jika
sounds a bit like a willie-wagtail’s chirrup,
but the locals slow it down with a long
“i,” whaile retained people ridiculously
give the “i” a Continental value. Side
by side with these and dozens of other
abo. names, some graceful like Tanjil,
some grating like Jeetho, there are such
foreigners as Kinglake, Gruyere, Have-
lock, Fingal, Corinella, Burgoyne, grow-
ing in this verbal garden, up whose some-
what tangled paths future philologists
will doubtless wander happily for years:
and perhaps, slightly bemused, emerge
with Phillipisland and Korkuperrimul
derived from the same language,
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Before any of
those modern young blokes take “Edx’s”
advice and start lengthening the draw-
chain on a scrub-roller (B. 18/6/’52) let
me tell them a few facts overlooked
by “Edx.” The old style of scrub-
roller—it’s still used extensively in W.A.,
where the area to be rolled doesn’t
warrant the expense of a hi-ball team —
was designed with a draught that enabled
it to be drawn to the side of the tractor.
It wasn’t, as “Edx” so innocently
imagines, drawn from a centre pull. Con-
sequently the maximum control was
obtained from a short draw-chain. A
longer lead allowed the roller to wander,
and the pole, which was the part that
actually struck the scrub, to dip. Some
of that scrub was reasonably big, so the
higher you hit it the better. “Edx’s”
roller, with its long lead, would have
ploughed furrows in the ground and
smashed itself against the roots. As I
said before, I don’t know how the modern
young blokes would have tackled the
problem, but I thank “Edx” for telling
me.
“Just imagine! A few weeks ago these roads were almost impassable .”
“The Pirate”: You don’t have to go
to Antarctica to find sea-leopards (B.
11/6/’52). Odd ones are not uncommon
around Tassie shores. At Grassy Bay, on
King Island, Bass Strait, some years ago
Jack Maslin of the scheelite mine was
walking home along the beach one night
to his cottage by the wharf ruins when
something barked and frightened the
daylights out of him. A torchlight beam
revealed a long, spotted, bewhiskered, seal-
like animal about Bft. in length in his
path. He didn’t know what it was, but
with assistance he chained the strange
visitor up until next day, so his mates
would not think he had the dry horrors.
He photographed it and had it identified.
Incidentally, just by Maslin’s old cottage
is a rookery of penguins—a sea-leopard’s
main source of food.
♦ * • ♦
“B.”: Every year it is the old man’s
practice to lamb-down a mob of ewes
on the rough flat, and every year it is
my job to draft off the woollies as they
lamb, and shove them on to the top-
dressed country. Result, I have become
expert, through heartbreaking experience,
in the art of shifting sheep with young
lambs. Surprising the mistakes a novice
will make at this job. For instance, he
will. (1) take a dog into the maternity
paddock, thus frightening the ewes to
the far corner, making them leave their
lambs; (2) go round without a dog, and
so have no means of capturing the ewes
that need attention. Again, he will either
try to drive the lambed ewes alone, and
end up almost demented, or he will drive
them with a bunch of the unlambed, and
end up hopelessly boxed. Watching a
novice trying to drive three ewes with
lambs west, when one, as customary,
streaked madly north, one south and the
third remained stationary, 1 have seen
the tyro start off north or south after
one of the strays, thus giving the middle
jumbuck a wide-open chance to lose her-
self east. A beginner at this job might
ride a horse round the ewes, so that the
lambs will mill round the nag’s hoofs and
get stamped on; or he may walk, in
which case the woollies will make a
marathon out of it, and he must double
their pace in every direction at once till
he falls exhausted. No, there is only one
sane method. Mine. Wet to the hide
and dog-weary, I patrol the mob night
and day, and as each patient gets the
job over, I grab the youngster under one
arm, hoist up the old girl, trudge the
half-mile or so to the new paddock, and
shove the blighters in.
* * * *
“V.”: Jonesy is a youthful beginner
who is going to revolutionise farming and
step-up production with new progressive
methods. Intensive farming, he calls it,
and to that end is building a dividing-
fence across his back paddock. Concrete
and steel posts have saved him the work
of splitting local box, and a hired tractor
has saved some sweat. The enclosed area
is a porous, gravelly hillside about a mile
from the creek, where the cattle seldom
graze, but by shutting them in there during
the summer months Jonesy intends ’’o
turn that wasted grass into bank chequed
It’s a fine fence, and must have cost
young Jonesy quite a packet. I’d love
to see his phiz when he wakes up that
those cattle will need a drink.
* * * *
“Sackville”; For years I regarded the
tract of country from Appin (N.S.W.) to
within a mile or so of Bulli Lookout as
the dreariest expanse of bushland I had
ever seen. Then, last summer, fires swept
through the area, and the bush that had
been merely monotonously drab became
blackened and hideous. Last week
I passed that way again. What a differ-
ence! At first I thought that myriads of
creepers had twined around the burnt
branches and up some of the trunks. A
second glance corrected the impression.
The “creepers” were new shoots sprout-
ing out —not here and there as you would
expect new boughs to form—but all the
way along the seemingly dead branches.
On the trunks there were suckers shoot-
ing out like staghorns where, normally,
shoots would never come—between the
first branch and the ground. The trees
thus decorated were mostly bloodwoods,
wild-apple and stringy ; it was the yellow-
gums that really had me rubbing my
eyes. They were completely rejuvenated
—not even a black scar on them ; and
their bright yellow bark was as fresh and
clean-looking as Monday’s washing. No
longer does that stretch of bush look
dreary, to my eyes, anyway.
* * * *
“Kelms”: I’ll support “Murlonga’s”
claim that the abo. isn’t necessarily a
good bushman. Out ’rooing once
between Pindar and Bullsbrook (W.A.) a
mate and I took one dog with us and
arranged to meet Jackv, who had the
other two dogs
on leads, at our
usual camping-
place. Jac k y
hadn’t turned
up by dark, and
apparently h e
wasn’t close
enough to hear
our shots, so we
turned in. Made
an early start the next morning and found
him just on daybreak. He was well off
course, hopelessly bushed, and when we
found him he was sheepishly untying the
dogs. Knowing his own limitations in
the bush, he had spent the night with a
dog tied to each ankle. He wasn t going
to be parted from his only hope of find-
ing his way back to camp.


([rusaber
m
CLOT
*
GUARANTEED never to fade or shrink
YOU CAN OWN THIS £500.000
REFERENCE LIBRARY . . . FOR A
FEW SHILLINGS WEEKLY . . .
CHAMBERS'S
ALL-NEW ALL-BRITISH
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
Yes! A few shillings weekly and you can own the
amazing, superbly bound 15-volume newly written
all-British 'Chambers’s Encyclopaedia! Cost over
£500,000 to produce! Written by more than 2,500
world experts . . . each an authority in his particular
field. Completely new from cover-to-cover and right
up to the minute! Contains more than 14 million
words . . . more than 6,000 valuable illustrations
(many in glorious colour) . . . and more than 2,500
factual articles on every subject known to man! But
you must act quickly while easy terms can still be
offered.
FREE!
10 YEAR
SERVICE PLAN
With your Chambers’s Encyclopaedia you receive
absolutely free of charge the Chambers’s Encyclo-
paedia World Survey (1952) . . . and also the
Chambers’s Free Research and Information Service
for 10 years!
POST THE COUPON BELOW TODAY!
George Newnes (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Dept. B, 1 1 9 York Street, Sydney.
Please send me. without obligation, full details of the all-new
CHAMBERS’S ENCYCLOPEDIA and the supplementary
services available.
Name
Address *».»:
OE 1 A/12
Occupation
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A COMMONWEALTH CORONATION.
Following on its own sugges-
tions (already given here) for
changes in the Coronation
service, London “Times” now
has featured a supporting con-
tribution of special Dominion
and Empire interest by an
eminent church authority and
author, the Rev. Charles E.
Raven, Warden of Madingley
Hall, Cambridge.
Mentioning as his reason for
writing “the anxieties expressed”
to him both in Scotland and
Canada, “anxieties which are
widely felt all over the Com-
monwealth,” he proceeded:
“Anyone present on the last
occasion or studying the form
of ceremonial then used will
realise that for all its dignity the
service was wholly English and
traditional, suited to the time of
Edward VI, to the peerage and
pageantry of those days, but
irrelevant to the head of the
present Commonwealth or to the
life and problems of the 20th
century.
“The few changes made since
Tudor times merely emphasise
its domestic character. Every
new English diocese sends its
bishop into the sanctuary ; every
most recent English peer takes
part in the act of homage. The
Moderator of the Church of
Scotland, the Metropolitans of
the great Dominions, the Prime
Ministers and leaders of the
Commonwealth have no status
or recognition.
“No one would wish to press
for a number of coronations or
to destroy the main structure of
the service ; but it could easily be
made both more worthy of our
sovereign and her people, and
more sincere and impressive, if
its tradition was freed from
mere antiquarianism and its
scope enlarged to the propor-
tions of today.
“A repetition of the service of
1937 would ill requite the
passionate loyalty of our fellow-
subjects overseas. Their
sacrifices for our late King have
surely earned them some share
in the hallowing of his
successor.”
J. Bull Gets the
Crumbs.
“Always America will put up
trade barriers against British
imports the moment these im-
ports begin seriously to impinge
on the trade of the American
domestic producer.”
Not, adds London “Daily Ex-
press,” that the Americans are
to be blamed for protecting their
own industries: “But the result
of their protection is that at the
best of times Britain can count
only on what prosperity America
has to share.
“And at the worst of times?
Why then Britain would starve.
“What is the answer? It is to
base British economic policy on
something less transitory than
the whims and caprices of the
American market.
“Why should Britain be sub-
jected to an economic crisis
once a year—even if we survive
as we now are doing? Why not
go out for markets that will be
permanent and stable?
“The markets are at hand —
in the Commonwealth and
Empire.”
Presidential Hurdles.
Wash ington correspondent
Robert Waithman, in London
“Spectator,” calls it “one of the
political facts of life” that pro-
claimed Democrats today out-
number proclaimed Republicans.
Hence, in the Presidential elec-
tion, “The Republicans can win
only if, when all the circum-
stances, including the personal
appeal of the respective candi-
dates, have been taken into con-
sideration, the argument that a
change is desirable can be made
irresistible to some millions of
Americans outside the Re-
publican party.”
Republican or Democrat, the
next President could find the
going extra-tough. Looking
into the crystal-bowl “U.S. News
and World Report” sees a few
distractions for him:
“War, very probably, will be
inherited by whoever takes over.
Business troubles and deficits
and debt will bother the new
President.
“Taxes are a headache now.
Farm problems are coming back.
Strike problems appear to be
growing. Unemployment is in
sight for some period in the new
Administration.”
In fact, “The country is
drifting into something of a stew.
It’s drifted for quite a number
of years, as the next President
will discover.”
Dragnet Digest.
Watch That Line, Comrades.
—New York “Herald Tribune”
observes a happy coincidence;
“Virtually every major change in
New York “Herald Tribune.”
BACK TO THE GOOD OLD DAYS.
the Communist-party line is
accompanied by a purge of Red
officials somewhere in the
world.”
J. Bull’s Two Uncles. —From
an avuncular dissertation in
London “Financial Times”:
“John Bull has two uncles, Sam
and Joe. As uncles sometimes
do, they hate each other. Our
Uncle Sam is the most kindly
and generous man the world has
known. Uncle Joe is the embodi-
ment of all that is harsh and
grasping. These two uncles have
a common trait; they lust to
interfere in our affairs.”
Irked Corns. “Christian
Science Monitor” commentator
Roscoe Drummond, on the
Corns’ screams of fury over the
West’s growing strength; “This
is not a calamity ; this is evidence
that Western policy is reaching
the mark. The Communists are
never furious at weakness in
others ; they love it.”
Joe’s Risk. London
“Observer,” on one of Moscow’s
current threats: “The creation of
a conscript army in East
Germany would put arms into
the hands of the most deadly
enemies of the East German
puppet regime, the people of
East Germany.”
Cold-war Weather Forecast. —
London correspondent of New
York “Herald Tribune,” quoting
British and European “political
scientists”; “The cold war is
generally expected to get hot
again during the coming summer
months If they are to hold
fast, it appears that the Euro-
peans will have to sweat out one
of the worst political summers
in years.”
No U.S. Depression. —London
“Financial Times” corres-
pondent, reporting from Wash-
ington; “U.S. Government
economists, who have recently
been exchanging views on long-
term prospects, find themselves
in pretty general agreement in
forecasting that there will be no
big depression or even serious
recession with intolerable
unemployment in 1953 and
1954.”
A Turn for Marx. —Fitzroy
Maclean, British M.P., in
London “Sunday Times”: “The
things the Russians have done in
the name of world revolution
and world Communism would
make Karl Marx turn in his
grave.”
Omar Bradley, Boss. —“U.S.
News and World Report” rank-
ing: “General Omar Bradley,
chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, now is undis-
puted boss of U.S. military com-
mand both at home and abroad.
The Bradley power rose in the
Asiatic theatre when MacArthur
was removed. It now dominates
American policy in Europe with
replacement of Eisenhower by
Ridgway, a Bradley man.”
Potted De Gaulle. —From a
report by London “Economist’s”
Paris correspondent; “Future
historians who have to estimate
the place in history of General
de Gaulle will agree that the
peculiar vigor of his mind was
one of his main characteristics.
They will be divided between
those who think it was his
principal merit and those who
consider it reduced his useful-
ness to almost nothing.”
Strings to U.S. Aid.— An
American Ambassador having,
on behalf of the U.S. Govern-
ment, taken an active and
public part in Greece’s internal
politics, “U.S. News and World
Report” abruptly, comments:
“Question thus raised is whether
dollar aid to a country gives
the U.S. the right to try to run
things in that country. The
Greek case of intervention by
the U.S. could become a prece-
dent to be applied to other
countries receiving U.S. aid.”
Churchill Today. Pen-
portrait by the editor of “York-
shire Post”: “When I saw Mr.
Churchill in the House recently
he looked what he is—a Grand
Old Man, towering in easy
strength over his critics. The
qualities that served him so well
during the war seemed
undiminished. He faces every
problem with indomitable
vitality, just a£ he faced a great
range of problems in his Dundee
speeches before the First World
War. He scores continually.
Who is there to match him in
Parliamentary skill?”
School Television. —An experi-
mental programme of television
in schools in Britain included
studio presentation of laboratory
experiments and demonstra-
tions ; use of animated diagrams
and photomicrography; and
presentation of films in many
ways, such as presentation by a
traveller who made the film, or
by a commentator on current
affairs.
Textiles in Trouble. — Edin-
burgh “Scotsman,” indicating
that not only Lancashire is feel-
ing the pinch: “Tire depression
in textiles is world-wide. Dutch
factories have been on short time
since last summer; Belgian
factories are working only about
one week in, four ; and Japanese
production has been cut to 60
per cent. Not only have
countries, such as Pakistan,
which before the war were large
importers, set up their own
textile industries, but it seems
that the Japanese especially, in
their post-war rehabilitation
schemes, seriously overestimated
potential world demand.”


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
r«
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO STANISLAUS SAMUEL MADIGAN
late of Wagga.— I TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY MARY MADIGAN has filed
her Petition in Divorce No. 1359 of 1952
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 22nd day of September 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CHRISTOPHER LIGUORI
SHEEHY, Solicitor, 76 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN HYDE formerly of
Yallourn Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARY ELIZABETH HYDE has filed a
Petition No. 1851 of 1952 for Divorce on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 29th
September 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from F. W.
REILLY, Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH CLOUGH late of Park Road
Mascot.—TAKE NOTICE that RAYMOND
JOHN SHARPE has filed a Petition No.
2219 of 1951 praying for Divorce from
EDITH GEORGINA SHARPE on the
ground of her adultery with you If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 23rd
September 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ALFRED
ROFE & SONS, Solicitors, of 16-18
O’Connell Street, Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN.
Registrar,
Personal and Missing Friends.
KIMBERO
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of
any members of the KIMBERG
family, who lived jn Estonia about
1875, kindly communicate with
T. J. PURCELL,
Solicitor,
of 66 Kang St., SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
I, TOM KELBMAN, Stateless, formerly
Hungarian nationality, born at Budapest,
Hungary, resident five years in Australia,
now residing at 433 Maroubra Road,
Maroubra, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act. 1948.
WHSI
“If you ask me, shortages hit hardest
at the man who wants the best
When you find it hard to come
by some WHITE HORSE
WHISKY, reflect that its quality
was never finer than now.
m
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"NED KELLY."
Canberra Repertory lapsed
badly with its production of
Douglas Stewart’s “Ned Kelly”
at the Albert Hall. Apart from
Ken Rogers as Joe Byrne, Ralph
Wilson as a rather crude but at
times enormously dramatic
Aaron Sherritt, and George
Hunter as a convincing Bracken,
the performance rarely rose
above average.
The difficulties of the play
were certainly accentuated by
this production of it. There is a
conflict, which seems never to
have been completely resolved in
the author’s mind, between the
historical facts and what he
wishes to make of them —what
he wishes to take this occasion
of saying.
Stewart has some profound
ahd valuable and true things to
say about Australia, about the
“idea” of the country ; and it is
true that the life and career of
the Kellys can be fitted into this
conception, that they do embody
certain important aspects of that
“idea.” But there are some parts
of their actual story which are
hard to fit into this quite legiti-
mately ideal conception.
The trouble is, I think, that the
dramatist is too honest with the
facts, too fair to select his
material and so bias us in the
way he quite properly wants. He
tries to fob us off with Joe
Byrne, but that will not do ; it
is Ned, the leader, that we must
face up to, Ned that the
dramatist must make up his mind
about. In the end we can’t go
with him if he insists on remind-
ing us of Stringybark Creek, ori
hammering home the fact that
the Glenrowan plan was mass
murder contrived by a maniac.
Somewhere between the two
extremes of sentimental heroics
and cynical disillusionment lies
the poetic, the dramatic truth
about the Kellys, about what
they were and about what their
story can say to us. Stewart has
the poetry, but he has not quite
told the truth he knows. Perhaps
it will only be told when we
have history more at our mercy.
F.M.T.
Templeton.
Alec Templeton must surely
be the only specimen in cap-
tivity of homo concert-plat-
formus in possession of a dual
personality. With a gravity of
demeanor that one might mis-
take for his normal habit he pro-
ceeds with his first-half pro-
gramme of classical numbers.
These are shrewdly chosen, and
some have to be chased up side-
lanes far from the broad musi-
cal highway. Such a one, for
instance, as the Prelude from
“Alceste,” by the 17th-century
French composer Lully, which
starts with majestic pomp, then
condescends to do a dainty
dance; and Couperin’s “Souer
Monique,” another captivating
example of 17th-century Gallic
lyricism.
Then back on the highway
with Bach’s great “Chromatic
Fantasy and Fugue,” with a
brake on the tempo to allow the
interweaving strands of the
Fugue greater clarity; some
Chopin; a soupson of Debussy
and a spot of Richard Strauss.
Then the njask of seriousness
is flung aside and Momus
mounts the stool. Scarlatti, that
17th-century Italian master,
transferred, sonata form and all,
to conga rhythm; “Oh, Star of
Eve,” as sung at the Metropoli-
tan by A 1 Jolson ; an amateur
Gilsullivan Co. doing “Pinafore”
with a cranky orchestra off both
pitch and beat; and some amaz-
ingly clever improvisations—
Templeton could improvise on a
cat fight or a willy-willy—com-
prised well-spiced fare guaran-
teed to rejuvenate the appetite
of the jaded concertgoer.
"Swan Lake."
The National Ballet Co.’s per-
formance at Sydney Tiv. of the
four acts of Tschaikowsky’s
“Swan Lake” had to rise above
some orchestral shortcomings,
which it did. Lynne Golding, a
compactly-figured prima bal-
lerina of fine fluency, knew
exactly what the dual roles of
Odette and Odile call for;
above all, she has the ability to
finish off each movement with
precision, grace and sureness. In
Henry Danton she has a partner
who added to the requirements
of a princely bearing the intelli-
gent appreciation that disposi-
tions of his hands are only
slightly less important than those
of his feet. The consequence
was that there was always poetry
in his movements and never just
dull prose.
Leon Kellaway swung his art
from the aged tutor to the
Prince —a neat piece of charac-
terisation —to the Evil Genius
menacing at the lakeside and
suave in the ballroom.
With the serenity and aplomb
of a virtuoso three times his age
Michael Rabin has been demon-
strating to Sydney audiences just
how ridiculously easy it is to bow
and finger one’s way through the
staggering couplexities of the
Chaconne from Bach’s unaccom-
panied Partita in D' Minor, and
some of the' 24 of Paganini’s
Caprices which together exhaust
every technical possibility of the
instrument. The Chaconne in
parts was taken at a slower pace
than as performed by Isaac Stern
and Ginette Neyeu ; this threw
into clearer relief the ground
bass over which the 33 variations
are built.
Elena Nikolaidi, the Greek
contralto, continued last week
to charm audiences at Mel-
bourne Town Hall with her
mixture of warm tones, strong
dramatic feeling and intense
emotion. Her singing of the
songs from Schumann’s
“Woman’s Life and Love’Ccycle
made one think of Lottie Leh-
mann, but the humor she dis-
played in Debussy’s “Mando-
line” made one think of nobody
but Nikolaidi.
* * * *
Burl Ives gave four Queens-
land exhibitions of his min-
strelsy. Best in the casual
American folksongs from his
encyclopaedic grandmother, he
couldn’t make much of the stark
tragedy of the. Irish “Brennan
on the Moor,” and his versions
of the old English and Scottish
ballads had mellowed in the
Kentucky woods beyond recog-
nition, particularly after one has
heard Thea Rowe sing them.
♦ * * ♦
Maurice Baring said that
Moliere is never better acted
than by schoolboys. Certainly
the Toowoomba Grammar
School Dramatic Society’s per-
formance missed none of the
many laughs in “The Miser,”
and added a few because of their
need to return to the Elizabethan
custom of boys in the female
roles. The main cause for suc-
cess was young George Roubi-
cek’s understanding and mastery
of the title role. He went
beyond the obvious comedy
arising from the character’s
avarice and was able to evoke
sympathy* for the miser in his
defeat. Throughout, he used
gesture and voice with an intel-
ligence many a more adult player
might well envy.
Art.
Queensland National Gallery
selected probably the best from
the show of Arthur Boyd’s pic-
tures at Princes Gallery, Mel-
bourne, in “Burning Wheat
Stubble.” Mr. Boyd is sensitive
to landscape, and the painting
gives back the effect of the hard
dry Australian paddock and the
soft sky admirably. He is not
so sensitive to ( figures. The
figure of the stockman in “The
Stockman,” who is apparently
struggling with a diminutive
wild bull, the drover’s wife in
another picture, the crows and
the rams, which seem to have no
relationship to their environ-
ment, in others, aren’t realised
in the same way and look
incongruous.
* * * *
The most attractive of Tempe
Manning’s canvases at the
Lower Kozminsky Gallery in
Melbourne are “Wamberal,
N.5.W.,” in which a dim fore-
ground and a stretch of water
catching the last of the sky’s
reflections look soft and invit-
ing, and “Frost and Fog,” a deli-
cate affair of mist and cloud. In
these nature has done most of
the work by eliminating the de-
tail that the artist finds difficult
to resolve in pictures like “The
Mounting Enclosure,” a busy
study of horses, jockeys and
trainers at an N.S.W. racing
stable.
Latest Australian Books
Obtainable from All Recognised Booksellers
BEATTY, Bill. Unique to Australia.
Australia’s unique natural features. 74 x 5. 112 pages. 56
must. Clotti binding, Ure Smith Pty. Ltd., Sydney.. 13/9.
BERNDT, Ronald and Catherine. From Black to White in South.
Australia.
A chapter in Australian social anthropology. 84 x 54- 313 pages.
5 must. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire, Melbourne. 37/6.
BOYD, Robin. Australia’s Home: Its Origins , Builders ana
Occupiers.
The small house, 1788-1952. 85 x 51. 287 pages. 18 plates; 19
figures. Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press, Carlton,
Victoria. 25/-.
BUCKMASTER, Ernest, The Art of Ernest Buckmaster.
Art book with Autobiography. 95 x 74- 54 pages. 19 four-color
plates, 15 two-tone plates. Cloth binding, with board slipcase.
Lothian Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd.. Melbourne. £4/4/-.
COCKING, Thelma. Tales From the Secret Bushland.
Juvenile. 74 x s*. 92 pages. 19 line drawings. Paper boards.
Australasian Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 5/9.
COX, Helen May. Hostess Cook Book.
For the lone-hand hostess. 94 x 6. 278 pages. 4 colored, 24 b./w.
illust. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 25/-,
DEVANEY, James. Poetry in Our Time.
A review of contemporary values. 85 x 54. xiii, 114 pages. Cloth
binding. Melbourne University Press, Carlton, Victoria. 10/fa.
FARWELL, George. The Outside Track.
Vivid commentaries on the Australian scene. 85 x 54- 187 pages.
15 plates. Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press, Carlton,
Victoria. 12/6.
FLATTELY, Stan. The Australian Snow Pictorial.
Descriptive text with pictures of Australian snowflelds. Hi
x 9. 96 pages. 118 illust. and 1 map. Cloth binding.
Georgian House, Melbourne. 25/-.
FOWLER, Helen Marjorie. The Shades Will Not Vanish.
A novel. 85 x s*. 248 pages. Cloth binding. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-. .
HILL, Ernestine. Water Into Gold. Ninth edition, revised.
History of Mallee irrigation. 9 x 55- 334 pages. 49 illust. and
end-paper map. Cloth binding. Robertson & Mullens Ltd.,
Melbourne. 21/-.
HUNGERFORD, Thomas A. G. The Ridge and the River.
A novel. 85 x 54. 220 pages. Cloth binding. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
HURLEY, Frank. The Blue Mountains and Jenolan Caves.
A camera study with descriptive text. 104 x 8. 116 pages. 78
camera studies. Quarter cloth binding. Angus & Robertson
Ltd., Sydney. 25/-. • , „ ,
McKENZIE, Mrs. F. V. The All-Electric Cookery Book.
85 x SJ. 256 pages. 30 illust. Boards. Associated General
Publications Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 8/6. . , . .
McKEOWN, Keith C. Australian Spiders—Their Lives and
Habits.
Popular guide book. 85 x 54- 274 pages. 43 illust. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd,, Sydney. 21/-.
MOVES, A. G. With the West Indies in Australia, 1951-SZ.
A record of the recent cricket tour. 85 x 5. 180 pages. 15
illust. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 18/6.
NICHOLLS, W. H. Orchids of Australia, Part 11.
Descriptive botanical text with colored plates. 14 x 10. 96 pages.
24 colored plates. Paper wrappers. Georgian House, Melbourne.
£7/10/-.
O’BRIEN, John. On Darlinghurst Hill.
Story of Roman Catholic Parish. 74 x 5. 96 pages. 50 illust.
Paper boards. Ure Smith Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 12/6.
ORCHARD, W. Arundel, Mus. Doc. Music in Australia.
More than 150 years of musical development. 85 x s|. 256 pages.
23 illust. Cloth binding. Georgian House, Melbourne. 30/-.
“PETER,” Dr., M. 8., Ch.M. Diary of a Doctor.
Medical. 85 x sf. 164 pages. Paper boards. Robertson &
Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 16/-.
SHARLAND, Michael. Stones of a Century.
Historical places and architectural gems in Tasmania. Hi x 9.
74 pages. Over 100 illust. Cloth binding. Oldham Beddome &
Meredith, Hobart. 30/-.
STRETTON, J. D. Modern Dance Steps.
Dancing instruction. 7J x 45. 38 pages. 10 illust. Paper cover.
Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 3/-.
TOPHAM, George. Be Your Own Builder.
Practical. 11 x 84. 114 pages. 71 illust. Paper boards.
Associated General Publications Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 15/-.
TRIEBEL, L. A., M.A., D.Litt. Facets of France and French
Literature.
Educational. 7| x 5. 267 pages. Cloth binding. Australasian
Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 10/6.
WHYTE, William Farmer. The Australian Parliamentary
Handbook.
A guide to Australian Parliaments. 85 x 5. 338 pages. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 42/-.
YEP YUNG HEE. Chinese Recipes for Home Cooking.
Cookery book. 75 x 5. 96 pages. Boards. Associated General
Publications Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 10/6.
The Australian Book Publishers ’ Association


THIS BOOKLET
ON REQUEST
2-
« a
zni
i*EC
"Too
TRV
S^E S
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
'Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UTBB
To help you and yours
Save worry about Wills
r)0 you know; when, how and why a Will
should be made or revised? —that there are
dangers in “home-made” Wills, and that you
should always consult your solicitor? —that
marriage usually revokes a Will?
This booklet explains in simple language important
facts about Wills that vitally affect your Estate
and the welfare of your dependants. It tells of
Executors’ responsibilities and how these may be
simplified ... of Trusts and what they involve
... of how you can safeguard the security of your
affairs at a moderate cost.
Write, phone or call for your copy now, without
cost or obligation.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Consolidated Zinc Corp., Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
(after eliminating 1 outside interests).
, Dividends N
Pref. Ord.* To Re- Re-
uec.. Profit. 4J p.c. 12J p.c. serves. serves.-)-
£ £ £ * £ £
’49 938,5721 43,023 450,172 .445,377 3,216,714
From subsidiary tax reserves,
etc -» £397,856 3,614,570
50.-1,429,680 110,796 434,824 884,060 4,498,630
Intangibles written off, £350,420 . . 4,148,210
Proceeds sale assets, £135,889 .. 4,284,099
20 p.c.
01. . 2,404,708 105,760 687,535 1,611,413 5,895,512
Kate is declared rate, but amount is shown less
„ income tax. f Excludes specific provisions,
£1,596,602 81/12/’5l. J Excludes three months’
pre-acquisition profits (£288,547) subsidiaries.
To put into focus this widespread and
integrated London-controlled group of
mining, smelting and ancillary interests
it is first necessary to list the principal
operating subsidiaries and their ramifica-
tions. They are in Australia ; Zinc Corp.
(lead-zinc mining at the Barrier); Sulphide
Corp. (which turns out sulphuric acid,
superphosphate and cement at Cockle
Creek,near Newcastle); B.H. Corp. (which
has a 50 p.c. interest in B.H. Associated
Smelters at Port Pirie, and 32 p.c. interest
in New B.H. Consolidated, which adjoins
Zinc Corp, at the Barrier); and Consoli-
dated Zinc Pty. (which owns five small
offshoots interested in sawmilling, treat-
ment of beach sands, electric-power pro-
duction and search for new mineral
deposits). In Britain : Imperial Smelting
Corp., which owns all the issued capital
in National Smelting Corp., operating
zinc roasters, smelters and sulphuric-acid
plants at Avonmouth, Swansea, Seaton
Carew and Newport. The National co.
is also interested in a string of subsidiary
and associated concerns.
The earnings of individual units are
tabulated in the parent (holding) co.’s
accounts, but biggest contributors to the
pool are Zinc Corp., Imperial Smelting
and B.H. Corp. For the most part profits
are the combined result of the levels of
metal prices, output and costs. Chief
factor responsible for the leap of
£975,028 in net earnings of the group
last year was the rise in metal prices. A
strong demand continued for smelted and
processed products, selling-prices of which
advanced more or less in line with raw-
material and production costs. London
prices (average) for lead and zinc moved
in this way:
Lead. Zinc.
Stg. Stg.
12 months 1950 .. £lOB 1 11 £ll9 7 1
12 months 1951 .. 163 13 4 171 15 3
Jan., 1952 .. .. 176 5 5 190 0 0
April, 1952 .. .. 164 10 0 190 0 0
June, 1952 .. .. 132 14 0 136 0 0
July 15, 1952 .. .. 138 10 0 130 0 0
The Australian fixed price for both metals
has been steady at £A6S per ton since
Sept., 1950. The recent sharp drop in
overseas prices was due to a combination
of technical factors and change in
outlook.
The £2,404,708 of group profit was
written after allowing £701,318 (up
£115,722) for depreciation and no less
than £4,483,113 (up £1,471,694) for taxa-
tion. It covered the holding co.’s pref.
div. (£105,760) and 35.1 p.c. on its
£6,547,947 of ord. capital as against
20.1 p.c. for the previous term. That
excludes a profit of £135,889 on sale of
assets, which was placed direct to reserves.
The allowance for depreciation was in
excess of requirements on the basis of
original cost, because of the steep rise in
the cost of replacement and a heavy capital
expenditure programme ahead. Official
assessment of unrealised zinc concen-
trates (in the books at cost or under)
helped to bump up the tax provision.
The gross rate of ord. div. was lifted from
2s. 6d. (12! P-c.) to 4s. per share (20 p.c.),
subject to U.K. income tax of 9s. 6d. in
the £, which makes 20 p.c. worth only
10! P-c. stg., equal to 13! p.c. in Aus-
tralian currency at the current rate of
exchange.
The next table illustrates the growth
of the big undertaking from another
angle, as well as the comfortable state of
the finances:
Consolidated Accounts.
1949. 1950. 1951.
£stg. £stg. £stg.
Paid capital .. £11,023,008 £11,024,573 £11,024,573
Specific reserves 1,558,480 1,424,162 1,596,602
Outside interests* 2,356,106 2,269,729 2,360,581
Debentures . . 1,000,000 1,080,000 1,080,000
Sundry creditors,
etc. . . . . 2,382,242 3,284,592 4,429,537
Tax provisions 4,585,551 5,073,332 7,672,040
Final divs. ( . . 493,195 490,223 740,415
Mine property 4,225,000 4,224.372 4,224,372
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . .. 5,541,391 6,585,806 7,398,959
Trade invest-
ments . . 4,337,690 4,251,294 3,735,234
Stocks . . 3,563,246 3,883,648 5,952,605
Book debts .. 2,760,110 4,717,294 5,309,759
Cash, etc. .. 5,588,631 5,132,348 8,178,331
Intangibles . , 356,228 350,420
* Outside shareholders’ interests.
Mine properties include one of the
biggest lead-zinc mines at the Barrier
(N.S.W.), three barytes properties in
Britain and rutile and zircon leases on
Stradbroke Island (Q.). On freeholds
and plant £813,153 more was spent
than was written off. The heavy
growth in stocks (up £2,068,957)
was largely the result of higher
prices and accumulation of zinc
concentrates at the Barrier, owing to
transport difficulties. Expanding trade
activities, etc., sent debtors’ balances up
by £592,465. The big addition to cash,
etc. (up £3,045,983) reflects the heavier
provision for taxation and more profitable
trading.
The outlook for the group is one of
continued expansion, especially in con-
nection with new smelting processes and
acid manufacture in Britain. At Cockle
Creek (N.S.W.) a new contact-acid plant
is to be erected to burn pyrites (now
drawn largely from Mt, Morgan), and
the outputs of superphosphate and cement
are to be stepped up, too. When the
books closed capital commitments totalled
£1,279,000, and there was more than
enough cash, etc., in hand to meet the
outlay.
Although world markets for lead and
zinc now present a very different picture
than they did a year ago, prices are
expected to remain around present levels,
which are still highly profitable, for some
time. On the Australian market the £1
ords. are priced at 335, 3d. (455. a year
ago) to return 7.9 p.c. on the basis of last
term’s distribution, and with taxation and
exchange as they are.
Swallow & Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
✓—* Dividends N To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1946.. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 18,000 35,523 224,617
To staff fund, £5OOO 219,617
Deferred expenditure, £1657 .. .. 217,960
1947.-65,664 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 41,664 259,624
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 254,624
Deferred expenditure, £2158 .. .. 252,471
1948.. 65.910 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 41,910 294,381
To staff fund, £5500 288,881
From tatx reserve, £22,018 .. .. 310,899
Reduction reserves, £2371 .. ..308,528
1949.. 60.377 8 p.c.. 8 p.c. 24,000 36,377 344,905
To staff fund, £5500 . . . . . . 339,405
Deferred expenditure, £lOB6 .. .. 338,319
1950. .62,475 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 38,475 376,794
To staff fund, £5500 371,294
Sale assets, £1305 .. .. .. 372,599
Deferred expenditure, £1260 .. .. 371,339
1951. .97,890 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 67,890 439,229
To staff fund, £5500 433,729
Tax arrears, £7848 . . . . .. 425,881
Net proceeds sale assets, £3255 .. 429,136
Deferred expenditure, £1973 .. .. 427,163
1951. .58,427 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 28,427 455,590
To staff fund, £4500 .. .. .. 451,090
Reserves subject to £42,393 of goodwill at 30/47’52.
The sharp contraction of £39,463 in
last term’s combined net earnings of this
co. and its three subsidiaries disappointed
the market. Although the div. remained
steady, the price of the 30s. ords. paid to
20s. each, which had come down from
545. 2d. a year ago to 38s. 6d. at end
June last, fell to 31s. 6d. following pub-
lication of the accounts. The return at
31s. 6d. is 6.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis the f.-p. £1 prefs. at
325. (545. 9d. a year ago) yield 6.2 p.c. —
there are 100,000 of them in a paid capi-
tal of £300,000, and they enjoy priority
as to capital and advance with the ords.
in any distribution beyond 6 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £7 Is. 6d.
prefs. and 60s. Id. ords.
The trouble occurred in the sub-
sidiaries, mainly the Ice Cream Co. The
parent, which makes biscuits, cakes and
plum-puddings, earned £3817 more profit
at £40,904. Returns from bigger pro-
duction and sales, following installation
of an auxiliary gas plant—gas is the chief
baking fuel —more than offset the ad-
vance in operating and other costs,
including taxation.
The curtain is kept drawn over the
figures of individual offshoots. Net earn-
ings of the Ice Cream Co., which had a
“most successful year” in the previous
term, were “sharply” reduced, partly by
less favorable seasonal conditions, but
mainly by higher costs. The new Tas-
manian biscuit-manufacturing subsidiary,
C. D. Haywood Pty., Ltd., has installed
additional plant, and is reported to be
making “satisfactory progress.” The
whole of the issued capital in this co.
was bought by the parent during the
previous year, when the holding in sub-
sidiaries (now £121,782) increased by
£93,775, and a goodwill item of £42,393
showed up in the consolidated accounts.
The other small offshoot, which turns
out dehydrated fruit and vegetables, has
never been much of a contributor to the
pool.
Combined gross profit showed an im-
provement of £19,005:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Gross earnings £328,004 £320,648 £458,872 £477,377
Exes.* .. 267,627 258,173 360,482 418,950
Net .. £60.377 £62,475 £97,890 £58,427
* Includes provision for depreciation and taxation.
Including allowances for depreciation
(£34,664, down £1733) and taxation
(£68,370, up £11,683), exes, were £58,468
heavier. They made off with 87.8 p.c. of
the gross profit as against 78.6 p.c. and
80.5 p.c. for the two preceding years. The
£58,427 of profit was 19.4 p.c. on capital
(pref. and ord. combined) compared with
32.6, 20.8, 20.1, 21.9 and 21.8 p.c. back
to 1947. The distribution, which was
lifted from an all-round 8 p.c. to 10 p.c.
in the previous year, was maintained at
the higher rate, of which 3 p.c. is called
bonus. So nearly half the year’s profit
was ploughed back into the business, lift-
ing reserves —they are subject to the
intangibles already referred to —£151,090
higher than paid capital. To cover 10
p.c. on capital alone net-tangible share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined, less goodwill) need turn in only
4.3 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures reflect expansion,
mainly of the biscuit-manufacturing
section, as well as a healthy financial
position:
Consolidated Figures.
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Creditors .. 111,548 112,783 111,812 188,810
Tax reserve.. 48,878 38,992 66,108 78,725
Final divs. .. 15,000 15,000 19,500 19,500
Freeholds . . 102,913 114,759 155,451 183,789
Plant, etc. .. 132,403 143,460 175,823 225,718
Stocks .. 111,091 133.342 178,176 207,490
Debtors .. 107,566 131,659 155,071 207,831
Cash. etc. . . 360,857 314,959 224,236 170,905
Goodwill . . 42,393 42,393
To meet the year’s addition of £28,338 to
freeholds, £49,895 to plant, £29,314 to
stocks and £52,760 to book debts the co.
went outside for only £76,998 and drew
upon cash, etc., for £53,331.
Although net earnings may shrink
further yet, prospects for maintenance of
the 10 p.c. distribution for the current
term are far from discouraging. The co.
is in a very much stronger position,
financially and otherwise, than it was
during the between-wars period.
Moulded Products (A/asia), Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)
Dividends N
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit.* 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 12 p.c. serves, serves.*
& £> £» & £* £/
1917.. 42,466 1600 4,500 14,592 21,774 63,009
Share premiums, £83,736 .. 96,745
Unexplained addition, £250 . . . . 96,995
1948.. 33,007 1600 4,500 16,164 10,743 107,738
Sale fixed assets, £2275 .. .. 110,013
1949.. 44,583 1600 4,500 18,521 19,912 129,925
Writing off intangibles, £2041 .. 127,884
14 p.c.
1950.. 70,916 1600 6,145 30,440 32,731 160,615
Share premiums, £55,416 .. .. 216,031
Share-issue exes., £8172 .. .. 207,859
1951.. 95,748 1600 10,548 .51,985 31,615 239,474
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
This enterprising and well-handled
group—parent holding co. and 15
specialist and distributing subsidiaries—
is in the forefront of Australia’s infant
plastic-manufacturing industry, and has
Commonwealth-wide connections. Chief
products are plastic-covered wire and
cables, plastic electrical fittings, insulation
sheeting, radio cabinets, mouldings,
garden-hose and other flexible plastic
products, including coated-fabrics.
Since the public became interested in
1939 the business has enjoyed a sheltered
market, and its expansion has been rapid
and profitable during the post-war infla-
tionary period. Issued capital, which
advanced from £40,000 at the start to
£150,589 in 1945, had shot up to £771,875
at December 31, 1951. It consisted of
20.000 6-8 p.c. A and 253,125 5 p.c. B
prefs., all of £1 each, and 1,995,000 ss.
ords., and had the support and assistance
of £239,474 of reserves, as well as
£250,000 of cheap debenture money, cost-
ing on the average 4.15 p.c.
Of the debenture money £150,000,
carrying interest at 4£ p.c., was gathered
early in the last term, and in June, 1951,
84,375 B prefs. were put out at par and
665.000 ords. were issued at a premium
of 2s. 6d. each. The premiums received
(£55,416 net) were placed to reserve and
there was still £64,145 of the new ord.
capital to come when the books closed.
Profitable employment was quickly
found for all the new fixed capital and
more besides. Plant capacity and
efficiency increased, and so did produc-
tion and sales, which shot up by over
100 p.c. So, despite spiralling wage and
other costs, combined net earnings of the
group advanced by £24,832, reaching
£95,748. That was after allowing an extra
£24,661 for depreciation (£66,224) and an
additional £64,595 for taxation (£99,595).
The £95,748 was enough to meet pref.
requirements (£12,148) and show 22.5 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 29.1,
24.9, 19.9 and 29.5 p.c. back to 1947.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
9.4 p.c., so the pref.-share and debenture
moneys are earning more than their keep.
A 2 p.c. bonus was again sent out with
the 12 p.c. div., making 14 p.c. for the
year, the average distribution over the
last five years being 12.8 p.c.
The year’s net outlay on freeholds (up
£103,858), plant (up £92,174), stocks (up
£370,000) and book-debts (up £147,283)
totalled £713,315, of which shareholders
put up £255,625, debenture-holders
£150,000 and sundry creditors £158,806;
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £264,348 £264,348 £507,621 £707,730
Debentures . . 100,000 100,000 100,000 250,000
Creditors, etc. 181,305 389,765 566,609 725,415
Tax provision 49,131 46,760 54,411 133,288
Pinal divs. . . 13,134 18.854 23,498 38,798
Freeholds, etc. 81,933 91,593 103,833 207,691
Plant, etc. .. 140,283 225,579 298,970 391,144
Stocks . . 378,688 390,427 746,846 1,116,846
Debtors . . 110,240 183,0 7 3 2 3 5,40 7 8 8 2,690
Cash, shares, etc. 8,84 3 8,201 33,112 4,979
Stocks are the item which catches the
eye. They amount to 53 p.c. of total
assets, appear at a figure not exceeding
cost, and are partly an insurance against
still-scarce raw materials, portion of
which has to be imported.
The outlook for the industry is a mixed
one. Though demand for part of the
group’s products is losing some of its
former strength, for others it remains
strong, while import restrictions have set
a ceiling to supply of raw materials from
overseas. Subject to what happens in
connection with costs, especially wages,


gfg
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLKATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
■'National' Rotary Dupli
color will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
built entirety tn Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BKISBANB
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. . .Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
“THE SOCIETY OF
SECRETARIES OF
GREAT BRITAIN LTD.”
The Society for Private and
Company Secretaries. Desig-
nation “Qualified Secretary.”
Membership by Examination
or Professional Service.
Details from the Secretary,
9 Charles Street, NEWPORT,
MON., ENGLAND.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established ISIS.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C.- LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. C. C. GALE. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
fgf
g
f
gfd
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
S 1
vw
5
&
i
TIME
FOR
A
GAPS!
„,"""
*
THEY'RE
BLENDED BETTER
****
,»35D.6.52
★
CAPSTAN Special Mild
RED PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Wanted.
MICROSCOPE WANTED
By Medical Student.
Ring JX 3494, Sydney.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
COME TO ROMANTIC
{jlffa
’Vest-pocket"
wonderland
of the East
Magical, fascinating CEYLON
.. . strange land of contrasts,
where East meets West . . .
where the Old World “rubs
shoulders’’ with the New.
Ceylon is modern in its facilities
for rest and play and yet, so
strangely different in its pat-
tern of life that the tourist
never ceases to wonder at this
unique Eastern Jewel.
m
terns
•***
'
msm
/ <
Bill
ssasss*-^^
mm
The most colourful, most exciting
holiday you could wish for
As you travel through this magic Isle of Spices—by modern
railway or motor —you’ll begin to believe, as legend does, that
Ceylon is truly but forty miles from Paradise. All the glory of
the East . . . the colour and pageantry of Ceylonese festivals;
awe-inspiring ruins ... the fine flower of a civilisation 2,500
years old, midst a setting of rare tropical beauty, will make your
tour of Ceylon one you’ll remember all your life.
Plan now for your tour of Ceylon. Choice of
accommodation —luxury hotels or Ceylon’s famous
Resthouses (Tourist Inns). Sporting facilities
include trout fishing in Waltonian waters and deep
sea game fishing, shark-free surfing, golf, and the
famous Colombo Racecourse.
Further information, free maps and literature can he
obtained by writing to the CEYLON GOVERN-
MENT TOURIST BUREAU, or Travel Agents.
Shipping and Airlines in Australia.
gdf
Tours can be booked direct on all Registered Travel Agents through
the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau, free of commission.
CT.4.16
:
&PS.
mUSShi
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
It was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the little Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
, Every drop Distilled
\ and Blended in I
Scotland n
JW. 147.
ia
prospects of a satisfactory show-
ing at next balance are
encouraging. As time advances,
however, competition can be
expected to sharpen from both
local and overseas sources.
Uncertain as to what the
future holds, the market prices
the f.-p. ss. ords. at 11s. 6d.
(16s. 6d. a year ago) to return
6.1 p.c. on a 14 p.c. distribution,
or 5.2 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
The A prefs. at 255. 9d. and the
B’s at 18s. yield 6.2 p.c. and 5.6
p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover is £5O 1 Is. 4d. A’s,
78s. 4d. B’s, and 7s. sd. ords.
Motors, Ltd. (Adelaide)
Re-
April, Profits. , —Dividends—serves.
£ £ £
1947.. 5,770 5 p.c. = 3,750 12,283
Unexplained reduction, £3937.. 8,346
1948.. 14,818 124 p.c. = 11,250 11,914
1949.. 42,703 20 ~ „ 20,000.. 34,617
Unexplained addition, £336.. 34,953
1950.. 92,416 224 p.c. = 22.500 1 99,869
To staff fund, £5OOO . . S
1951.. 98,216 374 p.c. = 37,500 )
To staff fund. £7500 .. [-151,835
Other provisions, £1250 .. J
Underprovsn. taxation, £9156. .142,679
1952. .127,475 30 p.c. = 30,000 ]
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. [-229,904
Other provisions, £250 ..J
This little Adelaide co. holds
the South Australian franchises,
including Broken Hill, for
Morris, M.G., Rolls-Royce,
Bentley and Hudson-Terraplane
cars, Morris commercial
vehicles, Nuffield tractors and
Electrice refrigerators, etc. Be-
fore and during the war it
limped along, showing share-
holders an empty basket more
often than not. Eight out of
the 12 years to 1946 were dry
ones, divs. for the period averag-
ing only 2.8 p.c.
However, the dollar problem
and the post-war boom changed
the picture completely, and the
co.’s British agencies, which
include one of the best-selling
cars on the market, have become
money-spinners, as a glance at
the introductory table shows.
Last term the boom in the trade
reached its peak. When the
Canadian market was virtually
closed to British car-manufac-
turers a year or so ago more
engines and chassis were diverted
to Australia, where the English
Nuffield organisation (it recently
merged its interests with the big
Austin group) had erected a
body-building and assembly
plant at Victoria Park, Sydney,
to hasten deliveries to dealers.
The co.’s turnover increased
by 43 p.c., reaching a record
£3,580,000. Servicing and sales
of parts made a handsoine con-
tribution to earnings, too. After
setting aside £125,000 (up
£55,000) for taxation, the net
result was £29,259 stronger at
£127,475, equal to a juicy 127.4
p.c. on capital as against 98.2,
92.4, 42.7, 14.8 and 5.7 p.c. back
to 1947. But owing to the
change in outlook and the need
to conserve liquid resources the
div. was lowered from 37y p.c.
to 30 p.c., making the average
distribution for the last six years
21.2 p.c.; for the preceding six
years shareholders went hungry.
The year’s additions of
£263,377 in stocks —they appear
at the lower of cost or market-
value —and of £39,639 in
debtors’ balances were financed
from the co.’s own resources,
including tax provision:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Overdraft .. 82,815
Creditors and
deposits .. 85,215 174,950 175,600
Tax provision.. 96,600 73,849 168,006
Other provisions 1,792 12,033 8,837
Staff funds, etc. 5,000 16,250 11,132
Final divs. .. 12,500 25,000 17,500
Freeholds and
machinery, etc. 67,463 96,750 103,237
Stocks .. 364,046 195,844 459,221
Debtors . . 45,783 62,200 101,839
Cash & shares 10,000 199,123 46,682
The growth in freeholds, etc.
(up £6487), was due to purchase
of a property at Devon Park to
cope with expanding servicing
activities, etc.
The effects of the fall in
national income, tightening of
credit facilities and import re-
strictions upon the motor trade
to date —their full force has not
yet been felt —show up in new
car registrations. For May they
were about 20 p.c. below the
average for the September
quarter of 1951, which was
approximately the level for the
year to June 30, 1950. Falling
turnover and rising costs can, of
course, play havoc with profits.
Still, provided there is no sharp
drop in selling-prices, the ,co.
looks like winning satisfactory
results for the current term.
The scrip, covered by 655. lid.
in net tangibles, is tightly held.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
received at the Navy League Ball by. the
president of the ball committee, Mrs.
Arthur Laver, and by her introduced to
the members of the committee who
organised the ball. Decor included a
binnacle ancu wheel flanked by the Union
Jack and Australian flags; floral decora-
tions comprised poinsettias and holly-
leaves, and on the table in the official
enclosure was a large illuminated ship
made of white hydrangeas and daisies,
with funnels of yellow jonquils. Lady
Brooks wore a gown of champagne-toned
heavy satin, the full skirt falling from a
low-waisted bodice which had a folded
lichu outlining the shoulders. Mrs. R.
Nettlefold, wife of the president of the
Victorian branch of the Navy League,
wore oyster-toned satin, Mrs. Laver mush-
room nylon net, its strapless bodice en-
crusted with bronze sequins and pearls.
Lady Collins, who was in the official
party with her husband, Vice-Admiral
Sir John Collins, chose a biscuit-colored
wide-skirted tulle gown sprinkled with
gold sequins. Among members of the
committee were Mrs. Maurice Nicholas,
whose strapless gown of white tulle had
a bodice composed of upstanding ruffles ;
Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade, in a sheath
frock of black velvet with powder-blue
satin outlining the top of the bodice ; and
Mrs. Ken Guest, who wore a strapless
satin frock with godets of spangled black
tulle set into the skirt.
Cupid arranged another Australian-
American alliance when Miriam, oniy
daughter of the U.S. Military Attache,
Colonel Rufus Ramey, and Mrs. Ramey,
exchanged vows at the Toorak Presby-
terian Church with Reginald, younger son
of Mr. and Mrs. R. Williams, of Surrey
Hills. The bride wore a princess gown
of cream satin, which had been worn by
her sister-in-law, Mrs. Stanley M. Ramey,
of Washington. Made with long pointed
sleeves and a train, it had a sweetheart
neckline and with it she wore a veil of
Brussels lace lent by Mrs. Herbert Allen.
Her bouquet was of cream hyacinths and
gardenias. Mrs. Albert Rainey and the
bridegroom’s niece Pamela Williams were
in attendance. The matron-of-honor
carried a sheaf of pink blossom and
cream hyacinths, and her frock of blue
tulle had a bodice of blue-and-silver
lame. Cofin Williams, the ’groom’s
brother, was best man.
Over 150 guests attended the reception
at the Dorchester. Mrs. Ramey received
her guests wearing a teal-blue crepe frock,
a midnight-blue Scotch-mole jacket and
an ostrich-feathered black hat. Pastel-
blue flowers trimmed the small black hat
Mrs. Williams wore with a black frock
and fur coat. Among the guests were
Lieut.-General S. F. Rowell, Mrs. Rowell
and their daughter Rosslyn, Major-Gen.
F. Kingsley Norris and Mrs. Norris, the
U.S. Naval Attache, Capt. R. Wayne
Denbo, and his wife, the U.S. Army Air
Force Attache, Col. John Sullivan,
and Mrs. Sullivan, and the Assistant
Military Attache, Col. George Uhrich,
and Mrs. Uhrich. Mrs, Harry
Cavanaugh wore a mink jacket with
her black frock and tiny white
melusine pillbox hat. Mrs. Bruce Rose’s
crepe frock was powder-blue, her wide-
brimmed hat in the same toning. Mrs.
F. P. Callaghan covered her black frock
with a black Persian-lamb coat; her felt
cloche was raspberry-red. Mrs. W. W.
Killough’s tiny black hat matched her
black frock. Judy Lloyd had mink trim-
ming the square neckline and cuffs of
her black frock. Mary Draskin added a
white satin cap to her black Persian-
lamb coat. Betty Black’s gold faille frock
was self-patterned.
Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer, president
of the committee which arranged the
function, presented to Colonel Allan
Spowers a cheque for £2120 for the Vic-
torian Division of Red Cross ; this repre-
sented the proceeds from the film premiere
of “Kangaroo.” Others at Mrs. Myer’s
Toorak home to see the cheque handed
over were the deputy-president of the
committee, Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, Mrs.
Norman Shepherd, treasurer, Marion
McPherson, who with Heather Menzies
was ticket-secretary, and committee-
members Dame Mary Daly, Mesdames
Chester Guest, Ross Shelmerdine, Simon
Warrender, H. Creswick and Everard
Baillieu.
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
opened the new club-house of the Inter-
national Club of Victoria in Powlett-
street. East Melbourne. In introducing
the Governor the president of the club,
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, told how the club
had been inspired by the work done in
the New York International House. In
1933 a group of women in Melbourne
decided to form an International Club,
but the war suspended things. The same
group of women formed a branch of
Red Cross, but at the war’s end the
International Club was re-formed. Mrs.
H. Metes, of Denmark, and Mr. M. Pless,
from Czechoslovakia, were chosen from
club members to propose and second the
vote of thanks to the Governor.
Lady Brooks, in mink coat, black
frock and small black hat, accompanied
her husband. Mrs. Herbert Brookes
wore a junior-blue ensemble. Members
of the Consular Corps present included
U.S. Consul-General Henry Sfebbins and
Mrs. Stebbins, Chinese Consul Liu and
his wife, whose national costume was of
heavy dove-grey slipper-satin, and the
Consul for the Netherlands, Colonel F.
H. Wright, and Mrs. Wright, she in
junior-blue outfit and small white
melusine cloche. Elizabeth Anne Sprag-
gett, who accompanied Lady Brooks,
wore a forest-green wool coat and a
matching hat; Mrs. Gwen Hargrave,
secretary of the club, wore black with a
flower hat.
Plans are in hand for a dinner
and mannequin - parade at Menzies’
on August 22 to assist the Animal Wel-
fare League Lort Smith Hospital. Mrs.
Scobie Mackinnon is chairman of the
committee. Mrs. Lort Smith is founder
of the league and Lady Clapp is deputy-
chairman of the dinner-parade function.
Colonel Chisholm, of Khankoban, Upper
Murray, has presented the committee
with a yearling to sell. The parade of
spring fashions will come from the Le-
Louvre salon and will be arranged by
Lillian Wightman, and hats by La-
Motte, of Sydney, will be shown. Judy
Barraclough is coming from Sydney to
be one of the models, and Bambi
Shmith and Karen Scammefl will also be
on the job. Ticket-secretaries are Mrs.
Simon Warrender (U 4487) and Mrs.
Maurice Nathan (8J2282). Tickets are
two guineas each.
This is a study, by French artist Louis
Kahan, of Elena Nikolaidi, the great
Greek contralto who has had Melbourne
at her feet with her incomparable art.
At her first concert the singer looked
ravishing in a carbon-blue full-skirted
gown of nylon, the strapless bodice of
which was edged with stiffened ivory lace
in which diamente sparkled. With it she
wore a stole of carbon-blue nylon.
At the concert were the Lord Mayor,
Cr. O. J. Nilsen, his daughter, the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. John Inkster, and her
husband; they were with the Conrad
Charltons. Mrs. Derek Hartley, from
Kyneton, covered her sea-foam green
velvet frock with a full-length grey-
squirrel coat. Mrs. John Heath’s tent
coat was of vermilion-red velvet. A
former Consul for Greece, Mr. Nicolaides,
and his wife were in the audience. Mrs.
Frank Tait’s dyed-ermine coat was worn
over a black frock.
A “thank-you” party was held at
Kurneh, the South Yarra home of Sir
Norman and Lady Brookes, when the
final meeting of the recent combined
cocktail-party and mannequin-parade was
held. Lady Brookes said her work as
president of the committee had been made
light by the capacity for work and the
enthusiasm of the members. The organis-
ing secretary of the British Memorial
Fund disclosed that £6OO had been raised
from the function. Lady Brookes wore a
red angora frock. Lady Mighell’s wine-
red frock and coat were matched by her
felt cloche., Mrs. Len Buxton wore a
black-velvet-trimmed frock and small
black velvet hat Mrs. Geoffrey Grim-
wade gained contrast for her black suit
with a small cinnamon-brown tricorne
edged with dyed-ermine. Mrs. John
Groffin’s unusual coat was of large green,
blue and rose checks.
From Sydney
Just now, when winter is bitterest,
David Jones’ does us a service by decking
out its sixth floor in advance spring
clothes. The materials are the most
exciting part of the show. They come
mainly from Italy and Switzerland, and
include a chiffon shantung almost as fine
as an Indian sari, a crease-resisting Swiss
cotton as smooth as silk, heavy pique
and sleek pure silk.
There doesn’t seem to be any revolu-
tionary change in line. Skirts are full
and shoulders smooth, but sleeves get
elaborate ideas about themselves, bounc-
ing out in pleats, tucks and puffs below
the shoulderline. Waistlines wander
round a bit, uncertain whether to abide
by nature’s choice or creep up or down
a trifle. Pleats and tucks are everywhere.
So is black patent for accessories.
Favored colors are black and yellow
(together or apart), pale, pale-pink, white
and blue. A new note is the spencer
jacket which is made in fur, silk or
cotton.
Miss Billie Shaw (in the photo) plays
the part of Mary Gibbs in the Mosman
Musical Society’s “Our Miss Gibbs,”
which will be presented at the Mosman
Town Hall from July 25 to August 2.
Len Getting, whose productions of other
musical comedies for this society have
been so successful over the past three
years, is guiding and directing this per-
formance also. “Our Miss Gibbs” has
been revived on the Sydney stage twice
during the past 15 years with Cyril
Ritchard and Madge Elliott.
Mrs. J. W. Eaton has us guessing about
the mysterious floor-show to be put on
at the Navy League’s dinner-dance for
the Sea Cadet Corps at Prince's on July
28. It is to be a “short, short” show, says
Mrs. Eaton, and something quite unusual.
Assisting with the presentation is Lieut. -
Commander Alec Black, R.A.N. This
dinner-dance is being guided on its way
by Mrs. H. A. Showers, with Lady
Walder and Mrs. Eaton as vice-presidents.
Other members of the committee are
Mrs. R. Street, Estelle Rickards, Mrs.
F. C. Thompson, Nancy Houston, Mrs.
C. B. Wincott, Mrs. H. S. Burgin, Mrs.
J. H. D. Ward and Mrs. L. M. Hinch-
cliffe.
Selkirk Panton, the noted foreign-
correspondent who “has covered every
important assignment since Munich,”
spoke at the P.E.N. Club meeting on
Monday with much ease and fluency,
although he hadn’t come prepared to
speak, and did so extempore. His
reminiscences moved from the engage-
ment of Prince George and Princess
Marina to the memory of a Russian
youth on the Elbe singing “Tipperary”
as a love ballad, on to an
account of the hanging of the German
war-criminals, a picture of present-day
East and West Germany and a summing-
up of the implications of the American
political scene. Mr. Panton, who is
accompanied by his Hungarian wife, is
visiting his parents, the C. S. Pantons,
after an absence of 25 years. Members
of the P.E.N. Club greeting him were
Mrs. L, Lister, Lady Braddon, Nourma
Handford, Gwen Meredith, the Bruce
Webbers and Donald Shaw.
Brisbane is to see performances of the
National Opera; “Lohengrin,” “Lucia,”
“Don Giovanni” and the double bill
“Cavalleria Rusticana” and “Pagliacci,”
Beginning on Friday, August 8, at Her
Majesty’s Theatre, the season will run
for three weeks. Although this season
will cost £12,000, the National Opera
Company feels that it is worth while, not
only so that Brisbane people can hear
these lovely operas, but also so that the
artists should get all the experience pos-
sible. This is quite a courageous move,
as money is short; but if Brisbane people
patronise the operas they should be as
great a financial success as they were in
the recent Sydney season.
Overheard in George-street the other
day; “She went in as chaplain but they’ll
never make her a worshipful mistress.
She should have gone in as deputy mistress
at her age!” Now, what was that all
about?
The International Drama Festival,
which was so successful last year at
Sydney University, is to be repeated this
year, starting on July 21. Plays in
German, French, Greek, Italian and
English will be performed in the Union
Hall and the Wallace Theatre. As
Clytemnestra in the “Agamemnon,” to be
performed on July 26, is Freda Lesslie,
an arts graduate in Greek and history,
who will be remembered as the head of
the chorus in the “Frogs” of Aristophanes.
The English play to be presented on
August 2 is “The Importance of Being
Earnest.” Reservations are at Paling’s and
at the University Departments concerned.
Arriving in Sydney next week to com-
mence her song recitals is Dorothy
Maynor, the great negro soprano.
Described as “the epitome of serenity and
happiness,” Dorothy Maynor is a most
soothing person to meet. She seems to
be interested in all people and in many
things. The daughter of a Methodist
minister, she is the wife of a Presbyterian
clergyman in New York and loves cook-
ing or anything else to do with a house
—needlework so much that she travels
with a small sewing-machine so
that she can make her husband’s shirts
while on lour. She has a great love of
beauty in all its forms; in jewellery,
furniture, glassware and, above all, music.
From this keen appreciation of the
beautiful and her love of people (not
“humanity” but individual people) comes
that glowing warmth of personality that
is her own special charm.
Can nylon stockings be made ladder-
less? A group of indignant women are
demanding it; and, indeed, when nylon
first came in we all believed that ladder
troubles were over. Not so. The finer
nylon stockings seem to be just the most
vulnerable things made. The new mesh
stockings are a slight improvement, but
their habit of spontaneously breaking to
holes which do not run into ladders but
grow gradually larger and larger gives
one a general feeling of disintegration not
consistent with the greatest poise.
A recent release from the Savarin
gives us a moment in the life of the
maestro Michael Rabin, quite Russian in
its starkness and realism; “At luncheon
after rehearsal yesterday the chill weather
had boosted his appetite. He had enjoyed
the Hungarian goulash. The head-
waiter hovered to take the final order
The young virtuoso turned to his mother,
who had black coffee in mind for him,
and with the same tender appeal for
which he is so famous when he plays
Paganini, said, ‘Mother, just one ice-
cream, I am still hungry.’ ” How simple!
How real!
The current craze for heraldic emblems
as ornaments has some useful offshoots.
Noticed in a city store recently were belts
decorated with genuine sergeant-major’s
badges—possibly for the use of wives
who wish to strike terror into the hearts of
ex-Army husbands.
It is very disquieting to read that a
Sydney psychologist thinks pretty girls
usually have more brains than plain
ones. Not “as many,” but more. There
doesn’t seem to be any justice in the
world at all after that. Many pretty girls,
however, say the pussy cats, must use
their brains mainly to conceal the fact
that they possess them.
The Models and Photographers’ Ball,
which donates its proceeds to the Smith
Family, gathered together this year as
usual a group of Sydney’s most attractive-
looking girls. The models paraded at
midnight and from their number Valerie
May was chosen Top Model of the year.
Valerie, who is the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. R. A. May, of Waverley, an-
nounced just before the decision her en-
gagement to Brian Lumsden, who is the
youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. R. L.
Lumsden, also of Waverley.
Mrs. J. M. Gordon, of Windella, near
Burren Junction, and State president of
the Country Women’s Association, is at
present touring the Hunter River in her
strenuous round, in which she visits 22
towns in 21 days. She leaves for the North
Coast on July 21 and will attend the
International Day of Avoca branch on
July 30 and the twentieth anniversary of
Tuggerah branch on July 31. During
August she will attend the Far North West
Group’s conference, the Farmers’ and
Settlers’ conference and executive com-
mittee meetings from August 11 to
August 15. It’s an arduous business
being a president of the active C.WsA.I


PERSONAL ITEMS
H. G. Chesterman, who already owns
the title of captain through his command
of the Navigation Department’s light-
house-ship Cape Leeuwin, can now add
another rank —he having just got his
brass-hat and third, commander’s, ring, in
the Naval Reserve. One of the men
typified in Monsarrat’s The Cruel Sea,
Chesterman had command of a destroyer,
as well as frigates and corvettes in the
War II Atlantic. In 1943, when U-boat
packs were making their most desperate
effort to torpedo Britain’s lifeline, Chester-
man, in command of the corvette Snow-
Flake, put paid to two U-boats and had
a helpful hand in belting the life out of
a third. Now 35, he’s a cousin of Bris-
bane’s Resident Naval Officer, Com-
mander Henry Chesterman.
“Stweeler”: Captain Robert Max
Anderson, of Mildura, who is building a
series of dams across the Darling between
Wentworth and Menindie under contract
to the N.S.W. Government, has the river
in his blood. His grandfather, Captain
Robert Anderson, was a partner of W. R.
Randell, the pioneer of inland steam-
navigation in Australia, and his father,
Captain Robert Murray Anderson, skip-
pered his first steamer in the ’eighties,
moving to Mildura in 1910. Max’s father
once dammed the Darling, but for a dif-
ferent purpose from his son’s, Murray’s
steamer was held by low water at the
Seven-Mile Point, above Wentworth; he
had the crew build a brush weir two-
thirds of the way across the river to
narrow the channel and force it to scour
a passage. Max Anderson, who took over
the Mildura slip and the steamer Roth-
bury when his father died, as well as the
Anderson sawmills, has been associated
with river-steamers ever since, a lad of
10, he used to spend half the night stand-
ing outside in his pyjamas listening to
his father and other skippers yarning of
the early days on the Darling and
Murray. A cargo of timber he once towed
out of the Darling behind the Rothbury
is claimed to have been the heaviest load
ever to come out of the river,
A change in Australian representation
on the International Civil Aviation
Organisation Council, based in Montreal,
takes J. W. Stone over there to relieve
Dr. K. M., Schofield. Stone got his
combat knowhow squadron-leading in
War 11, winning D.F.C.; and learnt a
wrinkle or two about civil flying as post-
war superintendent with the Civil Avia-
tion Department. Schofield, a former
Rhodes Scholar, has been with 1.C.A.0.
for the past five years.
“Macnell”: Passed on in Toowoomba,
on the Queensland Downs, Montague
Gordon Charles Pasco, one-time Light-
horseman against Kruger and manager of
the Bank of Australasia in Toowoomba.
A great walker, Pasco once set off on a
bipedic jaunt from Toowoomba to Gee-
long, and on another occasion took a
stroll from his home to Crow’s Nest and
back, some 70 miles, in a day. Born just
over 90 years ago at Swan Hill (Vic.),
Pasco was distinguished, navally, in his
family connections. His father was a
senior officer in the Royal Navy; his
great-grandfather once wrote, in a pub
fished letter:
His Lordship came to me on the poop.
“Mr. Pasco, I wish to say to the fleet
‘England confides that every man will do
his duty’ ”; and he added, “You must be
quick, for I have one more to make, which
is for close action.” I replied, “If your
Lordship will permit me to substitute
expects for confides the signal will soon
be completed, because expects is in the
vocabulary, and confides must be spelt.”
His Lordship concurred in haste....
accordingly I hoisted the signal at the top-
gallant masthead, arid there it remained
until shot away.
His Lordship was, of course, Nelson, the
masthead belonged to the Victory, and
that Pasco was the flag-lieutenant; later
promoted to admiral.
Last seen heading overland from
Adelaide to Brisbane, Gustav Pfirrmann,
a German economist, who wears a thick
mop of brown hair, full-moon spectacles,
a Hitler moustache, but a most infectious
grin instead of the Hitler scowl. Before
catching the Strathnaver at Calcutta for
Fremantle, he had ridden 12,000 miles —
from Frankfurt through 12 countries —on
a 25-year-old motor-cycle, with only 180
punctures on the way. After repairs to
the cycle in Adelaide, he pushed on to
join a sister in Queensland. Pfirrmann is
a graduate in economics of Munich and
the London School of Economics. The
object of including India in his odyssey
was to study at first-hand India’s foreign-
trade problems, about which he will write
in a thesis for his M.A. degree. During
the long ride he paid his way by doing
conjuring tricks, including a fire-eating
act, and by playing the piano and
accordion in cabarets,
Q.C. succeeds Q.C. on the board of
directors of W.A. Newspapers, Ltd. Ill-
health retired H- B. Jackson, chairman
of the board for more than 25 years;
taking over, T. S. Louch, Uncle Tom to
the men of the 2/11th Battalion. Son of
an Anglican archdeacon, the new director
is a rangy six-footer, who collected M.C.
in France before he took silk in Perth.
He returned from the first scrap with a
captain’s pips, soldiered on in the militia
and helped to raise and command the
16th (A.M.F.), Westralia’s only kilted
regiment. When Hitler let loose Louch
went abroad again as C.O. of the 2/11th,
and bossed a brigade before the war
ended.
Eight Australian soloists and one from
New Zealand will take part in
this year’s season of Henry Wood's
Promenade Concerts in London. Singers
are William Herbert, Eleanor Houston,
Raymond Nilsson, Amy Shouard and
Elsie Morison. Instrumentalists, pianists
Noel Mewton-Wood and Colin Horsley
(N.Z.), organist George Thalben-Ball and
violinist Alan Loveday. Another young
Australian has made a sensational debut
in Paris —Desmond Bradley, the 16-year-
old member of Melbourne’s musical
Bradleys. Desmond, who held his first
concert at 10 at the Assembly Hall in
Melbourne, is now learning from the
famed Enesco, When the youngster
finished fiddling at the Salle Pleyel the
audience continued to demand encores
even after the lights were turned off at
the end of the programme. He has been
offered tours in Spain and South Africa,
“M.G.”: Cyril Watchorn, who retired
the other day as head of the Customs
shipping section in Melbourne, had for 35
years watched for Chinese, English and
Australian smugglers ; the success of his
endeavors as far as the Oriental is con-
cerned is indicated by the fact that opium,
is at a record high in Li’l Bourke. His
biggest scoop was the finding of 5001 b.
of the stuff in the funnel of an ocean
liner four years ago. His biggest headache
of recent years was the advent of the new
luxury liners, whose owners, for advertis-
ing reasons, allow visitors from shore am
open go. Gold goes out in fortunes on
individual persons and wrist-watches and
jewellery come in. Watchom’s sleuths
couldn’t search this crowd unless the Act
were amended.
The face pictured here by Lambart is
well enough known to both-war Diggers
—sole proprietor being Major-General
Alan B. Steele. Now, as Red Cross
director in Queensland, he is on the. major
job of filling the society’s coffers. Him-
self a Queenslander (Gyrnpie, 1895), he’s
a good advertisement for Duntroon, which
he entered as the youngest member of
the first class. One of five to get
cricket and football colors, he graduated
at 19, went straight abroad, and at 21
was 2 i/c of the 52nd Battalion in France,
after having been on Gallipoli. His
SHEKELS.
strategical study of the war in France
drew high praise from Monash. With
War 11, Steele went to a series of appoint-
ments in Queensland, Victoria and Tas-
mania, and was commandant at Darwin
during its early hectic war-development.
He was appointed to a Middle East
infantry-command, but, with the Japs
sticking their necks out, was kept back
to help with the lopping, which he carried
out in New Guinea and Borneo. He
retired in 1950. Last seen heading for
north Queensland, his objective the job
of persuading 100,000 northern-Staters to
become Red Cross members at an annual
subscription of £l.
Robert McCall, an Old Fortian born
in Glasgow, started his broadcasting (per
printed page) on the literary staff of the
Sydney “Telegraph” in 1922. After five
years of that he shifted to another medium,
gramophone-records, sales-manager for
Parlophone; and, about the same time,
started on the ether-waves with talks over
the A.B.C. and N.S.W. commercial
stations. From then on he stuck to air-
waves, becoming Federal programme-
editor for the A.8.C., then Victorian
manager, shifting to a wider audience
with Pacific services directorship of
the 8.8. C. in 1940. He was back in
Australia in 1945, Press and broadcasting
liaison-officer to the Duke of Gloucester,
then G.-G. Now back with the 8.8. C.,
controller of overseas services, he was
appointed the other day to the new post
of assistant-director of television broad-
casting. Forty-five.
If George Hewish’s every finger isn’t a
marlinespike and every strand of his hair rope-
yarn, they ought to tfe. A yellowed service-
certificate records that he joined the Royal
Navy as a boy; his last officer’s “flimsy” shows
that he was, on retiring the other day,
lieutenant-commander. For the 49 years in
between he has served continuously, which must
be a record for any navy. Nuggety, heavy-
jowled, with a skin weathered to the color of
old leather and a megaphone-scorning voice
like a deep-toned bugle, Hewish was one-time
bosun of the old training-ship Tingira—and that
was in the days of wooden walls and iron men.
He was in battle-cruiser Australia in the North
Sea in Wilhelm’s war, after that stood-by the
building of cruiser Canberra, and, just before
Hitler let go, was Lieutenant of the Yard at
Garden Island, an appointment which is as
salty as it sounds. His main job there was
looking after the enormous rectangular links
of iron cable which anchor the buoys that
hold up to 12,000 tons of cruiser. With war,
Australia made haste to protect her northern
channels of entry. Hewish was appointed
executive-officer (2 i/c) of minelayer Bungaree,
which sailed with a full cargo to sow her floating
SALT.
gardens of death off the Reef and in New
Guinea waters. All told, she planted some
5000 explosive bulbs. The night the Jap midgets
broached Sydney’s boom Bungaree was lying,
fully loaded, near Garden Island. The torpedo
which got the Kuttabul passed between Bungaree
and the U.S. Chicago. If it had exploded into
the minelayer’s full belly that tin-fish would
have razed a sizeable portion of the dockyard.
Both Hewish’s sons served in War II —naturally,
in the Navy.
A leading legal light went out when
A. D. McGill passed on in Bris-
bane at 66. Leader of the Queensland
Bar, much sought after when big briefs
were offering, he started as a classics-
master at an N.S.W. school, having got to
Sydney University on hard-won scholar-
ships collected in his birthplace,
Ipswich. But the Bar was his main bent,
and he returned north, to be admitted in
1911. In 1934 he took silk. Among his
big cases in 1950 were the Golden Casket
royal commission, for Archbishop
Duhig in the cathedral case and for the
defeated Liberal candidate in the Bulimba
election appeal, in which his exposure of
forged votes resulted in a fresh election.
McGill declined a judgeship in 1939. Out
of court, politics were his interest —for
10 years from 1925 he had been presi-
dent of the Country and Progressive
National party. His only son was shot
down and killed over France in 1944.
Lieut.-Colonel I. J, Hooker, a Brisbane
man, goes to the Northern Territory
Command. A militia captain when the
late shindy started, Hooker hopped into
the A.1.F., and went off in command of
a sig. outfit, the first active-service unit
to leave Brisbane for foreign parts in
that scrap. After Libya and Greece, he
was left in Crete when it was abandoned,
but a few weeks later bobbed up in
Alexandria, became a major and came
home to be attached to corps signals.
Colonel Renkin, whom Hooker relieves,
goes to the U.K. for specialist training in
that War II baby, land/air warfare.
When Renkin has digested his six-months
course he’ll be assistant-boss of the school
at Williamtown (N.S.W.).
Herewith, presented austerely by
Coventry, is Milford Lee, the newest
member of the Betting Control Board of
S. Australia. Soap’s his speciality, he hav-
ing been sales-manager for Lever Brothers
in N.S.W. during 1924-29, branch-
manager in Adelaide, and, since 1933,
managing-director of Burfords, the soap
people in that city. A War I Digger him-
self, with service in France, he is a par-
ticularly hard worker for the ex-service-
man ; on the committee of the War II
Fighting Forces’ Comforts Fund, and now
SOAP.
deputy-chairman of its post-war limb, the
War II Services’ Fund. As well, he finds
time to be a trustee of the A.I.F. Ceme-
tery Trust and the Soldiers’ Home League,
with membership of the governing-board
of the Burnside Memorial Hospital
thrown in. Sydney-born, Old Fortian,
0.8. E. last year.’ As a bowls-player he
owns up to being in the sixth division,
than which, he admits ruefully, there is
no lower.
Two fliers from the same suburb in
Melbourne, Brighton, were promoted to
wing-commanders the other day. Ronald
Susans, now attending an R.A.F. fighter
convention in London, qualified for
attendance by commanding No. 77 jet-
fighter squadron in Korea. C. A. Green-
wood was boss of the R.A.A.F. contingent
which flew in the Berlin air-lift.
Into the Silence:
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 72, E. A. Dobbie,
a native of Ballarat who wrote and proof-read
on the Otago “Daily Times” in Dunedin, in
Christchurch on the “Press” and on the
defunct Lyttelton “Times” and the Auckland
“Herald.” He owned for a time the Waimate
“Advertiser,” and, later, the Suva “Times” in
Fiji, rounding off his island work as Govern-
ment printer in Tonga. While in London he
was a proof-reader on the “.Times” and for the
publishing firm of Cassells.
At Pinjarra (W.A.), at 79, Ernest Murray
Fawcett, last surviving son of Captain
Theodore Fawcett, who took up 10,000
acres south-east of Pinjarra in the early days
of Westralia and built a flour-mill on the
Murray River. The mill is still standing, but
only 600 acres of the original estate are now in
Fawcett hands. Like his father, E.M. was a
man who started things—among them being the
first sawmill of the district, set up in 1900,
and Pinjarra’s first apple-orchard. In 1916 he
sold his Pinjarra property and took up virgin
land at Watheroo; selling out again, he invested
in station-properties round the Eastern Gold-
fields.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Ethel Fox, widow of
the late Phillips Fox and a painter in her own
right. They both painted in England and
Europe, shared a studio in Paris, exhibited and
were accepted at the same salons. After
her husband’s death she held an ’exhibition of
his works in London. Both have works in the
National Galleries of Australia.
At Suva (Fiji), at 50, Levani Tamanirukuru-
kuiovalau, assistant-superintendent of police,
the first Fijian to reach that position. London
“Punch’’ once referred to Levani, Etc., as “a
man of letters.”
In Perth, at 80, George Miles, a burly pioneer
who spent a lifetime, and much money, in show-
ing southerners the advantages in developing the
north-west. In several gold-rushes of the
’nineties, he eventually staked a claim at Marble
Bar, where began his interest in politics; from
1910 to 1950 he represented the North Province
in the Legislative Council. Largely instrumental
in having the railway established between Port
Hedland and Marble Bar (which ran for many
years before it was recently closed), he also
urged mining irdn-ofe at Cockatoo Island, Yampi
Sound, for years before that work started. He
was president of the W.A. Cricket Association
from 1939 till last year.
In Melbourne, at 57, D. K. McConchie,
former Archdeacon of Northam (W.A.) and
first Westralian padre to join up with the 2nd
A.I.F. With the 2/11th Battalion through the
Middle East, Greece and Crete, he ended the
war p.-0.-w. in Germany. He might have got
off Crete, but elected to stay and help the
M.O. look after wounded. One of his best
jobs was acting as anaesthetist while the surgeon
fixed up German paratrooper's whose parachutes
hadn’t opened properly. And in the p.-0.-w.
camp his work was outstanding. On return
to Perth he was a welfare-officer on ships bring-
ing out British migrants.


ALL OVER THE WORLD
jam
mm
wm
m
Wf
Good mornings begin with
Gillette
The gaucho devoted to leisure,
Thinks shaving a positive pleasure;
He finds Blue Gillette
With the sharpest edge yet,
For removing the whiskers a treasure.
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
a
S-BLADE PACKETS. 2/3
10-BLADE PACKETS, 4/6
20-BLADE DISPENSER. 9/.
The world’s best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
Vitt
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
g
THE
HYCEIA DISSOLVEHATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage ee
matter where your home may be,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
dfg
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The simple instruction card supplied
makes it possible tor any handyman
to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
- DISTRIBUTORS : ——-
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne. „ . ,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Me-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth. . _
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drenching Sheep.
“Shadow-chaser”: Being cer-
tain of the kind of parasite
you’re drenching for, read the
instructions on the drench con-
tainer carefully, and faithfully
follow them in all details, par-
ticularly as to length of time
sheep must be yarded before
drenching and the time they
must be kept from water after
drenching.
In one instance, when rain
prevented completion of a mob,
the balance were done the next
day after a second night’s fast.
None treated on the first day
suffered ill effects, but most of
the second lot died, and the
survivors of this lot lost all their
wool.
Give each sheep the exact dose
prescribed. Never give a badly-
affected animal a double dose, as
is often done. See the drench-
ing-race is the correct width for
the type of sheep you are
handling. A race wide enough
tor fully-grown woolly sheep is
a world too wide for newly-
shorn or young sheep. To
narrow a race have lOin. x 2in.
rails bolted on the inside of the
race for handling small sheep.
This prevents them from turn-
ing in the race and the dosed
from boxing with the others.
Have an assistant mark—
preferably on neck or head —•
each sheep as it is dosed. Begin
with the leading sheep and
work backwards until each lot
is done.
Grain Sorghum.
“Milo”; A great meat in-
dustry in U.S.A. is founded on
centralised production of maize
in the corn-belt States of the
Middle West. Canada has a
large hog industry built on
barley production within its
wheat-belt.
Grain - sorghum takes the
place of maize in further wes-
tern regions of more limited
summer rainfall in U.S.A., and
there are indications of another
great meat industry developing
on that foundation.
We have no large centralised
region of maize production in
Australia, but the N.S.W. north-
western slopes and adjacent
plains, as well as a correspond-
ing area in Queensland, could
develop as large centres of a
meat industry based on
sorghum production.
After trying grain-sorghum a
few years ago landholders in
that part of N.S.W. practically
gave up the crop largely be-
cause they could not find a
profitable immediate cash
market.
But sorghum would have been
very useful during the last
drought, when thousands of
stock were lost and more thous-
ands lost condition for want of
feed.
With its high production of
roughage as well as of grain,
grain-sorghum lends itself to
economic use for beef cattle, and
there are many ways it can be
used for sheep.
In Queensland.
“Agric”: What is called
wallum country extends inter-
mittently along the Queensland
coast from the N.S.W. border
to the tropic, varying in width
from a few chains to about 50
miles. It enjoys probably the
safest rainfall in the State, and
is well served by road and rail.
But the soil is deficient in phos-
phorus and trace-elements, and
stock seldom do well on wallum
country.
Now the State Department of
Agriculture has taken over an
area on which to conduct tests
with feeding phosphatic ferti-
liser and trace-elements to the
soil and phosphates to stock,
together with pasture tests. This
isn’t before its time, and fol-
lows long years of sporadic sur-
veys and reports.
Dr. N. T. M. Yeates,
C.5.1.R.0., after investigations
at Brisbane abattoir, has evolved
a statistical system of apprais-
ing beef carcasses for the pur-
pose of comparing the reaction
of different breeds to the same
environment, or the reaction of
one breed to different environ-
ments. The method is based on
factors of conformation, finish
and quality, but is too compli-
cated for ordinary people.
Three prominent beef- and
dairy-raisers in the Mundubbera
district have introduced zebu-
cross bulls into their herds. They
consider the zebu is the answer
to high dipping costs and heavy
cattle losses in dry times.
W. J. Moyle, Delmount,
Derra, looks to the zebu to get
quick growers and tick-resist-
ance in his Hereford-Aberdeen
Angus cross and Aberdeen
Angus herd, and his experience
to date is that the zebu is easy
to handle if taken quietly.
F. G. Sedgwick, Glenmore,
Glenral, who runs horned Here-
fords, first became interested in
the zebu after two series of
droughts in the last seven years.
He has used a quarter-bred
zebu, and is buying another
from T. Bishop, Rocky Glen,
Cooyar.
Frank McCauley, Deramac,
Mundubbera, said it was the
best-quality cows which died in
a drought, and it appeared that
an infusion of zebu blood would
make for stronger constitution
and tick-resistance. He con-
tended that dairymen putting a
trace of zebu blood into A.I.S.
calves would get more meaty
calves at four to six weeks than
at present.
With 162 head of cattle
entered in a “K” wagon (rail-
way van) competition unknown
outside the U.S.A., the Rock-
hampton fat-stock show this
year struck anew note. The
judge, F. H. Hutton, of Binge-
gang, Dingo, claimed that the
regulations governing the com-
petition made it the toughest
contest open to owners of fat
cattle.
It was restricted to cattle pro-
duced on natural pastures, and
was an early-weight-gain contest
with no weight penalties and
half the maximum points
allotted on the hoof assessed for
early maturity. Any beast in any
entry showing more than six
permanent incisors disqualified
the whole wagon.
“Dave should never have married that city girl.”
Highest points on the hoof
went to a “K” wagonload of
Shorthorns entered by R. Comis-
key, Central Creek, Withers-
field, which weighed 20,5541 b.
and gained highest place for
breeding, evenness of pen, con-
formation and evenness of flesh.
Second - highest on - the - hoof
assessment went to a load of
Aberdeen-Angus entered by the
Withersfield Pastoral Co.,
Withersfield, which weighed
21,1421 b. and gained highest
marks for early maturity. At
slaughter both the foregoing
were disqualified on age. Only
two points on the hoof separated
18 Poll Herefords entered by
J. F. C. Anger, Arizona, Dingo,
and 18 Poll Herefords entered
by E. W. -G. McCamley,
Eulogie, Dululu. At slaughter,
however. Anger’s entry was dis-
qualified on age, leaving Mc-
Camley’s entry the winner.
Stock in Winter.
“Kiwi”: In New Zealand
they’ve proved that cows well
fed in winter will produce from
261 b. to 631 b. more butterfat in
the next lactation than those
poorly fed.
Autumn-saved pastures are
reckoned the best for dairy cows.
Placed on them for about an
hour a day, the cows get in addi-
tion 201 b. of silage and 41b, to
61b. of hay. When there are no
pastures each cow is fed as
much hay as it will eat (never
less than -101 b.) and 201 b. of
silage. Where winters are mild
and there is good grazing silage
is cut out, but lots of hay given.
Roots, and from |lb. to 11b.
of meatmeal per day, provide
the right nutrients for sows and
wintered pigs. Sows about to
farrow are stied and fed any
milk available. Farrowing over,
the meal ration is put up to 51b.
per day, plus meal and roots.
Cutting down the meal at this
time results in lighter litters at
weaning.
New Test for Cows.
“Ericlee”: A simple preg-
nancy-test for cows which, when
perfected, may increase the milk-
supply and add to the income of
dairyfarmers has been an-
nounced through the University
of California by John H. Byers,
of Oregon State College,
Addition of a chemical to
urine samples gives a color re-
action which shows whether the
cow is pregnant. Farmers can
make the test themselves.
In preliminary work on 136
cows the test was 91 p.c.
accurate. This is somewhat less
accurate than the method now
generally used, but it can be
made a week or so after con-
ception, Byers said.
Conventional U.S.A. tests are
not effective until about six
weeks after conception, and
have to be made by a trained
operator.
This time-difference is the
important part of Byers’s dis-
covery. If a cow does not con-
ceive when she should there may
be a delay of 60 days before
she has been rebred and proved
to be pregnant. In a herd of
100 cows this is equal to the
loss of the milk of two cows
for nearly a year as well as the
loss of two calves.
Byers uses sodium benzoindo-
phenol. If the cow is pregnant
this turns the urine green; if
not the color remains un-
changed. No heating is neces-
sary. The test is not yet officially
recommended; this depends on
further work at Oregon Col-
lege.
Farm Classing.
“Sundowner”: The true price
of wool is the total wool cheque
divided by the number of sheep.
Care in preparing the wool for
market is the best raiser of
averages.
Preparation for market starts
on the shearing-board. A board
not properly and constantly
swept allows second cuts and
rough edges to be picked up
with the fleece, resulting in a
higher noil content. Skirt the
fleece to remove these edges, also
sweat-stains, dags and backs
where necessary.
The wool-table should be
sft. 6in. wide and 12ft. long,
with rollers or slats at least lyin.
apart, allowing the fleece to be
thrown out to its fullest extent.
Skirters then have the whole of
the fleece to work on, and do
not have it draped over the edges
of the table.
Skirt carefully under foreleg
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The present sunspots are about to pass finally from
sight, and it is at this point that their greatest activity, as
far as weather is concerned, usually occurs. So mid-July
may decide the cyclical position for the present.
Further cold rains are likely in the southern States and
in Sydney. There may be flood falls further south. The
main change will be in the north, where the relief falls may
be delayed—some next month and some later.
A somewhat helpful fact is that there are no spots
following the present spots, which seems to give greater
power to the effects of the present ones.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
*Du- €<d- (k
Sterilised ' 1
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
Don't be
tooled
PY
big
money
U
ft s
mm
u m
Arm.
So you’re young, and earning good money. But
how much is your “big wage” really worth ? Think
what it costs you to live! And what about your
future?
Do you know that a Serviceman of 18 —after 3 to
6 months’ preliminary training —earns over £lO a
week, PLUS EXTRAS worth many pounds a week
more?,
At least £lO a week and all these extras!
dfg
Free food and accommodation.
Free initial clothing issue.
Medical, dental and hospital ex-
penses free. Full pay during
illness.
Retirement on a pension while
young enough to enjoy it.
At least three weeks’ leave per
year, with concessions in fares
and travelling time.
Check these advantages against your
present job!
’
• Organised, on-the-job training to
increase skill and pay.
• Career opportunities in over 100
occupations.
• Diligence and proficiency ensure
promotion and pay increases.
• Continuity engagement at all
times.
Why not find out more about the career opportunities in
the Services NOW!
Enquire at the following without obligation:
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Onr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Fasrle St. In Adelaide; Richards Building,
99 Currie St. In Perth: 34 King Street. In Hobart: Franklin
Sq. In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Utuei by the Director-General of Recruiting
PF40.112.62
Whatis
•vs-SS
VALUE
duVde
no
is
pyice
an
\j\i\lS ' v ” lV
e
nei
lo
confer
is
dfg
The building of a Ronaldson-Tippett engine calls for
expensive plant, skilled men and best materials plus
expert inspection all along the line. The operations
involved are costly but you get VALUE ... a
dependable, economical power plant which will last
a lifetime.
Yes, the best costs money. A low price
might mean a bargain in other fields, but
NEVER in an engine !
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY in most sizes!
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT Ltd.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke St. N.S.W. Dis-
tributors; Eonaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge St., Sydney. Qld. Dis-
tributors: Eonaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
ROMIDSON TIPPETT
ENGINES
■
10 YEARS’ GUARANTEE
The British-built Ago is
guaranteed for 10 years
against faulty materials
or workmanship.
A SPECIAL
OVEN FOR EVERY
COOKING PURPOSE
It’s sheer heaven to cook with a
four-oven Aga! In addition to three
hotplates, you have a Roasting oven
big enough to take your Christmas
turkey; a Baking oven to bake cakes
and bread; a Simmering oven for
slow, economical, flavoursome cook-
ing such as soups and casseroles;
and a Warming oven where food
waits unspoilt, hour after hour.
Each Aga oven automatically main-
tains correct temperature , and since
the Aga never goes out it’s always
"just right” for cooking.
P.S. Thermostatic control
guarantees fuel economy!
/ THE 4 OVEN
AGA
COOKER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR THE AGA COOKER
AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES ______ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA ______ Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ _A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
and in front of hind leg. Crush-
ing means that few stains are
met across the breech, but it
leaves a shorter wool, which
must be removed. Removal of
the back is necessary if it is
affected by weather or other
things.
Throw pieces to the end of
the table ; they are then easier
picked up than if on the floor.
Kikuyu.
“1.V.H.”: There is only one
strain of the plant, all the kikuyu
in Australia having been vege-
tatively reproduced from one
plant—the only one to grow
from seed sown at the Botanic
Gardens, Sydney.
Kikuyu will survive on all
soils, but production is in
accordance with soil-fertility.
High to moderately high fer-
tility is required for continuous
high production. It is aggressive
and crowds out everything else.
It reaches its greatest develop-
ment in areas with a high
summer rainfall.
A sub-tropical species, sensi-
tive to frost, it makes its main
growth during summer, but is a
better winter grower than pas-
palum. It is eaten readily by
stock, whereas paspalum is un-
palatable when mature and
when carrying ergot. Kikuyu is
unaffected by ergot.
Kikuyu is the alternative to
paspalum in northern dairying
areas. Beware of planting it on
land ever likely to be needed for
cultivation; Though it spreads
solely by runners, there is a
danger that once introduced it
may not stop spreading until it
covers the entire property.
Methods of introducing
kikuyu are to plant the runners
or to put them through the chaff-
cutter set for the longest cut,
then harrow the “chaff” into
cultivation ground.
A Timber Crop.
In a country short
of softwoods Insignia pine could
prove a blessing. It is an easy
timber to grow on farms. In
15 to 20 years thinnings of pine
forests planted now would be
selling for case-making, paper-
pulp, flooring, etc., and bringing
home the profits.
Insignia does well in deep'
fertile, loamy soils and tableland
or mountain climates, also on
slopes where soils are deep and
retentive and rain averages 20in.
a year or more. Soils with faulty
drainage, acid soils overlaying
tough clays and drought-prone
areas are no good.
The trees provide shade and
shelter for homesteads and stock,
windbreaks for orchards and
crops. Raise the seedlings on
the farm. Cones collected now
are mature and seed should give
100 per cent, strike. Plant
deep in fine virgin soil; don’t let
the seed-rows dry out. Seed
planted now will develop into
seedlings from 9in. to 1 lin. high
by July next year, and should be
transplanted after the spring
rains. In the small forest, place
them 10ft. apart—43o to the
acre. This close planting gives
good knot-free timber.
In the first thinning at from
15 to 20 years, felling of inferior
trees makes room for sturdier
types. After that trees are gradu-
ally removed till the final thin-
ning at about 25 yqars. Remain-
ing trees should then number
from 150 to 200 per acre. End
of rotation period is about 40
years. Well-developed pines of
that age have been known to
yield 800 tons of timber per
acre —a good financial harvest.
No other pine produces as good
a softwood in the time.
Hints for the Farm.
“W. Court”: When a tractor
shows signs of a fault drive it
into the shed before attempting
repairs. If rain falls on a dis-
mantled tractor it is likely to
give endless trouble afterwards.
“Billjim”: Jap millet is a use-
ful supplement for dairy-cows.
It grows rapidly and under
fertile conditions can be grazed
when 6in. to 12in. high, pre-
ferably in breaks providing one
to two hours feeding daily.
Don’t allow the millet to get
away to seed, as stock cannot
cope with it then. Where it has
reached this condition cut for
silage or hay.
“Bill C.”: To clean a dirty
rifle draw four water-soaked
flannel patches through the
barrel. Follow with three dry
patches to remove the moisture,
then run several oiled flannels
through and finish with a
greased rag. The weapon may
then be put away for some time
with safety, but it will be
necessary to remove the grease
with a dry patch on the pull-
through before it is used.
Greased bullets are safe enough
provided they are kept in a dust-
proof box until used.


COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
LAND TAX ASSESSMENT ACT 1910-1952
LODGEMENT OF LAND TAX RETURNS
Federal Land Tax returns in respect of land or
interests in land owned as at midnight on 30th June,
1952, should be lodged with the federal Deputy
Commissioner of Taxation, 21/23 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, not later than 31st August, 1952.
The following persons are required to furnish
returns: —
(1) RESIDENTS who. on 30th June. 1952, owned
land or interests in land of a total unimproved
value of £6,000 or over;
(2) ABSENTEES (or their agents) who, on 30th
June, 1952, owned land or interests in land of
an unimproved value of £1 or over;
(3) COMPANIES which, on 30th June, 1952, owned
land or interests in land of an unimproved value
of £6,000 or over. All such companies must
also forward returns setting forth the names
and addresses of the shareholders in the com-
pany as at 30th June, 1952, the number of
shares held by each shareholder and the amount
of capital paid up on each share at that date.
Where a return of land or interests in land owned
as at 30th June, 1951, has not been lodged, Form "A"
should be used showing complete details of all land
owned as at 30th June, 1952. Where a return has been
lodged showing land or interests in land owned at
30th June, 1951, but landholdings have altered in any
way since that date, Form "C" should be used. Where
no change in holdings has taken place since 30th June,
1951, a declaration (Form "CA") to that effect is
sufficient.
In every case where land is held in more than one
State the return should be lodged with the Federal
Deputy Commissioner of Taxation, London Stores
Building, Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne.
Forms may be obtained from the principal Post
Offices or from the Federal Taxation Office, 21/23
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
PENALTY
Failure to lodge return: £lOO.
W. A. PERT,
Federal Deputy Commissioner of Taxation.
LT5.72.62
Missing Friends.
TO DANIEL POTTLE KING formerly of
Virginia and Snowtown (South Australia)
later’,of-Mildura and Healesville' (Vic-
toria). —TAKE NOTICE that, your wife
LORNA KING has instituted proceedings
against , you for 'Divorce on the" ground
of desertion- Unless you enter an appear-
ance in, the Prothonotary’s Office Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the Seven-
teenth day of August 1952 and file an
answer on or before the Twenty-seventh
day of August 1952 the case may proceed
in your-absence-and you may be ordered
to pay.costs.—MULLETT & LANGFORD,
Solicitors, 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
OWEN ERNEST MARKS, late of Williams-
town, Victoria, who died on or about 17th
December, 1930. —WOULD any person
having information as to whereabouts of
the widow or any children of deceased
please communicate with DOYLE &
KERR. Solicitors, 136 Little Malop
Street, Geelong, Victoria.
BO'AC •* 1
From Australia—to all 6 Continents
ftYBOM
Swift, sure, 8.0.A.C. Speedbird services link 51
countries on all six continents . . . save days,
even weeks of travelling time. You fly without
delay—on one ticket all the way. Four-engined
Speedbird aircraft are pressurized for smooth,
above the weather flying. You relax in deep-
seated comfort, enjoy complimentary meals and
meal-time drinks, and courteous, friendly attention.
No tips or extras for traditional Speedbird service
and experience.
m WOHID
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA
HONG KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA
PAKISTAN e MIDDLE EAST o AFRICA • EUROPE
GREAT BRITAIN • U.S.A. « CANADA • CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
ly your freight by 8.0.A.C., too
~ -r. * in r\ a n
hrmation & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., (B.CKA.O.
neral Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darzm
from travel agents in all cities and towns -
TISH OVFRSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
I. WS™ EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
A3OS/AU
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, motor-car, lady driver,
original duco.” — Suburban paper.
Schoolgirl complexion, in
other words.
4* 4* 4*
“They run the administration of
Echuca, which has a population of
about £6OOO, a revenue of about
£25,000 and a deficit of about £5000.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
And every citizen a man of
note.
4* 4* 4*
“Some men are louts until they
die.”
—Sydney magistrate A. E. Hodgson.
You can neither take the
corners off them nor take them
off the corners.
“To cause a child to be educated
beyond his natural ability may well
. condemn him to a lifetime of frus-
tration.” — Educationist Dr. William
Alexander.
Too much maths may make
him a problem child.
4* 4*
“Older men are mellower, fuller and
richer. Men, like wine, improve with
age.”— Nude poser Marilyn , Monroe.
But get a little crusty eventu-
ally, perhaps.
4* 4*
“The cleverest dressmakers run up
the most striking creations for a mere
song.”— Fashion article.
But they give each an exclu-
sive air.
4* "4* 4*
“For a long time women have been
battering at the door of men’s
citadels.” — Women’s paper.
Finding many of them a mere
pushover.
4* 4* 4*
“Sometimes we reflect that there is
nothing so childish as a great Power.”
—London “Daily Mail.”
Especially if it won’t play ball
with anyone,
4* 4* 4*
“He said the stewards were satisfied
that Spellman’s pour effort was no‘
due to any interference near the half
mile.” — "Sunday Mail’’ (Q-).
What about leakage of infor-
mation, though?
4* 4* 4*
“When I want to hear about the
cost of living I do not appeal to
economists —I ask my wife.” — Chan-
cellor of Exchequer R. A. Butler.
A few words from her fill the
bill.
“My face always looks much fatter
in a photograph.”— Correspondent in
women’s paper.
Overdeveloped?
Great Snakes!
“Sea-serpents 100ft..long are among
specimens brought back to England
by Danish research-ship Galather.”
This is the age when scientists
Wrest Nature’s secrets from
the sky,
Compiling ever-growing lists
Of spiral nebulce on high.
And not content with what is
known
Of ocean depths in other years
They venture down to Neptune’s
throne
In fused-glass windowed
bathyspheres.
Quaint are the creatures which
are found
When probing nets search
ocean beds —
Huge shrimps and spiders that
astound
And fish with searchlights in
their heads.
Such facts we credit on the
strength
Of recent finds that make you
think,
But snakes one hundred feet in
length !
Why, they were always in the
drink !
D.H.E.
Savoir Faire Sex.
“Women are better managers than
men.” — Women’s paper.
Time was when this I would
dispute;
Men’s wits {Td argue ) women’s
smother.
And bragged, to prove it, how
astute
I was compared with my son’s
mother.
But now I’m ready to concur—
(What wrought the change
we’ll not discuss ) —
For, while we fail to manage her.
She manages to manage us!
P.O.M.C.
The Shrewd Heads.
“Owners of some Sydney night-
clubs are considering a scheme for
closing down in a ‘sympathy strike,’
the idea being that public opinion
would soon demand that they be
allowed to operate again as they have
always done.”
“Well, how is the sympathy
strike going, Mr. Bust?”
“Highly successful! We figure
that some of us are losing £5O a
night on the sale of bottled beer
alone, on the basis of buying at
3s, 6d. a bottle and soaking the
“ There’s something in my beer.”
mugs seven-bob. We reckon that
the Taxation Department will
soon bring pressure to bear on
the Big Shots to sell the stuff
again.
“We are also confident that
gigantic protest meetings will be
held all over Sydney—all over
the State, in fact —to force the
authorities to allow us to reopen
on our own terms. We feel that
the people will be so incensed at
being denied the right to pay 10s.
for the service of one of our
strong-arm teams in carrying
them to their cars on leaving the
‘club’ that it will result in a
monster petition which nobody
will dare to ignore.
“I can visualise at this
moment,” went on the great
man, “great crowds stampeding
outside Mechanics’ Halls and
Schools of Arts in every town
and hamlet throughout the nation
eager to give their unbounded
support in the cause of liberty
for us to prise pelf from the
come-ons. I can well imagine
on every sheep-station through-
out the land shearers —who have
a special affinity with us —hold-
ing stopwork meetings in stirring
protest against the scandalous
way we nightclub proprietors are
being singled out for brutal
victimisation. How enraged
must be all the tree-fellers, the
charcoal - burners, the opal-
gougers, the dam-sinkers and
fencers at the awful injustice we
are suffering. It might even lead
to another Eureka Stockade. We
confidently anticipate that the
great sympathy movement our
plight has aroused will quickly
become an avalanche. No Gov-
ernment in the face of it will
dare stand in our way.”
“And what about the rent of
your closed nightclub, Mr, Bust
—you will go on paying that
throughout the sympathy
strike?” V
“Oh, yes—that is really one
of our shrewdest moves.'
Imagine how mad the owners
of the premises will be to think
that they have to go on accept-
ing our rents knowing all the
time that their premises are being
deprived of the tone which has
for so long been lent to them
by the presence of herds of half-
shot bookies, pencillers and
blackmarket-operators.”
“You’ve closed everything
down then, Mr. Bust?”
“Oh, no I Do you think we’re
that silly? Everything is as
before; the food, the waiters, the
cigarette-girls, the floor-show,
the grog—that’s still rolling in so
heavily the cellar’s choked to
the ceiling, and we’ve had to
rent four double-garages to hold
the stuff—all but the customers.
That is our master-thrust. It is
shrewd psychology, you see.
The knowledge that there is
everything waiting for them just
to come along and be shorn
must stir the public to such a
fever-pitch of righteous indigna-
tion that the effect of it will
inevitably be that the authorities
will shortly come and beg us on
their knees to reopen. Fancy
allowing a place to become that
dead!
“But more than that —the fact
that nightclub proprietors in
Sydney are in danger of facing
ruin will, we are confident, result
in a great upsurge of sympathy
for us. The temper of the people
over this is, we are sure, close to
explosion-point. Strong men,
unashamed of their tears, have
stopped me in the street and
sobbingly asked how they could
subscribe to a Benefit Fund for
us; others almost have to be
restrained from launching a great
drive to found a Friends of
Nightclub Proprietors’ Associa-
tion —several prominent poli-
ticians and some other retired
gentlemen who have been on
our free-feed list are expected to
bcome office-bearers in it.”
“Are there any other interests
on whose support you are
depending for the successful out-
come of your stay-in strike, Mr,
Bust?”
“Oh, yes, and on them we
really build our richest hopes. I
refer, of course, to those people
who devote their time and
energy to protecting the interests
of children. The children of
today are the nightclub habitues
of tomorrow. Obviously, then,
those who are charged with the
task of looking after their
interests must rush to our
defence if they don’t want to see
the kids as young men deprived
of the great cultural influence of
nightclubs, where flat-racing,
trots, dogs, baccarat and the
fights and wrestling are so
learnedly discussed. Now you’ll
have to excuse me—l have to go
and see a dog about a man
named ‘Peter’.”
Bo.
Whoa!
“ ‘Why don’t the racing-stewards,
in their war against illegal use of
stimulants, test some of the favorites
which run last?’ asks a writer.”
Bad lads who “sting” their
mokes, we know,
The stipes are out to cop.
But, in the interests of speed
We followers of hot-pots plead:
Don’t warn-off sports who make
’em go
But narks who make ’em stop!
PERCY.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Our Publicity Abroad
When we send abroad some pitiful
koala or kangaroo to advertise some
second-rate film we think w© are being
quite clever. Yet how can such an
approach do us any good with the people
who really count? A frightened mar-
supial is a poor advertisement for a fine
continent!
Lately Germany held a fair of world
class, and most of the countries were
represented in lavish, tasteful or imagina-
tive manner, Australia’s contribution?
Two deal tables, with some tinned
apricots on one and a few jars of honey
on the other! No mention of wool,
wheat, glorious scenery or fine stock?
Yes, a couple of miserable pictures on
the wall behind the honey and the
apricots.
Although we occasionally produce a
singer, actor, painter or writer of world
class, it is not enough. I don’t favor
slavish imitation of the American way of
life, but I do feel we could, with
advantage, tear,a page out of their rules
for publicity.— Fradelle (Vic.).
Officers
It was the invariable rule in the British
and Indian regular armies that a staff-
officer should have a firm basis of regi-
mental training, and that his staff
appointment should not last longer than
four years, after which he would return
to his regiment, wherever it was, for
further regimental training.
By that -sensible rule a staff-officer had
a regimental home and a close knowledge
of the requirements and limits of the
fighting man, his equipment and his
weapons. Orders from such re -lirid-nlally-
trained staff-officers bore the authority of
personal experience, and they boosted
morale because regimental-officers and
men never felt that they came from a
chair-borne officer out of touch with
regimental life.
In the tiny regular -Australian Army
many officers and n.c.o.s in staff jobs
have not been on a parade -ground, or a
battlefield, for upwards of six years.
Some have had little or no regimental
training. Many have been in so many
regiments and battalions, or in specialist
units, that they have no regimental home.
In the capital cities, staff-officers, in
many instances, live at home in soft con-
ditions, and, while wearing the rank and
insignia, are not really lit to take the
field in their rank.
With its limitations, the Australian
Regular Army cannot afford to have staff
people holding soft jobs. Every member
of the Regular Army should be a fighting
soldier first and a staff-officer last. Every
educated officer should be encouraged to
take the staff course, but the principal
reason for our army’s establishment is a
fighting one. No staff-officer should be
so divorced from his regiment that he
ceases to know the requirements of the
gunners, air-liaison, the tanks, the infantry
and the lesser units such as field-work-
shops and their subsidiaries. And every
soldier serving in the line is entitled to be
certain that the staff issuing orders knows
what it is talking about, —5 G.R. (Vic.).
A Murray Port
A port at the Murray mouth (B.
11/6/’52) is a wild-cat idea. The Murray
enters the sea via a gap in a long stretch
of sand-dunes. Where river and sea meet,
a formidable surf has piled up a great
sandbar. Even if dredges could work
in such rough water, the surf would
replace the sand as fast as it could be
removed.
No local deposits of stone are available
for the construction of breakwaters, and,
even if there were, the building of an
artificial estuary would be a far greater
task than the great Cape Town break-
water. Leading harbor engineers have
studied the problem, and all have de-
clared it to be hopeless. Admiral Ores-
“Cuckoo!”
well, for example, could suggest nothing
better than the dredging of a channel
through the Coorong lagoons as far as
possible, and a flying-fox ropeway to
transport produce the rest of the way to
the shallow-water jetty at Kingston.
Naturally, no Government gave it serious
consideration.
In any case, the construction of an
artificial harbor is justified only if many
arid valuable bulk cargoes such as grain,
wool, coal or ores are available for ship-
ment. The lower portion of the Murray
Valley does not provide them; its small
but valuable consignments of perishable
produce go to the capital cities for home
consumption, and commodities (such as
dried fruit) which are exported do not
need anything save existing transport
arrangements,
S.A. Premier Playford is not the man
to let difficulties, man-made or otherwise,
stand in the way of development. On
the other hand, he gives a hostile recep-
tion to daydreams. When he described
the Murray-mouth port idea as dead, he
wasn’t airing theories. He was repeating
the considered opinions of the world’s
best harbor engineers.—H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Sales Tax
Of all the taxes levied at present, none
is so unfair or so harmful as sales tax.
It is unfair because it is a differential
tax, and it affects both manufacturers and
consumers. There are many anomalies.
A nickel- or chrome-plated champagne
bucket, for instance, is taxed 12£ per cent.,
while an E.P.N.S, teapot rates 66| per
cent. Poker-machinss rate half the sales
tax on engagement rings ; children’s toys
are taxed more heavily than luxury sports-
cars.
As an artificial barrier between buyer
and seller, the higher sales-tax rates are
putting some businesses right out of pro-
duction. Many of the industries feeling
the pinch to the point of extinction had
a real war-time application, and they are
highly skilled industries that cannot be
revived overnight.
Apparently they are regarded by the
Government as “unessential” industries,
but what right in peace-time has any
Government to discriminate between in-
dustries? In Britain the cost of children’s
toys is taken into consideration when
fixing the basic wage; in Australia toys
are savagely taxed, while the licence-
fees of greyhounds and the prizemoney at
Randwick and Flemington go tax-free.
That kind of economy would not be
tolerated anywhere else in the world.—
D.T. (N.S.W.).
Apprentices
“Hist” (B. 4/6/’52) has overlooked the
effect of our changing social and economic
structures on apprentices.
Evidence given before the committee
of inquiry into apprenticeship in Aus-
tralia, under the chairmanship of Mr.
Justice Wright, disclosed that in many
factories apprentices were not being
taught their trade properly because of
lack of supervision or inadequate equip-
ment. It would also appear from the
evidence that apprentices were not always
under the direct, control of tradesmen
capable of teaching them.
The evidence further revealed that the
moral environment at many places of
employment left much to be desired.
Apprentices were given the impression
that the job was mere slavery and, at
most, a means of getting money. The
dignity of labor or the concept of doing
an honest day’s work was never stressed.
Such negligence on the part of em-
ployers must have its reaction in loss of
production.— Pubserv (S.A.).
Potatoes
The report (B. 25 / 6/’52) of an under-
standing magistrate fining a N. S. Wales
spudgrower a shilling for selling potatoes
“other than to the Potato Marketing
Board” raises a controversial point.
Here in Victoria potato-production is a
record, and if, in the absence of a board,
growers were left to the mercy of
merchants, the price might not even make
double-figures, whereas the board pays
£33 10s. a ton. One advantage of orderly
marketing is that it mitigates the harsh
effect of the old law of supply-and-
demand. Many a grower can recall the
days when a good crop in a glut year
brought £2 a ton.
To maintain a fair price in glut years
boards have to pay less in a year of
scarcity than a grower would get in a free
market. The temptation to blackmarket
then proves irresistible to some. But, for
successful operation, growers must
support the board in years of shortage as
in years of plenty.
The controversy is between those who
like boom and bust, and those who prefer
a steady price regardless of market con-
ditions. One can’t help feeling that, with
capital costs as they are, it is better for
a young bloke starting out, loaded with a
mortgage and plant under hire-purchase,
to have some price-security. After all, it’s
hard enough to meet debt repayments in
the face of flood, drought, disease or pest
without adding price-fluctuation to the
burden.— D. V. Fogarty (Vic.).
Marketing Boards
Criticism by the Liberal party’s regional
conference of marketing boards is not
based on sound premises as far as the
Egg Board is concerned. This board is
constituted under the Marketing of
Primary Products Act, was set up on the
petition of commercial poultryfaraiers
and endorsed by the necessary poll.
Under the Act producers (of any com-
modity) have the right to demand a con-
tinuance poll for the retention or rejec-
tion of the marketing board.
Three continuance polls were held,
and each time there was an overwhelm-
ing majority for retention of the Egg
Board. There has not been a poll for
over 15 years, but if producers are not
satisfied they can demand one at any time.
The Act provides for it and the Minister
cannot refuse.
Bona-fide commercial poultryfarmers,
while not satisfied with the present
economic set-up, know that dissolution of
the Egg Board would be dissolution of
their living. Hence they retain it.
Country producers (those outside the
counties of Cumberland and Northum-
berland and the shires of Nattai and
Wollondilly) asked for the extension of
the board’s control over the whole State.
In pre-board days dairy houses handled
the eggs on consignment, but production
then was around five to six million dozen.
Now it’s over 50 million dozen, and there
aren’t enough dairy agents, floor-space or
staff to handle it. Producer-controlled
marketing is nothing more than a co-
operative —it gets the best price possible
for the products, distributes any profits
pro rata and any assets are owned by the
producers.
If the Egg Board isn’t wanted by the
people who use it, they can out it in less
than three months.—D. J. H. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 182
Across.
I—Conversation1 —Conversation of those who rail a
description of “a badge” is rotten
during the epoch. (8)
6—Crab growth is tropical. (6)
10 — Ego about fury. (3)
11— Liberality suggests S as distinct
from s. (8)
12— A social offence to steal a glance
at the wool-producers’ loser.
(2-4)
14—Stopped with precipitation jn the
past. (6) ~ -
16— This robber of other robbers gives
a greeting to a motorist in the
early stages of fixing a “flat.” (8)
17— Stone ring is set before a com-
rade. (4)
18— Vega disguised and yielded under
pressure. (4) .
20 —Smollett yields to prejudice. (6)
23—Billy was this hoax, and this
may become a Billy. (3)
25 Your French avoirdupois. (3)
26 Alternative wickedness to duck
one who wondered if music was
the food of love. (6)
28— A preposition, or two. (4)
29 am tinned by a murderer. (4)
30 — One vehicle backed another at
cards. (8) .
32—This is more unfair. (6)
35 A dishonest bargainer that is an
army trainee. (6)
36 — Girl separates parents with *
view or in a canal. (8)
37 — Pull an ear. (3)
38— Esteeming 51 with a sovereign.
(6)
39 — Dance with a parched collection
of narrative verses. (8)
Down.
1 — Old arms put anti-bumper strokes
to account. (9)
2 Valor of a prelate going wrong
in the middle, with nothing to
follow. (7, 2)
3 Kinswoman. (5)
4 The essence of a thoroughfare
named after an American soldier.
(4)
5 Before. (3)
7 Loving one’s portion of the fuss.
(9)
8 — Retard the progress of a pattern
for draughts. (5)
9 Australian river lassoist. (5)
13 —Steersman has the 3.14159 quan-
tity. (5)
15 — Buck’s mate. (3)
16 — 36 across drops or suggests this
topgear. (3) , J _
19 —Emperor appears the day Ger-
many surrendered with a matter-
of-course Oriental. (9)
21 — Short and square in build, with
a doctor turning up where sheep
and cattle are held for sale. (9)
22 — In the wood with a girl, so get
the hospital. (9)
24 —Tinned Peruvian? (5)
27 —Grain. (3)
28—Satan’s throne far outshone the
wealth of Ormus and this. (3)
30 — Get a jewel and miss nomination.
(5)
31 — Decrepit personality holds the
bread inhabitant of 9 down. (5)
33 — Island between Sydney and North
Sydney? (5) .
34 wilt over a medievaj epic of
Iceland. (4) . .
36 —Hops from this address of spirits.
GI
Solution to Crossword No. 181


nil
III!
pj] no an HQ 1111
mmmaniiniiH 11
i nn an nn otr n a li
‘TOOTJUUI
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Dr. R. J. TAYLOR
Hon. T. G. MURRAY.
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
General Manager;
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA;
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD;
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.I.C.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager:'J. M. Hannan, F.I.C.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
I ] 3 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD;
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA;
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD;
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry
Manager: W. Dwyer
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
{lncorporated in New South Wales in 1878 )
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1951:
★
BUSINESS RECORD established by the
Policies assuring £10,249,851.
sue of 10,1
★
INCREASED
Depreciation,
f Policies In Force exceed 116,000, assuring
over £64,000,000
9 Premium Income amounted to £2,316,669
f Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1951,
totalled £813,437, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£13,750,000
q Special Additional Reserves amount to
£740,000
f Bonuses Increased
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
