

Msm
yfr~k
of
Utofpo fo« ttyo
(Smtmgo
The Bulletin
MISS KIM'S BABY
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73- No. 3802
Wednesday, December 24, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
OSTERLEY PARK, A TREASURY OF ADAM FURNITURE
TWELVE miles from Piccadilly, on the outskirts of London, is Osterley
Park, which for years was the seat of the Earls of Jersey and was
described by Horace Walpole as “a palace of palaces.” This superb house
stands in a large park, six miles in circumference, with two artificial lakes.
The original mansion was built in 1577, during the first Elizabethan period,
for Sir Charles Gresham, founder of the Royal Exchange. Two hundred
years later Osterley was bought by wealthy Sir Francis Child, son of a
Wiltshire clothier and founder of Child’s Bank. In 1761 he commissioned
the great architect Robert Adam to redesign the house.
Instead of entirely rebuilding, as was at first intended, Adam incorporated
much of the old house in his design. The courtyard was vaulted over to
form a raised internal court, and a spectacular Grecian portico, approached
by a grand flight of steps, was added to the main front.
Built in an age of elegance, it is the interior of Osterley Park which is
particularly noteworthy, for no expense was spared, and Robert Adam was
given a completely free hand. He designed the colored ceilings, the book-
cases, mantelpieces, the furniture, the magnificent gilt mirrors—in fact, almost
everything from the State Bed to such elaborate details as incense-burners.
In no other great house did Robert Adam direct greater care to internal
decoration than at Osterley, where the rooms are decorated with opulent
magnificence. In the Long Gallery may be seen a series of paintings by
Romney, others by Rubens, and elsewhere are superb tapestries with matching
furniture.
Romance is also part of the story of Osterley, for it is associated with
one of the most celebrated of runaway marriages, when the beautiful daughter
of Robert Child eloped to Gretna Green with the handsome Earl of
Westmorland in 1782. Their daughter married the fifth Earl of Jersey, and
Osterley Park remained in that family until 1949, when the ninth Earl gave
it to the National Trust.


Learn
rt
at HOMF
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-’—- -’CUT HERE AND MAlir~~ ——-
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.152) Age
The Red Page
THE KON-TIKI THEORY
Thor Heyerdahl’s American Indians
the Pacific (Allen and Unwin), about
foot square and three inches deep, 82
pages weighing five pounds, is t]
biggest book that has landed on the r
viewer’s desk since The Seven Pillars
Wisdom fluttered in like a ten-ton butte
fly; and it is very likely as assured o:
classic status as Lawrence’s masterpiec
It is the theory behind the Kon-Tik
expedition.
Or, rather, the theories: for Heye
dahl sets out to prove here not only th
his red-bearded, white-skinned Peruviar
whom we heard about in Kon-Ti
drifted by raft to Easter Island, built th
great bearded statues and expander
through the Pacific to become the Poly
nesian “fairies” when a later, browi
skinned race wiped them out; but tha
these same brown destroyers, whose de
cendants, mingled with the remnants o:
the Peruvians, are our- Tahitian
Hawaiians, Samoans and Maoris of to
day, came also from America, bein
originally a Caucasianlike race wh
crossed from Asia into North Americc
at the spot we now call British Columbia
and from there, while others of the
people remained to mix with later in
vaders and become the Red Indians
sailed with the wind to Hawaii.
Whether or not Heyerdahl’s theor
about the Peruvian redheads is correc
these people are certainly a fascinatin
subject for speculation; for they do
exist, still, today, fair-skinned, auburn
haired individuals among the browne
Maoris, not albinos and not half-cast
Europeans but demonstrably of pur
Maori ancestry.
They run like a bright stream through
the green world of Maori mythology
forming the basis of most of the storie
in such books as James Cowan’s Fairy
Folk Tales of the Maori, where they are
usually engaged in leaping from the bush
to ravish Maori maidens or, in one amus
ing legend in which the ladies of the
“people of the mist” are the principa
actors, rushing down from the moun
tains to carry off a blushing Maor
youth. As a living people amongst their
darker compatriots they appear as figure
of mystery and beauty—obviously far
more plentiful then than they are today
—in the accounts of many of the early
European discoverers. Thus Quiros
whom Heyerdahl quotes, when Mendana
discovered the Marquesas, saw a girl
or some say a boy, so beautiful in her
red hair that she seemed “like an angel”
her skin was “not fair but white” ; anc
the Marquesans generally—a Polynesian
people— were “almost white” and “many
of them were ruddy.”
One New Zealand writer, Judge Ache-
son, in his novel Plume of the Arawas,
captivated by the mystery of the fair
red-haired people, suggested perhaps half
in earnest that they were descended from
Vikings whose ship had strayed into the
Pacific and had been wrecked; and,
though one must be careful not to put
words into his mouth, it is possible that
a somewhat similar notion as to their
ultimate background is cherished by the
descendant of the Vikings, Thor Heyer-
dahl. For if the white-skinned strain of
the Maoris came from Peru, where in
prehistoric times there were certainly the
white-skinned, red-bearded demigods
whom the Incas thought had returned
when the Spanish invaded the land, from
what country “over the seas” did they
come to Peru?
Heyerdahl follows a trail back to the
west coast of Africa and the Canary
Islands, where “the Norman and Spanish
conquerors a few generations before the
discovery of America found an aboriginal
population part of which was of Cau-
casian race, light-skinned and tall, with
blond hair, blue eyes, hooked nose and
beard” ; and there, with a significant foot-
note saying that these Canary Islanders
called themselves “Maohreri,” and with
a brief glance into unfathomable prehis-
t°ry, he leaves this aspect of his investi-
gation. Exploration further back in time
and place might take him to Europe, or
even to fabulous Atlantis—which would
be dangerous ground for a responsible
anthropologist.
The great proof of his Peru-to-Easter-
Island theory, so far as any such specu
lation is capable of proof, was of cours
his own stirring voyage on the balsa-wooc
raft Kon-Tiki from South America t
shipwreck on a coral reef near Tahiti
which not only provided his publisher
with a world best-seller and the readin
public with one of the most attractiv;
adventure-books of the age (and mayb
the best fishing-book since Isaak Walton
but demonstrated to sceptical anthropolo
gists that the voyage was physicall
possible.
Obviously, if Heyerdahl can show
along with the proved practicality of th
voyage and the known red-bearded peopl
of Peru whose mummies still survive
that there came with the supposec
voyagers gods, plants, place-names and
an art of stone statuary from Peru, h
has a strong case. And this is precisely
what he does show; if not conclusively a
least strikingly.
The stone statues of Easter Island
bearded and originally wearing strange
conical hats, are remarkably like the
bearded and conical-hatted statues o;:
prehistoric Peru and the similar figures
subsequently modelled in Peruvian pot
tery. There doesn’t seem to be any doub
that the Peruvians as well as the Poly
nesians had a principal demigod named
Tiki, in both cases associated with the
sun. The kumara or sweet-potato (callec
cumar in Ecuador), the coconut, the
hibiscus and all the rest of the plants
which can be proved, or at least argued
to have come to the Pacific from South
America and which would have rotted in
the sea if they had drifted across of their
own accord, might just as well be sup-
posed to have arrived in a balsa-wood
raft with the red-bearded Peruvian refu-
gees as to have been introduced, as other
ethnologists have presumed, by Poly-
nesians beating against the wind all the
way to Peru on voyages of trade or ex-
ploration in canoes which, as Heyer-
dahl the sailor stresses, could have made
the journey with their clumsy rigging
only with the greatest difficulty, how-
ever extensive were the voyages th(ey
made when sailing before the wind. ✓
Maori place-names, arguable as de-
rived from a Peruvian origin, are every-
where: Hikurangi in New Zealand, said
by Percy Smith to commemorate a moun-
tain of the same name in the most ancient
habitat of the Polynesians, could well be
Sikuani in the Titicaca plateau of Peru ;
Makurangi, on the same New Zealand
peninsula where Hikurangi is located,
corresponds with Makusani, lying next to
Sikuani in the Peruvian mountains ; and
Hilo, the best seaport on the south
Peruvian coast, really does sound very
much like Hilo, the principal port on the
east coast of Hawaii.
The red hair of the Maori fairies is
known as the uru-kehu hair; and if
Heyerdahl traces this significant Maori
prefix, which Best said was the name of
an ancient homeland of the race, back
to the Uru tribe of South America rather
than to Ur of the Chaldees, which is
where Best arrived in his pursuit of the
Maoris in Asia, who is now to be sure
that Best was not wrong? To Ur is
human. And it is certainly pleasant,
whatever the rights and wrongs of the
case, to think that Tauranga in New
Zealand, where one’s uncle lives in blame-
less retirement catching snapper, may
echo the voices of the far and long-
vanished Tarangas, “one of the earliest
aboriginal tribes inhabiting the, shores of
Lake Titicaca.”
As for the companion-theory, that the
brown-skinned Polynesians came from
prehistoric British Columbia, it is almost
enough simply to look at the pictures in
Heyerdahl’s book of a Maori and a
north-west American Indian totem-pole.
The same curiously-involved figures go
twisting up the pole, the same little
demon sits at the top with his tongue
sticking out; except that within the
general outline the Maori pole is very
much more finely decorated, they are as
like as —to use an appropriate cliche —
two pins.
For this theory, too, Heyerdahl has a
prodigious array of evidence, the extent
of which this review can only barely
indicate. There is the physical similarity
shown in the photographs of Maoris and
Red Indians—like enough, except that
the Indians who stayed in America
obviously got a large admixture of
Mongoloid blood from Asia which the
Maoris escaped. There is the corollary
that, if the Maoris did come from Asia
through Malaysia or Indonesia, as most
anthropologists have supposed, why are
they not little yellow-brown men with
straight black hair; and how did they
come through the immemorial civilisa-
tions of southern Asia or Indo-
nesia as a stone-age people without pot-
tery and without the wheel? There is
the suggestion that Hawaiki, the name
most used by the Maoris for their an-
cestral homeland, was not Java, as some
previous ethnologists have suggested
but simply—and surely much more
plausibly—Hawaii; and beyond Hawaii,
perhaps, to Hakai Strait, in British
Columbia, “the direct exit open to the
Pacific from the only channel on the
north-west coast where we have obvious
proof of as yet unexplained tribal expul-
sions.”
There is the amazing evidence of
blood-tests; scientists who practise this
strange art and have tested the peoples
Heyerdahl is concerned with say that the
blood-group factor known as “B” is high
in all Melanesian tribes, high in all the
present inhabitants of Indonesia and the
continent behind, remarkably low in the
races of both North and South America
and equally low in the Polynesians,. Per-
haps, if one had confidence in this scien-
tific witchcraft, this evidence alone would
be conclusive: for the Maoris apparently
couldn’t have come through Indonesia
without getting “B” in their blood.
Then there are also the facts that the
British Columbian Indians and the Poly-
nesians had the same kind of canoes
and stone axes ; that both had the habits
of apologising to a tree when cutting jt
down for a canoe, of nose-rubbing and
cannibalism. The north-west Indian
culture-hero Kan-e-a-ke-luh who
“married a woman of the sea and went
away over the ocean and was no more
seen” and who was afterwards repre-
sented by the sun apparently reappeared
as Kane, the sun-god of the Polynesians
in whose honor Hawaii was called “the
resting-place of Kane.” And, to make an
end before this review also reaches a
thousand pages, there is the small and
significant fact that a recognisable walrus
frequently appears in Maori carving, as
does a puma in the untranslatable pic-
ture-writing of Easter Island—from
where did these beasts stray into the
Pacific if not the one from North and
the other from South America?
Anthropologists, no doubt, will be
arguing with Thor Heyerdahl about the
origin of the Polynesians for the next
thousand years and in many a thousand-’
page volume; and this reviewer, after
voicing his suspicion that Heyerdahl may
be right, is content to leave them to it.
The vital point to be made here is that
American Indians in the Pacific, for all
its alarming bulk, is a fascinating and
most readable book. It will never, of
course, have the enormous popular appeal
of the story of the Kon-Tiki voyage ; it is
not, as the other book was, a particu-
larly colorful piece of prose; but it has
a beauty of its own, not only in the
intrinsic romance of the theme, but in
the clear and shapely marshalling of
evidence and logic ; the comprehensive-
ness and incisiveness with which Heyer-
dahl analyses and rejects all previous
theories on the subject and the equally
masterly style in which he presents his
own.
Gramophones
Selwyn Speight’s Gramophone Hand-
book (Currawong) says about everything
there is to be said about gramophones,
how to buy, use and keep them —except,
of course, how to keep up the payments.
He rules out exponential horns by page
six: but on records and microgroove
records, and the speeds at which records
of different sizes do their best work, he
is most informative; his essay on
“Needles and Distortion” must cover
every known method of getting in the
groove ; he brings to our attention centre-
drive, rim-drive and belt-drive motors ;
turntables, speed-convertors; automatic
changers, and pick-ups.
Nothing escapes him: the cabinet, the
wall-mounting, the corner-baffle ; he de-
mands a room of “at least 3000 cubic
feet for a wall-mounted speaker, with the
listeners at least 15 feet away”; though,
as he says, “in most homes the proposal
to knock a hole in a brick wall will not
be welcome.” He confirms an impres-
sion most of us have: we are bom bad:
“few living-rooms are big enough for
faithful reproduction of all types of
music,” and our “carpets, padded seating,
even wallpaper soak up the high notes” ;
nay, “the walls of a room throw the
sound back and can introduce all sorts
of odd effects.”
A noble, an uncompromising book,
with, at the end, a most valuable 72-page
list of records, graded under two head-
ings, of performance and recording, and
divided up as buyers’ choice, concert-
music, light orchestral, opera, hillbilly,
jazz, dance, children’s music, etc.;
although how anyone could put Campoli’s
Mendelssohn concerto above Heifetz’s is
beyond saying; one heard the same
blasphemy recently from the A.B.C. It
is worth going a hundred times to hear
the slow movement done properly once;
it is an achievement that the greatest of
violinists cannot command, but only pray
for, and maybe it isn’t absolutely Heifetz’s
lucky day on the record ; but to mention
Campoli in the same breath as Heifetz is
like comparing some little glamor-chook
with Cleopatra ; he has some soft, appeal-
ing little ways, but where are those firm,
pure; lines, where is that insolence of per-
fection, where is the barge she sat in,
like a burnished throne?
Rosebowl
From Melbourne comes the literary
curiosity The Rose howl, by Aubrey H. L.
Gibson (Cheshire), the story of his travel
to London to supervise the production
of a silver rosebowl by the master-silver-
smith R, E. Stone. They let him knock
about their workshop and try his hand
at the bench while Ms rosebowl was in
the making, and consulted him on the
band-engraving which runs round the
bowl.
All of which Mr. Gibson records
clearly, but a little stiltedly, with divaga-
tions into the Museum of Modern Art in
New York, the history of London gold-
smiths, trips all over England to see
famous collections, and to Paris and
various French towns; then back to see
how the bowl was getting on-; then over
to Ireland ; then by stratocruiser across
to Canada, and so back to Melbourne,
the completed rosebowl following, also
by air—a lovely bit of work, the bowl,
but, if one may venture an opinion, not
improved by the engraved band, which is
like a nursery-wallpaper dado tacked
round a Grecian urn.
Open Spaces
Two small pocket-books of use to the
hiker and yachtsman are In the Bush, by
G. B. Orbell (Whitcombe and Tombs),
and Galley Ho! by Joan Grigsby (Ross
and Harrap).
In the Busk is a compendium, with
diagrams, of packs, camp-cookery, first-
aid, tents, boots and shoes, rifles, fires,
etc. Being a New Zealand book, it
devotes considerable space to stalking
deer and measuring their antlers. An
Australian edition could leave this out,
and devote the space to a revision of
Chapter 13, on “Getting Bushed.” Here
again, the heads of Chapter 13, “Where
am I?—Sit down and think,” etc., should
be revised for the Australian hiker:
“Where are we?” etc.; for the bushed
Australian hiker chasing his dear is a
very different kettle of fish.
Galley Ho! is strictly plain cookery
for yachts: “Cooking Without an Oven,”
etc. It begins with an essay on making
tea, taken from a letter Mr. Ju-K’and
T’ien wrote to the “Times” deploring the
wasteful English method.
After warming the teapot, only one and
a half [tea] spoons are required for an
ordinary-sized pot. The tea is only just
covered with boiling water, and is allowed
to stand for half a minute. A little more
water is then added and allowed to stand;
this is repeated until the pot is filled. The
pot must never be completely emptied
before adding more water for a second
pouring.
The Terror of St. Taman’s: Timothy
Shy and Ronald Searle (Max Parrish).
Since a volume of news of St. Trinian’s
girls’ school has become an almost annual
event, most readers know by now whether
they “wouldn’t miss a Ronald Searle
drawing for quids,” or “can’t see any-
thing in them.” This reader belongs to
the first category and is happy to report
that Searle’s pen has lost none of its
squiggly enchantment. Timothy Shy’s
story is rather heavy-handed and seldom
as funny as the unsophisticated school-
girl tales which it parodies.
* * * *
Drama and Dance in Bali: Beryl de
Zoete and Walter Spies (Faber). This is
a superb reprint of the book first pub-
lished in 1938, 343 large pages copiously
illustrated with striking and beautiful
photographs and written by an inter-
national authority on the dance and an
accomplished musician and photographer
who lived for many years in Bali. While
it is indispensable to anyone with a
special interest in the subject it is also, in
its vivid prose and curious information,
of considerable interest to the general
reader, simply as a travel-book from an
unusual angle.


Insist on a good mattress
when you buy yours!
Do you know the “inside story*' of your mattress? You can t
always judge a book by its cover, the same with mattresses. The
cheapest price and prettiest ticking often hide poor filling,
unreliable springs. But never in our Store! re prepared to back
that statement by showing the inside of all our
mattresses to you, our customer. Most of these
mattresses we make ourselves in our own factory.
Other brands must conform to our specially high
standard before we will stock them. With this
guarantee, you, our Country customer, are assured
not only of a gooddooking mattress but a mattress
that will stay new “inside” year after year!
■■ \ y
■■ - -•
X \
i ...
m
m
m
! ■:>
tm-.
mm.
wt
mm
• V
Hi
W
s
mm
Enlarged illustration of
our wire mattress.
mm
'"Of?
•rSs.
Good Bedding is a
Sound Investment
Imagine, you spend about 23 years of
your lifetime sleeping! If you were
buying furniture to last that long, you
certainly wouldn’t spend your money on
poor, shoddy quality, would you? So
why, for the sake of a few pounds,
deny yourself restful sleep? Your best
mattress ever is here!
Four-ply Wire Mqftress
Compare these qualities with other mattresses. (1 ) Specially
tinned 23-gauge wire. (2) 4-ply woven web. (3) Reinforced
with 6-ply. (4) Selected Oregon in timber frame. (5) Wind-
ing Bolts. 4ft. 6in., £lO/15/6; 3ft. 6in., £9/15/6; 3ft.,
£B/12/9; 2ft. 6in., £B/1/7.
"Success" Inner Spring Mattress
With a Success Inner Spring Mattress you get (1) English
imported tempered spring unit. (2) Curled hair. (3)
Garnetted cotton wadding. (4) Cocoanut Fibre Pads. (5)
Rose or Pink imported ticking. (6) Air vents. (7) Handles.
4ft. 6in., £29/9/6; 3ft. 6in., £23/19/0; 3ft., £2O/12/9;
2ft. 6im. £l7/19/6.
The ideal pillow for patients
m ■
Three-way Pillow
A pillow that really supports you in
bed, reading, writing or eating. Ideal
for patients or breakfast-in-bedders!
Covering of floral damask ticking.
An investment in comfort at £3/19/9
Restmore Inner Spring (unillustrated)
The Restmore Inner Spring Mattress gives you (1) Australian tempered
spring unit; (2) curled hair; (3) garnetted cotton wadding; (4) Cocoanut
fibre pads; (5) Rose, Green or Blue ported tipkmg*. (6) Air vents;
(7) handles. 4ft. 6in., £27/10/0. 3ft. 6m.. £22/15/0. 3ft., £lB/15/0.
2ft. 6in., £l4/19/0.
"TRUTH IN ADVERT JSIMG'
nthonj Huttons.
i.*.N
MAIL ORDERS TO ANTHONY HORDERNS’
BEDDING DEPARTMENT,
THIRD
FLOOR. BOX 2712,
G.P.O. PHONE M 2401


Jottings on Tours
CRICKETING
SOUTH AFRICANS
By W. A. OLDFIELD
IT is truly said that the famous English
bowler Bosanquet first hit upon the
idea of breaking a ball from the off
with a leg-break action; but the
discovery was accidental
It happened after a game of billiards
he was playing with R. O. Schwarz, the
renowned South African googly bowler,
who was a student at Oxford at that time.
hilHS'Sf .Tff fP enme , ntm g Wlth a
h A\ tab e ’ t nd Wa f- a , maz T e T d
at the result of the spin he applied. He
a^tennk^hall f ° n ° wll ? g da T with
. m f gai P e caded . twisty
A’ and went on to P rove hs value
on the cricket field.
From then on bowling this type of
ball became an ambition of most slow
bowlers, and it was named the “Bosey”
after i s discoverer On his first trip to
Australia in 1903-4 Bosanquet outwitted
most of our leading batsmen with this
ball.
☆ ☆ ☆
* , , „ , ~
Armstrongs powerful side of 1921,
had Z tl ISL
met its Waterfoo on b th e
rL? i*• Sff !
a of aZ“ur S P ffied^Tnd
led by A. C. MacLaren. And the chief
factor in our defeat was the famous
South African all-rounder the late G. A.
Faulkner, who batted magnificently in
the second innings, scoring 153, and
bowled with marked success, taking six
wickets in the match.
Others to bowl with success were M.
Falcon, »the fast-bowler from Norfolk,
who took eight wickets in the match, and
C. H. Gibson, who finished with six
wickets to his credit. Being left with
196 runs to win,
we failed by the
narrow margin of
29. Our second
and final defeat
was in the
Festival Match at
Scarborough
against a strong
combination
chosen by C. I.
Thornton, which
defeated us tjy 13
runs.
# ☆ ☆
Unquestionably
the best bowler
we encountered in South Africa on any of
our tours was J. Blanckenberg, from
Transvaal, who was a medium-paced
right-hander. At this speed he was able
to finger-spin both the off-break and
leg-break, which was very disconcerting
to our best players, particularly on the
matting wickets in the high altitude of
Johannesburg.
Several of our good batsmen, who
scored well over a thousand runs on the
English tour only a few weeks before,
looked like novices when facing this
great bowler. His style was similar
to that of the famous English bowler
S. F. Barnes, who is frequently referred
to as the greatest medium-pace bowler of
all time.
☆ * ☆
The late Hedley Verity and “Jock”
Cameron, the South African wicket-
keeper, figured in a bright moment when
the 1929 touring South Africans were
playing at Bramall Lane, Sheffield, against
Yorkshire.
Cameron had hit Verity for three fours
and three sixes in one over. As Verity,
at the end of the over, was passing Wood,
the Yorkshire ’keeper, Wood gravely said:
“Well, Hedley, you certainly had
Cameron in two minds.”
“What do you mean?” asked Verity.
“Well,” said Wood, “he didn’t know
whether to hit you for four or six! ”
☆ ☆ ☆
The atmosphere created by the South
African spectators during a Test at the
Wanderers’ ground reminded me forcibly
of the Sydney Cricket Ground during
an exciting tussle between England and
Australia.
Like all true lovers of the game, and
brimful of pride of their country and
hopeful of its success, the Johannesburg
public flocked to the Wanderers’ ground
in thousands, and in their keen interest
in the play expressed their opinions and
feelings freely till the atmosphere became
fairly electrical—Sydney all over again.
I found Johannesburg, in fact, the Sydney
of South African cricket.
My own personal view is that a bit of
barracking adds to the interest of a match.
The old Wanderers’ ground, by the
way, is there no longer. The railway-
station has been built over it, and Tests
in Transvaal are now played on Ellis
Park, six miles out of Johannesburg.
☆ ☆ ☆
During the visit of the Australian Test
team to South Africa in 1935 we had a
very happy introduction to the condi-
tions in which our matches were to be
played when we arrived at Kingsmead
Ground, Durban, with its closely-shaven
wicket and grass outfield.
Personally, I was agreeably surprised,
as I still held the memory of that particu-
lar ground as it was when we had previ-
ously played Tests there. The conditions
during my earlier tours (with the A.I.F.
team in 1919, and later with Warwick
Armstrong’s team of 1921) were entirely
different. I still remember most vividly
the hard red-earth outfield and the strip
of green coir-matting in the centre of
the ground, which, except for Newlands,
in Cape Town, where the outfield was
beautifully grassed, was the general state
of things.
The memory one holds of the Wan-
derers’ ground in Johannesburg under
those conditions is a nightmare of having
to take the field with the sun pouring its
great heat upon us and reflecting from
the gravel ground. This in itself was
severe enough, but later on in the after-
noon a vicious wind would spring up, and
cricket went on in a dust-storm.
After an absence of 14 years I stood
gazing in bewilderment, trying to con-
ceive how anyone could succeed in grow-
ing even a blade of grass on what had
been a barren field. It was quite amaz-
ing to see such a perfect carpet of rich
green grass extending over the whole of it.
☆ ☆ ☆
The whole tour of 1935, covering a
period of four months and including the
most interesting parts of the Union of
South Africa, was a great success. Hos-
pitality was lavished on us, not only by
the authorities controlling cricket, but
by the then Prime Minister, General
Hertzog, a calculating, though interesting
personality, and also by General Smuts,
a delightful character.
On several occasions General Smuts
paid informal visits to our dressing-
room. He always soon managed to
divert the conversation from sport to the
loveliness of nature surrounding the little
village of Irene, in the back veldt country,
where he enjoyed the peace of a quiet
country homestead. He would, however,
quite freely discuss international problems
with us.
At the farewell luncheon tendered our
team by the South African Government
I was seated beside Prime Minister Hert-
zog. Among other things, he told me
the odd story of how he came by his
unusual Christian-names, James Barrie
Munuk.
He was so named as his parents’ tribute
to the physician who had attended the
Hertzog family over many years, taking
all the physician’s names to become
James Barrie Munuk Hertzog.
Now, as a student the physician had
enjoyed a strikingly successful academic
career, had earned a very high reputa-
tion among his contemporaries and was
STORIES
“A Greek Story”
by John Fountain
The superbly-told love-story of a
Redfern larrikin who went to Greece
as a soldier and was changed by the
atmosphere into a hero of legend.
In next week’s “Bulletin’*
a popular figure at Edinburgh Uni-
versity. Eventually he returned to South
Africa, his native country, where he was
hailed as a genius, was greatly sought-
after in the medical profession and was
held in the highest esteem by the public
generally. And, after his sudden death,
it was discovered that this eminent
physician was a woman! She had suc-
ceeded in masquerading and so conceal-
ing her identity for all those years,
To me it sounded like a good yarn, and
I had the South African Prime Minister’s
word that it was thoroughly authentic,
and he had been named after him—l
mean her.
Talkie Talks
IT was my own fault, I suppose.
I shouldn’t have been idiot
enough to ask her the question.
Yet it seemed an innocuous
enough one, even for Aunt Bella, to
ask her idly if she had seen Aunt
Maggie lately.
“Yes, only last week. We went to
the pictures together. It was a lovely
show, too. It was full of murders.”
Aunt Bella exercises a vicarious
fondness for mayhem and slaughter
by medium of the talkies, just as her
favorite pastime of recounting the
plots of them arouses in me, her
special victim, a keen sympathy with
those who practise homicide. Aunt
Bella had been poised on the re-
counter’s mark, and I had unwittingly
fired the starter’s gun. I groaned.
“The main one was very exciting,”
Aunt Bella went on quickly, before
I could switch the conversation to
another channel. “But it wasn’t so
easy to follow, because they kept
going back in time. I forget what
they call it.”
“Flashbacks,” I said resignedly.
“Yes, that’s it. Well, this was
about a gangster in New York or
somewhere who used to be bad but
wanted to go straight but they
wouldn’t let him.”
“Who —the police?” '
“No, the other gangsters—the Big
Shot and his two friends. You see,
they ran a big gambling racket. But
she, the dark one he wanted to marry,
had faith in him, but the one with
the hard face and peroxided hair
who used to be his girl-friend when
he was in the gang gets wild when
he won’t have her on again, and tells
the gang he’s a stoolpigeon for the
police. It was real good the way he
stuck out against her.
“I won’t tell you anything more
about it in case you want to see it
yourself. But it is one of the most
exciting pictures I’ve seen for a long
time. Especially where the gang
lures him up into a high building by
sending him a phony message, and
they try to push him out the win-
dow ; but the blonde, who still really
loves him, shoots one of them to
sa him and she gets shot herself.
When the Big Shot and the other
one get away he kisses the dying
blonde, though it’s really the other
one he loves. There was a thrilling
chase among the sampans in the
t h ht rb a r r a .K Ho^ B ,^ ong - 1 knew that
girl they d kidnapped—she was
u £ mencan Red Cross worker
Sj B d . 6S^ ed from the dancing
Reds m China— wasn’t the one who
had the jewels that had been stolen
from the Buddhist temple.”
“I thought you said the’ gangsters
were running a gambling racket in
New York.”
“Oh, yes, of course. Aren’t I silly!
I was getting it mixed up with the
support. It was real good, too. 1 All
about an American who’d stopped in
China after the war. It was Ronald
Reagan, and he took the part quite
well, too. Well, he found the little
orphaned boy, and that’s how he got
the jewels.
“Well, I was telling you about the
ex-gangster who was going straight.
The crooks lure a blind friend of
his, who had got on to a clue about
them, into their building at night and
get him to walk through the lift-
door, but there’s no lift there, and
he crashes down to his death. It was
terrible! Then Scar face tries to
kill him with a truck as he’s crossing
a street one dark night...”
“But he’d just fallen down the lift-
well,” I said gloomily.
“No, no —this is the ex-gangster.
I should have told you before that
the gang had seen him talking to a
crime-reporter in a cafe. WeH,
Mickey happened to be there...”
“Oh, I see, there was a Walt Dis-
ney cartoon on as well?”
“No! Mickey was the dead girl
gangster’s young brother, and he
wanted to avenge her death. He’d
overheard the Big Shot tell Steve to
get the dictaphone record that he
thinks the crime-reporter had. Oh,
I should have told you, too, that
just before that it takes you back to
the time when the Big Shot had shot-
up a rival gambling gang.
“But I musn’t tell you any more
about it. I know I hate anyone to
tell me all about a picture before-
hand —it spoils it for when you see
it. But I should have told you
—just before that the big sinister-
looking fat Chinaman in ( the dark
glasses tries to get to the airport with
the stolen jewels he’d got when he
drugged the American in a coffee-
shop. When he recovers he rushes
out to the airport and there’s a
terrific fight just as the plane”
“Is this at Hong Kong or New
York, Aunt Bella?”
“Oh, of course —I’m forgetting. I’m
getting mixed up with the support.
But it was really quite good. But the
other one has a surprise-ending. I
won’t tell you what it is because it
would spoil it for you. But it was so
cleverly done. I’m sure I wouldn’t
have guessed it in a hundred years
that the Big Shot, who always wore
dark glasses, just like the fat China-
man in the other film did —I suppose
that was why I kept getting them
mixed up—would turn out to be the
crime-reporter’s twin-brother, who
he thought had been killed in a train
smash years ago. ‘Loser Takes All’
was the name of it —you don’t want
to miss it.”
“It’s coming to our local flea-
hatchery next week,” I said. “Well,
thanks for not telling me about the
plot, Aunt Bella —we’ll be on pins
and needles wondering who the
crime-reporter’s twin-brother really
is!”
Bo.
The House-ghost
THE pride of the Robertsons is
Mazenka, the little Polish girl, a
most willing domestic, who, in the
short six months of her stay, became
the mainstay of the household.
“It is truly incredible, my dear,” Mrs.
Robertson boasts at the bridge-party to
her cronies, “how clever these foreigners
are. Of course, my only contact with
them is Mazenka, our maid. But the
way she picked up English—well, she can
understand every word spoken to her.”
That’s why the Robertsons don’t mind
going out, leaving the baby and the
telephone in charge of a very apt linguist.
The telephone rings. Mazenka. very
much self-assured, with the confidence
of a general, and convinced that her luck
cannot change, picks up the receiver.
“Hello?” she breathes heavily into the
speaker.
“Where’s Mrs. Robertson?” the in-
quiry comes from the other end of the
“Oh, her passed out, please.”
This is a piece of intelligence which
perturbs the friend of the house, who
anxiously asks: “And where is Mr.
Robertson?”
“Oh, him passed out, too.”
What a terrible tragedy, the caller
thinks. “And who are you?” she in-
quires. The answer is equally puzzling,
because Mazenka very proudly declares:
“I am de house-ghost.”
But why the “house-ghost”?
Well, because Mrs. Robertson is a
great believer in democracy, and in-
structed Mazenka to say that she is a
house-guest, and not a servant.
Translating literally is one of Mazenka’s
main troubles, and, also, that puzzling,
mysterious way of spelling English words,
and the pitfall that changing one single
letter gives the whole sentence a different
meaning.
STEPHEN KELEN.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 24, 1952
Vol. 73—No. 3802
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 597 L
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE FORGOTTEN TOAST
The year 1952 the 164th year of this country’s
existence as a land of white men—is ending in a whirl
of spending. Christmas shopping in the big cities has
reached opulent dimensions after a. slow start.
Australians are a versatile lot. They appear in
strange and difficult roles in every part of the world
and in all phases of life and effort. They are champion
cricketers, tennis - players, jockeys, footballers,
barrackers, soldiers, admirals, two-up players, axemen,
cattlemen, Communists, novelists, poets, critics (arm-
chair and otherwise); but above all things they are
champion spenders. Tellers’-elbow must be a serious
industrial disease in Australia.
The one thing the Australian is not generally good
at is counting his blessings and measuring his own
progress. Yet it is worth while doing a little retrospec-
tive thinking. It would be pretty hard for a Martian to
believe that in the time of the great-grandfathers of
an appreciable portion of the Australian population
there was not a single European on the continent. It
is pretty hard even for earthlings to believe that in
1952 there died in Sydney a man whose father came
to New South Wales with his regiment in the year in
which the first young settlers were sent across the Blue
Mountains by Macquarie, and when the white popula-
tion of the Australian mainland was only 25,000, and
the Home Government cried blue-murder if the local
Governor-in-Chief spent more than £50,000 a year on
running the continent.
Today the Australian population is greater than
that of Britain itself in our foundation-year 1788 ; and
Britain, then was a world Power which, in spite of the
loss of the American colonies, was reaching towards the
height of its wealth, culture and greatness. It is worth
pausing to look at that fact, and to try to envision
what it portends for the Australia of Christmas, 1988,
if the hydrogen-bomb has not by then blown us up.
We shall probably still be lagging behind civilised
countries in many essentials —though we may have got
television and railways may by that time even be
paying. But one thing is certain: unless the sheep
has deserted us or artificials have killed him off, this
country will still be prosperous and spending highly
relatively to other countries. For the sheep is Aus-
tralia’s rich uncle, and the little-appreciated keeper of
its prosperity.
There were brief periods in our history during the
last century when wool was dethroned by gold as the
main source of our power to spend. But, generally
speaking, though nobody ever thinks of giving a
Christmas-present or drinking a toast to a sheep, it is
on the back of the sheep that we live. Aus-
tralians, of course, remember bad periods in their
history—the Hungry ’Forties, the flood-struck ’nineties
—still commemorated in Brisbane bars (“Don’t spit—
remember the ’ninety-three flood”) —and the drought
year of 1903.
But Australia’s depressions, even the last, were
a circumstance compared with a depression, say, at
Jarrow, because wool is one of the commodities which
the world hasn’t been able long to do without, even
if it can pay only a starvation price for it. The sheep,
in fact, has become so regular an earner, enabling the
Australian to live, supporting him in peace and giving
him economic stability in war when the shout for
millions of uniforms rises, that its power to earn for
us is taken for granted as a permanent manifestation
of a beneficial nature. Which it is not.
The Reverend Samuel Marsden, one of the two or
three ardent farmers who pioneered the useful animal
in Botany Bay, unconsciously stated the formula by
which Australia mainly is enabled to live at its present
standards:
The ant.... is a small creatnre, yet we see their
numbers uniting: together raising large hiUocks. The
hee <?an carry but a little honey, but In time the
hive is filled. When I consider that we have not
much less than 60,000 sheep in the settlement, and
that these 50,000 sheep will produce while I sleep or
wake as many fleeces of wool, it is a national object
to attend to them.
There are now well over 100 million sheep in the
“colonies” of Australia. They have been steadily
carrying on the processes in which Mr. Marsden
observed them engaged on November 26 (Thanksgiving
Day), 1811. Their labors are taken for granted.
The bees and the ants are running true
to form as a century-and-a-half ago. But the
Australian isn’t. He doesn’t even fully realise where
his prosperity comes from ; that in the main he is
very largely living on an allowance from the Merino
and the crossbred, and that, if his benefactor’s business
*'6o nhlu#\
Wool cvft°7
THE AUSTRALIAN SANTA CLAUS
goes bung through failing markets and stress of com-
petition, he will be in the same position as many a
remittance-man when Britain’s fountains of aristocratic
prosperity began to dry up.
There is at present something like a new boom in
progress. But who reflects that it is basically due to the
fact that wool is on a good footing, and that already
less than half the season’s clip has brought in £l6O
million? The thought might extend to what we are
going to get out of the spending as it proceeds.
On present showing (though wise restrictions will
be a brake on any import boom) the product of the
extra cash looks likely to be fatter bookmakers and
dealers in luxuries, a fatter Taxation Department—
and another lift in basic wages, with a rise in prices
hard on its heels. Perhaps it isn’t a very cheerful
subject to think of in Christmas week; but it is about
the only week in the year when the politicians go home
and Australians can hear themselves think.
The High Cost of Faction
At break-up in most schools of these recent days some
important citizen has been there to tell the young
idea the value of co-operation for national, or at least
communal, progress and prosperity. The team-spirit, for
combination and organised initiative.
The big chief of the A.W.U. returned from U.S.A.
some 12 months ago with enthusiastic impressions of
the benefit all round from co-operation in American
industries between managers and workers. Profit-
making was obviously a mutual concern. The
A.C.T.U., rival of the A.W.U. for power over unionism
in Australia, received the news sourly, and little more
has been heard of making bread with this yeast.
Federal secretary of the Electrical Trades Union,
just back from an 1.L.0. conference in Europe, is the
latest convert in our local political class-war to the
idea that the workers will gain by increasing pro-
ductive effort. The trade-union contentment he saw
in Sweden worked the spell with him ; high production
there resulted, he told the A.C.T.U., in both good condi-
tions for the workers and prosperity for the country,
At which the wharfies’ representative on that body
sneered that he was only “trying to mislead the workers.”
“We have got to bring down our high costs,”
said Viscount Bruce to his fellow-countrymen the
other day. “Governments cannot do the job. We, the
people, have got to do it ourselves. Employers and
employees should get down to the problem together,
and having made their plans, ask Governments to co-
operate in carrying them out.” Heads of all Empire
Governments have concocted in conference some
scheme for inciting and encouraging that very sort of
effort. “Empty words,” comments the Federal
“Labor” leader ; “vague generalities full of plati-
hides.” The cart, he urges, must go before the horse,
“Full employment first, and conciliation and consul-
tation afterwards.”
The “Labor” remedy for high costs, as delivered
by this oracle, is that the Commonwealth Government
should co-pperat© with everybody, including State
Governments, by issuing unlimited bank-credit on
demand. “It is perfectly simple... .for a Government
with the will and the heart to do it.” 'Dien this
beautiful picture from him who despises platitudes:
By advancing and balancing its economy Australia
could contribute to the happiness of its people, the
security and happiness of the British Commonwealth
and the whole world.
Advance Australia fair, balance your economy by just
printing all the money anybody wants, and lead the
world out of its problems! Santa Claus isn’t in it.
AH political parties in this country protest a moral
belief in the United Nations, a facsimile of that
“Parliament of man, the federation of the world,”
made hackneyed by old-time debaters in every school
of arts in the land. They “support U.N.0.,” as they
say. They “support” co-operation by members of the
British Commonwealth. But co-operation on any
national job of work within Australia appears to be
anathema to these same parties, A world Parliament
and federation on the Australian model would not
only make world war certain, but would also banish
even interludes of peace. In the industrial “class-war,”
the jealousies of State against State and the perpetual
antagonism of States against the Commonwealth
which the Australian temper seems to accept as one
of the political benefits of federation —in all these
there is nothing to warrant belief in co-operation
between Australians and any other peoples for any
civilised international purpose whatever. Xenophobia
is the appropriate accompanying disease to the
domestic wrangling over every political and industrial
issue. Under the law of the land there cannot be
even an award settling what wages shall be paid for
a day’s work without first “creating a dispute.”
Doctors agree that the morbidity of the current
generation, for all its high standard of living, is
alarmingly high. The same could be said of our
politics and industrial relations. Like the hypo-
chondriac, they enjoy bad health. The one is impotent,
the other as a rule sour; and both are absurdities in that
all concerned seem to prefer to carry on in that way.
If any Australian demands to have particulars
of this indictment let him look back and scrutinise
more closely than he did at the time the claptrap with
which “Labor” politicians, posing as financial
economists, won over the swinging voters at recent
elections and by-elections. Then let him trace the
rising cost-spiral over the past five years, observe the
value deliberately drained out of the pound by the
institution of 40 hours’ work (in practice about 33
hours’ work) for 44 hours’ pay in 1947, the Chifley
Government’s devaluation of the pound by 30 per cent,
in September, 1949, and the gratuitous “prosperity”-
loading of the basic wage by an extra £1 in 1950
and ask himself what action he would take, or would
wish Governments to take on his behalf, to stop this
process, which has been automatically raising wages and
costs, to the peril of his employment, every quarter.
It is no use his blaming the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment. Alone it can do little. But all Gov-
ernments acting in unison could stop the thing in its
tracks. The snag—the same old snag—is the need for
co-operation.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor's" Flexible Trust
Dr. Evatt has opened in Brisbane (he
says) the Senate elections of next year, or
perhaps of three years ahead. Actually
he is being sent on tour of the State
by the A.L.P. executive to deliver the
prescribed line of talk for every State
“Labor” party, and Mr. Calwell went
with him so that he, too, should be
guilty of no “deviationism” —not to say
flat contradictions of his leader —on points
of policy.
What Dr. Evatt is so assiduously
peddling is his grand new Sydney-made
flexible trust. Its working depends upon
ample paper-credit, unlimited credulity
and a refusal to answer awkward ques-
tions. The beneficiaries need subscribe
nothing but votes for “Labor” and are
guaranteed the right to live on tick for
so long as they vote the right way. Since
every pensioner will be guaranteed the
equivalent of the living-wage at whatever
figure wages may reach, it will be obvi-
ously no essential condition to “full em-
ployment,” financed on “credit expan-
sion which will be sufficient and certain
to assure it,” that any “worker” should
work harder than he feels inclined for
“full-employment” wages.
The obstacle in the way of this grand
route to prosperity is at present the
Menzies Government. Its economic
measures, says Dr. Evatt, are directly
responsible for denial of the human rights
of every voting-age Australian to enjoy
the benefits of money for nothing. The
Menzies Government he charges with
having “tripped up the States’ works pro-
grammes” for expenditure of hundreds
of millions of non-existent loan-funds,
“undermined public confidence” in such
' “vital development” and restricted bank
credit to the needy—all in the name of
checking inflation. It is “scandalous”
that a Government should be allowed to
live which cannot understand that the
proper cure of inflation is more inflation.
On the last occasion Queensland heard
a “Labor” leader on the electioneering
stump it was the late Ben Chifley, the
mention of whose name is still the only
thing that will lower Dr. Evatt’s voice.
In the 1951 election campaign, while Dr.
Evatt, at Bondi, was belting the Menzies
Government because it “has no plan to
meet the economic disaster of inflation
threatening us,” Mr. Chifley was telling
his audience at Rockhampton; “Infla-
tion cannot be tackled by half-measures ;
unpopular measures will be necessary if
inflation is to be controlled.” This line
of the Government’s duty he plugged
right across the continent to Perth, where
he declared:
The whole community, except the very
rich, will be crushed by the weight of in-
flation run wild. Mere return of a “Labor”
Government will not, however, cure the
inflationary evil. That will need hard
work, great courage and fairly drastic
measures, with the co-operation of the
trades-union movement to achieve that
goal.
That was Mr. Chifley in 1951 on what
would be done if “Labor” were returned
to power. While “Labor” had been in
power Mr. Chifley as Prime Minister
stuck to his stand that
We cannot give the people social benefits
and, social security and pay for them out
of bank credits. The money must be pro-
vided out of taxation.
But since Dr. Evatt feels obliged to
vilify the Menzies Government for doing
much that Mr. Chifley said must be
done, he is now saying that hard work and
drastic measures are out of date—that the
only thing necessary is courage to flood
the country with paper-money.
Eisenhower's Realism
One of the happiest auguries in inter-
national affairs is the new sanity and
knowledgeableness which seem to be
influencing world pblicy since the advent
of General Eisenhower. He will bring
to that office for the first time in long
years a real experience of international
conditions —probably only surpassed by
that of veteran members of the British
Ministry.
His statement on Korea was indicative
of sanity and realism. People associated
with the defence of Korea on the spot
talk as the General talked, and not as
the airy believers in the U.N.O.
Assembly and at Washington have talked
while thin pretence has been kept up
that something can come of the
“peace” parleys with the Communist
emissaries —parleys which have resulted
in nothing save to allow the enemy time
to build himself a fortress line and com-
pletely blot out all opposition in the por
tion of North Korea which he occupies
General Eisenhower says that his tour
“■marks not the end but the beginning
of a new effort to conclude honorably this
phase of the global struggle.” This in
itself is significant. And he adds that
“this is not the moment to state
more than that resolve, for we face
an enemy whom we cannot hope to
impress by words, however eloquent, but
only by deeds—executed under circum-
stances of our own choosing.”
This is the sort of language under-
stood in Moscow) where they also
understand his dictum that “no
more in Korea than anywhere else in the
world is honorable peace beyond the
power of free men to achieve when they
pursue it intelligently and energetically.”
But Moscow scorns and openly laughs
at “honorable” means ; expediency is the
only guide to Communism. It openly
preaches that whatever serves the cause
of the party is right, and that even crime
is only wrong when it interferes with
Communist discipline and plans.
There is an ominous note about the
incoming President’s statement that the
simple purpose of his trip was “to look,
listen and learn, so that the experience
and knowledge of the U.N. soldiers on
the scene” might be his “future guide in
these matters,” and that “at the very
least” this knowledge “prepares us for
whatever tough tasks may lie ahead.” He
concluded that “a free citizenry, expect-
ing its soldiers honorably to face the
enemy, must itself honorably face reality,”
part of which is, he says, that everyone
must recognise in both thinking and plan-
ning that the Korean war is
only the most dramatic and painful phase
for us at this moment, of our world-wide
struggle against Communist aggression.
General Eisenhower appears to be
clear in his view that the Asian
scene is secondary in world defence
—a view which this paper has preached
for years ; that Europe is the immediate
danger-point in which a mortal blow
could be struck at civilisation in a few
hours ; but that the whole problem of
defence is global and the concern of
every part of every Power on earth en-
dangered by Russian aggression. Thus
it seems possible that the “fundamental
propositions” discussed between the
Anzus Pact countries of the British Com-
monwealth in London last week may be
the first step towards turning that local tea-
party into a Pacific edition of Nato,
with all interested nations taking part. If
that can be achieved it will be a great
step forward.
Game or Circus?
Some Sydney cricket-writers are a garru-
lous and impervious lot. In their attacks
on the Australian selectors, on the Cricket
Board of Control and on a visiting South
African team and the Australian teams
selected to play them they’ve been con-
founded so often in the past few weeks
that they must have the traditional hide
of Jessie the elephant to keep on.
They laughed at the quality of the
S’Africans, and when the S’Africans
got to within 96 runs of the Australian
total (after having last use of the
notoriously tricky Brisbane pitch) they
turned round and condemned the Aus-
tralian side. The match itself was dis-
graced by an exhibition of larrikinism
from the crowd, which was responding
to the cricket-writers’ surly parochialism
instead of the cricket.
Earlier these writers had practically
demanded that a 35-year-old cricketer
should be included in the Australian Test
team, and worked up a public outcry in
Sydney because he wasn’t. Later they
jeered at the captain of an Australian
XI because of his age, which is four or
five years under that of their protege.
This same protege they dropped like a
hot coal after a display on the Adelaide
Oval.
There was more, including another
larrikin display from a crowd at Sydney
Cricket Ground. It all arose from the
notion these gentlemen entertain that they
are the arbiters of the game and because
Sydney pride was assumed to be wounded
at the spectacle of despised Victorians
outnumbering the wondrous N. S. Welsh
in the Test side.
Critics of this sort plead that they have
the good of the game at heart, and usually
infer that the selectors and the board are
a lot of narrow-minded old narks. All
of them seem to forget that it was because
of earlier players who thought they could
dictate to selectors that the board was
created. Anyone who doubts its neces-
sity need only read the tripe published
in the sporting columns to know that
without a controlling authority cricket
would degenerate into the kind of circus
these writers apparently want.
Luckily, there are still cricket-reporters
who set out to describe a match and do
it faithfully and well. By comparison,
the writing of the other kind is like the
cackling of a disturbed hen-house.
Unemployment Humbug
This ranting about calamity because of
an “unemployed pool of over 100,000”
is still wishful —very wishful —thinking
on the part of “Labor” politicians. Latest
statistics show that the increase in appli-
cations for unemployment benefits for
November was 1781, the lowest since
May, and the last week of November
recorded the first decrease in the total.
Correspondingly, jobs available with
Commonwealth employment services in-
creased from 567<? to 6749, and the
average weekly number of those placed
in jobs from 4253 to 4791.
Employment levels in the larger fac-
tories of N.S.W. and Victoria rose in
October, and were lifted further in
November.
In issuing these figures Labor Minister
Holt said the increased applications for
employment in November were prin-
cipally from prospective school-leavers
registering. A distinct feature of the drop
in unemployment-benefit applications was
that of over 400 in Sydney.
The decline in numbers employed dur-
ing the past 12 months is wickedly exag-
gerated. The Associated Chambers of
Commerce issued a statement on the posi-
tion last week which condemns both
political parties for “abuse of statistics.”
It finds the level of unemployment at
somewhere between the figures of the
two sides. “Even if the figure of 85,300
for last September is taken as the drop
in employment since November, 1951,”
the statement continues:
This number is still little more than the
number recorded as unemployed at the
1947 census, 83,800 when that census was
taken, yet no great concern was felt for
the future, as prospects were very good.
Today prospects are equally good, but
there are those who presage from the un-
employment returns a depression as bad as
the early ’thirties.
Such talk is unrealistic and harmful to
to the community.
Dr. Evatt is calamity-howling about
“an unemployment pool” of 85,000 to-
day (and he calls it 140,000). The “un-
employment pool” when his own Govern-
ment was in mid-career, he is thus re-
minded, was 83,000, and he showed no
concern about it whatever.
Teachers and Education
N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation wants a
royal commission on education in its
State. But could a commission do
much for State education? The Cahill
Government of N.S.W., while it may be
guilty of many sins of omission and com-
mission, is only partly to blame for the
condition of the State schools and the
State education system generally.
It may comfort the federation to reflect
that what has been gained in State educa-
tion has been gained in the face of general
public indifference. There are several
reasons for this, among the more im-
portant ones being the fact that educa-
tion is free and compulsory and that its
administration is centralised (teachers
themselves regard service in country
schools as. a sort of penance or appren-
ticeship leading to a city school). Public
indifference, naturally, leads to political
indifference.
The federation, although it has done
much for teachers in the matter of pay
and conditions, has done little in recent
years save create public antipathy towards
teachers. In its years of Communist
domination the federation as a whole
tamely allowed its name to be used in
all sorts of Communist stunts and propa-
ganda. Its members ought to have known
—if ever they took the trouble to talk
to parents —that Communism is alien to
Australians. They ought to have known,
too, that when public opinion really stirred
itself about Communism, as it has done
lately, all organisations linked with Com-
munism would be discredited.
This isn’t to say that education doesn’t
need reform and improvement. It does.
But before the federation talks about
royal commissions it should examine its
own soul. Its public statements and many
of its resolutions of the past few years
have made it suspect by loyal Australians.
If it has really sloughed off its pol-
itical skin it should say so in a very
loud and determined voice. Because the
public won’t take any notice of it until
it restores public confidence in itself.
Correction From the
Caribbean
France has followed South Africa in
telling the Disunited Nations General
Assembly, seeking to interfere in her
domestic affairs in Tunisia, to mind its
own business. It is to be hoped tha
Britain, Australia, New Zealand, U.S.A
and Belgium will give the same answe
to the latest U.N.O. “series of resolu-
tions” seeking to superimpose U.N.O
authority over administrations of all oi:
them.
These resolutions included one de-
manding a plebiscite of local populations
to make sure they enjoy from the white
races all the political security and
opportunity for peaceful self-development
which the trustee nations cannot yet re-
gain for themselves. The majority carry-
ing the resolutions included the Carib-
bean “greaser” States living still by the
culture of the Spanish Main ; the minor
dictator-States of South America which
must commonly rely upon Army mutinies
to bring about any change of Govern-
ment ; Soviet Russia and its satellites,
where the only popular choice in human
rights is between keeping quiet and being
shot by police in the back of the neck ;
and the various coteries of Asians.
If India can reject with contumely
U.N.O. mediation in Kashmir, if Israel
can cock a snook at it (and get away with
the murder of U.N.O.’s eminent envoy
in Jerusalem) over. the still-unfinished
war with the Arab States, if the Com-
munist bloc is allowed to shout-down
every U.N.O. inquiry about the millions
in the slave-camps of Siberia —why
should Britain, at the behest of this mob,
have to submit to a U.N.O. plebiscite
about her right to suppress a rebellion
financed by foreign gold in Kenya, or
Australia be obliged to take a referendum
among the remotest villagers in New
Guinea on the state of their (assumed)
discontent over delays in the advance-
ment of their political education?
The only encouraging feature in this
stupid provocation of discontent and dis-
sension is that U.N.O. is rapidly making
itself too ridiculous for its resolutions to
be worth notice. The North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation is fast taking over
from where U.N.O. falls down, and it
does not have to placate either a
Vyshinsky or some mulatto in Costa Rica
before it can declare its intentions.
Farewell to Dredgery
“Abdul Assiz”; One day last month
the H.A.M. 301 carried its last load of
Hunter River silt past Nobby’s for
dumping in the open sea. It returned to
port with all flags flying.
The display of bunting was completely
justified, both on the part of the crew
of the dredge and of the owners —Hol-
landse Aannening Maatschappij—as they
had not only fulfilled their contractual
liability to lift two million cubic yards
of silt from the shipping-lanes of New-
castle Harbor, but, for good measure,
they had substantially exceeded that
amount. Moreover, they had completed
the job in less than 70 per cent, of the
time stipulated (with, in fact, 15 weeks
in hand).
But Newcastle cannot look upon the
termination of this contract with any
jubilation, and its commercial interests
regard the refusal to extend the employ-
ment of this efficient unit as a calamity.
The port is now faced with the problem
of maintaining the depth of its channels
with the unaided help of its motley,
publicly-owned fleet, only one unit of
which has not reached the last stages of
senile decay.
This two-year-old boat —the much-
vaunted Richard Vowell —has proved
itself incapable of competing with the
H.A.M. 301, and it is doubtful if the
depth of the important Steelworks
Channel can be maintained at 25ft., a
depth almost entirely due to the efforts
of the Dutch dredge. It is even less likely
that it can be increased to 30ft., which
would allow some safety-margin in the
almost certain event of a recurrence of
flooding.
The position, in fact, is worse than it
appears to the casual observer, for the
width of the main channels is now only
250 ft., as compared with the pre-flood
375 ft., and the harbor shipping-lanes and
the Basin cut are now so narrow that
the erection of a “control tower” at
Nobby’s is considered necessary to
enforce one-way traffic with the object
of avoiding collisions.
The Dutch dredge worked 22 hours a
day for five days a week, and the crew
(Continued on page 7)


carried out routine maintenance on Satur-
days and Sundays, while the Richard
Vo well was nominally on duty for two
shifts of eight hours each for five days a
week, with one shift on Saturdays ; most
of that time for the last couple of months
having been spent tied up for “its annual
overhaul without detriment to harbor-
dredging,” in the words of the district-
engineer of the Public Works Department.
The all-in cost of the Dutch dredging
to the State Government has been just
above £337,000, or rather less than 3s. 4d.
a ton of silt actually removed and dis-
posed of. This is well below the gross
cost of dredging by the Government-
owned fleet, even allowing a minimum
for repairs and overhauls (which are very
frequent) and for depreciation.
POLITICAL POINTS
CahilTs decision to go to the people
on February 14, although by the book
he could have carried on for another six
months, indicates that he feels his party
has reached the crest of the wave and
that postponement would lessen rather
than improve his chances. That a Gov-
ernment with the sorry record of N. S.
Wales “Labor” should be seeking an early
election is a paradox, or would be if it
intended to fight the election on its
achievements. The truth is that Cahill,
having successfully won by-elections by
blaming the Federal Government for his
own crowd’s shortcomings, plans to win
a general election with the same story.
On present indications it looks as if his
tactics are sound.
It is not so much that “Labor” is on
the crest of the wave as that the Liberal-
C.P. coalition is in the trough, largely
through unpopular measures it has been
forced to take to save the economy of
the country from going completely hay-
wire. There are indications —the slow-
ing-down of basic-wage increases and
levelling-off of prices—that these measures
are beginning to achieve stability, in
which case “Labor’s” calamity-howling of
the past few months will be shown up
for the fraud it is. Some glimmerings
of this, rather than the Coronation com-
plications of which he speaks, probably
influenced Cahill in going for an early
poll.
A similar fear possibly accounts for
Evatt taking the unprecedented step of
commencing his Senate campaign six
months before election-day.
• •
When Evatt and Calwell took the stand
together at the Brisbane City Hall the
platform was cluttered up with “Labor”
Senators, M.H.R.s and M.L.A.s —40 of
’em, the “Courier-Mail” estimated. This
was just as well; it left no room for a
television-set to force its way in and break
up the party.
• •
Those “private sources” from which
Evatt gets his “reliable figures” on un-
employment have been letting him down.
In Brisbane he placed the number at
100.000, but four weeks ago when he was
campaigning in Werriwa he spoke of
140.000. If the position has really im-
proved to that extent in a month the Doc.
will have to find another subject for his
qrocodile-tears.
• •
In deciding on the Queen’s new titles
the Prime Ministers seem to have adopted
the banal phrase “Head of the Common-
wealth” solely to placate India, which
doesn’t know whether it is inside or
outside the Commonwealth, being in it
for any benefits that are going, but out-
side for all other purposes—even to the
extent of proclaiming in advance
neutrality in any war that may involve the
Commonwealth.
Mark Twain once said that the British
were mentioned in the Bible, and, to prove
it, quoted: “Blessed are the meek, for
they shall inherit the earth.” In the last
few years meekness has worked in the
opposite direction; the word “British”
was dropped from “British Common-
wealth” to please India, after the Empire
had become a Commonwealth to satisfy
the consciences of Socialists and others
for whom the word “empire” had a mean-
ing obscurely obscene.
• •
Final counting and distribution of
preferences in the Victorian election
made the composition of the House:
“Labor,” 37 ; Country party, 12 ; L.C.P.,
11 ; Hollway Libs., 4 ; and one Indepen-
dent Labor. Three of the four seats in
which prefs, had kept the result in
doubt went the way expected—Brighton
to the Hollway candidate, Tovell; Hamp-
den to L.C.P. deputy-leader Bolte (by a
narrow margin of 72), and Toorak, on
Lady Brookes’s preferences, to the sitting
L.C.P. member, H. R. Petty.
In Ivanhoe, where it had looked as
though the Independent Leonard would
win on Liberal Block’s preferences, things
didn’t turn out that way. When deposit-
loser Bell’s votes were distributed they
had the effect of pushing Block into
second place above Leonard. Leonard’s
preferences then gave the seat to Lucy
and “Labor.”
• •
This is Cain’s third term as Premier,
and the first in which he has faced Par-
liament with an unquestioned majority.
His first Premiership, in September, 1943,
interrupted for five days the long reign
of Albert Dunstan; his second lasted
exactly two years—from November 21,
1945, to November 20, 1947. Earlier he
had been a Minister under Prendergast
and Hogan, and he has been a member
of the Victorian Assembly since 1917,
• •
Eight of Cain’s 14-men Cabinet were
in his 1945 team. Besides the leader they
are L. W. Galvin (Deputy-Premier and
Chief Secretary), W. P. Barry (Health),
P, L. Coleman (Transport), A. M. Fraser
(Labor and Mines), T. Hayes (Housing),
W. Slater (Attorney-General and Prices)
and C. P. Stoneham (Development and
Decentralisation). Newcomers are J. W.
Galbally (Electricity and Forests), R. W.
Holt (Lands and Soldier Settlement), S.
Merrifield (Public Works), A, E.
Shepherd (Education), R. Scully
(Assistant for Electricity) and J. Smith
(Assistant for Lands), As before, Cain
will look after the Treasury. When last
in power Cain got along with a team of
twelve, and McDonald managed with the
same number. Mac. didn’t have much
choice—after choosing his Cabinet there
was hardly anyone left for the rank-and-
file —but with 37 Assemblymen and 15
M.L.C.s Cain had to find jobs for the
full number allowed by the rules. Even
then there were several left out who fell
sure they were the stuff of which Ministers
are made,
• •
Californian astronomers have reported
a huge explosion in outer space, and say
that two huge bodies of gas exploded.
It was 100 million light-years away, so
it couldn’t have been the Federal
Treasurer and the Leader of the Federal
Opposition bumping into each other.
• •
A Sydney Sunday paper ran a “big
story” to the effect that the N.S.W. police
had been instructed to confiscate and ban
all “one-armed bandits” in ail non-
proprietary clubs. Another Sunday paper
mildly denied it. Next day, uneasy golf-,
bowls-, returned-soldier- and other club
committees nearly threw a sixer when
somebody wrote to a morning daily
pleading with the Government not to do
such a dreadful thing. The Cahill Gov-
ernment must have thrown nearly a
double-sixer, for it was just about to an-
nounce an election coming up in
February. Chief Secretary Kelly made it
known that the machines would not be
banned, and club treasurers breathed
again.
• •
Menzies announced that since it meant
very “delicate negotiations” before “full
convertibility” of Empire finance could
be achieved, it was impossible to publish
“even an outline of the proposals.” The
same day Evatt accused Menzies of
“broadcasting the vaguest platitudes.”
Does this mean that in Menzies’s place
Evatt would be the doctor who tells?
• •
Beer-strikes have never been popular —
except with the prohibitionists—and the
one staged in Melbourne by the
F.E.D.F.A. was no exception. On
November 21 Melbourne Trades Hall
appealed to the unions for funds to assist
those affected by the strike —“affected”
meant those who had lost their jobs, not
those who were merely missing out on
their beer. There are several hundred
thousand trade-unionists in Victoria; the
appeal produced £7O 55., of which £5O
came from one union.
• •
Eric Harrison last week foreshadowed
legislation designed to prevent the nation-
alisation of any industry without the con-
sent of the people by referendum,
“Labor’s” reaction to the bill should be
interesting; as a party claiming to be the
only real democrats in the land they surely
cannot object to consulting the people on
matters they consider vital to the lives
of the people.
• •
Dr. lan Clunies-Ross, on speech-night
at Melbourne High, deploring Melbourne
radio-stations’ addiction to horse-racing:
On Saturday nothing can happen on the
broadcasting - stations —no matter how
important —without interruptions for racing-
results or starting-prices or some other
blessed thing about some knock-kneed
horse. Half the broadcasting programmes
on Saturday night are devoted to trotting
and music, with the music only as inter-
vals between the trotting. That could not
be matched in any other city of the same
size and responsibility anywhere else in the
world.
Except, of course, Sydney.
• •
Sydney “Sun” sent a reporter to check
on the use of the pedestrian subway the
Cahills built under College-street, near
St. Mary’s Cathedral. Of 400 people
observed, 83 used the subway, 65 crossed
by a marked surface crossing and 250
navigated according to their own fancy.
The subway cost £48,000, slightly more
than double the original estimate, and
nobody seems to know who asked for it,
anyway.
• •
The Ivanhoe result is an example of
the vagaries of the preferential-voting
system. At the end of the primary count
the votes were:
Lucy (Lab.) 14,803
Leonard (Ind.) 9,062
Block (L.C.P.) 8,423
Bell (Ind.) 1,372
Bell’s preferences distributed thus: Block,
964; Leonard, 288 ; Lucy, 120. There is
no way of knowing for certain how Bell’s
third preferences went, but on the figures
above it is reasonable to assume that,
Bell having been eliminated, a majority
of his supporters would have preferred
both Block and Leonard to - Lucy.
Leonard finished 37 votes behind Block,
which meant that he dropped out. Nine-
teen more votes would not only have
kept him in the race; they would have
given him the seat, as Block’s second
preferences would have ultimately come
his way. And the 19 preferences didn’t
have to come from Lucy’s share, but from
Block’s. In effect, Lucy won the seaj
because more anti-Lucy votes went to
Block, who at that stage couldn’t win,
than to Leonard, who could.
• •
Evatt wants it both ways, as usual. In
one breath he says the Menzies Govern-
ment has increased taxation by 50 per
cent, and in another he says that the
value of this and all other money has
been reduced through inflation by 100
per cent On what money-values does
every State “Labor” Government levy its
motor-vehicle taxes, stamp-taxes, succes-
sion duties, and impose its charges for
railway and all other services—l 949
values or 1952 values?
• •
Answering a Socialist question in the
Japanese House of Representatives on
whether Japan would renew normal diplo-
matic relations with Soviet Russia and
Communist China, Prime Minister
Yoshida said: “Moscow and Peking are
broadcasting to Japan with the purpose
of disturbing the public peace. In the
Soviet Union hundreds of thousands of
Japanese are still detained. Until these
circumstances are changed Japan cannot
have any formal diplomatic relations
with these countries.”
• •
After what was described as “the
biggest representative meeting in Alice
Springs” had promised financial support
to keep the A.I.M. hostel there afloat the
A.I.M. Board has decided to keep it open
for another three months “to determine
whether sufficient local support can be
obtained.” So if the Alice and the sur-
rounding Territory wants the hostel all
they have to do is feed it.
• •
A Sydney suburban council put fresh
tar here and there where holes had
appeared in the joins of a concrete road.
Next day a motor-truck appeared with
about a yard of coarse sand. It pulled up
wherever fresh tar showed, the driver got
out and leaned on the nearest fence while
his companion threw a few shovelfuls of
sand over the tar. Then both got back
in the cabin and the truck went on to
the next spot. That is what Dr. Evatt
means when he talks about “full employ-
ment” —two men to do what one could
easily do. It matters neither to Evatt
nor his followers that council-rates have
skyrocketed. “Full employment” is the
policy, and ratepayers and taxpayers can
expect to pay for it.
• •
“X.S.”: After the wettest winter on
record grass is standing head-high in
many parts of Victoria, and in the
mountains rich green pastures run into
the State forests. The first blast of
summer will turn these pastures into
gigantic fuses, and any day now a cigar-
ette-butt thrown out of a car could start
it blazing. In the forests men are digging
covered trenches and filling dugouts and
tunnels with food and water, and Forestry
officers are making firebreaks. Official
spokesmen say that Victoria has never
had so much or such up-to-date equip-
ment as it has now, but the Forestry Com-
mission has only half as many men as it
had last year.
• •
Wide-awake chaps, these railway
officials! The N.S.W. lot has given
Railways Commissioner Winsor “a plan”
to save the railways or something.
They’ve discovered, though it apparently
escaped the State Auditor-General, that
the railways have made an annual average
profit of £5 million since 1945, but that
“interest payments and other costs have
turned it into a deficit.” Their solution:
Relieve the burden of interest payments.
This is a marvellous idea; perhaps it
ought to be extended.
• •
“A.L.D.”: According to the Rev.
Gordon Powell, the introduction of tele-
vision in England had coincided with “the
biggest drift from the churches and the
biggest increase in crime for 100 years.”
On the other hand, in U.S.A. there had
been “the greatest revival of religion in
the history of the country.” In England
television is a monopoly of the 8.8. C.,
in U.S.A, it is in the hands of private
enterprise; but I leave it to Evatt and
Calwell to sort out the implications of
that.
• •
A brief note from the U.S. Commerce
Department states that Japan made
“huge” gains in world markets in 1951,
when she nearly doubled her 1950 figures,
and that she has held the gains all the
way through 1952. What do we care?
We’ve got the 40-hour week with week-
end penalty rates, anything from eight
to ten public lotteries a week, and the
highest consumption of beer per head in
the world,
• •
The South Australian Third Party In-
surance Premiums Committee has an-
nounced that in January third-party risk
in that State will jump from £3 to £4 2s.
for private cars in Adelaide (30s. to 425.
in the country); from £3 10s, to £4 17s.
6d. for motor-bikes (country, 30s. to
425.); and from £32 10s, to £4O for taxis,
with proportionate rises for other
vehicles. South Australian motorists may
comfort themselves with the thought that
it’s still cheaper to have an accident in
their State than elsewhere.
• •
The closing stages of the Bradfield
campaign were marked by Mr. Hardie
levelling against Mr. Turner the two
accusations that he was merely a yes-man
for the Liberal party and that his party
executive had forbidden him to address
public meetings unless accompanied by a
Federal Minister because he had said
things they didn’t approve of. The two
charges seemed somewhat in conflict, but
what’s the good of being an Independent
if you can’t be independent of such things
as logic?
Right up to his final speech Hardie
insisted on acting as if he were fighting
Fadden for the Macpherson seat rather
than Turner and others for Bradfield.
Still, there was a difference; if Mac-
pherson had been the venue he’d have
had S’Artie answering him back.
Owing to poor liaison-work between
Santa Claus and the electoral depart-
ment polling was still in progress in
Bradfield when this went to the printer.
The Bulletin extends its congratula-
tions to the winner and seasonal greetings
to all the losers.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Tan-tallam”: It was Christmas Eve,
1944, and my unit was making the most
of its carefully-hoarded grog-ration,
saved up for the occasion for months pre-
viously. Rostered as duty N.C.O. for the
night, I had to take charge of the
dispatches to be delivered to Darwin air-
port, 60 miles away, in time to catch the
2 a.m. plane. Regulations required that
a driver should be provided so that the
N.C.O. could give full attention to pro-
tecting his charge. At about midnight,
after a miserably sober evening, I hunted
up the not-so-sober adjutant and inquired
about a driver for the trip. He staggered
off, promising to see what he could find.
About 15 minutes later he was back, and
proudly remarked; “Well, Corporal, there
isn’t a shober—er, sober driver in camp,
but it will be quite all right. I’ve got
you two half-shober ones!” Perhaps my
logic wasn’t equal to the adjutant’s
arithmetic; I drove the jeep myself, with
both drivers snoring loudly on the top
of the precious cargo in the back,
❖ ❖ *
“Jasby”: Footpath-serawlers aren’t all
inspired by political motives. On my
way to the station this morning I read
this message: “B. is coming to stay for
4 weeks.” A little further along this was
"Stephen! Even if you think so, you shouldn’t say so!"
amnlified Inin “Rorkaro • „ ■ ,
stay for 4 weeks ” Before 1 l°
reflect on the note of mvrmc untile t 0
implicit in the scrawl Tea.mtit P atl on
a third messavi Zti K
hand. This one said “Barbara ic c
to stav for 4 day's Bv nrHe ” j mm £
oose in the « V 1
reputation for mnrtMn cn^k^ar* 8
1 should have rubber! nut in r S P ltallty
1 c ,ast mes ’
sage, but I didn’t. After all, it may b
better for all concerned for Barbara t
know just exactly where she stands.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Sack”: A German-bred New Aussi
of my acquaintance is mildly amused
the popularity of a current song-hit whic
has as its motif “auf wiedersehen.” Jus
prior to World War I, he explains, th
usual farewell in Germany had becom
“adieu.” With the hostilities came a re
newed wave of Prussian patriotism
“adieu” was of French origin and there
fore odious; “auf wiedersehen” being
purely German, it became the universa
expression. Today a British singe
records the song with a chorus of her
country’s servicernen, and there are
rumors of the ditty being unofficially
adopted by the R.A.F. as a sort oi
melody-mascot. But it is doubtfu
whether the lyric makes sense to a gooc
percentage of its warblers ; least of al
to the Sydney shopkeeper who, advertis-
ing the record with a sign in his win-
dow, put an apostrophe and an “s” in the
title and made it “Auf Wiedersehen’s
Sweetheart.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Hugh Galleon”: Rarest decoration o:
World War II was a chocolate-colorec
ribbon with two narrow red-and-blue
stripes at each end. To the best of my
knowledge only one man ever received
it, and it was my pleasure and privilege
to be present at his investiture, which
took place at a sergeants’ mess in
Madang early in 1945. The ribbon was
awarded to our sar’-major for the con-
spicuous bravery and determination of
his nightly single-handed expeditions
over a long period into particularly
dangerous territory—the sisters’ mess of
the near-by base hospital. Known as
“The Staff-nurse Star,” the ribbon was
clipped from an Army nurse’s hat-band.
*> <*
“Ceg”: Any Diggers of World War I
remember Smithy, the host of the
Leather Bottle Inn near Cobham Hall,
in Kent? He used to wear a little
woollen cap with which he would mop-
up the beer-slops from the counter; then
he’d wring it out and replace it on his
head. A photo I have shows him hold-
ing the old sign which for so many years
swung over the door of the inn—a small
barrel-shaped leather bottle. The Leather
Bottle was the place where Mr. Pickwick
discovered Tracy Tupman plying himself
with roast fowl, bacon and ale in an
effort to drown the fit of misanthropy
induced by the faithless Rachel Wardle.
Many were the suppers of cold venison
and apple-pie which Smithy served in
the Dickens Room and many the gallon
° f punch the old cha P brewed in a
Ucepan as he crouc hed over the fire.
He told me the recipe was one evolved by
D,cken s. Then there were the big
® ardie nware mugs, with the picture of
r - Pickwick on them, in which Smithy
s f rved “sophisticated Kentish ale.” On
the wall, framed, was “Honorificuscan-
tltuhula” or some such code word. This
was the sobriety test. If a customer
could not pronounce it, he got no more
punch.
*** ♦♦♦ ***
“Billy S.”: For years now, every other
Saturday, I have sallied forth to my bar-
ber, an Italian long resident in Aus-
tralia, I have my hairtut, receive some
tips for the races and a fair helping of
local fags. A couple of haircuts ago he
had a cove helping him, a decidedly New
Australian just out of the cellophane
wrapper. They both crowded around my
cranium while the old hand explained to
the new how I liked my locks shorn. Then
"And that's one of Henry, taken at a fancy-dress ball."
the newchum took over. He turned out
to be a good barber, taking plenty of care,
fretting and fuming over my scanty hair.
I didn’t mind the fretting, but the fuming
proved too much for me, so I have
changed my barber. The chap I patronise
now gives me a very ordinary cut, a
couple of “certs” that run nowhere and
one small packet of fags—but he doesn’t
eat garlic!
♦J-
“H.W.F.”: Read with interest that
many new arrivals are objecting to being
termed “New Australians.” Put it up to
an English friend of mine, of two years’
residence. He took quite a sympathetic
view. “Yes,” he said, “us poms don’t
like it, either. The terms they use to
describe certain types of people are
always insulting. It even happens in the
Old Dart. I had an uncle and they called
him an ‘Old Contemptible.’ It so worried
the poor old chap that he practically com-
mitted suicide—on the Somme in ’sixteen.
My brother was called a ‘Dunkirker.’
Well, you might as well call a bloke a
froggie and be done with it. Take me.
I was in North Africa and I’m really one
of the ‘Rats,’ but I don’t tell anybody or
I’d have the kids yelling ‘New Rat’ at me
in the street.”
♦*<- ♦+♦
“Cheefee”: In a “Red Page” review
(B. 3/12/’52) Wilfred Granville is quoted
as defining “the nut” as “the amount of
money needed from a banker to produce
the show.” I heard this one often when
talking to friends who were spruikers on
the Midway—the Canadian and American
equivalent of Chocolate Alley. There it
was always used in the phrase “over the
nut,” marking the point at which the
cash takings of the show were sufficient
to make it payable. “The Nut” included
travelling costs, cost of prizes and the
hire of paid hands. Often early in the
evening a jubilant Midway friend has
boasted “We’re over the nut already.”
And again it was common to hear, par-
ticularly at country shows in small centres,
“We’re not over the nut yet. Better put
the pins in the pegs,” Then the small
steel pins were slipped into the pegs of
the knock-me-downs, and it became im-
possible for the public to score a com-
plete hit until such time as the show had
paid for itself.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Nero”: With a party of fellow-
undergraduates, I watched the Oxford-
Cambridge boatrace in 1909. As was
the custom in those days, both crews
attended the performance at the Empire,
Leicester-square, a fitting ending to weeks
of strenuous training. My friends and I,
along with many other parties of friends,
attended, too. Those were the closing
days of the famous lounge, though none
of us foresaw that the First War and
the “pitchers” would between them close
M tostilwion as dear to those who
the evening's fun was in order, so, holding
up a passing car, we persuaded the driver
to drive us up Regent-street to Oxford
Circus, where we continued our revels. I
sat on the bonnet, facing the driver. In
1918 I was messing-officer of 31 Squadron,
R.F.C., at Nowshera on the N.W.
frontier. A high-ranking R.F.C. officer
was visiting squadrons in the East, and
on his arrival I took him into the lounge
and offered him a whisky-and-soda. He
looked hard at me. “I’ve seen you be-
fore,” he said. I replied with the defer-
ence due to one of his rank that I could
not remember meeting him. “Oh, yes,”
he said. “I’ve seen you before. You
sat on the bonnet of my car on boatrace
night in 1909!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Obadiah B.”: Itinerant icecream-
sellers have become a Sabbath nuisance
in our suburb. The first one arrives
about 11.30 a.m., the next at 1.30 and
the third about 3.30. My young hopeful
had solved the problem, at least until
1 found him at it. As the second seller
drove down the street he would stand
on the kerb shouting derisively “You’re
too late. You’re too late.” It has evi-
dently had some effect on the icecream
fellow ; he has been getting earlier every
week. I’m looking forward to the Sunday
when he and his rival dead-heat.
❖ * ❖
“Gee Dee”: In my last year at school
my relatives packed into the town hall
to hear the family hope, posing as
Evaristus the Martyr, deliver a one-line
ultimatum. My mate, a fellow-martyr,
distinguished himself on the same night
with the next line, “Blood will be spilt
this night, O Evaristus.” Twelve years
later I was crossing the Coomalie-creek
road, 50 miles from Darwin, when a jeep
tore round the bend and screeched to a
stop, gently nudging my fast-retreating
posterior. With murder in my eye, I
advanced on the jeep’s occupants, but
was disarmed when a voice that prodded
my memory proclaimed “Blood will be
spilt this night, O Evaristus.” It wasn’t
blood that was spilt in the mess that night.
♦♦♦
“Rooster”: Shortage of staff in medical
units at one stage of the war got me
into a strange predicament. As R.A.P.
wallah at a motor-transport training
depot I found myself in control of sick-
parades both for male and female
trainees. Half the time there wasn’t an
M.O. available and often at night there
would be a sudden call to the girls’ lines.
This went on for quite a while ; then
an important personage visiting the depot
—the area big-shot supervising women’s
medical services. We talked politely on
matters of hygiene and administration,
then she asked “Where is the women’s
R.A.P.?” “This is it,” I said. “It’s all
one. I see the men at 6.30 a.m. and
the women at 7 a.m.” Just as I thought
there’d be another patient on my hands,
she recovered sufficiently to remark:
“Well, at least, I’m relieved to hear you
don’t hold mixed parades.” A week
later a trained nurse took over the girls.
TELEVISIONS
Should we or not have television ?
I cannot come to a decision,
Can you ?
How much should plunging-necklines
bare ?
One has to draw the line somewhere.
My hand shakes: There?
No, there . . .
Well, there
Should do.
Must we admit them to our places —
Those old-hands’ hard old Hansard faces
From Parliament ?
Must Bert and other “Labor” kings
Made-up like mud that Eddie slings
Shock us with their unbosomings ?
I won’t consent.
As for the sponsors’ spoliation —
As victims of severe inflation
We wrecks
Should let one formula suffice :
The glamor-girls who advertise
On screens, must ask as low a price
As necks.
N.S-W.
S WILLIAM.


“Worim”: Scripture lesson was in pro-
gress, and we kids were revelling in the
gory details of the severing of John the
Baptist’s head and its subsequent presen-
tation on a charger to that sadistic little
vixen Salome. Young Ross was
slumbering peacefully. He was rudely
awakened when the teacher snapped
“Ross, what would you do if you saw
John the Baptist’s head brought in on
a plate?” Ross let out a horrified yelp
and burst out “Oh, teacher, I wouldn’t
eat any of it.”
“Metax”: Rang up to inquire, for the
umpteenth time, if the waterproof coat
deposited a couple of months earlier had
been repaired yet, and heard a musical
voice pass on my inquiry. “Mr. M
is asking if his coat’s done yet? What’ll
I tell him?” “Say the stuff for it hasn’t
arrived yet,” advised another voice.
Genuine concern was discernible through
the muffled faintness of my answerer’s
"If she jazzed around with nothing on you'd think it Was a
MARVELLOUS show!"
just-audible reply: “Oh, I can’t. I told
him that last time!”
“Curtain Raiser”; I don’t want to add
another cold blanket to the snow, sleet,
floods, gales and freeze that have given
Melbourne the most depressing prologue
to Christmas in its history, but in a spirit
of inquiry I can’t help wondering what
has happened to the Centenary Tower
which was to have decorated Melbourne’s
skyline just as the Olympic stadium and
tower are expected to beautify it round
about 1956. There was the same enthusi-
asm and optimism about the Centenary
erection as there is for the Olympic busi-
ness. The plans were published, the
tower had the official O.K. and it was to
be erected in Sloss-street, South Mel-
bourne. It was to do for Melbourne
what the Eiffel Tower does for Paris.
Its feet were to go down 75ft, into the
ground embedded in 800 tons of con-
crete. On the way up there were to be
cafes, dance-floors, roof-gardens to take
800 dancers, giant telescopes to sweep the
heavens and a light that
would greet Centenary visitors as they
came up Bass Strait. It was confidently
expected that it would attract so many
tourists that the hotel accommodation
would have to be doubled. The steel
alone was to have cost £56,000. The war
and the subsequent housing-shortage must
have caused it to be pigeonholed and
finally forgotten.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pawang”; “The shy gallery-owner
who does not believe in public exhibition
of nude canvases should be consistent in
his views and support my objection to
the ‘nude’ figures in shop-windows and
in plain view of passing schoolboys. Even
in ‘wicked Paris’ windows are curtained
off during alterations to displays on the
figures.” Thus writes a Melbourne
“Sun-Pix” reader anent the recent cast-
ing into outer darkness of a picture from
an art show. The bit about Paris may
well be true, but from what I know of
that lovely city the reason the shopmen
draw the curtains is to spare the passer-
by the spectacle of the unaesthetic horrors.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Tompion”: Turkish Navy yarns (B.
3/12/ ’52)? My favorite tells of the war-
ship that left Constantinople for England
at the time of Queen Victoria’s jubilee.
It duly reached Portsmouth, but when
the pilot put the ship into her allotted
berth and gave the order to let go the
anchor, nothing happened. He repeated
the order in a more urgent tone; still
nothing was done. Then the commander,
with an apologetic air, explained that he
had neither anchors nor cables. He had
put into Gibraltar for bunkers and,
having no money, had left his anchors
and cables as security. The Admiralty
saved the day by lending him ground
tackle.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Slim”: On Hamburg main-station
the local travel-expert mass-processed an
inward freight of tourists consigned from
his Sydney office. He assembled them,
collected passports, gave out passports,
counted them, humored knov*alls, col-
lected train-tickets, interpreted for plat-
form vendors. Near by swart shinycap
added instructions in th-e glossily chummy
voice favored by travel-agencies. Shiny-
cap told the tourists that heavy luggage
was waiting in their Reichshof rooms.
He said that hand-luggage would be
handled by porters. He advised them to
leave valuables with him. After being
shunted cosily through Italy, France and
Belgium by travel-agencies, some tourists
had lost touch with hardheaded realism,
They handed over personal treasures for
safekeeping, accepted receipts and ex-
pressed opinions in frantic shouts as the
Hamburg gonif bounded upstairs to street-
level and elsewhere. “He’s got all my
traveller’s cheques,” complained one
tourist. “I gave him my diary for the
whole trip,” admitted another. I bet the
thief was delighted to harvest this last
literary turnip.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Aestur”; That bloke who siphoned
the hot soup (B. 12/11 /’52) would have
my father-in-law’s sympathy. My wife
was dishing out the “puddin’ ” —milky
“ Naughty! You haven't washed behind your ears!"
tapioca. As she passed over her dad’s
she yelled—he’s a bit deaf —“It’s hot.”
Dad dredged a spoonful, opened his
mouth wide —we waited for him to grin
and put it back in the bowl —and
shovelled it in. His eyes popped, he
swallowed and gasped, beat his chest,
wiped his eyes. “I told you it was hot.
Dad.” He groaned, “I thought you said
it was cold.”
♦♦♦ *** +>
“Craiser”: So C, J. Dennis’s home-
town, Auburn (S.A.), is planning a
singularly inappropriate memorial to the
poet opposite the hotel which heard his
first yell. It is to be a drinking-fountain.
I can imagine the devotees of his Muse,
thrown out of the pub at six o’clock,
gathering in a melancholy group around
the monument while the ghost of the
genial Den, grinning from ear to ear,
invites them to bloomin’ well have an-
other.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mullum”: He walked into the bank
carrying a gladstone-bag, placed it on
the counter and said: “There are five
pounds of ha’pennies in there. Will you
count it?” The teller’s face fell, but he
counted them. “Four pounds nineteen
and tenpence,” he announced. “Would
you like to make it up to five pounds?”
“Yes,” said the customer. “Just a
moment.” He stepped along to the next
teller and asked: “Could you give me
six ha’pennies for threepence?” Then he
walked back and passed over four of the
coins to make up the fiver,
*> ❖ ❖
“Spokeshave”: The leading emporium
in Melbourne introduced a Christmas
innovation to facilitate male shopping—
g secret boudoir removed from the vicinity
of the public counter where men can go
and buy underclothing for their wives
or girl-friends without blushing. If they
fet>l any hesitancy in naming the kind of
article they are wanting they are rescued
from their embarrassment by a suave,
sensitive, tactful, understanding gent of
the masculine gender. The firm’s deep
psychological insight has been more than
justified; in Christmas-week the place
was packed to overflowing.
♦♦♦ ♦+♦ +>
“Uramao”: Just sent to the bottom of
Lake Wakatipu, New Zealand, the oldest
steamer on Lloyd’s Register. Built in
Dunedin 80 years ago, the Ben Lomond
was in constant service during that
lengthy period. Many a goldminer, with
his pack and tools of trade, was con-
veyed to the diggings by the Ben Lomond
in the roaring days. When the old vessel
took her final plunge it was in 600 ft. of
water. She will be replaced by a modern
twin-engined motor-ship. Three years
ago, when W. A. Boxford, formerly secre-
tary of the committee of Lloyds of Lon-
don, visited Queenstown he was greatly
interested in Ben Lomond, and made a
note of the fact of her being the oldest
steamer in the Register.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Vingter”: In a crowded Melbourne
bar the flash young fellow hugging the
counter became loudly resentful of a
quietly-dressed bloke’s mild attempt to
get near enough to catch the eye of the
duchess dispensing the drinks. The mild
bloke’s disregard of his abuse aroused
the belligerent one to a higher pitch of
frenzy, culminating in the declaration
“I’ll knock your block off if y’ think y’
can treat me like dirt.” The object of
the threat smartly moved back a pace
and quickly removed his spectacles, a
move which the crowd saw as a prelude
to action. They were disappointed when
he then drew from his pocket another
pair of specs. The crowd resumed their
quest of beer. A split-second later they
were bemoaning their loss of interest
which had caused them to miss the
business-like right hook which spread-
eagled the troublemaker, after which the
mild bloke again switched his spectacles
with the remark “I’ll have to get bi-focals
if this sort of thing’s going to happen
often.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Taswegian”: We’ve just moved to a
small outer suburb, near the railway. The
station is not manned; a notice tells us
in bold letters that to stop trains we must
display the yellow flag by day, the light
at night. The flag-box is easy to find,
but where’s the light-switch? It cer-
tainly isn’t near the notice, and there’s
no arrow to show which way to look. It
is dark, and the train is coming; a hasty
groping and a dozen matches —ah, here
it is, tucked away in a corner inside the
shed, camouflaged by a strip of
galvanised-iron designed to prevent it
from being pinched. It takes me back to
my boyhood days and the shop where we
bought our pies ; the owner, who wasn’t
averse to extra trade on Sundays, had a
notice printed; If the front-door is not
open, please come round the back.
Yes, he nailed it on the back-door.
+j+
“Sebak”: For at least the third time
a Sydney newspaper has described the
implement used in a smash-and-grab
robbery as a “house-brick.” To me the
attributive noun is both redundant and
inaccurate. The former because, with
the possible exception of the gold or ice-
cream varieties, a brick is a brick; the
latter for the good reason that the humble
“common” is no more a house-brick than
it is a shop-, factory-, garage- or office-
brick, Obviously the need for qualifica-
tion is a hangover from our childhood
days, when a brick was something we
chucked at a cat or fired from a shanghai.
And that reminds me of the time the
bright boy of our class was requested to
read his composition aloud. It reached:
“There was a pretty little bird sitting on
a twig over the rippling stream, I tossed a
small pebble in its direction and it flew
away.” At that point the teacher chal-
lenged an apparently inattentive pupil:
“Bickle, what did Baines say?” Bickle’s
brain clanked as it churned backwards,
but it delivered the substance: “He said
he seen a bird near a waterhole and he
shot a brick at it.”
WHO OWNS THE PARK?
Who owns the park ?
Who owns the park ?
Firstly the sparrows,
the sunlight; the doubling ducks
that break the mirror ;
and the solemn black swans
that accept our crusts
without hurry or remark,
beyond their being—
which is not bread alone,
and is perhaps for us
as is for them :
they own the park.
But in the night
in the long night,
why surely the park
belongs to the lovers —
who are discovering,
have discovered, new
worlds f worlds
without light,
where the hand can see,
the lips be flame
lighting the mind
with matchstick flares
that burn and go,
are bright and dark,
till the self is flame
and somehow, mysteriously,
there is no dark,
no dark at all
and yet is good dark,
kind dark, dark night
everywhere.
N.S.W,
RAY MATHEW.


When it's an
Exlde—you start!
Oixibt
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX 2.26
PERSONAL ITEMS
Admiralty communique to the Rec
Fleet —for Musso’s War II Mare Nostrun
now read Mare Mountbatten.
Notched their quarter-centuries as
judges, Kenneth Whistler Street and
Maurice Emanuel Cantor, both appointed
to the N.S.W. Industrial Commission on
the same day in 1927, Cantor, born in
Melbourne and schooled in Perth and
Sydney, barristered for eight years before
attaining the Bench, on which he has sat
continuously since. Street, an Old Digger
with a string of law prizes, left the Com-
mission for the Supreme Court Bench
in 1931, to make legal history as the first
instance in the British Empire when
father and son sat as members of
the same Bench at the same time, Street
senior then being Chief Justice, To
further the parallel, K.W., in 1950,
became Chief Justice himself.
The physiognomy of Frank R. Wood
is a blend of pugnacity with geniality,
with the latter characteristic coming to
the top more readily, as may be gauged
from this sketch by Prior. Born in New-
castle (N.S.W.), Wood got his toe-grip on
the bottom rung of the Commonwealth
Bank ladder 33 years ago and his climb
EXCHANGE CONTROLLER
has been steady and persistent. He has
just been brought back from London,
where he was assistant-manager for two
years, to take over the important helm
of Exchange Control. On his way back
he called in at. Boston, the hub of
America’s wool trade, where he gleaned
the considered opinion that synthetics
in no way constitute a serious
threat to our fine wools. In 1947 he
visited seven Asian countries, including
China,, where he had talks with the then
Nationalist regime’s financial tycoon Dr.
T. V. Soong and managed to keep a
few jumps ahead of the advancing Reds.
Professor R. J. Last, late of Glenelg,
Adelaide, now of the Royal College of
Surgeons, London, must be looking with
satisfaction at his footsteps. Following
them, one son, J. M. Last, is preparing
in Edinburgh for an examination for
membership of the Royal College of
Physicians early next year ; another, 23-
year-old P. M. Last, has just been
described by Adelaide University’s Pro-
fessor of Pathology as the outstanding
medical student of the year. The prof,
has some grounds for his rating—young
P.M. having just topped the final-year
exams, for the Bachelorship of Medicine
and Surgery, and collared the Everard
Scholarship and the Frank S. Hone
Memorial Prize, the latter awarded for
J| rst time. Last year he vvon all four
or his faculty s prizes. He’s headed for
a medical appointment in the Speck.
1 A Flying Dutchman was among those
i on whose breast Sir Dallas Brooks pinned
a decoration at a recent investiture in
Melbourne —Cornelius van Leent, a
house-painter who was commended by
George VI for having helped 85 Allied
airmen to escape from German imprison-
ment in Holland. For this the Dutchman
was arrested by the Nazis and sentenced
to be shot. He took off, was re-
captured, passed through seven prison
camps (where he received special correc-
tive treatment) and was finally released
in 1945 from a camp near Bremen. He
sailed for Australia in 1950, settled at
Wynyard (Tasmania), married and
moved over to Victoria. The other day
he was located at Malvern, and led
off to Government House to receive the
King’s—now the Queen’s —commendation
for Brave Conduct.
Denis Pritchard, who received his
C.B.E. at Government House at
the same investiture, is the first, and
only, surgeon rear-admiral in the Royal
Australian Navy. A Sydney University
man, foundation Fellow of the Royal
Australasian College of Physicians and
member of the Royal College of
Physicians, London, he put up his two
rings, with the surgeon’s scarlet braid be-
tween ’em, in 1923. For almost the
whole of War II Pritchard was at sea,
in cruiser Perth before she got hers in
the Java Sea battle, and later in cruiser
Australia when she was delivering her
armor-piercing messengers in the Pacific
fighting—squadron M.O. in both ships.
After the war he was appointed Director
of Naval Medical Services in Melbourne,
where he operates still.
Giving himself a Christmas present of
retirement long-leave, after 47 years with
the ’Wales, R. M. Wolfe has taken in
and handed out in every State
bar Queensland, in branches as
far removed as Geraldton (W.A.) and
Christchurch (N.Z.). Old Digger in
France, particularly well-known in Perth
and Victoria (founder and
coach of the Mildura Rowing Club), R.M.
is at present tidying-up behind a door
marked Central Inspector in Sydney head-
office.
Passed on in London, Dr. Charles
Halliley Kellaway, a generous, self-
effacing scientist of unusual breadth of
culture whose work was as well-known in
England, Europe and the U.S. as in his
birthplace, Melbourne, Son of a parson,
he studied at the Lister Institute, London,
and, as a major with the A.A.M.C., won
M.C. for his work under terrific fire in the
Ypres sector. Already a researcher of
note when he took on the directorship
of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute
in 1923, his findings on snake-venom have
since become familiar to physiologists
the world over. He was engaged on re-
search into a universal snakebite serum
when, with his assistants, he was co-opted
for the biggest blood-transfusion organi-
sation in Australian history. Medieoes
of the 2nd A.I.F. took blood-tests of
every Australian serviceman, and dis-
patched them to Kellaway’s laboratories.
As a result. Diggers got their “A2’s,”
“04’s,” and so on on the back of their
identification tags; and were at once,
when wounded, supplied with the correct
blood-group transfusions. Kellaway’s
eminence was further recognised in 1943,
when he was appointed director-in-chief
of the vast Wellcome Laboratories in
England and the U.S. He left the Hall
Institute to Frank Macfarlane Burnet,
with its reputation solidly established in
world research circles. He died at 63,
after a long illness.
Internationally known doggy man M. K.
McDermott, of Christchurch (N.Z.), has
been appointed senior judge in the dog
section at the next Sydney Royal.
President of the Canterbury Kennel Club i
for five years, a member of the manage-
ment committee for 20, recently elected
president of the New Zealand Kennel
Club, he has been a judge in New Zea-
land for 20 years. Although he has
judged all breeds at every principal show
in New Zealand, his dog interests in
Ireland and his own Fernland have been
in setters, cocker spaniels, dachshunds,
English springers, Sealyhams and wire
fox-terriers. Other dog-judges for the
Royal are H. West, W. Bruce, J. J. K.
Dwyer and G. W. Ross, all of Sydney,
Old Digger and hardworking Wes-
tralian public servant, Russell John
Dumas, recently awarded the medal of the
Institution of Engineers, is the first
member of the Westralian branch of the
institution to win this distinction. Born
at Mt, Barker in 1887, he graduated in
engineering at Adelaide University before
going westward to top-off an outstanding
career by becoming Director of Public
Works and head of the more recently-
formed State Electricity Commission.
Among other qualifications he picked
up on the way was membership of the
London Institute of Civil Engineers.
“X.S.”: The new Penguin translation
of Homer’s Odyssey by Dr. Emile Victor
Rieu has become a best-seller to the tune
of half a million copies. Thus a poem
written by a bloke who lived some time
between 1500 and 850 b.c. can still
interest people. Although the same isn’t
likely to be said of Reflections of an A us-
tralian Liberal by Sir Frederic Eggleston,
just published by Cheshire’s, Melbourne,
at least it is probably unique in being a
political book and at the same time a
momentary best-seller. People queued
on publication morning, and there were
so many overseas demands that they
couldn’t be met from the first edition.
The former Australian Minister to the
U.S. and Paris peace-delegate (1919)
makes his odyssey through the intricate
reefs, rocks and channels of Australian
party-politics and economics, and paints
pen-pictures of the heroes and villains of
the political melodrama —all of whom
will be forgotten long before Polyphemus,
Circe, the sirens and the lotus-eaters.
Thirty-three-year-old G. E. Pryke, the
genial gentleman here Coventrated, has
just been appointed secretary of the
S. Australian Employers’ Federation,
Son of a Royal Navy man, the new sec.
takes with him nine years’ experience
EMPLOYERS’ SEC.
of bosses’ problems, garnered while an
industrial officer for the State committee
of overseas and inter-State shipping com-
panies in Port Adelaide. When he was
appointed a J.P., at 26, Pryke was the
youngest in the State ; he has since sat
on the Bench of the Port police court.
Pryke inherited a family talent for music,
and raises his tenor at the slightest nod—
mainly with the choir of his Semaphore
church and at his Rotary meetings.
Cecil Bray (inevitably “Donkey”), sole pro-
the cheerfu - 1 phiz a^end^ n odfe\HE
now pushes a pen in an office opposite ihe
Bulletin building. Bray has done some pushing
of a somewhat more exciting character — when,
as one of her two torpedo experts, he was m
nels%kea
bridges, minefields, searchlights, batteries and
patrol-craft guarding the throat of the Dar-
danelles. With close on 30 years’ salt-watering,
mcludin g both world wars, Bray hails from
Bourke, and cleared from home to join the
Navy at 16J. He stood-by the building of
AEI and AE2, our first submarines, and sailed
in AE2 as the only escort (towed part of the
SUBMARINER
way) of the second convoy to leave King
George’s Sound on December 31, 1914. She
slipped in to Lemnos, among the concourse
waiting for the Landing. For some time
Bray’s skipper had been at the Admiral with a
plan for breaching the Straits; before dawn on
April 25, AE2 slipped out and headed for the
searchlights of the Dardanelles. What Bray
remembers, and always will, of those following
days was the waiting-inside while mine-mooring
wires scraped along outside. Tenuous steel
coils, roots of a floating garden of death, with
explosive bulbs. AE2 got through, to be con-
tinually hounded; and to just miss a Turkish
cruiser with torpedoes, to find another cruiser
with one of Bray’s charges, and to have a third
tin-fish, aimed at 200yds. range at a crowded
transport, have its engine fail and break surface
ahead. Then, heading for Constantinople, with
a torpedo-boat approaching, AE2 went berserk.
She finally broke surface under the enemy’s
waiting guns. For Bray there followed four
years’ p,-0.-w. time, with, in Belemedik, a
meeting with Tommy White. Bray took his
discharge in 1939 —a few weeks before he
signed on again for Hitler’s show. He was
sighted the other night, signing-on as a member
of the N.S.W. Shiplovers’ Society.
Having been archdeacon in the north-
west, south-west, and capital of Westralia,
Evelyn Herbert Strugnell, Anglican Arch-
deacon of Perth, is shedding the surplice
to start the New Year in retirement.
Ordained at Chatham (U.K.) in 1914, he
spent 15 years in the eastern States before
he was appointed teacher and chaplain
at Guildford (W.A.) Grammar School, in
1929.
Into the Silence:
In London, where he had been Westralian
Agent-General for the past five years, William
Henry Kftson, at 66. Twenty-two years in the
State Legislative Council took in a variety of
important posts, among them Chief Secretary,
Minister for Education and Minister of Police.
At 52, in Canberra, John Andrew Tonkin,
one of the country’s outstanding marketing
experts. Starting in the Commonwealth Audit
Office in 1916, he crossed to the Commerce
Department 14 years later, to become, in 1950,
its director of marketing. Other big jobs
included the chairmanship of the Tobacco Board
and of the Export Advisory Committee.
At Maryborough (Q.), Ernest Lionel Kings-
bury, for over 50 years a schoolie in Queensland,
in which time (some of it in horse-and-buggy
as itinerant teacher) he ranged from Roma in
the south-west to Cooktown off the Reef,
ending as a headmaster in Maryborough. He
was at the Landing, with the Light Horse in
Palestine and won his commission and M.C.
with a field-battery in France.
At Ashburton (N.Z.), at 79, Robert C. Tod-
hunter, a widely-known breeder of Merinos,
consignments of which he exported to S. Africa,
America and the Falklands. He built up, as
well, a stud of Shorthorns, helped by importa-
tions of the best of the breed from S. Australia.
A brother, Benjamin, was foundation director
of Imperial Chemical Industries in Ehgland, a
sister married Sir James Thomson, head or
Madras Legislative Council, and a second
brother. Sir Charles Todhunter, also became
head of the same body.


HAPPY CHRISTMAS!


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blanc”; The carload of volunteers
had striven desperately all day to help
the farmer and his sons save their home,
but a strong wind rendered their efforts
futile ; the homestead and contents went
in the furnace, and all concentrated on
saving the shed and machinery. Towards
evening, as the flames swept through the
small orchard, the cocky was heard to
say despairingly; “It’s got Mum’s
pumpkin, and she wanted it for the
Wagga Show.” “Mum’s pumpkin!
Mum’s pumpkin!” the two sons called to
each other, as they grabbed wet bags and
fought their way through the blazing
grass. The visitors heard Bill call: “Give
us your bag, Harry, and I’ll beat it
back while you get it! ” It was an iron-
bark, weighing about 30 pounds. As
Harry panted
back with it
Bill ran ahead,
beating down
the' flames.
They covered
it with a wet
bag under the
hot tank. At
the Show a
few months later the outsize vegetable
collected first-prize.
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Bullen owned a dairy-
farm, which he had run with the aid of
two daughters. When they married he
had to employ labor, and he was soon
full of complaints about their unreli-
ability. After neighbors advised him to
employ a share-worker Bullen advertised
for one. From the applicants he selected
George, who had a Roseworthy diploma
plus three years of practical work. George
insisted on two things being included in
the agreement; there must be a new
bull, of a proved butter-fat strain, and he
must be allowed to cull the cows accord-
ing to modern herd-testing. It wasn’t
long before there were rows ; Bullen went
around complaining that the new man
was getting rid of “all the best cows.”
George said he was disposing of the ones
that weren’t worth their keep. In the
centre of the lucerne paddocks was a
10-acre oval patch which grew little save
barley-grass, George wanted to cut a
drain from it to the creek, to take off
the water which collected there. Bullen
said it would be useless because the creek
was higher than the hollow. The shire-
council overseer, called in, set up his
dumpy-level and found the creek was
19in. lower than the bottom of the
hollow, so Bullen allowed the drain to
be made. George then put the hollow
under lucerne. Within another two years
me cream-cheques were more
than doubled. But Bullen still
whinged that the other bloke
was “getting ten quid a week out
of me!” George! settled the
argument by giving 24 hours’
notice and going off to work on
shares for a man who could add
tv/o and two accurately. Bullen
went back to paying wages;
there was a week of steady rain
while he was in the city getting
medical treatment, the man
whom he employed let the drain
choke up and 10 acres of lucerne were
drowned out. The cream-cheques shrank
till they were back where they were before
George’s day. f Bullen was quite happy,
though—nobody was getting £lO a week
out of him now.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: After seeing falls of two
to three inches an hour in Queensland I
thought I knew what heavy rain was,
but it was nothing to a cloudburst I
saw in the eastern suburbs of Adelaide
in February, 1926, when the St. Peter’s
post-office recorded sin, in a little over
half an hour. This, in turn, was trifling
when compared with what we had at
Jacquinot Bay, New Britain, in 1945. It
rained heavily for a few days, then it
set in properly, with 48in. recorded in
28 hours. The Meteorological Officer of
the R.N.Z.A.F. said that a place in Assam
and another in Hawaii shared the official
distinction of being the wettest places on
earth, but he thought that a rain-gauge
in the mountains above Jacquinot Bay
would probably register a few feet more
rain per year than either of them. As I
watched that torrent drop from the sky, I
was struck by the inadequacy of most
descriptions of a tropical deluge. It does
not fall in sheets, as some writers claim.
Far better was a remark in a book about
India, whose author described it as “rain-
ing ramrods.” That is exactly what it
does look like ; pencil-sized rods of water
coming down so heavily that a coconut-
palm 20yds. away is but a blurred out-
line. After a few hours of it we started
to curse the weather, but an old sergeant
broke us up by saying: “Aw, shut up!
Think of all the good it’s doing for those
poor blanky cocky farmers down in the
Mallee! ”
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”: I hasten to shed a little
extra light upon the mystery of the
identity of the “jinker” (B. 17/12/’52).
It is a lightly-built, easily-sprung, two-
wheeled vehicle, fitted with “sharves”
and capable of carrying three adults,, a
couple of dogs, camping-gear, and a
billy, camp-oven and hurricane-lamp
swung from the axle. The same contri-
vance is also a sulky. It is also a gig—
or a trap—or, for some mysterious reason,
a “turn-out.” Just to make things a
little clearer, there is a large, massively-
constructed vehicle with four wheels, each
about 4ft, in diameter and lOin. wide,
weighing several tons; the last I saw was
drawn by a steam traction-engine and
was used for moving weatherboard houses
a n u„ r L fr P aCe *° P . a^ 'w l S °
a jmker. So you see, N. West s jmker
wasn’t a linker. It was a gig, or a trap,
or a sulky-in other words, a linker.
’ J
* * * *
Squib : Thomas Gray’s cat (B.
26/11/’52) may have had as expressive a
tail as the various furries to whom I
“You know you mustn’t park here—can't you read?”
have belonged. Doesn’t the Greek word
for cat mean “tail-waver” or something
like it? Pussums can wave as elegant a
fan as any Court beauty, or mince up
and down swirling her tail like a lady’s
train, purring expectantly the while. And
nothing could be brighter than the erect
and twitching appendage with which she
enters a room to say hello. But the
cats in Lewis Carroll’s day must have
been different from the present breed.
Remember the one Alice conversed with
before going through the looking-glass,
and which licked her paw and then used
it to scrub her offspring’s face? wSuch
behavior would be condemned in any
modern cat clinic. Every cat knows that
her tongue is an ideal washer and
massager, and every kitten knows the
feel of it, too. The learned doctor was
evidently better at inventing animals than
observing them. ~
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were doing a bit
of trellising on a block out on
Fourteenth-street, Mildura,' and camped
on the job. One Sunday I stayed in
camp, washing, cooking next week’s meat
and so forth, and Mat took himself into
town. He walked home about nine
o’clock that night and was crossing the
road bridge over the 70ft. channel when
there was a quick swirl in the water.
“Cripes,” he thought, “a whackin’ big
cod would go all right,” so he went
down the channel to locate the nearest
water-gate that side, and up-channel to
locate the nearest up there. His idea was
that he and I would get in that ditch
with a hessian net and get that big fish.
Back at the bridge he heard sounds in
the water below and got down off the
bridge and peered into the darkness.
Whereupon an uncodlike voice said,
“Why don’t you go away and let a girl
have a dip!” Mat broke evens out of
there. “Cripes,” he said, telling me about
it, “we’d ha’ looked a coupler dopes
draggin’ a bloomin’ mermaid out o’ the
channel. It’s just as well she spoke
English, wasn’t it?”
* * * *
“Kros”: How does the electric-ray
generate its electricity (B. 10/12/’52)?
Well, all muscle-movements are accom-
panied by slight, incidental electric
changes (due to friction). In the evolu-
tionary development of “electric” fish
Nature has seized on this fact and modi-
fied some muscle-cells until their power
of shortening has gone and the currents
they produce are intensified. (Similarly
she has given the chameleon the power
of complete color-change, which is also
due to muscular movement and is an
elaboration of a process possessed by
most creatures.) In the case of the
electric-ray (known also as the numb-fish
or the “torpedo”), the electric organ con-
sists of a great number of thin plates
of muscular tissue, with their separate
electrical effects summing-up, like dry-
cells in series. The electric-ray, which is
fairly common on the N.S.W. coast
around Newcastle and Port Stephens, is
nnf n f Pollrc _ « u X. *•
’r fa e as the stmg-
SLlv W aha a™? f I'- , e
stingray has a barbed spine on his tail,
which can give quite a “kick,” but it is
not an electric fish. As for “C. Towers’s”
other query, if the electric organ of the
fish caught in the net were not in any
way damaged, the squashing-up would
not prevent its being able to deal out a
decent kick on its release.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ll grant that
camels and donkeys usually kick more
viciously than a cow or a horse (B.
19/11/*52), but it doesn’t follow that the
two more domesticated beasts are any
less accomplished than the others; it’s
just that they’re less vicious. But occa-
sionally you’ll strike a really vicious
horse, and, rather more rarely, a vicious
cow, and when you do you won’t have
any legitimate complaints about either
the speed or accuracy of their kicks. A
cow can’t kick backwards —it’s a physical
impossibility —but it has all the rest of
the circle to choose from, and can make
full use of it. And there’s no pause when
a bad cow decides to kick. The hoof
comes out sideways, upwards, and down
in the one sweep. True, a cow doesn’t
usually kick twice in quick succession,
but then she doesn’t usually have to.
“Oont’s” horses, now, kicked in four or
five actions —“all separate and distinct.”
Well, they weren’t vicious horses. A nag
with a grudge and a determination to
work it out doesn’t employ the well-
known double-plaster with his hind-legs.
He strikes with one leg, and all the
actions “O.” noticed merge into one. But
more often he’ll strike with a forefoot
—and then he’s really fast. And don’t
ever underestimate the power in a
stallion’s foreleg. He can cut an
adversary to pieces with it.
* * * *
“Wavy N.”: I can endorse what “Lae-
titia” (B. 19/11/’52) says about the
shrewdness of goats. During 1940 a
naval cook stationed on Wednesday Island
was given a kid by a Thursday Island
goatowner. The kid was taken to W.I.
and raised on powdered-milk. When the
cook was transferred later to T.I. the kid
Bluey, then a year old, came back
with him. He would bleat back an
answer to anyone who called his name,
and, if the caller was his owner, he
would make full-speed to the galley.
When the air-raid warning sounded Bluey
would bolt to the galley where his tin-
hat was kept—it was specially cut to
accommodate his horns —and as soon as
it was on he’d make his own way to
the slit-trenches. He loved tobacco and,
as I was a non-smoker, I generally had
a few cigarettes to give away. If I walked
past Bluey without taking any notice of
him he’d ignore me, but if I said “Want
a cigarette?” he’d promptly follow me
to the hut and stand on his hind-legs and
gather in a cigarette held sft. high. There
was a certain tree in the grounds, and
Bluey would stand on his hind-legs for
minutes at a time eating the leaves if
someone would hold the branches down
to the sft.-level. If one of the men gave
him a smack on the stern and then ran,
Bluey would chase him and return the
compliment with a butt just the one
butt; after which he would turn and run
and expect to be chased till again “tigged.
LATE SUMMER.
When the last flower is blown and early dusk
Sdws with bright seed the heavenly fields of
night,
When the young moon lies golden in the husk
And luminous ranges gather up the light,
Then twilight takes her chalice up and spills,
Down in the shadowy slopes where speargrass
lies,
Cream in this dark-blue basin of the hills.
You the moon-crier, the discontent, come out,
The flittermaus is on his secret flight,
The black cicada’s rich, triumphant shout
Fills the whole valley with an old delight;
Come out, come out and break your earthly
bars,
Knowing it is this day alone that dies,
And swim in an eternity of stars.
s.a.
IRENE GOUGH.


“Howie Wing”: Mick stayed outside
in the truck while we went into the
poultryfarm to buy some pullets. We
thought it would take only a couple of
minutes, but the pullets were hard to
catch, the crate had to have a nail in it,
and then the poultryfarmer held forth for
a while on the rearing of fowls, their
habits, food requirements, diseases and
so on. When we got back to the truck
Mick didn’t say anything, but as we
drove off he kept sneezing and coughing
and clearing his throat. We asked him if
he was getting the ’flu. “’Flu be
blowed!” he burst out. “It was just
being left sitting in this truck for so long
with nothing to do. Nobody passing, not
a cow or a horse in any of the paddocks
to look at; couldn’t even see the chooks
for that big shed. Looked around for
something to read, but there wasn’t a
paper or an instruction-book or a map
in the confounded truck. Searched my
pockets, but there was only an old bill,
a couple of walnuts and a patent nose-
inhaler that I’d had for a cold a couple
of years ago. After I’d read the bill and
eaten the nuts there was nothing to do
but keep sniffing the inhaler, and now the
back of my nose is just about on fire.
Just the kind of mess you would get a
man into.”
* * * *
“Sackfair”: The reptile wriggled out
of a shovelful of earth and was gingerly
lifted up on a long-handled shovel by a
very cautious laborer. “A young snake! ”
he hollered. “Snake, me eye!” scoffed
the chippy. “It’s only a glowworm.”
I’ve heard slowworms wrongly called
glowworms, but this little wriggler was
entirely different from the brown, black-
speckled type of legless lizard I’d known.
Still, Chips remained adamant. “It’s not
a baby snake,” he insisted. “Look at
its bluntish tail. It’s a glowworm —I’ve
seen hundreds of ’em.” Taking his word
for it, I grabbed the reptile and looked
for the two minute fins a few inches back
from the head. There was none. I
began to wonder ; the thing was about
9in. long, almost black on top, and be-
tween a white and pinkish coloring under-
neath ; it had scales, moved with the
same action as a snake, and, when I
caught the squirming body as it slipped
off my hand, the tiniest of forked tongues
darted out and back. That tongue settled
the matter —and the reptile. A trowel
did the decapitating, and rich, red blood
oozed out! Slowworms, I’ve always
found, will brearfc when struck with a
stick, but no blood comes. If it came to
a show of hands on the job I think the
majority would carry the opinion that
the reptile was a young black-snake.
And that makes me a snake-charmer. I
shudder at the thought.
* * * *
“V.”; Though most animals find they
can swim when forced into water, every
so often comes one that can’t manage it.
Have even struck a Too that jumped into
a hole and then drowned because he
couldn’t keep his head above the water-
line. With sheep, the weakness is
common. At dipping-time maybe several
hundred will follow through their deep
bath easily enough ; then the trap lands
one that is quite helpless. Down it goes
to the bottom, and stops there until hauled
out on the grass to recover. Some of
these non-swimmers don’t try, others
struggle madly in the water as they sink.
The same trouble evidently extends to
odd humans. I know one cove who,
despite eagerness to learn, and lessons by
an expert, could never manage anything
more than a short distance under water;
he just couldn’t stop on the top.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Big Fleming’s periodic
stomach-aches —he always bolted his food
—wouldn’t have worried us if Little Curl
hadn’t read one of those magazine articles
on cancer. By the time Curl was done
with us we were all pretty well convinced
that Fleming wouldn’t last more than a
month and the rest of us were likely to
be eaten away within a year. Only
Fleming derided the oracle. He poked
borak at Little Curl’s theories and argu-
ments, sneered at those of us who urged
him to see a doctor. Thus, for five or
six weeks, we talked about little else,
with Curl holding the floor, he having
dug up more articles and studied up the
cancer articles in the boss’s encyclopedia.
Then came the afternoon when a white-
faced Curl galloped to the homestead
from the Minduk paddock. “It’s Flem.,”
he gasped. “It’s got him at last. He’s
all doubled up with pain. I told him it
would ; I told him it would!” We heaved
a mattress into the utility and raced out
the 10 miles. Fleming was in a cold
sweat and barely conscious. The 60-odd
miles to Balranald was done in better than
evens. We handed him oyer, they X-rayed
him, operated, and withdrew from his
gizzard a large plum-stone. “Anyway,”
the pale patient said, as he prepared to go
back to work, “that ought t’ keep Curl
quiet for a bit.”
* * * *
“Brick E.”: When you blokes have
finally decided whether a cocky can truth-
fully claim that he runs his farm all on
his Pat Malone, you can have a go at
telling me who really builds a house.
The owner, of course, claims “I built my
place in” —whatever the year was; but he
didn’t build it; he only paid for it. “I
built that home,” the architect says with
pride. He didn’t build it either; he
merely designed it. “I built that job,” the
builder contends; but often he didn’t
drive one nail or lay a brick in it. “I did
So-and-so’s job,” declares the foreman-
carpenter—and is promptly pulled up by
the brickie, who wants to adjectively
know who built the blue-pencilled walls.
Perhaps Lanky, our hoddy, got closer
to the solution than anybody has. Reply-
ing to a mate in the local, he said: “Yair,
I know the place y’ mean —we built it.”
“We?” chipped in Charlie, the boss
brickie. “Where d’you get the ‘we’ busi-
ness?” Lanky merely grinned, but at
work next morning Charlie might have
been in Siberia for all the attention he
got. After 10 minutes of impatient wait-
ing the Forgotten Man’s voice roared
out: “Hey, you great long slab, I work
here, y’know! ” Lank grinned and played
his ace: “Say we work here and I’ll give
you a hod or two.”
* * * *
“E:”; Pete collected the old broken-
down nag from “Jobber” Charlie, and
promised the £8 as soon as he’d saved it
from his pension. It took several months,
but eventually Pete was able to count up
the agreed price, and proudly he set off
to the pub, where he could rely on finding
Jobber on Saturdays. “I got it,” he
nodded to his crony. “Come’n ’ave a
drink, an’ we’ll settle up.” “Ain’t every
day y’ save up eight-quid, eh, Pete? Have
another.” A couple more rounds, and
again it was Jobber’s turn. “Sorry, ol’
man, but I’m flat busted,” he apologised.
“Thash awri’. I got plenty,” breathed
Pete expansively. Late the following
afternoon, under the willow across the
road, Pete lifted his head, and gazed at
the pub. He thought for some time, then
a groan of despair broke forth. He’d
have to start saving again. Four months
passed, and again he rode pubward. “I got
it,” he told Jobber. “Come ’n’ ’ave a drink,
an’ we’ll settle up.” Once more the setting
sun of another day shone on two figures
struggling to consciousness under the
willow. The first dragged himself to a
sitting position, stared around, felt in his
pockets and moaned. The second head
came up, gazed at the tree, at the pub and
turned to take in his companion. Fol-
lowed a deep grunt of satisfaction and a
heavenly smile broke over his face. This
time Pete had paid Jobber before the
celebration started.
* * * *
“Millicent”; The queerest part of that
accident to the lass at the dam (B.
19/11/’52) was how she
managed to get an 80ft.-
head of water pressing
her hand against the
mouth of the intake-
pipe. To do that she’d
have to be 80ft. below
the surface, and 13
fathoms is considered
excellent at Torres Strait.
Groping for the strainer,
the deepest she could
have got her hand is
about 2ft. without get-
ting her chin wet, and
what actually held her
hand there'was the 2ft-
head of water plus a
partial vacuum in the
pipe on the other side,
caused by the water con-
tinuing to run down to
the Pelton wheel. It
wouldn’t have mattered
if the Pelton wheel had
been 800 ft. or 8000 ft.
below the dam, instead
of 80; the theoretical
worst that could have
occurred would have
been the creation of a
perfect vacuum in the
downhill pipe. Then her
hand would have been pressed against the
intake by the 2ft.-head of water above
it, and by the whole weight of the
atmosphere above that again. The weight
of the atmosphere is 14.71 b. per sq. in.;
equivalent to a 34ft.-head of water. I
don’t know the size of the intake-pipe,
and it would be indelicate as well as idle
to speculate on the size of the young
lady’s hand, but the total pressure couldn’t
have been more than about 1001 b. I
think the bloke whose strength was taxed
to the limit to slide her hand off the pipe-
mouth must have been almost helpless —
with laughter.
* * * *
“Jehu”: A peregrinating photographer
recently bewailed in Melbourne “Argus”
his discovery that N.T. Binghis, having
lost the art of construction of their dugout
canoes, ..now buy the craft at the mission
centres, where are congregated the only
surviving natives capable of turning out
the craft. Though true enough, it isn’t
an indication of the death of native
craftsmanship. The art of constructing
the canoe never was possessed by every
adult member of the tribes, but was a
hereditary legacy of a few families. With
the thinning of Binghi’s ranks there are
correspondingly fewer shipbuilding’
families, but among the survivors the per-
centage of craftsmen is as high as ever.
Native trade secrets are guarded with
zeal; in the Western Islands of Torres
Straits the natives have never known
how to build the catamarans which they
handle with superb seamanship. The
“Matter of fact, I've never actually had to blow it yet."
Me nerves are crook, Paddy. Every time I go t '
sleep I dream I'm fallin'.”
long outriggers are always acquired by
purchase from their builders in the Fly
River country. Even in the days of
cannibalistic wars between the T.S. men
and the mainlanders, trade was completely
unrestricted. Often with the next pre-
vailing wind, ships of war would sail
against their vendors.
♦ * * *
“C. Towers”: What must surely be the
heaviest four ever boated —70 stone of
bouncing womanhood —was the star entry
in a rowing race for . women which
formed part of the programme of a
recent gala day on Lake Macquarie
(N.S.W.). Cox went about 7st. Stroke
was 225 t., Two being 15st., Three 16st.,
and Bow, a slip of a girl, lOst. The
race got away to a fine start, with the
heavyweights hitting a high rate right
from the gun, giving it all they had —
and boy, did they have something to
give! The sylph-like Stroke, however,
put too much of her back —and the rest
—into the job, with the result that she
snapped an oar and fell off her thwart
on to Two, setting up a kind of chain-
reaction along the entire boat which
utterly destroyed all hopes of victory.
“Harbel”: Recently struck a chap who
told me, with the diffidence of a man
who fears he is going to be labelled a
liar, that when renovating a pub in
Mudgee (N.S.W.) he found written in
pencil on the plaster behind the stripped-
off wallpaper a signature and the date
1859. Neither the alkali in the plaster
nor the alum in the paste had, with
nearly 100 years to take effect, dimmed
the pencil’s clarity. Perhaps I would
have been doubtful if I hadn’t seen simi-
lar evidence of an ordinary pencil-mark’s
durability. In the basement of the Girls’
Industrial School, Parramatta (N.S.W.),
there used to be a built-in bath, con-
structed of brick, rendered over with
cement. The basement of the fine old
three-storied home is said to have been
the sleeping-quarters for female prisoners
from the near-by “women’s factory,” so
there was a strong possibility that the
bath had seen its century. My job was
to pull the old thing out and make room
for alterations. I did; and there on the
stone wall, as black and distinct as if 1
had drawn it myself, was the plumb line
made by the brickie’s pencil when he set
the job out. And yet notes 1 made in my
pocketbook 12 months ago are scarcely
readable now. Why? Is there some
obliterating agent in paper? Can friction
of the pages be to blame? Or were the
pencils of yesteryear a better job than the
modern article?
THE FALLEN VALLEY
Severed from cliffs by Nature’s vivid knife
it lives, another world, a hidden life,
the valley fallen in the jungle growth.
Huddled in leaves and stillness, it is loath
to leave the stifling shelter, and to fight
the baffling way through boulders to the height,
lonely to the battering fire and wind.
Poised at the edge of cliffs intrudes the mind,
imagining the wild impulsive leap
to the narcotic darkness, the long sleep,
for one brief moment knowing the delight
and terror of the swooping falcon’s flight.
n.s.w.
E. NORMAN.


Professor plans Plying Palace'
VIENNA 1804
ROFESSOR ROBERT-
SON has designed a
stupendous aircraft
to carry sixty passengers
on a six-months non-stop
flight of scientific observation.
dola containing kitchen, store,
laboratories, music room,
cabins and ladies’ withdraw-
ing room. Surmounting the
machine, symbolising vigil-
The giant has a 3-decker gon-
a nee, will be an effigy of a
rooster, so enormous as to con-
tain an observatory in its eye.
“Aircraft design should be
bolder,” said the Professor.
“If you think that six months
is overdoing it, remember that
there is no ground service yet.
It will, for example, be many
years before somebody invents
the BP Aviation Service for
quick, efficient refuelling.”
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
An Associate of Anglo<lranian Oil Company, Limited, London.
Business.Rollery.Etc.
The Poor Capitalist
Some eminent economists,
including the late Lord Keynes,
did much to damage the stand-
ing of those who advocated
thrift as a national virtue. But
the time has obviously come to
take stock of the results of eco-
nomic planning over the past 20
years. Certainly the cost of a
colossal war and the subsequent
cold war of the Communist
party on the Western world were
not factors taken into account
by Keynes and his followers.
But, even without the vast eco-
nomic waste caused by war and
Communist industrial sabotage,
it is clear that our present way
of working and living must
have eventually become open to
question.
Australia, in particular, is an
expanding country, and is in
need of much capital for de-
velopment. Capital is almost
always the result of hard work,
shrewd trading and thrift. To
produce capital a country must
produce more than it consumes,
or sell more than it buys.
This country is not producing
enough and not saving enough.
And there is not enough incen-
tive to save. All types of in-
vestors have become poorer over
the past. 15 years. Landlords
have been “fair-rented” into
sullen helplessness. Price-con-
trol and taxation have prevented
industry from keeping pace with
the effects of inflation on their
reserves for asset-maintenance
and -replacement. Shareholders
in industry, almost without
exception, have been cruelly
robbed by inflation, even though
superficially their dividends may
have been maintained or in-
creased.
Because of the discourage-
ment of thrift, because of under-
production and overconsump-
tion, Australia is suffering
acutely from a shortage of capi-
tal. If we are not to become
completely socialised, then we
must recognise that we are still
fundamentally a Capitalist
economy, and regard Capitalism
in its proper light. It is no use
being mealy-mouthed or apolo-
getic about Capitalism: if we
regard private enterprise as our
ideal, then Capitalism must also
be similarly regarded.
The Federal Government, if
it is to carry its present eco-
nomic policy to its logical con-
clusion, will have to allow addi-
tional tax-free depreciation
deductions on plant bought
before war-time and post-war
inflation ran riot. In order to
meet the demands which are
being made on it now, and will
be made at an increasing rate
in the near future, industry will
have to be encouraged to earn
more profit than is the general
thing at present, and to plough-
back much of that profit. In
fact, it should be made a con-
dition of the taxation concession
that the amount of it must be
put back into the business.
We cannot go on consuming
the results of past saving and
construction, at the same time
leaving too little over out of
current production to restore
and extend manufacturing plant
and transport facilities, and
denying the rural industries many
essentials to their expansion. We
must produce more. We must
get costs down. We must save
more. And private enterprise
must be allowed to retain more
of the savings. Private enter-
prise, or Capitalism—call it what
you will—is only a form of pri-
vate trusteeship of industrial
property held for the benefit of
the community. But it is a
much more effective system than
straightout State-ownership.
Woolcott Forbes
In the Bankruptcy Court in
Sydney Mr. Manning (for the
Official Receiver) claimed thai
John Woolcott Forbes, bankrupt
financier, had given evidence
completely inconsistent with his
earlier evidence.
(Mr. Webb, Q.C., challenging
the court’s jurisdiction later on,
submitted that Forbes had a
lawful and reasonable excuse for
not being able to answer
questions.)
Mr, Mitchell, for Forbes, said
that the allegation that Forbes
had extracted money from the
shareholders in the- group of
companies mentioned did not
make the money or assets the
property of the bankrupt. It
had not been proved conclusively
that the money had become
Forbes’s property. Forbes only
became the trustee of the money
or assets.
Mr. Manning said the Official
Receiver did not abandon his
" Then suddenly I remembered what my mother
said about telling lies.”
allegation that Forbes had put
money into the companies, add-
“lt is perfectly clear that
the bankrupt has withdrawn
huge sums of money, and is not
willing to give any explanation
about his dealing with a sub-
stantial part of this money.” Mr.
Bohringer, the Registrar, com-
mented : “In my opinion, Forbes
has been able to answer the
questions, but has refused to do
so. I propose to report his
default to Mr. Justice dyne.”
(Judge dyne later said he
would consider the matter.)
Eric McConnell, former
private secretary to Forbes, who
had previously refused to answer
questions, told Judge dyne on
Dec. 16 that cheques made out
to “Contra” represented pay-
ment of commission on shares
sold. “Quite a lot” of money was
drawn out in this way. About
£12,000 was paid to a 23-year-old
clerk named Hansen, employed
by G. D. Wharton, a share-
broker, McConnell claimed. The
transaction was arranged by
Forbes, he said.
McConnell admitted that he
knew Forbes was accustomed to
travel by car, plane or ship, and
that in the city he was driven
by a chauffeur.
The questioning of McConnell
will be continued at a date to be
fixed by the Registrar.
Rye Park Gallium
Sydney Stock Exchange
circles were intrigued last week
by an announcement coming
from the directors of Rye Park
Scheelite, N.L., which said that
samples of the tungsten ore sent
from the Rye Park mine (near
Boorowa, N.S.W.) to the Denver
Equipment Co., U.S.A., had
revealed the presence of gallium,
and that later tests of the ore
assayed 0.14 p.c. gallium. The
metal, it was stated, was a rare
one, used in scientific processes,
and was quoted at £7O an ounce.
The-report went on to say that
additional test-work was re-
quired to establish the manner in
which the gallium occurs, the
method of recovering it from
the ore and whether' it was pre-
sent in economic percentages
throughout the whole deposit.
The intriguing aspect is this.
Rye Park claims to have 82,500
tons of scheelite ore “proved
and blocked out.” At 0.14 p.c.
(50oz, to the ton) there would
be—-assuming that the values
persisted throughout the ore-
body something like
4,000,0000 z. of gallium, worth,
at £7O an ounce, upwards of
£2BO million. A very fascinat-
ing thought. But, of course, as
the board itself has pointed out,
the actual extent of the gallium
occurrence has yet to be proved.
Gallium is a metal that has
so far proved very' difficult to
extract, even in the laboratory.
Its known commercial uses are
limited, and the possibilities of
selling it on the open market
need investigation. Also, apart
from the as-yet-unsolved prob-
lem (in the Rye Park case) of
quantities, values, recoveries and
costs, there is one other very
important question, namely: If
the gallium is present through-
out the ore-body at 50oz. to the
ton, would gallium remain a
rare metal for very long?
Following the board’s an-
nouncement, Rye Park Is.-paids
jumped to 2s. They later sub-
sided to Is. Bd,
A Weak Sharemarket
After Maoriland’s worst in-
vestment year for more than a
decade, there weren’t many
shaky sellers around when the
market was on the point of
close-down, in a rather delicate
state of health, and probably it
was just as well. Any signs of
weakness would have been mag-
nified, to the disadvantage of
everyone, strong or weak. The
pulse was even, though not
vigorous, and genuine investors
were taking things calmly and
quietly, as they usually do in
Maoriland when they’re un-
certain about the future.
Anyone with funds had plenty
of bargains to pick from in a
market so short of capital, and
it needs only a moderate pick-
up in demand to tip the scales
in the right direction.
In the money-squeeze, yields
on front-rank shares have been
lifted to 20-25 p.c. above levels
a year ago, and second-rankers
are returning up to 50 p.c, better
than then, with shares going
begging on these terms. Inves-
tors would be rushing in if they
weren’t so hard up. As it is, the
few who can scratch a bit of
cash together have a wonderful
opportunity. The second-
rankers are the best catch, be-
cause these days few investors
are prepared to venture far.
Small and medium-sized cos.
which are still doing well, and
are likely to continue paying
steady divs., should be in a posi-
tion to show good capita]
appreciation when the days of
austerity are past.
While officialdom still re-
fuses to admit that cheap money
is on the way out and that
higher yields, from gilts down-
wards, are here to say, more and
more Maorilanders can see the
writing on the wall. All-round
adjustments in interest-rates can
be looked for in 1953, and side-
by-side with this a frontal assault
will have to be made on inflated
costs, which are the greatest
threat today.
At last it is beginning to
dawn on many that pegged
interest-rates and low costs
don’t go together. It has taken
a long while to learn this lesson
—and the Socialists still refuse
to believe it —but at last com-
monsense and reason are making
headway. Once interest-rates
find their proper level it
shouldn’t be long before the
sharemarket begins to brighten
up, although N.Z. won’t be by
any means free from all its
problems —low hourly output in
some industries, the 40-hour
week and the costly “Welfare
State” to boot.


FRENCH
ICorn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
.Avaihhle at
[Anthony Horderns’ j
kuv m
SANDERS#i
d^FILE|
Correspondence, invoice*,
statements. etc.. Hied In the
S
"Sander*” can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month or-
Price* and far-
ther information
upon application
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. . • Docket Book Go. (Aust.)
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
M. C. ALDEE, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
Now available on
heavy, white,
super-calendered
paper —-
"BILLY—
Cartoon
History
by
LOW"
Price, Is. 6d., post-free,
from
The Bulletin,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
Missing Friend
WILL MR. GERALD LYNCH, formerly of
68 Judge Lane, East Sydney, Musician,
and latterly of War Veterans’ Homes,
kindly communicate with MARK
MITCHELL & NELSON, Solicitors, 14
Spring Street, Sydney, when he will hear
something to hia advantage?
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LABAN DAVID CROSS formerly of
Merriwa.—T AKE NOTICE that
FLORENCE MURIEL CROSS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 8500 of 1952 on
the ground of your desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 25th day of Febru-
ary 1953 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from JOHN WARREN
BINNEY, Solicitor, of V 9 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS LYNE late of 13 Waratah
Street Rushcutters Bay New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that VICTOR CHARLES
LYNE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1561 of 1950 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 25th February
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from BAYNE GBIKIE,
Solicitor, of 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD.
7
Bank, through its
branches in Australia, its
London Offices and its Agents
and Correspondents abroad,
offers you wide banking
facilities and a comprehensive
service. The manager of any
branch of the Bank will gladly
explain them to you.
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
THE
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
a
4
“Thank you for
your praise . .
“On behalf of my fellow producers,
Lawrence H. Cecil and Myles Wright, and
myself, please accept our warmest thanks
for your appreciation of our Caltex plays,”
says E. Mason Wood, senior producer of the
Macquarie Broadcasting Service. Listening
to “the play” on Sunday nights at eight has
become a “must” with more than a million
Australians who regularly enjoy the world’s
outstanding plays presented by the country’s
foremost dramatic artists in
THE
CALTEX
THEATRE
Produced by
THE MACQUARIE
BROADCASTING SERVICE
2GB 3AW 4BH SDN 61X 7HO 7LA
!HR 2CA 2MW 2PK 2MG 2LF 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD
The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” A Review of Markets, Financial
Conditions, Company Accounts, Mining Activities. Published by
“The Bulletin.” Price 2/-.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Food-rationing was essentially
a war-time expedient to ensure
“fair shares” and, more
important still, to save shipping.
It is with us yet, although in a
modified form, seven years after
the end of the war.
The Ministry of Food recently
freed tea from control and the
transition caused no incon-
venience to the housewife: there
was no run on the shops, no
rocketing of price and no
shortage. Hard upon this de-
cision, the Government acknow-
ledged the breakdown long
experienced by those who live in
large towns —of the supposed
“fair shares” in the distribution
of eggs.
Despite an annual subsidy of
£2O million, a year and a further
£1,226,000 for administration of
the control, at least one-third of
the eggs produced never reached
the open market. Since there is
no evidence of a sinister and
centrally-organised blackmarket,
it is probable that poultry-
farmers disposed of their product
to friends and nodding acquaint-
ances, including weekend
motorists from the towns.
An effective scheme to tighten
up these irregularities, except
that of recruiting a vast pere-
grination of snoopers, seems to
have been beyond even the fertile
resources of the bureaucrat. So,
next spring, housewives will be
able to walk into a shop and buy
eggs at the real price (i.e., uncon-
cealed by subsidy).
The Minister of Food’s action
is generally approved, although
not without sorrowful side-
glances at those who have suf-
fered most from the uneven
ramifications of the Welfare
State —the wife whose motherly
duties prevent her from earning
money, the retired couple with a
hard-won “nest-egg,” and the
pensioners.
But, on balance, the action is
welcomed. * It is not forgotten
how the prices of clothing and
furniture found their level after
controls were released and “con-
sumer-resistance” forced them
down.
The main foods still rationed
are meat, sugar and fats (of.
which butter only is scarce).
Very briefly, the governing
factors are: Meat—high cost
and trading relations with
Argentina never easy ; sugar —
dollars ; fats—political (i.e.,
whether to admit that butter is a
luxury, and, by freeing it, to risk
a steep rise in price).
The Lower House
It is often said of certain
gatherings, particularly when
they are all-male, that sooner
or later they too will find their
level, hpwever well-intentioned
they may start off. Our vener-
able Mother of Parliaments, once
so mindful of its dignity and
responsibility, unfortunately
projects to the outside wojrld
something of this naughty-
schoolboy - letting - himself - go
atmosphere.
M.P.s are very jealous of their
privileged status, but they seem
to be a good deal less conscious
of the childish attitudes they
often strike. The ordinary
citizen manages to conduct his
domestic- and business-life with-
out brawling with his neighbors
or heaving bricks at his com-
petitors. It is not surprising that
he is amazed and disgusted at
the behavior of his legislators.
True, the unruly elements are
few in number and far to the
Left. But, once inflamed, they
have little difficulty in extending
the contagion to both sides of the
House, with a profusion of
abuse, mainly un-Parliamentary.
One can, for example, think of
better acknowledgments of Mr.
Churchill’s 78 years than raucous
boos, even though he may have
been unduly provocative.
This free-for-all has its origins
in two main causes: the contro-
versial nature of the denation-
alisation bills and the unifying
effect upon the Opposition of an
opportunity to steal a march on
the Tories. The imposition of
that governmental evil of neces-
sity, the guillotine, acted as a
challenge to the opportunism of
the Labor back-benches. Col.
Wigg (whose name quite falsely
suggests a squire in a Restoration
comedy) was once a Regular
N.C.O. and, politically, is an
indefatigable class-warrior. One
evening he noticed that the Gov-
ernment benches were empty and
sensed that the Tories, tired after
late-night sittings, had gone
home. As a result of his
intuition, the House was counted-
out and the Government was
made to look silly,
A stupid vote of censure fol-
lowed and brought the row to
its climax. Even so, Mr.
Churchill has emerged the victor.
His relish of a tussle is un-
diminished by his age, and he
was also able to establish that
he confidently intends his party
to stay in office.
It is expected that the brawl
will go on, intermittently, for
the Opposition can find no better
filibustering tactics. Meantime,
Parliamentary democracy bears
its knocks with increasing pain.
And in no way does the com-
munity benefit.
Les Folies De L’Old Vic.
From the sublime to the
ridiculous is a fair summing-up
of the latest stage in the Old
Vic.’s struggle to regain its high
level in the theatre world.
“Romeo and Juliet’’ both
pleased the critics and closed the
doors. “Excellent,” we thought;
“the Vic. has made a comeback.
Gone are the days of insuf-
ficiency or inadequacy, barely
concealed by polite acknowledge-
ments to ‘culture.’ We're in for
a tremendous season.” Instead,
Labiche’s classic romp of Gay
Paree, “The Italian Straw Hat,”
has angered the critics, con-
founded the well-wishers and
only half-amused the public.
The cold hostility of much of
the comment has without ques-
tion caused distress to the com-
pany and its administrators, who
stint themselves nothing to give
of their best. This play is a
100-year-old frolic about a
worried bridegroom whose
wedding-day is wrecked because
his horse has guzzled a lady's
straw hat while she, in turn, is
philandering with a soldier. It
is in the repertory of the
Comedie Fransaise, was success-
fully filmed by Rene Clair and
has delighted Bristol. But
London has received it coldly.
A pity, because the actors
really do work hard. Their
versatility seems limitless. Be-
sides pace, vitality, polish, style,
light-comedy and broad farce,
they are called upon to sing
ballads, mutter asides, take part
in ballets and even to dance a
frilly can-can. The farce is so
stamped with supposed-to-be-
funny dialogue, Spoonerisms
(“the thick plottens”), corny
catch-phrases and pantomimicry
that they are virtually double-
crossed by their own material.
It is poor stuff and tediously
drawn out, although Mark Lub-
bock’s witty music and Roger
Furze’s expressive costumes and
sets ease the pain and lighten the
boredom.
Granted that the choice of
play is unfortunate, nothing can
detract from the excellence of
the company. Laurence Payne s
juvenile lead is far removed from
the scowling Tybalt; his
debonair fooling has the whimsy
of Chaplin and the grace of
Eugene "Stratton. And the three
old men, respectively beatific,
maudlin and peppery, of William
Squire, Paul Rogers and Peter
Finch, are gems of fruity
characterisation.


3 W |DgO H -If
1 IBt* d ??5
HiiiH
s
E-SU
33-39 HUNTER ST-
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA.
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Have you looked over your will lately?
If you have not revised your Will to meet to-day’s
conditions, the consequences may be serious for someone
who depends on you. Your responsibility to that some-
one is too important to justify delaying until some tomorrow
that may never come.
Why not have a confidential talk with one of our
Senior Officers on the subject of the appointment of the
Company as your Executor and Trustee—alone or jointly
with a relative or friend?
He will help you provide for the efficient and
economical settlement of your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step of instructing your
Solicitor to redraw your Will should then be a simple
matter.
If you would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company write (or ring 80377) and make an
appointment.
. DIRECTORS:-
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director,
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Clyde Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.f
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1947 .. 39,121 5 6 25,038 123,028
Premiums, new issues, £8033 .. 1
Reserves of new subsids., £13,513 I 132,457
Added to intangibles, £10,119 .. f
Unexplained net reduet’s, £1998 J
1948 .. 58,453 5 6 34,500 156,410
Share premiums, £10,606 .. ~ 167,016
Net addition reserves, £18,091 .. 185,107
’Net addition intangibles, £6731 .. 178,376
Clyde Industries.
1949 . . 38,693 5 6 54,158 162,911
Added intangibles, £1975 .. .. 160,936
Net reduction reserves, £492 .. 160,444
1950 .. 103,650 5 7 68,036 196,058
Surplus sale assets, £58,72(1 .. 254,778
Revaluation assets, etc., £486,681 .. 741,459
Net unexplained reduction, £8282 .. 783,177
1951 .. 188,114 5 10 114,853 806,438
Added intangibles, £7275 .. .. 799,163
Unexplained reduction, £lBB6 .. 797,277
1952 164,870 5 10 123,747 838,400
t After deducting intangibles, now £20,061.
This group of heavy-engineering and
ancillary undertakings—parent holding
co. and eight subsidiaries —has been less
affected by recent changes in the
economic climate than many other
traders, and, on the demand side, the
outlook is as encouraging as anything of
the kind can be under existing conditions.
Originally it was the Clyde Engineering
Co., which ran into a patch of bad
weather in the 1930’5. The whole picture
brightened after the war, when the co.
acquired a number of subsidiary interests.
And, on the heavy-engineering side, earn-
ings got a nice lift with the advent of
the diesel-electric loco., turned out under
arrangement with General Motors (U.S.).
Because of savings in running-costs, these
locos have largely superseded the old
steam type in U.S., and look like doing
so in Australia, too, when enough money
becomes available for Governments to
finance the change. The first one con-
structed by the co. has just completed
200,000 miles trouble-free on the Trans-
continental line. And there are enough
orders on hand, together with other work,
to keep the Clyde plant busy for the next
three years. The other work includes
large contracts with the N. S. Wales
Government railway- and transport-
departments.
The parent got rid of its textile and
aviation-supply interests a couple of years
ago. The operating subsidiaries are now:
Clyde Engineering Co. Pty., which took
over the heavy-engineering works at Gran-
ville (N.S/W.). Paul and Gray Pty.
(N.S.W.), ship’s chandlers, etc., which also
has subsidiaries of its own in Queensland
and New Zealand. Clyde Batteries Pty.
(N.S.W.), all types acid batteries. John
Carruthers and Co. Pty. (N.S.W.),
mechanical, electrical and earth-moving
equipment. Green Point Shipbuilding and
Engineering Co, (N.S.W.), ship-repairers,
engineers, etc. A. C. Willard and Co.
(N.S.W.), stainless-steel, chemical and food-
processing plants. Material Handling Pty.,
Ltd. (N.S.W.), distributes products made
under licence from Automotive Transporta-
tion Co. (U.S.), and handles Italian-made
tractors and prefabricated dwellings, etc.
Clyde Sales Pty., Ltd. (N.S.W.), has
branches in the principal capital cities, and
is the merchandising outlet for some of the
subsidiaries.
Exactly what each contributes to the pool
isn’t disclosed in the published accounts,
but the two best earners appear to be
Clyde Engineering and Paul and Gray.
The group has not been greatly affected
by cancellation of orders, the chairman
says.
Aggregate turnover last term reached
a record £B£ million, an increase of over
54 p.c,, as against a growth of 27 p.c.
for the previous year. The bigger trading
more than took care of the advance in
wages and other operating-costs, the gain
in profit before providing for deprecia-
tion and taxation being £32,458:
Consolidated Figures,
1950. 1951. 1952.
Trading profit .. .. £200,990 £362,028 £894,486
Less Depreciation .. 55,190 70,214 75,116
Tax .. .. 42,150 103,700 154,500
Net profit . . . . 103,650 188,114 164,870
The slip of £23,244 in the net figure was
due mainly to provision of an extra
£50,800 for the taxgatherer. The £164,870
of profit was enough to pay the pref.
divs, (£30,000) and show 14.3 p.c. on
average ord. capital, compared with 18.6,
12.6, 3.4, 11.3 and 10.7 p.c, back to 1947.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., making the
average 6.6 p.c. over the last nine years—
before that the ords, had experienced a
long drought. \
To help ease the pressure of the debt
and provide for continued expansion,
451,475 new; £1 ords. were issued at par
about three months before the close of
accounts. Paid capital (£300,000 in 1946)
was thus lifted to £1,900,000 in 300,000
first and a like number of second prefs.,
both 5 p.c. cumulative, and 1,300,000
ords. The pref. divs. and 10 p.c. to the
ords. will now call for £160,000, which is
only £4870 less than last term’s net profit.
The next table shows how the new
share-capital, and more besides, was
employed;
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref. £449,800 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Ordinary ~ 636,894 636,394 848,5251,300,000
Outside interests 18,223 13,933
Overdraft ~ 756,447 689,392 743,985 1,469,001
Creditors ~ 371,817 561,672 827,1481,174,887
Final div. .. 36,370 25,456 42,427 50,571
Freeholds, etc. 811,857 323,917 860,447 938,409
Plant .. 646,868 709,488 828,446 947,833
Stocks .. 1,002,297 1,084,1891,429,533 2,177,786
Debtors .. 389,078 537,962 704,8091,341,424
Investments .. 50,000 50,000 11,000 5,975
Cash, etc. .. 27,362 21,599 34,288 21,882
Intangibles .. 35,154 37,307 12,786 20,061
To add £196,849 net to the book-value
of fixed assets, carry an extra £748,253
of stocks and £636,615 more book-debts,
the co. went outside for a further
£1,072,705. The improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£852,658) was
£286,588. Stocks appear at the lower of
cost or market-value, and book-debts less
an unspecified provision for bad debts,
etc.
It is unlikely that shareholders will be
asked for more ; stocks and the overdraft
have both been worked down since the
close of accounts, and the process is to
continue. However, the 10 p.c. div.
cannot be regarded as secure despite
the favorable demand outlook on the
engineering side.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the ords. at 245. 3d. to return
8.2 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c. distribution
continues, or 6.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The first and second prefs., at
16s. 4d. and 165., yield 6.1 p.c. and 6.2
p.c., respectively. Net tangible cover is
£9 2s. 7d, firsts, £8 2s. 7d. seconds and
325. lOd. ords.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)
, Di vi dends *
r* —Pref. N Ord. To Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves, serves.
£> & £, £, £,
1947.. 110,054 5984 3012 19,500 81,558 287,391
To staff fund, £15.000 .. .. 272,391'
Assets revaluation res., £70,034 .. 342,425
Unexplained addition res., £14,828.. 357,253
13J p.c.
1948.. 121,439 5984 3012 26,000 86,443 443,696
To staff fund, £14,161 .. .. 429,535
Share premiums, £96,176 .. ~ 525,711
Unexplained addition res., £14,775.. 540,486
1949. . 124,367 5984 3012 34,999 80,372 620,858
To staff fund, £11,161 . . .. 609,697
Unexplained addition res., £4159 .. 623,856
15 p.c..
1950.. 185,876 5984 3012 56,185120,695 744,551
To staff fund, £14,161 .. .. 730,390
Unexplained additions, £24,526 .. 754,916
1951.. 273,968 5984 3012 58,125 206,847 961,763
To staff fund, £15,411 .. .. 946,352
Proceeds sale assets, £12,946 .. 959,298
Ufiexplained reductions, £5946 .. 953,352
1952.. 208,758 5984 3012 58,125 141,637 1,094,989
To staff fund, £12,501 .. ..1,082,488
The rapid and very profitable growth of
this energetic manufacturing, importing
and merchandising organisation, whose
activities spread throughout the Com-
monwealth, has been financed largely by
additions to the floating debt and from
surplus earnings. Over the half-dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1951,
£1,315,194 was added to the outside debt.
£797,140 to reserves and £192,500 to
share capital. During the same period
profits increased over 3} times, and the
div. climbed from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c., the
average being 12.7 p.c.
Manufacture, centred chiefly in Mel-
bourne, includes bicycles (the line on
which the business grew up), radios, re-
frigerators, vacuum-cleaners, batteries,
machine tools, etc. On the distributing
side the co. also handles a wide range of
components in the motor, refrigeration
and wireless trades, as well as garage
equipment, washing-machines and other
household electrical goods. A year ago
the co.’s own manufactures accounted
for about one-fifth of turnover, and
mntnr snares G M-IT nartS Were te-
motor spares ur.m. xi. paiu> wuc
cently added to the list—and washing-
machines and other agency lines, together
with services, etc., for the balance.
Last term opened with the public
spending freely and business brisker than
ever. But during the second half trade
became increasingly sticky, and toward
the close of accounts stocks accumulated
and margins narrowed, due mainly to
the spate of imports, credit restrictions.
more cautious attitude of consumers, and
continued growth of operating and all
other costs. Still, turnover for the full
term increased by 15.5 p.c. (28.5 p.c, in
the previous year), reaching a record
£6,066,000. After taking stocks into
account at cost or under, allowing £43,608
(down £43,463) for depreciation and
£182,300 (down £78,700) for taxation,
there was a slip of £43,463 in the net
result. The £208,758 of profit claimed,
however, was enough to pay the pref,
divs. (together £8996) and show a juicy
51.5 p.c. on ord. and employee capital
combined, compared with 68.3, 47.2,
43.7, 57.6 and 50.1 p.c. back to 1947.
That leaves out of the reckoning an un-
explained reduction of £5946 in reserves
and a capital profit of £12,946 on sale
of assets. So nothing had to be strained
to repeat the 15 p.c. div. After sending
(59 )"of t fiie vear’smet
remained fitted reserves to £1,082488
The years net growth in stocks was
£973,502 and in flAd assets £181,582:-
paid capital..
overdraft .. 231,588 370,713 713,261 1,234,221
Su°ndfy ge3 ’ ’ 181,170 187,270 186,370 5i0.470
creditors.. 436,802 446,520 666,549 777,986
Tax provision 131,857 194,792 321,929 494,108
Provident fund 6,661 11,161 5,411 18,936
Final divs. .. 39,497 60,683 62,623 62,623
Freehold and
leasehold .. 327,784 841,784 449,800 575)269
Plant, etc. .. 147,710 167,597 189,350 245,463
Stocks ..1,089,661 1,239,9501,613,767 2,587,269
Book debts .. 549,718 754,9261,152,9111,075,566
Investments
and cash .. 10,487 8,772 9,167 9,766
„ , ~ , , r .
The co. went to its bankers for an extra
£520,960 and added £124,100 to the
amount coming to mortgages and £111,437
to sundry creditors. When the books
closed there . was 295. Id. of outside
money in the business for every £ of
shareholders’ funds ; obviously much
depends upon the soundness of stocks
and book-debts,
lo relieve the pressure of the outside
debt, those on the ord register at Aug. 12
last were offered 1,300,000 new ss, shares,
one for one, ut par T lus P a ’ C o ap ‘ a
and 250,000 em P ploy« and 2%0,000 ords.;
all of ss. each. On that lot the. pref.
divs, and 15 p.c. on the employee and
ord. capital will call for £115,871, or
£92,887 less profit than was claimed last
term. The employee shares rank after
the prefs. for capital and divs., carry a
guaranteed 3 p.c., and advance with the
ords. beyond that point.
Though trade is now beginning to im-
prove, further contraction in the current
year’s turnover seems certain, and over-
head will press heavily upon margins.
Still, with sales as they are, “a satis-
factory dividend rate will be maintained,”
the chairman says.
At 11s, the ords. return 6.8 p.c. so
long as the 15 p.c. distribution continues.
The 8 per cents, at 295. 3d. yield 5.4 p.c.
There has been no business in the 6 per
cents, for some time. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover is £l5 7s. 2d.
prefs. (both lots rank equally for capital)
and 13s. 4d. ords.
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1945.. 67,397 10 p.c. = 45,000 1
To staff fund, £5OOO .. f 7,397 677.143
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..1
1946.. 70,232 10 p.c. = 45,000 1
To staff fund, £5OOO .. [ 10,232 587.375
W/o premises, £lO,OOO .. I
1947.. 75,159 10 p.c. = 45,000 1
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 1 15,159 602.534
W/o premises, £lo,ooo' ..I
1948.. 92,505 12i p.c. = 56,250 ) ococc «os vao
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. \ 20,255 628,789
Add reserve adjustments, £192,251.. 821,040
1949. . 114,046 ,12§ p.c. ~ 56,250 ) a 7 7on 836
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. f 47,706 868,836
1950.. 203,324 p.c, 56,250 (,197 074 1005 910
To staff fund. £lO,OOO ~ i 137,074 1.095,910
1951.. 194,873 121 p.c. = 62,500 \, 99 0 7 0 n -i o 8 983
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. f 122,373 1,128,285
1952. .285,629 12| p.c, = 62,500 ) Ifi o 1 9 0 1991412
To stafl fund, £lO,OOO f 163,129 1,291,412
With the exception of marine business,
this 90-year-old Sydney-controlled fire,
marine and accident office confines its
underwriting activities mainly to Australia
and New Zealand; and the management
put a lot of vigor into the hunt for busi-
ness after the war. Helped by the infla-
tionary boom, net premium income ex-
panded by 377 p.c. over the last eight
years, the overall loss experience was
favorable, a tight hold was kept upon
controllable outgoings, and surplus earn-
ings showed marked improvement. Also
the div. was lifted from 10 p.c. in 1947
to 12£ p.c. in 1948 and has remained
steady since, and shareholders welcomed
a call for £50,000 of fresh capital at par
early in 1951, raising paid capital to
£500,000 in £lO shares paid to £5 each
—it was the first time those on the
register were asked to assist for over 30
years.
Last term the expansion in net premium
income was £354,606, and the overall
underwriting experience was satisfactory,
despite the unprofitable nature of third-
party risks and unsatisfactory experience
in connection with motor-vehicle con-
tracts, following the mounting tide of
road accidents, heavy damages awarded
by juries for personal injury, and rising
cost of repairs:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1946.. 404,324 141,557 228,629$ 35.0 p.e. 56.6 p.c.
1948.. 618,284 247,832 313,564 40.0 „ 50.7 „
1949.. 903,160 329,749 496,990 36.5 „ 55.0 „
1950. 1,090,677 420,570 515,850 88.2 „ 46.9 „
1951. 1,333,003 532,209 650,910 39.9 „ 48.8 „
1952. 1,687,609 716,716 778,876 42.4 „ 46.1 „
I After deducting investment income taxation.
The year’s claims ran away with an extra
£2 10s. p.c,, for reasons already stated.
The most profitable sections are fire,
marine and workers’ compensation in that
order. The most pleasing feature is that
the bigger business was written at £2 14s,
p.c., less cost, notwithstanding the steep
rise in wage-rates.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£192,017 (up £42,133), and interest and
rents turned in £43,612 (down £1377),
making total surplus from all sources
£235,629 (up £40,756). That was before
transferring £141,840 to the reserve for
unexpired risks, raising it to £724,528,
or approximately 43 p.c, of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 40 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. The net amount
available for distribution was thus £93,789
(down £6757), or 18.7 p.c. on capital,
of which 10 p.c. was from underwriting
and 8.7 p.c. from interest, rents, etc. So
the I2j p.c. div. remained a comfortable
matter, and there is nothing in sight at


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys. 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
This child is suffering with yaws—a dread
disease which cripples, disfigures and kills
millions of children in tropical countries.
This is the same child, after one injection
of penicillin administered by a U.N.I.C.E.F.
doctor. This photograph was taken one
month after the first injection. The child is
completely cured of yaws.
WILL YOU HELPI
Your Donation to the United Nations Appeal
for Children can save Lives !
There are millions of children —yes millions of kiddies who have
never known what it means to have a satisfied stomach, a warm
bed or the feel of loving arms about them.
You are not asked to see these children or prepare their gruel,
inject their penicillin, remove their rotting rags or bathe their
emaciated bodies . . . The United Nations (u.n.i.c.e.f.) sees to all
that, and sees to it efficiently. But what you are asked is to give
some money so that this work of mercy can continue.
The money you give will be spent in Australia on food, life-
saving drugs and clothing. These children need more than your
pity—they need your donations —money with which U.N.A.C. may
help some child to health and life.
Send your donations through any bank or to:
UNITED NATIONS
APPEAL FOR CHILDREN
Savoy House, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney
Take up your pen . . .
To The United Nations Appeal for Children
SAVOY HOUSE. 29 BL/GH ST. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Please find attached my gift of £ 1 :
Mr. Mrs. Miss
All donations of £1 or over are allowable deductions from
Income Tax. Official Receipt will be posted to you.
the moment to suggest that it is
teWto be disturbed.
“b m „r. holders and share-
Both P 0
o ers are P
19 | ‘ £ ' £
Paid capital .. 450,000 500.000 500,000
Creditors* .. 412,592 510,391 643,162
Final div. .. 28.125 31,-50 Bi. jO
589,915 489,915 489,915
Cash, book debts, ' . 84 690
Debentures '‘ lo.’ooo Tofol "So
Mortgages .. 352,143 496,034 511,012
Premises * Inc i ude 2 s 3 taxation etc '
n „ or IQQt fivp vears t he
fo’s investment
t Gov
policy has swiped tromi
demises
which are rent-producing, uver
S e G?vemmL 9 secSitie*o total
assets irSZed tom « 2 pc to
assets dropped irom . p. •
from P 4°4 n Tc and
nr' tols’l DC
premises from 6.8 p. . . p. .
The market prices the scrip to
• ,1 u ! i Ucc then ic tn
r ha b d° Ut from
securities, and has done so for
per share.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’45 . .45,805 5 p.o. = 37,500 2,959 282,311
’46..45,780 5 ~ ~37,500 8,280 290,591
From inner reserves, £37,970.. 328,561
Reserves capitalised, £75,000. . 263,561
’47,. 46,158 6 p.c. = 45,000 1,158 254,719
’4B . . 46,361 6 ~ ~45,000 1,361 256.080
’49..54,886 7 ~ ~52,500 2,386 258,466
From inner reserves £25,000. . 283,466
’50.. 62,589 7 p.c. =54,427 8,162 291,628
’51..69,571 7 „ ~ 67,360 2,211 292,839
’52..57,770 6 „ ~60,000 290,609
Shareholders have never
skimmed much cream from the
business and dividends have been
mostly moderate, though regular
—the co. has not failed to make
an annual distribution for the
last 46 years. The rate averaged
10 p.c. for the seven years to
1930, 4.9 pc, for the next five
difficult slump years, then a
steady 5 p.c. till 1946 (when
75,000 £1 shares in City Invest-
ments, Ltd., were handed out as
a special bonus), followed by
two lots of 6 p.c., three of 7 p.c.
and then 6 p.c. last term.
It is a unit bank, and for the
most part its deposits and
advances are not directly subject
to the same wide range of influ-
ences as those of the big private
trading banks. The bulk of the
business consists, as the name
implies, of advances secured by
mortgage in connection with
home and other building activity,
with a dash of general banking
for flavor.
The rapid post-war expansion
of the business mainly reflects
the influences of inflationary
pressures and growth of popula-
tion upon building activity in
and around Brisbane, During
the latter half of last term the
labor and materials problems
eased, and so did building costs
and prices, some of the hot-air
within the trade itself being let
out. But there has been no drop
in award wage-rates, though the
pace at which they were advanc-
ing has slackened considerably.
It is doubtful, therefore, whether
the price of new houses will drop
much, if any, further.
The improvement in the year’s
gross earnings (£156,646) was
£BlO2, of which exes, (£48,933)
made off with £4114. It was an
extra £15,789 set aside for the
taxgatherer (£49,943, of which
£6500 was a retrospective levy)
that pulled down the net result
by £ll,BOl. The £57,770 of profit
was 5.7 p.c. on capital as against
7.2, 8 and 7.3 p.c. back to 1949,
and approximately a level 6.1 p.c.
for the five years before that. So
reserves had to be drawn upon
for £2230 to pay the 6 p.c. div.,
which might be taken as an
indication that the cautious
board is satisfied with the out-
look.
Balance-sheet figures followed
the familiar banking pattern:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital 884,402 1,000,000 1,000,000
Deposits,
etc* . . 2,270,327 2,379,072 2,315.960
Final div... 31,927 39,630 30,000
Liquids . . 785,430 979,131 770.632
Advances, 2>568 937 2,603,311 2,698.337
Other assets 86,692 91,874 121,022
Premiums.. 37,225 37,225 46,5<8
* Includes balance due to other banks.
To meet a contraction of £63,112
in deposits, etc., and growths of
£95,026 in advances, £29,148 in
other assets and £9353 in
premises, the co. drew upon
liquids for £208,499. There was
little change in the amount de-
posited on “special” account
(£100,106) with the central bank.
Liquids amounted to 33.3 p.c. of
liabilities to the public and
advances to 74.2 p.c. of total
assets when the books closed.
With the lift in the charge for
advances from 4% p.c. to 5 p.c.
just before the close of accounts,
and since costs and conditions
generally look like becoming
more settled, prospects of a
better showing at next balance
are encouraging.
At 21s. 9d. the f.-p. £1 shares,
covered by 255. lOd. in net tan-
gibles, return 5.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis, or 6.4 p.c. should the
rate be lifted to 7 p.c. again.
On behalf of the Common-
wealth Government the Zinc
Corporation group is to make a
detailed examination of prospec-
tive uranium deposits at Rum
Jungle (N.T.), and will develop
and work any found rich enough
for the purpose. Using scintillo-
meters, an aerial survey from
near Darwin to 30 miles south of
Katherine has reported some 50
radioactive anomalies, and
ground parties are on their way
to test the indications. In South
Australia, Zinc Corp. is also
doing some deep test-drilling at
Radium Hill, and the State Gov-
ernment, in co-operation with
Federal authorities, proposes to
erect a £48,000 uranium research
laboratory at Parkside.
* * * *
A 1 Consolidated, Gaffney’s
Creek (Vic.), is seeking authority
to issue 18,000 new 10s. shares
at a premium of 15s. each, pay-
able ss. application and two calls
of 10s. each during the first half
of 1953. That will lift paid
capital to £45,000 in 108,000 10s,
shares, of which 18,000 will be
f.-p. and the balance paid to Bs.
each. The new capital (including
the premium) is wanted to help
pay the co.’s share (£35,000) of
the cost (£125,000) of a; power-
transmission line, and for electri-
fication of the mine, the idea
being to reduce costs. Morning
Star and the State Government
are to put up the balance of the
money, £70,000 and £lO,OOO
respectively. Power is expected
to be available before the end of
1953. With 10-head of stamps
operating —another 10-head is
being installed —A 1 treated 9424
tons for 95080 z. standard gold
during the year to Aug. 31 last.
Including £7142 premiums on
sale of gold, the profit was
£49,905, equal to 11.1 s. a share,
and four divs. totalling £22,500,
or ss. per share, were paid.
Another 2s. a share went out on
Oct. 29, making total dividend
payments to date £747,000.
When the books closed current
assets amounted to £78,752, of
which £12,496 was stores.
Current liabilities totalled £6338.
Ore reserves, which have never
been far ahead of the mill, were
estimated at 15,000 tons averag-
ing 12dwt, with more payable
stuff indicated on Nos. 17 and
18 levels. The market prices the
scrip at 495., or thereabouts.
* * * *
After re-examination by con-
sulting engineer C. E. Blackett,
ore-reserves of Australian De-
velopment, N.L., star performer
on the Tennant Creek field, have
increased in value by nearly £1
million, reaching £si million at
June 30 last. Tonnage remained
the same as a year previously,
namely 206,000 tons, but posi-
tive ore increased from 86,000
tons to 170,000 tons, and the
overall grade went up from
30dwt. to 36dwt.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The most wonderful Christmas-tree in
the city stands in the grounds of the
Independent Church, Collins-street. It
is not because of the tinsel decorations
and the fairy-lights burning in its green
branches; toys and books are left at
its base by a generous public, and on
Christmas Day the church staff will dis-
tribute the gifts to little children in need
of them.
# # v
Many guests from country districts
were in St. Andrew’s Church, Brighton,
for the wedding of Constance Rosemary,
eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thornton
Grimwade, of Urana, Lismore (N.S.W.).
The bride’s gown of white organdie was
trimmed with Swiss embroidery and had
long sleeves, a bouffant skirt and a full
train. Her tulle veil was held with a pearl
coronet (which her mother wore at her
wedding), and she carried a posy of
stephanotis. Attending the bride were
her sisters, Mrs. John Mercer and Deborah
Grimwade, and the ’groom’s sister
Patricia. Their white chiffon frocks over
pale-pink net had draped bodices and
long sleeves. Half-circlets of pink Cecile
Brunner roses and gardenias worn in their
hair matched their posies. The bride-
groom was Michael, youngest son of Mr.
and Mrs. C. Crozier-Durham, of
Brighton. His best man was Peter
Goddard and his groomsmen John
Mercer, of Derrinallum, and Colin
Browne, of Lockhart (N.S.W.). Recep-
tion was at the Toorak home of the
bride’s uncle and aunt, Sir Russell and
Lady Grimwade. Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Crozier-Durham will make their home
at Poplar Farm, Lismore.
# # #
Last year Bruce Leahy organised
a men’s committee to work for
the Victorian Baby Health Centres’
Association Now a businessmen’s per-
manent committee has been formed to
provide a steady flow of money to the
association. Sir Herbert Olney, the first
chairman, has resigned and in his
place is Sir Leslie McConnan, Present-
ing the annual report. Dr. Barbara
Meredith told the meeting that 33 new
health centres had been opened in the
past year, 12 of them in migrant camps
and hostels. Since the opening of the
Queen Elizabeth Maternal Centre 30
sisters had been trained there and 12
infant-welfare sisters given special re-
fresher courses. In discussing the men’s
committee, Bruce Leahy said that, as it;
was self-contained and independent of
the association, one of its members might
be appointed to the management com-
mittee of the Q.E. Centre to help its
financial problems. With Sir Leslie to
guide it, the committee should prosper.
# # V
Large bowls of Christmas lilies, red
gladioli and deep-blue hydrangeas gave
a festive air to the reception-rooms of
the East St. Kilda home of the Saul
Aarons, when over 50 guests were enter-
tained at a Christmas party. Dr, Joe
Aarons came down from Terang with
his wife and their baby son Mark. Mrs.
Aarons, whose parties are always an
event, wore a pretty hyacinth-blue linen
frock. Among the guests were Dr, and
Mrs. Bill McDermott, Gray Staley and
his wife, John and Vera Langley, Mr.
and Mrs. John Carrodus (Mrs. Carrodus
and the hostess often combine in organis-
ing some charity function), Mr. and Mrs.
H. Jacobsen, the J. C, Davis couple and
Alyce Wyatt.
«r ☆ ☆
At St. Andrew’s Church, East Malvern,
Marjorie, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. J. Price, of East Malvern, was married
to Lieutenant Eric Neeson, R.A.N., elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. P. G. Neeson, of
Wollongong (N.S.W.). The bride wore
a classical gown of French brocaded satin,
and her Limerick-lace veil, lent by Mrs.
E. Tuck, of Cheltenham, was mounted
on tulle and held by a pearl coronet.
Her bouquet was of orchids. Roma
Preston ’maided in a bouffant gown of
pastel-blue frosted organdie and she
carried a posy of orchids. John Neeson
was best man. Reception was at Glen-
dower, Queen’s-road.
# # #
President of the Housewives’ Associa-
tion, Mrs. Gladys Hain, and secretary
Rachel Robinson welcomed more than
80 guests at the annual break-up party.
Colored streamers, Christmas-bells and
plentiful floral decorations made gay the
clubrooms in Howey Court. Guests in-
cluded Lady Hay and representatives
from 15 branches of the association,
☆ ☆ ☆
Social scribes in this city have been
caught up in the festive net. Mrs, Roy
Chambers entertained newspaperwomen
at the Quamby Club, and this was fol-
lowed by the luncheon Mrs. Stanley Smith
gave at Scott’s Hotel. Then came the
dinner given by Elizabeth Arden of New
York at Menzies’ but presided over by
her deputy, Dorothea Ganley. A charm-
ing manner of saying “thank-you/’ but
oh, how devastating for the figure!
# # #
When Maree, only child of Mr. and
Mrs. C. Austin of Hurlstone Park
( N.S.W. ), was 17 she decided to make
the stage her career. Petite, blonde and
attractive, Maree is making a great hit
as the pert maid in “The White Sheep of
the Family” at the Princess Theatre. She
began her career in variety with Will
Mahoney; for six months she was in
Tasmania with Fifi Banvard’s company,
alternating with drama and comedy. But
it is in musical comedy that Maree wants
to make her name, and she also wants
to go overseas. Riding and dancing are
her recreations. John Hearder photo.
Highlight of the buffet-dinner party
given by Mr, and Mrs. Eric Fowler in
their Toorak home was the showing ol
films which recorded the travels of hos
and hostess overseas ; this included the
Trooping of the Color. Mrs, Fowler’
black frock was beaded and featured
draped skirt. Her daughter Mary Louise
who was with her husband, Dr. Desmonc
Hollywood, assisted her mother, as die
second daughter Roma, whose husband
Wing-Commander Peter Parker, helpec
show the films. A slim black faille frock
with the skirt composed of wide tucks
was the choice of Mrs. J. A. Mclnerney
whose husband, also contributed greatly
to the amusement of the evening ; Alice
Adcock’s ballerina frock was of bronze
taffeta spotted with gold.
* ☆ ☆
There were about 50 guests at the
luncheon given by Mr. and Mrs. Jack
Steele at their Hastings property, Illa-
langi, and all were friends of the recently-
married Mr. and Mrs. Graham Oliver
(she was formerly Gloria Ladd). Among
those who enjoyed the day were Mrs.
W. H. Horsfall (Gloria’s mother) and
her grandmother, Mrs. Hedley, and
brother Hedley Ladd and his wife, Col.
and Mrs. Malcolm McArthur, Bertie
Hotchkiss and his wife, Cr. and Mrs.
Maurice Nathan, the Henry Walterses
and the Bill Cooks, Mrs. A. G. Silk, Mr.
and Mrs. Lionel Newton, Mrs. Frank
McDonald and Mrs. Frank Matthews.
# #
Mrs. I. C. Seelt-Lagawaard, of Rotter-
dam, was guest-of-honor at a birthday-
party given by her daughter, Mrs, Charles
Burge. Mrs. Seelt-Lagawaard wore a
black wool romaine jacket-suit which had
a. pleated skirt. Mrs. Burge highlighted
her draped black frock with a wide ruffle
of white Swiss embroidery on the bodice.
Assisting her was her cousin, Mies
Hoogendoorn. Lady Collins was in a
grey tailored suit, Lady Bruche in rose-
aink-and-white-patterned silk. Mrs. John
Inkster’s choice was a black frock and
hat Other guests were Mesdames J.
Middleton, C. Millet, R. Wayne Denbo,
Harcy Creswick, R, Zandiliet, F. H.
Wright, A. Kelway, Douglas Stephens,
Junior, F. Hobbill Cole, Rupert Greene
and Miss Mary Chomley.
SYDNEY
To say farewell to the first secretary
of the Philippine Consulate, Mr. T. Baja,
and Mrs, Baja, who leave for Indonesia
on Christmas Eve, the Consul-General
for Nicaragua, Mr. C. Paray, and Mrs.
Paray entertained about 400 guests at
their Point Piper home on Friday night.
Colored lights decorated the grounds and
supper was seryed on the piazza overlook-
ing the water.* The Premier and Mrs.
J. J. Cahill were present, also the Consul-
General for the Philippines with Madame
Regala, the Prince del Drago, the Consul-
General for Italy, Dr. Daneo, and Mrs.
Daneo, Lady Doverdale and Major
Ro-wal (who left for England on Satur-
day), Mr. Justice Roper and Mrs. Roper,
Sir Claude and Lady Plowman, Sir Henry
and Lady Moxham, Mr. and Mrs.
Anthony Hordern, Mrs. S. H. Roberts,
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Johnson, and Mr.
and Mrs, Len Robb.
☆ ☆ ☆
Flower arrangements were the out-
standing feature of the Christmas-party
and annual general meeting of the Garden
Club. President Mrs. Arthur Davis had
made tall blue angels and there was a
charming tableau of red-robed choristers
going to church on a snowy morning,
the work of Miss Oxenford. Mrs. R. J.
Carden, of Cheltenham, had arranged the
huge bowls of flowers on the stage and
made the silvery reindeer in the back-
ground. Among the many lovely flower-
arrangements shown were two by Mrs.
Verner Cocks, miniature winter scenes by
Mrs. Alan Morgan and Mrs. David
Klippel (the club’s new honorary secre-
tary), an attractive grouping of shasta-
daisies by Mrs. T. H. Vidler and a most
unusual arrangement by Mrs. A. B.
Maher, who had used such strange things
as painted gumnuts, tropical shells and
even a fungus from Paradise (N.Q.). The
supper, which w T as under the supervision
of Mrs. M. McGuinness, was served from
tables featuring flowers again, a cake
made of gardenias and a real Christmas-
cake which had been made by Mrs. T, H.
Carrington. Lieut-General F. H. Berry-
man (who is a vice-president of the club)
took the chair at the meeting, and Mrs.
Berryman was also present.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lesley Newton-Scott, of Potts Point,
marries Morris Sinclair at St. Michael’s
Church, Vaucluse, tomorrow, when she
will be attended by two matrons-of-
honor, her sister Mrs. Ken Stafford (she
was Peggy Newton-Scott ) and Mrs. Bruce
Graham. Mr. Bruce Graham, M.P., will
be best man. The honeymoon is to be
spent at Hayman Island. Photograph by
Hugh Spencer.
The “Mistletoe Frolic” organised by the
Headquarters’ Younger Set for the N.S.W,
Society for Crippled Children featured a
lucky Christmas-tree laden with gifts and
seasonable decorations where mistletoe
was conspicuous by its presence. Lucky
tickets were sold for the gifts and they
really were lucky, for every one of them
won a prize. Patron of this Younger Set,
Mrs. G. B. Kater, was present with her
husband (they are just back from abroad),
and the president of the Society for
Crippled Children, Mr. K. F. Coles, was
there with Mrs. Coles. Beverley Grant,
president of the Headquarters’ Younger
Set, received the guests.
Some witty sketches added to the merr
ment at the Christmas-party of the In
dependent Theatre on Sunday night, whe
the main auditorium was the scene fo
music, dancing and a general reunion
Miss Doris Fitton extended a welcomin
hand to guests along with Mrs. Waite
Sunning, who is president of the socia
committee, which small band includec
Mrs. E. Cormack Skea, Miss Madg
Ryan, Mrs. Keith Vyden, Mrs. Car
Wilson, Mrs. Erik Langker, Mrs. W.
Inman and Mrs. Sylvia Quist
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Fj H. Berryman would welcom
gifts of flowers for the old people
Christmas-party at St. Michael’s Churc
of England, Surry Hills, on Christma
Eve. The flowers, which will be given t
the old people to take home after th
party, may be left at the church hal
corner of Albion- and Flinders-streets
or at the A.W.A. Building (12th floor^
on the morning of the 24th.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Christmas meeting of th
Sydney branch of the International P.E.N
Club Mr. Justice Maxwell spoke on th
subject of Magna Carta as a pledge anc
symbol of the" British way of life. It
two essentials were, he said, that th
State exists for the individual, not th
individual for the State, and that we are
what we are because of the rule of law
One of the most frightening things tha
we find in modern life, he said, is the
growing disregard for law and order, bu
without the rule of law the things fo
which Magna Carta stands would be los
to us for ever.
Greeting his Honor was the president
Mr. Max Afford, and Mrs. Afford, who
also welcomed Mr. and Mrs. Erik
Langker, Mrs. A. Murphy, Mrs. Nourma
Handford, Mr. R. J. F. Boyer, Mr. T. C
Roughley and the Leo Listers. Also
present was Mrs. Beatrice Bridges, who
has recently returned from an eight-month
trip abroad which included Italy, France
England and America. Mrs. Bridges
who is in charge of the editorial depart-
ment at Angus and Robertson’s, took a
special interest in publishing methods
abroad, which she found on the whole
more specialised than those used here.
Another interesting person encountered
at the P.E.N. Club was Major Raven
Hart, author of 12 books, who was visit-
ing Australia briefly on his way to New
Zealand, where he hopes to study the
Maoris in the Bay of Plenty area and to
navigate the Wanganui in a canoe. Major
Raven Hart is an expert canoer (he
prefers this word to canoeist, which
“savors of the professional,” he says). He
has already traversed Sturt’s route from
Gundagai to Morgan’s Bend, and has
written a book about it. He is immensely
tail, bearded and speaks Esperanto (as
as a myriad other languages),
# & &
The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Aid. and Mrs. P. D. Hills) gave a recep-
tion during the week for members of the
John Alden Company when they returned
from their 12-month tour of the capital
cities of Australia. It was heartening to
hear how successful this Shakspearian
company has been, and if a liking for
Shakspeare is a criterion of culture, then
the palm must be handed to Perth as our
most cultured city, for it was there that
the Company was most rapturously re-
ceived.
# # #
- Hundreds of pounds of steak and hun-
dreds of pounds of sausages were pro-
vided for the barbecue organised by
the Sydney University Dental Under-
graduates’ Association, as well as four
enormous Christmas cakes especially
baked by undergraduate Trixie McGirr,
at whose home, Sunray, North Sydney,
the barbecue was held. President of the
association Peter Kempnich did the
honors for about 400 guests, among whom
were Matron Clarice Frederick of the
Dental Hospital and Judith Arnott, who
represented her father, the Dean of the
Faculty of Dentistry.
# # #
To say farewell to Mr. Justice Maxwell,
who is one of its vice-presidents, and to
Mrs. Maxwell, the Australian Council for
International Social Service gave a cock-
tail-party at the Royal Blind Society on
Thursday. The director, Miss Aileen Fitz-
patrick, received the guests, assisted by
Mrs. Eugene Goossens. Among them
were Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Thompson,
the Countess Poninski, Miss Zillah Bock-
ing, Mrs. Alice M. Young, Dr. and Mrs.
Louat, and Mr. J. W. Cameron. Judge
and Mrs. Maxwell sail on December 31
for the Continent, where the judge will
study liquor laws and drinking customs.


Missing Beneficiary
JENSEN "or CARL—Would the next-of-
kin of JOHN CARL JENSEN, known as
JOHN CARL, who died at Jemalong
Station, Forbes, on 27th June, 1961, aged
61 years, or anyone knowing their where-
abouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, quoting “Estate of 'John Carl
Jensen”?
Missing Friend
’ RAYMOND BURTON.
WILL RAYMOND BURTON, a son of
WM. F. BURTON, deceased, or anyone
knowing oi his whereabouts, please com-
municate with THE FIDELITY TRUSTEE
CO. LTD., of 101 Lydiard Street North,
Ballarat, Victoria.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artursts
Small Paintings
A small exhibition of small
paintings at the Grosvenor
Galleries, Sydney, includes con-
tributions from Dargie, Langker,
Townshend, George Lawrence,
Harley Griffiths, Garret
Kingsley, Margaret Coen, Drys-
dale, Haefliger, Jean Bellette,
Salvana, Woodward Smith,
Douglas Watson and others.
Most of them, like those in the
other Christmas exhibition (at
the Macquarie Galleries), might
be classed as small autographs,
but there are the freshness of salt
air and sunlight about Harley
Griffiths’s “Sketch Valendam,”
and an almost unexpected
strength in three Townshend
paintings—in “Farm Buildings”
it derives from the harsh light
and avoidance of color; in
“Northern Road” from the con-
trast of heavy cloud and light;
and in “Dee Why Landscape”
from the dark mass of hills and
sky.
George Lawrence’s “Land-
scape Harrow” has more life and
spontaneity than his usual
sombre landscapes; Garret
Kingsley’s “Profile” is a sensitive
little portrait with excellent sug-
gestions of flesh and bone
beneath the surface; Margaret
Coen’s “King’s Cross from
Cremorne” is distinguished by a
spacious sky with the elusive
colors that one sees so often over
Sydney Harbor ; and a note of
lyricism breaks through the
smooth formality of S. Wood-
ward Smith’s “March Morning.”
❖ ❖ ❖
Art and Committees
Emulating the National
Theatre, which approached ex-
Premier Hollway, the Victorian
Drama League has approached
Victorian Premier-elect Cain
anent a Government grant to
raise the standard of amateur
drama, and has received “certain
assurances” from that whale for
culture.
Subsidies of this sort are now
the order of the day in every
country, not only in Communist-
controlled ones. They have
rarely done any good. They
have never raised standards,
though they may maintain
them. Therd is always a com-
mittee, or a council, or some
official body to supervise the
spending of the money and to
act as censors, and they have
never produced one first-rate
author, playwright, composer or
creative artist.
The reason is that they judge
art by standards. Art is an
individual thing, and the new
artist is the last person to be
recognised by a committee whose
judgments are determined by
prevailing standards. An ex-
ample is the contemporary
Indian art which has been tour-
ing Australia and has recently
turned up at the National Gal-
lery in Melbourne.
Why it was admitted into the
holy of holies which enshrines
the Rembrandts passes the
imagination. It is sponsored by
an Indian Art Council appointed
by the new Government of
India. Whether any significant
art is being produced in India,
I don’t know, but, if so, the
council must have missed it. The
collection, which has been sent
out under the care of two in-
telligent, cultured Indian art
officials, is a miserable travesty
of every European art style for
the past four generations.
Some of the artists allegedly
carry on the magnificent tradi-
tion of Indian decorative, but,
somehow or other, they seem to
have got crossed with modern
American magazine illustration.
Some imitate English academ-
ism, some French impressionism
and some post-impressionism.
Others look more as if they had
emanated from the Melbourne
Technical College than from the
India of the glorious background
of temple sculpture which dates
back centuries before Alexander
and his generals accidentally
brought the Greek influence to
Asia. None has the glorious
spontaneity of the old Hindu
sculpture, which is only repre-
sented in the exhibition by a few
photographs of temple buildings.
Modern Indian artists must be
very like most of their Aus-
tralian brothers —instead of
looking at life they have been
looking at somebody else’s pic-
tures. Instead of Wasting their
time and money in bringing out
a superfluous demonstration
that their own artists are just as
blatant imitators of foreign
“Very wrapped-up in his Work.”
fashions as our own are, it would
have been far better if our
Indian friends had brought out
just one ancient example of the
dancing Siva, or a few fragments
of the voluptuous carvings
from one of their erotic temples.
F.S.
Stage and Music
“They All Do It”
This modern version of
Mozart’s “Cosi fan Tutte” des-
cended out of a clear sky onto
the small stage of the Arrow
Theatre, Middle Park, and
turned out to be the most de-
licious item of the musical year
in Melbourne. Mozart wrote it
at the age of 30, and it sounds
as if he did it in one continuous
burst of inspiration, possibly in
24 hours, and after 160 years it
seems as near perfection as any-
thing is' likely to be in this
world. It ripples and runs and
sparkles without a pause from
start to finish.
The Emperor Josef II com-
manded the first performance,
but the awful banality of the
libretto by Da Ponte banished it
from the opera-houses until
somebody made this modern
adaptation. It is still inanity, but
inanity of a different order, Don
Alfonso lays a wager with two
officers, Guglielmo and Fer-
rando, that, given the chance,
their fiancees, Fiordiligi and
Dorabella, will prove unfaithful.
They pretend that their regiment
has been ordered to Havana, dis-
guise themselves as Russians and
return and lay siege to the two
damsels. Each is equally suc-
cessful, and a notary is called
in to draw up the marriage con-
tracts. The officers go out and
return in their proper clobber,
and in a final glorious burst of
brilliant melody a reconciliation
is affected.
It is all nonsense, but the way
the Arrow people played it, for
some strange reason, or because
of the overwhelming gaiety of
the music, there didn’t seem to
be anything incongruous about
it, Ruth Farren-Price sat at one
piano. Max Olding at another,
and succeeded admirably in con-
cealing the fact that there was
no orchestra on the payroll.
There were no stars among the
performers Edwin Liddle,
Charles Doming, John Shaw,
June Dawkins, Nina Cooke and
Wilma Whitney—and nobody
stood out and nobody fell down
as the six were carried along on
the flood of Mozart’s music.
If an extra pat on the back is
called for it goes to Charles
Doming, who produced it. Mr.
Doming is the South African
baritone who came from Lon-
don in 1950 to star as Edvard
Grieg in “Song of Norway,”
and, as he found that he liked
Australia and Australians, de-
cided to stay in Melbourne. With
the exception of Nina Cooke,
all the others were Australians.
*X* ❖
Hobart Rep.
Hobart Repertory Society’s
special Christmas show was
“Beauty and the Beast,” a three-
act 13-scene opus, produced by
Fifi Banvard. Disney-like sets
and some amazing trick effects
helped Miss Banvard achieve an
out - of - this - world atmosphere
which fought a losing battle
with the matter-of-fact acting by
the cast, A notable exception
was Robert Ashton, who played
the vague but lovable Wizard
with just the right degree of
whimsical charm.
Doreen Dakin and Peter Mar-
shall in the title roles gave con-
fident but unimaginative per-
formances. Graeme Round just
missed as the naughty Dragon,
and John Baldwin was incom-
parably stodgy as Beauty’s
father.
Generally, the play was under-
produced, which was unfortun-
ate, as otherwise the presentation
had all the trappings necessary to
make it the finest children’s play
seen in Hobart for years,
ifa -ije
The rain was off, but the
mosquitoes were on, for the
second of the orchestral con-
certs in the Alexandra Gardens,
Melbourne, which their A.B.C.
sponsors have given the opti-
mistic title of “Symphonies
Under the Stars.” There were
upwards of 4000 human bodies
for the insects to feed on. The
music was so good, however,
and was carried so well by the
A.B.C.’s amplifying system, that
these minor irritations didn’t
matter, and the well-modulated
soprano of Marjorie Conley, the
vocal-competition winner from
Sydney, was listened to with
rapt attention.
Talkies
“The Holly and the Ivy”
This neatly-integrated and
beautifully-told drama about an
English country vicar whose
family don’t really get to know
him until a Christmas family
reunion brings to light an
incident in the life of one of his
daughters is yet another example
of the peculiar genius for
domestic-life theatre enjoyed by
English film-makers. A deep
human understanding lights up
every foot of it, while the
problem of the thirtyish daughter
whose self-imposed duty of look-
ing after her widowed father
threatens to wreck her marriage
chances is handled with fine
subtlety.
Ralph Richardson gives a
superb portrait of the parson
who, for the first time in his life,
as an old man, sees his children
as they really are, and who at last
delights them by his rare under-
standing of their problems and
by the worldliness of his views
that they had so little suspected.
Everything here is understated
in the best British stage and film
tradition, Celia Johnson is the
sacrificial daughter. There are
several character parts, two in
particular—one a maiden aunt of
severe views, the other a senti-
mental, gentle widow, whose
portrayal is a joy to behold. At
Sydney Century.
*X* & ♦♦♦
Sydney Savoy
The Savoy, which brings to
Sydney an uncommonly fine
array of French and Italian
films, has a most promising pro-
gramme fined up for 1953.
When the current season of
“Pagliacci” ends, it will be fol-
lowed by “Manon,” and, after
that, “II Trovatore.” Later in
the year will come a filmed
version of “The Marriage of
Figaro.”
Apart from filmed opera, the
theatre will also offer a French
comedy, “Jour de Fete,” a
Swedish film of Strindberg’s
“Miss Julie,” Robert Kapferer’s
“Woman of Antwerp,” and a
French film of Chevallier’s
delightful novel, Clochemerle,
which, it is pleasant to report,
passed through the censor’s office
unscathed.
Also listed for a short season,
if it can be fitted in, is Cocteau’s
“Beauty and the Beast,” which
is reviewed on this page by The
Bulletin’s Melbourne com-
mentator.
+*♦ ♦♦♦
“Beauty and the Beast”
This, at Melbourne Savoy, is
Jean Cocteau, being abominably
clever in a very ordinary inter-
pretation of a well-known fairy-
story.
A businessman, lost in a
storm, finds shelter in the garden
of a rococo castle and picks a
rose because his daughter Beauty
asked him for one. His act
instantly conjures up a strange
figure, half-beast, half-man, and
hairy all over and with a silly
look of amiable ferocity on his
simple visage.
The creature spares the busi-
nessman’s life on condition that
he sends Beauty to share his
domicile, which she does with
an understandable reluctance, as
the castle is replete with statues
which move their eyes and shoot
arrows, arms without bodies
which pour her wine out, pass
her viands and undress her,
while the Beast makes occasional
appearances with smoking hands
and blood - stained clothing,
though he is really a good Beast,
and asks her at seven every even-
ing most politely to marry him,
despite his bestial exterior.
He gives her a week off from
his attentions, and she returns
home, only to be disgusted by
the spiritual emptiness of her
family. She decides she loves
the Beast for his gentleness and
nobility in trying not to be a
beast, and goes back to find him
dying. Her worldly lover climbs
over the garden wall to steal the
Beast’s treasure, but a statue of
Diana runs an arrow through
him and he becomes the 6east,
while the Beast rises from the
body transmogrified into a
Prince Charming.
Possibly Cocteau had some
philosophical idea in his head
when he wrote the piece, but,
if so, it doesn’t come out in the
presentation, although the pro-
ducers have lavished on it all
the wealth of their arty-crafty
imaginations and' good-looking
Jean Marais and the lovely
Josette Day give it some lively
acting.
❖ * ♦
“Robin Hood”’
After seeing, at Sydney Plaza,
Disney’s version of the goings-
on at Nottingham and in Sher-
wood Forest one can only agree
with Keats on Robin Hood —
No, those days are gone away,
And their hours are old and grey.
And their minutes buried all
Under the down-trodden pall
Of the leaves of many years!
Disney’s particular magic is
either missing or insufficient to
disturb the leaves, and the
“grene shawe” seems so unreal
that it would not have been very
surprising if Snow White and the
Seven Dwarfs had suddenly
emerged therefrom. Only James
Robertson Justice’s Little John
comes to life as one likes to
remember him; Will Scarlet,
Friar Tuck, Alan A’Dale and the
rest of them are all too much of
the films. Robin, as played by
Richard Todd, and Maid Marian
(Joan Rice) look more like the
’teenage habitues of a milk-bar
than anything else. Peter Finch’s
Sheriff of Nottingham is a hand-
somely evil but remarkably life-
less portrait.
Possibly, of course, the fault is
not with Disney; possibly the
magic has run out of us with
age; but it did seem that the
theatreful of youngsters were
only enthralled by the occasional
moments of stereotyped derring-
do and were unaware that any-
thing else was missing.


A HOUSEFUL OF BARGAINS
by BRIAN JAMES
‘< I . \ HAT always beats me
\A/ is k° w they think they
y\f can get away with it.”
Mrs. Burgin was
speaking. The words were
pleasantly worn into the smooth-
ness that indicates the moral
lesson of a story. After a pause
Mrs. Burgin would add “Not in
a place like Laidlaw.”
Mrs. Burgin was speaking of
sin. Mrs. Burgin loved sin; not
that she was a sinful woman, but
simply because she knew that sin
was intensely interesting.
Intensely humorous. Yes, sin
was funny. That is, sin in others
was funny.
Mrs. Burgin was a very nice
woman and good to look upon.
Very pleasant in face and
feature ; large brown eyes, frank
and honest, with a smile nearly
always playing hide-and-seek in
them ; not that she couldn’t be
serious, too, but never too
severely so, Nice brown hair —
soft hair with a natural, easy
wave in it, hair that lifted into
playful wisps in the breeze, but
never untidily so. True enough,
if you looked hard, you might
find a grey strand or two.
Voice rich, mellow, un-
affected, And —and—well, the
form of her wouldn’t have been
so hard to squeeze and cuddle.
Ten, fifteen years ago ago it
would have been easier still. No
great harm in thinking that; and
Mrs. Burgin wasn’t that sort of
woman.
She was forty-two, and quite
frankly owned to thirty-five of
those years. A woman so
truthful in such matters, where
the tendency is to deceive, is
one to be trusted. Fred was
forty-five. Everyone knew that.
So if she wasn’t exactly thirty-
five—well, she could have been.
]L|RS. BURGIN had made the
most amazing discovery that
sin and furniture are frequently
closely associated. In a broad,
general way ; not in any ribald
sense. Let Mrs. Burgin sum it
up; “After the bust-up comes
the sale.”
Mrs. Burgin loved sales. You
can often enough get things
cheap at sales —pick up things,
often things you really need and
haven’t the money to. buy new.
Get things for practically
nothing; for a mere trifle ; for
a song ; dirt-cheap ; have them
just slung at you at sales. That
was a big consideration, but not
everything. A sale is
always full of human
interest; history,
tragedy, comedy
what you will. Pal-
pitating hearts at
sales; disputed wills;
unfilial children; sel-
fish parents. Occa-
sionally there is the
happy sale, too, when
someone rejoices at
“shaking the dust of Laidlaw”
from his feet. There is good
humor; gossip; talk and
laughter; and auctioneering
repartee.
And there is that great sale, in
the sort of inevitable sequence
of night and day or summer and
Winter, that follows the final
bust-up. Here is the broken
home; here is furniture as the
wreck and flotsam that float on
a sea of blighted lives.
NOW all this prelude brings
you to Rooral (both syllables
heavily accented, and the name
may or may not be aboriginal in
origin). Rooral, as everyone
knows, is thirty-nine miles from
Laidlaw, one of Laidlaw’s seaside
resorts. A long tongue or
peninsula separates Rooral
Lagoon from the sea. On one
side the wide and moody Pacific
leans on the sandy shore and on
the other is the placid lake. And
between these contrasting waters
lies Rooral, pretty little Rooral,
with its cottages, huts, shacks,
tents —all blending into a picture
of yellow sands, dark-green
banksias, paper-bark tea-trees
and pandanus-palms. Heaven
smiles down on little Rooral and
sometimes winks at it.
The lagoon is never “closed.”
Twice a day the tide swirls in
and out, biting into the sand-
banks here, piling up new ones
there, making the entrance at
most times a marvellous fishing-
ground. Above the tidal rip
through the narrow gateway, the
lagoon opens into a glorious
lake, winding in and out of the
high hills, reflecting their
timbered slopes and heights, and
the white clouds, too, that some-
times float so lazily across the
summer sky. Here and there are
mudflats and mangroves; and
between the mangroves are the
oyster-leases—rows and rows of
stakes. At last, miles through the
hills, comes in the Rooral River,
broad and tidal, of course. And
here are blue smoke rising
through the bull-oaks, brown
nets drying on sapling rails and
boxes and boxes of choice blue-
nose whiting ready for transport
to Laidlaw.
And here the Burgins had
what is called a weekend cottage.
Fred referred to it, with some-
thing of deprecatory pride, as “a
bit of a shack at Rooral, you
know.” It wasn’t a shack.
There were four rooms in it, if
you counted the kitchen. The
kitchen was dining-room, too.
There was quite a decent front-
veranda that gave a view right
over the tussocky dune to the
blue ocean beyond. Roof, red in
oxide paint against the corroding
salt air; walls weatherboard and
painted white. The cottage stood
on long wooden piles, like stilts.
The Burgins went to Rooral
as often as they could. It was a
cheap holiday and splendid for
the two boys —fish-
ing, swimming, surf-
ing, boating.
TN Laidlaw the
-*■ Burgins were
middle-class. Fred —
“my husband you
know” was the
business head of
Worral and Co.’s
emporium, a little
goldmine in itself. The Worrals
were legendary. There were
Worrals once, active and enter-
prising Worrals, but all gone
now. A company ran the busi-
ness.
The Burgins were comfortably
off and lived in a pretentious
place on the banks of the
Graham. The notches on the
social measuring-stick are much
the same everywhere. The
Burgins were only middle-class.
No good complaining of that,
Lucky ones and cunning ones
certainly did at times manage
to cheat the decrees of Destiny,
and then most likely they were
found out and set back a peg or
two. Again, Mrs. Burgin must
be quoted in her wisdom —“The
higher you go the further you
fall”—varied sometimes to “the
harder you bump.” The fall and
bump were extremely interesting,
and everyone watched intently.
Mrs. Burgin wasn’t a
“climber.” Certainly she did
“know” certain great ones: they
nodded to her, even spoke to her
in brief intervals at the, cathedral.
She had “met” Mrs. Feather-
stone, leader in all Laidlaw
things Worth while; Mrs.
Featherstone was a dowager, a
criterion and a matriarch. And
she had “visited”—only once —
Mrs. Frost, whose husband was
that same Dr. Frost who had
sent her to the specialist that
time. Dr. Frost was the leading
doctor in Laidlaw, “the leader of
that little gang in Bunya-street.”
Bunya was the local equivalent
of Harley, Macquarie or Collins.
She had —only once —gone to the
great town - house of the
Hamiltons —the Hamiltons of
the big Woottamolla station.
But she didn’t, she said, set
much store on these incursions.
They meant little to her. She
was satisfied with her own circle.
“A woman’s place is, after all,
her own home,” she said. “I
have my husband and my boys
to look after. I find that a full-
time job.” And then she
wondered greatly how some
women managed at all.
SHE was so secure of Fred.
Fred was a nice fellow.
Good-humored, good-natured.
THE four little pictures of furniture let into the tj pe of this
story are . untouched reproductions from advertisements in
“The Bulletin” for 1887 and 1890. The chest-of-drawers, Cedar,
7 drawers, pine-lined,” would cost at least £2O second-hand today.
In 1880 the price, evidently for slight variations in design o
si/e was “475. 6d., 50s. and 555.” The Whatnot was advertised
as “Drawing-room Cabinets; Early English Chippendale Designs
The couch, with “spring-set head, full spring-set edge and seat,
covered in first-class fancy cretonne,’ cost £3 19s. new. ine
metal bedsteads, nickel-plated, or black and brass, or brass, sold
from 15s. to 20 guineas.
Easy to get on with. And Fred
was good-looking —in a big
manly way, that was. Fairly
tall, well built, striking face.
Direct, very blue eyes, smooth-
shaven. Full head of close-
clipped, greying black hair, as
crisp and businesslike as his
manner at work.
Fred was popular, too, and, of
course “in” this and that —
secretary for this, auditor for
that and president of something
else. Very busy man. And doing
it all for her —more for her than
himself, as it should be. He
found favor in the sight of other
women. That didn’t matter and
Fred couldn’t help that. It was
nice, too, when one was so sure
of him.
And all this made the furniture
at Rooral the more exciting.
The weekender was full of furni-
ture, all kinds of furniture,
garnerings and gatherings from
many sales. Furniture of infinite
variety and incongruity of period
and make. And mostly of good
quality. When Mrs. Burgin
gazed on that furniture as she
often did—well, you would
hardly say she gloated, for the
term did not suit her--she did
feel a thrill of satisfaction. Every
bit of it almost was a piece of
Laidlaw history, and, at that,
history of misdoing and
mischance.
CAME the holidays ; Christmas
and New Year breaks. The
boys, both of them at Laidlaw
High School, had the long
summer vacation, a fair part of
which the Burgins would spend
at Rooral. Mr. Burgin had only
the long weekends ; four days at
Christmas, which fell on a
Monday, and the break at N?w
Year. In between he had to be
at his job, driving down the
thirty-nine miles for his time off.
Christmas had gone. Mr.
Burgin had already returned to
Laidlaw and his job at Worral
and Co., four days of it till the
New Year break. Many others
had left Rooral, too. Freed
from most of the extra worries
of preparing food at a fuel-stove,
Mrs. Burgin Was seated at her
ease in a big chair on her front
veranda. The heat and haze of
summer had drifted from the
land to the scarce-
moving sea. The
boys were out in
their boat some-
where on Rooral
lagoon. Twixt sleep
and wake, happily
tired in body and mind, Mrs.
Burgin gazed unseeingly over the
dune, over the sea.
“Well!” said a voice from no
definable distance. “Well! And
you look so comfortable that I
hardly like to disturb you.”
Mrs. Burgin opened her
reluctant eyes and tried to focus
attention with her tardy ears.
And the voice, nearer now and
clearer: “I really Ido believe,
Edie, that you are asleep.”
Mrs. Burgin sat up and
lethargy fell from her. And a
new and pleasurable sensation
filled her. “It’s you, Alice! Do
you know, I was thinking of
you —hoping you might look in.
Come in and sit down.”
“Not if I’m going to disturb
you, Edie. You were having
such a nice siesta.”
“But I assure you, Alice, I
was merely day-dreaming.”
Alice came up the front steps
to the railed-in veranda. She
had intended coming in what-
ever state Mrs. Burgin might be
in. Alice was that Mrs. Minto
from Laidlaw whose husband
held a somewhat similar position
to Mrs. Burgin’s, but in Farran
and Smith’s. Farran and Smith’s
was a smaller emporium than
Worral and Co., and so, if you
really liked to make distinctions,
the Mintos were on a slightly
lower social shelf than the
Burgins.
But Mrs. Burgin had often
said that she never thought of
such things, and to prove that
she never thought of such things,
she said so.
“Well, Edie, I will say this
for you—you do know how to
make yourself comfortable.”
Mrs. Minto eased her thin frame
into another easy-chair, some-
what like that Mrs. Burgin was
occupying, but different in
covering.
THAT greatly pleased Mrs.
Burgin. “When Fred com-
plains that I’m filling the place
with frap, as he calls it, I say to
him ‘But look how cheap it is!’
I’ve got the whole place,” she
gave a backward wave to the
wall behind her, “full of
wonderful things that I bought
for a mere song. You got over
Christmas all right?”
“Just about. I’ve had
Christmas, Edie. There’s not
much to it or there’s too much
really.”
“Of course, you’ve had a
houseful.”
“Oh, mother’s easy, and I do
like to give her a little holiday
when 1 can. The least one can
do, I think. It’s not mother.
But my brother Dick had to
come — she invited them ...”
“Who?”
“Mrs. Dick, of course.”
“Oh!”
“Dick’s all right. A bit soft,
though I do say it, and he’s my
own brother. And I wouldn’t
have had them even if it wasn’t
for mother. She likes the family
about her at Christmas, and all
that sort of thing, of course. And
it wouldn’t be so bad if we had
the room and the
beds, but we haven’t.
We don’t own the
place, as you do
here, and the fur-
nishings are pretty
miserable.”
“Mrs. Dick!”
“Oh, I know —I shouldn’t
talk, but it’s different to you, of
course. She’s a tartar in her own
way.”
“I thought she was nice.”
“So she is—if you don’t know
her, and don’t have to share a
house with her.”
“I’m sorry, Alice” —which
being interpreted meant —“I am
jolly glad I’m not in your shoes.”
“Oh, I know that, Edie, and
that’s why I don’t mind telling
you” —meaning: “I know jolly
well that you enjoy seeing me
in a fix.”
“And their children?”
“Awful! Five! What do
people want five for? We have
three, and Bob and I reckon
three’s enough for anyone these
days. But Dick was always a, bit
soft, even if he is my brother.”
“It must make it difficult.”
“You’d never believe! There’s
not half-enough beds —mother
and I had two kids in the double
bed. It’s not fair to mother
really, to say nothing of our-
selves. But you know what these
rented seasiders are like. What
do they care?”
“Alice, my dear, I am sorry.
But look—we’ve got more than
we know what to do with here ;
all that frap, as Fred calls it.”
“Oh, we mustn’t worry you
like this —you’ll make me sorry
I said anything.”
“My dear Alice, don’t be silly.
Wait till you see the boys’-room.
Stretcher - beds, camp - beds,
blankets and sheets —piled up in
two corners. You can hardly
move in the room for all the
frap, as Fred calls it.”
“We couldn’t think of it —put-
ting you out like that.”
“Of course you can think of
it! Come along and look at it.”
THEY went along and looked
at it to the tune of “Well, I
never!” “What do you know
about that! ” And, “Who’d have
thought it?” from Mrs. Minto.
To which Mrs. Burgin replied
“Can you beat it?”
Mrs. Burgin was in her
element. “There’s hardly a bit
of it, Alice, that hasn’t a
history.”
“Well, what do you know
about that!” said Mrs. Minto.
“True, though, Alice. AS I’ve
often said, how do people think
they can get away with it —in a
place like Laidlaw?”
“It would make you wonder
all right, Edie.” _
“You see, Alice, when Fred
and I built this place we didn’t
have so much. Fred really wasn t
so keen on it at the time. He
said we couldn’t afford it —we
were having a bit of a struggle
paying-off our home in Laidlaw
then. I said to Fred ‘We can
afford it.’ And we did need a
holiday-place. And Fred said
‘Oh, well, we’ll go ahead; I
suppose you know what s best.
Fred’s wonderful, really. But
he said ‘What are you going to
put in it?’ ‘ln what?’ I said.
In the cottage,’ he said. ‘That’s


easy,’ I said. ‘We won’t buy
new stuff at all.’ ‘How?’ said
Fred. ‘You’ll see,’ I said.
“That’s how it started, in a
way. I started going to the sales,
picking up this and picking up
that. Jolly interesting it was, I
can tell you. Look at that chest-
of-drawers! ”
They were in the main bed-
room. A, massive and solid chest-
of-drawers in bright-red cedar
stood against the wall. Plain in
its solidity, but rich, too. Of
exquisite workmanship. There
were big drawers at the bottom
with two well-turned wooden
knobs to each. There were
smaller drawers, halves and
quarters, near the top with
smaller wooden knobs, one to
each. Every drawer
slid out and pushed
back as though on
roller-bearings, with
never a rattle or
squeak or jamming.
It was a lovely piece
of work, and it stood
on thick round legs
nine inches or a foot
high. A lovely piece
of work that simply
is not made these days; the
workmanship was a thing of the
past, to say nothing of the
materials . . .
“Now that —out of fashion
now, of course,” said Mrs.
Burgin ; “but could you get an
article like it made nowadays?
You can’t, of course. Capacious
and useful.” She pulled out a
drawer or two, some half-full of
clothing, others empty. “On
oiled wheels, see!”
“It is a beauty, Edie. But it
must have cost”
“It didn’t. That’s the funny
part of it. Do you know where
I got it?”
Mrs. Minto might have known,
but at any rate she said she
didn’t.
“At that old place of the
Turners’. Old Selwyn Turner
himself bought that very chest-
of-drawers himself, or had it
made, which is the same thing.”
“Well, what do you know
about that! Old Selwyn
Turner! ”
V/TRS. BURGIN laughed
IVX p re ttily. “Yes, old Selwyn
was a bit of a goer, as they say.
Quite a bit by all accounts. That
little old Miss Nalty—remember
her? Died a couple of years ago.
She was in service to the Turners
—the old people—from the year
dot. She had some wonderful
stories. And she saw that chest-
of-drawers come into the house.
And do you know why?”
“What?”
“A peace-offering. That’s
what.”
“What for on earth?”
“The usual, Alice. You
know.”
“You don’t say!”
“This old Selwyn was no
end of a goer. Stacks of
money, too. There was a busi-
ness trip to Brisbane, and Mrs.
Turner got to know about the
sort of business. There was a
bust-up over it. No divorce or
anything like that—it wasn’t the
fashion then, but things were
rather mixed in the home after
that. Miss Nalty was as good as
a play when she told you of it.
Well, old Selwyn got a bedroom
suite, as we call it now, for the
poor wife . . .
“Mrs. Turner watched the
beautiful things come into the
house with her arms folded and
her head very high. Old Selwyn
—he wasn’t so old then, of course
—was rubbing his hands and
saying ‘Where would you like it,
dear?’ Tn there!’ said Mrs.
Turner, nodding at the lumber-
room. And that’s where it went,
and that’s where it stayed. She
never used any of it.”
“And how did you?”
“Oh, that’s another story.
Young Selwyn—he was very
much like the old man. He kept
the old place going. And there
was a proper bust-up, this time.
She got a divorce —and alimony
and whatnot. Broke him really.
I went to the sale. That old
suite was in a sort of spare-room
—it was too old-fashioned for
the young Selwyns. Dusty ; and
you’d hardly give it a thought.
I got it for a mere song—chest-
of-drawers, bed—that’s it there,
see! —dressing-table, commode,
everything.”
“Well, what do you know!”
“That’s what I said.”
“Young Selwyn didn't
he?”
“No one knows, really. The
story is that he’s in Sydney some-
where. Just a hobo, they reckon.
I don’t know, really. But fancy
him thinking he could get’ away
with it like that! Fred and I
got to work and cleaned up and
polished the stuff—and look at it
now! ”
TN the boys’-room was a lough-
-*• boy in Pacific maple—quite
modern.
“That! The
Campbell sale. She
made a proper mess
of it that time—what
was the fellow’s
name? I know,
Frith, that’s it . . .
teller in the bank
. , . poor Archie
couldn’t stand it
—home broken up
and everything . . .
[ went to the sale —they just gave
the things away. Gifts. She
must have been a queer woman
... I fancied the loughboy. And
the beds! Twin beds! Her idea,
I believe. Twin beds always
strike me as funny—what do you
think?
“Those easy-chairs, now, on
the veranda ; the old red plush—
the Spencers, you know. Never
such a happy couple . . . every-
one thought. Till the big bust-
up. And what’s more I knew
it was coming . . . He’s living
with that woman now in Sydney.
If they haven’t had a bust-up,
too . . . The other chair, the
one you were sitting in, the
leather one, got that at Pauling’s
second-hand shop. It came from
Rogers’—everything sold when
the old man died, and the money
divided under the will. That
chair wasn’t so cheap —trust
Pauling for that, and 1 was a
fool to go near him really.
Still”
“I think you’re a marvel,
Edie”
“Well, it’s one way. This
carpet now ; good as new. Look
at the pattern! You know what
you’d pay for that these days
That came from Springthorpe’s.
You’ve heard of them. Before
your time in Laidlaw, but he
was caught in the big flood —nice
new car and all. Parked at the
far end of Hickson Drive. Why
they didn’t get out of it before
the floodwater got round them I
don’t know. When they rescued
him—police and volunteers in a
boat and all that —there he was
and that little hussy, typist at
the Co-operative, with him!
“And then it all came out; and
wasn’t there a bust-up over it!
I do believe all Laidlaw took
sides over it . It’s a lovely
carpet . . . Mrs. Springthorpe
went back to her people on the
South Coast . . . It’s funny how
things do turn out, and how
people think they can get away
with it. I always say, after the
bust-up comes the sale. Not
always, of course. But nearly
always. That Pauling, I reckon,
makes a fortune .out of it. I
always bless him at the sales.
But it’s only lately that he set-up.
I got most of my things before
he started.”
Mrs. Minto was keenly
interested in the infidelities of
Laidlaw, and the huge surplus
of things unwanted and unused
appealed to her covetousness.
“My,” she said, “but you’re
wonderful, Edie! And you and
Fred are fortunate” —a quick-
meaning glance at some of the
more guilty articles, and a little
gesture of the shoulders, were
sufficient indication of the nature
of the good fortune.
A GENEROUS loan of
selected necessaries was
arranged to the accompaniment
of apologies: “Too good of you,
Edie ... I feel like a real
cadge . • • Are you sure you
won’t be wanting them your-
self?” To all of which Mrs.
Burgin replied —“Not at all.
Not at all, Alice.”
Dick of the five children, with
two of the oldest of these, and
the two Burgin boys, carried
over to the Minto cottage several
stretchers and beds, certain
mounds of mattresses and sheets
and blankets and bolsters and
pillows, along with some kitchen
requirements (some marked by
unfaithfulness in affairs marital).
Mrs. Dick didn’t put in an
appearance, but Mrs. Minto's
mother stalked over. Mrs.
Minto’s mother had a way of
screwing her mouth round, like
a horse with some black oats
under his tongue. The action was
no indication of difficulty in
speaking, but rather as con-
demnation of anyone she hap-
pened to be talking to or think-
ing of at the time.
She was a widow, which was
a hardship, and her married life
had been a hardship. She had
nagged her husband in his life,
and when he died she nagged
his memory. She didn’t thank
Mrs. Burgin for the plentiful
loan. She sniffed loudly as she
saw it going across to the Minto
house and tried to work loose
a few more oats.
Dick in an aside —which was
not lost on his mother —told
Mrs. Burgin that “The old girl’s
a bit of a hard-case, you know.”
Mrs. Burgin thought it dis-
creet to ignore this commenda-
tion of Mrs. Sticken.
“That man of yours—l guess
he’ll be annoyed.”
“Indeed no; why, Mrs.
Sticken?”
“Lending all this to a fellow
like Dick here.”
“He certainly won’t, Mrs.
Sticken.”
“The more fool him, then.”
Mrs. Burgin tried to laugh it
off. And Dick chuckled appre-
ciatively at this one more illus-
tration of the hard-case the old
girl was.
“Ugh! You have great faith
in him.”
“Certainly. I am justified
surely.” •
“When you are as old as I
am”
“I’ll still have it.”
Mrs. Sticken laughed. It was
a horrible laugh, mirthless,
something between a cackle and
a neigh. And on this cheerful
note she followed the last olj the
furnishings to her daughter’s
cottage. But something of a
malign atmosphere seemed to
linger after her. And in it, or
with it, the glow of satisfied
charity seemed to vanish.
SO went Thursday and Friday.
Came Saturday. Fred would
be down in the afternoon. The
boys were expecting some fish-
ing-lines and other material. The
boys came in several hours after
an early lunch.
“Dad ought to be here now,”
said the elder, Wally, a lad of
fifteen or so. A good lad, though
Mrs. Burgin did say so. And
that went for Stephen, too ;
about thirteen he was.
“Not yet, surely,” said Mrs.
Burgin, who was preparing
scones for afternoon-tea. “Not
yet. What time is it?”
“Gee! It’s nearly three,
Mum.”
“And that clock’s fast, you
know.”
(It might be interpolated here
that the previous owner of the
clock also was “fast.” Very fast,
in fact.)
“Even so, Mum, he ought to
be here. Doesn’t take all that
time to get here from Laidlaw.”
“Well, he can’t be long now.”
“We’re waiting for that thick
line —we’re trying for a groper
round the Point this afternoon.”
“Have patience, son,” said
Mrs. Burgin soothingly. She was
feeling quite contented herself.
And, like many women, she
called her eldest “son.” It was
a warmly-possessive form of
address.
“Why, the bus will be here
soon—-three-thirty it gets here,
and you know how slow it is.”
“But he’s not coming on the
bus.”
“Aw, I mean he ought to be
able to beat the bus. Surely.”
“Of course, son. And he’ll be
here any minute now.” She slid
a tray of scones into the oven
and pulled another tray of the
finished article out. They were
perfect scones.
“Gee, mum, but they look
good.”
“You can have some, son. Get
the butter from the ice-chest,
Stephen.”
She broke some scones and
put good thick slices of butter
into the splits, where the butter
soon melted into the soft almost
feathery insides of the scone.
“They’re good, all right,” said
the boys together. Rooral was
a great sharpener of appetites.
“You know,” said Wally.
“Dad might be coming on the
bus after all.”
“Why on earth?”
“You don’t know —he may
have some trouble with the car.”
“Likely! ”
“Well, he would be here now
ff he hadn’t. Anyway, I’m going
down to see —bus is pretty well
due now. Coming, Steve?”
A SMALL crowd was gathered
at the store. Bus-arrival was
always an event in Rooral.
“Here she comes and
’struth! Jack’s got some load
on today!”
The bus was seen on the brow
of the little hill that sloped down
to the peninsula that was Rooral.
A long, low bus of dirty-yellow
appearance, old and battered,
with a bonnet that threatened to
rattle itself off at the next rut.
On the roof was a low railing to
hold in luggage and an assort-
ment of boxes of stuff, and bags
of bread, and vegetables, and
Lord knows what for the store.
Among these, between these and
on top of all these were many
passengers who could get no
foothold inside. That accounted
quite often for the queer shape
of bread in Rooral.
The bus swayed from rut to
rut down the slope, into the little
hollow and up the slight incline
to the store. There followed all
the bustle and excitement and
confusion of disembarking and
unloading. Jack, one of those
happy, ageless fellows with
brick-red faces that you so often
see on country buses and ser-
vice-cars, was at the moment
silently annoyed. There had
been some argument on the way
down two fishermen, very
drunk, had picked on and
snarled at a Rooral weekender
for not giving up his seat to a
middle-aged stout lady. Week-
ender was nursing a sick child ;
a circumstance that didn’t ap-
pease the wrathful chivalry of
the fishermen. The argument
had gone on the whole thirty-
nine (or thirty-eight) miles of
the journey. Jack wished the
lot of them to blazes.
Wally and Stephen scanned
•the faces, aloft and inside. Dad
wasn’t there. Well, they didn’t
altogether expect he would be.
“Hullo —there’s Mr. Minto!”
There was Mr. Minto, all
right. Bob Minto, the husband
of Alice, the son-in-law of Mrs.
Sticken, the brother-
in-law of the feckless
Dick. Mr. Minto
carried with him the
air of Farran and
Smith’s office and the
dry atmosphere of
accountancy ; he was
dapper in a down-
at-heel sort of way.
“Yes, yes, boys,
that is no, no. Your
father is not on the bus. Assur-
edly he is not on the bus. He
did not get on the bus.”
“We thought he’d be along
hours ago, Mr. Minto.”
“Sure, sure! That’s right.
You would. Hours ago you
say. I should think so, too.
Indeed, yes, hours ago. I
should think so.”
“Wonder what’s keeping him.”
“You well might wonder, too.
I wonder, too. What is keeping
him, boys?” It was Mr. Minto’s
mannerism to italicise heavily
every third word or so. Mr.
Minto made it sound like the
accenting of certain numbers in
long tots of figures: “And two
and five and twenty-three make
thirty-six.”
“You didn’t see him at all?”
asked Wally.
“Well, now, and now that you
mention it, boys, I did see him.
Yes, I saw your father.”
“Did he say?”
“Say what, boys. That is the
point, boys.”
“About coming down, I
mean.”
“He said, boys, he’d be see-
ing me later. That’s what he
said, boys.”
“When —when was that?”
“When? When was what ?”
“When he said that.’’
“Oh! I couldn’t be sure. Not
exactly. I had to hurry to catch
the bus. That was after we
closed at Farran and Smith's.
Your father, boys, was getting
into his car at —or near —
Exchange Corner. I said ‘Hullo,
Fred.’ And he said ‘Hullo, Bob.’
That’s what / said, boys, and
that’s what he said. Now, boys,
I will confess that I did think
I might get a lift down with
him. You see, boys, I hadn’t
really intended coming down at
all, and they are not altogether
expecting me up there. Not
really. So I said to your father,
boys, I said ‘Going down?’ And
he said ‘Not till later, Bob.’
Then he said ‘Not till a lot later,
Bob.’ So I said ‘ln that case,
Fred, I’ll catch the bus.’ And he
said ‘lt might be better.’ ”
“Did you see where he went
to, Mr. Minto?”
“Now, that’s funny, boys! I
didn’t see where he went. He
drove down the River-lane, and
so I couldn’t see where he went.”
THE boys went back and told
their mother. Mrs. Burgin
said “That’s funny!” and gave
the boys more scones. “Oh, but
he’ll be along later. Some busi-
ness he had to do.”
The tide was turning, and the
boys went off to the Entrance
for whiting and flathead. At
last the lights lengthened, and
melted into greying sea, and the
black headland beyond the
Entrance, and the fading mirror
of the lagoon. The gulls ceased
their wheeling and the air
thrilled to the high-noted insist-
ence of mosquitoes. In the
warm, still gloom the boys went
home with their catch.
Still no Dad.
Again Mrs. Burgin said
“That’s funny! He really
should be here now.”
“I wonder what’s wrong,”
said Stephen.
“Nothing’s wrong.” Mrs.
Burgin said it almost snappily.
The boys cleaned their fish
and Mrs. Burgin got tea ready.
She put something in the stove
to keep warm for her husband.
They finished tea —and still no
Dad. Mrs. Burgin didn’t say,
now, that it was funny. She
was uneasy. Fred might have
had an accident. He could have
sent word by Bob if he were
going to be as late as this. She
was doing the italicising men-
tally, but with more meaning
than Mr. Minto.
A big summer moon came up
and peered very solemnly over
the headland and
caught the lazy roll-
ers of the beach with
its bright eye and
silvered over the still
lake. No Fred!
Something must have
happened. She went
out to the road at
the back —the front
of the cottage looked
to the dune the
sea. Bright headlights were
coming down the little hill and
approaching the store. That
would be Fred. At last!
But the car went by along the
grassy road of the peninsula. It
wasn’t Fred, and nothing like
their car.
She met Mrs. Minto and her
mother. They apparently were
on their way over. Mrs. Sticken
was stalking triumphantly. She
was in excellent fettle, some-
how like a bird of ill-omen that
has had some really first-rate bit
of ill-luck to its credit. Mrs.
Burgin resolved not to let this
terrible woman see her uneasi-
ness.
“What a lovely night it is!”
she said with enthusiasm.
Mrs. Sticken wasn’t to be
fobbed off like that. “So you’re
(Continued on page 24)


In Defence of James Tucker
The Authorship of
"RALPH RASHLEIGH"
By COLIN RODERICK
“I do not know whether a jury would convict James
Tucker, but as a historical J.P. sitting in the lower court
I find that there is a prima facie case against him, and
commit him for trial on a charge of stealing and unlaw-
fully converting to his own use a work of literary merit,
to wit, a novel or part thereof, the property of Francis
Howard Greenway, his heirs and successors.” —M. H.
Ellis (B. 3/12/’52).
MR. M. H. ELLIS having
charged James Tucker
with misappropriation of
literary property, I
appear to defend him and to
prove beyond question that he
was the “onlie begetter” of
Ralph Rashleigh. Mr. Ellis has
failed to appreciate the force and
conclusiveness of the evidence in
favor of James Tucker’s author-
ship printed in my book.
I
Greenway, who was never one
to hide his light beneath a
bushel, came, bn account of
“The Spectre’s” observations,
very early into the orbit of my
investigations. And may I here
inquire why Mr. Ellis has used
that part of my Introduction to
the limited edition of Ralph
Rashleigh printed on page xv
and has not collated it with that
part printed on pages xl to xlii
inclusive? I do not find one tittle
of evidence to support the
theory that Greenway was the
author of this book or to suggest
that he ever went in for creative
writing.
The Rashleigh manuscript, as
far as page 94 (96 if you include
the title-page), was written on
.Government paper watermarked
1840; and the remaining 205
pages (not 105, as both “The
Spectre” and Mr. Ellis thought)
were on the identical issue of
paper used by the Police
Magistrate at Port Macquarie in
official correspondence with the
Colonial Secretary in 1846.
Tucker began writing the book
at Port Macquarie on December
31, 1845. Greenway was buried
in 1827.
Can anyone suspect that any
literary work he might have pro-
duced in 1835-37 could have been
stolen without a hue and cry? Can
it be conceived, let alone proved,
that Greenway could ever have
been engaged on such a lengthy
and startlingly unusual piece of
work as Ralph Rashleigh with-
out the full knowledge of his
friends or family? Mr. Ellis has
not adduced the minutest piece
of evidence that Greenway at
any time either undertook such
a work or left one sheet of paper
that might be said to belong to
Ralph Rashleigh.
On the contrary, we have
complete, lengthy, dovetailed
and documented (and not merely
circumstantial) evidence that
James Tucker, alias Rosenberg,
did produce and bequeath to his
“pal” this memorial to his long
association with the felonry of
New South Wales.
If Mr. Ellis’s contentions were
to be believed, the following
sequence of events would have
to be proved to the hilt:
1. Tucker would have had to find
access by some mysterious means to
Greenway’s private papers. This he
would have had to do during the
period of Greenway’s residence in
Sydney or Maitland (1835-37), while
he (Tucker) was confined to the
police district of Windsor on a ticket-
of-leave.
2. Tucker would have had to hazard
the journey thither from Windsor and
spirit a bulky manuscript away from
Greenway’s dwelling, though with
what intent does not appear. And,
remember, a constable occupied
Greenway’s Sydney house with him
in 1836, and two friends after that.
3. Tucker would then have been
obliged to conceal that mythical
manuscript from 1838 to 1845. During
this period he was to serve a sentence
at the treadmill in the House of Cor-
rection, another in the stockade at
Parramatta and a third in Hyde Park
Barracks. He was then to run through
a second ticket-of-leave (1840-44) and
be sent as a prisoner to Port Mac-
quarie.
Is it humanly possible that the
“perennial delinquent” could
have kept such a manuscript
among his petty effects through
these vicissitudes? What motive
would he have for such an
action? What could he have
hoped to gain from it?
Even if by the most elastic
stretch of imagination anyone
might suppose that to be
possible, how would he account
for the undisputed fact that
Ralph Rashleigh is the third of
Tucker’s works in order of com-
position?
How, furthermore, would he
account for the fact that most
of Part the Third of Ralph
Rashleigh covers some thirteen
years which end in 1844? The
first book Tucker wrote was the
witty comedy Jemmy Green in
Australia, composed in 1845 for
the amateur Thespians of Port
Macquarie. Let us dwell a
moment to inspect this “comedy
in three acts.” Both extant
copies of it are written on Gov-
ernment paper watermarked
1840. I quote from the scene in
which Jemmy Green is hauled by
Harry Holdfast, “bush constable
and croppy catcher,” before
Captain Horty Scornsnob, J.P.
Holdfast peruses the list of run-
aways and says “ . . . Aye, here
he is, your Washup . . . The
very man.”
Scornsnob (takes list): Um
... Ah ... Oh ... Ay .. .
This is the very man . . . Now,
Sir, we’ve got you . . . Your
name, Sir, is George Frederick
Aubrey Augustus de Courcy
Sharp well, alias the Reverend
Simon Snuffleton; and you ab-
sconded from the Swells’ Retreat,
Port Macquarie, three months
ago ... So own it at once and
save trouble.
Could humorless Greenway
have risen from the grave,
assumed the habit of James
Tucker, and written that ?
Had Tucker the divine gift of
foreknowledge to know that
awaiting him at Port Macquarie
would be the opportunity to try
his “ ’prentice hand” before
sounding forth in Ralph
Rashleigh the whole gamut of
his colonial experiences and those
of older lags he knew?
The greater portion of Part the
Third of his story is concerned
with aboriginal customs centring
in the Port Macquarie district
(see Professor A. P, Elkin’s foot-
notes, pp. 278, 289, 292, limited
edition of Ralph Rashleigh ).
Where is the veriest shred of
evidence that Greenway knew of
them or had any interest in
them?
Another convincing point in
Tucker’s claim to authorship
rests in the character of the man
who preserved these four of his
manuscripts (see p. xxxvii,
Introduction).
II
Now to turn to the manuscript
of Ralph Rashleigh and to the
threatening letter for writing
which Tucker was transported.
This letter is not the only
authenticated document written
by Tucker. The composition of
his two plays preceded that of
Ralph Rashleigh. I shall show
later that Ralph Rashleigh was
not his last production.
In preparing the manuscript of
a literary work for publication,
an editor must subject it to con-
ventional treatment before allow-
ing it to be printed. On the other
hand, such a small but bio-
graphically significant document
as Tucker’s letter is quoted
verbatim. Lack of attention to
punctuation does not make it an
“unpunctuated jumble,” except
to him who is not sensitive
enough to recognise its value as
a key to its writer’s mental state
at the time.
Here is Tucker’s letter, edited
as was the text of Ralph
Rashleigh (see Section IX, Intro-
duction, limited edition):
Sir,
You perhaps did not expect to
hear from me so suddenly. But when
you turned me away from Layton-
stone for a mere trifle (that too at a
time when by the late failures many
score of clerks were out of employ)
you forgot that I had you in my
power thro’ your transactions with
me five nights following (I have the
dates and circumstances on paper
written at the time) and that from
your conduct to me before I went to
live with you, you could expect no
mercy from me. Did you not ?
However, let it pass.
In a few words, I have taken advice
upon the subject and know that if
you are obstinate, it is in my power
to bring down ruin on your head and
infamy on your name.
However, I will be merciful. Allow
me to return to L. in the same
manner as before, I will never men-
tion it again; as if I did, I should
lose everything and gain nothing. But
it is impossible for me to get any
situation in town at present.
It is not true Mrs. T. advertised
as you said. She is in great distress;
and she is my mother. Therefore I
would wish to afford her a little relict
if possible. So send me five pounds
to my address, which, with the other
you lent me, I will give 1.0. U. for,
and pay when I get a place. If 1
do not hear from you by Saturday
morning, you will hear of it (enclos-
ing five pounds).
Now consider! Ruin and beggary
on one side, and wealth and comfort
on the other. Remember that if you
are obstinate it will cost you all. Do
as I say, it will cost you nothing.
I await your answer before I pro-
ceed. As yet I have given Mr. Norris
no names. On Saturday night (if you
are silent) I will go too far to retract.
Yours obediently,
James Tucker, Junr.
Address to me, Mr. Rosenberg, the
Bell, Exeter Street, Strand.
The text of the letter as given
in my book was taken from
Tucker’s indictment.
There are practically no pages
at all of the original manuscript of
RALPH RASHLEIGH which do
not bear corrections that are
obvious afterthoughts on the
author’s part. I need only count
up a few: page 1 of Part the
Second has 23 corrections, page 1
of Part the Third has 15, page 2
has five, page 3 has seven, page 4
has 10, page 5 has five, page 46
has nine, page 47 has 10, and so
on. Spelling is different in
significant words from Greenway’s.
The manuscript is badly punctu-
ated and capitalised. Photographs
of the pages would bear out what
I say. The one photographed in
my book is the cleanest page in the
manuscript. A copyist would have
produced a clean manuscript free
of corrections and emendations.
Not only is it plain that the
manuscript is not the work of a
copyist, but it is also clear that
it is of a piece with the threaten-
ing letter as printed in my book.
Moreover, the cadence of
sentence, the balance of phrase
and rhythm, the interplay of
vowel weight, assonance and
alliteration, the subconscious
nuances of light and shade that
make the sinewy style of Tucker’s
letter and of Ralph Rashleigh
distinctive also indicate that
Ralph Rashleigh could not have
been written by the man who
wrote the turgid, bombastic and
abstract rhetoric we find in
Greenway’s letters to Governor
Macquarie. There was a vein
of poetry in. Tucker, manifest
not only in the undisputed
Grahames ’ Vengeance (written
in blank verse, after Jemmy
Green, on the 1840 Government
watermarked paper), but in
many of the passages that appear
as prose in Ralph Rashleigh.
But the composition of the
manuscript, persuasive in
Tucker’s favor as it must be to
judges of prose style, is only less
eloquent for the Port Macquarie
man than its architecture. Note
well the structure of the manu-
script: It is in three Parts, each
exactly 100 pages long.
Could Tucker have foreseen,
in 1837, that in 1845-46 he would
be called upon to write a regu-
lation three-decker? Is it reason-
able to surmise that the mythical
manuscript he stands accused of
having borne about his person
during eight years of varied toil,
in jail and out of it, now drunk,
now sober, penniless most of the
time—is it reasonable to surmise
that such a manuscript would by
some miraculous coincidence be
just the right length, breadth and
thickness to meet the specifica-
tions Tucker planned for Ralph
Rashleigh in December, 1845?
Is it likely that he would dare
“convey” a manuscript of such
size that was another’s property?
What answer would he make
when questioned about it on
being taken into custody? Can
anyone persuade himself that
when Tucker went under escort
in December, 1844, to Port
Macquarie he would be permitted
to take the manuscript of a novel
with hip? Why would he wish
to burden himself with such a
useless encumbrance?
Anyone who wishes to pro-
nounce upon the authorship of
Ralph Rashleigh must first
examine not only the manuscript
of that work, but also those of
the other works by the same
author which preceded Ralph
Rashleigh.
HI
Mr. Ellis’s leading allegation
in Greenway’s favor runs;
Not only was Tucker’s hand-
writing that of an amanuensis
who had made copies of certain
of Greenway’s papers, but he had
adopted Greenway’s own peculiar
style of setting out lists of works.
Tucker made these copies while
he was employed in the Govern-
ment Architect’s Department,
when Greenway’s son in 1838-39
was renewing his father’s claim
to the property in George-street.
For irrefutable evidence against
this I rely upon an expert witness,
Detective-Constable Paul Clark,
handwriting expert of the C. 1.8.,
who found with me that the docu-
ments referred to me by Mr. Ellis
were copied, not in 1838-39, but
prior to September 9, 1822, and
that they were copied, not by
Tucker, but by three other people,
not one of whom wrote in a hand
like Tucker’s. Tucker was not in
New South Wales when those
copies were made.
Mr. Clark found that Tucker’s
way of setting out his lists was in
no way like that adopted by
Greenway, and that there was no
evidence to show he had access to
Greenway’s plans. Tucker’s
draughtsmanship was nothing like
Greenway’s.
Mr. Ellis admits that Tucker
had experience with colonial
architect Mortimer William
Lewis, yet would deny him the
benefit of that experience in
writing his novel.
I ask Mr. Ellis to produce one
single sheet of paper indisputably
copied at any time by Tucker
from any document whatever
originally written by Greenway.
IV
Mr. Ellis appears not to have
noticed certain evidence concern-
ing the Emu Plains Theatre:
(a) “A Lover of Rational Pleasures”
(“Sydney Gazette,” July 21, 1825)
listed the notables present at the
convict Thespians’ performance of
July 18 of that year. They were:
“Sir John Jamison, K.G.; Thomas
Jamison, Esq.; John McHenry, Esq.,
J.P.; Mrs. McHenry; John Blaxland,
Esq.; his Lady and three daughters;
George Cox, Esq., and Lady; Henry
Cox, Esq.; the two Miss Hawkins;
Alex Kinghorne, Esq., Superintendent
of Emu Plains, with two of his
daughters and one son.”
The pieces played were “ Bombastis
Furioso and The Lying Valet.”
Chief Justice Forbes was not
present. It was not on this occasion
that he gave Ralph Rashleigh a pound
note (see p. 96, popular edition). Nor
was it at the performance of May
16, 1825, when “Barsissa or the Her-
mit Robber, the Mock Doctor or the
Dumb Lady and [note the spelling!
Bomhastes Furioso” were played.
When Rashleigh was present, the
pieces played were two, and two only:
Raymond and Agnes, and The Devil
to Pay. I am perfectly sure that
Raymond and Agnes and The Devil
to Pay were presented to Sir John,
Judge Forbes, and the “elite of Aus-
tralian aristocracy” on a subsequent
occasion. It is clear that in speaking
of [note the barrack-wit-inspired
spelling] Bumbastes Furioso (p. 93,
popular edition) Tucker is describing
quite a different performance from
any of the three I have mentioned.
The performance of Raymond and
Agnes and The Devil to Pay is de-
scribed in Ralph Rashleigh in such a
way as could only be done by one
who actually took part. Could Green-
way have been admitted in 1827-28
as a prisoner to Emu Plains in order
that he might be admitted by the
convict Thespians to the corps
dramatique in order that Mr. Ellis’s
theory might be sustained? And, on
top of that, Rashleigh took part in
still another performance, described
from a participant’s viewpoint in
Chapter XIV.
Chapters XII and XIV of Ralph
Rashleigh are palpably an artistic
treatment of its author’s own ex-
perience; and they link up naturally
with his authorship of the two plays,
Jemmy Green in Australia and The
Grahames’ Vengeance.
In contrast, if ever Greenway had
any interest in, or love for, drama
and the theatre, he managed so effec-
tually to conceal it as to keep it a
deep secret not only from his con-
temporaries but also from his
biographer, Mr. Ellis. And Greenway
was not the sort of man to keep his
talents hidden. This sudden, unac-
countable and isolated conjecture ot
fondness for the theatre on the part
of Greenway must puzzle Mr. Ellis
more than it does me.
{b) Mr. Ellis could himself easily
list half-a-dozen other men who
would have been ready and willing
to praise the virtues of the Knight
of Regentville (see note, p. 100, limited
edition).
(c) It was not Sir John who was
“singled out” by Tucker, but Judge
Forbes.
(d) In respect of Judge Forbes’s
peregrinations and pavilionage about
the Nepean, my note (p. 99, limited
edition) and my chronology (p. xvii,
Introduction) still stand. They sup-
port Tucker.
The simple fact is that the
events of the 1825 letter have no
connection whatever with those
of Ralph Rashleigh.
Mr. Ellis has not collated the
drought mentioned in Chapter
XI of Ralph Rashleigh with the
existence of prisoners at the
Emu Plains Agricultural Estab-
lishment. There was no Gov-
ernment farm at Emu Plains be-
fore 1820 ( see footnote 4, p. 76,
limited edition). It is, in fact,
the drought of 1827-28.
The Magnet, in which Ralph
Rashleigh is transported, is
identical with the Midas, in which
Tucker was transported (see p.
xxxv, Introduction, and pp. 62-
64, limited edition). The officers
of the Midas were the originals
of those of the Magnet of Ralph
Rashleigh, which is nothing like
the General Hewitt, in which
Greenway came in 1813-14 (see
Ellis, Greenway, 1949, pp. 17-
19).
In referring to the arrival of
{Continued on page 34)


Missing Next-of-kin
CHARLES ALFRED CLARKE, son of
JOSEPH TUTTON CLARKE and ANNE
CLARKE (born Baldwin), died at
Coramba, N.S.W., 7th April, 1948.
PURSUANT to Decretal Order of Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity
dated 15th February, 1952, and made
in Suit No. 1079 of 1951, entitled In
the Matter of the trusts of the Will of
CHARLES ALFRED CLARKE late of
Coramba, in the State of New South
Wales, Farmer, deceased, Between Per-
petual Trustee Company (Limited), Plain-
tiff and Charles Walter Clarke, Defend-
ant,” whereby the following inquiry was
directed, viz.: Who were the persons
entitled according to the Statutes for the
distribution of intestates’ estates to the
estate of Charles Alfred Clarke, deceased,
living at his death and whether any of
them are since dead, and if so who_ are
their legal personal representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under the
said inquiry are to send by post prepaid
to PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO.. Hunter
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., so as to reach it
on or before the 14th February, 1953,
their full Christian and surnames, ad-
dresses and descriptions, and full par-
ticulars of their claims, or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefits of the said Decretal Order unless
on application otherwise ordered. Claim-
ants are to attend personally or by
Solicitor before the Master in Equity at
Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
oi Wednesday, the 11th March, 1953, at
11 a.m., being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims. A claimant
not residing in' N.S.W. must send with
particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in N.S.W. to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
Dated 26th November, 1952.—A. C-
BOYLE & CO., 39 Martin Place, Sydney,
Solicitors for Plaintiff.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALLAN LESLIE DARCY late of
Bathurst and of 17 Clarance Street Syd-
ney—TAKE NOTICE that ERNEST
FREDERICK PATTEN has filed a Peti-
tion No. 2311 of 1951 praying for divorce
from VIVIAN JOYCE PATTEN on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
on the ground of adultery with ALLAN
LESLIE DARCY and he is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce ’ Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 20th February 1953 and
obtain- a. copy of the Petition without
charge from BRIAN MULLEN, Solicitor,
of 84 Pitt Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
ONE HERMIT LESS
by COLIN MANN
< ‘ ATTLE rattle rattle,
flap flap flap, rattle
I \ flap, rattle ...”
So it went on, and
set me wondering why Benny
ever bought a shaving-machine
that made a noise like a -chaff-
cutter when he sharpened it.
Coming out of my coma, I knew
no reveille had sounded. In this
camp an officer, not a bugler,
performed; and no one ever
born could sleep long after. The
stick of gelignite with detonator
and short-spitting fuse, landed
neatly between the tent-lines,
caused an awakening very rude.
As the echoes of the blast came
rolling back from the hills about
the flat they would meet a
secondary outward wave of
awe-ful oaths.
Gelignite was featured a lot
there. Charges of it were
exploded in the shallow creek as
troops crossed with full packs
and fixed bayonets; and it flung
dirty smoky water in their faces.
It helped, too, on the assault-
course, throwing up clods and
turfs realistically. Indeed, its
first job on assault-course-days
was to scare the snakes out of the
long, galvanised-iron tunnels, that
were part ,of the stunt, or so the
N.C.O.s told new drafts.
The camp was on a long, dead,
flat pocket in a range of Queens-
land hills. Fifteen miles north-
east through the ranges was a
township where every month or
so a long train would come,
panting after doing the twenty-
odd miles from Brisbane in half-
a-day. Even as the train halted,
loudspeakers high on posts above
the falling-in ground beyond the
station would talk.
“No one is to leave that train
until the order to do so is given.
On leaving the train you will
form platoons directed by your
N.C.O.s. You will then march
to camp for a meal. Your
twenty - eight - day - course will
commence as from parade-time
this afternoon. The parade-
hours in this camp are . . .
Anyone breaking camp during
the period of this course . . .
Detrain! ”
It was like a record. The
carriage-doors would swing out
and the long green strip beside
the train would take the
webbing-gear and kitbags thrown
down and then become a living
mass of khaki, which would
form sharp rectangular patches
thirty-three men long. A pause,
and then the whole would move
along to the road and on up the
hill. The patch beside the train
would be green again. The
officer in the broadcasting-box
would disconnect his microphone
and walk with it back to his jeep
and move off slowly at the end
of the marching column. The
traindriver and his mate would
sit on the ground by the engine,
chewing grass-straws, watching.
On up the hill the column
would go, a thousand feet they
said, until the road flattened out.
A quarter of a mile along, the
leading officer would halt for the
rest of the red-faced column to
catch up. On again ; and then
round a bend ; and one-thousand
feet below, they said, was the
main camp. Four square miles
of bare brown earth and tents.
There would be no more halts
until the very gates of the camp
where each platoon would stop
in turn and look where its officer
indicated, at a little cemetery on
the left of the road.
“While in this camp,” each
officer would say, “you will use
live ammunition and grenades
and work under active-service
conditions. Be careful. Platoon
—qu-ick mutch!”
BENNY and I had arrived
thus. We were unpacking
our gear in the allotted tent
when an order came round to
pack it again. We were to be
transferred to “S” Company,
which trained on its own fifteen
miles south-west.
There I woke, as I have said,
from my coma, and heard
Benny sharpening his razor.
This was somehow all wrong. I
sat up on my bunk and the
hammers rang out again in my
head. We had finished our train-
ing course, Benny and I. Three
weeks before. We had stood
watching the company sling their
rifles and march off over the flat
towards the hills and the main
camp behind them. We had
definitely finished our course.
Hadn’t the captain called the
two of us into his tent on that
last day? Hadn’t he offered us
cigarettes and spoken in a
friendly way of the manner in
which we had done our course
and that we had earned a rest,
Benny with his burnt chest and
me with a wrist in splints ? “Two
privates must stay here,” he had
said, “with an officer, a sergeant,
a corporal and a cook to look
after this campsite until the next
draft comes. Then you’ll come
back and probably catch up
your mates at the staging-camp.”
Benny and I had watched
them getting smaller in the
distance; and then ,as a tiny
brown thread moving up the side
of a hill where the flat petered
out. That afternoon we found
how much a isergeant and a
corporal could change in a short
while. We played poker with
them that night and on most of
the days that followed. We had
finished our course. Definitely.
Three yeeks before. Why, then,
was Benny shaving his face?
And why did I feel as I did with
a head like a pregnant pumpkin,
and eyes poking out as lobsters?
Beer.
I remembered it all, and sank
lower on the bunk.
ALL the land that this camp
was built on, and half-way
up the hill above it, was owned
by a local farmer. When the
company left it, and the area
became safe again for livestock,
he ran in his cows and they
roamed freely over the flat.
They, and the big grey bull
whose wives they were, enter-
tained us sometimes. Their
owner, the former, became our
benefactor.
He rolled down the slope from
the road in his Ford one day
and asked if any of us were
mechanics. The corporal walked
over with him, and they lifted
up the bonnet and looked at the
motor for a while.
“A bit sick,” agreed the
corporal. “Your petrol-lines are
all gummed-up. You listen.”
He did something with the engine
that made the farmer nod his
head.
“Tell you what,” said that man
of the land. “You tune her up
so she’s .going real good, and you
can use up all the petrol in the
tank and that tinful in the back.
Leave yourselves enough to
bring it back to my place,
though. All right?”
“Suits me,” said the corporal.
After a look at the pitted ground
that was once a pasture the
farmer turned away. Half-way
up the slope to the road he
stopped and yelled “Good
hunting!”
That same night the five of us
went drinking to a little pub the
sergeant had spotted ten miles
east along the road. Behind at
the camp we left two men. One
was the lieutenant-in-charge, a
returned-man like the sergeant.
As our drinking-party had crept
past to get to the Ford we had
parked up on the road, there
came from the lieutenant’s tent
an unexpected loud guffaw, but
he said nothing.
The other man who remained
to guard the camp against the
closing hills was a signaller about
whom we knew little. He wore
an aloofness that none of us
could own, or drink with. He
was attached, he told us, to
L.H.Q., and thus had no connec-
tion at all with infantry signals.
He stated this with a certain
unfathomable pride.
We had suspected that he was
religious, and at first could not
comprehend him. In time,
though, we did. He was one of
those rarities who can, after
their first week in the Army v still
remain painfully shy. He lived
with his radios in a little hut on
the slope above the main camp.
Every morning he would come
down to breakfast and eat it in
silence. At lunch and tea he was
just as talkative.
“I’m closed,” said the Bung
when we knocked at the pub,
and then with strange logic let
us in. It was the smallest bar
I had ever seen, though I hadn’t
seen many, and the counter was
just big enough for the five of
us. The proprietor was a sad-
looking Greek, and his beer was
warm. He should have been
running a restaurant in a town
somewhere, but perhaps he liked
the quiet where he was. He
kept two jugs full of beer, and
let us help ourselves, but he
made some kind of tally, because
every now and then he would
reach across and take something
from our heap of silver.
Even warm beer goes down
easily when you are young
enough to think the others slow
in their drinking. When I
opened my eyes I was sprawled
on my bunk back at camp, and
it was midday. I was still there
at nightfall when the sergeant,
the corporal, Benny and the
cook came to see me and said
they were going to drive down
to Murwillumbah to a dance.
Only thirty miles. They under-
stood when I could not come.
TVTOW it was morning again,
' and Benny was outside there
somewhere making unaccount-
able noises with his razor. We
were proud of our stubbles,
Benny and I, and they had grown
a lot since the end of the course.
I was sure now of where I was
and why my head felt like it did.
And I was thankful to high
heaven that the course was in-
deed three weeks behind and
that there would be no thunder-
ing reveille. Perhaps Benny had
gone mad.
“Rattle, rattle, rattle, flap...”
“What the hell are you
doing?” I yelled at the canvas.
“You awake, eh? I’m clean-
ing-up a bit.”
I flung up the flap and looked
at him, his face contorted as he
shaved it, guided by the mirror
on the tent-post.
“Cleaning-up a bit?” I re-
peated as I looked at him. No
one had worn anything but
shorts and boots since the camp
broke up. Yet here was Benny
in his finest shirt; socks and
with boots on that were shiny.
“No swearing,” he said
quietly. “Get up and come out
here. Put your pants on.”
I stared at him dumbly for
a while and then got up and
looked where he pointed at the
Ford. They had parked it down
on the flat. On the front seat,
sitting up asleep, was a woman.
“How did she get here?” I
asked Benny, affected by his
elegance and doing up some
buttons. “Why?”
“We were getting in the car
to come back from the dance,”
he told me. “She came up and
asked the sarge straight out if
he’d bring her over the border.
She had her suitcase and every-
thing in her hand. You see, they
can’t come over the border by
train without a permit.”
I told him I knew that, but
wanted to know why they had
brought her here. I could see a
new draft coming up past the
little cemetery back at the main
camp and hear the officer:
“.... And in those cages over
there are five men who were
minding our ‘S’ Company site.
They are going to be shot.”
“She’s the wife of an M.O. at
the main-camp hospital,” said
Benny. “Comes from Sydney.
She got to Murwillumbah by
train on Wednesday, and she’s
going on to town to stop at the
pub to be near her old man.
Catching the milk-truck in after
breakfast. The loot sent the
corp. up to chat the driver.”
“The loot knows about her,
does he?”
“Oh, yes,” said Benny as he
put down his razor.
“What did he say?”
“He said ‘Hell! ’ at first before
the sarge told him why we had
to bring her here. You see, we
meant her to stay the night at
the guest-house at Nunnimbah,
but when we got there it was
two o’clock and they wouldn’t
open up. We couldn’t leave her
at the side of the road, so the
sarge woke the loot up and
told him all about it.”
“I’ll bet he was pleased.”
“Blew up. He went out to
talk to the lady, though, and he
came back all smiles. He knows
her husband, the doctor, and he
reckoned we’d done the right
thing.”
“Why didn’t he give her a
tent? There’s only about two
hundred of ’em empty.”
“She didn’t seem to want to
get out of the car,” said Benny.
“The loot got her a big pile of
blankets out of the store and we
left her to it.”
T HAD finished dressing and
had just found my comb
when the sergeant came out of
the R.A.P. hut where he had set
up house for himself. He was
splendid. He had his ribbons up
and his boots shone and his belt
and gaiters were white. His
beard had gone and what hair
he had was brushed. He gave
us a nod that dissolved three
weeks of warm friendship like
mist in a wind. He was official
again.
The sergeant walked towards
the car and stopped about thirty
yards short of it, and we could
see him going red up the back
of his neck.
“Good morning,” he called in
a voice that no sergeant would
own. “Are you awake?” He
spun round on his heel and
glared at us, but snapped back
again to present a smile when
the woman called “Hullo,” and
sat up and said she was stiff.
- The sergeant told her that
breakfast was ready, and that
then the truck would be calling.
She thanked him for telling her,
and said she would get up. As
the sergeant passed us, walking
back the way he had come, we
looked solemn.
The corporal, Benny and I
used to get food from the cook
and take it down to one of the
empty mess-huts to eat. The
sergeant and lieutenant ate to-
gether in what had been the
officers’, mess. This was a log-
hut with a wide-open space in
its wall along the side that over-
looked the flat. We sat at our
table and watched the woman
walk up from the car, and saw
the sergeant meet her and take
her into the officers’ mess. The
lieutenant was already there.
When she disappeared from
view we went on with our break-
fast.
I saw the signaller leave his
hut and start to come down the
slope with his mess-tins glinting
as he walked slowly down the
path he always took. I held a
spoonful of porridge in front of
my mouth as I stared at him
coming close ; and then I knew
they hadn’t told him about the
woman. Any of us could have
yelled a warning to him, but we
sat gaping with voices lost. We
wondered if he would do what
he did every morning, and could
see no feasible reason why he
should not.
Someone in the hygiene
corps with the mind of an artist
had placed in the centre of that
stark flat, and thus set it off
properly, a funnel and a bit of
down-pipe leading into the
ground. It was of a pattern
found throughout all Army
camps in the bush ; but when
most hygiene-men would drape
their work with a tall screen of
hessian about it, the creator of
this one had not. The signaller
approached it, transferring his
dixies to his left hand. Sig-
naller, earthing himself.
Then, later, he walked across
to the cook-house door and
placed his dixies on the shelf for
the cook to fill. We watched him
as he looked about him, obliv-
ious. Suddenly he seemed to
stiffen, and he glanced around
the door leading into the officers’
mess, He grabbed at his dixies,
ran down towards our hut,
where he slumped, white, at the
end of the table.
6 don’t let it upset
you like that,” said the
corporal. “How were you to
know she was there? Anyway,
she’s married. Funny, though,
with us all dolled-up, for some-
one to come along and do a
thing like that. Hey! Can you
imagine what the sarge looked
like, watching it from in there?
And the loot!”
Any thoughts we had of
sparing the shy bloke fled with
that. Yet as we shook there
round the table we heard a
bubbling sound and found that
the signaller was chuckling ; and,
as he caught more of the infec-
tion, laughing with tears in his
eyes. It could have been the
first time he had laughed in his
life; and, though he tried to
speak, his heaving ribs prevented
it.
He lay low till the milk-truck
left; and then, instead of going
back up to his hut, he stayed and
talked for an hour, not once
about L.H.Q. We played cards
with him and that night we took
him down to the pub; and
when we eventually got him into
his bunk he was singing his head
off and wanting to swing in a
tree.
She was the making of him,
that woman who didn’t know
him—well, not to speak to.


waiting for your man, are you?”
said the old vulture. She said
“man” as though it were some-
thing you might catch in a trap.
“Yes, Mrs. Sticken, he should
be along any time now.”
“Wouldn’t it be funny if he’s
cleared out! With another
woman!”
“Oh, Mother!” said Mrs.
Minto in reproof of such ill-
timed humor.
Mrs. Burgin tried to laugh it
off. Anyway, she could afford
to laugh that off. Fred was so
safe.
Mrs. Sticken gave a snort-
like sound which, being trans-
lated, might have been “Well,
I’ve seen that sort of thing hap-
pen before.” Then she worked
her mouth round —black oats
again, apparently. She said
“Funny what people do do at
times. Makes you wonder how
they think they can get away
with it.”
Was that original on the part
of the old hex, or was it
conscious quotation? Mrs.
Burgin wasn’t sure; but she
didn’t like it. She invited the
pair in for a cup of tea. But
they had to go back, they said.
Perhaps Mrs. Sticken felt she
had spread enough happiness for
one night.
AND still no Fred. What
could have happened? And
what could one do? Inquiries?
What inquiries could one make?
And, in any case, he’d be along
any moment now. Any moment.
Three more sets of headlights
came down the little hill. But
no Fred. If there’d been an
accident she would hear soon
enough. Soon enough.
She told the boys to go to
bed—the guilty twin beds of the
Archie Campbells. The words
of that awful Sticken woman
kept ringing in her ears —her
own words, really: “How they
think they can get away with
it....”
She didn’t sleep. She didn’t
go to bed. She sat in a guilty
settee in the sitting-room. She
tried to read without success.
Occasional much-belated cars
purred past or chugged past on
the grass and sand of Rooral’s
single street. But none stopped.
No Fred. And—and—confound
that Sticken woman! Why
would she. keep coming to mind?
Refusing to be shut out.
No Fred. What was keeping
him? But she must not fret her-
self and fuss. She must be
laughing when he came. Fred!
He liked her laughing. And
sometimes, too, she laughed
when she didn’t feel so much
like laughing. She had been a
good wife to Fred. But Fred
was worth it. Fred!
She laughed now, and the
laugh ended in a sob. Steady,
now, steady! She mustn’t be
silly. He’d be along any minute
—and then they’d laugh to-
gether. ...
She went out to the road
again ; the sixth time —or was
it the seventh? Or eighth? The
moon was at its zenith, a perfect
serenity in its summer beauty.
Wise old moon, grave old moon,
that had looked down on all
the laughter and tears that had
ever been.
The moon sank towards the
little hill, and a chill mist,
strands and wisps of it, came
over the lake in the sad grey of
morning. Then the east flushed
rosily and the sun in its tardi-
ness shone over the headland.
Sun and moon in their endless
round, and all the eternity of
night...
She was near breaking-point
under a hundred nameless fears.
Never had Fred been unpredict-
able before. That Sticken
woman!
She gave the boys, their break-
fast. “No, son, he’s been de-
layed. Any moment now.” She
made unconvincing excuses.
She’d slip up on the bus. Ser-
vice at the cathedral —wouldn’t
like to miss that. New Year
time, you know. No, they could
stay—rather go on her own...
there was a bus back to fit in.
No, no, no, she’d go alone. Dad
would bring her back... or
they’d both come on the bus if
the car had broken down.
r F'HE house in Laidlaw was
-*■ locked. Silent and dead till
her steps echoed down the hall.
There was something ominous in
the empty house. And no car in
the garage! She went inside again
and read Fred’s recent history in
the cups and plates in the sink ;
the unmade double-bed in their
room. Some unwilled power
drew her to the wardrobe —his
best suit was gone.. .and the big
leather suit-case from the bottom
of the linen-press was gone...
and Fred was nowhere to be
seen. Fred was gone...
And yet he might be down at
Rooral even now. But he
couldn’t be at Rooral —she had
watched too closely from the
bus to have missed him on the
way. There was only one road
to Rooral.
Where? That was the ques-
tion. Where? “How they think
they can get away?” ' There
came the vision of that Sticken
woman horribly quoting.
She met Pauling; he was
passing the place really. Paul-
ing, the secondhand dealer,
suave and smug in a second-
hand way. Easily and insincerely
affable. His smile was a leer.
A positive leer. “You’re back
again, Mrs. Burgin? Thought
you would be staying over the
holidays.”
Of course he’d know they had
been at Rooral. Everyone knew
what everyone-else did in Laid-
law.
“Fred home, too, I guess?”
More of a leer.
What did the fellow know?
She answered noncommittally.
But he seemed to understand.
Perfectly.
Police! She was very con-
fused. Something had to be
done. If, there had been an
accident!
The sergeant took a serious
view of the matter, even while
he told her there was nothing to
worry about. Not a thing. The
hospital... yes, indeed... he’d
ring the hospital just in case.
And he’d make inquiries.. .dis-
creet inquiries. What did he
mean by discreet? No, no acci-
dents had been reported... but,
of course, you never knew, did
you? In the circumstances,
though, she had better get back
to Rooral. Easy enough to con-
tact her there. But nothing to
worry about...
She went back on the early-
aftemoon bus. Mrs. Sticken was
at the store —the terminus. She
was as radiant as a vulture
could be. And she knew! And
if she didn’t know she could
guess, which was really worse.
AT last it came out in dribs
and drabs and gulps; Fred
had vanished. No question of
it. With —well, what do you
think of that—with the new
nurse at the General. That
woman! Her of all women!
Yellow hair and big teeth and
a mouth like a shark. Not a
thing to commend her. And
pretty ancient, too, if you ask
me!
That’s how they described her
to Mrs. Burgin, thinking, no
doubt, to comfort her with this
malicious picture. But it was
no comfort—it hurt more than
ever.
Well, what do you know about
that! She must have had some-
thing, though—you never know
about women! Must have had
something for Fred Burgin to
fall for her like that. Fred’s
made a proper mess of, it now.
And his missus—tough on her,
all right. Forty-five—a pretty
dangerous age, if you ask me.
And there was more to it. A
banquet, really, for Laidlaw.
Worral and Co. was losing more
than a business head. There
was a small spot of embezzle-
ment, too —the amount varied,
according to taste, from a mere
thousand to a very hopeful ten-
thousand. It settled and har-
dened at length to five-thousand,
which was sufficiently spectacu-
lar.
There was a view, not properly
considered, that he wouldn’t be
game to show his face in Laid-
law again. But wisdom soon re-
plied. Won’t he? He’ll show
his face, all right, if they can
find him —they’ll bring him
back for his trial. Five-thousand
quid! You bet they’ll put him
through the court. Oh, they’ll
catch him, all right—they can’t
get away as easy as all that
these days!
Perhaps Mrs. Sticken bene-
fited more than anyone. It did
her more good than her holiday
with the Mintos. In a cryptic
and doubtful metaphor she said
“Her furniture’s coming home to
roost.” She prolonged her stay
till long after the family had
returned to Laidlaw. She
plagued and haunted Mrs.
Burgin and offered a gloating
sort of sympathy.
'THE delinquencies of Fred
pieced themselves together
in what was much of a general
pattern. He had faked the books
for a handsome rake-off. But
whether he did this with the
elopement in view, or whether
he started to do it after deciding
to elope, wasn’t discovered. The
planning for the getaway— her
planning, you bet—had been
simple and effective. She had,
gone to Port Grayson for the
New Year weekend, and the
real flight had started from
there.
Poor Mrs. Burgin—it was all
very terrible for her. The bot-
tom fell out of everything. And
what made the affair the more
tragic to her was the eyesore
appearance and general undesir-
ability of the nurse. “Really
and truly,” she said over and
over, “it wouldn’t have been half
so bad if she’d hhve been nice.
I do believe I could have put up
with it better if she had been
young and pretty.”
course they caught Fred.
Middle-aged, inexperienced,
untravelled men don’t find get-
ting away so easy. Fred was
taken in Adelaide, instead of
the more usual Sydney or Mel-
bourne. But they caught him
and brought him back. He
stood his trial and got a sen-
tence of years. It seemed to re-
vive Mrs. Burgin, that did. She
said she would “wait” for him,
which may or may not have
been true.
ANYWAY, she wasn’t going
to do her waiting in Laid-
law. Nearly everything was
sold-up-—Worral and Co. treated
her very decently, for they might
have made pretty heavy claims.
The “Laidlaw Times” adver-
tised The Sale. A really big
sale it was, furniture and house-
hold effects. All the historic
pieces from the Rooral week-
ender were brought up and sold
with the rest. It was a highly
successful sale.
The hateful Pauling was there,
of course, and bought plenti-
fully; but he didn’t get things
for nothing, not by a long chalk,
he didn’t.
Mrs. Burgin and the boys
went off to Sydney to live. If
she really intended “waiting,”
Sydney was easier to do it in
than Laidlaw. She was never
heard to say again “What always
beats me is how they think they
can get away with it.”
Perhaps it didn’t beat her any
more. 1
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Put Yourself in
His Place by Charles Reade. —5405.
Name of author and words of
poem beginning;
The spring is here, the sun is ris’,
I wonders where the flowers is.
—5404.
To buy any of the books published
by Edward L10yd.—5403.
To buy any of the books written
by Dulcie Deamer; also the Vidler
editions of the works of Erie Cox. —
5402.
To buy copy of Poems by Roderic
Quinn. —5400.
Words of verse “The Wandering
Butcher Transport” by “Jim One”
(Capt. Jack Hamilton). —5401.
Does Anybody Know?
Any information about Ernest
Govett, who was a sub-editor of the
Adelaide “Advertiser” in the late
1880’s. He left that newspaper in
April, 1890, and took over the pro-
prietorship of the “Silver Age,” an
early Broken Hill newspaper. He
apparently left that position some-
where about 1892-94.
Information Sought
Is the old law which prohibited
bathing on Sydney beaches during
daylight still in force ?
The Police Offences Act, 1901, sec-
tion 77, is as follows: “Whosoever
bathes in any part of Sydney Cove,
or in any waters exposed to view from
any wharf, street, public place or
dwellingihouse in or near the said
city or towns between the hours of
six o’clock in the morning and eight
in the evening shall be liable to a
penalty not exceeding one pound.”
The towns referred to are those to
which the Act applies, which means
every town in N.S.W. The Local
Government Act, 1919, however, pro-
vides that the above section shall not
apply to any place where an ordinance
under that Act for the regulation of
public bathing is ip force. Ordinance
52 of the Local Government
Ordinance applies to any public park,
sea-beach, public reserve, river or
lakeshore and the land and water
below high-water mark on the fore-
shores of the area at those places
wherein public bathing is permitted
by the (local municipal or shire)
council by law or custom, but does
not include any such reserve which
is controlled by trustees (other than
the council) appointed under the
Public Parks Act, 1912. The scope
for the application of section 77 is
therefore limited, but it is still in
force.
* * * ♦
A few particulars about Thomas
Richards, an early Tasmanian
journalist and editor?
Thomas Richards pioneered the
short story and essay in Australia.
He arrived at Hobart in 1832 as ship’s
surgeon on the Princess Royal. He
gave up medicine for journalism, and
ended his days on the staff of the
Hobart “Mercury.” He was some-
time associated with Sir Richard
Phillips, editor of the “Monthly
Magazine.” With, Henry Melville,
Richards conducted the “Hobart
Town Magazine,” the first distinc-
tively literary magazine in Australia.
His contributions comprised more
than half the contents, and he
probably wrote much of the “intelli-
gence” or news sections. Richards
was also a newspaper editor and one
of the earliest of our dramatic critics.
He contributed articles for the
“Colonial Times” from 1837 to 1848.
His literary work is dealt with in
chapter 111 of Pressmen and Gover-
nors by E. Morris Miller.
* * * *
(1) Results of the 1931-32 cricket
Tests ( S. Africa v. Australia), the last
time S. Africa toured Australia? (2)
How many centuries did Bradman
make in that series?
(1) Australia won all five Tests.
First Test, Australia 450, S. Africa
170, 117 (Aust, by innings and 163
runs); second, Aust. 469, S.A. 153,
i, 61 (Aust., by innings and 155 runs);
thud, Aust. 198, 554, S-A. 358, 225
(Aust., by 169 runs); fourth, Aust.
iP’ 9-, 73 . S.A. 308, 274 (Aust. by
W wickets); fifth, Aust. 153, S.A.
4 o by innings and 72 runs),
the S. African aggregate of 81 for
two innings in the last Test is the
lowest in all Test cricket. (2) 226
thrst Test), 112 (second), 167 (third),
299 not out (fourth).
• * * «
Origin of phrase “plain as a pike
staff ?
i Th e first version seems to have been
plain as a packstaff.” In John Hey-
wood’s long verse-allegory “The
Spider and the Flie” (1556) occurs
the following:—
The ant hath circumspection, ye have
none;
You packstaff plain, thr ant crafty and
close.
The packstaff was carried by pedlars
and used as support when they
opened their parks; in comparison
with official staffs, which were richly
ornamented, it was simple and com-
pletely unadorned. Hence its use as
a synonym for homeliness. “Plain
as a packsaddle” appears in 16th-
century letters, about which time
“plain as a pikestaff” also began to
be used. A “pikestaff” is a shaft of
a pike or heavy spear, or a walking-
stick, ending in a spike, such as are
used by mountaineers to prevent slip-
ping.
Brief Answers
T.H.: Richard Hengist Horne was
born at Edmonton, near London, on
January 1, 1803. He was originally
given the names of Richard Henry,
but changed his second name to
Hengist after meeting a Mr. Hengist
in Australia who was a good friend
to him....R.5.: Write Under-Sec-
retary, Department of Agriculture,
Farrer - place, Sydney S.P.F.:
“Lyre-Bird Writers” general editor
is Roland Robinson, 18 Manion-
avenue, Rose Bay (N.5.W.)... .L.A.:
Romany Rye is a sequel to Lavengro,
both by George Borrow (1803-81).
. ...M.G.D.: The Council of Social
Service, Endeavour House, Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney, publishes a
directory of social agencies
B.McC.; The International Court of
Justice held its inaugural meeting at
The Hague on April 18, 1946. The
first case to come before the court
was the Corfu Channel dispute be-
tween U.K. and Albania 0.J.L,:
The French overseas territories have
a total area of approximately 3,750,000
sq. miles, with an estimated popula-
tion (1947) of 63,000,000... .H.N.K.:
The planet Pluto was discovered
photographically at the Lowell Ob-
servatory in March, 1930... .M.M.:
Kali is the Hindu goddess of death
and destruction, and the wife of Siva.
She is represented as black, with four
arms and blood-stained face, breast
and palms....T.W.H.: The Nobel
Prize for Literature in 1952 was
awarded to Bertrand Russell for “his
versatile and important writings, in
which he has shown himself an
apostle of humanity and freedom of
thought” K.A.; The main parks
in or adjacent to Sydney metropolitan
area include National Park (34,392
acres), Kuring-gai Chase (38,263
acres), Kurnell (248 acres), Centennial
Park (474 acres) and Parramatta Park
(252 acres).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.W.E.: If you saw Death going
about meeting people it was your
duty to have him arrested for con-
sorting N.P.L.: Frank enough in
its adolescent way to get us into a
censorious adult jail JJ.; Maybe
there is a story in vacuum-cleaners,
but what you sent us was mainly the
vacuum.... M.H.: There is a market
for stories that merely imitate types
of story, but we try not to accept
them here J.S.W.; The facts
aren’t bad, but you don’t make them
seem credible... .J.Q.: Too late for
Christmas, and not deftly enough
handled for us A.E.H.; There is
the wow story that opens one’s eyes,
and the wow story that is only another
yawn; yours is with the majority.
G.R.W.: It’s an old routine —a
man comes into a bar and does some-
thing silly. Someone picks on him
for doing something silly. The man
goes out. Someone else explains that
the man was doing something silly
because his mate (or his wife or
child) is dead. The man who picked
on him feels squashed. Whereas it
is the exhibitionist who should be
ground into the dust.... T.E.: One
of your words says to another: “Even
if we do have a bit of fun, it doesn’t
mean anything”... .J.W.: Not bad,
but not quite D. 8.: Not our sort.
C.G.A.: Looks like it’s not all
there: i.e., page 3 ends in the middle
of a sentence —not that we want to
see any more... .J.P.: It’s a good
story led astray by bad characters.
M.H.W.: Nearly, but not quite.
K.D.C.L.: “Every author thinks
he wants to wander,” as the song
says; but it doesn’t pay E.M.E.:
Neither H. 8.: A bit of a mix-up.
K.J.M.: As a gay story it might
have passed; as a sad story it creaks
at the joints... .J.W.: Light....
T.P.M.: Thim stage-Oirish agin, an’
a 11.,.. .V.M.C.: “ Tain’t likely,” as
your hero observes J.N.: Tiddly-
Winks M.L.: None... .H.L.8.:
Afraid “The Fallen Woman” has
regained her feet since the war
J.M.: Scholarly slice of low-life....
J.W.: Thin M.G.T.: A fantasy
superimposed upon a superstition.
....L.W.; Tillivallx M.C.: Your
grim playfulness M.L.: Rather
rare for us T.8.T.: Everyone
thinks his first voyage is like none
other that has ever been made; it’s
like love, but gives less vicarious
satisfaction to readers 8.M.: Each
light tap of your social satire knocked
us sprawling M.L.: A little
didactic F.C.V.: Seen something
like the first before. The second —
“I’ve killed the bitch. She’ll play no
more of her games. Loved me!
Things like her did not love —but
she’ll play no more”—we find too
disturbing... .J.S.C.: She should
have got another job L.H.C.:
“The Last Chicken” got the axe
G.E.M.: He won the right to ring
the school-bell, and you let it fall
on his eager, upturned face, you old
sourpuss, you! ... You
don’t get the spirit... .C.W.A.; Never
praise women if you want your reader
to see them... J.A.: The idea wasn’t
bad, but you took it too seriously.
. Taradiddle.


Australian Historical Sketches
Mr. Balmain
Sends a Challenge
By M. H. ELLIS
IT was inevitable when
Governor Hunter came to
New South Wales that faction
should raise its head in the
country. The military formed
90 per cent, of the free popula-
tion, and had had, so far, most
of the loaves and fishes. The
civilian population, public ser-
vants all, had looked on with
envy, though they had not done
so badly in material things. And
they saw in Governor Hunter an
instrument sent by Providence.
He was old. He had all the
characteristics of the contempor-
ary admiral. He was irascible.
He looked askance at anything
military. He was also credu-
lous.
The military officers were
young, except for “old” Captain
Paterson, who was over 40. They
looked on anything naval with
the gravest suspicion. As for
the mischief-makers, and gentle-
men with axes to grind, they
were all ages and sizes, but
united in purpose. Within three
months after Hunter’s arrival
there was enough bad blood
loose around Botany Bay to fill
a thousand-gallon tank.
Summer came, with bushfires,
hailstorms and blazing heat as
1795 turned into 1796. In
January it became necessary to
reduce the soldiers’ ration and
replace the allowance of
wheaten-flour by maize.
This produced a strike in
short order. The soldiery de-
manded short-allowance money
if their bread was to be mon-
keyed with-—they were entitled
to it according to a promise by
Governor Phillip. And they
were not lads to be tampered
with, especially since discipline
had grown lax due to the lack
of barracks and they had become
bound to make “connections
with infamous characters
whatever attention might be
paid by their officers to prevent
it.”
It was in such an atmosphere
that the events which proved so
disastrous to several people’s
comfort developed.
On February 5, 1796, a
sentinel on duty near a mill
which was being built close to
where St. Phillip’s Church now
stands in Sydney discovered that
a certain John Baughan, the
master-carpenter, was in an
adjacent shed. The sentinel, who
had been a convict, had worked
during his servitude under
Baughan, against whom he had
developed a grudge. He now
felt that a chance had come to
revenge himself.
He propped his musket in his
sentry-box, strolled over to join
a comrade outside the shed in
which Baughan was working
and began, with soldierly elo-
quence, to deliver a far from
flattering appreciation of the
character of the carpenter.
Baughan was a man of “sul-
len and vindictive disposition,”
better left alone by those who
valued their peace of mind. He
made no comment on the tirade,
but merely tiptoed out behind
the unarmed sentinel, reached
the latter’s post unobserved and,
quietly picking up his deserted
firearm, stole silently with it to
the sergeant of the guard.
The soldier was confined and
punished for deserting his post
and parting with his musket. His
comrades of Captain Mac-
arthur’s company were incensed
at his fate —too much irritated,
in fact, either “to act with prud-
ence, or to consider the conduct
they determined to pursue.”
Next morning they repaired to
Baughan’s house (“a neat cot-
tage which he had built below
the hospital”) near the waterfront
west of Sydney Cove.
They closed on it silently from
all sides, then suddenly charged.
Resistance was useless.
Mr. Baughan was thrown
down on his face, and a soldier
standing over him with an axe
swore that if he offered to stir
he would chop his head from
his body. Mrs. Baughan
shrieked.
Gates, doors, windows were
torn out. The corner-posts of
the house were chopped down.
Drawers and chests were reduced
to matchwood. In short, every-
thing was “completely de-
molished.”
When the visitors had com-
pleted the ruin of the whole
property they went off cheering
“as if something meritorious had
been effected,” and marched in
a body across the parade-ground
before their commanding-
officer’s house.
It had all happened so sud-
denly that the authorities, civil
and military, were unable to take
any action. Indeed, there had
been so much confusion that
Baughan had only succeeded in
recognising four of the ring-
leaders of the terrible affair, all
of whom proved to be members
of the newly-inducted convict
drafts.
It was no wonder that the
Governor should deal with the
matter in his best quarter-deck
manner. He could not have de-
rived a grain of comfort even
from the knowledge that the
rioters had learned their pro-
cedure from the Government,
which itself had been chopping
down the dwellings of persons
caught selling illicit liquor.
A few terse words of reproof
on parade and some prompt and
salutary punishment might have
seemed to a sensible man the
proper measure with which to
deal with such a situation. But
now, for the first of many times
in his reign, Hunter’s weakness
and wordiness were made mani-
fest.
For days the air was full of
the Governor’s abuse and
threats. He publicly drew atten-
tion to the presence in the Corps
of the soldiers from the Savoy
prison in London and other bad
characters who have been “con-
sidered disgraceful to every
regiment in his Majesty’s ser-
vice.” He spoke of the soldiery
involved as men “often superior
in every species of infamy to
the most expert in wickedness”
among the convicts, whom, in
turn, he had characterised as “a
set of the worst, the most atro-
cious characters that ever dis-
graced human nature.. . .the
dregs and refuse of our native
country.”
He found the men so
deeply disgraced, he said, that
they did not even deserve the
privilege of being censured on
parade by himself in person. He
said that their conduct had been
tantamount to mutiny, called on
the common soldiers to “yield up
knowledge” of the identity of
those concerned, “to enable
those worthless characters being
brought to trial for conduct the
most violent and outrageous that
was ever heard of by any
British regiment whatever.”
This was the Corps whose
members he praised in unstinted
terms four years later.
The four ringleaders in the
affair recognised by Baughan
were captured and given promises
of everything that the gentle
methods of the settlement might
have in store for them. A
Criminal Court was constituted.
Orders, dispatches, commina-
tions, letters, overflowed with
the Governor’s indignation.
And then suddenly it was all
over —at least as far as the
soldiers were concerned ; for, as
usual, when the Corps was in
trouble. Captain Macarthur
appeared on the scene, acting in'
conjunction with the outraged
Mr. Baughan.
He approached his Excellency
with tactful, if not humble,
mien on behalf of the Corps to
express its contrition and that of
the actors in Mr. Baughan’s dis-
comfiture, adding an expression
of “its sincere concern for what
had occurred,” and including a
promise from the rank-and-file
that by their future conduct they
“would endeavor to wipe away
the odium which their recent in-
stance of disorder and want of
respect for the laws, peace and
order of the settlement had
brought upon them.”
Those involved agreed to in-
demnify Mr. Baughan for his
loss, and Mr. Baughan, who, no
doubt, had been wondering what
might happen to him in future
if some of his persecutors should
be hanged, joined his plea that
the erring warriors be forgiven.
Hunter withdrew the charges
against the arrested soldiers,
while declaring that he would
“maintain the tranquillity and
order of the settlement by every
means that the laws afforded.”
This should have been the end
of the matter. After all, it was
only a piece of the kind of horse-
play familiar to every military
station in that age.
There was, however, at least
one person in the colony who
was not prepared to allow the
matter to stay where it was.
This was Mr. Assistant-Sur-
geon Balmain, a gentleman, per-
haps, with a more sedulous re-
gard for the law than the rest,
he having just become a new-
fledged J.P. who had quarrelled
with Captain Macarthur.
When he heard that Baughan
had withdrawn his charges he
was thunderstruck. Seeking him
out, he unloaded upon his un-
fortunate head some of his
newly-acquired knowledge of the
strange ways of the law. He
“interrogated Baughan, and,
having found him from fear in-
clined to submit to his sufferings,
informed him that he was liable
to prosecution for compounding
a felony and that he [Balmain]
might be the first to forward
such a prosecution.”
Mr. Baughan, pale and trembl-
ing under the fresh fears which
the lecture induced in his breast,
hastened to take counsel with
military friends.
As a result, Mr. Balmain pre-
sently received a letter signed by
Captain Macarthur demanding,
on behalf of the officers of the
New South Wales Corps, to be
informed whether he had told
Baughan that in withdrawing the
charges he had compounded a
felony and insisted or advised
that he should continue the
prosecution ; also whether he had
threatened Baughan with legal
consequences if he failed to do
so.
To which Mr. Balmain re-
plied that he had “said as much
to Baughan,” and further, that,/
as the man’s wife appeared
apprehensive that the soldiers
would murder her husband, he
had told him that he had noth-
ing to fear on that score. He
added that if he “said more and
any person put him in mind of
it he would most readily acknow-
ledge that he had done so.”
He sent this answer to Cap-
tain Macarthur, receiving in
reply “a kind of note or written
message” in the name of the
officers of the Corps, who in-
formed him “that after a calm
and dispassionate consideration
of Mr. Balmain’s conduct, as
expressed in his letter to Cap-
tain Macarthur, they should be
wanting in justice to themselves
if they omitted to -express their
indignation at his shamefully
malevolent interference in the
affairs of the Corps.” They re-
minded him that, in a conversa-
tion with their own surgeon, he
was supposed to have said that
they were all damned, and they
assured him that “those pre-
dicted curses would probably
recoil on his own plotting and
guilty head.”
This was scarcely calculated to
salve Mr. Balmain’s feelings.
He fairly seethed with rage as
he tried to cut out Macarthur
from the sheltering herd in the
mess. He wrote to Captain
Paterson in command, trying to
poison him against Macarthur,
but was answered with stony
silence. He wrote to Macarthur
directly and called him “a base
rascal and an atrocious liar and
villain,” adding that Mr. Palmer,
the pious Commissary, who was
the bearer, would receive his
enemy’s answer.
_ But all that happened was that
the mess of the Corps roared
with laughter in Mr. Palmer’s
very face, trying to thrust on
him a message which he indig-
nantly refused to carry, stating
that they were united in looking
on Mr. Balmain as “ignorant of
the language of a gentleman
and incapable of sentiments of
honor and integrity.” The most
they would concede, amid sup-
pressed tittering from the subal-
terns, was that if he still felt
bloodthirsty they would nomi-
nate an officer to give him satis-
faction, and that if this champion •
failed to please, “another and
another will be fixed on until
there is not one left to explain.”
What could a poor surgeon do
in a situation like this save
splutter that he would “maintain
with his last breath the charac-
ter of a gentleman in defiance of
every unmanly mode of detrac-
tion Mr. Macarthur is capable
of using”?
This final sally was answered
with abysmal quietude last-
ing for a long time, until Mr.
Balmain, purely for the sake of
peace and quietness, agreed on
“conditions of mutual forgive-
ness and the destruction of the
papers that passed”—which he
didn’t destroy, but handed in
confidence to Governor Hunter,
who abused his trust and pre-
served them to amuse posterity.
THE SEVEN DIERI
and The Promise of the Re-creation
[Acknowledgments to Eric Jessup for his article on the seven
surviving Dieri tribesmen of Lake Callabonna.]
Yes, I have seen the place. The lake
was a sea of dazzling white salt, horizonless,
so blinding white my eyes still carry the flash
of one long, unguarded, light-stunned look. One island
floated there, floated rose-pink,
floated on layers of invisible, burning,
quivering air. I burned my eyes.
I burned my hand on a stone.
No one must tell them, the surviving seven,
the secret of seeds, the chemistry
of sun and wind working on dormant life,
life resting at the lowest arc of its cycle
indefinitely. Don’t tell them
of seed.
All living things are spirit-children—
agree with them on this this world
is a place of the coming and going
of spirit-children. See eye to eye.
No mocking, mind you.
The old men have of late stopped
sharpening their spears, I mean the hardwood tips.
Each of the seven had a bundle newly-made,
newly-made when the amazing rains
had filled the lake and all the empty rivers,
quickening the long, long sleeping seeds—
Hush! Don’t tell them.
And the spirit-children that had waited so long
came forth and danced day and night,
day and night, springing up at their feet.
The flowers blossomed, the hot wind
cooled its cheek on the face of the lake.
“Darana!” they said. “Darana!” they sang. “Darana
has not forgotten us, forgotten his promise!”
They cut new spears,
fitted, jointed and sharpened them,
seven each for the surviving seven,
and went out hunting for giant meat.
Don’t mock. Not even the birds
mocked them—the fat pigeon, the impudent galah,
the crow, the budgerigar
hanging by his feet from the grass-stems,
pecking at the seeds—the spirit-children
of birds, bird spirit-children,
were silent as the bones beneath the lake.
You see too far, my children, too far,
too far ahead for us. You see
the beginning and end of worlds,
but not the length of the Rainbow Snake, Darana. Don’t
wait
too long. Die . . . sleep. Don’t wait for us. Wait here.
in your dreamtime. Sleep
long as the monsters sleep
beneath the drying sand of Callabonna.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
PRICE
£75
Weight
76lbs.
,4
mm
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Famous thoroughbred breed-
ing establishment Kia - Ora,
Scone (N.S.W.), first home of
some of the most notable
Australian racehorses, has
again enjoyed a successful
foaling season. Manager
Norman Wheeler’s list of foal-
ings shows that close relatives
to some of the best horses in
training, or now off the racing
scene, have been dropped since
August 1. The 18 Midstreams
include a brother to Shannon, a
brother to Adele and Moon-
beam, a brother to Sea Sovereign,
a sister to Rio Fe and a sister
to Bankstream. The 18 in Del-
ville Wood’s list include a
brother to Hydrogen and a
brother to Forest Beau. Seven-
teen foals by the new sire Brim-
stone, a promising batch, include
a half-brother to Swan River
and a half-sister to Delta, Deep
River and Midway, while
brothers to Seacraft and Channel
Rise are listed in the 13 progeny
of Channel Swell. Four Le
Grand Dues complete the 70
foalings. Kia-ora is one of the
most outstanding and successful
studs in the world.
Victorian studmaster R. L.
Andre of Bonny Vale, Ocean
Grove, breeder of the promising
two-year-old Flemington winner
Time Bell, will offer a half-sister
to that colt at the next yearling
sales in Melbourne. Anouk, who
has fchown fairly good form in
Melbourne, and High Volume,
by Masthead (imp.) from Dun-
loe, which realised 2300 guineas
as a yearling, are also pro-
ducts of Bonny Vale, which
became famous under Jimmy
Wilson. Merriwee (Melbourne
Cup,. 1899) and Sir Andrew
(A.J.C. St. Leger) and
other famous gallopers were
trained by Wilson, a name well
in the headlines of early turf
history in Victoria. Studmaster
Andre has made an excellent
start with such a well-bred one
as Time Bell in his first year.
Foals this season at Bonny Vale
include colts by Helios (imp.),
Pamphilos (imp.), Nebris (imp.)
and Karnool, and a filly by
Ottoman (imp.).
• • • •
Tasmanian Turf Club had a
novel idea when calling for
entries for its annual Launceston
Cup meeting, run in the last
week of January. On the back
of each nomination-form is a
complete table of winners of the
Cup since its inception in 1866,
so it is an historic event. Full
details are included: riders, age
of winners, weight, times, etc.,
right through till 1952. It is an
idea mainland clubs could copy,
with advantage, as, apart from
the information contained, it is
a record worth keeping for
future reference.
Brian Osborne, secretary of
Tasmanian Racing Club, and W.
C. S. Oliver, secretary of Tas-
manian Turf Club, have a busy
time ahead, as the big races of
Tassie’s season are to be decided
early in the new year. Laun-
ceston Cup carnival covers four
days, January 24, 26, 28 and 31,
with main attractions the Tas-
manian Derby and the Laun-
ceston Cup of £llOO and £l3O
gold cup miles). The T.R.C. s
highlight is the Hobart Cup of
£l5OO, plus £2OO trophy (|i
miles). Hobart Cup fixture will
be decided on February 14, 18
(Cup day) and 21. Mainland
visitors are advised to book early
by plane or boat.
Sydney racetracks in recent
weeks have been at their fastest
for several seasons, and quite a
number of course- and race-
records have been made; but
horses haven’t travelled fast
enough to lower existing Aus-
tralian records. In fact, no new
time for Australia has been
registered since November, 1950,
when Comic Court, best horse
of the time, ran the two miles
of the Melbourne Cup in
Last Sydney galloper to make
record race-time for Australia
was San Domenico, in the Oak-
leigh Plate in 1949. He covered
the 5j furlongs in 1.4 L Oldest
record on Australia’s list is
stayer Trenton’s 4.39| for 2\
miles in 1885, but there are few
races at that distance now.
Three-mile flat events haven’t
been run for ages, so Trafalgar’s
5.221 for three miles, made at
Randwick in 1911, is likely to
be an all-time record. Though
race clubs are still trying to
develop stayers by staging races
over distances up to two miles,
there are few really good stayers
between Brisbane and Perth.
Country stipendiary stewards
should profit from their ex-
periences at Randwick early in
January, when they will attend
an instructional class arranged
by the A.J.C. They will live at
Randwick racecourse for about
a week, during which they will
see early-morning gallops, attend
lectures delivered by various
executives and be given other
first-hand official racing infor-
mation. Highlight will be a
“rigged” race at Randwick on
Monday, January 5, when the
country stipes will try to pick
an arranged “non-goer.” Trainee
stewards will lay charges after
this “rigged” event, and attend
appeals against their decisions.
Main missing-link will be the
public. They won’t be admitted,
which seems a pity, with a spe-
cially arranged “dead-’un” in a
line-up, though few would detect
the “non-trier.” It is much easier
to lose than win a race, and
jockeys and stewards are likely
to be the butt of noisy demon-
strators after any event. Bad
losers are ever ready to hurl
abuse. Fortunately, violent dis-
turbances are rare on Sydney
tracks. It will be interesting to
see the final outcome of the well-
thought-out scheme so far as
country stipes are concerned.
The idea is new in N.S.W. racing.
An interesting group noticed
at Randwick included Mick
Poison, Jim Pike, Neville Sell-
wood, Edgar Britt, Jim Munro
and Bob Reed. The last-named
was until a few months ago a
leading apprentice. He was dux
for 1952 of the A.J.C.’s school
for apprentices. No doubt the
junior member of the sextet
picked up some useful riding
points from Pike, the “old
master,” and his equally famous
opponent of those now well-
remembered days, Jim Munro.
Internationally-known Britt, who
has ridden more than 700 win-
ners in England, and Sellwood
also dropped a few hints for
Reed to remember. In his hey-
day Pike was one of the best
money-riders in this country.
He was associated with promi-
nent betting stables, and his
many admirers, claim he was the
greatest jockey ever in Australia.
Pike won many races on Phar
Lap, including the 1930 Mel-
bourne Cup at 11 to 8 on —hot-
test favorite in the history of the
Cup. For Poison he won various
races, as did Britt, who was
apprenticed to the Randwick
trainer.
What’s in a, name? Quite a
lot when it applies to a race-
horse. All top-ranking per-
formers have been cleverly and
appropriately named, a point to
be remembered by owners
branching into racing for the
first time. Latest official regis-
trations issued by G. W. Lilley,
Australian registrar, however,
disclose many examples of poor
nomenclature, for which there
really isn’t any excuse, even
though owners and trainers have
often to submit long lists of
suggestions before a title is sanc-
tioned. Names contained in the
latest list include Big Mazurka,
Cairene’s Glory, Clancy’s Deal,
Daphne’s Pal, Grain Dealer,
Licketysplit, Mick’s Mistake,
North Tamberine, Rodoheja,
Skatterkash and Watchoppe—
not an illuminating list! Imagine
a great horse among them?
Long lists of horses in train-
ing are featured in daily news-
papers each week, and it seems
amazing how some owners and
trainers make ends meet. Costs
must be terrific. In N.S.W. there
are only eight metropolitan
events each Saturday, and
“We WOULD strike a patch like this just when I'm
dyin' for a smoke!”
quickly countered the Govern-
ment move. They realised that
a 30 per cent, tote cut would
put them on easy-street if they
could hold the customers, so they
decided to pay punters a 20 per
cent, commission—the difference
between the old and the new
order —and to concede agents a
25 per cent. comm. Big owners
have since been driven to these
“bucket-shops.” Fancy Aus-
tralian s.-p. men making a
similar offer to “clients”? It
seems odds against Colombo
racing surviving long under the
latest order.
Evidently there’s no libel law
in Ceylon so far as racing is con-
cerned, or it looks that way
judging from contents of a
Colombo tipping-sheet and
racing journal, brought to Syd-
ney by a sportsman who made
a recent holiday trip to the East.
The booklet had this to say
about a certain jockey: “He dis-
played as much vigor in win-
ning as he did in stopping it a
week before.” Another par.
stated: “It is obvious in-and-
out running is encouraged. Only
an atom-bomb dope could have
made So-and-so win as she did.”
No Australian newspaper would
risk that sort of stuff.
Tea Towel, raced and trained
by Alan Cooper, has done quite
a lot of racing in the past season
generally seven on holidays, a
provincial fixture almost weekly,
and regular Newcastle pro-
grammes. Many gallopers appear
to hold remote prospects of ever
winning a race unless connec-
tions follow the example of
others, who have sent city “no-
hopers” to “bush” meetings.
The moderate generally comes
into his own at the easier centres,
and many rural clubs are offer-
ing attractive stakemoney, a
point which should be noted by
city owners. All the same,
“bush” horses are hard to beat
on their home ground.
“The club’s doctor is wanted
in the casualty-room.” Too
often this is broadcast over the
racecourse system. Medical-
officers naturally find it con-
genial to move round among
friends during the progress of a
race-meeting, but in a sudden
emergency it is not always easy
for officials to contact them with-
out aid of the broadcast. Per-
haps a better idea for all con-
cerned would be for at least one
of the medical men to remain in
the casualty-room from the start
till the completion of racing.
• • •
An interesting sidelight of a
recent visit to Colombo by
Maurice and Mrs. Whitten, of
Allawah (Sydney), was that dur-
ing their stay the Ceylon
Government increased the totali-
sator rake-off from 10 to 30 per
cent. It was certain attendances
would rapidly decrease, as pun-
ters would decline to accept such
a drastic cut. Even in Australia
racegoers feel the tote percentage
is much too severe. There are
no official bookmakers in Cey-
lon, but Colombo s.-p. opera-
tors, or, as they are better
known, “bucket - shop” men,
or so. In 1951-52 he competed
in 25 races for two wins, and so
far this term he has had 17 out-
ings for one success, Warwick
Farm Milperra Handicap on
November 15. Tea Towel raced
in Brisbane early in his career
and won at Ipswich and
Doomben. His first four races
this season were at Brisbane.
Not many horses compete in as
many as 17 races in the first four
months of a season, but Tea
Towel is a strong and virile
galloper and can be expected to
compete many more times before
the season ends. His owner-
trainer would appreciate a few
more wins from the six-year-old
Rivoli stallion.
The photo-finish system has
put full-stop to one kind of
demonstration at any rate —that
against the judge. That official
had often been the target in wild
outbursts; now he is perhaps
one of the happiest executives
on the course. In a close race
he simply hoists “photo-finish.”
The rest is easy.
* * * *
S. Africa v. an Australian XI
dragged out to a draw in Sydney,
with some of our young hopefuls
showing up well with both bat
and ball. For S. Africa young
Innes impressed in making 50.
Australian XI 372 (Hole 97, C.
McDonald 81 ; Fuller 4-93) and
4- (Carroll 79); S. Africa
296 (McGlew 74; Davidson
5-
In their part of the Sheffield
Shield debate Victoria beat
Queensland by nine wickets at
Melbourne C.G. after a Queens-
land second innings in which
some of the batsmen were appar-
ently trying to qualify for long-
service leave. Queensland 116
(Johnston 8-52) and 233 ; Vic-
toria 208 (Chambers 73) and
1-142 (Holten 59 n. 0., Hassett
47 n. 0.).
• • • •
Sheffield Shield points:
N.S.W. 14 (five games); S. Aus.
10 (two); Vic. 5 (three); W.A.
3 (one); Q. 1 (three).
Apparently sticking to the
view that winning form is good
form, and ignoring demands of
the pundits for sweeping changes
the Australian selectors made
only one change for the second
Test against the Springboks: De
Courcy (N.S.W.) replaced lan
Johnson (Vic.). The twelve
named are: Hassett, Miller,
Harvey, Morris, Lindwall, Hole,
Johnston, Langley, Ring, Mc-
Donald, Benaud, De Courcy.
Twelfth man? Hasn’t everybody
picked him?
• • • •
“L.”: Sydney “Sunday
Herald” (2 /11/ ’52), bowling out
Webster’s definition of “googly,”
was also stumped. Its definition
was “a ball that is bowled with
a leg-break action and breaks to
the off.” The last three words
should, of course, read “from
the off.” Apropos, it is only in
Australia that the googly is also
known as a “bosie,” after its
discoverer, the Englishman
Bosanquet. Despite that his
fame rests mainly on his bowl-
ing discovery, “Bosie” was more
batsman than bowler. It was
actually his batting which gained
him selection in the 1903-04
English touring team —when he
clean-bowled Trumper with the
first googly ever tossed up in
Australia. His bowling, too,
was the chief factor in England
winning the fourth Test, which
decided the rubber in its favor.
“Mid-on”: I’m not condoning
all the slow scoring in the Bris-
bane Test, but the writing-boys
scream without thinking. Test
cricket demands a serious
approach early bats, for
instance, must try to consolidate
an innings (a few wickets lost
quickly can spell disaster), hence
there will be some slow scoring.
McGlew’s slow but fighting
knock in Brisbane, therefore,
deserves nothing but praise.
Good bowling against good bat-
ting can keep down the scoring-
rate and yet result in interesting
cricket. Do these critics want to
see the bowling hit all over the
field all the time? Another
point: do the critics who harp
about low Test-match scoring
(Australia’s 280 in Brisbane is an
example) want a return to the
mammoth totals of the days of
Bradman, Hammond and Pons-
ford? A score of 250 is a good
one against top-class bowling
and fielding. What’s more, it
gives a good chance of avoiding
the maddening draw.
The annual report of the N.Z.
Cricket Council gives full results
of N.Z.’s first-class games (in-
cluding those with the West
Indies) for the 1951-52 season.
One other item noted: the coun-
cil’s affiliation with the Institute
of Turf Culture. Not associ-
ated particularly with the gee-
gees, the institute’s job is to
“collate information for the im-
provement of playing-fields and
turf generally.”
* * * *
Looking at least four inches
taller than George Kapeen
(sft. 9iin.) when they locked
horns at Leichhardt Stadium, A 1
Smith (11.5|) had every physical
advantage over Kapeen (10.10)
and looked a sure winner as he
piled up points in the first two
rounds. Smith also shook
Kapeen with right uppercuts in
round three, but just before the
bell he took delivery of a non-
stop body bombardment that
knocked him back on the ropes.
Kapeen kept up his good work m
the fourth, and connecting with
a continuous rain of punches io
head or body, his chin-caressing
right uppercut floored Smith for
the full count.


Missing Beneficiary
£4OOO WAITING.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Victoria, is
administering the estate of FLORA
CATHERINE WADE, who died on 7th
April, 1951. Will THELMA MARY WADE,
the sole beneficiary, or any person know-
ing her whereabouts, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
Public Notice
I, GEORGE KYRIAZBS, of Greek nation-
ality, born at Vitrinitsa, Doris, Greece,
resident 25 years in Australia, now re-
siding at 120 Gloucester St., Sydney, in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
This Happened in Korea
MISS KIM’S BABY
By JOHN COLLESS
50NG threw back the white-
lined hood of his parka
and, bareheaded in the
falling snow, beseeched his
wife; “Please, please, wait one
more day.”
He knelt on the driving-seat,
leaning over the seat-back into
the rear of the jeep, and said it
twice: in Korean and then in
English. But Miss Kim’s only
response was half-gasp, half-
groan. She sat on a mattress
draped across the tool-lockers,
huddled under a pile of blankets
and coats, clutching hard at her
two-year-old daughter.
It was a dark night, and cold
as only a Korean winter can be.
The snow fell on the white,
frozen road and on the hard,
iced paddies faintly visible on
either side, and on the five of
us crouched stiffly in the open
jeep.
A few miles behind us lay the
dead city of Taejon. It was
much as I had left it a couple
of months before: a flattened’
square mile of pulverised red-
clay walls, and the black ashes
of the rice thatch.
The only difference was that
winter had now thrown a
merciful shroud over the tragic
ruins: a white blanket of snow
and frost which softened the
blackened outlines and stifled the
smell of death beneath the
cinders.
Winter could refrigerate the
dead and save your nostrils from
the stench of putrefaction; but
it could not obliterate the atmos-
phere of death. Rather it pro-
vided a sombre overtone, accen-
tuating the desolation of the
stricken countryside which lay
silent and lifeless, paralysed
from the violence that crushed
it from July to October.
I looked hard at Song: “You
told me it was a couple of weeks
off.”
Song scratched his head. He
was afraid—more afraid than I,
for it was his wife, not mine,
who was about to give birth in
the back of the jeep.
He said, “I must have counted
wrong.”
Somewhere out here was a
“staging-area” for truck convoys.
It seemed a slender hope. At
best it would be a dump of
petrol-drums, and a couple of
pyramidal tents filled with G.l.s
wrapped in their sacks. I could
imagine what they’d feel about
having a party of Korean women
and children forced on them.
And that thought reminded me
of another important problem.
“Song! Where the hell is the
Ford?”
There were three vehicles in
our little party. My jeep, Song
driving, Song’s wife (I asked
him what I should call her and
he said “Miss Kim,” but I be-
lieve that was a fault in trans-
lation rather than in the legality
of their union), Miss Kim’s 12-
year-old sister Kim-ja, and the
Songs’ two-year-old baby. Next
in line came a wheezy Inter-
national News Service jeep
loaded to the eyebrows and
driven —heaven knows how —by
Yun, a worried-looking little
man with bandy legs and tooth-
less front gums (his cranky
vehicle had hit him in the mouth
with the starting-handle).
./ Third was a model-“A” Ford
sedan, carrying an incredible
number of Korean women and
babies. The Ford was an A.P.
vehicle and flaunted its name in
bold white lettering: “Liberated
Lizzie.” Its passengers were
members and relatives of the
Shinn family—Bill Shinn was a
Korean A.P. man —including the
driver, who was the only man in
the car.
Early that morning in Seoul
the last thing I would have
thought possible would have
been that I’d be playing nurse to
a team of women and kids. My
bureau chief in Tokyo had
ordered me to Taegu, and I had
told Song he’d better bring his
wife and baby. Seoul was
dying; American convoys were
rolling southwards out of the
city; engineers were laying
demolition-charges around the
pontoon bridges over the Han;
the smoke of demolition-fires
wisped over the big build-
ings, like warning signals, to the
pitiful, never-ending procession
of white-robed refugees.
Song had described an arc
over his stomach: “Wife have
baby soon.”
“How soon?”
“One month, maybe.”
“Sure?”
“O.K. Sure.”
“You tell her not to have it
on the way to Taegu,” I said,
joking, and Song roared with
laughter.
It was a frosty morning. The
streets were dazzlingly white,
and very slippery. Outside my
billets, Bill Shinn pointed to his
“Liberated Lizzie” and said his
wife and other relatives were
driving to Taegu for safety.
Would I mind if they travelled
with me? He was afraid the
M.P.s would turn them back or
push them off the road unless
they had a Westerner to see them
through.
I had met Mrs. Shinn a few
days before. She was a quiet,
pretty little thing, with a new-
born baby.
I said all right, and then found
that Yun also had joined the
party.
My Army friends and the
Koreans offered practically iden-
tical advice: “Be careful; keep
with the convoys ; don’t travel
at night.” I found I couldn’t
do any of those things.
The sun was shining palely as
we crossed the Han and climbed
into the ruins of Yongdung-po,
but soon it began to snow. I
lost the other two vehicles three
times in the first three miles and
had three arguments with the
M.P.s before rescuing them. We
flowed down with the great mass
of military traffic as far as
Suwon, slithering dangerously on
the iced surface and squelching
through the bogs.
The sides of the road were
littered with burnt-out wrecks of
trucks and jeeps. Some had
skidded off the road, some had
broken down and been pushed
off. The road was dangerous
and uncomfortable. Every
bridge had been blown in the
earlier stages of the war. We
drove through Osan, Pyongtaek,
Chonan, past the knocked-out
tanks, through the long proces-
sion of burnt-out villages and
towns. Miss Kim, cramped,
jolted and bounced in the back
of the jeep (she refused the front
seat), took it without a whimper
for eleven icy hours.
All along that weary 120-miles
journey to Taejon—half-way-
mark to Taegu—l shepherded
the two other vehicles from the
rear, lest they be cut off behind
me. Only on the last two miles
had I taken the lead on a search
for shelter, and the Ford had got
lost.
Song peered along the white
ribbon of road, now picked out
in the glare of truck headlights
as a column of vehicles drummed
southwards in a hurry. Ever
optimistic, he said of the Ford:
“She come pretty soon, I think.”
I didn’t think so. “Tell Yun
to drive back towards Taejon,
find out what’s happened to the
Ford. Tell him if it can move
to guide it here. If it’s broken
down to come back straight away
and tell us.”
Song nodded and began trans-
lating to Yun, who had the
bonnet of his jeep up and was
prodding around the engine.
I thought: Yun won’t come
back. His jeep will break down.
Or the M.P.s will pick him up,
or he’ll get lost. The babies in
the Ford will freeze to death if
they haven’t already. Miss Kim
will have her new baby in the
back of our jeep any moment
now. I’m supposed to be on my
way to Eighth Army H.Q.
Tokyo will be expecting copy out
of there pretty soon. And Song
and Yun are spending the night
making hawking noises at each
other —for that’s what the
Korean language sounds like.
“Yun! Get that jeep mov-
ing!”
Song and Yun looked at me
anxiously. More hawking, this
time subdued. Yun began run-
ning around his jeep. Then he
half - disappeared inside its
heavily-loaded back and began
throwing things out on to the
road —some old coats, a gourd,
a pair of sandshoes.
In the darkness the whole situ-
ation seemed like an illogical
dream of an overtired mind.
Song was burrowing into our
trailer. Yun stopped throwing
things and surfaced with a jerry-
can. He held it aloft and
hawked at Song.
Song explained: “No oil.
Yun has no oil for jeepu. But
all right”—soothingly—“we fix.”
Miss Kim twitched under the
mountain of blankets and coats,
then handed the two-year-old to
Kim-ja. This simple action hit
me like a sledgehammer. I
knew we didn’t have much time
left.
A pair of headlights showed
on the road coming north. A
jeep pulled-up abreast of us. The
reflected lights showed the white
helmets of four American
military police.
Here we go. The coppers!
What’ll they say? “No refugees
allowed on the M.S.R. Those
are our orders.”
But instead, a soft, burry
voice, called: “You be needin’
any help, sir?”
“That’s mighty kind of you,”
I said, sparring for time.
“You’re welcome.”
I decided to risk it, and told
them about the Ford.
“A-model Ford? Sure thing.
It’s back a mile, parked. Korean
driver. Said he was waiting for
an English officer. Guess that
would be you, now.”
I didn’t argue about it.
“Thanks very much.”
“You’re welcome.”
God bless America. So I
told them about Miss Kim and
the babies. They said the stag-
ing-area was the only chance
of shelter, but they were doubt-
ful. They told me the way,
wished me luck, and drove off,
their carbines sticking up be-
tween their knees.
We went back, picked up the
Ford, and drove cautiously
along the turn-off to the staging-
area.
It was pretty much as I had
expected—inhospitable and dark.
I could see a couple of tents and
a small hut. I left the vehicles
and went into the hut, plough-
ing knee-deep through a snow-
drift. A camp-stretcher stood
along one wall; a pot-bellied
stove in the centre of the room
was nearly red-hot; in a corner
was a wooden table, and behind
this, slouched in a chair with his
legs draped over the table, was a
smoky-skinned soldier with pro-
truding teeth, wearing a cloth
combat cap with “Hawaii” pen-
cilled on the front. He was
chewing gum. As I entered he
said: “We’re full up.”
I said: “Where can I find the
officer in charge here?”
The smoky-skinned one said :
“No good seeing him. He don’t
do anything,”
“Where is he?”
“He’d be in the sack right
now.”
“Where are his quarters?”
“Out back somewheres.”
“Can you show just where?”
“Well ... I guess I don’t
rightly know.”
“Is there a medical officer
here?”
“Well . . . Say, Finch” (to a
parka crouched in front of the
stove), “any medics round here?”
The parka stirred slightly:
“Beats the hell outer me.”
I believed them. For I’ve
learned that the G.I. is peerless
among all other troops for not
knowing where anything or any-
one is.
A short, thickset man walked
in. He had the same smoky
skin as the gum-chewer, but in-
stead of chewing he was picking
his teeth with a stick.
The gum-chewer said: “You
can talk to the sergeant if you
like,” indicating with his thumb
the newcomer.
I talked to the sergeant, briefly.
He looked at me in amused sur-
prise: “You’re a Britisher, ain’t
you?”
“Australian —pretty much the
same thing.”
“We don’t look after gooks.
Britishers yes, but gooks, no.”
“Sergeant, I’m not asking this
as a right but as a favor in an
emergency. Those kids out there
will die if they don’t have shelter
tonight. One of them is less
than a week old. And so will
the woman who’s half-way to
having her baby in the snow
now,”
He picked his teeth in deep
thought. Perhaps in the dim
recesses of that strange mind was
the image of a kid sister, or a
wife, or a baby that he himself
had sired. He said: “Well . . .
you can bring them in here.
Your woman that’s going to
have a baby can have it in that
corner. There’s a cot and it’s
warm. There’ll be one or two
guys in here all night, but it
can’t be helped.”
Mrs. Shinn and the others
were hesitant about going in.
“We do not want to make
trouble,” she said in soft, un-
steady English. They knew
Koreans were not allowed in
U.S. military establishments, and
Mrs. Shinn was a bit scared of
the soldiers. So I picked up
Mrs. Shinn’s baby, and they fol-
lowed me into the hut.
I leant down to Mrs. Shinn
and said, “Don’t worry. Every-
thing will be all right.”
She gave me a sad smile and
said: “Yes, I am sure it will
be all right.”
The parka gave a whoop.
“She talks English,” he mar-
velled.
I ran outside to collect Miss
Kim. She lay in the back of
the jeep, almost invisible beneath
the coverings, white-coated with
snow. Song stood beside her, his
eyes wide, and as near as a
Korean can be to crying. Miss
Kim wouldn’t budge.
I darted back to the sergeant.
“Isn’t there a doctor anywhere
about here?” I asked.
He picked his teeth for a
while. “There was another
Britisher looking for a doctor,
week ago. Feller busted his
leg.” He led the way through
a rear-door to a tented annexe.
There —wonderful sight! —was
a sergeant of the Royal Army
Service Corps. He was pulling
his greatcoat on before I’d
finished talking.
He said: “There’s a doctor at
the airstrip, about a mile away.
A Korean, but a good type. I’ll
drive you down.”
There was another sergeant
with him —an American, of a
different cut to the characters in
the hut. I said to him : “Would
you mind keeping an eye
on” and indicated with a
backward nod the inside of the
hut. He twigged instantly.
“Sure thing. Don’t you worry,”
he said. And went in straight
away. (When eventually I re-
turned I found him nursing one
of the babies, while the smoky-
skinned fraternity looked sullenly
at the pistol on his hip.)
The R.A.S.C, sergeant drove
me to the airstrip in his big
powerful Matador, through a
mess of trackless snowdrifts and
bogs. There was certainly no
road. We cut across the strip
and pulled up outside one of a
row of huts.
The hut was divided into three
sections, partitioned off with
plywood. The front was a bare,
crude surgery. The centre part
was the doctor’s sleeping-
quarters. It was actually more
than that, for a patient lay on
an ambulance stretcher, and on
campbeds slept the doctor, his
orderly and two Korean fighter-
pilots due for a dawn mission.
The doctor was a young
Korean major. He spoke
English slowly but almost per-
fectly. He began dressing, while
still half-asleep, as I told him
about our problem. He told me
his name was Kay. He didn’t
say so, but I sensed he was
worried about how he would ex-
plain things to his American
Commanding Officer. As it
turned out that was the least of
his worries. The C. 0., Colonel
John Hess, was one of the most
humane men I have ever met,
and one of the grandest.
Dr. Kay thought out his
problem and said; “We could
put her in here,” indicating the
rear part of the hut. “We have
eight Korean girls there. We
brought them down with us from
Pyongyang. They will help
look after her.”
1 could have kissed him, but
I didn’t have time.
The R.A.S.C. sergeant and I
made back to the staging-camp
as fast as the big Matador would
take us, its engine roaring
hideously in low-gear as we
ploughed through snowdrifts
and lurched back through
the mud. The snow was
thick on Miss Kim, still
lying in the open back of
the jeep, and she seemed un-
conscious. Kim-ja held the
two-year-old and steadied her
sister as we bounced the jeep
along the Matador’s tracks.
Song and I carried Miss Kim
to the hut. We gave the Korean
girls my American camp-
stretcher, some Australian grey
blankets, and a. box of British
Army rations. Then we went
back to the staging-camp,
rescued the others from the
smoky-skinned ones, and came
down in convoy once more to
wait outside the doctor’s hut at
the fighter-strip.
Doc Kay came out, walked
over to the jeep, laid a hand on
my shoulder and said: “Well,
it’s all over. She has a male
child. It was a normal delivery.
Would you like to see it?” We
had made it by a bare 15
minutes.
Song and I followed him into
the hut. Miss Kim slept in my
stretcher, muffled in the grey
blankets. On another stretcher,
well rugged up, lay the cause of
all this bother, surrounded by
the Korean girls.
Doc Kay said: “He is a very
strong child. When 1 was sever-
ing the umbilical - cord he
(i Continued on page 34) •


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
POLICIES FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Whatever else it produces, the
conference of Commonwealth
Prime Ministers in London
evoked from the British Press
enough diagnoses of and pre-
scriptions for our economic ills
to fill volumes. Typical com-
ment, sometimes in accord,
sometimes not, includes:
London “Daily Express”; “At
this moment the British Com-
monwealth produces;
48 per cent, of the world’s
wool;
75 per cent, of the nickel;
97 per cent, of the jute ;
40 per cent., of the tin ;
58 per cent, of the rubber ;
26 per cent, of the manganese ;
23 per cent, of the copper.
“And that is only the begin-
ning of the list.
“There is scarcely a material
in which the British Empire is
not either self-sufficient or could
not quickly become self-suffi-
cient. The only thing the British
Empire has so far lacked is men
with enough faith to produce an
economic union that would turn
potential wealth into abiding and
wondrous prosperity.”
Food Production
London “Observer”: “For
countries which cannot far sur-
pass the conventional industrial
techniques by new and original
inventions, increased food-pro-
duction is a far safer road to
prosperity and influence now
than imitative industrialisation.
“It will come as a shock to
many people to learn that today
the greatest economic weakness
of the sterling area as a whole
is a grave deficiency in staple
foods. Those who talk con-
fidently of ‘the Empire’ as a
potentially self-sufficient trading
area are not aware of the facts.
If the Sterling Area were sud-
denly cut off from its dollar
imports many millions of its in-
habitants would starve to death ;
and many tens of millions would
suffer real hunger.
“Official figures compiled in
London show that the sterling
countries have an exportable
food surplus only of the dietary
trimmings tea, cocoa and
spices, for example. In all the
really essential foodstuffs
cereals, meat, cheese, sugar, fruit
—the sterling area as a whole
has now a large regular defi-
ciency which has to be filled
from non-sterling sources.
“Food is the most costly fea-
ture of the sterling-area import
bill —wheat alone heads the
itemised list of sterling-area
imports in value —and it is also
the most inelastic one. In slump
times it is quite imaginable that
our customers will do without
Malayan rubber and tin, Aus-
tralian wool, West African cocoa,
Indian and Ceylonese tea,
Rhodesian copper and British
machinery and textiles; but
British, Indians, Australians,
Malays and Africans can never
do without wheat. And yet there
is almost no country in the ster-
ling area which could not grow
much more food than it does
now, if it chose to do so.
Industry
“The first remedy for the
dollar deficits of the overseas
sterling area, therefore, must be
a conscious change in the direc-
tion of Commonwealth develop-
ment—away from industrialisa-
tion and towards the production
of food. This would help in the
first place to save dollars. Even-
tually Commonwealth-produced,
meat, butter and cheese could
also begin to earn dollars, as
American demand outruns
domestic output.”
The “New Statesman”: “The
plain facts are, or rather include,
the following. First, the Com-
monwealth, including Great
Britain, needs to grow much
more food, even though doing
this will tend to check the ten-
dency for the world prices of
foodstuffs to rise faster than
other prices. This means slow-
ing down industrialisation and
diverting capital investment to
agricultural development.
“Secondly, Great Britain, in
addition to investing heavily in
agriculture, needs both to
modernise its industrial equip-
ment much faster than it has
been doing and to bring about
a larger shift of manpower and
capital resources to making those
goods for which there is an ex-
panding world market within its
reach —above all, capital equip-
ment related to the needs of
agricultural and transport de-
velopment. This involves, for
some time to come, a fall in
the supplies of consumers’ goods,
both home-produced and im-
ported ; for evidently we cannot
look to the Americans to sub-
sidise our standards of living
while we are making the change.
“Thirdly, the colonial areas
have a right to expect, not only
that we cease using their money
to pay for our own imports, but,
further, that we send them the
goods they need —rather than
those we prefer to sell them —
for raising their standards of
living by measures of economic
development which, do not ex-
ploit their labor.”
“Yorkshire Post”: If we are
to recover solvency we must sell
to others, and specially to the
United States, what our cus-
tomers want. To do this we
must set-up the machinery for
making these things. To arrange
for this will require a good deal
of give and take and, therefore,
of negotiation,
“During recent years some of
the Dominions have been sink-
ing too much capital in factories
for producing goods which
would make their own peoples’
lives more agreeable—refrigera-
tors in Australia are a frequently
mentioned case in point.
Development
“Not enough effort has been
given to schemes like the Gold
Coast scheme for producing
aluminium, which will not help
to make things more comfortable
within the Commonwealth but
which will, in all human proba-
bility, command a large market
in the United States.
“To expend a greater effort
on sending things abroad for
export and to keep less for our-
selves—that is the essential task.
The problem now is to induce
every member of the Common-
wealth to accept a harder way
of life.”
“Manchester Guardian”: “If
the development of these Com-
monwealth countries is not to
be heavily delayed, with all the
disappointed national aspirations
that this implies, new sources of
capital must be found, and found
quickly.
“The first source of additional
capital will have to be found in
this country. For a nation of
50,000,000 accustomed to modern
industry Britain’s production is
far too low. We have not begun
to realise the wealth that can
be drawn out of modern pro-
ductive equipment.
“And what we produce is not
properly allocated. If we are to
find new resources and new
markets to make good the losses
inflicted by the dropping of the
Iron Curtain we must face some
years of saving and building-up.
The same is true of the other
Commonwealth countries that
have ambitious development
plans.”
The Money
I nnHnn “cinonmoi •
“For an oTao Jin k;
Z°l a l, ” d . f ° r
primary considera-ion But it is
E y . ‘ ■ .
1 t he only one. It is
Xmio?So a v k ,°X
fi i L I? S ° “ | WIU ,i
££. Ik,™ lable is-employ.sd
, , . erats Wllcb . ar f , °
SfXf X™ USe ' d s ter "
mining this, two considerations
are pre-eminent. The schemes
must either heln the sterling area
must eimer nelp tne sterling area
to save dollars—as will the Volta
River (aluminium) project and
the increased food in
a J nc £ eased rood-production in
Australia —or they must be
directed towards the develnn
uirectea towards me develop
ment of commodities which, like
copper, will have an expanding
market in the TT q ”
SSk
!mpo“preparei
toS abroL more fr?elv Tn
the field of^endim^thnuehts'turn
the held at lending thoughts turn
towards the possibility of making
fuller use of the Bretton Woods
World~Fund W ° rW
a ■
whirh tL iLuZ stall/ rnioht
which the United States might
v Onf is h
sterling family. One is a sub-
S The nthlf k
P ™ f f g l d ‘ The ° the £ !
some sort of agreement about
Americas raw-material pur-
“i_r u r ■u ”
N.Y. Herald Tribune : The
American Chamber of Com-
merce m London has made
recommendations not only to he
sterling coun.ues but to the
United States. Those to the
United States include lower
tariffs, more foreign travel, en-
re
Dallas “Morning Post”
KOREAN PRISONERS-OF-WAR DEBATE
couragement of American in-
vestments abroad, continued
buying of military supplies
abroad and regularity in the
purchase of raw materials. This
is generous advice, and should
meet a sympathetic reception
abroad.”
The Korea Team
Between the two extremes of
thought—one seems to regard
Korea as a completely U.S.
show, while the other, incredibly,
contrives to overlook Uncle
Sam’s major interest in the busi-
ness —comes a refreshingly bal-
anced view from the Baltimore
“Sun.”
Noting the popular American
habit of referring to “token help
given us by other members of
the United Nations in the war
in Korea,” the “Sun” goes oh to
say that “many of us are sur-
prised to learn (from General
James A. Van Fleet) that of the
15 United Nations divisions on
the front only five are American.
We are equally surprised to be
told by the commander of the
Eighth United States Army that
in each United States division
there are 2500 South Koreans
eating, sleeping and fighting be-
side Americans without any dis-
tinction.
“The preponderant element of
this Allied manpower is, of
course, Republic of Korea
forces. They hold 60 per cent,
of the battlefront. However,
another 15 per cent, of the front
is held by other United Nations
units. That leaves only 25 per
cent of the front to be held by
us [U.S.]. Gen. Van Fleet cites
numerous incidents of heroic
action to illustrate the fine fight-
ing quality of the troops of these
other countries. He emphasises
the great improvement that has
been made by the ROKs as the
result of better training during
the last year.
“On the other hand, a false
impression of our own contribu-
tion would be given were men-
tion not made of some
$500,000,000-worth of supplies,
weapons and services which we
have poured into Korea during
the past two years in addition
to men. Besides that, the ROKs
and some other of the United
Nations forces depend upon us
for artillery and air support and
for various auxiliary duties be-
hind the lines.
“Yet, great as our share is, it
does not justify us in dismissing
the participation of others as
‘token aid.’ There is import-
ance also in General Van
Fleet’s statement that this
United Nations team has been
operating now for 29 months
without dissatisfaction or dis-
agreement. That achievement is
highly encouraging evidence of
the practicability of an inter-
national force which in the
original United Nations scheme
was to be a primary factor in
preserving world peace.”
Unesco
The cut of 2,500,000 dollars in
the budget of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cul-
tural Organisation and the result-
ing resignation-in-protest of its
director-general, Dr. Torres
Bodet, produced both friendly
and unfriendly examinations of
Unesco’s record.
The organisation’s failings,
noted the “Manchester
Guardian,” do not “conceal the
very great importance of
Unesco’s real functions as a co-
ordinator and as a distributor-
organising co-operation between
scientific, learned and artistic
bodies and facilitating access of
the poorer and less-favored
lands to every form of cultural,
scientific and educational
achievement of the richer and
better-favored ones.
“Unesco is essentially a mid-
wife ; its less-favorable reputa-
tion has generally been gained
when it insisted in indulging in
maternity on its own account.
But this year’s programme has
been a very earnest attempt to
cut out maternity and stick to
midwifery. Those who have
constructed the programme can
ask with some bitterness how
much attempt there has been to
examine it by this standard.”
London “Economist” was less
merciful: “Six years after
Unesco’s birth many of its activi-
ties are still in the stage of ex-
periment and preliminary study,
and it is busily setting-up even
more specialist bodies, whose
appearance necessitates further
co-ordinating committees. Its
interests range from the un-
worldly ‘Studies of Social Prob-
lems Likely to Create National
and International Tensions’ to
such banal publications as
‘Newsreels Across the World,’
and its output of bibliographies,
monographs and bulletins is now
vast.
“Admittedly there are, em-
bedded in its programme like in-
frequent currants in a suet pud-
ding, a number of practical and
badly-needed projects ; but per-
haps Unesco’s gravest fault is the
way it relegates these encourag-
ing items to a minor place. It
seems to have no idea of the im-
portance of presenting the
peoples who support it with
evidence that it can produce
concrete results.
“Support for its ideals is still
widespread ; but, with its shock-
ing proposals to build a sky-
scraper in the Bois de Boulogne
and its decision to spend an extra
300,000 dollars by holding its
next conference in Montevideo
fresh in their memories, few
people will doubt that Unesco
has scope for economies.”
Convertibility
London “Financial Times,”
elucidating on a subject more
talked about than understood:
“Convertibility of the pound
is a long phrase for a simple
situation. The pound can be said
to be fully convertible when any
holder of any pound can freely
buy with it the equivalent
amount of any other country’s
currency. Simple though this
situation is in essence, however,
it cannot be brought into being
by any financial incantation, for
its implications are complex and
far-reaching. It is only necessary
to point to a few of them.
“First of all, it is doubtful
whether convertibility could be
contemplated without a free
exchange rate to go with it. The
experience of 1947, to mention
no other (and admittedly almost
all circumstances were unfavor-
able), suggests that convertibility
with a fixed rate would always
result, sooner or later, in an
unstoppable run on the reserve.
“Behind this technical con-
sideration there lie, moreover,
the more important real condi-
tions of convertibility. In a
phrase, convertibility cannot be
introduced unless in fact, though
everyone can exchange pounds
for dollars, or francs, or
cruzeiros, or anything else, the
majority of the holders will not
want to do so. This in its turn
implies that the United King-
dom, by running a surplus on
its balance of payments, both on
capital and current account, is
always tending to restrict the
supply of sterling below the
demand ; and that the trend of
costs and the length of delivery
dates in the United Kingdom
itself always appear better than
in any other industrial area,
above all in the United States.
“The United Kingdom must
not only run a surplus on its
balance of payments in the con-
text of a dollar balance ; it must
also finance this surplus from its
own internal savings, not, as in
the recent past, with external
assistance.
“These are not the conse-
quences of convertibility; they


are its preconditions. Nor are
they all. There may be some
hope of increasing the sterling
area’s dollar exports in the next
few years—the outer sterling
area’s commodity exports to the
United States, the United King-
dom’s capital-goods exports to
Canada —but hardly enough to
ensure a balance. A further
programme of substituting ster-
ling-area production, especially
of wheat, for dollar imports will
have to be undertaken. And the
external reserves will have to be
built up so that, even if there is
a world recession, it will be
obvious to all holders of sterling
that the United Kingdom (as
banker of the sterling area) has
sufficient ballast to ride out the
storm. Otherwise, as in 1947, at
the first sign of trouble they will
all want to tranship.”
Nor is that the end of it, other
difficulties including (1) about
£3,000,000,000 of sterling bal-
ances partly held by countries
over whom the sterling-area
countries can have no direct
control; (2) the lack of unani-
mity about the desirability and
meaning of convertibility; (3)
the timing of its introduction,
assuming that it is desirable;
and (4) the uncertainty both
about the British Treasury’s
mental reservations on the sub-
ject and about Mr. Butler’s con-
trol of the U.K. economy “as
he wrestles with the triple mon-
ster of a Budget deficit, high
taxation and rearmament expen-
diture.”
Where the Money
Went
In the 11 years ended June
30, 1951, the U.S. A. handed out
to its Allies in war and peace a
total of 82,000,000,000 dollars
in the form of economic, mili-
tary, financial and technical
assistance. In a detailed account-
ing for the handout, the U.S.
Department of Commerce lists
the beneficiaries with, at the
head of the list, the United
Kingdom, Soviet Russia and
France, who, between them in
the 11 years, received two-thirds
of the 82 billion grant and credit
aid.
Gross aid granted to the
United Kingdom was
35.913.000. dollars, with a
return of 5,882,000,000 dollars
(mostly in goods and services to
American troops during the last
war), making a net foreign aid
to the United Kingdom of
30.031.000. dollars.
As a result of war-time aid,
the U.S.S.R. ranked second with
11.000. dollars.
Almost 11,000,000,000 dollars
in American foreign aid has been
repaid, resulting in a “net
foreign aid” of 71,600,000,000
dollars.
The Commerce Department’s
report divides the period under
survey into the five years of
World War 11, during which
U.S. Lend-lease and other aid
totalled 49,200,000,000 dollars ;
the five post-war years, in which
aid totalled 28,300,000,000 dol-
lars ; and the first year of the
Korean war, in which assistance
of all kinds totalled 4,900,000,000
dollars.
Most of the aid to Western
Europe went as Lend-lease
materials and supplies. How-
ever, 12,600,000,000 dollars of
the net total was made available
during the European Recovery
Programme between April, 1948,
and June, 1951. Of this latter
amount 9,700,000,000 dollars was
for economic aid under E.R.P.,
and 1,100,000,000 dollars
through the Mutual Defence
Assistance Programme of mili-
tary aid. Other programmes,
including technical and develop-
ment projects, accounted for
another 1,800,000,000 dollars.
Totals for other Western
European nations in gross
foreign aid for the 11 fiscal years
1940-51 were: —•
Austria, 837,000,000 dollars;
Belgium - Luxembourg,
829.000. ; Denmark,
252.000. France,
6.986.000. ; Federal Republic
of Germany, 3,539,000,000;
Greece, 1,403,000,000; Ireland,
139.000. Italy, 2,631,000,000;
the Netherlands, 1,266,000,000 ;
Norway, 312,000,000; Portugal,
34.000. Sweden, 108,000,000;
Trieste, 44j000,000 ; and Turkey,
378.000.
Under Eisenhower
Some aspects of life under
Eisenhower, as prophesied by
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” :
War: More Koreans will be
armed and trained to fight.
Nationalist Chinese forces will
be used. Truce showdown will
be pressed—either a settlement
will be reached or new measures
taken.
Peace : A powerful U.S. will
seek to regain the initiative in
world policy; it will no longer
let Russia call the tune. Russian
bluff will be called ; either she’ll
talk peace and mean it, or face
a more dynamic U.S. policy.
Military Service: Draft will
continue. Draftees will continue
to serve two years. Deferment
policies will be tightened. Uni-
versal military service will not
be pushed. Reservists will con-
tinue to be in some danger of
call during manpower pinch.
Business: A friendly Govern-
ment will rule for the first time
in 20 years. Businessmen will
have the ear of the President.
Power of decision on prices,
wages and interest-rates will
largely be returned to the
market-place.
Pay: Wage-rates will be fixed
by collective bargaining. The
Government will not throw its
weight on the side of union
leaders. The strike weapon, if
used, will not be backed by the
Government. Wage- and salary-
control, barring a big war, will
come to an end.
Cost of Living: Trend will be
slowly downward. Policies of
Government that promote an
upward spiral of prices will be
altered or reversed. Some price
declines will not be regarded as
a calamity.
Welfare: Old-age pension
coverage will be broadened.
Disability insurance will not be
pushed. Health insurance will
not get White House support.
Federal aid for building schools
in less wealthy States.
Taxes : No more soak-the-rich
philosophy. Tax-law changes
will stress incentives to chance-
taking ; will fend to reward, not
punish, success. Barring bigger
war, trend in taxes will be gradu-
ally down.
Money: The market, supply
and demand, will be allowed
more nearly to determine in-
terest-rates, the price of money.
Reserve banks will be slower to
support Government bond
prices. Dollars, gradually, will
become worth more.
Communists: A sweeping
cleanout of top job-holders will
occur. So-called “pinks,” those
with Left-wing sympathies, will
be among the first to go. There
will be a “hard” attitude to-
wards any suspected of Com-
munist leanings.
Spending: Economy will be
stressed. Cuts will be made in
Government jobs. Military ser-
vices will be forced to stream-
line, to get more for their dol-
lars. Aid abroad will be cut,
centred on military aid. Veterans
and farmers will continue to get
favors.
Public Power : Will be re-
garded mainly as the business of
private enterprise or of the
States. New systems of dams,
like T.V.A., will not be in
official favor. The old battle
between Government and pri-
vate power companies will end.
In distributing power from
Government-built dams a work-
ing arrangement will be sought
with private utilities.
And, according to the same
authority, if that isn’t enough to
occupy the new President, he
will have the following head-
aches for his spare time;
Britain: Still going broke,
asks help. Germany: Anti-
American Socialists may take
over, France : Touchy French
could upset European defence
plan. Italy: Communists and
Fascists threaten pro-U.S. Gov-
ernment. North Africa: Natives
demand home-rule where U.S.
has bases. Egypt: No agree-
ment yet on Middle East de-
fence. Iran : Break with Britain
Washington “Post"
THE FIRST TEE
unhealed and Communists
stronger. India: U.S. aid sought,
quarrel with Pakistan continues,
Burma: Guerrillas keep new
Government wobbly. Malaya :
British troops fight guerrillas.
Indo-China: Communist - led
rebels renew war on French.
Korea: Neither peace nor vic-
tory in sight, while casualties
soar. Japan : Long-term U.S.
aid or U.S. trade wanted.
Africa: Native strike and viol-
ence worry colonial Powers.
Argentina: Government pushes
“hate-U.S.” campaign. Brazil:
Anti-U.S. feeling endangers de-
fence pact. Guatemala: Grow-
ing Communist influence.
Hunger
However suspect was the old
cry of “lebensraum,” the subject
is moving up to top priority with
scientists and statesmen alike.
“Enough to eat” is as good a
cause as any to fight for, and
there is small comfort in the re-
port of the United Nations Food
and Agriculture Organisation
that the larger part of the world
will go hungry next year. And
beyond that, too, the prospects
of matching the world’s food-
production to its population
look pretty dim.
In some comment about the
U.S.A., Canada and South
Africa —but which is equally
pertinent to Australia the
Toronto “Globe and Mail” con-
siders “the outlook is nothing
short of disaster. It is generally
assumed that it takes about two
acres of land to feed one person.
There are now not more than
four billion acres of arable land
throughout the world, in areas
where there is enough rainfall
and the conditions of tempera-
ture and length of season to
produce dependable crop yields.
The latest estimate of the
world’s population is now 2700
million, which is obviously
pressing toward the utmost mini-
mum of subsistence.
“But even worse, land that is
theoretically arable is more often
than not less effectively culti-
vated than it might be. In most
parts of the world, outside
Europe and North America,
agricultural methods are primi-
tive and usually very wasteful
of soil values. A considerable
acreage of potentially cultivable
land in Canada and the United
States could only be farmed if
the farmer were willing to accept
peasant conditions of life.
Greater crop yields are possible
with more intensive methods of
cultivation, but these in turn re-
quire more people on the land,
which is contrary to the popula-
tion trend all over this continent.
“Even in the United States,
where it might be assumed that
education and Government
policy on conservation would
have a beneficial result, it is esti-
mated that about half a million
acres of good land are spoiled
every year through erosion alone,,
“Overgrazing has reduced by
half the grazing-capacity of over
a million acres in the course of
50 years.
“In South Africa the condi-
tions due to erosion and failure
to keep the soil fertilised are
actually alarming, and Govern-
ment experts there recently pre-
dicted extremely serious difficul-
ties in the next 10 years, unless
there is a revolution in land
treatment.
“Since we live in a country in
which food is not a serious prob-
lem, it is difficult to get our
people interested in the broad
question of declining production
and increasing population. But
the growing unrest among the
underprivileged people of the
earth is a symptom which we
disregard at our peril. It is easy
to ascribe the discontents and
strivings to nationalist aspira-
tions and ‘self-realisation.’ We
should not overlook the role of
simple hunger. And it is get-
ting worse every year.”
Dragnet Digest
Korea. —There is little reason
for Russia to want peace in
Korea, notes the “Economist,”
while the war is “having poli-
tical and strategic effects that
were certainly neither expected
nor hoped for when the attack
on South Korea was first
launched. To keep important
American forces bitterly
engaged ; to cause dissension be-
tween the United States and its
allies by the inequality of
sacrifice that is revealed in the
casualty-lists; to strain the
resources of the Soviet Union s
rivals without losing a single
Russian soldier —this all adds up
in Moscow to an immensely
profitable operation of war by
proxy.”
U.S. Trade Restriction.
When the U.S. used its 1951
Defence Production Act to place
restrictions on the import of
cheese and other dairy products,
Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
Denmark and the Netherlands
all protested and charged Uncle
Sam with violating solemn trade
agreements. Only the Nether-
lands took action, however,
announcing that it would reduce
imports of American wheat flour
from 75,000 tons to 57,000 tons.
Which drew from the Louisville
“Courier Journal” the remark
that “Thus the American wheat-
farmer has to pay through the
nose because some Wisconsin
dairyfarmer ran to Congress and
got a special little tariff protec-
tion tacked on to a major defence
bill.”
On Canada. “New York
Times” view: “Canada has had
greatness thrust upon her by the
breathtaking events of the las
10 years. For the first time in
her history she is a wealthy and
powerful nation in her own right
The free world can be considered
fortunate that this new Power
has been placed in the hands of
a dual nation of French- and
English-speaking people well
suited and well disposed to
defend the principles of
democracy for which we all
stand,”
West German Communists. —
Asked by the editor of New
York’s German-language “Auf-
bau” if he were worried about
Communist influence in Western
Germany, Chancellor Adenauer
replied: “No. There are too
many war-prisoners who have
returned to Germany with re-
ports of their experiences that
have produced an overwhelm-
ingly strong inner resistance to
Communism. Also, the policy
of the Russians in Germany has
shown that totalitarian systems,
no matter whether they are of
Nazi or Soviet coloration, are
intolerable.”
Tribute to Dr. Malan —ln the
heat of controversy, critics are
apt to overlook some of the
benefits which Dr. Malan’s
South African Government has
conferred on the native popula-
tion. Listing some of them for
the “Spectator,” Dr. R. H. W.
Shepherd, Principal of the Love-
dale Missionary Institution in
South Africa, points out that,
“In 1924 the South African
Government was spending
£340,000 per annum on the edu-
cation of Africans. The Budget
for April, 1952, to March, 1953,
amounts to almost £8,000,000.
No previous Government has
made so large a provision as the
Malan Government is doing.
Twenty-five years ago there was
in Cape Province—the most ad-
vanced Province educationally—
only one post-primary school for
Africans. Today there are
eighty.”
Tito’s Hard Times. —As but
one example of Yugoslavia’s
economic pinch London “Daily
Telegraph’s” military corres-
pondent cites the air traveller’s
first impression of Belgrade.
“The first sight one sees is a
great block of derelict buildings.
Here and there in the surround-
ing countryside stand more of
these unfinished derelicts, on
which work has long since
ceased. All bear mute witness
to the vicissitudes through which
Marshal Tito’s Five Year Plan
has passed under the pressure of
the Cominform blockade.”
Moscow to India. —According
to “Gudok,” official organ of
the Soviet Railway Ministry,
Russia is to build a railway
direct from Moscow to the
borders of Afghanistan. Noting
this, the “Scotsman” adds:
“British Chiefs of Staff, before
Britain left India in 1947, agreed
that there was no sign of any
aggressive intention on the part
of the Soviet Union towards
India because an attack would
need to be covered by forward
air-bases supplied by railroads.
Now a line is to be built from
the western industrial areas of
the Soviet Union in the direction
of the Khyber Pass.”
Indo-China Cost. London
“News Chronicle” explains why
France feels it has more than
enough on its hands in Indo-
China and should have more
help there; “On defence next
year France proposes to spend
in Europe £B9O million and in
Indo-China £387 million. On
the defence of all her other
overseas territories France
budgets to spend next year only
£4O million.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Production
To hold our place in export markets
and to maintain our living standards, we
must do more than talk about greater
production. An essential step is. to set
up a committee consisting of manage-
ment, workers and possibly Government
representatives. In Britain, the Anglo-
American Committee on Productivity has
done a good job. It has sent teams (of
workers and managers) to the U.S. to
make on-the-spot studies of various in-
dustries.
The eminently practical reports pub-
lished by these teams on their return to
Britain have been very helpful to in-
dustry. Something practical like that
is needed in this country. American
industrialists are most helpful; the
visiting teams are able to visit many
plants and obtain full information on
relevant matters. Because of that —and
because the reports represent the con-
sidered views of several experienced men
—Miey are more valuable than the visits
of individuals.
Many seem to think that the solution
to Australia’s production problems lies
solely in large-scale use of incentive
systems. These do help, but something
more fundamental is needed. (Contrary
to popular belief there are relatively more
workers on incentive payments in Aus-
tralia than in the U.S.A.). Design of
plants, stores-control, elimination of waste
and the best way of doing each job are
some of the things which have to be
investigated. Methods-improvement can
be applied in any industry, but incentives
are not capable of universal application.
In any case, methods must be examined
and improved as a prelude to setting
standards for any incentive scheme.
A plea for such a committee has been
made by many businessmen, including
the Federal President of the Chambers of
Commerce. Probably the A.C.T.U.
would support the proposal. It remains
for the Government to take the initiative
in getting the parties together.—
Scrutator (Q.).
Liberals in Canberra
“The Liberal party’s greatest weakness
appears to be in its public relations”
(B. 3/12/’52). How right that is!
The party, apparently, does not believe
in telling the public any more than it
has to. Remember the 1951 Budget? Its
enormous increases in sales-tax were ex-
plained away as “necessary to the national
economy.” That was a splendid oppor-
tunity to explain thal “the higher prices
will cause you to buy less, bringing a
buyer’s market and bringing prices
down.” But no ; the opportunity was
ignored.
Similar tight-lipped silence has accom-
panied the suppression of Communism,
the improvement in labor relations, the
sale of A.W.A. and C.0.R., and the em-
ployment situation. The only explana-
tions given, and publicised, have been:
“We believe it is for the ultimate good
of the nation.”
The average Australian will not try to
work out why these actions are for the
ultimate good, nor should he have to. He
expects, and rightly so, that the Govern-
ment which he elected will provide him
with full and correct reasons for its
actions,
I don’t know if this silence is a matter
of policy or plain inability. Whatever
it is, it could well lose the next general
elections for the party which has accom-
plished so much good in such a short
time. — Mullum (N.S.W.).
Cost of Loans
The “Commonwealth Loans Organisa-
tion,” set up during the war to help fill
the loans, is still (11 years later) going
strong —another illustration of how this
type of thing, once established, refuses to
give up the ghost. Why should it while
the taxpayer continues to fork out?
Those famous quiz-sessions have been
dropped but other futile activity con-
tinues, such as the fixing of quotas for
every city, town and hamlet in Aus-
tralia. A booklet used to be printed,
and doubtless still is, showing the quotas
allotted, and variously-colored pennants
were awarded to “winning towns.”
Latest announcement is that a team of
30 “experts” are engaged on watching
changes in population and prosperity of
the different towns, etc. These are the
bright boys who, as a result of Farmer
Brown increasing his dairy herd by ten
cows, raise the quota for Snake Gully
from £5OO to £550. The rural village of
Swift’s Creek, in Gippsland, was allotted
a quota of £lOOO by the experts, yet in
the first week of the last loan it subscribed
£3500. Population of the hamlet is 200.
On the other hand, Prahran, given a
quota of £179,000, got nowhere near it.
So much for the experts!
It would be interesting to know just
what the Loans Organisation costs. —
Ceg (Vic.).
Mariners’ Meals
“E.J.P,” (B. 26/11/ ’52) may have
served under three flags, but he certainly
didn’t serve under a Red Ensign floating
from the stern of an English tramp-ship.
I served my apprenticeship in one of
the biggest tramp-shipping companies in
the world. Four years to complete my
indentures, wages £4O a year for the four
years, then two years as third mate. The
only decent meals I saw in those six years
were those I bought ashore myself or had
at the Seamen’s Mission. The victualling
allowance per day was around Is. 6d. per
man—you don’t live too well on that.
I carted my “donkey’s breakfast,”
together with pillows and blankets, from
ship to ship every time I was transferred.
We bought our own soap and matches—
that was so from the master down to the
galley-boy. As for getting things
laundered on ship, that’s just too funny.
I can see that “EJ.P.” has never cut up
a flour-bag to use as a collar, having
traded his best go-ashore shirt for Turkish
delight at Alexandria.
When I got to be third mate I had the
apprentices to do the worst of my wash-
ing, just as I’d done myself when serving
my time. A tin of cigarettes earned
like that was very handy.
All that was not so very long ago. I
came on to the Australian coast in 1938
and for the first time lived under decent
conditions aflpat.—X. M. N. (Tas.).
Science
The world’s leading scientists unite in
declaring that no line can be drawn in
research-work between pure science—
which is the pursuit of knowledge for its
own sake —and applied science, which
seeks to put discoveries to some practical
use.
Archceology used to be described as a
“useless” science; the people engaged
in it spent their lives in excavating the
ruins of ancient cities and in grubbing
about in old burial-grounds. “What
earthly good did it do?” was the cry of
its detractors.
Now the picture has been changed com-
pletely with the coming of genetics as
an aid to the breeding of better food-
plants. The geneticists need to have the
wild ancestors of our cultivated plants in
order to breed better strains; that might
have involved a world-wide search and
many years of work on the part of big
teams of botanists. It wasn’t necessary
because the archaeologists had done the
job. The study of food-remains on the
sites of long-vanished human settlements
is part of their work, and so the
geneticists, by studying the published
work of the archaeologists, knew just
where to look for the wild ancestors of
our cotton, maize, wheat, barley, etc.
A few years ago a State politician
objected to the size of the annual grant
to the museum ; he said it seemed an
awful lot of money to spend on “stuffing
animals and putting them in glass-cases.”
A member brought out a list of the items
of original research work done by one
member of the staff of that museum and
drew attention to the fact that
his years of study of insects had been
of immense value to the Department of
Agriculture. The annual grant to the
museum was passed without further oppo-
sition.—H. A. L. (S.A.).
Speed
Speed is the major factor in the majority
of road accidents, negligence, bad driv-
ing and drunkenness being only sub-
sidiary factors.
I can get from my place to the city
comfortably in 40 minutes. Some of
my friends do it in half an hour and
some in 20 minutes. What advantage
they derive from getting in to a job they
don’t like and home to a wife they pos-
sibly don’t like, either, 10 or 20 minutes
quicker than I do, giving themselves no
time to see anything on the way, 1 can’t
imagine.
A Melbourne expert’s analysis of road
accidents produced a demand for
governors to be fitted to all cars limiting
their pace to a safe figure. The
police are all in favor of it, probably
because their fastest cars are no match
for newer machines which can whizz
along the highways .at 100 m.p.h. and
over and which are frequently to be
found in the hands of reactionary youths
with plenty of money and no social sense
to speak of.
The only persons, as far as I can see,
who would be incommoded would be the
car-manufacturers and the engineers who
are as objectively interested in designing
faster and faster rockets for the road as
the nuclear physicists are in designing
bigger and better bombs. But I don’t
see why we should have to pay in our
lives and bodies for their pleasure.—
Feng-Shui (Vic.).
P.M.G. Costs
It is about time the public got its back
up about postal charges and demanded
an inquiry, particularly into what is
known as “Central Office, Treasury
Gardens, Melbourne,” where a staff of
nearly 900 is deemed necessary to direct
the department’s policy and keep abreast
of P.O. developments. It would be
enlightening to learn the total cost of
these 900 officials, both in actual salaries
and all their equipment, accommodation,
etc.
Before Federation, postal affairs in this
country were run, and run well, without
any central control whatever. Is a staff
of nearly 900 officers now necessary to
lay down the general policy to be
observed by postal executives in the States
and to see that that policy is reasonably
followed? Wouldn’t it be more sensibl
and economical to adopt a system o
yearly inspections by properly qualifier
officers of the work of each importan
branch in the States —engineering, tele
graph, telephone, etc.? It would then b
unnecessary to pour into h.q. elaborat
reports and recommendations upon a]
sorts of matters which, in pre-Federation
days, were left to State management.
The present far-too-centralised system
of control almost needs its own paper
mill. The quantity of paper that flow
day by day in and out of the show i
incredible, as is the storage-space where
it finally comes to rest. Eighty years ago
Sir Charles Todd and his officers in S.A
were responsible for the completion o:
the overland telegraph-line from Adelaide
to Darwin. The whole of the paper
involved wouldn’t be much more than
three or four feet high. If such a job hac
been done today the files of paper
on the subject would soar far above the
highest post-office tower in Australia.
The time is long overdue for a com-
mittee of one or two business minds anc
a couple of carefully chosen officers
capable of indicating why outside busi-
ness methods are not altogether applicable
to a Government undertaking, to make
a thorough investigation into the ways
and doings of what is known as “Centra]
Office.” — Kenton Hill (Tas.).
Television
T.V. should be introduced in Australia
as soon as possible. The present un-
certainty about it is of no benefit to
the industries connected with it, or likely
to be affected by it when it is introduced.
As for the projected organisation of
T.V.: The suggestions of Mr. Calwell
and others to “control” T.V. and make
it a Government monopoly must be re-
jected. I’m all in favor of a “national”
T.V. station (or stations) run by the Gov-
ernment through the A.B.C. or some
institution set up for the purpose, but
listeners must have a choice of pro-
gramme. Only private enterprise will de-
liberately cater for public demand and
give a wide variety of programme.
A certain amount of control will be
needed. Dirt, horror and violence will
be “out”—-that is in line with America’s
set-up. where a Federal Communications
Commission checks ail T.V. channels and
lays down codes of honor for T.V.
stations.
But apart from that there is no control
of T.V. in America. And the • result
generally is good. The verdict of most
authorities is that its advantages'far out-
weigh its dangers. As regards children,
where its effects were at first said to be
particularly harmful, most American edu-
cational experts believe that T.V. is
benefiting children without any “signi-
ficantly adverse effects.”
One authority has declared that “tele-
vision may prove as important in its
implications as the discovery of printing.”
And just as the printing of books —the
foundation of civilisation—is entrusted to
private enterprise, with many different
points of view represented, so must T.V.
be left to private enterprise.— Maros
(W.A.).
Hospital Charges
The elaborate method evolved to assist
hospital patients in paying accounts with
the aid of benefit organisations has failed
dismally. Weeks and sometimes months
elapse before claims are met, despite con-
tributions being payable in advance and
hospital fees becoming due weekly.
Forms and form-signing by doctors are
becoming rife.
A straightout subsidy to hospitals, or
a contributory scheme without the multi-
plicity of forms and the air of something
for nothing, is very much overdue
The charge for a single room at a Mel-
bourne intermediate hospital is approxi-
mately £25 weekly, from which Bs. a day,
or £2 16s. a week, is deducted on pay-
ment of account. Hospital benefits of
6d. weekly give a further rebate of 11s.
per day, or £3 17s. weekly—a total of
£6 135., leaving some £lB 10s. weekly
payable by the patient.
In 1939 the charge for the same room
in the same hospital was £5 ss. per week
with the basic wage at £4 Is.; now it is
£lB 10s, as against a basic wage of £ll
4s.
So the whole fanciful scheme actually
makes no saving to the overburdened tax-
payer as he makes his way dazedly
through the ramifications of the Welfare
State.— lago (Vic.).


Closer Settlement
I quoted Victorian soldier-settlement
results solely to refute “Dick Turpin’s”
assertion (B. 15/10/’52) that there is no
room for further land-settlement in settled
southern areas. And I quoted Britain
expressly to show that the use of
machinery does not postulate “the re-
tention of unusually-large farming pro-
perties.”
“D.T.” has overlooked the vital quali-
fication in my original argument —that
closer-settlement be limited to “high-
rainfall,” “high-fertility” belts. Australian
farming varies from almost English farm-
ing in Tasmania to tropical agriculture in
Queensland, and it is fruitless to advance
a plan for boosting production, other than
in the vaguest terms, unless that plan is
related to a specific type of agriculture.
Since C.5.1.R.0. survey has shown only
seven per cent, of our total area to be
suited by conditions of soil, climate and
topography for food-production, it
follows that most of our land is fit only
for large holdings. But it is wasteful to
employ extensive methods on the seven
per cent, of good land capable of intensive
production. If we are to take the matter
seriously, as do the Maorilanders, whose
exports per head of population are among
the world’s highest, waste is not to be
tolerated. Prudent men don’t waste a
scarce resource in the management of a
nation any more than in a business.
The best use of our good land involves
increased capital-investment per acre.
The maximum output from large hold-
ings is beyond the resources of owners
whose only capital is in the property
itself. Since low production in high-
rainfall, high-fertility belts is, in the last
resort, the result of capital-shortage,
metropolitan capital should be encouraged
to flow into rural industries. The A.M.P.
has given a lead in improving thousands
of acres on the Victorian-S.A. border. If,
coupled with expansion of now-neglected
soldier-settlement, banks, pastoral and
insurance companies were to buy large
properties in favored districts, improve
and resell them in economic units, there
would be profit for farmers, the com-
panies and the nation. —D. V. F. (Vic.).
The Egg Board
I can’t agree with “Jaybee’s” con-
demnation of the Egg Board (B.
26/11/ *52).
A year ago I established a couple of
hundred fowls on my orchard, and they
very soon had all kinds of diseases and
sickness. In my trouble I wrote to the
manager of the Egg Board, and very soon
one of their inspectors arrived. He
quickly sized things up and put me right,
and since then I have proved his advice
thoroughly sound.
From time to time I have asked the
board for advice or information and it
has always been forthcoming, and
quickly.
Without the Egg Board the “small”
men at least would be floundering in a
sea of difficulties. —E. L. J. (N.S.W.).
Bananas
Bananas are a high price now (B.
19/11/’52), and growers, even up here in
North Queensland, are surprised and
pleased at the prices they are getting.
But before raging at the farmer, how
about that formidable barrier between
the grower and the consumer? That is
largely where the high price goes.
What the grower considers a good price
per case is very different from what the
consumer pays.
At least twice in the last five years
large areas of bananas have been
destroyed simply because it didn’t pay
to harvest them. They were the farmer’s
loss. The same thing happened this year
in South Queensland with potatoes and
onions. At the same time potatoes have
never been below 6d. and onions sd. a
pound up here in the far north.
The grower has nothing whatever to
do with prices—what he receives or what
the public is charged. His produce is
packed and sent to market and he gets
a cheque in return —if he is lucky.
Practically all fruit- and vegetable-farmers
know what it is to get a bill for dumping
what was excellent produce when it
left them. Price-control on perishables
can never be effective. It only makes
retailers carry smaller stocks, and a
scarcity of any commodity—especially
fresh foods —will always send the price
up.
The farmer may have two or three
crop failures in succession and then have
one good crop. It happens to be in a
time of light supply and prices are high.
He is at once called profiteer and robber.
Bananas are a good crop this year,
and that means a lot of ground will be
put under bananas for next year. That
is already happening in this district.
Given the right conditions there will be
a glut of bananas next year and many
poor wretches won’t get the price of
their cases out of them. But all the in-
between men will —the agent, the whole-
saler, the retailer, the supplier of cases,
transport, the banana board, and the price
commissioner. They all have a say in it
and they make sure of their cut. —H. W. F.
(Q-).
“Ceg’s” grouch about the price of
bananas (B. 19 /11 / ’52) is justified, but
the grower can’t help it.
Returns are about 90s. a 701 b. case of
the best. It costs 20s. a case to put them
on the market, leaving the grower about
Is. a pound.
If “Ceg” paid 3s; a pound it seems that,
in bananas as well as other things, there
are too many people making money by
their wits. —E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
Official Selection?
If we really want to prove how clever
and advanced we are, here are a few sug-
gestions which may save social services
millions of pounds in the long run.
First a thorough physical and mental
check on intending newlyweds, with study
of their family medical and social
histories. Warn the couple of any proba-
bilities of idiot or diseased offspring from
the union. If they persist and the results
“Just the thing I've been looking for!”
are unfortunate—no help from the State.
If they are willing to part before harm is
done, give them guidance as to the type
of partner best suited for them.
Many useless alcoholics, idiots, morons
and misfits abound. These types should
have to be sterilised or otherwise safe-
guarded for their own sake as well as
that of society at large. The right to
reproduce willynilly must go. This right
belongs only to those of good pedigree,
health, intelligence and upbringing.
We all know what it takes to make a
Melbourne Cup winner or a prize Here-
ford bull. Have we the nous to apply a
few of those proven methods in the
interest of a yet nobler species? —K. H.
(N.S.W.).
Cost Accountants
“Icinit” (B. 8/10/’52) is right in urging
traders to sell below normal prices to
clear stocks. But he is off the beam in
his reference to overhead costs as
“nebulous.” These costs cannot be
ignored. Cost-accountants rightly stress
their importance, for they often exceed
the more apparent direct costs.
Wages are a classic example. The
workers’ pay is only the start. Workers’-
compensation insurance, payroll tax,
holiday pay, long-service leave, sick leave,
cost of “smoke-oh” and other breaks must
all be recovered from sale price if losses
are to be avoided. And what of adminis-
trative salaries and all the other expenses
associated with running a business? You
don’t need to be a cost-accountant to
realise that they are far from nebulous.
It is the job of management to fix
selling-prices in the light of current con-
ditions. If buyer-resistance means that
normal profit-margins cannot be obtained,
then some profit must be sacrificed. If
this does not result in sufficient sales it
may be wise to recover only part of the
total costs (this term includes overhead)
because something is better than nothing.
Just how far reductions can go will
depend on several things. It is the c.-a.
who can provide information to aid man-
agement in these decisions. He can show
which costs are fixed, regardless of out-
put, and which vary more or less in rela-
tion to production and/or sales. Cost-
accounting institutes have done a lot of
research on this problem of a flexible
approach to cost-finding.
The remedy for management is not to
gag the cost-accountant —as suggested by
“Icinit” —but to encourage him to pro-
vide reliable information as to the possible
effects of reduced prices. It is no co-
incidence that in America, where produc-
tivity is so great, cost-accounting is
widely developed.— One of Them (Q.).
Malaria and Repal.
“Rann” (B. 5/11 /’52) tells a strange
story about malaria and Repat. A blood-
film dries in a few minutes and is not
stained and examined microscopically
for malaria parasites before it has been
dried. There is no reason at all why
it cannot be kept for a few days before
it is stained, but don’t let the ants get
at it!
Atebrin is not the drug of choice for
relapsing malaria, and “Rann’s” whole
story is so different from the usual
fashion that one is left wondering. If it
is really possible that “Rann’s” doctor
thought a blood-film must be received
wet by the laboratory, he would have
to take the patient to the lab. and make
the film there; on the other hand, if he
has a secret process, why not publish it?
But in any case, do not be unfair and
unjust to Repat. — Abi Tonus (Papua).
A.B.C. Sporting Session
It is a pity that the A.B.C. spoils what
is otherwise a well-organised session by
the importance it places on its race-broad-
casts. Although Sydney and Melbourne
races are described by four metropolitan
commercial stations and practically every
country station, the A.B.C. finds it neces-
sary to spend six to seven minutes on
each race, usually 14 to 15 of them in an
afternoon. Then comes the reading of
prices for each meeting—another ten
minutes. That means about two hours
out of a broadcasting-time of five hours
are spent on a sport more than adequately
covered by the commercial stations.
If the broadcast were confined to a
description of the race it would not be
so bad, but most of the time is spent in
discussing the horses that were placed and
some of those that weren’t, and then a
slow reading of the starters and riders
for the next race.
The A.B.C. does try to cater for all
interests in sport. It would be unreason-
able to expect an unbroken description
of a representative cricket match while
there are other important fixtures ; yet
none of these is given a satisfactory
coverage because nothing must interfere
with race descriptions.
It is exasperating, when listening to
some contest which has reached a crucial
stage, to be told “We are now crossing
to Randwick.” Apparently the A.B.C.
did not learn its lesson from the time it
crossed to a race while Bradman was
about to reach his hundredth century. A
couple of years ago a Rugby grand-final
had five minutes to go and there was only
a difference of one point, yet the A.B.C.
spent those five minutes describing a
race. Recently the visiting American
women tennis-players were being led 6-5
by an Australian pair. Again the switch-
over came. Examples such as those
could be quoted at length—Don Tallon’s
century. South Australia’s chase after
N.S.W.’s score, and so on.
When the cricket or tennis is in Adel-
aide or Brisbane, we have further inter-
ruptions by the races in those cities as
well as those in Sydney and Melbourne.
It is surely time that the A.B.C. re-
viewed its policy on these broadcasts. If
the listener wants the races he has only
to turn the knob on the dial just a little
and he has the choice of a number of
stations all broadcasting the same race.
The listener who wants cricket or tennis
or any other sport must stay with the
A.B.C.— Rann (N.S.W.).
Cost of Vegetables
All the resolutions and letters to the
Press by housewives’ associations will not
lower vegetable prices until some sanity
comes into vegetable-marketing.
In Victoria there is one central market,
the Victoria Market in Melbourne. Vege-
tables are carried up to 200 miles from
the gardens to this market and carried
back by retailers. Cost of transport,
auctioning, market rent all come into it.
Instead of screaming about high costs,
why do not housewives’ associations pro-
duce some concrete scheme to localise
markets?
There are many sizeable cities and
towns along our highways, as there are
in Europe. Local markets in Europe
occupy the city squares. — Snips (Vic.).
If Evatt Wins
Whether the present Government has
done a good job or a bad one, the fact
remains that there could possibly be
a double-dissolution next year, before this
Government can gain more popularity.
If this happens, the next Government
will be Labor and we shall be well and
truly socialised and private enterprise can
kiss itself goodbye. However badly
one thinks he has been treated by the
present Government, it is pounds to
pence he’ll be treated a,good deal worse
by a succeeding Socialist Government.
This is worth consideration, before the
present Government is damned entirely.
—J.S.L. (Q.).
Free Medicine
That waste occurs in the free-medicine
scheme is not denied by me. For instance,
it seems usual for diabetics to receive
prescriptions ordering “Insulin, three
vials—repeat 12 times,” though mild
cases use the drug only occasionally.
“Wackford” (B. 5/11/ ’52) wants my
solution to the f.-m. set-up. Well, it
comes to this apparent paradox: “Let
free medicine be paid for.” The idea is
this: Let patients receiving pharmaceu-
tical benefits get receipts from chemists,
forward these to the tax department with
their annual returns, and have the money
so paid deducted from the tax to be paid.
There would have to be a scale. A tax-
payer on a net £2OOO should receive a
lesser deduction than the man on a net
£450.
The £2OOO man paying, say, £3O for
medicine would find it no great hardship,
whereas to the £450 man it might rep-
resent a very big thing.— Farmacist (Vic.).
Wild Pigs
In my opinion “Ann” makes one mis-
take about wild pigs (B. 15/10/’52). I
never knew of one that was worth eating
straight out of the bush. The flesh is
red, stringy, tainted and offensive to sight,
touch, taste and smell. Yet that same
pig fattened in a sty is indistinguishable
from what is called “dairy-fed pork.”
But that is beside the point with wild
pigs. What they are worth as pork is
as nothing to the damage they do. Re-
cently the Muttaburra district, in the
heart of the c.-Q. sheep-country, has
found that pigs have increased. At the
same time, and as a natural sequence,
lambings have fallen 50 per cent.
Pigs don’t live on air ; they demand
more than grass and water; they have
huge appetites; and they have the brain-
power to know when food is available.
The strong point about the pig and its
depredations is that it leaves no traces —
it cleans up the carcass so that not even
the smell remains. Bones are scattered,
and only a few wisps of wool stick to
grass-stems. — Grunter (Q.);


FROM THIN PLATE TO HEAVIEST STEEL PLATE.
STEEL, CAST IRON, ALUMINIUM, BRONZE, ETC.
THE MOBILCO WELDING GENERATOR is a heavy-duty
200 amp. D.C. welder with outstanding characteristics.
Designed for tractor or electric-motor drive. Built to the
highest engineering standards, it is simple to operate at
the amazing current rate of from 15 amps, up to 200
amps. The Mobilco Welder is so versatile that it is ideal
for use as a 32 volt home lighting and power plant.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOWI
CAST
MM:
■
I gfflß
m
%
MOBILCO
MOBILCO ELECTRODES
are available for all types
of work. The Mobilco
Contact Electrode is spe-
cially made for easy weld-
ing by unskilled operators.
WELDING GENERATOR
HEAVY
DUTY
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD. MITCHAM, VIC. PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS - • . - . . ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
One-man Water Scheme
“Outback”: One of the most
extraordinary one-man irrigation
schemes —the W. B. and R. B.
Cameron memorial water scheme
at Bullamon Plains, Thallon (Q.)
—was officially opened by
Queensland Lands Minister T.
A. Foley. It is a memorial to
the sons of Mr. and Mrs. K. B.
Cameron, who were killed while
serving with the R.A.A.F.
The scheme involved damming
the Moonie River in two places;
construction of a water-regulator
costing £lO,OOO ; excavating over
a million cubic yards of earth ;
linking 33 tanks of 3000 to
47,000cu.yds. capacity to be-
tween 40 and 50 miles of major
canals which criss-cross the
country in such a way that
eventually it should be possible
to flood-irrigate any section of
the 29,000-acre property.
Cameron refuses to disclose
the cost of the work, but at
current contract-rates of 3s. 6d.
per cu.yd., in addition to plant,
it would be worth over £200,000,
and some graziers are inclined
to doubt whether future returns
will justify this enormous capital
outlay.
Kenneth Beauchamp Cameron
went to Bullamon Plains in 1928
owning little more than the
clothes on his back, and when
much of the country from Goon-
diwindi to Thallon was almost
an impenetrable wall of prickly-
pear. When he began taking up
prickly-pear country and liberat-
ing the eggs of cactoblastis a
lot of people thought he was
mad, but by the time the cacto-
blastis had established its value
as a prickly-pear destroyer
Cameron held 219,000 acres in
19 leases.
Some of the area was resumed
by the Crown, but the Cameron
family was left with 100,000
acres —29,000 at Bullamon Plains
and the remainder in the Goon-
diwindi district. Handicapped by
lack of capital, K.B. repeatedly
built up his stock numbers only
to have his sheep wiped out by
drought, and he dreamed of
making Bullamon Plains
drought-proof. That day has
arrived.
Cameron admits, however, that
the project would never have
been possible but for the
abnormal price of wool, while
water-conservation expenditure,
being a taxable deduction, also
made it possible. It has yet to
be proved whether the im-
pounded water can be adequately
controlled, but Cameron claims
it can be, although the Moonie
River is considered one of the
most treacherous watercourses
in the State.
Merino Register
“R. Ney”: Revision of the
historical background of 1121
Australian Merino sheep studs
has been completed, and will be
published soon in the Australian
Stud Merino Flock Register.
The publication will be the most
complete record in existence of
the Commonwealth’s Merino
studs.
First volume of the register
was published in 1921. Since
then 1802 breeders had been
registered, but the number has
declined by 681 to 1121. Some
of the studs are more than 100
years old. The register will
contain information about stud-
ownership changes and altera-
tions in breeding-lines by some
stud-owners. New South Wales,
with 470, has the largest number
of Merino studs. Western Aus-
tralia follows with 331, South
Australia 176, Victoria 83 and
Queensland 41.
Flowering Eucalypts
“Breck”: There are many
eucalypts unknown to the general
public which are beautiful, and
splendid sources of honey. The
bushy Yate- or Lehmann’s-gum
(E. lehmannii ) is noted for
bottle-green flowers that grow
in fused clusters and for seed-
nuts up to 4in. across. It’s a
fine ornamental for gardens and
parks and a heavy yielder of
nectar.
Though it rarely exceeds 20ft.,
the large-fruited mallee (E. pyri-
formis) is a striking tree in blos-
som. Flowers measuring 4in.
across are sometimes green and
sometimes red with golden
anthers. Found in both South
and West Australia, it is one of
the best sources of nectar and
pollen. It has one failing:
inability to stand severe frosts.
The marri (E. calophylla ) does
not always run true to color, its
large flowers changing from red
and pink to white. A tree of the
gravelly soils, it frequently drips
with nectar from February to
March.
One of the most drought-
resistant of the" gums is the
merrit (E. flocktonice). Its quaint
buds and capsules combine to
make it an attractive species. It,
too, is a generous producer of
both honey and pollen.
Popular for its flowers, which
vary from white to rosy red, its
silvery foliage and rugged trunk,
the mugga or red ironbark ( E .
sideroxylon ) has been planted in
thousands along the streets of
N.S.W., Victorian and South
Australian towns. It yields
honey of fine quality, though
not in heavy quantities.
Other eucalypts which help the
landscape and the bees when
grown in numbers include the
“I take a swig o' fly-spray once in a while an' just
breathe on ’em.”
almost ever - blooming, pink-
flowered gungurru (E. ccesia), the
pink-flowered coral gum (E.
tor quota) and the yellow-
flowered tall sand mallee (E.
eremophila ).
—-
Water tor Bees
: Fa r rß fiuU , in h Se W h e :n h : r ’
brood-raising and to maintain
humidity in the hive to keep the
brood-food moist.
When water is not close at
hand, and the bees have to make
lengthy and repeated flights for
it, there’s a big wastage of time
and energy, and honey output is
reduced
Some time ago an apiarist
with 240 colonies moved on to
a eucalypt-flow dripping nectar,
Water was miles distant, so to
save the bees’ time it was carted
to drinking-troughs. Allowing
for evaporation, intake by the
bees averaged 10 601 b. tins of
liquid a day. ’
r-p, , , w a nnnAot'rp
The la J e W. A. _ Goodacre,
on the bees water prevented
SoT/was fpXjk sanl leg
The bees then drink the r 1
from the sand. Bees like their
water fresh.
Pasture Fertilisers
i .
“Springvale”: Here in south-
east Victoria the soil is generally
deficient in phosphates. Top-
dressing of pasture-land with
superphosphate not only rectifies
the deficiency but stimulates
subterranean-clover, thus over-
coming any nitrogen deficiency
in the soil.
Other major elements of plant-
nutrition are potash salts, nitro-
genous compounds and occa-
sionally lime. The problem is to
apply them at the right times.
In districts where the rainfall is
sufficient to enable perennial
species capable of making goo
vigorous
growth follows application of
these dements. reD eated
Where ramfa is: low repea ed
topdressing will pring
annuls but there is a dange?
that this will choke out the
tftai mis w t w :ii
degenerate into fwe?d“ mass of
annual grasses. To remedy this
the land should be ploughed and
rrnnned to reduce top-soil fer-
tility P ; or, alternatively! establish
a crop of Phalaris tuberosa,
which is more adaptable to drier
climates.
Potash deficiencies are indi-
cated when dressings of super.
fail to bring adequate response
from pastures. The clovers
weaken, may even die out, and
grasses like sweet vernal and
Yorkshire fog - grass become
prominent. Potash dressings of
at least lewt. per acre are then
necessary to restore chemical
balance.
Nitrogenous fertilisers are
seldom applied to Victorian pas-
tures. They can give marked
increases in growth, but usually
these responses are short-lived.
The main drawback against them
is the adverse effect on .pasture
composition, especially in mixed
pastures; the clover decreases in
proportion, so there is a nitrogen
deficiency despite the application
of nitrogen in dressings.
Dingo Bonus
“Chappie”: A conference,
representative of West and South
Australia, N. S. Wales, Queens-
land and the Northern Territory,
is to be held in Brisbane In
February or March to discuss a
uniform bonus for dingoes. The
present bonus in all the States
and N.T., except N.S.W., is £l,
and Queensland graziers are
pressing for a bonus of £2 at
least.
In N.S.W, the bonus is any-
thing up to £3, but netting
fences will pro.tect that State
from the dingo, whereas Queens-
land last financial year paid for
about 45,000 dingo scalps, so
the amount of bonus paid is a
matter for careful consideration.
The Co-ordinating Board,
which handles animal and vege-
table pests in Queensland, is
quite agreeable to an increase to
£2 per scalp provided the States
bordering on Queensland will
agree to a similar increase; the
reason for this is obvious.
Queensland graziers worried
with dingoes have, however,
concluded that in view of the
inflated prices ruling today a
bonus of £1 will not attract the
wholehearted attention of dog-
gers, station-workers, carriers,
etc., necessary if the dingo, is
to be kept under control until
such time as dingo-barrier fences
have become an accomplished
fact.
Linseed in N.S.W.
“Ben C.”: Linseed production
in north-west New South Wales
could be a serious competitor to
wheat, says N.S.W. cereal expert
T. E. Kitamura. Kitamura
recently judged 24 linseed crops
in the R.A.S. north-west cham-
pionship and two in the Murrum-
bidgee irrigation districts.
In the irrigation areas linseed
hasn’t made a widespread
advance because of farmers
preference for irrigated pastures,
oats and fat-lamb raising.
Winners: North-west, Leo
Cosh, Karoola Pastoral Co.,
PallamaUawa (Walsh), estimated


E
.OPES
of every type
and
size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3j ins.,
6§ x 3jH&nd 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
tre
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [jj;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31 /6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane.
Queensland.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
&
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
t
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile* sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia HissolVenator Hist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Coljips St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co.,v Mercantile Bank Chambers,
(taffies Place.
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
“PHENOVIS”
; The outstanding Worm Remedy
WATCH FOR
OUR
NEXT
ADVERTISEMENT
yield 26 bushels an. acre; L.
Kirkby, Boggabri (Walsh), 20
bushels ; P. B. Langdale, Coona-
barabran (Walsh), 18 bushels.
Irrigated areas, W. Fogarty,
Twin Pine, Finley (Walsh), 18
bushels ; Braithwaite and Tooth,
Whitton (Walsh), 15 bushels.
Kitamura said that although
Walsh variety was introduced by
the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture as long ago as 1928 and
had a high resistance to rust, its
susceptibility to pasmo disease
made it imperative that a sub-
stitute variety with the field
ability to produce heavier yields
should be supplied to farmers.
Unfil recently no introductions
have performed as well as Walsh,
but at the present time the
department has under test
Canadian varieties which may be
of value to growers. The depart-
ment also has high hopes of
crossbreds now under test.
In the irrigation areas the
failure of linseed to appeal to
farmers could to a large extent
be attributed to the extremely
high incidence of pasmo on
irrigated Walsh linseed. Once
this disease is mastered linseed
will find its true place in a rota-
tion suitable to irrigation
farmers.
In the drier red-soil wheat-
sheep areas there is a place for
linseed because of the value of
its high protein substance.
Linseed should be among the
crops grown and stored for
stock, particularly in these times
of acute shortages of protein
concentrates.
Pest-control
“C.S.”: A small edition of the
big fogging machines, which are
aimed to do mobs of sheep and
so forth and cost £7OO or £BOO
and need a trained operator to
manage, was bound to come. It
seems it has,
A small machine would have
to be portable, easily-worked,
fireproof and cheap both to buy
and operate. Saw a “mock-up”
of one tried in the glasshouses at
Sydney Botanic Gardens. It was
no bigger than a butter-box (the
finished model will be even
smaller), used normal electricity
for its power and in a few
minutes filled the glasshouses
with insect-destroying fog.
Qantas became interested.
Nobody knows the job an inter-
national air-service has in keep-
ing wogs and pests out of the
country. Qantas has long been
using fog on its big Constella-
tions, having found it ito be
better than spraying, and has
been hiring one of the big
machines for the job. A demon-
stration with the small model on
a Constellation was as satis-
factory as that in the glasshouse.
The small machine, when
available, is full of possibilities
for land-men. Dairies, wool-
sheds, homesteads, storehouses,
grain - bins, rabbit - burrows —
nothing will be beyond it. And
for the towns generally halls,
schools, picture-shows, houses
and so forth can be quickly and
cheaply—er—de-pest-infested.
Useful Weeds
“Milko”; I had a cultivation
paddock in which milk-thistles
grew profusely, beside a road.
Many travellers passed remarks
about my farming which should
have made me hang my head. I
didn’t. I had an idea I knew
what I was doing. I was spelling
that paddock; the thistles
reckoned the spell suited them—
they were feet high, thick,
flowering profusely.
The time came, as it
always does with a dairy
herd, when, at the turn of
the season, the cows had
to shed their winter coats. That
change of clothing is a matter
not given the attention it de-
serves by stockmen. Many an
animal needs aid to do the job
without strain on itself. It was
to give that aid that I let my
paddock grow milk-thistles. As
soon as my cows became a bit
ragged, hair hanging in tufts in-
stead of shedding freely, I put
them on the thistles.
They wolfed the thistles. They
belched and bellowed, romped
and played when I brought them
out for the evening milking. The
cows shed their coats without
trouble; they never lost pro-
duction ; they took a new coat
and carried on in good style be-
cause I was careless enough to
let my land run to weeds to pro-
vide them with a natural laxative
just when they needed it most.
Local Weather Forecasts
“Rooster”: The Weather
Bureau, relying on scattered and
infrequent reports, can’t always
be right. With some knowledge
of cloud-formations and their
significance, together with ob-
servations of wind force and
direction, barometric readings
and variations in humidity, it’s
possible to check on the W.B. to
see if its forecast can apply to
your own area.
The first sign of an approach-
ing depression (low-pressure sys-
tem) will be high-altitude cirrus
clouds. These will give way to
cirro-stratus, which in turn will
give place to alto-stratus, fol-
lowed by nimbo-stratus —and
rain. During this period the
barometric pressure falls steadily.
Visibility will be good until the
rain arrives.
These “lows” are nearly
always (particularly over vast
land masses) preceded by rising
temperatures and wind-changes
—sudden or gradual. This is the
warm front, often bringing inter-
mittent rain and drizzle, with
poor visibility. During hot
summer months the warm front
sweeps in with great force and
the humidity rises rapidly.
During this period the cloud will
change to stratus or strato-
cumulus.
As the cold front approaches
alto-stratus and alto-cumulus,
and then heavy cumulo-nimbus,
will appear. Rain may fall be-
fore the change is complete. If
this happens temperatures fall
during the rain, the air being
cooled by evaporation as the
rain falls through it.
In Australia, particularly
during summer, the cold fronts
arrive suddenly, temperatures
take a nosedive, the wind
swings and heavy squalls may
occur.
There may, however, be indi-
vidual depressions which deviate
from this description. In par-
ticular, a cold front is sometimes
a double front, and occasionally
subsidiary fronts form within
the polar air. Again, at the apex
of the warm sector, near the
centre of the depression, there
may be no interval between the
passage of the rain-belts associ-
ated with the warm and cold
fronts, and steady rain may per-
sist for long intervals.
Watch for changes in cloud-
formation, temperatures and
barometer readings. Sudden
changes in wind nearly always
precede heavy rain.
Sawdust as Litter
“Humus”: My experiments
in housing fowls on steep hill-
sides have shown the way to
cheaper litter costs and good
humus production.
The slope of the hill is the
shed floor on which sawdust is
dumped. The hens soon scratch
it level in their search for
insects. Add further dumpings
until desired depth of litter is
reached.
In my case the sheds are 10ft.
deep and the sawdust is built
up to a depth of 12in. above the
higher level of the slope.
At intervals of three or four
weeks the whole of the litter is
leaped up in the shed and, if dry,
watered as one would a compost-
heap. Heat generated is suffi-
cient to destroy harmful organ-
isms.
Scratching hens soon make all
level once more.
The addition of lime and
super and, when available,
horse- and cow-manure en-
hances the value of the humus
as a fertiliser.
Sawdust-litter 12 months old
treated like this is suitable for
broadcasting on pasture.
Hints for the Farm! I
“M.”: AH vine vegetables ex-
cept melons can be picked for
use at any stage of growth, but
the keeping sorts should be
allowed to. reach j fuljl maturity.
These are left on the vine until
it dries off. Cut the fruit off
with an inch or so of stem
attached. If it is pulled off
decay will set in.
“Spes”: Flax crops stunted
by drought or damaged by wind
or rain have been regarded as a
loss, but now C.S.I.R.O. scien-
tists have proved that mechani-
cal harvesting, water-retting in
the baled state and in binder-cut
sheaves will result in a good
profit. The “useless” crops now
yield treated seed, scrutched
fibre and tow, with a good profit
after the additional labor cost.
“Big Billy”: Baits are the best
way to get rid of snails. Use a
mixture of lib. of calcium arsen-
ate or 5oz. of metaldehyde and
161b. of bran with enough water
to make a crumbly mixture.
“Hux”: Liquid-manure for
salad crops is made of about a
pound of fresh animal manure
soaked in a gallon of water.
Drain the liquor off and pour it
on neat. Another good liquid-
manure can be made by mixing
2oz. of sulphate of ammonia
with 4gal. of water.
“C.A.A.”: Cutting a crop at
the right time for hay is all-
important. Leave lucerne till the
stalks get hard, oats until the
grain is milky and cut vetches
while pods are still green. Cut
mixed clover and grass pastures
when the main grass is coming
into flower. Leave pure clover-
stands until the clover is in ful
flower.
“Billjim”; Now is the time to
start the deep-litter system with
your poultry. Main essentials
are adequate floor-space (about
4sq.ft. per bird), watertight
roofs, good guttering and a
thorough initial clean-up and
spray to eradicate vermin. These
measures will allow litter to
build up under dry conditions.
“H.C.”: Sheep biting and
rubbing their dew-claws may be
worried with foot-lice. Hind-
legs are more often affected than
front; in heavy infestations the
lice may cover the legs above
the dew-claws and the skin of
the udder and the scrotum.
Place the animal in foot-baths
of derris-root preparations for
five to eight minutes. Repeat
every 14 days till the feet are
clean; one bath is not enough,
“R.”: Prominent Southdown
sheepbreeder E. T. Simpson, of
Newbury Farm, Sutton Forest,
has been elected president of a
newly-formed N.S.W. associa-
tion of breeders of Southdowns.
There are 50 registered South-
down studs in N.S.W.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Recent observations seem to suggest that the transfer
to the longer main cycle is now slowly taking place. This
would repeat the seasons of the ’eighties of last century,
which were not favorable at first, but ultimately led to a
series of the wettest years in our history.
However, the current study of the cycles suggest rains
about Christmas-time. There are now (16/12/’52) some
new sunspots visible, but so far they have not reached the
normal position of high activity; the group reported earlier
has almost completely faded out.


Ralph Rashleigh, Tucker has
made it clear that Darling was
the Governor at the time (p. 71,
popular edition). Ralph Rash-
leigh must therefore have
arrived, not in 1814 (when Mac-
quarie was Governor), as Mr.
Ellis supposes, but after Decem-
ber, 1825.
In speaking disparagingly of
the appearance of the town of
Sydney in February, 1827,
Tucker confines his remarks to
“The Rocks” and to “most” of
the dwellings. He takes the pub-
lic edifices for granted, and ob-
serves that there were at least
“half a dozen good private build-
ings in the town.” He also
notices the fort “at the entrance
to Sydney Cove,” which was cer-
tainly not there in 1814, when
Greenway arrived.
Mr. Ellis has missed the state-
ment in Ralph Rashleigh that
the prisoners, on landing “near
Fort Macquarie” from the Mag-
net, proceeded through the
Domain up to Hyde Park
Barracks. Note also page 72,
popular edition. These barracks
were not in existence when
Green way arrived. Yet Mr.
Ellis says Ralph Rashleigh
landed with Greenway’s eyes!
Mr, Ellis says that the author
of Ralph Rashleigh “deprecates
criticism of the severe Gover-
nor Darling.” On the contrary,
the author’s hero “loudly des-
cants upon his adopted country’s
wrongs under the iron sway of
Darling.,” and it is this descant
that begins his career as a
hardly-treated prisoner. There
is no evidence in Ralph Rash-
leigh to 1 show that Tucker had
any love for Darling.
In Ralph Rashleigh, Chapter
XVI (p. 133, popular edition;
pp. 142-45, limited edition)
Tucker was definitely recounting
an incident that occurred later
than 1826, viz., the “rebellion
of the gentle dames at the
Female Factory” of Parramatta.
My footnotes in the limited
edition establish this to the hilt.
Tucker’s informant was un-
doubtedly the woman from
whom he drew Jane Bates. The
reference to “Hominy Tom” be-
gins with the highly significant
words “Only a short time be-
fore this period.....” It is ob-
viously a reported incident,
linked up by Tucker with Jane
Bates’s,story, but not connected
with the main thread of Ralph’s
career.
Mr. Ellis also seems to have
overlooked a most material part
of the complete quotation re-
ferring to Liverpool (see pars.
3,4, p. 118, popular edition).
In short, the author obviously
reached Sydney in the summer
of 1826-27.
V
In my notes on pages 126, 127
(limited edition) I give Tucker
credit for the ability any novelist
possesses to utilise facts reported
to him by others. No literary
critic would deny Tucker free-
dom to juxtapose places, re-
arrange times, marshal facts to
suit his narrative and convert
oral or written records to his
artistic purpose.
Defoe’s power to pass off fic-
tion as an authentic eyewitness
record in A Journal of the
Plague Year (1722) deceived so
good a judge as Lord Chatham.
Tucker’s only fault has been that
his slighter native genius has not
been sufficient to deceive Mr,
Ellis into believing that his piece
of fiction is a true history. I
have never conceived it to be
history undefiled, but have pro-
claimed it a creative work, writ-
ten with licence to gather its
materials from any reasonable
quarter.
VI
Again:
1. Mr. Ellis has drawn a wrong
conclusion from the evidence of
Tucker’s hazy knowledge of the
exact lay of the land at the
mouth of the Hunter River (see
p. xliv, Introduction, and com-
pare with par. 5, p. 252, of the
text of Ralph Rashleigh, limited
edition, or par. 2, p. 233, popu-
lar edition). See also Ellis,
Greenway, pp. 137-39.
2. He has erroneously raised
the inference that no bushrangers
operated in the county of Cum-
berland and the neighboring
counties after 1826 (see foot-
note 1, p. 219, limited edition).
I add six corrective observations
(where 16 could be presented):
(«) The bushrangers of Chap-
ters XVIII-XXII do not confine
their activities to the Campbell-
town area.
(b) There. is. nothing in the
narrative to warrant the surmise
that John Oxley’s house, or any
other historical person’s house,
was the original of the Campbell-
town lock-up. The lock-up that
is burned is eight miles from
Arlack’s hut (see footnote 2, p.
157, limited edition), not eight
miles from Campbelltown.
(c) In a dispatch of October 5,
1830, Governor Darling wrote
that “the Colony has been a
good deal disturbed of late by
‘Bushrangers,’ who have put on
a more formidable appearance
than heretofore. In the earlier
part of the year, they infested
the Roads about Parramatta and
Committed Several Acts of Out-
rage even in the Neighbourhood
of Sydney.” In the same
dispatch Darling speaks of bush-
rangers operating in'the Bathurst
district and of a skirmish between
them and the mounted police.
In Ralph Rashleigh Bathurst is
specifically mentioned (see p. 219,
limited edition).
id) Mr. Ellis, in pushing inci-
dents of the narrative back five
or six years, has not observed
that those of Chapters XXXI
and XXXII of Ralph Rashleigh
belong between the years 1836-
1844, and cannot possibly be
placed outside those years. The
reference to Major Fireplace
made by Foxley (p. 187, popular-
edition) belongs more fitly to
1830 than to 1825. Major Fire-
place himself does not appear in
the story, as he surely would have
done if Mr. Ellis’s suggestions
had any substance in them.
( e ) In endeavoring to identify
the members of Foxley’s gang,
Mr. Ellis adopts first a negative,
then a positive, attitude. Foxley,
the leadpr, the outstanding
character, a most striking villain,
cannot be identified ; yet one of
the least prominent of the gang,
the hangdog Smith, is discovered
to have some mysterious affilia-
tion with a respectable building
contractor, whose name happens
to be Smith. If an original must
be found for McCoy, he must
be found elsewhere than under
the desk of the Colonial Sec-
retary,
(f) The main incidents of
Ralph Rashleigh are faithfully
placed in their respective years
on pp. xvii-xviii. Introduction,
limited edition.
3/ Proper emphasis has not
been placed upon the fact that
Tucker gained architectural and
draughting experience with
Mortimer William Lewis for two
years, with Lieutenant-Colonel
Barney for a shorter period, and
with the Royal Engineer Depart-
ment at Port Macquarie. It was
Lewis’s interest in the comple-
tion of old Saint Mary’s
(1838-40) that gave rise to “The
Spectre’s” garbled remarks half
a century later. There is no
evidence that Alexander Burnett
was ever Greenway’s associate.
But Lewis, Burnett and Tucker
affected each other’s company.
4. I refute the assertion that
the main events of Ralph Rash-
leigh belong before 1825. On
the contrary, it is the Newcastle
episode only of the main events
which belongs to any period be-
fore 1825, and this is fictitiously
placed in a narrative which fob
lows events of 1827-30 and re-
sumes with others beginning
about 1833 and ending naturally
in 1844. The Newcastle episode
is thus seen to be an interlude
put in by novelist’s licence.
What more natural than for
Tucker to have it in 1845 from
old lags transferred from New-
castle to Port Macquarie in
1823? Furthermore, Tucker,
writing in 1845-46, correctly
places the Newcastle horrors at
“about twenty years since” —an
approximation the historian will
readily allow Tucker when he
realises that it would lead
Green way back to 1815-17, long
before Morisset’s time (see foot-
notes 3-9, 1, pp. 231-37, limited
edition).
5. Mr. Ellis is surely in error
in ascribing prescience to Tucker
by having him quote from the
Revised Version of the Bible,’
first published in 1885.
6. Does not Mr. Ellis con-
found a cowan with a free-
mason? He is mistaken in think-
. ing that Tucker “habitually uses
Masonic phrases and references,”
There are no genuine Masonic
phrases in Ralph Rashleigh.
7. There is no warrant for
denying literary ability to any
who depart from conventional
standards of morality.
VII
I now quote from an affidavit
of December 10, 1952, to show
that James Tucker’s literary
activities did not cease with the
works already mentioned;
I, Charles Edwin Dick, of Port
Macquarie, retired • . . say as fol-
lows :
1. That I am seventy-seven years
. of age.
2. That I have lived at Port Mac-
quarie since the age of five.
3. That at the age of fourteen or
fifteen I knew and was known to an
aged woman named Sarah Widder-
son who informed me and I verily
believed to be an ex-convict.
4. That at that time she put into
my bands a manuscript composed of
many foolscap pages the said pages
being sewn together to make a hand-
written book about an inch in thick-
ness.
5. That when handing the manu-
script to me Sarah Widderson made
sundry observations concerning it
which I verily believe, to wit:
(a) That the said manuscript had
been written by one James
Tucker some forty years
earlier;
(b) That the same James Tucker
was a convict at Port Mac-
quarie known to her at that
time;
(c) That James Tucker was in her
own words “highly educated—
a lovable personality who used
to write all night and sleep all
day—a clever ocular weather
' prophet”;
(d) That James Tucker had been
a clerk in the Government
store.
6. That I read the manuscript and
found it' to consist of two stories
told as life histories.
7. That these two stories were first
“The Fife History of Tearless
Frederick Fraser” and secondly “The
life of -Mary Nailer.” ( v
8. That I remember at this present
time many of the events and inci-
dents related in those life histories.
9. That they were based on the
manner of lives of the male and the
female convicts at Fort Macquarie
respectively. r-V
vin *! rgj
In view of the weight of con-
vincing evidence and; argument
now presented, I have-no hesita-
tion whatever in , asking : Mr.
Ellis to agree that a prima facie
case has not been established
against James Tucker. Mr.
Ellis, therefore, may decide, on
more mature thought, to with-
draw his belated championship
of Greenway as a creative
writer. ■ ; ;
grasped my fingers as though he
did not want me to do it.”
The Korean girls were looking
at me, looking at the baby, and
giggling among themselves. I
quickly grabbed Song, who was
peering oyer .their heads (I'd
quite forgotten him), shook him
vigorously by the hand, and said
loudly and slowly: ‘.‘That’s a
fine boy you have there, Song.”
I’ll swear there was a sigh of
disappointment from the girls.
I suppose all girls of that age,
even. Koreans, are romantics at
heart. < : .
I slept that night, or what was
left of it, on an ambulance-
stretcher, alongside the doctor,
the two Korean fighter pilots,
the wounded man, and the
orderly. Before turning in we
drank tea, ate British ration
salmon and biscuits, listening
now and then to the faint cry of
babies and the murmur of
women’s voices on the other side
of the plywood partition.
I was told later that Doc Kay
had lost his wife and two
children, killed by the Reds.
I went to sleep thinking of
young Song protesting about his
umbilical-cord. Another Korean
baby had been born to fulfil his
destiny. And that same night
probably hundreds more had
already fulfilled theirs, on the
roadsides, in paddyfields, as the
flood of refugees poured slowly
southward.
A million Korean women
would have walked through the
snow that night. How many of
them, how many babies, perished
in the agonies of cold and hunger
and fatigue?
I looked at my watch. It
was the morning of Christmas
Eve, 1950. I had an idea this
had happened before, a long
time ago.
THE EXPLORER: ESPIRITU SANTO
The disposition to discover, rather than accept
known land, searched threadbare, wrinkled,
what cloth remains smoothed into decent contours
by generations of the seemliest behavior.
I have no time, no space to spare: for me
what little is left to discover before
my kind set up backyards in the wilderness;
blister the savage valley and hill
with fire and shelter. The wilderness captured,
shrewdly observed as a populous place.
Beyond the mountains lurk the western slopes,
hill muttering to hill, the conspiracy of rivers.
This is the black man’s unexplored pavilion,
roofed by exceptional stars, ineluctable sun;
a natural derelict no white man has re-taken
from its first maker, the South Pacific.
This is my desire assuaged—-forgotten
for smoky horizons: blue hills; the shimmer
at the plain’s lip: the promised, ocean.
Duration and space are the spinners of fable.
Long ago . . . unreturning . . . no traces found . . .
a bird migrating to unnatural climate . . .
Shall I become a legendary song,
a far note explained by comparison
on this alien, opposite continent?—
a high ascension, an incredible music
told as a tale to centuries of children
under the banksia and eucalypt?
Neither the seared voice of the phoenix,
nor the secret bellbird’s treble chime,
but the lark rejected that belongs to distance.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 205
Across.
I—American symbol to scatter a
golfing achievement after the
banquet. (11)
6 —Bark horse in a tree. (3)
B—Old English with women only,
and I have a morbid love of the
grape. (9)
10 — Alice confuses this girl. (5)
11 — Claw offers thanks to Mr.
Chaney. (5) _
12— Vessel hops with an unskilled
performer. (4-3)
14 —Can reverse a louse’s egg. (3)
16—The accusative aim with a matter
in which Sherlock Holmes seeks
to find the accusabie. (9, 4)
20— Hunted description of Ted is
barbarian. (3)
21 — A crane-fly has a couple of body-
line outfielders to pop. (5-4-4)
25 Local bird is moved in French.
(3)
26 Ape a prelate. (7)
28— Note a little drop., (5)
29 Investment. (5)
30— Mother’s warbler finishes off an
English playwright. (9) ■
31— Confuse a cowboy in 1009. (3)
32 A place for instruction in the art
of assisting boxers is not quite
tiptop. (6, 5)
Down.
1— Out first ball, and Edward is
understaffed with Pitman and the
editor. (11)
2 Ordinal alterations for Handel’s
opera. (7)
3 Egyptian god takes bullets and
shells to the north. (5)
4 Young salmon or a solemn fish
of another kind is paving with
sand and small pebbles. (9)
5 Former Marxist father in France
who used to be M.C. in the
variety show. (2-7)
6 Persona! unpleasantness over the
diary upset an Italian city. (7)
7 No contradiction in this Vic-
torian town. (3)
9—Cop. (3)
13 —Street measure with one to spoils
is the star of the sea. (6, 5)
15—Exists in small islands. (2)
17 — Girl jockeys who please them-
selves with other people’s cars?
(3-6)
18 — Although comical he changes the
bilious-blooded. (9)
19— Barrel. (3)
22 —Another forrp of 15 in the morn-
ing. (2)
23 —Double-nine enemy of Clive. (7)
24—State horse and the sungod
vermicide. (7)
27 — European city names opposite
directions. (5)
28 — Mother and I spend 31 days in
France. (3)
29 — Mum’s upset by this boy. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 204


Serial view of 3
million-gallon dam
under construction
on Hastings
Peering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area,
with windmill bore,
300,000 - gallon
turkey-nest tank,
house site, cattle
troughs, etc. Note
the size of the
frees.
A
hMwb:
WATER AND WORK-POWER DEVELOPING AUSTRALIA’S
FOOF)
mm
i - » r '> ' _
8*
POTENTIAL
if'*
mmhpmhhh
■pi*
/ T.*
, * i
I
./■H
'■■ \<kL/} ;
liSill^*
■
SpS
m
m
tMh&S
® ALICE SPRINGS]
"M
iMiipfci;
m
‘‘BEEF ROADS” • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS DEEDING
northern research reserves
HASTINGS PEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED. Alice Springs and Darwin. N.T.
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs. Northern Territory.
Lae New Guinea.
" " " ", Head Office: William Street, Sydney. M0412 (33 lines).
"Ccsterpt! lor"
Tractor with
Bulldozer and
Scraper, digging
out a 3 million'
gallon dam.
Hastings Peering
Northern Research
Reserves. An
actual insight into
the magnitude of
this task.
Close -up of big
earth - moving
machines and
"Caterpillar"
Tractors engaged
on dam construc-
tion. Hastings
Peering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area.
Water conserva-
tion and irrigation
will turn now
barren areas into
a beef-producing
country.
"Beef from our North" has
always appealed to Mr. H.
Hastings Peering as an urgent
national necessity, for the
twin-objects of feeding our
growing population and
supplying our defence forces.
Beef is a vital food and a vital
munition. "Breed Beef!" has
long been Mr. Peering’s
dictum.
Photos at left show activities
on the Hastings Peering
Northern Research Reserves
in the Alice Springs area,
which cover more than 2,600
square miles of territory.
On this property dams are
being sunk, roads are being
built, pasture protection and
fodder conservation are being
developed, and other activi-
ties are being promoted under
expert control. The ultimate
objective is to greatly
increase Australia's beef
production by introducing the
best beef cattld on well-
watered pasture areas.
Already notable progress has
been made and forward work
is being continuously pushed
ahead on well-organised plans.


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W, F
QUEENSLAND; Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W, 5
VICTORIA: Elder Smith & Co. Ltd., Bourke
St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide. *
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd..
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
ffihis enure page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT- Virtue LIMITED
December
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1952
PATENT MEDICINE OPENED
WAY TO MODERN LIVING
Mr. Kiers and His Rock Oil
Showed Us How
Oil - . . the wonder fluid which gives us light, power, and lubrication for
our machines ... is taken very much for granted these days. But it
was a top luxury only 100-odd years ago.
In the countries where natural oil was found at
ground level, the locals used it for lighting
and lubrication. Where the natural oil wasn’t
obvious, they had to be content with tallow
and whale oil.
In England, about the middle of the 19th
century, oil was at a premium. The growing
population, and the hundreds of newly opened
factories needed it badly. VTaling was boom-
ing, and tallow was almost unprocurable. The
oil was costing up to 8/- a gallon.
The situation was getting desperate, when a
Scotsman, James Young, discovered a way of
extracting natural oil from coal. He built a
small refinery, and found he could make oil as
cheaply as 1/6 a gallon. This eased the situa-
tion, but by no means solved it.
\ oung opened 13 7 refineries throughout the
World, and shipped oil-bearing English coal to
them. But, it was still an expensive way of
doing it, and people everywhere sought new
ways of getting the precious fluid.
Progress was held up for the want of oil, until
one day in 1848, an American, Samuel Kiers,
was drilling for salt water on the banks of a
river. To his dismay he struck a gusher of oil
. . . instead of the salt water he wanted.
Neither Kiers, nor his friends, woke up to just
what it was. He wondered what he’d do with
this worthless fluid . . . but eventually got the
idea of bottling the oil, and selling it as a
cure-all.
That was as far as Kiers went.
The next move was made by a business-man
from Connecticut, named George Bissett. Fie
knew there was oil under the ground, on his
property, in Pennsylvania, and didn’t quite
know how to get it out.
One day Bissett saw an advertisement for
Kiers Rock Oil in a drug store window. He
read all about this marvellous mixture . . . how
Kiers had discovered its wonderful medicinal
properties . . . and how he was bottling it in
its natural state . . . undiluted, and unrefined
• : • for the general benefit of the US. public.
Bissett wasn’t impressed with the sales talk . . .
but he did realise just what it was Kiers had
struck . . , and seeing an illustration of a salt
driller s derrick on the bottle ... it came to
him that this was just what he needed to get
oil from the ground.
Bissett hurried back to his property. Calling
together a contractor and a blacksmith, he
instructed them to build a derrick, and drill
for oil.
They did this to the accompaniment of ridicule
from all sides. At 36 feet they struck rock,
and their progress was slowed to 3 feet a day!
People said they’d never do it, but they kept
on plugging until at 69feet they hit a gusher.
Here was oil . . . enough for every human
want ... in a thick black stream, shooting from
the ground. The way to modern living had
been opened.
Today, with oil cheap and plentiful, we don’t
realise just what a difference this discovery
must have made to the world.
Without oil, we couldn’t have had motor-cars,
aeroplanes, or our modern, fast-producing fac-
tories. Agriculture would have suffered.
Tractors, lighting plants, milking machines, and
farm engines, that make the farmer’s work so
light, and help him increase his output, would
never have been possible.
With atomic power on the way, oil may go out
of general use in another 100 years. But today,
and in our lifetime, we’ll be using oil . . .
drilled from the ground, just as Bissett and his
team drilled it ... 100 years ago.
Engin e Test Benches at Moffat-Virtue’s Rosebery. N.S.W., factory. A line-up of M.V.
24 h.p. Petrol Engines is being run-in under the expert eyes of skilled tradesmen ... to
make sure your M.V. Engine will give you never-failing service.
...AND A
MERRY XMAS
TO YOU ALL...
Somehow . . . because we write these
things in advance . . . Xmas has crept
into this issue before we realised it.
We had been thinking along the lines of
a big Xmas spread ... all over the page
• • ■ but we got disorganised somewhere
. . . and just had to push our existing copy
about until we had room for this message.
We do hope you have a nice Xmas . . .
with every wish you could possibly want
coming true. And remember, next year,
if you have any problems we can help you
with . . . whether you want to buy some-
thing or not . . . let us know, and we’ll
help you all we can.
MASS PRODUCED PRODUCTS
COST YOU LESS
Unit Cost Down-Quality Up
When Henry Ford first introduced the mass
produced car he started something that hasn’t
finished yet. Ford showed people how he could
produce fine quality cars cheaper than anyone
else . . . just by making more of them, faster.
Today, mass production is the only successful
way of manufacturing motor-cars. It is also the
only way we can produce engines of quality at a
price the average man can afford.
That is why Moffat-Virtue built their huge,
modern factory at Rosebery, N.S.W. They
installed up -to - the - minute high speed
machines, and employed skilled operators to
use them . . . just so they could produce better
engines at a lower price than anyone else.
When you buy a Moffat-Virtue engine you’re
not paying for wasteful methods of manufac-
ture. These engines are built on mass produc-
tion lines, carefully and well.
They’re precision tested every step of the way.
Final running-in and adjusting is carried out
with the greatest care. Yet, because Moffat-
Virtue make thousands every year, the M.V.
Engines sell at a price every man on the land
can afford.
Moffat-Virtue manufacture and distribute
petrol, kerosene and Diesel Engines, ranging
from 2\ h.p. to 55 h.p. These engines have
been designed for the man-on-the-land. Totally
enclosed, all their working parts are protected
from dirt and dust. Rugged and simple in
design, they’re cheap to maintain, and abso-
lutely reliable.
Get full particulars of these M.V. Engines from
any one of the Distributors listed at the bottom
of this page.
