

sdf
\
II
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives Of
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and ail celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange, immediate
deliveries of their products to <>ny ° ddr ® ss JV&mS ffif
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons i.Ta.
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE; Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE; Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
GAVIN CASEY SHORT STORY
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3790
Wednesday, October 1, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONGLEAT HOUSE, THE TREASURE HOUSE OF THE WEST
A'vNE of the great historic houses of England is Longleat, seat °^
O MarjLT of Bath, siiuatcd five miles from Warminster, . MgJ
This imposing building in the English Renaissance style stands m l[ P
parkland on the site of the thirteenth-century Monastery of St. Radegu
which was bought for £53 by Sir John Thynne in 1540,
The new owner, with the help of the Italian-born architect, John of
Padua, began building Longleat in 1566 and completed it
It has seventy main rooms, and its stately walls are rej.eved by 365 muUx°ned
windows while the roof is adorned with many carved domes and sculpturea
figures Although successive owners have made some alterations, the mai
character of the house remains unchanged since it was visited by Quee
Elizabeth I in 1574. Other famous visitors were Charles II and Queen
r'attinrinp in 1661 James Stuart, Duke of Monmouth, in 1680 and George
111 in 1789. The ’latter stayed at Longleat as the guest of the first Marquess
of Bath.
Despite its external grandeur the great interest o£ Lo^' e f„ 1 Priceless
interior, for it is known as “the treasure house of the West. Priceless
sixteenth-century tapestries, eighteenth-century furniture and paintings by
SSWffl. Raphael and wootton may be amjmrimgjtefc
rival the splendour of a Royal palace. The ceilings of the State Roomv™
work of Italian artists, are beautifully moulded, painted and gilded. Wall
in the drawing-room are covered in Genoa velvet in
dining-room walls are in embossed Spanish leather. In the lofty enlranc
hall is a table which once belonged to Sir Walter Raleigh and another, in the
Son is the one on which the Treaty of Vienna, 1815, was signed by
Talleyrand, Wellington and Metternich. In the gallery is the waistcoat
Woll One ( rf ai the possessions of Longleat, however, is the
extensive library, which contains, in addition to many treasured manuscripts,
cEer's Canterbury Tales printed by Caxton, first four Shakespeare folios,
a Cranmer Bible and a letter from Queen Elizabeth I to the Earl of Shrewsbury
concerning the defeat of the Spanish Armada.


reelin'
m
FfB U.U, I
J.
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
•CUT HERE AND MAID
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address . -
(5.8.152) Age
The Red Page
THE PERFECT PAINTER
For the central figure of his latest
tableau of art, Victorian Olympus (Cape),
William Gaunt has chosen Lord Leighton,
the first baron of painting as Tennyson
was the first writer to win a peerage with
his poetry, the president of the Royal
Academy in the glittering days when
paintings sold for thousands of guineas, a
man of princely manners, princely
fortune, princely generosity, a princely
style of painting in his recreation of
Greek antiquity, whose work today seems
as elegant and false as Tennyson’s
“Idylls of the King” and whose person-
ality remains the most extraordinary
mystery because, so far as the most ardent
scandalmonger has been able to detect,
there was nothing hidden, no private life,
no flaw, no mystery whatsoever.
Henry James, himself so elusive that
he could hardly be said to exist, portrayed
him in a novel as Lord Mellifont, who
was “all public and had no corresponding
private life.”
It is impossible to catch Leighton out.
When he was 21, at the very beginning of
his painting career, he made so fine a
speech at a public dinner that Frederick
Goodall, R.A., remarked to his neighbor
that here, beyond doubt, was a future
president of the Royal Academy. He
proceeded to Italy, was instantly accepted
as “the most promising young man in
Rome”; and distinguished himself by
rescuing a donkey tormented by bees:
“The party scattered, leaving the hobbled
donkey at the mercy of the bees—all
scattered, that is, except Leighton, and
one other young man. It was the work
of a moment for Leighton to slip on
gloves, tie a handkerchief over his face
and run to free the donkey from the
hobble.”
The first picture he sent to the academy,
“Cimabue,” painted in Rome and admired
by the whole artistic and fashionable
colony while it was in the process of being
painted, was bought on the first day of
the exhibition by Queen Victoria. With
the 600 guineas he got for it Leighton
bought a number of pictures from less-
successful artists, “including a poverty-
stricken friend, George Mason, who lived
in Rome on a starvation diet of the thin
porridge called ‘polenta’.”
A little later he sold his “Dante in
Exile” to the dealer Gambart for 1000
guineas, which he promptly invested in
Eastern Counties railway debentures at
par, 4-|- per cent. Disraeli drew his
portrait in prose as Mr. Phoebus in the
novel Lothair, noting his “countenance
aquiline and delicate” and “many circum-
stances of a remarkable beauty.”
'Hie stately and reserved brick mansion
which he built in Kensington was a fairy-
land of art-treasures indoors —in the
Arabian Court “There was a great gilt
dome which, when the sun shone,
sparkled with a thousand broken hues.
Melodiously, a fountain, hewn from one
solid block of black marble, in which
swam Japanese goldfish, splashed and
tinkled. In cusped recesses stood choice
examples of Damascus, Persian and
Rhodian ware The capitals were
carved with representations of rare birds
by Sir Edgar Boehm, the Queen’s
sculptor.” In another court were hung
a study by Delacroix, four great Corots,
two Constables and a David Cox, a
Daubigny—and a landscape by the
poverty-stricken friend, George Mason.
Upstairs were paintings by Reynolds,
Millais, Tintoretto, Alma-Tadema and
Burne - Jones. Leighton sometimes
received dealers in this mansion:
It was with incomparable loftiness that
he once received a deputation of dealers at
Melbury-road. “Gentlemen,” he addressed
them, with courteous distaste, “you will
excuse me, I feel sure. I have placed their
titles and prices upon the canvases I am
willing to sell. When you have made your
selection perhaps you will kindly ring the
bell and my servant will acquaint me with
your decision. I wish you a very good
morning.” But the dealers showed signs of
wanting to talk about the transaction, to
discuss the prices so precisely shown on
the pictures, and this made necessary some
plainer Olympian speaking. “I never,”
added Leighton, “enter into a discussion
about my pictures with gentlemen like
yourselves. I have given you my terms —
that is enough!”
Giving another example of the prompti-
tude in action he had shown in rescuing
the donkey, he stopped a fire and a panic
in the Duomo in Siena. He never smoked
or drank ; his life was entirely without
women. When he made a public speech,
extempore, it was noted that he always
spoke in perfect grammar. He had a flaw-
less mastery of three German dialects,
three Italian, French of course, and
Spanish. Once he astonished Browning
by conversing • with his servant in
Rumanian.
So he went on, a perfect English gentle-
man, painting his Greek and Roman anti-
quities and his impeccable nudes whose
modesty (in an age when even Alma-
Tadema’s Venus had been thought “some-
what if not very mischievous” by the
Bishop of Carlisle) could be praised by
another bishop from the pulpit; leading
the perfect life, making the perfect presi-
dent of the R.A., and even nobbling old
Burne-Jones (who thought he was a rebel)
into membership of that august academy ;
and dying, in due course, the perfect death
—his last words were, “Give my love to
the Royal Academy” ; to which he left,
as a practical token of affection, £lO,OOO.
He even held, this flawless man and
flawless painter, a flawless theory of paint-
ing ; and one which, in its insistence on
the emotional intensification of mere
esthetic pleasure, might well be revived
today as a counter to the barren cult of
abstraction:
The language of art was not, said Leigh-
ton, the “appointed vehicle of ethical
truths,” but there is a range of emotions
to which art alone has the key. Form,
color, and the contrasts of light and shade
were its agents; but then, these emotions
had an ethos of their own, conveyed
notions of strength and repose, joy or
sadness, languor or health. “It is the- in-
tensification of the simple aesthetic sensation
through ethic and intellectual sensitiveness
that gives to the arts of architecture, sculp-
ture and painting so powerful, so deep and
mysterious a hold on the imagination.”
Yet the sad fact remains, as Gaunt says,
that nobody cares very much for
Leighton’s paintings today; they are
smooth, they are elegant, and they have
no bite, no passion, no freshness, nothing
truly lyrical or truly dramatic, truly
realistic or even truly antique. It is all,
with grace, on the surface of the canvas
and the surface of life. No doubt, for his
craftsmanship, he will “come back” to
some extent; but never to those princely
heights on which once he stood.
He seems, in his way, an extremely
significant figure, as, like Tennyson, an
artist who perfectly expressed the wishes
of his age: the desire for elegance, sex-
lessness and, above all, novelty: for these
painters of antiquity, whether gothic and
pre-Raphaelite or Greek and academic,
were, as Gaunt reminds us, news in their
day: he dates his book from the arrival
of the Elgin Marbles in London, which
made the antique and classic world a
popular fashion, extending even into dress.
Novelty and the wishes of the age: yester-
day for elegance and the antique, today
for disintegration and the primitive:
yesterday Leighton, today Picasso,
Perhaps because of this fundamental
shallowness in Leighton Victorian
Olympus is rather a thin successor to the
other admirable art-histories we have had
in recent years from William Gaunt. His
faults of donnish humor (poor Haydon
is not wholly a subject for laughter) and
journalistic prose are more conspicuous
than before ; the period-color surround-
ing Leighton is thinly laid-on, as if the
author is becoming tired. Still, the book
uncovers a period in art so close to us
that we have forgotten all about it; and
readers will find it both amusing and
informative.
Fish and Frogs
It is not everyone who is invited to
make a business of deepsea fishing, an
offer that came to Dr. F. D. Ommanney
in 1947, when John Wheeler, fisheries
biologist, asked him to joi|i a ship that
was being fitted out to investigate the
fishery resources of the shoals in the
thousand miles of ocean from Mauritius
to the Seychelles. Dr. Ommanney’s book,
The Shoals of Capricorn (Longmans),
finally comes round to this matter, but
because he had to wait six months in
Mauritius while the drifter was being
fitted out his narrative is more about
“Frogs” than fish, the population, or at
any rate the tradition, of Mauritius being
French, though the island has belonged
to Britain since 1810.
The British took over the island and
continued its government rather gently.
There had always been martial courtesy,
as when, in 1798, an envoy from a British
blockading squadron, sent ashore to
protest against an unwitting French
breach of truce, was hastened back to his
ship from, dinner with the French
Governor. The Governor explained next
day that, having had private news of the
approach of a large French ship which, in
fact, the British squadron eventually
captured, he would never have forgiven
himself if, under the mask of hospitality,
he had prevented a young officer from
doing his duty to his country.
Now the island, 728 square miles, 38
long, 29 broad, has to support about
500,000 —10,000 Europeans of French
descent, nearly 250,000 Indians,
descendants of imported laborers, 8000
Chinese shopkeepers taking one match
out of every box to make an extra box
in each 60, and the rest descendants of
freed negro slaves—the “creoles,” of every
shade of intermarriage. The term means
“native,” but may no longer be applied
to Europeans born in the island ; most
are curiously dark, says Dr. Ommanney,
but account for it by “Spanish blood.”
The opening of the Suez Canal ended
Mauritius as a provisioning port; sugar
is the island’s only export, and the
industry supports no more than 15,000
people ; the rest live by taking in one
another’s washing. It is more usual than
not for a couple to have eight or ten
children ; and a uniformed attendant in a
Government office supports a family of
twelve on £3 a month. The creoles live
in hovels and slums; the well-to-do
Europeans have fled the feverous port and
live inland at Curepipe, whence business-
men and officials come into town each
day in a steam-train. A gentleman must
not be seen carrying anything; he is
accompanied to the. train every morning
by a servant who carries his bag, his
brown-paper parcel or his newspaper.
Another servant meets the train in the
city and carries the bag, brown-paper
parcel or newspaper to the gentleman’s
office, at a respectful distance from the
gentleman. The comparative handful of
British administrators, teachers and
officials keep to themselves at the
Gymkhana Club.
With an interlude of fishing for mullet
in the lagoon, Dr. Ommanney sails in a
three-masted schooner of 150 tons to the
Seychelles, about 1000 miles north ; 92
islands, the capital, on Victoria, being
“full of old people who have settled
there for the rest of their lives, but
they cannot die,” There is a retired
colonel, the only Englishman on the near-
by island of Praslin, living in a bungalow
facing the beach and the lagoon:
Every few months there is great activity
and a busy hammering and running to and
fro. The Colonel is packing up to go to
Mahe. Arrived there in the hotel the boxes
are unpacked and the balconies become
festooned and draped with all the pomp
and circumstance of glorious war. Be-
ribboned uniforms, army great-coats, tail-
coats, dinner-jackets and tailor-made
Savile Row suits are hung from coat-
hangers all about the verandas or draped
over chairs, immaculate and well-pressed
as on their last parade, their last reception,
their last luncheon and glass of port at the
United Services Club. They will never be
worn again. “A busy day today,” says the
Colonel with satisfaction, tramping to and
fro with his arms full of clothes. “Air-
ing my town suits, you know,” and when
this duty is complete the suits and uniforms
are packed up in their boxes again with
mothballs and the Colonel returns to Pras-
lin, to his dogs and his meditation, for
several more months.
Praslin is also the home of the
coco-de-mer, the fabulous coconut whose
empty shells, washed up on other islands
or India, were thought 200 years ago to
be the fruit of an underwater tree.
Rabelaisian theories grew around their
curious shape; they were valued as anti-
dotes for poisons, and as aphrodisiacs,
and adopted in India as sacred emblems
in temples; and the Hapsburg King,
Rudolph I (1218-91), offered 4000 gold
florins for one. When the French found
the Seychelles in 1742 the myth died and
the price slumped.
There is a chapter on the island of
Aldabra, nearer to the African coast, a
coral island enclosing a lagoon, the soil
being guano, the droppings of millions of
years, 40ft. or 50ft. thick. Aldabra shares
with the Galapagos islands the distinction
of being the last wild refuge of the giant
land tortoise, which grows as much as
3ft. 6in, high; huge-things lying like
boulders in hundreds about the island ;
protected since 1874, eating leaves and
making love. Rowing in to the island, Dr.
Ommanney was invited by the coxswain
to a love-affair of sea-turtles; and they
took some of these back on the drifter:
Greenish layers of cartilage and connec-
tive tissue lie between the carapace and the
plastron, joining the two shields together.
This is a great delicacy known as “calipee”
from which, I believe, real turtle-soup is
made. It only appears, I think, at the
Lord Mayor’s banquet It used to be
sent specially in refrigerated ships from the
Seychelles to London for the annual gastro-
nomic circus.
On Frigate Island, invited to a private
big-game-fishing party, Dr. Ommanney
met “Lofty,” former owner of a Sydney
gents -outfitting business which had grown
into “wider and more elaborate frontages
with chromium and daylight-lighting of
increasing hideousness.” Now 65, he had
sold the business and come to the
Seychelles looking for a good time. The
author evidently liked him; he has filled
almost a chapter with him ; it is a strange
thing to have to go to the Seychelles for
such a portrait:
He had lived on the fringe of the variety
stage had always wanted to go on the
stage himself., .“But no, the old Dad
wanted me to go into the business, so into
the business I went like a good boy”
But as a result he was a wonderful racon-
teur and could call up out of the past that
mushroom town as it might have been some
40 years ago. He could make vivid, though
possibly inaccurate, pictures glow in the
imagination, and called up many a raffish,
impecunious, bibulous ghost, who nodded
and winked, touched you for a liver, told
you a rude story, promised you a drink
“another time, old man,” and faded into
the shades. There were the gaslit streets
with their Victorian Gothic churches and
their innumerable pubs. There were the
seedy old men with lined faces, leaning
against the pillars that supported the
canopies above the pavements, spitting in
the gutters. You may see them today in
any Australian town, old sundowners and
deadbeats, waiting for the next drink. On
the facades of the theatres names flashed
and twinkled in rows of bulbs. Inside
vociferous audiences whistled and cheered
their favorites. The drums rolled. Down
came the curtain.
“Ah well,” Lofty would say sentiment-
ally. They’re all gone now. Clever
people, and they made you laugh. I loved
’em.”
• There is a great deal more about
“Lofty” ; but it is hard to choose from
Dr. Ommanney. Maybe because of the
winds that blow regularly across these
islands, as over Capri, or maybe because
of the style, or the union of past and
present, the book is reminiscent of
Norman Douglas; a travel - book
de luxe.
Reviewed Briefly
The Carved Stone: G. Rostrevor
Hamilton (Heinemann). A collection of
“Small Poems and Epigrams.” Most of
the offerings suffer from banality of
thought and tepidity of treatment. Worse
than this, many of the epigrammatic
verses do not even scan correctly; an
unforgivable sin in this form of writing.
* * * *
The Hayburn Family : Guy McCrone
(Dymocks). A sequel to Wax Fruit,
which introduced the Moorhouse family
of Glasgow. There is plenty of action,
an improbable romance and doubly
improbable happy-ending in this period
of Moorhouse history, dated 1900 or
thereabouts. Some of the characters are
engaging, but the book as a whole is
competent rather than distinguished.
* * * H=
A Many-Splendared Thing: Han Suyin
(Cape). A fine novel of the love of a
Chinese woman doctor for a British
newspaper correspondent in Hong Kong.
The scenes in Hong Kong, crowded with
refugees from the Communist advance
down China, and the scenes in Chungking,
where the woman doctor went to visit her
family, and later saw young Communists
demonstrating and reorganising the com-
munity, make a forceful picture of con-
temporary China; and the love-affair,
between the Chinese woman who gave
everything, and the British journalist who
gave everything and took it back again,
and repeated the process until his death
in Korea, is an almost surgical explora-
tion of a woman’s power to love and
suffer—-and talk about it—illuminated with
Chinese wisdom, legend and poetry, and
garnished with sketches and portraits of
far-eastern people, some Chinese, many
European, many far from complimentary.
sjs * * *
Farm Wife: Marion Roberts (Dent).
Life as the wife of a small farmer in
the hills of Wales, with photographs of
stone cottages and the locals ploughing
and harvesting. Pleasant little anecdotes
of'crockery, babies with measles, horses,
pigs, poaching and the like. Among
visitors to the locality was Lady Mont-
gomery, known to the family as Aunt
Maud, who “was really very proud of
the fact that she had once been known
as the worst-dressed woman in New
Zealand.”
❖ *
A useful reprint in Everyman’s Library
is the Smaller Classical Dictionary, revised
and brought up to date in the light or
modern scholarship and archeology by
John Warington. Intended as an in-
dispensable companion to the classics—
which it still is—it may also serve a
humble purpose as a companion 101
crosswords and quizzes. Everyman s
popular and amazingly comprehensive
Encyclopaedia of Gardening is also avail-
able in a new edition, revised by Stanley
B. Whitehead.


Kg*
p
►
\
>SS
mm
r>**
111
v S
Wooden Venetian Blinds made
to order in 4 weeks
Also Metal Venetians Made to Order
These very attractive wood Vene-
tian blinds are made in our own
factory by skilled workmen.
These blinds are styled to add charm
to the finest interiors; they handle
easily and hang gracefully.
The materials used are only the
finest; the laths are selected
Canadian cedar, and the finish Is
satin smooth and stands up to ail
abuse. The tapes are Carr's English
ladder tape.
These blinds give you a most
permanent beauty.
We can match any colour to any
colour scheme. Priced at 6/11 sq. ft.
Minimum, 12 sq. ft. per blind.
Write, phone or call and we will
forward our easy guide to measure
on all types of blinds.
To glamorise your home
JeWi. Pacific and
v
m
mm
mss
Left:
Gladys Grieve No. 663. Box-
tailored bolster style. Six
inch box heading on skirt in
honeycomb pattern. Throw-
back sham with skirted
ends. Colours; Rose,
Green, Beige, White,
Mushroom, Blue and
Gold. Price £l4/12/6
3ft., £l4/19/6 double.
Aneß'in pastel shades.
Above Right:
Jeldi Spreads in a full price
range from £5/15/- to
£l3/6/9. Featured style No.
5A in full range of colours
and in pastel shades. 3ft.,
£5/1 0/- ; double size, £5/15/-
Ruffles illustrated at left on
window in White plastic with
Red, Blue or Green trim, 32/6.
Below Right:
Pacific Velwick Chenille No. 20.
In tailored style in all colours
and paste! shades. £lO/13/6
3ft,; double-bed size, £lO/16/9.
♦< --* ■ ~>' v
v,-
25 Wi?* VV.* «. W V< V■» <C ' < * ' «•'»'•»
V* VW* '' v- 5 -
W**- v* *« <- •■- V'-'s
■ i<• % -v>-% *>"
h^A\\\
%m
m
a
vm
m
m
I
mm
m
■&&
- ■• -.
ills
M
im
m :
mm
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING''
sd
fs
DEPARTMENT. THIRD FLOOR, BOX 2712 C. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
’PHONE M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA


"Macnell” Goes
SUBMARINING
OFF SYDNEY
FROM the heights of Balmoral Naval
Depot H.M. submarine Thorough
looked like a great black slug
nudging the pier—low-lying, ugly
and sinister.
Boarding her, one found in her officers
a cheerful bunch of youngsters who could
have graced any church bazaar —till the
captain came aboard. With his presence
youths were transformed into a tightly-
disciplined body of efficient seamen, alert,
and, though it was barely noticeable,
tense.
The captain shook hands genially,
grinned something about shore-side
stomachs, stepped to the forrard-end of
the tiny bridge, and became instantly a
single-minded commander. His voice was
concise.
“Slow astern starb’d. Starb’d fifteen.”
Without sound or shudder the sub-
marine slid her water-lapped tail to port,
and her bow away from the buoy. Sub-
marine diesels cannot go astern; she was
on electric power. Slipping out past
Middle Head, rolling her bulging bilges
in the heavy ground swell, with the fair-
way clear she changed to diesels, both
big engines firing with a splutter of flung
spray from the exhausts, her hammer of a
bow aimed for the open sea.
That bow packed a hammer-blow, all
right—six 21-inch torpedo tubes, the war-
head in each equal to the blast of a
cruiser’s full broadside. Up towards
Bradley’s Head destroyer Anzac, with
her superior 36 knots, waited, letting us
out first. Once we were well out, with a
hundred fathoms beneath us to play in,
we would see who was superior.
A submarine always dives, if possible,
with the seas on her beam. Driving at 12
knots into oncoming waves would tend
to keep her head up. Eight miles out
Thorough altered course a little. Astern,
her grey hull barely visible against the
neutral color of Middle Head, Anzac
hoisted a black flag—executive to begin
the exercise. Today we would be hunted
for seven hours.
The captain took a final checking look
round the guiltless horizon. “Clear the
bridge.”
Three officers leapt with practised
facility down the long, vertical ladder
leading to the control-room. Used to
sloping ladders and wide hatchways, I
followed awkwardly felt something
under my heel, and dropped into the
control-room to see the navigator rubbing
his fingers. His remarks were cut short
by the peremptory blare of a klaxon
throughout the boat.
For five seconds Thorough was an ant-
hill of activity, men running and squeez-
ing through her narrow-gutted innards.
Then all was still, with a dozen or so men
packed into the wheel- and dial-crowded
control-room, each man staring in con-
centration at his particular dial or lever,
his back to the first-lieutenant standing
in the centre beside the thick trunk of the
forrard periscope.
A thud behind me heralded the landing
of the captain. The hatch above him was
clipped with one decisive movement.
“Eighty feet,” he said.
Orders passed quickly and quietly—
Hollywood would be surprised. “Vent
main tanks.” A lever jerked back, and a
blast of water-forced air rushed in with a
shriek and a mist of evaporating white.
“Down periscope.” The greased trunk
slid silently into its well in the deck of the
control-room.
Hanging grimly on to a stanchion,
waiting for the dive, I whispered to the
navigator. “When do we actually dive?”
He grinned, and pointed to a large depth-
gauge on the bulkhead opposite. The
pointer showed 70ft. It had taken
Thorough a little over half a minute to
sink unnoticeably to that.
“This is a crash-dive, then?” “No
such animal as crash-dives —except in
novels. When we dive—under any
circumstances —we get down at the rush.
That’s normal routine.”
Cruising at eight knots with 80ft, of
water above her, Thorough was at neutral
buoyancy, just holding her own, so that
she was kept at the ordered depth by two
planesmen operating her hydroplanes—in
effect, steering her vertically. To their
right, the normal helmsman kept her on-
course, his gyro-compass allowing him
to steer her as accurately at 80ft. below
as Anzac’s quartermaster up top. If she
had to dive deeper, suddenly, the order
would be: “Flood ‘Q’.” This tank, hold-
ing nine tons of water admitted through an
11-inch vent, would upset her buoyancy
instantly and drop her like a stone.
There was not the slightest sound in
the control-room —no rush of water slid-
ing down a surface ship’s sides, no throb
of steam-driven propellers. Silence. Till
I picked up the spare headphones of the
asdic set. Caught by her hydrophones, the
searching destroyer’s asdic “pings” came
loud and clear. We knew exactly where
she was —her bearing and her distance.
Then the earphones were filled with
'another sound, so loud that I took them
off. The control-room now was filled
with a faint, distinct swishing sound.
Heads instinctively craned up to the mute
deckhead. The sound grew rapidly, the
swishes rising to loud, swirling beats of
sound. They filled the control-room. The
noise passed directly overhead, like a
train rushing over a railway bridge, then
beat away to silence. Anzac had passed
right over us.
In action, the swishes would have been
followed by the pressure-pounding explo-
sions of depth-charges.
The captain grinned. “We let ’em
have it easy that time.” He passed an
order to the first-lieutenant and helms-
man. Thorough twisted and circled, drop-
ping another 20ft. We had the destroyer
pin-pointed with our hydrophones, but it
was some time before we heard again the
rush of her passing.
For seven hours the submarine skulked
below, constantly hunted by the trainee
asdic operators in Anzac up top. At one
stage, to save her batteries, a tiny
2i-horsepower motor was clutched into
one driving shaft. It shifted her 1200 tons
at about one knot—steerage way.
As she could stay down for several
days, the air in our time of submersion
remained perfectly fresh. Even at 100 ft.
she was rolling. Submariners say that the
area off Sydney is unique. The cliffs go
down so steeply that the ground swell,
breaking against their base, is thrown far
back sub-surface, and a submarine can
roll more at 200 ft. than she does on the
surface.
After a roast dinner in the tiny ward-
room, a tour of inspection. Beneath a
maze of highly-polished switches lay the
great twin electric motors, spinning
silently, driving, as well as the propeller-
shafts, the powerful pumps • with which
the officer of the watch was constantly
keeping her trimmed at 100 ft. As each
man passed him in the control-room he
requested permission to go forrard or aft;
his weight would upset the trim, so deli-
cately was she balanced. A messdeck
about 12ft. square held 14 bunks and the
inevitable pin-up girl.
There are two periscopes. The larger
one is used for searching; the smaller, a
mere steel spindle which leaves a tiny
wake practically unnoticeable, has a lens
as big as a fingernail. It is used for the
final stages of the attack, and is kept
raised for only seconds at a time. Both
periscopes are worked electrically.
Three-forty-five. The captain strolled,
into the control-room and said “Diving
stations.” Again the quick, disciplined
manning of’positions. His hands in his
pockets, assured in his craft’s training,
the captain ordered “Fire after under-
water gun.”
This shoots a “candle” to the surface,
which, burning with a yellow flame, indi-
cates our submerged position to the wait-
ing destroyer. Five minutes on a steady
course and depth, then the forrard candle
went up. The captain waited for the
verifying report of its firing to come from
forrard, and ordered; “Shut main vents.
Thirty feet.”
Watching the depth-gauge, with its big
pointer swiftly revolving, the captain
ordered; “Up forrard periscope.” He
crouched, took hold of the handlebars as
they emerged from the well, so that he
was ready to scan the surface as soon as
the lens broke clear up top. He swung
round the well in a peculiar motion, his
weight on the handles, trailing his feet
behind him, searching the whole horizon
swiftly—for obvious reasons. The sun-
light from 30ft. above shone into his eyes.
He gestured. I looked and saw a
merchantman directly ahead, her bow
aimed at us, range about three miles.
The captain took the periscope again,
making sure. All hands waited, in a tense
tableau, the gun’s crew crouched under
their gun-hatch just through the control-
room, the first-lieutenant staring in con-
centration at his depth-gauges, a dozen
pairs of hands on wheels and levers, the
only movement the captain swinging and
the planesmen twirling their hydroplane
Stories
One of next week’s batch of
Bulletin stories —
“SPEAKING LIKENESS "
by J. B. Blair
A schoolboy’s papier-mach6 mask
and the trouble it caused a Sydney
family.' •
wheels. The captain snapped the handle-
bars with a definite movement to the
trunk, and the periscope slid noiselessly
into its housing. He stepped to the bridge
ladder, waiting behind the signalman, who
had one foot ready on the rung.
Still intent on his gauges, the first-
lieutenant pulled a whistle from his
pocket, waited a moment till the pointers
steadied on 10ft., then blew a loud blast.
The silent tableau broke instantly—signal-
man unclipping the hatch in one swift
movement and running up the vertical
ladder as though it were household stairs;
gun-crew disappearing in a second up
their ladder, emerging in rear of the gun.
Through the second hatch, and captain
and signalman were on the swilling
bridge ; Thorough, cascading water from
her casing, was on the surface, as
smoothly as she had dived. Following
them into the sunshine, I saw the
merchantman, heeling under full rudder,
altering course away from the threat,
A mile to port, Anzac swung in a wide
circle to take station astern, her rails
crowded with the trainees taking their
first close look at the target their sonic
fingers had been seeking all day.
An hour later Thorough slid her bilges
to rest against her catamaran. Astern of
us the rakish beauty of the destroyer slid
up-harbor to her buoy. The next day
the exercise would be repeated; the scores
of gauges and dials and levers ; the quiet,
instant discipline which exceeds that of
any other branch of naval service; the
training which ensures that as many as
half a dozen actions are automatically
carried out in response to a single order.
That Guesthouse Game of Cards
i ( \ | A ELL, how about a game
\A / of cards? Do you play
VV euchre > Mr. Slummock ?”
“Oh, yes, Mrs. Geyser,
I don’t mind having a game.”
“Good. Now who else can we
get to make a four? Here’s Mrs.
Gasser. I think I heard someone
say she plays cards. Oh, Mrs.
Gasser, would you care to make the
fourth for a game of euchre?”
“Well, I haven’t played for years,
but if you can put up with me”
“Oh, you’ll soon pick it up again.
Anyway, we’re not that brilliant our-
selves. All right, then. Now, how
will we play? I think you and Mr
Berper had better play Mr. Stum-
mock and myself. Cut for deal-
lowest.”
“It’s yours, Mrs. Gasser.... Well,
what a windy day it’s been? I de-
test the winds—l’d rather have the
rain, I think.”
“Yes, the winds at this time of the
year are the worst of all, I always
say. And they say we always get
three days of them, too.”
“It’s your deal, Mrs. Gasser.”
“Oh, so it is! That’s your
daughter playing the piano, isn’t it,
Mrs. Geyser? She does play nicely,
doesn’t she? I do think it’s such a
wonderful accomplishment. Has she
been learning long?”
“Since she was eight.”
“Fancy! And she has such con-
fidence, hasn’t she? You can
always tell a”
“You’ll be shuffling the spots off
those cards, Mrs. Gasser—har, har!”
“Oh, dear, I’m so sorry. It is my
deal, isn’t it? I have a grand-
daughter learning, and she’s only six.
She demanded to be taught when she
was a tot of five—actually demanded,
mind you. It’s in her, of course.
Her grandfather”
“You’re dealing seven cards each,
Mrs. Gasser.”
“Oh, dear. How silly of me! I
must have been thinking of rummy
or something. Wait till I take those
others back. There! Well, it’s my
go, isn’t it? I’ll play the ace of
clubs.”
“No, no, Mrs. Gasser, take it up
again. We haven’t cut to see what
trumps are yet.”
“Oh, do we do that? lam so
silly; I keep forgetting. Oh, I turn
this one up, do I? Fancy, it’s a
club. Aren’t I lucky having the ace
of it! Let me see —isn’t this the
game where you prop and cop? I’ve
heard them say it when my son has
had friends over for cards at times.
He’s married now, of course. Has
two dear little girls of his own and
such a sensible wife. I tell you it
was a weight off my mind.”
“Mrs. Gasser, prop and cop is
only used in solo whist. In euchre
you have right and left bowers,
and”
“Oh, now I remember. Well,
whose lead is it—mine?”
“Don’t bother about whose lead it
is yet, Mrs. Gasser. We have to find
out first if it will be ordered up or
down, or if you will take it up.”
“Oh, I can take it up, can I? I
really should, I suppose, because I
have the jack and ace and”
“Don’t tell us what you have—that
will spoil it.”
“Oh, of course. Aren’t I silly! Is
nobody ordering me up? Oh, well,
I’ll take it up. What will I do with
this diamond I don’t want—put it
back in the pack?
“Well, it’s your lead, Mr. Stum-
mock. Oh, the ace of hearts. Isn’t
that lucky? I haven’t any, so I
can”
“For heaven’s sake don’t tell us!”
“Oh, did I do something wrong?
I thought—oh, whose is that eight
of clubs?”
“It’s mine, and remember, Mrs.
Gasser, I’m your partner. I’ve
trumped his ace.”
“That’s all right. I know. Oh,
you’re following hearts, are you,
Mr. Stummock? Well, I’ll beat that
eight of trumps with the jack. That’s
our trick, partner.”
“It already was before you wasted
the right bower on it.”
“But how could I have wasted it?
After all, I did take the trick. You
only put a small one on and”
“All right, all right, forget it. Now
it’s your lead.”
“It’s my lead, is it? Fancy. Well,
I suppose I’ll have to lead something.
There’s the nine of clubs. Oh, dear,
Mrs. Geyser’s taken it with the
queen!
“What’s that, spades? Well, I’ll
trump that with the ace of clubs,
Your king, partner? Well, how was
/to know it was your trick! Well,
there’s my next lead.”
“The ten of hearts! But, dammit,
you trumped the first lead of hearts,
You’ve reneged.”
“Well, what difference does it
make if I play it now instead of the
first time? I think you’re too fussy
a player, Mr. Berper. But I’ll take
it back if you like and play the right
one.”
“Ar, it’s too late for that now—
the hand’s already played.”
“Well! First you say one thing
and then another. I do wish you’d
make up your mind. Now whose
lead is it?”
* * * *
“Well, of all the ill-mannered men.
I’ve never seen the like. Gets up
and leaves without saying a word,
He was brought up by the roots of
his hair. And calls himself a card-
player, too. Trumping a trick when
he knows / had the jack. The whole
trouble with him was his mind
wasn’t on the game! ”
80.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 1 , 1952
Vol. 73 — -No. 3790
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAS OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
RUSSIA'S NEW DICTATORS
After an interval of 13 years—since March, 1939
the Communist Party of the U.S.S.R. is to hold a
national congress, opening on October 5.
These congresses began long before the
Bolsheviks achieved power. The sixth was held “on
the run” in July-August, 1917. From then till 1925,
when the 14th took place, they were held annually.
Four will have been held in the years 1927-52 at
intervals decided by Stalin.
Each of the four since 1927 has been on the same
formula. Each has marked a step in Communism
and led to the wiping-out of some class,
countries or group of persons. The 15th in
1927 brought forward the first of the five-year plans
to sovietise Russian agriculture; this provided the
excuse to tighten up the rules, policy and discipline,
to expel Trotsky and Zinoviev and crush or humble
their followers. The pretext of the 16th, held in
1930, was to “transfer the basis of Soviet economy
from an agricultural to an industrial basis.” But it
authorised “the complete elimination of the kulaks,” or
peasant-owners of land, achieved in one horrible purge.
The 17th (1934) was known as the “Congress
of Victors” because it discussed no new plan but
recorded the victories of Socialism. Its real objective
was the passage of the usual new set of rules, designed
to deal with “deviation against which we have ceased
to fight,” and to “expose the ideology of the remnants
of the hostile classes.” There followed the institution
of the Soviet Constitution and the great three-year
purge which wiped out 60,000 Army officers, from the
commander-in-chief, Marshal Tuchachevsky, down-
wards, and about 80 per cent, of the leaders of the
revolution, murdered or executed as “agents of the
foreign bourgeois espionage services, spies, wreckers,
diversionists, assassins, traitors.”
The 18th (1939) was ostensibly called to institute
economic advances to overtake the capitalist countries,,
'to create an abundance of products so as to be able
to make the transition from the first phase of Com-
munism to the second.” An approach to Germany
for an alliance, a reorganisation of Communist parties
throughout the world —all of them suddenly becoming
rich-the division of Poland with the “blood-drunk
Nazis,” the rape of the little Baltic countries followed.
The 19th conference now to be held follows the
normal pattern in agenda. There is the pretext —a
plan to take over the transition from Socialism to
Communism where the work of the 18th congress
left off when Hitler attacked ; a drastic revision of
the rules to provide a rod in pickle for a very large
body of trembling Russians and not, it is to be hoped,
for the world.
“Ordinary congresses” are provided every four
years—hut this means nothing. This looks like the
last effective one. The new rules abolish the inter-
mediate “All-Union congress.” Control power will
reside officially from now onwards in the Central
Committee. The word “Bolshevik,” which means
“majority,” goes out of use, and the reason is clear
when it is seen how little “majorities” are to figure in
future Soviet Communist history.
In the existing Constitution the executive power of
the Soviet Union Party (and Government) is centred
in the Secretariat—in Stalin, the general-secretary —
assisted by two planning and advisory bodies subject
to his will, the Politbureau and the Grgbureau. In
the new Constitution, presumably to prepare for Stalin’s
retirement to Olympus, on earth or otherwise, the
Politbureau has been —contrary to the general report
that it is to be abolished—“reorganised into the
Presidium of the Central Committee, to direct the
work between plenary sessions of the committee.” It
thus acquires Stalin’s powers and functions as a body.
Those of the hitherto dominant Secretariat are now
to be defined as “routine organisational work of the
Central Committee which it is advisable to concen-
trate in one body.” The Orgbureau, for obvious
reasons, ceases to exist. The Presidium will have a
president, but he will not have Stalin’s powers by
right—only if he becomes personally powerful enough
to acquire them.
The most drastic and elaborate rules to protect the
new dictators are introduced, and millions of
threatened wretches will shiver as they read the long
comminutions against, and the measures to deal with,
“widespread political complacency and loafing,” the
“disclosing of party secrets” and the “great evil of
selection of cadres on the basis of friendly relations,
personal attachment, crony ship and kinship” ; also
the rules to “resolutely root out the seignorial, anti-
qOM and fit/g-p.
HOTEL
THE BOTS
“How about the price of a feed, mister?”
party notion of discipline that there are two dis-
ciplines ... one for the rank-and-file and another for
leaders.”
The new plans presage all-out economic or
fighting war against the outside world. They are
something to be viewed with concern and preparation
by all countries which value the continued existence
of their security and freedom.
"Princely" Government Jobs
Back-pedalling by N.S.W. Premier Cahill before the
delegation of his Government’s bosses from Sydney
Trades Hall will not help him to avoid the unpopular
things which he says Governments today must do. He
told the delegation he would “wire the Prime Minister”
asking him to “create” bank-credit to avoid dismissals
from Government jobs.
This, after telling his own Parliament that if he
did not dismiss 500 or 600 employees now it might be
5000 soon if the position were not corrected. The diffi-
culty of “creating” credit for a bankrupt is traditional.
He knew what the answer must be before he wired.
Historically it is a far cry back to the Ashfield
by-election of only three months ago. Then Mr.
Cahill assured the Ashfield electors that they could,
by voting “Labor,” compel the Menzies Government
to produce money to enable the N.S.W. Government
to keep up its expenditure. Threat of a general
election in N.S.W. would, he said, make the Common-
wealth Government run for cover. Today an early
general election is the last thing he wants.
The news that he would shortly have restored
to him full scope to raise by taxation his own spending-
money from his own State was a great shock. The
Commonwealth is this year raising on behalf of,
and paying to, Mr. Cahill over £54,000,000 of taxation.
When Mr. Cahill and all other Socialists say that Mr.
Menzies’s refusal to allow N.S.W. enough money is
compelling dismissals from Government jobs, they
can only mean that the reinstatement of such dismissals
will require the raising next year by Mr. Cahill (if he
is still there) by much more than £54,000,000 in
increased income tax imposed by the State.
Premier Cahill obviously feels the double-edge
of this party propaganda. His own Budget disclosed
the disgraceful drift in his Government’s transport
finances, and the prospect of having to impose his
own corrective taxes forced him to cut his transport
running expenses. His Transport Minister said that
the department is overstaffed, that the roguery of
“foreign orders” is rampant in departmental work-
shops, and Mr. Cahill himself ordered peremptory
economies. When the transport unions threatened to
strike against the Government, Mr. Cahill told trans-
port heads that on the lines he had laid down he
“wanted results within six weeks.”
He added later : “The public must have transport,
and the Government must pay the princely salaries laid
down by the law of the land” —including (for over-
time) his own Government’s 40-hour-week law!
The Commonwealth Government’s measures to
cure an unbalanced economy which is maintaining
inflated costs in industry have, as the Prime Minister
says, begun to work. Witness the latest recent
slight reductions in overseas shipping freights
(in response to improved turn-round of ships in Aus-
tralian ports) and in coal prices. But there has been
no improvement as yet in the go-slow and indiscipline
in Government jobs, or in the whole attitude of
politicians and those whom they delight to honor by
appointment to such employment. Until that public
inquiry is held which Mr. Sheahan has demanded in
the chief spending department of the N.S.W. adminis-
tration, no electors will dismiss the conviction, induced
by official revelations and by their own observation,
that the costs of government, not merely in N.S.W.
but everywhere, are loaded down by the need to
maintain thousands of surplus hands in departmental
jobs which grow daily more like sinecures. Only the
drying up of bank-credits and “special grants” from
Commonwealth taxation is forcing the need for over-
haul and economy upon a party which has in N.S.W.
been scattering money on all sides in the most reckless
fashion for nearly 12 years. The day of reckoning
is at hand, and, as Premier Cahill told Parliament,
“there could be a major crisis in transport.”
Socialist criticism of the Menzies Government’s
anti-inflation measures, like- that of the Churchill Gov-
ernment by the Socialist party in Britain, mean nothing
if not the promise of prohibitive tax-increases
—so prohibitive as to make their policies impracticable
anyway —or reckless “creation” of paper-money, which
would send all costs skyrocketing. The British
Labor party reveals the poverty of this criticism
in its latest “statement of policy,” a pamphlet entitled
Facing the Facts.
The demand in this pamphlet that “nationalisation
must step in wherever private enterprise fails the
people” is the re-echo of a “diluted” socialisation policy
familiar to Australian ears, but there, as here, Govern-
ment undertakings are recognised as drifting on to the
rocks unless the whole idea of “a Government job” is
radically changed. “Managements and works in
nationalised ©industries,” declared this Labor state*
ment, “must increase output and raise productivity.”
Nothing but the lack of money will teach Govern-
ments how true this is.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Britain and Anzus
If the information is fact, there has been
no more indiscreet act by an Australian
Government than the reported concur-'
rence of this country in the refusal of
the Anzus Military Conference in
Hawaii to permit a British representative
to be present as an observer.
The integral quality of British Com-
monwealth defence is a fact of nature and
geography from which we cannot escape.
Our naval defence is tied inextricably to
Britain’s, since our major ships, our
whole naval armament and our naval air
cover come from Britain and the officers
of R.N. and R.A.N. are interchangeable.
Our R.A.A.F. is own brother to the
R.A.F. and utterly dependent, in spite
of some boasting to the contrary, on
British machines or engines—the United
States cannot supply us with a Canberra
bomber, and the Sabre fighters which we
are to use are only markedly superior to
the Russian MIGs when engined with the
British Avon. Our tanks and military
armament must come from Britain. Our
senior officers go to British staff colleges
and take part in the annual British Com-
monwealth Staff Conference. The vital
interest of Britain in Pacific defence, and
particularly our defence, is being adver-
tised at present in the arrangements at
Monte Bello, where Australia has only
observers and the work is being done by
British advanced scientists and service
commanders.
Yet the Government behaves —publicly
at any rate, and it is to be hoped that it
is only a public-relations matter —as if
Britain can be written off as a dead-letter.
It would be easy sometimes to imagine,
watching their actions, that Australian
Ministers regard our connection with the
British Commonwealth as merely a token
arrangement and believe that the only
hope of future safety lies in our complete
subservience to the United States in de-
fence and general strategic policies. This
is very far from the truth. Neither the
United States nor the British Common-
wealth could fight a world war alone. And
Australian influence on the world scene
would be minute if exercised solus and
not as part of the British Common-
wealth.
Apart from the shattering effect which
decisions such as that allegedly taken in
Hawaii must have on British Common-
wealth internal relations, the effect on
British prestige, which we should be
building up in Asia along with our own
for all we are worth, is horrible to think
about; its implications are those of
ingratitude and imprudence.
It was reported in London last week
that Mr. Churchill was returning hurriedly
from a needed holiday to deal with two
important issues, of which the Anzus
situation was one. If it is and the facts
are as reported, it is to be hoped that his
atom blast will reach as far as Canberra
and knock a little sense of reality into a
few heads there.
The Veteran
The members of the Federal Parliament
entertained W. M. Hughes on his 88th
birthday at Canberra. He is the one
surviving member of the pre-Federation
N. S. Wales Assembly, which he entered
as Labor member for Lang on July
17, 1894. Since that date he has had a
Parliamentary seat continuously, and
holds the present long-distance sitting
record for living man in the English-speak-
ing Assemblies. He was an original mem-
ber of the Federal House, and has graced
it with his wit and invective ever since.
Since June 30, 1938, he has been its only
original member still sitting. He was the
Commonwealth’s first Labor External
Affairs Minister (Watson Ministry, 1904).
He is the last great world figure from
World War I and the Versailles Peace
Conference. He served in the Imperial
War Cabinet of 1916-21 and lived to be a
member of the Cabinet in World War II
—he became Attorney-General and Navy
Minister in 1940.
He has most honors that the British
Commonwealth can offer him, is a Com-
panion of Honor and a Privy Councillor
both of Great Britain and Canada. He
has the Grand Cross of the Legion of
Flonor. He is also an English Queen’s
Counsel and a doctor of half a dozen
English universities.
Perhaps his career is in itself the best
honor that can be attached to him, but
the whole country would approve if some-
thing special were done to mark his long
record of service.
Possibly some special record of him
could be enshrined as a permanent fea-
ture in the House of Representatives it-
self ; something which would be every
day in use for the service of the House
so long as it continued to exist, and which
would thus embalm his memory per-
petually in Commonwealth Parliamentary
daily life.
Evatt's False Witness
In criticism of the Menzies Government
Dr. Evatt is bellowing on Flinders by-
election platforms, as he did in the House
of Reps, about the “horror” taxation of
today as compared with the last year of
the Chifley Government in 1949.
Notoriously the Leader of the Opposi-
tion knows nothing about finance, though
he did admit (but without applying the
factor to his comparisons) that the value
of the pound in which his quantities are
expressed had diminished by about one-
half over the years.
Taking the official statistics, it is
manifest that the levels of present taxa-
tion imposts are, as percentages of
national income and market expenditure,
actually no higher than in the last years
of the Chifley regime after “Labor” had,
as Dr. Evatt says, greatly reduced them
from the immediate post-war high-water
mark.
Mr. Wilson, a Liberal member from
S.A., quoted the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s figures in the sales-tax debate, and
the application to them of Dr. Evatt’s
own figures of taxation levied demon-
strates the falsity of his argument.
National income and total taxation
compare thus:
Nat. Income. Total Tax.
1948-49 . . .. £1,938,000,000 £504,000,000
1951-53 . „ .. 3,358,000,000 863,000,000
As a percentage of the national income
Dr. Evatt’s Government’s total taxation
was 26 per cent., and the Menzies Gov-
ernment’s today is 26.4/per cent. Con-
sidering the increase in population during
the interval, the average per capita tax
would actually show a reduction.
Total market expenditure and sales tax
collected compare thus:
Market Exp. Sales Tax.
1948-49 .. . . £3,351,000,000 £43,000,000
1951-53 .. . . 5,080,000,000 88,000,000
As a percentage of trading done Dr.
Evatt’s Government’s sales-tax levies
were 1.3 per cent, and the Menzies Gov-
ernment’s today is 1.7 per cent.
When it is remembered that taxation
has to take care of social-service expendi-
ture vastly increased since the Chifley
Government’s day and the Korean war
costs then non-existent—neither of which
items Dr. Evatt suggests reducing—the
speciousness of his attack becomes even
more obvious.
Does "Labor" Like Pimps?
When a batch of Sydney suburban shop-
keepers were prosecuted for keeping
their shops—in some cases portion of
their shops—open after the statutory
closing-hours there was talk of asking
questions in Parliament to find out
whether it was a fact that half the fines
in such cases went to union funds. There
was no need to ask Parliament; a magis-
trate made it clear that this was the case
where a prosecution resulted from infor-
mation supplied by a union-official. The
principal union concerned—the Shop
Assistants —maintained that it was merely
exercising in the protection of its mem-
bers the rights given it by law, and that,
in any case, its share didn’t amount to
much and it was out of pocket through
policing the Act.
The common informer has quite an
ancient pedigree, but he has never been
an admired figure. When the anti-
Communist legislation was under fire last
year speaker after speaker in the “Labor”
party expressed disgust and abhorrence
at the thought that it would place the
community at the mercy of pimps. Yet
N. S. Wales “Labor” apparently, far
from sharing this feeling towards pimps,
encourages unionists to become pimps
and unions to accept a reward for pimp-
ing. Two years ago it amended its Shops
and Factories Act to permit prosecutions
to be launched “by the secretary of an
industrial union of employers or em-
ployees whose members are engaged in
the industry concerned.”
Where does this end? If the Shop
Assistants can prosecute and reap the
benefit of informing, why shouldn’t the
principle be extended? Traffic-cops could
get 50 per cent, of traffic-fines, publicans
could benefit by informing on night-club
proprietors and sly-grog joints—having
first supplied them with the goods—and
bookies could earn a little on the side by
“putting-in” s.-p. merchants. Tram- and
train-passengers who reported fare-
dodgers would naturally get half the fare
and half the fine, with, possibly, a
framed certificate from the Transport
Department, and youngsters reporting
their classmates who played the wag to
go to a football-match would merit, at
least, a half-holiday. If the profession of
pimping is to be encouraged at all it
should not be a close preserve for the
favored few. Let’s all be in it!
Back-door Socialisation
The N.S.W. tax-axe falls on long-distance
road transport today when, by virtue of
the reimposition of 3d.-a-ton-mile tax, the
cost of a load of goods from Sydney to
Melbourne by road will jump £3 a ton.
This tax, imposed years ago as a penal
tax on road transport to save the railways
from road competition (the tax is paid to
the railways), was suspended some time
ago when it was obvious the railways
couldn’t handle the goods offering. It has
been reimposed because of huge railway
losses, and with it goes a total ban on
the carriage of wool, beer and certain
metal products by road.
In Victoria and South Australia taxes
are not so heavy, but the railway-minded
Governments have introduced bans on
road-carriage. In Adelaide nobody can
get a permit for road-haulage unless he
can supply officialdom with “a good
reason why the goods should not go by
rail or sea transport.”
Commenting on all this, Adelaide
Advertiser” mildly calls it a “retrograde
step,” and holds that “elimination of road
services would leave the whole industrial
machinery of the Commonwealth
weaker.
It might have used stronger language
had it known that, in N.S.W. at least, the
railways have built up a fleet of over
300 road trucks capable of carrying from
three to 15 tons, and are using them to
carry goods on long hauls—goods for
which private trucks can’t get permits,
this blows out the claim that the N.S.W.
tax , aod bans are to protect the railways,
and is plain evidence that the N.S.w’
Government means to socialise the road-
transport industry. Anybody who wants
to know what will happen to road-
transport charges if that happens need
only look at N.S.W. railway fares and
freights—especially freights.
Princes and Their Pay
“D.E.”: The Bulletin’s “T. the R.,” of
affectionate memory, used to be fond of
quoting a stanza of William Watson’s,
now, I suppose, forgotten except by some
of his surviving, contemporaries; —
Prince, we have read of many and mighty
things
In those eight hundred summers of
renown.
Since the gold dragon of the Wessex kings
On Hastings field went down.
Let a disciple of “T. the R.” drop into
doggerel over N.S.W. “Labor” Premier
Cahill’s unique reference to the princes of
his stonebroke Transport departments—
“the public must have transport, and the
Government must pay the princely wages
laid down by the law of the land”: —
Eating and Thinking
Apart from being vaguely aware that
wool had something to do with their
welfare, urban people of Australia have
been woefully ignorant of the land, its
problems, and its impact on their lives
for a generation. Until the last few
years this ignorance didn’t bother them.
Now it does. Food prices in particular,
and other things in general, have set
them thinking.
City people are now eager to read any-
thing or listen to anything about farm-
ing, land-use, food-production, rural
economics and all the rest of it. Profes-
sors, journalists, politicians, statisticians,
broadcasters, film-makers, economists and
experts of one kind and another now
pour out a continuous stream of facts,
near-facts, theories, guesses, plans and
schemes all with the single purpose of
explaining how land-settlement can be
expanded and rural Australia made to
produce more.
A distressing proportion of all this
stuff is plain rubbish. The most non-
sensical rubbish is the repeated claim that
Australia couldn’t support more than
25 million people. But there i$ also a
solid proportion of soundly-based sen-
sible, provocative and challenging infor-
mation, and to this there is now added
‘‘The Fight for Food,” a report in booklet
form of a convention at Albury (N.S.W.)
by the National Catholic Rural Move-
ment,
In its 129 pages the booklet compresses
un astonishing amount of information
and thought. Both information and
thought are open to challenge, and that’s
the way it ought to be. For unless Aus-
tralians begin challenging a lot of
accepted beliefs and statements, and
thinking about their soil and what is
happening to it and what sundry people
plan for it, it’s possible that a lot of
them will become too hungry to think
about anything.
C.O.R. Decision
The Commonwealth Government is just
as right in disposing of the merchant
business of selling petrol—which is what
C.O.R. had become —as in selling the
radio-manufacturing business which was
all that was left of A.W.A.
The “Labor” hullabaloo over the
sacrifice of C.0.R.” as an essential
defence project is both hypocritical and
foolish. “Labor” opposed the original
investment in the old Anglo-Persian
Company 30 years ago, and during the
late war the “Labor” Government did not
use C.O.R.’s midget refinery in Victoria
to produce a single gallon of petrol for
defence or any other use. Dr. Evatt’s
threat that a future “Labor” Government
will unscramble these eggs is merely silly.
Mr. Menzies disclosed that Anglo-
Iranian’s big new refinery in Westralia
would have required a further Common-
wealth Government investment of some
£12,000,000 if the Government were to
maintain its full interest in a concern
which, moreover, would no longer be the
old C.0.R., and that the Government’s
legal advice pointed to doubts whether
the Government could validly appropriate
public money for this enterprise, anyway.
The Menzies Government was elected on
a policy of retreat from “Labor’s” expen-
sive and universal nationalisation projects
for nationalisation’s sake, and it is only
carrying out its undertakings endorsed at
two' successive elections.
As for A.W.A., the Government took
over the whole of the overseas com-
munication business of that semi-
Goyernmental undertaking and sold
merely its share in the remaining factory
interest.
A Ghost Will Rise
Some members of Parliament are
notorious for their habit of slandering
private citizens under cloak of privilege.
The charge or innuendo goes over the air
and is enshrined in Hansard; the victim
has no redress, and a challenge to “say it
outside” is normally met with a horse-
laugh. Such M.P.’s as Mr. Ward, of the
Brisbane-Line lie, have developed a
special technique in this sort of thing,
despite the deterrents introduced by Mr.
Speaker Cameron early in his term of
office.
Sometimes, of course, in pursuance of
his duty, and upon information, which
he sincerely believes to be reliable, a
member makes a charge in good faith
and finds himself mistaken. But it is only
rarely that there is a satisfactory apology,
and as often as not there is none at aU,
and the situation is met by evasion.
Last week, however, electors encoun-
tered a phenomenon and were provided
with a sensation in Parliamentary news
of the, order of “man bites dog.”
Mr. William Charles Wentworth, M.P.
for Mackellar and the direct senior heir
of the founder of the Australian Consti-
tution, found that he had been mistaken
in thinking that a woman author was a
current member of the Communist party.
The lady admitted that she had long
ago been a member of the party
for a brief period for literary purposes,
but denied that she was still a member,
and said that she was at enmity with the
party and its views. Mr. Wentworth ad-
mitted himself wrong, and, finding that
his expression of willingness to waive
privilege was ineffective, since privilege,
in regard to a speech made in the House,
cannot be waived, offered to provide the
aggrieved lady’s solicitors with evidence
that he had repeated the statement “out-
side,” so that she could exercise her legal
(Continued on next page.)
Bring on your bottled beer,
Nor let the price dismay ;
For we have lived to hear
A Labor Premier say
“There must be transport {mixed);
Don’t ask the losses, pray !
The princely wages fixed
My Government has to pay.
“Our princes poets range;
They make a proud array ;
But times and customs change :
Now porters get their pay.
“Tribunal stern, thou kick’st
Us — where / won’t betray:
The princely wages fixed
Poor Labor’s got to pay."


rights if she felt so inclined, and as he
thought she was entitled to do.
The derision and ribaldry of the
Opposition while Mr. Wentworth was
making his apology and offer show how
low “Labor” standards have fallen in
these matters. The voices of Mr. Ward
and of Mr. Haylen, who is always so
free with charges of “Fascism” and
sedition against his opponents, under the
privilege of Parliament, soared above the
rest. There appeared to be behind all the
jeering noise a sense of frustration, as if
Mr. Wentworth’s interrupters felt that he
was scabbing on Canberra tradition and
retaliation from those attacked with it.
It will be a long time before any of
the irresponsible libellers of the Ward
type can indulge their normal tactics
against defenceless outsiders without the
ghost of Mr. Wentworth’s precedent in
honesty and fairplay rising to haunt
them.
POLITICAL POINTS
Describing the sale of the Government’s
C.O.R. shares as “a thoroughly bad busi-
ness” Opposition-leader Evatt said that
it was better that Anglo-Iranian should
be the buyer rather than any other party,
as this would give the people of Australia
the chance “to repair the position in the
future.” This would be “a duty on the
part of a future Government.” Translated
into Persian this probably means that if
he becomes Prime Minister he will form
an alliance with Dr. Moussadek.
• •
Maps of some of the proposed N. S.
Wales electoral boundaries display
examples of re-entrant angles which any
Queensland electorate would be proud
to own.
• •
Speaking at a dinner given him by the
Institute of Public Relations, Premier
Cahill had one of those lapses into
commonsense and candor which dis-
tinguish him from his predecessor, the
McGrrrrr. He said that this country’s
post-war honeymoon was over, and that
Australians must now do a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay. That is a
gratifying, if belated, awakening, but if
the Premier realises the honeymoon is
over, why does he keep on asking Menzies
to finance its extension?
• •
At Billy’s birthday-party P.M. Menzies
said: “Unpredictable he may be, but
dull he couldn’t be if he tried. He is one
of those who has become a legend in his
own lifetime.” Doc. Evatt: “A great
Commonwealth man with imagination ;
he warned against perils before most
people were aware of them.” S’ Artie
Fadden: “I once asked Mr. Hughes if
he had ever tried to join the Country
party. He replied that he had to draw
the line somewhere.” Billy himself: "If
the standard of living is to be raised
further it must come from the output of
the average man and woman.”
• •
Before long Queenslanders won’t be
able to have a drink of milk without a
permit. A “reconstituted” bill gives the
Milk Board up there (1) power to compel
everybody connected with the produc-
tion, supply and distribution of milk to
yield to board-control, and (2) to declare
any part of the State a “milk district.”
Goat-herds around places like Windorah
and Charters Towers had better watch
themselves.
• •
The formula for the millennium as out-
lined by Mr. D. C. Kidd, M.H.R., a
Government supporter, in Maoriland :
Take the Wheat Board, add the Apple
and Pear Board and whip up soundly with
the Egg Board, mix in the Milk Board,
slice in the Meat Board and, if wanted a
little more savory, add the Rabbit Board.
To make the dish more palatable throw
in the Honey Board. To stiffen the mix-
ture, and to prove that we still have
potatoes, add the Potato Board. Then, if
too thick, pour in the Catchment Board,
and, finally, when you have added all the
ingredients, drown the whole lot in
the Water Board.
It’s not as simple as that in Australia ;
we have Commonwealth as well as State
boards.
• •
Victorian “Labor” radio 3KZ no longer
follows Doc. Evatt’s Sunday-night chat
with “BelieVe It or Not.” The pro-
gramme order now is: “7.10 —Talk by
Dr. Evatt, 7.15 —Question-mark?”
• •
First fruits of the Commonwealth’s
retirement from the land-tax field will
apparently be apples; at any rate they’re
to be harvested in Tasmania. Cosgrove’s
Budget contains a provision for increas-
ing State land-tax by about 50 per cent,
of the amount formerly collected by the
Federal people. Taswegians will also pay
higher stamp-duties, motor-tax and —
cruellest blow of all —a bigger lottery
tax.
• ®
Newspaper headline: “P.M. Expects
Report on Atom Tests.” Naturally, and
a pretty loud one, too,
• •
Eddie Graham, N.S.W. Minister for
Agriculture, must have found it hard to
remain pleasant when a wheatgrowers’
deputation called to ask him to get the
Cahills to agree to a new home-consump-
tion price for wheat which would put
bread up by 3d. or 4d. a 21b. loaf. Don't
the cockles know next year is an N.S.W.
election year?
• •
Having something new to sell in a
highly-competitive field an oil company
began a big advertising campaign. Two
South Australian politicians of opposing
parties expressed themselves in the
Adelaide Parliament as wanting it stopped
or controlled. It was a legitimate branch
of a firm’s business and nothing to do
with any politician. But it shows how the
idea has grown that Governments should
have a finger in every pie.
• •
A lot of people got a scare when a
taxation-expert announced that the Taxa-
tion Department had made an error in
the tax-deduction scale and hadn’t taken
enough money. Then they breathed
again; it applied only to those earning
£54 a week or more.
- • •
For a man who has such a remarkable
lot to say Bert Evatt really says
remarkably little.
• •
Earle Page was in first-class rebutting
form last week. When Morgan, “Labor”
M. for Blaxland (N.S.W.), fired off
a question about N. S. Wales hospitals
being short of finance he replied that if
N. had accepted the Commonwealth’s
hospital-scheme when first invited in
January, 1950, it would now be £3i
million better off—almost exactly the
amount by which its Hospitals Commis-
sion is reported to be short. His second
score was in connection with the C.O.R.
sale. “Labor,” he claimed, was hypo-
critical on this issue. It was now crying
“betrayal,” yet it had opposed participa-
tion in C.O.R. when the company was
first established, and when in office during
the war it had made no use of the refinery
at Laverton (Vic.).
• •
After the Victorian Parliamentary
L.-C.P. had expelled ex-Premier Hollway,
party-leader Norman commented that
Hollway had “deliberately discredited the
party at a time when it was involved in
two key by-elections.” Surely the L.-C.P.
had-already discredited itself by keeping
the minority McDonald group in office
after it had spent 18 months condemning
“Labor” for doing the same thing.
Hollway’s expulsion was agreed to by
23 votes to nine, and when he left the
meeting seven other members walked out
with him. Four were Assemblymen—
Dawnay-Mould, Dennett, Hipworth and
Tovell —and three —Gartside, Ludbrook
and McLeod were M.L.C.’s. The
position at the top of Spring-street there-
fore remains very uncertain. McDonald
still holds control of the Lower House,
but if the three Hollway men wish to
they can make things very awkward for
the Government in the Council. There
could still be an election before
Christmas.
• •
Keith Ewart, “Labor” candidate for
Flinders, was not behindhand in follow-
ing his leader’s example of calamity-
crying. He told a Frankston audience that
next year children would be turned away
from schools in the electorate, explaining
of course that Federal financial policy
would be to blame. He didn’t say who
gave him this alarming piece of informa-
tion. It couldn’t have been John Cain,
although he was on the platform with
Ewart —he doesn’t decide the McDonald
Government’s policy any longer.
• •
Shakspeare and roses notwithstanding,
Blowering Dam sounds more like a mild
expletive than a national work.
•’ •
Extract from N. S. Wales “Hansard”
on the matter of late-closing:
Mr. Finnan: Recently some odd charac-
ters have been glorified by the local Press
for saying that they were going to break
the law.
Mr. Askin: Tut-tut!
Mr. Finnan ; I should like to know who
was the honorable member who tut-tutted.
Mr. Speaker: Order! I know who he
was, and if he does so again I shall call
him to order.
Mr. Finnan: Those inane and unfor-
tunate tut-tuts clearly show that the hon.
member who uttered them has neither the
intelligence nor the ability to make a
proper interjection!
Tut-tut!
• ' •
Minister for Social Services Townley
said on Thursday that in mid-August
unemployment-benefit applications had
dropped 602 in a week and 684 the fol-
lowing week ; they had then risen 480,
dropped 880 and another 117 in the week
before he spoke. The announcement
didn’t get headlines, though had the
figures been for rising applications it
would have been splashed on posters.
• •
To be consistent, Doc. Evatt and Fixer
Ashley should attack their friend Cahill
for disposing of Government assets —the
State Tileworks and the Hotel Kosciusko.
The former has been leased to a private
concern ; the latter, destroyed by fire, is
apparently to be rebuilt by private enter-
prise. Both have been as confirmed losers
of taxpayers’ money as Glen Davis was.
• •
Election-day today in Japan is much
like election-day in Victoria due to the
confusion of parties. The divided Gov-
ernment Liberal party, headed by Yoshida
and split by Hatayama, seemed the best
bet when the last airmail left Tokyo. The
Socialist Left and Right wings were
engaged in a faction fight, and the new
Progressive party under Shigemitsu was
voted to have scarce a hope. As in Vic-
toria, each leader has been proclaiming
loudly that if there is no absolute majority
there will be no coalition. But self-
preservation is the first law of nature in
Tokyo as in Melbourne.
• •
“Ek Dum” has his guess:
All the “experts” on Communism in the
London Press are guessing hard, “Who will
succeed Stalin?” Joe is not dead yet, and
by the look of the new party-rules no one
man will get his full powers at once when he
is, though there will be some presiding genius.
Zhdanov was the hot favorite in 1948 when he
died —The Bulletin picked him years before
he was drawn into the limelight by putting
through the thesis on the alteration of the
party-rules at the 1939 Congress. Molotov is
senior deputy-Premier, with Malenkov, but it
is to be noticed that in the list of Politbureau
members elected to the Congress to meet on
October 5 the first name after Stalin’s is that
of N. P.- Kruschev, who is to produce the
thesis explaining the atomic reorganisation of
the rules which is to be put through. He
thus has Zhdanov’s old job—the most
important at the meeting—and it is significant
that his name has risen from the bottom of
the Politbureau official list in 1951 to the top
in 1952.
• •
Governments, says Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” are understandably concerned over
railway deficits. True, the public can
understand the concern ; what they can’t
understand are the deficits.
• •
Queensland Treasurer Walsh, announc-
ing an estimated Budget deficit of
£288,319 for, the coming year, said that
if there were three more quarterly adjust-
ments of 6s. a week during the rest of the
financial year the Government would be
down another £750,000. If Walsh placed
any reliance on the inflation-talk of his
Federal “Labor” colleagues he’d be mak-
ing provision for all that and a lot more
besides. But it isn’t surprising that he
doesn’t believe ’em. They don’t really
believe themselves.
' • •
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Treatt on the
Cahill Government’s food drive: “Instead
of putting money into land-settlement
projects it has brought to the food-
production problem its old stock solution.
It has set-up another authority with a
high-sounding title, namely, a Food
Council.” Well, if the worst comes to
the worst the members should make good
soup.
• •
A travel organisation asked N.S.W.
Transport Department to quote a price
for taking a busload of 32 passengers on
a round trip Sydney to Wollongong.
Figure quoted was £4l. The same concern
asked a private company for a price.
Answer, £25, which included road-tax
imposed -to protect the Government trans-
port system against competition from
private transport.
• •
Forced to face the unpleasant fact that
economies are necessary, N. S. Wales
Ministers are suddenly discovering that
there has been extravagance in their
departments. Transport Minister Sheahan
was the first; now Minister for Health
O’Sullivan is on the track of waste and
extravagance in the administration of
hospitals. This has followed upon the
failure of the N. S. Wales “Labor” Gov-
ernment to persuade the Commonwealth
to agree to its extravagant “gimme”
demands. Had Cahill got all the money
he asked for, this “waste and extrava-
gance” could have gone on till Domesday
without a Minister admitting it existed.
Now that Transport and Health have
made a start, other Ministers should get
cracking, too. And not only Stale
Ministers!
• •
Figures on the Burdekin Dam project
in Queensland show how Premiers lost
their heads in the 1950 boom. In August,
1949, the estimated cost was £29 mil-
lion for a dam 138 ft. high. By July,
1951, apparently due to an assumption
that there was as much money about as
water in the Burdekin, the dam height
was raised 12ft. and the planners came in
with expansive ideas. The estimate was
then revised to £7O million. That sort of
thing happened with State works every-
where, and when the bubble burst the
Premiers said it was all Menzies’s fault.
• •
No one will be surprised if there are
fewer Good Samaritan motorists in Vic-
toria as a sequel to the Supreme Court
award of £19,500 damages to a car-
accident victim. Under ordinary policies
a “picked-up” passenger is covered only
to the extent of £2OOO, so that if the victim
in this case had been somebody the
driver had picked-up that unfortunate
would find himself under an obligation
to find £17,500. The Samaritan in the
Bible story put the wounded wayfarer on
his donkey and walked behind; under
Victorian law if the wayfarer had fallen
off and broken his leg he would have had
a case against his helper.
The fantastic futility of Dr. Evatt’s
United Nations Organisation was never
shown more clearly than by the Security
Council’s refusal to admit Japan to
U.N.O. Ten voters were in favor. A
minority of one —the U.S.S.R.—was
against. And under the veto system the
U.S.S.R. carried the resolution.
• •
A Bulletin reader who claims that he
listens to broadcasts of Senate debates
from a sense of duty writes that, although
he has never yet succeeded in so doing,
he is determined to persevere until he
succeeds in staying awake to the end of
the broadcast.
• •
Cahill, in an apparently frank if
indiscreet moment, complained that one
of the reasons for the high cost of public
transport was that “the Government must
pay the princely wages laid down by the
law of the land.” The Arbitration Court
is at present considering a claim by
certain employers for a reduction in the
basic wage. Is the N. S. Wales Premier,
in his official capacity as the biggest
employer of labor in his State, prepared
to go into court and support that claim?
He need not suggest a very big cut in
the princely rate; a reduction to a ducal
scale might get his railways out of bother.
• •
“Labor” members cheered when Billy
Hughes sided with them against the Gov-
ernment on the issue of disposing of
C.O.R. shares. Billy was sticking to a
principle, as he did when he left the
“Labor” party over conscription. No
one begrudges W.M.H. his right to an
opinion on C.O.R. After all, he founded
the show.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
* Slim”: We legged it 80 miles down
from Waldheim to Lake St. Clair (Tas.)
and invested crumbling resources in the
Derwent Bridge bar. Investments bore
dividends in the form of a lift westward
with two hefty gentlemen in a roomy
sedan. They were M.P.’s due at Queens-
town next day for the annual firemen’s
competitions. As we shot west they im-
proved the occasion by rehearsing the
morrow’s speeches, which rustled with
seals and parchment. My mate and I
talked about world economics to gain
prestige. We wondered loudly which
accountant we ought to call in this year
to help with income-tax. We talked like
financiers on a fling instead of stony-
brokes with billycans. As we neared
Queenstown the politicians asked where
we meant to spend the night. “Oh, some
hotel,” said my mate. “We’ll drop you
at the siding,” explained one M.P. “You
get through a window into a passenger-
carriage.” “Failing that,” said the second
M.P., “you’ll find planks loose behind the
shower-room at the sportsground.”
Later, as we unrolled sleepbags on mas-
sage-tables in the sportsground pavilion
and took showers before turning in, we
asked each other where else in the world
could politicians dispense this sort of
information.
♦♦♦ <♦ ♦♦♦
“Tandan”; Best-known sign round
Adelaide for two generations has been
that of a dry-cleaner and dyer claiming
“I dye to live,” but over the years others
have added to the joy of the sign-reading
public—such as a nurseryman’s “Our
Business Is Growing,” and a signwriter’s
“You’ll Learn This Sign by Hart.” Now
a Port Adelaide fishmonger has capped
the lot by using his name in the state-
ment “Fish Have Gills Have Fish.”
“Doric”: One of Sydney’s depart-
mental stores is advertising “Pedigree
Ddlls” for sale. I’ve heard of a pedigree
dogs, horses, etc., but how a doll can
trace its ancestry has me puzzled. Is
there snobbery among dolls? Does one
hear this sort of thing among ’em? “We
came out on the First we
weren’t convicts, either,” or “My dear,
she has a touch of the tar-brush —her
father was a golliwog, you know.” Any-
how, a doll’s family-tree must be a one-
sided affair —whoever heard of a “Papa”
doll?,
❖ <♦
“Meme Chose”: Here in rural France
those who knew Wilhelm’s war on the
Somme and in Flanders would see few
changes in some of the villages in which
they had their rest-billets behind the line.
Still the same manure-heaps in the court-
yards, the same stray dogs. Madame at
the bakery continues to sell her flat oval
loaves, and cuts them dangerously towards
herself as she slices them. The estaminet,
often unpainted and as shabby as ever,
with the tiled stove in the middle, will
serve you with a bowl of coffee, tasting
as it ever did and made even today with
roasted barley kernels. You can also
have bock from the local brasserie, and,
of course, cider and wine. Unending rows
of poplars link village to village, cemetery
to cemetery, and occasionally traces of
old trenches can be seen. There are
poppies still. Nothing much in the way
of sanitation even in newly-built cottages,
although their wood and iron often come
from old military hutments: and never a
bathroom. Elderly women, dressed in
rusty black and wearing floppy slippers,
preside at the market-stalls ; their menfolk
are absent all day, bent over their rows
of beetroot or tending the good old
pommes de terre. Old men, depressed
and disillusioned, sit out-of-doors on the
threshold of their homes and they are
eager to recall World War I, but taciturn
and reserved when it comes to War 11.
A cassocked priest hurries along the street
DIMM STORE
m
df
“You chuck da brick—you breaka my diamonds!”
with friendly greetings to right and left:
the Angelus will shortly sound. It hasn’t
changed much,
❖ *l*
“S.J.”; lohn Alden, now touring Aus-
tralia in Shakspeare, reports that one bit
of “King Lear” was really a riot in Can-
berra. It was: “Get thee glass eyes, and,
like a scurvy politician, seem to see the
things thou dost not.”
❖ ❖
“Spokeshave”: The “Medical Journal”
has debunked another romantic illusion.
In an editorial it says “If it is true that
the dogs of the hospice of the Great St.
Bernard Pass carried a flask of brandy,
then it may be said at once and with
emphasis that no worse treatment of the
chilled mountain wayfarer could be de-
vised.” The reason it gives is that the
happy glow of warmth one feels after
taking alcohol on a cold day is caused by
blood flooding from the sheltered regions
of the body to the chilled skin, the
temperature of the body having actually
been lowered by the liquor. The physi-
ology may be right, but it seems to me
that they are leaving out the psychologi-
cal factor. I have dined throughout many
Melbourne winters in an unwarmed
room—unwarmed because the chimney
smokes and nobody has shown the initia-
"I suppose the men are as bad as us when THEY get together."
tive to have the darn thing reconstructed.
The sight of the empty grate always
makes me shudder, but after I have
tucked half a bottle of wine inside me I
don’t know whether I am warm, but I
certainly feel warm, which is all that
matters.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nunk”: Sydney trams are in no better
plight than the old Cook’s Straits
steamers, of which it was written: “The
age, construction, or condition of these
boats, and the south-easters, are all
decidedly in favor of their going down ;
the fares are high and the accommoda-
tion is small and dirty. It is always the
same where there is no competition.” If
there is any need to back J. C. James's
contention that “there is no evidence to
suggest that Henry was enthusiastic after
the turn of the century about the Labor
party” (B. 24/9/’52), this quotation, and
what follows, from his story “Across the
Straits” should do.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Taswegian”; Oddities of speech (B.
24/9/’52)? Here are a couple I found
common among South Australians. One
is the habit of ending a sentence on a
rising note; for the first few days I
thought each one was a question. Then,
to express surprise, or to give emphasis,
the word “dicken” is used: “Dicken?”
“Dicken he did.” This may, of course,
come from “By Dickens” (the immortal
Charles); but it’s queer that South Aus-
tralia seems to be the only State where
it is used.
♦♦♦ ❖ *
“Tom Trout” (London): Absent from
Australia since before the present wave
of migration started, I’m wondering
whether or not the vocal characteristics of
the cities have noticeably changed. Of
my first few weeks in London I remember
distinctly the overwhelming impression of
persistent variety in speech, for which the
occasional Irish or Scots or what-have-
you accent heard in Sydney or Melbourne
had done little to prepare me. There was
at first a quaint fascination about it, as
if the city were peopled solely from plays,
everyone speaking in a character voice,
from music-hall Cockney up to Noel
Coward. This unreality soon became
irritating, engendering a furtive desire
to shout to all and sundry: “0.K., mates,
I’ve heard your act, and your dialect’s
wonderful, but now, for Pete’s sake, get
back to your normal voices!” But time
has cured that.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jasby”: Don’t ask me what it means
—l’m only the bloke who heard it as I
passed along the narrow suburban street
across which two housewives were having
a friendly, if somewhat public, chat.
Quoth one: “You’ve no idea of the agony
I went through. I was in suspension for
six months, and then they had to deflate
me.” Now was she talking about the
after-effects of a day out in the lucerne-
paddock, or was it that she’d been used
as a barrage-balloon over war-time
London? I’ll never know, because all the
other lady said was “Fancy that, now.”
♦J+ +♦♦ *X*
“Blue P.”: Bob, like Old Jim (B.
24/9/’52), made “My word” cover the
whole range of his emotional expres-
sion ; except when he was deeply moved.
Then it became “My very word!,”
* ❖ *
“Bogaduck”: Looking in on a class
being instructed in Yankee square-
dancing made me think that the moderns
could learn something from the old Irish-
man who taught dancing in my day. His
daughter would start to rumpity-tum on
the piano, then the old boy would move
among the couples on the floor, doing a
solo dance and singing his instructions
in verse. They would go something like
this;
Doo, doo, kape in toime wiff the music, do.
And Bridget get hold of your gintlgmqn
properly,
Doodle-de-doodle-de-doodlee-do.
Sammy, kape your heels off the flor-a-or-
or-ah-or,
Peter, don’t bend at the knee-ah-ah-ees,
Judy, stop wobbling your backside about,
Mary, don’t talk while dancing, please I
He would improvise like that right
through the lesson. Only when I told the
yarn years later, mimicking the old boy
to the best of my ability, did the roars
of laughter which it evoked show me that
it must have been very humorous. We
youngsters, being used to ft, took it fot
granted.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Swelpme”: A voice from behind me
in the train: “Jack So-and-so still workin’
at your joint?” Second voice: “Didn’t
you hear? Got the shunt, he did—and
all through a dirty bludgin’ thie'f. You
wouldn’t read about it! He dropped in
the rubbidydub after work; just got his
beer when he sights a bloke shobtin’
through with his case. He rushes out and
there’s the bloke gettin’ in a car. A
copper’s standin’ on the footpath; Jack
hollers: ‘That feller’s pinched me case!’
The copper springs to it, jumps on his
motor-bike and chases the car. Down the
road a bit he stops ’em, and when Jack
catches up, the bloke’s tryin’ to put it
over that the case is his—or one the dead-
spit of his. The cop tells Jack to describe
the contents of his case. Jack says: ‘Aw,
there’s nothin’ much in it, but I know me
own case,’ The other bloke keeps up the
bluff, so the cop insists. Well, you know
them whatsernames they make at our
place? Jack had two of ’em in his case,
and the dirty slop went and dobbed him
in.” First voice, incredulously: “And
Jack done his job over it?” “Yair —and
all through a low-heel flamin’ thief!”
“F.S.”: The Victorian Supreme Court
established an Australian record when it
awarded £19,500 to a Melbourne newsboy
for the loss of both his legs, which had to
be amputated after a car struck him when
he was cranking-up his own car. It was
the highest road-accident verdict ever
awarded to an Australian claimant.
*t* ❖ ❖
“Howie Wing”: Westralian educators
are launching another attack on comics,
the usual horrible results being predicted
if their use continues, with “sex precocity”
thrown in for good measure. How any-
one could learn anything about sex from
Superman and Co. is hard to see. At
best the heroes’ girl-friends only appear
as a scarcely-needed motive for the
glorious scenes of slaughter and destruc-
tion they inspire. There is talk of
“grading” comics for parents’ benefit, also
—that wbrd beloved of bureaucrats—
“banning.” If the dominies really want
to stop children from reading the things
they only have to put comics on the
curriculum, with a test every Friday, three
exams a year and a set of stereotyped
academic lectures.
CAKE-AND-EAT-IT
“Cahill seeks more loan money for dam.”
When war and want had gone their way.
The “Labor” view was bright dnd
sunny ;
With fewer hours, and higher pay,
They didn’t give a damn for money.
The sterile fruit of this enjoyment
Boiled into a financial jam,
And, fearful, then, of unemployment,
They asked for money for a dam.
Alas, the pig precedes the ham
As working-bees precede the honey :
You can’t have money for a dam
Unless you have a dam for money.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“P.O.M.C”: Melbourne may be
puzzled about the increased demand for
garlic (B. 10/9 / ’52), but there’s no
mystery about the sudden popularity of
that vegetable in Sydney. During the
recent virus influenza epidemic otherwise-
abstaining people were using the potent
stuff both as preventive and cure. A
comical cove in our office, who reckoned
he’d been under three doctors and had
tried every known patent medicine and
still had his ’flu, took raw garlic in sand-
wiches one day and was quite plainly
restored to health the next. He entered
the office walking on his hands to prove
it. But, while nobody had minded his
breathing the disease around the place, all
of us complained about the cure —even
the red-tape on the files he handled reeked
of it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo” : As the summer progresses and
my front hedge of Red Radiances gets
taller and thicker the deliverer of my
morning paper will naturally do his best
to hurl his projectile as deeply in among
the thorns as his combination of eagle-
eye and muscular arm will permit. Per-
force in early spring he has to seek alter-
native targets for his marksmanship, and
his tally of young aster seedlings along
a border is 11 decapitated out of a
possible 14 —not bad shooting. Some
hardy crucifix orchids near by he scorns
as being too easy, whilst a tough diosma
need never fear copping a rabbit-punch
from a 11b. Sunday paper. I haven’t, of
course, been silly enough to replace the
slaughtered asters until my decoy is ready,
and I pride myself that the round concrete
slab painted with sickly-looking Phlox
drummondii, which shortly shall each
morning decorate the centre of the front
lawn —on which he would never dream
of tossing the rag—will attract his daily
and futile fire. I wish I could be up in
time to savor to the full the look of
savage frustration that will be his as he
sees the phlox refusing to be bowled over,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Banker’s Wife”: A small black purse
picked up on Hobart’s regatta-ground
took me to the police-tent, where the
line-up of lost children astounded me.
The police were having a struggle to get
information out of one little tacker.
“What’s your name, sonny?” he was
asked. Violent sobs. “Who were
with when you got lost?” “Me farver.”*
“What is your father’s name?” Renewed
sobbing. “Well, what’s your father like?”
At this the grubby knuckles were re-
moved from the reddened eyes to reveal
a tear-grimed face. “Beer an’ cigarettes
an’ going to the dawgs,” he gulped.
♦♦♦
“Glen”: Partly as a hobby and partly
with a view to profit, the retired school-
ma’am took up poultrykeeping. Before
long the Egg Board people discovered she
was keeping chooks and had not regis-
tered ; they sent her a searching and
involved questionnaire. But not for
nothing had the lady spent years dealing
with unruly kids and the excuses of their
parents. She wrote across the ques-
tionnaire; “I am illiterate and therefore
cannot answer your questions.” That
was months ago ; she has heard nothing
further yet.
♦♦♦ *X*
“Lemuel G.”: An inveterate patron of
sideshows, I’ll never forget my first
encounter with the Wild Man From
Borneo. It was at the Perth Royal Show
round about 1925, and being assured by
the spruiker that the Wild Man was
safely chained to a post, although danc-
ing on 20,000 broken bottles and chew-
ing raw meat, I decided to risk it. Inside
the tent there was sur? enough, a
horrible and hirsute semi-human suck-
ing a shin of beef and shuffling his bare
feet gently on some carefully-rounded
glass fragments. Occasionally he glared
and roared something unintelligible at the
fascinated spectators. Beside me, breath-
ing heavily in astonishment, stood a
farmer from the wheat-belt. After a few
minutes, as though to convince himself
that it wasn’t all some terrible dream, he
gave the Wild Man a shove in the ribs
with a walking-stick. Wildie dashed the
shin-bone to the ground, spun round,
opened his mouth and asked ferociously
“Who the hell d’ you think you’re prod-
ding, mate?”
♦♦♦ ❖
“Macnell”: It is pleasant to see that
the British Navy has stood-fast against
the importunings of its young fleet-mate
across the Atlantic. Nelson ordered his
signal for action at Trafalgar to be
hoisted “close-up,” and now the N.A.T.O.
admiral, if necessary, will do the same.
And the British columns will still “wheel”
in manoeuvre. The Old Firm has struck
its colors in the spelling of “harbor,” but,
as it gave radar, the variable-time fuse,
the complete procedure for carrier flight-
deck operations and other little details to
Uncle Sam’s Navy, one need not feel too
hardly about this lapse. And, though
the palates of British tars might conceiv-
ably look kindly upon the possible intro-
“ Gentlemen — I'm deputising for the boss.”
duction of rum and coca-cola, as a
friendly gesture to co-operation, one may
sleep soundly in the conviction that
Britain’s shield will have no truck with an
ordinance —like that of Josephus Daniels
—which might attempt to delete the
stronger ingredient. Let Uncle Sam —
or Uncle Joe —try!
*** ♦+♦ ♦♦♦
“Padre”: Some may possibly have
wondered at the statement in a Seppelt’s
cover-story on a recent Bulletin that a
tower of Caerphilly Castle was damaged
by an explosion in 1326, as the earliest
recorded use of gunpowder in Europe was
some years after that date. The explana-
tion lies in the nature of the explosion.
When the castle was besieged by rebel
barons the forces of Edward II poured
molten metal down on the besiegers from
furnaces located in the tower. During a
temporary success the enemy gained pos-
session of the furnaces and, either from
ignorance or by design, poured water
from the moat on the molten metal.
That’s when the explosior occurred.
“Sebak”: When I read of someone
squandering a fortune my thoughts go
back over the years to the night my eldest
brother brought home his first pay. With
studied contempt he bounced the three
half-crowns on the table, paused for effect,
then nonchalantly tossed two to Mum.
His board paid, he loftily informed us
small-fry that he was keeping us out of
the gutter, bestowed a ha’penny each all
round with the air of a Rockefeller, then
announced the absolute ultimate in pro-
digality: “I’m going to have a feed of
fish-and-chips tonight—if it costs me a
BOB!”
* ❖ ***
“Ceg”; Now that typewriters and car-
bon-sheets are almost universal, I wonder
what has happened to all those heavy
iron copying-presses, without which no
office was complete? Every office seemed
to have its “strong man,” who was con-
tinually busting the darned things as he
placed his foot against the wall to get
better pressure, and then gave the poor
old press the works. My old bank had
one of these Sandows. He was, for a
time, engaged on auditing duties through-
out the eastern States, and one could
always tell whether a branch had been
fortunate enough to receive a visit from
him. He left a trail of bent pokers and
busted copying-presses from Cairns to
Colac.
* *X* ♦♦♦
“Yair”: Women lire so logical. Bill’s
wife came home gooey-eyed about a bit
of rag in a shop-window. “It’s fifteen
guineas,” she enthused, “But it’s got
such distinctive features and, of course,
you have to pay for them. It has a collar
which covers half the bodice and it has
two pockets shaped like tea-kettles!
The collar and pockets, absolutely
different /” Bill scowled and pointed out
that he couldn’t see her, always a conser-
vative dresser, wearing anything like that.
“Oh, heavens, no!” she agreed. “Once
I bought it, I’d take the collar and pockets
off, of course!”
*X* ❖ ♦♦♦
“Pongo”: “Villefair” (B. 17/9/’52) has
got his timbers slightly mixed. Around
1930 so-called genuine oak furniture was
made of Japanese or Siberian oak, but
unscrupulous cabinetmakers substituted
Tassie oak for these in sides, backs and
other less noticeable parts of suites. In
describing this furniture dealers could
truthfully speak of it as oak. However,
for N.S.W. stringybark to become Tassie
oak there’d be no need to ring the
changes, because Tassie oak is also a
stringybark, and only a real expert could
distinguish the Tassie from the N.S.W.
variety.
* ❖ ❖
“Doric”: We had arrived at Venice
by train and transhipped to a gondola to
be taken to our hotel. As we were pulling
out from the quay, there was a loud cry
of consternation from an old signor, whom
we had not noticed, and who had been
holding our craft steady. “Ma teep! Ma
teep!” he screamed in panic. “How
much will I give him?” I asked our guide.
“Ten lire will do,” he replied, so we
handed that amount to our human boat-
hook and all was peaceful once more on
the Grand Canal. However, it didn’t
make much of a hole in our budget—it
takes 50 lire to make a shilling!
» ❖ *X*
“Aestur”: Another of those tricks
with heat (B. 24/9/’52) is to place the
bare palm on the bottom of a kettle at
the instant it boils—the hand is not
burned because all the heat is being used
to convert the water to steam. At least,
that’s what I’ve been told. For my part
I’ll take it as read. I was once kidded
into smearing my hand with metho and
lighting it. Perhaps I was too liberal with
the stuff; my hand disappeared in a
column of flame about 2ft. high. I
panicked and waved my hand madly:
it burned much better. When I at last
had the sense to shove it under my coat'
the score was 26 blisters, a helluva sore
hand and a permanent phobia against
tricks involving anything hotter than
cafe soup.
*X* *X* - ♦>
“Becks”; While sympathising with the
plight of the Wake islanders I cannot help
feeling that the observer who described
the appearance of the tiny speck of land
in the north Pacific after the typhoon bad
finished with it was just a trifle mixed in
his geographical terms. He said the island
looked like “a lost continent.”
❖ ❖ *
“A.M.N.”: In the pub after the match
the coach, well fortified with celebratory
shouts, was telling all and sundry how
defeat had been averted. “I tell you, we
were down nine to nil at half-time, and
what did I do? I gave those boys a
terrific pep-talk.” At this stage a surge
of thirsty patrons separated him from
his audience. Two beers later he was
back. “I said‘Stick it into’em! Go for
the cows! ’ and you know how the game
ended —a six-all draw.”
FACIAL UMBRAGE
“A fashionable West End barber, writing in
a London journal', says moustaches should be
tended like young trees.”
Who on his phiz, accommodates
{Thinking that this he'll look his best in)
A beaver like a bosuns mates,
Bushy enough for spags to nest in,
Does best when Nature takes its course.
He’ll find it then grows quite
luxuriously.
But if its growth he tries to force
And cultivates it at its source
He’ll notice that it sprouts less
furiously.
But zonkers — they’re a different breed.
Unless they’re tended well, and quickly,
The first hairs, barbers are agreed,
Will soon get wan and thin and sickly.
So, zonker-grower, heed advice :
For heaven’s sake don’t be a miser
And stint that mo. because of price,
But gladly make the sacrifice
And give it needed fertiliser.
Whether the ipo. that you would grow
Be short and fine, or long and scraggy,
A handle-bar, as worn by Joe,
A toothbrush, or one wide and shaggy,
It must be pruned with loving care
If you would have it reach perfection.
Remember this : Cut every hair
To outward shoots, not any where.
’Twill keep it in complete subjection.
Should borers get into your mo.
Or aphis start destructive raiding,
Spray with insecticides ; it’s so
. Essential, though a hit degrading.
Zonkers get die-back quite a lot,
Especially if they’re bifurcated.
You’ll have to watch for collar-rot,
And if the weather’s rather hot
Just keep the thing well irrigated.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
ODERATION
Oh, Chlorophyll, dat face, dem hips—
Dey fill me full ob sighs ;
For you, I leave de oder lips.
An’ de oder eyes.
N.S.W.
[?]. Z.


Still keeps going
when the rest
have stopped”
♦
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX4.26
PERSONAL ITEMS
In 1941 the Niagara took several
millions in gold-bars to the bottom off
New Zealand. In July last year a crash-
ing Drover aircraft strewed £35,000-worth
of gold-bars over the bottom near Lae.
Captain J, W. Herd, who, with Captain
Williams and the Johnstone brothers,
raised a couple of millions of the
Niagara’s gold, has been looking for the
aircraft’s lot. He salvaged the plane, but
found no gold, and believes that, through
the plane’s breaking-up as it hit, the five
canvas bags were scattered before it sank.
Herd has three divers with him ; on past
achievements he’ll give Davy Jones a
good rim for his money.
“Macnell”: Cruiser Australia, in New
Zealand waters on a training cruise, has
Commander John Dowson, presented
hereunder, as executive-officer, respon-
sible for upper-deck efficiency—which
takes in a multiplicity of jobs ranging
from the rust-free working of stanchion-
pins on the fo’c’sle to the condition
of boats’-falls near the quarter-deck;
and a host of seamanship things
in between. Dowson has experience
enough to handle the job. On the China
Station when Hitler let go, he shipped
to England for new destroyer Norman,
had an unregretted look at the Atlantic
and North Russia, and came home
COMMANDER
to his first command, corvette Bendigo.
Later appointed first-lieutenant of cruiser
Hobart (refitting in Sydney from torpedo-
damage in the Solomons), he had the
responsibility of the ship’s damage-
control. After the war, in command of
frigate Condamine, he had a shot at
pulling-off a tanker (reef-clutched in the
Kiriwinas), next day doing the same for
the Reynella, up in Jomard Passage.
Though Condamine couldn’t pull either
ship off, she pulled off a nice wad of
salvage-money. Dowson is now second-
in-command of the ship he first served in
as a snotty.
In 45 years of writing since his first
novel, Pip, was published, Major-General
John Hay Beith produced 33 novels and
histories and 20 plays. A Cambridge man
who won M.C. in War I, the general was
as much at home with the Navy, evidence
of which was the success of his book
The Middle Watch, which, a best-seller
in its original form, did extra-well too as
play and film. Writers like Wodehouse,
A. E. W. Mason and Edgar Wallace
sought his collaboration in turning their
products into plays. His last big work
was a 125,000-word history of World
War 11, which the War Office com-
missioned him to write in 1947. “lan
Hay” died in southern England, aged 76.
A well-known identity made his 50th
appearance at the Melbourne Show in the
person of Tom Milner. He’s been
breeding ducks as far back as anyone
can remember. He once owned 72
which severally laid 300 eggs per annum,
claimed as a world’s record.
Returned to England after a spell in
his hometown, Dudley Glass, the Mel-
bourne composer, with the MSS. of a
light-opera in his pocket. He hopes to
see it released in London in the corona-
tion year, like Edward German’s “Merrie
England,” which came before the foot-
lights at the crowning of Edward VII.
Glass’s theme is Drake of England ; local
entrepreneurs are interested in it, but, with
their usual caution, rather than back
their fancy they’ll wait to see how the
cat will jump in London.
“Fitz”: When I last visited Percy Lindsay a
few weeks ago, at his home in a North Sydney
back-street that might have strayed from a
Sydney Ure Smith etching, I was received with
customary cordiality and invited into the untidy
front-room. In the same room, with Harley
Matthews, Unk White, Jack Abbott and others,
I had spent many a convivial night, reminded
of the passing of time only by the rattle of a
milkman’s cart at dawn. On my last visit
Percy talked of his early days; of his carefree
boyhood at Creswick (Vic.); of Fred Sheldon,
his first art-teacher; of the time he, Lionel,
Norman and Ruby drew for “The Hawklet,”
a scurrilous little Melbourne weekly; of nights
in Melbourne at Fasoli’s in Lonsdale-street,
where meals and a tolerable red wine could be
had almost for a song or a sketch drawn in a
hurry.
Percy recalled with merriment his membership
of two clubs which loomed large in the life
of young Melbourne artists —the Prehistoric
Order of Cannibals, of which the Lindsays,
Max Meldrum, Will Dyson and Hugh McCrae
were some of the lively spirits; and the famous
Ishmael Club, founded by Randolph Bedford.
I reminded Percy that he was as old as I am
now when he first came to Sydney in 1918 to
draw joke-blocks for The Bulletin and to
illustrate the one-shilling N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
novels.
We ran over some of those then drawing for
The Bulletin and who have since crossed to
the beyond—the incomparable and haughty
“Hop”; Dave Souter with his black 'cat and
lovely ladies; Jimmy Bancks, then a red-haired
youth with a wool-firm; Mick Paul, the greatest
Bohemian of them all; the irrepressible Jack
Sommers, a wild lad just back from War I;
B. E. Minns, who put the aboriginal into
countless joke-blocks; and Cecil Hartt, who
was shortly to join “Smith’s Weekly.” “Yes,
said Percy, “they were all good blokes. When
my turn comes I’ll have a lot of mates on the
other side.”
He left a lot of old mates on this side, too;
they turned up for the funeral, whereat Unk
White led them in three hearty cheers for
Percy.
Rear-Admiral Cuthbert Pope becomes
the new chairman of the N.S.W. Services’.
Canteens Trust Fund. An old Britannia
boy. Pope got a liking for Australians
while serving in the first Sydney in War
I, after that transferring to the
R.A.N. Afloat again for the first two
years of War 11, in command of a British
ship in the North Atlantic, he came
ashore to take naval charge in Darwin,
and was there when the Japs first un-
loaded in February, 1942. One of his
daughters is Leslie Piddington, of the
telepathy team.
The weather-signs on the quizzical
Scots face of Captain Finlay Murchison
are the best indication of his qualifications
for his new berth in the Maritime Services
Board. Murchison first tasted salt as a
boy in a 600-ton barquentine-rigged yacht
trading to Norway; he made his first
Australian landfall in a wool-clipper at
the turn of the century. Before taking to
piloting in Sydney, he skippered wind-
jammers on the Sydney-’Frisco run. On
one trip the second mate, bending on a
new foresail in a blow, fell and shattered
the bones in one foot. Skipper Murchison
became, perforce, doctor, and gingerly set
the broken bones with a medical journal
as his main instrument. Nearing ’Frisco,
weeks later, the doc. was so pleased with
the results when he removed the bandages
that all hands were called aft to see the
second wiggle bis toes —as much to his
surprise as theirs. Sydney’s harbor-
master since 1943, Murchison has been
piloting ships for 23 years; his last job
in that line, before anchoring in the
Harbor Trust building, was the Queen
Elizabeth in War 11. His only son, the
pilot of cruiser Canberra’s amphibious
plane, went with the ship when she was
sunk off Savo Island.
A Melbourne playhouse seldom heard
of is the Pilgrim, a pretty little theatre
opposite St. Pat.’s Cathedral and tucked
in behind St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill.
For 18 years Maie Hoban has been peg-
ging away there teaching the drama to
aspiring students and producing good
plays without attracting the critics. At
present there are Maie Hoban ex-pupils
playing in London and New York; one
of her proteges, Murray Matheson, is
appearing in the “Botany Bay” film ; and
in Melbourne John Lee is juvenile lead
at the Princess, Lloyd Cunnington is
chief understudy at the Comedy and
Toni Lamond is on at the Tiv. Miss
Hoban claims that she can live without
a Government subsidy, pay taxes and also
assist in providing funds for other little
theatres.
“1.M.”: Now that the Reaper has
silenced the cheery sound of Percy Lines’s
accordion, Adelaide has lost the last of
its street-musicians. Lines lost his sight
in an accident in a Broken Hill mine 48
years ago, but failed to get compensation
because his claim did not go in within
the specified time. Preferring to remain
independent, he refused to apply for a
pension, and after two years making mats
in the Royal Institution for the Blind
set himself up outside the E., S. and A.
Bank in Adelaide. He had played his
accordion there for 45 years.
Harold Bartram (whose wife is Mel-
bourne’s most familiar figure in the Show
arena and one of its most persistent prize-
winners in the pony section) arranged, as
chairman of the Poultry Control Council,
a series of lectures by poultry experts in
the poultry pavilion on Show days. The
council may be expert at controlling the
female of the species, but it couldn’t
control their spouses. The roosters
crowed so loudly that the project had to
be abandoned.
Artist Prior and scribe were watching
the graceful, measured gliding of the Ice
Parade ballet-team rehearsing at Sydney
Glaciarium when what looked like a jet-
propelled Dervish erupted on to the ice in
a whirl of arms and legs. Five minutes
of top-speed gyrating and the whirligig
slowed, to resolve into the form of
Terry Taylor, America’s skating champion
of 1940 and male star of the Parade.
Taylor was fighting in Burma with Merril’s
Marauders when a Jap “woodpecker”
planted four bullets in his left leg and a
couple in his arm. It took the skater a
year in hospital before he could walk
again—what it took for him to regain his
SKATER
professional eminence only he knows.
Taylor spins so fast in his act that he has
to warm-up backstage before attempting
it. Otherwise the blood, flung violently
into his outstretched hands, could burst
a blood-vessel. Even so, his hands on
completion are so swollen he can’t close
the fingers. The Ice Parade opens at
Sydney Empire tonight.
Julius Kruttschnitt, who pointed out
Mt. Isa pubs to a visitor as the goldmines
among the leadmines (B. 24/9/’52), is one
of the best-known mining men in Aus-
tralia. Chairman of Mt. Isa Mines since
1937, he is executively connected with
mining concerns as far apart as Westralia
and New Guinea, with a directorship of
North Australian Cement thrown-in.
Born in New Orleans (U.S.), graduated
MINER
Yale, in mining with a copper
company working in Arizona, then had
charge of mine-examination and explora-
tion for a big U.S. smelting company in
Mexico. He first saw Mt, Isa in 1930,
when the company brought him out as
general-manager. President of both the
Queensland Chamber of Mines and the
Australasian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy, he prospects also after golf-
balls.
Hanging up cap and gown after a life-
time of schoolmastering in three States
and the Territory, Dr. James Leonard
Rossiter annexed degrees from the uni-
versities of Adelaide and Sydney. Earlier
Director of Education in the Territory,
for the past 25 years he’s been principal
of Westralia’s Wesley College. One son,
with the R.A.M.C. in War 11, is now
Professor of Biochemistry in the Uni-
versity of Western Ontario, Another
studied with the R.A.A.F. before becom-
ing Westralian Rhodes Scholar for 1946.
Rossiter senior is head of the State’s
Toe H.
Into the Silence:
At 55, in Melbourne, Old Digger Crayton
Burns, an identity of Melbourne journalism.
Son of a missionary, bom in Fiji, he started on
the Inky Way at Bendigo, served on the
“Herald,” the “Argus” and “Smith’s Weekly”
as political roundsman, livened up Canberra
for the readers of the “Age” and was State
Publicity Censor in War 11. He covered the
formation of the United Nations at San Fran-
cisco for Australian papers. A son, Rev. A. L.
Burns, was a Victorian Rhodes Scholar.
In Venice, soprano Frances Alda. Bom in
New Zealand and schooled in Melbourne, after
singing in Paris she made her debut at the New
York Metropolitan as Gilda. She reigned as
queen of song of that opera house at its
greatest period for 23 years, and married its
director, Giulio Gatti-Casazza. Her real name
was Frances Davis.
At 70, in Perth, Dr. Gilbert William Barker,
well-known medico there. After graduating in
medicine and surgery at Melbourne University
he was for years honorary surgeon of the
Royal Perth and Princess Margaret Hospitals.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 67, architect Leslie
Douglas Coombs. After qualifying, in London,
for the Royal Institute of British Architects,
he joined Edmund Anscombe, the partnership
being responsible for many of the fine architec-
tural features of Dunedin. Coombs designed
the science building of the Otago Boys’ High
School, and also its war-memorial gates. An
enthusiastic microscopist, he got togther a fine
collection of the famed Oamaru diatomaceous
deposit.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 66, Colonel Bertram
Sibbald Finn, who was with the Australian
forces in the Boer War, went overseas with
the N.Z.E.F. in 1914, and the next year was
attached to the 4th Australian Brigade at
Gallipoli. He won D.S.O. there. In 1939
Finn was appointed denta,l-director for all New
Zealand forces. A C.B.E. came his way in
1945, and the following year he was made an
honorary dental-surgeon to George VI.
At 83, in Melbourne, Charles S. Taylor,
chairman of the Moonee Valley Racing Club.
A partner in the firm of Holdensen and Neilson
Fresh Food Pty., he raced Sandhurst, Don
Aster, Fligh Title and Euripides, among others.


MIRROR-FINISH.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ann”: The. migrant from Edinburgh
on the next block to us was very proud
when a hen setting in his backyard
brought out 12 chicks from 12 eggs.
After a week the chickens started to
die. The next-door neighbor, anxious to
help, put his head over the fence and
asked “What do you give them to eat?”
The newchum stared and said “Don’t
they sook?”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were fencing on
the Shepparton-road near Echuca (Vic.)
when the big car pulled up and a hearty
cove got out. “You chaps could do a
drink,” he said. “Too right,” from Mat.
Bottle and glasses produced and dealt
with. Talk went on. “You’d be A.W.U.
members?” the visitor said. “Too right,”
from Mat. He then shook Us warmly
by the hand. “I’m the Labor candidate
for the by-election here next Saturday.
I can rely on you chaps.” “Aw, I dunno,”
from Mat. “Oh, come, you must vote
Labor on Saturday.” Mat looked
doubtful. Another bottle came forth.
“Stop kidding,” the hearty cove said, with
some anxiety. “Of course you’ll vote for
me on Saturday.” “What’s your name?”
from Mat. “Smith —Joe Smith.” That
wasn’t the name he gave, but it’ll do.
“No, mate,” Mat said, gravely, “we won’t
be votin’ for you.” The candidate looked
shocked and angry. “But why not?” he
demanded. “You’re unionists!” “That’s
right,” Mat drawled, “but we ain’t on the
roll here —only bin here a week.” I never
saw a man so close to bursting as that
candidate when he looked at the empty
bottles.
* * * *
“Gulliver”; I find it refreshing to re-
flect upon the brand of justice handed
out by the resident magistrate of a small
town on Western Australia’s nor’-west
coast in a verdict which for ingenuity
almost deadheated with the famous de-
cision of Solomon’ .1. (and Rex). The
recipients were Paddy and Snowy, direct
descendants of the original Lords Pro-
prietors of the land, and, if they and
their supporters didn’t concur with the
yyhite man’s wisdom, the reason probably
was that it conflicted with their own
more ancient laws. It appeared that
Snowy, a graduate from station-work to
prizefighting and back to station-work,
via, what seemed to his backers, too
many 10-second sleeps, had retired to
win a crust as standover man in the
native camp. How completely he had
failed to benefit by his sojourn in ring
circles was evident by the smallness of
his “touches,” five-bob being the limit.
However, his needs were few and busi-
ness was brisk enough until the day he
"Hullo, Cocky!”
put the bite on Paddy, a small, indus-
trious (when watched) and peaceful
station-boy in town for a spell. Some-
where within Paddy beat the heart of a
Hampden; he defied the extortioner.
Diplomacy having failed, menaces were
offered, causing Paddy to ram a couple
of feet of spear through Snowy’s thigh.
In a courtroom which held more natives
that had ever before been there of their
own free will, the R.M. gave Snowy six
months upon the woodheap and Patrick
three months for arrogating to himself
the right of the Crown to punish. In
the ensuing “sensation in court” the
sergeant and his troopers kicked more
black sterns than they had done for
months. But, as the Beak said later, “It
was a sensible sentence. Snowy, being a
fighter, will certainly take it out of
Paddy’s hide when he gets free again.
But Paddy, able to defend himself only
by unapproved means, will have three
months’ start to get out of the district —
and I’ve told him to make good use of
it.” Now, who says the Law’s a hass?
* * n; *
“Nannel”: The reason the ants didn’t
drown in the floods (B. 10/9/’52) is that,
though plenty of water was on top of
them, they were quite dry—tlie bubbles
of air in the labyrinth of passages and
chambers which constitute their nest
would ensure their survival. They’d have
previously sealed the entrances, being
good weather-forecasters, and their well-
stocked larder could keep them going for
months if necessary. With the coldness
underground they would become rather
torpid, which means they’d use less
oxygen.
* * * *
“Mingari”: “Gulliver” (B. 17/9/’52)
hasn’t sampled the true joys of camel-
punching until he has tried handling the
brutes in mud. Those big blubbery pads
they use for feet fly in all directions
when the going gets slippery. Once, with
a team of musterers, I got trapped in a
maze of flooded channels near the mouth
of the Gascoyne (W.A.), with two camels
pulling a heavily-loaded spring-cart. In
the first reasonably deep creek —about
4ft., and 20yd. wide—the Ships of the
Desert simultaneously went into a com-
plicated spin, crashed on their sides and
began immediately to drown and bawl
blue murder (that may sound difficult, but
it’s easy for a camel). All hands had to
plunge in, hold their silly heads in the
air, get the harness off and then some-
how hold ’em upright till they lurched
and slithered to the far bank. Then we
unloaded the cart and carried about two
tons of gear over on our backs. Next
we pulled the cart through by hand. And
all the while the Prophet’s little play-
mates regarded us with their usual super-
cilious sneer, A couple of miles further
we struck another creek, this time too
deep for us to think of trying it, so back
we had to go, portage again, drag the
cart back and once more nurse our hump-
backed motive-power through to the
bank whence it originally started. About
the fourth crossing from there I stepped
into a hole and nearly drowned—but by
that time death would have been a wel-
come relief.
♦ * * *
“B.”: Would advise “P.1.P.” (B.
3/9/’52) not to concern himself over his
mong’s shortcomings because of the find-
ings of a few Yankee scientists. If dogs
are color-blind, how then do the learned
gents account for the interest they sud-
denly display on encountering a black
lamb? Each sheep-worker will prick his
ears and stare unbelievably when coming
on a black lamb for the first time, and
one old dog I had invariably looked for
the black jumbuck when mustering, then
followed it through the mob, giving his
nose a chance to corroborate the strange
evidence of his sight. Another mong
hated black cats. One anywhere, any-
time, would send him hurtling to attack,
though any other colored puss left him
unmoved. Neither are horses color-blind,
nor sheep, nor cattle. Granted a dog
will believe his nose in preference to his
eyes, but, even so, his eyes are put to
good purpose at times. A whippet-grey-
hound cross of mine, for instance, not
being much good as a hunter, finds his
rabbits by looking for them. Mounted
on a rise, or sometimes a log, his muzzle
turns in every direction till a sudden dash
tells me he has spotted a bunny some-
where. Don’t rush in and tell me it’s
his sense of smell—he does it away from
the wind aS well as with it.
* * ♦ *
“H.C.8.”: We ordinary blokes judge a
dog by his ability to learn; a scientist by
his ability to think. Hence low rating
of the canine in I.Q. tests. And in
conducting these tests the scientific mind
can be completely merciless. Thorndyke
assessed the mentality of the cat by starv-
ing the subject, putting it in a cage and
placing food outside; a trigger arrange-
ment suspended from the top opened the
door if knocked. At first the tortured
animals gained their release only when
they accidentally bumped the trigger, but
eventually they learned to associate the
trigger with the door, and would Jet
themselves out the moment the scientist
imprisoned them. Koller, a German
scientist, put hungry monkeys in
a cage with bunches of bananas
hanging from its roof. Some long,
heavy poles were left in the enclosure.
The monkeys thought out a way
of reaching the food. A pole stood
on end, a qujck scramble up and the
resourceful creatures were able to snatch
a banana before gravity asserted itself.
Next the subjects were locked in a cage
with the food outside. They found the
sticks left for the purpose and raked the
nourishment to within reach.As a. final
experiment Koller placed the food
farther away and put three short sticks
in the cage, each one having an assembly
fitting similar to those on a fishing-rod.
The cleverest monkey figured out how to
make the short rods into one long one,
and, the scientist records, although starv-
ing, the animal was so delighted with his
success he raked in all the bananas before
attempting to eat.
* * * *
“E.”: The first final between Tailin-
borough and Edingrass Aussie-rules
teams was in full swing. The scores were
level, and every player was fighting hard.
Just inside the boundary a short grey-
haired bloke —Tailinborough’s star ruck-
man of 25 years ago—ran urgently up
and down with the play. “Look out
there, Smithy,” he bawled. “That’s it.
Now over this way. Quick. Over...
Over.” He waved his arm madly as
though working a stubborn sheep-dog.
“Y* big idiot, serves y’ right,” he bel-
lowed. “Now, Bruiser, grab it. Straight
through. Kick it, man. Kick. Kick.”
The barracker raised his right leg in a
mighty demonstration that sat him back-
wards on the ground. “Get in, Tommy.
Watch for the hit-out, Bill.” Hastily
picking himself off the grass, he started
down the boundary at a gallop. “Run
for it, Snow,” he yelled. “Quick; keep
it down the wing here.” He reached the
far goals, jumped wildly up and down
as the ball went through the sticks, and
two minutes later was flat-out on the
return trip. The game raged on through
the third and last quarters, the bullock-
bell clanging on a two-point win for
Edingrass. The players came off, while
against the far goals the little grey-haired
cove drooped in exhaustion. “Cheer up,”
I reminded him. “Being minor premiers,
you can challenge ’em again next Satur-
day.” “Th-tha’s right,” he puffed.
“N-nex’ Sat’d’y. 1’11.... I’ll have t’ get
a good spell afore then, though, or—
or, cripes, we’ll never do it.”
“ Yoo-hoo! Dinner ready?"
FROSTY NIGHT
The fruit-trees tonight are ghostly white,
The gum-leaves glisten and gleam,
The farm roof’s bright like a silver light
And the stars lie abed in the stream.
The shadows run dark and stand out stark,
The shed door’s deep and black,
The wet on the plough is like sweat on the
brow,
And a sheen lights up the stack.
The farmhouse seems like a place of dreams,
A bourne of eternal rest:
The white roof shines and the tall dark pines
Are all in jewels dressed.
The frost’s white fire lights fence and wire,
The grass is diamond-starred,
The old roads show as white as snow,
And a lake is the farmhouse yard.
The clear blue sky seems, oh, so high,
The land ’neath a mystic spell,
Where the cows lie snug, each warm in its rug,
With their soft and earthy smell.
The fowls in the shed not a word have said,
The dog’s like a ball in his box;
In the Christ-like still, stands the infinite hill,
And the cold moon follows the fox.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.
FROSTY SUNRISE
Fugitive mists arise and fly
Heavenward, and are lost.
Shadow-wise down the paddocks lie
Long white levels of frost;
Shadows that shrink and shift and pass
As day runs hot-foot over the grass.
For the sun with his sickles reaps at once
The fields of the night, and thus
His harvest, like wax from a candle sconce,
Trickling, tremulous,
All in a moment, all in a trice
Is nothing but splashes of melted ice.
Glory pours through a burning-glass
Till the water is on fire,
With emerald globes on the reedy grass
And pearls on the fencing-wire,
And irised icicles slide and slip
From the gumleaf’s slender finger-tip,
Heaven is low in the lavender hue
Of the river, and I behold
Earth as well in this bubble of blue
Crystal and splintered gold:
All the world in this dewdrop thin,
And only my lonely self therein.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Old-timer”: Old Mac won the local
wheatgrowing contest, and was as pleased
as a dog with nine tails. When told the
date of the State-championship judge’s
visit he let his head go. The best turkey
was killed and prepared, at least a fiver’s-
worth of drinks and smokes was got in,
Mrs. Mac got new living-room curtains
and a new dress on the strength of it,
and sundry neighbors were invited to
come and help make it a day. Came the
judge and his party, who were duly lubri-
cated and led off by Mac to the prize
50-acre wheat plot; Mac beaming all
round. The judge, a careful man, went
into the crop, and Mac and the rest sat
around waiting for him to come out.
Mac had become quiet, soon he was
wearing a scowl, presently he was hard to
get on with. Eventually the judge de-
parted and somebody said “Well, she
was a good day, Mac!” “Yair,” Mac
snarled, “but did he have to walk around
and tramp me crop down like that?” It
must have cost him a good two bushels
of wheat.
♦ ♦ • ♦
“B.”: With the first promise of dawn
the peace of the slumbering farm was
shattered by a prodigious crow from the
fowlyard. In the house Dad stirred,
grunted and rolled over in his bed. “That
blasted new rooster again,” he growled.
“By cripes. I’ll land that cow one before
he’s much older. He’ll know what he’s
getting it for, too.”
Dad suffered the
bird’s too - early,
too-vociferous and
maddeningly re-
peated heraldry two
further mornings,
then he set the
alarm - clock and
slipped out of bed
a little before pic-
caninny daylight.
With clumsy stealth
he made the fowl-
run, slid into the
chook-house, and
was just inching himself along the wall
towards the rooster’s usual dossing-
place, his waddy held at the ready so as
to swipe the feathered pest at his first note,
when a welkin-shattering cock-crow
went off about 6in. from his ear. Mum,
searching anxiously for him five minutes
later, came on him, out cold from the
smack collected from the low overhang-
ing roof as he tried to crack the high-
jump record.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: At the country race-meet-
ing, first race of the day went to a little
black pony which led all the way. As
none of the judges had a penny on him,
they declared it “no race.” Bets were
hastily re-laid, the event re-run, and the
black again led the whole way round.
This time, his victory was allowed to
stand. Next star turn was the woodchop-
ping, for which a dozen husky profes-
sionals had entered. They had also, after
the fashion in those parts, previously and
privately decided who was to win, and
placed their bets accordingly. Unfor-
tunately, their choice struck a tough log.
His red face when he finally pecked his
way to victory may have been due to
exertion. On the other hand, it may have
been due to the embarrassment of seeing
his collaborators —you couldn’t call them
competitors—dropping their axes, slip-
ping off their logs, stumbling as they
climbed back again, and casting forlorn
and reproachful glances at the predestined
victor. Then came the big race of the
day —the Cup—and first past the post was
the little black pony who had made the
jpurney twice before. Did the crowd yell
for blood and the heads of judges? Not
a bit! They laughed till the birds flew
off the gum-trees, and the whole show
was the joke of the district for months.
That’s just the difference between a
country crowd out for a good time and a
“ They're inseparable twins."
pack of city punters out for every penny
they can make.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Up at Exmouth Gulf (W.A.),
where they’re searching for oil, it seems
the divers are interested in a new species
of starfish, with only four rays instead of
the usual five. They apparently impressed
a visiting scribe with the importance of
this discovery, and he sent the informa-
tion on to his Perth paper, which, of
course, published it. Starfish have five
arms, with which they prise-open oyster-
shells and devour the oyster ; but it’s the
easiest thing in the world for a starfish
to lose an arm or two. In fact, a starfish
that is taken from the water will some-
times throw itself to pieces, possibly in
an attempt to distract attention from
whatever it considers its main part. But
if it does lose an arm or two it doesn’t
worry —it grows new limbs as easily as a
lizard grows a tail. I’ll warrant those
starfish are back to normal long before
that reporter gets the bend back in his
leg.
* * * *
“W.L.D.”: “Bass” (B. 27/8/’52) over-
looks the fact that ruminants are much
more inclined to die from eating poison-
plants than horses or kangaroos, which
can eat plenty and come to no harm pro-
vided they are not overheated and get a
drink. In such cases horses will come
to grief, but I’ve never known a kangaroo
die, and they certainly eat it. Brumbies
in W.A. live among poison, and when in
flower or succulent, tender and green the
bushes are often trimmed off. Horses
working in the plough in a heated condi-
tion will be seen to twitch at the
shoulders; that is a sign of too much
“cygnine,” and the chains must be
dropped and the horse let loose, but not
towards water. The many species of
poison-plants in Westralia are mostly
toxic while in flower, and a plant or two
missed in the grubbing may cause much
damage. It is the practice to overstock
heavily with grown, strong sheep a
freshly-grubbed paddock; the seedlings
can be safely eaten with other pickings
up to its fourth leaf; grazed closely the
poison plants can be eaten right out.
He * ♦ *
“C. Towers”: From the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) “Morning Herald” of September
13 I learned that “At the committee-
meeting of the Newcastle Chamber of
Commerce yesterday afternoon the matter
of silting was again brought up, and it
was resolved that the Chamber exert
every effort to have the trouble remedied,
as the frequent grounding of vessels
recently made it apparent that there was
insufficient depth of water in many parts
of the harbor. It was decided to again
approach the Minister for Works with a
view to having double-shift dredging,”
and that is what they have been doing
ever since the par. first appeared on
September 13, 1902 ! Furthermore, I’m
game to bet that the Minister of 50 years
ago gave the Chamber a reply as polite, as
full of vague promise and as empty of
performance as any of his successors
down to the present incumbent have
done. It looks to me as though the
whole thing could have been reduced to
a formula long ago—a standard protest
by the Chamber, a standard reply from
the Minister, and nothing done, except
by the river, which is always on the job—
and, more recently, by the Dutch dredge.
She works 22 hours a day, but is com-
pelled, to the horror of all good Dutch-
men, to dump the rich Hunter Valley
spoil out at sea.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Has any member
of the Council ever seen a wedgetailed
eagle kill a kangaroo? A book I’ve just
read describes how a bird flies down at a
young ’roo, scarcely pauses on its
shoulders while it sinks its talons into
the animal’s spine, and then flies to a tree
to watch the results. The ’roo, according
to this authority, continues for a short
distance, then veers to the left and runs
in decreasing circles until it drops. That
sounds reasonable, and, though I’ve
never seen it happen, I was prepared to
accept it as at least feasible ; but a few
pages further on I came across a chapter
on animals which spit—camels, llamas,
etc. And there I read that “bushmen
from central Australia” advised anyone
who was about to catch a dingo by the
tail to stand well back while doing so,
as the animal might spit fair in his eyes.
So now I don’t know about the eagle and
the Too.
* * * *
“Metax”: A light in the window invited
me to drop in as I was passing at 11 p.m.
I found old Ted, with his gear spread on
the sitting-room floor, joining up some
spouting. “I always save my soldering
jobs until last thing,” he explained. “It’s
the surest way I know of putting the fire
out!” Memories of my own struggles to
keep a soldering-iron hot in the kitchen
fire when patching the family tinware
made me see his point.
* * * *
“Eyenan”: Akin to the fate of the “ten
good citizens of Perth” who “bursted with
running” in 1644 (B. 20/8/’52) was that
of a number of young hens belong-
ing to a poultryfarmer of Lueneberg
(Germany) last November. The farmer
reported that several of his fowls had
exploded with sharp reports while run-
ning about the yard. No doubt the
authorities felt that this might be some
new form of atomic fission, but police
inquiries solved the mystery. The birds
had eaten small pieces of carbide left in
the vicinity by Allied occupation forces
after manoeuvres a short while before.
After their unusual meal the chicks
apparently slaked their thirsts, with
disastrous results.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Though opposed to the
practice, I can’t agree with “Plane
Creek’s” statement (B. 3/9/’52) that
overstocking is a “prime booster of
weed-growth.” When a paddock is over-
stocked even the weeds are kept short.
Naturally, the better grasses go first, but
as the animals grow more hungry the
less palatable feed is constantly nibbled.
In the days before top-dressing, when
paddocks were often reduced to near-
starvation proportions, graziers were less
troubled with weed pests. Nor can I agree
that horses stick strictly to the good
grasses while cattle “will have a go at
the weeds, preventing them from getting
out of hand.” Horses wander from one
thistle to the next carefully nipping off
the seed-heads, and thus preventing their
spread; they readily eat silver tussock
and take occasional bites of black tus-
sock. I have yet to see bovines that will
tackle the black; even in a paddock of
unburnt silver-tussock they will fall away
to skeletons before touching the plentiful
supply. Corkscrew-grass is another plant
that is spreading rapidly in the southern
States, and, though any stock will eat it
willingly enough when the growth is new,
when it runs to seed in the summer the
only animals that will feed on the waving
acres are horses.
* * * *
“Waimea”: Bought a three-months-old
cocker-spaniel a while back, and later,
as he learned to carry, I'took him to
where a few hares from the hills were
camped in a grass paddock. I bagged
a couple, and the pup shaped well
enough, though he had to drag the hares.
When I stripped
off the skins I
stuffed one with
hay to carry on
hi s education.
In the afternoon
from the shed
someone shouted
“Go and see
what’s wrong
with those blasted tripe-hounds and shut
their traps!”, I walked along and stood
at the end of the plantation to see the
cocker with his stuffed hare five yards
clear of the frenzied dogs. He walked
down the line of kennels, dropped the
hare, had a look around, picked it up
and paraded back again. He still survives,
but for the next day or two any one of
those collies would have scoffed him in
4in. blocks if they’d got the least chance.
THE FAR INLAND
Plains wide as ocean, scarified of life
Save saltbush, grizzled as an old man s beard,
And faint-pressed marks_ of lonely dingo pad 8 ’
Background for bleaching bones, not living
things. . ,
The molten sun at noon, the death-cold mgnt,
The strange horizon peopled with mirage;
Echoes ’of old corroborees, dry and faint,
Imprisoned forever in the vaporless air.
Did a great bell toll on Creation’s day
Bidding this land be dumb during Time’s span?
Sift through the soil, there is no buried Troy;
Dig deep for evidence of man —-there’s none.
Then how explain the whisperings that come
Half-heard, half-felt; from sky, or earth, or
brain? ,
This is not sleeping land, or dead land—
But land that was never bom, and never lived;
Tired Creation’s last, unfinished effort,
Suspended between Chaos and world’s end.
N.S.W.
IAIN MCDOUGALL.
BUFFALOES
The shooters ride by Wild Boar Billabong.
The screw-palms rustle as the winds blow
strong,
The sun weaves patterns through a warbler’s
song.
Steady in cover they ride where the bamboos
sway
With the cold dawn winds; and there by ant-
hills grey
The herds are feeding as the young calves play.
How quiet that scene upon the Mary plain,
The pied-geese feeding, and a crested crane:
The shooters burst from cover, all astrain.
Oh like a storm of fiery rain they ride
And buffalo bulls go racing, stride for stride,
To matted jungles where the wild boars hide.
Shots and a cloud of dust as the herds race by,
And swamp-birds screeching to the clear blue
sky
Above the lotus pools of Marrakai.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.
"I'm not mechanically-minded, but it just doesn't look right."


The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Ltd,
provides a completely
modern banking service
throughout its network of
branches in Australia, its
London branches, and its
representatives throughout
the world.
mmm
am
banking
*^S5
5 v»cto*» a LTC
the sANK __ _
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FAGE WINDOW Envelopes
In sizes 5| ins. x 3J ins.,
61 x 3f and 9 ins. x 4Jns.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed,
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
df
Samples and Prices
on application.
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 308 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
aTis* 1
r **'•*
So** 1
gOBf 15
rAGO
I.OM
shl
6cr«v*
, eff
j -
«n»
(Oltl*
IBAOC BASK
DOCTORS FOR
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED BY
RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in
America, Canada, England
and now in Australia. Dol-
cin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms
of Arthritis, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuritis, Fibrositis
and Lumbago. Prolonged
Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply
of blood and oxygen to the
affected tissues. Many thous-
ands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people
who had given up hope of
ever getting relief, are now
active again—able to work
—thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in
tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from
your Chemist.
1/ I2IA
ARTHRITIS
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
100 TABLETS FOR 12/4
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd,, Box 1552,
Q.P.0., Sydney,
Business Rollery Etc.
Shares and Profits
With the £4 million C.S.R.
5 p.c. debenture loan on the
market, plus several State local-
government bodies seeking
finance at £4 12s. 6d. per cent,
and finding the going hard, and
with another Commonwealth
loan likely before the end of
this year, Australian investment
markets have been very quiet.
The wool-sales have opened
quite well, with Sydney prices
around 74d., which is about 5
p.c. higher than at the opening
of . the previous season’s sales.
The financial position of many
concerns previously badly em-
barrassed with large stocks is
getting a little easier. Some
woollen-textile concerns which
were caught with large stores of
raw wool or finished materials
at their last balance-day have
cut their losses, and, with wool
prices now above the 1951-52
average, they should benefit from
any improvement in trading.
Sales of clothing are still inclined
to drag in the retail trade,
though there is an increasing
demand for cheaper types of
men’s suits. The restriction on
the import of British ready-
made men’s clothes should even-
tually help the Australian manu-
facturer.
A shock in the Sydney share-
market last week was the steep
drop in the profits of Tooheys,
Ltd., and the reduction in the
dividend from 8 p.c. to 4 p.c.
Heavily increased costs, includ-
ing taxation and excise, were
responsible for the fall in earn-
ings.
By contrast, F. J. Walker, the
big meat - processing concern,
which has a string of subsidiaries
engaged in allied industries, in-
creased its dividend from 9 p.c.
to 10 p.c. out of profits slightly
larger than in the previous* year.
A concern to raise its distribu-
tion earlier was Bitumen and Oil
Refineries, from 12| p.c. to 15
p.c. But after sales of the ords.
at 48s. 6d. in August, sellers
have since accepted 425. 9d. for
the shares. Which shows how
difficult it is even for attractive
results to inject any enthusiasm
into the sharemarket in present
circumstances.
Hotel Metro pole, which
dropped its div. from 124 p.c.
to 10 p.c., has maintained its
price well in the market. The
yield at 325. 9d. is 6.1 p.c., and
this concern has been outstand-
ing in the past as a well-run
Sydney hotel. Few other hotels
in Australia have been such
steady performers as this one,
though it may now be facing
more difficult conditions. The
improvement in wool prices
should help it; it relies a great
deal on pastoralist patronage.
Frederic Ash, the old-estab-
lished Newcastle (N.S.W.) hard-
ware concern, has followed
Swans, of Sydney, in a reduc-
tion in its ord. div. from 15 p.c.
to p.c. Its profit for 1951-52
was £68,192 (after providing
£56,000 for taxation), against
£67,945 (£54,000 tax) previous
year, and represented 25.2 p.c.
on capital, apart from £15,050
overprovided for private-com-
pany tax, which was transferred
to tax-free reserves. Though the
trading year was better, turn-
over showing expansion, there
was an increase of £96,000 in
stocks (£320,466) and £134,000
in the bank overdraft (£137,790).
The co.’s customers have become
a little slower in paying their
accounts, debtors being up
£31,500 at £179,563. It was
general financial stringency only
which seems to have prompted
the very conservative Frederic
Ash board in reducing the div.-
rate. Its figures are excellent,
but the national outlook for the
time being is uncertain.
Other concerns have been fol-
lowing a similar conservative
policy. Th& present financial
year will be more difficult for
some than last. Those which
should do better this year are
the woollen - textile concerns
beforementioned, even if “better”
in this case means nothing more
than a small profit in place of
last year’s losses. But the
general trend will be to play
safe for the next twelve months,
and as part of that policy a
reduced dividend for 1951-52
will be a fairly common thing.
Many high yields are obtain-
able in the present depressed
sharemarket. Even allowing for
lengthening interest-rates the
available returns from some or-
dinary shares are very attractive
—if div.-rates are maintained.
Whether they will be maintained
or not will depend upon com-
petence in management as well
as upon the trend of turnover
and costs in the particular in-
dustry.
Production and Jobs
Comment by the governor of
the central bank (Dr. C. H,
Coombs) on matters of the
greatest national importance:
After making allowance for sea-
sonal influences, it is apparent that
the volume of Australian rural pro-
duction has been increasing very
slowly in recent years. The wheat-
acreage has shown a marked decline
during the last four years, falling by
25 p.c.; however, due mainly to
good seasons, and perhaps also to
higher yields for other reasons, pro-
duction has not fallen as much as
might have been expected. If a poor
“I Wonder which Way the dough went ?”
season should occur production would
drop sharply, and the amount avail-
able for export could be negligible.
Oats- and barley-production is increas-
ing, and sugar-acreage and -produc-
tion per acre are tending upwards,
although the 1951 sugar season was
not a good one.
During the post-war years total
milk-production has been at a level
slightly in excess of the pre-war
average, but less is being devoted to
butter-production, which has shown
a marked decline.
The 1951-52 dairying season was a
poor one. The number of beef
cattle and beef-production have been
rising slightly, but drought in
Northern Australia has caused heavy
losses, and will retard this develop-
ment. Expansion of production in
the rural industries during 1951-52
was still being limited by shortages
of machinery and materials, particu-
larly heavy tractors, wheat-farming
machinery and fertilisers. A shortage
of experienced manpower was also a
retarding factor in some industries.
Concurrent with these production
trends in the food industries there
has been a rapid growth in popula-
tion, which is increasing at the rate
of about 2£ p.c. a year. Clearly
it has been increasing at a much
faster rate than rural output, and the
consequence has been a decline in
most items, both in the volume and
the proportion of production ex-
ported. On recent trends it would
be quite possible for Australia’s
exportable surplus of meat and dairy
products to disappear within this
decade and for wheat exports to be
much reduced. In an effort to reverse
these trends the Commonwealth
Government in April this year
announced proposals to increase
returns to wheatgrowers for the next
crop and taxation concessions to rural
producers generally. The Australian
Agricultural Council has also adopted
a five-year programme for the expan-
sion of rural production in Australia,
Industrial production increased
during the year. Coal-production
showed a significant increase, and
export markets are now being sought
for Australian coal. Some orders
have already been obtained from
Pakistan and Japan. However, out-
put of gas coal is still below Aus-
tralia’s requirements.
Production of building materials,
iron and steel and generation of
electricity also increased, but the
output of iron and steel and elec-
tricity was still inadequate. Large
quantities of iron and steel were im-
ported, some of these imports coming,
at high cost, from Japan and Europe.
Though the increase in the output of
building materials was moderate, the
supply position improved consider-
ably, due partly to a small fall in
the number of new houses started.
During the year the shortage of
labor, which has persisted for some
years, has been relieved. Some of
the basic industries have at last been
able to fill long-standing vacancies,
and, as a result, production in these
industries has increased. However,
the scarcity of skilled tradesmen con-
tinues, especially in the metal trades,
and in some industries is hampering
the absorption of unskilled workers
as they become available. The
change has been due chiefly to immi-
gration and the release of labor from
manufacturing industries, especially
clothing and textile firms and manu-
facturers of electrical and household
appliances.
As Dr. Schacht, the German
economist, told the Persian Gov-
ernment recently, “The real
coverage for the currency of
every country is the energy and
industry of its workers.” Aus-
tralia is almost desperately in
need of greater production in
order to reduce costs and pro-
vide the wherewithal for national
development. Once costs start
to fall a freer credit policy will
be in order, its scope restricted
only by the availability of
materials at the right price and
men willing to do a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay.
Bretton Woods and Costs
Commenting on British pro-
posals for a conference to bring
the Bretton Woods Agreements
up to date, the New York
“Journal of Commerce” said
recently that what advocates of
a new system seemed most
interested in was financial
machinery for lending still
larger sums to countries unable
to service foreign loans. But,
rather than credits, permanent
prosperity for Europe, as for
other countries, requires produc-
tion of goods at lower cost, and
the selling of them at lower
prices.
The Bulletin has repeatedly
put forward the same argument
as the answer to Australia’s
problems. We want greater pro-
duction from each employable
person in order to reduce costs,
to lighten taxes, to maintain
living standards and, above all,
to provide a surplus of output
to go into the development of
additional capital assets, upon
which not only future industrial
expansion depends, but also the
maintenance of present social
standards and facilities. With-
out greater output and reduced
costs our increasing population
will tend to become a consumer
liability instead of a producing
asset.


I mtotk 3‘U6l?ms ftotpe&i !
Brisbane’s programme of development must keep pace with the city’s rapid
expansion. This Loan will provide funds for such essential works
as Sewerage, Electricity and Water Systems.
A
s
BRISBANE C/TY
' csoo.ooo
oUBLIC LOAN
investment Guaranteed by the Queensland e****’
Free of Exchange
throughout
Australiaj
14)26!:
PER ANNUM FOR TEN YEARS
A splendid opportunity for large and small investors to have a profitable stake in the
expansion of Australia’s fastest-growing Capital city . The interest rate is most attractive
and carries a GUARANTEE by the Queensland Government covering six-monthly interest
payments and full repayment of capital at maturity .
sce Htno /xtt. !
■ Af #H«y snows; J
This is how your money will grow
(to the nearest pound) in ten short
years;—
£2O will be worth £29
£6O will be worth £BB
£lOO will be worth £146
£5OO will be worth £731
£lOOO will be worth £1463
TRUSTEE SECURITY. The Loan is an authorised security
in Tasmania and Queensland.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING. Application will be made to
Stock Exchanges in capital cities to have the Loan listed.
AMOUNT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS. Amounts of £2O and multiples
thereof may be subscribed. The price of issue is par.
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE. The Commonwealth Bank of
Australia is the banker for the issue.
INTEREST is payable half yearly free of exchange in
Australia or its Territories.
CASH APPLICATIONS. In full or 10% on application,
the balance either in full or in 30% instalments, or
any time before November 29th, 1952.
LOAN CLOSES OCTOBER 4th, 1952
Anybody with £2O or more to invest may subscribe . . .
Council Bonds are negotiable on any Stock Exchange at any time!
This Loan has been underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Melbourne
APPLY FOR PROSPECTUS TO THE TOWN CLERK, CITY HALL?
BRISBANE —to the Town Clerk in your Capital City —to any branch
of the Commonwealth Bank, or registered Stock Broker
Landan airmail
From Herbert Holman
A week of playing hide-and-
seek with the weather, in which
cold winds and drenching rain
had the better Of the contest,
has brought the cricket season,
and the summer, to an end.
There have been wetter sum-
mers, but it is doubtful whether
any within recent memory has
left holiday-makers so dissatis-
fied as the one that has passed.
It is not the fault of the weather
or, indeed, of the Chancellor of
the Exchequer that the £25 limit
has deterred many from spend-
ing their holidays abroad. Those
who did suffered considerable
discomfort from their shortage
of francs, whether French or
Swiss: to mix with Europeans in
the temporary guise of a poor
relation is hardly conducive to
lightheartedness.
A keener interest in cricket
this season owed less to the
Indian tourists (whose capacity
and experience frankly are be-
low international standards)
than to two other factors: a
campaign, inspired by head-
quarters, for brighter play ; and
team-building, as a pointer to
our more formidable guests of
next summer. There was less
shaking of solemn heads than
might have been expected in the
elevation of Hutton, but the
paradox remains that the cap-
tain of England is not even cap-
tain of his county.
Hutton, still our best and
most consistent bat, has taken
his duties seriously without
letting them weigh too heavily.
Because his young colleagues,
Shepherd and May (both of
whom, incidentally, are above
him in the averages), have
still to play themselves in, he
has had to bear a heavy
responsibility, which he has dis-
charged with stolid caution. He
has also inspired his men to
brilliant fielding.
The team for next year almost
picks itself, with eight near-
certainties. A new fast-bowler,
the modest and conscientious
Trueman, is still nqt considered
to be fully fledged, despite his
sensational Test performances.
Equally sensational but less
happy is the fading-out of Denis
Compton,
Trade-union Assessment
Unease about the influence —
or lack of influence —of the
trade-union leaders upon their
8,000,000 members has been sub-
stantially quietened by their
handling of the Margate confer-
ence. The “moderates,” notably
Arthur Deakin, Lincoln Evans
and Sir Vincent Tewson,
have shown that they not only
know the true facts but can also
express them with courage,
directness and understanding.
Even if allowance is made for
the word being easier of expres-
sion than the deed, outside ob-
servers are impressed by the
finality with which the General
Council of the T.U.C. has
carried the mixed bag of dele-
gates with it.
A good deal of astute mani-
pulation, conventional sops of
class-conscious raillery at the
Government for the heart-warm-
ing of the Old Guard and a
clear determination to separate
and rout the Communists en-
abled the “platform” to carry
the “floor.” Its one serious de-
feat was an embarrassed drench-
ing from a cloudburst of
Socialist doctrine which came
towards the end of the confer-
ence, when pent-up feelings de-
manded urgent release. This
took the form of a resolution
calling upon the council to pre-
pare, by 1953, plans for the
“social ownership” (i.e., nationa-
lisation) of industries as yet
spared. (This action is likely to
upset Mr. Attlee more than Mr.
Churchill. The very euphemism
of the phrase shows that
nationalisation is no longer a
popular topic.)
The Communists, who seek to
hamper the rearmament plan as
a stage towards wrecking it,
were decisively snubbed. Their
other tactic —the double ex-
ploitation of wage-claims purely
as a motive for strikes and as a
means of underpinning the
British economy—also received
a check, although not a demon-
strably firm one.
Whether the framework of
our trade-unions is all that it
should be is another matter and
one that is receiving pointed
criticism. But this conference
has shown that the governing
body of the T.U.C. has regained
something of the rough vigor
that Ernest Bevin gave to it, and
that it is fundamentally loyal to
the Constitution. There are no
simple means of assessing the
damage wrought by Communists
at the workshop level, but they
have no direct say or direct in-
fluence upon the council, which
has no difficulty in excluding
them from membership. It
might easily be otherwise.
At the “Mermaid,” N.W.B
Art for art’s sake, unfor-
tunately, is a conviction that
bears little relation to the
rough-and-tumble of earning a
living ; but it can be a happy
and rewarding approach to a
hobby.
A much-discussed instance is
a small private theatre in a St.
John’s Wood garden. The well-
known Shakspearian, character-
actor and variety artiste, Bern-
ard Miles, is an old-style Eliza-
bethan, bold of intellectual ven-
ture and impervious to obstacle.
His hobby of carpentry led him
to the construction of a neo-
Elizabethan theatre in a disused
meeting-hall behind his house
for the private participation of
his friends and patrons, with
special reference to the Wag-
nerian singer Kirsten Flagstad.
Mr. and Mrs. Miles could
easily allow their venture to be-
come a resort for wealthy
esoterics, but so confirmed are
they in the belief of essential
democracy that they are almost
fanatically determined to bring
it before the wider world. A
replica is in course of construc-
tion, with enhanced ingenuity,
for touring purposes. It will be
capable of transport, even by
air: which partly accounts for
these notes, since there is a
strong present intention, limited
only by incalculable monetary
factors, of transporting “Mer-
maid II” to Australia.
Two visits to recent perform-
ances are certainly landmarks of
cultural experience, the non-
theatrical one especially. For
this the fore-stage was made to
contain a harpsichord, a primi-
tive pipe-organ, a chamber
orchestra and a choir. The three
Bach cantatas could hardly
be bettered for cherished,
musicianly performance.
Memory will always hold these
impressions: Geraint Jones’s
delicate conducting from the
keyboard; Flagstad, self-effac-
ing, singing away from her
natural style to an oboe d’amore
obbligato ; a chorus of young
men and women lost to the
music and inspired by its full-
ness ; certain of our finest
orchestral soloists pouring affec-
tion into their playing; and a
sum total of simplicity and
exultation.
The other performance,
“Macbeth,” is also memorable,
if not perhaps quite so inspir-
ing. The production had a pur-
poseful aesthetic aim: back to
Shakspeare, style, language, ges-
ture and all. The “contem-
porary” speech seemed to verge
upon the Yorkshire dialect, with
broad a’s and u’s, but also con-
trived to introduce the actors’
own local brogues. At times it
invited burlesque. Yet one
might well have been, in imagi-
nation, sitting on Bankside in
the early 1600’s. The effect of
gesture was less pronounced be-
cause it was largely non-existent.
It is reasonable to expect that
the Elizabethans were more
stylistic and demonstrative. Jose-
phine Wilson’s Lady Macbeth
had viciousness before the deed
and whimpering contrition after-
wards, while Bernard Miles’s
Macbeth was broody and self-
searching—a henpecked go-
getter.
The ingenuity of the stage and
the staging was somewhat over-
cast by first-night flurry, but no
theatre-lover can fail to be
absorbed by its possibilities.


8
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
, ■ ' , r r. • , ; ■; -
you looked over your will lately?
If you have not revised your Will to meet to-day’s
conditions, the consequences may be serious for someone
who depends on you. Your responsibility to that some-
one is too important to justify delaying until some tomorrow
that may never come.
Why not have a confidential talk with one of our
Senior Officers on the subject of the appointment of the
Company as your Executor and Trustee —alone or jointly
with a relative or friend?
He will help you provide for the efficient and
economical settlement of your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step of instructing your
Solicitor to redraw your Will should then be a simple
matter.
If you would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company write (or ring 80377) and make an
appointment.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.. Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. B. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS. Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEE
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
t Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. 6 p.c. , —Ordinary— N serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
44 257,487 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 35,487 489,877
’45 258,775 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 36,775 526,652
'46 227,312 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 5,312 531,964
Debenture exes., £28,510 .. .. 503,454
’47 269.889 60,000 7.3 = 162.000 47,889 551,343
Contingencies res. disclosed, £140,000 691,843
i Less new patents, £11,346 .. .. 679,997
*4B 283,763 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 61,763 741,760
Share premiums, £104,000 .. .. 846,760
*49 269,147 60,000 7.3 = 177,000 22,147 867,907
~ Premium on shares, £ 208,000 .. 1,076,907
'5O 360.861 60,000 7.3 = 232,000 68,861 1,144,768
Share premiums, £440,705 .. ..1,586,473
’6l 668,978 60,000 11.2 = 519,500 89,478 1,674,951
To staff fund, £25,000 .. ..1,649,951
Share premiums, £1,054,674 .. 2,704,625
’62 1,070,299 60,000 8.9 = 769,500 240,799 2,945,424
To_ staff funds, £26,000 .. .. 2,920,424
This big undertaking turns out most
of the wide range of paper-board
and kraft products extensively used
for wrapping and packing by every
section of trade and industry in the
Commonwealth. It took over the work-
ing assets of Australasian Paper and Pulp
(Melbourne) and Cumberland Board
Mills (Sydney) in 1926 —the two holding
cos. themselves amalgamated in 1948,
leaving A.P.P., whose scrip is listed on
’Change, sole owner of A.P.M.’s ord,
capital. Then, after years of research,
A.P.M.’s management succeeded shortly
before the war in making from local
timbers much of the pulp previously
imported. The rapid and sheltered post-
war development of the Australian
economy, spurred by inflation and
immigration, sent demand for the co.’s
products up with a rush. To hold the
market, the co. embarked on a big and
costly programme of development, which
for the most part has proceeded accord-
ing to schedule and is now moving toward
completion.
Measured in terms of finance, expan-
sion over the last four years shows up in
net additions of £14,133,264 to the book-
value of freehold and plant, £3,862,340 to
stocks, £2,415,596 to book-debts and
£944,867 to shareholdings, mostly in two
subsidiary undertakings. To help meet
the outlay shareholders put up £11,363,949
of fresh share (£9,556,570) and share-
premium (£1,807,379) capital, £1,000,000
was added to the debenture debt,
£515,707 to the sum raised on mortgage,
£4,411,413 to the bank overdraft and
£1,986,872 to the amount coming to
sundry creditors.
At June 30 last issued share-capital
stood at £14,638,212 (£1,000,000 of it
carried a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.), of
which £1,881,642, plus £470,411 of share
premiums, was still to come in. All the
£2,352,053 thus to come, and a lot more
besides, is needed to complete the pro-
gramme of expansion, reduce the over-
draft and provide more working capital.
So 1,793,741 new £1 6 p.c. prefs. have
just been offered at par—6so,ooo to share-
holders (pref. and ord.) in A.P.P. and
debenture-holders in A.P.M. at Aug. 21 ;
500.000 to those on A.P.M.’s own pref.
register at Aug. 27 ; 100,000 to A.P.M.’s
employees; the remaining 543,741 have
been taken firm by lan Potter and Co.,
who has underwritten the entire issue (it
has been oversubscribed) at 6d. a
share. A.P.M. also made a gift-issue of
50.000 f.-p. £l6 p.c. prefs. to those on
its own pref. register at Aug. 26 by capi-
talising a like amount of the share-
premium reserve.
All this will lift A.P.M.’s share-capital
to £16,481,953 in 2,843,741 6 p.c. prefs.
and 13,638,212 ords. The pref. div. and
9 p.c. to the ords. will then call for
£1,398,065, or £327,764 more profit than
was claimed last term. Excluding the
gift-scrip and avowing for brokerage!,
etc. (£50,000), on the new cash-issue, there
will be £4,095,794 net of fresh share and
premium capital at work, and there was
a lot of money represented by assets
which had not had an opportunity to earn
anything when the books last closed,
which makes it difficult to assess the true
level of recent net earnings.
On the production side there are four
mills in Vic. and one in N. S. Wales, with
a sixth under construction at Petrie (Q.),
which is to turn out 20,000 tons of card-
board, etc., annually. The machines,
powered largely by their own generating-
plants, are fed partly from the pulpmill
at Maryvale (Vic.) and partly from
imported pulp. A subsidiary, A.P.M.
Forests Pty., which owns large stands
of pine and eucalypt in Vic, and N. S.
Wales, looks after the supply of pulp-
wood, which it supplements by collection
of large quantities (42,500-odd tons last
term) of waste-paper. Another offshoot,
Maddingley Brown Coal Pty., provides
boiler-fuel for the co. and others from
opencut deposits at Bacchus Marsh
(Vic.). And presently a new electrolytic-
chlorine and caustic-soda plant, fed from
the co.’s own salt deposit in South Aust.,
will come into operation alongside the
pulpmill at Maryvale.
As new plant came into operation pro-
duction stepped along in this way:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Wood pulp .. 41,843 40,089 43,283 47,535
Paper & board 180,206 133,126 148.194 160,037
Although last term’s output and sales
were a record, both tapered toward the
close of accounts, the price of imported
pulp fell and costs rose. After adjusting
inventory values and allowing for depre-
ciation and taxation, etc., the profit figure
increased by £401,321, reaching
£1,070,299. But the earning-power of
capital decreased, because there was more
of it to feed. Allowing for the pref. div.,
there was enough to show 11.7 p.c. on
average, ord. capital as against 13.1, 9,4,
8.2 and 10.1 p.c. back to 1948. The div.
was lowered from 11.2 p.c. to 8.9 p.c.;
for the nine years to 1950 it was steady
at 7.3 p.c.
The financial set-up compares as
follows:
Paid capital— 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref £1,000,000 £1,000.000 £1,000,000
Ord 3,448,000 5,792,584 11,756,570
Debentures .. 3.000,000 3,250,000 3,250,000
Mortgages .. 183,694 374,858 576,305
Loans, etc. .. 363,827 784,161 4.632,691
Other creditors .. 1,078,589 2,559,239 2.441,054
Tax reserve .. 403,849 1,129,956 1,408,669
Staff funds .. 26,000 50,000
Final divs. ~ 152,000 873,000 492,500
Freehold and plant 6,164,243 9,885,802 17,014,671
Shares other cos. 275,074 524,871 1,144,079
Stock .. .. 2,490,509 8,205,111 6,420,066
Book debts .. 1,810.724 2,789,719 3,922,269
Cash, etc. .. 36,676 588,744 27,127
Last term £7,129,369 net was added to
freeholds and plant, £3,214,955 to stocks,
£1,132,550 to book-debts and £619,208 to
shares in other cos., mainly the two sub-
sidiaries already mentioned. Shareholders
put up £7,018,660, the overdraft was
increased by £3,848,530 and the mortgage
debt by £201,447.
How the current term will pan out is
difficult to say at the moment. A period
of overbuying is usually followed by one
of saturation and underbuying until
demand builds up again. Meanwhile
increased supplies and the upward pres-
sure of costs are likely to spell narrow
profit-margins. So maintenance of the
8.9 p.c. distribution is by no means
certain. The co.’s long-term prospects are
encouraging.
Presently the holding co., A.P.P., which
has an issued capital of £13,912,318 in
437,506 8 p.c. cumulative participating
prefs. and 13,474,812 ords., intends to
distribute among those on the register its
holding of A.P.M. ords. Details of the
proposal have yet to be announced. The
market prices A.P.P. prefs. at 31s. to give
an immediate yield of 5.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
distribution, and the ords. at 235. lid. to
return 5.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
A.P.M.’s prefs. at 225. 6d. yield 5.3 p.c.
John McGrath Industries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. t — serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
John McGrath and Subsidiaries.
’47.. 25,245 9 p'.c. = 23,027 2,218.. 217,250
Share premiums, £78,509 295,759
’48.. 47,413 12 p.c. = 38,684 8,729.. 304,488
Prom depreciation reserves, etc., £44,161 348,649
From share premiums, £8991 .. .. 357,640
’49... 98,917 15 p.c. = 61,665 37,252.. 394,892
Share premiums, £39,375 434,267
Surplus revaluation assets, £373,365 .. 807,632
Unexplained addition res., £4353 .. 811,985
Reserves capitalised. £250,000 .. .. 561,985
’50.. 263,666 84 p.c. = 52,500 211,166.. 773,151
To tax reserves, £12,778 760,378
John McGrath Industries and Subsidiaries.
Add net reserve adjustments on
reconstruction, £1,358,765 .. ..2,119,138
July, *
Reserves capitalised, £750,000 .. ..1,869,138
’5l .. 351.722 10.1 p.c. = 165,000 186.722..1,655,860
’52 .. 349,014 8 „ „ 128.333 220,681..1.776,541
*l3 months. 1951 and 1952 reserves subject to
£1,269,177 excess cost over par value shares in
subsidiaries.
Behind the extraordinary growth of
the figures oyer the last five years lies
the post-war inflationary boom, and its
effect upon the motor and engineering
trades, especially in heavy-duty equip-
ment, ferrous and non-ferrous forgings,
structural-steel and wide range of other
lines handled and/or made by this big
organisation, which now consists of parent
holding co., an intermediate holding co.
and 10 operating subsidiaries.
And the parent has done a little inflat-
ing on its own account, too. Paid capital
shot up from £225,000 at June 30, 1946,
to £2,000,000 at the close of last accounts.
Of the increase £1,000,000 was bonus
scrip and the balance (£775,000) cash,
the last £500,000 of which was gathered
at par in March, 1952, to help finance a
new subsidiary. National Forge Pty.
(Melbourne), which had not come into
production when the books closed at
June 30 last. The bonus-issues came
partly from share-premium and assets-
revaluation reserves and partly from the
£1,269,177 by which the cost (to the
present holding co.) of shares in sub-
sidiaries exceeds their par value.
The present holding co. bought all the
750,000 f.-p. £1 shares in John McGrath,
Ltd., and with them control of a string
of subsidiaries, in Jan., 1951. Net assets
at June 30, 1950, amounted to
£1,510,373. The price paid was
£1,500,000, satisfied by the issue of eight
new f.-p. ss, shares for each old f.-p.
£1 share. That excludes £750,000 of share
premiums, the new ss. shares being issued
at a premium of 2s. 6d. each for the
purposes of the deal. No cash payment
was involved, so the £750,000 was a book
adjustment.
The following list of subsidiaries will
help to get the group and its ramifica-
tions into perspective : .
Australian Forge and Engineering Pty.,
Lidcombe, N.S.W. (paid capital £350,000);
John McGrath Motors Pty., Sydney (paid
capital £375,000), distributors in N.S.W. of
Humber, Hillman and other cars and
trucks; John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty.
(paid capital £200,000), distributors of
similar makes of vehicles in the northern
State; Motor Distributors Pty, (paid capital
£100,000), inoperative ; Industrial Sales and
Seryices (N.S.W.) Pty., Lidcombe (paid
capital £250,000,) distributors of tractors,
earth-moving and other heavy equipment,
P ? rkins (Aust,) Pty., Alexandria,
N.S.W. (paid capital £200,000), steel mer-
chants and distributors of petrol and diesel
engines, power shovels, etc.; Perkins Pty ,
Melbourne (paid capital £100,000), same as
Perkins (Aust.) Pty.; Astra Engineering
Cp, Pty-, Marnckville, N.S.W. (paid capital
£25,000); John McGrath, Ltd., Sydney (paid
capital £1,000,000), which still continues to
function as an intermediate holding co.;
National Forge Pty., Melbourne (paid
capital £500,000), all kinds of ferrous and
non-ferrous forgings; Beverley Bright Steel
Pty., Sydney (paid capital £10,000), at
present inoperative,
Additions last term were the Bright Steel
Co., which will need more capital as plant
comes forward, and the Melbourne forge
co., which recently reported a satisfactory
trial run, and expects to spend a further
£120,000 on capital account by June
1952.
Aggregate turnover and allowances fo
depreciation and taxation are not dis
closed in the published accounts. Bigges
contributors to earnings are probably th
motor-distributing cos., Industrial Sales
and Services, Australian Forge and th
Perkins cos. Despite the buoyancy o
costs and change in trading condition
toward the close of accounts, the boarc
was able to write net earnings of th
group only £2708 short of the 195
figure (which was for 13 months) a
£349,014. That was equal to 21.7 p.c, on
average capital as 23.4 p.c. for th
previous term. In accordance with de
dared policy the div. was lowered from
10.1 p.c. to 8 p.c., leaving £220,68
(63.2 p.c.) of the year’s net earnings to
plough back into the business.
The £500,000 of fresh share capital wa
used to take up scrip in National Forge
(£496,750) and the Bright Steel co
(£9500), whose assets and liabilities are
not included with those of other sub
sidiaries in the consolidated accounts;
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Capital .. .. £150,000 £1,500,000 £2,000.000
Outside interests 104,325 124,088 141,298
Overdraft .. 21,082 1,636,528
Creditors, etc.* . . 629,832 1,150,600 1,876,265
Xnter-co. balance.. 265,824 550,972 251,799
Pinal div. . . 15,000 90,000 83,333
Freeholds .. .. 750,837 1,012,485 1,349,975
Plant .. .. 253,059 361,799 510,040
Stocks, etc. .. 1,132,728 1,772,400 3,220,574
Debtors .. .. 384,824 479,598 884 702
Shares .. .. 6,000 2,000 509,250
Cash .. .. 19,889 75,376 22,046
Intangibles .. , 1,267,862. 1,269,177
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet the heavy growth of
£1,448,174 in stocks, add £405,104 to
book-debts, £337,490 to freeholds and
£148,241 to plant, the co. went to its
bankers for £1,636,528 and increased the
amount coming to creditors, etc., by
£725,665. When the books closed the
bank and creditors, etc., had 18s. 7d. for
every pound belonging to shareholders in
the business.
The slackening of activity in the motor-
trade, in public works and in outlay on
on capital goods generally, together
with buoyant costs, suggest a contraction
in net earnings for the current term. Still,
8 p.c, on capital as it now stands will
call for only £160,000 or less than half
last term’s profit. So the market prices
the f.-p. ss. shares at 6s. 6d. to return
6.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is 6s. 3d., excluding excess
of cost over par value of shares in
subsidiaries.
Berlei, Ltd.
t Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £49,937 . .fl
To staff fund, £3729 ..
1947.. 34,862 4000 10 p.c. = 16,292 J.
60,778 203,249
Share premiums, £59,906 .. '
Assets revaluation, £40,814 ..
From tax provision, £ 1829 .. ■
To staff fund, £3709
1948.. 49,124 4000 10 p.c. = 21,469 !
122,495 325,744
Add assets revaluat’n, £16,875 1
To staff fund, £4565 ... !■
1949.. 48,729 4000 10 p.c. = 26,479 J
25,560 351,304
Repayments from U.K. co., £10,663 .. 361,957
To staff fund, £6571 .. .. . ; 355,386
To stock reserve, £2197 .. ..353,189
1950.. .59,784 4000 10 p.c. = 26,625 29,159 382,348
Surplus tax, £2328 384.676
To staff fund, £6667 .. ..378,009
Share premiums, £12,500 ..390,509
1951.. 58,859 4000 10 p.c. = 28,750 26,109 416,618
Surplus tax, £lBOO .. .. ..418,418
To staff fund, £8450 409,968
1952.. 60,657 4000 10 p.c. = 37,544 19,113 429,081
This Sydney co., its two Australian
subsidiaries (Berlei Pty., Melbourne,
and Warner’s “Le Gant” Pty., Sydney)
and New Zealand associate (Berlei, N.Z.,
Ltd.) turn out most of the foundation-
garments worn by women throughout the
Commonwealth and Dominion. Another
subsidiary, Berlei (U.K.), Ltd., London,
is also giving a good account of itself.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the war and post-war
era of shortages virtually came to an
end, spending generally became more
restricted, the number of women in
employment decreased and turnover


d3&
r
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and!
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
10 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen. Public Trustee
KI TP mom SAFE*
ytMt£v
SANDERS
tf^FILES;
Correspondence. Invoices,
•totements. ejc.. tiled in the
“Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book ol reference at
the end of each month —as
any other period.
6 .
Prleev sad far-
ther information
■pan application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE ~ Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
m
CDS z c i!//Z^)A
The Metropolitan Deferred Assurance Plan enables you
to pay minimum premiums for your child, and on his
majority, he can carry on the policy ... an inducement
to thrift and a protection for his future years. Ask for
Table “Q.”
Today’s Protection —Tomorrow’s Security
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co. Ltd.
HUNTER & BEIGH STREETS. SYDNEY.
Incorporated In Queensland. 1893.
w.
V- r“
2S?B
w ■
&
Pt 3
Frenzied peasants attack sky monster
Paris, 27th August, 1783
ONSIEUR MONT-
GOLFIER’S first
hydrogen balloon,
released on the Champs de
Mars in Paris, came down at
Gonesse. Excited rustics
mistook it for some mon-
strous devilish beast and,
encouraged by two monks,
attacked it with pitchforks
and flails until it was quite
deflated. The tattered re-
mains were tied to a horse’s
tail and dragged away.
We can imagine M. Mont-
golfier’s statement to the
Press. “This shows how far
aviation has to go before
flying machines become
commonplace. When they
do, of course, proper
arrangements will be needed
for their reception. And
somebody will have to in-
vent the BP Aviation service
to refuel them quickly and
efficiently.
AVIATION
dgf
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
eased during the last part of the
term. Over the full period, how-
ever, . the parent s turnover
(£1,606,413) increased by about
6i p.c. as against a growth of
36 p.c. for the preceding year.
The improvement of £1798 in net
earnings was due to a better re-
turn from subsidiaries the
U.K. co. reported a marked in-
crease in sales —and to cuts in
allowances for depreciation and
taxation:
1931. 1952.
Trading profit . • £122,811 £96,608
Investments .. 6,599 12,338
Total ~ ..£129,410 £108,946
Less —
Depreciation .. 19,933 12,979
Taxation . . 48,000 33,000
Staff div. .. 2,618 2,310
Net profit . . .. 58,859 60,657
The upward pressure of operat-
ing costs, etc., shows up in the
drop of £13,464 in profit be-
fore allowing for depreciation
and taxation. The £60,657 of
net profit covered the pref. div.
(£4000) and 15.1 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 19.1, 20.9,
15, 21 and 18.9 p.c. back to
1947. The div. was kept at 10
p.c., an annual event for the last
17 years.
After protracted negotiations
with Capital Issues Control
180,864 new £1 ords. were issued
at par halfway through the
term, and all but £5104 of the
money was in hand when the
books closed:
1950. 1951. 1952.
£> £> £
Paid capital.. 316,250 340,000 515,760
Mortgage . . 70,000 100,000 100,000
Overdraft . . 5.102 190,285 283,830
Creditors, etc. 164,591 387,676 195,754
Tax provision 37,730 48,000 49,405
Provident fund 15,000
Pinal divs. .. 15,313 16,500 25,044
Freeholds .. 127,289 134,812 134,007
Plant .. 63,436 69,274 89.912
Investments!. . 103,583 112,707 125,200
Stocks . . 561.487 987,750 1,064,845
Book debts .. 145,719 190,320 181,465
Cash, etc. .. _ 4,821 4,216 3,445
t Shares in subsidiary cos.
The fresh share capital, together
with an extra £93,545 from the
bank, was used mainly to reduce
the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. (down £191,922),
carry more stock (up £77,095),
install additional plant (up
£20,638) and strengthen the
holding in subsidiaries (up
£12,493). Stocks are said to be
conservatively valued, and
appear less a reserve of £44,052
against any quick slip in prices.
The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£595,722),
or working capital, was £155,897.
With the change in outlook
the emphasis has shifted from
production volume to marketing,
which means that quality, style,
fit and price are now becoming
the dominating factors in sales.
In all these matters the history
of the co. suggests that it can
be relied upon to give a good
account of itself, and so retain
its grip upon its markets, pro-
vided wage and other costs be-
yond the management’s control
don’t get out of hand, of course.
At 355. 3d. (445. early in
1952) the £1 ords. return 5.6 p.c,
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. At 245.
the 8 p.c. prefs. (they are sub-
ject to the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act) yield an attrac-
tive 6.6 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £l9 prefs. and 365, 2d. ords.
Aberfoyle Tin, N.L.
This well-equipped and well-
developed mine, on the slopes of
Ben Lomond (Tas.), is Aus-
tralia’s richest tin- and wolfram-
producer. Formed at the end of
1926, the co., which now has a
paid capital of £62,500, has
handed shareholders dividends
totalling no less than £1,121,941,
of which £728,125 has been sent
out during the last two years,
thanks to the sharp rise in prices
for both tin and wolfram.
The co. sells its tin concen-
trates locally at a fixed price,
which is below world parity.
The wolfram concentrates, sold
in world markets until Novem-
ber 16 last, have been since
taken by the U.K. Government
and B.H.P. under a four-year
contract at world prices, with a
“satisfactory” guaranteed floor
by U.K. The local price of tin
stood at £lOOO a ton till April
30, 1952, when it was lifted to
£llOO, and has remained steady
since. The London price of
wolfram per unit, which aver-
aged £S26 Bs. for 1951, eased
from £S2S 10s. for January,
1952, to £S2I 16s. 3d. for
August.
Last term the co. milled an
extra 3556 toils ore for the fol-
lowing results:
1950. 1961. 1952.
Ore milled, tons 29,579 33,228 36,784
Concentrates—■
Tin, tons .. 455.60 451.48 458.58
Wolfram, tons 119.90 143.30 172.56
Flue dust, tons 38.88 148.42 220.39
Net profit, £.. 80,630 375,563 537,621
Dividend, p.c. .. 95 440 725
„ amount, £ 59,375 275,000 453,125
Thanks to its higher wolfram
content, the mill-feed was worth
£2l 9s. 3d. (up £l2 Bs. 9d.) per
ton. So, despite a sharp rise of
£4 19s. 4d. a ton in all-in costs
(£ll ss. 6d.), the profit per ton
from mining was £7 9s. sd. better
at £lO 3s. 9d. Hence the leap
of £162,058 in net earnings
(£537,621), which were equal to
860 p.c. on capital, or 8.65. per
Is. share. The div. was lifted
from 4.45. to 7.255. per share.
Ore reserves at June 30 were
put at 273,806 tons (up 17,953
tons), of which 236,244 tons
were positive and the balance
probable. The main shaft, now
down 1347 ft., is to be deepened
a further 480 ft. and 3430 ft. of
driving and cross-cutting is to
be done to open up ore (not
included in abovementioned
reserves) indicated by the
diamond-drill.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £582,360 (of
which £79,995 was stores) and
current liabilities £448,240. The
market prices the Is. shares at
435. 9d. as against 9s. 2d. two
years ago,
Kampong Kamimting Tin
Dredging
Operating in the Perak district
(Malaya), the co. has dismantled
its No. 2 dredge pending pur-
chase of a new property, for
which negotiations are in pro-
gress. No. 1 machine has pro-
duced the following results since
it came into commercial produc-
tion again on November 1, 1950,
when the price of tin was around
its peak:
Tin
Treated, Ore,
March, c,y. Tons. Profit. Div.*
1951 t .. 1008 291.13 £91,579 Nil
(3/-)
19521 . . 2049 452.74 60,272 £31,500
* Figure in brackets is nominal rate per
share; the amount is shown less tax.
f Five months. tl2 months.
The ore assays 75 p.c. metallic
tin. For the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts, average
price received for the metal was
£8917.75 per ton as against an
average of £81177.56 for the pre-
ceding five months. There were
also a drop in grade of ground
treated (0.421 b. per c.y., down
0.231 b.) and a rise in treatment
costs (12.74 d. per c.y., up
1.45 d.). The £60,272 of profit
(it excludes an interest refund of
£8727) was equal to 20 p.c. on
capital, and a div. of 3s. per £1
share, less 30 p.c. Malayan in-
come tax, making the net rate
10.5 p.c., was paid.
The dredge has since run into
a thin patch, but bore logs indi-
cate better values ahead. When
the books closed current assets
totalled £314,024 and current
liabilities £49,875. In addition,
there was a rehabilitation loan
of £39,347. Since the close of
accounts the co. has received
£41,535 of its £276,901 compen-
sation claim. The market prices
the £1 shares at 41s. or there-
abouts as against 375. 6d. a year
ago.
Westralian notes: Wiluna, one
of the best producers in the west
during its heyday, has paid
liquidation dividends totalling
13s. 6d. per £1 share, and is now
auctioning the remainder of its
plant at Wiluna. Paringa has
exercised its option over the
Wheel of Fortune Extended
leadmine at Northampton;
rising costs and a drop in grade
of ore brought the co.’s Kal-
goorlie mill to a standstill early
in 1951. New Coolgardie G.M.,
a high-cost producer in Western
Mining Corp.’s stable, netted
£58,486 from 53,156 tons of
9.Bdwt. ore for the year to end
March, 1952. Spargo’s Reward,
still hopeful of resuscitation, is
check-sampling a tin concession
at Greenbushes ; after a six-year
drought it paid 3d, per 2s. 6d.
share in 1941, and nothing since,
Kalgoorlie Southern Gold, the
strongly-backed prospecting con-
cern which is testing the possible
southern extension of the Kal-
goorlie system of ore veins, has
put down two drill-holes, and
“the encouraging results amply
warrant continuation of pros-
pecting.”


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
at the annual meeting of the Victorian
division of Red Cross at Nicholas Hall,
his Excellency speaking particularly for
members of branches and companies.
The Premier and Mrs. McDonald were in
the official party.
It was disclosed that the deficit this
year was £75,000, one result being the
closing of the Lady Dugan Home for
ex-servicemen’s children. Colonel Allan
Spowers, chairman of the division, said
that Major-General Kingsley Norris had
promised to lead the Citizens’ Appeal
Committee next year, when Red Cross
would appeal for £150,000. Professor
Peter McCallum engagingly spoke on his
experiences at the Red Cross international
conference at Toronto. f
☆ ☆ ☆
A group of girls who form the Whern-
side Junior Auxiliary to the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital recently held a hat
parade at the Toorak home of Dr. and
Mrs. Ainslie Meare. President of the
auxiliary is Jocelyn Kirk, with Margaret
Jupp hon. sec. and Joan Taafe hon. treas.
Members of the auxiliary were the
mannequins, and there to give them en-
couragement were Lady Hurley; Mrs.
A. E. Coates, who was with Mrs. Arnold
Richardson ; Mrs. Fred Danks, who was
with Miss Annie Danks ; and Mrs. Carl
Stephens, accompanied by her daughter
Roma, while another daughter, Vivienne
Betty, organiser of auxiliaries to the
Royal Melbourne, worked behind scenes
for the parade. Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine
sat with Nan Dixon.
Clarissa Starey announced that the
Royal Melbourne Hospital was £BO
richer.
☆ ☆ ☆
Pretty girls with schooldays not far
behind them danced at the Delphic, when
the Cans Club (combined Collegians and
Grammarians) held a' cabaret-dance, at
which club president, Mrs. R. N. White,
received the guests.
Mrs. R. F. Stuart-Burnett chose a
crimson crepe gown with a finely pleated
skirt. Other helpers were Wilga Cant-
well, whose sage-green faille was em-
bellished with gold ; Sheila Morres, who
teamed a floral chiffon blouse and black
taffeta skirt ; and Kathleen Kelly, whose
choice was a deep-blue taffeta gown.
Among those who danced were Wendy
McKell, whose white-lace gown featured
a halter neckline, Yvonne dußieu, wear-
ing an off-the-shoulder cream broderie
Anglaise frock over gold taffeta, Patricia
McLeod, wearing white broderie
Anglaise, and Alison Tozer, in eau-de-Nil
tulle.
☆ ☆ ☆
Georges, of Coll ins-street, have a lovely
spring collection of teenage fashions for
country, beach and formal wear. One
in the new mam’selle designs is the
“middy” blouse, reviving the ’twenties ;
seen here in a navy linen with a sailor
collar trimmed with narrow white braid.
Useful, for it goes well with slim skirt,
slacks or pedal-pushers.
Not very graceful, but with an appeal
for the right age, is the blouse cut on
similar lines to a man’s shirt, with one
difference: it is caught at the waist in
front by an elastic cummerbund, while
the back falls loosely. It’s for wear over
a swimsuit.
The Chinese influence is seen in the
tunic, often lined with terry-towelling,
and useful after a swim. But smartest
of all beach fashions is the cotton skirt;
in the gayest of patterns and colorings,
and also used for a cape. Denims, striped
and spotted cottons and linen were all
used in effective styles, and one outfit
included a small stitched tennis-hat in
red-and-white stripes. These little hats
are made to match shorts, half-masters or
skirt.
No stiff satins or failles for the
mam’selles; instead, wonderful em-
broidered Swiss organdies or organza,
seersucker nylon, dimity, lawn and
taffeta. These fabrics fashioned grace-
ful evening-gowns, with wide skirts and
strapless bodices. In the mam’selle
fashions, too, the short, swirling evening-
dress. Under one model six petticoats
were worn to give the fullness. They are
choosing this shorter length in preference
to the long, formal gown.
☆ ☆ ☆
St. Joseph’s Church, Malvern, was
all arum-lilies when Beverley, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Bux-
ton, of Armadale, was married to John
Merrick, only son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. J. Teague, of Melbourne,
Beverley’s gown of silver lame, em-
bossed with a fleur-de-lis design, featured
a long-sleeved bodice cut with a deep
V-neckline and with the fullness at the
back of the skirt falling in a long grace-
ful train. From a coronet of diamente-
studded green-velvet leaves fell the tulle
veil.
Her two sisters, Mrs. Ross Batten and
Carolyn Buxton, with Pam Dixon and
Kathryn Cameron, were bridesmaids.
Kathryn flew specially from the U.S.A.
Their frocks were fashioned of pale-
magnolia satin, with revers at the back
and front of the bodices, and the skirts
were very full.
Afterwards Mr. and Mrs. Buxton
entertained 200 guests at the Venetian
Court of the Hotel Australia. Mrs. Bux-
ton chose a gown of pale-grey chiffon,
lightly etched in black. With an off-the-
shoulder neckline, it had full sleeves cut
to the elbow, and the full-length skirt
was diagonally pleated and worn over a
stiffened petticoat. Her lovely picture-
hat was of layers of grey tulle in several
tones. Aunt of the bride, Mrs. Raymond
Buxton, chose a gown of aqua-blue
satin, while Mrs. John Teague, whose
husband is a cousin of the ’groom, wore
a pastel-pink georgette gown with pearl
trimming on the shoulders.
Mrs. Ken McLean (Dr. McLean pro-
posed the toast of bride and ’groom)
wore a gown of crepe in soft almond-
green tonings. Mrs. Dick Buxton wore
a grey chiffon gown with matching stole,
Mrs. Hugh McKenzie pinned roses in her
hair to match her rose-red satin gown,
Mrs. Jim Peters chose black and wore a
black-and-white stole, Mrs. A. G. Silk’s
gown was of scarlet chiffon and lace,
Mrs. Gladys Myer topped her bronze-
and-black shot-taffeta gown with a white-
ermine stole. Other guests were Dr. and
Mrs. Sam Marion; Mr. and Mrs. H.
Wansley (she chose midnight-blue satin
scattered with gold sequins); Mrs. Ross
Shelmerdine, whose gown was a froth of
white tulle ; the Harley Styleses, and their
daughter Mrs. Alan Hurley, whose gown
of white organdie was patterned in a tiny
red flower ; and Mr. and Mrs. Cyril Mc-
Carthy, the latter wearing a gown of black
lace over flesh-pink satin. Honeymoon
will be in Noumea.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. John Sullivan, wife of Colonel
John Sullivan, U.S. Air Force Attache,
has \ joined the American Women’s
A uxiliary to the Children’s Hospital and
the American branch of Australian Red
Cross. Mrs. Sullivan, born in Scranton,
Pennsylvania, came with her husband
and children from their former post in
Washington, D.C. Very attractive, with
elegance in her dressing. There are four
children: John, 11, and Denis, 10 (they
attend St. Kevin’s), Mary Sharon, five,
and Jim, three.
Most important attraction at the
luncheon-party arranged by the ladies
who are organising a fete for the Legacy
Club was a stall stocked with very attrac-
tive articles, not for sale, but to be sold
on October 9, when, at the home of Mrs.
Randall Deasey, in Lansell-road, Toorak,
Lady Brooks will open the fete at 11 a.m.
The 225 • men, all with honorable
records in both world wars, who are
Melbourne’s Legatees provide free medi-
cal and dental treatment, ensure that an'
excellent education is provided, and
maintain several homes for children of
servicemen,
Mrs. T. Holder, daughter of the
president of Legacy in this city, heads
the ladies’ committee, which includes Mrs.
Norman Harris, Mrs. A. Pierce, Mrs. P.
Dietrich (her husband was president last
year), Mrs. T. Graham-Duffy, Mrs. Earl
Orr and Mrs. J. Holmes.
SYDNEY
The Town Hall bloomed like an apple-
orchard for the Lady Mayoress’s Ball on
Thursday night, the whole stage decorated
with blossom —azaleas, lilies, wistaria —
while the pillars carried huge bunches of
blossom with large white bows. The 12
debs were presented to the Governor-
General and Lady McKell, to whom they
made a double-curtsey most expertly.
The official guests welcomed by the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress included
the Premier and Mrs. J. J. Cahill, Miss
Betty McKell, wearing a dress of peacock-
blue brocade, Admiral and Mrs. H. A.
Showers, General F. H. Berryman and
Mrs. Berryman, Air - Vice - Marshal
McCauley and Mrs. McCauley, Mrs. A.
Bechove and Mr. T. E. van Ravenstein
with his fiancee, Miss Ada Fief.
Among the dancers were the R. J. F.
Boyers (Mrs. Boyer in pink brocade), Dr.
and Mrs, C. M. Guiney, Mr. and Mrs.
Norman- Jenkyn, Dr. and Mrs. A. L.
Biggs, Colonel Hayman and Mrs. Hay-
man, Mrs, Alec Morgan, accompanied
by her son Bruce, and Mrs. W. H. Oong, _
who entertained in her party Dr. and Mrs."
Baja and the Consul-General for
Nicaragua, Mr. C. Parray, with Mrs.
Parray.
☆. ☆ ☆
Doubtless the members of the art com-
munity who attended Rhys Williams’s
“Vernissage” yesterday knew just what
to expect, but poor benighted heathens
like this Letter had to look the word up
in the dictionary. In case you ever meet
it in a quiz session, it means “varnishing
day,” and is used by French painters.
☆ ☆ ☆
The spring cocktail-party held by the
younger set of the Women’s Pioneer
Society gathered together a sizeable
assembly of the young and the beautiful.
Margaret Gustafson, the new president,
welcomed the guests, helped by Ruth
Atkinson and Betty Palmer.
Bridget Green (she returns to England
within the next few weeks), Zoe West,
Mary Hawkeswood, Shirley Skyring,
Roma Brooks, Elizabeth Wallace, Audrey
Nolan and Marilyn Rogers were there.
Nita Hughes, who as Nita Day was presi-
dent of the younger set last year, brought
her husband, John. Pam Tipper, one of
the few to wear a stole, was with her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. Tipper.
Members of the senior club present
were Mrs. Wentworth Grayson and Mr.
and Mrs. Moss Craig. The party, which
was held in the pleasant clubrooms of the
Women’s Pioneer Society, concluded with
dancing.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. Gwen Fitzpatrick entertained about
14 guests at a lively luncheon-party at
the Pickwick during the week. Guest-of-
honor was Joan Parkman, from Young,
who has been paying Sydney one of her
flying visits, staying with the Fitzpatricks.
Among the guests were Gwen’s sister
Mrs. Tom Bateman, Mrs. John Bowyer,
Colleen Smith, Dr. Marie Crowe and
Mrs. M. McDermott.
☆. ☆ ☆
For her marriage to Dr. Robert Gill
on Thursday evening at St. Martin’s,
Killara, Margaret Salenger wore a
beautiful dress of cloth-of-silver covered
with seven layers of white tulle appliqued
with silver lilies. Her flowers were white
orchids, and her veil of heavily-
embroidered Brussels lace was lent by
Mrs. J. D. Flockhart.
Bridesmaids were Elinor Douglas
(Brisbane), and the bride’s nieces Elaine
Anderson and Margaret Munro. They
wore pink organza over net and taffeta,
with flower-encircled Brussels caps.
Elinor carried pink orchids ; Elaine’s and
Margaret’s bouquets were of English
pinks.
The bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. E. H.
Salenger, of Killara, received the guests
at a reception at the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron. Honeymoon is at Lord Howe
Island.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Red Cross Chelsea Flower Show
at Brisbane City Hall today (Oct. 1) and
tomorrow has an inter-State and overseas
interest with flowers sent from New Zea-
land and New Guinea, and each State
also contributing both wildflowers and
flowers which grow only in its particular
region. Mrs. G. S. Crouch is convenor
for the sixth successive year, and her co-
convenor, Mrs. G. R. Hinder, enters her
third year. Mrs. E. T. Dobbin has been
honorary secretary of the function since
it began. The poem “The Glory of the
Garden,” by Rudyard Kipling, is depicted
in tableau as a special feature.
☆ ☆ ☆
This Letter likes Tarien for the Epsom
(if it’s of interest to anyone).
☆ ' ☆ ☆
This bright face belongs to Mrs. P. D.
Hills, who on December 9 will become
the new Lady Mayoress of Sydney. Mrs.
Hills, who lives at Maroubra, is the
mother of five youngsters: Carol (10),
Maria (7), Michael (5), Paul (2) and baby
Margaret, five months. A war-orphan
herself and formely a Junior Legatee,
Mrs. Hills is naturally interested in
Legacy, and though domestic activities
have kept her busy since her marriage she
looks forward with pleasure to the
increased social activities in her
duties as Lady Mayoress, says she
is “thrilled” with her husband’s new
appointment, and is determined to help
him make it a success. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
Elizabeth Northcott will open the
exhibition of Chelsea and Chelsea Derby
porcelain at Lipscombe’s Antique shop,
183 Elizabeth-street tomorrow (Thursday)
at 3 p.m. It is said that the value of the
200 pieces to be shown is about £50,000.
Arranged by the Ceramics Society, the
exhibition has been assembled from the
collections of connoisseurs, including
Mrs. Penfold Hyland, Mrs. A. Robb, Mr.
G. Doling, Dr. Keith Kirkland and Mr.
J. H. Burden.
☆ ☆ ☆
It’s always well to know the end of a
story, so it’s worth reporting that the shop
at Southport (Q.) which was publicised as
selling sandwiches at and 2d. each
certainly does so. The only thing is that
the shop defines a sandwich as a quarter
of what is normally called a sandwich, so
that the double round for lunch would
cost 6d. or Bd,
☆ ☆ ☆
The Royal Art Society seems to go in
for parties in quite a big way for the
opening (or should we say “vernissage”)
of its exhibition. There were three
invitations in all, all quite “inviting.”
At the first party in the Education
Department’s Gallery one saw many
artists and patrons qf the arts being
welcomed by president Erik Langker and
Mrs. Langker, whose smile and little
flowered cloche reminded one that it
really was spring. Phyllis Brodziak
looked smart in a vividly-striped skirt,
sleeveless black blouse and black sailor
hat. Mrs. A. W. Keighley’s red acces-
sories caught the eye. Mrs. Frank Louat
surveyed the paintings with Mrs. Ernest
Buckwalter. Mr. and Mrs. Harry
Twigden couldn’t resist Elsie Danger-
field’s happy little watercolor of St. Ives.
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Sherman discussed the
paintings with Miss Carrie Lanceley and
the J. W. Hayeses, and everyone
wondered just how Howard Ashton had
got that particular view of our ’arbor,
☆ ☆
People have often wondered why
Sydney’s favorite lunching-places are in
basements. This Letter, after a lunch-
hour tour during the week of Prince s,
the Pickwick and Romano’s, thinks it’s a
precaution against the roof being raised
by the chatter of the feminine throng.


Garbage into
good earth
At a remarkable plant in
Oakland, California, Dr. Ehren-
fried E. Pfieffer turns new
strains of bacteria loose on
garbage—converting it into a
sweet-smelling black earth that
is performing virtual miracles
for agriculture.
October Reader’s Digest tells
the complete story of how Dr.
Pfieffer, a refugee from the
Nazis, discovered and is now
producing this revolutionary
new kind of compost, which
may prove to be the answer
to the world-wide need for
cheap, natural organic matter.
Enjoy this and thirty other
stimulating articles in October
Reader’s Digest, now on sale.
Unparalleled reading value for
all the family at one shilling
and sixpence—all newsagents
and bookstalls.
PROTECT
YOUR
A SSETS
On today** value* are you
properly covered? Now ia
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6k YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
%fAvt
BRIT
SH
«
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
a
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conwoy Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
iKNis m.
W 0
- h
I «
With the electric welding kit with a thousand uses. Welds cracks and
holes m car bodies, mudguards, radiators, etc. Repairs motor-cycles,
domestic appliances, sheet metal work, etc. It solders and brazes, too.
Many useful articles can be made such as Station Wagon Bodies, Radio
Chassis, Caravan Bodies, etc.
The kit is easy to operate and it quickly pays for itself in time and money
saved. Works from 6-volt or 12-volt battery. Call in for free demonstra-
tion of welding or send now for this complete welding kit; comprising
a high-grade welding tool, 10 feet of welding cable and 3 battery clips,
assortment of welding rods, flux, electrodes, and complete working instruc-
tions.
This welding kit is the only one sold in Australia with a 6-point guarantee:—
6
POINT
GUARANTEE
• Fully guaranteed for two years.
• The only kit sold fully complete.
• After sales service. Renewals of welding
rods, electrodes, etc., can be supplied at small
cost.
• Free technical service. After purchase you
may at any time write to ns for further
instructions free.
• We ; guarantee you will become proficient at
welding. The quality of the welding kit, plus
the complete instructions and free technical
gives you every aid to weld skilfully.
• Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded
in full.
This complete welding kit, instructions, and 6 point guarantee
will be mailed to you for £4/15/6, Write NOW. You risk
nothing. Send for your kit TODAY. POST COUPON NOW.
PACIFIC HOME SUPPLIES
378 Burnley Street, Burnley, E.l, Victoria.
Enclosed is £4/15/6. Please send me complete Welding Kit
and six point guarantee. If at the end of 14 days I do not wish
to keep it, I will return it in good order, and you will refund
my £4/15/6 in full. Please write in BLOCK CAPITALS.
NAME -
ADDRESS
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Royal Art Society
With Norman Lindsay absent
and Lance Solomon not quite
at his best in a pleasant but
rather thin “Gateway to the
River” there is not much force
about this year’s Royal Art
Society exhibition. The most
ambitious landscape, a huge
chunk of Harbor heads by
Howard Ashton, is effective in
patches—the grassy slope in the
foreground, the sunlit wall of
rock across the water —but the
canvas as a whole looks strained,
disjointed and much too hard.
But at least the walls of the
Education Department Gallery
are lit by two beautiful Percy
Lindsay landscapes, loaned from
Albert J. Sherman’s collection
and hung as a memorial gesture.
Both are the studies of light in
which he excelled sunlight
penetrating the bush and gilding
the gumtops in one, sunlight
playing about the silvery edges
of a mass of cloud and suffusing
the countryside below it in the
other —and,, small as they are,
they stand, out from a whole
wall, of landscapes by other
artists because they seem to be
irradiated by light itself, not
some convenient formula for it.
One other outstanding painting
is Mary Edwards’s “Australiana,”
one of the symbolical assem-
blages she has many times
attempted, and the most success-
ful this commentator has seen.
It is a big flowerpiece in oils,
crowded with meticulously
accurate wildflowers waratah,
bottlebrush, honey-flower/native-
rose, tufted heath, waxflower and
the grey spider - flower with
budgerigars, parrots, a white
cockatoo, a blue-wren and a
butterfly included; the whole
thing caught lip in a sweeping,
circular rhythm centralised by
the bright eye of the cockatoo,
and glowing with pinks and
crimsons. It is almost an illus-
tration ; essentially a decoration
rather than a living flash of the
bush ; but it is an excellent thing
in its! kind and it is hard to think
of any other painter conceiving
it and executing it so well.
There is also a distinguished
portrait by Garrett Kingsley en-
titled “1880,” attractive in its
suave paint and quiet dignity;
and some other works that catch
the eye are Hayward Veal’s
bluish impression of “Black-
friar’s Bridge,” H. Edgecombe’s
“Macquarie Pass,” J. H. R.
Rousel’s fine and firm portrait
of “An Eastern Merchant,” John
Rowell’s red hill in “Sun-
scorched,” Howard Ashton’s
small “Rain on the Dunes,” and
Robert Johnson’s “Ninety-Mile
Beach.”
A slight collection of drawings
is enlivened by an irresistibly-
supercilious nude by John Baird.
The watercolors, except for the
usual competent panel of Towns-
hends and a slight study of wind-
swept trees and clouds by Erik
Langker, are so weak as to sug-
gest that this section should
be abandoned or reinforced from
the Watercolor Institute.
♦♦♦
Grosvenor Gallery
A “Spring Show” at Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries is very
much like a smaller edition of
the Royal Art exhibition, except
that it includes a group of
modernistic works which do no-
thing to improve it: Roland
Wakelin’s small landscape shines
like ,a candle among these vague
attempts to capture nothing in
particular. Amongst the more
orthodox paintings, undistin-
guished as a whole, the chief
interest is in a small Streeton
from the original 9x5 exhibi-
tion, a little boats-and-water
scene by Harley Griffiths, one
of Frank McNamara’s brilliant
watercolors of the industrial
Harbor, some costume-pieces by
Paul Jones and some thinly-
pleasing landscapes by S. Wood-
ward Smith. The one major
painting on view is a bush land-
scape by Lance Solomon, ragged,
wild, charming and alive with
vigor.
Talkies
“Cry, the Beloved Country”
One of the strengths of this
arresting production at Sydney
Esquire is that, apart from an
ordinary human plea for toler-
ance, it rushes to no conclusions
about the problem it presents
with such poignant feeling—the
impact of white civilisation on
a primitive people unable to
adapt themselves to it.
In this case it is South Africa,
with the negroes leaving their
farms and flocking to the money
and excitement of Johannesburg,
where, for every one that pros-
pers, many more fall easily into
crime and rotting degradation.
That picture is unfolded in the
story of a negro priest who goes
from his village to Johannesburg
to search for his son, and, after
following his trail of vice and
petty crime, finds him only after
he has been arrested for murder.
The victim was a white man,
a young idealist and crusader
for the betterment of natives
and the son of a white farmer
from the same district as the
priest. Some of the most moving
business of the film is in its
compassionate observation of
these two parents, of the larger
problems they represent and of
their finding of some mutual
understanding in their common
bond of grief.
Canada Lee as the old priest,
Sidney Poitier as a younger one
and Charles Carson as the father
of the murdered man all give
performances of remarkable
dignity and sensitivity. The
photographic exploration of the
farmlands and of the slums and
brothels of the, negro shanty
town on the outskirts of
Johannesburg are almost as
articulate.
❖ ❖ ❖
“I Was a Communist”
In “I Was a Communist for
the F. 8.1.” (Sydney Palace),
Frank Lovejoy plays Cvetic,
who, the film says, gave the
Federal Investigation Bureau a
nine-years’ ball-by-ball of Com-
munist plots in Pittsburgh, and
then spilled the beans on the
Pittsburgh leaders before the
Un-American Activities Commit-
tee at Washington.
Cvetic’s son gets into trouble
at school when kids call his
father, a Communist; his brother
bops him in the belly at their
mother’s funeral : Lovejoy en-
dures all this with a thick
wooden face burnt with two
small black holes. But the
son’s Communist schoolteacher,
Dorothy Hart, thinks he’s nice ;
she does not tell the Party about
the letter Cvetic wrote to be
given his son in the event of
his death, explaining his con-
nection with the F. 8.1.; more-
over, when she sees factory-
workers and union organisers
being bashed into line by Com-
munist toughs using iron pipes
wrapped in Jewish newspapers,
she blows her top.
Lovejoy gets her out of her
apartment by a side-exit as the
murderers come up the front
stairs, but a second pair of mur-
derers follow the escapees to
a pleasing pistol-battle in a
train-tunnel.
The connoisseur of ingenuity
should find plenty to interest
him in the details of many Com-
munist tricks.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Scaramouche”
M.-G.-M. have given Sabatini
a powerful American accent and
cooked him up into a cheerful 7
stretch of technicolored derring-
do with enough fancy sword-
play to carve the meat from a
gross of deformed turkeys. Stew-
art Granger is the agile young
fellow who can’t marry the
wench of his choice because he
thinks she’s his sister, and who
can’t skewer the aristo he’s been
sweating on for most of the film
because he’s his brother.
Despite such frustrations he
appears to have a whale of a
time galloping from here to there
and back across the country-
side, and dealing by turns with
antagonistic males and amorous
females. Mel Ferrer and Henry
Wilcoxon give him most
trouble, and Nina Foch, Eleanor
Parker and Janet Leigh offer him
some delightful compensation
for it.
At Sydney Liberty and St.
James and suburban Metros.
“Marshmallow Moon”
This lightly-agreeable musical-
comedy at Sydney Prince Edward
is down among the corn and
pigs and cows, with Dinah Shore
as the widow who wants to sell
her farm and migrate to the ex-
citements of Chicago, and with
Alan Young as the neighboring
farmer who don’t think much of
the notion. The lady has her
way, of course, and it takes the
rural native shrewdness of Mr.
Young to rescue her from the
city go-getters and take her back
to Punkin Crick,
It’s an unpretentious and pleas-
ant little item, owing a good deal
of its success to Young, who
seems to have made a study of
the amiable and ingratiating ways
of both Bing Crosby and the
late Will Rogers.
* ❖ ❖
“Golden Girl”
Local-girl-makes-good is the
theme of this Technicolor song-
andance, set in California during
the American Civil War, and the
variations on it aren’t strikingly
original. It goes over well, how-
ever, due chiefly to Mitzi Gay-
nor, whose talents as dancer and
light singer are supplemented by
charm and spontaneous gaiety.
At Sydney Mayfair.
Stage and Music
“Tales of Hoffmann”
Sydney Musical Society and
the Metropolitan Musical Society
pooled their resources of artistic
experience and technical know-
ledge to produce Offenbach’s
opera at Sydney Con.
It was a bold venture, each of
the three acts excluding the
prologue and epilogue wherein
Hoffmann starts and finishes the
tale of his three love-affairs —
being as full of snags as a pocket-
ful of fishhooks. Particularly
is that so in the first, the “Doll
act.” It says much for the care
that must have gone into rehear-
sals that the production creaked
only at a few points, and those
mainly to do with subsidiary
roles.
The principals acquitted them-
selves well. Nerissa Niblo was
the Olympia of the piece, and
her simulation of the automaton
was quite convincingly handled.
Her flexible soprano, of nice
tone in the centre of the gamut,
took on a too-thin edge in the
higher regions. Gladys Maw-
son, whose soprano is of good
dramatic weight, made Giulietta
rather unnecessarily slinky;
Beryl Hardy as the consumptive
Antonia pulled no punches in
the love-scenes, and sang finely.
Hoffmann was a very satisfac-
tory piece of casting. Michael
Khlentzos has a tenor of ring-
ing tone and a clear diction, with
a commanding stage-presence
and an easy, assured manner.
Upon him and Neil Easton fell
the bulk of the night’s work.
“Vintage for Heroes”
From Warwick Fairfax:
In your interesting reviews of
both my plays you make the
same point; that is, that while
life is a mixture of comedy and
tragedy, you can’t have it both
ways on the stage. May I ask
why not? Are plays, unlike life,
to be put into watertight com-
partments, labelled “Comedy,”
“Tragedy,” “Romance”? Does
not the sudden onset of tragedy
in real-life often leave you gasp-
ing, as you say my last act
does?
The tragedy of Shaw, with
whom you compare my comedy,
is that he was incapable of
tragedy. His love-affairs never
passed the level of light comedy,
and even in “St. Joan” we are
treated more to ridicule of
Joan’s persecutors rather than
to any tragedy of Joan herself.
In my view people as far apart
as Chaplin and Shakspeare have
shown that anything of dramatic
worth must, like life, contain
elements of both comedy and
tragedy. I will fight to the death
to maintain that viewpoint, and
what you intend, therefore, as a
criticism I insist on taking as a
compliment. Indeed, your state-
ment that my last act is tragic
and moving is a compliment I
deeply appreciate.
If you imply that I switch
rather too suddenly from
comedy to tragedy, that, per-
haps, is a point well taken. By
asking the audience for another
10 minutes and by gaining at
least 10 more by using the stage
machinery of a proper theatre
for more rapid changes, I think
I could attend to that point. I
wrote “A Victorian Marriage”
too long and was anxious not
to repeat the mistake.
❖ ❖ ❖
“St. Joan”
Only five members of the
original Melbourne production
remained in the cast of the
National Drama Company’s
Hobart presentation of Shaw’s
“St. Joan” at the Royal, which
probably accounted for the
mediocre performance. Shaw
never expected his play to be
performed in such a spirit of
mock gravity, and his Joan is a
robust, bucolic figure far stronger
in character and personality than
June Brunch's portrayal.
Reg Gillam as the Dauphin,
and Harry Starling, who played
both Bluebeard and Brother
Martin, were outstanding, while
Peter Batey, Edward Morcom
and Bruce Growl were obviously
capable of better work, and
would probably have given
better performances had they not
each had to play two or more
roles.


THE HAIRY MEN, FROM
HANNIGANS.
HALY
by GAVIN
CASEY
POLISH JOE was seven feet
high. Scientific instru-
ments and mathematical
calculations were needed
to estimate his width. He was
ageless, mature without being
old, in full vigor without being
young. He was a roarer and a
swaggerer, but he never offended
anybody worth not offending by
his wild, joyous, noisy enthusi-
asm for himself and his mates.
There were a thousand and nine
stories about him, seventy-four
newspaper articles and five
pieces of poetry.
He was the hero of the single-
handed rescue on the Dublin
Luck, when a winch on the
800-foot level had failed, and he
had hauled Dutchy Schmall
hand-over-hand up a forty-foot
winze before the shots Dutchy
had set at the bottom went off.
He was the man who had drunk
Gallon O’Beer, the Thirsty
Whisky Traveller, under the
table at the Slag and Slimes
Hotel, and then consumed a
bottle and a half of a different
brand to get the taste of Gal-
lon’s inferior rubbish out of his
mouth. He brought an old-
fashioned light into the wild eye
of Mother Suggs, of the Slag
and Slimes, whenever she saw
him, and at the same time
melted the defences of Gloria
Glasson, the fancy blonde be-
hind the bar at the Railway, so
thoroughly that she would only
go out with mine-managers and
machinery-travellers with big
expense accounts when Polish
Joe didn’t need her.
Joe was a gambler who bel-
lowed with delight, win or lose,
so loudly that it should have
brought the hot scones from five
miles away. He was the human
crane-cum-tractor who had dis-
covered Ekker McLennan, the
gold-buyer, bogged to the axle
fifteen miles along the Border-
road, had heaved and hauled his
car out of the mud and had
towed motor and driver to town
behind his pushbike. He was an
oversized human shape built out
of steel and springy wire-cable,
with the urgent strength of a
gelignite explosion and the slow
power of the soft, irresistible
steam that quietly revolves the
giant drums of winding-engines.
But he was no dumb ox. He
was the man who carried Springy
Turf’s horse-trough to the top
of the Liverpool Dump.
PLAT time, it all happened
finally in the dusk of the
great drinking afternoon of a
Saturday short shift, when two
hundred muscly men were bel-
lowing and arguing about any-
thing and everything in and
around the bar of Springy’s
Tramstop Tavern. Suddenly
about twenty of the men dis-
covered they were arguing about
Polish Joe’s strength, and that
Springy was disparaging it. The
score of men flew into a real
rage immediately, and a hundred
more caught on and got ready
for some knuckle-work without
the slightest idea of what it was
all about. Polish Joe drank his
beer, and didn’t say much, be-
cause none of them and no com-
bination of them could have
hurt him, anyway. But when it
began to look as though they
might wreck the bar, from
which he would need more beer
for several hours, he took a
hand.
“Mister,” Polish Joe said to
Springy, “would y’ reckon I
was a bit strong if I could pull
that horse-trough 'outside out
of th’ ground?”
“I seen men who coulda did
that,” said Springy challengingly.
“Would it prove anything if
I could put it on me back an’
carry it?” Joe asked softly.
“You wouldn’t be so bad if
you done that,” Springy ad-
mitted. “Not that I couldn’t o’
done it meself when I was your
age.”
All the men who could sec
through the doors of the pub
looked at the great iromand-
timber trough and roared with
disbelief and indignation, but
Polish Joe quietly drank two
more pint pewters of beer and
then said: “What if I hoisted it
on me back an’ took it up to
th’ top o’ th’ Liverpool Dump?”
There was a gasp, and then a
silence, because the Liverpool
Dump was the highest and the
steepest on the whole Golden
Plain, and it took an ordinary
man all his time to scramble to
the top of it without carrying
anything. It was a quarter of a
mile from the Tramstop Tavern,
but even at that distance it
towered over the little pub like
a statue of surly wrath. Look-
ing at it made Springy’s eyes
light up, and he said “No stops
between here and th’ top?”
“No stops, mister, if you got
two quid that says I can’t do it,”
Polish Joe agreed.
SO there was an outbreak of
chatter among the mob, and
a lot of side-wagering, because
here was something few thought
even Polish Joe could do.
They watched while he
carried out the easy part of it,
which was merely tearing the
six-by-six legs of the trough out
of eighteen inches of packed and
sun-baked earth, and their own
bones ached in sympathy when
Polish Joe’s great thigh-muscles
burst both legs of his dungarees
for eighteen inches as he
crouched his vast frame under
the trough and rose with it on
his shoulders. They followed
along with him over the flat,
shouting encouragement and
singing, and still betting, and
after a hundred yards eight of
them ran back for pints of beer,
because Polish Joe would cer-
tainly get thirsty on the way and
wouldn’t be allowed to stop until
he reached the top of the Liver-
pool Dump.
At the foot of the dump most
fell back, and the few who tried
to climb with him soon lost
their footholds through beer
and excitement and came rolling
and tumbling to the bottom. But
Polish Joe went on, with his
great boots kicking toeholds in
the earth like rockdrifis biting
into the stone underground.
There was a moment of sus-
pense when the lace of his left
boot broke with a crack like an
overloaded main cable and he
stumbled.
He fell forward with the half-
ton iron cape on his shoulders,
and he could not have let go
with his hands or it would have
fallen. So he bit into the Liver-
pool Dump with his teeth and
steadied himself, and when he
turned around and spat out the
mouthful of dirt those below
were spattered with stones as
CAYS Gavin Casey: It may be of Interest that the first major
" incident in this story is based on an achievement by a fabulous
Kalgoorlie character known as Kussian Jack, who did, in fact,
uproot a mighty horse-trough from in front of a hotel at Fimiston,
carry it on his back to the top of Horseshoe Dump for a
small bet and mirthfully refuse all offers by the publican to
bring it down again.
As far as the writer is aware there have never been any public
“bogging contests” on the goldfields, but in 1933, when he himself
was running cycle-racing and general athletic programmes there,
he made all the plans ,to conduct one. What interfered with the
last carnival of the summer was the anti-foreign riots of that
year, which left the town broke. The writer has no doubt that
such a contest would be a roaring success, and might even get
around to promoting one one of these days.
though the Liverpool Dump had
erupted into a volcano. When
he was halfway up,
silhouetted against the darken-
ing sky, he looked bigger than
the dump, bigger than the mines
around, and the pub and the
shops and the town the biggest
thing in the world,
When Polish Joe came down
he was pleased and very tmrsty,
and the drinking started in
earnest, and the less reliable
characters who had seen him
carry the trough to the top of
the Liverpool Dump immedi-
ately started making up stones
about the affair that were exag-
gerated. Springy Turf did a
dazzling trade until midnight.
but he was a mean man, and
was never satisfied, and it
occurred to him that he now
lacked a horse-trough. He
asked Polish Joe when he was
going to bring it down and put
it in place again, and Joe said
he wasn’t.
When Polish Joe said that, the
laughter from the pub made
afternoon-shift surface-workers
on the mines think there was a
fall of earth somewhere. Then
Springy offered Polish Joe one
pound to bring his trough back,
and lost his temper nine times
bidding it up to a tenner. But
Joe still said no, and at that
stage Springy said “To hell with
the lot of you! I’d rather get a
new one than pay a penny
more.”
After that they wrecked the
Tramstop Tavern bar and
moved off to the Slag and
Slimes and made a night of it.
And next day the management
of the Liverpool Mine saw the
humor of the situation, and
ordered Springy Turf to remove
his rubbish from the top of their
dump. Before it was all over
Springy employed three men and
two horses for two days and
had to pay the cost of a horse
which broke both its legs and
had to be destroyed; one man
with a caterpillar-tractor for a
week, during which he never suc-
ceeded in getting more than
one-third of the way up the
Liverpool Dump; and finally
one old man with an auger and
plugs of gelignite, who blew his
horse-trough into small, untrace-
able pieces.
Springy also had to buy a new
trough, and the total cost must
have been a hundred times the
two pounds he had bet Polish
Joe and twenty times the ten
pounds at which he had stopped
bidding for Joe to bring his
property down and put it in its
place again. Everybody laughed
for a month, and Polish Joe him-
self laughed so loudly that the
Chamber of Mines sent him an
official request to stop, because
the tumultuous vibrations of
mirthful sound were cracking
the concrete foundations that
carried the poppet-legs of the
mines.
\ X/ITH Polish Joe a man like
VV that, you wouldn’t think
anybody would argue with him
or about him. But apart from
the fact that the beer from the
Golden Plain Brewery makes
five-foot men feel like six-foot
men and six-foot men feel like
skyscrapers, even a sober gold-
fielder feels much larger and
more combative than most
people. Polish Joe was a
bogger, a man who shifted un-
believable quantities of dirt
away from the face from which
it had been blown, and into
trucks for dumping in the
underground bins each day. And
the only bogger on the Golden
Plain who believed in his heart
that he could not shift more
dirt than Polish Joe on his right
day was an ex-accountant, dis-
missed from his city job for
funny-business with the books,
who had been working in the
mines for only two and a half
weeks and had had three of his
ribs kicked out of place in a
football match the previous
Sunday.
When the promoters of the
St. Patrick’s Day sports decided
that, if towns in the timber coun-
try could have their log-chops
at their annual shows, then the
goldfields should have periodi-
cal competitions at shifting
broken stone with a shovel, all
the betting was on Polish Joe,
but there was no lack of bogolo-
gists who thought they could
beat him, even if nobody else
did. Every mine had at least
one man in training, and they
all swung their banjoes so hard
that production costs dropped.
The managements regarded
boggers’ championships as the
best idea anybody had had since
the rock-drill.
As the men trained and
managed to shift more and more
earth, their mates got enthusi-
astic about them, and kidded
themselves that Polish Joe
mightn’t win, after all. After a
while there was some money
available to back others, and
the pubs were full of men
telling lies about how many
trucks Fancy Larsen and Pimply
Horace Griller and Loop Mc-
Gallick and Ostrich O’Hara had
filled in an eight-hour shift.
By the time St. Patrick’s Day
arrived half the people had lost
interest in the bike-races and the
billygoats and the Irish dancing
and the sprinters, and there had
been fifty-three fights, and two
divorces and a libel action had
been scheduled, because of
high feelings about the boggers.
The shrewd money was still on
Polish Joe in spite of the short
odds, but from sheer patriotism
the Irish made a solid block for
a man called O’Flaherty, and the
Pimpernel South was alleged to
have a dark horse in a short,
square, evil-tempered man called
Lobb. Polish Joe was so con-
fident that he spent the prize-
money and the winnings from
most of his bets on himself in
advance, buying drinks for his
cobbers. But, being the man he
was, he didn’t make anybody
hate him because of his
exuberant self-confidence, not
even the Irish.
The day before the sports the
tracks for the runners were laid
out, and the platform for the
dancers, and at the same time
big trucks came in and out of
the recreation - ground and
dumped a ton of good, rough,
underground stone on each of
a dozen quarter-inch steel
plates. There were eight plates
for nominations already ac-
cepted, and four in case there
were any post-entries at double
fees. The plates and the stone
were just beside the main grand-
stand, and, by the time the stand
was looking as green as the
lawn of the football-field be-
cause of all the ribbons people
were wearing, there were nine
men with shovels ready to shift
the dirt into trucks the height
and size of mine-trucks. The
soulless people among the
crowd were watching the bikes
swooping around the track, or
getting drunk in the bar ; but
the sensitive and intelligent ones
had got drunk earlier and were
crowded around the boggers,
mostly hammering Polish Joe
on the back or laughing at the
ninth man, the only post-entry.
Number nine, who had
slapped his money down
and pulled his shovel out at the
last moment, was from the out-
back. He was from Hannigan’s
Halt, where there was only one
mine worth the name, and he
was an old, lean, stiff-limbed,
hairy man who looked ridicu-
lous alongside Polish Joe or
even the other competitors. Joe
shone with health and vitality,
his big, eager moustache bristl-
ing, and his laugh echoing, and
his enormous chest bare and
bulging with muscle. He wore
a wide, showy, leather belt, and
his trousers were underground
dungarees, but they were washed
into bleached beauty and ironed
into creaseless perfection. He
was full of beer, like all the
other competitors, but that was
the proper way to be, because
the sluggish liquid of the beer
would sweat out of them in the
first five minutes and the strength
and goodness of it would stay
in their vitals.
The hairy man from Hanni-
gan’s Halt had a leather belt,
too, but It was the sort they
issued to soldiers in the First
World War, and it clamped his
pants on to his herring guts
over a deplorable grey flannel
singlet. All around the belt
there were pouches and sheaths,
and anyone who was old enough
knew that these contained a
Boyproof watch with a kero-
sene-stained dial, a skinning-
knife, a compass, a copy of Such
Is Life, by Tom Collins, and a
pint bottle of 0.p.-rum in case
of snakebite or exhaustion.
And even the receptacles on
his belt weren’t enough for him.
He wore a ragged waistcoat,
with a pipe in one pocket, a
plug of villainous tobacco in
another, a machine for reboring
and decarbonising the pipe Li
the third and an extra bottle of
0.p.-rum, in case of snakebite
or exhaustion, in the fourth.
He was a sad, aged, rheu-
maticky-looking man, with a lot
of hair on his face and none
worth worrying about on his
head, and among the crowd was
a wild, hairy crew of his friends
from Hannigan’s Halt, looking
much like he did, except that
some were longer and some were
shorter, and some were narrower
and some were wider, and some
carried three or four bottles of
0.p.-rum because they were
cautious. They were not cautious
with their money, though, and
the bookies chuckled richly as
they took vast wads of it
wagered on their creaky old
cobber to win the boggers’
championship.
WHEN the event started
Polish Joe tossed shovelfuls
of ore twenty feet into the air,
and every last grain of it fell
square in the centre of the truck
he was filling. Every sixth
shovelful he paused for three-
fifths of a second, while he swal-
lowed a pint of beer, and after
each pint six shovels would go
into the truck, dead centre, so
fast that you couldn’t see his
arms move, and the stone
(Continued on page 22)


®sSSa&
FINEST
M
¥ "•
/
m
\
T .
m
'• '
SSife
■
'
ft:
• Mfe..
: v ... .
-X
9
c
\
-A
-
.
-
£«
;:V',f,
■y'y-■■'■'
;, .■•••>:
';
5*
'm
m
.
-
mMMm
Fly — on one
ROUND-THE-WORLD
concession air ticket
FLY
THE
BRITISH
ROUND-THE-WORLD ),
AIR SYSTEM
ADVANTAGES OF THE BRITISH ROUND-THE-WORLD AIR SYSTEM
Your entire trip planned in
advance without booking fee.
One ticket all the way.
Traditional British service,
delicious hot and cold meals,
complimentary refreshments.
Break-of-journey facilities in
the world’s great cities at no
extra air fare. Transport and
hotel accommodation at all
night stops. Courteous British
tourist advisory service at every
point.
Characteristic British attention
to every detail of on-the-
ground service as well as in
the air~all included —no
gratuities. Hospitality and
dependable flying skill every
mile of the way.
To bring you an entirely new conception of Round-the-World
travel comfort and convenience these four great British
airlines are linked in one unique global system.
One all-inclusive, concession ticket takes you all the way ,
through a dozen or more countries, to the world’s most
colourful cities, ancient and modern, in luxurious four-engined,
pressurized airliners under the skilled command of veteran British fliers.
Choice of direction —East to West or West to East. Choice of timetable
—circle the earth in less than a week, or take as long as you wish.
Enquire now about this British System of Round-the-World
air travel with “short trip” convenience.
S
ft l
*
■ ■
See INDONESIA • MALAYA • INDIA
CEYLON • PAKISTAN • MIDDLE EAST
EUROPE o ENGLAND • U.S.A.
CANADA • HAWAII • FIJI • NEW
ZEALAND. Book through your Travel Agent
or any office of QANTAS or BCPA.
gf
h
r
gh
BAS3a
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD.
(Inc. in Queensland)
MEMBER OF THE BRITISH ROUND-THE-WORLD AIR SYSTEM WITH 8.0.A.C , BCPA,
9 9
AND TEAL


sprayed in a high arc, like water
out of a fountain. The thunder
of the rock from Polish Joe’s
shovel falling on the iron bot-
tom of his truck was so loud
that nobody could hear any
announcements over the public-
address system, and they had to
abandon the rest of the pro-
gramme until the boggers’
championship was finished, and
soon the whole crowd was clus-
tered around the iron plates, or
craning over the northern side
of the grandstand trying to
watch the men with the banjoes.
They were all watching Polish
Joe and telling each other
stories about the other things he
had done, except for the hairy
men from Hannigan’s Halt, and
somewhere underneath their
wild whiskers these regrettable
characters started to grin. No-
body except them noticed their
aged, creaky cobber, but he had
a shovel you could shave with,
and he used it well. When he
slid it over his iron plate and
under the stone it tumbled the
rocks neatly on to its blade.
There was never a pebble too
many that might fall off when
he swung the contents into his
truck, and there was never one
too few to destroy the perfect
symmetry of the pyramid of
stone he was sending to where
it belonged. Every time he
threw his joints groaned, but
every shovelful went into the
truck, and the bottom grain of
each just grazed the side on the
way.
The judges had nothing to
criticise, and the crowd had
nothing spectacular to watch,
but the old, sunburned man
from Hannigan’s Halt was doing
all right. All the judges were
utterly astonished when they
were watching Polish Joe scrape
together the last bits of dirt on
his iron plate to hear a wild yell
from the hairy men and to see
that their candidate’s plate was
as clean as a saucer of milk that
has been dealt with by a starv-
ing cat. They had a conference
that lasted most of the way
through a five-gallon keg, but
finally there was nothing they
could do but award the cham-
pionship to the hairy man with
the waistcoat.
Polish Joe only laughed, but
his supporters roared with anger,
and because there were about
ten-thousand of them it made a
considerable noise. Fights broke
out everywhere, not because
everybody didn’t agree that what
had happened was impossible,
but just because the obvious
way to deal with such a situation
is to punch somebody on the
nose.
POLISH JOE and the hairy
man, neither of whom was
Irish, ignored all the turmoil
and looked at each other with
respect.
“You’re pretty good, mate,”
said Polish Joe.
“I bin at th’ game a long
time,” the hairy man said
apologetically,
“I’m an extra good man on a
winze,” Joe told him. “I got th’
strength to chuck th’ dirt right
out until I’m about twenty feet
down, I’d like to sink a winze
alongside of you.”
“I done a bit in me time,” the
hairy man admitted. “I’d like a
go at you jist f’r the fun of it.
What about here an’ now?”
They got the judges and
arranged it, and all Polish Joe’s
backers were much encouraged
by the way he grabbed his ten-
by-ten quarter-inch steel plate,
and slung it aside as though it
were a pocket-handkerchief, to
make room for the shaft-sinking
contest. The hairy man had to
get eight of his hairy mates to
help him shift his plate, and then
the judges marked out spaces six
feet square and the pair went to
work,
Polish Joe saved his strength,
but he didn’t save enough of it.
He only threw the dirt ten feet
in the air, and he cut his pints
of beer down to one for every
ten shovels. The hairy man slid
his dirt over the edge of the hole
like a snake coming out of the
ground, and only took a suck at
the spout of his old waterbag
twice from start to finish. Both
men signalled they were through
at the same time, and the mob
went mad at the prospect of a
dead - heat. A bookmaker
swooned, and another set out for
New Zealand on a racing-bicycle
stolen from beside the training-
shed, and the best cost-
accountants on the ground
couldn’t estimate how many
fights started.
But when the judges measured
up the little shafts the men had
dug, they found that Polish
Joe’s was two inches short of the
agreed eight feet on the west
side, and had a lump three and
three-sixteenths of an inch high
in the middle. The hairy man’s
hole was flatter than a billiard-
table at the bottom, and nothing
but a micrometer-gauge would
have established the fact that it
was deeper on one wall than
on another. They had to
announce him the winner.
The hairy man felt so good
that he offered Polish Joe one
of his pints of 0.p.-rum. Polish
Joe drank the rum and crunched
the bottle between his teeth, and
bought a demijohn of whisky for
each of them and started to talk
about tunnelling. “I got the
reach fr that,” he said. “I can
chuck th’ dirt back so far that
when I started th’ thousand-foot
drive on th’ Star of the South
they had to shift th’ shaft back
fifty feet t’ give me room.”
“I don’t wanner boast,” the
hairy man told him, “but I done
much th’ same at th’ Drongo
North before I went back t’ the
bush again. They took me shovel
away frum me, an’ made me
work with a teaspoon, so that
th’ rest o’ th’ mob an’ th’ skips
an’ th’ treatment-plant could
keep up with me.”
“We could make a bit of a
drive, out from th’ shafts we jist
dug,” Polish Joe suggested.
“I’d be in that, mate,” the
hairy man said eagerly, easing a
rheumatic kink out of his lifting
elbow.
EVEN St. Patrick’s Day
comes to an end, sooner or
later, and by the time the judges
had fixed rules and conditions
and they had got started on then-
shafts, there wasn’t much day-
light left. The crowd was keen,
but furious because nobody
could see exactly what was going
on down at the bottom of the
holes. One man went down to
see how Polish Joe was going,
and Joe threw him out of the
hole so high that the next thing
he knew he was hanging in the
air, holding on to the banister
fifteen tiers up in the grandstand.
One of the hairy men went down
to report on their competitor,
and there was a moment of
awed silence as first a leg and
then an arm came up in shovel-
fuls of earth. When his head shot
out of the mouth of the hole it
wore a grin of triumph, and his
pals felt that their man must be
going well.
There were some fights going
on, of course, but nothing was
finally settled about that contest.
Suddenly the north corner of the
grandstand sagged six feet, and
while the people in it were still
yelling Polish Joe came out of
his shaft shaking dirt out of his
hair. Everybody suddenly
realised that the tunnels had been
going under the stand, and that
Polish Joe’s had fallen in, and
there was a lot of excitement
while people were rescued from
the crumbling structure.
Polish Joe carried people down
fifteen at a time, seven and a
half under each arm, and every-
one was so busy that there was
no time to think about the hairy
man, still digging away in his
waistcoat, and taking drinks
from his waterbag now and
again. When the confusion was
over a lot of people thought he
had simply climbed out of his
hole, and started his 1914 T-
model Ford, and gone home to
Hannigan’s Halt. One nearly
human being was worried,
though, and asked one of the
hairy men.
“Aw, Tom’ll be going home
underground,” the hairy man
said tersely. “Real miner, that
bloke. He’ll tunnel his way back
to Hannigan’s Halt before th’
rest of us get home t’morrer
night. On’y a hunnerd miles, y’
know.”
St. Patrick’s Day being what
it is, there was a great deal of
confused thought, and even
larger quantities of no thought
at all, that evening. The most
noticeable fact was that nobody
worried less about Polish Joe’s
defeat than Joe, whose laughter
was just as loud and gay as it
was when he was a heavy loser
at the two-up school, and whose
moustachios bristled as challeng-
ingly as ever. But, as always
after St. Patrick’s Day and a con-
siderable number of other days,
the time of reckoning came next
morning.
LOTS of T-model Fords and
four-cylinder Essexes and
Dodges were still parked out-
side the recreation - ground,
and a low, jubilant roar
was coming from beneath
the grandstand. Yellow lights
were competing from the grand-
stand windows with the clear,
colorless glare of the sun, and
near-by residents reported to the
police that something untoward
was afoot. The constabulary
arrived with drawn pistols and
live ammunition, but not before
the news of strange doings had
reached the bars and bazaars,
and laymen were surging about
in multitudes with post-St.
Patrick’s Day hangovers and
feelings of spite towards any-
body who might prove worthy
of them. The best-humored man
about the place was Polish Joe,
and even he looked thoughtful
when an inexperienced cop told
him what had happened.
“That so-and-so from Han-
nigan’s Halt kept on tunnelling
after the grandstand fell in,” the
policeman said. “He kept
tunnelling until he was right
beneath the bar, and then he put
in a short rise and there he was.
All these other hairy old cows
from Hannigan’s got in along
with him, and they’ve been
there all night. Now we gotter
get them out.”
There was a great and joyous
roaring and thumping from the
bar under the grandstand, and
when the sergeant had a look
through the window the pane
shattered, and a full bottle of
Scotch whizzed past his ear.
Polish Joe reached out a big fist,
caught the bottle in full flight,
knocked the neck off it and
drank its contents reflectively.
The sergeant used language for
which he would have arrested
anybody else.
“You. want ’em out, boss?”
said Polish Joe with an eager
light in his eye. “All right. I’ll
pass ’em to you, a couple at a
time.”
Polish Joe put his shoulder
against the big, locked double-
door of the bar, and the whole
grandstand leaned over a foot,
and then two, and then three,
before all the hinges and the lock
gave at the same time. Then he
went in and rocked the place
about for a while, bouncing the
hairy men from one wall to the
other, and when he was good
and ready he started throwing
them out.
The first hairy man was lucky,
for Polish Joe threw him so far
that he landed right in his own
ancient utility in the road, and
he had the presence of mind to
start the engine straight away
and drive right back to Han-
nigan’s Halt, flat-out, at nearly
thirty miles an hour. After him
they came fast, in ones and twos,
flying through the air and being
gathered up out of the dust by
the policemen. When Polish Joe
came to a very old hairy man
he showed proper respect for
age, and bounced him neatly off
the sergeant’s soft paunch, so
that none of his poor, stringy
old limbs would get broken.
But he had no mercy on any
who were middle-aged or
younger, and the bigger they
were the further he threw them.
Last of all, he appeared in the
doorway with the hairy man
who had beaten him at bogging
and shaft-sinking, and had then
tunnelled his way into the bar.
The hairy man’s whiskers were
smoking and smouldering
slightly, because of his breath
passing through them, but there
was a dreamy, satisfied, don’t-
care-a-damn look in his eye, and
Polish Joe was carrying him with
both hands at arm’s-length over
his head.
“Wash worth it,” the hairy
man told the world. “Put me
down, big bloke. Can’t blurry-
well fight y’ when I’m shtuck
’way up here.”
A STRANGE look appeared
on Polish Joe’s face, almost
as though he were afraid that the
man who had beaten him twice
might do it a third time. He
placed the hairy man carefully
upright on the ground and held
him at arm’s-length. The hairy
man aimed blows from every
direction, but of course his arms
weren’t long enough for his fists
to reach Joe as long as Joe held
him. He cut holes in the air with
hands moving so fast that any-
thing that got into the vacuum
they created behind them was
dragged in their wake and flew
all over the place. “Let me go,
y’ great ape,” he bellowed. “I
can’t fight y’ frum away over
here, neither.”
Polish Joe held on tight, and
looked at the hairy man sadly
and said “You was a feller I
had a respect for yesterday, when
you beat me at them things I’m
best at, but I’m disappointed.”
“Wotcher mean?” snarled the
hairy man, pulling a punch so
suddenly that the cuff of his coat
shot down five inches past his
£Continued on page 30)
Poems from the Coalfields... IAN HEALY
GOEF
This is as far as man has crawled
In emulation of the worm.
This is the mine’s dead-end,
The gopher’s goef,
The cavern at the hidden boundary,
The boundary of the warren under town.
This is the goef, and here I am afraid:
There is an air of nothing
And of death in this great hole.
A yawn so blind and vast,
So vacuum’d and so full of fear
And, even though I do not hear
A sound, the creaks of terror.
This is like standing where
The sailor stood,
The pre-Columbus sailor, knowing
Any minute he was going
Over the flat world’s edge.
What if the roof should fall,
As fall it must,
The props compress and pulverise
Under the weight of all the upper earth?
What if the happening should be now?
Let out, let out:
Let every little worm get out of here;
Let every little man die in the sun.
AIR SHAFT
The heart's are pumping—feel!—the air
Flows down from such an open place,
Flows down the bratticed windpipes
To the face.
The air is flowing—sweet, its breath;
But flows it grimly, for the lungs
Are dusted with the particles of death.
FATE AND FUEL
My heart is like a lump of coal
Emerging from this gloomy hole.
For neither could be called a jewel:
The one is stone, the other fuel.
The one was gentle, pulsing for a day,
Then like the other roughly tossed away.
PIT DAM, SUNDAY
Down in the valley beyond the green hill.
On Sundays, the pit-top is silent and still.
And the lads of the village stalk down for
the kill
Of the plover that flock to the dam.
Sunny the mood of the valley this day
And peaceful the pool till the hunters at
play
And the snapping of rifles have frightened
away
All the plover that flock to the dam.
Deep is the water, the rushes grow tall,
And willows there weep and wild para-
keets call.
And I’m glad when the hunters bag
nothing at all
For the sake of the mood of the dam.
SUMMER THOUGHT
Hell is a little hotter than a mine—
But only just a little-—than a mine
When summer puffs its fiery breath below.
So men both young and virile and near-old
Expose half-naked bodies to the air.
Collecting dusty glitter in their hair.
Not every mine is hot, but this is one.
And sweating younger bodies, gold from
sun,
Shine as they work their shift away beside
The wiry, whiter bodies of the old:
The old whose weeks are dargs along the
way
To shuffle-footed queues on Pension Day.
Hell is a little hotter than within,
But not, one might suppose, so masculine.
ADVICE FROM A
NIGHTWATCHMAN
This is no place for lovers;
Find a park.
All I’m afraid this offers
Is the dark—
The dark reminder of a hooter’s blow,
The dark adventure of a day below,
The dark and silent outline of a wheel
Against the sky, the dark and clammy feel
Of what can happen down there
In the dark
To him who holds your hand; go
Find a park.


Now in Book Form
Illustrated by Norman
Lindsay with over 40
superb pen-drawings
Obtainable at bookshops, or
at “The Bulletin” offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or
Sydney. Or post-free from
The Book Department
“The Bulletin”
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
7/6
e Letters
Henning
77
Them lovely Ceothes
by NANCY KEESING
Although Bob had
driven with a fine disre-
gard for speed-limits, it
was nine-fifteen when
Harriet reached the hospital
gates and hurried along to her
office. A typewriter started
clacking officiously as she
reached the door.
“Good morning, Miss Anston.
Good morning, Helen,” she said.
Helen, the junior, looked up
as she came in and grinned
friendlily; “Hello, Miss Eld-
ridge.”
But Miss Anston made a great
show of finishing a row of typ-
ing and marking the place in her
shorthand notes. Then she
raised her head quite deliber-
ately, looked Harriet up and
down with a glance , that made
her meaning as plain as if she
had remarked “You do look
washed-out and your skirt is
crooked”; and said: “Good
morning, Miss Eldridge. Isn’t
it a lovely day, much too nice
to be working?”
“Yes, it’s beautiful.”
“I always enjoy the early
mornings at this time of the year
don’t you?” ’
I’m afraid I seldom see them.
Miss Anston. I’m not nearly as
good at getting to work on time
as you and Helen here. Now I
must rush and change. Helen
p ease get out William Smithers’s
file, will you? The Wollongong
Smithers, not the Mosman one.”
She shut the door into the inner
office behind her, slipped out of
Per frock and rummaged around
in a cupboard.
“ r^ n ? n ' Where the hell?
Oh, Helen! ” Miss Anston came
mto the room. “Helen—oh, it’s
you. Miss Anston; w0u1d...”
~ e^e . n t had to go upstairs for
the Smithers file. You lent it
to Doctor Gray.”
“So I did. I’d forgotten. I’m
sorry to bother you, Miss
Anston, but I’ve left the but-
tons for this uniform in my desk
drawer.” Working the buttons
into the clean uniform and tear-
ing at the stiffly-starched eyelet-
holes impatiently, she muttered
So the old cat did see us last
night. Well, it’s none of her
business.”
There was a knock at the door
—a soft, unimperative knock.
“Come in, Helen.”
“Doctor Gray wants you to
ring him, Miss Eldridge.”
‘Thanks. I’m sorry you had
to go upstairs for the file.”
Dr. Gray said in his flat,
anxious version of Bob’s voice,
Harriet, have you got every-
thing fixed for old Smithers?”
Yes, I’ll ring and check "with
the home, but I’m sure you’re
safe to order the ambulance for
twelve.”
“I’d better be, we need the
bed. What have you done to
old Pussyfoot? I rang down at
ten past nine or so and the acid
fairly bubbled out this end.”
“I’m sorry I wasn’t in.
Doctor.”
“If it’s to be like that, very
well, Miss Eldridge. Remind my
cousin Bob—Mr. MacLeod, I
mean—about the Halt sign at
our boundary-fence.”
Harriet laughed. Miss Anston
clicked the shift-key of her type-
writer down viciously and
rattled along at her top speed.
CT HE hadn’t really forgotten
about Mrs. Dumbleton,
Harriet told herself; just put
her out of her mind. It scarcely
seemed possible that
today could already be
Thursday, except that
last night was indisput-
ably Wednesday night.
As she rang the con-
valescent-home where
Smithers was going,
and waited for Matron
to come to the phone,
she felt suddenly cold
and incompetent. She
had intended to give some
thought to Mrs. Dumbleton, but
the file lay exactly where she had
put it on Monday, still unread.
She pulled it across the desk and
opened its folder.
“Good morning, God bless
you,” came the voice over the
phone. If she had only been
able to find somewhere not run
by a religious order for Smithers.
He’d hate the place, but it was
the only vacancy. Matron
seemed to resent the fact of her
ringing at all, “But, of course,
dear, we are expecting him to-
day. Yes, dear. And, dear, you
will make sure a full medical
report comes with him?”
She hung up. The Dumble-
ton file opened in nineteen
thirty-five. Thomas Dumbleton
was three weeks old at the time.
Mrs. Dumbleton had been re-
ferred to the office for help in
finding accommodation in Syd-
ney. It had been hard for who-
ever had written-up this inter-
view to make the mother under-
stand that the baby needed a
long course of treatment, and
that she should stay nearby to
feed it. N.B. Mrs. D. appears
feeble-minded, said the report,
although some of her confusion
may be due to the fact that she
is unused to the city.
Yellowed and torn on the
back of the file was a copy of
a letter which had been written
to the father explaining about
the baby’s twisted feet and the
reasons for his wife being asked
to remain in Sydney.
Then, after six months, she had
gone home. The records became
scrappy and incomplete, consist-
ing mostly of entries of letters;
Dere Miss to the young lady
I seen about my son Tom last
Febriry. Miss how is my baby
are his feet enny better is his
cold quit gone I seen a lady
near here that was a nurse and
she says Tom ull be OK when
lies seven is this rite thanking
you
Oblig
Mrs. Dumbleton
West Culathong
Via Galang Galang.
There were details of Mrs.
Dumbleton’s journeys to Sydney.
The passenger-car left West
Culathong once a week on
Tuesdays, which meant that she
caught her train at Galang
Galang on Tuesday evening,
arriving in Sydney too late on
a Wednesday to come to the hos-
pital. The overnight delay neces-
sitated special arrangements
being made for a Traveller’s
Aid representative to meet her
at the station. Mrs. Dumbleton,
over the years, had learned to
find her way from a hostel to
the hospital, hut the only time
she had tried to travel alone
from Central Station to what she
called “me lodging” she had be-
come hopelessly lost and was
nearly arrested by an ambitious
young constable who took her
puzzled progress down an un-
savory lane in Surry Hills to be
an indication of insobriety.
There was nothing in writing
about Mr. Dumbleton’s death,
which must have occurred about
nineteen forty-two ; in which
year his wife, having sought
help with the filling-in of forms
from the “Dere Miss” of the
day, received a widow’s pension.
Harriet looked up, frowning.
“Do you remember a Mrs.
Dumbleton, Miss Anston?”
“Very well. When I first came
here she was in and out all the
time. Miss Sheehan used to call
her ‘the incubus.’ ”
“Miss Sheehan must have
been very witty.”
L-J ARRIET regretted having
* *■ spoken, but now the words
were well out in the middle of
the room, coiling around. You
could almost smell them. Like
invisible smoke. Miss Anston
said nothing. Miss Sheehan,
Harriet’s predecessor, had en-
gaged her, and her ensuing wor-
ship of her employer was
legendary. After Miss Sheehan’s
breakdown in health, and since
Harriet took over the job last
year, everyone had assumed
Miss Anston would resign. How-
ever, Miss Anston had no in-
tention of resigning until she
qualified for her special leave,
due following seven years’ em-
ployment. Two years and four
months until Miss Anston’s
resignation.
“What did she—er, ‘the incu-
bus’—look like?”
“She is a very large woman,
Miss Eldridge. Very unprepos-
sessing.”
“I see. And Thomas?”
“Peculiar. Most peculiar.
Not only the feet, you know—
but, of course, that’s in the
report.”
“Yes.” It was all there:
psychologist’s consultations and
teachers’ remarks showing how
every year accentuated Tom
Dumbleton’s mental deficiency.
When he was ten years old some
forgotten Resident Medical
Officer suggested his placement
in a home for mental defectives.
His mother refused, and took
him home, writing a few weeks
lated:
Dere Miss tell doctor my Tom
may seem raty to you in Sydney
but he is fine he is not mentull
tell the doctor hes feet are good
he feeds the hens and oblig
Mrs. Dumbleton.
' “Oh, Miss Eldridge.”
“Yes, Doctor Gray?”
“Smithers asked if ybu could
spare a moment to see him be-
fore he leaves. Here’s the letter
to go with him.”
“Thanks very: much. Doctor
—do you, by any chance, recall
a patient, Thomas Dumbleton?
About two and a half years ago
since he was here.”
“When I was a student; yes,
M.D., vegetable with a big fat
mother. She used to hang
around like a dog. Why?”
“They’re coming in today. To
the Neurology Clinic. The
local police want him certified,
and the home-town medico has
passed the buck here.”
“I scarcely remember him,
really.”
“Ah, well. I’ll go up to see
Smithers.” Dr. Gray walked
beside her along the corridor
that led from the offices to the
ward. *
“Harriet. Will you excuse me
for impertinence, but just what
is biting your Miss Anston?
She’s been up to see her pal
Sister Cornwall over the tea-
cups.”
“So what!”
“So the old hens up in Out-
patients were talking about you
quite loud enough for the
patients to hear. I only mention
it for that reason.”
“I can’t see why a hard-graft-
ing welfare-officer has to be a
plaster-saint out of office
hours!”
“Oh, agreed.”
“Miss Anston happened to
pass by the Carrillon Club last
night as Bob and I were coming
out. I hoped she hadn’t seen
us.”
“Why?”
“I just did hope.”
“I suppose, for that matter,
she was late abroad herself.”
“She always is on Wednes-
days. She helps Miss Sheehan,
you know who I mean, with
some sort of church group at
Cremorne. She’s neurotic and
she resents me. That’s all.”
“I see. I’ll sprag old Corn-
wall when I get a chance.”
CT MITHERS was sitting beside
■' his bed, already dressed,
waiting for the ambulance. He
gave her a packet of cigarettes,
saying “And don’t tell me you
aren’t supposed to take them —
all that starch doesn’t fool me.”
Leaving the ward, she stopped
by Sister’s table. “I’ve a Tom
Dumbleton and his mother com-
ing to see me today, Sister.”
“After all these years! How is
he?”
“I’m afraid he’ll be certified
while he’s down this-time.”
“That’s unavoidable. But
Mrs. D., poor thing?”
“She’s worrying me. I was
reading the old reports. He
seems to have been such a—
such a centre for her life. I’m
not even sure if she understands
what’s happening.”
“I don’t think one can judge
people like that by the way you
or I would feel. Miss Eldridge.”
Young Helen was alone in the
office when Harriet returned,
excited because a visitor had
left a present of magazines.
“Such lovely ones, ‘Vogue’ and
‘Harper’s’ and ‘House and
Garden.’ ”
“That was nice. We’ll keep
the best ones here for people
waiting to read. What’s the
time, Helen?”
“Ten to twelve.”
“I’m going to have early
lunch. A Mrs. Dumbleton will
be coming. I want to see her
before she goes into the Clinic.”
THEY were waiting when she
came in after lunch. Mrs.
Dumbleton was indeed a huge
woman. Incredible that she
should be only thirty-seven
years old. She had coarse, yel-
low, cretinous features and stiff
short hair cut roughly at the
level of her ears, so that the
thickness of her neck was exag-
gerated. Her frock followed
every bulge and fold of her
figure—a rusty, black, woollen
dress that seemed to consist of
a folded piece of material
stitched up each selvedge with a
hole chopped out for the head ;
no belt. Made in the way chil-
dren sew t{ieir first dolls’ dresses.
Harriet, small, fair and con-
scious of the way in which the
unresisting stiffness of her white
uniform accentuated her soft,
graceful body, felt increasingly
hopeless as she stood beside this
woman ; as if, she thought, a
paper doll were asked to con-
verse with Epstein’s figure of
Night. She looked down at her
skirt and her eyes travelled
back up Mrs. Dumbleton’s bare
legs covered with blotches and
scratches, and overflowing a
pair of men’s shoes, shiny
brown.
“Good afternoon. I’m Miss
Eldridge.”
“Yes, miss.”
“You saw Miss Sheehan last
time you were here?”
“Yes, miss.”
“Will you come in?”
Tom followed his mother, a
tall, shambling boy with an
imbecile’s dull eyes, but, unlike
her, fresh-complexioned. Neither
Tom nor Mrs. Dumbleton
appeared to recognise Miss
Anston. Harriet asked if Mrs.
Dumbleton had a letter from
the doctor at Galang Galang.
“No, miss. He wrote you, he
said.”
“Yes, he did.”
“Miss, you want to see my
Tom’s feet?” On the point of
explaining that Tom’s feet were
not under consideration on this
occasion, Harriet heard the
almost imperceptible inflexion of
pride in the woman’s sing-song
voice.
“I noticed how well he
walked as he came in.”
“You want him to take his
boots off?”
“It’s a bit cold. How about
asking him to walk to the door
and let us see? Will you, Tom?”
Tom shuffled over to the door
and back with the ungainly gait
of an ape. Harriet continued her
interview. Mrs. Dumbleton was
launched on the slow, dreary
saga of Tom’s feet.
“It was in me ’usband’s
family. Cripples and drunks.
My gawd, miss, never you marry
a drunk.”
Harriet realised that Miss
Anston’s typewriter had stopped
suddenly. She wasn’t even pre-
tending to work. Best take no
notice.
“Shall we go in to see Doctor
now?” she asked,
J N the end it was all over very
* quickly. Tom was to be taken
to the Reception House immedi-
ately, so that his mother could
catch the night train, so that she
would not miss the Saturday
mail-truck from Galang Galang
to West Culathong.
Harriet rang through for a
taxi, feeling, although Mrs.
Dumbleton made no comment,
that she must explain, must
justify to herself this instrument
of speed and expense. “We have
a small emergency fund for this
sort of thing.”
She sent Miss Anston out of
the room, asking her to instruct
the taxi-driver to wait for Mrs.
Dumbleton at the Reception
House and to take her back to
Central Statibn. The file on
Thomas Dumbleton should close
with a record of final efficiency.
Then, opening the door for
Tom and his mother, the sense
of being overwhelmed by a
monumental dignity oppressed
her again.
“Good-bye, miss. Thanks for
the cab.”
Rattled, coatless, shapeless
and dumb through the cold
tableland night, she would be
returning to West Culathong
quite alone, and it was unlikely
that she would ever journey to
Sydney again.
“Mrs. Dumbleton, would you
like some magazines to look at
on the train?”
“If you have any with pic-
tures, miss.”
“Choose what you’d like from
this shelf. There are some with
nice pictures.”
Next to the magazines was a
pile of comic-papers given by a
child. Mrs. Dumbleton turned
these over, then picked up two
copies of “Vogue.”
“May I have these? These
ones with them lovely clothes.
Gee, miss, I do like to look at
lovely clothes. My gawd, never
you marry a drunk!”
“Goodbye, Mrs. Dumbleton.”
THE BRUMBIES
When the rich man yawns in bed,
Then is another epoch bred.
The bank clerk’s heart, pinched
by the till,
Will be breaking brumbies on
Capitol Hill.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL


UNIVERSAL TOOL
FOR EVERYONE
H
HANDYMAN
6
HOUSEWIFE
JUNIOR
FARMER
u
808
if
THE MULiTI-PU KPOSE STAPX.ING
TOOLi
Staples, drives nails, books, tacks.
Ideal for fencing, etc.
Tot every home, household, farm or
workshop “Bob” is indispensable.
gh
A-
•6uiij|Aj'aA9 siiedej „c|og n
"S
f
AMAZING VALUE!
Complete with 2 lock-
ing levers, magnet and
1000 assorted stainless
staples as pictured.
29'6
SEND ORDER TODAY TO
DOMEX TRADING CO.,
(Dept, 22H),
243 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Domex Trading: Co. (Dept. 228 C),
243 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Please send me one “Bob,” com-
plete in wooden box, tor which
1 enclose 29/6 (add postage 2/-).
NAME
ADDRESS
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of tbs School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHEB, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Public Notices
I, MAX KOSENSTRAUCH, known as MAX
ROSEN, of Rumanian nationality, born at
Yatradomel, resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 10 Hereward Street,
Maroubra, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, OSCAR ALPHONS GUTH, Stateless,
born at Vienna, Austria, resident more
than four years in Australia, now residing
at 8, “Fairhaven,” Palmerston Street,
Vaucluse, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO IVY ANDERSON (formerly IVY
MIDDLEDITCH) formerly of 86 White
Street Leichhardt in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
HENRY ANDERSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3193 of 1952 on the
ground that you have without just cause
or excuse wilfully deserted him and with-
out any such cause or excuse left him so
deserted during three years and upwards
and he is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by Bth De-
cember 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from D. H.
DWYER & CO., Solicitors, of 74 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA.
1952 No. 1100.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN EVA LAURA MAY MATHEWS
Petitioner and PAUL GEORGE MATHEWS
Respondent. To PAUL GEORGE
MATHEWS formerly of 17 Mitford
Street St. Kilda in the State of Victoria.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife EVA
LAURA MAY MATHEWS has commenced
a suit for Divorce against you on the
ground that without just cause or excuse
you wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left her continuously
so deserted during three years and up-
wards UNLESS you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office in the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the
17th day of October 1952 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may
ordered to pay costs If you wish to
defend this suit you must also file an
answer on or before the 27 th day of
October 1952.—SLATER & GORDON,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Boliciton
for the Petitioner.
aRCADIaN
by E.O.SCHLUNKE
EVERY time anything hap-
pened at the Faradays’
place it started with the
barking of the sheep-
dogs ; not that much happened
there to interest a bright young
woman on holidays—unless she
started it herself. Hence George
Faraday’s surprise to see Helen
jerk erect with all the appear-
ance of alarm before she ran to
the window to look out.
“It’s him,” she wailed in a
voice and manner that owed
much to the movies.
“It’s not Beresford, if that’s
who you mean,” said her sister,
betraying the edge of her grow-
ing conviction that three weeks
of Helen’s company was more
than she could endure. “The
dogs never bark at him, he’s
been coming here for years.”
“They’re barking at him now,”
Helen said, too agitated to gloat
over the rare opportunity of
correcting her sister.
She turned to her brother-in-
law with a pleading look in the
dark eyes whose main business
in life was to make men do what
she wanted. “Oh, George, stop
, him. Please stop him. Don’t let
him see me, for God’s sake!”
Faraday couldn’t help grin-
ning. “I thought you liked hav-
ing men visitors,” he said. But
he got up and looked out of the
window,
“It’s Beresford all right. And
it’s no wonder the dogs are bark-
ing at him. He looks as if he’s
in quite a state.”
He looked at Helen again, and
began to chuckle in a patronis-
ing, married-man’s manner.
“Stop laughing!” Helen
shrieked at him, and gave him
a violent push' towards the door.
“Go and stop him, or I’ll never
speak to you again, or to Viola
either.”
Good-humoredly George went
out to see his friend. Helen
turned to meet her sister’s eyes.
Mrs. Faraday was looking as if
she was expecting to hear some-
thing vastly interesting, and
couldn’t hide her pleasure in it,
even if it was her own flesh that
was going to be lacerated.
“This is a bit different from
the other visits,” she said archly.
~T HE first time Helen saw
* Beresford was when she
came tiptoeing to the front door
to peer over her sister’s shoulder.
A suntanned, healthy-looking
man in shorts and open shirt
was there, with an Army-style
pack on his back and an impro-
vised walking-stick in his hand.
He was a bit older than she
would have hoped for, and he
was behaving in a most peculiar
manner.
Helen had just missed hearing
him telling Mrs. Faraday that
the fine weather had affected him
so lyrically that “all the way
over I had that theme from
Beethoven’s* ‘Pastoral Sym-
phony’ running through my
head; you know how it goes”
—and there he was singing it in
an unexpectedly high key: “Dah
dee, dee dah dee, dee dah dee
deed le dee.”
He stopped abruptly when he
caught sight of Helen, and all
the lyricism vanished from his
face, but she couldn’t tell
whether he was embarrassed or
annoyed. He barely acknow-
ledged the introduction, seeming
to be much more interested in
getting out of his pack, which
made quite a bump when he
lowered it on to the table,
though he handled it with loving
care.
“My!” exclaimed Helen, de-
termined not to be disregarded.
“Did you carry that over in this
heat? I’d die.”
Beresford gave her a cursory
glance, as if he was thinking that
it was a pity she didn’t. Her
eyes fastened with feminine
curiosity on the pack, and
though Beresford was watching
apprehensively, she took it by
the straps and attempted to lift
it.
“My goodness!” she ex-
claimed, with flapperish bright-
ness. “What’s in it? Bricks?”
Beresford took it from her to
undo the straps, with Helen
hanging over it.
“Gramophone records! What
a lot of them! Have you got
any of the latest?”
Beresford addressed her di-
rectly for the first time; “Pur-
cell was born some mere fifty
years after the death of Queen
Elizabeth, if you know who she
was, Tschaikovsky might suit
you better; he died in 1893.”
He picked up his records, made
a little gesture, said, “I suppose
George is in his den,” and off
he went.
“Isn’t he awful?" Helen said
to her sister, making that one
commonplace adjective carry the
completes! condemnation of
Beresford and her intense dis-
appointment.
“Oh, he’s not such a bad
fellow when you get used to
him,” said Mrs. Faraday.
Helen listened briefly to the
music that was coming from
George’s den, and pulled a face
which consigned Beresford and
everything pertaining to him to
everlasting perdition.
THE music kept up for hours,
the brief intervals between
records filled in by Beresford’s
voice, talking in high, ecstatic
enthusiasm. Then they all had
afternoon-tea together. Beres-
ford elected to do most of the
talking, as if he considered it
necessary to answer the eloquent
criticism in Helen’s eyes. He
lay back in his armchair, con-
suming Mrs. Faraday’s excellent
home-made cake and smiling
blissfully.
“When I wake up in the morn-
ing I open all the louvres in my
bedroom. (All my east wall is
louvred)” he interplated for
Helen’s information. “I inhale
the lovely morning air, then I
think to myself, Shall I get up,
or shall I stay in bed? I might
pick up a book from my bedside
table. Generally I get up, be-
cause the morning is the best
time of the day. I stroll out to
look for my cow.”
“But,” Helen interrupted,
“don’t you have to get up each
morning to milk your cow?”
Beresford continued as soon
as she had stopped, but he
answered her question because
it was his pleasure to do so.
“My cow and I understand
one another. She is indulgent
towards me if the weather is
unpropitious or if I neglect her
for any other reason. She has
soft valves in her teats, and she
just lets her milk flow away.
Similarly, I am indulgent to-
wards her when she strays into
my neighbor’s paddock, where
there is a very handsome and
masterful red bull. I live on
condensed-milk until it pleases
her to return.
“While I milk, I think over
what I will have for breakfast.
Perhaps an omelette. While I
was in the Middle East I made
a study of the omelettes of all
nations, and I can make them
all—better than they are made
in their own countries. Coffee
made with fresh, warm milk.
I always time my breakfast so
that I can listen to the A.B.C.’s
morning session of orchestral
music. An hour passes very
pleasantly. Before I do my
dishes I bake a cake so that I’ll
have only one wash-up.”
Here, again, Helen, who had
been listening with interest, de-
spite herself, had to interrupt:
“But do you bake cakes ?”
Beresford shrugged away the
question, but Mrs. Faraday
answered for him.
“He bakes the most marvel-
lous cakes. I’m almost ashamed
to put mine before him.”
Beresford continued: “By the
time I have cleared the kitchen
it is eleven o’clock. Morning-
tea and the symphony hour on
the radio, I brew my tea accord-
ing to the rules of a tea-taster
I met in India. I let it stand
while a twelve-inch record plays.
It is always perfect.
“Then I go out to look at my
sheep, taking my faithful hound,
who has been waiting patiently
on my doorstep. I slip a volume
of poetry into my pocket —
Shelley or Keats, perhaps—in
case my ewes are down beside
the creek, where I can never
resist the temptation to lie in
the clover under the shadow of
my biggest river-gum. There I
may lie until the afternoon,
while the bees buzz in the clover-
flowers and the birds are sing-
ing, quarrelling or making love
in the various parts of my wide-
spreading tree. I let my soul
join in the harmony of sun and
earth, of clouds and trees.
Sometimes I look up from my
book, half expecting to see a
nymph or a naiad among the
bushes along the creek.”
He gave a slightly self-con-
scious laugh, and said quickly,
“Sometimes I just go to sleep,
and when I wake it is late after-
noon, and time to go home to
prepare my dinner. At night I
leave Arcadia and plunge into
the sophisticated world. I read
all the intellectual moderns, even
Jean Paul Sartre with his aberra-
tions ; anything that is new or
bright or clever. Anything, in
fact, except the callow Australian
writers.
“Before I go to bed I play
some of my records. First, com-
posers like Hindemith and
Stravinsky, to harmonise with
the books I’ve been reading.
Then I stalk back through the
centuries, through the might of
Beethoven, the grace of Mozart,
the mellowness of Handel, the
serenity of Bach to the original
purity of Corelli, which puts me
in the mood for quiet sleep. My
days are full and satisfactory;
I have the treasures of all the
world at my disposal. I ask for
nothing more.”
HELEN looked at him, full
of antagonism. “That’s all
right while you are young and
healthy. But what if you got
suddenly ill while you were
alone?”
Beresford smiled at her, full
of assurance of the most mad-
dening kind. “I don’t get sick,”
he said dogmatically. “When I
was in the Army they wanted
to give me injections against all
the diseases under the sun, but
I told them it would be only
wasting their time and mine. In
Egypt I did all the things the
M.O. told us not to do. I
drank water from the wells in
Arab villages; I ate the sweet-
meats the Wogs sold in the
streets ; I went swimming in the
canals, and I never had a day
off duty. The old M.O. we had
in Cairo said he’d like to
inoculate all the Army with my
blood.”
“Well, there are some things
you’re missing,” Helen persisted,
and as she reached for a cigar-
ette it should have been plain
enough to Beresford what she
meant.
But he asked sharply, “What,
for instance?” and he kept a
challenging eye on her as if
daring her to mention anything
fatuous. But Faraday came to
her assistance.
“There are certain advan-
tages,” he said, “in having a
woman about the place.”
Beresford made a grimace.
“Well, if I could get one who’d
be content to change my records
for me ; and get up in the morn-
ings when I felt like lying in
bed. And if I were sure she
could cook as well as I can;
and never make a fuss about
anything or want me to change
my mode of living. But I’m sure
that such a perfect creature
doesn’t exist.”
He talked for a long time, but
he kept up the appearance of
ignoring Helen’s presence. Even
when, just before he left, he
asked a question about her, he
addressed it to George.
“How long is your visitor
staying?”
“All next week.”
“Then I won’t come over
next week,” he said, taking an
apparent pleasure in seeing
Helen wince at the insult. “You
can come to see me, George, and
I’ll come over again the follow-
ing week.”
And he set off happily for his
long walk home in the dark.
(Continued on page 30)


we vesmmg *
m
#
=8
TOOV-
©
Stß>l\ c
I
m
K <.
r v
Ai
W "V—v
- J
"f^t?
V6* ■•’.Ed » W -?fl> I Tt>s' . , '*Agf - 1 - . -M' ■' i • . _y -—y
__-SP “"V’*’''
-4
fAfs/ZiSKFa^x-
TOOTH’S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Go. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K 8.108.18
Australian Historical Sketches
THE Lady Juliana 's CARGO
By M. H. ELLIS
Botany bay in the
“earlies” was as isolated
as the South Pole. The
First Fleet party had no
communication, no letters, no
newspapers, no fresh rations
from England between the time
they left Portsmouth on May 13,
1787, and June, 1790.
Even eight years later there
was once a break of a full
year in home news. And when a
ship did come in it brought fresh
problems, fresh hungry mouths,
because there also came in it a
fresh batch of convicts, usually
more dangerous and uncon-
trollable than the last.
When Phillip found the Botany
Bay region uninhabitable for
roughly 1000 people he was
forced to choose a new spot on
which to settle as quickly as
possible. His charges had been
so long in the ships that there
was no knowing what might
happen if they remained longer.
He picked Sydney Cove because
it had a sheltered anchorage,
because deep water came almost
up to its shores, and because it
had a freshwater stream running
into it.
There was little flat land round
it the two lines of hill which
hemmed in the valley down
which the stream ran were
rugged and rocky, though there
were wide sand-flats at the
mouth (now covered and filled
in by Circular Quay), and some
relatively open land on the east
side (where Macquarie-place
now is). There probably the first
landings were made. There the
flagstaff was put up and a
parade-ground cleared.
On the side of the eastern hill,
56ft. above the
Governor’s hut was built—three
rooms, prefabricated. The hos-
pital was set-up on the western
side of the cove (south of where
Argyle-street is now cut
through); south of it, store-
houses.
Ground was marked out for a
principal street, and dwellings
were hastily erected. Officers
had two-roomed “houses” of
wattle-and-daub, thatched with
cabbagetree - palm. Convicts
were housed in huts of cabbage-
tree-leaf built round four posts.
All timber was green, so that
sometimes buildings soon
assumed queer shapes. Except
for Government House, none
boasted any glass. Windows
were made with lattice-twig
shutters, which scarcely kept out
the southerlies.
Complete State socialism, of
course, prevailed. Everybody
was fed from Government
rations, which varied with the
times.' In theory each male in
the community had seven pounds
of beef or four pounds of pork
a week, seven pounds of bread,
a little tea, peas and sugar,
women a little less. When, three
or four years afterwards, there
was complaint about the soldiers’
rations the Governor could say
tartly that he thought there was
no ground for whining, since he
saw the same food at his own
table every day.
In practice the ration dwindled
periodically. It started at the
official rate when ships came in.
Then it gradually fell away to
half, even to a third, before the
next ships arrived.
Even when there was a full
supply the quantities were
delusive. For the pork had been
years in the cask and boiled away
to a “putrid morsel,” and the
beef was often as much as
60 per cent, bone and gristle.
Fresh beef was eaten in the
settlement only thrice in five
years and then only by a few.
The First Fleet came theoreti-
cally with two-years’ rations, but
it had been anticipated that a
great deal of the food needed
would be produced on the spot.
Ground was given at once to
officers to start their own
gardens, but as often as not they
found themselves on solid
Sydney sandstone within the first
three or four inches. There was
no water-supply for gardens.
There was no animal manure.
And most of the convicts were
certainly no gardeners.
The Government in February,
1788, began to till the ground in
one of the few places in which
there was alluvial soil —on a
nine-acre plot which ran along
the east of the stream, parts' of
which can still be seen in Sydney
Botanical Gardens. Mr. James
Ruse has always claimed—or at
least the inscription on his tomb-
stone has—to have “sown the
first grain,” but if he did it must
have been under the supervision
of Henry Dodd, Phillip’s servant,
the only free man with any
knowledge of agriculture in
the territory. This effort was a
failure. The colony grew
nothing until the settlement of
Parramatta took place, and then
not much for a long time.
It was soon clear that unless
something was done, or fresh
ships arrived, the new colony
would starve. Phillip hastened
to get rid of some of the popula-
tion by sending it off to Norfolk
Island, which had a reputation
for fertility. He sent, as the first
year ran towards its close, the
Sirius, under command of
Captain Hunter, to the Cape of
Good Hope for provisions, but
one of the disadvantages of sail
was that it was not possible to
steer a straight course to a point,
turn round and steer a straight
cours; back. It was needful to
follow the winds. Thus Hunter,
sailing in his little Sixth-rate to
the Cape, had circumnavigated
the globe by the time he returned
to Port Jackson.
The same happened when the
little Supply, 200 tons, was sent
later to Batavia. To get there
and avoid reefs and shoals and’
take advantage of' the winds she
must beat out east of the
Moluccas, and, on leaving her
destination, she must go round
Western Australia and the south
of the continent, thus being the
first to circumnavigate Australia.
As the months went by and
anxiety grew attempts were
made to add to the supplies
locally, but these became more
and more a failure. Few of the
criminals knew what work
meant. Fewer knew anything of
the land. Game, on that rocky
coast, was scarce. The forests,
which had never heard the ring
of an axe, stretched westward
into the illimitable distance. On
the east 7000 miles of Pacific
Ocean helped to imprison the
exiles in their “solitary waste.”
Hunger presently reduced the
ability to work of even the
willing. The net with which
they hauled in a few fish was
allowed to slip back into the
sea. The kangaroo they were
supposed to shoot escaped. The
scraggy gardens went completely
unfilled. Government labor by
April, 1790, when the settlement
received its final blow in news of
the wreck of the Sirius at Nor-
folk Island, had been reduced to
three hours a day, because the
emaciated population could stand
no more.
That winter feet were bare and
chilblained. The Marines “had
not a shoe and mounted guard
barefoot. Pride, pomp and
circumstance of glorious war
were at an end.” According to
one authority, the ladies of the
settlement were “totally unpro-
vided with clothes,” but nobody
seems to have noticed it in the
process of battling with hunger.
Two and a half pounds of flour,
two pounds of shrivelled pork,
“barely affording three or four
morsels,” a pint of peas or a
pound of rice a week scarcely
filled the stomach. Loudly would
the sybarite boast who had
“dined most heartily the other
day on a fine dog,”
Rats were fat and not scorned,
kangaroo-rat voted “almost as
good as mutton.” Seven officers
who dined off the side-bone of
an emu were the envy of the
settlement for days. But all
craved for sugar to take with the
“sweet tea” which grew in pro-
fusion on the rocks, and for salt
to savor the native spinach,
which the women collected to
ward off scurvy.
+ +
The Home Government was
not to blame. It had sent out
the fine new storeship Guardian
under command of “the gallant
good Riou,” but she had been
disabled in the roaring ’forties
with her cattle and her sheep,
her plant-garden put together by
Sir Joseph Banks, her flour and
her luxuries. Another ship took
months longer than expected to
reach port. But the colonists
knew nothing of this as they
shivered in the June wind, utterly
despondent, feeling that they had
been completely abandoned.
It was June 3, the eve of King’s
Birthday, a cold, bitter tempes-
tuous day. Eyes cast towards the
signal-mast at South Head, where
Lieutenant Southwell grumbled
through his empty days, revealed
no sign of hope. The patrol
which had been wont to make its
daily pilgrimage to Botany Bay,
lest vessels should call there, had
long ago abandoned its vigil.
There was nothing about the day
different from any other except
that the rations had dwindled a
little more and that it was get-
ting colder.
Captain Tench, of the
Marines, wrapping himself in his
rags and contemplating his
maggoty pork and weevils with
even more distaste than usual,
was settling down towards sun-
down for another long night of
misery. Suddenly he heard a
joyful hubbub without.
He rushed into the clearing
from which the confused clamor
of many voices rose. And there
he saw an extraordinary sight.
Soldiers on guard danced on
their bare chilblained feet.
Women hugged their children
and wept together for joy. Staid
officers forgot their dignity and
yelled with the rest. And
through all the clamor and the
tears there was threaded a single
necklace of words: “The flag’s
up! The flag’s up!”
Captain Tench waited not a
moment. His salt-pork morsels
rattling in his hollow inside, he
scrambled up the nearest hill,
his spyglass in his hand. And
there, sure enough, he saw the flag
up on the South Head, and
coming in on the rainy swell a
large ship, her number up, her
colors flying. He wrung a mess-
mate’s hand, “with eyes and
heart overflowing.”
Down the hill went Captain
Tench like a hare, just in time to
jump into a boat which was get-
ting out its oars amid a hubbub
of rejoicing at the wharf —even
the Governor was there to go
with them part of the way down
harbor.
They took their seats. The
oars rattled into the rowlocks.
“Give way there! Pull, boys,
she’s from old England! Hurrah
for a bellyful! ”
The oars bent as they made
their way round Bradley’s Head,
to see a large vessel, sea-battered,
swaying into the harbor, the
blessed word “London” in gold
upon her stern, her ensign flutter-
ing as she gingerly came up past
the Sow and Pigs.
They were up her sides like
squirrels on the ladder thrown
them. They stood bewildered for
a moment at their first sight of
the outside world for three years.
News burst upon them “like
meridian splendor on a blind
man.”
They learnt that she was the
Lady Juliana, eleven months out
from the Thames. “Letters!
letters! ” was the cry. They were
produced and “torn open in
trembling agitation,” Newspapers
were in their hands for the first
time for years. They heard of
the King’s illness. They heard
for the first time of the revolu-
tion in France. They shook their
heads over strange historic
names, as foreign-sounding as
those in Gulliver.
Tenderly they helped to steer
this precious argosy into the safe
haven of Spring Cove, their
minds unconsciously telling them
that here was security, here was
assurance that they were not,
after all, forgotten men. They
saw, guaranteed by what must
be hidden in the holds, fat
months ahead in which there
would be no stint. Their troubles
were over.
And then, perhaps, it occurred
to somebody to see exactly what
this fabulous vessel with her
gold name and her red, white
and blue ensigns and her white
sails and her sanded decks had
brought them.
“Captain? What, sir, is your
main cargo?”
And to this the captain
replied:
“Why, sir, two-hundred-and-
twenty-five female convicts.”
The officers of New South
Wales were about as loyal a lot
of subjects as it would have been
possible to encounter anywhere.
But it was not surprising that
next morning, as they embarked
on the long series of loyal toasts
which marked his Gracious
Majesty’s natal day, one of them
should have muttered into his
glass something about “so
unnecessary and unprofitable a
cargo.”


SPORTING NOTIONS
Derby Day at Randwick is
round once again, and this
Saturday’s A.J.C. classic is
brimful of interest and keen
anticipation, despite the fact that
the field, probably big, is made
up mostly of three-year-olds of
modest performance. There is
no outstanding colt, which ac-
counts for N.S.W. opposition
from three States. But the main
attraction, so far as owners are
concerned, is the £lO,OOO stake.
Big prizes will always reward
race clubs for their enterprise,
and the A.J.C. should have near-
record attendances at the four
days of the meeting.
• • • •
The Epsom is the handicap
highlight of the first day of the
carnival, on which the Breeders’
Plate and the Colin Stephen
Stakes also will be staged. This
year’s mile may go to Oversight
or Tossing, while Hydrogen and
Dalray hold strong claims in the
Metropolitan.
• • • •
The Derby looks as open as
Sydney Heads, but Idlewild has
a stout pedigree, and he or Grey
Phantom may win the classic.
A grey winner of the Blue
Riband would at least be an
unusual happening, but greys
Trizami (1951) and Mayfowl
(1943) ran thirds.
• • • •
Horses beaten into minor
places immediately prior to the
Derby have come out and won
the classic, and if a surprise is
in store then Adelaide’s Welloch
might bring it about. Close
observers of Welloch’s brilliant
third to Golden Brew at Rose-
hill, in the fastest mile-and-a-
quarter (2.31) ever run at the
suburban track, regarded the
effort as full of merit. His
apprentice jockey, D. Cowie,
carried 41b. overweight, and the
colt came from second-last at
the five furlongs. Welloch is a
New Zealand-bred colt by Vaga-
bond’s sire Balloch (imp.), from
Chorine by Actor (imp.), from
None So Gay (imp.) by Friar
Marcus. With such a staying
background he should get the
Derby mile-and-a-half without
difficulty. His brother Quiloch
won races in Adelaide.
Apprentices N. Munsie, R.
Faux and J. Lavazzaro had wins
at Rosehill. It’s good to see these
up-and-coming youngsters dis-
playing skill and quick thinking
in races. Claiming of a 71b.
allowance was mainly respon-
sible for the wins by Top Level
(Munsie) and Golden Brew
(Lavazzaro). The race won by
Faux was restricted to appren-
tices who had not ridden 10
winners, and there were no allow-
ances. Lavazzaro was inclined
to ease his mount down right
near the post with the race in
his keeping, but he will be well
advised not to make a habit of
the practice. It’s always better
to ride the mount out, not take
risks in a close finish. Experi-
enced horsemen have lost races
through a brief moment of over-
confidence in the final few yards.
Not all the best judges sit
round the ring at the yearling
sales in the various States. The
experts pick numerous losers,
and a few that turn out real duds
mightn’t even run in a race.
They frequently bypass a colt
that eventually develops good
winning form. For example,
Top Level, who opened his win-
ning account at Rosehill, raised
no enthusiasm when paraded as
a yearling at Randwick last year,
and was passed-in at a mere 375
guineas, Aluinn Stud declining
the offer. Now raced by Mrs.
M, Hewson and Frank Packer,
Top Level should win in much
better company. The Derby
might be a bit rich for the colt,
but there’ll be other chances if
he is not up to classic standard.
He’s Genetout (Fr.) from
Mastery by Piccadilly (imp.) and
is from the family which pro-
duced Liberal (V.R.C. Derby)
and Solution (A.J.C. Metrop.).
Likely to pilot Gallant Archer,
Darby Munro holds a formidable
record in the A.J.C. Derby. Now
rising 40, Darb is still riding in
brilliant form and has some
choice mounts over the spring
round, one being Hydrogen in
the w.f.a. contests and the Met-
ropolitan. He will also be on
Oversight in the Epsom. He has
ridden five Derby winners ; one,
Allunga (1935), running a dead-
heat. His oilier winners were
Hall Mark (1933), Nuffield
(1938), Reading (1939) and Main
Topic (1942). Main Topic ran
the mile-and-a-half in 2.3 U.
Phar Lap (1929) holds the time
record, 2.31 L It isn’t likely the
winner of this Saturday’s Blue
Riband will top that time.
Back the four-year-olds in big
races and make money! That’s
the popular idea, but, of course,
one has to pick the right one of
that age-group. Looking over
results of noted Australian
handicaps it is found that the
four-year-olds have enjoyed a
most successful innings. Since
the A.J.C. Epsom was first staged
in 1865 the four-year-olds have
won 38 times and they easily
lead the field. Five-year-olds
have had 29 successes.
• • • •
In the Metropolitan 37 four-
year-olds have won since 1866,
first year of the series. High
Law and Bronze Peak have been
best backed of that age-group
for this year’s Epsom, while
Prelate, Bankbrook and Over-
sight are strong five-year-old
contenders. Prominent four-year-
olds in the Metrop. are Dalray
and Hydrogen, while five-year-
olds well-thought-of include
Davey Jones, Jan and Aristocrat.
• * • i
Most high-priced yearlings
bring desired results and reward
fearless bidders, which is good
for the thoroughbred industry
and for racing generally. Top-
priced youngsters were among
the beaten two-year-olds at the
Randwick barrier trials, but in
most instances they looked
above themselves in condition.
Naval Victory, a 4000-guineas
purchase in N.Z., ran fourth in
his heat, while Rangitoto, also
bred in the Dominion, ran un-
placed in his heat. Nargoon, a
6500-guineas buy, was another
of the costly colts to miss a
place, but all three may not be
long out of the headlines. They
improved at Rosebery trials.
Nargoon won his heat, while
Naval Victory and Rangitoto
both ran second. Nargoon, a
half-brother to Swan River, is
by Delville Wood (imp.) from
Blackbird, by Magpie (imp.).
■ i ■ i
Racegoers in coming weeks on
main courses in Australia will
find some fancy titles for young
horses, some well chosen, others
poor examples of nomenclature.
One owner has selected Enibrac
(Carbine backwards) for his colt
by Wayside Inn (imp.) from
Nyastra. There was another
Enibrac a few years ago, but he
didn’t set the turf on fire so far
as stakemoney was concerned.
Other names which appear to
be on the “heavy” side include:
Talawudga, Estaca, Mighty
Undertow, Man in the Moon,
Ragewind, Yon Hill, Yungfrau,
Capitol Bruge, Tonitout. Well-
chosen titles include: Melody
Gem (Triple Bar (imp.)—Lute-
player), Driftwood (Delville
Wood (imp.)—Current), Moat
(Stockade (imp.)—Tidal), Linger
(Wayside Inn (imp.)—Radio
Queen), Bonaparte (Nice Day
(imp.)—Red Dawn), King’s
Bounty (Sun King (imp.)—Privi-
lege) and Palisade (Stockade
(imp.)—High Stakes).
Sydney’s leading horseman,
Neville Sellwood, who won the
Metrop. last spring on Delta,
has the mount on his stablemate
Davey Jones in this year’s holi-
day race over the 13 furlongs.
Davey Jones is a popular fancy.
Sellwood’s only success in the
Epsom was on 50-to-l Titanic in
1945. He rides Tossing this
Saturday, and many thousands
of pounds have been invested on
his mounts for the double. Sell-
wood has yet to win an A.J.C.
Derby. Deep River gives him
his chance this time.
Perth jockey Peter Knuckey
has travelled thousands of miles
in the past few months, but in
winning races he’s experienced a
lean time. Peter was in Sydney
over last weekend, but intends
to return to his home town soon,
and may remain thereabout for
some time. He recently went
back to Kalgoorlie, then to
Perth, from which city he
travelled to Singapore. He
YOU'LL PAY FOR THIS!
[Actually, this is a faithful depiction of an authentic sporting
event —Stan McCabe holed out in one at the third on Jim
Ferrier’s early stamping-ground. Manly (Sydney). Victim,
Lindsay Hassett.]
stayed up that way for three
weeks, rode at one meeting and
piloted one winner, but he
couldn’t get out of Singapore
quickly enough. The climate
thinned him to 6.9.
• • • i
Now riding at peak of his
form, Sydney jockey A. G.
Mulley has ridden winners in
various parts of the world, but
major handicaps in Australia
have so far eluded him. He’s
hoping to change all that in the
spring round. He rides High
Law in the Epsom, and most
likely Great World or Aristocrat
in the Metrop.
Mulley hit the headlines when
Bernborough, now a successful
sire in the U.S., was carrying all
before him until he missed a
place in the 1946 Caulfield Cup,
in which he was called on to
carry the grandstand (10.10), and
finished fifth. On opening day
of that meeting Bernborough
won the Caulfield Stakes at
eights-on, but rank outsider
Royal Gem won the Cup at 33’s.
That hard Cup run finished
Bernborough as a racing
proposition. He had one more
outing, but broke down in the
V.R.C. Mackinnon Stakes, for
which he started at fours-on.
Others have suffered a similar
fate at the end of a grand turf
career. There’s such a thing as
over-racing, especially under big
weights. However, Bern-
bordugh’s name is being carried
on with success in his new
home.
Mrs. Frank Dalton, wife of a
prominent Randwick trainer,
will this season race Magneto,
a Golden Sovereign (imp.) filly
from Power Point by Melfort
(imp.), and tracing back to
Grafton (imp.). A half-sister to
Gay Spark and Two Sparks,
Magneto is closely related to
Lady Constance, a smart winner
at Randwick some seasons back.
Family lines include three Mel-
bourne Cup winners. Lord
Cardigan, Lord Nolan and Rain-
bird.
Reason so few three-year-olds
win the Epsom is because the
best of that age-group contest
the Derby, run on the same day.
Poor winning record of the
three-year-olds in this mile—
three, and one of them a dead-
heat, in 86 years —won’t scare
backers of brilliant French Echo
(7.7), best of the three-year-olds
engaged this Saturday at Rand-
wick and rated such by the
handicapper. However, he must
do a “ton” better than at Rose-
hill. Dare Devil (1892) was the
last winning three-year-old;
Oversight ran second to Achilles
two years back. The three-year-
olds naturally have a more con-
vincing record in the Doncaster,
run in the autumn. Three of
them have won that mile in the
last seven years.
There’ll be no hot favorite for
this year’s A.J.C. Derby, as was
the case last spring when Hydro-
gen (9-to-4 on) ran a poor race,
finishing fifth. Channel Rise
won at 25 to 1, but his party has
been on lean rations since. This
season’s lot are* fairly even.
Rosehill Guineas running points
to Idlewild and Silver Phantom
as two strong contenders, but
with horses from four States
likely to be in the line-up, and
a big field, anything is likely to
happen,
i • • •
Noted Derby winners at “buy-
money” prices indude Heroic
(1924), Manfred (1925), Ammon
Ra (1931) and Nuffield (1938).
Phar Lap started 5-to-4 against
in 1929 and gave Jim Pike an
armchair ride.
* * * *
Go in for that fearful sport
boat-pulling when you’re young
and damage the old ticker for
life, etc., etc., etc. Over the
weekend George Rogers won
the world’s most severe sculling
event, Fremantle to Perth, 11£
miles. George is 72.
* * * *
They piled into M.C.G. at
500 a minute for the V.F.L.
grand final on Saturday, and
started to leave early, for Col-
lingwood was beaten in the third
quarter, and Geelong gathered
the 1952 pennant by 13.8 to 5.10,
Easily the fastest and cleverest
team of the Melbourne football
competition this year, Geelong
ran through the 11 opposing
teams to the minor premiership
and then practically cantered in.
This is the little city’s second
premiership in succession, and
on Saturday night on Corio Bay
the drinks were on the house.
Minyip, a wheat village of
less than 1000 people, won this
year’s Wimmera (Vic.) football
premiership against towns four
times its size. The locals made
the Saturday night a fiesta, with
turkey-and-ham in the village
hall, followed by ham-and-
turkey, etc., till 1 a.m. The final
was played at Horsham (normal
pop. 6300), and 11,000 watched
Minyip win by 10 points. The
gate broke all records. Umpire
reported alive and well.
Cables gave out last week the
remarkable news that the touring
Rugby Leaguers were at odds-
on for the first Test v, England
this coming Saturday. These are
the chaps who took a belting
from the Maorilanders before
they departed, and League’s
scarcely the leading footy game
across the Tasman. Arthur
Glues, who was with the last
Kangaroo team, was reported as
tipping the Australians to win
by 20 points. Which would
make one wonder what on earth
has happened to England, or
what has happened to Clues.
Anyway, the ink was still wet
on the foregoing intelligence
when St. Helen’s up and
slaughtered the ’Roos, 26-8, piling
on 21 of the points in the first
half. Of course in other teams in
England there are about enough
Australian expatriates to make a
team on their own.
* * * *
The lively afternoon’s willow-
wielding noted here last week
was no harbinger of Sydney
grade cricket, which started last
Saturday with all the joyous
abandon of a wet Sunday. Jim
Burke’s 57 not out was best by
a Test man. There was one lone
century, 127 by Amson (Banks-
town). Best bowling was 17-
year-old Manlyite Philpott’s 6-33.
English critics are sure England
will recover the Ashes next year
—in fact, Hutton reckons they
won’t lose a Test. Many here
would like to see it come off.
Whether Australia will tackle
them with the old brigade or a
younger side is up to the new
selection trio. They’ll stop a
ton of brickbats whichever way
they pick.
• • • •
The board proposes to alter
the Laws of Cricket relating to
“bumpers” by omitting “stand-
ing clear of his wicket” from the
clause describing as “unfair”
cricket “the persistent and sys-
tematic bowling of fast short-
pitched balls at the batsman
standing clear of his Wicket.”
The South Africans have agreed
to this for their tour of Aus-
tralia, English critics are sug-
gesting that the discovery of
Trueman has something to do
with the move.
For this season’s Shield games
the new ball can be taken at 200
runs or after 60 overs. This is
preferable to the experiment of
allowing it at 40 overs, which
almost eliminated the spin-
bowler from first-class cricket.
Ring and McCool were bowled
hardly at all in match-play on
the 1948 tour of England.
* * ♦ *
Since Bob Fitzsimmons
kayoed Jim Corbett at Carson
City, Nevada, on March 17,
1897, “Ruby Robert,” then 35,
has reigned as the oldest boxer
ever to become world heavy-
weight champion, but Jersey Joe
Walcott was when he won
that title from Ezzard Charles
in Pittsburgh, Pa., on July 19,
1951, and 38 and a bit more
when Rocky Marciano took it
from him at Philadelphia last
week. Joe, reputed to have been
an active boxer for 28 years,
owns to Arnold Raymond
Cream as his real name, which
is no doubt where the Jersey
comes from, though the color’s
a bit out.
Marciano (baptised Rocco
Francis Marchegiano when
born at Brockton, Mass., 27
years ago) was floored for “five”
in round one, but fought fiercely
from then on, only the bell sav-
ing Joe at the end of the sixth.
Rocky, though the bridge of his
nose suffered severe damage,
probably by a butt, in round
12, closed the hostilities next
session with a round-house right
to the chin. Walcott’s share of
the spoils, $138,070 (£61,600
Australian), with another $50,000
(£22,300 Australian) from tele-
vision ; Marciano’s cut, $69,035
(£30,400 Australian) and $25,000
(£11,200 Australian) television
rake-off.
SPRING POEM
Life’s difficult; a disappointing
chase
For most of us; a crazy
roundabout.
Luck mostly calls the tune and
sets the pace
What time our hopes fade
weakly up the spout.
Or finish fourth when toted for
a place.
Or second when we back the
cows straight-out!
N.S.W.
P.O.M.C.


Great Plays... .Great Playwrights... .Great Productions....
every Wednesday night 8.30-9.30 in
THE GENERAL MOTORS HOUR
WEDNESDAY, OCT, 1
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 8
PROGRAMME GUIDE
“A STRANGER IN TOWN”
featuring Hollywood star Edward Arnold, and presented
by Harry Dearth.
“SECOND THRESHOLD”
a moving, human drama, starring John Tate, produced and
presented by Harry Dearth. s
2GB 2HR 2CA 2WL 2BH 2KO 2LF 2LT
3TR 3UL 4BH 4GY 4GR 4RO 4TO
2BH presents the programme at 8.80 p.m., Saturdays.
2KO at 8.80 p.m., Fridays.
m
mce
2MG 2MW 2NZ 2PK 3AW 3CV 3HA 3SR
SDN SRM 6IX 6WB 6MD 7HO 7LA
NEW GUINEA WAS
Different
In this first-hand record of actual experience, “DISTROFF,” who Went through
the War in New Guinea, contrasts the kind of fighting there to that depicted
in T. A. G. Hungerford’s vivid novel “The Ridge and the River ”
HUNGERFORD’S The Ridge and
the River is certainly a fine piece
of writing, but only in spirit can
it be taken, as the Red Page said,
as “typical of all the fighting in the
islands to the north.”
Bougainville, where it appears to be set,
may have been like that; but at the late
stage of the New Guinea campaign most
of its incidents simply should not have
occurred.
A commando squadron is being moved
“secretly and swiftly, a section at a time,”
to a new base something less than a day’s
march beyond the forward infantry com-
panies. In the New Guinea hills that’s
no great mileage. And the troops, liable
to be ambushed at any twist of the track,
are incredibly laden-down with per-
sonal gear. They are accompanied by a
long native carrier-line, all apparently
strangers to the area, and under the charge
of a man (Malise) unsuited tempera-
mentally to handle natives. He is also the
section’s forward scout.
That would have been a poorly-
organised one day’s move for the year
1945 in the New Guinea fighting. Long
before then it had been learnt that heavily-
laden troops just can’t move “secretly and
swiftly” in the New Guinea bush and
that exhausted men mean unnecessary
casualties. In New Guinea half the unit,
carrying battle-packs only, would prob-
ably have moved in at once (with
a considerable reduction of travelling-
time), guided by a couple of locally-
born A.N.G.A.U. native police and
accompanied by a native cargo
(rations and reserve ammunition) line.
The near-by Jap concentration could then
have been attacked with effective s*~ ngth
and a fair chance of surprise, while the
carriers, adequately protected, were clear-
ing the dropsite and the remainder of the
unit marched in.
The dysentery-case, too, would have
been left at base to chew sulphaguanadine
for .48 hours and come in with another
section. On a move like that described
a man with dysentery would simply cause
delay and be a bad security-risk: he has
to stop at unpredictable intervals and
can’t be left to make his own way. And,
in a forward position after dark, he must
either risk his mates’ health or risk their
buffets. Ever spent a night in a weapon-
pit with a dysentery patient?
The camp-site chosen by the C.O. is
an abandoned village. In New Guinea it
would certainly have been parti-
cularly liable to be visited by Jap forag-
ing parties. (Without having my local
native intelligence-system much better
organised than Lovatt appears to have
had his, I wouldn’t have camped solo in
that “house garamut” for all the copra
on Bougainville.)
That, in the novel story, there is a like-
lihood of aij immediate attack is indicated
by the ambushing, back along the track,
of the reinforcement lieutenant and
sergeant who are plugging along in the
wake of the section, without a com-
petent guide. No advice of their impend-
ing arrival had been sent (didn’t the C.O.
have a radio and sigs?), which meant that
they were courting suicide anyway by
approaching the camp about dusk.
In the New Guinea fighting the
sending of the new lieutenant and his
patrol out to shoot-up a small enemy
band before the main body of the
squadron had moved forward to
Tononoi would have destroyed whatever
remnants of the operation’s painfully-
sought secrecy had survived the Jap
ambush, with little or nothing gained.
Moreover, since the ambush indicated
that an enemy party of unknown strength
was hanging about in the immediate rear,
any C.O. of ordinary competence, if
willing to risk depleting the meagre
strength of his camp-defence at all, would
have first concentrated on clearing that
L. of C.
The part played by the natives, again,
may apply to Bougainville but certainly
shouldn’t be taken as a picture of what
happened in New Guinea.
4- +
From 1944 onwards the natives of New
Guinea featured in operations to a con-
siderably larger extent than most official
accounts have disclosed. Most, if not all,
Australian fighting units, on the New
Guinea mainland at any rate, had
attached to them at least one A.N.G.A.U.
district service officer with his section of
native police, a contingent of indentured
native carriers with European n.c.o. labor
overseers, and a “private army” of
guerrillas, scouts and village “intelligence
agents.” One of A.N.G A.U.’s jobs was
to try to organise a native intelligence-
system before our troops commenced
operations. With varying degrees of
success this was done in every area from
\Vau to the Dutch border.
When the Australian 6th Division took
over the n.-e. sector from the Americans
at file end of 1944, and the 17th Aust.
Inf. Brigade began fighting its way across
the Torricellis to Maprik, this organising
of the native population halved the recon-
naissance work and saved innumerable
casualties. It became wellnigh impos-
sible for the Jap to move in strength
without his whereabouts and approximate
numbers being swiftly reported to the
local unit-commander.
Messages from distant scouts were
sometimes drummed out on the slit-gongs
(“garamuts”), or sent by “tankets”
(knotted strings to assist the memory of
the messenger). Village guerrillas, issued
with grenades and captured rifles, were
paid a bonus for each Jap killed. Spears,
knives and tomahawks were also used
with effect. The completely-naked hill-
billies of Sunahu village earned seven
days’ fame by annihilating every member
of a well-equipped enemy party whom
they beguiled into sitting down to eat.
In this tough little Aitape-Maprik
campaign, where the enemy was scattered
over a wide area, there were some divert-
ing incidents. The prize for quick-
thinking went to an unarmed kanaka
scout who spoilt a Jap ambush by the
simple expedient of pushing their
machine-gun over —and escaped without
a scratch. Then there was the 14-man
patrol of the 2/5 Battalion (accompanied
by an A.N.G A.U. officer and his
myrmidons), which, after a skirmish,
chased 42 Japs (led by a colonel) for two
days before persuading them to surrender
to the scouts of a village still three and a
half hours’ walk away. The surrender
was arranged by garamut messages. This
was in May, 1945. These Japs had five
Owen-guns as part of their armament.
The native constabulary detachments,
armed like ordinary infantry, were the
aristocrats of the Army’s native
auxiliaries. Ironically, although the con-
tribution of this force to the war effort
was incomparably more valuable than
that of the undisciplined native infantry
battalions, police were classed by
officialdom as civilians, which made them
ineligible for military decorations.
Nor were the Array’s native carriers—
in New Guinea—the shuffling helots
Hungerford seems to have observed in
Bougainville. Certainly they were front-
line civilian conscripts on 10-bob a month
and all found, but they all had identity-
disks and records of service, were fed,
clothed and accommodated in accordance
with special Army instructions, normally
carried a maximum of 401 b. and received
careful medical attention. Controlled by
their own boss-boys and European
n.c.o.s of A.N.G.A.U. Labor Section, they
relayed stores, built camps, carried
wounded and generally helped conserve
the troops’ energies. After their value
had been proved in the Owen Stanleys the
Army’s demand for native labor became
insatiable. Thousands of natives were
wastefully employed in bases, where, like
their white counterparts, they had a good
time at the expense of the troops in the
field. At one stage the Lae Officers’ Club
had 70 native domestics.
Tfie front-line carrier-groups, however,
were of a different calibre. These were
built around the “olds and bolds” —
natives who (since they couldn’t get home
anyway) had been with the Army since
the early days of the Jap invasion; they
included hundreds of mainland men
brought by the Japs from New Britain
plantations to Buna. They were tough,
loud-mouthed old-soldier types, inured
to danger, addicted to gambling, impartial
looters of Jap camps and native
villages alike. They enjoyed bandying
Rabelaisian witticisms with the troops,
whom they jokingly called “Sydney
kanakas,” and the last thing many of
them wanted was to return to stagnant
village life. Justifiably proud of their
record, they sneered at kanakas (village
natives) and new recruits as “Chocos,”
and got into trouble with village women
whenever they could. There is no such
thing as inter-tribal Melanesian solidarity.
+ +
Going on my own observations, I think
Hungerford’s insight fails him when it
comes to native psychology. Malise,
whose mind is twisted by the secret shame
of his mixed blood, is hated by the
natives, whom he bullies, because he is
an ardent seducer of their women. Unless
he went about raping them —which would
have caused terrific uproar and swiftly
terminated his Army career—his only
road to the ladies’ favors lay through
cultivating the more mercenary of then-
leading menfolk.
Even then, a plausibly humorous
tongue and a keen understanding of
Melanesian mentality attributes that
Malise obviously lacked would be
required. New Guinea natives love an
astute and amusing rogue—their own
folktales invariably have such characters
as heroesr—and they regard sex relations
as a matter of property rights rather than
of womanly honor. To depict Womai
and associates as loathing Malise simply
because the corporal had slept with native
women in another area is unbelievable.
Stories concerning some of New Guinea’s
most successful “native men” come to
mind. A more typical reaction would
have been for the scout to cadge Malise’s
tobacco, with just the slightest , hint of
blackmail in his approach, on the ground
that one of the ladies was his wife’s
brother’s daughter.
Still, it’s a good yam; and, as I say,
Bougainville may have been different.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SPOTLIGHT ON THE KREMLIN
On October 5, for the first
time in 13 years, and 10 years
overdue, the 19th Congress of
the Soviet Communist party
will open in Moscow.
Even in advance the event has
had all the publicity in
the Western Press the Kremlin
could wish for. It has, as may
have been intended in the
timing, stolen some of the
thunder from the American
Presidential election. The fact
that the stipulated time between
congresses has been changed
from three years to four may
have resulted from that con-
sideration also.
The spate of comment on this
month’s congress is based on
Kremlin announcements.
“If,” says London “Econo-
mist,” “Malenkov, not Molotov,
is to do a job hitherto done only
by Lenin and Stalin; if the
notorious Politbureau and Org-
bureau have been abolished ; if
the congress is to discuss
changes in the structure of the
party which leads not only the
Soviet Union but all Communist
parties save the Chinese—then,
indeed, things are happening.”
Stalin’s Heir
The “Economist” surmises
that probably preparations are
being made to begin Stalin’s
gradual withdrawal from
supreme control and to groom a
successor or successors.
• From the Kremlin announce-
ments many have assumed that
if there is to be one successor
the one will be Malenkov. Thus,
“Manchester Guardian”: “That
Mr. Malenkov is to make the
main speech seems to confirm
the impression that he is being
groomed as a successor to
Marshal Stalin.”
“New York Times,” however,
holds that, though Malenkov
gains in prestige and stature by
this assignment, he has still
many hurdles to overcome. It
dryly points out that some of
the “world’s most talented in-
triguers” are seeking to win the
coveted mantle.
Also warning that too much
should not be made of the role
assigned to Malenkov, the
“Economist” says: “It cannot
be taken for granted that he,
rather than Molotov or Beria, is
being groomed for the succes-
sion. All that can be safely said
is that Malenkov’s career,
modelled on that of Stalin,
makes him a likely bet. He is
the consummate bureaucrat, the
controlling figure in the Org-
bureau which has hitherto
watched over the party cadres,
the skilled manipulator of the
party machine.”
Future Course
A careful and well-informed
writer on Soviet Russia, Edward
Crankshaw, in Edinburgh
“Scotsman” interprets the
general meanings of the Kremlin
event thus:
“It means that Stalin at last
considers that he has got the
Soviet Union on an even keel
after the immense disorganisa-
tion brought about by the war
and the frenzied development
and consolidation of Communist
influence since. It means that
during the long silence of the
past years the Kremlin has been
taking stock, charting its future
course, and is now ready to
make a public announcement of
it.
“It also means that Stalin
feels able to face the country
with a tale of achievement won
and a clear call for the future. It
means, in a word, that Russia
has turned the corner. It means
that she has, in the eyes of
Stalin, re-established herself
after the devastation of the war
and is able to take formal stock
and to announce a programme
for the future. It means, to us
in the outside world, that, after
October 5, we shall have a
clearer guide to the conduct of
the Soviet Union than we have
had since the war.
“The great question is
whether in her new confidence
the Soviet Union will relax her
pressure on the West, or whether
she will increase it. The con-
gress may very well provide the
answer.”
New Optimism
The “Yorkshire Post,” expres-
sing views on Russia which can
be said to have much more sup-
port in Britain than in America,
also sees Stalin as leading from
strength in convening the con-
gress :
“Sir Alvary Gascoigne, the
British Ambassador in Moscow,”
it notes, “has just completed a
London “Daily Express."
“If we se n our best planes to America and they send ’em back to bases in England, I reckon
that’s good business.”
lone tour in southern Russia,
On his return he said how
impressed he was by the electric
feeline of energv evident among
the people engaged on rebuild-
ing the war-ravaged citadel of
Stalingrad Other visitors to
Russia have given a comple-
mentary view Those, for
Imnanrp. who went to the eco-
Se oMhftfc ofsoMopfr
f? 4.
It would be altogether
easy to write off the energy
due to the threat of fee slave-
onmornTof momeanda™ Forced
labor does of course, play a
part in the Russian economy;
but even on the most lavish com-
putation it does not play a
decisive part. .
“As for propaganda, there is
a limit set to its use by the fact
that you cannot fool all the
people all the time. If the Rus-
sian svstem were built up solely
on force and fraud one could
cafplv relv on its ultimate col-
lapse 7 The people of Russia are
certainly hard driven. But they
respond not simply from fear of
punishment but because they are
young and energetic. They have
a self-reliance which is fostered,
but not made, by propaganda. It
is a feeling which Tolstoy noted
in his War and Peace. It may
be due simply to the fact that
each Russian knows himself to
be the member of a very large
and therefore very powerful
group. But it is none the less
real for that.”
Cold-war Planning
Less sentimentally, London
“Daily Telegraph” also sees
Stalin as leading from strength,
Recalling the Russia of 1939,
when the last congress was held,
and reviewing what has hap-
pened through war in the mean-
time, it comments:
“Today the worst of the war
damage has been repaired. In-
dustrial production is back at
pre-war level. The party has
been purged and re-educated.
A cordon sanitadre of puppet
States surrounds Russia’s wes-
tern frontiers. Communist
China has become a belligerent
ally in the east. The Soviet
people have been brought under
control, and the way is clear for
further advances along the road
to Communism inside Russia
and perhaps far outside it.
“These aspects of the scene
as surveyed by the masters of
the Kremlin are unlikely to be
minimised in the speeches de-
livered at the party congress.
The intensification of the war
—still a cold war for the
U.S.S.R. —against ‘lmperialism’
and ‘Capitalism’ throughout the
world can now be urged with
greater assurance than at any
time since 1939.”
As to that, the “Economist’s”
reading of both the Soviet
Budget and the latest Five-year
Plan is that “the Russians are
planning not for peace or for
war but for what the West calls
cold war. They may be losing
to the Atlantic allies some of
the advantage in sheer military
strength that they established
during the years when the
United States and Britain were
disarming, but they are build-
ing up a formidable potential for
the future to be used as they
think fit.”
Why Britain Leads
j n L ondon “Financial Times”
Air-Commodore A. V. Harvey,
deputy _ chairman of
Handley-Page, explains :
“Britain’s proud position in
the military and civil air is based
upon the quality of its war-
planes during and since the
Great War, and is due largely
to the foresight of senior R.A.F.
o ffi cers w h o had drawn up the
specifications of a long series of
fl t military aircraft
su , cc , military direr i
which were to hand when
wanted,
“It was m toe early thirties
f°r example, that Britain s
superb eight-gunned fighters of
the last war were projected;
they saved the free world m
1940.
“A comparable foresight gave
Britain its unmatched four-
engined, long-range bombers
early in the war; they were in
full-scale production and in
multi-squadron service in time
to pulverise the war-making
potential of the Third Reich.
“In spite of Britain’s pre-
occupation with military aircraft
during toe war years, Lord
Brabazon and his committee
and all concerned in the British
aircraft industry have ensured
that, by concentration on cer-
tain types of aircraft and engine
afterwards, Britain is in the van-
guard of aviation progress
today.”
Hence, “Present indications
are that we stand on the thres-
hold of a golden age in British
aviation.”
Japan's Elections
Today (Oct. 1) is election-day
for the House of Representatives
in Japan. .
Unlike the belated gathering
in Moscow, the elections are well
ahead of time, not being due till
next February.
They are the fourth to be held
since the war, but have the
special significance of being the
first to be held since the peace
treaty, which they are expected
to endorse.
The principal parties are the
Liberals of Premier Yoshida,
who was jailed for his anti-war
stand, and the Progressives,
headed by war-time Foreign
Minister Shigemitsu, a convicted
war criminal who has been
paroled.
As summarised by “New
York Times,” the Liberals, who
backed Premier Yoshida in his
co-operation with the occupa-
tion regime and in his conduct
of the negotiations which led to
the peace treaty, stand for con-
tmued co-operation with the
U.S. and the West m general, for
a liberal tree-enterprise system
as an essential basis tor de-
mocracy, for necessary rearma-
ment to withstand external and
internal Communist aggression,
S?
* W P-n P c r e° Vid S
American defence troops in
Japan until Japan is able to
de f en d herself.
The Progressives, on the other
hand, denounce the Liberals for
j -f s -
ordination to the v »
good-neighborly
and
“4 . p J „
Taken as a whole the Pro-
Taken aS o™e 0 ™ e corn-
-Bressives programme, com
men t s New York Times,
» a p pe ars to echo ideas prevalent
in pre-war Japan, which pre-
ferred to g 0 it alone and regi-
mented its people under a regime
t h a t aimed at the establishment
0 f a ‘Greater East-Asia Co-
prosperity Sphere, which under
present circumstances might
mean closer trade ties with Com-
munist China,
“In propagating such a pro-
gramme the Progressives may be
counting on the resurgence of
the old Japanese nationalist tra-
ditions, and, if so, the world
will watch to see how the
Japanese people respond to such
an appeal.”
“Manchester Guardian ’ notes
that most of the politicians ex-
eluded from public life during
the occupation are again ree o
take part: Many of them will
get back, and som ®’ Il: *
more circumspect tfian m me
past, have probably not changed
at all the ideas on account of
which they were disciplined.”
A New York “Herald Tri-
bune” report states that of the
1300-odd candidates one-fourth
are men purged by General
MacArthur, including former
war criminals. The Progressives’
leader, Shigemitsu, signed the
surrender aboard the U.S.S. Mis-
souri in September, 1945.
The report says the real main
issue is one of butter or guns;
the voters will express them-
selves on rearmament:
“If Prime Minister Shigeru
Yoshida’s Liberal party is re-
turned to power it will be inter-
preted as a green-light from the
electorate for Japan to build up
its armed forces to defend itself
against Communist aggression.”
A Tokyo report in “Man-
chester Guardian” states that the
significance of the elections, as
seen by informed Japanese, rests
on two issues: whether Yoshida
can defeat Ichiro Hatoyama’s
attempt to regain the presidency
of the Liberal party, which he
lost when purged by personal
order of General MacArthur in
1946, and what the verdict of
the voters will be on what the
Press calls “the San Francisco
arrangement,” meaning the
peace treaty, the accompanying
Administrative Agreement with
the U.S., the proposed rearma-
ment of Japan, the embargo on
trade with Communist China
and other “United States-insti-
gated” policies that flowed from
the peace treaty and the Ameri-
can alliance.
Anti-Americanism
Examples haye been given
here of anti-Americanism in
Britain and on the Continent.
In London “Time and Tide”
author and broadcaster Patrick
Howarth reports on its extra-
ordinary increase, “one of the
stranger triumphs of the advo-
cates of the slave-State”:
“Some time around the end of
1946, when I was living behind
the Iron Curtain, I formed the
impression that a new instruction
had gone out to Soviet propa-
gandists in Europe. This was
that the maximum effort should
be made to drive wedges between
the United States and Western
Europe, and that while this was
being done all other propaganda
should be considered of
secondary importance. Looking
back after nearly six years, I
find the success with which this
instruction has been carried out
alarming.”
In Britain at the present
moment, he finds, “anti-
Americanism is one of the
strongest emotional cards a
demagogue can play”:
“It is usually played with the
prefatory remark, ‘I am not of
course anti-American,’ which is
becoming the modern variant of
the old phrase, ‘Some of my best
friends are Jews,’ But it is being
played with increasing frequency,
and its use is not confined to
professional demagogues. People
who are in other respects reason-
able and sober citizens are today
saying perhaps only half-
seriously—that there seems little
to choose between American and
Russian domination.”
Regarding it as a triumph of
deliberately and cunningly used
Communist tactics, Howarth
holds that soon after the end of
the war it must have become
clear to the Politburo that they
had little hope of convincing
more than a small fraction of
Western Europeans of the bene-
ficence of the Soviet system
merely by pointing to the
example of Russia. In the past
it had been possible to fool the
Webbs and Bernard Shaw, but
that sort of thing could not go
on for ever. Too much was
becoming known. There had
been too many Koestlers and
Orwells and Kravchenkos. Even
Harold Laski died a badly disil-
lusioned man:
“Consequently relatively little
effort is being made at the
moment to advertise Soviet poli-
tical wares in Western Europe.
We are not asked to admire
Russians, we are simply asked to


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman). ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP. A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Paclzers o/;
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING -INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
resent Americans. We are no
longer told much about collec-
tive farms or the Moscow ballet;
we are told a great deal about
germ-warfare. And though we
may not believe the bigger lies,
such as the germ-warfare story,
we are left with a sense of be-
wilderment ; our resentment at
having lost the lead to the United
States in so many fields is
nourished; and since few
people can bother about more
than one political issue at a
time, we have less and less
energy and inclination to con-
sider the horrors of the Russian
slave-State. In the end we reach
the point at which, more than
two years after North Korea
committed an act of unprovoked
aggression, an appreciable pro-
portion of the British people are
beginning to regard the Ameri-
cans in Korea as warmongers.”
Further noting that the overt
propagandists for Communism
have largely dropped the use of
words like “capitalist,” “reac-
tionary,” “imperialist” when
appealing to British audiences,
and that “to arouse hatred and
resentment they prefer the
simpler word ‘Yanks’,” Howarth
insists:
“Unless the eyes of a great
many people are opened very
soon, the success of the anti-
American propaganda campaign
will have the gravest political
consequences.”
"Double Patriotism."
Claimed as an excuse for
sundry traitor scientists, “intel-
lectuals” and others, “double
patriotism” is nailed by “New
York Times’’ as an important
part of the Communist creed of
conquest;
“The difference between
Hitler’s National Socialism and
Russian National Bolshevism is
that while the former appealed
only to the Germans and to
force the latter undertakes to
prepare an ideological basis for
the subjugation of other nations.
“That basis, camouflaged with
Communism, is provided by the
concept of a ‘double’ or
‘Socialist’ patriotism, which is
hailed as the modern form of
‘proletarian internationalism.’ ”
“Like ‘Soviet patriotism,’
‘Socialist patriotism’ likewise
commands supreme loyalty to
the Soviet Union to the point of
open or disguised war against
one’s own ‘capitalist’ Govern-
ment. From there it is but a
short step to the last act of sub-
mission, which is acquiescence
in Soviet Russian annexation.
“Such amiexation was first de-
nounced as an ‘absolute evil,’
then excused as a ‘lesser evil’ on
the ground that it ‘saved’ the
annexed from ‘capitalist
imperialism’ and is now hailed
as an absolute good because of
the supposed cultural and ideo-
logical ‘blessings’ that go with
it.”
Governor-General
Commenting on the appoint-
ment of Sir William Slim,
“Manchester Guardian” delves
into Harold Nicolson’s recent
biography of King George V
for the behind-scenes story of
Sir Isaac Isaacs.
The King, it seems, approved
of the Isaacs appointment, in
his own words, “with great re-
luctance,” on the urgent insist-
ence of the then Australian
Prime Minister Scullin, who
had incautiously let his prefer-
ence become known before it
had been discussed with the
King. Lord Stamfordham, the
King’s Private Secretary, ex-
plained to Scullin that
The King: did not object to the fact
of Mr. Scullin’s nominee being an
Australian, but upon the principle
that any local man, whether in
politics or not, must have local
political predilections .... whereas
a nominee from England had no
local politics.
Scullin, in private audience,
pressed his point, and the King
gave way, being, in Lord Stam-
fordham’s words, “well aware
how easy it is to light and fan
the flame of agitation by an ill-
disposed minority.”
MacDonald, then Britain’s
Prime Minister, also feared “a
very dangerous agitation” if the
King’s assent was withheld. In
a minute to the King, Lord
Stamfordham noted that
This morning's incident was one
of the most important political and
Constitutional issues upon which
your Majesty has had to decide
during your twenty years of reign.
When Isaacs retired, Lyons,
who had succeeded Scullin,
London “News Chronicle.”
GETTING SOMEWHERE.
asked for a successor “from
Great Britain, and of dis-
tinguished lineage.”
“Other Dominions,” com-
ments “Manchester Guardian,”
“have followed the precedent
made by Mr. Scullin, though in
a more graceful manner,”
Dragnet Digest
Probably Incurable. —London
“Time and Tide” diagnosis:
“Self-satisfaction is one of the
occupational diseases of a poli-
tician. ‘The only difference be-
tween you and a rhinoceros,”
said an exasperated old friend
once to an eminent political
leader, ‘is the sensitivity of the
latter’s hide.’ ”
Hirohito, Democrat.
“Emperor Hirohito,” reports
“Manchester Guardian’s” Tokyo
correspondent, “is more instinc-
tively democratic in his opinions
than most of his subjectsr—or
his courtiers.”
Handouts Off. —“It should be
made clear to Europe,”
comments San Francisco
“Chronicle,” “that, whatever
happens in November [the Presi-
dential election], the United
States is going to have to start a
drastic taper-off of uncompen-
sated aid to Europe.”
Pakistan Slide. —A London
“Times” special correspondent
reports that the enthusiasm
for the British Common-
wealth so evident in Pakistan in
1947 has, in the past five years,
been almost completely dissi-
pated, and more intimate ties
with it are now ruled out. “Even
among those in the upper levels
of the Government who
recognise the benefits of the
Commonwealth connection, few
are prepared to advocate
strengthening the present loose
relationship.”
Oil. —Reason why the Anglo-
Iranian oil people have “retained
their equanimity,” as given by
London “New Statesman”:
“Their new oilfields in Kuweit
and Saudi Arabia are proving
so rich that they have already
nearly made up the deficiency
caused by the cutting-off of
Persian oil. These new fields are
fortunately located in almost un-
inhabitable deserts, seeping with
oil but deficient in political
dynamite. A local Moussadek
is unlikely, for some years to
come, to raise the banner of
National Liberation.”
Enosis. “M anchester
Guardian” correspondent on an
issue that will be cropping up in
the news: “Growing demands
for the union {‘enosis') of Greece
and Cyprus threaten to increase
the difficulties of Middle Eastern
defence. In Greece the entire
Press agitates almost daily for
‘enosis ’ ”
Headache No. 1. —It is certain,
says a Washington report in New
York “Herald Tribune,” that “a
major crisis in Western defence
planning is the first great issue
which the next U.S. President
will have to face.”
Rhee’s Korea. Damned
without praise by London
“Economist’s” correspondent on
the spot: “The resemblances be-
tween President Rhee’s South
Korea of 1952 and President
Chiang Kai-shek’s China of
1947-48 • are strong, increasing
and alarming. Inflation, corrup-
tion, bribery, Government
monopolies, martial law and the
mass arrest of political opponents
are all symptoms and conditions
of a national sickness that may
well become mortal. They
threaten the undefeated United
Nations soldiers on the battle-
front with civil collapse and
betrayal in the rear.”
Translating the Sack. —Little-
noted incident at a meeting of
U.N.O. Economic and Social
Council, recorded by a London
“Daily Telegraph” writer:
“Delegates were startled when
Georgi Arkadiev, the Soviet
representative, quoted an
American newspaper headline
saying that striking American
workers were being told to get
back to their jobs or be shot.
Arkadiev had mistranslated the
word ‘fired.’ ”
French Peasant Corns.
Most reports and comments on
the admittedly awkward French
Communist problem restrict it
to secondary industry and the
cities; not generally noticed
outside France (reports a New
York “Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent) is the fact that there are
entire regions where the electoral
strength of the Communist party
among the peasants far outranks
that of all its competitors.
Reverse Reciprocity. —“ After
trying for nearly twenty years to
establish normal relations with
Soviet Russia,” says “New York
Times,” “the American Govern-
ment has been compelled to
resort to a new policy in dealing
with that country and its
satellites —the policy of selective
retaliation and punitive re-
ciprocity.” Rough translation:
tit for tat.
This Complex Age. —“ New
York Times” pinpoints a contem-
porary phenomenon; “One of
the characteristics of our times —
and this cannot be stressed too
often —is the extraordinary com-
plexity of the issues that have to
be faced. In just about every
case one not only has a choice
of evils but a gamble. The over-
powering temptation is to avoid
or postpone a choice until
events make one necessary.”
Pacific Alliance. —Edinburgh
“Scotsman”: “The U.S. Gov-
ernment hopes to foster
military co-operation between
Australia and Japan as a means
of allaying Australia’s fears that
the rearming of Japan will be
followed by renewed Japanese
aggression.”
German-unification Fallacy. —
“It is,” declares a London
“Fortnightly” writer, “only the
foreign Press which imagines
that Germans wake up every
morning appalled at the division
of Germany after dreaming of
unification. The average German
does not give it a thought. If he
could get unification for nothing,
he would be delighted. But I
would like a Gallup poll to be
taken in Western Germany on
the question; ‘lf unification of
Germany would result in a lower
standard of living for you, are
you in favor of unification?’
The result, I feel, would be most
enlightening.”
Asking Uncle •—A writer in
New York “Herald Tribune”
poses a couple of questions: “If
we [U.S.A.] are the world’s
leaders in industrial efficiency,
why do we need tariff protection
to the substantial extent to
which we still have it? If we
are staunch believers in the
virtues of competition, why are
we so anxious to eliminate or
reduce the competition in our
markets of foreign-manu-
factured goods?”
The Korea Bombings. —Giving
“the real reason” why Gen.
Bradley, chairman of U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, did not tell the
British that power-plants in
Korea were to be bombed, “U.S.
News and World Report” states;
“Knowledge of plans was kept
to the fewest possible individuals
out of fear that even the hint of
a leak would alert the Com-
munists and cost the lives of
more American pilots.”
England Yet. —Paris “Terre
Humaine” proffers a bouquet:
“Great Britain still has an im-
portant part to play in a world
where her prestige has been
diminished and her power
reduced, and where the civilised
values she represents are seri-
ously threatened, and if she is
really entering upon an Eliza-
bethan age, if her young Queen
brings her luck (there are living
and noble superstitions which
carry more weight than pedantic
sociology), the whole of man-
kind will be delighted to see that
the world still contains an Eng-
land.”
Rejuvenated Lion. —London
“Daily Express’s” loud hip-hip:
“The British people are through
with retreating; through with
shirking. They are through with
the scuttlers from Abadan. As
they were behind Erskine, of
Suez, now they are behind
Templer, of Malaya.”
Europe Could Retaliate. —
“Faced with (U.S.) import quotas
and higher tariffs against their
goods,” reports New York
“Herald Tribune,” “European
producers and Governments are
ominously close to a retreat into
retaliatory protectionism, long-
range cuts in purchases from the
United States, and a reorienta-
tion of their trade toward the
Soviet bloc.”
Indian View on China. —The
“Times of India” makes a cap
to fit both Indian and Bevanite
British policy just about per-
fectly : “It is time that
many members of the United
Nations learned the simple fact
that the Communists cannot be
mollycoddled into peace, and
nothing can be so disastrously
fatuous as the assumption that
the Chinese Communists are in
some way a sadly misunderstood
people whose eccentricities must
be tolerated for the sake of
peace.”


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
S 3
h
"S
Established 1808 in Reign of
Oeofge 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under lib.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
gf
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
' The KEO-BARHEEE
acts like a band
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3d), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
BRANDAUERS
PENS
w
Every point
guaranteed —•
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham. England
“World
Destruction”
Will the atomic bomb be
unleashed to wreak its havoc on
the world? Write for free book-
let, “How Will It All End?”
Braille literature also available
for the blind.
The Secretary,
Book Dept., Regent Hall,
49-51 Regent Street,
Sydney.
bunched knuckles and then
snapped back into place.
“Wanted t’ buy y’ a drink,”
Polish Joe told him sorrow-
fully. “Couldn’t find y’ nowhere,
an’ here you was all th’ time
guzzling away with them hairy
mates o’ yours. Never a thought
for me bein’ just as thirsty as
yourself, on account of I’d
shovelled near as damn it as fast,
at th’ bogging and th’ shaft-
sinking.”
“Jees, I’m sorry!” said the
hairy man, looking truly
ashamed. “Never done a thing
like that before. Dunno what I
coulder been thinkin’ of. Any-
way, if it ain’t too late we can
have one now. There’s plenty
more back in there, an’ we can
have the fight after.”
Then the pair of them went
back into the bar like brothers,
and they never got around to
having the fight at all. It was five
days before the police persuaded
them to come out of the bar
and go to jail like good citizens.
By then they were up for an
immense amount between them
for what they had drunk, and for
the damages and for what all the
other hairy men had drunk on
the night of St. Patrick’s Day.
But the publican who owned the
stock and the equipment in the
recreation - ground bar didn’t
worry, because he knew that
when Polish Joe did anything
like that he paid to the last
penny. And this time he had a
mate as good as himself, or
maybe even a whisker better, to
help hjrn earn the money.
And, sure enough, when they
came out of jail they got con-
tract work side by side on the
Lallapalooza Deeps, and between
them they earned all the money
they needed in a fortnight. In
that two weeks they deepened the
Lallapalooza shaft a thousand
feet, and they took a drive at
the eighteen - hundred - foot
level right across the border into
the next State, and neither of
them drank a drop of anything
except water, of which they con-
sumed two-hundred-and-fifteen
gallons a day on the job and an
unknown quantity when they
were off-shift. They became
warm friends, but the hairy man
was too hairy and set in his ways
to be really happy anywhere but
at Hannigan’s Halt, and Polish
Joe couldn’t be happy anywhere
too far from Gloria Glasson, the
fancy blonde behind the bar at
the Railway.
SO when they had paid their
debts they spent three weeks
shaking hands and having a part-
ing drink, and the last hairy man
went off out of town, and there
were never any more bogging
championships, because it was
obvious that there would be no
worth-while competition for
Polish Joe unless the hairy man
came back, which he never did.
The only permanent results ot
the whole affair are the story
and the cranky lean on the
recreation - ground grandstand)
where one of its comers sub-
sided into Polish Joe’s tunneL
‘‘The low heel!” said Helen.
“As if I’d want to see him
again. What sort of a tramp is
he, anyhow? I thought you
said that all country people had
cars.”
“Oh, he could afford a car,”
Mrs. Faraday defended him.
“But he says he likes walking
and that learning to drive would
be a nuisance.”
Helen gave another sniff. All
the young men she knew drove
at eighty miles an hour with one
hand, even if they couldn’t own
a car.
‘‘ \\l HY shouldn’t I go with
* * George?” Helen asked
plaintively. “For the last two
days I haven’t been anywhere.”
“All right; go if you like,”
said her sister. “But you know
neither of them wants you.”
She looked at George with a
disapproving frown, because she
knew that he wouldn’t support
her.
“Don’t worry about me,”
George laughed. “I’ve seen all
her stuff.”
Mrs. Faraday said crossly, “I
wasn’t thinking about that.”
But Helen looked at her with
a world of complacency for her
own youth and beauty. When
she got into the car she sat
unnecessarily close to George
because she could see her sister
watching.
Beresford looked utterly
astonished and quite discon-
certed when he saw Helen. “I’ve
never had a woman in my house
before,” he blurted out, as if
some fundamental right of his
had been violated. “What on
earth am I going to do with
you?”
“I’ll just sit and watch you,”
Helen said, in a most agreeable,
social manner.
But that didn’t put Beresford
at his ease. He began by play-
ing records, as he usually did
for George ; but he seemed to
be unnerved, not so much by
Helen’s obvious lack of interest
as by her mere presence. He
brought her books to look at,
as if his duties as host were
weighing heavily upon him;
mostly art-books, because, as he
said in a momentary recovery
of his earlier attitude, “If you
don’t want to read, you can look
at the pictures! ”
He went on playing records
while she idly flipped over the
pages of one book after another.
But presently she made an
exclamation that was full of
feminine triumph, though it was
George she addressed. “Well,
what do you know! All of
these books fall open at pictures
of the most seductive nudes!”
Beresford’s tanned face be-
came a shade ruddier. He said
qhickly, “They’re not seductive ;
they’re artistic.”
But when Helen continued to
grin at him, he rushed on, “My
young brother always looks at
them. That’s why the books
open there, I suppose.”
He turned to Faraday, and
quickly put up a barrage of talk
of the most esoteric nature, to
exclude Helen. But all the time
he fidgeted with his hands, and
seemed to be unable to decide
which records to play.
Helen continued to stare at
him. Then she suddenly said,
in a gracious manner, as if she
were sympathising with him,
“Wouldn’t you like to show me
over your house?”
“Why, yes, of course,” Beres-
ford said immediately, appar-
ently relieved. Then his eyes
flew to George, as a new thought
seemed to occur to him.
“You two go,” George said,
putting a book up to hide his
face. “I want to read this.”
Beresford showed Helen
his kitchen, full of labor-
saving devices, the dining-alcove
of his own design, and then, after
some hesitation, the bathroom.
“It’s a splendid bathroom,”
Helen said. “Why didn’t you
want me to see it?”
Beresford looked uncomfort-
able. “I didn’t think it was
nice.”
“Not nice? But it is nice. I
just told you.”
“I don’t mean the bathroom,”
Beresford said, and then he
stopped,
Helen looked at him, wonder-
ing. “Now I want to see your
bedroom,” she said.
Beresford tried to avoid meet-
ing her eyes. “Oh, but that really
wouldn’t be nice!” he objected.
“If it’s as nice as your bath-
room,” Helen began, but then
she interrupted herself. “This
must be it; it’s the only door
we haven’t opened.”
She opened it and went in.
Beresford stopped at the
threshold, his face full of mis-
giving.
“Aren’t you coming in to
show me things?” she asked.
But Beresford shook his head
with the deepest embarrassment.
He seemed to have difficulty in
speaking. “I think we’d better
go back to George,” he said.
When they got back home that
night Helen said to the family
in her sprightliest manner, “Two
things I found out about him
today. One of them is that he
isn’t a woman-hater,”
“Hah, that’s what you think,”
Mrs. Faraday said, close to
sneering. “And what’s the
other?”
Helen made an impudent
grimace. “I won’t tell you that.
But my! When I think of how
he snubbed me that first day —
what couldn’t 1 do to that
man?”
I UST what Helen had done
to that man was the ques-
tion that was squirming excitedly
round and round in Mrs. Fara-
day’s mind as she sat waiting for
her explanation.
“I suppose it had something
to do with your bicycle-ride this
morning,” she suggested, to get
her started.
Helen swung her arms about
in a despairing gesture, not alto-
gether unlike Beresford’s, where
he was talking to George at the
end of the drive. “I can’t ever
tell you,” she said. “I’ll never
be able to tell anybody. It’s so
silly and so awful. It wasn’t
my fault at all. It was all an
accident.
“I didn’t know where your
silly roads go to. I started off
in the opposite direction. I was
so bored with just sitting here
doing nothing that I rode and
rode without thinking of the
filthy hot weather. When I
stopped I was in a mess of
perspiration. There was a nice
cool creek there. It had dense
trees on both sides, and there
wasn’t a house in miles. So I
decided to cool off in it.”
“Oh, Helen! ” exclaimed Mrs.
Faraday. “Without a swimsuit! ”
“Well, why not?” Helen flung
back. “You don’t wear a swim-
suit in a bathroom, do you?
And it was just as private.”
Mrs. Faraday nodded, though
with some reservations.
“The water was nice ; one of
the few nice things I’ve seen
here. I lay on my back and
drifted, without worrying how
far I was going because of the
bushes on the sides.”
She stopped a moment and
eyed her sister calculatingly.
“Then suddenly I saw a man
lying on the grass on the bank.
It was Beresford.”
Mrs. Faraday gave a little
shriek. “How awful! ”
“It wasn’t so awful, he was
reading a book, and he didn’t
see me.”
“Ah,” said Mrs. Faraday, and
waited.
Helen was looking unsophisti-
catedly embarrassed.
“Go on,” urged her sister,
Helen turned her head away.
“I didn’t think of what I was
doing; I just got a sudden idea
what a lark it would be to let
him see one of those naiads he
reads about.”
“Oh, Helen!” Mrs. Faraday’s
voice was like the family ances-
tors getting ready to turn.
“I didn’t! I didn’t! I hid
behind some low bushes and just
splashed a bit. If he’d only
stayed lying down it would have
been all right. How could I
“My dear, George is a changed man since
he gave up smokes and drinks."
know that the poor mutt would
get a great fright and jump to
his feet?”
“It’s quite a natural thing to
do,” her sister reminded her.
“Not for normal people,”
Helen defended herself hotly.
“Everything he did was ridicu-
lous, The way he blushed ; not
only his face and neck, but his
bare arms and legs. And there
he stood gaping; not that he
could see me, really, or had any
reason to go on like that. Why,
even you know the accidents
you have in the surf with the
new swimsuits, and your boy-
friends just look away as if
nothing happened. But not him.
He just opened and shut his
mouth several times; but he
couldn’t say anything. Imagine
him not being able to talk!
“He made me feel so awful
that I couldn’t think of what to
do, either. At last I dived deep
under the water, and swam as
far as I could. I was so annoyed
with him that I half decided to
drown myself and leave it to
him to explain how I came to
be there like that, in the pool
where he always reads his sexy
books.”
“But you didn’t drown your-
self,” Mrs. Faraday said, eager
to hear the whole of it.
“When I came up again he’d
disappeared. But now he’s fol-
lowed me here. Everything he
does is wrong. What on earth
will he be doing next?”
GEORGE came in half an
hour later with a look of
great perplexity on his face.
“Poor old Beresford! ” he
said. “You’ve certainly upset
him somehow, Helen. But I
can’t for the life of me follow
his line of reasoning. He insists
that I convey to you a formal
offer of marriage.”
Helen gave a despairing shriek.
“Everything he does is dreadful!”
George looked surprised.
“After'all,” he said, “you didn’t
need to do whatever it was you
did, I’m sure he’s only making
this proposal because he thinks
it’s the gentlemanly thing to do
under the circumstances.”
Helen turned on him fiercely.
“You beast, George! You’re as
bad as he is. You haven’t a bit
of sympathy for me.”
She burst into a shower of
tears. Mrs. Faraday suddenly
got a sisterly look on her face;
she went and put her arm round
Helen’s shoulder. “There, there,
don’t cry. Things could be a lot
worse. I believe he is quite well
off. He must be, to live the way
he does.”
George gaped at his wife.
“Do you mean to say she’s going
to marry him?”.
Neither of the women
bothered to reply.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS EDWARD SORRY late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
THORA SORRY has filed a Petition in
Divorce No. 3094 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the First day of
December 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HICKSON,
LAKEMAN & HOLCOMRE, Solicitors,
10 Caetlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
AMAZING NEW AIR JET
Bicycle Speedometer
See what speed you are
aping. Works same way as
aircraft speed indicator.
''lip on handlebars. Large,
easily read dial. Shows
speed up to 50 m.p.h 12/6
posted.
hg
n A ~? A ENGINEERING CO.,
BOX 32, p.o. Camperdown, N.S.W.
Public Notice
I, ZELMAN JURKOWSKI, of Polish
nationality, born at Kielce, Poland, resi-
dent two years in Australia, now residing
at 80 Wild Street, Maroubra, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction. No. 268 of 1951.
TO PHILLIP MARKWELL formerly of 4
Rodborough Avenue North Sydney in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that a Decree foj Restitution of
Conjugal Rights and Order have been made
requiring you to take back or return to
your wife AMELIA VIRA MARKWELL on
or before 31st October 1952 The address
at which you are to communicate with
your wife is 1 Nerang Road Cronulla
N.S.W. You are to file in the Divorce
Office King Street Sydney on or before
4th November 1952 a certificate of your
compliance with the decree A copy of the
decree order and notices have been posted
for you to your father W. Markwell at
Miles Street Coolangatta Queensland If
you fail to comply with the said decree
within the specified time your wife may
forthwith petition for judicial separation
or divorce.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Look for this Sign ... it's your guarantee of.
Happij /flet&Una
ATLANTIC
~lr © JRu UJ m
nMA^^66SBBI
LJH * I
r '-V
XZZZZZZZZ [U
]T
m#?.
ix
m
m
imm
mm.
r
■
*>•.
s
■
-
«
f
'
h
gh
Wherever you go on any highway look
for the Atlantic Oval. It’s your
assurance of top quality service, and
top quality products, backed by the
world’s oldest and largest refiners.
ATLANTIC — flash — ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL (So) PARADYNE
FUEL
IMPROVER.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
To buy Australian Poetry, 1944,
edited by R. G. Howarth, and Coast
to Coast, 1945, edited by Douglas
Stewart. —5306.
Copy of Arnold Bennett’s How to
Live on Twenty-four Hours a Day
and The Human Machine. —5315.
Copy of The Riddle of the Pacific
by Macmillan Brown. —5316.
To buy old theatrical playbills,
prints, pictures, etc. —5317.
To buy copy of The History of
Firearms, by Major Pollard; also
words of “By Bendemeer Stream.” —
5318.
To buy “Art in Australia,” No. 70,
Third Series, March, 1938.—5319.
To buy copy of The Valley of the
Giants by Peter B. Kyne.—s32o.
To buy copy of Kingdoms Come
and Go by J. Hodgson.—s32l.
Information Sought
What are kitchen-middens?
They are large mounds, or refuse-
heaps, marking the sites of prehistoric
villages. Distinctive features of the
middens are stone hearths. They
contain large quantities of fossil
remains of edible molluscs, bones of
birds, animals and fishes, fragments
of implements, etc. They exist in the
largest numbers on the east coast of
Denmark and on the coasts of Scot-
land, Ireland and England. They
belong to the early Neolithic Age.
* * * *
(1) Who was 1 the first Australian
killed in World War I? (2) On
Gallipoli? (3) In France?
(1) Able-Seaman Williams, of the
Naval Reserve N. and M.E.F., who
was mortally wounded on the
Bitapaka-road in the advance from
Kabakaul against Kokopo (then
Herbertshohe) and Rabaul, September
11, 1914. (2) Capt. Annear, who was
shot in the head on the plateau above
Ari Burnu Knoll. (3) First recorded
are Sgt. Robinson, Bdr. Klintworth
and Gnr. Morgan, killed in action in
front of Mont St. Eloi, March 15,
1916.
* * * *
(1) Who wrote the lines on the
Henry Kendall Memorial on the
Sydney-Newcastle road near Gosford ?
(2) What are they?
(1) Kendall himself. (2) They
read; —
There was a rock-pool in a glen,
Beyond Narara’s sands.
The mountains shut it in from men
In flowerful fairy lands ;
But once we found its dwelling-place —
The lovely and the lone—
And in a dream I stooped to trace
Our names upon a stone.
• * * *
How did the phrase ‘‘public enemy”
originate in America? Who were the
first holders of the title?
Among the anti-crime laws passed
by the 73rd Congress for the purpose
of extending and strengthening the
Federal police power was one which
authorised the Attorney-General to
offer a reward up to 25,000 dollars
for the capture of any person who
had been declared a “public enemy.”
The first person to be designated
“Public Enemy No. 1” was A 1
Capone. The next holder of the title
was Dillinger, who was killed by
Federal agents in Chicago in July,
1934.
* ♦ ♦ •
A few details concerning a bird
called the coot?
The coot ( Fulica atrd) belongs to a
subdivision of the rail family, and is
characterised by the possession of
webbed toes, each toe being separately
webbed as in the grebes. Coots, as
might be expected from the structure
of their feet, are more aquatic than
other rails, usually frequenting large
sheets of fresh water and obtaining
their food by diving. The coot is
black, with a white shield on the
forehead, and is found from Australia
to Europe.
Brief Answers
S.C.M.: “Hoodman blind” is an
old name for the game “blind-man’s
buff.” Montague Grover’s poem
suggests that the men who work in
the darkness below decks (such as
engineers and stokers) are just as
necessary in a battle as the men on
deck, though they do not get as much
credit... . W.K.: The calico should
be stretched over a frame as can-
vases are done, or over plywood or
stout cardboard, and stitched across
the back. It can then be given a coat
or two of artists’ flake-white, well
rubbed in with a stiff brush; allow
to dry well. A coating of raw linseed-
oil is another preparation: a small
quantity of gold size should be added
as a drier. The flake-white method
is probably the most reliable. Em-
broidery linen makes a better job
than calico M.H.McF.: Assuming
that the inquiry relates to a lump-
sum payment made by the Siamese
Government in final settlement of
civilian war-damage claims outstand-
ing under the Peace Agreement with
that country, the replies to the ques-
tions asked are: (1) £5tg.556,626.
(2) £5tg.554,943. (3) Nil. (4) Ex-
penses incurred by the Australian
Government in connection with the
assessment of claims amounted to
£stg.l6B3 (i.e., the difference between
1 and 2 above) S.D.: Jack Carroll
beat A 1 Burke for the Australian
welterweight championship in 1928,
and lost it later that year, on a foul,
to Charlie Purdy. Carroll regained
this title in 1933, when he k.o.’d
Billy Jones, and remained unbeaten
for the championship until he retired
in 1938... .C.A.J.R.: Write Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney R.R.: (1) The head
and body of the long-snouted honey-
mouse are 3in. long; the tail 4in.
The short, coarse fur is grey above,
striped with black or brown, and
yellowish-white below. The head is
long and narrow, with an elongated
muzzle. (2) South-western Australia.
(3J Chiefly honey and soft-bodied
insects 8.H.: “How M’Dougal
Topped the Score” was written by
Thos. E. Spencer, and appeared in
The Bulletin Reciter.... K.B.: Write
D. Raymond, numismatist, 128
Bathurst-street, Sydney J.W.P.:
See article “Growing Pyrethrum” in
The Bulletin of October 31, 1951.
....T.M.N.: F. J. McLeod’s
Womba; An Aboriginal Stockboy
was published by Georgian House,
431 Bourke-street, Melbourne, and
was reviewed in The Bulletin of
January 16, 1952 R.H.: (1) and
(2) The Registrar, Pensions Tribunal,
30 Mary-street, Brisbane. (3) The
current pension rates are: mine-
worker, £3 17s. 6d. per week; addi-
tion in respect of dependent wife or
female dependant, £3 2s. 6d. per
week; addition in respect of eaeh
dependent child, 10s. per week;
widow or female dependant of de-
ceased mineworker, £3 2s. 6d. per
week.... W.A.: Turner’s “Dunstan-
borough Castle” was presented to the
Victorian National Gallery by the
Duke of Westminster in 1888, and is
at present valued at £6OOO. “Walton
Bridges” was purchased from the Earl
of Essex by the Felton Bequest in
1920 for £7250. Its present value is
hard to say, but it would be con-
siderably greater... .J.P.F.: The
Nationalist party was formed from
the pro-conscription section of the
Labor party and the Liberal party.
The leaders of the parties forming
the coalition were Holman and Wade.
The Premier of the new party was
Holman and the leader of the
Opposition John Storey... .D.G.C.:
Eye exercises may be prescribed.
Weakness of controlling muscles
is not necessarily a disease. See
ophthalmic surgeon or your doctor.
Particulars (from Institute of
Optometrists, 28 Bond-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary:
F.H.F.: “Out in the Suburbs” is
out in the outer... .J.S.: A conven-
tional pretty piece R.A.S.: Thank
heavens 1 We will not be there to
see you G.E.L.: We agree that
“That old sea-dog has had his day.”
....F.H.; Maybe one should not be
surprised at a “peculiar expression of
cynicism on the upturned mouth of
the skeleton” A.W.: Anecdotage.
E.V.H.; Nice, but slight....
W.R.: Before you write a series you
should write one good one H.C.:
You’ve done better 1.D.: Your
“Willow Pattern Dish” story might
suit some other table... .E.McL.:
Try to avoid the standard cogs of
the short story—“To my astonish-
ment,” “ancient enemies,” “fulsome
compliments,” “hope rose high,” etc.
....V.: Something there, but not
enough K.R.R.: Not bad, but if
a boy is to have his feelings hurt in
a story it should be by intention,
not by accident D.O’N.: Not
ours G.R.W.: No more ghost-
stories till we get rid of one that’s
been haunting us H.W.: Your
cop is not a fair cop C.R.: An
amusing car-ride, hut it didn’t get
anywhere J.A.: It began well, but
why the boy should think the paper-
seller a mug and leave him was not
clear.


JOOHd
S-LROVSAI
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■
&**:■:■:* i
• -' v
-' *■*
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Piy. Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHfS" WIRE, WIRE NETTI NG, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MELBOURNE SHOW CATTLE
“Mr.”: Dairy breeds pro-
vided the bulk of Melbourne
Show cattle entries, being nearly
twice the combined total of beef
and dual-purpose breeds. Entries
in all classes and breeds were
1896, compared with 1976 in
1951. Combined dairy breeds
fielded 1220 head, the beeves
403 and dual-purpose 273.
Beef Shorthorns and Polled
Herefords were outstanding. The
Shorthorn showing was the best
seen at Melbourne Royal for
years. Champion bull, Lithgow
and Ross’s Dauntless Bellbird,
an 18-months-old red roan, also
won the junior championship.
Senior reserve bull, two-year-old
Kelso Gift Master from G.
Starritt’s Kelso Park (Vic.), ran
Dauntless close. Champion cow,
Fulham Grace, is a two-year-
old from Alberni Bros.’ Fulham
Grange (Vic.). She was Mel-
bourne Royal junior champion
last year. Reserve went to Frank
Hood, Albury (N.S.W.), with a
nice two-year-old roan, Kywanna
Broadhooks Rose 2nd.
Polled Herefords made an ex-
cellent showing. Wantabadgery
Joe, a 14-months-old bull, won
junior and senior championships.
He is by Milton Joe, and was
bred by Wantabadgery East Pas-
toral Co., Wagga (N.S.W.). Re-
serve went to J. A. Hanson's
15-months-old The Braes Briga-
doon. Not so good aft as the
champion, he is an excellent rep-
resentative of the breed and
more will be heard of him. Top
cow, Inveresk Novelty 3rd, was
from the Springfield stud of
E. H. and S. T. Hawkins, Finley
(N.S.W.). She is a beautifully
fleshed two-year-old, carrying
herself like an aristocrat.
R. L. McEachern’s Ardno
Queenie Ist took both the senior
reserve and junior cow champion-
ships. A year younger to the
day than the champion, this 15-
months-old heifer has a promis-
ing show future.
Herefords were not quite up
to the standard of recent years.
Mrs. Biddlecombe, Golf Hill
(Vic.), was most successful, her
entries taking four of the eight
major awards. J. R. Allen, Mort-
lake (Vic.), exhibited the top bull,
South Boorook Livingston, a
well-set-up yearling, stylish and
well-fleshed. Mrs. Biddlecombe’s
Golf Hill Highness, another
yearling, was in reserve. Both
were in the same order in the
junior championship. Top cow
was two-year-old Golf Hill
Marinda. The two-year old
Ardno Maritana (R. L. Mc-
Eachern, Strathdownie, Vic.)
took the reserve. The same
owners were successful in the
junior cow championships but in
reverse order.
Aberdeen-Angus disappointed
in both numbers and quality.
Tops were good, but entries
tailed off badly. The Queens-
land judge, G. W. Gill, was
mildly critical of the tail-setting
of some of the Victorian-bred
animals. Champion, a handsome
three-year-old, Puunyart Tartan,
came from J. C. Wilson’s
Gnotuk (Vic.) stud. The male
reserve, Terinallum Nero 2nd,
was bred by Terinallum Pastoral
Co., Pura Pura, and would have
given the champion a closer fight
but for a slight weakness about
the head. The top cows were a
more even lot than the bulls.
The champion, Terinallum Tura
4th, was from the same stud as
the reserve bull. A magnificent
three-year-old, there was no
demur when the judge awarded
her the ribbon. The same stud
was successful in the female re-
serve with Kahlua Thellette 3rd.
Dual-purpose Breeds
Dairy Shorthorns made an ex-
cellent showing. Aneight-year-old
imported bull, last year’s Mel-
bourne Royal winner, Churchill
Paradox, won the bull champion-
ship for Atkinson Bros., Swan
Hill (Vic.). A three-year-old,
Kelmscott Prelate, from Rivers-
lea stud (J- Muir & Sons) was in
reserve. Atkinsons also took the
cow championship with a nice
five-year-old of true milking
Shorthorn type. The 1951 female
champion, F. E. Selwyn Scott s
Yuulong Mabel 2nd, was the
reserve.
In overall quality Red Polls
were disappointing. For both
the champion and the reserve
bull the judge had to select from
the aged class, W. S. Craig’s
Bundaleer Bombproof gaining by
a slight margin from Yalandro
Semi, a six-year-old from W. B.
and A. D. Mune’s Mundalla
(S.A.) stud. Top cow, Plymouth
Winly, from W. G. J. Beer and
Sons’ Nanneella South (Vic.)
farm, and reserve, A. R. Beggs’s
Niawanda Woodbine, also came
from the aged group, which did
not reflect overmuch credit on
the juniors.
Dairy Breeds
Jerseys were well represented.
Belgonia blood was again in evi-
dence, P. J. Maloney and Son,
Tongala (Vic.), taking the cow
championship and owning the
sire of the reserve bull.
Champion of the breed was F. J
“You belong out here ?”
Myers’s bull, Newlands Gold
Standard, a handsome three-
year-old, bred by P. A. Woodyer.
Belgonia Peggy 18th’s Aim was
in reserve. This bull, owned
by J. P. Evans, Oxley Flats (Vic.),
and bred by P. J. Maloney, was
in reserve last year. Maloney
also won this year’s female
championship with his five-year-
old imported cow, Rush’s Pan-
cake. J. Anderson and Son’s
King’s Vale Resell a 102nd was
in reserve.
A.I.S. were strong, but many
N.S.W. breeders were again
absent. The Victorian breeders,
J. M. Newton and Sons,
Whorouly (Vic.), repeated their
success this year in the bull
championship with their 1951
Melbourne Royal winner Park-
view Baldwin. A. E. Story’s five-
year-old Hillview Ajax filled
second place. The Newtons also
won the female championship
with Ovensdale Beauty 23rd, a
cow sired by this year’s top bull.
Bolt Bros., Dingwall (Vic.), were
in reserve with Parkview Stately
4 th.
Ayrshires made an attractive
showing. Glengowrie blood
again predominated. The-aged
bull, Glengowrie Baron Again,
was untroubled to take his third
successive Melbourne Show
championship, with another from
the same stud, two-year-old
Glengowrie Flash Jamie, in re-
serve. N. J. Vagg, Pi non Yal-
loak (Vic.), was successful in the
female championship with a
nicely-marked true-to-type cow,
Glengowrie Marana 2nd. Female
reserve went to C. H. Hawkins
and Sons’ The Valley Peggy 3rd.
Friesians were up in quality.
J. V. Platfuss, Finley (N.S.W.),
was this year’s most successful
exhibitor in the breed, fielding
top cow and both champion and
reserve males. The champion
bull, Galaview Elect, is an eight-
year-old by Ingolston Statesman.
The runner-up, his herd-mate,
Indiana Netherland Julian, is an
attractive two-year-old. The
champion cow, Galaview Mar-
garet (also 1951 winner), came
from the five-year-old (in milk)
class and led from R. A. Smith’s
Totara Repeater Dimple.
Guernseys were good to look
upon. Yarraview blood was again
to the fore, this time producing
the bull champion, Yarraview
Illustrious 2nd. R. G. Watson
exhibited the reserve, Moongi
Morning Star, a four-year-old
bred by E. E. Cooke. The im-
portation, Le Hamel Dainty,
owned by Dr. F. G. Stephens, led
the females, with C. F. Moore’s
Rhondda Danae in reserve.
Cattle Crosses
“C, Punch”: H. Gordon
Munro, who runs the Booroo-
mooka Aberdeen-Angus stud at
Bingara (N.S.W.), says that in
Scotland cross-breeding of Aber-
deen Angus Shorthorns was
extensively practised, and scien-
tists had stated that the progeny
had a hybrid vigor similar to
that which results in other
fields of cross-breeding.
Aberdeen-Angus were very
prepotent, and were noted for
the amount and quality of the
fleshing in the hindquarters,
from which the choicest cuts of
beef came. They were energetic
and hardy, and particularly
suited as foragers in hilly and
mountainous country.
In the southern American
States cross-breeding to produce
a hornless hybrid was done by
mating Aberdeen-Angus with
Brahman cattle, and a polled
cross-bred type had now been
fixed. This was the Brangus,
which rivalled the horned Short-
horn-Brahman (or Santa Ger-
trudis) type for use in tropical
and semi-tropical areas.
“I can see no reason why
Australians cannot quickly
evolve, if they so wish, a suit-
able Angus-Brahman cross for
Australia’s northern areas if it
is thought the Brahman influ-
ence is beneficial because of its
resistance to tick, buffalo-fly and
other animal pests in the far
north,” said Munro.
Box-trees
“Breck”: Australian box-trees
are among the world’s best
honey-yielders, and supply good
posts and building-timber.
For quality and quantity of
nectar the yellow-box ( E. tnel-
liodera) is king. Farmers not
interested in honey should grow
yellow-box to help those who
are. In return they get good
shade for stock and pollination
of their crops by bees.
Next-best is the white-box
(E. albens), which keeps bees
busy from March to May. On
land being cleared this species is
worth saving. It’s a fine orna-
mental tree. Fuzzy- or apple-
box ( E. conicd) flowers pro-
fusely. Red-box (£. poly ant he-
rnos) may not be a good honey-
producer, but when it blossoms
in early spring the bees are
stimulated and set about brood-
rearing. Another good stimula-
tor is the flooded-box C E . bi-
color). It has one very bad
habit: patchy flowering—some
trees blossom this year, some
next.
To grow box-trees from seed,
collect the gumnuts when they
are dry-brown and place in a
warm spot till the seed spills
out. Sow in seed-boxes and
transfer to pots when the second
set of leaves appears. Plant out
in paddocks when 18in. to 2ft.
high and provide strong guards
against stock and rabbits.
Alluvials and loamy soils suit
most box-trees.
Fight Against Brucellosis
“W.C,”: Twelve nations in
Europe and America are pool-
ing their knowledge to fight
brucellosis (contagious abortion),
a disease of both livestock and
humans. Most serious effects
are loss of beef or milk-produc-
tion and the breaking of pure-
bred lines.
A blood-agglutination test is
required to detect brucellosis in
stock, though victims are re-
garded as incurable. Detection,
however, means that infected
stock can be destroyed to pre-
vent spread of the disease.
The international organisa-
tion hopes to educate farmers
in preventive measures. A
special vaccine developed in the
U.S.A. is claimed to give a two-
to three-year immunity when
injected into calves at six or
eight months old. It is the only
vaccine out of many that has
proved at all effective in C.A.
prevention.
N.S.W. Wheat Contests
“B. Cubbin”: Sydney R.A.S.
has limited the N.S.W. wheat
championships to three divisions
—north, west and central slopes
—this year, because of seasonal
vagaries. It hopes to con-
duct field days in the other parts
of the wheatbelt. It’s the first
time in 36 years that all wheat
districts haven’t been in the con-
tests.
The field days will be held in
co-operation with agricultural
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The sun lost its spots a week or so ago, which left only
cyclical indications for long-range forecasting. The cycles
indicated moderate storms and warmer weather, with normal
spring rains. Some irregularities of the spring weather this
year may indicate one of those changes in the cycles
which repeatedly face the forecaster. This will be carefully
watched.


"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
fg
PHE.BX.BO
and
from
THE WONDERFUL A G A
MODEL CB.
hf
V.
Imagine a Cooker that is almost automatic, and
has two big hot-plates and two capacious ovens.
This amazing Cooker burns coke, yet is smokeless
and fumeless, as clean as a china-plate. It is also
superbly insulated, to keep your kitchen cool, and
it provides an ample hot water service for all kitchen
needs plus 3 hot baths a day! Comfort, ease, and
simplicity of use—all these are yours with the Aga
(Model C. 8.), in addition to guaranteed fuel
economy!
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga Is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
Y THE
AGA
S. COOKER >
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
[Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for the
AGA COOKER and BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO>-
LEYIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES ______ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 BourKe Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Stretrt, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA ______ Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ _A. G. WEBSTER & Sons ltd., Hobart
SB
VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870. After Hours, BJ 1957.
S£
in
A
■y*
%
f/
m
i
I
years ago
Forty years ago the Commonwealth Bank
opened its first branch to you, your
neighbours and your friends. Since then
the Bank—built on the firm foundations
of the money and confidence of the people
of Australia—has grown until today it
ranks among the largest and strongest in
the world.
The Commonwealth Bank is owned by you.
It operates in your interests. Its profits
are indirectly returned to you.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
“gW (Uf"
C 58.27-82
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
ghf
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
( PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ii
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple Instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY.LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
societies and field officers of the
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture. The conditions of judg-
ing in north and west are sub-
stantially the' same as in previous
years. A new condition is that
unnamed varieties of wheat
aren’t eligible for the cham-
pionships.
The society expects that dis-
trict growers wifi attend the
judging of crops in their areas
—a good idea —and local show
secretaries and competitors will
supply the dates of judging.
Mules Operation
“Outback”: Trials are being
conducted on Manfred station,
Longreach (C.Q.), to ascertain
the advantage, if any, of the
“radical” Mules operation, as
more generally practised in parts
of New South Wales, and the
“modified” operation recom-
mended in Queensland.
The 1369 sheep used in the
trials have been split into three
groups—3oo untreated controls ;
555 given the modified treatment
and 514 the radical treatment.
In the latter treatment the cuts
are much more extensive.
The trials were started in
February, and while there has
been insufficient fly activity for
an efficient test, it is significant
that, whereas eight of the 300
control sheep have been struck,
only one of the 555 given the
modified treatment has been
so affected, and there has been
no strike in the 514 “radicals.”
Waste
“Brig. Sec.”: Every year over
a million sheep-pelts are left to
rot on farms. I had hoped that
New Australians would intro-
duce ideas on how to turn them
to use, but the waste goes on.
From shearing - time until
skins are quarter-woolled
graziers don’t bother to market
them —they would only be
offered Is. to Is. 6d., and that
doesn’t pay.
Basil readily take*! dyes, and is
ideal for upholstering furniture,
motor-vehicles and church pews.
It is a shocking commentary on
Australian lack of enterprise
that, although over 20 million
sheep and lambs are slaughtered
or die of natural deaths each
year, basil is unobtainable, I
cannot get a piece 2ft. square to
pad a few knapsack containers
for a bushfire brigade.
Native Shrubs
“Pop’s Gal”: Now is the
time to plant native shrubs and
small trees. Most are easily
grown from seed.
Use 6in. pots crocked at the
bottom. Almost fill the pot with
sandy loam which is free from
manure. Press firmly and water
thoroughly. Plant the seed on
the surface. Cover lightly with
fine soil.
The pots should then be
buried to within an inch of the
top in a sheltered part of the
garden. Keep the soil damp.
The seeds are slow to germinate,
taking several weeks before they
show through.
Hints for the Farm
“Big Billy”; When pigs have
reached reasonably good condi-
tion, one feed a day will be suffi-
cient if they have good pasture
and drinking water. If they
have, the evening is the best
time to feed them.
“Silento”: Don’t breed from
gilts until they are eight months
or older, because they are not
sexually mature until then. The
first heat period is around 6j
months of age, and then about
every 21 days. Delay mating
until the fourth or fifth heat
period and you will get better
fitters.
“Deejay”: Apropos of start-
ing turkey poults to eat (“South,”
B. 10/9/’52), I find the easiest
plan is to put two or three
ordinary fowl chicks in each
batch of turkeys. The chicks
teach the poults to eat and
drink in record time.
“Otnim”: Keep the air intake
on the tractor clean and free of
bends and dents. For every gal-
lon of fuel used approximately
8000 gallons of air must be
furnished to support the com-
bustion. Restricted air-intake
means more fuel used for less
power.
“Tyco”: Tomatoes planted
obliquely and shallowly, in-
stead of vertically and deeply,
fruit earlier and yield better.
This is because the soil is
warmest closest to the surface
in spring and plants with their
roots in that part start growing,
whereas deeply-planted roots
must wait for the warmth to get
down.
“C.A.A.”: The standard spray
for thrips (nicotine-sulphate
solution, Ifl. oz. to 4gal. of
water, plus 2oz. of soft soap) is
more effective if 1 per cent, of
summer oil emulsion is added.
Make a second application 14
days later to destroy young
thrips which may have been
missed by the first spray.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Itinerant Pests
Country show societies and legitimate
showmen are tired of the undesirables
who attend agricultural shows. These
parasites move with and sometimes work
for legitimate showmen. They own noth-
ing, but usually erect some ramshackle
stand which serves as a blind. They
follow the shows from year to year, each
specialising in his own particular deviltry.
If statistics were compiled it would be
found that a marked crime-wave
synchronises with country show weeks.
During the Newcastle show a Press report
stated that 40 men known to “consort-
ing” police were on the showground.
Legitimate showmen are infuriated
about these itinerant pests, but are afraid
to take any action. To “cry cops” could
earn for the informer a night-time bash-
ing or a squirt of acid over a valuable
tent. Most showmen camp on the show-
grounds at night, so they remain silent.
In New Zealand, before a showman
operates, he must produce a special
permit on demand. Should he be involved
in any unsavory incident a report goes to
Auckland headquarters. Well-known
showmen report that the scheme is fast
ridding New Zealand showgrounds of
undesirables,
Queensland has a police-permit system,
but it does not effectively supervise
employees of showmen —more often than
not the main offenders. In N. S. Wales the
Temporary Structure Licence, issued by
the Chief Secretary’s Department, assures
a degree of protection for the public, but
is useless as a means of coping with
criminals. A State-wide drive by police
is costly and ineffective. It would merely
rout offenders, who would scurry across
the borders to operate in fresh pastures.
That was particularly noticeable during
the blitz by Victorian police in 1946-47.
What is urgently needed is a law
demanding that travelling showmen shall
apply for a special licence, which could
be issued under the strict supervision of
a competent police-officer. The fact that
bogus showmen fear introduction of a
permit-system is proof of its potentialities.
Before legislation could be introduced,
however, a demand from some section of
the community would be necessary.
Every country resident should seek, either
through his local member or agricultural
association, some action in support of a
licence-system for showmen which would
give police an effective and economical
w:apon for dealing with these pests.—
Ground Steward (N.S.W.).
More Production
Recently the representative of a main-
land firm visiting Tasmania said business
was very satisfactory, although his firm
had reduced its staff 10 per cent, three
months ago, “Strange thing,” he added,
“is that our production figures for the
last month, with a 90 per cent, staff, were
the same as when we employed a full
staff.”
Not so strange, perhaps. It rather indi-
cates that when jobs are worth hanging
on to production is speeded-up, and that
we are getting near something like a fair
day’s work for a fair day’s pay. —
Obelist (Tas.).
Afforestation
In the western district of Victoria, once
the home of massive redgum forests, the
forestry position is steadily deteriorating.
The only forests of value now remaining,
apart from the Heytesbury and Otway
areas in the south-west, are 10,000 acres
of redgum and 15,000 acres of top-quality
stringybark near the Grampians. In the
Rocklands-dam project 11,000 acres of
redgum forest were lost, and no steps
have been taken to restore the balance.
Another deplorable feature is that no
market was found for a large quantity of
this forest.
The greatest afforestation loss in the
submersion of country in the Rocklands
scheme was not in mature timber, but in
young forests which in 10 or 15 years
would have been producing millable
wood.
More intensive afforestation schemes
need to be undertaken by the Forests
Commission, and there should be relaxa-
tion of the rigid policy in regard to areas
jinder its control. For instance, in the
country near the S.A. border there are
thousands of acres of commission-land
now growing poor, unmarketable timber.
But this land is being withheld from settle-
ment. It would be more consistent and
progressive for the commission to
abandon these areas and concentrate its
afforestation plans in the redgum
country.
There is also scope for tree-planting
for wind-breaks, beautification and soil-,
protection along our main roads. It seems
incongruous to overseas eyes that more
advantage is not taken of the space
afforded by our three-chains roads to
replace low shrubs with trees. The
Country Roads Board is responsible
here and has. done some planting, but
lack of funds is likely to limit its
activity.— Plain Australian (Vic.),
Our Bureaucrat Masters
Any financier who resorted to methods
commonly used by Government concerns
would probably finish up in jail—if he
weren’t torn to pieces by shareholders
first.
Government - owned or -sponsored
bodies can, by authority, reef money off
the public irrespective of what service
they give, if, indeed, they give any. The
public has no say or supervision. The
administration operating the service is
beyond public reach, and remains the sole
arbiter, both as to quality and quantity
of service given and the amount it may
demand for it.
Contrast that with the case of a pfivate-
enterprise concern providing a public
service. The gas companies, for instance,
are required by franchise to give a stated
service of stated quality at a stated price.
If they fail to do so they risk losing their
franchise. They are not free to raise their
prices as they like, but only by the consent
of the Government authority under which
they hold their franchise. If they show a
loss that is their own affair.
What does a Government - owned
concern do when it shows a loss?
Nothing, beyond helping itself to more of
the public’s cash. There is no fear of
sacking. Loss can follow loss, but the
management cheerfully remains. There
are no shareholders’ meetings to face be-
cause the shareholders (the public) cannot
enter behind the barrier of authority. Acts
and regulations, where the management
itself remains safely indifferent to
criticism or censure.
Next, consider those Government
authorities whose function is control
rather than service. These are by far
the worst offenders, because their actions
usually affect only a small number of
individuals at any one time and conse-
quently escape the notice necessary to
bring about a public outcry.
There is the N. S. Wales authority
which claims the., right to resume 1952
land on 1942 valuation. Another body
claims the authority to place an embargo
on any property it wishes, and to leave it
on for an indefinite period—years in some
cases —without actually resuming. Mean-
while the unfortunate owner is left with
the doubtful privilege of paying rates.
He cannot sell, lease, build on, or even
mortgage the property while the embargo
is in force.
Then there is the dictatorial classifica-
tion of property. The fact that this com-
pletely destroys its value for any purpose
other than that classified does not worry
anyone except the owner. He is debarred
even from any prospect of compensation.
The body in question blandly disclaims
any intention of resuming, unless in
very special circumstances.
Boards which claim to control one
form of production or another seem to
appear overnight. They descend on the
producer with what amounts to con-
fiscatory powers and compel him, under
threat of heavy penalty, to sell his pro-
duce only to or through them. Often
they levy a toll on him as well. Then,
having secured control, they usually
dictate the price the public must pay for
the goods, while the producer, in many
cases, is not allowed even to give away
any produce the board is not ready to
deal with. It must lie there and rot. That
happened with the Fruit Board.
The cause of all this misgovernment is
simply too much authority and no
personal responsibility. Governments
introduce measures without realising the
possible extent of their effects, and Oppo-
sition objections go unheeded if the Gov-
ernment has the numbers. Draftsmen
write into the text every possible power
and provision for contingencies, and
administrative officials work blindly
without discretion or consideration. No
one is responsible.
Until the public insists that all measures
introduced are subjected to closer public
and Parliamentary scrutiny, and that the
powers given to administration officials
are rigorously controlled, we shall always
be at the mercy of bureaucracy. — Pyott
Strom (N.S.W.).
No Scope for Economy?
The Prime Minister has stated that
there is not much scope for reduc-
ing administrative costs of the Common-
wealth Government. On the same day
the Victorian Premier said an economy
overhaul of the Victorian public
service was not considered necessary.
Yet the man in the street sees
waste and loafing by Government em-
ployees everywhere. If voters wrote to
their local members pointing out cases
of waste in the electorates the Ms.P.
would be amazed at the growth in their
mail.
There is plenty of scope for economy.
For a start, there should be a clean sweep
of all the useless controls which are
stifling the country and all the deadheads
who “police” and administer them —the
well-paid gentry who go round in cars to
see whether some little corner store is
not selling a cake of soap or packet of
cigarettes after hours. — Ardin (Vic.).
Closing Time
“Mullum” is probably thinking of the
comfortable and cordial atmosphere of
English inns when he talks of late-
closing (B. 23/4/’52). If Victorian
hotels provided similar amenities, later
closing might be worth considering now,
but not until the chairs, tables, space and
snacks are established.
As things stand at present, extended
hours on their own would not result in
more comfortable drinking; only longer
agony of jostling and struggling. The
first reform before we change drinking
hours should be the redesigning of hotels.
Another important item is alcoholic
content, which, with longer drinking
hours, should be cut from four per cent.
to two per cent. —approximately the same
as in England.
Despite “M.’s” assertion that the public
is enlightened, it is not. Many drinkers
would stick like limpets to the counter
until ejected at closing-time—whatever
that may be. Would that behavior
improve home-life or reduce the numbers
of drunks on the street? And what about
car-drivers stopping to wet the whistle at,
say, 9 p.m. or 10 p.m.?
This closing-time change must be
gradual. After all, drinking of alcoholic
beverages is not essential to maintain life.
It is merely a social habit giving a false
sense of relaxation to nerves, mind and
muscles.
Everyone who opposes changing hotel
closing-time is not a wowser, even though
it is popular to decry all who dare say a
word against unrestrained liquor con-
sumption. Toleration is one of the
greatest virtues. Only a few unreasonable
bigots advocate temperance for every-
body .—E. L. H. S. (Vic.).
The Bungarra Front
The bungarras will be laughing along
with “Ek Dum” (B. 10/9/’52) at Sydney
newspapers’ terror of invasion of our
north-west coast.
Far front being the “Achilles heel” of
the Commonwealth, the “empty north”
is a bastion against any considerable
armed force. This vast area is empty
because it can’t carry a population be-
yond the number necessary to work
sheep-stations of from half a million to
a million acres, plus those needed for
servicing a few ports.
As to living off the country: a platoon
would make short work of the kangaroos,
emus, wild turkeys and bungarras, which,
relatively plentiful in good seasons,
dwindle away in drought periods of from
five to seven years. Sheep and cattle
could be driven inland.
Anyone who talks of populating the
north arid north-west as a defence mea-
sure should ask how many permanent
settlers would be required for that pur-
pose, how long it would take to estab-
lish them and what they would use for
food and water?
Our north-west is essentially pastoral
county, which means that it is unsuit-
able for close-settlement. Gradually, by
building railways and by conservation of
water, it will be made to carry more
stock. But all that will take a long time
and cost a lot of money. Meanwhile
Australians in other parts of the country
need not have nightmares about an enemy
landing in strength on that inhospitable
coast.—G. Elburo (N.S.W.).
Kings and Culture
- Norman Lindsay is rather unfair to
several other English sovereigns in saying
that “the Stuarts were the only kings of
England who strove to encourage a civi-
lised concept of culture in its people”
(B. 6/8/’52). ~ . ;
At least three Plantagenets (Henry 111,
Edward 111 and Richard II) rank highly
as fosterers of culture, Indeed, Dr.
Montague James, in his Westminster
Abbey, went so far as to describe Henry
111 as “the greatest patron of the arts who
ever occupied the throne of England.”
In the reigns of Edward 111 and his suc-
cessor, Richard 11, there flourished bril-
liant schools of architecture, sculpture
and painting. In literature, too, that
period included Chaucer, Langland,
Gower and the anonymous author of
Pearl. A host of minor arts also reached
a high degree of excellence, and there
was fine achievement in music. Royal
patronage played an important part in
this development.
“Almost all the artists and architects
of the first rank, most of the poets and
writers, certainly the musicians, gold-
smiths, broiderers, cooks and others
were in direct dependence on the king,”
says John Harvey in Gothic England, a
survey of English medieval achievement
in the arts.
John of Gaunt, uncle of Richard 11,
was also a noted patron of art, architec-
ture and letters. j
Earlier still, the noblest of English
kings, Alfred, staunchly fostered culture,
besides being himself a scholar and writer
of talent and versatility.
Of sovereigns later than the Stuarts,
George IV has had the most outstanding
record in cultural matters. He was a
gerierous patron of architects, bought the
masterpieces of painting of the Dutch
school (now the property of Queen
Elizabeth II) and presented his father’s
library of 70,000 volumes to the British
Museum. It formed the basis of the
present magnificent British Museum
Library. George 111 and Albert, the
Prince Consort, also deserve honorable
mention. —Kanimbla (N.S.W.).


Outstanding Bank-notes
An interesting point arises out of the
recent theft of £2140 in Australian notes
from one of the trading banks, and the
subsequent destruction of them by fire —
the thief became panicky and burned
them. It meant, of course, a loss of that
amount by the trading bank and a gain
of the same amount by the Common-
wealth Bank, inasmuch as the notes never
will be presented. As there was no record
of the numbers, however, the notes
cannot be written off by the Common-
wealth Bank, and remain a liability—part
of the vast issue which at June 25, 1952,
stood at well over £302 million.
It is interesting that at June, 1952, the
trading banks’ total liability for unpre-
sented notes of their issue stood at
£157,703, though they have not been
banks of issue since 1911. From 1911
until 1945 they could have issued notes,
but a 10 per cent, tax made it unprofit-
able. The tax was intentionally prohibi-
tive. Since 1945 the issue of notes has
been illegal.
Some of the £157,703 will continue to
dribble in, bu| it’s a fair bet that the
great bulk of the notes still outstanding
will never be presented for payment be-
cause of loss and accidental destruction.
But the amount still remains a liability
of the trading banks and one that cannot
very well be got rid of because of the
remote possibility of the notes turning up.
Issue of notes, a profitable side of
trading-bank business, was brought to
an end when the Fisher Government
introduced the Australian note. These, at
first, were known disparagingly as
“Fisher’s flimsies”; not then justified,
inasmuch as they could be changed for
gold coin, but it seems to have some
point in these inflated days.
When the trading banks were issuing
their own notes these did not follow the
plainly severe design of the Bank of
England notes but were attractive speci-
mens of the engraver’s art. They were
signed by hand, involving a lot of work
which was often entrusted to “not-so-
busy” country branches. They, too,
could be changed for sovereigns.
I have often thought I would like to
relieve the trading banks entirely of their
outstanding liability of £157,703, on pay-
ment by them to me of, say, £20,000.
That sum, invested in a gilt-edged security,
would return sufficient in interest to look
after the very few notes which might
trickle in each year and still show me a
very nice profit. Whether I’d be regarded
as a good risk for the other £137,000 if
they ever did happen to be presented is
another story.
The Statute of Limitations does not
apply to such a liability as banknotes
once they are issued. They remain a
first charge on the bank’s assets. —Ceg
(Vic.). __
Railway Bookings
I doubt that the new marble booking-
office at Sydney’s Central station (B.
17/9/’52) will induce more people to
travel by train, but at least it should
offer better booking-facilities and quicker
service than are provided at the main
booking-office in Sydney’s Martin-place.
Conditions are so wicked there that
one would imagine the booking-arrange-
ments are deliberately designed to dis-
courage train-travel. There always seem
to be insufficient bookers on duty, and
the queue to each one is as long as a
war-time cigarette-queue. I can’t recall
ever getting away in under an hour, even
in so-called “off” periods.
Most of the delay appears to be caused
by the time the booker has to spend on
the phone while he fixes up seat- and car-
numbers. Surely it would speed up book-
ing if he had blocks of seat-numbers
ready at hand. Probably no more
mistakes would be made than at present
—in my experience the present method
has certainly not avoided the double-
booking of seats.
No doubt booking-offices in other States
are equally slow —I’ve waited for over an
hour in the Spencer-street office (Mel-
“Had a heavy night in the mess, and he’s tryin' to clear his head.”
bourne). Some quicker and more
efficient booking-system should be
devised, particularly as increasing
numbers of people are forsaking the rail-
ways for other means of travel. — Keima
(N.S.W.).
Roads and Accidents
The deplorable state of Sydney’s roads
is indirectly responsible for very many
car accidents. The car-driver, watching
for potholes, ruts, holes washed out beside
tramlines and swollen sections of the
road caused by the rain, cannot give as
much attention as he should to traffic
around him. If he does ignore the pot-
holes and devotes the whole of his atten-
tion to driving, he is likely to find him-
self with broken springs and axles, —
W.P.T. (N.S.W.).
Constitutions
The Australian Constitution, by its
Federal character, does provide a barrier
against revolutionary social and eco-
nomic changes without popular consent
(B. 3/9/’52), but it is not necessary for
a Constitution to be Federal to protect
the personal liberty and property of the
citizen.
True, the English Constitution, which
D. Empson (B. 30/7/’52) recommended
as a model for Australia to follow, lacks
such safeguards, but that is because they
were never made part of it, not because it
is unitary. England has an unwritten Con-
stitution. All the rights of the citizen are
vested in Parliament, which can abrogate
or suspend any at will. As one of
Attlee’s Ministers, Sir Hartley Shawcross,
put the matter: “Parliament is sovereign.
It can make laws. It could ordain that
all blue-eyed babies should be destroyed
at birth.”
This unlimited nature of the English
Parliament s powers has often been
praised by English writers on Constitu-
um 11 ” p P ctl( : e .because it allows “flexi-
bility —i.e., it is readily adapted to the
executive emergencies of the moment.
A wntten Constitution, on the other
hand, which prescribes a limit to Par-
hamentary sovereignty, and which is
interpreted by a judicature that can annul
laws held to conflict with it, is more or
less “rigid.” Bagehot stressed that point
when making his noted comparison (in
The English Constitution) between the
Constitutions of the U.S.A. and England.
When he wrote, however —in the mid-
19th century —England’s political circum-
stances were very different from today’s.
Parliament then was dominated by the
propertied classes, and there was also
virtually universal agreement in favor of
individual liberty and private ownership
of industry and property.
Today, with one of the two main
parties avowedly Socialist, the English
Constitution has become a potential
menace to freedom. An extremist
Premier with a docile following might
well be able to establish a totalitarian
regime without having to face the elec-
tors. Thoughtful Britons, therefore, are
coming to see merit in a written Consti-
tution which limits the powers of Parlia-
ment, even though it makes for some loss
in “flexibility.”
Citizens of some other countries with
unitary Constitutions are more happily
situated. Certain rights of the individual,
regarded as fundamental, have been in-
corporated in the framework of the Con-
stitution and cannot be overridden or
abolished at the whim of a temporary
Parliamentary majority. Belgium is a
case in point. That country’s Constitu-
tion, though unitary and, like England’s,
“based on ancient liberties, embodied in
venerable charters and centuries-old cus-
toms and understandings,” was “codified
into a clear, logical, modern document,
legible for all and almost insusceptible of
doubts.”
Thus a recasting of the Australian
Constitution to give far wider power to
the national Parliament would not pre-
sent a threat to freedom and to private
enterprise in industry provided care were
taken to write into it the necessary safe-
guards.
In a country as large as Australia there
would also have to be provincial legisla-
tures with, in the cause of efficiency, rea-
sonably wide authority. The cutting-up
of the present States into substantially
smaller units would also be desirable. The
effectiveness of the U.S. Senate—“per-
haps the most impressive and deeply-
rooted second chamber in the world”—
is largely related to the number of States
and their varied social and economic
character. Australia’s States are mainly
dominated by the big-city vote. — Morris
the Tinker (N.S.W.).
Fear and Driving
Motor-cyclists and motorists are
governed by fear. Fortunately, with
about 75 per cent, of them, it is a fear of
killing themselves and others, but in
about 25 per cent, it is merely fear of
the law. When there is no uniform in
sight they feel free to risk lives and
limbs.
One way of checking this homicidal
element would be by enrolling special
traffic constables with power to make
reports that would lead to charges being
laid. A second check would be to bring
in a continent-wide adoption of the
points system of driving-licences current
in some American States.
A motorist or motor-cyclist on firs
taking out a driving-licence is allotted 100
points. For every traffic offence in which
he is detected he loses a number of points
according to the gravity of his offence
and loses them irrevocably. Once he has
no points left he is automatically banned
from ever again holding a driving-licence
The fear of losing points that could
never be regained would be far more
effective in curbing the reckless and care-
less driver than the thought of a possible
fiver fine, which is generally forgotten
within a few pay-days.— Unga (S.A.).
No Middle Way
I can’t see anything coming of “Hist’s”
idea (B. 10/9/’52) of a third party de-
signed to appeal to Liberal and Labor
voters who have lost faith in their
respective parties. Political history in the
democracies shows a disposition to favor
two parties fighting a clear-cut issue—
Whig and Tory, Liberal and Conserva-
tive, Republican and Democrat, call
them what you will. A third party is
mainly ignored and seldom gets beyond
an inconsequential minority unless it
allies itself to either side, as our own
Country party has done.
Results of past elections reveal the
wreckage of attempted “middle-way”
bodies who thought they had the solution
to the present messy party fight. The
difficulties of placing fresh viewpoints,
however admirable, before a nation-wide
body of electors are tremendous. Adver-
tising costs alone are prohibitive to any
new party not backed by union funds or
other resources.
Anyway, most voters are firm in their
allegiance to one side or the other. A
swinging vote (at most 15 per cent.) seems
to decide most elections, and it is more
important for the present Government
to try to hold these odd votes than for
any new party to go after them. The
typical Labor voter will not vote for any
high-minded idealist unsanctioned by his
union. The only votes liable to be cap-
tured by a third party would be from
wavering Liberals. — Bamekaw (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 193
Across
I—Do1 —Do I dress the hair of an abo-
rigine when tending to coalesce?
(11)
7—Half a pint for baby. (3)
9—Ground articles have been
through this indisposition in the
heart of a Chinese dynasty. (7)
10— Sillier Dorothy has a row. (7)
11 — Ham territory gulf in one indefi-
nite article. (9)
12— A North Dakota conjunctive. (3)
14—Boy carelessly mentions fifty per
cent. (3)
16 —Ruminant’s fourth stomach pre-
sents a problem to a native
parent. (8)
18—Needle-case goes east with a
N.Z. bird. (4)
20— A dope in a pickle. (4)
21 — Distribute the cards about the
battle settlement which is fed
imp operly by two boys. (8)
22 Phoebus Rosevear. (3)
24 — Urge on a nickname for the
head in “The Housemaster.” (3)
25 — Coin chop I rearranged for a
Disney character. (9)
28 —Less merciful cutter. (7)
30 —That is among birds and vales.
(?)
31— Still town on the Macintyre River
is thus unmanned. (3)
32 They sing of the hair of an
Oriental detective. (11)
Down
1— They fight a hairdresser at the
insect’s place. (10)
2 Sap makes Mary fish, although
led badly at last. (5-6)
3 Ego competes with creepers. (5)
4 This youngster knows his A.B'.C.
element with a keynote for
Guido. (8)
5 Of what ocean is Mauritius “the
Star and Key”? (6)
6 He pulls out a one-time farm
vehicle. (9)
7 N.Z. bird. (3)
8— Hearty cookery is somewhat
sharp and sour to the taste of a
disreputable woman. (4)
13 —Garlands include two features on
a famous bicycle built for two.
(5-6)
15 —These keep showmen and poker-
players happy and rich. (4, 6)
17 —The lot and Eric about to go
symbolic. (9)
19 —Then sing during the week. (8)
23' —Home of Greek fortitude has a
role in South Australia. (6)
26 — Famous singer is to produce what
may be he(a)rd. (5)
27 — A secret agent is infested by
snakes. (4)
29 —Five at the tank. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 192


BY POPULAR CHOICE
THE AWARD GOES TO
STAMINA
PRIZE WINNER IN THE
WORLD OF MEN'S WEAR
IDEAL FOR EVERY WEAR
EVERYWHERE
y.
"4
m
9
V
s
Hi
i
;'y^3,JW:
m
■:'S:
s®
V
■
*r
iili
P/
. .
m
V3i:
.
'-x : ■
«
Jf
>: : : : x‘x
m
■ |
illHi
Eft*
H
lllpp;
U
mm
:
ESI
ass
SIS®
r- "
r :
■ ■ ■■ ■'■;.■ :
: :
Star i
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM A SPECIAL PURE WOOL CRUSADER CLOTH
ASK
FOR
