

1
Send o gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address m the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E,
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64,
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
G.P.O.
G.P.O.
The Bulletin
KYLIE TENNANT SHORT STORY
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 73 —No. 3791
Wednesday, October 8, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
KING'S COLLEGE CHAPEL, A GEM IN A LOVELY SETTING
ONE of England’s great architectural masterpieces is King s College Chapel
in the university town of Cambridge. It was founded by Henry VI i
the latter half of the fifteenth century, and both within and without its
description is beyond superlatives Huge sums of r^°’ ie [.^f e s^ n was n also
construction of this superb chapel by Henry VI (U2M 4 71), who wa £ a
the founder of Eton, the most famous public school in England. Kings
College/adjoining the Chapel, was built in order that Eton boys could be
sent there to complete their education.
In size the Chapel has the dimensions of a Cathedral, being 291 feet long,
75 feet high, and its vaulted roof spans a distance of 40 feet. The inteilor
walls are richly ornamented with the TudOr rose, numerous coats-of-arras,
nortcullises and other heraldic devices. Outstanding features are the twenty-
five magnificent stained-glass windows dating from the early sixteenth century,
the finest period of glass painting, and the richly decorated screen and stalls,
dating from 1774. The interior is both bold and simple, and so perfect is
the design in every detail that its grandeur inspired three sonnets by
W ° r From rtl this Chapel on Christmas Eve is broadcast each year a Carol
Service which is heard throughout the world, and to it have journeyed visitors
from distant countries to hear its renowned choral and organ music.
Amongst the many famous members of King’s College are oir Robert
Walpole, Rupert Brooke and Lord Keynes, the economist.
From the ancient walls of King’s College and its Chapel green lawns
slope to the River Cam, which winds its placid way through a chain of
wardens and under many graceful bridges, completing the rare beauty ot the
“Backs,” that pleasant region behind the Colleges.


Learn
sdfsdf
Eggma
Write now for Stott's FREE' literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’
Courses on
HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.’
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
'CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation. *
My Name
Address
(5.8.252)
Age
BOOK
Of
THE
MONTH
Traitor or Saint ?
MARTIN MERRIEDEW
by MARY BORDEN
A new novel with a drama of great intensity! The
central character, an idealist, of outstanding brilliance,
is involved in a conflict between his duty to his coun-
and his conscience. “Mary Borden manages to
maintain an atmosphere of astonishing suspense
throughout her story . . . Martin Merriedew was a
traitor, a madman or perhaps wiser than most of us.”
•—Daily Despatch
At all Booksellers. HEINEMANN
The Red Page
A DESCANT ON MORLEY
I A , Pl f ILOM r A ™ ES Junior: Ah, Master
Morley, I have been dozing over your
f lame and Easie Introduction to Practiced
Musicke, edited for the modern reader
from the text of the first edition of 1597
oy k. Alec Harman, with a foreword by
Thurston Dart, and published by Dent,
but, as you ask your pupil, Philomathes,
at your first meeting, “What business
hath driven you to this end of the town?”
Thomas Morley ; Good master Philo-
mathes, you were dozing over my work.
You admit it. I would know why.
Phil: I like to keep by me a few
works that completely exhaust their sub-
ject, full of appendices, annotations, and
comparative readings, like the Nott
edition of Surrey’s and Wyatt’s poems,
great volumes that can rest comfortably
only on a table, with enormous intro-
ductions, and appendices of almost every
scrap of paper that was ever scrawled
upon by the authors; with biographies
3f the authors, histories of their families,
letters to them in Latin from
Henry VlH—more than I could ever
mderstand or digest. How pleasant it is
o doze over these, knowing that the
object is m good hands! Of such is
r our Plains and Easie.
Mor: You flatter me with your
ongue, and murder me with your eyes
Jeep sound. Master Philomathes!
)oubly might I have said in my fore-
yr° U d “ To the Courteous
.eader If I had before I began it
nagmed half the pains and labor which
cost me, I would sooner have been
srsuaded to anything than to have taken
i hand such a tedious piece of work like
ato a great sea, which the further 1
itered into the more I saw before me
ipassed, so that at length, despairing
er to make an end (seeing that grow
1 big in my hands which I thought to
ive shut up in two or three sheets of
‘per) I laid it aside in full determina-
m to have proceeded no further, but
off as shamefully as it
is foolishly begun.” Would I had done
Phil; Soft, soft, master. You are not
appreciated. You should hear the
mmentators’ praise of your learning
your immense erudition on such
;endary twangs as the note Proslam-
nomene, the note Parhypate hypaton,
d the note Trite synezeugmenon: for
u summed up a huge body of the music
past times, at a time when music was
1 as black an art as medicine is today.
Tor; Come, this is better! A little
re, and I may forgive you.
’hie ; They praise your musical ex-
ples, the excellence and charm of your
strative songs, and especially the bril-
ce of your innumerable examples in
second part, on Counterpoint, all
ked out on the one plainsong theme.
[or : They do? There are some, then
do not doze!
ml: And they envy you your pupil
omathes Senior. So do I. For
he tells you early in the book
he is hke a pot with a wide mouth
receiyeth quickly and letteth out as
kly, he has only to take one look at
instrument of torture you call “A
e containing the value of every note
—warding to the value of the Moodes or
signes, before saying, “This is easy and
very profitable,” etc. I never saw any-
one so quick on the uptake.
man° R * no * * n a mirror, young
Phil: But to hold in one’s hand a
treatise on music by the man who set
me only Shakspeare song published in
Shakspeares lifetime—to meet the man
who set “It Was a Lover and his Lass”
—that is something!
Mor ; A trifle. A trifle.
Phil; And even to. me, sir, your
diagram of the Gam, or system of scales
is enlightening. By our modern Gam, we
can construct a scale from any note on
the keyboard, black or white, in which
tones and semitones follow each other
m the same order: we have maior
-unto S of la ,h Ve T iorS “”So r S-
scalp? h L these head ings we have
scales that are the same in construction
to vof f‘‘ Ched K° n di£ferent note™ Bu”
to U I7R? Mi, Fa nn sSf and
Sotel only °you th ° U 'i ?<^° n °n *
different intervals according to the note
S sou g „‘l T th - That eWs much
that sounds strange in your music.
Mor; Scales? Major? Minor*! What
r. n c ? these ,e ™ s? «°u gh , w y h o^
Phil: He’was an excellent player of
I,?? 18 u nd the Pianoforte, Master Morley •
but who can teach him who knows all?’
Some years ago, Mr. Joseph Post offered
me a conductor’s score in a radio control
? ? tudlo > and turned away in
dismay when he saw that I was folio win a
whereof °L“ F d USt " l T° pages ahead oC
mom Was
then f R * Faugh! Y °u are a music-critic
Ah, what a genius I had then
Master Morley; I evfn ZrLd l Ifffie
No^vadav? 1 ? ni ntlclsln g performances.
~ wad ays I still try to understand. The
Moods and Prolations by which vou
measured time, for instance; your Great
Mood Perfect, your Less Mood Imperfect
your More or Less Prolations,
timS e ? Ua e ? sometlmes three and some-
TrinL, tW n !f er , notes; y° ur Dupla,
Jy la > Quadrupla, Sesquialtera and
Sesqmtertia: all these, by which you gave
te.Jp^ Bdi 8 di prop ? rtlons t 0 a set of Sand
teiled-diamonds wriggling like tadpoles on
.five unbarred lines stretching to infinity
PUn€d !! me - sense Hk * ™
mcantation of gipsy abracadabra. But
ZT m f ns y° u wrote your music to
It Was a Lover and his Lass” ; and by
these means you achieved that exquisite
change of time at the words, “The only
WariLr^ tlme; ’ that 80 deli^hted
Warlock in your setting of Shakspeare’s
Mor: That potboiling air again!
PmL: Ah, you should see Peter
S l s c ° m ™ e . nt^ on it in his little
English Ay re. and his wrath
hr LV h ? Se u W £° pnnt it with the little
break of rhythm ironed-out! And here
hpft Uri ° US Warlock says that the
scrfnt o? y ab n- 1° scilolars is a manu-
script of 1639, which may or may not be
reliable: the world’s only copy of the
°nfT a k m c y ° Ur First Book °f Airs or
Little Short Songs to sing and play to the
Lute with the Bass Viol, printed in 1600
is, he says writing in 1926, in “the hands
or a rich American, who guards it from
all eyes with miserable jealousy in a New
j. orK cellar.
, r M . oa: What good could come of
Virginia plantations? But you make a
great song-and-dance of a little short
song. Master Philomathes. I wrote it to
please Will—an excellent poet, but a poet,
l spoke to him of sharps and flats: out
from the other end of his mind it came
mat a lark sings out of tune! He put it
m a play. In another play he wrote of
the music of the spheres—l had showed
him a diagram of a planetary Gam in
Robert de Handlo’s book, in which the
notes are named Terra, Luna, Mercurius,
Venus, Sol, Jupiter, etc., from lower G
ut to Dla sol re. Not music, not philo-
sopliy and not his. But he took words
and ideas from books as he would take
clothes from a theatrical wardrobe ; when
he wore them, they looked well; the
points of a horse from a book on horses
a portrait of Cleopatra from North’s
Plutarch and a sky of singing stars from
Robert de Handlo—he who knew little
or nothing of horses, Egypt or
astronomy, and little more of music than
you do.
Phil: We take what we want from
others according to our need and accord-
ing to our ability. Master Morley; and
if I take of all your work your little short
song, as you call it, it is because Shak-
speare wrote the words, and you set them
to music according to your “Rules to be
observed in Dittying,” at the end of your
Third Part, Treating of Composing or
Setting of Songs”—where you say to
dispose your music according to the
nature of the words”; and, having gone
into this matter, where you say “We must
have a care so to apply the notes to the
words as in singing there be no barbarism
committed.” This was something the
masters of your time understood, none
better.
~ M °* R G D J d you see the han S I gave
JJ unstable for breaking “angelorum” into
angelo and “rum” with a rest between?
But -the musicians of your time, do they
not follow my precepts?
Phil : There has arisen a kind of song
called the Art Song,” which is so anxious
to fit the note to the word that it forgets
to dance; and a kind of poem which is so
anxious to express rare thought that it
lorgets to sing: when such a composer
and such a poet combine, we hear strange
sounds. I saw a song in the old style a
year or so ago;
Me fella lonely;
Big white wamba
Shine across the plain.
Him gibit sadness,
Tidjili, lubra;
Tidjili, come again.
Cry in the long grass.
Night-bird, hoo-hoo.
Same fella lonely, so?
Makim more sadness,
Tidjili, lubra;
Tidjili, where you go?
Jt has movement. If it were not
lor the curious language I would say that
it had some tinge of the floating strain
P„t mP w n ’„ a^ adness out of time.
w elJ, Campion or not, I shudder
at what might happen to Mr. lan Healy’s
, s ?, ng an art-song writer were to
fhlthm d f£ f 11 W . here there is a run of
11 mto something else;
flair there is a triplet squiggle, they
lt °l lt ’ Where the verse demands
y anc ? movement, they turn it into
Mr r h ' r 5 ythms - Now ’ look here,
Mr Morley—how about you setting it?
rpbrprf' r^? r Philom athes, I am—
from faster Healy take a lesson
setfin tPh iT? 10 °’ who ’ wearied of other men
setting his lyrics, studied music, and wrote
Hea°lv n hnv S t 0 h ' S ; own words - Let Master
Healy buy my Elaine and Ernie! If he
ofV3if ay f ° r *l’ he may make more use
andSirtW y ° U J yOU got {t for nothing,
nd little good it has done you!
R.McC.
Henry Kendall
5”?, that the Life of Henry
Wiring 3M! 1 have almost
", and the complete collection of
shonwTn^T 11 Which 1 am engaged
Si b ? beas accurate as possible,
anv nf 6^ 016 ’ 1 , would appreciate it if
SL?teS2T K aders who ma y p° ssess
sc ifli hy or to the poet, manu-
P° em u s ’ or any other material
or information about him would com-
me - (Archdeacon) T°T.
Reed, 42 Prescott - terrace, Toorak
Gardens, South Australia.
Percy Lindsay
* s toe only inscription
thoLf r g ° ° n Percy ’ s tombstone,
toough I have my doubts that he will
73 fh°e W °dfed en °at 8h af*?* at
pink-faced % % *
wifht° m bab , e ’ light of ste P as ever,
th merry laugh for all occasions. At
JJ*® me “xT? n °f name in any com-
pany Nice bloke, Perce,” will be
prompfly remarked, and the whole world
Wh^n S / UU of “ Awfully decent chaps.”
eariv if 681 m the house he «up
early m the morning, making and
delivering tea to all, including the cook,
who says he is a nice man.
He byes in the lower half of a two-
stoned house in North Sydney. When I
mited him he showed p / oud ™^
his three-roomed abode. “All for seven-
“M? f nd Sl f ]l § ht included,” he told me.
trmihl^ e °T? Uf ! Stairs ’ I ? ever § ive me any
l Nlce house > isn’t it?” he said
as he led me around to the kitchen where
a kerosene-tin was gurgling on the stove.
Doing a bit of washing,” he said. To
my inquiry if he did any cooking- “Oh
5tew.” 63117 aH my meals ' Tripe and
“Tripe? That takes a long time ” I
said. & ’
‘‘Yes, I put it on for hours. Last time
I turned the gas low and went up the
road for a drink, met old Joe,'awfully
decent chap, had a few and he walked
back with me. Coming in the gate I
asked him if he smelt something burning
and he said Yes, I do. I smell burning
leather. And it was my tripe,” Perce
chortled,
Percy is often to be met with strange
mends he acquires from unknown
sources. They are introduced by Percy
as “an awfully good sort.”
I Mostly the awfully good sorts are
through a trying time, and have
-Percy s entire sympathy, all of which they
endorse with nods and sighs as Percy
explains their plight.
Explaining away one of his specimens
wnom he took to the studio the other day
(he was a long, thin, white-faced, silent
man with a far-away look in his eyes),
Percy said “Awfully decent chap. Having
a hell of a time. Had to pawn his parrot
tor two quid last week and has to go to
the pawnshop every day to feed the bird.”
Yes, every day,” the lank one
hiccupped,
Percy went on to explain that the bird
vas quite used to being pawned and
vould fly home as soon as they could get
in accomplice to go to the shop and,
ifter expressing a wish to buy the bird,
eave the door open.
Jewish Stories
Judah Waten’s stories, Alien Son
(A. and R.), are 13 pictures of Australian
lire as seen by a Jewish family which
came to Australia before World War I
by no means a rich or even well-to-d
family, the father failing as a country
draper, and going into the empty-bottle
collecting business’; the boy later tryin*
to hire his father’s horses to holiday
makers in a country resort.
The excellence of the book is in it
studies of Australian Jews—“ Uncle
Isaac,” the pawnbroker, and the circum
stances surrounding the arrival of hi
wife’s baby; Mr. Sussman, who ran
away to the First World War rather than
propose marriage to Miss Fanny Cohen
old Hirsh, the ragged bottle-oh, saving
money against his son’s enlargement from
I prison, and what he did when news came
that the son had died; Smutkevitch, the
rigid upholder of the synagogue, and his
horror at observing his young son, Benny
emerging from a Christian church-hall
all done with a faithfulness and cer-
tainty that only a Jew could command.
And only a fine craftsman: the study
of a black family living in the slums,
Black Girl, and the nostalgic recollec-
tion of the family’s day-long drive behind
two horses to an amateur performance in
the council-hall of a country town, “The
Theatre,” are writing of the first class.
Judah Waten, who recently figured in
the Commonwealth Fund controversy is
a rarity amongst Leftist writers in that’he
has not allowed his politics to obtrude on
his art.
Penguins and Prophets
Tlie latest batch of Penguins includes a
further instalment of the excellent
Science News and a fascinating addition
to the series in which English historians
delve into England’s background —The
of English Society by Dorothy
Whitelock. It deals with pre-Norman
culture, architecture, social life, art and
political organisation, and the high level
of these will surprise a lot of people who
have a vague idea that before the
Conquest Englishmen went about in suits
of woad and paddled coracles.
An admirable guide for people who
like the occupation is Watching Birds for
Beginners by Bruce Campbell.
Nostradamus, or the Future Foretold
is a comprehensive investigation by James
Caver into the prophetic claims of the
biggest bore in history. Mr. Laver is
Keeper of the Prints at die Victoria and
Albert Museum, London, and from class-
ing Nostradamus with Old Moore came
to be a strong believer in him.
Nostradamus wasn’t a bore because he
foresaw the future, but because what he
foresaw was often so unimportant that the
efforts of his commentators to unravel
the riddles he left behind him seem as
superfluous as the endeavors of the
Baconians to prove that Shakspeare wasn’t
Shakspeare. It may be a fact that this
Middle Ages physician went into pro-
phetic trances, and in that state took
strolls into the future, but, if so, he
reminds one of the tourist who goes to
Naples and comes away remembering its
(i Continued on page 35)


The Most Distinguished
m
I
i
w
m
lame in Travel Goods
I n - >
'■ \ B ■ x .
1 *■
: • -1 n*|
-
H
: U-
■ m
■
HI
■9
,
- •
*.' -----
>■
mmm
m
■
mmMI
filai
'' < -
wmm li
«■
HSU :
-
H«i
1
'; |l
?.i3
I
/
H
Ws®s»S
- ■ -■■"■•-
m
■
is» '■« ■ ■• -
; l-:
*x**m
mm
mm
r 4 - 1 - . J
l?x N.x-
m\
N<
■
mmsm
ai«PiP
sr
.
■:- '--o-.v/
■
ip , , v
-
--1.-;
;
'
'
> *
:•■ “■
Wfflmsm
Hi H
i ...-■
m
m
\
- -/
n - «&r'
mm
sdf
;r .. . air luggage
of perfection
Light, strong, distinctive ANTLER luggage
famous as a plane traveller.
Perfectly practical and smart as well,
ANTLER is a travel “must."
Hfc
>• SO®
I- * J
M
- y •*
■■■Hl
£5/15/9
■
,' fc 4 I *® fe^ss
,
Ik
7 ~
Mi
Hi
f
18*
ft
s&w:
Top left. GENT’S CRUISER CASE. A
deeper case. In the' same lightweight,
strong quality, but fitted with tray inside.
Available in one size only, large 24in.
This case is attractively lined throughout
and fitted with side flap for shoes and
waterproof lined pocket in lid. Price,
£ll/19/9.
Lower right. CRUISER CASE. A deeper
case. In the same lightweight, strong
quality but fitted with a tray inside.
Available in one size only, large 24in.
This case is attractively lined throughout
and available in several smart colours.
Price is £lO/12/3.
Top centre. GENT’S CASE. A strong
and smart case for the man who travels.
It is fitted with a shoe pocket, two
pouched pockets in lid and a waterproof
pocket for shaving equipment. In three
sizes; 20in., priced at £B/18/-; 22in.,
priced at £9/7/9; and 24in., at £9/17/6.
Lower left. HAT CASE. Designed in the
popular horse shoe shape. Fitted with a
special handle for easy 'carrying on the
arm. The colours are Nigger Blown or
Rich Burgundy. Pouched pockets in lid
and body. Size 16in. Priced at £5/15/9.
Top right. BLOUSE CASE. Beautifully
lined and attractive in appearance —this
lightweight blouse case. The top is soft
and inside lid is a zip, waterproof pocket.
We have this blouse case in the three
sizes: 20in„ 22in., and 24in. Prices are
£B/18/-, £9/7/9, and £9/17/6.
Top left. HAT CASE. A matching
case to blouse case. Made with a
square base, tapering top. Lined through-
out with waterproof pocket in lid. The
colours are Black, Brown and Burgundy.
In one size only, 18in. and priced at
£B/7/-. Perfect for weekend case.
ds
fs
Hi
aMII
TRAVEL GOODS DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY TELEPHONES M 2401


Golden days of a golden brew
SHANGHAI BEER
By MABEL WALN SMITH
SHANGHAI, China, used to be
noted for its beer. Although Peking,
that ancient and dramatic capital in
the north, and Tsingtao, that
loveliest of all summer resorts along
China’s yellow-sanded sea-coast, made
a little beer, this sank into oblivion when
compared to the huge brewing that went
on in Shanghai.
Two enormous breweries named
U.B. and EWO—flourished there. That
is, these breweries flourished during those
halcyon Shanghai days before the Com-
munist siege of 1949.
The U.B. brewery was started by the
Germans about the year 1. They imported
both grain and hops from their home
country, and also a master-mind Prussian
versed in such matters. He presided over
the malt-making in secret, and so
delightful was the thirst-quenching golden
brown liquid he concocted in that parched
climate where the summer thermometer
soars to 103 degrees that—well, this brew-
master became the toast of the settlement,
Travellers who, up to that time, had
sneered at Shanghai as “the upstart mud-
flats where tribute junks assembled before
entering the Grand Canal en route to pay
taxes to the Manchu rulers at Peking”
now stopped-off to have a drink. They
not only took the famous brew-master
to dinner, but most young foreign men
sent out to secure a British, American or
Portuguese foothold in China found their
interests developed best when this brew-
master sat at the head of their table,
Time passed. The Boxer Rebellion
with all its bloodshed, came and went’
and Shanghai was named one of China’s
five treaty ports. Foreign concessions
were granted. Adventurers swarmed in,
and, settling down with concubine-
interpreters, proceeded to build up
fortunes. Sound businessmen arrived
from all over the world, trundling unwil-
ling wives. The settlement bulged, burst
its seams, spread further over the Yellow
Reach. The old Empress Dowager, last
of the Manchu rulers, died in a blaze of
notoriety; the Chinese Republic was
born. And there was talk of Shanghai
even becoming a “world-shaking city.”
The U.B. brewery threw up extra mud-
and-bamboo buildings, shovelled in more
grain and hops, made more malt, served
everyone—these hard-working Germans,
Came World "War I. Shanghai
foreigners mostly scattered to battle for
their respective countries. China per-
mitted the Allies to intern its Germans
on a charming little island in Lotus Lake,
outside the city walls of Nanking. When
the war ended, to the winner went the
spoils: Chinese coolies scurried back
home from European road-building and
invested their hoarded wages in land;
thirsty American and British men who
had spent four long years fighting in
muddy European trenches hurried back
to Shanghai. They stretched out eager
hands to receive that prize, the German
brewery.
But U.B. could not be touched. This
little goldmine was no longer German.
By some mysterious means, it had
changed hands during the war. Legal
papers, properly drawn up by the two
countries concerned, showed U.B. brewery
was owned by Sweden.
The Americans, thumbing their noses
in derision, turned away. Not so the
British. They rolled up their sleeves and
built themselves a brewery. EWO was its
name, and it was designed to snatch all
the trade from U. 8., thus putting the
Swedes out of business.
The big fight, however, never came off
—because Shanghai, growing by leaps and
bounds once again, kept both breweries
busy night and day brewing enough beer
to supply the populace. Soon a Belgian
glass-factory was manufacturing small
and large bottles that were filled with
beer and loaded on to ships bound for
other parts of the Orient. This service
contributed to that stream of imports and
exports pouring fast in and out of the
Whangpu River, whereon the city is
located, forty miles from the sea.
Shanghai developed into the most vital
shipping port in the Orient.
Shanghai was having some of its best
years when I arrived as a bride in 1937.
Through it passed about 50 , per cent, of
the imports and 35 per cent, of the exports
of China. In this modern entrepot there
were paper- and cotton-mills, shipbuild-
ing yards, engineering plants, waterworks,
skyscrapers, luxury hotels and innumer-
able other commercial establishments.
Ships from all over the world lay along-
side and embarked and discharged cargo
at the extensive wharves, or lay at the
buoys in the Whangpu, which, from being
in its undredged days a little stream of no
account, was now serving the second-
largest city in the Far East and the fifth-
largest in the world.
And the beer situation? Nowhere on
earth could it have been better.
Both U.B. and EWO breweries had
installed the most up-to-date machinery
in their solid red-brick buildings. Chinese
soil grows no hops, so hops was being
imported from Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
England or Denmark. But Chinese barley
grown in the north was proving excellent
for beer-making. Otherwise malt was
imported from Japan or Canada.
Light beer and dark beer, stout, top-vat
and bottom-vat, were being delivered to
anywhere inside or outside the city. It
came by lorry. In large or small bottles
—or kegs if you were having a real slap-
up moonlight roof-garden party. This
lorry was driven by Chinese coolies who,
never having studied motor mechanics,
tore along in second-gear, hating the
smell and taste of beer as much as they
do mutton or cheese. These coolies
knew more about weights, balance and
leverage than possibly anyone else on
earth. To watch their wiry, satin-brown-
skin bodies, stripped to all but coarse
blue cotton-cloth trousers, load or unload
their heavy cargo to the chant of their
“Hee Ha Work Song” was a mesmerising
study in rhythm!
Beer could be had at any of the foreign
juxury clubs we all belonged to in those
*days: the Italian Club, noted for its
fashionable fencing classes; the British
Club, with its famous green tennis-courts ;
the American Club, with its fabulous
Sunday barbecues ; the French Club, with
the longest swimming-pool in the Orient,
scene of most great aquatic races in the
Far East; the Silk Hat, Mum’s, the Jade
Lantern, Joe Farren’s and all the other
world-known, Paris-like nightclubs where
one danced the languorous, tropic, dark
hours through. They sold beer as well as
whisky, gin and wines. Inexpensively.
And, if one chanced to be taking an early-
morning canter on his race-pony, beer
could be had on a rustic bamboo table
laid with a red-checked cloth under a
century-old spreading ginko-tree. Far out
in the country.
But what surprised me most was what
happened once when I was attending a
midnight service with Chinese friends at
a Confucian temple. We repaired, finally,
to one of the myriad inner courtyards to
rest our weary feet, and while my hostess
sipped fragrant green tea, a Chinese monk
unobtrusively produced a bottle of cool
beer from underneath his robe, opened it
and presented it to me!
“Blood Alley” is the name of a dark
and twisting, narrow street near the Bund,
where Shanghai men liked to go for a
gusty night of beer-drinking. Sailors
rolled in from all parts of the world look-
ing for ways to get rid of their money.
Love headed the bill, of course ; next
came the settling of old grudges ; and
after that general blood-letting for the
sheer fun of it. Soldiers from every-
where hurried to join the sailors.
Bachelors lusting for adventure, and
husbands with wives back in the home
country, pushed their way into the
melee, too, helped along by the lovely
White Russian girls who served behind
the bar—long eyelashes fluttering, seduc-
tive bodies clothed to alluring perfection,
honey-colored hair falling in a perfumed
cascade that rivalled the golden beer they
poured into long glass steins.
Seldom was any man disappointed in
his night at “Blood Alley.” Everyone got
into the mood down there, I was told.
Even during those rare periods of “after
hours,” or war-time curfew, entry to
“Blood Alley” was no problem, for men.
An Annamite policeman would lead up
a likely fire-escape, and cut a path for
the newcomers through the smoke and
broken bottles to the bar. After that he
retreated to his post under a clump of
bamboos at the corner of the dimly-
lighted street. He usually played the
pibah, a Chinese fiddle guaranteed to
drown-out all other noise—until he fell
asleep. Some of Shanghai’s goriest
murders happened in “Blood Alley.”
Came World War 11, nibbling first at
Europe and causing us peculiar troubles
of our own while Orientals in general
made up their minds which side to be on.
Finally, when the European war flowed
out to join ours, the Chinese were Allies
and the Japanese were enemies in control
of the port. Our movements were
restricted to within Shanghai city-limits,
our businesses were taken over, part of
our homes were requisitioned, and our
furniture and motor-cars were carted
away. Food and wines became scarce,
but beer flowed on in a golden stream.
Lifting our hearts; alleviating our hard-
ships.
Pearl Harbor put us behind barbed-
wire, During the three years we
Americans and British were jammed into
Shanghai internment-camps, the Japanese
manned the two breweries. This output,
added to some from their home country,
Stories
Another gem in next week’s
Bulletin stories—
“HOME LIFE,
ALLAHABAD "
by Ethel Anderson
The scandalous behavior of a
European Prince with an Indian
Princess during his visit to India.
kept their whole army red-faced drunk
and sprawling all over the Far East. It
served as food after they had scraped
China clean of rice and vegetables.
After that war, the breweries reverted
to their legal owners. True, there were
no more small bottles —the Japanese had
filled these with explosives and used them
as hand-grenades but beer flowed
naturally again for a few happy years.
Until the approach of the Communists.
Then U.B. brewery sold most of its shares
to Hong Kong, whence it later moved to
Manila, where it now functions, shipping
a very good beer called “San Miguel,”
even as far as Australia.
The EWO brewery, owned and run by
the British, continued to function until
a few months ago, because Great Britain
had acknowledged the New Regime in
China. But now that British interests
have iteen forced out of China their
property, I hear, has been converted to
either jam or soya-bean-sauce factories.
And what is the present beer situation
in Shanghai? Well, Communism, it
seems, believes there is virtue only in
living life the hard way: no lush eating,
no joyous drinking. Although the
Chinese people had by this time developed
a taste for beer, and the Soviets stick to
their vodka, the Chinese Communists are
more grim in their adherence to doctrine.
Shanghai, I believe, has no more beerl.
Cleaning-up the Garage
50ME fellows hold the notion
that a garage is primarily to
house the family car. This is
really heretical thinking.
Where else, for instance, is one to
poke the old feather- or flock-
mattress displaced by the new inner-
spring aristo? One can’t stuff it in
the garbage-can, whilst its value in
the compost-pit is doubtful. The
domestic fowls’ stupid habit of
perching instead of making nests
scotches that only other possible
source of usefulness.
There is one sure, quick method
of disposal, but as this involves the
exact coincidence of a 90-m.p.h.
cyclone blowing straight down the
street with the mattress’s becoming
useless, this can be ruled out.
But it can be propped against the
garage wall with a couple of 6ft.
garden-stakes, or even placed on the
floor immediately above the car-
sump to catch the grease, at the
same time making under-the-car
work so comfortable that you can
(literally) do it in your sleep.
Then there are the photo of
Grandfather in his strangulation vest,
at last given its overdue passage
from the mantelpiece, the “Stag At
Bay” and the picture of the soulful-
eyed young lady clinging to the
rock in mid-ocean, and similar art
horrors relegated to the limbo. You
shove them in the garage with the
■ intention of unloading them on some
junk-shop. This you never do be-
cause you can’t bring yourself to the
belief that anybody would be bone-
headed enough to buy ’em.
There are also the shoes too old
to wear, but which might do for the
garden, all the empties, odd pieces of
timber, the old curtains you might
find a use for some time. Also a place
must be found for*the empty pre-
served-fruit tins beloved of the home-
painter—l myself have a collection
of some two dozen—along with oil,
car-polishing materials, string, paints,
old rags and garden-pest extermi-
nators.
My own collection of tins is
stacked precariously among the
paints, distilled-water, tools, broken
clock, tins of nails and screws, tools,
carborundum-stone, old cushion,
picnic billy, grease-gun and the other
30 to 40 things on my work-bench,
working at which is easy provided I
don’t sneeze and precipitate an
avalanche.
The stacking of blood-and-bone,
garden-stakes, mower, garden tools,
bags, odd furniture awaiting repair,
step-ladder, etc., as well as some of
the aforementioned junk, around the
walls and on the floor can be done
by an accomplished garage-messer-up
so well that he can eventually drive
his car into a space with only lin.
clearance from the surrounding
junk.
The man who shrewdly insists on
always driving the car in and out of
his garage can potter around in these
jungle conditions quite happily. It
is nothing for me to go into the
garage to get the nail-punch or the
hammer from the bench and emerge
triumphant 10 minutes later.
But for the man who is stupid
enough to let his wife drive in and
out of his garage it is fatal. What
happens? She tries to get out the
driver’s door and it will open only an
inch because of the step-ladder. She
tries the other side and puts her
foot into the open bag of lime. In
the end she has to climb over the
back and inch her way out the back
door, treading on the heap of empty
beer-bottles or into her jam-making
pan he borrowed to put the used
sump-oil in. Then the order goes
out for the clean-up.
This, however, can be simplicity
itself. Start at the corner near the
door and work your way around one
wall. Delighted surprise may be
your lot. You shift a heap of mouldy
bags full of slaters, and there may
be the 2in. brush you used when you
half-painted the house six months
before, hard as cast-iron but still a
brush. Or you might come across the
hose-nozzle (the disappearance of
which puzzled you the year before)
behind the few house-bricks you use
for putting under the axle when
changing a tyre.
Shift all this stuff to the opposite
side; if it won’t all go there it can
be hung from the rafters. Another
good place for small things is along
the top bearer, around all four sides.
I’ve had things stacked up there for
years, and one day intend to draw
up a chart showing which is which.
In the meantime it’s easy enough to
go around exploring with the step-
ladder.
Old deck-chair frames can, with
practice, be balanced among the
paint-pots on the bench ; the bag of
blood-and-bone can be kept near
the door where it’s handy to shift in
and out every time the car’s moved.
A full day’s work should see a few
feet of cleared space near the door.
It will come in handy for the old
palm-stand shortly to be ditched, the
bag of superphosphate you’ll soon be
getting, the kids’ gum-boots and a
few other odds-and-ends.
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 8 , 1952
Vol. 73—No. 3791
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE FUNDERS FIGHT
Flinders by-election is a general election in little.
The party leaders have agreed to fight out here the
duel between themselves personally and the uncom-
promising conflict between their party policies.
The issue is private enterprise versus socialisa-
tion for the correction of high costs which are
throttling industry. It is Parliamentary government
versus union rule ; democracy versus Communism and
fellow-travellers ; a strong Australia militarily or a
defenceless Australia ; Menzies versus Evatt.
No general election could be faced with a clearer
definition of the issues separating the parties. Members
on each side in Canberra pour into the Flinders
campaign behind these rival standards. And
on this occasion local voters cannot fall back on
the excuse that they can safely vote against the Gov-
ernment without defeating it.
A vote against the Government would be a vote
in favor of having Evatt and his Socialists back in
power to “restore prosperity” with his hypocritical
policy of inflated credit-finance.
“Labor” politics have nigh bankrupted the public
administration of New South Wales. A vote for the
Evatt programme in Flinders next Saturday week
would be in favor of seeing fastened upon all Australia
the financial leg-irons hobbling that State Govern-
ment’s activities.
Flinders has twice within the past two and a half
years voted convincingly with the majority of the Aus-
tralian people for the Menzies Government’s pro-
gramme, for the cleaning-up of the Socialist mess left
by the Evatt party in 1949, and on the second occasion
(which was last year) to give the Government a free
hand and a fair chance, previously denied it by a
“Labor” rump in the Senate, to combat inflated prices
and restore productive effort.
This is the essence of Mr. Menzies’s appeal in
Flinders. “Labor” can no longer, as during the first
18 months of the Government’s career, obstruct legis-
lative efforts in Parliament. But it can, and does still,
strive to defeat every improvement the Government
initiates by calamity-howling about depression in order
to destroy confidence.
In its 50 years of existence the national Parliament
has not listened to a more disgraceful exposition of
political mountebankery than that in Dr. Evatt’s speech
on the current Budget. He is repeating it now
in Flinders, offering in exchange for votes easy money
at low interest-rates, more production for less work,
a profusion of public works paid for by unlimited
bank-credit, higher pensions for everybody and sub-
sidisation of all consumer-goods (price-control) with
reduced taxation.
His colleague, Premier Cahill of N.S.W., defined
Dr. Evatt’s “full-employment” panacea the other day
in these words to transport unions protesting against
retrenchment:
The fact is that in recent years the worker has
had an independence which he has never previously
enjoyed. We had got to the stage when a worker
could choose which of the jobs offered him he pre-
ferred.... He might have created a little annoyance
to the employer [Mr. Cahill's Government being
eminently such a one]. Now the position has begun
to change. There are not more jobs than men to
fill them.
This, says Dr. Evatt, ignoring the overspending of
our overseas funds and the effect of high prices on
local loan-investment—’“this is the result of the
Menzies Government’s sabotage of full employment.”
Full employment is not possible unless cheap
money is available. It is embodied in the Tabor
party's policy. The restriction of credit constitutes
a greater danger than inflation.
He unblushingly quoted Lord Keynes and Lord
Beveridge in support of this nonsense about curing
inflation by more inflation. He says also:
It is an integral part of full employment that
interest rates should be low and should be kept
10w....The market is being rendered almost impos-
sible daily because of a complete absence of firm
Government policy in respect of cheap money.
How would Dr. Evatt today procure cheap loan-
money by compulsion? To be precise—how would
he compel the electors of Flinders to subscribe to
Government loans at 2 per cent, and like it? Of course,
he couldn’t. But what he makes clear he would do is
to print so much paper-money without backing as to
make everybody’s hard-earned savings worth nothing
and therefore cheap.
And to what end?. Only universal “Government
MOSCOW SALUTES THE WORLD
stroke” on Government jobs in the name of “full
employment.”
Flinders ought not to want more than one look
at this dangerous nonsense.
New State Representation
Mr. Cahill’s redistribution of N.S.W. State seats has
made itself felt at once in the New England New State
movement, whose objective is the excision of 65,000
square miles and 686,000 people from N.S.W., north
of a. line south of Newcastle to north of Bourke. The
movement presented one petition in 1950 which was
rejected on a party vote in the N.S.W. Assembly by a
majority of two ; the one it is now considering will
have much more incentive and determination behind
it.
It will also probably stir other New State move-
ments to renewed agitation. If the Queensland move-
ment reawakens, the Government there will find diffi-
culty in resisting its pleas. The Government of Mr.
Hanlon’s time committed itself to a New-States policy,
at least in principle, and rural Queensland, growing in
population and wealth, is becoming increasingly
restive at a condition of affairs which fattens a rapidly
bloating capital down in one of the State’s corners
and spreads the bulk of State expenditure within easy
reach of it.
Queenslanders have the same inducements to
break away as prevail in N.S.W. In Queensland
“Labor” has fastened a permanent grip on
government. Nobody up north ever breaks the law
against betting on the overall result of a State elec-
tion, because there is nothing to bet on. The elector-
ates and rolls are so arranged—Queensland being the
only State which has not a uniform State and Federal
roll —that the result is a foregone conclusion. Nothing
but an avalanche-drift against “Labor” could throw
the Gairs out. Nothing but subdivision of the State
can break “Labor’s” dictator grip over the large areas
opposed to its policies.
There is more advanced regional organisation of
the New State movement in N. S. Wales, and if Mr.
Cahill goes ahead with his scheme he can expect very
definite reactions. The new electoral division means,
in effect, the permanent disfranchisement of the pre-
dominantly non-“ Labor” North of the State.
In 1949, when seats were last redistributed, the
country was assured that a satisfactory basis had been
attained. Apart from the general protest against the
adoption of a principle that the city and industrial
areas dominated the producing areas under the plan,
it was accepted in detail, also, as satisfactory by
the Country-party organisation. The Country
party lodged a protest against only a single subdivision
—Broken Hill. Except for one, the numbers in the
country electorates ranged on late rolls approximately
from 14,700 to 20,000. And that another redistribution
was not needed to maintain the already accepted basis
is shown by the fact that the range under the newest
subdivision is almost exactly the same as before.
Organisations which support the New England
State movement have every reason for their alarm at
the idea of becoming helots to the present crowd in
office. The sooner they push their case to fruition the
better.
This will not be easy because, without a Com-
monwealth convention and a remaking of the whole
of the States, the granting of separate self-government
to any particular area presents vast problems. The
breaking-up of any one State must immediately upset
the balance of representation in the Federal Houses,
call for reorganisation of Loan Council arrangements
and of civil-service placement of departments.
Yet reorganisation undoubtedly becomes more
vital every day, with the increasing strength of the
grip of the cities on the Commonwealth as a whole.
The creation of schemes such as the Showy River
project and the expansion of Newcastle industry are
strengthening the separation claims of the areas
in which they lie. And the recent open
flaunting by Federal “Labor” of its ideal of a
centralised A.L.P.-managed Government at Canberra,
dominating Commonwealth-financed helot-provinces
shorn of all but delegate power, makes it advisable that
the issue should be promptly tackled.
The Federal Government would be prudent if it
made the New State movement its own. It has a
distinct responsibility for assuring a proper balance
of representation of suitable homogeneous regions in
the national Parliament. And' in the light of fore-
shadowed expansions the country’s most vital problem
in politics, though it is little realised, is a readjust-
ment of the foci of government to meet shifts and
growths of production and major industry, consequent
on hydroelectric and irrigation expansion, the growth
of fuel output in States other than N.S.W., the develop
ment of great mining projects—gold, silver-lead,
copper and uranium—in the North.
This is far more important to Australia’s future
and security than anything that can be achieved by
the wholesale interference with other people’s business
and ways of life which has become a main pre-
occupation of a large section of the Ministry and
civil service.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Two Explosions
Columns of space were wasted on the
explosion of the atom weapon at Monte
Bello on Friday last. It all amounted to
one fact—the thing had exploded. The
rest was conjecture, most of it silly, and
“explanation,” most of it ill-informed.
The one fact of great importance not
stressed in proper perspective was that
the operation, a huge one, was part of a
joint United Kingdom-Australian defence
enterprise, which has been going on for
the past three years and more at Woomera
and elsewhere, and which has a vital bear-
ing not only upon our actual security
but on our relations with the U.K. and
the British Commonwealth in general.
It assures that in fighting a war Aus-
tralia and Britain must be one and cannot
divide their interests.
Yet only three or four days before
the explosion of the Monte Bello bomb
there was another which shook the
British Press and public opinion more
than anything that has happened between
this and the Mother Country for years.
It was detonated by the announcement
that all parties to the Anzus conference
had agreed that a British observer should
not be allowed to attend the conference
of the U.S., Australian and N.Z. military
authorities, because if Britain were
allowed to attend it might offend our
great allies the Filipinos or others who
were not asked—not to mention the anti-
British vote in the U.S. Presidential elec-
tions.
It was cause for wonder what the ex-
tent of the outcry in Australia would
have been if the U.K. had taken a similar
stand about Monte Bello and had de-
cided that it would be unwise to ask
the Australians to attend because, if they*
did, excluded Thailanders and Indo-
nesians might be offended.
It seems that the Australian Govern-
ment is not preparing the ground
very well for the important economic and
defence conference which is to meet in
London next month with Mr. Menzies
present.
Coal and Political Humbug
“We're producing too much coal and the
Menzies Government isn’t prepared to
do anything about it,” sums up the panic-
cries of N.S.W. Minister for Mines
Arthur.
The prospect of possible overproduc-
tion of coal seems almost incredible after
nearly a dozen years of coal-famine,
during which blackouts, power-rationing,
the use of diesel-plants and recourse to
imported coal have been part of the
normal pattern of Australian industry.
Mr. Arthur’s outburst was inspired by
a Coal Board report that coal-production
rate in N.S.W. is now a million tons
ahead of current consumption, and that
inferior-grade coal can no longer find a
market. The Minister, resorting to the
current “Labor” catchcry, avers that this
has come about through “the credit-
restriction policy of the Federal Govern-
ment”—steady customers have had to
reduce their programmes, and, “as there
is more coal than we can sell, consumers
can afford to pick the best.” In Socialist
eyes, of course, picking the best is a sin ;
the customer should take what is given
him—as he has had to do for the past 10
years.
It is ridiculous to cry calamity because
the goal of adequate coal-production,
which all Governments State and
Federal, “Labor” and Liberal —have been
aiming at since the war, now seems to
have been reached. Earlier in the year
the Federal Government announced its
intention of stockpiling a million tons of
coal. As State Minister for Mines, Mr.
Arthur must have been aware of this, so
it is hard to see how he can fairly regard
the present situation as alarming.
Mr. Arthur’s real concern—and that of
the Miners’ Federation —seems to be that
some of the smaller mines, producing
low-grade coal, may be closed down.
Low-grade coal is only a substitute for
high-grade coal; when good coal is avail-
able there is no rhyme or reason in pro-
ducing poor stuff. Members of Mr.
Arthur’s own Government have time and
again attributed inefficiency at Bunner-
ong to the poor quality of the coal the
powerhouse has been forced to accept
for lack of better, and the experience
there could be duplicated throughout the
whole field of industry ; from some pits
the proportion of rock and shale in the
“coal” is said to be as high as 25 per
cent.
Nor is there any reason to fear that
the closing of poor-quality “holes in the
ground”—the Minister’s own phrase—
will bring about a depression in the
industry. The Miners’ Federation has
already closed its books to new members,
and there should be no real difficulty in
absorbing into more profitable workings
men who may lose their jobs through
closing down the “holes in the ground.”
Despite doleful talk to the contrary—
mostly political—there is still plenty of
room for industrial expansion in this
country ; the growing population alone is
a guarantee of that, and, after all, just
what does one million tons of coal mean?
In terms of current consumption it
amounts to three weeks’ stock !
Keith Murdoch
Few Australians did not know the name
of Keith Murdoch ; few appreciated how
much he did. to change the outlander
pioneering Australia of the years before
1914 into a modern rapidly industrialising
nation with a world outlook.
He was, beyond doubt, the greatest
journalistic organiser the Commonwealth
has seen. He was a big man physically,
who began without more than ordinary
advantages, and his outlook and vision
were as big as himself.
He first made himself felt as correspon-
dent in World War I, and he cared nothing
that in certain quarters he made himself
unpopular. Virtually unknown in 1915,
lodged on Gallipoli for a few days to
make a routine inquiry on soldiers’ mail,
he wrote to Andrew Fisher a letter
describing the conduct of the Gallipoli
campaign which within three weeks was
printed by Asquith as a State paper and
circulated to the Imperial War Cabinet.
Whatever can be said of its facts in
the light of pure history, that document
had a great impact on the fate of the
Gallipoli campaign and made Murdoch
a power behind the scenes for the rest
of the war, consulted by the Prime
Minister and sometimes by the high Aus-
traliah command, a man whose name was
known to every soldier and hundreds of
thousands of civilians by the war’s end.
Whereas before the war began the best
offering for him was editorship of the
projected Sydney Labor daily, the
“World,” after it ended Theodore Finke
• made him commander-in-chief of the
Melbourne “Herald” organisation, and of
that expanding concern he has been the
ruler ever since, extending his empire
to Adelaide and Brisbane.
It is not too much to say that he was
the father of modern journalism in Aus-
tralia. In every sense he benefited the
profession, expanding its employment, in-
creasing its remunerations, helping con-
siderably to ease its conditions of work.
The Melbourne “Herald,” which set the
pace and tone for all his publications, was
first and foremost a newspaper, impartial,
of great coverage, free of undue sensa-
tionalism. The core of its news was
always concerned with solid public affairs,
and Murdoch’s use of his influence on
public opinion and on Administrations
and Governments, though vigorous, was
normally salutary and legitimate, and
never applied for private ends. He had
a great deal to do with the birth of the
Australian newsprint industry.
In the earlier days of his greatness he
was frequently referred to as an Aus-
tralian Northcliffe, but, though he owed
much to the methods of Northcliffe, he
belonged to a far more responsible school,
was free of the Harmsworth type of
vanity, had a balanced view of public
life, and as long as his health, which
had been very bad for more than a
decade, allowed, he remained a worker
with whom the toughest lieutenants found
it hard to keep up.
It can be said of him, too, that he
changed little intrinsically in his outlook
on the world between 1918 and 1952, and
it stands to his credit that he was as
loyal to his old friends as to his old basic
principles. His place in Australian history
is secure.
Charles Bean probably has written the
best summary of him in a sentence: “A
man of forceful personality, combining
keen love of power with an intense
devotion to his country and countrymen.”
He could have had almost anything the
British world of journalism had to offer,
but it was this country’s good fortune
that “in spite of all temptation” he pre-
ferred to remain Australian,
—
Yoshida Wins
The Japanese election results provided no
surprises. The Yoshida Government,
hampered by the operations within its
party of the supporters of Hatoyama, its
purged former leader, lost 45 seats, but
came back with 240 out of a total of 466.
Some of its losses were to the Progres-
sives (Right Conservative Nationalists),
led by Shigemitsu, a former Foreign
Minister who signed the surrender and
who was afterwards treated by S.C.A.P.
as a major war-criminal.
The Right Socialists, conducting a war
with the Left Socialists as much as with
the Government, increased their strength
from 30 to 57, and the Left Socialists
from 16 to 54. Miscellaneous remnants,
which had 46 seats in the old Diet, now
have only 30. And the Communists, who
had 22, now have none ; they put up 107
candidates.
Thus the only two organised parties
which lost were the Government and the
Communists, and both extreme Con-
servatives and Socialists gained substan-
tially ; the former by 18 seats (they had
67 in the old House), the Socialists by 65
(they held only 46 in the old House).
The emphasis in reaching these results
has been on nationalism, marked by the
return to the Diet of over 100 ex-poli-
ticians who had been excluded from
public life by the occupation authorities.
The Government’s position will not be
nearly so comfortable as- it was before.
It no longer commands an absolute
majority large enough to give it security,
and it is bound to be rent at the begin-
ning by a fight for the leadership between
the aged Yoshida and Hatoyama, who
hyas a very powerful following which
seems to approve him the more because
of his having been purged.
The most satisfactory feature of the
poll is the decisive vote against the Com-
munists. Russia assured that when it
vetoed Japan’s entry into membership of
U.N.O. against the votes of the other
10 members of the Security Council.
Juries* Accident Awards
As a result of a motor accident a woman
was so badly injured that medical opinion
said she would never walk again. She
asked for £15,000 damages. A jury at
Wollongong (N.S.W.) awarded her
£40,000. In these cases juries are not told
of the amount claimed, but are required
to assess the damages on the evidence.
From the humane point of view ten
times the sum would not compensate the
sufferer for the injuries and their dread-
ful result. At the same time the huge
sums being awarded by juries should be
questioned, for it is evident that insur-
ance companies, who are liable under
compulsory third-party risk insurance,
will find it impossible to carry the risk.
Some of them are already declining third-
party insurance business because of these
awards.
It is to be noted, too, that juries have
a different outlook from Governments.
Invested at 5 p.c., £40,000 would give a
return of £4O a week. Many an ex-
serviceman, badly crippled for his coun-
try, has to get along on £6 or £7 a week,
and a war-widow has to do on less and
be under a form of official surveillance.
There is no quarrel with the principle
of third-party insurance. In practice,
however, some extraordinary things have
happened, such as wives suing husbands
and fathers their sons —whichever hap-
pens to own the vehicle. Motor-owners
have been astounded at the mounting
cost of this form of insurance, which is
compulsory, and the succession of high
damages will lead, very shortly, to a
general refusal by insurance companies
to accept the risk. When that happens
the weight will be thrown back on Gov-
ernments, which means the taxpayers.
There is reason for a close examination
of the capacity of juries to assess dam-
ages,
A Concealed Objective
At the British Labor party’s annual con-
ference the Sevan Left-wingers chal-
lenged the party leaders on the question
of more nationalisation of industry for
nationalisation’s own sake, and especially
Mr. Morrison, Deputy-leader of the
Opposition, who had advocated caution
in this policy.
The challenge was taken up on the
voting for seven members elected by the
conference out of the 27 (the other 20
being elected by the unions) who com-
pose the party’s national executive. The
Bevanites won six of these seven seats,
defeating Morrison among others. There-
upon they announced that they would
press for more nationalisation in the
party’s programme, and no monopolist
or other excuses about it.
This raises the question whether
extremists in the Australian “Labor”
party will now be emboldened to throw
over the watered-down interpretation of
“Labor’s” socialisation objective as a
policy to be applied only when industries
are (in “Labor’s” opinion, of course)
“deemed to be exploiting the people,”
and will admit that its platform means
what it says—the full “Red rules” for
Socialist revolution and nothing less.
Hitherto the inter-State A.L.P. Federal
executive and the A.C.T.U. have both
dodged the issue raised when the late
J. B. Chifltey tripped badly over the busi-
ness of winning an election on not men-
tioning any socialisation schemes, and
then saying that the electors ought to have
known that his party’s socialisation objec-
tive was there all the time, and if they
overlooked it, that was just bad luck for
them.
Beggar-My-Neighbor
From London: There is ample substance
for Mr. Churchill’s remark: “Four-fifths
of both parties agree on four-fifths of
what should be done.” Yet there is small
chance of any truce in the political war
as between parties, or, indeed, between
the factions of one party.
The warring continues in pamphlet
form. Transport House, Labor’s h.q., in
its latest publication, “The Real Nature
of Conservatism,” provides evidence of
the fixation which reduces practical
Socialism to an adolescent level of abuse
and “holier-than-thou” expressions of
faith. The pamphlet practises precisely
what Mr, Morgan Phillips’s foreword
denies-—“ Tory-bashing.”
It forcibly labels Conservatives a “class
party,” yet underlines class hatred in every
paragraph. The House of Lords gets a
good basting. Mr. Butler, whose responsi-
bility for a great Education Act is over-
looked, is duly marked out for his 5 p.c.
cut in educational costs and for slashing
the food subsidies. And Mr. Churchill,
who can do nothing right, is contemptu-
ously censured for his personal interven-
tion over fare-increases (which led, in
fact, to some reductions). Similarly, the
excess-profits levy—a. concession to the
Welfare State and its workers that is
borne grudgingly by the Tories’ tradi-
tional supporters—is “by common assent
a bad tax.”
The pamphlet, anxious to prove that
the Conservative party is a class party,
recites its composition—public schools
and all that. The Ministers especially
have “a restricted social background” (so,
too, did Mr. Attlee’s, but this is parsed
over), and no fewer than 14 are Old
Etonians. Or were, since the Minister of
Housing and Health was replaced by Mr.
lain Macleod, who is not. But if you
can’t be a villain in one way you can in
another. Mr. Macleod, it seems, though
no true-blue schoolboy, was co-author of
a pamphlet, “The Social Services,” in
which the question was asked: “Why
should any social service be provided
without test of means?” (The point about
this question, wrenched naked from its
context, is that the pamphlet did not
attack the social services but criticised
them for being incomplete and unfair,
making the revelation that more people
received poor relief in 1950 than in
1900.)
It is known that Transport House is
much concerned about the Labor party’s
depleted membership. The total figure of
about 6,000,000 is not inconsiderable, but
it includes about 5,000,000 whose mem-
bership goes automatically with a trade-
union card. Individual figures are as fol-
lows; Co-op,, 35,000; constituencies,
513,000 men and 363,000 women. The
averages —770 men and 540 women in a
constituency of 56,000 —only serve to
show how much the Socialists depend
upon the trade-union support and the
fostering of prejudice and emotionalism.
Operation Mainbrace
“Ek Dum” : In Operation Mainbrace, the
largest all-services manoeuvres held m
Europe for many a day, Admiral Sir
Patrick Brind, R.N., commanded 160
ships and 80,000 men.
The field of naval- and air-support
operations stretched over several hun-
dred miles between Lofoten and Sylt,
into the Baltic as far as 40 miles east
of Danish Bornholm, though forbidden
to touch within 15 miles of R us ®i
controlled shores. The C.-in-C. s H.Q.
were lodged in the wooded heights over-
looking Oslo, in Norway.
The exercise assumed that “a European-
Asiatic Power not intended to represent
any nation” had occupied Finmark and
Tromso provinces in Northern Norway
and had reached Narvik, where a Nor-
wegian shadow-army was supposedly m
action. The foe on the south, pressing
towards Denmark, was theoretically held
at the Kiel Canal. All defending services
were supposedly outnumbered, and Ad-
miral McCormick, the overall N.A.i.U.
commander, had ordered a powerful fleet
to cross the North Sea.
The striking force, preceded by mine-
sweepers and 25 refuellers, sailed from
British waters on the afternoon of Sep-
tember 13. A battle with submarines
{Continued on next page)


and aircraft, leading to counter aircraft
attack, began almost at once. And
within 24 hours H.M. “enemy” sub-
marine Taciturn claimed to have sunk
H.M.S. Eagle, Britain’s largest carrier,
and three of the other largest carriers.
The Allied force claimed to have bagged
Taciturn.
x, .. a
By this time operations were in ful
swing in the Narvik area, where lan
fighting was going on and Noiwegian
submarines and destroyers in Narvik
Fjord were hot on the trail of an enemy
cruiser. British and other light naval
craft were testing the defences of Bergen,
which was being attacked by midgets
and frogmen, watched for by all local
fishermen in sight, their boats equipped
with radio. British aircraft were patrol-
ling from Stavanger and Trondhjem, and
the enemy was making savage air attacks
on the C.-in-C.’s H.Q. Bornholm, with
Danish motor-boats and light craft acting
as a screen, was staving off attack from
the Eastern Baltic.
So soon as the exercise was well under
way a ground exercise simulating defence
against a landing in Jutland by sea-borne
forces from Britain (including United
States Marines) was incorporated. The
Continental land-army exercises in the
British zone on the Rhine, which had
employed 200,000 men of several nations,
had just closed.
To add realism to operations a fine
gale blew up and the exercise proceeded
j n rougb seas. The eastern part of the
North Sea, right up to Bodo, 60 miles
beyond the Arctic circle a town de-
stroyed by the Germans in World War
ll—was very lively during the following
10 days.
Also there was plenty ot excitement
in Denmark, where the warlike landing
°f 1500 U.S. Marines on the beach near
Scagen, on the northernmost tip of the
was enlivened by sudde „
and m y S ( er i ous arrival of a Russian
uierchant-ship at the critical moment. It
was like a ma j or p ac ific-war landing.
Among a horde of ships Maoriland’s
Bellona took part.
After it was all over the fleets
assembled in Oslo Fjord for'post-mortems
and discussions. The main objective—the
exercise of the complicated joint-com-
mand in an urgent operation to bring
succor to Scandinavia when suddenly
attacked—was successful, though it was
conceded that the margin of sea strength
was no t enough and fighters not fast
enough.
Difficulties and hitches were confined
to the field in which these normally occur
in naval operations over a wide area—
communications; but this was not sur-
prising, since the exercise was held at a
particularly bad time of the year.
It should give a tremendous fillip to
Scandinavian confidence in N.A.T.O. and
advertise to other people that N.A.T.O.
means business.
POLITICAL POINTS
Although passports were refused for
the phoney Peking “peace” shivoo —and,
earlier, for a similar stunt in Warsaw—
a dozen “union leaders” have been
granted passports to Russia. The differ-
ence, according to Federal Minister Beale,
is that the applicants are “union delegates
going to a genuine trade-unon conference
in Moscow.” That comment is an amaz-
ing example of ignorance in high places.
Doesn’t the Minister know that there are
no genuine trade-unions in Moscow?
A.C.T.U. chairman Monk, whose organ-
isation has refused to take part in the
jaunt, says the trippers are going to
Moscow “to celebrate the revolution,”
and Comrade Dowling, of the Newcastle
Trades Council, who is leading the party,
says they will study wages and living
standards and “examine the attitude of
the Soviet towards world peace.” The
delegation will reach Moscow in time for
the October revolution anniversary on
November 7, when Stalin or his deputy
will promulgate to the world the orders
of the 19th Communist-party Congress,
sitting this week.
© o
Two Independents have entered the
Flinders contest in which the chief rivals
are Liberal Rossiter and “Labor” Ewert.
The freelances are Ronald Hipwell, who
had a shot at the seat last year, and Mrs.
Grace Stratton, who is fighting her third
campaign in 21 months ; her two previous
attempts were the by-election in Balaclava
last year and the Victorian Legislative
Council election four months ago.
• •
In his Flinders by-election speech
Menzies emphasised the hollowness of
“Labor’s” depression-talk by pointing out
that whereas the party is crying calamity
at the present volume of unemployment
—less than one per cent. —in 1937, when
the unions gained a “prosperity loading”
from the Arbitration Court, the figure
was 9.3 p.c. Evatt’s reply to this was
that Menzies had used “carefully-
selected” statistics. How figures applic-
able to the present day and the time of
the prosperity-loading—a most important
landmark in wage-history—could be
described as “carefully selected” the Doc.
didn’t explain.
0 0
Neat farewell remark to Australians
by Colin Clark, economist and lecturer,
now in America: “Everything should be
left unregulated until you can prove the
need for regulation.”
0 0
Because Australia happens to be the
only wheat-exporting country in the
sterling area, wheatgrower pressure-
groups seem to think that it can demand
from sterling countries any price it likes.
What they don’t tell the growers is that
the dollar wheat-exporters U.S.A.,
Canada and Argentina—have thumping
crops and huge carryovers of wheat.
Australia would look foolish trying to
force its own export-price against the
weight of dollar-wheat; U.S.A. and
Canada are just as eager to sell wheat
as we are.
o 0
When Menzies promised in 1949 and
1951 to get more coal he was only promis-
ing what “Labor” had been promising
ineffectually for years. Coal-production
has risen, and now there’s a surplus to be
stockpiled. Is Menzies getting any credit
from his opponents for a promise ful-
filled? No, “Labor” sees it all as a dirty
plot to put coalminers out of work.
0 0
Somebody’s being milked! N.S.W.
Auditor-General shows that the State
Milk Board received £11,448,162 from
sales and “returned to producers
£10,320,480 (90.2 per cent.), equivalent to
an average return of 3s. 3.9 d. per gallon.”
The board’s handling costs were thus
about 4.4 d. a gallon, which, at the aver-
age return to the grower, is just short of
the price of one pint of milk for every
gallon distributed.
0 0
‘Labor” politics in Sydney may be run
by the machine, but when it .comes to
counting ballot-papers they apparently
still use their fingers; voting for the
party’s N.S.W. Senate team closed weeks
ago and they’re still totting-up the prefer-
ences. Senators Arnold and Amour are
“in,” but Donal’ Grant’s fate is still in
the balance—er, the ballot. He missed
out in an earlier ballot three months ago,
but it was declared “no race.”
• •
Drinking hours have been under con-
sideration by the L.-C.P. in Victoria. The
council of the party last week adopted
a motion favoring staggered hours, not
to exceed eight in all, with a final closing-
hour of 10 p.m.
• •
A neat little problem entitled “When
is an acceptance not an acceptance?”
Players: Speaker Lamb of the N. S.
Wales Assembly and W. A. Chaffey, C.P.
member for Tamworth. Preamble: Mr.
Chaffey having alleged that the Minister
for Education had promised that some-
thing would happen “tomorrow” and the
Minister having denied it, the Speaker
intervenes.
Mr. Speaker: Order! It is the accepted
practice of the House that when an allega-
tion is made and is denied by the Minister
or hon. member concerned, his denial is
accepted and that is the end of the matter.
Mr. Chaffey : Mr. Speaker, I accept, the
Minister’s denial.
Mr. Speaker : Order! The hon. member
must not argue with the Speaker. Does
he accept the Minister’s denial?
Mr. Chaffey : I did accept the Minister’s
denial.
Mr. Speaker : Order! Obviously the
hon. member wants to debate it.
Either player to move and mate in one
or swallow the cue.
e •
Political parson Victor James, one of
the two or three Australians who reached
Peking on British passports in time to
lend their ears —and their legs— to Kuo
Mo-jo, was given a chance on Friday
to make his own contribution to peace
and friendship between China and Aus-
tralia. He told the assemblage of eager
peace-seekers that the Japanese peace
treaty, the Anzus Pact and the Pacific
Pact were three components of a war
being planned in the Pacific, and Japan
was the “keystone of American moves
to threaten peace in the Pacific.” The
source of the information is the New
China News Agency, an authority usually
accepted without question by Mr. James
and other fellow-travellers.
• •
The Monte Bello blast shook the seis-
mograph and geiger-counters at Sydney
“Sun” office to such a degree that its first
announcement of the explosion went like
this:
Melbourne, Friday.—Britain’s firoast) at
B.3am local time(lo.3am Sydney Bello
Island (off the Westedn Australian coast)
at Sam local time(lo.3am Sydney time)
today.
Still, the headlines and posters left no
doubt as to what had happened,
• n
When, just over a year ago, Australian
woolgrowers, by a vote of 63,740 to
16,310, knocked back a plan to keep their
wool under Government control, the
Bradford (Eng.) “Wool Record” said
they “administered a distinct shock to the
complacency of those who possess im-
plicit faith in the universal policy of
planned economies.” So complacent
were the sponsors of the plan that the
Commonwealth Government had actually
collected £47 million by a 7% per cent,
levy to establish a fund for the thing.
After the vote the money had to be paid
back.
But you can’t stop would-be con-
trollers as easily as that; the planners
now want the Commonwealth to
set up an outfit, described by Minister
for Commerce McEwen thus: “The
body would be no more than a statistical
service for the purpose of analysing the
composition of the Australian wool-clip
and the values of the various types of
wool.” N.S.W. Graziers’ Association
has announced its opposition. So should
everybody else.
It was here stated (B. 24/9/’52) that
Mr. McEwen’s “statistical body” was
unnecessary, since about a dozen private
and official bodies already publish
weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual
information on wool. And, if the
Minister wants evidence of this he need
only study “Dalgety’s Annual Wool Re-
view,” just published, which covers every
possible aspect of the 1951-52 wool sea-
son, and which is but one sample of the
information available.
Without more delay the Common-
wealth Government, as a Government
opposed to controls and expansion of
bureaucracy, should find out who is
urging its Commerce Minister in this
matter and take the axe to them.
• •
From the jacaranda city:
More than 100 delegates turned up for the
New State conference in Grafton, and the city
went separationist with a bang. Statistics (1950-
51) were issued to show that New England
production income (£192,369,000) would be
exceeded only by the rest of N.S.W., Queens-
land and Victoria —coal £l5 million, the largest
of any State; cattle numbers 200,000 more than
Victoria; forestry £8,551,000, or £2 million
less than Victoria and £l\ million more than
Bananaland; all minerals at £l6 million, only
£450,000 less than Queensland. New England’s
sheep numbers shorn were given as 14,963,000
—2 million less than Queensland. All these are
the figures of a proposed State with three-
quarters the area of Victoria. The “Grafton
Examiner” issued a special number dated
October 1, 1953, to show what a year’s local
rule might do to N.E. development plans.
There wasn’t a line about jockeys, night-clubs,
s.-p. or a liquor commission in it. Cahill has
good reason to tremble.
• •
Last year 26,000,000 fewer fares were
paid by Melbourne tram-users than in
the previous year. There was a similar
downward trend in the number of tickets
issued on Sydney trams and buses.
Opinion is divided whether the main
result of bumping up fares has been to
produce more pedestrians or more scalers.
• •
Hearing that a non-unionist bricklayer
at Caloundra (Q.) was prepared to back
himself to lay 2000 bricks in an ordinary
8 a.m. to 5 p.m. day the Queensland
Bricklayers’ Union secretary said there
was no darg on bricklaying, but 850 was
a good day’s work. That’s a big jump
from what they were saying a year or
so ago.
• •
N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federation is
still beating the air with demands that
the Federal Government should float a
loan of £lOO million for education,
although it must be aware that several
semi-Government loans of only one-
hundredth the size of that figure have
been undersubscribed in the last couple
of months, and that State works are
being drastically cut through lack of loan
funds. The stunt was Red-inspired in the
first place, and still reeks of Moscow —
Sydney is plastered with Communist-
party posters declaiming “School building
stopped. Menzies Must Go.”
• •
H. P. Lazzarini, who died last week,
had been “Labor” M.H.R. for Werriwa,
with one short break, since 1919. A
member of the breakaway Langite group
in 1931, he later returned to the official
fold and held the portfolios of Home
Security and Works in the Curtin and
Chifley Governments. Sixty-eight at the
finish, he had been ill for some time, but
had lately staged a recovery. The end
was sudden. The elder Lazzarini, Carlo
Camillo, now the “Father” of the N. S.
Wales Assembly, is also a sick man and
has been in Lewisham hospital for several
weeks.
• •
Lyle Moore, N.S.W. Liberal president,
doesn’t believe the Cahill Government
has given away Socialism just because it
wants free enterprise to take over the
Kosciusko chalet and build a hotel
there, and also wants it to run the
State tileworks. He adds that establish-
ment by the Cahill railways of a road-
hahlage service and “lethal taxes” im-,
posed on private road-hauliers threaten
to “extinguish” the private men. Does
this mean a Liberal Government would
give road transport a fair go? If so, the
Liberals should say so.
e •
Savjngs Bank statistics don’t suggest
any reason for panic over the financial
condition of the community. In the year
ended August 31 deposits increased by
£56 million. Nor is there any sign that
the increase is tapering off; for the
month of August the rise in deposits was
£4,959,000, which is slightly more than
the average monthly rise for the whole
year.
« •
The N. S. Wales Electoral Commis-
sioner must have a very open mind on
the matter of redistribution of electorates.
Less than three years ago he drew up a
plan which it is reasonable to assume he
thought was a good one. Now he has put
his name to another and vastly different
plan, which again it is reasonable to
assume he thinks a good one. He can’t
have been overruled by his colleagues or
surely he would have put in a minority
report.
• •
Judge Marked, speaking as chairman
of the N. S. Wales Electoral Districts
Commission, says there is no mystery
about the quotas in the proposed redistri-
bution. No ; the mystery is why the Gov-
ernment sought a redistribution at all so
soon after the last one, with which it had
claimed to be perfectly satisfied.
• •
Hurricane in the south:
For about the first time since the Parnell
commission three judges (Sir Edmund Herring,
C.J., and Justices Martin and Gavan Duffy)
are to sit as a royal commission to investigate
political charges—on six affidavits by Victorian
Assembly members which are alleged to have
disclosed to the Crown Law Office a “prima
facie case of serious irregularities by some
members and private citizens” which, “if true,
constitute a serious breach of the privileges of
the House.” The affidavits have not yet been
produced, but one from the Speaker, Sir Archie
Michaelis, as quoted by Liberal leader Norman,
suggested that offers of Agent-Generalships,
immunity from election opposition (with £5OOO
bail provided for fulfilment) and other plums
were being thrown around. Mr. Hollway, in the
debate which decided it, said the appointment
of the commission on charges not specifically
stated to the House “seemed crazy to him.”
Mr. Cain said that the Liberals wanted to “smear
Tom Hollway.” Meanwhile, over in Elysium,
the shade of Albert Dunstan could be heard
moaning at the idea that anybody could even
imagine such things happening in politically
spotless Victoria.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
‘Soc”: In its colored-supplement
magazine of March 19, 1950, Sydney
‘Sunday Sun” ran as a page feature five
'interviews (with photos) presenting
answers to the still-burning question “Is
Sydney a Wicked City?” The answerers
were: “Yes,” Rev. Van Eerde, Dr.
Barton Babbage, Rev. S. A. Eastman;
“No,” Lord Mayor O’Dea, Superinten-
dent W. C. S. Thompson.
“Chink”: One of the major problems
of modern life is the predicament of a
church official who has a quiet pop in a
lottery and brings home the bacon. The
problem was recently too much for an
English choirmaster, who, according to
report, suicided when a horrified parson
had sacked him after he had won £7OO
in a football-pool. An Australian church-
man I knew reacted differently. An elder
of a kirk in a Melbourne suburb, he
pulled off a big prize in Tatts, and was
given the option of resigning his elder-
ship or rejecting the prize. Following
Omar’s advice to “take the cash in hand
and waive the rest,” he turned in both
his elder’s job and his church pew.
Within a year the fellow who took over
the vacant pew collected what’s classed as
a “major” prize. That was too much for
“Were not in the hunt —e's got NYLONS!”
the kirk controllers. Deciding that the
fairies were against them, they ruled that
matters were different as between an elder
and a rank-and-file member of the flock,
and so they allowed the second sinner to
retain both his tainted cash and his magic
pew.
+ + +
*** v ***
“Slim”: A red-hot day in Great Bitter
Lake waiting for an up-canal convoy to
slide past so we could move southward,
We lolled on the flying-bridge under awn-
ings, watched Wog fishermen and drank
cold Tuborg beers. Life was just bear-
able. From the British outpost across
the water a Gloucester Javelin streaked
upward, curled away and sparkled sharply
in the haze. The naked eye caught a
flickering glitter now and then as she
tumbled with poise and finesse through
contours embracing whole horizons,
“Now!” cried the Danish chief-engineer,
“Beer-drinking, before too late it is.” The
Javelin jet became a dot, then a definite
shape. She winged over, veered down,
swung straight and screamed across our
masts, to be on the horizon again for the
next heartbeat. For a moment aerial
grace had changed to fury and utter
abandon. When I dragged my nose off
the deck I saw that the chief’s empty
beaker was intact and giving off a tone
like a tuning-fork. My beaker was shat-
tered down to the beer’s surface. No
liquid spilt till I shifted the beaker.
“Never seen that before,” I said as I
dabbed at cut lips. “Me also not,” the
chief. “Usually wastes it all the beer,
completely.”
“Has your mother gone yet?”
“Clooter”: Since the days when Mistin-
guette, the French comedy actress, insured
her legs, interest in female beauty has
risen to higher levels, so it should be no
surprise that a Californian judge was
called upon to decide a damages suit in
which one actress, having insured her
bust and then called herself “The 50,000-
dollar Treasure-chest” girl, sued a rival
for 150,000 dollars because the rival had
her bust insured and adopted the same
slogan. The judge granted the plaintiff
a preliminary injunction prohibiting the
defendant from using the slogan, saying
that plaintiff had “developed an asset
which should be protected.” Lloyd’s of
London, it was stated, affected the insur-
ance in both cases. These assessors have
a great job!
♦♦♦ ■)£♦
“W.P.T.”: “I Believe in Australia” was
the title given a recent radio-session
sponsored, so the announcer stated, by a
number of patriotic businessmen. First
song put over was a recording by an
American artist!
♦> ❖
“Macnell”: I suspect that “Salty” (B.
24/9/’52) has more of engine-room soot
about him than salt. As his bosun’s-
mate piped “Weigh kedge-anchor,” the
anchor must have already been laid-out.
And that Superman-stoker who lifted
the kedge and threw it overboard (it
would weigh close on 7cwt.) came up the
“midship hatch” —a new exit on me. The
admiral’s cox’n would be one of the most
senior and experienced in the fleet—yet
the clot secured his gleaming craft directly
under an anchor which the ship’s crew
were preparing to get out! Though a
stoker might carry a knife wherewith
to cut anchor-lashings, “Salty’s” salt is
completely dissolved by his final blue —
he had the destroyer “tied-up” at the
wharf. Berthed, secured, alongside, if
you will; but never —shades of every
chief bosun’s-mate —tied-up!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Gar”: Don’t know much about wine-
tasters (B. 24/9/’52), but I lived once
next-door to a tea-taster. A cheerful sort
of bloke, he went off every morning to
his job, which, from what I could make
out, consisted of walking round a table
all day sipping countless cups of tea. No
milk or sugar, of course. When he got
home in the evening his wife used to meet
him at the gate, and inside they would
go to have a nice cuppa. Never saw him
go into a pub or drink anything but tea.
I often wonder in these days of more or
less standardised tea, subsidised by a
benevolent Government, whether such
jobs exist.
❖ ❖ *
“Bo”: My sentimental interest in the
Orient Line’s veteran Ormonde, which on
her maiden voyage on the Australian run
in 1919 carried me back to my native
shores, is now tempered with a perhaps
pardonable vanity. The ship is now here
on her 75th and last voyage. When I
stepped aboard the then pride of the line,
that glistening leviathan built of the
strongest metals by the world’s best crafts-
men, I couldn’t possibly have imagined
that she would go to the breakers before I
would, that my puny chassis would out-
last her, that she would develop arterio-
sclerosis sooner than I. Admittedly, the
old tub can still cut through the water
much faster than I; on the other hand, I
can boast that I haven’t got any
barnacles on me, that my boilers have
not, to my knowledge, got too much scale
on ’em, and that, also, I hope, dry rot
hasn’t yet set in on my upper deck. Per-
haps what hardened the Ormonde’s
arteries before their time was her habit of
letting off steam so much —a vice I long
ago philosophically conquered.
❖ ♦♦♦ *t*
“Stweeler”: There was another “Wild
Colonial Boy” (B. 17/9/’52), and he
hailed from neither Castlemaine (Aus-
tralia) nor Castlemaine (Ireland); “he
came from Glasgow-way.” Old-timers
have told me that the version made
familiar through Will Lawson’s collec-
tion is a prettified one. “Born at Castle-
maine, indeed! Brung up in Castlemaine
—them’s the right words.”
❖ ♦> *X*
“Proof-reader”: The succession of
teen-age lads who have acted as my
assistants —usually high-school-educated,
they are required to read aloud the
“copy,” the while I scrutinise the printed
word—almost without exception have
stumbled at the same words, and have
shown a tendency to accent the second
syllable of words in which the stress
should properly fall on the first. Words
thus maltreated include impetus, infer-
ence, competent, pastoral. In other cases
extra syllables are thrown in or one
already there is dispensed with —“disillu-
sionised” for disillusioned, “adaption”
for adaptation. I know that language
has changed vastly over the centuries
both in meanings of words and in their
pronunciation and spelling. One cause,
I feel sure, could be that misreadings such
as these have in time become accepted as
correct.
❖ *> ❖
“Ceg”: Stephen Schofield’s description
of Australia House, as compared with
Canada House (B. 24/9/’52), rang a bell.
After the depression of the ’3os the
general-manager of an Australian bank
was having a look round the U.S.A. In
a large western city he was conducted
over a most palatial bank-building. It
had everything; bright and lavish fit-
tings, marble staircases, ornate and
gilded decorations, a wonderful lighting- •
system, the last word in strongroom-
doors and so on. When the tour of the
building was over the visitor and his
guide found themselves back in the
sumptuous office of the manager. Here
some cut-glass goblets and a bottle of
Californian wine were produced. This
refreshment having been satisfactorily
dealt with, the two men stepped into the
gilded cage of the elevator and proceeded
to an expensive lunch —“On the house,
of course. The Australian visitor, on
taking his departure, remarked “Well, I
don’t know that we have anything quite
so magnificent as your building. You
American bank-managers certainly know
how to entertain.” The reply shook him.
“Good heavens,” said the host, “I’m not
the manager. I’m the liquidator.”
EUREKA!
There’s various kinds of expertise
For various kinds of persons ;
The mother’s love is the telling of lies —
There’s nobody’s sons like her sons;
Grammarians frown in cap and gown,
Seeking pluperfect tenses,
And Cahill’s life-work would meet its crown
In borrowing money from Menzies.
Then there’s the health-bug, proud though weak :
“I think I’m growing thinner, Ma !”.
But I’ve achieved my topmost peak
In building a model cinema;
They laughed when I sat down to play,
A cold, incredulous laugh :
“You’re making, I thought I heard you say,
A cinematograph ?”
But last night — friends, this is no burlesque —
I saw two figures stand
Black-faced, white-clothed, beside a desk,
Papers and files in hand ;
The flickering light from the old torch-lens
Shadowed them with suspicion
As though they were cooking evidence
For the Sydney beer commission.
But still they moved, as Galileo said.
Though they might have seemed more alive
If, instead of old negative film, I had
Been using film-positive;
And had the motor run twice as fast
And the frames alt registered right.
This little performance might well have been classed
As a new film-house first-night.
Well, maybe I’ve never been much with the gels —
Please don’t all say “That’s true” !
And my rhymes may have mostly been doggerels.
Though some take a different view;
And I’ve never been known to uplift or save
The life of the poor elector ;
But put this one line over my grave :
“He made a film-projector !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
THE BALCONY
There is a balcony across the way
With barriers of wrought-iron hemmed
about,
And many changing seasons, day on day,
Have rusted bar and curve, for Time must
flout
The new and shining strength of man-
made things.
It was no prophet set the forecast down:
A man who found the pattern in a book
Placed above iron bars an iron crown
In days when iron was the strength of
kings,
And now it rusts, and no one turns to
look.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVUES.


“But it's silly , Shirl, WETTING a six-guinea cozzie!”
“Pitt St.”: Back in 1933 I went to
live at a spot just five miles from Sydney's
G.P.O. A man named Stewart was run-
ning a single-decker bus service, con-
ductor arid driver to each bus, fare 5d.,
journey to city 22 to 27 minutes. In
recent years the Government double-
deckers took over the service, but fares
rose progressively until it now costs Is.
But I’m not growling ; I get a longer ride
for the money, the journey now taking
from 35 to 45 minutes. I have put in a
suggestion to the Government which
could, I believe, enhance its transport
revenue. It is, briefly, that magazines and
newspapers be sold on the bus and a
refreshment buffet installed, as is done
on all long-time passenger journeys in
progressive countries.
❖ *X* *t*
“Phil Anthus”: Passing reference to
E. J. Banfield in a recent Bulletin par.
recalls the fact that the centenary of the
birth of “The Beachcomber” occurred on
September 4. It was an event that might
well have been commemorated in some
modest fashion, but if anything ambitious
had been attempted its promoters would
certainly have been haunted by Banfield’s
ghost. For, despite or because of his long
association with newspapers, the lord of
Dunk Island had a marked distaste for
publicity. Two actions in regard to Ban-
field are now desirable. One is that his
grave on the island (which is also that of
his wife) should be made a national
possession. The other is that his books,
which are out of print in both the English
and Australian editions, should be repub-
lished for the benefit of a generation that
knows not the writings of the man who,
more than anyone else, proclaimed the
charm and beneficence of Australia’s
tropical north.
❖ ♦♦♦
“R.W.”: Quartermasters occasionally
move quickly. For four weeks I had
pressed the Q-store for a replacement of
my only pair of field-service trousers,
lost on the way from Libya to Palestine.
Then I was rostered for duty as sergeant-
of-the-guard. At 11 a.m. I casually re-
marked to the R.S.M. that I supposed it
would be all right if I did the guard in
working-dress. He shot into the Q-store
and within a couple of minutes he and
the R.Q.M.S. had disappeared in a three-
ton truck. At 12.30 1 was told to report
to the Q-store —sure enough there was a
pair of f.-s. trousers, perfect fit.
* *> *
“Billjim Poilu” (Burma): A recent
Bulletin par. spoke of Santa Clauses in
Long Bay. During World War II a pal
of mine found himself in Alipore Jail,
Calcutta, charged with, “being a public
servant, he did engage in trade.” While
in clink he met and thoroughly detested
the many political prisoners—a whining
lot—but got to know and like the tough
lot of lifers. Released just before Christ-
mas, he asked the jail superintendant
whether he could provide a treat for the
lifers on Christmas Day. Consent given,
he sent for breakfast lashings of bacon-
and-eggs, with coffee ; for lunch, stuffed
roast goose with all the trimmings, fol-
lowed by plum-pudding. Tea consisted of
a fine assortment of fancy pastries, fol-
lowed by ice-cream. The lifers asked
him to be present at the last meal, and
the super, allowed them to dress in their
civvies and come to his large office to
meet and thank their benefactor. They
had prepared a lengthy typed “testi-
monial” which the toughest lifer —a mur-
derer—was appointed to read out. He
got through the first few lines and burst
into tears ; another guy had a go at it
with the same result. My pal grabbed the
document, saying “For God’s sake stop,
or you’ll have me crying, too.” The
senior lifer then said “Sir, we cannot
repay you for what you have done for
us today ; all we can do is to tell you to
back number five in the third race at
Calcutta races tomorrow.” My friend
ignored the tip, but number five won all
right.
❖ * ❖
“T.McN.”: Like “Spokeshave” (B.
1/10/’52) I must protest against heresy
expressed in the “Australian Medical
Journal” —in particular the comment that
a tot of rum in cold weather does no
good, and that “it is the duty of the
medical profession to issue warnings
against this mistaken and often fatal
notion.” The writer advancing this
opinion claims that what the rum does is
drive the blood from “vital organs” to
the surface of the skin, thus causing the
hide to glow but depriving the vital
organs of essential heat. As a confirmed
disciple of hot rum as a comforting
stimulant and warder-off of colds and
ham o KJ =prMl£fs
“That looks a bit tight—try this.”
’flu I refuse to believe that it is merely a
flushing of the epidermis which I experi-
ence. In any event how the blazes can a
tot warm the skin area of the body unless
it warms inwardly? The writer cites 1812
as evidence, holding that in Napoleon’s
retreat from Moscow “There would have
been more survivors if brandy had been
absent.” Brandy! This must be one
who doesn’t know the difference between
spirit distilled from grapes and that from
sugar. Away with him!
❖❖ ' ❖
“Findy”: Accustomed since childhood
to the use of “Dicken” in the sense quoted
by “Taswegian” (B. l/10/’52), I had
never thought of it as peculiar to my
home State, though, come to think of it,
I haven’t heard it much since I left
Adelaide. But even if Soustralians have
made the expression their own they didn t
originate it. It goes back beyond Shak-
speare and is merely a euphemism for
Old Nick. “Dicken he did” is thus
identical with “The devil he did,” though,
as with many perverted curses, few users
of the term realise it. “By Dickens” and
“What the Dickens” are variant forms
and have no more to do with the novelist
than “Great Scott!” has with Sir Walter.
In The Merry Wives of Windsor Mrs.
Page says “I cannot tell what the
dickens his name is.” At which, to prove
myself still a good Soustralian, I must
remark “Dicken she couldn’t!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sowthay”: That “You’re a liar . . .
You really are” play on the name of
Eurelia (B. 17/9/’52) is said to have
originated with Sir Charles Todd, father
of the Overland Telegraph and of count-
less puns. On one occasion, as Director
of Posts and Telegraphs, he told a deputa-
tion that it was no good giving Orroroo
(which lies a little south of Eurelia) a
larger post-office, as it would never have
more than two letters. But his favorite
pun was always trotted out when his
hostess offered him a cup of tea. “Cer-
tainly, Mrs. Smith,” he would say, “I’d
be odd without my T.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Rann”: In the Western Desert just
after Alamein we were listening to a
8.8. C. show “Hands Across the Sea.”
Comedian Max Miller had just been in
bother with the 8.8. C. over the tone of
his jokes, but was as irrepressible as
ever. He informed listeners that he had
two joke-books, the “white” one passed
by the 8.8. C. and the “blue” one which
he knew his listeners wanted. His first
few jokes were apparently from the
“white” book, but he had just started on
one which was obviously from the “blue”
book when there was a click, then three
or four minutes’ silence. When the
8.8. C. came back a cultured voice
apologised for the “unavoidable break in
our transmission.” We are still wondering
what else was in the “blue” book.
*i* ❖ ❖
“Shimloch”: What has become of
the ancient art of whistling—l mean
the whistling that took the form of
speech? One lad in my hamlet had such
a pierqing whistle, and used it with such
clarity, that even the uninitiated knew
what he was “saying” from two blocks
away; and sometimes he was using
expressions distinctly unsuitable as public
proclamations. His technique was to
bring the upper teeth down over the
lower lip. The rest of us adopted the
orthodox method of pursing out both
lips and blowing—one blow for each
syllable of a word—-and that, as I can
testify, was sufficiently effective. It
chanced that a sturdy lass of the village
was once seen wearing stockings of dif-
ferent colors, and thereby became known
as “Odd-socks.” One Saturday night as
a team of us were “doing the block” I saw
the wench on the opposite footpath and
indiscreetly whistled the term to her. Half
an hour later, as I was airing the wisdom
of 14 years in a football argument, a
heavy hand caught me fairly on an ear
decorated with a hearty chilblain.
“There,” a feminine voice grated, “that'll
teach you to call me ‘Odd-socks’! ” No,
I didn’t offend again; but even now I
have a lingering spot of pride in the fact
that my “whistle-talk” had been clear
enough to be readily understood.
“Sack”; Ever since he was demobbed
from World War II my younger brother
has been a close neighbor of mine. Last
Sunday morning he came marching in the
gate like a man who has something to
say very urgently. “I’ve intended to tell
you this for about eight years,” he said ;
“you’re an idiot!” The statement was
far from original, but, thinking he might
have a new approach to a hackneyed
theme, I asked for evidence. It came:
“I’ve just been rereading some letters I
received in the islands. This one was
from you. I’d written trying to tell you
we were in Wau, but to beat the censor
I put: ‘Met a cobber I knew in
Wauchope. There is no hope of leave
yet.’ Get it?—Wau-hope ; no hope and
that leaves Wau. Well, here’s your fat-
headed reply”—he pointed to a line —
“ ‘1 don’t remember your ever being >n
Wauchope.’ ”
THE UNFORGIVABLE
“A man’s social offence has to be one of
enormity for him to suffer ostracism in modern
community life.”— Women’s paper.
You might be one of those he-men
Who use the strong-arm on the
“strife,”
Blacking her optic now and then
To liven up your married life.
Opinion wont be mobilised
■Against you, nor with blackened
shame
Will you by all be ostracised.
In fact, you may be eulogized
By those who’d like to do the same.
An inconsiderate citizen,
You could a civic canon flout
By burning backyard rubbish when
Neighbors have hung their washing
out.
Or, worse than this, quite earnestly,
With brutal candidness, elect
To tell some women, over tea.
Just what you guess their age might be
And still walk out with head erect.
I even knew a man who went
Into a pub at close of day,
And, though he had no fell intent,
And sought no rancor to display,
In reaching out to get his own
(Even as you or I might do).
He skittled someone’s beer. Atone
He didn’t. Yet I can depone.
In truth, he still is nodded to !
Yet one sure way there is by which
Full ostracism will be yours,
When properly you’ll “queer your pitch,”
And everyone around abjures
Your friendship: Simple it is, quite,
To fall into the trap, I know:
If you’d be cast into the night,
A pariah, an Ishmaelite,
Agree to judge a baby show.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
James Hackston: Back in the Boer War
days the Albury “Banner” (B. 10/9/’52)
was the first paper I ever read; as a boy
I passed the “Banner” premises many a
time with my weekly load of flour and
pollard on my back. Bulletin writer
John Farrell, author of How He Died,
wrote verses for the “Banner,” and,
according to Bert Stevens, Farrell's
literary career may be said to have begun
in Albury. And the town itself has some
claim to literary fame. While there
Farrell wrote Ephemera: An Iliad of
Albury —his first independent publica-
tion. Then there was Thomas Alexander
Browne (Rolf Boldrewood), who was a
magistrate in Albury ; on many occasions
Browne went driving past me as I trudged
by the roadside —with more pollard.
Bearded, he sat as straight as a ramrod,
and to this day I can still see the spokes
of his wheels glittering in the sun as he
went flashing past. One afternoon he
flew past my father and me, and as he
stirred up the white dust, Father swore
that he’d nearly been run over, and he
thereupon entertained the famous author
with a gifted burst of adjectival splendor.
On that day Browne heard the voice of
the future “Father” of my Bulletin
stories. Years after, at his home in Mel-
bourne, I related the incident, much to
Browne’s amusement. Then we talked
Albury. Coming to myself (if I may be
allowed to join history with Farrell and
Boldrewood), if future historians of
Albury would care to dig into my
Bulletin yarns they will find quite a lot
of the old town and thereabouts winking
out at them. I, too, was a resident of
Albury at one time, so the town can claim
three literary blokes as part of its past.
Should it ever erect a statue to the three
of us, I, myself, could be shown humping
my pollard.


The PERFECT Port
at the POPULAR price
df
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
Captain T. V. Roberts swallows the
hook after over half-a-century blue-water-
ing, most of it with Shaw, Savill. Young
Roberts got more than his cut of salters
when the four-masted barque his father
skippered and in which he was an
apprentice was wrecked on the Tas-
manian coast in 1905. Under the White
Ensign in War I, Roberts commanded
the Hobsons Bay and Largs Bay in the
peace, and had Arawa when the White
Ensign was again hoisted on his gaff,
Arawa thus becoming an Admiralty trans-
port for War 11. When he lands in
Australia this month —from a passenger-
cabin —the skipper will berth in Queens-
land.
The studious face of George Mack,
here Lambarted, has been peering into
specimen-cases since its owner, with the
Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders,
helped make a specimen of Wilhelm’s
ambitions. On being demobbed Mack
worked in the famed Hunterian Museum
in Glasgow, shipped to Australia, and in
between curating Melbourne’s stuffed
birds and fishes graduated in science (with
majors in zoology and geology) at Mel-
bourne University. With 23 years’ experi-
ence behind him he shifted to Brisbane,
to become that city’s museum director in
1946. Now he’s busily and happily
MUSEUM DIRECTOR
engaged installing public displays on
modern lines. Fifty-three last week,
hobby—and hobby-horse—the conserva-
tion of Australian fauna and flora.
“Cauboy”: Those few enthusiasts who were
in at the late F. W. Thring’s heroic attempt to
produce an Australian film-art in the burnt-out
shell of His Majesty’s, Melbourne, are saying
“I told you so!” It is 25 years since Hiring
sold his Hoyts interests and embarked on his
altruistic dream; I can see him now, cigar in
mouth, walking up and down in front of the
camera directing his latest opus. “Why don’t
you shoot, man?” “We will, Mr. Thring, when
you’re out of the field of vision.” He gathered
round him all the local talent—C. J. Dennis,
Pat Hanna, Kathleen Goodall, Jack O’Hagan,
Gladys Moncrieff, the Sundowners’ Quartette,
etc. —and poured out largesse in a lavish
manner. But, except for one success, Australia’s
first talkie features failed to feature.
Thring lost a fortune, though he didn’t seem
to mind that so much as the artistic failure. A
few weeks ago Pat Hanna was asked to send
some Australian films to the film festival at
Olinda —he dug out of the vaults a total of 40
minutes. Although some famous foreign films
were on the programme Hanna’s lot ran away
with the show. Jim Thornley then took them,
with others, to Warrnambool and Bendigo. He
had only to show the box-office returns to
managers in Melbourne to start an Australian
film renaissance. “Diggers in Blighty” is show-
ing at the Esquire, with “On Our Selection”
to follow; “Waltzing Matilda” is on at the
Lyceum; and Hoyts’ is sending “Ticket In
Tatt’s” and “The Sentimental Bloke” on a
nationwide tour.
Soon film-fans who didn’t know they were
fed up with Yankee humor will be splitting
their sides at the artless antics of George
Wallace, Bert Bailey and other Australian actors,
some of them long dead, in “Gospel According
to Racing” and a dozen others which have
never been released. The revival of “Diggers
in Blighty” in Melbourne established a local
record, exceeding Charlie Chaplin’s.
“B.”: The first one-man Australian art
exhibition in Japan was held when the
Takashimaya department store, Tokyo’s
largest emporium, presented 40 of George
Finey’s latest pictures. It was appropriate
that Finey’s work, noted for its decora-
tive quality, should be the first offering
to lay before a people who are past-
masters of decor. The subject-matter of
the pictures is mainly Australian native-
flowers, seedpods and berries, with an
occasional abstract design, and one or
two of the bunyip. The exhibition was
officially opened by ex-Prince Tokugawa,
brother of the Emperor, and H. C. Men-
zies, of the Australian Embassy in
Japan, gave an introductory address.
“Ek Dum” farewells an old friend:
Passed on in Sydney, at 71, after nearly 50
years’ association with advertising and land-
journalism, Ralph Shields Maynard. Son of a
New South Wales Director of Education, he was
educated as an industrial chemist at Sydney
University, but chose a more adventurous early
career as a supercargo and emissary in 8.-P.’s
little Pacific ships. Fifty years ago he knew, and
occasionally wrote about in paragraph, verse
and story, the islands from the New Hebrides
to the Marshalls and Hong Kong. Then he
came ashore, became advertising manager of
a couple of big firms and founded his own
business in Brisbane over 40 years ago. His
hobby was the land and cattle. He founded
the “Live Stock Bulletin” in 1911 and was one
of the earliest reorganisers of the dairy-cattle
herd-book societies, which owe much of their
strength to his efforts. He consistently fought
for lucerne-growing and pasture-improvement
and chemical fertilisers at a period when the
average farmer regarded them without
enthusiasm. The Sydney and Brisbane Royal
Shows owed more than a little to his help and
interest. In advertising he had much to do
with the organising of the profession and
establishing its ethics, and was the first president
of the Advertising Association of Australia.
His work for public movements and charity
was vast and entirely unobtrusive. As president
of the Prisoner-of-war Relatives Association
his labors during World War II were heavy
and continuous. An advertising man whose
clients included some of the greatest firms in
Australia, he was one of the best-known and
-liked figures in rural life of two States, but,
his well-bred conservatism dictating that he
should not advertise himself, his name was
rarely seen in print.
Landed in Fremantle, Commander
Aubrey Dennis comes from 24 years of
directing the Nigerian Marine Depart-
ment. Another landing he remembers
was the dawn one of April 25, which he
watched from an Admiralty transport.
Then a cadet, Dennis has since com-
manded most types of vessels, from tugs
to passenger-ships. A bluff 52, he’s a
Younger Brother of Trinity House.
“Trinco”: Being what he was —a steel-
nerved racer who desired to place his
country’s engineering nose ahead of the
world-tape as much as he strove to place
his car’s or boat’s—it is probable that
John Rhodes Cobb could not have wished
for death other than the way he met it;
a few seconds after smashing the world’s
water-record. Though unrecognised as a
record —he needed to make a return run
—Cobb hurtled his red-and-silver jet-
propelled Crusader at 206.8 m.p.h. The
engineering prestige resultant on a
country breaking a world record is
enormous: Cobb had served Britain
brilliantly in this respect. Holder of the
land-record in 1947 (394.2 m.p.h.), the first
to exceed 400 m.p.h, on land, between
1932-39 he broke all world records for
time and distance up to 24 hours. Of
Eton and Cambridge, the fastest man on
wheels had the somewhat prosaic jobs of
joint-managing-director of a London fur
firm and vice-chairman'of the Falklands
Island Co. He was 52.
Lodging his ledgers in retirement, Cyril
Abey, Commissioner of the Rural and
Industries Bank of Westralia, first
wrestled with accounts in a Hobart bank ;
went overseas as an original Anzac in
1914, won his commission before that
show ended and was in Perth at the head
of the R. and I. (then the Agricultural)
Bank when Hitler let go. Abey was a
major when he was invalided back from
the Middle East. A husky 65.
Brisbane’s Anglican Archbishop Halse
drove a car at Charleville the other day
—the first time he had driven one since
1925. At 71 the ex-Bush Brother can still
drive only Model-T Fords. In Charle-
ville for the Bush Brotherhood’s half-
centenary, younger Brothers faced hid*
with an ancient, but going, Model-T
utility truck. His genial Grace (who once
drove a “T” from the Gulf to Melbourne)
jumped on the three pedals and drove
Lizzie along the Warrego banks and down
Charleville’s main street at a rattling pace.
At the moment he’s touring the North
Queensland area he first patrolled on
horseback as a Bush Brother in 1913.
Killed in a car accident in Vienna, John
Dale was perhaps Melbourne’s best-
known and most indefatigable Medical
Officer of Health —certainly its tallest.
Before leaving in 1950 for Holland, there
to examine Dutch migrants. Dale had
been in the Melbourne post for 23 years ;
he had come to it from a similar job in
Perth. A host of health activities took in
energetic advancing of slum-abolition,
pre-natal and dental clinics, and, parti-
cularly, children and their food. He
long fought for the introduction of
the Norwegian Oslo-lunch for nippers,
lectured for 20 years on public health at
Melbourne University, and had been
chairman of the Victorian National Fit-
ness Council. His twin loves were music
and painting; his office in Melbourne
Town Hall was lined with pictures of the
Meldrum school. A graduate of Bir-
mingham University, with the 2nd and
4th British Armies in War I, he was 67.
A Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) native, Albert
Ritchie was taken to Scotland young, be-
gan his publishing career 50 years ago
with William Stevens, and returned to
Australia to join Cassell’s in Melbourne.
Forty-four years ago he joined Angus
and Robertson, when there were 40 on
the staff; it has since multiplied sixfold,
apart from the team out at Halstead
Press. In his time with A. & R. he has
seen almost every modern writer of note
from Lawson and Paterson onwards
come, many of them go. Some have
smiled on him, and some, like Randolph
Bedford, have stormed at him —Randolph
once narrowly refrained from pulling the
place down when they remaindered one of
his works and Ritchie blandly offered to
sell him the lot at half cost. His chair-
man-of-director’s office is full of
souvenirs—Henry Lawson’s silver watch
bought out of Henry’s first royalty from
the firm and presented by Mary Gilmore ;
the gold key to A. & R.’s shop in Mel-
bourne presented to him when he opened#
it last year; hundreds of autographed
Australian books on his shelves, in them-
selves a history of the success-story of
PUBLISHER
Australian publishing. Some of them
date back almost as far as Sid McCure,
the Book Club Librarian who is celebrat-
ing his diamond jubilee with the firm,
and farther than the three other em-
ployees who have been there for 50 years.
Ritchie is one of the most cheerful and
philosophic of men ; and anybody who
is that after being mixed up for 44 years
with authors can claim to be brother to
Superman. Portrait by Prior.
Figured by Lusby the night the econo-
mist left for the U.S., Colin Clark will
take up a temporary post lecturing in
economics at the University of Chicago,
and thence to a permanent post at
Oxford. From 1938 to a few months
ago economic adviser to the Queensland
Treasury, Clark resigned through a diver-
gence of ideas on decentralisation and
•rural development. With his books on
economics enjoying world-wide circula-
tion, Clark has had his figure-formulas
ECONOMIST
sought by India, Pakistan, Ceylon and
international organisations. Dad to
eight sons, he’s well known in the
northern State for his friendly accessi-
bility and his disregard for the restric-
tions of sartorial convention.
The approval by Queen Elizabeth of
her profile for use as a hallmark on gold-
and silverware made in Britain in
Coronation Year adds distinction to the
already distinguished career of sculptor
George Paulin. Born at apparently the
worst-named place on earth, Mucklart
(Scotland), Paulin studied at the Edin-
burgh College of Art before polishing-off
in Rome, Florence and Paris. With a British
regiment in France, and, later, the R.A.F.
in Italy in War I, Paulin has sculpted
war memorials throughout the U.K., as
well as those to the Bth Argylls and the
51st Highland Division, both at Beaumont
Hamel, in France. From published
photographs, Paulin’s latest work has
nothing of the lifeless plaster-cast —it is
alive with the animation, freshness and
personality of the young Queen.
Into the Silence;
In Canberra, at 48, Dr. Thomas Penberthy
Fry, a noted Queensland legal light who had
been in charge of legal-research in the Depart-
ment of External Territories since 1948. An
Oxford and Harvard man, six years m the
War II A.I.F. (with a “mentitpn” for Middle
East work), Fry had been working on a review
of the laws of Papua and New Guinea. Son
of a former Queensland M-P-, he was A.D.C.
to the State Governor between 1933-37.
In Fremantle, at 64, Frank Ball, son of the
Captain Ball who ran a lightering business at
the port. Among the waterfront’s best-known
divers, Frank was in many salvage operations,
one of the biggest being the recovery of gear
from the R.M.S. Orizaba, which sank otf
Garden Island, near Fremantle, in 1905.
In Melbourne, Major-General Frank Keith
Simmons, G.O.C. of the Singapore fortress
during the fateful years 1941-42. After the
fall he was interned at Changi, and later in
Formosa, Japan and Manchuria. In War 1
he served in a Highland regiment in France
and Russia. After War II he purchased a
property at Metung, on the Gippsland Lakes.
In Fremantle, at 72, Horace Albert Rickards,
ironmaster and marine-engineer. Fremantle
representative on the Australasian Institute ot
Marine and Power Engineers and a member
of the W.A. Metropolitan Ironmasters’ Associa-
tion, he will be remembered by many ship’s
engineers who owe to him their guidance to
the engine-room. . ,„ _
At Mt. Gambler (S.A.), at 89, Colonel F. H.
Howland, the last commanding-ofiicer of the
eight contingents that went to the Boer War
from S. Australia. He commanded the first,
under Lord Roberts. Howland’s 28 years ot
secretarying the local R.S.L. is claimed as an
Australian record.
In Perth, at 78, Edmond Patrick Mackey,
one of the State’s best-known mining-engineers.
With engineering qualifications gained in Vic-
toria. he went to W.A. in 1896 to a staff job on
Fraser’s mine at Southern Cross. Two years
later he invested in three mines in the Yilgarn
field, beyond Coolgardie, and held down a
double job when the Bullfinch boomed in 1910.
One of the promoters of the company, he also
did handy publicity work as a reporter
especially engaged by Melbourne “Argus.


\\
/V\y 00<DRP / Cfliep, tt/M eiG FSUUA WZ'SBbGF COMiN UP %
comb ms9A(j£'
4i(M sAy, Top eeczgr'
V /\lcw\6££ onb fteioFLiry'
V \lesy HUGH HUGH /
V £)p6£AT(OM HOM 6 FfZONr'
My C£lP£S, CHIBF, THIS ONB fZBAL BAP FBLLA , Hin\ SAY
, . / *
MCTHBfR- /M- LAW BBLONOA YOU COM/N HOMB '
MONTE BELLO AND ALL THAT


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gulliver”: I’ve never admired the
self-possession of the English Public
School type more than the day, 30 years
ago, when two carloads of visitors called
unexpectedly at a bachelor station south
of the Kimberleys owned by one of the
breed. It was a summer Sunday after-
noon. The cars —containing, as they
say in the sheep-sale advertisements, mixed
ages and sexes —drew up between the
homestead and the bath-house, which, as
usual, was some little distance away under
the tankstand. That their arrival was
totally unforeseen and undetected was
amply demonstrated by the next event —
the emergence of
the station - owner
from the bath-house,
completely in a state
of nature and with a
towel in his hand.
One second later an
already sufficiently-
embarrassing situa-
tion was made even
worse confounded
by a young and not-
uncomely gin, also
in the raw, issuing
from the bath-house.
Eve squeaked and
bolted for the scrub. In the cars, jaws
dropped and eyes popped. With a degree
of aplomb that would have put a diplomat
to shame, the gentleman draped himself
in the towel, bowed graciously and spoke.
“I admit,” he said, “that the situation is
a trifle awkward, and you are welcome
to think what you like. I assure you,
however, that everything is quite all right
—she is only a friend of mine!” That
visit was planned as a surprise-party. If
certainly was.
* * * *
“Chicola”: Gridiron, now 17 years old,
won another race at a Katherine (N.T.)
meeting. Gridiron has been entered for
26 races over the years and has won 26
times. So at 17 he’s undefeated, and the
grand old chap truly loves a race. Any
old pigskin-polisher find a better record
than this?
* H: * *
“Betcha”: “It’ll do. It’s only a bush
job.” I heard the words back in my
youth when a couple of builders put up
two rooms and a skillion on the little
clearing I’d made. And I’ve been hearing
them ever since. “What’s he want?
Material for his dairy?” a bloke called,
when I visited a down-country mill.
“Well, pull soms bits out of the rubbish-
dump there. They’ll do for a bush job.”
Furniture, machinery, tools, material —it
seems that anything with stains, dints or
other small defects will be quite satis-
factory when the goods are merely going
into the outer areas. The only thing one
can really depend on grading into the top
rank is the price. Floor-covering damaged
along one edge: “Won’t matter,”
mumbles the boss hurriedly to the sales-
man. “It’s only going up the bush.” A
chaff-house roof that leaks, a door that
won’t close, rafters with insufficient lap
that will send them facing down before
many years, and a four-quid-a-day man
mutters nonchalantly as he bangs at a
bent nail: “Aw, it’ll do. Only a bush
job, anyway.” A haystack with a wild list
to starboard, new cattle-yards with too-
short bolts, bad-fitting corners, gates that
sag —“What’s it matter? It’s only a
bush job.” For nearly a lifetime I’ve
lived with the words; and sometimes, as
I grow older, I wonder. If later I make
the right place I wouldn’t be surprised if
I heard the Recording Angel say: “All
right, shove the old blighter in a back
corner somewhere. Anywhere will do.
He’s only a bush job.”
* * * *
“Vet”: Talking of bushmanship, there
are spots in this country that hold plenty
of traps. Take the time Steve and Charlie
fished a stretch of the Victoria River
(n.-e. Vic.). Casting hole for hole, they’d
worked upstream for an hour or more
without a bite ; then they came on a kid
fishing the water ahead. With grunts of
disgust they grabbed in their lines and
hurried on. “No, it’s not a bit o’ use y’
fishin’ behind me,” agreed the youngster.
“What about youse two cuttin’ over the
spur and startin’ above the bend?”
They moved off, clambered through scrub
for 20 minutes or so and dropped down
towards the river again. “Gripes, there’s
another blasted kid,” snorted Charlie.
“Come on, we’ll get over the next ridge’
too, and cut in above him.” Followed
another half-hour of scratches and tangled
lines, then the pair again made the river-
bank. Hole after hole they tried, then,
looking ahead, Charlie once more spat his
disgust. “Strike me, there must be a
whole fambly of ’em,” he growled.
“Yair,” scowled Steve. “And this’n’s
dressed the same as them other two.
Why, dammit, Chari, it’s the same kid.
He’s cut ahead of us, be cripes.” “So
that’s his game, heh?” Charlie’s face
matched Steve’s for grimness as the pair
bore down purposefully on the youngster.
The kid looked up in surprise. “Gee, it’s
youse blokes again,” he exclaimed, as he
unhooked a two-pounder. “Thought y’
wus cuttin’ over two-mile bend. What
y’ come back for?”
* * * *
“L.A.P.”: My home is about 20 miles
from the Grampians in Victoria, and I
have noticed that whenever a bank of
white cloud appears along the base of
the mountains of a morning, extending
some distance up the range but never
reaching the top, we invariably have rain
within 48 hours, though it may be fine
and sunny when this condition is noted.
Does this apply to all mountain ranges,
or is it a long series of coincidences?
* * * *
“Fairf”: My thanks to “Kros” for his
information on the eyesight of birds (B.
24/9/’52), but can anybody tell me
definitely whether birds have a sense of
smell? I believe budgerigars have. My
reasons: A patch of seeding-grass grows
close to my aviary. If I walk from it to
the wire there is no avian excitement in
“If I could reach that blasted reverse lever I'd get somewhere"
the cage; but should I pick a handful of
the delectable fodder the shrill whistlings
will even bring the sitting hens from the
nestboxes. I’ve tried concealing the
handful or coming from behind the
aviary with it, but the reception com-
mittee is always waiting. Smell must be
the answer, and it is really not so remark-
able, since even a human can smell
freshly-cut grass. And here’s another little
observation: of two food-containers, a
terra-cotta dish and a wooden trough,
the latter is always empty after one day,
the other scarcely used. Why the prefer-
ence—because wood is a natural perch,
or simply because it’s softer on the birds’
tootsies?
* * * *
“Ceg”: Like “Rocky Ayers” (B.
24/9/’52) another tired and dusty traveller
came to the end of his day’s tramp.
However, there was no pub to gladden his
“Quaite a hally hangover, ain't it, Liz?"
eyes ; only a very small country school
closed for the holidays. It was out in the
Bland country of N.S.W., the day a
summer sizzler. There was a good fire-
place, a clump of trees to shade his camp
from the still hot and setting sun, and,
best of all, what promised to be a plentiful
supply of water from the corrugated tank
which stood close to the school-building,
A magnificent thought struck him. The
school would not be reopening for some
weeks, so why not a nice cool dip in the
tank before getting the billy going? A bit
more dust in the water would mix well
with the larvae, gum-leaves and other odds-
and-ends already in it and could do no
u J , r,, , , ,
harm. Whistling cheerfully, he dumped
his swag and peeled off, then climbed out
~ i-i f . u- u u
on the limb of a tree which overhung
. it" • . ■ . °
Lnlilation T'lef go TtooktmTo
5 . ’ , ® j , ... r ,
seconds to get out, cooked like a crayfish.
* * * *
“Kelms”; A recent question on a quiz
session was: What are the blackboy.and
the grass-tree? The accepted answer
was: “They’re Westralian wildflowers.”
I dunno. Some confusion probably arises
from the fact that what is the blackboy
in W.A. is called the grass-tree in the
eastern States, whereas in W.A. we have
both a blackboy and a grass-tree. The
blackboy has the resinous-covered wood
in the form of “leaves” radiating from
a spongy core, and it has a spike any-
thing up to 10ft. high growing from its
top. During spring that spike is covered
with a white blossom which is so strik-
ing that such spikes figure prominently in
ice-packed samples of the State’s wild-
flowers. So I suppose the blackboy can
be called a wildflower. The W.A. grass-
tree, however, is different. True, it be-
longs to the same species, and it has the
characteristic leaf-formation in its
“wood,” but instead of being brittle and
gum-covered the “wood” is soft and
woolly. And the grass-tree hasn’t got a
spike; instead, it has a few small drum-
sticks growing from its top. Moreover,
the early settlers, who couldn’t do much
with the blackboy except burn it, made a
lot of use of the grass-tree. Laid side-
by-side they made good stable floors, and
they were ideal for the walls for pig-
sties. The pigs couldn’t rip their tough
fibres, and they’d never rot. So far as I
know, termites wouldn’t touch them,
either. Altogether, a very useful plant,
yet recently when I asked a country kid
if they still used them down Coolup way
he didn’t know what I was talking about.
* * * *
“Mudbank”: I’ve seen stranger things
in the bush than a sheep chasing a dog
(B. 17/9/’52). Up on a Murchison
(W.A.) station I once saw a rabbit chas-
ing a dingo. They passed me at a terrific
speed, the dingo ahead by about Bft.
and losing ground, but not so fast that I
didn’t notice the expression borne by
each animal, and the funny thing was
that the dingo being chased looked
fierce, while the rabbit, the chaser, looked
frightened. Never having seen rabbits
hunting dingoes before, I can only
assume that this is the normal state
of affairs, and that when a rabbit is
being chased it wears a fierce look.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: If you would study
a termites’ mound, stop thinking of
it as a heap of earth filled with
galleries along which move strings of
soldier and worker insects, with a
queen in the centre to lay the eggs.
Regard the nest itself as a live
animal, anchored to one spot. The
galleries in it are the blood-vessels;
the workers which move along them
act as do the red corpuscles in the
bloodstream, while the soldiers
correspond to the white corpuscles.
No liquid is required to float them
along, however, as they have legs;
so no heart is needed. Neither are
lungs, since each corpuscle-insect
does its own breathing. The queen
corresponds to the bone marrow of
an animal, in which blood corpuscles
are formed; she is definitely not to
be thought of as the reproductive
organ. Reproduction takes place by
sending out a young, fertilised female
to start a new nest-mound, which'
corresponds to a tree starting from a
fertile seed. There is no central brain in
the nest; instead, each insect’s nervous
system has a brain-centre which is capable
of set reactions to certain circumstances,
just as the eye of an animal winks autc-
matically to protect the sight fro®
injury. Otherwise, the insects act ®
unison just as do the body-cells of an
animal.
BULLANT
He likes to be alone,
Go to work on his own,
Walks with slow dignity;
This heavyweight,
Calm as a magistrate,
Tailored impeccably.
But all the same
He’s game,
Bill Bullant!
If anyone makes free,
Off comes his coat,
Up go his hands,
And there he stands
Waiting to clout
You, me,
Or an elephant.
Yesterday
I got in his way;
And by his looks I read his talk,
Him standing on my garden walk:
“Get out, you little cur,” he said,
“I’ll paste your hide.”
And, yes, I hung my head
And stepped aside
For that great bully—
Game as Ned Kelly.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Old-timer”; Word came down from
the homestead that a Bush Brother was
coming on the Sunday, and the boss
expected us to be shaven and clean and
attend a service in the woolshed at 11 a.m.
Incipient revolt at once became apparent,
the chief ground of resentment being that
it was summer-time, the cod were on in
the bend below Tammit, and a man who
nursed sheep all the week deserved
Sunday to himself. Further, as Pocket-
knife put It, “Whatinell’s the good of any-
one tryin’ f save us? We’re too far gone! ”
At 9 a.m. on the Sunday the boss’s wife
and daughters prepared the wool-table
with white cloths and vases of gum-tips
and flowers. The middle daughter—the
prettiest one—came to the hut at 9,30 and
invited us up to morning-tea. Trapped,
we hurriedly shaved and put on our best
clobber, and trooped up to the homestead,
where we partook of tea, cakes and con-
versation. At 10.46 a cloud of dust rushed
across the plain to the homestead gate and
out of it came a motor-bike with a dusty,
goggled Bush Brother aboard. The girls
fussed around him, for he was young
and fair. “Never mind, please. Never
mind,” he protested at their attempts to
brush him down. He gave us a look and
added “I came through Tammit. They’re
pulling fish out like Sidling peas. If it’s
all the same to you Fd like to hold a
service on the river-bank.” Ten minutes
later the only sign of life on that station
was a ragged old frill-neck sunning itself
on a gate-post.
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: The psychology of the
sheepdog mind at times takes working
out. A fellow X know near Penola (S.A.)
who has a large “scrub block” still has
to use good dogs and horses to round up
his sheep. One day out in the yacca and
sand his best kelpie, which he claimed to
be the best mustering dog in the district,
when jumping through a five-wire-and-
barb fence got hooked up and was left
suspended by a hind-leg. The owner
spurred the chestnut to an urgent gallop,
but to release the demented yelping tyke
he had to snick the flesh away with a
knife. Although Barney soon worked
again, it was a long while before he could
be induced to follow a horse, and even
now—years afterwards—that kelpie won’t
follow a chestnut.
* * * *
“Edx”: I’ve been in a sealed room
when there were no Chinamen in it, and
I can’t say I noticed that it was extra
dark because of their absence (B.
10/9/’52). Real darkness is only found
underground, at the bottom of deep
mines, which are far darker than surface
caves. In the days before the power-
ful modem electric helmet-lamp, with its
great batteries carried on the miner’s
back, the only light that was of much
use in penetrating the everlasting black-
“Here's the washerwoman , Ma!"
ness of a mine was the intense white
flame of the carbide (acetylene) lamp.
Years ago on a W.A. mine a surveyor
was investigating some old faces which
had not seen a light for many years.
Some thousands of feet below the sur-
face, and separated from the main shaft
by half a mile of winding drives and
cross-cuts, he was about to enter a small
stope when his carbide-lamp went out.
He took out a small electric-torch which
he usually carried and switched it on.
The bulb glowed faintly for a few seconds
and then faded out, hopelessly strained.
He struck a match, which ignited and
glowed, but failed to flare. A second
match flared up as usual and he was able
to light a candle and proceed, the torch
and the first match evidently having pro-
vided just sufficient light to saturate the
darkness to normal intensity.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: If, in his heart-bursting
efforts to lift the ore-truck that his “mates”
had lashed down to the rails, Luigi suf-
fered nothing more serious than tears and
faintness (B. 10/9/’52), he was much
more fortunate than an equally strong
compatriot of his that I once knew. The
big fellow, a market-gardener, was in the
habit of hitching a rope to the plough,
when the going got too tough, and giving
his mare a drag out. It was this practice
—and, no doubt, Italiano “vino” —that
led to an argument with his associates
which culminated in a bet that he could
not plough an acre of land in one day,
with himself as the horse. A £5O-wager
was big money in the early ’thirties, but
the bet was won —and paid over. Within
six months the winner was dead from an
internal complaint.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Barney was trying to
sell Mat a neddy. Mat went to its head,
it made to bite, but Mat was too quick.
“That’s just his way,” Barney said.
“Always does it. Never really grabs y’,
though.” Mat moved to the shoulder and
ppt a hand to the wither as though to
mount. The prad screwed partly aside.
“That’s nothin’,” Barney said. “He’d
never really dump y’.” Mat stood back,
eyed the prad, then moved in and put a
hand on its near-side rump. It promptly
lifted its hindquarters as though to lash
out. Mat sidestepped. The horse dropped
its hooves to the ground without letting
go. Barney chuckled. “Playful,” he said ;
“he’d never really kick y’.” Mat stood
thoughtfully. “Well,” proceeded Barney,
“how about it? Do y’ want him? Y’
don’t want t’ take any notice of his
tricks.” “It ain’t his tricks,” said Mat.
“It’s a case o’ memory—his an’ mine.”
“Memory?” “Yair, one day I might
forget t’ duck an’ he might forget t’ stop
the kick.” No sale.
* * * *
H. A. Lindsay: How did Australia get
its inland salt lakes (B. 3/9/’52)? The
story begins some
30,000 years ago
when a variation of
the earth’s orbit
around the sun
made the world be-
come very cold.
The polar ice-
sheets gradually
spread until they
reached as far
south as England
in the northern
hemisphere. Crea-
tures such as the
mammoth froze to
death; human
races were forced
to move towards
the equator. So
much water be-
came locked up in
the ice-fields that
the ocean levels
sank 230 ft. lower
than they are to-
day ; as a result
there was an
almost continuous
land- bridge be-
tween Tasmania
and Malaya, with
no sea gap any-
where wider than
fs
“And how's YOUR wind this morning, Watkins?"
30 miles, easily crossed on rafts. Down the
land-bridge to as far as Tasmania came our
first human population, the Negritos. Fol-
lowing them came our present aborigines,
who drove out or absorbed the Negritos,
except in Tasmania and one place in
North Queensland, When the earth’s
orbit swung back to normal the world
grew warm again. As the vast ice-sheets
melted, huge currents of cold water
flowed out from them, with warm cur-
rents flowing towards them. These hot
and cold currents set up an immense
turbulence in the earth’s atmosphere,
resulting in heavy rainfall in areas which
are desert today. Central Australia then
had a wet climate, with slow-flowing
rivers, swamps and lakes. There were
big forests of gum-trees, strips of jungle
and huge groves of Livistona-palms. On
the well-watered, grassy plains were herds
of diprotodons, giant kangaroos and an
emulike bird as large as the extinct moa
of New Zealand. When the ice-sheets
had melted to normal size, and the oceans
had returned to their present levels, Aus-
tralia became cut off from the rest of the
world. The heavy rains no longer fell;
the palms all died out, except at Palm
Valley, near Hermannsburg; the forest
and strips of jungle vanished. The last
of the giant animals and birds bogged
and died as they tried to reach water
in the drying swamps. All the solids
which had been dissolved in those inland
waters became concentrated in the lake
beds—and there they are today in the
form of salt and gypsum deposits. Simi-
lar climatic changes took place in North
Africa and Central Asia. If you want
to know what our inland country was
once like visit survival areas such as the
Valley of Lagoons, in N.Q., or the lakes
and swamps near Robe, S.A.
“Mingari”: Steve’s dogs working out
of sight (B. 24/9/’52) must have been
from the same litter as a couple belong-
ing to an overseer I once worked under in
the Westralian nor’-west. Those two
loved work more than all the rest of us
added up, and even when their boss
was simply jogging along a road to get
from one place to another Bluey and
Brandy would be off in the scrub gather-
ing 20 or 30 jumbucks together. They
would then proudly herd their charges out
on to the track, glowing with virtue and
the feeling of duty nobly done, only lb be
greeted with yells and curses. For
perhaps the next half-mile they’d trot
along at heel, only to vanish again and
return with another little mob they'd
picked up. More curses, the release of
the captives, and so ad infinitum. This
habit of theirs, however, greatly endeared
them to such of the lads as were
(allegedly) working in some secluded spot.
The Trump’s yells, howls and impreca-
tions, audible for at least half a mile,
always gave us plenty of time to spring
out from under the wanyu bush, seize
the shovel and the bar and turn on a very
convincing imitation of the Industrious
Station Hand. Why, on a warm day,
we’d even have a decent sort of sweat up
by the time he got close enough to see
us!
* * * *
“Bridport”: Pelicans know a , few
tricks other than their better-known ones
of aerobatics. Watch them on the mud-
flats of tidal rivers indulging in the
apparently frivolous pastime of stamping
up and down in the shallow water stirring
up the bottom. Watch a while longer
and you’ll see them make a horizontal
sweep with their capacious bills and scoop
up the young flounder and sole they have
thus flushed out. On a small island in
the Flinders group there is a large peli-
can-rookery. Recently the skipper of a
crayfish-boat went ashore there in search
of bait. The rookery was covered with
eggs, two in each of the nests, which
were about 4ft. or sft. apart. He
gathered a lot of eggs and absent-
mindedly left them in three heaps when
he returned to his boat. A fortnight
later he returned to the same island and
was surprised to find the heaps of eggs
gone. The pelicans had each taken two
eggs and returned them to their nests and
were contentedly going on with the hatch-
ing process. At a later date, while steam-
ing past the island, there was great
activity at the rookery. The pelicans
appeared to be quarrelling over the family
likenesses.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Bunt took a keen interest in
the local show, and for years had carried
off many prizes in the vegetable section.
The biggest prize was for the best collec-
tion of the things, and Bunt worked hard,
planting a patch of every seasonal sort he
could think up, and fighting pests and
bad weather. Show day. He gathered
his collection, did the 10-mile trip to the
grounds. It was the district’s big yearly
event. Fancy-riding, jumping, wood-
chops, merry-go-round, ice-cream,
women in fancy frocks. In grand array
the afternoon drifted on to sundown, the
crowd departed, the tents were pulled
down, the secretary banged the door on
an empty shed. He was leaving the
ground when a huddled figure against the
trunk of an ornamental-tree caught his
eye. He called, bent over and prodded the
figure inquiringly. Came Bunt’s voice:
“Beat, shee? Beat be a blashted
cucumber! ”
* * * *
MOONLIGHT.
What is there in the world amiss
That thought waits by a precipice
Auid all the earth seems half-awake
As if expecting day to break?
Shadows but half-shadows are
And down the paddocks reaching far
All is veiled in vague grey light
Not shadow dark and silver bright!
Faint-hearted stars, half in, half out,
Reluctant wind that winds about;
Pale moon that gleams: you weary jade
Shine bright and clear —pronounce the shade!
N.S.W.
R. J. LOUDON.
SUMMER DECIBEL.
Wait.
As I wake,
That’s no porter, drunken,
Knocking on Hell’s gate —
Knocking on the mind before the light—
But a thrush breaking snails on the walled
fragrance of morn.
For a fisherman walks the world,
Netting in the perimeter of hearing
Bird cries and falling rain,
And the smaller, patient sounds that lap
At the threshold of hearing.
What web is this that snares as one
As one
Sounding brass of cicadas,
Long drone
Of a tired sea?
In other places, and here other times,
These sounds go free,
Fly through the air unknown,
And bum
In the white sacrifice of summer,
And are ashes —memories of sound for none.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Famous For Its Finish
m
w/osd
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
sd
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
v SYDNEY
FROM AUSTRALIA
fs
mmt
Fly British by 8.0.A.C.
Enjoy all the advantages
of 8.0.A.C.’s 33 years
of International Flying
Experience.
/■/X—
a
TOP
£
Wherever you fly it costs no more for 8.0.A.C.
traditional service and experience ... for the
unrivalled skill of aircrews and ground staff . . .
friendly, courteous attention . . . smooth
efficiency. Speedbird services link with 51
countries on all 6 continents—and you can
travel on one ticket all the way.
Four-engined Speedbird airliners are fully
pressurized for smooth above-the-weather
flying. Complimentary meals and meal-time
drinks. No tips. No extras.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA
HONG KONG . JAPAN . CEYLON . INDIA
PAKISTAN • MIDDLE EAST • AFRICA
EUROPE • GREAT BRITAIN • U.S.A. • CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA . BERMUDA
Comet services now operating
Johannesburg—London,
r
(jtmdj
and Colombo—London, are forerunners
of world-wide 8.0.A.C. Jetliner services.
FI Y ■ BOH
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.,
(8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
- - A34/AU
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Newcastle Harbor
“Abdul Assiz”: The feeling of
joy experienced by the citizens
of Newcastle on the publication
of the dredging figures for June
was shortlived, and any immedi-
ate hopes of a happy future for
that port were shattered by the
N.S.W. Minister for Public
Works (Mr. Renshaw), who
stated, on July 19, that the
various activities then in opera-
tion with the object of bringing
back the harbor to the condi-
tion of being able to handle,
with some degree of efficiency,
the traffic normal to it, would
have to be halted. The reason
given for this drastic measure
was that the loan money avail-
able had been reduced from
£5,000,000 to £3,600,000.
It doesn’t require a mathe-
matician to point out that the
reduction quoted would mean a
28 per cent, cut in operations,
but not the almost total cessa-
tion of work which the Minister
insisted upon; and the only
explanation that is obvious is
that the N.S.W. “Labor” Gov-
ernment had, as usual, over-
played its hand when prosperity
was almost forced upon it by
buoyant markets, in the develop-
ment of which it had played
little part.
Further gloom descended upon
Newcastle when Premier Cahill,
this time in Sydney on Septem-
ber 8, reiterated, almost word
for word, the statement which
he, as Minister for Public
Wqrks, had made in Newcastle
on February 21.
The north and south arms of
the Hunter River were to be
deepened to depths of 20ft. and
15ft. respectively at low water.
Dredge-spoil was to be dumped
not wastefully out to sea, but
on various islands in the Lower
Hunter, thus reclaiming about
6500 acres of land, about 3500
of which were privately owned.
This land would be provided
with road-, rail- and sea-trans-
port facilities, and ,5500 acres
would be available for disposal
for about £s| million, or £1
million more than the estimated
cost of the work.
In view of this statement it
is remarkable that Admiral Mc-
Girr has not rushed immediately
to the aid of his successor and
erstwhile colleague to place all
the facilities of the Maritime
Services Board at Newcastle’s
disposal.
It is evident, however, that
nothing of the sort has hap-
pened, for Premier Cahill, who
is not prone to pessimistic state-
ments when dealing with
“Labor” policy, asserts that the
scheme will take 40 years to
complete. In seven years, how-
ever, 400 acres, with road
access, will be available (presum-
ably to be sold for £400,000 in
order to carry on the good
work). In 12 years 1200 acres,
with road and rail access,
should be on the market. What
Newcastle is to do in the mean-
time we are not told, but if
things go on as they are going
at present it is certain that there
will be little industry left that
can afford to pay £lOOO an acre
for living room on Newcastle
Harbor.
It is proposed to do this work
with “a dredge put into commis-
sion last year,” which can only
mean the Richard Vowell, and
a second “new-type dredge now
on order” presumably the
sister-ship to the Richard
Vowell, authority for the
construction of which was
rescinded last July. Apparently
no advantage is to be taken of
the improvements in design
over the Richard Vowell which
the H.A.M. 301 has so clearly
demonstrated, in spite of its age,
nor has the obvious lesson that
contract work is much cheaper
for dredging than full-time and
overtime work performed by
civil servants. It is no wonder,
therefore, that Premier Cahill
has to draw his bills at a very
long date.
The Richard Vowell has, over
the last three months, raised and
disposed of approximately
250,000 tons of silt, the corres-
ponding figure for the H.A.M.
301 being 950,000 tons, while
the remainder of the motley
craft of eight Government-
owned vessels raised and dis-
posed of 450,000 tons between
them —as nearly as can be cal-
culated from the information
available. In July the H.A.M.
301 accounted for over 54 per
cent, of the silt-tonnage and the
Richard Vowell for under 19
per cent. ; for August the
corresponding percentages were
just over 62 per cent, and 7 per
cent, respectively.
The Richard Vowell and her
projected sister-ship, on pre-
sent performance, can be ex-
pected, therefore, to raise and
dispose of around 2,000,000 tons
of silt a year, which is even less
than the modest 2\ million tons
demanded by Premier Cahill for
his 40-year plan, and allows no
margin for any further floods in
the Hunter.
To excuse the non-renewal of
the Dutch contract, as did Pub-
lic Works Minister Renshaw in
July, by saying that “any
further moneys from loan funds
should be employed to allow an
Australian dredge, employing
good Australians, to continue
work,” may be good political
claptrap, but it does not solve
the problem of keeping open the
Commonwealth’s premier coal
and steel port.
Newcastle looks anxiously to
the future, and Maitland still
faces the threat of destruction
whenever the Hunter is in spate,
while Sydney, as long as the
Hexham loading-point remains
silt-bound, will suffer periodic
shortages of gas coal.
The race between Cahill and
nuclear power is on!
The Course of Prices
The Commonwealth Bank, in
its annual report, records and
documents the fact that infla-
tion is still profoundly influenc-
ing the Australian economy:
The general level of prices and
costs in Australia is still rising. The
increase in retail prices in the first
half of 1952, as measured by the
Commonwealth Statistician’s “C”-
series retail-price index, was about
8 p.c., compared with rises of about
11 p.c. in each of the two previous
half-years. Average weekly earnings
of employees rose by 8 p.c. in the
nine months ended March, 1952, com-
pared with an increase of about 13
p.c. in the nine months ended March,
1951. The index of wholesale prices
of a wide range of basic materials,
which had been rising strongly until
November, 1951, remained fairly
steady during the next five months.
There was a particularly heavy
“ Darling, I've got ace, king, queen, jack, ten of the
same suit—is it worth betting on?"
tease food.gte
index shows a rise o( 33 p.c in retail
food prices compared with increases
of 13 p.c. in clothing, 3 p.c. in rents
?he index
b e f ore the war, however, food prices
have risen less than clothing prices.
The upward movement in import
?™ s 5 f a f m b “S I
23 c However the general level
Q f prices of imports into Australia
during the first half of 1952 has
f r prices S
With the exception of France and
Japan there does not seem to have
been a comparable price-rise to Aus-
m the first nine months o
with w hich we principally trade. A
similar result is found when the
longer period back to 1948 is con-
■ t . , f
increase of p rct J a Ji prices (and wages)
here and abroad has already con-
tributed to our balance-of-payments
Somf' of < "S
emphasised by the fact that in most
overseas countries with which we
principally trade both retail and
whoteatephees were relatively steady
Despite the fall in the price of
wool, the national income for 1951-52
was slightly higher than in 1950-51.
fog£“ B ithTiTbi^KS:
were supporting factors in the face
of a substantial fall in farm income
due to the lower prices for wool and
howevS.wSi fup'&'by
don of part of the profits accruing
to Australia from the operations of
the Joint Organisation (United King-
b
1950-51 and by the disbursement of
fu « ds Wheat Board.
.jj?® prriJS V adoubt '
? consumption expendftures and
higher live!
of taxat ‘9 n - Persona! savings for the
gjg returns to wool-produccrs fell
heavily under the combined pressure
and the continuing
' . g-
Some influences for lower
costs /re now at work, but a
considerably greater output of
essential goods in each working
week is still required.


AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Held in Sydney on Friday, September 26th, 1952
I have much pleasure in
moving the reception and adop-
tion of the Directors’ Report
and Accounts for the year
ended June 30th, 1952. Before
proceeding to certain general
comments which I would like
to make, it is appropriate that
I should explain how I come to
be acting as Chairman.
Tou will he sorry to learn
that your Chairman, Sir Nor-
man Brookes, is not well and
has been unable to travel from
Melbourne to take the Chair at
this meeting. Moreover, Sir
Norman has written to the
Board to say that it is not his
intention to offer himself for
re-election as Chairman of the
Board, as he feels that it is in
the best interests of the Com-
pany that he should make way
for a younger and more virile
Chairman.
Sir Norman will be 75 years
of age next November. He has
been associated with A.P.M. for
56 years and, in that period, has
seen it grow through various
phases to become one of the
largest companies in Australia.
He has been Chairman of the
Board for the past 12 years.
We all owe a great deal to Sir
Norman Brookes. I am sure
that you will all join with me
in wishing him a rapid restora-
tion to full health, which we
hope will be assisted by his
letting go of the onerous duties
which inevitably devolve on the
Chairman of such a company
as this.
Following this meeting your
Directors will meet to elect a
Chairman to succeed Sir Nor-
man. At that time it is their
Intention to ask Sir Norman to
accept the office of Deputy-
Chairman. We are anxious to
have the continued advantage
of his advice.
I now turn to my general
comments.
TRADING CONDITIONS — All
Shareholders will have received
the Annual Report which, this
year, has been combined with
the Directors’ Report and State-
ment of Accounts. As can be
seen, the year has been a very
successful one. Since the end
of the financial year, trading
conditions have been difficult
and the Company has not been
able to sell the whole of its
productive capacity. I am
pleased to say that there are
signs of improvement, and we
expect by the end of this year
to be back in full production
again. With our present
capacity we are at the moment
in a position to make quick
deliveries of all classes of paper
and cardboard in the packaging
Address by the Acting Chairman of Directors, Mr. Telford Simpson,
in moving the adoption of the Directors’ Report and Accounts.
field, ranging from simple wrap-
ping papers to the material for
large, solid and corrugated fibre
containers, and the very highest
grade of cardboard for fine
carton work. The opportunity
is being taken to expand and
develop end uses previously
handicapped by shortage of
supplies.
FUTURE OUTLOOK — Your
Board has confidence in Aus-
tralia and, because of its im-
portance in the Australian
economy, has complete con-
fidence in the future prospects
of A.P.M. The Board believes
that the present difficult period
will be short-lived, and to a
degree will be beneficial in that
it has made possible “stock-
taking" of our efficiency, which
was so difficult when we were
being pressed continuously for
supplies. Today’s circumstances
are giving us the opportunity to
press ahead with our campaign
for greater efficiency.
Holding these views and look-
ing to the future, your Board
feels that it is not only wise,
but necessary that it should
proceed with its expansion pro-
gramme as rapidly as Aus-
tralian circumstances permit.
To continue its programme the
Company will, in due course,
seek further capital funds. To
a large extent the ability to
raise further capital funds is
connected with national morale.
We are of opinion that the hesi-
tancy and lack of confidence in
the community over recent
months have not been war-
ranted. We are satisfied with
the outlook for the future.
PREFERENCE ISSUE—The cur-
rent Preference Share Issue of
£1,793,741 in 6% Cumulative
Preference Shares has beefn
over-subscribed and was highly
successful. Subscriptions came
in so rapidly that it was neces-
sary to close the various lists
for applications very soon after
it was possible to do so in
terms of the Prospectus. The
offer of Shares to the Pre-
ference Shareholders of A.P.M.
Ltd. remains open until Septem-
ber 29th. The Issue was popu-
lar amongst all categories of
equity holders in A.P.M. Ltd.
and The Australasian Paper and
Pulp Co. Ltd. to whom it was
offered. The Company is pro-
ceeding with allotments and
will allocate the available
Shares equitably amongst the
various applicants.
TARIFF REVIEW — The Com-
pany approached the Depart-
ment of Trade and Customs a
few Ayeeks ago seeking a re-
view of the present rates of
duty on the grades of paper
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
Mentioned by the Chairman in his address:
• Production figures for Pulp, Paper
and Cardboard all reached new re-
cords.
• The Company’s profit was £1,042,116,
representing 6.7% on the Share-
holders’ Funds at 30th June, 1952.
• At Fairfield the new No. 5 Machine
came into production. This machine
has a capacity of 15,000 to 20,000 tons
per annum of high-grade Cardboards
and cardboard with which we
are mainly concerned. The
present rates of duty on these
products were established in
1935 and 1937, and for all prac-
tical purposes were at fixed
monetary amounts per ton. At
that time the duties, together
with the primage then in force,
afforded us reasonable protec-
tion. Today the changed value
of money has resulted in these
existing rates of duty being
quite inadequate, and this, is
one of the reasons why we have
suffered from the flush of ex-
cess imports which came into
the country in the early part of
this year.
One of our contentions in
support of the duties we are
requesting is the fact that we
can only achieve most econo-
mical production if our Mills
are kept operating at full out-
put. For a developing industry
it is in the best interest of the
community that sufficient tariff
protection should be provided so
that it operates at maximum
capacity.
The Company’s principal com-
petition arises from overseas
sources. Even without effective
protection the Company was
able to compete until recently.
Overseas prices fluctuate over a
wide range according to world
demands. This means that at
times the prices are exorbitant
and far and away higher than
our prices. On other occasions
they fall to such a low level
that the exports to Australia
must be made almost on a
dumping basis.
Mr. C. S. Booth, Managing
Director, seconding the motion,
said:—
I am pleased to second the
adoption of the Directors’ Re-
port and Accounts for the year
ended June 30th, 1952. In doing
so may I be permitted to make
reference to the fact that Sir
Norman Brookes will not be
continuing as our Chairman.
It has been my privilege to
be Managing Director of A.P.M.
for some years now under Sir
Norman’s Chairmanship. The
new Chairman of the Board will
not only have a great honour
and a great responsibility in
the office but will also have the
example of the wise and con-
siderate leadership that he has
given.
I should inform you that the
Board intends to appoint Mr.
Telford Simpson as its Chair-
man. Mr. Simpson brings to
his task a wealth of knowledge
not only gained in his service
for 12 years as a Director of
the Company, but also from his
very wide general experience.
with a glazed surface suitable for first
quality packaging and printing.
• Last winter our Forest Subsidiary
planted 3,800 acres of pine trees in
Gippsland, and this is in addition to
the work done to promote the natural
regeneration of eucalyptus.
• House construction was easily a
record, and during the year 330 houses
were built, as compared with 150 in
the previous year.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Import Problem
It’s a toss-up whether manu-
facturers and traders in New
Zealand will be able to get
through the next 12 months with-
out large-scale cancelling of
overseas orders and loss of a lot
of the goodwill they’ve been try-
ing to keep bright in the difficult
post-war years.
When the Reserve Bank
stepped in and called a
halt to the record spend-
ing spree, Maoriland was head-
ing straight for default, and the
R.B. calmed a lot of fears by
telling the world that the aim
was to honor all firm contracts.
It made April 1 the limiting-date
for this guarantee, with a reser-
vation that there might have to
be some delay here and there in
meeting the bills as they came in.
For several months after that
the supply pipeline was still de-
livering goods at a greater rate
than N.Z. could hope to con-
sume or pay for them, but slowly
the pressure eased off from mid-
year onwards. As there were
still some months to go be-
fore N.Z. could expect much sea-
sonal pick-up in funds from new
season’s exports, it was clear
there would be a lean half-year,
during which it would have to
take good care of its low
reserves.
This time of suspense may not
be nearly as hard on Maoriland’s
nerves as the exchange drought
on Australia’s, but it’s bad
enough. The R. 8., under orders
to get M.L. out of its tight spot,
is working on a shoestring,
and has been turning away
clamorous applicants for funds
on all sides. Maorilanders who
either wouldn’t believe earlier
that the emergency was real, or
thought it wouldn’t come their
way, have begun to see, rather
late in the day, that all are in
much the same box.
Belated efforts to delay ship-
ments or payments, or moves to
“raise the wind” in any quarter
where that was still possible,
have stalled off cancellations so
far, and many will be living on
their wits over the next few
months. At this stage N.Z. is
pinning its hopes mainly on a
good export season for butter,
cheese and meat, and at least
payable prices for wool.
The Tourist Trade
What with tourist business
going by, dazzling dollar pros-
pects unexploited and hotels
under a non-stop barrage of
criticism, it’s high time New
Zealand decided to do something
about its Cinderella tourist
industry.
Everyone, from Cabinet rank
downwards, knows Maoriland
could earn a fortune from
tourists, and there’s not a
Maorilander who wouldn’t wel-
come the exchange relief these
funds would bring; but no one
seems able to make any head-
way against paralysing controls,
which are still as tight as ever,
nearly three years after kicking-
out the Socialists.
When the Minister in charge
of Tourist and Health Resorts
(Mr. Bodkin) said lately he
would like to see a chain of first-
class tourist hotels, with Auck-
land, “Pacific gateway into
N.Z.,” as the starting-point, all
Maorilanders were ready to say
“Hear, hear”; they couldn’t
agree more. They were ready to
admit, too, that private enter-
prise couldn’t tackle the job
lone-handed, but would have to
be backed up by local governing
authorities, the State or outside
capitalists. The State’s handicap
is that it hasn’t done much good
for itself in business.
Not long ago the Tourist
Department tried to stir up
public interest by saying that
low tourist rates for air-travel
would in time open up a vast
field for M.L.’s tourist industry,
and the time might not be far
off. Another enthusiast, a
visiting ski expert, told Maori-
landers they could earn un-
limited dollars through alpine
sports, and world airline offi-
cials asked them what they were
waiting for.
One of the Dominion’s lead-
ing breweries recently induced
American interests to offer up
to 15 million dollars to help
build tourist hotels in N.Z., if
restrictions on building, charges,
meal-hours and services generally
are swept away, but they’re
shrewd enough not to put up
capital if enterprise is to be
obstructed at every turn.
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
Just when new mills were be-
ginning to make their weight
felt and Maoriland’s timber
industry was ready to show its
real mettle, largely through the
efforts of New Zealand Forest
Products, Ltd., the sudden
swing from a seller’s to a
buyer’s market took th« wind
out of the sails, and no one in
the timber trade can guess how
long it will be before the breeze
is favorable again.
The biggest blow was loss
of Australian orders when
shipments of Baltic timber
began to oust M.L, pine
from the Commonwealth mar-
ket. On top of this, demand fell
off inside Maoriland through
State-sponsored purchases of
imported prefabricated houses
at the very moment when the
industry was most in need of
local support. Although M.L.
cos. tried not to take too
gloomy a view of things and
hoped this would be nothing
worse than a brief setback, it
came at a most awkward time
for Forest Products, with costly
projects in hand.
Year by year this co. has
been steadily forging ahead
with its development pro-
gramme, and it still has six
months to go before it is ready
to turn out pulp from its big
Kinleith mill, which will bring
it close to the stage of full opera-
tion in timber and pulp. Month
by month it has been hewing
its way into its great pine
forests. Week by week it has
been turning out a million to a
million and a half feet of tim-
ber. All the while its army of
55,000 shareholders, most of
them in Australia, have waited
for the day when divs. will come
their way. The first plum, a
modest 3j p.c. on prefs., is a
noncommittal hint of favors to
come.
Wright, Stephenson
Wealth from both sides of the
Tasman has gone to fill the
coffers of one of Maoriland’s
most progressive middle-aged
enterprises, run by Wright,
Stephenson and Co., Ltd., with
a flourishing woolbroking, pas-
toral finance, merchandising
and agency business. In the
post-war years this co, has
romped ahead, and, as if to
show its contempt for changes
in wool prices, profit in the
latest term (to June 30) went up
and up to £219,299, while wool
went down and down. With
four years still to go before it
celebrates its golden jubilee, it
has amassed £1,105,000 in re-
serves (up £160,000 in the last
twelvemonth), and today ranks
as one of M.L.’s most go-ahead
concerns.
One of the co.’s strong
points is its substantial hold-
ing of cheap capital in 3 p.c. to
4j p.c. terminable debentures, to
a total of £878,849, which nearly
equals share capital of £913,054
and has no small influence in
lifting the div. on half a million
ords. to 15 p.c., paid in the last
two years. In the background
the co. has ample reserve
strength in fixed assets written
down to well under half a mil-
lion. There can’t be much
wrong with its general set-up
when it has been able to
finance a rise of half a million
to a million and a half in stocks
without a penny of overdraft,
which makes it the envy of
many now head-over-heels in
debt to the banks. All told, its
assets, current and fixed, run
into more than six million.
When most cos. have had to
wrestle with falling profit per-
centages, under inflation, it
seems to have found the key to
keeping profits and turnover
nicely in step, as its roots strike
deeper each year into the rich
soil of Maoriland rural pros-
perity, from which it derives
most of its strength.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Waies
and Queensland.
Before you go abroad
take
TONSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
_ worry by placing the control of your affairs
in the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent. The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
and attention to all kinds of business and personal
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton U.T.6
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.)
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1948. .534,745 10 8 394,252 140,493 771,043
Surplus sale assets, £198,422 .. .. 969,465
Less premium shares bought, £62,364.. 907,101
Unexplained reduction contingency re-
serve, £45,645 .. .. .. 861,456
Add sundry adjustments, £6898 . . 868,354
1949. .454,117 10 8 394,252 59,865 928,219
Less premium shares subsid., etc., £16,710 911,609
Added intangibles, £1324 .. .. 910,185
1950. .757,118 10 8 394,252 862,860 1,273,051
To special stock reserve, £175,000 .. 1,098,051
Share premiums, £679,002 .. 1,777,053
Net reduction reserves, £4123 ~ .. 1,772,930
1951. .900,162 10 8 452,117 448,045 2,220,975
To special stock reserve, £125,000 .. 2,095,975
Share premiums, £475,312 .. .. 2,571,287
Reduction reserves, £164,912 net .. 2,406,375
1952. .888,389 10 8 527,119 361,270 2,767,645
* After deducting outside interests,
t After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £731,129).
Biggest thing of its kind in the Southern
Hemisphere, the Dunlop group—parent
and eight subsidiaries with factories
scattered all over the Commonwealth—
turns out car, heavy-truck and tractor
tyres, rubber footwear, flooring and belt-
ing, and latex upholstery and mattresses,
as well as wet-cell batteries, tennis-
racquets and gut, tennis- and golf-balls
and a variety of other lines.
Rapid post-war growth of the Aus-
tralian economy sent demand for the
co.’s expanding range and growing
volume of output up with a rush. To
hold the market the board embarked upon
a big and costly programme of develop-
ment, which is now moving toward com-
pletion. Over the last seven years total
assets of the group increased by
£12,282,220 net, reaching £18,919,250 at
June 30 last. During the same period
shareholders put up £3,644,159 (£2,571,845
capital and £1,072,314 share-premiums),
£1,856,000 was raised on 4£ p.c. deben-
tures (which are earning more than their
keep), £2,173,686 on overdraft and an
extra £1,924,778 on open trade account
from sundry creditors. The balance came
from the co.’s large holding of cash, etc.
(£1,444,656 in 1945), and from surplus
earnings and provisions. The policy has
been to keep the div. steady at 8 p.c. and
plough the balance of net earnings back
into the business—£l,62o,ll3 over the
last seven years.
As new plant was brought into produc-
tion and new subsidiary undertakings
established, turnover and earnings
responded. More important, the ratio
of net earnings to average ord, capital
(after deducting the pref. div.) rose from
an average of 8.5 p.c. for the five years to
1947 to an average of 14.2 p.c. for the
quinquennium to the close of last
accounts. Since large amounts of capital
were necessarily unproductive for varying
times during the latter period, the figures
are a testimony to the quality of the
control, and efficiency of the organisation
and plant—inflation notwithstanding.
In April last 1,267,500 new £1 ords.
were put out, one for four, and brought
with them £475,312 of share-premiums,
which were added to reserves. Although
net earnings for the year to June 30 got
little benefit from this new money, and
trading eased toward the close of
accounts, output and sales for the full
period increased substantially. The
parent’s turnover alone was over
£7,000,000 (38.8 p.c.) better at a record
£25,000,000. After allowing a generous
£520,716 (up £104,514) for depreciation
and unspecified amounts for taxation and
other contingencies, the cautious board
wrote net earnings of the group at
£888,389 (down £11,773), of which the
subsidiaries contributed about 53 p.c.
The £888,389 covered the pref. div. and
14.6 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
18, 17.6, 9.6 and 11.6 p.c. back to 1948.
A creditable performance considering the
rise in operating costs, sharp fall in price
of raw rubber and other difficulties.
The next table shows how the under-
taking is financed:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— i 960. 1951. 1952
Dunlop interest £4,695,655 £6,000,000 £7,267,500
Outside interest* 153,972 159,757 42,182
Mortgage debenture 1,250,000 1,587,500 1,856 000
Overdraft . . 944,390 2,600,267 2.173,686
Sundry creditors .. 1,132,807 1.811,858 2,236,588
Tax reserve . . 747,847 1,317,587 1,519,121
Final divs. . . 233,015 290.510 325,449
Freeholds, etc., .. 1,438,760 1,802,840 2,136 670
Plant, etc. . . 1,704,210 2.055,080 2,582,295
Stocks t • • . . 5,052,530 8,526,901 10,018,495
Debtors . . . . 1,994,326 2,894,769 3,246.245
Investments, etc... 53,742 484,470 67 269
Cash, etc 12,161 99.397 137,’ 147
Goodwill 732,158 731,811 731,129
* Includes share undistributed profits. f After de-
ducting special reserve. £175,000. 1950: £3OO 000
1951 and 1952.
During the year an extra £3,436,042 was
got in £1,742,812 from shareholders,
£268,500 from debenture-holders and
£424,730 from sundry creditors. It went
mainly into stocks (up £1,491,594), fixed
assets (up £861,045) and book-debts (up
£351,476), and to reduce both the over-
draft (down £426,581) and interest of out-
side shareholders in the business (down
£117,625). The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£5,358,312), or working capital, increased
by £960,497.
The sluggishness of turnover toward
and since the close of accounts is due
mainly to changes in the economic
climate, which brought a reduced
demand for tyres and other automotive
accessories, and partly to the overstocked
position of retailers. Among other things,
this helps to explain part of the big
increase in the co.’s own stocks, which
appear at the lower of cost or replacement
value, less a special price-fluctuation
reserve of £300,000. The period of re-
adjustment, or working-down of stocks, is
not expected to be unduly protracted,
and it is hoped that turnover will finally
settle at a satisfactory level. The ugly
features are rising costs, restrictive legis-
lation on long-distance road transport,
especially in N. S. Wales, and still-high
levels of sales- and income-taxes and duty
and primage on raw rubber.
There is nothing at the moment to
suggest that the 8 p.c. div. is likely to be
interfered with, and the long-term outlook
for the business is encouraging. At 295.
(30s. ex rights in March last) the ords.
return 5.5 p.c. on the basis of last term’s
distribution. The 10 p.c. prefs. at
345. 6d. yield 5.8 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £lO 15s. lOd. prefs. and 28s, 9d. ords.
Adelaide Steamship Co.
. . To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 191,103 151,134 39,969 728,582
1945.. 191,287 6£ „ „ 151,134 40,153 768,685
1946.. 169,499 6 „ „ 139,508 29,991 798,676
1947.. 169,456 6 „ „ 139,507 29,949 828,625
1948.. 154,451 6 „ „ 139,507 14,944 843,569
1949.. 218,331 5 „ „ 116,257 102,074 945,643
1950.. 156,276 5 „ „ 116,257 40,019 985,662
1951.. 156,268 5 „ „ 116,257 40,011 1.025,673
1952.. 241,273 5 ~ „ 116,257 125,016 1.150,689
* Includes additions to reserves.
The co.’s figures are well compounded,
and it is difficult to say just what profit
has been earned, except that it appears
to be in excess of the figure claimed by
the board. The fleet —five passenger- and
19 cargo-vessels aggregating 69,129 tons
gross—is the largest on the coast. To-
gether with tugs, lighters, wharves, etc.,
it figures in the books at £1,700,568, or
37.2 p.c. of total assets. Investments, sub-
sidiary and ancillary interests, which total
£2,048,269 or 44.8 p.c. of assets, contri-
bute “valuably” to earnings. They consist
of Government securities and cash
£907,864, shares in other cos. and sundry
debtors £1,003,905, and shares in sub-
sidiaries £136,500.
Last term two of the older units of the
fleet, each of 3000-odd tons, were sold,
another was stranded and abandoned to
the underwriters, and a new 6000-ton
unit, built at Whyalla, came into commis-
sion in Feb. last. Also, freight-rates were
brought more into line with advancing
costs, more cargo was available, and the
net return from shipping improved.
Still “the excessive cost of new ship
construction and the burden of taxation
on amounts set aside for replacements
necessitate a conservative financial
policy,” the chairman says. So, after
making the “necessary” provision for de-
preciation of fleet and plant, sending
£12,000 to the staff fund, and increasing
the insurance and replacement reserves,
there was no change worth mentioning in
last term’s declared profit, which was only
£l6 more than the 5 p.c. div. called for:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Profit claimed .. .. £116,276 £116,268 £116,273
Added reserves—
Insurance .. .. • 20,000 20,000 50,000
Replacements, etc. . . 20,000 20,000 75,000
Profit per table .. £156,276 £156,268 £241.273
Including additions to the insurance and
replacement reserves, the net result was
£85,005 better at £241,273, equal to
10.3 p.c. on capital as against 6.7 p.c. and
6.7 p.c. for the two preceding years.
Since the £241,273 includes an unspecified
capital profit on sales of the two steamers
already referred to, the actual trading
result was less than the profit shown in
the table.
All that can be said definitely is that the
5 p.c. div. became a more comfortable
matter. Apart from the co.’s Spencer’s
Gulf service, which has been unremunera-
tive for some years, the outlook for
coastal shipping has brightened a little.
Changing conditions, and with them the
threat of the economic whip, has made
more labor available on the waterfront
and given a little relief from the excessively
slow turn-round of ships in the main
ports. Hopes are that this will lead to
resumption of timetable cargo services,
and to diversion of goods from road- to
sea-carriage. Prospects of a small lift in
the div. depend largely upon what happens
in connection with wage, coal and other
costs and freight-rates.
The next table shows how well-ribbed
the co. is financially: —•
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,185
Sundry creditors* 543,566 480,716 816,222
Provident fund . . 168,602 188.910 205,754
Final div 58,128 69,754 69,754
Freeholds, etc. .. 207,842 221,482 234,631
Steamers, etc. .. 834,940 1,216,204 1,700,568
Shares subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 174,454 216,488 281,131
Book debts and in-
vestments . . 900,922 1,109,033 1,306,861
Consols, cash, etc. 1,826,436 1,190,482 907,864
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s additions to and deletions from
the fleet show up in a net growth of
£484,364 in steamers, etc. The growths in
stocks and stores (up £64,643) and book-
debts, etc. (up £197,828) reflect bigger
trading and rising prices. The big wad of
consols, cash, etc., was reduced by
£282,618 and £335,506 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, which
includes an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion. Two more of the older units of the
fleet are to be sold, and a new 1400-ton
cargo-vessel is on order from the U.K.
At 235. (275. 3d. a year ago) the pound
shares return 4.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis,
or 5.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 30s,
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1947.. 114,902 12,000 28,000 40,000 )
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . j
510,683
From inner reserves, £272,640 .. 783,323
From tax provision, £37,100 ..’
War damage receipts, £3316
1948.. 210,844 f 12,000 28,000 40,000 ■
To staff fund, £lO,OOO
To stock reserve, £75,000
869.583
1949.. 189,790 12,000 28,000 40,000'
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. •
To staff fund, £lO,OOO ..
919,373
1950.. 217,928 12,000 28,000 40,000'
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. j
1,047,301
From tax reserve, £4458 . . 1,051,759
1951.. 244,887 12,000 28,000 40,0001
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. •• r
To stock reserve, £50,000 ..J
1,156,646
From tax reserve, £20,330 . . 1,176,976
1952.. 100,728 12,000 28,000 40.000
To staff fund, £lO,OOO
1,187,704
f Leap in net earnings due largely to change in
method of presenting the accounts.
The abrupt contraction of £144,159
(58.8 p.c.) in last term’s declared net
earnings was due not to managerial but
to outside influences. Well-handled and
soundly-shod financially, the co. is one
of Sydney’s biggest and most fashionable
department stores, the shop occupying the
entire end of one of the busiest blocks in
the city. Comparing profits for the last
two years, it needs to be remembered
that the 1951 figure was abnormal, due to
inflationary factors, that last term the war
and post-war era of shortages virtually
came to an end, and, for the first time in
over a decade, there was a pronounced
swing from a sellers’ to a buyers’ market,
there was further slimming of gross
margins, and operating costs increased at
a proportionately greater rate than
turnover.
So, although the money-value of turn-
over increased, there was a slip of
£353,392 (61.9 p.e.) in the co.’s trading
profit, etc.:
1951. 1952.
Trading profit, etc £579,894 £217,502
Less —-
Interest on mortgage .. 10,027 13,052
Depreciation . . .. 75,980 24,722
Tax provision . . .. 240,000 79,000
Net profit 244,887 100,728
Thus the slip in trading profit was partly
offset by reduced allowances for deprecia-
tion (down £51,258) and taxation (down
£161,000). Stocks appear to have been
taken into account on a conservative
basis, too, so the board might have
been able to show a bit more net profit
if it had wanted to. The £100,728 of net
profit claimed covered the pref. divs.
(£40,000) and 19.1 p.c. on the £400,000 of
ord. capital as against 51.2, 44.4, 37.4 and
50.2 p.c. back to 1948. Hence nothing had
to be strained to maintain the 10 p.c. div.
—an annual event for the last eight years
—and the usual £lO,OOO was sent to the
staff fund, leaving £10,728 to toss into
free reserves, which also benefited by
£20,330 overprovided for taxation in the
previous year, lifting them to £1,187,704,
or £187,704 higher than paid capital. On
the two combined the year’s profit was a
moderate 4.6 p.c.
Besides the troubles already mentioned,
a combination of increased supplies and
tightening credit, which resulted from a
flood of imports, brought trouble in the
textile and wholesale trades, and there
was some unloading of goods at cut prices
to meet current trade commitments. At
the same time the rising cost of food,
transport and other essentials reduced the
surplus spending-power of shoppers, who
also held off in anticipation of further
price-falls. Hence the tapering of
turnover toward the close of accounts.
Among other things it all means a shift
in emphasis in the buying policy of
retailers from volume to quality and
price. Quality at top and cheap prices in
medium- and low-grade goods look like
the weapons that will be used to hold
trade.
To meet the changing situation the co.
shortened sail; but the financial position
improved;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £ £/
Capital . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgages.. 350,000 250,000 300,000 800,000
Creditors,
etc.* . . 389,994 238,538 578,680 510,588
Tax prov’n 128,500 147,000 240,000 79,000
Staff fund.. 77,574 76,413 73,721 69,765
Final div... 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Freehold and
plant .. 1,304,864 1,320,461 1,368,213 1,374,935
Stockf . . 1,110,095 864,910 1,276,220 1,184,406
Book debts 324,773 376,948 576,459 456,435
Cash and in-
vestments 145,702 216,933 148,155 151,281
* Includes provision for contingencies,
t After deducting special reserve £300,000 1949 and
1950, £350,000 1951 and 1952.
To clip £68,092 off the amount coming
to creditors, etc., and pay the previous
year’s tax bill, book-debts (down
£120,024) and stocks (down £91,814) were
reduced. The improvement’ in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£812,789), or
working capital, was £24,356. Stocks, the
most vulnerable point in the co.’s armor,
are valued at “costs or under, or selling-
prices less provision to reduce to cost or
under,” and appear in the sheet less a
reserve of £350,000, which is enough to
cushion a 22.8 p.c. drop in prices below


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0-1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
established 186$
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
OSUUJVAX
-v PIX UU
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
,AN» AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
sd
fsd
Simple
and
1'
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ere
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and -
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MA RINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878,
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS i
ALLEN O. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
C. C GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRA/ER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
RYE PARK SCHEELITE NO LIABILITY
(To be Incorporated Under the Companies Act, 1936, of the State of New South Wales)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £500,000
Divided into 5,000,000 shares of 2/- each
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
5,000,000 SHARES OF 2/- EACH AS FOLLOWS:
1.900.000
3.100.000
Contributing shares are to be offered upon the same
terms as the public issue below mentioned for appli-
cation by the vendors . .
Contributing shares are now offered for public sub-
scription, payable 1/- per share, being 3d. per share
application and allotment moneys together with a pre-
payment of a call of 9d. per share to be made immedi-
ately following allottnent and the balance by further
calls as and when required
£190,000
310,000
5,000,000
£500,000
Tungsten Consolidated Limited shareholders as registered at 5 p.m.
on the 22nd September, 1952, are offered one share in Rye Park Scheelite No
Liability for each share held in Tungsten Consolidated Limited.
The Company is being formed to exercise an option from Tungsten
Consolidated Limited to acquire and mine already proven and blocked-out
tungsten, molybdenum, magnetite and fluorite deposits known as the White
Rock Tungsten Mine at Rye Park, New South Wales, including so far proven
ore reserves of 82,500 long tons of Tungsten ore assaying 1.52% WO, of a
gross value in situ of approximately £3,300,000.
UNDERWRITING BROKER.
The whole of the issue has been underwritten by GORDON DOUGLAS WHARTON,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney (Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
This is an abridgement of the full prospectus dated 30th September, 1952, a copy
of which has been filed with the Registrar-General in New South Wales, and
applications will be received only on the forms of application included with the full
prospectus, which is available from the Underwriter and Members of recognised Stock
Exchanges.
In this advertisement the requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936,
of the State of New South Wales, have not been fully complied with.
DIRECTORS.
HARRY CUTHBERTSON MOXHAM, 175 Macquarie Street, Sydney (Company Director).
CLARENCE HENRY DONALDSON, 2 Condamine Street, Balgowlah (Mining Engineer).
GORDON DOUGLAS WHARTON, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney (Sharebroker).
HAROLD RUSSELL KEED, 9 Curraghbeena Road, Mosman (Company Director).
CONSULTING ENGINEER.
GUTTERIDGE, HASKINS & DAVEY, 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING.
Applications will be made for listing on the Stock Exchanges of Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Hobart and Perth as soon as practicable after allotment.
The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised by this
issue of shares is £500,000.
valuation figures without visible
effect upon net earnings.
A period of overbuying is
usually followed by one ot
saturation and underbuying
until demand builds up again.
Steps taken by the Government
and the banks, together with the
seasonal outlook and satisfac-
tory level of export prices,
should do much to steady the
position in the retail trade
there are already indications
that the worst of the drift has
passed, though competition is
likely to remain keen and profit-
margins narrow. Ugliest feature
is the still-rising wage-cost struc-
ture, which threatens to price
some locally-made goods out of
the market.
At 425. (455. 6d. early in
1952) the ords. return 4.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div., which does not
appear to be in any danger at
the moment. The 6 p.c. first
prefs. at 255. 6d. and the 7 p.c.
seconds at 235. 6d. yield 4.7 p.c.
and 5.9 p.c. respectively. Net
tangible cover is £lO 18s. 9d.
firsts, £4 19s. 4d. seconds and
795. 4d. ords.
Castlemaine, Perkins (Bris.)
July, Profit. , —Dividends — s Reserves.
£ £ . , £
1944. .142,653 8 p.c. = 120,000 1
Provident fund, £2500 .. J
321.V15
1945. .141,621 8 p.c. = 120,000 1
Provident fund, £2500 •• }
340,836
1946. . 140,928 8 p.c. = 120,000 )
Provident fund, £2500 .. )
359,264
From contingencies pro-
vision, £lOO,OOO , 459,264
1947 . . 151,620 8 p.c. = 120.000 1
Provident fund, £2500 .. )
488,384
1948. .149,431 8 p.c. = 120,000 )
Prpvident fund, £2500 .. j
515,315
1949'. . 143,264 8 p.c. =120,000 1
Provident fund, £2500 .. )
536,079
From inner res., £lOO,OOO. . 636,079
1950. . 151,609 8 p.c. = 120,000 \
Provident fund, £2500 .. i
665,188
From inner res., £200,000. . __ 865.188
1951. .192.141 8 p.c. = 120,000 \
Provident fund, £2500 .. )
934,829
From inner res.. £lOO,OOO. . 1,034,829
1952. .206,669 8 p.c. = 120,000 7
Provident fund, £2500 .. S
1,118,998
While others in the trade have
found it difficult to hold net
earnings at the 1951 level, this
well-entrenched Brisbane brewer,
which has strong and growing
connections throughout the
south and south-west of the
State, (1) wrote net earnings
£14,528 stronger at a record
£206,669 last term, (2) took a
further £lOO,OOO from the inner
reserve for contingencies,
lumped with creditors, etc., in
the published accounts, and put
it in the window, making the
total so disclosed over the
last three years £400,000, and
(3) further widened and
strengthened its trading connec-
tions.
The Australian output of beer
for the 12 months to June 30
last increased by only 6.9 p.c.
compared with an increase of
10.9 p.c. for the previous year.
Over the same periods the basic
wage in Brisbane rose by 24.1
p.c. and 28.6 p.c. respectively,
and was pushed up a further 6s.
to £lO 13s. a week for the Sep-
tember quarter of 1952. At the
same time prices for sugar, bar-
ley, hops, malt and other brew-
ing ingredients strengthened, and
so did the cost of bottles, trans-
port and other overhead. To
help soften the squeeze Queens-
land brewers were granted a
small lift in their propor-
tion of the officially-controlled
selling-price of beer a year or
so ago ; but it was not enough,
so a further small increase was
granted as from August 4 last.
The co.’s turnover, gross earn-
ings and exes, are not broadcast.
The £206,669 of profit was writ-
ten after allowing £17,326
(down £3277) for depreciation
and whatever was considered
necessary for taxation and other
contingencies'. It was equal to
13.7 p.c. on capital as against
12.8, 10.1, 9.5, 9.9 and 10.1 p.c.
back to 1947. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c., the usual £2500 was
sent to the staff fund and the
£84,169 that remained lifted
visible reserves to £1,118,998. So
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) need turn in
only 4.5 p.q. to cover 8 p.c. on
capital alone, whereas the year’s
profit was 7.9 p.c. on these
funds.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a
strong financial position and all-
round expansion of the business,
which helped to put the spring
into net earnings:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Creditors*.. 478,482 \ M Kal , q-c
Tax reserve 160,000 f 597 ' 142 585 ’ 855
Final div. .. 60,000 60,000 60,000
Brewery, hotels,
etc. . . 2,086,990 2,116,436 2,199,028
Stocks . . 192,003 201,629 300,357
Debtors . . 140,984 162,396 244,805
Cash, etc... 446,205 614,009 523,163
* Includes unstated provision for
contingencies.
The year’s net addition to
breweries, hotels, etc., was
£82,592, to stocks £98,728 and
to book-debts £82,409. The
large holding of cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £90,846, and,
allowing for the disclosure of
inner reserves, £88,716 was added
to the outside debt.
It is clear from the large
amount of inner reserves dis-
closed over the last three years
that profits have not been over-
stated in the past, nor are they
likely to be now. Still, the
cautious board might prefer to
wait until the outlook generally
becomes more settled before de-
ciding to lift the div.
Following the trend of the
market, the price of the f.-p.
12s. 6d. shares eased from 28s.
early in 1952 to 225. 3d. in May
and then strengthened, reaching
235. 9d. last week. The return
at 235. 9d. is 4.2 p.c. on a 8 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 21s. lOd.
North Broken Hill
The co., one of the big lead-
zinc producers at the Barrier
(N.S.W.), has declared a final
div. of ss. per ss. share, payable
December 4 next, making total
distribution for the year to June
30 last Bs. 6d. per share, or 170
p.c., same as for the previous
term.
Declared profit for the year
was £2,566,170 (up £115,418), or
366 p.c. on the £700,000 of paid
capital. It was won from a
lower output of metals;
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1951 .. 45,912 2,304,391 33,164
1952 . . 42,419 2,049,357 30,269
The improvement in earnings
was due entirely to higher aver-
age metal prices, London figures
for which compare as follows:
June 30, Lead. Zinc.
1950 .. £S9S 16 4 £SB6 12 4
1951 .. 135 18 0 148 13 11
1952 .. 167 10 11 183 14 11
After 13 years of Government
control, which took the form of
bulk buying, the London Metal
Exchange resumed free trading
in lead on August 1, and the
price of the metal fell sharply by
£S24 to £SIO7 per ton. It had
long been selling in open mar-
kets on the Continent below the
U.K. controlled figure.
The present Tendon price of
zinc, the Australian export quota
of which is still sold under con-
tract to the U.K. Government, is
around £SI3O per ton.
Lead concentrates from the
Barrier are smelted at Port
Pirie, and about one-quarter of
the metal is sold locally and the
balance exported. The zinc con-
centrates are taken mainly by
Electrolytic Zinc on a sliding-
price-scale, based on local and
overseas prices and the propor-
tion of metal taken by the home
market, which is over half
E.Z.’s total output. The local
price of both lead and zinc was
lifted from £A6S to £A9S per
ton from September 5.
The market for North’s scrip,
which mainly follows the mar-
ket for the metals, fell from
78s. on September 30 to 745. on
October 3.
The reference to Kampong
Kamunting Tin Dredging (B.
1/10/’52) should read Kampong
Lanjut Tin Dredging.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The main social news of the week is,
of course, the engagement of Elizabeth
Northcott, daughter of the Governor, Sir
John Northcott, and Lady Northcott, to
Squadron-leader R. B. Nash, who is
aide-de-camp to the Governor. Since the
marriage of her elder sister, Mrs, Donald
Coburn, Miss Northcott has acted as her
mother’s representative on all official occa-
sions, as Lady Northcott has been an
invalid for some years. Everyone knows
how charmingly the Governor’s daughter
has fulfilled this work, how readily she
smiles, how often she laughs and, above
all, how she always seems to be enjoying
the functions she attends. Squadron-
leader Nash (who is studying law and
hopes to be a legal eagle by the end of
the year) will be deluged with congratu-
lations, and all who have come in contact
with Miss Northcott will wish her happi-
ness with great sincerity.
☆ ☆ ☆
Liveliness double-plus was the keynote
of the Naughty Nineties “Night in Mont-
martre” ball which is held in aid of the
Smith Family. The ballroom and
mezzanine of the A.C.I. building were
decorated with huge drawings “after”
Toulouse-Lautrec, white, black and orange
streamers, and booths to -represent a
street in Montmartre. Tablecloths were
tartan, lighting by shielded candles.
President of the committee, Mrs. W. J.
Smith, wore an elaborate costume as
Marcelle Lennder, a well-known dancer of
the period. Mr. W. J. Smith was most
dapper as the mayor of Montmartre—-a
magnificent moustache certainly becomes
him. Chief of the can-can dancers was
Mrs. Sidney Albright, with such curly
eyelashes and a lovely “saucy” costume.
The famous La Goulue, first leader of
the can-can dancers at the original Moulin
Rouge, was a more robust and less
glamorous figure, but she won first prize.
Apaches were Mr. and Mrs. Peter Glan-
ville and the Ralph Doyles. French
sailors abounded. “Regulars” at this ball
were the Mel Lawtons (it was his birth-
day, too), the lan Jacobys and the Peter
Campbells. Belle of the ball was Mrs.
Roy McKerihan, the essence of grace in
a genuine Edwardian white lawn dress,
hand-tucked and lace«embroidered, a
plumed hat and long-handled umbrella
with a blue taffeta bow.
There were two orchestras and a floor
show (as well as many unrehearsed acts).
The party went on merrily till all hours
of the morning, the necessary contrasting
touch of sadness being supplied by Mr.
Harold Newstead’s perfect representa-
tion of Toulouse-Lautrec, the deformed
and unhappy genius who immortalised in
his paintings the life of Montmartre in
the ’nineties.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Spring meeting at Randwick
opened in typical Sydney spring weather
—that is to say, in mists of rain, so all
the beautiful new outfits were left at
home. Ninety per cent, of the women
present wore suits, some bravely striving
to lighten them up with small summed
hats. Brightest notes struck were the
white hats which bobbed up on every
side. Mrs. Rex Money wore one with a
cute plaited effect at the back. Adherents
of this fashion also were Mrs. F. H.
Berryman, Mrs. Ronald Noss, Robin
MpFadyen, Mrs. Tom Bateman (one
of the few in a spring outfit) and Mrs.
R. Lay. The gardens at Randwick looked
perfect and the lawns emerald-green, but
the gay picture of a sunlit meeting was
sadly missed.
☆ ☆ ☆
Flanders camellias, old-world posies
and bunches of lavender were sold by
committee members at the musicale
arranged by the Queen Victoria Club in
aid of Christmas gifts for the boys in
Korea. After a particularly enjoyable
concert, where the artists were top-liners,
Gladys Moncrieff, Beatrice Tange and
Frank Lyle, the chairman of the musicale
committee, Lady, Anderson, announced
that enough money had been raised to
send 5001 b. of rich pound-cake to the
soldiers. Miss Northcott, accompanied
by Miss Collett, and the Lady Mayoress,
who were guests-of-honor, were welcomed
by the president of the club, Mrs. George
Bardsley,
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Edmund Collingridge, of Hunters
Hill, entertained a small group of friends
at luncheon at the Royal Sydney Yacht
Club last Thursday. Among the guests
were Mrs. J. Spora, Mrs. Pat Martin,
Mrs. Dick Perkins and Mrs. Eric Miller.
,☆ ☆ ☆
The flower arrangements by Mrs. E. G.
Waterhouse at the exhibition of Chelsea
porcelain in the Lipscombe antique shop
are attracting almost as much attention
as the exhibits. At the opening, which
was performed by Miss Northcott,
the flowers chosen were white cherry-
blossom and white wistaria, and, although
the arrangements were in the Japanese
manner, they seemed quite harmonious
with the old English china. Seen at the
opening were Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Hull,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Salisbury, Mrs. S.’
Barker, Mrs. Arthur Davis, Mrs. Penfold
Hyland and Mr. John Burden. The exhi-
bition will be open for another week,
daily from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m., and on
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
☆ ☆ ☆
This is Miss Catherine Denman, of
Cumberland, England, who has been
visiting Sydney as the guest of Lady
Anderson-Stuart, of Double Bay. Miss
Denman is the niece of Lord Denman,
who was Governor-General of Australia
from 1911-14. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. T. E. Henley, of Jandera, Cowra,
is in town just now, one of her important
dates being the A.W.A.S. Reunion. She
attended it with Mrs. Bing Horton,
of Vaucluse, who will be remembered as
Lieut. Helen Robinson. Mrs. Henley was
Sgt. Margaret Crittenden ; she now has
two little boys, David (3) and Robert (1).
. ☆ ☆
The Rest Centre in Hyde Park begins
to look as if it might be available for use
before long. The Lady Mayoress un-
veiled the foundation-stone during the
week, speeches being made by the Lord
Mayor, Mrs.. Gertrude Melville, M.L.C.,
and Mrs. E. G. Jesson, president of the
Housewives’ Association.
It was a former president, the late Mrs.
Elinor Glencross, who nearly five years
ago mooted the idea of a centre in the
city where women could rest, change,
shower, meet their friends and look after
their babies (or leave them to be looked
after) in pleasant surroundings. Today,
through the work of her organisation and
many other women’s associations, and
under the guidance of the Lady Mayoress,
this splendid idea is being brought to
fruition.
☆ ☆ ☆
Merchandise that will launder is to be
a feature of the fashion-parade at the
afternoon-party on the Nieuw Holland
next Tuesday, which is in aid of the Lady
Mayoress’s Relief Fund. Tickets are two
guineas each, and the party promises to
be something extra-special, with beautiful
floral decorations, and refreshments of
that wonderful Dutch cooking which is
an experience even to see.
☆ ☆ ☆
The terrors and otherwise of television
were discussed at a gathering of the
P.E.N. Club held in the drawing-room of
the Royal Empire Society during the
week. Mr. R. J. F. Boyer seemed to re-
concile the ideas of columnist Jim Mc-
Dougall, who thought television “fear-
some,” with those of author Max Afford,
who found it “inspiring.” Mr. Boyer
said that in America television was on
every hour of the day; children found it
irresistible, some spending up to 50 hours
a week with their eyes glued to it. He
also said the news was always televised,
resulting in only the most pictorial items,
such as the results of accidents, being
featured. In Britain, however, the hours
were limited (so that meal hours would
not be interrupted), and programmes
carefully controlled and supervised, with
the news regarded as sacred.
MELBOURNE
Heavy rain which had fallen all night
and through the morning stopped in
time for the garden-party given at
Bishopscourt by Archbishop Booth and
Mrs. Booth, who received the Governor
and vice-regal party. Lady Brooks, who
wore a slim-waisted black faille suit and
a small cap of tiny white flowers, was
accompanied by Anne Spraggett and Jane
Kirwan-Taylor, whose brother, Captain
T. Kirwan-Taylor, is aide-de-camp to the
Governor—she lately arrived from Eng-
land on a visit and is „a guest at G.H.
Mrs. Booth wore a junior-navy suit with
a matching hat.
Mrs. Harry Creswick was the only
woman to don a festive hat —of pastel-
pink, it had a mount of pink apple-
blossom ; her suit was of black wool.
Mrs. T. T. Hollway’s ensemble was junior-
blue. Mrs. W. L. Russell Clarke and
Mrs. Russell Barrett wore grey tailored
suits. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. W.
Brens, wore silver-fox furs with her navy
suit and small matching hat. Consular
representatives included U.S. Consul-
General Henry Stebbins and Mrs.
Stebbins, and the Chinese Consul, T. Liu,
and his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wedding-bells will ring for Dorothy
Jean, youngest daughter of Mr. S.
Stewart, of Elwood, and the late Mrs.
Stewart on November 15. She will marry
Des, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. P. Fer-
guson, of Port Melbourne, at Holy Trinity
Church, St. Kilda ; reception will be at
the Federal Hotel.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dorothy Ganly, whose career is in the
beauty field, was mainly responsible for
the charming decor of the Elizabeth
Arden salon at Buckley’s When in
Paris recently she met Miss Arden. In
private life Dorothy is Mrs. John Nan-
carrow, and her leisure hours are devoted
to music and the theatre. Photo by John
Warlow.
☆ ☆ ☆
Gay little luncheon-party was given by
Mrs. M. J. Stirling at the Beaufort Hotel
to thank her co-organisers, Lille Cou-
turier and Mrs. Con Curtain, and their
helpers at the recent Delphic dinner-
dance. The £640 profit from this effort
will be equally divided between St. Vin-
cent’s Maternity Hospital and the Limb-
less Soldiers’ Association. Unfortunately,
Mrs. Con Curtain was absent through
illness. Included in the guest list were
Mrs. A. C. Poulton, of Burnie, Lelie
Potter, Eve Mitchener and Grace
Norman.
☆ ☆ ☆ .
Ex-p.o.w. and their friends made
merry at St. Kilda Town Hall when the
association held its annual ball. In the
absence of the president, Dr. E. Dunlop,
Ray Briggs and his wife received the
official guests. Mrs. Dunlop wore a gown
of white Chantilly lace, Mrs. Briggs
hyacinth-blue crepes.
Dr. W. E. Fisher, who is president
of the Eighth Division. Council of Ex-
p.o.w., came specially from Sydney, and
representing the R.S.L. was P. O. Spicer,
who was accompanied by his wife.
Mrs. Frank Wright, whose husband
presides over the social club, was attrac-
tive in a strapless gown of dove-grey tulle
with pink lilac on the bodice; Mrs. L.
J. Atkinson, wife of the secretary, topped
her floral gown with a pastel-pink bro-
cade jacket; Mrs. Arthur Ebeling, whose
husband is treasurer of the social club,
wore a lovely frock of green-and-gold
Damascus brocade. Mrs, I. Childs wore
bouffant black tulle mounted on ice-blue
satin. Mrs. lan Reid’s black tulle frock
had a halter neckline of black velvet.
☆ ☆ *
President of the Victorian Artists
Society, R. Malcolm Warner, did the
honors when the Governor opened the
society’s spring show at the Albert-street
Gallery. Lady Brooks wore a frock of
hibiscus-pink brocade lightly hail-spotted
in white, and over it a mink stole. Mrs.
Warner’s choice was oyster-grey faille ;
her daughter Chris wore a short, white
crepe frock.
Among art-lovers there were Sir
Russell and Lady Grimwade ; Mrs. P. D
Phillips, in black; Mrs. Tristan Buesst’
whose emerald faille coat covered a frock
of brown taffeta; Dr. Arthur Joyce and
Mrs. Joyce, she in pastel-pink crepe, gold-
sequinned; Mrs. Norman Richards and
Mrs. Norman Price, both in attractive
black ensembles ; Mrs. Hermon Gill (she
is Esther Paterson, whose picture of a
portion of Collins-street is a joy for those
who like uninhibited art) and sister Betty
Paterson, also an exhibiting artist; the
Max Shaws and the Aubrey Gibsons;
and Guelda Pyke, whose black crepe
gown gained contrast from a red-velvet
stole.
☆ ☆ ☆
St. Bartholomew’s, Burnley, was the
setting for the marriage of Joyce, only
daughter of Mrs. M. Patton, of West
Heidelberg, and Milton Robert, eldest
son of Mrs. E. L. Mitchell, of Pascoe
Vale South. The bride’s gown of ice-
blue and silver lame had the bouffant
skirt cut away in front to reveal an
underskirt of matching tulle, whilst the
folded strapless bodice was covered with
a tiny bolero. The hip-length ice-blue
tulle veil fell from a tiny pill-box cap
of ice-blue and silver lame, and she
carried a trail of orchids.
Lorraine Richards and Wendy Barley
’maided in gowns of pastel-pink French
faille and heart-shaped caps, and they
carried bouquets of tiny pink roses. Best
man was the Rev. William Dowell.
At the reception, held at Berley Private
Hotel, St. Kilda, Mrs. Patton received
in a black frock with a black hat, which
had touches of pink for trimming. Mrs.
M itchell also wore black, her upturned hat
featuring a feather-mount. Among the
guests were the A. T. Smitherses, Arch-
deacon and Mrs. R. H. Williams, Mrs.
R. G. Street, Gertrude Johnson and Ray
Thomas.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the supper-dance in aid of the
Mental Hospitals Amenities Fund the
senior vice-president, Mrs. Norman
Strange, in the unavoidable absence of its
president, Mrs. W. K. Burnside, did the
honors in a black-and-gold leaf-patterned
brocade gown. Official guests included
Dr. and Mrs. Cunningham Dax and
Mr. M. G, F. Pardy and Mrs. Pardy.
Over her gown of black French crepe
Mrs. Dax wore a Chantilly-lace bolero.
Ticket-secretary Mrs. Frank Shillabeer’s
frock of ice-blue taffeta had a peacock
trained skirt. Mrs. Paddy Hutchinson’s
choice was a strapless white broderie
Anglaise frock.
Among the dancers were Mrs. John
Carrodus, whose bouffant black tulle
gown was mounted on taffeta; Mrs.
Gordon Henderson, wearing black lace
over ice-blue satin ; Mrs. Jeffrey Macart-
ney, in blue and silver satin brocade;
Mrs. Norman Rockman, whose unusual
gown was fashioned from a rose-pink-
and-gold Indian sari; Mrs., S. Aarons,
her pink laces worn under black tulle
with the bodice clustered with gold
sequins; and Mrs. Ralph Bryant, the
skirt of whose parma-violet brocade frock
was cut on redingote lines.
To celeb?atc the successful conclusion
of the first mter-State conference of the
English-Speaking Union, president of the
Victorian branch, Sir Owen Dixon, was
host at a large dinner-party at the Uni-
versity’s Union House. Sir Owen was
accompanied by Lady Dixon, and vice-
president Sir Charles Lowe, who made
one of his usual witty after-dinner
speeches, was with Lady Lowe.
In the official party were Lady Napier,
wife of the acting-Governor of S.A.—
her gown was of deep-green-and-black
shot-taffeta—-Mr. Justice Herron (N.S.W.),
Mrs. Vernon Cole, also of N.S.W., and
Mrs. Kenneth Milne, wife of the chair-
man of the executive of E.-S.U. in S.A.


sdf
u
INDIVIDUALLY
TAILORED
TO
MEASURE
The consumer only gets as much
wear out of a shirt as the maker puts
into it. That is why, with a Pike
Brothers tailored to measure shirt,
you are assured of a wealth of wear
as well as having correct style and fit.
ENGLISH MATERIALS ONLY
PM
BROTHERS UTD.,
OjF QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
sd
DUPLICATOR
1 Has al) the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion of their cost. The
■'National - ' Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely tn Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00, (Aust)
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR WILLIAM BERCKELMAN
formerly of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
ALMA EDELINE BERCKELMAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1862 of
1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 12th December 1952 and obtain
copy petition without charge from MRS.
L. F. HUTLEY, C/o M. B. BYLES &
CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN MARTIN ANGUS CALLAN
late of Jannali.—TAKE NOTICE that
JUNE CALLAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2511 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for tfiree years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 22nd day of De-
cember 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from DENSLEY
& DOWNING, Solicitors, 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W, Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A, C. 0. Parker,
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
JOB
m
3 a 3
L
m
m
111
;
m-'M
I ■
M
811
I
-
I*
11 i
■
p -
Tf i rx«
p«
r
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONBY KATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 34/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE,”
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 fines)
The worlds favourite
appetiser!
VERMOUTHS
tjfimumL Amce /S/S
SWEET, DRY AND BIANCO
Serve CINZANO before dinner,
neat or mixed in cocktails.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Artbursts
Friend and Nolan
Had the lizards and lyrebirds
Donald Friend was painting a
few months ago been delayed to
keep company with Sidney
Nolan’s dead calves and bullock-
bones in the joint show the two
artists are holding at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries it would
have made an unusually interest-
ing little collection of Aus-
traliana, the green world of the
bush and the red world of
the drought.
But even though Friend is
now submitting a report on
Venice the two exhibitions
suit each other’s company very
well ; both quiet and har-
monious in color ; rather slight;
essentially lyrical; sincere ex-
plorations of the peculiarities
of distant places. Whether in
the sensitivity of “Girls in a
Cloister” or the delicate greens
and greys of “Castle at Prato,”
Donald Friend is the firmer,
more assured technician.
Nolan’s line-drawings, resem-
bling his paintings on glass, are
loose and vacuous, but in the
small paintings on paper laid on
the back of masonite so that the
granulations show through, he
gets some attractively warm
color-effects from his dried car-
casses and decorations of shin-
bones.
If his subject-matter is to be
questioned—well, it is an aspect
of Australia, with a certain
legendary quality, and he is not
the first artist to have seen
aesthetic possibilities in a flayed
ox. It still remains to be seen,
however, what lasting qualities
these experiments have and
what Nolan is capable of in the
traditional techniques.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
John Eldershaw
John Eldershaw’s current ex-
hibition at Queensland’s Moreton
Galleries presents the stony
ranges of Central Australia, the
quiet fishing-ports of N. S.
Wales, the outskirts of country
towns merging into the trees,
boat-builders at work above
high-water mark, a native village
in North Queensland, the back-
waters of Sydney Harbor so
lyrically presented that even the
gasometers seem beautiful be-
side them, and old stone houses
cool beneath dark trees. One
of the most attractive is the
smallish “Autumn Day,” with
its grey house against the dark-
green cluster of trees and one
poplar yellowing in the soft,
clear light.
Stage and Music
“Love in Albania”
Sydney Mercury has added to
its current repertoire Linklater’s
“Love In Albania,” a verbose
and witty piece dealing with two
or three hours around midnight
in the London flat of Mr. Robert
Lawn.
Mr. Lawn’s privacy is in-
vaded by one Will Ramilles, a
roving author of unorthodox
views and lately back from a
soul - tearing love - affair in
Albania, and by the U.S. Army’s
Sergeant Dohda, who, by some
complicated sequence of events,
is the father of the other half of
Mr. Ramilles’s Albanian love-
affair, and who is hell-bent on
discovering what has happened
to his daughter.
John Appleton’s production is
bright and brisk and goes over
very well for the first two acts;
in the third, when the importance
of tying up all the loose ends
overrides his wit, Mr. Linklater’s
verbosity tends to engulf his
humor. Still, it’s all pleasantly
digestible and the cast apparently
enjoys it as much as the audi-
ence. Harp McGuire’s American
sergeant is the best performance,
followed closely by Leila Blake’s
Scottish cook.
Ken Fraser as the bewildiered
tenant of the flat gives an evenly
temperate portrayal,' and,
although her hands dart about
too often like nervous birds,
Moira Redmond makes an excel-
lent job of his scatterbrained
wife. John Barker’s wandering
author comes and goes in discon-
nected gusts but possibly
Albanian love-affairs do that to
people.
❖ ❖ *t*
“Ice Parade”
They’ve frozen over the stage
of Sydney Empire for the “Ice
Parade” —“the greatest ice show
in the world, featuring Sonja
Henie’s stars in person, imported
direct from New York.” It may,
or may not, be all of that, but
to the present commentator, who
has never yet succeeded in main-
taining a vertical position on ice
for more than 30 seconds, the
goings-on appear little short of
miraculous.
Terry Taylor, with his dancing,
whirling and leaping, is so much
at home on the ice that the pos-
sibility of his ever being any-
where else seems as remote as
the chances of meeting a
penguin in the Great Stony
Desert; likewise, Britta Rahlen
looks as though she should never
be elsewhere —unless, possibly,
at home in one’s icebox.
Along with this spectacular
couple go the Kermond Brothers
in some equally spectacular “ice-
crobatics,” and Bob and Peggy
White in an adagio item which
looks little short of suicidal;
Wilbur Wheeler, whose ice-
cycling is a nice blend of comedy
and skill; Buster and Ailsa, who
do some remarkable things with
stockwhips and lassoes; and
comedians Arthur Nelles and
Kenny Lamb.
It’s all Well-dressed, fast and
nicely punctuated with choruses
provided by the Ice Cupids and
the Ice Cavaliers.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Death’s Jest Book”
Thomas Lovell Beddoes spent
the best part of 20 years in
writing “Death’s Jest Book,”
which is not so much a drama
as a series of metaphysical
monologues in verse, which
sometimes sparkles with imagery
but is often tedious. St. Paul’s
College Mummers spent three
hours in the performance of an
abridged version in the quad-
rangle of their college at Sydney
University.
If the audience had had to
rely entirely on wooden mouth-
ings of Gothic sentiments in
the grandest of g-r-r-rand man-
ners, the three hours would
have seemed endless. However,
the weather and setting were
kinder than author and play-
wright. Excellent dressing,
moonlight and sandstone com-
bined to achieve some beautiful
pictorial effects.
One part deserves mention:
the young man who portrayed
Isbrand, the Jester, can speak
poetry. And the final scene, in
which a set of luminous-painted
skeletons perform a dance on
an unlighted stage, did achieve
impressive dramatic effect.
St. Paul’s is fortunate in
possessing acoustically efficient
cloisters topped with battle-
ments that can be walked upon.
While an adventurous spirit is
to be commended (this is
thought to be the first perform-
ance of “Death’s Jest Book”),
one cannot help thinking how
wonderful “Hamlet” would look
there—or “Romeo and Juliet.”
Talkies
“High Noon”
One for the collectors of
classic westerns, this Sydney
Plaza item has all the ingredients,
including the recommended con-
clusion with the townsfolk skulk-
ing behind doors while the main
performers stalk the deserted
streets with stiff legs, singing
nerves and itchy fingers.
Gary Cooper has done it all
before, but that doesn’t detract
from the excitement; this time
he’s the town marshal, just
retired, just married and about
to leave on his honeymoon when
he hears that a killer he sent up
eight years ago, and who swore
to return and extract vengeance,
is due back in town by the noon
train. To meet the vengeful
fellow and his three hirelings,
Mr. Cooper sets out to raise a
posse from the townsfolk; there
are no takers, so, as the train
whistle wails across the desert,
the marshal steps out into the
empty streets t 6 meet the four
gunmen.
Excellent direction along
with an effective ballad accom-
paniment—keeps the whole piece
strung up like piano-wire, and
Cooper’s brand of easy, natural
acting brings the marshal very
much to troubled life in his futile
search for courage and assistance
from the town to which he has
given law and order for years.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Five Fingers”
James Mason plays Diello, the
British Ambassador’s valet in
Turkey who sold secrets to
the German Ambassador, von
Papen. The film, American, says
the secrets were genuine; so
does von Papen; but Berlin
Germans are shown suspecting
a plant.
Mason’s valet, who yearns to
be a white-dinner-jacketed gent,
in Rio de Janeiro, is worthy of
the brilliant story the scenarists
have made of the Moyzitch
book, rejoicing as a servant in
the submission of his former
employer, a moneyless Polish
countess (Danielle Darrieux),
whom he employs as a front
for his deals.
Not since one waited for one’s
wife to discover broken the last
cup of her pre-marital tea-ser-
vice has one felt such suspense
as when Mason photographs
documents beside an open safe ;
the treason of the countess
brings strange sympathy for
him; and the audience is left
admiring his evasion of both
British and German hunters.
(Sydney Regent.)
❖ ❖ ❖
“I’ll Never Forget You”
This 20th Century-Fox re-
make of Leslie Howard’s “Berke-
ley Square” is brought right
up-to-date by having a young
atom scientist projected back
into the late 18th century.
He finds plenty of fission-
able material in Ann Blyth,
and, after hobnobbing with
Boswell, Johnson, Reynolds
and the Duchess of Devonshire,
he is duly blown back, after an
amorous explosion, into the
present century, only to find that
the girl back in the powder-and-
patch period is none other than
his scientific friend’s sister.
Although Tyrone Power never
quite achieves Howard’s polish,
his performance is sound
enough. At Sydney Century.
❖ * ❖
Other current films: “Steel-
town” (Sydney Victory): John
Lund as the boss’s nephew and
Anne Sheridan as a gorgeous
hash-slinger aren’t quite as effec-
tive as the technicolored shots of
the steel industry; “New
Mexico” (Civic): Lively little
western with Injuns and Lew
Ayres having to clean up some-
one else’s fight for them; “Out-
casts of Poker Flat” (Park): A
gloomy western which has gone
a long way from Bret Harte’s
original yarn; “Hurricane
Island” (Capitol): A female
pirate chief, no less.


Speaking Likeness
by J.B.BLAIR
MR. NOYSE thought he was
inured to front - door
shocks. True, he was
never quite sure just what
kind of response his ring on the
door-bell would produce, but he
felt he had the various types of
answer pretty well graded. It is,
of course, his own front door
we are considering. At other
people’s front doors Mr. Noyse
never encountered anything but
civility ; at his own door that
was the last thing he expected-
well, almost.
That the response varied from
day to day was due to the chang-
ing moods and humors of the
Noyse offspring. One night the
door might be flung open swiftly
for two Noyse children to throw
themselves as swiftly upon their
father, all eagerness to greet him.
This would have afforded Noyse
complete paternal satisfaction
had not experience taught him
that as often as not it was merely
a diversion designed to distract
his attention from a third Noyse
child poised on the transom
above, ready to drop down on
his shoulders with a yell, or from
a fourth Noyse child about to
burst a paper-bag behind him.
That was a more or less direct
approach; more subtle and
much more nerve-trying was the
door which silently opened half
an inch and then stood there
waiting to be pushed.
This might mean anything.
There might be a Noyse child
hidden behind it waiting to give
an earsplitting yell as Mr. Noyse
entered; there might be an
unsteady pile of toys heaped
against the door, ready to crash
with an unholy clatter as soon
as he opened it; there might be
merely a few drums, toy trains
or mechanical toys strewn
around the floor to trip his
unwary feet before his eyes
accustomed themselves to the
comparative gloom of the hall.
There might be a wedge under
the door to prevent its opening
any further; there might be a
Noyse child crouching low
ready to grab his leg and yell;
there might be nothing at all in
the hall, just some muffled
giggling coming from one of the
rooms.
Sometimes it might happen
that the door would not open at
all, but after the second or third
ring a small Noyse head would
be thrust out through a front
window and an innocent-sound-
ing young voice would ask
“Have you lost your key,
Daddy?” The question was
neither as innocent nor solicitous
as it sounded. As all his children
were well aware, Mr. Noyse had
lost not one but many keys, and
it was through his wife’s refusal
to yield up to him the sole
remaining key in the house that
he was reduced to the
ignominious condition of having
to ring his own door-bell.
TO all these modes of greeting
Mr. Noyse was, then, quite
accustomed. They were known
perils and calculated risks which
he was prepared to take for the
privilege of entering his own
home. He was therefore not in
the least surprised when in reply
to his ring the door opened a few
inches. But he was completely
surprised when around the door
a sinister-looking Chinese face
leered malevolently at him. He
had been about to enter, but at
the sight of this unexpected
apparition he stepped back a
pace. Then a small squeaky
voice said:
“Hello, Mr. Daddy. How do
you like my pigtail?” and the
Asiatic head bent forward,
allowing a length of plait to fall
down in front of it,
Mr. Noyse regained his com-
posure. He was sure of three
things—first, that no Chinaman
had any grounds for ad-
dressing him as Daddy ;
second, that no China-
man had a head as
small as an orange, un-
less it had been pro-
cessed by South Ameri-
can Indians; and
thirdly, that the voice
belonged to his middl-
ing-sized son Tony,
aged seven.
“You little devil! ” he
said. “What do you
mean by scaring me
like that?”
The Chinese face
disappeared, to be re-
placed by the round, grinning
visage of Tony.
“Did I really frighten you,
Daddy?” he asked eagerly.
“Goodie, I didn’t think I would.
It’s a beaut, isn’t it?” he added,
holding up the mandarin’s head.
“Where on earth did you get
it?”
“It’s David’s puppet. He made
it at school for a puppet-show,
and I’m going to make one, too,
because if David made one, I
can make one, only mine’s not
going to be a Chinaman puppet,
it’s going to be an ordinary
puppet like you.”
“Hey, give me my puppet.”
The peremptory request came
from ten-year-old David, owner
and creator of the monstrosity,
who without other warning
rushed past his' father and
snatched his property. It was not
the wisest thing to do, as Tony
at the moment had only a loose
grip on the more solid part of the
effigy, but a tight hold on the
pigtail. The result was that
David got the puppet, but the
pigtail stayed in the possession
of his brother. For a moment
Tony stared in dismay at the
length of hair he was holding;
but any regrets he may have felt
were quickly banished as David
fell upon him in vengeful fury.
Mr. Noyse dragged them apart,
Tony yelling that he “didn’t
mean to do it,” and David assert-
ing, though not in those exact
words, that the scalping had been
premeditated.
The din of conflict brought the
rest of the Noyse family to the
scene, Patricia, the eldest of the
children, coming at the double,
Mrs. Noyse with slightly less
unseemly haste and four-year-
old Richard bringing up the rear.
“Poor dolly,” said Richard.
“It’s not a doll. It’s a puppet,”
yelled David indignantly.
“It’s a doll,” said Tony, taking
up the running. “David must be
a sissy if he plays with dolls.”
“It’s not a doll and I don’t
play with it,” said David,
“It’s for our class puppet-
show. We’re doing a play called
‘The Discovery of Roast Pig,’
and we all have to hold our
puppets up behind the
stage and talk for
them.”
“Talking to dolls is
sissy,” commented
Tony.
“We’re not talking to
them. We’re talking
for them.”
Mr. Noyse chipped
in.
“What’s your part,
David?” he asked.
“Your puppet’s part, I
mean. Is he the one
who discovers roast
pig?”
“No. Tenth villager.
I have to say ‘Yum yum, that’s
good.’ ”
“Yum yum, that’s sissy,”
mocked Tony.
Before the, puppet was
mentioned again, the even-
ing meal was almost over.
“David, will you show me
how to make a puppet?” asked
Tony, apparently prepared to
forget the sissiness of puppetry.
“You wouldn’t be able to do
it. It’s too hard,” replied his
brother with the superior air to
which he felt the three-years
difference in their ages entitled
him,
“I could so. I know what to
do. You mash up a lot of paper,
then you stick it together with
glue and paint it.”
“You do not!” A triumphant
note, this.
“What do you do, then?”
“Well, first of all you have to
get a cardboard cylinder.”
“What’s a cylinder?” asked
Tony doubtfully.
“Well, it’s round and it has to
be about this long and —er —like
this,” David explained, more
with his fingers than with his
words. “You won’t be able to
find one,” he concluded. “And
you won’t be able to make a
puppet unless you do.”
Tony jumped up from the
table. “I know where there’s
one,” he triumphed. “I’ll go
and get it.” He dashed out of
the room. Mrs. Noyse rose at
the same time and took some
dishes out to the kitchen. In a
couple of minutes Tony was
back again with a small card-
board cylinder about six inches
long.
“Will this do?” he asked.
“Gee! It’s just right,” said
David in mingled surprise and
admiration. “Where did you get
it?”
“I just found it.”
“Let me see,” said Mr. Noyse,
reaching out his hand for the
article. “By gosh, I know what
this is.”
“What, Daddy?” asked
Patricia eagerly.
“To -ny !” It was Mrs. Noyse
calling. “Come here at once.”
Tony went. Mr. Noyse, still
holding the cylinder of card-
board, followed, and the other
children trailed on behind.
“Oh, Daddy, look at all the
paper,” cried Patricia.
Mr. Noyse was already look-
ing. For some reason a pictuie
had flashed into his mind of
Wall-street in carnival mood
when the footpaths are a tangled
mass of ticker-tape. He’d seen
it in the newsreels. The stuff that
was cluttering up the floor of
the Noyse hall, spiralling its way
into the lounge, lying coil upon
coil in the boys’ bedroom and
{Continued on page 22)
PLACE OF MANY CROWS...
ERIC IRVIN
[Wagga Wagga, on the Murrumbidgee. The name js said to be the aboriginal term for “place where crows congregate,” or “place of many crows.”
Wagga Wagga station was established in 1832. The town began 15 years later.J
1. TRANSPORTER
So often in the fifteen years
Had he crossed the bridge
Between the Murrumbidgee and Essex
That, like a sign seen too often,
It was no longer there.
Piece by piece it crumbled away
Until there was a gap in time
No engineer had the heart to span.
And he was the solitary man
Clemmed in a nightmare land
Where honeysuckle trees
Huddled in wastes of sand.
His life a georgic without grace,
An arid string of rhyming days,
He counted in this dream that would not
break
The sheep of grey-brown madness
In the wake of every sun
Till day and night were one
Dark prison.
But the dream did end.
The prison crash to earth
With the fall of a mighty gum,
Smashing the eggshell past,
Freeing the river that snarled
Its brown envy at the sky,
And his hands for the task
Held deep in the redgum’s heart.
Slowly he built, and sure.
Seeing with wonder the new land
Grow to his touch as the seed
By the sun from its long sleep freed.
2. THE MASTER
Two calculating brown-rock eyes
Set in a sea of beard.
What lay behind them both np man
Could say, but all men feared.
John “Petty Sessions” Peter stood
Twelve feet above all men
In lands and sheep and chattel-slavesi —
An empire in his pen.
Pile high the precious, smutty fleece
In sound-proof cells to cheat
The pain that sings within the lash, «
The clank of fettered feet.
His hand of might, tight-gloved with gold,
Could bend the steel of law
To any-every shape, smash down
The land’s most robust door.
Let flame and gun drive settlers out
And other scum who keep
Strange gods of earth to flaunt before
Divine right of the sheep.
O that tomorrow’s nursery wall
Could with its fables show
John Peter and his just reward
Frescoed in horrid glow.
But it must tell another tale,
Speak truth rather than fable:
John Peter died when all men were
Like brothers—Cain and Abel.
3. THE CHURCH
Thirtle there was, a man of simian cast
With large, prehensile hands whose
blackened thumbs,
Spatulate on iron, could bend with their
strength
The most obstinate dream; as when,
Wanting the inglimpsed beauty
To settle on the village
He built God’s house, a cage to hold
The bird that fluttered restlessly
Within the narrow cage of his ribs.
Sapling and bark, and a sliver
Of iron from a broken wheel
To call all men from evil.
He had stalked across th« sandhill
At dusk, bringing his solitude with him,
And by the river bank, half-built, half-dug,
Set in the red clay, had made his smithy,
Caliban-like he crouched in his glowing
cave,
Filled suddenly from nowhere, it seemed,
With loops and strips of iron, nails,
A shattered wooden wheel, iron rims
And all the rusty mysteries of his craft.
But the iron call was a shriek
That seared him, who heard
In his brain a clearer call
Cleaving the darkness.
“Hate is in that sound a cruel voice
Calling the convict to the lash’s shame.”
Only one sound could kill that memory,
And it lay in the heart of fire.
Murrumbidgee clay shaped it,
And the silent love
That could match a despair with a simple
faith.
The leather bellows squeaked, the fire
Flashed lizard-tongues unceasingly
At the rough crucible.
The sluggish, smoking metal hissed at the
clay’s cool touch.
The world stood time-spelled till the truth
Came from the clay to set it free.
One and all marvelled that such a rough
throat
Could tell the sweet tale that evil cannot
tell.
“Now we must build a house to match it
well,
Or shame will curfew us with every note.”
4. THE FARMER
Basil Bennett clenched his fist
And crammed it in doubt’s maw.
‘l’ve got a plough to make,” he said—
“ And devil take your jaw.”
Out on the sandhills the honeysuckle-tree
With tetchy sighs resists the dawn-wind’s
banter.
He swings the long-blade axe, the morning
shudders,
The honeysuckle showers his sweating
head
With golden thread.
Not till the heat of noon
Flashes along the Jblade its sullen warning
Is plough-foot from the trunk and root set
free.
The stubborn field lay to his hand,
Though stump and thistle hid it.
“Who sees the gold wheat growing here
Can say that Bennett did it,”
The stolid bullocks with titanic play
Of flanks plod out the course the green-
wood plough
Must follow. As he tilts the share the
foaming
Redgum earth breaks into richness dragged
From the snagged
Obsessive depths of dream.
Though hidden roots shatter the plough
the golden
Certainty lies next week’s furrows away.
“Then give me back my fist,” said he
To doubt, “and take my hat.
I’ve got another plough to make—
You try your teeth on that.”


¥K>M> f|
I :
' ■ '
X A
m
m
......
;■>*; *
m
mm
mm
Step by step . •
1854:
James Holden opens coach and saddlery
equipment business in Adelaide.
1917 :
Automobile bodies are built in Australia
for the first time by Holden Motor Body
Builders.
1926:
General Motors open in Australia
assembly plants in five States.
with
19311
General Motors merge with Hol f* n
Body Builders to form General Moto
Holden’s Ltd.
ms
1936:
New 50-acre plant at Fishermen’s Bend,
Victoria, introduces modern assembly-line
production. NASCO—Australia’s biggest
parts and accessories organisation—formed.
ret
1939:
GMH extend production with 34-acre
plant at Pagewood, N.S.W. Today, part
of this plant is used to produce Fngidaire
refrigerators.
1940-45
GMH devotes its entire production facili-
ties and 10,000 skilled workers to the job
of helping provide our forces with essential
defence equipment.
• , W oflp bv the introduction ot
S - Australia’ s Own Car Holden
presented the culmination of years of
anning and the outlay of millions
>unds.
1951:
?he 50,000 th Holden rolls off the pro-
luction line.
1952:
152-acre site secured at Dandenong, near
Melbourne, for future expansion of General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
wMSS^
wm
>^- y :
wm
Wmm».
m
S:v/ ./• . •>■ ■
I
m
v\ v *• •••• .&*
- „***» -;::
ismgmmjK
4y %
«
■
>:<&:
II
lif
i;H|
I
; ■ :
«**
. . . by forward planning, efficient management at all
levels, and the ploughing back of profits into plant
and equipment. General Motors-Holden’s Ltd. have
contributed to the progress and development of Australia.
Through their policy of “more and better things for more
people”. General Motors-Holden’s have added to the
ever-improving standard ol living ot the Australian people.
ii
.. d/
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
5020 D


SAVE up to £3OO
a year with the new HANOMAG
DIESEL
R 45 TRACTOR
-uv /m/cwfa atone/
5®
{S
H€R€s P
PL
o''-
-v;
o^3°'
/qd
X
ga
Ih
id
/"
fue
A/*
Won
coA ? er r
6 /\od
qa
V\OW
2/'° d
\Zl^'
V\on
ufnv
Con 5
Sue'
Vdovin
ft*
vt*
V\OU^
tf> G
000
ft**
w^ G
vdM*°
,J
Hanomag’s big benefits mean pounds in your
pocket. Study the chart above, TAKEN FROM
ACTUAL OFFICIAL FIELD TESTS —it
clearly shows the superiority of the Flanomag R 45
Diesel tractor. SEE just how far ahead Hanomag is
operation! Ask your local agent for a demonstration.
in economical
HANOMAG R4s’s “ahead-of-the-fleld” features
include extra manoeuvrability—independent rear
wheel brakes reduce turning radius to lift. 10in.;
13in. ground clearance; instant starting from
electric starter and preheating device; wide
speed range—five forward speeds ranging from
2.17 to 10.75 m.p.h.; easily pulls a 22-ton trailer
load in sth gear; hand-operated differential
lock prevents bogging. AND IT HAS A DRAW-
BAR PULL OF 6723 lbs. IN Ist GEAR.
DEMC9 Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd
243-47 Cleveland Street, REDFERN, N.S.W.
'Phone MX 4121
Distributors - QUEENSLAND: Demco
Machinery Co. (Q’land) Ltd., C/o Box
93b, G.P.0., Brisbane. VICTORIA: Demco
Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 355 William Street,
Melbourne. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Shipp
Bros., Hilton Road, Adelaide. WEST
AUSTRALIA: E. E. (Joe) Hancock, 59
Lord Street, Perth.
To DEMCO MACHINERY CO. PTY. LTD.
243-47 Cleveland Street, REDFERN.
Please forward, without obligation, full details of
the Hanomag R 45 Tractor.
NAME
ADDRESS -
B. 8/10/’‘s2
leading, a wide, white streamer
into the bathroom, was not
ticker-tape.
“I wanted to get the cylinder
out,” Tony was explaining tear-
fully to his mother.
“But a whole new roll!” said
his mother. “You naughty boy.
And why did you have to trail
it round the whole house?”
“Well I thought I’d unroll it
in the bedroom first, so I went
there from the bathroom but
there was such a lot so I thought
I'd do it on the way back to the
table It finished up when 1 was
m the lounge. There was a
tinge of regret in his voice, as
though he felt the supply should
have lasted till he got back to the
dining-room.
FOR the next couple of days
puppet-making menaced the
peace of the whole household,
Mrs. Noyse complained that
every basin in the house seemed
to be full of water in which torn-
up scraps of newspaper were
soaking, Mr. Noyse that he
couldn’t sit down on a chair
without getting glue or paste or
Wet bits of paper on his pants,
As a puppet - maker Tony
possessed persistency if not
art ' s ‘ ry - a ~ ,
The ears and eyes took shape
when he succeeded in catching
his mother in co-operative mood,
Mr. Noyse put a bit of work into
the chin, and Patricia, with a
lock of hair filched from one of
her dolls, supplied the puppet
with dark, bushy eyebrows. The
nose was entirely Tony’s own
work and it was a beak to be
proud of. “A bit too big,” his
mother suggested. “Not big
enough,” ruled Tony, and on
went a few more layers of
soaked paper.
“When are you going to paint
it?” asked Patricia.
“Now,” said the creator of the
puppet, diving for his paintbox.
When Mr. Noyse came home
that night, instead of the China-
man’s visage leering at him
around the door, a new face
confronted him. It was really a
nose that confronted him, the
rest of the face being more or
less incidental to that organ.
For a moment Mr. Noyse was
almost as startled as when the
Chinaman had greeted him a few
days earlier. Then he laughed
loud and long, patted Tony on
the head, took the puppet in his
hand and marched out to Mrs.
Noyse with it.
“Look at it,” he ordered.
“Now who do you think it’s
like?”
His wife replied that she hoped
there was no one on earth like
the awful thing, but that wasn’t
explicit enough for Noyse.
“Come on, have a good look,”
he said. “You must see the
resemblance. It’s the spitting
image of old Adams. Look at
it. Old Josh to the life!”
“Old Josh” was the name by
which Noyse and other members
of the staff of the Joshua Adams
Emporium referred to the
founder and managing-director
of the firm.
Mrs. Noyse considered the
latest puppet judicially and
admitted that there was some
likeness.
“I’ll say there is,” said Mr.
Noyse. “Spitting image. Look
at that nose.”
Mrs. Noyse, a fair-minded
woman, said she thought the
nose was perhaps a trifle too big
for Mr. Adams, but Noyse would
have none of it.
“Not on your life!” he said.
“Old Josh has the biggest nose
in town, anyhow. Except p’raps
for old Sam Bragger. It’s a toss-
up between ’em, I’d say.”
Bragger was the owner of
Universal Stores, chief rival to
the emporium. Not that big
noses and big stores necessarily
go together. The fact is men-
tioned merely as a matter of
record.
TONY’S puppet accordingly
became “Josh” for Mr. and
Mrs. Noyse. His creator had a
different name for him every day,
for the puppet was called upon
to perform a variety of roles. In
the short space of a quarter of
an hour’s performance at the
puppet-theatre which Tony and
David rigged-up with the help of
a clothes-horse and a couple of
old blankets “Josh” might be
Buffalo Bill fighting a horde of
Indians, the boy who stood on
the burnipg deck, Horatius at the
bridge, Hopalong Cassidy, Brer
Rabbit or Christopher Robin
saying his prayers. “Josh” was
overworked to a degree that
would have roused Actors’
Equity to indignation.
In addition to being called on
to give innumerable shows a day
and command performances
every time a visitor came to the
Noyse house, his owner expected
him to be ready at any time to
bob up from behind a chair,
couch or other piece of furni-
ture, to peer around doors, the
corners of wardrobes or even
through windows, in the hope of
startling other members of the
Noyse family. Mr. Noyse, com-
fortably settled in an armchair
and reading the evening paper,
would become aware of being
watched. He would look round
and see the large nose of “Josh”
pointed at him around the end of
the bookcase. Mrs. Noyse would
slip into the pantry for some-
thing ; when she returned to the
kitchen “Josh” would be peeping
over the top of the stove.
Patricia, absorbed in her home-
work, would suddenly emit a
loud scream as “Josh’s” head
rose slowly into view on the
other side of the table. Mostly
“Josh” would be alone —apart
from the chuckling presence of
his creator —but sometimes he
would be supported by Shank
Eye Shack, to which eminence
the roast-pig Chinaman had been
promoted.
“Bringing old Josh home to
dinner on Tuesday, dear,”
announced Noyse one evening.
“He wants to wise me up on a
few points before I go to Mel-
bourne on the buying trip.”
“That’s Wednesday morning,
isn’t it?”
“Yes.”
“Let me see,” mused Mrs.
Noyse. “If the Big Boss is
coming to dinner I’d better
arrange something special. I’ll
get a nice ...”
Noyse was not concerned
about the bill-of-fare. Another
thought had struck him.
“Hell!” he said. “We’ll have
to make sure Tony keeps that
damned puppet out of sight.
Can’t have old Josh seeing that.
He’d have a fit.”
Mrs. Noyse agreed. Tony was
therefore warned that “Josh”
was not on any account to be
produced on Tuesday night.
His reception of the ban was
far from co-operative. “Couldn’t
I just show it to him?” he
pleaded. “I won’t tell him what
you call it.”
“No! ” said his father
emphatically.
“I could tell him it’s meant to
look like you,” suggested Tony.
“You’ll tell him nothing and
you’ll show him nothing,” said
Mr. Noyse.
MR. ADAMS arrived with
Tuesday evening. Mrs.
Noyse hadn’t seen him for some
months, and she could hardly
keep a straight fgce as she
noticed his likeness to the puppet.
Still, old Josh had no objections
to a pretty woman smiling at
him, and he didn’t trouble to
question the reason. The dinner
passed off most successfully.
Old Josh made complimentary
remarks about Mrs. Noyse’s
cooking, and laughed with
apparent genuineness at a joke
Noyse had been saving up for
the occasion. The four Noyse
children were for once all on
their best behavior. “All good
at the same time!” thought Mrs.
Noyse. “I would hardly have
believed it possible.”
When the meal was over
Noyse took his chief into the
lounge. The three boys fol-
lowed ; Patricia and Mrs. Noyse
busied themselves with the
dishes. But old Josh was in
genial mood, and made it clear
he didn’t want to upset the
routine of the house.
“Don’t worry about me,” he
said to Noyse. “I know how it
is with you young married folk.
Run off and help your wife with
the washing-up l —l’ll have a chat
with the kiddies.”
With some misgivings Noyse
did as he was bidden. Mrs.
Noyse was even more doubtful.
A few minutes later when unmis-
takable sounds from the lounge
showed that old Josh was being
subjected to a Noyse Brothers
concert, she urged her husband
to go back and save him. But
Noyse seemed to have changed
his mind.
“No,” he said. “Let ’em go.
We’ll be finished before he gets
bored and then we can shoot
’em off to bed.”
A few plates later he found
himself worrying again. The
concert-party had moved from
the lounge into the lobby next
door to the kitchen.
“His proper name’s Ho-Ti, but
we call him Shank Eye Shack,”
David’s voice was heard
explaining. >
“Hell! They’ve got the
puppets,” whispered Noyse.
“Only David’s,” reported
Patricia, after a peep through
the door.
OLD JOSH was heard passing
flattering remarks about the
puppet. Then up piped little
Richard’s voice. “Tony’s got
one, too.”
“Has he now?” said old Josh.
“And what’s yours called,
Tony?”
Mr. and Mrs. Noyse held their
breath.
“Oh, I just call it anything,”
said Tony offhandedly.
“Aren’t you going to show it
to me?”
There was a pause ; then the
listening-post in the kitchen
heard Tony mumble that he
wasn’t sure where it was. This
seemed to increase old Josh’s
interest. “A pity,” he said. “I
wanted to see which was the best,
yours or David’s. Still, I don’t
suppose that would be fair.
After all, David’s older than
you.”
“My puppet’s as good as his,”
asserted Tony.
“Huh, that’s what you think,”
scoffed David,
“I bet Mr. Adams would think
it was,” said Tony. “He’d think
it was better than yours.”
“Huh!” said David. “You
wouldn’t, would you, Mr.
Adams?”
Old Josh, not wishing to take
sides, replied that he couldn’t
very well say without seeing both
puppets.
“All right,” said Tony. “I’ll
get mine.”
“Hell!” said Mr. Noyse.
“He’s fishing in the rag-bag,”
Patricia reported.
“Tony,” shouted Mr. Noyse.
“I want you a moment.”
“It’s all right. Daddy,” replied
Tony. “I’m not going to say it.”
“He’s got his puppet,”
whispered Patricia.
“That’s torn it,” Noyse
muttered to his spouse.
There was silence for a few
moments, then old Josh’s voice
was heard.
“Hmm. A very fine puppet.
What did you say you called it?"
“Damned old idiot,” hissed
Noyse.
“I’m not allowed to tell you
that,” explained Tony. “We
call it what we do call it because
it looks like somebody we know,
and we call it after him because
of that.”
“Oh, I see. And this person
it looks like. Is it very like
him?”
“Well, Mummy says the nose
is too big, but Daddy says no,
it’s just right ’cos old—er —the
person it looks like has got the
biggest nose in town.”
“Daddy knows him best, eh?”
“Yes, he knows him best. He
says it’s a spitting image.”
“And this person, did you
copy his face when you were
making the puppet?”
“Oh, no! It just came like
that.”
Then the concert broke out
again and it seemed to the
listeners in the kitchen that
the crisis had passed. Shank
Eye Shack and “Josh” were
being put through their usual
paces, and the boys were
proceeding with great deter-
mination to give the visitor every
piece in their repertoire, Noyse
ventured a peep through the
door-crack. Old Adams was
patiently submitting to the
ordeal. It would be an exaggera-
tion to say he was enjoying it.
His face was almost without
expression and his applause,
given religiously at the con-
clusion of each item, could
hardly be called enthusiastic.
He seemed to Noyse to be pre-
occupied over something.
“I’ll have to get him away
from that thing,” said Mr.
Noyse to his wife. “You and
Patricia can finish here.”
He went into the lobby, called
for the final curtain, allowed
three or four “last” items,
screwed his face into a grin to
simulate an amusement he was
far from feeling, and finally
managed to shepherd Old Josh
back into the lounge and hustle
the boys off to the bathroom
en route to bed.
T OSH ADAMS didn’t stay
very late. Efforts on the
part of his host and hostess to
draw him into light party con-
versation got nowhere ; Old Josh
made it fairly clear by his
manner that he didn’t want to
engage in party conversation.
Mrs. Noyse tried two or three
openings recommended hy het


Wlm uoti want a cpod iuitr
m)m au/w tke mateAud t 6
frusaier
<-A o
NKX Vv,
-.x
: 8888 S
w
1
V *,
V:
V
€
✓ s
■m
(trusaber
TRADE MARK
of Quality
For 44 years Crusader has been weav-
ing cloth that competes with the best
made anywhere in the World.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, her prize-winning Worsted
Cloths have easily become the standard
of Quality throughout our land.
You are cordially invited to inspect
the new 1952-53 range of Crusader
Suitings which are now available. Ask
your favourite tailor to show you his
attractive Crusader Pattern Book.
Every cloth is fully guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. Your tailor will
tell you Crusader Worsteds tailor well,
for they are the product of a Mill that
is proud of its Cloths.
So, when you want a good suit—a suit
you will want to wear because you
look your best in it, make sure your
material is Crusader—the Cloth that
has behind it 44 years of service and
satisfaction.
tfrusadcu flolli
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
CI-113
favorite writers on etiquette as
infallible for bridging “those
awkward silences so embarras-
sing to the hostess,” but it was
no use. Josh seemed to think
awkward silences were better left
unbridged. Mrs. Noyse was
rather relieved when during a
particularly long awkward
silence the old boy asked for his
brief-case, and, Noyse having
fetched it, brought forth some
papers and began discussing the
details of the Melbourne trip.
She was quite happy to retire
from the conversational field and
take refuge in a corner armchair
and her knitting.
“Don’t know what to make of
it,” said Noyse after Adams had
taken his departure. “When we
were talking over the Melbourne
trip it was just as if nothing had
happened ; yet there’s no deny-
ing he was a different man after
he saw that damned puppet.
Look at him at dinner ; quite
jolly. Yet after the kids went
to bed we couldn’t get a word
out of him.”
“Oh, hang him, anyway,” said
Mrs. Noyse. “If the silly old
man is going to have his feelings
hurt because a puppet happened
to look a bit like him, why
should we worry? All that
supper I had ready for him, too.
And he went off without eating
a bit. Who does he think he is?”
“It not who he thinks he is,
it’s who he is,” retorted her
husband. “And he happens to
be the boss. He owns the whole
box and dice, don’t forget.”
“Don’t worry any more about
it,” counselled Mrs. Noyse.
“Perhaps he just had a touch of
liver tonight.”
“Yes—when he saw the
puppet.”
“That was just a coincidence.
Probably he didn’t even recog-
nise any likeness to himself.
After all, he’s a pretty conceited
old wretch. Come to bed and
don’t worry any more about it.”
NOYSE was not able to banish
his fears so easily. They
stayed with him throughout the
night; and the first words he
heard on awaking next morning
increased them vastly.
It was Tony’s voice that dis-
turbed him, and the ominous
words were “Somebody’s pinched
my puppet.”
Noyse called Tony in and
asked for an explanation.
“It’s gone,” said Tony. “My
puppet ‘Josh.’ I left him on the
box alongside the clothes-horse
with Shank Eye Shack. When I
got up this morning Shank Eye
was still there, but ‘Josh’ has
gone. Somebody must’ve
pinched it.”
“It must be there somewhere,”
said Noyse. “Who’d want to
steal a puppet?” He knew the
answer to that himself, but was
fighting against accepting it.
“We’ve looked everywhere,”
E Tony assured him, “and we can’t
[ find it.”
Rather to Tony’s surprise
I Noyse jumped out of bed and
| joined in the search. Mrs.
Noyse also helped, but after ten
minutes’ hunting there was still
no sign of “Josh.” It seemed
useless searching further. Mrs.
Noyse no longer held her don’t-
worry mood of the night before.
“He must have taken it,” she
murmured to Noyse.
“How could he?” asked
Noyse. “It was in the lobby
when we all went into the lounge
and the old blighter didn’t go
out there again.”
“But he did. While you were
getting Tiis brief-case. Said he’d
left his cigarette-case out there
and went to get it. He wasn’t
gone a moment and he came
back with the cigarettes in his
hand. I suppose he’d slipped the
puppet into his pocket.”
“That settles it,” Noyse said.
“And me, too,”
THE Melbourne trip lasted a
fortnight. It was the first
time Noyse had been trusted
with an inter-State assignment
and he was keen to make a
success of it. At the end of the
fortnight he had the satisfying
feeling of having done so, and
his return to Sydney would have
been marked by high spirits had
it not been for the memory of
Old Josh and the puppets. He
had been more or less able to
dismiss them from his mind
while he was in Melbourne, but
it all came back to him as he
approached the Joshua Adams
Emporium.
“Oh, Mr. Noyse,” the girl at
the inquiry-desk greeted him;
“Mr. Adams said you were to
see him as soon as you came in.”
Noyse went straight in, to find
Adams speaking on the phone.
He made to withdraw, but the
old man grunted at him and
pointed to a chair. Noyse sat
down and glanced towards the
window. Obviously the boss
merely wanted a report on his
trip. That would be easy. He
was confident that everything
had gone all right. He'd tell
him about —Hell!
He had shifted his gaze from
the windpw to the bookcase and
there it was. Tony’s puppet
“Josh”!
He shot a glance at the real
Josh to see if the old man was
aware that he had noticed the
puppet. Apparently he wasn’t;
he seemed absorbed in his phone
conversation. Noyse shifted his
chair slightly so as to remove
the puppet from his immediate
line of vision and gazed once
more towards the window, which
gave an excellent view of the
blank wall of the adjoining build-
ing. Presently Josh replaced the
receiver on the rest and grunted
again at Noyse. Noyse took
this as his cue and hastened to
say “Good morning, Mr.
Adams. I just got back.”
It was a little disconcerting to
have Josh reply “Back from
where?”
“From Melbourne.”
“Melbourne? Oh, of course.
You’ve been down there, haven't
you? Well, I’m not concerned
about Melbourne for the
moment. Got your interim
report and I’ll see your final one
later. Just now I want to see
you about a very different
matter.”
“Different matter?” repeated
Noyse, trying to prevent his gaze
from wandering towards the
puppet.
“Yes.”
Old Josh fumbled in a drawer
and pulled out a document.
Covering most of it with a sheet
of blotting-paper, he pointed to
the tiny strip still exposed and
said “Sign this.”
Noyse walked over to the
table. He took the pen that was
held out to him, then hesitated.
“Er, what exactly is it
you? ...”
“Can’t you trust me?” rapped
out his employer.
“Yes, of course, but ...”
“Well, you’ve got a funny way
of showing it.”
“I trust you all right, sir, but
it’s just that I feel ...”
“Never mind what you feel.
Sign the thing! ”
Noyse signed, wondering the
while whether the document was
his resignation or a letter of
apology or whether he had
merely signed as a witness to
some transaction Josh wanted to
keep secret. He had a feeling
tfiat the circumstances of his
signing almost amounted to
duress, but he couldn’t see how
that fact would help him if his
first guess turned out to be right.
“Good!” said Josh. He folded
up the paper and put it in his
pocket. “Now, come along with
me,” he said, rising and making
towards the door.
“This is it,” thought Noyse.
“Up to the cashier for a fort-
night’s salary and finish. And
all because of an ugly little
puppet.” Well, he wasn’t going
to take it lying down.
Aloud he said to Josh as he
followecj him into the passage.
“Hey, js this anything to do with
that damned puppet?”
“How did you guess?” asked
the boss, without looking back.
“Well, I know you pinched
it. I mean I had a pretty good
idea you must have taken it that
night, and just now 1 saw it in
your room.”
“I suppose the lad wants it
back?”
Noyse was not concerned for
the moment with Tony’s wants
and desires. He replied with
some heat that he didn’t care if
Tony never got the damned thing
back, concluding with an earnest
“Look here, sir, the whole thing
was just an accident. Just a
coincidence.”
“Coincidence or not,” replied
Joshua, “it was a remarkable
resemblance. You won’t deny
that?”
HE paused and looked at
Noyse, who mumbled some-
thing about the likeness being
only superficial.
“Superficial, my foot,” said
Josh. “Young Tony told me you
said it was the spitting image.
Come on.”
He turned again and led the
way round the corner and
through an archway into the
novelty department. Noyse was
amazed to see a display of
hundreds of replicas of Tony’s
puppet.
Old Adams beamed. “There
you are,” he said. “What d’you
think of ’em? This week’s
novelty line. I’ll guarantee they
sell like hot cakes.”
Noyse made no reply, but the
boss wasn’t really expecting one.
He went on:
“The idea came to me that
night at your place. I said to
myself that if your kids could
get fun out of puppets, why not
try them out on other kids? I
borrowed Tony’s puppet and
had these made exactly the same.
We’re running a window display,
too, and there’s another big
counter of them down in the toy
department. By the end of the
week every kid in town will have
one of these puppets, and the
cream of the joke is that every
single one is the dead-spit of old
Sam Bragger. Coincidence or
not, you can’t get away from it!
‘Biggest nose in town,’ you said.
Didn’t you?”
“Ye-es,” admitted Noyse.
“This is going to give me the
biggest laugh I’ve had in years,”
continued Old Josh. “I can just
picture old Sam’s face. He’ll be
fuming. Money in it, too.”
Noyse attempted to say some-
thing, but the old man cut him
short.
“I know what you’re think-
ing,” he said. “It’s Tony’s
puppet. Well, he’ll get his cut.
A good one, too. Here’s his
royalty contract that you signed
on his behalf. He’ll do all right.”
He handed Noyse the folded
paper. Noyse took it like a man
in a dream and the old man
bustled off, chuckling.
NOYSE looked at the contract
and then at the massed dis-
play of puppets. He turned to
the efficient-looking woman in
charge of the novelty depart-
ment.
“Miss Murchison,” he said.
“Will you tell me candidly who
these puppets remind you of?”
“Why, Sam Bragger, of
course.”
“Miss Murchison, Tve known
you since the day you joined the
firm, fresh from school. Just to
save me from going crazy, tell
me truly, who do they look
like?”
She gave a quick glance found
the department, then leaned
across the counter and said in a
low voice.
“Well, Sam Bragger has a big
nose and so have the puppets,
and Mr. Adams says they look
just like Sam Bragger ...”
“I know all about that, but
what do you say?”
“I don’t say anything, but the
girls in the department think the
puppets are cute.”
“Yes, and ...”
Miss Murchison a,ave another
quick look around the store.
“They all call ’em ‘Josh,’ ” she
said.


SSSS MM
m
f
I? *■ >•
“Thank you for
your praise . ..
99
“On behalf of my fellow producers,
Lawrence H. Cecil and Myles Wright, and
myself, please accept our warmest thanks
for your appreciation of our Caltex plays,”
says E. Mason Wood, senior producer of the
Macquarie Broadcasting Service. Listening
to “the play” on Sunday nights at eight has
become a “must” with more than a million
Australians who regularly enjoy the world’s
outstanding plays presented by the country’s
foremost dramatic artists in
THE
CALTEX
THEATRE
Produced by
THE MACQUARIE
BROADCASTING SERVICE
and broadcast over 34 stations throughout the
Common Wealth.
THE FACE OF DESPAIR
By KYLIE TENNANT
I . A HEN the waters of the
\ X ] first flood went down,
VV the town of Garrawong
emerged with a reputa-
tion for heroism. “Brave but
encircled Garrawong holds out,”
a city paper announced, and a
haze of selfconscious sacrifice
like a spiritual rainbow shone
over everyone.
Women who would have used
harsh words if a husband came
home late to tea were cooking for
thirty on a spirit-stove with the
greatest cheerfulness. Families
who made a fuss when a guest
stayed for the weekend walked
unceremoniously across the
bodies of complete strangers
lying in rows on their upper
landing. The most popular men
in the town were the policemen
who in an army duck worked
night and day evacuating grate-
ful families.
When they could safely des-
cend into the mud the residents
swapped anecdotes and photo-
graphs while comparing the
height of the watermarks on
their wallpaper. There was a
feeling abroad that Garrawong
had defeated the flood single-
handed.
The water receded only gradu-
ally. It lurked in backwaters and
billabongs that had not been full
since the great flood of ’ninety-
eight. Below Paddy’s Bend there
was a new channel which led
to lawsuits and trouble over
fences. As the river retreated
it scattered its loot—tree-trunks,
haystacks, buggy-wheels, the
carcasses of sheep. Neighbors
returned any chattels found in
their backyards, if they were
recognisable. The librarian
moved down the thousands of
books which had been moved
up so hastily that they had to
be catalogued all over again.
Strong men grunted and cursed
as they strove to shift a side-
board or bed which one small
housewife in a panic had been
able to drag up all by herself.
The farmers, ruined as usual,
were trying to find corrugated-
iron, barbed-wire, food for the
survivor pigs. Somehow they
felt they should live up to the
high valor of the flood and hang
on until the next cheque came
in. Men who had put off paint-
ing the house decided they must
do something about it. Wives
demanded new covers and cur-
tains. Furniture was hosed
down ; the awful decayed smell
lessened a little. The piles of
blackened and stinking water-
hyacinth were carted away.
Where silt had formed a deep
inlay into the woodwork owners
went over the carving with a
clothesbrush. Refrigerators and
radios were repaired. “Look!”
the town seemed to say. “We’ve
come through.” And the editor
of the local paper closed his
columns to any letter which
mentioned silt, afforestation or
erosion.
Presently, mile after mile un-
folded the heart-lifting green of
young oats, potatoes, lucerne.
The river, like a silver snake,
wriggled back into its bed, coiling
along deep below the level leaf-
age, so that strangers asked
“But where is the river?” It
twisted humbly past the town’s
backyards, collecting the old tins
. and bottles as usual, forgotten
in its deep soil ditch.
The new paint was shining on
the houses ; most of the elderly
people had recovered from their
lumbago; the bronchitis epi-
demic was over ; and then, out
of all reason, the rain began
again. The silver snake down
below swelled, took on a new
mottled brown skin. In the
evenings there were people walk-
ing along the path just look-
ing at the river. They said very
little. When the rain stopped
even the trees seemed to sigh
with relief ; but the clerks in the
Court House were already taking
their records away in trucks.
THEN the river was racing,
powerful, hideous. It was
over the banks below South Gar-
rawong ; it had crept round and
taken the town in the rear, cut-
ting the main road so that the
buses roared through a foot of.
water; it came slowly down the
gutters of the back-streets leaving
the embankments still reassur-
ingly dry, but joining puddle to
puddle like a miser making an
investment. The librarians at
the city library set about strip-
ping the shelves of books again
and cursed small ladylike curses.
“It won’t come any higher,”
old Dr. Riley announced, when
his daughter wanted to move
the furniture upstairs. He
was always gruff and positive,
and, before he retired, the more
a patient failed to respond to
treatment, the more positive Dr.
Riley became. “I know what
I’m talking about. Leave the
furniture alone.”
At four o’clock the clouds
parted, the sun shone over a
landscape of mauve water with
the delicate pale green of willows
smudging the distance. Here and
there what might otherwise have
been a rather flat and monotonous
expanse was lifted by a pleasing
touch of scarlet where a house-
roof just showed above the
waves. In the older part of the
town cars were being loaded,
revved up and raced to higher
ground in the new town or the
heights towards the jail. The
railway-station was an island
connected to the mainland by an
overhead bridge. And the water
began to pour over Dr. Riley’s
doorstep. In half an hour it
was a foot deep in the front hall.
“Look at it!” his daughter
shouted—she was usually a meek
and forbearing woman. “Not a
thing saved.” And she spoke of
her father in wrath and bitterness.
The doctor took no notice.
He waded into his study and
tucked under one arm a supply
of cigars, under the other the
stuffed trout in its glass case, a
trout he had caught in Lake
Neish on his trip home to Ire-
land.
“They say that the dam may
break.” His daughter spoke as
though this were a judgment on
her father.
“Let it,” he grunted, and went
upstairs to bed, where he stayed,
smoking philosophically.
Down the main road came
sailing a traffic of great clumps
of water-hyacinth. They swirled
straight along the middle of the
road, importantly passing and
repassing each other. The road
was now navigable, and the cur-
rent running strong. The police
began to go round in their duck
rescuing the inhabitants ; but a
strong resistance-movement was
developing. They refused to be
rescued. They had had one flood
—that was enough.
“But there’s a crack in the
wall of the dam,” the constable
in charge of the duck explained.
“You could have twenty feet
of water down on top of you.”
“If the dam’s going to bust,”
one householder argued, “it ain't
much use ferryin’ us up to the
new town. If the dam goes that’ll
go too.”
“You get in this boat,” his
preserver snarled. “Come on,
now.”
Nobody went to bed. In the
minds of the townspeople was a
picture of a huge grey wall
slowly crumbling outwards over
the treetops ; but they all had
a dumb, mutinous feeling that
just by staying put they were
defying the water to do its worst.
They wouldn’t shift, no, they
wouldn’t shift, even though they
might be swept away. The rain
came down as though it were
being bailed out of the clouds
in large celestial buckets ; and
it looked as though the darkness
and the rain were to be the
death-watch of Garrawong. But
in the face of this renewed
malice there was no heroism,
only a grim indignation and a
kind of dignity.
AT the little private maternity
home Annabelle, who did
all the cooking and housekeeping
for Nurse Aarons, went down
into the kitchen to make a cup
of tea.
“Never again,” Nurse was say-
ing. “All these years and the
stairs so bad, up and down those
stairs keeping the place open,
taking up trays and sometimes
bad cases, little babies—oh dear!
—and their mothers. And now
we’ve had all the walls repapered
and new linoleum —no, Anna-
belle, I can’t stand it. I can’t
bear to think of it. The mud
—it’s too much work with my
rheumatism. I’ll shut the place.
I can’t start again, I won’t.
No, not again.”
Meanwhile she continued to
tend four mothers and four
newly-born babies while Anna-
belle, splashing about in a pair
of fishermen’s waterproof boots,
cooked all she could until the
water poured over the stove-top.
When Nurse’s two brothers
came to rescue her in a rowing-
boat, they opened the front door,
and the grandfather clock floated
out to meet them like a large
and elaborate coffin. They
pushed the clock inside again,
shut the door and went round the
back. Nurse and Annabelle
leaned over the balcony rail like
two princesses in a tower.
“No, indeed, Charlie,” Nurse
said. “I couldn’t leave.”
“But the dam may go.”
“I can’t help that. I’m not re-
sponsible for the dam. Last
time,” Nurse said darkly, “that
linen bedspread floated away
and when I went to a bridge-
party at Mrs. Smith’s there it
was as large as life made into a
tablecloth and serviettes. She
said it was buried in the mud
and not claimed.”
The police came and took the
patients off. The police did not
seem to realise that they were
now identified with the flood,
were part of it, and shared the
feelings it aroused. One of them
stood to lift down the patients
and lower them while he
balanced in the rocking boat. He
tried to make one lie down in
the bottom of the boat. The
woman glared at him. “How
perfectly ridiculous!” she said
shortly. “The idea!” She sat
up straight and continued to
snort and mutter.
None of the patients was
pleased about being rescued.
They wanted to stay with Nurse.
The last to descend, wrapped
in a fur coat curiously distended,
really threw the young constable
into a state of panic.
“Be careful, madam,” he
urged. “Be very careful.”
From the front of the fur coat
emerged the striving head of
Nurse’s cat. He, too, hated to be
rescued.
1 N the old manse at the end of
* River Road the wife of Harry
Scott, the town’s solicitor, was
preparing for the siege. They
had bought this dilapidated
house because Peg was an artist
and could see its possibilities.
They had done all the repairs
themselves, and though there
were still part of the banisters
flapping like a rag and a new
set of leaks after every shower
the Scotts were proud of their
home. Peg had moved up to
the attics all the antique bits of
furniture picked up cheap at
sales, the walnut writing-desk,
the carved bed, the big mirror
from the mantelpiece in the
front room. She was plump and
jolly and efficient; her husband
and small daughter were safe
with her upstairs playing rummy
and eating sardines. They had
plenty of food.
“I want you to remember
everything about this, Winnie,”
Peg ordered. “You’ll be able to
tell your grandchildren. Dad
used to tell me how in ’ninety-
eight the boat he was in was
nearly shipwrecked in the awning
over the chemist’s shop.”
From farther up River Road
came a raucous chant of boat-
men outside the house of a lady
of no reputation. “Come on,
Rosie,” they yelled. “There’s
eight of us out here waiting for
you, Rosie.” But Rosie had
already left.
“Mummy,” Winnie observed
sedately, “if the dam breaks I
mightn’t have any grandchil-
dren.”
“There! ” Peg raised her eye-
brows dramatically at her hus-
band. “She takes after you.
Always looking on the bright
side.”
Their neighbor had seen the
patrol-boat approaching. “Wait
till I open the gate for you,” he
cried hospitably; then gave a
startled howl as he stepped into
deep water. Peg hoped Winnie
would not remember some of the
things he was saying.
The boat approached the
Scotts’ lamplit window. Its own
quite dazzling light shone over
the dark water and disturbed
the ducks sleeping in the wistaria
on top of the pergola. The ducks
had had a wonderful time eating
all kinds of foods, frogs, insects
and pieces of soaked pumpkin.
Perhaps, Peg thought, it would
be too fantastic to paint a pic-
ture entitled “Ducks and Wis-
taria.” With those orange
pumpkins floating in the fore-
ground ; the peculiar mauve
shade of the water when the sun-
light had struck it.. .but, no, no
one would believe it.
“Come on, all out,” a dark
figure ordered.
“Oh,” Peg groaned with
disappointment, “they can t
make us go.” ~
“I think we had better, dear.
Harry Scott apologised. “Alter
(Continued on page 31)


o
'they're with you
ad the way
With tops in flying experience, the utmost
in travel comfort and service, and the finest
of food. Yes, Canadian Pacific service is
world renowned, and rightly so. You fly
relaxed arrive refreshed, when you go
Canadian Pacific style.
Travel this comfort way on your next
overseas trip.
SYDNEY . AUCKLAND . FIJI
HONOLULU • VANCOUVER
En route to UNITED STATES and U.K.
(Free stopovers at Fiji 13 hours;
and Honolulu —32 hours.)
fj
Canadian Pacific Railway Company or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents) at 2J/7 George
St., Sydney, and 59 William St., Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency will be glad to
offer you full information.
jWMguiJUut (PftciMf
"Wings of the World’s Greatest Travel System”
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited—lncorporated in Canada.
Australian Historical Sketches
WHITE AUSTRALIA
IS BORN
B y M. H. ELLIS
EVEN from the first Gover-
nor Phillip did not regard
the site of Sydney as an
ideal spot on which to set
down 1000 people, mostly cap-
tive, on the furthermost edge of
an uncivilised continent.
“I had little time to look round
me,” he wrote, “for my instruc-
tions particularly pointed out
that I was not to delay disem-
barking the people, with a view
to searching for a better situa-
tion than Botany Bay. I was
obliged to look farther, but I
did not think myself at liberty
to continue my research after I
had seen Sydney Cove.”
He added that had he seen
the country at the head of the
Harbor he “might have been in-
duced to have made the settle-
ment there.” But this piece of
land he did not view till the
obvious failure of agriculture on
the coast drove him inland three
months after he landed. Then
he found, 16 miles from Sydney,
the hill facing the sun which he
called Rose Hill, after Sir
George Rose, a functionary now
forgotten.
The Governor was at once
satisfied of the fertility of the
soil there, but the heads wagged
when it was suggested moving
settlement inland. The general
opinion was that “such a situa-
tion could not be healthy.” In-
deed, it was only when he him-
self had examined the country
for several miles round that he
was satisfied “there was a good
circulation of air,” and was pre-
pared to take the risk.
In November, 1788, he went
up the Harbor to the new
Canaan, for, said he, it is there
that “I propose employing the
convicts in agriculture, and in
the neighborhood of which I
proposed fixing the first settlers
who might be sent out.”
At the furthermost western tip
of the Harbor, as he had dis-
covered, was “a creek which at
half-flood has water for large
boats to three miles up,” and,
one mile higher up, “the water
was fresh and the soil good.”
On this creek he built a little
stockade, the first inland build-
ing on the continent, designed to
hold a few soldiers, who became
fewer as it was discovered how
tame the local natives were.
The land around was good,
right up the sun-drenched hill
which sloped down to the creek ;
but it needed clearing, for even
if the trees were 30ft. to 50ft.
apart the roots had spread out
to form a sort of mat in places.
Almost at once Mr. Dodd, an
“industrious man” who was the
Governor’s servant, was sent out
to the new settlement with 100
convicts, who began to labor in
planting and sowing, putting up
a granary, building a hut for
the Governor on the upper slope
of Rose Hill.
It was no easy task. There
was no animal traction: it wqs
not till seven years or more later
that there was a plough in use
in the colony (John Mac-
arthur’s), and inhabitants turned
out —much as the western in-
habitants of Queensland turned
out in 1908 to see the first motor-
cars there —to watch half a
dozen weary Indian bullocks for
the first time in Australian his-
tory hauling a log on wheels.
The only weapons the pioneers
had with which to fight the
wilderness were axes and hoes,
and shovels which went to pieces
in no time because they were
universally used as frying-pans.
But the seed was sown somehow.
The trees were cut down 3ft.
or 4ft. from the ground. The
branches and upper boles were
fired and burnt to ash to ferti-
lise the soil; the land was hoed
or scuffled over with the hoe at
the rate of 16 rods per convict
per day. The wheat or the maize
was put in and hastened to
cropping with a prayer for rain.
The crops of the first year
were good, but after that a fact
of nature began to be very
apparent, and to be commented
on even in the most polite and
elegant correspondence: What-
ever else Australia possessed,
there was no manure. Surgeon
Harris dwells on it in his letters ;
so does Captain Hill. “All the
stock that is in the colony” was
not enough for an English farm
of £3O annual value ; just a few
odd ewes and wethers and pigs,
only a handful of chickens.
Ergo, no fertiliser. So that the
land which produced 12 bushels
at the first try yielded only six
at the second and perhaps noth-
ing at all at the third.
But for all this, they hung on
to the task, and by the end of
1789 they had respectable crops
coming on, and the Governor
decided that the time had come
to introduce a policy of free-
land settlement.
For the Adam of the Aus-
tralian race of selectors he chose
Mr. James Ruse —or Ruce, as
his name is spelt in the list of
convicts with the First Fleet.
Mr. Ruse has received the credit
of having “sown the first
grain” ; there is no evidence of
it, but he certainly had the credit
of being a real pioneer.
He was a farm-worker like so
many early-settlers, voluntary or
otherwise ; and though, as his
epitaph relates, his “mother
rered him tenderly” and “with
him took much pains,” that did
not prevent his being walled up
in a dock at Bodmin Assizes in
August, 1782, and being sen-
tenced to seven years’ transpor-
tation, most of which he spent
in the Dunkirk prison-hulk at
Plymouth.
Scooped into a transport in
the First Fleet, he duly reached
Australia, and, if his evidence
given in a court case in 1827
can be believed, he began to
establish his reputation as a
pioneer the moment he landed.
+ +
Lieutenant George Johnston,
of the Marines, has always re-
ceived credit for being the first
white man to set foot on the
site of Sydney, but Mr. Ruse
claimed that he was, since he had
carried Lieutenant Johnston
ashore.
Later Mr. Ruse became one of
the first of the convicts whose
sentences expired in the colony
—in August, 1789. Governor
Phillip promptly permitted him
to settle, in December of that
year, on an uncleared piece of
land on the Sydney side of Rose
Hill, with “an assurance that if
he would cultivate it, it should
not be taken from him.” He
was given help to fell timber,
and thus began his farming, and
luckily we have his own story,
told in 1790, of that little piece
of epic pioneering:
“I was bred a husbandman,
near Launceston, in Cornwall.
I cleared my land as well as I
could with the help afforded me.
The exact limit of what ground
I am to have I do not yet know ;
but a certain direction has been
pointed out to me, in which I
may proceed as fast as I can
cultivate. I have now an acre
and a half in Bearded wheat.
half an acre in maize and a small
kitchen garden.
“On my wheat land I sowed
three bushels of seed, the pro-
duce of this country, broadcast.
I expect to reap about 12 or 13
bushels. I know nothing of the
cultivation of maize, and cannot,
therefore, guess so well at what
I am likely to gather. I sowed
part of my wheat in May and
part in June. That sown in May
has thriven best.
“My maize I planted at the
latter end of August and the be-
ginning of September. My land
I prepared thus: Having burnt
the fallen timber off the ground,
I dug-in ashes and then hoed it
up, never doing more than eight,
or perhaps nine, rods in a day,
by which means it was not like
the Government farm, just
scratched over, but properly
done; then I clod-moulded it,
and dug-in the grass and weeds
—this, I think, must be equal
to ploughing.
“I then let it lie as long as I
could, exposed to air and sun ;
and just before I sowed my seed
I turned it all up afresh. When
I shall have reaped my crop I
propose to hoe it again and
harrow it fine, and then sow it
with turnip-seed, which will mel-
low, and prepare it for next year.
My straw I propose to bury in
pits and throw it in with every-
thing that I think will rot and
turn to manure.”
Obviously, few small farmers
of 1952 could teach Ruse any-
thing.
He had no one to help him
after the first few months but
his wife, Elizabeth Perry, whom
he married in the country. Only
two years after he had been
placed on the land Phillip was
sufficiently impressed with what
he had done to make him a
grant of the 30 acres under the
name of Experiment Farm, the
country’s first private free hold-
ing.
He lived on it only a year or
so, then became one of the
first two pioneers of the Hawkes-
bury. Why he sold his original
grant no man knows. Perhaps
because of his neighbors.
If some young scholar should
ever be given a fellowship to
study the origins of the Aus-
tralian penchant for souveniring,
which has made us famous the
world over, he will probably find
the cradle of the art at Old Ex-
periment Farm, where, while his
crops were ripening, Mr. Ruse
sat up night after night, blunder-
buss in hand, waiting to welcome
a stream of hardy robbers.
His was a lonely habitation
when he first went out there ;
but a year afterwards Captain
Watkin Tench, of the Marines,
became almost shy upon contact
with the unaccustomed civilisa-
tion which he found in Rose
Hill. From the summit he
looked down upon 200 acres of
cleared land, white with ghostly
stumps —even 40 years later
wayfarers used to pause by Mr.
D’Arcy Wentworth’s Homebush
Estate to view the only stumped
land round Sydney.
Over 50 acres of Government
land in wheat and barley in the
captain’s sight showed promise of
yielding 400 bushels if the rob-
bers and the blacks and the
drought would permit. Though
there was not a cow or a sheep
on the place, they had fenced off
two 20-acre paddocks to hold
any that might come along. And
down the hillside, as he removed
his eye from the “grand and
capacious view” of a “beautiful
diversity of hill and dale which
might be reckoned pretty in any
country,” the captain beheld not
only an apple-tree, with fruit
upon it already the size of wal-
nuts, but the main street of the
new town of Parramatta (not so
named till June, 1791) already
begun—a mile long, 200 ft. wide
—indeed of such breadth as
“will make Pall Mall and Port-
land Place hide their diminished
heads.”
No fewer than 32 houses, each
24ft. by 12ft., divided into two
rooms, with a fireplace and a
brick chimney, lined the street
and made the 12 or 14 inhabi-
tants of each of them proud.
A structure of lath and
plaster 44ft. long and 16ft. wide
now served to house the Gover-
nor on the Hill. There was a
new brick storehouse, for Mr.
Becket was turning out 52,000
rich red bricks a week—far
better than the bricks the State
Government is making in the
district in 1952.
There was a lOOft.-long store-
house “covered with tiles.” A
barrack was being built 150 yd.
from the landing-stage—there
Was yet no road to Sydney.
There was a miserable hospital,
but little sickness. A baker,
blacksmiths, saw-pits functioned.
A drought lent the place a
homely Australian air.
Looking round with satisfac-
tion, Captain Tench gave vent
to what seems to have been the
first homily, too little known, on
the future of White Australia:
The allotted task is still per-
formed even with the present
reduced subsistence [all were on
half-rations]. The blacksmith
sweats at the sultry forge. The
sawyer labors pent up in his pit;
the herdsman turns up the sterile
soil. Shall I again hear arguments
multiplied to violate truth and
insult humanity? Shall I be told
that the sufferings of the wretched
Africans are indispensable for the
culture of the sugar colonies; that
white men are incapable of sus-
taining the heat of the climate
(i.e., one cooler than this)?
All round the busy clangor
of embryo Parramatta —that
“place of eels,” human and
otherwise loudly answered
“No.” The age of the working
white colonists had begun in the
Antipodes,
Some of them were working
in iron-spiked collars through
having done a little overtime
given to pilfering. Some were
not working because the night
before they had filled them-
selves up with green corn in the
fields and were suffering from
bloat like cows. And some who
had visited Mr. Ruse in the
night were busy picking pebbles
out of their anatomies.


10D
YEARS
1852
m
1952
The dictates of elegance
and fashion have always
beautiful designs of Lavina
Watches treasured by
generations of discrimin-
lAi/im
WATCHES
been reflected in the
Jewelled
M- as ferp!eceS
LW26.61
PEARL
ASSDRANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
*
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
AND PERTH
SPORTING NOTIONS
This year’s AJ.C. Derby, won
by Deep River from Plywood
and Prince Dakhil, was distinc-
tive from many of its predeces-
sors mainly because it was the
first Australian classic won by
American owners and in their
presence. The winner is a
brother of Australia’s No. 1 per-
former, Delta ; is trained by lead-
ing mentor Maurice McCarten
and was ridden by premier
Sydney horseman Neville Sell-
wood.
Thus Deep River exploded a
popular theory that full-brothers
rarely reach top-class in per-
formance. In paying 6000gns.
for the colt as a yearling the
American owners, Mr. and Mrs.
J. Deßiois Wack (through blood-
stock agents Wright, Stephenson
and Co.), were fully rewarded:
their share of the Derby prize-
money was £8259. And that, of
course, was on top of two-year-
old winnings.
Deep River is the most costly
youngster ever to win the Blue
Riband. Next year he will race
in the U.S. He will be rated
there as a four-year-old as from
January 1, when, as in England,
the racing season starts, and
therefore he will begin at some
disadvantage compared with
other horses in the U.S. But he
will be racing for big stakes, and
meanwhile there is the V-RC.
Derby and the Melbourne Cup
to have a shot at, and he is
popular for both.
• • •
Mention of brothers and the
American angle to it reminds
that Sydney performer Canute,
a brother to Shannon, has been
in America for some time.
Shannon won a lot of money
there, and is expected to have
a successful stud career. Canute,
who has won one minor event,
preceded Deep River into the
Randwick salering last year and
brought 5200gns. That’s just the
luck of the game. Opening bid
for both Deep River and Canute
was 3000gns.
To Maurice McCarten must
go full credit for having Deep
River trained to the minute to
win the most coveted three-year-
old race in the Southern Hemis-
phere. Sellwood rode a grand
race.
• • • •
No. 13 has been shunned by
more than one owner and
trainer, but others like the devil’s
number. A Sydney suburban
mentor a few seasons ago
arranged with another trainer to
change 13 ticket, while a
prominent owner won’t race his
horse if race-date is the 13th.
However, 13 is a lucky number
with the Burleighs, Sol and Vic,
who race High Law, AJ.C.
Epsom winner. Starting favorite.
High Law beat Sir Gene and
Oversight. High Law has now
won successive races with that
saddlecloth, Tattersall’s Tram-
way Handicap and the Epsom.
High Law’s performance was
full of merit, but the beaten
early co - favorite, Oversight
(third), was perhaps the unlucky
runner of the big mile. As soon
as rain came and the track
started to get heavy the ringmen
made a set against Oversight, as
it is known he favors firm going
and rarely runs well on a soft
track. Also, he had 9st. to carry.
His price eased from 7’s to 16’s,
but he came from last —a meri-
torious effort and one which
deserved a better fate. Trainer
Frank Dalton had some com-
pensation when Militant won the
Kensington Handicap.
Owner-breeder M. V. Point
rejected an offer of 225gns. for
First Chapter when that colt was
paraded in the Randwick sale-
ring as a yearling in April last.
It must have been Point’s lucky
day, because the stake for First
Chapter’s Breeders’ Plate was
£1487, and the breeder should
win more races with the son of
Precotant (Fr.) and Royal
Inheritance.
First Chapter staged a brilliant
performance, coming from rear
of the field. Bob Stuart, trainer
of the colt, has been with Point
since he broke into the racing
game, but he has held a training
licence for the brief period of
only two years. First Chapter
hadn’t shown any flash track-
work, and had been beaten into
third-place in a Randwick
barrier-trial, but jockey Arthur
Ward got off Naval Victory,
' whom he also rode in a trial, and
took the mount on First Chapter,
though the latter was a 66-to-l
shot. Naval Victory was second,
with Apple Jack third.
There is plenty of French
blood in First Chapter’s make-
up. His sire, Precotant (Fr.), was
bought by Point from Marcel de
Boussac, one of the most noted
thoroughbred-breeders in the
world. Precotant, a good stayer,
won 10 races in France over
distances from 8£ furlongs to
Im. 7 furs. He’s a grandson of
Derby winner Blenheim, sire of
Mahmoud (Derby/ and a good
sire in the U.S.),and Donatello 11,
sire of noted . stayer Alycidon.
Royal Inheritance, dam of First
Chapter, is a daughter of
Harinero (imp.) from Princess
Rose (imp.), a high-class French
stayer by Rose Prince.
• • • •
Hydrogen’s owner E. R.
Williams arrived back in Sydney
from a four months’ overseas
tour in time to see Dalray beat
his four-year-old in the AJ.C.
Colin Stephen Stakes, but he
gave credit to the victor. “Dalray
was just too good. Darby
Munro rode a masterly race ; but
the horse was no match for the
New Zealander,” said the owner,
who, however, has high hopes of
Hydrogen winning this year’s
Melbourne Cup. Other owners
also are casting covetous eyes in
that direction.
Before racing began at Rand-
wick and Flemington last Satur-
day Victorian stayer Morse
Code, who fell in last year’s
Melbourne Cup, was favorite
for this year’s contest, and
despite his defeat into third place
* n tbe Flemington Turnbull
Stakes he still is the popular
candidate. There is about a
m ° nth to go before the two-
n ? ller ’ and Morse Code will be
cherry-ripe by that time.
....
Aldershot won the Turnbull
bta J e , s from Bronton, and Morse
, r pde s effort was quite sound.
. e B° in S was holding, so the
and a half may not have
“^ en a real staying test. Alder-
who will be ridden in the
Cups b Y Sydney jockey Jack
Thompson, has 8.5 at Caulfield
and 8.1 in the £14,000 Mel-
bourne Cup, which also carries
a £550 trophy. Deep River, fol-
lowing his brilliant A.J.C. Derby
success, has come right into the
Melbourne Cup spotlight. He
was weighted at 7.5, but has
gone up one pound to 7.6
“Yes? Well, YOU could crawl through the hoop
without touching the sides!''
weight-for-age; an automatic
adjustment following the classic
success.
Best of Melbourne’s three-
year-olds are certain to find the
going tough in the Victoria
Derby, with Deep River and one
or two others from Sydney to
contend with, but Staravon im-
proved his classic prospects by a
stylish victory in the V.R.C.
October Handicap at Fleming-
ton. He is a son of 1944 Mel-
bourne Cup winner Sirius and
Savon, who is by Devonshire
(imp.) from Shy by Beau Pere
(imp.), sire of many stayers.
Three-year-olds that followed
Staravon home would appear to
have little chance of turning the
tables on him in the V.R.C.
classic.
• • • •
Chez Paree, well-fancied and
easy winner of the fillies’ divi-
sion of the Flemington Mari-
byrnong Trial, is a daughter of
Hyperion stallion Empyrean
(imp.), whose progeny are now
in their second year only. Vic-
tory Belle, dam of the filly, -is a
Law Maker (imp.) mare from
Belle Gallante (a speedy race
mare) by Cyklon (imp.).
Victorian studmaster A. G.
Hunter bred Nealing, surprise
winner of the colts’ division of
the Maribyrnong Trial. This
youngster is raced in partnership
by E. Ewert and trainer W.
McKay, and is a son of
Neapolitan (imp.) and Mei Ling,
who was got by Manitoba (imp.)
from former Sydney race mare
Black Duchess by Magpie (imp.).
Both he and Chez Paree will
be fully tested by Sydney’s best
two-year-olds at Flemington
early in November.
The 5000 Caulfield Guineas
will be the highlight of this
Saturday’s V.A.T.C. carnival.
Few 3-year-olds have won the
AJ.C. Derby-Guineas double,
because most winners of the
mile-and-a-half Randwick classic
skip the Caulfield mile for the
Victoria Derby. Last winner of
both events was Nuffield, in
1938. Earlier winners of the
double included Theo, Ammon
Ra and Heroic. A.J.C. Derby
winners have been beaten in the
Guineas, while winners of the
latter include minor placegetters
at Randwick. Sydney’s hkely
representatives at Caulfield this
Saturday include Suncup an
Blond Val. The former cou
make it interesting.
....
Delta won the A.J.C. Metro-
politan and the Melbourne Cup
last spring, but it has proved an
elusive double down the years.
One has to turn back the pages
to 1867 to find another winner
of both races. He was Tim
Whiffler. Mooltan in 1907 and
Kennaquhair in 1918 both ran
second in the Melbourne Cup
after scoring in the Metrop.,
while Poseidon (1906) and
Nightmarch (1929) both finished
second in the Metrop., then won
the Cup. Nightmarch also won
the AJ.C. Epsom that year.
Midweek highlight today
(Wednesday) at the AJ.C. spring
carnival is the w.-f.-a. Craven
Plate, U miles. A keen race is
expected, though the field, by
comparison with former con-
tests, is moderate. It is doubtful
whether there ever will be a
finish as exciting as that of 1918,
when one of the best fields to
line-up at the barrier in the his-
tory of this Plate finished in the
following order: Cetigne (A.
Wood), 1 ; Wolaroi (W. H. Mc-
Lachlan), 2 ; Estland (D. O’Con-
nor), 3 ; Desert Gold (J. O’Shea),
4; Cagou (R. Lewis), 5 ; Prince
Viridis (C. Barden), 6. Desert
Gold, at 5-to-2-on, was a costly
failure. Cetigne started at 12’s,
and was ridden one of the
cleverest races associated with
this event. Wood waited for a
run on the rails until the final
furlong, and it came in the nick
of time. A blanket would have
covered the first four.
The Randwick Plate is missing
from this year’s fourth day of
the AJ.C. programme, its place
being taken by the Queen’s Cup,
li miles, which has drawn an
attractive entry from most parts
of Australia and N.Z. Best
horses from all age-groups figure
in the nominations, and the Cup
will be the feature event of the
final day. It is a £2OOO race,
with a 9.5 maximum. There is
sure to be keen rivalry among
owners to secure the £lOO Cup
trophy, the gift of her Majesty
the Queen.
* * * *
Alleged in cables to have been
at odds-on for their first Test v.
England last Saturday, the tour-
ing Australian Kangaroo Rugby
Leaguers were slaughtered 19-6 ;
at that they didn’t cross Eng-
land’s line once, the points com-
ing from boots by Pidding. The
plain evidence of their Australian
performances was that they’re
probably the poorest team ever
to go on tour. As Kangaroos
they’re passable bandicoots.
“Den”: The season just con-
cluded was highly successful for
Sydney Rugby Union. Club
attendances were the best of any
post-war year. The Fijian tour
proved the most successful
financially in the Union’s his-
tory. A record profit of more
than £lO,OOO was secured. Of
this, nearly half goes to the
N.S.W. Union, over £6OO to the
Australian R.U., more than
£2OOO to the Fijian R.U.; the re-
mainder to Queensland R.U. and
country unions in N.S.W.
Australian Soccer is also
hooraying over a tiptop season,
largely helped by Naussies;
gates doubling and the game
spreading. In N.S.W. a Naussie
team, Sydney Austral, bagged
the Southern League premier-
ship, Dutch, and playing its first
season in this competition, it beat
Police 5-1 in last Sunday’s
grand final.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association is
urging three changes; (1) Vic-
torian and N.S.W. members,
combined, to constitute a
majority of the Board of
Control; (2) chairman always to
come from one or other of these
two States (the present chairman
comes from S.A.); (3) both
States always to have a represen-
tative each among the Australian
selectors. The idea may be that
if you ask big you’ll get some-
thing, and the N.S.W. moves to
bring board proceedings into the
open could win.
One thing that will be watched
for is how present board chair-
man Middleton will get on with
the Press. According to Keith
Miller and R. S, Whitington in
their book Straight Hit, he has
hitherto been “abrupt” and
“petulant” to newspapermen;
“most unhelpful” towards
requests for information.
* * * #
Still unbeaten in Australia,
Freddie Dawson duly stopped
Walter Haines in their Sydney
Stadium encounter, pulverising
him to a chopping-piece in round
nine, when ref, Henneberry
mercifully stopped the slaughter.
Wal’s equipment consisted
mainly of a straight left and a
thick skull.


Atlantic Convoy
Ex-wartime-R.A.N., ‘‘Macnell” is J. E. Macdonnell, whose stirring book
“Valiant Occasions,” recording British and Australian courage in the great
encounters on the wartime high seas, has just been published by Constable,
London. Here is one of those Valiant Occasions.
By "MACNELL"
THE oilskin draped over a
bridge voice - pipe swung
wide off as the destroyer
heeled, and came back
clinging to the bulkhead. Peter
William Gretton reached the
limit of his 20-odd feet of
promenade, turned and found
himself climbing up a tilted steel
hill.
With a muttered “Blast!” he
gave it up and hauled himself to
his favorite position behind the
gyro-compass.
Gretton, who could write
commander before his name,
and D.S.O. and two Bars, 0.8. E.
and D.S.C. after it, was 29.
He was also lord of the 36,000
horsepower and 36 knots which
sailed under the name of H.M.
destroyer Duncan. As well, he
was known on his lower-deck
as the “Ace of the Atlantic.”
He did not know this; nor did
he know that as he stood on a
bucking bridge the size of a
kitchen in a Bondi fiat, he was
positioning his ship to screen the
most savage attack on an
Atlantic convoy of his young
and violent life.
Beside him, officer of the
watch, the first-lieutenant stared
miserably over the streaming
fo’c’sle. The first-lieutenant was
seasick; always was when they
left harbor in any sort of a lop,
and would be for the next hour
or so. Then, as had happened so
many convoys before, the
I squeamishness in his stomach
I would settle, the tightness round
I his forehead would relax, and
he would be able to bring all his
experience as a U-boat hunter to
bear on seconding his captain in
protecting the fat, wallowing
convoy to starb’d, and of beating
i the life out of any sub-surface
skulker who tried to get in
amongst it.
Because of his seasickness, and
because sailors are as heartless
in their sobriquets as they are
apt, Number One was known to
: his lower-deck fraternity as the
; “Sea Rover.” But the nickname
| was an affectionate one; the
I Rover was a first-class seaman —
I he wouldn’t have lasted a dog-
I watch with Gretton if he hadn’t
been.
The night was dark and rough.
Duncan screwed and thrashed
through the murk, the white
splather of her passing the only
relief in the blackness which fell
wide and dense on all sides. To
starb’d, just visible, a long line
of dim shapes bulked on the
horizon. To port, distant 10
miles, another convoy drew level
on its way east to Britain.
The wind was blowing across
from it. Suddenly, to the
muffled ears on Duncan’s
whistling bridge reached a sullen
boom. Far away over the tumb-
ling sea a tongue of flame licked
up, then died.
“The b s are starting
early” Gretton began ; the
staccato crackle of the radio-
telephone speaker clearing its
throat shut him up abruptly. A
voice came through—the com-
modore of that other convoy
talking to his escorts.
“There has just been a big
flash astern of me.”
A second or two, while
Duncan’s officers swayed, wait-
ing, then:
“That flash was frigate
Itchen.”
Thus began a new phase in the
pitiless savagery of the Battle of
the Atlantic —send escorts down
first, then slaughter the
merchantmen at will.
Gretton broke the silence.
“They won’t have a chance in
this sea —they’ll freeze as soon
as they hit it.”
No one answered him —they
were thinking of those 90-odd
men the torpedo had left alive,
flung into a pitch-black winter
sea a few miles south of Iceland.
They were thinking, too, of a
periscope with the picture of
their own silhouette swimming
in its watery, cross-wired lens,
Gretton voiced the general
thought.
“Tell the asdic-team, Number
One —an extra-sharp lookout.”
All that menacing night the
convoy stole towards Newfound-
land, alert, apprehensive,
darkened for their lives. But
their time was not yet.
At frigid dawn Duncan
closed-up for action; men fully-
dressed tumbling from their
hammocks and groping their
way into upper-deck air that cut
like a knife. They had slept
fully-dressed in accordance with
Captain’s Standing Orders.
Itchen’s fate supplied the reason
for those orders.
On the bridge, muffled to the
eyes, Gretton peered through
smarting eyes at the gradually-
forming shapes of the convoy.
They had lost their rigid align-
ment of the dusk before; that
meant an hour of shepherding,
signalling and bellowing, cursing
and being cursed at.
The thought made him check,
by eye, his own station. He
spoke to the Rover.
“Bit astern, Number One?”
The Rover had also noticed —
with his bearing-ring.
“Just a bit, sir. I’m bringing
her up now.”
He had bent to the wheelhouse
voice-pipe when a sudden shove
sent him stumbling to the edge
of the grating. A voice roared.
“Full ahead together! Port
twenty! ”
Then, accompaniment to the
urgent grinding of the engine-
room telegraphs, a rapid succes-
sion of strident “Whooos!”
reached them from the destroyer
on their quarter astern.
The Rover regained his
balance in time to see the last
plume of white from her siren
shred to tatters in the whistling
wind, and a whipping flag climb-
ing its halliards in long, jerking
swoops. And to see, from the
rear ship of the port wing—a
tanker —a vast pillar of flame
thrust vehemently at the leaden
sky? U-boat!
They all swayed, slowly and
in unison, to meet her heel as
she listed on the turn. The other
destroyer was speaking Duncan
in stuttering blinks of yellow
light. Gretton heard the signal-
man’s: “Contact bearing two-
seven-o!” and shouted into the
voice-pipe that ran aft to the
quarter-deck:
“Stand-by depth-charges! ”
A destroyer on the hunt is a
cruel hound, 36,000 horse-
power for muscle, omniscient
asdic spears for nose and
pressure-pounding depth-charges
for teeth. Duncan’s hunt-
master crouched over his
bearing-sight and drove her along
the line of bearing flashed by the
other ship, the asdic’s sonic
beams spearing ahead in an
embracing fan of sensitivity.
They searched out, urgently,
right, left, up and down, laid
their fingers on a sub-surface
cigar of steel and rebounded
joyously to the operator’s ears.
Gretton heard the echoing
“peep” on the loudspeaker and
slammed his hand on the
bearing-ring.
“Got the b d!” he
snarled. Then, at once, • his
unseamarilike vehemence was
supplanted by a cold, calculating
efficiency.
Both ships now had contact,
and raced on converging courses
to get above their quarry. Then
the charges were over, splashing,
dropping, down, until water
searching in through little holes
snapped a needle on to a waiting
detonator and exploded each
3001 b. of amatol in a blast that
instantaneously crammed the
ocean’s incompressibility into a
solid, crushing block. On both
sides of the suspended U-boat,
already withstanding hundreds
of tons of water-weight, the
ocean was turned into a giant
hand which closed round her
plates in an iron-hard grip.
Closed, squeezed, crumpled and
spurted water through her com-
partments in almost solid shafts.
Contrary to Hollywood con-
ception, a submarine capable of
withstanding the pressured tons
of mid-ocean is not blown to
slivers by one depth-charge.
But to a hunter as experienced
as Gretton, his asdic-set reports
were an all-seeing eye ; he knew
by the German’s uncertain
changes of course and fluctuat-
ing depths that he had hit him
hard ; and he knew he would
have to belt him harder. He
continued to do so, pattern after
pattern, until the sea astern was
convulsed every few minutes by
bursting eruptions of white
water, the mounds becoming
smaller as the charges searched
deeper.
Gretton had not moved from
the gyro-compass, not even to
glance astern to where, fascinated
by the ship’s discharged fury,
the others watched the ocean
heaving. So he did not see the
brown stain that seeped up and
laid a calm, oily hand on a wide
stretch of water. But he smelt
it —a wholly peculiar, pungent
tang.
Duncan carried a secret
weapon for U-boats —a terrible
machine which had not yet been
used. Now was the time. As
though he had not forgiven him-
self for his earlier outburst,
Gretton now spoke, affectedly
nonchalant, albeit acutely
conscious of the thing he was
about to do.
“All right, Number One. Let
him have it.”
Still maintaining contact,
though now at top speed,
Duncan rushed down on the oil-
stain —not straight for it, but at
the invisible source from which
the current was lifting it surface-
wards. From one of her
torpedo-tubes, the 20001 b. thing
splashed over the side.
Seconds passed. Duncan
thrust on, shaking with speed.
The author’s authority for details of these
R.N. personalities and incidents was in the
destroyer which, because of a new, deadly
weapon it carried, figures as focal point
or leading character in this account of
the typically fierce, war-winning convoy-
ing actions in icy waters.
On the bridge they waited. Then
the sea astern heaved up, fell
back, seemed to gather itself,
then leapt skyward in a roar.
The ship’s stern was punched
bodily from the water, then
crashed down again, a smacking
jolt which shuddered through her
as though she’d run into a sand-
bar.
Gretton had his glasses up.
“My God,” he breathed. The
sea was littered with hundreds of
pieces of woodwork, about the
size of a half-a-crown. The
U-boat had been shattered to
pieces.
But the violence of that blast
had also shaken some of
Duncan’s vital anti-submarine
gear out of action. With the
convoy’s presence known to the
enemy, a signal was wirelessed
back for spare-parts. These were
to be flown out and dropped by
parachute from a Sunderland.
Duncan hauled out of line to
the as she
thought, the U-boat path —and
waited for her plane.
The Sunderland arrived all
right, with a Morse light flash-
ing urgently from her side.
“Submarine surfaced bearing
240 degrees, 10 miles.”
Gretton ordered the signal
acknowledged and grinned:
“Good hunting country,
Number One —sound action.
Port twenty! Two - seven - o
revolutions! ”
The whine of the engine-room
blowers rose to a hungry roar,
sucking icy air deep into her
hot iron throat. She rolled as
she turned, lifted her bow high
and shocked it down on a
mountain of apparent liquidity
which jolted her as though it
were iron-ore. A lather of
spray from the hose of her
bow-wave curved over the flare,
lifted gracefully on the wind
towards the bridge and drove
swift and sharp as needles into
the skin of their faces. It would
be goodnight for a submarine
crew to forsake their hull for
this pitiless sea.
Swiftly through the gathering
dusk she pitched, asdic-set spear-
ing. Gretton was swaying
behind his bearing-sight, his
weather-reddened nose thrust
forward at the horizon like the
bloodhound he was every
nerve taut, everything subjugated
to the intense need to find, track,
destroy.
It was almost dark when the
asdic speaker peeped its
message. The same method of
attack —the fairly fast rush
down, shower of charges from
throwers and rails both sides,
then the tracking and position-
ing for the next run in.
It wasn’t needed this time —
there was still light enough to
see the black shape shoulder its
length up from beneath. No
sooner was the bridge clear
than it vomited a streahi
of sailors who fought to her rails
and plunged with the desperation
of some private knowledge into
the icy sea. Duncan was 100
yards off, shuddering with
speed, when the U-boat cocked
her saw-edged nose in the air—
high so that they saw the stream-
ing sockets of her tubes —and
slid quickly back whence she’d
come.
“Hard-a-port!” Round she
careered, missing the swimmers
by an oar’s length, straight on
over the creaming patch mark-
ing the U-boat’s grave. Hardly
breathing, they waited, braced
for the shock of collision.
The drowning Germans were
yards astern before, shock-free,
they realised the U-boat had
beaten them under.
“Bring her round, Number
One,” Gretton ordered from
where he leaned over the starb’d
wind-break. “I want a couple
of prisoners.”
He wduld be lucky if he got
them. Seconds in ice-water is
enough. Slowly Duncan passed
through the bunch of bodies.
Nearly all were dead, stiffs
floating on their backs. The red
lights on their lifejackets were
burning, shining weirdly into
their frozen faces.
“Horrible,” spoke Number
One.
“Yes,” Gretton answered
quietly, “that’s what lichen’s
boys must have thought.”
With the chief bosun’s mate
reporting two live prisoners
hauled on board, Duncan hurried
on into the night.
One German was a leading-
stoker, who, Duncan’s black-
gang found, was a good hand at
making duff. Two days after he
was picked up, when he was
feeling a bit cockier, he placed
a nicely-browned apple-tart on
the stokers’ mess-table, then
stood back arrogantly with his
arms crossed. On the crust of
the tart, made with left-over
pastry, lay a large swastika.
The stokers laughed at him, in
addition to some unprintable
remarks anent the parentage of
one Adolf ; instead of the abuse
he had patriotically braced him-
self to bear, the submariner heard
grunts of appreciation as the
British stokers hoed into his
swastika.
Next day an Australian-
manned Liberator swept out of
a cloud-bank, circled the convoy,
then headed northwards 'on
offensive patrol. A few minutes
later Gretton was handed a
W/T signal to the effect that she
was attacking a surfaced U-boat
with depth-bombs.
“Would like assistance.”
Duncan, nearest, turned to
help.
Her bridge got the story from
the five Australians she picked
up from their rubber dinghy.
The plane had swept in to
attack, but had been met by a
hail of bullets and cannon-
shells. These weapons were not
secret, but, on Atlantic U-boats,
most unexpected—and effective.
The bomber made a target the
German gunners on their stable
platform couldn’t miss, and she
was badly mauled. But her
bombs were away, and the pilot
had time to see the U-boat turn
turtle before his own craft
skidded into the sea.
Some weeks later it was
officially announced that Ü-
boats in the Atlantic were now
equipped with a.-a. armament.
Two Australian airmen paid the
price for this knowledge.
They were almost out of
U-boat operating range when a
sister-ship to Duncan sighted a
humpbacked target momentarily
surfaced on the horizon. She
increased to 30 knots and swung
towards.
Her engines had just reached
the ordered revolutions when,
probably through bad ship-
handling, another U-boat broke
surface dead ahead! The captain
had time to bellow “Hang on! ”
before the thrust of 36,000 horse-
power hit her full amidships,
pushed her bodily sideways in a
smother of white foam, cut her
almost in two, then sheared
through and over the stricken
remnants, on into clear water.
(j Continued on page 31)


TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
mm
For quality for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 24 6/ Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL X 246
(“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
.ARTHRITIS
. RHEUMATISM
.SCIATICA
can be yours with
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
Doldn has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Doldn Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Arthritis, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuritis, Lumbago and Fibrositis. Prolonged relief is also
given because Doldn contains substances which improve
the supply of
-ST
saH*-
NEUB^
IUH"*® 0
-...*<•*22
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
Z/12IA
blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able to wore
—thanks to the relief from pain Dolcin
Tablets have brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form,
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
DOLGIH
Helpful and informative literature on Dolan
will be sent on request to Dolcin (Australia)
Pty. Ltd.. Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAPAN: CHANGES AND CHANCES
Quaint change in Tokyo, re-
ported by a correspondent there
of Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“Not the least significant of
the changes to be noted ill
Tokyo these days concerns the
hundreds of sedans the Ameri-
can Army uses in the city. These
familiar olive-tan cars are being
painted a self-effacing black, the
better to merge into the traffic
landscape. In Tokyo and the
other large cities the erstwhile
conqueror is trying to make him-
self inconspicuous, like a guest,
though a paying one, who is not
quite sure whether he has over-
stayed his welcome.”
Toilers
In war-bombing Tokyo lost
85 square miles of buildings,
almost half its area. Today it
is booming ; rebuilt and flourish-
ing. “Its recovery from wide-
spread war damage,” says
London “Times’s” correspon-
dent, “is a tribute to Japanese
resilience and assiduity. The
Japanese arc still what they
always were, the hardest work-
ing people in the world.”
Jap Corns
On another aspect of Japan
today a writer in London
“Twentieth Century” comments:
“Even if Japan does not go
Communist, a Nationalist Gov-
ernment in Tokyo which was
resolved to advance Japan’s
power in the world might decide
to ally itself with Russia and
China against the west.”
The writer opposes treating
Jap Corns as of little importance
because they don’t seem very
Strong now. “Who,” he asks,
“regarded the Chinese Com-
munist party very seriously 20
years ago?”
Hence, it would be wrong to
write off the Japanese Com-
munists as of no account'.
Trade Rivals
A London “Economist” corres-
pondent reports that Lancashire
now has plenty of company in
being worried by Jap competi-
tion. Complaints, he says, are
coming in from one British
industry after another, their story
always the same —that the Japs
copy everything they see:
“They copy it and then quote
prices no Western manufacturer
can hope to match. Nor is that
all. They are winning a reputa-
tion for fair trading, prompt
deliveries and superior salesman-
ship. Their goods are equal to
their samples and up to specifica-
tions —which has by no means
always been the case with British
products since the war.”
As a countermeasure to the
copying of patented articles and
other such practices a strong
organisation of British business-
men is suggested. Then, legal
action could be taken in
Japanese courts for infringement
of patents, copyrights, registered
designs, trade-marks and plain
fraud.
Also, action could be taken
against exporters, importers, dis-
tributors and even retailers of
certain classes of Japanese
goods: “Merchants the world
over might be made chary of
selling Japanese reproductions
which they now handle with
impunity,”
Fair Dealing
Japan’s first post-war Ambas-
sador in London, Matsumoto,
has stated at a dinner;
“Naturally, there is much
concern in the United Kingdom
about the effect of Japanese com-
petition. 1 would like to
emphasise that the Japanese
Government are doing all in
their power to prevent unfair
practices.”
And the “Economist” fol-
lowed up its correspondent’s
report with this favorable com-
ment :
“The Government in Tokyo
has taken a number of
steps to prevent the abuse
of foreign designs and copy-
MOSSADIQ
'THE OIL- /
6RATO' 6
TSeSsffl®;
bulwark
ASAINST.
—London “News Chronicle”
IT ALL DEPENDS THE WAY YOU LOOK AT HIM
lien ; her manufacturing produc-
tion has increased substantially,
but exports and imports are
barely half what they were in
1938.”
Moreover, recovery in manu-
facturing is mainly due to the
artificial effects of the Korean
war, and hence is unlikely to be
maintained.
“Most frightening is the low
level of foreign trade. Japan
now depends on overseas supply
for 20 per cent, of her food and
over 60 per cent, of raw
materials for her industry. She
has to feed, clothe, shelter and
provide employment for eight
million more people than before
the war.”
Explosive Factors
South-East Asia is much
talked about as a prospective
rights, and it has on several
occasions expressed its desire to
co-operate with the British
authorities in this respect.
“The Japanese patent office
has been instructed to take up
any complaints made against
Japanese firms for infringement
of trademarks and designs regis-
tered in Japan. It is understood
that once a clear case has been
made out against any Japanese
nationals the Government in
Tokyo will take firm action.”
Also, New York “Herald
Tribune” reports on a foreign-
investment ban enacted by
Japan that it “treats non-
Japanese investors with a liber-
ality exceeding that which some
free-world nations now extend
to one another.”
These and other recent Jap
steps on similar lines the
“Herald Tribune” characterises
as “the actions of a nation that
is willing to play the game and
is confident of her power.”
Hobson’s Choice
“To keep a reliable ally
against the Communist world
the U.S. will have to underwrite
the precarious economy of Japan
almost indefinitely. The only
alternative is to let Japan trade
freely with Communist China.”
Otherwise, writes Riichi Ina-
gaki in a striking report from
Tokyo in London “New States-
man,” the Communists will be
given a good opportunity to
take control of Japan from
within.
A demand for the resumption
of China trade by Japanese busi-
ness circles, he reports, is being
expressed openly since Japan’s
independence. It is particularly
strong in the textile industry,
which, like its Lancashire com-
petitor, is having great difficulty
in finding export markets, and
in the steel industry, which is
feeling the burden of high-cost
American coal and iron-ore.
Millions to Feed
Behind all the moves by
Japanese business lies the feeble
economy of post-war Japan:
“Compared with pre - war,”
says the “New Statesman” report,
“Japan’s territory has been re-
duced by 46 per cent.; she has
lost vital resources such as Man-
churian coal, iron-ore and fish-
ing-grounds in the Sea of
Okhotsk to the north of Sagha-
export market and source of raw
materials for Japan.
But this, says the same report,
appears to be largely wishful-
thinking.
For one thing, the political
situation in S.-E. Asia is
unstable. Most of the nations
are developing their own indus-
tries. This is particularly so
with textiles. Also, many
powerful industrial nations,
like Britain, consider this
part of the world as their
own market. For them, as
well as for Japan, this is a
matter of life or death. Japan
must expect bitter competition
from them:
“These facts indicate that the
Japanese economy, within the
political framework set down by
the San Francisco Treaty, can-
not restore the pre-war standard
of living to the people. Eat it
will be difficult to keep the
Japanese people permanently
satisfied with a living standard
under which they must spend
half their income for their
meagre supplies of food. If it
becomes apparent that the task
of raising the standard is impos-
sible, discontent will certainly
grow into the social and political
unrest the Communists are
looking for.
“In fact, the Communist
menace to Japan comes from
the domestic economy rather
than from Russia or China.”
Persian Stakes
“There is now every proba-
bility that, within the next few
months, the Iron Curtain will be
pushed forward from the
Caucasus to the Persian Gulf.”
That is, the Communists will
have taken over —a view
expressed by Vernon Bartlett in
London “News Chronicle”
which would be endorsed in the
U.S., where (report correspon-
dents in New York “Herald
Tribune”) the danger in Persia
“is now rated ‘desperate’ by the
State Department.” And;
“The problem of dealing effec-
tively with this danger is so
immensely difficult that it has
already split the American Gov-
ernment from top to bottom,
and threatens to cause an open
break on Middle Eastern policy
between this country [U.S.] and
Great Britain.”
Admitting that the British
have perfectly solid ground for
complaint against past American
policy in Persia, the comment is
made that, as things stand, “there
is surely logic in the American
view that it is more important to
keep Persia out of Soviet hands
than to pay off old scores
against Moussadek.”
Similarly, “New York Times”
voices American outlook:
“Winston Churchill said last
year that the loss of Iran to the
Kremlin would be worse than
anything that could happen in
Korea. General Eisenhower,
while he was still with N.A.T.0.,
said that, ‘as far as sheer value
of territory is concerned, there
is no more strategically
important area in the world’
than the stretch that begins at
the Persian Gulf and swings
westward.”
It accepts that “the realisa-
tion has struck home, even


The world’s
first choice
In every part of the world
Swan Pens are first choice
for people who believe in
quality.
Swan Pens are famous
for their wonderful nibs
specially made by
hand by highly-skilled
craftsmen. There is a
nib for every style of
penmanship.
df
MODEL 32
PRICE 57/6
'yeako Ci
sd
THADE MARK
</„
'iiwn
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
52.62.2
Give Devi I Dandruff
the'bnish-flff'
(usPU-
(jUmC
fs
df
mm
wmi
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing —
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down” look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
Makes hair healthy
and handsome
Si'i handier in a tube
Kay Daumit
reparation
LHf/121
Sold at all
Chemists & Stow
in Britain, that the Iranian
oil is of secondary importance.
The really vital thing is to save
Iran from the Communists.”
That represents the basic
American view—save Persia
from the Communists at all costs.
The British view most
commonly noted is expressed
thus by “Yorkshire Post”: “This
danger [the Communist threat]
exists, but it must be coolly
assessed. If we allow ourselves
to be unduly impressed by it we
shall simply be asking the
Persians to levy blackmail on
us. There will be no limit to
the moneys they ask for under
threat of otherwise lapsing into
Communism. The only way to
deal with a blackmailer is to call
his bluff: this is as true in inter-
national affairs as it is among
private persons,”
A British view with some fight
in it is put forward by Lord
Yansittart in London “Daily
Telegraph.” Recalling that when
the oil dispute began he urged
that Britain, while remaining
willing to negotiate, should tell
the Persians that it would protect
not only British lives but British
interests, he adds;
“At worst, and most
improbably, we might have had
to land a few men at Abadan,
but that would have given the
Russians no ground for interfer-
ing in Northern Persia under the
terms of the Treaty of 1921.”
“The Socialist Government
funked, and developments took
the headlong course which any-
one could have foreseen. Now
the Middle East may be lost,
with immeasurable consequences
to the West.”
Instead of now “repeating that
pusillanimity”;
“We [Britain] should be ready
to say bluntly that in the last
resort we will not allow Southern
Persia to be Communised, and
that, if driven, we will use force
to restore order ; and then repeat
‘so come along and negotiate
quickly. This is your last chance
of escaping destruction, national
and individual.’
“Persia and Indonesia are the
key-points of the Middle and
Far East respectively. It is just
as important to defend one as
the other. They are on balance
more important than Burma or
Korea. For years neither we
[Britain] nor the Americans have
had an Eastern policy, and it is
time that we got one, but not
by cash or soft sawder. If we
let the last chance go, by listen-
ing to more cowardice, the free
world will have been the
architect of its own ruin.”
Moussadek, in London “Spec-
tator’s” view, has a present par-
ticularly strong reason for con-
fidence:
“He must be encouraged by
the impressive, and apparently
growing, volume of inquiries by
foreigners about the future
development of Persia s vast,
accessible and much-coveted oil
resources. Mr. Alton Jones and
the other American experts who
have arrived in Persia, Dr.
Schacht, who has also arrived,
and the German technicians with
whom Dr. Hussein Makki has
been in contact in Hamburg,
Count della Zonca, whose Italian
Mediterranean Petroleum Com-
pany continues to seek means of
taking out the two million tons
of oil which it has contracted to
buy -~ al J tbese
ing Afghans an p • ’
have shown mterest in Persian
oll ‘ , , , r .
. ” They look much more like
Ai es round a honey-pot than
vultures round a corpse.
J. Bull in Utopia
Leading U.S. economist
Michael A. Heilperin, in New
York « Herald Tribime » credits
Churchilrs Conservatives with
considerable, though not nearly
adequate, efforts to shock J, Bull
OU |- c f bemusedly following the
m irage of the Socialist’s Welfare
state.
Despite acknowledged achieve-
merds “ a visitor from abroad
dnds something lacking in the
British picture”;
wldel V MVTSf LSI
“ s P“t ° £ v.? ,o
. ma f f c ; Sin?, £
dr ‘ ft ’ - lackin S “ “ ndd , ence - ln
o P?™ lsin ant nl . * .
“Even now the man m the
street doesnt realise how diffi-
cult the position of his country
i®> bow ro ucb abo I ve tb c. ir . means
the British, have been living lor
the P as f Y ears ’ bow § reat a re "
orientation of resources is needed
i* l order to bring into balance
Britain’s foreign accounts,
“These and a score of other
matters are entirely beyond the
daily experience of the average
Englishman ; he does not realise
even yet that the ‘Welfare State’
has failed because it brought the
country to the brink of insol-
vency or, some may say, past
that brink.
“Why the Labor party didn’t
tell him so is obvious ; it is far
less obvious why the Conserva-
tives have failed to bring some
of the ‘facts of life’ to his atten-
tion. These ‘facts of life’ are not
pleasant, to be sure. A ‘return
from Utopia’ is never agreeable
—all the less so when people
fail to realise that ‘Utopia’ really
has been their former address!
It may well be, as some English-
men pessimistically remark, that
only another crisis will bring
unpalatable truths home to the
millions of people who have
r ‘"
«STtW 1
Vl Say,old man, ana\
f you Sure you're v<>Sc j
1 not to carry an J
: r^M
—London “Daily Mail’’
SPLIT PERSONALITY
shown in the past that they ‘can
take it’ when they must.
“The next 12 months may
prove to be a very crucial and
critical period.”
Dragnet Digest
Sam’s Poor Relation. —London
“News Chronicle” writer, on
“trade not aid” as a policy to-
wards the U.S.: “The British
people will not for very much
longer accept or tolerate the
position of the poor relation.
Why should they?”
U.S., Revolution’s Ally. —
Frankness from “U.S. News
and World Report”: “What
you’re seeing in Egypt and Iran
is a revolution, centuries over-
due. U.S. is lining-up on the
side of this revolution, helping
it along.”
J. Bull’s Workers. —Assessed
by “Yorkshire Post”: “In any
list of the factors that make
Britain one of the world’s main
citadels of freedom, the steady
patriotism and commonsense
of the great mass of her workers
would rank very high.”
Janus Twins. On “Wes-
terners who comfortably believe
that the enemy is not Commun-
ism but Russian imperialism,”
“New York Times” comments:
“Either way there is a fallacy,
for Communism and Russian
imperialism are the two heads
of the same Janus.”
Cause and Effect. —From a
London “News Chronicle”
article; “Behind each American
worker there is 2\ times as much
machine horsepower as behind
the British worker. And the
American real income per head
is between 2\ and three times
that of the Briton.”
Permanent German Division.
—“There is,” states “Manchester
Guardian,” “accumulating evid-
ence that the Soviet Government
has now decided to accept as
permanent the present division
of Germany. The fact that it
constantly accuses the Western
Powers of malignantly pursuing
the same end can only be re-
garded as confirmation of this.”
Schuman Plan. —“No one who
has watched the development of
the Schuman Plan into the
European Coal and Steel Com-
munity,” comments London
“News Chronicle,” “can doubt
that a pattern has been set which
brings the federation of Europe
closer to reality. The High
Authority is well named. Within
its own sphere it transcends the
sovereignty of national States in
Europe.”
Intelligent Anticipation.
“With an eye on Egypt,” com-
ments “Manchester Guardian”
editorially, “Dr. Moussadek is
busily putting generals and
brigadiers; on the retired list.”
Towards the Crisis. —Wash-
ington comment in New York
“Herald Tribune”: “The time
when the American atomic lead
will be cancelled out by the
growing Soviet atomic stockpile
is rather rapidly approaching.
Whatever changes are made in
defence planning, the Western
alliance must be ready for this
time, with real strength in being
both in Europe and in this
country. And this time will
almost certainly come before the
end of the [next U.S.] President’s
term.”
Will Make the Bear Growl. —
Cutting-down of the West’s de-
fence programme will, suggests
“Manchester Guardian,” have
one definite effect: “The Soviet
attitude is almost sure to alter
—and not for the better.”
Mrs. Britannia Works. —When
the latest official figures were
compiled married women in
British industry totalled well
over 3,000,000, or 43 per cent,
of all women workers. “The pro-
portion was naturally highest in
the 30-50 age-group, as many
younger women were still un-
married and older women found
if difficult to manage a home as
well as a job. Between 30 and
50, more than three-fifths of
women workers were married ;
between 40 and 44 years old the
proportion was nearly two-
thirds.”
Disarmament Out. The
current Western offer is a plan
limiting to between 1,000,000 and
1.500.000 men each the forces
of America, Russia and China,
and to between 700,000 and
800.000 those of Britain and
France. “This,” London
“Economist” points out, “would
leave the two groups into which
the Big Five are divided as fairly
balanced as could be imagined,
while the Russian proposal for
a one-third slash all round would
merely perpetuate the Com-
munists’ present advantage.” So,
of course, the West’s offer is
rejected.
Lucky India. —Very cheerful
report by a London “Spectator”
correspondent: “Peace within
has been firmly established.
Communists and communal
organisations are on the retreat.
India has evolved a democratic
Constitution which is function-
ing with astonishing smoothness.
It has prepared a realistic five-
year plan of reconstruction
which invites foreign aid. Pro-
duction in every sphere is going
up. The discipline of India’s
army of 300,000 men is
unimpaired.”
Tale of a Tub, etc . —
Recently published figures from
last year’s census show that in
Great Britain 5,436,000, or
37£ per cent., of households had
no fixed bath, and a further
1.087.000, or 1\ per cent., shared
with other households. About
1.114.000, or 8 per cent., of
households had no water-closet,
and a further 2,179,000, or 15 per
cent., shared with others;
810.000, or 6 per cent., had no
piped water-supply in the house,
and 1,639,000, or 11 per cent.,
shared a supply.
Cold-war Wonder. —“It is one
of the minor marvels of the Cold
War,” comments “Washington
Post,” “that the people who live
in the very shadow of Soviet
power —like the Berliners and
Viennese and like the magnificent
Finns, the Greeks and Turks —
are not worried by Soviet sabre-
rattling.”


Birth—life's most
dangerous
experience
Why does the new-born in-
fant face such deadly danger
his first day on earth? Too
many infants still die need-
lessly—or are crippled for life
—because of oxygen starvation
during birth. (Is too free a use
of pain-killing drugs one
cause?) In October Reader’s
Digest, J. D. Ratcliff gives
facts about tiie phenomena of
birth that every prospective
mother should know.
October Reader’s Digest
brings you 31 stimulating
articles of topical yet lasting
interest condensed from the
world’s leading magazines and
best-selling books. Get your
copy today. One shilling and
sixpence at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
NOW! ADD YEARS
TO THE LIFE Of YOOR
NEW RAINWATER
TANKS!
new
Ordering new galvanized
iron tanks for rain-water
storage? Then order a
TECT-A-TANK unit at
the same time! Provides
thin film of protection
for inner walls that
retards corrosion . . .
ensures years of extra life
for your tanks. Does not
harm or affect the water
in any way. Simply
hangs in position. Tube
never needs replacement.
From all plumbers, hard-
ware stores, etc.
Tfade inquiries, tech-
nical information, etc.,
from John Lysaght
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide,
Premantle; also Ly-
saght’s Works Pty.
Ltd., Newcastle.
m
' LYSAGHT >
IP
Developed and manufactured by Lysaght’s Works Pty. Ltd., Newcastle
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.M.: Nelson broadside missed.
... .Leander: Beachgirls failed to
swim the Hellespont J.W.: Some
feeling in “Tjukurita,” not enough
form E.1.F.: Fair if you’re young.
But you really can’t rhyme “foe”
with “boa”... .H.D.: Seems a long
way from anywhere in particular
Public Notice
I, IDLE SVIR. of Czechoslovak nation-
ality, born at Alexandria, Egypt, resident
three years in Australia, now residing at
Gladesville Hotel, Gladesville, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divori
ce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES CHRISTIAN MOLES also
known as CHARLES CHRISTIAN Mc
GREGOR, CHARLES CHRISTIAN LEWIS
and ALLAN GEORGE PLAYFORD for-
merly of Hay—TAKE NOTICE that
SYLVIA JUNE MOLES has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2991 of 1952 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
16th December 1952 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
HALLIDAY, STAINLAY & BOLAND,
Solicitors, Murwillumbah, or their Sydney
Agents. CURTISS, DEZARNAULDS &
BUTTFIELD, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BERNICE PATRICIA BUCKETT late
of C/o T. O. Bernie’s Store The Valley
Brisbane Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that LYLE JOHN BUCKETT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4622 of 1951
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards if you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by Bth December 1952 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
W. A. T. CRAIN, Solicitor, 3 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER CAMPBELL late of
Darlinghurst.—TAKE NOT I C E that
VIOLET CAROLINE SCEALY (falsely
called VIOLET CAROLINE CAMPBELL)
has filed a Petition, No. 2061 of 1952 for
nullity of her marriage on the ground that
at the time of the ceremony of her mar-
riage to yourself you were then still the
husband of VERA ELLIOT If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist day of December
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. FRED A.
& E. S. NEWNHAM, Solicitors, of 28
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA — Matrimonial Causes.
No. 173 of 1952.
TO VIOLET ELLEN WOODS formerly of
43 Cicely Street Leichhardt in the State
of New South Wales Married Woman.—
TAKE NOTICE that your husband CLIP
FORD EDGAR WOODS has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground that you have been guilty
of desertion of the Plaintiff for a con-
tinuous period of three (3) years If you
desire to defend such proceedings you must
file your defence in the Central Office of
the Supreme Court at Perth in the State
of Western Australia within thirty (su;
clear days from the date of this publica-
tion In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders against
you in your absence. Dated this zytn
day of September, 1952.—-G. L BOYL-
SON, Registrar. MAXWELL & LABOR,
Solicitors, of 23 Barrack Street, Perth,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff herein.
• FOR SALE
Brand New McLaren-Brush
55 Kilowatt GENERATING PLANT
This complete new electric plant has not been
unpacked, and is available at a substantial discount
off its original price.
Apply:
LA MODE INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD..
13-43 Victoria Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Illustrated History
of Botany Bay, published by The
Bulletin. —5332.
To buy copy of Bushman and
Buccaneer: Harry Morant: His
’Ventures and Verses, edited by
Frank Fox (“Frank Renar”). —5331.
To buy copy of Lady Louise by
Fitzgerald. —5324.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter and The Bulletin Book of
Humorous Recitations. —5329.
To .buy copy of Season’s Through
by Stuart Maddox Masters. —5330.
To buy books of humorous draw-
ings by Eric Joliffe, also Cornish
Pasty by Oswald Pryor.—s32B.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter. —5327.
Exchange, Singer hand sewing-
machine for gooci gas bath-heater. —
5326.
Exchange, strong new rope ladder,
32ft., for 200- or 300-gallon tank,
near Sydney. —5325.
Words of poem “A Night Wi’
Burns at Yackandandie,” beginning:
’Tis said in all the world’s great span
Be’t het or cold or foul or fair .
Where e’er ye find the trace o’ man
Ye’re bound to find the Scotsman there.
—5333.
Words of poem “The Prerogative
of Piper’s Flat,” beginning:
One evening just at sundown I was sitting
on a rail
When up rode big Tim Brady who had
been to fetch the mail.
—5334.
Information Sought
Names of beetles which are attacking
my furniture, and means of control ?
The two main wood-destroying
insects are Anobium, the common
furniture beetle, and Lyctus, the
powder-post beetle. Lyctus usually
confines itself to the sapwood;
Anobium, whose damage superficially
resembles that of Lyctus, attacks old
pine timbers, and does not discrimi-
nate between the sapwood and true-
wood. Anobium does not attack
non-pine timbers as a rule. Penta-
chlorphenol injected into the flight-
holes should control the pests. Where
there is considerable destruction, re-
placement with, a non-susceptible
timber or composition-board is advis-
able.
* * * *
Is it correct, as I have been told,
that eight U.S. Presidents were
British-born ? Does not the American
Constitution preclude those not born
in U.S.A. becoming President?
Every American President has been
born in the U.S.A. The Constitution
says: “No person except a natural-
born citizen, or a citizen of the
United States at the time of the
adoption of the Constitution, shall
be eligible to the office of President
” (He must also be at least 35
and have resided 14 years in the
U.S.) Eight Presidents, however,
were born as British subjects (i.e.,
before the Declaration of Indepen-
dence, 1776): Washington, John
Adams, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe,
J. Q. Adams, Jackson and Harrison
(ninth President). The eighth Presi-
dent, Van Buren, was the first Presi-
dent born as an American citizen.
* * * *
„Some particulars of the career of
Sir Isaac Isaacs ?
Born in Melbourne on August 6,
1855, the son of a humble Hebrew
tailor, he became, at 15, a pupil-
teacher with the Victorian Depart-
ment of Education, but left teaching
in 1874 to study law. There followed
a brilliant career at the Bar, with
success also in politics, both State
and Federal. In 1904 he became
Federal Attorney-General, forsaking
politics in 1906 to become a Justice
of the High Court. He was elevated
to the Privy Council in 1921, became
Chief Justice of the High Court
(1930-31) and capped his career by
becoming Australia’s first native-born
Governor-General (1931-36). Knighted
in 1928, he was awarded G.C.M.G.
in 1932 and G.C.B. in 1937. All his
life he was a firm believer in the
extension of Commonwealth powers.
He died on February 11, 1948, at 92.
« * * *
What is the origin of the Australian
blue and red cattle-dogs?
According to the Australian Ency-
clopedia a squatter named Hall, at
Muswellbrook (N.S.W.), imported m
1840 a pair of blue-grey merles
(mottled smooth-haired Scotch dogs),
which he crossed with the dingo. The
result proved very successful, the
progeny had the dingo habit
creeping up behind and biting
(instead of barking and running to
the head, a great fault with the
collie, which was then used as a
cattle-dog). At first they were known
as “HalTs heelers,” then as blue-
heelers.” The pups came red-mottled
or blue-mottled according to the
strain (dingo or merle) which pre-
dominated. Since then the blood of
Dalmatian and kelpie has been
infused into the breed.
Brief Answers
S.N.: There are many so-called
“smoke-cures,” the effect of which
depends largely upon the subject.
Effect of these is to create a distaste
for tobacco. Personal self-will is
necessary C.M.C.: The Social
, Services Consolidation Act provides,
inter alia, that a person who has the
custody, care and control of one or
more children under the age of lb
years shall be entitled to receive
endowment in respect of each sucn
child. The portion of the Act refer-
ring to Child Endowment does not
provide for any means "test....
L.F.R.: It’s meant to be the Com-
monwealth of Australia Blue Ensign,
but the large white star directly
beneath the thick vertical red bar ot
the Union Jack is missing. As it
stands it is no recognised flag....
E.J.A.: Yes, insectivorous plants ot
various kinds are found in most parts
of the world, Their leaves or flowers
are provided with a gummy substance
or tentacles, sometimes both, which
attract the insects and hold them
while the plant digests the nourish-
ment. Sundew, butterwort and the
Venus-flytrap are typical examples.
T.H.: With trumps, the joker is
the master trump and no more.
With no trumps the joker becomes,
when led, the highest card of the
suit the leader elects it to represent.
The leader of it cannot nominate it
for a suit he has renounced. If he
plays it —not being the leader —to the
lead of a suit which he has previously
renounced, it has no winning value.
H.T.: The Curragh incident was
the name by which that dramatic and
unexpected gesture made at Curragh
Camp by General Hubert Gough and
other officers under his command
came to be known. On March 20,
1914, they tendered their resignations
as a protest against the likelihood of
being sent to enforce Home Rule
upon North-east Ulster. Their action
caused a political crisis of the first
order F.G.A.: Paragraphs con-
cerning those persons appeared in
The Bulletin of October 24, 1951,
and November 3, 1951... .C.J.L.:
See article “Wiping Out Rabbits” in
The Bulletin of November 28, 1951.
M.H.: David Low was a mem-
ber of The Bulletin art staff from
1911 to 1919....M.L.: The first
Eight Hours Day procession in
Sydney was held in 1872... .S.S.; A
reliable commercial preparation
known as Repellex is obtainable from
C. E. Hankm and Co., 24 Bond-
street, Sydney... .A.8.M.; Write
“Language,” Box 5097, G.P.0., Syd-
ney .... K.J.: From Sanskrit to Brazil
by Eric Partridge, published by
Hamish Hamilton, Ltd., 90 Great
Russell-street, London... .P.M.: The
Australian Language by Sidney J.
Baker, obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney.
R.M.: Sonnet thin C.W.L.; A
glimmer here and there Tn “Song of
the Harvest”... .M.E.C.; Stick to
your yabbies and avoid the poetic
diction of the 19th century...-J C. :
Distinctly promising. The image in
the final stanza is unnecessarily
unpleasant J.E.8.: Butter - poem
seems to have been churned out with
great difficulty... .Julia M.: Not
quite; but the fossil golf-balls are
pleasing... .Jerry H.: Royal Show
poem doesn’t get beyond tolerable
description.... A.D.; Immigr an t
ruminations too rough... .K.R.R.:
Too much city in the outback poem.
....E.F.K.: Topical verse needs to
be more polished than that
E.R.C.: Ring up the N.R.MJV. and
see if they can get the motoring
poem home... .W.M.K.: Jingle about
Scotsman on honeymoon in an aero-
plane fell 17,000 ft. into the basket.
I.S.: All slight... .S.W.: “Oft
in the silent night I lie awake and
ponder.” It’s an old poetic custom.
Noel B.: Nearly found a nook
for the hot-water-bottle; it gets a bit
cold at the end R.H.: At 18
there’s always hope. Your style’s
still too flat and wordy J.L.8.:
Your magpie seems to have mated
with Keats’s nightingale M.C.:
“Speed” went D. 8.: A lyrical
note in the love-songs, though you
might have found a happier phrase
than “And cows awaking told us ot
the day’s approach”.. . .H.F.H.;
Article on swearing, etc., might make
a “Society” par. or two
A.MacD.C.: Well enough written,
but too doleful Reginald H.
(N.Z.); Try again Bob Blood-
wood : The poem has hardly the
ring of your pen-name S.N.:
Don’t know any likely market for
the ballad about the sinner....
Richard H. (N.Z.): “Spring Vase” a
trifle too flowery.


FONDE
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
mm
Hi
■
%
mm
• •
i /
:■ v
■ -
The Electricity Trust of South Australia
has established a steam power station at the
Leigh Creek Coal Field. The load demand
includes electric excavators. Two turbo-
alternators are installed, served by two
Babcock boiler units each delivering 25,000 A
lbs. of steam per hour at 200 p.s.i. and
630°F. These units are equipped with
Babcock-Detroit RotoGrates. This spreader
type stoker has a forward travelling grate,
providing continuous ash removal. The
units burn successfully Leigh Creek coal
(minus 1") having a calorific value of
5,500, 6,500 8.T.U./lb. with from 28/36%
moisture and 7/17% ash.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
all, the water is level with the
veranda roof.” Peg wanted to
argue about it. “I heard they
plunge hypodermics in people
who refuse to go,” Harry urged,
“Besides, there’s Winnie.”
“I won’t go without Jessa-
mine,” Winnie said stoutly.
Jessamine was her baby doll,
complete with bonnet and
bootees.
Peg gave in. “Here,” she said
viciously. “Catch!” and flung
Jessamine out the window. The
policeman in charge, seeing
what he took to be a baby whirl-
ing through the air, decided the
woman had gone mad. With a
yelp of horror he flung himself
forward on his knees on the
veranda-roof and made the
catch of a lifetime. He had his
revenge a minute later when the
efficiently-clad Peg in her plaid
skirt climbed out the window
and found herself suspended
from a stout nail. Delicately
averting his face, the policeman
set about freeing her while Harry
carried Winnie down. The
Scotts sat in dignified silence
until their preservers set them
ashore on the steps of the Town
Hall.
“You’d better take Winnie
round to your mother’s,” Peg
said coldly. “I’ll go to Jane’s
flat.”
IANE looked as unlike her
sister Peg as was possible.
She was frail, beautiful and wil-
lowy, with a voice that rose to
a delicate shriek, and long, slim
hands that she waved vaguely.
But both of them were strong
as barbed-wire. When Peg burst
in Jane had just finished ex-
plaining to her husband how she
had carried all the furniture up-
stairs again single-handed ; and
she and Mervyn were arguing
over the wall-to-wall carpet.
“No,” Mervyn said desper-
ately, “I won’t do it. It’s too
hard to put down again. You
know it shrank last time.” Their
flat consisted of a kitchen, the
back stairs and two servants’
rooms of what had been a great
house.
“Too hard to put down!”
Jane cried. “You never lifted
a hand. Mother and I put it
down.” She turned to her sister.
“He’s only just come in. Never
a word as to where he has been
all day.”
“I walked over the railway
bridge to the heights.”
“What on earth for?”
Mervyn looked confused. He
glanced round his home, which
was furnished with one hard
chair. A candle stood on top
of a box. “Had to go some-
where,” he muttered.
“But what did you do all
day?”
“I was helping dig a grave,”
Mervyn said angrily.
“Whose grave was it?”
“I don’t know. For God’s
sake, Jane! I haven’t had any-
thing to eat, either.”
Jane immediately became a
ministering angel and flew up-
stairs to find food. While Peg
told them her news Mervyn sat
morosely eating bread and hard-
boiled eggs and contemplating in
his mind’s eye that grave full of
water, the red clay, the sucking
noise as they pushed in their
spades.
Harry Scott came in quietly
from bestowing his daughter and
reassuring his mother. “Where
do we sleep, Jane?” he asked.
“Oh, anywhere, Harry,” Jane
said. “You might be able to
dig out an armchair.”
AT least the water was no
higher by breakfast-time,
“You girls stay home,”
Mervyn ordered, as he took
Harry off with him to recon-
noitre. But the girls could not
stay home. Restlessness seized
them. There was nowhere to
sit, nothing to do. They prowled
out, down the main street to the
water’s edge, meeting little
groups who walked to and fro
as uneasy as they.
“This is the finish,” one man
said to another, looking at the
brown, lapping flood.
His neighbor nodded almost
without emotion. “That’s right,”
he said. “The stone finish.”
He looked across to where his
farm had been, the crops which
would have cleared his debts
from the first flood flattened and
gulped down ; the sodden pump-
kins knocking against the back-
door where nobody was at
home, the windows darkened by
great piles of water-hyacinth
crowding its snaky flesh-strands
against the glass to blur out the
light. Then he looked down at
his boots, solid boots for solid
ground. A froth of yellow soapy
bubbles piled up about them, an
unhealthy froth like that on the
glasses of mineral-water in the
window of a refreshment-room.
This spume tossed ashore
wherever there was a backwater.
The farmer kicked at it; some
of it flattened, some of it clung
to his boot. He wiped it off on
the grass, disgusted.
“Let’s go across,” Peg said
suddenly, “to the heights.”
The rain was coming down
again, beating on their eyelids,
running down their necks. But
over there beyond the old town
the heights were carrying on a
normal life. It would be better
than standing like this on the
edge of a nightmare unable to
come or go, standing fascinated
in the squalid foam. Occasion-
ally a boat battled across from
the new town to the heights, and
presently a motor-boat came by
with two policemen, one of them
the young man who had rescued
Peg not so many hours before.
“Where do you girls want to
go?” his superior asked.
“Why, we’ll go wherever
you’re going,” Jane declared;
and smiled at him.. The con-
stable grinned back.
“Stick around,” he said.
“We’ll see you’re all right.”
On the overhead bridge of the
railway a little crowd had col-
lected. When they saw the
motor-boat they shouted and
waved their umbrellas.
“Oh!” cried Jane, her frail
hands waving imploringly.
“There’s poor Mr. Truepenny.
He must come. Please!”
“0.K.,” the captain agreed
sourly. “Pick ’em all up.” He
frowned as Jane acted as hostess
to the little herd of passengers
scrambling aboard. But she was
such a pretty girl,
“Dear Mr. Truepenny,” Jane
said tenderly, “I suppose you are
going to see if your shop is
under water? Will you have a
sale if the drapery is wet?”
Mr. Truepenny, who had a
cold and blew his nose continu-
ally, assured her that his stock
was all safe with his wife’s
cousin, who was married to a
warder up at the Jail.
When they reached the
heights the passengers disem-
barked on the steps of a garage
and went leaping and scrambling
out with the help of their um-
brellas. There remained in the
boat only Peg, Jane, the two
policemen and a little wretched
old woman with blue lips. Her
feet were bare. She shivered,
continually, sitting huddled up.
“Oh, her poor feet,” Jane whis-
pered. The boat headed towards
the jail. “But you’re not taking
her there!” Jane cried. “Oh, no !
What a shame! All she wants
is a good cup of tea. You let
her come home with me.”
“She’ll be all right,” the
policeman assured his indignant
passenger. “Vagrant, see? Got
no place to sleep, doesn’t belong
to anyone.” The little old
woman sat dumb. “Come
along, flower,” the young con-
stable said gently, hooking his
big hand under hex elbow. He
walked her ashore, considerately
suiting his slow stride to her
weak and tottering walk.
“But we’re all vagrants,” Peg
thought. “We haven’t anywhere
to go.”
“Oh, her poor feet,” Jane
whispered again. She said no
more. Her husband had looked
in the face of despair, and for
him it had been a hole in the
clay filling with muddy water.
For the farmer in the thick boots
it was the foam in which he had
wiped his feet; but for the two
women silently watching that
little procession stumbling to-
wards the jail, the tall constable,
the poor, half-dazed, old bit of
humanity, the face of despair
had blue lips. Despair does not
cry out or behave itself un-
seemly, despair is humble. Its
face does not writhe in agony.
There is no pain left in it, be-
cause it is what the farmer said
it was —“The stone finish.”
The sergeant observed that the
dam was still holding, but they
did not care. There was noth-
ing more water could do. Every-
where it stretched away over the
flat country mile after mile. The
new town from which they had
come was a clustered corral of
buildings. The constable re-
turned, saying apologetically that
the old lady was really much
better off in a nice, warm cell.
“We’ll go ashore here,” the
two lady passengers announced
as the boat came back to the
main street. Coldly they said
thank-you, coldly they stepped
ashore.
""THE rain began again; and
1 now they were over the
other side of the flooded town
there was nothing to do, nowhere
to go. Shops were open because
even in this sickness of the
countryside people must go on
eating, buying pickles and news-
papers, safety-pins, candles and
toothpaste. But, whether they
liked it or not, sooner or later
they were drawn down and
stood beside the water. The
children poked at the harvest of
foam; pushed the piles of
bubbles out from shore so that
they turned slowly round and
round. They blew on the
bubbles so that they melted into
a brown scum,
“We’d better be getting back,”
Peg suggested. But the difficulty
was to find anyone going over,
The police-boat was in quite a
huff and ignored them,
“Mervyn and Harry are going
to be so mad about this,” Jane
sighed. It was getting dark, and
the lights of the new town came
over the waters in a very com-
fortable and reassuring way.
There was a wonderful sunset,
Finally a boat took them off
and carried them over to the
Town Hall steps. The current
seemed not quite so fierce. They
hurried up the darkened street
and clattered in the back door,
“Where have you been?”
Mervyn was so angry that he
swore at them. “Quick! Up-
stairs. Get upstairs.”
“But we couldn’t help it,
Mervyn. We’re sorry.”
“Sorry! Sorry! We’ve nearly
gone mad. Word’s just come
through the dam’s going any
minute. Get upstairs. It’s the
dam, I tell you!”
“Oh, dear,” Jane said
wretchedly. “The carpet! I
knew we should have taken up
the carpet.”
The destroyer dropped a charge
or two, but they weren’t needed,
There was no shore-time for
these thoroughly-salted British
salts; they had no sooner
delivered their convoy from
England before they picked up
their charges for England, They
ft L i balf -* a y , bacb
ere when the old routine started
again.
This time Duncan blooded her
quarry early; the oil gushed up
in a swirling, spreading patch,
with a clearly defined trail lead-
ing from it, as tell-tale as the
bubbles snaking from a diver’s
helmet. With the rest of the
destroyer-screen temporarily dis-
engaged and on the alert,
Duncan followed him leisurely,
sitting right on top of him.
Gretton cupped his duffle-coated
chin on his hand and stared
down over the edge of the
bridge.
“Look,” he said disgustedly,
“They’re sending ’em out raw
these days. Why the hell doesn’t
he sneak back and lie under the
big patch?” Then, turning to
the Rover :
We 11 have the stoker depth-
charge crew up, Number One.
Give em some practice.
The stokers got then practice
and , lbe German , a bell y ful o£
amatol.
Next day Gretton revised his
comment on the rawness of Ü-
boat commanders—one of them
was smack in the middle of the
convoy.
Gretton’s reaction was natural
and immediate. Everything he ? d
ever learnt was in the twisting
and probing which sent Duncan
careering through the lines like
a hungry otter. Given even
seconds of destroyer-free time
the German couldn’t miss. In
the middle of his gyrations
Gretton noticed his signal-
yeoman frantically jabbing his
outstretched fingers down over
the edge of the bridge; he was
mouthing speechlessly. Gretton
jumped to his side, craned over
and ed down -
Directly below (and the
author’s informant swears blind
it > s true ) not a dozen f eet f rom
sd - s j de and travelling
with it, was a U-boat’s periscope I
j was trained with v dreadful
intent on a bi tanker
abeam ’ Underneathj Gretton
Jaw i(s brid clearly beautiful
fluting lines of movement low-
j n g symmetrically from each
i eadini L edee *
s ,
seven seconds the chaiges
were ovei, pattern after blasting
pattern.
When the thunder had ceased,
the tanker winked a startled
yellow eye at Gretton
took the pencilled message from
the yeoman, started to curse,
then laughed. The tanker
captain was complaining that a
photograph of his wife and kids
had been blown from his cabin
bulkhead by the blast,
The rest of that trip, apart
from the weather, was logged by
Duncan as “uneventful.”


sd
fsd
f
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS
PTY. LIMITED . . . SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
RUDIP: Dual Purpose DDT Dip and Jetting Compound. RUCIDE: DDT Plunge Sheep Dip. KLEEP: The most efficient fly
dressing. RUSEPT: Antiseptic Emulsion for sterilizing in shed or yards. SULFADIP: Latest sulphur treatment for itch mite
and mycotic dermatitis. L.B.E.S C.5.1.R.0. Scourable branding oil. CARBONTETS Fluke drench. THIODRENt Pheno-
thiazine Powder for worm control. NICOTINE BLUESTONE DRENCH. LIME SULPHUR: For .tch mite. P.T.O.
PUMP AND BOOM SPRAYS: For Hormone weed killer application, fire fighting, sheep jetting, air compressor, spray
painting, suction head capacity. ICLEENFLOX: Sheep Blow Fly dressing with DDT,
M
Manufactured by Australia’s largest producers of D.D.T. . . . .from 100% Australian Materials.^^
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Quality
“Shadow-chaser”: There has
been no falling—other than sea-
sonal —in the quality of Merino,
Polwarth, Corriedale or fine
comeback wools. But there is
a deterioration of crossbred
quality.
It dates back to the develop-
ment of the fat-lamb industry
and the consequent multiplicity
of mutton breeds. Prior to that,
crossbreds were mainly the result
of crossing the Merino with the
Lincoln, and the comeback was
the result of mating the first
Merino-Lincoln cross with the
Merinos.
Both the first cross and the
comeback are far more resistant
to disease and foot trouble than
the Merino, cut a good fleece
and are pre-eminently the small-
farmer’s choice. Unfortunately,
both lack the frame to produce
a first-quality carcass of lamb
or mutton. So the well-woolled
Lincoln-cross was discarded for
a multitude of breeds, all good
mutton sheep, but all much
inferior in quality and quantity
of wool.
The fact that there was only
one exhibitor of Lincolns at the
recent Melbourne Show reveals
how this essential producer of
long wool has been discarded.
No other breed has been evolved
to take the Lincoln’s place as a
crossbred wool-grower. Seeing
that there must always be mil-
lions of crossbred sheep in Aus-
tralia depastured on country
where the fine wools will not
thrive, it is imperative that
something be done to improve,
or at least prevent, any further
depreciation of the crossbred
clip. A first step could be to
reduce the number of mutton
, , , A
breeds by mutual agreement
among fat-lamb producers,
with the aim of getting approved
longwools back as breeders.
Fallowing for Wheat
• •
“Triticum”: For 40 years or
more long-fallow has been the
practice of wheatgrowers almost
throughout Australia. There is
any amount of evidence that
wheat crops on long-fallow
yield over the years at least 50
per cent, more than short-
fallow crops in the same areas,
However, since erosion has
appeared on land in vulnerable
situations, the wisdom of long-
fallow is being doubted, since it
denudes the land of vegetable
cover for months. It is hard for
a grower to decide which is
best.
One of the greatest advantages
of long-fallow is that it stores
more moisture in the soil than
short-fallow. But land liable to
water-washing in wet seasons
and wind damage in dry is
hardly the sort of land that
should be exposed to either risk
by long-fallow. The end could
easily be no land at all.
The alternative, however, is
not short-fallow, for, though
this may lessen the length of the
danger period of soil loss by
erosion, it lowers the crop yields
because of greater weed compe-
tition, diminished soil moisture
and deterioration of the soil
structure or tilth.
The only means of solving the
dilemma is by alternating pas-
ture with cropping. With the
increased organic matter in the
soil resulting from the pasture,
many of the evils of either fal-
low, and even of burning the
stubble, will disappear. The
length of the pasture period is a
matter for the farmer to decide.
Heliothis in Linseed
“Delungra”: Spring is the
time to spray linseed crops
against the heliothis caterpillar,
according to Boris Janes, a
biologist of the Taubmans
chemical company.
Janes says the correct time to
spray is when about 75 p.c. of
the flowers have dropped and
young bolls have formed. At
this stage a number of grubs
may have hatched from eggs
laid by the moth when the
flowers bloomed.
If grubs have appeared, you
can bet many more eggs remain
to be hatched. By spraying now
the new caterpillars are killed,
a . > ..
and the residual effect of the
D.D.T. will kill the later-hatch-
ing for two or three weeks. A
second flowering of linseed
sometimes occurs. This attracts
moths from outside the sprayed
fields. Then a second spraying
is necessary to avoid reiniesta"
tion y
‘ .
Heliothis is positively con-
trolled by spraying with lib. of
D.D.T. per acre. Standard
method is to use a highly-
concentrated spray containing
about 25 p.c. of the para para
isomer of D.D.T. When mixed
with water 4gal. of this spray
provides from 30gal. to 40gal.
made-up spray, enough for
10 acres.
Test the spray by placing a
few bottles, sheets of glass or
mirrors in the crop. If the spray
has been correctly applied there
should be at least 60 pinhead-
size droplets per square inch on
the glass surfaces.
Molasses for Cows
Cows take readily to
molasses, which supplies the
calcium they need when in calf.
Best way to feed it is to spray it
on the hay the day before and
let it soak in. Solidified blocks
placed in containers in pad-
docks are satisfactory, but when
the herd mills round them the
timid cows miss out. Many N.Z.
farmers feed their cows quanti-
ties of molasses in both good
and bad seasons.
As little as ylb. a day will stall-
off calving sicknesses, put the
animal into good condition and
improve butter-fat quality. Cows
in advanced stages of milk-
fever have been restored to nor-
mal by feeding them big dosages
of it. In some herds they are
drenched with 61b. of molasses
over a period of three days
before calving.
On one farm of 90-odd cows,
excess instead of minimum
grazing was practised, and hay
and silage was fed from early
autumn to late spring. Molasses
was poured over the hay and
allowed to soak in, used on the
silage and also fed in concrete
troughs. In consequence one
case only of milk-fever was
recorded in three years.
Soil-conditioners
“Condo”: Krilium is only one
of several soil-conditioners
placed on the American market.
So far eight different products,
with sales ballyhoo, have
appeared. “Garden” packets are
aimed at the technically ignorant
and credulous home-gardener.
Few of these people, easily
hypnotised by advertisement,
understand clearly what a soil-
conditioner is, and will un-
doubtedly expect it to do alone
what can best be done by lime,
fertiliser and water.
Pasture Improvement
“Agric”: Climatically and in
soil types and other conditions
large areas of southern Queens-
land are very similar to the
N.S.W. New England country,
and graziers on the Queensland
side have shown a keen interest
in what the New Englanders are
doing to improve pastures.
R. Roe, of the C.5.1.R.0. re-
search-station near Armidale
there, says that at this time
last year sheep on a native-grass
section of the property weighed
521 b. and those on the improved
pasture 941 b. A heavier clip per
sheep and heavier carrying-
capacity increased wool-produc-
tion from 5.21 b. to 301 b. per
acre in one paddock.
A paddock of phalaris and
clover, sown with 2001 b. of
super, per acre and treated with
2001 b. per acre each autumn
since, was carrying five to the
acre most of the time.
Similar stories of increased
carrying-capacities on improved
pastures were heard at Deep-
water station, where the im-
provement programme began in
1927, and where such remark-
able results were achieved that
the Government resumed about
19,000 acres for soldier-settle-
ment, and left only about 4000
acres.
Impressed by the Deepwater
results, W. K. Hays undertook
pasture - improvement on
Heatherdine, Stannum, and in
years he has established 1000
acres of sown pasture., Hays
estimated cost of clearing, cul-
tivating, sowing and super, at
£6 to £7 per acre. Profits have
not yet been worked out, but he
says he is backing a certainty.
He expects carrying-capacity
next year to be 20 per cent,
better than when he bought the
property in 1949.
Legumes in the Mallee
“Tutye”: The C.5.1.R.0. says
there’s no future for cereals on
the Ninety-mile desert country in
south-east South Australia, but
“I've only got to clip the edges after this
and I'm with you”
there is a future for legume
grains.
At Coonalpyn Downs an area
cleared of mallee and broom
bush was toned-up with l|cwt.
of super, and 71b. each of zinc
sulphate and copper sulphate per
acre. Grain legumes were
sown. Dun field-peas yielded 25
bushels an acre, and several
vetches did well. This means that
after the legumes good pasture
could be established —or that’s
what the experiments suggest,
anyway.
Taints in Milk
“Sundowner”: Milk- taint
usually comes from weeds, and
the way to stop it is destroy the
weeds or. keep the cows off
them.
Cress and pennyroyal are the
most common milk-tainters in
Victoria. Large patches of
either should be grazed by dry
stock. If milkers are allowed on
them, get them off at least four
hours before milking. These
weeds may be controlled by a
spring spray of lib. of 2,4-D per
acre.
A common taint is that of
trefoil. It can even taint honey,
but, as distinct from milk and
butter, trefoil in honey isn’t
offensive.
Trefoil-taint occurs generally
where there has been little or no
winter-saved grass and where
cows have been wintered on a
fibrous diet containing little
protein. Since it usually appears
in the first flush of spring
growth, it is obviously a matter
of careful feeding of the cows.
Garden Compost
“Myrrhee”: To make garden
‘compost, build the vegetable
waste into a heap, covering each
layer of 6in. to Sin. with an inch
or two of animal manure,
of soil and a sprinkling of lime.
Build layer by layer until the
heap is 4ft. high by 4ft. by 4ft.
If more garden waste becomes
available, the length of the heap
can be extended and height and
width maintained. To allow
gases to escape and speed up de-
cay, make vents in the pile every
2ft. or so by driving a stake
right to the bottom of the heap
and rotating it to make holes
about 4in. in diameter. After
two months turn the heap, plac-
ing the top at the bottom and
the sides at the centre. In
warmer weather this second heap
will be broken down sufficiently
for use in about a month.
A Kapok Tree
“Plane Creek”: S. A. Lillen-
dal, a canefarmer, of Koumala
(C.Q.), has had a kapok-tree
growing on his property for 25
years, and says one tree will pro-
vide enough kapok to meet the
needs of a family.
Native of the East Indies, the
kapok-tree is thornless and may
be used for shelter or ornamen-
tation. Bearing starts when a
tree is about five years, increas-
ing yearly. The tree is at its
best from the age of 15 years,
when it may be expected to yield
from 600 to 900 pods containing
from 61b. to 91b. of floss. The
pods are picked when quite ripe
and dried in the sun, after which
the wool is harvested.
The tree grows well in tropi-
cal districts of Queensland ; seed
may be obtained from the
Curator, Botanical Gardens,
Rockhampton (C.Q.).
Brown-spot in Passions
“Hortus”: Don’t wait until
the first signs of brown-spot
appear. Spray the young plants
right from the start at regular
intervals. Spraying should be
monthly during summer and
autumn. In winter spray only
now and again.
The best mixture is Bordeaux,
4-4-50, if the spot is show-
ing here and there. Use a
weaker formula if there is no
sign of the disease, viz, 4-4-80.
If fruit is hanging on the
vines, many growers turn to
oxi-cop or cuprox; which leave
practically no spray residue.
Brown-spot is very infectious.
It only needs a raindrop to fall
from a diseased leaf or stem on
to another part of the plant to
spread it. Hence the need
to remove and burn all infected
sections.
Hints for the Farm
“M.”: Victorian Department
of Agriculture tests have demon-
strated the efficacy of benzene
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Some fresh southern sunspots should reach their active
position early in October, when further rains are due, this
time probably associated with thunderstorms. They are
only moderate rains in the cycle, but the spots may assist
to make the falls greater. Here, however, there is only my
research to guide us and that has not yet gone on long
enough to be decisive. The scientific world so far regards
this method as unorthodox.
Later in October further very good storms are likely,
and the season promises well.


hexachloride (8.H.C.) against
the harlequin-bug. The depart-
ment recommends spraying with
lindane (the common name for
the pure gamma isomer of
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
w-ito for free illustrated pamphlet.
"DISTRIBUTORS :■ """*
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), .Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND : Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
Pe&v/ talk it
But haven’t you noticed Javelin owners don’t so
much mind the subject of miles per gallon. *
You see, an honest average of 30 m.p.g. is wh&t they
usually get on ordinary trips and the Javelin’s
impressive performance thrown in.
Of course if you’re always driving flat out at 80,
which by the way the car will do, you’ll use more
petrol. But by and large, even making free use of the
outstanding acceleration (0-50 in 15-4 secs.), you’ll be
round the 30 m.p.g. mark or perhaps a bit better.
The Javelin is a waste of money if you don’t care
what a car does. There’s such a lot built into it that
doesn’t really show until you have one in your hands
—real family comfort —economy —and performance.
Best speed, electrically timed, 80 m.p.h. Acceleration
0-50 m.p.h. in 15-4 secs, (“The Motor” 1952 Road
Test). Horizontally opposed flat-four engine gives
30 m.p.g.
JOWETT JAVELIN
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Liberty
Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne: Redman Motors, Brisbane;
B.E.A. Distributors Ltd., Adelaide; Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Perth; Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
The li litre
one day it has to be YOURS !
Made by Jowett Cars Limited, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire,
who make the Jowett Jupiter convertible class winner
of 9 major trials and races in 1950/51 and, of course, the
famous range of 8 h.p. Bradford commercial vehicles.
BOONOKE
POLLED BOONOKE
VANGANELLA ESTATE
This is the blood
that will make
YOUR FLOCK FAMOUS
*
for full particulars write
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
Boonoke North. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
....
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
DESIGN: No. 8; HEIGHT: 37}"*
WIDTH: 6'6i"; PRICE (at works)*
£l2/18/6
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and “Kosi", “Wonderheat and
"Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
OLIVER
Model 30
Grain Master
HIGH in Capacity
WIDE .. in Crop Range
HANDSOME.. in Return
Embodied in this Model 30 Combine Harvester are
features time-proved during over 100 years of
threshing experience.
The Model 30 “Grainmaster” has a full 12 ft. cut,
has the capacity for the biggest grain crops, proves
its value when crops are “down” and lodged. Use
this same Model 30 to harvest wheat, oats, barley,
rye—plus 37 other seeds and grains. Engine-
functioned for full efficiency; available with grain
tank or sacker platform. Ask your distributor
today for delivery and full details.
m
6A&
The Tractor is an Oliver “88”
Diesel Model. Drawbar h.p. 39.
“Finest in Farm Machinery”
OLIVER
■
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS
Header: 12 ft. cut. Cutting Range 3\
in. to 32 in. Reel: 6 bat (“down
grain” reel special equipment). Rasp
bar cylinder, speed variable from 375
to 1,325 r.p.m. Large oscillating straw
walkers, chaffer and sieve. Grain tank
or sacker platform. 32 h.p. motor.
Header controls available from tractor
seat (special equipment).
DISTRIBUTORS:
Q’land: U.K. and Dominion Motors. 365-379 Wickham St., Brisbane. N.S.W.: Britstand Distributors.
Ltd., 56-64 Gardeners Road, Mascot. VIC.; Queen’s Bridge Motor & Eng. Co. Pty., Ltd., 31-43
Queen’s Bridge St., Melbourne. S.A.: Elder Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-35 Currie St., Adelaide. W.A.:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay St., Perth. TAS.: Queen’s Bridge Motor & Eng. Co. Ltd.,
72 Federal St., Hobart. N.Z.: F. W. Smith, Ltd. (P.O. Box 1623, Wellington), Wellington.
NEW GUINEA: New Guinea Co. Ltd.
8.H.C.) at a strength of 0.04 per
cent., i.e., loz. in 12gal. of
water.
“My”: Victorian Department
of Agriculture reports cutworm
prevalence and recommends a
bait as follows: lib. of B.H.C.
20 per cent, dust with 301 b. of
bran. Add water to make a
crumbly mash and spread over
the infested area at the rate of
301 b. per acre. An alternative
but more expensive method is to
spray or dust with D.D.T. (11b.
of pure D.D.T. to the acre).
“The Missus”: A length of
lin. iron-piping is driven firmly
into the floor at each end of the
proposed fowl-perch so that the
top is 2ft. high. A 4in. nail
driven through the ends of a 2in.
by lin. hardwood batten drops
into the piping and holds the
perch firmly. When cleaning
out the sheds it is a simple
matter to lift the batten up and
wipe down with a rag dipped in
kerosene.
“Citrange”: As a result of
tests, the rough lemon is no
longer favored as a stock for
citrus in California. Trifoliata
stocks are recommended only
for oranges, grapefruit stocks
only for lemons. Sour orange is
recommended as a stock for
lemons on heavy soils, and
sweet orange for light virgin
soils.
“Hortus”: One of the best
N.S.W. cattle-dog breeders has
not had ayy tick trouble for
years. He puts as much sulphur
as can be placed on a three-
penny-bit once a week in the
feed, and it does the job.
“C. Real”: Working out the
weight of hay in a stack depends,
of course, on the quality and
age of the hay. But a reason-
ably close estimate can be made
with sheafed cereal hay like this:
Oaten, when first put in the
stack, 350 cubic feet to the ton ;
a week later, 325 ; a month later,
300 ; a year later, 275. Relative
figures for wheaten are 375, 350,
325 and 300. To get the cubic
contents of the stack multiply
in feet the length by the width.
Then take a third of the height
from eaves to peak, add this to
the height from ground to eaves,
and multiply the first result by
this. You then have the cubic-
feet content and divide by one
of the numbers given to get the
weight in tons.
“Big Billy”; Dose pullets with
one c.c. capsule of carb. tet. to
deal with roundworms. Don’t
wait until worms are seen in the
droppings, but do it as a routine
practice.
“Prad Nurse”: Get a gallon
of castor-oil, a pint of salad-oil
and £lb. of beeswax. Mix them
thoroughly and you’ve got a
harness-dressing that will stop
rats and keep the leather in good
nick.
“Kiloy”; Where a small tank
is in fairly constant use and
being hauled about in a cart or
trailer, pack old inner-tubes
under it. That’ll cushion the
bumps and stop the tank from
splitting or buckling.
“Line-up”; There’s no great
difference in the durability of
charred as against uncharred
fence-posts, but charring is a
preservative for posts with the
sap still in them. It’s a waste of
time for well-seasoned posts.
“Donkey”: Carrots when
being prepared for marketing
should be cleaned of soil as far
as possible, but avoid washing
or scrubbing, as this induces
mould and reduces storage life.
Carrots should be in bunches of
six or 12, and graded into three
classes large, medium and
small.
“Garden”: When it is neces-
sary to spray pot-plants to
destroy insect-pests place the
pots on their sides so that the
spray cannot saturate the soil.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The British
The British are a modest race, and have
been apparently unmoved by U.S.
criticisms of their production efforts. It
is easy to give two reasons why such
statistics are nonsense anyway.
In British coalmining narrow seams,
outcrops and opencast mines are being
worked. Production there is slower than
in bigger mines where machinery can be
used. In farming, marginal land and
poor ground are being carefully culti-
vated. In both cases, that brings down
the average yield. But in a country which
needs all the coal and food it can produce
it is surely sensible.
It is certainly not sensible to suggest
that the British are a race of incom-
petents. The people who invented tanks
and aircraft-carriers, who discovered
television and radar, and who were first
in the field with atomic research are not
such fools as some critics would have us
believe. And when it comes to guts, they
make a lot of other nations look filleted.
—Squib (Q.).
Adelaide’s Electricity
“Citizen” (B. 17/9/’52) has ignored
some of the facts. Over 10 years ago a
senseless series of strikes in N.S.W. made
S.A. run short of coal. Premier Playford
saw industry slowed down because of the
shortage of power. He knew there must
be a local fuel-supply to cure it, other-
wise S.A. would go on being at the mercy
of N. S. Wales Communists. We had but
one field, of low-grade coal suitable for
development—Leigh Creek.
The Adelaide electric-supply concern
wouldn’t co-operate. It declared that its
steam-raising plant had been designed for
best steam-coal and would not make the
necessary alterations to enable low-grade
fuel to be burned. Declaring “My Gov-
ernment is not out to create monopolies
—we control them instead,” Play-
ford took over the concern and
formed it into the Electricity Trust of
S.A.
He went ahead with development of
Leigh Creek field and two huge regional
power-stations, as close as possible
to the source of fuel-supply. Power-
lines were established to carry the
current from them to wherever it could
be used. Since his plans started to mature
S.A. has escaped most of the blackouts
which have afflicted other States.
The inertia which creeps into State
enterprises hasn’t proved very bad in the
S.A.E.T. so far, and Leigh Creek
field now shows a profit. Ask any factory-
manager which he would prefer—the old
order of power shortages or the new one —
and he’ll plump for what we have today
every time. — H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
N.S.W. Transport
The wrong approach is being made to
the N. S. Wales transport mess. To begin
with, is it essential that transport
systems should pay their way? If that is
so, then the solution is simple. Run only
those services that have a chance to pay,
and cut out the others. If the transport
system is to pay, then half Sydney and all
the far country will have to do without
transport.
The only justification for a State-
owned transport is that it provides a
service for the public where private enter-
prise would not and could not. If the city
is to expand and overcrowding be pre-
vented, then new areas on the outskirts
must be opened up. State transport must
beat the population, otherwise people will
not live there. Population follows
transport.
It is the same in the country. There
are hundreds of miles of branch railway-
lines that have never paid their way since
they were built, yet in opening-up the
country and encouraging closer-settlement
their value is incalculable.
The transport system must carry these
dead losses. They can’t be balanced by
making the profitable lines pay for them.
The only solution is increased efficiency
from the top to the bottom, so that losses
are brought to the irreducible minimum.
Our transport wastes time and money
in a thousand ways. Most of these are
only small in themselves but add up to a
formidable total. On the Wynyard to
Palm Beach bus-route the crews change
over at Seaforth. The relieving crew drive
from Manly depot in a double-decker
marked “special.” The old crew then
return to the depot in the special. Five
minutes later the same thing occurs again,
and so on for a dozen times during the
day.
Again, the N. S. Wales Transport
Department is about the only employer
giving employees free transport to and
from work, even sending utilities
to collect senior officers. The six
railway porters who waited all one
Sunday at Central goods section for two
trucks that didn’t arrive were paid
pefialty-rates. And so on. Add to those
the internal inefficiency about which the
public can know very little, and the
wonder is the financial crisis didn’t come
sooner.
Before there’s any talk of placing it
on a business basis, a director should be
appointed who has the ability to run a
gigantic show like N. S. Wales trans-
port. But a man like that would have to
be paid the same as he would get in a
private firm with the same capital invest-
ment. He must be free from political
interference and particularly free from
union dictatorship. Then, even if the
transport system did not pay, at least we
would know it was being run as
“Two and a half with a twist—not bad!”
economically as was consistent with a
satisfactory service to the public.—Rann
(N.S.W.).
I
Town-planning on the Cheap
The N. S. Wales Government having
extended, for the second time, the final
date by which claims for compensation
under town-planning must be lodged
by property-owners, the closing date
is now December 27, 1952. This year,
next year—what does it matter! There
doesn’t appear to be any cash in the
kitty to compensate sufferers lodging
claims. And at the rate claims are being
lodged there are likely to be more people
missing-out than collecting.
All that has appeared concerning the
Cumberland County town-planning
scheme since the plan became law
wouldn’t fill two columns in a weekend
comic. The Real Estate Institute is
about the only organisation that has
issued any warnings to property-owners,
and the inquiries that have arisen from
those warnings indicate that people have
only a hazy idea that ( a plan exists, let
alone how it affects them.
Months ago the council began work
on a book purporting to explain its plan.
It’s not ready for publication, and by the
time it is ready it will probably be too
late to be of use. Local councils have
let their ratepayers down. In very few
districts have there been any notices
published in local papers advising rate-
payers that their land may be subject
to the Cumberland plan and that they can
verify this at the council chambers. Nor
has any council taken steps to inform its
ratepayers of the steps they should take
to lodge their claims for compensation.
The winning of fair recompense for
actual loss sustained by zoning or ex-
propriation of private property is a job
for experts. Private individuals are faced
with the alternatives of accepting what is
offered them by the authorities or of
spending considerable money in obtaining
expert help—valuers, lawyers, etc. In
these tiroes particularly, when costs have
risen so high, the task of persuading the
planners that compensation should be
paid on a basis sufficient to enable the
dispossessed party to re-establish himselt
as if he had not been affected by the
plan is a formidable one.
Unfortunately the planners go to work
on the principle that someone has to lose
in order that the community as a whole
will gain. That principle may have merit,
but, since most of the people affected
by the plan are working-class people
whose land and homes have been acquired
at no small sacrifice, a far better prin-
ciple would be one that ensures that no
one suffers loss. Those who may be
dispossessed or compelled to develop
their property along lines other than those
for which it was acquired should be com-
pensated to the full extent of their dis-
ability. That can only be done by paying
market-value as at date of resumption,
and by paying it smartly, so that the
affected party can get on with an alterna-
tive plan of his own. — Cave (N.S.W.).
Free Medicine
The average working man is surprised
when the chemist’s assistant hands him a
bottle of tablets and says “No charge.
Free medicine.” On the other hand are
the knpw-it-alls who are annoyed when
they have to pay out cash for non-benefit
medicines. They look suspiciously at the
assistant and demand “What about the
Government free medicine?” ,
Pensioners generally are better in-
formed. They can partake of the pharma-
ceutical benefits free to all, but also have
extra benefits, and these on a far larger
scale.
Pharmaceutical benefits (free to all)
consist mainly of life-saving drugs such
as sulphas, certain penicillins and the
various modifications of insulin. Pen-
sioner benefits consist of proven formulae,
pharmacopceial drugs, or combinations
of those two. In that pensioners are en-
titled to the life-saving drugs, plus their
own embracing list of other drugs, rare
is the complaint that can’t be treated free
for them.
As a chemist, I’m of two minds about
the value of this Government scheme.
When a wealthy patient arrives with yet
another free prescription for some minor
complaint it is bad. But when Mrs. X,
a widow, comes with a prescription for
her fragile asthmatic little daughter, then
it is good.— Farmacist (Vic.).
Commonwealth Loans
As far as I know, the assurances of
accredited loan authorities that near par
value could be obtained at call (B.
10/9/’52) have never been backed by
official statements in loan advertisements,
Press statements or radio appeals. Some
travelling loan organisers have no doubt
fostered that belief, and bush telegraph
has done the rest. I had a discussion with
one such chap on that very contention,
and when pinned down by argument his
assertions were based on the then stability
of the loan market. There never has been
an official guarantee of money back at
call, and the unhappy result of incorrect
information unthinkingly spread is now
reflected in a lack of confidence in the
market, resulting partly from a strong
selling pressure by antagonist investors.
Most bond investors would be capable
of understanding the application form
placed before them for signature. It is
merely a simple form of contract in which
the applicant undertakes to lend to the
Government a certain sum of money for
a defined period at a specified rate of
interest. The Government in return
undertakes to repay principal in full at
maturity and the agreed rate of interest
in the interim. Anyone who wants to
dispute that contract in a law court has
the job in front of him.
If perchance the Government, by some
error of judgment, now agreed to reim-
burse investors at call, could “C.8.M.”
tell me from what source any Treasurer
could hope to find the necessary cash?
Who wouldn’t prefer, for example, to take
a risk on 5 per cent. C.S.R. debentures?
And that is not the least vital point to
consider.
1 agree that many people invested for
patriotic reasons in the first place, and I
sincerely hope that most of them will
continue to be both patriotic and patient
until maturity, when they will get their
money back.—H. J. D. (N.S.W.).
Disappearing History
Australian history research-workers
who go searching for information handed
down verbally through pioneering
families and in old letters and papers and
diaries can expect to find the cupboard
barer and barer every year. The last pre-
radio, pre-talkies generation is dying out
fast, and its children have never had time
to listen carefully enough to its stories to
be able to retain them. This disappear-
ing generation was also the last to pre-
serve letters and papers.
A number of times lately I have gone
to descendants of pioneers for informa-
tion, only to be told that I should have
come while grandpa or auntie was still
alive ; or that with the death of the last
of the old people they shoved all the
family letters, diaries, old documents and
photos under the copper.
Surely it’s time the Government formed
a history commission which could
send research-workers through the
Commonwealth to record the last
verbal remembrances of our early
history that have been retained,
and to copy, or otherwise preserve, all
photographs and papers of historical
interest that have so far escaped the
unthinking vandalism of our age. Such
a commission could work in conjunction
with a body, similar to the English
National Trust, which could be
empowered to preserve from destruction
buildings and sites of scenic, historical
or artistic value.— Bonwick’s Ghost
(S.A.).
Railway Waste
A thing that puzzles many railway
men, as well as the paying public, is the
indifference of the railway administration
to large quantities of valuable' equipment
left to lie idle and deteriorate throughout
N. S. Wales. ;
Between Nevertire and Warren a large
number of steel rails are lying covered
with grass on the flats near the railway-
line. Some of the rails have evidently
been washed out by floods, but no effort
has been made to recover them.
A tremendous quantity of steel rails,
sleepers and heavy timber is going to
waste in obsolete sidings, spur-lines to
old mines, gravel- and sand-pits, etc.,
which have been officially abandoned and
will never be used again.
The department has cried shortage of
similar equipment for years. If the
material is of no use to the railway there
is a sure and profitable market for rails
and heavy timber in construction work or
bridge-building, while sleepers are eagerly
sought for fencing purposes or firewood.
—Ann (N.S.W.).
Wrong Rights
Do these advocates of “the rights of
small nations” ever stop to see where the
policy has got us and the small nations?
Most of the world’s tension seems to
be due to small nations —North and South
Korea, Persia, Egypt, Israel, one or two
Central American republics and odd spots
in Africa where this or that black chief
has been deposed or got himself hitched
to some white girl. We Australians are
committed to spending a lot of our tax-
money in places like India, Pakistan,
Ceylon, Burma, Malaya, Thailand —where
large numbers of the locals seem to want
to get at one another’s throats or some-
body else’s throat.
It seems silly, and is even sillier when
it’s brought into our own national affairs,
where the right of some disgruntled
toiler to dislike the foreman’s face or to
comb his hair in the boss’s time throws
industrial courts into mild panics and
often results in a costly strike.
This “new order” we allegedly fought
for seems to have done one thing well-
given the term “rights” the same meaning
as “licence” and destroyed the meaning
of responsibility.— Clooter (N.S.W.).


LACHLAN MACQUARIE,
by M. H. Ellis
The life story of one of Australia’s
greatest figures. Second, revised
edition; with 8 colour plates.
50/- (post 1/3)
KING SOLOMON’S RING,
by Dr. Konrad Lorenz
With rare charm and humour a
scientist - naturalist writes about
birds, beasts and fishes.
25/6 (post 1/1)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l.
Become a Satisfied Subscriber to
SYDNEY’S FINEST LIBRARY
DYMOCK’S LIBRARY
Every reading taste is fully catered for and large quantities of all new books are
added daily. Provide for a full year’s reading at a moderate cost. Exchanges as
often as desired.
Special Concessions For All Country Subscribers
Send for Particulars and Library Catalogue.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. Phone 8L3611.
Latest Australian Publications
±ty pages, uecoranons ana 7 pages of maps of wine-growing areas. Cloth
binding. Georgian House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 21/-.
COAST TO COAST 1951-52, selected by Kenneth Levis. Selection of short stories by
Australian writers. 8| x SJ. 256 pages. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd.,
Sydney. 16/-.
GOLDV, by Kathleen Mellor, illustrated by Harold Freedman. Children’s picture-
story book. 6J x 7J. 24 pages. Illustrated in colour on every page. Manilla
cover. Georgian House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 3/-.
OVER THE HILL, by Kathleen Mellor, illustrated by Harold Freedman. Children’s
picture-story book. 6| x 7J. 24 pages. Illustrated in colour on every page.
Manilla cover. Georgian House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 3/-.
PINE FARM, by Kathleen Mellor, illustrated by Harold Freedman. Children’s
picture-story book. 6£ x 7J. 24 pages. Illustrated in colour on every page.
Manilla cover. Georgian House Pty Ltd., Melbourne. 3/-.
COLOSSAL CORCORAN IN CENTRAL AFRICA, by W. Ingram Morgan. Boys’
adventure novel. 7 x 5. 112 pages. 6 illustrations. Cloth binding. B. W. Cole,
Melbourne. 6/6.
COLOSSAL CORCORAN IN MYSTERY VALLEY, by W. Ingram Morgan. Boys’
adventure novel. 7x5. 112 pages. 6 illustrations. Cloth binding. E. W. Cole,
Melbourne. 6/6.
COLOSSAL CORCORAN ON SKULL ATOLL, by W. Ingram Morgan. Boys’
adventure novel. 7x5. 112 pages. 6 illustrations. Cloth binding. B. W. Cole,
Melbourne. 6/6.
COLOSSAL CORCORAN ON SMOKE ISLAND, by W. Ingram Morgan. Boys’
adventure novel. 7x5. 112 pages. 6 illustrations. Cloth binding. E. W. Cole,
Melbourne. 6/6.
THE AUSTRALIA BOOK, by Eve Pownall, illustrated by Margaret Senior. Best
children’s book of the year award. 14 x 10. 48 pages. Illustrated in full colour
throughout. Map. Board Cover. John Sands Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 13/6.
COUSINS-COME-LATELY, by Eve Pownall, Children’s book. 10 x 7s. 102 pages.
30 illustrations. Map. Paper board cover. Shakespeare Head Press, Sydney. 12/6.
THE GRAMOPHONE HANDBOOK, by Selwyn Speight. All about gramophones.
8-J x 5h 209 pages. 19 illustrations. Currawong Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney. 25/-.
SUN ORCHIDS, by Douglas Stewart, with pen drawings by Norman Lindsay.
A book of verse. 10 x6L 71 pages. 38 pen drawings. Cloth binding. Angus
& Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 25/-.
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
Ltd., Sydney. 30/-.
- - ~ 9 J JL bJJC JAiLC-IVC uuuaws Ui
the Kimberleys. 8f x si. 244 pages. 29 illustrations, 1 map. Cloth binding.
Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 18/-.
VFUfE IN ATJSTRATiTA- hv Walffip -TomOcA I) on Holr 1 n rliof ? ATI nutT P r\ urn Ol KB
U til. j Oj UlltJj •
OF THE LEOPOLDS, by lon L. Idriess. Story of the native outlaws of
the Kimberleys. 8f x si. 244 pages. 29 illustrations, 1 map. Cloth binding.
Anoma A- T? nhorfcAr, ltd C 5 10/
The Australian Book Publishers’ Association
smells and not the glorious achievements
of its architects and artists.
But sometimes he did see something
worth seeing. Mr. Laver’s star example
of Nostradamus’s uncanny capacity to
foretell events hundreds of years before
they happened concerns Varennes,
a little French town which has only once
made its bow on the stage of history.
That was when that ill-fated monarch
Louis XVI arrived there on his flight
from Paris, was stopped and sent back
with Marie Antoinette, both of them to
lose their heads on the scaffold.
Nostradamus describes this episode in
his usual cryptic and symbolic fashion,
or he is supposed to have described it.
He talks of a night drive through a forest
by a married couple, one of them a Capet
(Louis was a Capet), their arrival, at
Varennes and the final result, which was
tempest, fire and blood and slicing. There
was certainly plenty of tempest, fire and
blood and slicing in the subsequent
Revolution, so there is some evidence for
believing that in this particular instance
Nostradamus had his prophetic eye to
the right keyhole. It is certainly remark-
able that, of all the thousands of villages
in France that have never left their mark
in history. Nostra should have mentioned
Varennes, which did win a historical
mention. But it is surprising that, when
he could spot that one little town through
the dark mists of the future, he missed so
much more.
Being a physician, who had battled
with the Great Plague so successfully in
Marseilles fljat he was invited to succor
half the plague-stricken provinces of
France and whose own wife had been
swept away by the disease, it is a wonder
that he wasn’t interested in Edward
Jenner, who was busy on his investiga-
tions into smallpox when King Louis was
at Varennes.
Although he was interested in science
or what passed for it in the Middle Ages,
he doesn’t mention Newton, Darwin,
Lister, Professor Rutherford or Pierre and
Marie Curie; and, although he was
interested in poetry and always used it
m his prophecies, he makes no reference
to Shakspeare, Shelley, Dr. Samuel
Johnson or Henry Lawson. Although a
philosopher of sorts, he makes no men
°f Descartes, Kant, Hume or
Bertrand Russell. In a tour of 100 years
of English history he mentions Raleigh’s
raid on Cadiz, the marriage of Mary
Queen of Scots, the Battle of Dunbar
Oliver Cromwell and King Charles’s
execution, but he doesn’t mention Sir
Christopher Wren, the theory of evolu-
tion, relativity or the splitting of the
atom.
It is a fact that Cromwell wore a
corselet underneath his coat for fear of
assassination, but he could hardly be
called a coward, so the prophet stands
convicted of either not meaning Crom-
well at all or of allowing the political
prejudices of a Royalist to blind his seer-
iike vision. For one so politically-minded
a f t , Nostradamus it is surprising that,
although he foretold the enormous influ-
ence that Napoleon would wield on the
world’s history and mentions Hitler,
Mussolini, Marshal Retain and General
franco, he didn’t notice Karl Marx sit-
ting m the British Museum in London.
keyhole DeVer looked through that
However, 300 years before Tennyson,
ne did see so many grasshoppers (aero-
planes) raining death on London that the
light of the sun was clouded, so it must
ave been a day raid. We can’t expect
even the most industrious prophet to see
everything, but a man who is so meti-
culous as to mention a hailstorm which
interrupted a fight between two insigni-
ficant Italian princes and who pro-
phesied misery and death and damnation
and eventual annihilation for the peoples
of the earth never seems to have heard
the atom-bomb go off at Hiroshima.
This is all I have to say about the
experiences of Nostradamus, but I’ll tell
a little experience of my own which,
occurred when I was reading Mr. Laver’s
book. I haven’t Nostra’s cryptic skill, so
I won’t put it in a quatrain. I bought a
ticket in Tatt’s for the first time in 25
years, and the list of prizes came while
I was reading Nostradamus. I ran my
eye down the list and went cold all over.
There was my name opposite the £5OOO-
- I shut my eyes and then looked
again. It was “Pawang” all right, but it
wasn’t me —it was another “Pawang” I
had never heard of, and there are not'
many “Pawangs” in Australia. That the
chap in Hobart could have put his hand
into the hat and drawn my name and
somebody else’s number out of the couple
of hundred thousand tickets in the con-
sultation struck me as remarkable as the
affair Nostradamus had with Varennes.
Pawang.
Reviewed Briefly
Flight Eastward: John Fores (Cape).
A novel of a passenger-flight from Eng-
land to India. The first part is a brilliant
bit of reportage on the daily grind of
captain and crew of a large air-liner
then, with the forced landing of the
plane on a desert airstrip, the story
develops dramatically, with stolen jewels,
a sinister ground-station commandant, an
attempted rape of a lovely passenger, a
love-affair arising out of this, an escape,
and the triumphant entry into the world
of crime of an air-steward.
* * * *
Madeleine Grown Up: Mrs. Robert
Henrey (Dent). Continues the life-story
of The Little Madeleine from early 1928
to the end of 1929, when the authoress
was married. Mostly set in London,
where Mrs. Henrey worked as a mani-
curist at the Savoy Hotel, with an ex-
cursion to the Pyrenees in search of
health. Mrs. Henrey, who made a nam
for herself during the war with her book
about her farm in Normandy, has been
called “a female Balzac,” and C. E
Vulliamy said of The Little Madeleine “
do not know of a single autobiography
which can be said to surpass it.” The
praise is excessive—there remains, after
all, Pepys’s Diary —but the writing cer
tainly has freshness and a warm feeling
for life; rather like Katherine Mansfield
in its intense femininity, though without
the fine edge of brilliance.
* * * *
Creatures Great and Small: Colette
(Seeker and Warburg). Introduces in one
volume, translated by Enid McLeod, three
books by one of the most distinguished
French novelists and nature-writers of this
century ; the volume completes Seeker and
Warburg’s Uniform Edition which opened
with Cheri. About half the book con-
sists of animal-dialogues, chiefly the cat
Kiki talking to the bulldog Toby, and
the rest is made up of observations and
anecdotes opr-all sorts of creatures from
goldfish to tortoises, with a few short-
stories such as the little sketch of the
too-faithful bitch who led the returned
soldier to the house where his mistress’s
lover lived. This reviewer, while admiring
Colette’s prose and her intense sympathy
with the animal mind, found it a little
difficult to enter into the spirit of Toby’s
conversations with the cat ; and prefers
the general nature-observations, such as
the extraordinary account of a goldfish
which leapt out of its bowl and spent a
happy night behind the drawing-room
curtains.
Scottish Verse, 1851-1951 •' selected by
Douglas Young (Nelson). An unexpected
bit of Australian interest in this anthology
is the inclusion of Will Ogilvie ; though
one would not compare “The Blades of
Harden,” with a good deal of hearty ho-
hoing in it, with the best of his Australian
ballads such as “A Moonlight
Tryst.” The book brings up a lot of the
younger Scottish writers who, under the
influence of the recent nationalist and
separatist movements, have gone back to
the use of dialect, sometimes effective and
sometimes merely a smokescreen for
ineptness or Communist filibusterings
* * * * ° '
April Snow: Lillian Budd (Shakspeare
Head). Novel of life on a Swedish island-
farm. Stock characters are vehicles
whereby many of the vices ate opposed
to most of the virtues. Simple piety and
hearts of gold triumph eventually. A
few apparently authentic pictures of
Swedish life.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 194
Across
I—Demon-driven town named after
5 across before 500 and a place
to rest wickedness in the van
formerly. (10)
q .nt er of English history, (4)
v “ la( : e for announcements is not
an igloo for lodgers. (6, 5)
J start a description of a dinner
I smf which I dined. (8)
makes a statement for cash.
* S Hum-dinger who snips around
the edges? (7)
./ Scandinavian Christian-name. (5)
I Yours Truly approaches the fifties
m poor health. (3)
f—Vallin cloth. (5)
Visible power of acute observa-
, tion. (7)
'"Showed off a burlesque by the
editor. (6)
'"''A lot of water at a half-century
3 caper. (8)
-'■Exist with an association before
, the Communist is invested. (11)
"Two directions about my genus
of marsh tortoises. (4)
Abyss tuned in superior attire.
4)
Down.
1— Sinful money-making concern on
a game. (9)
2 Indian doctor goes to the vora-
cious Scottish johnnie. (9)
3 Kick the bucket between the
wagon and the coves whom
Tasman had on his mind in
many places? (3, 6)
4 Every one considered single. (4)
6 Mulct the precise, formerly of
Canberra. (5)
7 Bigshot of the kirk tree. (5)
8 — Help some bookmaker’s business.
(4)
10 —Teaching that there is nothing
between an ancient entombed
Egyptian and a Victorian howler.
(8)
13— Imitate. (3)
14— Unit of work. (3)
15— Fellow who puts the stick along
the broken limb sometimes gets
under my skin. (8)
17 — Bohemian religious reformer is
to prohibit parched agriculture.
(9)
18 — Blithely, how would you get
some fires? (9)
19 — One you are to woo in a motel.
(4-5)
22 —You wouldn’t see this if it wasn’t
for this. (3)
23 —Apostrophe to Guido’s keynote
isn’t home. (3)
25 — Expensive attire in bales. (5)
26 — Such dentistry in a Macaulay
opus. (5)
27 Made-up food. (4)
29 —Black Louis of Taronga Park?
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 193


AN
IND EPENDBy r
± SERVICE Sthy sl *"
s TAT|o n
|fspj|
=*cT/
i. •' ■
' •f - *?-
£*’> /1# 1 s!
'.' rifi {;•
'
■-V- ;/*#
, »
m
■A.T
CiSi’jE'; is
111
iSs
■: :
ass
/a
wA
WsA
’
nJA
V
'W
Choice of
the People!
My
Customers
like • . .
'm<*
r an i
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATIOK
A
,min mmiid.
£
aunt it i ii tin ft**
run t i/fftit ft
U Htt W lI!!UtMUm\UIUIt
V
... mi m »»««iniiii'""^
iffti
r
5 i ;
s as;;
An*
kr
.. . *y,-. • ; ?v .:-. ' ■ •;■ ■ ; ' . .• k v ■ w- • v'’y -jy- r ' / ’
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
ALL STATES
