

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/' Vol. 73 — No. 3755
Wednesday, January 30, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE GEORGE INN,
A LONDON LINK WITH
SHAKESPEARE
TTHE last surviving galleried inn in
A London is The George, standing in
Southwark, one of the oldest parts of the
capital lying on the south bank of the
Thames and approached from the City
by way of London Bridge.
Following the destruction by fire of
the original building, The George was
rebuilt in its present form in 1676. As
was the fashion of the times, the Inn was
equipped with open galleries, or
balconies, surrounding a central court-
yard. Until the coming of the railways
this courtyard presented a busy scene,
for The George was one of the principal
starting - places ’ for coaches leaving
London for Dover. The interior of the
Inn still retains its old-world atmosphere,
for the visitor may see in the coffee-
room the old-fashioned high-backed
benches, and in the bedrooms above,
which open directly on the galleries, are
some fine old four-poster beds.
Charles Dickens, that connoisseur of
old English inns, had a special affection
for The George, and he refers to it in
his novel Little Dorrit. It was in such a
yard in Borough High Street, famous for
its inns, that Mr. Pickwick met Sara
Weller. The courtyard is the scene of
Dickens’s plays, which are given here,
and once a year a Shakespeare play is
acted from a lorry or cart, for it was in
yards such as this that many of the early
plays were performed. The most interest-
ing date of the year at The George is
Shakespeare Day, which is celebrated on
the Saturday nearest the anniversary of
Shakespeare’s birth, 23rd April, 1564.
The celebrations take the form of a
pilgrimage by the Overian Players from
Southwark Cathedral to the site of
Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre, and from
there to the yard of The George, where
scenes from the poet’s plays are acted.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON


Story Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
~”QpT HERE AND MAIL -
To STOTT’S: Please Send your Literary
Prospectus, tree and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age
The Red Page
THE NOVEL IN FRANCE.
Martin Turnbull on The Novel in
France (Hamish Hamilton) is rather like
E. M. Forster on the English novel or
Edward Sackville-West on literature in
general. It is very beautiful, very learned,
very informative, very lofty and just a
little too rarefied.
Mr. Turnbull, in fact, flies somewhat
further than Forster into the vague and
luminous reaches of the higher criticism ;
for Forster, though he thought the novel
should be “like music,” did begin with
the rueful admission that it tells a story.
But Mr. Turnbull won’t have it at all that
the novel should be “the biography of
an imaginary person” ; he is even quite
severe on the notion that it should have
to do with the portrayal of character at
all ; it is to be “an experience.”
Well, riding a bicycle is “an experi-
ence” ; and so is sitting on a nest of bull-
dog-ants ; but neither of these experi-
ences, however stirring to the emotions,
is precisely to be defined as a novel.
There is truth in what Forster says and
truth in what Mr. Turnbull says:
ultimately the effect of the novel is to
stir the mind with an emotional experi-
ence, which we may very well liken to
the effect of music. But the novel, surely,
stirs the mind in a particular way, by a
particular technique ; and that technique
is, as Forster admits, by telling a story.
And since a story will always stir the
human mind most deeply when it paints
a convincing picture of men and women
and their passions, it follows that the
novel must deal in character. If it may
also deal —since creative artists are
rightly uncontrollable—with the love-life
of frogs or the dream-life of H. C. Ear-
wicker, such flights should be regarded
as variations from the norm: which is
the dramatisation of human character in
action.
One result of Forster’s rarefied ap-
proach to the novel—it was based, of
course, on the graceful inconsequence of
his own novels other than A Passage to
India —was that he became extremely un-
kind to Dickens, whom he nevertheless
admitted was the greatest of English
novelists. He didn’t like Dickens’s
mechanical plots, which nobody does;
and he wanted the novelist to brood and
fluctuate about his characters more, and
to let them brood and fluctuate instead
of just flashing before the reader in their
brilliant and repetitive impersonations of
themselves. So he invented beautiful and
lethal phrases about “flat characters”
and “luminous disks,” and that was the
end of Dickens; except that, somehow,
Dickens remained the greatest of English
novelists.
Mr. Turnbull, similarly, is annoyed
with the greatest of French novelists,
Balzac. Balzac is a “genius,” but “I can-
not help feeling that it is Balzac’s unique-
ness rather than his achievement which
has led to an exaggerated estimate of his
work.’’ The author of Eugenie Grandet
and A Bachelor’s Establishment and
Cousin Pons, those novels so profound
in their humanity, so vivid in their
characterisation and so clear in their
understanding of the corruption of
money in modern society, had no
“coherent vision of life.” On page 214
we come to the final gravity of the charge
against Balzac; “He is strong in that
form of characterisation for which the
English have always had a pronounced
weakness.” Alas . . .
But surely if Balzac is going to remain
“possessed of genius,” as he does on that
same page, and if Dickens in spite of his
reprehensible plots and “flat characters”
is going to remain the greatest of English
novelists, the proper task of criticism- —
which is always to display an author —
is to find out where, amongst all the
faults, the genius and the greatness abide.
Forster, clearly, failed to perceive two
things about Dickens: that he conceived
his characters dramatically, presenting
them alive before the reader as on a
stage, instead of writing around them as
most novelists do; and that in doing so
he presented them in their essentials —if
they do only one thing or say only one
thing they do so because that is the only
thing really worth remembering about
them. It is, in fact, the way most of us
remember our neighbors, our friends and
relatives: the one memorable thing, the
essential thing they said or did. As the
poet Kenneth Slessor puts it: —
Your uncle, the Great Harry, left after him
The memory of a cravat, a taste in cheese,
And a way of saying “I am honoured.”
Such things, when men and beasts have
gone,
Smell sweetly to the seraphim.
Believe me, fool, there are worse gifts than
these.
So Dickens’s greatness lies just where
Forster refused to see it, in the “flat
characters” which should really be
described as characters presented in their
dramatic essentials; and Balzac’s genius
lies just where Mr. Turnbull closes a re-
proving eye: partly in the mass of his
very mixed achievement, but finally in his
supremely dynamic presentation of
character. For one outstanding example,
Phillipe, in A Bachelor’s Establishment —•
a novel Mr. Turnbull carefully excludes
from consideration.
Where you have a turning-away from
greatness you have, of course, minor
criticism. And Mr. Turnbull is also
severe on that colossus of grimy
“realism,” Zola, whom he dismisses from
his book with the remark, “In spite of
his bulk and competence 1 do not think
it can be seriously argued that he was a
great novelist,” and on Maupassant, who
—with “Madame Tellier’s Establish-
ment” surely to be ranked as one of the
most delightful “experiences” in all
literature —is waved away as “virtually
the inventor of the commercial short-
story.” Rabelais, in whom originates the
richest stream of French literature which
flows through Balzac and Maupassant to
the contemporary Gabriel Chevallier, is
quite outside Mr. Turnbull’s chosen area
of awareness..
But the present reviewer must confess,
with a brief bow in his own direction as
well as Mr, Turnbull’s, that he rather
likes criticism of this rarefied kind. It
is a point of view ; it is expressed temper-
ately, lucidly and with wit; it is exceed-
ingly impressive; there is always a
residuum of truth in it; and once you
have waved aside certain vast matters of
contention, it may be read with singular
pleasure.
How justly, for instance, after all his
questionings, Mr. Turnbull defends
Eugenie Grandet against Andre Gide:
M. Gide, we know, has complained about
the faintness of the other characters in the
book. Their limitations are due partly to
the nature of the undertaking and partly
to Balzac’s artistic shortcomings. The pic-
ture of the old servant, of mother and
daughter spending their days over their
needlework in the dim house and of the
factions between the Des Grassins and the
Cruchots seems to me admirable of its kind
and at its particular level. They have on
the whole a sufficient life to throw into
relief the activities of Grandet, and if we
are not told a great deal about them it is
largely because there is not much to tell.
How justly, again, if part of his re-
marks would be vigorously combated
by Walter Scott or Mr. Robert Graves,
with a mighty uproar from Dumas and
Victor Hugo, he joins Middleton Murry
in disapproving of Flaubert’s Salammbo,
which is not so much a novel as a gong :
Mr. Murry has well described Salammbo
as “the painful polishing of a hollow sur-
face.” Its main interest lies in the fact
that it illustrates most of Flaubert’s prin-
cipal faults and demonstrates the artistic
impossibility of the historical novel.
And how rightly once more he defends
Flaubert against the Leftist misunder-
standings of M. Sartre and Mr. Edmund
Wilson:
Mr. Edmund Wilson has discovered a
socialist Flaubert “who had observed some-
thing of which Marx was not aware.” M.
Sartre, on the other hand, produces a
bourgeois Flaubert. “I hold Flaubert and
Goncourt responsible for the repression
which followed the Commune,” he remarks,
“because they wrote not a single line to
prevent them.” While it is an encouraging
sign that Flaubert’s work still provokes
such lively discussion, the change of
emphasis is unfortunate. For a narrow,
sectarian approach, which is unable to
appreciate Flaubert’s integrity and his
single-minded devotion to his art, is scarcely
a contribution to the formation of a
“responsible literature.” Nor is it easy to
see in what way a greater infusion of
politics would have improved Flaubert’s
novels.
In the essay on Madame Bovary,
naturally the novel of Flaubert’s which
Mr. Turnbull selects to discuss at length,
there are moments when one is tempted
mildly to disagree. The scene, for in-
stance, where Rodolphe and Emma are
listening to the comments on the prize
pigs at the show, each comment arranged
by Flaubert so that it will appear to re-
fer to their liaison, which Mr. Turnbull
regards as “decidedly impressive,” may
rather be considered cheap. And per-
haps in his distaste for characterisation
Mr. Turnbull has overlooked the funda-
mental improbability of Flaubert s whole
story: for Emma really seems at once too
peevish and—oddly, considering all the
rumpus there has been about the book—
too undersexed either to win or to want
all the lovers Flaubert thrusts upon her
in his puritanic determination to destroy
her. Still, the point may be implied in
Mr. Turnbull’s insistence that Flaubert
“sacrificed far too much to his these” -7-
the maintenance of French middle-class
morality—and certainly Madame Bovary
is admirably displayed and finely
assessed;
If sheer technical power were sufficient
we should have to agree that Madame
Bovary was one of the greatest of novels.
Yet somehow we remain unconvinced by
the irony as we are unconvinced by the
pessimism. For Flaubert’s figures will not
bear the weight of the symbolism that he
tries to attach to them. We cannot fail to
notice that he was continually tipping the
scales, trying to give these sordid provincials
an importance which they were far from
possessing. What he exhibits with superb
accomplishment is in fact immature cynicism
masquerading as mature vision.
Mr. Turnbull opens his book with an
fascinating account of Choderlos de
Laclos and the Liaisons Dangereuses;
then there are Stendhal, Balzac, Flaubert
and Proust. And it must be said that, in
spite of his disapproval of “character,”
he gives as fine a disquisition on the
characters of Julien and Mathilde de la
Mole in Le Rouge et le Noir as any
admirer of Stendhal and that lovely
novel could wish for. In fact it is
distinctly an experience to read him.
U.S. Naval Novel.
In Herman Wouk’s The Caine Mutiny
(Cape; Australasian) the Caine is an old
and fictional destroyer - minesweeper
which served throughout the Pacific part
of World War 11. Her captain drives his
long-suffering executive-officer (2/i.c.) to
assume command at the height of a
typhoon, on the strength of the captain’s
deficiencies and on three articles of the
U.S. Navy Regulations permitting, under
unusual circumstances, such an unusual
step.
The captain, a paunchy, balding, unsure
character named Queeg, finds a rating
reading on-watch in harbor ; he stops his
leave for six months. (In the British Navy
the offence might rate three days.) The
captain is mistakenly left uninformed that
the movies are to be shown on board one
night; he bans all pictures for six months.
Because the water-consumption rate
had risen by 10 per cent, at anchor after
an invasion, he bans the use of water for
48 hours when a few miles from the
Equator. Because the remainder of the
wardroom’s strawberries, scrounged from
a bigger ship, disappear, he concludes
that a rating has a duplicate key to the
wardroom ice-box, orders the thousands
of keys in the ship mustered, strips every
man, searches him, then searches the
ship, where a thousand keys could have
lain undiscovered except by a blow-torch.
Of course, the wardroom mess-boys are
the culprits.
He shows cowardice in action; fear
and lack of judgment at the height of a
typhoon. To save the ship, the executive-
officer, an ex-deep-sea fisherman, relieves
the captain of his command. Naturally,
back in the States, there is a court-
martial,
A juicy and highly-explosive set of
circumstances—for a layman. To a naval
man, however, a captain like Queeg is
merely ridiculous, a comic who would
have been pulled up with a round turn at
the outset by his six-months’ punishment-
award. Provided, that is, that Wouk
knows his U.S. Navy. And as he had
four War II years in it, being himself an
executive - officer of a destroyer-
minesweeper, he should.
But improbable or extraordinary
though The Caine Mutiny seems to any-
one better acquainted with the Australian
and British navies than with the
American, it remains a very good novel,
intensely interesting, extremely well
characterised, and packed with incident
from up-anchor to decommissioning.
There is always something happening
of interest to a layman in a warship, even
without invasions, typhoons, shore-
bombardments and suicide - bombers
thrown in, and the author delves into the
Caine’s every comer. As in Monsarrat’s
The Cruel Sea, there is depicted the
constant clash of character and desires ;
in, of course, the Conrad tradition. But
when a tradition has been established it
needs a genius like the founder to improve
on it.
The climax is the court-martial. A
court-room is always an excellent venue
for good dialogue, and the author makes
the most of the material in this one-
characters whose actions were dictated
by a typhoon’s violence, with question
and answer of what went on off Okinawa
reproducing a picture of storm and •
and rain against the background of?
peaceful, secure civilian life 0 f
American city outside the court
windows. — Macnell. ' roo m
Over the Sea to Skye.
Clement Hosking, the Adelaide-bor
Sydney singer and teacher, formed a
Sydney Folk Song Choir in 1933, which
specialised in Hebridean songs sung
they used to be sung in the Hebrides*-
for instance, a waulking song was sun’
by women round a table pushing c i o i
backwards and forwards to shrink it j
1937, by then recognised as the Australia!
authority on such matters, he went to th
Hebrides, much as a mining-corn pan!
director might visit the mine— and his
report is before us in Fine Song u
Singing (Whitcombe and Tombs).
He arrived just in time. Things had
not gone well since Mrs. Marjorie
Kennedy Fraser collected her Songs 0 f
the Hebrides in 1905, in answer to an
urgent telegram asking her to get on the
job before an American collector, Ann
Murray, could publish her collection in
America.
Mr. Hosking found a little resentment
among some of the Celts—Mrs. Kennedy
they said, had taken their songs from
them and made herself a mansion out
of them. Moreover, the success of Mrs
Kennedy’s collection (not the first, but
the most popular) had brought hordes of
chiels among them, taking notes; one
lady showed the local priest a marvellous
folk-song which had given her consider-
able trouble in the transcribing, and it
turned out to be an aria by—well,
anyway, he was of Scottish descent-’
Donizetti.
However, in a small way, Mr. Hosk-
ing was■ able to - p the rot:
Here in Eriskay, which had once been
the home of some of the finest singers and
songs, there were now no outstanding
singers—if we exclude Donald Campbell,
who actually belonged to Barra. Mrs.
John Macinnes and Gillespie Macinnes were
dead, while Mary Macinnes and Ann
Macneill had long left Eriskay. Duncan
Macinnes (of sgeulachdan fame) was still
here, but he was old and sick. Some of
the most beautiful of the songs, including
“The Skye Fisher’s Song,” “The Mull
Fisher’s Song’’ and “The Love-Wandering,”
appeared to be entirely forgotten, and I
found myself teaching the islanders these
melodies which had made Eriskay famous.
The necessity for keeping the Scots
educated in their own traditions is em-
phasised by a warm and pleasant criticism
of one of Mr. Hosking’s folk-song con-
certs given in Scotland ; the reviewer of
“The Bulletin and Scots Pictorial” con-
cluded with typical Scottish honesty:
His Gaelic was good, 1 am told by
experts ... v
But it must not be thought that this is
a comic book, or that Mr. Hosking sets
out to score off the islanders or their
jongleurs; he is an enthusiast; he is
happy to be able to point out variations
and differences:
One of the airs the women sang....is
published as a “Be: Tecula Bridal Proces-
sion” in Volume II of The Songs of the
Hebrides. On this occasion the singers gave
it a spirited six-eight time, marking the
beats strongly so as to create a buoyant
rhythm. Mrs. Kennedy Fraser has put this
melody to common time, and while it makes
a lively, singable song in this form, it
cannot compare with the vitality of the
version employed by the Barra singers.
Only some of the islanders complained
about Mrs. Kennedy Fraser; in Eriskay
and Barra he found a “genuine affection
for her. And if he had to teach them
some of their own songs, they were still
able to teach him a few, of which a dozen
or so are included in the append*
words, translations and vocal line;
ballads, laments, rowing measures,
spinning-songs, lullabies—and an example
of mouth-music, generally sung not 1°
words but to syllables;
One night Alasdair Rob took me to a
dance in the schoolroom at Locheport-
There were no colorless ballroom dances,
but reels and lively strathspeys. There was
a piper; but presently he tired or becaffi
thirsty or something of the kind—pip e j)
at dancers are notoriously thirsty —and lei
us for a considerable time. During ni
absence a young fellow with a decideaiy
raucous voice leaned against the wall an
sang us dance-music for twenty minutes
a stretch. Never have I heard suen
satisfying rhythmical accompaniment to t
dance as this. Seldom have I heard su
rhythms.
For the rest, the book is a pl^
and unpretentious travelogue of .
Uist, Benbecula, Barra, Eriskay, Harry
Skye, etc.; a visit to Compton M
kenzie’s home on Barra; news
probable industrialisation of Hebn
cloth-making ; memories of the days w
landlords could throw the islanders
of their thick-walled homes, leaving
nowhere to go but the water; l e S e , J
superstitions—and everywhere a recor
warm Scottish hospitality.


%V V \
f
<
> ■
*****
r «
i
/
S' V 1
V
*4O--
mm
• . .
M
i . «
111
IMPORTED
PLANTATION CREPES
Large supplies of the famous “Cathay” Imported Casuals have
now been received. All these shoes have extra heavy
plantation finished crepe rubber soles and heels. An important
feature is the fact that these crepes are easily repairable.
Above. “Cathay” Moccasin Derby with heavy crepe coles and
heels in Tan Calf. 92/-, or in Brown Suede, priced at 85/-.
r.' ' f
y ■ r : -
i
M: '»
mm
m
ma a
t
H
(■Bi
H
k I m s
m
> i
::
■kk.' ,
Comfortable Chuhha Boots
These “Cathay” Chukka Boots have heavy
crepe rubber soles and heels. In
Tan Calf, 99/6, or Brown Suede, 85/-.
Basket Weave Derby
A most attractive shoe is this “Cathay”
Basket weave Derby in Tan Calf.
With heavy crepe rubber soles and
heels. Price, pair, 99/6.
Slip-on Casuals with
heavy crepe soles and
heels. Tan Calf, 92/-.
Brown Suede, 85/-.
A TRUTH IK ADVERTISING--
nthony Horderns
Sfii
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S SHOES—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA.


Shoeing The Devil
By OLIVER FILTER
BEN MacGOWAN was a
blacksmith and a fine
man. He was 30, tall
and powerful, with black
curly hair, brown face and teeth
which, on the rare occasions he
showed them, were hard and
white. His eyes were very dark
brown, with a quiet, waiting ex-
pression that always made you
feel it was your turn to speak
and always made you careful of
what you said.
As well as being a fine man,
he was a fine smith. The
farmers had nothing but admira-
tion for the skill with which he
shod their horses, straightened
axles or shrunk a tyre on a
wheel, while the quarrymen who
came to him for wedges or to
have their picks and pups and
jumpers sharpened all swore
that no one in the country
could shape and temper a piece
of steel as well as he could.
Which was probably true, be-
cause he learned his trade from
his father, whose skill had come
down to him from a long line
of Scottish smiths, each of whom
had hammered his creed into
his sons so that there were in-
extricably inlaid into them not
only the ability but also the
character to apply it to any and
every job beneath their hands.
Thus it seemed, as the muscles
bunched and rippled under
Ben’s sweating skin, as you saw
the red-hot steel take shape
under his hammer, saw him
heat it again in the red core of
his forge, dip it, scrape it on
the stones and watch the colors
running until it was ready to
drop into the quenching-barrel
• —it seemed, indeed, that there
was as much hereditary instinct
as knowledge in the certainty of
his movements and judgment.
IT was, therefore, not so very
remarkable that Ben should
have been the man elected to
shoe the devil. He didn’t have
to do it very often, which was a
good thing, because it was
always a fearful business. The
nature of his work, with his
almighty sweating and the heat
and dust and smell of scorching
hoof, practically demanded at
least a quart of ale daily, and
Ben normally drank just about
that much. But when he knew
the devil was coming he would
close the smithy a little early
and head for the Railway Hotel,
where the farmers and quarry-
men would be pleased to see him
and make room for him at the
bar. But as he passed from a
few cheerful pots to hunching
morosely over the counter they
would soon realise that he was
preparing himself for one of his
appointments and leave him to
himself.
After a while he would go
home, very quiet, very dark and
very moody, to the house where
he lived with his sister and her
husband and children. He
would sit to the dinner-table
without eating; just looking at
the tablecloth a few inches in
front of his plate. When every-
one else had finished and his
sister was ready to clear away
she would ask with careful
casualness, “Not hungry tonight,
Ben?” and Ben would push his
chair back without a word and
go off to his smithy, which was
an old corrugated-iron building
on the forest road on the edge
of town.
He never entered by the big
double-doors on these evenings,
but stooped through the little
side door, slamming it shut be-
hind him so that it clanged like
the gate of Hell. Soon you
would hear the clink of tongs
and tools as he got them ready
and then the growl and whine
of his forge; then a flickering
red light .would glow through
the old, dusty, smoke-grimed
window and great dark shadows
would move across it.
Presently the clang and crash
of the hammer would begin;
then the forge again; then
hammer, hammer, hammer and
the clink of steel and tongs
again ; then more forge until it
almost howled with the red light
glowing brighter, the shadows
moving faster and sparks flying
across the window. Then, as the
fury reached its peak, and white
sparks flew from the chimney
and every chink and nail-hole
in the building squirted little
spears of fiery light into the
darkness outside, it would seem
that the building itself must
burst as though it could not
contain the inferno of heat and
noise.
The climax would come with
a tremendous crash as tools and
steel were flung about and
against the iron walls of the
smithy, with Ben’s fearful shout-
ing rising above the din. Then
the big double-doors would
swing opep and he would stalk
out. For a few moments his
powerful figure would stand
there silhouetted against the
glow from the forge while the
cool night air stung into his hot
sweating skin ; then he would go
back for his saddle and bridle
and, with bit and stirrups chink-
ing in the darkness, hurry over
to his big grey horse in the pad-
dock beside the smithy. There
would be a few soft words and
the creak of leather, and then
the thud of hooves as Ben and
his horse disappeared at a wild
gallop along the forest road.
NEXT morning the smithy
would look as though the
devil had been there —racks of
horseshoes torn down and scat-
tered about the place ; hammers,
tongs, rasps, spikes and other
tools thrown everywhere, and
the quenching-barrel overturned
so that the water made little
dusty pools between the smooth
stones that served for a floor.
There were footprints in the
bush, too: stories from home-
going farmers and farm-
workers of how “that mad smith
on his bloody great horse tried
to ride me down in the dark” ;
of peaceful cows and horses
startled into mad galloping
panic; of yelping dogs and
silent poultry-runs suddenly
turned into squawking feathered
frenzies.
But there was very little
animosity. Most of the people
who took work to Ben liked to
be friendly with him, and, any-
way, the “Did I?” or “I’m
sorry” with which he invariably
replied to any odd comments
which seemed to need an
answer was always remarked
with such lack of expression
that there was really very little
else to be said. Even his sister,
who sometimes ventured a soft
“You were drunk last night,
Ben,” could never think of much
to add after his customary
understatement: “Well, I did
have a drink or two.”
Actually, most of the people
in the town derived some kind
of vicarious thrill from Ben’s
occasional outbursts. No one
seemed to know who first dis-
covered that he shod the devil,
but, op the evenings that he did
and the noise from his smithy
disturbed the town, practically
anyone would tell you, almost
with a suggestion of civic pride,
“There’s young Ben Mac-
Gowan clapping another set of
shoes on Old Nick.”
AT least, that was the feeling
until the Honey Rielly
affair, which had its beginnings
on the night that the devil was
a little late and Ben a little
cranky. He had already shaped
one shoe, and was forming the
other over the horn of the anvil,
when the devil arrived. If you
hadn’t expected him you might
not have known he was there
because his great hairy loins
>yere lost in the shadows behind
the forge, his eyes looked like
the flying white sparks and,
through the smoke, his great
shining body reflected the red
light and glinted like the steel
tools that hung around the
forge. But Ben knew without
looking. “You’re late,” he
shouted. “Where’ve you been?”
“Working,” the devil said in
a voice that was large enough to
save him from shouting.
“Who was it?”
“I never discuss my
customers. It’s the best way to
lose business. You want to
remember that.”
“I know; I know,” said Ben.
“Come round here and let’s get
started.”
Half the shadows and flicker-
ing lights in the smithy seemed
to leap and move as the devil
came round to the forge and
sat on the anvil. Ben seized
one of the tremendous legs and
tore the old shoe off. Then the
other. He pared and rasped the
hooves and then, because the
devil liked it that way, took a
hot shoe from the forge.
“Make sure it’s hot,” the devil
said.
“It’s hot,” said Ben. He let
it sear into the hoof, nailed it
on with swift heavy blows, and
then cut and clinched down the
nails where they stuck through
the front of the hoof. He took
another shoe from the forge and
picked up the second leg.
The devil looked at Ben’s bent
figure, then at his newly-shod
hoof, and then pressed it care-
fully and accurately on to Ben’s
bottom. “Do you call that
hot?” he demanded.
Ben leaped and roared with
pain and flung his hammer
against the wall of the smithy.
Then he went on bellowing and
hurling his tools around until
he decided to dip his behind into
the quenching-barrel.
“You didn’t have to do that,”
he said sulkily.
The devil shouted with
laughter. “You dance better
than I can,” he said. “Now
come on and make sure the next
one’s hot.”
But Ben kept his bottom in
the quenching-barrel and said,
“No, blast you. You’re too
rough.”
“Ah, come on, Ben ; I was
only playing. Tell you what.
I’ll do you a favor. Just one.”
Now a favor from the devil
was a big thing. His agreement
with the MacGowans merely
stipulated that as long as they
shod him and shod him well
their line and their skill would
go on. It was not spoken or
written, of course, but it was
understood.
Ben came slowly over to the
forge. “Anything I want?” he
asked.
“Don’t be silly,” said the
devil. “I’ve got your interests
at heart. If I think it’s good
for you, you can have it.”
“Let me marry Honey Rielly
then,” said Ben.
“Don’t be an idiot,” the devil
roared.
“Why not? You can do it.”
“Of course I could do it. But
I won’t. Oh, I’ll give you Honey
Rielly all right, but not for a
wife. There’s no breeding there ;
no stock. I’ll find you a wife
when you’re ready. Remember
your brats are going to shoe me
long after you’re gone. Now
get on with the job, and we’ll
go for a gallop.”
THERE was nothing strange
about Ben wanting Honey
Rielly except that she seemed
utterly unattainable. She was
the draper’s daughter and the
beauty of the town, a lovely
eager creature with fresh clear
skin and full red lips which
always seemed to be on the
verge of smiling. There was an
emotional warmth about her; a
kind of urgent intensity which,
in whatever cause she took up,
from lame dogs to impoverished
widows, was quite irresistible
and generally infectious.
She was, of course, pursued
by most of the young men of
the town, but the sentimentality
of young swains seemed ridi-
culous in the light of her direct
vitality, which was equally im-
penetrable to the more calcu-
lating advances of older and less
sentimental males. It was
generally opined that, if she
didn’t marry into one of the best
families, she would go off with
some wealthy visitor and settle
in more select parts. She
was as far from Ben and the full-
bosomed, bold-eyed wenches he
knew as were the mayoral robes.
Not that she hadn’t seen Ben
often enough and heard that he
shod the devil from time to
time, but she had never paid any
particular attention to him.
Then, in the inexplicable way
such things happen in a woman’s
mind, she was suddenly aware
of him one day when she called
to collect her hack after it had
been shod. Possibly she saw in
him another cause to be
adopted; possibly she was in-
trigued by his dark, silent
manner ; most likely, even if she
never knew it, she was seeing
for the first time his black curly
hair and white teeth, and the
muscles and tremendous mascu-
linity of his bare chest and
shoulders.
Whatever it was, she stopped
as she was about to leave the
smithy after paying him and
watched him working for a
moment. Then she said, “I be-
lieve you shoe the devil, Mr.
MacGowan?” It was a carefully-
judged opening, slightly and pos-
sibly unconsciously condescend-
ing, and sufficiently bantering to
leave her a quick way out.
BEN rested his hammer on
the anvil. He was bait for
no one, and when he replied
there were level strength in his
voice and a humor that took him
safely above any suggestion of
superiority on her part.
“You shouldn’t have any
doubts about that. Miss Rielly,”
he told her.
Honey sensed that she had
miscalculated her man and
dropped any hint of condescen-
sion from her manner. “And
why should he come to you in
particular?”
“You should know that, too.
Aren’t I the best smith in the
country, just like my father was?
Clootie’s always come to us for
shoes.”
A laugh broke through
Honey’s veil of mockery; she
was delighted and delightful.
“Tell me; what’s he like?,”
Ben was admiring her now
and wanted to see her laugh
again and see the movement of
her head and neck. “Oh, he’s a
fine chap. A great big feller
with red eyes and muscles like
melons and big hairy legs like
a horse.”
“That sounds terrific. What’s
he do all the time?”
Just gallops around looking
for people who don’t behave.”
“That must be dangerous.
What’s he do to them?'’
There was a shade of fine
dark insolence in Ben’s eyes as
he looked at her figure. “All
sorts of things.”
“Such as?”
“That depends.”
“On what?”
“Oh, the person, the time and
the place.”
Honey changed the subject.
“Is he very hard to shoe?”
Ben sensed the shift of her
mind and made her laugh again.
“Not for me. I use special steel
for the shoes and nail ’em on
red-hot. He sits on the anvil
here so I can watch ’em cooling
off and then he jumps clean into
the quenching-barrel to temper
’em good and hard.”
“That sounds exciting. Could
I see him?”
“That depends, too.”
“Yes?”
“On you.”
Honey laughed and said
“We’ll see” and went for her
horse ; Ben shoved the cold iron
back into the forge.
She was back the next day with
a broken gate-hinge, and the
day after that, and for the rest
of the week. They played the
same teasing game, but there
were deeper, half-formed ideas
behind it—a feeling-out of
strengths with a touch of reck-
lessness on Honey’s part and a
note of challenge from Ben.
ON Friday Ben closed early
and went off to the Railway
Hotel, and by eight o’clock the
noise of his hammering came
from the smithy. Honey
saddled her horse and led it by
the back-streets to the shadow
of the trees beside the road near
the smithy. She heard the iron
crash and saw the sparks flying
and had almost decided to go
home when the big doors swung
open and Ben came out wiping
the sweat from his bare chest.
He disappeared for a minute,
and, before she was ready for
it, his big grey horse galloped
from the paddock and tore past
her.
She kicked her bay hack on to
the road and followed a few
hundred yards behind and un-
able to catch up. They raced
along the road for over a mile,
the hooves pounding up clouds
of dust that settled like white
mist where the moonlight broke
through the shadows of the arch-
ing trees. They woke and passed
three farms before Ben pulled
his horse from the road to the
old sandy fisherman’s track that
led down to the beach under the
cliffs.
He went more easily over the
uncertain ground, but his horse
was still sweating and blowing
when he slipped off it and stood
on the white sand near the
water. His own shoulders were
heaving and falling as he took
long breaths.
Honey allowed the bay to pick
its way more carefully down to
the beach and slid down from its
back a few yards from where
Ben was waiting. She was
breathless and aching a little
from the ride. “That was abso-
lutely marvellous,” she said.
And then, trying but failing to
assume that safe bantering tone,
“But I didn’t see the devil.”
“You were too far behind ; he
always takes the lead,” Ben told
her, also without humor and
almost absently. His eyes
seemed nearly black.
“Will I see him?” she asked,
trying to keep the conversation
on the same level, but unable to
conceal her nervous excitement.
“You might,” he said. ‘lts
the time and place.” His naked
shoulders seemed even broader
in the moonlight, and there was
a soft confidence in his voice that
reminded her of the certain!}
(i Continued on page 17.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3755
Wednesday, January 30, 1952
THE HERETIC.
“The president of the A.C.T.U., A. E. Monk, has been attacked by the A.W.U. and ‘Labor’ members of Parliament for co-operating with the Government in its anti
inflation campaign. There has been a clash over the question of whether ‘a depression’ has already begun in Australia.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H, K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
STRANGLED SHIPPING.
Having surveyed the scene offered by
Australia’s shipping ports large and
small, Mr. Henry Bolton Basten, the
Commonwealth Government’s special
investigator, of wide experience in port
organisation and management in Britain
and the Middle and Far East, has written
a report of doggedly restrained damnation
on the state of the wharves (which
remains that of a couple of generations
ago), the discipline in the industry on
all sides (which is nil), the chaos of a
multitude of authorities (which suggests
that there is relative order in a rabbit-
warren), and the appalling waste of
working hours (limited as they are), the
clogging of shed-space, the restrictive
practices (which the Government’s S. I.
Bqard is content to contemplate in yoga
attitudes), and the general decay of
management in cargo operations. A key
sentence is this:
If the watersider concludes that the em-
ployer in the industry is a legal fiction,
he may be very close to the truth.
The report surely tells Australian Gov-
ernments nothing new about the condi-
tions prevailing. They must be as well
known as summer sharks, bushfires,
strikes, the wealth of bookmakers and
the perennial effort of politicians to
combat inflation by raising their own
salaries. As for this matter of inflation,
it may be said with confidence that no
single factor is more responsible for
boosting prices out of sight than the
horrible waste of time and money in
handling all trading cargoes in Aus-
tralian ports. When to the decay of
maritime transport under Government-
run handling of ships and cargoes are
added the deterioration and bankruptcy
of State railways and the imminent
breaking-up of main roads under the
burden thrown on to motor transport of
carrying much freight that ships and
railways ought to handle, there is clear
warning that development of Australia,
whatever the opportunity offering, can
hardly be possible until the basic trans-
portation services are reorganised to do
their job.
But if the Basten report tells the Com-
monwealth Government —and all Aus-
tralian Governments —nothing new, it
lays down very clearly what ought to be
done, and its inculpation of the whole
lot of them for the past 25 years is
conveyed with a subtlety which, it is to
be hoped, will not merely blunt itself on
sundry pachydermous political hides.
Presumably Mr. Basten regarded it as
waste of time to suggest that the Shipping
Board and the Stevedoring Industry Board
should be abolished ; but of the latter he
at least says that it ought to be entirely
reorganised and composed of a
triumvirate (representative of both sides
in industry and of the Commonwealth
Government) who have no connection
with the waterfront. He might also have
produced some entertaining paragraphs —
the temptation must have been great —
on the Australian characteristic of con-
fusing every major national enterprise,
from Parliamentary government down-
wards, with a complexity of authorities
so that reform becomes barely possible
without abolishing the lot and starting
afresh.
In Australian ports, where the cargo-
moving confusion was likened by one
Australian commentator last year to “a
deep-freeze of congealed and irrespon-
sible procedures,” the list of “controlling”
authorities includes;
The State Maritime Harbor Trusts
(variously named), which own the ports
and the wharves, wharf-sheds and
mechanical equipment (if any).
The shipowners, whose ships are simply
taken out of their hands, except insofar
as they own the stevedoring companies.
The stevedoring companies, who employ
the wharfies, and in many cases appear to
regard character in a foreman as super-
fluous.
The Stevedoring Industry Board, omni-
present, which rosters men for the work
and is supposed to discipline them when
necessary.
The Customs, who can and often do
perform as though theirs was the overall
command in a land of lots of time (and
highly expensive time, too).
The Waterside Workers’ Federation,
whose guiding principle is to show any
other authority which thinks it is the boss
just where that authority gets off.
The 5.1.8. in its last published annual
report, noticed in these columns six
months ago, calmly stated that in the
realm it is supposed to control there are
wasted annually 9,000,000 hours in
loafing on the wharves, all paid for as
hours worked. The lax discipline which
accounted for this disgraceful state of
affairs permitted playing cards and fish-
ing during working hours, absence with-
out employer’s knowledge and without
being reported absent when he did know,
drunkenness while supposed to be on the
job and listed as “ceased work because
ill” and men “coming and going as they
like.”
This was the 5.1.8.’s sob-story
about its own defective functioning. Its
alibi was —and the Bastcn report reserves
its chief castigation for the management,
not the union—that employers’ foremen
apparently didn’t care, that importers
who owned the cargoes didn’t care
because they blocked work constantly
by refusing to clear the sheds for
weeks on end, that the harbor authorities
didn’t care (being “the Government”) as
long as all this bumped up the revenue
from port charges. Mr. Basten, in polite
language, does not neglect the obvious
question—“ But why didn’t the 5.1.8.
care?”
The Commonwealth Government is
reported to be highly pleased with the
report—naturally, since the report says
nothing about that Government’s tolera-
tion of a month’s “sympathetic” hold-up
of the Aorangi by the Seamen’s Union
last year before it got down to ordering
a Navy crew to take the ship away, at
which point the “black” ban was
promptly declared off.
Mr. Basten’s recommendations for
short-term action against this port stagna-
tion are as simple as commonsense itself.
Any experienced businessman not com-
pletely browned-off by Government
interference could have written them
without difficulty. He urges that the
5.1. should be made to do its job; that
the wharfies should work and be paid
as in any other industry—as permanent
employees and not casuals; that the
harbor authorities should insist on all
cargoes being removed from wharf-
sheds after a maximum of three days ;
that if the W.W.F, prevents the registra-
tion (as it has done) of a sufficient
number of workers at any main port the
5.1. should, under Section 27(2) of the
Act outlining its duties, employ
unregistered men outside the union; that
employers should co-operate to “pool
ships” for flexibility of working in cases
where temporarily gangs prove to be
inequitably distributed, and that they
should furnish accounts of “wages paid
in excess of time men have actually
worked,” so that the 5.1.8. may repay
such excess costs to individual employers,
recovering them by a general levy.
Finally he says that the local authorities
have all got plans for improving port
facilities, and that if the ports are to
revive from the neglect of the past 20
years, let alone prepare for the increased
business required by a rising population,
those authorities had better get on with
the job. But improving the ports is
distinctly second, on a short-term plan of
action, to “preventing,” as Mr. Basten
says, “further decay in the functions of
management.”
Australia has now had a whole series
of independent recommendations on how
to get more coal (only the railways and
the port of Newcastle can’t handle more),
on the ports (where practically nothing
has been done since the Buchanan report
of 30 years ago), and on inefficiency in
the railways and powerhouses (which
State “Labor” Governments have simply
ignored as unacceptable to the unions).
For all this neglect the community is
paying heavily in costs of everything it
eats, wears and uses. But at least it ought
now to see clearly why and how.
REPORT ON KOREA.
II. —The Man At Arms.
(By a BULLETIN writer just returned.)
At all seasons the Korean climate is bad
—hot and dusty in summer, bitterly cold
and dusty and snowy in winter, a sea of
freezing mud in the thaw. The landscape
mainly consists of an awful maze of single
hills, jagged and barren, which make it
almost impossible to establish a con-
tinuous defence for even 10 miles at a
time on a natural line of features ; and
that is very much the soldier’s as well as
the command’s worry. But for all this
the war differs from past wars in that
the command has achieved standards
unbelievable to those who fought in
1916. It takes four days merely to fit a
draft of 100 Australians into the “wet-
cold” clothing in which, though warm to
his toes, he goes to the front (as described
by one of his brigadiers) looking very
much like “a spotted elephant s stern.
The soldier in winter seems to put on,
indeed, as much clothing as any three men
in any other war.
Here is what he wears:
A pair of plastic ski boots with warmable
metal insole; three pairs of woollen socks,
two pairs of heavy woollen underpants; one
pair of woollen pyjama underpants from
waist to ankle; one pair of thick overpants ,
one string singlet to shrug off P^spiration,
two heavy woollen singlets; a North hea
fisherman’s jersey; a windbreaker cotton
camouflaged suit with hooded cape; a cap
comforter which may warm his ears or lorm
a nightcap; a ski cap; a padded or furred
parka which zippers down from neck to
thigh; a heavy scarf and arm mittens, and
three pairs of gloves.
For really rough weather he has a
weatherproof poncho, usable as a
groundsheet, two capable of being turned
into a pup-tent.
Fitted out and taught to carry this
formidable but light and durable armor
against the weather, the man-at-arms of
1952 has none of the travel anxieties
either coming in or out of the war zone
that beset his father or grandfather. To
him the phrase “quarante hommes, huit
chevaux” means nothing at all. When
he has done his month’s training and
conditioning at the Hiro depot in Japan
he is filed into a R.A.A.F. aircraft and
flown to Seoul, within 30 or 40 miles of
his battle position.
The flight of 500 miles or so takes
him under three hours direct in a Dakota.
It is probably made at 10,000 ft. above the
overcast. Sometimes he has to face a
blizzard on the way, so that ice breaks off
the propellers with disturbing noises, and
sometimes he is landed on G.C.A.—a
radar ground-control approach, which
helps to talk aircraft down through the
cotton-wool. If he sees the landscape it
is not engaging—about as desolate a strip
of craggy red-yellow mountain and bare
river-flat as it would be possible to find
this side of Arabia Petra.
At Seoul he meets his first real signs
of war. That huge city is blacked out,
its only power carried by lines laid along
the tops of the pollarded trees in the
streets from a power-ship at Inchon 15
miles away. He will see that most main
buildings are intact, that the place is
entirely military, but there are great
bombed and battered areas. He will note
that the Americans live in steam-heated
buildings and drive in steam-heated
motor-cars, but if he gets a glimpse of his
own Australian C.-in-C.’s quarters he will
find him in a looted legation in which
the standard legation furniture from
Maples has been partly replaced by a
few haphazard but valuable Imperial
pieces loaned by the mayor of Seoul,
and conducting the sanitary and toilet
operations of the High Command with
the aid of a kerosene-tin full of water.
From Seoul he will go to the front,
half a day’s journey, along the dusty road
to the wide, half-frozen Imjin River.
It is so dusty that all vehicles run in the
day-time with headlights. One of the
pointing-finger correspondents who have
recently written books about Korea has
accused the Americans in an earlier day
of running down Koreans on the roads,
and the arriving warrior of today will
feel this probable. He will note that the
first impulse of many Koreans, even after
a year of enlightenment, is to step straight
in front of any vehicles which happen to
be approaching. He will also note that
though there is a speed limit of 20 miles
an hour enforced with the greatest
strictness by teeming American M.Ps.,
it is often difficult in the dust-cloud to
avoid running over four-ton trucks, much
less small Koreans.
He winds past convoys, past control-
posts, through the long, scarred,
tidied-up valley where the Gloucesters
and the Ulsters were cut up in April. He
is presently fitted into a company and
into his position in the line. He will
find his mates nearly all healthy and
active, and with no wants except, perhaps,
rum and candles, and no grievances save
inactivity. He will, even if he is in
reserve as the Australian Royal
Battalion is at present, be within range
of enemy guns and of enemy attack, so
that he will find himself sheltered at
night under a precautionary 4ft. of
earth. He will find that the rations run
to beer but no spirits, and hot meals
even during normal fighting. He will
find that there is plenty of food and
plenty of warmth. Woe betide his
company-commander if there isn’t.
The terrain in which he lives is much
like Turkey-in-Asia. Its basic plain is
along the broad Imjin River and is about
at sea-level. Out of this river-flat rise
seemingly innumerable elevated and
isolated features, some saw-top hills like
a congealed Bondi wave, some rough,
narrow plateaux a few miles long. They
range from 120 metres or so to 360
metres in the Australian-area vicinity.
The snow from Christmas is still on
the ground. The morning temperature is
a bit above zero. Each hill-top position
has to be reached by a stiff climb up
anything from 100 to 200 steps or their
equivalent. The steps are iced-up. At
the top the soldier will discover a shallow
trench system, with bunkered rat-
holes in which those actually in the line
for the time being live—square caves
approached by a narrow entrance drain-
ing outwards, with shelves above floor-
level in the sides for possessions. There
is a suitable series of m.-g. tunnels placed,
if possible, to command the faces of the
hill. The steep, shrubby hillsides, the
vegetation of which looks so like that
of Anatolia, is mined to the teeth. There
are wire aprons beyond the minefields.
Looking out —cautiously avoiding the
skyline on which a man seems like a
mountain in the cold air—the soldier
sees in front of him a long, low valley
plain which is no-man’s-land, bound in
by hills covered by scrubby growth—
there are no real trees.
On some small eminence in the plain
there will be an outpost. On the flanks
on the hills he will see the positions of
British regiments which are forward of
the reserve line and covering the
approaches to his position. Behind, firing
over him, the Long-Tom 155’s sound off
every minute or so, joined in periodic
chorus by the slam and rumble of the
Sin. “Persuaders.” Every now and then
in the intermittent silences one may hear
a thin, small pop in the valley which
announces the fact that somebody is
shooting pheasant.
If the day is busy there may be a
spectacular strafe to be seen only a
couple of miles away following a visit by
a nosing little spotter-plane. Or there
may be some diversion in watching the
South Koreans getting and giving curry
on a neighboring range.
On the whole, the Royal Australian
will find life in reserve at this juncture
little different from the life of the Welch
Regiment, the Leicesters, the Royal
Norfolks and the R.O.K.S. and the
Canadians, who are up forward in the
line, some with their frontal posts
pushed right into the enemy’s teeth, and
their Centurion tanks sitting like fat
grey-green spiders right under his ear
ready to crack anything Chinese or North
Korean which so much as flicks a
whisker.
At times, later, the soldier will of
course have to fight, and fight hard and
desperately. But he will fight as a fit
man, well fed and warm and equipped
to the last bullet and button. He will not
be hampered with trench-feet or frost-
bite, for such matters are so rigidly
policed that a couple of frost-bites in a
company means an interview for the
company-commander with the Divisional
G.O.C.
If the soldier is wounded he will not
be allowed to lie long on the hillside.
Blood and plasma await him at once;
the grand Norwegian Hospital whose flag
flies on the fringes of the British
Divisional area, or some other surgical
unit, will be ready to attend to him
promptly after he has been lifted swiftly
off the battlefield—by helicopter if neces-
sary. If he needs real hospitalisation he
will find himself being tended in a matter
of a few hours by the pretty, blue-clad
Canadian nurses of the Commonwealth
Hospital at Kure or perhaps even in
Tokyo. The Allied air-services lifted
their 200,000 th wounded man at
Christmas-time.
If he isn’t wounded, in due course he is
flown to Tokyo for five days’ rest and
recreation every four months, and for
three weeks every eight months. And he
is not expected to serve in the war area
for more than a year.
The one matter which grieves and
worries the soldier in Korea is
psychological. What is he fighting for,
and why is he there? It is impossible for
his leaders involved in the vast strategy
of the potential threshold of World
War 111 to explain to him clearly and to
endow him with purpose.
Indeed, they seem to find difficulty in
explaining to themselves where Korea
belongs in the structure of the great de-
fence arc which sweeps from Canada down
through the Arctic and Japan Seas where
the Sunderlands and the Mariners patrol,
through the 140 miles of fighting front
along the 38th Parallel, through busy,
teeming Okinawa and Formosa, through
the Indo-China front, where 200,000 men
hold back the Communist tide, through
the flurried, incessant skirmishing against
Communist insurgents in Malaya, in the
Philippines, through Burma and India
and Pakistan and Persia and the Canal
Zone, and along the troubled Black Sea
and Danube, where Turk and Yugoslav
face the Iron Curtain, to the defence
region of the N.A.T.O. Powers in Western
Europe. .
All that they can tell the soldier is that
he is fighting to keep South Korea free
in accordance with the principles of the
United Nations. And that, in a well-fed
and formalised war in which all color


is banalised under absurd initials and
rationalised with the gabble of the
attendant planners, is thoroughly uncon-
vincing. What could be more unsatisfy-
ing than to fight as a part of EUSAK
(Eighth U.S. Army of Korea) for the
“principles of UNO,” while an ardent
organisation called UNCACK vies
with UNCURK and UNKRA m
looking after what all describe as
“civilian population” —that part of the
Asian human races about which, a New
York “Times” correspondent remarked
to me, the planners and statesmen have
discovered everything except that they
are just people with minds, souls and
appetites like ourselves?
It is no wonder that the soldier living
his monotonously- and sedulously-
groomed life finds himself puzzled. It is
hard to bring it home to him that he is
defending his country and family in the
Korean struggle just as surely as if the
guns were heard in Darwin, especially
since there is no national appreciation of
this fact in Australia, scarcely one of
whose 8,000,000-odd people could name
the engagement round Hill 317 last
October in which their own Royal
Regiment won undying glory and the
right to wear the American Presidential
flash.
But let no young fighting Australian
make any mistake about where he fits
into the world picture. The Korean
force is somewhat in the position of the
“six-bob tourists” of late-1914 and early-
-1915 who were little regarded by their
compatriots except as shrewd-heads who
had found themselves a free trip abroad,
but who are now esteemed above all other
Australian soldiers as those who were
first on the scene when the Great Fire
began to burst its bounds and whose
names are eternally linked with Anzac.
The men in the trenches and bunkers
of Korea today, cursing the cold, cursing
the long inaction that goes with the
“Peace Talks,” may live to see the word
Korea written down as an honored name
if all efforts fail to stave off World
War 111, which in Asia seems already in
being. No man who enlists for the
Korean front need doubt the need or the
urgency of the call for his services there
in the interests of the security of his own
country. He will there be guarding our
most far-flung outpost.
EK DUM.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Basic-wage Boil-up.
It seems only a question of time before
the system under which quarterly basic-
wage rises will (in the words of one
manufacturers’ representative) “strangle
our competition with other countries.”
The machine is out of control.
“Labor’s” political leader, breaking a
considerable silence when he appeared
before the A.W.U. convention, had no
advice to offer. The Commonwealth
Government recognises that any action
within its limited constitutional powers
would involve it in coercion of the Arbi-
tration Court and refuses that impro-
priety. Spokesmen for employers describe
the problem as “basic-wage madness.”
Every responsible union official regards
the rises as calamitous, because (they
say) wages are lagging behind costs of
living, which every quarterly rise boosts
again.
The Prime Minister, some manufac-
turers and Mr. Monk of the A.C.T.U.
have stated beliefs that the rises are
showing signs of “flattening out,”
“Labor”-member Crean, of Melbourne
Ports (House of Reps), says some change
in approach to assessing the basic wage
is “undoubtedly needed.” The McGirr’s
lugubrious Prices Minister Finnan, who
saluted the previous quarterly rise (14s.
in N.S.W.) as excessive, complained that
the latest rise (95.) “astounded” him in
its inadequacy—and this although he
regards the quarterly adjustments as
“robbing the workers and their families
just as much as any blackmarketeer or
racketeer.”
The N.S.W. Industrial Commission has
ruled that the £1 basic-wage increase
awarded in 1950 was not related to the
cost of living but is a marginal increase,
and that the basic wage now contains an
amount which has nothing to do with
cost of commodities.
Yet no one political party anywhere
dare intervene to try to abolish the
system. Of all methods of political
suicide this would be one of the surest,
if only for the reason that all parties
have recognised the proper authority
in this jurisdiction as the Arbitration
Court. Indeed, the court has expressly
accepted its position in the land as the
“industrial legislature” to deal with this
problem.
That being so, the conference of both
sides in industry due to reassemble on
Monday week next before Chief Judge
Kelly of the Arbitration Court should
fairly be confronted with this question
of ways and means to reform the wage-
structure as well as with the original
and allied subject of standard weekly
hours. At the private discussions on
December 20 last, then adjourned for
mature consideration by each side, the
Chief Judge left with employers’ and
unions’ representatives a series of ques-
tions which he specified as involved in
the hours dispute —including increased
man-hour production (as the only counter
to short supplies and the inflation result-
ing), incentive-payments, and co-opera-
tion by both parties to stabilise prices
and wages (not necessarily, he explained,
freezing them at present levels). It was
clearly from the union side, especially
the ironworkers’ and certain other
militant-union spokesmen, that the matter
of the wage-structure was introduced
into the December discussions; and
some unions, ignoring the need for higher
production as a backing, demanded
immediate raising of the basic wage by
another 10s., monthly variations instead
of quarterly, and present margins for
skill to be doubled.
Both sides in industry ought to
abandon the stupid selfishness or hostility
which this sort of proposal exemplifies,
and appreciate their common interest in
a reorganisation of the structure of hours
and wages which will give stability to
Australia’s economy and assure employ-
ment. There might be considerably
brighter chances of such agreement if all
political parties would co-operate in
urging upon the employers and unions the
primary responsibility upon industry to
find a workable settlement. Failing that,
the Commonwealth Government should
call upon the Arbitration Court to assert
its authority to the utmost.
"Labor" Mountain Erupts.
What the A.W.U, thinks of “Labor”
politicians was shown when its con-
vention at Mackay (N.Q.) incontinently
fired Mr. Clyde Cameron (“Labor”
Member of Parliament for Hindmarsh,
and its own S.A. branch president) on the
grounds that it could not stand politicians
holding union offices.
The business which absorbed the con-
vention’s opening days was the state of
the “Labor” soul of A.C.T.U.’s Albert
Monk, the more so since the A.C.T.U.,
and indeed the Victorian A.L.P. execu-
tive^ —both now, incidentally, exhibiting a
record high level of anti-Communist
sentiment —have incurred the mighty
A.W.U.’s enmity. A.W.U. president
Davis (Riverina) was dropped some time
ago from the Victorian A.L.P.’s Senate
selection list, and apparently this effort
to keep president Davis fit for
A.W.U. office has created bitter feelings
in the union’s higher ranks, Which the
rejected Clyde Cameron, doubtless
muttering “revenge” as the late Ted
Theodore once did, must regard as a use-
ful weapon in lively exchanges to come.
The A.W.U. has parted brass-rags
with Melbourne “Labor,” too, over the
matter of the Victorian political party’s
continued support of the minority
Country-party Government under Mr.
McDonald. President Davis wanted the
McDonald crowd thrown out; “Labor”
leader Cain refused, Dr. Evatt’s requests
having prevailed with him that he should
keep the sorry thing in office in order
to annoy the Menzies-Faddens. This
also is a peculiar activity in a leading
A.W.U. executive official whose newly-
discovered party creed is that for such
an official to interest himself in
Parliamentary business is to defile
himself.
The quarrel with the A.C.T.U., with
which the A.W.U. has persistently re-
fused to affiliate, is of long standing.
When secretary Dougherty accepted an
invitation to visit the 1950 A.F. of L. con-
vention in U.S.A., the A.C.T.U. declined
a similar invitation to its own represent-
ative. Now the two bosses —Monk and
Dougherty—are fighting for the leader-
ship of trade-union control of the de-
moralised political wing of “the move-
ment,” The Mackay convention rang
with Mr. Dougherty’s denunciations of
Mr. Monk for agreeing with Mr.
Menzies (and others) that “depression
talk” was premature, and Mr. Monk re-
joined with some acid remarks that the
loss of some few hundred A.W.U.
seasonal jobs in N. Queensland was no
evidence of a depression. Now Mr.
Monk has said (like Mr, Menzies and a
few others) that the basic-wage quarterly
increase shows signs of a possible check
to the inflationary trend. That looks like
adding fuel to the fire.
The convention leaders were exceed-
ingly angry with Mr. Monk. Said
secretary Dougherty:
The truth is Mr. Monk has been
Australia so frequently in the last two
years that it is difficult to say he has any
real knowledge of the Australian set-«P;
If he is going to continue as an apologist
for the anti-“r,abor” Government the
trade-union movement will have to place
him in his correct category.
To this N.S.W. secretary Oliver
added; —
Mr. Monlewis a bad man, but not as bad
as AX.P. Federal president Ferguson, who
was recently reported as saying that it
“liabor” were in office it would have to do
all the things the Menzies Government is
doing.
And when secretary Dougherty followed
this with an attack on the McGirr Gov-
ernment for not abolishing the N.S.W.
Leg. Council (thronged with Sydney
union secretaries), the same Mr.
Ferguson, M.L.C., retorted that Mr.
Dougherty’s grievance was that he had
not got elected to it himself.
Dr. Evatt is said to be growing daily
more and more pleased with his job.
The Hope of Bureaucracy.
A certain amount of joyful anticipation
is apparent on the bureaucratic front just
now, where ex-controllers, controllers and
would-be controllers are licking their
chops over the prospect of food-rationing
—a prospect seriously suggested by some
newspaper writers and sundry other per-
sons. ,
Food-rationing! In a country whicn
could feed five times its present popula-
tion and still have some to spare! They
know little of Australia who threaten
its people with short rations, though they
might know something of its politics, its
overcrowded cities and its “controllers.
Most of the current noise about alleged
food shortages wells out of Sydney, which
is crammed with people too foolish to
realise that they’d be better off somewhere
else, whose population is in the grip of
the worst Government and the biggest
food-rackets which ever afflicted an Aus-
tralian community, which has a popula-
tion completely out of balance with its
hinterland and completely out of touch
with the soil, and yet is comforted with
lotteries and beaches and dog-racing and
promises, and which, despite its alleged
miseries, is generally better fed and better
clothed and better paid than any other
British community.
Sydney, to use a popular idiom, is “a
soda” for bureaucrats. They blossom all
over it. They control its eating and
drinking, its travelling, its working hours,
its trading hours, its education and enter-
tainment, the bringing-in and distribution
of its foodstuffs. Is it any wonder that
the bureaucrats shiver with delighted
anticipation over the prospect of ration-
ing food, thus spreading from Sydney to
the rest of the country the blight of their
authority?
Lenin said that food-rationing puts a
people at the mercy of a Government.
We know, or should know, the kind of
government he meant.
Since the days of war-time controls
these bureaucrats of ours have never given
up hope that somehow, some day, they
will get their grip on our lives again. To
submit to food-rationing when a large
proportion of the food troubles in our
big cities is caused by Government
“board” controls is really asking for it —
Australia could not make a greater
mistake.
Handcuffs Needed.
Britain and the Western world cannot
much longer tolerate what is going on in
Cairo and the Canal Zone, where British
forces, legally under treaty guarding a
communications-jine of the utmost
importance to the safety of the free
world, have been alerted against air-
attack by the Egyptian Air Force, which
is armed, like the Egyptian Army, with
British equipment.
The disturbances in Ismailia on
January 25, when it needed 1500 British
troops, backed with artillery and tanks,
to subdue and capture 1000 Egyptian
police who had been co-operating with
the rabble mob in disturbance and
assassinatjon, came near to full-scale
warfare. And the riots in Cairo, which
culminated in the burning of Shepheard’s
Hotel and the sacking of the Turf Club
with the murder or carrying-off of
Britons, including Mr. Boyer, Canadian
Trade Commissioner, show that the
corrupt Government of the whole
corrupt country has lost its grip,
and that it and every foreigner is at the
mercy of the mob.
Egypt is a cesspool of intrigue and
fanaticism, focus of all the commercial
and moral wretchedness of the Middle
East. It did not lift a finger to
defend itself in two great wars. It has
now no real friend in the world except
Moscow, which is cynically supporting
its debauched and despot monarch and
its arbitrary totalitarian regime.
The civilised nations, and particularly
the British Commonwealth, will be sorry
if Egypt is not soon put in handcuffs.
The steady flow of British troops, naval
ships and aircraft towards the Eastern
Mediterranean suggests that it will be,
and in that connection it should not be
forgotten that Australia has a very vital
stake in what happens to Suez.
The Transport Chaos.
“In its economic consequence and infla-
tionary influence the breakdown in trans-
port efficiency is just as damaging as the
more spectacular shortage of coal and
power.” So spake Austin Gittings, of
Leeton Chamber of Commerce, at a
gathering in Wagga (N.S.W.) the other
day. He could have added that among
Federal and State politicians who’ve
become vocal about high costs of food
and scarcity of some forms of it in
thickly-populated centres, this obvious
truth doesn’t seem to be appreciated.
It appears to have escaped these gentle-
men completely that State railways are
no longer capable of handling the vastly-
increased quantities of freight inland, that
coastal shipping through Communist
sabotage and congested ports cannot
manage the sea traffic, and that apart
from the roads not being capable of
standing up to the heavy truck traffic the
truckies themselves are so harried and
penalised by State laws aimed at divert-
ing freight to railways that road-carriage
is far more costly than it should be.
Whatever achievements Australia may
have cause to boast about during the past
10 years, national transport is not one
of them. The system has failed to meet
the growing demands made upon it or to
adapt itself to modem transport develop-
ments. It has been here said repeatedly
that until transport is freed of depart-
mental shackles and the authorities who
profess to “control” it get some sense
shaken into them, the chaos will become
steadily worse and Its effects more
widespread.
Well, it is said again, with the addition
that if Canberra means what it says about
defence it will have to put transport right
on the top line of its programme.
MiG v. the Rest.
Notes on air defence:
Scare discussions of the relative values o
types of fighter aircraft used m K° r ea have
tended to create an impression that the Russian
MiG is the decisive factor in the Korean war,
that unless the British and
invent something to compete with that fabulous
machine All Is Lost, f .
It is natural that the lively members of me
RA A F.’s magnificent 77th Squadron should
chafe at the idea that the Meteor which they
are flying is no match for the MiG and that
the U.S.Jsabre is inferior to it m many ways,
though its equal, at-least, in manoeuvrability
and in weight of firepower, despite the MiG s
heavier guns; but these facts probably do not
matter very much in the over-all worl d pic *u •
The MiG has added considerably to the diffi-
culties of the Allied bombing programme m
Korea and has forced the Americans to a
programme of night-bombing and to the necd
for fighter protection for bombers, but m doing
so it 8 has merely forced a changeover from
conditions abnormally favorable to the U.N.U.
afiies to a state of affairs normal to modern
W There is nothing devastatingly superior about
the MiG oyer world levels m Allied fighk
aircraft The Meteor as a fighter is a pioneer,
obsolescent old war-horse with
a blind spot or two, under-powered by fighter
standards: in fact, a snung bird ior a y
modern fighter aircraft over .15,000 ft or so
It was designed in the experimental days ot
St afrcraft and it has served useful purposes,
and is stiff serving a useful purpose in many
fidds in which the racehorse, swept-back-wmg
fiehter would be worse than useless.
Nobody in any field force will sneer at
aircraft which can carry 16 601 b. rocket
nack a wallop like a 6m.-gun cruiser. Rocket
equipped, the Australian Meteor Squadron !
Korea, in the role which it now iff af
a iob iust as useful, and no doubt just
exciting, as the high-altitude fighting
Anyway, nobody can laugh off a m
which on August 31 last, in 187
new Sapphire engine, climbed 39,400 t . i
‘Twould seem that the MG, whld. ts
certainly not Chinese-constructed, is not in
Kcuea merely to fight the Korom war. It »
known to have Russian-trained P^°^ s v.
nnnears only in groups, usually under a skilled
kader wim less skilled pilot followers whose
personnel is always o bvi°usly changing, as t
fhpv were being taken out after obtaining
certain amount of experience against the com-
parable U.S. machine, the Sabre
l N p a eSS£
the qualities of
“ JSZ'SAA & S JJo g
5“ SASfrleSedoSS
ffSS** OoverumenUshO.
fiSl fear the Allies
are T ohSusl C y S taking the bait ta Kong and
S £ S n |ve R n""hS £S co b id
“'•The 'status of a fighter.mach'ne jaigelv or
mainly depends these days on the status oi
(Continued on next poge^)


tfS-:-'?'''’ ‘ v ’ x-££v
-
4204
CMwfW
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
pS|Bj
iirir mi
..t
mmm
?4 > dg81ggsi$r 4#$
' • : ■:• • • -:
power-unit. The MiG has an adaptation
of the British Rolls-Royce Nene engine which
was given to Moscow in 1947, when it was
reaching the top of its development. In its
present redesigned form it seems to have an
output of about 5000-5500h.p. against the
5200h.p. of the General-Electric type carried by
the U.S. Sabre.
The standing of the Nene in relation to world
engines, however, is shown by the fact that out
of 31 fighters, Bombers and fighter-recce air-
craft now on the modern British lists, only four
older types, three of them naval craft, use the
Nene. The top British fighter now on the
production-line, the P 1067 Hawker, has the
Avon, on which known models (in the Canberra
bomber) rate 6500 h.p., while secret-list
models are believed to be in the 7500h.p. range.
There is little doubt but that a Sabre powered
with this type of unit would leave the MiG,
as at present constituted, standing. And the
new experimental Delta types of aircraft have
yet to be engined to top power. The latest two
Deltas have been flying for less than a year.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Cairo mob ran amuck at the week-
end and set fire to everything it associ-
ated with Britain —Shepheard’s, Barclay’s
Bank, Gezira Turf Club, airline offices,
motor-cars, cinemas and night-clubs. A
few American institutions of similar sort
were not distinguished by the rioters
from those of the Power which has given
Egypt all its modern prosperity and
freedom. A dozen or so British residents
were counted killed or wounded next day,
and others were missing, including the
Canadian Trade Commissioner.
Appropriately enough, the hooligan
mobs ran through the city with torches
in demonstration of preference for
friendship with Soviet Russia. The
Gyppo army did nothing till Cairo
seemed to be well alight, and then—
martial law having been proclaimed in
what the Gyppo Premier called “an odd
situation” —troops drove up and fired
shots over the heads of crowds and
police, who alike ran away. Farouk’s
Government now seems to accept the fact
that the British are being used as a
stalking-horse for “organised revolution.”
It’s come, A.W.U. secretary Dougherty
told the union’s convention that unions
would agree to pegged wages if the Gov-
ernments pegged prices. Nothing of this
was heard when the union heads were
running their silly campaign urging
Menzies to take over price-control—
which he couldn’t do without the consent
of the States or of the people by
referendum.
Though pretty well everybody else, in-
cluding Monk of the A.C.T.U., heaved
a sigh of relief when the basic-wage rise
turned out to be less than half what was
tipped. Finnan, the McGrrrrr Prices
Minister, frothed at the mouth. He is
“astounded,” the - workers in his State
are being “robbed just as much as any
racketeer or blackmarketeer robbed
them m the past.” In the past! Doesn’t
he know what’s going on now?
Finnan, probably fearing some pointed
remarks about the thumping rises in
N.S.W. Parliamentary salaries, jumped in
to denounce the basic-wage rise as not
enough and said he was “suspicious of
some jiggery-pokery taking place in these
basic-wage adjustments.” He spoke
about a royal commission. But he was
never very keen about the inquiry into
his own election for Darlinghurst.
A.W.U. secretary Dougherty in his
report to the union’s Federal convention
said “The time is overdue for a clean-up
of Labor’s electoral machine in N.S.W.”
This from the union which runs the
Queensland “Labor” Government and its
electoral machine is Satan rebuking sin.
Abolition of Upper Chambers is still
on the “platform,” but is seldom men-
tioned nowadays in N.S.W. Parliament.
Last week A.W.U. secretary Dougherty
rapped the McGrrrrrs for not having used
their majority in the Leg. Council to vote
it out of existence, as Holland’s National-
ists did in N.Z. last year. He pointed
to the Leg. Councillors’ £5OO a year, gold
pass and other perks, and hinted that
they had something to do with the matter.
Then Jackie Ferguson, A.L.P. boss, sadly
announced that with a bare majority in
the Assembly “Labor” had to stick to
the Leg. Council or it would have no
power at all.
J. J. Graves, one of those McGrrrrr
M.L.Cs,, has been “expelled” from the
party after an “inquiry” into “Labor”
voting for the Leg. Council last
December, when S. Parry, the Bankstown
“Independent” and “Labor” supporter,
lost his seat. Graves, party-secretary
from 1930 to 1939, was Jock Garden’s
offsider when the party went Red about
25 years ago and J. T. Lang—“greater
than Lenin” in Garden’s eyes—became
Premier. He was expelled in 1946 for
being a.w.l. during a vote on coal and
was restored at an annual conference.
Though the Federal Cabinet has the
report of the committee appointed to see
if Federal members are worth any more
money, it won’t be public property until
just before members get back from their
long summer holiday and get ready to
do a bit. However, a little Molonglo
mudlark or crow or sandpiper or some-
thing has let it out that there’ll be more
pay all round, that country members will
get more for exes than city members,
and that everybody will be happy. Dr.
Evatt is not expected to attack the Gov-
ernment on the matter.
A question that arises as a result of
Commissioner Galvin’s recent judgment
is what inducement there is for Federal
and State M.Ps. to fight inflation when
their own salaries go up as the basic
wage increases.
In a long article on falling wheat pro-
duction, “S.M.H.” gave space to R. J,
Doolin, wheatgrower member of the
Wheat Board, for what amounted to an
attack on the wheat-stabilisation scheme
and a jab at the Menzies Government for
“withholding in the stabilisation fund £2B
million” of the wheatgrower s’ money:
Under the stabilisation scheme the wheat-
grower Bast year] was forced to sell one-
third ox his crop at cost, without any
margin for profit... .Australian wheat-
growers will lose oyer £3O million this year
from exports.
The gentleman omitted to mention that
growers freely voted themselves into the
stabilisation scheme, though not a few
voices warned them against it. The
scheme is not a Menzies scheme; it was
invented by the Chifley Government. All
Menzies did was ask the growers if they
wanted it to go on; by free ballot they
said they did.
N.S.W. Egg Marketing Board isn’t
joining in the general howl for more
farm production. It has told hen-farmers
“openly and frankly” that there is no de-
mand for their product justifying greater
production. It has failed to persuade the
Federal Government to ease the restric-
tions on exports to countries other than
the U.K. or to make up to egg-men the
loss in prices which Government-to-
Government trading entails, and it is
faced with the problem of keeping eggs
at a reasonable price to the local consumer
and getting the egg-men a price to meet
rising costs and show a profit. What the
board is telling everybody is that no
matter if production is increased, eggs
won’t be cheaper. In Queensland, on the
other hand, the rationing of eggs is now
threatened,
A very great noise is being made
about the possibility of Australia having
to import food in the comparatively near
future. Not so much is now being heard
about the fact that the Commonwealth
had to charter a dozen ships to bring coal
to Melbourne and Adelaide, and that
£5,210,000 was provided in the Budget
for the purpose, the quantity of coal
running into 2\ million tons. We’ve vast
quantities of coal in our own ground,
and it isn’t affected by droughts.
Anyone reading the Sydney news-
papers’ alarming stories of how the place
is faced with starvation can only con-
elude that its Lord Mayor O’Dea, far
from a goodwill tour of Holland, went
there to arrange for the sending of food
parcels to Sydney.
N.S.W. Transport Minister Sheahan
must in his heart be coming to agree with
O’Sullivan, who preceded him in his
office. O’Sullivan once declared the only
hope was to sell the Sydney trams to
private enterprise and be done with
them. The striking bus mechanics are
now again, like the crane-drivers
recently, testing just how far the McGirr
Government can be pushed around. But
then, any Government with the guts of
the McGrrrrrs must expect to be pushed
around.
In his annual report for 1950-51 the
Queensland Commissioner for Road
Transport puts among his “other main
sources” of revenue this item:
Coal. —During the year 91,708 tons of
coal were hauled in the main from the
opencut collieries Biloela to Gladstone,
and permit fees totalling £22,927 7s. 6d.
were received. It was anticipated that a
greater quantity of coal would have been
hauled.
Perhaps the carriers and the coalbuyers
got tired of paying the commissioner a
fee of just on ss. a ton for the mere
issuing of a permit to run over roads
which they have every right to use
anyhow.
The Murray Valley Development
League is financed by donations from
local-government bodies in the valley in
Victoria, N.S.W. and South Australia —
at least, S.A. was in it until the inevitable
Government auditor found that some rule
prevented S.A. 1.-g. bodies from giving
the league money. Premier Playford put
an enabling Act through the S.A.
Assembly—two years after the stoppage
—and everybody smiled again until some
nark arose in the Leg. Council and outed
the enabling clause. It’s one of the few
times Playford has been checked, and all
along the Murray they’re waiting to see
what he’ll do about it.
Announcing that U.S, military and
economic aid to Persia, Afghanistan,
Burma, Egypt, Irak and Ireland had been
stopped, Averell Harriman reminded
them that such aid depended on their
promise to promote world peace, end
causes of international friction, fulfil
military obligations and so forth. He
thought the others might possibly redeem
themselves, but “I am doubtful about
Ireland.” Be jabers, and pwhat is this
all about?
By 1962 American homes will be
powered and heated by atomic energy,
according to the U.S, Home Builders’
president. What interests Sydneysiders is
what regularity of power-supply they can
expect in 1952. Last weekend, because
two generators went out of action on the
Friday night “for overhaul and running
repairs,” they were treated to lengthy
blackouts as a grim portent for the coming
winter.
President Truman’s latest report to
Congress gives some idea of the immensity
of the sums involved in U.S. defence
preparations. He asked for tax increases
of £2232 million, disclosed that America
is at present spending over £20,000
million a year on defence, and that the
annual figure will rise to £29,000 million
by this time next year.
The McDonald-Cains told their rail-
ways commissioners they could have 30
new electric trains (210 cars) for Mel-
bourne suburban lines, provided they
didn’t spend more than £si million on
’em. Wishart, the boss commissioner, was
so elated he immediately announced that
whereas the suburban lines carried 124
million passengers a year in 1920, when
the first electrics began, they carried 174
million in 1949-50. He didn’t quote
figures for country-line traffic, though it
would be interesting to see how this has
been affected by long, long years—off and
on—of so-called Country-party Govern-
ments.
“Kem”: When R. F. X. Connor
became State member for Wollongong-
Kembla (N.S.W.) he set out to reform
the Wollongong Showground Trust. Its
largely non-Labor committee was con-
sidered to be far too interested in dog-
racing ; not sufficiently active in promot-
ing the show and sport in general. Lands
Minister Renshaw was persuaded to fire
the lot and set up a new trust. By an
odd coincidence this comprises nearly all
Labor supporters, and they were not
nominated by the sporting bodies; some
think Connor was the selection com-
mittee. The new trust got results. The
New Year Highland Gathering and an
inter-district cricket-match traditionally
held on the showground were abandoned
because the new trust’s charges were too
stiff, Wollongong’s three-days and two-
nights show is to take the form of a one-
day gymkhana— out at Bull! —and dog-
racing on the ground is bigger, brighter
but no better than before.
When a big section of Greater
Wollongong’s (N.S.W.) busmen struck
recently there was no transport to the
Port Kembla waterfront, and wharfies’
secretary J. Stewart complained that 250
men lost 5000 man-hours in consequence.
He slammed the stevedoring companies
and everyone else for “failure to provide
emergency transport,” and saw in it
“another demonstration of their in-
efficiency in operating the port.” Some-
one timidly asked if it would have been
“strike-breaking” if the employers put on
emergency buses with non-union labor.
Stewart’s answer hasn’t been recorded.
Melbourne Bumbles have announced
that when the Royalties arrive and see
the Town Hall it will seem like a fairy
palace floating in the air, so cunningly
is it being floodlit. Also floating in the
air, no doubt, will be some of the
council’s projects, like the elimination of
the St. Kilda - road bottlenecks, the
roofing-over of the Jolimont yards and
the Desgraves-street subway.
No fewer than 14 of the younger
Evatt’s abo. proteges got full of beer at
Griffith (N.S.W.) the other day and
created a minor riot when refused more,
snatching up other people’s drinks, abus-
ing the publican and offering to fight the
police. The police, with characteristic
phlegm, ran them in and a magistrate
fined the lot. If the abos are as intelli-
gent as the younger Evatt says they are
they’ll know whom to blame for their
bother.
Latest Moslem community to revolt
against the Western Allies (the French
section), whose victory in the late war
redeemed them from bondage to Hitler,
is Tunisia. Last year the Soviet Govern-
ment was reported to be shipping gold
to Tunisia for subversive work, though it
was probably called “a peace
campaign.”


THE WINNING HIT.


ft
o=9
jt!
0
£5O PRIZE
Northern Territory
Competition
The Town Management Board of
Darwin will conduct a competition for
a prize of £5O from moneys made
available by the Commonwealth
Jubilee Committee for the best entry
submitted on “An Historical Review
of the Northern Territory.” The com-
petition is open to all persons who are
living in or who have lived in the
Northern Territory,
Entries must reach the Secretary,
Town Management Board, Darwin,
from whom copies of the regulations
governing the competition are obtain-
able, not later than 24th May, 1952.
X742D-150
Because of the
careful blending
of choice Virginia
Tobaccos in
Capstan.
own blend it is a
pleasure to smoke
Capstan
cigarettes
Time for a
gf
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE’S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
CONVERTIBILITY OF STERLING.
Although it has been con-
sidered generally that the com-
munique issued after the Com-
monwealth Finance Ministers’
Conference in London was
“vague” and “lacking in detail,”
it may be worth bearing in mind
that the first announcement of
the Australian Federal Govern-
ment concerning the economic
policy now in full force was
almost equally vague, and that it
was therefore all the more a
shock when its effects started to
become apparent in the last
quarter of 1951.
The general terms of the
London communique are broad
enough to mean many things.
The objective of making sterling
freely convertible into the cur-
rencies of other countries, at the
same time combating inflation,
surely means an industrial and
economic revolution in the
principal countries of the ster-
ling area. For sterling to stand
on its own feet face to face with
the dollar implies a recovery in
Empire trade, and an improve-
ment in per capita industrial
output, far beyond anything in
sight at the moment.
The only other way in which
sterling might hold its own on
a free market with the dollar
would be for huge investment
credits to be made available to
the sterling area from the
United States, The London
communique mentions reliance,
“in varying degrees, on invest-
ment from outside the sterling
area.” But this dollar aid is
visualised only as aid for the
members of the sterling area to
develop their productive power,
which would “not only
strengthen their own economies
but also help meet the inevitable
growing world demands for
food, raw materials and other
essential goods.”
The communique stressed
that the sterling area must live
within the means which are, or
can be, available to it. The
situation was so urgent that it
was required of the sterling area
to be in balance with the rest
of the world—including the
dollar area—during the second
half of 1952. “The first and
most important step is to ensure
that the internal economy of
each Commonwealth country is
sound and that all possible
measures are taken to combat
inflation. This is not only
essential for an improvement in
the balance of payments, but
will also help to keep down the
cost of living. Another im-
portant requirement is to in-
crease exports and earning-
power.”
When sterling-area countries
are, through increased exports,
in credit with the rest of the
world long enough to establish
surpluses, sterling may become
freely convertible —and stable —
with no restrictions on imports
or transfer of capital or incomes.
Freer access would then be avail-
able to the output of North
America and other at-present
“hard-currency” areas, and to
requirements of external capital.
In Australia an attempt is
already being made to increase
productivity by making it more
difficult for non-essential in-
dustries to obtain capital and
credit. Even the building trade
is being restricted in this regard
—and until recently homebuild-
ing had a top priority with
nearly all Australian Govern-
ments.
Already more labor is becom-
ing available to essential in-
dustry, and that which is left in
the more-or-less luxury trades is
working a good deal harder
than it hitherto has been.
Throughout industry a far
greater output could be achieved
by each wage-earner without
any hardship to himself. But
unless more coal and steel are
made available to form a base
for the expansion of all essential
FINAL TEST
MATCH
AUSTRALIA.
west'lndies.
BWflSftMigH
"And to think it all started from two human beings !”
industry it will be difficult for
the general objective to be
achieved.
More labor is already avail-
able for the steel industry, but
the McGirr Government in
N. S. Wales is determined to
block any Commonwealth move
to improve output in the coal
position. The McGirr Ministry
is one of the few remaining in-
struments of obstruction left to
the political “Labor” party in
Australia, and it aims at the
destruction of any free-enterprise
system of government by hook
or by crook.
The Socialist party in Britain
is not without the same sort of
taint, and this political and in-
dustrial force remains one of
the major impediments to the
achievement of economic or in-
dustrial reform of any kind.
But there are signs that industrial
“Labor” is tending to split in
Australia on this very issue, the
section which advocates in-
creased production as the only
effectual counter to inflation
being set upon by the rabid
doctrinaires and demagogues.
But a more rational and
national-minded Labor party
may emerge from it all.
Australia will not be able to
do its part in achieving full con-
vertibility of sterling without an
immense improvement in its
rural and industrial productivity.
There has been a very poor
showing in our basic industries
since the war. In the processing
of raw foodstuffs and raw
materials there has been a con-
siderable development. But our
economy is out of plumb, and
the cry of “back to the land” is
not far off again—as a matter of
dire necessity. And the mines
will also demand their full quota
of manpower.
Even Mr. Chifley, when Prime
Minister, declared that “the
honeymoon is over.” For six
post-war years British countries
have been muddling along on
the idea that the working
population was entitled to some
sort of “new order.” They have
been given the framework of a
new industrial order, but they
have neglected to complete it by
doing a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay. Having got all
they can out of the proprietorial
side of industry (to the deteriora-
tion of the working assets of all
industry) they have, for the past
few years, been endeavoring, in
an impersonal sort of way, to
cheat their fellow-workers by
not pulling their weight. It has
become a crazy and completely
unnatural situation,
“The free convertibility of
sterling.” It is a phrase with a
world of political and economic
meaning. If the countries repre-
sented at the conference are
serious in their announced
intentions, then Australia, and
Britain, are in for a period of
industrial reorganisation such as
has not been seen in the last
generation.
But before sterling becomes
any more convertible than it is
at present if is likely to be sub-
ject to even more severe controls.
Fewer dollars will be available
to Australia and New Zealand in
1952, while in Britain trade-
union leaders and employers
have promised to support a
nation-wide manpower switch-
over to more essential and
dollar-earnmg production.
Shares Dull
The sharemarkets were dull
again last week, though the 10s.
quarterly rise in the basic wage
was less than most industries
expected.
Key industrial shares were a
little stronger. 8.H.P., A.C.I.
and C.S.R. were all in demand
at slightly firmer prices. Fol-
lowing a drop in the interim div.
from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c. (last year
a final of 9 p.c. made 15 p.c. for
the year), Swans (Sydney) ords.
weakened from their previous
595. Frederic Ash (Newcastle)
ords. were sold at 465. This
concern, in the same line of
business as Swans, last year
earned 25.2 p.c. on capital and
paid 15 p.c. (against 27 p.c. and
15 p.c. respectively from Swans).
Though earnings and finances at
the end of the current year may
be comfortable enough for
Frederic Ash to pay 15 p.c., if
the rate drops to 12$ p.c. the
yield would still be high at
£5 9s. per cent. On the current
div.-rate it is £6 11s. per cent.
F. W. Hughes £1 ords. have
been dealt in at 20s. 6d. On a
revaluation basis the net tangible
asset backing per share was
275. 9d. at flotation a couple of
months ago. Average net earn-
ings for the five years to June 30
last were 10.9 p.c. on the new
capital of £4,150,000. The co.
represents the backbone of the
pastoral and industrial empire of
the late F. W. Hughes, who died
in August, 1950.
The 10s. shares in John Mc-
Ilwraith Industries (Melbourne)
yielded 5,4 p.c. at last week’s
quote of 235. 3d. Last term
earnings were 19.4 p.c. on
capital and the div. 12$ p.c.
Bearing Services 10s. ords. at
16s. are also interesting with a
yield of 5.4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis.


m
m
m
**t 9 U never forget the happiness on
Mother’s face when
she first heard mg baby cry."
“A simple little thing! Yet
Mother had been hard-of-
hearing for so long that
Jenny crying for her bottle
was, for her, the most
beautiful sound in the
world.” •
This is just one of hun-
dreds of happy incidents we
hear about grateful people
to whom the wonderful
“Acousticon” has brought
back the joys of hearing.
The “Acousticon” can actu-
ally restore hearing for
almost every degree of deaf-
ness. So, if there’s someone
in your family hard-of-hear-
ing, why not write for an
“Acousticon” booklet which
tells all about this modern
wonder.
Then, should they wish,
they can try the “Acousti-
con” for themselves in the
ANGUS & COOTE consulting
rooms, in absolute privacy.
Or we will send a consultant
to your home.
It’s just as natural as fit-
ting glasses to restore faulty
eyesight.
Write for the booklet that tells you all about the famous
"ACOUSTICON" HEARING AID
The finest hearing aid in the world.
Obtainable only from
Bugus & Coote
500~George St., Sydney; 62 Scott St., Newcastle
203 Collins St., Melbourne; 626 Sturt St., Ballarat
175 North Terrace, Adelaide; 134 Elizabeth St., Brisbane
76 Harrington St., Hobart; 41 Brisbane St., Eaunceston
254 Murray St., Perth
In father's footsteps
Many families have banked with us for generations,
and it’s always a special pleasure to us when one
of our customers brings a son or daughter along
to open his or her first account.
In some things, what was good enough for your
grandparents is not good enough for you. But we
at the “Wales” keep up-to-date and we think that
you, like your grandparents, will be happy to have
us look after your financial interests.
S'."""
r^
V*!
For the best in banking service,
consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5I28D
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD/
FIRE — MARINE — ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878,
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS i
r n n,\T,7? fChairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
a-rmiA-NT RORTi'BTSON ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
STRUAN KuntK i aUiN. " .. .>j T om rjonpral Manager.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General »
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Cen
• •
H
Cn
' & 3
X
Olgttqrtt
RUBBER FLOORING
Full range of attractive colours. Heavily
reinforced backing prevents stretch or
buckle.
g
TODAY’S MOST MODERN FLOOR
COVERING—LASTS A LIFEWME I
OF2J2
FROM RU? FURNI URE AND 191. STORES
JAPAN'S INDUSTRIAL COMEBACK.
“Ek Dum”: If ever there was
a picture of financial and
industrial ruin it was presented
by Japan in 1945. With nearly
80.000. people, at home and
abroad, increasing by about
2.000. a year, almost the
whole of its industrial strip of
cities was devastated. Whole
towns, such as Hiroshima, were
ash-heaps. Its stockpiles of
goods were reduced to nothing.
Its chief means of gaining
foreign exchange, the textile
industry, had been made over
for war purposes. Many of its
cotton and rayon factories, in
any case, were mere heaps of
rubble with chimneys sticking
out of them.
Its food-production had fallen
to such an extent that it could
provide only 1066 calories per
day for its inhabitants on the
average in normal urban areas.
Clothing in 1945 was repre-
sented by what the average Jap
could scrounge. Even at the
end of 1948, when the writer
was previously in Japan, the
working male who owned an
army uniform was wearing it
still, or what remained of it.
Inflation Comes
With all its other troubles, it
was natural that Japan should
be hit by a tremendous inflation,
complicated by a go-as-you-
please budgetary system which
admitted of no kind of real
balance and which, in fact, had
shown no national balance since
1936, before the Chinese war
began. Concurrently with a
ballooning note-issue, prices
began to rise like an atom-bomb
cloud in 1945, and seemed likely
to reach the stratosphere. Using
the all-item index for 1934-36,
the two years before the China
war, as 1.0, the estimated con-
sumer price-index in Tokyo in
August, 1945, when the war
ended, was 10.2. By December
the same year it was 46.9, a year
later 125.2, and by August,
1949, 203.3 ; and there was, to
complicate matters, an entirely
chaotic relationship of internal
prices to each other caused by
differentiation in subsidising
industries during the war, and by
other things.
In November, 1945, the
industrial situation could be
summed up by saying that pro-
duction was only 9 per cent, of
the war-time peak, and that coal,
which is the heart of industry
even in a country with large
water-power, was not even being
produced in sufficient quantities
to run the railways.
Most of the mining had been
done during the war by Koreans
and Formosans, and these had
lit out for home, making it
necessary to recruit immediately
130,000 miners by means of
special incentives, such as extra
food rations and wages and
special housing.
The Planning Age
Obviously in the chaos price-
control, wage-control and pro-
duction-controls were inevitable.
And the controllers, the planners
and the talkers naturally all
claim to have been responsible
for the astonishing things which
have happened since the
Supreme Command of the Allied
Forces took over in 1945. Be-
hind all the chaos which they
have produced on the surface,
however, there has been solid
work by some Occupation
authorities —and the Japanese
and matters are coming right
with a swiftness and solidity
which is frightening to a com-
petitive outside world.
Part of the growth is, of
course, due to the Korean war,
of which Japan is reaping the
commercial and financial benefit,
and which commercial Japanese
of certain types hope will never
end. But the bulk of the
astonishing recovery justifies the
remark of Mr. Yoshida, the aged
Prime Minister, who said in
1948 that the greatest asset
of Japan was its 80,000,000
Japanese people.
To a very large degree
vital fields of industry and com-
merce have been revivified not
because of controls but in spite
of them, and almost entirely by
the will of the Japanese people
to work and use the opportuni-
ties presented by the injection of
United States money. And the
proof lies in the acceleration of
development as the power of
initiative has been transferred
from Occupation to Japanese
hands.
The whole country at present
has an air of booming prosperity,
even if it has not overtaken all
essential shortages. It is turn-
ing out every sort of consumer-
goods on a huge scale, though
there is still a gap to be filled.
The shops are full of clothing,
toys and food. What were hol-
low, burnt-out spaces at the end
of 1948 now hold thriving fac-
tories employing thousands.
The transport systems of the
large cities have been made over,
and rural bus services are as
good as or better than we can
boast in tourist areas. Every-
where people look fat and happy
and appear to have money to
spend.
Some Figures
A few figures tell the general
story. General coal production
averaged 1,698,000 metric tons
per month in 1946; the average
for the first 10 months of 1951
was over 3,600,000 metric tons
(which is greater than 1934-36
averages). Monthly average
steel production (ingots and
castings) in 1947 was 86,100
metric tons. From July to
October, 1951, the figure dd not
fall in any month below 520,100
tons, and in July was 592,500
tons. In 1950 shipbuilding was
still restricted, and the monthly
vessels finished, many of them
of wood, numbered 15 of a total
of 19,674 gross tons.
But the dockyards have gone
back to private enterprise. The
debris has been cleared away.
At Kure, which was a junk-pile,
an American-backed company is
beginning to build the world’s
biggest tankers (38,000 tons) in
the docks which constructed the
Yamato, the world’s biggest
battleship (of 64,000 tons)
during the war. There are now
six major shipyards and 22
smaller ones working. They are
turning out over 50,000 tons of
new vessels each month, and are
now entering on programmes for
freighters and passenger-liners
of large oversea standard and
with 18-knot speeds, so that the
Japanese mercantile marine will
soon be back on the seas on a
competitive basis.
Where rayon-staple produc-
tion, monthly average, in 1948
was 1333 metric tons, in October,
1951, it was 8111 tons.
Square Miles of Buildings
These are not specially-picked
instances. They are typical of
what is happening in Japanese
production and manufacture, in |
materials, in tools, in textiles, in i
everything except home-grown
food, to which there is a natural
ceiling. But in nothing more
than building is the vigor of
Japan illustrated.
In Tokyo they toss up large
city buildings in their stride.
Within a mile radius of the
Marunouchi Hotel more than a
dozen of them, 10 or 11 stories
high and with 100 windows or I
so on the face, have been thrown
up solidly since the end of
1948, and there are a few more,
some even bigger, on the way.
The official statistics of the
Supreme Commander of the
Allied Powers show that during
last October the Japanese
started non-residential buildings
covering 339 acres of floor-
space, and this is about the
monthly average. In 1950 non-
residential buildings begun
covered more than five square
miles of floor area. Residential
buildings that year represented
nearly seven square miles of
floor.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Eve”: Don’t know whether the manu-
facturers will pay me or slay me for
mentioning their product thus, but here
goes: There’s a food on the market
known as Kruffles. Well, when it was
new, I used to ask the shopkeepers,
“Have you any Kruffles?” At least two-
thirds of the shopmen hadn’t heard of
them, and I became exhausted from hear-
ing this answer, “You mean truffles, don’t
you? There’s no such word as Kruffles.”
Right-oh ; now the Kruffles must be well-
established, because all the shopmen seem
to know of them. But me? I’ve had a
Continental urge lately to sample the
fungus known as truffles, so I’ve been in
and out of shops with the request, “Have
you any truffles?” And now I’m
exhausted from getting this answer:
“Truffles? You’re mistaken, madam ;
what you want is •Kruffles!” If it keeps
up much longer I’ll settle for a sausage.
* * * »
“Ornto”: Knowing that there was a
butter shortage in Katoomba (N.S.W.)
over the Christmas holidays, I got on to
the end of a queue in the main street, only
to discover that it wasn’t a butter queue
at all. The people were lined-up waiting
to get a look at the naughty post-cards in
the curio-shop window.
* * * *
“Ceg”: It seems as though 1952 may
see the end of the era when blokes, coves
and coots could loaf on the job with the
knowledge that if they were sacked they
could find another almost immediately.
The scene is a big Government project;
the contracting company an overseas
firm. A huge truck, with water-tank
fitted, backs into the filling-station, and
the driver, having connected up the pipe
to the tank, settles down to
read the racing-page of his
newspaper. Time marches
on, and presently the tank is
overflowing all over the
place. The driver reads on.
A man from the office
appears on the scene and
inquires in the most friendly
way whether the driver
would care for a change of
work. The bloke on the
truck, rather welcoming a
change, says “Yair. What is
it?” Reply: “I don’t
know —you’ll have to find
it.”
* * *
“Cauboy”: If “Outcast
of the Islands,” the British
film which was reported to
be too torrid for Royal
screening, is our old friend
Joseph Conrad, that author
would turn in his grave if
he knew that any feminine
character of his would shock
a selection committee, let
alone the Royal family. All
Conrad’s women are strange,
remote, incredibly rehccnt
asexual creatures who leave the impres-
sion that they know no more about them-
selves than Conrad knew about them. A
cable reports that the beautiful Arab
newcomer, Kerima, who took the
feminine role, although a dusky beauty
with fascinating grace, often bores with
her sustained deliberate slinkiness; she
doesn’t speak throughout the entire film.
How very Conradish that sounds. The
film when publicly shown, say the
reviews, turned out to be no franker, no
“My dance — remember ?”
more romantic and no more exotic than
most current offerings.
* # * *
“Dentonio”: The Canterbury House I
knew in boyhood was the residence of
Colonel Goodlet, of Goodlet and Smith,
timber merchants; it was an impressive
specimen of the Gothic Revival style,
with several attractive gables. It looked
larger than the house Rachel Henning
described as having “dining-room,
drawing-room, billiard-room, and another
small room, and upstairs five large bed-
rooms,” even making allowance for the
kitchen, servants’ hall and servants’ bed-
rooms at the back. But Gothic-type
houses often look bigger than they really
are. Even in my time there was still a
considerable amount of land attached to
the house. A lightly-timbered stretch,
known as “Goodlet’s Bush,” extended
from the end of the garden to Canter-
bury racecourse. The drive, which
Rachel commended, gave access to
George’s River-road at its junction with
Milton-street. Its course is mainly fol-
lowed today by Watson-avenue and
Goodlet-street. Two or three of the firs
that once graced it 'are still standing—
just inside the fence of the Water Board
depot that fronts one side of Watson-
avenue. Canterbury House was
demolished some time in the 1930’5.
Several streets of neat bungalows now
occupy the site of house and grounds.
“Spasebo”; Results of annual examina-
tions have been pouring out of the uni-
versities and other institutions, and the
usual complaints about the system have
been pouring into the papers. Among
objections are complaints that they cause
suicides, mental unbalance and irrespon-
sible behavior as the result of study under
pressure, added to which is the un-
measured and unmeasurable wastage of
talent as students drop out during the
year from fear of failure or develop a
complex and fail after a good year’s
work. All largely hooey, in my opinion ;
the ones who drop out are luckier than
those who come top and are rewarded
with prizes and exhibitions or even
Rhodes Scholarships. The ones who are
unsuccessful at exams may lose their
belief in the things and go in for some-
thing useful. The ones who are suc-
cessful are left, naturally enough, with
pleasant associations round academic
study and may even end up as professors
—i.e., as good rememberers, not knowers.
The only relevant comment I have read
is a question raised by an “Age” cor-
respondent who asked how many of those
who receive passes at examinations could
repeat the performance a year later.
* * * v
“Bagot”: Wonder how many sales-
managers throughout Australia pounced
on Scorfield’s “Rebirth of a Salesman”
cartoon and used it on their travellers as
a brilliant story-without-words? I can
testify that at the New Year sales con-
ference of one Perth warehouse the hand-
ing-round of The Bulletin of 2/1/’52
hammered home the truth that “the picnic
is over and the game is on” far more
effectively than a dozen pep-talks.
* * * *
“Jasby”: My neighbor has solved the
problem of protecting his peach crop
from the fruit-fly. He was telling me
about it on Sunday. “Quite simple,” he
said enthusiastically. “I just get paper-
bags and tie one around each peach.” I
suggested that it must be a tedious busi-
ness, but he didn’t seem to think so.
“Mind you,” he said, “it’s not as if I
had an orchard. I’m only working on a
small scale.” “How many?” I asked.
“All ready for the roof, dear.”
“Only four,” he told me. “Four trees?”
said I. “No, four peaches,”
sK * * *
“F.S.”; Coming out of the latest show
by the latest artist to be hailed by Mel-
bourne critics as a genius of originality
and imagination I asked myself a few
questions. Is this really great art, or is
it only fashionable art? Modern art is
fashionable. The academies are fashion-
able. If somebody were to arrange a
sitter in the way Rembrandt did, painted
the subject as well as Rembrandt and got
into it all the golden light that Rem-
brandt got into his pictures and hung it
in an exhibition, would the critics see it
as great art or would they find it stodgy
because it was not in the fashion? Does
the popular artist of the moment neces-
sarily have imagination? Or is he merely
following a fashion? If some practical
joker smuggled a real Rembrandt into
the country, just as good as the ones in
the National Gallery, and hung it in an
exhibition over his own name, would it
please the critics, or would it give them
the same stuffy feeling that a girl would
, feel if she walked down Collins-street in
great-grandma’s crinoline and poke-
bonnet?
* * * *
“Becks”: Newspapers are often
criticised by lo'cal artists for altering
captions and dialogue in their daily strips,
the complaint being that by substituting
pounds for dollars and footpath for side-
walk they conceal the fact that the strip
is imported. The other side of the
question is that by not making judicious
alterations a paper often lets itself in for
a boner such as the one a Sydney sheet
perpetrated last week. Its strip offering
daily health hints was dealing with the
common cold, and, under the advice
“Always dress according to the weather,
not the season,” it depicted a girl in light
attire walking along in the rain. Below
was the sage remark, “June days can be
cold! ”
* * * *
“H.C.B.”: Our street telephone
recently developed a conscience. Deep
down in its penny-container a spark of
reformation kindled and flickered to a
flame. Its whole attitude to mankind
changed. No longer did it greedily
swallow up the brace of browns, then
permit the ringer to hear a faint voice
chanting: “Hullo? Hello! Hull-lo,”
and finally: “Huh, someone trying to
ring from a faulty phone.” Nor did it
spring its favorite joke —giving you 321
when you’d dialled 123. In its determina-
tion to make amends for past transgres-
sions it closed its gullet and refused to
swallow another penny. When a previous
user had insisted on poking two brums
between its compressed lips, it endeavored
to salve its conscience by disgorging the
coins to deserving people such as myself.
Meanwhile it performed its duty faith-
fully—and gratis. But some people
haven’t the soul to appreciate a graceful
gesture. The young fellow who was in
the box when I approached turned out
to be a P.M.G. employee extracting the
coins from the cylinder. He came out
scratching his head. “Now what lame-
brain put that in there?” he demanded,
flaunting a threepenny-ha’penny stamp.
It’s time to move when people around
you start getting consciences.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Reproductions of
Leonardo’s “Last Supper” (B. 26/12/’51)
have appeared in many strange places,
but my nomination for the strangest goes
to a boxing-ring in the old Rushcutter’s
Bay Naval depot. It was tattooed with
fine attention to color and detail on the
chest of a stocky contender in the semi-
finals of a welterweight competition. On
the boxer’s back was an equally-elaborate
and highly-colored copy of a Crucifixion
painting. I regret to relate that his devo-
tion to religious art did not save him
from a k.o. in the second round.
* * * ♦
“Cruiser”: Frank Thring, the young
entrepreneur and actor who has achieved
great success in elevating repertory in
Melbourne with his new Arrow Theatre,
has named St. Sebastian as the patron
saint of his theatre because he was
“interested in arrows.” Sebastian was
the Christian saint and martyr who, as a
captain of the praetorian guard, was
arrested on the charge of being a
Christian and was ordered by Emperor
Diocletian to be shot to death by archers.
Irene, a Christian woman, found him
alive, drew out the arrows and nursed
him back to life, but he was ordered to be
beaten to death with cudgels for remon-
strating with the emperor for his cruelty,
and his body was found in a sewer by
Lucina, another Christian woman, and
was buried in the catacombs. He was a
good-looking youth, and Renaissance
painters loved to depict him strapped to
a post with his body as full of arrows as
a pin-cushion of pins. His interest in
arrows, however, seems rather negative.
FILM-FLAM.
“Several Commonwealth Jubilee film-competition
awards went to departmental films ; a special award
was made to an Immigration Department film of
migrants; the Australian producer, Mr. Ken Hall,
blames the Capital Issues Control Board for the
closing-down of Pagewood studios; and the general
manager of Ealing Studios, London, said his firm
was closing down Pagewood because ‘Australia was
unable to establish a representative film industry.’ ”
While Government awards its own
Photography a prize,
Commercial companies make moan,
A film before their eyes:
“Our skies are not so overcast
As under-cast, we fear,
Because our southern stars have passed
To the northern hemisphere;
“And when new stars have come to view
The State has supervened,
And seized upon the migrants, who
Are used to being screened.
“One star remains to us, we know,
But Rafferty reports
He needs to have a full-length show —
He’s far too tall for shorts.
“But when we took our fi*n around
For cash to be assured,
Before ’twas made, this time, we found
The Capital Issues bored!”
But British owners say it’s not
The board that’s to be slated;
They say, “It’s far too long a shot —
A close-up’s indicated.”
And who can be censorious
When film magnificoes
Determine not to study us
But what the studi-owes?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Clooter”: I belong to a generation
which, in later childhood and youth, went
about laboring under the notion that
Solomon was one of the mightiest and
wealthiest of kings and Israel the greatest
and most powerful of ancient empires.
We had to grow up before we discovered
that Sol. wasn’t much more than a desert
sheik and Israel about as powerful in
those times as the Aruntas are today. It
shows what continuous publicity can do,
and I pass this on to the modern Press
as a warning. For the past year or so a
fat, oily, pompous Gyppo named Farouk,
king of the most washed-out mob
“Turn on a few tears and you'll hit the front page.”
alnnp the eastern Mediterranean,
I° g u A almost his everv word
5 "t” «
graphed and written about to no
end, and the
seems to be credhed witt havFng per®
formed miracles. Meantime his subjects,
with no word of reproof from him, are
indulging in murder, loot and destruction
on the grand scale against people of my
blood, who have so far restrained their
anger in a remarkable manner, though,
if they chose, they could go through
Farouk and his outfit in an hour or two.
I’m tired of Farouk and his queen (though
the lass herself seems to have been
dragged into it all willy-nilly), tired of
his Gyppos, his tantrums and his sherbets.
And I’m tired of newspapers which pay
big money for cables retailing his infantile
antics.
* ¥ * ♦
“Eureka”: Thnte was a time when
questioning an umpire’s decision would
lead to disqualification in any sport;
nowadays it seems to be a common hap-
pening in every sport, from football to
snakes-and-ladders. In tennis it is quite
common for players and spectators to
question decisions, and during one of the
West Indies Test matches a radio-com-
mentator excelled himself by questioning
a run-out decision —from somewhere up
in the grandstand. Fortunktely wrestlers
do not question the referee’s decision.
They either drop him or toss him out of
the ring.
* * * *
“Ike Holler”: The use of words for
meanings quite outside their signal inten-
tion goes on increasing. Sydney “Herald”
headed a news item “Final Lap of Tas-
manian Race.” Actually there were no
laps (those being complete turns around
any course) in that race, and even if the
race had been to N.Z. and back there
would only have been one. But every-
body knew the meaning of the “Herald”
heading. The phrase has become so
general as a description of the ending
that the “last lap” is used casually in
regard to sermons, speeches, court cases,
the illness of a dying man or a beer party
—in which case “on the last lap” may
have a double meaning.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A five-year-old who set
out to starve herself to death after hear-
ing a bedtime from her grand-
mother is reported from U.K. The story
was about Augustus, who “ate and drank
as he was told and never let his soup
grow cold,” but by refusing his food be-
came “just like a little bit of thread, and
on the fifth day he was —dead.” The
child forthwith went on a hunger-strike,
and to save her life had to be taken to
hospital and be forcibly fed by the doc-
tors. This has aroused a national con-
troversy as to whether children should
be told unpleasant stories. What is
important is not the associations round
the story, but the associations round the
story-teller. It wouldn’t surprise me to
find that the child didn’t like her grandma
and made the story the excuse for
tyrannising over the old lady. Theie are
scores of bedtime-stories, horror films
and radio-serials with far worse imphea-
on the # ,
shave „. According to a L os
Angdes report a 17-year-old blonde play-
mg truant from her high school went
into a shop telephone-booth and stopped
there five and a half hours talking to her
boy-friend, and the proprietor, sensing a
record in the making, sent first for his
friends and then for the Press photo-
graphers and reporters. When the lass
was asked what she found to talk about
she scornfully rejoined: “We’re very
much in love.” The other morning I
spent 40 minutes in a Melbourne railway
carriage with a couple, obviously not long
NO '
BOTTLEDi
Beer I
U$ No '
gW
married, and the only words that passed
between them were “Hurry up. Here we
are” when the train reached its destina-
tion. If the Melbourne pair were to say
to the Los Angeles couple: “As you are
now, so once were we ; as we are now, so
you will be,” American couple would be
utterly insulted.
» * * *
“Charbro”: When Peter Dawson
came back to Australia with Mark Ham-
bourg (Red Page, B. 9/l/’52) the musical
fraternity of Adelaide, with a few
journalists, as befitted Dawson s home
town, gave the pair a dinner at the Orient
hotel, and it was my good fortune to be
there. The length, the warmth and the
intimacy of the speeches supporting the
toast to Peter Dawson had no bounds.
Every speaker referred to the fact that
Dawson was a South Australian, and each
one referred to it many times. And be-
cause he was a South Australian most
of the speakers, few of whom had ever
met Dawson before, felt free to refer to
him as “dear old Peter.” Then came
the toast to Mark Hambourg. The
speeches were fewer and shorter, and
more formal. When Mark rose to reply
he looked steadily around the gathering
with a sad expression, and began: “I am
sorry, very sorry indeed, almost apolo-
getic that I cannot claim the high honor
which belongs to my good friend Peter
Dawson—of being a South Australian.
Then, throwing back his leonine head
and assuming a mock air of anger nna
defiance, he pounded the table with his
fist and threw out the words But I can
at least claim to be a South Russian ,
4 • . H* * *
“Findy”: When New York’s City
Fathers were arranging the details of their
welcome to Captain “Stayput Carlson
they no doubt thought they had struck a
singularly appropriate piece of
when they erected at the City Hall
entrance a huge replica of the stern ot
the Flying Enterprise, to be used as a
rostrum during the presentation. A less
appropriate rostrum than the stern ot a
ship would be hard to find. Rostrum was
the Latin word for beak, whence it was
applied to the prow of a ship. In ancient
Rome, as a reminder of the nations
dependence on the command ot the
sea the platforms from which orators
harangued the populace were embellished
with the rostra of captured Carthaginian
ships It was this custom that gave the
word its modern meaning. The only
occasion I can conceive that would
warrant the use of a vessel’s stern as a
rostrum would be a welcome to Wrong-
way” Corrigan. #
“Old Unionist”: The cabled report
that a quarter of a million New Yorkers
turned out to give a welcome to Captain
Carlsen made me glad, in a busy time,
that the affair was in New York. A chap
who works under me is a good worker,
but he is always ready to throw m a
day’s pay to rush to any place where a
background of cheers is required for the
arrival of some notables or a small pro-
cession which has been well publicised.
Though New York can probably spare
a quarter-of-a-million people well able
to provide a processional background
without personal loss, there must have
been a few thousand Toms in that crowd.
I find it difficult to understand that
enthusiasm. Personally, although I have
taken part in many big processions, it
has always been as a participant in the
event; being a mere cheerer in the back-
ground has no appeal to me. Still, it is
well for our heroes that there are plenty
of people with Tom’s weakness.
“Bo”; Our suburb's most car-proud,
he spends about triple the time burnish-
ing it up that he does at the wheel of it.
And he has never tired of propounding
his pet theory: that the unpolished car
with rusted dents in the mudguards be-
speaks the careless owner and, therefore,
the careless driver —he was to be avoided
as the plague. Whenever one hove in
sight he invariably gave it a wide berth;
if he had to pass an old “bomb” he
always swung wide and got past quickly.
Last week a battered 1936 model
approached him on his left as he reached
an intersection. The wary one kept his
eyes glued on the menace and crawled
forward with extreme caution, ready to
let the other fellow have the right-of-
way if he insisted on it. It was then that
he collected the truck in his off-midriff.
Yes, it was a brand-new one.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: High prices and shortages
have had some rather strange effects. We
no longer see schoolchildren lined up at
fish-and-chip shops for their three-
penn’orth of chips, because you can’t buy
chips these days unless you buy fish. No
longer do we see the
drunk sharing the
tram-seat with a live
lobster. After he has
managed to get
drunk at the present
price of beer he
hasn’t enough money
left to buy a lobster.
Even the drunk’s
bag of prawns is
little more than a
memory, while the
tennis wife can no
longer rush home with a shilling s-worth
of chips and some cold ham for her
husband’s dinner. Soon the humble egg
will be in the luxury class, and poultry-
farmers will have to guard their hens
night and day.
* * * *
“Spoke”: As Princess Elizabeth and
the Duke are to make their first Victorian
landfall at Portland, which was settled by
the Hentys three years before Melbourne
Was settled by Batman, the Portonians
want the plough with which Edward
Henty, head of the family, turned the first
furrow in the State’s sod. They are not
likely to get it. It hangs strapped to a
beam in one of Melbourne s oldest stores
—Hudson’s in Bourke-street—and its
present owner. A, C. Pearse, thinks that
so many historic relics have been
neglected that he wants to take care of it
for the rest of his life, after which it
will go to a national museum or be re-
stored to Portland. The plough has had
a complicated history. It was presented
by Henty in 1879 to Hugh Lennon in
recognition of the progress made by his
company in the manufacture of agn-
cultural machinery, and he exhibited it at
the Royal Show for some years. ‘ Sun-
shine” McKay offered £lOOO for it to add
to his collection, and the museum made
a private offer of £5O. Mr. Pearse bought
it at auction in 1935 for £l9O. It has a
mouldboard and share made in Scotland
and handles of Australian hardwood.
A LA MODE.
“Many young men, prosy as lovers and on the
lazy side, look for the self-reliant, handy type oi
vounff woman who could save them doing jobs around
the house and the car. After all, women have
proved they can develop quite a mechanical apti-
tude.” — Woman’s paper.
When Romance was all-in-all,
Why, the lover then essayed
His love most tenderly to be a-woomg.
Then, a whisper would enthrall,
As would ardent look, which bade
Him in Cupid’s name his suit to be a suing.
From his mind all else was swept
But intoxicating charms —
Her lips, her eyes, her smile, her ‘ crowning
glory.”
Not a thought had he, except —
As she nestled in his arms —
The telling of the old familiar story.
The accomplishments possessed
By his lady would be those
That might with soundest reason be
expected:
With the needle, he’d have guessed,
She’d be expert. He’d suppose
That her energies had mostly been directed
Towards activities
Gentle, soft and feminine,
Such as tatting and embroidering and knit-
ting.
With such occupations she
Would his admiration win; .
For girlish frailties they were very fitting.
Wooing’s undergone a change.
Now your lover looks around
For a long-haired mate with rather red
corpuscles;
One (it may seem rather strange)
Who most likely would be found
In a job which calls for well-developed
muscles.
He’d select his future wife,
Not by poise or kittenish ways,
But by the facile, skilful, proven manner
That she wields a putty-knife
(When a window she would glaze),
A pair of footprints or a shifting-spanner.
That’s why marriages were wrecked
In the old days—for a spouse
Was chosen just because she was good-
looking,
If she’d wit and intellect,
Was efficient in the house,
Including quite a wizardry at cooking.
Sounder far the married state
When a maid has shown that she
Has a very high mechanical ability —
Which would clearly indicate
The prevailing tendency:
The latest-model wife is a utility
Ifl.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Chuck”: “What you need in
handling nags,” Bert told the newchum,
“is confidence. You’re too nervous,
that’s your trouble.” “But I’ve never
caught a horse in my life,” explained
Newie. “Let alone ridden one. Still, I’ll
be glad of a few hints on going about
it.” “Well, a horse’ll mostly behave all
right if he thinks you are boss,” Bert
went on. “But if you act sort of slow
and uncertain he kno\ys right away
you’re new, and he’ll put it over you
every time. Never let a horse know
you’re frightened. Walk right up to him.
see, put your hand on him and stand
him up as though you mean it.” Newie
lapped up the advice avidly and thanked
Bert for his help. That was two days
ago. This morning, as I approached the
yards, bridle in hand, Newie’s voice from
the fence warned me urgently to be care-
ful how I walked up to the horses, as
that bunch was dangerous. Looking back
I found the would-be horseman decked-
out with a black eye; and an arm-sling.
* * * *
“Emjai”; With advancing years my
yellow cat has gone slow on his job of
hunting blackbirds in the orchard and
prefers to get his tucker the easy way ; but,
H.C.L. and shortages having skimped his
meat ration,
he has lately
evinced a
craving for a
imorsel of
cheese, the
riper the
better.
Thought this
was sup-
plementary
diet until I observed him skip his post-
prandial ablution and siesta and betake
himself direct from his cheese course to
the mouse-hole in the skirting. He
breathed hard in the direction of the hole
for a few minutes—then bang! And he
had his easy-meat meal.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Anybody know a practic-
able way of getting rid of rushes —black-
tussock in some parts? I had six or
seven acres of the beastly things, which
always remained about the same, until a
couple of years ago, when they started
spreading like mad. Now the 70 acres
adjoining is seriously threatened with
uselessness. I tried grubbing them out
with a mattock, only to have them come
again as thick as *ever. Obviously they
are encouraged by wet seasons, but in
the dry ones never disappear. Was
pondering them worriedly the other day
when Bill happened along. “By cripes,
those rushes have ruined quite a lot of
good flats further down,” he began, nod-
ding towards my Waterloo. “You want
to be careful or they’ll be doing the same
here.” “Sure,” I agreed. “But how am
I to be careful?” “Well, you don’t want
to plough ’em,” he advised, “because one
bloke tried that and they came up like a
crop after it.” I explained my many
weeks’ grubbing effort. “Aw, that’s no
good,” he scoffed. “And you don’t want
to top-dress them, either, because they’ve
tried that, too, and they grow twice as
big and thick with super., till you can’t
do a thing with them. No grass will
smother ’em far as I know. Please
y’rself, o’ course, whether you do some-
thing about ’em or not,” he shrugged,
“but don’t say I never warned you, that’s
all.”
* * * ♦
“Dicky”: Doesn’t “H.H.” (B.
5/12/’5l) know that the definition of a
bushman is a bloke who will walk two
“Drive slower , John—this is a built-up area."
miles to catch his horse to ride half a
mile?
„„ * „* T _ * ~ r
rp : Track
(Red Page 26/12/'5l) Georgs Farwell,
writing of the threat of ram during grape-
picking on the Murray, says “.. a fall
of rain, or undue humidity, may cost
fruit - growers many thousands of
pounds.” It wasn’t so when I was grape-
snatching there in 1947 and 1948. Early
in the 1947 season rain caused mould on
some of the grapes, so instead of being
“By cripes, this Weather not fit for a blackfeller, boss."
dried they were sent to distilleries for
wine. The price obtained gave the
grower as much, profit as he made on the
dried-fruit, with this difference: he was
relieved of the extra work involved in
drying dipping, racking, shaking,
spreading, boxing—and relieved also of
the weeks of anxiety when his fruit was
spread and rain could rob him of much
of his profit. In fact, in 1948 some of
the growers gave up drying, and sent all
of their fruit to distilleries. And so rain
didn’t worry them ; once their fruit was
picked and on the lorries their money was
as good as in their pockets. The distil-
leries could afford to pay a good price,
having a ready market for their wares—•
1948 was a record year for them. The
losers were those who wanted currants,
raisins and sultanas ; they had the choice
of drinking them or going without.
* * * , »
“Gravelsnatcher”: When I spoke of
the millions of birds around my swamp
the bloke with the mathematical mind
asked me if I realised how many it takes
to make a million. I do—at the rate of
one a second, a million men would take
about a fortnight to march past—so I
invited him to sit on my back porch that
evening and do a spot of counting. We
didn’t include the cranes, coots, stilts and
ibis —there were only about 100 all told
j n v j ew — an( j although from the sound
th h been least hundreds
* , ~ ~ IIUU “ iWO
?! reed-warblers, we couldnt see them,
■ original estimate had referred to the
tree-martins, those swift-flying, restless
first-cousins to the welcome-swallows,
Just after sundown they came, swarm-
ing in from the surrounding bush. They
came like a whirlwind, both in sound
and in the nature of their flight. Over
the swamp they paused, just like a whirl-
wind hovers over one spot as it stretches
itself skywards. Were they annihilating’
an insect swarm? They were chasing
something, for suddenly they broke
formation and swooped down over the
swamp in a headlong dive. I couldn’t
attempt to estimate the number in that
swarm, and neither could the bloke who’d
criticised my figures; but to clinch the
argument I pointed out that there were
dozens of other swarms. The air above
and around was thick with birds for as
far as we could see in the gathering
dusk. There arose from the rushes a
sound like a waterfall, and I drew my
critic’s attention to the cause. The
martins were going in to roost, but they
weren’t floating down. They were
power-diving, and their small bodies cut
the horizon at breathless speed. The
swarms went in in order, but with only
a brief space between each one, and the
noise of rustling rushes continued for
several minutes after the last bird had
left the air—which was over 10 minutes
after the mass descent had commenced.
There may not have been a million, but
it seemed hopelessly inadequate to speak
of them in thousands. One thing puzzles
me. They’re called tree-martins because
they nest in trees. There aren’t enough
trees in this locality to house that crowd,
which may be why they’ve taken to
roosting in rushes. Are they taking to
nesting in rushes, too?
* * * *
“Sack”: At first I thought the clock
had turned back about 25 years: the
horse-drawn covered wagon toiling up the
hill on the Princes Highway near
Omega (N.S.W.) bore the name and
faded slogans of an old-time butter-and-
bacon firm. A peep inside as the pair of
roans were given a blow cleared the
matter up: the ancient vehicle was being
used as a caravan—of the original type.
Two days later I struck the turnout on
the rogd to Gerroa and had a yarn with
the middle-aged driver. He and his wife
were “having a real restful holiday ; no
hurry, no schedule. We camped near
the lagoon at Werri; did a bit o’ fishin.
Might stay a day or two at the Seven-
Mile Beach —depends how we like it.
Then we might go further south down
Ulladulla way ; or we might turn inland.
Don’t know yet. But we’ll finish up by
circling round through Braidwood and
home through the mountains.” Funny
how, now I’m back at work, I think of
that fellow more than anybody else I met
during my holiday. Every time I stop to
wipe the blinding sweat off my glasses a
vision comes of him frolicking in the cool
surf, wetting a line in some secluded bay,
or sipping a pannikin of billy tea in a
green and shaded mountain gully, and
—blast it! Now I know how a horss
feels when he’s colicky !
THE BALLAD OF YOUNG NICK.
[Ship’s boy on the Endeavour who sighted New
Zealand, 2 p.m. Saturday, October 7, 1769.]
Whistling atop the mainmast the ship’s boy
could not find
Anything in the wide blue world to hold his
wandering mind.
When the pintados flashed above with sky-
encircling screams
He took their painted wings to speed his tran-
sitory dreams.
Below hint on the tiny deck that was their life’s
estate
The swigging old sailmaker yarned with the
bosun’s mate,
He could see the bobbing red caps of those
sailors who were quick
To make a play upon his name and christen
him Young Nick.
He thought about his half-lost home —the giant
clam on the shelf,
A pledge to return with curious gifts and talk
as big as himself,
Tales of a golden people who welcomed
adventuring ships—
And here a strange new music came whistling
from his lips.
O dancing girls the jasmine stars gleamed in
your midnight hair
And reeking oil of coconut clung to the scented
air ,
While soft flutes sang Yarana to the drum’s
insistent beat,
Brown butterflies were your slender hands,
brown leaves your swishing feet.
I’d like to live, the ship’s boy sighed, in that
country of twelve Junes
Where the tall tree hides in tattered leaves a
bunch of crescent moons,
I’d make myself a rustling house with walls of
sugarcane,
And feast on breadfruit, cocomilk and bitter-
sweet plantain.
We might have stayed in Paradise, but, oh, we
sailed away,
And there’s nothing here but floating kelp and
birds —though yesterday
We passed among the gambolling waves a lonely
seal asleep,
Like a shepherd’s dog bone-tired of rounding
up the sheep.
“Young Nick, Young Nick, stop dreaming,”
the shrill pintados cry,
“Yonder a silver cloud has come untethered
from the sky.
Keep a steady lookout on the far horizon’s
glare,
As well as we know a coming squall we know
what’s over there.”
Twice beneath the skyline and breaking cumulus
It shone to give his falling hopes an upward
impetus.
A bright unknown salient speck firm to his
swaying view—
“Land ho! Land ho!” it slowly climbed the
precipice of blue . . .
The nib scratched on an empty chart and a
voice that thrilled him said
“This point of land the boy saw first I am calling
Young Nick’s Head.”
He stood beside the Captain so just but so
austere
And saw that on the blank new world his name
was written there.
The sailors curtsied low to him for they must
have their joke,
The bosun and his gruff old mate would call
to him and croak
“Take care that head of yours don’t grow too
big to fit your cap,
There’s many a high landlubber’s name will
decorate the map.
“So keep your feet upon the deck, you don’t
know what’s in store
When this gets out back home, m’boy, you
won’t be safe ashore.
They’ll think it queer of Captain Cook with all
their names to pick
He calls a bit of this new land after your
head, Young Nick.
“And when they tell His Majesty he’ll say
‘Well I’ll be stung!
Who is this Young Nick anyway? Behead this
Nicholas Young!’
You’ll die upon the block and we will mourn
a shipmate dead —
But don’t despair, Young Nick, for you will
never lose your Head.
“And what good luck it brought the lad because
he saw it first,
A jorum of best Jamaicy rum to quench his
midday thirst.”
But for days the ship’s boy wandered a little
in his mind
hap and hazard the secret of
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.


“M.S.”; “Yes, now you’ve got on your
feet, Mr. Simpkins,” remarked the agent,
“it’s a very good idea getting a bit of
machinery like this. Saves you both
work and time. You’ll find this tractor
you’ve bought from me a wonderful help.
But no\v, what about the implements to
go with it? Plough and harrows, and how
about a trailer, eh?” Dad agreed he
would need a trailer, and the agent con-
tinued. “Then there’s a ripper, for dig-
ging out rabbits,” he explained. “And a
scoop for cleaning dams, etc. And
another really good attachment is the
small circular-saw, made especially for
this tractor. It is a grand thing for cut-
ting firewood. Will you have that?”
Dad looked at the huge woodpile, then
towards the kitchen, and rubbed his chin
dubiously. “It cuts the wood to whatever
size you want,” the agent went on. “All
beautifully even. And it does it in no
time at all. It would prove a great sav-
ing in work, and the outlay is not really
so great.” Dad still shook his head.
“No, I reckon I won’t have one o’ them,
thanks. You see, it wouldn’t be no use,”
he added. “The missus’d never be able
to manage it.”
• * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”; We were snatching
grapes in Mildura and camped in a two-
room hut on the property, and the boss
had two bright and friendly sorts of
daughters who wanted us to go playing
tennis and all that sort of thing at week-
ends. After a while Mat saw they didn’t
mean him any harm, and we used to go
up to the house at night and listen to the
piano and play crib with the girls and
their parents—six-hander, and some ruddy
good games, too. Well, one night the
boss turned on some beer and Mat
loosens up a bit, and the elder girl starts
quizzing him about his sweetheart and
getting married and all that, I reckon
it’s just in fun, but Mat’s not so sure
and he gets a bit quiet. The girl sticks
to him and says “Come on, Mat, tell us
why you don’t want to get married.” He
looks at her, and then he says “To save
me looks, ffhat’s why.” That makes them
all sit up. “One time,” he says, “I was
buyin’ some socks from a girl in a shop
in Lockhart, an’ she says t’ me, ‘Heavens,
don’t look so surly; anyone would think
we was married.’ ‘What?’ I says. ‘Well,’
she says, ‘the way you grunt and look
sideways I might just as well be your
wife.’ Yair, she was a pretty cheeky sort,
but it set me thinkin’ about some married
blokes I know, an’, by cripes, there was
somethin’ in it, I reckon a bloke’s better
off if he can look bright an’ grin some-
times —that’s why I’m dodgin’ it.” Later
on I asked him if it was fair dinkum
about the girl in Lockhart and he says
“What’s the odds? They won’t quiz me
no more about gettin’ married.”
* * # *
“Fairf”: Ted, my cobber, has spent
more of his life under canvas than has
anybody else I know, but as we roamed
through the camping area at Kiama
(N.S.W.) he shook his head in bewilder-
ment. “I dunno,” he muttered. “I sup-
pose they like it this way, but, cripes, it’s
a canvas slum! Might as well be camped
in George-street except there’s no
asphalt.” We wandered on, enjoyed the
wonder of the renowned Blowhole, then
went out on the headland to stare down
in awe at the wild beauty of the churn-
ing sea as it crashed against the rocks
and went roaring up the natural tunnel
in the cliff. From there we were bound
for the breakwater when my mate
stopped suddenly and pointed. Part of
the hill had been cut away many years
ago and an asphalt tennis-court laid. The
artificial little valley thus formed com-
manded an uninterrupted view of the
huge and singularly ugly blue-metal
hoppers towering above the edge of the
man-made harbor. And crammed on
that small space of cracking-up asphalt
were nine holiday tents and a caravan,
“Look at that!” ordered Ted. “They
had to belt their tent-pegs down through
flaws in the asphalt,” For a moment he
stared in stunned amazement, then gave
his final summing-up: “Next year some-
one’ll pitch a tent between the tram-lines
at Circular Quay, but don’t write and
tell me about it —nothing will surprise
me any more.”
“Nice bit o’ stuff, mate."
“Camsa”: Fears of Murray fishermen
that English perch or red-fin, now teem-
ing in the upper reaches, will oust the
Murray cod are quite unwarranted,
according to S.A. Chief Fisheries In-
spector F. W. Moorhouse. The perch
were released many years ago by Vic-
torian fishing authorities in streams feed-
ing the Murray. Moorhouse says that
while perch might eat cod, cod also eat
perch. In 1937 the S.A. Fisheries Depart-
ment released a Murray cod the size of
a finger in a dam in the Adelaide hills.
Perch of all sizes were also in the dam.
In 1950 the same cod was 33iin. long
and weighed 2211 b., and it can be taken
that its diet must have included a lot of
perch. At Renmark they are catching a
lot of perch but very little cod ; it is
believed, and hoped, that this is just a
seasonal change, not likely to be
extensive.
# * * *
“Tel”; “L.T.” (B. 16/1/’52) is about
14 degrees off the beam when he recom-
mends his cicada orchestra to strike up
“when the sun has climbed to its zenith”
in Melbourne. The sun is never at the
zenith south of Capricorn, and it would
be only astronomically possible for the
cics to be then chirping north of Rock-
hampton —if they have the pests as far
north as that.
y/OOP - yjQQp
“Bad Australian”: “Ceg” (B. 16/l/’52)
is astray in his description of the
llama. Llama wool is coarser than that
of any of our long-wool sheep ; alpaca is
much finer. “Ceg” has got the paca
boxed with the alpaca. The paca is a
small South American rodent closely
allied to the agouti, and he is in no way
related to the llama or alpaca. The
Peruvian Indians call the alpaca “paco,”
and the word is used in Bolivia and
northern Chile to designate a policeman
in much the same sense as Australians
use the terms “trap” and “John Hop.”
The flesh of the llama is dark in color,
coarse in fibre and devoid of fat, and is
in no way comparable with the “fat sheep
of Castile.” The llama is seldom killed
for food, but when an animal dies a
natural death or peters out under his last
load of tin or silver-ore his carcass is
devoured by the Quichua or Mestizo ;
other folk prefer goat-meat, which is
cheap and plentiful throughout the
Andes. The llama is not armed with
claws on his feet to enable him to secure
a footing on the ice of the Andes or any-
where else. There is no ice below the
line of perpetual snow, which is some-
where in the vicinity of 18,000 ft. above
sea-level, and the animal never ventures
above that line. The other members of
the llama family, the guanaco and vicuna,
have not been domesticated. The
guanaco is somewhat lighter in build
than the llama, the vicuna very much
smaller. The animalsi are hunted by the
Indians for their skins and meat. The
skin of the vicuna is very highly prized
for its fine, silky wool, but it is now
almost as rare as the chinchilla.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Into our placid lives there
came one whom I’ve always considered
the epitome of the sartorial horseman.
His tailored jodhpurs, shining boots,
silk shirts and riding-gloves silenced
Little Curl, sent Big Fleming off into
corners where he guffawed to himself
and reduced Pocketknife to surly mono-
syllables. He lived at the homestead, and
the boss asked us to be kind to him, say-
ing that usually he was particular about
his jackeroos, but that this one had been
forced upon him by his missus’s relations.
Weil, we did our best, accepted the cove’s
haughty disapproval of our greasy pants
and dusty shirts, and refrained from
mimicking his affected speech—until the
day we heard violent sounds in the sheep-
yards, rushed over and found Little Curl
holding the squealing jackie down and
rubbing what makes the floor of a sheep-
yard into his face and shoving handfuls
of it down his neck. “He—started givin’
—orders t’—-me,” panted L.C.; “an’ when
—I told him—l wasn’t takin’ —no flamin’
—orders from a —jackeroo—the blanker
draws —himself up an’ —tells me he’s
a—pastoral apprentice an’ I’m—just a
common laborer —an’ so” By this
time we tore ’em apart and the jackie fled.
Next day he was missing, and when we
quizzed the boss he muttered something
about the missus’s relatives, and told us
to get on with our work and not have so
flamin’ much to say.
* ♦ * •
“Bo”; Dad had just picked up the
phone to answer a ring when a battery
of kookaburras in the big gum just out-
side the living-room window opened up.
The din made conversation quite impos-
sible, so he shouted to hold on, while he
rushed outside to heave something at the
humorous fowl in the branches, but as
he reached the door they stopped. He
went back, but no sooner had he picked
up the phone again than the din broke
out afresh, more devastating than
before. Again he roared in the trans-
mitter, tore outside and again returned.
Again came the cachinnation, shattering
any hope of hearing anything. “Can y’
give us a ring a bit later,” he yelled. “I
can’t hear a thing, there’s a hell of a row
going on here” Just then the din
outside stopped. “I know how it is,
Harry, old boy,” came the voice of Ben,
his brother-in-law, who had a place across
the river, “but what a beaut, blue she’s
putting on —what did it start over?”
* * * *
“Dicky”: Pete’s nag (B. 5/12//51)
must have been a descendant of my
grandfather’s old Dozey. Manfred
people, coming over to Clare for the
mail, often had a pair of jibs in the
buggy, and when the usual inducements
failed to coax them to begin the 12-mile
journey home one of them was taken
out and old Dozey substituted. Next
morning Dozey was invariably feeding in
the Clare horse-paddock with her mates,
while an irate jackeroo was just as invari-
ably following her up, closing all the
gates that she had opened but hadn’t
bothered to close.
♦ * ♦ *
“Alma”; Perhaps “Old-timer,” who
seems to know a lot about country that
I am vaguely familiar with, can resolve
this question for me: How did Dol-
mareve Plain, between Till Till and Clare,
on the Balranald-Ivanhoe road, get its
name, and what does it mean? To me
it sounds Spanish, Someone else claims
its origin in Shakspeare; yet another
plumps for its being a place in Ireland.
* * * *
“Bass”: Refuge from bushfires (B.
9/1/’52)? As a lad I was left in charge
of a sou’-Westralian homestead while the
adults went out firefighting. Caught by
a sudden shift of wind, I was surrounded
with no hope of escape and my only
refuge a 200-gallon square water-tank.
It was full and on the ground, and I
climbed in and kept my head down, I
was still there when the firefighters raced
back and saved the house. I suppose they
saved me, too, but I still can’t see that
their criticism of my action was justified.
Suppose the water had boiled. Would
that have been worse than frying?
* * * *
“Ringer”; Jack, the pensioner, had
been given a job digging postholes. The
boss supplied him with a tent and two
weeks’ tucker, and gave him strict instruc-
tions, on leaving his camp of a morn-
ing, to make certain any tools he wouldn’t
be needing that day were hidden some-
where, as thieves had been bad along
that boundary road. About a week after
Jack had been on the job the trump
arrived at mid-morning, to find his tem-
porary employee snoozing. He woke
him, then announced that he couldn’t
see where any holes had been dug. “Are
you sure you dug ’em where I told you?”
“Yair, along the nor’-west boundary,”
said Jack. “I’ll come an’ show y’.”
When they got there Jack fell back in
simulated amazement. “Strike me stiff
if they ain’t gone!” he exclaimed. “By
hell, y’ wasn’t exaggeratin’ about how
bad them thievin’ swine are round these
parts.”
* * * *
“E.”: The newchum was whaling into
the pup when Ted came along. “No
sense belting a dog now for killing and
eating a duck in the night,” Ted ex-
plained. “You want to catch him chasing
one and quilt him, or show him the duck
he’s killed, then belt him with it. You’ll
never teach an animal unless you do
something to show him what he’s getting
punished for.” Newie took in the advice
and pondered it through the day. Re-
turning that night he unsaddled, filled his
hack’s feed-box generously with chaff and
oats, gave the animal a look at it, then,
grabbing up the box, he darted to the far
side of the paddock. He was followed
closely by the eager moke. At the fence
Newie dodged up and down a while, and,
watching a suitable opportunity, sneaked
back. Several times during the next 10
minutes he allowed the horse within
inches of the chaff before racing off out
of reach. Finally he made for the
garden-gate, closed it securely behind
him, and deposited the feed-box* on the
inside of the mesh. “There you are,” he
puffed. “You aren’t getting it, see?
That’ll teach y’. Maybe you won’t be
so darned hard t’ catch next time.”
OLD TOWN.
In May-dusk we left the main street, crossed
the bridged river
To the old town hidden under the gum-trees
and wattles.
Its moss is autumnal fungus of floods; it is
flogged by the summer.
Sixty old wooden houses, a pub and a service-
station,
One star, the honey-brown west and the fairy-
tale evening
Are all that is left of its legend.
Its yards smother in grape-vines, red dust, rank-
smelling hedges.
By daylight the broken-down fences compare
with the iron outhouses;
But twilight bids phantoms evoke the corroboree’s
pattern;
And the houses are all incidental.
Is that a wallaby shape humped between us
and the sunset?
And on the burnished river are those a thousand
spearheads
Thrown down from a tribe’s black fingers?
And will the black crow never
Cease its derision over this drowse of decay?
The homing salesgirls and typists, leaving dis-
dainful buses,
Run through the darkness into the lamp-lit
kitchens,
As if an old warrior told them that this is a
place unholy
After the sun has gone down. This place is not
their possession.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


iiH
fi'rty:/' 'J&< ' > ;-vsi
1
Hi 1 *
! Tm
v;.«
sp w
m* j
m
SS*
-
tsr-
SS*5?
%*?:=.:: y.-.frC. V-
IF
«
ii
.NS
MSS
m
WS&SX-Z*'''
name is
(D'Callums
m
the whiskv
Distilled and blended in Scotland
■ ' '■■■■■.
/ ' .%• • •'*’• • .
MIO
m
m
Good Things-
are Always a
Little Harder
to Get
If we ask buyers to wait a
while for a Ronaldson-Tippett
Engine they may be sure that
the advantage is all their way.
You see, Ronaldson-Tippett
Engines are so popular that
buyers are prepared to wait
for them.
It is important to know that
these Engines are quality-
built, from the ground up.
The price you pay for them
means lowest cost in the long
run. Finest basic materials plus proved
engineering skill in design and assembly and
prompt availability of spares give you a "life-
time" engine. Anything less than that is not
worth buying.
vVe repeat—it pays to buy the RIGHT engine
FIRST a Ronaldson-Tippett Engine. See
about one NOW!
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria. Melb. Office: 628
Bourke St. N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. &
Tippett Ltd., Frazer House, 42 Bridge St., Sydney.
Q’iand Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty.
Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
UpsaldsoH'Tippett
ENGINES
• like all the good things in Life
I ~ are worth Waiting for! .
MAKING A LIVING
by JUDAH L. WATEN
ANOTHER journey. But
this time we went on
holidays. Well, not
exactly holidays, but some-
thing near enough. It was the
summer after I had my thir-
teenth birthday, and Father said,
“If we don’t get out of the city
for a while we’ll starve like dogs
in an orphanage,”
Father’s affairs were going
badly again; bottle-dealing was
worse than bad ; nobody bought
bottles and no one had any to
sell. Times were hard. So
Father • had become a horse-
dealer, He bought a few horses
and all the would-be buyers
yawned, scratched themselves,
looked sideways and said,
“Things are bad. We’ll do with
the horse we’ve got.” And those
buyers who could afford more
horses, as soon as they set eyes
on Father’s, decided to go in for
motor-cars instead. When Father
took up horse-dealing motor-cars
were becoming popular.
Honestly, evil fortune followed
Father like a faithful hound.
Father sat about the house for
days and puzzled the whole
matter out. He had an idea.
He would take several of his
horses to the outskirts of the city
and let them loose—they would
finish up in a municipal pound.
But his two best-looking horses
could still be put to some use.
He would take them to a holiday
resort where he would hire them
out as riding-hacks to timid
holidaymakers.
The more Father thought of
his plan the more intoxicated he
became with it, and he was con-
vinced that the timid holiday-
makers were waiting for just
those two horses. And, of
course, there were many other
things father could do at the
holiday resort.
Thus was born a second idea
to Father. He would drive his
cart round the hills buying
rabbifskins and hides and tallow
and what not, while I would be
responsible for the two horses,
hiring them out at the guest-
houses, the hotel and in the
street. After all, why shouldn’t
I help in making a living for the
family? I was no longer a
child ; I had a tongue and a pair
of hands.
Father’s plan mapped out,
every detail well cared for, off
we went to Berrigullen, the
fashionable holiday place in the
hills. In such a resort. Father
said, even if we only ate dry
bread it would still be a holiday
for all of us. Why, even the air
in Berrigullen was noted for its
wonders—it was said that the
old became young, the sick
healthy, and more besides.
WE locked up our house and
loaded the spring-cart with
blankets, pots and pans, saddles,
spare sets of harness, three black
hens, a white rooster and a part
fox-terrier that, properly speak-
ing, belonged to the whole street.
The two horses, that for a change
were going to help feed us, were
tied by halters to the back of
the cart.
P The street turned out to see
us off. Friends, acquaintances,
neighbors came out of their
houses as though to watch a
funeral or a brawl. Some of
them stood on their verandas
and waved to us. And as there
were many men out of work at
that time, a large crowd of
people of all ages stood around
the cart, laughing, gossiping,
giving friendly advice and wish-
ing us good fortune.
It was a warm send-off, but
Father was filled with gloom and
his pale-blue eyes were dull and
sad as though with pain. He had
hardly spoken a word. He
nodded his head absent-mindedly
and stared unseeingly at the
neighborly men and women and
barefooted children.
“Ah, these accursed journeys! ”
he suddenly whispered to me.
“And for what?”
His voice was filled with such
sorrow that it seemed to me
Father had suddenly seen
through all his dreams and
schemes, and his heart had
emptied at the prospect before
him. I felt with him and I was
fretful at leaving the neighbor-
hood. As we drove off, and I
waved to my companions, I
envied each one of them. There
were Tommy and Joey and
Benny, and I thought of every-
thing they would do this day—
the stories they would tell each
other, the games they would
play, the walks through city lanes
and along the river.
My peevishness grew as we
jogged through miles and miles
of suburbs. Everywhere by-
standers stared at us, and at our
chestnut with his threadbare
harness and the tufts of yellow
straw that stuck out of his
collar. It was really nothing
new, for we were frequently
stared at when we drove through
suburban streets. But now it was
different. Everything affronted
me —the handsome, respectable
houses, the broad, clean streets,
the complacent, healthy faces of
the people—so different from
those we had left behind. My
peevishness turned into uncon-
trollable anger when a group of
men and women looked at us a
little too long. There was some-
thing ironical, even contemptu-
ous, about their gaze, and one
woman pointed with amazement
to the two horses jogging re-
signedly behind the cart.
“What are you staring at?” I
shouted. Then I picked up an
empty bottle from the floor of
the cart and threw it at the
group where it crashed into
splinters at their feet. Mother,
startled out of her reverie,
glanced at the people gesticulat-
ing angrily at us. Then she
looked at me gravely. “Why did
you throw that bottle? Where
did you acquire the cultured
habit of throwing bottles at
strangers?”
I was stubbornly silent and
she repeated her questions again
and again. She shook her head
sorrowfully and turned to
Father; but he said nothing. He
was absorbed in his own
thoughts, and I felt that he
understood my behavior. Per-
haps I had in some way ex-
pressed his feelings, too.
WE were all silent when we
drove into the main street
of Berrigullen. We were all too
moody and far away to ta“ke in
the beauty of the surroundings.
The township was like a garden,
with its rows of poplars and
elms, and fruit-trees that hung
over fences and hedges. On all
sides in the distance, tier upon
tier of hills rent the blue sky
and walled in Berrigullen.
It w'as not in the main street
or on the heights that we lived.
We had a furnished cottage in
a hollow below the township
where seldom any traffic passed ;
the sound of voices in that
neighborhood almost created a
sensation. There was an un-
friendly look about our new
house, and at night the paper
pasted over the chinks of the
windows sounded in the breeze
like the patter of frightened feet.
It was the last cottage on the
road ; the bush came right up
to the side fence, and the back-
yard was overgrown with
bracken. Half a mile down the
road a row of cottages similar
to ours stood close to each other.
I had no time to explore
around the houses; I had work
to do. The day after we arrived
in Berrigullen I was to take, the
two horses into the township,
stand near the hotel or one of
the guesthouses, preferably the
biggest and best, and get clients,
the timid holidaymakers who
were waiting for our two mounts.
Father explained everything,
what I was to say and how I was
to say it. Apparently satisfied
that I would be successful, he
drove away into the hills.
Saddled and ready to be
ridden, the horses ambled be-
hind me up the steep track
toward the main street. From a
distance some boys called to
me, but I ignored them. It was
the first time I had taken any
part in the making of a living
for the family, and nothing could
divert me. I dreamt of the
money I would bring home. In
my mind I counted my earnings
over and over again. I could
see the coins stacked on the
kitchen table so that even Mother
would have to admit that she
was wrong and that Father was
not foolish in sending me to
hire out the horses. I was filled
with pride, and everything
around me quickened my elated
feelings—the summer morning,
the sweet scent of gums, the
hum of insects, the cries of
birds, the hot, still air. How
wonderful everything seemed
just then!
But as soon as I was in the
main street my elation began to
ebb. Slyly, fear and shame
crept into me. Where would I
start? I looked around at the
large houses with trees and
flower bushes hiding from sight
the doors and windows, and I
wondered if they were the guest-
houses from which I would get
my customers. To make matters
worse, all the words Father had
carefully impressed on me
vanished from my mind. I had
forgotten what to say and what
to do. In despair I walked the
horses up the street and then
back again. The two steeds were
resigned to their fate and their
heads dropped in philosophical
contemplation like wise parrots.
J STOPPED when children’s
1 voices floated towards me
from the lawn of a long, rambling
house that I rightly believed
must be a fashionable guest-
house. In a moment I made up
my mind, walked over to the
gate, and tied the horses to a
telegraph-post. Behind the low
fence boys and girls played while
well-dressed men and women sat
on garden benches under trees,
some reading, others just chat-
ting.
I scrutinised the faces of the
men and women and I recognised
Mr. Frumkin and his wife. They
were well known to me, par-
ticularly Mr. Frumkin, with
whom Father had for so long
done business. He was now
the leading dealer in the bottle
business, while his wife was a
notable in various ladies’
societies in our district. They
sat stiffly and silently, and neither
of them smiled or waved back
to me when I shouted cheerfully,
“Hullo, Mr. and Mrs. Frumkin.”
But imagining that they would
be interested in my doings I
called again. “I’ve got two
horses here I want to hire out.”
They shifted their gaze and
stared down at their feet. For
a moment I was bewildered, but
the snub from the Frumkins in
some unexpected way gave me
strength and entirely restored my
confidence. I set out to increase
their discomfiture. Swaggering
slightly I called to the guests on
the garden seats, “Who wants
to hire a good horse? Only a
bob an hour,”
Nobody rose from his seat.
Here and there an amused smile,
a haughty stare; even the
children went on with their play-
ing. Several boys made as
though to come over to me, but
they were stopped by the grown-
ups. I continued to call my
wares as though at the market.
If you shouted long enough a
customer was bound to come
just as at the markets.
Without a glance in my


HE HAS
. BUT HE
WEARS
NEO-
BABKEBE
No Pads
No Springs
The NBO-BAEREEK
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2k), 213 Elizabeth St., Sydney
fdg
bringing you better living
' ENGII ShIIECTRIC
MODEL
RBfRfGERATOR
ftSC
B«©t
Eitfcms
I
A
r
crccL
cm
"1
l ill
m mm
:
r °om f or
Wart
%
hod locker
easy lie-frosting
minimum kitchen space
eas'i
t\eawt\l
#
SHELF AREA • 14.6 sq. ft.
4* *
zw
\te o**
adjustable shelves
much more storage space
nW'keeoet
cle 3r-view
Went.
A %%
ff ®% m
GROSS CAPACITY • 8.19 cu. ft.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED
[lncorporated in England]
DOMESTIC APPLIANCE DEPARTMENT • 51 PITT . STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W. • TELEPHONE BU2OBB
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES
with which he hammered and
the red-hot iron.
x r QBODY saw them return to
N town but in the weeks that
followed ’ there were more wild
rSesalonethe forest road and
down |0 = the beach under the
ciiffs and in a smaß country
t ’ sucb an affair stood out
own sucn an a “ a There was ,
naturally, a scandal, and every-
one wbo knew nothing had
plenty to say and anyone who
Lewanything said * nothing.
Ben wen t about his work in his
usua i way , and Honey, more
with friends and
TSSSrtlast, of course, and
after two or three months Honey
left town. Her departure pro-
duced no apparent change in
Ben or his work or his smithy,
and, in fact, a hint of respectful
£^l^iTs^
kept his fearful appointments,
and, later, married the solid,
good-looking daughter of a local
farmer and settled down to pro-
ducing a line of young smiths
and farmers and imparting his
knowledge and skill to them.
Honey never returned. It was
generally known that she had
gone to the city, and her parents
always maintained that she was
studying to be a nurse. In point
of truth, she did very well. Her
looks opened many doors for
Such togs
country towns, however, and
from the odd scraps of news and
gossip about her which filtered
back it was commonly held that
she had gone to the devil.
direction the Frumkin couple
quietly left their seats and made
for the veranda of the guest-
house. I called insolently to
Mr. Frumkin, “What about you,
Mr. Frumkin? The horse’s back
is wide enough for your behind.”
There were a few sniggers, and,
needing little encouragement, I
continued to shout at the Frum-
kin couple until they disappeared
into the house. Then I went on
again with my business cries.
Presently a man came up to
the gate and he stared at me
severely. I looked him up and
down and said, “You can have
your pick. Only a bob an hour.”
His face went crimson. “Clear
out,” he said angrily. “Nobody
wants your horses. Get!” he
added furiously,
I edged back slowly towards
the horses. “What if I don’t
get?” I said.
“I’ll see that you do,” he said
menacingly.
“Well, I’m not going for you,
anyway,” I said, and turned to
the guests who had risen from
their seats at the commotion.
“Who wants to hire a good
horse? Only a bob an hour,”
I shouted, and out of the corner
of my eye I watched the menac-
ing gentleman.
He made as though to open
the gate, and with a sudden on-
rush of rage I stooped down
and picked up a handful of
stones. I held them in my
clenched fist, ready to throw the
lot at him should he but go past
the gate. He stared hard at me
as though to judge how serious
my intentions were. He must
have been satisfied, for he
turned abruptly on his heels and
walked back to the guests who
were strolling towards the gate.
He said something to them as
he passed and they followed him
until they all disappeared. Only
a few boys remained on the
lawn playing with a bat and ball.
I PUT my thumb to my nose
f and shouted derisively at
them. Then, with exaggerated
slowness, I took the horses down
the road again. There and then
I decided 1 would have nothing
more to do with guesthouses.
As I passed one after another it
seemed to me they were all the
same, with their stiff lines and
their hard, suspicious exteriors.
Perhaps I attributed to the build-
ings something that belonged to
the people sitting on the well-
kept lawns.
The horses stopped to drink
from a trough near the hotel.
The air was hot and still in the
broad, sleepy road. Across the
way a store rested drowsily in
the shade of two poplars, and the
creek behind murmured gently.
Overhead green and red and
yellow rosellas flew with a faint
hissing noise from tree to tree.
I tethered the horses to posts
and walked onto the veranda of
the hotel. Under the open
windows of the bar-room two
old men sat without speaking to
each other. They looked as if
they were part of the wooden
bench; and from their ancient,
shiny serge suits I guessed they
were natives of the township and
not holidaymakers. One of
them was idly drawing his stick
over the floor, and both looked
up at me with expectant eyes, as
though glad of any diversion.
I said to them, “Do you think
anyone in the hotel wants to hire
a horse? Cheap.”
“Well, 1 don’t know, sonny,”
one of them said. “There’s a
riding-school here and, besides,
the hotel’s got a few hacks.”
,
“My horses would be as good
as the others, I said.
“I wouldn’t know ” the old
man replied, and winked slyly at
his companion.
He, with a faint grin wrinkling
his face, screwed up his eyes and
with the air of an expert gazed
at the two horses. They look
good horses to me, he said.
“Not as young as they used to
be, and a bit short ol wind, but
I can see they’ve been good
workers.”
I walked with firm steps into
the bar, and 1 spoke with great
conviction to the men standing
at the damp, glistening counter,
“I’ve got the best two^ horses m
Berrigullen for hire, 1 said,
“Wonderful to ride and only a
bob an hour.”
, QrrAl ?
T s?owly"ndTooked at me with
There was laughter and an-
f a ? ad aid ’ Le^°oP ade eh?”
a drink lad. uemonaa. en
I stood up against t
and, imdjtmg the
my glass of 1m _ \
as they held their beer 1 pushed
™| nk cap^f C as i n look ed P around
the b ar On the walls and above
Q hplvp<? i aden with bottles
!^ re sh^^^ d^ Returns of
horses boxers and footballers,
Some ’ of them were familiar to
heroes of b€ -
I could m ake neither head nor
iokes about a party that had
been held in the hotel the night
before And there was talk
about hangovers and how they
, ~ . , t -.a
should be cured. I was afra
to finish my lemonade, think
that so long as I was m the b,
I still had a chance of finding a
least one customer.
1 turned to the mam who had
bought me the tempmde. I
said, Wouldn t you like a r
on one of the horses.
He looked at me humorously
and then put a shilling in my
hand. Without a word he joined
i n die conversation again.
A S I gazed sheepishly at the
/v shilling the barman leaned
over an d, tapping me on the
shoulder, pointed his thumb at
t he door. I hastily gulped the
rest of my drink and walked out
into the sunlight. I was ashamed
to look the two old men in the
face. , ,
° £ * h '“ “ *
"ttSS* “Those bjokes
m there never ride horses They
spend all their time drinking.
You went t 0 the wrong place ’
sonny „
“You’ll never make anything
out of those blokes,” the first
old man said. “They’re takers,
„
I suppose the old men knew
all about the holiday-makers in
the hotel, for they sat on the
wooden bench all day. But it
didn’t console me, and my heart
was heavy when I went back to
at .he tufts of grass under the
T„proaehed myself with my
failure, and I felt remorseful
about my behavior at the guest-
house. 1 had one shilling for all
my effort, and I clutched it as if
cfrdri that even it might fly
& ■ Sitting on the edge of the
k disconsolately
1 g old me *
seen and they i ooke d
. > faraway eyes
° a^ st ™ e t| ™ u n rn '„ ov / r th y eir
silence lay over the
township and the sun shone
d the rus t-red gravel with
brilliance.
from the ground to take
charges back home. The
tw y 0 sleepy timid horses were
ctnrk to me like a tail and they
responsibility until I
~ re t urn them to Father,
main street the guest-
, . hotel’ disappeared
_ ’ si „ ht aS ’ we descended
> track Nothing could
the steep ti .
now delight me. Around me
was just lonely bush, grey trees
and blackberry-bushes encroach-
ing on both sides of the track,
Behind the horses dust rose in
tiny clouds and rolled away to-
wards the trees.
\ WHEN I reached the bottom
VV of the hill near our house
I stopped by a tree and watched
the horses nibble at the dry,
brown leaves on the ground. I
couldn’t go into the house just
yet. Something had happened
to me this day that would take
thinking out. For the first time
I had stepped out into the world
and touched with my own hands
the hard kernel of life-making
a living.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAP TREATY VIEWS.
“The Japanese nation has
been thoroughly cured of the
ambition to conquer Asia.”
This sweeping view was ex-
pressed by John Foster Dulles,
“the architect of the Japanese
Peace Treaty,” after his latest
visit to Tokyo.
While he was there (in De-
cember) the report reached the
British Press that the real pur-
pose of his visit was “to bring
pressure to bear on the Japanese
Government to recognise Chiang
Kai-shek.” The action, at any
rate, was not long in following
the report.
British Press comment was
severe, “One cannot imagine,”
declared the “News Chronicle,”
“that if action of this sort had
been expected British approval
of the Jap peace treaty would
have been so readily obtained.”
The “Daily Herald” saw the
move as calculated to “injure
the prospects of peace in the
Far East,” and, as one more
typical example, “Manchester
Guardian” held that it must be
interpreted “either as an
absurdity or as a signal that
Japan would direct its policy to
supporting Chiang in his quite
hopeless ambition to recapture
mainland China.” The
“Guardian” also noted a report
that Mr. Dulles had “told the
Japanese that the American
Congress might delay ratifying
the San Francisco treaty” unless
they recognised Chiang.
SIGNED BY LABOR
A point of rather odd interest
in connection with the coming
treaty-ratification debate at Can-
berra is that the signer for
Britain at San Francisco was, of
course, a Labor Minister, repre-
senting the Attlee Government.
A condition of the treaty is
that it cannot come into force
until ratified by the U.S. and a
majority of the 10 other
“interested Powers” who took
part in the San Francisco sign-
ing. This, despite Chiang and
all that, is still not considered
to be in any doubt, though up
to the Chiang incident Britain
had been the only one to ratify
(apart from Japan itself).
OPTIMISM
The quoted Dulles statement
on Jap ambitions no doubt
marks the high peak of Ameri-
can optimispi. But on all sides
that optimism in some degree
has been evident in American
Press comment and official utter-
ances connected with the treaty
—rather oddly harnessed to the
idea of Japan as a fighting ally.
Up to the announcement of
the Jap defence budget similar
optimism had been very
prevalent in Britain, too —on the
military side, that is; not in re-
gard to trade.
The fairly general British
Press picture has been one of
a strongly neutralist Japan.
“The present temper of the
Japanese people,” London
“Times” has held, “is against
rearmament; they are convinced
that they cannot afford it, and
they believe that they do not
need it. Even in conservative
circles the old militarist tradi-
tion is at present unfashionable
... ..In the present mood of the
Japanese people, well-inten-
tioned American arguments that
free Japan has the duty of re-
arming to safeguard inter-
national peace carry little con-
viction ; rather they cause lively
concern.”
As another typical British
example, the “Economist”:
* “The present German reluct-
ance to prefer guns to butter
finds a parallel in the attitude of
the Japanese towards rearma-
ment and defence,”
CONTRARY REPORT
The report of a writer in
London “Forttughtly” is in
striking contrast to all such
optimism.
The writer, Marc T. Greene,
is described as an American
recently returned from another
visit to Japan: he was formerly
a special correspondent to both
the military and civilian branches
of the Occupation Authority
there.
Greene’s general view of the
treaty is that “In effect, we have
made an ally of a late foe with-
out sufficient assurance that she
will remain an ally”:
“The West’s need of Japan in
the present critical Far Eastern
position is admittedly great, and
none is more aware of that than
Japan itself. But the question
of whether, in her regained
power and restored pride, she
will be a good working partner
against the Russian endeavor to
control the Far East inevitably
accompanies the conclusion of
the liberal. American-devised,
Peace Treaty.”
The “MacArthur policy,” he
insists, was to “restore power
and influence to Japanese com-
mercial, industrial and financial
leaders in measure that has
amounted to a complete resur-
rection of the notorious
Zaibatsu, which is, in effect, a
nation-wide cartel.”
The reorganisation and re-
habilitation of the Japanese mili-
tary establishment as planned
and commenced by MacArthur,
he further declares, has “pro-
gressed materially” since Mac-
Arthur’s recall by President
Truman:
“But even that is not the
greatest danger and uncertainty.
Who can view other than with
alarm the fact that (as in Ger-
many) control of that establish-
ment is undoubtedly not only
getting back into the hands of
the same group, or their des-
cendants, who organised and
commenced the Pacific war, but
that if is being largely financed
by the aforesaid Zaibatsu?
“And the notion that rearm-
ing Japan holds no danger as
long as she is a willing ally of
the West and ‘does as she is
told’ is singularly naive in view
of the fact that such people as
the powerful Hatoyama, once
considered by many the real
power in Japan, is among the
‘purged’ and again influential.
Significantly, too, the Japanese
National Youth Salvation party
—jingoistic as any of the Nazi
youth organisations in Germany
a dozen years ago—declaims
about a ‘third world war
exhausting both the West and
Russia,’ whereupon Japan will
be able to ‘establish herself’ in
Asia ‘and in the world.’ ”
Pointing out that the treaty
fixes no limits of any kind on
anything, from increase of ex-
ports to increase of armed
forces, Greene also comments on
the military aspect:
“Britain and the British
Dominions, especially Australia
and New Zealand, can only con-
template with alarm but one
more lamentable proof that the
world must maintain itself more
or less in the form of one armed
camp against another.”
TRADE COMPETITION
It would not appear—either
from a pretty wide sampling of
British Press comment or from
the general trend of the House
of Commons treaty-ratification
debate —that Britain, at least,
has been much concerned about
the military aspect.
In general, Britain’s policy
outlook on the treaty, and the
consequent certain return of
Japan to top world importance,
might be summed-up as an
acceptance of the inevitable.
Even Labor member Younger,
who as an Attlee Minister
signed at Frisco for Britain,
could only say in the House of
Commons debate that “This
treaty, little as I can feel
enthusiasm for it, is necessary,
but it leaves most of the basic
problems of the Far East still
unsolved.”
Considerable doubts have
accompanied that acceptance,
but they have been restricted to
Japan’s threat as a trade com-
petitor.
This is hit off neatly in a Lon-
don “Punch” cartoon by Illing-
worth, showing a somewhat
worried-looking John Bull about
to shake hands with a suave
representative of Japan after
just finalising the treaty, and the
Jap saying “Now you buy cheap
shirt. Mister?”
The “Times,” however, dif-
ferentiating between fair and
unfair competition, passes as
fair, and, anyway, something
which has to be faced, competi-
tion in price; but, “In so far as
it is based on the pirating of
designs and similar unjustifiable
practices, it can be condemned.
Since the suppression of unfair
trade practices is as much in the
interests of American industry
JOHN FOSTER DULLES. OPTICIAN
. SAN FRANCISCO -TO/f/O -i
OUR SPECTACLES
WILL WAKE YOU
RECOGNISE ALMOST
ANYTHING -
EVEN M
CH/AH6 W-MEKJm
—London “News Chronicle.”
OPTICAL ILLUSIONS.
as of British industry, this
country’s protests should have
the support of the United States,
which has done more than any
other country to set Japan on
its feet again.”
PIRATING
Samples of the “pirating” re-
ferred to by the “Times” figured
prominently in the Commons
treaty debate. They were pro-
duced by members on both sides
of the House.
Ellis Smith (Labor) said that
in the industrial north they
“remembered the past to their
cost and feared the future.”
Almost every trade-union official
in Lancashire and North
Staffordshire, he said, was in-
dignant at the lack of steps
taken to safeguard their in-
dustries.
He produced two cups, one
made in Britain and the other a
Japanese copy, of almost the
same quality, selling at one-third
of the price. That, he said, was
economic aggression of the
worst type.
Conservative member Air-
Commodore Harvey, who “sup-
ported the treaty, but with mis-
givings,” said he saw neither
hope nor indication that the
Japanese had changed their spots
in the last four years. He pro-
duced a sample of a colored
print sent to Malaya from
Britain. Within a few weeks the
Japanese had copied it for
marketing at one-third the price.
Another sample was of silk sent
to Karachi from his own con-
stituency. Within four weeks it
had been copied identically—
including all the faults.
Labor member S. Silverman
said that Japanese competition
was being felt in Lancashire cot-
ton towns. Factories in Nelson
and Colne had given notice that
they were closing down, and the
owners’ explanation was the
growing challenge of unre-
stricted, unregulated and unfair
competition from Japan.
UP TO U.S.
Submitting that it was no
good Britain’s industry trying to
maintain competition with
Japan “in the classes of trade in
which cheapness and not quality
was what counted,” another
Labor member, Anthony Green-
wood, said that, both politically
and economically, everything
depended on America.
For many years to come, said
Greenwood, the United States
would have tremendous influ-
ence in Japan, and Lancashire
was wondering to what use that
influence would be put. Japan
would be dangerous only if it
had unlimited supplies of raw
cotton, which could come only
from the United States. The
future of Lancashire was in the
hands of the American people.
HOPEFUL VIEW
Taking a hopeful line, “Man-
chester Guardian” has argued
that, though for many in
Britain the first idea suggested
by the economic revival of
Japan is the danger of the re-
vival of pre-war competition, it
might be more profitable to
think in terms of the oppor-
tunity. given by Japan to make
the Colombo Plan a success:
“Japan is becoming again a
great force in Asia, and it may
be one either for destruction or
creation.”
It noted figures announced in
Tokyo by the director of the
Population Problem Institute —
that previous estimates of the in-
crease of the Jap population
have been too low ; Japan will
have a hundred million people
by 1961. Thirty years ago the
population was only fifty-five
million ; the increase in the past
five years has already been
eleven million.
“To prevent these teeming
new millions from seeking salva-
tion by desperate means,” the
“Guardian” commented, “there
must be a rapid extension of
Japanese industry. Can this in-
dustry not be used in part for
supplying the capital goods and
equipment which are the
essential need of the Colombo
Plan and which the West, with
its rearmament programme, may
now be unable to spare?”
LIKE BRITAIN
London “News Chronicle”
draws a striking parallel:
“The economic problems fac-
ing Japan bear an astonishing
resemblance to our own. Her
84 million people must import
most of their raw materials and
a large part of their food. They
are the most highly in-
dustrialised nation in Asia and
they live by manufacturing.
John Bull would be at home in
these other islands. The
Japanese, too, must export or
expire.
“Japan, like Germany, is on
the way back. We cannot
legislate against that. A world
that tries by military and
political pressure to suppress a
country’s trade is not the kind of
world in which Britain can live
and prosper.”
From Britain’s trade point of
view, however, London
“Spectator” has reported that
awareness of inevitable growth
of Japanese competition with
Britain, particularly in the fields
of textiles and pottery, is wide-
spread ; that all responsible
members of the House of Com-
mons are clear on “the dangers
which will arise as Japan gets
into her full stride and the pres-
sure of competition is felt not
only in the sale of manufactured
goods but also in the purchase
of scarce raw materials,”
In his already-quoted “Fort-
nightly” article, Marc T. Greene
reported that already the
Japanese textile industry has
achieved a remarkable recovery,
“even without the benefit of the
provisions of the Peace Treaty.”
Giving figures on this and on the
recovery in other industry (over-
all industrial production 40 per
cent, higher than it was 15 years
ago), he commented: “To all
this the Peace Treaty contains
no preventive and few, if any,
restrictive provisions.”
TROUBLE AHEAD
In a series of thoughtful
articles given to this aspect,
London “Economist” has been
very doubtful. In one it pointed
out the effects of the now-chang-
ing world scene;
“The sellers’ market is com-
ing to an end.
“With the peace treaty ratified,
some of the reasons why the
Japanese have felt constrained
to behave well will be passing.
“In the terms of the treaty
itself, the reparations clauses
open very disturbing possi-
bilities, Broadly, under article
14a, countries receiving repara-
tions are to provide Japan with
raw materials to be processed
and returned to them free of
cost. This will not only affect
the textile industry, but in
theory any other industry with
which Japan is equipped
Under the present proposals em-
bodied in article 14a of the
treaty, many of the leaders of
the British textile industry feel
that serious and probably un-
necessary damage will inevitably
occur to British interests, with
very adverse effects on employ-
ment in Lancashire and on the
British balance of payments.”
In another article it quoted
evidence pointing to serious
trouble for the Lancashire tex-
tile industry in two or three
years’ time; “By then, if the
current trends of Japanese re-
covery from the war continue
without any counterpoise, com-
petition from Japan will be so
severe that Britain’s export trade
in textiles must decline, with all
the crippling consequences to
the nation’s economy that that
would entail.”
MATTER OF TIME
There is (the “Economist”
further insisted) an even greater
difference between Japanese and
British production costs today
than there was before the war:
“The difference is probably
over three times as great.”
“There are,” it has also
commented, “several reasons
why Japanese ' textile com-
petition has not yet been severe,
and in them may be found the
seeds of the trouble which is
brewing for the future. Apart
from the sellers’ market —which
in any case must be adjudged a
temporary factor —the main
reason has been a co-operative
attitude on the part of the
Japanese themselves....ln
general, co-operation has so far
been a matter of Japanese Gov-
ernment policy in order to curry
favor with the victors and to
work Japanese passage towards
a peace treaty and indepen-
dence. This attitude cannok
however, be expected to con-
tinue for long after the peace
treaty is ratified or once Japan
has become an accepted member
of the international community.
The Japanese will then have
much to gain and little to lose
from an all-out trade drive
“It is only a matter of time
—about three years at the pre-
sent rate —before Japanese tex-
tile capacity is sufficient to
enable Japan not only to catch
up on home demand —for a
larger population than before
the war —but to break export
records as well and actually to
ship abroad more than Britain
does.”


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
OSIHJJVAx
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams end Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
GIFFARD MK. I DIRIGIBLE 1852 Construction :
Strengthened longitudinal main spar suspended
from cigar-shaped gas bag. Open framework type
car carrying power unit and crew hung from
mainspar.
Dimensions: Length 143 ft.; max. diameter 39
ft. Capacity of gas 88,000 cu, ft.
Power Plant: Vertical single cylinder, 3 h.p.
steam engine. Weight 117 lbs. per H.P.
Airscrew: Two blade lift, diara, fixed pitch.
Tip speed 32 ft. per sec. Control: Vertical tri-
angular fin on mainspar. Performance: Max.
air speed 6 m.p.h. Recommended cruising speed
5.5 m.p.h. Maximum lift 4,900 lbs. Maximum
range in service, 17 miles.
TODAY: great airlines rely on the unfailing
ground service symbolised by the green and
yellow colours of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company Ltd.
SERVICE
I ATI 0 M
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd., All States.
Telegraphic Address “Airbeepee” Melbourne.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO DAVID RAYMOND JACKSON late of
Enmore. —TAKE NOTICE that DORIS
LISTER JACKSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2927 of 1960 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 31st day of March 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. J. MANN & K. H.
WILSON, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
84 Pitt Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD WILLIAM BROOKS late
of 39 Bellevue Street Surry Hills in
the State of New South Wales. TAKE
NOTICE that DAPHNE ESTHER
BROOKS has filed Petition m Divorce
No. 4683 of 1951 on the ground of Oe-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Seventh day of
April 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from McCAW,
JOHNSON & CO.. SoUcitors. of ISYT
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAJN,
Registrar. __
IN
OF
THE SUPREME COURT
QUEENSLAND.
PO FRANCIS CLAUDE HALL formerly
if 81 Kent Street New Farm Brisbane
n the State of Queensland but whose
iresent whereabouts are unknown.
CAKE NOTICE that an action has been
iommenced against you in the Supreme
lourt of Queensland at Brisbane in the
State of Queensland by writ of summons
Mo. 1288 of 1951 by your wife LAVINIA
CAROLINE HALL for the dissolution of
ler marriage with you on the grounds
if desertion without just cause for three
rears and upwards If you desire to de-
end this action you must within sixty
lays from the date of this publication
mter an appearance at the Regietry of
•he said Court and in default of your
io doing the Plaintiff may by leave pro-
reed in this action and judgment may
oe given against you in your absence
Vou may obtain without charge a copy of
lie writ of Summons and Petition from
WILLIAM THOMAS KING, Solicitor,
King House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DATED this Tenth dav of January, 1962.
—J. J. HERLIHY, Third Deputy
Registrar.
(rrusnbw
ul
i p
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SUNDRY SHOWS
ARCHIBALD PRIZE.
If he is to take a place with
Lambert and with Longstaff,
Ivor Hele has still a con-
siderable distance to go. What
he lacks, above all, is polish;
a feeling for the dignity of his
art, an awareness of life beyond
the studio: something that both
Dargie and Dobell, his most im-
portant rivals in contemporary
Australian portraiture, could
teach him.
The two Dargie portraits in
the current exhibition at the
N. S. Wales National Gallery,
one of Sir John Northcott and
one of Dr. H. R. G. Poate, are
dignified before they are any-
thing else. They don’t look as
if the sitters had hastily been
dumped into a chair in an un-
tidy studio by an artist primarily
concerned with the problems of
modelling and flesh-tones, but as
if they exist against their own
background; really, though it
may be only a studio drape or
some arbitrary effect of color
and atmosphere that makes the
background, as if they haven’t
been painted at all, but simply
exist.
The two Dobells, one of Sir
Charles Lloyd Jones and one of
Lady Lloyd Jones, very different
from Dargie’s meticulously
polished style, are yet like the
Dargies in having no flavor of
the workshop about them. Lit
by Dobell’s impish vitality,
which is never quite the same
thing as depth of characterisa-
tion yet has its own validity as
a personal statement by the
artist, they are highly decorative
works: possibly very pleasing if
you like Dobell’s familiar
greenish - yellow color - scheme,
and still impressive if you don’t.
The portrait of Lady Lloyd
Jones, incidentally, though
rather slight and negligent, has
a genuine charm which has been
missing in most of Dobell’s pre-
vious feminine portraits.
Ivor Hele’s prizewinner, the
portrait of Laurie Thomas, is
almost like a student’s work by
comparison ; and still more so if
you compare it with such a
masterpiece of decorative effect
as Lambert’s “The White
Glove” . . . except that the
student, if it is fair to describe
him as such, is probably the
most promising in Australia.
The portrait looks very much
as if it had been whisked
straight from the artist’s studio
to the National Gallery; the
coat is roughly slopped in ; the
background, though its color has
been carefully selected to
harmonise with the purples and
browns of the picture as a
whole, is as rough and raw as a
palette scraped down after a
busy day’s painting. A strange
elongation of the jaw in the
prizewinner and an effect of
overlifesizeness in Hele’s other
portrait of E. W. Hayward—
though this one has an attractive
garden setting—both contribute
to this general impression of un-
restrained enthusiasm.
But if Hele is, as yet, only
feeling his way towards
portraiture, there is certainly
nobody in Australia whose pro-
gress will be watched with more
interest and more hope. His
fanatical obsession with the two-
fold problem of technique and
characterisation, which makes
his work look raw from the
studio, also makes it look
brimming with energy and with
profound seriousness of pur-
pose ; and if it is sometimes
rough in a detail here and there,
it is very powerful indeed in its
rich and decisive modelling, its
freshness of brush-stroke, its
harmony of color, its warmth
and accuracy of flesh-tones and
in the dramatic force of
characterisation that puts it in a
class by itself. Here, as in Ivor
Hele’s self-portrait which this
commentator thought should
have won last year’s competi-
tion, is a vigorous masculinity
far too rare in contemporary
Australian painting and all the
more welcome when it appears.
Some other portraits worth
attention are Norman Carter’s
solid job of Lloyd Rees, W. E.
Pidgeon’s portrait of Mrs.
Pidgeon, Charles Meere’s
formidable close-up of the Hon.
Colin Sinclair ; also—though
both artists have done much
better —Arthur Murch’s elusive
study of G. K. Townshend and
Mary Edwards’s Miss Pamela
Kendall; and the paintings by
Lawrence Alcock, L. H. Carter
and Graham Moore.
But the exhibition as a whole
is weak this year. If it is too
soon yet seriously to compare
Ivor Hele’s portraits with Lam-
bert’s, there is no painting among
the Wynne Prize entries that
could remotely be compared even
with such a relatively unimport-
ant, yet solid and spacious and
dignified a landscape, as, say, W.
B. Mclnnes’s “The Grey Road,”
which is hanging elsewhere in
the Gallery and which won the
competition in 1918. It is a pity
that a few works on the major
scale which were evoked by the
Jubilee competitions, such as
Lance Solomon’s “August Day”
and Heysen’s big oil of the
Flinders Ranges, were not
entered for this award.
The Wynne Prize, which went
to Charles Meere’s “Never
Never Creek —Gleniffer,” should
probably have gone to Lance
Solomon’s “The Dry Gully”;
but this, though a very solid
piece of red Australian earth, is
by no means Lance Solomon at
his best. It is not helped by
being hung at about the level of
the ceiling ; but Lance Solomon
should look around for more
interesting subjects.
Meere’s painting is a smallish,
smooth and almost glassy record
of contrast in greens picked out
by sunlight across grass and
around the trunks and shadows
of trees by a creek. It is quiet
and inanimate and by no means
disagreeable, but it neither dis-
turbs nor arrests the senses and
by no stretch of imagination
does it approach any major
standard.
Still, apart from the Solomon,
there really appears to be very
little else the judges could have
turned to with any confidence.
An award to Arthur Evan Read
for “Early Morning, Street
Scene,” would, in effect, have
been an indirect acknowledg-
ment to the style of George
Lawrence, while most of the
other entries appear to be
demonstrations of weakness
rather than tours of strength.
Indeed, it seems that the exhibi-
tion consists mainly of hopeful
or dutiful little entries com-
pletely lacking any of the
strength or challenge put for-
ward by artists of other years.
One cannot feel that there is
in any of the current exhibits —
such as Sali Herman’s scratchy,
lolly-colored landscapes with
their odd, enamelled effect;
Lloyd Rees’s descent into the
darkness with “The West
Wind”; John Passmore’s blue
and incomprehensible “Strong
Wind on Sydney Harbor”;
Sidney Nolan’s mauve “Bush
Road”; or Scott Pendelbury’s
overdramatised but cold “Haw-
thorn Quarry”—any serious
attempt by the artists to assert
themselves or their artistic
places.
There are, of course, agree-
able little minor works. Mary
Troy’s “Winter Morning Near
Blackheath,” although it seems
to derive more from the
reds and dark swirling shadows
of the Vlaminck in another part
of the Gallery than from a
winter morning near Blackheath,
is dark and dramatic ; and Leon
Hanson’s “Afternoon Near Kil-
more —Victoria,” although thin
and without depth, has some
compensating qualities of
warmth and softness.
The Sir John Sulman Prize
went to Douglas Annand for his
mural for the R.M.S. Oronsay.
Since it is represented in the
exhibition only by four unsatis-
factory photographs it is very
difficult to think anything about
it except that it had very little
competition possibly only
from George Finey’s shout
of color and pattern, with
aboriginal touches, in “Bird-
wood Gully.”
"The Merchant of
Venice."
Of his current presentation at
the Comedy, Melbourne, John
Alden says that no producer
should disturb the balance of a
playwright’s masterpiece, and he
is quite right there. A producer
is the executant of a play just
as a musician is the executant of
a piece of music, and, as Alden
says, the playing of Shylock as
a refined, dignified figure, a
martyr more sinned against than
sinning, is very far from Shak-
speare’s intention.
Shakspeare took the valuation
of the Jew current in his time,
just as he used the current
forms and conventions of the
drama, and just as he didn’t
scruple to retell any old ridicu-
lous story like “The Merchant” ;
but inasmuch as it was his own
rich experience and understand-
ing of human nature he poured
into it, he couldn’t help but
make Shylock into a living
figure.
The ambitious actor brings
his own latterday prejudices to
bear on Shylock, and makes a
muddle of him. Alden, on the
other hand, is content to take
Shylock as the playwright left
him, and consequently produces
a living figure. In the final scene
where the obsessed old man is
completely humiliated by the
crowd of frivolous, unobsessed
Venetians, the audience’s sym-
pathy went out to Shylock.
The same could not be said of
the rest of the characters in the
story, from the Portia of Neva
Carr-Glyn to the Bassanio of
Max Oldaker; but then they
never did live much. Humorless
actors have added so much busi-
ness to Launcelot Gobbo that
he has almost vanished. Barrett
Fleming adds a bit more, and
he disappears completely.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland,
17NSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
•*— J worry by placing the control of your affairs
in the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent. The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
and attention to all kinds of business and personal
Before you go abroad
take this wise precaution
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OP AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Aibury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton U.T.6
The WILD CAT COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank, Ltd.
Net Dividends. To
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ stg. £ stg. £ stg. £ stg.
1942.. 121,120 116,375 4,745 3,644,451
1943.. 134,356 120,938 13,418 3.657,869
1944.. 138,444 120,937 17,507 3,675,376
1945.. 140,419 122,250 18,169 3,693,545
Currency-adjustment reserve dis-
appears, £1,585,000 .. .. 2,108,545
9.16 p.c.
1946.. 155,323 151,250 4,076 2,112,621
10 p.c.
1947.. 190,920 165,000 25,920 2,138 451
1948.. 200,732 165,000 85,732 2 m’273
1949.. 202,965 165,000 37,965 2,212!238
1950.. 224.310 165,000 59,310 2,271 548
1951.. 218,883 157,500 61,383 2,332,931
* After deducting payments to staff funds.
Bank profits for the year to June 30
last were dominated on the one hand
by an expansion of advances, more
marked than of recent years, and growth
of additional lower-interest-bearing assets
which together served to increase gross
earnings appreciably, and on the other
hand by a sharp rise in salaries and all
running costs, which ate deeply into
the increased revenues, as well as by
central-bank controls and directives which
act and react upon the trading bank’s
p. and 1. figures. These heavier exes.,
coupled with the need to make provision
for investment depreciation and for other
contingencies, resulted in a slight contrac-
tion in the E., S. and A.’s declared net
earnings.
The need for larger provisions arose
out of the fall in prices for Government
securities in both Australia and the U.K.,
and from the fact that the more the banks
underwrite the rise in commodity prices
by way of advances the more vulnerable
they become to a possible break in the
price-structure, especially while costs
continue to spiral. Though the debts
question doesn’t look like becoming acute
at the moment, wise men make provision
during good years for contingencies likely
to arise in lean ones.
After “transfers to contingencies
reserve, out of which reserve provision
has been made for diminution in value
of assets,” the board wrote gross profit
£553,037 stronger at £3,026,930. Includ-
ing provision for taxation (£621,470, up
£94,901) and contribution to the staff
fund (£35,000), exes, totalled £2,808,047
(up £558,464). So there was a contrac-
tion of £5427 in the net result (£218,883),
which was a modest 4.1 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), or 7.2 p.c. on capital alone as
against 7.4 p.c. for the previous year.
The div. was kept at a nominal 10 p.c.;
nominal because U.K. income tax, now
9s. 6d. in the £, reduces the rate in the
hands of shareholders to 5i p.c. p.a.
(stg.), which is equal to 6.56 p.c. in Aus-
tralian currency at the current rate of
exchange.
A growth of £25,906,249 in deposits,
etc., due largely to inflated wool and
metal prices, was accompanied by expan-
sions of £12,537,738 in advances and
£13,961,046 in low - interest - bearing
liquids:
1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £,
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Notes .. 796 796 796
Deposits, etc. 96,978,181* 94,88'9.458*120,795.707*
Other banks, etc. 968,570 3,904,507 4,619,086
Tax reserve .. 638.664 711,107 799,838
Pinal div. .. 110,000 110,000 105,000
Liquids ~ 52,535.280 f 58,569.946 t 72,530,992 f
Advances .. 50,488,986 45,270,957 57,808,695
Premises .. 819,658 934,465 1,136,786
Subsidiary co. 114,675 112,078 176,885
Includes special deposit from Commonwealth Bank,
£17,928,287, 1949; £5,583,250, 1950; £10,568,295,
1951. f Includes special account with Common-
wealth Bank, £30,794,422, 1949 ; £35,211,964,
1950; £44,583,848. 1951.
Liquids include £44,583,848 (up
£9,371,884) frozen on “special account”
at p.c. interest with the Commonwealth
Bank, while deposits, etc., include
£10,568,295 (up £4,985,045) from the
same institution at p.c. Interest paid
to the C.B. on the amount borrowed
from it was £146,971 more than the
amount received in interest on the large
sum which the co. is compelled to deposit
with the central bank.
The co. thus deliberately curbed its
own net earning-power in order to assist
its clients. This public-spirited attitude is
characteristic of the private trading banks
generally, and immediately raises the
question whether they are not in a better
position than the central bank to screen
individual loan applications, and so
ensure that the Government’s anti-
inflationary policy, of which credit-
restriction is a prominent feature, is
carried out with the minimum of disloca-
tion to essential production. The “Wild
Cat” believes that they are, and that in
the long-run more will be gained than
lost by preserving the invaluable flexi-
bility of the Australian banking system.
This flexibility is in danger of being
destroyed by rigidities arising out of
central-bank controls, which are increas-
ingly narrowing and diminishing the
scope of private trading-bank activities.
With the economy in its present fluid
condition, it is obviously difficult for the
central bank to say just how far the
supply of individual credit should be
expanded or contracted in the national
interest.
The recent London conference on the
balance-of-payments and free-converti-
bility of sterling points to a continuance
of tight credit conditions, and other anti-
inflationary measures, as well as to a
policy designed to stimulate exports,
especially to hard-currency areas. Since
sterling is the centre of an almost world-
wide financial system, its immediate and
absolute freedom is secondary in
importance to its stability.
The price of the co.’s £5 shares paid
to £3 each has followed the general trend
of the market. At £6 9s. (£8 Is. a year
ago) .the immediate return is 3 p.c. on the
basis of last term’s distribution. That
is after allowing for U.K. tax and
exchange at the current rate. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £6 12s. lOd.
in Australian currency.
Timbrol, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends — To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves. Deficit.*
5* p.c. 7 p.c.
£,£,£/£> £> £
1943.. 20.172 2200 14,406 16,666 3,506 20,003
1944.. 21,979 5500 14,406 19,906 2,073 17,930
5 p.c.
1945.. 19.250 5500 10,290 15,790 3,460 14,470
1946.. 19.375 5500 10,290 15,790 3,585 10,885
1947.. 20,760 5500 10,290 15,790 4,970 5,915
6 p.c. Reserves.
1948.. 25.160 5500 12,347 17,847 7,313 1,398
1949.. 23.036 5500 12,347 17,847 5,189 6,587
Share premiums, £15,434 . . . . 22,021
7 p.c.
1950.. 30.043 5500 20,888 26,388 3,655 25,676
From dep. reserve, £15,255 . . . . 40,931
Revaluation assets, £183,123 .. 224,054
Reserves capitalised, £101,027 .. 123,027
8 p.c.
1951.. 66,819 5500 34,424 39,924 26,895 149.922
* Formal®, etc. ( £30,826), not reckoned as assets.
Shareholders reaped a good harvest
over the last 18 months, thanks partly
to the care and foresight, financial and
otherwise, of an able and enterprising
management and partly to rapid post-
war expansion of the Australian economy.
The business was set on its feet in 1925
by the Dixons (William, now knighted,
and Robert), who are still on the board,
and J. G. Peake, who is general manager.
At the outset manufacture was confined
to wood-preserving oils ; later attention
was turned to production of refined coal-
tar derivatives and synthetic chemicals
for mining and other industrial purposes.
And a ready market awaited the steadily-
growing range and volume of output,
especially since the war.
When the public became interested in
1941 paid capital was £205,795. At June
30 last the figure had grown to £530,299
by the issue of 100,000 £1 5j p.c. prefs.
in 1943, 123,477 £1 ords. at a premium
of 2s. 6d. each in 1949, and 101,027 £1
ord. bonus-shares last term. The gift was
in two 10t5—14,967 shares in July, 1950,
and 86,060 shares in June, 1951 —and
came firstly from £15,255 transferred
from depreciation to free reserves, and
secondly from a revaluation reserve of
£183,123 created by writing-up the book-
value of freeholds by that amount.
To help lighten the debt and finance
further expansion, 215,150 new £1 ords.
were offered at par to those on the register
on Jan. 22, 1952, one for two, payable in
full on application, Feb. 27. That will
lift paid capital to £745,449 in 100,000
5£ p.c. prefs. and 645,449 ords. The
pref. div. and 8 p.c, to the ords. will
then call for £57,136, or £9683 less profit
than was claimed last term. The ords.,
whose price bracket for 1951 was 525.-
415., sold cum rights at 435. 6d., and ex
rights at 345. The rights were quoted
buyers 135., sellers 15s. The return at
345. is a satisfactory 4.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c,
div. basis. The prefs. at 21s. 6d. yield 5.1
p.c. Including the new issue, net tangible
cover is £8 19s. prefs. and 245. Bd. ords.
Over the last 11 years generous allow-
ances have been made for depreciation
(total £568,489), net earnings have been
conservatively stated, and divs. have been
kept at moderate levels —highest 10 p.c.
and lowest 5 p.c., average 6.7 p.c. Last
term the rate was lifted from 7 p.c. to
8 p.c., which is worth 10.4 p.c. on ord.
capital as it stood before the gift-issues
already referred to.
During the year several new lines were
produced and the output of old ones
greatly increased. Turnover (amount
unstated) went up with a rush, and, after
allowing no less than £173,640 (up
£116,241) for depreciation and something
for taxation, declared net earnings more
than doubled, reaching £66,819. That
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 14.2 p.c. on ord. capital as against
8.2, 8.5 and 9.5 back to 1948. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was 9.8 p.c.
To help finance the all-round and rapid
expansion, £400,000 was borrowed on
mortgage from the A.M.P. Society during
the year, the overdraft was increased by
£77,307 and the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., by £121,301:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capita!.. £305,795 £305,795 £429.272 £530,299
Mortgage . . 400,000
Bank overdraft 112.909 138,051 215,358
Sundry cred’rs 74,833 85,492 126,403 246,704
Final div. . . 15.098 15,098 23,638 37,174
Freehold and
plant .. 160,062 228,570 313,843 718,837
Stocks .. 130,908 214,000 279,036 588,294
Sundry debtors 74,742 83,007 148,783 271,840
Cash .. .. 31,413 305 380 490
Intangibles . . 30,826 30,826 30,826 30,826
Freehold and plant increased by £404,994,
of which £183,123 was in respect of the
revaluation already mentioned. The
growth in stocks was £309,258 and in
book debts £123,057. It all augurs well
for increased earnings, into which rising
costs will bite deeply. When the books
closed there was 245. 3d. of outside
money in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders ; hence the need
for the new share-capital.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Hen ay Jones and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
1942.. 258.465 10 p.c. = 143,017 115,448 1,645,598
1943.. 279,880 10 „ „ 143,017 136.863 1,782,461
1944.. 237,180 10 „ „ 143,017 94,163 1,876,624
1945.. 330,675 10 „ ~ 144,742 185,833 2,062,457
1946. . 215,952 10 „ „ 145,317 70,635 2,133,092
1947.. 327,886 10 „ „ 145,317 182,569 2,315,661
1948.. 333,536 10 „ „ 150,000 183,536 2,499,197
1949.. 329,299 10 „ „ 150,000 179,299 2,678,496
Unexplained reduction, £1855 .. 2,676,641
1950.. 438,061 10 p.c. = 172,600 265,561 2,942,202
Unexplained reductions, £260.082 ~2,682,120
1951.. 438,895 10 p.c. = 180,000 258,895 2.941,015
* After deducting intangibles (now £50,935).
What is the ordinary equity share-
holder to make of his experience over
the last 12 months? During 1951 the
price of this co.’s f,-p. £1 shares—they
are one of the “blue-chip” stocks on the
market —fell from a peak of 81s. to a low
of 645. 6d. The figure had eased to 625.
last week, giving an immediate return of
3.2 p.c, (about \ p.c. less than can be
had from long-dated Government bonds)
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. There is nothing
to suggest that the 10 p.c. either was or
is in any danger. Profits are conserva-
tively stated, there is a wide margin be-
tween declared net earnings and distri-
butions, the business is well entrenched,
financially and otherwise, at home and
abroad, it has a long and pleasing history
as a profit-earner and dividend-payer, and
trading and other assets are known to
have a low capital value in the books.
Apart from the vagaries of the market,
the fall in equity prices is largely
explained by the change in the long-term
rate of interest on gilt-edged securities,
which rose from 3| p.c. early in 1951 to
3| p.c. at the close of the year. If the
gilt-edged market can now be considered
to have definitely reached a halting-point,
then, speaking generally, a greater
measure of price-stability can be looked
for among sound equities during 1952.
As the Government’s new financial
policy takes hold, and while
operating and other costs continue
to rise, H.J.’s rate of profit might
ease ; also growing internal capital needs
would appear to make any increase in
the rate of dividend unlikely, at least for
the present. But there should be no
question of the co.’s ability to maintain
the 10 p.c. distribution.
Of the 24 operating units in the group,
12 are in Australia and the balance,
including four merchandising offshoots,
are in South Africa and New Zealand.
Turnover continued to expand last term,
due not so much to the volume of goods
sold as to higher selling-prices, following
increased costs of fruit, sugar, tinplate
and labor. Australian production of jam
dropped from 60,100 tons for 1949-50 to
52,700 tons for the year to June 30 last,
and there was a slip of £16,614 in the
group’s profit from Australian sources.
But this was more than offset by a gain
of £17,448 in net earnings from outside
the Commonwealth:
Net income— 1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Australian . . £233,270 £198,386 £248,032 £231,418
Other sources 95,598 158,688 190,029 207,477
Total . . £328,868 £357,074 £438.061 £438,895
The £438,895 of profit claimed was
24.3 p.c. on average capital as against
25.4, 21.9, 22.2 and 22.5 p.c. back to
1947. And the subsidiaries have again
paid under protest amended tax assess-
ments on account of the conservative
basis on which stocks are valued.
Commenting on the position chairman
A, W. Palfreyman says:
Instead of recovering some of the lost
ground we see no prospect of arresting the
drift. The recently published minimum
prices which must be paid for fruit for
jam-making will, we are afraid, do a great
disservice to both growers and manufac-
turers We cannot escape meeting an
increased buyers’ resistance, both at home
and abroad.
However, there appears to be a sound
shock-absorber in the inner reserve in
the stocks item, and debtors’ balances
appear less an unspecified reserve for
doubtful debts.
All-round expansion is the keynote of
consolidated balance-sheet figures:
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £1,800,000 £1,800,000
Outside interests* 72,860 79,302 82,515
Creditors, etc. .. 884,438 842,642 1,111,180
Tax reserve, etc... 597,090 684,205 654,839
Final divs. . . 112,500 135,000 135,000
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,096,624 1,160,603 1,812,641
Plant, etc. . . 625,508 706,310 915,480
Stocks .. .. 1.807,986 1,764,779 2,465,842
Debtors . . .. 1,453,177 1,467,436 1,625,422
Shares . . .. 133,664 150,354 213,660
Cash, etc 698,850 1,244,645 185,984
Suspense account .. 29,575 - 5,522
Goodwill, etc. . . 61,464 50,935 50,935
* Includes proportion reserves.
To meet net additions of £361,208 to
fixed assets, £701,063 to stocks, £157,986
to book debts and £63,306 to sharehold-
ings, the amount coming to sundry
creditors was increased by £268,538 and
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £1,058,661
—the last-mentioned item included
£300,000 of fresh share capital gathered
just before the close of accounts in 1950.


Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address;
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
(BElLAX^^^^inhjni^
m
m
m
iJlSilllßi llll
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAINTS—for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 1 moving parts!
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type
nozzle for
ceilings.
Also available
as petrol model
or 32 V. and 100 V. D.C. models for
lighting sets.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Topp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, B.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
I. W. EAR NS HAW PTY. IT
189 195 Pacific JHighway, North Sydney-'Phone X 83950
SUPER MU-METAL
Saves Engine Re-Bores, New Rings
Just deposit RE-NU Super NU-METAL through plug holes, Super
NU-METAL will recondition your motor while you drive. Permanently
fills pits and scores. End piston slap and lost compression. Guaranteed
good up to 15,000 miles and harmless to finest engines. Super
NU-METAL has been proved and tested by over 250,000 users since
1934. Super NU-METAL comes to you in a separate tube for each
cylinder, thus eliminating guesswork. Fleet owners, Engineers, etc.,
use Super NU-METAL. Treatment costs tor 1 Cyl., 10/6; 4 Cyls., 30/-;
6 Cyls., 45/-; 8 Cyls., 60/-. „ „ .
NU-METAL No. 2 lor Bearings* Noisy Gearboxes, and Diffs. Price 29/fl,
Call, write or phone. Mail orders piease and 1/6 N.is.W. ami
2/- Interstate for packing and postage. Sorry, no C.OJD.’s.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return Super NU-METAL to treat a
Cylinder Engine. I enclose Cheque. M. 0., P.N., for
Or send ms an Illustrated Folder describing the action of Super NU-METAL.
NAME (Block Letters).
ADDRESS..
B. SO/l/’52
BRISTOL TRADING CO.
Ist FLOOR, BRISTOL HOUSE, 147 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
'Phone MA 7250 (Near Market Street)
A
O
A
••i
* *<V-
-7
1#
«A
7 /
O
y*
v*.
*5.
A
/ w
/
A
This monster Aus-
tralian-built electric crane
straddling the new Steel
Sheet Mill at Lysaght’s
C.R.M. Division, Port
Kembla, goes into action
like a giant.
When ample supplies of
suitable raw steel are avail-
able, this kind of handling will help to produce an
additional 80,000 tons of high quality steel a year-
treble the former output. Australia is clamouring
for this steel to help step up the delivery of cars
and trucks, refrigerators, ranges and other domestic
appliances. Australia’s defence needs, too, call for
more and more of this sheet steel.
fg
9
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited—Genera! Sales Agents.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon
Street, South Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE' 307-311 Queen Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short
and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON. NX: John Lysaghf,
Bristol Works Limited.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Property Wanted.
GRAZIER ; will take over burnt or non-
paying property. Box 604, G.P.0., Syd-
ney. ____ ——
Missing Friends.
SYDNEY HENRV'eGAN, deceased.—En-
quiry is directed by the Supreme Court
of N.S.W. to ascertain if GEORGE EGAN
(Junior), brother of the deceased, sur-
vived him, or, having pre-deceased him,
left children who survived the deceased.
The said GEORGE EGAN (Junior) is a
son of the late GEORGE EGAN (also
known as GEORGE CONNOLLY) and
late CATHERINE EGAN (nee HOLLO-
WAY). Any person claiming to be in-
terested under the enquiry, whether as a
survivor or a representative of a de-
ceased person, should communicate im-
mediately with THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
10 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W., for
information as to filing a claim in the
Court. Any person who can give infor-
mation about GEORGE EGAN (Junior),
or about any children of his, will please
communicate with the said Public
Trustee.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA — In Divobce.
No. 143 a of 1950.
TO BRIAN WINBURN Military Camp
Puckapunyal in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice
to vou to appear and answer the charges
in the Petition of ALEXANDER PEROI-
VAL BARRON of Launceston in Tas-
mania praying for a dissolution of his
marriage with AUGUSTINE JOAN
BARRON on the ground of adultery In
default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said Peti-
tion proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
an appearance must be entered at the
Principal Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart,
within thirty days of publication of this
Notice. DATED this 12th day of No-
vember, 1951.—J. R. REX, Principal
Registrar.
TO JOHN CAMPBELL formerly of Mackie
Street Victoria Park Western Australia—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife CHRIS-
TINA JOYCE CAMPBELL has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground that you have deserted
her for a continuous period of three
years or more If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your de-
fence in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth in Western Australia
within thirty clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence. —
DATED this 18th day of January 1952.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. SOLO-
MON & HAMMOND, Solicitors, Sun In-
surance Building, 70 St. George’s Ter-
race, Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Public Notice.
£ LEO TARTAKOWER, of Austrian
nationality, born at Brody, Austria, resi-
dent five years in Australia, now residing
at the “Delroy”, Palmerston Avenue,
Bronte, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and -Citizenship
Act, 1948.
FRENCH
[Corn Cure
|> Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
[Anthony Horderns
A>\
TODDY'S PROTECTION
TOMORROWS SECURITY
Fifty-six years of service to
the public is the proud record
of the Metropolitan. Policiea
to suit every purpose.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS
YEAR.
tfae
■ -■
m
■I ■■
m c i
SI
m
s m
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITD
.HUNTER AND BUGH STREET
RUPTURED
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture. A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer»
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
\
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for th«
hernia region.
minal region.
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable strap*
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
w THE RIGIFLEX BELT j
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method”
NAME
ADDRESS .
STATE
Substantial:
—said of persons of real worth
reliability and repute; not
easily perturbed.
Thai is a good definition
of the kind of man in whom
a banker takes satisfaction in
serving. Such a man knows
the worth of a bank’s service
and uses it to the full.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which it amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Norseman Goldf Mines, N.L.
The shortage of sulphur and
rise in price of the stuff have
brightened the outlook for
shareholders in this Adelaide-
controlled co., which owns two
mines at Norseman (W.A.). One,
the Norseman, a gold-producer,
ceased operations early in 1947,
when the grade of mill-feed fell
to 2.64dwt. per ton. Earnings
have since come from mining
the pyritic ore-body in the Iron
King.
To further expand production
of pyrites and test-drill prob-
able extension of the gold-bear-
ing structure in the Norseman,
shareholders put up an extra
£62,500 in April, 1951, raising
paid capital to £187,500 in ss.
shares. Additional areas have
been pegged in the vicinity of
both mines on the recommenda-
tion of geologist H. J. C.
Conolly. Also, a revaluation
reserve of £227,946 has been
created by writing-up the book-
value of plant by that amount,
so “that the true value of the
co.’s assets may be disclosed,”
the chairman says. And the
Westrahan Government has re-
lieved the co. of a debt of
£24,392 in return for the co.
accepting responsibility for up
to 25 p.c. of any ultimate loss
on the Government housing
scheme now in hand at mine.
The board has therefore trans-
ferred the £24,392 to a special
reserve for this purpose.
For the year to Oct. 31 last
72,723 tons (up 23,973 tons) ore,
averaging 22.5 p.c. sulphur, were
crushed for 31,564 tons of 45.6
p.c. concentrates, with a total
sulphur content of 14,408 tons.
In addition 11,581 tons high-
grade ore (32.6 p.c. sulphur)
were crushed and railed direct to
manufacturers. The price was
£l4 14s. (up 325.) per ton
sulphur, f.o.r. Norseman. Costs
were ss. 7jd. heavier at
495. IHd. per ton ore.
After writing off £31,563 (up
£20,204) for development and
allowing £5OOO for deprecia-
tion, the profit was £37,136 (up
£16,361), or 19.6 p.c. on capital
The div. was lifted from 3d. (5
p.c.) to 6d. (10 p.c.) per share.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £120,383 and
current liabilities £49,021. Ore
reserves are put at 2,937,000
tons, averaging about 25 p.c.
sulphur, an increase over the
12 months of 1,864,000 tons.
Prospecting at Norseman has
been suspended to hasten de-
velopment of the pyrite ore-
body. . • , ,
The market prices the f.-p. ss.
shares at 13s. sd. as against
Bs. Bd. a year ago.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
This city—indeed the whole nation —
has suffered a grievous loss with the
destruction by fire of Wilson Hall, which
was a classic of pure Gothic architecture,
one of the very few in this country. The
sunlight on its graceful towers was a
picture no graduate of the University will
ever forget. Even examination pangs,
suffered within its walls, will be forgotten
in the sense of general loss. Gone are
the glorious stained-glass windows, now
irreplaceable, the magnificently-carved
Chancellor’s throne and the oil paintings.
Many great personages were honored in
Wilson Hall. This Letter well remembers,
when a thrilled and excited undergrad.,
the wonderfully - gowned procession
which preceded the present King when,
as Duke of York, he received the
honorary degree of Doctor of Laws, and
how he followed an old tradition and
made his speech of acceptance in Latin.
When Stella Agnes, youngest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Murphy, of
Hawthorn, was married at the Church of
the Immaculate Conception, Hawthorn,
she wore a magnolia satin gown and
waist-length tulle veil attached to a tiny
close-fitting cap, and she carried a trail
of frangipani. Rev. Father Gerald
O’Collins, S.J., officiated at the nuptial
mass which followed the ceremony. Two
’maids were in attendance: Mary Howley
and Tess Reid, both of whom had trained
at St. Vincent’s Hospital with the bride.
Their gowns were of peach brocade worn
with fitting jackets of peach faille. Tiny
matching ballibuntal caps frilled with
tulle were worn, and they carried match-
ing pink flowers. The bridegroom, Elio
Anthony, youngest son of Mr. and Mrs.
R. Taranto, of Hawthorn, had his brother,
Dr. Robert Taranto, as best man, and
Bryan Hoare was groomsman.
Reception was at the Delphic. Mrs.
Murphy, mother of the bride, wore a
short dove-grey jacket over her floral
frock ; her hat was of pastel-pink. Mrs.
Taranto’s frock and straw hat were
navy. Mrs. Dan Murphy wore a frock of
ice-blue crepe with a large navy hat.
Barbara Brynes contrasted her white
broderie Anglaise frock with a red straw
hat. Marjorie Grace chose a floral frock
and wide-brimmed black straw hat. Mrs.
F. Gaughwin’s choice was a hyacinth-
blue crepe worn with black hat and
accessories. A white hat topped Mrs.
R. Slattery’s florals. Mrs. J. Kennedy
wore a navy ensemble, Paula Nicholson
caramel-toned nylon with a black
picture-hat.
“Let’s have a ball we can all enjoy,”
said Lady Brookes, when she presided
over a meeting in the drawing-room of
Kurneh, her charming South Yarra
home. “Let’s use our own silver and
table linen, let’s have a good supper and
a comfortable place to sit, and let’s do
away with the fruit-drink that’s a bright
yellow.” And when Lady Brookes goes
into action, her enthusiasm carries all
before her, as those at the meeting
heartily agreed. One hundred hostesses
will combine for this ball, which will be
held in St. Kilda Town Hall on Tuesday,
March 18, the day Princess Elizabeth and
the Duke of Edinburgh arrive in this city.
All the proceeds—and Lady Brookes
expects to make £lOO0 —will be donated
to the British Memorial Fund. Mesdames
Peter Ronald and Peter Isaacson, Judith
Silk and Anne Bailey will be in charge of
tickets. Mrs. Arnold Isaacson is secretary
and Sir Norman Mighell treasurer.
Floral decorations and furnishings will be
in charge of Mesdames Geoffrey Grim-
wade, Leo Frankel, G. R. Nicholas and
Geoffrey Smith. Lady Grimwade and
Mrs. G. I. Stevenson will head the com-
mittee in charge of catering. Others
present at Kurneh included Lady Knox,
Lady Linton, Lady Hyde, Mrs. F.
Dennett and her daughter, Mrs. Sue
Cecil, Mrs, Hore-Lacey, Mrs. Harold
Rabling, Mrs. Arthur Wenzel and Mrs.
Louis Nelkin. Sir Norman Mighell dis-
closed that the British Memorial Fund
had £lO,OOO in hand and needed another
£30,000, and that the Governor would
launch a public appeal for funds in April.
The money is needed for scholarships to
bring British students to Australia. The
first three scholarships planned are for a
science graduate to work with the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute on virus diseases,
for a young farmer to study agricultural
conditions, and for a graduate to study
industry and industrial conditions.
The cooling night breezes that blow
off Port Phillip Bay make Mt. Eliza a
delightful spot in January. At the Hotel
Manyung Mrs. Gladys Myer, in
a strapless short dinner frock of black-
and-white-check silk, entertained her
daughter and son-in-law, the Hon. Simon
Warrender and Mrs . ’ W arrender; the
latter in an all-white ensemble. The Paul
Iki s ha<J a j ty for th were
cele £ ratin their * si £ er Adding anni-
vers Mrs. Ikinger’s short white linen
frock * was stra pless * the bodice trimme d
with walnuts nd ’ 0 she U s. Th eir
te included son and his fiancee
Lindsa Rat tray, the latter wearing a
strapless white y Also in the party
were Bernard Dowd and his titian-haired
wife Mrs Dudl Gordons down from
Brisbane, was with her brothers, Robert
and lan Wallace Mitchell. She wore a
pastel-green-and-white organdie frock,
j oan Robert’s wife, was in black
organdie . The MaU rice Nathans were
amon g tbe dancers ; so were the Reg.
Ansetts
F ' k Thrj o£ h ArroW; has
d g Seb | tian as , he tron saint
o( theatre> and on the f east . day of
that mar t yr , who was put to death with
arrows, invited many theatrical person-
aiities t 0 a party on stag e. Pearl Copolov,
who was last seen i n “A Phoenix Too
Frequent,” wore a pink linen sun frock
and matching short coat. Val Keast,
wbo bas j ust returned from a trip over-
seaSj contrasted her teal-blue jacket-suit
with a b i ack straw picture-hat. Loveday
Hills was j n black lace. Dorothy
O’Keefe, in black faille. June Clyde and
Daphne Winslow, of the “Fallen Angels”
castj professor Keith Macartney, Peter
and Anne Isaacson, Andrew Parker and
G j ng Charlwood were all there to help
prank celebrate.
The marriage of Pamela Rosemary,
vounger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. I. G.
G f Nariga. Deniliquin (N.S.W.),
and Fra ’ nc Forsyth, elder son of Mr. C. L.
palkiner and the late Mrs. Falkiner, of
Boonoke North, Widgiewa (N.S.W.),
unites two of the Riverina’s best-known
f a milies. Canon A. R. Mace performed
the ceremony at St. John’s, Toorak. The
bride’s gown of honeysuckle-embossed
chartreuse satin was cut on tailored lines
and had a long train. Over it fell a full-
length tulle veil caught with a pearl
coronet. Her bouquet was of orchids
an d tree-lily-of-the-valley. Her sister,
Mrs. Maurice Lamb, was matron-of-
honor and Barbara Ellis bridesmaid.
Their tailored gowns of ice-blue satin
had box-pleated skirts, and blue feather-
wings were worn in their hair. Contrast-
a small white panama banded with
ing with their gowns were bouquets of
cream-and-pink waterlilies. Bill Hanlon
was best man and Stan Bull groomsman.
Two hundred guests, mostly from the
Riverina and Melbourne, were received
at the Menzies Hotel reception by Mrs.
Wragge in a gown of burgundy crepe
and an orchid-pink feathered cloche.
The Mornington Racing Club have
made their course one of the prettiest in
the State, and the January meeting was
atended by many still holidaying by the
sea or who had motored down from the
city. Under an outsize beach umbrella
Mrs. Reg Ansett, wife of the club’s
chairman, entertained friends. Her lime-
yellow linen tent-coat was worn with a
small black straw coolie hat. Among
her guests were Mrs. A. McHarg, whose
powder-blue shantung frock was worn
with a small white hat; Mrs. Harold
Brockhoff, wearing black linen with white
accessories ; Mrs. Bruce Watson, whose
linens were dove-grey, her small bonnet
white ; Mrs. Biddy Carnegie, in a sea-
island print combining wine background
patterned with blue, black and white;
Mrs. A. Hallenstein, whose rust-toned
linen tailored frock was worn with a
natural straw hat; Mrs. Chester Mani-
fold, who offset her grey linen frock with
London-tan to match gloves and shoes ;
Mrs. Guy Barrenger, whose silk suit was
in white patterned with multicolored
flowers; and Mrs. Constance Day, in
black shantung frock and large black
coolie hat.
From Sydney
Michele Wunderlich’s exhibition at the
Macquarie Galleries attracted an un-
usually large crowd when it was opened
by Charles Moses. It seemed, too, that
the crowd contained a creditably large
proportion of the youthful and beautiful.
Michele, who won the Retail Traders’
£lOOO scholarship, sets off shortly for
England, where she will study at the
Slade. Both Michele and her mother
were hatless at the exhibition, Mrs.
Wunderlick’s natural shantung suit being
most appropriate for the hot day. Noted
among the picture-inspectors and cata-
logue-consultors was artist Enid Cam-
bridge, who taught Michele when she was
a schoolgirl at S.C.E.G.G.S.
This is Margaret Fountain, who has
written the words of a new marching-
song for children which will be published
shortly. The song, which is designed to
give Australian children an appreciation
of the riches and beauties of their land.
has been set to music by Bela Doleska.
It has been called “While the Sun Is
Shining,” a name voted by Mrs.
Fountain’s teenage daughter and her
friends as “wet,” so it will probably have
to be rechristened before it appears in
public. Margaret Fountain, who is Mrs.
W. P. Fountain, of Double Bay, has
written a great deal of children’s verse,
but has not as yet tried to have it pub-
lished. Photograph by Hugh Spencer.
“Castle in the Air,” at the Metro-
politan, is a gay If rather trifling play and
really quite somewhere to go for an
evening’s relaxation. It was chosen, no
doubt, as an antidote to the Met.’s last
production for 1951, “The House of
Bernarda Alba,” which was so striking,
intense, dramatic and forceful that any-
thing similar for quite some time would
be too emotionally devastating. It is clear
that this company can put on a broad
variety of plays with equal success, but
“Castle in the Air” seems perhaps a little
less interesting than most of their pro-
ductions. The clothes worn by the girls
were attractive, Jerry Epstein’s blue
gaberdine suit and classic white evening-
dress being quite convincing as belonging
to a millionairess’s wardrobe, and Audrey
Peek’s tartan skirt was quite enviable.
Talking of tartan skirts, is it remem-
bered that the vogue for this garb was
started in America by the first appear-
ance of “Brigadoon”? That was a few
years ago, but the fashion reached us
considerably before the musical comedy
playing at present at the Royal.
What a lot of well-designed things there
are in the shops at present which have
been imported from Italy! The straw-
sandals, handbags and baskets started it;
now there is exquisite glassware —
ornamental and rather pricey you know
—luncheon sets, leatherwork and liqueurs
in decorative jars. It is surprising how
often one hears that something luxurious,
a brocade or nylon dress-material, a
carpet, some upholstery, has been im-
ported from Italy.
In view of this it doesn’t come as quite
such a shock to find that of the four
“English” mannequins parading at David
Jones’ in British Vogue Export clothes,
two have also been (originally) imported
from Italy. Even Viscountess Boyle
(which sounds so British) was Donna
Catherina di Francavilla before her
marriage. The viscountess is a blonde
who, in spite of her sft. Bin., has
such a winning smile that people were
saying what a “darling little thing” she
was. The youngest of the mannequins,
Della Oake, although she is English,
looks like an elongated Italian doll with
a sidelong glance, emerald eyelids and
enough semi-concealed amusement to fit
out several Mona Lisas. The four Aus-
tralian girls, Bambi Shmith, Norma
Geneave, Judy Barraclough and Karen
Scammel, seemed quite as lovely as the
others, and Judy Barraclough was, in the
opinion of this Letter, the most elegant
of all the models. The English suits,
coats and dresses, by way, were beauti-
fully designed and quite wearable for a
special season.
Report on the latest visit of the Far
West children to this city shows that all
put on weight when they were here, and
that nearly all of them learned to swim.
The specifically “city” aspects of the holi-
day always seem to make most impression
on the children, although it is the day-to-
day routine of bush-walks and surfing
that makes for so much improvement in
health. Voted most popular were the
visit to Taronga, the inspection of the
Italian motor-vessel Neptunia, and an
outing to see the “Ice Follie” at the
Tivoli. Exciting, too, were the simple
entertainments which included a walk
over the Harbor Bridge, a ride on the
underground railway and a journey up
the escalators at Wynyard.
Mr. and Mrs. N. C. L. Nelson enter-
tained at an afternoon-tea party on
Sunday to say farewell to their second-
eldest son Jeremy, who leaves shortly to
study at the Jesuit Seminary in Melbourne.
Among the guests were Mr. and Mrs.
James Shanahan, Mr. Carl Nelson, Mr.
Justice McClemens, Mr. Justice Dwyer
and Mrs. Dwyer, j&r. and Mrs.
Alexander McGregor, Miss Harris-
Walker, the Frank McGraths, the
Douglas Joneses and the Desmond Hoys.
In the evening Jeremy entertained a party
of his young friends.
Modem Mrs. Malaprops sometimes
use words that could quite well be
adopted by one and all. The latest heard
is “Oh, I’m a good worker, you know;
once I start I don’t dwindle
Welcoming the guests at the Anni-
versary Day reception of the Women’s
Pioneer Society were the president, Mrs.
Rita Lingham, the vice-president, Mrs.
Wentworth-Grayson, and the president of
the Younger Set, pretty Nita Day.
Although the feather was stifiingly hot,
there was a good attendance of members
and friends, including Mr. Alfred E.
Stephen, Maorilanders Mr. and Mrs.
J. B. McGuire, Miss Mander-Jones, Dr.
and Mrs. Max Halliday, Miss Jean
Garling and the Keith Amotts. Guests-
of-honor were Air-Vice-Marshal J. P. J.
McCauley and Mrs. McCauley.
It seems to be a refined sort of
snobbery these days to pronounce as
many words as possible with the emphasis
on the first syllable. Most of us say
liaspitable, but Fowler’s M.E. Usage rules
that this is as old as Shakspeare’s day.
Not so despicable, applicable and per-
emptory. It needs a little more courage
to pronounce these words this way and
look people straight in the eye while
doing it. The latest word to come under
this treatment was indefinable, uttered by
some thoroughly educated speaker on the
air (he didn’t, of course, have to look
people in the eye while saying it). Fowler
says that this sort of thing is always
going on in English. “In deciding which
of two renderings should be preferred,”
it says, “it may be remembered that
when this recessive accent has once
opened an attack it will probably effect
the capture, and that it is well to be on
the winning side.” This seems to put
the gentleman on the air in the right, so
we’d better all start saying indefinable at
once.
The Women’s Inter-Church Council
has appointed Miss Ruby Moore as
matron of Wybalena, which opens its
doors as a residence for student- and
business-girls next month. The committee
will be “at home” at Wybalena on
Friday, February 8, from 2 p.m., and
will welcome any who wish to make an
informal visit before the girls come into
residence. On March 15 at 2.30 p.m.
there will be a short dedication service
before the official opening, which will be
performed by Elizabeth Northcott.
A fruit cocktail with an unusual
flavor can be made of three parts of
grapefruit juice to one part of passion-
fruit diluted to taste with soda-water.
Some connoisseurs sprinkle salt finely on
a slice of lemon for this cocktail, rub in
and then float on top of the drink.
People who like looking at pictures of
brides (most women, that is) will be
interested in the photographic exhibition
to be opened at David Jones’ Gallery on
February 4. It features 200 pictures of
brides taken by photographer Monte
Luke during the past five years, and the
backgrounds used are mostly those of
the brides’ homes. Mr. Monte Luke has
been taking pictures of brides for 20
years, and is now, he says, photograph-
ing girls as brides whose mothers were
subjects of his first pictures.


PERSONAL ITEMS
In 1911 Jack Webb, then editor of
Perth “Sunday Times,” coming back from
the Coronation, found that in his absence
a lean youth had been wished on the
office as a cadet. Webb in his thorough
way proceeded to do his best with the
material at hand for the next seven years.
Then Webb joined The Bulletin, the
editorship of which he took over in 1933
and relinquished four years ago. Passing
through Perth to and from his second
trip to England—he has just returned to
Sydney—Webb and the one-time lanky
youth exchanged felicitations. Youth,
who is Victor Courtney, now managing-
director and part-owner of the paper on
which he started as a cadet, declared in
the presence of witnesses that Webb was
the best editor he ever knew. Webb
replied that he’d struck worse cadets.
And like the good friends they have been
over the years they let it go at that.
Met in Melbourne, Menzies Sharpe, a
British biologist who hopes to establish
the vitamin-tablet in Australia as a means
to a long life, and is prepared to back
his principle by example. He has wagered
his insurance company £lO,OOO that he
will reach the century, which in his case
is 29 years off. An expert on vitamins,
he introduced vitamin E to England three
years ago. It was developed in Canada,
where it is producing such amazing results
with athletes that he thinks Canadians’
times at the next Olympics will shatter
every record. He’d probably be able to
find plenty of coverage for any bets on
that score, the mighty “E” notwith-
standing.
“Territorian”: Pass this on to the
Korean recruiting - campaigners. One
“Private William Barrington, 35,” deter-
mined to get to Korea with the Australian
Royals, left Darwin, joined up and went
into training at Pucka. For 62 days he
managed to be W. Barrington, till a War
II cobber recognised him for Lieut.-
Colonel W- J. Crosby, 48. Crosby had
tried to get away as Crosby, but was
knocked-back because majors and above
were in plentiful supply. On discovery
he was honorably discharged, immediately
accepted a commission as Captain Crosby,
and by now should be in Korea as a
reo. officer with the Third Royals, objec-
tive achieved.
Cartoonist Lusby on a subject, with
respect:—
As one who has often thrown hard punches
(from the drawing-board) at Ned Hanlon (B.
23 /1 / ’52), I would like to record the complete
lack of animosity with which he weathered
them. Often I’ve been greeted with a friendly:
“Well, Jack, how’s the pen?” The Premier
liked, for relaxation, reading detective stories
or (all too rarely towards the end) fishing
forays down the bay. It was not uncommon
to see him out-of-office pushing a lawnmower
barefooted in his yard. On one of his trips
abroad I remarked to Eric Lloyd, his personal
secretary: “You’ll all be taking it easy now
Ned’s away.” “Not on your life,” answered
Eric. “He’s not the sort of boss you let down.”
To all his staff Hanlon was simply the “Boss”
—and he worked them hard. The first things
which struck you on meeting him were the
tolerant grey eyes, alive with wisdom and with-
out cynicism. But Parliamentary opponents and
inefficient henchmen were often devastated by
an accurately-directed stream of hot-headed
Irish candor. My remembered impression of
Ned Hanlon was during a moving citation at a
Lavarack investiture. After Sir John had pinned
the M.C.-and-Bar on the war-broken soldier,
Hanlon immediately sought out the recipient,
shook him emotionally by the hand and said:
“Any time you need help, Jock, come and see
me.” He meant it —anyone with something to
say could count on getting to Ned.
A pioneer in four States, J. B. Durack,
of Nedlands and Harvey (W.A.), gave a
passing salute to the 93rd milestone the
other day. Believed to be the oldest
surviving pioneer of the Cooper’s Creek
(Q.) district, as well as of Westralia’s
Kimberleys, he had his first experience of
bush life in developing sheep-stations in
New South Wales. Then Queensland
called. Like Paterson’s Clancy, J.B. and
his brothers went droving down the
Cooper, taking stock as far as
Kapunda and Burra in South Aus-
tralia in the days when beef was
badly needed by miners thereabouts. In
1883 the Durack brothers commenced
their epic cattle-drive of 3000 miles from
Cooper’s Creek with 7500 head,
reaching the head of the Ord River in
the Kimberleys three years later —an
unsurpassed feat of overlanding. It pro-
vided material for the first essay at
authorship in the Durack family—a rela-
tive of Mary and Elizabeth Durack
(writers and illustrators of Binghi books),
Mantina Durack, compiled a history of
the long drive. It is now in the records
of the Westralian Historical Society.
With the R.A.N. opening another air-
station, in addition to H.M.A.S. Albatross
at Nowra, the Directorate of Aircraft
Maintenance at Navy Office has swelled
proportionately. New Director, Captain
J. Fitzgibbon, R.N., is an engineer who
has come from the Old Dart with a
wrinkle or two—till recently he was
adviser on air-engineering and technical
matters to the flag-officer responsible tor
the whole of the Mother Navy’s ground-
training of its eagles.
mM|o|e ped(Jer as Fourth Naval Member.
Captain E. O. F. Price, the new mam »
himself navill pl^'T a it
bourne from command of Kenya a 12
6m cruiser Captain.of sis er
ship Mauritius before* a ‘-
director of he Air Warfare Department
« Admiralty, and since the war has
commanded two big R.N. an-stations in
Ceylon. On the lee side of 50.
“H.W.M.”: The three daughters of
Alfred Deakin (B. 9/1/’52) all married
men who have become prominent in
public life. Two are wives of knights—
Sir David Rivett and the new Sir Thomas
White—while the third is the wife of
Herbert Brookes, one-time Australia’s
representative in America. Herbert
accepted his appointment to Washington
with considerable pleasure—because, as
he said, he would henceforth be known
as a personage of importance in his own
right instead of always being referred to
as “the brother of that famous tenms-
player Sir Norman Brookes.”
Qf[ to Heard Hand tQ cook for the
!4 scientists w i, o ’ii b c marooned on that
far-as-it-can-be-flung outpost of Empire
for the next year, Paul Teyssier knocked
back lucrative jobs in leading Sydney and
Melbourne hostelries for his present £l2-
a-week assignment. The scientists can
count themselves lucky—their cook
landed in Melbourne two years ago minus
a job, was assistant chef at the fashionable
Hotel Portsea a fortnight later, shifted to
Ansett’s equally tony Hotel Manyung on
tbe Mornington Peninsula, and for the
past 10 months has been head chef at
ML Buffalo chalet. Back in France
Teyssier cheffed at Paris s colorful King
George V and Valence s international]y-
known Pic restaurant His adventurous
choice of Heard Island could stem from
nbbon j l ® wears “ his
buttonhole—the Croix de Guerre, it was
won when he jumped with the First
French Parachute regiment into Sicily in
1943.
.
Bachelor of Laws, with a University
bJ ue anc j two half-blues ; secretary to the
Associated Banks i of Victoria.
manager of the A.B.C. in N.S.W. , lest
cricket broadcaster and celebrations
organiser; and destroyerman of World
vn tt crtrnp tbp inVw wbicb Erie
War 11 are some of the jobs WHICH Eric
Sholl, presented herewith by Lambart,
has held down in his 44 years. Brother
Reginald Sholl, J., of Victoria’s
Supreme Court, Eric has toured England
and S. Africa with Australian Elevens,
BANKS AND BROADCASTS.
sending the comprehensive cables on
which the early “synthetic” broadcasts
were based ; and he organised the broad-
casting of the N.S.W. sesqui-centenary
celebrations in 1938, the Empire Games
in Sydney and the 1936-37 English
cricket-tour of Australia. Author of
“Returned With Thanks” and “Show-
down,” two musical revues broadcast by
the A.8.C., Sholl got round quite a bit
with the Grey Funnel Line in Hitler’s
show, collecting a “mention” towards the
end. He’s now A-B.C. manager for
Queensland,
“Fitz”: Fifty years ago a young Sydney
law-student haunted the second-hand bookshops
of the town on the lookout for rare Australian
items. His modest purchases were the beginning
of the now-priceless Ferguson collection, a
private library of Australian books, pamphlets,
periodicals and documents along the lines ot
the Mitchell and Dixson collections. Portion
of the collection is now in the trust of the
National Library, Canberra. Its owner, Justice
J. A. Ferguson, drawn here by Lusby, is at
present receiving congratulations on the publica-
tion of the third volume of his mammoth and
scholarly Bibliography of Australia f which covers
the years 1839-45). The previous volumes
received wide recognition as comprehensive
source-books of Australian history, to be set
alongside the great American bibliographies ot
Sabine and Evans. The work grew out ot a
LAW AND LIBRARIES.
bibliography of the New Hebrides and a history
of the mission presses which attracted the notice
of William Cousins, of Angus and Robinson,
who urged Ferguson to undertake a bibliography
of Australia* from before the beginnings of the
settlement. The volumes describe all books,
pamphlets, Parliamentary papers, broadsides and
periodicals printed in Australia or relating m
any way to Australia, wherever printed. Another
of his books (written with H. M. Green and
Mrs. A. G. Foster) tells the story of George
and Robert Howe, early Australian printers.
Born 70 years ago at Invercargill (N.Z.), Judge
Ferguson is the son of the late Rev. John
Ferguson, a Presbyterian minister who crossed
the Tasman to St. Stephen’s, Sydney. The son,
after a brilliant career at Sydney University,
was called to the bar, and in 1936 was elevated
to the N.S.W. Industrial Commission. A past-
president and Fellow of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society, since 1935 he has
been a trustee of the N.S.W. Public Library,
and recently retired from the presidency of the
Captain Cook Landing Place Trust and the
La Perouse Memorial Trust. George Ferguson,
a director of Angus and Robertson, is a son
by his first marriage to a daughter of the late
George Robertson of that firm.
Both New Zealand Rhodes Scholars
for 1952 are products of Otago Uni-
versity. G. H. Jeffries will study
neurology at Oxford before joining the
neurophysiological team of Australian
Hugh Cairns, Professor of Surgery.
A high-jumper, Jeffries represented
New Zealand against Australia in
1949, and at the Empire Games in 1950.
H. C. Templeton completed his B.A.
degree last year. History and cricket are
his meat.
Passed on in Adelaide, grand old-timer
Tom Pearce, “Mine Host” of We of
the Never-Never, keeper of the pub at
Katherine when Mrs. Gunn met him.
Son of the first manager of Mount Ebor
station, Tom started out on his own at
20 through wild country to open up a
property. Economic conditions beat him,
he took on well-sinking, and then applied
his almost legendary strength to a con-
tract for 200 miles of the North-South
telegraph-line. Still-remembered in the
Territory is his swim, three times, across
the flooded Katherine River to repair the
telegraph that brought Australia to within
hours of London. Later he did open up a
property, at Willeroo, restocked it with
cattle from Queensland and Arab and
Suffolk Punch horses, regrassed it with
special seed from S. Africa and grew
tropical fruits brought from Cairns. He
sold out at considerable profit to Sir
William Vestey. Eighty-nine at the end.
Knight Charles George Latham
succeeds the late G. B. Wood as Wes-
tralian Minister for Agriculture. A
dignified six-footer, he is, like his pre-
decessor, a man of considerable political
experience and a practical farmer. Born
in England, Latham came out to N.S.W.
as a boy, but soon took Horace Greeley’s
advice, moved west and started farming in
the Narembeen district. Joining the
Country party almost at its inception,
he was elected M.L.A. for York in 1921,
holding the seat till he went to the Senate
in 1942. Successive political posts were
leader of the C.P., Lands and Health
Minister and Leader of the Opposition.
The Federal election of 1943 gave him
the job of ex-Senator; in the three years
he was out of politics he was deputy-
director of Commonwealth loans, doing
the job so well that he received the
accolade in 1948. A Legislative Council
by-election sent him back to State Par-
liament in 1946, in which he represents
the Central Province. Since 1950 he has
held the State Deputy-Directorship of
Recruiting—gaining his first experience
of the office by enlisting in the 16th
Battalion to have his go against the
Kaiser.
Ivor Hele, who netted this year’s Archi-
bald Prize, made his first attempts at the
age of eight under Jimmy Ashton. After-
wards polished in Paris and Munich, on
return he taught for a time at the South
Australian School of Arts and Crafts.
Winner of several important historical-
subject prizes (among them the Common-
wealth prize for his depiction of Sturt’s
decision to abandon his Centralian
Hele was appointed official
war artist in 1941 (private at the time),
and turned in some very graphic pictures
of Diggers at work. Late last year he
was commissioned to hang, in oils, Senate
president Mattner and Speaker Cameron
in King’s Hall, Canberra. Now nudging
40, still hefty, he’s a strong swimmer,
and in his day could handle boxing-
gloves as well as a paint-brush.
Nuffield Dominion Travelling Fellow-
ships, worth 12 months in the U.K., go
to; Medico D. Kerr Grant (Adelaide),
R.A.N. surgeon in War 11, now clinical
researcher at Sydney’s Royal Prince
Alfred. D. S. Stuckey (Sydney), A.A.M.C.
captain in the same show, now clinical
tutor at Sydney’s Royal North Shore.
Cardiology’s his speciality. K. J. Back
(Sydney), lecturer in bacteriology at
Queensland University. Doctor of Philo-
sophy T. O. Browning (Adelaide), pro-
duct of The King’s School, Paramatta,
had five years with the 2nd A.I.F. Since
1948 lecturer in entomology at Adelaide
University. B. E, Mansfield (Sydney)
took both B.A. and M.A. degrees with
first-class honors at Sydney University,
as well as the University Medal in his-
tory. Political ideas and European history
between the 15th and 18 th centuries are
his loves. C. J. O’Brien (Sydney) also
owns to first-class honors (English litera-
ture) in both his Arts degrees, and has
been lecturing in his subject at the New
England University College since 1947.
He’ll study biographical development of
the 17th century. Average age of the six
is 30.
Having been a fisher of men for close
on half-a-century, the Very Rev. William
Edward Barrett is to retire to fishing for
fishes, his favorite pursuit out of church.
Dean of Brisbane since 1932, born in
Liverpool (Eng.), son of Sir William
Barrett, the Dean joined the Bush
Brotherhood at Charleville in western
Queensland not long after landing in
1904, and returned to England to join the
8.E.F., chaplain, in the Kaiser’s show. A
testimonial fund has been opened; sub-
scriptions can be sent to the Precentor of
St. John’s Anglican Cathedral, Brisbane.
Into the Silence:
At 74, in Perth, Douglas Clive Braham, one
of Westralia’s best-known Turf identities, who
made his first contact with racing when he
founded a small sporting weekly early in the
century. His views on handicapping attracted
so much notice that he was appointed handi-
capper of the W.A. Trotting Association when
that body was formed; he afterwards became
chairman of stewards. In 1916 he left the
W.A.T.A. for the W.A. Turf Club, where he
repeated his performance by becoming first
handicapper and then chairman of stewards,
holding the latter office right to the end. Some
of his suggestions on handicapping and other
matters became Australian rules of racing.
In Sydney, at 78, grazier Charles Gustavus
Murray, of Milrea, Walgett (N.S.W.). Member
of an old north-western pastoral family, he
raced several good horses, among them the
champion steeplechaser Sixteen Annas.
Died in harness, at 63, after collapsing at a
Cabinet meeting, Westralia’s Minister for Agri-
culture and the North-West, Garnet Barrington
Wood. Railway-clerk and station-overseer before
settling down to farming in the York and
Katanning districts, he knew his native State
from one end to the other, and brought prac-
tical knowledge and experience to the problems
of his department.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 62, Captain A.
Mclntosh, for the past two years marine
superintendent of the Shaw Savill Line in New
Zealand. With the 9th Cruiser Squadron in
the Atlantic in War I, in 1926 he took the
Kia Ora across the Pacific after a fire had
broken out, and, much knocked about, brought
her into Monte Video after a hard fight. Lloyds
commended him for the feat.
At 56, in Adelaide, Lancelot James McLeay,
who won M.M. at Bullecourt while a stretcher-
bearer with the 4th and 12th Field Ambulance
He was brother to John McLeay, one-time Lord
Mayor of Adelaide, now Federal member for
Boothby (S.A.), who won a similar medal while
streatcher-bearing in the same war; and to
Senator George McLeay, Shipping and Trans-
port Minister.
In London, at 61, Herbert Rowland Watson,
chairman last year of the British Empire Pro-
ducers’ Organisation, and, as C.S.R. representa-
tive in London, a most able negotiator for the
Australian and Fijian sugar industries. As the
industry’s representative in recent trade talks
he had a large hand in the successful agreement
whereby Australia and Fiji obtain £32 10s. stg.
a ton for their surplus sugar.


V
V
5% DDT
HOUSEHOLD SPRAY
Z 7
M
Jt.
*
\
DOESN'T GIVE FLIES AND HOUSEHOLD
PESTS A CHANCE —ABSOLUTELY THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST SPRAY AVAILABLE
Rut ox kills flies. Rutox kills mosquitoes. Rutox kills fleas. You don't waste
spray in the air— Rutox all surfaces where insects appear—windows, lamp
shades, carpets, lounges, picture rails, walls, W.C.'s. Rutox remains deadly
to insects—harmless to humans. Buy it in every size from pints to 44-gallon
drums.
A Product of: TAUBMANS CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE « BRISBANE . ADELAIDE • PERTH
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Merinos Under Test.
‘R.N.”: The C.S.I.R.O. is
testing four strains of Merinos
under the same climatic, pasture
and management conditions at
its Cunnamulla (Q.) and Armi-
ne and Deniliquin (N.S.W.)
stations. Aim is to find, among
other things, the “interaction”
between strain and environ-
ment. It will take some years to
complete the full tests.
Strains being used are {a)
fine-wool non-Peppins from the
N.S.W. north-west, ( b ) medium
non-Peppins from the Macquarie
River, (c) strong non-Peppins
from South Australia and ( d)
medium Peppins from Riverina
and the Macquarie. Cunna-
mulla is in the 14in. rain-belt of
south-west Queensland, where
the usual stocking is a sheep to
five acres ; Armidale is on the
New England highlands, with a
32in. rainfall, one dry sheep to
the acre and more on improved
pasture; Deniliquin is in wes-
tern Riverina, 16in. rainfall, hot
and dry summers, about a sheep
to three acres.
Results apparent so far are
that strong-wool S.A. sheep at
both Cunnamulla and Armidale
have consistently produced more
lambs than sheep of the other
strains. Lambs of this strain
have also had higher weaning
weights. Fleece weights have
been consistently higher,
although at Armidale in both
1949 and 1950 the strong-wool
fleeces showed much greater
fault than the medium and fine
wools.
Each strain at Armidale in
1949 and 1950 produced fleeces
with a higher yield than those
cut at Cunnamulla, a difference
probably due in part to the
higher rainfall at Armidale
washing out some of the yolk
and partly because the Cunna-
mulla wool carried more dust
and vegetable matter.
The fibre-density population
for the same strain of sheep
varied by as much as 1000 fibres
per square centimetre between
the two locations due to nutri-
tional differences, the Cunna-
mulla sheep at time of sampling
being in much better condition
than the Armidale sheep. The
fibre diameter of the wool from
each strain was consistently
greater at Cunnamulla, again
indicating that this environment
was much more favorable than
that experienced at Armidale in
this period.
On Fossil Downs.
“F.H.”: Fossil Downs is a
million-acre property in the
heart of the Kimberleys, run-
ning 18,000 cattle. Though
many ZV5 bullocks are treated
at Broome, Wyndham and
Glenroy, the greater portion is
marketed in Perth. This entails
a walk of 230 miles from the
station to the cattle port of
Derby, thence a boat trip of
days to Fremantle.
In 1935, to cut down bruis-
ing during the long trip to
market. Fossil Downs began
dehorning steers and male calves,
discontinuing the practice in
1940 when it was found that,
although raised and fattened to-
gether and only separated before
being loaded in Derby, the de-
horned bullocks failed to attain
the same weight on maturity as
Shorthorns of the same age
which had not been dehorned.
During the five years 1935 to
1940, average price of dehorned
bullocks was 13s. 9d. a head be-
low that for the horned bullocks.
In this period Fossil Downs
began breeding the horns off
naturally, and in 1946 the first
consignments of natural polls
were marketed. Once again both
“I'm not takin' any risks. I lorst me ’at in a
willy-willy once.”
types were raised and fattened
together and were drafted off
prior to yarding in Derby. In
the four years 1946 to 1949 only
833 Poll Shorthorns were sold
by Fossil Downs in the Perth
market. They gained top average
by 11s. 2d. per head. In 1950
the polls topped the average of
the hornies by £1 9s. 6d. a head.
The 1951 season showed a
further increase in the value of
the polls by an average of
£1 10s. 6d. a head throughout.
Now, according to W. Mac-
Donald, manager, the F.D. Poll
Shorthorn stud is supplying
bulls to neighboring N.T.
stations.
Elephant-grass.
“Bill C.”: Elephant-grass
must be regarded as one of the
most drought-resistant grasses
introduced into Australia,
It comes from Africa, and
is favored for beef-cattle in
Hawaii and elsewhere. Queens-
land graziers have often con-
demned it as being too tough
and coarse, but it is really good
if grazed or chaffed when short.
It will grow up to 12ft. with
thick canes; then stock will
only nibble the top leaves. At
less than 4ft. canes and leaves
are soft and succulent, contain-
ing up to 25 per cent, of crude
protein, and stock can eat the
lot.
The grass has stood up re-
markably well to the droughts
that occur regularly along the
Queensland central coast. In
this area the wet seasons are
heavy but short, followed by
nine months with often less than
lOin. of rain. This grass needs
a well-distributed rainfall and
shelter from frost.
I have seen it growing freely
on stony hillsides, on sand or
black-soil flats and on poor,
light forest soils. Its food-value,
however, is better when it is on
good soil.
Propagation is by root-divi-
sion, since the seed is very small
and dustlike and unreliable in
germinating. Or hard canes may
be planted in rows like sugar-
cane setts.
Another “Ca 11 .,,
“C.S.”: Central Queensland
Advancement League, of Rock-
hampton, has considered the
current and past droughts and
believes that the job of providing
drought feed calls for large-scale
action. It invites comment from
Queenslanders and others on the
following seven points which, it
believes, could lead to some-
thing.
1. That a co-operative association
be formed to buy fodder in good
seasons at a guaranteed price which
would cover cost plus fair profit, and
sell to farmers at cost in dry times.
2. The association to buy the
machinery for large-area ploughing,
harvesting and transport, employ men
to operate and maintain it, and do
the work on a contract basis for
farmers.
3. The association to provide
storage.
4. The fodder handled could in-
clude lucerne, panicum, Sudan, milo,
Rhodes-grass hay, oats and other suit-
able crops.
5. The project could deal with
irrigated and dry-farming crops.
6. Co-operative butter factories
could help in organising, and even
tfe the nucleus of the one or more
associations.
7. The Department of Agriculture
would be in the project, while the
assistance of the Agricultural and
Commonwealth banks would be neces-
sary to finance the machinery and
crops up to a certain point.
Don’t tell me; tell the
C.Q.A.L.
Fattening and Breeding.
“Oxo”: L. McLennan, who
manages Cypress Downs (Q.),
says the acute shortage of fat
cattle this season has made crop-
fattening profitable, but the
cattle were sold on a rising home
market and not on the alleged
security prices of the 15-years
meat agreement with the U.K.
Six hundred acres of Cypress
Downs were put under oats for
the 1947 winter, and the 1200
acres now under cultivation are
used mainly for crop-fattening
of bullocks. Crop-fattening in
Queensland would be worth
while, even at present costs. An
acre of oats would yield 1001 b.
of beef per season, for which
the export return would be
£5 10s. It cost many Darling
Downs farmers £5 to cultivate
and sow an acre of winter oats,
yet the cost of production of
beef was based on grass, the
cheapest form of feed. During
droughts, however, dependence
on grass was disastrous.
The director of Armour’s
livestock bureau in Chicago
(U.S.A.), Col. Edward N.
Wentworth, thinks Australia has
no need for the pure Zebu, but
the part Zebus —Santa Ger-
trudis, Brangus and Brahford
breeds—should all be tried on a
small scale until experience is
gained with each.
In the face of the world short-
age of beef, which he predicts
will become even more acute,
he thought European markets
would take the meat of those
breeds as well as they do that
of present types.
Interviewed by A.B.C. in
Chicago, Col. Wentworth said
the most undesirable defect of
Zebu cattle was in the shape of
the cuts. The muscling was less
plump in the “eye” of beef
along the back ; the loin was not
so thick at the edge, and the
rump was not carried back as
well, while the lower ribs and
plate were usually smaller.
Wentworth said his experience
in Brazil was that disease con-
ditions there were such that
nearly pure Zebu stock had to
be maintained, for the British
breeds were so handicapped by
disease that they lost all advan-
tage of their better conforma-
tion. Australia faced no such
problem, so the possible breeds
to be considered for Australia
were the new breeds carrying i
to | Zebu blood.
In Australia most beef cattle
are bred out on the station, and
it would be many years before
we could work Santa Gertrudis
on the profitable cow-and-calf
basis adopted in parts of the
U.S.A.
Experiments on the ranges in
America had shown the benefits
to both pasture and animals of
conservative stocking, A. M.
Stewart, Institute of Agriculture
(W.A.), told a Brisbane audi-
ence. Range research-officers
recommended consumption of
not more than 70 per cent, of
annual fodder-production, and
the running of stock according
to the condition of the more
palatable “indicator” plants,
those which were the first to
suffer from overstocking.
In Mexico, when stocking
was adjusted to feed-supply,
cows averaged 10001 b., the calf-
drop was 90 per cent, and calf-
weight at weaning 4001 b. When
the same quantity of feed was
consumed by 30 per cent, more
cattle the cows weighed 650-
7001 b., calf-drop was only 40
per cent, and weaning weight
under 3001 b.
At the U.S. 200,000-acre
Jonnedo Desert research station
(New Mexico), by reducing the
stock carried from 2700 to
about 1100, the calf-drop was
raised from 65 to 83.5 p.c., and
production per cow increased
from 3001 b. to 3651 b. More
beef was marketed from the
range over a 10-year period,
yearly production was constant
and the pasturage improved
steadily in growth and quantity
Stewart holds that stud-
breeders ignore milking-capacity
for the capacity to put on flesh,
though a good milking-capacity
was essential for the top growth
of beef calves. Analytical
studies had shown that high
fertility was an important factor
of success. A calf crop of 70
per cent, calves weaned was
considered necessary to avoid
financial loss, and 90 per cent,
calf-drop with over 80 per cent,
weaned was regarded as the
goal. Although some cows and
bulls were naturally of low
fertility, improper and made-
quate nutrition was by far the
commonest cause of it in herds.
On the San Joaquin range
(California) breeding stock
which received supplements
during the autumn of 11b. to 21b.
per head per day of cotton-seed
cake produced 83 per cent, of
weaned calves from 90 per cent,
of pregnancies ; those receiving
no supplements averaged only
67y per cent, of weaned calves
from 77 per cent, of pregnancies.
Laying Tiles.
“A-Jay”: If laying tiles in
hand-dug trenches, be sure they
are laid on a firm surface, often
a hard job in mud. The trench
should be finished from the
surface, using a push-type scoop
with a long handle to make a
shallow U-shaped groove to fit
the tile, and the tiles laid with
a tile-hook to avoid walking in
the trench or along the top of
the newly-laid tiles. See that no
gap of any size is left between
them.
The junction of two tile-lines
is preferably made with the
special Y-junction tiles available.
These largely do away with the
time-consuming chipping and
cutting of tiles. Where junction-
tiles are not used the lateral
should be curved slightly to
meet the main drain at an angle
of about 60deg. Right-angle
junctions slow down the flow of
water and tend to cause silting.
French Beans.
“Hortus”; Much damage has
been caused to this crop on
N.S.W. northern tablelands
during the past season by pod-
spot or anthracnose. It is most
conspicuous on the pod, but is
also found on stems and leaves.
Continued wet weather and
heavy dews favor its spread.
Spots are darkish, a little
sunken, circular, with a pinkish
circumference.
Guard against it by using only
seed certified by the Department
of Agriculture. Disinfect all
seed before sowing. Use loz. of
corn. sublim. or mercuric
chloride in of water,
soak the seed for 10 minutes;
or a formalin solution, loz. of
commercial formaldehyde to
2gals. of water, soak the seed
for 20 minutes.
Don’t sow any bean that is
discolored. When plants are up
don’t cultivate or handle them
when they’re wet from rain or
dew. Spores are scattered when
wet. Pull out any plant which
shows signs of disease and burn
it.
If spot has appeared, burn all
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
End of January and early February under the cycle
show some moderate rains, mainly coastal; in mid-February
there may be a moderate cyclonic storm over the Darling
Downs, south-east Queensland, N.S.W. northern rivers and
the coast down to Sydney. Extension inland will die out
as the far west is approached.


CRONULLA'S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom,
Licensed Restaurant.
Ui 5923
Under Entirely New Management.
CINZANO
m. SWEETand DRY
wsf.
MV
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest lectures
cl hiqh-priced Imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ot their cost. The
"National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typinq. Writinq. Plans,
Music, etc.
BmlLt entirely tm Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SIDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street. Sydney.
ftl YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
3&'All-SRITiS«
Jk JM AIL’BRU i slf
foiwau
%
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. LtcL*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne ond Sydney
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
reg H-f
,x - -'
Slftlr
H
» liiiim’itirmiv'-
ilfiHM 11 < w! :
1 IpM 11 i.KWi »i
}lijr
1 r;r in.-
I J
Modern high-class accommodation at a
cold water and telephone in all rooms.
moderate tariff. Hot and
Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONIiY KATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE "
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
. v V v
Esdaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
• Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system,
Q Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
G Very long eye relief,
Q Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion —Eye relief 3|in.
to s£in. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23ift. per
100 yards.
Telegrams
“Esdailson
Sydney.
BW 8631.
fg
AHO SONS
PTY. LTD.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
We’ve widened
our range of sheet
steels, too!
During the post-war period the
demand for sheet steel has multi-
plied many times. As a result
the Lysaght organisation is pro-
ducing to-day not only Lysaght’s
Galvanized Iron and Zincanneal,
but also many new types of
electrical, carbon and special
quality steel sheets designed to
meet the demands of Australia's
defence programme and growing
secondary industries. The range
and volume will be increased
even further as the company’s
giant £8,000,000 expansion pro-
gramme is completed within the
next few years!
"Crowing with
Australia" )
• .
John Lysoght
(Australia) Ply. Ltd.
•> •'<£. JiiBSUNC.
rpcs*j^T.|.
residue of the crop instead of
ploughing it under. Go in for
a good rotation crop to rid the
soil of disease.
A preventive is to spray the
growing crop with Bordeaux
(6-4-100). First when the first
true leaves are unfolding and
again two weeks later, with a
final spray when the young pods
are setting.
Nothing does more to prevent
disease attacking beans than to
keep the plants moving along all
the time by applying fertiliser
along the rows and watering.
Shade Trees.
“Myrr”: As shade require-
ments can be better assessed
during warmer months, select the
sites now where the trees are to
go.
A good shade-tree should be
wind-firm, with a dense spread-
ing crown. When making a de-
cision whether to use evergreen
or deciduous trees keep in mind
that deciduous varieties are
preferable where winter sun-
light is desired. In this
category are the elm, poplar,
plane, willow, oak, linden and
ash, all for cool districts.
For warmer climates plant
Queensland white cedar (Melia
azederach ), kurrajong, sugar-
gum, jacaranda, pyramid-tree,
cape chestnut or native pine—
most of these are evergreen. For
shade they are best planted in
clumps, but not set so closely as
to prevent a full spread of the
crown.
A Bracken Beater.
“D.H.”: Here’s a way of
keeping bracken down which
I’ve found most effective. All
you need is a stout stick about
the length and weight of a long
stockwhip-handle, some green-
hide and a light trace-chain —a
heavy dog-chain will do.
Bind a greenhide keeper to
the stick and loop this through
the end of the last link of about
2ft. of chain. Then go through
the bracken and use the weapon
as a whip. The chain tears and
mangles the bracken, and I’ve
found that it doesn’t shoot
nearly as quickly afterwards as
it does after a fernhook. It
certainly keeps my small patches
under control.
Hybrid Maize.
“Zea”: Any maize-grower
who produced a yield of 100
bushels of grain per acre has
previously been satisfied with
the performance, and some still
are.
In a test last season on the
Shoalhaven flats at Numba
(N.S.W.), Fitzroy, the highest-
yielding open-pollinated variety
of maize available, gave a yield
of 112 bushels per acre, but the
yield obtained from the best
Grafton experiment farm hybrid
beside it was 162 bushels. There
should be good profit in such
production with maize at £1 per
bushel.
Minor Soil Elements.
“Minus X.”: It is generally
accepted that life in the most
lowly forms had its origin in
the sea, which, of course, con-
tains all the elements required
now by land plants, animals and
man. It was to be expected,
with the wide differences in the
origin, nature and composition
of soils, that some of them
would not contain all the ele-
ments present in the sea, to
which all lands collectively have
contributed.
So we are now beginning to
find that certain soils lack
certain minor elements for
plants, which affects the animals
restricted to such feed. Man is,
of course, better off in that
regard.
In the new interest in minor
elements, however, the major
elements must not be entirely
forgotten, for there is much
knowledge about them not yet
common. For instance, “Garden-
vale” (B. 9/1/’52) does not indi-
cate what manifestations his
deficiency troubles in citrus
showed, and why he feels so
certain they will be cured by the
three minor sulphates applied.
There are some major element
deficiencies in citrus, and there
are also more than the three
minor elements mentioned. Also,
the result obtained with
tomatoes could have been due
to the sulphur contained in the
sulphates, especially on alkaline
soil.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jock’s Missus”: Sometimes
a cow will lie down and refuse
to get up. She will get up
quickly, however, when the
palms of the hands are placed
over her nostrils, with the
fingers under the jaw held
tightly enough to stop her
breathing.
“E.M.R.”: If the tail-feathers
of either cockerels or pullets
grow at different angles, instead
of in sequence, a deformity of
the back can be suspected. The
danger of breeding from a fowl
with a deformed back is that 90
per cent, of its progeny will
have the fault.
“Sundowner”: A planting of
silver-beet in January will en-
sure plenty of leaf between
March and September. Sow three
seeds to each site, spaced 20in.
apart and later thin them out to
one plant. In addition to a
base dressing of 2oz. to the
square yard of complete
fertiliser, apply liquid manure at
fortnightly intervals after the
plants are 6in. high.
“W. Court”; Muscovy duck-
lings will strip anything green of
all foliage. Our first batch even
ate the leaves off lilies, crocuses
and other garden bulbs and
killed them. Grown ducks aren’t
silly enough to eat every green
herb they see, but if “Country
Girl” (B. 2/1/’52) has had hers
in a patch of greens, such as
cabbages, and hasn’t had every
plant tom to bits, then she has
seen a miracle.


Nweb bekrte cc watch me iiiL
&
6Z
•fi.
<s*o
★ BREITLING CHRONOMAT
For Doctors .. . Executives .. . Engineers ..
Draughtsmen . . . Navigators . . . Airmen , ~
Turfmen . . . Athletes.
This amazing Wrist Watch calculates speed
(of car, runner, horse, etc.) . . . distance (a
journey, a race track, an aerodrome) . . . fuel
consumption, percentages, rates of exchange,
prices, interest, rate of production, etc.
It multiplies and divides, is a stop-watch, and
a perfect timekeeper all the time.
Other Breitling Watches include the Datora
Calendar Watch, Telemeter - Pulsometer,
12-hour Recorder, Waterproof, Breitling
Chronograph.
Ask your jeweller to show you
"tha nalitie,cmkceit.
Bole Australian Representatives: Segal & Co. (est. 1890),
Svdney and Melbourne
B 1
Th e ease
that AGA brings
gen.. .
There is only one AGA, and
only a demonstration proves its
wonderful efficiency, its con-
venience and coolness in cook-
ing. The vitreous cream enamel
is so simple to clean, and the
delectable way the AGA cooks
defies description. Fuel economy
is guaranteed!
V
Com
4
with an
v AGA
COOKER
v-N \w:
Ir
%
Gilt
°9o /
m °f
>»o
Built
J/jjVrf
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING ‘AGA*
or write for full particulars to:—*
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 KING STREET, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr.
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents: A. O. WEBSTER
& SONS LTD., HOBART. W.A. Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Next to the headmaster of a public
school, stationmasters have the most
independent and autocratic position
on earth.” — Mr. Justice Vaisey.
They exercise all the authority
of their station.
4* 4* 4*
“There’s no such thing as footpath
manners in Sydney.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
Pedestrians are becoming
more bumptious every day.
•b 4* 4*
“Riviera was a bright green-red-
white pattern of palm-trees and fish.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
And very Nice, too!
4* 4* 4*
“Lost, Tuesday, half-grown brindle-
and-white female bull.”
—Suburban paper.
Uncommon noun, singular
number, common gender.
4* 4* 4*
“In the film ‘Samson and Delilah’
at a Barranco cinema, Peru, Samson
was straining to topple the temple
pillars when the cinema roof began
to cave in.”
There were too many Philis-
tines'in the audience.
Afterthought.
I’d like to spend next Christmas
On some forgotten isthmus.
No presents.
No presence.
MARGARET READE.
Operation Disposal.
“Well,” said Agapanthus,
“now that we have the new
inner-spring mattress you’ll have
to get rid of the old one.”
“Just like that!” I replied.
“Do you realise, woman, just
how hard it is to dispose of a
thing like that?”
“What’s the council’s garbage-
man for —can’t he take it?” she
asked.
“Listen,” I said. “You know
how that autocrat refuses to take
anything you leave on top of the
can except cigarettes at Christ-
mas.”
“Well, you can put it in the
can and he’ll have to take it
then,” pronounced Agapanthus
pontifically.
A swift calculation convinced
me that, despite the dread task,
it would be easier to get rid of
the mattress than to win an
argument about the futility of
trying.
I succeeded in getting one
corner of the mattress in the
can, with the rest of it spilling
along the ground for a yard or
two ; then I jammed the lid on
it. Early next morning I awoke
to the usual Wednesday-morning
symphony of empty garbage-
cans being hurled around the
landscape. When I went out
later the mattress was still there.
That convinced even Aga-
panthus of the uselessness of the
strong-arm method against the
tyrant of the garbage-cart. She
suggested I give him ss. to take
it away,
“I’ll see him in hell first!” I
said grimly. “That’s only a
weak bowing to blackmail. Be-
sides, he’d laugh at a measly
dollar—he’d probably demand
thirty-bob, plus a quid humilia-
tion-money.”
“Well, you’ll have to do
something about it,” she said.
“I’m not going to have it under
the bed again. Collecting dust
and fluff.”
“I’ll put it in the garage in
case we might need it again
some time,” I said cunningly.
“Indeed you won’t!” ex-
claimed Agapanthus firmly. “It’s
like a jungle in there now. As it
is I have to go in sideways to
get to the car —no, you’ll have
to get it right out of the place
somehow —piecemeal, if neces-
sary.
“You’ve been complaining for
months how thin the pillows
have become,” I said, suddenly
inspired, “I could fill them
from the flock from the mattress.
That would get rid of some of
it. I’ll think of another way to
dispose of the rest.”
“Well, do it out in the yard,
please,” she said. “I don’t want
the house full of that stuff.”
It was still and very hot on
the Saturday afternoon when I
dumped the mattress on the back
lawn and set to work. Slitting it
“There seems to be something Wrong with the recipe .”
and the two pillows open, I pro-
ceeded to transfer the flock.
Within 10 minutes my throat
was as dry as a kiln, nostrils, eyes
and ears were full of the fine
dust from it, and I had reached
46 sneezes non-stop, I was in
the kitchen laving my tortured
tonsils when I felt the first cool
puff come in the back door. By
the time I had dashed down the
yard the southerly-buster had
arrived, and within a minute it
looked as if a snowstorm had
hit the yard, and my hair was
a mass of white flock, like a
stage Uncle Tom. Rolling the
mattress up quickly, I staggered
into the garage with it to plan
my next move.
On the next pre-garbage-
clearance night I filled a bucket
with flock, sneaked out and
filled to capacity each of the
neighbors’ cans as I came to
them. I was just replacing the
lid of the can outside the
sawny-looking cove’s place on
the corner (I barely knew him
to nod to) when I looked up to
see him standing alonside me.
“If you’ve finished helping your-
self,” he growled in a steely
voice, “would you mind if I put
these couple of bottles in?”
I shall touch only briefly on
my idiotic attempt when, after
I had told Agapanthus of this
humiliating end to the garbage-
disposal idea and she had
ordered it to be removed from
the garage, I had sought a
temporary sanctuary for it
around the blind side of the
house, where she rarely ventures,
while I nutted out another way
to get rid of the cursed thing.
The night I dumped it there it
began raining, and in the
ensuing week we registered lOin.
By the time the rain had eased
up the ticking had split right
down and heaps of soggy flock
were cascading everywhere.
I was getting desperate by this
time, and there seemed only one
course left. Ours is a built-up
area, with not a vacant block
for quarter of a mile. But on
the outskirts of the suburb is a
gully. Getting out the car one
night X wrapped the whole
hideous thing in a cornsack, fur-
tively bore it out, and after a
bit of a struggle succeeded in
getting it on to the back seat.
I was just about to move off
when Agapanthus called out to
say I was wanted on the phone.
Ten minutes later I emerged
again, got in and had just started
off when a big black sedan shot
past me, swerved into the gutter
across my bows and stopped, and
about four cops tumbled out.
As I pulled up one of them put
his head in the car, then said
something to the others about
the “tip-off looking like being
the straight griffin,” then turned
to me and said “What have you
got in the back?”
By this time I was thoroughly
fed-up. “A Sherlock Holmes
like you ought to be able to
deduce from the shape of it
what must be obvious to the
veriest dullard,” I snapped. “It’s
a grand-piano. I’m taking it to
have it recaulked and retreaded
and the piston-slap fixed.”
He looked in again. “You
wouldn’t be trying to dump
something, by any chance,
would you—a body, say?”
“It’s a clean catch,” I replied,
“It’s the wife’s old man —he
used to beat me at crib every
night.”
“Hey, what’s this! ” said
another cop who had got in the
back. “This isn’t a body. If
you’re trying to have us on you
won’t be too happy about it.
We’d better take him to the
station for a few questions, any-
way. This might be some
pinched stuff.”
At the station the sergeant,
after examining the booty, said
they couldn’t hold me. While
he and some of the others were
arguing over the contents of the
sack, which they had dumped in
a corner, I slipped out.
Since I got rid of that old
mattress I’ll never hear a word
of criticism against our fine
Police Force.
Bo.
A Shocking End.
“An electric burglar-alarm has
been erected in Westminster Abbey
round the Coronation Stone, stolen
last Christmas by Scottish nationalists.
Anyone who tries to remove the stone
now will get a shock.”
Last time the stone was unde-
fended.
Secure throughout the centuries.
For none, ’twas thought, would
wish to seize
This symbol of contentions
ended
When north and south at last
were blended
By their own wish and kings’
decrees ;
And yet some folk are hard to
please.
From dour old patriots des-
cended.
But now the ancient stone of
Scone
Has been returned where it
belongs.
And any thief who would make
bold,
In company or on his own.
To right long-since forgotten
wrongs
Will, like as not, be left stone
cold.
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Wool
Other than to provide London credits
to meet import and loan commitments,
just what is the national economic status
of Australian woolgrowing?
Consider the example of Queensland,
where wool, as a factor in building up
stable centres of population, is fast losing
any value it ever had. The rot starts at
the top, with the growing tendency to
assess living areas on their capacity to
support the boss and his family resident
in the south. It is extended by the fact
that shearing is a contract job which has
perpetuated a race of nomads. Cane-
cutting, which 40 or so years ago im-
ported workers from as far south as Mel-
bourne, is now carried on in the main by
resident labor.
Wool is not only not building up a
stable population ; it is losing what it
already has. Westward from Stanthorpe
and Emerald and west and north of
Charters Towers is an area of $OO,BBO
square miles—7s per cent, of Queensland.
It carries practically the whole of
Queensland’s wool sheep and many of
its beef cattle, but in 1947 it held
only six per cent, of the State’s total
population, against eight per cent.
14 years earlier. That is to say,
between the census years this immensely
rich wool area lost the whole of its
natural increase, as well as 4238 males
and 2809 females which it carried in 1933
—a decrease of nine per cent, in the area.
In the same 14 years the remaining 25
per cent, of the State increased its popula-
tion by 19 per cent.
Wool does not even house its
permanent population decently. Finding
No. 12 of the royal commission on the
Queensland pastoral industry, appointed
on August 31 last, states: ‘‘There is in
many towns a high percentage of sub-
standard dwellings.” The irony of it is
that under the provision of the Workers’
Accommodation Act seasonal, shearers
are generally better h oused than
permanent employees, to obviate which
the royal commission’s recommendation
No. 24 is that that Act be amended to
cover permanent station workers.
Nor does wool feed its people
adequately. The Advisory Council on
Nutrition (1937) found Tat the majority
of sufferers from diseases caused by bad
feeding were in areas where some of the
world’s finest Merino wool is produced.
Of the hundreds of children examined in
wool areas, 16 per cent, were suffering
from rickets and like nutritional diseases.
Wool does not pay its full railage bills.
In the 10 years to 1951 the wool lines in
the foregoing areas cost the taxpayers of
Queensland £2,368,468 to keep the trains
running.
The problems of woolgrowing of 50
years ago are the problems of today. The
wool-man has solved none of them, but
has eaten out the natural grasses and
cannot be brought to talk of pasture-
regeneration. Sheep losses are as fantastic
as they were 50 years ago and fires
through uneaten grass are still
tremendous.
Any industrial concern which sat among
the bits and pieces of a 1900 technique
would have to put up the shutters, and,
but for delirious wool prices abroad, that
would be the lot of the woolgrower.
Crossbred (Q.).
“To Win Recruits”
Heroics (B. 12/12/’5l) are as old-
fashioned as Garibaldi. Young men
today realise that heroes come and go like
comets are soon forgotten.
Give the boys an ideal, certainly.
Something worth fighting for like the
protection of Australia for Australians
and the democratic way of life. But the
comforts of home are not going to be
forsaken for Garibaldi’s advertisement
“I offer neither pay, nor quarters, nor
provisions; I offer hunger, thirst, forced
marches, battles and death.
No, the boys want some of the home
comforts, and the more they get in the
services the more recruits there shall be.
Neither are men going to forsake
lucrative civilian employment for poorly-
"I got him to play with a little more inspiration."
paid “careers” in the Army. As the
comforts of home-life and the salaries of
civilian workers increase, so must the
comforts and pay in the Army increase,
particularly in peace-time.
If actual war were declared, Australian
men would then sacrifice personal
pleasure and profit for the honorable job
of winning peace ; just as they have done
in the past.
But, if Australians do not respond to
the Government’s present offers, they
certainly will not respond to Garibaldi’s
inducement. —L. H. (Vic.).
Socialism
There are two other elements con-
tributing to our slow march to Socialism
(B. 2/1 / ”52). One is the “managerial
class,” dubbed by English publicist
Douglas Jerrold as “the new aristocracy
of the pen and desk.” The other is the
professional politician, pure and simple.
The “managerial class” takes in the
professional organisers—“brain-pickers”
Jerrold calls them—for they have no
special knowledge of the jobs they under-
take; their flair is supervision of the
work of others. They have become
influential in the 20th century not only
in public life but in big business, and
have even penetrated into education
headmasters have been appointed to some
great schools within recent years not
because of their scholastic qualifications
or skill as teachers but because they are
good organisers.
Jerrold points out in England, Past,
Present and Future that;
“Nine out of ten of the ‘economists’
who advocate sweeping changes . m
industry are not economists but lawyers
or civil servants who have dabbled in
economics as a hobby. When we come
to ideas of Governmental control we can
trace them to the technical advisers or
the Government departments concerned.
They are men of the new class. Not
farmers, but teachers of agriculture. Not
mine-managers, but professors of min-
ing. Not general practitioners, or
research-workers, but civil servants with
mainly technical professional qualifica-
tions. For the first time in our history
power has passed from the men who
produce the goods to the men who sell
them. From the men who make the
news to the men who write it. From the
men who do the work to the men who
organise the men who do the work.”
That type is to be found in all political
parties, though it is most conspicuous in
those of Socialistic outlook. Those who
belong to it, however, tend to influence
any party they permeate towards
Socialism. An extension of Govern-
mental enterprise can mean good jobs for
themselves.
They are aided and abetted by the
purely professional politician, a type also
to be found in all political parties today.
Regarding politics as a career, and with
no strong stake in any form of private
enterprise, the professional politician has
no cause to resent increase of Govern-
ment economic activity. For him, too,
it may mean a well-paid job, free from
the uncertainties of a Parliamentary
career. , , T .. , ,
There are, however, in the Liberal ana
Country parties in this country, and in
similar parties in others, some members
who do not belong to either of the above
groups and are genuine in their abhor-
rence of Socialism. Strong public sup-
port will enable them to exert wider
influence than they have been able to
achieve of late years. The professional
politician will cease to coquet with Social-
ism when he realises that it is politically
disastrous to do so. Economist
(N.S.W.).
Co-operatives
“Magnoon’s” defence of co-operatives
(B. 16/1/’52) ignores many facts.
Admitted there are a number of co-
operatives which do not fulfil the condi-
tions necessary for tax-exemption. But
there are many more, some of them
leviathan concerns, that do not pay taxes,
to the detriment of their competitors and
the ordinary taxpayer.
Few co-operatives make their balance-
sheets public, so it is hard to know which
pay taxes and which don’t. But here’s
part of the report of a small farmers’ co-
operative at Curlewis, a small north-west
N.S.W. wheat town:
“Membership of the society has in-
creased to 970. Members’ capital has in-
creased from £28,356 to £39,164 during
the year, and the board recommends a
four per cent, dividend on capital.
“Expenses totalled £16,318, and the
surplus was £7750. Merchandise sales for
the year totalled £135,000.
“The assets of the society are shown
at £74,158, made up of land, buildings
and plant £22,000 ; cash £10,376 ; debts
and commissions accrued £16,589 ; stock
on hand at Curlewis and Gunnedah
stores £23,316 ; investments £1138.”
No mention of taxation, and it can be
concluded that the district’s retailers have
lost business to the tune of £135,000 to
a selling organisation that does not have
to fork out large sums for the Treasury,
as they do.
That’s only one of the small ones.
Last yeaf the big Sigma chemists’ co-
operative in Victoria made a profit of
£lOO,OOO. It provided only £l2OO for
taxation, where a private trader making a
similar profit would have had to cough up
nearly £60,000
It isn’t only in rebates that members of
co-operative societies benefit. In pro-
ducer co-operatives profits can be hidden
by the co-operative paying more than
market-value for members’ produce.
Similarly, in consumer co-operatives
goods can be sold to members at a loss.
There is nothing at all wrong with the
principles of co-operation. In fact, under
normal circumstances in a democracy,
they provide a nice counterbalance to
keep private business on the rails.
But it was never intended by early
legislators that co-operatives should enjoy
the enormous advantage of tax immunity
that they have today. When the law was
framed company taxes were low; now
they eat up more than half the average
private trader’s profits.
No wonder cp-operatives are forging
ahead while they are free of a burden
which must be borne by everyone else.
No wonder, too, that they have formed
themselves into a strong pressure-group
to ensure that they retain their advantage.
Unless the position is altered, it is
logical to suppose that in some areas the
co-operatives will eventually drive private
business from the scene, and become
monopolies as they are in Russia and
Palestine.
Where they do become monopolies
they are not noted for service, as anyone
who has seen the small village co-
operatives in Palestine will testify. ■
Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 158
Across.
I — Molested brewing material about
a Neddy. (10)
s—Nelson in a miniature maelstrom.
(4)
9 —Blow the Prime Minister who lost
America before the paschal festi-
val. (11)
ll Vessel you associate with the
British fleet. (3)
12— Criticise any mother in a summer
hat. (6)
13— He encompasses everything for a
famous orchestra. (5)
15 —The most thickly lubricated King
is the least difficult. (9)
17— A lot of poetry in systems of
thought or law. (5)
18 — Holy fish sharpener. (5)
19 — They come back about some
watercolors. (9)
22 —Behave in response to a cause
about Canberra. (5)
24 —Three-ton trumpeter of Poseidon?
(6)
26 N.Z. bird. (3)
27 — Munchausen's occupation to drop
nothing before the West is like
arable land having a season’s
rest. (5, 6)
> 28 —Bucks appeal to her, but she’s no
gold-digger. (4)
29 —It is decorum to appear on a
telephone wire and a steamer. (10)
Dowh.
1— Staffing a river in N.S.W. (7)
2 Prank for a flier. (4)
3 Lend an ear once more to Sarahl
(9)
4 Something taken out for a one-
time religious pamphlet. (7)
6 Yedyed. (6-4)
7 Americans seek no upset. (7)
8 — Waggish structure. (4)
10 —Lower feature at a corner of a
baseball diamond. (5)
14 —a turn of the motor and the
high-spiritedness of significant
disclosure. (10)
16 — Initiated action against the Sioux
City girl. (3)
17 — Motor runs over the late Mr. Law
and I finish off a secret society.
(9)
18 — How many a hen can forage tor
a back-marker. (7)
19 — Resembling the Pied Piper’s fol-
lowers. (7)
20 — Object in the night. (5)
21— Untidy inscriptions swim m a
steamship. (7) .....
23—Ring the bell tax to the fifties. (4)
25—Blackthorn fruit in Leo’s altera-
tions. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 157.


TWs entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly hy MOFFA T-VIRTUE LIMITED
IR.V. AGRICULTURAL REIMS
January
A monthly feature for all those Interested In Agriculture
i mm
mmm
: :
Moffat-Virtue Ltd.’s modern factory at Epsom Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
ECONOMY DRIVE HELPS FARMERS
BEA# INFLATION
m
BBS
m
m
Batteries of high-speed drills work
||| round the clock, turning out finely
111 finished parts at a minimum cost.
mm
m
<• •
«:
After hours on the testing benches
these M.V. Engines are given a
final touch-up before they leave, to
take their places on farms
throughout the Commonwealth.
mmm
m
iph
m
v.-
mmmmm
■■■■ ■;:
m
mmm
;
m.
■
mm
it
r
mm
mmm
[ By check
I Lighting
before it-
and re-check every M.V.
Plant is proved perfect
leaves the factory.
m
n
“Know-how and concentration
help the man in this picture grind
crankshafts to fit the M.V. 3 h.p.
Engine with smooth perfection.
Equipment Costs Cut
at Source of Manufacture
Streamlined production methods, that cut manufacturing costs, enable Moffat-
Virtue Ltd. to defeat rising prices, and sell first-class machinery to the farmer
at a price that is not loaded with uneconomical overhead costs.
At their modern Rosebery, N.S.W., factory
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. have installed the most up-
to-date precision equipment available. Using
mass production techinques they produce a
huge flow of farm machinery every year.
Highly skilled tradesmen machine every part
to the finest limits, making sure that all equip-
ment reaches the most exacting standards of
quality.
Research engineers, with a wealth of practical,
down-to-earth experience, are continuously
engaged in keeping Moffat-Virtue products
years ahead in design.
Separate departments specialise in Milking
Machines, Lighting Plants, Engines, Shearing
Machinery, and Power Spray and Irrigation
Equipment.
Each departmental head is highly skilled in his
own particular field, and is always available
to give farmers expert advice on the problems
they meet.
In every State of the Commonwealth Moffat-
Virtue’s Distributors bring you agricultural
equipment that’s been tailored to measure for
Australian conditions, made from the finest
materials, and manufactured by the most
efficient methods.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd,,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited.
Hobart and Launceston.
