

SB
A PRODUCT OF THE
* A '.' .'S . •- - • . A *‘v'
SB
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON EXtA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3754
Wednesday, January 23, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WESTMINSTER CATHEDRAL
THRUSTS SKYWARD
IN LONELY BEAUTY
XTEAR the west end of Victoria Street
in London is Westminster Cathedral,
the most important Roman Catholic
church in England. This vast and impos-
ing edifice stands upon ground which was
originally reclaimed from marshes by
monks of the Abbey of St. Peter. It was
also the site of a debtors’ prison built in
1618.
This great Cathedral was designed by
John Francis Bentley, the son of a Don-
caster wine merchant, in the Early-
Christian Byzantine style, and was
erected during the years 1895 to 1903.
The architect studied Byzantine archi-
tecture in Constantinople and Italy.
Twelve million hand-made bricks were
used in the construction of the Cathedral,
which covers an area of 50,000 square
feet. The unusual appearance of the
exterior is due to the use of alternate
narrow bands of red brick and grey
stone.
The slender campanile tower, 284 feet
high, is a prominent London landmark,
and from its summit, reached by a lift,
there is an extensive view of the metro-
polis. In 1925 the tower was the scene
of a tragedy when a woman threw herself
and her three children from the balcony
into the street below.
The decoration of the vast interior of
the Cathedral is still being carried out,
and when completed the lower walls and
piers will be covered with coloured
marble, while the upper walls and dome
will be lined with rich mosaics illustrat-
ing the great mysteries of the Christian
religion. The eight columns of dark-
green marble supporting the gallery were
quarried in Greece, and on their way
from Thessaly they were seized by the
Turks as war loot. Over forty varieties
of marble have already been used in the
interior decoration, and at the west end
are two great columns of red Norwegian
granite. The high altar is a solid block
of Cornish granite weighing twelve tons,
and the elaborate canopy above it stands
on eight columns of yellow marble; the
vaulting is inlaid with lapis lazuli, gold
and mother-of-pearl. The great nave,
seating two thousand people, is the
widest in England, and around it are
richly-decorated chapels.


[Learn t
Treelcmce Journal?
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
m “ mmmm ’ mm ‘ m CVT HERE AND MAIL wmmmm —■«
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.152) Age"!!”
Old Colonial Architecture in New South Wales,
by Hardy Wilson. Containing 50 Colour,
plates. Limited Edition, signed by artist iu
I£>24. Excellent condition. Price 30 gns.
Norman Lindsay's Watercolours. 18 plates.
Limited and signed edition. 1939. Mint con-
dition. £lO gns.
Race Horses in Australia, by Martin Stain-
torth. 24 Colour plates, and numerous black-
and-white drawings. Perfect copy. 70 gns.
No. 331, Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney. __
The Red Page
HUGO WOLF
I Hugo Wolf is a composer whose exce
lence limits his audience. He went to t
finest poets for his songs, and he set th
in such a way that the music illustra
and comments upon the words: Schub
could do this, but with less finesse and
sight into the mind and character o
people in his lyrics, yet at the same ti
leave a melody that would please t
listener who could not understand
words. With Wolf words, music anc
meaning are so dependent upon one
other that the listener who does
understand German has little hope o
appreciating Wolf’s genius to the full
But if Wolf’s songs have a relative
small international audience, and if
frantic efforts to find an opera that wou
perpetuate his name in action ended
the failure of a succes d’estime, he le
a life which, in the intense collating anc
original research of Frank Walke
Hugo Wolf: A Biography (Dent), shouk
assure him prominence for a long tim
among the records of the feverish com
oany whom genius magnifies abo
ordinary men: tragic, comic, dreadfu
pitiful, utterly mad and supremely sar
Hugo was the fourth of eight childre
af a lea t h e r-factory owner o
Yindischgraz, Austria, which h
fiianged since his birthday in 1860
fiovenjgradec, Yugoslavia. His father
incestry was German, his mother
Jlovene with perhaps a dash of Italia
its father hated the leather trade, anc
toped through Hugo to gratify his lov
'f music; for his part, Hugo’s affectio
or music was ferocious, to the exclusio
f all other studies, and his schooling
record of being asked to leave b
eadmaster after headmaster, not s
luch because he was dull, as because 1
/as untameable ; and ultimately he wa
xpelled from the Conservatoire o
hernia, where he was a fellow-studen
nth Mahler, for telling the director tha
e was “forgetting more than he wa
naming.”
He lived in Vienna, at first wit
.natives, then in a bewildering series o
roves from lodging to lodging; if h
icked money, there were rich dilettante
i help him; and he had a large circle c
fiends who let him teach their children
nd bang their pianos, and took him o
luntry holidays, with most of whom h
uarrelled bitterly, thereafter acting as
s had never known them—a notable in
ance being that of the family of Dr
reuer, one of Freud’s earliest collabor
ors: Mrs. Breuer took exception to
>me remark Wolf made about a woman
hereupon Wolf left their home and
tough he had lived there almost as one
the family, never spoke to them again
In 1879, at the age of nineteen, he grew
lamored of the daughter of a French
ofessor who was visiting relatives in
icnna, and was visited with his first
>od of song, setting to poems of Heine
metimes at the rate of two a day; the
tair came to a climax in a mysterious
signation in the country; and the
-autiful and exciting Vally Franck
oke things off in 1881. Thereafter
olf washed about, annoying friends and
mg rejected of publishers, and writinc
i Liszt’s advice a tone-poem, “Penthe-
ea, until, in 1884, he was procured a
usic-critic s job on the magazine
Viener Salonblatt ”
For some years Vienna had been
/ided between the followers of Brahms,
1 by the most influential of Vienna
itics, Eduard Hanslick, and the fol-
ders of Wagner. Vienna being
ahmss home-town, Wagner was cold-
mldered by authority, and thus became
! B od °f the younger concertgoers,
/ays anxious for a little revolution;
~ arr *° n £ these younger men was
)Jf. He had called upon Wagner in
a, and though Wagner had been
used, and, looking over the young
n s works, had told him that -he,
gner, knew nothing of music. Wolf’s
admiration was by no means lessened ;
whereas when he had called upon Brahms
in 1879, Brahms had taken serious
trouble to point out his deficiencies, and
advised him to study counterpoint, and
Brahms became even more his bitter
enemy; more so because, as Wolf ex-
plained to his public at various times
during his three-years term as critic,
Brahms was a “Jewish czardas player”
and “the Eunuch of Music”:
I race knew a celebrated musical
asstheticist who professed a dislike of cheese
and yet enjoyed Brahms’s music.
It is not surprising that such criticism
increased the magazine’s circulation;
moreover, Mr. Walker shows him say-
ing sensible things about Chopin, Berlioz
and others over whom there was still
argument in Vienna ; and always sound
on the great masters —indeed, even able
to speak well of Brahms’s Alto Rhapsody,
and in almost poetic prose about one of
his string quartets. But the general trend
of his criticism was by no means com-
plimentary to Brahms; and when, late in
1886, Wolf prevailed upon Richter and
the Philharmonic to include his tone-
poem “Penthesilea” in a list of tryouts,
from his place in the back of the hall
he heard what seemed to him a dreadful
travesty of his piece:
My “Penthesilea '? No, the “Penthesilea”
of a madman, an idiot, a jester, and any-
thing else you please, but my “Penthesilea”
it was not.
And then he heard Richter say to the
orchestra; •
Gentlemen! I should not have let this
piece be played to the end, but I wanted
to see for myself the man who dares to
write in such a way about Meister Brahms.
Over this happening there has been
much controversy. One side considers
that the rehearsal was arranged as a
deliberate insult to an unpopular critic.
Richter, later in life, found it necessary
to explain—a lot of great men had to
hedge on their earlier opinions of Wolf
—that he had not known that Wolf was
listening; Wolf had had no right to be
there, and had he not been there he
would not have heard the disrespectful
laughter of a few of the orchestra ; more-
over, it was only a test-performance, at
sight. At the same time, although critics
say much in favor of his tone-poem, they
seem to agree that Wolf’s orchestration,
throughout his life, might have been
much better if he had heard more of his
work performed—it was only with the
piano that he knew exactly what he was
doing.
Such was the prologue to what must be
one of the most glorious four years in
the history of song-writing: in 1888,
Wolf came good:
In this year I have composed up to today
no Jess than ninety-two songs and ballads,
and of all the ninety-two songs not one is
a failure.
The flood of inspiration swept on until
1891. Beginning with songs to words
by the Swabian poet Mdrike, he went on
to words by Eichendorff, then to a long
list of Goethe songs, then to transla-
tions of Spanish songs, then to transla-
tions of Italian songs. He found an
eager sympathiser in Franz Schalk, who
soon split the Wagner society by devoting
most of its concerts to Wolf’s songs, and
an exponent in Ferdinand Jager, the
singer, who set out deliberately to
popularise Wolf’s songs. Four song-
books were published; Wolf’s fame
spread up into Germany ; he began to
travel; Wolf Societies were formed .
During his travels Wolf contracted
some kind of alliance with a German
singer, Frieda Zerny, which he con-
cluded less as though she had been his
love than his friend. He accompanied
recitals of his own songs:
An engagement to sing Wolf’s songs with
Wolf himself at the piano was not lightly
to be undertaken. He paid no regard at all
to the presence of an audience, and if his
artistic feelings, or his abnormally sensitive
ear, were outraged by a slip of memory,
an error of taste or lapse of intonation or
rhythm, he would rebuke the singer audibly,
even during a public performance. If he
thought his associate showed a tendency
to sentimentalise one of his songs he would
begin the accompaniment at twice the
normal tempo. Untimely applause he would
cut short with cascades of fortissimo chord
sequences, and he had other methods of
showing his displeasure, such as stamping
his feet on the platform or slamming down
the lid of the piano ...
He ran into a bad patch after 1891 ;
then, in 1895, after long and unsuccess-
ful search for a suitable opera libretto
—he had decided that an opera or light-
opera was the only means open to him
for making a fortune—he recurred to a
libretto done from the book, The Three
Cornered Hat, by a friend’s sister-in-law
in 1890. Then, he had not liked it at
all:
Wolf came rushing into Lang’s flat, threw
the manuscript libretto on the table, and sat
without speaking for a time on the divan.
Then he looked earnestly at Lang and
asked: “Did you write that?” “No”
“Or your wife?” “No, neither of us.”
“Thank God! That would have been
dreadful.” Then he told them, savagely
and pitilessly, everything that was wrong
with Rosa Mayreder’s script. The banality
of the language especially infuriated him.
But in 1895 he sent for it again, and
to everyone’s surprise professed himself
delighted with it, and began to set it to
music: he finished it in fourteen weeks.
It pleased him: —
The public will howl. My personal
enemies can say what they please. People
will no longer talk of anything but this
opera. All of them, Mascagni, Humper-
dinck, e tutti quanti, will be unable to
compete and will fade away.
The opera, “Der Corregidor,” was put
on at Mannheim in 1896 ; although Wolf
had antagonised the cast with his criticism,
the first night was voted a success. But
then enthusiasm tailed off. His first
judgment was correct, Mr. Walker says
—it was a bad libretto ; the opera tended
too much to be another Song-Book; and
all revivals of the work have been marked
by the same early enthusiasm, and the
same tailing-off.
A year later, in 1897, the Hugo Wolf
Society was formed in Vienna; in
time, a few months after its foundation,
to underwrite the expense of keeping
Wolf in a lunatic asylum. He had con-
tracted syphilis when he was seventeen
—for whatever reason, he went mad, the
first sign being his announcement that he
was the new director of the Vienna
Opera.
These few notes will give little idea of
the profound and patient scholarship of
Mr. Walker’s biography. It is rein-
forced with long chapters of critical dis-
cussion of Wolf’s songs; and there is an
appendix of the main books and articles
on Wolf, a detailed catalogue of his com-
positions with exact dates of writing, and
an index. This should remain the
standard English work on Wolf for many
a long day.
Harsh Music .
As the first book of a young South
Australian writer who has written a
vigorous radio verse-play about Burke
and Wills and who recently won both
the feature and drama prizes in v the
A.B.C.’s Jubilee competitions, Colin
Thiele’s The Golden Lightning (Jindy-
worobak) is of more than usual interest;
it is time we had a chance to see what
Mr. Thiele—who has also occasionally
contributed to The Bulletin— is really
made of.
Along with an attractive warmth or
Australian feeling a strange harshnes
pervades his book. There is an
awkward and uncertain vocabulary,
as when, instead of saying “praise,”
Mr. Thiele says “we laud the
sight,” and when he uses such concoc-
tions as “embosom the divots of flame.”
There are rugged and intractable metres,
lines clogged with adjectives, as in:
We, flooding mercy, who think to set him
free —
easing the toothed pressure from his splin-
tered bone,
to see his stubbed shoulders dragging sinew-
bonded feet—
stumps hammered by a hill of stone . . .
There are compound words yoked to-
gether with hyphens like a pair of
bullocks; and above all there is a
remorseless use of gutturals which would
make Tennyson leap up a gum-tree
and which most poets, if not requiring
quite the Tennysonian mellifluousness,
would regard as excessive;
the toy pegs
plotting the graph of his greed,
marking hjs acres of dust, his futile hope
of imprisoning earth and impounding the
nomad grains
fled from the grope , . .
tc is astonishing, indeed, to count the
gs” in such a poem as “Red Snow’
(and other poems are just as full of
them), and to add to the “g’s” the equally
harsh z’s” and the pugnacious, uncom-
promising vowel-sounds ; and also to take
into consideration the images of blood
and torn flesh which combine with the
verbal effects to give the verse its final
effect of rawness: in this poem the opera-
tive words are “angry,” “blasted,”
curse,” “dust,” “gaped,” “blistering,”
pegs, “graph,” “greed,” “grope ”
gritty ” “flogging,” “weals,” “bandage,”
bloodied,” “blood,” “sting,” “gritting
the glacier-tongues,” “scourged”... until
in (he concluding couplet;
the blood-channels grid the ice, and I see
the heart of my land
haemorrhage to death.
In defence of these harsh noises and
sacrificial images it can be argued that
they are appropriate to an angry poem
about soil-erosion; and even when—as
m “Spencer Gulf Jetty,” with its
nuzzling and its “ooze,” its “clucking”
and its “snakes,” its “dregs” and “gait”
and “gangrened”—there isn’t so much
sand to justify the gritty music, the choice
of words still has some appropriateness
to the general rawness or harshness of
the Australian scenes Mr, Thiele likes to
write about; and where there is over
emphasis it may be put down to the vigor
of youth and counted, in part, as a
virtue. ’ d
Out of the grinding of the gutturals
there does come at times, as when Mr
Thiele is writing about mining ] n
“Middleback Range,” a stroke of genuine
force: —
till Man, in passing, courts their sapphire
glow
with sweating flesh and, clothed in ferric
grime,
grunts as he gouges out his sunset gash—
his nick in time.
And there are occasions—though not
very many—when Mr. Thiele softens his
music and modulates his soot and rust in
a white “Sea-Mist”;
And the wind is a thick wind
with a clammy grip.
It strides into my heart
without knocking.
Out of the white soot a ship moans
with a rusty voice
like a lost beast’s bellow
veined with fear . . .
But, when the defence has been made
and the exceptions noted, the verse
remains too harsh. It has color without
fineness, vigor without depth. It is like-
able but amateurish. What will probably
be Mr. Thiele’s most sustaining
attribute—-his breadth; his ability to
depict character and to control a complex
action —is not quite illustrated in this
book, for he prints only extracts from
“Burke and Wills,” and the real merit
of the piece was not in the occasional
effective images of dust and death but in
the play as a whole: though it was some-
what derivative it moved, and it was
moving; and the harsh verse suited the
theme.
Chooks and Oranges .
J. Somerville Best's The Return of
Christy Briscoe (Dymock’s), an “A.B.C.
Weekly” prizewinner, is the second novel
by a writer who has also published short-
stories in The Bulletin and “The
Woman’s Mirror.” The first novel, very
pleasant in a quiet way, was Crockett’s
Lane, set in the orange-growing area
around Sydney.
Christy Briscoe has much the same set-
ting, though more of the action takes
place in a country town than in the
countryside itself. It is built raore-or-
less on the boy-meets-girl pattern. The
reader follows the fortunes of a girl
named Sally Monday, supposed to be an
orphan from a State home working for a
well-to-do and eccentric old lady repre-
senting one of the pioneer families of the
district. Sally meets and discards or is
discarded by various young men, then
finds the right man at the end and at the
same time discovers that she is heiress to
the old lady , being the daughter by an-
other wife of her ex-husband.
Another theme running through the
novel concerns a spinsterish lady named
Edith, much addicted to cats, who turns
out to have been secretly married to the
scapegrace Christy Briscoe. Christy has
been jailed for manslaughter, disappear-
ing after serving his sentence ; and Edith
fears his return. A blackmailing young
man links the stories together by threaten-
ing to produce Christy Briscoe and by
suggesting that Christy may be Sally’s
long-lost father.
Though it makes a pleasant little light
romance for readers of women’s maga-
zines, what you might call the orange-
blossom in Mrs. Best’s novel is not of
any great consequence: Sally’s heart-
aches, and the rather improbable
machinations of the blackmailer.
But there remain, as in Crockett’s Lane,
the oranges; the quiet, humorous, sym-
pathetic fidelity of this picture of an Aus-
tralian country town, the chooks and
oranges in the paddocks around it, the
leisurely bus that links it with the rail-
way to the city; and the dances, the
feuds, the gossip, the buried scandals, the
fundamental solidity and warmth. The
varying types of people are all very well
drawn and the rich old lady—Mrs. Uni-
combe, who wears overalls, rubber knee-
boots and an ancient homburg hat and
who, being expert with a pea-rifle through
long practice 6n foxes and cats in defence
of her poultry, eventually shoots the
blackmailer—is really an excellent piece
of characterisation.


Fence your property
with only one wire!
This modern way of fencing—The Everyday Electric
Fencer way —brings widespread benefit through
its great savings in the cost of fencing.
The Everyday Electric Fencer is SAFE and harmless
because it operates on the SAFE low voltage of
a 6-volt storage battery, electrifying up to
25 MILES OF FENCE.
© Easily erected
© Costs so little
• Charges 25 miles of fence
Everyday Electric Fences are easily erected, easily moved and make fencing
for feeding off areas no job at all. Simplifying crop and pasture rotation
. . . fencing off lucerne, maize or other feed . . . segregating sick and
infected crop . . , providing temporary pastures, likewise bull or call
pens, pig runs, etc., anywhere on the farm.
Wiring. Barbed wire is recommended, but plain wire will do. New
wire is not necessary provided the old wire you use is not badly rotter!
or rusted. This is important because the whole success of electric fencing
depends on the electrical continuity of the wire.
Made in Australia for Australian soil and climate conditions. All
fences are thoroughly tested and adjusted for maximum performance and
include a built-in neon test light.
One man can fence 10 acres in half a day with the Everyday . . <
light stakes cut from the bush replace heavy posts ... no post holes to
dig . . . no holes to bore in posts . . . run ONE wire instead of
five . . . use harness clips or spring hooks instead
of gates. Priced at only
£B/10/-
</
o
»
Ch
/■
®s3m&
\ ..
Save energy . , . Wermore l Knapsack Sprayer
An^p^K 11 l 3r r SS all °y tank > 2ft - 7 i in - delivery hose. 22in. Spray Lance.
6 Dend tor potatoes, ground crops. Weight 141bs. £22/5/-.
'-'N
t.
I. Drive in stakes 30 feet apart.
rT
3
m
I / \
2, Nail on the insulator.
ow
i
> *3
3. Run a single wire from stake
to stake.
m
U . f %
O'
4. Connect fencer to wire and six-
volt battery to fencer.
ƒ
Solve your brick and building problems
44 Truline 99 Brickmaking Machine
To make 1,000 “New Method’’ Bricks 9in. x 4|in. x Sin.,
all you require is 10 bags of cement and 2f yards
sand or similar material. Three men operating the
machine will produce approx. 250 bricks per hour.
Price, £B4/3/6. Plus tax where applicable.
Simac Semi Rotary Pumps Iron (brass valves)
Above pumps available in all brass if required.
f
CMk.
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT—FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE; M 2401. POST TO BOX 2712C, G.P.O., SYDNEY — FREIGHT EXTRA


The Department of
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
New South Wales
offers through the
CORRESPONDENCE TEACHING DIVISION
sound and modern training by correspondence instruction in a wide
range of subjects.
Promotion and success depend upon your ability to keep in touch
with up-to-date methods and modern trends. Home-study courses
will open up new interests and enthusiasms as well as lead to
EFFICIENCY PROMOTION SUCCESS
Any person, other than those of school age, who, by reason of
remote place of residence, hours of employment or physical
disability, cannot attend Technical College classes, may apply for
enrolment in any one or more of the following courses.
ART.—Object (Still Life) Drawing,
Figure Drawing, Freehand Drawing,
Dressmakers’ Art, Display Card
Writing, Ticket Writing.
COMMERCE—Bookkeeping, Commer-
cial English, Commercial Principles,
Accountancy, Auditing, Commercial
Law, Income Tax Law and Practice,
Banking, Finance and Foreign Ex-
change, Cost Accountancy, Company
Secretarial Practice, Economics,
Bankers’ Institute, Commercial Cor-
respondence, Shorthand, Typewrit-
ing.
LOCAL GOVERN3IENT.—L o C a 1
Government Town and Shire Clerks’
Certificate, Local Government
Auditors’ Certificate
ELECTRICAL TRADES for appren-
tices and journeymen.
ENGINEERING TRADES—Fitting
and Machining, Automotive Mech-
anics, Refrigeration (for apprentices
and Journeymen), Steam Engine
Operation, Steam Boiler Attendants,
Gas Engineering, Diesel Engine
Operation, Motor Maintenance (for
owners and drivers of motor vehicles).
SURVEYlNG.—Certificate Course.
GENERAL EDUCATION.—EngIish
and Mathematics (approximately
from Ist year Secondary to Leaving
Certificate standard), French, Mech-
anics, Modern History, Geography,
Economics (approximately from In-
termediate Certificate to Leaving Cer-
tificate and/or Matriculation to Uni-
versity of Sydney standard).
MARINE ENGINEERING.—Ist and
2nd Class Marine Engineer’s Certifi-
cate, Part A.
BUILDING TKA D E S.—Building
Construction, Carpentry and Joinery
(Theory, Calculations, Drawing and
Trade Practice).
PRINTING TRADES.—Composing,
Printers’ English and Arithmetic,
Linotype Operation, Bookbinding,
Letterpress Printing (for apprentices
and journeymen).
PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS.—QuaIi-
fying examinations (Degree and Dip-
loma Courses), N.S.W. University of
Technology, Certificate Entrance, De-
partment of Technical Education,
Intermediate (see Secondary) and
Leaving Certificates, matriculation
to University of Sydney, Nurses’
Entrance, Police Entrance.
public HEALTH.—HeaIth Inspec
tion, Meat Inspection.
RURAL.—Agriculture, Care of
Animals, Pig Raising, Poultry Farm-
ing, Sheep and Woolclassing, Dairy
Technology, Dairy Farming, Bee
Keeping, Farm Mechanics (including
Farm Machinery, Farm Science and
Farm Arithmetic), Farm Manage-
ment and Farm Economics, Farm
and Station Bookkeeping.
SANITATION.—H ou s e Drainage,
Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumbing,
Gas Pitting.
SECONDARY,—EngIish, French,
Latin, Mathematics I and 11, Arith-
metic, Algebra, Geometry, History,
Geography, Bookkeeping, Art, Social
Studies, Handicrafts, Technical
Drawing, Needlework, Home Eco-
nomics.
HOME HANDlCRAFTS.—Dress-
making, Millinery, Dressmakers’ Art.
Special lectures and practical demonstration sessions at SYDNEY
TECHNICAL COLLEGE are arranged every year for correspondence
students enrolled in trade and other of the above courses.
PERSONS RESIDING IN THE SYDNEY METROPOLITAN AREA
OR IN A COUNTRY TOWN SERVED BY A TECHNICAL
COLLEGE SHOULD APPLY FOR ENROLMENT IN THE APPRO-
PRIATE ORAL CLASSES.
Fees moderate—details available on application.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS
TO: The Officer in Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division, Department of
Technical Education, 45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the
Correspondence Course,
NAME (in block letters)
ADDRESS
FRENCH
Corn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
Anthony Horderns’
Yaungest
member at
it ustralia 9 s
largest family
On the average ...
one family in three
relies on the A.IML.P.
The A.M.P. family is a special family. Not
bound by blood . . . they are bound by common
ties and common interests. They pool their
savings in the interests of each and all. They
mutually share in the benefits of their thrift, for
the A.M.P. has no shareholders, all surplus being
returned to policyholders.
No wonder that in little more than a century the
A.M.P. has become the largest mutual life assur-
ance office in the British Commonwealth, and far
and away the largest life assurance office of any
kind in its home country of Australia.
. Your A.M.P. Agent will advise you with
k ski " on your family finance so as to obtain
the maximum value of protection for you
• ® ® jiw ar| d your family. His background and
training make him the ideal person to
W assist you. The A.M.P. Agent is a "Sure
Friend in Uncertain Times".
Australian
Mutual Provident
Society
Branches throughout
Australia, New Zealand
and Great Britain.
The A.M.P, is the
largest mutual
Life Assurance
in the Empire.
General Manager: M. C. Buttfield . Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney
A2/ZOl
THE IRLING
bY E.O. SCHLUNKE
WHILE o 1 d Kronitz’s
youngest son Waltie was
being born without
qualified assistance, the
old man paced the veranda that
ran round all four sides of his
large, bungalow-style house,
annoyed with his wife for her
bad judgment after all her ex-
perience, and refusing to admit
that he should have sent for the
community’s wise woman sooner,
even at the risk of having to
pay her for a whole day while
she did nothing but talk. On
none of the other occasions had
he paced the veranda, because
he considered that bearing young
was a simple and natural func-
tion, carried out by his sheep,
cattle and horses without any
fuss; but this time his wife was
groaning and screaming as she
had never done before, and
making it impossible for him to
go to bed.
Each time he came to the south
veranda he noticed a faint
twinkling light, but he took no
notice of it for some time, being
distracted by his wife’s noises,
and much occupied in reviling
his sons for not returning with
help more quickly. At first he
thought that the fight belonged
to one of their sulkies, for he
had sent them out in all direc-
tions, but then it occurred to his
preoccupied mind that there
was no road and no one living
ou T there. He began to watch
it more narrowly ; a mysterious
fight was always a matter of
intense interest in those early
days of lonely settlement.
Then suddenly he noticed
something else which made him
catch his breath with fear ; every
time the fight brightened his wife
screamed, and each time it be-
came fainter she quietened
down. He watched it for a long
time with rising excitement until
there could be no doubt that it
was synchronised cause and
effect, and not mere coincidence.
A chilling, prickling and numb-
ing feeling took possession of
his body and mind. Incredible
as it might seem, here in Aus-
tralia was the same dreaded
“filing” that had terrified his
father and his grandfather in
the forests and swamps of
Czestochowa. He rushed into
his house, locked all the doors
and pulled down all the blinds
so that he could no longer see
the evil, flickering fight.
When his sons returned with
the midwife they found him
thumbing through the family
Bible, though he couldn’t read,
one hand trying to cover the
blank space at the back where
the new child’s name was to be
recorded, as if he was hoping
somehow to protect it from the
menace of the irling, who could
destroy it utterly or leave it de-
formed or weak-minded.
He was only half-interested
when they told him the baby was
born, because he set no value on
anything that wasn’t strong and
healthy; but when its lusty
crying proved the robustness of
its lungs he took it in his hands,
turning it this way and that with
an air of incredulity as he ex-
amined its well-formed limbs.
No doubt it was healthy and
active, and, as far as could be
judged at that early age, in full
possession of its senses. But old
Kronitz refused to be comforted.
“The fifing will get him in
the end,” he kept on saying, de-
spite the contempt of the mid-
wife.
"T WENTY years later Waltie
t Kronitz was still alive and
full of energy. Plenty of people
said he was mad, but it was only
the high-spirited madness which
affected all the rest of his family,
and made him the schoolboys’
hero ; for, being the youngest of
the Kronitzes, he was not above
bragging to us whenever and
wherever he met us. In fact, one
of the things that used to recon-
cile us to being taken to the little
bush church each Sunday, where
the bearded old pastor shouted
about hell-fire and damnation,
was the knowledge that Waltie
Kronitz and his brothers would
be there.
Usually just as the organist
was beginning to play her “for-
spiel” we sighted the dust of
their regular sulky-race, and no-
thing could induce us to go in-
side while there was a chance of
a sulky or two being overturned
before our eyes, or a terrified,
half-broken two-year-old bolting
out of control; smashing its
vehicle to pieces and nearly kill-
ing one or other of the boys.
After the service he enter-
tained us with his boasting.
What they had done during the
week; hundreds of acres of
wheat they had sown or thou-
sands of bags they had
harvested ; nocturnal sorties they
had made against the family’s
enemy Nietzsche, bearing off one
of his heavy farm implements
bodily and throwing it in a dam
where he’d never find it; or tying
a couple of his cows’ tails
together so that they’d go mad
with terror and nearly kill each
other.
Our parents attributed the wild
nature of the Kronitz boys and
their large and gross appearance
to the fact that their parents had
come from a very backward part
of Europe frequently overrun by
Russian armies. Their father
never seemed to care very much
what his sons did as long as they
were there for the major farm
jobs when he wanted them. He
paid them no regular wages, but
there was an understanding that
each would get a thousand
pounds when he married, to
give him a start on his own.
There was a condition that
Kronitz had to approve of the
girl, but since the only qualities
he stipulated were that she had
to be hard-working and of a
saving disposition, that was not
regarded as an impediment.
My juvenile impression of
Kronitz was that he was an
obstinate and stupid-looking old
man, an impression heightened
by the knowledge that he could
neither read nor write, except to
sign his name on a cheque. But
my parents told me admiringly
that he never made a mistake
in mental arithmetic, and had
frequently discomfited sharp
stock-dealers who had thought
that they could take advantage
of him.
But, though he was known to
be the shrewdest and toughest
of businessmen, there were
matters in which he was
childishly simple and supersti-
tious. In all the years that we
went visiting the Kronitzes I
never saw him eat anything but
slices of bread soaked in olive
oil; this because a quack doctor
had told him that he had a
cancer of the stomach and would
die if he ate anything else ; yet
at the same time the alcohol he
drank would have killed any but
the most robust man. He saw
fearful signs in the clouds at
sunset, in the designs the ibis
made in their flights, and above
all he feared the filing.
By “fifing” he meant the
“firlicht” or will-o’-the-wisp
(his German being as bad as his
English). For the twenty years
since Waltie’s birth he had never
ceased talking about it. No one
o Continued on page 16.)


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No. 3754
Wednesday, January 23, 1952
STORMY WEATHER.
“It started just as a cloud no bigger than a man’s hand on the horizon.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
McGIRR'S BRIGHT IDEA.
So alarmed is N.S.W. Premier James
(“Gimme”) McGirr at the appearance of
Mr. Geraghty (who holds the fate of the
McGirr Government in his hands) in the
ranks of the North Shore Opposition
members on political campaign against
the Government’s new transport plans
that he feels impelled to get ready to
meet the worst —which is due to arrive
next year, anyway—by wooing the votes
of embittered dairyfarmers. If elections
should be precipitated over the discontent
about the abolition of through-buses
from north of the harbor, the awful
bloomer of six months ago over butter
prices will have to be erased from the
minds of the “cockies,” over whom the
McGirrs were recently disposed to ride
rough-shod. Otherwise all is lost.
Hence Mr, McGirr’s brilliant idea of
rallying to himself the small farmers of
the State—whose business his 40-hour
week and its consequences have gone far
to ruin—by proposing that the Common-
wealth Government should exempt dairy-
men from all income tax for three years
in order to revive butter production.
The dairymen would then, he says, have
an incentive to work harder, thus permit-
ting butter to be sold cheaper and also
saving their farms from a “reclassifica-
tion” by Mr. McGirr for use as dictated.
Nobody believes for a moment that if
Mr. McGirr imposed State income tax
he would dare to introduce such an
innovation himself, even if he knew how.
It is, of course, impracticable, if only
because of departmental difficulties in
operating such a taxation privilege; but,
that apart, the aggravation of “unequal
taxation” (which the modern uniform
levies by the Commonwealth were
designed to remedy) would create general
uproar, and the demand for extension of
such favoritism to other taxpayers would
be accompanied by strikes in every
industry. What Mr. McGirr really means
is that the Commonwealth Government
should subsidise individual dairyfarmers
to the extent of their taxation assessments
in order to counter the erosion in pro-
duction resulting from the McGirr Gov-
ernment’s own calamitous adminis-
tration.
It is the same old “gimme” policy which
is Mr. McGirr’s only recipe for keeping
New South Wales running somehow as a
going concern. The railways are
bankrupt, the wharf equipment in Sydney
and Newcastle is too obsolete to stand
up to modern trading demands, the coal
supply is still behind requirements and
worse and dearer than ever, electricity
plants relapse into bigger and wider
blackouts the more the McGirrs
nationalise them, the roads were never so
neglected since the horse-and-bUggy days,
gmd the unions in “State undertakings”
feel themselves free to use industrial
blackmail against this “gimme” Govern-
ment to their hearts’ content. No Port
Said beggar clamoring for “backsheesh”
could show Premier McGirr any points
in his everlasting solicitation for Federal
subsidies to maintain a rate of expendi-
ture which in this age of inflation is a
crime against the taxpaying community.
It appears that without the spending-
money of which the McGirr Govern-
ment, along with all other Australian con-
sumers, public and private, must now
necessarily suffer some deprivation, Mr.
McGirr will not know how to carry on.
What the dairyfarmers and the wheat-
farmers want is not some special taxa-
tion exemption, but a fair deal for their
industries. If Mr. McGirr aims at
encouraging them to produce more, let
him relax country railway-freight
charges lately increased up to 400 per
cent. Mr. McGirr’s previous approach
to the dairymen’s struggle to keep their
heads above water was to “fix” the retail
price for butter at 20 per cent, under the
prescribed figure and to threaten that if
they did not provide butter for city
“toilers” at an unprofitable return he
would compulsorily resume their farms
and “give them to returned soldiers
willing to work them.” Under the un-
favorable reaction—great numbers of
dairymen are returned soldiers themselves
anyhow—Mr. McGirr had to think again,
and quickly. His Government’s policy
of compulsorily resuming land at pre-
inflation prices for closer-settlement is on
a par with his threat to the dairyfarmers ;
and now he wants some other Govern-
ment to placate the countrymen “in order
to increase production.” There is a mild
“Labor” panic beginning lest pretty soon
N.S.W. may not be providing enough
food for its population—an election point
which the McGirr crowd would not easily
laugh off.
Mr. McGirr has noticed, he says, that
the Commonwealth Government and
representatives of the primary industries
are alike anxious to increase production,
and he makes both those parties a present
of his suggestion. Therewith he is pre-
pared, no doubt, when he meets the State
electors, to protest that he has been
willing to co-operate with Canberra for
this national purpose and has been
rebuffed. The McGirrs are, in fact, the
last hope in the Evatt-Calwell-Ashley
campaign to obstruct the Commonwealth
Government’s mandate and programme ;
against any electioneering charge of
obstruction in the chief industrial State —
where under “Labor” the level of produc-
tion has reached a record low —this
latest McGirr proposition offers prospects
of an alibi.
In the role of collaborator in boosting
production Mr. McGirr may expect to
receive suggestions in return. There are
lots of things he could do if he wishes
to escape judgment on his refusal so far
to look at any of them. He could give a
great impulse to revival of rural industry
by decentralisation of government of a
vast area of New South Wales, in which
Sydney has ceased to offer any inspiration
for productive effort. He could join with
other State political parties in helping to
create New England and Riverina as
separate States. He could abandon his
Ministry’s obstinate refusal to counten-
ance machine-extraction of pillar-coal,
and so do his part to clear the way for
an immense increase in coal production
and permit the better grading of fuel for
fastidious consumers like Bunnerong. He
could take up the responsibility, which
his Government has hitherto shirked, for
such shameful delays in power-plant as
in the construction of the Pyrmont power-
house. He could ask the Menzies Gov-
ernment urgently for details of the report
by the Commonwealth’s investigator on
port deficiencies, and make the modernis-
ing of Sydney and Newcastle wharves
and wharf equipment a first-priority job.
Nothing would reduce commodity costs
more quickly. He could reduce expendi-
ture by cutting down his own overloaded
public service, and legislate to ban Com-
munists from State Government employ-
ment and from 4, local executives of trade-
unions. He could decentralise Sydney’s
early-Victorian produce markets, and by
legislation require local municipalities or
the Sydney City Council to set up at
least two or three regional markets in
suburban centres. He could experiment
with the abolition of the fish, potato and
egg boards, among others, to see whether
it be true that they are mere dead hands
on efforts of private enterprise to increase
and cheapen supply of basic foods.
These suggestions do not exhaust the
possibilities of action. If Mr. McGirr
really wants to test the sincerity of the
Commonwealth Government’s policy
(which, of course, he doubts) he has only
to offer publicly to attend a conference
in Canberra to thrash out—for New
South Wales alone, if necessary—a co-
operative programme for the boosting of
farming industries to reduce food costs
at home and provide a respectable margin
for export. If he did something like that
he might even find that money would
become available to speed his plough.
But then, of course, he would cease to
be James (“Gimme”) McGirr.
REPORT ON KOREA
{By a Bulletin writer just returned .)
I. Hadrian’s Wall.
The grim fact most obvious on first sight
of Korea is that the war there is no longer
a local war. It is a restricted war as to
area and position, but it is no longer a
conflict merely for terrain, with small
United Nations forces moving backwards
and forwards pursued by or pursuing
hordes of half-armed North Koreans in
the confident hope that attrition will
presently beat them, and that then the
status quo of the 38th Parallel will be
restored and the muddling plans of
U.N.O, allowed to function once more
without interruption.
Korea, on appearance, holds the first
phase of a war to save the world. It is,
on its physical make-up, an aggressive
defence of Japan, the civilised world’s
main potential base on the Asian side of
the North Pacific, carried on in a sort of
Hadrian’s Wall fortress-area regardless
of cost. In its inner nature it looks like a
modern version of the Spanish war of the
’thirties which preceded World War
11, but it has developed into something
which makes the Spanish contest
look puny. It might, in fact, be said
to be a combination of the Spanish war.
Hitler’s “phony” war and some of the
other preliminary phases of World
War II when each side was feeling out
the other in one or two main areas, build-
ing up resources at home, conditioning
their peoples for the main fight, testing
out materiel and leadership and creating
trained cadres with war experience for
the main battles to come.
It is vain to ask within the war area
whether these things are true. In a battle-
field in which there is now comparatively
little battle, and yet in which there is some
fighting all the time round a sheltered
island where the possibilities of peace
have been debated for months, it is impos-
sible to obtain informed opinion, frankly
expressed, on the future or the purpose
of the war. Generals are fighting-men.
Politics is not their business save as they
can use politics for military purposes.
Whatever views they have about the
nature of the war and its trends they must
cloak —apart from other considerations,
as a security measure. The more clear-
minded they are about it the better
the cloak they fashion. And almost
every leader in the field —and the field
includes all the Orient —expresses a
variant viewpoint as to purpose, right
strategy and the ultimate trend of the war.
The eye, therefore, is the best guide to
local conditions, and the wide world of
diplomacy, away from the mud and the
snow and the smack of the 155’s
which sounds throughout the day and
night at the front like a boy throwing
stones on a roof at minute intervals, is
the field in which to study the larger
issues and purposes.
What the eye tells in Korea is that
the whole of land and sea from the rear
of the 140-odd miles of front f 6 Tokyo,
where tly? High Command resides and
plans, is a field through which is fed a
defensive area 100 miles deep, containing
well on to half a million men of the
United Nations, well armed, dug-in in
trench systems, served with fire-power
such as never has been known in Asian
history, backed by navies and air fleets
and by huge transport facilities to bring
materials for battle from the ends of
the earth. The roots of the war are set
deep in the industrial hearts of the United
States, the United Kingdom, Canada and
Australia. The war ranges deep into
enemy-held territory, about 200 miles and
more by air on scales of dizzy speed and
intensity. Along the coasts behind the
enemy lines the U.N. navies, including the
Royal Australian Navy, plaster his
facilities for leagues inland, while their
Sunderlands and Mariners range the seas
over thousands of square miles right up
to the doors of Vladivostok, policing the
traffic and ever on the watch for hostile
aircraft and hostile submarines.
Huge radar screens have been built up
so that no M.I.G. can stir without being
detected. Extensive communications and
facilities for aerial war have been con-
structed where a year or so ago the con-
ditions of transport and living were those
of primitive Asia. Kimpo is one of the
largest aerodromes in the world, one of
the most modernly equipped. Every route
is lined with uniformed laborers widen-
ing or repairing existing roads or build-
ing new roads. The whole structure of
the battle-area on the Western Nations
side has an air of permanence despite the
obvious elasticity and mobility of its
organisation, which is its most striking
feature. This is a battle area in which
American generals live in s t e a m-
heated buldings, in which beer and
turkey find their way up to the
front-line as part of the ration, and in
which less than half a dozen corps areas
overall 142 miles wide are served by
100,000 miles of telephone-channels. On
parts of the front there is always some
restless but sporadic skirmishing.
The 155’s and the Sin. Persuaders,
which seem to be sawn-off Sin. naval guns
made mobile and used as howitzers, and
the trusty 25-pounders keep up a steady
racket. The little spotter-planes weave
in and out of the hills, to be followed in
by flying death striking hawk-like within
easy sight of frontal companies. Four
or five brigades of yelling Chinese may
descend on one of the isolated features
which make up the front, and in the crest
of which men live like rats —very com-
fortably-placed rats —and leave behind a
horrible medley of staccato noise and
flying debris. And then the guns grow
hoarse in the melee, and the crackle of
rifle and automatic fire permeates the
dry, clear air above the snow and rattles
against the ice-clad hills.
There are daily patrols in most
sectors—little bodies of men sent
out to take a hill, only to abandon
it as each side keeps its muscles
as it were, from cramping and its men
from becoming utterly stale as men
became in France in 1939-40, browned-
off with inaction, immobilised mentally
and physically by the exasperations
incident to doing nothing but eat and
wonder what it’s all about, and when it
will be over and why the politicians won’t
let them get at the so-and-sos and finish
it all off. Never was a front more on
tip-toe and ready to go than the Western
side of the Korean front. The irritation
of waiting even gets on the nerves
of highly-ranking American generals, and
some of them are hard to restrain from
breaking the rule that while the peace-
talks meander on there must be no
unnecessary aggression, no needless waste
of life.
The front, in fact, gives the feeling of
watching a giant muttering and restless
in his sleep. Inside, however, where its
vital organs pulse and beat, there is a
sense of vigorous purpose. On our side the
policy is defence, but dynamic defence.
And nothing puts the seal of its immensity
on it more than its leadership. General
Ridgway is the kind of man who might
move in the same halls as Marlborough
and Wellington.
He is such a man as one meets only
very few times in a lifetime even in an
age of ability. He is tall, strongly-built
and quiet of mien. From some angles he
has a striking resemblance to General
Mac Arthur, or, rather, to an Oriental
statue of General Mac Arthur carved in
the hardest and smoothest of light-brown
teak. He is clear-thinking and simple
in expression. To him men are “men”
and not “civilian or military personnel”
or “other ranks.” When he means “do”
he says “do,” and not “take definite action
to accomplish.”
Much of what is true of the
Western Nations side of the war
is true, and more, of the enemy
side. His forces number about
twice those of the United Nations force—
he has going on for 800,000 men in
Korea. As the United Nations force is
predominantly American and American-
led, so his force is predominantly
Chinese, but with the difference that it is
very doubtful whether he is Chinese-led
at the highest levels. This is no longer
a war between the North Koreans and
the defenders of the South whom
Moscow is pleased to call “the brutal
imperialist aggressors.” It is a war be-
tween the Western nations and the
Soviet bloc, with a few North Korean
corps on the enemy side packed for
appearance sake into the battle-line on
the far-eastern end of the sector. All
the main sectors are held by Chinese
troops ; but the fact that they are Chinese
does not dispose of the truth that we
are also fighting the rest of the Russian
bloc.
Chinese organisation during the capture
of China a couple of years ago was as
typically Chinese as was its armament.
But now it seems to be Russian in
features, its tactics Russian in nature. It
uses the mass-attack not on the horde
principle of the Orient but on the wave
principle of the Russians. Its guns are
Russian, from the 57mm. up to the self-
propelled 122 and 152. It has ack-ack
of Russian calibres, about 84 and 122.
It applies its artillery in division lots,
sometimes turning a whole division into
a few thousand yards, flinging a
couple of thousand shells an hour into a
battalion area. Its front-line hand-to-
hand weapon is the burp-gun of a type
without which the Russian soldier feels
unclothed. Its approach to battle and
to the role and importance of manpower
is purely Russian, according to Eastern
Front concepts of World War 11. The
enemy never attacks except with an over-
whelming superiority of numbers. Amd
when he finds a hill peopled by lot)
soldiers of his own dug in a few yards
from 200 of ours he clears up the situation
by blasting the whole lot, including his
own, out of existence before sending up
a monopolising force. His fighter aircraft
are Russian, and first-class, as history has
proved. The absence of bombers so far
is also an Eastern Front characteristic.
A captured pilot has said that he and his
companions had been trained in Russia.
Chinese (or Russian) leadership is little
inferior to our own. The enemy’s com-
munications and maintenance facilities,
despite the fact that they are bombed
and ours are not, and that they have to
serve twice our forces over snow-clad
wastes with seemingly primitive means,
are fully equal to the task up to date.
The foe is inferior to the U.N. forces in
fire-power, but superior in numbers and
in the will to die, which is absolute. He
has the communications to mount local
attacks capable of threatening the integ-
rity of our line, but he lacks the swif
mobility and elasticity of organisation
which make for surprise. He is the


Russian steamroller translated into
Chinese.
There is little doubt about what we are
facing. The constant substitution of
troops on both sides leaves small question
in the mind of an observer that whatever
the Korean war once was, it is now the
pilot-plant for World War III in which
each side is testing weapons, training
cadres and probing for information about
the other fellow’s potential so as to be
able to fight on a grander scale if and
when necessary, armed with full know-
ledge and trained leaders and embarrassed
by no surprises from the enemy.
The view from a Korean hill over the
world scene presents a grim prospect, in
the forefront of which is the certainty
that the next few months will see the
whole civilised world called on to accept
new commitments of defence.
EK DUM.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Controls and Foodstuffs.
Hopping in on ths current uproar about
falling farm production, D. Mackinnon,
chairman of the Federal Liberal party’s
rural committee, said sensibly enough
that, whatever the Governments may do
about it, the real solver of the problem
is the farmer.
After which Mr. Mackinnon an-
nounced that his committee would meet
at Albury in February in company with
“practical farmers from every State,
observers from State rural committees,
and State and Federal Parliamentary
members of rural electorates.” Where-
upon, it is hoped, “a close liaison
between the various organisational and
Parliamentary committees set up to tackle
agricultural and allied problems” will re-
sult.
This country has tried to do a lot of
things with conferences and committees;
now it is apparently going to try to
grow more food with them. It is possible
that a jolly good talking-to will send
farmers rushing madly forth to sow
wheat and cucumbers and spring lambs
and all the rest of it, though they’ve
been talked at a great deal lately and re-
main stubbornly unresponsive.
Early in the formation of Mr.
Mackinnon’s party it had a lot to say
about the evils of controls on industry,
enterprise, commerce and public welfare.
Since then it has been strangely silent on
the subject, except in certain directions.
His committee should find out how free
farmers are to sell their produce and how
free transport is to take it where it is
needed.
Sydney starved for potatoes while
thousands of bags lay in Tasmania and
in the N.S.W. north, kept there under
board orders. The city went without
butter not because of shortage but by
official order. It goes short of fish
largely because fish are “controlled.” Just
now in northern N.S.W. flour-mills are
refusing orders from bakers because of
high freights on Government-run rail-
ways. At every border inspectors wait to
pounce on persons daring to cross with
trucks of foodstuffs without official
permission (despite Section 92 of the
Constitution). These are but a few
samples of what goes on.
It appears that the horde of chairmen,
secretaries, inspectors, floor-managers,
clerks, economists, typists, liftmen and so
forth who staff the hundred-and-one
commodity-control boards in Australia
will not be present at Albury. All the
same, they and their works should receive
a very close scrutiny from Mr.
Mackinnon’s committee.
"We Are the Dead."
From “Ek Dum”:
The scenes most deeply etched into the
memory during a I.S,U<X)-mile tour to Japan
and Korea are those which embrace two war-
ccmetencs.
One lies at the head of the blue-green bay of
rusan, and is part of the Korean, or rather
1 the Asian, _ war. The other spreads over
? c r s of the highest ground of the low island
“L t-abuan, where are gathered together 3900
mcers and men, killed in action, died in prison-
amps and executed by the Japanese in the last
Phases of World War 11.
The Pusan cemetery is a bright and cere-
nious place. It lies in the higher slopes of
natural amphitheatre. The hills around are
. rown with a winter bareness. The vegetation
win t the cold of the bitter Manchurian
l' n ' , The sea and the golden-brown sand
na ™ tllc °oly splashes of color deriving from
the t 5 1 - V l3l p^ace ’ Much is so like parts of
t u • u , 81 coas t where Australians first won
at m P iaces the world’s soldiers. But
the .°f the spot where the men of
m. m , Unit ! d Nations lie flutter the standards of
bait in 01 ! 8 taking part as allies in the muted
furtiior-, 18 hi being two hours flying
briiiJ* o** 0 **- These flags form a splash of
of w u- c £ 3 hove a little plot of crosses, each
36 imi™ l Wld eventually contain the graves of
named n i OW ? above the level lines of
‘atried dead upon the slopes.
Austin a sym h°l of time’s changes that the
Uall;ui hag (lies next to the Turkish flag,
that down beside the crosses under which
boys fie are the sadly numerous
crescents which jnark the resting-places of the
sons and grandsons of men who fought against
us when our soldiers earned the name of Anzac.
Somebody has planted a little bush of holly
m front of the graves of the Northumberlands
and the Gloucesters and Ulsters who died in
Che valley beyond Seoul in the epic fight of
April. It is now throwing out scarlet berries,
some of which have fallen to the ground. One
of our party bends down and picks one up to
hide the tears which come into his eyes at the
thought of those young boys, sent uncomplain-
ing to die so far from their homes as part of
the vast sacrifice which the United Kingdom
has made over twelve Jong years to save the
world from sinking back to a barbarous
medievalism.
In Labuan there is a different air about the
cemetery. It lacks as yet the color of the one
at Pusan, but it is part of Australian history.
Its field is set on a slight slope towards the
west. Palm-trees wave round its fringes, and
its general air is one of absolute peace. There
are no crosses. Each evenly-spaced grave has
a substantial little headstone with an inscribed
bronze plate. Here lie Australians who died in
taking the island itself, British troops of the
Borneo region, victims of the Sandakan death
march, the dead of Tarakan.
Here are two V.Cs., Tom Derrick, of
and Mackey. Here is the gallant
Matthews, who gave his life for his comrades
m Sandakan camp before a Japanese firing-
squad. Here is the epitome, in 3900 epitaphs,
* *9? °fl en inscribed to an unknown soldier,
of all the suffering and sacrifice which kept
Australia free of the enemy for nearly four
years while other countries were ravaged, a
sacrifice too little remembered and appreciated
because so remote from home.
When one sees what conquest did to other
countries one feels that those who lie in
Labuan, their resting-place tended by a Digger
of World War I, would feel even the sacrifice
of their youth worth while in keeping this
country unmarked by the ugly scars of war.
Enter N.A.T.O.
At the State dinner in Ottawa given in
his honor by the Canadian Government
Mr. Churchill, in a speech “frequently
interrupted with deafening applause,”
made some significant references to the
organisation which is fast replacing
U.N.O. as an international instrument
for the securing of the world’s peace. His
words on this subject were:
The North Atlantic Treaty is the surest
guarantee of preventing war —or of ensur-
ing victory should hopes of peace be shat-
tered.
Until now the Atlantic Treaty has been
regarded only as a military pact. But
my visit to Washington it is ex-
panding into the conception of the North
Atlantic community of free nations acting
together not only for defence, but for the
welfare and happiness and progress of all
the peoples of the free world.
Tor this we need to do all in our power
to promote a united Europe... .Here in
Canada, in the United States, in Britain,
in Western Europe, all of us are united
to defend the cause of freedom with all
our strength, and by that strength we
hope to preserve unbroken the peace
which is our hearts’ desire.
If this means anything, it means that
the principal partners in the N.A.T.0.,
Britain and U.S.A., have abandoned con-
fidence in U.N.O. as an insurance against
aggressive war and have returned to the
war-time concept of the first United ■
Nations (their own two peoples) and the
first Atlantic pact, made by Churchill and
Roosevelt for a light to the world towards
a recovery of freedom for each nation,
large or small, to live and develop in
security its own life. U.N.O. has failed
through the wrangling and dissension
introduced by the “Iron Curtain” Soviet
bloc ; the “teeth” it was supposed to grow
have never materialised ; it would dis-
appear in the budding conflict which has
called the North Atlantic Pact into
existence as surely as did the League of
Nations when Hitler gave the signal for
war, and Moscow hastened to make its
treaty of friendship and alliance with him
in that decision.
What the Churchill-Truman talks did
was to provide a permanent executive for
the new organisation in place of a number
of sectional committees meeting as
required and unable to make an executive
decision without reference to “higher
levels,”
For the new peace - organisation
aspirant members will have to qualify
with something more than an annual
club subscription.
Inflationary Wages.
On the eve of another staggering quarterly
rise in the basic wage the Federal con-
ciliation commissioner for the group
which includes the metal trades has given
a reserved judgment on a claim by the
metal-working unions that a propor-
tionate rise in marginal wages, calculated,
like the basic wage, on the C-index of
prices of commodities, should be awarded
for skill. The commissioner refused to
grant this claim on the grounds that the
reasons advanced were invalid —in which
he quoted a report by the Commonwealth
Statistician as supporting him —and that
the effect could only be grossly infla-
tionary.
In short, the conciliation commissioner
is following the principles of the Chifley
Government’s amendment of the Arbitra-
tion Act requiring the Arbitration Court
—of which the commissioners are a part
—to take into consideration in their
awards the effect on national interests.
The N.S.W. Industrial Commission a
few months ago ruled in similar strain
on claims for upward variations of mar-
gins. In the mining industry the Coal
Tribunal adjourned hearing on claims by
the Miners’ Federation pending the deci-
sion, now given, by Commissioner Galvin.
Protest stoppages are at once being
proposed by the metal-trades unions,
ironworkers, engineers and others, and no
doubt new direct-action threats will be
made against individual employers—the
yielding to which by those in the metal
trades has been the subject of severe
strictures from conciliation commis-
sioners. The wage-structure is fast becom-
ing a fantastic monstrosity. There is no
worker today paid so low a wage as the
“standard wage” ; there is no “basic-wage
worker’’ working alongside the skilled
man with a margin ; and the supposition
that the price of groceries should produce
each quarter a longer and longer yard-
stick to be applied once to the wage-base
and again to skilled margins simply means
doubling the inflationary influence of
wage rises. The crowning absurdity
would be a quarterly rise in wages, on
the same calculation, to meet an apparent
scarcity of labor —that is to say, as an
inducement to workers to do any work
at all.
The unions which demand higher mar-
gins on the C-index remain steadily
opposed to extra (incentive) payments for
higher output, the only consideration on
which higher pay could reasonably be
based. Till the industrial community
recognise a common interest in both sides
on a wage-scheme which will reflect a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s wage,
secure continuity of work and assure
extra payment for extra output—and the
opportunity should come at the Chief
Judge’s conference next month —there is
little hope of emergence from the present
stalemate in the fight against shortages
and inflated prices.
If employers and unions accept a view
that the present set-up must run to a
crash before anything can be done, then
they appear certain to get their wish.
O-
Flowering Wilderness.
Though it is doubtful if any of the
people who buy them know it, there’s a
man down on the Murray, near Mildura,
who is making a good thing out of
growing flowers and air-freighting them
to Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
He is I. J. Voullaire, who told the
“Riverlander,” organ of the Murray
Valley Development League, that he
grows the flowers on 20 irrigated acres,
sends away as much as a ton of them
by air from the one picking, also grows
150 acres of vegetables and has 200 acres
under citrus and vines, expects to
consign 800 tons of vegetables by road-
truck to the capitals between November
and this month, has a permanent staff of
over 30, employs up to 100 at times, has
an annual payroll running into about
£23,000, and never gets “less than £3OO
a week in returns.”
This 600-acre property is on the
N.S.W. side of the river, on country
which has hitherto run about a sheep to
10 acres, maybe a family every 500 (yes,
500) square miles, where you might camp
for a week and never see a soul, and
where the only vegetables you got came
out of tins, and the only flowers were
the billy-buttons in the swamps and
Darling pea on the back land.
There could be a thousand Voullaires
using the river water on the now-idle
land, and they’d scarcely be noticed in
that lonely stretch of country. Every
time some expert or other talks about
Australia being capable of supporting
only 20 million people, think of that.
There are three other things to think
about. Modern transport has made
Voullaire’s venture possible. He uses
planes and road-trucks. “Railways,” said
he, “are not satisfactory ; they knock the
stuff about too much, for one thing.” For
another, what with fixed routes, breaks-
of-gauge and general slowness, only part
of the vegetables and flowers would
survive a rail journey.
A second thing is that Voullaire’s enter-
prise is private. He saw the chance and
took it, putting his capital, brains and
guts into it. All he asks of Governments
is that they keep the river flowing and
don’t tax him off the place.
The third thing—for people in the
capitals—is the fact that this man makes
a good thing out of growing flowers for
cities from 200 to 500 miles away, and,
in his own words, “Sydney’s about the
best for flowers.” Sydney! Which can’t
get enough vegetables for its population!
As It Is in Melbourne.
“Feng-Shui”; The N.S.W. Supreme
Court judge and the K.C. who have been
touring the various cities to see if their
drinking habits are better or worse than
Sydney’s needn’t investigate Melbourne.
We’re all right.
You can always get a drink in Mel-
bourne. There are many devious ways in
which you can get it, but if all else fails
you can always dash into a pub at half-
past five, and, if you’re strong enough,
force your way gradually to the bar and
jam yourself in there and you’ll get a
beer in time —half of it down your neck
when your neighbor jogs your elbow.
By telling the frenzied barman that you’re
one of a party you can get five at a time
and swallow them in quick succession,
and if the glasses run out you can always
pick one up off the floor or from a shelf
and get it back full of beer and all of
the other fellow’s wogs still in it.
That is why we are so tough in Mel-
bourne. We simply have to be to sur-
vive our own drinking habits. By
constant swilling we have accustomed our
stomachs to take the largest quantity of
liquor in the shortest time of any animal
in existence except the camel, and we
have become so immunised against every
known disease through contact with it,
owing to the barman’s careful swilling of
our glasses in the same old dirty water,
that we'are probably the healthiest com-
munity in the world —far healthier than
the parsons and the Local Option people
who have fastened our drinking habits
on us.
Having got down our six or seven we
can fall out on to the footpath and make
for our train, tram or bus or climb into
our cars and join the stream of home-
ward traffic, happy in our feelings of
contentment and in the knowledge that
our wife is waiting for us with a well-
cooked dinner, which we will be allowed
to eat in gloomy silence, the beer having
evaporated and nbthing replaced it.
Some misguided publicans have been
trying to refine us by establishing
lounges and beer-gardens where we can
sit sedately at tables and be served by
cheerful waiters and engage in polite but
boring conversation. Who wants that?
There is nothing human or'exciting about
it; and it would be even worse if the
pubs stayed open till 10 or 11 in the
evening. How could we maintain our
interest in the beer if the parsons lifted
the repression on it and we could always
get it and not feel any more guilty about
drinking it than we do about drinking
a cup of tea? I don’t suppose a savage
whose habit it is to go naked gets
particularly excited at the sight of a girl’s
ankle.
A.B.C.'s News Theme.
From M. F. Dixon (formerly head of the
A.B.C. news-service);
The A.B.C.’s decision to abandon “Advance
Australia Fair” as its news theme recalls the
circumstances in which the theme was introduced
in 1942, when all commercial radio-stations in
Australia began to relay the A.B.C. news-
service.
On Tuesday, February 10, more than 60 news-
paper and radio delegates met at Canberra, at
the invitation of the Curtin Government, to
discuss censorship problems and the more
effective publicising of the Government’s war
effort. That conference extended far into the
night, and was memorable for the many verbal
clashes which occurred between the chief pub-
licity censor (Mr. E, G. Bonney) and some of
the daily-newspaper representatives. There were
also fireworks when the chairman of the A.B.C.
(Mr. W. J, Cleary) and the chairman of the
Australian Newspapers Conference (Mr. Errol
G. Knox) clashed.
But the highlight of the conference was the
off-the-record review of the war situation given
to delegates late at night by Prime Minister
Curtin, who spoke for more than an hour
without notes, and covered the whole field from
the fall of France to the imminent fall of
Singapore. Delegates heard for the first lime
full details of the tremendous damage done in
the Japanese sneak-raid on Pearl Harbor and
of the circumstances in which the British war-
ships, Prince of Wales and Repulse, had been
sunk in Malayan waters by Japanese planes.
Before the conference ended, about 1 a.m.,
Curtin hinted that when the A.B.C. and com-
mercial-station representatives met next day he
expected them to work out a common policy
on news. The war situation was grim, he said,
and it might be necessary for him at any
moment to speak to the people of Australia as
a whole through a nation-wide network.
Early next morning Warren Denning, who
was on the A.B.C. news staff at Canberra at
the time, brought word to Cleary that the
commercial-station delegates intended to urge at
the conference that the Department of Informa-
tion should prepare three five-minute news-
bulletins a day for broadcasting through all
radio-stations in Australia. Cleary was quick
to realise the danger of such a proposal to the
national stations —it would mean taking out of
the hands of the commission the responsibility
for what appeared in its news-bulletins; and he
still had vivid recollections of the turmoil which
had followed the taking-over by the Department
of Information of the A.B.C.’s 7 p.m. news-
bulletin shortly after the outbreak of the
European war. Cleary, T. W. Bearup (acting
general-manager of the A.8.C.), Denning and
myself discussed the situation for an hour, and
Cleary then announced that if the commercial
(i Continued on next page.)


■ ‘
4203
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVEN*
~if... -utA/dt min/
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
■A
delegates made such a proposal he would
immediately counter with an offer to make the
A.B.C. news-bulletins available to all commercial
stations in Australia free of cost for the duration
of the war.
Immediately the conference opened under the
chairmanship of Senator Ashley (P.M.G. and
Minister for Information), Mr. A. C. Paddison,
as spokesman for the commercial stations, said
his members would be happy to broadcast three
news-bulletins a day prepared by the Department
of Information, provided national stations would
also agree to take them. Paddison was sup-
ported by Ray Dooley (secretary of the Federa-
tion of Commercial Broadcasting Stations), who
said he felt sure the scheme would meet with
the approval of the Government. Cleary
immediately advanced his counter-proposal,
which sounded so attractive that the commercial
representatives could hardly believe their ears,
Cleary’s proposal was that all commercial
stations in Australia should relay the A.B.C.’s
7.45 a.m., 12.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. Australian
news-bulletins daily, free of all cost to them
and without any advertisement for the A.8.C.,
for the duration of the war. Commercial
stations would also be free to relay the A.B.C.’s
overseas news-bulletins if they wished, but this
would not be compulsory. Chairman Ashley
looked hard at Cleary to make sure he meant
what he said; he then rang immediately for
Mr. R. E. (Bob) Hawes, secretary of the Depart-
ment of Information. “Let us get this oiler
down before we go any further,” he said. “Yes,
let us get it in writing,” chorused the commercial
boys, who still appeared to think the offer was
too good to be true. However, Cleary was as
good as his word; and within half-an-hour the
agreement had been drawn up and signed on
behalf of all present.
Ashley then went off to tell Prime Minister
Curtin of the deal he had clinched. In his
absence someone thought of the cost of the
landlines to the commercial stations. “I’ll soon
get Fanning to fix that,” Ashley commented on
his return. Fanning, who was acting Director-
General of Posts and Telegraphs at the time,
was called in and told of the arrangement.
“We can provide the lines all right,” he said,
“but it will be highly inconvenient. The
important question is, who is going to pay for
them?” Ashley, having got so far, wasn’t
going to let a detail like that upset his apple-
cart; and he readily agreed to Fanning’s sugges-
tion that he (Ashley), as Minister for Informa-
tion, should accept a debit from himself as
Postmaster-General for the cost of the land-
lines. A rough estimate of the amount involved
was £75 a day. “A mere matter of book
entries,” someone remarked, and Ashley
smilingly agreed.
The commercial boys were still grinning
broadly as they left the conference-room. They
had made a highly profitable deal or brought
off a tremendous bluff —I could never be sure
which. The service began on the following
Monday, February 16, with news of the fall of
Singapore. Three days later it carried details
of the bombing of Darwin.
Reverting to the abandonment of the theme
which has heralded the A.B.C. news sessions
for nearly ten years, those in the know will
smile at chairman Boyer’s excuse that it is
cheapening “Advance Australia Fair” to use
it so many times a day. The plain fact is that
the commission never liked the theme, and tried
a number of times over the years to find an
acceptable substitute, without success. The
musical “heads” of the A.B.C. have always
maintained that “Advance Australia” doesnt
rate very highly as a composition and shouldnt
be used on the national stations. It is any
odds that that is the real reason it has been
dropped.
POLITICAL POINTS
A mixture of generosity and shrewd-
ness lay behind one sentence in
Churchill’s address to Congress; when
he said that Britain would require U.S.
aid “if we are to realise in good time
the very high level of military strength
which the Labor Government boldly
aimed at and to which they committed
us.” In paying the Attlee Government
this tribute —not the first since his return
to office —he ensured that his predeces-
sors would share any credit that might
come from the success of the rearmament
policy, but also demonstrated how base-
less were the charges of warmonger
hurled at him during the election cam-
paign not only by Labor rebels such as
Aneurin Sevan but also by responsible
Ministers, notably Herbert Morrison.
Britain’s P.M. will be rated as a war-
monger by the ban-the-atom-bomb
school for a piece of advice he gave
U.S. Congressmen;
If I may say this, members of the
Congress, be careful above all things,
therefore, not to let go of the atomic
weapon until you are sure, and more than
sure, that other means of preserving peace
are jn your hands.
Commonsense advice which America is
not likely to ignore.
When H. O. Davis, Federal president
of the A.W.U., spoke of an unemploy-
ment pool forming in Australia, Albert
Monk of the A.C.T.U. commented; “We
should stop this talk of a recession.
By talking about it we might help to
cause one.” He said that credit-
restriction, the rearmament programme
and sterling difficulties would obviously
bring changes in the incidence of employ-
ment with labor being transferred to
basic essential industries, but he did not
see “any cause for panic.” That seems
a reasonable comment, but “Fixer”
Ashley doesn’t think so. To him it is a
sign that Albert is “out of touch with the
Labor movement.” The Senator himself
is no doubt in close touch with the
“Labor” movement —or with that portion
of it which has been spreading the unem-
ployment-pool canard since before the
1949 election —but he is out of touch with
reality.
Senator McLeay, Minister for Ship-
ping and Transport, a portfolio which
bore Ashley’s weight for some years, says
there are so many vacancies in the trans-
port industries that no one willing to
work should find it difficult to get a
job. Road-, rail- and sea-transport
authorities all agreed that shortage of
manpower was one of their main
problems. Railways alone could do with
20,000 extra men ; naval construction and
repairs could provide jobs for another
7000 and commercial shipbuilding many
more.
Premier McGrrrrr suggested, and
Graham, his Minister for Agriculture,
loyally echoed him, that as an incentive
to increased production wheat- and
dairyfarmers should be exempted from
taxation for three years. This, he main-
tained, would encourage them to plant
more wheat and milk more cows. It was
one of those ideas that sound valid for
almost as long as they take to utter.
Assuming, as the McGrrrrr does, that
tax-exemption would mean more wheat
and dairy products, what then? We need
more potatoes. Exempt the spud-grower.
Eggs will be scarce by Easter. Exempt
the poultryfarmer. Owing to the high
price of wool the graziers won’t sell
lambs for slaughter. Exempt income
from fat lambs. If that means a fall in
wool-production, exempt income from
wool. The idea can’t be confined to
primary industry. We need more coal.
Exempt the miners’ pay. More steel.
Exempt everyone engaged in that in-
dustry. The wharfies won’t work hard
enough to get the ships away. Exempt
’em. More houses needed? Exempt the
brickies, plasterers, carpenters and the
rest. Revenue will have to be made up
by increasing taxes on those industries in
which output is high. The increased taxes
will make them reduce their output,
whereupon they can be exempted, too.
At that stage, with the exchequer empty,
but with every silo, siding, warehouse
and wharf chock-a-block with goods, the
McGrrrrr will probably have another in-
spiration.
McGrrrrr’s hypocritical yelps about the
wheatgrowers might have gone down
better if he hadn’t bumped up wheat
freights recently and if his trains took to
carrying superphosphate to the wheat
districts instead of beer and fancy-goods.
Next month the Lord Mayors of the
six State capitals intend to beard
Menzies and invite him to pay rates on
Commonwealth Government buildings.
He should give in, if only for the enjoy-
ment of watching the rush of shire and
municipal councils to the six State
capitals to invite their Governments to
do the same thing.
Queensland “Labor” is met this day to
make a Premier of Mr. Gair, a Treasurer
of Mr. Walsh, and Ministers of Messrs.
Foley (Lands), Collins (Agriculture),
Larcombe (Justice), Jones (Labor and
Industry), Moore (Health), Devries (Edu-
cation), Power (Mines), Duggan (Trans-
port) and Hilton (Works). At least that’s
the bunch that’s tipped. Queensland
papers call it a “stop-gap” Ministry,
which means one to fill the interval
between now and the next State election.
That election won’t make any difference ;
the dice are too well loaded against the
will of the people. “Labor” wins in
Queensland on a minority vote.
It seems that the money the Corns
spent on the “No” case in last year’s
referendum didn’t all come from Red
salmon after all. Rightwingers who have
been taking a peek at the books of the
Ironworkers’ Association claim that
£ll,OOO of the union’s funds were used
for that purpose. Apparently McPhillips
and Co. agree with Evatt and his fol-
lowers on yet another point—they’d
rather be fought inside the unions than
in the courts.
Queensland Acting-Treasurer Walsh
told an A.W.U. delegates meeting in
Brisbane that he was scared that the
“Labor” movement might be “wrecked
by individualism creeping into unionism
and the political structure.” Individual-
ism doesn’t have to creep into anything ;
it stands squarely on its feet and walks
in and announces itself with fire in its
eye. Perhhps that’s what scares Mr,
Walsh.
Amid the spate of words about
“betrayal” and “remember the atrocities”
which the Communists, with tongue in
cheek, have already turned on and which
“Labor” members will be repeating
ad nauseam during the Japanese Treaty
debate, a few plain facts should be borne
in mind. Signing a peace-treaty does not
mean we have forgotten Japanese aggres-
sion or forgiven the Nip for his cruelty to
our p.-0.-w. It is merely a commonsense
acceptance of the lessons of history.
Wars don’t last for ever and post-war
occupations must have a limit, too.
cannot keep troops in Japan indehm e y,
and without such policing we cannot
prevent Japanese rearmament. Even it
we could, an unarmed and unprotected
Japan would be an open invitation to
Russo-Chinese forces to swoop in and
take possession. That, of course, explains
the attitude of Australian Communists
towards the treaty. “Labor” men un-
sympathetic to Communism must be
purblind if they can’t see it.
Accusations that we are building up
Japan for possible future aggression
against us are all very well, but our
immediate concern should be to build up
defences against actual aggression now.
Communists are in open conflict with
Western forces in Korea, Malaya and
Indo-China —with Australians in the two
first-named places —and their irruption
into Burma at any moment would not
surprise. In these circumstances it would
be criminal folly to throw Japan into
the arms of the Moscow-Peking brother-
hood. A rearmed Japan may be a
potential dangeran unarmed one is a
certain menace.
Air Beef, Ltd., the co. which is flying
out slaughtered beef from Glenroy, in
the Kimberleys, to the coast, is to get Id.
a pound subsidy from Canberra, and
this, with a W.A. Government subsidy,
will give it an extra £lO,OOO a year. That
sort of thing is more likely to encourage
development than setting up “planning
authorities” in Canberra.
After N. S. Wales Equity Court had re-
jected an application by left-wingers of
the Ironworkers’ Association for an order
restraining secretary Short from giving
effect to decisions of the association’s
conference dismissing them from office
Short commented: “Communists have
now been defeated in the High Court,
Arbitration Court and the Equity Court.
There are not too many more courts
which they can declare biased and dis-
honest.” The conference then carried a
resolution to break all ties with Moscow
and Peking and to cable U.N. in Paris
withdrawing the accreditation of Jessie
Street as representative of the union’s
“Labor News.”
Trouble between the A.W.U. and the
official “Labor,” which has been brewing
for some time, boiled over at the week-
end when the big union announced its
decision to withhold payment of A.L.P.
affiliation-fees. Reasons offered are
varied—disapproval of the selection of
last year’s Senate candidates by annual
conference instead of branch ballots,
disagreement with “Labor” leader Cain
over employment of A.W.U. men on
Government projects, and objection to
“Labor” support of the McDonald Gov-
ernment. Overriding all these is a grow-
ing divergence in the views of the
A.W.U. and A.L.P. on major questions
of policy.
Some months ago it was alleged by
A.L.P. industrial-groupers that Red Iron-
worker McPhillips had asked Communist-
controlled unions to send to Thornton,
former Ironworkers’ secretary, now a
representative in Peking of the Red
W.F.T.U., certain information about their
unions’ activities. At the Ironworkers’
conference last week Lawrence Short
read a letter signed by McPhillips and
addressed to Communist - controlled
unions asking them to send information,
including minutes of their meetings, to
Thornton by air-mail. He said that
Hughes, secretary of the Clerks’ Union,
had replied agreeing to do as requested.
Now the industrial-groupers in Hughes’s
union want to know why.
Herbert Groves, aborigine member of
the N.S.W. Aborigines Welfare Board,
doesn’t share Evatt minor’s belief that
aborigines should have an open go at
beer and plonk. He complains that the
new freedom has “caused serious crime-
murder, rape and assault” among his
people, and that “liquor has put good
types back in the gutter.” Still, in the
Evatt view, that’s better than being “dis-
criminated” against by white men’s laws.
Apparently Davis of the A.W.U. was
induced to utter his depression talk by
reason of his knowledge that the Utah
Construction Co., operating at Eildon,
Weir (Vic.) and renowned for paying
tremendous wages, had advertised for
men on general construction jobs. Out
of 1586 who paid their fares to the job,
“only 750 were taken on.” But this is no
more sign of a depression than the daily
rush to the Sydney lottery office.
Described as the Commo party’s “most
able industrial tactician,” A. Mac-
Donald, after being defeated in ballot for
secretary of the Ironworkers’ Associa-
tion in Queensland, was promptly
appointed acting-secretary of the Commo-
dominated Brisbane Trades and Labor
Council. Healy, secretary of the outfit,
is standing down through ill-health.


HOW IT ALL STARTED AT NEWCASTLE WATERS.


INTERNATIONAL HA R V ESTE R—BUI LD E R OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
i.
i teskSf f
saw j j
=* i
m^£A
Jlir
fcM/“v
-
* ■
J V
'vii
ir
-V ■:'
SI
Carriers of the nation's Cargoes
rapid growth of population and con-
tinued expansion of industry has brought
increased dependence on road transport for
reliable and efficient handling of goods on
Australia’s half-million miles of roads.
The flexibility of the motor truck has made
it one of the most important tools of
modern transportation. Whether for the
haulage of primary products for tranship-
ment by rail, sea or air, or for the delivery
of manufactured goods from producer to
consumer, the motor truck is the vital link
between all the transport services. Today,
even wider application of motor transport
with Australian agriculture, commerce and
industry, is essential to our national
development and security.
From the first International Auto Wagon
of 1909 to the handsome heavy-duty
engineered models of today. International
trucks have served the Australian trans-
port industry faithfully and economically.
Increased local manufacture brings the
assurance that International trucks will
make an even greater contribution to the
Commonwealth’s future transport needs.
International Harvester Company of
Australia Pty. Ltd.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
MIISIAHVH
IVNOIIVNUaiNI
IN
wmiurioNu
1-332-24
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Truck*
Defender Refrigerator*
International Industrial Power
Busiess, Rolleru, Etc.
The Outlook
There has been no sign, so far
in 1952, of any recovery in Aus-
tralian business activity. It still
remains to be seen whether this
drop in business will be
accompanied, at the other end
of the scale, by an increase in
essential industrial activity. In
other words, whether manpower
and materials made available
from that part of the economy
now subject to financial pres-
sure and “buyer-resistance” will
find its way automatically to the
industries which have the Gov-
ernment “all-clear” and which,
in any case, are still failing to
meet the demand for their out-
put. Coal, steel and steel pro-
ducts are cases in point.
Overseas-trade figures will be
watched with interest. Probably
the most obstructive influence in
business channels at the present
time are the large stocks of
imported merchandise in bonds,
warehouses and still in ships in
Australian ports. Since Decem-
ber 26 the fall in the Common-
wealth Bank’s holding of gold
and balances abroad has been
£31.6 million, making the total
drop since June 27 £320 million.
Trade figures to December 31
are not yet available, but to the
end of November the adverse
trade balance was £197 million,
and during that period London
funds dropped by something
like £240 million. The decline
of £BO million since in our
London balances is probably due
principally to further excesses
of imports over exports.
Most of these unusually high
exports are the consequence of
a speeding-up of deliveries from
Britain, and are partly the result
of slackening demand in other
world markets, partly the result
of improved shipping facilities.
But Australian importers are not
now ordering at the rate of
current imports. There has been
an almost general trend to seek
the cancellation of overseas
orders where possible. As the
months go by there is likely to be
a sharp contraction in our im-
ports. But meantime stocks
arriving in unprecedented volume
are having a depressing influence
on business conditions all over
the Commonwealth.
The unusual (and probably
non-recurring) nature of several
factors in our present trade
recession should not be over-
looked. Excessive stocks in
most cases can be gradually
worked down, but probably at
some loss of profit-margins. The
switch-over from one job to a
more essential one will be
effected in time. Domestic stock-
piles will drop, and replenish-
ment will be necessary. Hous-
ing is still scarce, and large
national works are required.
If war comes there will be an
extraordinary demand for all
our production. If that calamity
is avoided there is an enormous
amount of work to be done any-
way. But the immediate out-
look is one of continuing eco-
nomic readjustment, with many
of the people directly affected
confused and hesitant, and with
the rest holding back and wait-
ing the opportunity to buy what-
ever they need at a still-lower
price. The long-term view holds
out little hope of much fall in
the price of basic manufactures,
though there may be fleeting
opportunities for bargains.
Papuan Oil-search
“Lemon”: The December
progress report on the No. 2
test - well of Australasian
Petroleum at Hohoro records
that this bore has been
deepened 42ft., from 9940 ft. to
9982 ft. This might appear a.
very poor showing for a month s
work, even under Papuan con-
ditions, but the report adds that
“Well, tootle-oo. Thanks for the game.”
6fin. casing has been landed at
9973 ft., which is only 9ft. off
bottom.
This fine performance fully
deserved the comment of Aus-
tralasian Petroleum’s general
manager, Mr. A. Pym, that “a
story of effort and achievement
lies behind this bald statement.
Not only is this the greatest
depth to which casing has been
inserted in Australian territory
but it is also the first occasion
that the squeezing mudstones of
Papua have been conquered.
He might have added that his
co. also gained the previous
Australasian deep-casing record
when it set 6in. casing at 7864 ft.
in the Kariava well. Inci-
dentally, the work was done, in
both cases, by the same equip-
ment, which was transported
from Kariava to Hohoro.
Mr, Pym made reference to
some of the earlier failures to
penetrate the Papuan Mudstone
Series. These, and others, were
described in some detail in “The
Search for Oil in Papua” (B.
28/6/’5O), and a perusal of that
article will lead to an adequate
appreciation of the very im-
portant advance in drilling tech-
nique which has been made by
the A.P. Co. The last of the
pre-war failures occurred at
Oiapu in 1940 in a well located
on a comparatively unbroken
structure; but, in this case, it is
doubtful if the mudstone was
responsible, as the mud-condi-
tioning appears to have been
done carelessly, and an obsolete
and unsuitable thickening addi-
tive was used.
Even as late as 1950 the No.
1 Hohoro bore had to be
abandoned at a depth of 4721 ft.
(B. 18/4/’5l), and it required a
great deal of financial and moral
courage to hazard a further
attempt on this geologically-
broken and physically-difficult
structure. This courage has now
been rewarded, for, although
Hohoro has, as yet, produced no
commercial results, it is now in
good shape to drill several
thousand feet deeper, thus
allowing of the exploration and
testing of possible oil-bearing
strata below any beds yet pene-
trated in this area.
Drilling difficulties may arise
from several factors, of which
an important one is the nature
of the strata which have to be
penetrated. In Papua the oil-
belt mudstone is composed
largely of tuffaceous dust which
tends to form an unstable
material. The walls of any hole
drilled in such material are
prone to collapse unless the
correct preventive measures are
employed. This instability is
greatly increased where the beds
have been subjected to earth-
movements, a condition very
commonly met with in coastal
Papua. To make matters worse,
the unstable mudstone beds
often have a roof and floor of
stronger strata, such as sand-
stones or limestones, and have
thus been forced to flow in order
to allow the more “competent”
beds to adjust themselves to the
folding movements. Bend a
cream sandwich and you will
realise what has happened in
many a Papuan structure,
including Hohoro.
The stability of the “incom-
petent” mudstones is further
reduced where gas and salt-
water are trapped within them,
as these substances tend to force
themselves into any cavity (such
as a borehole), tearing down the
walls of the hole in the process
and reducing the efficiency of
the prepared drilling-mud in the
bore.
Preventive measures consist
essentially in using a drilling,
mud which will plaster and bind
the walls of the hole. To allow
of this the mud must be kept at
a greater pressure than the gas
and salt-water of the adjoining
strata, and this is accomplished
by “weighting” the mud with a
heavy substance such as barytes
(also known as “heavy spar”)
and, where the technique known
as “pressure-drilling” i s em-
ployed, by the application of
pressure, in addition to that
caused by gravity, at the casing-
head. Other chemicals are used
in the mud, where it is necessary
to keep its viscosity low enough
for pumping.
When open-hole drilling has
continued to what is considered
a safe depth the well is pro-
tected by running steel casing as
near to the bottom of the hole
as possible. This operation in
itself requires a high degree of
skill when working in heaving,
shale, as any disturbance of the
well-sides is liable to produce a
slide which will “freeze” the
casing and prevent further move-
ment.
In drilling Hohoro No. 2
down to nearly 10,000 ft. 3600
tons of barytes (mostly of Aus-
tralian origin) and other mud
chemicals were used ; 375 tons
of steel casing have been lowered
into the hole; and 1000 tons of
fuel have been consumed by the
rig engines. Some 45 whites and
300 natives have been employed
on the drilling-site. Except for
the supervisory staff and experts
brought from overseas to advise,
the drilling of the hole has been
undertaken entirely by Aus-
tralian drillers, and the mud-
control has been carried out by
Australian geologists and
engineers. An all-Australian
company. Oil Search, Ltd.,
holds a substantial interest in
the venture.
The on-site cost of the drilling
of Hohoro No. 2 well alone,
over a period of 10 months, has
been around £500,000, and there
is still more drilling to be done.
Maoriland Share Prices
Taking stock of their position,
Maoriland investors thank their
lucky stars that they’ve escaped
lightly in the share-slump, which
did nothing worse than give
them a knock here and there.
Most New Zealand cos. came
out of the test well, with their
scrip holding its ground. The
biggest setbacks were felt where
Australians held part of the
capital, as in Forest Products,
which has 55,000 shareholders
(about two-thirds of them Aus-
tralians), and Whakatane Board
Mills. Over the balance of the
market, apart from the drift in
N.Z.-held Australian securities,
the trend over the last half-
year was mainly a levelling-out,
with an occasional downward
tilt. Most of the loss to inves-
tors fell on holders of gilts.
There’s a disposition to inter-
pret this steadiness as a favor-
able augury for 1952, but, taking
their cue from latest moves by
John Bull, Maorilanders
shouldn’t be too sure. In a
swing on a big scale at the latter
end of an inflationary spree the
tendency is for gilts to sag first
as the money screw is tightened
up, but in the next step tne
strain is passed on. Cos. with
heavy overdrafts for stocks or
plant are rather exposed. There U
be a good deal of crowding m
the new-issues market to redress
the balance and also to finance
growth in trade and industry.
Holders will view prospects
according to their ability to taKe
up their quotas. If they’ve go
the cash they’ll have the beneti
of better terms offering ; if
haven’t they’ll have to part wit
rights at lower prices. f?
sellers who have had to go wit •
out div. - increases for Y 6?
while reserves have been bund-
ing up, it seems they’ve nuss
the tide,
However, looking nt
situation from the vantage-po
of Maorilanders who have b
waiting for a chance to g®
footing in sound industr
without paying fancy pri ’
things are coming their
There’s a lot of expansion an
in M.L.’s under-industriahseo
field.


CRONULLA'S
LEADING GUEST HOUSE
THE WESTELLA
Excellent Cuisine, Ballroom.
Licensed Restaurant.
13 5922
Under Entirely New Management.
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
*ND PERTH
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
tor yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C;
Assets Exceed £78,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£12,000,000.
M. 0. ALDER, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
Essential Service
Essential to trade development is a Banking
Service, both efficient and prepared to meet each
new opportunity.
Built on the resources and experience of two
Banks, each of which has contributed to Aus-
tralia’s growth for more than a century, A.N.Z.
Bank services are expressly designed to assist in
the promotion of trade.
Today, A.N.Z. Bank is preparing to meet the
needs of tomorrow.
A-N-Z
W
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA. Established 1835.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA. Est. 1837.
Over 700 branches and agencies throughout Aus-
tralia, and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world.
A complete instruction book on
ONLY RAINBOW GIVES YOU
ALL THESE FEATURES:
ƒ
flexible coupling
Worked on a ball and
socket principle, this
coupling provides a
positive, watertight
joint in any direction
better than 25°.
COMBINED OUTLET AND
HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordinary
outlet, but does the work of
hydrant as well! Simple to
operate, reduces obstruction
in both outlet and main.
f
STURDY ANGLE IRON STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24 ft. section. Absence
of crossbars in tall stands
eliminates interference to
vegetation.
POWERFUL SPRAY
HEADS
Throw a fine spray over
an area 48 ft. square, or
a heavy spray up to
72 ft. square.
60/83.12,
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
available to all
Rainbow Spray
Irrigation users
Here are all the answers to your
questions about irrigation! The
practical, versatile Rainbow Spray
Irrigation system can help you
make money, and this booklet tells
you bow to get the most from your
Rainbow Irrigation plant.
With the booklet you get a complete
picture of Rainbow Spray Irrigation.
The Rainbow Company has given the
various problems of irrigating very
careful study, and this book Is based
on the research of technical staff and
practical field experience. It tells you
how to plan an efficient and economi-
cal spray system, how to install it, how
to operate it, how to compute costs.
RAINBOW
SPRAY IRRIGATION
HEAD OFFICE: 83 Pitt Street, Sydney. 8U3425.
BRANCH OFFICES:
Griffith: 127 Banna Ay. Mr. C. R. Jones.
Oranee: 84 Byng St. Mr. J. Thatcher.
Musvvellhrook: 5 Bridge St. Mr N. Peacock
Gundag-ai; 230 Sheridan St. Mr. G. H. Burchell.
Victoria: 64 King St., Melb. Mr. C. Beaumont.
Mildura: 29 Deakin Av. Mr. C. Beaumont.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Sth. Aust.: Mr. R. Curry, 24 Light Sq., Adelaide.
Sth. Brisbane; Messrs. Waugh & Josephson
Ltd., 102 Melbourne St.
West Aust.: Mr. P. C. Korwill, 68 Hobbs Av.,
Nedlands, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND AGENT;
Freshfields, Ltd., IIS Lambton Quay, Wellington.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
It is encouraging to notice the
feeling of confidence that has
come in with the New Year.
One reason seems to depend
upon the widely-held view that
1952 will be a year of destiny
for the Western Powers, the
argument running that by the
middle of the year their defences
will be sufficiently formidable to
deter Soviet Russia from going
to war. Confidence also springs
from the sense of urgency with
which the Government is
tackling its formidable knot of
problems. For example, the
Churchill-Eden trip to Washing-
ton can be seen primarily as a
move—and a strong one—
towards world peace. The meet-
ing of the Commonwealth
Finance Ministers, although no
innovation, is also considered to
be timely.
The most that can be hoped
for is a year of check, princi-
pally to Russian imperialism
and to adverse trade-balances.
But what of checks to a trouble
much nearer home —inflation? 1
Here in England a side-glance
at the present condition of the
nation is anything but gratify-
ing. The turn of the year has
seen banks, insurance companies
and other financial houses rather
anxiously preoccupied over their
annual returns because of the
fall in the value of gilt-edged
securities. The City puts on a
glum face and complains not
that times are so little better but
that, in fact, they are worse.
There is considerable under-
employment and short-time in
some staple trades, notably tex-
tiles and furniture. Steel is so
scarce that its shortage amounts
almost to famine. Controls
have been increased, not re-
duced, since the new Govern-
ment took over, and commerce
is further handicapped by credit-
restriction more stringent than
has ever been known.
Although these measures may
be intended to halt inflation
their effect is virtually secondary
to other forces, opposing and
wellnigh out of hand. Wage-
increases, particularly in
nationalised industries, have be-
come a textbook demonstration
of the twirling spiral. A topical
instance is household coal, the
price of which has risen at the
pit-head by ss, per ton, chiefly
because of recent wage-
increases. By the time it reaches
the consumer the extra ss. has
become nearly 10s., because rail-
way-freights are 10 p.c. higher
(wage-claims plus costlier coal).
Monthly return-fares on the rail-
way have just gone up 10 p.c.,
preparatory to an expected 20
p.c. increase in single fares. One
may be sure that wage-claims to
meet these increases are in
course of preparation.
The Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer is believed to have
stringent remedies to put before
Parliament at the end of
January. They will need to be
no less than drastic.
Political Patches
It is no secret that both Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Eden would
look very kindly upon the pros-
pect of a coalition. So indeed
would most of the country. As
well as uniting the nation in its
common purpose, an all-party
coalition would also simplify
economy- and disinflationary-
measures at present liable to
incite party feeling. But to talk
of coalition is only to waste
words. The Labor party won’t
have if. .
In his stipulation Mr.
Churchill has done the next-best
thing: he asks for a longish
period—at least three years—
over which to be judged, and,
meanwhile, calls for an absence
of electioneering tactics. Both
well-wishers and patriots will
wish his first condition to be
fulfilled, but they can hardly, in
realism, have much confidence
that the other will be. Although,
so far, the House of Commons
has been fairly quiet, other
voices have not. Labor tactics
still seem to depend upon dis-
crediting the other man, calling
up bogies from the past and
striving to invest the word
“Tory” with Mephistophelian
import.
The radio is a medium that
lends itself well to political
capital-making. Even more so
does the television-screen. Some
Socialist M.Ps. have mastered
its difficult technique and appear
to better photogenic advantage
than the Conservatives. But the
feature concerned, “In the
News,” would be better
described by the title “In the
Picture.”
Much has been written about
the purpose behind Mr.
Churchill’s visit to Washington,
but surely the “New Statesman
and Nation” deserves a special
prize for its ingenuous use of
the “smear” in painting a pic-
ture of the Prime Minister and
his colleagues embarking upon
a luxury spree. And what of
this editorial comment in the
“Daily Herald”: “If Mr.
Churchill is going to barter cuts
in British education, health-
services or food-subsidies for
U.S. concessions, his action will
be repudiated wholeheartedly by
the British people”? The “flesh-
creep” mechanism again. Per-
haps Uncle Sam might prove to
be even more sinister and make
other exacting demands —British
scalps, for instance.
New Britten Opera
With the single exception of
“The Rape of Lucretia,” Benja-
min Britten has made it his
established practice to choose
his themes from the backwaters
of literature. His latest work,
“Billy Budd,” has been faith-
fully adapted by E. M. Forster
and Eric Crozier from the little-
known Herman Melville tale of
harshness and terror aboard
H.M.S. Indomitable during the
Napoleonic Wars , and after the
mutiny at the Nore.
If Captain “Starry” Vere,
R.N., is the very soul of good-
ness his young foretopman,
Billy Budd, is even better:
transparent, ever-cheerful and,
as they say, “all for it,” he has
but one blemish a bad
stammer when excited. “Jemmy-
legs” Claggart, the Jaunty, by
contrast is the unrelieved em-
bodiment of evil, and has a
“down” on Billy solely because
he is so good, Claggart plots
against Billy, who he hopes will
fall for the bait, mutiny. This
trick fails, so, although inter-
rupted by an inconvenient battle,
Claggart approaches Vere and
persists in accusing Billy of con-
spiracy to mutiny. When con-
fronted Billy’s stammer takes
control. He loses his temper,
strikes the Jaunty and kills him.
Vere, who has guessed the
nefarious scheme, sympathises
with Billy, but is bound by his
duty to hold a court-martial.
And Billy is sentenced to be
hanged at the yardarm.
A secondary conflict, perhaps
stronger even than that between
good and evil, is thus aroused:
that of a fair, humane man and
the immutability of King’s Regs,
The librettists meet this problem
by means of a prologue and
epilogue in which Vere, an old
man, shows that he has this
tragic incident on his conscience
and is consoled only by the
approach of death, which, as
with Billy, appears as the vision
of “the far-shining sail that’s
not f ate -” Four acts are taken
t 0 expound the story, which is
succinctly told, gripping and
easy to follow, John P.per s set
a " d eostumes add majesty and
color to the scene, and an all-
male cast is splendidly produced
by Basil Coleman,
The rest is Britten, whose
music for this opera has received
as much tooth-comb attention as
Beethoven’s note-books. At
first hearing the score sounds
no more than atmospheric,
with a hurt of Debussy-like
(Continued on page 19.)


Society
“X.S.”: An Elsternwick (Vic.) man
claims he has Ned Kelly’s skull, which
he says was dug up by a steam-shovel on
April 12, 1929, when contractors were
excavating on the site of the Old Mel-
bourne jail for extensions to the Techni-
cal College, and that there was a stone
marked “E.K.” on the same spot. All
quite true: but I am afraid he’s in for
a disillusionment. As far as I know I
was the only journalist present at that
choice scene of desecration when news-
paper-boys and tech, students were
grabbing thigh-bones and other relics of
the 22 murderers who had been buried
in lime, which was supposed to destroy
them but actually preserved them, and
trying to sell them to onlookers. Hie
foreman told me he had Ned’s headpiece
in his cabin. “What are you going to
do with it?” I asked. “I’m going to hang
on to it,” he said. “It’ll be worth a lot
of money.” “But it doesn’t belong to
you,” I said. “After all, even hanged
murderers have some rights. And, any-
how, how do you know it is Ned Kelly?
There are two ‘E.Ks.’ carved on the
walls, so there must’ve been two
murderers with those initials,” After
the weekend, when the Chief Secretary
“Looks like well be stuck here for a while
returned to his office, there was a terrific
shindy, and to the surprise of every-
body Kate Kelly, who was living
in a Melbourne suburb, came to light
with a dignified protest against this mal-
treatment of her brother’s remains. The
authorities made hasty restitution, and as
many of the bones as could be located
were collected and given Christian burial,
The history of the present relic is that
the man who found it sent it to Canberra,
where it was examined by Sir Colin Mac-
Kenzie, of the Anatomy Institute, who
said it was one of the finest skulls he
had ever seen, and a plaster-cast was
taken which is now in the Canberra
Museum. The skull was then returned
to Pentridge, according to the otncun
story, and interred with the rest of Med s
body; but the Elsternwick man says the
finder got it back and he got it from him.
But still to be accounted for are the two
“E.Ks.”
» * * *
“Cauboy”: A puff par. in the Mel-
bourne dailies announcing that a pretty,
brown-eyed descendant of notorious
highwayman Dick Turpin” had arrived
in Melbourne to play lead in the Aus-
tralian premiere of “Kiss Me Kate
moved me to consult my small English
encyclopaedia. There I read that the cele-
brated Richard was born in Essex in
1706, the son of an innkeeper, that he
joined a gang of robbers, led them to
plunder farms and rob travellers, shot
one of his companions accidentally and
was hanged for horse-stealing in 1739.
I was then moved to see if Edward Kelly
gets a mention in the tome. He does—
the only eminent Australian in the
volume. I read that, familiarly known as
Ned Kelly, he was the eldest of three sons
of an ex-convict, was charged with horse-
stealing, took to the hills and inaugurated
a reign of terror, varying his thefts with
the raiding and burning of banks and
Government property, and was finally
hanged for murder, living three years
longer than his English model. I am now
wondering when a pretty, brown-eyed
descendant of Ned Kelly will descend on
London to play lead, etc.
♦ * * *
“Fairf”: Weeks have passed since the
unfortunate experience, but the expres-
sion of shocked, shattered innocence on
the girl’s sweet little face still haunts me.
Of course, I should have known better
than to slip into my hostess’s bedroom,
switch on the light and begin disrobings—
without first looking to see if the bed
was occupied! I should have known, too,
that several of the revellers at that
Christmas party had been unable to stay
the distance and had been unobtrusively
ushered out of the throng. But I didn’t
think of such things. The first awful
inkling I had that a pair of unbelieving
eyes were staring at my unveilings came
with a horrified gasp from the direction
of the bed. For a moment I stood gaping,
then snatched up the garments I had
removed and bolted for the door. It was
too late; even as I fled I heard the
shocked voice denouncing me by name.
Moral; If you are silly enough to let
yourself be talked into donning a Santa
Claus outfit for a. Christmas-tree party,
find out where all the tired kids are
parked before you start removing your
hood, scarlet cloak and cotton-wool
whiskers.
* * * *
“C.R.”: That prolific writer Hesketh
Hubbard, president of the Royal Society
of British Artists, in his Hundred Years
of British Painting, just out, has this to
say about the 1923 exhibition in London
by Australian artists:
j t was “respectable, but not dis-
tinguished,” though the word “respectable”
was hardly applicable to
drawings of Lionel Lindsay, befo
long queues slowly shuffled.
Lionel's drawings salacious? Wou
Hubbard be referring to his Spanish
houses or his Spanish donkeys?
jfs ;K *
“Macnell”: What with Captain Stay-
put staying-put in world headlines, and
the Old Man claiming victims from me
Atlantic to the Pacific, the long struggle
to raise submarine Affray has dropped
from notice. The other day the
Admiralty announced that there is no
further hope of raising her; salvage
operations have ended. Rescue-ship Re-
claim (after Affray was located in 288tt.
by asdic and underwater television) had
“I’ve got something big this time!”
labored on every possible occasion to get
further evidence of the cause of the
disaster, without success. It is thought
that a major battery explosion could have
started a shock-wave in the submarine’s
hull, and that this ruptured the pressure-
trunking which lies amidships under the
casing, outside the pressure hull. Such an
explosion could have cracked the snort-
tube (Schnorkel device), which might then
have been snapped off as she hit bottom.
Whatever the cause, it is considered
certain that no attempt at escape was
made and that the end came swiftly. So
Affray will lie for ever in her tide-swept
grave, a mute reminder that, radar, gun-
nery and all the scientific advances not-
withstanding, seamanship still remains the
prime concern of a fighting fleet.
* * * *
A newer version of the belief
that “there’s one law for the rich and
another for the poor’’ appeared in our
suburb the other morning. At a bus-stop
a horse and cart stood, the horse tethered
to the bus-stop post by a halter. In
N.S.W. it is an offence to stand or park
a motor-vehicle within 40 feet of a bus-
stop ; evidently the cart-driver considers
that that particular law is only for those
wealthy enough to run motor-vehicles*
* * * *
“V, Cluse”: A Sydney daily became
very excited when it learned that a
Vaucluse man had killed a 2ft, snake in
his garden, and it declared that there was
a legend—lso years old, be jabers—that
because Henry Brown-Hayes had had soil
brought from Ireland and placed round
what subsequently became Vaucluse
House all snakes in the vicinity had
promptly cleared out to Penrith or
Petersham or Pokataroo or somewhere
and nary a one had been seen since. This
alleged legend accuses the old Irisher,
who was transported for abducting a
girl or some such divilment, of having
the soil brought to keep snakes away,
though I’ve believed for years that it was
because he wanted to grow shamrocks.
Anyhow, the paper supported the yam
with a statement that local residents
couldn’t recall having heard of a snake
in the district before. They must be
singularly unobservant. There’s a patch
or two of wild country at the head of
Parsley Bay gorge, above Vaucluse
House itself and along the eastern edge
of Neilsen Park where snakes, frillies and
blue-tongues, rabbits, bull-ants and even
native cats live. All now cut off by con-
crete roads and crowded suburbs from
escape by land to less populated parts,
they continue to breed, hunt and die in
there. Most of the small boys of the
vicinity could have told the reporter this.
It turned out that the snake which created
all the fuss was the property of a small
boy, who’d been keeping it as a pet under
the house. Quizzed as to where he got
the thing he muttered something about
somebody giving it to him. His mother
says she intends to make a veterinary
scientist of him, though what the deuce
that has to do with snakes beats me.
♦ * * *
“Sixenate”: Showing an unexpected
recognition of human weaknesses, the
law does not accept as evidence a man’s
loose boasts about the murders he has
committed. That is fortunate ; there are
an extraordinary number of such
braggarts. A case which stirred more
than the usual number into action was
the death of a public pest whose body,
complete with bullet-wounds, was found
in Centennial Park (Sydney). He was a
“foxer” who levied blackmail on spooning
couples when he could, and a completely
bad lot; and the general opinion was that
the police, regarding his exit as a good
riddance, made no effort to find his
destroyer. At -the time the incident was
in the public mind it was difficult to enter
any hotel in the Eastern Suburbs with-
out hearing some drunk hinting darkly
or bragging openly that he was respon-
sible for the ending of “that yeller dingo.”
Years later one of the local “demons” of
the time told me that five wives had told
the police that their hubbies had boasted
about being “the man who did that bloke
in.” What is most likely is that the man
who really fired the shots was a sober
chap who kept his deed profoundly to
himself.
* • * *
“C.BA Ballarat businessman, E. 0.
Doepel, steps into the shoes of E. I. Ban-
field by the purchase of a North Queens-
land island famous the world over.
When the journalist who had been given
a few months to live published Confes-
sions of a Beachcomber, the romantic
story of his struggles with Dunk Island,
he gave hope to thousands who wanted
to do the same thing and he was bom-
barded with letters asking to be allowed
to share his domain. Some of the writers
came half around the earth to do it;
others bought their own islands when
the Government would let them, un-
fortunately, they weren’t a bit like Ban-
field, and most of them failed or became
real beachcombers. Hugo Brassey, a
grandson of the picturesque Lord Brassey
who was Governor of Victoria, bought
the island after the demise of its founder.
He turned its solitude into a resort tor
tourists. The latest “beachcomber is
flying north to start his sojourn on the
600-acre island.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Commenting on a remark
painter Sali Herman mad© to an Adul
Education school that slums should be
painted because they were part of the
Australian scene, a Melbourne shimmer
said that painting pictures of slums on y
encouraged slum-dwellers to pity them-
selves. So it might if they ever saw them,
but that has nothing to do with t
artistic question. Turner painted Londo
slums, and it isn’t to be supposed that
liked them, as slums, or had less soci
feeling than any other person ; but as a
artist he divested himself or h
associationally-determined feelings of pi >
or compassion and made beautiful P*
tures of them. Similarly, some of n
finest drawings derived inspiration tro
brothels. After his death Ruskm
covered the drawings, and there was
little of the artist in him that he
his associations to have sway and, m o
to preserve Turner’s reputation
respectability, he burned hundreds o
best sketches.
DRESS OPTIONAL.
“Formal dress will not be compulsory for Aus-
tralians who attend official functions during the
visit of Princess Elizabeth and the Duke of Edin-
burgh.’'
Come, all who desire to show loyalty,
Plain Poppa or Mom,
If your clothes are not suited to Royalty
Don’t linger at home;
The richest sartorial touches
Of others won’t matter as much as
The thought, to the Duke and the Duchess:
“The Smiths haven’t come!”
True, Mrs. Kafoops of Killara
Will appear in a beaut
Pearl choker, and diamond tiara,
Among other loot;
But you can be daring and reckless;
They’ll say, “She’s enchanting; she’s feckless
In her little boy’s bottletop necklace —
How clever! How cute!”
There’ll be women in silks and in satins
Drawn inwards with bone
At the waist, and then pushed out with battens —
But you needn’t moan;
Where Parisian modes are obtrusive
Their value is largely illusive,
And a gingham house-frock is exclusive —
You’ll be put on your own!
The men will be tailed, with white weskits,
Or festooned with braid,
With Orders or gongs round their briskets, .
But don’t be afraid—
If most of the folk to be met there
Show signs of their struggle to get there
You may prove most elegant, yet, there,
However arrayed,
n.s.W. It -
SWILLIAM.


“Bo”: One Captain William P.
Knowles, of Hampstead (Eng.), who
advocates longer and deeper breathing
to eliminate catarrh, instances the
Italians. “Their language,” he says,
“makes them use the nasal cavities
properly and produces the world’s finest
singers. Hardly any Italians have
catarrh.” The reason the Italians pro-
duce some of the best singers is twofold:
First, because they, like Australians (who
also have splendid voices), enjoy a climate
in which the vocal chords thrive ; second,
because the Italianate method of voice-
production, the bel canto style, which
emphasises beauty of tone, perfection of
legato, freedom of production and
facility in ornamental passages, has never
been surpassed. I have always been
under the impression that catarrh and
its associated conditions had a profound
effect upon snoring. If that is so, Captain
Knowles’s theory about their cavities and
catarrh prangs badly; the ability of
Italians, especially southern Italians, to
modulate from one key to another over
three octaves in fortissimo snoring re-
mains the eighth wonder of the world.
♦ * ♦ •
“Mac Hoots”: I have a friend who
believes that 11 is her lucky number ;
and indeed a surprising number of
horses carrying that number come home
in the last race at Randwick to save her
from disaster. She took a lottery-ticket
numbered in some multiple of 11 and set
out to hypnotise whatever mathematical
bogies control the lottery by “concentrat-
ing” on the number and saying “Eleven,
eleven, eleven,” over and over again;
intending to say it 1100 times before the
drawing of the lottery. So “Eleven,
eleven, eleven,” she went on saying;
“eleven, eleven, eleven” —and when the
lottery was drawn her ticket was just 11
off a fiver.
“Noll”: Unk White’s sketch (B.
19/12/’5l) of a sailor taking a lass
aboard in his kit-bag recalls an incident
in Norfolk Island’s early history. Mary
Cinders, a married convict woman, was
a notorious favorite of the soldiers, to
whom she responded liberally, and
usually led the “dances of the mermaids”
the Thursday-night dancing in the
barracks, where the clothing shortage was
rather acute. When, in December, 1805,
the Sydney came to the island to transfer
some of the convicts to Van Diemen’s
Land, Mary was smuggled aboard as a
sack of cabbages, and got away despite
a thorough search. “General” Holt, a
leader of the Irish rebels of the 1798
uprising, who had been held on the
island for about two years, was one of
those being transferred, and everything
points to his having been interested in
this particular consignment of vegetables.
He was always one who knew his onions.
* ♦ * *
“Clooter”: I dare say that, with the
possible exception of the U.S.A., no
other country in the world offers a wider
variety of climate, landscape and in-
dustry than this one. Yet the head of a
travel-service, announcing that he is
sending a man to America, Canada and
England, armed with lecture-notes and
"With this wall-to-wall job you'll be able to take ALL your wives."
sound-films, to whip up interest in
“package tours” of Australia, says that
one tour of 27 days will “include visits
to Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Hobart
and Adelaide.” A little further on we
learn that another tour of 34 days will
include “visits to Auckland, North
Island centres and Sydney, Canberra,
Melbourne, Hobart and Adelaide.” I
wish both the service and its travelling
salesman every success and urge over-
seas people to consider a “package tour.”
Whatever discomfort they may endure
will surely be compensated for by the re-
markable achievement of having seen
“Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Hobart
and Adelaide.”
* * * *
“Ceg”: The Melbourne classified tele-
phone-directory lists two wigmakers, one
of whom specialises in “toupees for
gentlemen and postiche of every descrip-
tion.” It would seem, therefore, that wigs
are still worn. The only one I was ever
able to detect did not call for any Sher-
lock Holmes qualifications; it was worn
by an irascible civil servant whose duties
brought him into contact with citizens
who thought they had grievances against
the Government. When he started work
in the morning his wig would be in per-
feet position and quite undetectable, but
as the day wore on and tempers became
a bit frayed he had a habit of violently
scratching his head, with the result that
by 3 p.m. the parting of the wig would
“Would you mind giving a message to that car ahead? Say
Myrtle is sorry."
be running athwart-ship, instead of fore-
and-aft. He didn’t seem to worry about it,
and I always expected him to take the
wig off and dance on it, but regretfully
I must admit he never did. I remember
also seeing once in a crowded railway-
carriage a lady suddenly tear off a wig
and toss it into the hat-rack, much to the
consternation of her fellow-passengeis.
She explained that she had recently re-
covered from typhoid fever and her head
had been shaved. The day was a scorcher
and she preferred to be cool and com-
fortable, but for the rest of the journey
we couldn’t keep our eyes off her.
♦ * * *
“Sackfair”: In my daily dash for the
morning train I used to have two unfail-
ing timepieces. The tall fellow who
turned out of a side-street on one foot
was absolute zero —anyone 20 paces be-
hind him missed the train. With about
100 yards to go he invariably connected
with a little nuggety chap who, obviously
because he lived so close to the station,
was always late. Generally fiat-out a few
paces behind I was an unintentional
eavesdropper to the panting, jerky con-
versations the hurrying pair seemed to
enjoy. Every Monday Lofty had the
same grievance: “That neighbor of mine
mowed the grass on his footpath again
yesterday. Got an electric-mower, but
do you think the miserable coot would go
an inch beyond his corner-post? Fair
dinkum, he parts the grass so’s he won’t
do a blade on my side. I’ll finish up
tellin’ him off.” One Monday a note of
hope crept into the conversation—the
neighbor had moved and the new fellow
was a “decent bloke.” The weekly report
became: “He’ll mow a bit past the post
—not like that other lousy hound.” My
routine changed for some months. Last
Monday I was back—to hear: “That
mug had the ruddy hide to mow half-
way to my gate yesterday; if he thinks
he’s goin’ to shame me into doing the
rest”-
“A.E*S.”: As “Kal” says (B.
26/12/’5l), one gets used to the radio-
play convention of a brief musical inter-
lude indicating the passing of time. I
wish all radio effects were as pleasantly
unobtrusive. The effect that makes me
tear my hair more than any other is that
used to show that the scene is garden or
bush—the maddening “tweet-tweet-tweet”
from a bird that apparently haunts all
gardens and all bushland, be it in Sydney
or Vienna, Port Davey or the Territory:
a bird I’ve neither heard nor seen, though
IVe watched and listened to hundreds of
birds for many years and m every State.
* * * *
“King’s Pawn”: Philatelists have been
given another “must-have” by the issue
in Cuba of a set of stamps to com-
memorate the 30th anniversary of the
winning of the World’s Chess Champion-
ship by Jose Raoul Capablanca in 1921.
Capa was —and remains—Cuba’s proudest
product. After he had been hailed as a
boy chess prodigy there was no difficulty
in raising the money to induce the
American star, Marshall, to play him in
Havana, During that contest, in which
the youngster showed that he was indeed
a star of great magnitude, crowds of folk
who knew nothing of chess hung around
the hall of play. Later there was again
no difficulty in providing funds for
Capa’s invasion of Europe, where, besides
other brilliant successes, he defeated
Emanuel Lasker in a challenge for the
World’s Championship, four games to
nil; another 10 games were drawn. Cuba
appointed the champion to its diplomatic
service, maybe as an excuse for being
abroad on a salary. Anyway, no better
Ambassador could be imagined in
countries where chess has an honored
place. Capablanca’s record is
extraordinary; he lost only one game
between the years 1916-1925. Good as
he was, Capablanca was lucky to have
been born in Cuba instead of in Aus-
tralia, where, in spite of the splendid
showing of its players, there is virtually
no public encouragement of the game.
it * * *
“Aestur”: “Doric’s” inclusion of “seat-
kicker” in his list of movie-audience
aversions (B. 26/12/’5l) brought it to
mind. Although I barely touch five-and-
a-half feet, the rows of seats were so
close-spaced that my knees made twin
dents in the back of the seat ahead.
After about five minutes of the screen’s
most stupendous spectacle, the bloke in
front, apparently not as yet carried away
by the face that makes men madmen,
turned his head 180 degrees and snarled
“Take y’r feet out of my back.” I ex-
plained politely that they were not my
feet, but my knees. “Oh, sorry ; thought
they was y’r feet.” I’ve often wondered
if the knowledge made him feel more
comfortable.
* * * *
“Eve”: Bottle-oh’s cart was parked in
the lane ; the rusty-brown dog was in the
middle of the lane, about 10 yards in
front of the horse. Bottle-oh explained:
“I’ve got him trained to watch the horse
instead of the cart; there’s not much the
blokes can pinch off the cart, but if the
horse plays up, I soon know about it;
the dog barks
like mad. You
get better work
out of a horse if
you’ve got a good
dog to watch it. ’
I repeated this to
a friend who told
me of his dog
which used to
watch his fruit-
cart. “It was a
dog with a
memory for faces,” he said. “But it had
the sense to know that, if it was on the
cart, shady characters wouldn’t dare go
near. He used to sit about 20 yards
away, half-hidden by a post or a dust-
bin, Crooked coves would think the cart
unguarded, and they’d approach it in
that special way such chaps seem to
have; then up would jump my dog, all
teeth showing—and such a grin of
satisfaction all over him that you’d have
sworn he enjoyed tricking the cove even
more than biting him.”
« * # *
“Pat”: Applauded accomplishments of
the female are taking strange new turns
every day. On the bus a five-year-old
lad asked the conductress the where-
abouts of her whistle. “Oh, I don’t need
one. I whistle better by myself,” she
told him. The boy pressed for proof,
and, accordingly, she gave it —a shrill,
loud blast at the next stopping-place. All
the kids on the bus became intrigued and
the lass, obviously gratified by the success
of her performance, continued to oblige.
Threequarters of the way to the city a
weary parent told her offspring his con-
tinual “Again. Do it again!” must stop.
“Will you do it for me at home,
he demanded. “No. I can t whistle.
“Gosh,” he opined disgustedly. You
can never do any of the portant things.
* * * *
“Melb’n”: Melbourne “Argus” reports
that Victorian roads are safer-only• 121
more people killed in 1951 than m 1950,
but as there were 182,000 more lethal
weapons careering along the highways the
ratio of deaths to registered vehicles was
only 12.4 per cent, as against 13.2 per
cent. This is something for Victorians
to congratulate themselves on. It is
obvious that pedestrians have become
more spry, as there is no evidence that
the drivers have become more careful.
Look at any pub just before six o clock.
Every one of the drivers of the vehicles
assembled, from 10-ton trailers to sports-
cars, has had, according to scientific
opinion, enough liquor to affect his
driving—but none of them walks home.
THE PRODIGY.
-nrvh-! should remember that a baby as young
understands a great deal of what is
as six.montnß and being . sa id about bun.
going SLirfn’t sneak about him in his presence.”
Tbe y shouldn t speaK Margaret Robinson.
fa ii into the old and simple trap
D Of tSnking that, because the baby nibbles
at? toes ■ or stares at you with open-gap
H Blows ’ bubbles from his mouth, and freely
dribbles, ,
nr with his finger m some mushy pap
° may have spilt, quite aimlessly he scribbles,
Hifis a tomb-dtck sort of attitude.
In point of fact he’s really very shrewd.
Within his hearing you may with some friend
Discuss the international situation,
rho dangers of the latest fiscal trend,
The measures you would take to curb infla-
<snbiects°you’d deem he’d never comprehend.
But vet—and this is no exaggeration—
His eager nod and firmly-stated “Goo!
indicate clearly he agrees with you.
When in the wee sma’ hours from out his cot
You pluck your infant, red and loudly yelling,
A half-hour later finding that you’ve got
No hope of his infuriation quelling,
Desist, I beg, from getting fiery hot
Beneath the collar, with your “hlanky-
helling”; , , , ,
The babe of nous, remember, has no lack.
He might sling all your choicest swear-words
back.
Never discuss his faults when he’s around.
(Don’t laugh this off and say it couldn t
You’d Surprised.) Your four-month-old is
bound
To soak this up, and think you merely flatter.
On your own weaknesses, it might be found,
He could possess a pretty line of patter.
So that your infant you must never goad,
See that you speak in whispers or in code.
You shouldn’t trust even the three-month-old.
A snappy yam to the wife’s younger brother
You may with too-unguarded tongue have told.
Next thing you know, the babe will try to
smother
His laugh. Worse still, the tale he may unfold
In toto to his horror-stricken mother.
You are aware, of course, what that would
mean;
Be careful, then, if you’d avoid a scene.
That any infant understands what goes
On round him you will note when friends
forgather
To wet his head; it’s then he quickly shows
How he can analyse the blah and blather:
When someone very fatuously blows
About his strong resemblance to his father
See baby shudder, looking at his Ma,
Repeating (so significantly) “Ga!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Edx”: Slogging it out with Australia
in hard, deceptive country out from
Meekatharra (W.A.), on starvation
rations, with his credit stretched to the
limit at the store, and the sight of a decent
color becoming a dimming memory, old
George was somewhere near the end of
/his tether, and badly in need of a spell.
He had never worked for a boss, and it
was with sour reluctance that he planted
most of his gear, hoisted his roll and
headed back towards civilisation and the
mine on which he’d decided to get a
temporary job to help himself over the
lean patch. Three days later the head-
frame, stack and tailings dump of the
mine jumped out of the shimmering haze
across the semi-desert, and George knew
he was making better time than he had
reckoned on. Getting closer, he could
make out the buildings, and by the time
he’d reached the mine he had identified
the mine offices. He went to the under-
ground-manager’s office and shyly hung
around the door until the u.g.m. came
out, told him he could start straight away
and to report to the day-shift boss over
on the mainbrace. He found the shift
boss, who told him they were going to
enlarge the main shaft, and to start dig-
ging. George downed his swag, and a
curious sense of unreality overcame him.
He began to dig, and the feeling grew
oppressively stronger. He looked up, and
nearly cried out in amazement as his
surroundings began to disappear in front
of his eyes —the headframe, the buildings,
the shift boss, everything, in a couple of
seconds dissolved into nothing, and
George found himself standing alone
again in the familiar silent bush. For a
moment he was paralysed; then, as
realisation came, he grinned sheepishly to
himself. Of course. He should have
known he was nowhere near the mine yet.
It must still be miles away. He looked
down at the broken stone at his feet,
saw at once he’d uncovered something
unusually good, and, with samples to show
“ Well , cant you read?”
when he reached town, had no trouble in
getting sufficient backing to turn his find
into quite a profitable little mine, which
he called the Lucky Mirage, after the
manner of its discovery,
* * * *
“E.”: The stranger in the corner of the
pub dining-room put down his fork to
make a hit at a mosquito, and became
instantly aware of old Ted’s scowl from
the next table. The mossie buzzed
louder, circled a few times, and made for
the window, where he settled on the fly-
screen. Like a shot Ted was out of his
chair. He opened the wire screen and
watched the insect fly out into the night.
The stranger stared, surprise changed
slowly to pity, then, with an almost im-
perceptible shake of his head, he returned
to his meal. Five minutes later another
mossie landed on his crown, and he made
a hasty swipe. “Look out there, look
out,” warned an urgent voice. “You 11
kill it” The stranger looked across into
Ted’s glaring eyes. “That sanctity-of-
life idea doesn’t extend to insects in my
religion,” he replied sourly. “It mightn’t,”
growled Ted, “but if y’ must brush them
things off, you do it sort of gentle, see?
We all got to live, you know. An’
nobody round these parts has ever done
nothin’ to you, have they? Never tried
t’ hinder you making a living, or noth-
ing?” “No,” parried the other, taking
Ted in uncertainly. “Of course not. But,
after all, it was only a mosquito. I don’t
want to hurt your feelings, but I’ve never
made any bones about killing a few
insects.” “No? Well, y’ll darn soon make
some round here,” Ted explained grimly,
“if y’ go swipin’ any of our myxomatosis-
spreaders.”
♦ * * *
“5.W.A.8,”: The butcher in the valley
occasionally sends up for a couple of
sheep when he runs short. The other
day he requested three, and the only
means of
transport was
an old single-
seater car. The
driver placed
one on the
floor, one on
the seat, and
held one on
his knee. The
chap whom he passed in a car on his
way down to the valley was heard to
remark in the pub later that this was a
queer sort of district —on the climb up
from the valley he’d “passed a sheep
driving a motor car!”
* * * $
“Gravelsnatcher”; Spent part of a
month’s holiday in the wheatbelt, and
I’ve come back with a renewed admira-
tion for bunny and a hope that
myxomatosis won’t be the success I’m
afraid it will be. I’ve always had a kindly
feeling for the little bloke that kept me
and many another bushwhacker going
during the depresh; but now I’ve got a
healthy respect for its guts. On three
occasions we had to dig out a ferret, and
each time it was held up by a doe which
had squatted and blocked the narrow
passage where her kittens lay. Those
does were eaten alive —or at least all their
heads were —yet they had refused to
budge. It takes guts to stand up to that
sort of treatment. As I said, it happened
three times. After that I wouldn’t have
anything to do with ferrets.
* * * #
“Mat’s Mate”; In Terowie (S.A.) we
ran into Barney Bogan, half-caste, dis-
qualified jockey, convicted dip, sideshow
spruiker and billiard-room hanger-on.
“I got a job,” he confided, with burning
injustice in his tone. “The p’lice made me
do it. Told me t’ get work or get
lumbered. Said they’d vag. me the first
time they see me standin’ still. Can’t
stand here talkin’ t’ you blokes,” And he
hurried down the avenue of gums that
led to the railway-station. Mat and I were
on the labor market, and a publican told
us to try the transhipping boss, Terowie
being a hreak-of-gauge station. “Yair,”
the boss said. ‘Til give y* a start. Go
down an’ tell the foreman I sent y.
That’s him, the little dark bloke near the
crane.” Yes, it was Barney. Y ? didn t
tell us y’ was runnin’ the joint, Mat
said. “Aw,” snorted Barney, “it s them
ruddy p’lice. Lot o’ stuff gets pinched on
this transhippin’, an’ when they tell me
t* get a job an’ I get one they go t me
boss an’ tell him t’ make me foreman.
Then if there’s anythin’ missm 1m me
goat. Can’t chuck the job, can’t pmch
anythin’—strike me blue, it’d give y the
willies. Well, s’pose I better get y
started. But mind, keep y’r fingers out
o’ things or I’ll go y’ scone-hot. 1 uon t
want them ruddy p’lice chasm me
round.” After we’d been at
it an hour or so Barney
came along. “Don’t y’ go
buyin’ no smokes,” he said.
“I can do y’ some at half-
price.” To our startled looks
he said “Aw, don’t be silly. I
pinched ’em at Port Adelaide
a fortnight before I come up
here. I wouldn’t pinch a
thing here. Y’re dead safe
buyin’ ’em.”
♦ * *
“8.A.K.”: Rachel Henning
surprised me with her refer-
ence to American Creek, just
out of Wollongong; 1 had
imagined the name to be of
much more recent date than
1875. However, although the
district in which she and Mr.
Taylor had their little farm
was almost certainly Fig
Tree, that name, apparently,
was not used in those days.
A tall fig-tree on an island in
Lake Illawarra was described,
but the tree which stands just
beyond the township of Fig
Tree and not far from
American Creek has not been
mentioned in The Letters.
Still, although a tall one, the
fig is not a giant as Moreton
Bays go—contrasted with
some of the veterans in Min-
namurra Gorge, less than 30
miles away, it is a mere
sapling. Then again, as it
was probably considerably
smaller 76 years ago, Rachel
Henning may have passed the
tree often and considered it
just another fairly big
Moreton Bay fig, not realising that it was
destined to be honored by having a
township named after it,
* * * *
“Ceg”: Another link with Victoria’s
old goldmining days has been cut with
the destruction by fire of the famous old
Star Hotel at Walhalla, in the mountains
of Gippsland, This old hostelry, which
was full of historical interest, was 80
years old and used to be the social centre
of the mining township. Built of pit-
sawn weatherboard, it stood in perfect
condition to the last. Once it was a
brewery as well, and its owner in those
days was Louis Loan, who won prizes at
the Paris Exhibition for his products.
That must have been the same exhibition
(1870) when stone from the
Mount Difficult quarries
in the Grampians also won
a prize. A photograph
taken in 1895, in Wal-
halla’s palmy days, shows
a coach with team of six
white horses setting off
from the Star Hotel to
cross the tortuous moun-
tain track. This track,
which resembled a Luna
Park switchback, called
for teams of 14 horses to
pull the goods-wagons.
Later Walhalla was con-
nected to the main Gipps-
land line at Moe by a
narrow-gauge railway, but
that has ceased running,
and the little township, which owed its
existence largely to the fabulous Long
Tunnel mine, has come to depend on
tourist traffic.
* • * «
“Riparian”: At one time the Swan
River (W.A.) housed millions of saucer-
sized oysters. So extensive are these dead
deposits that a local cement co. dredges
up thousands of tons as a component of
their product. Dead cockle-shells, too,
cover many river beaches. But never
a live oyster or cockle is to be
found. This despite the fact that
in more generous times thousands
of dozens of Sydney oysters were
kept in tide-water pens just up-river from
Fremantle. Many of these oysters must
have thrown out spat, but not one oyster
grew on the near-by piles of the two
Fremantle bridges. General opinion held
that the waters of the Swan estuary and
near-by seas were in some way hostile
to the mollusc. Yet there was, and had
always been, a small mussel in the Swan,
about the size of a sixpence. Other
estuaries along the W.A. south-west coast
show much the same. Then, about 15
years ago, the big edible mussel, such as
is found in plenty along the beaches of
Port Phillip Bay, began to appear. Few
at first, so that they were a luxury, to
be gathered gratefully, they were sold
bottled in vinegar at a price comparable
with that of oysters. But now the inva-
sion is in full swing. Millions of big
mussels crowd the Swan, covering every
pile, fastening on to every form of solid
along the shallows. Mussel parties now
replace the crabbing parties of formei
years. And the puzzle is: How came the
big mussel to arrive? On the weedy
hull of a ship, of course. But such hulls,
and of wooden ships, too, had been
arriving at Fremantle for the past
century—ships from Sydney, Melbourne,
Hobart, Adelaide —with never a sign of
the big mussel becoming acclimatised.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”; Jim had been tramping
round for several years, mostly unshaven,
mostly ragged, mostly broke and mostly
uncaring. Then he got a few quid out
of an emu-bobbing contract up by
Trangie (N.S.W.) and suddenly became
ambitious to be a well-dressed swagman.
He bought a black oilskin for the knot,
leather straps, new boots and a new hat.
After which he decided to be a flash
swagman, bought a bike and rode the
tracks on it. Presently he decided a
utility was better than a bike and got a
second-hand one. Having the space he
did a bit of hawking. He got tired of the
old ute and bought a smart motor-van
and hacked some more. The hawking
got big, so he bought another van and
put a man on. Then he rented an old
barn for a depot, but presently got tired
of it and rented a shop, which he presently
bought and had fitted with new windows
and so forth. Not long after that he had
four vans on the road. He added a
branch shop, then a wife, sundry children
and a new car to drive round in. He
kept the wife, car and kids, and sold the
rest. He put the money from the sale into
a block of seaside flats, lived in one ana
rented the others. That’s where he is
now. There’s not much point ui tni
story, except that it all started because
thought a black oilskin looked better
round a swag than a burry old rug.
“B. A. Ker”: Slip the safety-catch on
that shotgun for a sec., “Merv l ■
9/l/’52), and let’s have another look "
the target. “Nota Bene’s” boss missed
still bunny at 30yds., but hit a. skie ~ h
close at hand. My snap-shooting cob
ridiculously missed a squatting raß „ ut
head at the range of two spits. ~
whether your chances of longevity
be greater while zigzagging at iW '
or standing motionless at 10
comes into the case. After all, uni V ,
are writing from Wonderland, you v-
be a durn sight bigger than a b y
and even I could hit a target the
a man under either of those con
even though a brutal militia s er gf ani . a
once inform me that I couldnt
bullock’s rear with a frying-pan.
OUTBACK SUMMER.
Sunburnt paddocks:.
Grass of rust.
Long, dry roadway:,
Whorls of dust.
Drowsy cattle,
Creekbed sand;
Parching hotness :j
Sbadeless land.
Distant mountains.
Shimmer-hazy.
Stockmen squatting;
Horses lazy.
Summer’s oven
Opens, takes
Jhe outback in
And slowly bakes.
N.S.W.
LAN HEALY.


“Bo”: “Driest I ever bin,” said Jockey
Jack, “was at a meetin’ I rode in once at
Emerald, a bit up-country from Bris.
They’d had a long drought, an’ me first
mount I tail the field right to the last, an’
I muster swallered two gallons o’ dust
kicked up by the mokes I can’t catch.
The next race is little better. And after
it’s over I goes in to see the owner an’
trainer about the next race. I’m drier
than a wowser’s weddin’, an’ me tongue’s
hangin’ out longer than a greyhound’s in a
heat-wave, when I sights on the table a
glassful o’ beautiful colored stuff.
‘What’s it?’ I asks the trainer, jerkin’
me thumb towards it. He grins. ‘Just a
soft-drink,’ he says. So I up-ends it
down me throttle. As it hits the bottom
I can feel me head start to revolve, an’
me toes curl up. ‘Y’ ruddy ape!’ yelps
the trainer. ‘Y’ve swallowed the dope
for y’r horse!’ Yair, it was about fifty-
fifty brandy an’ whisky with a shot o’
strychnine in it.” “Did you make the
race?” I asked. “Make it!” said Jack.
“I’ll say I did. I carried the horse for
the first two furlongs to make certain
we’d have a handy lead ; then I mounted
him an’ came home in a canter!”
* * ♦ *
“Double-G”: “Why should a man
want to tie a cowbell to a sapling?” asks
“Edx” (B. 2/1/ ’52). Well, lots of things
have been hung and lost on saplings ;
bridles, for instance, by the hundred.
And W.A. bush history records a silver
watch. Back in the later ’nineties Jack
Perry, travelling the old stock-route from
Geraldton to Roebourne, came on a
tarnished silver watch dangling by its
chain to the limb of a mulga, not far
from what is known as Hooley’s Well.
Opened, the watch, a key-winder, showed
good preservation and when wound began
ticking merrily, though possibly it had
hung there for over 20 years. Back in
1874 Henry Clarkson and his brother
Willie set off from the vicinity of
Geraldton with 1000-head of cattle and
200 horses, bound for the De Grey River
in the north-west. At Elizabeth Springs,
*on the Upper Murchison River, the
Clarksons found the country ahead very
unpromising, almost waterless. Leaving
the stock in charge of their foreman,
Bill Bryan, they set off on a flying survey
to the Gascoyne River 90 miles to the
north. They never returned. Failing to
reach the Gascoyne they turned back.
While still 60 miles from their camp all
their horses, save Henry’s favorite mare,
Isobelle, had died. Leaving his brother
prostrate under a tree Henry started at
daybreak for Hooley’s Well. But with still
10 miles to go the mare knocked up com-
pletely. Tying her to a tree, and leaving
a note telling his brother how things
went, he pushed on on foot. He reached
the well, filled the waterbags and started
back. But six miles along he sat down a
moment to rest and fell asleep; and the
blacks who had been trailing him speared
mm as he lay. The tied-up mare they
also speared. Willie died of thirst. Three
months later their bodies were found by
a police-party out from Geraldton. The
watch found, on the tree near by may have
been left by some forgetful drover. More
likely it was Clarkson’s.
* * * *
“V.”: The way a fellow takes a fancy
°r otherwise to a dog has nothing on the
way a dog may adopt or reject him. Take
me pack Bill and Kingie borrowed while
the dogger was on holidays. The two
were digging out a rabbit-infested area,
and after collecting the pack they left
for work together as usual, then split up
on to different burrows on arrival. An
hour later they noticed the pack, too,
had split up, seven or eight dogs staying
with Bill, the remainder watching Kingie’s
operations. They were called together
several times during the day for a spot
of dogging, but always sorted themselves
again, each to squat around the bloke he
had adopted. All, that is, but one little
foxie that appeared to fancy neither.
After several weeks the pack are even
more strictly divided, each section refus-
ing to go with the other bloke until per-
suaded by a few well-directed clods. And
the foxie? X work in the next paddock.
and for some unknown reason it has
attached itself to me. I’ve chased it,
roared and pelted sticks, but half an hour
later it always comes back wagging its
stump and greeting me like a long-lost
uncle.
* * * *
“Blime”: Came on Dill grumbling
long and low, and paused to listen. “It’s
that new mong o’ mine,” he scowled.
“The one I got in town off Screwie
Trucker. The thing ain’t got the right
ideas nohow.” “Why? Won’t he follow
you?” “Toiler? Dunno about follerin’,”
Dill growled. “But ’e comes. If he
thinks I’m goin’ on the plough he dives
out an’ gets on the seat first. If I walk
towards the truck he’s two jumps ahead
t’ make sure he’s in; an’ if I lead out
the mare to drag logs, hang me if he
ain’t squattin’
on the swingle-
bar. Mechani-
cal - minded,
that’s what,”
Dill grumbled.
“Too flamin’
modern.
Gripes, a
bloke can’t
even go up to
the wood-’eap
without havin’
t’ shove the mong out o’ the barrer every
two seconds t’ put the wood in.” “Aw,
he’ll grow out of it,” I consoled. “Yair,
that’s what / thought,” agreed Dill, “but
listen t’ the cow, will y’? Chained ’im on
f that light kennel to leave ’im home an’
a coupla minutes later he’s draggin’ the
thing down the road after me. Wouldn t
’a’ mattered, only soon’s he looked round
an’ seen it movin’ he turned an’ jumped
on. Thought it’d save ’im walkin’, seein
it was goin’ in the right direction. An
now all that yappin’,” snorted Dill dis-
gustedly, “that’s callin’ me t’ come back
an’ fix ’is blasted breakdown.”
* * * *
“Betcha”; The lift of cockies during
the last few seasons from a starvation to
a happier realm has brought its healthy
crop of luxury-lovers from suburbia, who,
attracted by paper prices, wouldn t
mind giving this land job a go. Ive
been the victim of several. The latest
recruit, on a three-weeks-on-full-pay re-
cuperation visit, confided that he was pre-
pared to go so far as to mortgage his
city home for £3OO, so that, after finding
a bank or other company to finance ms
venture, he would have ample working
capital. Could I recommend a good pay-
ing property? To save embarrassment 1
promptly offered to teach the would-be
something of the working of a farm, and
though he considered it hardly necessary,
condescendingly agreed to come on a
rabbiting trip. Heaven knows the hack
I provided was quiet enough, but after
he’d managed to fall off the second time
he retired to a deck-chair and an after-
noon of feminine fussing. Next morning
he reached the rabbit area, was presented
with a mattock and shown the rudiments
of digging out. He couldn’t see the sense
of it. A bit later, running sweat prob-
ably for the first time in his life, his
enthusiasm for farm life had nearly
reached zero. It was then, out of a vast
generosity and prompted solely by a
desire to help, I offered to follow the
intricacies of rabbiting with lessons in
post-splitting, fencing, fern-slashing and
sheep-crutching, and went on to explain
the necessity of a dawn-to-dark day in
successful farming. But the bloke had
had it. An hour later he was back in
his deck-chair, fully decided to leave such
a mug’s game to the mugs.
* * * *
“Mr. O’Roo”: With due respect to Ted
Scorfield (B. 12/12/’5l) we do play darts
with the bow and arrow out our way.
Dartboard is three times as big, but our
archer-cw/n-darter stands back four times
the standard distance. So far there is
no record of a contest in a bar, though
several have been shot off in various halls,
with honors to the archers on each
occasion. The arrow is not gripped
between finger and thumb ; rather are the
fingers hooked round after the manner of
a fowl perching, the archer being careful
not to touch the arrow at all. He of the
low-slung quiver is holding the bow as a
right-hander would, having fitted his
arrow as for a southpaw. Very, very
difficult to shoot accurately that way.
Which leads me to the time our club put
on a demonstration at a charity
gymkhana to show how easy it can be
done, then sold shots to the public at
five a bob, no prizes, but sweepstakes
allowed. After the kids had exhausted
their funds the grown-ups started in. All
the usual beginner’s mistakes were made
by one old-timer with the customary facial
contortions, which twisted his cherry-
wood pipe round till it was hooked over
the bowstring. When he released that
401 b. bow the pipe flew truly as aimed
into the goal and set the target smoulder-
ing, and the shooter’s dentures sailed
clear of the stall to ricochet from the
corner-post into a boozer’s pot just as he
raised it up for a long, slow, luxurious
swallow. .
* * * *
“Emjai”: The raw colt was temporarily
parked in the end section of the shed,
with a single breast-high bar across the
open front. When the engine and chatt-
cutter started up alongside he snorted
and did a tentative step-dance, quietened
for a moment while he summed up the
menace, then started to prance again,
plunged frantically around the enclosure,
bashed the wall, and finally took the bar.
But he topped the jump and crashed over,
twisted as he fell, rolled under and
scrambled up, still on the inside. He
stood a moment in baffled amazement,
looked at the bar, cocked an ear at the
chaffcutter, said “Huh!” or the equiva-
lent, and mooched quietly to the feed-box
in the corner.
* * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The new ship on the
nor’-Westralian run, the Kabbarli, is
unique in two ways. She is the first
passenger-carrying ocean-going vessel to
be built in Australia, and she is twin-
engined, with only one screw. The two
engines are magnetically coupled to the
single screw, and while this system of
coupling isn’t new overseas, it is on the
Australian coast. The Kabbarli is rated
at 12 knots, which doesn’t make her by
any means the fastest boat to have been
on that run. That title probably belongs
to the Western Australia, Prior to being
bought by the W.A. Government she
was used as a blockade-runner during the
siege of Port Arthur in the Russo-
Japanese War. Her speed of 25 knots
was better than most of the Jap warships,
and she emerged practically the only ship
to run the blockade successfully. During
World War I she was sold to the British
Government, and was used as a hospital-
ship in the English Channel. She was
later replaced on the run by the Prince
Sigismund, a German boat which was
rechristened the Bambra. Other boats on
the run have been the Koolinda, which
broke its back on a sandbar in the creek
at Port Hedland; the Kwinana, whose
bones still lie on the beach a few miles
south of Fremantle ; the original Manilya,
which was sold to the Chinese; and the
Koombanah, which disappeared with all
hands in a cyclone in 1912.
* * * *
“Vet.”: There was a dingo killing in
the back country, and landowners were
flat-out to get him. Many a dog was
brought in, but the killing continued, the
tally topping the century and the bonus
offered on the scalp rising accordingly.
When the reward reached £l5O young
Mateson hitched his blueys and started
in. The rules, he learned, were that after
bringing in the supposed killer three
weeks must elapse without a kill before
the money would be paid. Mateson set
traps in every direction with lavish
prodigality, and it wasn’t long before he
dragged in a little runt of a dog, pro-
claiming it loudly as the killer. The
powers look dubious, but recorded his
date. Then while they waited Mateson
again went bush, broadcasted poison-
baits liberally, lit a few fires along the
danger-zone, and when Charlie met him
four nights later he was patrolling the
boundaries of the more vulnerable
properties. “Thought you had the dog,”
Charlie chipped him. “What are you
looking for now?” “Looking be
damned!” came back through the moon-
light. “I’m just makin’ sure his spirit
don’t come back an’ haunt these
docks during the next three weeks.”
* » * *
“S.W.K.”: There hadn’t been a drop of
rain for about seven months; black
clouds had loomed up that morning, but
they had done that before, without any
result, so Carruthers had sent the hand
down to the creek with the 44gal. drum
on the sled for the domestic water. When
he came back an. hour or so later he was
soaked to the skin, for by then it was
teeming, and it looked set in for the
day. The hand, evidently deciding he
couldn’t be any wetter than he was, got
on to the low sled, untied the cornsack
from the top of the full drum, got behind
and was starting to tip it over when
Carruthers, sheltering on the verandah,
roared out: ‘‘Hey, what are y’ dom? t
The hand looked up in surprise. Tippm
it out, o’ course —the tanks 11 all be tuu.
o’ fresh, clean water in half an hour with
this rain.” “They may be,” roared back
his boss above the din of the deluge on
the iron roof, “but that don t justify y
wastin’ it. Take it back down to the
dam an’ tip it in there—we might need
it again in a few munce, ’
PIGEONS AT SPENCER-STREET.
Tin from the mazy railway-tracks
nfeat mobs of pigeons rise,
mow to the surly skies
ST* crowding clatter of wings.
a damp day, and Melbourne steaming,
conking, in smutty ram;
nh rred fog where the river backs
Away fro® the sea-tide, inward streaming.
Was there a time,
Before time itself began,
When man was scarce yet man,
When primitive pigeons flapped
About some prehistoric morass
wS bulky monsters fed in the slime
Or tore at the coarse swamp grass,
when curious forests capped
Hilk whose contours have long been changed,?
Whatever sort of an earth they ranged
snrelv never so safe and as good
As this which is, in a city’s guise,
A pigeon’s paradise.
We build their eyries and grow their food,
Here, in the busy street, . . .
They scarcely will move from passing feet;
Thev rest on the eaves of caves—
Gigantic cliffs by man upthrust—
Careless, above the noise and the dust,
Whether it be a House of God
Or houses of Mammon overhung
Above the thudding of factories;
Cooing, canoodling, taking their ease,
Feeding where men unload
Wheat from the Wimmera, golden gram
Of the Western District, paddock and plain,
Rolling down through the hills again.
Then up they rise with a swoop
And a swing, an airborne troop
Taking their old sky-road.
The sign, the signal, is given.
The vanguard circles and swings
While rifts in a rainy heaven
Silver their wings.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


s
m
SR
HP
--
*v
v
ass
4B&BS
safes
&&
syss
Sc*!
HI
SKS
;tii
.«s
\ v\nn\^
\wmmm
W\'
im
m
mm
SSl'tt
wmwwW:.
•'4♦/#////»
M
WsrmmiP*ifs r 1 m
r;-..
V
**
v 3
s
*SS:
'l/X
Your
in motor spirit
Is in abundant supply
at all
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATIONS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Proprietors
THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL COMPANY LTD
LEADERS IN AUSTRALIAN REFINING SINCE 1924,
GREAT DEVELOPMENTS AHEAD!
-C99/70
Kit? mom
// V///
SANDERS
FILES
Correspondence, in «olc»t.
•tatemenU. etc., filed In lh«
Sander**' can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
Ibe end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lh&
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
-
Price* and far-
ther information
Upon »ppli«»U*®
but the Kronitzes had ever seen
it, and it only appeared at such
seasons and times of the year
when they were in a highly
excitable state, and were just as
likely as the dogs to howl at
the moon, or suddenly jump into
their sulkies and drive madly to
the nearest pub not to return
for a week.
The neighbors explained the
Ming as a star low down on the
horizon, or a rabbit-trapper with
a lantern, or luminous gas from
the gilgais. The more cynical
asserted that it was a purely
imaginary phenomenon, invented
by old Kronitz in a weak
moment and revived since the
quarrel with Nietzsche as an
additional protection for his
family against his enemy.
Nietzsche was a widower,
a fat, blond Bavarian
recently arrived in the country.
He took up the Crown land on
Kronitz’s southern boundary,
hitherto occupied only by the
irling and such stock of Kronitz’s
as were doing a bit of free graz-
ing. Soon after Nietzsche had
settled-in, Kronitz drove over
to see him, mainly to tell him
of the impregnable fence he pro-
posed they should erect on their
joint boundary, and what he ex-
pected from him in the way of
physical and financial assistance.
Now Nietzsche considered
himself to be an educated man
because he read books on philo-
sophy, particularly those written
by his illustrious namesake. He
judged Kronitz by his speech
and manner rather than the
amount of property he boasted
of, and classed him as the social
equal of a half-civilised abo-
rigine. Nietzsche, moreover, had
a natural dislike of hard labor,
and not having the hordes of
sons to do his work for him, he
took a very unsympathetic and
frivolous view of Kronitz’s pro-
posals.
“You needn’t worry, Kronitz,”
he said blandly. “I don’t intend
to steal your cattle, and even
though you look like what they
call in this country a bushranger,
the fact that you came to see
me about this seems to prove
that you don’t want to steal
mine.”
It never occurred to Nietzsche
that by continuing this facetious
attitude he was piling up repri-
sals. In fact, he made a point of
introducing his family, probably
with a view to showing Kronitz
how cultivated people behaved.
The children treated their fear-
some-looking neighbor with the
greatest ease and self-possession.
Hilda, the oldest, then a pretty
little girl of about ten, said to
him, with every appearance of
polite interest; “Have you seen
your Ming lately, Mr. Kronitz?”
Old Kronitz seized the oppor-
tunity eagerly, thinking he could
avenge himself on Nietzsche by
frightening his children out of
their wits, but the more he piled
on the horrors and the dangers
they were in through living right
in the irling’s haunt, the more
they were inclined to giggle. At
last Hilda said, with the greatest
disdain: “We don’t believe in
irlings ; it’s so uncivilised.”
C ROM that modest beginning
1 the feud developed by well-
defined stages until Kronitz no
longer spoke to Nietzsche, but
allowed his sons to commit any
barbarity they liked against him.
Hilda went away to college, and
returned looking very refined and
elegantly beautiful, a fact which
moved the Kronitzes to the
greatest ribaldry, particularly as
she had started dairying.
“Does she think that if she
wears a silk apron and talks to
the cows in Latin they will give
more milk?” they asked every-
body, and roared at their own
wit.
During all these years
Nietzsche had left the Kronitz
boundary untouched. Not that
much harm came of the old
broken fence. Ocasionally some
of Kronitz’s stock broke into
Nietzsche’s place, or some of
Nietzsche’s broke into Kronitz’s.
When the latter occured every
available Kronitz leapt into the
saddle and lashed the stock out
with barbed-wire stockwhips,
boasting later of the hunks of
flesh they had ripped out of the
cattle and horses and the sheep
they had trampled down. In the
end they managed to reach their
highest ambition ; they contrived
to kill one of Hilda’s milkers.
Hilda was naturally furious.
The disdain with which she had
previously regarded the Kronitzes
turned to active animosity; not
so much for the loss of her pro-
perty as for the brutality by
which it had been accomplished
Even then Nietzsche did not
replace or even repair the fence,
but he permitted Hilda to patrol
it and keep an eye on the stock,
a thing he probably wouldn’t
have done if he’d still had his
wife, who would have undoubt-
edly foreseen the dreadful
things that might happen.
Hilda had her own way of
doing the job; instead of keep-
ing the Kronitz cattle out and
their own in, she allowed her
cattle to get all the free grazing
they could on Kronitz’s farm,
only driving them through the
fence to safety when Waltie came
whirling down like a Cossack to
destroy them. It had a very
exciting effect on Waltie; it
stirred up all the wild blood that
flowed through his veins. He
told us about it at church, still
wide-eyed from the happening.
“By crikey she did give me a
surprise,” he said. “Riding bare-
back, without a hat, and all that
fair hair of hers flying out
behind.”
He paused for a while; his
eyes got a glaze on them; he
made sucking noises through his
teeth, and he clenched his large
hands.
“Straddling the horse like a
man, with her skirts flying up
and her bare legs squeezing her
pony.”
He had to stop again, because
the memory was too much for
him.
“Gripes, did I stick the spurs
into my horse? I nearly made
him jump out of his skin, but she
beat me to the gap by a length.”
He stopped again, still with
his eyes bulging and his hands
clenched.
“Crikey! Crikey! I’ll catch
her some time, even if I have to
hide there for a week. And then
what will I do to her?”
He was so intense that it was
perfectly obvious to even the
youngest and most innocent of
us what he would do.
HILDA provoked and tor-
mented Waltie for another
fortnight; each Sunday he was
nearer to a frenzy when he re-
ported his failures to us. But
then she must have got too
daring, and he caught her.
Our parents took elaborate
precautions against us hearing
about it, but while they were still
hushing each other every time
we came into the room our
schoolmates were greeting each
other with;
“Do you know what Waltie
Kronitz did to Hilda
Nietzsche?”
At the church there was a
terrible stir about it. The door
was shut against the Kronitz
family while the elders discussed
what was to be done. Many of
the members wanted to take
advantage of the opportunity to
throw out the Kronitzes neck
and crop ; but the pastor insisted
on treating Waltie as an ordinary
erring brother. The result of the
discussion was that a committee
went to see the Kronitzes with
an ultimatum; Waltie had tp
marry the girl and promise to
behave himself in future.
My father, though he was a
peace-loving man, was always
dragged on to such committees,
a fact which brought us great
prestige among our contem-
poraries through our keyhole
gleanings, for Mother always had
to be told about the doings when
he came home.
We learned that at first old
Kronitz was indignant that
people who owed him so much
money should date to accuse or
make demands on any of his
family. He threatened to have
his sons remove from the church
all the material on which the
congregation owed him: in effect
SONG.
I had been trying to sing
and had not uttered a note,
I was out in a storm and the wind
blew the breath back in my
throat.
I scorned to come inside
to the shelter of a wall,
for song in a constricted space
is not the same at all.
A bird fell at my feet
blown clear out of the sky.
I knew I would sing again
for the bird was dead, but I—
I was stronger than the wind
save for my impotent breath.
While I live I am stronger
reprieved by the bird s death.
Then I laughed at the wind,
and all the dry brown
dust it was hurling at me;
and the wind sank down ...
The world lies round and quiet:
the inner side of a gong
that is never beaten—yet is filled
with all my silent song.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


£5O PRIZE
Norfhern Territory
Competition
The Town Management Board of
Darwin will conduct a competition for
a prize of £5O from moneys made
available by the Commonwealth
Jubilee Committee for the best entry
submitted on “An Historical Review
ot the Northern Territory.” The com-
petition is open to all persons who are
living in or who have lived in the
Northern Territory.
Entries must reach the Secretary,
iown Management Board, Darwin,
irom whom copies of the regulations
governing the competition are obtain-
able, not later than 24th May, 1952.
rrrprrrT
m
;
a
iV
C
■n
£ I a ■
Kl
H 1
ill
for increased
tyre mileage!
Today misaligned front wheels are the greatest enemy of
tyre tread life. In extreme cases of misalignment the treads
can be worn away in less than a hundred miles! Play safe-watch
your front tyres for the first sign of uneven wear.
OVlt
ed
sp' a ?
the
for
ed
are
ffe^
dr agQ
t»e
ro&*
the
to
ac
tu re _
»rv
\t\hg
«9SS!»
re£> u
vfjear
sed
ro TncreO
the
rear
>
r^7
i
I — *r\
.6?
‘The effect from
wheels that ‘turn-in*
is the same, the tqres _
are permanently skidding
diagonally - dragging
instead of rolling!’
0
‘Keep down this sort of wear
and tear on tqres bq
having gour steering
and wheel alignment
checked everg few
months’
if
•A*
i -
vW
and for extra mileage ...
DUNLOP
f
CAR & TRUCK TYRES
DUNLOf RUBBER. AUSTRALIA LIMITED (In a fa Vfc.)
‘TO DAY YO U’L L USE 'A D UNIOP PRODUCT’
t 0 wreck the building. But the
pastor rose in righteous wrath
to rebuke him, revealing, to the
delight of the committee, that
despite all of Kronitz’s hardi-
hood he was just as afraid of
hellfire as he was of the irling.
Getting down on him while
they were able, they forced him
to admit, however reluctantly,
that Waltie ought to marry the
Nietzsche girl. But suddenly he
got the cunning look on his face
that the stock-dealers knew all
too well.
“He can marry her if he
likes,” he said, “but because I
don’t approve of her he won’t
get his start!”
At that, according to our
father, Waltie bellowed like a
bullock that’s being fire-branded
and shouted “I want my
thousand pounds, too, or I won’t
marry her.”
Neither of them would budge.
The old man kept telling the
committee that he had given his
consent, but Waltie seemed to
think that consent without the
money was no consent at all.
All of the committee (except my
father) lost their tempers, said
rude things to the Kronitzes, and
were finally ordered out of the
house.
THE rights and wrongs of the
affair were thrashed out
whenever one of our community
met another. They talked about
what the committee ought to do,
what the pastor could do, and
what the Kronitzes might do.
Naturally there was a great deal
of sympathy for the injured
girl; even people who had
always been suspicious of the
family because of their advanced
ideas were now wringing their
hands with horror at what she
must be going through. But
there didn’t seem to be anything
they could do for her, apart from
putting pressure on Waltie to
marry her. No one seemed to
think there was any other way
out; though they didn’t consider
the solution to be at all ideal,
except from the moral point of
view. It was generally assumed
that Hilda had shut herself up in
a darkened room, and was likely
to remain there indefinitely, and
that the best that her well-
wishers could do was to leave
her alone with her grief.
Then everyone was astonished
and confused on hearing that
Hilda had been seen riding
about on her pony as if nothing
had happened. But when she
was told about the universal
sympathy and the efforts being
made on her behalf she flew into
a furious temper.
' “I never want to see him
again,” she said, “or hear any-
thing about him; except that
he’s dead, so that I can come
and dance on his grave.”
Of course, everyone was
shocked at that; at first. Wish-
ing that anyone was dead was
committing a murder in your
heart, and nearly as bad as the
real thing. But after thinking
about it a bit they decided that
it was natural enough, and ended
up by being sorrier for her than
ever, for what had happened to
her, and for the wicked state it
had got her into. Some over-
weH-disposed person told her
about this, too, and Hilda got
into such a rage about it that she
threatened to attack her with
her whip.
Then suddenly, as if they
didn’t have enough to talk about
already, the irling began to
manifest itself again; not, as
hitherto, in faint flickers that
only old Kronitz could see, or
his boys when they were half-
drunk, but a distinct moving
light, visible to the most
sceptical, that danced through
the air at an incredible speed in
a manner most supernatural. It
patrolled an area round the
Kronitz south boundary, and
was so regular and so eerie that
none of the Kronitzes dared go
far from their house at night.
They were even fearful of going
near the Nietzsche boundary
during the daytime, though they
suspected that the Nietzsche
cattle were getting in again and
ravaging a wheat crop. Only
Waltie was a bit braver than
the others; while they watched
through the windows he talked
repeatedly about going after the
irling with a gun. But his father
wouldn’t have it.
“It’s you it’s after,” he said
in a tremblingly earnest voice.
“And that’s why you are the
one that wants to chase it; it’s
pulling you out after it.”
Then it happened at last that,
despite all their precautions
against being caught out in the
dark, one of the Kronitzes
exposed himself to the irling’s
fury. It was the old man, who
had spent too much time in the
hotel in town to realise how late
he was setting out for home. As
soon as he got inside his
boundary-gate the irling left its
customary haunts and chased
him all the way to his house. It
was a wonder the old fellow
didn’t die, he was so frightened.
He nearly killed his horses the
way he beat them. The boys
heard the rattle of his coming;
they saw the irling chasing him,
but they were too frozen to
even think, through the sud-
denness of it. Old Kronitz got
into the house more dead than
alive, leaving the terrified horses
to wreck the buggy in the farm-
yard. Then they all watched
through little niches between the
blinds while the irling skirted
round their immense wheat
paddocks; becoming more
scared than ever as it occurred
to them that the light might set
fire to their ripe crops.
Quite slowly it dawned upon
their stupefied minds that there
was something a bit unconvinc-
ing about the behavior of the
irling; among other things, it
didn’t seem natural for it to
have to stop to open gates in
order to get from one paddock
to another. They became bold
enough to go out on the
verandas and shout at it, and
the next time it came near one
of them fired a gun at it. That
seemed to upset the irling; for
a moment it disappeared so that
they thought they had destroyed
it; then suddenly there was a
great blaze as the crop caught
fire. For about sixty seconds
they were too horrified to move ;
then there was an awful roar
from all the Kronitz throats.
Irling or no irling, they had to
save their crops. 1 They rushed
for their firebeaters and out into
the paddock, still terrified, but
too desperate to care. All but
Waltie, who ran to the stable,
and in a few minutes was in the
saddle and after the dancing
light.
ALL the men in the district
fought the fire throughout
the night. It burnt hundreds of
acres before it was put out in
the calm of the morning. No
one had time to think of Waltie
Kronitz, but when they were
going round pouring water on
smouldering logs and stumps,
they came across his body. For,
a while they thought that he
had died of heart failure through
working too hard at the fire, but
then one of them discovered
that his neck was broken. It
had them puzzled, until someone
saw that directly overhead there
was an extended branch of a
tree, just low enough to sweep
a man off a horse, if he was
riding recklessly in the dark. It
gave them a great shock, but
they weren’t nearly as upset as
they would have been had it
been any other young fellow.
“I reckon he jolly well got
what he deserved,” said one of
them, a long - suffering
committeeman.
They began to speculate about
how the fire was started, and
whether Waltie’s death was
entirely accidental; but then
they saw old Kronitz coming,
and quickly warned each other
not to say anything about their
suspicions to him,
“Hush it up,” they said.
“Don’t ever tell him anything.”
Old Kronitz looked more
stupid than usual after his
sleepless night. He stared stolidly
at his son and did not seem at
all surprised; in fact, there was
a note of triumph in his voice
as he said finally:
“I always said the irling
would get him in the end.”


a § -
-rasst
:'£S?S£
>v
I the
name is
(T) c CaUiuns
the whisky Is
II
H
I Distilled and blended in Scotland
iiJr’
r*
ATIS 1 "
uiOM
tica
j
SCIA
ÜBlf 1 ®
mbago
! nw
1
. EFf
****
01 ;J
0
.huejumt
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
APPROVED
BY DOCTORS FOR RAPID RELIEF FROM
Dolcin has brought relief to
countless sufferers from rheumatic
disorders in America, Canada,
England and now in Australia.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Fibrositis, Lumbago and Gout.
Prolonged relief is also given
because Dolcin contains substances
which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers,
relieved from the misery of Rheu-
matism, including people who had
given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able
to work —thanks to the relief from
pain Dolcin has brought them.
DOLCIN is eas> to take in tablet
farm.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your
Chemist.
1/I*l
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
100 TABLETS FOR 12/*
DOLCIN
. Dolcln
Informative literature on
will be sent on request to
(Australia) Pty. Lid., Box
GJ>.O., Sydney.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BLACK RECORD.
Details of the plight of Iron
Curtain refugees in Germany
make a series of “New York
Times” articles pitiful reading.
The exposure of the West’s
failure in regard to these
escapees is almost incredible.
It has moved the New York
paper to bitter editorial
comment:
“More than six years after the
war we [meaning chiefly U.S.,
though it applies to the West]
have still not evolved any tech-
nique for handling these refu-
gees which meets even minimal
standards of decency, humanity
and enlightened self-interest.
“A refugee who makes his
way at great risk across a
Stalinist border faces the pros-
pect of being arrested in Ger-
many for illegally crossing that
border ; if he escapes arrest by
concealing his arrival he can
look forward only to a miserable
existence in a strange land where
it is a fierce struggle to keep
body and soul together.
“These are the ‘rewards’ we
give those who are brave and
strong enough to overcome
the tremendous obstacles that
Stalin’s lieutenants have put up
to keep Soviet and satellite
peoples imprisoned.
“Any student of American
post-war policy toward the hun-
dreds of thousands of political
refugees from Eastern Europe
must acknowledge that this his-
tory is indeed a black page on
our record. In the months im-
mediately after V-E Day our
troops drove thousands of dis-
placed Soviet citizens back to
their homelands at bayonet-
point, paying no attention to the
fact that many of them did not
wish to return, and that some
even preferred suicide to going
back.
“If the free world’s struggle
against Stalinism has any
point, that point is the de-
termination to maintain those
ethical, moral and humane
ideals which the Kremlin has
trampled underfoot. There can
be no more relevant test of our
belief in those ideals than the
treatment we give those men and
women who have risked their
lives to join our side. So far
we have clearly failed that test.”
After Ike, Who?
If Eisenhower confirmed
cabled speculations by turning in
his Western-command job to
become a U.S. Presidential can-
didate, who would succeed him?
An American for certain ; and
“New York Times’s” top
correspondent, C. L. Sulzberger,
has listed some of the prospects,
summarising “the general line of
reasoning one hears” regarding
them:
Bradley is admitted to have
great prestige, but is “not overly
popular” with the British as a
result of his “famous quarrel
with Montgomery” and of his
published memoirs.
Ridgway would be enthusi-
astically received. It all depends
upon whether Washington con-
siders it more important for him
to remain in the Pacific theatre.
Gruenther is classified as
immensely respected and well
liked. His “intellectual qualifi-
cations are regarded as supreme.”
The fact that he is a close
personal friend of General
Eisenhower is also vastly to his
advantage. But he is not suffi-
ciently known on a personal
basis in the North Atlantic
Treaty countries: “his job as
Ike’s chief-of-staff has made him
wish to remain always in the
background.”
Collins is known as a
successful commander, but is
regarded as less familiar with the
Continental scene —above all,
political and economic.
Clark is reputed in Italy and
Austria, but not nearly so well
regarded as some other candi-
dates in such key countries as
Britain and France.
Vandenberg is greatly
admired; “but there is still in
Europe a popular supposition
that perhaps an Air Force
general might be too precipitate
and dashing in his final
judgments.”
Summed-up, the odds would
be on Ridgway (of Korea), to
whom, of course, succeeding an
American general on the highest
rung would be nothing new.
West Meet East?
The twain may yet get to-
gether, and soon —at least so
runs a good deal of overseas
speculation.
As representative of this view-
point, London “News Chronicle”
correspondent Vernon Bartlett
sees two possible reasons, one or
the other of which might be
compelling: —-
(1) The Russians may shortly
profess a more moderate policy,
and public opinion would
rightly refuse to forgive poli-
ticians who feared to examine
— St. Louis ( U.S.A. ) “ Globe-Democrat.”
“O.K., DROP THE GUNS!”
any opportunity to lower the
international temperature.
(2) The burden of rearma-
ment may become greater than
Britain and France can bear
without a demoralising drop in
their standards of living, and a
consequent drop in the strength
from which they are supposed to
negotiate.
U.S. Policy "Success."
George F. Kennan, recognised
as America’s outstanding expert
on some aspects of foreign
affairs, has caustically summed-
up on U.S. policy “success” in
the Far East:
“It is an ironic fact that today
our [U.S.] past objectives in
Asia are ostensibly in large
measure achieved. The Western
Powers have lost the last of their
special positions in China. The
Japanese are finally out of China
proper and out of Manchuria
and Korea as well.
“The effects of their expulsion
from those areas have been pre-
cisely what wise and realistic
people warned us all along they
would be. Today we have fallen
heir to the problems and respon-
sibilities the Japanese had faced
and borne in the Korean-
Manchurian area for nearly half
a century, and there is a certain
perverse justice in the pain we
are suffering from a burden
which, when it was borne by
others, we held in such low
esteem.”
Called "Comics."
“Garishly printed on 48 pages
of paper-bound pulp with lurid
covers.”
As that’s London “New
Statesman’s” description, the
use of the term “books” in the
following information may be
stretching the word a bit; but
it’s still a fantastic record:
“Eight hundred million books
were printed in America in
1948 ; of these 700,000,000 were
‘comics.’
“Investigation reveals that,
whilst in 1933 not a single
‘comic’ book was published
openly in the country, today a
conservative estimate counts
500,000,000 yearly, each with an
average monthly printing of
200,000 copies; that, in a
bumper period between March
and November of 1948, the
schoolchildren of the United
States consumed a quarter of a
billion ‘crime-comics’; that each
American child reads from 10
to a dozen of these comics
weekly (excluding ‘swaps’).”
Dragnet Digest.
Bulldog Weight. —As ‘ Man-
chester Guardian” looks at a
hotly controversial issue, united
Europe can be a solution of the
German problem only if the
German tail cannot wag the
Western dog. And “Britain
alone can give the dog the
necessary weight.”
Cultural Front. —As counted by
U.S. Assistant-Secretary of State
Barrett (quoted by “New York
Times”) the Soviet Union in
1950-51 sent abroad the impres-
sive number of 39,000 scientists,
writers, musicians and the like
to prove that Russia is the cradle
of culture.
Obsolete Aloft. London
“Times,” touching on the British
Nene engines which the Attlees
sold to Russia and which alone
made possible the very efficient
Russian MIG 15 jet - fighters
used in Korea: “It is reason-
able to ask why this country did
not develop an aircraft to use
this engine, even if it is now
obsolescent; the British fighters
at present in operation are after
all more properly described a I
obsolete.”
In Uncle Sam’s Image —
Maybe it’s only natural (suggest
London “Economist”) that the
U.S. should be proud of the
method of government under
which its wonderful prosperity
has been achieved and should
want to remake the rest of the
world in its own image: “But it
seems unable to learn that the
rest of the world is not so sure
that it wants to be remade in
the American image.”
The Key to Defence. —Lieut..
Gen. Sir Brian Horrocks in a
London “Sunday Times”
article: “There is one outstand-
ing military problem which
overshadows everything else,
namely, how to make the reserve
armies fit for war. This is the
key to the whole problem of
defence.”
Deflated Fritz. — The
inferiority complex would seem
to have smitten Fritz, going
by Stuttgart “Deutsch Zeitung” ;
“The Federal [West German]
Republic is neither at this
historic moment some sort of a
big Power nor is it going to be
a big Power as far as develop-
ments can now be predicted. We
feel that one should not be
seduced by the subconscious
wish that we Germans would be
able with patience and prudence
to return to our position of the
time before 1914.”
Arabs as Allies. — London
“Time and Tide” has its doubts:
“For the defence of the Middle
East against Russia the Afabs
are completely impotent even if
their rulers wished to fight,
which is doubtful.... ..It is high
time the pretence that the
Arab League is a power or is
likely to be one was abandoned,
and realisation came that arming
it is not merely profitless but
dangerous,”
Excluded In. —Though Britain
(as London “News Chronicle”
interprets) “will not join the
Schuman Plan,” it will attach
to the administration a per-
manent delegation which will be
in the closest touch with the
plan as it unfolds and is de-
veloped by experience; “In such
circumstances Britain’s associa-
tion with it is almost bound to
become so close as to be indis-
tinguishable from membership.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly
O'SUMJrvAj*, /
K w&t yf*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
and AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
u Manufacturers of:
JAXUL WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
(< ELECTRIC USAGES
„ NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
high grade catalogues
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
CINZANO
Sweet
or
Dry
f
For Sale
FREEHOLD STORAGE SPACE
Situated in the city of Rock-
hampton, Central Queensland,
within 1 mile of G.P.O. and li
miles railway goods sheds; strong
building 82ft. x 64ft., 12ft. iron
and hardwood walls, strong floor,
partitioned in centre, loft 30ft. x
22ft., roof recently rebuilt.
Price, £6,200
Further information:
FARM EXCHANGE,
General Commission Agents,
19 Denham St., Kockbampton.
•’Phone: 3768.
For Boys
Important Professional Careers
Unique educational and career opportunities
in the Naval, Military and Air Force Colleges
Royal Australian
Naval College
Royal A ilitary
College. Duntroon
Royal Australian
Air Force College
Each year a considerable number of
boys and youths in their ’teens is
selected from applicants all over
Australia for education and training to
fit them for careers as Officers in the
Navy, the Army, or the Air Force.
Every lad who is a British subject,
substantially of European descent and
domiciled in Australia, has, with his
parents’ consent, the right to apply for
entry into one of the great Service
Training Colleges—the Royal Australian
Naval College, Flinders Naval Depot,
Victoria; the Royal Military College,
Duntroon, A.C.T.—or the Royal
Australian Air Force College, Point
Cook, Victoria.
They must qualify educationally and
medically. Selection is made with
regard to character, intelligence, initia-
tive, personality and other attributes
indicating that they possess the necessary
qualifications for success as Officers in
His Majesty’s Forces. Those chosen
come from schools throughout the
Commonwealth, both Government and
Private.
No parent or guardian can enter a boy
at any of these Colleges by paying fees.
Every boy admitted to the College wins
his place in competition against other
applicants by intelligence, initiative,
physique and outstanding ability. The
entire education, training and upkeep of
these young men is undertaken by the
Commonwealth Government at no cost
whatever to parents. A cash allowance
or pocket money is paid to all trainees
and during leave periods return fares
are provided and living out allowances
paid. Opportunities for entry into the
Service Colleges occur at various times
throughout the year. The ages for
entry are :
Navy 13 to 16i years.
Army and Air Force 16 to 19 years.
If you would like to know more
about these career opportunities
write, stating date of birth, for
fully informative literature.
According to which Service you
prefer, write either to the Secretary,
Department of the Navy, or Depart-
ment of the Army or Department
of Air, Victoria Barracks, St. Kilda
Road, Melbourne, SCI.
CC2.83.12
impressionsm; of high quality
and bold coloration, the music
heightens both background and
drama. It is nautical, though
stylised, and fitted to the
character with consummate
technical adroitness. Perhaps
the trombones, growling and
murmuring in low chords, are
over-indulged; and, generally,
an impression remains that too
much of what is heard comes
from above and below the
stave.
Peter Pears seems not quite
right as Vere. He makes a sad
and rather tired-looking leader
of men, but his acting is better
than that of most tenors.
Frederick Dalberg, a lank,
pallid Claggart, is sufficiently
restrained as not to be melo-
dramatic. And, after searching
the entire Western world for a
young singer suitable to portray
Billy Budd, Theodor Uppman
was brought specially from
America. Such trouble is well
justified.
The composer conducted, and
a crammed Covent Garden
rightly reserved for him its main
battery of applause. In every
sense a memorable evening.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Manly Mardi Gras.
The Village —occasionally also
known as Manly—lies across
that flat, narrow little neck of
land which runs out to the loom-
ing North Head at the entrance
to Sydney Harbor. On the ocean
side there are the surf pavilions
and the broad sands of South
Steyne, North Steyne, Queens-
diff and the restless Pacific ; on
the harbor side, a few hundred
yards away, are the quiet waters
of North Harbor, the Pool, the
ferries, yachts and speedboats.
And, on both beaches, of course,
stand the pines to temper the
winter gales and the summer
sunshine.
The Villagers, it has been
observed, lead normal lives for
seven days a week during winter
and for five days a week during
summer. For the other two days,
it has been reported, they either
go to the Mountains for the
weekend or cower at home in
their houses, flats and boarding-
houses fearful of being crushed
underfoot by the weekend hordes
who cross the Harbor by ferry
or circle it by bus and car to
sample the delights of the Vil-
lage, and to delight the finer
senses of the proprietors of milk-
bars, tea - rooms, ice - cream
stands, amusement-parks and
similar institutions.
Not content with its normal
weekend influx, the Village has,
for the last four years, taken to
throwing one of those week-
long junkets commonly known
as a Mardi Gras, whatever the
day or occasion. The festivities
are on at the moment, and a
day or two ago before the first
rocket went up we sought the
secretary for facts, figures and
whatnot.
We found the secretary, Boyce
Ferguson, a lean, greying ex-
R.A.A.F. type, roosting by a
telephone in a basement office
just off the main street of the
Village. In brief respites from
the insistent phone and other
visitors he explained that the
Mardi Gras is sponsored by the
Manly branches of 15 charities,
headed by Legacy, Red Cross
and the Far West Children’s
Health Scheme, which, between
them, put up a working capital
of £2OOO and share the profits
on predetermined percentages.
Last year, when the show was
blighted by rain, profits ran to
£2500 ; for the two years before
that they totalled £ll,OOO. About
600 volunteer workers take care
of about 600,000 visitors.
We wandered down the Vil-
lage again on the opening night
and selected an observation-post
in the vicinity of the fireworks
display. At the first cannon-
like reports of the rockets
several women screamed, as
many infants started squawling
and an up-till-then excited and
inquisitive pooch dropped its
head and tail and departed for
parts unknown with almost as
much velocity as one of the
rockets. Thereafter, as the
rockets whooshed or exploded
skywards to burst into cascades
of red, green, silver and gold
fire the audience settled down to
a succession of squeals of de-
light and “ahs” of satisfaction.
From the fireworks we flowed
with the crowd along the harbor-
front by the illuminated ferris-
wheel and jangling carrousel
with, beyond them in the dark-
ness, speedboats like dark racing
shadows underlined by a flourish
of white spray. On the Corso,
which runs from Harbor to
ocean, it seemed that most of
the estimated 600,000 visitors
had concentrated in the one
night, and one eddied or drifted
as the crowd fancied under the
lights and flags and past choco-
late - wheels, silhouette - cutters,
knock-’ems, climbing monkeys
and guess-your-weight stands.
By the church a serious and
eloquent young man was preach-
ing the Gospel. He had just
thundered “You’ve got to be in
it to win it” when we were
pushed out of the range of sal-
vation by those behind us, and
his voice was drowned by that
of a wandering minstrel with an
accordion.
On the ocean-front Dare
Devil Durkin’s Motordrome, the
Jungle Girl, another ferris-
wheel and sundry assorted
attractions stuck up like rocks
in a drifting sea of spectators.
A few intrepid surfers were
braving the water and a cool
Pacific breeze, while another
group on the sand by the retain-
ing-wall was braving the con-
tents of unlabelled bottles and
throwing cheerful defiance at
nothing in particular. A similar
party was doing likewise a little
further alone, while a chubby
infant near by played solemn
games with handfuls of sand.
In the soundshell a soprano
was asking, in accompaniment
to the soft slur of the surf, “Was
It a Dream?” and, as we passed
she gave way, apparently un-
answered, to a brisk, enthusiastic
young woman in a shimmering
black dress whose “Did I ever
tell you the story about”
just caught our ears before it
was submerged in other sounds
of jollity.
And so through the Village
again ; through all the urging,
singing and hooting and tooting ;
past the crowded, lighted shops
and the placid police amiably
directing the few crawling
vehicles game enough to venture
into the throng; and past the
posters which promised at least
another six nights of something
similar, of square-dancing and
Scottish bands, or more fire-
works, of a military display with
live ammo, of a surf carnival,
beauty parades and floral festi-
vals ; past the last crush of cele-
brants on the wharf to the ferry
and the quiet waters of the
Harbor.
"Hansel and Gretel."
The Mme. Mathy Opera
Group and the Rockdale Sym-
phony Orchestra under Cedric
Ashton combined at Sydney
Con. to notch a first-class item
in the production of Humper-
dinck’s charming fairy - tale
opera. The settings would have
done credit to any professional
production. In particular the
golden-stairway scene, with its
cleverly - suggested perspective,
and the descent of the protecting
angels for the sleeping children
had in it quite a touch of
imaginative genius. Obviously
the hand of Robin Lovejoy had
much to do with this and with
the smoothness of the produc-
tion.
This score of Humperdinck’s
is a sheer delight. Nimble,
melodically fresh and sparkling,
with woodwinds used to telling
effect in the dramatic moments.
The orchestral color at times
was touched with an almost
Wagnerian depth and richness.
It is completely in keeping with
the spirit of the tale of the
brothers Grimm.
The singing was generally
good, and in their concerted
work Valerie Isbister as Hans
and June Bronhill as Gretel
blended with excellent effect.
Phyllis Rogers as the mother
was vocally sound, if at times
histrionically uncertain, and
Pamela Marks, as the witch,
gave quite a solid performance.
Alan Light, the only male in
the cast, sang the father with
spirit and good resonance —his
baritone has lately taken an
added depth and range, putting
him on the edge of the basso-
cantante territory. His stage
alcoholic activities were con-
vincing and amusing, though he
sobered up a trifle too suddenly
when the news of the children’s
destination hit him.
The orchestra followed the
tricky convolutions of the score
very creditably, and in this no
little thanks was due to Mr.
Ashton’s firm hand, alert eye
and sympathetic mind.
Melrose Art Prize.
The Board of the National
Gallery of S.A. has announced
the particulars of a triennial
competition with a prize of
£lO0 —bequeathed by the late
Alexander Melrose —for “the
most meritorious painting, being
a portrait, or a single figure, or
portrait-group, or a composition
in which the figure or figures are
the prominent part of the work
and express its intention.”
The board reserves the rights
to withhold the prize if no entry
is considered worth it; to
exhibit for one month in the
National Gallery any painting
submitted; and to buy any
work accepted for the exhibition
—artists should indicate the
price when sending in their
entries.
Entry-forms and full details of
the competition, which closes on
May 6, 1952, may be had from
The Director, National Gallery
of S.A., Adelaide.
A long-distance shot from
Dimboola opened the 1952 art
offensive in Melbourne. The
show is at the Athenaeum and
the author is S. H. Bond,
described as a self - taught
artist. It is obvious from his
pictures that his isolation in
Dimboola has saved Mr. Bond
from being caught up in the
“idioms” fashionable at the
moment in the great city. There
is sensitiveness to nature in
“Paper Bark Trees” and in
“Young Angles,” a study not of
girls but of juvenile gum-trees.
Lack of technique and not lack
of good intentions makes most
of his work look a trifle gawky,
but that is something that could
be remedied by a good teacher.


The WIED AT COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of A/asia, Ltd.
Divs.
, ■—*- N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1942.. 459,611 9 9 252,952 121,910 746,859
1943.. 406,759 9 9 270,000 88,999 794,620
1944.. 389,920 9 9 270,000 72,346 842,194
1945.. 502,245 9 9 270,000 152,764 921,675
1946.. 522,191 11 11 330,000 115,669 998,197
1947.. 1,039,634 17* 17* 525,000 362,546 1,150,286
1948.. 826,329 15 15 450,000 259,507 1,267,107
1949. .1,168,585 25 25 750,000 418,585 1,685,092
1950. .1,399,841 25 25 750,000 649,841 2,335,533
1951. .1,677,535 35 351,050,000 627,535 2,963.068
* Excludes depreciation reserve.
The figures are a fine testimony to the
skill and enterprise of the management,
and the support of the big mining cos.
at the Barrier, in building up a highly-
efficient key industry which, before
World War I, was in the hands of Ger-
many and German-controlled plants in
Belgium. Today the co.’s zinc sells in
the open market at a premium over g.o.b,
spelter from all quarters of the globe.
About 63 p.c. of current output is sold
locally, and the balance mostly in the
U.K. And, on the basis of the disparity
between local and equivalent London
prices, the cos. concerned are subsidising
local zinc consumers to the tune of over
£5,600,000 p.a.
Capacity of the big smelter at Risdon
(Tas.) has been recently increased to
100,000 tons zinc p.a., but output is re-
stricted by power-rationing, transport
difficulties and shortages of raw materials
and skilled labor, and seems likely to be
for the next couple of years. The co.
is also a big producer of sulphuric acid
and superphosphate, and earnings are
further supplemented by returns from a
number of metal by-products. The
erection of large works for production of
sulphate of ammonia is well in hand, new
plant for re-treatment of the R’isdon
residues is on order, and mill capacity
at the co.’s mines on the west coast of
Tas. is to be lifted to 250,000 tons ore
p.a. Immediate capital expenditure in-
volved in all this can be met from the
co.’s own resources, the chairman says.
The rise in the price of zinc, and other
metals, was mainly responsible for the
jump of £277,694 in last term’s profit.
London average price of zinc for the
year to June 30, 1951, was £8148.7
(=£A 186.1) per ton as against £886.6
( = £A 108.2) for the previous year. The
figure for December was £Bl9O
( = £A237.5), In Sept, 1950, the Aus-
tralian fixed price for zinc sold on the
local market was lifted from £A4O to
£A6S per ton, and the co. agreed to sup-
ply up to 54,000 tons of the metal p.a. at
this figure. This agreement ran out at the
end of 1951, and the terms of the new
contract have not yet been announced.
The record £1,677,535 of profit—it in-
cludes £lOO,OOO reserved on account of
mine ore depletion—was 55.9 p.c. on the
£3,000,000 of share capital (half of it 8
p.c. cumulative participating prefs.),
compared with 46.6, 38.9, 18.9, 22.5 and
13.5 p.c. back to 1946. The div. was
hoisted from an all-round 25 p.c. to 35
p.c., of which 15 p.c. was labelled bonus.
Over the last decade divs. have averaged
16.6 p.c.
For reasons already stated, the smelter
produced 6368 fewer tons zinc, the effects
of which are also reflected in the out-
turn of by-products from the residue
plant: —-
Cad-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, mium, Copper, Gold,
tons. oz.* {tons. tons. tons, oz.*
1948.. 266,730 1,613 215 151 1,041
1949.-82,669 343,329 2,366 224 165 1,468
1950.. 897 318,070 2,255 221 156 1,337
1951.. 77.529 274,207 1,807 211 115 1,261
* Includes residues from copper plant.
Transport difficulties alone reduced zinc
output by approximately 4300 tons, and
power-supply was cut by about 20 p.c.
from beginning of March, 1951, Since
the close of accounts it has increased to
nearly 95 p.c. of last term’s normal load,
but the Government doesn’t expect to be
able to meet growing demand in full
before the end of 1954.
At the co.’s own mines at Rosebery
(Tas.) 159,429 tons (up 8846 tons) of
high-grade ore (18.95 p.c. zinc) were
milled for the following results:
Produced, Zinc, Lead, Copper, Silver, Gold,
tons. p.c. p.c. p.c, oz. dwt.
Concentrates—
Zinc .. 46,153 56.5 2.4 0.26 0.50 0.65
Lead .. 10,084 16.1 58.8 0.97 29.4 3.28
Copper 3,781 18.6 27.6 9.39 125.9 44.05
Residues.. 99,410 1.8 1.1 0.12 1.40 0.90
In addition 126,551 tons zinc concen-
trates were delivered from the big min-
ing cos, at the Barrier. Estimated ore
reserves at Rosebery are now put at
2.000. tons (up 500,000 tons), of which
100.000 tons is below average grade.
Output of sulphuric acid (all plants)
was 103,505 tons (down 5776 tons), and
of superphosphate (Risdon plant) 50,765
tons (down 8846 tons).
Balance-sheet figures reflect the co.’s
strong financial position and continued
expansion of the undertaking:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000.000 £3,000,000
Sundry creditors.. 1,083,706 1,310,545 1,844,946
Deposits .. . . 870 305 247
Tax reserve . . 947,926 927,999 1,636,827
Final div. . . 540,000 540,000 750,000
Mines and roads.. 572,450 579,559 587,257
Freeholds, etc. .. 534,030 617,876 670,313
Plant, etc. . . 5,350,547 5,903,634 6,519,116
Shares, etc. .. 755,208 830,869 921,199
Stocks and stores 1,085,726 1,636,340 1,890,794
Book debts .. 1,085,726 1,636,840 1,890,794
Cash, etc. .. 2,508,940 2,824,578 4,198,608
Preliminary costs 172,347 172,347 172,337
The year’s net additions to plant were
£615,482, to shareholders £90,330, to
stocks, etc., £254,454, and to book debts
£370,802. Cash, etc., was strengthened
by £1,374,030, and only £534,401 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The more-or-less liquid
surplus amounted to £3,773,837.
The co.’s problem at the moment, like
that of other zinc producers throughout
the world, is not to sell its product, but
to ensure equitable distribution of sup-
plies ; a state of affairs that seems likely,
under pressure of rearmament, to con-
tinue for some time. Still, existing con-
ditions are abnormal; a substantial
reduction in world expenditure on arma-
ments and/or sudden release of metals
now stockpiled would react immediately
upon metal prices.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the f.-p. ss. ords. at 295. 9d. to
return 5.9 p.c. on the basis of a 35 p.c.
distribution. On the same basis the f.-p.
ss, prefs. at 28s. 3d. yield 6.2 p.c. The
prefs. enjoy priority as to capital,
participate in new ord.-share issue, but
do not share in surplus assets.
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.
Ampol & Subsidiaries.
( Dividends Nominal
Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £
Combined nominal reserves .. .. 205,790
Premiums on new shares, £38,370.. 244,160
1947 .. 61,285 6 6 52,279 253,166
From debts-reserve, £47,733 ..1
From assets written-up, £25,000 I „5i 049
Less bonus to deferred share- f ’
holders .. .. .. J
Unexplained reductions of combined
nominal reserves, £111,492 .. 140,457
1948 . . 164,444 6 7* 76,796 228,105
Premiums on new shares, £61,616 7 OQn IRQ
Added reserves, £442 .. .. ) zyu ' I(sd
1949 .. 181,881 6 8 82,459 389,585
Cost cancellation contract, £24,000 365,585
W/off oil exploration, £25,000 .. 340,585
Share premiums, £157,100 .. 497,685
1950 .. 190,594 6 8* 104,995 583.284
Overprovided taxes, £20,187 .. 603,471
1951 .. 252,877 6 9* 149,465 706,883
* Subject to intangibles, £261,460.
Those on the pref. and ord. registers
at Jan. 25 are to be offered respectively
150.000 new £1 6 p.c. prefs., three for
10, at a premium of 2s. each, and
2.000. new ss. ords., one for four, also
at a premium of 2s. each. Of the ords.
670.000 are earmarked for prior allot-
ment to garage proprietors and others
who handle the co.’s products. The issues
—payment is required in full on applica-
tion —will bring in £865,000, of which
£650,000 will be capital and £215,000
share premiums. The premiums make a
6 p.c. pref. div. worth 5.4 p.c. and 9\ p.c. to
the ords. 6.8 p.c. on the new shares. Paid
capital will thus become £2,480,000 in
650.000 £1 prefs. and 7,320,000 ss, ords.
On that lot the pref. div. and 9y p.c. to
the ords. will together call for £212,850,
or £40,020 less profit than was earned
last term.
After exercising the rights and allow-
ing for brokerage, etc., the net price of
the ords. at 9s. sd. is 95., and of the
prefs. at 225. 6d. approximately the same
figure. The return at the net price is
5.3 p.c. in each case on the basis of last
term’s distributions. Including the new
issues, net tangible cover is £4 16s. 7d.
prefs. and 6s. lOd, ords.
The new money is wanted to help buy
a 18,000-ton oil tanker, now under con-
struction in Britain at cost of over
£1,350,000, and to provide for further
all-round expansion of the business,
especially in Queensland, where a new sea-
board terminal has just been erected on
the river-bank near Brisbane preparatory
to marketing of the co.’s products
throughout the southern half of the State,
which will also mean installation of a
number of electric petrol-pumps, as well
as a lot of preliminary administrative
work.
The co., which set up in Sydney only
16 years ago, had a hard fight at the start
to get a footing in a severely competitive
market. However, difficulties were sur-
mounted, and shareholders came into the
picture with a maiden 7 p.c. in 1941,
followed by annual distributions averag-
ing 7.2 p.c, for the 11 years to the close
of last accounts, and the outlook for
shareholders is more promising than it has
ever been.
Turnover has bounded along following
(1) abolition of petrol-rationing (in which
the co. took a prominent part) m Feb.,
1950, (2) increase in the number of Patrol-
consuming vehicles, etc., in use, and (3)
widening of the field of operations, which
were extended to South Australia toward
the close of accounts in 1950. Still,
owing to relentless pressure of rising
f.o.b. prices and operating costs against
a less buoyant ceiling of fixed selling-
charges, only meagre net returns have
been won from expanding sales of petrol
and petroleum products over the last three
years. During this period the main source
of profit has been the earnings of two
chartered oil-tankers Strangler and
James Stove —hence the co.’s decision to
buy a tanker of its own.
Last term turnover took a leap of over
34 p.c., reaching a record £7,995,329. Net
earnings stepped up by £62,283 (over 32
p.c.) to £252,877. That was after allow-
ing £214,433 (up £54,856) for deprecia-
tion and £176,262 (up £94,067) for taxa-
tion, and sending £23,924 (up £3544) to
the staff fund, but leaves out of the
reckoning £20,187 transferred back to
p and 1. from overprovision for taxation
in 1950. The £252,877 was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 17.7 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 16.7, 20,
18.1 and 7.4 p.c. back to 1947. A point
was added to the div., making it 9\ p.c.
The £706,883 of reserves is subject to
£261,460 of intangibles, arising mainly
out of purchase of subsidiaries.
The continued expansion of the busi-
ness, outlay in connection with the Bris-
bane and other terminals, and rising
prices, etc., are reflected in net additions
of £332,366 to plant, £364,196 to stocks
and £193,311 to book debts:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,073,950 1,250,000 1,694,170 1,830,000
Overdraft.. 532.979 59,755 I 664 787 1 187 547
Creditors.. 217,014 313,764 )
Tax-provision 133,500 179,700 158,000 253,000
Final divs. 61,796 34,501 45,688 66,500
Freeholds,
etc.* .. 289,945 297,453 370,457 380,585
Plant, etc... 526,816 573,650 751,131 1,083,497
Stocks .. 770,392 643,880 1,169,307 1,533,503
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 398,681 450,862 593,574 786,885
Intangibles 261,460 261,460 261,460 261,460
* Includes country storage terminals.
To help meet the outlay shareholders put
up an extra £135,830 of capital, and the
amount coming to the bank and others
was increased by £522,760. Owing to the
expenditure on fixed assets there was a
drop of £81,065 in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£813,341).
The co.’s permit to drill for oil in the
North-west Cape district (W.A.) has been
passed to a new drilling co., in which
California Texas Corp. (U.S.) has become
the major partner. Ampol will be relieved
of further expenditure in this connection,
but will benefit if the venture is
successful.
Concrete Industries (Aust.), Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. f Dividends— serves, serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
1948.. 13,310 6* p.c. = 11,018 2,292 26,475
Issue expenses, £1875 .. .. 24,600
1949.. 20,924 8 p.c. = 16,844 4,080 28,680
1950.. 36,638 9 „ „ 26,240 10,SOS 39,078
Proceeds asset revaluation, £45,000 .. 84,078
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 34,078
Issue expenses, £1667 .. .. 32,411
Unexplained reduction, £14,274 .. 18,137
1951.. 52,638 10 p.c. = 34,359 18,279 36,416
* After deducting intangibles, £34,567.
This holding co. and its nine sub-
sidiaries are in the concrete-construction
trade. Activities, which are spread
throughout the Commonwealth, range
from manufacture, reconditioning and
lining of water-supply pipes (the line on
which the business grew up) to erection of
“Monocrete” homes, schools, factories
and the making of concrete tiles and
bricks, as well as a wide range of concrete
articles used by public authorities and in
the rural industries.
The business, which kicked off in 1936
as Concrete Linings, Ltd., has been well
handled and profitable from the start.
Two competitors—Concreters, Ltd., and
Monier Industries, Ltd.—became sub-
sidiaries in 1941 by an exchange of
shares, the aim being to eliminate over-
lapping in organisation and to bring
about savings in operating and other
costs. The group was engaged almost
entirely on defence contracts, which
carried narrow margins, during the war.
Then, in 1946, the present holding co.
was formed, a 45-acre block, with a rail-
way siding and some buildings, was
bought from the Federal Government at
Villawood, near Sydney, and a vigorous
programme of expansion began. Here
the various subsidiaries have been set up
alongside one another, and their opera-
tions follow flow-lines, thus cheapening
and quickening production. New off-
shoots have been formed to undertake
brick- and tile-manufacture, and others
have taken over certain domestic activi-
ties, thus decentralising and simplifying
administration.
Shareholders received divs. averaging
10.6 p.c. for the first six years, followed
by a steady 5 p.c. for the four years to
1945, and then an average of 7.6 p.c. f or
the six years to the close of last accounts
And over the last seven years those oii
the register have put up £340,430 of fresh
cash-paid capital, plus £15,000 of share
premiums, and received £50,000 of bonus
scrip, thus lifting issued capital from
£59,570 to £450,000 at June 30 last.
There was then £48,757 still to come on
100,000 new £1 shares issued at par i n
January, 1951, to help finance extensions
to the pipe- and tile-plants and comple-
tion of the new brick factory. The
bonus scrip, handed out immediately be-
fore the cash issue, came £40,000 from
revaluation of assets, which were
written-up by £45,000, and £9OOO from
the share-premium reserve.
Last term all sections reported record
output and sales, thanks partly to exten-
sions of plant and partly to installation
of the co.’s own generating equipment,
which largely offset the effects of power-
rationing and blackouts. So, despite the
rise in operating costs, the co. was able
to show £16,000 more profit at £52,638.
That was after allowing for depreciation
(£19,933, up £1486) and taxation
(£17,866, up £8568). The £52,638 was
15.3 p.c, on average capital as against
12.5,9.9 and 7.8 p.c. back to 1948. A point
was added to the div., making it 10 p.c.,
and the £18,279 that remained lifted
reserves £36,416 in excess of intangibles.
The unexplained reduction of £14,274 in
reserves related to the difference between
net assets of subsidiaries and the value
of the shares purchased.
The £51,243 of fresh cash-paid capital,
together with £114,135 from outsiders
and surplus earnings, etc., went £115,534
net into fixed assets, £83,841 into stocks
and £27,665 into book debts:-
Consolidated Figures.
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital.. £187,500 £281,585 £BOO,OOO £401,213
Creditors and
overdraft . . 80,53 1 69,2 68 115,52 5 229,660
Tax provision 8,8 10 8,7 7 8 11,231 19,750
Final dividend 6,344 9,844 14,846 20,854
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 21,109 48,77 7 5 2,195 91,396
Plant and
machinery.. 119,620 1 21,250 116,039 182,608
Vehicles and
furniture. . 22,248 23,537 33,849 43,618
Stocks . . 111,699 139,417 160,489 244,330
Debtors . . 34,7 8 7 64,93 9 117,695 145,360
Cash.. .. 195 235 413 611
Intangibles* 18,5 67 18,5 67 18,567 18,567
*Less patents reserve.
During the year new sites for expansion
of activities were secured at Brisbane,
Newcastle and Cooma, and since the
close of accounts two new pipe factories
have come into operation, one at Mel-
bourne and the other at Dareton
(N.S.W.). The new brick factory,
capacity 11 million bricks per annum,
has not yet come into commercial
production.
Since most of the co.’s business is
done with public bodies, the present
easeful tendency in private building is
not expected to seriously affect turn-
over. The long-term outlook for the
business is an encouraging one. At
365. 6d. (425. six months ago) the f.-p.
£1 shares return 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is 21s. 6d._
L. J. Hooker, Ltd. (Sydney)
r~ Dividends —\
, —Prefs.— \ B®' ,
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. <■ Ords. , serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1948.. 8,634 684 687 12* p.c. = 4,581 36,446
From tax provisions, £857 .. 37,303
1949.. 12,793 684 687 12* p.c. = 7,109 41.616
Taxes paid, £2 063 .. .. .. 39,553
Excess depreciation provision, £1742.. 41,295
1950.. 26,962 684 687 17* p.c. = 10,65 5 56,231
Profit sale of investments, £4 808 .. 61.039
Share premiums, £24,479 .. •• 86,518
1951.. 34,045 664 687 22* p.c. = 16,642 101,650
* Subject to £48,178 intangibles.
This is one of Sydney’s largest and most
energetic real-estate concerns. Head-
quarters are in the city, and there are 10
branches covering the eastern suburbs,
Crows Nest and Manly. Since the public
became interested in 1948 the business
has expanded rapidly, by absorptions and
otherwise. Earnings have responded, and
those on the register have shared in the
prosperity, the basis of which is condi-
tions in the metropolitan property market.
Here demand has, until recently, run
well ahead of supply ever since war
ended, and a rapidly-expanding economy
and currency inflation pushed up
prices, especially for home and com-
mercial properties with vacant posses-
sion, beyond the limit of true economic
worth.
During 1951 the co.’s sales, which
increased by £1,718,421, reaching
£10,775,992, topped the score for this
class of business in the Commonwealth-
Among the larger city properties to m
under the co.’s hammer were Austrah
House, Carrington-street (£310,000), an
Pacific House, Pitt-street (£165,000), an
two brick buildings, 320-328 Georg
street, which were sold privately to Woo
worths for £235,000, And the con l® I rn
sion on sales is supplemented by fees u
a large and growing rent-roll m
property-management department and
valuations and appraisals, , *
Net profit for the year to June 30
was £34,045 (up £7073), after setting » SKW


Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
IDE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
. filler
Cylinder
im
guthridge
pty., limited,
r „^' 12 Parramatta Road,
Sydney, N.S.VV.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Missing Friends.
SYDNEY HENRY EGAN, deceased—En-
quiry is directed by the Supreme Court
of N.S.W. to ascertain if GEORGE EGAN
(Junior), brother of the deceased, sur-
vived him, or, having pre-deceased him,
left children who survived the deceased.
The said GEORGE EGAN (Junior) is a
son of the late GEORGE EGAN (also
known as GEORGE CONNOLLY) and
late CATHERINE EGAN (nee HOLLO-
WAY). Any person claiming to be in-
terested under the enquiry, whether as a
survivor or a representative of a de-
ceased person, should communicate im-
mediately with THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W., for
information as to filing a claim in the
Court. Any person who can give infor-
mation about GEORGE EGAN (Junior),
or about any children of his, will please
communicate with the said Public
Trustee.
LANHAM or MYNOTT, —Information is
sought as to relatives of WILLIAM
GEORGE LANHAM, deceased, late of
Guildford, England, and of his parents,
GEORGE LANHAM and MARY ANN
REBECCA LANHAM (formerly MY-
NOTT), who lived at Guildford, formerly
at Walthamstow, England.—Write
TRIGGS, TURNER & CO., Solicitors,
135/6 High Street, Guildford, England.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divoecb.
TO LEITA WATSON late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that CECIL FORBES
WATSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2473 of 1951 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 28th day of March
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from NORMAN V.
STEWART, Solicitor, Yorkshire House,
14 Spring Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA. — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOSEPH MacDONALD for-
merly of Rosebery in Tasmania Miner. —
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice
to you to appear and answer the charges
in the Petition of JOYCE KATHLEEN
CECILIA MacDONALD of Grove Road
Glenorchy in Tasmania no occupation
praying for a dissolution of marriage on
the ground of desertion In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the Petition and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereof AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purposes aforesaid within Thirty days
after the date of this publication an
appearance must be entered at the Prin-
cipal Registry at the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart. —
R. W. FOALE, Principal Registrar.
CLERK, WALKER & STOPS, 116 Collins
Street, Hobart, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
fIT THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JACKSON formerly of
Katoomba Upholsterer.—TAKE NOTICE
that OLIVE MARY JACKSON has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 4371 of 1951
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 31st day of March 1962
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CURTISS, DEZARNAULDS
& BUTTFIELD, Solicitors, 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Public Notice.
I, VICTOR ALLAN SEAGLOVE, of State-
less nationality, born at Shanghai, China,
resident three years in Australia, now
residing at 20 Denning Street, Petersham,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
Telephones: FA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Corrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrle, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
YOU ARE OFFERED
More than
DOUBLE Bank
Interest Rate!
£4/5/- every year for 10 years
(maturing 30th September 1961)
for every £lOO invested in the
City Electric Light Co. Ltd.
(A Company incorporated in Queensland. The Company is also registered zn the
State of Ney South Wales, where it is an electric authority in the Shire of Tweed»Jj
EIGHTH GILT-EDGED
ƒ
iioaODO«
Loan
OPEN!
Prospectus is available from, and applications free of exchange may be lodged with:
The Bankers for the Issue: The English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd. and the
National Bank of Australasia Limited (including the Queensland National Bank Ltd.) at
any of their offices in Queensland, Northern Rivers of N.S.W., Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Hobart or Launceston,
or with Messrs. lan Potter & Co., members of the Melbourne Stock Exchange, 360 Collins
St., Melbourne, or through any members of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia,
or at any office of the City Electric Light Co. Ltd.
TTT!AT> OFFICE: 156 BOUNDARY STREET, BRISBANE. Phone B 2333
Important Features of this Loan !
THE RETURN OF 4-’% (payable half-yearly
free of exchange af branches of the companies
bank) is one of the most attractive offered for
many years. It is more than twice the highest
rate of return on Bank deposits.
TRUSTEE SECURITY: An authorised investment
in Queensland.
INVESTMENT; The Loans of the Company are
rightly regarded as amongst the soundest in
Australia. They are a gilt-edged investment.
EARNING CAPACITY: The Company's earning
rights are assured by its Agreement with the
Queensland Government. Increasing demands
for electricity assure increased earnings.
INTEREST on this and prior issues is covered
more than 4 times by earnings.
SECURITY: The Loan is secured as a first
mortgage over the whole of the Queensland
assets of the Company. The present and other
issues ranking pari passu are backed by at least
£3OO of assets to every £lOO of debenture
stock.
STOCK MATURING 31st January 1952: Holders
can continue their investment at the same rate
for another 10 years by converting to this
Eighth Loan.
INVEST £5O AND MULTIPLES: Subscriptions of
£5O and multiples of £5O can be made free of
exchange.
CASH APPLICATIONS may be paid (a) in full
on application or (b) 10% on application and
the balance not later than 15th April 1952.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING: The Company's
Loans are listed on the Stock Exchange and are
readily marketable, an advantage if you wish to
realise on your holding.
EARLY APPLICATION IS ESSENTIAL: The
Loan opens 21st January 1952, and Subscrip-
tions Lists close not later than Saturday, 9th
February 1952.
The Loan has been underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Melbourne.
INVEST NOW IN CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT CO. LTD. LOAN!
ANGLO-IRANIAN
OIL COMPANY
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The forty - second annual
general meeting of The Anglo-
Iranian Oil Company Limited
was held on December 20th at
the Chartered Insurance Insti-
tute, 20, Aldermanbury, London,
England.
Sir William Fraser, C.8.E.,
LL.D. (Chairman and Managing
Director), presided.
The Secretary (Mr. T. Mac-
Donald) read the notice conven-
ing the meeting and the auditors’
report.
The Chairman said: Ladies
and gentlemen, the directors’
report and accounts and my
statement to stockholders have
been in your hands for some
time, and I presume that, fol-
lowing the usual procedure, you
will allow me to take them as
read. (Agreed.)
The Chairman then moved
the adoption of the report and
accounts for the year ended 31st
December, 1950.
The Viscount Alanbrooke,
K.G., G.C.8., 0.M., D. 5.0.,
seconded the resolution, which
was carried unanimously, after
stockholders’ questions had been
answered by the Chairman.
The retiring directors, Sir
Hubert Heath Eves, Mr. D.
Abel Smith, M.C., and Mr. W. J.
Keswick, were re-elected, and a
resolution was passed for the
remuneration of the auditors,
Messrs. Brown, Fleming and
Murray, to be arranged by the
Board,
Mr. G. H. Whigham proposed
a vote of thanks to Sir William
Fraser, the Board and the Com-
pany’s staff, and said it had been
an unusually long time since the
last meeting, and during that
time unusual events had affected
the Company. What these
must have entailed in stress and
strain on the Chairman and his
colleagues on the Board would
be appreciated especially by
those who had practical experi-
ence of the direction of large
business concerns. The dispute
with Persia had checked the
Company’s progress when the
volume and variety of its busi-
ness had reached new heights,
and it was well set for still
further advancement. That the
check had been so well with-
stood, and that the Company’s
progress would continue, as it
so obviously would, irrespective
of how the Persian dispute were
solved, was the solidest testi-
mony of the Board’s successful
direction of the Company’s
affairs. They all hoped for a
satisfactory solution of the
Persian dispute and wished the
Board well in its continued
efforts in that direction. He
proposed a vote of thanks to the
Chairman, his colleagues on the
Board and the Company’s staff,
confident in the future of this
great concern in their able and
vigorous hands.
After a brief acknowledgment
by the Chairman the proceedings
terminated.
£13,018 (up £5299) for deprecia-
tion and £23,350 (up £7750) for
the taxgatherer. The prefs.
called for £1371, and the balance
was equal to 38.7 p.c. on ord.
capital as it stood at the close
of accounts, compared with 42,
18.7 and 11.9 p.c. back to 1948.
The div. was hoisted from \l\
p.c. to 22| p.c., leaving over
half (£16,032) of the year’s net
earnings in the business. The
£101,550 of reserves is subject
to £48,178 of intangibles, which
is the goodwill value placed on
the rent-roll.
During the year the remaining
19s. 6d. on 10,105 £1 ords. was
got in, and 13,697 f.-p. £1 ords.,
which carried premiums totalling
£24,479, were issued in connec-
tion with the purchase of the
real-estate business of Thorn,
Coleman and Co., Manly, and
the acquisition of a property at
Bondi Junction:
Paid capital— 1949. 1950. 1951.
Preference .. £20,000 £20,000 £20,000
Ordinary .. 60,882 60,882 84,432
Creditors and
tax provision 14,940 31,649 60,132
Final div. .. 3,805 6,088 10,554
Freeholds .. 9,088 9,088 44,999
Plant, fittings 13,145 24,098 24,589
Shares .. 23,603 37,948 53,811
Debtors . . 39,669 40,737 69,808
Cash and bonds 7,560 14,801 35,283
Intangibles .. 48,178 48,178 48,178
Freeholds increased by £35,911
and shareholdings, largely scrip
listed on ’Change, by £15,863.
During the last few months
the real-estate market has lost
much of its former buoyancy.
Though potential demand re-
mains greater than supply, actual
demand has been curbed largely
by credit restrictions, which have
reduced the volume of mortgage
money available, and by larger
down-payments now required by
most lenders. For these and
other reasons, prices for home
properties have dropped to
much more reasonable levels,
especially in the over-£5OOO
class, for which the ranks of
buyers has thinned considerably.
The demand for factory and
shop premises is still strong, and
seems likely to remain so while
building materials are scarce;
but here, too, capital investment
is more or less controlled
through credit-restriction.
The market sums up the posi-
tion by pricing the f.-p. pound
ords. at 435. (575. a year ago) to
return 10.4 p.c. on the basis of
last term’s distribution, or 5.8
p.c. on a Vl\ p.c. div. basis. At
28s. and 20s. 6d. the 8 p.c. and
6 p.c. prefs yield 5.7 p.c. and 5.8
p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover is £7 17s, lOd. prefs. and
325. Bd. ords.
Anglo-Westralian Mining Pty.,
whose scrip is held 35 p.c. by
Mt. Isa and the balance by
American Smelting and Refin-
ing (New York) and Terra Nova
Properties (Canada), is now
working the not-very-rich and
complex ore in the old Protheroe
leadmine, Northampton (W.A.),
at a profit, thanks to the high
price of metals, and soon ex-
pects to have a cyaniding plant
on the old Horseshoe goldmine,
Peak Hill (W.A.), in operation.
The co. has also been investigat-
ing two other auriferous proper-
ties (near Sandgate) and a lead
prospect (at Marble Bar) in the
west
* * * *
Shareholders in Kundang Tin
Dredging will welcome the
announcement that arrange-
ments have been made with
London-controlled Taiping Con-
solidated to dig Kundang’s
remaining 292 acres of pay-
dirt, at Kundang (Malaya), on
a profit-sharing basis, terms of
which are not broadcast. Dis-
mantling of the Taiping machine
is to begin in about four months’
time, when the area on which it
is now engaged is worked out.
Transport and re-erection are
expected to be complete and
opening-out operations begun
“well before the end of 1953.”
Kundang paid its last div. (2s.
a share) in 1941 from the
handling of 0.651 b. ground,
which should yield satisfactory
profits with tin prices and costs
at current levels. Its dredge
was removed during the Jap
occupation, and the area was
too small to warrant purchase
of new machines at post-war
cost. At end 1950 Government
securities, cash, etc., totalled
£47,183 ; there was only £127
coming to outsiders. The
property stood at £45,421, and
dredge, plant, etc., at £68,605
net. Final settlement of the co.’s
claim (amount unstated) for loss
of its dredge is yet to be made.
Paid capital is £125,000 in £1
shares, which the market prices
at 16s. 9d. as against Bs. 9d.
early in 1951,


Women’S LetterS
From Sydney
The opening night of “Hansel and
Gretel” showed once more that a gala
opening at the Conservatorium is never
quite gala enough. Quite a fair galaxy
of Sydney’s beauty and chivalry was pre-
sent, and young lovelies sold the pro-
grammes with the correct amateurishly
social flutter; but the Con.’s intransi-
academic air put rather a damper
on it all. Robin Lovejoy’s decor was
attractive, but then that gingerbread
house is one of the most exciting things
in fairytale. The fascinating faceless
angels, too, seven feet tall and definitely
dream stuff, were also something to re-
member. Noted Lady Anderson in the
centre of the hall with Madame Regala
and Madame Vrisakis. Mrs. H. A.
Showers came along with her young
daughter. Mrs. Arthur Davis wore that
lovely honiton lace fichu which used to
belong to Lady Hamilton. The Chief
Secretary was present, also the Baintons,
the Boyers, the Delpierre Willises, the
George Bardsleys, the Stanley Wilsons
and Mr. H. P. Tinkler, who was
accompanied by his sister,
Eva Herz seems to have been doing a
little sunbaking, for she is as brown as
a berry (that is, if a berry could be found
as brown as Eva). At the “Hansel and
Gretel” opening she was assisted in her
programme-selling by sister Lillian wear-
ing blue seersucker nylon, Jillian Lemone
in romantic primrose, Prudence Mc-
Cauley wearing a short dress with a trig
white jacket, her sister Anne and Sue
Maitland.
It is suggested that when Elaine
Shannon of Strathfield marries Dugald
Moray McGregor of Burwood on Friday,
February 1, the groom’s friends will form
a guard-of-honor with crossed corner-
posts, for said D. G. McGregor is
secretary of the N.S.W. Rugby Union,
the Australian Rugby Union and the
Rugby Union Club. Port Macquarie has
been chosen for the honeymoon, but it
will have to be interrupted to allow the
triple secretary to attend the annual
meeting of the A.C.T. Rugby Union.
Latest abomination from the American
word-makers is “well-brained,” as in
“She is one of the best-brained women
in Wisconsin”; “How well-brained is
your son?” “She is too poorly-brained
for the job.” Plans are going ahead, it
is said, to have the word-maker who
manufactured this word brained himself:
thoroughly-well-brained.
Whether sales are called “Fabric
Fiestas,” “Special Sellings,” “Store-wide
Clearances” or “Customer Catchlines”
they’re still sales, and the fever they
engender seems to be more infectious than
ever. It has spread especially to the men-
folk, who, although they haven’t yet
mastered the correct technique of the
experienced sales-grabber, appear to be
doing very well, and even to be getting
that glow of battle which marks the true
sales-addict. It is a wonder that the
psychologists haven’t discovered the
therapeutic values of sales for people who
are too shy and introverted, slow to
make up their minds, overcontemplative
and unaggressiye. A few forays into the
sales battles with an obligation to bring
back some bargain would do them a
world of good. No one could succeed
at a sale without expanding his ego along
with his elbows.
During the week the Lady Mayoress
entertained at a small tea-party, when
the guests had an opportunity of seeing
the new decorations for her rooms, which
have been given a complete face-lift for
the Royal visit. The walls and Venetian
blinds are soft dove-grey, curtains and
carpet a rich mushroom-pink, which is
repeated in some of the chair-upholstery.
Blended with this gracious basic color-
scheme are limes and allied shades in
chair-covers and paintings, gold in mirror-
frames and ornaments and subtle touches
of pale-blue in Dresden and Sevres
porcelain. The three new crystal
chandeliers were brought from Mel-
bourne, but most of the fabrics that have
been used were specially designed and
made in Italy.
Those of us who have to debate with
ourselves as to whether we can afford to
buy linings for our curtains may be a
little discouraged to learn that the
curtains in the Lady Mayoress’s
rooms have four linings, one a
bump lining, the next of flannelette to
give weight, the third of black sateen to
deaden light and retain the color of the
rose brocade in the daytime, and last the
usual casement lining. These curtains
have a drop of 17ft., and every part of
them (including all linings) is made by
hand so that no stitches show through.
These who are interested in the future
of acting in Sydney are looking forward
with interest to the 1952 season of the
Metropolitan Theatre which opens to-
morrow night with “Castle in the Air.”
This play had a very successful season at
the Adelphi in London, when Jack
Buchanan played the leading role. It was
this play also which won some notoriety
by getting itself banned by the Coal
Board, which it gaily lampoons. The
part of the Earl of Locharne will be
played for the Metropolitan by American
actor John Llewellyn, and others in the
cast will be Audrey Peek, Gerry Epstein,
Reginald Lye and Kenneth Warren.
Although great thought is generally
given to the “hard likker” at parties these
days, the soft-drink addicts don’t usually
get much attention, which seems to be a
serious lack in entertaining in Sydney,
especially in summer. Here is a punch
which Madame Roberto Regala, wife of
the Minister for the Philippines, usually
serves at her parties, although she says
it is her daughter who makes it. Mix
together half a bottle of blackberry
brandy, one bottle G. 1., two bottles coca
cola, three bottles «of ginger-ale, six
bottles of soda-water and one of rasp-
berry cordial. Serve in a punch bowl
with sliced oranges. It provides about
35 cups.
People who have to provide appro-
priate themes for Australia Day must
have had to do a little brain-flogging to
get some originality into it this year,
since last year gave all aspects of Aus-
tralian history such a bashing. The
A.B.C.’s Breakfast Session is to include
“Is ’E An Aussie, Lizzie, Is ’E?” Flotsam
and Jetsam’s famous parody on the Aus-
tralian soldier of the Kaiser’s war.
Thinking back, it really does seem that
this is one of the few bits of local color
overlooked during our Jubilee Year.
Virginia Slijter, Dutch columnist and
journalist, is the subject of this Hugh
Spencer photograph. Virginia seems to
have done radio, press-liaison and
journalistic work all over the world, but
having served as officer-in-charge of the
Brisbane branch of the Netherlands East
Indies Information Service in 1945 she
now returns to Australia in the hope of
making her home here. Sydney’s climate
(oddly enough) attracts her, she says;
there are no snow and ice and the heat is
not so intense as in the Indies.
This is the season of annual reports,
generally quite forbidding things, but the
Opportunity Clubs of Melbourne have
devised a form so ingenious it should be
adopted universally. About nine inches
broad and seven deep, it is like a visible
file with each page half-an-inch broader
than the one before it. Headings are
printed lengthwise so that any subject can
be picked out instantly. The Opportunity
Clubs, by the way, are organised to pro-
vide leisure-time activities that are educa-
tional, cultural, physical and ethical and
are designed to build better citizens.
For the first time in Sydney the
N.S.W. College of Nursing will conduct
a residential conference for Ward Sisters
similar to the conferences held annually
by the Royal College of Nursing,
London. The conference will last for
four days, from February 4 to 8, and
will be held at the Women’s College and
Sancta Sophia College within the Uni-
versity. Various social functions are
being arranged, and the lectures will deal
with ward administration, personnel
management and the training of student
nurses. Anyone who is interested to
attend the conference should get in touch
with the N.S.W. College of Nursing, 171
Macquarie-street.
_ ..
From Melbourne
The little country town of Berwick was
very busy last weekend, for members of
the Australian Women Pilots’ Associa-
tion flew there for their annual meeting,
Plans were discussed for the formation
of a R.A.A.F. Women’s Reserve Pilots
Auxiliary to co-operate in an emergency
Mrs. R. G. Casey was one of the 11
members of the Victorian branch of the
association who flew visitors to this, their
first annual meeting, which was held at
Mrs. Casey’s home. Two inter-State
members of the association are now fly-
ing as commercial pilots; they are
Margaret Clarke (W.A.), who is flying
with medical services, and Nancy Ellis,
who is with a cargo-transport firm in
Sydney. The latter is the only woman
in Australia with a first-class radio-
operator’s ticket. Other members flew
their own planes from all over Victoria.
Joy Turpin, the attractive English
actress who will play lead in 4 Kiss Me,
Kate,” which opens early next month at
His Majesty’s, had her first leading role
iji “Canssima” at London’s Pala.cc
Theatre—the theatre in which her mother
danced for the last time before she
retired from the stage. Educated in
France and Germany, Joy served three
years in the W.A.A.F. After the war
she did a year’s training in dramatic art
at the same school where Sir Laurence
Olivier trained, and later did a year with
the Oxford Rep. In pantomimes she has
played both principal boy and girl.
Married to David Morgan Davies, she
has one child.
Joyce, second daughter of Mrs. G.
McClelland and the late W. B.
McClelland, came from Brisbane, where
she lived, with her mother to be married
at St. John’s Chuch, East Melbourne.
Bridegroom was Frederick Bowen
Fellowes, elder son of Air-Commodore
and Mrs. Frank Lukis, of Canterbury.
Father B. O’Regan officiated. Of white
and silver French brocaded lame, the
bride’s gown had a high neckline and
long sleeves, the full skirt falling into a
circular train. A silver embroidered lace
cap held her fingertip tulle veil, and she
carried cream waterlilies. Her sister, Mrs.
Stan Patch, was matron-of-honor, and
Paula Egan and Patricia McClelland were
bridesmaids. To their strapless frocks of
silver-grey tulle over primrose tulle they
added stoles of grey tulle which were
caught in front at the neckline. Matching
their bouquets of lemon-tinted waterlilies
and ivy leaves were coronets of ivy leaves
in their hair. Robert Lukis was his
brother’s best man and groomsmen were
Des Fitzgerald and Peter Gray. Recep-
tion was at No. 14 Queen’s-road.
A book to add to this month’s library
list is The Foundling, whose author is
Francis, Cardinal Spellman. This is the
story of a maimed and wounded soldier,
wandering through the streets of New
York, who at last finds himself in the
candle-lit quiet of a great cathedral, and,
kneeling before a Christmas crib, hears
the frail whimpering of a child. With
kindly wisdom and humor, a deep and
tolerant understanding, the story of the
unwanted child and the soldier develops,
and people from many creeds and races
come into it. Cardinal Spellman has given
the rights of the book to the New York
Foundling Hospital, which cares for
children without distinction of race, creed
or color. The hospital has, in turn,
donated all royalties earned from the
English edition to the Princess Elizabeth
Day Combined London Appeal which
also cares for orphaned, needy or handi-
capped children of all religious beliefs.
Cardinal Spellman has requested that the
royalties from all other editions of The
Foundling be donated to similar organisa-
tions in their respective countries.
A very hot, sultry morning lured
women into donning sheer frocks and
large picture-hats for the Melbourne
Racing Club’s meeting at Caulfield ; but
by the time they had reached the con
the now-almost-inevitable change o Urse
and cartwheel-hats became a No^ 6
liability. Mrs. Stan Garnsworthv
of the M.R.C. chairman, gave a b' e
luncheon-party which included n/ 86
women. Mrs. Garnsworthy’s picture-? 8
of dove-grey tulle matched her chiff
frock ; her coat was of cherry-red wool 1
Guests included Mrs. Ross Grey Smith
whose beige linen frock was patterned
with black coin-spots and whose natur i
straw hat was trimmed with black velvet*
Mrs. Henry Stebbins (wife of the Us
Consul-General) in filmy white f ro l'
patterned in brown flowers and a small
white cloche ; Mrs. A. Dennett, wearing
a floral silk frock and black picture-haf b
Mrs. W. H. Horsfall, her grey-and-white
spotted silks matched by her straw
hat swathed in chilfon ; Mrs. H. Davies
who wore a cinnamon-brown French
gaberdine suit and matching hat; Mrs
John Reilly, in natural basket-straw hat
and black satin-striped tie-silk frock ■
Mrs. H. Way, whose powder-blue-and-
white-patterned silk frock was topped
with a wide-brimmed navy sailor; and
Mrs. John Cain, in navy silk frock and
a navy straw coolie hat the front of which
carried white guipure lace.
Peterborough, a tiny village on the
ocean coastline, has great charm for those
who live in the Western District. Year
after year the same families go there for
the holidays, and high on the cliffs the
Andrew Chirnsides have built a summer
home. They have been there with their
children, and daughter, Jennifer Austin,
accompanied by her husband and two
children, visited her parents for some of
the holidays, Mr. and Mrs. Warren
Moore’s home was finished just in time
for the family to go into residence.
Visitors at the hotel included Dr. and
Mrs. Frank Stevens with their son Frank,
Mr. and Mrs. O. R. Birdsey and their
daughter Billy of Geelong, Brigadier
Tinsley with his son Michael and
daughter Jane, Mrs. Calvert Senr., the
Norton Grimwades, Mrs. Jean Davies and
her daughter Shirley, and Harold
Armstrong.
An informal “drop-in” party for
intimate friends celebrated the engage-
ment of Janet, only daughter of Mrs.
Frank Harper, of Toorak, and the late
Mr. F. O. Harper, to Geoffrey, elder son
of Dr. and Mrs. Alan Tate, of South
Yarra. Janet, who is a physiotherapist,
is wearing a diamond solitaire ring, and
before the wedding, which will take place
at the end of the year, will go for a trip
to Singapore and Siam with her mother.
When Geraldine Denise, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Gerald
O’Connor, of Brighton, was married to
Trevor, elder son of Mr. and Mrs. E.
Hewlett, of McKinnon, at St. Joan of
Arc’s, Brighton, she wore a gown of
white tulle which had a finely-tucked
bodice and a full skirt which fell into a
train. Her finger-tip tulle veil was caught
with a sequinned Juliet cap, and gardenias
and stephanotis formed the bouquet.
Matron-of-honor Mrs. Leon Lefebvre
wore with her ballerina frock of
brocade a head-hugging cap of matching
material; her bouquet was of Cecil
Brunner roses. The groom’s brother
Mark was best man, and reception was
held at Glendower, Queen’s-road, where
Mrs. O’Connor received her guests in a
dove-grey crepe frock and picture hat of
navy straw softly swathed with veiling.
Mrs. Hewlett added a white jacket to her
blue frock ; her white cloche was trimmed
with matching blue.
Hostess to presswomen was Billie Reii
who, as director of research in a well-
known beauty firm, is making an Aus-
tralia-wide tour. Billie announced that
in honor of the Royal visit her firm w«
introduce “Royal Rose,” a lipstick an
rouge to be worn with the colors favore
during the Royal visit. “Royal Rose 1
a rich red with a shadow of blue, but is
definitely not cyclamen. This lipstick an
rouge were designed to harmonise wi
delicately-patterned pastels as well as
black, white and navy. They may
worn with success by every woman, n°
honey-blonde to gipsy-dark brunette.
The garden of the Staley home *
Brighton was gay with colored bunti
when Grey Staley and his daughter be
O’Connor welcomed Mrs. Grey ota
and younger daughter Valerie back no
from jaunting overseas. Mrs. Staley w
a pretty cigar-brown crepe frock, U ,
a sun-frock of navy linen highlighted
white pique, and Valerie’s Parisian
frock of black linen had a scarlet Ra e
belt. Among the guests were Mrs-
Winch, her son Lieut. Larry y
R.A.N., and his wife Elizabeth, Mi •
Aarons in beige linen, Jass
frock of printed silk, Irene Hub j fl
wore blue linen, and Eileen Hat
soft-grey-and-pink-silk. Overseas g . s
included David Morgan Davies anu
wife (Joy Turpin).


When it's an
Exide—you star?l
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PERfONAL ITEMS
The newly-formed Anarean in Mel-
bourne must be the most exclusive club
in Australia. Its personnel are all
“dally selected members of the Aus-
tralian National Antarctic Research
Pvnedition— hence the title. Membership
restricted to men who have spent at
L st 12 months on Heard or Macquarie
Islands and have made a worth-while
contribution to the success of one of the
expeditions. Fifty members, Australian,
Scotch and English, gathered the other
nieht in Melbourne at the inaugural
dinner and stuffed with chicken 10
potential future members who were leav-
ing on their first expedition to an island
where the fresh meat is mainly penguin-
steak President of the club is P, G. Law,
the black-bearded chief of research.
Elevation to lieutenant-commander in
the Naval Reserve of Kenneth Robert
Hudspeth the other day recalls one of the
quietest (and, at the same time, most
spectacular) jobs ever handled by the
Royal Navy. Hudspeth was one of those
nerveless youngsters who captained the
six X-boats (midget submarines) which
had their go at battleship Tirpitz at
Kaafjord in Norway, in September, 1943.
Hudspeth was about to have his shot at
entering the closely-guarded fjord when
his periscope-motor caught fire. The
cramped craft filled with smoke. Then
his compass failed. Right at the entrance,
blind, he decided to abandon the opera-
tion he’d trained months for, to avoid
compromising his flotilla-mates’ chances.
After a scary 10 days hiding in thickly-
patrolled enemy waters, alerted by what
had happened to Tirpitz, he was finally
recovered by his mother-submarine and
hauled back to base. Owning D.S.C. and
Bar, he hails from Hobart.
Scotsman John Niven will judge Aber-
deen-Angus cattle at the 1952 Sydney
Royal. An Aberdeen-Angus breeder for
more than 30 years, Niven is internation-
ally known among cattlemen as owner of
the Gloagburn stud, Perthshire, Scot-
land, from which a recent sale of four
bulls netted 8800 guineas. Gloagburn
blood runs strongly in the veins of
some of the best Australian Aberdeen-
Angus stock. Niven exhibits as well as
judges—he showed prizewinning stock at
Palermo (Buenos Aires) in 1949, gaining
three championships.
“Trinco”: It is more or less generally
known that Sir Robert Watson-Watt
could, at a pinch, fix a radar-set. On
the more human side —possibly from
association with the speed at which his
radar-waves shoot (some 186,000 miles
per second), he likes fast driving, and is
a familiar sight on the Great West Road
from London to Slough, a tubby, intent
figure peering through spectacles over
the dashboard of a big Daimler. He’s
also a connoisseur of French wines and
cooking, and at the twitch of an aerial
will begin operating on his favorite
hobby—Byzantine art. At the hearing re-
cently before the Lord Chief Justice of
England, which was to decide on Watson-
Watt’s award of £50,000, the scientist
was required to list his inventions. He’d
got to the point where, because men had
become fatigued watching radar-scopes
continuously, he had suggested women
doing the job. Thus came the W.A.A.Fs.
on the scene. The L.C.J.’s eye twinkled.
“You are not claiming, Sir Robert,” he
smiled, “to have invented women as
well?” Dr. Ted Bowen, head of the
radio-physics division of C.5.1.R.0.,
gets £12,000, as does “Skip” Wilkins,
who barely rated a mention in the Aus-
tralian Press, but whose quiet, unassum-
ing competence was beside Watson-Watt
from the beginning, and who was present
when, for the first time in history, a
plane-echo jumped on the scope of a
radar-set.
When any Changi boarder who
came home in the Esperance Bay is asked
if he remembers John Sumner it’s
odds-on he’ll reply in the affirmative.
Then an officer in the Merchant
Navy, Sumner brought hundreds of the
Bth Division home. Now he’s coming
here again; this time as producer-
manager of Melbourne University’s
recently-built Union Theatre. Notice of
the new appointment was waiting for him
just before Christmas, when he brought
his wife back from a belated honeymoon
in Morocco. Sumner stage-managed “A
Streetcar Named Desire” in London
three years ago, when Karis Mond,
daughter of the late Lord Melchett, be-
came his new assistant. Three months
later he took her to the altar. The
young couple have a modern approach to
the stage —they think a university of
10.000 students should produce new
plays, experimental plays, locally-written
plays and classics read within the faculty.
Met in Melbourne, Air Vice-Marshal
James Hardman, C. 8., 0.8. E., D.F.C.,
Australia’s new Air Chief. He started in
the flying game early. When he joined the
R.A.F. he was too young to be allowed
up for his first year, but soon after that
the Kaiser gave him all the flying he
wanted. With Wilhelm finished Hard-
man felt that he hadn’t completed his
education, so put in two years at Oxford
before rejoining the Air Force. In more
senses than one he rose rapidly, in
Hitler’s show climbing from wing-
commander to his present elevation in
six years. Towards the end, in s.-e.
Asia, he was put in command of an air-
detachment which was the first to supply
an army from the air—the job of
organising a force which provided
300.000 soldiers with all their require-
ments. It gained him his C.B.
Recreation —racehorses. He hopes to
buy one.
Wing-Commander Michael George
Cowan, who has been given leave from
the R.A.A.F. and flown to England to
be Australian equerry to Princess
Elizabeth and the Duke, married into a
family which is no stranger to the equerry
business. His grandfather-in-law was
General James Gordon, one-time Com-
mandant of Australia’s Garrison Artillery
and aide-de-camp to the Earl of Kintore
when he was Governor of South
Australia.
EDWARD MICHAEL HANLON,
for close on six years Premier of
Queensland. Lusby’s likeness was
drawn shortly before he died.
A bursary under the Imperial Rela-
tions Trust goes to H. McC. Studholme,
agricultural-editor of Christchurch Press,
New Zealand. He’ll go home to have a
look at what British farmers are doing
to increase production, and how this will
affect the Fernland’s meat-export trade.
A native of Southland, Studholme spent
most of his journalistic life in the Flat
City, except for six months as aide-de-
camp to the Governor of Fiji, and a
stretch with the Navy in War 11.
The diligent alertness caught by Prior
in this drawing of Harold Adams helps to
explain Adams’s recent elevation to the
general-managership of Manufacturers’
Mutual Insurance, in Sydney.
Born at Sydney’s Snail’s Bay, on
whose now-industrialised shores his
grandfather was the first to settle when
the landscape was grass instead of con-
crete, Adams joined his firm the year
War I ended, and had a big hand in
reorganising it after War 11. Accountant
MANACER, MANUFACTURERS'
MUTUAL.
to a staff of five then, he now has some
350 on the payroll. Member of the Royal
Prince Alfred Yacht Club, Adams is at
home on or in the harbor—which was
fortunate for a young lady who fell
overboard from a boat off Snail’s Bay one
winter’s night. Adams swam out and got
her ashore —getting, as well, the Bronze
Medal of the Royal Humane Society. A
bouncy 55, with the energetic intelli-
gence of the self-made businessman.
Shifting from G.O.C. Eastern Com-
mand to another eastern command,
General Sir Gerald Templer takes over
the Malayan High Commissionership
with experience of post-War-II military
government to back him. He’s well up
in Intelligence as well, having had the
Directorship of Military Intelligence for
two years after directing the military go-
emment of the British 21st Army Group
in Germany. Commander of the Second
Corps in the War II Mediterranean (then,
at 44, the youngest lieut.-general in the
British Army), he’d packed his kitbag
with experience ranging from the Kaiser’s
show, north-west Persia and Meso-
potamia, and operations in Palestine in
1936 which brought him D.S.O. and Bar.
With 36 of his 53 years in uniform, he’s
a Sandhurst man, son of a colonel.
“C. 8.”: Just-dead Dr, W. G. Price,
former Melbourne City organist, was a
brilliant musician, but was as little used
as the enormous instrument at the Town
Hall, which was as excellent an organ as
he was an organist. Born in Essex, he
was assistant-organist at Ely Cathedral
at 17, and city-organist at Belfast at 19.
He was in charge of Melbourne’s musical
white elephant for 25 years, but his
beautiful recitals were never well
attended. He retired at 65 and took to
the piano ; that solaced him for the next
17 years.
“Macnell”: Captain Guy Griffith, who,
as a debriefing officer of carrier Glory
(Korea-bound), correlates the reports of
returning pilots, is one of the few Royal
Marines to wear pilot’s wings. The first
British airman shot down in Hitler’s war,
he was hovering around in a Skua
fighter when merchantman Athenia was
torpedoed a few hours after Britain
declared war. The Marine near-
missed with bombs —the submarine
made no mistake with its machine-
guns. Taken aboard, Griffith was
soon afterwards subjected to a
bombardment by made-in-Britain depth-
charges, destroyers of the Home Fleet
having contacted the fleeing sub. She
sat on the bottom while her genial cap-
tain entertained his captive with a gramo-
phone. Griffith found when he got to
Germany that he was looked upon, in
his strange uniform, as something of a
freak. So much so that he was taken
before Goring and later the carpet-eater
himself. Altogether he dwelt in 18
prison-camps, among them that stalag of
Paul Brickhill’s The Great Escape; and
was, in fact, being a bit of an artist, the
forger who supplied the escapees with
their passports and other phony litera-
ture.
The muscle behind the muscle of the
North Shore (Sydney) Rowing Club,
which will conduct the 116th Anniversary
Day Regatta on Lane Cove River
next Saturday, captain Allan Thornton
and coach John Gregory have been row-
ing almost since they were in triangular
trousers. One of the best-known oarsmen
in Sydney, a still-husky six-footer with
a paragraph of titles in his rowlock,
Thornton is busy coaching the club’s
newly-formed heavyweight senior eight
for the day, Clubmate Gregory, born in
Czechoslovakia, lived in Hungary till he
migrated to Australia 13 years ago
Holder of 22 international titles, he was
the champion sculler of Europe in 1929
(raced in North Italy), but reckons his
best-remembered is the 51-mile endurance
race his boat won on the Danube just
before War 11. Gregory was stroke of
the Budapest crew which pulled the
distance in seven hours 22 minutes, with
five minutes’ rest throughout. The train-
ing programme was a 30-mile non-stop
pull twice a week for eight weeks. The
North Shore club dates from 1879, the
year before The Bulletin made its bow
in Sydney.
In 1949 James Stanley Disney led the
Olympic delegation to Rome ; he returned
to Melbourne with the 1956 Games in
his bag. The Reaper has prevented his
seeing their actuality. A City Father for
13 years. Lord Mayor of Melbourne for
three years from 1948, Disney had a war
record as colorful as it was honorable.
Landing on Gallipoli at 19, he later
transferred from Flanders mud to the
A.F.C., and with cobbers Murray Jones,
Harry Cobby and “King” Cole flew
SEs’s in No. 2 Scout Squadron. Back
in Melbourne in 1919, he opened a small
motor business, which now employs close
on 100 people. A practising motorman,
he won, among other races, the Phillip
Island 200-mile TT, flew regularly with
the Aero Club and still held his pilot's
licence at the end. In the Legislative
Council for six years, he sat opposite his
father, a Labor stalwart who had been
there 33 years. The son rose Sir James
in 1951.
In Melbourne again, Lord Nuffield
supplied a clue to the tendency of his
benefactions to lean towards surgery and
medicine. As a boy he had a passionate
desire to have the manipulative skill of a
surgeon, but lacked the money. So he
did the next-best thing—he became a
mechanic. His election to the Honorary
College of Surgeons is one of his most-
prized honors. It was awarded to him
for his monetary services expressed in
the £lO million Nuffield Foundation for
furthering medicine and science.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, on the eve of starting on
a recently-awarded Commonwealth Literary
Fellowship, Victor Kennedy, poet and author.
The Fellowship job was the completion of an
interpretative biography of Bernard O’Dowd.
Born at Eaglehawk (Vic.), Kennedy was the
author of four volumes of poetry and two
travel-books, as well as literary essays and
short stories, and was president of the Aus-
tralian Literature Society and a foundation
member of the Bread and Cheese Club.
In Melbourne, at 77, Charles Henry Holmes,
former principal of Stott’s Business College,
who taught Pitman’s shorthand to thousands.
In Sydney, at 84, Richard Vowell, one-time
chief-engineer of public works m N.S.W.,
director of national and local-government works
and president of the Hunter District Water
Suddlv and Sewerage Board. Well known in
the Grafton and Tenterfield (N.S.W.) districts
where he raced horses with C.P.-leader Colonel
Bruxner, Vowell had much to do with pioneer
engineering work, being associated with New-
castle and Port Kembla harbor construction
as well as the Hume Dam and Murray River-
works For the past 15 years he had practised
with a leading Sydney firm of consulting-
engineers.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
y Dhi-'6a£-6£.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
King Street, Sydney.
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass anc *
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Si 9 hts,
Prismatic Compasses.
f
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ \2\% Sales Tax
ƒ
AND SONS
PTY LTD.:
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
Stock-breeding Systems.
“Outback”: In a provocative
address to the English National
Veterinary Medical Association,
Professor M. M. Cooper, of Wye
College, said adaptability was
possibly more important in
stock selection than was
generally realised. Genetics, he
contended, had progressed at
least to the point that when an
animal was used for breeding it
transmitted only a sample half
of its inheritance, and this might
be a good or a bad sample,
according to chance.
Yet breeders complacently be-
lieved that a cow which had
inherited a high-sounding name
through a long pedigree should
be retained for breeding in
preference to more productive
cows which lacked fashionable
family names. This, said Pro-
fessor Cooper, was just as logi-
cal as attributing all the good
points of one’s daughter to a
great-great-grandmother-in-law.
Under the system by which
emphasis on family names grew
up, there was no measure of
production in beef cattle except
eye appraisal, while in sheep the
only measure was outside experi-
mental flocks. Family nomencla-
ture was meaningless when wide
outcrosses had been practised.
Even with precise production-
figures, such as in dairy herds
tested for milk or butterfat, per-
formances were not reliable
guides to selection unless allow-
ance was made for environment.
A good performance did not
necessarily mean a capacity to
transmit factors for high pro-
duction ; the significance of this
was only now being realised by
the more progressive breeders.
It was possible that when a stud-
breeder was “steaming-up” his
cows, feeding them heavily on
concentrates and milking them
three times daily, he was select-
ing cattle which were not
attuned to the rough and tumble
of dairyfarms, where cows were
fed largely on bulks and were
milked twice daily at uneven
intervals. He asked if this did
not raise the question whether
stud-breeders were endeavoring
to breed animals which were too
good for the environment which
could be provided.
Professor W. C. Miller said
it was the strong conviction of
many stud-breeders that the
animals they bred left progeny
far superior to those from
animals bred under normal
environmental conditions. There
was much to commend stud-
breeders developing animals for
an environment which would
encourage them to develop to
full advantage.
A research - officer present
suggested that by 12 months of
greatly - improved management
and feeding as much could be
accomplished as by 20 years of
grading-up the national herd,
though it was necessary to do
that also. .
Professor Cooper, in reply,
said the success of hybrid maize.
developed through the crossing
of inbred strains, had inspired a
new approach by geneticists,
particularly in the U.S.A., to the
problem of raising animal pro-
ductivity. The aim was to pro-
duce lines not so much for their
individual merit but for their
combining power in matings to
produce commercial stock. Such
methods, however, were more
appropriate to species with a
high rate of reproduction, such
as pigs and poultry, than to
cows and sheep.
Speeding Up Breeding.
“Sheep-mug”: A little of
what scientists like the Cam-
bridge expert, Dr. Neil Yeates,
reported on by “Loulalo” (B.
26/12/’5l), have done to speed
up breeding can sometimes come
about by sheer luck. We (three
women) run fewer than 100 sheep
as a sideline on a small Vic-
torian mixed farm. In 1950,
from April to June, we raised
39 lambs from about 50 ewes,
Merino and Dorset Horn-
Merino cross. It was a couple
of months after lambing before
“He’s beggin' for it real nice now.”
we could get a man to remove a
lusty young Dorset Horn ram;
on performance the aged
Merino, a gift, wasn’t worth
bothering over. By September
, She l ring theT f ™? re tWO new
lambs, one of which died, and
the other, with the 20 other sub-
sequent lambs which survived
the feed shortage of a particu-
iady hot and dry summer,
wasn’t marked until late
summer, and so sired about as
many of the June-August, 1951,
crop of 27 lambs as did the old
Merino (I know this was poor
S ? eep husbandry, but circum-
sta i? es£orc ; dlt ° n us -),
The numbers of each lambing
sugge j’ t that or more ewes
J’ I
LntL in nnl .Li ’ 5 16
LL v i K f a drOVC
born one to be suckled, so that
ewe at least raised two in the
period.
In such seasons as we had,
on a holding where circum-
stances prevent full attention
being given to sheep, this un-
usual increase wasn’t economic.
Too many lambs, particularly of
the unplanned second crop, died
and too many weren’t first-
grade, but it does show what
could be achieved by well-
planned experiment.
Lea Farming.
“L.F.”: If wheat-land needs
a spell it’s sheer waste to let it
go out to undisturbed fallow or
natural pasture.
Such pasture usually consists
for a few years of saffron-
thistle or cape-weed, with a thin
stand of barley- or silver-grass
or some other winter-grass
which dries up quickly in spring
and provides no summer feed.
A paddock sown with Wim-
mera-rye grass and sub.-clover,
put in cheaply with a few
pounds of seed with the wheat
seeding, provides excellent
winter and spring grazing and
good summer feed in normal
seasons.
In some parts of N.S.W.
experiments have shown the
carrying-capacity of pasture-lea
to be up to three times that of
natural or volunteer pasture
alongside it.
At Rutherglen Research
Station (Vic.), after five years
of each kind of pasture, the land
was again sown to wheat, and
an increased yield of nearly two
bags an acre was obtained.
“C.A.A.”: Tests at Ruther-
glen by Victorian Department of
Agriculture showed that soil-
fertility can be restored by sow-
ing sub. clover and allowing the
paddock to remain under good
clover pasture for some years.
When fertility has been so raised
cereal cropping may be resumed
and two or three crops grown in
succession.
Under Rutherglen conditions
(annual rainfall 22in.) winter
fallowing can be stopped unless
used to beat weeds. After crop-
ping for a few years the pad-
dock should go back to sub.
clover, if necessary sowing 21b.
per acre of clover with the last
cereal crop.
Clover-lea farming is particu-
larly suited to mixed-farming
districts where conditions favor
sub. clover; that is, where bulk
of the rainfall is spread over
autumn, winter and spring
seasons.
Lucerne in Victoria.
“Mr.”: Under favorable con-
ditions a lucerne stand will re-
main productive for 10 years or
more. Lucerne will grow on a
wide range of soils, but not
where there is a hardpan or clay
sub-soil close to the surface, nor
will it persist in wet or acid
soils.
The seed-bed, firm and clean,
is best prepared after a period
of fallow. The legume does best
when sown on its own, and 61b.
to 81b. of seed an acre is suffi-
cient. For a good strike and
strong early growth a warm,
moist soil is essential. Best time
to sow is after the first autumn
break. Sow no deeper than yin.
in light soils and yin. to yin. in
medium to heavy soils.
Twin Animals.
“Shadow - chaser”: Twin
lambs occur frequently among
British breeds, comparatively
rarely among Merinos and other
close-woolled breeds. Triplets
are not so rare as to be remark-
able, but I have seen only one
set of quads. Twin lambs stick
closer than ordinary brothers,
but speedily forget each other,
each taking his own road
through life as far as circum-
stances permit.
Twin calves retain their
affinity until death, sometimes
eating and drinking and resting
together if permitted to do so.
When driven they walk side-by-
side and resent any interference
or insult by any other member
of the herd.
Wheat-crop Champions.
“Mr.”: Mallee wheat-crop
championship this year was won
by F. J. Hofmaier, Rosebery,
with a crop of Pinnacle and
Insignia which averaged almost
40 bushels per acre. Second was
R. J. Bartram, Nullawil, with
Insignia, and third and fourth
were R. F. lessee, Swan Hill,
and W. J. Mclnerney, Sea Lake.
Both had Insignia averaging
around 37 bushels.
Northern Wimmera champion
was B. and G. Kendall, Charl-
ton, with Insignia which
averaged 47.6 bushels; second
was A. K. McKenzie, with
Quadrat.
ludge H. L. Hore (Victorian
Department of Agriculture) said
that although Charlton district
won the competition by a com-
fortable margin, crops in leparit,
Warracknabeal, Donald and
Nhill districts were all of high
standard. This year’s yield was
the best for three seasons.
Lime for the Garden.
“Calcium”: While most
garden plants and vegetables
grow best on soils which are
not acid, some, such as azaleas,
rhododendrons and straw-
berries, like a particularly acid
soil.
Plants of high lime require-
ment are onions, beetroot, celery,
lettuce, cabbage, cauliflower,
silver beet and most leafy vege-
tables. Those of low lime
requirement are potatoes.
tomatoes, cucumber, purnoV,*
and marrows, watermelons 2
lawn grasses. In the intermedia!
class are broad-beans, pren h
beans, sweet corn, carrots nar
nips, turnips and other Vw
crops. ot
This points to the fact that
instead of the ritual of li m j n at
the whole garden some discr
tion should be practised in th
application, according to the
vegetables to be grown.
For those who have to deal
with the heavy soils of the Syd-
ney area and their puggy clay at
a shallow depth, repeated heavy
doses of organic matter left to
rot on top of the soil will
gradually turn the raw clay into
soil of good tilth to a deeper
and deeper level, and avoid an
excess of lime.
To Stop Poisoning.
“A-Jay”: Loss from blood-
poisoning in lambing ewes and
marked lambs may be greatly
reduced, if not eliminated, by
vaccinating the ewes with black-
leg vaccine about a fortnight be-
fore lambing. As the immunity
which passes from the ewes to
the lambs in the first milk does
not persist for many weeks, the
lambs should be marked early.
For best results divide the
ewes into early- and late-lambers,
which should be vaccinated sepa-
rately to ensure that all ewes are
vaccinated from 10 to 20 days
before lambing. Where possible,
ewes should lamb in clean,
spelled paddocks, and lambs
should always be marked in
clean, temporary yards.
Beetroot.
“Hortus”; Some growers are
having trouble in germination.
The large, corky seeds are
peculiar. Each seed is really a
collection of several seeds. It’s
best to soak the seed overnight
before planting, especially if it’s
a dry spell. It takes some time
to soak through the cork outer
cover.
If surface-soil is dry and
light-textured plant seed deep
to reach moisture. If surface-
soil is damp plant seed shallow,
lin. is enough. Space seed about
lin. apart in the rows. Thin
out as soon as possible. Keep
water up to young plants until
well established. Keep weeds
down. Don’t hill up.
Rearing Calves.
“Springvale”: As a general
rule they should be bucket-fed
until between five and six
months old, but if good paddock
feed is available calves at
slightly younger ages, down to
4i months, if well grown, may
safely be weaned at this time of
year.
Good meadow or luceme-hay
is best to supplement pasture for
growing stock. Concentrates
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The recent relief rains were a combination of the early
January rains from the long 71-year cycle, and the shorter
36-year as well. In the Tropic the wet season seems to
have begun, as was forecast as likely, and about the third
week of January some heavier falls are probable. Further
south these should not be heavy, though they are to be
expected. In the southern States only very light rain (if
any) is likely.
The recent heatwave fitted in with the long cycle, and
indicates that although there may be a good deal of heat
ahead it will not be so severe.


Telephone Cable
f
f
Drums containing one
continuous mile length
of DON 8 Telephone
Cable. Strong tensile
strength. Brand new.
Ideal for outside use.
Per Mile,
F. 0.8.
Weight
approx. 60Ibs.
Immediate Delivery Ex Stock
M. RUTTY & CO. PTY. LTD.
Australia House, Carrington Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BX 3094.
Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not
revised your Will to
meet to-day’s condi-
t ion s, the conse-
quences may be seri-
ous for someone
who depends on you.
Your responsibility
to that someone is
too important to
justify delaying until
some to-morrow that
may never come.
|| <»S=rl *4-J.4TC
mehseme
IF
mm
MUMS
ffc' *• *
l£l*i SEI ft l C'|L.
f&i £T/ f< t'Jifi
k=. i EJ d k.nlti
Why not have a confidential talk
with one of our Senior Officers on the
subject of the appointment of the Com-
pany as your Executor and Trustee—
alone or jointly with a relative or
friend.
He will help you to provide for the
efficient and economical settlement of
your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step
of having your Solicitor redraw your
Will, should then be a simple matter.
If you would have particulars of the
services offered by the Company write
(or, ring B 0377) and make an
appointment.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £ 70,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH & ORANGE.
IMPORTANT
LAND AUCTION
On the property 6 miles from
Birchip, Vic., on the main
Birc h i p / Warracknabeal and
Watchem Roads.
Thursday, January 31, 1952,
at 2.1 5 p.m.
ACRES i
1648 FREEHOLD 1648
Known as
“MORTON PLAINS” ESTATE
1600 SHEEP 1600
comprising ewes, various ages,
young wethers and weaners, all
of which will be drafted for age,
type and condition.
For further particulars and right
to inspect, apply:
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Eng.)
Melbourne and Branches
ELDER SMITH & CO. LTD.,
Warracknabeal, Melbourne and
Branches
R. E. WARNE & SONS, Birchip
H. G. TAYLOR, Birchip
(AGENTS IN CONJUNCTION, for
the Executors of the late James P.
Kensley)
THE HI
WfRESTR
ano reMoe/f
& TOUGH ENOUGH
FOR ANY WIRE .
• SMALL ENOUGH FOR
THE HIP POCKET...
HIPPO —the mighty midget that
will break 8-g. fencing wire, (
strains indefinitely without biting **
Weighs only 21bs., folds to fit in
hip pocket. Mighty leverage,
simple to use, nothing to wear out.
55''
Plus
Postage
MANNING & OSBORNE
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
rf'T"'
ifc
.
J
V
Ik
f
ra
i
*> «*»«,
mif for
“PHENOVIS”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ƒ
■ PHE.7.X.18
Smryfasr/
You can relax and enjoy your outings when you
know your family, your car and you are safe.
Safety depends on more than careful, considerate
driving—it depends on car condition —on tyres.
The best tyres are the safest— that means Goodyear
Tyres. For 36 years it has been true that more
people, the world over, ride on Goodyear Tyres than
on any other make. This is a remarkable tribute
to their long wear, comfort and safety. See your
Goodyear Dealer and remember, it is worth
waiting for Goodyear Tyres.
enjoy safe holiday motoring on
GOODYEAR
TYRES
and for greater safety
™5 ?£!%S
Check pressures regularly.
Change tyre position every 2,000 or
3,000 miles to equalize wear.
Inspect tyres regularly—have small
cuts repaired early.
Check wheel alignment and balance.
Drive moderately—speed kills tyres.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
ren’t necessary for calves over
• months old when plenty of
SIX d roughage and pasturage
g ° available. Concentrates
to fatten rather than assist
owth Under Victorian condi-
gf « where it is desirable to
tlOI L’ heifers at 15 months old
f l 3 calve at two years old, the
hifers should be as mature as
ossible This is best achieved
hv feeding good meadow- or
lucerne-hay as a supplement to
nasture.
P During their first autumn or
winter, when the heifers are a
vear off calving, they should be
fed up to 31b. of good grass-
hav per head daily, with average
seasonal pasture. During the
second autumn and winter, when
they should be springing, they
will require up to 61b. of good
nasture hay per head daily to
maintain normal growth.
Normally springing heifers
reauire 61b. per day for not more
than two months, and about
31b. per day for another two
months, or, estimating annually,
each springing heifer would re-
quire 3cwt. of hay and each
yearling heifer of hay.
These quantities could be taken
as a minimum for young stock
in working out a fodder-conser-
vation programme.
7
Pasture Trials.
“Agric”: A continuous stock-
ing-rate of two bullocks to the
acre was maintained throughout
1950 on permanently-irrigated
pastures at Gatton College, and
at June, 1951, there was a
definite increase in stand and
pasture growth compared with
June, 1950.
In the latest trial, eight 30-
month-old bullocks were grazed
on four acres of irrigated
pastures from February to May
and an average daily gain of
l£lb. was recorded. A trial has
begun with eight bullocks to
test their performance over the
winter months in comparison
with four closely-similar bullocks
left to graze under natural con-
ditions in the fattening pad-
docks at Esk from which the
other eight were purchased.
The Bureau of Investigation
considers that in the event of
irrigated pastures being found
suitable for beef-fattening the
most desirable method would be
to obtain young beasts between
8001 b. and 9001 b. liveweight, and
to top them off in not more than
three months.
The trials so far have been
aimed primarily at testing the
pastures under grazing, and the
bureau says the permanently-
irrigated pastures were improved
by grazing.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: Weather - proof
stacks of baled hay can be
achieved by keeping the edges
straight and upright and binding
the bales in each tier. A rect-
angular stack is preferable to a
square one. Building to a roof
or gable is essential, and wire-
netting can be used to advantage
to hold the topping material in
position. Sheets of iron can be
used effectively to roof a flat-
topped stack in the open. Place
loose hay over the last layer of
bales so as to taper from the
layer of bales on one side to
bale thickness on the other.
Place sheets of iron on the top,
allowing a few inches overhang.
“Springvale”; January is not
too late to make a final plant-
ing of late varieties of tomato
seedlings in warmer Victorian
districts, where vine vegetables
can still be planted, though their
yield will be lighter than that of
earlier plantings. In most
districts, except the Mallee,
French- and butter-beans can
be planted up to the beginning
of February.
“M.”: Victorian cheese fac-
tories are having trouble with
penicillin in milk from cows
being treated for mastitis, the
substance retarding the growth
of starter bacteria. Farmers are
being asked by the Victorian
Department of Agriculture to
keep all milk from treated
udders out of the factory milk-
supply for at least four milk-
ings (two days) after the last
treatment.
“Ajax”: It’s unnecessary to
place a water-tank 2ft. clear of
the wall (B. 26/12/’5l). For a
corrugated-iron tank Ift. is
ample space and 1 Sin. for a
square tank. This allows easy
access either to tank or wall.
“Myrrhee”: Young fruit-
trees are mostly planted in
winter or early spring in soil
well supplied with moisture, but
don’t forget that the stripling’s
root system has scarcely begun
growth and will wither and die
in summer unless well watered.
Help the tree by keeping a circle
of about 6ft. or so in diameter
free of weed growth around it
during summer and deeply
straw-mulching the area.


Fly by “Kangaroo” Service
N ° days to
EUROPE
by Qantas-8.0.A.C. Constellation
Fastest and finest by far, the QANTAS-8.0.A.C.
all-Constellation service to Europe flies you direct in
just 3 days—with super service at your command all the
way. You can save precious time on a speedy business
trip—or take it easy on stop-overs anywhere en route.
And all Europe is so easy to reach —there’s an alterna-
tive route across the Continent from Rome to London
with stop-overs at Geneva and Paris —at no extra fare.
Fly by dependable QANTAS-8.0.A.C. pressurised
Constellation —no change of ‘planes—see East and
West on one trip. No currency problems—con-
venient currency coupons make it easy to buy souvenirs
and enjoy recreation.
f
De-luxe cabin service—2
stewards and a hostess.
Restful all-night stop at
famous Raffles Hotel,
Singapore.
m
I
Stop-over anywhere en
route —no extra fare.
Regular route via Calcutta—alternative via
5 services weekly. See your travel agent.
Colombo.
a ANT AS BOM
QANTAS EMPIRE
BRITISH
AIRWAYS LTD.
OVERSEAS
(Inc. in Queensland) in parallel with
AIRWAYS CORPORATION
THERE IS ALWAYS
A BEST"
3--;
m
':K
V*
i' V.
if I
% >:
a
Longines Watches are made in their
entirety by craftsmen whose fathers,
grandfathers, and even great-
grandfathers, have been skilled
watchmakers in the Longines Fac-
tory at Saint-Imier, Switzerland,
since its foundation in 1867.
'y/ / ot/c£
Sole Wholesale Distributors *
Segal & Co, ( Est . 1890), Sydney and Melbourne
SMOKE-OH!
“The trim female figure is an asset.”
—Melbourne “Argus.”
In fact, a credit to any
company.
4* *J*
“It was impossible for me to defend
myself, for his violent blows sent me
to the ground unconscious.”
—Plaintiff in assault case.
Obviously he didn’t feel up to
the knocker.
4* 4*
“Sydney girls have a hard, worldly
expression on their faces from an
early age.”— Women’s paper.
Especially those who are
looking for a heavenly time.
“Attractive widows are dynamite.”
—Psychology article.
A charge that cannot be
exploded.
•i* *
“I approve of short skirts for
women. It gives them a better
carriage.”
—Correspondent in Sydney “D.T.”
Provided it runs on good
lines.
You Experts, You!
O you unique but universal you.
You bleating yous of all the
human flock.
You are the ones -who must be
listened-to;
You’re never out of step —or
out of stock !
You are the usurers, the bankers
who
Lend me your ears at a much
lower rate
Of interest than I return to you
When I unwillingly reciprocate.
What mind-usurping mobs there
are of you.
United tight from Europe round
to Asia
In one desire —to tell me what
to do !
O you! O eulogy! O
euthanasia !
Ladies and gentlemen, another
speaker
May seek your virtue out. Not
I. Eureka!
NEIL MILLAR.
If They’d Had Commercial
Radio in Richard I’s Day.
“This is Station Three G.G.,
and the time, by courtesy of
Dogsbody Proprietory, makers
of the famous Krunchykorn, the
Empire’s favorite breakfast
cereal, is almost eight fourteen
and a quarter. Do you know
that one plateful of Krunchy-
korn is equal in calorie value to
six dozen eggs, half a bullock or
a bag of oysters and a barrel of
stout? One small plateful
would ensure you sufficient
strength to kill single-handed a
company of Saracens, swim the
English Channel, climb the
Cheviots or force your way
through a press of women in a
bargain basement.
“And speaking of- bargains,
here is one the intending
Crusader simply must be m on
—suits of chain-mail going at
Telfridge’s at less than cost
price. These are manufacturer’s
seconds, the only fault being that
the weave is slightly more open,
which might allow a sword to
penetrate the interstices. But
they are genuinely rust-proof,
bash-proof and burr-proof, have
welded joints and copper-riveted
sleeves, and will give everlast-
ing wear—and, remember, each
suit is underlined with mosquito-
proof wire.
“Other bargains you can’t
afford to miss are crew-neck
singlets in a beautiful mercerised
soft sheet-steel and a really
snappy line of wrought-tin
jockey-style underpants both
lines well below manufac-
turer’s costs. You’ll have to
be early to get your share
of the thirty - thousand -
pounds’-worth of savings which
Telfridges are offering—doors
open at nine-five tomorrow, so
be there bright and early. Now,
here is Bynge Crozbie singing
this week’s top hit-parade num-
ber : ‘Why Shouldn’t She
Know About Infidelity, Ain’t
She An Infidel?’
“We interrupt this broadcast
to make an important announce-
ment. The Rush Lamp Commis-
“Want a GOOD job done, son?”
sion advises that there will be
blackouts in Zone A tomorrow,
spilling over into Zones B, C, D
and E.
“Ding-dong-ding. This is
Station Three G.G., and the
time has moved on to eight
thirty-three by courtesy of
Dogsbody’s, manufacturers of
Krunchykorn, the Empire’s
favorite breakfast cereal.
M-m-m, it tastes good—it is
good. It builds pygmies into
giants. Remember, on even a
saucerful of Krunchykorn you
could wrestle Ike Pinchoff for
twenty rounds or chop down
half a forest —it possesses the
same vitamin-content as a ton
of codfish.
“Here is a sports newsflash
just to hand. Fred Barbarossa,
the brilliant German swordster
who is joining the team going
to Palestine shortly, set new
figures by skewering four
opponents in the great time of
six minutes ten seconds during
a workout yesterday. A great
boy, Fred!
“Are you tired of your old
battle-axe? This doesn’t refer to
your wife, of course—ha, ha!
But why not trade your old axe
in for the latest genuine drop-
forged, streamlined model with
a spring-cane handle, available
at Glurbles’ for only eighty-nine
and elevenpence? With special
hollow-ground edge, this latest
style is guaranteed by the makers
to cut cleanly through the cervi-
cal vertebrae of the toughest
Seljukian Turk—if it fails to do
so your money will gladly be
refunded. It is warranted free
from knots, splits, shakes, air-
bubbles and borers. Available
in all sizes at Glurbles’, in the
Strand.
“Complementary to these, and
offered at the same keen prices,
are genuine Steelo swept-back-
type shields. Tailored exclusively
by one of England’s most pro-
gressive blacksmiths, it curves
sweetly into the elbow, which is
protected with an extra layer of
iron—after all, no Crusader
would consider it worth while
coming back from fighting the
infidel Turks if he had no elbow
to bend. Protect your elbow
with a genuine Steelo shield.
Those who wield their battle-
axe southpaw fashion haven’t
been overlooked—Glurbles have
ample stocks of shields to fit
the right arm. And don’t forget
—Glurbles’ Steelo shields are
dent-proof as well as moth-
proof, and the special mirror-
finish makes them invaluable for
shaving while on active service.
Now here is Duke Wellington
and his band playing ‘Ah Kain’t
Darn Ma Sox, Baby, Ah Got
No Solder’
“We interrupt this broadcast
to make another important
announcement. The Water
Board advises that owing to the
continued heavy rain house-
holders are expressly forbidden
to fill more than one water-
vessel per day from the com-
munity well on Ludgate Hill.
Any breach of this by-law will
render any person illegally using
the board’s water which he pays
for liable to a fine of two
hundred crowns. Now here is
the blues pop. singer Nellie
Blucher to sing, on Decco
microgroove, ‘Sal ad in the
Paladin, He’ll Cop l t in
Neck. uc
“Well, here is an item of vital
interest to listeners, station
Three G.G., in conjunction with
the makers of the famous Skul
cleeve double-handed sword
have scoured the exclusive right*
of a stroke-by-stroke description
of the Third Test ag S
Saladm’s team. The unit will
accompany the team led jointly
by Richard of England, pjJ
Barbara ssa of Germany and
Philip the Fair of France and
will give a complete coverage of
each day’s fighting.
“Can you afford to be with-
out a Skulcleeve sword? of
course you can’t! You want to
come back to your girl-friend
don’t you? Well, insist o n a
genuine Skulcleeve, the sword
that’s guaranteed to split your
opponent’s dome right through
to the chin. If it doesn’t do
what the makers claim you can
get your money back. Trade-
ins are accepted. Why not make
a lay-by now? Remember the
name — Skulcleeve, the only
double-handed sword on the
market with a self-sharpening
device and a handle with a non-
skid tread. Now, here are the
Four Stinkpots to sing for you
‘My Baby Wears a Canvas Bra
That’s Why She’s Stiff and
Unbendin’.’ ”
BO.
Trouble Shouldered.
I haven’t been my carefree self
of late ;
I’ve been on edge for weeks;
I’ve needed gripping.
I’ve fancied, too, that I’ve been
losing weight.
I’ve entertained a horrid sense
of slipping.
It’s worried me especially in
town,
Around the house —in point of
fact, most places.
But I’ll correct this plague which
drags me down —
With “self - supporting”
trousers I’ll wear braces!
P.O.M.C.


THE OTHER FELOW'S MIND
Schools and Soldiers
The Bulletin and others have pointed
out that an appeal to patriotism would
act better results than the present recruit-
ing campaign, which stresses good pay
and conditions. But why is an expensive
campaign necessary at all? Australia was
in far less immediate danger in 1914 and
1939 than now. Both world wars started
in Europe; the British Navy was prob-
ably the best single combatant force in
the world ; but no bribes were necessary
m brine Australian youth to She recruiting
centres in thousands.
Why don’t they come now?
The lads who are 18 and 19 now were
seven or eight when Clive Evatt became
Minister for Education in N. S. Wales,
and their schooling has been done almost
entirely under the direction of Evatt and
his successor, Heffron. It has been their
policy to remove completely anything
manly or savoring of the military from
N. S. Wales State schools.
Mr. Heffron has lately announced that
the physical-training syllabus was to be
changed to do away with what he called
“The old one-two-throe ‘Army’ style
of p.t.” He intends to substitute some-
thing based on ‘Tree-activity” or “self-
discipline” or some such thing. Army
life is not very attractive to youngsters
who have been raised on that kind of
rubbish.
The effect of this “new education” can
also be seen in other -Slates, but it is in
N. S. Wales that recruiting figures are
most disappointing. I cannot see boys
becoming any more disposed to join the
forces when they grow up while their
teachers are regarded as “old fogeys” if
they insist on their pupils marching into
school or as criminals if they subject the
youngsters to any form of mild discipline.
—Schoolie (N.S.W.).
Save Our Soils
I don’t like “ArbeeV* casual indiffer-
ence to the loss of those millions of tons
of soil lying, a useless waste, on the
bottom of Newcastle harbor (B. 9/1 / ’52).
The dredging of the harbor must be
undertaken, not specifically to save New-
castle as a port (though that will result),
but mainly to recover and return to the
land that wealth, now mere sludge and
slime.
It has been calculated that 1,000,000
cubic yards of silt are washed down the
Hunter each year and deposited in the
harbor at Newcastle or out at sea. That
represents an annual loss of topsoil to
cover an area of one sq. mile to an all-
over depth of one foot. No wonder the
Hunter valley is not nearly as fertile as
it was! And that is but one case. It can
be paralleled (the Namoi valley is an-
other bad example) all over Australia.
River-flow, of course, is only one way
in which Australia’s soil is lost. A lot of
invaluable topsoil has been borne away
on the winds.
, Not strictly erosion, yet representing an
immense loss of the goodness of earth, is
the disposal out to sea of sewage and
other waste. Surely this could be
chemically treated and returned to the
soil.
Erosion is a real threat to Australia —
• »
to the whole of civilisation, in fact.
Aldous Huxley, writing in “Food and
People,” a Unesco pamphlet, described
soil-erosion as “more dangerous to
civilisation than the atom-bomb”;
“Atomic warfare can destroy one
particular civilisation; soil-erosion can
put an end to the very possibility of any
civilisation.”
The future of our land is at stake.
Certainly soil-conservation schemes are
being carried out, but Australia’s very
survival depends on a great deal more
being done. Resources such as are re-
presented by Newcastle’s silt must not be
allowed to remain where they are. We
need them all. —K. R. (N.S.W.).
Fruit-pickers
“O’Johnno’s” jibe about child labor in
Tasmania (B. 12/12/’5l) created a bad
impression of a calling that is mainly run
by battlers trying to scratch out a living
on a few acres of hilly, stony land which,
away from the gullies, would not produce
enough feed for a rationed bandicoot.
I’m referring to small-fruit growers—
blackcurrants, raspberries, loganberries,
etc.
The picking of their fruit is let by
contract, generally to families, at so much
a pound. Contracts are never let to
“Shake it up there. Meadows —my mother
used to dress me quicker than you can.”
children —in fact, growers are not in favor
of young children among their fruit, as
they do a lot of harm to the bushes by
stripping the limbs and destroying the
buds.
Unfortunately the people who follow
this class of work cannot afford to leave
their children home; as pickers have to
supply their own bedding, cooking
utensils, etc., they are forced to take their
children with them.
Calling the growing of small fruit in
Tasmania “a £1,000,000 industry” is more
absurd than expecting “O’Johnno’s”
’varsity students to save the crop without
destroying: the bushes for the production
of next wear’s harvest. — Mulga Mick
(Tas.). '
Roads
Ihe inability of State Governments and
their dependent authorities to cope with
the problem of deteriorating main roads
has many repercussions.
One of the worst features is the cost
to the nation and the individual in repairs
to motor-vehicles. Apart from accidents
(and many of these are attributable to bad
roads) the worsening condition of roads
and bridges is costing owners of motor-
vehicles thousands of pounds a year in
wear and tear on tyres, repairs and re-
placements.
Although these costs are met by the
individual, they are probably passed on to
the public, giving another little upward
shove to the cost of living.— Plain
Australian (Vic.).
Shaw WAS Cruel
As with all human vices, there are
degrees and types of cruelty (B. 9/l/’52).
Like most educated Irishmen, Shaw was
a satirist and/or lampoonist of the
highest order—at times his pen was
vitriolic and his barbs seldom missed —
and as such and in that sense he was
exquisitely and consciously cruel.
Also, Shaw was an undisguised and
incorrigible cynic—nine-tenths of his wit
was censorious—and, stripped of its
intellectual veneer, cultivated cynicism at
best is wilful unkindliness readily passing
for truth.—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Hotels and Tourists
Cashing-in on the tourist trade is a
nice thought (B. 2/1/’52), but there’s no
great prospect of its materialising until
our hotels improve.
A visitor from New York lately booked
a suite in a city hotel and phoned for the
hotel stenographer. There was no such
person. Handing in his laundry he was
told he could not expect it under a week.
Suits that needed press-
ing had to be similarly
booked.
The plain fact is that
our pity hotels provide
little else but a place to
sleep and eat, and in
Victoria it is impossible
to entertain friends and
executives at dinner
after 8 p.m. unless a
special licence is
obtained. Otherwise the
glasses are whisked off
the table and the hint
to go is plain and
obvious. In many
civilised countries
people don’t start to
dine before 8 p.m.
Our country hotels,
with some exceptions,
were built before
internal sewerage was
thought of, and have had to be
adapted.
After a year’s country-hotel experience
I have become cunning. If the old yard-
man is seen stoking the boiler at night,
that’s the time for a shave and bath. If
there is no chair in the bedroom, sneak
quietly into the ladies’ bathroom —there’s
always one there. You need a fly-spray
to frighten the life out of the mosquitoes,
and if the hotel has roosters in the coop
in the backyard, go to bed when they go.
Carry a foot-rule to ensure the window
keeps open, a bit of string to tie the
curtains apart without disturbing the
dust, and a plug of newspaper to stop
window-rattle. A bit of candle is a
handy thing when the engine fails and the
lights go out. And it’s not a bad idea to
carry your own towel.
If you haven’t spent hours phoning one
hotel after the other, be sure to get to the
town early, drink copiously and make
yourself a good fellow with the local
natives while Bung is ascertaining
whether he can accommodate you or not.
Once he says he “will have a look,”
you’re as good as in. There is another
catch. You might have to share “the
only room left.” I struck that, but when
I offered to pay for a double room
another was forthcoming. The dressing-
table had half a brick replacing a leg, and
the door-handle fell off.
Part of our poor hotel accommodation
arises from price-control, apart from the
stupid drinking laws. After analysing
prices of foodstuffs, wages and rising
rents and the like, I am rather inclined
to agree with the publican. He loses
thousands a year on “the house side.”
Why should he divert bar profits to the
dining-room? Big businesses don’t divert
profits from the haberdashery to the
losing delicatessen just to keep it going. -
5 G.R. (Vic.).
The Call
The Call, apparently, is not meeting
with a very good response. The reason
for that is that it is couched in tefms
which make it “just another of those
pieces of rhetoric.” The two injunctions
in which it culminates are quite empty of
meaning for many decent people who
have a worth-while contribution to
make to the community if they are
appealed to on practical grounds in
modern terms.
I, for one, do not fear God, but choose,
rather, to love Him, and love casteth
out fear. The idea of a God of wrath,
a jealous God, has always seemed to me
a belittling of the Divinity and a survival
of primitive mythological times. Savages
fear and propitiate their gods.
So fear of God is out as a motive for
my actions ; neither do I try to behave
decently with any idea of “honoring the
King.” I certainly don’t dishonor him,
nor do I feel either disrespectful or
unfriendly towards him, but the phrase
is just entirely meaningless to me.
How can The Call be attuned to the
ears of people like myself? By appeal-
ing in the plainest, most direct terms to
our self-respect and consciences, for the
men and women at whom The Call is
aimed have both. Those who haven’t
will, in any case, be even deafer to the
“higher” Call.
A modem version of The Call must be
sent forth, with no elegance and plenty
of punch. Our rhetoric must be brought
up to date and old truths stated in new
words. Why go on using the age-old
ploughshares? It is because the churches,
all of them, persist in doing so that they
have failed humanity in its hour of need.
Children grow away from parents who
remain too old-fashioned. — Mrs. H. L.
(S.A.).
Municipal Councils
Most ratepayers know that council and
road-board expenses are higher and that
rates must rise (B. 26/12/’5l), but
there have been some ridiculous
anomalies created by new valuations.
Thus, Perth suburban road boards
recently ,revalued their rateable properties
on figures supplied by the Taxation
Department. It was claimed that the
figures were arrived at after an inspection
by the department’s officers, but results
suggest that the valuing could have been
done at office-desks.
Blocks which looked good on paper,
but which are submerged throughout the
winter months, were raised in value 300
per cent., although in some cases the
road board concerned had refused a
permit to build because of the wetness.
In one district the rates were increased
up to 1300 per cent.
Rates must rise during inflation, but
since land values are the basis on which
all other values are formed, every effort
should be made to keep unimproved
land values down to a minimum. — Bass
(W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 157
Across.
1 Celestial fruit mother swallows
and a Japanese weight. (8)
5 Tweed turning an angry mode of
address. (6)
10~Risking all, this is an impatient
wolf’s last ultimatum to a demure
companion. (4, 2,7)
ll—Pronoun. (2)
2 Ambler separates the morning
from an inhabitant of the western
hemisphere. (8)
Distant. (4)
—Drink from the heads of many
~ Jmterate Latin kinsmen. (4)
° cj y indicate powers for a
Pederal electorate and these
(7)
U neet, a rearrangement for a
stranger” in the afternoon re-
on T T eshm ent. (3-4)
No anger allowed in this French
river. (7)
"-Contests score 150 on a mythical
~ cricket trophy. (7)
je Nothing Scottish in town. (4)
oL_e n 8 P° et living in Rome. (4)
Senility or fuss in the land of
gold. (2, 6)
of the cricket field. (2)
(4) V6r no doubt catch this.
31 —A coffin and a State are taking
bobby and an ugly old woman to
America. (11)
33 Sarah and a Scot fish. (6)
34 — The provident do this to urge
Constantine to initiate the tennis
proceedings. (8)
Down.
1 — Guy with a British island direc-
tion over Wagner’s tetralogy. (?)
2 Utterly descriptive of a giratte
caught uo in a harvester. (4, 3, V
3 A State pittance on pertume
during youth. (10)
4 Lincoln’s. (3) . . .
6 Double islands worshipped oy
Egyptians. (4)
7 Student prank. (3)
8— One who has June. (5)
9 Body of water at 50 with a caper.
(8) • .
11 —Maori dance. (4)
13 — Make the first-class fifty sicken.
(3)
14— Pimp, not a butcher. (11)
15 — Parent convict held by the Aus-
tralian XI and some near-
Africans. (10)
17—Cannoneers prepare peas tor
cooking. (8)
19 —Angle stick useful for savories,
or carp at phony jewellery. (4, 5)
21— Immediately a Continental nega-
tive. (4)
22—Not settled, so nothing went to
the altar. (4)
25 Craft upset the swimming enclo-
sures. (5)
26 — Hail upset this girl. (3)
29 City is too slow without the tow.
(4) .....
30 — Chum circuit is rising. (3)
32—Frank king has nothing to do. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 156.


w.
v.s*
Kit-:
r*V
*
■9
<*v.
:•/
/,
::;
■
f
-■•■■
■4*
H*
>£*»*
• . ..* I.-* /-
,vr
" s * *-.
t?:
) V-
c'\v
\Vrl3
V*
V>»
•' 5 .& ?
»y
“MARS
No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
A fine and modern Milling Machine with
guaranteed Accuracy and outstanding Quality.
Rapid Power traverse, all movements. Wide
range of speeds and feeds. Built in electrics,
Schlesinger standards of accuracy. Complete
with all accessories.
“MARS”
3 HP. DIESEL ENGINE
A quality diesel with outstanding features. Slow
running — Bosch injection — Water cooled — Replace-
able Liners -— Detachable Cylinders — Variable speed
— Forced feed lubrication — Dynamically balanced —
Easy Starting — Economical fuel consumption
simple to operate — Almost Vibration free.
3 H.P., 8 H.P. and 10 H.P. DIESELS AVAILABLE
FOR EARLY DELIVERY
., *» *, .V ’• .
yW i
K
m
o
i Is,
/’j
*vV'Ar
«i
H
LWf
. I
' V
i
St
jsH
w.
1
• or
r
4
AS
ig
»vv;
£3
.VS
P*.
3Sb^
US
8K"
%
'• * Ni*
SI
Ufffi
5$i
OTHER PRODUCTION UNITS MADE BY MARS FOR EARLY DELIVERY
“MARS” RADIAL DRILL
Designed to suit Engineering Work-
shop conditions requiring capacity and
accuracy. All gear drive. Power and
Hand Feed. Quick change and ease
of operation. Portable work table.
“MARS” TRIPLE-DRUM SANDER
High-speed production machine. Dial load
indicators fitted to each drum to ensure maximum
efficiency. No. 1 drum provided with selective
oscillation. Continuous feed belt ideally suited
for sanding small parts.
m
“MARS” PLANER
Suitable for use in any workshop.
Accurately built and sturdily designed.
Simple to operate. Maximum pro-
duction with minimum outlay.
B
■1
H
“MARS” 162-in. SHAPER
Ideal all purpose machine. Wide
operational range. Designed to cut
key ways in long shafts. Guaranteeo
accuracy.
THE “MARS” GEAR DIVISION provides prompt service.
Sunderland. Fellows, Robbing or Gleason Bevel processes.
Gears completely manufactured or your own blanks generated by,
MEEHANITE (Regd. Trade Mark) CASTINGS. All castings are produced in the Mars Foundry under supervision of highly
trained metallurgical and laboratory staffs. WE MANUFACTURE 21 GRADES OF MEEHANITE IRONS.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS: W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & C0.,.184 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide. VIC.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567/569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. QLD.: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co•
TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., Hobart. Head Office: Box 2156 T, Elizabeth Street Post Office, Melbourne. INDIA (Bombay Pro vine ).
R. S. Mehta & Co., All Chambers, Fort, Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
■
s?S
at' 5
m
m
©
m
0
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGES! VALLEY BRISBANE
I. & O’S. Advert.
