

The Bulletin
‘‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3760
Wednesday, March 5, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
OXFORD'S RADCLIFFE "CAMERA"
IS REALLYA
VARSITY LIBRARY
T INKED with the great University
Library known as the Bodleian is
the Radcliffe Camera, the dome of which
dominates the colleges of Oxford. This
great round building, crowned with its
lead-covered dome and its cupola, is one
of the noblest English buildings in the
Italian style and is one of the city’s most
remarkable sights. Costing £40,000 when
it was built by James Gibbs between 1737
and 1749, it was founded by John Rad-
cliffe, the court-physician whose bene-
factions also included the Radcliffe
Observatory and the Radcliffe Infirmary
in Oxford. This Yorkshire doctor, born
in the time of the Commonwealth, was
one of the most remarkable men on
Oxford’s roll of fame. He went to
London at an early age and began earn-
ing twenty guineas a day, became the
court physician ; he attended William and
Mary and saved the king’s life, but on
being summoned one day to the queen,
who was suffering from smallpox, he de-
clared on seing the recipes of what she
had been given, that she was a dead
woman, , and in fact she died within a
few days. John Radcliffe died in 1714
and was buried in St. Mary’s Church,
Oxford.
The Radcliffe Camera, originally
known as the Physic Library, has been
a reading room of the Bodleian since
1860 and is largely devoted to modern
literature. In the nineteenth century a
large underground chamber was con-
structed with a storage space for over a
million books.
Among the treasures of the Bodleian is
an eleventh-century copy of Caedmon’s
Creation, a contemporary copy of Magna
Carta and a seventh-century copy of the
Acts of the Apostles which the Venerable
Bede is believed to have used. Here also
are volumes which are known to have
been handled and read by Shakespeare
Milton and Shelley, *
royal purple para
a PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
™ U ™ ”“t .. STREET .«»»» .EC,.


[Learn
[W
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
- CUT HEBE AND MAIL ——
To STOTT’S; Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.152) Age.
Wanted to Buy.
To buy, copy of The Land That Time Forgot, by
Michael Leahy and Maurice Crane.
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 966, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/-.)
Book lists on Mansfieldiana, Caxton Press, early and
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, Will Lawson
and others). Specialised fields to r book hunting.
The Red Page
TALES OF THE BORDERS.
One of the fascinating psychological
problems of the Australian scene con-
cerns the effect which the Northern
Territory has upon writers who write
about it and. their readers who read about
it. As an intoxicant its atmosphere has
no equal this side of Moscow and its
vodka. If all the faith which is reposed
in the Territory were religious, bishops
would all have Rolls-Royces and church
services would be booked-out weeks
ahead at blackmarket rates. Any pros-
pectus, gold-reefs, yarn, proposition or
description which concerns the Territory
has innate authority.
If the late “Possum” Lasseter had
flourished in North Queensland his
would have been only one of 9999 lost
reefs which lie outside every goldfield
area in that prosperous State. If he had
essayed his last ride in New South Wales
he would have been laughed into, the
middle of the Pacific. Queensland-
Carpentaria used to be a more dangerous,
more romantic, more crocodiled part of
the world than the Territory. Cape York
Peninsula has more and bigger mos-
quitoes, more malaria, more birthrate,
more climbing-fish and more epic his-
tory. New Guinea has its man-eaters and
its head-hunters, and the Rockhampton
bars have more and better snakes. Yet
of all these men and women can write
soberly and be believed. They can write
of them too critically without risking
their lives. But to write of the Terri-
tory except -lyrically is to waste time in
the search for a public, and to write
except in terms of glowing praise for its
“potentialities,” its somewhat wearying
landscape, and the unsurpassed gallantry
of its people, and without reference to
its magnificent fighting tribes (generally
a poor unwarlike lot) and its golden
future is to be an outsider and to court
a sort of bristling hostility.
Fortunately, Mrs. Ernestine Hill has the
right recipe. She begins her new work,
The Territory, with a chapter called
“Winged Victory”;
Here I give you history galloping wild
for a century over half a million square
miles, the life story of a colony in quick-
sand.... A nameless land, a land without
a flag, a vague earth bordered by the
meridians of God... .Blacky men wandering
and white men riding in a world without
time, where sons do not inherit, and money
goes mouldy in the pocket, where ambi-
tion is wax melted in the sun and those who
sow may not reap....land of an ever-
shadowed past and an ever-shining future
of eternal promise that never comes true.
A sturdy realist, racing through pages
of this exalted prose, salted with refer-
ences for the country written by hasty
wayfarers who have had no experience
calculated to enable them to value it, or
who have enough interest in it to give
them favorable prejudices, might be
inclined to become impatient. A colony
in quicksand? There is very little, and
the writer has been up to his neck in a
lot of it. A nameless land? It has
always had too many names—many of
them hopelessly in the wrong places on
the map. It has a flag—the Australian
flag, which means that it also has a
Treasury. This is somewhat lucky for
it in its present perennially bankrupt con-
dition. Also under the flag it has civil
servants, who provide about half its
population. Its black-men do not wander
—let the Native Affairs Department catch
them at it! It would tie them up in a
bundle of red-tape and flatten them in
a blue book in the present age, and in
a past one it would certainly have de-
cided that they were wandering to no
good purpose, and somebody might have
shot them up as they cut down the O.T.
line to make spears or polluted the
nearest cattle-watering lagoon. Money
doesn’t go mouldy in the pocket in the
Territory. The Territorians see to that.
The steady ability of the Territory to
take money from the stranger is a gift
of which most people who have been
through the mill would like to have the
recipe. The mines that have had nothing
in them, the pastoral propositions that
have died, the farms that have proved
to be mirages, the sea treasure which has
remained on the bottom in and around
the Territory, if piled in the middle of
it on the top of the outside capital
invested in them, would turn Lake Eyre
into a mountain a few thousand feet
higher than Everest. And sons do
inherit—bags of it since income tax came
off.
Mrs, Hill’s book, keyed in the tone
of its beginnings, is described by its pub-
lishers as “a record of terrible, bitter
endeavor, of waste and sacrifice, re-
deemed and brightened on every page by
the Territory’s own living drama and a
wealth of humor.” It is, in fact, a tre-
mendous collection of Territory legend,
gathered by the campfire, in the local
pub, from the Press and sometimes from
personal experience. Where it is garnered
second-, third-, fourth- or fifth-hand it is
as exact as such gatherings'normally are.
It is magnified in its terror and suffer-
ing and in its danger, which was limited
in the past beside, say, that faced by
the early settlers of South Africa, Arctic
Canada and the Oregon Trail, but still
hard, and even now growing harder as
the Old Men become older and writers
expect more for the free beer or largesse
they dispense in return for narratives.
But this is, perhaps, all to the good.
Fact is dry stuff. Of its fabric Mrs.
Hill could not have achieved something
for which the whole literary and movie
world should in future be grateful—a
very extensive sort of vade mecum for
Australian Zane Greys in which every
character and every situation is reduced
to terms of the novel, the contents of
every yarn done up in cellophane with a
colored ribbon to keep out the dust which
is the most notable feature of life in the
interior for most of the year. All the
characters are novel-worthy, heroes or
villains, with no in-betweens, the whole
boiling people apart from the human race
in other parts of Australia.
The book will be popular in the
Territory itself as a mirror in which the
happy Territorians will be able to view
themselves through their own eyes or as
others of Mrs. Hill’s informants see them,
as through the bottom of a glass full of
liquid or the flicker of a campfire. Some-
times it will cause some pioneer to spring
off his tail with a howl of dissent, as no
doubt will be the case with Ross Mallam,
late Supreme Court judge and a near
relative of the inventor of Ally Sloper.
when he finds himself masquerading in
the guise of “Mr. Justice J. C. Mallom,”
sitting round a smudge-fire in Darwin
with the inimitable and imponderable
Freddy Thompson of the Chestertonian
larynx in the guise of half Darwin’s
organised rebel force against authority.
Whatever he was as Mr. Ross Mallam,
attorney, there was no firmer upholder
of the traditional aloofness of the
judiciary from public movements and
contentious persons than Mr. Justice Ross
Mallam, Supreme Court judge.
There are others among Mrs. Hill’s
readers who will be a little irritated by
her very frequent inability accurately to
record names. To her the immortal
Tommy Cahill is a “Paddy,” Zigenbine
is Zigembine, Fred Colson is Ted Colson ;
Chambers is Chalmers. This perhaps does
not matter in a troubadour’s chronicle
of which the text is attuned to the ears
of Australian readers of the boom age,
written for the man who has been
educated by the A.B.C. and the flapper
Press of the 1940’5. The Territory is a
tour de force in the gathering-together
of legend, white and black, in which the
writer is prepared to give the benefit of
the . doubt to all lore which is rich and
strange, such as much of that retailed per
favor of a native sense of humor and the
white man’s habit of jumping to con-
clusions to which he wants to jump ; such
tales as that the infringement of rights
to a particular corroboree as between
tribes was “often a killing matter,” and
John McDouall Stuart’s age-old story
about the blackfellow who gave him a
Masonic sign, but who actually probably
gave him one of the universal peace
signs which one meets among savages the
world over.
This well-printed volume will prob-
ably become a classic in its field. Of its
kind it is ten walks and a canter ahead
of anything else which has been printed.
And if foreigners are misled by its jacket
into the belief that the Central North of
Australia is a land of highly-decorated,
sweet - smelling, spear - armed savages
instead of a land of union-organised
drovers, pubs, kerosene refrigerators, tax-
collectors, inspectors, inspectors of
inspectors, economists, and prospectors
armed with Geiger-counters and short-
wave radios, it is perhaps all to the good.
As a piece of campfire entertainment,
as a Who’s Who of the Never Never in
all ages, as a novelist’s guide to outback
tales of the borders, it is in a class by
itself and perhaps no more romanticised
than the Scotland of Macaulay.
M.H.E.
Pictures in Books.
Recently in a review of some letters
or George du Maurier the surprising skill
of the old “Punch” woodblock engrav-
ings was discussed; and, indeed, to
go back to copies of 1857, 1858
and 1859 and see the engravers fol-
lowing a curving pen-line through white
spaces, shading-lines from thick to thin,
cross-hatchings, etc., so that it always has
the quality of a line drawn by a pen is
to understand why, as David Bland says
in The Illustration of Books (Faber),
French artists of the first half of last
century would often send their blocks
over to England to be engraved.
To get such effects on a face of box-
wood sawn across the grain (i.e., like the
top of a tree-stump, not the side) is less
remarkable than regrettable to the
modern viewer ; as'Mr. Bland says:
The ’forties saw the beginning of several
illustrated magazines like “Punch” and
‘ The Illustrated London News,” and the
steady debasing of wood-engraving in the
hands of the hacks who worked for Birkett
Foster, Gilbert, Duncan and others.
But in those days the wood-block was
the only means of printing a drawing
quickly and with the rest of the type-page
in a daily or weekly paper of considerable
circulation; with the invention of the
metal line-block woodcutting reverted to
its more noble and less well-to-do status
of an art, and its exponents revived the
technique of Bewick, thin white lines on
black, and strove to forget that the cut
had ever fallen so low as thin black lines
on white.
Still, we can easily be led astray in such
a matter as that of the individuality of
the woodcut. To have associated with
Mr. Will Mahony, for instance, in Syd-
ney, and to have learned how, manipulat-
ing the dangerous burin with his own
sensitive hands, he then completed, by
rubbing a piece of Japon vellum with a
spoon into the inked surface of the com-
pleted cut, those delightful specimens of
the craft, the circus “Caravan” and the
two small studies of circus clowns, to
say nothing of the tiger half in and half
out of striped shadows, which do so much
to redeem the reviewer’s living-room
from its atmosphere of irreclaimable
poverty, is to be blinded to the general
practice of woodcutting as exposed by
Mr. Bland. Virtue is not everywhere to
be found; —
After about 1500 the actual cutting of the
blocks seldom seems to have been done by
the artists.
Moxon’s Tennyson.. , .contained work by
eight different artists (including Rossetti,
Holman Hunt and Millais) engraved try
five different engravers, so it is not surpris-
ing that there is little harmony either
between the designs themselves or between
the illustrations and the book The
Dalziel Brothers (who engraved most of the
Pre-Raphaelite work in the book) were very
skilful craftsmen, but they were still inter-
mediaries, and by them the artist was
removed another step from the result of his ’
work; this all helped to lessen his influence
on the design of the book itself.
Not only this, but in the Kelmscott
Chaucer the Burne-Jones designs were cut
by a craftsman called Hooper after they
had been photographed on to the wood
by one Catterson Smith. However, after
this it sits less heavily on one’s conscience
that in a tiny limited edition one com-
pleted line-blocks of some delicate
nymphs by Victoria Cowdroy with a
type-page stereotyped (i.e., made into a
block) to make the printing easier ; and,
as a matter of fact, Mr. Bland points out
the great majority of modern books
illustrated by woodcuts are printed not
from the woodcut itself, but from line-
blocks made from the woodcut.
But the truth is that, no matter how
pure an artist may be in what might be
called a state of nature, he is no sooner
introduced to a book than he begins to
play tricks on the reader. Blake
... .was perfecting his new method of relief-
etching, or, as he himself called it, “wood-
cutting on copper,” which he claimed was
revealed to him in a vision by his dead
brother, Robert. It was simply a form of
etching in reverse; the text was written and
the decoration drawn in an impervious
liquid on copper and acid was allowed to
eat away the lighter part, leaving the outline
in relief. Blake himself described it tersely
by saying “Instead of Etching the blacks,
Etch the whites and bite it in” The use
of acid and the etching technique pro-
vide a striking parallel to our modern line-
block.
Francis Meynell experimented with his
Nonesuch books in color lino-cuts, copper
line-engravings, colors stencilled on a
collotype base; the Shakspeare Head
Canterbury Tales used designs redrawn
from the Ellesmere M.S. and colored by
hand; Rutherston and Austen tried out-
lines with colors which did not fill in the
lines etc.
Mr. Bland presents a history of book-
illustration from monkish manuscripts
before the birth of printing up to today;
then a long chapter which details almost
every known method of putting pictures
in a book, woodcuts, etchings, litho-
graphs, aquatints, collotype, chromo-
lithographs, etc., and concluding with an
essay on how pictures should be placed
on a page. For the interested but non-
specialist book-collector it should make
an indispensable third with Eric Gill’s
little masterpiece. Typography, and
Cockerell’s little Oxford handbook on
bookbinding—semi-technical treatises all
three, but equally distinguished for rare
good taste. —R. McC.
"Lost in the Stars."
Not having read Maxwell Anderson’s
Lost in the Stars I cannot agree or dis-
agree with the Red Page’s criticism of it
(B. 6/2/’52), but I think the review gives
a most misleading impression of Cry, the
Beloved Country, on which the play is
supposed to be based. The implication
is that the novel is Leftist in sympathy,
and has as its theme the conflict between
the rich white man and the poor black
man. This is not so. Apparently the
play diverges from the novel in both
purpose and plot. In the novel there is
no struggle between the negro father of
the murderer and the white father of the
victim. The former does not try to stop
his son’s trial; the latter does not seek
revenge, and is nowhere depicted as harsh
and arrogant. Moreover, the novel does
not try to show that all negro crime in
South Africa is caused by the dispos-
session of the black man by the white, but
that the breaking-up of the old pattern of
life, the drift to the city and the con-
sequent overcrowding and bad condi-
tions form a fertile soil for crime. Such
a view is surely based on human experi-
ence in all countries and ages, not on
Leftism or sentimentality. Communists,
indeed, should be the first to quarrel with
this novel and to accuse it of sentimen-
tality, for at the deepest level its theme
is the redemption of man and society by
Christian love.— -Nan McDonald.
New Penguins.
The latest covey of Penguins—2o or
so of them—is the most distinguished this
prolific firm has published. There are
several new translations —one by Eli-
saveta Fen of three of the, plays of
Chekhov, “The Cherry Orchard,” “Three
Sisters” and “Ivanov.”
On the Nature of the Universe by
Lucretius, a philosophical poem in six
books treating physics, psychology and
ethics from the Epicurean standpoint,
has been excellently translated by Ronald
Latham; and the Canterbury Tales of
Chaucer put into racy modern English
by Nevill Cogbill.
The Chekhov plays seem more living
every time one reads them, and for
people who couldn’t face the minor diffi-
culties in their original language
Chaucer’s delightful stories will live for
the first time.
Contemporary British Art, a Pelican
with 70 black-and-white plates and
several colored, has a foreword by
Herbert Read, who endeavors to explain
them without succeeding.
Reprints of fiction include The Grapes
of Wrath of Steinbeck, Galsworthy’s Man
of Property, Those Barren Leaves of
Aldous Huxley, and Animal Farm,
George Orwell’s amusing fantasy of the
pigs which ousted the farmer and estab-
lished a dictatorship of bacon.
Path to Glory : Showell Styles (Faber).
A swashbuckling tale of Nelsonian fights
and fears and loves, based on the R.N.
career of Admiral Sir Sidney Smith, a
contemporary of Nelson. Based also, it
would seem, on Sabatini (with Sabatinis
method of clothing the bones of history
in colorful raiment) and on C. S.
Forester’s Captain Hornblower, the book
is somewhat inferior to Forester until, in
the closing chapters, the author becomes
really competent with his full-blooded
account of Admiral Smith defending
Acre against Napoleon. A subsidiary
fight is the beautiful siren’s broadsiding
with the admiral’s honor. Honor is
scuttled.
* * * *
If It Die, an autobiography of child-
hood and youth, covering meetings with
Wilde and Lord Alfred Douglas and
closing with the author’s marriage, is the
latest volume to hand in Seeker and War-
burg’s admirable standard edition of
Andre Gide’s writings.


11
m
&
I
w
i
111
H
■* ■<
V
.
H
m
*
m
i
mm
i
a
■
K
,
v>
1
n
m
■
■ . I
HB
m
m
V
\
;■■■■>:
■ ■- ■
1
vo OIUV'V
1*•
© Slipper free comfort .
O Hard-wearing •
• Finest grade leathers .
made hy expert craftsmen .. .
tv Brand
A shoe with masculine charm. With “Tree” you’ll feel that slipper
comfort. Yes sir, and a most durable shoe, one with the highest
grade leathers moulded for the finest fitting by expert craftsmen!
Wf ,
■
■■■
msmmm
■
■
■ >.
m
a ml
w
is
8^
wmm
#** - .tv
fe^.,
p -f
- . mKm il
, ; V-- <&feg|b|{3? .- -).---<■-
r# >
' S v 'MMd
11 |SBPP
i '
SHR
sss
\ i
Iw?
■
HHB9.:.
:::.
m
, '* ‘ V . ■•
:
? •
* |m|B ” I
f9F '. «
'Jip \ «BNv ,
X#llw V
Na
V, ■;.;
1
i
m
m
mmmm
1. —Zebu Brogue obtainable in Black or Tan. A good wide
fitting. Punched and gymped. Extra stout welted soles, in
full and half sizes, 105/- pair.
2. —Made from imported zebu on the “Ace Last.” Whole golosh, punched and
gymped cap. 1 ramp. Full and half sizes. Black or Tan. Also stocked in
imported calf. Price, 104/- pair.
3. —Four-hole Derby for the man who likes a nice light shoe. In Black Kid or
Tan Calf. Genuine welted leather soles. Full and half sizes.
Tan Calf, priced at 69/- pair; Black Kid, priced at 75/- pair.
4. —Glace Kid “Fiteasy Last,” wide fitting. Cap or plain toe.
Full and half sizes. Price is 75/- pair.
w
ŵ
MM
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S SHOES—-GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. PHONE: M 2401. POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


* <y * $ « * * *
' <"\ '.
>v<- < >V'>'><V*'>*« , *'c
<s•>■>
>*'>«>**'<.'&* ***.>..♦ „ _. „ ... „, _
j££**s,
Vj£~X~ 0
«*4"V , • ?
*•>s<► •> ❖vx <*** >
ututr4ntnnnus^fex^^^^ }
> x**.* x x***<..
y *XJ>***x,XH**Jy**y>*,e.*i ,V>Vl<
> * * <- ♦ ♦ ♦ *❖ *0 * «**•* * V,
/ * 151 *t* ** *£*s *£s*
■ &*y->. V >■■•<_■ / '£<>-.v v •; v :;•:
• <'*•>•>«>•>❖«*'>/, ;'
.
V 'i X X y»X^
;•;• >•
mp
s^sSisSi 4
:t^
'v
Ss®
<$
S'<\
-:VVnw- j
Mi
Worsted Suitings
. «» a *£»!& ■•■«„.;
-. x IHH!
.. »' # . v ; ;-;.
' ' .' •* ■ /><-*< r£"~V .•>*:■• *>',’:}.-,vVv/,V:<'<>vC? ; x-<** :: * : x >:-£'.
t ‘ '<■ » » »~" < S ;
w
•/js* * *n«
/a%^ x
, ;. <S.
w.
F >: ?>\ <
frp/P
im
r ppi|ife
■ * % f ■
-*?< s&< !xy-;fc; : : ‘ . .
YARRA FALLS LTD. abbotsford, n. 9, victoria


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No, 3760
Wednesday , March 5, 1952
ẃ
OUT OF THE HAT.
“And you’ll notice that I have produced it out of the bowler of the gentleman on my left.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE LION COMES BACK.
It is now obvious that the British Isles
are better than convalescent after
years of thorough mauling by the
Socialists at home and the Com-
munists and inspired “nationalists”
abroad, as well as by candid friends in
U.N.O. intent on stripping John Bull
down to his socks and kicking him in the
ribs for luck.
Despite the fact that Britain’s Socialist
Government for five years cast the
country alternately for the roles of Uriah
Heep, Mrs. Gummidge and Oliver Twist
in international politics, its people have,
as usual, risen triumphant over circum-
stance and shown that they are the same
race which staved off the Armada, beat
Napoleon in Spain and Belgium and were
the decisive factors in saving Europe
twice in the last 40 years; the same that
gave the world most of the stream of
great inventions, from steam-engines to
penicillin, from aseptic surgery to radar
and jet-aircraft engines.
While other countries were boasting
their prowess and inventiveness in the air
after the war with so much color and to
such an extent that the world almost
forgot that the jet engine came out of
Britain, United Kingdom aircraft
designers quietly established a lead in
commercial aircraft which put them a
decade ahead of their American rivals,
and the same appears to have gone for
military aircraft, too. On the little that
is known, any World War 111 will have
its British marvels as silently achieved and
unobtrusively produced as radar and the
"Spitfire and the Lancaster were produced
to the pained astonishment of the enemy
in 1940.
In the field of nuclear research again
it was assumed that the monopoly in the
Western World was held by the
Americans, with their multifarious and
noisy committees, their public inquiries
and their frequent statements about what
they would and would not trust to their
British Allies. But it has suddenly been
revealed that all the time Britain has been
making progress in nuclear research
worthy of the almost forgotten fact
that it was a British (N.Z.) scientist. Lord
Rutherford, who first split the atom and a
group of British who brought the atom-
bomb project to the point of fruition.
It appears that Britain has an atom-
bomb of her own and the machinery to
continue producing atom-bombs under
conditions which lead the United States
Atomic Energy Committee to believe
that she “might now be far ahead of the
United States in technique and scientific
advances on the bomb and atomic
weapons generally.” This phase of affairs
has been achieved with less boasting than
the mere establishment of a rocket-range
in Australia.
But, it is fully in line with other
developments, and notably with the re-
surgence of strength in British politics
through the return to power of a gov-
ernment with a British outlook in place
of Mr. Attlee’s pack of theorists, some of
whom never seem to be sure whether they
owe allegiance to the ideas of their own
country or to those of the Kremlin,
The first attempt at a censure by Labor
on the existing British Government pro-
duced more shocks for the British people
than the revelation of their possession of
the atom-bomb. It brought out the extent
to which the Attlee Government had
sought to run with the hare and hunt with
the hounds. It had adopted, during its too-
long and sorry reign, the pose of a Gov-
ernment pledged to Socialist “peace,” one
which turned aside from the horror of
atom-bombing and which was prepared
to let somebody else do the dirty work
in that sphere unless dire necessity forced
it to lean on the superior knowledge of
its allies for a distasteful necessity. It
recognised Communist China, even
i though Peking spurned its emissary and
treated him with contempt.
It openhandedly presented the U.S.S.R.
with a Nene engine for the MIG, with
results in Korea that include the gift to
the Communists of air superiority, which
American, British and Australian forces
are paying for in lives. What other silly
»giving of secrets has gone on has yet to be
shown by events, as have also the effects
of the careless and openhanded em-
ployment of traitors in high places—men
whose possible perfidy has never been
prudently anticipated because a
Socialist background protected them so
far as the Government was concerned.
The Attlee Government made it clear
again and again that it would have nothing
to do in any circumstances with proposals
which might extend the Korean war
beyond the Yalu. It sealed its adherence
to an abject policy of appeasement of
Soviet Russia and of compromise with
elements like Mr. Aneuran Bevan by
dubbing its opponents at the recent elec-
tion “warmongers” with such vigor that
Mr. Churchill himself, no thin-skinned
campaigner, was moved to legal action
against one of the propagators of the
epithet. It has even carried the bluff to
the point that it has dared to move an
easily-defeated censure motion on the
Government and to vote for it on strictly
party lines, mainly on the ground that
Mr. Churchill had taken the reasonable
view with President Truman that if, after
months of patient negotiation, a truce
were made in Korea and treacherously
broken by the Chinese, he would support
the extension of action beyond the Yalu
into China proper. He could have done
nothing else, and neither could a Labor-
Socialist Government in the face of the
violent reaction of British and American
public opinion in the face of such a
betrayal.
But the Attlee Opposition, like
the Evatt Opposition, has no conscience
in such matters, and less discretion. In
moving its censure it gave the chance to
the Government to lay bare the real
nature of Socialist policy. Though always
violently and loudly opposed to secret
treaties and agreements, Mr. Churchill
made it clear, and there was no denial,
that the Socialist Government had, never-
theless, entered into a secret agreement
with the United States to go even farther
than he had gone in readiness to extend
the war, if necessary, in Asia. It had
engaged in the secret manufacture of
vital armaments of a type about which
both their friends and their main enemy
were open, a matter on which they can
be condemned for their hypocrisy.
Britain should heave a sigh of relief
to be rid of this crew, which has left
behind it a legacy of muddle, class-war
and dissension likely to extend the British
people’s years of suffering and shortages
for a decade longer than need be. If
the British self-respect and instinct for
good government is still fully alive it
should, however, be prepared to go
through these years buoyed by the know-
ledge that it is on the upward road at
last in world estimation, and that already
the strong and open stand of the
Churchill Government is paying
dividends in the sudden hushing of
menacing voices among the jackal nations
of Asia, such as Persia (which has sud-
denly decided that it might be better if
it compromised on the oil question, and
has made an offer to treat the Anglo-
Iranian Company as its main customer),
and Egypt, which hurriedly sacked its
Government when it saw how grimly the
Old Lion of Downing-street was prepared
to avenge the murder of British subjects
and how much unexpected strength he
had at his disposal to carry out his inten-
tions,
Britain’s new strength is already so far
recognised that the Kremlin is beginning
to groom it once more to play the part
of the Arch-villain of Capitalism in the
place of Wall-street.
"Labor"-Communist Front.
Imagine Mr. Calwell, on behalf of the
political “Labor” party, and Mr. Monk
and Mr. Broadby of the A.C.T.U., for
the unions, thus joining in nation-wide
appeal to “the workers” to take their
medicine along with the general com-
munity and not to obstruct the Menzies
Government in its efforts to get the
country to pull itself out of its economic
plight:
Moves are being made in some quarters
to resort to industrial action with a view
to protesting against the Government’s
policy or coercing it into changing its
policy.
Efforts at industrial coercion against
an elected Parliament which is acting
within the limits of the Constitution would
be wrong in principle, difficult and ill-
advised in practice, and damaging to the
Labor movement. It is for Parliament
and the electors to deal with the Govern-
ment.
If industrial production were impeded
for political reasons, the nation’s economic
effort, which is so vital for our well-being,
would be damaged with injurious conse-
quences—
There are people who say we ought to
take industrial action, strike action, re-
fuse to work overtime and ban the extra
Saturday shift in the coalmines because of
policies the Government is pursuing. That
kind of policy will bring us into greater
difficulties to the extent that we won’t
be able to maintain our standard of living.
Whether wo like it or not the Govern-
ment has been elected by the people of this
country. I believe the day of strikes to
obtain the consideration that we, as trade-
unionists, regard ourselves as being en«
titled to, has passed.
Yet these are words from warnings
issued simultaneously to British “Labor”
by Mr. Herbert Morrison, deputy-leader
of the Parliamentary party, and T.U.C.
leaders Deakin and Tewson, on the
announcement by the Chancellor of the
Exchequer of new measures in the
Government’s enforced economy drive —
a £5OO-million cut in imports, drastic cuts
in the civil service and charges for
hitherto-free dental treatment, prescrip-
tions, hearing-aids and wigs.
If Australians can imagine the leaders
in the local “movement” speaking out
like that they can also imagine Mr.
Rowley James exhorting the coalminers,
as Mr. James Griffiths (M.P. for Llanelly)
has just exhorted the South Wales miners,
to end their boycott of output, “which
conflicts with official Labor policy on
methods of fighting the Government’s
economy cuts,” and “to abandon strike
tactics, which are hurting Britain, damag-
ing the Labor cause seriously and divid-
ing our ranks.”
But Australian “Labor” is a long way
from any such exhibition of a sense of
responsibility in the sterling area’s emer-
gency. True, president Monk of the
A.C.T.U. has been urging on the unions
a national outlook, and it would be no
great step forward for him to employ
some of the language used by Deakin of
the T.U.C. in Britain. His reward so
far is to be told he is talking treason
to Australian “Labor” policy by certain
politicals, by the A.W.U. and by president
Ferguson of the A.L.P. executive. But
he persists, and in the industrial con-
ference called by the Chief Judge of the
Arbitration Court the A.C.T.U. executive
has made considerable advances for an
agreement with employers on a campaign
to increase production and assure con-
tinuity of work without strikes. Mr.
Ferguson approved the British leaders’
statements to the extent of declaring that
“the workers should oppose stoppages on
political grounds,” but promptly can-
celled the effect by adding “This does not
imply abject acceptance of Government
wrongdoing. The right to strike is sacro-
sanct. It is Communist interference and
improper use of strike action that must
be avoided.”
The country has just heard Dr. Evatt
giving tongue at the head of the “Labor”
pack through the medium of his futile
censure motion. It was an incitement
to the unions to do everything that British
“Labor” leaders urge their supporters not
to do. He could not expect to effect any-
thing in Parliament so long after the
Budget debate; and his charges against
the Government of “injuring industry,
causing economic conscription and pro-
ducing unemployment,” of deliberately
following a course to bring about “a
disastrous depression,” were nothing but
an incitement of the unions to political
strikes. This is the Communist policy
which Boss Ferguson condemned out of
one side of his mouth and abetted out
of the other, and “the greatest defender
of Communism in this Parliament,” as
Minister Holt called the “Labor” leader,
must be taken as interpreting his extra-
parliamentary master’s wishes.
Nor is that all Dr. Evatt’s gross dis-
service to Australia at this time. He
knew that the Commonwealth Treasurer
was on the point of returning to report
to Cabinet on the new Commonwealth-
wide economy measures agreed to in
London —as foreshadowed in Britain
by Chancellor of the Exchequer—and due
to be implemented by the Australian
Government also. Dr. Evatt hastens to
condemn them in advance, which is also
the Communist policy. No doubt he
agrees with the Communist “Worker” in
Britain that the Morrison-Deakin state-
ments are “spineless” stuff, even if poli-
tical strikes against the Government
should “hurt the country, damage the
Labor cause and seriously divide the
Labor ranks.” That also is transparently
the Communist aim in Australia.
This spurious “leader” of Parliamentary
“Labor” has bereft himself of anything
to say when the new restrictions, of which
he has had ample warning, are introduced
by the Government. If he is sincere—in
which case no experience can ever teach
him anything—he can only be working
to forward the Communist influence in
the unions for resistance to advice, which
the A.C.T.U. had received with some
show of response, from the Chief Judge
of the Arbitration Court, addressed to
them on this subject—the decisions made
at the conference between Mr. Churchill
and President Truman and among the
Finance Ministers of the British Com-
monwealth thereafter. Dr. Evatt must
have read the Chief Judge’s exhortations,
too:
The decisions made at these discussions
will involve Australia, with other nations
of the British Commonwealth, in the
taking of measures aimed at restoring and
stabilising the balance of our respective
economies and adjusting: the economies
of the British nations with those of
some other countries of the w0r1d....1t
means that we shall have to aim at a
greater and more naturally balanced eco-
nomic and industrial effort in our own
productive and distributive Industries.
But there is no real ground for con-
templating a depression and its conse-
quences in this country. For here we have
so much to be done, with abundant
natural resources lying in wait to welcome
a growing population. We have only to
correct some perhaps inevitable results of
a war-distorted domestic economy.
But these are words from the head of
that industrial authority against which
the Communists in Australia have sworn
eternal enmity the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court. They will be gratified
to know that Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell
are of one mind with them.
Among the things it would seem that
these so-called “leaders” of “Labor” do
not know are:
The Communist cold war has been ex-
tended to Australia, and is being waged
here to prevent the revival of essential in-
dustry, the preparation of national defence,
and economic measures to correct inflation.
The Socialist policy of over-full employ-
ment—a permanent condition, maintained
on bank credit, of more jobs than men—
militates against the tackling of any of
these problems, and the leaders of the late
Socialist Government in Britain now recog-
nise that re-direction of employment by
budgetary measures has become imperative
if British economy is not to collapse.
“Social security” as contemplated by
‘Labor’ cannot possibly be financed on
current production, and the resort to in-
flated currency to keep it going has, by
increasing living costs, undermined all
pension-benefits.
In Australia, with a basic-wage system
rocketing with every rise in food costs,
the supreme obligation is to concentrate
national efforts upon vastly greater food
output, for home consumption and export.
It appears that this cannot be done with-
out the incentive of freer markets (en-
tailing higher prices) for foodstuffs, or
ruinous subsidies which farmers reject
anyway. What that means in overhaul of
the basic-wage system is obvious.
For the Evatt party in Parliament and
for the Communists outside it every
Government measure for tackling these
problems is assailed and obstructed as
unnecessary, destructive of stability and
employment and “social security,” and
provocative of political strikes. So far
the A.C.T.U. has resisted this false wit-
ness and malicious counsel. The line-up
on the Evatt political side is indicated by
the list of unions to which the A.C.T.U.
has given three months’ notice of
suspension, as a preliminary to expul-
sion, unless they disown the Communist
international W.F.T.U. the Miners’
Federation, Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion, Building Workers’ Industrial Union,
Australian Railways Union (Mr. Fer-
guson’s own) and Seamen’s Union (all
Communist-controlled). They all stand
for go-slow, political strikes, defiance of
Arbitration Court awards that don’t suit
them and industrial obstruction in order
to “defeat the Menzies Government.”
Dr. Evatt and his deputy-leader, Mr.
Calwell, have not said one public word
in opposition to this foreign-ordered cold
war on the Australian economy. The
Communists have always held that the
way to smash Australia lies through
smashing the “Labor” party first, and the
Evatt-Calwells haven’t the spunk to resist
that either.
"All the Winners."
Among the accessories of the British Par-
liament, almost as familiar as Big Ben, is
“Dod,” the parliamentary annual hand-
book published for more than a century
—and originally partly prepared by one
of the founders of a great Australian
legal family, Richard Windeyer.
It has taken half-a-century of parlia-
mentary government to produce a similar
useful record for Canberra —it has come
under the hand of the doyen of the
Federal Press gallery, W. Farmer Whyte.
There are useful figures about the
national income and expenditure in this
book, lists of Acts according to the
departments which administer them;
resumes of the functions of the depart-
ments, which form stars by which
ordinary citizens may navigate along the
right bureaucratic channels.
The most fascinating side of the Aus-
tralian “Dod,” however, is the personal
one. It has biographies, some of them
lengthy, and all, one hopes, certified to
at the source, of members of the Com-
monwealth (or as the St. Nicholas Com-
mission imposingly titles it, the
“National”) Parliament;
Curtin, Daniel James [Lab., N.S.W.].
Boilermaker from Redfern; has been asso-
ciated with Labor politics and industrial
matters for many years; president Maroubra
Bay branch of A.L.P., ex-member N.S.W.
branch of A.L.P. Central Executive; presi-
dent Junior Rugby League Football Club,
Maroubra; elected M.LLR. for Watson,
December, 1949.
It is all there —the news that Dr. Evatt
(who naturally has the longest biography
in the record) was awarded the Grand
Cross of the Legion of Honor for “out-
standing services to U.N.0.,” that Mr.
W. M. Hughes is a Privy Councillor ot
Canada, Mr. Luchetti a direct descendant
of a lady whose parents came out in the


First Fleet, and that the journalistic record
of Mr. Allan Fraser of Eden-Monaro “is
unique, for he has reported Parliaments
of Tasmania, Victoria and N.S.W., House
of Commons and Deil Eireann” —“Deil”
must be Scottish Gaelic. There are full
returns of all the latest State and Federal
elections.
Also there is full information about
the boards which have been set up over
us and of their functions, and these are
almost a volume in themselves. Who can
recite offhand the names of members of
the Australian Whaling Commission, the
Federal Potato Advisory Committee or
the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession
Committee? Who can glibly run off a
list of the differences in personnel and
function of the A.C.T, Planning and
Development Branch, the A.C.T. Services
Branch, the Housing and Accommodation
Branch and the A.C.T. Advisory Coun-
cil? Who knows the names and tele-
phone-numbers of Ministers’ private sec-
retaries? Who can come up promptly
with the answer: “14 Sadova-Samotyoch-
naye” when asked for the address of the
Australian Embassy in Moscow?
This kind of information is available
in whole chapters in Mr. Whyte’s Aus-
tralian Parliamentary Handbook, along
with the area and description and history
of Australia’s Antarctic territory, which
covers “approximately 5,000,000 square
miles,” or 2,000,000 square miles more
than Australia itself, and the location and
geography of the Ashmore and Cartier
Islands, bits of Australia which the
average Easterner has never heard, and
all the rest of the Australian territories.
The book certainly breaks new ground;
it is not only full of information, but of
information which is hard to obtain or
not readily accessible.
ELV.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Open Go for HONO.
It is evident from an official survey made
recently that whatever the real cause of
falling land production may be it is not
because of any shortage of HO, PO, PHST,
PHSTO or HNSO. This, if he chooses
to use it effectively, offers Mr. Graham,
the N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture, a
weapon with which to crush Mr. Blake
Pelly, M.L.A., into a—well—jelly.
Mr. Graham recently went to the
Agricultural Council conference on food-
production with enough “points to
make a leaf for a spring-tyne cultivator.
Mr. McEwen, the Federal Agricultural
Minister, threw in a few more. Mr. Pelly,
not to be outdone, heaved another bagful
at Mr. Graham. The three must nearly
have a cultivator between them, though
so far no extra meat or wheat or butter
has appeared.
However, one of Mr. Pelly’s points was
that Mr. Graham should “encourage more
efficient farming by wide distribution of
the latest information on scientific ll nes -
Mr. Graham is doing just that. He’s had
his officers busy on the Manning River,
where, at latest information, they have
unearthed one HONO, no fewer than 12
PHO’s and a POS, in addition to the
others mentioned above, and sundry other
phenomena of a like kind.
It’s all there for Mr. Pelly’s informa-
tion, 70 book-size pages of well-printed
matter, with maps and graphs and tables,
printed on nice paper, in Vol. 19, No. 4
of Mr. Graham’s “Review of Market-
ing and Agricultural Economics” for
December, 1951, just issued. Mr. Pelly,
who is probably one of those people who
thinks titles should mean what they say,
will look in vain for any review of
marketing ; but if he persists he 11 cer-
tainly find the HO’s and PO’s, and that s
where the agricultural economics come in.
For a HO, Mr. Graham will have him
know (regardless of expense), is a Man-
ning River cow-cocky “without non-
farm experience” who was a hired farm-
worker on his father’s or another farm
before he became an “owner-operator.”
The others, the PHST’s and whatnots, are
birds of the same species but of different
plumage and origins. Thus a PNSO
worked for his father, then worked some-
where else, then took on sharefarming,
became an owner and is “with non-farm
experience.”
Now the brief and succinct title of this
treatise is “Some Aspects of Land Utilisa-
tion on Dairy Farms on the Lower North
Coast,” and the aim of the work is:
(a) To obtain factual information con-
cerning the technical, economic and social
structure of the dairy industry, and so on.
(b) To investigate the nature of, and
relationship between, the many factors
making for variations in the productivity of
dairy-farms.
And after 70 pages it is revealed that 21
farmers inherited their farms, 18 bought
or leased ’em; and that “family assist-
ance” was important in acquiring
“property-ownership,” and most of the
HO’s and PHST’s have spent most of
their lives among cows.
That, of course, is not the end. More
will be printed in a subsequent issue of
the “R.M.A.E.” Mr. Felly, if he desires
to pursue the matter further, had better
order his copy now, because when the
HNSO’s and HONO’s hear of it they’ll
rush it with their ears back. Mr. Felly,
being somewhat sceptical about Mr.
Graham, might conclude that the whole
darned thing is a waste of time and
money and will end up shoved away in
old boxes or sold to pulp-mills and won’t
get one extra pound of butter from the
Manning or anywhere else. If he does,
that’s his affair.
As for Mr. Graham, if he has read the
treatise he at least knows the proportion
of HO’s to PHST’s on Upper Dingo
Creek. Imagine the effect at the next
meeting of the A.A. Council when it is
confronted with that!
TheCommos Try Again.
Prompt action at the weekend in the
Arbitration Court under the new clauses
of the Commonwealth Act against strikes
in breach of awards suppressed the wharf-
strike which laid Sydney waterfront idle
on Friday. Commissar Healy, the
wharfies’ boss, got what consolation he
could out of it with a Czar-like gesture
summoning the Press to his Neutral Bay
home to receive his written statement
calling off the strike.
He is one of those Moscow agents
in unions who run the risk of deporta-
tion if the law really got into action
against them on cause shown. At any
rate, he came to heel quickly at the
threat of a summons for contempt if the
strike was not called off by Monday.
Part of the Healy statement condemned
the Menzies Government’s legislation
(which had thus proved its efficiency) as
“introducing coercion into conciliation
and arbitration” and therefore offensive
to the “Labor” party and the A.C.T.U.
“Introducing coercion” is sweet coming
from such a source; and the A.C.T.U. is
already engaged in using coercion on its
own account to discipline Healy’s union,
along with certain other Commo-bossed
outfits.
Another Commo executive, that of
the A.E.U., has been holding up Mel-
bourne’s power and transport services
with a ban on overtime in order to force
increased marginal rates of pay against
the Conciliation Commissioner’s award.
The boilermakers’ and the ironworkers’
organisations are joining the A.E.U.’s
stand. Since the 40-hour week award
made reasonable overtime compulsory if
necessary in any industry, and this con-
dition was written into all awards, there
seems no good reason why the new
clauses in the Act which cut short Healy s
capers should not also be used against
these other sabotage strikes.
One thing is certain. If the Government
wishes the community to accept loyally
the new economic restrictions and taxa-
tion imposts in order to defeat inflation, it
must tolerate no further defiance of
authority from the foreign agents in the
unions whom it has charged with being
the fomenters of industrial indiscipline in
this country.
"For U.S. Imperialism."
Senator Cameron, formerly “Labor”
P.M.G. and Minister for Aircraft Pro-
duction during World War 11, has
reverted to nature. In his latest exposi-
tion he selected as his text “Report on
Korea,” by “Ek Dum” (B. 30/1/’52),
and quoted:
The one thing that grieves and worries
the soldier in Korea is psychological. What
is he fighting for, and why is he there?.....
All they can tell the soldier is that he is
fighting to keep South Korea free in accord-
ance with the principles of the United
Nations.
Senator Cameron did not quote the
conclusions of the article, which were
that the soldiers in Korea were defending
the bases necessary to make Australia
secure against attack and that their role
was as vital to our safety as that of the
men of Gallipoli.
A comparison between his quotations
in Parliament from his own article with
a statement by Chou En-lai, Premier of
Communist China, whose troops are fight-
ing ours in Korea, are striking:
Senator Cameron : The answer is that
the soldiers fighting in Korea under the flag
of the United Nations should be told they
are not fighting for the purpose of keeping
South Korea free. They are embroiled in
the strengthening and extension of American
imperialism in Asia.
Chou En-lai ; The United States de-
liberately concocted the assault against
the Korean democratic People’s Republic in
order to expand its aggression in the East.
(Report to People’s Conference, Sept. 30,
1950.)
Added to this, Senator Cameron made
the allegation that though “we wfcre led
to believe that soldiers are fighting in
Korea because it is their duty to uphold
the principles of the United Nations
Charter, we know it was because Presi-
dent Truman said he would support the
policy which would help him win the
next U.S. election.”
This libellous charge, reflecting
on the ruler of a friendly Power,
should be read in the light of the fact
that the American forces have had over
100,000 casualties in Korea.
“Labor” so far shows no sign of resent-
ing his statements or the fact that its
official organs published them. Senator
McKenna mildly affirms that “Labor
still backs U.N.O. policy. Dr. Evatt,
usually ready to sound off at any pretext,
was strangely silent. All that happened
in the way of immediate action was that
the party followed the precedent set when,
without any ground, it accused A. M.
Plain, member for the Northern Territory
(who had unearthed and exposed some of
its associations with Communism), of
showing his gold pass to the Japanese
to gain favors. When he next spoke after
having called attention to Senator
Cameron’s statements, Mr. W. C. Went-
worth was accused in an interjection by
Mr. Clyde Cameron of being drunk —a
charge which the Speaker at once investi-
gated and found to be groundless.
There seems to be a strange affinity
between Communist and “Labor”
methods of refuting opponents.
Still Robbed!
The controversy as to whether Victoria
was robbed, by the Commonwealth at the
last Loan Council meeting or whether
Premier McDonald has been crying
“Stop thief!” to distract attention from
the shortcomings of his Administration
looks like lasting until the council meets
to decide next year’s allocations of loan
money —if McDonald’s Government lasts
that long. Latest two chapters in the
story have been made available to the
public through courtesy of Melbourne
“Herald” one contributed by
Opposition-leader Norman (successor to
Hollway as Liberal leader in Victoria)
and the other by McDonald himself.
Taking the Premier to task for com-
plaining that Commonwealth policy had
obliged him to cut the entire Victorian
works programme by a flat 30 per cent.,
and accusing him of “creating in the
public mind the very dangerous idea
that there is ample loan money available,
if only the Federal Government would
release it,” Mr. Norman made the
following points:
(1) Loan funds are not allocated by the
Prime Minister or the Commonwealth, but
by the Doan Council, on which each State
has one vote and the Federal Government
two.
(2) Victoria’s share, which was voted for
by McDonald, was £56 million, which was
£2O million more than the previous year’s
figure.
(3) Victoria received more per head of
population than any other State except
Tasmania.
(4) Dong before the council met Mc-
Donald had committed Victoria to more
than double the previous year’s loan ex-
penditure, despite his knowledge that allo-
cations were to be limited by the money
available on the loan market.
(5) Despite complaints of the miserliness
of the grant, every department, with the
exception of Soldier Settlement, gets a
bigger loan vote this year than last.
Attacking the uniform cut of 30 per cent.,
the Victorian Opposition-leader asked
why no attempt had been made to decide
priorities and why the Premier had made
no attempt to conserve the available
funds. There were, for example, five
major water-projects in hand in addition
to the Eildon scheme. Was it wise to
slow them all down, instead of trying to
complete one or more? Money spent
on gas-nationalisation “to placate the
Labor party” could have contributed to
this. Further finance for the Housing
Commission could have been raised by
allowing the commission to sell houses
to tenants. And why, with the State
Electricity Commission’s loan funds up
£lO million, was it necessary to cut its
staff on capital works by 40 per cent?
In his reply the Victorian Premier
jumped with both feet on Mr. Norman’s
suggestion that selling Commission
homes would help provide money for
more houses; under the Commonwealth-
States agreement such money would have
to go back to the Commonwealth in
reduction of loan liability. On other
points he was not so happy. The Com-
monwealth, it appears, is able to black-
mail the smaller States into voting its
way because they are “dependent to a
big degree for their existence on the
Commonwealth Grants Commission.”
And it was because Mr. Casey, when
Minister for National Development, had
urged the States to obtain as much
electrical equipment as possible from
overseas that Victoria had entered into
“overseas contractual obligations that
cannot be, and should not be, repudiated,
hence the S.E.C. had had to sack 4000
men from developmental projects. He
considered Mr. Norman’s suggestion of
priorities for works “a poor substitute for
the loss of funds to carry out the works.”
In short, the McDonald case is merely
a repetition of his cry We ve been
robbed.” It makes no attempt to explain
why he planned on such a lavish scale
after agreeing with other Premiers and
with the Commonwealth that loan pro-
grammes must be kept within the limits
of money available. His remarks on
priorities imply that there is unlimited
money on tap for any programme of
“works” a Government cares to submit.
This, of course, he knows is absurd—
almost as absurd as believing that his
leadership of a party of 13 in a House
of 65 and his possession of the title and
emoluments of a Premier make him the
real head of the Government of Victoria.
Wizard Winsor's Magic Plan.
The co-ordination plan of the Wizard
Winsor for the socialised Sydney trams
and the socialised Sydney ferries shows
what Socialism can do when it really
tries.
The McGirr Government bought the
ferries for a song, after having tried to
grab them for virtually nothing at all,
when they were faced with bankruptcy
through the competition of Government
transport across the Harbor Bridge; also
through loaf and high wages and cost of
fuel. Their charges had gone up
astronomically since the 1920’5.
Having acquired them, the Wizard
Winsor immediately began to initiate
“economies and improvements” which
consist, so far as the naked eye can tell,
in ceasing to wash down the boats for
months on end and in giving the time-
table a sporting flavor instanced by the
fact that one day last week the Cremorne
9.13 a.m. boat left at 9.10, propped like a
startled fawn when it approached Circular
Quay and found its normal wharf
occupied, and landed its passengers at
the wrong jetty more than a minute late
on its regular schedule.
Now comes the co-ordination. The
trams and buses across the Bridge were
instituted to hasten traffic from the North
Shore, and passengers pay a toll
for enjoying their service. Mr. Winsor
now proposes to divert these cross-bridge
trams to ferry wharves, thus making the
journey of the passengers much longer
and forcing some of them to change three
times en route to town, whereas before
they were carried straight into the heart
of the city at Wynyard.
The device will, of course, send
up the revenue of the ferries,
crowd the boats and make their
service even more of a muddle than it
is now. It will also reduce the revenue
of the tramway service and make it even
more broke than it is now. What the
department gains on the swings it will
lose on the roundabout, but the plan will
present Mr. Winsor and Mr. Sheahan,
his Minister, with some more excuses
for not improving either trams or ferries
on the ground of a “financial stringency”
in both services. It will also give them
a chance of wiping out two modern
private bus services direct to town which
have been making the socialised transport
services look like something adrift from
the Ark.
A New Voyager.
On September 23, 1942, lonely on a tide-
ripped strip of white sand near Timor,
destroyer Voyager, valiant company of
Stuart, Waterhen, Vendetta and Vampire,
ended her voyaging. Stuck there, a sit-
ting duck, she was pounded by Jap
bombers. So far as is known her bones
lie there still. On Saturday, March 1,
1952, destroyer Voyager, newest addi-
tion to the Fleet, slid smoothly down the
slips at Cockatoo Island and cooled her
virgin bilges in the salt-water her sister
knew for 24 years.
Cockatoo was gay on Saturday—reds,
blues, whites and yellows of women’s
dresses among the hushed strength of
boilers, presses, furnaces and steam-
hammers. Secured alongside, seawise cor-
vettes and destroyers watched with dep-
recating interest this unfamiliar influx.
The centre of attraction was a long, slim
hull supported by chocks along its length.
From its keel, grey sides swept up in
steel-hardened strength to the decks which
tapered sternwards in steely symmetry.
Waiting for the official party, overhung
by the curved knife of her bow, one re-
membered that other Voyager. A 1170-ton
whippet mounting four four-inchers,
27,000 horsepower and 30 knots, she was
21 when the call came, and, inside a
matter of weeks, was at action-stations in
the Mediterranean. Her captain was
Commander (now Captain) “Copper”
Morrow, at present in command of
cruiser Australia. Morrow joined the
Navy a few months after Voyager was
{Continued on next page.)


m
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENS
Always reliable
Obtainable In
10’s & 20’s
P?<xSS';?y
m
4201
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
born, took her bridge in 1938, and drove
her till 1941, when he shifted to Arunta
“Drove” is right. Under Morrow’s
captaincy Voyager steamed hundreds of
thousands of miles, bombarding, escort-
ing, sub-hunting—and fighting-off subs,
high- and low-level bombers, all that a
triumphantly savage enemy could throw
against her. Three days after Mussolini
declared for Hitler, Voyager beat the life
out of one of his submarines, the first
Itie sunk in the war.
She was in and out of Tobruk scores of
times (usually paired with Stuart or
Waterhen), and in and out of the evacua-
tion of Greece. In 1941 she was ordered
home, refitted, then steamed north. The
sandbank clutched her while she was
running close inshore to land Australian
guerrilla reinforcements.
Her successor, though yet a shell, is a
young cruiser by comparison—close on
3000 tons, 50,000 horsepower, 36 knots.
And guns—from a radar control-room
below waterline a radar-operator will peer
into a fluorescent screen, sight a “pip”
which represents a radar-echo from a
plane perhaps 40 miles away, turn a
wooden wheel (wooden to allow his
fingers greater sensitivity) and train the
director above the bridge on to the target.
The 4. Sin. dual-purpose guns in their
gas-proof turrets follow the director in-
stantly—all this by remote power-control,
with no man but the radar-operator so
far concerned. In the turrets a loading-
number will drop shell and cordite on
the loading-tray. He puffs a lever. The
tray swings over in rear of the open
breech, a rammer power-rams shell and
cordite, withdraws, the tray comes back
clear and the breech shuts —all in one
lever movement.
Along her lean flanks will be mounted
a viper’s-nest of close-range a.-a. weapons
—sets of twin Bofors and multi-barrelled
pom-poms, compared to old Voyager’s
single rorn-pom and Lewis guns,
Stanumg before the beribboned cham-
pagne-bottle, Mrs, Menzies, though per-
haps she may not have realised it, was
the successor of a long line of priestesses
who had once named Phoenician ships,
bathing their prows in the red blood of
human sacrifice. Today the christening
ceremony follows the same lines, for
“blood” read “wine.”
“I name this ship Voyager, May God’s
protecting care be over all who sail in
her.”
The bottle swung; splashed against
the stem. A guillotine dropped, cutting
two wires which released a counterweight.
Slowly at first, gathering speed, her anti-
fouling paint dark against the clean light
grey of her uppers, Voyager slipped stem-
wards. She hit the water —as behoves a
destroyer—with scarcely a ripple. The
tugs grabbed her. Riding high, with none
of the tonnage of engines, guns and equip-
ment which will bury her huge clover-
leaves of phosphor-bronze deep in the
water, she was towed to the fitting-out
basin. They snuggled her alongside a
salty Tribal, in for refit.
The crowd of colors left; Cockatoo
slept in the afternoon sun. While, per-
haps, the Tribal whispered to her new
berth-mate of blue-enamelled South Seas,
of grey, smoking, wind-whipped wastes,
of the shock of full broadsides, and of
the exhilaration of 30 slicing knots into
respectful seas.
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal “Labor” has decided to pocket
the insult.
There is always room for a little rivalry
among friends; and most Australians,
while appreciating the tremendous con-
tribution America has made to the
common defence of the democracies, will
derive a slightly malicious pleasure from
the surprise with which the American
Press greeted the announcement that
Britain had not only produced an atom-
bomb some time ago, but also had the
plant necessary for regular production.
U.S. opinion had been more or less along
the lines that that stage of development
could only be attained by a country with
unlimited resources or with unlimited
control over its citizens. Britain, having
neither, was out of the race. Now they
are beginning to wonder whether the Old
Dart isn’t really leading the field.
After getting over their initial shock
U.S. papers took the sensible line that the
announcement was “one up for our side,”
“New York Times” commenting that
“once more the balance of power in the
world shifts and this time in our favor.”
No comment was forthcoming from the
Kremlin.
In Britain, surprise at the actual news
was almost secondary to that at the
revelation that all the work had been
done under the Socialist Government.
Due credit must be given to Attlee and
Co. for carrying the project through, but
the news makes the Morrison election-
time policy of trying to tie the “war-
monger” label on the Conservatives if not
“Machiavellian,” as Churchill described
it, then at least incongruous.
S’Artie, back from London and look-
ing a whole lot fitter than when he went
away, doesn’t . agree with rumors that
have him on the point of retiring. His
latest word is that he will stay in politics
as long as his party wants him.
The point about Evatt’s explanations
of Manus is not whether or not it was, or
is now, a potentially important strategic
site, or whether Evatt, when Minister, was
right or wrong in refusing U.S. requests
to develop it as an American naval base.
The point is that Evatt, trying to drive a
bargain with U.S.A., rebuffed the Ameri-
cans on the plea that it was vital for
Australian defence purposes and then
did nothing whatever towards putting it
in order for such use.
If the latest Gallup Poll is any guide
the Commonwealth Government has
gained a little ground since November —
“Labor” support has fallen from 48 per
cent, to 47 per cent., L.C.P. improved
from 38 per cent, to 42 per cent., and
undecided votes have drifted from 13
per cent, down to 10 per cent. The
improvement should continue and
accelerate as the country discovers how
cockeyed Dr. Evatt and his daily-Press
supporters were in their views on the
Budget _and the heavy defence pro-
gramme.
There’s no doubt about the ability of
the Comrades to stretch the meaning of
words. One of the delegates visiting
Australia for the “Youth” Carnival is
W. Gallacher, Communist M.P. for West
Fife until his defeat in 1950. Willie is
rising 71.
Preselection ballots for candidates for
the next Victorian Legislative Council
have produced some upsets in both
Liberal and “Labor” ranks. Frank
Beaurepaire, who has held one of the
Monash seats in the Council for ten
years, has been passed over in favor of
A. W. Wilde, and another L.C.P. man,
C. E. Isaac, has lost the nomination for
his S.-e. Province seat. Beaurepaire is
at present abroad and hasn’t commented
yet, but Isaacs intends to stand without
endorsement. A bigger surprise is the
rejection of “Labor” leaders P. J. Ken-
nelly and W. J. Beckett. Kennelly,
Federal secretary of the A.L.P., has rep-
resented Melbourne West in the Council
since 1938, and Beckett has held a Mel-
bourne seat since 1914. A. J. Bailey,
who defeated Kennelly, is an industrial-
grouper, and claims he opposed Kennelly
because the latter was lukewarm to the
groups.
Reported that in the course of a caucus
argument on the Salaries Bill Dan Curtin
accused Eddie Ward of making the party
executive look cheap. How its executive
looks is a matter for the A.L.P., but in
future no one will be able to say Parlia-
ment looks cheap.
In case it should be thought from some
Press reports that Eddie Ward’s opposi-
tion in Caucus to the acceptance of the
St. Nicholas report meant that he was
opposed to a rise in members’ salaries it
is only fair to him to point out that this
was not the case. His protest was that
the extra dough would not compensate
members for the loss of many privileges ;
Ministers were getting “the cream” and
private members nothing.
Air services in N. S. Wales are to enjoy
the inestimable blessing of Government
“co-ordination,” according to Transport
Minister Sheahan. The purpose of this
is “to give the best possible service to
the public,” but there’s more to it than
that. Sheahan wants “to see that air-
craft do not drain away the legitimate
profits and business of the railways.” The
part about business is clear enough ; but
how do you drain away profits that don’t
exist?
Those fretting about increasing Aus-
tralia’s farm output ought to consult the
wizards of the Sydney Milk Board. A
fortnight or so ago they announced that
dry weather would mean milk-rationing
because of a failing supply. A little later
cuts on milk deliveries were imposed.
Then it rained. Next day the cut was
restored because “good rains in the milk
areas had resulted in greatly increased
supplies.” Which must mean either that
the grass sprang up overnight or there
was more water for the milk.
Are the foundations of the A.C.T.U.
shaky? A.L.P. president Ferguson says
“Yea” and A.C.T.U. president Monk
says “Nay.” Ferguson’s argument for
shaky foundations is that “active Com-
munist-controlled key-industry unions are
the actual strength of the council” and
that if the threat to expel them if they
don’t cancel their affiliation with the Red
W.F.T.U. is carried out they may break
away, leaving the A.C.T.U. “pitifully im-
potent.” To this Monk replies that the
council now includes reps, from more
unions than at any time in its history,
viz., 92.
Ferguson’s own Australian Railways
Union is one of the five affected. He is
secretary of the N. S. Wales branch and
a senior vice-president of the Federal
council. A.L.P. men are in a majority
on the N. S. Wales executive, but Reds
control the Federal show. As N. S.
Wales secretary he is opposed to the
Federal body’s tie-up with the W.F.T.U.,
but as a member of the Federal executive
he, of course, abides by the majority’s
decision. This sort of set-up is child’s-
play to Pooh-Bah Ferguson, who has
more jobs than there are days in the
week. And his branch, although anti-
Communist, would oppose suspension of
the union by the A.C.T.U. because “it
would interfere with the work of the
N. S. Wales branch.” In “Labor”
councils, when expediency and principle
clash, expediency wins every time.
Doc. Evatt on American foreign-
policy changes: “It is very difficult to
keep up with such a kaleidoscopic
policy.” Nearly as difficult as keeping
up with one that changes its plumage in
mid-flight.
The wheat crop about to be sown will
be the last under the existing “stabilisa-
tion” scheme, and Federal Commerce
Minister McEwan says the growers will
be asked to say whether or not they want
another. If they do they’re gluttons for
punishment.
Jhe Commonwealth has announced a
payment of £15,750,000 back-money to
wheatgrowers. The general assumption
is that there are 50,000 “licenced”
growers, though the latest statistics make
it a little over 45,000. Anyway, if there
are 50,000 they’ll get over £3OOO each, if
45.000 a bit more —subject to tax.
Thieves broke into J. T. Lang’s home
at Auburn (Sydney) the other day, but
they missed the gold scissors Jack used
to cut the ribbon to open Sydney Harbor
Bridge—after it had been tied together
again following the De Groot charge.
So far nobody has been able to find the
key the Big Feller used round about the
same time to close the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Savings Bank.
Among the decisions at the N.A.T.O.
Lisbon conference, as reported in U.S.A.,
is an agreement by “a substantial
majority” of the 14 member-nations to
retaliate against the Soviet by imposing
restrictions in their countries on the free-
dom of movement of Soviet diplomatic
representatives similar to those imposed
on foreign representatives in Russia. If
Australia adopted this policy it would
mean that so long as the Australian
Minister is prohibited from moving out-
side Moscow the Soviet Minister would
not be able to travel outside the confines
of Canberra. And high time it was done,
too.
Coal-production figures on the N. S.
Wales fields have got away to a promising
start this year—1,462,600 tons to Feb-
ruary 16, which is an improvement of
367.000 tons on last year. About two-
thirds of the increase came from under-
ground mines and one-third from open-
cuts.
The McGrrrrr land-bandits, announc-
ing the “acquisition” of 13 more country
properties for soldier-settlement, told re-
porters they would pay “prices in excess
of 15 p.c. above 1942 values.” This
doesn’t mean the bandits have reformed ;
it means they’ve got scared of the mount-
ing resentment of their methods. The
nearer the next election comes the more
scared they’ll be.
Original aim of Commonwealth land
tax was to persuade owners of large areas
to subdivide them. That’s why the tax
didn’t begin until the value of the property
passed the £5OOO-mark. Now, with the
value of almost any property above that
figure, the tax is still being imposed on
that basis. A Government with a sense
of fair play would readjust limits in a
matter of this kind; but what Govern-
ment thinks of fair play in taxation
methods?
It was a parcel by mail, weighing about
a pound. It came from North Queens-
land and was accompanied by a note:
“The stuff in the parcel enclosed is what
we pay £1 os. Bd. a bushel for in Cairns.
Please do what you like in the matter.”
The presence of some grains of wheat
amongst the cocky-chaff, stalks and lumps
of mouldy matter suggest that what the
buyer thought he was getting was poultry-
feed. A bushel of wheat is supposed to
weigh at least 601 b. The bushel that
sample came from would be struggling
to make 301 b. On that basis the Cairns
man is paying £2 Is. 4d. a bushel for
wheat for poultry.


AN OLD-WORLD “TOUCH.”
you look like, a yourtf! -feltou) cuho’d have
a bit of money In his pocket . Would
you care to jom u& In the hostelry
J u . / / ''7 # «/
acrogg the road. (
CJdxde. Qudte. A [o harm done..
tio Hianks, old chap* I
w don't drinks/'
tti£ 3^dxe . cL
he exalte welcome , yon hfigw*


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
4 and PERTH
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
ẁ
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
ẃ
ẅ
<2 HUNTKH STBETr. SYDNEY.
£3B/10/-
12» % sales tax
*
BW 8631.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOISdj
dsiuxn&vjr
prtuu
BRW
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BUTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
The Flood of Imports
The rate of importing by Aus-
tralia from abroad has not yet
slowed down. Our imports for
the month of January were, in
fact, a record at £118 million.
Only in October .of last year,
when imports of £111 million
were recorded, has this figure
been approached. By December
they had receded to £68 million,
and it was hoped in official
circles that they would continue
to fall. That hope has now been
demolished, though it is con-
tended that January was a “freak
month.”
This official contention is
possibly quite justified. British
exporters, with the dollar market
contracting, have no doubt
pressed forward with Australian
orders, spurred on by the possi-
bility of cancellations in view
of the general slackness of busi-
ness in this country. And many
Australian importers have been
cancelling overseas commitments
wherever they possibly can.
The majority of them have been
gravely embarrassed by the
accelerated flow of deliveries
from abroad since U.S. demand
fell away.
The credit restrictions in Aus-
tralia, the consumer-resistance
to high prices and the threatened
mortality of some overstocked
businesses are collectively
hardly likely to be encouraging
imports at the January rate.
The larger portion of the huge
January total was probably very
unwelcome so far as its con-
signees were concerned. It is
almost a certainty that present
overseas orders for textiles,
fancy-goods, motor-cars and
many other things are not a tithe
of the January rate of imports.
But for how long will the
pent-up force of previous order-
ing continue to swell import
figures and drain our London
funds away? Probably February
figures will give some indication
as to what the answer will be.
Goods arriving in Australian
ports during the past two months
were no doubt augmented by
consignments accelerated by
reports that there might be some
Government restriction of
imports before long. In any
case it can be taken for granted
that unfilled orders from Britain
are now being executed at a rate
unusual for United Kingdom
businessmen.
On February 20 the Common-
wealth Bank’s holding of gold
and balances abroad was £328
million, compared with a peak
of £720 million in June of last
year. These funds were still
going down, though at a decreas-
ing rate. The adverse trade
balance during January was £54
million, compared with a deficit
of £lB million for December,
£3l million in November, £54
million in October and £55
million in September, Total
adverse trade balance for the
seven months to January 31 was
£268 million. The decline in
London funds has been prob-
ably £IOO million more than that
in the same period. Some of
this may be the result of pay-
ment for goods before their
entry, but a great deal of the
excess is the result of invisible
items that enter into our
balance of payments every year.
Just how the dollar loan from
the World Bank enters into the
picture is not clear, but during
the six months to December 31
our purchases from the U.S.A,
totalled £40.8 million, compared
with £25 million during the same
period of the preceding financial
year. We bought £10.7-million-
wortb from Canada, against
£7.8-million-worth. Until the
dollar loan is added to our
London funds, imports paid for
out of its proceeds increase the
value of our overseas purchases
and may possibly give a distorted
picture of our overseas-funds
position.
The question of import-
control is becoming increasingly
pressing. The Government is
not keen on it so long as it can
be avoided, and the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce, many of
whose members must be embar-
rassed by the volume of imported
stocks they have on hand at
present, is nevertheless opposed
to import restrictions also. The
Associated Chambers of Manu-
factures favor restriction of
imports, leaving it to the Gov-
ernment to decide whether
restrictions take the shape of
“licences, quotas or increased
tariffs.”
In New Zealand the Govern-
ment has announced that
imports are going to be cut, in-
cluding Government imports for
hydroelectric and railway
schemes. But a close reading of
th,e report by Prime Minister
Holland on his return from the
London Finance Minister’s con-
ference suggests that these cuts
will be mainly in goods from
dollar and other hard-currency
areas. One thing agreed on by
the Ministers in London was that
the sterling countries should all
start living on their own
resources and stop borrowing
except for capital development.
The serious factor in the sudden
deterioration of the sterling
countries’ hard-currency posi-
tion had been the slump in their
five principal dollar-producing
commodities —wool prices by
50 p.c., tin by 45 p.c., jute by
40 p.c., rubber by 30 p.c. and
cocoa by 9 p.c.
A question of importance to
Australia is whether, in view of
the vanished sellers’ market and
the large accumulation of stocks
at this end, overseas manufac-
turers will consider price-
reductions in order to continue
selling to Australian consumers.
It is unlikely that woollen goods
will be cheaper from Britain for
some time in view of the fact
that wool bought at the very top
of the market last year will only
now be coming forward in
manufactured goods. But various
British and Continental goods
have undoubtedly been “loaded”
with a “prosperity” premium for
some time, and the query arises
as to whether this can now be
dropped or whether it will be
swallowed up by the increase in
costs that is still a world-wide
feature.
If import-licensing can be
avoided, so much the better. It
“Try and avoid the bumps, pilot; he's got a Weak
stomach."
will be far happier for a balance
to be achieved by natural
economic forces, which for the
moment are subject to a time-
lag on the importing side. The
next few months should show
a high export revenue, and there
is a probability that imports will
taper off. If they don’t, then
Government intervention seems
inevitable, subject to whatever
commitments we have under
various post-war international
agreements.
The Search for Oil
“Kerogen”: Behind “Petro’s”
comments on Lakes Entrance
(B. 16/1 / ’52) and “Lemon’s” (B.
23/l/’52) on the Papuan oil
search lie many obscure features
which lead up to the real issue
of how seriously is the oil hunt
in this part of the world being
taken. No one can blame the
Government for abandoning the
uneconomical pumping of oil at
Lakes Entrance under the condi-
tions to which it had degenerated
(any operator in any other oil-
field would have abandoned it
long ago). But the comment
about “diversion of the part
of the technical staff of
the Bureau of Mineral Resources
from the urgently required work
of collating and supplementary
data of the several States De-
partments of Mines on coal and
metalliferous ores to a forlorn
search for petroleum in an area
which has never attracted
responsible and experienced oil
companies” is hard to justify,
and seems quite besides the point
at issue, viz.—is there any possi-
bility whatever that any sedi-
mentary area not yet pre-
liminarily surveyed has oil
potentialities?
To discover oil here seems to
me and many others much more
important than concentrating on
coal and metalliferous data of
which we have abundant
evidence of value for develop-
ment.
The tragedy of the whole
matter is the general apathy of
the Australian public and the
big business interests to the con-
tinent’s oil (and gas) potential—
now considered much better
than it was at the period when
money was being scattered like
water in all sorts of unlikely
ventures.
The fact that the Bureau of
Mineral Resources is not suffi-
ciently staffed or equipped to do
justice to the effort itself does
not condemn it, and, with what
facilities it has, it is at least
doing something.
The revival of the Oil Bounty
Act and the offering of a huge
reward for discovering oil
(and/or gas) in commercial
quantities (say £1 million) should
have results, and to be com-
mercial such discoveries would
not necessarily have to be on
such a grand scale as those in
other and more remote parts of
the world.
That some people, including
one oil group that has suffered
recent vicissitudes formidable
enough to kill many of its pro-
jects entirely, are still sufficiently
courageous to go on drilling in
Papua under conditions that are
probably worse than anywhere
else, and at a cost which is fan-
tastic, should be an object-lesson
to those still obsessed with the
idea that there is no oil in
this part of the world.
Swans, the Sydney builders’-
hardware organisation, reduced
its interim div. from 6 p.c. to
5 p.c. (for five years the rate for
the full year has been 15 p.c.).
Expectations this term are for a
p.c. distribution. Last sale
before the cut in the interim
was 595. No business was done
in the co.’s scrip for several
weeks until a few days ago, when
a seller accepted 525. 9d. At
that figure the yield would be
£4 15s. per cent, if a 12£ p.c.
distribution is made. Though
the co. is now following a
cautious financial policy, condi-
tions in the builders’-hardware
trade are reported to be still
brisk.
Frederic Ash (Newcastle and
N.S.W. country towns), like
Swans, paid 15 p.c. last year —
5 p.c. interim, 10 p.c. final. Its
5 p.c. interim is unchanged. The
shares can be bought at 445. in
the present depressed market, to
yield a shade under 7 p.c. if the
15 p.c. div. is maintained,
5.7 p.c. if the rate drops to
12i p.c. Last year the co.
earned 25 p.c. on its capital. It
has been established for close on
a century, and was floated in
1951.
* * * *
There has been a slump to 30s.
(from a highest of 555. in 1951)
in Carpet Manufacturers’ shares.
The interim div. has been
passed, though some profit was
earned during the half-year to
December. The position will be
considered again after June 30.
Last full term the div.
was covered comfortably by
earnings written at 25.9 p.c.
on capital. But in the
six months to Dec. 31 last
imports of carpets and linos,
rose to £10.5 million, compared
with £6.6 million in the cor-
responding period of the
previous year, and retailers are
having difficulty in moving all
their stocks,
* * * *
Last week’s quick recovery:
Batons and Baldwins ords., from
225. 6d. to 28s, 3d,
A “Wobble” in N. Zealand
Since business prosperity in
New Zealand began to wobble
under tighter credit, slack
consumer-demand and the im-
port glut, business-leaders and
organisations have been gun-
ning for the Reserve Bank,
which they regard as the villain
of the piece.
This belligerent attitude was
in no wise calmed when gov-
ernor E. C. Fussell, of the R. 8.,
broke silence a little over two
months after the bank issued its
order to halt credit expansion
and came out into the open late
in February with the first de-
fence of the new policy.
The moment was not well
chosen, for Maoriland taxpayers
were then trying to face the
biggest income-tax demands
they’d ever had, with the zero
date for payment at the end of
February, and Chambers of
Commerce came back with the
retort that if the banks didn’t
relax many firms wouldn’t be
able to meet tax demands.
They charged the R.B. with
aggravating the trade and
financial crisis, or “slump,” and
warned that many cos., which
until lately had been “first-class”
risks, had been transferred to the
“doubtful” list through inability
of weaker concerns to settle
accounts with them. If the
liquidation process wasn’t
slowed down to allow more time
to quit excess stocks there’d be
a lot more trouble than the R.B.


"The Safest Investment
in Australia . • •
says Mr. M. C. Alder \ Deputy Chairman of
The Life Offices 9 Association for Australasia.
S 3•: f# '•
hmmm
sss
1
ass
m
t:
■
I
Commenting on Security Loan
investment, Mr. M. C. Alder
said: " 'Our lives pass while we
are planning what to do with
them’ wrote a famous student of
human nature. How true that is
of most of us. We plan and
dream of things we would like
to do. Too many of us take
no practical steps to make them
realities. Our future is what we
make it, and so the wise thing to
do is to start saving today for
security by investing in the 15 th
Security Loan.
"Security Bonds are the safest investment
in Australia. They are backed by the entire
resources of the Commonwealth and are
repayable in cash in full on the date of
maturity. In the meantime, reasonable
interest is received regularly, and such
interest is subject to an Income Tax
concession of 2/- in the £l. Bonds
are assets readily saleable at any
time.”
By making an advance subscription to the 15tb Security Loan, opening on
March 18, you can give yourself, immediately, the benefits outlined by Mr. Alder.
10-13 Year Securities will bear interest at 3per annum, 3-Year Securities
at 2% per annum. Interest will accrue from the date your funds are lodged
at a bank. See your bank, savings bank or stockbroker immediately.
Make an Advance Subscription to the
15” SECURITY LOAN
OPENING MARCH 18
LOAN FACTS; (1) The Loan will provide for conversion of maturing Commonwealth Securities,
and help to pay for public works and services of the Commonwealth and the States.
(2) Advance subscriptions may be made through any Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
(3) 10-13 Year Securities will bear interest at 3|% per annum. 3-Year Securities will bear interest
at 2% per annum. (4) Minimum subscription for 10-13 Year Securities is £lO of Bonds or £lOO
of Inscribed Stock. Investors who already hold £lOO of Stock may subscribe £lO or more. For
3-Year Securities the minimum subscription is £l,OOO of Bonds or Inscribed Stock. (5) Repayment
in full at maturity of face value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.
CONVERT YOUR MATURING SECURITIES: If you hold 2% Commonwealth Securities maturing
on April 15, 1952, you may convert your holdings into the 15 th Security Loan,
5L2.144.22
and the trading-banks had
reckoned on.
By this time tighter credit
policy was clearly beginning to
whip up an ominous snowballing
tendency in channels where
overdrafts were stretched and
concerns were in danger of going
to the wall, in spite of the still-
healthy background to
prosperity as New Zealand’s ex-
ports flowed in record volume.
Firms in deep water, or on the
brink, were provoked by gov-
ernor Fussell’s picture of
wonderful long-range prospects,
which they feared they might not
be there to see. Said the gov-
ernor—
For us in New Zealand it is good
to know that we are still a young and
vibrant country, with the first page of
our history not yet turned. We have
around us a world with a lusty
appetite, clamoring for the products
of our soil and the fruits of our toil.
The outlook for the future is bright,
and it is brighter the further we look
ahead.
Maoriland’s import-b oo m
spending reached a rate of £25
million a month, £lO million
more than the country could
afford to keep up with
for long, and it was this
unbalance that the Reserve
Bank, backed by the Govern-
ment, was out to correct. New
Zealand had to “shorten sail,”
and, according to governor
Fussell, would have to hold to
its present course until the im-
port flood subsided and every-
thing was back on a level again.
He had this bit of advice and
rather cold comfort for business-
men ;
We should not exaggerate the long-
term significance of temporary mal-
adjustments in the supply and demand
for goods, imported or locally pro-
duced. The present spate of imports,
with consequent glut and buyer-resist-
ance in some directions, is not the
harbinger of a slump. It could be
described rather as a temporary com-
mercial “speed wobble” following a
too-ready response to the accelerator
which was applied by last year’s
wool prices.
One reason the governor gave
for the Reserve Bank’s increased
stress on advance-control was
the existence in New Zealand of
a widespread condition of “over-
full employment.” If advances
were expanded there would be
an enlarged monetary demand
for goods and services “without
providing work for one extra
man, and without increasing the
over-all supply of goods and
services.” If production ex-
panded in one direction this
could be only at the expense of
corresponding contraction or
delayed production in another
direction. Everyone was in
work, so standards could not be
raised by providing more
opportunities for employment.
However, with the scope of exist-
ing hours actually worked, and
within the general framework of
the 40-hour week, there was
plenty of opportunity for doing
more and better work by putting
more zest into it.
After the governor had
spoken all but a few Maori-
landers were left puzzled as to
why Maoriland had got into
such a mess so quickly, and
whether such drastic medicine
was necessary. The untold story
was the origin of the trouble.
Mr. Fussell had pointed to the
wool boom, which had taken
everyone by surprise. But there
was lack of co-ordination in
New Zealand anti-inflationary
policies from the time the Hol-
land Government, six months
after it came into power, took
the bold step of slashing sub-
sidies from an annual rate of
nearly £lB million to a mere
£6 million, only to relent before
the year was out and allow the
total to mount quickly again.
The vital mistake was in
allowing internal inflation to
continue unchecked for a year
after the door was thrown open
to imports, and in placing New
Zealand in the position of hav-
ing to take what was virtually
panic action at the end of 1951.
When the steadying influence of
import-licensing was removed by
the Board of Trade, the Reserve
Bank should have been called in
immediately to take over the
controls and apply a new steady-
ing influence, particularly in
view of the abnormal growth in
spending-power due to wool
millions.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Sebak”; Reports of an attempt at a
prison-break in Korea reminded me of a
riot I once saw at a girls’ home near
Sydney. Though bloodless, it was quite
spectacular. As a maintenance-worker
—and therefore a nonenmbatant —I took
refuge with my fel ■ v-cowards in a
basem''”* workshop. K .vas proof against
flying missiles auk . u offered a worm’s-
eye view of the battle. From there we
witnessed a classical fighting retreat. In
a “brave un-
broken line”
the last band
of guerrillas
backed away
from a team
of slowly-
advancing
police men.
Back, back, the
girls fell. Sud-
denly the line broke; there was a wild
flurry, a dash for yeranda-posts, and
before the amazed Johnops could com-
plete an encircling movement the
Amazons were on the roof —having
shinned up like a bunch of possums. It
was a master-move. Immediately slates
torn from the roof came whizzing down
with the deadliness of boomerangs. The
law’s strategic withdrawal lacked dignity.
But the constable who procured a ladder
and stormed the battlements deserved the
Police Medal. Instead, he nearly got a
funeral-notice —the defenders launched
his ladder. Heavy armament won the
day; fire-hoses have a longer range than
slates.
* ♦ * *
“Melbn”: They’re selling imported
rabbits now in Melbourne. The spread-
ing of myxomatosis amongst the bunnies
has scared housewives, so shopkeepers
are attaching the magic word to their
sale-cards.
* * * *
“Bo”: Lately I have had a glimpse of
some of the sad realities that flow from
what a prominent Sydney businessman
despairingly termed this “profitless
prosperity.” My butcher, for instance, has
told me, his voice almost choking with
sobs, that it is scarcely worth his while
keeping open ; what with the awful price
he has to pay for meat from the carcass-
people, there’s simply nothing in being
in business these days. Poor devil,
through letting his customers have a two-
bite short-loin chop for a miserable one-
and-threepence and a pound of sole-
leather middle-cut rump for as low as
4s. 6d. he has been forced to sell his 1938
Y 8 and get a 1949 Buick, and he wasn’t
able to put more than £BOO worth of im-
provements into his chrome-and-tile palace
last year. My delicatessen man, too, told
me fervently how he wished every-
thing would drop in price and so save
him from imminent bankruptcy. Cer-
tainly he is the first imminent-bankrupt I
have met who has been able, while
slowly going broke, to build a large block
of seaside flats. I can only assume he
must have been able to raise a loan, using
his large annual trading loss as collateral
security. Apparently the large roll of
notes I see him taking into the bank every
afternoon are dummies, and he’s just
doing it for practice against the day when
things look up a bit.
* * * «
“Conda”; Sydney “Herald” was a bit
out of its depth when it reported of
frigate Murchison, lately from Korea and
the Han River —“At times the discon-
certing call ‘one and a quarter fathoms’
from the man with the lead-line meant
they had less than Bft. of water.” It
must have been disconcerting—Murchison
draws about 12ft.
* * # *
“Mister McKenzie”: Destruction of
Shepheard’s Hotel, Cairo, means that
some intriguing mysteries will never be
cleared up. From time to time during
the pub’s existence guests had departed
with their light luggage, leaving their
heavy baggage to be called for or sent for
later. A surprising number seemed to
forget what they’d left behind, and after a
few months the unclaimed luggage would
be transferred to a lockup-room in the
basement. Over the years a great stack of
steamer-trunks, gladstone-bags and suit-
cases accumulated there, but the hotel
never resorted to the practice of selling
unclaimed luggage “to pay storage-
charges,” and the management remained
deaf to all suggestions that an examina-
tion might produce evidence as to
ownership—and perhaps quite a lot of
valuables as well. The reply was always
to the effect that the gear had been
entrusted to Shepheard’s Hotel, and that
trust would not be betrayed. It is quite
likely that the fire consumed mainly a
lot of out-of-date clothing, but there must
have been some valuables lost, too.
“V. Cluse”: If “K.R.” really moves
about Sydney and suburbs and hasn’t
seen a bottle-o since the war (B. 27/2/’52)
he must be singularly unobservant. I
travel daily back and forth through King’s
Cross and almost any day one can see
some of the tribe on the move, some
pushing handcarts, others using horse-
power, In my own suburb we are visited
on the average once a month by a
bloke driving a spring-cart who pays us
the munificent sum of 6d, a dozen for
empties. Perhaps “K.R.” has been misled
through reading reports of the day-by-
day statements at the liquor inquiry,
which could lead one to suppose that
the only place to find an empty beer-
bottle is at a nightclub.
♦ * * *
“Spokeshave”: A most unusual
scholastic specimen is Gilbert Hardy, of
Kentucky University, who was con-
fronted with the task of writing a 60,000-
word thesis for his Doctorate of
Philosophy degree. Most undergraduates
select some remote subject and write that
up. I knew one Melbourne undergrad
who chose an early nineteenth-century
poetess nobody had ever heard of, paid
daily visits to the Public Library for a
“We'll have to give it the works , boy. You can hardly hear us on the
A.B.C. ”
couple of weeks to read the few refer-
ences he could find about her and
rescued her from oblivion by writing a
glowing thesis of 200 pages which got
him an M A.; and I was once asked to
ghost a thesis on Chinese social life in
the Ming Dynasty for a Chinese con-
sulate official who wanted an Australian
degree to take back home. Mr. Hardy
did it the hard way. He chose to live
for a year at Tatura, near Shepparton
(Vic.), and study the habits of the people.
His researches brought him to the con-
clusion that the Tatura girls have person-
ality and are charming, that the women
live longer than their husbands, that they
do a lot of dancing, and that next to the
churches, or parallel with them, the pubs
are socially the most important institu-
tions in Tatura because the farmers can
get together there and develop their
social conscience. Probably anybody
“What made you think I was a mirage ?”
could have told him that developing your
social conscience in that way is a general
Australian habit. However, the Taturans
liked the American sociologist as well as
he liked them and gave him a send-off,
after which he went home to present his
60,000-worder.
* * * *
“Banksia”; Use of the world “woman,”
as mentioned by “Pomona” (B. 13/2/’52),
calls up another term which can get
properly under the skin. Leaving the
train at a provincial station I noticed
a flashily-dressed young lady or woman
in difficulty with a heavy case in the
rack, I carried it out of the station and
had just put it down when a bloke or
gentleman bustled along. “Ha! Here
you ape. Give us your grip,” he said.
Then, “Gee! Did you carry that?”
“No,” replied the lady or woman or tart,
“this person carried it for me.” Later,
when a young medico or quack, after put-
ting me through a tough ordeal, directed
the nurse to look after “this person” the
term was as unpleasant as his instruments,
and I concluded he had skimped the
course on bedside manners. Being the
third-person singular and undefined does
not appeal; one might just as well be
called "It."
* * * *
“Clooter”: Henceforth seek me not
in the haunts which know me now, for
just as soon as I can talk the missus into
it, sell the furniture, dispose of the cat
and roll a swag I’m heading for some-
where slightly north-west of Alice
Springs. X had successfully armored
myself against the slings and arrows of
modern suburban life and had deluded
myself into the belief that science or
advertising or politics could harry me no
further ; now I learn that “a wrist radio-
receiver powered by heat from the human
body is nearly ready for full-scale pro-
duction.” Heaven help us! It was bad
enough when people began carrying
battery-sets about with them, so that at
the cricket-match or on the beach or in
the bus-queue our ears were suddenly
outraged by the latest emanation from
Tinpan Alley ; but what sort of an inferno
will arrive on earth when people start
wearing these things! Typists will have
to learn to type with one hand while they
hold the other wrist to their ear, half the
nation will go about carrying one arm at
the half-salute, ask a man the time and
you’ll have to wait while he holds his
wrist up to catch the pips from some
station or other. No, the more I think of
it the more certain it becomes that the
Dead Heart is about to increase its
population by at least one.
* * * :?
“X.M.N.”: “C.G.” (B. 13/2/’52) would
find himself at variance with Churchill on
the use of “the” in front of ship’s names,
as favored by Cunningham. Consider
Churchill’s minute expressing his content-
ment with the First Lord’s disposition of
the heavy ships in the West: Repulse and
Renown to maintain the blockade at
Scapa ; Rodney, Nelson and Valiant to
cover the Island; Hood and Ark Royal
to join Resolution at Gibraltar. It’s easy
to read and straight to the point, but try
with the word “the” in front of every
name and it becomes a tongue-twister.
* * * *
“Ben Ari”: For the benefit of punters
who heed the significant pedigree here’s
a twisty one from a Westralian paper.
Summarising Stud Book detail, the breed-
ing of a recent favorite on local tracks
was quoted as “.... out of Concoil, a
mare by Contino from Ayrcoil by
Ayrville from Uncoil by Coil.” After
riding horses with kinks in their pedigrees
it’s no wonder the traditional jockey can’t
lie straight in his bed.
sp % ♦
R. J. Jenkins: “Hampton” (B.
20/2/’52) asks what became of the
Jenkins family of Berkeley. I am the last
male member of the fourth generation,
and on the death of my father in 1914 I
came to Sydney. The library was then
intact until it was sold with the estate
in that year. The cemetery was the private
burying-ground of our family, and was
later taken over by the Church of
England. Why the house was called “The
Ghost House” I do not know.
“F.M.”: Among the first grants made
by Governor Macquarie in the Illawarra
in 1817 were those to Robert Jenkins,
1000 acres, and David Allen, 2200 acres.
My mother used to tell me how she
remembered the Jenkins family driving
into Wollongong in their carriage. On
the box sat the liveried coachman, a full-
blooded native of the Illawarra. That
was about 80 years ago. I think that
some of the family were buried in an
old cemetery just south of Crown-street,
Wollongong. When I looked for this
cemetery some time back I could not
find it, though I can distinctly remember
it as an overgrown wilderness about 30
years ago.
THE ORTHODOX BOMB.
“Most British scientists believe that the atomic
weapon to be tested in Australia this year is an
orthodox plutonium bomb.”
Said Colonel Blimp, “Can this be true?
They re coming round to my point of view;
All the scientists, begad,
Echo the cry of my dear old dad:
‘Up and atom! Up and atom I’ —
It won the day at Serjngapatam,
And I don’t care whether it’s to or from.
The only good bomb is an orthodox bomb.”
A grammarian said, “It’s well, dear friend,
To consider one’s means as well as one’s end;
One can be reserved and proud
And not bombastic, rude or loud,
Preserving one’s atomic schisms
From heterodox Americanisms,
And meet one’s fate with British aplomb,
Provided pne’s bombed by an orthodox bomb.”
A moralist said, “Let’s play the game;
We’re bound to win it, all the same.
If any enemy gave us socks,
That would hardly be orthodox.
People, no matter how debased,
Like being treated in good taste,
So let our boast be that the Com.
Preferred to be bombed by an orthodox bomb.”
The orthodox bomb can end your cares,
Aches and pains, and dry your tears;
Orthodox bombs, when in their prime,
Treat eighty-thousand at a time;
Orthodox bombs should always be
Sold with half-a-pound of tea—
Take a little one home to Mom:
Let’s all buy an orthodox bomb!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Fairf”; Back in the gold-rush days
the diggers in the Lambing Flat riots
complained that their Chinese victims
could “live on the smell of an oil-rag.”
Early British migrants had the same tag
applied to their living standards. Then
came Italian and Maltese market-
gardeners—to be labelled with the same
accusation. And still it goes on. Quot-
ing a youth behind me in the train: “I
know I’m not supposed to talk about
what goes on at the bank, but fair
dinkum, these New Australians bank
three times as much as anyone else. They
must live on the smell of an oil-rag.”
That brings me to my brain-child. In
factories today there must be thousands
and thousands of oil-rags; now, if a
fellow could float a company and corner
them all! What a sejt-up. No loss, no
deterioration, no diminishing of assets.
Why, even at a penny a sniff there’d be
a fortune in it!
♦ V * *
“Jasby”: Recently the cables flashed
from America a story of how a man
identified in a police line-up by a witness
as the one who had bashed and robbed
him was given the benefit of the doubt
when his lawyer produced his twin
brother. The witness had to admit he
could not swear which of the two had
attacked him. A club to which I once
belonged in Adelaide would not have been
stumped by a trifle like that. We
numbered a pair of twins among our
membership, and one of them was fined
for some minor breach of the rules.
Some time later the treasurer explained
his failure to collect the fine by saying
he didn’t know which one to dun, as he
couldn’t tell one from t’other. The con-
stitution of the club was thereupon
amended by adding a provision something
like this: “Where two members of the
club are twins fines imposed upon either
shall be deemed to be imposed on both
and each shall be fully liable for fines
imposed on the other.” The amendment
was carried by an overwhelming majority.
There were, in fact, only two dissenting
votes.
• • * *
“Pawang”: Dr. Barnett Gloss, the
British Labor M.P. who said that habitual
tea-drinkers were potential drug-addicts
and were digging their own graves, was
talking the same bunkum as the tea-
drinking Local Option people who say
the same thing about beer. Both parties
“Why do We have to go to Palm Beach every summer ?”
forget the inspirational factor. Detached
from its psychological component, beer
is a poison, and it can be demonstrated
in a laboratory that people who habitually
surround large quantities of it daily ought
logically have long since been dead.
Fortunately, or unfortunately, they live
as long as, or longer than, tea-drinkers
and water-drinkers ; one old lady of my
acquaintance still keeps a healthy interest
in beer at 94. Tea may not have as great
an inspirational effect as beer, and beer
hasn’t the same inspirational effect for
everybody. If the particular association
with which liquor is surrounded for you
is that it is a first step towards the gutter
or into hellfire and you drink a couple
and become sick, the inference is that
you have been poisoned, not by the
liquor, but by your associations. Most
Italians are horrified at the sight of Aus-
tralian children drinking tea. They think
the kiddies are being poisoned, whereas
if they saw them drinking wine they
“Were you expecting someone?”
would consider them on the highway to
health and strength.
* * * *
“O’Johnno”: In war-time we grew
accustomed to headlines such as to
“Enemy Routed” while our own forces
“Retired According to Plan” or “With-
drew for Strategic Reasons”; that was
part of the military-news-censor set-up.
Today we get it in the political arena ;
to read two papers of opposite opinion
is as good as hearing a Parliamentary-
circus session over the air. Now the
same twist has come in to the economic-
reporting field. One paper slates
“hoarders” of butter, who purchase a
couple of pounds and put it into the
refrigerator against a possible shortage
or a pending rise; another, mentioning
that certain butter-factories have good
stocks but are holding them in reserve.
until prices advance, commends this
“stockpiling” procedure. It’s all in the
point of view, but it looks as though we’ll
have to revise dictionary definitions,
* * * *
“Stunner”; Working on night-shift
in a small room, one of our blokes com-
plained that the heat from the incan-
descent-lamp made him so dopey he could
scarcely keep awake. His boss, a member
of the committee that attended to such
matters, had a fluorescent-lamp installed,
and the complainer was enthusiastic about
the new light and its coolness. “Never
get sleepy now,” he said. Imagine his
feelings when he saw the minutes of
the committee’s next meeting; his boss
had reported “Blink complains that since
the new light was installed he can’t get
a decent sleep on night-shift.”
* * * ♦
“Sackville”; Long ago I was struck by
the Celestial’s inability to keep up with
modern trends. In my youth Chinese
market-gardeners used to
pump water out of the
creek, run it in a weird
system of crude overhead
gutters for hundreds of
yards, then, instead of irri-
gating with it, allow the
water to gush into water-
holes from which it had to
be carried out again in huge
watering - cans slung on
shoulder-poles. When the
Italian market - gardener
came with modem methods
the numerous “Chows’
gardens” ceased to be part
of the local scene. Even the
vegetable John vanished.
The other day, in a Sydney
suburb, I saw the modem
Chinese fruit-oh. No more
does he drive a high-fronted
cart like a Spanish galleon ;
in its place is a new-model
utility. But it was the pro-
prietor’s business methods
that rocked my long-held
concepts about his race. He
marched up to front doors
carrying his basket in one
hand and a motorbike-horn
in the other. The hom,
tooted through the keyhole,
never failed to bring some-
one to the door promptly.
I asked the reason for the
unorthodox means of sum-
moning a customer. “This
way—know it’s me,” came
the laconic answer. “Bang
knocker —might be anyone.
Time-payment man even.
No-one answer.”
“Aestur”: Don’t know whether
London was the only city where cats’
meat was delivered daily (B. 13/2/’52),
but do know that in many establishments
the cat was listed as a member of the staff,
and an allowance paid for his upkeep.
Not only in London, of course: a bloke
at Mt. Lyell coppermine on the Speck’s
west coast told me of a debit for tucker
charge on account of “Mr. Change-house
Cat.”
* * * •
“Pitt St.”: Sydney seems to hide a per-
sonality who is apparently as eagerly
sought as was the fictional Pimpernel by
the Frenchies, and is even more elusive.
I don’t attend many public entertain-
ments, but when I do I am always im-
pressed by the presence of sundry young
men who take the opportunity of every
interval in whatever performance is going
on to circulate rapidly among the
audience crying, with the typical whine
of anybody wearily calling for someone
they can’t find, “Peter Syce! Peter Syce! ”
I wish I knew where the so-and-so is and
why they want him.
* * * •
“Hamer”: A U.S. method of draw-
ing attention to grievances has made its
way to our suburb, where every morning
a sign blossoms on a fence at my street-
corner, near the tram-stop, which pro-
claims “Edna Unfair to Yank.” When
I have been slightly late I have seen a
dressing-gowned young woman, evidently
Edna, slipping along the street and tear-
ing down the sign. But Yank apparently
has an unlimited number of ready-to-use
signs and a pocketful of drawing-pins to
fasten them, for the sign is back again,
usually, at night and is invariably there
in the morning. The other evening as I
alighted from the tram I heard a man
talking earnestly in the American
language to tjiree others ; this was evi-
dently Yank telling all about the unfair-
ness of Edna. That, of course, is the
purpose of the advertisement of griev-
ance ; it invites public inquiries and the
unfair one is expected to give in rather
than let the matter go further. I am
waiting with interest to see whether Edna
gives way; she has stood the siege for
quite a long time now,
« * * *
“Pawang”: In one of its reports the
National Foundation for Educational Re-
search in Britain has found that the
ordinary Government-issue heavy cane,
36in. long and 7-16 in. thick, was more
likely to cause bruises than pain and
recommended a longer and thinner issue.
This discovery was made 50 years ago
by the boys at a school I attended in
Adelaide. One of the junior teachers
always used two canes tied together and
was therefore named “Two-canes Willie.”
He apparently imagined that the two
canes hurt more than one, but all we felt
from the double issue was a dull thud
that scarcely hurt at all. If he had used
one it would have hissed and wrapped
itself round our fingers—and stung
us. We were so anxious for him
to stick to his invention that we always
howled and writhed in simulated agony
when he hit us.
* * * *
“Woody”: There are some books not
to be read in trams by the inhibited.
I sat opposite a chap whose grin grew
as he sampled Stephen Leacock’s
Literary Lapses. A few stops on
he gave a short, strangled gasp,
coughed deprecatingly, and made a
ludicrous attempt to camouflage his
mirth by staring with feigned interest
at the passing parade of vehicles.
Cautiously he returned to Leacock, and
read the humorless acknowledgments at
the end until composed, then recklessly
turned back to the “Lapses.” But the
cumulative effect of suppressed laughter
had unsteadied him. His shoulders shud-
dered for a while, he spluttered loudly
and damply, and with an intake of breath
emitted a thin, piercing wail. By now a
spectacle for the whole compartment, he
thrust the book into a briefcase and sat
with an expression of glazed happiness
for the rest of the journey. I’ve seen him
since, a sadder, wiser-looking man, poring
over an accountancy textbook. There’s
nothing funny in that.
* * * •
“L.A.P.”: Police had received a tip
that beer was being sold at night in a
certain lane, though the informant did not
name the actual house. A plainclothes-
man went round after dark, but appar-
ently business was dull that night, and
by 10 o’clock nothing had happened.
Thinking he had been misinformed, the
cop decided to have a smoke. Scarcely
had he struck his match than a panel in
the fence slid back almost in his face
and a hand appeared holding two
bottles; he had stumbled on the signal.
The night’s drama was, however, not
over. Collecting some colleagues he
searched the house, without success, until
in a room where Granny was said to be
very sick they were struck by the thick-
ness of the old lady’s inner-spring
mattress. It was sprung all right—with
12 dozen of the best.
“Swaddy”: The platoon of National
Service trainees was on its first route-
march, and the platoon sergeant noticed
one of his embryo Diggers limping badly.
On investigating he found that the boots
were the trouble, not the distance
covered. Sarge sent the rookie back to
explain to the quartermaster that two
right boots are not conducive to good
marching.
* * * *
“Tanglefoot”: After careful research
a friend produced a series of historical
strips and entitled them “Educational
Stories for Children.” They were well
printed, and had attractive covers—and
he sold a dozen copies in six months. An
advertising acquaintance provided the
clue—the magic word “comic” had been
omitted. Reissued as “Educational
Comics” the strips sold out in a few
weeks. Whether it’s a history of hoop-la
or an essay on onions, just tell the young
it’s a comic and they’ll read it.
• * * ♦
“Pip Tok”; Now that electronic
instruments figure in treasure-hunting no
doubt this modern device will be co-
opted to locate the gold reserve of the old
Transvaal Republic, supposedly secreted
somewhere on the veld, between Pre-
toria and the border of Portuguese East
Africa, in 1900. It was one of the last
official acts of Jan Smuts, as Attorney-
General of the Transvaal, to see the gold
reserve aboard the train which carried
President Kruger to safety, before the
British entered Pretoria. Kruger ulti-
mately reached Holland via Delagoa Bay,
but what became of i'..e £2 million gold
reserve no one knows. Michael Davitt,
the Irish revolutionary, who was in Pre-
toria until almost the last minute before
the British entered, defends Kruger from
the charge of taking the gold to support
him in exile. According to him, there
was more bullion than coin in the gold
reserve. British authorities also agree
that the intention was to place the gold
in security, and there is no record of
any of it having reached Europe. Several
attempts have been made to find it, but
the presumption is that the few who were
in the secret of its disposal were either
killed in action or died without divulging
the secret.
ETERNITY,
Turning a corner, round which might have
beckoned
old illusions in the guise of some fresh venture,
flaunting opportunity; around the corner which
we’d reckoned
led towards the train, and home, where we’d
be sure
of warmth and welcome, we found chalked
upon the pavement in a neat round hand:
Eternity.
So easy, now, to joke about the loose nut tucked
away beneath his bonnet; on the sand,
to think of him in shabby clothes, chalking the
sea-wall
where sun-drowsy girls lie through the idle day.
Yet one can imagine stumbling through the
smoke-pall,
through the shattered streets, and finding
chalked . . . Eternity.
N.S.W.
ROGER CHALLIS BROWN.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Territorian”: Bismark, a police-tracker
at Darwin, was happy enough with his
salary of 30s. a week. But Authority
decided that Bismark was underpaid, so
they doubled his wages, and also gave
him extra allowances of blankets, cloth-
ing, etc. That gave Bismark ideas, so
he decided that anyone receiving such
munificence was entitled to holidays. He
therefore called on his younger brother
July to do his job, paying him 30s. per
week, leaving Bismark free to sit down
in comfort at the Bagot Compound and
still enjoy his original “cash-monsy longa
pocket.” July, who had been paid some-
thing like £2 a week in his former job,
relinquished it without a murmur, and
became Bismark’s offsider. After all,
Bismark was his elder brother, and so
entitled to command his services. Then
Authority woke up, and with it went
Bismark’s dream of living comfortably
without working. “That one Gubmint
too much myall,” moaned the tracker as
he got back on the job. “Him no more
savvy nussing. July bin work all right,
what for Gubmint growl?”
* * * ♦
“Blime”: The bushfires that proved so
disastrous for n.-e. Victoria arrived so
suddenly that many people got away with
nothing but the clothes they were wear-
ing. No sooner had the fire passed and
the area been declared safe than the
sightseers ln fleets of cars
they came, staring pop-eyed at the
devastation, swarming over the burnt-
out homesteads and rummaging among
the ruins. So many odds and ends they
found that would still see useful service.
Pots and dishes that had escaped the
worst of the heat, kitchen articles and
various household effects that were still
valuable went joyfully into their cars.
Gardens that had been by-passed by the
flames were stripped of fruit and vege-
tables, With nightfall the laden cars
turned homeward, the tired occupants
sorry for the farmers who had lost every-
"I TOLD you it wouldn’t fit.”
thing in the disastrous fires, but well
pleased with all the useful souvenirs they
had collected.
♦ * * ♦
“Dune”: Going for an early-morning
dip on an island a little north of Mackay
(Q.), I was surprised to see a koala swim-
ming strongly towards the beach. After
making landfall he ambled off to a suit-
able tree. Several days later he was miss-
ing, but his tracks were clearly visible
where he had gone down to the beach
again, presumably with the intention of
going back home to the neighboring
island, about a quarter of a mile off.
Hadn’t thought of the little bear as a
master of the natatory art before —the
general impression seems to be that he is
scared of water.
* * ♦ ♦
“J.G.S.”: There is an explanation why
the abo. won’t let his baby cry (B.
(13/2/’52). The native associates crying
with the lamentation at a burial, a wel-
come for the deceased into the spirit
world. The great moment in the life of
the abo. is when his child first sings.
* * * »
“H.C.8.”: I agree with “Old-timer” on
the futility of trying to trace the
etymology of placenames (B. 6/2/’52).
The town of Illabo (three stations south
of Cootamundra, N.S.W.) sounds black-
fellowish enough for anybody, and I
suppose it was an underhand trick to
ask a philogistic cobber what the word
meant. After careful consideration he
gave a verdict: “ Tlla’ means ‘top’ as in
Illawarra —top of hill —the ‘bo’ is prob-
ably a corruption from ‘moe,’ ‘moia’ or
‘moi’ which mean ‘swamp.’ I’d say it
means ‘top of swamp.’ ” At that, he
nearly fluked it —the village was originally
called Billabong, but it being discovered
that another town in N.S.W. bore the
same name, some ingenious parochial
patriot conceived the idea of lopping it
fore and aft. Then there is the Sydney
suburb of Lidcombe. When I was still
wrestling with slates and pothooks the
town and adjacent cemetery were both
“Rookwood.” The advent of civic pride
in the district, however, stirred up loud
howls about this association of the quick
with the dead. Finally a distinction was
made by giving the town a name derived
by taking the first syllable from the name
of a former mayor, and adding it to the
last ditto of another civic father. But
don’t ask a local how the name was
born; he’ll tell you the legend that, long
ago, a mayor was to be interred, the
hearse was horse-drawn. Something
frightened the prads, they bolted; the
hearse overturned, the coffin fell out —
and the Lidcombe off.
* » * *
“Formic”: One of the most costly
termite mounds in Australia encroached
on the road between Government House
and the Administrator’s offices in Darwin.
Orders were given for the encroachment
to be cleared. The ants rebuilt during
the night. The fight went on; men
shovelled by day and the termites
replenished by night. On wet nights—
and there were plenty—the insects
worked double shifts. That mound was
estimated to have cost the Administra-
tion £4OO. When I left the ants were
still holding their own.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Before he got married
Needle Jones was the sort of bloke who
knocked about in pretty well all weathers
in vest, pants and shirt, the vest always
open and worn not so much for protec-
tion as a handy carry-all. After about
a year of wedlock, however, it became
noticeable that Jonesy was going to the
other extreme. From the feet up he wore
boots, socks, long underwear, shirt, pants,
vest and coat, the whole usually under an
overcoat. He was never without the over-
coat, carrying it over an arm in the hot
weather and wearing it in anything under
80 degrees. The mob chiacked him and
sought for reasons for many days, but
Jonesy just gave an embarrassed grin.
Then a truck knocked him off his bike
and they took him to the district hospital,
where he was repaired and let go. “It
just shows y\ though,” he said, retailing
“Let him go in naturally!”
the events with the natural pride of a
man who’s been through it, “the missus
was right. She never let me go out unless
I was properly dressed. She always said
it’d be horrible if I met with a naccident
an’ only half-dressed. ‘Why, Bert,’ she
says, ‘y’ could get killed an’ what would
they think of me as a wife if all y’ had
on was an old shirt an’ a pair o’ pants! ”
* * * *
“E.”: It was about 104 deg. in the
waterbag. I mopped off the trickles,
flicked at the cloud of flies and kicked
wearily at my sluggish hack. Nearing
old Ted Brady’s I saw Ted close his yard-
gate on a mob of jumbucks, deliver some
instructions to his missus, and walk for-
ward to the end of the drafting-race.
Mrs. Ted began pushing the sheep up.
Backward and forward across the yard
sh e trotted,
clapping her
hands, flapping
and barking
till she got the
mob started
through the
race. Then, as
a couple jam-
med she ran forward, dragged and
pushed, then dashed back once more to
keep the tail coming. Presently there was
a break in the run. “Keep ’em up,
missus,” bawled old Ted testily. “Keep
’em running even, can’t y’.” Mrs. Ted
wiped the sweat from her eyes, peered
through the dust, and again dived for-
ward at a bunch of baulkers in the race-
head. “Hot day, Ted,” I remarked, pull-
ing up alongside. “Where’s your dog?
Couldn’t you get Nigger to keep that mob
up for you, while you work the gate?”
“Nigger?” Ted paused a minute to glance
towards the dog lying in the shade of the
shed. “Aw, cut it out,” he protested.
“Bloke couldn’t ask a dog t’ work a day
like this!”
* * * ♦
“Clem Lack”: The aborigine had a
primitive logic and a highly-developed
sense of humor, which was one of the
reasons why earnest and well-meant
efforts to Christianise him often im-
pressed him as ludicrous. Their art of
mimicry, as proved by their corroborees,
was highly developed, and early mission-
aries, the Moravians among others, were
often incensed by what appeared to be
a mocking travesty of their prayer meet-
ings. Pastor Haussman, of the Nundah
Moravian mission, was one day walking
through the bush near the blacks’ camp
when he came upon an impromptu per-
formance. A portly old abo. was imper-
sonating him, with his eyes raised to the
sky and making motions with his hands,
while his followers chimed in with droned
responses. The audience was rocking to
and fro with amusement at the spectacle.
When the old pastor, picking up a stick,
charged his impersonator and belabored
him vigorously, the hilarity of the abos
was redoubled. All they could see was
the humor of the situation ; there was no
intentional irreverence or lack of respect
for the missioner.
* * * *
“Edx”: “Mud-daubed, with clays from this
earth,” says W. E. Harney (B. 9/1 /’52), and I
wondered where his abos got their ochre from.
A possible source would be the Weld Ranges
in the iron-rich Murchison (W.A.), where there
is a cave known to the natives as Wilgie Mia,
once a sacred place, and held by them in super-
stitious dread. The Weld Range Is particularly
rich in pure hematite, and it is in a deposit
of this ore, varying from soft red and yellow
ochres to solid hematite, that the cave has been
hollowed out. Forty feet below a mighty iron-
stone parapet near the top of the ridge the
entrance to the cave lies at the bottom of a
short slope, making it visible through a
restricted arc from one direction only, and so
giving it natural protection from intrusion by
unauthorised persons, which was used to advan-
tage by the natives who worked the ochre.
According to H. P. Woodward, who visited it
first in 1892, only three elders of the small
owning tribe were permitted to enter the
mystery-shrouded mia; it was doubtful whether
even other members of the same tribe knew
its exact location. By the time he visited the
place again in 1912 as Assistant Government
Geologist, contact with the whites had worn
thin the veil of mystery, and men, women and
children worked unconcerned in the cave
during daylight, but still kept clear of it after
sunset. The legend associated with the ochre
is that at this place, the Mondong, the evil
spirit, killed a giant kangaroo, whose blood
soaked the ground and made the wilgie. The
evil spirit still lived in the dark recesses, but,
hating the light, emerged only in darkness, when
his cries could be heard by the awed tribe
assembled about a mile away to receive the
prized red clay. The membership of the select
was always kept at three; when one died
another was initiated. The cave is 30ft. from
floor to roof, roughly 50yds. in length and
width. The ashes of age-old fires litter the
floor, and a vast heap of discarded worthless
brown and purple ochre at the cave-mouth
testifies that the illumination was useless for
distinguishing the good from the bad. Every
bit had to be brought to the cave-mouth for
examination and separation in daylight. That
this mine has been in existence many centuries
may be gauged by the estimated 15,000 cub. yds.
excavated from the cave —all by never more
than three workmen at one time, using pointed
wooden sticks as tools. That, and the waterless,
desolate nature of the surrounding country,
making visits to the cave dependent on the
season, makes it probable that an average rate
of removal of 1 cub. yd. per year would be
the limit of production.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”: Although I’ve seen her
occasionally in the distance, I’ve never
met the lady, but I certainly hope to
make her acquaintance. It’s only recently
that she has moved into her new home
near by. She has been doing herself
proud, too. Where the White Leghorns
she obtained came from I don’t know,
but the Australorps came from Burns’s
place across the road. The Rhode Island
Reds undoubtedly were contributed by
Taylor up on the hill, whilst the Mus-
covies originally belonged to Mother
McGee down by the racecourse. The
fur at her front door no doubt helped
to adorn the original tenants, but the
hare’s hind legs and the wings of a
black duck told of careful stalking. Tne
wing and half-eaten body of a whistling
eagle must have been a corned-beef-and-
carrot day for her after the game, though
probably more easily obtained than one
would think, seeing the difficulty some
of the big birds have in taking off.
Biggest mystery, though, was the large
number of magpie spares lying around.
How she got so many of these black-and-
white jets was puzzling till I saw how
intent they were on bloating themselves
in attempting to rid the long grass or
’hoppers —no trouble to a vixen. 1
could almost catch ’em myself.
♦ * * *
The black shag was working
down with the tide. He made dive after
dive —smooth and noiseless —reappearing
after most sorties with a small fish. At
his last dive the minutes went by, but
he didn’t reappear —I had a clear view
of the water for at least 100 yards each
way. After a while I noticed a disturbance
near the rocks close by, and in the swirl-
ing water I caught a glimpse of the Hap-
ping wing of the shag, and at the same
time the long, sinuous tentacles of a big
octopus writhed in the air and were gone.
Then the muddy water, carrying a tew
bubbles, resumed its smooth-flowing sur-
face.
TRACTOR SONG.
The tractor lumbers up the headland home,
Mumbling to itself in good content.
The red dust falls from the plough,
Whose shining disks have turned all day in battle
Like shields of armored brightness in the sun.
Behind lie the sprawling clods
And upturned tussocks, hairy, like giant spiders
Asleep in the soft, warm dusk.
All day the song of promise rang in the land,
The kerosene fumes arose
As an offering, hot and acrid, to summer harvest.
The shadowed shed swallows the tractor up,
One last exultant note
Rattling and echoing from the iron walls.
And then the silence. The paddock in fold and
furrow
Hides in the arms of night; and over the shed
Where the tractor sleeps and over the whole
wide land
The harvest moon keeps vigil for tomorrow.
QUEENSLAND.
T. CONNOR.


“Laetitia”: Cookies’ wives may be
proud of their latest-model cars, but the
absence of a running-board is a sore
grievance with the agriculturists them-
selves. Half the pleasure of owning a
car used to lie in being able to squat on
the running-board and argue in comfort
before the stock sales started. The
absence of the running-board in the new
cars has also been regarded bleakly by
the dogs. They miss that joyous form
of hitch-hiking.
* * * ♦
It has now been established
by contact with the Falkland Islands
Dependencies Scientific Bureau that a
petrel found dead on the beach at Chase’s
Gorge, Dargairlle (N.Z.) by Percy Wright,
of Whangerei, had been ringed in the
South Orkneys while still a fledgling in
the downy stage seven months before.
The bird, it is estimated, had flown 6500
miles in four months.
* * * ♦
“Pip Tok”: Caught at Dunsborough,
near Busselton (W.A.), a fish rarely seen
in these waters, or near the surface any-
where, has found its last resting-place in
the Perth Museum. A bulging head
and a tapering body 15 inches long give
it the appearance of an Indian club.
Other peculiarities are eyes at the top of
the head, a curved mouth at right-angles
to the body —suggesting the features of
a bewildered old man —and powerful fins
on each side below the head. From the
position of the eyes, the fish is sometimes
called a “stargazer,” but because thestrong
fins help it to dig-in at the bottom of the
sea, even moving stones in the process,
it has been given the alternative name of
“stonelifter,” It lurks there under sand
or mud, with only eyes and mouth show-
ing, and snaps smaller fish as they swim
within gobbling distance. It is the second
of the species to reach the Perth Museum
—its predecessor was a much smaller
specimen.
* * * ♦
“8.A.K.”: I’ve managed reasonably
well to adapt myself to the crazy “values”
of most things in these modern days, but
I’m hanged if I can learn to regard an
ordinary wheat- or com-bag as an article
of real value. When I was a boy nobody
in our rural district bought bags —you
just sort of acquired ’em. The cost of the
container didn’t enter into the bargaining
when Dad bought a bag of bran, and
the storekeeper, delivering a quarter of
wheat for our backyard poultry-farm,
generally left bag and all rather than
bother to empty the contents into the bin.
We were never short of a bag to serve
as a saddle, our cubbies were always
lined with ’em, and Mum used them
extensively as mats on wet days. A bag
with the comer tucked in pixie-fashion
was the universal rain-cape. And
if you wanted to deliver a Christmas
chook to a distant relative you didn’t think
twice about cutting a hole for its head
to poke through. But fancy doing that
these days, with secondhand bags bring-
ing up to a dollar and new ’uns seven-
bob-odd each! The Wagga-rug is no
longer the poor-man’s blanket. Gripes,
it’d be cheaper to buy an eiderdown!
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The Westralian
white flowering-gums are blossoming pro-
fusely this year, and there’s the usual
crop of forecasts of a wet winter. Science
pooh-poohs suggestions that the pro-
fuseness of the blossoms is a weather-
indicator, but scientifically - minded
observers among forestry men say that
wet winters follow heavy bloomings too
often to be merely coincidental. The
natives who lived around the Swan dis-
tricts 40 years ago took their cue from ,
the blossoms, and after years of observa-
tion I’ll take a chance on them myself.
Now I’ve another point to bring forward.
The blue cranes which usually visit my
swamp in pairs are this year appearing in
dozens, and they seem to be family groups.
At least, there’s very little rivalry between
the members of each group. They’re
cheekier than I’ve ever known them to
be, and walking through my own pad-
docks now I get the impression that I’m
the intruder. I’m wondering if some in-
stinct is telling them that in a few months
they’ll have the wading rights over most
of my property.
♦ * * •
“V.”: Have struck wombats that
never used the hole they made under a
fence more than once; now East Gipps-
landers (Vic.) are up against a dingo
that has learned the same trick. The
killer’s tally must nearly reach the big
records, and for months graziers have
been flat-out to catch him. The price on
his scalp, too, has attracted more than
one skilled dogman into the district, but
still the killing goes on. To enter the
cleared country from the bush the dingo
must come through a dog-fence of great
extent, and he does so by making a fresh
hole for himself with each entry. The
fence has been there for many years,
and at ground-level the netting is weaken-
ing. The dingo grabs it with his teeth
and pulls. Where it won’t give he leaves
it, going on until he finds a place where
it can be tom from the ground to let him
under. A hole once made is soon lined
with camouflaged traps, but this warrigal
knows better, and trots off to get through
in another spot for his wholesale
slaughtering.
♦ * * *
“Bunyip”: Once I crowned a queen.
The local shanty ran the competition,
which was to pay for the new “hall.”
All drovers, trappers, fossickers and
stray stragglers calling at the shanty were
snared into aiding the candidature of Mrs.
B.’s small daughter, so that when the
fund mercifully closed she had more
votes than all other claimants to the
throne combined. The local member
had been asked
to crown her, but
he had plenty of
sound excuses;
the shire president
was away, the
nearest councillor
was a wowser
and therefore in-
eligible, the
station - master
was a good
citizen, but we
were 30 miles
from the rail, the
sergeant preferred
to restrict his
connections with the shanty to official
ones, and Mr. Woolbales was on a bender.
So when the ceremony had been delayed
an hour in the hope that somebody else
would turn up and I was no longer in
doubt as to my social status —and
possibly because my hands were still
steady—l was asked to plant the spiky
arrangement of cardboard and chocolate-
wrappers on the successful juvenile scone.
It turned out a happy little affair; sets
were danced with a precision that
would shame what I’ve seen of the so-
called square-dances of today, and you
never waited long before some kindly
soul would sidle up and whisper which
was the foundation-post outside behind
which you could find the bottle.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: On a highway favored by
hurtling sports-cars, by sedans claiming
to cruise at a comfortable 70 m.p.h., by
“Someone just Won the jackpot !”
trucks that are supposed to stick to a
steady 25 and the nearest they get to it
is 40, on a smooth undulating surface
lined by phantom crosses that record the
highest fatality-rate in the State, I have
just had one hour’s delightful driving.
Despite the fact that it was Sunday morn-
ing and a fine day for the city folk to get
out for a spin, I drove in complete
relaxation, safety and comfort, having
shoved the truck into low, eased in the
clutch, set the throttle at the idling posi-
tion. With my off-wheels just off the
bitumen and the near ones just on the
grass, 1 could gaze about as much
as I liked and yarn to the pup
on the other end of the seat,
“Did you order any snuff with the groceries , Hilda?"
admire the gardens, criticise the crops,
hail neighbors, swat flies, look behind,
stretch out, scratch my scone—all the
pleasant things you can’t do when you’re
part of the scurrying stream which was
still pouring past. No changing down at
corners, no squealing brakes as the dame
in front used her foot before her hand,
none of the anxiety about overtaking and
at the same time remaining in this world ;
just a pleasant Sunday-nnommg ou ing,
going where I w ant^’ h °w t ! v Tt"om e ’
when I wanted. You ought to try it some
time, though you mightn t to M
the particular governor that my
even low speed. I was tow g y •
»*. . * .
“Mat’s Mate”: A Socialist inserted him-
self into our Gippsland road-gang and
seemed to think Mat was material for
conversion. Mat, however, received the
gospel coldly. “Look here,” th e
enthusiast argued, “more’n once 1
hear you say y’ got no time for bosses,
More’n once I hear y’ callin’ the em-
ployers for everythin’. You hate em,
that’s what y’ do.” “What about it!’
Mat demanded. “That’s just it,” cried the
reformer triumphantly. “In the Socialist
State they won’t be no bosses. We’ll
wipe ’em.” Mat picked up his pick,
“Well, that ruddy well settles it,” he
snorted. “Give blokes like you your head
an’ a man’d have nobody left t’ go crook
at. What’s the flamin’ good o’ that!’’
After which most of the talk centred
round racehorses.
* • w •
“M.”: For real mud I’ll plump for the
Wimmera wheat-belt in a wet season. Not
small patches like a Dungaree cowyard,
nor the kind of stuff they fling in
Canberra, but thousands of square miles of
deep, rich, affectionate black-and-red-soil
mud ; so flat that you could see a mouse
a mile away. In my first year in those
parts the deluge began in early May, and
continued, with barely a break, for three
months, converting the d - P
and the deep dust of the r From
consistency of a pot of porndg .
Minyip to Rupanyup was
miles across country, but road transport
was off, so I started on the slow round-
about, three-tram journey. At ’
however, I struck a chap who was g
to tackle the road and save me a d y.
He produced a long-shafted brake, with a
half-draught in the shafts and another on
an outrigger, and at funeral pace, to the
accompaniment of the smack the
paddlewheel action and the “sloosh,
sloosh” as each foot was dragged from
the mudj we lurched through and berthed
at R U p a nyup, Next stage was by rail to
jy[ arnoo) where two draught-horses pull-
. td e baker’s cart, axle-deep, in the
main str£etj lus the sight 0 f various
trucks bogged down until the dry-out,
confirmed the choice of the iron track
for remainder of the Wimmera tour,
Horsham l could cross the main street
Qn foot yia a narrow causeway of loose
meta j which each year was placed at
an intersection and which as regularly
went down through the winter mud until
t here must have been a column of stone
2 0ft. or so in depth. I left the Wimmera
by night-train in August, and along the
track the machines were in the paddocks
with lights, getting in the crops; and
those August-sown crops proved real
winners. Mud is money in the
Wimmera.
*** * .
“Mac Fergus : Worked for an ancient
German cocky outside Clifton, on the
Darling Downs (Q’land). Ignorant that
old Johann was the district’s chief wine-
maker in earlier days, I was thrilled
when, in the kitchen the first night, old
Heinie produced a bottle. I obliged him,
but thereafter refused. “You my vine
don ’t like yet, no?” I shook my head,
“By gollies,” he exclaimed. “You the
first vorking-man for me won’t trinken.”
I had discovered my bunk was built over
a trap-door that led to the cellar. I
wonder if he ever found the empties at
the bottom of the well?
“Vet.”: Ever try to capture a wild
duckling off a decent-sized dam? It’s not
so easy. The brood of eight were sailing
well in the centre, and knew better than
to leave the water, despite the many
sticks I threw at them. Then I sent the
dog in. He swam to within a foot or
two of the brood before they suddenly
disappeared and left him staring
bewilderedly. Looking round then for
instructions, he found the ducklings
behind him, and again gave chase. Pop,
pop, pop went the birds under the water,
as he stretched his neck for them, and
madder grew the mong with every effort.
When finally he knocked up I retired to
the cover of a fern patch to wait for the
brood to leave the water. After a long
time they did, and, giving them a good
lead, I started in pursuit. The ducklings
immediately split up, each going in a
different direction. The one I selected made
straight uphill, and soon was knocking
badly. So was I. I watched it stop beside
a few scattered bracken fronds, and,
reaching the spot, I searched diligently.
On hands and knees I picked up every
chip, stick, fern-root and piece of bark
within yards, then savagely sat down on
the spot to wait. Maybe I would finally
have found that duckling, but, hang it, a
bloke must go home to eat some time.
WIND CHANT.
Wind, wind, blow your hate,
blow it out to sea,
and if you think of going now
it’s much too late for me;
you’ve spoiled the crop
and fouled the house
and broken down the tree.
Once, once, long ago
when I was a child,
I saw a witch on her broomstick,
while you chased and reviled,
fly high across
to snatch night’s purse
And make you yet more wild.
“Witch, witch, drop that purse,
drop it now,” you cried,
“it is no possible use to you,
you don’t know what’s inside”;
and then you tore it from her grasp,
the moon slipped out and all the stars
went scattering far and wide.
Moon, moon, sail the wind,
sail it out to sea,
and if you think of starting now
it’s not too soon for me;
it’s flayed the dog
and crazed the cat
and sent a plague on me.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


FLY DIRECT BY QANTAS TO
Hong
Kon
IN LESS THAN 48 HOURS
“ Saves my valuable time flying by Qantas —and, of
course, time means money. I like the way Qantas
do things on the Hong Kong Service —fine food,
excellent service and personal attention.
Nothing’s a trouble. And if you’re a tourist
the days you’ll save will give you more
leisure for pleasure in this fascinating
Oriental City.”
Regular weekly services from Sydney by modern Qantas
Skymaster. Consult your travel agent.
ẁ
ẃ
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD.
(inc. in Queensland) c
Divorce Notices.
TO MAY HUNT formerly of Sydney
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
your husband HARRY WILLIAM HTJhT
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for divorce on the ground of deser-
tion If you desire to defend such pro-
ceedings you must file your defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court Perth
within thirty clear days from the date of
this publication In default of y°Mt so
doing the case may proceed and the Court
may pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. Dated this
19th day of February, 1952. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY JOHN GUMBLETON for-
merly of Adelaide South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that HAZEL ALMA
GUMBLETON has filed a Petition No-
-3898 of 1951 for Divorce on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the sth May 1952
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from F. W. REILLY, Solicitor,
of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH WALLACE BASIL McGRATH
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
LESLEY DOROTHY McGRATH has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4172 of 1951
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 29th day of April 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. W. MILNE & BERRY,
Solicitors, 350 George Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Probate Notice.
VILL anyone knowing the whereabouts
,f DANIEL SHEFFIELD BENNETT, a
hips' steward, residing in 1936 at John
Street, Granville, and last heard of m
>erth and who is an Executor nominated
n the Will of MAUD TAYLOR. late of
Jranville, please communicate with the
indersigned.—J. L. THOMSON, Solicitor,
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
THE VOICE OF RED FLAT
by DON EDWARDS
HE was known throughout
the district as “Wonky”
Baxter because of a lame
leg that made him lean
over towards his left side and
shuffle along awkwardly like the
butcher’s blue cattle-dog that
had been run over by old
Cleland’s truck.
He lived in Coolara and only
came to Red Flat every few
weeks; but, when he did come,
news soon went round the
village, and there was a stir in
the air, a gossiping over fences, a
peeping from window-corners, a
general air of excitement.
He hadn’t shown up for over
a month. Then, one hot
Saturday, the people started
looking towards the Royal
Hotel and grinning, and saying
“Wonky’s in town.” “Wonk’s
here again.” It was the usual
form of greeting all day. “Guess
who’s here?” “I say, Wonky has
arrived.” “I see Wonky’s old
car parked near the pub.”
There was always a hint of
fun to come in the remarks, an
anticipatory pleasure in the
reception of them. “Is that so?”
with a rising inflection. “Time
the old heathen showed up
again.” “I was beginning to
think someone in Coolara had
murdered him.”
The hot day dragged on
slowly. People went in and out
of the bar to verify the news,
children wrote Wonky in the dust
on his old car parked beneath
the pepper-tree beside Mandel’s
store, and everyone was deter-
mined to be somewhere near the
hotel at closing-time,
DEOPLE like old Annie
* Smith, the malicious old
washerwoman with the nut-
cracker face and the sharp,
vindictive eyes, and Tom Jowett,
the ganger, bawdy-minded and
good-humored, were quite open
i in their resolve to be outside the
| Royal at six o’clock, but the
more respectable townspeople,
ashamed of their interest in
Wonky, indulged in a good deal
of self-deception and subterfuge.
Hooke, the schoolteacher,
found he had business with Ben-
nington, whose shop was
opposite the hotel. Moon, the
retired grazier, just happened to
be working in his front garden,
which was next to Bennington’s
shop, and Mrs. Matthews and
Mrs. Stephenson stopped for a
yarn in the road before the
hotel and glanced frequently at
the open door of the bar. Each
was constantly on the point of
going her way, but both stayed
on and drew closer to the hotel
veranda as time moved towards
six o’clock.
“I wonder what the time is?”
Dolly Stephenson asked the
question as if it were a matter
of no importance at all. Ada
Matthews muttered something
about forgetting to bring her
watch because she only expected
to be away a few minutes.
Then the appearance of Terry
Keating, who came from the
railway station, told them that
it was about ten minutes to six,
for Terry had been making his
slow way towards the hotel at
this time every day except Sun-
day for the last fifteen years.
On Sundays he was later and he
went in the back door. Terry
always had two drinks, alone.
He had a perpetual grouch that
was reflected in a sour sort of
grin and a direct, aggressive
manner of speech.
THE two women looked away
to the far ranges that were
turning purple and mauve in the
late afternoon sunshine, but
Terry’s voice struck them back
into attention again.
“Waiting to hear Wonky
Baxter, eh!” It was a derisive
statement of fact rather than a
question, and it received no
answer. This apparently pleased
him, for he chuckled insinuat-
ingly and his grin widened.
“Does Wonky know you’re
waiting, or would you like me
to tell him?”
He slouched up the slope to
the hotel veranda while the two
women drew closer together and
talked quickly in a way that
didn’t deceive Terry, for he no
sooner disappeared through the
door of the bar than his head
popped out again like the head
of a tortoise, and he shouted,
“Yes, Wonk is in here right
enough, ladies. Why don’t you
come in and talk to him?”
Mrs. Matthews snorted with
disgust. “A terrible man. I
wish they’d send someone else
to the railway station. Other
stationmasters get moved on,
but he seems to be a permanent
fixture.”
Mrs. Stephenson nodded in
full agreement. “I believe
Ransome from Coolara is in
town today, too. My husband
saw him this morning. They say
he was terribly wild over all
those things that were said about
him.” She looked up and down
the long red road eagerly. “I
wonder if he has gone back to
Coolara yet?”
“Wouldn’t you be annoyed,
too?” Mrs. Matthews asked,
“if someone said those things
about you?”
“I’ll say I would; but I
believe they were all true. Every-
one say’s he’s as mean as an
old dingo, and yet he gave that
woman who was staying with
them for a holiday”
Here Dolly Stephenson inter-
rupted. “Holiday! A pretty long
holiday if you ask me. Six
months if it was a day. I always
thought it was a funny business.
I wondered why his wife put up
with it.”
Mrs. Matthews nodded her
head as if to shake off the inter-
ruption and went on. “Gave her
a car; a car mind you.” Her
voice rose at the emphatic
repetition and her jerking head
punctuated the remarks. “A
new car; and when they were
collecting for the school picnic
in Coolara he said he didn’t like
children or schools and refused
to give a penny. Beats me why
his wife didn’t raise a fuss and
kick the woman out long before
she did.”
“He often does his shopping
here now.” Dolly Stephenson
looked up and down the long
red road that ran down the slope
to the white bridge over the
creek and then curved up the hill
towards Coolara on the other
side. “I wonder if he has gone
home yet.”
“I wonder,” echoed her com-
panion. “Here come Mrs. Riley
and her sister, and Daniels from
the post-office, and Jim Carroll,
and look at the children coming,
too. Wouldn’t you think their
parents would keep them at
home? Some parents just don’t
care what their children are
doing.” She jerked her head up
and down in disgust.
BY this time there was a
crowd of fifty or sixty
adults and numerous children
scattered about in the yards of
the houses and in the roadway
before the hotel.
Dolly Stephenson and Mrs.
Matthews moved slightly closer
to the hotel veranda, out of the
sun that was shining down the
long road and striking into their
eyes. Two men came out of the
bar grinning. One of them
gestured back towards the door-
way, while the other shouted,
“He’s in there, and properly
sozzled.”
A movement rippled amongst
the people and a sound of con-
versation swelled and then broke
into silence as another figure
stumbled from the bar.
“It’s only old Cleary,” some-
one said in a loud voice, and
there was a gust of quick
laughter that caught the man
and held him for a moment and
then sent him staggering off with
an embarrassed and apologetic
smile on his face.
The people settled down again
to wait. Two or three cars drove
up and stopped on the far side
of the road opposite the hotel.
“Six o’clock,” someone called,
and the murmur of excitement
swelled up again.
Everyone turned towards the
dark opening of the doorway.
Several men came out, each one
grinning at the waiting people
and glancing back at the bar
before stepping down off the
veranda to join the crowd.
“Here he comes.” “Here’s
Wonky.”
The murmur of voices broke
and diminished into an expect-
ant silence that was interrupted
only by distant noises such as the
chopping of wood from behind
the hotel and the rattle of a car
over the loose planks on the
white bridge.
“There he is,” someone called
sharply, and “Hi there. Wonky! ”
someone else said with a laugh.
A TALL, angular, round-
shouldered man with a
leathery - looking complexion
shuffled through the doorway
and stood blinking down at the
people in mock surprise.
“Well, well,” he shouted in
a voice that screeched like the
brakes on Devlin’s old truck.
“What you all waitin’ for?”
A snigger went through the
crowd.
He took a couple of unsteady,
drunken steps across the veranda
and thrust out a long, skinny
arm towards a post. His jaw
hung loosely, his big ears stuck
out as prominently as the awn-
ings on Moon’s cottage, and his
sharp, peering eyes took in the
people waiting in the road.
“What you folks waitin’ for,
eh?” he screeched again, and
teetered back and forth slightly
in enjoyment of the gusts of
laughter that followed his words.
This was his moment, and he
was hanging on to it.
“Got some news for you,” he
continued, then paused till the
people began to shuffle about
restlessly.
“Got some real interesting
news for you; some real
interesting news.” His voice
became more shrill. “You’re all
my friends here. That’s why I
bring you all the news.”
He paused again to let his
flattery sink in, and to enjoy the
attention he was receiving. “A
place without a pub ain’t a
friendly place and that’s what
me own town of Coolara is ; an
unfriendly place without a pub.
That’s another reason why I
come here to Red Flat; to get
a drink.” He raised his hand
towards them. “And because
you appreciate me here and treat
me well.”
His voice dropped to a
sorrowful lament as his hand
jerked round in the direction of
Coolara again. “No pub at all.
What a poor b town.
Forces people away if they want
a drink.”
He paused as if wrestling for
words, then, inspired, screeched
out “And about the hottest,
driest b climate in the
whole world.”
A roar of laughter followed
his outburst, but dribbled away
into silence again as he audaci-
ously took his hand off the sup-
porting post and lifted both
arms towards the crowd.
“And the people; the people
of Coolara.” There was sorrow
in his voice now, and disap-
pointment.
Someone called out “Well,
what about the people, Wonk?”
He turned slowly and with
effort towards the speaker, “I
said I had some interesting news
and I have, too. You know
Douglas, the shopkeeper at
Coolara, don’t you? And you
know he had a lovely black eye
WANAKA.
The mountain on whose shoulder
1 stood
told me in secret
I alone am rock
and rooted in rock—-
the others, look! they float
they float on a lake.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


Occasions when no Gift it
more acceptable than a
lAVMNA
SWISS MASTERPIECE
sc;
feM.
N
On every
occasion
which tra-
ditionally
ceils for a gift
of lasting value, give
a 17-jewelled Levina
Swiss Watch, it will be
cherished through the
years for its exquisite
perfection.
LAVINA
WATCHES
The Choice of MiUiom
Established 1852. Vlllarct. false*.
LW2o.il
"The Will to Live"
14-page condensation from
outstanding book
Even the layman has learned
to accept the medical fact of an
intimate tie-up between the
emotions and physical illness.
Now Dr. A, A. Hutschnecker
explains simply and fully how
your health, even the length of
your Hfe, may be profoundly
affected by your mind and
emotions . . . how you can
actually avoid illnesses by
understanding better the emo-
tional upsets that cause them.
March Reader’s Digest brings
a 14-page condensation from
the book that has been
acclaimed by doctors every-
where.
This is just one of 32 stimu-
lating articles In March
Reader's Digest—with the new
natural-color cover. Read and
enjoy it today. 1/6 at all news-
agents and bookstalls.
CINZANO
SWEETondDRY
M/?e srRAtN£R
and f=et/ceR
• TOUGH ENOUGH
FOR ANY WIRE . . .
• SMALL ENOUGH FOR
THE HIP POCKET.
HlPPO—the mighty midget that
will break 8-g. fencing wire,
strains indefinitely without biting.
Weighs only 21bs., folds to fit in
hip pocket. Mighty leverage,
simple to uae, nothing to wear out.
JR.
N
T>
%
55
Plus
Postage
MANNING & OSBORNE
ti CUSTLIBBAGH STREET, SYDNEY
No finer career for
mM
SP
m
w
YOU, YOU and YOU than
i
if
ŵ
the Navy, Army & Air Force
ONLY THE SERVICES offer you a chance to take your
place in the ranks of fighting forces that have won world-
wide respect and honour, and to share their spirit o
comradeship and their proud traditions. If you are the
right age, fit, and keen to launch out on a new, important
and interesting career, Australia’s Navy, Army and Air
Force have the right job for you, with good pay and con-
genial conditions.
ONLY THE SERVICES offer you over a hundred different
occupations from which to choose, with excellent prospects
of advancement, and on-the-spot training (on full pay) by
expert instructors. The Services make the most modem
technical knowledge available to both trained and un-
trained men and provide experience in handling newly-
developed equipment.
ONLY THE SERVICES offer you such a high degree of
financial security. In addition to regular weekly pay
adjusted to cost of living increases (with special extra
allowances for married men), there are extra benefits in
the form of free food and accommodation, free initial
clothing issue, free medical and dental care, and a pension
or gratuity on retirement. Leave period is at least three
weeks a year, with concessions in fares and travelling time.
The Services today provide generously for a man’s leisure
hours through recreational and sporting facilities and well-
equipped canteens.
the
ẁ
ẃ
NAVY, the ARMY or the AIR FORCE
Enquire at the following without obligation:
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Onr. Flinders and Begrayea Bts. In Sydney:
Out. Martin Place and Phillip Bt. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle Si. In Adelaide: Richards Building,
P 0 Ourrie Bt. In Perthl 84 King Bt. In Hobart: Franklin
84. In Launceston! Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Ittutd bg the Director-General of Recruiting PFUA.112.22
and a cut on his cheek a couple
of weeks ago? And you know
how he got them? He fell down
the back steps of his house.”
He laughed in a jibing
manner, then savored the flatter-
ing silence of his audience for a
few seconds.
“Fell down his own steps,” he
intoned slowly. “I don’t think.”
His shrill voice rose again.
“Harry Judson gave them to
him,” he shrieked. “And then
his own wife hit him, too, when
Harry told her what was hap-
pening. There ain’t no need for
me to tell you why, is there?”
D EOPLE laughed and shouted
* encouragement to him.
Several clapped. A couple
shouted “Tell us, Wonk” ; but
with heavy innuendo he con-
tinued, winking ostentatiously,
“No, no. I ain’t saying any
more than this; Mrs. Douglas
might be gettin’ a divorce soon.”
He waited for the merriment
and talking to stop. “Always
got some news for you, ain’t I?”
he asked.
“Too right; you should visit
us more often, Wonk,” one of
the shire laborers said.
“And I’m thinking of doing
that,” Wonky said. “I’ve just
about had Coolara. A town
without a pub.” He spat dis-
gustedly into the dust. “I might
be cornin’ here to live, if I can
get that old shack of Nash’s on
the far side of the creek.”
“That’s the way, Wonk.
Good on you,” some of the
men said. “Got any more
news?”
“Of course,” he replied.
“Don’t I always have news for
you? Remember what I said
about Ransome the squatter a
few weeks ago? Well, I can
add something more to that
now.”
While he was speaking a big
black car drove up and stopped
near the corner. For a moment
Wonk was forgotten as every-
one turned towards the car.
In a desperate elf or t to win
back his listeners Wonk shrieked
his loudest. “Never mind Mr.
Ransome there; I’ll tell you
something interesting about
him.”
The car door was flung open
and a heavy, florid-faced man
quivering with anger leapt out
and ran towards the hotel. “You
infamous, low liar.” His words
choked him. He fought for
sentences, then continued as he
ran towards Wonky shaking his
fists. “You dirty-minded liar.
I’ll knock your face in. I’ll”
Several men closed in on him,
grabbing for his flailing arms,
seizing his coat, holding him
back, and speaking in the
unsympathetic, soothing manner
that only increases the anger.
As the struggle went on
Wonky turned and stumbled
towards his old car.
“It’s all the truth anyhow,”
he said.
“What’s the truth?” someone
asked. “What were you going
to tell us about Ransome?”
Ransome broke free and made
another dash of a few yards
before he was stopped and held
again and told “Keep your hair
on,” and “Be a sport,” but
Wonky, seeing only the angry
man, climbed into his old car
and swung it round into the
road.
As he drove past he shrieked
“I’ll see you all again soon and
give you some news, and I’ll
probably come here to live.”
The people of Red Flat sent
a cheer after the rattling car,
and echoed the words written in
the dust on the back of it, “Good
old Wonk!”
FOR the next few weeks the
inhabitants of Red Flat
talked mainly about what
Wonky had said about the
Douglasses and Judsons, what
he had intended to say but
hadn’t said about Ransome,
Ransome’s angry and disgusting
exhibition and Wonk’s promise
that he might come to live
amongst them.
One Sunday Wonky drove up
to the old shack across the creek
and moved in. For about a
month he was very quiet and
very contented as he basked in
the friendliness that the people
of Red Flat showed to him. He
was drunk several times, but at
closing-time he merely left the
Royal Hotel and made his way
back to his hut.
“How’s Coolara now, Wonk?
Got any interesting news?”
people asked him, but he only
smiled and said “I don’t see
much of Coolara now. I never
liked the place anyway—fancy,
no pub.”
On a hot Saturday morning,
whispers began to go through the
village. “Wonk has some news
again.” “Did you hear that
Wonky is going to give us
another news-session this after-
noon?” “Good old Wonk is
going to let the cat out of the
bag again.”
As usual Dolly Stephenson
and Ada Matthews were among
the first to take up positions in
front of the hotel as the time for
Wonk’s appearance drew near.
Word had gone round that he
was in the hotel, and pretty
drunk at that As Terry Keating
passed the two women he con-
tented himself with saying “So
Wonk is going to perform again,
eh! This will be good, very
good.” He rubbed his hands
together and accented the irony
of his words by nods of his head.
The townspeople began to
drift towards the hotel.
Bennington was outside his shop
talking to Hooke. Tom Jowett
and Annie Smith were sitting
on boxes they had brought from
the store veranda, and, by a
coincidence, Moon was digging
his front garden, although he
hadn’t touched it since the last
time Wonk gave an address.
AT a few minutes past six
Wonk staggered out of the
bar, even more drunk than
usual, moored himself to the
veranda-post and surveyed the
largest audience he had ever
had.
In a high, pleased voice he
said “All waitin’ for news, eh!
Well, I got plenty of news for
you; plenty of it.”
The people of Red Flat
laughed and cheered.
“Well, Douglas’s wife is get-
ting a divorce from him, and
Harry Judson is getting a
divorce, too,”
There were more shouts from
the good-humored, laughing
crowd.
Wonk raised his long arm for
silence. “You’ll hear all about
that for yourselves later. And
do you know those horses
Ransome sold to Crowther in
town? Three of them was sick
and one was nearly blind, so
Crowther’s bringing an action
against him.”
There was more talk and
merriment, especially when
Wonk said meaningly “I got
plenty of news yet. I’m just
warmin’ up. I got some local
news.”
HE leant forward and pointed
a long, accusatory finger at
Mrs. Matthews.
“And Mrs. Matthews ain’t
Mrs. Matthews at all,” he said,
as all the heads were turned
towards the woman. “She left
her husband eight years ago, and
then she and Matthews come to
live here, but they never been
married, because she’s already
married.”
There were a few half-hearted
laughs, for all the local people
had known this and accepted it
for years.
In his eagerness Wonk hurried
on. “Moon there has been los-
ing his wood and fowls for a
long time, and I wouldn’t be
surprised if Tom Jowett was
taking them.”
Tom Jowett jumped up from
his box and shouted “You’re a
blasted liar, Baxter,”
Someone put a restraining
hand on his shoulder. The
crowd was silent now, and
Wonk, mistaking the portent of
the silence, but sensing that he
was losing hold of his audience,
rushed ahead with more news.
“Mrs. Sterling and her
husband had a row last night
and he gave her a black eye.
That’s why she ain’t been about
all day. None of you have seen
her, have you?” i
There wasn’t a sound from ]
the people. Wonk gave them a
surprised and puzzled look and
tried again.
“And as for Bonnington”
A movement went through the
crowd and a grumble came from
it. Then a couple of angry
shouts. “Why don’t you keep
your dirty mouth shut?” “Who
thq hell do you think you are?”
Wonk looked apprehensive.
There were some more angry
shouts. With a scared look
behind him he turned and
hurried awkwardly along the
hotel veranda and down the road
towards the creek.
THE people followed,
murmuring and arguing,
and occasionally calling after the
retreating man. Wonk quickened
his pace, and the people of Red
Flat quickened theirs.
In an excellent imitation of
Wonky’s voice Tom Jowett
screeched “I got some news for
you. Real interesting news. If
Wonky Baxter don’t keep his big
mouth shut I’ll shut it for him.”
A gust of laughter swept
do»n die road after Wonky, who
suddenly started to run. For a
few moments the crowd stopped
to watch him, till someone yelled
“After the liar!” and someone
else threw a stone that , made
a puff of dust yards behind the
fleeing man.
At once the people were in
pursuit, but Wonky, who had a
good lead, seemed to forget his
lame leg. As the people shouted
he clattered across the bridge
and made for his old car that
stood outside his hut.
With frightened glances behind
him he got the car started and
drove off towards Coolara as
some stones rattled on the
bonnet and his pursuers yelled
derisively “Get home where you
belong, Baxter. Get to hell back
to Coolara!”


Correct the Danger line
ẅ
w
the lINIA way
With a normal man, the line of
gravity is almost vertical.
The first sign of a deterioration
in the line of gravity is a dis-
quieting bulge at the waist line
this is the “Danger Curve”.
It is the result of progressive
downward displacement of the
abdominal organs and obesity.
The spinal column is also in-
clined to follow this unnatural
curve in maintaining the normal balance of the
body. Strongly recommended by medical men,
the LIN I A BELT counteracts this “Danger
Curve”, keeps you fit and safeguards your health
and appearance. Ideal for post-operation wear.
Write today for FREE illustrated
booklet A 22 at the address below.
LINIA BELTS
Sold in Australia only by J.feouAid of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE. Cl. Tel.: FA 8357
Branches throughout the British isles, France, Belgium. Holland, etc.
EYE LOTION
]for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co. Ptu, Ltd— Kinq Street, Sydney,
VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870. After Hours, BJ 1957.
ŵ
ẁ
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MIGRANTS GALORE.
Mr. Churchill, in a broadcast;
“If we [British] cannot earn our
living.... there will be no time
to emigrate the redundant mil-
lions for whom no food is grown
at home.”
On this, and a like statement
by Mr. Eden, an Edinburgh
“Scotsman” correspondent com-
mented :
“Neither Mr. Eden nor Mr,
Churchill uses words casually,
and with their statements coming
so close together, one may con-
clude that the desirability of a
large migration from the United
Kingdom to the receptive parts
of the Commonwealth is at least
being considered.”
Altogether more than a mil-
lion emigrants have left Britain
since the war; but, with Mr.
Churchill’s statement in mind,
the snag is that immigrants into
Britain in the time have totalled
851,000, so that the “redundant
millions” have been reduced by
only 149,000 by this means.
Latest official figures available
show Australia well down the
list of the countries the British
have been heading for, with
Canada easily first choice and the
U.S. next.
“So many more are waiting to
go,” says a London “Daily Mail”
report, “that most of the big
shipping lines have months-long
waiting-lists ; so many are think-
ing about getting out that the
busiest offices in London are
those Commonwealth Govern-
ment bureaux which specialise in
advising emigrants.”
No Scots
In the “Scotsman’s” view,
migration may be all right for
England, but there should be no
counting on any rush of Scots.
Scotland cannot afford to lose
them.
With, it says, half the area of
England and Wales, Scotland has
only about one-eighth of their
population ; and the “Scotsman”
quotes former Registrar-General
J. G. Kyd as stating that “We
certainly face the prospect of a
decreasing population, consisting
predominantly of the aged and
the infirm.”
Hence, it adds, “Scotland is
clearly in no condition to con-
tribute as generously as she has
done in the past to Common-
wealth settlement.”
Plenty Germans
Referring to the good supply
of Germans still wishing to
migrate, a London “Times”
letter-writer has recalled past
German migrants and their
“loyalty to their new country.”
Australia comes into his
advocacy of reopening the closed
avenues. He recalls that, in war-
time, 500,000 settlers of
German origin in Canada
showed no trace of dis-
loyalty ; and the same applied
to 100,000 in Australia, apart
from a few odd individuals —a
dozen or so —who were arrested:
“In South Australia there is a
belt of almost entirely German
villages. The settlers are
respected as good farmers and
loyal citizens.
“The ‘stimulus of new ground’
which achieved this applies
equally today. After the
war Australia and Canada boldly
resumed large-scale immigra-
tion ; Australia admitted 170,000
displaced persons, Canada
95,000. The fact that in Aus-
tralia only per cent, of the
displaced persons stayed on the
land points only to a failure of
method.”
Touching on current reports
that Australia is now grow-
ing too little food, the writer
added: “To many European
farmers, Italian as well as
Dutch and German, the
strongest incentive to emigration
would be offered by the chance
for families to settle on plots
of their own and, where possible,
in large groups. Family, village
and church are the roots of
European farm life, and in very
many cases replanting could still
be achieved. But every further
month of displacement tends to
sap vitality and morale. An
‘operation’ is needed. Can we
not this time devote as much
effort to peace as we take for
granted in war?”
Migration No Cure
Claims are being made that
more than 5,000,000 Europeans
will have to be moved elsewhere
by 1956 if Europe’s surplus
population problem is to be
solved.
Looking into such claims, in-
cluding that of “well-intended
persons saying that the
Americas, Australia and New
Zealand must absorb the Euro-
pean unemployed if the West is
to have prosperity and peace,”
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun” takes
a poor view of migration as a
solution of the problem.
Apart from the fact that the
claims are being pressed at a
time when “the hospitality of
the receiving countries is wear-
ing thin, and when intra-Euro-
pean migration has all but
stopped,” it holds the claims to
be based on the “unfortunately
New York “Herald Tribune.”
AH!... PROGRESS OF A SORT.
false notion that migration will
relieve surplus populations”:
“Italy, for one example, has
tried emigration before [it’s now
said to have 3,000,000 potential
migrants]. Between 1880 and
1910 Italians left home at a pro-
digious rate. Yet the total
population of Italy increased
every year during that period of
intense migration, and then
actually increased at a faster
rate than before the migration.
To put the matter in layman’s
terms, whatever had been keep-
ing down the growth-rate in
densely-populated Italy had less
application when part of the
surplus population moved out,
so that the birth-rate went up
faster than the emigrants could
leave.
“The conclusion of the
scientists is that emigration does
not bring about a decrease in
total population, except for a
brief time. Yet European well-
wishers are pushing migration as
the answer to Europe’s surplus
population.”
Lopsided U.N.O.
Not much wonder that some
weird and wonderful things
come out of U.N.0., on one
ground alone (noted by London
“Economist”):
Although the total popula-
tions of the 20 republics south
of the Rio Grande amount to
less than 10 per cent, of the com-
bined populations of United
Nations member countries, they
command a full third of all the
seats in the Assembly.
“This makes them something
more than a group whose in-
terests are always worth consult-
ing: it also gives them, in effect,
a collective veto power, for the
Assembly’s major decisions re-
quire a majority of two-thirds.
“No proposal opposed by the
united Latin Americans can
therefore be adopted, except in
the highly unlikely event of its
being supported by every one of
the other 40 members.”
"Written in Envy."
Comparisons between U.S.
newsprint consumption and
France’s meagre supply have
already been given here. Under
the quoted headline, a London
“Sunday Times” columnist
makes a British comparison.
A serious problem, he says,
had been created for the news-
boys delivering the “New York
Sunday Times” by reason of the
excessive weight of its issues.
From delivery on foot, they had
moved to delivery by bicycle,
but now nothing other than a
motor-car will do.
“The difference was put in a
dramatic form by a corres-
pondent—that on December 9
the ‘New York Sunday Times,’
with its 408 pages, used in this
single issue enough paper to
print our ‘Sunday Times’ in its
present size for more than two
years.”
Nor is there thought to be any
hope of Britain’s newspapers
increasing in size this year. The
best the Newsprint Supply Com-
pany’s general-manager, F. M.
Bishop, has been able to fore-
cast is perhaps “a modest
advance in 1953.”
Despite the papers being
restricted to “a great deal be-
low half the pre-war size,” cir-
culations have increased enor-
mously from 138,000,000
copies weekly in 1938 to
228,000,000 weekly, an increase
of 64 per cent.
Various Voices.
Angus Maude, Conservative
member of the House of
Commons : “The appeal of
Socialism was obvious; it was
naked materialism, sketchily
decked out in the seven veils of
sickly sentimentality.”
British Labor M.P., Stanley
Evans, describing U.S. foreign
policy : “A strange mixture of
romanticism and bulldozer.
Chiang Kai-shek, is the Bonnie
Prince Charlie of American
diplomacy.”
John Foster Dulles : “Many in
other countries are becoming
fearful that the United States,
which they knew and loved as
the exponent of international
righteousness, may have
succumbed to the temptation of
its new power. As a result many
foreign peoples now shun
intimacy with us [Americans]
which in earlier days they
would have sought. That is the
danger-signal we ought to heed.”
Dr. Karl Gruber, Austria's
Foreign Minister: “We are long
past the time when propagandists
and ideologists decide the value
of this or that policy. Today it
is general staffs and armament
inspectors who have the weighty
word to say.”
David Gammans, M.P., on
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer Butler’s economy
cuts: “All that Mr. Butler has
done is to put a tourniquet to
stop the patient from bleeding
to death. The next stage is
recovery. There is, however, no
economic penicillin which will
put us on our feet without effort
from ourselves. We must take
off our coats to save our shirts.”
Stanton Griffis, retiring U.S.
Ambassador to Spain : “There is
a rising tide of friendly feeling
towards Spain in the United
States based on the realisation
that Spain began to fight Com-
munism 20 years ago. In its
understanding of the dangers of
Communism and its willingness
to fight against it, Spain was 15
years ahead of the United
States.”
Head of Mitsubishi, the big
Japanese commercial combine
o quoted in London “Fort-
nightly”): “One of the greatest
assets in opening up existing re-
sources in Japan is the abundant
supply of labor provided by the
dense and increasing population.
[More than 1,500,000 annually.]
The natural resources are thus
supplemented by the human
element in a most remarkable
manner.”
Anthony Eden: “I do not
believe that the Soviet leaders
are eager to face the utter chaos
and destruction which would
result from a full-scale conflict
with the West. They are
cautious and calculating; it is
part of their dogma that the
home of the revolution must not
be needlessly endangered.”
French Foreign Minister, M.
Schuman : “In Indo-China our
policy is not in the least con-
cerned with imperialism or with
conquest. Without abandoning
French interests or those of the
associated Powers [meaning Viet
Nam, Laos and Cambodia] who
have given us their confidence,
and without wishing to open
doors to Communism, we would
not refuse an accord which
would put an end to that conflict
under conditions which would
be honorable for France.”
Truman, speaking on help to
Western Europe : “It is essential
for us to understand that,
whether we make this addition
in the form of ‘military aid’ or
‘economic aid,’ the objective
and the function are the same:
common security.”
A. W. Tuke, chairman of
Barclays Bank: “The widely
propagated belief that the mines
would produce enough coal
when the miner knew that he
was working for the community
has proved to be no more than
wishful thinking, and we have
lately had to face the humiliat-
ing necessity of importing coal
from abroad to meet our needs.
The miner, like many other
people, looks at his pay packet,
and when it contains as much
as he requires for his immediate
needs he seems to be inclined
towards additional leisure or
recreation, especially if further
earning would involve a heavy
liability to income tax, to the
payment of which he has a
strong though by no means
peculiar objection.”


Merry Wives and
Husbands.
John Alden has probably
surprised himself as much as his
“ Ton asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes, Sir ”
There are certain pleasurable occasions—out of the
ordinary, and above the everyday—which deserve and
command tributes only of the best; it is for these that
BENSONmdtiEDGES have thoughtfully provided
their Super Virginia cigarettes.
BV APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
H. M. KINO GEORGE VI
■:/ien
w
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON
W . /
IBW L 3?
SUNDRY SHOWS
Twin Twins.
John Kay’s Mercury Theatre,
which, a few years ago, set some
excellent standards in selection,
acting and production, and from
which sprang Peter Finch and
others, has reappeared at the St.
James Hall, Sydney, in some-
thing pretty close to authentic
repertory form; a different pro-
gramme every night for at least
three nights of the week any-
way. As an ambitious starter
the programmes include “The
Twin Menaechmi,” by Plautus,
and “The Comedy of Errors” ;
to be followed by Anouilh’s
“Point of Departure” ; and then
Fry’s “A Phoenix Too Frequent,”
along with Moliere’s “The
Imaginary Invalid.”
A very fine selection
altogether—something old and
something delightfully new, with
W.S. and Moliere in the middle
—and one to produce a fine
array of contrasts and com-
parisons. If, for instance,
one were to judge from the
company’s presentation of
“The Twin Menaechmi” by
Plautus (c. 254 b.c.) on the
same night with Shakspeare’s
copy of it, “The Comedy of
Errors,” one should say how
much better a playwright the
old Roman was, and contrast his
concision—not a word lost —
and his unity of place and action
with Shakspeare’s misty word-
play, especially the clowning
which, even in his good plays,
rarely comes over, though A 1
Thomas’s Dromio had style, his
interminably vaporising females,
and his Sittings hither-and-
thither.
To this admirable experi-
ment one was also indebted
for a demonstration, far better
than a lecture or an essay, of
the vast difference between
pagan and Christian comedy:
Plautus hard as sunlight, Shak-
speare soft as fog; indeed,
whoever gave Messenio (Lloyd
Berrell) the Australian slang
translation of the Latin slave’s
lines brought the old play up
more than two thousand years
—it might have happened yester-
day at Bondi. It was Shakspeare
who sounded archaic.
Of the players, John Brunskill
as the father-in-law of the
Plautus home-town twin, and
John Barnard as a parasite,
made-up and performed bril-
liantly in the style of later
Italian mime; Rodney Taylor
and Walter Sullivan carried off
energetically the somewhat
thankless parts of the twins in
both plays; as did Joan
Boulken as the Plautus wife.
Brenda Senders and Marcia
Hathaway vaporised as well as
Shakspearean women may—
does he weary us on purpose
with their longwinded speeches?
Ruth Cracknell performed the
parts of a courtesan in the
Plautus play and an Abbess in
the Shakspearean play; there
were a few deft touches (of the
hair) in Ann Donald’s Shak-
spearean harlot, and John Dease
was perfectly at home as a
Ducal quizmaster, looking like
nothing so much as the King of
Clubs —altogether the evening
was a triumph more for the
companies than for individuals,
and for the producers, Messrs.
Hans von Adlerstein and Sydney
John Kay.
The bare set by Clem
Kennedy for the Roman
theatre was as effective as the
much more involved series by
Robin Lovejoy for the Shak-
spearean effort, changes of
which slowed down the comedy
to Shakspeare’s disadvantage.
backers at the Comedy Theatre
by making a better do of Shak-
speare in Melbourne than any-
body since the immortal Allan
Wilkie. His run is in its third
month.
Tradition has it that the
present trifle was written in a
hurry at the command of
Elizabeth I because she wanted
to see the fat knight in the throes
of love, and it is doubtful if she
got more laughs out of the per-
formance than Comedy audi-
ences are getting out of Mr.
Alden’s two hours of bustle and
excitement. They are certainly
getting more than the audiences
at the Tivoli are getting out of
Roger MacDougall’s “To
Dorothy, a Son,” a farcical
comedy of the same order. Both
are about sex, both are comedies
of seduction and they both have
plots that are highly artificial;
yet there is a robustness about
the one which is absent from the
other.
Falstaff being frustrated in his
attempts at cuckold-making by
being (a) put into a clothes-
basket and dumped into a river,
{b) being mistaken for a fat
witch and cudgelled by the
husband, and (c) being tricked
into disguising himself as Herne
the hunter and being pinched and
scorched by children disguised
as fairies, promotes laughs.
At the Tivoli Jimmy Hanley,
as an alleged husband with a
real wife as well as an alleged
wife who is allegedly on the
point of being delivered of a
baby, only promotes sniggers.
For all his vanity and
ambitiousness, Falstaff is desir-
ing biological fulfilment, but
nothing as nasty as that comes
into the Tiv. show, which prob-
ably accounts for its being so
boring. Mr. Hanley didn’t have
a chance to show what mettle
he has, and Babs MacKinnon, a
capable Australian soubrette,
was completely hidden behind a
U.S. accent.
Mr. Alden’s production was
quick and jolly. William Rees
was Falstaff and did well as that
agitated jelly.
To celebrate the 125th anni-
versary of Beethoven’s death
Gerhard Willner, a migrant who
has become a British subject,
started off last week at the
Assembly Hall in Melbourne to
work his way through the 32
sonatas. The pianist began his
marathon with Op. 7, the earliest
of the series, and proceeded
through Op. 31, No. 2, Op. 79,
one of the shortest, and Op. 110,
probably one of Beethoven’s
greatest. The rest are to follow.
He must have a colossal musical
memory if he gets through that
lot, and must have done an
immense amount of practice.
What he displayed at the initial
concert was an intense admira-
tion and reverence for the com-
poser, coupled with executant
skill of no mean order, and if
he was not always altogether
note-perfect, he was always
excited and uplifted. He seemed
early to discover that the
dimensions of the Assembly Hall
aren’t large enough for Beet-
hoven’s most spacious moments
and quickly adapted himself to
the acoustics. The slow move-
ments were lovely.
* * * *
An exotic item in the latest
Music for the People concert at
Melbourne Botanic Gardens
was “Mirrabee,” an aboriginal
story about how the kangaroo
got his long legs, told by Rex
Ingamelis to the music of Elford
Mack. Aboriginal tenor Harold
Blair intoned the story, and his
perfect enunciation sent it ring-
ing through the gardens, accom-
panied by the tapping of
boomerangs and the gruff groan-
ing of the didgeroo. It was prob-
ably not the first time that the
ex-billabong of the Yarra had
heard the strange notes of
Binghi’s favorite instrument, to
which the composer had given
musical notation. There was a
haunting quality about Elford
Mack’s music. The orchestra
under Hector Crawford’s baton
played the overture from Dudley
Glass’s opera, “The Toymaker
of Nuremberg,” and there were
songs by Kathleen Goodall.
Conductor Crawford had his
usual halycon weather.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Rawt,
C.8.E.; G. S. Coltnan, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Thomas B. Heffer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdcry.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Are you going uhraud ?
Before going abroad it is well to consider the advantages that accrue from the appointment
of The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited as your Attorney or Agent. It
supervises business affairs and interests, remits intome regularly, collects rents, dividends and
interest, prepares Land and Income Tax returns, attends to the investment of moneys, the
payment of rates and taxes, and performs all similar services.
Ample security is offered for the proper fulfilment of all such obligations. An interview can
be arranged to suit your convenience.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
2*
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,964
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Cos. (Aust.), Ltd.
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends N Nominal
Pref. Re-
Oct., Profit. p.c. Ordinary. serves.!
£ £ £ £
1942.. 983,187 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,407,541
Unexplained addition, £16,112 ..1,423,653
1943.. 981,427 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1.450,418
Unexplained addition, £9902 ..1,460,320
1944.. 961.910 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,467,568
Unexplained addition, £16,305 .. 1,483,873
1945.. 948,915 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,478,126
Unexplained addition, £13,090 ..1,491,216
1946.. 960,158 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,496,712
Unexplained reduction, £6083 . . 1,490,629
1947.. 951,403 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,487,370
Unexplained addition, £736 .-. 1,488,106
1948.. 956,324 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,489,768
Share premiums, £1,338,848 .. 2,828,616
Unexplained reduction, £3OIB ..2,825,598
1949.. 999,983 111,188 9 p.c. = 883,640 2,830,753
,„-„ Unexplained addition, £6483 ..2,837,236
1900. . 813,247 111,188 61p.c. = 696,201 2,843,094
neXplained addition, £11,277 ..2,854,371
1951.. 1,065,399 111,188 9 pc. = 963,970 2,844,612
* After deducting outsiders’ interests.
I subject to intangibles (now £8,969,238), and
excludes property and plant reserve, £3,328,436.
Despite the recovery of net earnings last
term, the price of the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords.
7 they parade with the leaders in the
industrial section of the market —came
down in more or less orderly steos from
a peak of 495. early in 1951 to" 38s. in
Nov., strengthened to 40s. in December,
and then eased to 375. 3d. last week, when
the market exhibited a pathological con-
dition known as technical weakness, due
chiefly to nervousness accompanied by
lack of buying support. The explanation
of the over-all drift lies not in any latent
weakness in the trade or in the business
itself, which is obviously showing re-
newed vigor, but in the changes that have
occurred, and are still occurring, in our
economic and financial climate, and in
the chain of reactions that have followed
in their wake. Equities have necessarily
lost part of the premium they formerly
commanded as a hedge against inflation
because of the action taken by the Gov-
ernment to contain the evil. The course
of interest rates in the gilt-edged market
has had its effect upon equity prices, too.
Has the market now touched rock-
bottom? Some months are likely to elapse
before a firm answer can be given to this
question. Technical and seasonal factors
apart, the major influences which have
brought about the present situation have
been the Government’s anti-inflation
policy—especially the severe credit
restrictions, limitation of new capital
issues and higher income, sales and other
taxes —and the sharp drop in export in-
come and growth of imports. All these
and other things have brought about a
period of financial stringency in which
many cos. are finding increasing difficulty
in financing turnover at current levels, let
alone expansion. If, as seems likely, the
Government succeeds in checking the up-
ward spiral of costs and prices, then some
value can be expected to flow back into
the Australian pound and a sounder basis
will be established for the conduct of
business.
At 375. 3d. the co.’s ords. return an
attractive 4.8 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis,
which, except for 1950, has been an
annual event for the last 11 years. The
6i p.c. prefs. at 28s. (31s. 7d. a year ago)
yield 4.6 p.c. Excluding the property and
plant reserve (£3,328,436, or 85.3 p.c, of
the book value of fixed assets), net tan-
gible cover is visibly £6 12s. Id. prefs.
and 17s. lid. ords.
The parent holding co, and its five main
operating subsidiaries are a very efficient
organisation, which has a strong grip
upon the Australian tobacco trade and a
pleasing history as a profit-earner and
dividend-payer. Consumption of tobacco
is running well ahead of slowly-
expanding local production, the gap being
filled by imports, the manufactured
portion of which mostly contains leaf of
dollar origin and retails at higher prices
than locally-made products.
Early in the 1950 term the group held
large quantities of American leaf bought
at pre-devaluation prices—a prudent
policy. But the Government, despite the
big leap in post-devaluation price of leaf
to Australian buyers, continued to fix
selling-prices on the basis of pre-
devaluation cost (until such stocks were
exhausted) instead of upon the common-
sense principle of averaging. One result
was the lameness of the co.’s net earnings
for that term, and another reduction of
the div. to 6j p.c., lowest rate since 1936.
The position was remedied by a lift in
selling-prices early last term. Production
increased and so did sales of cigarettes
imported from the big B.T. co. in London.
Increased 'efficiency in manufacture and
distribution also helped to offset the
effects of rising wage and other costs.
The Sept., 1951, rise in selling-prices was
on account of increased-excise, from which
the Government alone benefited. After
allowing £228,552 (up £32,190) for depre-
ciation and something for taxation and
other contingencies, the board was able to
show £252,152 more profit at £1,065,399.
That covered the pref. div. and 8.9 p.c. on
the £10,710,781 of ord. capital as against
6.5, 9, 9, 8.9 and 9 p.c. back to 1946. So
visibly reserves had to be drawn upon for
£9759 to pay the 9 p.c. div. To help offset
the continued rise in both wages and the
cost of leaf a further increase of Id. an
ounce in the selling-price of tobacco (not
cigarettes) was granted as from March 1.
One of the board’s acute problems at
the moment is provision of adequate
working capital, the amount of which is
being constantly increased by the need to
carry large stocks of leaf at high and ris-
ing prices and by the growth of operating
costs: —
Consolidated Figures.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £12,421,369 £12,421,369 £12,421,369
Outside shares* 91,174 91,174 90,199
Deprec. reserve 2,937,447 3,100,077 3,328,426
Creditors, etc.f 2.479,696 3,662,462 6.534,830
Final divs. .. 107,108 267,770 107,108
Freeholds .. 1,622,392 1,555,376 1,532,662
Plant, etc. .. 2,185,907 2,286,205 2,368,963
Stocks . . 11,154,779 13,507,626 15,587,405
Debtors . . 1,413,229 813,071 1,654,243
Shares other cos. 101 101 101
Cash, etc. .. 621,479 254,420 214,023
Goodwill, etc... 3,969,660 3,969,238 3,969,238
* Includes proportion of reserves. f Includes over-
draft and tax provision, etc.
To meet last term’s net additions of
£2,079,779 to stocks and £841,172 to book
debts the co. went to its bankers for an
extra £2,782,658, raising the overdraft to
£3,675,142. A couple of years ago share-
holders put up £2,667,696 (one half
capital and the other half share-pre-
miums) mainly for the purpose of wiping
out the overdraft.
Kauri Timber Co.
Kauri Timber and Subsidiaries^
( Dividends To Re- Ee-
Aug., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
Reserves, new subsidiary, £216 .. 240.151
Added intangibles, £139,392 .. 100,759
1947.. 76,148 — 5 37,500 38,648 139.407
From outside interests, £14,774..'
Reserves, new subsids., £28,652.. ...
Added intangibles. £100,624 .. ‘ ' S,0A0
Reduction reserves, £3694 ..
1948. .133,408 — 64 48,750 84,658 163,173
Net reserve adjustments, £15,505 .. 178,678
Added intangibles, £101,174 .. 77.504
1949. .206,182 — 6i 48,750 157,432 234.936
Reduction intangibles, £26,763 .. 261,699
Net reserve adjustment, £35,537 .. 297,236
1950. .233,236 5 8 81,250 151,986 449,222
To taxation, £8822 .. .. .. 440,400
Capital profit, £2624 .. .. 443,024
Added intangibles, £92,109 .. .. 350,915
Reduction reserves, £40,617 .. 310,298
1951. .382,123 5 8 85,000 297,123 607,421
* After deducting intangibles, now £515,782.
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
The heartening and extraordinary leap
in net earnings since 1947 is due to
the rapid expansion of the group —largest
of its kind in Australasia —by absorptions
and otherwise, under very favorable
trading conditions. The big freehold and
leasehold timber-stands are in New Zea-
land, Westralia, Tasmania, Victoria and
the Solomon Islands; the mills and mer-
chandising organisation are scattered
throughout the Dominion and the Aus-
tralian States, except N. S. Wales ; and
there are drying kilns and boxmaking
and plywood plants in the Dominion and
at Melbourne and Brisbane.
And the expansion has been financed
with comparatively cheap debenture
(£400,000 4 p.c.) and preference
(£500,000 5 p.c.) capital. The debenture
money was gathered in 1947, and used
to help buy the old-established Adelaide
business of Globe Timber Mills,
strengthen the fleet of small vessels en-
gaged in the Tasmanian timber trade,
erect new joinery works, and quicken
and cheapen logging by mechanisation.
Purchase of additional interests in New
Zealand and Tasmania followed, anew
mill was erected at Northcliffe (W.A.),
and logs from the Solomons began to
come forward again for conversion into
plywood at Melbourne. To help meet
the further outlay involved, the A.M.P.
Society put up the pref. capital, which
is redeemable between 1955 and 1968,
shortly before the close of accounts in
1949.
Last term two more businesses were
welded into the organisation—Limberlost
Lumber Mills Pty., which handles moun-
tain ash and messmate cut in the neigh-
borhood of Nayook (Vic.), and Douglas
Jones Pty., whose well-established timber
merchandising business is at Perth. The
sum involved in these purchases isn’t
mentioned, but the parent co.’s holdings
in subsidiaries increased by £163,821.
Additions were also made to mill build-
ings and plant at various centres, and
logs from the Solomons and rimu from
New Zealand came along in increased
volume.
The big increase in turnover (amount
not disclosed) more than took care of the
evergreen advance in costs. After
allowing for depreciation (£234,935, up
£70,462), debenture interest (£16,000) and
taxation (£428,048, up £150,310), net
earnings of the group were £148,887
stronger at £382,123. The pref, div. called
for £25,000, and the £357,123 that
remained was a juicy 47.6 p.c. on the
£750,000 of ord. capital, compared with
28.3, 27.5, 17.7 and 10 p.c. for the
four preceding years—the conversion of
timber-stands into saleable products and
their marketing takes time. That leaves
out of the reckoning an unexplained
reduction of £40,617, and other minor
adjustments, in reserves. The cautious
board kept the div. at a moderate 8 p.c.
The year’s profit, plus debenture interest,
was equal to 14.3 p.c. on debenture, prefer-
ence and ordinary capital and reserves
(before deducting intangibles) combined.
Obviously the debenture and pref. moneys
are earning a lot more than their keep;
and after earmarking £41,000 towards
their redemption there was still plenty of
elbow room for a lift in the div.
The continued expansion of the group
is further reflected in the following
comparison of combined balance-sheet
figures:
Parent and Subsidiary.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. £1,100,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside interests.. 348,980 345,100 383,727
Debentures .. 400,000 400,000 400,000
Overdraft . . .. 472,142 366,818 592,677
Sundry creditors* 713,774 834,620 1,104,144
Suspense account.. 62,019 38,213 52,298
Final div 33,750 37,500 37,500
Properties .. 550,617 570,367 834,675
Plant, etc. .. 672,210 759,407 819,745
Shares in other cos. 106,550 108,302 108,222
Stocks . . . . 1,147,046 1,219,519 1,470,231
Book debts .. 707,772 899,790 1,084,645
Cash, etc 181,406 164,088 110.249
Intangibles . . 450,436 423,673 515,782
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s net addition to properties was
£264,308, to plant £60,338, to stocks
£250,712 and to book debts £184,855. To
help meet the outlay the overdraft was
increased by £225,859 and the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., by
£269,524.
Turnover of the group has been “well-
maintained” since the close of accounts,
though sales of some highly-priced im-
ported timbers have tended to ease. Also,
a further £209,600 of debenture money
has been raised, ranking pari passu with
the 1947 issue, to finance acquisition of
another Tasmanian timber business.
At 395. 3d. (455. 6d. a year ago) the
f.-p. pound ords. return 4.1 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis, with prospects. The
prefs. are not listed. Net tangible cover
per ord. share is 365. 2d.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946.. 28,502 10 p.c. = 17,977 5,525 103,611
Share premiums, £23,438 .. .. 127,049
1947.. 29,379 10 p.c. = 19,531 9,848 136,897
1948.. 29,132 10 „ „ 24,610 4,522 141,419
Share premiums, £22,500 .. .. 163,919
1949.. 36,116 10 p.c.= 28,880 7,236 171,155
Share premiums, £22,500 .. .. 193,655
1950.. 43,080 10 p.c. = 32,224 10,856 204,511
Revaluation of assets, £105,529 ~ 310,040
Reserves capitalised, £78,750 .. 231,290
Profit realisation of assets, £51,581.. 282,821
1951.. 69,315 10 p.c. = 46,501 22,814 305,035
* After deducting transfers to staff fund.
Shareholders have fared well in the
rapid and profitable post-war develop-
ment of this 55-year-old. The steady 10
p.c. div. —an annual event since 1937
has been sweetened with new share issues
totalling £322,000 over the six years to
the close of last accounts. Of this total
£91,250 was bonus scrip and £230,750
cash issues, which also brought in £74,688
of share premiums. Not only did the
bonus scrip—the last £78,750 of which
was handed out in Feb., 1951 —take the
sting out of the share premiums, but the
cash issues themselves were partly in the
nature of bonuses to shareholders because
of the high price at which the old shares
stood in the market.
To finance continued expansion of the
undertaking, those on the register at Oct.
2 (a few weeks before the close of
accounts) were offered 236,250 new £1
shares at a premium of Bs. each, payable
95., including 4s. premium, by Oct. 31
and the balance as required. When all
the money is in the issue will lift paid
capital to £708,750, on which 10 p.c.
will call for only £1560 more profit than
was shown last term ; and reserves will
benefit by £94,500 of share premiums.
“Despite certain general trading trends,
demand for the co.’s specialised products
is increasing,” the chairman says. The
market, therefore, doesn’t expect the 10
p.c. div. to be interfered with, and prices
the old f.-p. £1 shares at 425. (445, three
months ago), giving a return of 4.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis the contribs., at 18s. 3d., give an
immediate return of 2.7 p.c., or 5.3 p.c.
when fully paid. Net tangible cover,
including the new issue, is 31s. 3d.
The profit shown in the table is the
net amount available to shareholders.
Last term’s £69,315 (up £26,235) was the
sum remaining after sending £22,831 (up
£10,329) to the staff superannuation fund,
as well as allowing for depreciation
(£32,328, up £9681) and taxation (£60,000,
up £40,000), It was 14.9 p.c. on average
capital, as against 13.4, 12.5, 11.1, 15, 13
and 13.8 p.c. back to 1945. And the
position was better than stated, the year’s
combined net earnings of the parent and
its Westralian subsidiary being £77,600.
The parent, which has a close associa-
tion with the Lamson organisation over-
seas, specialises in manufacture of office
equipment and commercial stationery,
etc., turned out from factories in all States
except Tasmania, where a sales branch
looks after the local market. Completion
of the new Kingsgrove factory (near
Sydney) helped last term’s figures along,
and is expected to give the current year’s
earnings a bigger lift. Also additions
have been made to the Adelaide and
Perth factories, and anew subsidiary,


THE
SHOW
4th to 15th April , 1952
FROST’S ORNITHOPTER 1902.
Type: Experimental power driven ornithopter.
Construction : Convential ornithopter construction
with monoplane wood-rib wings covered with
fabricated feathers. Feathers consist of laminated
cane spines carrying natural bird type feathers as
vanes. Power Plant: 3 H.P. D.A.T. Single cyl.
petrol engine directly coupled to standard flapping
mechanism. The Mk. 1, of course was steam
driven. Performance: Designed max. flap rate
100 f.p.m. Designed speed at full flap 23 m.p.h.
Today great airlines rely on the trained
precision of BP Aviation Service fuelling
teams the men who wear the green and
yellow colours of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company, Ltd.
SERVICE
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd., Ail States
Telegraphic Address “Airbeepee” Melbourne
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Long Range Weather Forecasting,
by G. W. Nowland.
Hon. Consultant to Hong Kange
Weather Trust, Sydney.
Book of 126 pages, with monthly and
annual Forecasts, 12 years, 1951 to 1962,
for Q.< N.S.W., Vic. and South Aust.
Data from 1789.
Obtainable from 6. W. Nowland,
95 Barker Street, Casino.
Price 10/6 posted.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HENRY WILLIS GARRETT late of
Ballina.—TAKE NOTICE that VIOLET
GARRETT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2832 of 1951 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before 16th May
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from THOS. E. RUM-
MERY & LIDDY, Petitioner’s Solicitors,
Lismore.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Telephones: FA 2176 (8 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Bobin 31. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
The importance of
Planning your Will
Your Estate will not yield its maxi-
mum for the protection of your
dependents unless your Will has been
carefully planned.
Changing conditions and the complexities
of taxation are two important problems to
be considered; there are many others known
to those whose business it is to administer
Estates, but which can be easily overlooked
by those not so experienced.
By discussing your problems, in confi-
dence, with Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited, you will have the benefit of the
Company’s more than 64 years’ experience
in the administration of Estates as a guide
to the wise planning of your Will.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor and Trustee
alone or jointly with a relative or friend
you will solve another important problem;
you will ensure that, when your guiding
hand is withdrawn, your Estate will be
efficiently and economically managed in the
best interests of your dependents.
The Company has wide
experience in the handling
of Estates of many different
kinds investment, indus-
trial and pastoral.
If you would have par-
ticulars of the services
offered by the Company ,
ring B 0377, or write and
make an appointment. A
Senior Officer will be pleased
to give the information you
desire.
ẁ
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
H. V. DOUGLASS. Managing Director
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH AND ORANGE
IhjmpoUmfcUnkwj
tfcg Hnmcid ckmu
. . A man with family
responsibilities who puts his
money into any other form of
investment, before he has ar-
ranged adequate life assurance,
is gambling with the future of
his dependants. No man knows
his life span . . .
was founded in 1869 on a purely mutual
basis policyholders alone share all
profits - you secure Life Assurance at
I nett cost. All monies contributed and
I all such monies earn are ultimately
returned to you or your beneficiaries in
1 protection or cash.
™ NATIONAL MUTUAL
UfCASSOCIATION°tfA/ LTD.
ESTABLISHED in 1869 UnfcUKi.4
Head Office 395 Colins Street,Melbourne
NEW SOUTH WALES—3SO George St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND—293 Queen St., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—King William Street,
Adelaide. „
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—St. George’s Ter-
race, Perth.
TASMANIA —Macquarie St., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND —Chief Office, Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
“The ‘Wild Cat' Monthly” A Review of Markets, Financial
Conditions, Company Accounts* Mining Activities. Published by
“The Bulletin?’ Price 2/-.
Lamson Paragon (N.Z.), Ltd.,
recently came into production at
Hamilton (N.Z.).
During the year the book-
value of freeholds (up £135,008
net) was written up by £105,529.
They still appear at a figure
substantially below market
value, as evidenced by sale of
one of the Sydney properties for
£79,000, or £44,815 in excess of
its written-up book-value: —
1949. 1950. 1951.
Paid capital .. 311,384 365,044 472,500
Calls in advance — — 40,405
Creditors, etc... 124,855 187,773 340,661
Tax reserve . . 44,881 43,921 86,468
Staff fund ., 14.881 35,000 55,000
Final div. .. 28,880 32,224 46,501
Premises .. 104,258 162,296 297,304
Plant, etc. .. 184,408 232,486 318,111
Stock . . .. 259,605 282,044 379,830
Book debts .. 120,373 153,709 259,763
Cash and
sundries .. 3,385 3,813 5,241
Shares .. 34,125 34,125 86,921
To carry an extra £106,054 of
book debts and £97,786 of
stocks and increase the plant
item by £85,625 and sharehold-
ings by £52,796 the co, went to
its bankers and others for a
further £152,888.
Richardson & Wrench ( Syd.)
Re-
Dec. Profit, f Dividends.— N serves.
£ £ £
1943.. 3,482 6 p.c. = 3,150 12,825
1944.. 2,035 5 ., „ 2,625 12,235
1945.. 7,515 10 „ ., 5,250 t
Staff bonus, £1750 .. f ’
1946.. 11.129 15 p.c. = 7,874 7
Staff bonus, £2000 .. 3 ’
1947.. 4,866 12£p.c.= 6,562 12,309
1948.. 8,128 12i „ „ 6,563 13,874
Staff bonus, £1250 .. 12,624
1949.. 12,412 15 p.c. = 7,875 17,161
Staff bonus, £2000 .. 15,161
1950.. 30,870 30 p.c. = 15,750 30,281
Staff bonus, £6023 .. 24,258
1951.. 22.915 30 p.c. = 15,750 31,423
Staff bonus, £5255 .. 26,168
This 92-year-old is one of
Sydney’s leading real-estate
businesses. The policy is to dis-
tribute profits as they are earned.
Dividends as well as earnings
therefore follow the ups and
downs of metropolitan property
market. Last term all sections
of the business—auction and
private sales, stock and station,
valuations, fair-rent appraisals
and property management—con-
tinued to expand. Property
sales again exceeded £4,000,000.
The drop of £7955 in net earn-
ings was due entirely to the
growth in exes., including taxa-
tion. The £22,915 of profit was
an attractive 43 6 p c on capital,
as against 58.8, 23.6, 15.9 and
9.2 p.c. for the four preceding
xhe div was kept at
ine UIV. WUS p
JO P- c -> maKing average Ulblil
bution OVCI* the last SCVCU years
'17.8 p.c compared with an
average of 7.8 p.c. for the pre-
ceding quinquennium, which
felt fte full blast of war-time
restrictions and controls, etc.
t W mnro
Appearances are that m e
P pofit 'T as earned during the first
than u l ® second half of last
term - Toward the close ot
accounts and since the real-estate
market has lost a lot of its
former buoyancy, especially for
home properties. Here the ranks
of buyers have thinned c0n-
.,,, , . ,
siderably, and prices have
dropped from boom to more
reasonable levels. This is parti-
cularly so for properties in the
over-£SOOO class, where some
speculators and others are now
finding their commitments, based
on the artificial conditions of
the last few years, burdensome.
Still, it is a healthy adjustment,
indicative of the partial passing
G f the easy-money era in luxury
and other trades, not of a com-
plete collapse of the property
market. The potential demand
for homes is still greater than
the supply. But, speaking gener-
ally, mortgagees are now seek-
ing a wider margin of security
by asking for bigger down-
payments, and the all-round
tightening of credit has resulted
in some reduction in the volume
of mortgage money available.
There is still a strong, unsatisfied
demand for good shop and
factory premises; a state of
affairs likely to continue for
some time yet —apart from
materials, capital investment in
this field is still more or less
controlled.
There is nothing to worry
about in the co.’s finances:
1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital .. £52,500 £52.500 £52.500
Trust a/c .. 79,665 69,738 55,251
Sundry creditors 412 977 166
Tax provision.. 6,809 18,468 24,325
Final div., etc. 7,250 14,500 11,130
Freeholds, etc. 65,650 65,650 65,650
Equipment . . 2,120 4,794 5,477
Advances .. 2,045 1,966
Shares other cos. 2,986 3,022 3,058
Cash, etc. . . 81,669 93,399 83,041
Sundry debtors 7,356 11,610' 12,313
The amount held on trust and
the tax provision, etc,, were more
than covered by cash alone at
the end of 1951.
In last week’s nervous share-
market sellers asked 555. for the
co.’s f.-p. 15s. shares, which had
sold as high as 655. in 1951. The
return at 555. would be 8.2 p.c.
on a 30 p.c. div. basis, or 4.9 p.c,
on a distribution averaging
18 p.c., which would call for
£9450 p.a.
Western Queen (1936), N.L.
(B. 26/12/’sl), is to offer
600,000 new Is. shares, payable
3d. application and allotment
and the balance as required, one
half to existing shareholders and
the other half to the public. The
money is wanted to test and
develop tin and tantalite deposits
at Greenbushes (W.A.) over
which the co. holds an option.
The secretary reports that the
alluvium in the claims concerned
are “very free of clay and pre-
sent no treatment difficulties.
It is the present intention of the
co. to treat only the alluvium,
leaving the lode formation to
future treatment. These lode
formations contain some
colloidal material. Many
thousands of tons of lode
material were treated by the late
Mr. F. Dane Freeman from the
Vulcan Cut, and no great
difficulties were encountered in
treatment of same.” In the past
more than £1,000,000-worth of
tin has been won from this field,
and geologist F. G. Forman has
reported favorably on the co. s
prospects there.
* * * *
Zircon Rutile, Ltd., which is
treating beach sands at Byron
Bay (N.S.W.), reports that profit
for the six months to Dec. 31
last was “well maintained,” de-
spite rising costs. For the year
to June 30, 1951, the co. netted
£23,956 (up £16,186), or 18.8 p.c.
on capital and lifted the div.
from 5 p.c. to 15 p.c. Revival of
U.S., British and Continental
demand for the concentrates has
stiffened the price and placed
Australian producers in the
happy position of having to turn
buyers away instead of having to
hunt for them. Sellers recently
asked 255. for the f.-p. 10s.
shares, which had dropped to
17s. 9d. in 1951.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Harold Park, the Sydney night-trotting
ground, was like a transformation scene
from a pantomime when the Inter-
Dominion Trotting Carnival completed
its social programme with an event com-
pletely new to Sydney, an evening garden-
party for 1500 people. Not only flowers
and shrubs, but tall trees appeared as
if by magic in the raceway, to disappear
again by the following night when the
final of the championship was run —or
should it be “paced”? Firs, poplars and
gum-trees were festooned with fairy
lights, which encircled the whole area of
the garden-party and made a glittering
pool of light in the surrounding raceway.
A dancing-floor had been erected in the
open, and supper was served from lighted
marquees all along its edge. In the calm,
starlit night the effect was unusual and
beautiful.
Art shows and competitions seem to be
continuous in Sydney now. Any week
you may attend the opening of a new
one or, as last week, three new ones (all
at David Jones’s Gallery). For a short
space the main gallery was occupied by
paintings by the Pascals, “Paul Robin”
and “Pascal,” French and son and
father respectively, who came to Aus-
tralia last year and now spend their days
house-painting, their evenings in art.
Among the lively and well-dressed crowd
who heard the Consul-General for
France, Monsieur Jean Strauss, open the
show were Madame Pascal, with her
daughters Daniele (16) and Noelle (12).
Mrs. H. W. Hutchinson looked very
smart in black with a small red hat, and
Mrs. J. B. Clarkson’s grey shantung suit
was highlighted by a yellow bonnet with
a forward tilt. Joyce Bianci and Alice
Danciger were elegantly dressed but
hatless.
The display of Scandinavian furnish-
ings, china and glassware drew a large
crowd, for the number of people
interested in interior decorating in Sydney
today is considerable. The designs from
the Scandinavian countries are large,
bold, sunny, clearcut and streamlined.
They seem to fit into the Australian way
of living very well, but their essential
charm is their buoyancy and newness, so
that conservative souls begin to wonder
whether they are quite the thing with
which to grow old,
Scandinavia was also to the fore at
the exhibition of children’s illustrations
for Hans Andersen’s fairy-tales, which
was opened by the Consul-General for
Denmark, Mr. Henning Hergel. Liqueurs
were served, a new development of the
sherry serving which was initiated at the
Macquarie Galleries. Mr. Hergel pre-
sented the prizes and chose Danish
spoons, china figurines and books. “The
next best thing to being born with a
silver spoon in one’s mouth,” he said,
“is to win one at an early age.” Among
the prizewinners were girls from
Willoughby Domestic Science School and
Newtown Public School. A special prize
was awarded to Cundletown School,
which had sent in 90 entries.
An Outpost of the Church of
England, written by the Rev. Brother
Phillip Crawford, deals with the history
of the parish of Nyngan which, the
author points out, is as large as Belgium
or Yorkshire. Brother Crawford belongs
to the Brotherhood of the Good
Shepherd, and for five years was a Bush
Brother in charge of this parish. His
history is largely written from the
registers of births, marriages and deaths,
the minute-books and correspondence of
the vestry and deeds held at the
Registrar’s office, Bathurst. Conse-
quently it gives a rather arid picture of
the parish, with struggles for the collec-
tion of enough money to keep going a
constant concern. A little more warmth
might have been infused into the booklet
by including reminiscences of local
families connected with the church, and
some pictures of that life which inevitably
circulates round the “little bush church”
(of whatever denomination) in country
places of Australia.
One of the things upsetting the
family budget is an invention called “The
Economy Size” packet. Grocers, etc.,
will send these “economy” packets to any-
one who doesn’t specify otherwise, so
that the bill is even more inflated than
ever. They are always enormous, much
too large to fit into one’s cupboard, and
cost nearly twice as much as the ordinary
packet. Doubtless they would last twice
as long in theory, but generally one gets
tired of them, or they fall over and spill,
or the contents go stale. In any event,
the name “Economy Size” remains ironic
when one considers that one invariably
pays very much more for them.
A mannequin parade will be a feature
of the fete to be held in the grounds of
Admiralty House on March 15 in aid of
the N.S.W. College of Nursing. The
models will be Pat Woodley, Dawn
Batley, Peggie Thompson and Gwen Wil-
kinson. Chips Rafferty will help with the
chocolate-wheels, and the fun will con-
tinue from 1 p.m. to 5.30 p.m.
Angelina Arena (in our photo) is a
young Sydney singer of considerable
talent who will be heard in the forthcom-
in opera season. She will sing the role
of Nedda in “Pagliacci.” Angelina is also
the N.S.W. contestant in the first heat of
the 1952 “Mobil Quest.” This
Commonwealth-wide contest to find
Australia’s finest singing voices offers
£lOOO as first prize. The contestants will
be heard over Station 2UW beginning
towards the end of March.
This is the season of general meetings
with election of officers and plans for the
year. The number of times people are
being exhorted to “put their shoulders to
the wheel” must have reached a record
this week, although Mrs. C. M. Guiney
put it a bit differently when she thanked
the members of the Lady Mayoress’s Re-
lief Fund Committee for their work dur-
ing the past year (they raised over £2000).
“Thanks very much for the way you
worked last year,” she said. “All I can
say is please work much harder this
year.” The first effort is being made by
Mrs. A. E. Graham, of 24 Village High
Road, Vaucluse, who is holding a card
party on March 24 in aid of the fund.
Anyone who would like to go should get
in touch with her before that date.
In all those circles and from all those
people interested in improving the status
of women one hears the same
recurring theme, “Women are apathetic.
They don’t want to improve their con-
ditions.” Perhaps they want the con-
ditions improved, but most of them don’t
want somebody else to do it. In
summarising the findings of the recent
Pan-Pacific Women’s conference at
Christchurch (N.Z.), Dr. Tess Carmichael
told the general meeting of the National
Council of Women that the two things
which held back improvement in the status
of women were agreed to be illiteracy
and apathy. In countries like Cambodia
women are back working in the fields
about three days after their babies are
born. They cannot nurse their children,
who are fed by the grandparents on rice
chewed up to a pulp and then spat into
the baby’s mouth. Infant mortality is
about 40 p.c. It was felt that the only
way such women could be interested in
better conditions at all was through im-
provement to their families.
The Council of the Bth Division and
Service Associates announces that three
further grants of £25 each will be made
for 1952 to children of deceased
prisoners-of-war of the Japanese, to help
with their education. Each applicant
should send name and address, together
with deceased father’s regimental number,
name and unit, to the Secretary, Box
3388 G.P.0., Sydney, who will forward
a questionnaire for further details of age,
circumstances, etc., required by the
Selection Committee. Applications close
March 31, 1952.
From “Kesen,” of Chinchilla (Q.), comes
the information that West Australia’s
only woman pilot, Margaret Clark, is a
product of Queensland, having been born
within sight of the Glass House Moun-
tains near Brisbane. Her mother’s people
are from North Queensland, and Charters
Towers in its heyday knew them well.
Margaret was brought up on a north
coast farm and received her final school
education at Somerville House, when it
was moved from Brisbane to Stanthorpe.
In the news recently when her plane came
down in lonely country near Meekatharra,
she had been mentioned previously when
she held a brief record for altitude
flying.
From Melbourne
To David Silk, owner of Giro’s, must
go most of the credit for the £lO5O raised
from a cabaret dinner-dance for the Lord
Mayor’s Hospital Appeal, for not only
did he donate Giro’s for the dance, but
he provided the dinner and an excellent
floor-show. Another highlight of the
entertainment was the appearance of
stars from the “Kiss Me Kate” company,
a contribution from Frank Tait, whose
wife was a member of the small commit-
tee who arranged the dinner-dance. The
Lord Mayor was there with his daughter,
Mrs. John Inkster, who is Lady
Mayoress ; her gown of black tulle was
splashed with silver sequins. Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, another committee-
member, had as guests her daughter-in-
law, Mrs. Robert Wallace Mitchell, who
teamed a white broderie Anglaise bodice
with a pink faille skirt, Mrs. G. W.
Spensley, whose choice was pink and
silver brocade, and Mrs. Roy King. Mrs.
Norman Spry wore geranium-red tulle
with red velvet appliqued on the bouffant
skirt and with a wide ruffle outlining the
off-the-shoulder bodice. A ballerina
frock of white organza with a 'faint pat-
tern of black leaves was worn by Coral
Griffith. Heavy black lace fashioned
Mrs. Frank Tait’s gown. Aqua-blue satin
brocade was worn by Mrs. Eric Cottrell,
and brocade in aqua tonings by Mrs.
Vic Nilsen. Mrs. Ken Luke, whose hus-
band w'as one of the prime movers, with
Bill Dooley, in the function, wore black
crepe. Sue Kaufman, the hon. secretary
for the night, wore gold-spangled bronze
tulle.
Major-General Kingsley Norris, chair-
man of the Citizens’ Appeal Committee,
launched the Red Cross March Appeal
in the Town Hall reception-room ; already
donations received totalled nearly
£5OOO. He was deputising for the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, who was
too ill to attend. Sir Dallas sent a mes-
sage commending the appeal and a
generous cheque. Lieut.-General Sir
Horace Robertson and Premier McDonald
stressed the importance of keeping the
Red Cross supplied with money. Among
the women present were Mrs. Alan
Spowers, Mrs. George Scantlebury, Dame
Mary Daly, Mrs. Eric Cottrell, Dr. Lucy
Bryce, Mrs. Basil Logus (representing the
members of the Greek Red Cross), Mrs.
Donald Curtis-Otter (of the Girl Guide
Movement) and Miss Sybil Irving.
Here is Maggie Fitzgibbon, a Mel-
bourne girl who is playing a big part in
making “Kiss Me, Kate” such a success
in this city. Maggie’s mother was a
child performer, and her grandfather
trained and rode horses in the Bland Holt
melodramas. Maggie’s career began as
a tap-dancer when she was 10 years of
age, and for five successive years she was
principal boy on the Tivoli circuit. She
has also played in comedy at Sydney’s
Palace Theatre. Several years ago Maggie
was the candidate of her aunt (Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell) in the Miss Australia
Quest, and was a finalist.
At the Town Hall on March 14
will be opened an antique exhibition of
furniture, glass and china. Louis Nelken
is president of the committee, which plans
to have three complete room-settings in
the exhibition. Furniture for the dining-
room and bedroom will come from the
collection of Sir Keith and Lady Mur-
doch ; for the drawing-room Lady Gullett
will send pieces from her home ; and also
from her home Mrs. G. I. Stevenson
will contribute furniture. Lady Gullett’s
daughter, Mrs. Paul Hackforth Jones,
who is on a brief visit from England, has
been helping the committee list the an-
tiques which will be shown. The ex-
hibition, proceeds from which will go to
the British Memorial Fund and Y.W.C.A.,
will be open for 13 days. Tickets may
be obtained from Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald
(UY6869).
Mrs. Tom Carlyon presided over
the small committee organising the
dinner-dance and mannequin parade of
furs at the Delphic on March 4. The
tickets sent out by Mrs. Leo" Curtis and
Mrs. Graham Nathan were novel, a
snow-white ermine tail being attached to
each. Proceeds go to the Opportunity
Clubs for Boys and Girls, of which
Eugene Gorman, Q.C., is president and
Mr. Justice Barry one of the patrons.
Verdi’s “The Masked Ball” at the Prin-
cess, presented by the National Theatre
Festival Opera Co. in co-operation with
the N.S.W. Opera Co., was a great suc-
cess. Producer John Dudley grouped the
dancers in the ballroom scene most artis-
tically, and the soft mauves and pinks
of their costumes were very pleasing.
William Constable’s settings are to be
commended. Why is it that every opera
must have an unhappy ending? Sorcery,
treachery and murder are the main in-
gredients of this one. Still, the music is
entrancing, and it gave Alan Ferris, as
Riccardo, Governor of Naples, and Alan
Light, as his secretary Renato, an oppor-
tunity to show off their excellent voices.
Jan Corin, wearing a lime-and-rose-shot
taffeta, and Jan Howell, in rust-toned
satin, were charmed with the opera’s
music. Other well-dressed members of the
first-night audience included Mrs. Dennis
Wright, in royal blue chiffon, Mrs. Philip
Dare, in a swathed short theatre-frock of
floral silk, Mrs. Ken Newton, in navy
taffeta with floating panels of sparkling
tulle. Mrs. H. Pacini wore ice-blue crepes
highlighted with contrasting roses grouped
on one shoulder, Mrs. Isobel Green’s
hyacinth-blue crepe gown was worn under
a coat of ruby velvet, Mrs. H. de Cres-
pigny chose floral satin. Dove-grey under
garnet-red velvet draperies was chosen by
Mrs. George Bassant, a silver mink stole
was worn by Lady Knox over her black
velvet gown, Mrs. Garnet Carroll chose
black velvet and long, tight-fitting sleeves
and high neckline, Lady Connelly wore
mist-blue crepe trimmed with silver beads.
Minna Shelley, over from Sydney for the
Arts Festival, wore black chiffon em-
broidered in gold ; mist-blue and black-
checked tie-silk fashioned Shirley Davies’s
frock, and Judy Newton wore sage-green
velvet.
Well-known woman pilot Mrs. Gertrude
McKenzie has set out to raise £lOOO as
foundation for a bursary fund to finance
the training of priests for the Jesuit
Mission at Bihar, India. This will honor
the late Father A. Power, former rector
of Corpus Christi, Werribee, where the
priests will be trained. Mrs. McKenzie
has formed an energetic committee com-
prising Mesdames Con Curtain, Norman
Lynch, Harold Alexander and F. H.
Edwards, Their first function was a
pleasant dinner-dance at 9 Darling-
street. Mrs. Curtain wore white broderie
anglaise, Mrs. Lynch black tulle, Phyl
Irvine off-white brocade, Lady Mayoress
Dwyer of South Melbourne black lace
glittering with sequins and Mrs. Les Cole-
man green-and-white-checked taffeta.
Of a high standard is John Alden’s
production at the Comedy of “The Merry
Wives of Windsor.” William Rees’s Fal-
staff was an especially fine portrait. In
the first-night audience were Mrs. Frank
Tait, in a ballerina frock of deep-mauve
taffeta; Mrs. John Casson, in floral silks of
autumn toning; Mrs, Alan Scott, whose
ballerina was of bronze-brown taffeta;
and Sheila Helpman, whose short dinner-
frock was of mist-blue French faille.
Jimmy Hanley, English star of “To
Dorothy, a Son,” was a Commando m
the last war, and served for four years.
His training is useful in the part he plays
as a harassed expectant father, for this
requires him to climb up and down 2U
steps 115 times during the play, which
means that by the final curtain he has
climbed more than 2000 feet. Rosemary
Miller as Dorothy is never seen, but con-
tinually heard, and pretty Babs McKinnon
is Myrtle, the star’s ex-wife. Dressing is
never formal at the Tivoli, but for the
first night there were many pretty gowns-
Outstanding was the short black
faille frock worn by Mrs. Constance
Day ; the deep cutaway neck was nlled-
in with folds of white organza and topped
with a mink stole. Mrs. Philip Dare s
frock glittered with turquoise
Mrs. Norman Lynch topped her black
frock with a picture-hat of emerald
feathers. Mrs. A. E. Haworth covered
her strapless lime-green faille frock wim
a matching coat. Contrast was lent
Mrs. Maurice Nathan’s short grey tatte
frock by a bright-pink velvet stole Mrs.
Nan Brewer’s draped frock was of■dov
grey faille. Mrs. David Martin and Mrs.
Fred Irvine were in black. ma / lD
blue taffeta was Pauline Gold’s frock.


N
Sure Starfs “
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTO.,44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
8X1.26
PERSONAL ITEMS
Robert Gumley Osborne, new chair-
man of the Australian Broadcasting Con-
trol Board, is Hobartian by birth and
lawyer and public-pursekeeper by choice.
Assistant Solicitor-General of Tasmania
when he shifted to the War Organisation
of Industry, he has been chairman of
Tasmania’s finance committee, chief par-
liamentary draftsman, registrar of the
National University in Canberra, and on
the Broadcasting Control Board since its
beginnings in 1949. Apart from public
finance and legal lore, his hobbies seem
to be public finance and legal lore. Forty-
eight. His new mate on the board
Robert Bruce Mair, knows a thing or
two about frequencies, oscillations and
such-like—one-time demonstrator at Mel-
bourne University’s engineering school,
and between 1944-48 supervisor of radio-
development in the P.M.G.’s department.
Since 1949 he’s been director of the
Broadcasting Board’s technical services.
Fifty-one, born at Armadale (Vic.).
Lawrence Bede Fanning, whose job
Osborne takes, succeeded Daniel McVey
as Director-General of Posts and Tele-
graphs in 1941. Fanning started in the
service in 1905 as a telephone attendant
in Sydney, and was connected with tele-
phone systems from then on, till he
shifted from wires to wireless in 1949.
111-health takes him into retirement.
Some men of the church have been
roped in by the Corns; but one of
the cloth in Sydney the other day made
no bones of his beliefs. “I hate
regimentation. We are individually re-
sponsible, individually capable, and
individually accountable.” Speaker was
Dr. Frank Rayward, at his installa-
tion as president of the Australian
Methodist Union. Born at Bowral
(N.S.W.), 60 years ago, the new president
obtained his Doctorate of Divinity in
Dallas, U.S.A., and since 1938 has been
superintendent of the Sydney Central
Methodist Mission. Much of his 36-
years’ service in the ministry has been
practical Christianity, working with social
services. He was the first secretary of
the Australian Council of Churches,
formed in 1941.
Viscount Alexander, K.G., G.C.8.,
G.C.M.G., C. 5.1., D.S.O. and M.C.,
added P.C. the other day.
As well as being an artillery specialist
and one of the first graduates from
Duntroon, Major-General Leslie Beavis
worked-in two periods with the Austra-
lian High Commissioner’s office in
London in his 30-odd years of soldiering ;
now he’s an H.C. himself, succeeding
John Oldham in Pakistan. D.S.O. and
twice “mentioned” in War I, Beavis had
the big job of Master-General of the
A.l.F.’s ordnance for the greater part of
War 11, competence in which brought
him his C.B.E. Retired from soldiering
in 1946, he’s since been giving his experi-
ence in an advisory capacity to the
Defence Department.
A Melbourne solicitor before he took
to career diplomacy in 1937, John Old-
ham was in London during War 11, assist-
ant to the Australian member of the
British War Cabinet. Afterwards assist-
ant to Lord Wright, chairman of the U.N.
War Crimes Commission, he journeyed
through France and Germany on war-
crime investigation. Further travels took
in the second U.N. Assembly in Paris,
and the third in New York, after which
he landed in Pakistan. St. Kilda-born,
he’s 49.
In the Jubilee novel-competition T. M.
Ronan’s Vision Splendid collared first
prize, Darcy Niland’s The Big Smoke
second, and Mrs. V. A. Dryvynsyde’s
Provoke the Silent Dust third. A some-
what shy Sydneysider who probes inde-
fatigably for his material, Niland is get-
ting a bit persistent in his prize-winning—
in the same series of competitions he took
both second and third prizes with his short
stories. The lady of the trio is a schoolie
who, born at Maryborough (Vic.), taught
in Ballarat and Melbourne before cross-
ing to Canada. There she runs a school
in her own home in Vancouver. Ronan’s
first book, Strangers on the Ophir, when
published by Dymock’s several years ago,
was not well received by local critics,
who, as usual, overlooked its story-telling
quality and promise. It’s really a good,
brisk yarn of cattle-duffers of the old
days, with plenty of action and some
excellent character-studies —and, to a
Bulletin man who first recommended it
for publication, Ronan’s new success
justifies that judgment.
In Stan Eastham, Perth City Club
(soccer) gets a former international half-
back and Olympic Games rep. for its
playing-coach. Having toured S. Africa
with a British Services team in 1935,
Eastham the following year represented
his country at the Berlin Games, and just
before the Martian games began came
to Australia with an English amateur
soccer side. Back home, he turned pro-
fessional and—attention, exiles —played
with such purse-fillers as Liverpool,
Exeter City, Stockport County and the
Cheshire League.
“Willpar”: It seems appropriate that
The Bulletin, as foremost fosterer of
the arts in Australia, should place on
record more fully the activities of one
who, prior to his recent death, also
fostered and loved the arts and the
English language. Father Thomas
Anthony Walsh, S.J. (B. 27/2/’52), was
one of our great orators. Few who heard
him during his 34 years of residence at
St. Mary’s, North Sydney, will forget
his brief, electrifying and often witty
sermons. He was the acknowledged
master of the art among the Catholic
clergy in Australia, lecturing annually to
a gathering of parish priests (highly-
trained men themselves) on the subject
of oratory. A past-president of the
Shakspeare Society of N.S.W., he was an
authority and lecturer on both Shak-
speare and the Gilbert and Sullivan
operas, and accepted numerous invita-
tions to talk on subjects musical and
literary from the Music Lovers’ Club,
the Better Speech Association and divers
other cultural bodies.
New Queensland manager of the
National Bank, Robert Roscoe,
accounted for by Gordon, joined the old
Q.N. Bank (wedded to the National in
BANKER.
1947) some 20 years ago. In that time
he got to know his State from north to
south as divisional-inspector and had a
term in Melbourne as assistant chief-
inspector. From Melbourne last year he
crossed to the U.S. and Canada, looking
in on banking practice in both countries.
Relaxes at bowls.
Believing that the best way to get to
know his new country was through its
law, Commander John Quere took on the
subject at Melbourne University on his
arrival four years ago. The other day he
graduated, becoming the first Dutchman
to do so from that institution. Previously
he’d been director of naval communica-
tions at The Hague.
Transplanted to London, taking on the
new post of Agricultural Councillor,
Frank Bulcock represented the Barcoo
in the Queensland Parliament for
23 years from 1919, the last 10 of
them State Minister for Agriculture.
Born at Mt, Arapiles (Vic.), he went from
Sydney Tech, to Wagga Experiment Farm
before heading north. What he learnt at
Wagga farm (which was a proving-
ground for Farrer’s wheat experiments)
stood to him in his Queensland job.
When the Federal Directorate of Agri-
culture was formed in 1942, Bulcock
went to Canberra as its chief. He’s been
abroad before on business agricultural—
leader of the Australian delegations to
U.N. sessions at Copenhagen and later
Geneva. He’ll get plenty of his favored
golf in England, but might find fishing
for agricultural machinery somewhat dif-
ferent from fishing the Queensland coast.
The cherubic smile on the face here
pictured by Prior could have its origin
in the fact that its owner is packing for
Home. Starting in a Welsh coalmine as
a lad of 12, Edward John Williams has
been Britain’s High Commissioner in Aus-
tralia for the past six years. He crammed
considerable experience in between both
jobs—solid knowledge of industrial re-
HIGH COMMISSIONER.
lationships as secretary of one of Britain’s
largest mining unions; political know-
how from Glamorganshire’s sending him
to Westminster in 1931, with re-election
in 1935 and 1945 ; and an insight into the
higher strata of government from hold-
ing several important posts under
Churchill and Attlee—the last being
Minister for Information. A nuggety,
genial 61, an easy mixer with a mine of
yarns about his early beginnings, the re-
tiring H.C. has two enthusiasms —a pride
in the British Parliamentary system and
the conduct of the Commons, and a belief
that the Old Country’s export trade will
pull her through. Sir Alexander Clutter-
buck, at present High Commissioner in
Canada, will take over in Canberra.
Died in Sydney, Reginald Vincent
Spier—“ Dad” to hosts of his friends,
especially his War I A.I.F. cobbers. Set-
ting out in working life from Sydney
University with a degree in mining-
engineering, he spent 10 years, mostly
underground, at Broken Hill at the time
when John Darling, Essington Lewis and
Delpratt were rising men. Thereafter
Spier got an idea he was meant to be a
doctor of medicine, returned to Sydney
Uni., and during three years of medical
studies became the unofficial guide,
philosopher and friend of fellow-students
much younger than himself; he became
“Dad” Spier to countless numbers of
fellow-citizens from that time. The
Kaiser’s war interrupted this second
university life, and he left Australia in
1915 for the 17th Battalion. In France
his capacity for administration caught the
late General Gellibrand’s eye; “Gelli”
took him on to his 12th Brigade staff,
from which he was later elevated to “Q”
staff on Australian Corps headquarters.
At the time of his death he was a senior
member of Sydney Stock Exchange.
Portrayed here by Lusby, Alexander
Burnett Hector is strong evidence for the
idea that a hobby keeps you young. At
86 he’s an enthusiast at his self-imposed
task of correlating all the sciences, and
in particular the improving of color-
music, of which he was the pioneer in
MUSICOLORIST.
Australia. Born in Aberdeen, he
graduated in chemistry at Edinburgh,
spent five years in Ceylon, and another
four in South Africa before coming here
in 1886 to found the Sydney branch of
the big chemical firm of
Wellcome; managing-director for 30
years. In 1908 he took out patents for
his color-music system; it now has
world-wide recognition. His Greenwich
(Sydney) home, a combined laboratory,
library and art gallery, includes a
theatrette in which he demonstrates the
beauty of sound translated into all the
colors from the deep red of the lowest
note to deep violet in the upper flights.
The Bulletin heard and approved his
first demonstration —at Palings’ 40 years
ago. There is now a Color Music Society,
a small, enthusiastic band of men and
women with a great faith in him and his
work.
J. S. Foxall takes a long shaft of
Westralian mining experience with him
into retirement. In the game since, in
1912, he moved west from Sydney to an
assistant-surveyorship at the Sons of
Gwalia mine, he rose through most levels
to become, in 1944, State Mining
Engineer and Chief Inspector of Mines
and Machinery. He was still in those
jobs when Father Time put him to
inspecting smaller holes, 18 at a time, on
Perth’s golf-links.
Into the Silence:
At Elstree (Hertfordshire), at 81, Sir Percy
Winn Everett, since 1941 Deputy Chief Scout
and since the beginning of the movement one
of its most zealous workers. He came to
Australia in 1936 for the Scout Corrobroree
held in Adelaide during the State’s centenary
celebrations.
In Sydney, at 57, William Allen Howell,
whose first job was farmhand and whose last
was chairman of the N.S.W. Milk Board. In
between he had been a railway-fireman, public-
service clerk, and, for eight years from 1941,
private-secretary to Premier McGirr.
In Launceston, at 98, James Chung Gon, who
came from Kwantung (S. China) at 18 to dig
gold at Bendigo, turned to tin in the Speck,
later went farming and became one of the
island’s largest vegetable producers. His
charitable bequests were as widely known as
his business. A family of 10, scattered from
Westralia to New Zealand, survive him.
In London, at 71, Sir Patrick Hastings, who
in five years from 1898 had tried mining-
engineering, soldiering and journalism before
finding his metier at the Bar. Later he took
on politics, rising to Attorney-General in
Ramsay MacDonald’s first Government in
1924. Having proved his competence in law
and politics he went back to writing, and deli-
vered four successful plays, one of which, “The
Blind Goddess,” was filmed in 1948.
At 71, L. S. Duncan, a S. Australian Labor
stanchion and Assembly member for Gawler
since 1938. For years secretary of the Parlia-
mentary Labor party, outside the House he
managed and edited a Gawler newspaper, and
for 15 years was secretary of the district’s
agricultural society.


LEURA
MAGNIFICENT
RESIDENCE
VACANT POSSESSION
Under Instructions from
Sir Alfred and Lady Davidson
"Montgreenan," Britain Street,
Without doubt the most beautiful property on the Blue Mountains.
The grounds are magnificently laid, and feature so many valuable
trees, ornamental shrubs, plants, sweeping lawns and leafy walks,
that only an inspection will afford proper appreciation of their
rare beauty.
Enjoying complete privacy, but quite handy to the station and
shopping centre, the residence is of white sandstone with rear
section of brick, cement-rendered in white, with green tiled roof,
and combines great charm, grace and dignity, to blend perfectly
with the garden setting.
A full size en tout cas tennis court, a fish pond and glass hot-house are also
provided, and on the domestic side, fruit trees, vegetable garden and fowl
run have not been overlooked.
Every convenience and amenity are available for residence and grounds,
and services and installations include central heating throughout, coke hot
water service, refrigeration, telephone, town water supplemented by
electrically pumped natural spring water from bore with underground tank
(approx. 18,000 galls.) providing complete independent supply, gas,
electricity, sewerage, water reticulation service throughout gardens.
Designed under the supervision of one 'of Sydney’s leading
architects, panoramic views extend over an arc of more than
180 degrees, and full advantage has been taken to capture these
by the provision of plate glass observation windows on all sides.
ACCOMMODATION: Front entrance porch with enclosed sun verandah,
entrance hall, octagonal loungeroom (approx. 23 ft. x 21ft.), diningroom
(24ft. x 12ft. 9in.), study (24ft. 6in. x 14ft. 3in.), main bedroom (22ft. 6in. x
15ft. 9in.), with private tiled bathroom and toilet and dressing room off,
three (3) other bedrooms, two (2) more tiled bathrooms, tiled shower room,
all with toilets, flower room, pantry, servery, tiled kitchen all with stainless
steel sinks, ample cupboards, etc., scullery, drying room with gas heater and
fan, staff toilet, etc. On the western side of the building is a further all-
weather entrance from private drive-way and on the north-east corner is a
spacious covered sun verandah. There are numerous telephone and power
points throughout the building and telephone will be transferred with consent
of the P.M.G.
Detached is a three-car garage with tool and work room, man’s room and
laundry. Adjacent is a detached comfortable staff cottage of four (4) rooms,
bathroom, kitchen and laundry, with verandah and gardener’s office, boiler
rooms, workshop, wine-bins, etc.
THE WHOLE PROPERTY IS IN PERFECT ORDER.
Wall-to-wall carpets, curtains and Venetian blinds and all garden tools, plant
and accessories will be available to the successful purchaser.
Area approx. 2\ acres. TITLE: Torrens.
Full details are obtainable from the AUCTIONEERS or CONJUNCTION
AGENT, and an illustrated brochure will be FORWARDED ON
APPLICATION.
Inspection by appointment only through conjunction agent or
auctioneers.
Solicitors: ICETON. FAITHFULL & BALDOCK.
Auction Sale Date:
Tuesday, 18th March. 1952.
Auctioneers in conjunction:
L. J. HOOKER LIMITED
98 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Tel. BWB4OI (10 lines).
H. S. HELTON, ESQ.
The Mall, LEURA.
Tel. Leura Jl2ll.
Make Your Own Leather
Strong, Pliable, Durable
Also Tan Fur Skins and Tan
and Dye Woolskins
Send six stamps for samples and
particulars
BENJAMIN A. PHELPS,
Petone, N.Z.
For Sale.
IRRIGATED DAIRY-
AGRICULTURE.
1979 acs. rich black and chocolate soil'
750 acs. suitable cultivation; 106 acs
cleared for plough; 10 acs. lucerne; lan»
suitable milo, maize, etc. 1500 acs. well
grassed, 30 h.p. diesel irrigation plant.
John Deere Model B tractor. 100 head
high-grade Ilia, cattle; good diesel milk-
ing plant; 5 breeding sows. Good
House, 8 rooms, 32v. electricity. Second
dwelling. 2 Hay sheds. Ideal for dairy-
ing, agriculture or fattening, 22m. Rock-
hampton. £15,500. Vendor will sell part
without stock.
FARM EXCHANGE,
19 Denham St., Rockhampton, Queensland.
’Phone 3768, after hours 3199, 2161.
NOW you con
CASTRATE
& TAIL
SO/fJtsmt with the
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
AUTOMATIC
RING LOADER
(PATT.ARP. No. 315231 /49)
for use with Elastrator instrument and Elastrator ringf.
Castration and Tailing the Elastrator way is already famous
for its efficiency. Now it is quicker, even cleaner than before.
Order your Elastrator Automatic Ring Loader now from your
usual Elastrator supplier.
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Stock and Station Agents,
Chemists and Stores.
TOT
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Tick-eradication.
“Oxo”: After more than 50
years’ experience with beef-cattle
and ticks in Queensland,
E. E. D. White, Woodlands,
Greenmount, contends that
eradication is the only answer to
ticks. Queensland today, he says,
has probably about half the
beef-cattle she had nearly 60
years ago, and although a lot of
the land running beef-cattle in
those days has been turned to
sheep-raising, dairying and
farming, millions of pounds have
been spent on water and other
improvements and this should,
in some measure, have offset the
area lost to beef.
In the early ’90’s the Upper
Burdekin had teeming herds of
big, healthy, good-constitutioned
cattle, and apparently there was
no need then to mention the
Zebu. In the middle ’90’s the
tick arrived, with the death-
dealing red-water parasite, and
in a short time 60 per cent, of
those herds were wiped out.
Because of this blood-sucking
tick, those runs even today have,
on the average, only about half
their original carrying capacity.
It is unfortunate, he holds,
that few present-day owners and
managers remember the time
when the land was free of ticks,
and have come to accept the
pest as something inseparable
from their business, and to
be . dumbly endured. Dipping to
rnipimise the effects of tick
worry, he added, is practised on
most runs a * great cost and un-
ending work-wearing to both
man and beast,
He had been told that eradica-
tion was impossible, but he
wondered if it had been seriously
tried. The U.S.A. had tackled
the job successfully, except for
one State—Florida—while the
King Ranch in Texas cleaned up
its 100,000 cattle in eight months
by fortnightly dippings, and
had been free of the tick since
about 1930.
When he returned to Queens-
tend from a visit to Texas in
1931, the Tick Board was not
interested in what he had to
say regarding the eradication of
ticks, and he was shown a map
to illustrate the great work the
board had accomplished,
A different view is given by
the representative of a com-
mercial firm interested in
tickicides who recently con-
ferred with officials responsible
for tick eradication in U.S.A. He
contends that climatic differences
make it extremely unlikely that
methods by which the tick was
eradicated in parts of the U.S.A.,
notably Texas, would produce
similar results in Queensland,
Parts of the U.S.A. where the
tick had been cleaned up cer-
tainly had a summer tempera-
ture comparable with Queens-
land, but in winter the roads
were coated with ice. The low
winter temperature might have
contributed to the successful
results. If a capable Australian
investigator were sent to
America to examine their
eradication methods, it should,
he said, be possible to adapt
them to Queensland conditions,
but implementation of a com-
plete eradication scheme would
cost millions.
Feeding Poultry.
“Myrr”; In feeding trials with
laying hens at the State Re-
search Farm, Werribee (Vic.),
most successful rations have
been mash, either wet or dry, in
the morning, greenstuff at noon
and mixed grain in the after-
noon.
Each bird gets 2oz. of mash,
loz. of greenstuff and 2oz. of
grain a day. The mashes con-
tain 10 p.c. of meatmeal and at
least 60 p.c. of pollard or finely-
ground grain. The remainder of
the mash is made up with bran
to prevent it becoming “pasty.”
At Werribee newly-hatched
chicks are started on cracked
grain and then put on to a mash
containing ground mixed grain
and 10 p.c. dried buttermilk or
5 p.c. dried buttermilk and 5 p.c.
meatmeal with greenstuff and
cracked grain until they are four
months old. After that they are
fed rations similar to the layers.
See that shellgrit is always
available to make up for the
deficiency of lime in the con-
centrates and for shell forma-
tion. If possible give growing
birds a run on fresh ground.
Santa Gertrudis.
“Outback”: Queensland may
have a big Santa Gertrudis stud.
Negotiations are said to be in an
advanced stage for the purchase
of a highly-improved Darling
Downs Hereford stud property
by a syndicate which proposes
to breed purebred Santa Ger-
trudis cattle. The syndicate com-
prises Sir Rupert Clarke (Mel-
bourne), P. Baillieu (Melbourne)
and R. Kleberg, who owns the
King Ranch, Texas (U.S.A.),
home of the Santa Gertrudis.
It is proposed to bring out 300
Santa Gertrudis —250 heifers
and 50 bulls —and about half
the bulls and all the heifers will
be used in an intensive stud-
breeding project on the Downs.
It is understood that the syndi-
cate has chartered a ship to bring
the King Ranch cattle to Aus-
tralia, and that the syndicate
now awaits only Federal Gov-
ernment approval to import
them.
The Gyppo Way.
“Ceg”: Incubation of
chickens in Egypt is a most con-
servative profession. The prac-
titioners come, in the main, from
a village in lower Egypt called
Birma.
In the season they would set
off to the different villages in the
Nile valley and oases. First job
was to build a low mud hut on
the outskirts of the village where
they were to operate, and line
the walls with clay shelves to
carry the eggs. In the centre of
the hut a circular trough was
filled with tibn (a sort of chaff)
which was fired to generate the
heat. The huts would hold many
thousands of eggs.
A charge of so much a
hundred was made, and the man
in charge would live and sleep
in the hut for the whole period.
Testing was done by placing the
eggs against his eyeball. (Try
taking your temperature that
way when there is no ther-
mometer hand!) Towards the
end of the period the heat
generated by the eggs themselves
sufficed to finish the job and the
fire was allowed to go out.
Results were about 90 per cent,
successful.
Pulpy Kidney.
“A-Jay”: Where it occurs in
lambs under six weeks of age it
can be reduced by vaccinating
the ewes before lambing.
If the ewes have never been
vaccinated before give them two
doses of vaccine at least a
month apart. Ewes vaccinated
last year will require only one
dose. The final vaccination
should be given about a fort-
night before lambing. Very poor
immunity results when ewes are
vaccinated much earlier.
If most of the losses from
pulpy kidney occur in lambs
over six weeks of age vaccina-
tion of ewes is of no value, but
vaccination of lambs at marking
may help.
Excluders or Not.
“S.”: Years ago excluders be-
came popular among bee-herders
who favored a small brood-nest.
They held that as it takes
a frame of honey to make a
frame of brood it naturally fol-
lows that the smaller the brood-
nest the greater the extraction.
To a certain extent this is so.
The ’herder who never gets
round to improving his stock
and who farms black “runners”
finds too often that three decks
of his four-deck hive have been
given over to brood-rearing. So
the idea of excluders caught on.
In U.S.A. —land of ex-
tremists—they took the idea still
further and replaced brood-
combs with wooden dummies
under the excluders. When the
supers ceased to run honey, they
concluded that flowers no
longer yielded any quantity of
honey—until they looked in the
hives of the anti-contractionists.
Having more time to think
here, the bee-herders didn’t get
as far as dummying the brood-
nest, but excluders were taken
for granted. Later they lost
favor. The theorists held that the
more bees the more honey, and
gave the queen access to the
entire hive. Today this is the
most common trend of bee-
culture. If —and this is im-
portant—the right kind of bee
is farmed, the bees themselves
govern the number of frames
given over to brood-rearing
merely by forcing the queen
down to the bottom box with
the weight of honey gathered.
The bees are more contented and
less swarming is likely where the
queen can lay at will.
Beemen now swinging back to
excluders contend that,
properly worked, a brood-nest of
10 combs is sufficient to keep a
colony in gathering heart the
entire season. Properly worked
means not allowing the nest to
be choked out with pollen or so
full of sealed brood the queen
has to fill in time loafing about
until emergence clears the deck
and/or the urge to swarm sets
in.
Little difficulty is experienced
once the full flush of the early
heavy brooding is over and the
colony establishes a big force
of field-workers. There are two
more important advantages. Loss
of valuable queens, caused by
unskilled help blundering its
way through the hives at extract-
ing-time, ceases, and secondly,
if honey is transported to a
central extracting-point, gas can
be used, the two or three bodies
can be lifted above the excluder
and taken away without fear of
losing the queen or chilling the
brood —two factors which are
always present % when excluders
are not used.
The argument is a fairly
evenly-balanced one, but it’s
significant that men who know
the game are swinging back to
use of the excluder.
Healthy Apple-trees.
“Rooster”: Assuming that soil
texture, drainage and general
condition of the apple-trees
are satisfactory, each tree de-
mands three main foods:
nitrogen, phosphorus and potas-
sium. In every 10001 b. of apples
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
During March there should be further fairly good rains
along the east coast, but nothing outstanding unless there is
some strong sunspot outbreak. This is not very likely, as
the sun is rather weak. There is, however, a group late in
March in one cycle, with a strong group early in April in
another, and a sudden sunspot urge might bring them
together at either time.
In Queensland moderate rains generally will maintain
the present relief, which was a striking example of
Immediate sunspot effect. I am asking other observatories
to combine in investigating this, as 1 find it a wonderful
adjunct to short-range forecasting.
Along the southern littoral March does not show much
rain of any importance, except a slight tendency in south-
west West Australia, with some possible heavy rains in the
Far North, the Tropics generally and North Queensland.


fa
“Phenovis" Worm Remedy
t
\
W.
G
/S/'
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ẅ
PHE.BX.BO
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
Oti- €a£- 0L
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes, your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
tmmi
n
m
..... : • .;■
...
sV-6^fesSS
ft
%
»¥:;:>
mM
MS®??; ••>;* :>;. . . ;■
v - * '
>. * :' >
<•<<*
*«<>*
***?
mg:
s
SIGNS TO REMEMBER
Published in the interests of Hoad Safety by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
For Product Quality and
Super Service . . . Buy Where
You See This Sign
INDEPENDENT
w
there are approximately 1.051 b.
of nitrogen, 0.141 b. of phos-
phorus and 1.401 b. of potassium.
Obviously nitrogen and potas-
sium are the most important.
Nitrogen should never be
undersupplied; oversupply is
indicated by excessive growth
and lack of fruit-bud. Sulphur,
magnesium, manganese, iron and
calcium are the necessary trace
elements, almost as important
as the major minerals.
All through the growing-
season carbohydrates in the form
of sugars must be well in excess
of the demands of the growing
tree in order to build up
adequate reserves. Nitrogen is
a bulk constituent of air to the
extent of 78 per cent., but trees
cannot utilise it from the atmos-
phere, as they use carbon-
dioxide gas. Nitrogen does
occur as a waterborne manure,
being present to some extent in
rain, and being freed by light-
ning discharges, but in limited,
insufficient quantities.
Both bacteria and fungi col-
lect, use and pass on atmos-
pheric nitrogen in a form
assimilable by the tree. The
little nodules on the roots of
lupins, clover, peas and other
plants are indications of this
nitrogen-fixing activity. When
such crops are grown in an
orchard and are ploughed in it
provides an ideal nitrogenous
food for plants, and good crops
are assured.
Testing the Soil.
“Agro”: Before sending a
sample of soil to a Department
of Agriculture for analysis
(B. 13/2/’52), find out whether
the department wants to do
the job. Chemical analysis
of the soil to determine
what minerals are lacking, with
the view of recommending
fertiliser-treatment to correct the
apparent deficiency, sounds all
right to the layman, and would
have appealed to Departments of
Agriculture a generation ago,
but it was given up about then,
at least in N.S.W.
The reason is that extraction
of soil nutrients with strong, hot
hydrochloric acid in the chemical
laboratory is an altogether false
guide as to the nutrients which
are available to the plant, or
which should be applied in
fertiliser to obtain the best
results.
This point will be appreciated
when it is realised that
the poorest soil will show the
lowest content of plant-food
material, and will demand the
highest application of fertiliser
on that basis, but will not by any
means give the best results with
such application, even if the
farmer on such land could
afford to make the outlay for it.
In regard to “trace” elements,
the situation is far worse, for the
soil-chemist is quite unable to
determine quantities differing by
a few parts per million. The
only means of properly deter-
mining any lack of either major
or minor plant-food elements in
the soil, and of economically
remedying it, is by field tests
with crops and pastures, and
sometimes with stock, on the
soil itself, or on soils of similar
typo.
Finally, insects which trans-
mit virus diseases and organisms
which cause fungus diseases are
no respecters of plants, even
when the plants are fully pro-
vided with both major and
minor elements of plant food.
The new farmer will not last
long if he puts his faith entirely
in good nourishment for his
crops to keep insects and plant
diseases at bay. In fact, some
of these pests thrive better on
good fare.
Seed Wheat.
“Mr.”: Vic. Department of
Agriculture has seed-wheat and
invites Vic. growers to place
orders with Dookie College,
Dookie, for Quadrat and
Diadem, and with Longerenong
College, Dooen, for Pinnacle,
Quadrat, Insignia, Diadem and
Magnet. Name your railway
station, but don’t send payment
with the order. It costs 15s. a
bushel f.o.r. sending station.
The department recommends
Pinnacle for the Wimmera and
Northern Districts and Insignia
for the Mallee.
Hints for the Farm.
“Springvale”: When tomatoes
are fruiting water them more
often, A weekly application of
liquid-manure means larger and
better fruit, and they’ll mature
quicker. Early crops are best
picked when evenly colored, but
before they are fully ripe ; if left
too long on the plant later
trusses will be delayed,
“Sundowner”: Try painting
the inside of cowsheds blue, a
color repellent to flies.
“Hortus”: If the garden top-
soil is fairly shallow go in for
bed-trenching. Dig down one
spade- or fork-depth and carry
soil to the other end of the bed.
Then put in a layer of weeds,
leaves or other rubbish and
cover this up with the topsoil
just behind in the next row.
Continue this until you reach the
end of the bed, where you have
awaiting you the soil deposited
in a heap earlier. So all the soil
has been shifted. If your
garden has good depth of top-
soil you go two spade-depths
and put weeds, etc., between the
two layers. In this way the
garden gets a good aeration as
well as a good manuring.
“Saffron”: Safflower is closely
related to the saffron thistle, but
has a much larger seed. It is
unlikely to become a weed
menace. It is true (B. 20/2/’52)
that safflower will succeed under
a wider range of climatic con-
ditions than linseed, but the
obstacle is that so far local oil
processors are not interested,
though its production and use
are expanding rapidly in U.S.A.
“Billjim”: Best way to beat
fowl-tick is in the sheds. Spray
them with kero.-emulsion, sump-
oil, D.D.T. or B.H.C. Do the
spraying three times at five-day
intervals.


Gillette
I
=8
<SS9
o^3
10/162
To commemorate their Golden Jubilee,
Gillette present the Anniversary Set —the
very latest development of the Gillette
Shaving System. Get one to-day and
enjoy the fastest, smoothest shaves
that any money can buy.
ntaining the famous
Gillette
*
piece
ne
Razor
Dispenser
r aS
Iholdin
Gillette
the
Blades)
Km"
-••tfrir 1 T ""
, b i a ,rs ready for
ŵ
Separate 20-blade Dispensers are available at 9/-
“Good Mornings” begin with Gillette
Divorce Notice.
TO FRANCIS MORE CLBBLAND form-
erly of Launching Place Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife DOROTHY MAY
CLEELAND has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of continuous .five years’ separation
If you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within forty clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the case may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED this
15th day of February, 1952. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. H. T. STABLES,
Solicitor, 37 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Agent for STABLES & CLARKSON, Kal-
goorlie, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
ff i 9 ll never forget the jog on
Aunt Margaret 9 s face when she heard
the rain beating on the window 99
“It’s a warm, comforting
sound, that most of us take
for granted. But Aunt Mar-
garet had been hard-of-
hearing for so long, she was
discovering the beauty of
those faintly - remembered
sounds all over again.”
The wonderful “Acousti-
con” has brought back the
joys of hearing to so many
grateful people. If there’s
someone in your family
hard-of-hearing, why not
write for an “Acousticon”
booklet which tells all about
this modern wonder.
Then, should they wish,
they can try the “Acousti-
con” for themselves in
ANGUS & COOTE’S consult-
ing rooms, in absolute
privacy. Or we will send a
consultant to your home.
The famous
"ACOUSTICON" HEARING AID
Write to-day for the booklet that tells you
all about this modern wonder.
Obtainable only from
us & Coote
500 George St.. SYDNEY; 62 Scott St., NEWCASTLE
203 Collins St., MELBOURNE; 626 Sturt St., BALLARAT
175 North Terrace, ADELAIDE; 134 Elizabeth St., BRISBANE
76 Harrington St., HOBART
41 Brisbane St., LAUNCESTON; 254 Murray St., PERTH
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“An America-wide public-opinion
survey shows that wives wear the
pants in the modern family.”
And they show scanty respect
for their husbands.
-V
“Every woman’s face should give a
lovely preview of herself.”
—Beauty note.
Particularly for her first
knight.
“I am tired of being a blonde, and
would like to be a brunette again.”
—Correspondent in women’s maga-
zine.
She had a fair trial, anyway.
4* 4 1 4 1
“The run-out batsman scored only
46, although he had batted 135
minuets.” — Sydney "Sun.”
His footwork, however, was
unusually graceful.
4 1 4 1 4*
“What should I do when I’m cook-
ing if fat catches fire?”
—Correspondent in women’s paper.
Keep well out of range,
-I* -h
“Choose a soft, becoming hairstyle
rather than a startling one.”
—Beauty article.
Then you won’t make yourself
a fright.
•b 4* 4*
“Baby-sitting courses have been
introduced into the senior classes of
some U.S. schools.”
The syllabus is constantly
changing.
Skeleton at the Feast.
From where the shouting tide
cavorts and roisters,
From where the seaweed-
curtains surge and droop,
All, all are gone, the old familiar
Oysters ;
Their melancholy relics haunt
my soup.
The awful sorrow of a martyred
Bean
Lurks in my coffee-cup’s un-
happy dregs ;
About the roasted Rooster cling,
unseen,
The mournful ghosts of count-
less orphaned Eggs.
The yeoman Sausage-roll, in his
buff jerkin,
Lies here. Hie jacet Crab and
Cray, and tall
Cheese-straw, and dainty Leek,
and Squab, and Gherkin —
And vengeful nightmares
hover round them all.
To eat! Perchance to dream —
ay, there’s the problem ;
Shall viands frighten me —or
shall I gobble ’em ?
NEIL MILLAR.
No-hoper.
My father, in his wisdom.
Told me always to be good;
My father, in his wisdom,
A lso told me why I should:
But I, lacking any wisdom.
Never damn well could
Be good.
He understood.
WHITT.
Diary of a Bottle of Beer
that Tells.
Monday : Realised I was
going to be taken for a ride as
soon as they put my cap on.
Boy, did I have a head! That’s
what comes of getting as full as
a goog. Had a small oval paper-
pinny slapped on my bingy,
and then I was put into a com-
partmented container with a
couple of dozen of my fellows.
Amazed how much alike we
looked—like a lot of Chows in
a police line-up. Anyway, I was
glad when we were put aboard
a big shiny truck and moved out
the gate. I’d “had” the brewery
—a sentiment, I believe, that
isn’t exclusively confined to us
bottles.
After being unmercifully
bumped about the streets
in this burg seem to consist of
innumerable potholes held to-
gether by odd bits of macadam
—we cast up outside a pub. The
legend above the door pro-
claimed that the gintleman
licenced to retail fermented and
“Let's wait and watch him turn the corner."
spirituous liquors bore the proud
title of Michael Patrick
O’Shillelegh, but if the greasy-
looking individual who signed
for us knew as much about
Hibernian peat-bogs as he did
about Assyrian ghettoes I’d have
chewed my collar.
Tuesday: We had just got
settled down to a nice quiet
night’s rest in the pitch-black
Hole of Calcutta somewhere
under the pub when the light
was switched on as two men
came in. One was the phony
Irisher, the other was someone
called Harry. One of the
shrewd-head bottles told me
afterwards that he’d been born
just plain Harry—apparently his
old man never had a surname.
Harry was carrying a big
bundle of sugar-bags, and he
began pushing a lot. of us into
them. I felt a bit flattered when I
caught the murmured informa-
tion that my value had shot up
two hundred per cent. —in less
than a day, at that; I doubt
even if the vegetable racketeers
could do as well. But I felt a
bit humiliated at coming down
for transport to a common
sugar-bag and an old truck. The
Levantine - Hibernian was very
particular about turning all the
lights out before Harry started
taking us out —perhaps he
thought the strong light might
curdle our insides or something.
Our nocturnal perambulation
would have been a cheering sight
for the mug drinkers who have
to do an umbilical crawl to get
one bottle a week out of
M.P.O’S. An even worse ride
in tile surnameless one’s old
truck. One of the bottles, a
real innocent, opined that he
must have been hurrying to get
rid of us in case he got pinched.
Didn’t that raise a horselaugh
among the rest of us! Shortly
afterwards we stopped at the
back door of Ike Bazooka’s
Indian Club and we all went in.
Wednesday; I’ve never seen
so many bottles in my life, and
I saw a fair swag while I was at
the brewery. We were stacked
right up to the ceiling. We could
hear a lot of boozy row going on
up above, and occasionally an
angry bellow, obviously from
some half-shot mug who’d just
been handed his bill. Then
there’d be a sudden silence —we
guessed Ike’s strong-arm men
were on the job then.
The shearing went on till about
3 a.m. „ The innocent bottle
who’d spoken before expressed
wonderment that Ike didn’t get
his liquor licence taken away,
what with the drunken brawls
that went on. That did raise
a roar. Ike’s been sly-
grogging at his flash hash-
foundry for 10 years, and he
never loses more than eight
hours’ sleep a night worrying
because he has never bothered
to apply for that slip of paper.
Ike, who looks like a baboon
in a boiled shirt, handed over to
Harry a wad of notes so thick
that old Jack Rice would have
boggled at trying to hurdle it.
Thursday; Ike came in to-
day and looked us all over. He
had two books, in each of which
he began entering figures. Good
old Ike! One for hiis own use
and one to show the Taxation
mob. In the afternoon half our
strength were whisked away.
Heard afterwards on the bottle
grapevine they were parked in
a garage owned by one of Ike’s
directors. Another Hibernian
named Luigi something. The
only thing anyone has ever seen
him direct is the stacking of
bottles in various caches, just in
case.
Friday; Made my debut to-
night. Was taken to a table
where a couple of vacuous-
looking humans sat waiting to
be shorn. The waiter whisked
my cap off. I fizzed a bit at that
—as if I didn’t know it was the
polite thing to do. What struck
me then was the horribly-bored
look on everyone. The pocket-
handkerchief dance-floor was
crowded with people listlessly
shuffling backwards and for-
wards their allotted 4in., the
men obviously wondering when
the hell the “music” was going
to stop. A bunch of bookies
with set-jelly physiques were de-
sultorily playing “sudden-
death” at a near-by table for
fivers. A well-nourished bottle-
blonde was talking fast at a
rachitic octogenarian captain of
industry, who was nobly sup-
pressing a lot of yawns. You
could have cut the air into thick
slices. Dinkum, I was glad when
I was at last poured out. I’ve
heard that two swallows don’t
make a summer, but I’ll bet the
five or six swallows each that
I provided made the dead winter
of that goon’s discontent,
especially as he was socked
seven bob for it. Seven bob!
Four times what I’d cost
originally! I nearly did a back-
somersault when I caught sight
of the bill. It’s things like this
that make any bottle of beer
bitter.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Telephone, Please
My brother and I run a foundry, and
about five years ago we shifted our busi-
ness from one suburb to another in
accordance with the regulations govern-
ing heavy industry in the Greater Sydney
plan. ' '
We immediately made application for
a telephone, but were told that, because
of the overloaded condition of the
exchange in our locality, there would be
no likelihood of getting one for some
time.
Being reasonable men, we accepted the
situation and carried on our business as
best we could. In the past 12 months,
however, there has been great industrial
expansion in our area, several other firms
having established works similar to ours
and close to us. We were amazed to
find that these firms have had telephones
installed.
Inquiries revealed that the P.M.G. had
decided that our work was not of a
sufficiently high priority to warrant a
phone. Following up, we asked what
constituted a priority, and were told by
a clerk in monotonous stereotyped chant
that our case had been examined by the
investigating officers—whom we have
never met—-and that their decision was
final.
We are still trying to get a phone, but
have found that any attempt to persuade
a Government department to revise a
decision is like bouncing ybur head
against a rubber wall.
We are, incidentally, the largest
employers of labor of the firms con-
cerned ; we are the largest suppliers of
grey-iron fittings to the State Electricity
Commission’s powerhouses at Bunnerong
and Pyrmont; and we have been in busi-
ness in this area from three to four years
longer than any other firm.
The greater part of our work is break-
down work, often, necessitating the
supplying of a fitting within 24 hours’
notice for boilers that have broken down
at Pyrmont and Bunnerong powerhouses.
—C. T. R. (N.S.W.).
Arbitration and Wages
So the Arbitration Court and the
governor of the Commonwealth Bank
are blaming employers for boosting
wages by bidding against one another for
scarce labor (B. 19/12/*5l).
As one who is forced to pay 40 per
cent, above award wages, and who got. no
response to an ad. for men at award
rates, plus a bonus, I contend the real
culprits are the Arbitration Courts,
boards or commissions and most of the
Government and semi - Government
undertakings. Members of those bodies
have not the practical knowledge of
manual labor or business required in
making detailed awards, and the general
results are chaotic.
In Queensland an ordinary miner gets
about £lO, a railway-bridge painter £l4,
plus usual railway allowances, a lead-
miner £25, a shearing-shed hand £l5 and
a shearer about £4O a week.
The late C. G. Fallon, former head
of the A.W.U. and its chief industrial
advocate, has been reported as saying
before a shearers’-award hearing: “I can
think of a far better case against us than
for us.” But he still won a higher award-
rate. Again, he said: “It would pay the
employers to organise their industrial-
court advocacy better and pay the head
of the organisation £lO,OOO a year. They
would show something like £lOO,OOO a
year in savings on present results.”
The foregoing applies mainly to pri-
vate employment. The position is much
worse with Government and semi-Gov.-
ernment employment awards. Here
arbitration resembles a game of bridge
in which public interest always has the
dummy hand and its partner, when not
actively or passively- supporting extra
demands on its purse, is, at best, and
particularly under “Labor” Govern-
ments, mostly indifferent.
Sometimes award provisions have not
“Don't splash so much — you're frightening the fish!"
been taken to the Arbitration Court but
agreements filed with it, in some cases'
containing provisions which have been
flatly refused by the court and which
have caused repercussions in other
awards. It all boils down to the fact that
Government and semi - Government
undertakings are voracious in drawing
employees from balanced, productive
private employment, and the private
employer has to fight back.—B. R. (Q.).
Cost-plus
Cost-plus in the building game seems
to be on the way out at last. This system,
which sometimes masquerades under the
sobriquet of “fixed fee,” has much to
answer for.
It is in relation to management that
most harm has been done, particularly
field-management, where those in direct
control of materials and labor develop a
carelessness that has proved costly.
Contrary to the common view, it is not
only money that has been wasted. In
all types of cost - plus the price is
always high in terms of money, but
shrinks into insignificance beside the
incalculable loss of drive in management,
efficiency in labor and enthusiasm in
tradesmen, — Cassio (Vic.).
Waterfront Employment
If, as “G.M.” states (B. 21/11/’5l), the
roster system was introduced on the
Sydney waterfront by the Federal Gov-
ernment as a war-time measure, how
about the present Federal Government
removing it as a peace-time measure?
In the roster system, as operated by
the Waterside Workers’ Federation, labor
is picked up in gangs, usually- of eight
men. As anyone familiar with waterside
work well knows, the work done by a
gang of eight .could easily be done by
six men (in the old days it was done by
tour) Thus there is always room for a
couple of “passengers” in a gang.
In other unions employed on the
waterfront such as Painters and
Dockers’, Storemen and Packers’, Tally
Clerks’ (Federated Clerks’ Union)—men
are picked up by the roster system indi-
vidually, each to do a specific job, and
all, under the roster system, are claimed
by the unions to be equally competent
and all are paid at the same rate. The
consequence is. that the standard of work
inevitably tends to fall to the pace and
quahty of that done by the laziest and
least competent men on the particular
l ob ; 5 5
“G.M.’s” contention that, under the
voluntary system, labor would not be
obtained for obnoxious cargoes is not
borne out in actual practice. “Dirt
money” is paid for cargoes classified as
obnoxious, and many men seek that type
of work for the extra money. Such
cargoes are worked under the voluntary
system in most ports of the world. —
Selimat (Siam).
Food Production
In the panic about food shortages one
considerable cause has been overlooked.
Farmers, especially in fruit and vege-
tables, are catching the idea from other
sections of industry that underproduction
is a powerful lever with which to keep
prices high and to reduce labor and
handling. If 20 tons under shortage
conditions will return as much as 40 tons
under plenty, why waste exertion on the
extra 20 tons?—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Land Settlement
Land-settlement policy in Australia —
particularly in N. S. Wales and Victoria,
where existing properties are being split
up—is not in keeping with modern
overseas trends.
In America, for instance, figures just
released show that the average farm
acreage from 1900-04 was 146 acres, from
1935-39 it had risen to 164 acres and
from 1945-49 to 203 acres. The actual
number of farms dropped from 6.8
million in 1935 to 5.3 million in 1950,
and yet American agricultural production
has never been higher than in post-war
years.
One effect of the Australian policy of
splitting productive grazing land into
small areas will almost certainly be a
decline in the production, and perhaps
quality, of our finer wools. In nearly
every case where a property running
Merinos is subdivided, the new settlers
turn to the raising of fat lambs and
coarser wools as a sideline to cropping,
while those who do run small Merino
flocks can seldom afford to buy top-
quality rams.
In some States, notably S.A. and
Tasmania, Governments are very wisely
opening up virgin or poor country for
improvement and settlement, and inter-
fering as little as possible with land
already in satisfactory production.
Similarly, in New Zealand soldier-
settlement has been carried out on
improved land previously unproductive,
and in the process of improving it and
stocking it the Maoriland Government
has made a tidy profit of £2 million.
The Tasmanian Government’s enter-
prise in preparing King Island for settle-
ment, and generously inviting qualified
mainlanders to participate, is an example
that could well be followed by other
States.
In N. S. Wales the process of soldier-
settlement has been slow, and has been
carried out largely at the expense of land-
owners whose properties were resumed
unjustly on a 1942 assessment, a tithe of
their actual value at the time of
acquisition.
Now, a Sydney newspaper is campaign-
ing to have farmers brought from abroad
and settled on fhe land, overlooking the
fact that there are still tens of thousands
of qualified ex-servicemen who have been
waiting in vain for blocks since the war
ended.
No doubt much of Australia is destined
to remain unproductive. But land-
experienced soldiers who passed through
the far-northern tablelands of Queens-
land during the war can testify to that
area’s suitability for settlement.
The problem of declining food-pro-
duction can certainly be solved, or
partially solved, by settling more people
on the land, but not on land that is
already producing. The time has come
when the land-hungry of the southern
States must be prepared to move north-
wards. Properly encouraged, many
would. — Dick Turpin (N-S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 163
Across.
I—Food dog of the East. (4)
3—Bird repository of the French
tongue. (9)
9 —Find once again that a fieldsman
is blushing. (10)
11 —Ingredient of music money. (4)
13— Merited a loan sought by Mark
Antony Kelly. (6)
14 — Noise had changed this “sticker”
publicity before he is Idriess. (8)
15— Ray is disturbed here. (5)
16— Obstructed picnic equipment with
the editor. (8)
20—Orchard takes the park inspector
to heart. (8)
22 —Fierce drink in a township on
N.S.W.’s South Coast., (5)
25 — N.R.M.A. journal often men-
tioned by John Charles Thomas
in Frank Street. (4, 4)
26 — Firm, cricket score by a Spanish
city. (6)
28—Sue a disorderly personage
cheated of his inheritance. (4)
30 — Sheila steers one-time Brownies.
(4, 6)
31 — Bird portion on a line of hills.
(9)
32—Weapon is not without risk for
little Miss Lavransdatter. (4)
Down.
1— Bird offers an uncomplimentary
description of the Wallace who
wrote “Ben Hur.” (6)
2 Neat aide. (7)
3 Castle bird doesn’t give a fair
deal. (4)
4 Deface. (3)
5 Vessel allows you to join the
British fleet. (3)
7 Seating pronouns with a mark of
wedlock. (8)
8 — How the dumb signify assent
when French drinks are wanted.
(7)
10—Last auditor to inspire affection.
(6)
12 —Willow duck and rising Brazilian
money. (5)
17— Suspend in favor of a scoundrel
(8)
18 — Birds contemptuous view of Roy
Rene’s batting. (7)
19 — The Italian address of the Taj
Mahal entirely upset the great
sheep of central .Asia. (6)
21 —How can an oval exist with an
inversion? (5)
23 Kangaroo heel. (7)
24 Saul was of this part of the foot
sailors going to America. (6)
27 —Banner to lose energy. (4)
29 Hour in Germany confused Ben.
(3)
30 — Fish upset a student prank. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 162


LOOK YOUR BEST!
The secret of the smart appearance of Stamina
Trousers even after years of dry cleaning is -
1. The beautiful dyes used, that never fade.
2. The wonderful "wrinkle-resistant" Crusader
worsteds that never shrink,
3. The special "cut" of the Trousers I
obtainable only in Stamina Brand; I
pcs ;■
; - • * t.
m
'
■; : • - v .
r\ i
/ I
I ■
&5»
mm
mm
■fW
mm K-iv: ;. v: 'S;
I
iiii
SJSS
m
mm
-
SSS
mm wmmrn
sm
' ' '*%
:w
‘ W
.■ ■ ■ ■■•
i
(pill
liiiici
ill
. .
-
.......
r % >.
■;vs
&
.
:>•■
/SAW.
'W&MyWk
- ■ . •
.
111
SB
MM
m
■■
S-::
5sS
Hfcl
i
■
w
m
mm
.mr
m
mi
m
KEEP FIT!
You will find health in every pair of Stamina.
Each wool fibre in Stamina Trousers acts like a
thermostat. It allows the skin to breathe and
protects you from heat and cold, acting as a
natural regulator of body temperature.
It cuts down the danger of chills*
BUY -
STRENGTH?
Why Is it an
economy to buy
Stamina Trousers?
The special pure
wool fibres
in Crusader cloth#
diameter for,
diameter, are
STRONGER THAN
STEEL. You are
wise to buy
trousers that DO
resist heavy wear*
. -rs
CLOTHES
INSIST ON GETTING
PURE WOOL
When you buy "Stamina"
you GET GOOD AUS-
TRALIAN WOOL, spun
and woven by the famous
Crusader Mills into
Crusader Cloth, styled by experts
and stoutly sewn into a smart,
comfortable, wear-resisting pair
of Stamina Trousers.
FOR VALUE,
THEY ARE OUTSTANDING
FOR
taniiiui
SELF-SUPPORTING j
TROUSERS
TAILORED
FROM
(Entaate
QUflth
