

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73 —No. 3766
Wednesday, April 16, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE TATE, PEERLES ART GALLERY OF THE WORLD
OVERLOOKING the Thames, a short distance upstream from the Houses
of Parliament, .is the Tate Gallery, home of the National Collection of
British Painting and of Modern Foreign Art. It possesses unique collections,
not only of Turner, but of Blake, the pre-Raphaelites, Stevens and contem-
porary British painting, and its collection of late nineteenth and early
twentieth century French paintings is the most representative in Europe.
Although the Tate was originally intended to house exclusively British art,
its scope has been considerably widened.
This imposing building owes its origin to the generosity of Sir Henry Tate.
In addition to the £BO,OOO he provided for the original building, he also
presented to the nation sixty-five pictures and three bronzes to form the
nucleus of the collection.
The Tate was designed in the free classical style by Sidney Smith, and
was built on the site of a prison which was demolished at the end of the last
century. The entrance has a handsome colonnade, surmounted by a statue of
Britannia with a lion and a unicorn lying at the corners of the pediment.
In 1897 the Gallery was formally opened by King Edward VII, then Prince
of Wales. Two years later the founder doubled the exhibition space by adding
eight more galleries and a sculpture hall, and in 1908, through-the generosity
of Sir Joseph Duveen, building was begun on nine more galleries to house
the Turner Bequest, previously housed in the National Gallery. These new
galleries were opened in 1910 by King George V.
Ever since its foundation the history of the Tate has been one of
continuous expansion both of the Gallery itself and of the collections. The
number of British paintings now totals over three thousand works, and
of modern foreign painting and sculpture more than five hundred. The
latter are represented by the work of Degas, Renoir, Monet, Cezanne, Van
Gogh, Gauguin and, more recently, by Paul Klee, Max Ernst and Marc Chagall.
An important post-war acquisition was a selection of seventy-three pictures by
official war artists.
In 1939 the contents of the Gallery were removed to places of safety,
and, as a result, the collections remained unharmed by the war, although the
building itself was damaged by the blast of two heavy bombs and it was also
struck by numerous incendiaries.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4L


earn
(Sraiii
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Hassell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(83.152) Age......
T he Red Page
TRIBUTE TO MUNNINGS.
May I add to the Red Page’s review
of Sir Alfred Munnings’s autobiography
a brief tribute to that excellent work? It
is not only an admirable self-portrait, but
a documented statement badly needed in
these days of experimental foolery in
painting; the statement of a masterly
craftsman on the exhaustive struggle to
achieve quality in the technique of
painting.
To a sincere painter the brief exhilara-
tions of that struggle are eternally dogged
by a conviction of frustration ; of having
only got half-way to the end sought.
“Not so good as I thought,” is the
melancholy reflection so often voiced by
Sir Alfred when contemplating a past
work. And with the evidence before us
of his astonishing command over the
metier of oil-painting, that confession of
a depressed emotion is enough to blow
the febrile, factious modernist studio-
world to blazes.
Munnings gives us a precise analysis
of his methods of attack on a painting,
and they are the only methods by which
good work may be achieved. Intense
concentration over draughtsmanship,
composition, brushwork, tonality, light
values and a distracting pursuit of nature
in the right mood to give an artist the
values his picture needs. In short,
unceasing study eternally nagged at by the
thought “It can’t be done.” Every
sincere painter knows that discouraged
state of mind which contemplates a
finished work and incessantly repaints it
mentally as it should have been painted.
His eyes alone can see it in that light,
while to others it may appear a work
which has arrived at precisely the result
sought by the artist.
Admirable as Sir Alfred’s racing and
hunting subjects are, he is not only a
painter of horses. He loves the horse,
and understands that its perfect modula-
tions are as definitely a created aesthetic
as those of a beautiful woman; but pro-
fessionally he has had to take commis-
sions to paint portraits of horses, and a
hell of a job that is, when it has to face
the exacting criticism of owners, trainers
and breeders of horses.
No society beauty is as captious over
the painted replica of her charms as a
horseman over the points of his horse.
I know something about that, for in my
youth horses were a major obsession of
my leisure, , and I was sometimes
misguided enough to attempt the portrait
of a friend’s horse ; and if the portrait of
a lady is “a picture with something wrong
about the nose,” that of a horse is one
with something wrong about the
shoulders.
But, horses aside, to me Sir Alfred’s
finest works are his gipsy caravan
subjects, which are better than Orpen’s,
and his garden-pieces, which are better
than those of Sims; and for a subtle
piece of portraiture it would be hard to
match his conversation-piece of Mr. and
Mrs. Prince. Both sitters are perfectly
revealed. Mr. Prince, handsome, digni-
fied, capable and altogether a gentleman ;
Mrs. Prince, a Narcissus self-absorbent;
an American millionaire’s wife, so petted
that she is able to gratify her every whim,
whose progress through life is rather more
regal than that of a Royal Princess.
No one who is concerned for the
dignity of art can afford to miss this
book. It affirmg that integrity in the artist
which has been booed at by the studio
exponents of infantilism, primitivism,
and what they call expressionism. We
who have lived through the modernist
revolt with its attack on all serious values
in art have had to endure the conscious
degradation of being labelled artists along
with this rabble which has charged the
art-world with a jargon of arbitrary
abstractions which claim to constitute a
new standard of values in plastic art. All
discipline in mastering the craft of paint-
ing is discarded. In Mencken’s words,
“Any lout who puts on a smock and a
palette on his thumb can call himself an
artist.”
Of course, we know that all this febrile
hate of effort—the virus generated by a
destroyed Europe—has no real validity,
und therefore its works must perish, and
the Picassos and their like survive only
as exhibits in a pathological clinic.
Nevertheless, its arrogant claims to hav-
ing created a new aesthetic in paint, aided
by the malice of newspaper critics, who,
as frustrates themselves, are enchanted to
see all noble values in art degraded, has
confused a great many serious-minded
intellectuals into muttering “There might
be something in it.” Sir Alfred
Munnings’s autobiography may assure
them that there can be nothing in an
art that does not devote years of austere
effort to conquer its technical difficulties.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
A Word from Partridge.
The Bulletin is sometimes fierce, but
never, I believe, unfair. May I, then,
reply briefly to “A Word with Partridge”
(R.P. 26/12/’51)?
For the introductory kind words, many
thanks ; they raised a blush upon these
aged cheeks.
It must not be supposed that when I
attribute Cockney influence I’m speaking
contemptuously: for me the Cockney,
the Scot, the New Zealander and the
Australian are, to use a cliche, the salt
of the earth, and many of the best quali-
ties in the Australian language and in the
Australian character spring from Cockney
origins. I’d be proud to be called a
Cockney.
The various contributors of essays upon
Dominions English did what they had
been asked to do. If essays failed to be
theses, the fault is not that of the con-
tributors ; it is mine—if anybody’s. The
proportions of A History of British and
American English Since 1900 were
scrupulously planned: that “goes” no less
for Professor John W. Clark’s and my
own contributions—by far the largest
part of the book, by the way. The con-
sensus of opinion among British and
American critics has been, all in all, the
contributors did a good job of work.
That the reviewer ignored my own
share (apart from that stop-gap chapter
on Australian English which so distressed
Turn) does not much matter. I’ve taken
much harder knocks that that, and sur-
vived. But it does a little sadden me that
a critic, obviously speaking less in anger
than in sorrow, should have entirely
ignored the truly excellent account —writ-
ten by John W. Clark —of American
English, for, both in Britain and in the
United States (and Canada), it has been
very highly praised. If ever I write any-
thing as good, I shall expect —or rather,
hope—to be praised for it, for I should
feel that I deserved well of my very
tolerant public.
ERIC PARURIDGE.
Hedin and Hitler.
No English-speaking reader is likely to
read Sven Hedin’s German Diary
(Euphorion Books, Dublin) without at
least raising a protesting eyebrow.
The celebrated Swedish explorer
describes himself as “an out-and-out
friend of Germany.” He says he learned
“with sorrow and disgust” that Dr.
Walter Funk, Hitler’s Minister for
Propaganda, “is now repining, in com-
mon with other ‘war criminals,’ under
inhuman conditions in Spandau prison.”
He quotes with complete self-approval
an interview he gave to a London “News
Chronicle” correspondent in October,
1939, in the course of which he said
“Hitler has made a tremendous sacrifice ;
he has struggled intensively for peace,
and will struggle yet.”
He found Goebbels “attractive” ; has
“nothing to say against” Ribbentrop. He
thought it was “reasonable” that Ger-
many should demand the return of her
colonies. Lecturing in Berlin in 1940,
he made the “jesting comment” that “it
would have been better for Europe if
America had never been discovered” ;
and later he reprints from one of his
books, printed in Germany in war-time,
the observation “This war will go down
in history as President Roosevelt’s war,”
also quoting a letter from Hitler in which,
naturally, the Fiihrer heartily agrees with
him —“Unquestionably the man who
bears the guilt for this war, as you state
at the end of your book, is exclusively
the American President Roosevelt.”
On the other hand we may note that
Hedin visited two English friends in the
German prison where they had been
interned and supplied them with money
and food-parcels for some years. He
protested in a book, which was conse-
quently banned in Germany, about the
Nazis’ inhuman treatment of the Jews,
and he helped many Jews to escape. It
was chiefly as a result of his representa-
tions, he believes, that Hitler refrained
from pressing Sweden to abolish the
Norwegian legation in Stockholm, which,
after Germany’s occupation of Norway,
became a centre of espionage and the
underground resistance. He protested to
General von Falkenhorst at the decision
to execute 10 Norwegians for under-
ground activities; Falkenhorst sent the
protest to Hitler, who reprieved the con-
demned men. Subsequently Hedin pro-
tested to the Allies at the death sentence
on Falkenhorst; and the German general,
in turn, was reprieved.
Though his evasions, his pro-Nazi
sympathies and his bland disregard of all
the terrible realities underlying what he
thought was Hitler’s legitimate desire to
“expand the frontiers” must irritate an
English reader, and though his views were
unpopular with large sections of Swedish
opinion, there is no doubt that Hedin
thought at all times that he was doing his
best first for Sweden and then for
Scandinavia as a whole. Some fear of
Germany shows in his book ; and much
greater fear of Russia. But possibly the
deepest emotion revealed is his affection
for the German publishing firm of
Brockhaus: “For upwards of 50 years
my private finances were largely
dependent on my royalties from Brock-
haus. We discussed everything together,
both new travels and new books, and
Albert and Hans Brockhaus always gave
me good and valuable advice. Through-
out the whole of his life Albert was my
closest confidant in this respect, and apart
from that he was an outstandingly fine,
charming and educated man.”
As a report from “the other side of
the hill,” German Diary is not quite as
interesting as it should be, partly be-
cause of Sven Hedin’s concern with
matters of more importance to himself
than to the history of Europe, partly
because of a certain awkwardness and
ponderousness in the style as it has been
translated, and chiefly because of the
reserve with which it is presented. How-
ever, it does give intimate glimpses of
most of the Nazi leaders, including a
conversation with Hitler where the
Fiihrer, relaxing, wistfully remarks “My
life is like a saga. The whole course of
my life has been saga-like. Few people
have experienced so many wonders as I.
But a human life is only a short episode,
it vanishes as quickly as the foam on the
surface of a river” ; and from the whole
book there emerges a portrait, moving in
its way, of the old explorer, acting as an
“unofficial” ambassador, as he says,
wandering about Berlin in war-time and
begging his dear friend Hitler, the peace-
maker, not to “expand the frontiers”
quite as far as Sweden.
A Willie-wagtail.
Mr. G. T, M. Roach in Come in, Willie
(printed for the author by E. J. McAlister
and Co., 24 Blyth-street, Adelaide)
appears partly as a mystic and partly as
a bird-watcher; and the bird-watching,
which fills nine-tenths of the little book, is
so good that, if a mere reviewer may
presume to advise an author, one would
suggest that willie-wagtails are likely to
prove a much more profitable line of
research than the willy-willies of tran-
scendental thought.
Mr. Roach makes his book of the
simplest materials; and that is exactly
how a good nature-book should be
made: not large generalities but small
precise facts. It is the story of how he
made friends with a wagtail, or a wag-
tail made friends with him.
Willie- —if he will pardon this familiar
use of his name —used to watch Mr.
Roach working in his garden. He hopped
and fluttered about, chasing flies and
taking a deep interest in the compost-
heap, very much like other wagtails. But
then came the great day when he decided
to adopt the gardener:
I was busy with the handfork and filling
the bucket, but unaware that the wagtail
was about, when the bird suddenly came
flying, turning and twisting, right to my
hand. He then hopped lightly up to the
bucket’s rim immediately in front of me,
and there, within easy reach, remained
staring as though quite at ease 1 put
out my hand, made silly clucking noises
With audibly smart snapping Willie pecked
tentatively at the nearest finger, then sprang
on to the back of the hapd being held flat
and face-down. He was now lifted to face-
level, where, at a distance of about 14 inches
or less, bird and man looked at each other
fairly in the eyes for the first time
Suddenly, with another loud burst of stac-
cato chattering, the surprising bird sprang
across to this newly-found friend’s shoulder
and gave some lively pecks to neck and ear.
The friendship grows. Willie, though
it is not the nesting season, develops a
fondness for springing to the top of Mr.
Roach’s head and pulling his hair out.
He is fed with cheese at the back-door,
then lured inside, a step which he takes
with infinite caution. While he perches
on the radio or dines from cheese at his
friend’s table he becomes, as time runs
on, an object of intense curiosity to
various impertinent sparrows who watch
him from outside through the window.
Later the friendship between man and
bird i§ to cause tremendous agitation in
the bosom of Mrs. Wagtail, who aw
watches his antics through the window.
Along with delightful descriptions of
these little dramas, Mr. Roach has some
odd bits of bird-lore to relate. On one
occasion, for instance, Willie gravely pre-
sented him, as one offering a rare
treasure, with two horsehairs which the
bird had found in the garden. Once he
got in a rage with some strands of cotton
stretched out in the garden like a
miniature fence to keep marauding birds
from the vegetables; and jumped on the
fence till he flattened it. He liked to
have the electric-light on in the house;
and he had a habit of talking to Mr.
Roach with silent beak-movements, as if
he were trying to learn English or, per-
haps, making some bird-sounds inaudible
to the human ear.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Clown: E. T. Oliver (Cape). A
quiet little novel about a lawyer’s son
who grew up wanting to play Hamlet,
studied acting, and was advised, much
against his grain, that his abilities lay in
clowning. He married an actress de-
scended from one of the many English
theatrical families ; but she experimented
with other men to improve her art, or
something ; nevertheless he could not give
her up; and this and other reverses,
including the recent war, are shown to
have given him the sense of pathos with-
out which no clown can become great;
and be ends the book a success as a
pantomime dame in the same pantomime
he attended as a child in the opening of
the book, his first experience of the
theatre.
« * * *
The Alpine Annual Vol. 2: edited by
T. Graham Brown (Dent). For alpinists
only; a selection of articles from “The
Alpine Journal,” including E. F. Norton’s
account of “Mount Everest: the Last
Lap” and T. Graham Brown on “Girdle-
stone and the Matterhorn Accident,
1865.” There are some New Zealand
notes by David Hall but nothing from
Australia.
*** • *
Disabled Citizens: Joan Simeon Clarke
(Allen and Unwin). A survey of the
status of disabled people in the modern
world, what they can do and what is
being done for them ; chiefly in Great
Britain, but with considerable reference
to the U.S.A. and Scandinavia. The
disabilities discussed include cerebral
palsy, epilepsy, tuberculosis and deafness.
Foreword by Lord Beveridge.
* * * *
English Life and Leisure: B. Seebohm
Rowntree and G. R. Lavers (Longmans).
Another of the procession of social studies
in which the British, feeling that their
civilisation has reached a crisis, are trying
to find out what they are made of and
what they mean to themselves and to the
world,. The first section is a series of
“case histories” —short, intimate bio-
graphies of men and women from all
ranks of life ; then follows an examina-
tion into gambling, drink, smoking,
sexual promiscuity, commercial honesty,
the cinema, the stage, broadcasting,
dancing, reading habits, adult education,
religion and leisure. The book is dis-
tinguished from most of its kind by its
clarity, comprehensiveness and compact-
ness ; but its clinical tone is repellent to
the present reviewer, who doesn’t care to
see human beings put under the micro-
scope as if they were beetles and doesn t
know, anyhow, what is the use of it
unless you propose to organise them m
some totalitarian beetle-run.
* * * *
East and West: F. T. Cheng (Hutchin-
son). Dr. Cheng was head of the mission
to England for the international exhibi-
tion of Chinese art in 1935, later a judge
of the Permanent Court of International
Justice at the Hague, and later Chinese
Ambassador to England until Britain
recognised the Communist regime. His
autobiography treads delicately ancl
decorously, with many precepts from
Confucius, through the territories indi-
cated by his career.
» * * *
Brown and Company : J. H. Fingleton
(Collins). The tour of the M.C.C. m
Australia in 1950-51. Mr. Fingleton
writes a plain and pleasant narrative, witn
much more cricket in it than you get in
most other cricket books, which are
usually too full of beautiful phrases oi
beautiful squabbles. If you want to
know precisely what happened in
M.C.C. tour, here it is; and only m the
last chapter are there some strictures on
our players’ tea-drinking some
fears that New Australians won’t take
to flie game and that the younger genera-
tion “is becoming keener on drinking
beer and betting on racehorses than on
playing sport,” and some gloomy for®"
feedings about the late Davis Cup.


We have all the famous names in Tweeds, Gabardines
Including Marco, Robert Hirst, Sporco, Aquascutum, Dunlop, Utilus, Telemac, Sackville, Barracuta
£l3/14/-
U-P K
0 fi "
// \ M fjbw o
k. mA
I
\ :
\yj
pK
/ M
mi 'i
f
ihysy ■
w^m&S
_.
. >.. •" ■;
w w
-S'*
• I
*£
/
nil
■_-Gt |
||||
«: u V" % ■
\i\ %. |V - lii
rS 1 ' /
k\[i \Fmt
■==\( '-’S”&
■==f
HHm S /WSfflK :
■■t Mv
‘: : ■■■ ■ :
mm i i *
IplPlf#
■ ■ :-. :•■ o'
f
■<PPM
‘
% , 3®'
'4 V < \
■
11 *?ni
111 l
iHii
flpß
I ■
ms- ■
■
■Big
■■■
■I
VVy * /
Wrw»w
57
Hfl
J f .''A :
. A>* ■ "-*W i
WM. ••'•••> 1
iMfe
II 'i|i *L
i|||l ' Ife IIL
S 'V, ' IR
% V
■•v «
i
iiS
n\M
' i
pnranj
II \ l
m
i iiiip
■n
, ■ ' ;, ;
lilll yy
%
Wks
i •■ •■ ," ; ;:•
MW S
■
iliil
£l6/12/-
£l6/8/-
£3O/8/6
Check Tweed Overcoat tailored by Marco
in finely woven Fisher Firth English
Tweed. Select FROM OUR many shades
in Grey, Fawn, Brown. \ sizes 4 to 8.
5.8., D.B. style . . . Priced at £l6/12/'
A Wool Gabardine Topcoat superbly
tailored in England by Robert Hirst. This
Single-breasted style in the season’s most
popular shade, Light Fawn. Sizes 34 to
44. ' Priced at £l6/8/
This Navy Woo! Gabardine Overcoat
styled for us by Dunlop. A masterly cut
Double-breaster. 36 to 42 sizes. £l3/14/-.
Woo! Gabardine Topcoats from a famous
maker, Aquascutum. English tailored,
Single-breasted style. Every man’s size.
Navy and Fawn . . . Priced at £3O/8/6
Unillustrated
The Fawn Wool Gabardine Topcoat,
tailored in England by Sporco ... a great
name in highest grade Gabardines. Our
sues in this Single-breasted style are 34
to 44 ! . For £l5/15/-
You Can Help Make
Australia Great . . . .
Support the Olympic
Games Fund Appeal
"TRUTH
n
►
MEN’S COATS GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. TELEPHONE M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Round the world Air travel
with "short tripconvenience
AGENT FOR BRITISH
r *
m
a
m
W
G
BRITISH 2"
AirSy
mN:
M
YOUR FULL-CIRCLE
CONCESSION TICKET
INCLUDES ALL THIS
1. Your round-the-world trip planned
from start to finish without booking
fee. From the moment you board
your first luxury airliner you’re in the
hands of a system planned to take
good care of you the whole way.
2. You enjoy the finest
food (hot and cold) fault-
lessly served aloft by the
world’s finest stewards and
hostesses. Your aircraft is
air-conditioned, your entire
crew highly trained and
experienced.
FLY im
BRITISH
QANTAS mC TEAL
sd
4
Right round the world under your own flag—through a dozen or more
different countries —in the world’s most luxurious aircraft! And all with the
convenience of a short trip because four great British Airlines are interconnected
to bring you a new standard of round-the-world service.
Fly Eastward or Westward., see the Old World and the New. Enjoy the superb
service for which Airlines of the British Commonwealth are justly famous. ..
all on the one single concession ticket which takes you all the way.
Ask your travel agent about this wonderful way to fly round the world . ..
by the British Round-the-World Air System.
3. A fast trip round the world in a
week or break your journey wherever
you wish! It’s your choice and there’s
no extra fare. If you wish to see the
sights in any of a dozen or more
countries, helpful British service is
always there.
4. In the air and on the ground fault-
less service is yours—all the way!
The airlines of the British Common-
wealth wouldn’t think of letting you
even lift a bag . . . and it’s all in the
round-world concession ticket —no
gratuities. Free baggage allowance is
a generous 88 lbs.
BOOK THROUGH YOUR TRAVEL AGENT or any office of 8.0.A.C., BC PA or
M.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD.
(INC. IN QUEENSLAND)
$
A
s i
o-fti
s
TAS'IS
£
QAN
/<?^ROO^^
«LD
MEMBER OF THE BRITISH ROUND-THE-WORLD AIR SYSTEM WITH 8.0.A.C., BCPA AND TEAL


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3766
Wednesday, April 16, 1952
<# 5
df
THE AUSTRALIAN CONSTITUTION.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NO NEED FOR DEPRESSION.
While Sydney Royal Show was at its
crowded height and Sydney shops were
full and a handful of fitters in the employ
of the “Labor” Government of N. S.
Wales was holding up the State transport
authorities at pistol-point. Sir Arthur
Fadden issued a statement in which he
assured Australia that it would not have
to meet a depression unless it went asking
for it.
In the face of the commercial facts the
statement seemed an almost self-evident
platitude. True, the financial yield from
wool sales is down by more than 50 per
cent, this year, but it is still three times
that of 1946-47, which was a good year,
and so long as wool is produced in
present quantities there is no evidence that
it will fall much below that figure for a
long time. Wheat prospects are favor-
able, and a high income is assured to
the industry if farmers put their backs
into it and produce to the limit of their
capacity and of their land. There are no
circumstances looming in the future, save
the possibility of war, which would
plunge the country into the poverty of
the early ’thirties. There is no real un-
employment.
The pained noises which rise from
certain quarters about the dreadful pass
to which the Menzies-Fadden Govern-
ment has brought the Commonwealth are
mainly political or produced by the creak-
ing joints of sloth stirred up by a warn-
ing toe. If the Menzies Government
had come into office in a blaze of rain-
bows and scattering diamonds and caviare,
Dr. Evatt and his henchmen would still
have croaked that they were ruining the
country. And if beef were sixpence a
pound and lamb-chops were given away
with s.p, betting-tickets the Communist
party would still be organising strikes
against the tyranny of the boss and in-
toning its gramophonic records from
Moscow about “warmongers” and the
high cost of living.
It is a shame upon the country that,
with its resources and the expanding
demands for its special products, the
word “depression” should even be in the
Australian political dictionary ; but it is
there because Australian “Labor’s” policy
has reverted to the Dark Ages; because
its plan for salvation is almost exactly in
line with that of the aborigines, who were
a perfect exemplar of what results when
the doctrine of the right to loaf is
carried to its natural conclusion.
Work with the abo. was an interrup-
tion to sleep under a tree, and production
was limited to the bare necessities of
life. “Labor,” in and out of power, is
on the road to the same goal and the
same condition. Under the impact of
its philosophy all incentive is dying except
the incentive to get something for no
effort. And that can only have one end.
There can be no real progress in a country
in which there is a national aversion to
hard work, in which the powers-that-be
in half the Governments that rule are
suspicious of contentment except with
themselves, and in which living is domi-
nated by a horde of agitators (along with
a concomitant horde of legislating civil
servants) who batten on industry in the
name of “Labor” or “the producers” and
whose interest it is to fan dissension be-
cause without dissension there would be
no jobs to keep agitators fat.
The danger of depression, if there is
any, does not lie in anything the Com-
monwealth Government is doing. It lies
in the 40-hour week, in steadily
dwindling exports and increasingly
adverse trade-balances obvious over
the past few months. Population is
steadily increasing ; immigration, some of
it of poorly productive material, is still
being fostered, with some damage to the
homogeneity of the race. Yet the pro-
duction on which Australia lives is steadily
falling, per man, under the impact of
loaf and strike and the (inflating
demands of slowed-up labor —demands
such as those which the Communist-run
Australian Railways Union is at present
making on the bankrupt and decrepit
N. S. Wales railways for wages of up to
£35 a week.
Compared with the same two-
thirds of 1950-51 Australian butter
exports for the eight months ended
February 28 decreased by 40,000-
odd tons, cheese by roughly 3500
tons, beef and veal by 15,000 tons, pork
by 2000 tons, wheat by 321,000 tons,
jams and jellies by 4000 tons, sugar by
185,000 tons, wool by 50,000 tons. And
a favorable trade balance for the eight
months of last year of £lO7 million-
favorable because of the enormous and
unprecedented price of wool—has been
turned into an eight-months’ deficit of
£319 million.
One of the worst and most dangerous
things that has happened to Australia is
that it has developed a jargon which en-
ables it to avoid looking facts in the face
—the kind of argot which describes a
barefaced and locally illegal gamble at
the longest odds as an “investment in an
inter-State consultation” and hides bank-
ruptcy under such terms as “unstabilised
economy.” Because this circumlocutory
language is normal in all discussions of
unpleasant economic facts few people
understand what is happening to the
Commonwealth.
It is like a naturally rich farm which
some hard old toiler has built up by hard
work and shrewd saving over a lifetime
and which has been left to a sporty
generation of youngsters who, because
of the old man’s effort, have never known
the need to toil. Randwick is their real
interest. Streamlined sports-models take
the place of the hay-wagons. Hundreds
of families have gone to ruin in this way.
It is just as easy for a whole heedless
community to go over the precipice.
Anybody who goes outside Australia
sees that the challenge is squarely up to
us. Everything in latent resources
needed to make for permanent prosperity
and full employment is here: everything,
that is, except a national will to work, a
national will to united effort and economy
and an agreement to pull together. Also a
realisation that the rules of economics
have not been suspended, by Providence
in our special favor and that when a
country continues to produce less than
it needs to pay its way it falls into in-
solvency in exactly the same way as a
business, a farm or an individual.
The theory that a Government can
maintain full employment by expansion
of its civil service to illimitable size and
make a finite income stretch by giving
everybody more does not work —any
more than one which says that when an
empty hand is pushed into an empty
pocket money comes out according to the
owner’s needs.
Psychiatry and Society.
[A Sydney psychiatrist in this article
deals with a matter of growing social
concern .]
Today there is a definite increase in the
number of people afflicted with neuroses.
There has also been a notable increase, in
recent years, in novels of the King’s Row
type, “Snake Pit” films, and journalistic
articles on nervous disorders.
These things, of course, have social
implications. Take a class of patient well
represented in psychiatrists’ rooms—
young married women between the ages
of 25 and 30, with symptoms so
standardised that the experienced practi-
tioner can anticipate them, word for
word, before they are mentioned. There is
a common feeling of insecurity, an appre-
hension and dread, mostly construed into
fear of insanity, fear of sudden death, or
fear of travelling on trains or trams.
Some of them will not go outside for
fear of dropping dead. Many are afraid
of having children, and the excuses for
this fear are varied and ingenious: but
they mostly boil down to a fear of some-
thing dreadful happening to them at
childbirth.
Some women have read so much about
the inheritance of mental disease that
they are afraid their children will be
insane. They have anxiously examined
their family histories and may have dis-
covered a “nervous breakdown” in a
relative near or remote; so they decide
there is no hope for them.
These patients admit that they have
read a lot about psychology. Not only
newspaper articles, but sometimes case-
histories from textbooks are read ; and
they apply the symptoms they have read
about to themselves.
During the war soldiers in certain areas
learnt off parrot-fashion the symptoms
of an “anxiety neurosis.” Some of them
even discovered that by keeping their fists
tightly clenched inside their pockets
before a medical examination they could
produce the sweating palms associated
with an anxiety state. With all the agita-
tion about venereal disease many soldiers
have been tortured by the belief that they
had syphilis and could never be cured.
It is well known that medical students
apply the symptoms of the diseases they
are studying to themselves, imagining that
they are suffering from pulmonary
tuberculosis or cancer —to name two
favorites—at certain stages of their
course. I have known students who
suspected that they had leprosy. Nowa-
days, with all the talk of neuroses, many
of them believe they are suffering from
subtle forms of mental disease.
When Australian prisoners-of-war were
repatriated from Germany and Japanese
territory there was a flood of “expert”
articles advising the correct method of
“dealing with” the returned husband, son
or lover. Often a bewildered man stepped
into an atmosphere of strained solicitude
which confused him further. It only
needed the effect of such reading on the
man himself for him to believe there was
something “wrong” with him. A natural
tension following incarceration and
release, together with the “let-down”
feeling that follows on the heels of the
realisation of hope long deferred, were
then sufficient, in not a few cases, to ease
a normal man down the road to mental
convalescence. Yet the same man may
have already proved the mettle of his
spirit under the goad of sinister
hardships.
The paradox is not remarkable. When
people suffering from such disorders as
anxiety neurosis are brought face to face
with real dangers their symptoms usually
disappear. In the Spanish civil war, after
the bombing of Barcelona, every
psychiatrist in the country expected an
enormous increase in the number of
psychiatric cases. Numbers declined.
Again, in England, the authorities had
set aside a number of large hospitals for
psychiatric casualties of bombing. The
numbers affected came nowhere near their
calculations.
In front-line soldiers combat exhaustion
does occur, but anxiety neurosis is not
common.
Neuroses occur mostly in cities and in
high civilisations. They are not common
in rural areas among people bom and
bred in the district. Education plays its
part because, if the position is analysed,
it will be found that modern education
is a technique of imposing a rigid, regi-
mented pattern which is designed for the
majority and not for the individual.
Education has become increasingly
utilitarian, and is closely involved with
parental pride—a sort of “keeping up
with the Joneses.” Boom wages for the
young, too, help to lure bright pupils
away from the professions and into the
immediate labor-market. The drain is
serious when it is realised that only about
2 per cent, of schoolchildren have the
necessary equipment for tertiary educa-
tion anyway.
It is certain that children sit for
examinations such as the Intermediate
and Leaving at too early an age. This is
particularly true of girls, who have the
strain of examinations imposed on the
difficulties of puberty. In the struggle the
first casualty is personality—the thinking
mind. There is a steady barrage of
standardisation: in the classroom, with
the object of passing examinations;
outside, from the films, the wireless, and,
soon, television. Learning for learning’s
sake is vanishing from the earth, and we
are the worse for it.
Consider now for a moment a product
of this education. A girl who has just left
school and started work in the city. She
exchanges the unreality of school for the
unreality of an office and there she meets
men who, like her, are playing a part.
In due course, with a careful respect for
the conventions as issued by Hollywood,
she is courted by one of them and marries
him.
She is an only child, her parents are
fairly well-off, and she has been brought
up among labor-saving devices. In a
vital way she is uneducated for marriage
—she can’t cook.
(Hospital matrons, by the way, com-
plain bitterly that the present crop of
probationary nurses can’t sew.) She has
learnt a terrific amount about sex, but
her knowledge is theoretical. Even if
she and her husband have both been
promiscuous, they are no better off. They
expect perfect sexual union, and this is
rare. They also expect to begin where
their parents left off, forgetting that their
parents worked hard in their youth for
the comforts they enjoyed in later life.
The child arrives. The young wife has
conscientiously read everything she can
lay her hands on concerning child-care,
she has consulted friends and attended
clinics, and is quite muddled. In the days
of large families little girls handled babies
with a casual expertness that was
wonderful to see: and this familiarity
was a valuable training for motherhood.
But the .voung mother of today
approaches her own baby, at best, with
misgivings. Her nervousness is com-
municated to the child, who in turn
becomes excited and difficult.
Housing difficulties don’t help. Living
with in-laws and birth-control are two
major causes of nervous disorders in
women. Divorce has increased their
emotional insecurity. Once marriage was
final and both parties made the best of
it.
Insecurity and fear of the future are
symptomatic of our age. Religion and
patriotism are losing their influence. Our
standards are deteriorating and becoming
the standards of Hollywood,
It may be protested that the Devil of
Hollywood is being painted blacker
than he can possibly deserve. In any case,
he is a convenient symbol for a lot of
loose-thinking and half-baked idealism.
In the book Cry Korea a war-
correspondent points out that many
American troops seemed incapable of
facing the facts of war without a protec-
tive wrapping of glamor. The same thing
happens in ordinary life. A girl marries
not a man but an imitation screen
character: naturally she is disappointed.
Well, her grandmother was probably dis-
appointed when she discovered Grand-
father Albert was something less than a
demigod in whiskers. But Grandmother,
for one thing, expected less to begin with;
for another, neither she nor Grandfather
had much time for unhappiness, with
babies to look after and clothes to mend
and chores from daylight to dark. And
if she was unhappy she frankly recognised
that she was unhappy. Her grand-
daughter glorifies her unhappiness into a
neurosis.
Modern woman, too, by aping man
has lost the art of managing men. She
uses her legal rights—often shrewdly—
rather than her femininity; and she is
always the loser.
Many a desperately-unhappy couple,
living with relations, have returned to a
primitive life, living in a tent. And in
the subsequent struggle their nervous
symptoms have disappeared.
Self-pity is the great evil. Work is the
great cure. This advice is not new. It is
known to all the older physicians, and
it was known by the ancient Greeks, who
believed that the road to happiness was
through hard toil of body and mind.
Despite modern techniques of psycho-
analysis, hypnotism and medication, we
have no better advice to offer today.
Newcastle Breathes Again.
“Abdul Assiz”: At the beginning of
April the Public Works Department
proudly announced that the amount of
silt being extracted weekly from New-
castle Harbor had reached 140,000 tons.
Unfortunately, the spokesman gave no
details as to the part played by the
several dredges, nor could data be
obtained from them individually. The
reluctance shown can be attributed to
several and diverse reasons.
The Dutch, it may be assumed, did not
wish to embarrass their fellow-workers
on the other dredges, while the perform-
ance of the much-publicised Richard
Vo well (although now working at what
the responsible official described some
time ago as an “impossible” 11 eight-hour
shifts a week) is hardly of the order to
justify jubilant broadcasting. The
authorities, however, had overlooked the
fact that sufficient information had been
released previously to allow a
reasonably accurate estimate to be made
of the work done by each operator, and
the following figures may be taken as
very near to the truth.
The diesel-driven 1100-ton Dutch
dredge, H.A.M. 301, working two 11-
hour shifts a day, is responsible for re-
moving an average of 40,000 tons during
each five-day week. The 1400-ton, coal-
burning Richard Vowell, working two
eight-hour shifts from Monday to Friday
and one eight-hour shift on Saturday, is
raising 30,000 tons, while the remaining
seven dredges (two ladder, two grab, two
bar and one sand), in varying stages ot
antiquity and decrepitude, account for
the remaining 70,000 tons of silt between
them. .
On test in October, 1950, the Richard
Vowell extracted 1400 tons of silt from
Newcastle Harbor in 13i minutes and
discharged it in 11 minutes (B. 6/12/ 50),
and it was calculated, allowing three times
as long for travelling as for working,
that the dredge could handle 24,000 tons
of silt a day, as compared to the present
5500 tons approximately. This latter
figure confirms the observed two dis-
charging-trips a shift made by the R icfia ™
Vowell and indicates that more than l
hours a day are taken up in moving six
collected in less than an hour.
H.A.M. 301, on trial in early March,
dredged 1200 tons of silt in 15 minutes.
It averages four discharging-trips a snut,


and thus takes up in travelling a total of
20 hours out of its 22-hour day.
The tonnage of silt shifted is small
in comparison with the capacity of the
dredges, although the Dutch figures
justify the insistence of the Newcastle
Chamber of Commerce that outside help
was necessary to make a job of harbor-
dredging, but the blame for it lies chiefly
in the long journey out to sea —wasteful
both of time and material —which will
continue until the Public Works Depart-
ment completes the building of the retain-
ing-walls which will allow the dis-
charging of silt and the reclamation of
land at Moscheto, Dempsey, Ash and
Walsh Islands.
The contract price for the Dutch
dredging works out at a trifle above £1
for each six tons of silt. This would
appear to be well below the comparable
figure for the Richard Vowell and only a
small fraction of the cost of extracting
silt with the aged and motley fleet of
auxiliary dredges. It would be interest-
ing to learn what the procrastination of
the Public Works Department is costing
the public purse.
A ray of consolation appears on the
otherwise dark sky of the Newcastle
horizon. It is the hope that the promised
6500 acres of land to be reclaimed by
the silt not dumped out to sea will house
new industries. Already the Newcastle
Chamber of Commerce has pointed out to
a major oil co. that this land is worth
investigating as a site for the £25 million
refinery it is proposing to build.
In the meantime, however, ships have
to be bulldozed to reach the Newcastle
wharves, a process not likely to increase
the popularity of the port with ship-
owners. One of the latest instances is
that of a comparatively small ship—the
Derwent River, of 5109 tons —which stuck
in the mud at the Steelworks wharf as
she was berthing. It took two tugs three
hours to warp her alongside.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Constitutional Reform.
Sir John Latham, retiring from the office
of Commonwealth Chief Justice, told
members of the Bench and Bar that the
Commonwealth Constitution was “due for
review.”
There is nothing novel in that state-
ment. It is one of the few propositions
on which all parties agree, though there
are differences as to what the nature of
the review should be and where it
should aim—whether towards cementing-
in Federalism more firmly as the key-
stone of the Australian method of
government, as is held by a large section
of Liberal thought, or towards producing
a centralised sovereign Government from
which provinces would acquire their
power by delegation, as is envisaged by
the “Labor” party’s official platform.
Sir John particularised a few matters
which he considers need attention, and
for his views on these he will also com-
mand very widespread support. Every
High Court Judge must have suppressed
a “Hear, hear!” when he said that Sec-
tion 92, which declares trade, commerce
and intercourse between the States to be
“absolutely free,” had given him more
trouble as barrister. Minister and judge
than any other, and that it was time some
effort was put forward to “make it a little
clearer.”
It is also very plain that if Federalism
is to be maintained there must be some
reconsideration of the financial relation-
ship between Commonwealth and States,
and that more clarity and exactitude are
necessary in defining excise and dealing
with corporations under Commonwealth
powers; also some simplification of law
relating to industrial disputes.
In short, the whole Imperial Act needs
to be overhauled, more particularly as
the principles of interpretation have suf-
fered considerable change since the Com-
monwealth was constituted. For the first
20 years under a Chief Justice who was
himself one of the authors of the Con-
stitution, it was held by the High Court
that there was an implied restriction that
Commonwealth powers must not be exer-
cised in a way calculated to impair the
governmental functions of the States.
But since the days of the Engineers’ case
in 1920 it has been held that Federal
powers are subject only to limitations
expressed in clear terms in the Imperial
Act, and this viewpoint reached its most
emphatic expression in the court’s deci-
sion on uniform taxation statutes in 1942.
The clear method of reform seems to
be through a convention. Parliament has
several times dealt with a proposal to
hold one —Mr. Hughes introduced legis-
lation in 1921, but his scheme fell down
because agreement could not be reached
with the States.
M*. Bruce and Sir John Latham both
took steps of which the only concrete
result was the now-forgotten Peden royal
commission. Mr. Lyons’s attempt was
abortive. Messrs. Curtin and Evatt
failed to achieve a totalitarian govern-
ment for five years after the war because
only Messrs. McKell and Hanlon’s State
Parliaments passed their draft bill un-
conditionally and because four States out
of six and a majority of electors would
have none of Dr. Evatt’s subsequent plan
at a referendum.
However, though no attempts have
gone far beyond initial disputes about the
composition of a convention, there is little
doubt that it would provide the most
satisfactory method of procedure, even
though on Sir John’s advice and that of
Mr. Justice Nicholas, given to the Bruce
and Lyons Governments, the initiative in
creating a convention seems to lie with
the States under Section 51 (xxxviii).
The snag is that though Federal “Labor”
is just as eager as anybody for reform —
or, rather, for the revolution which would
make the irrevocable socialisation of the
country possible the first time it achieved
Federal office —it will oppose every
attempt by a Liberal Government at
reform for fear that safeguards might
creep in for the further protection of the
States’ sovereignty and of the principles
of free enterprise.
Qantas Expansion.
Gradually climbing to stable solvency,
in strong contrast to the dilapidated bank-
ruptcy of the Australian State transport
departments, the rapidly-expanding air-
services which owed their birth to the
drive of young Australian war-time air-
men are reaching astonishing proportions.
Mr. Hudson Fysh estimates that the
stage has been reached in Australia at
which one person in every 17 of the
whole population of all ages makes at
least one flight a year. And this is im-
proving. Apart from the companies en-
gaged in purely internal Commonwealth
air-carriage, Qantas Empire Airways last
year carried 94,543 passengers, or just
on 20,000 more than the year before, the
average distance travelled by each pas-
senger being 1887 miles,
Qantas passenger mileage of 178,421,000
was an increase over the previous year
by 33 per cent. The overall weight of
mails carried was nearly 900 tons, and
of air cargo nearly 3500 tons. The
length of routes over which Qantas, which
started its first precarious service 30 years
ago, now flies is over 40,000 miles, and
this figure will be increased some time
in the second half of this year, when
there will be inaugurated a direct link
via Cocos Island and Mauritius with
Johannesburg, adding another 8488 miles
to the concern’s normal unduplicated
route-mileage.
Today Qantas is “showing the flag” in
16 separate countries, and never was the
Australian flag better displayed; for
everywhere that Qantas goes its staff
stand out for smartness and demeanor,
and its methods and precautions are cited
as the world’s best.
Moreover, no matter what its linkages,
it never seems and never is anything but
Australian —and it doesn’t forget to let
the world know it.
Trouble in the Force.
Brisbane took its Easter holidays with its
detective-force threatening a “regulation
strike,” after talking about an ordinary
strike because two of their number were
demoted. In a sort of a kind of palliative
to the cops Premier Gair announced that
the entire Queensland police-force would
be investigated from top to bottom. He
also sort of administered a kind of implied
rebuke to Home Affairs Minister Moore
by taking control of the police from him
and handing it to Labor and Industry
Minister Jones.
In its early features the thing has a
strange resemblance to the Victorian
police “strike” (which was actually a
mutiny) of 1923. That was worked up
when some licensing-police were reduced
to ordinary beat-duty. The effect was
that on the eve of the Melbourne Cup
racing carnival Melbourne was suddenly
without police, and the result of that was
rioting, looting, murder and wrecking in
the heart of the city for three days, with
sporadic outbreaks in city and suburbs
for the next month. Another result was
that a new police-force was recruited
and the strikers had to find other work.
Premier Gair’s decision to “investigate”
the force looks fine in headlines, but it
seems destined to take a mighty long
time to get anywhere. The job is to be
done by one man, Chief Inspector
Harold, and he, according to the Premier,
will “investigate the set-up and strength”
of every police-station in the State,
“alleged grievances within the force” and
“whether personnel are suitably placed.”
After which the investigator will report
to the Police Commissioner and he will
report to the Cabinet. Where the report
will go from there isn’t stated, and it
doesn’t much matter, because by the time
the Chief Inspector gets through his
specified task time will have softened
acerbities and healed most wounds.
Cahill's Blackout System.
As seen from the N.S.W. Riverina:
On All Fool’s Day, 1952, three towns in the
southern Riverina —Henty, Culcairn and Walla
Walla —entered into the enjoyment of Premier
Cahill’s Blackout System. Prior to this the
townspeople were served by private franchise-
holders who were so behind the times that they
did not provide any blackouts, impose any
restrictions, and gave the people what they
wanted. This by means of self-contained diesel
generating-sets.
About three years ago one of the franchise-
holders, Murrell Bros., of Culcairn, asked the
Southern Riverina County Council, which is in
control of the Blackout System in these parts,
if their franchise could be extended, and were
advised this could not be considered. Nothing
more came from behind the iron curtain until
a letter was received by the franchise-holders
inquiring if they would be prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their reticulation assets, to which
a prompt reply in the affirmative was given.
Silence again descended until early in
December, when a firm of Sydney consulting
engineers employed by the S.R.C.C. made a
valuation of the various undertakings. To
expedite matters and to provide the utmost
co-operation, as time was running out, the
franchise-holders assisted with the inventories,
while making plain they were not necessarily
assenting to any valuation arrived at.
Nothing further was heard until February 22,
1952, when the franchise-holders received certain
offers and were advised in a mandatory manner
that if they did not accept them by February
29 the S.R.C.C. would consider them rejected.
These offers were apparently more related to
scrap-value (did someone whisper something
about 1942 land values?) than to valuable
undertakings doing a good job, and the offers
were, of course, unacceptable.
No further attempt at negotiation was made,
and the franchise-holders were advised that the
S.R.C.C. proposed erecting new reticulations,
which would have involved a complete stoppage
of any supply to the greater part of the con-
sumers of the various towns for a period up to
18 months.
In this they were quite serious, and the
possibility caused the president of the Culcairn
shire to call a hurried conference of the parties,
at which an agreement was reached regarding
reticulations only, the S.R.C.C. advising they
were not at all interested in the plants and that
under the Blackout System the towns would
be no worse off than the rest of the Cahill
State, anyway. On March 31 a statement was
issued by Mr. Cahill praising the S.R.C.C. for
its efficiency, and stating the three towns would
now enjoy cheaper and better supply of elec-
tricity.
It is, of course, all a matter of opinion, and
if Mr. Cahill approves of more and bigger and
better blackouts where none existed before, much
greater variations in voltage (pressure), and a
certain amount of radio-interference introduced
into the towns with the high-tension lines —
well, the towns are better off. But at the latest
the local citizenry are making crude remarks
about the whole thing and trying to get the
powers-that-be at least to buy them back their
diesel-engines.
Rolls, Unbuttered.
It has often been alleged by persons
with suspicious minds that the reason
the Queensland “Labor” Government
will not use the Commonwealth electoral
rolls—as do the other States —is because
their own State roll contains so many
names of deceased citizens who, with the
clear vision granted those beyond the
grave, materialise every election-day to
record their votes for “Labor.”
This, however, is not the case.
Attorney-General Power, in introducing
into the Assembly early this month a
bill to “tighten up the security provisions
of the electoral law to prevent the im-
proper use of ballot-papers,” told the
House the real reason. It is the Common-
wealth rolls that are at fault —they are
“the .worst in Australia.”
A purist might object that as there are
only two electoral rolls in Australia —
the Commonwealth and the Queensland
rolls —Mr. Power was guilty of a gram-
matical solecism in his use of the super-
lative, but possibly he was thinking of
the Commonwealth roll as being divided
into six separate rolls, one for each State.
In that case what he was really saying
was that the Federal roll for Queensland
was the worst in Australia, and that seems
rather an unfair attack on the officials
of the Commonwealth Electoral Office in
Brisbane, as Mr. Power has no way of
checking the goodness or badness of the
Federal rolls for the other States.
The Attorney-General’s remark was
made when he refused to accept an
Opposition amendment that Queensland
should use the Commonwealth rolls.
Opposition-leader Nicklin said the bill
was designed to close loopholes for fraud
which were relatively unimportant, but
made no attempt to block up loopholes
where greater opportunities occurred.
Under the new bill it would still be
possible “to stuff the rolls and for ghosts
to walk on election-days.” The amend-
ment was defeated by 39 votes to 25,
A few days after the argument in the
Assembly about 200 citizens from com-
mercial and professional circles in Bris-
bane tendered a dinner to Premier Gair
to congratulate him on his appointment
as Premier. The atmosphere was thick
with cordiality and good-fellowship and
the guest-of-honor heard such tributes as
Mr. Gair is a man of high principles, and
if his future is based on these principles
he may well be the best Premier Queens-
land has ever had.
Another speaker, appealing for more co-
operation between men of opposing
political faiths, said,
We are all Queenslanders, and after the
elections let us look at it like that, not
that we are Labor or Liberal.
That was a suggestion well worthy of
consideration, but there are many Queens-
landers who would feel far more inclined
to follow it if they could feel sure that
their elections were conducted in the
fairest possible way, free from any sus-
picion of corruption.
Mr. Gair, as “a man of high principles,”
should realise that so much suspicion has
been cast on his State electoral rolls that
no amount of patching-up can conceal
the taint.
Laughter in Pusan.
“Ek D.”: The horde of grumblers at
Australian conditions who sit round
anticipating “the depression” and moan-
ing about the price of butter would bene-
fit by a short course in living conditions
in some Asiatic cities —Pusan on its
beautiful bay, one of the main ports
serving the Korean war, would be a good
place. There live the fag-end of the
3.900.000 refugees who are being looked
after by the Eighth Army’s UNCACK
organisation—as far as they can be
looked after.
Pusan was a prosperous city of about
300.000 in the days before the Pacific
War. After the outbreak of the Korean
war it became choked with 1,700,000
people, mostly homeless and a very large
proportion foodless. Today the mob has
been thinned down to about 1,200,000,
mostly helpless women and old people
and others not readily assimilable or
self-supporting. The wide streets pre-
sent a dreadful picture. They are not
cleaned ; after rain water lies about in
sheets. The odd trams on certain routes
look forlorn and futile.
There is no such thing as a home in
Pusan. What is a shop in business hours
is a sleeping-place at night for as many
as can huddle into its shelter out of the
bitter cold. And every hovel is a sales-
man’s stall. Every wall has mounds of
shivering humans packed under its lee.
There is no sewerage service in a modem
sense. There are no baths. Family
possessions mostly have to be reduced to
what a nomad group can carry during the
day because there is scarcely a repository
in which the average citizen can store
even a pocket-handkerchief.
The water-supply is something like that
of Alice Springs in 1924 —the population
lines up in queues at any handy pump or
gets what it can out of the puddle in the
gutter. The only time when there is a
chance of getting any washing done is at
night when the crush is thinned out a
little by sleep.
For tens of thousands among a popula-
tion the size of Melbourne’s there is no
resting-place but the curb, which is lined
with women and children sitting in the
icy cold wind throughout the day and
sometimes throughout the night. The
press of humanity is seeded through with
more tens of thousands of orphans or
detached mites who have been separated
from their parents in the stampede from
the battle-fronts. There are about
600.000 youngsters in Pusan, some of
them beggars, though these are being put
under care as fast as the task can be
accomplished.
Inflation, of course, bears no com-
parison with anything except German
inflation in the early ’twenties at its worst.
But the extraordinary feature of this
huge, wet, icy camp which calls itself a
city is the cheerfulness of it all. The pre-
dominating sound is laughter. The
children playing with pebbles or keeping
themselves warm with hopscotch, their
favorite game; the women gossiping on
the kerb ; the old gentlemen driving their
little Siberian horses in their quaint low
carts which look as if they had been
invented by a dachshund; the carriers
bearing giant loads on their curious “A”
frames all seem to bubble over with mirth
as if life were a good joke.
And even allowing that the Koreans
are the “Irish of the East” they seem to
have very little to laugh about.
The traveller returning from the East
to Australia feels when he lands in his
own country that everybody here has a
chip on his shoulder.


m
g m
m
S3*
mm
■Hi
-j.
Your A.N.A. Hostess is a Trained Officer. ..
Young ladies ... charming ... friendly .:: eager to help. Your A.N.A.
Hostess, thoroughly trained, ensures your every comfort when you wing
your way by Australia's most experienced airline . . . A.N.A.
WING YOUR WAY WITH
sd
AUSTRALIAN
Branches
NATIONAL AIRWAYS PTY
and Agents throughout the Commonwealth
LTD.
POLITCAL POINTS
In beero veritas —but not much.
Pilot McGrrrrr can hardly be blamed
for it, but it seems singularly appropriate
that the first public statement he was
called upon to make as president of the
Maritime Services Board should be an
announcement of steep increases in
storage rates for goods left on wharves or
in wharf sheds.
McGrrrrr’s defection has left the
Cahill Government in N.S.W. without a
majority, and until a by-election is held
it dares not accept the invitation of Treatt
and Bruxner to meet Parliament and
explain the new Electoral Act Amend-
ment Bill. Such a meeting might resolve
itself into a funeral service—unless, of
course, Mr, Martin, Q.C., could raise a
point of order which could lead the
Speaker to throw a few Opposition mem-
bers out in error, in the democratic style
of last session.
On his retirement from die Chief
Justiceship of the High Court Sir John
Latham said, among other things, “When
I die, ‘Section 92’ will be found written
across my heart.” Signed “Evatt”?
J. A, Ferguson is a man of many parts,
but that part of him which belongs to the
nineteen-thirties must have received a
severe jolt when the 1952 portion re-
marked that the decision of the railway-
workshop strikers to continue the strike
amounted to “anarchy that must and
will be combated.” But several parts of
his past experience contributed to his
prophecy concerning the outcome of the
strike:
The fitters cannot win. When the final
decision is to be made they will not decide
the issue. Such a decision will be pre-
determined by the Communist party and
handed down to the party-controlled officials
responsible for placing the fitters in their
present unenviable predicament.
That is undoubtedly true, but part of the
blame for the “predicament” lies with
those “Labor” leaders who, while pro-
fessing to support arbitration, have
bitterly attacked the Galvin award and
encouraged men to take action outside
the court to obtain increased margins.
Put it to Half-Premier McDonald’s
credit that his opposition to a State lot-
tery in Victoria remains unshaken, despite
the barrage of demands for it from vocal
dimwits of all kinds, including a once-
leading Melbourne newspaper.
Continuing its policy of using school-
children as distributors of political propa-
ganda the N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federa-
tion has, through its members, given the
youngsters petition-forms to take home.
The problem is posed photographically as
a simple choice between overcrowded old
schools and new ones with ample space,
but signatories are asked to pgit their
names to a demand on the Federal
Government for an immediate loan to
the States of £lOO million for buildings
and capital expenditure and £2O million
for current exes.
The real purpose inspiring at least one
section —a large one —of those behind the
stunt is revealed by remarks made by
S. P. Lewis, Communist president of the
Teachers’ Federation, at the Sydney
Town Hall meeting which launched the
petition. Quoting Fadden as saying that
an increasing proportion of labor,
materials and industrial capacity must be
diverted from civil production to defence
jobs, Lewis said;
The children of Australia are to make
sacrifices to meet this policy. Surely this is
a challenge to the people of Australia and
a demand that they must defend the Aus-
tralian people against this form of war?
Against what form of war?
The present defence policy of Aus-
tralia, as of other Western Powers, is
directed against the threat of Soviet
aggression; it is therefore anathema to
Australian Communists and fellow-travel-
lers, Unable to admit this outright they
shelter behind pleas for worthy causes
such as education, housing, health and
so on, knowing that extra money can
only be found for these purposes by cut-
ting down on defence. Schoolteachers
who give their support to this cause are
working for the Reds, whether they know
it or not.
On Friday it was announced that in
the postal ballot for election of Federa-
tion officers, Lewis had lost the job he
“Thank you, George—or is it Peter?”
has held for six years. Sanity is appar-
ently returning to the Teachers’ Federa-
tion. Lewis, presumably, will return to
the classroom; it is to be hoped not as
a teacher of “social studies.”
Theme-song for the Republican party
—or some of it: Now is the Eisenhower.
A Labor peer. Lord Ogmore, got up in
Westminster the other day and urged
that the Queensland-British Food
Corporation fiasco at Peak Downs (Q.),
on which nearly £600,000 has been lost
in a couple of years, should be continued.
He called it a “pilot” scheme and excused
its losses on the ground that there is no
easy road to “British Commonwealth
development.” This ignores the real
issue, which is that the big farm, staffed
with highly-paid workers and equipped
with battalions of tractors, cultivators,
motor-lorries, and seed-drills, and with
credit resources beyond those of any
ordinary farm or farming company, and
functioning at a time when all land pro-
ducts command record prices, is bung
from any practical point of view.
Civilisation comes to Adelaide. Power-
rationing is now in force in the South
Australian capital, the metropolitan area
being divided into zones on the Sydney
model so as to equalise blackouts.
There’s trouble among the animal-
lovers of New South Wales, Clive Evatt,
president of the R.S.P.C.A., having
sacked the secretary of the society, T.
McGorien, who refuses to consider him-
self sacked. McGorien’s story is that
after he had sent Evatt a telegram con-
gratulating him on his appointment as
Minister for Housing Clive dismissed him
and sent around two former inspectors of
the society to take over his duties. He
intends to stick to his job until the coun-
cil of the society decides to remove him.
According to a former president of the
R.S.P.C.A Evatt was acting within his
rights, because the minutes say “The
president has full power and is the
supreme being between council meetings.”
What, no capital letters?
From the pious sayings of the self-
haloed J. J. Cahill, “Labor” Premier of
N.S.W.:
This Government has been in office 11
years, and no breath of suspicion has ever
touched this administration.
Cahill would scarcely know if it did.
Even the molten breath of a 7000 h.p. jet-
engine wouldn’t make itself felt through
the cast-iron political hides of the present
N. S, Wales Ministry.
Mrs. Braddock, the O.S. member for
Liverpool Exchange in the House of
Commons and a former president of the
Liverpool Trades and Labor Council,
achieved fame late last month as the first
woman to be heaved out by the Speaker
in a British Parliament. The lady’s
patience deserted her after trying to catch
the Speaker’s eye for seven hours, and
when she refused to sit down the Speaker
named her and she was suspended on a
division, was ordered to withdraw from
the Chamber and, announcing that she
“did so with pleasure,” strode haughtily
into outer darkness.
Experience of the just-finished bushfire
season in Victoria indicated that not only
the picnicker and the motorist are hard
to educate in the civic duty of not starting
fires in the open, A photographic recon-
naissance by an Air Force plane over
one of the hardest-hit districts showed
that several of the worst fires began inside
the railway-fences.
With the coming-into-force of the
Peace Treaty all nations are busy appoint-
ing ambassadors to Tokyo. Britain has
appointed Sir Esler Dening, a giant of a
man physically and mentally, bom in
Tokyo and acknowledged as probably the
best European authority on Far Eastern
affairs, and particularly on the Man-
churian question. A student at Queens-
land University when World War I broke
out, he served in the AJ.F, in the 31st
Battalion. Australia has also appointed
an ambassador —Mr. Ronald Walker —
an economist, of course, with little
experience of diplomacy and less of the
Far East. Colonel Hodgson, who has
established himself well with the Japanese,
comes home.
Fowler of the Metal-Trades Employers’
Association wants to know why the N. S.
Wales Labor Council doesn’t show the
same energy towards settling strikes in
metal-workshops as it does those in the
railway-workshops, since the same issues
are involved — Galvin award and margins.
Really it’s quite simple. AH the em-
ployers have to do is show that the strikes
are endangering the existence of the N. S.
Wales “Labor” Government and the
council will become most energetic. So
long as the only sufferers are the com-
panies, the general public and the pros-
perity of the country, the Trades Hall
can’t be expected to worry.
Beer as a draw-line: —
The wave of perjury-confessions which swept
across the N. S. Wales royal commission on
liquor receded last week after Sammy Leo and
Azzalin Orlando Romano had added themselves
to the list of those who admitted lying on oath
to the commission. Lee’s admission was
unqualified; he had paid blackmarlcet prices
for beer to enable him to continue getting his
supply and he had lied because he “didn’t want
to be an informer.” Romano’s confession was
not quite so explicit. He admitted that Mack-
market prices had been paid for beer for Ms
restaurant and his Wagga hotel. When pre-
viously in the box on February 20 he had
denied this; he had been referring to prices
for his current purchases. Earlier, he had paid
higher prices, but had stopped doing so because
the beer was costing more than he coufal sell
it for. His manager, Bland, had made the
arrangements. Romano said he was unaware,
until he read it in the paper, of Biand’s claim
to have paid out of his own pocket £3O to £75
a week for high-price beer for the Colony Club
and had borrowed from Cavill (the supplier)
£2BOO. He did not think the company should
recoup Biand for his outlay, because it was
illegal.
Charles James Valentine and James Joseph
Lynch, owners of the Commodore night-dub,
said they had been up in Brisbane for 10 weeks
under the names of Kevelak and James.
Valentine said he had gone away because he
did not wish to give evidence; from what he
had read in Brisbane papers he realised that
both he and Lynch were required by the comr
mission. Lynch said that when he went to
Brisbane he had known that Valentine was
wanted by the commission, but not that he
himself was. He had not found that out until
after his return. Both Valentine and Lynch
denied ever having paid blackmarket prices for
beer. Lynch said he had nothing to do with
the selling of beer. He had never had any
transactions with Sammy Lee, Russell Day or
Galea. Questioned about beer sold to Frederick
Catlan, Valentine said he had sold it at the
price he paid for it. He had never paid more
than the correct price. Catlan told the com-
mission he had bought bottled beer from
Valentine every week last year from May to
October. He had paid the fixed price. He
had sold the beer, about 1600 dozen, through
his shop at Earlwood at what it cost him. He
had kept no record of the sales and had made
no profit. He didn’t see anything amazing in
that; beer was “quite a draw-fine,”


mm iPit
*/p
ANP -
/y
ANX WtTH
ON 'THEM/ /VUSS?
THE HE-MAN.


Here's the low-down on the
successful ALL-CROP Harvester
WSm
yz&ryr. ArAr- ifr®*
&&ss&£s Ypy&'fr *'&#%&
„'/■ t/ .'.:/* / i //''/ /.?/<v 'a'/U/sssC"///' , ' / /
W-M
f *'SS'y- Y/?/;'?.
■/. sty - S ',/*,'/,,
mm
'''s/frsSAu'
l ikwfflw.
//*/:&
W.h
W;
m.
//A
m
m
m
m
m
i f n
■PH
m
m
:
CSy
'Wmmfmm
*-*>i
- /
"*• .J&r
4**
U* o *}
TOP NOTCH SHELLING
This big five-foot cylinder is the heart
of the ALL-CROP Harvester. The long
spiralled rubber-faced cylinder bars
reduce crackage and provide ample
shelling capacity for the heaviest of
crops.
Rubber-against-rubber shell-
ing contacts in the ALL-
CROP Harvester give a
natural shelling action, just as
you rub out a head of grain
in the palm of your hand.
The crop falls on a wide,
rubberised draper and rides
straight to the full-width,
spiral bar cylinder in a thin
stream just as it grew in the
field. Rubber-cushioned
cylinder bars rub out the
grain or seeds against rubber
concaves.
This same gentle handling of
over 100 grains, seeds and
beans makes the All-Crop
what it is . . . truly an
ALL-CROP Harvester.
M
ALUS CHALMERS
T..R-A CTO R O »
N.S.W.: Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street, Homebush. VICTORIA: Mitchell & Co.
Pty. Ltd., Footscray, Victoria. S. AUST.: John Shearer & Sons Pty. Ltd., Kilkenny. W. AUST.: Westralian
Farmers Co-operative Lid., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart,
■ll/83.31
Business. Rollery. Etc.
The Sick Stockmarket
After a severe fall in several
front-line stocks on April 6, in
which B.H.P. sold down to
40s. 6d., Burns Philp to 595.,
Tooth to 645. 9d., Dunlop to
275. 6d., C.S.R. to £47 155.,
Henry Jones to 50s. and General
Industries to 38 s., the Aus-
tralian shareraarkets showed
a sharp upward trend in
the two days before the
Exchanges closed for Easter.
The strengthening coincided with
Treasurer Fadden’s announce-
ment that no depression was in
sight and with the exit of the
15th Security Loan from the
market, where its weight had
been felt for some time, and
which even the photographs of
some of its sponsors didn’t
lighten.
Whilst it is almost impossible
to forecast market trends in the
present state of financial read-
justment, it can be said that the
culminating fall in the market
last week was so severe that a
great deal of the “air” that has
existed under share prices for
so long has now disappeared,
and in many cases prices are in
sight of, or below, disclosed net
tangible asset values. Bank of
N, S. Wales £2O shares at
£35 (lowest point) last week,
for example, compared with
net tangible assets of £36 2s. 3d.
And most of those assets are in
premises and the like, worth
vastly more than their book-
values, though perhaps restricted
in earning-power by rent-
regulation.
Bradford Cotton Mills was
another stock which could show
net assets of 31s. 7d. per ord.
share when its scrip was at
30s. 6d. And Bradford, like the
Bank of N. S. Wales, has had no
revaluation of assets in post-war
years. Robert Reid could show
435. Id. behind each ord, share
when they were at 235., and
Sargood Gardiner 375. sd. when
its were at 18s. Henry Jones —
a most conservative concern—
had 525. Bd. in the window to
support a lowest price of 50s.
Edwards Dunlop, an equally
canny enterprise, offered 535. 2d.
for 525. on the market. Burns
Philp showed assets of 51s. per
fully-paid share when they were
changing hands at 595., and inner
reserves in the B.P. holding of
Queensland Insurance shares
would more than replace any
“air” that there might seem to
be under that market-price.
David Jones ords. at 355. had
assets of 465. Bd. behind them ;
Howard Smith’s at 28s. had
375. 9d,
The investigation can be
carried further by anyone who
chooses to do so. In most of
the foregoing cases there had
been no revaluation of assets in
the last 20 years—unlike a
number of the newer listings. In
times when inflation is still the
chief economic force to be
reckoned with, the fact that it is
possible to buy into old-
established enterprises at or near
the book-value of the assets,
with all inner reserves thrown
in, is something to ponder
seriously upon. Though assets
are, in the long run, worth only
what they will earn, the long
view is what investors should
always keep in mind, and there
is no question but that a solid
backing of asset-values in rela-
tion to trade offering is what
gives a business profit-earning
strength. Strong asset-backing
means a comparatively small
amount of capital to spread
dividends over, which, in turn,
means a high dividend potential.
Though there has been some
recovery from the depths to
which the sharemarket sank last
week* there are still many con-
cerns which can show net
tangible assets to a greater value
than the market-price for their
shares. Each case, of course,
needs to be considered on its
merits, and it should be remem-
bered that it has been the
practice, even when the market
was at its peak last year, to put
a price on the ords. of Robert
Reid and Sargood Gardiner that
"Ask who's calling , Cocky."
was below their respective asset-
values. But in looking at the
position generally it can be seen
that at present prices many
favorable opportunities for in-
vestment in Australian industries
now exist, and this is often so
even where some “air” appears
to exist between asset-values and
share-prices. Often the earning-
power disclosed by such
concerns indicates that those
asset-values could be stretched a
good way without breaking
anything.
Which brings us to a theme
oft repeated in these pages. And
it is that the permissible rate
of earning in essential industry
must be allowed to come more
into line with present-day value
of assets. In the principal State
of the Commonwealth we have
the spectacle of the N. S. Wales
Government allowing Metro-
politan Cement, a newcomer to
the industry, to charge
£l2 13s. 3d. a ton for its cement,
against £8 Bs. a ton permitted the
old-established concerns. Assum-
ing that it is the high post-war
cost of equipping a new cement
enterprise that has made it neces-
sary to grant a special price to
Metropolitan Cement, it is by
no means fair that shareholders
in older enterprises should be
compelled to accept dividends
that do not make similar allow-
ance for the depreciation of
money that has occurred over
the past dozen years.
Industry generally in Aus-
tralia has not been allowed to
make enough profit since the end
of World War 11. And parti-
cularly it has not been allowed
to make enough tax-free pro-
vision for depreciation of assets.
Whilst it may be contended with
a good deal of justice that
sections of Australian industry
have become lazy and inefficient,
it can be contended with equal
force that price-control, carried
too far, has tended to make them
so. The greatest efficiency will
come to our industries from
greater competition among them.
And competition is not
encouraged by heavy-handed—
and often outrageously unjust—
price-control and taxation that
frequently bites at the same
income two or three times.
The present rather severe
financial readjustment is aimed
at checking inflation. It has had
a truly devastating effect on
share-prices. But the position
should tend to stabilise itself as
excessive stocks are unloaded by
warehouses and the situation
generally becomes more liquid.
Provided that the socialistic
attack on private - enterprise
equities is eventually held and
repulsed—the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment in particular has still to
be accounted for by the free-
enterprise crusaders, and the
Federal Government has the
embarrassing legacy of the
Welfare State on its hands —•
there should, let it be repeated, a
great future in front of most
essential Australian industries,
especially where they have shown
signs of holding their own with
similar industries in other parts
of the world in spite of the
enormous political handicaps
that have been carried since
1942.
Imports and “Liquidity”
To the end of March
Australia’s trade deficit was
£338 million —that is for
the first nine months of
the financial year. The deficit
for March (£2O million) was the
lowest monthly figure so far
recorded during the period;
exports were above average at
£66 million, and imports (£B6
million) were down considerably
on recent levels. Total imports
during the nine months were
£844 million and exports were
£506 million, compared with
£667 million and £523 million
respectively in the previous
period.
Imports are now falling off.
and exports are rising somewhat.
However, this is bound to be a
year of much lower export
values because of a smaller wool
clip, lower wool prices and the
decline in wheat production and
exports by the dairying industry.
The Australian wool cheque
has dropped from £351.8 million
for the eight months to the end
of February, 1951, to £212
million for the corresponding
portion of the present season.
Volume of wool exports has
fallen from 676 million pounds’
weight to 561 million pounds in
the comparative periods.
Butter exports are over 80 p.c.
lower during the part of the
financial year so far elapsed.
Wheat exports are down to a
lesser degree.
High on the imports list have
been machinery, metals and
tools. This category includes
motor-cars, but also much of the
plant that has been going into
factory expansion. Textiles have
also been at record level, but
are now being severely curbed
under import restrictions.
The fall in Australia’s London
funds has been arrested. During
the week to April 2 the decline
was £6.7 million, to £314.8
million, in the Commonwealth
Bank’s holding of “gold and
balances abroad.” In the preced-
ing week the movement was less
than a million.
The National Bank of Aus-
tralasia, commenting on the rise
in stocks carried by most
merchants and traders in the
Commonwealth, speaks of it as
the “most significant change that
has emerged throughout Aus-
tralia’s internal trade in recent
months.” It adds that the rise
in stocks involves additional, if
unwilling, investment amounting
to many millions of pounds in
goods which remain inactive in
traders’ stores. Consequent loss
of liquidity in commercial circles
has produced far-reaching
effects. The National offers the
opinion that sales will be main-
tained at fairly healthy levels,
but traders who hope that their
slow-moving stocks will soon be
cleared at existing prices by a
marked revival of consumer buy-
ing are likely to be disappointed.
Import-cuts by themselves, says
the bank, are unlikely to bring
an early reduction of retail and
wholesale stocks or a quick
restoration of liquidity to Aus-
tralian traders.
N.Z. and World Bank
The flirtation, or courtship,
that has been in progress for
some time between the World
Bank and New Zealand’s Hol-
land Government hasn’t yet
stirred up much enthusiasm
among Maorilanders for Bretton
Woods membership, and as the
suitors have been keeping as dis-
creetly out of sight as possible
it’s uncertain what the next
move will be.
President Eugene Black, head
of the bank, made an open pro-
posal of marriage, but Mr. Hol-
land either wasn’t able to con-
quer the old shyness or was
afraid of what the people might
think. At any rate he showed
no disposition to consent,
although he was keen to be on
the friendliest of terms. Mr.
Black told M.L. it would be “a
good risk” from the bank’s view-
point, and there was clearly a
warm welcome ready. That was
as far as he could go.
At that moment a senior ex-
pert of the International
Monetary Fund, Dr. A. G. B.
Fisher, ex-N.Z. professor of
economics, arrived out of the
blue to continue the suit where
Mr. Black left off. But Mr.
Holland still sat firmly on the
fence, and interest waned. A
few diehard opponents of
“dollar-domination” tried to
rouse Maorilanders’ feelings in
defence of their sovereign cur-
rency rights, but these were
mainly voices in the wilderness.
The rank-and-file took it for
granted the issue would be de-
cided by the demands of the big
£3O million Murupara newspnnt-
and-pulp scheme, which calls tor
dollars, and it shouldn’t be long
now before the answer is
known.


< ~
t
m
f
\\
sdf
sd
fsd
Sliilil
f
Consider the many
advantages that
come your way
immediately you
embark on a service
career. Instantly,
you gain a new sense
of pride—a pride
that comes with
doing the job that is vital to Australia. And
it’s a life you enjoy right from the start.
At once your future prospects brighten.
The immense range of specialist activities
in the modern Navy, Army and Air Force
provide scope for every kind of talent.
Guaranteed continuity of engagement and
generous retirement benefits assure economic
security. A Serviceman can retire on a
pension or gratuity while he is still young
enough to enjoy it.
The generous pay advantages allow the
Serviceman to save while he serves. An
18-year-old Serviceman who has completed
his basic recruit training (normally 3 to
6 months) earns over £9/10/- a week and,
in addition, his food, accommodation,
medical and dental attention, and an initial
clothing issue are provided free. There are
also special extra allowances for married
men.
JOIN
THE NAVY
THE ARMY or
THE AIR FORCE
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide; Richards Building,
99 Currie St. In Perth: 84 King St. In Hobart: Franklin
Sq. In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
mi.nzM
Essential Service
Essential to trade development is a Banking
Service, both efficient and prepared to meet each
new opportunity.
Built on the resources and experience of two
Banks, each of which has contributed to Aus-
tralia’s growth for more than a century, A.N.Z.
Bank services are expressly designed to assist in
the promotion of trade.
Today, A.N.Z. Bank is preparing to meet the
needs of tomorrow.
A-N-Z
w
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA. Established 1835.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA. Est. 1837.
Over 700 branches and agencies throughout Aus-
tralia, and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world.
Have you looked over
your will lately?
TF you have not revised
your Will to meet to-
day’s conditions, the con-
sequences may be serious
for someone who depends
on you. Your responsibility
to that someone is too im-
portant to justify delaying
until some tomorrow that may never
come.
Why not have a confidential talk with one
of our Senior Officers on the subject of
the appointment of the Company as your
Executor and Trustee—alone or jointly
with a relative or friend.
He will help you to provide for the
efficient and economical settlement of
your Estate, also for its efficient manage-
ment thereafter. The final step of having
your Solicitor redraw your Will should
then be a simple matter.
If you would have particulars of the ser-
vices offered by the Company write (or
ring 80377) and make an appointment.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE AGENT UNDER POWER Off
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDEISj
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £12,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA W.iGGA, TAMWORTH AND ORANGE
&
m
Mi
kh'fi
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Spring has burst upon us with
unabated frenzy. Its impact was
so severe and out-of-character
that the “Daily Mail” commented
editorially: “In the immortal
words of the Australian bard,
‘Spring has sprung.’ ” This was
on Boat-race Day, and a violent
change from the setting of the
previous Saturday, when women
in spring clothes sat upon the
river-bank watching some 200
eights competing for higher
places in the Head of the River
race. Now snow was whirling
and piling, and a blizzard raged
about the chimney-pots.
It is a tribute to the crews’
watermanship that they more
than managed to keep their frail
craft afloat. Engineering science,
with all its great resources, was
less successful: the 8.8. C.
(sound) launch conked out and
T.V. cameras seized-up because
of the heavy snowflakes. Yet
the race was no cautious strong
paddle. In fact, it promises to
be the finest ever.
The four-year story which is
ended by an Oxford recovery
should become a classic in boys’
literature, with the Oxford
stroke, Christopher Davidge, as
hero. In his first year (1949) he
lost by an canvas ; in his second,
illness kept him out of the race ;
in his third the boat sank and
then lost by 12 lengths; and in
his fourth he had to fight not
only for revenge but also for
his place as stroke. Having
regained that place, as it were
in midstream, he had to restore
some loss of Dark Blue con-
fidence and, finally, to give to the
men behind him that inspiring
leadership which gallantly won
them the race in the last seconds.
And this in a blinding, drench-
ing blizzard!
British Textiles
The heart-searchings and real
anxieties which have, in the
space of a few months, trans-
formed the textile industries
from understaffed prosperity to
ruinous short-time seem to be
centred mainly in East Lan-
cashire. While anything but
comfortable, Yorkshire is
inclined to believe that the worst
may have passed. This view
would seem to depend upon the
hard-headed realism and per-
spicacity of the individual
merchant. All must have suf-
fered losses because of the fall
in wool prices, but those (and,
with painful memories of the
early ’thirties, they were many)
who foresaw the recession and
bought cautiously are not unduly
depressed about the future.
What, in fact, they say, is this:
“There’s no hope that Britain
will ever again supply the greater
world with textiles because the
world is manufacturing its own
goods. Therefore the industry
must find its level. But given
stabilisation of wool prices, the
industry’s experience and the
skill of its operatives will go a
long way towards its prosperity,
if at a lower level. And it will
probably mean a change in
standards, with the extremes of
expensive, high-quality cloth and
cheap, near-shoddy cloth.”
Cotton, on the other hand,
has suffered more severely from
the suspension of orders. No
sense of inevitableness, of
realism or of the reasons behind
the Australian import-cuts in any
way softens their blow. When
times are good it is hard to
believe that they will not con-
tinue so, especially when there
are more jobs than can be filled
and when conditions of work
are becoming ever easier.
Nor is responsible comment
encouraging. The “Manchester
Guardian” blames the Labor
Government for lack of fore-
sight, points to a world-wide
overproduction of textiles and
the peed to conform to “a great
structural change in the world
market for textiles.”
The all-night debate in Par-
liament was for the. most part
realistic and objective. The
President of the Board of Trade
offered no soft words of com-
placency. Answering the cry
(from the heart, it is true) that
the Government should “do
something about it,” he made
plain that he could pull nothing
out of a bag, since defence needs
were small in relation to the
capacity of the industry. It was
“the worst thing” for Canberra
and London to blame each
other.
And the situation remains that
employers are reluctant to part
with skilled weavers. They, in
turn, are mainly married women
living near to the mills who
won’t seek other employment.
But mills can’t hope to run
indefinitely, working alternate
days at a loss of £lOOO or more
a week, in the hope that condi-
tions will improve. Transfer to
defence work seems, at present,
to be the only solution.
Teulonism in Toto
The music-lover whose appre-
ciative capacity lies between the
easily-understood and the
forbiddingly - esoteric is well
catered for nowadays. Thanks to
adventurous chamber orchestras,
long-playing records and the
diligent research of musicologists
he has ample opportunity of
enjoying his Vivaldi, Boccherini,
Cimaroso and Cherubini as well
as the neglected works of the
established masters.
It is doubtful, though, whether
the same enjoyment extends to
performances of disinterred pro-
gramme and operatic music. The
mention of Alban Berg, for in-
stance, provokes a response.
One thinks of “Wozzeck,” but
does not know what or who it
was ; there is a vague hint of
sensation and outcry but noth-
ing more than that. Covent
Garden Opera Company have
cleared up these uncertainties by
presenting the work for the first
time in England and in English.
One eager witness can only re-
cord the rather obvious reaction
that he hopes it will be the last.
Wozzeck, it seems, is a bat-
man, a self-pitying moron who
blunders from animalism to
sultry murder and stiff-necked
suicide against a background of
besotted decadence which, in
performance, recalls the heavy
theatrical orgies of the early
silent films. Altogether it is a
turgid affair, overlaid with
Teutonic intenseness. Berg is
said to have planned each of the
15 scenes as a separate musical
pastiche so that, when fitted to-
gether, they would coalesce into
a work of art. But the touch is
as heavy as the intention.
The orchestra energetically
fulfilled the demands of both
the immensely difficult music and
of the distinguished guest-
conductor, Erich Kleiber. A
frightening crescendo that would
have made Rossini feel small
lingers in the memory, but the
whole effect was, as one bucolic
character affirmed, unutterably
“drrreary.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WINABLES INGKS"
Sfi if 3 jC
“Findy”: For the benefit of those who
want to know, Ahimsa Week falls in
the first week in May and has done so
since 1925, when its founder, W. S.
Fernando, of Panandura, Ceylon, organised
the Ahimsa movement “on a minute
scale.” For some years now Mr. Fer-
nando has been sending me literature on
the subject of Ahimsa, and as the latest
batch includes a letter headed “My Last
Appeal” I feel I should at least accede
to that part of his request which asks me
to “write an article of not more than
300 words,” even though modesty pre-
cludes me from obliging him further
by sending “a copy of your photo to
reach me before May 31, 1952.” Mr.
Fernando’s creed may be summarised
thus: In a world clamoring for peace
and happiness, false theories of economics
advocate animal exploitation, hence Gov-
ernments permit slaughtering animals on
economic grounds. Killing animals
makes man cruel. Eliminate it and you
get peace . . . But to return to Ahimsa
DRjv/e eg
youttcUeP
w
“Next time you forget the jack man can change the tyre yourself!”
Week before my 300 words are exhausted.
In Ahimsa Week one should observe three
precepts:
1. To abstain from killing.
2. To take only vegetarian diet.
3. To give rest to animals from 11.30
a.m. to 1 p.m. and to abstain from travel-
ling in vehicles drawn by animals during
that time.
I think I can manage No. 1, provided
mosquitoes and other insects don’t make
me forget myself; I’m not so sure about
No. 2, though if the price of meat stays
put I should be ( all right. But I can
promise to observe No. 3 to the letter.
even if every hansom-cab in Sydney
offers its services every lunch-hour,
“Oliver Filter”: It worries me not that
my wife has yet to forgive me for the
horrified alacrity with which I spat out
the first mouthful of her day’s devoted
toil in the kitchen. It surprises me not
that the women’s magazine which printed
the complicated recipe under some high-
falutin title in doubtful French and with
lavish photographs in color was appar-
ently ignorant of its true character. But
it amazes me that, apparently, an
analytical genius has at last arisen to
solve, the greatest top-secret of the war —
the tecipe for M. and V.
sk * % *
“X.S.”: I have long wondered why
lawyers, especially judges, always have
to possess a sense of humor. In con-
ventional biographies they’re invariably
credited with one, even if they haven’t
got it, and when a counsel or judge writes
his memoirs these are generally provided
with a liberal sprinkling of forensic wit.
The latest example is Owen Dixon, new
Chief Justice, who, according to the
“Age,” is, unlike his predecessor, John
Latham, whose wit was dry and
academic, a master of the “quip brisque,”
enlightening the dry-as-dust arguments of
constitutional quibble with “Hogarthian
humor.” That is all fight, I suppose,
when the victim is an impersonal thing
like a constitution, but I can’t help
wondering how these witty judges get on
when they are dealing with a man who
is to be hanged. Almost all litigation is
a tragedy for someone, in most cases —
divorce, for instance —for both parties,
and why this tradition has grown up that
the most brilliant quality the legal pro-
fession can have is verbal clowning is
beyond my understanding.
* * * ♦
“Spasebo”: A story which comes from
Turin, Italy, could have been lifted
straight from the Decameron. A wealthy
old merchant had a young, beautiful,
raven-haired wife named Elena, and Elena
had a lover. The old boy became interested
in spiritualism and hypnotism and was
delighted to leam that the young man had
hypnotic powers and could put him to
sleep and summon Napoleon, Columbus,
Dante and other great men to speak
through the old boy’s mouth when he was
sleeping. The seances had been going on
for a long time when the police ,broke in
under the direction of Amadio’s wife,
Anna. They found the husband blissfully
sleeping in one room in his villa and the
raven-haired Elena and Amadio wide
awake in another. Amadio was arrested,
but what charge was laid against him is
not reported.
“Drake”: “Rooster’s” par. (B. 19/3/’52)
about the “shell-shocked” stutterer re-
minds me of Yank. He blew into our
scrub-fellers’ camp early,in 1914 and, in
an asthmatic sort of exaggerated whisper
which we soon learnt was his natural way
of speaking, put it on the boss for a
“jahb.” The boss asked his name and
he gave it. “But just call me Yank,” he
said, “Everybody calls me Yank, but
of course,” and his whisper was charged
with unspeakable scorn, “I’m no goddam
Yankee. I come from Pensecola, Flah-
nda.” The months rolled by, war broke
out and the next time ! saw Yank ,was in
1918 at Tidworth Barracks, England,
where he was in a cushy base job. He
said he had collected a “Blighty” in
France, but when he had recovered and
was due to rejoin his battalion they
wouldn’t let him go. “The goddam
quack told -me I was gassed,” he
whispered. “I told him ‘No, Sir, I’m all
right. I’m not gassed. I’ve never been
gassed.’ But he wouldn’t believe me.
fust laughed and sdid T admire your spirit.
old man, but we can’t send you back
like that.’ I couldn’t convince him that
I’ve always talked like this, so I suppose
I’m stuck here for the duration.”
* * * *
“Melb’n”; A start has been made with
the Olympic Games in Melbourne, a
brass-plate having budded forth on a
Little Collins-street building bearing the
legend “The Organising Committee for
the XVlth Olympiad, Melbourne, 1956,
registered office.” X sincerely trust that
it,doesn’t end up as did the League of
Nations, which, when I last walked along
Queen-street, was still represented by a
“Yes, sonny, plants are like people—some get blighted
shiny metal notice stating that “The
League of Nations’ Literature Division”
could be found on the sixth floor.
* * * ♦
“Macnell”: If “Jasby” saw his Manly
ferry secured to a pub in Broken Hill (B.
9/4/’52), he would not be more surprised
than were Spike and I the day we climbed
Lizard Island, north of Cooktdwn on the
reef. Cruiser Canberra, bound for Rabaul
with r Lord and Lady Gowrie aboard to
see what Matmpi had done to the town
in the 1937 eruption, had anchored in
the lee of the island to land liberty-men.
We decided to climb the humpback
ashore, for from its top Cook and his
navigator had looked down and dis-
covered the narrow, deep-blue channel
through the coral now named Cook’s
Passage. A cairn of stones marks the
spot where they stood. Half-way up the
stony slope we looked back to where
Canberra lay below like a silver model
pinned to vividly-blue velvet. Suddenly
Spike yelled: “Hey! Do you see what
I see?” He pointed to starb’d, to where
a queer-shaped craft (for those northern
waters) was shaping-up for the Passage.
“’Manly ferry” is a familiar term in the
R.A.N.—“Where the hell d’ you think
you are? On the Manly ferry?”—but
we hardly expecte'd to sight one of the
nostalgic craft up there. But Manly ferry
it was —South Steyne, on her trip out
from U.K. to Sydney.
£ »J 8 jfc $
“Wackford”: The more people I meet
the more pleased I am that I am teaching
now instead of 25 years ago. As soon as
a new acquaintance finds I am a teacher
he starts on hair-raising tales of what a
terror he was at school. Visions of a
school-room at that time reveal thrown
ink-bottles, upturned'desks, canes broken
across the teacher’s back and a subdued
and frightened teacher cringing in the
comer while being told “where to get
off” by the bad boy of the class. It’s a
funny thing, but I went to school 25
years ago myself. My school must have
been unique, for I can remember quiet
class-rooms, - work well done or else, and
a teacher far from cringing, and actually
having the courage to punish us occa-
sionally.
>|g *j{ jfe
“Becks”: Although plenty of wind-
jammer men, both at the time and since,
have doubted the authenticity of the
record, there seems to be no doubt that
the sailing-ship Lightning, on March 1,
1854, logged 436 miles for the day’s run.
There was no steamship afloat at the
time, or for many years afterwards, that
could approach that record, and in the
98 years that have passed no sailing-ship
has claimed to have beaten it. It may
be rather late in the day to try, but the
Misses Currie, of Lardner, in Victoria,
are issuing a challenge on behalf of
Champion of the Seas, built, like Light-
ning, by Donald McKay at East Boston
(Mass.) for the same owners, James
Baines and Co. Since 1854 there have
been in the possession of the Currie
family a batch of journals printed by
W. G. Whitty on board the Champion of
the Seas en route from Liverpool to Mel-
bourne. The journals include a weekly
report from the skipper. Captain New-
lands, and in one of these the figure 465
miles is given for the day’s run on
December 12, 1854. These old copies
of the “Champion of the Seas Gazette”
have now been presented to the Mel-
bourne Public Library in the name of
the late John Currie, J.P., who was a
passenger on the vessel at the time; a
photostat copy of Captain Newlands’s
report has been sent to the Maritime
Museum in San Francisco,
«|g jj. »jj »j{
“No Sirrah”; Just a word about Huie
and his sending it down. Some of the
explanations have been very ingenious, but
they’re all, I think, on the wrong track.
In England, the expression is “Send it
down, David! ” Since Hughie and David
are both Welsh names, perhaps the in-
vocation goes badk to the days of the
Druids.
* * * *
“The Missus”: Thirty years is a long
time and the building may no longer
exist, but there was at least one “bottle
house” in Australia (B. 26/ 3/ ’52) in
1922. The matinee at the silent cinema
had been quite a good show. Its title
“slhe Three Godfathers,” from the novel
by ; Peter B. Kyne, its heroine (I think)
Billie Dove and its setting some desert
area, probably Mexico. A great deal of
the action occurred in and around a
shack constructed from dead marines,
ends-out and plastered together with
mud. The rest of the family went through
their usual Saturday’s tea-time penance
of hearing all about the show from my
childish lips. Uncle Jack, home
from a trip through Central Australia,
cheered up and lost some of that glazed
look when I described the shack. He
had seen one just like it “out beyond the
Alice.” An old hatter had used
abandoned bottles to build his little
humpy. The inner walls were not
plastered, and Uncle described the queer
greenish light that swam inside the place
when the rising or setting sun shone
through the thick bottle-ends —a proto-
type of the modem glass-brick.
* * * *
“Aestur”: The notice “Painters work-
ing on top” that earns the rea'der an
eyeful of paint (B. 26/3/’52) reminded
me of a notice in a Thssie cafe. For
some reason the cafe floor has two levels,
one 9in. or so above the other—on the
upper one you can treat your girl to a
sundae of ice-cream and syrup at three
times the price of the ice-cream. As you
step to the upper floor a notice catches
your eye—“ Mind the”- 1 And if you
time it as I did you feel the cafe root
fall, then read in a galaxy of spinning
stars “Step.”
♦ * * *
“Tom”: What puzzled me about my
last experience of the clothes-prop man
was not so much that his call was un-
familiar in our suburb, as the extra-
ordinary hour he chose to call. I woke
up early one morning with the cry o
“Clo’-prop, clo’-prop,” ringing in my ears.
My first impression was that l had been
dreaming, and I was about to seek sleep
again when I heard the clop-clop or
horse’s hoofs and then again the cry.
sat up and listened intently. Yes, . 1 a
not been mistaken. This time the cr
came distinctly, from a little way dew
the street. I looked at my watch. iu
time was five-past three,
AN OVERDUE IMPROVEMENT.
“The old-time, fat, flamboyantly-dressed bookmaker
is memory. In his place stands a suave, well-
groomed figure, slimmed by daily massage, who cuts
such an elegant figure at the nightclubs.”
—Sporting writer.
To pursue that most pleasant of crafts
(Ah! Spare your satirical shafts!)
The bookie of old,
With the bag full of gold,
Wore a suit on which one could play draughts.
His sox were of very high volt-
Age; his shirt would give punters a jolt.
Any thoroughbred prad
That was passing by had
But to glance at his tie and he’d bolt.
Of his number of suits he was proud—
As proud as that all were so loud.
His greatest delight
Was to be such sight
As to, stagger the racegoing crowd.
His bulk —you’ll conceive it—was vast;
His appetite quite unsurpassed—
So big ’twould evoke
Great respect from a moke,
And would set other humans aghast.
How changed is the Brotherhood now!
They must have improved, you’ll allow.
Though they’re on a good lurk,
For they never did work,
Least of all by the sweat of their brow,
Still, their lack of utility is
Offset by their figure and phiz.
There are few will deny
That they now glorify,
And cast quite a gloss on their biz.
And where “Peter” and “George” tote the beer
At a price that is—well, rather queer,
Among all the males
In their white ties and “tails”
(Arid for elegance all without peer)
The “books” you will see there a-swarm,
For gregarious life is their norm.
They are polished, correct,
They’re now quite the elect,
Glass of fashion, and, oh! mould of form.
The*bull-voice they leave in the Ring.
When they gather where blues-singers sing
They peddle their blah
Iri a voice la-di-dah.
For that is considered the thing.
Yea, the callers of very short odds,
Who pencil their “ponies” on nods,
May have slimmed down; but mind,
You will certainly find
There’s obesity still in their wads!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“W.M.H.”: Doubt whether filmland’s
Lady Godiva (B. 12/3/’52) wore a more
daring costume than Pansy Montague, an
Aussie girl who impersonated the im-
mortal lady in 1907. Billed as “La Milo”
for the Coventry procession. Miss Mon-
tague was a famous strip-tease artist of
the day, and once posed among other
nude statues in a Golders Green park to
test the reaction of passers-by. Her pose
was so statuesque that few people realised
they were looking at a model in the flesh.
For her Godiva role she wore a very
scanty white drape so revealing that I
am told she had to leave Coventry before
sunset on the day of the procession to
escape the amorous attentions of modern
Peeping Toms.
' * He He He
“Yair”: Plonky Perce, who runs our
local sly-grog joint, has a son at the
lanky stage and already determined to
buy a big wine-saloon when he grows up.
Perce was heard the other day bawling
the lad out, thus: “Ain’t you never con-
tented? Can’t you be content to grow
up and go into a business like mine?
What’s wrong with my joint? Why d’you
want a wine-saloon? You’re getting too
big for your boots. Next thing you’ll be
tryin’ to get into this Liquor Commission
trouble.”
H: H: H« He
“W.P.T.”: It is a pity radio-announcers
can’t get together a little more. This
afternoon I listened to one telling us that
Sydney was experiencing a horrible, dusty
and unpleasant day. Immediately she
finished her session, the following
announcer opened his with a gushing
“What a glorious day it is!”
* * * *
“Zake”; “Amazing,” as applied to
alleged savings on purchases in the rag-
trade, may have its followers; “stagger-
ing” must be used with prudence to
describe the reductions made by a
benevolent-minded but overstocked firm ;
“absurd” may even be permissible at
times the better to draw attention to
"Be extra nice to Shirley tonight, Aub, she laid sixpence today.
bargains; but in the whole realm of
business what adjective can compare with
the simple word “local,” beloved of the
vegetable vendor? What is the magic
that makes its influence so vast? It fol-
lows that all tomatoes are “local”
tomatoes. It lends to them an added
virtue, some strange attribute impossible
in love-apples grown in any other State,
district or even suburb. It is at once an
appeal to parochial patriotism and a
shrewd reminder, by inference, that the
product must be fresher; the purchaser
has a mental view of its having been
picked but an hour or so before ; a cun-
ning finger-flick with a bowl of water
might even induce one to suppose that
, ° . , , ... 11
matutinal dew still reposes on this
product of perhaps a few streets away.
It now covers almost every product, and
the “S is a silent tribute to the soil’s
fertility. Only the other day, on a stack
of pawpaws in Papadapoulos’s shop in
Sydney was the familiar legend “locally
erown ”
°‘* « * *
, tc , TT TT „ . ,
S.H.H. : As part-owner of a number
of young Australians who shoot one an-
other regularly at weekends, I can, per-
i, 0 „ 0 / D o M /’c-n
l ia ? s > enlighten Sebak (B. 2/4/52).
It is more certain and satisfying from the
juvenile point of view to mow down a
victim with a sub-machine gun; hence
the .. Cr , r _ r ... implying a hai f Q ( ’ buUetS;
rather than run the risk of only winging
or possibly missing him altogether with
a s | n gj e “bang.” To the youngest
. Jr •
bandits, anyway, the fact that their
weapon is pistol-like doesn’t mean any-
thing and any guns that do resemble
“ su bs” are patterned, not on the Sten or
tfi e Qwen but on the tommy-gun featured
fiy imported gangster films and comic-
s^rjps<
* * * ♦
“Sam”; My father once had an ex-
perience when raiding a Chinese market-
garden which, if not so painful, was fully
as unpleasant as the charge of saltpetre
Egg” received on his unpro-
tected rear (B. 26/3/ ’52). A river
bordered the market-garden, and Dad and
his pals used regularly to swim across to
levy tribute. One afternoon the gang
was in full flight, hotly pressed by
enraged Chinese. One, armed with a
formidable pitchfork, was so close in pur-
suit that Dad paid too little attention
to his surroundings and went slap into
a - pit of liquid manure. He went
right under, but so great was his panic
that, though nearly blinded by the stuff,
he somehow got out and just managed
t o beat Ah Who to the river,
* * * *
“A.E.S.”: But is fine print harmful
to the eyes (B. 26/3/’52)? Dr. W. H.
Bates, pioneer of visual education, thinks
no t; and in his book Good Sight With-
out Glasses he tells why:
The reason is that fine print cannot
be read in a dim light and close to the
eyes unless the eyes are relaxed, whereas
lar 8 e P rint can be read in a good light and
at ordinary reading distance, although the
s ma y under a strain. When fine
pr i nt can be read under adverse conditions
the reading of ordinary print under ordinary
conditions is vastly improved.
I know there are those who decry Bates s
teaching, but I can produce a small testi-
mony of my own. After being ordered
glasses to correct muscle fatigue caused
by close-range work, I was able, after a
course of exercises derived from Bates,
to throw the glasses away. That was 12
years ago; I still do not need them,
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Those Chinese baskets
carried on a pole (B. 26/3/’52) were in-
strumental in giving me two of the biggest
surprises I’ve ever been jolted. In the
tough early ’thirties I landed a tucker-job
with a road-gang. The strip we were
doing ran between “Chows’ gardens.”
Just as we knocked off for lunch a young
Chinese jogged across from one garden
to the other, carrying tomatoes by the
ancient method. Noticing the three-
quarter-full baskets, I tried to be the
funny-man; “Hey, by cli, Charlie,
muchee no good. Want to fillum right
up.” The Celestial eased the load to the
ground. “Here,” he grinned. “You
have a b go!” When I recovered
from that shock I picked up the pole and
hoisted. Ever see a yacht in a gale with
the boom loose and the tiller swinging?
Neither have I, but I think it would look
something like the way I crossed that
road. I served my apprenticeship in the
“If he's committing perjury it'll be on the record!"
days when you dropped the trowel when
called upon and humped your sixteen
bricks a trip in the hod; but since that
day I’ve often pondered: did the Chinese
develop that shuffling jog-trot through
centuries of carrying baskets on poles,
or was the method of conveyance adopted
because it suited the national gait?
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Reported from London
that Sir Laurence Olivier has been hav-
ing his singing voice trained during his
season on Broadway for the purposes of
the role of highwayman Mac Heath in
“The Beggar’s Opera,” the old British
favorite which is to be filmed by Herbert
Wilcox. When recordings of Olivier’s
musical numbers were flown to England,
they are said to have knocked the pro-
ducer and the critics sideway. Why,
though? When he played Richard the
Third out here his beautiful voice was
the most marked thing about Sir
Laurence.
£ * * *
“Duncan”: The reason why wool was
the only cargo salvaged from the ill-
fated Cumberland was that it was natur-
ally stowed on top of the copper and
other heavy cargo, and therefore was
easily lifted and loaded into small ships
alongside for transport to Melbourne.
Frederick Henry (B. 12/3/’52) mentioned
that Dodd and Co.’s scouring-works are
no more ; this is not so. The works were
removed from Abbotsford in early 1923
to South Kensington on the Maribymong
River, and are now one of the largest
and best-equipped scouring-works in
Australia. Frederick Henry’s brother,
Alex, who as a lad helped to handle the
Cumberland’s damaged wool, is at present
one of the firm’s leading woolsorters.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Add to the other rackets
we’re hearing a bit about, the old-time
one of “ticket-scalping.” It was born
in the days when big concessions
were given by shipping cos. and the rail-
ways ; travelling back in many cases cost
only a third of the outward journey.
Sophisticated travellers always bought
“returns”; the “scalpers” would buy the
return-halves at a price that gave a profit
and get their own rake-off by selling
bargain-price “return-halves” to one-way
travellers. The Sydney big-shot in the
racket attracted a constant stream of
clients down the steps to his basement
office in Pitt-street, where the Common-
wealth Bank now stands.
* * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”: My own experi-
ence causes me to wonder when I see a
photo of three young women “planning
the details of the coming ball” whether
the sheet of paper shown is not the
Doncaster-Cup odds pushed into their
hands by the cameraman ; oi if the view
is of the opening of a new Dog;.’ Home,
whether the roll of papers in tie b mds of
the official opener are not a bu 1 e of
letters over his dispute with the Te * bon
Department, hastily produced frou- ‘he
cameraman’s own pocket. Once a brief
address of my own was interrupted three
times by a bloke who first pushed a
document into my hand with some
whispered remark and twice restored it,
after I had put it on the table. The third
time I whispered “I’ll read it afterwards,”
and retained the document. Almost
immediately the light-bulb exploded,
The photograph showed me waving that
paper in the air as if it were some charter
of freedom; what it really was I’ll never
know, as he grab.bed it back immediately
he’d got his picture. I was speaking
extempore, but, the'cameraman no doubt
felt he had done his duty in not allow-
ing me to go into a picture photo-
graphically naked.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The modern
motor-bus provides evidence that we have
lost other things besides ease, elbow-room,
courteous service, plentiful and cheap
supplies of newsy newspapers, and art
that really was art; the sleek vehicles
have bare windows, and when the sun
shines through with a burning-glass effect
the people on that side fry. The rumbling
old rattletraps, horse-drawn, of former
days, however their windows clattered as
the bus moved, did have blinds to keep
out the glaring sun. In a generation that
runs to so many unnecessary fal-lals
it is surprising that what were in earlier
days regarded as simple matters of neces-
sary comfort should be forgotten.
* * * *
“Benbow”: “Catsmeat” (B. 26/3/’52)
calls to mind the present skyrocket price
of ordinary shin-beef for animals.
I overcame this, and nowadays our
children call at the butcher’s for “Two-
bobs’-worth of old meat.” They get it
too. When does meat become old?
* * * »
“Piper”: If you really want to start
something in the sort.of gathering where
the ballad-loving verse-school argue
against devotees of the obscure Mr.
Eliot here’s a suggestion. Wait for a
pause in the conversation (the keenest
modernists must draw breath occasion-
ally) and then declaim, with full dramatic
effect; “Dunn, Gilbert and Ben Hall!”
Allow a pause of ten seconds, and add:
“Funny thing—l can’t place the ballad
that line comes from.” Tried this the
other evening'in a group of six people.
Three of the half-dozen swore the
answer was just on the tip of their
tongues. Ransacked the bookcase and
turned up a copy of Banjo Paterson’s
Old Bush Songs. By this time five of the
six were prepared to bet the words would
be found between its covers. After look-
ing through every ballad in the book,
Dunn, Gilbert and Ben Hall’s literary
ghosts remained equally as elusive as
those gentry had been in life. Finally,
however, ran the refrain to earth in
Paterson’s introduction, where he quotes:
Come all ye lads of loyalty and listen to
my tale,
A story of bushranging days I will to you
unveil,
’Tis of those gallant heroes, we’ll bless them
one and all,
And we’ll sit and sing long live the King,
Dunn, Gilbert and Ben Hall.
With another line: “It’s a thousand
pounds, alive or dead, for Dunn, Gilbert
and Ben Hall,” that was as much as
Paterson could trace. Anyone ever heard
more of the epic than Banjo fossicked
out?
BALLADE OF THE BUTT.
(For THE BULLETIN.)
When I was a youngster at school,
Though “cigs” were but threepence a pack,
Twas our economical rule,
To euchre the imminent lack
Of a fag at the end of the whack
When the shops in the township were shut,
To go on the sensible tack
Of ruthlessly socking the butt.
The subsequent smoke wasn’t cool;
We tackled, all bitter and .black,
A fag with a kick like a mule
When we gaspingly “did the drawback”;
Yet, like playing in euchre the jack,
At the trouble of working one’s nut
’Tother nut was quite easy to crack
Of ruthlessly socking the butt.
Repentance will proffer its stool
At various halts on the track,
Where the blows of misfortune may “crool”
Our organised plans of attack,
Till Atropos takes up the slack,
The strands of our smokescreen to cut:
The Fates have grim methods, alack,
Of ruthlessly socking the butt!
Envoy.
’Neath ruins of palace and shack
The light of existence goes phut:
With jealousy Death guards the knack
Of ruthlessly socking the butt.
England.
GUY INNES.


TILLEY
■
%
ss
mi
imuk
iilil.
WM//H)
lav#
TILLEY STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246
STORM LANTERN
“THE GUARDSMAN”
TheTILLEY “Guardsman” Storm Lantern
is built to withstand the roughest treat-
ment in all weathers and is completely
stormproof and utterly reliable in all
conditions and climates. It is economical
in use, burning only \\ pints of Kerosene
to give 300 candle power light for 12
hours. The best Kerosene all-purpose
pressure lamp which can be bought today.
“ [k\X
« oOUC " S
Vttß°
St^ 6,
Manufacturer's Representatives :—
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET.
MELBOURNE, C.l.
n
t
MANUFACTURED SOLELY BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
of
HENDON, ENGLAND
"Phenovis” Worm Remedy
fagef."
t
&
\
t*.
get
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
EBB.BZJO
a Cornet at Nabawa
by MAT'S MATE
Nabawa is a bit of a
wheat town on the
Lachabidgee, and me and
Mat blew in there about
eight o’clock one Friday night.
We’d had a fair tramp that day,
about twenty-three miles and no
handouts, and when we hit
Nabawa we had a pinch of tea,
no sugar, some salt, about an
ounce of fine-cut and some
papers and 2s. Id. It was dark,
we were tired and hungry.
“Here,” I said to Mat, “you
take the two-bob an’ get some
bread an’ sugar an’ some cheese,
if y’ can. I’ll make down the
river an’ rig a camp an’ get a
fire goin’.”
“Right, mate.” He ambled up
the street and I turned down a
side-street, and presently came to
a good spot on the river. I got
a fire going and swung the billy,
gathered a heap of that long
water - couch grass for our
bunks, and opened up the naps
on the leeside of a clump of
gum-suckers.
Presently I began wondering
where the deuce Mat had got to,
and was just about to start for
the town to dig him up when he
hove in sight. He didn’t say a
word, just stamped into camp
and dropped down by the fire.
“Didger get the tucker?” I
asked.
“No.”
He sounded pretty wild and
disgusted, and I looked at him,
but his face was full of shadows
in the firelight.
“Why? Was the shops all
shut?”
He didn’t answer for a bit.
Then he spat in the fire and
opened up with a string of
curses. Here and there I
gathered enough to understand
that in Mat’s opinion Nabawa
was the last place the gods made,
and they were so disgusted with
it they raked up all the leftovers
of people they could find and
put them in it.
You can’t hurry Mat when
he’s like that, so I let him go,
wondering what he’d run into.
After a bit he stopped swearing,
stared at the fire, gave a bit of
a wild sort of laugh, hunched
himself and said “I done the
two-bob cold, mate. There’s a
hall, before y’ get t’ the shops.
The door is open an’ I see a
crowd in there an’ like a big
mug I have t’ go in. It’s one o’
them church bazaars. You
know, stalls an’ flowers an’
home-made cakes an’ lucky-dips
an’ all that. I just took a look,
an’ then turn t’ go out, an’ strike
me blue, four young sheilas get
round me an’ want me t’ buy
tickets in a raffle.”
“Don’t tell me y’ done our
last two-bob on raffle-tickets?”
“I never meant t’,” he swore.
“I said ‘No’ t’ them sheilas an’
tried t’ get out, but they hung
on t’ me.” He shivered. “There
was one —big, red-headed sort,
she was —bunged herself up
again me an’ pushed me inter
the wall an’ pressed again me,
an’ she was all eyes an’ scent
an’ smilin’ an’ kept sayin’ ‘Do
buy one. Please, do buy one.’
Whatinell was It’ do?” He
flung out his great arms
despairingly.
| WAS getting wild, because I
I was hungry and all we had
was a bit of tea ; and because
girls scared him stiff, he’d done
our two-bob.
“Strike me,” I howled. ‘Y’
didn’t have t’ do the whole
flamin’ two-deeners. How much
was them ruddy tickets?”
“A zack a time,” he confessed
miserably. “That red - headed
one got me penned up, an’ her
three mates dancin’ round
proddin’ me an’ I reckon I got
hot an’ bothered. You’d bin the
same, mate, if you’d bin there.
So I reckons if I buy a ticket
they’ll leave me go an’ I shoves
the two-bob at the red-headed
one an’ says ‘Gimme a ticket.’
She lets out a squeal an’ rips off
four flamin’ tickets an’ shoves
’em in me fist, grabs the two-bob,
and her an’ her mates ducks off
lookin’ for some other poor
mug. I yelled at ’em, but it was no
good. So I done the two-bob.”
He got up and kicked the fire
and turned his back on it and
looked down at the river.
“Well,” I said, “if y’re goin’
t’ jump in the flamin’ river go
downstream a bit. That water's
all I got for breakfast after I
have this tea for supper an’ I
like my breakfast pure.”
“Aw, hell.”
“The way you go on when
sheilas get near y’,” I said,
“anybody’d think y’ was a little
kid.”
“Aw, shut up,” he barked.
“Ain’t I hungry, too! Any-
body’d think you was the only
one doin’ a starve.”
“Maybe they would. But I’m
doin’ a starve because you done
our last two-bob to a red-
headed sheila. Reckon I got a
right t’ growl.”
“Well, growl y’r ruddy head
off,” he snarled, and made for
his bunk.
There was nothing else to do,
so I got into mine.
NEXT morning we used the
last of our tea and had a
smoke, and after breakfast
drifted up the town. The cook
at the pub knocked us back, the
baker said he’d call the police, a
bloke we saw in a car said he
wouldn’t waste his money on
loafers, and the butcher said he
had no free meat. Which shows
you the kind of town this
Nabawa was. All we got
was two apples when Mat
accidentally on purpose bumped
the stand in front of the Italian
fruiterer’s and knocked it over
and we both rushed to help him
pick them up. We went round
the nearest corner a
Then we leaned against a
and watched Nabawa, and
Nabawa kept its eye on us and
it must have § one and I? d the
police because prese ntly we
§&w h ’ jm standing D n a corner
at us
well,’’Mat said, “some of
thesg wheat towns is good places
f be out of. How about makin’
Leeton? It’s civilised.”
d ha ngin’ round
„ j = ed
w ’ e unl ° aned ourselves from
wall and headed along the
making for our camp .
„ H ’ we t a I sa id.
P can^t walk f ar on weak
, , „
“jhere’s where our two-bob
„ M . tp( i
He was looking at a notice ir
window There was a heap c f
thin _ dolls> cakeS , crockery,
jctures> croc het, knitting, boxes
chocolates and all that sort of
w e read the notice. It
was a Hst of all the numbers
prizes af the bazaar the
.“v . f y, A id an vbodv
ca >! ™ 1 said,
£j ~y , could w won a
doll—or a box o them choco-
y 1 ; 11 u /. .. fFo „ 11C f nr
? es , k y We c ® u " d "
“Wait a Mat said,
fished in a pocket and
ragged out some bits of paper,
a « d sure enough one of ’em was
No 43 and pink-colored and
among the on die list
wa .? We N ° mi^t P e , k ' a teed yeC
,f' and we dlVed mt °
that shop. t *
His prize w '■
b "B h ‘ and shmy cornet m a
na hy case,
E took it out into the street
VV a nd looked at it.
“Must be worth a fiver,” Mat
gloated. “We’ll get a couple of
q U i d for it, easy. Now go crook
a bout me takin’ them raffle-
tickets, will y’?”
All I could see was a sizzling
big plate of steak and eggs and
me wading through it. A^ d
after that about four cold big
beers at the pub. And after that
us buying second-class tickets to
Leeton on the tram. All we haa
to do was sell that cornet and
begin to enjoy ourselves. m
“Luck’s a ruddy fortune, i
told Mat. Y big, flat-footed
cow, I could kiss y for this,
There wasn’t a band in
Nabawa and it didn t want one.
It didn’t even want the start ot
one. It didn’t even want a
cornet worth a fiver for two
quid. Or one quid Or ten-boh.
Or five. All Nabawa wanted


r-^os*
iv j -?.
yv,/
feS?*.
•siii
-i
K
N
Frenzied peasants attack sky monster
Paris, 27th August, 1785
ONSIEUR MONT-
GOLFIER’S first
hydrogen balloon,
released on the Champs de
Mars in Paris, came down at
Gonesse. Excited rustics
mistook it for some mon-
strous devilish beast and,
encouraged by two monks,
attacked it with pitchforks
and flails until it was quite
deflated. The tattered re-
mains were tied to a horse’s
tail and dragged away.
We can imagine M. Mont-
golfier’s statement to the
Press. “This shows how fat
aviation has to go before
flying machines become
commonplace. When they
do, of course, proper
arrangements will be needed
for their reception. And
somebody will have to in-
vent the BP Aviation service
to refuel them quickly and
efficiently.”
SERVICE
AVIATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
An Associate of Anglo-lranian Oil Company, Limited, England .
was to get on with its business
and us to get out of the place.
In the end we went to the police-
station.
“Look,” Mat said to the
policeman, “me an’ me mate is
broke. We ain’t had a feed since
yesterday. I won this cornet
last night, buyin’ raffle-tickets
with our last two-bob. We
helped the church bazaar with
our last two deeners. How about
you lendin’ us a dollar to get a
bit o’ tucker, an’ holdin’ the
cornet till we get a job an’ send
y’ back the money? It’s a
flamin’ good cornet and you’d
be”
“I bin watchin’ you two all
the morning,” said the police-
man. “Tony Spinola alleges you
stole some apples from him. 1
don’t want to be officious and
you might be honest men, but
it’s funny the way you hang
round. Don’t you start any
funny business because I’ll run
you in quick.”
Mat had taken the cornet out
of the case to show it to the
policeman, and we walked out
with me holding the case and
Mat holding the trumpet. We
walked almost out of the street
before we felt safe from that
policeman.
“Oh, well,” I said. “It’s a dead
cert, there’s a band in Leeton
an’ we can sell”
He put out his left arm and
shoved me hard against a fence
and held me there. With his
right hand he waved the cornet
in the air.
“I done nothin’ t’ this flamin’
town,” he roared. “I come in
last night dead quiet an’ you go
down t’ make a camp, an’ I go
peacefully t’ buy bread an’
cheese. What happens? What
happens?”
By this time two men, three
little boys and a yellow-and-
white dog had stopped to watch
us. Across the road two women
at a gate stopped gossiping and
turned round and stood silent.
“What happens! ” howled
Mat, shaking me, while two
more dogs and another man
came, and heads appeared in
doorways. “I get surrounded by
girls. I get ambushed an’ held t’
ruddy ransom. They rob me of
me last flamin’ two-bob. I just
about get out alive. That’s what
this flamin’ town done t’ me.
It”
You know how word runs
round a small town when there’s
a fight or a drunk in the horrors
or somebody kills a snake.
Well, Nabawa’s a small town and
people and small kids and dogs
started Coming from everywhere.
“Cut it out, y’ big hump,” I
growled. “Want t’ get us
pinched. Y’ll have the John here
in a minute.”
He let go of me and said
quietly “That’s right. Let’s get
down t’ the camp.”
The crowd followed us a little
way, but seeing us quiet they
gave Mat up as a source of
entertainment and went their
ways.
HE rolled his knot without
saying any more, shouldered
it, picked up the case with the
cornet in it, and led the way up
from the river and turned his
back on Nabawa along the
Leeton road. We tramped along,
not talking, because we were
pretty hungry and suffering the
let-down a man feels after
excitement.
About two miles up the road
we came to a bridge. There was
a drover there with about six-
hundred sheep, and they’d
balked at the bridge and
jammed on it, and the drover
and his boy and dogs couldn’t
shift ’em. Three motor-cars
and a sulky were waiting to
cross, and everybody was
worked up and wild. It was
about midday and fairly warm,
and the wind was the wrong way
and the sheep stubborn.
Mat had a look at the doings.
Then he got out the cornet and
pushed through the sheep till he
got near the leaders jammed on
the bridge. He put the cornet
to his mouth and blew. Nothing
happened at first. Then he got
the hang of it and a shrill blast
burst out of the thing. One of
the drover’s dogs fell off the
bridge into the river, the sulky-
horse reared, and the jammed
sheep exploded and raced across
that bridge. All the other sheep
raced after them and in three
minutes the bridge was clear.
The drover sent his boy to check
the stampede, and walked up to
Mat with a big grin of relief on
his red and dusty face.
“By cripes,” he said fervently,
“that’s worth a couple of bob t’
me.” He began to fish in his
pocket.
“Me an’ the mate,” Mat said
civilly, “ain’t had a feed since
yesterday. We don’t want your
dough, mate, but if y’ got a bit
of bread an’ meat”
“Too bliddy right,” said the
drover. “I was goin’ t’ have
dinner soon’s I got the sheep
across. Come on.”
While we fed, the drover asked
if Mat belonged to a band and
we told him how we got the
cornet. He reckoned it was the
funniest yarn he'd heard for
years.
‘'Yah,” Mat said darkly.
“An’ it ain’t ended yet.”
We lay round in the shade for
a couple of hours, then the
drover got his sheep moving. As
we watched him move off, I said
“Well, that’s better. How
about hittin’ the road again?”
“No hurry,” Mat said. “We
can get where we’re goin’ just
as easy t’morrow as we can
t’day. Me, I’m spendin’ the rest
of the day here.”
“But”
“Aw, pull your head in, mate.
I’m goin’t’ have a snooze.”
Whatever he had in his mind
he’d keep there. He’d learned
not to tell me his plans when he
was cooking up something,
because it only caused argu-
ments, So the pair of us lay in
the shade and snoozed.
I UST on sundown Mat got
up, had a dip in the river
and made some tea. The drover
had left us a bit of cold mutton,
some sugar, tea and soda-bread.
After we’d eaten, Mat picked up
his knot and shoved it in some
bushes. Then he took the cornet
and made for the bridge.
“Where y’ goin’?” I asked.
“Nabawa.”
“What the blazes y’ want t’
go back there for?”
“T give ’em flamin’ cornets!”
“You get in any brawls y’
can finish ’em y’rself. I’m not
lookin’ for trouble.”
“Please y’rself, mate.”
By this time he was across the
bridge. I sat there, telling
myself to keep out of it; to wait
until he came back, done over
by the locals, and then pour it
into him for being a fool.
Then I thought I’d better drift
along and see what happened.
When I got across the bridge he
was over half a mile ahead. It
being Saturday night, Nabawa
had a street-light or three burn-
ing, the shops were open and
cars were heading into the place.
I lost sight of Mat in the dusk
and dust. But in a small place
like that I knew I’d soon locate
him. The way he was he’d
probably be the centre of interest
shortly.
I had a quick look around
when I got among the shops, but
couldn’t sight him. There were
people bobbing about, talking,
going in and out of the shops,
sitting in the parked cars. Three
or four sulky-horses and a hack
stood outside the main store,
there were the usual women and
kids and stray dogs. But no
Mat. X leaned against the pub
and wondered what he was up
to. People went past. There
was the sound of feet and voices.
Then from ovey my head came
a shrill, brassy blast of sound.
It ran to a shiek, gurgled, fell to
a bass, shot up again. Every-
body I could see stopped dead.
One of the sulky-horses reared,
snapping its hitch-rein, spun on
its hindlegs and came down
spraddled across a motor-car.
People gaped about with shocked
faces. Two men ran to the
spraddled horse. From over-
head the comet shrieked and
burbled and broke and shrieked
again.
I plunged out into the road.
He was on the roof of the pub,
leaning on the parapet, the
cornet to his mouth. Again he
blew on it and twiddled the keys.
Every dog in the street began
barking and yelping, people cried
questions, the rearing sulky-
horse fought its holder and the
other horses began to sidestep
and plunge.
Mat sounded again. This time
he maintained a long series of
shrieks and gurgles and breaks.
The crowd herded together,
looking up at him and talking at
each other. In the upward
reflection from the street- and
shop-lights Mat’s outline was
dim, but there was nothing dim
about the noise he made.
O OMEBODY roared “Hey,
what’s the game?”
“Practisin’ me cornet,” Mat
roared back.
The crowd gave tongue. “He
ought t’ be stopped”—“Blowing
a cornet” —“Frightening the
horses” —“That’s not a fair go”
—“Where’s the police?” —and
so on.
A very small girl began
screaming fearfully ; and what
with this, and the dogs, and the
restive horses, and the men
yelling, and the brassy shrieks
from the parapet, Nabawa was
on the verge of hysteria.
A big, important sort of man
waved his hands at the crowd
and it fell somewhat silent. He
called up to Mat, civilly enough,
“Do you have to practise your
music there? Can’t you see
that it’s exciting horses and
scaring the youngsters?”
“Take your bloomin’ horses
away an’ put the kids t’ bed,”
came back Mat. “How the
devil do y’ think I can practise
properly with all this interrup-
tion?”
He raised the devastating
instrument again and another
blast shattered the night. The
important man waved at the
angry crowd again and called
up to Mat “But why pick such
a time and place? Don’t you
realise you’re annoying people
and creating animosity?”
Then I saw the policeman
push through the crowd towards
the important man. Probably
Mat saw him, too.
He called down loudly, “I’ll
pick any time an’ place 1 like!
I dunno who you are, mister,
but your bloomin’ town shoved
this cornet on me —it took me
last two-bob while it was at it —
and I’m goin’t’ learn t’ play the
flamin’ thing if it takes me all
night. It”
The policeman called “I told
you to get out of here.”
“What makes y’ think I want
t’ stop in the ruddy place?” Mat
shouted back. “I tried t’ sell
the cornet, didn’t I? I asked y’
t’ lend me five-bob on it, didn’t
I? What are you Nabawa
blokes cornin’ at? You make a
man buy tickets in a bloomin’
raffle, an’ when he wins a ruddy
musical instrument y’ kick up a
row because he tries t’ play it!
Whadda y’ want me t’ do, eat
the flamin’ thing?”
And he put the cornet up to
his mouth and blew some more.
The policeman bellowed “I
order you to come down from
up there! ”
“Why?” Mat asked, as though
astonished. “I’m not doin’
anythin’ wrong, am I? There’s
no crime in a man practisin’ a
bit o’ music, is there? Gripes,
y’ll have t’ go round arrestin’ all
the little boys an’ girls learnin’
the pianner an’ violin.”
Once more the blast of the
cornet echoed over the village
and along the river-gums.
That settled it, of course. That
policeman wasn’t going to be
defied in front of the populace.
He went into the pub and up on
to the roof, and took Mat by an
arm and brought him down into
the street and ran him in.
Nabawa simmered down and I
waited my chance and sneaked
round by the lock-up and
whistled. Mat called “Wait at
the camp, she’ll be apples.”
There was nothing else to do.
NEXT morning he was
brought before the
important man, who was a J.P.,
and asked if he “elected to be
dealt with summarily.” When
that was explained to him, Mat
announced that he would plead
not guilty to any charges they
brought, and would fight to the
last ditch, and get the union on
to them, and it was no wonder
men wouldn’t work around
Nabawa when they were treated
like criminals, and he would ask
for Government help in making
his defence, and a lot more. So
the J.P. adjourned Mat until
he’d put through a couple of
drunks and a dog-licence. And
after that he and the policeman
told Mat he was a nuisance, and
they would give him £1 for the
cornet, and two hours to clear
out, and if ever he showed up in
Nabawa again they’d get him
five years.
So Mat bought some tucker,
and picked me up, and we hit
out for other parts.
“What give y’ the idea
of blowin’ the trumpet at ’em?”
I asked.
“Didn’t y’ see what it done t’
the sheep?” he grinned.
“Yair, but people ain’t sheep.”
“Is that so?” he jeered, and
grinned some more.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Brick E.”: A religious hod-carrier is
as rare in the building trade as a modest
painter, and ours was a muscular Christian
strong enough to lift a bullock up by
the ears, yet, if someone had smitten him
on the right cheek, I don’t doubt that he
would have turned the left. But I
wouldn’t have liked to be the smiter after
that. After the first shock we gradually
grew accustomed to his baritone rolling
out hymns as he worked —although it
did seem a
bit incongru-
ous that a
tough - looking
hoddy could
be wanted
“for a sun-
beam.” Still,
he was a good
toiler and an
easy bloke to
get on with.
Humping his
18 bricks ,in
“the monkey,” he was loading a scaffold
one morning when we heard the kind
of crash that can only be made when a
man with a loaded hod treads on a
“trap.” There was a dead silence, “He’s
hurt bad,” gasped old Bob, and led the
rush for the ladder. We found our cot-
case grinning as he dismissed lightly a
barked shin. Bob was disgusted. “Listen,
mate,” he complained, “I don’t want to
interfere with y’r principles, but when
you’re not hurt bad surely you can bust
out with somethin’ if it’s only ‘bother’!
You don’t have to scare the daylights out
of us.” I was a mere apprentice then,
but over the years I’ve caught on to what
the old brickie meant: When a string of
cussin’ floats up after a buster there is
never any great damage done ; it’s silence
that presages serious injury, though the
victim' be still conscious.
* * *
“L.L.”: So “Blime’s” horseback fisher-
man (B. 26 /3 / ’52) wants a dog to retrieve
his fish and pass them up to him? Well,
he should try to do a deal with the
owner of a tan-and-white border collie
(you heard, I said tan-and-white!) up
in the N.S.W. nor’-west. Two or three
days a week the dog can be seen in
action on the Delungra-Graman-road.
The farmer who owns her drives along
in his car and from behind the wheel
snap-shoots bunnies in adjoining pad-
docks. The dog watches direction of aim
and sights rabbit, knows instantly if
bunny has been hit, and if so leaps from
the car and races after it, retrieving it like
a trained bird-dog.
* * * *
“Tam”: When our three-year-old
jersey was missing from the herd a
thorough search was made, but we
sighted not even a crow to show where
a carcass might be. It was not until nine
days later that she was found at the
base of an eight-feet-high cliff which
forms part of the wall of a thickly-
wooded, vine-covered ravine. She was
standing in a slightly sloping, closely
confined space the size and shape of a
small cattle-stall, which was completely
surrounded by high rocks and timber and
covered by dense sub-tropical foliage.
Everything green within reach of her
head had been eaten, but, except for a
downpour of rain which occurred the
day after she vanished and which must
have run off as soon as it fell, she had
no hope whatever of getting a drink in
all that time. When found she seemed
all ribs and backbone, but her eye was
still bright and full of life. We cleared
a track up a 60-degrees incline and three
of us practically lifted her out, she was
so light; but she herself gave every help
in her power. Her first reaction after
her deliverance was to stagger to a near-
by creek she must have heard cascading
over a waterfall only a few yards away
throughout her terrible nine days,
and she drank till we had to stop her.
She showed no special sign of hunger,
though lush feed was plentiful there-
abouts. That must be close to a record
feat of endurance for a Jersey.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Sunday afternoon at La
Perouse (N.S.W.). A group of ’teen-age
girls come skipping and frolicking across
the reserve near historic Botany Bay.
Evidently they are from the aborigines’
settlement—their race is apparent in the
eyes, lips and unmistakable set of the jaw,
although some of them are almost white.
No miserable, shabby, down-trodden
creatures these ; the area rings with their
laughter. Not a girl is dirty or shabbily
dressed, and some are wearing expensive
clothes. But they are still schoolkids at
heart. Off come the shoes, to be tossed
in a heap outside the playing-area. One
of the girls has produced a cricket-bat;
she takes block before an improvised
wicket. A ball comes whizzing down —
a good length, and no underarm, either.
Two or three more balls, then it is de-
cided to pick sides. The girls stand in a
circle. One begins to chant as she touches
each extended hand in turn. And the
round is: “Eenie, meenie, minie, mo.”
But she doesn’t say “nigger”; it is a
“blackfeller” who is caught by the toe.
I feel that I have learnt something:
“ Aren't We a couple of goats!”
obviously an aborigine sees nothing
offensive in the term “blackfellow,” but
“nigger” is an insult.
* * * *
“Kros”: The stream of ants was
making its way down the skirting-board
along the outside wall of my fibro home,
round a corner and down an old post
resting against the board and sloping to
the ground. When I took the post away
the ants (which continued to arrive at
short intervals) gathered in apparent con-
fusion where the bridgehead had been.
Some ventured on a little further, but
soon returned to the still-swelling crowd.
Followed conferrings together ; then there
was a general return the way they had
come, each ant touching with its antennae
in passing those still heading to where
the post had been, as if to warn that
something was wrong. I put back
hwZM&Eemmo*. -s A
j^cnib
4ajRS
“Do you teach jitterbugging here? ”
the post exactly in its old position ; but
the ants still there and those now arriving
made no attempt to go down it. They
walked up to it, sniffed at it, but con-
tinued to turn back. Nor did those
climbing the post proceed on to the
skirting-board; they, too, turned and
went back. Another 10 minutes and the
traffic along the board had stopped com-
pletely. Why was it not straightway
resumed again when the post was put
back?
* * * *
“Eurimburra”: One of the best and
certainly the most comical of ratters on
my payroll is a lone barn-owl. He’s been
around for years and must be getting
very old. In fair weather he roosts in
any suitably bushy tree, and in foul
weather in a shed housing a 100-year-old
carriage, choosing, of all places, the
guard-rail of the driver’s seat, where,
solemn and upright,
he somewhat start-
lingly suggests the
ghost of a long-dead
jehu. Recently he
struck trouble, for,
caught in heavy rain
that started at mid-
night and went
through into the day-
light, he was spotted
about 6 a.m. flapping
towards the house
pursued by magpies.
Momenta rily it
seemed he’d take
refuge on the
veranda, but they
put him into the
mulberry-tree near
by. Not content,
his tormentors
knocked him out of
it, so that the poor
old bloke cannoned
into the ivy hedge
and finished up a
bedraggled bundle of
feathers on the
ground. I hunted off
his persecutors and
he hopped onto the
garden fence, shuffled
under an overhang-
ing lucerne-tree and
there, knocked up,
snoozed out the rest
of the day.
* *
“Pip Tok”: The
latest queer fish, and
first of its species,
to be received by the
Perth (W.A.)
Museum, is a ghost
shark which formerly sought its prey in the
deeper waters of the Great Australian
Bight. Though relatively small —the Perth
specimen is only 30in. long—it is some-
. times called the “elephant shark.” A
comparatively harmless representative of
a ferocious tribe, it has a short head,
pointed nose, large staring eyes and a
smirking mouth which gives the fish a
larrikin leer, even in death. The body
tapers to a fine tip at the tail, which is as
long as head and body combined. The
teeth are small, but the chief weapon of
offence is the first dorsal-fin, which has
a strong serrated spine, and grows
immediately behind the head. The post-
mortem appearance is silvery, brown
patches on the head and at the bases of
the paired fins, and the menu includes
seaweed, small fish, shellfish, sea-urchins
and worms
“Nakhoda”: Touching pars on Mac-
Millan Brown and the mystery of Easter
Island, a scrap of evidence for Brown’s
vanished Pacifica has been tendered
by a submarine volcano which, come
to life near Manila after 90 years’ quies-
cence, pushed a moving mass of volcanic
rock 250 ft. above the surface of the
Pacific. A U.S. Air Force pilot who
observed the act of creation saw huge
black boulders five stories high tumbling
about like marbles. Almost a century
ago at almost the same spot an under-
sea eruption created Didica’s Rocks and
pushed them 700 ft. above the surface.
The Pacific floor has probably been going
up and down like that for aeons.
sH Hs ❖ ♦
“Sackfair”: Whether a train that leaves
Wollongong (N.S.W.) for Sydney at
about eight on Saturday nights is
called “The brides’ train” I don’t
know, but it should be. Every time I’ve
travelled on it there have been at least two
bridal parties being farewelled on the
station—with all the trimmings, from the
nark with the last-minute box of confetti
to the mothers smiling through tears.
Some romantic soul on the staff has
always done the honors with a couple of
detonators on the line, and the engine-
driver has never failed to enter into the
spirit of the thing with appropriate
“cocka-a-doodle-doos.” At odd stations
down the line, Corrimal, Austinmer, etc.,
other honeymoon-bound couples are
often picked up, and, though detonators
seem to be scarce at the smaller places,
the driver remains a gallant, romantic
soul. This train, it appears, is the last one
bound for Sydney until the late a.m. on
Sunday; hence its popularity with the
newlyweds. Personally, I think it’s a
splendid institution, seen from any angle.
With the bridal couple safely dispatched
the respective mothers can go home and
have a good cry, the fathers get gloriously
tight, kiss the bridesmaids, do the Holly-
wood Square Dance or join in any scraps
that start. Meanwhile those young
couples in the train raise romance in even
such case-hardened old hearts as mine, as
there they sit, holding hands, gazing
starry-eyed into a future that is all sun-
shine and no storms.
* * * *
“Übet”: Instead of goat-breeding as a
good thing (B. 19 /3 / ’52) I would suggest
a few lines of quiet-natured hacks. In
hill country horses will always be needed,
but with machines taking over in so many
districts the old hack-breeder seems to
have retired. In our neck of the woods
it becomes increasingly difficult to buy a
hack, and as soon as one comes on the
market it is snapped up like an empty
house. Once it took a long advertisemen
of prospective bargains in the loca
weekly to ensure a successful cleanng-
sale ; nowadays it needs only the wor s
“several sturdy hacks, quiet,” and tn
district arrives in force. Watched a very
second-rate stock pony go under t
hammer recently on a bid of £39, an
another weary old Methuselah chan o
hands for £35. In better days the pair
would have reaped a fiver and a P ensl ..
respectively, but, short of breeding tns
own, what’s a bloke to dpi
THE LOVEBIRD.
“Why do your bead-eyes glitter with fear,
green-feathered bird in a cage? Tremble
no more on your perch, the man-shape that
nears you
is also a bird.”
“Who are you? Who are you? A man-sound,
a shape
or a shadow?”
“A bird that is wingless;
free, but featherless.
Green-feathered lovebird, listen to my tale:
I flew from a tree to a city,
looking for green amongst grey.
They slashed at my wings without pity.
I saw the fresh green, I heard the tree singing,
surrounded by grey;
flutter and furl, twitter and twirl,
nearer I crept to the younger leaves clinging.
The leaves were all crying, “Green, green,”
my shining, wet wings were spattered with red,
so amongst all the leaves and deep in the city
I looked for a new pair instead.
Earthbound I trod through the grey. I heard
the harsh, gritty sounds of the man-shapes
around me,
the bell-tones of woman-shapes calling,
till above the tall tree with its leaves singing
‘Green’
came the glitter of bird-colors crying,
‘High, high.’
Little green lovebird, listen!
I looked up above, where the soft clouds were
flying,
and oh, how blinding the hot flash of the sun,
how dazzling the glare of that sky!
Downward my sight fell to earth, and wingless
I lay there forever.
Sadly to you in your language I flutter, sweet
bird.
Bird-beak and bead-eye, tell me why.”
Sang the kind bird:
“I saw you as dark first of all, like a large
lump of clay, but now you are greener than I,
and sing like a tree. Flutter no more
in your flesh-cage, man-shape or shadow.
The green-feathered lovebird you speak to
was one-time a man,”
N.S.W.
KEITH FREE.


EIET-KTNOCH
Shotgun
CARTRIDGES
fs
Rabbits in their countless millions
constitute one of Australia’s most
destructive pests. Good grazing land
can be rapidly turned into barren
acreage if these pests are uncon-
trolled. Land-owners and sports-
men may make every day’s shooting
more than worthwhile by helping to
reduce the numbers of these vermin.
Eley-Kynoch shotgun cartridges are
hard-hitting and 100% reliable.
Jf
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
•AM-2.X.243.
S*=
V
K
and frayed.
His boots were down at heel.
He didn’t run a bank account.
And he often lacked a meal.
But one thing that he ne’er
forgot
In his pocket to carry secure.
Was that most excellent remedy—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Australasian Subscription Rates
12 months . . . . . . £ i 16 0
6 months . . . . . . 18 6
3 months . . . . . . 9 6
Post-free whether ordered direct from Box 2521, G.P.
Sydney, or through any newsagent.
“Mafs Mate”; “Wimmen!” Mat
snorted, after the match. “I get the ball
out on the half-forward wing an’ start
a run wide t’ get into position f’r a kick
into the forwards, an’ out o’ the tail o’
me eye I sight two Walpe blokes cornin’
at me. The way they’re cornin’ they’re
certain t’ sandwich me, so I prop an’ the
two shoot past an’ hit each other just in
front o’ me. Next thing the flamin’
sky falls on me head an’ I’m all smothered
up, lose the ball an’ me kick, and the
Walpe mob get it away. What happened
was some mad woman rushed in from
the boundary an’ crowned me with her
umbrella.” Disgustedly he peeled off his
guernsey. “Oh, well,” somebody said,
“that’s the way it goes, Mat.” Mat glared.
“Wimmen! ” he roared. “She was one of
our barrackers. She rushed in t’ crown
one of them Walpe blokes, and when I
propped o’ course I copped it!”
* * * *
“Sutroh”; Re “Lex’s” statement (B.
19/3/’52) about cicadas’ completion of
their life-cycle from egg to grub to
chrysalis to adult insect in 12 months, it’s
only a few of them that do this. Ento-
mologists seem to think that, as the adults
appear in greater numbers every third
year, it is probable that three years is
about the cycle of their subterranean
existence. In America the “17-year”
cicada is considered a most deadly pest.
With it, what happens is this:
After the two insects have mated, the
male partner dies. Later the female lays
about 500 eggs in a tree and then she
passes out. The grubs, after hatching, drop
to the ground and burrow quite a distance
under the surface. Here they live on the
sap of tree-roots for 17 years, doing in
that time a great amount of damage.
* * * *
“Lex”: Add to “Sackville’s” corruption
of Cabramatta for the abo.’s “Cobra-
matta” (B. 26 /3 / ’52) such other examples
as Canberra for the black’s more musical
“Nganbirra,” meaning meeting-place;
Cobar for Coburra ; Kirribilli for the far
more pleasing Kiarabeeli; Cronulla in-
stead of soft and musical Kurranulla.
Then there’s Goonoo Goonoo, which we
pronounce “gunnigoonoo,” emulating
the Cholmondeley farce. There must
have been a reason for the early-estab-
lished spelling of Goonoo Goonoo, which
no doubt represented the actual abo.
sound. Repetition of a word in the abo.
“language” was his simple means of
pluralisation and equal emphasis or
accent was given to the two words pro-
nounced, indicating plenty of that thing
or two or more of it.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”; Roughley on Fish (R.P.
13/2/’52) says it should be “snapper,”
not “schnapper,” basing his decision on
Captain Cook’s log, dated Friday, May
25, 1770. “Snapper” it certainly was to the
British Navy; Captain Fremantle, H.M.S.
Challenger, who arrived in May, 1829,
to hoist the flag on the site that now
bears his name, records some juicy
snapper-fishing in Cockburn Sound: on
one occasion fish so large that all hooks
straightened out and there was none
caught. The W.A. Year-Book, 1896-97,
however, gives the term as “schnapper,”
which was the Dutch form of the name.
And West Australia should have priority
on the matter, since “schnapper” was
caught around Rottnest by the crew of
De Wakende Boei (Floating Buoy),
skipper Samuel Volekersen, 1658 ; and
also by those of Vlaming’s Geelvinck
and two other ships, Nyptangh and
Weseltje, in January, 1697. Volekersen,
the first to discover Rottnest, was in
search of the lost crew of the Batavia
treasure-ship De Vergulde Draeck,
wrecked somewhere south of what is
now Geraldton on October 4, 1655.
Vlaming was in search of traces of the
Ridderschap Van Holland, supposed lost
on the W.A. coast the previous year.
Anchored around Rottnest for a week or
more, these Dutchmen caught plenty of
“schnapper.” And they knew the fish
well, since it was also found around
Table Bay, where they had been in settle-
ssmi^
FIN#
HOTEL
MBOCET HOTEL
spechSS
Piwiwiui
ipatM Him
fsd
•SiO o' <M-5
“ Yair — it'th' best town on th' Line.”
ment since 1648. Thus “schnapper” was
caught and so named in W-A. waters
nearly a century before Cook began his
career in the Navy, 1755.
* * * *
“Slot”: Depending on the beholder,
the feelings inspired by lightning may
vary from ecstasy to abject terror. An
electric spark whose voltage is around the
100-million mark must kill if it makes
a direct hit, but by interesting youngsters
in the subject they can be helped to
conquer the mortal funk that paralyses
so many of their elders. They should be
encouraged to time the interval between
seeing the flash and hearing the thunder,
which is actually the crackle of a mighty
electric spark. Let them commence at
once to practise counting in seconds. This
is done by checking with the second-hand
of a watch the time taken to count: a
hundred and ONE, hundred and TWO,
etc., up to a hundred and TEN. One
soon learns to do this in just 10 seconds.
Next time there is a storm —and may it
be soon, for just now monsoonal rains
are this country’s most vital need —let
them start their count at the flash and
see how many seconds elapse before the
rumble. A flash of light would take an
eighth of a second to travel right round
the earth, so there is no real mistake in
reckoning that the lightning is seen at
the moment of discharge. But sound
takes five seconds to travel a mile and
nobody need be frightened of lightning
several miles distant. If the intervals
become smaller the storm is approaching,
but so long as they last for only one
second the flash is not less than 1100
feet away. If the intervals increase the
storm is receding and there is nothing
to worry about.
* * * *
“T’gulla”: Thanks to “Wiremu” (B.
26/3/’52) for the solution of an old
problem: The meaning of the appellation
tagged on our mob, the “Toerags,” in
the early ’nineties. Whence it fell on
us, and that it was intended as the limit
in vituperation we knew very well. It is
a relief to find that we were not some-
thing even worse than the Maori render-
ing of “low, dissolute persons.” Our
locality in the old mining town owned
a dusky widow whose possessions that
stand out in memory were a belligerent
black billygoat and a scorching tongue.
When we rocked the former the latter
came into play, with the high note:
“Toerags! Toerags!” Legend had it that
she was a Maori princess and had heroic-
ally rescued a shipwrecked English
captain, who married her and, forsaking
the sea, brought her to the Victorian
goldfields, where, departing this life, he
left her to tend her goats and combat
the “Toerags.” The name stuck, and
when we graduated to guernseys our
football team was the “West Side Toe-
rags.” Our bitter East Side rivals we
dubbed the “Piemies.” Can’t tie this
up with “W.’s” “Pie on,” denoting ex-
cellence. Far from it; it contracted from
“Piemelons,” the lowest order of fruit
from the Chows’ gardens, which in turn
derived from “Pye Allen,” the name of
their big chief and football hero, in the
process of small-boy word-coinage.
Jfc * * *
“Sebak”: Kipling must have had a
dog like Nelly when he rhymed of the
difficulty in trusting yourself when all
men doubt you. Her owner insisted
that Nelly was half-fox. It showed
in the shape of her head, in
her slinking gait, and especially in
her method of stalking rabbits through
scrub or long grass. The final proof was
Old Jim’s word that he had seen the fox
mate with Nelly’s mother. But over the
years only one man conceded that such
an alliance could have been genetically
possible, and I lost even his support the
moment I mentioned Nelly’s fertility in
bearing three litters of pups. “Hybrids
can’t breed” was the crushing final shot.
But now an authority on canines,
Robert Kaleski, has issued what
he claims to be authentic pedigrees
of both kelpie and cattle-dog. The
sheep-dog, he avers, was bred from
the offspring of a smooth-haired Scotch
collie that had mated with a fox. A
pup was brought to Australia and paired
with a black-and-tan bitch which was
believed to have a strain of both collie
and dingo bloods. Her name was
Kelpie; hence the name for the estab-
lished breed. The Australian cattle-dog,
Kaleski contends, was evolved from a
crossing of mastiff, greyhound, Scotch
collie and dingo —with a dash of Dal-
matian and kelpie to produce the “blue
heeler.” And to think I’d let myself get
to the stage when I was allowing blokes
to howl me down because Nelly’s bar-
sinister just couldn’t have happened!
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A public-works surveyor
was doing some “altitude work” a few
miles out of Auckland (M.L.) and with
his assistant was engaged in a large
paddock in which a bull was grazing. The
bull, feeding in rich grass, took no notice
of the two men. At lunch-time the w pair
adjourned to a grove of trees. Before
going the surveyor took off his coat and
vest, hung them on the eye-end of the
theodolite, and placed his hat on top.
The object lens of the theodolite was
facing the bull —and the sun. The bull
looked up, saw a three-legged man staring
at him and winking ; which was too much
for any self-respecting bull to tolerate.
A couple of seconds of preparatory
ground-pawing and he charged.
* * * *
“Emjai”; At our mining township the
postmaster was a kindly soul, and on
pension-days he would make it easy for
some of his invalid clients by taking along
their money after hours. Calling on
Widow Beck, he found her doling out an
apronful of cabbage-leaves to Buttercup.
They chatted
a while until
Buttercup had
emptied the apron
and finished
nuzzling for
more. “TU be
moving along
now, Mrs. Beck,”
said the post-
master, “if you’ll
just sign here.”
“Aye, but where
be my notes?”
asked the widow. The postmaster didn’t
have thenp neither did the widow, and
it seemed that the green notes had gone
the way of the cabbage-leaves. A hasty
interview with Buttercup was fruitless.
Relays of recovery-experts followed her
movements for the next few days, but
Buttercup kept the secret of the vanished
quids, and whether or no her milk was
the richer the postmaster was certainly
the poorer.
ABORIGINAL FISHERGIRL.
Over her basket she hangs her black curtaining
hair,
Curved hand enclosing the curved bright beauty
of fish.
Sunlight on silver gleams, as light reflects the
light.
Living in sunlight, she ponders the mystery
Of her dark self, and light from the dark of
the sea.
N.S.W.
PIXIE O'HARRIS.


DON’T BE AS
COLD os o FROG
IN YOUR OWN HOME THIS WINTER
/
/
(/
i
/
/
/
INSULATE
df
YOUR HOME WITH
SLAGWOOI
No need to shiver this winter—
insulate with B.L Slagwool . . .
keeps your home cosy, warm
and draught-free! Saves fuel,
too!
Send to your local Bradford Home Insulation office for free
Booklet and complete information telling you why and how
you should insulate your home with B,L Home Insulation .
N.S.W. : Bradford Insulation
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
66 Reservoir Street, Sydney
NEWCASTLE: Bradford In-
sulation (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
Clyde Street, Hamilton
VICTORIA: Bradford Insula-
tion (Victoria) Pty. Ltd.
422 Collins St* Melbourne, C.l
8.L41
QUEENSLAND: Bradford In-
sulation (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.
87 Eagle Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (S.A.) Ltd.
Shell House, North Terrace,
Adelaide
WEST AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (W.A.) Ltd.
14 Elizabeth Street. Fremantle
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
M
c
I
I?:.-:.---
gipld
mssm
m
masmm
rtV! >v
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ESTABLISHED 1858
SPECIAL hs
OISTIUES
*««E«t St Flf
Tom, tco «
Your guests
will know
you serve
the best
«•>**
sdf
sd
&
fs
N.I.W.
DISTRIBUTORS
TOOTH & CO* LIMITED
df
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FLAT-OUT ON THE ATOM.
The coming British atomic
test hereabouts has not by any
means had unanimous approval
in the British Press, as a few
samplings will show:
“New Statesman" writer: “If
anything makes nonsense of our
defence plans it is this kind of
waste.... To make the whole
crazy pattern perfect, at the
same time that we are scraping
together our last pennies in order
to produce our British bomb, the
Americans, apparently, are to
test their new, even more terrible
H-bomb in the Pacific. For
all we know our bomb
may be entirely outdated
before it is even tested. I
should have thought that the
one American monopoly we had
no reason to resent was a
monopoly in the production of
atomic weapons.”
“Manchester Guardian ” •
“Britain is wasting millions of
pounds on duplicating work
done in the United States..,..
Not only money is being used
but quantities of scarce material
and skilled labor. And all for
what? So far to produce one
bomb or torpedo or whatever it
may be, compared with the
hundreds being produced in the
United States.”
London “News Chronicle" •
“The news [of the coming
atomic test] will not thrill many
hearts in Britain... .The whole
of British foreign policy is based
upon Anglo-American associa-
tion. While that association
lasts, surely it is better that
America, which can accept the
industrial strain of making atom-
bombs, should bear it. If the
alliance breaks down, will the
possession of a few atomic
weapons make Britain safe? If
Britain has made new dis-
coveries or invented new
techniques in the field of atomic
weapons she should impart them
to her ally, but she should not
compete with America in this
kind of production. Neither her
security nor her proper role in
the alliance demands of Britain
such expenditure of her limited
resources.”
Atomic Cheers
A few cheers (some of them
muffled) have hailed J, Bull’s
atom:
London Daily Express {of
course): “Britain should devote
herself to perfecting her own
atom-bomb. The British bomb
may even be better than the
American bomb. In that event
there will be a magic change in
American opinion about our
security system, and a willing-
ness to exchange the information
which they once undertook to
give.” [Cables now report —
probably optimistically—that the
exchange is, in fact, being made.
Actually this would require a
dramatic change in American
law; the scrapping of the
McMahon Act.]
The Economist: “The reluc-
tance of the British Government
to reveal information of this
nature [to Uncle Sam] without
in turn receiving details of
equal importance is easy to
understand. And once the
British authorities have gone
to the expense and trouble of
establishing their own land and
sea testing-grounds in the Com-
monwealth, the use of American
testing facilities will have lost
most of its attraction.”
“Time and Tide": “This
country’s [Britain’s] capacity to
speak with authority in the arena
where decisions are made on
world affairs has been gravely in-
hibited in the past six years—
inhibited by economic weakness
(due in great measure to our
efforts in the war, but the world
got tired of hearing our states-
men say it so often and so
forlornly), by moral flabbiness
and by the military inferiority of
not owning and not controlling
the use of any atomic weapon.
The moral flabbiness it is still
the present Government’s chief
aim and responsibility to over-
come and change into the sort of
resolution and fiery drive which
animated us in 1940. The eco-
nomic weakness is being tackled.
A successful test of an atomic
weapon developed in the United
Kingdom will give our Govern-
ment the direct and conclusive
military sanction which, in the
short term, is the most effective
of all.”
Free-enterprise Atoms
Listing blunders of today that
Britain will regret by 1960, a
London “Daily Express” writer
includes “the decision of the
British Socialist Government to
confine atomic research in
Britain to the Whitehall scientists
of the Ministry of Supply and to
ban Britain’s big industrial firms
from any participation.”
Unless the Churchills reverse
this stand “the whole British
A
Julaj
%
—“Washington Post.”
“I GET AROUND!”
Commonwealth will look back
on this as a catastrophic error
capable of affecting generations
of Britons in their standard of
living.”
The writer compares this with
the American practice, by which
big firms such as Du Pont,
General Electric and Union
Carbide have “built vast atomic
plants” and a good deal of the
nation’s atomic research and pro-
duction is in the hands of these
and other private firms.
“In America,” “Manchester
Guardian” comments in similar
vein, “the Atomic Energy Com-
mission gives a standing invita-
tion to private enterprise to
come in and help with the solu-
tion of nearly every problem
that holds it up.
“Nor does national security
seem to have been in any way
endangered by the fact that the
A.E.C. directly employs only
about 20 per cent, of those who
are doing its work, the rest being
on the pay-rolls of some of the
best-known American combines.
“When the day comes that
fissionable material ceases to be
piled up for bombs, a great part
of American heavy industry is
going to be admirably placed
for exploiting the possibilities of
the new power. Apart from the
new plans for submarines and
aeroplanes, for which outside
contracts have been let, four
groups of chemical and utility
companies have now been
brought into the heart of the
po w e r-development problem.
They are adding their own
capital to Government grants to
promote the first competitive
studies in pile-building—to see
whether they can turn out pluto-
nium cheaper than does the
A.E.C., and make power at com-
mercially competitive rates as a
by-product.
“Another group is being given
full facilities for the study of
the waste products of the
plutonium pile—a nuisance and
a dangerous one, which may
soon be turned to a dozen valu-
able uses. Another enterprise,
and only one of many which the
commission is seeking to turn
over to private hands, is the
economic production of zircon-
ium, a metal at present urgently
wanted for the atomic pile which
may become as important in in-
dustry as aluminium or
titanium.”
Atom Omens
Growth of the atomic industry
all round is described by a New
York “Herald Tribune” special
correspondent as “phenomenal.”
He listed the following among
significant announcements and
developments:
Last year Gen. Hoyt Vander-
berg, U.S. Air Chief of Staff,
said that atomic flight is closer
than most people realise. He
quoted data from the U.S.
Atomic Energy Commission and
noted that one pound of U 235
could do the work of 6,000,000
gallons of gasoline.
Two years ago Lawrence R.
Hafstad, director of develop-
ment for the A.E.C., told a
group of scientists that one
pound of fissionable uranium is
equal in energy to 2,600,000
pounds of coal.
What effect will harnessing of
this force have on the world’s
economy?
On Nov. 17, 1951, Great
Britain announced it had de-
veloped the “world’s first system
of house heating” using atomic
energy instead of scarce coal.
The implications are apparent.
Seven months earlier Britain
reported the completion of a
power-house deriving electricity
from atomic fuel. The fuel pro-
duces steam, which is converted
into power.
Recently the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission reported
that atomic materials had been
used to generate power for
electric lights and machinery.
Another announcement noted
that American atomic scientists
have produced “useful electric
power” from atomic energy.
Pointing the sweeping implica-
tions there may be in all this,
Lt.-Gen. Leslie R. Groves, U.S.
war-time head of the atomic
energy project, declared recently
that development of atomic
power for industrial uses may
well lead to nationalisation of all
major industry, commerce and
transportation.
Various Voices.
A ustralian High Commissioner
Thomas White : “If a quarter of
the investments which have gone
to other countries had been
invested in the Dominions there
would be no shortage of food
in Britain.”
The Archbishop of Canter-
bury, Dr. Fisher: “Television
for schools is nothing less than
a perfect disaster. It drives
another wedge between the
teacher and the pupil, and is bad
for the children, who ought to
be looking to the personal con-
tribution of the teacher for their
own personal growth. It is a
dangerous thing when they think
they can be educated by
mechanisms from outside.”
Eisenhowet (quoted by
Senator Dufj): “When people
speak to you about a preventive
war, tell them to go and forget
it. I have come to hate war.
War settles nothing.”
Lord Malcolm Douglas-
11amilton: “The air-power of
the United States is keeping the
peace today, but it is reported
in America that Russia is build-
ing six jet interceptors for every
American one ; two jet-bombers
for every American one; MIG
15 aircraft are being produced
at a rate of 6200 a year; and
twin-jet bombers at a rate of
750 a year. The R.A.F. is not
in a position to stop these twin-
jet bombers from getting
through.”


Missing Friend.
TO RICHARD THOMAS HICKEY for-
merly of Eastwood Sydney in the State
of New South Wales but now of parts
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
HENRIETTA HICKEY of 263 Maribyr-
nong Road Ascot Vale in the State of
Victoria has filed a Petition for Divorce
against you in the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria which Petition is numbered No.
1442 of 1951 on the ground of wilful
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you in-
tend to defend this suit you must enter
an appearance at the Office of the Pro-
thonotary Supreme Court Law Courts Mel-
bourne on or before the Nineteenth day
of May 1952 Should you fail to do so the
suit will proceed in your absence and you
may be liable to pay the costs of the Peti-
tion A copy of the Petition and Citation
may be obtained by you without charge
on application to the Petitioner’s Soli-
citor, whose address is hereunder.—M. M.
OORMAN, LL.B., of 422 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Public Notices.
TO CHARLES EDWARDS formerly of
Merredin Hotel Merredin W.A. —TAKE
NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia P. No. 45 of 1951 by
HERBERT EDGAR PELLEW and DES-
MOND in which the Plaintiffs’'
claim is for (a) A declaration that a
Partnership existed between you and the
Plaintiffs in the terms of the document
set out in the Schedule to the said Writ
of Summons (b) An Order for Dissolu-
tion (c) That the affairs of the Partner-
ship be wound up (d) All necessary
account*! and enquiries (e) A Receiver (f)
Such -tw*ther or other relief as the Court
may deem fit AND THAT it has been
ordered that service of the Writ of Sum-
mons in the said action on you be effected
by this Advertisement If you desire to
defend the said action you must within
35 days from the publication of this ad-
vertisement inclusive of the day of such
publication enter an appearance at the
Central Office of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia Perth In default of
such appearance Judgment may be entered
against you. DATED the 28th day of
March, 1952.—J0HN H. O’HALLORAN,
89 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitor
for the Plaintiffs.
I, CHRISTOS CASTRISSIOS, of Greek
nationality, bom at Viaradica, Cirigo,
Greece, resident 39 years in Australia,
now residing at 24 Campbell Street, Syd-
ney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act. 1048.
CINZANO
sdf
SWEETondDRY
****
lBib
sS
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST JOHN WALSH formerly of
No. 36 Styles Street Leichhardt. —TAKE
NOTICE that IVY WINIFRED WALSH
has filed a Petition for Divorce (No.
3894 of 1951) on the ground of your de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Twenty-seventh day
of June 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
ALLAN UTHER & COMPANY, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 350 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALLAN RADFORD.—TAKE
NOTICE that EVA MARY RADFORD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 561 of
1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney
by the 27th day of June 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. TEAKLE, ORMSBY St
FRANCIS, Solicitors, 3 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
w
ftorttNoa
,*a*&SAtuMjnu^
AIDING AUSTRALIA'S ADVANCE
No. 3 of n Series
m
mm
m
wm m
m
lilii
m
m
M
as
m
Hi
Uarrickville, NJi.W H otto «/ several Davit* Coop faeUritt throughout Australia,
Powered by
for uninterrupted production
sd
Essential to Australia’s development, vital to Australia’s Defence require-
ments are the products of Davies Coop Cotton Spinners, Weavers,
Bleachers, Dyers, and manufacturers of Tyre Cord, Canvas and Underwear,
To the problem of continuous output, despite power restrictions,
BOEAUST has contributed the
skill and experience of Fetter
engineers, famous throughout the
world for Diesel engine design and
installation. BOEAUST can solve
your power problem with efficient
low-cost diesels.
m
Mi
*
Now in operation at Davies Coop
(NS.IV.) Pty. Ltd., Sydney two
FETTER type "SSs/" 400 b.h.p., and two
type ”SS6,“ 600 b.h.p. Superscavenge
diesel engines, all operating at 600 r.p.m.,
direct-coupled to Brush Alternators.
BOEAUST is
part of the
Associated
British Oil
Engines Group
. . . now pro-
ducing the
largest number
of industrial
diesel engines
in the world.
(national!
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence Street, Sydney 368 Collins Street, Melbourne
Distributors in all States.
Sundry Shows
"Saint Joan."
Shaw said once: “I hope my
works are never made into text-
books to make me as hated as
Shakspeare.” One of them has
been made into an object of
school entertainment or educa-
tion or something, and Mel-
bourne Princess has been packed
from floor to ceiling, largely by
schoolchildren, and the remark-
able thing about it is that the
kids appear to listen absorbed to
the long and complex argument
Shaw puts into the mouths of
English generals, French
courtiers, princes of the church
militant, inquisitors and hang-
men, though it is highly unlikely
that they understand it.
Probably the children have a
romantic conception of the
“Maid of Orleans” —the very
thing that Shaw set out to
destroy—and the spectacle of
June Brunell, clad in tights and
speaking in a peasant accent,
snapping her fingers at kings,
lords, executioners and arch-
bishops in the environs of
castles, cathedrals and torture-
chambers, fulfils it.
Which isn’t to say that William
P. Carr’s production was on the
line of a Christmas panto. It
was thoroughly sincere—more
so even than that of Sybil
Thorndyke when she did it at
the King’s. The famous trial
scene, in which Shaw explores
every avenue of political and
ecclesiastical gerrymandering,
and puts into the mouth of the
inquisitor the longest speech ever
accorded to one actor, was
intensely tragic.
As the Maid June Brunell was
sensitive and sympathetic. Shaw
would probably have liked her,
and also Reg Gillam’s Dauphin,
silly, wise, weak and skittish and
with an extraordinarily long
nose. John McKiever was a
sturdy, robust figure as the Earl
of Warwick, Bruce Growl gave
all the subtle stupidity of the
Bishop of Beauvais and Owen
Evans the emotional stupidity of
De Stogumber. Reg Dell, who
had most of the doings with the
Maid, was a delicious Dunois,
and his lovely voice made music
out of Shaw’s words. Harry
Starling’s Brother Martin was
good.
The last scene in which all the
characters of the drama reappear
from the shades to confound the
Dauphin lying muddled on his
royal bed was as effective as the
trial scene.
"Daphne Laureate."
With the best intentions, Mel-
bourne University’s Tin Alley
Players put on this work of
James Bridie at the Union
Theatre to boost the fund for
the restoration of the burnt-
down Wilson Hall. It is to be
hoped that the restoration won’t
be as commonplace and ordinary
as the play.
Bridie isn’t at his best in this
story of the titled English lady
married to a man old enough to
be her grandfather who solaces
herself with boozing, and who is
as big a bore when lit up and
blithering in a Soho cafe as she
is when sober and functioning as
a lady in the garden of Sir
Joseph Pitts’s home. The
characters she meets when drunk
she doesn’t recognise when sober,
except a romantic young Pole
who falls in love with his
conception of her.
Bridie may have been trying
to show up English snobbery or
he may not have been able to
see outside it, but he certainly
wrote a poor play. It is gener-
ally conceded that a good play
can be acted badly, but that it is
impossible to act a bad play
well. If so, Wyn Roberts
achieved the impossible by act-
ing the young Pole extremely
well. John Haynes was also
good as a Lancashire man whose
associational love of human
beings earns him a dozen rebuffs
a minute.
Harpsichord and
Violin.
Eva Kelly, violinist, and
Nancy Salas, harpsichordist,
combined at Sydney Con. to
present sonatas by Marini,
Corelli and Bach, and, with the
piano replacing its ancestor,
works by Goossens and Turina.
The sonatas by the two
Italians, who were predecessors
of Bach in writing for the fiddle
(although Corelli was for a
time a contemporary of the
German), are each distinguished
by faultless taste, a rare beauty
in the slow sections and what
was for their age an extraordin-
ary understanding of the capa-
bilities of their instrument.
Especially from Corelli came the
form of the violin sonata, the
basic principles of which are
accepted at the present time.
In these two works, replete
with rhythmic charm and
deliberative lyricism, the violin
gains much from the light tone
of the harpsichord. It can sing
without the competition of
heavy percussiveness which the
piano too often gives. Here
both performers were in com-
plete unison, a feature which
also distinguished their render-
ing of Bach’s Sonata No. 2,
though here a closer equality
was achieved.
In both first sonatas by
Goossens and Turina Miss Salas
demonstrated the need in con-
temporary works for the violin
or an accompaniment of some
weight. Both pieces are the
work of fine craftsmen, though
in each case the technique of
sonata-writing is well in advance
of the quality of the thematic
material.
“Cauboy”: The blokes in
“The Sentimental Bloke” in
Laurel Martyn’s Melbourne
ballet (B, 26/3/’52) were not
tonsorially correct according to
the prevailing fashion. Unless my
memory is faulty male hair was
worn low down over the fore-
head and terminated in an
upward curl like a Manly
breaker just above the eyebrows,
the hat being worn well back to
display the coiffure to the best
advantage. Nor was “the beano
where I lobs along” done in the
right spirit. Dancing partners
held each other in a close clinch,
foreheads and noses pressed to-
gether, and slowly and decor-
ously gyrated with expressionless
faces. There was none of this
modern licence and the men did
not wear sissy-looking pumps,
but good, solid boots—no doubt
for quick action,
4* 4* 4*
John Palmer has an exhibition
of 20 paintings—mainly land-
scapes—of the Snowy Mountains
hydroelectric scheme at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney. In the
main they are rather thin and a
little chalky, and indicate that
the raw earth in those parts is
predominantly pinkish. “The
Great Excavation (Munyang)” is
a pleasant composition with an
effect of space and distance;
“At Perisher” and “Source of
the Tumut” have a little more
depth and substance in them
than the others, and “Tumut
Pond Stores” makes a gesture,
anyway, to the grandeur of
mountains and mists. Drama —
the ingredient one might most
expect in such an exhibition —is
the most conspicuous absentee.
4* 4* 4*
There has been a change in
the title of the Stanley Coe
Gallery in Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, it having decided hence-
forth to call itself the Peter
Bray, but there is no change in
the art of Francis Lymbumer,
whose paintings and drawings
decorate the walls of the renamed
showroom. Lymburner’s style
is pleasantly limp as ever; if he
is a master of anything it is of
understatement. The formula he
has picked up has so little refer-
ence to Nature or to his own
experience of it, that nobody
would be hurt by “Girl Un-
dressing,” “Nude,” “Wicked
Fairy” or “Girl in Undies.”


The WILD CAT COLUMN
City Electric Light Cos. (Bris.)
/ Dividends
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.t
j? £, £,
1946.. 163,251 5 J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 127,407 1,979,297
Written off debenture exes., £715.. 1,980,012
Net additions reserves, £120,938.. 2,100,950
1947.. 159,047 5£ p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 130,473 2,129,524
Added debenture exes., £Bl6 .. 2,128,708
Net addition reserves, £149,022 .. 2,277,730
1948.. 198,486 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 157,847 2,318,369
Net addition reserves, £158,041.. 2,476,410
1949.. 260,779 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 182,401 2,554,788
Net addition reserves, £188,593.. 2,743,381
Added intangibles, £7116 .. 2,736,265
1950.. 114,432 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 215,268 2,635,429
Added intangibles, £8922 .. .. 2,626,507
Net addition reserves, £215,199 .. 2,841,706
1951. . 296,495 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 280,673 2,857,528
Added intangibles, £7558 . . . . 2,849,970
Net addition reserves, £274,962 ..3,124,932
1952.. 513,089 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 384,696 3,253,325
t After deducting intangibles (now £134,203).
Equity interest in this well-handled
public-utility undertaking centres firstly
in the security aspect, secondly in pros-
pects of capital and income gains from
new share-issues at par and fractional
lifts in the dividend rate, and thirdly in
development of subsidiary interests
against the day when the Government
might decide to take over the generation
and distribution of electric current. At
the moment the co. and the Government
are running smoothly in double-harness,
and there is nothing to suggest that the
Government could, or would, give the
public cheaper and more efficient service.
The co. is the operative part of the
big Government-controlled scheme for
supply of electric current throughout
south-eastern Queensland. It also holds
a long-term franchise covering the Tweed
River district (N.S.W.). The ord. div, is
anchored by legislation at 2 p.c. above
the rate for Commonwealth loans
voluntarily subscribed during the pre-
ceding year. A moiety (1 p.c. on capital)
is allowed for reserves, and the Govern-
ment fixes the selling-price of electric
current accordingly. After sending
£274,962 net to the renewals account, etc.
(now £2,704,064), last term’s £513,089 of
profit was £3392 more than the bare
amount called for under the co.’s fran-
chises —the previous year’s profit was
£72,379 short of the mark. The div. was
lifted from 5\ p.c. to 5i p.c., and for
the current term the rate will be 5f p.c.
Since the rise in costs has overtaken the
last tariff increase, the co. has asked for
a further lift in selling-prices.
In October last 1,328,945 new £1 ords.
were issued at par, one for six, thus
lifting issued capital to £9,302,618 in
20,000 6 p.c, and 125,000 7 p.c. prefs.
and 9,157,618 ords. There was £926,392
of the new capital to come when the
books closed. Also the debenture debt
was increased by £1,500,000 during the
year, raising it to £4,312,000, costing on
the average 3.68 p.c.—in May, 1951,
£600,000 was raised at 3i p.c., most of it
being left with the underwriters, and just
before the books were ruled off a £600,000
4j p.c. cash (£100,000) and conversion
(£500,000) offer resulted in £1,400,000
being subscribed.
The next table illustrates the rapid ex-
tension of the undertaking, etc,;
1950. 1951. 1952.
Capital .. .. £4,659,403 £5,966,546 £8.376,226
Debentures . . 2,012,000 2,812,000 4,138,885
Sundry creditors.. 569,407 872,255 1,053,622
Final divs. . . _ 148,587 206,950
Property, plant,
mains, etc. .. 8,782,013 10,643,197 12,934,057
Stocks .. . . 746,726 1,207,283 1,602,788
Book debts, etc... 342,369 566,001 1,474,677
Shares subsid. co. 100,002 500,000
Cash, etc. .. 115,262 140,431 517,484
Last term £2,290,860 was spent on plant
and extension of mains, etc., stocks in-
creased by £395,505, book debts by
£908,676 and shares in the subsidiary by
£399,998. Share- and debenture-holders
put up an extra £3,736,565 and £181,367
was added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors.
More share and debenture capital
(amounts not yet disclosed) will be called
for during the current term, but capital-
issues control has refused to sanction the
full amount the board has asked for. The
co. has protested to the Federal Treasurer,
and is being supported by the Queens-
land Government, which has approached
the Prime Minister—there the matter
stands for the present.
The subsidiary, Queensland Industries
Pty., was formed in September, 1950. It
(1) acquired coal-bearing leases, now being
tested, on the West Moreton field; (2)
bought two sawmills, one at Peachester,
which has commenced operations, and
another at Landsborough, which is be-
ing modernised; (3) purchased Scott’s
foundry and engineering works at
Ipswich, which reports a successful year
and is being extended ; (4) took up clay-
bearing lands on which a pilot brick-
plant is soon to be erected; and (5)
threw oif a subsidiary of its own, Queens-
land Constructors Pty. This grandchild,
which now has orders on hand aggregat-
ing some £3,000,000, was one of the
successful tenderers for the Tully Falls
hydroelectric scheme, has erected a
number of sub-stations for C.E.L., and
hopes to show a small profit when its
books are ruled off at June 30 next.
Queensland Industries Pty. is not ex-
pected to reach the profit-earning stage
for some time yet.
Under the co.’s Queensland franchises
the Government can exercise its option
of purchase on February 1, 1954, or
annually thereafter. To enable the co.
to plan with confidence for the future,
the board has asked the Government for
a firm extension of its franchises for 15
years from the date mentioned.
At 225. the £1 ords. return 5.2 p.c. on
a 5i p.c. div. basis. The 7 p.c. prefs. at
255. yield 5.6 p.c. The 6 p.c. firsts seldom
appear on the market.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
f-~ Dividends To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1942 .. 41,423 8 p.c. 121 p.c. 37,390 4,033 219,406
1943 .. 44,101 8 „ 121,, 37,391 6,710 226,116
To staff fund, £IO,OOO.
1944 .. 47,642 8 p.c. 121 p.c. 37,391 10,251 236,367
To staff fund, £IO,OOO.
1945 .. 59,237 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 14,528 250,895
1946 .. 51,830 8 „15 „ 44,709 7,121 258,016
1947 .. 76,328 8 „15 „ 44,709 31,619 289,635
1948 .. 87,737 8 „15 „ 44,709 43,028 332,663
1949 .. 89,530 8 „15 „ 44,709 44,821 377,484
1950 . . 70,868 8 „15 „ 44,709 26,159 403,643
1951 . . 78,910 8 „15 „ 53,491 25,419 429,062
1952 . . 72,187 8 „15 „ 53,490 18,697 447,759
The slip of £6723 in last term’s profit
is surprisingly small in view of what
has happened in the retail trade over the
last six months. Here is how the board
itself sums up developments:
Despite a very substantial increase in sales
for the first ten months of the year, the
effects of further drastic reduction of gross-
profit margins by the State price-control
authorities, combined with large increases
in operating costs, particularly wages, has
had the effect of reducing net profit
The very apparent buyer resistance to high
prices on the part of the shopping public,
coupled with the deflationary policy of the
Government in its restrictions on credit,
was reflected in a contraction of turnover
for the last two months covered by the
report. What the ultimate effect of the
Government’s policy of restriction on im-
ports will be remains to be seen.
To ensure timely delivery of seasonal
lines, local wholesalers and retailers have
had to order overseas from six to 12
months ahead. Also there was some extra
buying in anticipation of the Royal visit,
which was interrupted by the death of
the King. Meanwhile, a world-wide
slump in textiles developed, more shipping
space became available, and textile and
other imports began to arrive earlier and
in greater quantity than anticipated.
At the same time bank and other credit
tightened, the currency of outward drafts
was reduced from 90 days to 60 days, and
buyer resistance began to stiffen, partly
in anticipation of price-falls, and largely
because rising food, transport and other
costs, including taxation, were beginning
to mop up surplus spending-power in
the hands of shoppers. One expression
of this combination of rising costs and
a cautious public was a trek toward
lower-priced goods; another was the
sluggishness in trade to which the board
refers. To meet current commitments
some traders offered goods at cut rates.
Then came the balance-of-payments
crisis and restriction of imports, the full
effects of which will not be felt for some
time, because most traders are well
stocked. Small importers and textile
manufacturers are likely to be hit hardest.
The large retailers have been able to
make internal adjustments to meet the
new situation, which should ultimately
give fresh impetus to local textile and
other manufacturers. Trade turnovers,
however, cannot be expected to keep on
expanding at the same rate as of recent
years, and might even get into reverse
gear. Obviously much will depend upon
what happens in connection with wages
and other costs, which will partly depend
upon the Government’s success or other-
wise in its commendable efforts to con-
tain inflation.
McDowell’s, which specialises in
medium-priced goods, has a reputation
for shrewd buying and careful budget-
ing, reserves exceed paid capital by
£86,488, the financial structure is sound,
and shareholders have never failed to
receive a div. during the last 32 years,
the average being over 13 p.c., with the
rate steady at 15 p.c. for the last eight
of them.
Last term gross earnings (£834,141)
stepped up by £121,263. Exes. (£761,954)
gobbled all the gain and £6723 besides,
thus emphasising the threat from rising
costs and the need for greater flexibility
in price-control. The £72,187 of profit
covered the small pref, div. (£800) and
20.2 p.c. on ord. capital as against 22.2,
23.9, 30.3 and 29.7 p.c. back to 1948.
Of the 15 p.c. div., 5 p.c. is labelled bonus.
The background at the moment is so
fluid that it is difficult to say exactly
how the current term will pan out.
The figures at which assets appear can
be accepted with every confidence, the
board says: —
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £302,726 £302,726 £361,271 £361,271
Overdraft . . 15,619 20,808 28.031 23,487
S’dry creditors 200,177 165,970 210.411 246,645
Tax reserve . . 129,425 122,509 154,069 175,906
Final div. .. 29.673 29,673 35,527 35,527
Freeholds, etc. 371,836 378,330 383,108 405,550
Stocks . . 344,829 350,271 415,912 582,450
Book debts .. 192,299 166,730 211,112 179,895
Investments . . 47,502 47,400 98,172 13,142
Cash, etc. . . 7,735 11,694 19,104 18,654
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903 90,903
To meet the year’s net additions of
£22,442 to fixed assets and £166,538 to
stocks —the latter appear at the lower of
cost, replacement or market selling-
values —die co. drew upon investments
for £85,030 and increased the amount
coming to outsiders by only £31,690 net.
The drop of £31,217 in book-debts reflects
the slacker trading toward the close of
accounts.
The £1 ords., which reached a peak of
81s. 3d in 1951, recently sold at 56s. 6d.,
giving a return of 5.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
distribution, or 4.4 p.c. should the rate
drop to 12| p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 45s. 6d.
Rosalia Preserving
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1941.. 55,348 12 p.c. = 48,000 7,348 139,011
1942.. 53,720 12 „ „ 48,000 5,720 144,731
1943.. 54,552 10 „ „ 40,000 14,552 159,283
1944.. 55,751 10 „ ,,40,000 15,751 175,034
1945.. 63,360 10 „ ,, 40,000 23,360 198,394
1946.. 64,504 10 „ „ 40,000 24,504 222,898
1947.. 66,124 10 „ ,,40,000 26,124 249,022
1948.. 65,986 10 „ ,, 40,000 25,986 275,008
Share premiums, £47,706 .. .. 322,714
1949.. 82,301 12i p.c. = 50,000 32,301 855,015
Share premiums, £2294 .. .. 357,309
1950.. 91,566 12i p.c. = 62,500 29,066 386,375
Share premiums, £50,000 .. .. 436,375
1951.. 131,682 12J p.c. = 63,542 68,141 504,516
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508 at Sept. SO, 1951.
Well-ribbed, efficient and enterprising,
this co. turns out a wide range of high-
grade canned fruits, jams and condiments,
etc., from three factories in Victoria, two
in N. S. Wales and one each in S. Aus,
and Tasmania. Historical features are
steady growth of the undertaking, reflected
in earnings, a long run of satisfactory
divs. (average over 11 p.c. during the
last 33 years), sweetened with periodic new
share-issues, and a well-balanced financial
structure. In its incessant assault upon
costs, the co. has provided its workers
with the most modern plant and equip-
ment available ; and almost as much has
been written off as has been spent on
plant over the last three years.
To help finance factory additions, etc.,
including a new tomato-processing unit at
Tatura (Vic.) and a new warehouse at
Richmond (Vic.), as well as carry more
stocks and book-debts, 200,000 new £1
ords. have been issued at a premium of
10s. each over the two years to the close
of last accounts —one half was gathered
in Sept., 1949, and the other half in Aug.,
1951. On the last lot the share-premiums
(£50,000) and all but £888 of the capital
were in hand when the books were ruled
off. Thus the issued capital is now
£600,000, on which 12£ p.c. will call for
£56,682 less profit than claimed last term.
Although the share-premiums make a
\1\ p.c. div. worth only 8| p.c. on one-
third of the capital, the new issues have
been in the nature of bonuses to share-
holders because of the high price the
old shares commanded in the market.
Last term production decreased, but
the value of sales rose by 31 p.c., due
partly to rising prices and partly to the
working-down of stocks. So, despite
the rise in costs, the board was
able to show £40,116 more profit at
£131,682. That was 25.9 p.c. on average
capital as against 18.3, 20.5, 16.5, 16.5
and 16.1 p.c, back to 1946. The div.
was kept at 12£ p.c., leaving more to put
on the shelf than was distributed. The
£504,516 of reserves, which also benefited
by £50,000 of share premiums, is subject
to £30,508 of intangibles.
Stocks, which appear at or below cost,
were reduced by £173,223. The money
thus released, together with an extra
£42,754 from trade creditors and the new
share capital, etc., was used mainly to
wipe out the overdraft (£212,833 at the
previous balance) and carry more book-
debts (up £100,964): —
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Capital .. £400,000 £495,411 £500,000 £599,112
Overdraft . . 124,471 63,938 212,833 —
Credit’s, etc. \ lg2 737 237,234 851,280
Tax prov’s’n j { 260,38 1
Final div. . . 40.000 50,000 62,500 63,542
Property . . 252,128 280,190 316,013 325,279
Plant, etc. . . 118,373 126,199 125,291 119,430
Stocks . . 474,632 611,668 896,318 723,095
Debtors . . 146.265 152,733 144,432 245,396
Cash, etc. . . 287 349 376 117,495
Goodwill, etc. 30,531 80,508 30,508 30.508
When the books closed the co. was obvi-
ously trading well within its own re-
sources, with enough ready cash to finance
still bigger trading.
Greatest threat to net earnings is the
buoyancy of costs, and consequent
danger of buyer-resistance in both home
and export markets. Recent import re-
strictions will help rather than hinder
the business. The big and difficult
problem is to find an acceptable formula
for stabilising wages and allowing prices
to fall as production increases. If this
can be done real wages would rise in
proportion to the fall in prices, and every-
body, including recipients of fixed-money
incomes, would be better off. It would
call for a community effort to which all
would have to make an appropriate con-
tribution.
Since the close of accounts the pound
shares have been split into 10s. units,
which the market now prices at 275. 9d.,
giving an immediate return of 4.5 p.c. on
a 12-jr p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 18s. sd. a share.
United Provisions, Ltd.
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
, Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1944. .127,471 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 43,971 272,145
1945. .147,617 8 „ 8 „ 112,000 35,617 307,762
1946. .124,723 8 „ 8 ~112,000 1 S 028 0 15 e g5
To staff funds, £4700.. ~J 8.023 315,(85
1947.. 78,360 8 p.c. 7 p.c.102,500 303,916
Staff fund, £2426 301,490
1948.. 62,009 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 298,999
To capital reserve, £19,852 .. .. 318,851
Currency profit, £19,186 .. .. 338,037
1949. .106,319 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 22,819 360,856
Unexpd. reduction reserves, £3123.. 357,733
1950.. 50,137 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 324,370
Unexplained reduction, £1691 .. 322,679
1951.. 76,255 t 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 315,434
* Subject to intangibles, £290,890 at 30/9/’sl.
t Subject to revision.
Although trading results for the six
months to March 31 last were satis-
factory, the board decided to pass the
interim div. for the current term —2 p.c.
followed by a final of 3 p.c. was paid in
1951. Owing to the tightening of credit
the burden of financing continually in-
creasing stock values and debtors’
balances, etc., now falls mainly upon the
earnings of business itself.
The undertaking has been a disappoint-
ment to shareholders ever since it amal-
gamated the interests of J. C. Hutton and
Foggitt Jones in 1927 ; and it is difficult
to say exactly what lies ahead in the way
of profits and dividends. Largest
thing of its kind in Australasia,
the group owns 13 warehouses and 15
factories, which turn out cured hams and
bacon, canned meats and smallgoods,
etc., throughout Australia and New
Zealand. There has been no lack of
demand for these products, which have
also won an export market. A large
part of the trouble has been, and still
is, the effects of keen competition on
both the buying and selling sides of the
trade. Not only are supplies, and there-
fore prices, of pig and other meats
affected by seasonal conditions, but
operators in the export trade have kept
bids high. At the same time wage and
all other operating costs have continued
to climb, steeply of recent years, and
selling-prices, which are largely con-
trolled, have run a bad last in the race,
and the board complains of tax dis-
crimination in favor of co-operatives.
For those on the ord, register, five
out of the 11 years to 1938 were dry
ones, the average distribution for the
period being 2.7 p.c. For the 13 years
to the close of last accounts the average
was 4.7 p,c., the lowest being \\ p.c.
in 1940 and highest 8 p.c. in 1945 and
1946. Price of the f.-p. pound ords.
fluctuated between 6s. lOd. and 10s. for
the three years to end 1941. In the
sheltered war and early post-war markets
earnings showed marked improvement,
and bids for the scrip reached a peak of
245. 3d. in 1947 ; they have since followed
an erratic course, dropping to a low of
12s. 6d. in 1949 and rising to 19s. in
1951. Last week sellers asked 9s. lid.,
at which figure the return would be
10 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 6 p.c.
on a 3 p.c. distribution. The 8 p.c. £1
prefs. (450,000 in a paid capital of
£1,400,000) yield 6.6 p.c. at 245. A
year or so ago they were priced at 31s.
to yield 5.1 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 635, 3d. prefs, and 20s. 6d.
ords. During the year freeholds and
plant were written up by an unspecified
amount and intangibles were reduced by
£351,412 net. This was a book adjust-
ment which doesn’t affect earning-power
of the assets one way or the other.
Last term again saw keen competition
for a reduced supply of livestock, prices
increased, of course, and so did operating
costs, while disturbed conditions in Asia
continued to affect the co.’s export trade.
However, a lift in controlled selling-
prices offset the effects of the squeeze,
and the board was able to show £26,118
more profit at £76,255, which in-
cludes a surplus of £10,475 on sale ot
assets as against £6620 for the previous
year, and was written after allowing
£86,000 (up £43,023) for taxation and
£44,575 (up £5577) for depreciation.
The £76,255 was enough to pay the pref.
div. (£36,000) and show 4.2 p.c, on ord.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt,
Telephones: FA 2X76 (8 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrte
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
£ s. d.
PAID UP CAPITAL .. .. 4,730,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,000,000 0 0
(Used wholly In the business
of the Bank}
BALANCE OF
PROFIT & LOSS A/O .. 208,000 0 0
£0,547,072 10 0
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX, Chairman;
DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT, Deputy-Chairman;
ORWELL PHILLIPS; ROBERT J. VICARS;
ERNEST W. STREET; GREGORY B. KATBR.
General Manager: A, S. OSBORNE.
HEAD OFFICE* 343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE OFFICE* 257 COLLINS ST.
BRISBANE OFFICE* Q.UEEN & CREEK STS.
ADELAIDE OFFICE* 20 CURRIE STREET.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA, QUEENSLAND
and at NARACOORTE, S.A., & CANBERRA, A.C.T.
LONDON OFFICES:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET,
E.C.3.
49-50 BERKELEY ST., PICCADILLY, W.l.
:
• ••
Serving Australian Industry
Lawton Industrial Trucks Ltd. offer Australian industry an
Australia-wide materials handling service, with a complete range of
Fork Lift Trucks . . . mobile and lorry-mounted Cranes . . . earth
moving equipment. They have sales, service and spare parts
divisions in each State—staffed with experts to advise potential
buyers and to provide efficient after-sales service to the hundreds of
present users of their equipment.
LAWTON FORK LIFT TRUCKS
Lawton Industrial Trucks Ltd. are sole distributors for
this famous equipment, the advent of which has done so
much to cut handling costs to an absolute minimum
throughout factories, warehouses and Government
Departments, many of which have wisely standardised
on Lawton. These industrial trucks are manufactured in
Australia for Australian conditions and for this reason
continuity of supplies is assured. Large stocks of spare
parts are held in each Branch Depot
and stocks can be replaced immediately
by same-day air freight from the
Adelaide Factory of the manufacturers!
J. A. Lawton & Sons Ltd.
Si
COLES CRANES
These world-renowned cranes, manufactured in England
by Steels Engineering Products Limited, are distributed
by Lawton Industrial Trucks Ltd. in New South Wales,
Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia. It
is now proposed to commence manu-
facture of this equipment in Australia,
in order to satisfy the increasing
demand for efficient mobile and lorry
mounted cranes in this country.
-*0
NORTH WEST EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
Included in the range of equipment handled exclusively
in Australia by Lawton Industrial Trucks Ltd. are the
famous North West Excavators and Cranes, manufac-
tured by Northwest Engineering Company of Chicago.
v/
Large numbers of these are in operation
throughout Australia. The recondition-
ing and spare parts supply for these
units is one of the major activities of
Lawton Industrial Trucks Ltd.
© Phone or write to your nearest Lawton branch for further details and
specialist advice.
LAWTON INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE . . Rickard House. Hosking Place, SYDNEY. BW 9407.
N.S.W Wingello House, Angel Place, SYDNEY. BL 1444.
QUEENSLAND .. 116 Wickham Street. VALLEY. L 2812.
TOWNSVILLE . . Heatley Building, Stanley Street. 2728.
VICTORIA .. .. 168 Lennox Street, RICHMOND. JA 2161.
SOUTH AUST. . . la First Street. BROMPTON. LU 4746.
WEST AUST. .. 33 Barrack Street. PERTH. BF 1879.
TASMANIA. . . . Electrical and Engineering Supplies Pty. Ltd., 35 St. John
Street. LAUNCESTON. 2169.
NEW ZEALAND . . Cable Price Corpn., Ltd., Quay Street, AUCKLAND.
44-860.
capital as against 1.7, 7.4, 2.7,
5.7, 9.3 and 11.7 p.c. back to
1945. And the 5 p.c. div. was
repeated, though it called for
£7245 more net profit than was
shown.
To meet the year’s growth in
stocks (up £134,224) and book
debts (up £52,277) the co. added
£144,843 to the overdraft, etc.,
and £14,234 to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951.
£ £
Paid capital 1,400,000 1,400,000 1,400,000
Outside
interest .. 1,035 1,432
Overdraft, etc. 531,857 712,443 857,286
Other
creditors . 192,227 192,292 206.526
Suspense
account .. 2,228 850 3,366
Final divs. 46,500 46,500 46.500
Freeholds .. 350,101 351,566 615,669
Plant, etc. 202,966 215,036 305,661
Stock .. 988,917 1,084,837 1,219,081
Debtors .. 398,292 399,551 451,828
Cash. etc... 21,476 36,108 35,906
Intangibles* 642.282 642,302 290,890
* Mainly difference between book-value
and par value of inter-co. shareholdings.
The increases in freeholds (up
£264,103) and plant, etc. (up
£90,625) were due almost
entirely to the revaluation
already referred to. When the
books closed there was 12s. sd.
of outside money in the business
for every pound belonging to
shareholders.
Lake View and Star’s ore
reserves at July 1, 1951, were
estimated at 4,100,400 tons,
averaging 4.72dwt., or 192,000
tons less than the 1950 figure. Of
the shrinkage 112,000 tons was
due to elimination of marginal
ore, which rising working costs
had placed outside the pay-limit.
Although more ore was milled
for the year to June 30 last,
average working costs, excluding
retreatment of old residues,
increased by 4s. sd. to 355. 2d.
per ton. In November last the
figure had reached 395. 7d. a
ton, and has risen further since.
However, sales of gold at a
premium on the free market will
take some of the sting out of the
blow. Last term’s gross rate of
dividend was maintained at
2s. 6d. (stg.) per 4s. share, less
9s. 6d. in. the £ U.K. income
tax. Allowing for this and for
exchange at the current aate, the
2s. 6d. was worth approx.
Is. 7.7 and. (41 p.c.) in Australian
currency. Since the beginning
of 1951 the price of the co.’s
scrip has dropped from 295. to
225. lid. in the Australian
market.
* * * •
For the 47 weeks to March
25 last Hill 50 Gold Mine, NX.,
at Mt. Magnet on the Murchison
field (W.A.), treated 39,870 tons
ore for a recovery of 90020 z. fine
gold, worth £139,476 with the
metal at £A15,492 an ounce.
Costs are not broadcast. The
ore came largely from develop-
ment work, and the recovery was
about Idwt. below the run-of-
mine ore between the 400 ft. and
600 ft. levels, where some 200,000
tons of syd wt. stuff have been
measured up. At 600 ft. and
thereabouts good values have
been disclosed over satisfactory
widths. Interest, however, now
centres mainly in what lies be-
tween this horizon and the
bottom of the new main shaft at
940 ft, The drill has disclosed
some high values in the vicinity
of 820 ft., but shortage of labor
has thus far stood in the way
of development below 600 ft.
For the same reason the new
7000-ton-a-month mill is not yet
working to full capacity. Cos.
has £150,000 of capital to feed
in f,-p. 4s. shares, which the
market prices at ss. each as
against a peak of 9s. Bd. in 1951.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Mining
Areas, NX., is now nibbling at
wolfram leases at Comet Vale
(W.A.), Discussions are in the
preliminary stage, and no details
concerning either the deposits
or the terms on which they might
be acquired are available.
Recently the co. unsuccessfully
tried to revive the old White
Horse mine, Hampton Plains
(W.A.), which first blazed into
prominence some 35 years ago
during the Celebration boom.
Issued capital is in 500,000 ss.
shares called to Is. 4yd. each.
The market prices the scrip at
2d., or thereabouts, as against
Is. 3d. a year ago.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOI IH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH STEPHEN WHEELAN late of Bourse-
—TAKE NOTICE that RUBY HILDA WHEEL. -
has filed Petition for Divorce No. 3617 of J 9
the ground of desertion without just cause -
for three years and upward If you wish to' 0 -
may enter an appearance in the Divorce », ■
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by e
of June 1952 and obtain a copy of the Pen™,
without charge from OSBORNE ALLE- .
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street. Sydney.—J. DOLGRA-
Registrar. -
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOLTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN FREDERICK HUDSON_( formerly hn
as JOHN FRANCIS NOONA-' , T g on th
FREDERICK NOONAN) late of Manly > £
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that DAGMAR “"J
HUDSON (formerly known as HAGMAR
NOONAN) has filed a Petition for Divorce N.•
of 1951 on the ground of desertion withou 1
or excuse for three years and upward tJie
to defend you may enter an app Sydney
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King • t he
by 16th day of June 1952 and obtain a Vf
Petition without charge from R- J • • pnUGHAN',
Solicitor, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney—J.
Registrar.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
The opening parade of the Show was
not such a brave spectacle this year as
last because the sun didn’t shine to help
it along. However, the fitful rain was
a nice symbol of a drought broken and
overcome by exhibitors of some of the
lushest-looking livestock shown to date.
The Governor-General spoke the opening
words —from the official stand, not the
usual dais in the centre of the ground.
The official party even had to retire from
the two front rows because of driving
rain. People were caught wearing quite
the wrong thing: light summer dresses
because of the intense heat earlier, and
even sandals. Saw Mrs. Lennox Bode
in the Members’ Stand looking well and
suitably dressed as usual in a pin-spot
suit; Claudia Beazley in a charming
black-and-white check silk and a wide
black hat—vulnerable to the weather, but
undismayed. Best-dressed for the occa-
sion was Mrs. Bob Ashton, who wore
raincoat and small blue waterproof hat.
There seem to be plenty of goods
available now, judging by Show exhibits.
Stoves, for instance, for which one had
to put one’s name on a waiting-list six
months ago, are in good supply. One
novelty in the stove display is the wall-
stove, which has two let-down plates for
cooking which are folded back neatly
into the wall. Quite an improvement on
the old gas-ring for Hatches. They work
by blue-ray gas and are primarily designed
for caravans.
In the horticultural pavilion the garden
displays were delightful. This Letter
liked Bissett’s mossy rock-garden best,
with its fairy pool bearing water-lilies
and housing goldfish, its banks lit by
little clumps of flowering cyclamen. The
flowers looked fresher than at any earlier
flower-show, probably because this is
the first time in nearly 12 months that a
flower-show has struck anything but a
boiling hot day.
In the dog pavilion exhibitors of
Samoyeds and Schnautzers said these
would make good sheepdogs even out
west, which seems strange, since the
Samoyed (which is a beautiful pure white
dog, nearly as big as a Border Collie,
with pricked ears and long thick hair)
comes from blizzardly cold Siberia. The
sombre but engaging Schnautzers come
from Germany (they couldn’t deny it
with a name like that), where their intelli-
gence gets them jobs with sheepfarmers
and the police. Corgis seem to have
increased considerably in numbers, no
doubt because of the Royal Family’s
predilection for them. They are quaint
little fellows. The miniature poodles
are the strangest of dogs exhibited, but
they are so weird and charming the
Letter will say more about them next
week.
Notice in the horse pavilion at the
Show: “Real questions 2s. 6d. Possible
questions ss. Impossible questions 10s.”
Overheard at the Show: Mrs. M.
Cordia (daughter of Minister for Educa-
tion) to small son, “Wait a while now
and we’ll see hundreds of little girls as
a wheatfield.” Small son: “I’d rather
see the piggies!”
One of the most interesting exhibits
of the C.W.A.’s handcraft exhibition is
the Battle of Britain Lace Panel, which is
five yards long and 62in. wide. At the
top it has the badges of the N.Z. Royal
Air Force, Royal Canadian Air Force,
the cap badges of the R.A.F., the
R.A.A.F. and the South African Air
Force, all with their national flowers. All
the scenes depicted have been copied from
actual photography except for the castle
and cottage, which symbolise the part
played in the Battle for Britain by all
members of the community.
Devotion to duty of Lady Anderson
was shown when asked if she were going
to the opening of the C.W.A. conference
at 8 o’clock on Monday, April 21. “Why,
yes, of course,” she answered. “I always
go, and will. But it’s very early, isn’t
it? What are you going to do then, have
breakfast?” There won’t be any need
for spartan early-rising, however, because
the time is 8 p.m., not a.m.
To finish off a week of meetings, the
C.W.A. Conference delegates are to pay
an official visit to the University on
Saturday afternoon, April 26, at the
invitation of the Vice-Chancellor, Pro-
fessor S. H. Roberts. Two young under-
graduates, Judy Gordon, daughter of the
C.W.A. State president, Mrs. J. M.
Gordon and Rosemary Cullen, daughter
of Mrs. W. H. Cullen, State vice-
president, will gather some of their
undergraduate friends to act as guides.
There are some fine pictures of the
Snowy Mountain hydroelectric scheme
at DJ . S smal , art .' allely painted by
artist John p alme ‘ to the
unm echanically-minded are nice pictures
of the Snowy fountains. At the open-
«h n wa^ 0 r zis! o r r ws
Authority) an f Mr Eric er Spo o n er, the
gall w ' as £ „ of charact £ rs of ’
and serious mien hi h denotes
the engineer . Mr s r said , hat the
s Mountains scheme would within
seven rs ide 560 kilowatt s of
which js more , han Bunnerong
can produce and be able als f,
to irrigate 5000 00 more feet o£ water
than the irrigation area Suitably im .
ed b these flgures were Mrs / John
p almer> the artist>s wi£e> who looked
cbarm j n g j n b [ ack and her friend, Rita
B dazzling in white,
„ ■ th McMi ,i an ~ vear .
. . ... McM n, 22 y
°i s 0? ? I r ,T from Ca , s ' le »“
°L
Giovanni” for the National Opera corn-
pany in its oncoming season. Heather
has already had one trip abroad and
plans to go to Italy shortly for further
study in music. She is an accomplished
linguist. Listeners will have an oppor-
tunity of hearing her sing “One Fine
Day” and the ballad “Love’s a Mer-
chant” from 2UW on April 27 when
she competes for the £lOOO Mobil Quest
prize.
Something more about the authorship
of The Young Visiters (mentioned in
Letter last week) is supplied by Mrs. E.
Power, who says that according to “Time
Magazine” (22/10/’5l) Daisy Ashford
now lives in Norfolk, wife of James
Devlin, market-gardener, and is the mother
of four children. Although she has often
felt the urge to write, she says, the cares
of a family have prevented it, but she
still receives a steady flow of royalties
from her childhood authorship and
thinks of taking a trip to America on
their proceeds.
The women’s section of the Australian-
American Association held a Friendship
party during the week which might
appropriately have been called a “Hail
and Farewell” party, as it was to welcome
home three members who have recently
returned to Sydney, and to speed five
others on their way. The wanderers re-
turned were Mrs. M. Cains, who has been
to England and India ; Mrs. S. Gandon,
who travelled through Britain, the
Continent and America; and Mrs. E. S.
Scorfield, who found New Guinea “a
wonderful place for a holiday.” Those
who leave shortly for far places include
Mrs. Cecil Freer, who will sail to England
by the Orion. She will be accompanied
by her husband and by Mrs. E. R. Cox,
of St. Fillan’s, Mudgee. While in Eng-
land they will stay for a while with Mr.
Freer’s sister. Lady Cecil, at Rygate
Surrey. Mrs, Neil Hawley and Mrs.
Conrad Horley are both bound for
America and England by air.
At the reception by the orchestral
committee to visiting conductor Juan
Jose (pronounced with two aitches)
Castro, his wife said that she appreciated
music but couldn’t play a note. Her
father had been a musician, her mother
merely a cultivated listener, and their
marriage was such a success that her
father refused to have any of his
daughters musically trained. Mr. Castro
says he is eternally grateful to him, and
Mrs. Castro seems one of the happiest
visitors we’ve had, so it seems to work
out all right.
A new music group has been formed
to help the finances of the Garrison
Church (where the “Sleep of Prisoners”
was first performed). The group is called
the Concerto da Chiesa and will give its
first concert of chamber music at St.
Phillip’s Church Hall on April 26. The
musicians are giving their services without
charge.
From Melbourne
More than 300 guests were invited by
the retiring U.S. Air Attache, Col, Frank
Gillespie, and Mrs. Gillespie to a cock-
tail party at the Dorchester given to intro-
duce Colonel Gillespie’s successor. Col.
John L. Sullivan, and Mrs. Sullivan, and
to say goodbye to the many friends they
have made since they came to live in this
city. Mrs. Gillespie wore a cocktail
frock of black taffeta which had a band
of white guipure lace edging the strapless
bodice. Mrs. Sullivan’s strapless frock
was of royal-blue taffeta allied with
taffeta in a dusty-rose toning. Among
the many official guests were Sir John
and Lady Latham, Sir Charles and Lady
Lowe, Air-Marshal George Jones and
Mrs. Jones, the U.S. Consul-General,
Henry Stebbins, and Mrs. Stebbins, Col.
J. Kelway, U.K. Military Attache, and
his wife.
Lady Robinson was smart in black
gold-spotted faille and a tiny velvet cap
which had a gold chain around the edge.
Mrs. Keith Morrison’s silver-grey taffeta
frock was trimmed with pearls; her
black straw picture-hat was swathed with
tulle. A tiny red tricorne hat, with the
crown covered with matching ostrich-
feathers, topped Mrs, Harry Cavanaugh’s
black faille frock. Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss
was also in black faille, the deep neckline
embellished with opalescent pearls and
sequins. Mrs. Charles Millet’s taupe satin
frock featured a peg-top skirt; the strap-
less top was splashed with cyclamen
sequins. Mrs. George Urich’s ankle-
length frock was of scarlet faille. Mrs.
Walter Ebstein’s heavy white lace off-
shoulder blouse was worn with a slim
black faille skirt.
The wife of Victoria’s Premier, Mrs.
J. G. B, McDonald, pictured here, was
born in Wellington (N.S.W.), but since
her marriage she has lived in Shepparton,
where her husband has an orchard
property. Most of Mrs. McDonald’s time
is devoted to her three children, teenagers
Mary and John and younger daughter
Heather—all three are still at school.
Mrs. McDonald’s interests are many:
Baby Health Centres, Mothers’ Clubs and
the Orvale branch of the Country
Women’s Association. A lover of music,
she was with her husband at most of the
operas recently presented by the National
Theatre Opera Company.
Lady Latham was hostess at a luncheon-
party set in the boardroom of the
Children’s Hospital, of which she is presi-
dent. To make easier the task of the
Press each guest wore a small tag with
her name on it. These women, who are
seldom seen, do sterling work as head
of the various departments of the hospital.
Members of the committee who assisted
Lady Latham included Lady Murdoch,
Lady Lowe, Mrs. G. R, Stevenson and
Mrs. Edgar Rouse.
Quite a successful achievement by a
modern playwright is “Seagulls Over
Sorrento,” the Hugh Hastings play with
a cast portraying Royal Navy officers
and ratings, and in which some fruity
humor is interspersed with a few solemn
interludes. Among the big audience
which turned up at the Comedy for its
premiere were Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins and Lady Collins, the latter’s
gown of bronze-green taffeta having a
draped skirt and gold sequins massed on
the strapless bodice ; Capt. and Mrs. H.
Beecher, Lady Snow, her white organza
featuring layers of fine black lace ovei
the full white skirt; Mrs. E. L. G. Cress-
well, in a full-skirted white nylon gown
inset with panels of rose-pink waffle
nylon ; Mrs. Graham Nathan, her heavy
black lace gown under white Arctic fox;
Mrs. Medley Ladd, wearing a heavily-
shirred short black chiffon frock ; Gloria
Ladd, in steel-blue taffeta ; Mrs. W. H.
Horsfall, whose grey chiffon frock had a
fully-pleated skirt; Mrs. Maurice Nathan,
in a bell-skirted frock of palest-pink
corded silk; and Mrs. Athol Shmith,
whose crimson velvet short frock had a
strapless bodice, cuffed with fine black
straw.
When members of the Austrian group
of the International Club held their
annual dance the Lower Town Hall was
transformed into a Beer Garden setting.
Tall trees set in tubs were grouped along
the walls, from each comer streamed
colored fairy lights, and on the tables,
covered with checked cloths, candles
glowed from the necks of wine-bottles.
The newly-appointed Austrian Consul,
F. L. Berger, and his wife sat at the
official table with Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
president of the International Club, Mr.
and Mrs. H. Sawyer, Mrs. D. D. Jamison,
Mr. and Mrs. E. Sternberg and Mrs. H.
Metes —the latter is convenor of Nationals
for the International Club. Wearing her
national costume, pretty Sylvia Pent was
among those who served supper: goulash,
spaghetti and Austrian cake. Mrs. I. M.
Jacobsen, also in national costume, was
in charge of culinary arrangements.
Secretary of the club, Mrs. Gwen Har-
grave, chose a black wool dinner-gown
highlighted with gold belt and necklace.
Her sister, Susan Hayward Young, topped
her black evening skirt with a red-and-
white-check blouse.
A very pleasant holiday spent in this
country, which also included a week
in Tasmania, by Mr. and Mrs. Ray Hall,
of Owosso, Michigan, U.S.A., ended with
a buffet dinner-party given by Mr. and
Mrs. Peter Lynch at No. 9 Darling-street.
Mrs. Norman Lynch, mother of the host,
who is travelling to Honolulu with the
departing Americans, was also farewelled.
Mrs. Peter Lynch chose an attractive
ballerina-length frock of satin-striped
champagne-tinted faille. The skirt was
bouffant, and the bodice had a deep fichu
collar. Mrs. Hall’s black-and-gold
brocade frock was worn with an off-the-
face black velvet hat. Mrs. Norman
Lynch’s filmy black lace frock was worn
with a black velvet pillbox beret finished
with black forward-tilted ospreys. Mrs.
E. Haisman’s gunmetal silk brocade
frock had a side drapery. Mrs. O. Smith
wore a corngold cloche, black-feather-
trimmed, with a simple black frock. Mrs.
Don Hutchison’s pale yellow silk frock
featured a yoke of guipure lace; her
small hat was in matching melusine.
The annual Easter Parade of
mam’selle’s own fashions at George’s
was this year notable for the budget-
priced, practical designs, styled, of course,
for the young and slim. The parade
opened with a group of natty ski-outfits;
jackets, trousers and caps, all proofed for
damp weather. Then came styles for
lounging after a day’s run in the snow.
Bright-blue slacks worn with brilliant-red
shoes and a white wool Oxford blazer
captured the hearts of the youthful audi-
ence ; so did a gold corded-velvet blazer
piped with green to match the corded-
velvet slacks. A perennial favorite is a
well-tailored grey suit, but this year a
grey flannel pinafore dress is to be a
basic item in the smart girl’s selection of
clothes for cold days. The changes one
can ring with a pinafore dress are in-
numerable. A gay red blouse or a pale-
blue sweater looks well with grey.
London-tan and emerald-green are just
as good, and a simple white blouse is
also an auxiliary asset. Gem of the
parade was a Stell-Ricks coat in pale-gold
wool. Fitted to the waist, the skirt in
the latest trend was very full, made so
by unpressed box-pleats, and it was
beautifully lined with accordion-pleated
emerald satin.


“Still keeps going
when the rest
have stopped’’
II
.T\
*
♦
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
R X4.9.n
PERSONAL ITEM?
Frank Keith Officer, Australian
Ambassador to Paris since 1950 and pre-
viously the holder of diplomatic posts in
Washington, Tokyo, Chungking,
Moscow, The Hague and elsewhere, is
considering retirement and is making
every preparation. When at The Hague
he had on his staff one Gerald Guil-
liamese, a Dutch gardener, and Gerald is
now planting with pines, cypresses,
maples, oaks and birches a 64-acre
property Sir Keith has bought at
Raminea, three miles from Dover in the
Speck. The house will occupy a com-
manding position overlooking the bay
from which the ex-diplomat, who is 62
and a bachelor, will be able to contem-
plate in tranquillity the world in travail.
In Sydney from New Zealand, Judge
W. C, S. Bainbridge, who practised at
the Bar in Fernland before the second
scrap, wherein he practised with
the R.A.F. in Malaya. A few days
before Singapore fell he got away
to Java, and, with that island be-
coming equally unhealthy, got out of it
in a small gunboat. Unfortunately, his
transport lacked an engine; fortunately,
after days at sea, a ship caught up with
her and towed them to Ceylon. The
year Hitler got his Bainbridge was in
Germany, back with the R.A.F., and was
elevated to a judgeship. Attached to the
Allied High Commission, he sat on some
3000 trials, mostly unpleasant cases of
espionage, rape and murder.
Before he became a Methodist parson,
Rev. R. P. Wright, of Sydney, was an
R.A.A.F. pilot who in War II flew Path-
finders from Britain, gaining D.F.C. in
the process. Demobbed, he joined a
commercial service and flew Catalinas
between Perth and Colombo, over the
Cocos-Keeling atoll; he often waved a
greeting to the cablemen marooned on
Pulau Tikus. It never entered his head
that he might one day be anchored him-
self on the coral atoll —he’s there now,
R.A.A.F. padre, with an atap-roofed hut
for a chapel. It is the first time the lonely
group has had a spiritual adviser. In-
cidentally, for the first time also Cocos
now has white women —R.A.A.F. nurs-
ing sisters. During its 40 years
of occupation the cable com-
pany’s rule was no women allowed on
Pulau Tikus, not even native ladies from
neighboring islands where Governor
Ross ruled. One year the staff included,
on the correct form, in its annual requisi-
tion for necessary requirements, “ten
Japanese laundresses.” It duly reached
London h.q., but didn’t get a sympathetic
reception.
Dead at 67, Admiral Henry Pridham-
Wippell, K.C.8., a worthy member of
the great brotherhood of Devonshire
Naval seamen who have led many a
famous fight since the days of Drake and
Hawkins. In one of the last flight of
Britannia-trained snotties likely to reach
high flag-rank, he joined his first ship in
1901. In World War I he seemed to
have a penchant for picking the wrong
battlewagon and served in two unlucky
ones —Audacious (sunk) and Warspite,
the last battleship to carry a stem gallery
and always in some trouble or other.
But in destroyers old Father Neptune
rode with him all the time, and he soon
became famous after Gallipoli as one
of the best hunters in small craft and as
knowing every cranny of the Mediter-
ranean and the Adriatic like the palm of
his hand. Just before the outbreak of
World War II he had risen to command
the Home Fleet Destroyer Divisions. He
went to the Mediterranean in 1940 as
Admiral Cunningham’s second-in-com-
mand, and in the next two years was the
heart and soul of the defence of the great
convoy routes, with the battles of Mata-
pan and Crete written very clearly into
his record. During the perilous period
from 1942 to the end of the war he was
Flag Officer at Dover. He went on the
retired list in 1947, after a final two years
as C.-in-C. at his battered home-port of
Plymouth.
“Uramao”: New Zealand will be well
represented in the expedition sponsored by
the Royal Geographical Society and the
London Alpine Club, to have a shot at
the 26,700-foot Cho-Oyu mountain, 20
miles west of Everest, this year. They are
H. E. Riddiford and E. P. Hillary, of
Auckland, and George Lowe, of Hastings.
The attempt is preliminary to one on
Everest next year—all three hope to be
included in the big climb.
“C. 8.”: W. Onus, the full-blooded
aborigine who was refused a visa to enter
the U.S. for a display of boomerang-
throwing in Los Angeles, is an excellent
actor, a first-class orator and a writer of
English capable of turning out a dignified
letter of protest touched with humor
against the indignities offered to his race
which would grace any anthology. Presi-
dent of the Australian Aborigines’ Asso-
ciation and a one-time footballer and
athlete of mark, he was in the original
cast of “Moomba,” the aboriginal ballet
which was one of the most distinguished
features of the Jubilee-year celebration.
Plenty of Australian journalists, after
getting the grounding of their craft in
this country, have gone abroad and made
big reputations in Britain and on the
Continent. Selkirk Panton, sketched here
by Prior, carried the idea a bit further.
He left Australia at 19 without any
journalistic training at all, went to Ger-
many to study the language, got himself
appointed to the Berlin staff of the “Daily
Express” and almost immediately found
scoops falling into his lap. At the begin-
ning of 1933 he became his paper’s
Vienna correspondent, with the Balkans
and Poland tacked on to his territory for
good measure. Three revolutions —two
in Austria and one in Greece —came his
way while in that job, and he also sent
out of Vienna the first news of the
assassination of Chancellor Dollfuss. As
Berlin correspondent 1935-39 he covered
the Chamberlain-Hitler meetings,
Munich, the seizure of Austria and
Czechoslovakia and the tense days
before the war. A hasty last-minute move
to Copenhagen saved him from intern-
ment in 1939, but his luck gave out when
the Nazis swooped on Denmark the fol-
lowing year. Result; five years in a con-
centration camp, from which he was
released in time to report for the
NEWSMAN.
“Express” the closing stages of the war.
Since then, the Nuremburg trials, Berlin
again, a visit to Poland and, more
recently, Japan. At present renewing
acquaintance with his father, C. S.
Panton ; future movements undecided.
It is not surprising that London critics
were unanimous in according most praise
to Bendigo tenor William Herbert at the
recent great performance of Bach’s
Matthew Passion at the Albert Hall—his
lovely natural singing always got the most
praise when he sang at Melbourne con-
certs. Dr. Floyd, who taught him as a
choir-bby at St. Paul’s Cathedral, re-
garded him as the most perfect combina-
tion of intelligence and vocal instrument
in existence and used to wriggle with
delight when he sat in the audience listen-
ing to him. Herbert has sung a lot
in England since he settled there in 1947
—at the winter and summer proms at the
Albert Hall, the Three Choirs Festival,
the Edinburgh Festival, the Halle, the
Henry Wood Choir and with orchestras,
societies and choirs all over the country
as well as on the Continent. He was
selected to broadcast to Benelux
countries on the bicentenary of Bach’s
death.
Since the death of the Cattle King in
1935 his son Walter Sidney Kidman,
sketched here by Coventry, has been
managing partner of W- A. Kidman and
Co. and chairman of a swag of pastoral
companies in South Australia, West Aus-
tralia and Queensland. He is also a
director of Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. Born
at Kapunda (S.A.) 52 years ago and
educated at St. Peters College, Adelaide,
and Tonbridge school in Kent, Kidman
has been prominent in racing circles in
CATTLEMAN.
Adelaide for many seasons; he is chair-
man of the Port Adelaide Racing Club
and runs his own stud-farm at Fulham
Park.
“Macnell”: In my days in the insti-
tuition, the accepted—and enforced —
maxim of the gunnery-school at Flinders
Naval Depot was: “You don’t run—you
fly! ” In Commander Richard Innes Peek,
Flinders gets for its new executive-officer
a gunnery-jack of the old school, who
had been appointed to the “gate-and-
gaiters” department there early in War 11,
when its products were badly needed
afloat. Followed a two-year period as
squadron gunnery-officer in cruisers
Hobart and Australia, with addition of
0.8. E. and D.S.C. for what his hot eight-
inchers had done in the Philippines opera-
tions. After the war his lean, ramrod
figure led the Australian Naval contingent
at the Victory celebrations in London.
He’s just returned from the present war,
in command of destroyer-cwm-lightcruiser
Tobruk, in Korea. Relieving him in
Tobruk, Commander I. S. Mesley, also
D.S.C., and also a destroyerman ; he had
a ship called Vendetta in Hitler’s show,
one of those “string, rust and wire”—and
something else contemptibles of
Goebbels’s sneer. Mesley took over
Vendetta after having been in cruiser
Canberra when she got hers at Savo
Island in 1942.
What H. G. Fielding, joint-head
of McWhirter’s, the big store in
Brisbane, knows of shop'-keeping got
him the Australian representation to
the combined Chambers of Commerce
conference held in London last
year. While overseas he took the
STOREMAN.
opportunity of looking over shopping-
centres in the U.K., the Continent and
America. Vice-president of the Brisbane
Chamber of Commerce, he recently
retired from the presidency of the
Retailers’ Association of his State, after
holding a lien on the post for seven terms.
Lowering his golf handicap and vice-
chairing the Brisbane Police Youth Club
take up his out-of-shop moments.
Likeness by Gordon.
Dropped into The Bulletin, Mervyn
Scales, a roving film-maker who entered
the game almost by accident. Going
from Shore to Sydney University, he col-
lected an Economics Degree, had three
years down a coalmine and left for China
on mining business. While he was
in Peking, friends in Hollywood
who knew the great De Mille
asked Scales to bring to the U.S.
authentic material on China, from
which the spectacle-maker hoped to film
an epic. Scales did so (with the interested
help of a warlord’s No. 1 concubine) and,
once in Hollywood, got the film-fever.
Since then he has helped to direct “Flying
Doctor,” made many documentaries for
the N.S.W. Rural Bank on soil-erosion
and bushfire-control; in association with
Chester Wilmot and Damien Parer pro-
duced “Sons of Anzac” ; and after World
War II made films for the Australian
Wool Board, keeping woolgrowers
cut fait with scientific laboratory research
designed to help them and the
British and others with wool production.
He’s now polishing a delightful docu-
mentary made at Merriwa, on the Upper
Hunter (N.S.W.), which deals with the
training of country kids for competition
in riding events at Sydney Show in the
opinion of present writer the film is a
corker.
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 80, Arthur Clarence Cutten,
a former chairman of the Port Adealide Racing
Club and for 42 years a member of the Adelaide
Stock Exchange.
At 74 in Melbourne, Herbert Wade Kent,
hon. curator of Chinese art at the National
Gallery. An ardent collector of Chinese pottery
and porcelain, he used every penny he could
save from his salary as a clerk with Butterfield
and Swire, Shanghai, to buy up pieces; after
30 years he ended up with a magnificent collec-
tion valued at £20,000, and now worth much
more. On his retirement to his hometown,
Melbourne, he presented them all to the
National Gallery. The trustees provided hand-
some housing and made him honorary curator,
so he never lost his treasures. In 1938 he was
made a trustee.
In Sydney, at 66, Harold Roy Meynink
(“Jim” to all hands), chairman of directors of
the Country Producers’ Selling Co. and, earlier,
owner of Minargo Station in the Collarenebri
(N.S.W.) area. A big man with a big heart,
Jim at the end owned Ballimborah Station,
out of Moree, running a widely-known Merino
flock thereon, Son John is wool-buying in
Sydney.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
*Du- €a£-
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
GJP.O., Box 4058, Melbourne, G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
f
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece,
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses,
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 12*% Sales Tax
sdf
sd
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
ftowiti
;-n»rrr
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING II TO GRAZCS
CATTLE AT SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW.
“C. Punch”: Judges in the
various beef-cattle sections at
Sydney Show faced the job of
examining about 900-head, rang-
ing from massive stud bulls to
cavorting yearlings. Much has
been said about the quality of
the stock after a year of drought,
floods and bushfires, but few
studmasters allow themselves to
be caught by such visitations,
trouble from which can be pre-
vented or guarded against by
foresight.
Measured against the back-
ground of Australia’s shortage
of beef, not only for export but
for the home market, the parade
of fat steers and stud cattle at
Sydney proves that in breeding
at least we’ve got the foundation
of a huge cattle-industry. In
Brisbane in August there will be
another great parade of stud
stock, and at Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth and lesser shows
throughout the year still more.
Nobody could look at the
Sydney line-ups without being
conscious of the gap between the
breeder and the meatworks.
Most of the large herds are in
North Queensland, the Territory
and north-west West Australia ;
the gap is the absence of beef-
cattle from the average farm.
Far too many square-miles of
good fattening-country go to
waste, and there is, as yet, no
attempt at the system of range-
breeding and stall- or farm-
fattening practised in the great
meat-producing countries of the
world.
The R.A.S. cattle show poses
the question of where our
breeding achievements are get-
ting us. After 20 years of R.A.S.
shows it is clear that, though the
agricultural and pastoral
societies and the breeders do
their level best, beef-production
is not increasing. The answer lies
with the Governments and the
people, for the breeders and
show societies can do no more at
present.
The entire beef-cattle industry
is now in a somewhat frighten-
ing position between stagnation
and failure—except in the actual
breeding of stud stock it is not
progressing.
Without the studs it would
collapse overnight. That is why,
in a sense, the winning of show
championships is not as im-
portant as having the numbers
of stud animals on show increase
year by year, and their quality
improve steadily with the in-
creased numbers. This in itself
has proved a wonderful educator
—few men buying stock today
for herd-breeding purposes will
buy a champion or a champion’s
get just because he is a
champion. The sire to improve
the herd may have all the rib-
bons about file place, but he is
no good unless he conforms to
the type that will do well in the
particular environment and im-
prove the herd selected for him.
So much experience has come
out of shows in the past 25 years
that cattlemen now have an in-
stinctive eye for the right sires
and dams, for improver progeny,
and for standards which indicate
the secure breeding-line as surely
as does a navigation-chart a
ship’s course.
A judge walks into a cattle-
ring with all this in mind and
proceeds to make his selections.
If he comes from abroad—and
the Sydney R.A.S. has wisely
made a habit of inviting over-
seas judges to its rings—he
brings to the job a kind of
double outlook made up of his
own country’s standards and a
swift appraisement of the general
run of beast which greets his eye.
At Sydney one bull is champion
and another runner-up. The
same two beasts are paraded at
Brisbane in August, maybe, and
a different judge reverses the
awards. Neither judge is at fault.
It is just that very often the
difference between the two is so
slight that a few months’ time
and another expert eye make a
change.
Clinton Tomson, brought
from Chicago (U.S.A.) to judge
Shorthorns, told those around
him his reasons for selecting the
various winners. It suggests that
the R.A.S. might consider having
a portable microphone in the
rings and asking each judge to
give his findings in a dozen or
so words,
Herefords.
Judge R. Wilson, of Calliope
(Q.), quickly made it apparent
that anything with an off mark
was out. Such faults cost one
or two young bulls awards,
There was little doubt about the
champion bull. Golf Hill Gos-
hawk, a 23-month-old from the
Victorian Biddlecombe stud. Full
of character and beautifully
made, he was an example of
early maturity and went very
close to 20001 b., an enormous
weight for a bull of his age. The
stud also showed the junior
champion, Golf Hill Gladstone,
a low - set, thickly - fleshed
youngster with great promise of
development.
Hays Bros.’ Bexley (Narro-
mine, N.S.W.) stud won the re-
serve with B. Tornado, Not
quite two, this bull was im-
ported in dam and has developed
to a deeply sprung, well-set
youngster of splendid color and
deportment. He will be heard
of again at cattle shows. Junior
reserve went to a Bexley bull,
Runnymede Skymaster, shown
by Mrs. R. Morrow, of Cassilis
(N.S.W.). Only 18-months-old,
Skymaster has everything except
a full back-line.
Poll Herefords.
J. C. Tanner, from Willow
Tree (N.S.W.), found himself
judging lines of cattle whose
quality, for the most part, was
well up to that of former years
and in some instances better.
The bulls were a particularly
fine lot and the differences
between winners and runners-up
often very fine indeed.
Deepfields Foley, a two-year-
old of the Milton line (sire M.
Mulwala, dam M. Coral), justi-
fied his reserve championship at
Melbourne last year by develop-
ing sufficiently to have the edge
on everything in Sydney and
collect the tricolor. He stood for
K. G. Luke, who runs a promis-
ing stud at Romsey (Vic.).
D. and W. Carnegie’s Kil-
drummie Stratton 2nd came up
from his owners’ Riverina stud to
win the junior championship and
be runner-up to D. Foley for top
honors. Also of Milton blood,
he is but 18 months old, well-
fleshed and a proud walker. Salt
Creek Emblem, shown by the
Salt Creek Pastoral Co., of
Terang (Vic.), was reserve junior
champion.
Shorthorns.
The Fairbairn people were
just a mite lucky in their
championship for Woomargama
Paladin. He might have come
out of an American mould for
Shorthorns, and it was obvious
that the American judge, Clinton
Tomson, couldn’t get past him.
Paladin stood square on all
points, right down low to the
ground, all beef and prepotency.
He seemed too shapely to be
true, on our standards, but to the
judge he was the winner.
Paladin’s triumph was the
more pronounced for having
occurred in a splendid showing
of Shorthorns, perhaps one of
the best in Sydney for all-round
quality and improvement. He
probably beat the reserve
champion, Wongala Delegate,
on color. W. Delegate came
from the 18-21-months class,
bred by J. Kemelfield, of
Woodend (Vic.), whereas the
champion, a get of the famous
Coonong Napoleon, is just over
two years.
The Kyalla property, Tow-
rang (N-S.W.), had the junior
champion, Greenwich Cavalier,
a son of Kirkton Dictator (imp.)
from a dam with Coonong
blood. He just pipped the
Fairbairns’ Woomargama
Warrior, who was a little
rougher.
Poll Shorthorns.
These cattle, like the
Aberdeen-Angus and Red Polls,
are designed for an important
part in that future when every
farmer will run a few head of
beef. Just now they’re making
headway in the north, where
they are proving themselves
excellent improvers for both
pure herds and in crosses.
Again the American judge
sought his own national stand-
ards, though it was pretty well
evident all the way through that
breeders are keeping to Scottish
lines. The happy medium was
found in Prospect Field
Marshal, a roan of outstanding
appearance, and he won the
championship for A. Langmore,
the Jondaryan (Q.) breeder.
Mackinnon Bros., of Dandaloo
(N-S.W.), had the junior
champion, Bogan Image, which
was also reserve to Prospect
F.M., and they also showed the
reserve junior champion, Bogan
Highlander,
Aberdeen-angus.
The little blacks paraded
before John Niven, all the way
from the well-known Gloagburn
stud, of Tibbermore (Scot.)
Niven judged a parade whose
quality was below that of
some line-ups of recent
years. The black polls have
not quite fulfilled their early
promise of popularity in this
£Ti£>
“D’ y’ still love me, Janet ?”
country, which is hard to
understand, for they are ideal for
the tablelands and their docility
and beef qualities fit them for
small properties.
Booroomooka, of course, was
well to the front, either with
winners of its own or with its
blood-lines in other winners.
H. G. Munro has practically
searched the world for breeders
to build up his line, and the
value of his work is beginning to
show out. It was fitting that he
should parade the champion,
Booroomooka Splendid, another
of those fine sons of Booroo-
mooka Hector, though there was
little between Splendid and the
reserve. Wallah Templar, even in
breeding. Closely pressing both
of them was the junior
champion, Wambanumba Uther,
from the Tout Estate at Young
(N.S.W.), which measured with
the senior bulls generally but
missed on one or two fine points
apparent only to a careful
judge. Booroomooka won the
reserve junior championship
with B. Unfurl, a son of the
famous B. Ossian.
Devons.
Devons were limited in
number as usual. The wide-
horned breed is never prominent
in show-rings, and this year ex-
hibitors were confined to
familiar names like Havilah,
Banool, Glen Moan, Ban Ban
and Table Top. Havilah Civil
Servant 3rd collected the tri-
color, with Table Top Hero 18th
in reserve after he’d won the
junior championship over
Havilah Midas 50th.
Red Polls.
These dual-purpose cattle have
nothing like the numbers north
of the Murray which they en-
joy south of it, and Sydney line-
ups are inevitably small. Among
some four or five exhibitors, the
Mt. Parry cattle practically
swept the board, showing
champion (Dictator) and reserve
(Phillip), and sharing most of
the other prizes with Towri
(Vic.) and Arrow (N.S.W.).
_ T _ . “ ..
Need for information,
“Lichens”: C.5.1.R.0. itself
isn’t allowed to engage in direct
extension-work with the farmer,
and if the States do not co-
operate in helping the spread of
research results, much valuable
work is wasted.
It is insane for C.5.1.R.0. to
evolve new and more efficient
methods of pasture-improve-
ment, sheep-breeding or orchard-
irrigation if nobody knows
about them. The usual abstruse
record in the scientific journals
is rarely seen by the farmer, and
in that form most of the value of
the research is not obvious.
C.5.1.R.0. must popularise its
research findings and have an
outlet for such material through
the States, otherwise the work it
does on agricultural matters
isn’t worth two-bob as far as
increasing land-production is
concerned.
Bee-stings.
“Dee Dee”: That article on
the toxic properties of bee-stings
(B. 26/3 / ’52) interested me.
Was unloading some sealed hives
from a lorry when one bumped
against the lorry and opened.
My helper was covered, I wasn’t,
particularly my bald head. On
this the enraged bees concen-
trated and, well stung, I was
racing for the river when some-
one Anew a blanket over me.
I must have got 50 stings, and,
though in great pain, suffered no
swelling. Know nothing about
antibodies in the bloodstream
and hadn’t previously been stung
for 50 years. I’m 65 and appar-
ently immune to the poison, and,
if that article was right, ought
now to be immune to
rheumatism.
Trace Elements.
“C.S.”: In south-east South
Australia minor element defi-
ciencies, such as zinc, coppei
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
There is a new sunspot group on the move, but it is as
yet a long way from its active position and may change a
great deal by the time it reaches that point. As predicted,
the cyclonic condition over Arnhem Land carried rains
into the northern drought areas. The now-vanished southern
sunspot group had an influence on this, but the available
data is too scanty for decided statements. Weather changes
leading to initial winter rains along the southern littoral,
where the season may be late but good when it does begin,
are apparent at time of writing.


vli
EYE LOTION
Jbr inflamed Eyes and Eyelids Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co M Pty„Ltd., King Street, Sydney.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices S
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
AND PERTH
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly
;
a®® * rff
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Fergnson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC UGAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Missing Friend.
ESTATE OF GEORGE SHELDON
SMITH, DECEASED.
WOULD any next-of-kin of the above-
named or any person having knowledge of
the present whereabouts of same, please
communicate immediately with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Public
Trust Office, Napier, New Zealand? It is
believed that the deceased was a son of
STEPHEN SHELDON and ANN SMITH
{nee BURGESS), and that he resided in
Manchester, England, before arriving in
New Zealand about 1905. He may have
resided in or near Sydney, Australia, for
some period about thirty years ago.
Elements of an Industry ... no . 3
CARBON is one of the most widely distributed of the
elements, for it is an essential constituent of all living
matter. Carbon appears in the crystalline form as diamond
graphite and in the amorphous form as charcoal. Combined
with other elements it gives innumerable chemicals, all of
which are vital to our existence. Carbon atoms readily join
with each other, and with those of other elements. They
will link up into rings, form long chains of atoms like
strings of beads, and even branch out to make complex
three-dimensional molecules. The study of carbon com-
pounds is so important that it has become a specialized
branch of science known as Organic Chemistry, Hundreds
of thousands of different molecules have already been made
from carbon atoms in conjunction with those of two or
three other elements, such as hydrogen, nitrogen and
oxygen. An almost infinite number of new ones remain
to be discovered by the organic chemist.
Since 1856, when Sir William H. Perkin made the first
synthetic dye, mauve, the manufacture of dyestuffs has been
a focal point of the organic chemical industry. The dye-
stuffs made by 1.C.1. are carbon compounds, and recent
1.C.1. research into carbon derivatives has resulted in such
epoch-making discoveries as new anti-malarial drugs, new
textile fibres like “Ardil,” and “Gammexane,” a
revolutionary insecticide.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
,L 17.8.14
INTERNATIONAL HAR VEST ER- B U 11D ER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
-i - ~
(A
Si
v
sprout- * • • .. *i*
•*®3rr. •"
«kS
#S^5
tt*S -
VVOT
sr.4 v
3! .
9/4
%
m
"to*-
is
I
m?'-
/
W?
&
f'S
i lari** * v
mSzr
S&H* _
aP«!
V^r
to
.dSSfsPa*-?
Power that speeds development
Australia’s continued progress and
security depend upon the speedy
completion of vital industrial and
developmental projects. More land
for food production . . . water for
irrigation of land now desert . . .
electricity for power-starved industry
and the further electrification of
rural areas . . . these are essentials
to security.
Every development programme starts
as a land-clearing or earth-moving
project; that is why International
crawler tractors, power units and
matched industrial equipment are
always first on the job doing the
rough, tough, preliminary work on
every conceivable type of project.
Whether it is an excavation for a
single dwelling, the construction of
a major dam or the clearing and
reclaiming of thousands of acres,
International Industrial Power is
ready to handle essential work any-
where.
International Harvester Company
of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(incorporated in victoria)
I.S.A.S. Distributors in all Capital Cities.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
INTftIUTtONAL
IX
1335-24
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial Power
and molybdenum, can be over-
come by treating the country
with very small quantities of
these minerals —in certain cases,
such as molybdenum, as low as
2oz. to the acre.
Air-Griculture Control, Ltd.,
is performing an operation on
pine forests covering 2000 acres,
on the S.A.-Vic. border, based
on this fact. Aircraft are spray-
ing forests which were dying
from “leaf drop,” caused by a
zinc deficiency in the soil. It is
overcome by spraying the trees
with a zinc-sulphate solution.
Trees which appeared to be
almost dead became green and
healthy within a few weeks of
spraying. The pine-trees absorb
the zinc through their needles
and build up a reserve calculated
to last them all their lives.
Beating Lantana.
“W.C.Q.”; Brushing and
poisoning are more effective
against lantana and similar
bushy and creeping pests in areas
of moderate rainfall than in wet
places. In wet localities the best
control is grubbing or bull-
dozing, done when the land is
very damp so that the roots are
dug out. Occasional very dense
patches of lantana full of dead
stuff can be cleared by brushing
a bit at the edge and sending a
fire through in hot weather. It
is necessary afterwards to grub
the stump sections of such
clumps to prevent regrowth.
An effective way of beating
lantana on grazing country is
to understock portion of the
area to get a good stand of grass.
Burn off (with all precautions)
when grass and lantana are dried
up. Very little lantana will
survive, and if ratoon growth is
tackled as soon as it appears the
pest should be eradicated.
Grow Your Own Forest.
“Hav”: In America what are
called tree-lots now form one-
third of the country’s forest
lands. On the average every
American farm has 27 acres of
trees.
Mostly they’re on areas un-
suited to cultivation or improved
pastures. In such positions they
hold the soil against erosion,
prevent gullying, fertilise the
land and store up the moisture
that lowers heat temperatures;
timber is provided for farm use.
Tree-lots would do immense
good in inland Australia. The
best hardwoods are flooded box,
mugga or pink-flowering iron-
bark, river-redgum, narrow-
leafed ironbark, red stringybark
and white box.
On the slopes softwoods like
white cypress, Insignis pine and
Canary Island pine do well.
Flooded-box likes low land
subject to inundations; the
timber is hard, durable and suit-
able for posts. Seedlings of
mugga make sturdy growth under
cultivation, doing well in parts
favored by the best conditions;
the timber is good. Finest speci-
mens of river-redgum are pro-
duced on silt soils of fair depth
with a clayey subsoil; their
timber, when used for fencing,
should be treated with a preser-
vative.
The narrow-leaf type is one
of the finest of the ironbarks, the
timber being hard, strong and
durable. Red stringybark pro-
vides useful timber for general
purposes, and splendid shade
and shelter ; the bark can be used
for roofing sheds. Whether in-
cluded in the tree-lot or not,
white box deserves a place on
every farm on the slopes where
the soil is fairly rich and well-
drained. Its timber is durable
and makes a good fuel. A fine
bee, ornamental, shade and
shelter tree, it is one of the
few eucalypts having some
value as fodder once the leaves
have dried for a day or two.
The timber of white cypress
pine is durable, ant-resistant, and
in great demand commercially.
Insignis pine is a fast grower but
short-lived. Winter rainfalls
averaging 30in. are best for it;
the timber is sought for box-
making. Seeds of Canary Island
pine can be sown broadcast in
areas free from rabbits; timber
strength is superior to that of
other pines.
Trees most suitable for fuel
which can be grown in separate
wood-lots or intermixed with
others include myall, yarran,
belah, white and yellow box and
sheoaks. Yarran is one of the
best western firewoods. Seeds of
belah propagate easily and most
young plants make rapid growth
at the start; the timber serves
for fencing-posts as well as fuel.
Hints for the Farm.
“My”: One way to control
footrot in sheep is to spell a
contagious paddock for 10 days
to a fortnight. In the meantime
isolate and treat the sufferers.
Carefully pare the hoof and put
the sheep through a footbath of
5 per cent, formalin or 10 per
cent, bluestone every 10 days
until the infection clears up.
Then spell the isolation paddock
for a couple of weeks.
“Sundowner”: Strengthen and
proof the beehive roof with
hessian or sacking fixed over the
wood, pulled tight, the cut
edges turned under and tacked
down, and bituminous paint
applied. If tarred roofing-
material is in use give it a dress-
ing of bituminous paint every
two years.
“C.A.A.”; Mycotic dermatitis
in sheep—caused by a fungus
which affects the wool follicles
in the skin, and which is a
common inhabitant of dusty
yards and camps—may be
stopped by an autumn dip. Use
11b. of bjuestone to 50gal. of
water and dip the sheep for at
least a minute. Although useless
for advanced cases, this dip will
check mild outbreaks.
“Bill C.”: Junk-dealers in
Queensland are paying up to
10s. each for worn-out radio-
accumulators and car-batteries.
The lead is reclaimed and used
in new batteries.
“Wilco”; Should your watch
be accidentally soaked with
water, put it into pure alcohol
and keep it there until you can
reach a jeweller. There is every
chance that he will be able to
put matters right.


Get split-second
blade change
\
I
(1
a
with the handy
Gillette
DISPENSER
LESS TROUBLE —No unwrap-
ping. Blades always ready
for instant use—just flick on
to the razor with the thumb.
CONVENIENT - No need to
remember to buy blades every
few weeks. Each Dispenser
contains 20 Blue Gillette
Blades, sufficient for months
of shaving.
FACTORY-SHARP —Each blade
is protected with a film of
special invisible rust-resisting
oil, and held so that nothing
can touch the edges until
they are used.
NO EXTRA COST— you pay the
regular price tor the Blue
Gillette Blades —there is no
extra charge tor the Dispenser.
Dispenser, containing 20 Blue Gillette Blades 9/-.
Blue Gillette Blades in packets, 10 for 416, 5 for 2/8.
'Good mornings' begin with Gillette
fsd
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP TAS-
MANIA— In Divorce.
TO JEAN ELIZABETH CARTLEDGE
formerly of 487 Main Road Glenorchy
Hobart.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the Petition of WILLIAM
CARTLEDGE of Bagdad in Tasmania
Labourer praying for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion In
default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the Petition
and pronounce judgment in respect
thereof your absence notwithstanding
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purposes aforesaid within thirty (30)
days after the date of this publication an
appearance must be entered at the Prin-
cipal Registry at the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart. —R.
W. FOALE, Principal Registrar. CLERK
WALKER & STOPS, 116 Collins Street,
Hobart, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
HONGKONG
Yes/
a
'll
■•• P '■
o
, </
vfoo c a>"t=s*
<=7
«sc
£&«£
FLY DIRECT BY QANTAS TO
Hong
Kong
IN 48 HOURS
“ Saves my valuable time flying by Qantas —and, of
course, time means money. I like the way Qantas
do things on the Hong Kong Service —fine food,
excellent service and personal attention.
Nothing’s a trouble. And if you’re a tourist
the days you’ll save will give you more
leisure for pleasure in this fascinating
Oriental City.”
Regular weekly services from Sydney by modern Qantas
Skymaster. Consult your travel agent.
fsd
MEB
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD.
(Inc. in Queensland) QC **
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S NO.I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Feminine figures are being flat-
tered too much by present fashions
in jumpers.”— Women’s magazine.
They give them false impres-
sions of themselves.
•I* -I* 4*
“There are 109 many yes-men m
Australian politics.” Brisbane
preacher Rev. T. Rees Thomas.
We could have done with a
few more at the last referendum,
4* 4* .4'
“American man is divided in three
parts —successively he is a slave of
his mother, of his wife and of his
daughter.”— French film-director Jean
Renoir.
This must Gaul him.
“You can pick a married man by
his haircut these days.”
— Women’s magazine.
He never has a bob.
* . 4* 4*
“A woman is annoyed if a shoe-
salesman begins by offering her a pair
of any size above 3.” — Trade journal.
But it’s when he gets to a six
that she has a proper fit.
“Like a true Scot, he kept the
importuning stranger at arm’s length.”
—Short story.
Naturally he didn’t want to be
touched.
4* 4* *i*
“The history of the human parcel
goes back to 1907, when a baby was
sent by express post.”
— ‘‘S. M. Herald /’
With present-style handling it
would need to be a bouncing
baby.
4* *l*
“The Prices Commissioner said that
increase in beef price was ‘pretty
stiff.’ ”
Meat is a tough problem as
it is.
<}< 4* 4*
“What has happened to all the
bottle-ohs?”
—Sydney “D.T.” correspondent.
Rather, what has happened to
all the bottles?
Mate of Mine.
When, in the sessions of sweet,
silly talk
There dawns a warm and
foolish little lull
My friend intrudes, with voice
as soft as chalk :
So tactful, learned, sensible
and dull.
When we are bitter he consoles
us quickly
With lolly-tasting sympathy,
a blend
Both sugar-sweet, delectable and
sickly —
Save, save. Oh! save me from
the Candied Friend!
But when we’re stricken he is
stricken too.
And mumbles angrily, and
glares about
To see if there is something he
can do.
And curses us for fools, and
helps us out.
Then, like an infant brought in
to recite.
He fluffs his lines but gets the
actions right.
NEIL MILLAR.
Putting on An Act.
[Two characters who have
lately achieved considerable fame
have decided to supplement their
not-inconsiderable emoluments
as couriers by accepting an
engagement in variety as
patter-comedians. The follow-
ing script has been prepared for
their forthcoming stage debut.]
“Well, well, well! If it isn’t
‘Peter! ’ ”
“Say, ‘George,’ what’s the big
idea, referring to me in inverted
commas? Anyone might think
I didn’t even exist.”
“Well, do you?”
“Now I come to think of it,
‘George,’ I suppose I must be
just a disembodied spirit. But
it has its advantages.”
“You’re telling me! But
what’s wrong with your right
arm, ‘Peter?’”
“Oh, same old trouble,
‘George’—lugging those full
sugar-bags around to you
know where. It’s cruel! It’s
become stretched so much I can
scratch my ankle now without
bending. As it is, when I’m
Talking along with a full load
I’ve got to bend over like a light
fishing - rod when a big
drummer’s being played on it,
all so that the bottles won’t be
dragging along the ground and
.SidBU\c£
“Cost me six-bob on th ’ blackmarket.”
wear the sugar-bag out. They’re
worth a deener each, you know.
If my arm gets stretched any
further with the weight of the
whatsthises I’ll be treading on
my hand, and people will be
mistaking me for the original of
a Dobell portrait.”
“Well, you could walk with
one foot in the gutter.”
“Yair? And get pinched for
jaywalking or something.”
“That would be funny, ‘Peter,’
after peddling the you-know-
what openly for years, and never
a cop within a few horizons
whenever you’ve been unloading
the stuff at the door of an un-
licensed joint in daylight. But
even if you were caught you’d
have nothing to worry about—
how can they charge anyone
who hasn’t a surname? You’re
not an entity without one.”
“Are you insinuating, ‘George,’
that I’m a nonentity? Let me
tell you that I’ve been presented
at court,”
“Misrepresented, you mean.
But I’ve been a bit worried
lately, ‘Peter,’ about my partly-
mysterious cognominal condi-
tion. I was thinking of getting
married, and it’s embarrassing
not to have a name to give to a
girl. So I got them to look into
my antecedents.”
“X-rays are right enough for
a simple fracture, ‘George,’ but
with a thing like an ant”
“I got the Registrar-General
to see what he could find out
about my forebears.”
“A kind of Who’s Zoo”
“Shut up, ‘Peter,’ can’t you!
It’s no wonder I’ve never been
known by anything but my
Christian-name. You see I
found out that my parents’ sur-
name was Nothing. Apparently
when I first went to school and
I told them my name was
Nothing they just dubbed me
‘George,’ and I’ve never been
known by anything else since.
It’s most annoying. It’s pre-
vented me from enjoying the
grand privilege every other
citizen has of putting in an
income-tax return.”
“That has grieved me deeply,
too, ‘George.’ But what
frightens me at times is that I
really don’t know who I am.
I’ve heard of fellows being
found wandering around in that
condition. Eventually they’re
picked up by the police.”
“What an awful thought!
But have you ever pondered,
‘Peter,’ how completely nonde-
script you and I must be? Yet
I ve never noticed it while shav-
ing. Nobody seems able to
remember, for instance, if I m
sawn-off and fat, with piebald
hair, a cauliflower lug and a
prominent wart on my chin, or a
f fnnt wit u f, flattened
six-toot-sixer with a flattened
conk and a g in S er walrus mo.
who walks splay-footed and
always wears a bowler back on
the ears.”
“Peter”: “My boss has one
peculiarity.”
“George”: “He pays for his
beer with celerity.”
“Peter”: “But lately he’s lost
popularity.” .
“George”: “Yet none of his
wonted prosperity.”
“Peter”: “The Q.Cs. treat
him with severity.”
“George”: “Well, the tales
do have lots of disparity.”
“Peter”: “And certainly little
of clarity.”
“George”: “And even less,
Pete, of sincerity.”
“Peter”: “Which causes much
legal asperity.”
Both:
“We might have to face some
austerity
In future. Oh, blast that Bill
Geraghty! ”
{Curtain)
Bo.
Time and Tied.
“ ‘Why should one talk of a per-
manent wave when it is an ephemeral
phenomenon?’ asks a judge.”
There's little that lasts in this
mutable world.
As the poet has warned us in
rhyme;
Like the statue of King
Ozymandias hurled
To the sands, we’re the victims
of time.
Our hopes and our fame are
ephemeral too
And rarely live on past the
grave
But short though they be they
will mostly outdo
In duration a “permanent"
wave.
For the latter to last will need
many a “set,”
As any shrewd maiden can
tell.
Yet its passing won’t cause her
a pang of regret
If it leads to a good-looking
swell.
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Land
The Press, politicians and even sober
statesmen are bemoaning the drift to the
cities and howling that there are fewer
people on the land today than in 1927,
although there are two million more
mouths to feed.
The plain fact of the matter is that it
doesn’t matter a hoot how many people
are on the land, provided production is
kept at a high level. In 1939 the propor-
tion of agricultural workers to those, en-
gaged in other industries in the U.S.A.
was 9.6 to 36.1 million. In 1951 it was
7.9 to 54.0 million. Fewer people on the
land were feeding more people in the
cities, and anyone who has lived in the
States knows that whatever the American
may lack it certainly isn’t food.
The answer to Australia’s falling
farm-production lies in mechanisation
and sane taxation. Machines have
revolutionised the dairying industry, and
the fact that for the first time in history
no Clydesdale stallions are being exhibited
at the Sydney Royal of 1952 is sufficient
evidence that the horse is a museum-piece
to the majority of farmers. In theory,
although there is still room for expan-
sion of mechanisation, particularly on
“quick-freeze” and “from-farm-to-you”
lines, Australia should be at the peak of
production, with an overwhelming export
trade as well.
Taxation by earnings, as far as farmers
are concerned, is out-of-date. Many
farmers with properties capable of
marketing £3OOO- to £5OOO-worth of stuff
each year limit their production to tfie
£lOOO or £l5OO mark, because, as they
say, “Why work for Artie?”
A recent clearing-sale on the Atherton
Tableland was made to reduce a herd
from the optimum 90 to a minimum 25.
Two sons have left the farm to take jobs
in the near-by township; Mum and
Dad, plus a two-unit machine, can com-
fortably manage the small herd and make
a good living. Fodder lands will go back
to grass, and the maize-paddocks will
soon be green with paspalum. Those
acres could have produced vitally needed
exportable grain, but —“Why work for
Artie?”
More people on the land, with their
incomes limited by taxation to a maxi-
mum comparable with the non-productive
city worker, would only mean the revival
of a peasant class in Australia. Today
we need agricultural engineers to mass-
produce our food-supply and bring Aus-
tralia within the possibility of her
20,000,000 well-fed population.
Allow the farmer to make £lOOO a
year on the normal rate of taxation, and
reduce the percentage of taxation on a
sliding scale for each £lOO thereafter up
to £5OOO. Treat farming as a No. 1
defence priority and allow agri-
cultural-machinery, be it from England,
America or China, to enter the country
duty-free. Then sit back and watch pro-
duction rise!
Who cares if the farmer makes ten
thousand a year? He makes it; produces
it from the soil by his own labor and
knowledge. He is the prime producer
of the nation’s wealth, and unless that
wealth is produced we won’t have a
nation to bother about.—Video (Q.).
Prices
The high cost of living is basically due
to the low value of money, which results
mainly from inflation—the polite term
for a condition of “easy money,” a con-
dition which prevails when the bulk of
the population receives money which has
not been earned by a commensurate out-
put of work, energy and enterprise. It
is not only wage- and salary-receivers
who come within that category, but also
wool-, wheat- and metal-producers and
others.
Until that state of affairs is corrected
no power on earth can prevent the cost
of living rising by ever-increasing leaps.
In the face of shortages, price-control
alone is futile —it is only necessary to
contemplate a few simple instances, such
as Australian cigarettes and bottled-beer.
To ward off the inevitable calamitous
ending to the present trend, the volume
of currency and credit extant must be
drastically reduced, with a concomitant
shrinkage in the bulk of pay-envelopes —
and also of the figures on dividend
cheques. That means that a lot of people
will get hurt, but such operations are
always painful—-the alternative is worse.
What we urgently need is a Govern-
ment determined to take any steps, how-
ever distressful, which are essential to the
economic survival of the nation. The
question is, can such a body ever get into
and remain in power under our present
system? That is where the people behind
the Iron Curtain may have something on
us. Over there, when the quantity of
money in the people’s pockets reaches
embarrassing proportions, it is simply
“liquidated,” and any moaners are
promptly popped into force<Mabor camps
where they do very much work for very
little pay.
That is probably too severe for us,
but it is evasive to advocate expanded
production alone as a remedy when every
economist worth the title knows that the
volume of currency and credit in the
world today has reached such propor-
tions that it cannot be overtaken by any
feasible increase. The only practicable
way out is to reduce the volume.
A boom engenders easy money and
full employment, and those two things,
because of the frailty of human nature,
lead to widespread loafing. That, in
turn, undermines the base of real pros-
perity, and the collapse of real prosperity
is just what a slump is.—H. H. S.
(N.S.W.).
Rules and Regulations
Most of us feel an increasing irritation
at the never-ceasing flood of threats
from official and semi-official sources (B.
12/3/’52), but, after all, laws are made
for the common good. We are all reason-
ably law-abiding, but how many would
be if laws for “piffling crimes” were not
enforced?
Human society cannot function
without discipline. Laws enforce that
discipline.
There is always someone ignorant of
this or that law, and a gentle reminder to
the initiated can be enlightening to the
uninformed. —E. L. H. S. (Vic.).
A.B.C. Talks
That A.B.C. talks should be “dry as
dust” because given by university men
(B. 26/3/’52) is nonsense. Of A.B.C.
speakers over the past 10 years I nominate
three university men as three of the best
and most popular—the late Professor
Dakin, Dr. Pennycuick and Mr. Crosbie
Morrison.
Professor Dakin’s weekly broadcasts on
. “plunkton,” “oomp-buck” whales and
marine animals of all sizes between were
the listening highlight for thousands.
Dr, Pennycuick possesses the happy knack
of dispensing his stock-in-trade with
delightful trimmings, and can make his
points clearly and persuasively—l heard
his lecture in Hobart on “Colloids in Our
Daily Life,” and profit from his advice
on “high-viscosity milling” whenever I
mix such things as flour and water. In
Crosbie Morrison we have an excellent
speaker—educated, cultured, well-spoken,
yet down-to-earth, and so passionately
interested in his subject that he infects
the most inert of listeners.
Scorn of university men is a wide-
spread feeling, but it is absurd never-
theless. Think of the names famous in
various fields, and university-trained
men will dominate —in literature or
science, philosophy or medicine, in ex-
ploration : Shelley, Coleridge, Eliot,
Joyce ; Huxley, Darwin, Jeans, Newton;
William James, Francis Bacon, Bertrand
Russell; Florey and Fleming; Mungo
Park. The list is endless. — Taswegian
(Tas.).
Economic Crisis
In all the clash of economic theories
there are two undeniable facts. The first
is that continued resort to inconvertible
paper currency, such as both political
parties have indulged in since the war,
has never yet failed to lead to the debase-
ment of the currency and worse. The
second economic fact is the well-known
Gresham’s Law, that bad currency drives
out good.
The so-debased currency of so many
countries, in common with Australia, has
in this way driven most of the world’s
gold to America, and is still doing so.
Here in Australia, on top of the
enormous amount of worthless paper that
had already been injected, there was
actually issued in the 26 weeks ended
December 26 last no less than £6,500,000
per week of new currency in the shape
of notes, credit instruments and the like.
That sort of thing renders the country
a good one to import into but a bad one
to export from: and the resultant debit
balance has to be paid for with good
money.
That is how Gresham’s Law works, and
how it has worked to reduce the London
funds. Our currency, in short, has been
systematically debased and we are suffer-
ing from the effects that have uniformly
followed that practice from the times of
the ancient Greeks, Romans and Chinese.
Currency-debasement upsets the
economy of all countries indulging in it,
and creates a fools’ paradise at the
expense of thousands of people whose
pensions, savings-bank accounts, thrift
accumulations (such as life-assurance,
superannuation and friendly-society
funds) and pocket-money are diluted by
the enormous issues of paper currency.
The victimised people do not understand
what has happened to them, but are
stuffed with all sorts of “causes” which
are mainly mere results of the currency
debauch.
If, for example, one could get
sovereigns, as before, for pound-notes on
demand at the bank, it would be found
that the price-level would be less than a
third of the present level, despite all the
so-called “causes.” We are now
endeavoring, with little choice, to extricate
ourselves from the self-produced mess.
But an important question still remains
—are we to continue the baleful practice
of further currency-debasement by the
issue of more millions of paper? —A. H.
Traversi (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 169
Across.
I—Words1 —Words of pronounced difficulty
included in too much talk by the
surf. (11)
7 —Favorite fit of peevishness. (3)
9 —ln the centre like one with a
gilty touch. (5)
10— Musician takes tea with a queer
sentry at the pearly gates. (9)
11— A number showing succession or
place or hubbub, Albert. (7)
12— French on a Laguna lass is show-
ing uncivilly. (7)
13 — Trygve mentioned by Munchausen.
(3)
14— Trees east with a railway system
in Britain. (4)
16 —Swimming-places back this craft.
(5)
18— These are made by the plough
rumpuses on mink. (7)
19 — So surround a six-footer for a
European holy man. (5)
20— Crazy reversal daze. (4)
21 — Turf cad. (3)
23 — Clown endangers the wharf. (7)
24 — A strip of wood with her large
quantity. (7)
26 —Telling off cloth which is wander-
ing. (9)
28 —-Holy spirit to bash the keyboard.
29 — Yankee desire for Oriental dough.
(3)
30 — Paintings and such-like go back
before I have hair women who
are apostates. (11)
Down.
1 — Jim swallows a dull fellow at big
scout rallies. (9)
2 A heavy bundle of papers and
Edward paddled. (5)
3 Feeling an angry objection that is
just about dispatched. (6)
4 Cultivator is in art, for one who
expels bigshots. (11)
5 Local bird is moved in France.
(3)
6 Squash a late meal with news-
papermen. (8)
7 Slip the favorite muscular twitch
against the grain. (9)
8 — Stay condition of the Ku-Klux-
Klan’s victim before being dipped
in feathers. (5)
12 —Mistrusters of first impressions
will no doubt take this clair-
voyance. (6, 5)
15 —Man of Scotland set up a utensil
mistress of Louis XIV. (9)
17 — Pop sheepless like views. (9)
18 — Quadruped 48 inches in length?
(4-4)
22 —Name the part of speech on the
east descendant of Zoroaster in
India. (6)
23 —Ward off an English composer.
(5)
25 —Elphinston, Sutcliffe and their
namesakes prescribed by her-
balists. (5)
27 —Girl mentioned in a manuscript
by 9 across. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 168


MARS MACHINE TOOLS
_ n *4
s~ r ' itr
' •*' ’it*? 1 -" ' ■
«*•*<
.«♦**!- -*•*
i.«—— - - --- '•;■■■
BECAUSE
:>
i m'
■
S*'
5
«
M
m
**MARS” No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
Rapid power traverse, all movements —18 speeds, 16 feeds—
Built-in electrics.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
V
|:
"MARS” New Series "ALL GEARED
HEAD LATHE”
Long angle vee-ways—Wide speed range—Wide gap—Large
hollow spindle—Fitted remote control —Guaranteed accuracy.
EARLY DELIVERY
M
- ::
m
“MARS” TRIPLE DRUM
SANDER
High speed production—Dial load indicators to each drum—
Continuous belt feed.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
a
©
©
©
.
THE HIGHEST STANDARD
of accuracy is used in their construction—
All machines are built to Schlesinger limits.
THE FINEST QUALITY
of materials for Machine Tool construction
is used —All machines are built entirely of
MEEHANITE High Duty Alloy Iron Cast-
ings.
THE GREATEST RANGE
of operational work is incorporated—Long,
deep gaps, Large hollow spindles, Multiple
speeds,
HEAVIEST CONSTRUCTION
compatible with the machines is used —■
Long, wide, deep beds.
THE WIDEST OF SLIDES
THE VERY BEST
IN AUSTRALIA
ALL MARS MACHINE TOOLS HAVE THESE
SPECIAL FEATURES
Individual dynamic balancing Generated, heat treated, precision
lapped gears.
NO IMPORT LICENCE REQUIRED
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
WEST AUSTRALIA: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. SOUTH
AUSTRALIA: W. H. Butler and Co., 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street,
Melbourne. QUEENSLAND: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
TASMANIA: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 145 Collins Street, Hobart. INDIA (Bombay
Province): R. S. Mehta & Co., Ali Chambers, Fort, Bombay. PHILIPPINES;
The Earnshaws Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
BE
B
1
©
Si
©
Sole Licenced "MEEHANITE" Manufacturers in Queensland.
AID AUSTRAL!A-BUY AUSTRALIAN
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD
BRIDGES! VALLEY BRISBANE
JL & O’S. Advert'
