

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS, BUY SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
WHO WROTE “RALPH RASHLEIGH”?
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3799
Wednesday, December 3, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BURGHLEY HOUSE, WHOSE TREASURES ARE WORTH MILLIONS
WHILE exploring the countryside of Britain the traveller frequently passes
imposing gateways that lead to the stately homes built during the more
prosperous period of British history. One of these striking entrances is seen
on the Great North Road near Stamford in Lincolnshire, and the long avenue
through the Lodge gates leads to Burghley House, one of the largest and
finest examples of late Elizabethan architecture in England.
This palatial mansion, standing in an extensive wooded parkland, over-
looking its lake, was built during the latter part of the sixteenth century by
William Cecil, Lord Burghley, Lord High Treasurer to Queen Elizabeth I,
and ancestor of the present owner, the Marquess of Exeter. Although the
existing building dates mainly from 1577, and took ten years to build, it
incorporates remnants from a much older manor house which, in turn, stood
on the site of a monastic cell founded by William de Waterville in 1156.
The architect was John Thorpe, the leading designer of his time, and his
plans of Burghley House are stored in the Soane Museum, London.
The house is built around a large quadrangle, and corridors on the inner
sides obviate the necessity of passing through the rooms to reach other parts
of the great building. An outstanding feature of Burghley is the Chapel,
which has a handsomely ornamented ceiling, and aroundl the. walls are rich
carvings of fruit and flowers by Grinling Gibbons. len hfe-srzeid temale
representing the Ten Virgins, are arranged around the Chapel, each
standing upon an altar and holding a lamp. A seat near the fireplace was
used by Queen Victoria during her visit in 1844.
The suite of apartments she and Prince Albert occupied are known as the
George Rooms, which were prepared in anticipation of a visit by George IV
when Prince of Wales. These rooms, like most others at Burghley House
contain many valuable paintings and works of art. In the birth (jeor 0 e
Room is a superb collection of Dresden, Wedgwood, Dutch and Sevres
China which can be seen on certain days of the week when the house is open
t 0 1 Among °the many other imposing rooms at Burghley are the Mliard
Room, the Ballroom, Queen Elizabeth’s Bedroom, the Pagoda Room all of
which contain valuable paintings by Michael Angelo, Vandyck, Titian,
Velasquez, Rembrandt and other famous artists. Perhaps the grandest feature
of the toteS? is the Great Hall, which is 68 feet long, 30 feet wide and
60 feet high and has a stained glass South Window.


[Learn
raram
mmmm
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAW
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.152) Age......
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/6.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 9).
The Red Page
DID GREENWAY WRITE "RALPH RASHLEIGH"?
By M. H. ELLIS
When, in 1920, the Royal Australian
Historical Society was about to hold an
exhibition in Sydney, a man named
Robert Baxter offered as an exhibit the
tattered, grease-stained manuscript of a
novel called Ralph Rashleigh, or The
Life of an Exile. He represented it to
belong to his wife, second daughter of
Alexander Burnett, foreman of works,
1838-41, under Mortimer Lewis, Colonial
Architect.
Mr. C. H. Bertie, Fellow of the Royal
Historical Society, acquired the ragged
papers and in 1927 lent them to Jonathan
Cape, by whom they were published in
mangled form with an introduction b
Lord Birkenhead, who considered them
“remarkable volume of memoirs.”
Whether it was regarded as a novel o
memoirs, fact or fiction, nobody knew
who wrote it; and its authorship ha
continued a mystery. But now Mr
Colin Roderick, the editor of the two
editions which have been just issued by
Angus and Robertson —one a magnifi
cently-printed limited-edition with an
exhaustive introduction and the other
popular volume with more limited ex
planations—has annotated it in an
attempt to establish the right of Jame
Tucker, a convict of Port Macquarie, to
claim authorship.
The manuscript had an “advertisement’
which bears the date December 31, 1845
It says that the tale was “compiled by
the editor as it fell from the lips of the
person who was at once the author anc
in some sort the hero of the adventures
therein narrated.” It adds that “the truth
of many of the incidents is known to
the editor personally, and that of others
has been vouched for by persons of un-
doubted veracity.” And the public are
asked to receive it “with the indulgence
due to the rude unadorned production of
a squatter.”
Now the story is anything but rude
and unadorned. It is artless perhaps
but it is a work of genius. For nearly
all its course the novel is told with a
buoyancy, a crystalline clarity of phrase,
with an air and in a style which it would
be hard to surpass for its purpose. Its
author has a mind well stored by wide
reading. Its incidents usually bear about
the same relationship to truth as the story
of Robinson Crusoe does to the facts
about Alexander Selkirk. The em-
broidery is the product of yarns invented
in cells or in the local pothouse.
The tale runs the whole gamut of
colonial legend: crime in London in the
days of the Regency and Ikey Solomon,
most famous of fences and procurers ;
smugglers, the hulks, the convict ship.
Botany Bay, the Emu Plains settlement,
floggings galore, bushranging at first-hand
and in the raw, constables burned in their
lair, gangers eaten bare to bone by light-
horsemen ants, ladies most brutally
robbed of their virtue, settlers robbed
of their goods and some of their lives,
flight, pursuit, hand-to-hand fighting with
the horse-police, the gallows, Newcastle
penal settlement, escape from amid the
limebumers, miraculous adventures
among the blacks, and, finally, reform and
respectability, ending in death for the hero,
pierced by seven warrigal spears. All
this in 200 foolscap pages of handwriting,
well laced with the wisdom of experience.
The existence of the manuscript appears
to have received publicity first in the
“S. M. Herald” of April, 1892, which
contains a two-column article signed “The
Spectre,” who described it and wrote;
I happened a week or so ago to meet a
gentleman whose wife’s father, an old
colonist, had held the position of clerk
of works to Sir Thomas Mitchell Whilst
engaged in this capacity he made the
acquaintance of a most eccentric genius,
who had been transported for forgery.
The convict, an architect by profession
and a learned man withal, was employed
upon many buildings in the city, and was
especially occupied over the construction
of the old St. Mary’s Cathedral. Though
his dissipated habits rendered his work
somewhat intermittent, his services were
eagerly sought for, and those interested
took much pains to keep him sober. His
spare moments were occupied in literary
work, and thus it was that the present, as
well as many other manuscripts, came to be
written. When dying the author bequeathed
• s or^s to the gentleman above men-
tioned, and in this way they passed into
the possession of my friend.
Mr. Colin Roderick dismisses “The
Spectre’s” convict architect as a “mythical
individual conjured up by legends cluster-
ing round the figure of Greenway,” and
says that “his assertions seemed un-
warranted.” On the evidence of the hand-
writing in the manuscript, which was
certainly Tucker’s, of the fact that
the story was designated on the title-page
as by “Giacomo di Rosenberg,” the sur-
name being a known alias of Tucker in
his early days, he assumes—perhaps justi-
fiably on the facts known to him and to
those who advised him —that the author
was Tucker and that the book was written
at Port Macquarie in 1845.
But it is not so simple. “The Spectre’s”
story is certainly not about any “mythical
individual” or “conjured up by legends
clustering around Francis Greenway,”
Macquarie’s great architect.
It is a more exact account of Green-
way and his occupations and habits than
has ever been written until very recent
years. It states accurately the fact that
he was transported for forgery, whereas
until the past decade it was always repre-
sented that he had been convicted of
concealing assets in bankruptcy. And it
appears from recent information that
Greenway was connected with the
building of old St. Mary’s. Also Green-
way was specially befriended by those in
charge of the Government Architect’s
Office, and as late as 1836, in his last
year of life, they secured his right
to continue to live in the house from
which he had been legally evicted in
1834. Tucker, the run-down vagrant,
after wide roving, died in the Liverpool
Old Men’s Home in 1866. Gratitude was
not his strong point —vide his trial.
Thus arise the suspicious thoughts
which become more suspicious when one
sees the facsimiles of documents
which Mr. Roderick has printed to prove
that Tucker had written the Ralph
Rashleigh manuscript.
Not only was Tucker’s handwriting that
of an amanuensis who had made copies
of certain of Green Way’s papers, but he
had adopted Greenway’s own peculiar
style of setting out lists of works. Tucker
made these copies while he was em-
ployed in the Government Architect’s
Department, when Greenway’s- son in
1838-39 was renewing his father’s claim
to the property in George-street.
An examination of Ralph Rashleigh
internally produces other striking co-
incidences. In the first place, it is pos-
sible to find prototype events for nearly
everything which happened in the book
during two years within which Green-
way, under the impetus of the
new freedom of the Press brought
to the colony by Wentworth and Wardell,
wrote the long series of letters which
appeared in the “Australian” and from
which we derive most of our knowledge
of his plans arid activities during his
period in Australia.
Though the manuscript is dated 1845,
the author, except on the last page when
Rashleigh is abruptly killed off in 1844,
intended it to be read as taking place
mainly before 1823. This Mr. Roderick
refuses to recognise in face of the evi-
dence. Liverpool is described (1500 con-
victs resident) when “a new church was
erecting by contract” —i.e., before 1822.
At the end the author calls Port Mac-
quarie—founded March, 1821 —“newly
formed.” He treats Newcastle as a
“penal settlement”—it wasn’t after 1823.
Mr. Roderick assumes that the big
drought in the book during which wheat
went to 70s. a bushel was that of 1828,
part of Tucker’s own experience. It was
actually the big drought of 1813-14 as
Greenway would have remembered it. He
arrived when it was at its worst. Simi-
larly, Sydney as Rashleigh is supposed
to have seen it on arrival is not the
Sydney Tucker saw when he came in
February, 1827, adorned with what Bigge
called “the sumptuous splendors” of
Greenway’s architecture. It is the sordid
Sydney which scandalised Greenway when
he arrived on February 7, 1814, and in the
novel’s description are mentioned some
features which most annoyed the fiery
little architect —untidy Garden Island,
which they would not let him adorn with
Byzantine splendor, irregular streets,
mean cottages.
The same peculiarity crops up when
Liverpool is twice described—at two
periods in a single passage. The features
are given of (a) Liverpool when the
church was building under Greenway’s
supervision at the period of the story and
(b) Liverpool as it was about 1825—t0
call attention, without reference to the
plot, to Greenway’s fine hospital, only
finished that year, and to a feature which
they had refused to allow him to improve,
thus condemning the town to commercial
ruin: the snag-and-rock-cluttered channel
of George’s River.
If James Tucker wrote the book its
events owed nothing to his personal ex-
perience, which is singular in a novel of
that type. While he arriyed in February,
1827, the main incidents of Ralph Rash-
leigh all derive from matters which were
current report in Press and public talk
between August, 1824, and May, 1826.
The mutiny in the ship Magnet in
which Rashleigh sailed seems to have
been based on the plan for mutiny
hatched in the Mangles which Was in-
quired into in Sydney, August 19, 1824.
The theatrical performances in which
Rashleigh was supposed to have taken
part took place at Emu Plains penal
settlement a bit later. The “Australian,”
May 26, 1825, reports the playing of “the
tragedy of Barissa or The Hermit Robber,
the farce of The Mock Doctor or The
Dumb Lady Cured and Bombast es
Furioso.”
A writer in the “Sydney Gazette,” July
21, 1825, describing another perform-
ance, declared:
You may rely on the authenticity of
these statements; for though I was not a
spectator, I have lately been at Emu Plains
and have had the above particulars from
one who was actually in it.
The story of this narrator of July, 1825,
has so close a family likeness to Ralph
Rashleigh that it is hard to believe that
the same hand did not write both; but
Tucker was not in the country till 18
months after the letter of 1825, which in-
cluded the following, was written;
Nor let it be supposed by the sneering
cynic, that- the exertions of those men,
infantile as they are, and opposed by hosts
of difficulties, are at ail contemptible.
Genius, sir, though weighed down with the
pressure of calamity, and hidden by the
shades of obscurity, will burst its way
through every obstruction, will rise to its
proper eminence and draw around it the
attentions and applauses of the world. The
managers of the theatre alluded to were, I
am told, degraded, one to the occupation
of a baker, the other to that of a tinker
but kneading dough and hammering iron
could not suppress the rising of their
thoughts The building was splendidly
erected —the necessary apparatus was pro-
cured —willing assistants engaged, and the
fascinating charms of theatrical mimicry
soon displayed to an admiring audience.
The letter says that “the actors are
occasionally honored by the attendances,
and cheered by the plaudits and benefac-
tions, of some of the first persons in the
colony, ladies as well as gentlemen. Last
Monday evening Bombastis [v/c] Furioso
and The Lying Valet were played in high
style, and among the company present
were:... Sir John Jamison....” It
appeared that “the performance of the
dramatis persona; won the admiration
and excited the joyful acclamation of the
delighted spectators.” Sir John sent the
manager a 10-dollar note. Sir John was
present and gave largesse when Bombastes
was played in Rashleigh also, along with
Raymond and Agnes and The Devil to
Pay.
The likeness to the Rashleigh book’s
style will be noted in the 1825 letter.
One trick of style which the writer of the
letter, present in N. S. Wales in 1825,
shares with the author of the book, sup-
posedly not present till 1827, is the use of
repetition to provide emphasis.
On page 98 of Rashleigh (Limited
Edition), the narrator exclaims:
But the wardrobe! Oh, the wardrobe!
No powers of language can enable me to
do justice to a description of the wardrobe.
And in the letter of July, 1825, was
written:
The stage, the stage —with all its glitter-
ing attractions —danced perpetually before
their imaginations.
Another account in “Howe’s Express,”
July 25, apparently by the writer in the
“Gazette” —Howe was Greenway’s friend
—called the cast the “corps dramatique” ;
so does the writer of Rashleigh.
There is only one authenticated docu-
ment composed by that mean pervert, the
little “clerk and shopman” Tucker, sup-
posed author of Rashleigh, who seems to
have left school at 14. It is the black-
mailing letter for which he was trans-
ported for writing. A verbatim extract:
if I do not hear from you by Saturday
morning you will hear of it (enclosing five
Pounds) now consider Ruin and Beggary
on one side and Wealth and Comfort on
the other remember that if you are obstinate
.... on Saturday night (if you are silent) I
will go to far to retract.
Did the author of this unpunctuated
jumble, who was not at Emu Plains in
1825, write the description of the theatre
in Rashleigh or did the author of the
1825 letter? And was the writer of that
letter Francis Greenway, whose authenti-
cated writings are those of a man of
some genius?
In Rashleigh appears this passage
(Limited Edition, page 75):
Given to. the fool, the vain, the mad, the
evil
To Ward, to Waters, Chartres, and the
Devil.
And surely, men among the freed con-
victs of Mew South Wales who had
acquired riches offered abundant evidence
of the truth of the above couplet, the
■ nucleus of their gains having been acquired
either by the exercise of every art of fraud,
or at least of chicanery, and in some cases
by pandering to the grossest vices of their
fellow-convicts, whose chief luxuries, and
in fact the grand prima mobile or summa
bona of whose existence, were rum and
tobacco, to wallow in beastly drunkenness
being to them the very acme of earthly
bliss.
Was this written by little Tucker, the
perennial delinquent who could never
keep his ticket-of-leave and get himself
out of jail, or by Greenway, whose obses-
sions were mainly concerned with the
greed and cruelty of monopolist—the
very subject of the paragraph? Green-
way could write like this;
I determined to drag, if possible, this
hydra-headed monster into light and show
his hideous form to a duped world, if I
could not, like renowned Hercules, destroy
the monster for the benefit of this society
as well as my native land; for there it seems
that avarice alike has swallowed up all the
noble passions of the soul, and man forgets
that he is mortal, that riches and power
were granted him alone to do good; to
step between the oppressor and the
oppressed; to support virtue and merit
instead of encouraging vice in every way
for the gratification of our beastly passions
—and avarice in particular, the most con-
temptible of these propensities, the meanest
and most wretched.
It is almost certain that Greenway
must have been at Emu Plains in 1821
From 1819 he had enjoyed the profes-
sional patronage of Sir John Jamison.
He had done architectural work for him
in that year and in 1821. The mark of
his hand appears on Regentville, Sir
John’s grandiose mansion, of which the
foundation-stone was laid on September
9, 1823, though there is no documentary
evidence of his connection with it.
On March 24, 1825, a few weeks before
the first of the reported theatrical per-
formances, Greenway called tenders for
two cottages on Sir John’s behalf. In
July he could easily have been “lately at
Emu Plains,” and “seen the playhouse.”
If he wrote Rashleigh his singling-out
of Sir John, his noting of the generosity
of Sir John in giving the players money
is easily understood. Sir John was the
only barrier between him and starvation
at that moment.
The play in Ralph Rashleigh was
“bespoke” by the Chief Justice —“then
residing at Regentville for the vacation
with ail his family,” a fact which puzzles
Mr. Roderick, who suggests that the visit
took place in 1827 or 1828. He is wrong.
Sir Francis Forbes and family were at
Regentville “on vacation” from March,
1826, the month the bushrangers of the
time were hanged or sent to Norfolk
Island, till May. Forbes had his own
cottage at Emu Plains long before Tucker
arrived in Sydney.
All the persons represented as at Emu
Plains can be identified from originals
there in 1824-26 —they were men with
whom Greenway must have had the
closest contact in his work. Mr. Roderick
notes about the “reverend J.P.” who pre-
sided at Rashleigh’s trial at Penrith that
“Rev. Samued Marsden” was “ ‘trans-
ferred’ by Tucker from Parramatta for
the occasion.” The J.P. was not Marsden,
but the veteran Rev. Hy. Fulton. The
N.S.W. public, especially the convictry,
would have read of the scene with
uproarious gusto in 1825 (though not in
1845). It was a topical lampoon of the
Penrith bench, which, with other benches,
was in grave trouble just then for impos-
ing ultra vires' sentences on such prisoners
as “gave us all this trouble,” like those
{“Red Page” continued on page 35)


'.ri
S' >■
N✓ / :
V/ j
IhHB
H
■I
it
■ s
:
M I
H i
11
iJ
•A
I
m
m*
1
Hii
/ i
«■ m
m
i m
■ m
: ••-•■■■•■-"■ ■’■
. \
WMBm. ■
■ A,-
*• • .
MHHK
:
'
mmm§.
I HI
H
n i
; : ;■■■■■ H ■
■ .
■■ (
WttM
ililiiiiMii
■;#
» ■
11
S
■
■■■ •• * * '
' V; : '
i t;
iiilM m :j#WP
■
■ I -
1
5
MiP _
■ ;
w
A
■ • ■ ■
m
m
V
tms.
VS
S*St
m
IS
m
Wi
im
£5Ss
SriSg
iSi
P
a
HH
Wmmm
' IWM
m
m
- m
Mi
£
to glamourise your bedroom choose from our large range of
Jeldi and Gladys Grieve
Chenille bedspreads
Specially chosen for our counfry customers
If you’re wise about the easy-going ways of tufty
chenille, you’ll want one of these spreads on every bed
you own! Nothing could be fresher-looking in
warm weather ... or easier to keep that way. Spreads
here come in white, beige, mushroom, rose, blue,
green, gold, burgundy, pastel pink, blue-green, gold and
pastel shades.
P. —Jeldi, design number SA, a spread tailored in deep textured
candlewick chenille. Three feet £5/10/-, double £5/15/-.
E. —Jeldi 99, embossed baby chenille. Three feet £9/18/9, double
£lO/1/6.
mmm
mm
wm&.
t m
m
■m.mssa
Wm
vm
m
'/■ S
a
I m
M
m
m
a
m
m
M
, -
mm
A. —No. 663 box tailored bolster style, by Gladys Grieve, in a
waffle designed box floral top. Three feet £l4/12/6, double
£l4/19/6.
B. —Gladys Grieve candlewick No. 857. It’s ours exclusively in an
opulent design to suit any decor. Three feet £lO/16/9, double
£lO/19/6.
C. —Another Gladys Grieve exclusive to us. No. 833, its candle-
wick pile is soft and fluffy. Three feet £l 1/10/6, double £l 1/13/6.
s
I
: i
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ CHENILLE BEDSPREADS THIRD FLOOR.
PHONE M 2401. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


Port Phillip's First "Settler”
THE WILD
WHITE MAN
By C. E. GARDINER
5 HIPS bound for the port of Mel-
bourne have to pass through “The
Heads,” and usually when the
entrance is made during hours of
daylight passengers line the rails as the
pilot comes aboard, and then watch the
subsequent navigation of The Rip.
The heads are named respectively Point
Nepean and Point Lonsdale, and the
channel between is, under certain weather
conditions, a very dangerous stretch of
water.
Aptly named. The Rip is about four
thousand yards wide, and nearly half is
taken up by reefs lying off Point Nepean
and by shoals on the opposite side. In
early days it was the scene and cause
of many wrecks, and even today a steam-
ship lies hard and fast off the Corsair
Rock: a vivid warning to mariners.
Flinders, in the Investigator, entered
Port Phillip on April 26, 1802, but he
wasn’t the first, Lieutenant Murray, in the
Lady Nelson, having sailed in and on
March 8, 1802, held the formal ceremony
of taking possession of the bay in the
name of King George 111.
Point Lonsdale is dominated by a
large white lighthouse built of concrete,
unusual in that the concrete is not re-
inforced. Almost immedi-
ately beneath the light-
house is a big cave, and,
says legend, this was occu-
pied by William Buckley
when, a convict, he
escaped early in 1804 and
for 32 years lived with the
aboriginal tribes of the
district.
Buckley, born at Mar-
ton, near Macclesfield in
Cheshire, in 1780, was by
trade a bricklayer, but at
eighteen he entered as a
private in the Cheshire
Militia, and later saw ser-
vice in Holland with the
King’s Own Fourth Regi-
ment of Foot, under the
Duke of York. He came to his cave
through a life-transportation sentence for
receiving stolen property. Of splendid
physique, standing over 6ft. 6in., he was
one of three hundred or so transported in
the Calcutta as part of a colonising group
under Colonel Collins, intended to form a
settlement in the newly-discovered Port
Phillip district.
The Calcutta, arriving on October 9,
1803, safely navigated The Rip and finally
a camp was set up at what is now the
seaside resort of Sorrento. Very good
as a resort, as the site of a colonising
settlement a worse spot could hardly have
been picked on, but wild reports on the
blacks at the head of the bay decided
Collins, and, with permission obtained
from Governor King in Sydney, he moved
across Bass Strait to Van Diemen’s
Land, where he settled his party at Sulli-
van’s Cove on the Derwent, near where
Hobart now stands.
•Or, at least, settled most of his party.
For, at Sorrento, Buckley and two others
escaped.
They had little food and only ode gun,
and soon wished they were not so free.
Having worked their way round the bay
to the western side, they could see the
Calcutta anchored across at Sorrento,
four miles away, and tried their hardest
to attract attention. They waved shirts.
At night they built bonfires. No effect
whatever: the man-o’-war utterly ignored
them.
Scared and desperate, Buckley’s two
companions decided to retrace their steps
to Sorrento and give themselves up.
That was the last heard of them.
Buckley, electing to go it alone, made
his way to Point Lonsdale, and so to the
cave which now bears his name. It
faces the ocean, and more than likely
Buckley from it watched the departure
of the Calcutta for Van Diemen’s Land.
His feelings can be speculated on. He
was the only white man in the whole of
the vast Port Phillip district.
In time he made friends with the
natives, they accepting him as the spirit
of a dead chief. And it was not till Bat-
man’s party from Tasmania landed at
Indented Head in 1835 that he was dis-
covered.
It was noticed by the landing party that
amongst the natives who met them was a
bearded man of European features,
dressed in possum-skins and with the
tattoo-mark W.B. on one arm.
He had, they found, learnt the native
language—but had quite forgotten how
to speak his own! After much per-
suasion he was induced to repeat the
word “bread” when handed a piece, and
very gradually other words came back to
him.
Not much is known as to how he spent
his time in those thirty-two years, but
like his hosts, the natives, he was no
doubt mainly engaged in foraging for
food. Fish was plentiful in the bay, wild
duck abounded in the swamps, and there
was other game. Anyway, the native
food and cooking seemed to have done
him no harm, as the Batman party
described him as of great stature.
The Wild White Man has been much
criticised by historians for the little use
he made of his long sojourn with the
tribes in the way of recording their
customs and speech. As he could neither
read nor write, that would have been
something of a feat for him.
One of his critics, the Rev. W, Water-
field, early took him to task for another
sin of omission. “After dinner today,”
the Rev. Waterfield noted in his diary,
“I was introduced to Buckley... .he was
originally a bricklayer but did not attempt
to teach it to the natives.”
It has been said that perhaps the
reverend gentleman would have been
more satisfied with Buckley’s initiative
had the Batman party been able to report
a row of bijou marine residences built
of brick and facing the sea at Indented
Head.
That Buckley was very kindly regarded
by the natives was proved in 1836, when,
with a companion, he was out riding.
The two horsemen came up with some
aboriginals, former companions of
Buckley’s in the days of his exile. There
Christmas "Bulletin"
Short Story Features
“The Promise ’
by “Standby” (R. S. Porteous)
“//is Excellency Arrives ”
by Ethel Anderson
In next week’s Christmas Number
were three men, five women and about
twelve children. Buckley dismounted,
and at once they were all clinging to him
with tears of delight running down their
cheeks.
He did not, however, care for the life
of the new settlement, although a pardon
had been dispatched to him by Governor
Arthur of Hobart Town, and he had
been given the position of constable and
interpreter of the aborigines. Also, he
was engaged for a time in his old trade
of bricklaying ; and, in fact, some of the
first chimneys in the new settlement were
built by him.
But in 1837, at the age of fifty-seven,
he crossed to Tasmania, where he married
a widow, and, by another odd turn of
the wheel, the Wild White Man held the
position of gatekeeper at a female peni-
tentiary till he was seventy, when he
retired on a pension.
In 1856 he was thrown from a cart
and died from the injuries. i
■Through the years his cave at Point
Lonsdale has been visited by many thou-
sands of tourists and holidaymakers.
From now on, however, the famous cave
will not be so easily accessible to visitors,
a solid bluestone retaining-wall, built
to protect the lighthouse above, blocking
the way.
Dental Debating
WITH a barber it’s differen
The whole ritual is on
peculiarly conducive to som
nolence; the' low, steac
drone of the electric clippers, th
gentle movement of comb anc
scissors.
So that when he yaps about th
thunderstorm we had last night o
the prospects of Fiddleface in th
Welter next Saturday you can dro
in a drowsy “Yes” or “No” occa
sionally, hoping, perhaps, they’re i
the right place, but not giving
damn if they’re not.
How different with your dentist
No matter how drugged you
mind may have become in the wait
ing-room while browsing over th
periodicals, reading about Hitler
love-life and the effect it might hav
on his ambitions, the details o]
Bleriot’s recent Channel flight anc
other up-to-the-minute articles, im
mediately the call comes to go t
the chair your brain becomes in
stantly alert, and stays that way ti
you are released.
After all, who could be somno
lent with a drill hanging poised on
its stand a few inches from his head?
My own dentist, who picks hole
in his own work with dreadfu
monotony and satisfying emolu
ments, is comparatively taciturn
while he is pumping the chair u]
and the nurse is* fastening the bil
around my neck. It was his presence
I think, discouraging as it did any
possible tendency on her part to
linger over this delightful operation
that first aroused my antipathy to
the fellow.
It is usually when he reaches for
the mouth-mirror that the cork
bursts from the seething bottle o;
his verbiage. His favorite opening
shot is to put the mirror on tha
sensitive part of the back of the
tongue which when pressed induces
an irrepressible urge to heave up anc
then ask my views on the bickerings
of a couple of international profes-
sional sportsmen or whether I’ve had
any trouble with my teeth since my
last visit.
The strangled sort of cry which is
thereupon involuntarily wrung from
me he is, amazingly, able to interpret
quite easily. I hope for a chance to
answer a question intelligibly while
he adjusts the light. But no! He’ll
wait till he’s searching for a fault
around where tooth No. 22 used to
be —my face open wide enough to
take comfortably a brace of billiard
balls —before firing his next question.
My reply would to anyone else
sound like the noise emitted by an
eight-month-old infant when you
snatch away his rattle, but my den-
tist is never in doubt as to what I
intend to convey. He will even
interrupt one of my watery gurgles
to say:
“H’m. You might be right, but
I don’t think your reasons are very
convincing.”
With the drill in his hand his
polemical powers are at once stepped
up. Boring in two senses simul-
taneously, he will deem the occasion
ripe to launch into a discussion on
anything from vivisection or heraldry
to the retail fruit racket and invit
my views. Sometimes I cunningly
wait till he pauses and says “Jus
wash that out,” before replying
Having swilled out, I’ll have jusi
taken a deep breath to tall
cogently when it becomes a “Glurg
clug-gork” as he inserts both dril
and mirror into the gap and defie
me to open yet wider without split
ting the corners.
Apparently he firmly believes tha
the bent pipe that hooks on to you
bottom lip during fillings is a grea
help to oratory. When he firs
hooked it on I blew loudly into it
and when he registered annoyance
I explained to him, as best I could
through five cotton gum-pads and
mouthful of saliva I was afraid to
swallow in case I choked, that as an
old cornet-player I had yielded to
sudden temptation. I think he must
for once, have misinterpreted my
series of gurgles, for he mentioned
something about the Kikuyu tribes-
men —we had previously been on
Mau Mau terrorism.
The final straw came for me, how-
ever, the last time he found a small
hole between closely-set teeth. It is
always a profitable discovery for
him, for it means charging for two
fillings, though it’s only the one
hoje.
As usual, he waited till he had
screwed home the little steel gadget
used for forcing teeth apart before
he launched into a diatribe about
the latest transport muddle, and he
asked what I thought of the under-
ground-parking scheme.
I had only got as far as “Shurgl
kgs gurg” when he interrupted with:
“But that would merely aggravate
the problem! What about an over-
head trans-city highway?”
My reply to that, rendered rather
sibilant by the rising tide of saliva,
only got as far as “Sclugs s-r-r” when
it was smothered by several gum-
pads.
After the teeth were filled and I
had got to my feet, still furious at
having my best arguments drowned
in saliva and distorted by lumps of
cotton and whirling drills, I neatly
tripped the dentist as he turned to
pick up my tombstone-index card.
As he spreadeagled on the floor I
grabbed a handful of cotton gum-
pads and stuffed them in his mouth.
Then I put my foot on his chest and
said :
“Now answer hurriedly and
clearly; Do you think we’re on the
road to economic recovery? How
is your car running? Isn’t whisky
an awful price now? Don’t you
think flowering-shrubs are better
than annuals? What! Haven’t you
learned to talk yet with your mouth
both full and open? Come around
some time afid I’ll give you a lesson
I’ve learned here. Now just rinse
your mouth out. I can tell by your
language it needs it. Good-morning.”
BO.
Weather-You Like It or Not!
TALKING about the weather is a
national pastime for the British,
and Australians are no exception.
So at “news-time” Sylvia, my
Australian-born wife, pays some atten-
tion to the hydrogen-bomb, Eisenhower,
Korea ; but when it comes to the weather
she listens with strained nerves, taking in
the forecast as if dear life depended on it.
In his first days here, the New Aus-
tralian listens with amazement to the
varied discussions about the weather. At
first he thinks it is some sort of a joke.
Nobody in Europe would thus speak of
the weather. It would be thought a
waste of time. If it rains, well, it rainsi
It is a thing no man can change, and,
therefore, it is useless to talk about it.
At first the apparent fascination of
complaining of the heat, expecting that
it will rain, and all other varieties of this
apparently inexhaustible subject, seems
quite astonishing.
But after a while, much to his amaze-
ment, the same newcomer discovers that
he has started to think about the weather,
too. The subject sneaks into his mind,
remains and spreads there. He becomes
aware of a word that never interested him
before —the CLIMATE.
First he starts to compare climates.
Whilst he is stewing in the sultry heat
of a Sydney summer, he reads in the
papers about snowstorms, and sub-zero
weather in Europe.
“You know,” he remarks one day to
an Australian workmate or friend,
“people are freezing in Europe now. And
here we’re just boiling away!”
The Australian, who till then had
thought the newcomer a poor conversa-
tionalist and a bloke difficult to get on
with, is electrified by this sudden change
of attitude and approvingly remarks:
“Yeah, it’s different here all right.
Winter now where you come from, eh?
Summer here. Just the other way around.
But the weather bloke said it’s going to
rain at the weekend. That will cool the
air a bit. What d’ you reckon?”
The New Australian reflects for a
moment, then with an air of importance
he announces : “Maybe it will cool the
air, but it may also increase the
humidity.”
So an important step towards the
assimilation into the Australian clime has
commenced.
STEPHEN KELEN.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 3, 1952
Vol. 73—No, 3799
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
INDO CHINA AND U.N.O.
The flat rejection by the U.S.S.R. of the Indian plan
tor settling the Korean war was a foregone conclusion
It was unlikely that the U.S.S.R. would allow its
1 eking satellite to abandon an operation which is
immobilising so much shipping, aircraft and manpower
on the U.N.O. side. Manpower is the cheapest of
commodities with the Iron Curtain countries. To
tie up a million men on the Korean front, living in
wretchedness and discomfort—or even to lose a million
men—means little to Communist Orientals; human
beings are only the robots of the Communist machine,
the currency in which it is prepared to pay to dis-
organise the Western world. One thing which is
needed more than anything in U.N.O. is a sense of
realism, without which it cannot continue to exist.
~ * s a hard, tough world in international
politics in which the ultimate guiding factor is “every
land for itself.” Ail U.N.O. discussions on peace ever
seem to produce is more bad blood. As Mr. Casey
remarked the other day, “there could be no clearer
illustration of the complete cynicism of the Communist
leaders” than their insistence that “we send back their
pnsoners-of-war at the point of the bayonet.”
Russia came into U.N.O. only to use it as a
weapon of world revolution, hoping to dominate it
so soon as it could secure the conquest of China and
Germany, and force them on the world nations as
“veto Powers.” But now that Moscow finds it must
get its world revolution the hard way it is prepared
to do it either through the erosion caused by small
“colonial” wars directed and organised from Moscow,
the base to which Stalin at intervals invites all rebels
Jo turn, or by all-out war if that fails. The Soviet bloc
has already wrecked U.N.0., and would leave it were it
not that every Assembly or Security Council meeting
proves it an instrument which can be used effectively
for Soviet propaganda, and which can be applied to
set the Western Powers at one another’s throats on
racial and other issues. The African question is a case
in point.
One of the most striking facts about the present
position is that during the past month, while the
gabble in New York has attracted so much attention,
the action in Asia has attracted so little. The schemes
of India for peace in Korea, the line-up in principle
of the Indians with the Iron Curtain spokesmen on
the African racial question, show how frail are the
links of common interest which hold the Asian and
European and American parts of the Western world
together. The greatness of India’s statesmen has
become considerably tarnished since Mr. Chifley and
Dr. Evatt proclaimed it to an astonished world. The
conclusion is inescapable that India’s U.N.O, policy
is dictated largely by fear of a powerful neighbor
whom her leaders are desperately anxious not to offend
or provoke.
They have full reason for their fear. And their
alarm goes further than apprehension of direct
invasion. They know all too well the serious impacts
which an advance southward by Communism through
Indo-China, Malaya and Burma could have on their
future and on Asia in general. At the moment the thin
wall of defence manned by the French and Indo-
Chinese allies under their suzerainty is perilously
threatened by the first substantial probing attack for
a couple of years.
The French are bearing the burden alone, while
they see the Americans apparently arming
and organising the shabby warlords of Chiang
Kai-shek and their retainers in Formosa, ostensibly,
according to the Chinese, for the invasion and
reconquest of the Chinese mainland. Yet they know
that for the West it is just as vital to defend the Asian
“rice-bowl” as it is to keep the Russians off the neck
of Japan, which is the only objective to be served in
Korea.
Whoever controls the South-east Asian “rice-
bowl” countries, which export to feed others, can
dictate the policy of all Asia from the Middle East
to the China coast. These countries are Indo-China,
Thailand, Malaya and Burma. Every one of
them, with the exception of Thailand, is in a state of
chaos, riddled through with rebellion and dyed red
with blood. None would be capable of defending itself
alone. Yet the world scarcely notices what is going
on in Indo-China; it hardly knows—and no Foreign
Minister, certainly not Mr. Casey, would question the
facts and their implications—that a successful drive by
SAND CASTLE
the Chinese-Russian-armed Viet-minh armies must
bring us to the brink of World War 111.
It seems that the Western nations might for a
moment or two take a glance at the progress of the
Indo-China war which the French are carrying lone-
handed, since it is just as much a matter for U.N.O.
in principle as the aggression of North Korea. They
might then understand why an exasperated French
Minister the other day threatened that France might
leave Indo-China to its fate if more help from outside
were not forthcoming.
All This and Evatt, Too
structive proposal and were a ludicrous contradiction
of the Victorian A.L.P.’s eight-point plan of a year
previously, which included credit controls, direction
of capital investment into basic industries, limitation
of imports and strict co-ordination of State works
programmes.
He obstructed the Government’s national training
scheme—though the electors had twice approved of
it —until it came good and nobody listened to his con-
demnations. Two years ago he agreed on a Sunday
night that overseas war-clouds made “defence measures
essential.” In the same week he mpved in Parliament
to shelve the compulsory-training bill as “indefensible.”
He admitted that voluntary enlistment alone had
completely failed to produce any Army, but he
insisted that national defence ought to depend upon
a voluntary basis only. In any case, he said, no young
Australian ought to fight outside Australia. The war
must come to “the Brisbane Line” first.
The enlargement of the Senate and the alteration
in the method of electing the Senate enacted just before
his party was defeated in 1949 was designed for the
sole purpose of ensuring that no adverse vote of the
electors should displace a “Labor” rump in the Senate,
which would veto all the new Government’s legislation.
As soon as the Menzies Government met Parliament
in February, 1950, Mr. Calwell announced that there
would be no co-operation with the new Government
in any national measures, whatever they might be, a
line taken straight from the Communists. ♦
As the Chifley Government’s constitutional
adviser Dr. Evatt was never anything but wrong. In
aid of “socialisation in our time” his referendums to
alter the Constitution were heavily rejected, and his
schemes for side-stepping it were thrown out by the
High Court and the Privy Council or, as in price-
control, by an electoral rebuff which gave Dr. Evatt’s
party more pain than any other he assisted to bring
upon it. He has evidently staked his political future on
extracting that barb by getting the decision reversed.
Only by such means can he hope to implement
the socialisation objective of his party, to which he is
now bound hand and foot. By this means every kind
of private enterprise, from the biggest bank to the
smallest shopkeeper, can be branded an exploiter of
the public (in a “Labor” Government’s opinion) and
price-controlled out of business. The rude bludgeon-
users like Deputy-leader Calwell who promise that
“Labor” will in due course annul any agreement by
the Menzies Government to let private enterprise in on
T.V, development must have got a shock when they
read Dr. Evatt brusquely approving the “dual system”
against monopoly and telling them that the High
Court’s latest decisions on Section 92 would make
such a course invalid. But, of course, any commercial
T.V. station can be price-controlled out of existence—
like private airlines in competition with T.A.A,
This Evattian guile about the socialisation objec-
tive should warm up the shindy expected at the
Adelaide meetings of the Federal A.L.P. next January.
Rejecting statisticians’ figures from union returns and
applications for unemployment-relief—eight workers
per 1000, with 68 per cent, of the total located in
“Labor” N.S.W. —that senior wrangler in our politics.
Dr. Evatt, said last week he preferred the estimate of
“reliable private sources” which calculated the
unemployed numbers at 140,000. This would represent
unemployed in N.S.W. at over 95,000.
The resentment and distress among “the workers”
in Dr. Evatt’s State was such that for the whole of
the same week 2000 men voluntarily went out of
employment in sympathy with a fitter who was sacked
because he refused to bore a hole one-sixteenth of an
inch bigger than the half-inch hole he was allowed by
his union to bore. This fact and the story of other
union-made unemployment in the four-weeks brewery
strike in Melbourne and the abattoirs strike in Sydney
were not mentioned in Dr. Evatt’s depression-howling
stunt for the edification of the Werriwa electors.
Dr. Evatt has now committed “Labor” as the
depression party. Like the Communists in the unions,
he and his colleagues in the Opposition “shadow-
Cabinet” at Canberra devote their minds to little
else. It is the surest method of fomenting industrial
discontent, and developing an atmosphere of general
distrust for the undermining of all Government credit.
The harm this campaign can do among potential
investors abroad is obvious, especially at a time when
the leaders of every Government in the British Com-
monwealth are meeting in London to organise a united
effort to restore the competitive trading-power of the
Commonwealth as a whole and enable the pound
sterling to look the dollar squarely in the face again.
He has admitted that ruling grossly inflated prices
are a menace to the national economy. The recent
president of the Federal A.L.P. Executive even said
that if “Labor” were in power it would have to do
exactly what the Menzies Government is doing to
combat inflationary influences. Yet obstruction
of those measures is Dr. Evatt’s only economic
policy. His recently paraded “eight points”
were but a smokescreen to hide the lack of any con-


PLAIN ENGLISH
The "Winning" Side
In spite of its spectacular by-election wins
not , a hap Py P art y- It seems
uh b K P lu mt ° three ~the A.W.U. section,
which the rest declare to be “sec-
tarian and which hates the others but
uares not hate them too hard for fear of
producing atomic fission and blowing the
party kite-high ; the Lefts, who profess to
hate both the A.W.U. and the Com-
munists ; and the Communists, who
nate everybody but are prepared to
lorm a united front with anybody who
will serve their purposes. The “politicals”
are equally unhappy—vide differences on
television.
The Federal and State A.L.P. branches
are particularly conscious of these
divisions as elections approach. There
are * \°} of , these elections. There is
Bradfield, which “Labor” hesitated to
contest officially, against its usual
practice. A contest between endorsed and
independent Liberals would, in “Labor’s”
eyes, achieve more than a contest between
Labor and Liberal, in which “Labor”
would be bound to lose.
The political wisdom of this view has
already been demonstrated by Mr
Turner’s declaration that Mr. Hardie a
istinguished Q.C. and the kind of candi-
date whom Liberal selection committees
always weed out, must be considered as
a Tabor” candidate because he will get
the “Labor” vote. Mr. Hardie might
have some chance of winning with the aid
ot Labor” votes ; neither he nor “Labor”
could win in a three-cornered contest.
A strong influence which made “Labor”
hesitate to contest the seat was money,
which must be a disconcerting issue.
Behind the political scenes there seems
to be a painful scramble going on for
election funds. The Federal “Labor”
party is desperately anxious to have every
penny available to fight the Senate cam-
paign, which it regards as the stepping-
stone to winning the next Federal general
election. The Victorian party is involved
in an election and expects another to
follow quickly. Mr. Playford will be
dragging “Labor” to defeat in a few
months’ time. Queensland’s poll is due
next year. And the quaking Cahills, with
transport bankruptcy round their necks
and little to show for their public-works
programmes save frog-haunted railway
tunnels and weathered and decaying ruins
like Sydney Circular Quay station, will
need every doit they can squeeze from
their supporters to carry out their cam-
paign, due early in the new year.
To make matters worse, there are the
pressure-groups. Unions which are
Communist-run will not give money to
the N. S. Wales A.L.P., dominated by the
A.W.U., without clear assurances of
toleration ; or, perhaps, will not give at
all. Some unions taken over by the
industrial-groups have buttoned-up their
pockets pending better information about
the recognition, at the Triennial Confer-
ence in January, of the groups by the
A.L.P. And while the N. S. Wales Liquor
Commission is still in being there is little
to be expected from “the trade.”
Whatever the fortune-telling tea-leaves
prognosticate otherwise, it is a safe bet
that “Labor’s” immediate future promises
to be more expensive than comfortable.
Essentials in Prosperity
Through the maze of publicity designed,
as ever on such occasions, to prove that
Australian delegates are supermen and
dominate the conference, the essential
fact visible is that the first item on the
three-point programme to be discussed at
the London Economic Conference is—
“individual countries must put their
internal economies in order,”
Behind this is a complicated structure
of proposals ranging from consultation
with European countries to the fitting of
any long-term plan arrived at into a
world structure with the co-operation of
Europe and the United States.
The freeing of sterling, the gold price,
and adjustment to the General Agreement
of Trades and Tariffs are items of prime
importance. Everything, however, gets
back to the point that the first step to
right the internal economies of every
country in the Commonwealth is an
increase in national production.
With production healthy, a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay, co-operation
in expansion between labor and capital,
an overall policy of the development—
financed by British and Dominion capi-
tal —of latent British Commonwealth
resources and with supremacy once
more in the shipping trade, none of the
present artifices for keeping the British
Commonwealth afloat would be needed.
No expedient or international covenant
fixing exchange or the price of gold or
bases of tariff agreement has half the
potency of a great output of saleable
goods and the power to carry them, plus
a background of expanding permanent
assets and growing and prosperous popu-
lation.
Only two parts of the Commonwealth
are today fully and unitedly aiming to-
wards the ideal —the United Kingdom and
Canada. All the rest, including Australia,
despite a sincere effort by the, Federal
Government, are still living in their
beautiful dream of a Golden Age attained
the easy way and without sacrifice.
Television and Some Talkies
Foot-in-mouth disease has always been
a constitutional weakness of Arthur
Cal well, Deputy-leader of the Federal
Parliamentary “Labor” party, and he had
another attack of it last week when
P.M.G, Anthony said his piece about
television and private enterprise.
Calwell rushed into print with a state-
ment that “the next Labor Government”
would cancel all television licences issued
by the Menzies Government, because
“The Labor party made television a Gov-
ernment monopoly and it will keep it that
way, even if greedy interests think they
can change the situation to their own
advantage.”
Too late to apply a gag or muzzle, Doc.
Evatt hastened to prevent his deputy’s
outbreak becoming an epidemic. He
announced that the Constitution would
not permit a Government monopoly of
television, and that “Australia will prob-
ably rely upon a dual system in which
the Australian people will own a service
and commercial stations will also do so.”
With one eye on Arthur and the other on
the A.L.P. executive, he added that the
whole question would be dealt with by
the party “at the appropriate time.”
Shifting his foot to one side of his
mouth, Calwell had a few more words to
say on the subject the following day
when, in collaboration with Senator
Donal’ Cameron, he issued a statement
declaring that the policy of the “Labor”
party was that broadcasting, including
television, should be nationalised. The
two said they knew of no High Court
ruling that would make this impossible,
and that the Defence Preparations Act
“could be quite a useful instrument to
achieve this desirable end.” When this
further evidence of the virulence of his
deputy’s malady was brought to the
notice of the Doctor, he said he had
nothing to add to his previous comment.
The truth, of course, is that Calwell
and Cameron, not for the first time, have
spilt the beans. Despite anything Dr.
Evatt may say—and!, with the Senate
election and several State elections due
in the first half of next year, he is in the
mood to say much and to say it often—
it is “Labor” policy that broadcasting
should be a Government monopoly, just
as it is still “Labor” policy that banking,
shipping, aviation and insurance should
be a Government monopoly. High Court
decisions may prevent direct nationalisa-
tion, but as long as the socialisation
objective remains in the “Labor” platform
the schemers of the party will always be
on the outlook for backdoor methods of
making it become a reality.
Calwell’s remark about the Defence
Preparations Act shows the way his mind
is working, and he and Senator Cameron
(one-time secretary of the Victorian
Socialist party) are by no means alone.
There is only one way by which Dr.
Evatt can convince Australia that the
party he leads is not hell-bent for
Socialism, and that is by openly advocat-
ing the scrapping of the socialisation
objective.
On to Soviet Rule
While there are divisions in the “Labor”
party, as between Left and Right, all
sections appear to be agreed on one thing
—that the Government of Australia must
be sovietised, and that the electoral sys-
tem must be remoulded to make it not
the instrument of a people’s choice, but
a machine for unerringly returning
“Labor” to office no matter what the
state of public opinion.
This ideal is gradualjly being
achieved. In Queensland only a
political typhoon could defeat “Labor”
under the present arrangement of the
State electorates, especially as the Gov-
ernment has not the courage to poll on
the Federal roll, its own roll being one of
a type in which, it is alleged, quadruplets
are more commonplace than in nature.
The McGirr Government had a redis-
tribution as a preliminary to the 1950
election, and having discovered that this
astonishing transfer of electoral power
to the cities did not make it secure, M
McGirr and Mr. Cahill organised anothe
The Government was forced by pubh
opinion to reopen the hearing and dea
with a flood of angry objections; anc
although the plan has been changed i
some respects, it seems to have worked ou
in the most peculiar ways and uniform!
to the advantage of “Labor.”
No less than 64 of the 94 electorate
have been altered, the net result seemin
to be that Newtown and Darlinghurs
two electorates which produce “Labor
members, but which are always a nuis
ance, will be abolished and replaced b
Fairfield and East Hills, which will giv
“Labor” majorities and less trouble. Th
result seems likely—on last election
figures— to defeat the Liberals in Con
cord, Kogarah and Ryde and two C.P
men—D. Hughes in Armidale and F. G
Cooke in Mudgee.
Natural boundaries and proximity
seem to have been lightly disregardec
Concord Public School and bowling clul
have been taken out of the Concord elec
torate and put into Drummoyne. In
Ryde the large division of Hunter’s Hi!
has been moved across the river into
Lane Cove, to the disadvantage of the
Liberal sitting member. It is a singular
fact that no case appears in which the
changes will deprive a sitting “Labor’
member of his majority.
Mr» Cahill piously points out that the
commission’s decisions have lost his party
two seats, failing to remark that they are
likely to be compensated for threefolc
elsewhere. His statement is a piece oi
arrant hypocrisy, as is his assump-
tion that the last word is with the
commission. It is his Government’s
responsibility tp see that the electorates
are on a fair basis. If the commission
had changed the boundaries in such a
way as to prejudice a “Labor” victory
its decisions would have been flung into
the fire and “Hansard” would be loadec
for the next two or three weeks with
insults and abuse of the commissioners
The Cahill Government, like the
Queensland Government, totalitarian
Its ultimate aims in regard to elections
are the same as Stalin’s and Hitler’s. And
that goes generally for “Labor” today.
The A.I.M. Is Not Dead
A statement in a. Melbourne paper that
the Australian Inland Mission was
abandoning its Central Australian patrol
and the hostel at Alice Springs shocked
those who had come to look on the A.I.M.
and the work begun by “Flynn of the
Inland” as a fixture of the outback.
Rumors spread that the A.I.M. was
dead or dying, and soon nothing would
be left but its memory. All of which is
very wide of the truth.
Flynn pioneered the mission-work
mostly by camel. His successor. Rev.
“Skipper” Partridge, used more modern
means of transport. But a man can’t go
on for ever, and Rev. Partridge’s age had
to be reckoned with. The rapid advances
of transport and communication made it
necessary for the Presbyterian Mission
Board to look into the system.
There is a widespread belief that the
A.I.M. is a sort of medical service. It
isn’t. Its main object is to carry spiritual
medicine into the outback. The Alice
hostel —built to accommodate expectant
mothers and their children—is now out-
moded by a Government hospital. What’s
more, the Northern Territory Administra-
tion has never looked kindly on the
A.l.M.’s medical work.
The real work of the A.I.M. isn’t end-
ing; it is expanding. Methodists and
Presbyterians are combining in a plan to
extend co-operative missionary work at
Alice Springs and in the surrounding
territory. What with the Flying Doctor
and other air-services and radio com-
munications the day of the long patrol is
over. But neither Flynn nor Partridge
will be forgotten, and the future joint
work, radiating from the Flynn Memorial
Church at the Alice, will be their
memorial.
The Massacre on the Roads
The 1951-52 year produced one Aus-
tralian record which the country didn’t
want, but is likely to see broken in the
next year or two. The Road Safety
Council, meeting in Adelaide, was told
that in the 1951-52 year road accidents
had accounted for 2054 lives, 38,376
injured persons ,and property damage
assessed at £25 million.
In a way these record figures are an
improvement. They arose out of a
greatly-increased number of road vehicles
—in all, 1,769,000. But the accident-rate
per 10,000 vehicles is down. It was 309
in 1940, 232 in 1950-51, 228 in 1951-52.
All the same, the country can’t afford
to have 40,000 people killed and injured
every year on the roads.
The remarkable aspect of it all is that
a very large number of people are de-
voting their energies to trying to stop the
rot. The gospel of safety is preacher
night and day, safety rules are enforc
by law, the Press and radio, the sere
and schools never cease trying to sa
people from accidents. Yet every ye
the dreadful toll mounts.
It is poor consolation to be told tl
“most of those killed were primar y
responsible for their own deaths.”
that “speed, carelessness, inexperien
and intoxication” caused most of tie
accidents. Those of us who have escapee
are entitled to wonder what purpose tie
safety campaign serves if these fo
causes can lay out 40,000 persons a yea
If the massacre is to be seriously
duced it seems that something more th
the current safety campaign and curre
safety laws is necessary. What for
new measures are to take is a proble
calling for profound study. As a begi
ning it is obvious that speed and drinr
need more deterrent penalties and th
“carelessness and inexperience” call f
a better system of licensing drivers,
present it is generally far too easy for
beginner to obtain a licence.
What "Vote 'Labor 1 " Means
While “Labor” leaders, Federal anc
State, are howling about the blighting o :
their overfull employment by the wickec
Menzies Government’s measures again
further inflation, it is instructive to looc
into the record of sheer waste of mone
and corruption of work-power on publi
works in the chief industrial State durin
12 years of “Labor” rule.
Despite the ridiculous clamor of th
Evatt-Cahill chorus against the Com
monwealth’s denial of money for Stat
works, the unchallenged retorts of Libera
critics in the N.S.W. Assembly were tha
of the N.S.W. public debt of £575 mil-
lion (built up in the last 100 years) th
McGirr-Cahill Government incurred n
less than £lOO million in the past two
years, and nearly £2OO million in the
past four years. The proposed spending
far exceeded these figures.
Everybody will remember the orgy o
expenditure that McGirr announced for
the elections of 1947. By 1950 work had
been begun—from blueprints onward —
on jobs to cost £4OO million, or
doubling of the State public debt at the
figure where it then stood. The fantastic
spate of foundation-stone laying, sod-
turning and “work”-creating that has,
during these post-war years in “Labor”
N.S.W., made all past spending-sprees
look trivial is the true picture of what
“Labor” calls “full employment.” No
taxation or loan-raising could ever pay
for it; and the wildest inflation of the
currency for the purpose could only swell
all estimated costs beyond calculation.-
N.S.W. has been littered with work-
gangs all eating their heads off. The cost
of work done has been enormously aug-
mented by the absence of any discernible
intention of finishing any of it. The
whole stunt has been solely political. The
Quay railway is stopped again because
the votes of the hands on that job are
wanted elsewhere.
The Country-party leader, Colonel
Bruxner, said recently in Parliament that
he challenged the Premier publicly to tell
him what he had to show for
£192 million spent in the past four years.
The Premier replied in all the country
newspapers listing the works the Govern-
ment had completed. When I totted them
up I found that their cost came to
£2,900,000 and that others to a total of
£1,700,000 were being “hurried along.”
More than a year ago the Cahill
Ministry, through one mouth or another,
announced water-conservation schemes
located on every river in N.S.W. to cost
£6O million, and another £l5 million on
new irrigation farms. In the N.S.W.
Assembly debate on the Loan Estimates
six weeks ago Liberal-leader Treatt
described the condition of some of these
works:
Keepit Dam (Namoi), started 12 years
ago, intended to be completed 1945; war
intervened —work resumed 1946. Original
cost to be £1,340,000; cost to date,
£2,873,000; will want £4,100,000 more to
complete.
Burrinjuck enlargement, same age and
interruption; still incomplete.
Glenbawn (Hunter), started 1946, due
1961, to cost £1,500,000; cost to date (less
than half-finished), £2,804,000; will want
£6,000,000 more to complete.
Burrendong (Macquarie), started 1946,
less than half-finished, original cost
£2,000,000; cost to date, £2,308,000; will
want £5,900,000 more to finish.
Menindie Lakes, two years, to cost
£2,300,000, cost so far £623,000, will want
£3,100,000 more to finish.
Lake Ballyrogan (£200,000), Warkworth
(£2,500,000) and Blowering Dams
(£11,000,000) authorised but nothing done
beyond blueprint stage.
This is only a small part of the mess
of public works littered about the State.
The same Government has announced
{Continued on page 7)


Users
Report—“lT’S WONDERFUL!”
colchisqne
The EFFECTIVE treatment for
RHEUMATISM
arthritis
GOUT
and swollen and inflamed joints
There is NO substitute
Colchisone is the only treatment of its kind available in Australia.
Made in England from a special formula, it contains individually
effective ingredients which, when blended together by the exclusive
process used in the manufacture of this amazing product, give outstanding
and almost instant relief. It is guaranteed harmless.
COLCHISONE
All Chemists. Price SO/- per bottle with diet
instructions (one bottle is usually sufficient).
Rickard Medical Products Rty Ltd., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
hospital-building plans to cost £32 mil-
lion (revised figures for the £2O-million
scheme described by Mr. McGirr as
“vitally urgent” five years ago). Then
the railway and power works —McGirr or
Cahill:
£44,000,000 to g:o on v the Eastern Suburbs
railway (£1,650,000 spent in four years);
£3,000,000 on the age-old railway design to
connect Glen Innes and Inverell (£5OOO
spent), and £1,000,000 on a line from Thirl-
mere to Burragorang, due for 1948, and
still only in the initial Stage of construc-
tion. On the Sandy Hollow—Maryvalo
strategic railway link (already cost
£3,500,000 and needing £900,000 to complete)
the completed earthworks have been
riddled by the rabbits.
Railway to Bake Macquarie power-
station, £33,350,000; country-line electrifica-
tion, £17,750,000 —£500,000 spent so far on
the Bithgow section and that now “vir-
tually abandoned,” while the Government
has diesel-locomotives tested as alterna-
tives.
The new Electricity Comlnission spent
£15,000,000 last year and proposes to spend
another £13,500,000 this year—if it can
get it.
Does anybody want to maintain that
the Commonwealth Government ought to
print bank-notes unlimited so that this
sort of thing can travel on to the crash?
POLITICAL POINTS
It was said here last week that Doc.
Evatt wanted some really spectacular
figures in Werriwa to back up his Flinders
victory. He certainly got ’em. On
Monday his man Whitlam was nearly
17,000 ahead of the Liberal Griffith, who
only 20 months ago got to within 4847
of H. P. Lazzarini. The new M.H.R.’s
comment that his big win indicated the
resentment of the people in a fast-growing
area against the Federal Government’s
economic policy which had resulted in. the
curtailment of loan-money for schools,
hospitals and other civic amenities, and
that “the electors have rightly sheeted
home the responsibility to the Federal
Government,” is true enough—except for
that word “rightly.”
Evatt and his crew have successfully
panicked the electors into believing
that what is a minor wave of
unemployment is the beginning of a
depression of unprecedented magnitude,
and that it has bgen caused partly by the
wilful malevolence of the Menzies Gov-
ernment and partly by its incompetence.
“Labor” has played upon two very
natural elements in the human make-up—
fear of unemployment and a desire to
find an easy way out of threatened
troubles.
At no time during the successive by-
elections of the past six months has Evatt
advanced any constructive measures for
improving the country’s economic and
social condition, although he has made
many specious promises of the full-and-
plenty era that will ensue if the electors
will put him and his Socialist band in
charge of the Treasury.
His own comment on Werriwa is in the
same vein of vague generalities. The
people have approved “Labor’s fight for
full employment”; they have also
approved “Labor’s refusal to accept the
present high cost of living and inequitable
taxation.” It cannot be denied that the
people, as represented by the electors of
Werriwa, have accepted “Labor’s” story
that full employment, cheap living and
low taxation can be achieved by a wave
of the Evatt wand. If they continue to
believe in that fairy-tale for another 18
months Good Fairy Bert will get the
opportunity to use the wand. Up till
now he has only had to use his wind.
® o
Cahill and Treatt will both represent
New South Wales at the Coronation.
Before they go, electors will probably be
given the chance to decide which will go
as Premier and which as Leader of the
Opposition.
• 9
Victoria’s four-party election campaign
to determine whether future campaigns
will be fought by three parties or two-
and-a-bit is in its closing stages. Although
the two-for-one redistribution plan was
the immediate cause of the election, and
remains the chief bone of contention at
most election meetings, a factor that can-
not be denied is that the campaign has
been fought against a general background
of the, overall swing to “Labor.” Whereas
a few months ago “Labor” held no hopes
of gaining an absolute majority on the
present boundaries, the party is now
optimistic that it can get the numbers.
Premier McDonald’s explanation of the
two-for-one plan is that it proceeds from
the fact that neither Hollway nor Cain
was able to become Premier and that
both were “suffering from frustration.”
Frustrated or not, on present indications
plenty of bettors would give both men a
better chance than Mac of being Premier
next week, with the odds in favor of
Cain. Hollway’s chance, of course,
depends on his beating Liberal-leader
Norman and of his group still holding
the balance-of-power between “Labor”
and anti-“ Labor.”
• o
When Spercy Spender told a New York
audience that the one way Australia
could progress was “to work its way and
pay its way,” he was expressing a truth
which applies not only in the overseas
field but also in the home paddock. Too
many people in this country lean to the
belief that we can wish ourselves into
prosperity. Hard work is not a popular
recipe for success, but it is the only
practical one.
• •
Brisbane is to lose its City Electric
Light Co. (assets nearly £2O million),
which is to be taken over by the Gairs
and become the Southern Electric
Authority of Queensland. Why? Let
Premier Gair himself explain:
The company sought a renewal of its
existing franchise it had performed all
its obligations it had operated its busi-
ness efficiently... .it was co-operative in
implementing Government policy on the
other hand, reasons against the renewal
were that the Government would be letting
pass its first opportunity of implementing
its policy of public ownership of public
Utilities....
and so on. The same policy has been
“implemented” south of the border, and
its beneficiaries are dumb with shock.
• •
Government enterprise: N.S.W. Gov-
ernment has cut down its transport
services, stopped work on its Eastern
Suburbs railway and on the Quay rail-
way, slowed down on country water-
works and other things. Private enter-
prise : General Motors-Holdens announce
an £ll' million expansion programme in
all five mainland State capitals.
• •
Latest bright idea of the Cahill Ministry
in N.S.W. is to propose at the January
conference of the Federal A.L.P. in
Adelaide that all State “Labor” Govern-
ments should be “instructed” (1) to cut
prices of all commodities (but not wages)
by 5 per cent., (2) to introduce rationing
“as shortages develop,” (3) prohibit
export of goods till “local requirements
are satisfied.” Whether (2) and (3) are
within the powers of State Governments
is doubtful. And what will Section 92
have to say on the matter?
• •
Unless there is a last-minute change of
mind inspired by Werriwa “Labor” will
not run a candidate for Bradfield. J.
Somerville-Smith has announced his
intention of standing as an unendorsed
“Labor” candidate, and it is possible that
the party may finally give him its blessing.
In addition to Edward Wright and Samuel
Simons there is another Independent in
the field—M. F. Hardie, Q.C., who says
he has never before taken part in politics,
stands for the protection of the peoples’
assets, is against monopolies whether
Government- or privately-owned and
opposes Government restrictions and
controls.
Mr. Hardie’s position, should he win
Bradfield, will be rather intriguing. He is
opposed to restrictions and controls. To
secure the seat he will have to draw off
thousands of votes from the Liberal
candidate who believes in some controls,
and secure all the votes which would
ordinarily go to a “Labor” candidate in
support of a policy of full controls.
• •
Cahill has stopped work on Sydney’s
Quay railway again “because of shortage
of money,” Since McGirr proposed
four years ago to drive it to completion
by spending £44 million on it, the N.S.W.
Government has “gone ahead” with the
job in that time at the rate of £400,000
a year.
• •
Professor Copland’s contention that
the influx of New Australians will mean
that Australia will soon have two
civilisations —British and non-British —•
just as Canada has British and French,
seems to be based on rather flimsy
premises. Firstly, it assumes that Euro-
pean migrants will form compact groups,
and not be assimilated, and, secondly, that
all Europeans have a similar cultural
background, whereas the Dutch, for
example, are surely closer to the British
in outlook, habits and culture than either
of them are to the Poles or Italians.
Underwood and Co., a Brisbane firm,
undertook to build an electric power-
line from Maryborough to Kingaroy, 110
miles, in a year. Given the contract it
put 24-year-old Desmond Archer in
charge as construction foreman, and the
job was completed with a day to spare.
The gang comprised 20 men in all. News
of the feat came as a severe shock to all
Commonwealth and State “works”
departments.
• •
New home-prices for wheat are to be
11s. lid. a bushel for human consump-
tion and 13s. lid. a bushel for stock
feed. This will put Id. a loaf on bread
and push up egg and bacon prices. The
Commonwealth Government is reducing
its subsidy from 4s. Id. a bushel to 2s. 2d,
on stock feed, but the grower will receive
the International Wheat Agreement price
of 16s. Id, a bushel.
• •
The Prague treason trials, in the tradi-
tional pattern of Revolution devouring
its begetters, ended with 11 once-top Reds
being sentenced to death and three others
to life imprisonment. Few tears are
necessary—it is probably just the luck
of the deal that the positions of judges
and accused weren’t reversed—but why is
there no outcry from those organisations
which, in the name of liberty and freedom
of speech and thought, profess to be
opposed to execution for political crimes?
Or is it one thing to plot against the Greek
Government and another to plot against
the Czech?
• •
Perth has been told that its “skeleton”
weekend suburban train-service will stop
the moment it ceases to pay its way—the
McLarty Government not being silly
enough to run trains whose crews must
receive weekend “penalty” rates for what
is in reality ordinary shiftwork.
• •
“Articus”: An interjector at Liberal-
leader Norman’s meeting at Hawthorn
Town Hall persistently interjected “We
want one vote one value.” His call
brought back to my mind an old Bulle-
tin joke-block of the early years of the
century. The drawing showed two old
soaks. One asked “Wot’s this ’ere ‘One
man one vote’ mean, Bill?” Bill replies
“It means one bloody man, one bloody
vote, Jack.” Says Jack “Oh, I see.” The
descendants of Jack and Bill in Mel-
bourne are just about as clear on the
present argument.
• •
Just when some grand new plans for
Blair Athol coal were being displayed
the leader of the Pakistani coal-buying
mission said there was no hope of export-
ing fnuch Australian coal at the prices
asked. Which is another way of saying
that the 40-hour week is not for export.
• •
Casualties on the roads (all Australia)
last year (to June 30) and in 1950-1951:
/ Killed—, Injured—,
1951. 1953. 1951. 1953.
New South Wales .. 699 741 11,817 13,637
Victoria ~ ..581 603 11,364 13,531
Queensland .. .. 318 251 5,513 6,561
South Australia ~ 197 173 3,333 2,497
West Australia .. 167 194 3,686 2,771
Tasmania .. .. 57 87 1,212 1,215
Northern Territory .. 7 6 173 164
Total .. ~ 1926 3054 85,095 38,376
The damage done to property (chiefly the
vehicles) at the same time amounted to
£25,000,000. Australian Road. Safety
Council, issuing these figures, says most
of those killed were responsible for their
own deaths through excessive speed,
careless driving, faulty mechanism or
drink.
• •
It is a strange commentary on demo-
cracy that there should exist such a body
as the Dispossessed Homes and Property-
owners’ Association, but there is one in
Melbourne, and its members claim that
they are being denied the “basic democratic
right of living in their own homes.” The
secretary of the organisation has expressed
the hope that all parties in the next Vic-
torian Parliament will take action “to
get property-owners back into their own
homes.” Well, perhaps they will, but
the association had better not bank on
it ; tenants have a lot more votes than
dispossessed property-owners.
Prophesying that within a year “Labor”
would control all Parliaments in Australia,
Arthur Calwell told a Melbourne meeting
that when that happy day came “the con-
tinual wrangling and bitterness between
Commonwealth and States will give way
to a harmonious relationship where things
can be achieved.” As a sample of what
he meant by “harmonious relationship”
he had just issued a statement on tele-
vision which was in complete antithesis
to the views expressed by his party-leader.
• •
President McKerihan of N.S.W. Gov-
ernment’s Rural Bank predicts “a very
favorable trade year for Australia,” and
says a depression is nowhere on the map.
“Australians instead of wearing long
faces ought to be rejoicing at the improve-
ment” is his verdict on the economic
situation. The Cahill-Evatts withhold
comment.
• •
Unless N. S. Wales Assemblyman
Crawford (C.P., Barwon) is mistaken, the
State’s oldest public servant has been dis-
covered :
When the line between Inverell and Moree
was finished in 1902 a new locomotive
could not be provided, and one that had
been constructed in Birmingham in 1872
was put in service. It still pulls the
passenger train between Inverell and Moree,
and takes 4-} hours to travel the 90 miles
between the two centres.
• •
Evatt’s claim that Werriwa also reflects
strong public resentment at Government
policy on A.W.A., G.0.R., Glen Davis,
T.A.A. and the Commonwealth Shipping
Line cannot be allowed to go unchal-
lenged. Electors whose votes can be
swayed by the hysterical persuasion prac-
tised by “Labor” in recent months are
obviously not greatly concerned about
matters of high policy. Those items
were deliberately tacked on to such
election-winners as unemployment and
high living-costs so that electoral
approval could be claimed for them.
• •
Clive Evatt seems to be the kind of
man who goes around with a worried
look on the faces of his party.
• o
Although some election-meetings in
Victoria have attracted record audiences
there have been others where the speakers
had to work flat-out to borrow the ears
of two men and a dog. The “Age”
reported a “Labor” meeting in Essendon
which attracted 12 people, four of whom
were hostile interjectors.
e •
When the Arbitration Court brought
the hearing of the wages-and-hours case
back to Melbourne after hearing evidence
in Sydney and Adelaide it found itself
without accommodation in the city and
had to go out into the suburbs. Hawthorn
council chambers are the new venue of
the hearing, and they look like filling that
role for some months.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Nunk”: In the Dire quiz the demand
was for a proverb with “love” in it.
“She ought to know that one,” my wife
said. ‘ Love is the best policy.’ ” I’m
still considering the implications.
♦♦♦ +> ♦♦♦
F.S. : After attending the opening o '
a modernist exhibition I happened ;o
glance in at a. hardware-shop window
and was struck by the beauty of the craft
manship in some of the goods show; ,
which was in sharp contrast to the poo
work in the pictures I had see
It made me wonder why people har
modernist pictures on their walls. Wh
not hang a brace-and-bit? It was pro
duced by an average craftsman, but it is
well made and looks beautiful. Thes
modem pictures are neither well mad
nor are they artistic. The man who mad
the brace-and-bit didn’t give himself air
and graces about being an artist, but h
produced something artistic. Modernis
painters give themselves airs and graces o: :
being Van Goghs and Gauguins withou;
having any of the skill of those artists o
their obsession.
❖
“Yair”; The lane near the church
the battleground for about six dead
beats. They give off their metho-fume
all day and curl up in corners at night.
The minister’s wife surprised me, how
ever, when she mentioned them as they
passed, because she added “They spoil the
hymns, too!” “Do they actually come
to church?” I gasped. “I can imagine
their voices wouldn’t be the best”
“Oh, no! ” she laughed. “They spoil the
hymns simply because they sleep on the
organ-belt; it’s outside the hall, you see
and it’s soft for them at night. Then,
when we go to play the organ in church
on Sunday, it won’t work because the
belt’s been stretched!”
❖ ♦>
“Vingter”: To “Clooter” (B.
19/11 /’52) in his ignominy pursuant his
abortive attempt to report to an also-
offending conductress the female who
infringed the non-smoking bus by-laws, I
offer as psychological balm this recital of
the mental and physical discomfort suf-
fered by a member of the unfair sex as a
result of a whiff of the weed taken in
xerhoten territory. Stripped to the waist
with hide on which dermatitis had etched
relief-maps of Etna, Krakatoa, Popoca-
tepetl and several other mountains in
eruption, I was rostered for duty as
guinea-pig at the A.G.H., where the C. 0.,
a skin-specialist in Civvy-street, had sum-
moned the nursing sisters for a lecture.
Awaiting the arrival of the Old Mari, who
was of puritanical bias and whose pet
hate was smoking females, the mustered
nursing staff was, almost to a sister, inhal-
ing deeply until his approaching footsteps
caused the dumping of the fags. The
lecturer broke off after his opening
sentence, sniffed, inspected his audience
and resumed only to break off again.
Then he said: “Sister Gasper may not be
inhaling, but she is smoking, nevertheless.
If she is really interested in the lecture
her powers of concentration may be
helped if she retires to extinguish the
conflagration in her underclothes.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spokeshave”; As a commentary on
the modern craze for lectures, take a
recent example at Oxford. A Dr.
Mahesh Helal, described as a Turkish
authority on sociology, was billed to give
a lecture extolling the pleasures of
opium-eating. He spoke through black
whiskers in a thick accent for an hour of
the blessings of the stuff that is contra-
band in Australia, and told how he had
taken it for many years without ill-
effects. A hall full of undergraduates
listened reverently, two leading London
papers solemnly reported the lecture, and
a couple of interjectors got hostile treat-
ment. A couple of days later the Turkish
“Rum and cloves, I'd say."
savant was revealed as Patrick Drom-
goole, secretary of a university dramatic
society, who had planned the hoax for
six months, even planting a copple of his
friends in the audience as interjectors,
*> *X* *i*
“Sackville”; I recall one occasion when
a straw-boater was repaired, long before
the days of transparent-tape (B.
12/11/’52). I was six and wearing a new
biscuit to Sunday-school. There had
been a change of premises, and in the
jockeying for positions my cady fell
beneath a descending foot. Result." A
crown punched out with a jam-tin-lid
effect. One of the older girls came to the
rescue and did a fairly neat job with pins
for rivets. If fate had leaned my way the
running-repairs would have taken me
home ; but in the moving from the old
building the collection-plate had gone
astray. “Very well,” smiled the teacher
(possibly inspired by Henry Lawson),
“we’ll send the hat round. You’ll pass
your hat along the form, won’t you?” In
agony I watched my lid gather weight to
the strains of “Hear the pennies drop-
ping.” Half-way along the fourth row
gravity asserted itself. We heard those
pennies dropping, and we “listened while
they fell” —every crashing, scattering,
rolling, spinning one of ’em.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Piketrailer” (Hong Kong): Though
both Old and Young Diggers, of Galli-
poli and Korea experience respectively,
can testify to the prowess of Johnny
Turk as a scrapper on land, it’s not likely
that the much-disputed Mediterranean
Naval command will go to a Turk, even
though one of the most crushing naval
defeats in history was that dealt out by
the Turkish fleet of Suleiman the Mag-
nificent, under Barbarossa, to the com-
bined fleets of Spain, Portugal, Genoa,
Venice and the Papal States under the
command of the Genoese, Andrea
Doria, in the Strait of Prevessa in 1538.
In modern times the Turkish Navy has
been a byword for ineptitude in naviga-
tion, due, no doubt, to the sight, long
f amiliar to the inhabitants of Constanti-
nople in the days of the sultans, of the
ships perennially at anchor in the Golden
Horn. The best yarn of that period tells
how a Turkish High Admiral was sent
by his sultan, much to his annoyance, on
a cruise to Malta. On his return, some
months later, he was summoned to give
a report to the sultan. “Well,” said the
monarch, “what sort of a place is Malta?”
The admiral’s answer was terse and c
elusive. He said, “Malta yok,” wh
freely rendered, means “there ain’t
Malta.” He had searched for it in v
all round the Med.!
“Gerard”; Re “Phil Anthus’s” par. (
8/10/’52) suggesting that E. J. Banfie
the Lord of Dunk Island, should
honored by his grave on the island be
made a national possession. The folio
ing appeared in an American pa
recently:
ANYONE WANT TO BUY
EQUIPPED TROPICAL ISLE?
Want to buy a tropical island in th
south seas? Only thing wrong with it
its name. Dank Island. The island, 8(
miles off the North Queensland coast o
Australia, is for sale by auction.
Despite its name, the brokers claim, th
island is a cheery place, with a hotel, dance
hall and cottages.
Dank—according to the dictionary-
marshy place ; soaked with cold moistu
Dunk does not appear in the Englis
language, but according to the Americ
expression of “dunking” biscuits
doughnuts in tea or coffee, there does no
appear to be much difference.
❖ ❖ <♦
“Eve”: I’m not sure whether it w
tact or sarcasm. He handed his cup ba
to the waitress and said gently, “Aren'
some women foolish? Look! The lac
who used this cup before me must’ve pu
her lipstick on so disgustingly thick th
it wouldn’t come off in the wash!”
4* *X*
“Strict Veg”: When the beer-droug
hit Melbourne the licensee of a suburba
tavern sent for a couple of barrels o
cider, put it in her cellar and for the fir
time in its liquid history draught cide
flowed in a hotel in Melbourne. Inurec
to beer and despising wine and spirits, th
drinkers gingerly sampled their first glas
and found they liked it, so if any strik
lasted long enough the distilled essenc
of the apple might take the plac
of hops in Melbourne. The lady Bun
has been warning her customers that cide
isn’t as innocent as it looks—alcoholi
content is 3 per cent, higher than that o
beer. As most Melbourne drinkers drin
beer for the kick they get out of it a lot o
them must have pricked-up their ears a
this revelation.
• • • •
“Nakh”: A touch of humor lightened
the black tragedy of the Victorian beer
famine in one country township. A
Warracknabeal a dray carrying three
thirty-sixes was seen to pass down the
main street and stop at the pub, which
had been closed for a fortnight. The
curious crowd could hardly believe its
eyes when the bar opened. Bung
explained that the barrels had been at the
railway-station for a fortnight and had
been forgotten.
“Emel”: Old Cap’n Kay was showing
the unhappy effects of the night before
when a young friend invited him to have
a drink. “Thank’ee boy, I will!” said
Cap’n with grateful alacrity. “A drop
o’ beer in the marnin’ be better than
none all day!”
❖ <*
“Villefair”; My spouse has the be-
wildering habit of writing notes to her-
self ; they are rendered more perplexing
by the haste of the scribble. The last
remnant of confetti had scarcely floated
out of the cuffs of my wedding pants
when I found a scrap of paper on the
sideboard bearing the scrawled message,
“Pat milkman Saturday.” Discreet in-
quiries revealed that the note was a unit
in a patent memo, system, but I still
couldn’t see why the tradesmen should
be accorded the kind of appreciation
usually reserved for canines, even if it
was to be merely a Saturday special.
Harmony was restored with the informa-
tion that the milko tried to double up
one week; the “Pat” was intended to be
“Paid.” Since then I’ve become accus-
tomed to finding “Millies Mond.” im-
prisoned in the sugar-basin, or “Dent.
Fri.” anchored with the toothpaste. I’ve
learnt that “Buy ten socks” doesn’t mean
an orgy of spending, “ten” being a de-
hydration of “tennis.” But I was defeated
with the legend “Play the black eye.”
After hours of trying to worry out what
sort of crazy game my wife intended to
take up, I was forced to break in on her
radio programme to ask. I was “shoo-
shed” into silence. She was listening to a
play, “The Black Eye.”
A SHAREHOLDERS' MEETING
Winsor says—‘Join me on the Advisory
Panel of your railways You own the rail
ways; you are one of the shareholders Write
to me personally.’ ” — N.S.W.G.R. Advt.
Dear Mr. Winsor,
May I come in, sir?
Ah, thanks for your kind invitation!
As a railways-shareholder
I'd like to unfold a
Survey of the rail-situation.
So please take a note.
My opinion is—quote—
/ don’t feel you’re using your powers.
Since money is scarce
You should double the fares
And make them work forty-eight hours.
No ! Not that excuse !
I’ll hear no abuse
Of the New South Wales “Laborite
caucus;
No pressure, no bribes.
No threats and no gibes
Could impress them, no matter how
raucous.
You should get them to see
They’re shareholders like me
In the Transport Department’s direction
They d take up the gage—
‘‘Op hours ! Down wage !
Don t mind if we lose the election !”
But, Reg, while I stand-
With my shares in my hand
And drink to the future unfolding.
I’d like your advice
On a fair market-price —
How much could I get for my holding?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“C. 8.”: A domestic Melbourne Cup
sweep was got up by the kids, and neigh-
bors were drawn in to the number of the
starters. In the subsequent drawing it
was found that Grandpa had got Dalray,
but there was so much argument and
fighting that the whole thing got com-
pletely tangled up, the drawing was de-
clared invalid and a fresh distribution
of tickets made. There were even some
suggestions of foul-play on the part of
Grandpa. The second drawing was
triumphantly completed, everything being
done in the manner of a Tasmanian con-
sultation, In the final washup every
ticket turned up except Dalray’s. That
was once more found in Grandpa’s.
pocket. His gesture of giving back the
prize-money to be divided amongst the
children was unavailing. He goes around
now with a hangdog expression under a
black cloud of suspicion.
❖ ❖ ❖
“X.S.”: Dr. Louis Ridenour, a
physicist, has been quoted as saying
“Once it is decided people are to be
killed, the moral question of using H-
bombs is settled.” Of course it is. The
second proposition follows the first one,
if the first one is accepted. A cor-
respondent of the Melbourne “Herald”
calls the physicist a moral imbecile for
saying that it would be more unpleasant
to be disembowelled by a Roman soldier
than to be killed in the flash of an H-
bOmb. But what the correspondent’s
argument amounts to is that wars are
justified so long as they are fought with
old-fashioned weapons, which sounds to
me just as silly as the first one.
*> *t*
“By Kal”: More than 11,000 Boy
Scouts are expected to attend the Pan-
Pacific Scout Jamboree, “the biggest ever
held in the Southern Hemisphere,” at
Greystanes, Sydney, late this month.
Scouts will come from 14 different coun-
tries. Greystanes, the camp-site, got
its name from a homestead built in 1840
by Nelson Lawson, son of the explorer;
it has an area of 300 acres. The jam-
boree will be the first to be held in
N.S.W. since 1938, when over 11,000
Scouts were in camp for 12 days at Brad-
field Park. This year’s gathering is com-
memorated by a special postage-stamp,
which portrays a Boy Scout;, it will be
the second Australian issue to honor the
organisation—the first was put out in
November, 1948, in connection with the
jamboree held at Yarra Brae, near Mel-
bourne.
“Bo”: The old girl, looking over some
dress-material, told the salesgirl she
wanted to see it in daylight. The girl
snapped on the blue daylight lamp and
held the material under it. The customer
insisted she wanted to see it in “real
daylight.” “Madam,” said the salesgirl
patiently, “these lamps have been speci-
ally made to give the appearance of
daylight.” “They might have been,”
replied the dowager, “but I don’t trust
the electricity—it*isn’t always of the same
strength. I know, because it often takes
longer to boil the jug or toast bread. If
it happens to be weak today the daylight
lamp would only show the material as it
would appear on a dull day. I’ll see it
at the window, please.” The window
was away down the other end of the store
and the long trek commenced.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Becks”: Someone in England, advo-
cating the flogging of persons convicted of
crimes of violence, suggests that a
mechanical (logger might be devised for
the purpose. Old E. W. Cole, of Book
Arcade fame, had a similar idea half-a-
century ago. In his Funny Picture Book
he depicted two such machines working
on the principal of a revolving drum
bristling with canes which dusted the seats
of boys strapped to the machine in the
appropriate attitude. The first picture
showed “Snooks’s Whipping Machine,”
hand-operated by means of a windlass;
the effect on the victim was similar to
tickling their toes. The second scene
showed “Cole’s Whipping Machine.” This
was steam-driven and guaranteed to tan
the toughest hide. One of the main
criticisms of flogging is that it brutalises
the (logger; hence the suggestion of
passing the job over to a machine. But in
that case wouldn’t the man who pressed
the button to start the machine become
brutalised? Or*is it intended that the
victim himself should press the button?
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“H.A.L.”: I agree with “Swelpme” (B.
29/10/’52) that what a person reads
when relaxing is no guide to his intelli-
gence. When I was a youngster my
father took-me to visit a Supreme Court
judge at his weekend home. While look-
ing at the garden we came to an arbor
with a whole lot of Deadwood Dicks
and Nick Carters stacked on shelves.
When my father remarked: “This must
be your kiddy’s library,” the judge said,
“No, mine.” He confessed that after a
diet of Blackstone all the week he liked
“something wild and woolly” at the
SiD BLAC£
“I’d do anything for YOU, Norma—I'd even go back to th'
44-hour Week.”
weekend. When we were leaving he gave
me a stack of the oldest of them. I read
them and passed them on to my school-
mates, but had I known then what I
know now, I would have put them away
as something better than a life-insurance
policy. Today the early numbers of
Deadwood Dick, Buffalo Bill and so on
are collectors’ items in America.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: A problem akin to the query as
to where flies go in the winter-time is
where do sideshow “freaks” live out of
season? One never seems to meet
bearded ladies, wild men, pygmies, pin-
headed Chinamen, tattooed gentry, giants,
pig-faced ladies and the rest of them in
trams or trains. Do they stay at guest-
houses or pubs, and, if so, do they re-
main in their rooms all day and only
venture out by night?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pat”: For several weeks most
Sydney adults have been accepting their
offspring’s passion for collecting “locusts,”
with something approaching equanimity ;
on the principle, no doubt, that every-
body’s doin’ it. On a bus loaded with
school-kids I noticed almost every child
held a hole-punched cardboard-box, each
containing its victim. One laddie, how-
ever, clutched his locust in his hand. An
indignant conductor wrested it from him,
lectured him sternly on kindness to fellow-
creatures and, tossed the insect out upon
the breeze. A good deed, perhaps, but
the stricken look upon the youngster’s
face made me wonder if kindness in that
instance had not operated in favor of the
wrong fellow-creature.
“Tame”: Tell “Ceg,” who asks what
has happened to the copying-presses that
once were an essential part of office
equipment (B. l/10/’52), that, so far as
New Zealand is concerned, many of them
have found their way into printing-
offices ; small shows use them for proof-
presses or in small binding jobs. Once
I saw one being used by a manufacturer
of perspex cigarette-cases. Twenty years
ago I bought a press .for 2s. 6d. in an
auction-room; later I swopped it and
7s. 6d. for a folio-size press ; but now they
run to £5. Dealers have combed out
lawyers’ offices, the Government offices
(where hundreds of presses must have
been in use once) and other points for
supplies. However, some law offices still
take press ? copies of extra-special docu-
ments.
“Apple Isle”: That customer who
growled about the samples of cheese (B.
12/11 /’52) brought to mind a picture of
my mother sampling slices off the differ-
ent cheeses on the grocer’s counter be-
fore making her choice. Times have
changed. An old bloke I know of planks
a penny on the counter ; when the grocer
stares at him, wondering what the hell
he thinks he can buy for a penny, the
old bloke asks for a slice of cheese. After
a long chew and a thoughtful pause he
either says thanks and leaves the shop or
orders a quarter of a pound.
♦£+
“Bethune”: I suppose it’s what they
call adding insult to injury. Back from
a publisher came my rejected manuscript.
I can understand the mailing-clerk stamp-
ing the wrapping “Manuscript Only.”
That was to get the benefit of cheaper
postage-rates. But surely he could have
been more tactful than-to add a further
imprint “Not for sale”?
+*♦ ♦> ♦>
“Smithy”: A stranger to Melbourne, I
asked a benign old gentleman for direc-
tion. He began to oblige, then broke off
to ask if I understood English. It may
have been my Tasmanian accent, but can
any New Australian tell me what “Can
you direct pie to Collins-street?” means
in his language? $
♦♦♦ *x* ❖
“Piper”: I venture to suggest that any-
one who succumbs to the habit of walk-
ing Sydney streets looking up to the tops
of buildings instead of down at his boots
will never return to a more normal pro-
gress. There’s a grim humor in the lofty
weal.th of mid-Victorian sculpture that
makes the G.P.O. carvings look like the
work of a Rodin by comparison. Scien-
tifically-minded families need not go to
Jenolan for a demonstration of stalac-
tites : they hang under the railway-bridge
over Eddy-avenue and from the roofs of
the subways under the Bridge. Forlorn-
hopes department can be viewed at a
glance on the overhead wires between
Nos. 1 and 2 wharves, Circular Quay.
The snarl of fishing-lines blackened and
knotted round the wires bear silent wit-
ness to the frustrations ®f anglers whose
casting techniques must have been, for
years, more vigorous than accurate.
THE COMPLEAT GARDENER
“Most women have a natural flair foi
gardening.” — “Truth.
It was Adam, I fancy, who delved
While Eve was supposed to be spin-
ning —•
An order that now has been shelved.
Of course, in the very Beginning
It worked well enough
For so simple a pair,
Untrammelled by civilisation.
Could she dig in the bup
With her coloring fair.
Risking freckles from Sol s radia-
tion ?
Their garden was not very big;
With very few problems to grapple
Eve did keep an eye on the fig,
And a keener one still on the apple.
On the rest of the fruit
And the flowers as well,
To say nothing of veges in season
Adam worked like a brute.
In the shade Eve would spell.
For the very aforementioned reason.
But the daughter of Eve living now
Knows well she’s a much better gard’ner
{Though she’s never too damp at the
brow )
Than her lawful, her lord and her
pardner.
For she quietly weeds
Out the friends that he had
As soon as her marriage commences.
She also succeeds
{For she must be well clad )
In pruning back hard his expenses.
She digs—in his pockets at night,
Working silently, so she’ll not wake
him.
Should he land home a trifle too tight.
Fore and aft she will angrily rake him.
Rambling habits ? Well, those
She will ruthlessly treat —
To her they are most irritating.
She’s a whale on the hose;
Whilst the social elite
Is something she loves cultivating.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
VAMPIRE JET, NEWCASTLE
A scream awakes the city from its daze
Of normal goings-on, and every eye
Is turned in sudden focus on the sky.
The quick see quickie glimpses of the
quick,
The jetted bat for which the city stops;
A Vampire flickers past the building-tops.
A Vampire streaking homeward to its
cave
To rest its wings and then again prepare
To find itself new, life, go sucking air.
N.S.W.
LAN HEALY.


At Christmas time
say it with
Wine...
sdf
of course
*
PERSONAL ITEMS
Superintendent of Technical Schools in
S. Australia since 1937, Gilbert Sherman
McDonald had the unusual, but practical,
qualification of having served his appren-
ticeship in cabinetmaking. He switched
to schoolteaching in 1914, enlisted the
following year, was badly wounded in
Palestine with the 3rd Light Horse and
invalided home. Before reaching the
superintendency he did three years’ solid
work in Papua, establishing a technical
education system for the Methodist Mis-
sionary Society. The other day he was
appointed Deputy-director of Education
in his State. Bowls without bias is his
chief study out of school.
Long and lean, with a tanned look
about him, Dick Ludowici (here sketched
by Prior) belongs to the leather manu-
facturing concern which, started by
Granddad Ludowici in 1858, now rates
as possibly the biggest in its field in Aus-
tralia. Recently elected president of the
Federated Master Tanners’ and Leather
Manufacturers’ Association, he’s a direc-
tor and assistant g.-m. of J. C. Ludowici
and Son, Ltd. He’s been going flat-out
since, 22 years back, he left Shore.
Aware that changing machinery required
LUDOWICI, of that firm.
different methods of propulsion, Ludo-
wici has helped to build up (as well as
retaining the firm’s interest in leather-
belting and suchlike) a sizeable business
in purely engineering driving methods —
metal driving-shafts, bearings and so on.
When not leathering he’s usually to be
found trying to tan the hide off a trout,
or a golf-ball—in that order of
preference.
Atom team:
Australia takes a long pull forward towards
adulthood in matters atomic with the creation
of the Atomic Energy Commission. A pretty
good trio has been picked for the job. Jack
Stevens, chairman, has been on the inside since
1950, when he took on the secretaryship of the
Department of National Development. On the
military side he’s not exactly on the outer,
either, he having won the D.S.O. in Syria
(brigadier) and led the 6th Australian Divi-
sion in New Guinea (major-general). For four
years after the war he was g.-m. of the Overseas
Telecommunications Commission.
Chemical-engineering (a handy subject) is the
forte of John Philip Baxter, a Welshman who
directed research in the general chemicals divi-
sion of the vast 1.C.1. set-up before heading for
Oak Ridge, Tennessee, a distinguished member
of the British-American team whose efforts came
to explosive fruition over Hiroshima. Now Pro-
fessor of Chemical Engineering in the N.S.W.
University of Technology.
Uranium and suchlike must first, of course,
be mined. And in that field H. M. Murray
has over 20 years’ know-how to offer the new
commission, mainly garnered with the Mt. Lyell
Co., in which he’s held most executive posts,
including g.-m., his present. Academically
holder of Melbourne University degrees in
science and metallurgical engineering, practically
he holds a reputation as one of the country’s
top-bracket mining-engineers.
“Macnefl”: The R.A.N. is steadily
building-up its strength—new destroyers
commissioned, destroyers not-so-new re-
commissioned as modem sub.-killers, a
new Naval air-station opened, and, the
other day, another carrier taken over by
an Australian steaming party in the U.K.
Captain Henry Mackay Burrell will find
the bulk of Vengeance a bit strange, he
being a destroyerman who had Norman
when she carried Sir Walter Citrine to
Russia in 1942, and when she helped
convey the assault-force which took
Madagascar. He was in convoy with
sister-ship Nestor when she got hers in
the Mediterranean, and with carrier
Hermes and Australian Vampire when
Jap dive-bombers got them off Ceylon.
Later, skipper of Bataan, he was in
Manila Bay when MacArthur took the
Jap surrender. One of the two who passed
out of Parramatta High School into the
R.A.N. College in January, 1918 (the
other was Bulletin artist “Lock,” father
of Prendergast), Burrell is the son of a
headmaster who wielded the tawse at
Prospect (N.S.W.), where the only water
is to be found in the reservoir. Now a
nuggety, bushy-eyebrowed 48, Captain
Burrell was Australia’s first Naval Attache
—Washington, 1941.
A former Adelaide schoolteacher, John
Flanagan (who won a suitcase from
TA.A. through no fault of his own except
that he was the airline’s three-millionth
passenger), is the author of a revolutionary
book. Going by the innocent name of
Numbers i it has upset the science of
mathematics as taught in schools by
greatly simplifying arithmetic. The tome
has sold 200,000 copies and will soon
be a standard textbook throughout the
country’s educational systems.
Among next year’s A.B.C. musical
importations will be Hans Schmidt-
Isserstedt, who was orchestral conductor
at the Berlin Municipal Opera House till,
in the late war, the building was rubbled
m an air-raid. When the Germans sub-
sequently delivered Hamburg over to the
British one of the conditions was that
Radio Hamburg should be handed over
intact. The Occupation authorities
wanted a conductor ; they found Schmidt-
Isserstedt living on a farm near Hamburg.
They gave him an orchestra of 100, which
he built up into one of the world’s finest
—the Hamburg Radio Symphony. He
was one of the conductors sought after
to replace Galliera as permanent con-
ductor of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra.
Signor Dr. Luca Luigi Carlo Filippo
Dainelli, Italian Consul, joined Musso-
lini’s diplomatic service at 22, was kicked
out by Musso, joined the Underground,
helped Allied p.-0.-w. to escape from his
country, and in the liberation campaign
that followed won the Italian Military
Cross and the American bronze Star.
After the enemy evacuation he got back
his old post, and saw most of the world
before landing in Australia. Here he
looks after the affairs of his countrymen
over a territory stretching from Mel-
bourne to the shores of the Indian Ocean.
The last The Bulletin heard of the
activities of James Francis Dwyer, Aus-
tralian author very much at large,
was that he was wandering with a’
typewriter and a capacity for making
friends round North Carolina, after hav-
ing been chased from his home in France
by Hitler. Listed in the American Who’s
Who, author of over 1000 stories printed
in American magazines, Dwyer was inter-
viewed by a Carolina paper, which, after
quoting some alleged experiences of
Dwyer’s which would make even an
Aboliar blush, finally concluded that
James Francis was “a queer bird.”
Certainly a colorful bird, he travelled over
most of the known globe, once getting in
a good stretch of no-man’s-land —across
the Sahara to Timbuctoo. He put his
experiences between the covers of some
dozen books, and published the last in
1949. Called Leg Irons on Wings, it told
of his early days at Camden (N.S.W.), of
his conviction while a postal official in
Sydney and of the three years he served
in Goulbum jail. It was from there he
smuggled out his first writings, which
appeared in this paper under the appro-
priate nibname of “Burglar Bill.” The
Bulletin records, with regret, that it has
now heard the last of James Francis —he
died the other day at his home in Pau,
in the French Pyrenees, aged 78.
“Uramao”: Appointed a temporary
magistrate in New Zealand, Lindsay
Inglis knows something of magistrating,
he having been Chief Judge of the
Control Commission’s Supreme Court in
the British zone of Germany. Also,
something of soldiering—major and M.C.
winner in War I; and in the later shindy
brigade-commander on Crete and in the
Libyan campaign, and, at Alamein,
major-general in command of the Enzed
Division. After Crete he was flown to
England to give advice on how Cretan
lessons could be applied to an expected
Channel crossing ; and was given an audi-
ence by the King. Inglis resigned in 1950,
with C. 8., C.B.E. and D.S.O. added to
his War I Cross.
“Friar Tuck” weighs ’em in:
The opponent of our then commanding officer,
“Rosy” (subsequently Major-General Sir
Charles Rosenthal, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.)
in those Homeric one-man-tug-o’-war contests
aboard the Rangitira, on the original Anzac
convoy (B. 12/11/’52), was Jim Thorne. A
professional rowing-coach who put his age
back 20 years to enlist for that “grand tour,”
Thorne scaled 15.10 to Rosy’s 15.5. The
parson of the same Bulletin article, who
enlisted as a gunner and was a lieutenant when
he was killed in action in France, was Paddy
Hare—a really grand fellow, who knew how to
use his fists. The crew of the Rangitira put
up a challenge for Paddy to fight the ship’s
prize bully, a Liverpool tough who started to
fight dirty when he found he had met his
match. What Paddy did to him then was
nobody’s business, till some of the crew who
had backed their man heavily started to wade
in. It was only the intervention of the ship’s
captain and Rosy that averted a massacre of
the ship’s crew. Later, at Lemnos, on the
Cardiganshire, Rosy called all troops to atten-
tion and handed over church parade to Corporal
Hare before the Landing.
For 14 years after graduating into long
pants Cecil Gallagher (appended here-
under) worked on the Darling Downs
and in western Queensland for McPhie
and Co., at that time the biggest stock-
and station-agents in the State. For 35
years Gallagher has been an approved
valuer, his inspections ranging from the
Cape to the N.S.W. border. So that,
when he bought Millie, a 40,000-acre
sheep-property near Charleville, he was
not exactly blindfolded at the deal. Hav-
ing personally managed this considerable
slice, and highly developed it, he sold
out, to acquire Norwood, 67,000 acres
near Blackall, on the Barcoo. In 1947
Gallagher decided he’d sample Brisbane
GALLAGHER, of several acres.
lights, and settled there-among—after
adding to his interest another little slice
of Barcoo country (24,000 acres’ worth)
near by Norwood. Both properties now
carry a high-class Merino flock. In Bris-
bane, golf, racing and presiding over the
Queensland Taxpayers’ Association are
his main interests —when not studying
wool-market reports.
Frank Heath, who won the competi-
tion for the £1 million Olympic Stadium
in Melbourne, is 44, wears a black mous-
tache, has a nose of Olympian propor-
tions, a shy manner and a keen eye for
the constructional side of architecture.
He evidently used the said eye to advant-
age when he attended the Games in Hol-
land in 1928, with no idea in his head
that he would be in the position of pro-
viding accommodation for upwards of
HEATH, of the Olympic Stadium.
6000 international athletes in Melbourne.
In those days he was consulting-engineer
to the Electricity Commission, busy
shoving Nature about in the Latrobe
Valley, as well as in a host of country
districts which had engaged him as town-
planner. This work of his was
recognised in England by his being made
a member of the Royal Society of British
Architecture, as well as of the Town-
planning Institute of London. Four
years ago he was one of four winners in
the Housing Commission’s competition,
and was later made one of its advisory
panel; recently he won the Sir James
Barrett gold medal for having done most
for town-planning in Victoria. When
implemented, his Olympic design will give
Australia one of the most commodious
stadiums in the world —there are only a
couple in America that come into the
same class.
W. R. Read, Independent member for
Victoria Park in the Westralian Assembly
since 1945, retires at the end of the present
session. A big cove who runs a
pharmacy, he was independent in the
House, though he generally sided with
the McLarty Government in important
divisions. Read’s retirement might
embarrass the Government in next year’s
election. Before he won it, Victoria Park
had always been a safe “Labor” seat.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 67, Martin Christophersen,
who left his native Svendborg, in Denmark, to
try his future on this side, After some years
with the Pacific Phosphate Co. in the South
Sea Islands, he settled in Australia; and left
again with the sth M.T. Coy. of the Ist A.I.F.
In Sydney after the war he introduced to the
Australian public a popular confection of ice-
cream and chocolate known as the Eskimo-pie.
Later, in Brisbane, he founded an ice-cream co.
which amalgamated with the Peters interests,
Christophersen becoming managing-director of
the combine. He had been Danish Consul for
Queensland since 1944.
In London, David McCall-McCowan, manager
in Melbourne for Burns Philp. With the Black
Watch in War I in India, Irak, Palestine and
Syria, he was seconded to staff in occupied
enemy countries, based in Gaza, then joined
Bums Philp in Sydney. In War II he wds a
member of the Shipping Control Board.
At 39, in Kalgoorlie, while presiding over a
meeting of the Goldfields branch of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy,
Kenneth Brinsden, manager of the Croesus Pty.
and Treatment Plant. His father, Frederick
Brinsden, was for many years manager of the
South Kalgurli mine.
At St. George (S.A.), at 76, Walter Scott
Murray, whose name in stud-sheep circles was
just about synonymous with Merinos. All his
life in the pastoral industry, W.S. jackerooed in
western Queensland and the n.-w, of Westralia,
then took on the managership of his father’s
famed Capeedee stud at Hallett (S.A.), working-
up both his stock and a reputation which brought
buyers from all Australian States, New Zealand
and S. Africa. One-time president of the State’s
Stockowners’ and Stud Merino Breeders’ Asso-
ciations, he leaves his mark in many civic
organisations of the Hallett district.


CHRISTMAS BEETLES


ABORIGINALITIES
“L.A.P.”: Coming across a vintage
T-model Ford which had suffered a break-
down a few miles out of town the man
in the 1952 Buick pulled up and asked
ii he could help. The old man in the
Lizzie asked for a tow into town. Buick
agreed, a rope was produced and the
tow began. Everything went smoothly,
until a neighbor in a new Jaguar passed,
gave them the high sign and sped on.
Buick, forgetting his tow, put his foot
down and gave chase. Through the town
they raced, in one end and out the other,
ignoring all attempts to stop them. The
local police-sergeant seized the phone and
rang the nexf town to urge a roadblock.
“There are three maniacs heading your
way,” he began. Asked for details, he
reported: “There’s a grey Jaguar in
front doing about 80, a blue Buick chas-
ing him at about the same speed and an
old fool in a T-model Ford tooting like
blazes and trying to pass them both,”
❖ *t* *
“Disco”: Some missionaries, I note,
are condemning as “vicious” the age-old
practice among Papuans of the bride-
“Wha ’ aboot a Wee tune tae cheer us oop?”
price. Still, it has its points. It shows
that the prospective husband is a nfan of
substance, or at least has the wit to raise
the wind. It encourages parents to give
the girls a decent upbringing and enhance
their value. It makes a man treat his wife
better if he feels she has been worth
something, and it shows the wife straight
away that her husband has made a
sacrifice for her. It makes unmarried girls
look their best as often as possible, and
thus improves the adjacent scenery. It is
liable to stop mother-in-law’s silly idea
that she still has a proprietary, rather than
a friendly, interest in the girl. It makes a
youngster work hard in his adolescence
so that he v will be prepared to marry.
Maybe the Papuans could be persuaded to
send a few missionaries down this way.
* ♦ * *
“Billy T.”: I see by the financial
section of “S. M. Herald” —the wife
wrapped my lunch in it —that another
goldmining compand is to be floated in
New Guinea, with the disarming name
of Woodlark. I wonder how many of the
prospective shareholders ever saw Wood-
lark Island. In appearance it
was the dream Pacific Island,
green, lush jungle draped over
hills not too high, the reef a mile
out breaking all heavy swells,
leagues of soft, creamy sand
fringing a warm lagoon of
crystal clarity and gently-shelv-
ing depth. One of the remote
islands worth holding in the
days when the Jap’s cunning
had to be constantly considered,
it stands about 100 miles south-
east of the Trobriands; there
weren’t many of our chaps
there, but if you happened to be
bound for Kiriwina on the
duty-run Dakota that did the
round trip of certain islands,
and if the weather had blotted-
out K.—as it sometimes did—
then you got a trip on to Wood-
lark, where you had a scrump-
tious swim before continuing
on, and- probably looking up
some cobbers at the Bay before
bumping back over the Owen
Stanleys to Goodenough or
Dobadura or wherever it was
that you sweated the days
through. Didn’t know there was
gold on Woodlark —not that
you’d expect the blokes there to shout it
out, even if they knew; but they say the
yellow metal doesn’t tarnish, and that
goes also for the memories some of us
hold for a gleaming island at its brilliant
best.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: The crayfish, as well as
the whale and the porpoise, uses sound
as a medium of subterranean communi-
cation with its kind (B. 19/11 /’52). The
cray uses a bleating note which is strong
magnet for sharks, and sea-wise Torres
Straits Island Binghi is so well aware
of this that he doesn’t dally when trans-
ferring to the dinghy the crustacean
victims of his spear. Old Nawi, of Moa
Island, told me that his foreshortened
left arm was his souvenir of the one
occasion on which he carried his first
cray, speared in a cavern some fathoms
down, while he stalked another quarry.
Nawi suddenly felt himself whisked along
ill an upside-down position to the mouth
of the cave, where he managed to throw
his free arm around a rocky outcrop
and thus obtained a purchase against
the pull of the shark which had engulfed
his other arm. After a few seconds the
sea-lawyer made off with his hijacked
spoil. Nawi reached the surface, climbed
into his dinghy and paddled home before
he collapsed. Thirty years later he was
still spearing crays several fathoms down
and teaching Binghi youngsters the
golden rule about getting rid of one
quarry before stalking another,
* ♦ * *
“B. A. Ker”: The equine outlaw of
fiction always seems artificial to me ; the
greatest outlaw our district ever knew
wasn’t a magnificent chestnut or a
gleaming black; moreover —and this is
positive heresy—he wasn’t even a
stallion! He was a dirty-brown gelding
with a clubfoot and a Bible-back. But
at least two “tried and noted riders” con-
stantly failed to yard him ; they were the
local poundkeeper and assistant. Often
they collected him with a string of
potential internees, and it was no trouble
to get him to play follow-the-leader in
approved equine fashion: the assistant
riding ahead, the unsuspecting captives
Totting after and the poundie cracking
“Try him in Esperanto."
the whip in the rear. While the cavalcade
was in open country old Clubby’s
behavior was exemplary, but the moment
dense scrub appeared by the roadside
Clubby was gone, and the whole “Bar 20”
outfit couldn’t have beaten him at that
kind of “scrub-tag.” In fiction the leader
of the wild horses holds his position by
the speed of* his hooves or the savagery
of his teeth ; Clubby led the mob because
he always knew where the choicest
gardens were waiting to be looted, and
he alone could open any gate-latch in
the district. The oldest inhabitant couldn’t
guess how old he was; nevertheless, it
came as a shock when the word passed
around that Clubby was “down” on a
flat near the creek. A merciful police-
bullet put him out of his misery, but he
died like a true outlaw with (to flout
Western writers again) no shoes on,
* * * *
“Matho”; Plainly resenting the intru-
sion of a branch-line which crossed his
domain at Shellharbor (N.S.W.) to link a
blue-metal quarry with the main-line, the
Illawarra bull finally reached breaking-
point. With a magnificent gesture he
charged a train of three fully-loaded 15-
ton trucks head on. He broke his neck,
but doubtless earned an honored place in
the bovine Valhalla.
* * ♦ «
“Laetitia”: Anotherjpeculiarity ,of the
whale’s respiratory system (B. 19/11 /’52)
has been remarked upon by medico-naval
man Halliday Sutherland, who freely
admitted the feasibility of Jonah’s journey
by whaleboat, but suggested that the
prophet made the trip in the mouth and
not the belly of the cetacean. Inside the
whale’s mouth a man could stand erect,
and while his host was surfacing he would
be awash only to his knees. When the
whale dived, the closed mouth would be
an airtight chamber in which a man could
spend an hour without discomfort, as the
air would not be vitiated before the end
of this period. To test his theory Halli-
day Sutherland served afternoon-tea at
table to a party of three inside the closed
mouth of a dead whale,
* * * *
“Taswegian”; While some struggling
cockies must of necessity do most of the
work around the place themselves (B.
12/11/’52), others do it because they hate
to pay out. I worked for a month —it
was just 30 days too long—for a bloke
who, except during harvest, when he
employed one or two casuals, worked his
own 800 acres of barley, wheat and oats,
a few hundred sheep, a dozen pigs,, half-
a-dozen cows, fowls and ducks. He used
to be separating at about 11 at night.
Yes, he made money. He also was getting
heart attacks, and he didn’t look a day
over 50. One day I saw a school certificate
on his mantelpiece—it made him in his
early thirties.
* * * *
“E.G.H.”; They’re friendly people in
North Queensland —they say so them-
selves —and some recent visitors from the
south can vouch for it. Through the
breakdown of their bus 23 tourists were
stranded at Ravenshoe, many miles from
their destination. The hotelkeeper not
only managed to feed the lot, but he, his
wife and the policeman entertained them
w;ith piano-playing and songs until a
relief-bus arrived about midnight. At a
township farther north, the tourists were
assured that here friendliness was unsur-
passed. “Come to our dance —it’s in aid
of the ambulance,” they were told. Every-
thing went well until a visitor tried to
extend his friendliness to a local female.
Her friends resented this and the fight was
on. The battle between locals and “inter-
lopers” ranged in and around the pub,
the hotelkeeper was an angry, unwilling
host, the tourists were more frightened
than entertained, and the police took no
part in the performance. But the
ambulance (beneficiary of the dance) was
on hand to take the casualties to hospital.
❖ ❖ ♦+«
“C. 8.”: Probably for the first time in
history a wharf has been preserved as a
national monument. It is the 800 ft.-long
100-years-old wharf at Echuca on the
Murray which played a leading role in'
the development of the Victorian wool
industry until the railways put it out of
action. The wharf was to have been
broken up for firewood, but the Railways
Commissioners thought better of it when
the Royal Historical Society put in an
indignant protest. Echuca is to be
allowed to keep the memorial as long as
it’s looked after.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Old-timer”; One Sunday afternoon
Little Curl arrived back from the town
with his shirt torn, a deep scratch on his
face and a strip of skin ripped from his
right ribs. The hands gaped at him. “Me
dog stuck up a big old-man kanga,”
Curl said, panting with shock and excite-
ment. “Didn’t want t’ lose me dog so
I jumped off the horse an’ went up where
they was—on that pine-ridge this side
the common. Would ha’ rid the horse
up only she’s too flighty—shy at her own
shadow, she would. Well, the kanga’s
standin’ there, just waitin’ t’ grab the
dog, an’ I pick up a hunk o’ dead pine an’
make f’r him. Cripes, he was as big as
me sittin’ on his tail, but when he got up
on his toes he towers over me. He
reaches f’r me an’ I crack him with the
stick, but it just flies in pieces. Next
minute he’s got me an’ before I get
clear this is what he done.” And Curl
displayed his wounds. The hands derided
the tale, “What a beaut to put over!”
howled Pocketknife. “Kangaroo! ”
choked Fleming. “I bet his girl’s old
man got stuck inter him” “Or the
girl, more like it,” put in the boss. “Them
scratches look more like a woman’s claws
than a kanga’s.” Curl scowled at them
and emulated Achilles by sulking in the
hut. They kept it up till bedtime. Just
after dawn next day Fleming got up,
went outside, then rushed back in and
called us. Four or five roos were under
the big peppermint up on the hill about
150 yards away. “I believe y’ now, Curl,”
Pocketknife said gravely. “The blankard’s
brought his mob with him!”
SATURDAY SONGS
1. MORNING
The morning baffles me.
Who has an ear for the crazy promises
Of the whip-piping morning-birds,
Darting into day’s paddocks of warmth from
cold blue halls of dew
Left by night beside the hill?
I am mocked by the way they flick their
shadows
On the blazing paddock grass.
The twittering landscape’s greeting and the
smoke from its day-fires
Already tantalise the air;
The day spreads like milk across the flats and
funnels
Of this land of half-past nine.
But what singing secret is it
That the lost train calls across the distance,
And light-hearted houses on yellow slopes
Are flashing in tin-bright messages?
What craziness it is:
It will sleep and dissolve under the weight of
noon!
2. NOON-DAY
The hills drone at me . . ,
Why is there no way to dive,
Ihrough their thin blue film, to the other side,
To enormous and shimmering places of any-
where?
What keeps the sun-sick houses waiting on their
slopes.
And the sizzling telephone-wires of noon
Suspended and forgotten?
And who is there can follow the amazing white
finger of smoke
(Fixed above the dozing banks, unheeding as
a dream)
That points to the places the train called of,
And the birds taunted?
TASMANIA.
CHRISTOPHER KOCH.


“Ercy”: The local publican went
in for a bit of sly-grogging—at
a price. The frogs inhabiting the
wet dell below the pub would com-
mence advertising his nefarious practice
an hour or two after closing-time. When
in full chorus, they could be heard for
quite a distance. The enunciation was
clear, too: “Four-bob a bottle,” “Four-
bob a bottle”!
* * * *
“Bamekaw”: In war-time Darwin the
well-dressed Digger off duty wore a pair
of Army boots and the old slouch hat.
For official occasions he donned a pair
of shorts. Lofty had pinched the camp
jeep, and, with Rusty to drive him, set
off for a top-secret U.S. show, where he
hoped to scrounge some Yank cigarettes.
At the entrance, however, he was stopped
by a guard with fixed bayonet, and a
query about passwords, visitor’s permit
and whatnot. Throwing out his chest
Lofty roared “Good God, man! Haven’t
you been taught to recognise an officer
when you see one?” The startled G.I.
snapped to a salute, and, before he could
recover, the boys had whizzed in with a
promptness that would have raised the
envy of any watching Jap spy.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Herbert Dawson”: If Murchison
dingoes don’t hunt in pairs (B. 22/10/’52)
they are out of step with the “demnition
bowwows” of our Upper Dawson (Q.)
scrubs. Our blighters pursue their
potential scran in pairs, packs, or just
plain sojo. One trick they play on that
guileless fowl the emu is performed on
the broken brigalow plains which are a
common feature of this landscape, and
generally it is a pair of dogs that do it.
The big chook is flushed out on a plain
by one of the hunters, who sticks it into
him flat-out, from barrier-rise. It is a
habit of the emu
when chased on a plain
(and apparently well-
known to the dingoes)
to circle madly round
and round it instead
of making off in a
straight line. I don’t
pretend to know why
the silly fool does this,
though one guess is that
he knows he is too
clumsy to race at his
top in timbered country
without falling over the
first stick that lies
across his path. Any-
how it suits a pair of
hunting dogs admirably.
While the first heat is
in progress, the dog not
competing for the time
being takes up a central
position, preferably in
the shade of a wild
lime-tree which is often
found about the middle
of a plain. When the
first dog has taken the
rough edge off the pur-
sued, he pulls out and
his mate takes up the
race. There can be
only one end to the
matter, and the only
factor at all uncertain is the actual time
of dining.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Dusk over the Delegate
River (N.S.W.). A wisp of smoke from
the campfire drifts beyond the bridge
as though curious to see what is written
on the white signpost across the stream.
It says Victorian Border, but that holds
no interest for a kookaburra who comes
skimming from over there to settle in a
New South Wales gum-tree, beginning
a rattly chuckle which says “Beat y’ to
it!” He lands with a thump, flicks his
tail up, and bursts into hilarity as his
mate arrives to repeat the performance
exactly but about two beats behind. Three
cobbers from points north converge on
the same limb and the volume is doubled,
drawing another couple from upstream ;
and now there are seven of them giving it
lip. The mate and I, full of tea and
contentment, stretch out beside the tent
and watch them ; the chorus rings up
and down the gully and the rattle of water
over the rapids is temporarily lost.
Uproarious laughter trails off into
spasmodic yelps, subsides to gurgles, then
one of them passes a further remark, and,
just like humans at the end of an
anecdotal session, they reckon that’s the
best one yet and away they go again, no
sign of decorum now, just full-blast
squawks and earsplitting shrieks, and
when that phase passes there are gasping
sighs with a Cripes-Fll-be-sore-tomorrow
note in them. They shuffle a bit, some
turn round, then they edge closer together
and settle into a bunch, a shapeless bulge
on the branch which nobody who had
missed its formation would think con-
tained seven birds. The river is the only
voice now; it sings a soothing song, and
we turn in, satisfied that we’ll have all
the help we need in getting an early
start next morning.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Those bfees imbibing cordial
extract (B. 5/11/ ’52) remind me of the
times when I made honey-mead. The
drink was particularly potent, and if put
into bottles it was wise to bury them as, a
safeguard against flying glass. My
favorite container was a small cask which
stood on the veranda, the tap of which
dripped a small quantity after each usage.
And did the bees like it! There were
times when nothing but a great thirst
could induce a bloke to venture near that
barrel. “Thieves and robbers,” the
missus called them. “And after all
your trouble collecting that honey
from up on the bush hill! ” Her insistence
that I chase the things away brought little
response and less result, for those workers
meant easier avenues to future supply. It
was simple enough to line the homegoers,
follow, pick up the line again at intervals
and so discover their destination and
mark the tree. Then, when the barrel
drained out, I’d hunt my raiding tools,
and again bring back their collection for
more mead.
* * * *
“N. West”: Will some Sassenach
southerner enlighten me as to the correct
description of a jinker? “J. 8.” (B.
29/10/’52) tells of the stationmaster at
Piangil being between the shafts and drag-
ging a jinker. Here in N.Q. it is a two-
wheeled contraption, weighing a ton or
more, used to carry the weight of a log
“Smell something burning , dear ?”
when being hauled by bullocks —a primi-
tive forerunner of the semi-trailer. More
up-to-date developments of steel and
pneumatic tyres, used for the same pur-
pose, are still called “jinkers,” although
their motive-power is usually a crawler-
tractor. I don’t know how big station-
masters grow in Victoria, but I’d like to
see one pull, drag, haul or snig any of the
N.Q. variety of jinker four yards, let alone
four miles.
“ Funny — y’re either on the spot or y ’ re not.”
“Chuck”: I’d paused for a breather on
the stony hillside, but it was several
minutes before I spotted the small grey
lizard a couple of feet below me. He was
as still as a stone, and not easy to pick
and to test him I began tossing small
pebbles around and upon him. Even
when they landed dead-centre there was
no movement. We’d had a lot of rain;
the thing could have been dead. I
dropped a stick on him. Yes, dead, I
decided, as a movement of my foot dis-
lodged a rock that turned over slowly
and settled on the lizard, flattening his
middle area and pinning him to the spot.
Not a flicker from the dead-like eye or
the ugly toes ; but for some reason still
suspicious, I kicked off the rock, stared
closer without learning a thing, then
slowly I picked up the crawler by the tail.
It wasn’t until I had raised it several feet
from the ground that the lizard came
suddenly to life, its four legs running
madly in mid-air. Presently, when I
dropped it, it jumped hurriedly off for
about two feet, and again “froze” into
immobility. Another barrage of pebbles
resulted as before. Considering the slow
rock, which, except for my intervention,
would have anchored the reptile to a
living death, I’m afraid these bush
creatures overdo their sitting-still stunt
at times.
* * * *
“Alison”: Twenty years ago Weary
left school in a blaze of school-boy glory.
Captain of the school, captain of all
sports, he had topped the cricket aggre-
gates in the schools’ competition that sea-
son and had many scholastic attain-
ments to boot. Since then he has been
jackeroo, soldier for six years and finally
market-gardener on his own bit of
ground. Visiting his home State for the
first time in many years, he was driving
past the old school and noticed a game
of cricket in progress, so dropped in.
One of the spectators hailed him enthusi-
astically. “If it isn’t the old gardener
himself! How are you?” “How did you
know I was a gardener?” asked Weary.
“Oh, I didn’t know that was what you
did now, but don’t you remember the
school play?” Weary does remember the
walk-on part, with one line to say, and
is still wondering what does make a man
famous..
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were holding up a
couple of veranda-posts outside the
Imperial in Cowra (N.S.W.). The day
was hot and our pockets were empty. A
brewery-wagon was unloading kegs into
the pub cellar, “Gripes,” I said, “could
I go a schooner of that!” Mat grunted.
Time passed. The wagon finished its job
and went away. Nobody invited us to
irrigate. “Strike me,” I mourned, “what
I’d do to a schooner!” Mat straightened
up. “Would half-a-schooner do you?” he
asked. “Too right.” Mat went into the
bar. “Give us a schooner,’.’ he said. It
was pulled and handed over. Mat got
about half of it into him, then spluttered,
looked blackly at the barman, walked to
the door and, outside, handed me the half-
empty glass and snapped, “Get it into y’,
quick! ” I downed it. He took the empty
schooner, went back, slammed it on the
counter and roared, “What sort o’ beer’s
that? I had t’ chuck half of it away!”
Before the barman recovered we were on
the way to Waugoola.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Further on those strangely
useful microscopic diatom skeletons
(B. 26/11 / ’52). They’re small enough
to go about 2,000,000 to the cubic
inch, but they produce skeletons
of silica which are heavy enough to sink
to the ocean-floor, and which form
deposits hundreds of feet thick. Most of
the world’s economic deposits of diato-
maceous earth were laid down millions
of years ago, but the process is still going
on, and looks like continuing for a long
time yet. In fact, these algae diatoms
seem to have all the elements of
immortality in their puny frames. They
can live under a greater variety of con-
ditions than any other form of life;
they’re found in hot springs and in polar
ice, in salt- as well as freshwater, and in
any type of climate. They’ll still be here
when the earth has become ice-covered
and all other life has perished. You
couldn’t find anything much meeker than
a diatom, or anything more likely to
inherit the earth.
* * * *
“Wiremu”: The kuri (Maori dog) men-
tioned by “H.W.” (B. 29/10/’52) also
provided a highly-relished meal reserved
for the chieftain-class. In the middens
along the southern shores of Cook Strait
(M.L.) there is still abundant evidence
that it was used extensively for food.
From the lower jawbone a cleverly con-
trived one-piece fish-hook was made
which was supposed to have special
powers in attracting and hooking fish.
When Rauparaha in his raids of 1828-
30 destroyed most of the villages and
four-fifths of the Maori population of the
northern part of the South Island,
numbers of these dogs escaped and ran
wild. These became a menace when the
land was taken up for sheep-runs; the
native dogs mated with those of the
shepherds and their progeny inflicted
havoc on the flocks. This necessitated the
employment of dog-killers, some of
whom were still operating 50 years ago.
Crossbreeding is supposed to have
eliminated the pure-bred strain soon after
European occupation, but in 1894 I was
shown a tawny-haired, short-legged, prick-
eared nondescript unlike any breed that
I knew ; it was supposed to be a pure-
bred Maori kuri.
* * * *
“Coonooer”: Time —and modern
machinery—have, I suppose, swept them
all away, but about 30 years ago there
were still some picturesque battlers on the
Inky Way of country journalism. One
trio I recall —two sons and an ancient
father —produced with great strivings a
four-page weekly in a Mallee (Vic.) farm-
ing district. On press-day one son fed
the press, the other wrapped and folded,
and Papa-well, the governor on the
engine had packed up and funds wouldn’t
run to a new one. So a bag of sand hung
by a rope from a rafter, dangling near
the flywheel of the hoary press. The
ancient stood by the bag ; when the press
bolted (as it did every 10 minutes or so)
the pressman yelled “Lean on ’er, Dad!”
Lean on ’er Dad did, pressure of the bag
on the wheel slowing ’er down to normal
for a while, and thus they got the paper
out. In the same district another weekly
was ground out by the efforts of an
elderly beer-sodden mass of broken-down
printer perspiringly rotating the handle
of a clanking heap of iron called a hand-
driven flat-bed. Occasionally the burden
of life became too heavy for the motive-
power, driving him to seek lengthy solace
in the pots —and there was no paper until
the boss got him sober again. But our
plant—we never had any trouble, apart
from ink-rollers melting in the Mallee
heat, or the failure of some of the multi-
tudinous strings and wires that kept the
engine running—never any trouble until
the day the sheriff’s officer came round
with a stack of writs for debt and put the
whole show into bankruptcy. That did
put the kibosh on things 1,
SUBURBAN BIRD-SONG
When I lived in the country
The trees beyond my door
Were stretching up and upward
A hundred feet and more,
Long trees to blot the sun away
With bracken at their feet
And wild birds shoutingdhrough the day
So harsh or shrill or sweet.
This suburb of the city
Where streets are broad and clean
Is lined with tidy houses
Magnificent or mean,
Each fronted with a tidy tree
Meticulously neat
Where little birds confidingly
Are piping shrill and sweet.
I might have loved the country,
1 cannot hate the town
While chuckling kookaburras
Are tossing laughter down,
While the utility of words
Is magic incomplete
Beside the song of nameless birds
Sweet and forever sweet.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


fds
f
ji
p
"A
From Australia—to all 6 Continents
§
BY
Swift, sure, 8.0.A.C. Speedbird services link 51
countries on all six continents . . . save days, even
weeks of travelling time. You fly without delay—
on one ticket all the way. Four-engined Speedbird
aircraft are pressurized for smooth, above the weather
flying. You relax in deep-seated comfort, enjoy
complimentary meals and meal-time drinks, and
courteous, friendly attention. No tips or extras for
traditional Speedbird service.
mm
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA . HONG
KONG . JAPAN . CEYLON . INDIA . PAKISTAN
MIDDLE EAST . AFRICA • EUROPE ' GREAT BRITAIN
U.S.A. • CANADA . CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
BERMUDA
m mw
B.O.A.C.—first with the
Qthdtij
Comet services now operating
Johannesburg—London, Colombo—London,
and Singapore—London, are forerunners of
world-wide 8.0.A.C. Jetliner services.
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd,,
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin
or from travel agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
- —— A3O/AUC
Business Rollory Etc.
Business Conditions
Commenting on the setback to
business conditions in Australia
over the past year, the National
Bank’s chairman, H. D. Giddy,
pointed out in his annual
address in Melbourne that it
isn’t surprising that the com-
munity “has felt a jolt in the
change from the frenzied expan-
sion in activity which is always
an accompaniment, and a
symptom, of active inflationary
conditions.” If left unchecked,
the inflationary process would
have galloped on to a major
economic collapse. But, as
result of the overseas trade situa-
tion, the emergence of buyer-
resistance to ever : higher costs
and prices, and Government
financial policy, new conditions
now confront Australian indus-
try and commerce, “and a fresh
breeze, in the form of competi-
tion, has swept over the
economy,”
Money, said Mr. Giddy, can
ho longer be regarded as some-
thing which does not matter, and
public demand for commodities
can no longer be taken for
granted. Unfortunately the
change had not been accom-
panied by a general reduction in
costs —these continued to in-
crease, and were dangerously
high ; obviously the nation could
no longer afford irresponsibility
in management or among em-
ployees. The growth in whole-
sale prices in Australia since
1939 had outstripped that in
New Zealand, Canada or the
United States. A return to in-
flation (which some people seem
to favor) would kill the possi-
bility of reducing costs. High
internal costs tend to fall with
full force upon the export in-
dustries.
Results of the harder times
through which we are passing
were a sudden improvement in
productivity and a new emphasi
on business efficiency. Not a]
the improvement had been due
to actual productive effort, bu
partly to a better supply of raw
materials.
Mr. .Giddy considers that taxa
tion can be reduced, to the grea
benefit of industrial efficiency
and incentive, even if not back
to pre-war levels. If the free-
enterprise system is to prevail
taxation will have to be reducec
greatly. The Bulletin has
pointed out many times that in
Australia there is not enough
production, not enough effi-
ciency, not enough profit, not
enough savings, not enough in-
vestment. There is little or no
surplus production above ordi-
nary consumer demand to repre-
sent real savings. Without real
savings we cannot, through our
own efforts, finance expenditure
on public works or private
capital enterprise.
Unless private enterprise is
permitted to make profits large
enough to expand and reproduce
itself, as well as to subscribe to
Government loans, then our
democratic economy must col-
lapse, with totalitarianism
triumphant.
At present we are half-way
along the road to nowhere. Our
wanderings have been checked
by Federal Government action
and by the change in economic
affairs abroad. But there must
be no losing sight of the fact
that unless private industry as a
whole is allowed to make larger
profits, after payment of taxa-
tion, than is the rule at present,
then free enterprise will perish
through an insidious type of
hemorrhage which further in-
flation would only accelerate.
Grocery and General
The big chain - grocery
concern which amalgamated
numerous other chain and
individual grocery stores under
the title of Grocery and General
Merchants is having trouble.
Mostly, it seems, stock trouble.
It says, in its last annual report
(to June 30); “Subject to re-
valuation of stocks, wholesale
and retail units of the group
traded satisfactorily during the
year, and in addition, certain
freeholds were sold at figures in
excess of balance-sheet valua-
tions.”
But the consolidated trading
loss of the group for the period
was £388,372 ; deducting £50,887
surplus from sale of fixed assets,
and adding £32,045 provision for
additional 1951 income tax, the
net deficit for the year was
£369,530, compared with a
profit of £177,011 shown in 1951.
The co. began in 1949 as a
merger of D. Mitchell and Co.,
Bussell Bros., David Cohen and
Co. and North Western General
Stores. There was an over-all
writing-up of about 45 p.c. in
the capital reconstruction, though
D. Mitchell shareholders received
nothing in the way of capital-
increment. Paid capital at listing
was £955,169. The figure rose
to £1,858,126 (including £400,000
in prefs.) by June, 1951, largely
as the result of the absorption
of other grocery businesses
throughout N. S. Wales.
Freeholds and plant figured at
£2,485,410 last balance-day,
when stocks totalled £2,843,275
(down £154,853). Debtors
amounted to £1,164,985. The
co. and its subsidiaries owed
outsiders £4,876,527, including
£3,072,938 (up £1,233,611) on
overdraft.
Paul Cullen has resigned as
managing-director (but stays on
the board); Norman Tieck has
become managing - director.
Orwell Phillips has resigned from
the board because of ill health.
Raymont Moore has joined the
directorate. Ashley Buckingham,
chairman of directors, says that
the company’s bankers (Com-
mercial of Sydney) “have shown
an understanding in the diffi-
culties we have experienced as
an expanding organisation, and
their support and co-operation is
greatly appreciated.”
G. and G. ss. ords. have
dropped to 3s. 2d. in the share-
market. They touched a peak
of 9s. 7d. in 1951.
Papuan Oil Search
“Lemon”: After 16 years of
continuous (apart from the war
interruption) and exhaustive
search for commercial oil, with
results which would have dis-
couraged from further effort
practically any other organisation
not bolstered by public funds,
Australasian Petroleum Co. Pty.,
Ltd., and Island Exploration Co.
Pty., Ltd., announce that they
are about to undertake an air-
borne magnetic survey of an
area of 35,000 square miles in
the southern portion of the
Western Division of Papua, from
approximately the Turama River
westwards and southwards to
the Dutch New Guinea border.
The survey will be carried out
by an Aeromagnetic Surveys,
Ltd., Canso Catalina flying-boat
carrying a team of Canadian ex-
perts who are to arrive in mid-
December. The purpose of the
survey is to obtain, rapidly, a
general picture of the hidden
basement-rock “landscape” and
to determine the approximate
thicknesses of the overlying
sedimentaries over the wide area
covered by alluvium and swamp.
This will facilitate and narrow-
down the more detailed and
costly work of the three seismic
parties now collecting data on
the masked structures into which
the sedimentary —and possibly
petroliferous—beds have been
moulded.
The two cos. have already
taken aerial photographs of
28,000 square miles of territory
and have carried out very exten-
sive geological surveys, both
reconnaissance and detailed,
with the aid of gravitymeter
and seismograph. Seven test-
wells have been drilled with a
total footage of 58,900 feet.
Most of the work has been
accomplished under very diffi-
cult conditions of terrain and
formation, and the expenditure
involved, amounting to a total
of £9,500,000, cannot be con-
sidered as excessive.
When the exploratory pro-
gramme is completed, either oil
will have been struck in quan-
tity or it will be possible to
state, with confidence, that any
reasonable chance of the exist-
ence of commercial amounts of
crude petroleum now within
reach of the finest modern tech-
nique and equipment is absent
in Papua.
Rye Park Scheelite
The ls,-paid 2s. shares in Rye
Park Scheelite, N.L., have been
selling around Is. 3d. in Sydney,
after a rise to Is. lid. There
are five million shares issued.
The property is near Boorowa
(N.S.W.), and the co.’s prospec-
tus spoke of 82,500 tons of
“proved and blocked-out” ore
assaying 1.52 p.c. WO3. But,
as The Bulletin pointed out on
November 19, the report of the
Bureau of Mineral Resources,
included in the prospectus, said
that “none of the ore-tonnages
given in the reserves can be
placed in the strict category of
proved or blocked-out ore,”
adding that the reserves can be
“safely designated as ‘indi-
cated.’ ”
(The prospectus said that the
report itself provided “a com-
plete description of the mine
and the present proven ore and
probabilities of additional ore. '
Testing was carried out by the
vendor, Tungsten Consolidated,
which also supplied the Bureau
of Mineral Resources with
diamond-drill core-assay data
used in its report. Drilling and
exploration of the property cost
the vendor “approximately
£20,000.” Total cost of the
property to Rye Park Scheelite
was £145,000, and it has ear-
marked the balance of the
£500,000 to be raised for roads,
plant, brokerage, preliminary
expenses and working capital. It
is proposed to work the show
as an opencut.
The prospectus based estimates
of profits on the basis of 4255.
sterling a unit for WOB. Allow-
ing for an 85 p.c. recovery, re-
turns of £34 6s. a ton of ore
were spoken of, with costs at £4.
Last week the price for tungsten
ore in London was 4005., c.i.f.,
per unit.
Masonite Contribs.
The contributing shares in
Masonite will be fully paid
when a final call of 10s. a share
falls due on January 31, 1953.
Meantime the contribs. may be
picked up at 28s. 6d,, which
compares with 435. for the fully-
paids.
Allowing for the larger
amount of div. accruing on the
f.p.’s, the contribs. are obviously
better buying to the extent of
three or four shillings. The ord.
div. last year was 12£ p.c. out
of profits disclosed at just
around that rate on ord. capital.
Though the new capital is un-
likely to earn its keep for some
time, the co. may be able to in-
crease its earnings this year if it
gets more favorable considera-
tion from Price-control. The
upward pressure of costs against
a too-rigid prices limit has been
the co.’s chief problem in recent
years. The product has been
readily saleable and the plant
efficient.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices}
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
4 AND PERTH
sdf
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 1, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
Missing Friend
FREDERICK WILLIAM FIELD, probably
known as WILLIAM CLIFFORD, formerly
of Timaru, New Zealand, last heard of
in Sydney in December, 1939, is requested
to communicate with the undersigned.
Will any person aware of his present
address supply same ? —DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Timaru, New Zealand.
TENDERS
FOR THE PURCHASE OF
COPRA PLANTATIONS
Sealed Tenders endorsed “Tenders purchase Kyllert Estate”
will be received by
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
[Trustee of the Estate of the late Petrus Laurentius Kyllert]
until 5 p.m. on the 16th day of January, 1953, for the
purchase of the following Copra Plantations
• “Stockholm”—Bainings District, New Britain.
474 hectares 99 years lease from 7/2/1930.
Formerly 282 hectares planted 40,000 palms and also
3,500 inter planted cacao.
• “Londolovit” Lihir Island, New Ireland.
290 hectares 99 years lease from 27/10/1926.
Formerly whole area planted 40,000 palms.
• “Maragon” —Simberi Island.
294 hectares Freehold.
Formerly whole area planted about 23,000 palms.
Full particulars on application
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1952
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £30,569,832
Money at Short Call —London 2,843,750
Short-dated Treasury Bills Australia
and London 34,250,000
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia • • 43,120,000
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of
New Zealand 3,602,589
Government Securities Australia, New
Zealand, and Fiji 19,535,105
Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities’
Securities 521,952
Due by other Banks 10,767,927
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit 37,432,853
182,644,008
Loans and Advances to Customers .. .. 207,857,008
Bank Premises • • • • 5,100,000
All other Assets 9,794
395,610,810
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra .. .. .. .1 * 46,900,937
£442,511,747
LIABILITIES
Issued and Paid-up Capital—439,ooo Ordin-
ary Shares of £2O each £8,780,000
Reserve Fund £6,650,000
Proposed Transfer from
Profit and Loss Account 350,000
7,000,000
Pinal Dividend proposed 175,600
Profit and Loss to be carried forward .. 338,638
16,294,238
Notes in Circulation 80,955
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate, Bills
Payable and other Liabilities, including
Reserves held for Doubtful Debts and
other Contingencies 379,235,617
395,610,810
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra .. ... .. 46,900,937
£442,511,747
Net Profit for Year ended SOth September,
1952 £997,769
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
DIRECTORS
MARTIN McILRATH, Esq., hon. ll.d. (Sydney), President
The Hon. C. A. SINCLAIR
JOHN CADWALLADER, Esq.
Sir LESLIE MORSHEAD
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.C., D.S.O.
The Hon. R. C. WILSON,
C.M.G., M.L.C.
D. B. LEWINGTON, Esq.
S. G. ROWE, Esq., d.s.o.
General Manager —S. J. GANDON
Assistant General Manager —H. C. C. MARSHALL
Chief Inspectors —
R. J. ABERCROMBIE, A. STEWART-RICHARDSON,
R. R. McKELLAR
(INOOBPORATED IN NBW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A 52228
if any “Bulletin*’ illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Landan airmail
From Herbert Holman
As was expected, the Queen’s
Speech indicates that the Gov-
ernment intends to cut down
legislation to a minimum. The
two main bills are concerned
with the unscrambling of the
nationalised iron-and-steel in-
dustries and the transport ser-
vices. This issue promises a
sharp and bitter conflict, despite
the divisions within the Labor
party.
For the rest, Mr. Churchill
plainly intends to move slowly
and cautiously. Having checked
the disastrous profligacy that
had already got out of hand
when he took over, he must
now turn to the long-term job
of providing for the future, as
distinct from the less difficult
one of correcting past errors.
The export situation is not rosy,
and production is falling away.
Our aim, according to the
“Times,” is “high output, high
sales, high investment, high em-
ployment and high earnings....
It is by expansion and not re-
striction that the cure can be
pursued.” The Government’s
task is the traditional one of
creating the conditions so that
trade and business can function
smoothly and efficiently.
Ultimately, the Budget—ex-
pected to be severe —will be the
main instrument, but that will
depend upon the outcome of the
forthcom in g Commonwealth
Prime Ministers’ Conference.
From the amount of prepara-
tion both by Ministers and by
the civil service, it is clear that
great hopes rest in the proceed-
ings of this conference. The
Whitehall views may not meet
with unanimous assent. It would
certainly be surprising if they
did.
The Government seems to
take the view that the purpose
of the conference is not immedi-
ate self-help, with the delegates
working out their urgent needs,
like merchants on ’Change. It
is seen rather as a first approxi-
mation to a wider economic
integration with the dollar coun-
tries that will, it is fervently
hoped, follow in good time. Be-
hind this lies the uncomfortable
realisation that British capital is
being laid out in projects that
must, sooner or later, impede
rather than foster general re-
covery—if not actually draining
away our own lifeblood. In
other words, the British aim
will be to try to influence the
Dominions, and Australia par-
ticularly, away from the half-
necessities of secondary indus-
tries to the production of food
and, more urgently, to the de-
velopment of raw materials and
minerals vital to the U.S.A.
Conservatives Stronger
No one would have dared
think, 12 months ago, that Mr.
Churchill’s Government could
possibly have ridden out the
storm so well. An overall
majority of some 17 seats
promised nothing but shiftless-
ness and a possible alternation
of Governments at the whim of
whoever happened to be in
opposition.
Yet two by-elections have sug-
gested that the Tories, so far
from being merely uneasily dug
in, are quite firmly entrenched.
The first one, a safe Labor seat,
proved little: only that the
Tories had increased their
support slightly. Because of
man’s natural tendency to be
“agin” authority, this runs
counter to the normal run of
by-elections.
But the second one—the mar-
ginal constituency of High
Wycombe, Bucks.—seems con-
clusive, and has caused Labor
morale to sag. The Tories, who
regained the seat at the last
general election, again have a
slightly increased majority.
Their candidate was new to the
constituency, while Labor’s had
previously fought and held the
seat. He is also an able and
diligent representative, well
respected by all parties. So that
his personal “pull” was coun-
terbalanced by one of two
considerations: either greater
confidence in the Tories or less
in the Socialists.
The electorate, while not
apathetic, was noticed to be
rather uninterested under-
standably a little weary, perhaps,
of politics and politicians—but
the poll was high. (Its attitude
is beside the point, but would
seem to be; “Get on with your
job and don’t behave like spoiled
children!”) Probably the split
in the Labor party was the de-
ciding factor among those who
had not already aligned them-
selves to either party, if only for
the simple reason that people
who quarrel among themselves
are unfit for responsibility.
Another important factor was
the incidence of local unemploy-
ment (Wycombe is a centre of
chair-making). All the Labor
speakers (from Bevanites, who
were brought in to show that
no real disagreement existed, to
Mr. Attlee himself) pulled out
their stops on this theme. Per-
haps the time-worn bogies are
losing effect. One —the war-
mongering charge of the general
election —certainly whizzed back
with boomerang effect upon the
discomfited Socialists.
All in all, the Conservatives
are very pleased with themselves
and their prospects. This grati-
fying result is a touch of good
fortune that they never hoped
for.
Meanwhile, the Labor organ-
isers are sick with disappoint-
ment. They realise that they can
no longer take for granted that
the electorate will swing in their
favor. What they are doing
with heightened righteousness is
to blame it all on Mr. Bevan.
Down and Out
“The Square Ring” (Lyric
Theatre, Hammersmith) is a first
play by Australian Ralph W.
Peterson about the hinterland of
professional boxing. It is a
legitimate and successful essay
in documentation which uses the
resources of the stage to good
advantage.
A fault (which, however, the
author shares with many, if not
most, established dramatists) is
that it is filled out to the con-
ventional three acts when two
would have sufficed. And a
handicap, hardly to be faulted
on this account, is that the wider
theatre-going public, while not
impervious to touches of
brutality, squalor and low-life
behind the footlights, has little
general interest in the all-male
background of third-rate pugil-
ism. Which is only to say that,
if lack of support precludes a
West End transfer, it will be
genuine bad luck for Mr. Peter-
son.
The play is, in the true sense,
revolting. There is a good deal
of blood as well as of bruises.
His types are not to be found
in middle-class homes nor even
in the dressing-rooms of amateur
boxing. And, unseen, the rau-
cous audience heightens the
squalor, crookedness and sheer
pointlessness of the “game,” a
beastly travesty of sport.
There is pathos in the clean,
eager novice whose first fight as
a pro. brings him against a
hardened crook, but he at least
will, from choice, never fight
again. The trickster, double-
crossed by his opponent, lets
down his backers by winning,
and is cornered by a gang of
razor-slashers. A pitiful welter-
weight, making a comeback, is
“punched” into foul-mouthed
hysteria. And a former title-
holder, overburdened with
domestic infelicity and advanced
age (he is 35), provides the
tragedy. That there is nothing
far-fetched about his death,
from cerebral haemorrhage, is
evident from a real-life incident
that has occurred during the run
of the play.
The featherweight, an irrepres-
sible sparrow of a Cockney,
alone promises by his spirit
(and also by his shrewd deter-
mination to hold on to his money
and retire) a reasonable future.
All the noncombatant charac-
ters are equally well-drawn, par-
ticularly the shifty manager and
the attendants, whose cynical
resignation hides sympathy and
kindness.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONXY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METRO? OLE”
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 fines)
'** ■I ; W:
in mu i
■ft
11 i IP
m ««
I' SI , R
ii
TJ&aufwutiss
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
fsd
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney „
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
73
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ere
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
_ Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
fcept., Profit. 5 p.c. ten off. serves. serves.
1943.. 282,479 250,000 25.000 7,479 3,448,100
5i p.c.
1944.. 290,926 262,500 25,000 8,426 8,451,532
5f p.c.
1945.. 842,362 287,500 50,000 4,862 3,456,394
6 p.c.
1946.. 354,564 300,000 50,000 4,564 3,460,958
1947.. 421,952 351,781 65,000 5,171 3,466,129
Surplus absorption Q.N. Bank,
£893,991 .. „. .. 4,360,120
From inner reserves, £806,009 .. 5,166,129
Q.N. p. and 1. balance, £48,366.. 5,214,495
National and Subsidiary.
6J p.c.
1948.. 558,597 437,192 65,000 56,405 6,270,900
7 p.c.
1949.. 540,173 470,822 65,000 4,351 6,275,251
1950.. 594,634 470,822 100,000 23,812 5,299,063
1951.. 623,781 470,822 100,000 52,959 5,352,022
1952.. 653,666 470,822 100,000 82,844 6,434,866
The position of trade and industry
today is in sharp contrast with that
of a year or so ago. And the economic
prospect before us has moved the
National’s chairman, Mr. H. J>. Giddy,
to make a special plea for “restoration of
mcentives fundamental to a resurgence
of real confidence.” In particular he
stresses the need for reduction of taxation
and rational public-works expenditure.
Government now syphons off about
32 p.c. of the national income in taxation
as against 18 p.c. in 1938-39. The more
taxation rises the greater the danger of a
drift into Socialism becomes, because
excessive taxation takes away the incen-
tive to work harder and save more, and
therefore impinges upon the volume of
private investment. The rate on additions
to an income is so much greater than the
rate on the whole amount that extra effort
is penalised and increased production is
deterred, and a premium is placed on
every kind of tax-evasion —the ablest
legal and accountancy talent which money
can employ is being constantly pitted
against the wit of the taxgatherer. Hence
the chairman’s claim that real relief in
this sphere would give new zest to our
free-enterprise system in all its aspects.
The need for a more rational and
balanced outlook in connection with
public expenditure is now evident from
the fact that a number of projects started
during the boom years, when money was
plentiful and cheap, have had to be
reduced in tempo or temporarily aban-
doned. In real terms, this is a costly mis-
fortune, for which we will pay later on.
To get the altered trade and banking
structure into perspective, it needs to be
remembered that inflated wool incomes
and an inflow of funds from abroad were
feeding a level of investment beyond the
capacity of our available resources. Then
followed a reversal of the trade-balance
from abundant surplus to mounting
deficit, the latter resulting from both
higher payments for an increased volume
of imports and lower receipts, especially
for wool. By the time impoft restrictions
were imposed traders had accumulated
large stocks and a buyers’ market for
consumer goods had developed. The
impact upon the volume of money and
incomes was largely offset by central-bank
purchases of Government securities and
by release of private-bank deposits which
bad been frozen on “special account,” so
that the banks could come to the assist-
ance of traders and others who were
experiencing a period of acute financial
stringency.
Over the 12 months to Sept. 30 last, the
National —one of the big three among the
private trading banks —increased its
advances by £13,307,361 while its deposits
shrank by £19,540,276: —
National and Subsidiary.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £6,726,025 £6,726,025 £6,726,025
Notes .. .. 47,490 47,489 47,484
Deposits, etc. 183,442,839 217,886,024 198,345,748
Due other banks 19,660,894 26,534,739 445,646
Liquids .. 113,296,090 127,746,406 76,220,171
Advances . . 95,229,749 115,589,018 128,896,879
Other assets .. 3,942,977 10,201,527 2,644,099
Premises .. 2,942,906 3,244.758 3,474,531
There was also a contraction of
£26,089,093 in balances due to other
banks. To meet the heavy calls upon it
the co. drew on liquids for £51,526,235
and reduced “other assets” by £7,557,428.
The reduction in the amount frozen on
“special account” (£34,837,000 at
balancing-date) was £60,650,000, and in
Government bonds, etc. (£5,922,832)
£885,278. When the books closed the
co. was holding £7,000,000 (nil at previous
balance) of Treasury bills, an indication
of Government deficit - financing.
Advances amounted to 64.9 p.c. of
deposits, and liquids to 38.3 p.c. of
liabilities to the public. It is a strong
position. Still, the overall limiting factor
of liquidity will now slow-down the rate
of growth in advances.
There was marked improvement in
gross earnings; but the mounting load
of operating costs swallowed most of the
gain. After setting aside what looks like
a generous £903,966 (up £209,960) for
taxation and making an unspecified pro-
vision for contingencies, the cautious
board wrote net earnings £29,885 stronger
at £653,666 —best showing in the last 22
years. It was equal to only 5.3 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds, or 9.7 p.c. on capital
alone. The div. was kept at 7 p.c.
Prospects of a bit better later on are
encouraging.
At 29s. (35s. a year ago) the f.-p. £1
shares give an immediate return of
4.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis the 12s. 6d.-paid contribs.
yield 4.9 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 36s. 2d. per £ of paid capital.
The trading and banking positions now
show signs of becoming more settled,
though at a lower level than a year ago.
The lift in the bank overdraft rate from
4\ p.c, to 5 p.c. as from August 1 last,
relaxation of other central-bank controls
and satisfactory level of export
income also augur well for bank earn-
ings. Darkest spot in the picture is still
the wage-cost structure. And the Govern-
ment’s proposed banking-reform legisla-
tion promises to further strengthen the
position of the private trading banks by
eliminating unfair competition from the
trading section of the Commonwealth
Bank, and by giving them a greater
measure of independence and domestic
freedom.
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Ee- Re-
Sept.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1943. .789,041 12 p.c. = 741,919 47,122 1,629,121
1944. .839,623 13 „ ,, 803,745 35,878 1,664,999
1945. 13 „ „ 803,745 54,277 1.719,276
1946. .862,956 13 „ „ 803,745 1 19 211 1,768,487
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. ) ’
1947. .884,516 13i p.c. = 834,659 1 393571808,344
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. t ’
Oonting’cies res. disclosed, £1,861,192 3,669,536
Unexplained addition, £358,770 .. 4,028,306
1948. .916,292 p.c. = 896,485 \ 9.807 4,038,113
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. )
1949. 15 p.c. = 927,399 1 5,761 4,043,874
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. f
1950..958,808 15 p.c. = 927,399 1 21,409 4.065,283
Employees’ fund, £10,000..)
1951. .949.246 15 p.c. = 927,399 1 11,347 4,077,130
To employees’ fund, £10,000 )
1952. .952,775 15 p.c. = 927,399 I 15,278 4,092,508
To employees’ fund, £10,000 )
For a long time expanding turnover
(beer consumption) had more than
taken care of the buoyancy of the cost
of production and distribution in the
brewing trade, where selling-prices are
fixed by official edict. Now that the
growth in turnover has slackened costs
have won the race. Hence the two small
increases in selling-price granted to N. S.
Wales "brewers, one at the beginning and
the other at the end of 1951. But they
were not enough, and a further lift of
3d., making the wholesale price of bulk
beer 9s. per gallon, was granted as
from Nov. 1, 1952, too late to affect
Tooths’ last accounts, of course.
Of the 2028 hotels in N. S. Wales a
year or so ago. Tooths owned 35 p.c.,
made up as follows:
Met- New-
Tooths — ropolitan. castle. Country. Total.
Freeholds .. 332 110 186 628.
Leaseholds ~ 54 5 26 85
Total .. 386 115 212 713
For the most part they are operated on
the “tied-house” system, which is the
form competition takes, there being no
price-cutting in the trade. Rentals and
bonuses vary according to takings and
the length of the lease, and they make a
valuable contribution to net earnings.
The Australian output of beer increased
by 6.3 p.c. for the year to June 30 last as
against an increase of 10.9 p.c. for the
preceding year. Over the same tw)o
periods the basic wage in Sydney rose by
23.9 p.c. and 30.4 p.c. respectively, and
has been pushed up since by a further
14s. to £ll 17s. per week. At the same
time prices for sugar, hops, barley, malt
and other brewing ingredients streng-
thened, and so has the cost* of bottles,
transport and other overhead.
After allowing £204,321 (up £19,592)
for depreciation and an unspecified
amount for bad and doubtful debts and
other contingencies, the spring in the
year’s gross profit was £377,267, or
11 p.c.:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept., Earnings.* etc.f Gross. , Profit.
1948.. £2,997,865 £2,081,573 69.4 £916,292
1949.. 3,038,282 2,095,122 68.9 943,160
1950.. 8,112,224 2,153,416 69.2 958,808
1951.. 8,594,163 2,644,916 73.3 949,246
1952.. 8,971,480 3,018,655 76.0 952,775
* After providing for contingencies, f Includes excise
and provision for taxation.
Exes, increased £373,739, or 14.1 p.c.,
thus taking all but £3529 of the gain—they
include something for taxation as well as
excise, which goes to the Treasury, not the
brewer, and was lifted by 2s. 7d., making
it 7s. 2d. a gallon at the beginning of the
term. The £952,775 of profit claimed was
15.4 p.c, on capital as against 15.3, 15.5,
15.2, 14.8 and 14.3 p.c. back to 1947. The
dividend has advanced by halting steps
from 12 p.c. in 1943 to 15 p.c. in 1949,
and has remained steady since, making
average distribution over the last 50 years
10.7 p.c. The co. has never failed to
make a distribution since it took over
from the Tooths in 1888, and £2,150,097
of the £6,182,657 of paid capital is bonus-
scrip.
To step-up the output of bottled beer —
distribution of which was one of the
features of evidence before the recent
royal commission on the liquor trade —
new bottling-plant is being installed, and
part of it is now in operation. Several
new hotels are being erected, and
improvements made to others. The year’s
net addition to fixed assets was £99,001,
and to book-debts £340,934. The growth
in stocks was £176,283:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £6,182,657 £6,182,657 £6,182,657
Creditors .. .. 3,730,429 4,363,258 4,491,057
Employees’ fund.. 73,350 83,259 92,517
Workers’ compen’n 25,000 25,000 25,000
Final div. .. 463,699 463,699 463,699
Freeholds and plant 7,583,802 7,567,651 7,666,652
Stocks .. .. 648,894 1,070,437 1,246,720
Debtors .. .. 1,036,931 1,337,616 1,678,550
Oonsols, cash, etc. 5,255,791 5,204,300 4,740,517
To meet the year’s outlay only £127,799
was added to the outside debt, the big
wad of cash, etc., being drawn upon for
£463,783. It seems unlikely that share-
holders will be asked to assist in the big
programme of modernisation and
development, for the present, at any rate.
Trade has held well since the close of
accounts, and the lifts in the selling-price
of bulk beer and in over-the-counter
retail-prices will help takings on both the
brewing and hotel sides of the business.
Actual net results will depend largely
upon what happens in connection with
wage-rates and other costs. The Treasury
now takes 78.5 p.c. of the brewer’s gross
return from bulk beer, leaving only
21.5 p.c. to meet the cost of production,
and distribution, and to pay co. income
tax and dividends to shareholders. Other
benefits to those on the register appear
to have been pushed into the background
by economic trends.
At 63s. 9d. (85s. 9d. early in 1952) the
f.-p. £1 shares give an immediate return
of 4.7 p.c, on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is visibly 33s. 3d.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 12.170 10 p.c. = 11.000 1170 75,088
1945.. 18,332 10 „ „ 11,000 1 F n 9 75770
To staff fund, £1650 .. j 682 ’
1946.. 10,541 8 p.c. = 8,800 ) 741 76 511
To staff fund, £1000 . . J ’
1947.. 10,715 8 p.c. = 8,800 1915 78,426
1948.. 10,832 8 „ „ 8,800 2032 80,458
To renovations, etc., £1000 . . 79,458
1949.. 11,769 8 p.c. = 8,800 2969 82,427
To renovations, etc., £3000 .. 79.427
1950.. 12,035 8 p.c. = 8,800 3235 82,662
To staff fund, £2000 •• •• 80,662
To renovations, etc., £1000 .. 79,662
1951.. 6,534 6 p.c. = 6,600 — 79,596
From inner reserves, £3159 .. 82,755
1952.. 5,240 5 p.c. = 5,500 — 82,495
The collapse of net earnings since 1950
was due to the increasing pressure of
costs against a ceiling of fixed corpus
and other commission charges, which,
excepting a few minor adjustments, had
remained unaltered for over half a cen-
tury. Pre-war the gains from expanding
turnover more than took care of the
growth in costs. Then the picture gradu-
ally changed until it became the other
way about, inflation and Government
procrastination being the villains of the
piece.
For the five years to 1940 the Per-
manent’s net earnings averaged £12,123,
for the next five years the figure was
£11,489, for the five years to 1950 it was
£11,187, and for the two years since
£5887. Meanwhile the volume of busi-
ness increased by over 57 p.c., and the
div. came down from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c. in
1946, to 6 p.c. in 1951 and to 5 p.c. last
term. During the last two years the co.
has rendered essential, efficient and exten-
sive service to its clients below cost —a
state of affairs which could not continue
indefinitely without extinction of the busi-
ness. The position changed in April last,
of which more will be said presently.
Last term the volume of new business
entrusted to the co.’s expert care exceeded
the value of estates wound up by
£1,138,406: —
Exes. p.e.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings,
1920.. £6,349,568 £24,948 £15,689 62.9 p.c.
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1940.. 22,534,608 75,014 62,602 83.4 „
1948.. 27,638,812 99,210 88,378 89.0 „
1949.. 28,042,893 107,173 95,404 89.0 „
1950.. 28.587,330 119,225 107,190 89.9 „
1951.. 29,696,952 129,348 122,814 94.9 „
1952.. 30,835,358 146,945 141,705 96.4 .,
Income from all sources increased by
£17,597. But exes, (up £18,891) gobbled
the gain and £1294 besides, leaving the
net result (£5240) at a mere 2.7 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined), or 4.7 p.c. on capital alone as
against 5.9, 10.9, 10.7, 9.8 and 9.7 p.c.
back to 1947. That leaves out of the
figuring £3159 taken from inner reserves
and put into the window. And because of
the change in outlook only a point was
chipped off the div., reducing it to 5 p.c.
In April last the N. S. Wales Trustee
Act was amended, providing for a new
scale of charges, which compare with the
old rates as follows: —
Old Scale. New Seale,
2i p.c. on first 50,000 Sf p.c. on first 25,000
„ on next 50,000 3 „ on next 25,000
1 „ on excess 100,000 2 ,, on next 50,000
1 ,, on excess 100,000
Income commission remains unaltered at
5 p.c. on the first £20,000 and p.c. on
the balance, except in the case of rents,
on which the rate is 5 p.c. throughout,
or 2i p.c. if collected through an agent.
Another amendment provides for special


Missing Friend
WOULD MRS. MARGARET PALMER,
formerly of Romahapa, South Otago, New
Zealand, or anyone knowing her where-
abouts, communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Dunedin, New Zea-
land ?
Divorce Notice
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHILLIP MARKWELL late of 4 Rod-
borough Avenue North Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that AMELIA VIRA MARK-
WELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4343 of 1952 on the grounds of de-
sertion by reason of non-compliance with
a decree for restitution of conjugal rights
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 9th
February 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
I). H. DWYER & 00., Solicitors, 74 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Public Notice
I. NORA MARIE MALONE, of Stateless
nationality, born at New York City, New
York, U.S.A., resident 80 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 23 Beach Road,
Darling Point, N. S. Wales, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. .... 22/6
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818,
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: , . .
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. R (Vice-Chairman).
C. 0. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SMI 4
FONOE
f
EN^»7§4
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
NEED FOR CONFIDENCE
Stable Trading Conditions Essential
Mr. H. D. Giddy, Chairman of Directors of the National Bank of Australasia,
Limited, in his address to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in
Melbourne on Wednesday, said: —
“Real confidence in business and
on the part of the purchasing public
is born out of stable trading con-
ditions. I believe that much of the
loss of confidence at present is re-
lated to the fact that, with con-
ditions of more restrained trading,
expected price benefits have failed
to materialise, with the result that
neither the business man nor the
public know quite what to expect.
If they hold expenditures back long
enough will cost and price benefits
emerge, or is any such expectation
merely a false hope? The same kind
of psychology is affecting money
markets. In other ways. Government
encroachment and controls have,
over the years, weakened the indi-
vidual’s confidence in his own ability
to conduct satisfactorily his chosen
business or professional activity.”
THE VITAL ROLE OF
INCENTIVES
Mr. Giddy also said that a boom, or a
deep depression, distorts if it does not
destroy, a number of the normal in-
centives, and the disciplines, indispensable
to economic stability in a free society.
Government control, restriction, regulation
and encroachment also do exactly the
same thing.
In a democratic society the incentives
to enable the full force of economic action
to take effect are provided through the
free price system, through freedom for
the individual to enjoy the rewards of his
effort, and through the sense of personal
and business achievement. The Socialist
planner, and of course the communist,
would destroy all this in the interests of
power, often personal power at that.
Restoration of incentives is funda-
mental to a resurgence of real confidence.
Let us adopt incentive differentials in
employee remuneration wherever they
would assist greater efficiency and, there-
fore, lower prices to the consumer. But,
freedom to retain in large measure the
rewards for individual economic effort
is just as vital as freedom to make that
effort.
Nothing is more damaging than the
wearisome repetition that it is imprac-
ticable to reduce, to any material extent,
the load of taxation which the Australian
people have been forced to carry. It is
alarming to realise that the total amount
of taxation levied last financial year was
well over 1,000 millions, nearly 32%
of the National Income. In the last pre-
war year 1938-39 it was only £142
millions, equal to around 18% of the
National Income. Granted that one cannot
expect taxation to return to pre-war stan-
dards, there surely is room for a sub-
stantial alleviation of this burden. Real
relief here would give new zest to our
free enterprise system in all its aspects.
RESOURCES OF THE PUBLIC
SECTOR STRAINED
After outlining current financial con-
ditions, the chairman went on to say that
one current result of the absorption of
the nation’s surplus monetary supplies is
the emergence of near-crisis conditions in
important sectors of public finance. Gov-
ernment loan programmes, embracing
those of the Commonwealth and State
Governments, Semi-Government Authori-
ties and even local governing bodies are
all deeply/involved, and the extraordinary
optimism as to loan-raising possibilities
incited by years of monetary inflation
when there was no check on prodigal
spending has received a heavy shock.
A stoppage in the inflationary rise in
the volume of money and, in consequence,
the dissipation of inflationary expectations
have been the main factors responsible
for the recession in prices of public securi-
ties and shares. As a result, there has
been a rise in yields and interest rates.
For example, average market yields on
Commonwealth Bonds and Semi-Govern-
ment loans stood at around £4/11/- per
cent, per annum and £ 5 per cent,
per annum respectively last month
as compared with around £B/15/- per
cent, per annum and £4/5/- per cent,
per annum a year ago. But borrowing
demands are still too great in relation
to the volume of surplus funds available
for Investment in new loans, with the re-
sult that financial difficulties confront a
number of public authorities.
Too many large projects Were started
in the years of plentiful money, and a
number have had to be reduced in tempo
for the time being, or temporarily aban-
doned. ■ Once commenced, the slowing up
or suspension of public works and de-
velopment projects is, in real terms, a
costly misfortune.
ALLEVIATION FROM THE
GOVERNMENT SIDE?
However, looking to the immediate
future, it is to the side of Government
finance that we must look, I feel, for
influences which should bring about some
easing in present credit conditions.
Altering its monetary policy with com-
mendable speed, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment proposes to arrange “special sub-
scriptions” to the Loan Council’s tenta-
tive borrowing programme for 1952-53 to
the tune of, perhaps, £135 millions, the
figure given as the maximum by the
Federal Treasurer in his Statement No. 5
on Loan Transactions in 1952-53 referred
to in his Budget Speech. This assistance
can only mean, I think, a calculated and
deliberate internal expansion of Central
Bank credit by short-term Treasury Bill
finance.
In circumstances of' rigid import restric-
tions, the result might well be to increase
bank deposits somewhat and to improve
the liquidity of the trading bank system.
It is true that Commonwealth Bank
directives on advance policy under exist-
ing legislation touch only cases where a
possible advance may clash with Com-
monwealth Capital Issues Control, but —
do not Ist us forget this fact—quantitative
control of trading bank lending is still
exercised by the Commonwealth Bank.
Shareholders, and our many loyal cus-
tomers, can be assured that the National
Bank will afford assistance for worth-
while economic activity to the full extent
permitted by its funds position.
CAN CHANGES IN BUSINESS
ACTIVITY BE MEASURED?
Mr. Giddy said that recent changes in
the economy had prompted the question
as to whether they could be depicted in
some way. In an endeavour to progress
toward this end the Bank had compiled
an index designed to record changes in
the level of Australian business activity,
and the results were offered for com-
parison with other commonly accepted in-
dicators of trade conditions. The average
level of business activity in the three pre-
war financial years 1936-37, 1937-38 and
1938-39 had been taken as the base, equal
to 100. The peak of the index was
reached in the June quarter 1951 when it
averaged 181.4, but after September last
year it seemed clear that some real
change in the level of general business
activity was in progress. Preliminary
estimates only of the number for the Sep-
tember quarter of this year suggested
that it might be in the region of 140—
this would be a decline of about 14 per
cent, over the twelve months from Sep-
tember quarter of last year. But a year
ago there was over-full employment with
severe shortages everywhere, orders banked
up and much overtime. The major part
of any decline up to the present, there-
fore, merely indicated a descent to nearer
normal trading conditions. Further, pre-
liminary estimates for the month of Sep-
tember this year showed a welcome up-
turn, which may prove to be significant.
MEETING THE CHALLENGE
We are not without weapons for a
campaign against the waste and ineffi-
ciency of either depression or inflationary
boom. Within strict limits, internal
credit can be expended in time of idle
resources; taxation can be reduced to
bolster public buying power,, we are able
to regulate our imports to meet a sudden
reduction in overseas monetary reserves;
we know far more than in years gone by
about the effects of changes in investment
expenditures, whether private or public.
We are unable to influence overseas prices
paid for cur exports but we ought to be
able to frame policies to increase export
production, and to keep its cost at com-
petitive levels.
The wise application of such imple-
ments, and an intelligently confident atti-
tude on the part of business and the
general public should ensure reasonable
stability in general business activity and
employment, without plunging into over-
full employment where individual and
corporate responsibility is too often
weakened, leading to excesses in all direc-
tions.
But in a community which places a very
high value on its freedom, success will
not be achieved unless its economic im-
plements fit a business structure that is
basically free enterprise. Too often in
the past their application, or their nature,
has been such as to bend and at times
nearly break that structure. Full appre-
ciation of this fact by Governments, and
other controlling authorities, will give
the nation renewed confidence that it can
surmount current difficulties, and will
enable the individual to regain initiative
and strength of purpose in our eco-
nomic life.
BALANCE SHEET
Referring to the Balance Sheet and
Profit and Loss Account the Chairman
said that borrowings from the Central
Bank had been reduced by approximately
£26,000,000, whilst customers’ deposits
decreased by £17,353,532, a moderate
fall in view of general banking experience
over the last twelve months. Advances
showed a reasonable rise of £13,422,914,
whilst gross earnings were lifted to
£1,009,159 to a new record of
£6,340,242 but were almost entirely
absorbed by higher expenses and increased
taxation provisions. Net profit showed a
small increase to £616^965.
charges, to be approved by an
Equity Court judge, in respect
of any business carried on in
connection with an estate
administered by a trustee co. A
formula for a sliding scale of
charges based on officially ascer-
tained costs would have been
more equitable.
Since the new rates apply only
to new business, the recovery in
net earnings will be gradual,
subject, of course, to what hap-
pens in connection with costs.
At Sept. 30 the co.’s own funds,
together with £24,732 coming to
sundry creditors, etc., were repre-
sented by freeholds, etc., £55,178,
Government securities £42,479,
shares and mortgages £96,493,
cash £21,367 and shares in the
Canberra subsidiary £5009.
The market doesn’t expect the
trustee section to turn in much
profit, for a while at any rate.
At 13s. (15s. a year ago) the £5
shares paid to 11s. each —755.
of the remaining 89s. is callable
only if needed in the event of
liquidation—give an immediate
return of 4.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.9 p.c. should the div.
rise to 7 p.c., which is equal to
only 4 p.c. on shareholders’
funds. Net tangible cover is
19s. 3d. per share.
Allan & Stark (Brisbane)
r- 1 Dividends
Pref. Re-
July,Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
’45. .41,490 2500 5 p.c. = 12,223 84,614
To staff bonus, £2500 . . 82,114
’46.. 58,179 2500 84 p.c. = 20,778 117,015
To staff bonus, £2500 . . 114,515
’47.. 69,419 2500 8* p.c. = 20,778 160,656
To staff bonus, £l5OO . . 159,156
’48.. 84,293 2500 84 p.c. = 20,778 220,171
To staff bonus, £3500 . . 216,671
•49..80,555 2500 8i p.c. = 20,778 273,948
To staff bonus, £3500 . . 270,448
’5O. . 72,428 2500 8i p.c. = 21,445 318,931
To staff bonus, £5OOO. . . 313,931
Res. disclosed, £45,000 . . 358,931
Revaluation assets, £35,000. . 393,931
Res. capitalised, £35,000.. 358,931
6 p.c.
’51.. 79,587 3000 8i p.c. = 28,250 407,268
To staff bonus, £14,000 .. 393,268
Realisation assets, £31,444.. 424,712
’52. .58,399 3000 6 p.c. = 21,000 459,111
* Profits to 1947 shown after deducting
bonus paid to staff.
An encouraging performance
all things considered. Certainly
there was a sharp contraction of
£21,188 (26.6 p.c.) in net earn-
ings. Still, the £58,399 of profit
claimed was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show a satisfac-
tory 15.8 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 23, 29, 31.9 and 33.4
p.c. back to 1947. Yet the
p.c. bonus handed to share-
holders during the six preceding
years was withheld, leaving the
div. at 6 p.c. The board de-
cided to conserve the co.’s
liquid resources to meet current
trade and other commitments
rather than lift the overdraft to
near its permissible limit under
the credit restrictions then in
force. For the same reasons no
bonus was paid to the staff —
£14,000 was so distributed in
the previous year.
It is all in line with the
cautious financial and keen mer-
chandising policy pursued by
the management for some years
past —brightening of the store,
improvement o f shopping
facilities and adoption of a
moderate dividend policy and
accumulation of reserves. The
increase of £119,918 in turnover
occurred during the first half of
the term. Buyer-resistance de-
veloped, sales eased and the
trade generally began to cut
prices during the second half.
The co. “didn’t join in the fray,
but maintained a steady mark-
up as long as possible,” the
chairman says;
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ &
Turnover .. 1,615,511 2,043,129 2,163,047
Gross profit 402,474 527,473 548,449
Exes. . . 330,046 447,885 490,050
Net profit.. 72,428 79,588 58,399
The ratio of gross profits to
turnover (25.3 p.c. as against
25.8 p.c. in 1951) supports his
claim, which also suggests good
buying in the first place. Recur-
rent wage-lifts, which affect
practically every .item in the
cost of doing business, were the
seat of the trouble. Exes., which
include provision for deprecia-
tion (£18,973, up £6319) and
taxation (£34,000, down £46,000),
made off with an extra £42,165.
“I’ll wager that within three
months of the day of stoppage
of any further increases [in
wages] prices will come down,”
says chairman C. W. J. Isles.
A reduction of £101,998 in
stocks and of £9514 in book-
debts enabled £83,281 to be
clipped off the overdraft and the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors was reduced by £72,688:
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Paid capital . . 319,295 400,000 400,000
Overdraft . . 258 164,087 80,806
Tax reserve, etc. 67,773 107,956 71,574
Sundry creditors 129,031 193,107 120,419
Staff bonus . . 5,258 14,256
Final div., etc. 22,695 30,001 ' 22,500
Premises & plant 304,271 490,906 394,474
Shares other cos. 34,293 34,293 94,311
Stock .. .. 411,047 634,159 532,161
Book debts .. 117,928 137,712 128,198
Cash, etc. .. 35,695 5,604 5,268
The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£370,328)
was £102,260. The movements
in premises and plant (down
£96,432) and shareholdings (up
£60,018) are partly interrelated,
reflecting transfer of the re-
cently-purchased Watson Fergu-
son building to a new subsidiary,
Allan and Stark Properties, Ltd,
Other freeholds are to be trans-
ferred to this offshoot later.
Shareholders’ prospects arc
encouraging. Reserves are
heaped £59,111 higher than paid
capital, stocks are reported clean,
well-bought and soundly priced
in the books, and conditions in
the trade are becoming settled.
The f.-p. £1 ords. at 21s. (265. a
year ago) give an immediate re-
turn of 5.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. The 6 p.c. prefs. are priced
at par. Net tangible cover is
£l7 3s. Bd. prefs. and 465. 6d.
ords.
Harrietville (Tronoh), Ltd.
Year Treated, Gold,
to ’OOO. Fine Revenue. Profit.
June. C.y. Oz. £ £
1948.. 2285.6 7296.5 76.535 415
1949.. 1711.4 9856.6 106,960 13,298
Loss.
1950.. 2496.5 5926.4 83,791 14,044
1951.. 2544.0 3340.6 51,752 32,545
Profit.
1952.. 2265.0 7433.6 119,903 18,425
The outlook is better than the
figures in the table would sug-
gest. The dredge, biggest of its
kind in the southern hemisphere,
is treating auriferous alluvial
flats in the Ovens valley (Vic.).
It has now passed through prac-
tically all the barren tailings and
should have many years’ profit-
able work ahead, the chairman
says. It originally set in at the
wrong end of the property, and
barren tailings have had to be
redredged to get into the virgin
ground. Only 70,000 c.y. of old
tailings remained to be handled
at June 30 last. So, subject to
what happens in connection with
costs, the unit margin of profit on
total turnover should steadily
improve, and, after a long wait,
shareholders’ prospects of getting
into the picture have accordingly
brightened.
Of the yardage handled last
term, only 27 p.c. was over-
burden as against 54.9 p.c. in
the previous year. Also the
average value of virgin ground
increased from 10.75 d. to 17.45 d.
per c.y., and of total ground
dredged from 4.88 d. to 12.70 d.
per c.y. So, despite a rise of
2.76 d. to 10.42 d. per c.y. in
operating costs, including de-
preciation, the co. was able to
show a profit of £18,425, equal
to 4.9 p.c. on the £375,000 of
paid capital. That reduced the
p. and 1. debit to £45,600.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £77,395. There
was £12,883 coming to sundry
creditors, and loans figure at
£267,soo—they are advances
from the co.’s London associate
on which no interest has been
charged to date.
Golden Plateau, N.L. (paid
capital £113,700 in 3s. 4d.
shares), operating at Cracow
(Q.), netted £64,911 and paid 6d.
a share for the year to June 30
last. For the previous year a
loss of £6OOB showed up and no
div, was paid. Last term’s
better showing was due to
marked improvement in the
grade of millfeed, which aver-
aged 9.osdwt. as against 4.2Bdwt.
for the previous term. Inclusion
of some better-than-average-
mine-ore from Nos. 4 and 5
levels was mainly responsible
for the lift in grade. The 6500-
ton-a-month plant treated
20,486 tons (down 2408 tons)
ore for 92740 z, (up 49450 z.) fine
gold and 11,0130 z. (up 65580 z.)
silver. Costs were 18s. lOd.
heavier at 83s. 6d, per ton. No
diamond-drilling was done dur-
ing the year. Ore reserves are
put at 64,200 tons averaging
6.sdwt. When the books closed
current assets totalled £91,991,
and there was only £5873 coming
to outsiders. The market prices
the scrip at 7s. 6d. as against
7s. lOd. a year ago.
♦ * * *
Humes, Ltd. (B. 12/11/’52)
second table, profit figures in the
last two columns, 1951 and 1952,
should be transposed.


Women’s Letters
STD NICY
The “Sadie Hawkins party” organised
by the younger set of the English-speak-
ing Union was very good fun. Held at
the bushland park, Fairyland, near
Fuller’s Bridge, it featured dancing in a
real old-style barn, a sHppery-dip into a
haystack, a race when the girls chase the
boys (won with great fleetness and grace
by Barbara Williams), a first-class bar-
becue, kick-a-poo joyjuice (a concoction
by “Hareless Joe,” who was impersonated
by Fred Kinney), popcorn, a moon and
a general air of gaiety. Eva Herz was
dressed in gipsy skirt and blouse with
straws in her hair. Sister Lilian in shirt
and jeans patched with daisies, Rona
Philip Bates supervised the barbecue,
which was as decorative as it was effi-
cient.
The boys of the committee seemed to
be doing their fair share of the work —
Fred Kinney, Don Braham (as Marryin’
Sam), Lionel Braham (as Indian, “he
don’t talk”), Freddie Storch and Colin
Webster (as Mayor Hawkins, complete
with shotgun). Dinah Cullen was there,
and Margaret Tarrent, Gordon Stewart,
Bill Salthouse and Bert Hunt (back from
South Africa). Only thing missing, it
seemed, was some of that shoofly-pie
and apple-pandowdy we hear about, but
otherwise it was an A 1 party.
* ☆ *
Cinderella’s ball-dress in Heather Cell's
“Cinderella Was a Princess” was some-
thing for a little girl to remember for
many days. The skirt was made of
organza foxgloves shaded from pink to
mauve, with hearts of glistening silver
sequins. They were sewn on a skirt of
green taffeta and covered at the back by
pink moire. The strapless bodice gleamed
with silver sparkles. The headdress was
tiny foxgloves, again with silver. All the
costumes in this production were most
imaginative. One won’t ever forget the
baby brownies with the tousled red
wigs. The children in • the audience
seemed to love the play, although the
little boy next this Letter only came to
life fully when the Ugly Sisters came to
blows. A tough baby, no doubt.
* ☆ ☆
Some people doubt the wisdom of
taking children to see the expensive toys
on display at this time-—so often the
things they want are quite beyond their
parents’ reach. One salesgirl said it broke
her heart to see the way some children
wept when they couldn’t have any of the
toys. But you never can tell. Gazing
into a window full' of wondrous dolls
during the week were a six-year-old girl,
her mother and grandmother. Grandma
asked wouldn’t she like that beautiful
bride-doll (2ft. high, £29 10s.). Yes, she’d
like that. Mother hastily directed her
attention to a baby doll (£3 10s.).
Mummy could dress it up and it would
look just as good as the others.” Yes,
she d like that. “But see that one right
in there?” she said. “That’s the one I’d
really like.” It was 14s. lid.
& ☆ ☆
. The Lord Mayor’s grandchildren call
him “Pippy,” the Lady Mayoress told
Press-girls at a party in her rooms during
the week. She added that the Governor,
Sir John Northcott, once told her he
thought “Pippy” quite a nice name for
a grandfather. “My grandchildren,” he
added, “call me ‘Popeye’!”
☆ ☆ ☆
Prince’s Restaurant took on quite an
exotic air on Thursday night when mem-
bers of the Australian-Pakistan Associa-
tion held their Christmas dance there.
Many of the women wore lovely saris,
and there were quite a number of men
wearing Pakistanian dress white
trousers, long black coat and the grey
lamb “Jinnah” cap. The president of
the association, Mr. Justice de Baun, with
Mrs. de Baun, received the official guests,
who included the High Commissioner,
Mr. Yusef Haroon, and the Begum
Haroon (who will both leave for Paki-
stan shortly). Lady Braddon, whose blue-
velvet dress was embroidered with beaten
silver in quite a fabulous way, the Con-
sul-General for Denmark, Mr. E. Trolle
Hansen, and Mrs. Hansen, the Consul-
General for Nicaragua, Mr. Cliff Paray,
and Mrs. Paray, and Mr. Gordon
Wallace.
'# * ☆
Of interest in three States is the
marriage in Adelaide on Saturday of
Nola Malcolm, daughter of Captain and
Malcolm, of Largs Bay
to Lieutenant John Bennett,
R-^ N -, elder son of Colonel and Mrs.
Rex Bennett, of Collaroy (N.S.W.). John
trained at Flinders Naval College, Vic-
toria, but the young couple intend making
their home in Sydney.
* ☆ ☆
Marjorie Conley, Sydney’s lovely 21-
year-old soprano who won the vocal sec-
tion of the A.B.C.’s 1952 Vocal and
Concerto Competition, begins her inter-
state tour this week. The tour, which
forms part of her prize, will take her to
Adelaide, Melbourne, Hobart and Bris-
bane, and will not conclude till January
11. As well as studio appearances, Mar-
jorie will be soloist with the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra at a free open-air
orchestral concert in Melbourne. Photo
by George Glover.
☆ ☆ ☆
The fresh young voices of students an
graduates of the Kindergarten Trainin
College led the carol-singing at th
National Council of Women’s last meet
ing for the year, Helen Adams was th
accompanist, and singers included Mar
garet Linton, Christine Macnicol, Jennife
Mannigel, Anne Lempe, Esther Greig
Margaret Cape, Joan Davis and Ilm
Regan. The meeting was purely soda
very happy and indeed quite hilarious
Everyone laughed, at any rate, when th
president, Mrs. J. Metcalf, explained tha
they couldn’t have any supper, as th
kitchen had been engaged by som
people called the “Non-sporting Dogs
Association” —a title open to misrepre
sentation. The National Council o
Women will go into recess now unti
February, when a heavy programme oi
serious import will be undertaken.
☆ ☆ ☆
Margaret Patricia is the name of the
E. F. Mewtons’ baby daughter, who was
christened at the Shore Chapel on Sun-
day. After the christening her parents
entertained relatives and a few friends at
a party at their Mosman home.
* V V
The Korean auxiliary of the Roya!
Australian Regiment met at a party at
the Barracks on Friday, when next-of-
kin and interested friends heard a short
talk from Colonel I. Hutchison on con-
ditions in Korea. He said that, although
rations were good, cake, sugar and cigar-
ettes were always welcome. The Aus-
tralian slouch hat, he said, was No. 1
souvenir among the Americans, and was
much envied by them for the protection
it gave, against sun and rain. General
F. H. Berryman and Mrs. Berryman were
present at the function, also president
Mrs. I. R. Campbell and vice-presidents
Mrs. J. McCaffrey, Mrs. I. Hutchison and
Mrs. I. B. Ferguson. The children were
looked after in a special baby-minding
centre, and the band played during after-
noon-tea, two things which greatly added
to “a good time being had by all.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co, thought
of 'a nice way to mark the centenary of
their firm in Australia when they handed
over four cottages to the Fairbridge Farm
Schools on Saturday, The Fairbridge
Farm Schools of N.S.W. are a branch
of the Fairbridge Society, founded at the
University~bf Oxford in 1909 by Kingsley
Fairbridge,
» ☆ ☆
The Torchbearers for Legacy put on a
wonderful show at their Trocadero fete
for three days during last week. There
were stalls of every description, displays
of handwork from many countries, floor-
shows and dancing at night. The com-
missariat provided meals consisting of
things' like French steak done in wine and
mushroom sauce, strawberry ice-cream
and coffee for 55., and on Thanksgiving
Day turkey and cranberry sauce for the
same sum. Approximately 10,000
attended the fete, and it is thought that
about £7OOO will be raised.
MELBOURNE
The general dining-room of the Union
House was the setting for the Christmas
At-Home given for 200 guests by the
Chancellor of the University, Sir Charles
Lowe, and Lady Lowe. Pink carnations,
gladioli and blue iris decorated the tables.
Lady Lowe wore a frock of mist-blue
crepe romaine with a deep collar of white
grosgrain and with white grosgrain out-
lining the hip-pockets. Her white chip-
straw hat was caught up at one side with
a feather-quill. Host and hostess were
assisted by their daughter, Mrs. W. Wark,
and son Dr. T. E. Lowe. Mrs. Wark’s
chartreuse, crepe frock was worn with a
black velvet hat trimmed with one large
Chartreuse rose. Among the guests were
Viscount and Viscountess Bruce, the latter
wearing a full-skirted frock of black
faille with a small black velvet hat, Vice-
Admiral Sir John Collins and Lady
Collins, and Lieut-General S. F. Rowell
and Mrs. Rowell.
Lady Eager added a wide black hat to
her muted floral silk frock ; Mrs. Henry
Stebbins, wife of the U.S. Consul-
General, wore a pretty pastel-pink shan-
tung frock which had a tiered skirt, and
a small matching hat of straw. The Vice-
Chancellor, Professor G. W. Paton, was
accompanied by Mrs, Paton, and Prof.
Boyce Gibson by his wife. Mrs. Ian
Potter’s black frock was worn with a
sea-blue velvet cap trimmed with match-
ing sequins.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mary Coles, who has been engaged in
journalism in this city since she arrived
some years ago from Adelaide, leaves on
Christmas Eve in the Orcades for London,
where she will tilt at the Fleet-street
windmills. Mary, who has a ready wit, <
is slim and dark-eyed; her hobby is the
strange one for a woman of gold-pros-
pecting. Athol Shmith photo.
With Mrs. Gordon Ross (Carol Berti), <
who is leaving journalism, Mary Coles *
shared the honors at a party given for *
them by Melbourne Presswomen at ' s
Mario’s. Chef Claudio Magres excelled
bimself, for the oysters were bought in ]
at the feet of a huge reindeer carved from t
a block of ice. He was responsible also j.
for another work of art: a large basket j.
of carved ice holding colorful blossoms;
the camellias were fashioned of finely-
sliced potato, tinted and frozen. Hibiscus
flowers were moulded from lard and
were realistically colored. Natural I
camellia foliage was the setting for these c
blooms. h
☆ ☆ ☆ C
£
The traditional Pilgrim Fathers’ turkey
and pumpkin-pie had pride of place at a
the Thanksgiving Day luncheon at the
Victoria Palace, given by the Australian-
American Association. In the absence
of the president. Sir John Latham, who c
was presiding over a similar luncheon in vs
Brisbane, Wesley Ince did the honors. K
The American tennis-players were there; ??
tiny Maureen Connolly, wearing a pale- ■*-
pink shantung jacket-suit, and tall, slim “
Julie Sampson, in tailored frock in grey-
blue shantung, were accompanied by
Mrs. Harry Hopman, Vic Seixas and his tl
wife. At the official table were U.S. ai
Consul-General Henry Stebbins and Mrs. L
Stebbins, she in a blue-and-wh
ensemble, Sir Charles and Lady Lo
Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins and
wife, Lieut.-Gen. S. F. Rowell and IV
Rowell and Air-Marshal Sir Dona
Hardman and Lady Hardman, the lai
in a pastel blue-and-white-patterned si
frock and a calot of white grosgrain.
The after-luncheon speech was giv
by Minister for Labdr and Immigrat
Harold Holt. Mrs. Holt was smart ir
greige shantung frock and white cloc.
Americans present included Mr. anc
Mrs. H. Bettle, the James Jacobses anc
the Walter Killoughs, and numberec
among Australians were Sir Leslie anc
Lady McConnan, Mrs. S. Baillieu-My
and her daughter Mrs. Ross Shelmerdi
the lan Potters, Mrs. Clive Steele, M
H. Darling, Mrs. Charles Burge and 1
mother, Mrs. I. C. Seelt-Lagawaard, w
is on a six months’ holiday from Hollanc
V V %■
In “The White Sheep of the Family
the play by L. Du Garde and the la
lan Hay presented at the Prince
the audience is introduced to a thorough
dishonest but engaging family. Father ;
an artist at “cracking cribs,” mother
a shoplifting specialist, son is a forger
considerable talent and daughter is
adept at lifting jewels from unsuspectin
women. But their fa9ade is one of respe
lability; father is a J.P. and a churc
warden. There is consternation in t
family when the son falls in love wit
the daughter of Scotland Yard’s assistan
commissioner, and from then on the fu
is kept at a high level, with Collins Hilto
as the vicar almost stealing the show.
In the first-night audience were notec
Mrs. Garnet Carroll, whose gown o:
hyacinth-blue satin had sequins and pear
embroidery outlining the deep neckline
Mrs. T. T. Hollway, her black fail
having a wide stripe in royal-blue tonings
Mrs. Ronald Nott, whose gown of whi
Chantilly lace had an allover pattern
sequins, with the bodice draped with rose
pink satin; her sister, Betty Smith, i
bouffant pink tulle frock over white tul
with gold sequins on bodice and skirt
Mrs. Philip Dare, who allied a skirt o:
grey-and-white lace-patterned organz
with bodice of black velvet; Mrs. Arthu
Haworth, the bodice of whose blac
crepe frock had a stole draping; Mrs
Harley Styles in dove-grey organza whici
had rosettes of lace ; Mrs. Ronald Decke
in black pleated chiffon and scarlet stole
and Rae Thomas, who wore an off-the
shoulder frock of white organza.
☆ ☆ ☆
Over 1000 people went to Mawallok
the Beaufort home of Mr. and Mrs. Alex
Russell, for a garden - party. The
Governor and Lady Brooks were guest
there for the weekend. There were gol
exhibitions by leading players, a manne
quin - parade and a march - past oi
Brownies, Girl Guides and Boy Scouts
The party, in fact, was to raise funds to
build a hall for the Guides and Scouts at
Beaufort. A band played on the lawn
and there were many well-stocked stalls
The mannequin-parade was organised by
Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn, of Derrinallum
who was one of the mannequins. Others
were Mrs. John Forster, Audrey Rat-
cliffe, Moray Fitzgerald, Desiree John-
ston and Mrs. Spence.
Lady Brooks wore a pervenche-blue
tailored frock and wide-brimmed black
straw hat. Mrs. Alex Russell chose a
grey crepe romaine frock contrasted with
a royal-blue silk straw hat. Jane Kirwan
Taylor’s frock was of cyclamen patterned
silk, Margaret Russell’s of grey-and-
white-patterned silk. Mrs. Constance
Day matched her American-beauty
tailored linen frock with a straw coolie-
hat. Mrs. Kenneth Kemble wore china-
blue-and-white-patterned silk.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mies Hoogendoorn, who came from
Holland recently to make her home in this
city, is a very talented milliner who studied
in Paris. Through her cousin, Mrs.
Charles Burge, with whom she lives at
Brighton, Mies became interested in the
Victorian Mission to Seamen, and to
assist its funds she makes hats, charging
only for the cost of materials.
Lady Brooks, wearing mist-blue-pleated
crepe frock and black straw picture-hat,
was at a parade in the Malvern Town
Hall when Mies and Rita L’Hardy showed
many attractive hats to aid the mission.
Lady Brooks was so attracted by the
display that Mies will take a selection to
Government House.
Mr?. Charles Burge was president of
the committee organising the parade, and
among committee-members present were
Lady Bruche, Lady Knox and Lady Hyde.


ExMma
TRADE MARA
brings rapid
relief to sufferers from
• RHEUMATISM
• SCIATICA and
• NEURITIS
Thousands of suf-
ferers of complaints
within the Rheuma-
tic Groups who had
given up hope of
ever getting relief,
are now living nor-
mal lives thanks
to Dolcin. Dolcin
gives prompt and
prolonged relief from
the painful symp-
toms of Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuritis, Lumbago, Fibrositis,
Gout, etc.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the
medical profession.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been
administered throughout the world.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your
chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
an
Stage and Music
“Power Without Glory”
Michael Clayton Hutton’s
“Power Without Glory,” put on
by Melbourne Little Theatre,
has no connection with the Mel-
bourne novel of the same name.
It is set in the living-room be-
hind an East End provision-
shop in London ; it is one of
those exasperating things Eng-
lish playwrights are so fond of
in which an interesting enough
situation is literally murdered,
A family constellation of
father, mother, sisters and
brothers, an old girl-friend and a
new girl-friend by whom she
has been supplanted—there is
something that could be worked
out, but at this point the writer’s
powers of observation, or his
psychological understanding, be-
come exhausted, so he brings in
a murder, and the interest is
shifted from emotional reac-
SEE MORE CLEARLY WITH
“SIRIUS”
“SIRIUS” Binoculars ar*
made especially for E.
ESDAILE & SONS by a lead-
ing continental maker, em-
bodying optical, scientific and
technical data arrived at after
65 years of experience. De-
sign and finish of “SIRIUS”
is faultless . . . light in
weight, centre screw focussing,
plus a strong, sturdy leather
case.
WE
#»
V
C
./&l
tt
•t'
Other makes:
Zeiss, Ross, Beck
Kassell, Lemaire
Roussell.
I MODEL AVAILABLE
8 x SO COAXED £26/8/9
sd
fum
AND SONS
PTY. Lip
mirm-ft stm>T, sYDNKy.
48 HUNTEB ST., SYDNEY. BW 9449, 8631.
MAii
°*£>En
Ac cep t
EO
Pie
I
a«e
add
lOf
r/e
tils
u^an
a «d
P0 9 f
a ffe
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Frank McNamara
Of all the Sydney artists who
have gone abroad in the last
three or four years and returned
with a show of paintings, Frank
McNamara, at the Grosvenor
Galleries, is the only one, if
memory serves correctly, to have
come back clearly strengthened.
His watercolors, with their
fine drawing, their clean color
and their strange high-pitched
luminosity, have always been of
exceptionally high quality ; but
for a period before he left for
England it was doubtful whether
any of his paintings had quite
the freshness and force of two
lovely early seapieces bought by
the N. S. Wales Gallery, and his
inky-blue skies and long glitter-
ing reaches of water were begin-
ning to look, though still strik-
ing watercolors, a little like the
repetition of a formula.
New scenes, new methods to
study and the renewed emo-
tional impetus of travel have all
combined to make his present
show so different from his last
that, except for the continued
sparkling precision of drawing
and an occasional reminiscence
of the old pattern’s of tone and
color, one would hardly recog-
nise it for the work of the same
artist. But it is a legitimate de-
velopment from the work that
went before it, not as facile
copying of new techniques.
There are Utrillo-like streets
from France, unusually suave
and colorful; gay, sketchy notes
from Colombo and Bombay,
full of movement and charming
in their yellowish color-scheme ;
a clear, cold painting of
“Princes - street, Edinburgh,”
more like a pen-drawing than a
watercolor and lacking the lyri-
cal quality of some of Rah
Fizelle’s early paintings of the
same city, but still attractive for
its clarity ; a striking landscape-
pattern of a walled road and a
bald hill in the fields of Prov-
ence ; and strongly displaying
the development into warmth of
color and a richer and more
compact kind of landscape, a
fine group of watercolors from
Brixham and Mevagissey—fish-
ing-boats, storm and cottages.
♦+♦ *x* ♦>
Queensland Landscapes
Landscapes from tropic
Queensland by Arthur Evan
Read at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries look like a landslide
from Gauguin’s Tahiti which
has got thin and murky in
travelling the distance. There
are force sand feeling in the
wind-swept palms of “House on
the Sand” and the dark exuber-
ance of “Evening Street Scene,
Cairns,” but the emotional effect
is negatived by the lack of all
aesthetic quality in the paint it-
self, which is crude and tacky
and looks amateurish. This may
be partly the result of painting
on the hard surfaces of pre-
pared-cardboard and three-ply
(one landscape has three nail-
holes through it); but Percy
Lindsay used to be able to get
the most subtle and delicate
effects on the occasions when he
chose to use similar substitutes
for canvas.
“F.S.”: Ernest Buckmaster is
once more up for inspection at
Melbourne Athenaeum with his
customary portraits, still-life and
panoramic landscapes. Buck-
master is a serious painter,
despises , technical incompet-
ency and believes he is fighting
the good fight for the great
tradition of Velasquez and
Rembrandt. Actually he is in
the Bernard Hall tradition. Hall
was a skilful painter, but he
was only skilled in what the
academies had taught him. The
formulas he learnt at the Slade
School he taught his students ;
and Buckmaster became so apt
as recently to give a public
demonstration, painting a land-
scape of river, bush and moun-
tain out of his head. There was
something of Nature in it, just
as there is something of Nature
in his rhododendrons, the most
sensitive of his pictures in the
current exhibition; but there
was much more of Bernard Hall,
There i§ less formula and more
{esthetic quality in the portrait
of Old Wymer than in the large
portrait of Dame Mary Daly.
There is a decorative charm
about William Prater’s paint-
ings of the Port Douglas district
and far-north Queensland at the
Peter Bray Gallery in Mel-
bourne, but they seem rather
hasty. We learn about Bedarra
and Dunk Islands that the sea
is blue, the mountains are livid
yellow, the skies pink, the
beaches orange and the palm-
trees like dilapidated mops, and
these are interesting facts ; but
the facts are not co-ordinated
and there is less atmosphere
than in most of Prater’s pic-
tures.
tions to the burning question:
Who done it?
Fenella Maguire, Elise
Stewart, Carl Bleazby, Pauline
Charleston, John Tyrell and
others played the first half so
well that it was a pity they
weren’t given a better second.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Macadam and Eve”
This little comedy by Roger
MacDougall about Adam living
for ever like the wandering Jew
and continually failing for Eve
again is as Scotch as a pickled
herring; and if conceivably it
can be presented without the
accent of a pickled herring, as
Sydney Metropolitans tried it, it
still must come rich and briny
from an ocean made up of
whisky, Presbyterianism and
amorous fervor in equal parts.
With Harry Langworthy’s par-
son a vague shadow of some
English curate, Jean Anderson’s
landlady a grey ghost instead of
a plump tempest, and Joseph
Scully’s free-loving medical
student as crudely belligerent as
an Australian unionist about to
go on strike, the Metropolitans’
performance was a herring with-
out salt; a drab and a > surpris-
ingly amateurish production
from a company which has done
so well in the past. Beverley
Harte played the young girl
pleasantly, and John Cooper’s
Adam, though not old, wild,
fierce, polished, wicked and
Scotch enough for the role as
written, at least held the atten-
tion.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Elijah’s” Doppelganger
Mendelssohn’s “Elijah”
turned up at Melbourne Town
Hall as Harold Williams, the
finest baritone in Australia.
Laurence Warner conducted and
a fine performance was given
until Mr. Williams reached the
solo “Lord God of Abraham,”
when his baritone was brought
down by bronchitis. The audi-
ence was staggered, but the con-
ductor thought it worth while to
ask if there was a baritone in
the house.
A young man climbed upon
the platform; he was Gerald
Reid, an East Kew singer who
had previously only sung at
church halls, smoke-nights and
suchlike places, but, strange to
say, had always dreamt of one
day singing “Elijah” at the
Town Hall. A month before he
had got a Harold Williams
record and started studying the
role. He got through with fly-
ing colors, taking off wherever
in a difficult bronchial passage
the veteran singer tapped him
on the shoulder. Apart from
this, the Heidelberg City Choir
and the Presbyterian Oratorio
Society put up a remarkably
good show.
♦♦♦ ++♦
Fairy Play
It would be a hard heart that
could have resisted the childlike
charm of Heather Cell’s fairy
play at Sydney Royal, “Cinder-
ella Was a Princess.” For its
sake one overlooked the ama-
teurish stagecraft, the excruciat-
ingly scratchy records, the
slovenly piano accompaniments,
the overlong and meaningless
ballet at the beginning. But the
unaffected acting of the children
(200 of them, some as
“brownies,” minute creatures no
more than three years of age in
brown tights and huge red woolly
wigs, as pixies with caps like
Sturt’s desert-pea, as fairies in
shimmering cellophane, or just
as little girls dancing) somehow
put a brake on fault-finding, so
that the final effect was one of
delicate enchantment.
Talkies
“The Man in the White Suit”
Alec Guinness is a young'
scientist who wants to produce
indestructible, unstainable fibre;
his ingeniously-contrived pres-
ence is the laboratories of mills
producing synthetic fibres is
never suspected until bills come
in for his fantastic equipment.
When he is discovered in Cecil
Parker’s mill Parker’s daughter,
Joan Greenwood, persuades her
father to let him continue; and
after he has almost blown the
mill to bits with unsuccessful
tests he produces his fibre.
Then all British millowners
and millworkers combine to buy
and suppress the process, which
will ruin them by giving the
world a suit that will never wear
out. Mr. Guinness is im-
prisoned in Mr. Parker’s home,
but released by Miss Green-
wood, who has been sent to
seduce him; a hue and cry after
him in his white suit ends with
the discovery that the fibres are
unstable, the suit coming apart
like cottonwool in his attackers’
hands.
The piece is the nearest to a
pure development of the early
art of Charles Chaplin that one
has seen ; Guinness ■ plays the
obsessed scientist with the dead-
pan Chaplin face ; his astonish-
ing laboratory equipment has a
comic rhythm of burps and
gurgles that few Chaplin proper-
ties could equal; and although
Miss Greenwood has to play a
tougher and more sophisticated
heroine than Chaplin’s, she
makes a merchant-princess of
extraordinary beauty ; nor is she
foolishly allowed to follow him
when he is discarded, penniless,
to dwindle down a long back-
street with all the pathos and
dignity of Chaplin’s old exits,
the embodiment of human in-
adequacy held up by greatness
of spirit with which Chaplin
charmed the world, as did
Don Quixote. (Sydney State.)
“Retreat, Hell!”
War, according to the gospel
of Hollywood, is conducted in
strange fashion indeed. In this
alleged epic of the U.S, Marines
in Korea mobs of Red Chows
saunter beautifully silhouetted
as dream targets for machine-
gunners, and they invariably
charge downhill from heights
they possess, apparently to cap-
ture strategic valleys from
which to dominate the hill posi-
tions. , Also, every battle ends
with the enemy wiped out to
the last man, and so suddenly it
gives the impression that all
gun-, m.-g.- and rifle-fire have
just been turned off like a tap.
Every character has been
taken from the stereotyped file.
There is the grim-lipped colonel,
hard as goats’-knees on his men
but really soft of heart; the
apparent misfit captain who in
his first action gloriously dissi-
pates all the doubts his C.O. had
of him; the bleak-eyed top-
sergeant who barks so much at
his charges that when he gets
really mad his hackles rise ; the
kid-soldier, temporary coward
but ultimate hero, who vindi-
cates his Marine-family honor.
Sure, they’re still all intact at
the finish, every goldurn leather-
neck, though there was one
dreadful moment when it seemed
the sarge had collected the
works. But in the next sequence
there he was leading his men —
apparently he’d only been shot
in the epaulette button. And
from all this amateur war-
making at Sydney Park did this
reviewer finally retreat? Hell!
* ❖ ❖
“Untamed Frontier”
This fairly well-told tale of a
landed feudal family in early
Texas who ruthlessly used
strong-arm methods to prevent
settlers from using Government
land which the family has for
long regarded as its own
domain has the merit of vigor-
ous action, a plot that doesn’t
outrage credulity and a smooth
performance by Joseph Gotten
as the more liberal-minded scion
of the house. There is one really
slap-up indoor fight between
him and his rascally cousin, a
cattle stampede of which the
photographer has made the most
and climactic tension when the
indomitable but pigheaded old
beef-baron, backed by his armed
ranchhands, face the equally de-
termined new settlers across his
boundary-fence. Shelley Win-
ters decorates the rugged scenery
nicely. At Sydney Victory.
♦♦♦ *** *t*
“Mr. Universe”
Spruiker Jack Carson and
wrestling-promoter Bert Lahr go
into partnership to exploit “Mr.
Universe,” a beautiful and
powerful young man who is
too virtuous to act on the
mat (and too wooden to
act on the screen) —he
persists in downing America’s
foremost wrestlers, all appearing
in their real ring-disguises, in 30
seconds. The two promoters try
to weaken him so that he will
lose a match and win them
money; they make ingenious
efforts to this end, aided by
Maxie Rosenbloom, who finds
too late the perfume to which
Mr. Universe is allergic, and
Janice Paige, set like a rose on
this barrow of cauliflower-ears ;
but they weaken the production
instead of the wrestler. (Sydney
Capitol.)
*t* ❖ ❖
“Fort Defiance”
Dane Clark went a.w.l. from
the Civil War and robbed banks
in Mexico to get money to cure
his brother’s blindness. But
home on the range relatives of
men killed because of Mr.
Clark’s defection killed his old
uncle and tried to kill his blind
brother. Blind brother was
saved by a more kindly seeker
after Mr. Clark’s hide ; these two
escaped into Navajo country,
and there Mr. Clark caught up
with them. When the avenger
was not trying to bash Mr.
Clark the trio were helping de-
fend a besieged coach from
Indians. Soldiers arrived ; but
when the party arrived safely in
Fort Defiance Mr. Clark had to
come out shooting at a still-
aggrieved relative and his cow-
hands. He easily killed a
dozen cowhands who had their
guns trained on him, but unfor-
tunately the rancher made 13 —
we parted with reluctance from
Mr. Clark, a larrikin triggerman
of some charm. There was a
fine technicolor shot of blind
brother and emaciated dance-hall
girl against the background of
the coach, a superb picture in
the American style, school of
Benson. (Sydney Civic.).


The CARDINAL
HENRY G. LAMOND
/"] CRACK sounded as if a
f \ gash in the sky had
I opened. It creaked loudly
on rusty hinges as those
doors of sound swung wide;
then an asthmatic giant wheezed
gusts on a dented bugle. Those
blatant sounds ripped the air
like torn sheets of tin; they
struck the earth with a strident
series of echoing shrieks ; they
blended and made music sweet
in its loudness.
A giant arrow-head was in
flight. One wing of that arrow
was nearly half a mile long, with
sixty-three silver-grey birds at
intervals; the other side was
about half that length, with
forty-two pairs of wings with a
span of over seven feet keeping
a straight line.
The leader of the flight
twitched his wings, and that
bugle-call smashed to earth
again. The flight understood
their leader: they followed his
actions as he glided on still
wings, lowered on a long slant,
came down at an easy angle
towards a bare claypan out from
the frontage of the river. The
barbs of the arrow-head swung
in as it neared earth —they
strung out or bunched without
any apparent confusion. Each
bird turned into the wind,
cupped its pinions, threw back
its head, advanced its stilts of
legs. There was a mighty buffet-
ing of air as the birds alighted
—as each took a few running
steps to regain its balance. Then
every unit of that army stood
still and posed.
They were brolgas, known as
native companions, the Aus-
tralian crane. They were tightly
clothed in feathers of silver,
sleek and racy in appearance,
with a bald patch behind the
neck and over the head. The
hens were a shade smaller, slim-
mer, with less coloring on their
helmets —it blazed crimson and
purple on the males.
The leader of the troop was
a giant bird with a crimson cap,
known and nicknamed The
Cardinal because of his brilliant
headgear. He stood about five-
feet-six, and more than four feet
from beak to tail-tip. He, when
he landed, set an example every
individual bird followed: he
turned to the one nearest him;
he bowed elaborately. Each bird
of either sex half-spread its
wings, curved its long neck until
its beak pointed to the ground,
bowed and trod mincingly.
Some were more enthusiastic:
they leapt in the air as they
bowed, trumpeted, stepped aside,
turned and bowed again. And
the big fellow. The Cardinal,
walked with an air of world-
ownership as he passed through
the mob: he was punctilious in
his observance of etiquette, bow-
ing to every bird, which returned
the salute.
The eternal wind raced from
the south-east. It picked up
spoonfuls of dust from beneath
the birds’ feet, whisked it away,
swept the claypan clean and dis-
solved it among the shimmering
leaves of coolibahs which edged
the bare patch of ground. The
sky was cloudless; the sun
sliced rays which cut that clean
air scented with dry grass, buds
of trees, tanged with the taste of
eucalyptus which puckered the
mouth when a man breathed it.
THE flock was just about to
spread when The Cardinal
picked up the ground-vibrations
of ridden horses in the distance.
He stiffened immediately. No
other signal was given ; no sound
was made ; on the instant each
one of those hundred-odd birds
sprang to attention, motionless.
Two ridden horses came
through the fringe of gidyea-
trees bordering the plain on
which the brolgas had alighted.
The Cardinal bugled when the
horses appeared. His scarlet
headdress flashed fire, grew
brighter in his excitement. Some-
thing touched a trigger in the
collective minds of the birds:
they began to weave. They
passed each other in something
of the manner of the grand chain
in a human set of lancers. They
called to each other ; they bowed
as they passed; odd birds
hopped in the air without an
actual attempt at flight; they
spread their legs wide, fluttered
their wings, bowed while they
were in the air, and bowed
again when they landed.
That was the brolgas’ dance.
Anything, and nothing, actu-
ated it. Excitement caused
it; advancing danger was an
excuse for it; joy, grief, any
passion was the starting-point.
They danced at any hour of the
day ; when disturbed they danced
by night; the dance had no set
steps, no measures, only an
instinct of the birds to drain
energy and an outlet for excite-
ment. ,
The brolgas grew more de-
monstrative as the ridden horses
came nearer. One nervous young
hen began to run. Her strides
grew longer. She rose slightly.
Her legs pedalled with the
grotesque action of a man run-
ning over feather pillows in a
dream. She touched ground with
her feet, bounced in the air, and,
as her wings bit and took hold,
she folded her long legs behind
her in the manner of two sides
of a stepladder. The others fol-
lowed her. And the air sobbed
and sighed as it was torn and
churned when those mighty
wings gripped it.
After the men and horses had
disappeared the brolgas circled
several times in mile-wide
sweeps. They got into some
formation for their landing-
exercises, and, at a call from The
Cardinal, they followed him
back to the claypan. There, after
the customary bowing and other
exchanges of courtesies, they
searched for food —according to
one authority, insects, small
rodents, frogs, reptiles; also
herbage and edible roots of
various kinds; according to
another, insects, lizards, bulbous
roots, seeds. In short, a common
observer would say everything
except carrion.
Foraging, the brolgas
turned over -clods, tossed
lumps of cattle-droppings aside,
pecked bark and rotten limbs of
trees. Some tugged at tussocks
of grass ; odd ones probed the
ground; one small coterie
worked the entrails of a dead
cow: they scattered dry filth as
they raked in the manner of
domestic fowls in search of
small scraps of edible fragments.
One of them jumped in his
excitement: he had unearthed
a collection of a low order of
beetles. Those beetles never
knew what struck them.
The Cardinal felt the first
warmth of summer. His helmet
flashed. He advanced to the hen
of his choice. She might have
been his lifelong mate; it may
have been a seasonal affair of
mutual convenience. He sought
her deliberately, threading his
way through the mob until he
found her. It would seem they
knew each other ; they met with-
out any apparent introduction.
Other birds had similar no-
tions. Two young bucks had a
disagreement over a demure,
smug young hen. The cocks
spread their wings, buckled their
knees till they crouched low,
raised the hackles along their
necks, and their brick-colored
heads blazed red with fury. They
circled. One fellow pecked a
pebble from the ground and
threw it aside. The other raked
his feet, scratched dust, snatched
at a twig and held it a second
or two in his beak. Their heads
were outstretched, eyes glaring,
and their fluffed feathers swelled
them to nearly twice their nor-
mal size.
The other birds came running,
calling as they ran. They formed
a ring about the fighters. They
shouted advice; they called a
warning ; they prepared to enjoy
the spectacle.
The Cardinal strutted about
the ring. He looked important.
He was important. He had ap-
pointed himself master of cere-
monies. The fighters closed with
a flash of feathers and a scurry
of dust, two bodies pressed
chest -to - chest. Their legs
trembled. Their bills were locked
like two vices clamped one
within the other, chests flat-
tened, and they pressed. Occa-
sionally one bird would shake
in the intensity of his action as
the other held tight and strove
to damp the effort. The object
may have been to slip the oppo-
nent’s mandible spear from his
beak, to let it slide along the
bill of the victor and then to
drive his own javelin of a beak
down the other’s throat.
They shook and worried,
pushed, heaved and strained as
each tried to slip the other ; they
scratched the ground, raked dust,
chopped ground to powder be-
neath them.
The crowd yelled its delight.
They encouraged, abetted, ad-
vised; they hopped in the air,
bowed, screamed and danced ;
pairs became engaged in little
skirmishes which ended as sud-
denly as they began ; some, un-
able to curb their excitements,
raced across the plain on legs
which plaited as they ran.
The Cardinal, as important as
a politician, considered this dis-
graceful affair had better be
stopped. It was no use giving an
order; his voice could not be
heard above the din. He pushed
his way between the warriors,
bustled them apart, gave each an
admonitory peck to let them
know he was boss.
The fighters, rather like
human beings, were only too
glad to stop. They parted with
feigned reluctance, pretended to
try to slip past The Cardinal in
an effort to continue the com-
bat, then, ruffled and boasting,
each went away with his own set
of followers.
The Cardinal returned to his
mate. He spread his wings till
the tips of them touched the
ground; he fanned his absurd
wisp of a tail; he arched his long
neck as he strutted. He called
in low buglings which might have
been whispers of love.
MADAME was not a cheap
thing to be picked up
casually. She would be wooed.
She tossed - her head, turned
away, pretended to take no
notice as she tugged at a tussock
of Mitchell-grass. The Cardinal
added to his efforts. His head
blazed like living fire ; his wing-
tips scratched little furrows in
the dust; his tail-feathers grated
when they rubbed as he spread
them.
Madame relented. She took a
few running strides, spread her
wings, gripped the air and rose.
The Cardinal followed.
The hen flew with a purpose:
she led over a plain about five
miles in diameter, anything up
to seven miles out from the river.
She alighted about the centre of
that plain. It was evidently a
selected spot. One tussock of
grass was exactly like another ;
one acre was similar to any other
acre; there were no landmarks
by which she could take cross-
bearings. Her instinct guided
her to that one pinpoint in the
ocean of grass. The Cardinal
settled beside her. He touched her
beak with his ; he gurgled mes-
sages deep down in his throat.
Building a nest was a simple
matter: the grass had to be trod-
den flat. There was no depres-
sion, no decoration, nothing
other than the trodden grass and
bare ground. The birds were
satisfied.
One night, not long after the
first egg was laid, a passing
cloud spilled a shower of rain.
That started the brolgas bugling.
They answered each other across
the miles. If they were in com-
pany they doubtless danced.
The Cardinal knew what he
was doing: he flew next morn-
ing direct to an old cattle-camp.
The droppings on that camp
were brick-dry, baked hard,
cemented to the surface by their
own moisture when first dropped.
That spatter of rain would bring
insects to the surface ; the wet
would dissolve the cement which
bound those clods to the earth.
When The Cardinal breasted
up to the wind, cupped his
wings, spread his long legs
before landing, an old-man
goanna flickered his forked
tongue from its basal sheath and
hissed his dislike of the bird’s
intrusion. He was anything up
to six feet long, armored with
small scales, full of fighting
spirit. He did not fight for the
fun of fighting: he crouched
low, belly-to-earth, and waited.
The Cardinal saw the goanna.
He stiffened. He watched. The
goanna did not move. They
eyed each other warily. Appar-
ently concluding that there was
plenty of room for both if they
kept away from each other, they
set to work.
The goanna slid his nose under
a clod, tipped it away from him,
pounced on earthworms, beetles
and centipedes. The Cardinal
worked in an opposite direction:
he leant forward, hooked his
bill under a clod, tipped it
towards him. They worked
systematically; and when the
goanna scuttled away and The
Cardinal spread his wings in
flight not a clod of manure re-
mained unturned, A conserva-
tive estimate would have placed
the number of living things
under each clod at about ten.
Not one of them escaped—at
least, not one per cent. It was
complete and scientific murder.
Another day a dozen or more
brolgas, The Cardinal among
them, decided to prove the pos-
sibilities of a drying waterhole.
They waded into it, stalked along
the edges, stirred the mud and
silt. Shrimps and small fish
splashed in protest, while crows
gathered on the trees and cawed
their encouragement. After the
brolgas had stirred the hole and
taken the edges off their appetites
with a fish snack they stalked
out on the plains. The crows
dropped down to finish what the
brolgas had started, though
they did not venture more than
knee-deep.
That night storms told of the
approach of the wet season.
Piled-up clouds, rocked by
thunder, sliced by lightning,
belched rain ; gullies surged with
brown water; green shoots
poked timorously above the
ground; life spewed from the
earth —bugs and beetles, flies
and mosquitoes, centipedes which
slid silently, and grasshoppers
which clicked their hind legs in
their millions of millions.
Those younger brolgas which
had been late about pairing
went immediately about the great
business of life. There was food
and to spare. Those like The
Cardinal, who had mated early,
perhaps congratulated themselves
upon their foresight.
ON a day when steam rose
from the hot ground, when
the sun rode high and blistered
with his searing heat, an old-man
goanna went prospecting. He
was full-fed, gorged, arrogant
with the insolence of good-living.
He picked up the scent of the
brolga’s nest. His dull mind
may have considered an egg a
fitting finish to his meal of grass-
hoppers and other light rubbish.
He rustled through the grass,
disdainful of secrecy, as he
worked his way towards the
source of that scent.
It was a sacred day for The
Cardinal and his mate. One
large egg, which had once been
glossy-white, with purple-red
splashes on it, now weather-
stained and dirty, had broken
and spilled its contents in the
nest, a sprawling mite, all legs,
bare belly and beak. The other
egg had begun to chip.
When The Cardinal saw the
goanna he charged to the attack,
half-running, half-flying, his head
low, his helmet blazing. The
goanna could dodge like light-
ning, but he could not dodge
The Cardinal’s stab. When that
pickaxe struck him at the base
of the skull, where neck joined
head, the goanna went limp. His
jaw was open, his long tongue
lolling in the dirt. Hungry ants
seized on it.
o Continued on page 22)
DECLARATION
My house is the world,
my clock the sky.
My bed is the ground,
my sleep one eye.
My house is the world,
and my house is your own.
My road is the world
that the sun will display.
And if there are clouds
then I lose a day,
but my road is the world.
My work is the world,
I took it on trust.
If 1 follow the road
it’s to prove that I must,
but my work is the world.
My self is the world,
it’s all that I’ve got.
It’s only loaned
till the day I drop,
but my self is the world,
and my heart is your own:
it’s all I can give.
But I know it’s well-wound,
that it’s yours with love,
that my heart is your own,
that my heart is your own.
N.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.


WORMALD BROTHERS SYSTEMS—for protection against fire
CARELESSNESS DID THIS! q
.v
»» :
ri
mmtm
bo* e .
\a
COW
As long as there is human carelessness there
will be fires. You can't prevent fires. But you
can prevent them from spreading and causing
material damage—with Grinnell Protection.
Grinnell Automatic Sprinklers control a fire
whenever and wherever it strikes, night or day,
automatically, without fail. That's why Grinnell
Protected buildings carry a rebate of up to 50%
on Fire and Loss of Profits insurance premiums.
If your business or property is not Grinnell
Protected today—you’re carrying a grave risk.
Why wait for fire to strike? Wormald Brothers'
experienced engineers will help you plan
protection for your specific risk.
A complete fire protection service is main-
tained by Wormald Brothers at all branches
throughout Australia and New Zealand.
'Phone us and a representative will call.
I.
r»
ijiillVltiiLL
Automatic Sprinkler
and
Fire Alarm System
fs
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
throughout Australia and New Zealand
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889


MORE WORK PER DAY WIT
Mobilco
1
✓
>. sr /ir ar
tm
m
«
m
w
N.
MODEL "B" CIRCULAR SAW
Thousands of these hard-working, lightweight Mobi Icos have been sold and there's sure to be one working in
your district right near your own place. Ask one of these owners what he thinks of his Mobilco and you will
find out why Mobilco is preferred by wood-cutters, contractors and land owners. Sturdy, reliable 7 B.H.P.
4-stroke engine, shaft driven to take any size blade up to 42 inch, clutch to disengage saw drive when not
cutting, lightweight for easy handling, 6 months guarantee. These are the features which make Mobilco the
only machine for you.
LIGHTWEIGHT, HEAVY DUTY ELECTRIC BORING ATTACHMENT
to fit Mobilco Saw or any make of Tractor
You save time and you save labor when you use the Mobilco 32 volt Electric Drill for post hole boring. The
light drill on 20 feet of rubber-covered flex is driven by a 32 volt 500 watt generator. Mounted to any
make of Tractor or to your Mobilco Circular Saw it will give continuous and reliable service drilling | holes
in hardwood. You don't know how much easier post boring can be until you use a Mobilco Electric Boring/j
Attachment.
m m
li
WM
FENCING! A ONE-MAN JOB
WITH MOBILCO
A Post Hole Digger attachment can be fitted to the
MOBILCO in a few minutes. With it one man
can dig and clear a clean round hole 2ft. Bin.
deep in a few seconds. You can have 8, 10 or
12 inch diameter auger. This Attachment makes
Mobilco a true one-man fencing plant to fell the
trees, cut the posts and dig the holes.
THE MOBILCO-ELECTRO BORING OUTFIT
Light, Fast and Reliable. Take it to the Job anywhere.
Here is a compact machine, easy to lift on to a truck or wheel about a
paddock. 32 volt, 500 watt electric generator, 20 feet of flex and
heavy duty drill all mounted on a rugged chassis ... at your fingertips
for repair or replacement fencing. Bores f" hole in hardwood.
FULL COLOR FOLDERS HAVE ALL THE INFORMATION YOU
WANT. WRITE FOR ONE TODAY.
\7
MOBILCO
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD. MITCHAM. PHONE: WU 1081
(9 LINES) _ . . - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, MELB,
CITY OFFICE - 252 SWANSTON STREET, MELB. PHONE: FB 3023
BRANCHES - SYDNEY. BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS .... ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
r»w
ys.
BRANDAUERS
PENS
fas-,
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Led
Birmingham, England
The Cardinal sailed in with
more speed than science; he
scratched, raked and pecked.
He danced over the body of the
goanna and shrieked his triumph,
posing in the manner of a con-
queror.
The vibrations of a ridden
horse stilled him. The horse-
man was a stockman looking
over the results of the recent
rains. Attracted by The Car-
dinal’s cries, he rode towards
the bird.
The Cardinal usually took
eight to ten running strides
before he lifted from the ground.
This time he took-off from a
standing-start—the matter was
urgent. The wind whistled as
his wings sliced it. He flew
straight at the horseman. And
behind him, echoing his shrieks,
came his mate. The birds landed
a hundred yards or more ahead
of the horse. The hen screamed
her anger. The Cardinal bugled.
The horseman continued, to
ride in the direction of the nest.
The Cardinal fell to the ground,
while his mate slunk low through
the grass. He panted as he
gasped for breath ; he sucked
air in sobbing gulps as he rose
unsteadily to his feet. He limped,
one wing trailing, as he tottered
away at right-angles to the direc-
tion the man was riding—away
from the nest. He stumbled,
propped himself up with his
beak, which he used as a third
leg, and, when the man followed
him, he fell again and threshed
on the ground,
The man was mystified. He
could not understand the sudden
ailment of the brolga. He turned
to follow it.
The Cardinal managed to keep
ahead of the man. He limped,
gasped, stumbled; he shook as j
with an ague; he drew the man
to follow him a couple of hun-
dred yards. Then, with waver-
ing wings, he flew a short dis-
tance. He landed again, fell,
struggled, found it difficult to
rise.
The man had no use for a
dead brolga. He turned his horse
and ro<^e i* l fh e or igi na l direc-
tion-Mowards the nest.
The Cardinal bugled loudly,
His mate answered him. The
two of them rose in the air and
charged the man, viciously and
with determination. At that
moment the man saw the answer
to the riddle: a sprawling lump
of wet flesh lying on the ground,
a broken eggshell behind it. He
turned his horse.
The parents watched the
horseman ride over the crest
of the downs. The Cardinal
shrieked his triumph ; he danced
to celebrate his victory. The hen
slid through the grass to her
nest, gurgled a deep note in her
throat, sank and covered her
babies.
T'HOSE babies found their feet
1 next day. They had their
first sleep, gained strength and
woke with squeaks of hunger,
They followed their parents from
the nest. Their baby legs were
a little inclined to twist and plait
when they tried to run.
A kite-hawk took note of the
family travelling below. It swung
lower, took observations, may
have considered a baby brolga a
commendable item on the menu.
But the kite had a bump of
caution. It saw The Cardinal
turn his head and follow its
course through the air. The kite
knew, if it made a mistake of a
thousandth of an inch, if it failed
by the millionth fraction of a
second, then its own body would
provide a feast for ants, beetles
and flies. It was not prepared
to take the risk. It swung round
once, lowered a little in swing-
ing, and it saw how the point
of the living javelin of a bill
pointed at it. The kite swung
yet lower, snapped a grasshopper
brushed from the grass beneath
The Cardinal’s feet, called its
triumph and sailed away.
The parents led their clutch to
the claypan flat out from the
river. After the rains, while the
ground was still wet, mungeroos
grew in profusion on that clay-
pan. The birds relished the
oniony bulb which grew beneath
the fragile stalk; they knew
exactly how to pull those things
which so few men could do with
success ; they also knew, without
reasoning about it, that in favor-
able weather those bulbs would
grow faster than brolgas could
pull them.
The Cardinal walked out on
the flat among the other birds.
He may have been hungry , be
might have been fretted with
care ; but he did not forget his
manners: he bowed right and
left to all as he passed through
them. The hen kept her babies
on the outskirts of the mob. She
waited until The Cardinal re-
turned. Then she handed the
family over to his care and had
her fill of the sweet succulence
of the mungeroos.
In common with those of
many ground-nesting birds, the
wings of the baby brolgas were
first to sprout real feathers.
Just before those wings attained
strength, when the birds were
beginning to look sleek, a prowl-
ing red tomcat marked a baby
brolga. It crouched as it wormed
through the grass towards them.
It slid its claws in and out of
their sheaths in readiness to
attack.
Some inexplicable sense
prompted the parent birds: they
charged blindly, and the fury of
their rush flattened grass three
feet on either side of them. The
cat did not wait. It fled, its red
tail streaking behind it, its fur
erect, spitting hate as it dodged.
It gained the trunk of a coolibah.
It slipped round to the other side.
Its claws scratched the bark as
it climbed.
The birds hopped awkwardly
as they tried to reach the cat.
They stayed under the bough on
which it was crouched. They
hurled curses at it. Then they
returned to their babies.
One chicken crouched under a
tussock of Mitchell-grass, its
head stretched along the ground,
its eyes shut, almost invisible.
The other lay in the open, on the
bare ground, ants already gather-
ing about its gaping beak.
Something, and it may have
been an eagle or a kite, had
swooped on the baby and broken
its neck with one lightning stroke
of its talons or buffet with its
wing.
The parents in their grief tore
up the ground; they tossed
pebbles*and tussocks in the air;
they furrowed the earth with
their bills ; they cried loudly their
distress. Then they walked away
with their sole chicken at their
heels.
I ATER, towards the end of
*—> March, when the breeding-
season was nearing its end, The
Cardinal and his mate separated.
It was not a divorce: they were
released of domestic duties and
family responsibilities; they
would stay in the one mob,
though they would not share
each other’s lives. They would
certainly bow when passing ; but
familiarities would stop at that.
When her parents separated
the child —and it may have been
a hen by her smaller size—
decided she knew enough of the
world to look after herself. She
needed no teaching. She may
have inherited her parents’
prowess —a mongrel dingo with
a white scar along its ribs would
have been the first to admit it.
She left her father and mother.
She bowed to them when she
passed them in the mob; she
gave no other indication that she
had ever known them or that she
wished to have anything further
to do with them. She was fully
independent.
She sprang to attention when
The Cardinal bugled. She ran
with the mob which streamed
behind him. She opened her
wings when he spread his. In
company with the others, she
left the claypan for the wind to
sweep clean against their return.


Insure) with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Manager.
YOUNG SHAVER
SwssS*?;
J* X
585 f
m
IT
n
i
Boys will be men, soon
enough it’s those snap-
shots made when they are
only “young shavers” that
will be treasured in later
years. For indoor or outdoor
snapshots you can’t beat
KODAK Super-XX Film.
pA .
n
ko
Ho
si S
fl]Z
Sup
m
cHBS
spj>
Hiili
KF674
KODAK DEALERS
a COVERNOR
PASSED
By JIM McCARTER
~ I EM, come quickly...
quickly, Jem!”
I As he stood outside of
his house with its slab
front and remaining walls made
of rammed mud Jem Harkins
stopped sharpening a wooden
stake and listened.
“Jem, do come quickly,”
came his wife’s urgent call
again.
Harkins dropped his axe and
bounded towards the kitchen, a
low detached of logs
which ran at right-angles to the
sleeping quarters of the
pioneer’s home. When he
reached the back door he paused
momentarily to give a swift look
at the edge of the clearing a
hundred yards or so away where
wild aborigines sometimes
appeared, then crossed the black
mud floor made hard by careful
and constant watering since the
Harkinses had built the place six
months before, early in 1830.
Martha had hardened the floor
besides helping her man erect
every slab and ram every cubic
foot of mud that went into the
building of their sturdy home.
Broad-shouldered and as tall as
her rugged husband, she was
typical of the young immigrant
women who had wedded in
Sydney Town and trekked over
the pristine Blue Mountains
with their newly-found part-
ners to gamble their future in
unknown territory. At twenty-
six years of age her hands were
pitted like Jem’s and stained
with the dark soil of the
Bathurst Plains.
“What’s amiss, Martha?”
When she did not answer he
went to her side as she stood by
the kitchen-door opposite the
one through which he had
entered.
“What’s amiss, lass?” he
asked again.
For a fleeting second she
jerked her head back in a half-
fearful, half-welcoming glance.
Then she returned her gaze to
a distant track that wended
over a series of knolls and
timbered ridges. The path led
fifteen miles away to a handful
of unpretentious structures
which constituted the few resi-
dences and convict settlements
of Bathurst, then the most in-
land township west of the Blue
Mountains in the colony of
New South Wales.
“Men, Jem,” declared Martha
in monotone. “I saw men com-
ing this way. Over yonder.”
She pointed to where a clump
of large eucalyptus - trees
marked a turn in the track.
“Are you sure, lass?” There
was doubt in Jem’s question.
“There are not many men and
women in these parts. We are
not in Sydney Town, you
know,” he added jocularly.
“I am certain, as certain as I
am of standing here. Many
men,” she repeated quietly but
convincingly.
“Strange,” he murmured.
Suddenly he ejaculated: “I see
them! Crossing the rise near
the timber.” He stretched out a
great arm bared to the elbow
as he pointed.
“I don’t like it,” she whis-
pered breathlessly.
Jem pulled her roughly but
protectively inside and closed
the door, barring it with a piece
of thick timber which he had
squared for the purpose when
they had first erected the
kitchen.
“May God help us, Martha,”
he said reverently as he specu-
lated on the strength of the
door to withstand assault, “And
may God forgive me if any
harm comes to you.”
Quickly mastering his fear, he
gave a terse order:
“Smart, now! Get my pistol
and two guns. Load the muskets
and stand them behind the
woodpile.”
He pointed to where the
kindling-wood was neatly
stacked by the door leading to
the back where he had been
working.
“Then hide yourself in the
shoulder of the chimney behind
the back log and stay silent,” he
impressed in a firm voice.
“But, Jem,” she expostulated,
“I can use a musket and pistol,
t 00”..,.
She broke off at the compel-
ling look in his grey eyes and
went obediently but speedily to
the task of ramming powder and
shot into the muzzle-loaders and
pistols. After flinging her arms
about his neck and pressing a
warm kiss upon his bearded
cheek she crept into a corner
of the big, open fireplace, a
little to the left behind the
smouldering back log, the front
of which was a hissing mass of
glowing coals. She had scarcely
crouched on her haunches in
concealment when the murmur
of voices could be heard outside,
followed by the thudding and
shuffling of feet as they crossed
the cleared area around the
house.
PRESENTLY a raucous shout
reached Harkins.
“Hi, there! Hi, ye folk in-
side. Come out! ”
Jem Harkins hesitated, then
unbarred the doorway and
looked out over the mounting
heap of fresh chips which had
flown before his axe as he
sharpened the stakes he intended
using for a fence to enclose a
vegetable plot which his wife
wanted near the house. Fully
sixty men stood before him
armed with strange accoutre-
ments. Many of them carried
muskets and pistols, but the
majority held axes and sticks.
Some were heavily bearded and
wore tattered straw hats;
others, with the down of youth
on their eager faces but recently
displaced by thin beards, stood
back from their elders. Nearly
all were dressed in the garb by
which assigned servants and
convicts were easily recognised.
Seeing this and remembering
Martha secreted in the kitchen
chimney, Jem’s stomach turned
sick. But at least, came the
thought, they were not hostile
blackfellows.
“Good-day to you,” he said
with forced hilarity. “Is there
anything wrong?”
“Anythin’ wrong!” A huge
man with a disordered red beard
and battered black hat, who
flourished a pistol as though his
fingers were itching to use it,
repeated the settler’s words with
heavy sarcasm.
“No,” he continued, looking
around at some of his com-
panions, “there be nothin’
wrong—except all of us!” He
laughed loudly and slapped his
thigh, sobering instantly to add:
“Nothin’ wrong ’cept me mother,
who said I’d die wi’ me boots
on.”
This time the other members
of the band bawled with
laughter until silenced by
another, who was obviously
their leader. Jem was trying to
assess the man when he spoke,
“Keep quiet, lads!” Smiling,
the young spokesman faced the
crowd. “Let me do the talking.”
“Good for ye,” came the ready
response.
With that the young man
addressed Jem Harkins.
“My name is Entwhistle, Ralf
Entwhistle,” he said, watching
the settler’s face carefully. “We
want food and much of it,
master,”
“For all these men?” Harkins
snread his hands hopelessly. “I
have hardly that much. Master
Entwhistle.”
“Bushrangers must eat, you
know,” said Entwhistle omin-
ously.
“Bushrangers! ”
“Aye, bushrangers, or rebels
... anything you care to call us.
But we have made ourselves free
men,” he cried vehemently. The
outlaws cheered him,
“You won’t be free long if
you are tardy, Master Ent-
whistle,” Harkins said as he
shook his head regretfully.
“Bushranging can be a hanging
matter, so it can.”
“That is a risky thing to say,
Master whatever-your-name-be,”
retorted Entwhistle hotly. “It is
a brave thing, too, with so many
of us about you.” He waved
his hand to signify the strength
of the band. “Surely,” he
scoffed, “you wouldn’t be want-
ing to try yourself as Jack
Ketch, would you?”
“Not I, Master Entwhistle,”
replied Harkins, realising his
dangerous blunder, and knowing
that if the rebels took it into
their heads they might murder
him and discover Martha, The
latter thought caused his heart
to beat faster. “No, I’m not
wanting to b$ a hangman,
Master Entwhistle,” he went on
deliberately, leaving his position
by the door in answer to an
impulse.
STEPPING to the ground, he
commenced to strip off his
coarse shirt. Then, when he
stood before them, an enormous,
deep-chested giant, bared to the
waist, with large neck and torso
muscles bulging with strength,
he slowly pivoted so that every-
one could see the ugly scars
across his shoulders and back
where the cat-o’-nine-tails had
ripped into his flesh in the
recent past. But the outlaws
could not see his face suffused
with humiliation.
“The lash! ” gasped Ent-
whistle, stepping back involun-
tarily. “A lag, too, by heaven!”
“Not a convict now, Master
Entwhistle, but a free settler.”
Harkins faced about again. “No
thanks to Governor Darling.”
“Guv’nor Darling! That
!”
A man who was among those
who had crowded close to see
the settler when he had revealed
his back yelled the profanity.
“Yes, Governor Darling,” re-
peated Harkins as he replaced
his shirt and thrust the tails into
his trousers. “He had me
flogged . . . wrongfully . . .
shamefully, and my emancipa-
tion was delayed.”
“Governor Darling made
every man Jack of us turn bush-
rangers,” cried Entwhistle
angrily. He turned to the settler
with a strange, hunted look that
made Jem wonder at the change
in the man. “We are all plain
convict folk, some with better
education than others, with a
price on our heads, and we are
very hungry and desirous of
moving on quickly.”
“God help you, Master Ent-
whistle,” murmured Harkins
impulsively.
“God help Governor Darling,
curse his black Administration,”
growled the other in reply.
“Now about food, Master Ex-
lag,” he went on in brighter
tones, not seeing Jem flinch at
the term. “Can you help us
{Continued on page 24)


m
For Your Health 9 s Sake
CHOOSE AN AKUBRA
Doctors say it is dangerous to go
bareheaded in Australia’s climate,
so don’t take chances always
wear an Akuhra. Akubra Hats
are specially designed to protect
your face, neck and eyes from
heat, dust and wind. No matter
what the weather may be, you feel
comfortable and look comfortable
when you’re wearing an Akubra.
What is more, Akubra represents
the best hat value in the world.
The quality is high—the price is
right.
The range includes the exact style
and shade to suit you—so choose
an Akubra.
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE HAT
A 2-82
How to Argue
If someone tries to pick a
quarrel with you, you can (1)
hit him; (2) walk away; (3)
start a slam-bang argument
and get no place; or (4)
follow the advice in December
Reader’s Digest.
In a stimulating article,
Stuart Chase explains his
proven technique for winning
arguments—with no fisticuffs,
no enemies made, no shouting,
no backing down.
In this issue, too, 30 other
stimulating articles condensed
from the world's leading maga-
zines and current books.
Reader’s Digest Is translated
into 12 different languages and
circulated in over 100 countries,
bringing enjoyment to millions
of readers around the world.
Get your December Reader’s
Digest today. One shilling and
sixpence at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
out? Have you any flour?
What about meat?” Though he
fired the questions rapidly, he
was plainly much more friendly
than when he had first spoken
to Harkins after the settler had
bared his back.
“Flour is very expensive,” re-
plied the settler, turning towards
the kitchen door and drawing
Entwhistle with him. The others
remained behind, content to
allow their leader do the bar-
gaining. “But,” he went on as
they reached the entrance, “I
can give you a couple of bags,
leaving myself two.”
“Two bags should be plenty
for us, Master Settler, and
enough for you, I daresay, for
you don’t appear to have any
servants about the place...the
likes of me or the lads outside,”
he added to emphasise his mean-
ing. “And you are a free man,
Master, although the lash-marks
are across your back?” He
asked the question wistfully.
“Yes, Master Entwhistle.”
Then, wishing to discontinue a
subject that was very painful to
him, Harkins took the plunge:
“The reason why I can give
you only two bags of flour is
that I have a wife and my patch
of corn is not yet ripe. We
have to live until the crop is
taken off.”
“A wife?” The outlaw ap-
peared to muse as he stood in-
side of the kitchen-door. “I
was wondering how this place
of yours came to be so tidy,
Where is she?”
“Visiting folk in Bathurst,”
lied Harkins without undue
haste as he went to the corner
where four bags of flour were
stacked. Out of the corner of
his eye he saw Entwhistle look-
ing around the kitchen, and he
thrust his right hand into his
trouser-pocket in order to assure
himself that his pistol was
handy. But Entwhistle’s curi-
osity was superficial. The bush-
ranger walked to the door after
a rapid scrutiny and called to
some of his followers outside
“Here, lads. Come and get
this flour.” As Andy, the big
man who had first spoken to
Harkins, came up with two
companions Entwhistle addressed
him.
“if you don’t keep your
peepers on this food and see
see all share and share alike,
Andy m’lad, I’ll make it my
personal business to see that
your mother’s words come true.
You’ll die in your boots.”
Big Andy chuckled at the
simple jest,
“That Ralf be a merry lad,”
he confided to Jem, winking as
he grasped the flourbags at one
end while his fellow-bushrangers
caught the other extremities and
marched off.
“Now, about meat, Master
Settler?” asked Entwhistle.
“I have one working bullock,”
said Harkins truthfully. “If
you take him from me I will be
without a beast for ploughing
and carting my goods from the
settlement. 1 have two boars
and one sow. If you take the
sow I will be without a breeder,
But,” he suggested hopefully,
“take one of the boars by all
means, and gladly I’ll give him.”
“We will leave you the bullock
and sow. Master Settler. Give
us one of your boars, and many
thanks to you.”
Entwhistle’s brow wrinkled
unexpectedly as a thought came
to him.
“But remember, Master,” he
said warningly, “you did not give
us these things. Understand?
Soldiers and settlers are after us
like dogs after a quarry, and
they might not take kindly to
anyone who gave food to rebels
without a fight.” For some in-
explicable cause he grasped
Harkins’s arm in an impulsive
vicelike hold. “They might re-
member that back of yours.
They might want to take your
freedom again, or persecute
you. I wouldn’t like that.”
Jem nodded slowly, wonder-
ing the while, as they set out
for the pig-sty.
“Thank you. Master Ent-
whistle,” he said feelingly.
are very thoughtful,”
Presently the boar was cap-
tured and its legs tied. Then,
with a pole thrust between its
limbs, the squealing animal was
borne off to be slaughtered.
But Harkins did not witness
that because Entwhistle ordered
the feast to take place at the
evening camp.
Not until the men vanished
did the settler move from the
position he had taken up near
the back kitchen-door. Then he
turned slowly, only to run two
paces when inside and help his
cramped wife to her feet. He
clasped her tightly to him as
she stood erect, and she
responded with a fierce embrace
and kissed him.
“I heard everything you said
to them, Jem.” She placed an
understanding hand on his
shoulder. “You showed your
lash-marks.”
“Aye, Martha. It was the
only way they would trust me,
knowing that I’d been whipped.
They might have plundered our
nest, lass, and might have
found you, too, after they had
done with me.”
That night they barred
the door and sat into the
early hours by the huge log-
fire, both agreeing that by some
mischance the men might take it
into their heads to return. Their
eyes became heavy. They
spread a red kangaroo-skin rug
before the blaze and slept.
A FEW days after the con-
victs had visited Har-
kins’s place in their detours to
avoid capture, Peter Inkins,
known as Gossiping Peter, rode
over the very knoll upon which
Martha had first seen the rebels.
His horse, a half-draught bay
animal, anything but handsome,
was very serviceable. Not only
did Inkins use the bay on
periodic visits to neighbors, but
he harnessed the beast to his
wooden plough when required,
being one of the few settlers in
the Bathurst district to own such
a useful horse. Peter’s calls
were prompted more by eager-
ness to pass on local chatter and
scandal than by desire for a
neighbor’s welfare.
j em Harkins was finishing the
stake-fence around his shaping
vegetable-patch when Inkins
arrived. He had seen the man
approaching and had warned
Martha to put the urn over the
fire in rea diness for a bite to
eat.
“Good-day to you, Peter,”
Jem said, coming forward to
greet the newcomer, a dark,
squat fellow with short legs,
bushy black beard and a power-
ful frame. “It is a pleasure to
see you.” He reached up and
shook hands with Inkins, still
astride, then called to his wife,
who bustled out of the kitchen to
pay her respects.
Gossiping Peter had scarcely
dismounted before he began to
unburden himself.
“Have you heard the latest
from the settlement, Jem?” he
asked as he tied his horse to a
tree near the stake-fence,
“What news is that, Peter?”
“About th’ bushrangers... th’
ones who stole your flour an’
pigs. They give themselves
up.”
Husband and wife looked at
one another. How was it pos-
sible, their eyes asked, for any-
one to know the convicts had
visited their place when Martha
and Jem had not left their home
and seen no soul since the rebels
departed—almost ten days ago?
“Stole our flour and pigs?
Who said they stole anything?”
Harkins asked the question.
“Ha! Ye don’t like havin’ to
admit they were too strong for
ye, m’lad,” jeered Peter. “Well,
if ye must know, th’ bushrangers
themselves confessed to thievin’
from th’ settlers, hopin’ to get
off with lighter punishment.
But,” he shook his head dubi-
ously, “ ’tis a swingin’ matter
for some o’ ’em, I’ll warrant.”
He looked over the man and
woman and added: “Ye be for-
tunate, Jem, that they left your
house standin’ after stealin’ your
flour and pigs.”
“They didn’t steal,” declared
Harkins sharply, quite forgetting
the advice given by Entwhistle
as the rebels had departed. “I
gave them two bags of flour and
one boar. They were hungry,
poor creatures.”
“Ye give ’em!” Inkins’s eyes
reflected his surprise, but he was
too dull of wit to know how
close his neighbor was to the
truth. For some reason he
imagined that Harkins did not
wish to admit that his goods
were stolen right from under his
nose.
“That be danged smart o’ ye,
Jem, wery smart. Come, now,
m’lad, how many did ye fill wi’
shot afore they took themselves
off? No one will blab if ye’ve
dug a grave or two down in th’
scrub.”
Jem was about to retort when
he felt a gentle tug from his
wife.
“And ye be not hurted?”
o Continued on page 30)
OUR FATHER
She said my father had whiskers and looked like God;
that he swore like a fettler, drank like a bottle;
used to run away from mother, left money for food;
called us by numbers; had a belt with a buckle.
On Sunday was churchday. We children walked behind.
He d wear a white collar. He’d say good-morning.
And we made jokes about him, we were afraid
because already we understood about hating.
When we’d left the church that was so nice and still,
the minister would let us give the bell a telling-
four dong-dells; and we’d decide that Nell’s
was to be end of the world. It was time for going.
When we got home he’d take off his collar and his shoes
and his Sunday-special braces; and we’d whisper,
he’s not like God. So that he’d belt us for the noise,
and we’d yell. And on Mondays he’d run away from mother.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
'Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
\ J
iil
ii
Even listeners con win
a watch-or a walrus-
in my grand new
AMPOL SHOW
"Number
Please!"
says
JACK DAVEY
"NUMBER PLEASE!"
every Friday at 8 p.m.
on Macquarie Stations:
2GB 2HR 2CA 2WL 2DU 2HD
2LF 2LT 2MG 2MW 2PK 3AW
3CV 4BH 4GR SDN 6IX 6WB
6MD 7HO 7LA
Australian Historical Sketches
True Patriots All
By ML H. ELLIS
ONE of the strangest books
published about early
Australian history is
Commander Geoffrey
Ingleton’s beautifully-produced
True Patriots All, just issued by
Angus and Robertson.
Its compiler describes its con-
tents as “news from early Aus-
tralia told in a collection of
broadsides.” That many of the
items included are not true
broadsides and broadsheets, but
are newspaper reports and other
matter turned into decorated
broadsides, is a side-issue, save
that Mr. Ingleton often makes
the spurious look real in his zeal
for atmosphere and decoration.
He, in effect, sometimes “rolls
his own” broadsheets.
The early Australia of True
Patriots All is not a pleasant
place. It is, in fact, the convict
Australia of sordid tradition.
Everybody is unhappy in it,
except very rarely when they go
to the races or the boxing, on
which occasions only the per-
formers are uncomfortable.
Life generally (as the title-page
and the cover-jacket make clear
in their drawings) consists of
“the terrors of transportation,”
“shipwrecks,” “piracies and
mutinies,” hangings (from the
yardarm and otherwise), flog-
gings at the triangle, massacres
of blacks, massacres of whites,
the ruin of innocent convict
maidens.
Swindlers, forgers and fences
walk through the pages.
Rewards are out for stolen
property. There are “dreadful
sufferings” among unhappy leg-
ironed captives. Emigrants pray
and weep as they leave their
native land amid the execrations
of those they leave behind:
They quit their native land for life,
A land they’ll weep for when away,
Sister and brother —husband —wife
May never meet another day!
The living death of absence, quite
Obscures the gloom of endless night!
But even the emigrants sailing
in ships which were “a semblance
of the Angel Death” were in
Paradise beside those who visited
Ingletonia as convicts. The most
they could expect of Fate,
according to the broadsides in
True Patriots All, was “provi-
dential escape from the gallows”
through the rope breaking at the
critical moment.
If they didn’t get wrecked in
the Roaring Forties on the way
out, or involved in a piratical
capture, or eaten by the
“voracious sharks” in Port Jack-
son, or perish “in a calamitous
state of disease” in “melancholy
circumstances,” or be poisoned
by eating toadfish, or murdered
by blacks, or sent to Newcastle,
they were almost certainly lined-
up as “one of seven unfortunate
men” to be pictured ungracefully
hung in nooses by Mr. Ingleton
or tied up to a triangle and
beaten to a jelly to tap o’ drum.
They could not ask, it seems,
even to be “turned off” skilfully,
for most of Commander
Ingleton’s victims are not
scragged according to standard
practice with the rope under the
left ear and a swaddy’s belt round
their biceps, but with the cord
on the right and their hands
bound at the wrists in front of
them, a posture which no experi-
enced Ketch would ever have
permitted if he could help it,
hangees being given to Rafferty
rules and apt, if able to reach
far enough, to grab the rope
with both hands at a crucial’
moment.
And as for flogging, except for
the Irish, “who would not tell
where the pikes were,” and whose
arms were tied round stout trees
while they were beaten to the
bone from head to foot, the
Ingletonians were carelessly
dealt with in broadsides in a
most unprofessional way. They
were tied anyhow to triangles,
so that they could squirm in
comfort, whereas in real life they
at least could expect expert treat-
ment, and were bound hand-and-
foot with their wrists passed
outside two of the arms of the
triangle and fastened to the third,
so that they could scarcely move
an inch and thus had no chance
of flinching.
Nevertheless, for writers of
blood-and-thunder there are
limitless pabulum and endless
plots in Commander Ingleton’s
book. Anybody who wants the
story of Fisher’s Ghost or the
wreck of the gallant good Riou
related in the “Guardian,” or the
authentic story of the hanging of
Knatchbull or Tawell, the
Quaker, will find it there.
+ . +
It will give writers access to
the results of the first day of
racing in Sydney in 1810, and
to the no - doubt - highly-
veracious “Sydney Gazette”
report of the “Death of the Bush-
ranger bold Jack Donahoe” —a
bit more veracious than the
ballad which tells how:
He fought six rounds with the horse-
police until the fatal ball
Which pierced his heart and made
him start caused Donahoe to fall.
Also the official description,
here printed, destroys the illusion
of the manliness of the cunning
little ruffian, for he was no
glamor-boy in looks, but merely
“a native of Dublin, 23 years of
age, five feet four inches in
height, brown freckled com-
plexion, flaxen hair, blue eyes
and has a scar under the left
nostril.”
Modern boxing scribes can
leam from Ingleton:
Green led with his right mawley
and put a feeler on Sparkes’s wind
organ, and for which he received one
on the dice-box Sparkes put two
on Dick’s mug, but which had only
the effect of causing Dick’s taster to
pop through the opening in his head.
Then there is Henry Parkes’s
letter home on May Day, 1840,
describing the terms of his
employment at Regentville by
Sir John Jamison, who gave him
£25 a year with a ration-and-a-
half of food —“lOilb. beef —
sometimes fit to eat; lOilb. rice
—of the worst imaginable
quality; 6flb. flour —half made
up of ground rice; 21b. sugar-
good tasted brown; ilb. tea —
inferior ; |lb. soap—not enough
to wash our hands; two figs of
tobacco —useless to me.” Thus
the immigrant lived according
to the budding statesman:
For the first four months we had no
other bed than a sheet of bark off a
box-tree and an old door laid on
two cross-pieces of wood, covered
with a few articles of clothing. The
hut appointed for us to live in was
a very poor one. The morning sun-
shine, the noontide shower and the
moonlight of midnight gushed in
upon us alike.... I have not seen one
single individual who came out with
me in the Strathfieldsaye but most
heartily wishes himself back home.
Henry seems to have been
almost as badly off —at least
until he found his way into Par-
liament about 14 years later —
as Mr. Ingleton’s convict maid:
I toil each day in grief and pain
And sleepless through the night
remain.
My constant toils are unrepaid
And wretched is the convict maid.
But not, of course, nearly so
unfortunate as the 414 emigrants,
including 73 children, whose fate
is told in the “Dreadful Ship-
wreck of the Cataraqui emigrant-
ship, 800 tons,” which struck a
reef on the “ironbound coast”
of King Island in the inky, rain-
clad darkness of the early morn-
ing of August 3, 1845. Only Mr.
Guthrie, the chief-mate, and
eight fellow-survivors reached
the shore, and these “almost in
a state of nudity,” to provide the
Launceston “Examiner” with a
succinctly-told but sensational
story of death, heroism and
suffering.
The Eureka Stockade, as docu-
mented in prose and verse from
the records of the time, provides
matter for every taste. The
modern Communist who pictures
the Eureka Flag merely as an
ordinary Australian flag with the
Union Jack removed will be
pained to hear that the cross as
adopted in the rebel literature
of the time was not the constel-
lation but a Christian cross with
five stars on it.
And it will also disappoint
those who are led to believe that
the rebellion of the Stockade was
conducted by English sons of
liberty to read the list of killed
and wounded signed by “Peter
Lalor, Commander -in - Chief,”
which is reproduced in facsimile.
Of 12 known killed in the list
three hailed from Kilkenny, two
from County Clare, one each
from County Donegal and
County Cavan. There was one
from Goulburn (N.S.W.) whose
name was Quinlan, one from
England, one from Scotland and
two from Germany, And all the
20-odd wounded, except two
English and two Canadians, were
Irish.
There seems, on the broadsheet
evidence, to have been very little
justification for the bold state-
ment of the valiant song “Vic-
toria’s Southern Cross,” sung to
the tune of “The Standard
Bearer” that
Victoria men, to scare, stifle or tame,
Ye quarter-deck monsters are too
impotent;
The Southern Cross will float again
the same,
United, Britons, ye are omnipotent.
The rebels seem to have been
no better as poets than they were
as military engineers, strategists
and tacticians.
+ +
There is room for Mr. Ingleton
to produce another book of
broadsheets —one which gives the
brighter side of the news from
early Australia, of which there is
plenty.
There might be a sheet
embodying the impression which
dozens of writers have recorded
of arrival in Port Jackson after
the long voyage—of the scents of
bush-trees, of the young spring
foliage turning red-gold around
the headlands. There might be
one entitled “An Account of the
Jolly Celebrations of the
Milesian Inhabitants of Botany
Bay on the Occasion of the First
St. Patrick’s Day Festival held
in the Colony by kind Permis-
sion of his Excellency Governor
Macquarie.” There might be
reports of the quaint annual
native levees at the Parramatta
every year at which black ladies
shed tears and danced for joy
when their infants were given
prizes, and from which Binghi
went home to the bush stagger-
ing and glass-eyed as he strove
to keep his internal load of beef
and rum balanced. There is
ample material in the fairs with
their greasy-poles and -pigs, their
strange competitions between
man and beast and their stranger
obstacle-races for ladies.
A broadside giving the impres-
sions of the “Gazette” on the
return of the explorers of 1813
from across the Blue Mountains
might find a place side-by-side
with one from Newcastle describ-
ing the setting-out of his Excel-
lency Governor Macquarie to
investigate the Hunter and the
site of Maitland, with ships
saluting and his band playing
like banshees. Governor
Bourke’s visit to Segenhoe and
his welcome by a staggering
army of packbullocks might
provide another.
+ +
Also there are many more
success stories to be told:
“The Diverting Tale of Mr.
Simeon Lord, the boy pick-
pocket who became a Great
Magnate in Botany Bay”;
the authentic “Narrative of
Dr. D’Arcy Wentworth” would
be as remarkable and far more
qualified to appear as “news”
from early Australia than “The
Life and Exploits of Ikey
Solomons,” of London and Van
Diemen’s Land, to which Mr.
Ingleton devotes five pages.
Mr. Ingleton’s book, diverting
as it is in Newgate-calendar
style, fails in balance, since it
paints mainly one side of
the picture and not always
the most interesting one.
Horror is apt to pall when it is
served up deliberately in large
quantities. And though there
were certainly horrors in early
Australia they were a mere trifle
beside the horrors of colonising
in some African and Asiatic
countries. On the whole, outside
ruling cliques, good humor,
fellowship, the power to endure
and to rise above circumstances
were the prevailing features of
our early history.
Historians are apt to picture
the convict years of our history
as the years of the dismal failure
of a sordid experiment. But one
has only to examine the long list
of names of ex-convicts and
convict descendants which
appears on the Australian Roll
of Fame great merchants,
statesmen, soldiers, pioneers—to
label the Botany Bay venture as
overall one of the most suc-
cessful social experiments in all
history.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
C—
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
No betting system can be suc-
cessfully followed, despite the
many claims to the contrary.
One scheme which has paid divi-
dens so far this season is the
backing of favorites and near-
favorites in Sydney two-year-old
races. Up till Saturday last 18
races for this age-group had
been decided. Favorites won
six, one equal-first fancy was
successful and three second-
favorites had been first to the
judge’s line.
Some punters make the early
two-year-old races each season
their best bets for the day. The
plan has invariably proved a
winner. Rankest outsider in
Sydney two-year-old events this
season was First Chapter, 66 to
1, in the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate,
but the only other juvenile
winner at odds longer than 9
to 1 was Grand Vite, 14 to 1,
in the Canonbury Stakes. Three
of the winners started at odds-
on.
Backers were again on the
spot at Randwick last Saturday,
when Blue Lilac, 5 to 4 on, and
Fun Fair 7 to 4 (second
favorite) were successful. In
Melbourne on the same day the
two-year-old events were both
won by odds-on favorites, Brave
Band and Yungawee.
Friday (off-course) prices
about horses often change over-
night, so it’s obvious that a cer-
tain section of privileged punters
back their fancy before they
reach the racecourse. This pre-
post betting, of course, is almost
as old as racing itself, and will
continue. For example, Winged
Glory, runner-up to Blue Lilac
in the Randwick Nursery Stakes
last Saturday, was pre-post
favorite for the race, but a
switch to Blue Lilac before bet-
ting began on the race saw the
latter an odds-on favorite after
6 to 4 had been laid in opening
bets. Winged Glory was a 3-to-
-1 shot. She was at 6 to 4 the
day before the race. No doubt
Neville Sellwood’s engagement
for Blue Lilac was the main rea-
son for the switch. It was just
as well he was in the saddle, as
Blue Lilac had little to spare at
the finish from Winged Glory,
who covered a lot of extra
ground.
Blue Lilac, a 400-guineas’
yearling, is trained at Canter-
bury by Ossie Pettit, who has
prepared hundreds of winners.
A few months ago he won
another two-year-old race with
Canute. Blue Lilac is by the
new imported sire Hunter’s
Moon, who has made a good
start in his first season. Dam of
the filly. Rubble, is by Plymouth
Sound (imp.) from Mock by
Valais (imp.) from Mocking
Bird by Popinjay.
Racing at Randwick threw no
additional light on Villiers pros-
pects, and Carioca, Forest Beau
and Tossing are still at the top
of quotes. Tossing was an ac-
ceptor for the Malabar Handi-
cap at Randwick, but was a
course withdrawal, so his ad-
mirers will have to await his
next appearance, which will be
his first since he ran fourth to
Oversight in the A.J.C. Final
Handicap. Tossing also is popu-
lar for the Summer Cup, but the
Christmas races are not far
away, and maybe Tossing will
be seen mainly as a Villiers
prospect.
Ocean Bound and Artois,
previously well fancied for the
Villiers, both shaped poorly last
Saturday, though both carried
superfluous flesh and are sus-
ceptible to improvement. Artois
finished sixth to La Hey, but
didn’t improve his position
much during the race. Ocean
Bound was hopelessly placed to
the home turn and beat a few
home. Both horses were well
backed, particularly Ocean
Bound, favorite at 9 to 4. He
is now raced by Arthur Murrell
and trained by Jack Mitchell.
The combination was surprised
at the short price on offer, as
the horse hadn’t raced since
early August. However, the
owner made several tidy wagers
on the four-year-old.
Chief attraction at the Albion
Park (Brisbane) meeting last
weekend was the Two Thousand
Handicap. It was won by
former Sydney-trained galloper
Highlea, a speedy High Caste
four-year-old gelding ridden by
top-ranking Brisbane jockey N.
Best. Highlea started favorite.
He has won several sprints, his
outstanding success being in the
Doomben Ten Thousand in
July last when trained by Plant.
On that occasion Highlea, rid-
den by Noel McGrowdie,
started at 50 to 1 and beat Mr.
Standby and the favorite. True
Leader. Highlea carried 9.5 to
victory at his latest effort and
maybe will soon be handicapped
out of Brisbane sprints.
• • • •
Sons and daughters of im-
ported Dhoti have enjoyed a
great winning run, especially in
Melbourne. Another of the
clan. Brave Band, was successful
in the First Pascoe Stakes at
Moonee Valley on Saturday.
The filly has three joint-owners.
Miss W. E. Kellow, Mrs. G. M.
Hedberg and E. A. Underwood
(one of the best-known racing
men in Australia). Brave Band
was at 10-to-9 on, while Yunga-
wee, winner of the Second
Pascoe Stakes, also was a warm
favorite, 5-to-4 on. Yungawee
has four owners, and is a
daughter of imported Empyrean
and Portskerrie by Caithness
(imp.) from -Clarehaven by
Lucknow (imp.).
An interesting winner at New-
castle’s latest fixture was Hunter
Valley, rather an appropriate
title. It was the colt’s first suc-
cess, but he won rather well,
and more successes should soon
come his way. Bought at the
Randwick yearling sales last
Easter for a modest 200 guineas,
he is by an English winner,
Culverhill, sire of several win-
ners, including Belle Silhouette.
Hunter Valley was the only
yearling by his sire offered at
the sale. The colt’s dam, Lady
Antog, winner of a number of
races in Melbourne, is a daughter
of Solar Bear (imp.) from im-
ported Bandiera by Blue En-
sign. Interest in the colt, apart
from his racing promise, is that
he is closely related to Valiant
Crown, easy winner of the 1947
A.J.C. Derby and other events.
Titian, a smart two-year-old, is
also in the pedigree.
Some horses cost a lot as
yearlings, but win little money.
Others of the higher-priced
group earn many thousands in
stakes, while some of the
cheapest lots have their names
high on the list of Australia’s
greatest winners. One of the
costly ones yet to return most of
his cost is four-year-old Chief
Host, raced by H. G. Whittle
and Jack King, who also is
“Now will you have your bath ?”
trainer. By A 1 Wassat (imp.), a
Hyperion sire, from the former
speedy Chaperone, Chief Host,
who cost 4000 guineas as a year-
ling, won a minor event, a
Second Novice, at Newcastle on
November 1, However, he is a
smart sprinter, and his owners
might soon land a more import-
ant event with him.
Horses improve suddenly from
week to week. Others lose form
almost as suddenly. One of the
improvers, Belshazzar, landed a
plunge in the Clovelly Handicap
at Randwick on Saturday, for
which he was backed from an
outside price to 6 to 1. Engage-
ment of Jack Thompson was a
wise move, because he rode the
Beau Son gelding with confi-
dence and sound judgment. A
week earlier Belshazzar had
finished several lengths away in
sixth place at Warwick Farm to
Magic Touch, but he was better
suited by the extra furlong ’ at
Randwick and the bigger
stretches, two important factors
when assessing prospects. Bel-
shazzar had been a disappoint-
ment to connections, but they
probably recovered losses as he
had been supported at prior
starts. The gelding is raced by
Cecil Green and trained by Cecil
Rolls. The two Cecils thus form
a successful racing combination.
Progeny of Actor (Fr.) gener-
ally stay a bit with age, and
Thespis, who hasn’t done much
racing, looks like developing into
a good-type middle-distance per-
former if his win in the Rand-
wick mile-and-a-half Novice can
be accepted as a guide. The
magic of Neville Sellwood
brought success. The stable put
up four pounds extra weight for
Sellwood, and the gelding carried
many good bets at 10 to 1, Some
punters rushed the early 7’s.
They were a bit impetuous but
naturally were quite happy over
the result. After all, any win-
ning price is a good price.
Randwick trainer Dan Lewis
had Thespis in his stable for a
season or more, but Jack Green
is now training the four-year-old
for V. J. McCarthy. Favorite for
the race, Midwood (5 to 4), ran
much below expectations, especi-
ally after his three successive
wins at provincial meetings.
Maybe he’s not a stayer. Jack
Thompson rode him hard, but
it was a fruitless task. Midwood
was one of the high-priced year-
lings of the Sydney autumn sales
in 1951. He cost 2500gns. He’s
a Delville Wood (imp.) colt from
Midsuma, by Midstream (imp.),
and is closely related to Count
Ito, winner of the V.R.C. New-
market in 1935.
Prominent Sydney owner E. R.
Williams must have been more
than a little disappointed over
the easy defeat of his handsome
colt Marino in Randwick
Juvenile Stakes by Fun Fair, who
was heavily backed to beat
Marino and did so quite effort-
lessly. Fun Fair had won at
Newcastle at his prior start, beat-
ing Sir Malcolm, while Marino
had been comfortably downed
at Warwick Farm by Culzean,
but had won two starts earlier
at Canterbury. Fun Fair is a
son of Scorpion (imp.) from
Grand Prudence, a mare bred
in 1943 by Le Grand Due (Fr.)
from Prudence, by Constant Son
(imp.). Bill Clancy, owner-
trainer of the colt, was sanguine
of success. Until a few months
ago he figured in racebooks only
as an owner, and the training
of some of his horses was done
by George Morrow. However,
he took out a licence and this
was his first Randwick success;
Fun Fair is the only horse he is
at present looking after.
The AJ.C. Summer Cup,
highlight of Boxing Day racing
at Randwick, has been a difficult
event for most of the higher-
weighted horses, though Persist
won with 8.12 last December,
Snowstream with 9.1 in 1949 and
Silent with 8.10 in 1947, All
other winners since 1933 had be-
tween 6.11 and 8.4 to carry,
most of them less than 7.6. This
year’s Cup has not attracted a
class field, only seven weighted
above 7.13. More than half the
entrants have been allotted less
than 6.11, so the lightweights
again appear to have much in
their favor. However, form dur-
ing the next few weeks will in-
dicate whether one of the higher-
weighted contenders will be a
chief danger. Davey Jones, top-
weight at 9.7, has gone to New
Zealand, so he’ll be off the scene.
Form at Randwick last Satur-
day was of little value from a
Summer Cup viewpoint, but
Thespis, winner of the Novice
with 7.8, has 6.7 in the more
important event. He might im-
prove and make the grade, but
the opposition will be tough,
* ♦ * ♦
N.S.W. overwhelmed Victoria
at Melbourne, by an innings and
35 runs. Victoria 347 (Loxton
169, C. McDonald 55 ; Lindwall
4-100, Miller 4-103) and 185
(Harvey 68 ; Burke 4-11); N.S.W.
567 (Barnes 152, De Courcy
110 n. 0., Burke 78, Morris 69,
Benaud 69 ; Johnson 5-127).
There was lively cricket in
both Brisbane and Adelaide last
weekend. Queensland, playing
S. Africa, amassed its highest
score (540) against an inter-
national side. Best individual
score was Tallon’s 133. Others
to bat entertainingly were Mc-
Cool, Toovey and R. Archer. In
Adelaide, after rain had pre-
vented play on Friday, both
sides were dismissed next day.
For N.S.W., fast-bowler Ray
Lindwall shone in the new role
for him of opening bat.
Before tackling Queensland,
South Africa took on a Queens-
land Country team at Bunda-
berg. The country team had
four or five State players, in-
cluding Tallon, who took four
catches. Another of ’em, Wilf
Brown, was at the wickets just
on four hours for 45! Queens-
land Country 8-251, closed
(Valleley 48 n.o. ; Mansell 4-76);
S. Africa 303 (Waite 133, Keith
72 n. 0.).
The brickbats that were here
tipped as sure to be hurled at
the Australian Test selectors
whoever was picked or left out
were duly delivered. Most came
from N.S.W. —mainly because
most of the selected .players
didn’t come from N.S.W. lan
Johnson’s selection has been
criticised, but there is no other
off-spinner of his class available.
The team is, despite all the
criticism, well-balanced, and all
members of it have performances
to justify their selection. Oppor-
tunities are to be given to other
candidates in an “Australian XI”
v. South Africa game in Sydney
after the First Test.
* * * ♦
Featherweights Ray Coleman
(8-12?) and Melburnian Van
Woods (8-13?) fought a sizzling
draw at Leichhardt, and the deci-
sion must have been a good one,
as present writer, who has fol-
lowed boxing closely for about
45 years, thought Coleman won,
while other experts gave Woods
a decided edge. Very like Jimmy
Carruthers in appearance, Woods
went into action right away, and
his left hooks piled up a points
lead for four rounds. Coleman
then kept connecting with the
same species of punch, and when
he also did plenty of damage
with right uppercuts in en-
counter eight, a points victory
seemed sure to be his, particu-
larly when Woods was fought
across the ring in round nine.
Ambrose Palmer, Woods’s man-
ager, advised his protege to
attack in the 10th, and both
scrappers turned on a round-long
exchange of red-hot toe-to-toe
slugging. Coleman’s right upper-
cut had Woods wobbling all over
the ring in round 12, and to this
onlooker he appeared to win well
on points. The draw decision
was given a great reception, how-
ever, and it might have been
nearer right than wrong.


dsf
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a tac-
tion ol their cost. The
''National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typinq. Writing, Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely l * Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
V ELBOUKNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd-
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PEKTH .. ..Docket Book do. (Ausfc)
OLlNDA—Victoria
“BIROHLBIGH” —Children’s Guest House.
Children 6-9 years during school holidays.
Other times any age. Spacious gardens
with adequate equipment and supervision.
School near-by for long-term bookings.
MISSES FRASER —Telephone Olinda SO.
Been There Yet?
The Not-So-Dead Heart
By ELISABETH MACINTYRE
Mention of the crowds
of artists, writers and film-
makers giving Centralia
a thorough doing-over,
in Douglas Stewart’s article
“Films for Birdsville” (B.
5/11 /’52), reminds me of when,
in 1950, my husband and I went
on a painting trip around Alice
Springs.
At Adelaide everyone thought
we were being very rash to drive
to Marree, instead of putting the
car on the train at Quorn, and
we set off feeling as brave as
John McDouall Stuart himself.
People had said “Goodbye! ” in
a very final sort of way, I
thought, and they “Hoped every-
thing would be all right” in the
tone of voice which made it clear
that they didn’t believe such a
thing possible.
The cosy South Australian
farming country thinned out
after about a hundred miles, and
after Quorn the landscape
definitely took a turn for the
harsher and bleaker. This was
just as we would have it, and
we beamed as we looked around
us. This was the real thing at
last; we felt we were really right
out at the back of nowhere now,
though on a good road, recently
graded.
The second night we camped
out. Right out in the Flinders
Ranges. After pitching the tent,
unfolding the camp furniture,
and putting the pressure-cooker
on to cook, we climbed the
nearest hill to see the sun set.
The pink and gold and orange
mountains folded in behind each
other as far as one could see in
every direction. I
felt awed, and a
little bit scared to
think of our being
alone out in the
middle of it all,
so far from signs
of life and human
habitation.
I needn’t have
worried. The rail-
way-line was just
around the
corner, and we
were kept awake
at night by trains
shrieking past.
We went on. The main excite-
ments along the way were
marked on the map, which was
just as well, for otherwise we
might have missed them. “Gate
and Ramp” would have been
passed unnoticed, as “Ramp”
was long since filled in and
covered over with sand, and
“Gate,” a mangled twist of iron,
had been tossed to one side.
Eight miles further on might be
marked “Creek,” where the track
would take a slight dip and go
over softer, drier sand than the
rest. You could generally tell a
creek not by the water, because
there wasn’t any, but by the
river-gums growing along its
course.
Five miles away there might
be the name of a town marked
on the map. You would look
around when you got to it, and,
surely enough, over there by the
railway-line you would see the
name up on a board. Or it might
be a real town, with a pub, a
couple of buildings, a windmill
and a broken-down car, perhaps,
and a large rubbish-tip, all
huddled together out on the bare
red plain, with nothing all the
way around but the faint wind-
ing track in the dust, and the
railway-line disappearing into the
distance.
There never was such dust. It
billowed in, around and under
the car-doors and -windows,
thick clouds of it came rolling up
from under the floorboards.
Everything one touched was
through a thick woolly glove of
it.
Late in the afternoon, when
the sun was shining in our faces,
making the sand, stones and
beer-bottles along the way gleam
and glitter like jewels, we
growled up a steep rise in low-
gear, swerved at the top to miss
a rock, skidded and plunged deep
down into the sand, soft and
unresisting as sugar. The wheels
spun around helplessly, and, by
the time we had hopped out, the
truck was buried up to its
bumper-bars.
This was the sort of crisis we
had been warned about, and my
blood froze. But, before we had
poured the last drops from our
waterbag down our parched
throats, scratched our wills on
a blackened billycan and gone
off to “do a perish,” the tyres
were deflated, mats placed in
front of them and in ten minutes
we were on our way again.
Finally we pulled up at
Marree, thickly coated with dust
and smugly conscious of the
long, arduous journey that lay
behind us. If anyone had asked,
we would have been only too
willing to tell of how we had
suffered and what we had been
through on our long, lonely trip.
Nobody wanted to know; but
someone pointed out to us, as a
matter of interest, a young attrac-
tive-looking girl who had
arrived not half-an-hour before
we had.
She had done the whole
journey alone and on a bicycle.
The entire town turned out to
see the train arrive next day.
Families of blacks, whites,
Afghans, etc., arrived early, as
if for a picture-show. Gangs of
little boys, all colors, snooped
about peering at everything.
Others just stood in groups,
staring and whispering.
The train was packed full; the
tourist season had begun. We
were lucky to get seats in a
crowded second-class carriage,
with several black stockmen
travelling on the platform
behind.
There was a stampede over
from the pub when the whistle
blew and the train started. Men
hurried across the road at ,a swift
lope, as fast as they could go,
festooned with bottles of beer,
which were tucked under each
arm, into each pocket and hung
in bunches from each hand.
They ran alongside the train
until it relented, stopped and let
them clamber on. This good
joke was played by the engine-
driver, and thoroughly appre-
ciated by the other, non-drinking
passengers.
Our carriage was the sort with
a seat along each wall, and we
faced each other as if around a
campfire. This seemed particu-
larly apt, as a tougher, more
backwoodsy lot of characters I
never have seen outside a Wild
West film. They wore a kind of
fancy-dress which included wide-
brimmed hats (brims rakishly
curled), lumberjackets and tight-
fitting trousers, with luggage of
valises, haversacks and rolled-up
swags.
Except for a neat suburban-
looking little woman who sat
beside me (I couldn’t think what
she was doing, right outback like
this), they all looked real old-
timers. They didn’t talk much,
and their eyes were all screwed-
up as if gazing into distant
horizons, just as they are always
described in books. As they sat
there I could see them crouched
on their heels, waiting for their
quart-pots to boil . . . Perched
up on an old wagon . . . slouched
in their saddles, jogging along
behind a thousand-head of
cattle . . drovers, stockmen, or
prospectors with teams of
camels.
The train rattled and thumped
its way over the flat, tedious
landscape, and, during the next
few days, I chatted quite a lot
with the quiet little woman beside
me. She was very interesting.
Having lived in the Territory all
her fife, she knew all there was
to be known about the North.
She had been on the train a day
longer than we had, so I leant
over and asked her, in a loud
whisper, who our companions
were.
“The loveliest lot of chaps,”
she hissed. “All from the city.
One writes for the papers, one is
a photographer and the others
have come up after jobs.”
We travelled up on the ’Ghan,
and the car was to follow on the
Chaser, which chased along in a
leisurely way and showed up
about 24 hours later. Quite a
crowd went to see it
arrive and unload,
as if it were a
circus-train ; it was
not unlike one.'
About a quarter of
a mile of flat
trucks, all with
vehicles: big shiny
streamlined cars,
cars with caravans
or trailers, jeeps,
large Army-trucks,
fussy little baby-
cars, all tied on with stout bits
of rope, all looking foolish and
sejfconscious.
At the Alice everyone says that
the thing to do is to go up on to
Anzac Hill to see the sun rise.
They are most emphatic about it.
“Seen the sunrise?” they ask
anxiously. Then they “Tut, tut!”
in a disapproving way, and
describe the whole scene, dwel-
ling on the transient, glowing
colors the ranges take on in the
first rays of sunlight. Mauve,
pink, orange, blue, purple, etc.,
a sight nobody should miss.
So, early next morning, we
followed the trail of tourist-maps
and leaflets scattered along the
road up to the hill, and stood
shivering in the half-light.
There was another woman up
there, impatiently waiting for
the ranges to turn orange, pink.
scarlet, gold, etc., and we chatted
as we waited.
“Been to Simpson’s Gap?” she
inquired.
“No.”
“Oh, you shouldn’t miss that!
The most fascinating of all the
local scenic sites. Colorful rock
formations, with an icy pool set
amidst towering cliffs. A
memory you will always cherish.
Have you seen Standley
Chasm?”
“Not yet.”
“A delightful drive for 35
miles through Heavitree and
Chewings Ranges. Standley
Chasm is a gigantic split in the
Chewings Ranges, with towering
cliffs narrowing at the base to
18ft. wide. Have you been to
Hermannsburg or”
We admitted we hadn’t, and
excused ourselves by saying we
hadn’t been there very long. Not
nearly as long as she had.
“I just arrived on the plane
yesterday,” she beamed, “but
I’ve been reading these leaflets
about the tours. Half-day, day,
or two or three days. Meals and
accommodation provided. I’m
going to England next month
and I suddenly decided to see
Australia first, so I have come
up for a week to have a peep at
the real outback!”
By then the sun, which had
risen behipd a thick bank of
clouds, shone for a minute
before disappearing again.
We watched the shades of
pale-pink, pale-mauve, pale-blue,
pale-orange, etc., flicker wanly
across the ranges. Said
“Beautiful. Beau-u-u-utiful! ”
Then hurried down the hill and
back to breakfast.
When you arrive at Alice
Springs you lose no time in going
out to see the —well, not so much
the ranges as where the ranges
aren’t. What you go to see are
the Gaps. Huge red gashes like
gateways through the surround-
ing walls of rock, where, it is
said, the great inland sea forced
its way out, a very long time
ago.
We saw Heavitree Gap, lessie
Gap, Simpson’s Gap, Honey-
moon Gap, Temple Bar Gap and
Emily Gap. Emily is noted for
having real Aboriginal Rock
Drawings, and a big flat stone
that they used for their Tribal
Rites and Initiation Ceremonies
—too secret for you or me to
know anything about. As well as
all that, we were told to keep our
eyes open for “artefacts,” primi-
five native weapons
patiently chipped out of
rock by those vanished
stone-age men.
We saw the drawings
and the flat stone, but,
though we climbed high
on to the ridge and
hunted for quite a time,
we found no artefacts.
What we did find,
though, were two plas-
tic tumblers, one with
a picture of Winnie-the-
Pooh on it, the other
with the Three Little
Pigs.
We went everywhere,
and everywhere we
went we met people
going click! click!
click! with cameras,
people painting pictures
and people jotting notes
in little notebooks (of
these it was said, in
hushed, respectful voices, that
they were Writing a Book).
It was all very lovely, but
deep down, did we have a slight
feeling of disappointment? Was
it that the Dead Centre wasn’t
as dead as it was made out to
be?
Perhaps we hadn’t gone far
enough outback. So we loaded-
up with water, stocked-up with
provisions, procured a permit to
travel over a native reserve, and
drove to Haast Bluff, about a
hundred miles out. We followed
a “mud map” drawn on a bit of
brown-paper, and got right out
into the middle of it all. Over
creeks, dried-up lake-beds, over
saltbush plains and rocky out-
crops, We got bogged in the
sand and punctured by mulga
sticks. It was heavy going, but
we got there.
We were enchanted.
At last we were out in the
very Centre. Here was the
country as fresh and unspoiled
as when wild tribes of nomad
blacks roamed and hunted there.
Old. Old. Old. Like a
shrivelled-up old blackfellow,
waiting to die. Like a tortoise.
Like one of those prehistoric-
looking lizards. Old and
bleached, dried - up and
crumbling away. Old, washed-
out-looking colors. Fossilised
trunks of twisted cork-trees, bare
bleached bones of ghost gums.
Dried-up waterholes with dead
kangaroos about. Remote and
timeless, just as it would be like
up inside the moon.
On the way back, after about
a fortnight, we camped at the
Finke River on the way into
Palm Valley. That evening we
walked along where the pink,
rounded hills covered with
spinifex folded in behind each
other and the rugged outcrops
of red rock and purple table-
top hills scribbled their way off
into the distance.
A cloud of black cockatoos
flew overhead, a ’roo bounded
out of sight. We followed the
river along, turned a corner.
And there, what should we
see but a town of neatly laid-out
little tourist tents and a large
blue bus. The first people we
saw were two old friends of
ours. Charming, conservative
elderly ladies from one of
Sydney’s cosier suburbs.
“Hel-LO!” they greeted us
without much surprise. “YOU
here, too!”


inn eli
sd
time will rinir
Executor have for i/oiii* affairs;?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet;
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
G. Moncrieff Barron,O.B-E.,M.8.Ch.M.,F.R.A.C.5.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
G. B. Kaier.
Manager : N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary : P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF
23-35 O’CONNELL
N.S.W. LIMITED
STREET, SYDNEY
PT.61.15
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HOW J. BULL FAILED IN PERSIA
A report in Edinburgh “Scots-
man” has indicated that even if
the Communist Tudeh party now
ousts Moussadek and takes over
in Persia, J. Bull won’t lift a
finger.
The report stated that that was
accepted as present British Gov-
ernment policy. Rather more
surprisingly, the report added
that neither would Uncle Sam
intervene.
If, however, Ivan lent a hand
from the north these bets would
be off.
So, probably, there is a
definite historical finality in a
London “Times” designation of
Britain’s recent record there as
“a failure.” Accepting the
failure as complete and unalter-
able, the “Times” has dispas-
sionately reviewed the record,
finding it useful at such a
moment of defeat to * consider
“the implications of this dispute
which has led to the almost total
exclusion of British activities
and influence from a country
where they were traditionally
strong” :
“Students of power politics
are entitled to say that setbacks
of this kind were rendered prob-
able when the British empire in
India was relinquished.
“British power and influence,
emanating and spreading out
from India, had maintained the
rudiments of order in the region
of the Persian Gulf. When
India and Pakistan gained their
independence an excellent
move in itself —this power was
impaired and nothing was im-
provised to take its place.
“Nationalist movements in
the Middle Eastern countries
gained fresh impetus at the
same time. The national States
themselves—whether new (like
Irak and Saudi Arabia) or old
and decayed (like Persia) —grew
in consciousness of their status
and sovereignty. British enter-
prises in the region were left
dependent on local goodwill.
Henceforth, if they ran into
trouble there was no British
strength in the background ready
to protect them
“When the Anglo-Iranian Oil
Company was threatened with
expulsion the Labor Government
moved warships, flew a brigade
to Cyprus, announced that ‘our
intention is not to evacuate en-
tirely,’ and spoke bravely of
accepting ‘all the implications
that follow from that decision.’
They were repeating a routine
that had given results in many
earlier crises, but this time with-
out having foreseen the problem
in its modern guise or faced the
‘implications.’
“It was not simply that a
resort to force was impractic-
able. There was no conviction
in this country [Britain] or in
the other free countries con-
cerned in this region of the
world that to seek a solution by
force, against surgent national-
ism, was nowadays right or
likely to be fruitful. So, when
the test came, it was the will of
Dr. Moussadek that prevailed.
“The oil company has re-
vealed enough of its dealings
with Persian Governments since
1948 to show that it did offer
reasonable terms and did try to
work out with the Persians a
new agreement which they
would freely accept. It failed
because Persian nationalism was
already out of hand. No one
can confidently say that the
same generosity would have
avoided the crisis if it had been
shown earlier. Yet there is a
general lesson to be drawn for
British policy towards British
investments abroad..
“The Anglo-Iranian company
has never paid out excessive
sums to its shareholders, but it
has for many years paid very
large sums in British taxes —fat
more than it paid in royalties to
Persia, as the Persians are never
tired of pointing out. In its last
year of uninterrupted operation
the company paid £7,112,000 in
preference and ordinary divi-
dends, £l6m. to the Persian Gov-
ernment in royalty (this might
have been £32,500,000 if the
Persians had chosen), and more
than £som. in income tax and
profits tax to the British Trea-
sury.
“Excessive taxation is capable
of destroying British oversea
investments anywhere, whether
by crippling their competitive
strength or by feeding national
resentment against them. Oil
companies in particular com-
pete for goodwill in the oil-
bearing countries, and those that
bear the heaviest taxation at
home are the most severely
handicapped... ..Their Govern-
ments, which do not in these
days support them with force,
can help them to be strong and
flexible. This may mean some
sacrifice of revenue.
“The British failure in Persia
was a failure of the Labor Gov-
ernment. By the time the pre-
sent Government took office a
year ago no more than a sal-
vage operation was possible. It
may be that the wreck was
already too complete even for
salvage.
“Yet it cannot be said that
even in the past year British
foreign policy has seemed fully
to understand the character of
the dispute with which it had to
deal.
“Dr. Moussadek, though he
used his country’s economic
grievances against Britain to the
full and exaggerated them with-
out scruple, has throughout been
impelled by political motives un-
connected with economics. His
purpose is to make Persia
‘neutral’ in the conflicts of world
Powers by excluding foreign in-
fluence from his country. This
purpose implies a change in the
international position of Persia,
and in order to secure it Dr.
Moussadek was fully prepared
to break his country’s con-
tractual engagements as well as
to wreck the oil industry,
“To lecture him on the prin-
ciples of law —as so many
British Notes have lectured him
—does not move him, because
he regards such principles as the
fetters which strong Powers use
to keep weak Powers helpless
The British case is the case
for law and order. But, of itself,
it can neither outweigh a sup-
posed economic grievance nor
cause a revolutionary movement
to halt in its course,”
Kenya's Kenyatta
A London “Daily Telegraph”
report from Kenya on the
troubles there mentioned how the
Kikuyu “independent” schools
London “Daily Express”
“ YOU’VE GOT TO SUPPORT ME—I'M A BARRIER
AGAINST COMMUNISM ”
have acted as agencies for the
spread of that compound of race-
hatred and mumbo - jumbo
known as Mau Mau. The report
brought from Elspeth Huxley
a contribution describing how
the British have allowed 4hese
schools to flourish and, especi-
ally, giving a personal account
of the British-educated ring-
leader:
“In Kenya it has been well
known for years that these
schools, exempt from Govern-
ment and Mission control, have
been spreading the precepts of
Jomo Kenyatta. Through his
control of the Githinguru train-
ing college, whence most of the
‘independent’ teachers come, he
has used this network of bush
schools to indoctrinate the com-
ing generation of Kikuyu.
“I first knew Kenyatta some
15 years ago, when he was an
intermittent student at the Lon-
don School of Economics, study-
ing anthropology. He was a man
of exceptionally magnetic per-
sonality ; with his pointed beard,
glittering eye and fluent tongue
he put me in mind of the Ancient
Mariner before he grew old and
learnt the danger of blood-sports
at sea, I enjoyed his company ;
and regarded him as clever (even
brilliant), unscrupulous, ruthless
and obsessed by ambition.
“About this time he became a
Communist, and, during his stay
in England, lasting through the
war, he was associated with
various anti-imperialist, pan-
African movements supported
by the Soviet Union.
“It was obvious to all that he
did nojt return to Kenya in 1946
with the idea of cultivating roses.
The Government, well aware of
this, at first tried to woo him
with membership .of committees,
but he withdrew into a kind of
ebony tower, refusing to frater-
nise with white folk. Last time
I was in Kenya I did not meet
him, as I was told by some of
his African friends that he did
not receive Europeans.
“I heard him speak, however,
and was greatly impressed by his
powers—not so much of oratory
as of holding a meeting spell-
bound and subjecting the mass-
will to his own. Through his
training college, the Kenya
African Union and the academi-
cally deplorable schools, he has
profoundly influenced a whole
generation of Kikuyu, and it
would be useless to expect that
influence to fail just because he
has been locked up.
“Jomo Kenyatta, it seems to
me, is in some respects a small-
scale African Hitler There is
the same gift of words, the same
instinctive skill in twisting truth
and the same belief in magic
and spells—accentuated in Ken-
yatta’s case by his African back-
ground. Both called themselves
nationalists, but used nationalism
as a tool. I hope nationalist
sympathisers here [Britain] will
not fall into the trap of regard-
ing the Mau Mau movement
merely as a crude expression of
legitimate grievances, to be cured
by political change. There are
grievances, of course. Germany
had grievances, too. Appeasing
Hitler did not cure them; nor
will appeasing the Kikuyu, so
long as they nourish the Mau
Mau.
“Meanwhile, Kenyatta is with-
drawn from circulation and the
Kenya Government is to close
some, at least, of the ‘indepen-
dent’ schools. (Click goes that
stable door!) But five years is
a long start —too long. The
question arises: shouldn’t a
Government, which sees an early
Hitler or Kenyatta at work, be
armed with powers to stop him
before dozens, hundreds or it
may be millions of people are
slaughtered, instead of aftei-
wards?”
The Mail Mau Oath
The oath taken by initiates of
the East African terrorist society
of the Mau Mau, translated in
a London “Times” report:
“If I am asked to bring the
head of a European and I refuse,
this oath will kill me. If I am
called at any time during the
night and do not go, this oath
will kill me. If I reveal any
secrets of Africans who are Mau
Mau members, this oath will kill
me. If I am called during the
night and I am naked I will go
naked. If I see anyone stealing
European property I will not tell
about it, instead I will assist him
to hide it; if I refuse, this oath
will kill me. If the members
agree to do anything, whether
good or bad, and I refuse to
obey, this oath will kill me.”
Too Many Japs
“An old troublemaker —too
many people-—is back plaguing
Japan again in its first year of
regained freedom. Overpopula-
tion, the country’s excuse for
starting past wars, is worse than
ever now.”
In the assessment of “U.S.
News and World Report,” it
means a mighty headache for
Uncle Sam in “trying to convert
Japan into a strong and friendly
bulwark against the Communists
in Asia.”
“In 1936,” it is pointed out,
“there were 68 million Japanese.
By the end of World War II the
population had reached 72 mil-
lion. Now there are 85 million
people crowded into present-day
Japan —four islands with a total
area no larger than California.
At the present rate the popula-
tion will reach 92 million by
1960.
“Without massive help from
the U.S., how can Japan feed,
clothe and shelter this much-
rooming population? How can
it find jobs for the 700,000 men
and women who are reaching
working age each year? Nobody
has been able to come up with
an answer.
“The Japanese now have less
food and clothing and poorer
housing than before World War
11. Although farm and indus-
trial production are above pre-
war levels, the standard of living
is lower. And, so far as any-
body can see, the situation is
going to grow worse steadily.
“Each year there will be a
million more mouths to feed and
thousands more people looking
for jobs. Simply to stay even,
the Japanese must boost produc-
tivity at least 2 per cent, every
year. That means new markets
and more exports —or new and
large-scale aid from the United
States.
“Officials working with the
problem regard it as the most
dangerous element in a country
that is relied on by the U.S. as
a friendly outpost of Western
defences in Asia. Overpopula-
tion was the pretext for Japan’s


VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870, After Hours, BJ 1957.
AIDING All STRALIA’S ADVANCE No. 6of a serlts,
wsr
w.
nj
&
Cr
IT:
111
>-rJ
r~-
w
n
iU
Store Lighting
Display and Window Lighting
and the
Part of the
Associated
British Oil
Engines x&roup
... now
producing the
largest number
of industrial
diesel engines
in the world.
(NATIONAL
As a major outlet for the products of Australia’s huge
woollen industry and for thousands of other manufactured lines,
the retail store plays an all-important part in the nation’s progress.
At Farmer’s, Sydney—one of Australia’s largest Department Stores,
with over 12 acres of floor space and 180 different departments—
service to the buying public is maintained, despite zoned days and
blackouts, by lighting and power generated by two diesel engines
supplied and installed by BOEAUST (illustrated below) —a 600
r.p.m. TL4 “Mirrlees” and a 1,000 r.p.m. M 5 “McLaren”, each
direct coupled to Brush alternators, total output 263KVA.
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A’ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence St., Sydney e 368 Collins St., Melbourne e Distributors in all States
seizure of Manchuria and few
attempts to conquer vast chunks
of Asia in the 1930’s and 1940’5.
Now Japan—stripped of its out-
lying possessions after World
War II —is a much smaller
country with millions more
people.
“Against this background is
the recent remark of a Japanese
industrialist in Osaka; ‘We will
not starve quietly.’ ”
Tito's Free Land
In London “Times’s” sum-
ming-up, Yugoslavia’s revolt
against Stalinist Communism
means “not a return to capitalist
economics but an original
attempt to combine Marxist
Socialism with the devolution
of economic power.
“To the Yugoslav leaders the
centralised bureaucratic order
of the Soviet economy is a
Stalinist heresy. They are feel-
ing their way towards a more
flexible system. In their search
Adam Smith is summoned to
the aid of Karl Marx.
“Yet the search leaves Yugo-
slavia in domestic policy as well
as in international associations
wholly distinct and different
from any State in the Atlantic
group. Relations with Yugo-
slavia have to be worked out
anew and are unlikely to follow
any existing pattern. Yet as the
implications of her independ-
ence make themselves felt it be-
comes plain that they can be
close and fruitful.
“Not only the Government
but the people, too, have tasted
the relief of liberation, and their
frank disgust at the thought of
any return of Soviet influence
leaves no doubt that nothing,
short of forcible change, would
now make them turn back.”
Why U.S. Leads
Explained in “Foreign
Affairs” by Richard M. Bissell,
former Marshall Plan deputy
administrator;
“Perhaps the most funda-
mental fact about the position
of the United States in the
world is that its greatest com-
parative advantage over the
Soviet bloc, and indeed over any
other great Power or Powers, is
its economic strength.
“The basic data are familiar
enough. After all, the United
States has only 6 per cent, of
the world’s area and 6 per cent,
of its population. In both
respects it is considerably in-
ferior to the Soviet Union alone,
to say nothing of the whole
Communist bloc. The United
States is also probably weaker
in its possession of basic re-
sources. The report of the
President’s Materials Policy
Commission has made it clear
that this country will depend in-
creasingly upon the rest of the
world for imports of petroleum,
iron-ore and most of the non-
ferrous metals.
“The reason, and the sole
reason, therefore, that the
United States today is the
strongest single nation in the
world is that it has accumu-
lated an unparalleled structure
of capital assets and has so
raised the productivity of its
population that its economic
strength, no matter how mea-
sured, is incomparably greater
than that of the Soviet bloc.”
Various Voices
Duke of Edinburgh : “We
often hear nowadays that the
traditional British craftsman no
longer exists. That is quite un-
true. In the engineering labora-
tories and workshops, and in the
research and development de-
partments of the factories, the
standard of craftsmanship is as
high as ever.”
General Templer: “Respon-
sible self-government is certainly
going to be given to Malaya,
for this is the declared aim of the
British Government. I hope and
believe that this new Malaya will
elect to take its place within
the British Commonwealth of
Nations,”
Arthur Deakin, general sec-
retary, British Transport and
General Workers’ Union: “The
people who advocate industrial
action for political purposes to-
day don’t really mean to use it
only when a Tory Government
is in office. They want to use
it at any time and every time,
regardless of the color of the
Government, when it suits their
purpose and particular views to
do so. There is no future in
the trade-union movement if it
seeks to destroy the fabric of
democratic government.”
Harry Earnshaw, chairman of
Britain’s Labor-party confer-
ence: “However much we need
to expand our welfare services,
f there can be no great expansion
unless we earn enough to pay
for them.”
Henry Price, British Conserve
five M.P.: “A politician think
in terms of the next election:
statesman in terms of the nex
generation.”
Geoffrey Bing, British Socialist
M.P., on a real crisis: “Barclay’s
India Pale Ale only exceeds by
.6 of one per cent, of alcoho]
the strength of beer which was
permitted in the United States
during Prohibition.” [p.s. Lon-
don “Times” reports latest
figures showing convictions for
drunkenness in England and
Wales at their highest since
1938.]
Lord Balfour of Inchrye:
“Our [sterling area’s] prospects
of earning lie not in exporting
manufacturers’ goods to coun-
tries like the U.S., but in export-
ing raw materials which are to
be found in abundance in the
British Commonwealth.”
Lord Mancroft: “Too many
United States businessmen regard
the dollar as invincible and the
pound as dead. Nothing could
be worse for Anglo-American
trade than this legend. One day
the Americans may really neec
to sell to the British some of the
raw materials which the work
is now tripping over itself to
buy. The Americans are going
to look a little uncomfortable i:
by then the height of their
present tariff wall has driven
their best British customers into
the bankruptcy courts.”
Mrs. Eisenhower (in an inter-
view) : “Ike is such a good cook
we could never think of buying
a home that didn’t have a kitchen
big enough for him to use with
comfort.”
Sevan, on the British Labor
party’s “aliveness”: “Of course,
there are no differences inside
the Conservative party ; there is
none inside a graveyard, either.
We are alive and growing, and
when you are growing you get
growing pains.”
Field-Marshal Sir William
Slim: “In the British Army to-
day all headquarters are too big,
including the War . Office
Headquarters have a habit of
growing. You get duplication,
much too much paper. You ge
what I call rackets —plausible
young men who run something
which is not very important—
and you get overburdened with
transport.”
David Gammans ( Assistant-
Postmaster in Britain’s Conserva-
tive Government ); “It is not
necessary to make long-winded
speeches about the meaning of
the quarrel between Mr. Attlee
and Mr. Bevan. It is a question
of simple algebra :
A (ttlee) - B (evan) = B A=
C (ommunism).”
Clement Davies, leader of the
British Liberal party: “Politi-
cians are more concerned with
fighting one another and abusing
one another than they are with
solving these tremendous prob-
lems which are confronting this
country In the Labor party
they have exhausted all their
words of abuse for the Tories,
so now they have started upon
abusing one another. The
Socialist party today is like a
hedgehog, rolled the wrong way,
tormenting itself with its
prickles.”


HANOMAG
R 45
eve** MOR€ mw
e
/ Factor
TRACTOR a
TRACTOR 8
HANQM4G I
tractor d f
Wtf/IMI
■WWM
«.p.
lbs
mil
irking
fuel
Mr 11st gear
O.P.H.
w\\ at these
50
37
6000
field tests
\pROVt
2.21
29.8
1.7 9
45
5830
42.24
49
40.42
6367
2.66
In the original performance comparison
chart shown above, the Hanomag 1\45
draw-bar pull was shown as 5,830 lbs.
Since then, more official field tests have
ascertained that THIS FIGURE WAS
WRONG. The pull is actually 6,722 lbs.,
using standard wheels without ballast!
Hanomag is by far the most powerful,
most economical tractor in its field. WEE
SAVINGS ALONE CAN SAVE VOU
£3
6722 ibs.
draw-bar pull j
in first gear .
SPECTACULAR LOW PRICE
£lBOO
fOR LIMITED PERIOD
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. PTY. LTD.
243-47 Cleveland Street, Redfern, N.S.W. ’Phone MX4121
Contact your Local Agent:
QUEENSLAND: Demco Machinery Co.
(Q'land) Ltd., c/o Box 93b, G.P.0., Brisbane,
VICTORIA: Demco Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
355 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Shipp Bass., Hilton Rd., -
Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: E. & Hos) Hancock, 59
Lord St.. Perth.
Please forward, without obligation, full
details of the Hanomag R 45 Tractor,
NAME
ADDRESS
-2346
established IS6S
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC POINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
'jACKSOM s v
osiimivan
BRISBANE
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
asked Inkins as they went to-
wards the kitchen.
“Nary a mark, Peter.”
“And ye, Mistress?” The
man spoke pointedly at the not-
unattractive wife of his neigh-
bor. “Ye be all right?”
“Indeed I am,” said Martha
lightly, blushing nevertheless.
WHEN they were eating
hot scones covered with
dripping and salt, and after
Martha had prepared a pot of
China tea, Peter allowed himself
full rein.
“There be a lot of sympathy
for this Entwhistle,” he said as
he munched. “Folk say he were
driv to th’ bush, and that Guv’-
nor Darlin’s men be fair
tyrants. But it’ll go hard wi’
th’ rebels, because soldiers ha’
been killed. Dang me if some
of th’ rascals haven’t been con-
fessin’ to all sorts of things they
didn’t do. That’s why I be
thinkin’ they took all your pigs
an’ flour.” ,
“That is the trouble,” com-
mented Martha. “Tales grow
and grow as they travel in these
parts. Maybe if folk didn’t wag
their tongues so freely other folk
wouldn’t be harmed. Perhaps
if folk told the truth about
Master Entwhistle, the convicts
might not be given the lash.”
She was thinking of the cruel
weals on Jem’s back as she
spoke.
“They’ll be lucky to on’y get
th’ lash. Mistress,” declared the
visitor as he rose to go. “More
likely they’ll be gettin’ th’ rope,
an’ when bushrangers are to be
strung up by th’ neck few will
come forward wi’ a good word,
though I reckon a good word
helps a lot. I alwis try to put in
a good word as best I can.”
When Gossiping Peter rode
away waving to Martha and
Jem the husband went back to
his garden fence and Martha
her kitchen. But both were rest-
less in conscience. Being God-
fearing, each wondered if it
were possible that testimony
from them might lessen what-
ever punishment was in store
for the outlaws, especially Ent-
whistle. At supper-time Jem
broached the subject which he
had been turning over in his
mind.
“Martha,” he said solemnly,
putting down his tin pannikin,
“it is our duty as Christians to
try to help Ralf Entwhistle and
his men with a good word. Per-
haps if we go to the settlement
and see the parson he might put
us right.”
Martha was more farseeing.
“It might be dangerous. The
settlers may not be mindful of
good deeds done in their pre-
sent mood. They might be sus-
picious of you, husband.”
“We are settlers, too,” he re-
minded gently. “There may be
more like us.”
The more they talked the
greater became Jem’s determina-
tion to interview the parson.
“It is our duty,” he affirmed
finally. And so it was decided.
AS they walked into the small
township they observed two
groups of people, one large, the
other small. The latter was near
a store, and Jem espied Gossip-
ing Peter Inkins almost simul-
taneously with their neighbor’s
recognition of them.
“Blast me if it’s not Jem
Harkins and his good wife,”
shouted Peter boisterously. After
shaking hands he hurried on in
lower tones, but so that all could
hear: “I jest this minute told
th’ neighbors how ye give Ralf
Entwhistle an’ his rebels two
bags of flour an’ a boar.”
He tossed back his shaggy
head and laughed uproariously,
while several others did likewise.
“As if th’ bushrangers
wouldn’t ha’ took what they
wanted!” As he passed the last
remark Inkins eyed the woman
in such an open fashion that her
face surged with color. Jem’s
right hand clenched the musket
he was carrying until the
knuckles showed white.
Before her husband could
interject Martha, in simple
fashion, turned the conversation
adroitly against Inkins.
“Well, I didn’t give them
cakes, Master Inkins, or make
each of them a pot of fresh
China tea. Be sure of that.”
“I think we had better look
for the clergyman, Martha,”
said Jem, facing his wife, who,
accepting the hint, commenced
to move away. But’ Gossiping
Peter saved them the trouble of
searching,
“If ye be lookin’ for th’ par-
son, Jem, ye won’t find him at
his house. He may be at th’
hangin’! ”
“The hanging?”
“Aye, th’ bangin’,” repeated
Peter. “Ten o’ th’ rebels. The
ringleaders. Entwhistle’s among
’em.”
In shocked amazement at this
sudden dashing of their good
intentions, Harkins looked
slowly from face to face, finally
returning his worried eyes to
Peter’s bearded countenance.
“But the trial, man. What
about the trial? Only yesterday
you told Martha and me that
the convicts were rounded up.
You didn’t mention a trial.”
“True for ye. I didn’t know,
Jem,” replied Inkins. “But ten
o’ th’ rascals had been tried and
sentenced. Biggest batch ever t’
be strung up this side o’ th’
range,” he added.
Horrified, Martha turned to
the large group of settlers and
military officers two or three
hundred yards distant, whom
she knew now to be gathered
around the rough scaffold.
“Was no appeal allowed?”
persisted Jem, inclined to be-
lieve that the prisoners would
have been given that right.
“Why, m’lad, ’twould take a
horseman two weeks t’ ride t’
Sydney Town an’ back t’ get
Guv’nor Darlin’s consent for a
new trial..or sommart like that.
But tell me, would ye be askin’
Darlin’ for anythin’, let alone
th’ life o’ a convict bushranger?”
He was about to add something
for Jem’s personal benefit when
a shout from the other group of
men caused a young man near
by to exclaim:
“They be swingin’ th’ rest of
them now!”
Harkins was shaking at the
legs as he led his wife aside.
“You stay here, Martha,” he
said hoarsely. “I will try and
find the parson.”
“It is too late,” she said
brokenly, shaking her head.
“But we did our best for the
poor men.”
PRESSING her hand affec-
-1 tionately, Jem left and ven-
tured towards the crowd
gathered in front of the scaffold.
“Has Ralf Entwhistle been
hanged yet?” he asked a flaxen-
haired settler who was standing
near the outer fringe of the
human circle. In spite of his
dejection, Harkins observed that
the settler’s eyes did not leave
the raised platform where
officials were busy preparing for
the man who was to be the
rope’s last victim that day.
“He went early,” replied the
stranger gruffly without looking
away from the gallows.
Harkins swallowed hard and
breathed a prayer.
“Poor fellow,” he murmured.
“What’s that you say?”
“I said, ‘Poor fellow,’” re-
peated Harkins stoutly.
Slowly the other man faced
him.
“And why poor fellow, may I
ask?” His voice seemed queer
and uncertain,
“Because, as far as I am able
to judge, Entwhistle is a good
man,” replied Harkins with a
display of heat, only to add
humbly: “Or he was a good
man.”
“He should not have been
hanged,” exploded the other
angrily, much to Jem’s astonish-
ment. “I say that emphatically,
sir. Alas, he would never have
gone to such an ignominious
death had it not been for Gov-
ernor Darling..,. and a load of
wool!”
“Darling. . .wool?” Harkins
was palpably, mystified.
Steely-blue eyes fastened their
gaze on Harkins.
“It seems,” said the stranger,
“you do not know why Ent-
whistle decamped and turned
himself into a bushranger, no?”
“We.. .my wife and I, have
been wondering that for some
days, sir,” said Jem.
“In that case I shall tell you,”
volunteered the other man. He
sighed and stepped back a few
paces, followed by Harkins. “It
all started because Entwhistle’s
master decided to send a bullock-
dray load of wool to Sydney
Town. He sent Entwhistle, who
stood in high regard, and whose
ticket-of-leave was due.' Know-
ing that he would be a free man
soon, Entwhistle set out with a
companion. It was an extremely
hot day, and the road, as you
know, hot and dusty. So when
they arrived at the Macquarie
River yonder,” he pointed to the
distant stream, “the cool water
proved too strong a temptation.
Disrobing, they plunged into the
river, as you or I might have
done, sir.”
The stranger paused and
glanced towards the scaffold as
though meditating, then resumed
his narrative:
“The two lads were splashing
about and enjoying themselves
when a cavalcade appeared.
Soldiers brilliantly decked out in
their smart trimmings crossed
the ford. But, alas, a magistrate
with Governor Darling—for the
Governor was travelling here to
Bathurst —saw the naked men in
the water. He had the men
dragged before him, and then,”
the stranger caught Jem’s arm,
“he had them flogged on tne
spot until their poor bodies were
raw and dripping with, blood.
, “Flogged for swimming!
Aghast, Harkins mentally felt
the burning thongs cutting again
into his own flesh, and he re-
membered the strange, hunted
look on Ralf Entwhistle’s
on the day he, Jem, had stripped
off his shirt in order to gain the
sympathy of the bushrangers.
“Not for swimming so much
as offending the laws of modesty
and the susceptibilities of some
of his Excellency’s representa-
tives by bathing in the nude, ’
said the other harshly. “No
wonder Entwhistle became a
changed man. No wonder he ran
off and led a band of ruffians.
And now, today, three days after
trial, he was hanged with nine
others, six for murder and four
for stealing.”
Harkins placed a sympathetic
hand on the other’s arm.
“ ’Twas meant to be,” he said
earnestly.
T EM was about to leave with
the idea of returning to
Martha when a murmur rose
from those in front as he looked
towards the gibbet. Standing
there, with arms tied behind him,
was Andy, the huge fellow who
had been with Entwhistle on the
day the bushrangers called at
the Harkinses’ farm. The man
looked contemptuously around
him, then calmly spat over the
heads of the spectators below.
Unexpectedly he laughed loudly.
“Me mother alwis said I’d die
wi’ me boots on! ” He shouted
with such coarse violence that
those nearest him shuddered. He
held up one foot to indicate that
he wore boots.
“But she was wrong,” he
roared.
Taking painstaking aim,
laughing the while, he kicked
one boot and then the other into
the crowd at the foot of the
scaffold.


1
4
a
&
£
o
3ft
X
$
m
Vli
%
7/
1
i
f/.
ip<?M
40
vjecirs ago
Forty years ago the Commonwealth Bank
opened its first branch to you, your
neighbours and your friends. Since then
the Bank—built on the firm foundations
of the money and confidence of the people
of Australia—has grown until today it
ranks among the largest and strongest in
the world.
The Commonwealth Bank is owned by you.
It operates in your interests. Its profits
are indirectly returned to you.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
CG8.27-82
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY KESTER ELLEM late of
Casino.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
ELLEN ELLEM has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 658 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 4th day of
February 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
OAKES & OAKES, of 88 Molesworth
Street, Lismore, Solicitors, or from their
Sydney Agents, MESSRS. F. W. HALL
& EDGINGTON, of 77 King Street, Syd-
ney, Solicitors. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RACHEL SONTER late of Lismore.—
TAKE NOTICE that NORMAN EARL
SONTER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3333 of 1952 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 4th day of
February 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
MURRAY M. HOOKE & SUMMERVILLE,
of 117 Victoria Street, Taree, Solicitors,
or from their Sydney Agents, MESSRS.
F. W. HALL & EDGINGTON, of 77 King
Street, Sydney, Solicitors. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Legal Notice
GRIFFITHS, Deceased..
GEORGE STEPHEN MORTIMER HENRY
GRIFFITHS (also known as GEORGE
HENRY and as GEORGE HENRY
GRIFFITHS) died at Sydney, N.S.W., on
10th April, 1943, intestate. He was
son of STEPHEN GRIFFITHS and SARAH
GRIFFITHS (born BARTLETT), and was
born at or near Launceston, Tasmania. —
PURSUANT to Decretal Order of Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity
made on 6th August, 1948, in Suit (No.
350 of 1948) shortly entitled “In Re
Estate of GEORGE STEPHEN MORTIMER
HENRY GRIFFITHS, Racecourse Clerk,
deceased, BETWEEN PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Plaintiff, and EASTOE AND OTHERS.
Defendants, WHEREBY the following in-
quiry was directed, namely, who were
the persons entitled according to the
Statutes for the distribution of intestates’
estates to the estate of George Stephen
Mortimer Henry Griffiths living at his
death, and whether any of them are since
dead, and if so who are their respective
legal personal representatives, NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry (who have not already sent in
claims) are to send by post prepaid to
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, O’Connell Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., so as to reach him on
or before the 24th January, 1953, their
full names, addresses and descriptions and
full particulars of their claims; other-
wise they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Decretal Order, unless
otherwise ordered. Claimants are to
attend by solicitor or in person before
the Master in Equity, Supreme Court,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, on Thursday,
12th February, 1953, at 11 a.m., for the
adjudication upon the claims. A claimant
not residing in New South Wales must
send with his particulars of claim the
name and address of a person in New
South Wales to whom notices to the claim-
ant can be sent. Known first cousins of
the Intestate survived him. The follow-
ing persons are particularly sought,
namely, STEPHEN GRIFFITHS, MAR-
GRATTA (or MARGARETTA) ELIZA-
BETH RODGERS, WILLIAM RODGERS,
WALTER HARRIS RODGERS, GEORGE
WILLIAM RODGERS, FLORENCE LYDIA
LE GALLANT. Anyone able to give in-
formation concerning any of these persons
will please communicate with the under-
signed Solicitor. Dated 13th November,
1952.—T. W. GARRETT CHRISTIE &
BUCKLEY, 14 Martin Place, Sydney,
N.S.W., Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
m
TRACTOR
UMBRELLAS
Plain Brown Duck
Covers.
Complete with steel
frame, 2-piece wood
handles with Tilting
Joint.
sft. spread 102/9
saft. spread ... 117/9
55ft. (2nd qlty) 92/6
6ft. (to order) .. £7/2/6
Post, and Insurance,
4/3 in N.S.W.
or P.0.R., Sydney.
BEACH
UMBRELLAS
45ft. to Bft. spread
from 89/11 to £l2/15/-
re-,1
568 GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
O,
Keep Cooler
Send for Samples; Prices; Measurement
Sheet for Every Type of Blind
BE BEADY FOR A HOT SUMMER
• ♦
PTY.
LTD.
Dept. “B,”
568 George St.,
Sydney,
N.S.W.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Hits! Skits! and
Jingles! by W. T. Goodge.—s3Bo.
To buy copy of The Billy Book by
David L0w.— 5379.
Information Sought
Is the Socialism as advocated (and
practised) by the British and Aus-
tralian Labor parties in any way simi-
lar to National Socialism {Nazism)?
These three brands of Socialism are
basically the same —the foundation of
all is (or, in the case of National
Socialism, was) the nationalisation of
heavy industry, transport services and
some other businesses. A vast
bureaucracy is also a feature of all.
However, the aggressive foreign policy
of Hitler’s Germany and the bar-
barism of some parts of its internal
administration cannot, of course, be
linked with anything in British (and
Australian) Labor-party policy. In
this respect Nazism and Communism,
besides both believing in nationalisa-
tion, have a lot in common.
* * * *
What were the “pipes,” printed in
Australia in the early 19th century?
According to the Australian Ency-
clopedia it was “the name given to
certain scurrilous papers which were
circulated in the earlier days of the
colony of New South Wales, lam-
pooning high-placed officials and
other well-known persons.” The
earliest copie? were hand-written, no
doubt well disguised. Later they were
printed, and often plastered on the
posts in the town. None of them
appears to have any literary merit.
* * * *
Details about the author of
“Nicholas Freydort” ?
The Record of Nicholas Freydon
is a fictitious autobiography published
anonymously in 1915. Much of the
action takes place in N.S.W., and
the story, as a whole, is so well
written that literary circles here were
interested in discovering the author.
It was not until 1936 that Morris
Miller was able to attribute the book
to A. J. Dawson. A. J. Dawson was
born in 1872 in England. He spent
several years in Australia after desert-
ing from his sailing-ship while still
a boy. He later returned to England,
where he became a journalist. He
served in World War I until he was
invalided out in 1916. His work,
both as journalist and novelist, has
been marked by his belief in Imperial-
ism. His books with Australian set-
tings and interest are: Mere Senti-
ment (John Lane, 1897), Middle
Greyness (1897), Daniel Whyte (1899),
The Story of Ronald Kestrel (1901),
Nicholas Frey don (1915).
* * * *
What is comstockery ?
Zealous prosecution of immorality
in books, papers and pictures. The
word derives from Anthony Corn-
stock, who, as president of the
American Society for the Suppression
of Vice, was instrumental in getting
the Comstock Postal Act passed by
Congress in 1873. This Act gave him
almost unlimited powers of censor-
ship, and he instituted, according to
H. L. Mencken, “a reign of terror”
on the printing of “certain ancient
and essentially decent English words.”
Hence, in a derogatory sense, “com-
stockery” means “exaggerated prudish-
ness.”
* * * «
(1) What, briefly, was E. G.
Theodore’s proposed fiduciary issue in
1931 ? (2) Has any similar proposi-
tion been made in recent months?
At the beginning of 1931 Theodore,
Federal Treasurer in the Scullin
Ministry, put forward a plan based
upon the view that the deflation of
that period, the result of a fall in
the value of exports and in overseas
borrowing, had gone Tar enough.
The objective of the plan was to
seek recovery by reversing the exist-
ing policy of restricting bank credit
and pursuing a policy of expansion.
Chief monetary methods suggested
were (a) purchase by the Common-
wealth Bank of Government securi-
ties; ( b ) reduction of interest-rates on
deposits and overdrafts; (c) raising
of the exchange-rate to its “natural
level”; id) issue of £lB million of
“fiduciary notes” to be used over a
period of years in paying a bounty
on wheat and in providing work for
unemployed. The plan was never put
into practice. (2) Dr. Evatt’s recently-
outlined “eight-points” programme,
urging unlimited credit expansion to
overcome the “unemployment” which
he says exists in Australia, is on the
same lines.
* * * *
What was the commedia dell’ arte?
Italian comedy as performed by a
professional actor guild trained to
improvise lines and details from a
written plot consisting of a few lines
only. In nearly all of the plays the
same characters appear and similar
scenes occur. (Pulcinella, a wag of
Apulia, and Coviello, a clown of
Calabria, are two of the regular
characters.) A modern Christmas
pantomime is not dissimilarly com-
posed. At first the commedia del
arte was confined to Italian cities, bu
it soon spread to other countrie
For nearly 200 years, from about th
middle of the 16th century onward
it was the most popular form o:
dramatic entertainment over most o:
the Continent. It had a great influenc
on the development of the dram
(Shakspeare and Moliere drew on it
and the theatre is greatly indeblec
to it.
Brief Answers
M.W.: Dr. C. H. Souter wrot
often for The Bulletin under th
nom de plume of “Dr. Nil”...
A.8.J.: A moidore was a gold coin
of Portugal current in England in th
first half of the 18th century, from
moeda d’ouro, money of gold. It wa
worth about 275. 6d. In later use
the word survived as a name for the
sum of 27s L.C.8.: Richart
Kempenfelt (1637-1711), the son of
Swede in the service of James II
served as naval officer, and wa
present at a number of actions in the
West and East Indies, rising to rear-
admiral. IJe was flying his flag or
the Royal George when his ship wen
down at Spithead, as commemoratec
in Cowper’s poem... .W.F.J.: Nat
Gould was born in 1857 and died in
1919. His first book. The Double
Event, published when he was work-
ing as a journalist .in Australia
achieved immediate success; he sub-
sequently wrote about 130 novels, al
concerned with horse-racing. He also
wrote two books on Australian life.
On and Off the Turf (1895) and Town
and Bush (1896), as well as The
Magic of Sport: Mainly Autobio-
graphical (1909)... .P.McG.; Curtis
Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street,
W.C.2; John Farquharson, 8 Halsey
House, Red Lion-square, W.C.I; A.
P. Watt and Son, Hastings House,
Norfolk-street, Strand, W.C.2; and
Hughes Massie and Co., Ltd., 40
Fleet-street, E.C.4 —all London....
D.G.; The Van Diemen’s Land
Warriors, or the Heroes of Cornwall,
by Pindar Juvenal, was the first
separate volume of verse published
in Tasmania, and appeared in 1827.
It is a satire on the attempt to cap-
ture Brady, the bushranger. The
authorship is still conjectural
R.S.: Edmund Finn (1819-98) used
the pen-name “Garryowen” for his
regular contributions to the Mel-
bourne “Herald,” He arrived at
Melbourne from Ireland in 1841 and
followed journalism until 1858, when
he was made clerk to the Victorian
Legislative Council. The Garryowen
Sketches were published in 1880, and
were reminiscences of early Mel-
bourne M.E.F.: Since the N.S.W.
Education Department does not com-
pile statistics of that nature the in-
formation required is not available.
W.J.F.: A report in 1857 ( vide
“Border Post,” August 1, 1857) stated
that Baratta, about midway between
Deniliquin and Moulamein, was
about to be laid out as a township.
It was not, however, until 1863 that
the township was proclaimed. Baratta
was known as Ten-mile Waterhole
in the ’sixties R.G.: Write Mr.
J. F. H. Wright, senior information
officer. Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organisation, 314
Albert-street, East Melbourne (Vic.).
R.J.W.: Suggest that you send
letters to them care of us, and we will
redirect C.H.; New Poems, 1952,
edited by Clifford Dyment, Roy Fuller
and Montagu Slater and published
by Michael Joseph, 26 Bloomsbury-
street, London, W.C.2 W.J.R.:
(1) “Venusian” means “of or per-
taining to the planet Venus”; “Venu-
tian” is an imaginary inhabitant of
that planet; “venereal” means “ot
or pertaining to venery, or sexual
love.” The only adjective that can
be applied to the goddess is “Venus-
like.” (2) You are confusing averages
and totals. One ticket in a lottery
gives, as you say, one chance in
100,000 of winning. If 1000 tickets
are taken in 1000 lotteries, the average
chance of winning each lottery re-
mains ihe same, but the subtotal of
chances increases. A man taking a
ticket in 1000 lotteries has 999 more
chances of winning than the man who
takes a ticket in only one lottery; but
the average chance of winning, in both
cases, is the same... .L.D.P.: The
phrase means “Opposites are cured
by opposites”... .A.C.: Yes, that
more-or-less sums-up Hitler’s views
on the quickest means to get office.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
T.R.: Most credible bit of your
story is your note that all characters
and incidents are fictitious C.M.:
One clear remark, and the rest a
disorderly hotchpotch... .W.M.L.:
Doesn’t pull together... .H.W.: Hens
article seemed a little peckish
J.V.D.: Both very vague LG.: A
mundane confession followed by an
uninventive suicide... .L.H.: How can
you struggle against your gift for
making reality incredible? N.C.:
Orright, so she gave herself to men.
M.B.: You mustn’t let other
people’s hopelessness get you down.
S.H.: The consciences of doctors
are the responsibility of the B.M.A.
E.R.C.: Not quite enough meat
in it K.H.H.: No bush-barons.
M.T.: Room here for two
stanzas of your ode on “Canberra” —
perhaps we should make it clear that
the second stanza does not refer to
Parliament House:
This unusual name, designed for fame.
Was once an aboriginal spate—
Now it stands, in Australian land,
The Capital for every State.
The Institute of Anatomy, standing tall
and serene,
Is another asset to be seen
For here amidst the bottles arrayed
The human form is fully portrayed.
M.E.P.: Too many beautiful
thoughts Z.V.W.: Much too lush
and yearning 8.M.C.: In spite of
your explanatory note, we could not
follow it A.V.H.: Bright idea,
worth two sentences A.S.: Some-
thing in “The Old Box,” but not
enough R.A.: It’s a plot!
J.G.M.: Platitude M.L.: It’s a
good idea, but you fetch around so
far to make the convict meet the
ex-governor of the prison, when they
could just as easily meet in the street,
and dispose of the matter in half the
number of words E.P.: Not had,
but not ours N.A.K.: You do
pile it on K.G.H.: Sorry, but
neither seems to hold together....
M.C.: Not a hope K.M.: Leave
trick detective-stories to the masters;
the only way, for a beginner, is to
have a body discovered, the detective
called in, and the case worked out
sensibly, clue by clue. The detective
must not have done it. The police-
man on the beat must not have done
it. It must not have been suicide.
The murderer must not be a maniac.
The murder must have been intended,
and not the product of chance. Even
when an experienced writer breaks
these rules the result is likely to be
unsatisfactory W.Y.: The soldier
who returns unexpectedly from the
dead to find his wife married to his
best friend —no! L.S.: We’re get-
ting better and better; we knew from
the rhythm and structure of the first
sentence that the mysterious “she”
that had to be disposed of would
turn out to be a dog on the last page.
~...J.D.: How those tigers ramble!
. ...E.N.: You build up a nice little
country scene and then knock the
young wife on the head —for what?
To justify a fantastic prophecy and
get a few bob from us! Lady, it’s
not worth it.


JOOMd
7K7*. -
SJJHDVSAI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
mm
•
' ' •
WM-
r”'‘"
A -
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED '
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
CIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIR
WIRE NETTING. ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Grazing and Erosion
“Rooster”; The Upper
Murray region is eroding at such
a rate that fat-lamb, beef- and
wheat-production will be seri-
ously reduced if something isn’t
done about it. Sheet- and gully-
erosion occurs mainly on the
higher grazing lands where
climatic conditions do not favor
ready or abundant growth. Else-
where there is some gullying on
cultivated wheatlands, and be-
cause of the record rainfall this
year (already over 300 points
above the annual average of
25in.) stream - erosion has
reached dangerous proportions.
Most of the erosion occurs on
grazing land, and it is obvious
that overgrazing is the cause.
What happens is that during
lean or droughty periods over-
stocking denudes the surface ;
the hot northerlies “lift” the top-
soil and new gullies appear when
heavy rains follow a dry period.
The question of stock per
acre in relation to ground-cover
against erosion is a complex
one, involving such considera-
tions as balance of grasses and
providing the maximum safe
return.
Proper rates of stocking are
hard to assess because of sea-
sonal variations. But it is im-
portant always, where possible,
to carry over a body of feed
to hold the soil. Where sheet-
erosion has occurred, cattle only
for a season or two would help
to restore growth and surface
soil. There must be a balance
between output and intake. The
alternative is desert.
Tree-planter’s Record
“Farmer Bill”: Up and down
the Murray, Andrew Hudson,
pastoralist, of Barham (N.S.W.),
is known for his tree-planting.
Starting 30 years ago to plant
trees himself, he later propa-
gated native seeds and distri-
buted the seedling crop to
farmers, other tree-lovers and
organisations. In addition he
preached a gospel of preserva-
tion of all native trees.
# Hudson’s planting successes
are based on a sound policy;
“Grow the trees suitable to the
F °*
“ Yair — I struck a rough patch an had l' dice ’alf
me gear”
clovers, economic use of pasture-
growth and the type of stock
carried.
Cattle can utilise bulky, rough
feed to advantage, but tend to
graze selectively, seldom giving
the maximum safe return per
acre. Sheep prefer close-crop-
ping, and it’s easy to fall into
the error of overstocking. Close-
cropping leaves pasture clover-
dominated, weeds (such as cape-
weed and barley-grass) flourish,
and nutritional diseases occur.
Only by combining sheep and
cattle can pastures be astutely
managed to offset disease and
erosion, while at the same time
area if you want maximum
shelter, fodder and longevity.”
He regards the common black-
box and river redgum as two
of Australia’s most valuable
trees. Scores of both species,
with pines and Cootamundra
wattles, have endowed the Bar-
ham golf-links with a parklike
atmosphere. Hudson says that
where the weeping-willow can
be grown close to water, or in
beds of old creeks, or dams get-
ting an occasional flooding they
should be planted.
On his former farm property,
Glenview, massed plantings of
willows, though only 10 years
old, rise like miniature moun-
tain ranges.
When Hudson declared that,
with irrigation, clover pastures
■ would thrive on the Wakool’s
treeless plains men scoffed. To-
day the area is irrigated and
pastures flourish. When he said
trees could be grown there they
scoffed again. So Hudson four
years ago decided to test trees
on the plains and grew the seed-
lings for them.
On Plot 1 the soil was lin.
loam over clay. Trees planted
included peppers, mahogany,
black-box, red- and sugar-gums,
pines, etc. Though making slow
progress, the trees are healthy
and there have been no failures.
The black-box is 10ft. high.
On Plot 2, where the clay
loam is said to be an even
poorer soil than the first, trees
have prospered amazingly.
Black-box and golden-wattles
are 10ft. high. Coobas, mahoga-
nies, ironbarks, etc., are also
making good growth. In this
plot some trees appear to be
developing a mallee form of
growth—many branches. This
gives them a vigorous appear-
ance and helps them to better
combat wind.
Water for Sheep
“Pat O’Day”; Sheep drink
more readily from creeks or
dams. Water-troughs are not
particularly recommended for
sheep—except in the case of
very small paddocks where studs
or other small flocks are kept.
It is best to run weaners in a
paddock where there is a good
water - supply from creek or
dam. These young sheep, just
off the mothers, find it hard to
fend for themselves for a
while; natural water encour-
ages them to drink. In warm
weather plentiful water is more
essential to them than plentiful
tucker.
Bencubbin Still Good
“Peg Drum”; Though a crop
of Kendee won the R.A.S.
championship in the N.S.W.
Central West this year, Bencub-
bin is still about the best variety
for the area, according to
Jimmy O’Reilly, an Agricul-
tural Department field expert of
many years’ experience.
O’Reilly says that if farmers
get adequate superphosphate and
follow the present rotation sys-
tem the Central West will con-
tinue as an important wheat
district. Bulk-handling was the
greatest single factor in reduc-
ing costs, increasing production
and stimulating fresh interest in
wheatgrowing. It had eliminated
many hazards. Farmers who had
begun bulk-handling were har-
vesting up to 100 acres a day,
and went to bed at night free
from the worry that a year’s
work could be destroyed in a
few hours if bagged wheat
stacked in paddocks was hit by
vermin, sudden storms or fire.
“There is no doubt from this
year’s experience that Bencub-
bin is suitable for this part of
the wheatbelt. It has a consis-
tently good yielding-capacity
and drought-resistance. Although
grain quality is not as good as
desired, there is no variety to
replace it. While Warigo and
Glenwari have a high inherent
yielding-capacity, it is doubtful
whether their drought-resistance
is equal to Bencubbin.”
A young Mendooran World
War II ex-serviceman, S. R.
Brown, won the championship.
He has a 235-acre crop of Ken-
dee, estimated to yield 50
bushels an acre. Valued at a
minimum of 12s. 6d. a bushel for
flour, this will net him at least
£7343.
Brown sharefarms on the
3600-acre Fernside property of
R. A. Gavon, and has been there
three years.
Kendee was bred at Sydney
University from seed obtained
from a Kenya-Dundee cross,
and is considered suitable for
the Central West of N.S.W. be-
cause of its high yielding-
capacity, straw strength and
grain quality.
Grain Sorghum
“Saw Gum”: Grain-sorghum
can be grown almost anywhere
in Australia where there is rea-
sonable summer rainfall. It is
so easy to grow that hardly any
farmer needs advice on when
and how to sow it. What many
growers require is better know-
ledge of how to use the crop.
North-west N.S.W. farmers
began growing grain-sorghum a
few years ago, then practically
gave it up when export was
banned. Not long afterwards
they were hit by drought, with
insufficient feed for their stock.
Now grain-sorghum is again
becoming popular because ex-
port is being permitted. But
little or no sign of grain storage
is seen. Apart from drought
losses, grain-sorghum could
obviate general winter starva-
tion. It lends itself better than
any other crop to winter conser-
vation on the standing stalk.
American farmers are build-
ing a grain-sorghum belt as
another great livestock-produc-
tion centre in addition to the
vast production of their corn-
belt. Something similar could
be done here, but not while the
imagination of the Australian
landholder only extends to grow-
ing grain-sorghum as an export
crop for profit.
Old Stud Sold
“C. Eater”; Almost a cen-
tury of South Australia’s pas-
toral history was recalled by the
auction sale of Waratah home-
stead in the Adelaide hills, 11
miles from Strathalbyn. The
Waratah Aberdeen-Angus stud
was founded in 1920 by A. L.
Dunn, who died last January.
Dunn’s death broke a link
with South Australia’s cattle in-
dustry. He was born at Stanley
House on the family estate,
Underwood, at McKarg’s Creek.
His father, G. Dunn, had earlier
lived in the Mt. Barker and
Nairne districts, taking up
Underwood in 1859.
Foundation stock, several
cows in calf and a bull, Proud
Eli 4th, were bought from the
late P. Sutherland, of Thologo-
long. Two cows were also
bought at the Bywell (N.Z.) dis-
persal sale. Cows then were
added from Buckland Park,
Rosebank and Scottsburn studs.
Several of The Flower family
were obtained from Buckland
Park. It was from these and
the Bywell family that the
majority of the Waratah stud
stock were bred in recent years.
Last females added to the stud
were two Cavan and five Valle
Pacis cows. Bald Blair Captain
Black, by Neptune of Gwavas
(imp. N.Z.), was the second
stock bull used at Waratah.
Then followed Trangie Elba’s
Revolution, by Brave Edward
Glencarnock (imp.). Trangie
Elba’s Revolution was twice
champion at Adelaide Royal
Show. Subsequent bulls used
included Rosebank Eric, Rose-
bank Centurion, Waratah
Twinkler, Waratah Rajar, Wara-
tah Florist and Waratah Viking.
Tomato Diseases
“Tyco”: Bordeaux mixture is
the bulwark against some
diseases of tomatoes, but its
excellence is not in preventing
bacterial and virus diseases (B.
19/11/’52). It is the fungus
diseases, such as early blight,
late blight and Septoria leaf-
spot, which Bordeaux checks.
Canker and bacterial-wilt are
the most troublesome bacterial
diseases of tomatoes and
spotted-wilt, mosaic, big-bud and
fern-leaf the chief virus diseases.
To conquer them, and fusarium-
wilt, one fungus disease against
which Bordeaux is not effective,
you need anti-bacterial and anti-
virus sprays.
New Research Centre
“R.N.”: The C.5.1.R.0. has
appointed, with the agreement of
the University of Sydney, Dr.
C. W. Eramens (Professor of
Veterinary Physiology) as boss
of a new sheep-biology labora-
tory at Prospect, near Parra-
matta (N.S.W.).
Emmens has a distinguished
record as an animal physiolo-
gist, and was for many years
engaged on research at the
National Institute for Medical
THE WEATHER
S(OBlao$
By Inigo Jones
The forecast for general rain early in December, with a
good December to follow, seems now assured. The cyclical
sequence leading to it is running true, and the sun has now
a very fine sunspot group due to reach its active position
about the appropriate time.
These predictions are based on the “New Meteorology”
that I have evolved in the long years I have been here, and
which I hope to see fully developed now that the buildings
at Crohamhurst are nearly complete, a work made possible
by the Long Range Weather Forecasting Trust of Sydney.


RABBITS
CAN'T RESIST
NEW DECOY
Any poison will kill the “Bunny” IF
you can get him to take it. It is the
DECOY that counts. Years of never-
ending research and a total of 980
experiments have produced a Rabbit
Decoy that the “Bunny” won t re-
sist. and can’t resist. Results have
proved it. Testimonials from grate-
ful and satisfied users all over Aus-
tralia have proved it.
“Lurex” Lures are supplied to the
Dept, of Lands (Queensland Govern-
ment). proof again that “LUREX”
IS BEST.
NOW! We Offer You
“LUREX 980”
a New, better “Lurex” with the new
secret ingredient, a substance in-
vented by nature herself.
Now you can trick Mr. Rabbit no
matter what bait you use—oats,
apples, thistle roots—it’s all the
same if you add a few drops of
“LUREX 980” to every batch.
“LUREX” has always been the only
Rabbit Lure ever sold under Money
Back Guarantee. Summer or winter,
green or dry feed, “LUREX 980”
NEVER FAILS.
DON’T waste time and money on
old-fashionhd “Decoys”—
Send right now for
“LUREX 980”
I Bottle sufficient for thousands
of baits—22/6, Post Free.
“LUREX” Fox and Dingo Lure,
21/6.
‘L.L.33”—World’s fastest Dingo
Poison, kills within 10 yards after
Fox or Dingo takes bait—
-72/6 for 500 Baits.
MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES
(Aust.)
BOX 844, G.P.0., Sydney
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Owes you the advantages of sewerage no
flatter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
fsd
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed Into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 82 years .
Write for free Illustrated pamphlet.
— 1 DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 600 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty„ Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator 00. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby k Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectris
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND : Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
HE HAS_A
RUPTURE
fs
# . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The neo-barreeh
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Yon will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbebe DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
4 doou t& cocfewg
9%!
*
0
r*
A SPECIAL
OVEN FOR EVERY
COOKING PURPOSE
It’s sheer heaven to cook with a
four-oven Aga! In addition to three
hotplates, you have a Roasting oven
big enough to take your Christmas
turkey; a Baking oven to bake cakes
and bread; a Simmering oven for
slow, economical, flavoursome cook-
ing such as soups and casseroles;
and a Warming oven where food
waits unspoilt, hour after hour.
Each Aga oven automatically main-
tains correct temperature , and since
the Aga never goes out it’s always
"just right” for cooking.
P.S. Thermostatic control
guarantees fuel economy!
10 YEARS’ GUARANTEE
The British-built Ago Is
guaranteed for 10 years
against faulty materials
or workmanship.
THE 4 OVEN>
AGA
COOKER J
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. In 1841)
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR THE AGA COOKER
AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIA MALLOCH BROS. LU., Perth
SB
n&» s .
LQH*
ass
jrA.
,tv«"
0$
m
o)\J^..hs
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon & Co. Ltd.
Qtta/tfa
Gordons
Stands Sup'UMM
Research, London. He will con-
tinue concurrently his work at
Sydney Uni.
The Prospect laboratory will
be a focal-point for the collec-
tion, analysis and recording of
all scientific data relating to
sheep- and wool-husbandry, and
it is hoped that it may eventu-
ally be recognised as the world-
centre of information on sheep,
particularly the Merino and
other special Australian types.
Onions
“Myrrhee”: Onions will root
deeply and form better bulbs in
a deep friable soil. Use five
parts of blood-and-bone as a
base fertiliser in double bands
on each side of the row, loz.
(a match-box full) for every 6ft.
of row. Firm down the surface
by trampling before planting.
Press soil firmly around the
seedlings and water immediately
to consolidate the soil around
the roots.
Weed-growth is more detri-
mental to onions than to most
veges, but, when hoeing, keep
clear of the roots. Cease water-
ing when the bulbs have formed.
Heavy watering after this can
cause mildew and shorten
storage life. When the bulbs
begin to form, apply liquid sul-
phate of ammonia (loz. to the
gallon) twice, at intervals of one
month. For storage, allow the
tops to dry off and the bulbs to
lie on the surface for some days.
Hang in a cool, airy shed.
Hemlock Danger
“Agric”; Cultivation of hem-
lock —a poisonous weed deadly
to man and beast —by residents
of Yelarbon, on the Queensland-
N.S.W. border, is held to be
partly responsible for the infes-
tation of hemlock along the
Dumaresq River, Macintyre
Brook and Oakey and Aplin
Creeks.
The residents thought it was
“lace-fern,” and home-gardeners
have claimed that they bought
hemlock seed from seed-mer-
chants in packets labelled “Lace
Flower.”
A survey having revealed the
extensive spread of the weed,
the Queensland Lands Depart-
ment intends to call upon land-
holders along or abutting the
infested streams to destroy hem-
lock.
A single hemlock plant taken
as a garden plant to the head
of Tent Hill Creek, near Gatton
fQ.), infested thousands of acres
in less than two years, and
spread over 20 miles down the
creek. A demonstration on the
destruction of hemlock with
hormone weedicides is to be held
at Silverspur.
Snakebite
“Old Nick”: Faintness,
vomiting and general drowsiness
are some of the symptoms of
snakebite. Sometimes limbs be-
come weak and walking is badly
affected ; speech may be difficult
and respiration slow.
Put on a ligature at once.
Then get to work on the bitten
area: scarify the wound and
suck the venom out. When it’s
impossible to apply a ligature
cut deep into the flesh and
remove the bitten part.
If the venom enters the blood-
stream direct, the effects can be
seen in from 60 seconds to four
minutes. One injection of anti-
venine by a doctor usually
works a cure.
Chance for Goats
“C.S.”: Ban on export to the
Middle East of Kashkawal
cheese, now manufactured
almost exclusively by Bulgarian
goat-farmers, has caused Middle
East businessmen and Govern-
ment officials to look to Aus-
tralia to supply 4,000,0001 b. of
goat’s-milk to make that sort of
cheese, according to H. N.
Sarina, of Sydney R.A.S.
Sarina said if tentative plans
now under consideration by
large Middle East organisations
developed a large processing
plant would be built here and
goat-farming could quickly be-
come an important industry.
Kashkawal cheese made from
goat-milk is one of the staple
items in the diet of practically
all Middle East people. Since
the cessation of Bulgarian ex-
ports a locally-built factory at
Beyrouth has been unable to
supply even Lebanon’s require-
ments, with none for neighbor-
ing countries.
Fruit-thinning
“C.A.A,”; Hormone sprays
are now used successfully in
thinning out apple crops.
Chemical used is naphthalene
acetic acid, and if applied at
petal-fall stage it will reduce the
set of fruit.
For Jonathan and Delicious,
strength should be threequarters
of the standard-sized bottle of
spray to lOOgal. of water; for
Statesman and Gravenstein H
bottles and for other varieties
one bottle. One pint of white-
oil emulsion added to the vat
increases the effectiveness of the
spray.
Only exception to the petal-
fall stage is Yates, and spray
should be applied for this variety
at late petal-fall.
Hints for the Farm
“Baroona”: Chrysanthemums
should have a little care to-
wards the end of the year.
Strong, healthy plants should be
pruned to within about a foot of
the ground. This year’s plant-
ings from cuttings or suckers,
however, will not need this
attention until mid-January,
unless the plants are growing
tall and spindly, when they
should be topped. Chrysanthe-
mums don’t like overwatering.
A good watering once a week
is enough. Mulching helps keep
the roots cool and saves the
water.
“Garden”; When a swarm of
bees has been collected, place a
sheet of newspaper on the
ground before the entrance to
the empty hive. Put the swarm
on the paper and the bees will
climb up into their new home
without fuss.
“M-”: Water the horse before
feeding him. If he’s watered
afterwards undigested food may
be washed from the stomach to
the intestines and cause serious
digestive disorders.
“Mr.”; When oats are dis-
placed by other concentrates in
a horse’s feed replacement
should not be on a pound-for-
pound basis but in these propor-
tions (figures are the equivalent
of 101 b. of oats): bran, 14.11 b.;
barley (grain), 8,7; brewer’s
grains (dry), 13.4; maize oil-
meal, 7.0; linseed-meal, 8.6 ;
pollard, 9.0; maize (grain), 8.0.
“Moy”; Greenstuff at the
rate of 41b. to lib. of chaff can
be used to displace part of the
chaff in a horse’s ration. The
horse should receive at least
four feeds a day and the larger
portions of the grain ration at
feeds when it has the least time
to eat. If not run on pasture
give a laxative ration of green-
stuff or bran once a week.
“G.C.8.”: To ensure good
germination, parsnip seed should
not be firmed-in whgn sown. It
is necessary for it to turn over
completely in its bed prior to
germinating. Firming it in pre-
vents this natural habit and little
or no germination results.
“Quorn”; Keep the nails well
trimmed for milking. Nails that
pinch can make a cow restless.
“Rooster”; Best crop for pigs
is lucerne. It requires a well-
prepared seed-bed and good top-
soil. Clean the land carefully
before sowing and don’t graze
until well established —about 18
months after sowing. Cut when
about half the flowers appear.
When meal is fed in conjunction
with lucerne pigs will fatten in
the coldest winter.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Federal Government
The loss of Flinders by the Liberals
indicates that Australians are not yet
prepared to make personal sacrifices for
the social and economic welfare of the
country.
The Menzies Government was elected
on a four-point programme—anti-infla-
tion, anti-Communism, anti-Socialisation
and defence preparation—all of which
it has done in part, if not in the whole.
Yet in a comparatively short time every-
one seems to be howling for its head.
Loudest in the clamor are sections of the
daily Press,
The Government’s record is good. The
inflationary spiral is weakening, if it hasn’t
already stopped. There is more indus-
trial peace today than there was two years
ago, and the Communist grip on many
unions has been weakened. The Govern-
ment is withdrawing from all fields of
trading, and it has put defence on the
soundest peace-time basis since Federa-
tion, Yet on all these points its so-called
friends are attacking it.
Somebody had to be hurt by the drastic
measures necessary to curb inflation, and,
unfortunately for the Menzies Govern-
ment, that somebody was the Liberal sup-
porter. Credit restrictions came at a
time when borrowing was reaching alarm-
ing proportions, the sales taxes were
imposed to prevent the production of
luxury goods at the expense of necessities,
import restrictions and a balanced Budget
saved the country from heading into
bankruptcy. Daily newspapers have de-
nounced these measures, yet never have
they acknowledged what could have hap-
pened had they not been imposed. Nor
have they suggested alternative safety-
measures.
It has been the same old cry through-
out: “Take from the other man but leave
me alone.” Just how well Labor has
drilled the theory of the Welfare State
into Australians is only too apparent. Its
formula for governing is to. reduce. taxa-
tion yet increase its free handouts.
The Federal Government is suffering,
too, from the unemployment problem.
Although much of the unemployment has
arisen from political and economic panic
in the States, the buck is very successfully
passed to the Commonwealth.
Of course Mr. Menzies could please his
critics if he wanted to. He could reduce
the defence expenditure by half and cut
taxes accordingly. He could give infla-
tion a free gp again by reducing or remov-
ing sales taxes, credit restrictions, and
providing the States with a lot more
money from Treasury bills or such in-
flationary sources.
That, it seems, is what his most
vociferous critics demand of him. And
the trouble is that too many otherwise
sensible Australians are listening to them.
—Rann (N.S.W.).
When the voters heaved out Federal
Labor they made plain their displeasure
with Socialism. The Liberals were
elected, and re-elected, on a policy
designed to slash away the bonds which
were binding and inhibiting free enter-
prise, stultifying ambition and vitiating
the very character of Australians.
Labor policy has created, in the name
of “full employment,” a dangerous atti-
tude towards life in the minds of many
Australians. There was widespread evi-
dence of a general decline in morale.
Almost everyone was prepared to score
at the expense of his neighbor. The
blackmarket dealt in most commodities
and was almost universally accepted.
Almost anyone in a position to render a
service became a petty racketeer. The
question “What is there in it for me?”
was on everyone’s lips.
Shortages of labor and commodities
gave birth to that attitude, and Labor’s
boards and bureaux nurtured it. The
whole place stank, and it was no wonder
that the Government was unseated.
The Menzies Government faced-a hard
task. It was obvious that the job of
cleaning-up would take a long time, and
would prove unpopular. And, after only
two years of office, the Government has
achieved such a degree of unpopularity
that, were it to go to the polls just now,
it would stand a good chance of being
voted out. Why? Because it isn’t good
enough for the job.
It promised to make the banks safe
against any future attack by a Socialist
Government, but session after session it
has declined to face-up to the issue.
Spectacular promises to “put value back
into the pound” are recalled every time
the basic wage takes another jump. Re-
duction of taxation was almost immedi-
ately followed by an imposition un-
paralleled in peace-time Australia and
the introduction of controls that promptly
threw thousands out of work.
Little has been done to indicate that
the Liberal-Country-party combination
has any particular brief for private enter-
prise. The army of boards created by
the Socialists remains, and the public
■ service is bigger than ever before.
The Liberal party’s greatest weakness
appears to be in its public; relations.
Although it has brought peace to the
N. S. Wales coalfields, and although the
output of steel and other basic commodi-
ties is greater than ever before, the
Labor parties in Queensland, N. S. Wales
and Victoria have been able to convince
the voters that the bitter fruits of Labor’s
profligate policies are really the result
of two years of Liberal-Country-party
government.
The worst of it all is that Labor hasn’t
a constructive thought to its name. Its
successes have come from the failure of
the Liberals to fulfil election promises,
and their inability to impress the people
TWO-
HAWBED
JERK
with the value and importance of their
achievements. Unless they do something
about both things they’ll finish-up with
the disgust of their supporters and the
contempt of their enemies.—Y. C.
(N.S.W.), ;
Peace in Korea?
I applaud Eisenhower’s proposed visit
to Korea, not because I expect him to
solve the prisoner-of-war issue, but be-
cause he may direct attention to certain
military aspects of the situation which
have been almost entirely neglected.
Success of the truce-talks could only bring
about an uneasy ceasefire along the
present battle-line, a situation that would
soon become intolerable for both sides
and utterly hopeless for the Koreans.
The first point, unpalatable though it
may be, is that China had as much reason
for sending an' army into Korea as we
had. Consider her point of view. She is
excluded from ITN., while a band of dis-
credited exiles in Formosa is represented
there. That alone makes U.N. a
potentially hostile Power , (in any case, it
is an article of the Communist creed that
it is so).
Civil war breaks out in Korea. The
faction friendly to China seems to be
winning when suddenly the U.N. (or U.S.,
it comes to much the same thing) throws
a large force into the country. This force
sweeps rapidly northward, while sections
of the U.N. Press proclaim that they will
soon dominate the industrial area of Man-
churia, through control of the Yalu
power-stations. Now Communists have
no experience, probably no conceptkm,
of a free Press, and it just wouldn’t occur
to them that Press statements might not
be accurate reflections of Government
policy. So China intervenes to protect
her own interests. What nation wouldn’t
in the circumstances?
It is unthinkable to leave Korea to the
Communists. To make it safe by force
would require the destruction of Com-
munism, not only in Korea but every-
where ; in other words. World War 111.
The only alternative seems to be a
formula for “neutralising” Korea, so that
either side could be reasonably sure the
other would not suddenly move in. This
doesn’t seem very hopeful at the
moment; it would involve, among other
things, a Government that can win the
allegiance of nearly all Koreans, strong
enough to defend the country against
attack from any quarter, and acceptable
to both U.N. and China. But it is a goal
worth striving for, especially as there
seems to be some evidence that China
is nearly as sick of the present war as we
are, and would welcome a peace that does
not weaken her position. If we could
achieve it, it would be the biggest victory
yet in the cold-war; a victory of common-
sense over force, and would lead to a
gradual improvement in our relations
with China. Also it might start a split
between her and Russia.— Magnoon (Q.).
Means Test
Indirectly child-endowment is subject
to a means-test (B. 29/10/’52). To the
taxpayer whose income is large enough
to benefit from deductions, £7B is allowed
for the first child, then £52 each for
any others. This difference of £26 equals
the £26 paid for child-endowment, so
such taxpayers are paying their own
child-endowment—E. F. G. (W.A.).
The Teacher
The classrooms are all the better for
the greatly lessened amount of corporal
punishment used in them. It was a bad
substitute for lack of personality and for
incompetence. Two things the born
teacher—still rather a rarity—-should
bring to his task are the power to create
an intelligent interest and a personality
congenial to youngsters —one that mixes
firmness with a sense of fun.
There is a third thing that his em-
ployers should bring to the teacher —
smaller classes.
It would be an impossible task for one
man singlehanded to bail-up and milk
50 heifers (heifers having marked indi-
viduality) in a reasonable milking-time.
It is equally impossible for one pedagogue
to educate 50 youngsters. Twenty is near
the workable number. —F. L. C. (N.Z.).
“Language”
By what divine right do some men
assume that if women work in their
company the women must tolerate both
ordinary swearing and the most filthy
language? '
“If they haven’t heard it before then
it’s about time they did,”, is a fairly
common excuse when a protest is made.
How would these “broadminded” types
take it if invited guests used the same
language before their wives * and
daughters? And even if bad language'
is an accepted thing about a house that
doesn’t make it right for office and work-
shop.
Some men will use a filthy word within
the hearing of a girl-worker and grin
about it, saying she doesn’t have to listen.
But the girl has her work to do and
cannot hurry off out of earshot every
time the gentleman wants to relieve his
feelings. . ,
I do not object to language among
men and occasionally burst forth myself,
but, boiled down, the habit of bad
language is nothing more than an admis-
sion .that we can’t say what we want to
in the Queen’s English. And there are
plenty of really effective words which can
serve the purpose and are not offensive.
—Steve (N.S.W.). '
Railway Waste
In B. 8/1.0/’52 “Ann” says the railways
administration is indifferent “to large
quantities of valuable equipment left to
lie idle and deteriorate throughout New
South Wales,” and “between Nevcrlire
and Warren a large number of steel rails
are lying covered with grass on the flats
near the railway-line.”
The facts are that these rails had to
be taken out of the track when badly-
crippled during washaways this line
about two years ago. Because they were
crippled they could not be used in running
lines; they are fit only for cutting into
lengths for use as posts for stockyards
and other purposes.
It is not economical to run ballast trains
to pick them up and it is intended, as
opportunity permits, to have them cut
into required lengths where they lie.
As for abandoned sidings or spur-lines
to old mines, the department has in-
vestigated them, and when sidings are no
longer required the material there is re-
covered.
The Way and Works Branch has always
recovered and reused any serviceable
permanent-way materials, more especially
during the shortage of such material.
Most of the abandoned spun-lines to old
mines are privately owned and the
material there, if sold, would not pay for
the cost of its recovery.
The department has received very few
requests for the purchase of old rails, and
the sale of old sleepers has been almost
wholly prohibited because they are re-
quired for departmental purposes. —W. A,
Anderson, Secretary for Railways
(N.S.W.),
Northern Railways
Congrats on “Northern Rail Dream”
(B. 5/11/’52). That dream is a recurrence
of a chimera of the past.
Two previous efforts to build that rail-
way both flopped. Each was the usual
“strategic” line. After icach of the two
elections in which the thing served as bait
the work was abandoned, the line
left to rot, there was a sell-out of Govern-
ment property at the usual sacrifice rates.
One of those attempts ended about
1917. I was at the subsequent sale. As the
manager of Walgra station I bought for
£2OO what would have cost me over
£lOOO elsewhere. Again, in 1921, the
strategic line was closed, rails pulled up,
bridges left to rot, good gear scattered.
Another strategic line was to tap the
Channel Country at Springvale. That
line, from Winton, was laid as far as
Elders!ie station, on the Diamantina;
45 miles. The last I heard of it was that
Elderslie station bought the telegraph-
line for telephone purposes, giving
a whole 10-bob-a-mile for it! The
earthworks haye doubtless long since
vanished.
One point The Bulletin makes, and
with which I agree, is that cattle cannot
be trucked a distance of about 800 miles
without great loss. Soft-conditioned
cattle won’t stand hard times on
a slow railway. Fats would not be fats
at the end of such a journey. Drought-
stricken cattle would have to be shovelled
out of the trucks—they could not walk.
That was proved with a mob from
Brunette trucked to Yaraka. The railway,
as a means of shifting fat cattle, is as
outmoded as the bullock-dray.
The proposed line would not open up
one acre for closer-settlement. It is not
closer-settlement country. It would not
add one point of rain to the annual fall.
It is extremely doubtful, with a bitumen
road from Mt. Isa to Camooweal, if it
would expedite the delivery of goods or
rations. The thing would be a dead loss
from the time the first engine puffed its
way along.
From experience in the drought of ’26
I know what help a railway can be. I can
also guess what losses are incurred. I
could tell of mobs of drought-stricken
sheep held-up at stations which
had not a blade of grass within sight—
the trains were 48 hours late. I could
tell of a load of sheep which were shunted
into a siding and left there the best part
of 12 hours so a special with railwaymen
on a holiday should have the right of
way. But who am I to oppose poli-
ticians?—H. G. L. (Q.).
Our Speech
It is time action was taken by educa-
tion authorities to ensure that every child
leaving school speaks good .English. In
France, schoolchildren recite the verbs
as our children recite tables. If that
procedure were adopted here, there would
be less of “I done” and “I seen.”
Learning long poems for repetition,
although admirable, is less urgent and
is ironical in the circumstances. Inability
to speak and write English is a tre-
mendous handicap to every man and
woman. It causes inferiority complexes,
class distinction and much personal un-
happiness.
Correction will have to be undertaken
by the schools, but perhaps after one or
two generations of correct speech parents
will be able to take it from there. —
F. H. J. (S.A.).


FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
James Ramsey UlSman
tells the story of a brief and critical period in the life of aa
American doctor who has found his vocation in service to the native
peoples of Papaan, a remote valley in a Pacific Island.
' • WINDOW'S WAT
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
RALPH RASHLEIGH
by James Tucker
Crowded with dramatic action, adventure and salty .humour, this powerful
and authentic story of an adventurer’s colourful career in Australia’s
frontier days is based on fact. Written one hundred years ago, it is now
for the first time published unexpurgated from the original. 18/9 (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-93 Castiereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l.
The autobiography of the ex-Commanist leader
CECIL SHARPLEY
The Great Delusion
A sincere, factual narrative, written without bitterness, and agreeably devoid of
self-dramatisation.
“....a terrible indictment of Communism.”—News Chronicle.
At all Booksellers - - 11/6 :: HEINEMANN
in the book. And the “Send him to New-
castle” had its part in the joke.
The laugh would have been equally
loud, or louder, about the story of the
Campbelltown bushrangers, which is true
in substance except for the embroidery
of horror tacked to it. The wretched
magistrate at Campbelltown had been
forced to make a levee en masse to march
against a band of marauding wretches
which appeared capable of popping up
at will anywhere in the County of Cum-
berland. Greenway would have been all
too conscious of this gang if he journeyed
to Emu Plains in mid-1825 or before they
were rounded up. All travellers and
settlers kept an anxious eye cocked for
them.
The names do not appear in Rashleigh
in a form to identify them among bush-
rangers. No person named Foxley, who
was the leader of the band, was in the
colony within the 1820’s. But there was
John Oxley, Surveyor-General, whom
Mr. Greenway hated with a burning hate,
because he had just then robbed him of
the chance of acquiring a house which
the little architect said Governor Mac-
quarie had given him. The cream of the
joke was that if the bushrangers did burn
a lock-up near Campbelltown, with
the constable and family in it,
it must have been Mr. Oxley’s own
private one —the only one in the
Campbelltown district. " Indeed, in the
book its distance from Campbelltown
(eight miles) is accurately stated. The
other two main bushrangers were also
named for Mr. Greenway’s enemies. One
was named Smith—Mr. Greenway con-
sidered Mr. Smith, the contractor for St.
Luke’s Church, Liverpool, a bushranger
against the Government, one who had
even tried to bribe him to join in the
lobbery of the public funds. And though
there was no bandit named Sandy McCoy
extant, there was in 1826 an equally pious
Colonial Secretary named Sandy
(Alexander) McLeay, another Campbell-
town district landholder, who was engaged
in robbing him of £llOO in professional
fees.
It seems strange that the supposed
author of Rashleigh should deprecate
criticism of the severe Governor
Darling, in whose reign he arrived and
whom all convicts hated, but yet should
gleefully embody in his yam malicious
stories about the gentle, absentminded
Brisbane and the Rev. Samuel Marsden,
about both of whom he relates incidents
which took place in 1823. But this would
be easy to explain in Greenway. Marsden
had been his mortal enemy for 10 years,
Brisbane in November, 1822, had sacked
bun at the instance of the Major Fire-
place (Ovens) who is mentioned in the
novel, and was certainly “Hominy Tom”
to him in his penury. But Darling re-
employed him and was in his good graces.
As in dealing with Campbelltown,
Liverpool and Emu Plains, Mr. Roderick
can only bring surmise to his aid in giv-
ing Tucker the experience to write his
knowledgeable work when he comes to
deal with the last phase of the book, in
which Rashleigh goes to Newcastle and
escapes and makes his way up l the coast
to Cape York. The basis of the story is
the return in 1824 in the Amity of
Richard Parsons—a name of great interest
to Greenway, incidentally—after having
left two shipwrecked companions at
Moreton Bay and made his way alone
500 miles further northward. The theft
of the boat by escaping convicts seem-
ly is based on the theft of the small
cutter Eclipse in the Hunter River on
May 11, 1825. But no explanation is
produced of Tucker’s minute and accurate
knowledge of Nobbys and its guards, and
of the waters and set of currents and
winds at the mouth of the Hunter. He
never lived in Newcastle.
Greenway had a most detailed know-
ledge of these matters—written out in
one of his letters, and obtained when he
made a technical report on that exact
spot preliminary to the building of the
Newcastle breakwater. He knew the place
as well as he knew Liverpool, Campbeil-
town and Windsor and the roads and
short-cuts which in the book are not
those of 1827 and after, but of Mac-
quarie’s day, when Greenway was wander-
ing the countryside on his decrepit
dragoon horse.
He knew about the Leviathan hulk in
which Rashleigh was supposed to have
been immured, because that hell-ship
figured most prominently in Henry Grey
Bennet’s Letter to Viscount Sidmouth in
.1819, a work which impugned Mac-
quarie’s Administration, and in the printed
reply to which Macquarie mentioned
Greenway’s own work most favorably.
A fact which obtrudes is that
Rashleigh’s author cannot write of any-
thing without dealing in detail with the
architectural features of his surroundings.
He notices the ruins of Netley Abbey.
He gives a detailed account of the curious
disposition of drains and underwalls and
sewers which it is necessary ill a City of
London building to penetrate to get to the
strongroom. He knows how an expert
would sheer up the brick wall while
breaking through it to prevent it from
falling down. No edifice or dwelling, not
even the cave in which his bushrangers
hide, escapes description through his
architectural eyes.
Lastly, it is natural that Greenway, a
prominent Mason in the colony, one of
the founders of the first-known locally-
instituted civilian lodge, should habitually
use Masonic phrases and references in
bis writings, as he does.' But it is dis-
tinctly curious that James Tucker, a
Catholic, brought up in a Catholic school,
quotes the Revised Version, makes
Masonic references and writes generally
as a trained Protestant.
I do not know whether a jury would
convict James Tucker, but as a historical
J.P. sitting in the lower court I find that
there is a prima facie case against him,
and commit him for trial on a charge of
stealing and unlawfully converting to his
own use a work of literary merit, to wit,
a novel or part thereof, the property of
Francis Howard Greenway, his heirs and
successors.
Reviewed Briefly
The Far Cry : Emma Smith (Penguin).
A promising first-novel by an author who
went to India with a documentary-fiim-
unit as scriptwriter, which gave her the
background for her story. Teresa Digby,
an English schoolgirl, is rushed away
from school and home by a fussy father
who fears the claims on her of her
divorced mother. A boat-trip and a train-
journey through India are vividly por-
trayed as through the eyes of a sensitive
child. The father and daughter arrive
at their destination, the house of a married
daughter, a tea-garden in the province
of Assam —and the whole background of
India and its people comes to life. The
attitude of a conventional, narrow-minded
Englishman to the country is very well
conveyed, and there is a remarkable
description of a visit to a village of hill-
men where the people all look beautiful
and apparently live Utopian lives. The
thoughts of Teresa, her impressions of
the new life with her relatives in India
and the people she meets there are
presented with extraordinary intensity,
* * * *
The Great Delusion: Cecil Sharpley
(Heinemann). A reprint in book-form of
the revelations about Communism which
appeared in Mr. Sharpley’s articles in the
Melbourne “Herald” and in his evidence
before the Royal Commission on Com-
munism in 1949. The ; book presents an
effective and colorful picture of the type
of youngster whom Communism picks
up and of how it uses him.
* * * ♦ ■ .
Kindred Points: Henry Compton (Allen
and Unwin). A first book of verse by a
young writer who seems to have nothing
very new to say and no very new ways of
saying it. Mr. Compton has, however,
two virtues; firstly, although his ideas are
not particularly original they are clearly
stated ; and, secondly, he is more often
happy than sad.
* * * *
The Viking : Edison Marshall (Shak-
speare Head), A romantic adventure-
story of the period before the Viking
invasions of England had grown beyond
plundering raids. The author appears to
have undertaken a creditable, amount of
research, although this reader has been
unable to find any established historical
basis for the involved plot. The book is
marred by careless, though over elaborate,
writing, and by the unnecessary descrip-
tion of revolting On the
whole, it seems likely to be too detailed
for the reader of pure adventure and
insufficiently convincing for those who
prefer to learn history from its fictional
forms.
* * * *
Noursemen in England: C. O. Med-
worth (Werner Laurie). The South
African cricket team in England in 1951 ;
the author is sports-editor of the “Natal
Mercury.” The title derives from the
skipper of the side, Dudley Nourse. The
book should interest Australian cricket-
followers, as the S’Africans are now here
(even though only half the team touring
Australia went to England). The writing
generally lacks sparkle, but the book has
two useful features not often enough
found in cricket-books—a statistical
appendix and an index.
* * * *
A Dictionary of Theatrical Terms:
Wilfred Granville (Andre Deutch). A
volume in the Language Library, edited
by Eric Partridge. Those who have
thought, with some justification, that the
theatrical language was limited to the
terms “ham” and “darling,” with, latterly,
“corny,” will, be surprised at the extent
of this amusing volume; in which we are
informed that “I knew it. in the bath”
is “an actor’s jocular lament when he
dries up at rehearsals” ; “footlight Fanny”
is “a chorusgirl who, in the back row,
thrusts herself to the front” ; “the nut”
is “the amount of money needed from a
backer to produce the show”; “syl-
slinger” is “an actor with a tendency to
‘elocute’ or mouth his lines” ; “twofers”
are “tickets admitting two people for the
price of one” ; and “uglies” are the Ugly
Sisters ia - “Cinderella.”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 202
Across.
I—A river in Italy has a razor-
sharpener before he finishes a
possessive characteristic. (10)
6—Employer is sure to change. (4)
Blind zeal locates nothing between
the large and the football score.
(7)
u—Honking in addition to the sound
of a small bell. (7)
‘■‘—Poem with which to catch an
... heir. (6)
['Write a label on a figure. (8)
lf> —Still town on the Macintyre River
. is thus unmanned. (3)
n—Let out, but coining back in time.
.. (4)
“'Tipping over a Chinese mile to
Bite what reputable new com-
panies seek at the Stock Exchange.
(7)
-3—Undresses streets named after a
low joint and Diana apparel. (7)
- 4 —Blue is shaken about by the
Channel crossing. (4)
A lubber - 0)
ZB 'A couple of coppers are open-
, hearted. (8)
" -Small particular group of soldiers
~ set apart for a special task. (6)
• 3 ‘—Upstart keeps the disturbed raven
op. (7)
32 — Mother bone has nothing but you
and a Melbourne Cup winner. (7)
33 Indifferent ring by a distress
signal. (2-2)
34 — He teaches you how to act
though often held up in the
movies. (5, 5)
Down.
1 — Morning conveyance runs over
her one who lies waiting. (8)
2 Thalben Ball’s instrument is to
kick the bucket fabric. (8)
3 A film-star named Audrey is to
be at the point of falling for an
adder. (6)
4 American State swallowed by beef
stone. (4)
5 Africans present the family of
mother-of-ten in midsummer. (10)
7 Mean bite, but why finish? (6)
8— -About a polite little fellow who
has a rule for another? (6)
9 Whatever is contained and satis-
fied to study the circus-theatre.
(7)
14 — Five left over —but it means the
same. (3)
15— V’s place for a trial game of
handball enclosure. (5, 5)
19 — Verse of two measures tried me
another way. (7)
20— -Capone and a fruity old-fashioned
actor with a foundation garment
in a Spanish showplace. (8)
21 — Holiday mink on the lake. (8)
22—Intimidate the Kremlin city Mo’s
leaving. (3)
25—Excavates a noted adviser on love
and marriage. (6)
26—Lodges in dressed timber. (6)
27—A decimal system of measurement
encountered Montalban. (6)
30—Sticks up the complacent. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 201


r r
■ . ... ,
V.-f**.
rtMiiiSii
'
%
I- X
*
: «5?:
m
■ ■
m
■; m K
m
I
um i
,1511
p
, ..
i 'i
,
■m.
■
T:€*y%\
m
m
%
M
r^>3
mM
Hi Vi
-*
\
- j
*
ii
ASK FOR
rlyf it I \*s i %
m
mH. 4
' .Hi 1 ' "
iiSgiii
.
ir
■
n
'J
:
m
.
m
TAILORED FROM A
««
' e >"'
,:*■. :: 5' '
: ,
.
I* :
BBi
