

The Bulletin
«The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3775
Wednesday, June 18, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
r T'HE year 1882 was a notable one in
•*- English legal history, for in that year
Queen Victoria opened the Royal Courts
of Justice in London, and for the first
time in history the Courts of the realm
had a home of their own under one roof.
Previously the old independent Courts sat
in Westminster Hall and in. Lincoln’s Inn,
but as this proved to be unsatisfactory
the Government purchased for £1,453,000
the five-acre site of the present Courts
facing the Strand at Temple Bar.
This great mass of white stone with its
many towers and pinnacles is one of the
most noteworthy examples of Gothic
architecture in London and was the
inspiration of the architect, George E.
Street, who made no fewer than three
thousand drawings in his own hand for
the great project. Work commenced in
1874, and the skill and energy of the
architect overcame many problems and
difficulties, but unfortunately he died a
year before his masterpiece was com-
pleted. Much of the cost of the building
was defrayed by unclaimed money paid
into Court by long departed litigants.
The 1100 rooms which comprise the
Law Courts, as they are familiarly known
to Londoners, were connected by over
two miles of corridors, and so intricate
were the architect’s designs that no two
of the thirty-five Courts were built alike.
Beneath them, in the crypt, are the exten-
sive bars and dining rooms for the
refreshment of lawyers and litigants.
The main feature of the interior is the
impressive Central Hall, where the soaring
lines of the walls meet the roof eighty
feet above the floor, which is paved in
mosaic throughout its length of two
hundred feet. The massive doorways,
surmounted by galleries, are linked with
arcading of great beauty and a frieze,
decorated with heraldic shields, runs
below the great lancet windows.
The public are admitted to the Central
Hall only during vacation, but at other
times visitors may attend any of the
trials in progress in the various Courts,
where courtesy, dignity and drama
characterise the daily transactions of the
Royal Courts of Justice.
LONDON’S “LAW COURTS,” A GEM OF GOTHIC ART.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4,


freelance
Write now tor Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
‘HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
tOO Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL — ——
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.152) Age
THE SHADES WILL NOT
VANISH
by Helen Fowler
The story of an unexpected guest
who brought into a family circle a
secret and a deadly mission.
16/- (post 7d.)
THE HOSTESS
COOK BOOK
by Helen Cox
Over 750 party recipes and special
menus for the lone-hand housewife
and business woman. Illustrated.
25/- (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-9 S Castlereagh St., Sydney ;; 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
The Red Page
WEBB ON LEICHHARDT.
Francis Webb’s Leichhardt in Theatre,
now published in book form by Angus
and Robertson five years after it was first
printed in The Bulletin, seems to me
more than to fulfil the promise of
A Drum for Ben Boyd, not only in the
greater passion and profundity of the
long title-poem but also in the correspond-
ing intensity to be found among the
shorter poems: the harsh, powerful
picture of the death of Morgan the bush-
ranger in country as savage as the
criminal, “grey, hunted and murderous;
the tremendous apparition, as art conquers
death, of “The crazy captain, whose eyes
are a flenching knife” in the elegy for
Melville'; the extremes of beauty and
horror amidst the snowfields of “A View
of Montreal”:
Thus: a cold wiry madman of high respect
Showed me a starving man with a rotted
limb,
How words and music had corrupted him; —.
From the web of the senses tumbling, the
intellect
Like a hounded spider tears at itself in hate;
Pity, striding the blast, comes hours too
late—
A view too wasting, white. Then what the
eye tells:
This town founded on water, sink or swim;
Glitter and shadow cruising, the icy glim
Of the St, Lawrence, and the street-car
rails —
Expended, fallen lightnings. A vague and
rare
Craftsmanship, and a league of vacant air.
There are only two faults in the book
worth mentioning. One is an occasional
obscurity; as, for instance, in, the first
stanza of “The Explorer’s Wife” where,
though the total meaning of the poem
is clear enough—the lady is pondering,
with some bitterness, on the failure of
her marriage—no clue whatever is pro-
vided as to the significance of the open-
ing images; they sound like poetry, they
look like poetry, and I think they are
poetry; but the writing, until re-reading
helps to clarify it, is too much like a wall
and not enough like a path, an obstacle
rather than a communication:
Never more than a thought at all.
Fables return: the thunderhead
Reversing what earlier stars had said
For the yellow ears of careened ships:
The clock with its brassy nymph in bed
Ticks blandly back; claims of eclipse
Dispute our somehow lighted wall.
How had I wished it?—more than style
For a malign unplotted mile
Of weathers; stronger than summer’s will.
It does not show now nor hold still.
Perhaps no more than a thought at all.
The obscurity arises partly, from an
overcompactness of expression and partly,
I suspect, from some inclination to false
subtlety, that curious unwillingness of the
author to let the reader know what he
is talking about which we suffer in the
novels of Henry James, Meredith and
Meredith’s Australian disciple, William
Gosse Hay,
But Webb’s obscurities, which can
generally be disentangled with a little of
the patience which such rich and powerful
imagery deserves, are really very mild
difficulties to be discussing in the age of
Pound, Eliot and Auden ; and, while they
may partly be caused by compactness and
a mistaken notion of subtlety, they may
also be an inevitable corollary to one of
the greatest merits of his verse: the
writing of a poet so profoundly original,
so passionately sincere in his search for
the exact words to express his personal
vision of life that, instead of falling into
the facile cliches which the second-rate
writer seizes upon so eagerly, he has to
strain and wrestle with his genius for
every word, almost to create a new
language for himself as he goes along;
certainly a new imagery.
Consider, for instance, the description
of Sturt in the desert which comes into
the Leichhardt poem ; where every word
is pondered, most carefully selected,
wrenched out of vision, and the process
which sometimes results in obscurity
emerges in glittering and resplendent
precision:
The spotlight wanders about, falters for a
moment on Sturt—
Senseless the flare ; he stands blazing in his
own white world.
Light has rapped at his skull, flooded into
his heart,
Shrivelled, consumed him. Light has tracked
and curled
Its searing wake over touch and vision and
retreat.
Still light lashes at his eyes, people are
questioning;
Shall he answer? Open their veins with a
bitter lancet of heat,
Ash in his crucible their ambitions and
trafficking?
The inland sea. Yes! There were sea-
length waves and surge,
Sand’s arched and massive velocities topped
with a foam of glitter;
And where sun grazed salt-glazed rock and
the light’s discharge
Circled its fabulous rings of tremor, there
was water.
Here is the centre of their island. Shall he
tell them of Poole, of death?
The second fault in Leichhardt in
Theatre should not perhaps be counted
as . , a f au lt! but I think it is—a self-
criticism by the poet so ruthless that a
number of admirable short poems are (if
I remember rightly) excluded from the
collection; that “Disaster Bay,” losing
some lovely lyrical writing, has been
reduced to barely a third of the version
that was originally published in The
Bulletin; that the title-poem has lost
its lively “Prologue in a Waxworks,” and
a fierce and visionary section beginning
“Remember that palace in a fading State”
(which I never quite understood in all its
details, but which contained some unfor-
gettable lines), and also the bizarre and
dramatic “Epilogue” in which Leich-
hardt, instead of being left to “drown”
in tragedy as he is in the present version:
Beyond the gates
Only storm, drowned things, rock in the
surly straits—
is restored to his place in the theatre
which the artifice of the poem requires, is
given his heroic immortality as “a
shimmer, clinging, persistent” in the Aus-
tralian mind, and is finally summed-up
not just as a tragic failure but as a
marvellous contribution to the spectacle
of life —“Flares, sawdust, declamation,
Catherine-wheels.”
I hope Webb will restore all these cuts
in some future edition ; most certainly
the “Epilogue,” for it seems vital to the
poem, which rather “tails-off” in the
present version, and in any case lines as
dramatically beautiful as these, so
strangely plunging Leichhardt from the
past and the desert into the midst of the
modern world, cannot possibly be con-
demned to oblivion:
... .Come out, good Doctor,
Misshapen maniac! Come out and blink
With sad extravagance. Walk up and down!
Mumble your specious part, rave into the
night
With honor, courage, ambition—matted
madness,
While the wind plucks at your crazy hair,
while the light
Runs in and out of your head. You are
bric-a-brac,
A child’s worn doll. Hollow. Falling to
pieces.
... .Lights scuttling in all directions
Like hunted spiders; landing-beams switched
on,
Chatter of panic in the wireless.
But, on the roadway,
A shimmer, clinging, persistent.
Agreed that laughter
Will be the last of us some time or other:
Have it not snickering, but many-sided:
Flares, sawdust, declamation, Catherine-
wheels.
Since “A View of Montreal” bears the
ominous word “From” before the title
1 presume that this poem also has been
cut, perhaps heavily (it was written when
Webb was in Canada and I have not seen
the full version). It is still a poem of
considerable length, and is so brilliantly
written that I am inclined to think the
full poem might have been another major
work to rank very close to, if not equal
with, the Ben Boyd and Leichhardt series.
It deals with another explorer, Jacques
Cartier, who “led two voyages from
France to Eastern Canada, but he retired
at a comparatively early age.” The
analysis of a voyager who rejected some
ghostly visitant summoning him to sea
again;
... .like a waterfall in sleep,
Opening and closing his senseless eyes,
wagging his silver
Dankness of hair (this prophet convulsed)
and whistling
Directions to the wind through his wicked
shining teeth . . .
and decided that
Moreover there is little genuine merit in
' dying
Of scurvy among barbarians . . .
makes a very interesting development of
the’theme of heroic genius and disaster
which Webb has explored in the other
two philosophical narratives. No doubt
the glittering fragment we have here
preserves the essence of the poem ; but
the thought of what excellent writing
may have been cut is ■ exceedingly
tantalising.
For the present, however, we must take
the book as it stands; and take it,
especially, for the title-poem, which is its
most sustained piece of writing and the
most interesting theme for Australian
readers: the piercing, extraordinary
analysis of Leichhardt (with some vivid
glimpses of his journeys) as half a hero
and half a fool, and torn with secret
horror when the knowledge of his own
duality is forced upon him.
When I first read the poem in manu-
script it seemed to me looser in form
than A Drum for Ben Boyd, which (in
framework only) was modelled on
Kenneth Slessor’s masterly Five Visions
of Captain Cook. I suppose it is looser.
There is no Slessor guidance here, except
one harmless echo in the “Near stirrup
short, off stirrup long” interlude, which
is necessary for the introduction of
Leichhardt as a clown. But re-reading
it now, the poem seems complete enough
in form. Though the Epilogue is needed
and though more of the third and fatal
journey would have been welcome, we
really have, within the chosen limits of
the poem, a full and rounded study of
Leichhardt in aspiration, triumph and
disaster: within the loose frame and
amongst the violent impetuosity of the
verse there is a form, a completeness.
The quality of the poetry within the
framework I never doubted. It has not
the smoothness and solidity of A Drum
for Ben Boyd, but it goes more penetrat-
ingly into the human heart, it strikes
more deeply, with a wild and beautiful
vehemence transcending the quieter
power of the earlier poem:
So all of you, my friends, have conquered
laughter,
The creased and monstrous painted effigy
That sags and billows behind you: at the
bench,
The typewriter, in the shaving-mirror?
You may write words or ride in omnibuses,
Give lectures, name a river, kill a man,
But always the obscene, the senseless titter
Tenses your shoulder-blades. Start up in
fury,
Double your fist, and strike! Strike till the
painted
Mouth splays with blood, from the glass
goggling eyes
Tears trickle, and the pudgy limbs go loose:
What have you forced but laughter?—tears
of laughter,
The fat doll shaking with it, a giggling
scream
Babbling and fluttering round you. There’s
no violence
Can silence laughter. Well, then, laugh
with the thing!
Which of the two poems is ultimately
the better— Ben Boyd for power and
smoothness or Leichhardt for violence
and magnificence; Ben Boyd as a group
of portraits or Leichhardt as a single deep
vision of the hero—it would be very
hard to say. The point is not really
important : both poems are likely to have
a permanent life in Australian literature.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Where Is the Brennan?
It must be 10 years since, following the
death of C. J. Brennan 10 years pre-
viously,. a project was begun to collect
his writings. A publisher has throughout
been willing to publish them, and
financial help from the Commonwealth
Literary Fund is assured if required.
The 1913 Poems, comprising almost all
that matters of his verse, has been long
out of print, with the result that, although
his poetry has been thought important
enough to warrant four separate mono-
graphs, it has not in any real sense been
available for a quarter of a century. I
and others who have included it in Com-
monwealth Literary Fund lectures at uni-
versities find students eager to read it,
but they cannot do so comprehensively
except at libraries, where it is usually
wanted by a number of them at the same
time. Other people whose interest is
aroused by the high praise given to it
fall back on the snacks in anthologies.
The preparation of the definitive edition
was in the hands of Mr. J. J. Quinn of
Sydney and Professor Chisholm of the
University of Melbourne. The latter long
ago finished his part of the job, which
was chiefly to provide an introduction.
Surely it is of wide concern that the work
of one of our most important poets
should still be unavailable 20 years after
his death.
A re-issue of the 1913 Poems would be
simple enough, and would suffice if the
additional manuscript is to be delayed
indefinitely.
Frederick T. Macartney.
[The Bulletin understands that Mr. Quinn is
still working on the definitive edition, which he
hopes shortly to complete.]
Reviewed Briefly.
The Wilderness Voyage: Peter Grieve
(Cape). Travel in river-boats from Bdrm
at the mouth of the Amazon in Brazil to
the cattle-town of Trinidad in eastern
Bolivia. A pleasant middleweight, full
of water and jungle and Indians, free
from the continuous and intolerable
frisk mess that besets so many con-
temporary travellers, though without the
depth of Hudson or Tomlinson.
* * * *
Soil and Civilisation: Edward Hyams
(Thames and Hudson). An unusually
readable contribution to the many books
now being published on erosion and the
possibility of man’s eating himself off the
earth; distinguished for its smooth prose
style and for the wealth of learning and
information with which the author argues
his theories as to how, from the dawn of
time and in lands all over the globe, the
nature and character of the soil have
shaped the character of the community
living on it and how, in turn, the
character of the community, as it has
developed or degenerated, has shaped the
soil.
* * * *
/ Saw No Sun: J. Delves-Broughton
(Faber). In this Scottish novel, Miss
Delves-Broughton hardly repeats the
success of her English Crimean-war-
period novel, Officer and Gentleman.
That had brilliance of plot and width of
scene ; this is a long and formless account
of the woes of some anti-English Scots
and their women after the Union, but
rests on careful research and a real know-
ledge of the authoress’s country and
literature.
e
The Great Ordeal: Johan Fabricius,
translated from the Dutch by Roy
Edwards, illustrated by the author
(Heinemann). Author of that gay little
Italian novel, Hotel Vesuvius, Fabricius
spent his childhood in Java, and draws
on those memories for this little story of
a dancing-girl who came to live with a
young peasant until rumors drove her
from the village. The boy ran amuck,
and carved himself up with his father's
kris, whereupon the father undertook a
long journey-of-purification, at the end of
which his dead son picked him up, half-
unconscious, and carried him down a
mountain, to be restored as an object of
veneration to the grateful, scandal-
mongering village.
* * ♦ ♦
Children of the Rainbow.: Brian Mc-
Mahon (Macmillan). It is a great pity
that the writer of this novel has allowed
himself to become intoxicated with a
fadlely “pretty-pretty” version of the
Irish idiom. His prose stumbles into all
the pitfalls which such writers as Liam
O’Flaherty (to whom he has been com-
pared by an Irish reviewer), Don Byrne
and Synge managed to avoid. The prose,
lacking contrast between exuberant
romanticism and the relief of a more
astringent style, has no sharpness and be-
comes monotonous. This is the more
regrettable because the theme, setting and
incidents of this novel have the ring of
authenticity. The action takes place in
and around the village of Cloone, a small
community in Southern Ireland which,
having by 1925 recovered to some extent
from the recent “troubles,” will shortly
lose its leader, Finn Dillon, “The King of
Cloone,” in a minor outbreak of civil
disorder. However, Cloone is threatened
more comprehensively by the impact,
delayed but inexorable, of the twentieth
century. McMahon has recorded, almost
at the instant of their final dissolution,
such of its traditional customs, dances and
celebrations, its ballads and social con-
ventions, as remained at that time. There
are excellent characters here, too, and
several memorable scenes; for instance,
the “American Wake” to farewell the
emigrating daughter of a farmer who
must force all his daughters to emigrate
in order that the farm may be saved for
the youngest child, a Son, who will
preserve the family’s name. On the
subject of names it is, perhaps, a fact
that Irish villagers are known to each
other as “Trouble-o’-the-World,” “Mad-
cap O’Neill” and “Shoon Lawlee,” but
in the interests of his novel the author
might have been well advised to modify
at least some of this lushness.


ŕ
ŗ
RUBBER FLOORING DEPARTMENT
FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
.
, ...... ... •
v. ®
m
i
•V ‘VV
i y
i
V n
<rS * I
'I
m
m
. ■■••■ •
4 & V.
■
«• i
V- m
\ f
m
m
■
1.:%
H
■ ■?
■
*«
1
Consider the Economy of
Rubber Flooring
Consider tlie economy of rubber when buying new floorings for though the
initial expense may be a little heavier than you planned at first, its lifetime
of wear will pay you back threefold. Decorative .. . Durable .. . Hygienic .. .
its glossy, non-slip surface will add new life and glamour to your home
and office. Come, choose yours from our Rubber Flooring Department —it has
the largest range in Sydney.
MAKE YOUR SELECTION FROM
THESE DURABLE RUBBERS . . .
f jfk TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ' ;
Anthony Hordern
Australian “Keytone” rubber flooring, in shades of
green, fawn, blue, cherry, rose and rose multicolour.
36in., 40/6 yard.
“Continental” rubber flooring, in shades of light
rose, light green, rust, blue, fawn and mushroom.
36in., 40/9 yard.
British rubber flooring, in light green, blue, cherry,
green, fawn, and rose multicolour. 36in. } 57/3.
British rubber, fawn and brown tile design. 72in. }
126/' yard.
ř
r
ŕ


Agile Giant
Beds Anything.
W.fl. STATE SAW MILLS REPORTS TD-24 THE ONLY
TRACTOR TO CONTINUE LOGGING THROUGH TWO WINTERS
IN AN AREA WITH RAINFALL OF APPROXIMATELY 70 INCHES
TD
24
Here is a statement that typi-
fies the amazing performance
of International TD-24 Trac-
tors. Working with an
Isaccason WO-24 Winchoist,
Front mounted P-15 winch and
Armstrong-Holland Builgrader
equipment, the Internationa!
TD-24 Tractor winches logs
out from difficult positions
and then hauls direct by the
Tractor to the landing stages.
Logging in Western Austra-
lian Karri Country during
winter months with an
average rainfall approximat-
ing 70" is a most difficult task.
Tractors assisted with logging
arches, jinkers and other
mechanical equipment now
perform this work with re-
markable regularity.
This International TD-24 has now
logged successfully for two win-
ters at Pemberton , the largest
mill in the heart of the giant
Karri country , where logs up to
25 ft, girth are encountered.
Industrial Sales and Service
in all States can supply par-
ticulars of the most suitable
International Crawler Tractor
and Armstrong-Hoi land Log-
ging Equipment to help you
work where others previously
failed.
W
m
IH
m
k>..
i.
m
■
**«i
a sS£«w»
BH ill
: ~ W ' \&
U
BBM 'Wf¥& -v.. #
s 8i
Hi
: ■'■‘i.:y;
H
|pH| gfj|
:w
w
. .. ". ■ : , ■
H BHm
. • ■
W®
■ IB
mm
??
mm
Wmmfm
Mm
m
”***
' s^Ssa§g&j
MHK
-> * -* ;:?
_ - ■
|g^„
£
1
Hi
■
m
m
a
I
a
~*‘j
■ H
I
■
m
m
il**»is
fijjliji
■
immr
m
H
' 'V%. - ; HU ';.2
. .
: v-
--
■
International TD-24 still gets out the big
logs, takes tough going in its stride. It’s
the most powerful crawler in the forest.
International TD-24 Hauling Karri on Steep Hillside —
Here is the W.A. State Saw Mills TD-24 Inter-
national Tractor fitted with Armstrong-Hoi land
Builgrader and winching equipment, hauling a
Karri log, approximately 6ft. diameter at the
butt, up a steep hillside.
m r
■
| j
£7
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVONEV MELBOURNE HOBART ADELAIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vo I. 73—No. 3775
Wednesday, Jane 18, 1952
“GET DOWN TO WORK AND LET US FINISH THE JOB!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sidney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
"PEACE" AND TREACHERY.
It is now a year since the United Nations,
in response to an overture by Mr. Malik,
the Russian delegate to U.N.0., agreed
to enter into military negotiations for a
cease-fire along the Korean front.
The overture was peculiar from more
than one point of view. Firstly, the
U.S.S.R. had represented throughout that
it was in no way concerned with the
military activities of the North Koreans.
The second strange feature was
the prompt accord with which
the Chinese acted in the matter
and the effrontery with which the
Chinese forces in North Korea revealed
themselves, when negotiations started, as
a co-ordinated whole and not merely as
a mob of voluntary recruits burning
with a neighborly desire to enlist in the
North Korean forces and save that
country from the brutal capitalists.
China and North Korea behaved in the
matter like automata tied to the same
string, and have continued so to act since.
In the interval between the beginning of
negotiations and the present the domin-
ance of Russia in the alliance has become
clearer and clearer. Every move made
by the Chinese or North Koreans is made
only after the ground has been paved by
Moscow or Bucharest, from which latter
city the Cominform operates. The
Chinese and North Koreans are armed
with Russian arms, served with Russian
transport, covered by Russian front-line
aircraft —whoever is flying them. The
strategy in a military sense is Russian ;
the army formations of the enemy front
are Russian in type, their methods of
approach to battle Russian —e.g., they
use artillery in solid divisions.
The discussions which were to take
place between the North Koreans and
Chinese and the U.N.O. force representa-
tives were not designed to bring about a
peace, but merely a military armistice
which would enable negotiation at
political levels for a settlement of the
whole dispute and the future of Korea.
It was the kind of matter which is usually
arranged in a few days or weeks between
generals, since there are no points to be
decided in such debates except what the
military status quo should be during the
peace parleys.
From the first it seemed clear that the
enemy negotiators had no intention of
coming to an agreement. Issues were
raised by them completely outside the
realm of normal military discussions, and
the whole basis of their proposed arrange-
ment appeared to be that the North
Koreans should be allowed to dominate
the Korean Peninsula, that they should
be permitted to continue building air-
fields to threaten South Korea and Japan,
and that they should have returned to
them prisoners-of-war who had no wish
to return to their territory, or who were
even highly resistant to such a proposi-
tion, they having been forced to fight in
the enemy ranks. But, most of all, that
there could be no peace save by a com-
plete surrender by U.N.O. of all its
Korean objectives.
From the first, also, it was evident that
the whole negotiations had been raised
by the Communists in order to direct the
Panmunjong discussions in such a way as
to persuade the backward Asiatic nations
that U.N.O.’s intentions in Korea were
aggressive against the whole of the Asiatic
continent.
The programme appears to have been
carefully mapped out beforehand. Con-
temporaneously with Moscow’s issue
of a plea for an armistice, a document
was published purporting to come from
an independent European and Asian body
of investigators which accused the
Americans, in particular, of the most
diabolical crimes, such as the burning-
alive of Korean 1 women and children. This
was first circulated not from North
Korean headquarters but from Bucharest.
It was circulated*in Australia one week in
its original Rumanian printing as a special
supplement to the Communist party’s
official organ, the “Tribune.” At the
same time a press, using identical type
with that used by the Foreign Languages
Press in Moscow, was set up in Peking
and began to print “peace” propaganda,
all salted with hatred and designed to
weaken the defences of all U.N.O. nations
by creating dissensions inside them. A
special campaign sought to turn the Allies
against the U.S.A.
Next, a book purporting to be the
report of the trial of certain Japanese
for preparing to undertake bacterio-
logical warfare against the Soviet was
published and distributed throughout the
world—this as a preliminary to another
huge campaign, which must have cost
oceans of money, pursued by printed
word and radio and based on “proofs”
of the alleged use by the United States
of diabolical bacteriological methods
against the innocent North Koreans.
Photographs of wingless mosquitoes
and flying-ants, empty shells, smudges
supposed to represent deadly bacteria, but
which have been proved on investigation
to be mostly unidentifiable blobs, have
been issued by the ton.
It may be easy for any scientist to
laugh at the absurdity of this nonsense.
But it is treated seriously by great brains
like those of the delegates from Australian
unions now visiting Peking and by Dr.
Evatt’s protege, the “Labor” party’s
“intellectual,” Dr. Burton. It is circulated
as gospel by Australian Communists. It
can easily be understood how terrifying
the effect of such a sinister campaign of
lying may be upon the ignorant and
illiterate Asian peoples, who live in mortal
terror at all times of plague and other
lethal epidemics and who are prepared to
accept as fact and believe in anything
they see represented on paper—even in
the possibility of leg-roping and inoculat-
ing with fearsome diseases a few million
mosquitoes or other agile insects.
This vicious and untruthful propa-
ganda has been linked up with a series
of “peace” conferences in Peking the
specific objective of which has been to
attract human material from Australia
and any other soft-shell country which
may be indoctrinated and sent back to act
as witting or unwitting fifth-columns.
These conferences are sponsored in all
recent cases by recipients of the Stalin
Peace Prize.
The whole period of the cease-fire
negotiations has been one of great pre-
paratory military activity on the North
Korean front. The enemy forces have
been doubled. Their holding-lines have
been turned into an immense fortification.
Huge airfields have come into being.
Supplies on a gigantic scale have been
accumulated. In fact, everything the
enemy has done seems to have tended
to prove him bent on making a monkey
of those who unwisely treated him in
good faith, using his war-front as a
training-ground through which thousands
of fliers and hundreds of thousands of
soldiers have passed to be conditioned for
war on a large scale in Korea or else-
where.
And there has been a snarling ferocity
about the Korean side of the negotiations,
a continual atmosphere of menace against
all who are not prepared to obey Moscow
orders and follow Moscow policy, with
Russian military preparations around the
Sea of Japan which can be designed only
to threaten that country. There is a
build-up of military forces in southern
China, Russian-armed as usual, which
may, or may not, be intended to act at
some particular moment already decided
on against Indo-China and the Asian rice-
bowl. All this military movement, com-
bined with Soviet Union preparations
which have been going on in Europe, is
certainly not planned merely for defence.
The whole organisation of the Russian
forces and their composition is planned,
in fact, for mobile offence as to weapons
and every other matter.
It is a situation which cannot persist
in stagnation for very long, whether it
has developed for the purposes of a war
of nerves or for a Third World War. The
U.S.S.R. is still a member of U.N.O. So
are many of its satellites ; but their whole
attitude to U.N.O. is that it must be an
instrument of Russian policy or nothing,
and nothing can be hoped from pacific
negotiations through that body. Russia
has never yet agreed with the
major Powers of the West about
any matter of long-term policy. The
Soviet is nominally at peace with most
of the countries of the world. Ambas-
sadors and Ministers are exchanged. On
the Western side Soviet citizens are wel-
come to come and go as they wish, to
trade as they wish. The only foreigners
allowed into Russia are either traitors
willing to betray their own countries or
soft-heads whom the Russians believe that
they can indoctrinate with their own
propaganda.
On the whole view of the world, Nero
Was a mere piker at fiddling Compared
.Li. -u- f A„of,olionc virl-inQp
with the millions of Australians Whose
main concern is whether 10 per cent, goes
nr ■
OH Or Comes off income tax, whether the
is completely “full employment” even tor
„ t ; ro j t u of . t u M , arp almost lin-
people SO tired that they are almost un
employable. Australian forces are serving
in K'oma and nrp at the receivin2-end
in Korea ana are ai me leceivmg cua
both of Russo-Chmese-Korean guns ana
of Russian slander. Australians are help-
t , „ • „ r u;„v. Uaa
mg to keep down Communism, which has
been bent on including Malaya and its
rubber within the Iron Curtain and on
securing Singapore and adjacent places as
a control-point for sea-routes to the east
and south Pacific and a jumping-off point
for attack on Burma, India and Aus-
tralia. Australians also are shortly to be
serving as an R.A.A.F. wing in the Mcdi-
terranean to help in maintaining our right
to trade through Suez and keep intact
our commercial air links with Europe,
A defence alliance in which we are in-
volved is being shaped at the moment in
thp Papifip anH British Commonwealth
me uacmc, ana urilisn uomnionwcdllll
defence is being anxiously discussed n
T onHon ag it ic in everv Dominion The
Eonaon, as it is m every uomimon. me
Communist party IS carrying on Russia 3
vicious war right in the midst of the
.... ,n . , . . , .
Australian defence industries—transport,
metals, air and fuel, and even in the
• t c ,1 a . 1- , i-
inner circles of the Australian pubi I -
service not yet cleansed of their “nests
of fro itore ”
ux Udiiuis,
But all that seems to matter to the
Swinging VOte which has power to elect
Governments the odd tens of thousands
of irresponsible* who decide election
issues and who seem to be always up for
salmis which party they can dredge most
loaf, licence and luxury out of, Menzies S
or Evatt’s. And this attitude is not con-
~ j . A tc i , ~
fined to the Ignorant or underprivileged.
It has been evident again and again in the
threats of a variety of selfish pressure-
b rp. - , f r u ,
Thinking Australians, however must
be subject to an ever-present feeling of
insecurity. They must feel that the solid
ground under them is deadly thin and
5 .. , . ;v. J
aaiiy becoming tmnner.
Chifley Answers Evatt.
Mr. Menzies has carried British
Ministers and his London public audi-
ences with him in his explanations of the
Commonwealth Government’s enforced
temporary cuts of British imports ; and
his advocacy of comprehensive and
systematic consultations for joint and
sustained British Commonwealth action
“towards the great goal of convertibility”
of sterling again places the objective of all
Governments concerned squarely in front
of them. That objective is the restoration
of economic health and strength to the
sterling area —which includes this con-
tinent.
The struggle to avert a collapse of
sterling was appreciated by the late Mr.
Chifley, but it means less than nothing
to the present Australian “Labor” leader.
Dr. Evatt’s attacks on the reigning
Government’s actions are an abuse of any
claim he may make to political integrity
and a complete rejection of the course
Mr. Chifley charted in four successive
Budget statements. Moreover, Mr. Chifley
revealed that no post-war Australian
Government has any option but to act
very carefully in regard to the sterling
balances. In his Budget speech on
November 14, 1946, after saying that
the visible development of our basic
secondary industry “depends entirely on
achieving a higher all-round standard of
efficiency and productivity,” and “failure
in this respect would involve painful
adjustments once the present scarcity
demand has been satisfied,” he explained:
Under the financial agreement with
U.S.A. signed on December 6, 1945, the
U.K. Government is committed to approach
Australia and other members of the
sterling area for an arrangement with
regard to the sterling balances. The future
availability of these funds, taken with the
earnings of our export trade, will mainly
determine our future capacity to purchase
imports, of which we need considerably
more than pre-war quantities.
That is to say, a condition of the grant
of American financial aid to the sterling
area was that all British Commonwealth
Governments should preserve the inter-
national standing of sterling as their prime
obligation. This is the business which
Mr. Menzies declared in London last
week wants much more “comprehensive
and constant consultation.” Mr. Chifley
was in London about it in 1946 and 1948
and sent Mr. Dedman again in 1949. He
said in his Budget speech, on September
19, 1947:
1 talked over the matter of the uteriiug
balances with the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer when I was in London last year.
Subsequently I arranged for the Secretary
to the Treasury to proceed to London for
further discussions. As a result of these
discussions the Prime Minister of the U.K.
suggested to me that Australia could help
them most in their jjresent difficulties if
we would take it as a broad objective to
live within our external income, and, if
necessary, TO RESTRICT IMPORTS
FROM ALL SOURCES, and so avoid the
need to call upon our accumulated London
funds. This did not overlook the possi-
bility that our export income might in
adverse circumstances turn downwards, so
far that it would be inadequate to pay
for even a minimum of essential imports....
Taking all factors into account the Gov-
ernment thought that this would he a
reasonable arrangement. It is the kind of
thing we would have tried to do in any
case, because every day makes more evident
the urgent nature of U.K. needs....
If our export prospects deteriorate it
may be necessary to Impose overall import
cuts in order to carry out our undertaking
to the U.K.
If there is any contrition in Dr. Evatt’s
make-up he should have wept some back-
slider’s tears at the Chifley tomb last
Sunday. He pretends to the public that
only resolute and decisive (but unspeci-
fied) local action is wanted to put the
trading finances straight. Well, Mr.
Chifley in his Budget speech of September
8, 1948, was still baffled, but clear-
headed enough in his understanding of
the supreme sterling-area problem:
The U.Kj is for us and for many
countries the heart and centre of the eco-
nomic world U.K. reserves have fallen
to a point at which they are not far above
the minimum which must be held as a
working balance if the whole network of
trade which centres upon the U.K. is to
be carried on. Since Australia has de-
pended upon London to furnish its net
dollar requirements this situation is of the
most vital consequences to us. EVery dollar
we spend above our earnings:—normally
Australia spends more dollars than it
earns—must come from the central pool of
gold and dollars. We therefore have the
clearest responsibility....
The position is that a number of Euro-
pean countries are practically as short of
sterling as they are of dollars, and it has
become urgently necessary to find means
of financing their sterling deficits so that
they may maintain their purchases from
the sterling area In one form or an-
other the U.K. will be making a large
contribution towards the sterling needs of
Europe, and this contribution will be made
on behalf of the whole sterling area.
Because Australia has important markets
in Europe we stand to benefit from any
measure which improves and sustains the
external buying-power of European
countries.
Mr. Chifley’s last Budget speech
(September 7, 1949) foreshadowed
developments of today:
It would be wrong to ignore the diffi-
culties to which developments within our
own economy could lead. Some industries,
encouraged by the buoyant conditions of
recent years, may tend to develop capacity
too great for prospective demand.
If that does not concede the need for a
diversion of employment, what does it
mean?
The gold and dollar reserves of the U.K.
have fallen sharply in recent months and
are now considerably below the level re-
garded as a safe minimum.... When these
adverse changes had become apparent the
F.M. of the U.K. invited Ministers from
sterling countries and from Canada to attend
a conference in London. Following this
invitation, but before the conference, there
were discussions at which the Secretary
to the U.S. Treasury had a part.
At the London conference, at which Aus-
tralia was represented by Mr. Dedman,
long-term aspects of the problem were con-
sidered, and agreement was reached as to
major objectives to be pursued. In par-
ticular it was thought that. .. .the strength
and stability of sterling as an inter-
national currency should be a major goal.
U.K. had previously announced inten-
tion to cut dollar inixiorts by 35 per cent.
Representatives of other sterling countries
agreed to recommend to their Governments
. action designed to achieve comparable
results....
As early as his 1946 Budget Mr. Chifley
seemed to have some prescience of In-
creasing trouble with the States, and
addressed himself to the financing of
States’ works programmes in words that
make Dr. Evatt today look silly:
Works activity must be integrated with
the general economic and employment
situation. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, in co-operation with the State Gov-
ernments through the Loan Council, is
seeking methods by which to achieve an
appropriate balance in the demands made
upon our total physical resources by
private expenditures on the one hand and
public expenditures, especially works ex-
penditures, on the other hand. Failure
to achieve this balance can mean either
falling incomes and unemployment, or else
that excessive competition for resources,
with consequent pressure upon prices and
costs, which is the real cause of inflation.
Financial control is exercised through
budgetary measures in the widest sense,
and the adjustment of loan-works pro-
grammes is the main instrument through
which this balancing of expenditures can
be accomplished.
Treasurer Fadden couldn’t say it better
if he quoted these words to the coming
Loan Council meeting.
Dr. Evatt apparently regards with
scorn some of the last words of his late
chief—“ ‘Labor’s’ great leader”—spoken
in Parliament as Leader of the Opposition
on the Supply Bill at the end of 1950:
I shall express the view of the “Labor”
party, and in doing so I shall not be in
the least concerned about what people
think of it politically... .Australia will
not win the struggle against inflation by
adopting piffling measures... .Neither this
nor any other Government can be blamed
for the inflationary elements... .Upon
measures which I believe should be
taken.... every man in public life who has
a sense of responsibility must give serious
consideration to the country’s honor, eco-
nomy, prestige and standing abroad and
to the heritage of its future citizens.
I hope the [Menzies] Government will do
something to correct the present disturbed
state of our economy, irrespective of
whether such action will be popular or
unpopular.
It has taken the unpopular, courageous
course; but J, B. Chifley’s successor
prefers to kick it in the shins at every
available opportunity rather than offer
even grudging co-operation in the struggle
to maintain national solvency and the
Australian standard of living.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The A.W.U.
The Australian Workers’ Union has taken
little part in N. S. Wales “Labor politics
tor many years. It has refused to link
itself with the mob of Communists,
ex-Communists and plain and fancy
adventurers who have run the A.L.P. s
affairs during the last»decade.
For all the publicity it has had of the
kind which keeps bodies like the Water-
siders and the Federated Clerks and the
Iron and Steel and Building Industry
unions in the limelight it might not have
been there at all. It has never sent a
delegation to Russia. It has never had a
go-slow strike, or a rolling-strike or a
strike in reverse. It has no members on
the central committee of the Communist
party or on the “peace committees.’ It
has never been refused the use of the
Sydney Town Hall, and it is never heard
of trying to invade Canberra in special
trains with a view to intimidating Parlia-
ments.
But the astonishing fact is that, though
a very large proportion of the newspaper-
reading public have come to believe that
it has been reduced to the rank of a
backwoods union, out-of-date and gradu-
ally losing grip and influence, the A.W.U.
emains the biggest, financially-strongest
and best-supported union in the Com-
monwealth. It discourages industrial
stoppages. It concedes the right of the
employer to a fair day’s work. It stands
3y arbitration as an overall policy and
is still a supporter of White Australia.
It prospers as no Communist-led
union can prosper. Its 500,000 workers
are on the average the best paid, taking
year for year, of any in the Common-
wealth. Its officials get the best wages,
and though it is militant it confines its
militancy to getting the best deal possible
for the workers and not for the Kremlin.
After a period of aloofness from
politics in the State which dominates
“Labor” politics and provides the country
with its Evatts, Wards, Haylens and Dan
Curtins, it is being forced back into the
political field in a big way. When its
influence is really felt there should be a
healthier atmosphere, less room for Com-
munist adventurers and for the shabby
kind of politician who decorates N.S.W.
State politics.
Also its influence should go a long way
in reducing the powers of busybody
organisations like the A.C.T.U. —origin-
ally a conception of the Communist party,
which claims to have founded it —and
the “Trades and Labor Councils” which
always provide the extremist with a forum
in which to air his views and sometimes
with machinery for interfering with
defence and production.
The A.W.U.’s outlook is not perfect
by any means. Like everything else in
industrial organisation it is still, with its
policies, in process of evolution. But its
trends are towards development of effi-
ciency and a responsible outlook on the
part of the employee as well as the
employer.
Keeping Its Promises.
Treasurer Fadden’s review of his
financial intentions should have been re-
ceived with apologies by the “S. M.
Herald” and other stern critics who were
sure that his policy of last year’s Budget
would not work and that it had put the
skids under the economic system. How-
ever, there are no apologies and no cheers
at his proposed relaxation of restrictions;
the critics have been proved very largely
wrong and they don’t like being wrong.
The view put forward by the critics is that
whatever has been achieved that the
Commonwealth Government planned to
achieve has come about in spite of it.
There is no doubt, however, that what-
ever ungenerous view is taken, much of
what was hoped for has eventuated.
Monthly-average production figures in the
key industries —black coal, iron and steel,
clay-bricks, timber and other building
materials —speak for themselves over the
last quarter:
Jan.-Mch., Jan.-Mch.,
1952. 1951.
Black coal, tons .. .. 1,476,000 1,089,000
Cement, tons .. .. 99,000 89,400
Clay-bricks 62,000,000 49,800,000
Superphosphate, tons.. 141,200 128,600
Pig-iron, tons 125,800 91,000
Ingot-steel, tons . . 132,400 99,200
Blooms and billets, tons 117,700 89,900
Sawn native timber output for the
quarter showed a rise from 91,700,000
super-feet monthly to 120,000,000 super-
feet.
There is no doubt that the Govern-
ment’s measures disciplined the type
of union and employee who were getting
out of hand. The power to control
ballots, which its amendments to the
Arbitration Act gave to moderate
unionists, has called a halt to the domina-
tion of large key unions by Communists,
and the difference in union attitudes is
already noticeable in the iron trades, from
which'Left leadership has been excised,
and in the coal industries, whose Red
leaders are very chary of tempting the
rank-and-file to repeat what is being done
in the Federated Clerks and other unions.
Inflation also has been halted,
even if there is still some way to go in
throwing off the inevitable temporary
effects of the sudden and urgent clamp-
ing-down on imports. There is more pro-
duced per man-hour than there was last
year, there is less wild investment on the
Stock Exchanges, and prices are nearer
real values. Trades-people in the big
cities have lost much of that arrogant
independence which had been a feature of
the past decade. And workers are be-
ginning to realise that there will now be
a preference for skill and willingness to
do a fair day’s work.
The Cabinet apparently thinks that
the time has arrived when it can give
some relief in taxation, both direct and
indirect and in other ways. The exact
nature of the relief is not yet decided
upon in detail, but the daily Press is fol-
lowing its usual technique of guessing at
everything and hoping it will be right.
Whatever is given will be welcome and a
matter for congratulation.
When Money Gives Out.
There is weeping and wailing and gnash-
ing of Cain-McDonald teeth in Victoria
over the slackening-down of work on
Eildon Weir and the dismissal of 800
employees who have been living in the
paradise of their model township with
fat wages from seven hours’ overtime a
week and a 10 to 15 per cent, bonus
“incentive” from the contracting Utah
Construction Company. For next
year Half-Premier McDonald wanted
£6,000,000 to spend there, can get
only £3,000,000, and “the cut will
delay completion for more than six
years.” It is “all Menzies’s fault” for
not supplying the money, says Mr. Mc-
Donald.
Nice work if you can get it, of course,
on about £3O a week. But it can t
go on for ever, especially with un-
controlled works programmes under un-
controlled inflation. Most of the dis-
missed men belong to the A.W.U., and
even the Victorian secretary of that union
blames not Menzies but the McDonald
“Government” for the dismissals. That
Government, says Mr. Davis, is running
a finance racket to make out a case for
the allocation of more finance for Vic-
toria There should be an immediate
showdown on the question of State
developmental works, and departmental
administration, much of'it conducted in-
efficiently.”
As for more money to spend, how does
Mr. McDonald propose to raise it? His
State Electricity Commission million
at 4i per cent.) was undersubscribed by
about a third ; in N.S.W. Premier Cahill’s
Water Board has raised a lament at the
shyness of the investor at the same
figure; and Brisbane City Council last
week had to borrow £ly million from the
Commonwealth Bank to pay current
wages. These are projects in “Labor”-
controlled States and have no more to do
with the Commonwealth Government
than the spots on the sun.
At this juncture the A.L.P. in Sydney
saw the appropriate moment to carry a
resolution to pay all elected local-govern-
ment aldermen and councillors £5 a week
“allowance,” and Dr. Evatt fulminates
through the radio that “only Labor can
manage the national finances.”
Disillusion of Socialism.
Mr. Menzies, at ceremonial functions in
his honor in London (June 5):
This is no time for pessimism, for divided
counsels, apology, for feelings of
inferiority ,
The disease from which the free world
is suffering is the disease of uncertainty
and pessimism. Until we have blown this
away we .shall not begin to be what we
ought to be at all times.
Mr. Churchill, at London Press Asso-
ciation luncheon (June 11):
The streets of Britain are full; the people
cheerful. I have never seen a people look
better, more carefree. I wonder whether
they have realised the treacherous trapdoor
on which it all stands.
Britain is fighting for her survival as an
independent, self-supporting nation. It is
an alert I am sounding—more than an
alert, an alarm. Without realisation of our
economic position in all parties and by all
classes we shall find it very hard to reach
that security without which all that we have
achieved might quite rapidly become
nothing.
I would not use these hard words it 1
were not sure that vital forces in the
British race throughout the Empire and
Commonwealth have only to be roused to
conquer At the moment our head is
above water... .but we cannot be satisfied
with that.
To what extent is there any basic con-
flict in these exhortations? It might be
said that Mr. Churchill carried on from
where Mr. Menzies left off. It might also
be said that the elder man reflects in his
utterance —and perhaps feels personally
the greater staleness from long privations
of the home British people. Also, Mr.
Menzies was speaking as a visitor, and
therefore would eschew “hard words.
But he also had a constructive proposal-
on the face of it. It is, in effect: “We
have each in our separate ways been
trying for seven post-war years to get
back to some economic stability ; let us
get down to a close and extended con-
sultation of our troubles and work out
a solution in unison for our common
good.”
This, or something like it, has been
said before. It is defeated always by the
fact that the two communities, however
much their problems from a detached
viewpoint have in common, are in fact
separated by the width of the world,
and by the further point that, when in
both countries political parties are
bitterly divided on the local course to be
pursued, it is hard to see how any
durable single policy is to be devised
which will rally all of them together.
There is no common policy even at home.
Least of all is there any such hope under
perpetual rebellion against Government-
controlled economy in each part.
Excessive taxation breeds economic
pessimism and fans the “class-war. The
enormous burdens of the Socialistic
“Welfare State” idea forbid any reduc-
tion of heavy taxation. Till disillusion-
ment becomes more general, Mr. Menzies
meets the situation here at home with
“You can have all this ‘social security
as long as you are willing to pay for it;
but payment for it in taxation and pro-
duction there must be.”
—
The Breed Holds Good.
A couple of years or so ago two young
Queenslanders got married. He had a
small dairy-farm ; she gave up school-
teaching to join him. Husband and wire
had no airy illusions about life on the
land, and none about dairy-farming, since
both were the children of farmers.
For a while things went pretty well with
them. Then came the Queensland drought
of late 1951 and early 1952. The follow-
ing is an extract from the young wife s
letter to a friend:
The drought has driven many farmers to
seek other employment, so here we are now
living in a forestry camp, and Hubby is
now a forestry employee. He began here
at the beginning of February, and 1 fol-
lowed when the baby was five weeks old.
It is a reserve in our district, so we re not
very far from home. We like it very much,
and have a comfortable “rig” of timber and
tents. The drought is over, but its effects
will be felt for a long time yet. So many
dairy-cattle have died that herds are too
small for share-farming.
Strangely, the rest of her letter had to
do with her baby and other private
matters. No whingeing, no yelping that
the Government should do something
about it, no blaming Menzies or Fadden
or Gair or anything else. Forced to
leave their home and live in “a comfort-
able rig of timber and tents,” she and
her husband are evidently as full of
optimism as ever, and looking forward
cheerfully to the time when dairy herds
will be restored and share-farming can
be resumed.
To read such a letter is real refresh-
ment to anybody whose ears are con-
tinuously dinned by the yelping of
organised sections and party politicians.
It proves that there are still bold and
cheerful hearts in Australia, ready to
face what comes and relying on their
own efforts to get them what they want.
More should be heard of such people, for
there are plenty of them.
They Wouldn't Be Told.
i he Prime Minister will be back in time
to attend a Premiers’ Conference in Can-
berra on July 7 and 8. If the six
Premiers have the ability to feel anything
they should find it pretty hard to look
the Prime Minister in the eye.
It’s only a few weeks since he told
them, at a Loan Council meeting, that
the loan market and the Federal Govern-
ment would not be able to provide them
with more than £lBO million for this
financial year. They overruled this advice
by deciding on a total works programme
of £274 million.
Since then attempts to raise money by
public loans have failed. Sydney Water
Board and Vic, State Electricity Com-
mission loans, in which the public were
asked to subscribe a total of £5.25 million
at 4| p.c., were not filled. Brisbane City
Council is nearly broke, and when last
heard of was trying to borrow a million
or so from the Commonwealth Bank to
pay its wages, after being turned down by
the Queensland State Treasurer. In Tas-
mania Premier Cosgrove said the State
would have to sack 2500 men for want of
loan funds. In South Australia the Gov-
ernment has had to bump up freights and
fares.
All of which means that Menzies was
right and the Premiers wrong. It also
means that the authorities which launched
their loans were misled by the Premiers
into believing that they, and not Menzies,
knew the financial state of affairs. It
further means that too many people have
been listening to “Labor” propaganda
and to the wounded cries of concerns
hit by credit restrictions.
Menzies isn’t the kind of man to say
“I told you so.” He’s more likely to
see what can be done to help the distressed
gentlemen. All the same, it’s about time
some of them got off his back.
End of the "Golden Age."
Noting that the number of people
employed by Governments in Australia
rose from 405,000 in 1939 to 683,000 last
year, N.S.W. Graziers’ Association
morosely points out that this is an increase
of about 69 p.c., whereas the entire popu-
lation-increase in the same time was about
21 p.c. The association is concerned
about several aspects of this, and not
least about the growth and power of “a
bureaucracy which has already slowed
down national effort and initiative, and
which is likely to improve its ability to
do so with every month that passes.”
It may cheer the graziers to know that
all the signs point to a shortening of Gov-
ernment employment and benevolence —
a reduction which, if not anticipated and
prepared for, could cause much serious
trouble before the mess is cleared up.
Buyer-resistance is now too obvious to
be ignored. Practically all household lines
save those under board control are
cheaper.. Shops are plastered with cloth-
ing reductions. Household appliances like
refrigerators, washing-machines, radios,
etc., are now in oversupply. It is evident
that, for the most part, commodity prices
are either stable or falling.
Even more significant are statements
from Victoria that house-building costs
are down 5 p.c., that many builders tender
for the same job without the usual clauses
about fluctuating wages and material
costs, that houses are being built in two-
thirds of the time. And from N.S.W. that
up to 12 million bricks are in stock, some
brickyards have stopped production, and
timber-yards have stacks of timber on
hand.
Loud complaints are being heard about
all this, but not from the consumers. And
such outfits as State building-materials
control boards must be feeling a cold
draught, since the only reason for their
existence —shortage of materials —has
disappeared.
All of which means, pretty plainly,
that taxation revenue will fall an( i
Governments will find it impossible
to continue to employ four people
to do what two did formerly, or to
maintain departments created by
socialistic theories, or to continue to
hand out benevolence right and left in
the form of social service, subsidies and
jobs for all without increasing taxation.
The time for that is past, too. Private
industry and commerce managed to carry
the huge burden of supporting hordes of
Government employees while the financial
picnic was in full swing. Now that it is
over and Governments will have to do
with less money, they’ll have to get along
with fewer employees and less public
benevolence.
The sooner they realise tljat and act
accordingly the sooner will Australia stop
teetering between private enterprise and
Socialism, the sooner will industry be
relieved of the deadweight of depart-
mental interference, and the sooner will
the people wake from the fantastic
illusion that picnics can be made to last
for ever.
Brisbane's New State.
One of the normal arguments used
against the development of new States
is that they create fresh legislatures, of
which there are already too many in the
Commonwealth.
That argument does not seem to apply
in the municipal field. Brisbane is an
example. Well within living memory that
city and its environs were governed by
little bands of honorary aldermen who
did not even receive their fares to meet-
ings, whose only perquisite was in the
mayoral cupboard, and who did a fine
job generally with limited resources.
Then came the Greater Brisbane
scheme, approved by the ratepayers in
the belief that it was going to cut out
waste and duplication, concentrate effort
and correlate planning of the whole area
and thus make for economy.
A City Hall, which to date has cost
going on for £2,000,000 in one way and
(Continued on next page.}


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONE Y BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE.”
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
fflj
ii
111
I
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
ŗ
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
42 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEV.
£3B/10/-
+ 12% % sales tax
*
BW 8631.
another, was one of the first evidences of
economy—in the jubilee year of 1909 the
roof nearly came off the old one when it
was proposed to build a structure with
all the facilities of the present one for
about £250,000. Now it has begun to
dawn on the citizens that, though the
whole area hasn’t yet got sewerage and
that water-supply is primitive as compared
with that in some other cities of the same
size elsewhere, it has a council which has
turned itself into a Parliament with
leaders, whips, caucuses and caucus-
rooms, not to mention salaries larger than
those paid to members of the State Par-
liament until after World War I.
The council has 9500 employees and
budgeted this, year to spend £19,000,000.
Last week it was broke, unable to pay
its next fortnight’s salaries (£300,000),
repudiated by the State Govern-
ment, which refused to help or
couldn’t help, and compelled to send its
Lord Mayor and Town Clerk to Sydney
to wait on the Commonwealth Bank’s
doormat.
What it does with 9500 employees
Heaven alone knows, but it would be safe
to say that a very large number of them
could be decanted into productive
industry without causing much loss to
the ratepayers.
The week these facts came to light a
demand was made in N. S. Wales that
all municipal councillors and aldermen
should be placed on the same basis as
those in Brisbane and receive salaries. If
the N. S. Wales public agrees to this plan
it will deserve all it gets. Municipalities
in “Labor” States differ from Parlia-
ments in that they are elected on
manhood-suffrage, largely by persons who
have no direct taxable interest in their
operations but are paid for by the taxation
of only a small proportion of the popula-
tion—the property-owners. Municipal
government as it is conceived by
“Labor” democracy is therefore based
on the responsibility of the Gov-
ernment to somebody other than the
taxpayers. And that is a most iniquitous
principle. If there is to be manhood-
suffrage and compulsory voting at muni-
cipal elections and paid councils there
should also be manhood taxation —in
other words, universal liability for rates.
And if only ratepayers were allowed to
be aldermen they would be more careful
with the cash.
POLITICAL POINTS
On July 7 the Premiers will gather at
Canberra to be told what tax-reimburse-
ments they can expect in 1952-53 under
the uniform-tax scheme. After which, if
previous form is any guide, they will rush
back to their capitals and bump up
freights and fares and put the blame on
Menzies. There’s cold wind blowing
from the taxation poles, and Common-
wealth tax authorities would be foolish
to ignore it.
Premier Cahill recently told the N.S.W.
Cabinet that if the loan-market was
buoyant they would be able to spend £B5
million on works and housing in the
coming financial year; otherwise £53
million would be the figure. Buoyant!
Sydney Water Board and Vic. State Elec-
tricity loans at 4-|- p.c. have both failed
badly, Brisbane City Council is broke,
and Tasmania has had to put off 2500
Government employees for want of loan-
money.
In the matter of credit-policy the
Federal Treasurer has pointed out that
since July last year the Commonwealth
Bank, with the concurrence of the
Government, had released to the trading-
banks. from their “special accounts” £225
million, and that additional releases were
being made almost daily, thus enabling
the trading-banks to extend their own
advances. S’Artie expects London funds
to continue to fall for the next few
months, but “by September the seasonal
movement of Government finance will
tend to ease present financial stringencies.”
Rumors of dissension in the ranks of
Federal “Labor” and of rivalry between
Opposition-leader Evatt and his deputy,
Calwell, are completely without founda-
tion. It must be so, because Arthur
himself has said it, adding that the party
is united behind Evatt. Perhaps that’s
why Bert keeps casting anxious glances
over his shoulder.
Solidarity is also the keynote of Vic-
torian “Labor,” according to Barry,
M. who was described a short time
ago by Liberal-leader Norman as the real
leader of the party, Cain being the figure-
head. Barry claims he sees no reason
for Gain’s displacement; he feels sure all ‘
“Labor” members are happy with Cain’s
leadership at the moment. At the
moment? Tomorrow, of course, is
another day.
Evatt minor, tuning-in to his party’s
policy of blaming everything on to the
wicked Federal Government—or perhaps
just waging a private campaign of his
own ; one can never be sure with Clive
—complained that only 547 tenants of
N. S. Wales Housing Commission homes
had accepted the Government’s offer to
sell them their homes. Evatt gave as the
reason;
The reluctance of tenants to purchase the
homes has been brought about by the
calamitous credit-restriction policy of the
Federal Government.
Liberal-leader Treatt thereupon quoted
the Auditor-General’s figures to show that
in the 3 \ years from the announcement
of the selling-scheme to the end of June
last year a total of 235 houses had been
sold. On Evatt’s figures, then, a far
greater number of homes had been sold
in the past 12 months —-during which
credit-restrictions had come into force—
than in the 3} years of easy credit. Clive,
who was busily engaged sacking
R.S.P.C.A. secretaries, made no reply.
There s a lot of unconscious humor in
Government departments. Last week’s
prize went to the N.S.W. price-control
crowd, which announced that it had
approved an increase of 2d. a pound in
the retail price of rice. Apparently they
hadn t heard that Australian housewives
can t buy rice because wild ducks ate
the crop or something and what rice there
is has been grabbed to feed Pacific-
islanders.
The stay-down shale-miners at Glen
Davis (N.S.W.) insist that they intend to
stay underground until the Government
agrees not to close the works. If they, and
others connected with Glen Davis, had
shown as much zeal in trying to make the
enterprise pay, the decision to close might
never have become necessary.
In Victoria and South Australia there
is still an agitation for a State lottery,
and there seems to be a pathetic belief
there that the ticket-and-marble combina-
tion would solve all the money worries
of the public hospitals. Dr. Schlink,
chairman of Sydney’s Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital, who knows as much about
hospital management as any man in Aus-
tralia, could disillusion them. Last week,
commenting that his own hospital would
be £200,000 to the bad by the end of this
month and that the combined deficit of
N. S. Wales hospitals would be about
£l'i million, he said that the Common-
wealth scheme of “self-help, non-profit
insurance by the patient, aided by a like
contribution from the Federal Govern-
ment,” seemed to offer best hopes of
eventual solvency. He considered that if
the State Government, “instead of trying
to get more money by larger lotteries,”
reimposed a means test and allowed
patients to pay according to their means,
hospital worries over finance would be
at an end.
Whatever happens to his scheme, a sen-
tence in Dr. Earle Page’s announcement of
his latest medical-benefits plan will go
into the lexicon of Irish bulls; “The
Commonwealth subsidy will be available
only to those who are willing to insure
themselves and their families against
medical and surgical risks.”
Not only was the Commonwealth
Government’s amending Act to permit
appeals from the Joint Coal Tribunal to
the Arbitration Court refused considera-
tion by the N.S.W. Parliament (a neces-
sary party to the legislation) at the demand
of the Miners’ Federation, but the
miners’ executive also organised stop-
work meetings to protest against it.
The circular conveying instructions for
these stoppages stated;
We have never been an arbitration union,
and we must not become one now if we
want to hold on to our conditions.
For the first week in June the resultant
strikes on the coalfields, mostly on this
political protest, cost the country over
50,000 tons of coal.
The Lands portfolio in N.S.W. is not
the soft plum it was when Squire Tully
held it during the reign of Squire McKell.
Billy Sheahan (member for Burrinjuck)
dropped it when the McGrrrrr rural land-
confiscation (“soldier-settlement”) policy
made things politically unpleasant for
Billy; Renshaw (Castlereagh) was glad
to let it go; the present incumbent,
Hawkins, being M.L.A. for the urban
seat of Newcastle, may be expected to
hold it with less embarrassment.
What a delightful sense of timing these
“Labor” men have! With everybody,
and their own party most of all, bewailing
the drying-up of the loan-wells," and with
ratepayers in every municipality com-
plaining at rising rates, they have jumped
into the ring with a proposal that all
aldermen and councillors in N. S. Wales
should be paid £5 a week “expenses.”
Next municipal elections should be in-
teresting to watch, with one set of candi-
dates offering to look after municipal
affairs “for free” and the “Labor” team
volunteering to do the same work for a
fiver a week.
Dr. Burton, returned after a period in
Peking engaged in what used to be called
“consorting with the enemy,” has brought
with him material supplied by the enemy
scientists “supporting Communist charges
of United Nations use of germ warfare”
which he “intends to hand to Australian
scientists for examination,” and he
declares that “he is not concerned at
this stage with the truth or otherwise of
Communist germ-warfare allegations.”
Someone else might be. There is still a
libel law in this country, and one of these
days some officer concerned in Korea
will throw a thumping writ at one of the
disseminators of this foul stuff.
Miracles do happen. Speaking over
Peking Radio Dr. Burton said: “All
about us is evidence of an enthusiastic
people exercising on one another, through
group discussion and criticism, tre-
mendous social pressure. This has resulted
in a degree of honesty, cleanliness, honest
work, freedom from petty and major
crime, which we could not claim in our
own country.” The same thing was said
by Western visitors who stayed a couple
of weeks in the Flowery Kingdom after
the 1911 revolution. Twenty years later
the poverty, squalor, famine, floods,
pestilences, fighting and corruption under
the new set of warlords and officials were
going on as usual.
J. Beitz, Federal president of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation, who went
to Communist China for the Peking May
Day celebrations, told an Adelaide
reporter that he had been invited “to have
a look around China,” and that there was
no question of conferring with organisa-
tions or individuals there. Just a friendly
tourist trip, apparently, without any
strings. In Sydney “Tribune” Beitz is
quoted along with Melbourne Communist
Bird and another of his fellow-travellers
as being “absolutely convinced” of the
truth of the germ-warfare charges, as
believing that the central aim of Com-
munist China “is peace and friendly rela-
tions with all peoples,” and as urging
Australian trade-unions to develop close
ties with the All China Federation of
Labor, If Beitz didn’t confer with
anyone in Peking these beliefs must have
been injected into him by hypodermic
needle.
Because juries have taken to awarding
fantastic damages in motor-accident
claims most N.S.W. insurance companies
won’t accept third-party risk business,
though the motorist can’t drive his car
unless he. has such a policy. The N.S.W.
Government’s way of correcting the posi-
tion is not to take big claims away from
sentimental juries and give them to judges
to settle, but to practically double the
premiums. That will only make the juries
more pliable.
Colin Clark, writing in “S. M. Herald,”
urges putting an end to uniform taxation,
which he claims is one of the most
disastrous policies that ever came out of
Canberra and has led to State Govern-
ments conducting their financial affairs
with almost unbelievable irresponsibility.
He suggests:
The Commonwealth should announce
that, after a certain date in the near future,
it will no longer collect any taxation on
behalf of the States, and is therefore
reducing all its income-tax rates by about
one-third. Federal tax-collecting machinery
should still be available to the States. There
should be only one tax-return and one
assessment, but taxpayers would receive, in
addition to their Federal figure, a demand
for an additional 30 to 40 p.c. to cover
State tax.
Each State Government would fix its
own percentage, and Clark hopes that this
—or the electors’ reaction to it —would
restore to the States their sense of re-
sponsibility. Maybe it would, but not
while some of the present Governments
stay in office.
The Loan Council has been called some
strange things at times, but the biggest
insult, though doubtless unintentional,
comes from the London “Statesman,”
which in a recent article referred to it as
the Lower Council.
Under new defence budget plans France
will have well on towards a million men
in training in all services and their
accessories by the end of next year. It
has half as many men in Indo-China
holding the flood back from the Asian
ricebowl as the United Nations, combined,
have in Korea. Yet it still has a very
lively battalion in the latter field —and
one that has a reputation for looking for
fight 24 hours a day,
“E. & 0.E.”; If only our Prime
Minister and Premiers could remember
and emulate the late Woodrow Wilson,
who was a more practical man than is
now generally remembered. He once
said, while President of the U.S.A.: “I
shall create no more boards. I find that
most of them are long, wooden and
narrow.”


youß. u\ot*ey back./ '
OWB'S &NO/ fIS/£-fOOT'-CW>l£ m
THE RING-IN.
"One of the ‘glamor-standards’ of the Folies Bergere showgirls to appear on the Tivoli circuit is that they must be 5ft. 10in. tall."


PENFOIDS
★ ★ ★
BRANDY
<0
- \
KnFOLDS
$ ■
•>>
PSQ/53
-
4'<
n? - ?
■ a*
Foresight in regard
to your Estate
What will happen to the Estate
that you have built up over a lifetime,
when your guiding hand is with-
drawn?
Consider the advantages assured
for his dependents by a man who
appoints Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as his Executor and Trustee.
The Company is specially consti-
tuted to carry out its duties. It has a
record of sixty-three years' service to
the community, whose confidence in
its business-like methods and its
courteous,/ sympathetic service has
made it the largest Trustee Company
in the Southern Hemisphere.
If you would have particulars of
the services offered by the Company,
ring B 0377, or write, and make an
'appointment. A Senior Officer will be
pleased to give the information you
desire.
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHTI
SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
H. Y. DOUGLASS. Managing Directs:.
A. G. AT.MYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER'
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £72,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH AND ORANGE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Profits in the Window
Judging by the fact that
Jantzen (Australia), Ltd., won
the prize for the best-presentec
annual accounts for the second
year in succession, one mighi
assume that sex-appeal had some
influence on the adjudicators
appointed by the Australian
Institute of Management, more
especially as the accounts of
Berlei (the corset people) and
Hanro (sweaters) got merit
awards, too. But among those
concerns which also received
awards was Tutt Bryant, Ltd.,
distributor of earthmoving
equipment—and it is hard to
glamorise a bulldozer. Closer
analysis of the prize-winning set
of accounts shows that its merits
go far beyond what pictorial
glamorisation it may have.
Apart from a very clear
presentation of profit-and-loss
and balance - sheet figures,
Jantzen’s 1951 accounts give an
explanatory profit-and-loss state-
ment (with corresponding figures
for the preceding year), starting
with particulars of sales and
other revenue and going through
items of expenditure such as
materials used, overhead, distri-
bution costs, etc., depreciation
and taxation, and finishing with
details of how much of the
remainder went in wages and
salaries to the staff, in dividends
to shareholders, and how much
was retained in the business for
its future extension.
A further summary deals with
assets as well as income and
expenditure, with various com-
parative ratios given—dividends
as a percentage of sales,
remuneration as a
percentage of sales, average
annual earnings per employee,
profit retained in the business
per employee, and total assets
per employee at the end of the
financial year. Most of these
comparisons are again
emphasised in graph form in
another part of the accounts.
The Jantzen accounts indicate
that they are prepared for
employee enlightenment as well
as for the information of share-
holders. Employees, in fact, are
presented in the light of partners
in the business.
The last literal and graphic
representation in the Jantzen
accounts is one showing the
source of increased funds and
their application in the business
during the last year and over the
past five years.
During the presentation of
awards at the institute’s annual
dinner Mr. Norman Bede Rydge
stressed the point that business-
men should not be afraid to take
the stand that there is “honor in
profit” ; Mr. Stan Owens asked
for a wider dissemination of
business facts and figures, as a
matter of industrial public rela-
tions, and mentioned that a com-
pany’s annual report should
show tax liability not merely to
give a guide to the true profit,
but to show all concerned how
much of the earnings of private
enterprise was passing into
governmental hands; and Mr.
O. D. A. Oberg emphasised the
fundamental and urgent need for
harder work in Australia, and
for the suppression of the
“couldn’t-care-less” attitude that
is tending to creep in as a result
of the elimination of incentives
and loss of faith in values. He
mentioned France as a country
in which the doctrine of
“couldn’t-care-less” was wide-
spread. Probably successive
waves of inflation have had a lot
to do with its cultivation.
The Bulletin is in agreement
with Mr. Rydge’s dictum that
“there is honor in profit,” and
with his view that it is an idea
that deserves wide propagation.
There are, of course, excessive
and unjust profits; but where
profit arises from greater pro-
duction, harder work or
increased efficiency it is most
desirable, in the national interest,
that such earning should be
encouraged. Indeed, as has been
stressed in these pages, Australia
at present is suffering very badly
“ Ain't she sweet? Seems a shame to take the money.”
from the fact that it has not
enough production, and that its
businesses and investors are not
gaining enough profit.
Ever since World War I, when
there probably was an excess of
profit-making, there has been a
propaganda campaign (mostly
from the Socialist, Communist
and trade-union sides) against
profits. Even eminent economists
(such as the late Lord Keynes)
have cast some odium on profit-
making, But we have to make
up our minds on one point, and
it is that if we in Australia are
to continue as a private-enter-
prise country we shall have to
see a great deal more production
and real profit arising from our
economic activity. At the present
time we are in a sort of half-
way house between private enter-
prise and Socialism, and feeling
altogether too happy-go-lucky
about it; or, as Mr. Oberg has
put it, there is too much of an
attitude of “couldn’t care less”
when someone tries to present
our real problems to us.
The reason why more profit is
needed from Australian industry
is not so that it will enable the
proprietors of businesses to
smoke more cigars, to ride in
more luxurious motor-cars or
take more trips abroad on luxury
liners. The reason is that indus-
trial profit is the source of much
of the permanent capital required
for industrial expansion. True,
the savings of wage-earners are
a very important item in our
national economy. But wage-
earners, as a rule, are con-
sumers rather than investors,
and their idea of saving runs in
the direction of home-purchase
or something of the kind rather
than towards investment in
industrial shares on the Stock
Exchange. And though savings-
bank deposits amount to a large
figure, they are at best only a
source of temporary capital, and
are usually availed of to the
fullest extent as finance for
public works, not private
enterprise.
The need for higher
“ploughed-back” profit in Aus-
tralian industry has been accen-
tuated by the fall in the buying-
power of money. Neither depre-
ciation allowances nor reserved
profits have been what they seem
for some years now.
The reason why so many
public-body loans are a failure
at present is because we have
not, in Australia, enough pro-
duction or enough profit. Put in
another way, we have not enough
output per head to provide a
surplus above consumer demand
in order to carry out necessary
public works and expand our
industrjal potential. And to that
extent we are also lacking in real
savings.
The Australian Institute of
Management is doing a good
job in the com-
panies which reprcu_.it Aus-
tralian major industries to put
the essential facts of their acti-
vities into easily-digested form
for employee- and public-
relations purposes as well as for
the information of shareholders.
It will be enlightening to a host
of people, for instance, to be
told of the number of share-
holders there are in the majority
of big public companies and how
widely - spread these interests
are, and to be shown what
happens to the profits that are
earned. It will be found that the
large reserves which so many
companies are accused by
demagogues of possessing are
invested in the plant and
machinery that not only provide
more jobs for wage-earners, but
which increase the general
standard of living and make
increased leisure possible.
Tight Money
The undersubscription of the
Victorian State Electricity Com-
mission’s p.c. loan by
£1,250,000 —the amount asked
for was £3,soo,ooo—follows on
the failure of a Sydney Water
Board loan at the same rate of
interest. It points to great diffi-
culty in raising any kind of
money for public works later
this year at current interest-rates
Long-dated 3| p.c. Consols were
changing hands at a little above
£95 last week.
Higher rates of interest are
always asked for in times of
uncertainty and insecurity. But
fixed-interest securities have suf-
fered in public estimation over
the past 12 years because of the
effect inflation has had on the
buying-power of the capital so
locked up and because of the
decline in the market-value of
“gilt-edged” stocks following the
rise of 12s. 6d. per cent, in the
long-term bond rate. Further-
more, there has been a decline
in investible funds in the hands
of the public, which has been
brought home more forcibly
since the policy of checking
inflation was put under way in
Canberra.
Partly, apparently, because of
criticism, partly because of
economic conditions, the central
bank has been releasing the
trading banks’ frozen funds at a
greater rate than hitherto. Over
the fortnight to June 4 releases
totalled £62 million, bringing the
aggregate down to £337 million,
which was £249 million below
the peak of 1951. .
Reports from Canberra last
week suggested that there might
be some easing of taxation dur-
ing the coming financial year,
and there was talk that the Gov-
ernment’s aims with regard to the
halting of inflation had been
achieved. Whatever the Govern-
ment aims, inflation is still a
menace, and if the policy of
cracking inflation is to-be carried
through any easing of tax
and credit policy is likely to be
mostly in the nature of the
temporary easing of a ligature as
in the case of snakebite. If the
patient, after the relief, shows
signs of returning inflation, then
the ligature should be tightened
up. again until there are some
signs that the victim has over-
come the effects of the poison-
ing and is returning to full
industrial health.


established 1868
Contractors to Government. Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
4ns
OSUUJVAtt . /
rixm.
h 7 '*tas Vj'
TRADE MARS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
I Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HBAT> .OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
,AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
msem
■ m
- -
I
■HHH
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
r
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
ŕ
THE POPULAR PEN
wiifet the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart fir Co. Ltd*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
ŗ
DUPLICATOR
Has a» the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost The
■■National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built mntitelj in Australia bj
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Nonnan Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00, (Aust)
Essential Service
Essential to trade development is a Banking
Service, both efficient and prepared to meet each
new opportunity.
Built on the resources and experience of two
Banks, each of which has contributed to Aus-
tralia’s growth for more than a century, A.N.Z.
Bank services are expressly designed to assist in
the promotion of trade.
Today, A.N.Z. Bank is preparing to meet the
needs of tomorrow.
A-N-Z
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
. BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA. Established 1835.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA. Est. 1837.
Over 700 branches and agencies throughout Aus-
tralia, and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818.
Head Office; 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
COME TO ROMANTIC
M**
"vest-pocket"
wonderland
of the East
Magical, fascinating CEYLON
. . . strange land of contrasts,
where East meets West . . .
where the Old World “rubs
shoulders” with the New.
Ceylon is modern in its facilities
for rest and play and yet, so
strangely different in its pat-
tern of life that the tourist
never ceases to wonder at this
unique Eastern Jewel.
The most colourful, most exciting
holiday you could wish for
As you travel through this magic Isle of Spices—by modern
railway or motor —you’ll begin to believe, as legend does, that
Ceylon is truly but forty miles from Paradise. All the glory of
the 'East . . the colour and pageantry of Ceylonese festivals;
awe-inspiring ruins . . . the fine flower of a civilisation 2,500
years old, midst a setting of rare tropical beauty, will make your
tour of Ceylon one you’ll remember all your life.
Plan now for your tour of Ceylon. Choice of
accommodation —luxury hotels or Ceylon’s famous
Resthouses (Tourist Inns). Sporting facilities
include trout fishing in Waltonian waters and deep
sea game fishing, shark-free surfing, golf, and the
famous Colombo Racecourse.
Further information, free maps and literature can be
obtained by writing tc the CEYLON GOVERN-
MENT TOURIST BUREAU, or Travel Agents,
Shipping and Airlines in Australia.
E*
Touts can be booked direct on all Registered Travel Agents through
the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau, free of commission.
CT.4.16
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Exchange Problems
Maoriland’s unbalanced
exchange could stir up a hornet’s
nest, with traders and unofficial
dealers making a lot of trouble
for the Reserve Bank, which is
already deep in difficulty.
Demands for funds are, roughly,
double the amount available, if
allowance is made for unantici-
pated needs which will have to
be faced in the coming months.
What the R.B. doesn’t know—
and Maorilanders can’t guess—
is how much of the aggregate
demand of close to £3OO million
is genuine, and how much should
be discounted because traders
have put in fantastic figures to
allow for heavy marking-down.
The bank is working on a good
deal of flimsy evidence. When
importers, who were scared stiff
a few months ago by the extent
of the import boom, woke up on
April 1 and found tight
exchange-control clamped down,
they rushed in applications for
sterling which would plunge
New Zealand into a super-import
boom if the R.B. could grant the
funds and they meant what they
said.
Still, even if the pent-up
demand is a long way short of
what the bank has been asked
to believe, the shortage may turn
out to be big enough to give
bankers and traders plenty of
worries. For one thing, there's
the risk of leakage of funds
through side channels which
could amount to millions yearly,
and unofficial dealing in
exchange could become a
money-making racket.
Those who, for one reason or
another, have an incentive to
bypass the banks haven’t to go
far to find means to do it. One
of the easiest ways is to buy
securities, mainly bank shares, in
N.Z., for resale in London, as
in the days when cars were
bought by the thousand on a
“no-remittance” basis back in
the latter half of 1951, and
premiums of well over 10 p.c.
are now freely paid for such
funds, with brokers doing the
donkey-work, and the principals
well in the background.
Other methods ready to hand
are by diversion of commissions,
personal receipts, legacy moneys,
immigrants’ capital, interest and
divs. It pays well today to hold
these moneys out of reach of the
banks and to sell them to traders
for windfalls, which make a tidy
capital gain. So long as there is
scarcity of official funds there
will always be some profit to be
made on the side, and Maori-
landers are human enough to
want to make it.
All in all, it wouldn’t surprise
some Maorilanders if the lion’s
share of moneys from these
diverse sources went under-
ground, and nothing more than
a‘ mere trickle found its way into
M. exchange pool to supple-
ment export proceeds. Profit is
the big lure. New Zealand
traders in luxury or unessential
goods can’t resist the temptation
to reap handsome profits on lines
outside price - control, which
reimburse them for any exchange
premiums they might pay and
leaVe a good rake-off besides.
Much less objectionable from
all points of view is the move by
some British and other overseas
suppliers of M.L.’s valuable
market who have agreed—in
return for a reasonable con-
sideration—to keep trade flowing
by leaving funds to build up in
N. banks until the time comes
when they can be transferred.
It’s a suspense-account against
N.Z.’s future exchange earnings,
and will have to be reckoned
with later on, but probably it’s
the least disturbing of all ways
of dealing with the ticklish situa-
tion. Or, perhaps, better still from
N.Z.’s standpoint, some concerns
keen to establish, consolidate or
extend their interests in the
“shaky isles” have chosen to
invest the proceeds there. Just
how much this will benefit
Maoriland will depend on the
types of goods supplied and the
direction industrial development
takes.
-
Interest Rates
Interest - pegging in New
Zealand has developed into an
endurance-test, with the Govern-
ment valiantly, obstinately or
blindly making a last-ditch stand
on the basic 3 p.c. and other
related rates that ruled in the
prosperity-cum-inflation years,
but became merely nominal
when the banks put an end to
easy credit late last year. It’s an
unreal atmosphere for borrowers
and lenders as market rates rise
while the Government doggedly
refuses to budge from the old
levels, and Maorilanders have
been asking how much longer
this can go on.
Unlike Mr. Menzies’s Govern-
ment, Mr. Holland’s doesn’t have
to borrow this year, and it’s this
that makes all the difference be-
tween official rates on opposite
sides of the Tasman. Tax wind-
falls netted as a result of the
import boom have filled the
coffers of M.L.’s Treasury to
overflowing—with a surplus of
£NZI6.2 million for the year to
March 31, against £B| million
last year —and the flow hasn’t
stopped yet, so there’s enough
to meet all demands, capital
outlay as well, for at least
the next six to nine months.
That’s a happy position to
be in, and at first glance
it might seem that Mr.
Holland could sit back and snap
his fingers at the market, but
other borrowers who can’t raise
a cent at ruling rates are kick-
ing. M.L. local-governing and
regional authorities who
normally pay \ p.c. above gilt-
edged haven’t been able to get a
hearing on the open market this
year at 3i p.c., which is all
they’re allowed to offer, and
mortgage borrowers have been
feeling the squeeze, too. Insur-
ance cos. switching funds from
gilts to mortgages have been
looking for yields close to 5 p.c.,
and tighter credit has been
helping them.
Lenders have the upper-hand
again, although officialdom
won’t admit it, and borrowers,
foremost among them under-
capitalised M.L. industrial and
trading concerns, now have to
reckon with dearer money—if
they can get it—on top of still-
rising costs for labor and
materials, and high taxes.
Maoriland Newspapers
In the race against costs, news-
paper cos. in New Zealand have
so far had the best of it, by a
neck or a short head ; but the
going is harder the higher prices
soar.
Under price-control, which
doesn’t peg costs, profits are
bound up with turnover, and
the balance depends largely on
the supply of the basic raw
material, also on its price. If
there’s enough newsprint to turn
out a daily of respectable size
the cos. have a chance, but for
13 years now they have been
rationed on a more-or-less hand-
to-mouth basis. They would
have been in the red in the latest
year but for the rise of a penny
to 3d. in the price of all N.Z.
dailies in May, 1951. Now
they’re banking on costs level-
ling out before the benefit of
that rise vanishes, and there are
some favorable signs.
Over the past four years the
cost of producing dailies and
periodicals had been nearly
doubled, said Edward Anderson,
retiring chairman of N.Z. News-
papers, Ltd., lately. A small part
of that increase came from ex-
pansion in circulations, but the
lion’s share of it from dearer
materials and higher wage bills.
New ways of checking mounting
expenses were being sought con-
stantly, but, although some suc-
cesses had been recorded, they
had been obscured by further in -
creases in other directions. That,
of course, has not been an
isolated experience. Other M.L.
industries have had much the
same struggle, with somewhat
similar results.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
ř
“I only Want the crossword !”
pursuing the guilty couple and firing a
small-bore rifle at the philanderer, with
the idea, he said, of giving him a “hell
of a fright.” The bullet struck the
running man in the backside. My
neighbor used a shorter word, probably
gleaned from Chaucer, to describe the
seat of the wound, and commented that
the fellow had been shot there,
“just like a garden thrush.” What
puzzles me is why that part of
a garden thrush’s anatomy is selectee
by marksmen as their target? An
is only a garden thrush shot ther
and, anyway, how does a garden thrus
differ from any other kind of thrush?
* * * *
“Darwinite”; Darwin is to have
brewery, and even the most rabid te
totallers in the north are quite open!
in favor. Reason is that it will mea
that barrels of beer will no longer hav
chief priority on shipping-space, as ha
been the case for years. At present, full
two-thirds of the cargo-space on the boat
is taken up with beer-barrels ; but one
the Darwin brewery gets into full swin
there will be no need for this, and then
will be more space available for th
carriage of essential foodstuffs. This wil
mean fewer shortages and a better dea
for the folk of the north.
* * * *
“Becks”: A novel note has been intro
duced into rain-making reports by the
complaints of a U.S. Senator againsi
official attempts to produce rain to order.
The protesting Senator lives in Michigan,
and the rainmaking experiments are be-
ing conducted in New Mexico, well over
1000 miles away. He complains that the
rainmakers spray chemicals into cloud
formations in New Mexico in the early
part of each week and that the rain
descends upon Michigan every weekend,
to the dismay of tourist agencies, sporting
bodies and, in fact, the vast body of
normal citizens who, in Michigan as in
this country, spend most of the week
praying for a fine weekend. Maybe his
complaint is well-founded; maybe
Michigan is merely due for a wet trot,
but the report raises the interesting
thought: so far all the efforts of science
to influence rain seem to have been
directed towards making it fall. There
are plenty of districts, even in Australia,
where the need is not so much for rain-
making as for chasing the rain away.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”; Apropos the Boronia level-
crossing disaster. Why don’t trains have
horns instead of a penny-whistle that
can only be heard under the best condi-
tions? A hom that could be heard for
half a mile would give motorists audible
warning when the visual was lacking.
In my experience, motorists react to sound
much more quickly than they do to
sight.
* * * *
“Clooter”: It’s all very fine to talk
about Menzies and Stalin and Neville
Sellwood and these fellows, but when is
somebody going to do something about
the careless habits of schoolteachers? I
see where one of them went and married
some lady, cherished her for several years,
possibly encouraged some of her ideas,
and now she’s broke loose with mobs of
Marching Girls, It started up in Lismore
(N.S.W.) and the thing has spread way
down to the Murray. Known as Girls’
Marching Clubs or some such name, the
scheme gathers all the young and robust
females in a district, and the next thing
people know is bands of them marching
about the roads. Sort of bands of hope
I suppose, and I strongly disbelieve that
the aim of the club is, as claimed to
engender friendship and good health and
teach the girls first-aid and so forth No
man, and particularly no single man, can
rest easy when young women start march-
ing about the place in organised herds,
Marching has been the male prerogative
from the beginning of human time, and
though the women’s march on Versailles
changed the order temporarily it wasn’t
for long. I don’t mind lady conductors,
doctors, lawyers, police and what have
you, but it’s coming to something when
the country roads become infested with
young things on the march. Could you
get “Mat’s Mate” to send me his mate’s
address? I want to warn him.
$ * * *
“Norther”: It might take a Govern-
ment department a long time to get any-
thing done, but it seems to take a dashed
longer time to get things undone. In a
Queensland coal-town a jury-list was
challenged on its legality, whereupon it
came out that during the war the C.P.S.
had received Ministerial instructions not
“The most permanent home-site in the harbor—this ship's Waiting
for a berth.”
to impress coalminers for jury-service.
Since the instruction had not been re-
pealed he had continued excluding them.
* * * *
“Hacksmith”; Regarding the vanity
of criminals (B. 7/5/’52). Perth Public
Library has a wonderful stack-room of
bound volumes of newspapers, through
which, with one exception, the research-
worker may plod without finding any
but a very occasional mutilation. The
exception is “Truth,” of John Norton
days, which specialised in the lurid
reporting of even trivial court-cases. In
the volumes of “Truth” one finds many
of the pages almost like lace, so many
cuttings have been taken. Librarian’s
explanation: in more trusting days free
access was given to the stack-room, with
the result that every criminal, big-noise
or petty thief, drifted along to collect the
account of his case: to be treasured,
possibly exhibited, for the rest of his
life.
* * * *
“Hist”: The Burl Ives of a hundred
years hence will seek in vain for the folk-
songs of our times. The spread of
civilisation has destroyed the conditions
which created folksongs, which are the
songs of isolation, of small groups of
humanity, thrown upon their own re-
sources for entertainment, making their
own music, and weaving their folk-lore
into verse. The walls of their isolation
have been broken down by the radio,
though the gramophone probably started
the trend. Nowadays the crofter in his
glen, the drover at his campfire, the cow-
boy on the range—all have canned music
at the turn of a knob. Tinpan Alley
provides for all, and the singing of the
people is silenced.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Johnny Ray, the sob-
singer who sings in a bath of his own
emotions, has hit on a device as old as
Pompeii. It was in the ruins of one of
that city’s two theatres that the lachry-
matories were discovered which research
disclosed were bottles supplied to the
feminine customers of the theatre to weep
in whenever an actor had touched their
heart-strings. The bottles were collected
after a performance, their contents care-
fully measured, the number of pints
divided by the number of bottles and the
current rain-gauge average communicated
by the management to the Pompeiian
“Daily Dishwash,” whereupon the actor
responsible for the deluge went to his
employers and demanded a rise in wages.
Johnny broke all previous records at a
recent New York concert when hundreds
of his admirers rushed from the theatre
with streaming faces. Johnny was just
about to claim a hundred thousand
dollars when the police informed him that
some prankster had uncorked a bottle
of tear-gas while he was singing “Broken-
hearted.”
* * * *
“O. U. Dudelsack”; Contrary to
“A.L.’s” authorities who attribute “O
Tannenbaum” —our old friend “O Mary-
land” and the “Red Flag”—to G. W.
Fink and A. Zamack, my edition of the
Deutscher Liedschatz (Edition Peters)
gives the credit for the modern version
““Tannebaum” by the way, not
“Tannenbaum”—to Ernst Anschutz and
the date ds 1824, but says thatnt is “nach
einem Volkslied,” after an old folk-
song. Differences of opinion are prob-
ably due to a variation in words. While
the modern version sticks to the subject
of “Tannenbaum” throughout its verses,
the old folk version has cynical remarks
to make about fickle maidens, the night-
ingale and its habits and the brook in
the valley and its changeability with the
seasons. In fact, the old song seems to
be like a lot of other popular ones from
“He’s a Jolly Good Fella” onwards; as
to air it is “Volkweise” —folk air; as to
words, it is like the “Dying Dragoon,”
who, in Australia, is “The Dying Stock-
man.” You hear it at its best sung in
the “Red Flag” version in Japanese by
a smoky roomful of students who have
had one over the eight in sake.
* * * «
“C.Q.”: According to a N.Y. cable,
Thomas Dunbabin, an Australian
journalist who is now Australian Press
attache in Canada, has discovered letters
from William Grenville, who was Secre-
tary of State for Colonies in 1790, to
Governor Phillip, ordering him to send
two ships with 30 soldiers and an unstated
number of convicts from N.S.W. to
colonise that part of Canada’s Pacific
coast now known as British Columbia.
Dunbabin published his findings in the
“British Columbia Historical Quarterly.”
Whether the orders failed to reach Phillip
or whether Grenville changed his mind,
the new Pilgrim Fathers never set sail, so
British Columbia escaped what Kipling
called “our birth-stain.”
.»* * «
“Flickers”: Curious how the monster
created by one Frankenstein in Mary
Shelley’s weird tale is often given the
name of its originator. In South Aus-
tralia the film “Frankenstein” has been
released after a 20-year ban. The
manager of one cinema publicised the film
with a stunt which called for someone
to appear as the monster. But his adver-
tisement read, “A tall man required to
appear as Frankenstein.” The British
Film Institute’s magazine, “Sight and
Sound,” recently included a still of the
monster captioned “Karloff as Franken-
stein.” Film sequels with titles such as
“The Bride of Frankenstein” also tend
to perpetuate the error*
MONEY FOR JAM.
(Another Folksong.)
r
ŕ
SWILLIAM.


“L.S.M.”: A learned but non-
technical friend commissioned me
to fix up his radio-set, and I found
that excess noise was caused by a dirty
volume-control. As I did not have on
hand the necessary tools or carbon
tetrachloride for cleaning, I performed
the function provisionally with a piece of
toilet-paper attached to a match-stick.
As the result was satisfactory, and the
noise eliminated, I returned the set, a
beautifully-toned job, to its owner. He
was delighted with the result and, after
thanking me, remarked how modern
technical equipment had revolutionised
all phases of repair-work.
•h
“E. & 0.E.”; Bright ideas for making
everyone better off without having to
work for it crop up at intervals. One
of these, popular in the early 1920’5, was
that increase in our population would so
divide the burden of taxation —if 500
people paid £5 each, a thousand people
would pay only £2 10s. and so on —that
very soon, with sufficient increase, no one
would pay much at all. It was a fascinat-
ing idea —until one realised that most of
the immigrants coming here had left their
own too-well-populated countries in the
hope of finding greater prosperity in a
new land where there would be fewer
to share it.
* * »
“Hamfat”: A liberal award of com-
pensation to a de facto wife for the loss
of her breadwinner stirred a thought
about how much de fact os owe to Pinero,
the playwright. Pinero dealt largely in
‘Drive back to the station, miss, and I’ll give you a motor-cycle permit.”
problem plays; they were good plays,
too, though because the problems they
dealt with have long since been settled,
they were too “dated” for modern
production. Anyway, he treated ihe
“other woman” sympathetically, pre-
senting a case for her that must
have had a big effect in softening
the stern moralities of the time for the
changes that were to come. “The Second
Mrs. Tanqueray” was always a house-
filler with the Broughs. The lady had
been in the de facto class before Tan-
queray, having bpried his first wife, de-
scribed as “all ice and black velvet,”
tried the experiment of making an honest
woman of her, the play being the tragical
story of a really nice woman in conflict
with a world that refused to condone
her past. That Hollywood has not dis-
covered the Pinero plays is surprising; it
would probably spoil them in bringing
them up to date ; but the material is there.
* * * *
“Emjai”; One more item to complete
the equipment of the old Melbourne
cable-tram conductors —the all-important
bell-punch-cash-register. As each fare
was paid one of the long safety-pinned
slips, of varied colors according to fare
unit, which hung on the conductor’s
breast, was punched “in the presence of
the passenger,” who listened for the
“ting” of the bell. No tickets were issued,
except that sheets of “city” tickets and
books of scholars’ vouchers could be
bought, and these as presented were simi-
larly bell-punched and speared on separate
safety-pins. The bell-punch recorded the
number of “tings,” which a bit of account-
ancy at the depot checked with the
punched slips and tickets and balanced--
with the cash turned in. Simple, and
no mess. But scalers were few in those
days. Apparently the ethics of the
travelling public were near snow-white,
for I recall the tramful of horror at the
crime of a youth bowled out with another
scholar’s uon-transferable vouchers. Any -
way, today it would need a fire-alarm on
the bell-punch to register above the
clatter of the city.
“Collins-street” gives due praise:
Laugh at the defunct cable-trams if you will,
but hats off to the generation which built them.
Owing to the continuous groove down the
centre between the rails, sleepers could not be
used; each rail was supported on a solid bed
of concrete. The ; tunnel along which the cable
travelled was large enough for a man to crawl
on hands and knees, Every 11yds. carried a
9in. cast-iron pulley, over which the cable
travelled. Built of concrete, the tunnel, in
the form of an arch, with a gropve down the
keystone, had to be solid enough to carry
all street - traffic brewery - lorries, delivery -
wagons, etc. The gripper-groove was always a
problem. To prevent crumbling the edges were
reinforced with steel angle-iron supported by
steel stanchions embedded in the concrete walls
of the tunnel. This groove had to be narrow
enough so that the narrowest tyred buggy
should not slip down, yet wide enough to afford
play for the gripper. The paving of wood-
blocks between the rails complicated matters:
winter rains caused swelling, which at times
partly closed the groove. An elastic packing
had to be devised to counter this. Cables were
highly flexible, of six strands, each strand being
of a number of fine steel wires. Expert splicers
were employed, each splice being about 60ft.
long, and done so neatly as to offer no “bundle”
to the taking-hold or release of the gripper;
done so expertly that to anyone but the expert
such a splice could not be detected. Breaks
occasionally occurred, and were repaired often
in the narrow confines of the tunnel. Cables
were long: the one from Flinders-street to the
Brunswick terminus and back measured 32,000 ft.
Driving-power came from twin-cylinder engines,
cylinders being 20in. to 24in. in diameter with
up to a 48in. stroke. Steam, 1001 b. to the
square inch, came from water-tube or marine-
type fire-tube boilers. These, together with giant
wheels and pulleys, were housed in huge brick
power-houses, the vibrations from which made
the ground tremble. A marvellous work,
financed and built by a Melbourne of the 1880’s,
with a population of 400,000,
* * * *
“Bo”: “Boris Godounov,” Moussorg-
sky’s opera at present being given by the
N.S.W. Conservatorium School, has a
curious history. The composer’s original
version was rejected by the Imperial
Theatre, St. Petersburg. He therefore
created a part for a woman, and added
the “Polish scenes.” This was accepted
and the opera produced about 15 times in
the seven years before Moussorgsky’s
death ; then it was withdrawn, for reasons
never divulged, and lay neglected until
15 years later Rimsky-Korsakov, Mous-
sorgsky’s friend and fellow-member of the
“Five,” sweepingly revised it, bringing to
its orchestration unquestioned brilliance.
This version was a great success. In
1908 he made a second version—the one
Chaliapin sang with unparalleled mastery
and which is now sung in the opera-
houses of the world. But doubts began
to be voiced as to the extent of Rimsky-
Korsakov’s ministrations, and in 1928 the
Soviet Government released from the
archives a definitive edition of Mous-
sorgsky’s original score, and it was then
seen that what Rimsky-Korsakov had
SHOES
REPAIRED
WHILE
u
WAIT^
“Sorry! There goes the dinner-gong."
really done was to emasculate a work of
tremendous power; that the composer
had intended it to be hard and relentless,
to paint the tragedy of Russia in sombre
tones. Perhaps it is no coincidence that
Boris’s character strikingly resembles
Macbeth —both are men of great energy
and gifts driven to murder by an over-
weening ambition, their minds both
corroded by strong remorse. And all the
pathos of the serfs is summed up by both
Pushkin and Moussorgsky when the
imbecile boy, one of a starving crowd
begging Boris for bread, weeps in the
snow and utters a prophecy of the black-
ness of doom about to descend on Russia.
* * * *
“Clem Lack”: Those “Sydney Ducks”
(B. 4/6/’52) who terrorised San Francisco
in the ’fifties were also known as “Sydney
Coves,” after the part of the city which
was their favorite haunt. First man to
be hanged by the San Francisco Vigilantes
in 1851 was John Jenkins, a “Sydney
Cove.” Many of the Coves or Ducks
were deported back to Australia by the
Vigilantes.
* * * *
“Bamekaw”; Perhaps someone can tell
me if the bugler is going the way of
cavalry, puttees, emu-feathers and a few
other trappings once considered essential
to an army. A century or so back the
private soldier was illiterate, and couldn’t
tell the time, even if he owned a watch ;
and the air of any military camp must
have been cacophonous with the bugle-
calls that marked every passing hour. I
believe there were more than two hun-
dred calls, though some must have
been for rare occasions. By 1939 the
horn-blower was fading away. I met
one or two, mostly World War I veterans,
in my rookie days ; but by the end of
that argument most camps were playing
records over amplifiers, while in forward
areas a bash on a gong or the S.M.’s
whistle did the trick when the troops were
required to assemble.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: As a change from the
monotony of peace-talk news from Korea
came a cable announcing the unveiling
of a statue to Admiral Lee Soon Shin,
a Korean sailor who is credited with the
invention of the first iron battleship. He
is supposed to have built it 360 years
ago, when the Japanese invaded his
country ; records say he wiped out their
wooden fleet with an ironclad “tortoise”
boat. A rebuke from Moscow is expected
any moment, as it is well known that
Admiral Gotsuchakoff built such a ship
100 years before him and used it in the
White Sea against the Hindus.
s}; * $
“Nakhoda”: Strangest twist to what
seemed a mad escapade —artist lan Fair-
weather’s drift from Darwin to Timor on
a 6ft. raft —is the claim of Dr. Leonard
Adam, the anthropologist and authority
on primitive art at Melbourne University,
that by his hair-raising trip the Mel-
. bourne artist proved that the Australian
aboriginal migrated heie from Timor.
It has always been held impossible for
the Australian aborigine to have come by
sea because of his lack of water-transport,
He was supposed to have hiked it ovei-
land when this continent was land-linked
with Asia. Whether he intended to or
not and knowing him 1 should say that
he hadn t the slightest interest in the
problem—Fairweathei has proved that
the crossing could be made by raft in
one direction, and, as the currents and
the winds switch in the reverse direction
every season, there is no reason to deny
that the first Australian might have been
an abo. who was climbing a coconut-palm
or something with his family when it fell
into the water and the next landfall they
made was Darwin.
... * * *
“C.A.A.”: After interrupting a broad-
cast to announce the verdict in a murder-
trial the announcer on a Victorian radio
went on: “And now we shall continue
with Sankey’s sacred songs.”
* * * #
“Pat”: The shifting status of thp
sexes, notable for some time in profes-
sions and industries, has entered private
life. English neighbors invited us in to
look over the renovations and additions
they had made to their cottage. We
admired the beautifully embroidered
cushions and hand-worked tapestries in
the lounge-room, and Mr. X took a bow
for our praise. He also took it for the
delicious rum cake served for supper and
for the home-made preserves we carried
home. On the other hand Mrs. X got
full marks for the smoothly-cropped
front lawn, the clean, polished car, the
cocktail she shook up, and a couple of
intricate tax problems she explained.
They are a happy and successful couple.
SF * * *
“Ceg”: When a vellum-bound book
was offered to the Melbourne National
Gallery some years ago and refused, the
opportunity of acquiring a dinkum his-
torical relic was missed. The book was
bought by a well-known Melbourne
dealer, Frank Godden, who gave the
trustees the opportunity of acquiring it
for the collection. After much examina-
tion it was turned down; apparently an
erasure on the title-page raised suspicion,
but a powerful magnifying glass used by
the ultimate purchaser showed that the
letters “A. 8.” had been rubbed out and
the word “Captain” written over in
another hand. What was the book? It
was the log of H.M.S. Beagle, and
covered a period of twelve months. And
the name of the captain? —James Cook.
*
“Percy Pawnticket”: In those days
when a shave cost 6d. and a haircut a
bob (it has been even less), barbers eager
for customers used to decorate their win-
dows with signs such as “No waiting ;
eight hands employed” or “Eight expert
hands ready for you.” They meant, or
course, that there were four barbers. Such
signs are seldom seen nowadays, and it
is not merely because common use made
them stale and unprofitable that they
disappeared. A nark who had become
angered at a long wait went to the police
with a complaint about a “misleading
advertisement” which had induced him
to enter the barber’s shop and so miss
his tram and several important appoint-
ments. He had to take the case himselt
by summons, and he got very little satis-
faction from it; but the magistrate
warned the hairdresser that he was taking
a risk, and if he figured in another case
might be fined. After that the razor-
wielders decided that the window-slogans
were not worth the candle.
A DESIRED EMULATION.
“Dr. Hans Weinert, Professor of Anthropology at
KW University, says chimpanzees beat their wives
once a day but lead a highly moral life compared
with humans.”
When a chimpanzee gets long in the tooth
He never deceives his wife,
Nor tries to recapture his flaming youth
By leading a double life.
He keeps no glamorous “fairy” in
Some discreetly distant tree;
He’s a paragon of self-discipline.
It would horrify him to be living in sin.
No, he’s not like you or me.
We were all like that long aeons ago
When we had prehensile tails
(For Charlie Darwin’s theory, you know,
In general still prevails).
But we got too uppish to live in trees,
So our caudal appendage we dropped,
As we did the habit of chasing fleas
In public. But, unlike the chimpanzees,
Our moral code badly flopped.
Our human degeneration is such
1 We’re afraid to belt our wives.
It’s just that in us the simian touch
No longer—alas!—survives.
Kindly take note, next time at the zoo,
Of the envious looks men give
As they watch the masculine chimp set to
And render his missus black and blue—
For it’s his prerogative.
He never does it in anger, mind,
Nor hits her merely from spite.
It doesn’t establish that he’s unkind —
It’s simply a daily rite.
He knows—none better —that to abstain
Would mean quite a prestige loss.
Moreover, she’d feel neglected, that’s plain,
If he didn’t sock her now and again;
And it shows that he’s still the boss!
We’ve taught the chimp how to ride a bike.
How to dress up, and wear a hat;
Beer and ice-cream and smokes to like.
Fellow-humans, let’s stop at that!
Don’t let the poor devil get like us.
And, when next at a chimp, you gape,
Don’t see in him only the ludicrous.
For your thoughts might profitably run thus:
It might pay us to ape the ape.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


0
/
-
*
.
: :
-
• In 14 beautiful colours, to tone
with modern car interiors.
ot 60
r FROM YOUR I.oCAi
GARAGE
ŕ
ŗ
ř
FOR EVERY
PAINTING JOB!
r
A portable unit for
oil, water paints,
lacquers quickly
and easily applied
at a pressure up to
30 lbs. Supplied complete
with 1 h.p. Amplion motor
or as 32V. or 100 V. D.C.
model for lighting sets. Three nozzles
fan type, fine spotting type and angle
type for ceilings. Air chuck for tyre
pumping can be supplied.
Also available as electric 240 V. A.C.
model.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty
Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Topp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H, Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH. W.A.
J. W. EfIRNSHfiW PTY. LTD.
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney-'Phone X 83950
SO LONG SIDDIE
by FRANK SARAO
AT that time, before he got
drenched one day and
landed in hospital with
pneumonia, Paul was
messenger for a motor-parts
firm. He carried gaskets and
axles on his pushbike, nine
hours a day, for fifteen shillings
a week. In those days a job was
a job, and, in fact, when Paul
went back to the firm after the
pneumonia, his had gone. That
was a depressed year. Paul was
fifteen then.
Times have changed since, and
so perhaps have people, although
that’s not certain.
Paul rode his bike home one
evening to Paddington, where his
father rented two small rooms
on the second floor of a house
in the middle of a long terrace.
There he cooked his dinner, and
from there, when his old man
didn’t come home, he went out
and caught a tram to Darling-
hurst and walked down to Spud’s
place at the ’Loo.
It was a hot night, and Spud
was sitting with his grandmother
on the gasbox on the street-front
veranda, shouting hoarse endear-
ments at a girl’s head and
shoulders framed in a lighted
window across the lane.
“It’s about time,” Spud said
when he saw Paul.
“What’s on?” Paul asked,
pushing open the broken picket-
gate.
“Wait here while I climb into
a shirt,” Spud told him.
Paul looked at the grand-
mother, all skin and bones, and
nodded and gave her a bit of a
grin. This was the same grand-
mother who in later years was to
have the iron awning of a shop
fall on her while she was shelter-
ing from the rain. And damn-all
compensation from the owners,
because somehow the manner of
her death wasn’t covered in the
law.
“A nice night,” the grand-
mother said.
Paul said “Yair.” He stood
with his back to the front wall
and looked over ther#, but the
girl had gone from the window.
Then Paul lit a cigarette and
inhaled the smoke. And
coughed.
“Waste of good money,” she
said, the old chook.
SPUD came out and charged
on to the street, with a
“Come on!” over his shoulder.
So Paul had to follow.
“Got to go and see a mate of
mine up the road,” Spud said,
walking fast on short legs.
“What for?”
“Oh, just a visit.”
“Where do we go then? Up
the park, or down the markets?”
“You won’t catch me near the
markets for a week or two after
last night,” Spud said. “Wasn’t
the old Chow hostile? But that
cop, he’ll be laying for the mob
now.”
“We might go up the park,
then?” Paul suggested. “What
was that girl’s name? Bonnie?”
“Want to watch yourself with
her,” Spud told him. “That’s
Frankie Speare’s shiela.”
“Who’s he?”
“Don’t you read the papers?”
Spud said. “Go round here.”
That took them into Bourke-
street, where the old gossips were
strong, and drunks wandered
down from the pubs. Somebody
emptied a dish of water from one
of the balconies, and further on
a door opened and a bloke shot
out and turned and swore at a
woman inside!
“I’ll put Tom on to you, if
you ever come near here again,”
she yelled at him.
“Don’t worry, I’ll be back,”
he shouted, and walked down the
hill. The woman slammed the
door.
“A bit different to the
country,” Spud remarked over
again, although Paul had been
down three months or so.
But it was all different, and
had been even before he’d met
Spud and started to live. And
that had begun one day at Bondi
when this little nugget of a
bloke leaned over the esplanade
rail with a bike in his hands, and
said “Catch the grid, will you?”
and dropped it down to him. It
was a new bike, and Spud
wanted someone to mind it while
he was in the surf. Since then
Spud had taken Paul the rounds
of the ’Loo, the Cross, Darling-
hurst, Redfern, Surry Hills, the
Haymarket, Hyde Park and other
odd parts of town where the
gangs walked around at night.
‘‘ T" HIS bloke we’re going to
* see,” Spud said, “he’s been
ordered out of Dario.”
“Yair?”
“And I want to see him before
he goes.”
“How d’ you mean, ordered
out?” Paul asked.
“The cops, of course,”
“What’s he done?”
“Done?” Spud said. “He’s a
real crim., this bloke. Carries
a gun.” Across William-street,
and Spud went on “They’re boot-
ing all the crims out of Dario.
You wasn’t here when they got
stuck into the razor mobs?”
“That’s a while ago, but we
read about it.”
“Well, the cops move in about
once a year now, and all the
known crims leave town,” Spud
said, and laughed.
The street - lights glowed
stronger in the dusk as Paul
walked beside Spud up the hill
and into a lane where a terrace
of houses on one side faced a
high brick wall on the other.
There were kids under the single
light at the lane’s end, and Paul
thought there might be trouble
when Spud sang out “Hey,
Marjie, come here! ”
But a girl in the crowd just
yelled back “What d’ you want?”
“Come here a minute,” he
told her, and she left the other
kids and came over.
“This is a friend of mine, Paul
Wines,” Spud said. And out of
the blue, “He’d like you to go
to the pictures with him some-
time.”
“I’ve got a boy - friend,
thanks,” the girl said, not
bothering to look at Paul. “Was
that all you wanted?”
She was turning away, but
Spud grabbed her arm. Paul
looked at the kids under the
light, but none of them seemed
interested. “Listen, is your old
man home?” Spud asked.
“No, he went out.”
“All right if we go and see a
mate of mine upstairs?”
“The front door’s open,” she
said.
“Why the hell didn’t you say
so in the first place?” Spud said,
and let her go. “Come on,” he
told Paul. And added, as they
went into the house, “She’s a
nice girl, that.”
“Sure,” said Paul, with an
older one with red hair and a
swinging walk and a beaut,
laugh in mind. One Sunday
night on an amble with Spud
through Hyde Park, and she was
Frankie Speare’s girl. The little
tragedies were the hardest.
“I hope he’s in a good mood,”
Spud said, going up the narrow
stairs.
“I’ll wait out in the hall,”
Paul decided. The house gave
him the creeps. The walls
seemed to lean in, and a red silk
shade with bead-strings dimmed
the one light upstairs. The whole
joint smelt like a mildewed
orange.
“No, you’ll be right,” Spud
told him.
Spud knocked soft on a door.
For quite a while there was no
sound. Only Paul’s heart
thumping.
“It’s Spud, Are you there,
Siddie?” Knock, knock.
“He might have gone,” Paul
said hopefully, and Spud gave
him a dirty look. Then Spud
tried the knob and the door
opened.
OVER Spud’s shoulder Paul
saw a man sitting on a bed.
He had his feet on the floor and
one hand flat on the pink blanket
and the other just about under
the pillow. He was looking
straight at Paul.
“Come in,” he said when his
eyes moved to Spud. “Who’s
your mate?”
“Just a friend of mine from
Paddo,” Spud said easily. “Paul,
shake hands with Siddie Fenten.”
“I suppose you’ve heard of
me?” Siddie said. He had a
moist hand. Paul, who never
looked people in the eye if he
could help it, noticed a thin scar
at the side of his neck where the
sunburn ended.
“Too right he has,” Spud cut
in.
“Like a few others I know,”
Siddie said with a bit of a laugh.
“So I hear.” Spud looked at
the suitcase on the bed and the
one on the floor. “Pulling out
tonight, are you?”
“On the midnight train,”
Siddie said, and Paul had a
vision of Central as he’d seen it
at midnight, cold and bare, with
the big black engines motionless
in the dark, and one lighted
platform at the end of the great
hall, a few wrapped people walk-
ing to it in a dream.
“I suppose you’re going to
Melb’n?” Spud asked; and
Siddie grinned and said “No,
Melb’n gets too hot, this time of
year.”
“You might go north, then?”
“I might,” Siddie answered.
“Well, I came up to see if you
needed a hand,” Spud said.
“Got enough suitcases?”
“Yair.” Siddie got up off the
bed, and Paul moved aside to
let him pass. He was Paul’s
height, but a lot thicker. He
smelt of sweat and brilliantine,
passing. He opened the lowboy,
and bent down, and rose with a
bottle in his hand. “Does your
mate drink?”
“No, but I do,” Spud said,
“What about the stuff there in
the lowboy?”
“That junk?”
“You don’t mean to say
you’re leaving good suits
behind?” Spud said. “And look
at them shoes! They must have
cost a packet.”
“I can’t take everything,
Spud,” Siddie said. “I’ve got a
lot of new stuff packed. That’s
all junk in the lowboy.”
“Well, chuck it on the bed,
then. I’m not proud,” Spud told
him.
“That’s an idea,” Siddie
agreed.
WHILE Spud took a swig
from the bottle and
breathed out and thumped his
chest, Siddie cleared two pairs
of shoes and two suits from the
lowboy, and pulled some
milanese shirts out of a drawer.
Spud put the bottle down and
said “If you don’t want a hand,
then, we’ll leave you to it, Sid.
Guess I’ll see you again soon?”
“I don’t know,” Siddie said.
“Like that, is it?”
“I don’t know. Spud,” Siddie
said.
Spud lifted the suits and put
them over Paul’s arm, and made
a bundle of shirts and shoes.
“Come on,” he said.
“So long,” Siddie told the two
of them.
Paul, closing the door, looked
back in at him and said “Best of
luck, anyway.”
“Yair,” Siddie said In his soft,
harsh voice, “So long.” And
Paul closed the door.
The kids were gone from
under the light in the lane. Spud
walked fast. His heels hit the
pavement hard. “That went all
right,” he said.
“Yair,” Paul said.
SPUD’S grandmother was
still out there, sitting alone
in the dark.
“You weren’t gone long,” she
said. “It’s a change for you to
get home at this hour.”
“The old woman never
sleeps,” Spud told Paul as they
went in.
“Never?”
“She drives us mad walking
round the house all night.”
“But she must sleep some-
time.”
“Well, I’ve never seen her,”
Spud said. “Don’t lean too hard
on that banister. The whole lot
might come down.”
Spud’s room was in the attic,
and the floorboards creaked.
Spud switched on the light and
threw his bundle on the bed.
Paul laid the suits there, too.
Spud said “Here, you try the
brown on first. I’ll have ago
at the blue.” He threw Paul the
trousers and held the coat.
Paul pulled the trousers on
over his own, buttoned them and
backed into the coat. Then he
turned and looked in the ward-
robe mirror, front and profile,
“The back’s good,” Spud
told him.
“Cuffs are a bit wide.”
“That’s how you want them.”
Paul looked at himself in the
mirror, broad across the
shoulders, narrow at the waist,
and Spud said “A bit of all right,
hey what?”
“Sure is.”
Hr HEN Spud laughed and said
f “I wonder what poor so-and-
so paid for that?” And just to
make sure Paul got the point, he
added “Some night in a dark
lane—smash! ”
The trouble with Paul, he was
too flaming sensitive.


DON’T BE AS
COLD os o FROG
IN YOUR OWN HOME THIS WINTER
/
/
/
/
INSULATE
< swohlJ'
ra
YOUR HOME WITH
SLAGWOOL
No need to shiver this winter —
insulate with 8.1. Slagwool . . .
keeps your home cosy# warm
and draught-free! Saves fuel,
too!
Send to your local Bradford Home Insulation office for free
Booklet and complete information telling you why and how
you should insulate your home with 8.1. Home Insulation.
N.S.W. : Bradford Insulation
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
66 Reservoir Street, Sydney
NEWCASTLE: Bradford In-
sulation (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
Clyde Street, Hamilton
VICTORIA: Bradford Insula-
tion (Victoria) Pty. Ltd.
422 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
8.1.41
QUEENSLAND: Bradford In-
sulation (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.
87 Eagle Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (S.A.) Ltd.
Shell House, North Terrace,
Adelaide
WEST AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (W.A.) Ltd.
10 Elizabeth Street, Fremantle
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
m
ff*
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOB!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look. Bill’s
a credit to his Company. Tour shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out ot : every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked 1.251
men to try it . . . 81% reported Beards easier to
cut” . . . 76% said “Less razor pull . . . 71% said
“Closer shaves.” . . 80% found Smoother-feeling
skin ” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
ŕ
BANKERS
PSS/121
The shaving cream
of successful men
• SALESMEN • LAWVERS
* \
A/
■ I
M
a-*.
ran round the little school,
A cough, and then three more;
The Master climbed down
off his stool.
And in a glass did pour
Some wondrous drops of
magic balm
To make each child secure
From cough and cold that
wintry day.
With
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”
GOODBYE
MISS JONES
JOE BELLICA?
Well, you’ll have to go
up town and across town ;
out of the main streets into
the side-streets ; and out of the
side-streets into the lanes until
you find the small brass-plate
which announces “J. Bellica,
Agent.” Inconspicuous, like a
buccaneer’s hideout?
Agent for what?
Ha ; you’ll have to travel to
see that. Into the suburbs to the
north to the Bellson Estate
Agency ; to the south to Bellicon
Traders building materials,
cement, hardware ; to the edge
of the city to Bell’s Hotel; and
out of the city to the Belltown
Timber Company.
Where did it all come from?
That’s a long way back. To
thirty years ago, maybe forty.
Back to selling peanuts on race-
tracks ; a rise to bottles; to
junk; to scrap-metal; to fish
and food; to clothes and
property. A long, long way.
Always buying, and always
selling.
What’s he like?
Meet him ; meet him by all
means in his lair with his
manager, his secretary, his
typiste, his switch-girl and —yes
-—even an office-boy. There he
is, behind the glass-panelled
door. Short and broad ; not fat,
just firmly and richly solid;
clean, good clothes that don’t
quite belong. You couldn’t call
him vulgar; he’s too forthright
for that. Bold would be the
word.
His hair is thin and black and
lies down flat; his eyes are dark-
brown and the whites light-
brown ; his face is smooth and
swarthy. He smiles easily with
full lips while he talks and
scratches his teeth with a broken
match.
I IKE him? Of course you
*—> do. Everyone likes him.
Trust him? Perhaps? So does
everyone.
How’d he do it all?
Ask him. Ask him by all
means. How’d you do it, Joe?
Buying and selling.
Just like that, eh?
Well, I always sell at a profit.
And if you can’t sell at a
profit?
I don’t buy.
And what d’ you sell?
Whatever people wants.
And if they don't want it?
There’s a coupler million
people in Sydney. When they
got all they want, I go outer
business.
Fixed prices, Joe?
There ain’t no such thing.
Fixed prices is what the market
will pay.
Blackmarket? Dishonest. No,
you couldn’t say that, really.
Joe’s standards are what life and
the world taught him, forced
upon him—you gotter live ; you
gotter eat; there’s Mama and
the kids ; so you buy and sell
at a profit.
Whether it’s peanuts or
property, Joe?
Yep, peanuts or property.
As easy as that, Joe.
Well, you gotter know J an*
you gotter be quick.
That’s it. Quipk to see and
quick to do. Quicker than the
next bloke. You never lose, eh,
Joe? Nobody ever beats you?
I don’t think so.
SURE, Joe? What about
Miss Jones, the typist in
the next room? That weary
young blonde who wants a man
and can’t find one good enough
for her. She lives on phone
conversations and cigarettes;
works when she wants to and
lets her parents support her
when she doesn’t. You don’t
know about her? You will soon.
Here’s your manager, Mr.
Walters, and your secretary,
Miss Hanly.
They would never try to beat
you, Joe. They know you, and
like you for what they know.
You’re next after the Almighty
with them. Gave ’em both their
jobs during the depression when
you really got your start —made
money in food and clothing
when everyone else was strug-
gling to find money to buy ’em.
Walters is a grey-headed
accountant, a human mechanical
brain ; he thinks if he’d had your
chances he would have made
thousands ; you think if you d
had his you’d have made
millions. Miss Hanly is dark
and cold and middle-aged. She
is wonderfully efficient because
she believes that that is what you
need.
They’ve got the morning mail
now, or some of it. They only
bring you the ones they can’t
answer themselves. They sit
down while you lean back in
your chair, break a match and
scratch your teeth with the most
suitable half.
Walters looks at each letter
quickly, tells you in one sentence
what it’s about, and you say
“Tell ’em no,” or “Tell ’em yes,”
or “Tell ’em to see me,” or
“Tell ’em to go to hell,” and
Miss Hanly makes notes which
will later be translated into the
polite, unemotional language of
commerce.
WHEN the letters are finished
Miss Hanly goes out, but
Walters lingers.
“I’m afraid we’ll have to sack
Miss Jones,” he tells you.
You don’t like sacking
people; it seems to smell of
mutiny. “What’s she done?
you want to know.
“Well, she fainted again
yesterday, and we had to let her
go home.”
“She sick?”
“I don’t think so, really. And
I don’t think she really faints.
It’s iust another way of getting
off.” . ,
“How many times she
fainted?”
“Five or six in as many
months. 1 haven’t bothered you
with it before.”
“Liddle bitch, eh?”
“Yes. I think we]d better give
her a week’s notice and get
someone else/’
“That all you can do?”
“I don’t see what else/’
“So I pays her good dough
for months an’ she don’t work
for me an’ she puts it over me.
go I give her another week’s
pay atf let her go.”
“I’m afraid so. Everyone is.
having similar trouble.”
You don’t like it, do you,
Joe? You don’t like anyone put-
ting it over you, let alone a silly
little blonde. So you lean back
in your chair again and scratch
both your teeth and your
memory. What was it? Where
was it? Something a long time
ago. Then you remember, like
you are always remembering,
whether it’s peanuts, property or
blonde typistes. You’ll make
her walk the plank, won’t you,
Joe? -
“Don’t fire her yet,” you tell
Walters. “Just call me quick
next time she faints.”
Walters looks expectant. “I
had a sister once jvho used to
faint,” you tell him. “Momma
used to fix her.”
Walters goes out and tells
Miss Hanly about it and such is
their faith in you that both are
almost anxious for Miss Jones
to faint. You forget about it
and turn your mind elsewhere ;
to the seven seas of the city.
r "P HEN, after a tactful interval,
1 and when her typing basket
is full, or when she hears the
call of the big department stores,
Miss Jones decides to faint
again.
She does it very nicely. She
stands up from her chair and
leans op. the table ; she sighs and
says “I feel awfully giddy,” and
then she steps into a nice clear
space and slides down into a
comfortable graceful attitude,
her eyes closed and her mouth a
little open so she can breathe
easily. Walters comes quickly
to your office and says “Miss
Jones has fainted again, Mr.
Bellica.”
You move with surprising
speed into the outer office: The
stage is nicely set for you. Miss
Gordon, the switch-girl, has
brought a glass of water ; Miss
Hanly is kneeling beside the
figure on the floor; the office-
boy is watching with keen
interest. Walters stands aside
for you.
“What happened?” you ask
as a matter of course, and the
office-boy tells you, eagerly, “She
just keeled over, Mr. Bellica. I
saw her.”
“Poor liddle kid,” you say,
looking down at her. “We better
do something.” ,
Miss Jones, who was slightly
alarmed when she first heard
your voice, feels very gratified
and decides to remain
unconscious as long as possible.
“She looks very sick,” you
say, bending over and turning
her face up a little. Miss Jones
becomes, if possible, more limp
than ever.
Walters and Miss Hanly are
watching fascinated. You take
the girl’s wrist as though to feel
her pulse and, with your other
hand, you gently open one eye
and look at the pupil.
Then, “Quick,” you shout.
“It’s adbominable trouble;
might be she has appendicitis.
Get a doctor quick. Miss Hanly.
An’ her clothes is too tight.
Loose her dress and take her
pants off! Quick!”
THERE is an astonished
scuffle in your audience. It
might sound like Miss Hanly
moving forward.
“Don’t you dare,” says Miss
Jones, sitting up like a released
spring. Then she sees the
comical surprise on your face,
that Miss Hanly is smiling
cruelly, and even Walters cannot
conceal his amusement.
She scrambles to her feet with
little gasps of fury, pauses as
though she is going to say some-
thing and then rushes out of the
office, snatching her hat and bag
as she goes.
“Send her a week’s pay,” you
tell Walters as you go back to
your office.
RE-READING KATHERINE MANSFIELD.
Though five, six years have passed, nothing is altered,
not that print ever varies—but the unchosen
shock to oneself remains—the final frozen
moment of vision: its impact has not faltered.
Drawingroom still echoes with their witty cries,
outside a moonwhite pear-tree, heavy with bliss.
Perpetual hallway hides the sudden half kiss ...
She wrote (as Eros aims, with bandaged eyes)
unable by wit to muffle last distress.
The unanswerable questions love always asks
she must pose also, being honest can make no masks
to veil truth’s quiet direct deceptiveness.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


ABORIGINALITIES
* sic * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; One product of the
Monte Bellos which might be missed now
that the islands are taboo is snakewood.
It has no actual commercial value, but
pearlers used to call in there and stock
up with it for firewood for the cooking-
pots. It has two virtues—it is smokeless,
and it’s practically inextinguishable once
it gets alight. Both qualities were valued
on a lugger. You didn’t want a fire that
would go out readily, and smoke would
have entered the airline and smothered
the diver. It was snakewood that the
natives used as firebrands when shifting
camp, which explains why the lubras were
able to keep it burning over long distances
and in all circumstances. It would
have been harder to put it out. It’s safe
to say that the Monte Bellos were visited
more often for snakewood than for any
other purpose.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Observing the abo.
in his primitive and near-primitive state,
the absence of the fist blow in the event
of sudden resentment of an offence always
struck me as strange. And where he has
seen the white bawsses settling disputes
by this means and has tried to emulate
them the exhibition has been a truly
ludicrous spectacle, with the one-in-a-100
punch that does connect having all the
lethal effect of a piece of wind-blown
"Don't you think all these newfangled gadgets are making our
menfolk flabby?”
thistledown. I once saw two New
Gumpa sign-on boys inveigled into
donning gloves in a Thursday Island ring,
The efforts of those gladiators, who,
clearly believing that the glove was
designed to be used as a club, indulged
m a senes of hammer-strokes commencing
high overhead, fairly rocked the stadium.
Tne fact that so many good abo. pugs
are thrown up is a tribute to the race’s
ability to master new weapons and not to
innate fistic prowess, since this line of
combat is distinctly alien to Binghi
psychology.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Driving along the bush
road I had Jock with me, a Scots terrier
about Ift. in length. Ahead of us we
saw some rabbits seeking shelter in one of
those culverts made by laying a 6in. con-
crete-pipe under the track. Remarking
that our respective wives had asked us
to bring home a few rabbits to reduce the
meat bill, and that we’d had no time to
spare for shooting, I told my mate to go
to one end of the culvert and get ready
to grab them as they came out. I then
took the eager Jock —who was well used
to the job—to the other end of the pipe
Yipping with excitement, he crawled in.
There was a scuttling noise inside, a loud
thud from the other end and three rabbits
raced away. I went up to where my
mate lay flat on his back, making noises
like a young rooster learning to crow.
I thought he was acting the fool at first,
but soon found it was genuine enough.
The first rabbit, coming out of that pipe
like a shell from a 25-pounder gun, had
hit him in the wind and had knocked
him out just as surely as a punch from
Joe Louis would have done.
*■* * *
“Kelms”: An expert from the
C.5.1.R.0. has been in Darwin teaching
a selected few natives from each of the
northern States to build mudbrick houses.
The W.A. representatives are two young
men from Native Affairs Department’s
station at Mulla Bulla, near Hall’s Creek.
Mulla Bulla was started in 1917 with
the idea of cutting down stealing of cattle
by roving bands of natives, by providing
them with sufficient meat from their own
station. Embracing some of the best
country in the Kimberleys, it carries
about 30,000-head of as good stock as
you’ll find. It’s home to about 250
natives, including 85 kids, and it has its
own school; but it costs a lot to have
building materials sent up via Wyndham,
which makes mudbricks doubly attrac-
tive. The two natives who have gone to
the school will come back as instructors,
and it’s hoped that the idea will spread.
There’s ample clay up there, some of the
timber is suitable for rafters, and the
roofs can be thatched with native grasses.
If the natives take to it enthusiastically,
as they may, they’ll be the best-housed
inhabitants in the country.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Strangers to a country cer-
tainly hear birds differently. A young
English migrant recently gave me two
new angles. He began by talking of the
cuckoo he’d heard. Some time later I
heard a pallid cuckoo whistling. “That
the fellow you heard?” I'asked. It was
not. The bird had really said “cuckoo,”
he told me; that one hadn’t. I couldn’t
recall having ever heard a cuckoo call
its own name. Later in the day the
boy exclaimed: “Listen! There’s that
cuckoo.” It was the common grey dove ;
but for the first time I realised that the
call actually is: “Cuck-cuck-koo.” Even
more mystifying was his reference to the
“Time-signal bird.” To my further ques-
tioning the lad explained: “It’s a black-
and-white bird, and it gives a cry like
the ‘pips’ on the wireless.” I tracked the
bird down to the ordinary peewee
Apart from his harsh “Pee-wee, peowit”
the pied fowl has another fuller, richer
cry, generally uttered when on the wing,
Heard from a slight distance, the resem-
blance to the “pins” is striking—even to
the timing between the three identical
notes.
* * * * '
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Peturi” watched a
column of ants 15ft. long and jam-packed
into a 4in.-wide track go into a termitary
and emerge 20 minutes later- —and counted
them in and out (B. 21/5/’52)! He didn’t
say whether he’s ever killed any of them,
but if he has I’ll bet he shot them —with
"What’ll they be putting in cages next?”
a long-bow. Has he ever made a small
opening in a termite nest and watched
the inhabitants’ reactions? First some
soldiers emerge and ring the breach.
They’re equipped with outsize mandibles
and, in some cases, with lethal juices ;
but the point is, they come out with the
obvious intention of fighting. Now, in
nature that attitude is adopted only by
creatures which are somehow or other
equipped to fight; and if termites are
an exception to that rule, then the battles
they’ve fought over the last few million
years have taught them nothing. It’s
another of nature’s rules that a species
that can’t learn by experience becomes
extinct, and the termites aren’t facing that
yet. “Peturi” would have us believe that
they’re helpless; yet they'v 3 continued
to live and increase although vhey’re con-
sidered a delicacy by about half the
denizens of the bush. Without some
ability to protect themselves they’d have
been eaten out asons ago. As for their
counter-attacking robber-ants what
object would they have? They couldn't
eat them—they’re vegetarians.
* * * *
“Loulalo”; The dotterel also knows
all about color-variation for its eggs (3.
28/5/’52). The first time I saw a nest
with eggs in it was on the edge of a
shallow salty marsh near Killarney Beach
(Vic.). The ground was yellowish sand
made even paler by a rime of salty
crystals, and the shallow nest with its
two eggs was almost undetectable. It
was only the bird’s last-minute move-
ment, when almost walked upon, that
led to its discovery. Years later I saw
my second nest, this time on a muddy,
pebbly tidal flat at Gladstone (Q,). There
were also two eggs this time, but they
were a deepish-stone-brown with deep
dull-brown markings, quite at variance
from the pale-honey-brown eggs with
their tan flecks which I had seen years
before. The birds, however, were alike
in every respect.
* * * *
“Laetitia”; If, as seems certain, Tas-
mania’s Reverend Bobbie Knopwood
coined the term “bushranger” (B. 4/6/’52),
then it is almost equally certain that
Australians visiting the Californian gold-
fields among the “49’ers” supplied the
U.S.A, with the word “bushwhackers”
for gentlemen who lay in wait for
travellers and relieved them of their
valuables. The historic Queensland
squattage of Boonara was founded in
1842 by Ned Hawkins, who, with a scion
of the pastoralist-explorer clan the
Archers, went to the Californian rush.
Hawkins was drowned in California, and
the property which he had founded in
Australia seven years earlier passed, in
1850, to David and George Jones, of
the Sydney merchandising firm —it is still
held by a branch of the family. It was -
probably returning Australians after the
petering-out of the Californian fields who
brought back the term “bushwhacker”
with them, though over the decades it has
lost its criminal connotation.
H* % sjj jJc
“Mat’s Mate”: lylat heard that a tank-
sinking contractor out of Condobobn
(N.S.W.) wanted a “good, all-round man,”
and he went up the Ootha road till he
found the job. The boss eyed Mat, and
Mat eyed the new tractor, new scoops,
new plough and the rest of it. “What are
you good at?” the boss asked. Mat
pondered. “It ain’t so much that,” he
replied. “It’s how long you been at this
game?” The boss said airily, “Oh, I’m
just getting a start. I intend to use
modern methods. Mechanisation, that’s
the stuff. Mechanisation and mathematics.
Maths to solve the problems and
mechanics to do the work. Get it?” Mat
looked doubtful. “Look,” the boss said,
“one time you tendered for a tank job
be running tapes round and filling a paper
up with figures. I use algebra. You
gimme the size of the tank y’ want and
in about two minutes I got it worked out.”
“Oh, well,” Mat said, “I suppose it’s all
right. What’s it worth a week?” “Four
ten and feed yourself,” the boss answered
(this was before Hitler blew Europe up).
Mat turned away. “Where y’ going?”
the boss demanded. “Away,” Mat said.
“You an’ y’r flamin’ algebra’s no good t’
me. When y’ can do a simple multiplica-
tion lemme know an’ I might come back.”
* <r * *
“Sebak”: My mong is big enough, ugly
enough and ferocious-looking enough to
be the original Hound of the Basker-
villes, but it’s a false front—even a
burglar would receive a wag of welcome
and, if the opportunity occurred, a slap
across the face with a sloppy—in both
senses —tongue. His benignity, however.
does not extend
to his own kind.
Any male dog
guilty of the
crime of pass-
ing his territory
is likely to be
bowled over
violently by
about six stone
of charging
tyke and ignominiously walloped across
the skyline. As for a hound foolish
enough to enter the hallowed domain!
But cracker-night played havoc with his
morale. Just as an electric storm makes
him crave human company, so the sound
—and perhaps the smell—of fireworks
set him whining and rattling the lattice
gate that keeps him in his yard. When I
returned from the small fry’s bonfire a
hole had been chewed in the trellis, and
a most miserable Paddy was squatting
dejectedly on the veranda. And within
two paces crouched another terrified dog
—a complete stranger. I hadn’t the heart
to chase him off; and Paddy obviously
had no such intention. Early next morn-
ing the visitor departed—still without
being attacked. Yesterday sounds of
canine carnage brought me running to
the rescue. Paddy had a dog pinned,
and was standing over him, snarling. It
was his erstwhile companion-in-misery.
Fellow-feeling may make the sufferers
“wondrous kind,” but the benevolence is
not conspicuously durable.
* * * $
“Naturala”: All through the long
months of summer the little white snails
had stayed glued to the posts around my
garden: exposed at times to well over
lOOdeg, in the sun. Then came early rains
in May, and the snails came down from
their posts and scattered over the loam.
Quite threequarters of an inch each one
had plunged its ovipositor into the earth,
and was busy depositing eggs, stored in-
side the parched-looking shell all through
the summef—eggs that would develop and
hatch, sending forth myriads of tiny
snails. Merely deposited on the surface,
such eggs would fall a prey to ants and
occasional small scavenging birds.
Nature designed the snail so that it could
bury its seed deep, and thus be sure of
the next generation appearing.
DAWN WATCH ON RANKEN
PLAIN.
I hear the night-horse shuffling by our swags.
Then saddle-leather: “Time to watch the
‘stags’ ”;
He rides away, and as he does I rise
Out of my swag into the drizzling rain.
The flickering cow-dung fire flares up then dies
As cold the wind blows o’er the Ranken plain.
The night-horse whinnies as I test its gear;
Then off through walls of darkness till I hear
The drover singing as he rides along,
Coming to meet me, for his horse has heard
My shuffling night-horse; I too burst in song
As on I ride towards the restless herd.
A shape rides from the darkness to my side:
“The mob are on their toes . . . you must
ride wide.”
He rides away into a tentless camp
Where packs are lying on the black-soil plain,
Amidst the drover’s swags, all dark and damp
Where old tarpaulins brave the storm in vain.
I sing aloud; the night-horse knows his job,
Swinging to cattle straying from the mob.
We wheel them to the herd; and resting where
A track-wise piker quietly chews its cud
I see amongst the mist a yellow flare
Leap from the cook’s fire, midst the packs
and mud. /
A cold south wind comes hissing through the
dawn
Across the treeless plain; and, cold and worn,
The night-horse jogs to bend a straying wing.
The cattle spread to move upon their way,
Rising and stretching as the horse-bells ring
And drovers’ shapes come riding through the
grey.
I turn the night-horse loose and trudge to eat;
The cook stands cursing as he stamps his feet:
“It’s cold . . .I’d like a drink . . . this droving
.... old.”
His voice is blurred against the deep refrain
Of muffled bells and hobbles, and the cold
Bleak howling winds upon the Ranken plain.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


“Hist”: The aboriginal nobleman
whose portrait was recently promoted
from our eightpence-ha’penny stamp to
the half-dollar value is Djungarai, some-
times known as “One Pound Jimmy,” a
member of the Wailbri tribe dwelling
somewhere in the Centre. The stamp has
been hailed by philatelists as one of the
most effective issued by any country, a
tribute to Djungarai himself, to the en-
graver who cut the die from a photo-
graph by Roy Dunstan taken for the
magazine “Walkabout,” and to the Stamp
Design Advisory Committee which dis-
cerned the promise of the subject.
* * * *
“Bo”: That old Merrylands (N.S.W.)
property of which the Lodge alone
remains (B. 4/6/’52) was Sutherland
House, and at the turn of the century it
was one of the show-places of the Ma
State, One Joseph Edmund Vance, a
Sussex-street merchant, bought it from
that Scottish migrant mentioned by “B. A.
Ker,” and made it into probably the most
self-contained model farm in the State.
It even had an artificial lake on which
he extensively grew water-lilies for the
Sydney market, and the orchard was a
wonder. His Ayrshire stud was cele-
brated. There were two long avenues of
pines, the smoke from chips of the last
few stumps of which brought those
nostalgic memories to “8.A.K.” One led
from the station opposite the front gate
to the house ; the other from the Lodge
to the house. As often happens when
such a place passes into hands less
enthusiastic, it fell into desuetude, and
closer-settlement finally delivered the
k.o.
* * * *
“Eurim hurra”: Theories regarding the
behavior of Lake George (B. 5/ 6/ ’52) are
as plentiful as Murray River bunyips and
some of them just as fantastic, but I
have never regarded the lake’s coming
and going as erratic. Near enough to
being on top of the Great Divide, the
lake-site is generally accepted as being
the crater of an extinct volcano. What
evaporation doesn’t account for simply
soaks slowly away to reappear on the
eastern and western slopes as springs
and seepages. A lot of these are
many miles from their source of
supply, accounted for by the water reach-
ing limestone country, with its subter-
ranean caverns and waterways, only to be
dispersed again over a still wider area.
An instance of this could occur in the
limestone caves near Mt. Fairy, only
some seven miles crow-flight from the
lake, and where running water is often
heard. Whether the lake is dry or has
water is entirely due to seasonal condi-
tions. It was navigable for boats up to
3ft. draught from 1870 to 1895, yet all
“THAT should teach you not to tune-in to atom-
tests on T.V.!"
water went in the 1900-02 drought
and with it the last of the cod, descendants
of those brought by the late Sir T. A.
Murray in watercarts from near Yarra-
lumla, and placed in Winderradeen
Creek. At present the lake’s water covers
about 50,000 acres of good grazing land.
It should be possible to drive a tunnel
under Geary’s Gap, run the lake water
into the Yass River and hold it by dam
in a non-porous site in about a quarter
of the area it now occupies. The drained
lake-bed would then be ideal for pasture-
improvement.
* * * *
“Edx”: “Gravelsnatcher’s” problem (B.
28/5/’52) was tackled successfully by
quite a number of “modern young blokes”
only a few years ago, when they prepared
thousands of acres of Australia for air-
strips. Their method employed a second
tractor, a length of steel-wire rope, and a
little intelligence. The tractors ambled
along parallel lines with the s.w.r. slung
between them about 3ft. from the ground,
and everything in the way came out and
lay down. Post-war young fellows say
there’s no way like it to clear a paddock
of stumps. Near Maldon (Vic.) I’ve seen
the job done by a couple of disposals
tanks using this method in a hard clayey
paddock full of stumps up to 3ft. diameter
at the saw-cut, and a giant dentist couldn’t
have bettered it. Most of the great root
system comes out with the stump, which
ends up lying at the edge of an enormous
cavity, waiting to be ’dozed away by the
converted tanks. But, limited to one
tractor and a roller, and handicapped by
his blinding ignorance and appalling
lethargy. I’ve no doubt the m.y.b. would
eventually stumble on some method of
estimating the height of the taller scrub,
and then put his roller at least as far
behind his tractor.
* * * *
‘ Billy See”: “Kelms’s” remarks on the
chain dragged behind petrol-wagons for
the ostensible purpose of draining away
any electricity generated by the slopping
aiound of tlje petrol inside the tank (B.
7/5/’52) recalls an effort by my friend
Merry, who, once an aspirant for literary
fame, has since diverted his talent for
fiction into the channel of land-agency.
Seeking the perfect short-story plot, Merry
had his villain designing sudden death for
his handsome hero, a petrol-tank driver,
by creeping at midnight to the parked
wagon and there replacing one of the
iron links of the chain with one of non-
conducting plastic. Next day a spark,
generated in the tank, set off a terrific
explosion. However, a doubting editor
submitted the idea to an expert, who
returned the verdict that, even if an elec-
trical charge were to be generated, the
charge over the whole of the tank, over
the entire vehicle, would be positive.
And, since a positive-charged object does
not flash sparks at itself, but only at a
negative-charged one, which means one
without any charge at all, no sparking
would take place.
* * * *
“V.”: Science has yet something to
learn regarding the pernicious effects of
the variegated thistle on stock, and every
vet. has his pet theory. Some of the
theories are puerile, some worn out,
and no sooner does one with a
smattering of sense have me partly
convinced than fresh evidence puts
it, too, in the discard. The old belief
that, if cut and part-dried, the thistles
make good fodder has been replaced by
the conviction that part-dry is their most
dangerous state. The idea that certain
seasons, vigorous growth
or particular times of the
year are responsible for
cattle deaths has also been
ruled out. Poison, internal
suffocation, or whatever
they might call it, makes
no difference to its deadly
vagaries, which defy any
set rule. I have known
cattle live on the thistles
all winter, and come off
prime fat. I have seen
cattle put into adjoining
paddocks, in both of which
were variegated thistles,
and whilst in one there
were no casualties, in the
other 20 deaths occurred
the first night. In one
almost-clean paddock, a
grazing bullock came upon
a lone and stunted varie-
gated, and died with part
of it still in his mouth. A
neighbor, whose large
bush-run is sprinkled with
the green - and - white
problem, declares that,
though the animals eat it
everywhere, only in one
particular area are there
deaths. Perhaps this points
to certain soils as
the Another
theory, that cattle (and sheep) become
gradually accustomed to its dangerous
properties, and therefore immune, has
also been disproved. The latest idea is
that, while the majority of variegateds
are good fodder, every so often there
occurs one that holds some deadly
quality. Maybe ; but the question still
remains—why?
“Laetitia”: That bungarra-brown snake
duel (B. 21/5/’52) reminds me of a
similar but differently-ending clash which
I unwittingly provoked when, during a
drowsy after-lunch spell, I was throwing
scraps to a wood lizard which had
curiously watched me boiling the billy.
It approached gingerly to take the first
“You two-fella belonga same plurry tribe?”
morsels, but became more venturesome
with each of my progressively-shortened
throws. To collect the last piece of tucker
it had to hurdle a pile of dried twigs.
After collecting the prize it attempted the
return jump. At the height of the return
parabola it seemed to halt in mid-air,
quivered violently for a few seconds and
then dropped inert on the heap of twigs,
to expire in a new series of convulsive
wriggles. With a stick I stirred the heap
of debris over which I had several times
stepped whilst boiling the billy. I found
a foot-long death-adder, whose vice-like
jaws had, on the evidence of disturbed
scales on the dead lizard’s body, broken
the back of the disturber of the reptile’s
siesta.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Sam was in a
deplorable state the morning' after, and
somebody told him the way to recovery
lay through a bottle of Worcester sauce.
Sam blundered round to the galley. The
cook wasn’t there. On the shelf over the
fireplace was a
Worcester - sauce
bottle about a
quarter-full. Sam
grabbed it, went
and leaned against
the door, upended
the bottle and took
a couple of gulps
at it. Just as the
cook and big
Fleming rounded
the corner the
bottle crashed to the floor, old Sam let
out a cross between a gasp and a shriek,
staggered in circles with his hands to his
stomach. The cook instantly realised the
crisis. “He’s swallowed me sheepdip ;
what I use for ants!” he roared. He
and Fleming pounced on Sam, Fleming
held him down and the cook rammed
fine-cut tobacco down his throat. Sam’s
internal mechanism duly reacted, and
presently Sam lay, white and exhausted,
but safe, on the galley veranda. “Sheep-
dip, was it?” he whispered. Then, with
a pale grin, “Well, it ruddy well worked,
didn’t it?”
* * * *
“Brick E.”: My sympathy is all with
the battler trying to build his own home,
but the bother some of ’em get into is
only equalled by the trouble you often
bring on yourself if you offer a little
professional advice, gratis. The chap
building near me, however, put on the
most unorthodox show I’ve ever seen.
He built piers for a frame building, put
the bearers and floor joists on and cut
his bottom plates around the job, all in
the normal way. Then he began to cut
the roof and fix it direct on the floor
with no walls at all. People came from
miles away to see “the house with a roof
but no walls.” If the week-end-builder
was aware of the stir he was causing, he
certainly was not perturbed. Whistling
plaintively, but apparently quite happily,
he cut, recut and cut again each rafter
until it fitted. It was a slow, tedious
business, but eventually the whole of the
roof framing was assembled, the building
looking like a house that had been
squashed down into the ground by some
mighty hand. But when he started to
knock the whole structure down again
my conscience impelled me to risk a rebuff
and see if I could solve his problems
“It’s all right, mate,” he replied cheerily.
“I just wasn’t sure how to cut the roof,
so I thought it was easier to nut it all
out on the floor than ’way up in the air.
I’ve numbered everything now and it’s
only a matter of putting it together again
like a Meccano set.” I’ll always admire
that young fellow’s resource, but his effort
was still the most comical-looking thing
I’ve ever seen on a building.
* * * *
“Bass”; Mesquite has become such a
menace on some of the nor’-Westralian
stations that it’s going to be tackled by
aerial spraying. Trial spravings with the
weedicide 245-T have given good enough
results to warrant the full-scale attack,
and the Government at last realises the
need to check the pest. Originally intro-
duced as the spineless type and
a likely food-supply, mesquite has
either thrown back, or developed
from impure seed, into the spiny
type, and it’s gone wild. It grows
to about 30ft. high, has thorns Sin. long
and as thick as a pencil, and develops
into thickets so dense that a man couldn’t
force his way through them. Neither
can stock, which is what makes the pest
such a menace. It grows around the
waterholes, so stock can’t get to the
water, and it’s pretty well established
on a few stations, mainly around Hedland,
and is spreading. It’s a major problem
in Texas, where a special research-station
devoted entirely to its eradication manages
to spend a few million dollars each year
on bulldozing, deep-ploughing and spray-
ing. They don’t seem to be getting rid
of it, yet.
* * * *
“Stweeler”; The two young men who
recently rowed the 1488 miles from
Albury to Goolwa had better luck
than did Frederich Gerstacker, the globe-
trotting German author who was the first
to attempt the voyage down the navigable
length of the Murray. With a runaway
sailor as companion, Gerstacker set out
from Albury in 1851 in a bark canoe.
They got no further than Hell’s Gates,
123 miles down river (where E. J. Brady,
describing the passage of the Lone Hand
more than half a century later, was to
say that “the river yelled and boiled, the
snags snapped at us with malignant teeth”).
There the canoe went down and the
travellers lost their boots and all their
spare clothes. After raising the canoe
and bartering it to a settler for fresh
supplies, Gerstacker went on afoot to
Adelaide; he helped interest Governor
Young in steam navigation of the
Murray. Over the next 13 years
various stretches of the river be-
tween Albury and Goolwa were
navigated by hand-propelled boats (Sturt,
of course, had travelled down from the
Murrumbidgee Junction in 1830), but it
was not until 1864 that a pair of travellers
—Gus Peirce and a companion—made
the long pull down the length of the
Murray from Albury to Milang on Lake
Alexandrina. Peirce, the future “Captain
Gus” of half a dozen river steamers, was
a runaway U.S. seaman who had been
engaged by a firm of steamboat owners
to chart the river and blaze riverside trees
as a warning against dangerous snags.
While Gus fulfilled his contract his com-
panion rowed the boat, did the cooking,
and, whenever a group of aborigines
appeared, played his violin in the hope of
soothing imagined savage breasts. Peirce
later skippered the Lady Daly, the
steamer for which his chart was prepared.
THE FROST.
The frost is as deep as the skies my boy,
As deep, as deep as your eyes my boy,
Look up, look up, not down my boy,
That’s only its dust on the ground my boy;
It’s as deep as the sky, as deep as day
That harvests its ice and steals it away,
So follow your eye to the sky my boy,
For frost means sun on high my boy,
For frost means sun.
N.S.W.
R. J. LOUDON.


ř
m
m
N!
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
r
For quality for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246 ! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1 % pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EGYPT. INDISPENSABLE BASE.
<t In the view of a London
“Times” correspondent on the
spot, two things have become
“ever more clear” from the
Egyptian wrangle:
(1) That the canal zone is
indispensable as a supply base.
(2) That such a base without
the consent arid friendship of
Egypt is at best unsatisfactory
and at the very worst unwork-
able.
Holding that, as “the hub of
Middle East” defence, “the Suez
base is more important for the
stores it contains than for the
forces that are its garrison,” the
writer contends that if an enemy
launched an attack through
Turkey or Persia the troops
normally in the canal zone could
do little more than hold the in-
vading forces as far north as
possible until reinforcements
arrived; but the presence in the
zone of large quantities of war-
time stores, well maintained and
ready for immediate issue, would
mean that the reinforcing divi-
sions were' ready for action in
sufficiently short time.
Strategically, he considers, it
may not be absolutely essential
that British fighting formations
should be stationed in the zone.
In an emergency they could be
shipped and flown in from else-
where. Recent events, however,
have shown that for tactical and
political reasons it is desirable to
have an adequate force within
the zone so long as there is a
possibility of a return to in-
stability and terrorism in
Egypt—“and indeed even in
more normal times many inhabit-
ants of the canal zone made their
living by drawing upon British
stores without the necessary
authority.”
Viewing the zone in this way,
as a dump rather than as a
barracks, it can be seen how in-
dispensable it is as the major
centre of allied power in the
Middle East. “In another con-
flict,” the correspondent points
out, “the [Egyptian] base would
again assume huge proportions
—a ponderous, complex
structure, part technical, part in-
dustrial, devoted to the supply
and reinforcement of armies in
the field. Without vast expendi-
ture and much lost time, such a
complicated organism could not
be transferred elsewhere in the
Middle East; and indeed most of
the suggested alternative sites —
Cyprus, Malta, Tobruk, Akaba
and Gaza—were clearly not
designed by nature or by history
for such a role, though each of
them would no doubt play im-
portant subsidiary parts in an-
other war.
“In any case, even if another
site could be found both geo-
graphically and politically suit-
able, most people would agree,
and the Americans perhaps most
forcibly, that this is hardly the
time for wholesale changes in
strategic dispositions. The
Egyptian base therefore remains
irreplaceable... . the core of any
new Middle East defence
arrangement.”
How Gyppos See It.
London “Economist” quotes
some who have recently been in
Egypt as contending that what’s
needed for a settlement is some
means of convincing Egyptians
that a foreign base is in their
national interest.
The British troops, they
say, are to the Egyptians a
symbol of former bondage and
are hated, while a great mass of
Egyptians do not think that
their present way of life is worth
defending.
In a word, Britain is
trying to establish with Egypt
two relationships—one, that of
a friend, the other that of
defender of Egyptian soil—and
the two are in Egyptian eyes no
longer compatible.
Peking "Peace."
“New York Times’s” view of
the Peking “peace” conference:
“It is clear that, far from being
a peace conference, this will
actually be a meeting at which
Communist and fellow-traveller
delegates will plan further
aggression in the Asiatic and
Pacific lands.
“Like his master, Stalin, Mao
Tse-tung has long since demon-
strated that behind his cries of
“peace, peace” are dark plans for
seizing large pieces of adjoining
territory which he and his regime
covet.
“Responsible and intelligent
leaders of Asiatic and Pacific
peoples will not be fooled by this
latest and most transparent
manoeuvre.”
Germany the Prize.
“The chips are down in
Germany and the decisive phase
of the struggle for Europe has
started.”
Making that comment, “New
York Times” military writer
Hanson W. Baldwin holds that
the West still has the job ahead
of it. He regards the army of
Loudon "Daily Express."
BORDER INCIDENT.
East Germans as a most
dangerous menace.
Most U.S. comment, however,
is now optimistic—much more
so than any European comment.
“U.S. News and World Report”
can be quoted as a representative
sample of the new-born
optimism;
“U.S. is winning, Soviet
Russia is losing the contest for
Western Germany, Soviet
attempts to throw a monkey-
wrench into the U.S. machinery
are a flop.
“Stalinas losing his chance to
grab Western Germany—the
prize he most wants in Europe—
and knows it. This is why he
orders Communists to threaten
West Germany with strikes and
disorders. Stalin’s bait, the offer
of a unified Germany, is being
ignored, Germans see the hook
inside the bait.
“U.S., despite many missteps,
is now far enough along to be
reasonably sure of having West
Germans on the Allies’ side.
Separate peace between Allies
and West Germany is soon to be
a fact, Schuman Plan, pooling
German and French coal and
steel, is virtually certain to go
into effect. European Army,
pooling West German troops
with those of the Allies, is a real
prospect, not just a dream.
“Added together, these items
mean a West Germany tied into
Western Europe, outside the
Soviet orbit, a U.S. victory, a
major Soviet setback.”
Dragnet Digest.
Sabotage in a Bookshop—A
Vienna correspondent of London
“Times” vouches for this: A girl
in a bookshop in Bratislava was
arrested for arranging some
books in a manner the Com.-
party watchdogs considered
derogatory. The trouble was not
the books themselves (actually
standard Com. works), but the
order in which the girl had
placed them on the shelf. The
first title was We Want to Live;
the second Far From Moscow ;
the third In the Shadow of the
Skyscrapers and the fourth
Under a Foreign Flag.
German Democracy ?
Assessed by London “Times’s”
special correspondent in Western
Germany: “Experience of the
Allied occupation suggests that
the Germans have learned little
about democracy, and, with the
exception of the Chancellor,
much less about international
co-operation.”
German Coins. • London
“Economist” report: “In
Western Germany nearly 80
different crypto - Communist
bodies, all subsidised from the
Soviet Zone, have been counted,
and they are growing.”
P.-0.-w. Have Had ’Em.—
“Out of 132,000 Chinese and
Korean prisoners-of-war in
United Nations hands [London
“News Chronicle”, report] no
fewer than 69,600 have firmly
refused to return to their
families and their homeland.
Tl;ey have had —in spite of the
denials that are sure to flood
forth from Communist sources
—every opportunity to make a
free choice. They have even
been subjected to persuasion
to return. But they will not go.”
Napalm. London “Daily
Mail,” commenting on the
Archbishop of York’s denuncia-
tion of the napalm bomb
(napalm “burns up almost
instantaneously all life and build-
mgs”): “The napalm bomb
undoubtedly saved the situation
for the West in the early days of
Korea. Without it we would
have been thrown out, and Com-
munism would have won an
incalculable world - wide
advantage.”
Napalm Eyewitness. From
a published account by Rene
Cutforth, who was 8.8. C.
correspondent in Korea: “I
thought of the hundreds of
villages reduced to ashes [by
napalm] which I personally had
seen, and realised the sort of
casualty-list which must be
mounting up along the Korean
front.”
Extravagance. London
“Daily Express,” a little
annoyed: “This useless institu-
tion [i.e., U.N.O.] goes on cost-
ing the world 48,000,000 dollars
a year. And Britain, where
economy is the order of the
day, pays close on £2,000,000 of
that money. It is an extrava-
gance which this country could
ill afford even if she were rich.
But at a time when every form
of economy is vital to spend
£2,000,000 on the folly of the
United Nations is a monstrous
piece of nonsense.”
Marketing British Cars
“U.S. Ngws and World Report”
comment: “British car manu-
facturers, seeing their biggest
export market (Australia) drying
up because of import curbs, seek
Government permission to sell
more cars at home. This
wouldn’t be in accord with the
British export drive. So you can
expect stronger efforts to sell
British cars in remaining export
markets. They are already start-
ing to lower their selling-prices
in Canada and Denmark.”
Dulles Doctrine. —New York
“Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent’s interpretation of a
“doctrine of peace by deterrent
power” advocated by John
Foster Dulles: “What Mr.
Dulles advocated was that the
Soviet and Chinese Communist
Governments be warned publicly
that if they strike again in Asia
the free nations of the world will
strike back with weapons of their
choosing, at times and places of
their choosing. This part of his
address was not much different
from the policy which the United
States Government follows in
the Far East with regard to
Japan and Formosa. Mr. Dulles,
however, would extend it to
Indo-China and other parts of
Southern Asia.”


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN WILLIAM HYNES late of
Bellerive.—TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN
MAY HYNES has filed a Petition for
Divorce in Suit No. 1580 of 1952 under
the Law of Tasmania on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
two years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 27th day of August 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from N. Y. MENLOVE, Solicitor, 160
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR JAMES TOBIN late of
Sydney—TAKE .NOTICE that IRIS
CECILIA TOBIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1989 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for 3 years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 2nd day of Sep-
tember 1952 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from E. G.
SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Elements of an Industry...
LEAD, one of the heaviest of the elements, is found in many
parts of the world as galena or sulphide of lead. Australia’s
main supplies of lead come from the mines at Broken Hill. Lead
was one of the first metals to be worked by Man. The baths of
ancient Rome were supplied with water through pipes made of
lead, and for centuries it has been used as a roofing material.
Soft, easy to shape and resistant to corrosion, lead is still employed
for these purposes, but today it has many other important uses.
Large quantities alloyed with antimony are now used to make
plates for electric accumulators and to protect insulated cables.
Soft solder is an alloy of lead and tin, and alloys of copper, tin
and lead are used for bearings. Litharge, an oxide of lead, is
used in making flint glass, pottery glazes and in the processing
of rubber. Red lead, another oxide, and white lead, or lead
carbonate are well known in the manufacture of paint. In the
chemical industry, plant and equipment for the manufacture and
storage of sulphuric acid are lined with lead because of its
resistance to corrosion. 1.C.1. in England make wrought lead
products such as sheet, pipes, tape and wire for a wide variety of
purposes. In Australia, lead is required by ICIANZ for numerous
chemical processes and also for the manufacture of shotgun and
rifle ammunition.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES /jcT\
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
6
h
j-v
V
;
0
v-wife'
0
m
:
©
0.l
o v
<co
the Stout
that does you
a power
of good!
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. UMITEP
55.164
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Boris Godounov."
At complete variance with the
florid Italianate style of opera in
which accent is always on the
aria and the concerted number,
and where melody is pursued for
its own sake, Moussorgsky in
this music drama uncompromis-
ingly set his score to capture
faithfully the spirit of Pushkin’s
historical drama. It is therefore
gloom-ridden, and at times
harshly astringent, despite some
fine harmonic color, and it de-
pends heavily on recitative and
chorus. There is concession to
sheer melody but once: in the
duet between Marina and
Dmitri in Act 3 ; and herein is
demonstrated the wisdom of the
St. Petersburg opera director in
insisting on thus relieving the
score from monotony.
Mina Shelley, who produced
the opera for the Sydney Con,
School, with Goossens conduct-
ing, was well served in the title
role, Boris himself is almost
half the opera, and James Wilson
brought to the support of a rich,
powerful baritone and a com-
manding presence a capital de-
lineation of Boris’s character,
and a death-scene that kept on
the hairline of reality.
Allan Ferris’s tenor rang well
in the limited romantic
sequences, and Frank Lisle as
Pimen again demonstrated his
solid qualities. Roma Purser’s
Marina was competent without
being outstanding, and William
Diamond brought the only light
touch to the piece as the gross
monk Varlaam.
The chorus did moderately well
while crowded on a wretchedly
inadequate stage. A feature of
this otherwise sound production
was the work of the scene-
shifters, who apparently had
several draught-horses assisting
them.
Burl Ives has a voice which is
just about adequate to encompass
the songs he sings, a priceless
grin which he uses sparingly,
and an undoubted personality
which he seems at times reluctant
to let off its chain. He is un-
doubtedly at his best when he is
delineating the humorous
though his version of “The
Foggy Dew” fell rather flat.
Easily his best number in his
opening Sydney concert was
“The Golden Vanity,” a splendid
ballad, but his rendering of the
Scottish ballad “Lord Randall
was so tepid that the audience
tittered at what should have been
a highly dramatic denouement.
Cyril Scott’s version is im-
measurably better than Ives s it
should be sung by a singer
capable of declamatory powers,
an attribute which Ives certainly
doesn’t demonstrate.
* * * *
A show of “Sydney Art in
Melbourne” is hanging at the
Victorian Artists’ Society, and it
might just as well be Melbourne
art in Sydney. If the artists
aren’t copying one another, they
are copying some foreign master
or alleged master. Sidney
Nolan, in his “Temptation
of St. Anthony,” with its
praying - mantis angels, is
reminiscent of Chagall. The
quality of James Gleeson’s
surrealism in the heads and faces
sticking out of rocks is drearily
academic. Local critics, always
anxious to run down their own
crowd, said that the Sydney
artists had more of the spirit of
adventure than Melbourne
painters; but what is there
adventurous about following a
fashion? The only artist in the
exhibition who completely shows
the spirit of adventure is Dobell.
In his little study for a portrait
of Sir Charles Lloyd Jones he is
obviously dealing with his own
experience. And, although in
his large and allegedly more
important pictures like
“Memorial to Jim McDowell”
and “Maria” Russell Drysdale
fails to express anything but bad
painting, he does get some
robustness into a small sketch,
“Father and Son.” Margaret
Olley has some free drawing in
“Paris Sunday” and George F.
Lawrence’s “Cloud Over Saddle-
back” is rather dark, but has
an effect of movement, as also
has Jack Carington Smith’s
“Wave.” As for comparisons
between Sydney and Melbourne
painters, there are a dozen or so
Melbourne artists who could
paint these Sydney artists’ heads
off with the exception, of
course, of Dobell—but they are
just as unfashionable in Mel-
bourne as they would be in
Sydney.
* * * *
Anybody who paints a child
today and doesn’t make it a
squash-headed monster is liable
to be accused of sentimentality ;
and in fact Frank Payne (a
woman artist) at Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries does some-
times fray out into sentimen-
tality, illustration and, when she
paints large, literalness. But the
total effect of her show is of a
quiet, sensitive sincerity, with at
times a high degree of technical
capacity. She goes in for a type
of genre painting too rarely
attempted today, little comedies
and dramas from life, mostly
based on children in town, in the
country and at the beach; even
an arrangement of choirboys. A
child feeding lambs is one of the
most successful, and one portrait
of a reddish-haired child in a
paddock is really an excellent
little thing, admirably painted
and full of charm and vitality
and character.
H* * *
John Salvana’s modest little
landscapes with relieving patches
of sunlight; Jean Derrin’s quiet
watercolor, “Close of Day”; H.
Edgecombe’s too - soft water-
colors ; and, if one can overlook
the method, the effect of warm
sunlight through trees in M.
Perrier dagger’s “Afternoon Sun-
shine,” stand out slightly from
the general lack of inspiration in
the 132 items of the Australian
Art Society’s exhibition at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney.
5{S * • * *
Sydney Stage:
Ballet : Opera has finished at
the Tiv., succeeded by the
Kousenetzova Ballet until next
Saturday, after which the
National Ballet Co. arrives from
Melbourne for a fortnight.
Royal: “Peep Show” vaude-
ville winds up next week to be
replaced by “To Dorothy a
Son,” with Jimmy Hanley.
Empire: The Kiwis in “Cas-
sino” at night, and the Hogarth
Puppets by day.
Independent : Dr. Carda-
matis’s personal version of
“Henry V,” with a pretty good
Mercury: John Kay has
added Shaw’s “Arms and the
Man” to his already considerable
repertoire of SlTakspeare,
Moliere, Strindberg and others.
Metropolitan : Ch e k hov’s
“Three Sisters” coming up.
Shavian Playhouse: ‘St.
Joan” opens next Saturday.
Jj: * * *
Frank Thring turned up at his
Arrow Theatre, Middle Park,
/Melbourne, the other evening
with “The Man Who Came to
Dinner,” the Moss Hart comedy
about Alexander Woolcott, the
celebrated American critic,
author, commentator, broad-
caster, poseur and whatnot. It
is an artificial story, and the
character of Sheridan Whiteside,
who bursts into a strange house-
hold like an atomic-bomb
explosion, and overawes every-
body by being incredibly rude
and boorish to his host, his
friends and servants, is as false
as water; but it was good
popular entertainment. If Mr.
Woolcott had been Beethoven
himself he couldn’t have put that
over. Mr. Thring played the
part with enormous vigor and
vast assurance and brought the
house down.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
insufficiently stamped. Name and address must appear on the Mb. J\o
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will
be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
F.E.: Not bad, but not quite....
... .A.H.G.: The only thing reserved
about your story is the co l^ n S“ ■
... .8.L.P.; Article on Fanny Burney
merely routine; you should assume
people know the facts they can ge
out of the Encyclopedia Bntannica
and look around for some tresn
critical approach J.N.: Some of
your off-rhymes are pleasing; but
“ramparts-twilight” is surely several
miles off. Send another. ...0.P.:
“Wind” blew itself out 8.V.E..
“Oddly enough, this little poem came
to me while shaving.” Well, shave it.
Bellerive; You float again:—
Rhyme of a Yacht Race.
Clearing the billow’s
Swift bold and free.
A picturesque sight is—
A yacht race at sea.
Dancing and swaying—
In a reckless way.
Onward for victory or—
Tossing up a spray.
Upon the blue waters
Neath the golden sunlight.
A yacht race at sea is—
A picturesque sight.
.N.P.G.; “I come from haunts
of goats and tin.” Sounds as if
you’ve been on the wallaby with
Tennyson J.F.L.: “Out” i 5....
0.W.Q.: Even if you are a New
Australian you shouldn’t attempt to
rhyme “kookaburras” with “lawn-
mowers”. .. .Y.T.; Try it on the girl.
If she likes it she must be ip love
with you U.N.M.: Seafaring ditty
flat as a flounder... .1.L.: “If you
don’t publish this poem I’ll eat my
hat.” But why not eat the poem?
E.G.: We were impressed by
your “Handbook for Housewives”;
but they’d loathe it... .J.C.S.: Too
much about too little 0.M.:
Your “Island of Spirits” had a dream-
quality from which you should be
awakened.... .A.R.: Good, as usual,
but forced. V.S.: Wishy-washy.. • .
M. 1.: Not ours S.S.; Beside Aus-
tralian hiking, English climbing is
purely social... .L.H.C.: Whatever
the weather, it’s always raining cats-
and-dogs in our short-story mail-
basket. .. .H.J.8.: Sorry; you seem
to have said everything in that one,
first, glorious rapture D.S.T.: At
least you had the grace to realise
that the reader would spot your wow-
ending half-way through, and not to
insist on it M.L.; Your mechanism
is better than your observation
8.W.: You had a delicate fancy, and
you hammered it home... .D.M.:
Afraid our criticism hasn’t been much
use to you... .M.T.: Your mournful
schoolmaster should become awake-
up to himself J.A.8.: It’s a good
tragedy, but as “cumbersome” as you
say the title is; such stories need a
fine style to carry them through, and
the present reader can’t take them
without a rich sauce of irony
L.1.P.: Q.: Do we want a “Literary
Quiz?” A.: No E.R.: Such
things are dealt with here in para-
graphs, not two thousand words.
J.P.: Nice, about the mail-run,
but more a paragraph J.G. (aged
14): “I hope to become a journalist,
does this story show promise?”
Well, it shows imagination, so, heaven
pity you, you may!... .G.E.: “Would
You Believe It?” Well, we don’t
want to seem rude, but;
P.W.: It contains one original turn
of phrase —“The devil’s a goose” —
but the rest is trite stuff Raga-
muffin: You speak for thousands:
From a vast array of rackets
Rife in this community
Rogues wax fat and make big packets
Out of folk like you and me.
Not so much from beer or butter
Two-up joints or baccarat —
But just from our race-day flutter
At S.P.


The WILD CAT
C N
Australian Mutual Provident Society
m . , Ordinary Department.
Dec Income ni Q - Ex ‘ Written Added
’ lnc^ ne - Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
U7 6 i 1 7 6 V 4 |i 8 4 1 oq J’.?- 99 ’ 980 2,152,283 48,261 6,237,594
MSio’l^’t^QM 78,081 1 > 855 > 824 HI-608 8,285,896
’49 an'lsfi’lv? I’???’ 274 83,699 9,286,566
49 ' 2 S’ 973 8 > 37 1.538 2,131,761 115,710 10,367,964
surplus sale assets iir 9^,9
’50.22,982,991 9,x81,103 2,’301,274 ’ 94,193 ll,40o’,421
Surplus sale assets . . .. . . 66,048
al.20,493,393 9,119,243 3,949,319 160,080 13,164,751
surplus sale assets . . . . .. 83,844
„ . Industrial Department.
Dec Tncnrna ™ • Ex - Written Added
Dec., Income. Clauns. penses. Off. Funds.
’Il f's32*979 o’a^’ 288 1.M2.20S 6,826 1,725,648
ms 5 r-q’q-q o’™ 1 ’ 039 I>°64,886 16,845 1,780,208
’49'5’soq?i9 |’® 38 ’ 262 1 ’ 034 ri26 15,788 1,965,403
49 £° r 9 ’, 12 8,287,754 519,937 10,312 1,991,709
sa * e assets .. . . 25 473
50.6,039,972 2,947,861 543,628 6,352 2,542’,131
Surplus sale assets . . .. .. 14 175
’ >1 ' C Wni 352 2,830,553 698,892 ’ 16,526 2,773’,381
Surplus sale assets . . .. 17,994
rl* e A.M.P., biggest mutual
lire office in the British Commonwealth
and a tower of strength in the Australian
social and economic structure, has had
another record year. Current trends are
placing fresh emphasis on the virtue of
savings and upon the value of life assur-
ance to this end. In the social sphere
policies of sound, regular-bonus-paying
offices are not only designed to meet a
multiplicity of future financial needs
of the insured and his dependants, but
they also create an immediate estate with
a full measure of capital security long
before it is paid for, an advantage for
which there is no substitute. In the
economic field the net personal savings
from life assurance—the difference
between a society’s income and outgo —
are anti-inflationary in character, and are
largely directed into public and private
productive and ancillary enterprises, and
so help to keep the wheels of industry
turning and to maintain employment.
Latest accounts provide fresh evidence
of the continued and rapid expansion of
the society;-—
1940. 1950. 1951.
£> £/
New business .. 23,011,655 77,092,422 101,392,651
1° 1 lncome • • 16,393,976 29,022,963 31,812,745
Total assets . . 128.645,170 221.430,326 239,181,418
Business in force*385,995,742 638,082,631 712,649,277
* Sum assured only.
Behind the buoyancy of the figures also
lie inflation, a rapidly expanding popula-
tion, growth of industrial-superannuation
schemes and home-purchase associated
with life cover. The amount of new busi-
ness written last year increased by 31.5
p.c., as against 10.5 p.c. for the previous
term. Of last year’s total new contracts
91.3 p.c. (£92,573,309, up £23,411,514)
were ordinary and 8.7 p.c. (£8,819,342,
up £888,715) industrial.
After deducting income and land
taxes (£673,830, up £173,661), the
year’s income from all sources was
£2,789,782 stronger at £31,812,745—
£24,043,369 (up £2,297,708) premiums
and £7,769,376 (up £492,074) interest,
divs., etc. There was also a surplus
of £101,838 on sales of securities.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., £16,216,576 remained, of which
£176,606 was used to write down the
book-value of premises and other assets,
thus further strengthening the co.’s inner
reserves, and £16,039,970 was added to
the life funds, raising them to
£227,147,028. In addition there are con-
tingency reserves totalling £5,000,000.
The life funds alone are well in excess
of actuarial liabilities under policies, cal-
culated on a stringently p.c. net premium
basis, thus leaving a substantial sum for
distribution as bonuses among policy-
holders—there are no shareholders. Here
are the figures for the ordinary depart-
ment ; —
1950. 1951.
Assurance funds .. £174,188,182 £187,436,777
Actuarial liability . . 169,308,685 182,660,345
Surplus .. .. £4,879,497 £4,776.432
Bonus policyholders . . 4,556,030 4,707,051
Reserve interim bonuses 60,000 40,000
Carried forward . . . . 273,467 29,381
Although there was a shrinkage of
£103,065 in the surplus, an extra £151,021
was distributed as reversionary bonuses
at slightly reduced but very satisfactory
rates on whole-life policies. The society’s
rate of bonds is still unsurpassed by that
of any other life office in Australia or
New Zealand, the chairman says. These
bonuses are the result of efficient manage-
ment of the business and wise investment
of the funds.
The cost of handling the business in-
creased, due mainly to the steep rise in
wage-rates and partly to the large amount
of new business written. In the O.D.
exes, made off with 18.2 p.c. of net pre-
miums, as against 15.7 p.c. in 1950. In
the ID. the rates were 25.9 p.c. and 22.9
p.c. respectively. Still, the ratios were
well within those allowed for by the
actuary.
There was little change in the net
effective rate of interest earned on the
assurance funds —£3 11s. 4d. p.c. (down
4d. p.c.) after deduction of the increased
taxes already referred to. The margin
between this rate and that assumed in
the valuation is wide enough to ensure
maintenance of current bonus-rates.
The attention now being given to
mortgage, debenture, preference and
equity securities augurs well for a
strengthening of the rate of interest
earned, which is one of the main factors
governing bonus-rates:
1950. 1951.
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Govt, securities! 145,748,332 65.8 142,970,007 59.8
Mortgages - .. 45,834,627 20.5 62,758,718 26.2
Loans policies . . 10,736,660 4.8 11,146,197 4.7
Shares and
debentures . . 18,312,828 6.0 15,149,394 6.3
Debtors, etc. J .. 3,163,259 1.4 3,481,569 1.3
Cash .. . . 79,654 0.1 55,911 0.2
Premises, etc. . . 3,054,966 1.4 3,619,022 1.5
Total assets .. 221,430,326 239,181,418
Liabilities* . . 4,254,536 5,666,096
Net assets . . 217,175,790 233,515,322
t Includes local- and semi-government securities.
1 Mainly accrued interest and outstanding premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
Last year the holding of Government
securities was reduced by £2,778,325,
while £17,424,091 was added to mortgages
and £1,836,566 to shares and debentures.
The last-mentioned item consists of
debentures (£5,740,028, up £836,945),
pref. shares (£4,386,325, up and
ord. shares (£5,023,041, up £636,815).
Since the bulk of the co.’s assets consist
of redeemable securities, which, when
they mature, will equal or exceed their
book-value, too much attention need not
be paid to current fluctuations in market
prices. Good progress is being made
with the co.’s land-development project,
Coonalpyn Downs (S. Aust.), which is not
yet revenue-producing.
Edwards Dunlop and Cos., Ltd.
To Ke- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 38,674 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,078 877,538
Warehouse reserve, £36,000 . . . . 413,538
1946.. 39,500 10 p.c. = 87,596 1,904 415^442
Net addition reserves, £64,165 . . 479,607
1947.. 40,789 10 p.c. = 37,596 3,193 482,800
Share premiums, £109,030 .. .. 591,830
Unexplained addition, £13,000 . . 604,830
1948.. 48,100 10 p.c. = 39,163 8,937 613,767
Share premiums, £IOO,OOO .. .. 713,767
Unexplained addition, £IOOO.. .. 714,767
1949.. 52,462 10 p.c. = 46,365 6,097 720,864
Profit sale of assets, £17,043 .. ~ 737,907
1950 ; t - 64,454 11J p.c. = 62,005 2,449 740,356
Unexplained addition, £199,-438 . . 939,794
1951.. 75,492 122 p.c. = 68,895 6,597 946,391
Share premiums, etc., £50,085 . . 996,476
1952.. 84,229 122 p.c. = 72,020 12,209 1,008,685
Despite the buoyancy of earnings, main-
tenance of a high rate of dividend and
the co.’s undoubted strength, financially
and otherwise, the price of its f.-p. £1
shares fell from 86s. 6d. a year ago to
645. 6d. early in 1952, eased to 525. in
April, strengthened to 675. just before the
accounts were presented, and were
available at 625. last week. The return at
625. is 4 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. Net tangible cover is visibly
535. 6d.
Certainly the smallness of the new issue
in November, 1951, when 50,000 £1 shares
were put out, one for 11, at a premium
of 100 p.c., disappointed the market
at a time when new issues were still an
attraction. When announcing the
offer the board said it intended
to make a further issue if and
when Capital Issues Control empowered
it to do so. However, the background
for trade and industry has meanwhile
become very fluid, and the need for
additional capital might be less pressing
in the near future than it was at the end
of 1951. The fall in the price of the co.’s
shares, and in equity prices generally, is
largely explained by the change in the
long-term rate of interest, which sets the
standard against which the return from
risk capital is measured. Hopes are
that the gilt-edged market is now at
or near a halting-point, and that the
equity market will soon have a firmer
base, real and psychological, against
which to adjust itself, especially for sound
stock. Interest therefore is beginning to
centre on the probable level of earnings
and distributions.
The co. handles all kinds of paper and
printers’ requisites, has Commonwealth-
wide connections, and a subsidiary in
London looks after overseas buying.
Turnover showed a marked increase last
term, and the cautious board wrote net
earnings £8737 stronger at £84,229. That
was equal to 14.6 p.c. on average capital
as against 13.7, 11.7, 11.3, 12.2 and
10.8 p.c. back to 1947. The div. was
maintained at p.c., and no hint was
given that it might be reduced for the
current term.
Indeed, the 'margin between the year’s
declared net earnings and the div. was
much wider than the p. and 1. figures
alone suggest. The year’s “net” expendi-
ture of £35,371 (up £18,693) on plant and
equipment was written off out of earn-
ings, and so was the fall in stock-values
following the drop in paper prices, especi-
ally for Scandinavian newsprint. In
addition the undisclosed reserves against
stocks and debtors’ balances were further
strengthened from the same and other
sources. So, although operating costs are
still climbing, and import restrictions are
expected to “considerably” reduce turn-
over for the current term, the market
doesn’t expect the 12i p.c. div. to be
interfered with.
The net increase in the stocks item was
£377,093 and in debtors’ balances
£290,612;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £551,158 £551,158 £551,158 £601,158
Creditors, etc.* 340,031 511,067 840,529 871,508
Tax reserve . . 160,000 113,404 272,347 432,050
Final div. . . 12,527 20.668 27,558 18,786
Freeholds . . 126,381 107,354 159,313 177,635
Stocks .. 757,782 627,331 895,456 1,272,549
Debtors ~ 697,580 611,303 907,972 1,198,584
Cash, bonds
and shares 202,840 590,666 675,242 283,419
* Including provisions, etc.
To meet the outlay shareholders put up
£IOO,OOO, the amount coming to creditors,
etc., was increased by only £30,979 and
cash and investments were drawn upon
for £391,823. The improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£1,432,208)
was £93,962. The co. still has sufficient
ready resources to take prompt advantage
of any buying opportunity that may offer.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Dividends——
Net Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. 31 p.c. serves, serves.
1945 .. 5,774 5,600 2,800 14,509
p.c.
1946 . . 7,993 5,600 2,000 893 14,902
Unexplained addition res., £12,567 .. 27,469
From “Special Depreciation Reserve,”
£52,015 79,484
7 p.c.
1947 .. 16,247 5,600 5,600 5,047 84,531
Compensation, Darwin service, £18,440 102,971
1948 . . 16,599 5,600 5,300 5,399 108,370
Profits prior years, £15,000 .. . . 123,370
1949 .. 12,314 5,600 5,600 1,114 124,484
1950 .. 14,754 5,600 5,600 3,554 128,038
Unexplained addition, £1375 .. .. 129,413
p.c. 84 p.c.
1951 .. 19,353 6,800 6,800 5,753 135,166
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1952 . . 20,319 8,000 8,000 4,319 189,485
The bulk of the profit comes from the
co.’s holdings in Government securities
and shares in other cos. Flying activities
are confined to South Australia and the
lower-Darling area, and that through no
fault of the co.’s own Its future in this
field is an uncertain one. Here is the
picture as the chairman paints it:
While our flying operations have
developed into a compact though small
business which has given useful service to
the public, their present profitable opera-
tion is only possible because our aircraft
were acquired at a cost which is only a
fraction of their replacement cost. It
would be quite impossible to operate at a
profit if it became necessary to provide
interest and depreciation on new aircraft
at today’s prices. Since it is expected
that our present machines will meet our
needs for several years, this problem can
be deferred for the time being. Meanwhile
we shall be able to continue on a profitable
basis, while income on investments is suffi-
cient to ensure a continuation of dividends
at satisfactory rates,
Last term the aircraft carried 80,077 (up
14,558) passengers and 1,663,463 pounds
(up 831,8721 b.) of freight. The improve-
ment in gross earnings (£369,150) was
£69,086. Including provision for depreci-
ation (£9826, down £8019) and taxation
£24,197 (up £7652), exes, gobbled all
but £966 of the gain. Income from in-
vestments was £15,575 (up £3180). Air
activities thus appear to have been less
profitable than in the previous term.
The £20,319 of profit was equal to, 12.7
p.c. on the £160,000 of capital (half 7 p.c.
participating prefs. and the other half
ords.) as against 12.1, 9.2 and 7.7 p.c.
for the three preceding years. The div.,
which was stepped up from 7 p.c. in
1950 to 8y p.c. in 1951, was lifted to
10 p.c., and looks like remaining there
for the current term.
All that leaves out of the reckoning
£3750' compensation received for cancel-
lation of a Government contract in 1945,
and a profit of £22,000 on sale of the
hanger and other buildings at Parafield
airport, which became redundant follow-
ing completion of the West Beach air-
port. These two sums, together with
£4637 from other sources (total £30,387),
were earmarked as an investment fluctua-
tion reserve, which has been deducted
from the book-value of investments in the
published accounts.
Finances are snug, and the bulk of
assets consists of shareholdings, Govern-
ment securities and cash:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £160,000 £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Creditors .. 47,513 48,977 76,953 125,495
Tax provision 37,856 37,550 33,420 22,240
Final divs. .. 8,400 8,400 8,400 10,400
Fixed assets . . 48,491 33,941 19,121 13,101
Debtors . . 4,211 3,706 9,524 14,372
Shares, etc. . . 88,401 123,995 180,495 *263,231
Cash and Govt,
securities .. 237,150 221,323 204,399 166,916
* After deducting investment reserve, £30,887.
When the books closed Government
securities stood at £141,451 (down
£40,501). Shareholdings, which comprise
57 separate parcels, increased by £82,736
net, after deducting the investment reserve
already referred to.
At 325. (355. a year ago) the f.-p. £l
ords. return 6.2 p.c. on 10 p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis, the prefs. at 28s. 6d.
yield 7 p.c. Net tangible cover, excludin
the investment reserve, is 745. lOd. pref
and 675. 7d. ords.
New Broken Hill Consolidated
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends.f serves. Reserve
£* £* £* £*
1946.. 81,057 Nil 81,057 682,47
1947.. 20 p.c. = 93,112 96,020 778,49
Share premiums, £711,632 .. .. 1,490,13
1948. .322,392 20 p.c. = 93,112 229,280 1,719,41
Share premiums, £603,524 . , .. 2,322,93
Net unexplained addition, £16,289 .. 2,339,22
1949. .404,014 30 p.c. =184,898 219,116 2,558,33
From tax reserve, £155,000 .. .. 2,713,33
Net unexplained addition, £6402 .. 2,719,74
1950 . .472,731 30 p.c. =179,295 293,436 3,013,17
Net unexplained addition, £10,671 .. 3,023,84
1951. .619,024 50 p.c. =£94,156 324.868 3,348,71
t Rate of div. is that declared, but amount is show
after deducting English tax. * Sterling.
The co. is London-controlled, but the
mine, which adjoins that of Zinc Corp
is at the southern end of the big silver-
lead-zinc lode at the Barrier (N.S.W.)
It is just emerging from the initial
development stage—production began in
1945—and in size promises to rival the
great past and present producers on this
field, which is one of the major con-
tributors to the world’s supply of non-
ferrous metals.
Last term it was the rise in the price of
metals that took care of the growth in
costs and bumped up both net earnings
and the div. London (stg.) averages per
ton for lead and zinc compare as follows:
Lead. Zinc.
Stg. Stg.
12 months 1950 .. £IOB 111 £ll9 7 1
12 months 1951 .. 163 13 4 171 15 3
Jan., 1952 .. .. 176 5 5 190 0 0
April, 1952 . . .. 164 10 0 190 0 0
June 12, 1952 . . . . 129 0 0 138 0 0
The Australian fixed price was steady at
£A6S per ton for each metal. The recent
sharp drop in overseas price is due to the
change in outlook.
Profit increased by £146,293, reaching
£619,024, equal to 55.2 p.c. on the
£1,120,592 of capital as against 42.1, 36
and 38 p.c. for the three preceding years
lhat was after debiting earnings with
expenditure; on development (£196,344,
up £116,892) and allowances for deprecia-
tion (£178,000, up £75,000) and taxation
(£719,860, up £239,460). The nominal
rate of dividend was lifted from 30 p.c.
to 50 p.c.—nominal because U.K. income-
tax of 9s. 6d. in the £ makes 50 p.c. worsi
only 26} p.c. stg. in the hands of share-
holders In Australian currency 26i p.c.
stg. is worth 32.8 p.c. at the current rate
of exchange. Over half (£324,868) of
the year’s net earnings remained in the
business to help finance completion of
equipment and development of the mine
Because the market for the scrip mainlv
follows the market for the metals, and
because of the readjustment of equity-
share-prices generally, the Australian price
of the co.’s f.-p. ss. shares eased from
345. 6d. at the close of accounts to 295. 3d.
last week. At the lower figure the
immediate return is 5.6 p.c. on the basis
of last term’s distribution and with ex-
change as it is.
Ore mined is still being hauled through
the Zinc Corp.’s main shaft and treated
in that co.’s mill. Here are tonnages and
grades for the last two years:
Ore Grade
Milled, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
tons. p.c. oz. p.c.
1950 i. 209,017 10.5 2.3 12.6
1951 .. 211,608 8.6 2.0 12.3
The 1950 figure included 43,332 tons ore
bought from the Zinc Corp., but the whole
of last year’s ore came from the co.’s
own leases.. Milling results were as fol-
lows ;
, Grade —«,
Con’trates, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Lead— Tons. p.c. p.c. p.c.
1950.. 27,295 76.6 16.1
1951.. .. 22,883 76.0 16.9
Zinc—
-1950.. .. 46,539
1951.. .. 46,231
About a quarter of the lead (concentrates
are smelted at Port Pirie) and approxi-
mately 40 p.c. of the zinc are sold locally
at the Australian fixed price and the
balance mainly to Britain.
The ore-bodies fall into two major
divisions, namely zinc and lead lodes.
The former occur above and the latter
below No. 16 level. Measured ore re-
serves at December 31 last were:
f Assay
Ore, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
tons. p.c. oz. p.c.
Above Np. 16 level . . 796,000 5.6 1.1 14.1
Below No. 16 level. . 1,204,000 12.4 3.3 9.2
The diamond-drill has disclosed a lot
more high-grade ore outside the measured
limits, especially on and below No. 19
level (2760 ft.). If the southern extension
of the lodes pan out as expected, probable
pay-ore would be in the neighborhood
of 20 million tons.
Production target for 1952 is 256,000
tons crudes, some of which are expected
to be hoisted through the co.’s own main
haulage shaft, which is about 1000 ft.
south of the northern boundary and is


Telephones:
FA 2176 (8 lines) Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
From
Scotland —
every
precious
drop
pn
bScoicn)
;Mf IHTeI
BUCHANI#
COW.SCOtiiIJ.
HM~Th E°KU&»
SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACKS. WHITE
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS.
CkASGO* «. LON DON.
RJUTAUCHIBS OISTIUfftY. MULBEN, SPEY SIDE .SCOTLAHB
RET CONTENTS I PINT 6 FLUID OZS
Vi
jT.i)
BUCHANAN'S
BLACK & WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
to H.M. King George VI
ŕ
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd,
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW, SCOTLAND
JB2
* w
RUPTURED
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture. A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure-
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
ŗ
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
1139 X311191U 3HI
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method”
NAME
ADDRESS....
STATE
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
[DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Fi/t-er
m
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
already handling mullock from
development on No. 22 level.
Surface crushing plant has been
completed, except for the dust-
extractipn unit, installation of
the crushed-ore conveyor is well
advanced, and No. 1 section of
the mill has been finished. Also
the new service shaft has been
stripped to 2617 ft, and is
concreted for all but the last
13ft. When the mine is fully
equipped and developed it will
rave a crushing and milling
capacity of about 450,000 tons
p.a.
The year’s capital expenditure
was £l,2l9,l6l—plant £779,041
and mine £440,147 —and was
met from the co.’s own
resources:
1950. 1951.
Cash, Govt, bonds £1,873,170 £1,980,288
Debtors . . . . 485,774 259,006
Stocks ~ .. 135,482 141,110
£2,494,426 £2,380,410
Less liabilities* . . 1,069,598 1,661,204
Net current assets £1,424,828 £719,206
Machinery, etc.
(less depreciation) 820,654 1,421,870
Mine expenditure
account.. .. 1,888,285 2,328,432
Paid capital .. 1,120,592 1,120,592
Reserves .. .. 3,013.177 3,348.716
All amounts shown are sterling.
* Includes provision for taxation.
Liabilities include provision of
£1,051,737 for current and future
taxation. The large holding of
Government securities and cash
should be sufficient to meet
capital outlay for the current
term.
On the production side the
outlook is expansionary. Of the
many cross-currents likely to
affect earnings, the two big
imponderables are metal prices
and costs. Except for the lead-
bonus paid to employees, it is
difficult to say when any sub-
stantial reduction in costs can
be expected. World markets for
lead and zinc now present a very
different picture than they did a
year ago. Then the trend was all
toward scarcity, restriction and
price-increases; now it is the
other way. However, prices of
the two metals are still at highly-
profitable levels. And, unless
the American business setback
becomes really severe, it is
expected that demand will
remain strong, though satisfied.
Expectations are that metal
prices will firm around present
levels.
Alluvial Gold, Ltd., has re-
ceived titles to its main Battle-
Nettle Creek tin-dredging leases
between Ravenshoe and Mt.
Garnet, on the Atherton Table-
land (N.Q.), and will presently
form anew co., Ravenshoe Tin
Dredging, Ltd., to equip and
work the property. Details of
.capitalisation and of the number
of shares in the new co. to be
made available to those on
Alluvial’s register wifi be an-
nounced later. The ground,
check-bored, is estimated to con-
tain 31,000,000 c.y., averaging
10.50 z. to., assaying 72 p.c.
metallic tin. Total payment to
the vendors, Australian Iron and
Steel, Ltd., is £40,000. It is pro-
posed to buy Barrytown’s
2,500,000-p.a. bucket - dredge,
which is stored near the wharf
at Greymouth (N.Z.) ready for
shipment.
VICKERS LIMITED
ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR
AT HOME AND OVERSEA
SIR RONALD WEEKS ON THE
GROUP’S MANIFOLD ACTIVITIES
The Eighty-fifth Annual General
Meeting of Vickers Limited was held on
May 23 at Caxton Hall, London, S.W.,
Lieutenant-General Sir Ronald M.
Weeks, E.C.8., C.8.E., D. 5.0., M.C.,
T.D., the chairman, presiding.
A detailed review by the chairman of
the group’s activities had been circulated
to members with the report and accounts
for the year ended December 31, 1951, in
the course of which it was stated: —
Transport. —Throughout 1951, as in
each of the past five years, a very high
level of activity has been maintained in
all the works of the group which are
engaged on equipment for transport. In
spite of serious shortages of labour and
materials, it has been possible to continue
the remarkable output of ships, aircraft,
railway rolling stock and road passenger
vehicles and thus to assist transport ope-
rators throughout the world in their pro-
grammes of expansion and re-equipment.
Shipbuilding. —Of the seven ships de-
livered by Vickers-Armstrongs in 1951,
two were passenger liners, two were cargo
and passenger vessels and three were oil
tankers. The total tonnage delivered was
approximately 112,000 gross tons.
The present order book for ships covers
work for some years ahead.
Cockatoo Docks. —The situation at the
dockyard of the Cockatoo Docks & En-
gineering Co. Pty. Ltd. at Sydney remains
the same as in 1950, and the highest
priority is still given to the construction
of destroyers for the Royal Australian
Navy, Preparations are being made for
the construction of two fast frigates
which are to follow the destroyers, and
considerable progress has been made on
the conversion of two older destroyers to
fast escort vessels. The modernisation of
the S.S. “Arunta” is also proceeding.
During the year a large amount of ship
repair and general engineering work has
been carried out but, unfortunately, short-
age of labour has prevented the acceptance
of numerous other orders. Maintenance
is continually in hand, and a number of
new machine tools have been installed.
Labour conditions have been difficult
during the year, and rising costs are the
cause of increasing concern.
Aviation. —Throughout the year Wey-
bridge and Supermarine have been build-
ing up their output to meet the heavy
demands of the Ministry of Supply under
the rearmament programme. At both
works the main problem has been the
difficulty of obtaining the requisite labour,
although the supply of materials, espe-
cially steel, has also caused anxiety.
■ Road and Rail Transport. —The Metro-
politan-Cammell Carriage and Wagon Co.
Limited has had a satisfactory year,
though shortage of steel and shipping pre-
vented full realisation of its manufactur-
ing resources, with the result that total
deliveries were less than the record high
level reached in 1950. Exports of rail-
way vehicles to Commonwealth countries
and Crown Colonies represented the
greatest part of the company’s output,
while large deliveries were made to
British Railways.
Further export orders have been secured
against increasingly severe competition
from the Continent and elsewhere, and, as
i result, the company has an extensive
manufacturing programme for 1952.
Heavy Engineering. —In all the works
and departments engaged on heavy en-
gineering, there has been an increase in
the volume of armament work. This has
ed to a gradual reduction of commercial
output, but nevertheless sales of the
group’s established commercial products
have been well maintained.
Heavy Engineering in Australia. —
The accounts of Vickers Ruwolt Pro-
prietary Limited, although not quite as
good as those of previous years, can be
regarded as satisfactory. The reduction
in profit is accounted for by reduced
sales, which in turn can be attributed
to the fact that no large jobs were com-
pleted in the period; output, however,
was quite good, and the result has been
a considerable increase in the “work-in-
progress” stock, from which benefit will
be obtained in the future.
There has been no major change in the
nature of the Company’s business, which
continues to be the supply of equipment
for the Mining, Paper and Rubber In-
dustries, and the manufacture of Hydraulic
Presses, but this year has seen the start
of the manufacture of units for the Malt-
ing Trade, which is undertaken under an
agreement with Robert Boby Limited.
A policy of increasing stocks has been
carried out, and these are now in a satis-
factory position. Demand, in every sec-
tion, exceeds the production capacity, and
another successful year is predicted.
Light Engineering. —The work done in
previous years in establishing markets and
increasing the production of the precision-
made equipment for secondary industries
has been consolidated during 1951.
CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH.
In the course of his address to the
, meeting the Chairman paid a tribute to
the great services of the late Commander
Sir Robert Micklem, and said:—
The accounts disclose another successful
year, and once again I would like to pay
tribute to everybody concerned at the head
office and in all the subsidiaries both at
home and overseas for the hard work and
skill which have contributed to our
success.
To ensure closer liaison between the
Australian Companies! Eng. Captain
G. I. D. Hutcheson, 8.E., the Managing
Director of Cockatoo Docks and Engineer-
ing Co. Pty. Limited, was appointed a
Director of Vickers Ruwolt Proprietary
Limited. At the same time the Managing
Director of the latter Company, Mr. A.
Campbell, joined the Board of the Cocka-
too Company.
As was foreseen, the demand on our
armament potential is steadily increasing,
and we now have a clearer picture of the
production requirements of all three Ser-
vices.
The steel distribution scheme, which
was forecast in the autumn of 1951 and
was introduced in February, 1952, took
some time to get into operation, and now
there is superimposed upon it a scheme
of super-priority for certain of our arma-
ments, especially aircraft. I anticipate
that there may be some bottlenecks* espe-
cially in alloy steel, but I cannot state
that up to date we have been seriously
held back in our contribution to the
rearmament programme for the lack of
steel or other raw materials.
We are, as everyone is aware, fully
occupied on equipment for Army and.
Royal Navy requirements, and in the case
of all Services we are carrying our share
in highly important research and de-
velopment work.
In the commercial field we are ex-
tremely busy to the maximum extent con-
sistent with the special effort on arma-
ments; the shipbuilding programme is
full up for some years to come.
It remains to be seen whether material
shortages are going to cause delays in
our schedules; our inability to get suffi-
cient quantities of steel is still causing
us concern.
Our entry into the heavy tractor field
started last month. Our Newcastle works
and Messrs. Rolls-Royce have surmounted
all technical troubles incurred up to date
and will. I anticipate, continue to do so
in the future ; production of the YR. 180
model should now rise steadily, and the
design of a second model is well under
way.
EXPORT AND OVERSEA INVEST-
MENT.
Although the armament programme
creates certain limitations all companies
in the group continue to secure a large
volume of orders for export; our associ-
ated company, Metropolitan-Cammell Car-
riage and Wagon Co., in particular, export
more than 50 p.c. of their products.
Vickers-Armstrongs also are exporting
their products in considerable volume;
these include British clearing presses,
cement-making machinery to the extent
of 80 p.c. of their production, mechanical
parts of electric winders for South Africa,
and printing machines to the extent of at
least 65 p.c. of their total production ; a
substantial volume of our printing
machines is being exported to the United
States and to Canada.
A large proportion of the production
of the industrial tractor to which I have
referred will almost certainly go oversea,
and this will provide a valuable addition
to the export programme of this country;
in this connection the Australian Gov-
ernment has indicated its willingness to
allow the import of 100 tractors in the
next 12 months.
Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co.
Pty. Limited, our shipyard and engineer-
ing works at Sydney, is fully employed
on Australian naval requirements and
commercial repair work; the new Daring
destroyer Voyager, the first all-welded
naval ship to be built in Australia, was
successfully launched from this yard by
Mrs. Menzies, the wife of the Australian
Prime Minister, on March 1.
Vickers Ruwolt at Melbourne is also
fully occupied and is now making a con-
tribution to-the Australian defence pro-
gramme in addition to its production of
heavy engineering equipment and struc-
tural steelwork.
STEEL.
The situation arising out of the pro-
posed denationalisation of steel is of vital
interest to all of us, but since the draft
Bill has not yet been published it is still
impossible to be precise as to what is
likely to be our course of action. As 1
have said before, and for the reasons I
set out last year, it would normally be
our desire to reacquire our previous hold-
ing in English Steel Corporation, but the
board would necessarily have regard to
the terms offered and to all the prevail-
ing circumstances in deciding whether
such a step would be in the long-term
interests of the stockholders.
In spite of all the difficult problems
which face us from the point of view of
wage rates, finance and economics, I see
no reason at this stage why 1952 should
not be a satisfactory year.
The report and accounts were adopted-


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Guests-of-honor at the Prince Henry
Hospital annual cabaret ball at the
Royale were the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, and Lady Brooks. The vice-
regal party was received by the president
of the ball committee, Mr. W. K. Burn-
side, and his wife. Lady Brooks, who
wore a lovely gown of palest-pink Chan-
tilly lace over shell-pink satin, was pre-
sented with a bouquet of cyclamens and
pale-pink hyacinths. Mrs. Burnside’s
bouffant gown was of gold faille with an
iridescent effect, the fitting bodice heavily
encrusted with gold-bead embroidery
which continued into the skirt. The 11
debutantes presented to Lady Brooks
wore similar gowns of misty-lilac tulle,
with a posy of French flowers on one
shoulder, and another posy concealed
under a fold of the bouffant skirt. Stoles,
in a slightly deeper tone of lilac, were
worn. In the official party were Mr. and
Mrs. W. J. Jungwirth, the latter wearing
a wide-skirted gown of pale-gold French
satin, Dr. and Mrs. Murray Tallent, Mr.
and Mrs. A. E. Coates and Mr. and Mrs.
A. H. Tolley, she wearing a black lace
gown. Matron Morgan, of Prince Henry,
wore deep-rose-pink taffeta. Mrs. David
Raeburn-Brown’s strapless gown was of
orchid-pink tulle, the skirt composed of
layers of . tube and the cuff of
the bodice finished with matching
pearl embroidery. Mrs. Norman
Strange wore black grey-flower pat-
terned brocade and Mrs. S. Houston
black lace over pink satin, with the strap-
less top canning jewel embroidery.
President MrW.Tom Carlyon and her
committee have every reason to be proud
of the results of their efforts in organising
the dinner-dance at the Delphic for the
Opportunity Clubs. At a party at the
home of Mrs. Eric Avery Mrs. Carlvon
presented to the clubs a cheque for £9OO.
Associated with Mrs, Carlyon in this
venture were Mrs. E. Robertson, who was
treasurer, and Mesdames Leo Curtis and
Graham Nathan, ticket-secretaries. Bill
Napier was at the party, for it was his fur
wraps and stoles which several well-
known young matrons had modelled at
the dinner-dance ; these included Mrs.
Geoffrey Grimwade, Mrs. Maurice
Nicholas, Mrs. John Rodd and Mrs.
Bruce Rose. Lady Clarke, Mrs. Leo
Frankel and Mrs. Lionel Grimwade, who
had also done their share of work in
arranging the function, were at the party.
The university is beginning its appeal
to raise money for an international
students’ hostel by holding a huge fair,
which begins on Friday night, June 27,
and continues next day and night. At
present, overseas and country students are
living in a house which has been con-
demned by the authorities, so the need
for a hostel is urgent. The combined
political clubs will run a non-stop review
on the hour, every hour. Mountaineering
Society members will scale the University
buildings and demonstrate the art of
cooking flapjacks with one match. Then
there will be the usual collection of
stalls where sweets, Continental foods,
cake and refreshments may be bought.
The Hogarth puppets will be on show,
and the Marlowe Society is giving special
performances. In the forefront of a very
special committee are organiser John
Barnard, of Ormond College, university
warden Barbour and the president of the
S.R.C., Sam Dimmick. On the 27th also
will be the International Ball, at which
winners of the beaux and belles compe-
tition will be crowned.
A number of stars in the theatrical
firmament were guests at the party given
by Bill Hodge, English actor who is
appearing in “Seagulls Over Sorrento.”
Lovely Jessie Matthews, a guest-of-honor,
was with her daughter Catherine. Tommy
Trinder was there ; so were Joy Turpin
and her husband Morgan Davies, who
are in “Kiss Me Kate,” and American
Hayes Gordon, who plays opposite Joy.
The party was held at the Toorak home
of Mrs. D. J. Ross, who wore a frock
of soft bronze velvet. Among the lead-
ing amateurs was Frank Thring, who is
in “The Man Who Came to Dinner,”
also his leading lady, Loveday Hills.
Among other guests were the Frank
Taits, the David Martins, Mr. and Mrs.
Thornton Grimwade, Mesdames C. Cald-
well and E. Grant and Maree Haraby.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. John Inkster,
lent her support to the current appeal for
the Victorian Association of Day Nur-
series and Creches by organising a musi-
cale which was held in the Town Hall
reception-room. Included in the items
given by pianist Eunice Garland and
singer Verona Cappadona were composi-
tions of Australian Phyllis Batchelor and
Edith Harrhy. Other artists who donated
their services were singer Lance Ingram
and violinist Milton Holden, and the pro-
gramme was admirably compered by
Joyce Macartney. Following the musicale
Mrs. Inkster entertained at afternoon-tea.
She wore a black Persian-lamb coat and
a miniature coolie hat. Among the
audience were the wife of the American
Consul-General, Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins,
Mrs. Charles Burge, the president of the
Day Nurseries Association, Mrs. W. F.
Brownell, Dame Mary Daly, and, wives
of City Councillors, Mrs. J. Ferguson,
Mrs. George Hume and Mrs. Bernard
Evans.
There were about 300 at the ball held
by the Bachelors Club of St. Arnaud and
surrounding districts. President of the
club, A. Scullary, received the guests,
among them the Hugh Camerons, who
entertained about 100 for drinks prior to
the ball. Mrs. Cameron wore a crocus-
yellow-and-silver lame gown which had
a cowl neckline and slightly draped skirt.
With Dr. W. Etheredge was his wife,
who wore a classic gown of white crepe.
Wanda Shilliday’s frock of midnight-blue
tulle was patterned with silver roses. Joy
Podger’s black taffeta gown had a wide
halter-collar of pink broderie Anglaise.
In Mr. and Mrs. H. Vanrenen’s party was
Prue Beggs, of Beaufort, whose striking
dress of crushed-grape crepe had a tiny
Empire bodice of hyacinth-blue-and-
dusty-pink faille. From Stawell came the
Eugene O’Driscolls, .she in a bouffant
gown of black tulle scattered with gold
sequins. Mrs. Don Smith, of Paradise,
wore a wide-skirted gown of ciel-blue
satin with a cuffed bodice and shoestring
straps. The luxurious supper was pre-
pared and served by women of the local
auxiliary, who specialise in catering for
parties, giving all proceeds to the local
R.S.L.
This photo is of Gwen, only child of
Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Hattam, of Toorak,
who is an Old Girl of St. Michael’s C.
of E, Grammar School and a member
of the committee organising the school’s
annual ball. She is doing her third year
in pharmacy at the university, and is also
a member of the West Fawkner Young
Liberal Movement. Music and tennis are
other interests.
The English-Speaking Union Younger
Members Group is planning a masque
ball for August 29 at the Delphic. Pro-
ceeds are for the American branch of the
Australian Red Cross; prizes will be
given for the most beautiful mask as well
as for the most original one. Recently
the E.-S.U. clubroom was the venue for
a party when plans for the ball were
finalised. Geoffrey Ingram, president of
the Younger Members Group, was host,
and he was assisted by Mrs. Graham
Egertdn, secretary of the E.-S.U. Other
members of the committee present were
Mrs. David Cheadle and Mrs. George
Uhrich, representing the American Red
Cross, and Mrs, W. Dobinson. Tickets
for the ball are three guineas a double
and may be had on application from
Marguerite Weir (BJ 2840) or Rosemary
Gipps (WF 3947).
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Lynch gave a
buffet-dinner party at their home on
Mrs. Lynch’s return from Honolulu. The
hostess wore an attractive frock and
matching jacket of junior-blue tie-silk.
Mrs. George Hanger and Mrs. L. Green
wore black, the latter adding a stole of
pastel-pink silk embroidered in gold. A.
‘draped bodice and fully-pleated skirt
were features of the black frock worn by
Mrs. E. Haisman, and beads embellished
Alice Wyatt’s black frock. Mrs. Don
Hutchison chose junior-blue crepe for
her ensemble. Mrs. George Lawrence’s
frock was in hyacinth-blue toning.
From Sydney
The opera season finished with a grand
flourish last Saturday night, when the
Governor was present with his daughter
Elizabeth. The front row of the dress-
circle fairly glittered with officialdom —
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (in
pale-blue with a mink stole), the Premier
and Mrs. Cahill, the Minister for Educa-
tion and Mrs. Heffron, Mr. and Mrs. Erik
Langker, Mr, and Mrs. Carl Lorenz.
After the performance, which included
the prologue from “Pag.,” the first act of
“Cav.,” the scene where Don Giovanni is
borne off to hell, the church scene from
“Tosca” and the bridal scene from
“Lucia,” there was a party on the stage
(always exciting to any but the most blase).
Most of the devout opera-goers were
present: Dr. and Mrs. Tom Bateman, Mr.
and Mrs, Frank Louat, Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Bunning, Madame Marotta,
Madame Dora Scott, Mrs. Peggy Foun-
tain, Miss Jean Garling, Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Jenkyn, Mr. and Mrs. C, R.
McKerihan, Mr. and Mrs. Mark Barnett,
Madame Mathy, all the opera stars and
many of the chorus. It was a gay party,
unusual and enjoyable.
When Primrose Anderson Stuart (in
the picture) was married on Thursday to
Dr. Roger Dunlop she was attended by
five bridesmaids, Annette Dunlop, Mar-
jorie Martin, Patricia Strelitz, Patricia
Perkins and Lyn Davidson. The bride
wore white satin appliqued with Chantilly
lace. The bridesmaids’ dresses were of
green organza. The bridegroom, who is
the son of Dr. and Mrs. Leslie Dunlop,
of Point Piper, was attended by Andrew
Taylor (Werris Creek), Dr. Jim Furber,
Peter Playfair, Peter Anderson Stuart and
David Gordon, of Bungendore. The bride
is the only daughter of Mrs. E. C. Ander-
son Stuart, of Darling Point, and Dr,
B. P. Anderson Stuart, of Potts Point.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
The Dragon Festival Ball, which creates
for itself a unique atmosphere of festivity,
attracted this year 1650 dancers to the
Trocadero. The decorations were 20ft.
dragon murals, lighted lanterns, cut-out
dragon figures and flowers. Novelties
were curious little satin pincushions with
little Chinese men clinging to them, and
some highly-edible Chinese cakes. The
16 debs, who included Glenda Gee from
Darwin and Eva Fong and Patricia
Wong from Tingha, were presented by
Mrs. D. Y. Narine to the Consul-General
for China and Mrs. Martin Wang. There
was a particularly large official party,
with the diplomatic corps well rep-
resented and the “heads of the services”
present with their wives. Entertaining
large parties were Mrs. W. H. Oong and
Mrs. Arthur Leedow.
Friday 13th was the date of the Medical
Ball, so huge black cats marched round
the bandstand and offset the huge hand-
made paper flowers that decorated the
wall behind the official table. The ghost
walked at midnight to horror music when
an infra-red light shone on the luminous
boned skeleton in the centre of the Troc.
and cowled skeletonic students invaded
the hall. There were about 1200 dancers
presided over by Professor H. Dew
and Mrs. Dew, looking as fresh as her
name after a full day’s work at the
decorations. In the official party were
Professor and Mrs. K. Ward, Mrs.
Spencer Hollaway, Mrs. E. B. Jones, Mrs.
Noel Dobell Brown and Mrs. Oliver
Latham—all accompanied by their doctor
husbands.
The University Settlement Ball was held
on the same night as the Medical Ball,
which threw various people into a dither
deciding which to go to. The Settlement
Ball was held in the Great Hall of the
University, and the 37 debutantes were
presented to the chancellor, Sir
Charles Bickerton Blackburn, by Lady
Anderson. It was a really lovely presen-
tation in a beautiful setting. Noticed
Valerie Jenkyn, daughter of the Norman
Jenkyns, looking lovely in a dress of lace
and nylon net over a crinoline.
Several of the debs and their partners
went on to the Medical Ball (in quite the
London fashion). They included Wendy
Burrell, whose parents, Dr. and Mrs.
Burrell, of Griffith, entertained a large
party for her. Among their guests were
Mr. and Mrs. Brian Parle, Tom Reynolds,
Caroline Nihill, Bob Chapman, debutantes
Mary Rose Wall, Pauline Riley and
Helen Hayes, with David Nelson, Frank
Hardy and Geoff Crossley.
The training of nurses’ assistants was
urged by Miss M. Lions, president of the
N.S.W. College of Nursing, at the gradua-
tion ceremony during the week. Miss
Lions said that many diseases, such as
typhoid, scarlet-fever and pneumonia, no
longer need the highly-skilled nursing
they had needed in the past. Other
diseases formerly looked on as acute were
now regarded as chronic, and called for a
different type of nursing which could
be undertaken by girls who failed to
qualify as fully-trained nurses, but were
often very kind, lovable and thoughtful.
The diplomas and certificates of the
college, which offers post-graduate courses
free of charge to nurses, were presented
by the Federal president of the 8.M.A.,
Dr. A. J. Collins. Those who completed
their courses successfully were Jessie I.
Mudge (with highest marks), Helen
Makinson, Janet Wedderburn, Nola
Field, Ada Taylor, Felicity Gordon (who
came originally from Roma (Q.), and
is now the wife of Dr. R. W. Sinclair,
of Lake Cargelligo), and Gwenda
McEachern, at present on her way to
England,
Ex-students of St. Vincent’s College
will hold their annual ball in aid of the
convent building fund at Prince’s on
Monday, July 7. Debs will be presented
to Mrs. G. S. MacKinnon by Mrs. A. T.
Burne, and the president, Mrs. J. Christie,
will entertain representatives from other
colleges. Bookings can be made by the
honorary secretary, Mrs. R. J. Speight
(LA2296), from whom tickets may be
obtained.
How to help parents of subnormal
children in remote country districts was
one of the subjects for discussion at the
first inter-State conference of the Sub-
normal Children’s Welfare Association.
Mr. Mil McNamara told the delegates
that in Victoria a questionnaire had been
drawn up by experts which could be sent
to the country and which, when sent back,
showed the child’s particular problem, if,
for instance, he had difficulty in doing
up his shoes, the association would send
back information on how to teach him
to do so. If he were interested in paint-
ing he would be sent suitable material,
and so on. In Victoria a new publica-
tion is also planned, “The Helping Hand,”
to which country people can write in
for advice on their problems, and which
will educate the public on the psychology
of the subnormal. Mr. McNamara said
that once people acknowledged that then-
child was subnormal something could be
done by discussion, education and the
feeling of companionship that member-
ship of the association gave.
Next function on the agenda of the
Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund committee
is a jumble sale at the Paddington Town
Hall on July 18, to be followed by
another on the 25th. Residents in the
neighborhood will be reminded of these
on the previous Thursdays, when a
mobile amplifier will parade the district,
but in case one doesn’t live in those parts
it’s as well to make a note of the dates
now.
Mr. Donald Smith, American Consul-
General, opened the annual exhibition of
the Australian Art Society at David
Jones’ last Wednesday. There are 132
works shown, which, even if somewhat
unadventurous, are the products of artists
who don’t suffer from defective eyesight,
which really is a relief to the lay onlooker
these days. Noted at the opening were
Madame Scott, TEneid Fleming, Peggy
Fountain, Casper Middleton and Byram
Mansell. The talk was largely of a very
impatient review of the show which had
appeared that morning, many agreeing
with Mr. Donald Smith that the exhibi-
tion was bound to be a success because
it had been attacked.
News comes from England that Joan
Gadsdon, who was born in Lithgow and
started her dancing career with the
Borovansky Ballet, is appearing in the
“Half-past Eight Show” in Glasgow with
Gerald McMorrow, from Perth (W.A.),
as partner. After Glasgow the show
moves to Edinburgh in time for
Edinburgh Festival —a glittering time to
be there, as the Queen and Prince Philip
are to attend.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Carlton-born Dr. Carleton Kemp Allen,
M.C., Q.C., D.C.L. (Oxon.), got an
English knighthood in the Birthday
honors. Warden of Rhodes House,
Oxford, and secretary of the Rhodes
Trustees since 1931, he is known wherever
legal textbooks are pondered over, having
written many of them. He has also
written short stories and a novel , Tlie
Judgment of Paris. He won his M.C.
with the 13th Middlesex Regiment in
World War I, was subsequently called to
the Bar in London, and figured high up
in the legal faculty at Oxford until he
resigned to become Rhodes Warden. Ine
late “Barney” Allen, vice-master of
Ormond at the University of Melbourne,
was a brother —Dr. L. H. Allen, now or
the Canberra University staff, is another.
Talking of the origin of folksongs ...
Burl Ives, the American wandering
minstrel who is picking up a few bob
from the A.B.C. wandering from Town
Hall to Town Hall twanging his guitar
and singing cowboy folksongs, pricked up
his ears when he heard Mcßeath humming
an unfamiliar tune as he made this sketch
in the burly musician’s dressing-room.
“Is that an Australian fawksong?” he
asked. “Well, in a sense I suppose it
is, said Mcßeath. “Anyhow, I wrote
it. “Would you sing it to me?” said
the balladist, always anxious to add to
his repertoire. So Mcßeath sang his
“The Song of the Boomerang,” the one
SONGS .
of the 70-odd he has had published in
which he voices his deep regret that his
money hasn’t the homing habits ot the
abo weapon, though his cheques have.
“Waal,” said Burl, “I’ve heard a whole lot
of Australian songs, but this is the one I
like best,” and invited the caricaturist
to accompany him on his flight to Sydney,
and let him make • a recording of lus
ditty Mcßeath consented, and they ten
to yarning. While posing, Burl hummed
a tune he had heard sung as a marching
song by U.S. troops embarking for Korea.
It was, the artist was surprised to recog-
nise, “I’m Going Back to Yarrawonga
the well-known song Mcßeath wrote
when he got a blighty in World War I.
“I was told that it was a noo South
American fawksong,” Burl Ives said.
Talking of the origin of folksongs . . .
“Macnell” on a non-sailing naval
expert i —■
Cecil Scott Forester’s latest Horn-
hlower is selling as well as his other books
the redoubtable sailor. I don’t
scores of times I’ve been asked. Was Forester
ever in the Navy?” Admired by Churchill,
Mountbatten and a considerable yardage ot
R N sold-braid, Forester has never been to sea
in a warship, his marine adventuies
having been confined mainly to navigating
French rivers in a punt. For long interested
in the psychological aspects of independent com
mand, he once picked up, second-hand, a 1798
edition of a master-manner s handbook. From
that manual, meticulously studied, stems h
encyclopaedic knowledge of handling a 19th
century ship of the line. Born in Cairo, m
1899, Forester had early ideas of a suigicai
career—halted abruptly when, examined at Guy s
Hospital, he failed to identify a single bone
in the human skeleton. He took on verse-
writing—mainly imprpfitaWy—then produced A
novel, Payment Deferred. The film version,
played by Charles Laughton, brought Forester
fame Hornblower first stalked his quarter-
deck in 1937, and has been engaging French
privateers and French ladies ever since. Balding,
bespectacled, large-nosed and humorous-
mouthed, looking more like a successful
accountant than a salt-water novelist, Forestei
writes to a strict schedule —2000 wor “S day
in longhand. ' It brings him in some £20,000 a
year. The last Hornblower story, in which the
72-year-old Admiral keeps the Last Trick, is
already written, kept in a safe, with instructions
to stay there till after his creator’s death.
Forester now lives in California, suffering from
arteriosclerosis of the legs, contracted while
aboard the U.S. battleship Tennessee off the
Aleutians in 1943. But Hornblower gives him
all the action he needs.
Already, at 36, managing-director of
the Victorian branch of Lewis Berger and
Sons, the paint people, William Vines has
been appointed a director of the parent
company. Off to the U.S. and London
to increase his know-how, Vines has
travelled a bit before —with the 2/ 2 j
Battalion of the well-blooded 9th Divi-
sion, in the Middle East, New Guinea
and Borneo. Enlisting private, he was
commissioned in 1940, and ended the
war with a brace of “mentions” and his
majority. Working for Legacy and pro-
ducing colors in his garden take up the
paint-man’s spare time.
Mrs. We of the Never Never /Eneas
Gunn, still going strong with a birth-
day this month, left her suburban
villa in Hawthorn the other day and
paid a visit to the Melbourne Public
Library with two books under her arm.
One was the world-known narrative ot
the Territory which has run into millions
of copies, the other was The Little Black
Princess. Each is stuffed with photo-
graphs and autographs of the characters
who walked and rode through her pages,
and whom she met when she gave up her
schoolteaching job and went with her
husband to the Territory cattle-station
she made famous nearly 50 years ago.
Most of them are dead now. Dr. Irving
Benson, the president of the trustees,
locked the precious volumes up; it is
difficult to know what else he could do
with ’em. Thousands will want to see
them.
“M ”: The other day Australian pilots
stood bareheaded on an airstrip in Korea
—and well they might have. They were
honoring at a funeral service a dead
fellow-pilot, one who was wont to go
up in a tiny Auster spottmg-aircraft,
armed with a .45 on his hip and nothing
else. N Austers are used for directing
ground- and air-fire onto enemy troops,
guns, tanks, and so on. They must fly
slowly, at not much above zero elevation,
as near to the enemy as they can get
and the enemy, naturally, pays them
marked attention. Of this game Auster
breed was Captain B. T. Luscombe, of
Cronulla (Sydney), who had flown
hundreds of hours over Communist trout
lines. On this day enemy ground-fire
reached up and nailed him. He tried to
land his riddled plane on an advanced
airstrip, but crashed into the side ot a
cliff above the Imjin River. That peculiar
breed, carrier-pilots, are not known tor
an overabundance of regard for danger.
But every one of those 1 have met has
been unanimous, generous and definite m
his respect for the Auster-men.
of Glory’s and Sydney’s men will have
known Luscombe.
Having been diplomatic in three con-
tinents, Dr. W. A. Wynes comes back
to Australia to a new post in the Depart-
ment of External Affairs. A bespectacled,
lean-faced scholar, who joined the de-
partment in 1938, he filled his first job
abroad in Ottawa and then went on to
Nanking, where he was appointed First
Secretary of the Australian Embassy to
China in 1947. After Nanking he became
charge d’affaires at the Australian Em-
bassy in Dublin. A South Australian, ne
topped off his law-course at Adelaide
University by qualifying for the doc-
torate.
“M.G.”: There is no doubt that
Gertrude Johnson, founder of the Mel-
bourne National Theatre, and her pro-
ducer, William P. Carr, have made a
remarkable “do” of their movement. The
latest development is a tour, under the
auspices of the Council of Adult Educa-
tion, of the company which gave such
an excellent performance of Shaw’s “St.
Joan” at the Princess Theatre. June
Brunell will be the star, and with the
mummers goes the whole £2OOO ward-
robe. Twenty-four country centres and
towns in N.S.W. and South Australia will
see the greatest play of the greatest
modern playwright in a first-class presen-
tation. Nothing like this has happened
before in rural entertainment.
Passed into dock for retirement. Captain
William Baddams takes with him more
knowledge of Adelaide s harbor than is
on the Admiralty charts. At sea almost
as soon as he shipped long pants, he
was with the Adelaide Steamship Co. for
11 years from 1911, clewing-up with his
master’s ticket. He finally berthed at
Wallaroo in 1922, harbormaster. After
a short term at that he took on piloting
in Port Adelaide (his birthplace), be-
coming harbormaster in 1925. He was
still in that post, with the added job of
port-superintendent, when Father Time
counselled docking.
Birthday honors brought an 0.8. E.
to Claude Hotchin, a rangy Perth
businessman who has done the work ol
ten in encouraging appreciation or art
among Westralians. For years he has
given free use of premises to enab e
artists to hold exhibitions, and he has
established two valuable prizes for annual
competition among Westralian artists.
As well, he has donated pictures to form
a nucleus for art-galleries in country
centres like Geraldton, Albany and Bun-
bury; and, in the Jubilee celebrations,
he was chairman of the committee whicn
organised art-competitions. Outside the
art-gallery he has given much time
money to philanthropic causes, and has
been for years a member of the council
of the W.A. Sctoiety for Crippled Children.
Recently made a member of the Univer-
sity senate, he is known as well for his
smile as for his philanthropy.
All sections of the New Australian
community in Victoria are coming to
know Adrian Moulden, a young Mel-
bourne businessman who runs a specialty
typewriter service. It has moved so far
with the times that it is already supplying
machines with keyboards and typefaces
to cope with the complexities of vowel-
sounds and consonants of half a dozen
lingoes. Local ingenuity, added to an
overseas airmail supply of characters,
enables almost immediate provision of
otherwise standard machines capable o
chattering in Thai or Hindustani, Turkish
or Hebrew, German or Greek. Consul-
ates and foreign business representatives
appreciate it, as do hostesses who indulge
in personalised typewritten correspond-
ence. Moulden himself is a two-finger
expert, though he has lived typewriters
for 26 years.
“Uramao”: New Zealander Nigel
Neilson, recently landed home from U.K.,
has made his way in British films. He
had roles in Disney’s new “Robin
and in “The Card,” “Dead on Course
and “The Magic Box,” the story of
Friese-Greene, the early cinematographer,
in which many of the top-line British
stars appeared. Married to Pamela
Sheppard, the Sadler’s Wells ballet-
dancer now working with Robert Help-
mann, Neilson was a lieut-colonel in the
late war, winning Legion d Honneui,
Croix de Guerre and Medal Militaue
for his work in the French resistance-
movement.
“El V.” has a visitor:
A smiling face, rugged and illuminated with
goodness and courage, put itself roundthedo
during the week, and was followedby tne
Napoleonic form of Brigadier Arthur Mcllveen
of the Salvation Army. He was promptly
surrounded, and, with hands high herded into
Prior’s room' at the point of the bayonet ana
left to Office Intelligence for interrogation, ror
the next hour shouts of laughter came out o
The Bulletin's MIS. Nobody who was
North Africa will, however, need to iook at
the records to give an amount of Arthur
Mcllveen, beloved by every Tobruk Rat hving
or dead, or of his little gramophone (now in
the Canberra War Museum). He was to Tobruk
legend what the Man with the Donkey was to
Gallinoli. The other day, on his retirement
to a holiday, incidentally, d ? v °|; ed
looking after Old Diggers irt hospitals and
other odd corners —the Tobruk Rats of Queens-
land Association presented him with a ciUtio
as part of a substantial testimonial dedicated
fn his name; “You had so little to give, yet
your constant smile, faith in victory, courage,
complete disregard of your own comfortat all
times, your humility and self-effacement, tn
SALVOS.
driving force which took you far beyond the
call of extraordinary duty, the refining in^ uen S
you brought to bear upon the hardened and
weary soldiers of many nations, the ? 0 ™
you gave the wounded and dying, fnend or
foe . . ■ all these things stand for all times
as a symbol of a Christian and soldierly gentle-
man, your mark of a valiant Australain. Them
are six signatures on behalf of the Rat >
including that of the inimitable Reg Terguson,
a “permanently-disabled” Rodent, who organised
the testimonial. The first is that of John
Lavarack, Governor of Queensland, the last
that of Sir Leslie Morshead.
Accounted for here by Gordon, Richard
Pickering had been around a bit in the
banking world before settling in ms
present post, manager of the Bank of
N. S. Wales in Brisbane. Earlier with the
old Australian Joint Stock Bank,
managed branches from Brisbane to
Cairns, then spent four years trying
put paid to Wilhelm, finishing that
ness with his captaincy and the Belgxa
Croix de Guerre. With the A.J.S. married
SPONDULICKS.
to the Wales, Pickering picked up the
threads again, this time managing i
branches as far apart as Sydney
Townsville, Suva and Melbourne. While
in Suva he spent two terms on the Legis-
lative Council. Away from the vaults he
fishes for fish in Moreton Bay and tor
spondulicks with the Red Cross Appeal
committee.
“Ek D.”: Dead in W.A., at 57, Brigadier
lan Grant FuUarton, M.C. One of t
earliest of Duntrooners to enlist m the first
A.I.F. —he had been a member of the Australian
coronation contingent at 16, m 19 „ , , :
throughout World War I, and opened his
second war, in 1939, as a lieutenant-co one,
having been adjutant to three famous fighti g
battalfonsT 2nd/ 9/15 and 31st, and brigade,
maior to no fewer than seven brigades—the
Tl 5 7 10, 11, 14 Infantry. He was chief
instructor and C.O. Central Training
1939- and chief instructor at the No. i
Officers’ .Training Depot, LxverpwL (N^.W.h
1940- G.5.0.l to the sth Div. m the
following year, and then commanded the Htn
Brigade and the 14th Bngadc—which
“Ginger Force”—on Goodenough and Milne Bay
Fortress Command. He took over Tae base,
afterwards returning to Australia and .| nd i J
the war as B.G.S. 2nd Army. From 1945 until
a year or so ago he held command of the 7th
Military District, with H.Q. at Darwin. A
good athlete in his youth, he was likeable,
friendly and hospitable and an excellent racon-
teur unlucky in that he was born just too late
to reach field rank in World War 1 and thus
reach the part of the ladder leading to early
high promotion. A fine soldier and a splendid
trainer of men, he had friends in every come
of Australia.
“H.B ”: Still on deck at something
over 70, Lieut.-Commander Stewart (Sam)
Keightley, ex-R.A.N., lives out his retire-
ment within smell of the sea at Toronto,
on Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.). Son of an
early mayor of Newcastle, the veteran
ranks well up amongst the oldest Aus-
tralian-born officers of the R.A.N. Join-
ing it in its infant days (1906), he was one
of the contingent sent to England to bring
out the original squadron, returning wi h
the River-class destroyer Yarra. Later
he commanded gunboat Protector. Ol
Navy hands of the War I period will
remember Sam as one of the services
smartest seamen and its damnedest hard
case. Something of the Hotspur about
Sam in the handling of ships ; anecdotes
are legion. A fair example concerns the
occasion when he took Yarra at fu
speed across the bows of the first Au -
tralia. Irate yell through megaphone
from the flagship’s bridge: Keightley,
what the devil are you doing. Sam
(laconically), “About thirty, sir.
Into the Silence:
At 85, in Melbourne, John Steven Hart,
Rishoo of Wangaratta for 16 years. Curate at
Robert Charles Philp, son ot
Sir Robert Philp and member of one of the
northern State’s oldest pastoral families. One
Hme nartner in Thylungra (the largest sheep-
station in Queensland, near Quilpie), and owner
nf Soringfield, in the same district, R.C. was
Sue of S first members of the Flying Doctor
Service council, and, for good mcasur ,
mining-engineer. He was in at the Y
onening-up of several goldmines near M.
Morgan, and extended his interests to a duec
ship of a goldmining company in .Malaya.
At 77, in Melbourne, Herbert Carey Tucker,
OB E M.K.A. f ßelgium), a pioneei ot oil
exploration in Australia and the originator of
the “button” appeals which raised thousands
of nounds during World War I. His Belgi
award was a recognition of the large sums h
raised for that country. He was chairman ot
directors of a Queensland oil-group and a
director of Fowler’s Vacola Proprietary, Ltd.
InMelbourne, at 66, Ernest Harold Bourne,
former Chief Inspector of Telegraphs, who com
pletely reorganised Australia’s Telegraph-service
in 1932, bringing it up to world standard.


TOLD BY BELL’S
No. 9
;
rm
'Sm.
€
fT'roJi
Dumb-founded!
Aix-la-Chapelle in the eighth
century. The Emperor, Charles
the Great, had invited a Bene-
dictine monk to his court to cast
a bell. This monk, Tancho, made a beautiful job of it. All were
delighted. All? Well, the official bell-founder of the Imperial Court
was jealous. He in his turn got permission—and a generous allow-
ance of copper and silver—from the Emperor to make another bell.
But, after purifying the copper he could not resist the temptation
to keep the silver. So he poured lead into the crucible instead of
silver. The new bell looked all right. But when the ringers tolled it
—it was almost dumb. Angrily the bell-founder snatched the bell-
rope from them, gave it a mighty tug. The iron clapper of the bell
came away, fell on the neck of the fraudulent man, cut him clean
in two.
rdiking of bells, when you want a smooth, mature
Whisky—ring for Bell’s, the good old whisky!
BEILS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Distilled and blended by
ARTHUR BELL & SONS LTD.
Distillers, of Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
AFOR£
CO -
fig
6V»
V:‘‘h;
CINZANO
ř
Sweet
or
Dry
r
ŕ
Fly British by 8.0.A.C.
from Australia-on any
of 1,000 Speed bird Routes
MM
corns mu
e mmtcHTS
-FLIES TO 165 CITIES AND
TOWNS IN 51 COUNTRIES
-with an all-pressurized Speedbird Fleet
8.0.A.C. really takes good care of
you—on Speedbird routes to almost
anyzvhere ! You can fly on one ticket
all the way. You can relax in deep-
seated comfort, enjoy complimentary
meals and meal-time drinks and
courteous friendly attention—on four-
engined Speedbird aircraft pressurized
for smooth above-the-weather flying.
No tips : no extras.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA
MALAYA • HONG KONG • JAPAN
CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
MIDDLE EAST • AFRICA • EUROPE
GREAT BRITAIN • U.S.A. • CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
• BERMUDA
A29/AU
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd ., (8.0.A.0,
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin
or from travel agents in all cities and towns .
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD./ TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
and-mouth Disease.
“J.J.L.”: British authorities
stand firmly for the policy of
killing all animals in a herd
where foot-and-mouth disease
appears. Though it cost the
U.K. Government £1,000,000 in
compensation from November
to May last, abandonment of
slaughter would involve the
greatest stock disaster since last
century’s cattle plague, said
Minister for Agriculture Thomas
Dugdale.
The alternative is vaccination,
used in Sweden, Denmark,
Holland, Germany and France.
Vaccine advocates claim that
treatment of affected cattle is
more logical, since few cases of
foot-and-mouth are fatal, any-
way. Compensation for
slaughter, on whatever scale,
does nothing about the time-
lag in rebuilding herds, they say,
nor does it prevent regular return
of the disease to Britain.
Each type of foot-and-mouth
virus—three major ones have
been identified to date—needs its
own vaccine ; treatment must be
delayed until the particular form
in each outbreak is known.
(Most of this season’s European
epidemic is Type A.) A master-
vaccine to cover all types is not
in sight.
Maintenance of continuous
immunity by vaccination would
involve veterinary staff costing
far more than the replacement
of slaughtered stock. Vets
emphasise that spread of the
infection is not checked until
vaccine immunity becomes effec-
tive—a matter of two weeks.
A vaccinated animal may
reach a stage when its resistance,
while sufficient to mask the
lesions of the disease, is not
adequate to prevent multiplica-
tion of the virus and its dis-
semination. Although showing
no visible symptoms, these cattle
would be a real danger to others.
Cattle, Sheep, Crops.
In Riverina, as the
result of the abundant season,
sheep-breeders are seeking cattle
to control the immense body of
pasture for sheep-grazing.
Graziers who have discovered
the value of combining sheep,
cattle and crops as the ideal
rotational balance for maintain-
ing soil-fertility, increasing pro-
duction, minimising stock
diseases and combating soil-
predict that the present
incentive and necessity for com-
bining cattle with sheep will lead
to permanent adoption of this
policy.
Colonel H. F. White, of Bald
Blair, believes the development to
be full of value. He says that
rotational-grazing of sheep and
cattle, combined with sown
pastures and crops, would
prevent grazing pastures degen-
erating to rubbish, and would
provide greater production, with
healthier stock, besides conserv-
ing soil-fertility.
T.B. in Dairy Cows.
“Protein”: Australia has a
too-high incidence of t.b. in
dairy cattle, and there is plenty
of evidence that it is largely due
to ignorance or neglect of the
feed requirements of milking-
cows.
For instance, how many dairy-
farmers know how much protein,
minerals and vitamins are
required daily by the milking-
cow for milk-production, in
addition to her needs for main-
tenance of body-weight and well-
being? And how many know
the proportions of these in-
gredients in the feed their cows
get?
On the one-time rich red
volcanic soil of the N.S.W. North
Coast paspalum-grass, with little
"They're holding a bit of a Liquor Inquiry of their own.”
or no clover associated with it, is
practically the only feed on
many farms throughout the year.
As well as a falling-off during
winter, there is the coarse, un-
palatable growth of low nutritive
value which paspalum makes in
summer and early autumn, when
the stock grazing on it can’t keep
it from going to seed.
When bulk supplementary
feed is given to dairy cows in
that area (comparatively few
feed-crops are grown there) it
is largely green maize, sorghum
or cow-cane, all of which are
largely carbohydrate feeds low
in protein content. Now milk is
a product of high protein
content, and milking-cows are
unable to obtain sufficient
protein from these feeds to
maintain both milk-production
and body - weight. Nature
ordains that milk-production
shall be maintained as much as
possible, and the milking-cow
therefore draws on her body-
weight for the protein which is
deficient in the feed.
Nothing could be more calcu-
lated to make such cows open
to infection with t.b., which is
essentially a disease of inade-
quate nutrition. Lack of suf-
ficient protein over a lengthy
period could be sufficient in
itself.
In addition to protein there
are the essential minerals, like
calcium and phosphates, and the
important vitamins. All are con-
tained in milk, and unless the
cow gets enough of them in her
feed her physical strength goes
down.
It is obvious enough that much
of the t.b. in dairy herds is trace-
able to poor feeding, and the
remedy is just as obvious —feed
the cows properly.
Shorthorns Do Well.
“Frank H.”: Shorthorns from
the N.S.W. herds of Edinglassie,
Tucka Tucka, Doonkami,
Coombing Park, Kibah and
Bibbenluke did well at the fat-
stock and carcass show in
Sydney, with teams of com-
mercial steers fattened on
pastures under a wide variation
of climatic and grazing con-
ditions.
A team from Coombing Park
won the class for best pen of
nine steers open to all breeds.
Two-year-olds, they weighed
12471 b. on the hoof and sold for
£65 a head.
On the hook, pens of three
steers from Doonkami and
Gillendoon filled all three places
for carcasses of any breed or
cross, while a Doonkami cross-
bred steer (Shorthorn bull and
dairy cow) produced the best
single carcass and sold for £54.
Ability of the Shorthorn to
increase weight with early
maturity through hybrid vigor
by crossbreeding was illustrated
by the first- and second-prize-
winning carcasses in the cross-
bred class, the winner being a.
Hereford - Shorthorn from
Donnelly Bros., Tenterfield, and
the runner-up a Shorthorn-
Angus from Edinglassie.
Tree Seeds.
“Breck”: Seed - capsules of
eucalypts should be collected
when they are a good, rich
brown. Gather in sprays, place
in a deep box and leave in a
sheltered, sunny spot for the cap-
sules to open. If a fair percent-
age of the seed is dark brown or
black, the tree-crop will be satis-
factory. Treat seednuts of brush-
box and turpentine-tree in the
same way. Good seed of these
species is golden brown.
Leave pods of wattles till they
are turning yellow ; those of the
kurrajong, Illawarra flame-tree,
jacaranda and lace-bark tree
should be harvested while brown
and leathery.
Cones of pines should be well
developed. Seed from the base
to half-way up the cone is the
most fertile. See that the cones
of native and imported cypresses
are dry but not cracked. Seed-
nuts of tea-tree and bottlebrush
tribes are not ripe till two years
old ; older nuts are even better.
If these nuts are cut adhering to
the long stems on which they
grow, placed in paper bags and
kept in a dry place for a month
or so, the seed will fall out
naturally.
Carob-beans are ripe when
brown to black. Lilly-pilly or
brush-cherries must be well
plumped out before you pick
them. To dry: place in the wind
or sun till the pulp shrivels hard,
or leave in water for three days,
then rub the pulp off the hard
seed and spread on trays to let
moisture evaporate.
Pittosporum pods are ripe
when a deep orange color. Ex-
tract the seed when the pod
opens and rub through light,
non-salty sand to remove the
sticky covering. Collect berries
of privets when black, those of
cotoneasters and cretegus when
full size. These species must be
dried in the open.
To protect tree-seed against


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
ŗ
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
fin
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The simple instruction card supplied
makes it possible for any handyman
to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.; Hygeia Uissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St.. Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.). Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia DissoL
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
HE HAS A
w
m
. . . BUT JIT.
WEARS A
NEO-
IBABRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAEKEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2w), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
NEW HOMES
AND RENOVATIONS
EXTENSIONS ALTERATIONS
PAINTING AND DECORATION
modernisation of homes
IMMEDIATE SERVICE
COUNTRY WORK A SPECIALTY
W. K. HANCOCK, Master Builder,
284 Whitehorse Rd., Balwyn, Vic-
toria. WF 4551. After hrs. XB 6524
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
y DhjL-'@cdt-(M*
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR contains a guaranteed minimum
of 65 per cent, tricalcic phosphate, 30 per cent, phosphoric
acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 3583, Sydney.
G.P.0., Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.0., Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.0., Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.0., Box 588, Perth.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORSI
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J- VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
WXUIVfW/SW*** l/0 "tU/t/g
m
AIDING AUSTRALIA'S ADVANCE
No. 3 of a Series
m
m
Marrickville, N.S.JT., one of several Davies Coop factories throughout Australia.
Powered by
for uninterrupted production
ř
Essential to Australia’s development, vital to Australia’s Defence require-
ments are the products of Davies Coop Cotton Spinners, Weavers,
Bleachers, Dyers, and manufacturers of Tyre Cord, Canvas and Underwear.
To the problem of continuous output, despite power restrictions,
BOEAUST has contributed the
skill and experience of Fetter
engineers, famous throughout the
world for Diesel engine design and
installation. BOEAUST can solve
your power problem with efficient
low-cost diesels.
r
Now in operation at Davies Coop
(N.S.W .) Pty. Ltd., Sydney two
FETTER type “SSa,” 400 b.h.p., and two
type “SS6,” 600 b.h.p. Superscavenge
diesel engines, all operating at 600 r.p.m.,
direct-coupled to Brush Alternators.
BOEAUST is
part of the
Associated
British Oil
Engines Group
. . . now pro-
ducing the
largest number
of industrial
diesel engines
in the world.
(NATIONAL
mm
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence Street, Sydney —• 368 Collins Street, Melbourne
Distributors in all States.
woes place a piece of paradi-
chlorbenzene, the size of a
marble in the bottom of the jar.
On the average most species
of tree-seed remain fertile for
two years Eucalypt-seed is in
A-grade class up to three years,
Most wattleseed germinates well
when three to four years old ;
some seeds of this family spin
out the fertility span to 50 years.
Tropical areas excepted, sowing
of tree-seed should be delayed
till early spring.
Dealing in Cane-farms.
“Ibeka”: Speculation in cane-
farm lands is no more rife today
than it ever was (B. 21 / 5/’52).
Though prices have advanced to
very high figures the prices of
established farms are lower than
the cost of bringing new ones
under crop and providing com-
parable amenities. Furthermore,
the Central Cane Prices Board
is specifically charged with vet-
ting all cane-farm sales in
Queensland, a form of control
not suffered by any other in-
dustry.
If an efficient farmer makes a
handsome profit from the sale
of a previously mismanaged
farm, what’s wrong with that?
If the buyer is as efficient as the
seller he also should be able to
grow good crops. By inference,
“W;C.Q.” condemns the use of
sulphate of ammonia. There are
very few Queensland cane-farms
on which the use of nitrogen is
not an essential and highly profit-
able farm practice, especially on
ratoon crops. The “dark-green
tint” mentioned in the par. is a
certain indication that the crop
was responding to the nitro-
genous dressing.
There are three types of farms
the newchum should leave
alone —the hilly; the lowlying
without ready access to water-
courses for drainage purposes ;
and that with a sandy or gravelly
subsoil. Apart from these there
are few bad farms but plenty of
bad farmers. Anyone buying a
cane-farm in an unfamiliar dis-
trict cannot do better than have
a yarn with the cane-inspector
of the mill which the farm sup-
plies. This officer will be able to
supply figures of past produc-
tion, and as a rule has a pretty
good idea of the weaknesses of a
particular farm and its poten-
tialities.
Care of Dogs.
“Farmer Bill”: Every dog’s
menu should include big raw
beef-bones and dry biscuits.
Gnawing this type of fodder
helps indigestion and forestalls
tartar collecting on the teeth.
Cut out rabbit and poultry
bones: they can pierce the in-
testines and cause death.
Cooked vegetables, omitting
potatoes and turnips, are now
recommended by vets. To get
the dog fond of them, mix them
with a little gravy at the start.
A dog needs fresh, clean
water. Addition of a small pinch
of Epsom-salts to a large bowl of
water one day and the same
quantity of medicinal magnesia
the next day keeps the blood
pure, the coat glossy and pre-
vents skin troubles.
All dogs need a rug and warm
kennel or corner of a shed in
winter. Left exposed to the cold,
they suffer in health and become
bad - tempered. Rheumatism,
pneumonia or deafness may re-
sult. Pups suffer even more, lose
heart and are easy marks for an
early demise.
Hints for the Farm.
“Wilco”: Small areas may be
cleared of nut-grass by stirring
the surface soil and turning pigs
in to eat the nuts. Nut-grass can
be killed if the ground is raked
to half-expose the nuts and
fresh, hot horse-manure is
spread thickly over the spot.
“W.C.Q.”: In certain parts of
the north nut-grass lias appeared
on cane-farms after the land has
been manured with filter-press
mud. It is believed that the seed
of the nutgrass comes to the mills
in soil clinging to the roots of
harvested cane and then leaves
again mixed with the mud from
the filters.
“Sarina”: Bougainvillea-vines
should not be planted near paths
because of the danger from
thorns ; they remain dangerous
after fallen twigs have almost
rotted away. The wildest grower
of the tribe is the purple-
flowered variety Magnified
trailli, which will develop a
trunk like a tree and crush
down and flatten any outhouse
against which it is planted.
“M.”: Cause of slime on
many Victorian irrigated pas-
tures, several species of algas
can be controlled by using blue-
stone, 51b. per acre-foot of water.
This will kill the algae but won’t
damage the pastures. Victorian
Department of Agriculture
would like to know of any in-
stances where slime has accumu-
lated on paddocks in quantity
sufficient to hold up the flow of
irrigation water.
“Sundowner”: To keep wax-
moth from honey-combs place
one tablespoonful of calcium-
cyanide under each stack of
supers. See that the supers are
well away from where honey is
being handled.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The season seems to be following the normal Bruckner
cycle, with the usual sunspot effects. This repeats the
season of 1916, in which'the winter rains began with light
to moderate showers about June 9, with heavier rains
about the middle of the month and later. Then came
frosts, then more showers leading to a very good season.
However, I have repeatedly shown this repeat is not allowed
by nature to be so obvious that anyone can see it without
the necessary knowledge. The sunspots come in and toss
the components about till sometimes one cannot read the
riddle until told the obvious answer. Such a distortion
came last month, when a sudden strong sunspot change
gave rains, very heavy in places, and may have produced
some of the later rains. The season seems so promising
that it can stand some dryness.


MORE PEOPLE CHOOSE HOLDEN
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE
BECAUSE THEY GET...
.P.G*
SPARKLING 6 CYLINDER PERFORMANCE
'
5 . 6 PASSENGER COMFORT
DEPENDABILITY
LOW UPKEEP
COSTS
STYLISH GOOD LOOKS
A CAR BUILT FOR AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
Over 50,000 Holdens are now in service ail over
Australia. Official registration figures for 1951
confirm the opinion expressed in hundreds of
letters from enthusiastic owners, that Holden is
today’s best car buy.
asow
i&..
■
5029
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Qar — Australia’s first choice.
There are two Air Chief Radios
designed for Holden.
★ Convenient Hire Purchase terms are available
through G.M.A.C.—General Motors’ own finance
company.
GENERAL M OTORS-H OLDE N’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH.
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australlu.
Missing Friend.
TO JOHN EMIL HALLOP formerly of
99 Hoddle Street Collingwood but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
WINIFRED FLORENCE HALLOP of 406
Montague Street Albert Park Victoria
Married Woman has instituted proceedings
against you for Divorce on the ground
of desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the Twenty-fifth day of July 1952 and
file an answer to the Petition on or before
the Eighth day of August 1952 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs. —D. 0. MORONEY,
LL.B., of 220 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO RITA ESMA RUSSELL late of Nam-
bour Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that
FREDERICK CHARLES RUSSELL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1992 of
1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Twenty-eighth day of August 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from F. E. FISCHER, Solicitor,
of 2nd Floor, Room 6, Twyford House,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce,
TO WILLIAM JOHN CORLISS late of
No. 46 Richmond Street Casino. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET CORLISS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1936 of
1952 on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
18th August 1952 and a copy of the Peti-
tion may be obtained free of charge from
MESSRS. COPE NORTON & SEDGWICK,
Solicitors, Barker Street, Casino. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“For sale, pram, English pedigree,
original leather, immaculate condi-
tion.” — Suburban paper.
Only thoroughbred infants
need apply.
4* 4* 4*
‘lt is astonishing the way women
stand by their husbands,’ says a
judge.”
Especially in bus queues.
4* 4* 4*
“Long engagements are not recom-
mended.” — Women’s magazine.
Numbers ring off.
4*. 4* 4*
“Never deliberately tell a man about
your other beaux.”
—Advice in women’s paper.
Wait until you have been
found out with them.
4* 4* 4*
‘Every able person, man or woman,
who can spar time for it can do this
useful service for the sick.” /
—Church paper.
Helping them to fight their
way back to health.
4* 4* 4*
“A woman married to a matinee
idol has a lot of worrying to do about
him.”— “World’s News.”
There are bound to be some
lively scenes.
“Being dead is like being drunk,
says an 82-year-old man who ‘died’
and was revived by the drug
adrenalin.”— Melbourne “Argus.”
In either case one needs a
reviver,
4*
“Well, Shakspeare had his tech-
nique and I have mine.”' ■
—Actress Mae West.
And she could show him a
thing or two.
4* 4* 4*
“The story in Moscow is that some-
one broke into the Kremlin and stole
the results of the next election.”
—Columnist Earl Wilson.
Such tactics might be forgiven
if Communism would take the
count.
“Tlike to go to your beaches. In
this country your beach-girls are very
well done.”— Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
No ; just half-baked.
4* 4* 4*
“Tests made with a penny rolled
under a bed show that money will
go as far today as it ever did.”
—Author H. V. Wade.
And it’s awful to think that
you have to crawl to get it.
4* 4* 4*
“Photographs from a high-speed
camera brought about conviction of
five motorists.” — Country paper.
The evidence was a complete
exposure. \
‘The car was loaded to the Plimsoll
hne with gifts of soft-drinks for the
boys of the home.” — Church paper.
Naturally the lads soon sailed
in and sank them.
|( 4* 4*
“The new ballerina fully-flared
skirts are excellent for constant wear
because they will not seat at all.”
— Women’s magazine.
They just remain standing.
“Blast these eclipses—me clock's stopped."
TyPing.
Qwert yuiop, asdfg hfkl nm
Sing from under my fingers like
a hymn ;
Now - is - the - lime-for-all-good-
men-to-come,
-Reiterated endlessly, I strum.
Tightly, ripely, so the keys aver.
And with their black decisions I
concur.
And, if it likes to spell “pecluiar”
thus.
Why ! Who and what am I to
make a fuss ?
For, while from Q to G my
fingers jog \ ■ ■
The - quick - brown - fox -jumps-
over-the-lazy-dog.
AH ME.
Misleading Lady.
I love you, sweet, with passion
• deep and tender.
For you life’s ups and downs
I try to soften.
To most of your caprices I
surrender ;
In fact, I play your prompter,
dear, too often:
And yet you say I’m cross and
always cursing ;
You wonder why we’re
generally fighting.
Well, can’t you take your scripts
and your rehearsing
Out to the laundry, darling,
when I’m writing ?
P. O. M. C
A Little Experiment.
I was standing looking in the
window of the petshop, enjoying
the comical expressions of the
pups as they stood on their hind-
legs with their noses against the
glass, walked nonchalantly across
each other’s faces or took a
playful side-swipe at a passing
tail, when the proprietor came
to the door.
Immediately he opened up I
could see he was one of those
cocksure, high-pressure salesmen
whose methods I find extremely
irritating. He began by stressing
the need for \a dog about the
place with all these burglaries
going on. One would also be a
. companion for the children and
a protector for the wife while I
was away. The outlay was a
bagatelle which I would get back
many times in c faithful service
and unbounded affection, etc.,
etc.
p. Now, I am a dog-lover. I
: already had two dogs at home,
and I certainly had no intention
of getting another. But his
manner so exasperated me that I
decided to take him down a peg
or two. I would blow up the
balloon of his sales hopes and
then suddenly deflate it —and
him. So I strolled into the shop,
“Have you a macaw?” I
asked.
He looked surprised. Appar-
ently he thought I wanted a pup,
for he was just about to open
the door of the window.
“I have only one left. You’re
lucky,” he said. “He’s a great
talker.”
“How could he be else, in this
shop?” I asked tersely.
He went and brought the
gaudy bird. Immediately I saw
it I shook my head,
“But it’s a wonderful speci-
men!” he began. “These birds
never get anything wrong w h
them”
“That,” I cut in, “is a some-
what rash statement. “They are
subject to acute pericarditis in
the moulting season if their feet
are not kept warm, and they get
ingrowing pin - feathers and
clergyman’s throat. Anyway,
this one reminds me too much
of my wife’s aunt. What about
a ferret?”
He gave me a queer look. “A
ferret!” he echoed. “You mean
to keep as a pet?
“Why not?” I returned. “I
believe they have very lovable
natures and have the cleanest of
habits. I have a friend who has
one —it sleeps in a cushion on
the lounge, and his wife always
takes it in the car when she goes
shopping.”
He trotted one out. Again I
shook my head, “It badly needs
treating with derris-dust,” I said.
“Look at its fur! It has the
roop.”
“It’s fowls that get the roop,”
he replied, and I was delighted
to detect the first touch of bitter-
ness in his voice.
“Also ferrets,” I maintained
firmly. ; “I ought to know. My
daughter goes out with a chap
whose grandfather used to be a
rabbit-trapper. No, I wouldn’t
have that. There’s a breed of
dog I’m trying to think of . . .
let me see” —here I began snap-
ping my fingers as if helping in
memory-search—“it’s rather a
big dog, stiff ginger hair, squarish
head, spindly tail.”
I could see a more hopeful
, gleam come into his eye as I
mentioned dogs. “I have somfc
big dogs out the back,” he said
eagerly. “I think I know the
very one you’re thinking of.” In
half a minute he was back with
an Irish terrier.
“Great watchdogs, these” —
he began his high-pressure sales-
talk again—“you need never fear
that any burglar will trouble you
with him around. He’s the type
that lets anyone in the gate but
won’t let him out.”
“Utterly useless,” I replied
sharply, “I’d never be able to
get out the gate to go to work.
Besides, I want one that will let
people out but won’t let them
in. Anyway, that’s not the breed
I was thinking of. It’s on the tip
of my tongue-—I have an idea it
ends with an ‘on’.”
His face brightened at that.
He hoisted Irish out and was
back with an Alsatian.
“This will be the one you
want,” he said confidently.
“Powerful, but as gentle as a
lamb. Excellent for guarding
children and”
“I don’t think he’d be suit-
able,” I cut in, frowning. “The
type I had in mind is a
vegetarian. Meat’s far too dear
these days to keep a large
carnivore.” I suddenly snapped
my fingers and looked up
triumphantly. “I have it!” I
burst out. “It’s a Percheron I
was thinking of.”
He looked me straight in the
eye, went out the back and
returned with a big overgrown
pup with paws on him like a
lion and a benevolent expression.
It looked like a cross between a
beefhound and a Berkshire.
“This is a Percheron,” he said
blandly. - : ' ' '
“A Percheron’s . a horse,” I
said. ; ’
“Also a breed of dog,” he
gritted, without batting an eyelid.
Just then the big pup leaped
; around me joyously, put his
paws on my chest and slapped
about a foot of tongue over my
ear and gazed at me with a
dopy, fond, happy look. I have
always been immediately
attracted to a dog like that.
“Now, Pete, come here,” the
shopman said.
I knew I was sunk when he
said that. I’ve always wanted a
big, slobbery, ugly, cheerful dog
named Pete. I pulled his ears
till he howled. The instant I
stopped he looked up at me
affectionately and grinned
happily. That settled it.
Agapanthus has cut down my
allowance for cigarettes and beer
to pay for his meat —Pete gets
through two pounds of steak a
day.
I’m not so damned clever as I
thought I was.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Loss of Recruits
A few of us, representing several ranks
and regiments of the C.M.F., have made
an unofficial poll of militia units in the
Sydney area in an effort to discover the
main reasons for the reported loss of
trained soldiers.
The survey was confined to infantry
regiments, both because they are the very
backbone of the C.M.F. as a fighting
force, and because preliminary inquiries
indicated that it was there the “turn-
over” was greatest. Artillery regiments
seem to lose only about half as many
men, and technical, units probably half
that.
The greatest loss seems to be of men
who fail to re-enlist after the expiration
of their initial two years’ engagement;
and most of them said simply that they
were no longer prepared to devote to the
militia the time that it demanded.
Almost every regiment holds parades
one night a week, has fairly frequent
weekend bivouacs and a fortnight’s con-
tinuous camp-training every year. Pro-
motion classes are usually held on one
other night of the week, and those seeking
promotion are expected to attend all
these parades regularly. Many said they
weren’t going to give up so much time
from their other activities ; and that was
that
With National Service draftees, of
course, that trouble does not exist. Even
after completing their three months
camp-training, they are still compelled
to attend parades of their C.M.F. unit;
and can be heavily fined if they don’t,
though some regiments treat occasional
absences leniently in order to avoid
antagonism.
Several of the time-expired men said
they might have remained in the Army
had the training been more interesting.
Too many of the night parades, they
claimed, were spent “square-bashing and
listening to people talking,” That, we
thought, reflected the Army’s chronic lack
of good instructors. Despite the con-
stant efforts of the School of Infantry
and “Austrait,” the standard of C.M.F.
instructors remains fairly low.
Some instructors deliberately turn their
backs on the new and improved methods
of teaching. “Forget that stuff,” one
R.S.M. told his sergeants after an “Aust-
mit” demonstration. “You’ve got to
shout at them.” Volunteer troops today
don’t like being shouted at.
A very frequent complaint was aimed
at the low standard of camp accommoda-
tion and catering. Some of the camp
areas—Hoidsworthy, for one—are being
remodelled, but so far these have been
reserved for National Service trainees.
Most of the Army’s skilled cooks and
caterers have also been diverted to the
conscript battalions, and the C.M.F.
fares badly with what is left.
Others complained of the policy that
has led many infantry regiments, over
the last nine months or so, to make con-
siderable efforts to raise the standard of
drill and formal soldiering. Some units
(in N.S.W., the 30th Battalion) have
always maintained this at a high standard,
but in most of the others it is new. Aus-
tralians have never taken kindly to
square-bashing, and the men who have
spent two years in the militia often feel
that they have graduated beyond it. At
any rate, the new policy has yet to
achieve its stated object of raising esprit
de corps.
Those seemed to be the major griev-
ances. There were a number of minor
irritants—slow promotion in some units,
suppression of the wet canteens unoffici-
ally conducted by many regiments, the
new uniforms, etc. —-but most were
peculiar to individual units.
Our survey was on a small scale, but
it was representative and does indicate
the more important causes of the militia’s
loss of men. “We find the men,” the
Director-General of Recruiting said
recently. “It’s up to the regiments to
keep them.”— Ronald Lloyd (N.S.W.).
Uranium on Freehold Land
A basic principle in the legal
code of any democracy states that a
freehold title to land is indefeasible. To
upset this in any way would create chaos;
m
“Hey! Where you going with my paint?”
it would also be both dishonest and dis-
honorable on. the part of a Government.
During the last eight years uranium
has become the most precious of all the
elements. Away from defence aspects,
its potentialities for the generation of
power for industrial use are enormous ;
and Australia is fortunate in possessing
considerable deposits of uranium-bearing
ores. In view of their outstanding
strategic importance, all such ores have
been declared the property of the Crown.
The richest deposit of uranium dis-
covered to date is at Rum Jungle, in the
N.T. Many years ago, to encourage
settlement in the Territory, areas of land
there were sold, with freehold titles. The
Rum Jungle ore-body lies on freehold
land, and the title-deeds to it are held
by an Adelaide man.
It is hard to understand why the
Federal Government should regard this
as a grave problem. Precedents for an
equitable solution are not hard to find.
In America a similar problem was met
and overcome in the matter of oil lands.
It was unthinkable that underground
lakes of oil should lie untapped; equally
unthinkable that owners of freehold land
should not reap some benefit from the
wealth which lay beneath their proper-
ties. The problem was solved by making
it incumbent on the owners of oil-wells
to pay a royalty to the owners of the
land on which the wells were drilled.
Even when oil was struck on Indian reser-
vations the same principle held good, with
the result that some tribes received huge
incomes from royalties.
The Commonwealth Government, as
the owner of all uranium ore by Act of
Parliament, is entitled to carry out mining
operations on the Rum Jungle property.
The man who holds the title-deeds to
the land has not the slightest objection
to it. All he asks is that an equitable
royalty be paid to him on the ore mined
there.
If the Commonwealth Government will
do so, then it will not only be dealing
fairly with the landowner ; the basic prin-
ciple of a freehold title being indefeasible
will not be violated in any way.—H. A. L.
(S.A.).
Ameroo
I chose the wood for its superb mark-
ings. The timber-workers at the mill
threw it to one side because it was not
classed “clear” ; a builder would probably
have covered it with paint, or it might
have been tossed to the furnace to raise
more steam for the sawmill. I picked it
for its beauty—its many curves showed
its fight against storm, drought and,
possibly, fires, and the magnificent swirl
of its knots showed where its branches
had lifted towards the sky.
I made it into a table, keeping to a
simple design of clean straight lines
because I doubted if any man-made curves
could match the sweeping harmony of the
natural patterns in the grain. It is said
to be a “difficult” wood, but I had no
trouble. I worked on it with simple tools,
a saw and scraper, and polished it
patiently with natural oils. I added a
touch of aboriginal motifs, painted in
Australian earth colors, dug and ground
to dust and protected with grass-tree gum.
The earth-colors blended perfectly with
the natural colors of the wood.
It’s finished now and I’m justifiably
proud, not of the fact that I made it, but
of the simple, natural beauty of an Aus-
tralian timber. Further, its natural
surface, protected only by oil, will stand
up to wear, heat and liquids that no
French-polished veneer can hope to
endure.
I call it ameroo, the aboriginal name
for beautiful wood. Its common name is
cypress. The thing I marvel at most is
that it isn’t more generally used to
decorate Australian homes instead of
being mainly belted on as flooring and
weatherboards. Byram Mansell
(N.S.W.).
“Speed and the Death Toll”
Car-manufacturers seem bent on making
their products speedier and speedier—
sales-talk is “she’ll do a hundred on the
open road.” What open road? In Vic-
toria there is not a road for speed above
60 miles per hour, and even if there were,
what potential killers" those speedy
motorists must be?
The official figures from the National
Safety Council for the six months ending
September 30, 1951, are:
Children (under 17 years)—
Killed 24
Injured ••
Adults—
Killed 306
Injured .. 5441
That is, a total of 330 killed in six months
on Victorian roads, and 6373 injured.
Excessive speed killed 52 and injured
536. Most of the fatalities occurred on
country roads; deaths in the city, by com-
parison, were relatively few.
Cars have reached a stage where
their acceleration-rate is quicker than the
reaction of the drivers. Strangely, really
drunken drivers cause few accidents, be-
cause most people give them a wide
berth; it is the man who has just had a
few and is filled with Dutch courage who
is the speedster and the killer.
The mobile traffic police are on the
alert and are doing their best, but they
cannot be everywhere at once. It is up
to manufacturers to reduce the power of
the engines.— Fradelle (Vic.).
Calculating Income Tax
The Menzies Government deserves
credit for simplifying income-tax returns
and assessments; not only can the tax-
payer on wages or salary easily calculate
his own tax, but he is actually invited
to do so on his Form “S.”
No doubt the calculations when income
is derived from other sources —business,
property, farming, etc. —are equally
simple if you know how, but there are
thousands of taxpayers to whom figures
are a mystery unless explained in the
simplest terms.
Exactly how, for instance, does the
farmer arrive at his tax liability when Iris
income exceeds £4OOO while his five-year
average is below that figure? Account-
ancy and business publications run
articles explaining the more knotty points
in plain English and illustrated by simple
examples, but not everyone has access
to such material.
The Taxation Department itself should
give this service to the public by produc-
ing an explanatory pamphlet, compiled
not by a departmental official using
departmental jargon, but by someone
accustomed to demonstrating mathe-
matical problems to simple minds.
—Hist (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 178
Across.
I—Crazy1—Crazy swine concerning colorings.
(9)
s—Headgear that ensures the upper-
most ease. (5)
B—Do 1 weary and depress an
Edward when mitigated? (9)
11— Lindwall has no change of cloth.
12 — Disorderly run of a vessel. (3)
13— Short stream in Switzerland, but
such a king must move or take
cover. (2, 5)
15—Goddess is doubled. (4)
18— Miss Reeve and tiny creatures
among the nudists. (8) .
19— Wine inscription on Miss Francis s
present? (5)
22 Direct the beef. (5)
23 Thanks to a washer and a
Spanish battlefield. (8)
26 — Help an opera. (4)
27 — Sunbather is touching. (7)
28 — Hoot at the number to be rung
by some complaining telephone
subscribers. (3)
29 Network fabric. (5)
31 —Pop friend with a howler and a
pontifical edict fought by a
Vatican matador. C 5. 4)
34 — Hen stratum. (5)
35 — From one who beats a gamboller.
(9)
Down.
1— Coxcomb urges a wayward bird
to pay him a visit. (8)
2 Did flirt vex a terrible fellow,
Edward? (11)
3 High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
4 Consumed the factor that drives
men to tragic ruin. (3)
5 Seabird mislays the rent. (4)
6 Conversation upset salary. (3)
7 Hemingway of Eagle Street. (6)
9 —The married with muscles. (6)
10—Ellington peer. (4)
14—The firm I nourished is dressed
like a nun. (6)
16— The theatre went on strike? (5-6)
17 — Thus tie up comfort. (6)
20 — Herb, strong-scented, and a
malicious Japanese gossip. (6)
21 — Warbler makes a century on a
big ocean wave. (8)
24 — Crayon alters staple pleats among
the palest, (6)
25 Halt saucepans on the way up.
(4)
28 —Carry a porridge fancier. (4)
30 —Rested work of the last minstrel.
(3)
32 Dry tune. (3)
33 Rumanian money garland in
Hawaii. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 177


Wkett uoa toftitt a yood Mdt
make Mi/ie tit© mMxd b
*
m
mm
&
'"tu
iipiii i
llpilli iiMit i
li
■ ' r "ft - : ;<■ , : -
x '; v $ *' > *Vh / ,II **• l
;
;, .•■;•.
.
•
•* ’ ; '
Li T^H |v,*
.
■
.
v..
■
m
;| : ;;r
,V
>
m
m
:
■; >-<■
II
■ :
i -/: ■ xti f MJt'J
"¥■' ;
-■■■
v ■ :-x >
X I& S
.
x.,-:.'..
nftUJ 5
Va
//^
, V , *“l'
4fJ5
TRADE MARK OF
Quality
For 44 years ‘'‘‘Crusader’”’ has been
weaving cloth that competes with the best
made anywhere in the World.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece Wool, her prize winning
Worsted Cloths have easily become the standard of
Quality throughout our land.
You are cordially invited to inspect the new 1952-53 Range
of Crusader Suitings which are now available. Ask your
favourite Tailor to show you his attractive Crusader Pattern
Book. Every Cloth is fully guaranteed never to fade or
shrink. Your Tailor will tell you Crusader Worsteds tailor
well for they are the product of a Mill that is proud of its
Cloths.
So when you want a good suit—-a suit you will want to wear,
because you look your best in it, make sure your material
is “Crusader”-—the Cloth that has behind it 44 years of
service and satisfaction.
Crusader Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
N*.
