

,
fCO t
3Hi jo xonaoad v
r--
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
.M • * *.
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4
The Bulletin
•The Bulletin,” VoL 73— No. 3782
Wednesday, August 6, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
AFTER TEMPEST AND TURMOIL BAMBURGH CASTLE STILL BRAVELY STANDS
STANDING securely on its high massive rock south of Berwick-upon-Tweed,
and dominating the coast of Northumberland, is Bamburgh Castle. For
many centuries this great fortress has withstood the ravages of time, of wars
and of the elements, and today it still gives an impression of enduring strength.
It is a natural stronghold, for early documents record the fact that it was
surrounded originally by water, and ships could sail around it. During the
passing centuries, however, the sea receded, and it now stands like a solitary
sentinel on the shore, surrounded by high sand dunes. The village clustered
around the base of the castle was originally a Royal city, for it was chosen
as capital by successive kings of Northumberland.
From earliest times Bamburgh was the centre of military activity by
opposing British or Pictish armies, but despite this the Castle was favoured
by thirty-four successive Anglo-Saxon kings as a royal residence. Bamburgh
remained the capital of Northumberland for nearly a hundred years, and was
frequently besieged, but it remained unconquered by Danes or Scots, although
the surrounding countryside was devastated. In the eleventh century, after
the terrible harrying of the north by William the Conqueror, Bamburgh was
ì


Learn
bS
EMiLiJwiaj
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
— CUT HERE AND MAIL -
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age
The Finest Family Saga in Years
THE HAYBURN FAMILY
By GUY McORONB.
A Charming Sequel to “WAX FRUIT.”
PRICE 15/6 (Postage 7d.)
Meet once again the familiar characters you knew so well in the popular Scottish trilogy
“WAX FRUIT.”
There is Aunt Bel, Henry Haybum, Phoebe, David, Moorhouse, Uncle Stephen, Lucy, as well
as other new characters of the later generation whom you will equally come to love.
Be sure and follow the family gatherings in “THE HAYBURN FAMILY.”
“WAX FRUIT,*' a Steady Seller for Years. Price 15/- (Postage 9d.)
Obtainable at all Bookseller e-
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. Phono 8L3611.
The Red Page
BOSWELL IN HOLLAND.
The second volume of the Boswell
literary remains, Boswell in Holland,
1763-1764 (Heinemann; Angus and
Robertson), is not quite so satisfactory as
his London Journal, as the original
Holland journal was lost, and the account
of his sojourn there has been compiled
from letters between Boswell and his
friends, and from the daily notes jotted-
down by Boswell to be written-up later
in his journal.
Still, it goes without saying that any-
thing vyritten by Boswell is always enter-
taining ; the amazing vitality of his
contact with life lights up even his most
casual jottings, and these give us a very
clear picture of the Holland episode, the
personalities he met there, the course of
his studies and his amorous complexities.
These daily notes are exceptionally
interesting in the study of Boswell as an
artist, in that they demonstrate that his
journals were no mere factual record of
the day’s events but a serious literary
exercise in which he was as much con-
cerned for form, style and subject-matter
as any other writer engaged in an act of
creation: in Boswell’s the creation
of a life-size portrait of himself. Though
it was his special metier to detect the
psychological make-up of anybody who
interested him, he knew very well he had
a better subject in himself than in any
other contemporary, and certainly he
exercised his detective faculties on himselr
with ruthless astuteness.
His daily notes make this major objec-
tive clear by the curious form in which
they are written. They are addressed by
Boswell to himself, as the detached on-
looker at his own behavior. His manner
to himself is that of an urbane elder
reviewing the conduct of a somewhat
feckless junior, prepared to tolerate his
various lapses from a dignified code of
behavior but not to* mitigate opinion on
them. And this device of observing him-
self from withojut undoubtedly had a lot
to do with the integrity with which he
presents himself in the first-person-
singular, It allowed him to see himself
with a clarity which a direct narrative of
affairs might have overlooked.
On arriving in Holland he had laid
down a series of rules for the course of
his studies, the regulation of his daily
life and his deportment in all social
contacts. By obeying these ordinances
he was to constitute himself a worthy and
accomplished gentleman:
Resolve now to study in earnest. Con-
sider yourself not so much a student as a
traveller. Be a liberal student. Learn to be
reserved. Keep your melancholy to your-
self. Be reserved and calm and sustain a
consistent character... .So when you return
to Auchinleck you will have dignity.
Any man who lays down a rigid course
of conduct for himself makes it inevitable
that he will be constantly lapsing from
it, and Boswell bestows praise and blame
on himself freely for his vacillations;
Yesterday you was still too jocular and
talked of yourself, particularly of your
whoring, which was shameful. However,
you continue your plan of study and make
no great deviations. Try firmly this week
never once to speak of yourself
Yesterday was an excellent day.
Remember it with satisfaction. You did all
your business well and with satisfaction.
You talked freely to Brown and bid him
be a monitor and warn you of deviations.
Pray persevere. Never forget your plan a
moment
Yesterday was an irregular day. You
passed three hours at Brown’s with Miss
de Zuylen. You was too much off-guard
?nd gave way to instantaneous fancy. You
was a little light-headed....
Yesterday you did well. You went at
six to the Grand Bailiff’s. You played party
with the prince and Miss de Zuylen. You
was shocked, or rather offended, at her
unlimited vivacity. After it you spoke a
little too much. But you was decent, and
better than you imagine....
Yesterday you did as well as you could
wish. Upon my word you are a fine
fellow. Bravo! Go on
If Boswell occasionally went off-guard
in public he was very much on-guard
when scrutinising his behavior in private.
The word retenue recurs constantly in
these jottings, as the key-word to restrain
indiscreet behavior. But reserve in social
contacts was impossible to Boswell. Also,
it would have been fatal to his metier.
By giving himself freely to others he
threw them off-guard and induced them
to give themselves freely in return.
But that Boswell was regarded by his
contemporaries as the witless buffoon
pictured by Macaulay is refuted here by
letters written to him by his friends —
and these range from a sophisticated man-
of-the-world like Dempster, a scholar like
Temple, and an erudite Scottish judge like
Sir David Dalrymple. They all address
Boswell in the same terms of a personal
affection for him, and an event on
Boswell’s first arrival in Holland called
forth several instances of that affection.
After the felicity of his life in London
such Dutch towns as Leyden and Utrecht
struck Boswell as extremely dismal places,
and he was afflicted by a tremendous
attack of depression ; a recurrence of that
hypochondria which he refers to in his
London Journal. In this case he gives us
a picture of himself in the act of enduring
it, and there is no doubt that, temporarily,
he was in a very unbalanced state of
mind:
At every hour the bells in the great tower
played a dreary psalm-tune. A deep
melancholy seized upon me. I groaned with
the idea of living all winter in such a shock-
ing place. I thought myself old and
wretched and forlorn. I was worse and
worse next day. All the horrid ideas you
can imagine crowded on me 1 sunk
quite into despair. I thought that the time
was come when I would grow mad. I
actually believed myself so. I went out to
the streets and even in public could not
refrain from groaning and weeping
bitterly My mind was filled with the
blackest ideas and all my powers of reason
forsook me. Would you believe it? I ran
frantic up and down streets, crying out,
bursting into tears, and groaning from my
innermost heart.
In this deplorable state he writes to his
friend Dempster, then in Paris, to come
and succor him in his despair. On getting
the letter, Dempster at once sets out in
a postchaise for Brussels ; no light under-
taking over the rough roads of that era,
and a continuous ordeal of 36 hours in
a rolling, jolting vehicle. But when he
arrives at Brussels, Boswell has not waited
for him, but in a demented quest of dis-
traction has gone off elsewhere. Instead
of cursing Boswell for inflicting such a
fruitless journey on him, Dempster sits
down and writes him a most amiable
letter, doing his best to mitigate Boswell’s
depression by such rational advice as:
I should think you might amuse yourself
by acquiring French, keeping a journal, and
writing to your friends, and debauching a
Dutch girl. But for heaven’s sake, no
more sallies into the street....
Temple writes to him in the same strain
of concern for his peace of mind and
well-being. Neither of these friends was
the sort of man to entertain such feelings
for Macaulay’s witless buffoon. Their
concern for him is a tribute to Boswell’s
worth and attractive personality. Temple
was an Oxfordian and a friend of Gray’s,
and Dempster was a wit, a good hedonist,
and a sceptic of the premises of revealed
religion and conventional morality; a
sophisticate of Fielding’s England as dis-
tinct from the moralistic bun-thunderings
of the Johnsonian circle. Temple, it may
be added, remained Boswell’s lifelong
friend, and Boswell used him as a secular
confessional in addition to his journals.
I can’t agree with the editor of
Boswell in Holland that his frequent
attacks of gloom and depression were
due to a frustrated ambition to be
acclaimed a Great Man. Wherever there
is a vital response to life based on a
concept of happiness, relapses into depres-
sion are inevitable by reality’s inability
to gratify the demands of fantasy. The
principle of duality under which we exist
insists on an antithetical response to all
emotion. All creative energy of mind has
its being in that infernal law of compensa-
tions. Johnson himself suffered from the
same attacks of hypochondria as Boswell,
but in his case this constitutional malady
was merged in bad-conscience for not
doing his job, which should have been a
caustic analysis of mankind’s insuffi-
ciencies rather than a buttering-up of its
complacence with moralistic sermons.
Beethoven, the central motif of whose
work is joy, endured such attacks of
mental torment that, like Boswell, he was
at such times temporarily mad. It was
Boswell’s tremendous gusto for life that
inflicted on him these collapses into a
morass of misery.
Though no sentient reader of Boswell’s
Life of Johnson could doubt the rare
quality of his mind, the publication of
his journals has not only established his
literary reputation but, as a pleasing side-
issue, has demolished finally the intel-
lectual standing of that blatherskite with
the decorative style, Macaulay. For over
a century Boswell has been more-or-less
accepted on Macaulay’s estimate of him
as a sot and a fool who, by a fantastic
freak, managed to write the best
biography in the English language.
A more witless contradiction in terms
it would be hard to imagine; and that is
about the sum of any estimation made by
Macaulay on human values, moral or
intellectual. That “book in breeches,”
that gasbag who talked down all other
voices with such intemperate volubility
that Lady Holland was forced to say
firmly at her dinner-table “Quite enough
of that, Macaulay,” to save her guests
from extinction by boredom, has done
more harm to clear thinking in the past
century than any other writer with such
a large public of readers. Macaulay was
a sexless wowser, and the truth is not in
such sterile mentalities cut off from the
balanced outlook on life that springs
from tolerance and hedonism.
It is due to Macaulay’s mendacious
History of England that English sapience
is only now waking-up to the discovery
that the Stuarts were the only kings of
England who strove to encourage a
civilised concept of culture in its people.
The creation of a literary consciousness
was due to the impetus given by James I
to the translation of the classics.
The genesis of plastic good-taste, later
vindicated by the splendid school of
English portrait-painters, was in
Charles Fs encouragement of foreign
painters at his court, and his own magni-
ficent collection of the world’s master-
pieces, a great many of which were
destroyed by that Stalin of his generation,
Cromwell. That typical Macaulay hero,
with the black dog Milton at heel, set
back the cultural energy created by Shak-
speare and the Elizabethans for over a
hundred years. What do the trivial poli-
tical disruptions ascribed to Charles I
count against the invaluable stimulus
he gave to culture? Even Charles II
did his best to mitigate the rancorous
religious hatreds released like a virus by
Cromwell,
Let it be not the least of Boswell’s
achievement that he has made Nemesis
come full-scale and brought his journal
down in thunder on Macaulay’s
bumptious cranium. It is to be hoped
that his fatuous estimate of Boswell will
be applied to all other corruptions to clear
thinking which are due to him.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
THE MIRROR.
Jan Vermeer Speaks.
Time that is always gone staya still
A moment in this quiet room.
Nothing exists but what we know,
The mirror gathers in the world.
Time and the wbrld. And I shall hold
All summers in a stroke of gold.
Twilight, and one last fall of sun
That slants across the window-sill,
And, mirrored darkly in the glass
('Can paint attempt that unlit void?).
All night, oblivion, is stayed
Within the curtain’s folded shade.
Upon the table bread and wine.
The earthen pitcher’s perfect curve
Once spun upon the potter’s wheel
Is pivot of the turning world,
Still centre where my peace abides,
Round moon that draws all restless tides.
There, it is done. The vision fades
And Time moves on. Oh you who praise
This tangled, broken web of paint,
1 paint reflections in a glass:
Who look on Truth with mortal sight
Are blinded in its blaze of light.
ses.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
THE ISLAND
The island is lost ground; an acre or two
In the realms of the sea. Is country
Once loved of mother earth. Now, a
whale’s back
Of wet mud, black, sliding back out of
vieW
Into the lost regions of a trackless sea;
And far, and farther away, as the tide’s
slack
Takes up; is submerged, or part submerged
Like a whale sounding in the shelving sea
—Or could it be less noticed than a whale,
It is so small an island? Even the clouds
have urged,
Whipped it with rain, like spray, to go
back to the sea;
Crawl out the primeval monster, swishing
a tail . . .
There are such pleasures as becoming
noticed, coming Under the eye
Of the lordly sun: an Island becoming
an “I.”
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
Reviewed Briefly.
Two Plays: Enid Bagnold (Heine-
mann). “Lottie Dundass,” performed in
London in 1943, is the play about the
girl-stenographer with a desire to act who
pushes her way into a show and, when the
leading-lady unexpectedly changes her
mind and decides to go on, strangles the
leading-lady in the dressing-room, and
goes on herself, to give a performance
of genius. In the interval before the last
act (of the play-in-the-play) Lottie has
a seizure, and her mother, who has dis-
covered the murder, withholds the
medicine that would have brought her
round. “Poor Judas,” done at Bradford
in 1946, is a thinner play.
The Clock Tower: Gordon McDonell
(Harrap). High in the Himalayas, not in
Tibet but at no great distance from that
mysterious land, lie the provinces of
Kotpal and its enemy Deroor. The
Kotpalis grow millet, and fear the wrath
of the mountain-peak Mungaysar, which
is also their god. Heedless of the frightful
penalty of stoning, they disport them-
selves when young., not altogether honor-
ably, beside the streams which nourish
their fields. Alas, when they are old they
"reap their youthful wild millet a hun-
dredfold. In all of which, despite the
somewhat flowery tone of this novel, they
bear some resemblance to other human
beings across the legendary Great Water
which is salt. And if a clock seems to
them an eye, which, by following the sun
at night, will bring the wrath of Mun-
gaysar upon then i, they are not, after
ail, very different .com those who attri-
bute all weather caprices to the discharge
of an atomic bomb. A
* * * *
Cricket: Reg Simpson (Nicholas Kaye).
By the English; Test batsman, the book
mainly consists of hints and advice on all
aspects of the g me, with additional
chapters on umpiring, “improving ( the
game,” etc. Simpson has been described
as the most elegant batsman playing
today; his v literary style, however, has
none of the same polish. As well, he
overdoes the trite and hackneyed phrases
on the virtues of cricket, and labors
aiready-well-covered ground ; and there
is a regrettable shortage of anecdote.
(The best story is of the Australian
country umpire; who appealed with the
bowler for l.b.w. against visiting English
captain Brown, aad then gave him out!)
Should be a useful guide for coaches and
beginners, to purpose for which it is
apparently intended. '.
* * *
The Salamander Touch: Ivan Roe
(Hutchinson). In this new novel the
author of The Green Tree and the Dry
gets inside the mind of a British adver-
tising-executive whose schooldays-friend,
now an atom-scientist, has disappeared
with secret documents. The book be-
comes a nightmare hue-and-cry of news-
papers and detectives, circling round a
Czech inventor who hopes to build an
electric brain equal to a human brain, a
Government official seeking only an
occasion for high-treason, a politician
playing for bis own ends, and an adver-
tising-manager, of titled family but with
no money, trying to keep a wife and a
mistress; the whole garnished with the
narrator’s personal nightmare of having,
on guard-duty daring the war, shot and
killed the husband of his mistress. Every-
one is warning everyone else that every-
one else is a dangerous man to be seen
talking to, and this seems likely enough:
it is a subtle study of small treacheries, a
book that is truly contemporary.


&
\
YOU CHOOSE THE COLOUR
rs.
AND TELL US WHERE TO LAY IT.
RUBBER FLOORING DEPARTMENT
FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401
BOX 2713 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Ski:
Sip
Consider the Economy of
Rubber Flooring
Consider the economy of rubber when buying new floorings- —for though the
initial expense may be a little heavier than you planned at first, its lifetime
of wear will pay you back threefold. Decorative . . . Durable .. . Hygienic . . .
its glossy, non-slip surface will add new life and glamour to your home
and office. Come, choose yours from our Rubber Flooring Department —it has
the largest range in Sydney.
MAKE YOUR SELECTION FROM
THESE DURABLE RUBBERS . . ■
Australian “Keytone” rubber flooring, in shades of
green, fawn, blue, cherry, rose and rose multicolour.
36in., 40/6 yard.
“Continental” rubber flooring, in shades of light
rose, light green, rust, blue, fawn and mushroom. 1
36in., 40/9 yard.
British rubber flooring, in light green, blue, cherry,
green, fawn, and rose multicolour. 36in., 57/3.
British rubber, fawn and brown tile design. 72in.,
126/' yard.
a TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
iSthon; Horderns
HOSPITALS AND HOMES
OFFICE FLOORS
FOR THEATRE FOYERS
*i\vJS
FOR SNACK BAR FLOORS
SHOP FLOORS


Hi
You can’t have a chain without links . .
NO SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS is an isolated unit ... it
is a link in a great industrial chain.
For instance, when General Motors-Holden’s estab-
lished their plants in five States of the Commonwealth,
they not only widened employment opportunities for
skilled craftsmen in their own industry, but they opened
up new fields of activity within the industries that supply
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
General Motors-Holden’s shop all over Australia to
procure the 30,000 different types of products they need.
The supply lines are fed by industries engaged in the
production of steel, wool, paper, plastics, rubber,
cotton, aluminium, glass, timber, etc.
But the chain stretches even further. Today, the ten
thousand employees at General Motors-Holden’s are also
closely linked with ten thousand people engaged in the
distribution and servicing of GMH products in prac-
tically every city and town of the Commonwealth.
The successful operation of one industry contributes
to the success of others spreading the field of employ-
ment, contributing to the expansion of our economy and
industrial techniques, raising the standard of living.
General Motors - Holden’s is a link in the chain of
Australia’s progress ... a link in the security of thousands
of Australian families.
î
• » • G/
O'fuiMa/iaA
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
■SOO4G


The Bulletin
Vol 73—No. 3782
Wednesday, August 6, 1952
SOMETHING TO TAKE HOME.
"in their first appearance at an Olympiad, Soviet contestants ran second to the United States in points awards.”
“Well done, Russki! Now take this back to Moscow and don’t let it go out when you get it there.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
**Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth .
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G-P.0.), Wellington.
A STIFF SESSION AHEAD.
The new Federal Parliamentary session
will be a vital one for the Menzies-
Fadden Government. Its tasks are
tremendous, its obstacles forbidding. It
needs to regain the prestige it lost as the
result of the defeat by a narrow majority
of its anti-Communist referendum, in
respect of which it allowed “Labor” to
take the initiative. It was compelled to
impose hasty and heavy-handed measures
in dealing with inflation and the import
situation because the circumstances
allowed no other type to be used. It had
to use them on a community dazzled by
rising money incomes and not fully
awake to the significance of the return
of a buyers’ market.
Nothing had happened to disturb
happy squandering by the Australian
people for years. They had ceased to
fear unemployment, competition from
abroad, the strangling effects of high
costs. Wool was high, and so was the
exchange-rate. It was only when “Labor”
went the limit in 1949 and took steps
against the banks that the electors threw
the Chifley Government out and elected
the Menzies-Fadden Government, whose
leaders were perfectly frank about what
might lie ahead. A boom period of arti-
ficial prices for wool and other export
products in its first year of office was
marked also by the beginning of a return
to a buyers’ market in civilian goods,
especially as former enemy countries
came back into world trading. The
Ministry thus encountered problems
which the Labor Government had never
been forced even to consider. “Labor”
had been carried along on the crest of
the post-war economic wave. The Liberal-
C.P. inherited the results of the 40-hour
week and the artificial exchange rate.
Medicine had to be administered at a
time when world prices of wool were in
for a5O per cent. fall. “Output,” “effi-
ciency” and “production costs” started to
have a real meaning again.
Sections of the country have taken the
administration of the medicine with a very
bad grace. The larger part of the Press
has joined with the pressure-groups,
whose motto is “Every man for himself
and the devil take the hindmost.” There
has been too little community effort to get
behind the Government and face the
inevitable with it in order to get the
difficult period over.
The load which is due to fall on the
economy of Australia —an economy eaten
into at present by too little work, falling
production and rising prices due to the
basic wage and the rotting of public
assets, seen only too clearly on the roads,
in transport and in the production of
power-will be heavy because of defence
needs alone.
Mr. Churchill’s speech in London last
week made it clear that the time had
come when it was no longer possible for
the Dominions to lean on Britain for their
defence, as they have done except when
spurred into action by the desperate
necessities of war. Mr. Churchill signifi-
cantly linked his announcement that he
would preside at the British Common-
wealth Economic Conference in Novem-
ber with an intimation that it would now
be necessary to bring the United King-
dom’s defence programme within the
bounds of her economic ability. This
should picture the situation clearly to
Australians.
The forecasts of the Budget indicate
that the Australian Government expects
the defence vote to be the largest peace-
time one in history. But some of the State
Governments and some of the pressure-
groups apparently don’t care. Their
whole policy is centred round an
effort to ward off discomfort, even tem-
porary, to maintain the greedy levels of
earning of the past few years. And it
is strange to see some of the most grasp-
ing elements with this end in view, hand-
in-glove in policy with Federal “Labor,”
which, rent by schisms, pressure-groups
and sectarianism, has only one aim
—-by hook or by crook to destroy the
Government and to go on with its pro-
gramme of socialisation so far as the
Constitution will permit, which is far
enough to ruin the country and turn it
into something very like a Communist
totalitarian State.
There is no doubt about the unscrupu-
lous nature of the Opposition, which the
Government will have to face in and out
of Parliament. The procedure which is
being followed by the political “Labor”
party one which is strangely in contrast
with the professions of the “moderates”
who have taken charge of the N. S. Wales
and Victorian labor political organisa-
tions is almost precisely that upon which
the Communist party has built its strength
m Australia over the years. It is a cam-
paign to encourage sectional greed and
friction and to defeat the Administration
in power by the creation of panic and
dissension. Its key theme is the fear of
unemployment, a savage weapon in
hands as politically unscrupulous as those
of Messrs. Evatt, Ashley and Ward.
These are already leading the attack
with illusionary figures and the support
of bodies whose records speak for them-
selves. Mr. Ashley has been strewing
the poison of panic for weeks. Mr. Ward
last week called an “unemployment” con-
ference in his electorate and invited the
Prime Minister to attend in a tongue-in-
cheek telegram which seemed to suggest
that desolation and starvation were just
round the corner. And, at the properly
concerted moment. Dr. Evatt weighed in
with a solemn and specious statement
that the Government’s measures had
“undermined confidence and challenged
the people’s stability in employ-
ment, business and industry.” He avers
that an “attack is being levelled at the
standard of living,” which “has been
slowly built up,” and, finally, holds that
the “failure by the Government to main-
tain employment of our people is now
recognised.” This clearly indicates the
nature of “Labor’s” submissions and its
mean objective.
The “Labor” propagandists in N. S.
Wales have the support of a vast body
of clerical and professional workers,
mainly civil-service employees. The
development of this propaganda agency,
directed apparently by forces not
altogether unconnected with Communist
organisations and largely seated among
the Government’s owm employees in the
postal unions and public-service bodies,
is an indication of the extent and power
of the propaganda forces which are work-
ing against the Government.
If Mr. Menzies had accomplished
nothing more than to bring in the era
of industrial peace which reigns at
present, and provide the unions with the
means through which inflation has been
checked in spite of all adverse influ-
ences and irresponsible opposition, his
Government could claim to have made a
success of its period of office. If it had
done no more than put defence t on a
sound basis and helped to re-establish the
workable cohesion of the British Com-
monwealth, which Dr. Evatt did so much
to destroy, it would have justified its
existence.
But it is one thing for a Government
to succeed and another to persuade the
electors, in the face of wickedly hostile
undermining and dishonest criticism, that
it has succeeded.
There are cynical critics of the Govern-
mental propaganda set-up who declare
that the Government’s main failure is in
its public relations, and this is due to the
fact that its Ministers and organisers can
see no good in any publicist unless he
has proved himself as an advocate of
“Labor’s” policies.
However that may be, the Govern-
ment’s main failure so far has been in
its public relations. It suffers from lack
of power to put its case, and Mr. Menzies
and his Ministers need to go closely into
the reasons why this is so.
Darwin Doings.
From “Wingella.”
Broken Hill Prop, has taken a two-
year option over 10 leases on the
main lode at Maranboy, N.T. Its
claims are now six miles in length by
150 ft. to 200 ft. in width. The total
area of the Maranboy tinfield covers
some 16 square miles.
Rev. H. M. Wynter, acting-rector at
Christ Church, Darwin, has been
appointed Priest-in-Charge of Torres
Straits Missions. Included in the
mission are 16 islands, each with its
own church, which are ministered to
by nine native priests and deacons.
Deputy-leader of the Labor party,
Arthur Calwell, after a short stay in
Darwin, has announced that the town’s
most urgent needs are a full municipal
council, elected by adult franchise,
better wharfage facilities, and comple-
tion of the railway. He also advo-
cates the division of the N.T. into two
separate States, with Darwin as one
capital and Alice Springs as the other.
All too true; Territory residents have
stressed the urgent needs of all these
things for the last 40 years or more.
What we want is not someone who
sheds crocodile-tears over our needs,
but an active, energetic Parliamentary
head who will see that we get these
things.
Daly settlers have consistently com-
plained about the post-war road from
Stuart Highway to the Daly, which
meanders through Tipperary station,
and is about 60 miles longer than it
has any need to be. The Department
of Works, and Housing, when asked
to reopen the old pre-war track
through Stapleton, complained that it
would cost £4OOO (strange how
W, and H. love that price; it’s the
cost per room for building the new
nurses’ quarters and the cost of a new
lav. for Administration officers) and
would be waste of time, as they in-
tended to build a new road to come
out near Adelaide River. So two Daly
settlers, Charlie Dargie and G.
Taylor, took the 25 blacks usually em-
ployed on their farms and started on
the reopening of the old Stapleton
track. They began the work on a
Saturday and finished it on Wednes-
day. This included the levelling of
creek-crossings, removal of scrub, and
blinding 32 miles of roadway with fine
gravel. Whole cost was a few pounds
for out-of-pocket expehses; the
abos found the place abounding with
natural native food.
Death of Dr. W. Kirkland came
as a shock to old Darwinites, who
remember his fine work (which won
him the 0.8. E.) during the Darwin air-
raids, when he worked for three days
and nights almost without rest, and
with the crudest of appliances, for the
raids had put all electric-light and
-power plants out of action. Eight
craters caused by 10001 b. bombs were
afterwards counted round about the
hospital; though, fortunately, only
minor damage was done to the build-
ings themselves.
For the 12 months up to June 30,
Newcastle Waters recorded only 556
points of rain, as against an average
rainfall (over the last 10 years) of
2244 points. Residents are praying
for an early wet.
Billy Bray, aged 85, and well-known
resident of Katherine, died there a
fortnight ago. A veteran of World
War I, Billy was formerly master
coachbuilder for Cobb and Co.
Mrs. Wise, Mr. and Mrs, Frazer and
Miss Thompson have lately flown to
the various mission-stations by air.
They breakfasted at Bathurst Island,
lunched at Croker Island, and tea’d
at Goulbum Island. (Look up the
distances your map.) The
Administrator and Mrs. Wise then
went on an overland tour to the Barkly
Tableland, and returned last week.
• • • • [S]
Teddy Foster, formerly manager and
owner of the (now-defunct) “Northern
Territory Times,” has just celebrated
his 76th birthday. Teddy, who
arrived in Darwin, then Palmerston,
in 1897, retired to Sydney a few years
ago, but is spending the winter months
back in Darwin again.
Two American scientists, visiting
the North under the Fulbright Scholar-
ship, are doing well in Arnheim Land.
Coming with his wife, Doctor Water-
man has been accepted into the social
life of the camp, and been provided
with a mother-in-law by the old-men’s
council. At first the Doctor committed
a faux pas; he spoke to his official
mother-in-law, and it took some time
for him to live down that blunder. In-
cidentally, the lady is not permitted
to speak to him, nor even to look at
him ; the Doctor thinks that these abos
have something which they can safely
teach the white man, very much to his
well-being and comfort.
Highfalutin on High Wages.
A fortnight ago Dr. Evatt, sobered per-
haps by the challenge to declare what
remedies “Labor” had for the increased
menace of inflated costs upon the national
economy, said that this was “an acute
national problem,” and that “the ‘Labor’
movement will play its part in reaching a
fair and just solution.” Then “the move-
ment,” in the form of plenipotentiaries
from the AC.T.U. and the A.W.U., called
Dr. Evatt and others of the political wing
into conference at Canberra and, while
Dr. Evatt made a meal of his words,
drafted his course for him.
The business could not have been more
pointed if Dr. Evatt had confessed that
he was flying a little kite of his own, such
as a national Government of all parties
under Dr. Evatt. He was told —“No co-
operation in anything.” To make that
quite clear, the A.L.P. even chucked the
Calwell immigration policy overboard.
While Sydney “Herald” gave pride of
place on its news page to Mr. Ward’s
Paddington meeting on unemployment,
Melbourne “Age” did the same for Dr.
Evatt’s outline of the party’s censure
motion for when Parliament meets. These
were direct results of the Canberra meet-
ing. “Labor” not only won’t co-operate ;
it wouldn’t wait even to listen to the
Government’s Budget proposals. The
Government is to be attacked because,
as Dr. Evatt put it, “full employment no
longer exists in the economy.”
The failure of the Government to main-
tain full employment of our people is now
recognised, and without full employment
there can never be economic stability,
social justice or effective national develop-
ment.
By full employment “Labor” means
“overfull employment”—the condition for
union exploitation of more jobsithan hands
—maintained by means of the steepest
possible taxation together with un-
limited bank credit for Government works
at any uneconomical wage, however high.
Some two or three quarters ago “Labor”
Premier Cahill of N.S.W. said the
quarterly basic-wage rise of that day was
“calamitous.” The monstrous grip of this
wage-and-cost spiral on the nation is now
such that all gas, electric-power, freights
and other “controlled” service charges
leap upward every quarter as soon as the
new wage-base is announced, and business
and trade are running down simply be-
cause the public can’t buy. No Govern-
ment alone can check the trend. Un-
employment of course begins. Unskilled
labor and skilled labor alike are being
priced out of the market just as Aus-
tralian manufactures are being priced out
of the market against imported goods.
The building industry, ruined by every
sort of cost-inflation, go-slow and indus-
trial blackmail, is faced with the truth
that citizens can’t pay the current cost of
the flimsiest homes unless Governments
provide the money.
The only constitutional remedy lies
with the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court. But “Labor” will have none of
that. It won’t agree on combined action
with employers as the court tried, for six
months, to induce it to do. One influ-
ential union secretary who habitually is
found in the Communist claque dares
the A.C.T.U. to appear in the court to
argue the question, and urges instead “a
union revolt to bring about a social
change.” The A.C.T.U, for its part urges
still higher boosting of wages and the
nailing of all prices to the counter for an
indefinite long period.
No doubt about what this “Labor” pro-
gramme means. It demands the printing
of bank-notes for spending-money till the
pound is worth a few pence and on the
proceeds “creation” of so much employ-
ment on public works that all but Gov-
ernment enterprise will collapse. This
“full employment” will, Dr. Evatt says,
“restore stability.” Indeed, he says that
nothing else will.
The president of the Electrical Radio
and Telephone Manufacturers of Aus-
tralia has announced that if wage-rises
continue his industry is doomed, for all
the efficiency it has shown. He shows
that on a formula compounding all
factors, wages, hours and exchange, Aus-
tralian costs are already double those of
Britain ; that the Australian manufacturer
has to pay out for skilled labor £l9B
against the English manufacturer’s £lOO,
and for unskilled labor £202 against every
£lOO.
The condition is beyond the control of
the Australian industrialist and stems
from the nation’s attitude, as reflected by
awards and wages, towards WORK.
And all Dr. Evatt can say is “restore
full employment,” “peg prices”; never
a word about “more work.” He pre-
tends that the cure is political, and that
only “Labor” knows how. But sbm
how? Not on your life.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Anzus at Honolulu.
The Pacific Pact Conference taking place
at Honolulu and attended by Messrs. R.
G. Casey and Sir Percy Spender on
behalf of Australia has been christened
the ANZUS conference, but this seems
to be putting the cart a little before the
horse. Most Australian politicians who
favor the pact certainly hope that Aus-
tralia and New Zealand will have an
equal say with the United States, but they
hope equally that when it comes to action
the United States will be well in the van.
The United States knows that inevitably
it will be, hence the readiness of the
American papers to interpret a general-
ised statement by the Australian Am-
bassador in Washington on Australia’s
military potential as meaning that Aus-
tralia was ready to “send a million
fighting-men into the field in defence of
the United States, Japan or the Philip-
pines in the event of attack by Russia.”
The fact is that, as Mr. Casey said
before leaving for Honolulu on Saturday,
the talks will not commit Australia to
any military undertakings or specific mili-
tary contributions, but will deal only with
potential situations and how to meet
them.
It is to be hoped that his further
remark —that the situation is so fluid that
precise commitments are impossible, that
nobody knows how the world situations
will develop, and that he fully expects
the discussions will go beyond the limits
of the Pacific —will put a stop to the silly
talk as to whether Australia is in the
Pacific zone, the Middle Eastern Defence
zone or a part of South-East Asia.
The plain fact is that Australia —and
every other Western country —will be
called on to help in whatever zone the
Western Powers may be pressed in the
case of attack. Whether the main zone
of aggression is Scandinavia, Africa,
South America or South-East Asia it will
be up to Australia to do its part as it is
doing it in Korea without regard to
geographical position. A victory for the
U.S.S.R. and its satellites against any
Western Power would be a preliminary
victory in a heat leading to the main
attack on this country.
There is no need for Australia to
become entangled in the politics of any
particular zone. Its policy in defence and
foreign relations should be limited to
two questions: (1) Is our trade and pros-
perity affected? (2) Is our security
affected? And to each set of words the
phrase “directly or indirectly” may be
added. «
Beyond that what goes on in the world
is a domestic matter with those involved
in it, and not our business, and any tres-
pass by us is dangerous busybodying.
The discussions which are taking place
are sound policy on the basis that they
will consider the circumstances under
which we may be involved and settle with
whom we will be co-operating and in
what event.
The Ball and the Game.
Mr. W. Macmahon (“Unpleasant
Evening”) Ball, professor of political
science at Melbourne University and
authority on S.E. Asia for the A.8.C.,
has been asked to accept another mission
to East Asia, assigned to him this time
not by Dr. Evatt (for Dr, Evatt is no
longer Minister for External Affairs) but
by Dr. Burton and a general meeting of
students of Melbourne University, who
“chose” him as a delegate to the Sep-
tember Peking “peace” conference
arranged by the Soviet’s Far Eastern
Comintern. In such ways does the late
Evattian diplomatic corps continue in
the twilight its exercises in the once-
notorious “larrikin strain.”
In the days when he was doyen of the
corps, Mr. Ball was sent by Master
on “a goodwill mission to 10 East Asian
countries” which in Malaya revealed itself
stony-broke in goodwill at the memorable
dinner given to it in Kuala Lumpur by
the British High Commissioner —the
dinner after which Mr. Ball was so far
lost to diplomacy also as to thank his
host “for a most unpleasant evening”
and his host replied cheerfully that he
entirely agreed. During this era Mr.
Ball had gone on record, too, as holding
that White Australia was a myth which
for intellectuals like himself had been ex-
ploded. The Peking Communists quite
approve. Of his “interpretation” of Aus-
tralia in the 10 East Asian countries little
report reached the public. That perhaps
was just as well.
Yielding to the Melbourne students’
meeting, Mr. Ball told the Melbourne
Press that his “decision to go” to Peking
“should not be taken to imply that he
accepted any statements from the prepara-
tory conference in Peking that Dr. Burton
attended,” nor that he “approved Com-
munist China’s domestic or foreign
policy.” Without specifying whether its
colors might be white, brown or brindle,
he said:
I think it worth while for an Australian
delegation to go if it could he reasonably
assumed that there might be some chance
of the conference doing something, how-
ever small, to avoid a general war. I think
I am old enough and hard-boiled enough
not to be taken in by Communist propa-
ganda.
Master of Ormond College in Mel-
bourne University, S. L. Prescott, was
also “chosen” by the meeting, but, “still
laughing about it” next day, said, in effect,
that he would not touch a ticket for the
Peking conference with a 40ft. pole. Mr.
Hard-boiled Ball spent another unpleasant
evening after he heard Mr. Prescott’s
laugh echoing in the cloisters, and got
another statement in the Melbourne Press
on the following day to explain that he
would go to Peking only on conditions.
Acceptance, he repeated, must not be held
to imply that he had swallowed the
decisions of the Peking May Conference,
and if Communist papers were to be
there to report the proceedings reporters
from anti-Communist countries must be
allowed freedom of the gathering also.
“Some people seem to think I already
have my ticket in my pocket. That is
far from the case.”
T Can it be that the A.B.C. has been
aroused to action? After all, there may
be some unpleasant evenings in store at
home here, too.
Melbourne "Planners."
Encouraged by the “success” of the
N.S.W. Cumberland County Council
scheme, the planners of the Melbourne
and Metropolitan Board of Works have
produced their opus.
Disturbed by Melbourne’s sprawl, they
have bent themselves over their drawing-
boards, and within a year expect their
collective brains to produce a master-plan
which will for ever solve the problem.
The original cost of this plan and its host
of experts was estimated to be £50,000.
It has grown to over £200,000, and
nobody knows who is going to pay it, the
ratepayers already being overburdened.
The first step in implementing this plan
was to draw up a large map of Melbourne
and to define the boundary of the
suburban area. All land beyond, within
a 15- to 20-mile radius of the city, is to
be “frozen.” Without the approval of
the planners no subdivision or develop-
ment will be permitted. It has come to
be known as the “green belt.”
With no very clear idea in their mind
of what they were going to do next, the
planners desired the Board of Works to
apply for an interim development order
covering this “green belt” . and also
sections of the urban area which they may
require for the building and widening of
arterial roads. Large areas of land in
industrial South Melbourne now occupied
by factories were to be “frozen.” Even
Prince Henry’s Hospital, one of the finest
sickbays in the city, was not exempt.
The board met on July 1 to consider
the issuing of the order, and, as the
board is composed of representatives of
shires and municipal councils, it was
decided that they should be given time
to consider all the implications.
The issue was taken up by the Victorian
League of Rights and other organisations
which had seen the stagnating, oppressive
results of the Cumberland scheme and
which appreciated the threat to the indi-
vidual property-owners. The L. of R.
obtained the legal opinion of a Q.C.,
which indicated that the Board of Works
would have to pay compensation—but
apparently out of nothing. The public
response was immediate. Bumbles
and M.P.s were swamped by the demands
of indignant ratepayers to stop the issuing
of the order.
With local council elections in the
offing, many councils contended that the
proposal was amorphous and asked for
more time to consider all the implications.
The board met again on July 29, and
bowed to the storm of public feeling and
the blizzard of letters from local councils.
It was moved without discussion that the
issuing of the order be deferred for an-
other eight weeks.
Round One to the ratepayers —but the
planners are very confident that they will
get the powers if they wait long enough.
Melbourne ratepayers won’t want a bar
of the scheme if they first get a full report
on post-war N. S. Wales “Labor” local-
government, which is a shocker.
The Olympians.
It appears, when one searches among the
smaller paragraphs in the pages of the
daily Press, that some countries besides
Australia won events at the Games at
Helsinki. But in Australia the com-
petitors, to the average man not versed
in the intricate details of “sport,” seem
to consist of somebody named “Marge”
and an occasional Australian cyclist or
swimmer who shakes the ice off the Poles
and makes the rest of the world look
feeble by winning a gold medal.
Our representatives, on the whole, did
very well. Congratulations to them. But
it is time we looked at these events in a
really more sporting spirit.
One of the most striking facts about
the results is that the United Kingdom,
which is probably the country most de-
voted to amateur sport carried on in a
sporting spirit in the world, gained only
a third of the unofficial “points” awarded
to Russia.
It seems to lend point to remarks
made by Field-Marshal Montgomery
some time ago when the entry of the
Russians into the games was mooted. Let
them come, he said, in effect, the more
the merrier ; but he added that in Russia
and other Iron Curtain countries there
was no distinction between amateurs and
professionals. In fact, in the U.S.S.R.
athletes are professionals trained under
Government supervision, and if they were
to compete it would be only fair to allow
the professionals of all other countries
to take part so that they might be on
equal terms.
It is not only in the U.S.S.R. and its
satellites that it is difficult in these days
to decide where professionalism ends and
amateurism begins. The Olympic Games,
like many other international competi-
tions, have become intense contests be-
tween heavily subsidised national teams
who make sport their first mission in life
for the publicity purposes of their
countries. The few exceptions which
maintain the spirit of the games, like the
United Kingdom, stand little chance.
No Worry at Backy's Bay.
An Adelaide “Advertiser” man who inter-
viewed them says that the residents of
Backy’s Bay, which is about 20 miles
north of Whyalla, on Spencer’s Gulf, don’t
seem to be worried by “the prospect of
Government development, generally, in
their neighborhood.” Since there are only
about six of them, it wouldn’t matter
much if they did.
Backy’s Bay is an unknown spot upon
which public attention has fallen by
Premier Playford’s statement that it may
become the site of the first industrial
atomic-pile plant in Australia. The bay
is a deep-water inlet of the Gulf, East
are the Gulf waters where they narrow
sharply to form the last long finger
reaching up to Port Augusta ; inland lie
the saltbush plains. There are Cultana
station (about .08 sheep to the acre) and
a little lighthouse on the southern point.
Premier Playford seems to think the
first atomic pile will be somewhere at the
head of Spencer’s Gulf, a long-neglected
area now important because of Whyalla’s
shipyards and steelworks, the Murray-
Whyalla pipeline, opening of Leigh Creek
coalmine and emergence of Port Augusta
as a power centre.
And from Port Augusta, on the recom-
mendation of a royal commission on the
North-South railway, a new standard-
gauge railway is to run west of the
Flinders Ranges to Brachina, Leigh Creek
and Alice Springs.
It’s all nothing more than visions as
yet, but the visions are good. If the
developments in nuclear fission can plant
a few new towns out in the saltbush, far
enough from State capitals to prevent
them becoming mere outer suburbs,
science and the international tension may
give us some real decentralisation.
What’s more, South Australia has a
knack of translating visions into reality.
A dozen years ago Whyalla was about
as thickly populated as Backy’s Bay; today
nearly 10,000 people live there. It’s a
better idea to put new industrial towns
on comparatively unproductive areas
than to allow existing ones to spread over
and suffocate their own food-supplies, as
has happened in Sydney and Melbourne,
and is in process of happening elsewhere.
Paid Councillors.
Learning with disgust that Premier
Cahill intended to implement the A.L.P.
decision that councillors and aldermen
should be paid £250 a year, “The Shire
and Municipal Record” added more
scorn to that here summarised (B.
9/7/’52), remarking that within a fort-
night of the Cahill announcement there
was a delighted gathering at Gosford,
where a “municipal assembly” was formed
to nominate three candidates for each
riding at the next l.g. elections.
This is undoubtedly a forerunner of
many similar bodies which will come into
existence in shires and municipalities
throughout the State before the 1953 elec-
tions.
Citizens will be surprised and delighted
to find the new champions that will arise
to fight their wrongs on a basis of £250 a
year. That this new spirit of public ser-
vice did not erupt' until a small pot of
gold was discovered at the end of the
local-government rainbow is just one ot
those mysteries.
There is not the slightest doubt that where
politics touches local-government it will
defile it
One of the slyest moves to facilitate the
introduction of politics into local-govern-
ment is to perpetuate the notion that
politics “must come,” that it is “inevitable.”
There is nothing surer if this view gains
ground and no defence raised against its
intrusion than local-government will,
indeed, be doomed.
A quick survey of l.g. opinion resulted;
Maitland (Aid. Monckton): “We don’t
want aldermen to be like paid politicians.”
Ashford Shire: Unanimously against.
Inverell (Mayor Onus): “It would not end
at £250 a year”; (Aid. Milner): “It might
attract riff-raff and opportunists.” Mac-
intyre Shire: “It is wrong.” Taree: Pro-
testing. Muswelibrook (Aid. Anderson):
“It stinks.” (Protesting). Tamworth
(Mayor Varley): It is dangerous. Albury
(Mayor Bunton): “I will oppose it.” Junee:
Protesting. Gunnedah: Protesting. Cess-
nock (Mayor Oldfield); “It’s an affront.”
Bathurst; “It is wrong.” Orange: Against
it. Newcastle: “It is detrimental.” Kears-
ley Shire favors it.
Few people outside the “Labor” party
will support the scheme. But that won’t
stop the Cahills. The only way they can
be stopped is at the ballot-box, in l.g,
as well as State elections.
The Squealers.
About 99 per cent, of the squealing
now assaulting the Australian welkin is
coming from those who thoroughly en-
joyed inflation, simply cannot believe that
the picnic is over, and think if they yell
loudly enough they can get it back.
There is a profound reluctance to get
down to hard facts. People who make
panic statements about unemployment,
“spokesmen” for retail shops, builders,
estate-agents, farmers’ organisations and
other pressure-groups yelp for one reason
and one reason alone—they can’t make
money so easily. This also applies to
union leaders, whose members now have
to work for what they get, can’t stand
over their employers, and have lost much
of that highly-paid, non-taxable weekend
work with which inflation provided them.
When anybody talks about unemploy-
ment, think of the miles of roads in need
of repair, the dilapidated public schools,
the homes waiting to be built, the thou-
sands of urgent jobs still to be done.
When a building-trade yelp goes up,
reflect that there’s no longer a black-
market in bricks, cement, tiles and
timber ; that building contracts are now
firm and not loaded with all sorts of
variable clauses usually resulting in the
building costing twice the estimate. Even
time-limits have come back.
Is it an estate-agent squealing? A
house that would have cost £6OOO a year
ago, though it cost less than half that to
build, can now be got at from £l5OO to
£2OOO cheaper. A retail-trade “spokes-
man” talks of loss and ruin. Well,
retailers have to compete for busi-
ness now; no more big money is
being made from the sale of dildols
and gewgaws. Where the prices of
household appliances and furniture
are not actually cheaper they have cer-
tainly stopped becoming dearer. And
there are frequent outbursts of “price-
cutting wars” in meat, canned fruits and
some groceries.
A man can buy a car now without
having to pay more than list price or
bribing somebody to gain early delivery.
Motor firms offer terms, good trade-in
values, and “prompt delivery.” Repairs
no longer mean being shot at for the cost
of waste rags or blackmarket prices for
spare-parts.
This sort of thing is apparent every-
where, particularly so in Sydney, where
blackmarkets and other rackets flourished
and made the city a byword to the rest
of Australia. Significantly enough, it’s
the place whence most of the squealing
comes.
Setting Steel Free.
In the dying months of the Attlee Labor
Government Britain’s Socialists were
asked to postpone the vesting-day of their
Steel Nationalisation Act, leaving the fate
of the measure to be determined by the
people at the next election. However,
acting on the Calwell principle that a
plucked duck can’t be rethatched or a
scram,bied-egg put back into its shell
again, they proclaimed the Act in
February, 1951, with the result that 92
“scheduled companies” were taken over
by the Iron and Steel Corporation of
Great Britain, their shareholders receiv-
ing as compensation Government 3\ per
cent, stock to the tune of about £240
million. The Conservatives made it clear
that if they were returned to power they
would restore steel to private ownership.
o Continued on next page.)


■ -
>
AIDS
Your ANA Hostess is a Trained Officer..
Young ladles ... charming ... friendly .;; eager to help. Your A.N.A.
Hostess, thoroughly trained, ensures your every comfort when you
your way by Australia's most experienced airline . . . A.N.A.
WING YOUR WAY WITH
•"Vi
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS P T Y, LTD.
Branches and Agents throughout the Commonwealth
and in the subsequent election nine
months ago they made this one of their
main planks.
In the Speech from the Throne at the
opening of the new Parliament, the
Churchill Government’s intention to
denationalise steel was repeated. The
statement brought from Mr. Strauss,
who, as Minister for Supply in the Attlee
Government, had been responsible for
implementing the Steel Steal, an appeal to
the Government to change its mind, and
a threat that if it didn’t Labor would
again take over the industry as soon as
the political pendulum swung its way
again.
Mr, Duncan Sandys, Minister for
Supply, told him that the Government
still looked upon steel-nationalisation as
a “grave error.” It felt that the industry
could only give its best to the national
effort under free enterprise. They could
not expect the sellers’ market to continue
indefinitely; soon they would have to
face keen competition, and under nation-
alisation steel - manufacturers would
“inevitably become less and less capable”
of exercising the “independent judgment
and initiative” necessary to hold their
export markets. The Minister said it
would be some time before a complete
plan was produced, and before this was
done there would be consultation with
the Iron and Steel Federation, the T.U.C.
and principal steel consumers. He fore-
shadowed the appointment of a board,
representative of the Government,
management, labor and consumers to
control the industry.
This stage has apparently now been
reached, as last week the British Govern-
ment announced the establishment of an
Iron and Steel Board, to consist of not
more than 12 members, appointed for not
more than five years. A bill is to be
brought down for the dissolution of the
Iron and Steel Corporation, and the
transfer of the stock of the nationalised
companies to a holding agency, appointed
by the Treasury, which will arrange the
return of the companies to private owner-
ship. The Government expects the
process of restoring the industry to free
enterprise to take several years. Un-
scrambling the eggs, as Labor foresaw,
will not be an easy task, but it is one that
the Conservatives must begin. To side-
step it would be to admit that nationalisa-
tion is a good thing after all. It would
be an acceptance of the inevitability of a
Socialist Britain.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Unemployment” has always been a
magic word to E. J. Ward ; his whole
reputation as a Parliamentary orator has
been built upon it. Since the war he has
had to rely mainly on reminiscences of
past dole-queues seasoned with dire
prophecies of those to come. Now he
feels that he can once more speak of
unemployment in here-and-now terms,
and he’s determined to go to town about
it. Last Thursday he fired his first shot
in his new depression campaign, challeng-
ing the Government to deny that the real
number unemployed exceeded 100,000
and sounding as if he’d be bitterly dis-
appointed to be proved wrong.
For the first time in his career Eddie
said a kindly word about migrants, who,
it appears, “are victims of this Govern-
ment just as our own Australians are.
They are induced to come to Australia
under false promises from this Govern-
ment.” He then went on to attack the
new quota of 80,000 migrants which he
. claimed merely meant adding 80,000 un-
employed to existing figures.
While Ward was making these state-
ments his one-time boon companion
Arthur Calwell was telling a radio-
audience of Australia’s empty North and
the need to fill it. Calwell was entitled
to be annoyed that the East Sydney
orator should place all the blame on the
Menzies Government for bringing
migrants to Australia ; Arthur was entitled
to expect some share of it. Shortly
before he went out of office—and Eddie
with him—he said he was confident that
in the 12 months ending in June, 1950,
at least 170,000 newcomers “will arrive in
Australia and that in the following years
the numbers will be even greater.” He
hoped Australia’s population would reach
9,000,000 by 1954 and that “Australians
now living would survive to see their
country inhabited by 20 million people.”
With all his faults Calwell is in some
measure a man of vision. Ward sees only
spectres.
“S. M. Herald” sent a reporter (heavily
disguised as an unemployed carpenter)
around to the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service to check on the unemploy-
ment position. pis findings: No jobs for
carpenters ; no jobs for bricklayers. That
sounds rather gpndusive, but of course
all building jobs don’t come from the
C.E.S. Quite a number of tradesmen get
their jobs through studying the classified
ads. in the ‘‘S. M- Herald.” If the reporter
had looked in the “Positions Vacant”
columns in Saturday’s “Herald” he would
have found at least 14 vacancies for brick-
layers and builders’ laborers, several of
them ip the plural, and a dozen for
carpenters, again several in the plural.
Painters, plasterers and plumbers were
required for 30 jobs.
The Victorian Country party seems to
think that changing its braces will help
it keep its pants up.
Nicklin, leader of the Queensland
Opposition, summed up the matter
pretty well when he told a C.P. confer-
ence: “The Commonwealth Government
gets all the blame for taxes ; the State
Governments claim all the credit for
spending them.”
Treasurer Fadden put it in somewhat
similar terms:
The States want sovereign rights, but they
put the emphasis on the word sovereign.
We will give them the facilities to collect
their own unpopular taxes, which we have
done on their behalf without any thanks
in recent years. They have been nothing
other than beneficiaries of our policy and
tally-clerks in regard to its expenditure.
S’Artie’s meaning is clear, but not many
tally-clerks have the free hand with the
boss’s money'that the State Governments
have had.
Sydney Water Board has announced
that the new flood in the Nepean will
delay the completion of Warragamba
dam for a month. So that instead of tak-
ing another 12 years it will take 12 years
and one month—if there are no more
floods.
The “wages and hours” case was due
to begin in the Arbitration Court yester-
day. The employers’ representatives are
asking for:
(1) Reductions in basic wage, ranging up
to £2 9s. a' week,
(2) Reduction in female wage to 60 p.c.
of male rate (now 75 p.c.),
(3) Abandonment of quarterly adjust-
ments (a periodic review to be substituted),
(4) A 44-hour week.
On Saturday it was announced that the
first move would be an employers’
application for a freezing of the basic
wage for nine months by the suspension
of the November and February adjust-
ments. Almost simultaneously with this
announcement came an application by
the metal-trades unions for an increase
of £1 3s. in the basic wage, of which
they asked that 10s. should be granted at
once to offset declining money-values.
A.C.T.U. president Monk’s comment on
this “hair-of-the-dog” application was
that it had been made without his know-
ledge and that all he knew about it was
what he had read in the newspapers.
The Persian Shah has agreed to send
his mother, sister and brother abroad in
an effort to maintain domestic peace.
These fortunate potentates!
Footnote to the Cahill-Menzies power-
plant dollar-argument:
On July 26 the Prime Minister and the N. S.
Wales Premier had a discussion as a result ot
which it was agreed that a representative of
the Commonwealth Dollar Committee would
confer with Electricity Commissioner Conde on
the matter of providing finance for buying
American plant, the Premier having told the
P.M. of his “not altogether happy experiences
in getting English equipment into production”
and having mentioned an offer of American
equipment which, if not taken up quickly,
would lapse. The Prime Minister later explained
that his statement criticising the Premier’s
remarks on this matter had been authorised
before the July 26 talks but, through “a mis-
adventure,” it had not been published until
after that meeting. He phoned his apologies
to the Premier. Not to be outdone in politeness,
the Premier said that when he read the offend-
ing statement he had “rightly concluded that
it bad been made before our discussions.”
A little more of,such sweet-reasonable-
ness and Australian politics would be-
come almost unrecognisable.
Gambling must now be the biggest “in-
dustry” in New South Wales, judging by
the dividend it pays the State Govern-
ment. In the year ended on June 30 last
Cahill and Co. raked in £5,086,470 from
this source, made up as under:
Tax on racing-clubs, bookmakers
and bets £994,999
Totalisator tax .. .. .. 839,443
Greyhound-racing tax .. .. 49,233
State Lottery profits .. .. 3,202,795
Figures for all four items were up con-
siderably on the previous year, the total
increase being £832,633.
Betting and booze are often associated
in the minds of reformers, but the Taxa-
tion Commissioner likes ’em kept apart.
That is why, when he discovered that
George Martin, of Toowoomba, had been
fined for selling wine at blackmarket
prices he had another look at his taxa-
tion returns for 1944-46, which included
alleged betting wins (non-taxable) of
£8928. Sequel is a High Court decision
that the item is taxable. In dismissing
Martin’s appeal Webb, J., said he would
not accept his evidence about the extent
of his dealings in liquor. He considered
it more likely than not that much of the
income which Martin attributed to betting
was the proceeds of sales of liquor beyond
his quotas.
This year’s Olympic Games are said
to have cost Finland £4,000,000. If Vic-
toria is still in doubt about finance for
its 1956 commitment, why not put it
on the “sports” who keep Randwick,
Flemington and ail those other race-
courses going for the wherewithal? If
any “industry” can stand a little more
taxation surely it is the betting business.
This cuts so sharply across the policy
of the Communist-led Miners’ Federa-
tion that it’s worth recording: A Darling
Downs (Q.) colliery stopped work for a
day in sympathy with a workmate whose
brother had been killed on active service
in Korea.
McDonald, of Victoria, is to present
his Budget on August 19 ; his estimated
deficit is said to be £lO million. It is
further said that the Spring-street farmers
are considering ways of getting in more
money to “bridge the gap.” A start has
been made with increases of 35 p.c, in
rail-freights and 25 p.c. in rail-fares.
Higher water-charges and stamp-duties
are forecast. So far, nobody has forecast
any attempt to “bridge the gap*, by cut-
ting the costs of government. That will
never be done voluntarily by Australian
Governments,
The Victorian Railways chiefs estimate
that increased fares will mean an addi-
tional £7,850,000 for their coffers, appar-
ently imagining that firstclassers will
continue to be firstclassers. They won’t:
they’ll try to get into the already over-
crowded seconds. During the war, when
thousands of girls, as well as young men,
got well-paid jobs, there was a shift from
the second to the first. Then, as the cost
of living rose, a movement began in the
opposite direction. The obvious solution
is the abolition of the classes, as other
States have done. The decline in expenses
would offset the loss of revenue. The
snobbish element in the business could
be overcome by calling all carriages first
on the example of the Tiv. manager who,
when a leading lady protested that she
should have No. 1 dressing-room instead
of another leading-lady, altered the “2”
on her room to “1.”
The law of libel often weighs heavily
on newspapers, but the managing-director
of London’s “Daily Mirror” could have
put this a little more tactfully;
We have two whole-time barristers and
two part-time ones who scrutinise all copy
before publication, but in spite of taking
every reasonable precaution we incur
damages for libel
When I say that the law of libel is costly
I do not refer only to the legal and other
costs, but to the fact that too often the
damages awarded by the courts bear no
relation to the actual damage done to the
plaintiff, nor as the law stands need they.
This particularly applies when the so-called
libel is unintentional.
“Unintentional” presumably means un-
detected by the staff of two full-time and
two part-time barristers who read all
copy.
Long-distance road-hauliers set out to
push a wheelbarrow from Sydney to Mel-
bourne by road. It was a stunt to draw
public attention to penal taxation and
other injustices inflicted oh them by
railway-minded Governments, The day
they set out from Sydney they consigned
a chair to Melbourne by rail. The barrow
arrived in Melbourne last Saturday.
When this was printed agitated Ministers
for Railways in N.S.W. and Victoria were
anxiously seeking the chair, which hadn’t
arrived, and though N.S.W. Minister
Sheahan sought to dismiss the whole
thing as a “stunt,” it isn’t as easy as that.
The joke is plainly on the railways.
Beer in bottles:—
Chief interest' in last week’s session of the
royal commission on liquor was the cross-
examination of Toohey’s general-manager, Eric
Callaway, on the circumstances surrounding the
allocation of a bottled-beer quota to Daniel
Collins of the Sydney Liquor Service and the
growth of the quota from 125 dozen a week
in 1946 to 510 dozen a week in 1951. Callaway
said the brewery had been selling beer direct
to the public in small quantities and that when
his former sales-manager Lyons told him of a
suggestion made by Collins they had agreed
that “it might be preferable to remove the
business from the brewery premises as it
involved a lot of detailed work and delivery
difficulties” —the lane was often “cluttered up”
with vehicles. So far as he knew Collins had
had no previous experience of the liquor trade.
The price charged to Collins was the wholesale
price. Asked whether it was not a fact that
Collins had received preferential treatment over
other liquor merchants, Callaway admitted that
that was, so. He did not know the full details
of the arrangement with Collins. Kain, his
present sales-manager, now in England, would
know. Mr. Justice Maxwell said he would like
to question Kain, but that it was for Toohey’s
to decide whether he should be flown back for
that purpose. His Honor said: “If I were the
one concerned I would have Kain back here
whatever the cost. If Toohey’s could give up
the retail margin of profit on the beer now
sold by Sydney Liquor Service the cost of the
air fare is nothing.” Mr. Reynolds, Q.C., on
behalf of Toohey’s, undertook to have Kain at
the commission before its public sittings finished.


/^toUSh
ar * r
r[f-reR last /far 5
HOUQAY at AGAIN WF FFFT THAT
ThF <XP fAMIUAR. fACBS U)£RB SBCOMING Too fAMIU AR
So THIS ySAR. LV£ THOUGHT UJS
MIGHT TAK& AM A/R. TRJP
ro Auca Springs ~—" *
OR. GO GkuhQt
ar 3offalo
TAKS AM
ISLANP CRUISE
loaf at Surfers’ ParapigU
GO OAPPUN& POiVN.
Th£ MuRRA)/
/GUEST HOUSt
VO 'THAT' TRiP -Tcd
Arthor_—
ViGiV THB £?arrj B'R, {ZBBB^
6uT" y llsl TH£ VVS"
RNI SHBP UP AT AGAIN
AMONG THe Pt-P FAMIMAR .
“REGULARS.”


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
1
m
-•
iji'-e
ter
BANKING like Transport, has seen
great changes since this Bank was
founded.
To day —as for 117 years the
Bank meets the needs of the times.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
of every type
and size
Famous for man/ /ears as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins,
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed. *
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
ĩ
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [{J;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
new stiipmi
OF THE FAMOUS SWISS
am
£l2/17/6 /-j
i I
With
i,eat her
Band
Stainless
Steel Band
19/6 extra
A streamlined and accurate timekeeper built to comply
with the American Government specifications. In a
handsome imported stainless case, it features WATER-
PROOF . . . INCABLOC SHOCKPROOF . . . NON-
MAGNETIC . . . HEAT AND COLD RESISTANT . . .
UNBREAKABLE CRYSTAL ... 17 JEWEL SWISS
LEVER MOVEMENT . . . SWEEP SECOND HAND . . .
Written Guarantee.
MAIL
ORDERS
REGISTERED
POST FREE
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING ST., SYDNEY
Please forward by registered mail, a Felca “Magnificent >J
for which I enclose
NAME
ADDRESS
Bui.
ī
Business. Rollery. Etc.
RECOVERY STILL DEPENDS ON OUTPUT.
Whatever Australia’s present
industrial and economic diffi-
culties, let it be realised once and
for all that a vomiting of bank
credit over the continent will not
solve any problem. Instead it
will create many new ones, as
well as aggravating those which
now exist.
Australia has to get down to
fundamentals again, after a
period of 13 years of extra-
ordinary living conditions. Dur-
ing those years, following the
paralytic stroke of a long and
costly war, we had lend-lease aid,
we had a large dollar income
from U.S. troops, we had a post-
war market for all the goods we
cbuld produce, we had a post-
war price for wool (topped off
by Korean war demand) averag-
ing 10 times the pre-war price,
we had (and still have) a large
world market for nearly all the
foodstuffs we can produce, we
had over-employment, and we
had a reserve of inherited capital
assets which we have tended to
wear out and squander without
replacement during and since the
war.
In conditions ‘ amazingly
mixed, misleading and confusir g,
the mind of many people has
tended to be distracted from
economic and social realities.
Many of our wage-earners in the
under-thirty class have never
known what rational industrial
conditions are. True, it may be
said that the fact that we had
10 p.c. or so of unemployment
in the period immediately preced-
ing the war was not “rational.”
That may be admitted. But it is
certainly true that in 1938-39
money, wages and productivity
had a great deal more relation-
ship with each other than they
have today.
Because of the wastage caused
by war, because of increasing
population, because of the pre-
mature introduction of the 40-
hour week, because of lower out-
put per man per working hour,
and because of the higher level
of consumer demand, the work-
ing assets of Australia have, in
many directions, fallen into
decrepitude since 1939. And
there is no doubt whatever that
we need to rehabilitate these
assets as well as add many others
to our national productive
inventory.
There is, as has been reiterated
again and again in these pages, a
vast amount of urgent construc-
tion work, public as well as
private, awaiting to be done in
Australia. But it will not be
done merely by issuing bank
credit and seeing that everyone
is contentedly employed in a job
or engaged in profitable business
regardless of what the effect on
national productivity turns out
to be.
Many economists of pro-
digious academic learning but
little acquaintanceship with the
facts of economic life are
inclined to poopooh the idea, but
credit —bank credit, Treasury-
bill finance, etc. —is essentially
“time to pay,” the same as credit
from the grocer or the, news-
agent. Whenever it is regarded
as anything more subtle or
mysterious it is potent with
inflation and other nationally
disrupting factors.
Credit-expansion being debt-
expansion, sober and enlightened
non-political planning should
precede the use of any kind of
credit to finance “public works”
or anything else of the kind. If
you create debt you should create
nationally-required assets. Public
works that are failures, although
their failure may for long be
concealed from all but prying
eyes in complex Government
accounts, eventually become a
public burden and a danger to
all credit-creation, investment
confidence and employment.
Most public works should at
some stage be self-supporting.
An example of successful Gov-
ernment investment was the case
of Amalgamated Wireless. Un-
successful enterprise was exempli-
fied by Cockatoo Dock under
Government management. And
a recent, more shocking example
of Government failure to plan
thoroughly and achieve its objec-
tive is the case *bf the Blacktown
tileworks, recently publicly
admitted to be a failure by the
N. S. Wales Government.
There is no question at
present, however, that this
country needs not only many
more public works, but a con-
siderable expansion of its
private-enterprise undertakings
as well. All have to be properly
planned, and, in view of the
competition that would again be
created for manpower and
materials, all need to be carried
out efficiently and at a minimum
of cost. (We cannot afford to
waste manpower, materials or
money.)
Though consumer demand for
most things now is slack, the fact
is that production in the past has
been inadequate. A .greater,
lower-cost output of essential
“They're special—with peg-bag hanger, fifteen-bob.”
goods is necessary to get trade
flowing again. We are suffering
from the after-effects of a pro-
duction slump that can only be
cured by establishing a basis of
more efficient production. That
calls for better (non-political)
planning at the top, and for a
far greater effort by wage-
earners, who, in many essential
industries (such as on the
wharves), have put up a very bad
show for 10 years.
With wage-earners doing a fair
day’s work for a fair day’s pay
again, and with national works
and industrial expansion so
planned as to meet a legitimate
public demand (for which the
public is prepared to pay, in
taxation or directly), it will be
found that development and
employment will grow out of
development and employment.
We may need assistance from
outside —almost sure to. But
with our economic affairs in such
a condition that we can produce
abundantly at reasonable cost
we should be able, through an
export surplus, to meet the cost
of servicing any outside “time
to pay”—credit —of which we
may have availed ourselves. That
is something that has to be
allowed for in all external
borrowing—subsequent capacity
to pay interest and repay
principal.
Many complications have set
in since Australia was stricken
by World War 11, mainly arising
from political coddling and
Communist infection. We have
lost many post-war advantages
simply because we have not been
doing a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay. We can’t afford
to play around with make-
believe any longer, or to listen
to the self-interested propaganda
of sanctimonious humbugs.
“Darktown” Tile Brigade
In its issue of July 23 The
Bulletin exposed the shocking
state of affairs that existed at the
N. S. Wales Government tile-
works at Blacktown (N.S.W.),
where, in spite of a capitalisa-
tion now nearly as much as that
of Wunderlich, Ltd. (a success-
ful and highly efficient example
of private enterprise in the tile
industry), most of the tile output
was unfit for use, and losses on
production were colossal. On
Thursday of last week J. B. Ren-
shaw, the Minister who dropped
the embarrassing Lands port-
folio to take over Public Works
when John Joseph Cahill was
elevated to the Premiership, ad-
mitted that the State tileworks
may have to close. He blamed
“shortage of loan funds and a
diminishing market for our
product.”
The plain truth is that the pro-
ject was half-baked from the
start, and an example of the
supreme conceit and impudence
of elected persons, more particu-
larly Socialists. Thirteen months
ago it was estimated that the full
capital cost of these works would
be £660,000. A large propor-
tion of this, like so much other
expenditure by the N. S. Wales
Socialist Government out of
loan and other funds, has gone
completely down the drain.
The new bank-interest rates,
which expressed themselves most
pungently in an increase of \ p.c.
(to 5 p.c.) in the maximum over-
draft rate, had little effect on
a quiet' sharemarket last week.
Following the setback that came
with the basic-wage increase
there has been very little activity
on ’Change, what was lost one
day probably being picked up
the next. In a market that
seemed bound to be quiet until
the Budget terms were known
the rights of Masonite at around
16s. appeared to have special
merit.
* * * *
Australasian Catholic Assur-
ance (the A.C.A.) wrote
£1,200,000 of new assurances in
its Ordinary life section during
the year to June 30. This is
almost twice as much as in any
previous year. Considering the
peculiar circumstances of infla-
tion and credit-restriction that
prevailed during the period it
was a good effort. The A.C.A.
started off in 1921, and is one of
the very few Australian life
offices formed since World War
I that have survived.


THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under
STATE GUARANTEE,
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee,
Look for this Sign ... it's your guarantee of.. -
4hppy ntffaimcj
ff
bb|3
mSP
ATLANTIC
yuißißinr©R| IttJWI
: 11 pi
;
X ..X.J
■
* J
m
<4 'iSSsT.,
\\ gfesS'Xi!
c
M
Wherever you go on any highway look
for the Atlantic Oval. It’s your
assurance of. top quality service, and
top quality products, backed by the
world’s oldest and largest refiners.
ATLANTIC —flash— ATLANTIC MOTOR OH @) PARADYNE
FUEL
IMPROVER
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The influence of the trade-
unions upon our modern State
is unquestionably an expanding
one. Both the T.U.C. and the
Labor party, inextricably linked
in mutual interdependence, have
grown from pressure-groups into
potent forces of government in
the space of a few years. Thanks
to a not-inconsiderable rake-off
from the w T eekly dues which the
workers set aside for their better-
ment, the party machine enjoys
real wealth by way of regular,
assured income.
Topical interest has been
touched off by the publication
of a book (The Government of
British Trade-unions : Allen and
Unwin). The author, Joseph
Goldstein, came to England
from America five years ago as
a research student, and was
allowed to join our largest union,
the Transport and General
Workers’ (1,350,000 members, of
whom 830,000 are affiliated to
the Labor party). His “sample”
statistics perhaps lack actuarial
soundness, and his perspective is
too academic for an English
working community, which may
well be shrewder than it seems.
However desirable it may be for
workers to take part in union
activities, their lack of interest
is rather unfairly put down to
apathy.
What is alarming is the degree
of irregularity in the conduct
of union affairs. There is no-
thing new in the revelation that
Communists hold the key offices,
with sympathisers or stooges on
the committees. But it comes
as a surprise to most people to
read of faked ballots (one suc-
ceeded in producing a vote of
104 p.c.), of a “clean-up” which
resulted in the election of the
same petty oligarchy who merely
announced that they had ceased
to be Communists, and of the
ridiculous ease with which a
score or so of militants can
control a branch of 1000
members.
Ding-dong Dean
That sorry jack-in-the-box, the
Dean of Canterbury, has enjoyed
a flash of notoriety far and
away in excess of any of
his previous misadventures. But
to Englishmen (who, after all,
have to bear the brunt of the
embarrassment he occasions)
the air at least is cleared. We
know where we are with him.
The dignity, scrupulousness
and objectivity of the Archbishop
of Canterbury’s statement in
the House of Lords is respected
as a comprehensive summing-up.
If underlines what has been ex-
pressed before with virtual
unanimity by all responsible
authorities: there is no way of
getting rid of this “public
nuisance” that will not conflict
with the highest principles of
_ _ TT ,
Church and State. Dr. Hewlett
Johnson is not technically guilty
of heresy; there is no case, as
yet, for conviction in the civil
courts of treason or felony ; and
the Clergy Retirement Act has a
clause forbidding retirement on
political grounds.
All that can be done, we are
told, is to send him to Coventry,
“jf the Press could lose interest
j n the Dean,” said the Arch-
bishop, “everybody else would
soon do likewise.” But the
Press which most interests the
Dean is not that which uses
English as its language.
The lay mind is profoundly
disturbed that a high dignitary
G f the Established Church
can sail so close to the
w ind and yet avoid any serious
check to his perilous course. It
i s a mazed that the Dean can
virtually masquerade as Arch-
bishop for the propaganda
machine of a foreign Power and
can declare he has fulfilled the
wishes of the Archbishop when
no such instruction has, in fact,
been given.
Mr, Churchill’s peremptory
refusal to allow a tribunal to
look into the Dean’s activities,
on the grounds that it would
“invest them with an importance
they do not possess” also has its
critics. They see Dr. Johnson
less as a foolish crank, a “clown
in gaiters,” than as a top-line
torchbearer of Communism.
But the latest development--
his using the pulpit of Canter-
bury Cathedral to thump out the
germ-war accusations —surpasses
all. A strong movement is
afoot to rouse into action a
public opinion that is already
testy and inflamed.
Shavers’ Shivers
Henry James, who never got
over his failures in the theatre
(he referred to its practice as
“the unholy trade”), is currently
a top box-office attraction. “The
Heiress,” throbbing with con-
flict and tense psychological in-
sight, might indeed have been
specially written for the present-
day stage. Now it is that classic
among spine - shiverers, The
Turn of the Screw, which has
London audiences gasping and
shuddering at Her Majesty’s
Theatre.
The title —“The Innocents” —
alone is ill-fitting. These two
little children, a boy of 12 and
a girl of eight, are forward and
“old-fashioned” in ways that
bear scant relation to their
period-dress (English country-
house, 1880). No subtleties of
psychological tug-of-war give
weight to, the drama; and no
deeply-conceived characters give
it depth. The play’s powerful
appeal, amounting at times to
hypnosis, is entirely theatrical.
William Archibald’s adapta-
tion is perhaps the least facile
of the subtly professional aids.
He requires eight scenes, of
Which two are subdivided by
the ticking of a clock, to set out
the action. The Jamesian
dialogue, like most “literary”
speech on the stage, untrippingly
retards the pace. Yet a cast of
only four, of whom two are
children, manages to hold an
audience of hardened playgoers
in anxious attention through two
hours of wordy near-nonsense.
Such is the power—the indefin-
able magic—of the theatre.
The - arch-sorcerer is Peter
Glenville, whose production is
at once arresting, eerie and un-
canny. He has also astonished
the town by his achievements
with the children. Twelve-year-
old Carol Wolveridge is a
simpering, affected doll of eight,
with a taste for the grotesque,
while 14-year-old Jeremy Spenser
has a comprehensive technique,
polished in style and precise in
delineation, enough to bring
envy to many a mature adult.
Real acting, not imperson-
ation. Barbara Everest, as the
old retainer, is just able to
smooth over the creases in a
part that is almost co-author, by
virtue of its Dr. Watson-like
responsibilities. Flora Robson,
that pastmistress of the tor-
mented and unpleasant, is inade-
quately served by her role —the
fly-into-the-parlor governess. Her
art oftentimes exceeds the part.
Two ghosts, major and minor, *
make up the cast and underline
the shivers. Their demoniac in-
fluence is enhanced by Jo Miel-
ziner’s decor and lighting.
But, for spooky wriggles and
curdling suspense, it is exclu-
sively the children’s hour.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Cauboy”: Melbourne subscription
concertgoers are screaming because
Castro, the Argentinian conductor,
repeated a programme given in the
“Red” series in the “Blue” one. As
some of the thirstiest music-lovers are
subscribers to both the Blues and the
Reds they bitterly protested at having to
listen to Stravinsky’s “Rite of Spring”
twice, although they have had to wait 40
years for the now-famous opus to be
given its first performance in the most
musical city in Australia. For no apparent
reason this reminds me of a friend whose
“I’m not terribly keen on having a lot of children, are you, Claude ?”
wife, a whale for culture, took him on a
European tour. Asked if he had visited
Rome, he said: “I don’t know—my wife
buys the tickets.”
* * * *
“Macnell”: There seems to have been
a prescient, if unconscious, assessment of
the worth of ex-King Farouk in the
attitude of the ship’s company of cruiser
Australia as far back as 1936. Australia
was at anchor with the grey mass of the
British Mediterranean Fleet in Alexandria
when a liner bearing young Farouk from
England to his new throne steamed down
the Fleet lines. Lower-deck was cleared
aboard all ships, and as the liner with its
Royal passenger passed each British
battleship and cruiser he was dutifully
cheered by the sailors lined-up along the
guard-rails, their white caps swinging in
a uniform mass of color with each
“hurrah.” Came Australia’s turn. Most
of the men who lined her rails were sons
of those who had had experience of
Gyppoland, and who had, no doubt,
passed their opinion of it on. Added to
that, they had themselves been based in
Egypt for nine months. The commander
stood on B-turret, shouted a “Stand-by,”
then roared through his megaphone;
“Three cheers for the King of Egypt!”
The caps waved, all right, in disciplined
cadence —but a sailor’s vocal chords are
something not even the Navy can clis
cipline, when required to make a noise
instead of stifling it. The accompanying
“cheer” might have reached to the ship’s
jackstaff. A tattooed three-badgeman
grunted: “The day I cheer for the adjec-
tival King of the Gyppos will be the
adjectival day!” He was the unofficial
spokesman for 500 Australians.
* * * $
“Becks”: Discussion of vocational
guidance in “The Other Fellow’s Mind”
set me wondering. How does the
vocational-guidance expert justify his
occupancy of his own post? Does he
periodically submit himself ic his own
tests to make sure that that is the job
for which the is fitted above all others?
And what about new recruits to his staff
—are they selected as a result of exhaus-
tive tests or does he merely have to make
do with cadets wished upon him from a
civil-service recruitment-pool? Finally,
who guided the original vocational-
guidance man? I feel these questions
demand an answer, as,l can think of no
more unhappy misfit than a maladjusted
vocational-guidance expert.
* * * *
“Coongan”: I mentioned the com-
parison between the human anatomy and
the works of a motor-car (B. 23/7/’52) to
a doctor friend, and he was inclined t'o
agree with “Ceg” that the human works
are simpler than those of the internal-
qpmbustion engine. “I doubt it,” I said.
“There are tim%s when my old bomb
turns cranky and won’t start, and a smart
shake or a good kick in the guts seems
to fix it,” The doc. smiled. “If only I
were game to administer it, that very
treatment would cure nearly half of my
patients.”
* * * *
“Zake”: The new comic-strip with
which Sydney “Sun” is nobly endeavoring
to lift the intellectual standard of its
readers has some characters that collec-
tively ring a distant bell. There are the
stern head of Merryville College, the three
heroes, the fat boy and the school cad.
No, their names are not Wharton,
Nugent, Cherry, Billy Bunter and
Ponsonby, though the Head initially acts
somewhat as would have acted the Head
of Greyfriars of the old “Magnet” of our
extreme youth. Yet if the comic-strip
isn’t exactly wildly comical or even excit-
ing, it is guaranteed, at least in one aspect
to keep the reader guessing. For instance,
one of the triumvirate exclaims: “A
dance whacko!” And you are
immediately assured that the collegiates
can only be dinkum Aussies. But this
assurance is rocked a few inches down
when the school cad, who looks about 45
snarls “I’ll fix the rotters!” Then comes
“Golly, is she beaut.! ” And you
immediately look, in vain, for a gum-tree
But “You cads!” makes it (temp.) odds-
on that the college is set in the land of
bloaters, woodbines and football-pools,
“Oh, you are a one, Perce,” and “You
beast!” lend confirmation, but the illusion
is shattered again when the cad’s offsider
produces a copy of Sydney “Sun” to read
out about forged tenners. I’m confidently
waiting to hear one of the strange duo-
national schoolboys come out with:
“Strike me roan! The jolly old Head
can’t take a jape, what!”
* * * *
“Miss Tout”: She was a learner-driver,
eyes fixed resolutely ahead and hands
locked in a death-grip on the wheel while
her car crept cautiously along the open
road at about 15 m.p.h. A quick glimpse
in the rear-vision mirror showed that
traffic was banking up in a long queue
behind her, but as there was plenty of
“Smashing CALENDAR, what!”
room for it to pass, she stuck grimly to
her 15 m.p.h. After another five miles
she decided nervously that the big capital
“L” for learner on the back of her car
had go intimidated the following drivers
that none of them was game to pass, so
she gave a strictly regulation “stop” signal
and pulled into the side of the road. She
swears there was a. faint smile on the
face of the driver of the hearse as the
funeral procession, which she had been
leading for the last 10 miles, speeded up
to 20 m.p.h.
* * * ♦
“Gullybird”: A contributor in last
week’s Bulletin took the paper to task
for “wasting its Wimbles” on Doc. Evatt.
I don’t know whether the criticism was
fair or otherwise, but what a beautifully
alliterative description of unproductive
effort! Just try it and savor the way it
rolls off the tongue. In less than a week
it has become part of our domestic
terminology, and I prophesy that “Ah, y’re
wastin’ y’r Wimbles” will become as
common as “Git orf me back.” I whole-
heartedly commend the phrase to
students of Australian slang, so that its
precise origin and meaning may be
recorded for posterity.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: I’m forced to admire the
ingenuity, if not the sportsmanship, with
which some of our Press representatives
at the Games find “the reason” whenever
another competitor proves superior to
one of our own. But the explanation that
a couple of Australian boxers were not
aware of the rules when they were
defeated was not up to standard. It
reminded me of the time when a
middleweight champion of Australia
was asked to referee a local novice
tournament. At the last moment
one of the contestants objected, on the
ground that his opponent had trained at
the champion’s gym. Champ, did not dis-
guise the fact, but was not pleased at the
insinuation that the circumstance would
warp his sense of fair play. The novice
remained adamant, and demanded that
two judges be appointed as a check on
the referee. “All right,” agreed the
angered champion, “you can have your
two judges. But,” he added ominously,
“all they’ll have to do is check that I
don’t count ten too fast.” He counted
the 10 in the third round—slowly.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: The statistic life of Mr.
and Mrs. Phop, as recorded by “Docas”
(3. 2/7/’52), led me to hunt up a cutting
from an old periodical relating to the
demise of a number of Mr, Phop’s English
forefathers in the year 1770. There were
several cases of death in infancy, but
they were apparently less appalling than
those of two children listed as “Died
unchrisomed.” Some of the adult deaths
were from recognisable causes, such as
“from the stone,” “griping of the guts,”
“apoplexy” and “the fever,” but the
death which wins my money for its
simple and picturesque descriptiveness is
covered by a single word. It simply says
“Bursten.”
“Sebak”: I read “Loulalo’s” par. (B.
16/7/’52) to a blind acquaintance and
found him in complete agreement that an
obstacle ahead can be “felt” by the
sightless. His addendum: “The nearest
I can get to explain it is ‘a shadow.’ If a
car should be parked at the spot where I
normally cross the street I would know
there was something in my way, although
I could only guess what. And the obstacle
need not be vertical. I was in the habit
of walking across an open paddock on
my way to the station ; one day I knew
there was something strange on the track.
It was something inanimate. I walked
around it. Somebody was coming behind,
so I listened. He walked over it —a sheet
of paper. Nowadays I’m not as sure as
I used to be when I was younger —my
hearing isn’t so good, and the warning-
sense is directly connected with hearing.
Blind people who go deaf lose the sense,
and deaf blind people never develop it.”
“Archie Kay”: What a blind person
“feels” —sighted people can feel it to a
lesser degree—is the reflection from the
obstacle of the sounds of his own move-
ments. He interprets this reflected sound
in terms of the closeness of the obstacle.
He’d be fooled in a room with sound-
absorbent surfaces! The bat employs
a similar obstacle-warning system. He,
too, is blind, but emits a supersonic note
while flying. An obstacle reflects the note,
the bat detects the changed condition and
automatically takes “evasive action.” It
is not far from here to radar. In fact,
there has been developed a simple form
of sound-radar to provide a blind person
with a more quantitative assessment of
the distance and position of obstacles
around him,
♦ * * *
“Sturmer”: A friend left his football
season-ticket in a suit sent to the cleaners’;
the suit came back but the ticket didn’t.
He inquired at the cleaners’, they gave
him the name and address of a man they
employed to search the pockets of all
garments sent in. The searcher had found
the ticket, but was most reluctant to part
with it; he’d already used it once, and
was looking forward to a free season.
It makes me wonder what the cleaning
firm pays him for. Possibly they don’t;
perhaps he pays them for the right to
search.
A DIRGE.
“With the 400 metres women’s relay race at the
Olympic Games in hand, the last runner, Marjorie
Jackson, dropped the baton as Winsome Orippa
handed it ( to her.”
Women have always been addicted to changes
of mind
When considering accepting a lover, or putting
another hat on,
So you’d think their technique would be natural,
smooth and streamlined
When it came to so simple a matter as
changing a baton.
Long ago, a woman was responsible for a
record Fall—
No modern *Eve could hope to improve on
that one*;
So there’s nothing original, sinful, or pleasur-
able, at all —
No record at all—to be gained by just drop-
ping a baton.
Golden apples were the cause why Atalanta
stumbled;
A husband was part of the bribe—and only
a race to rat on;
It wasn’t for nothing that muscular glamor-
girl fumbled—
Today, only a Rockefeller or Johnnie Ray
could make her drop -her baton.
This year, Mrs. Blankers-Koen was visited with'
carbuncles
In a place girls sometimes get an encouraging
pat on;
She dropped her bundle—yes; but here is what
really runkles —
She didn’t negligently and for no special
reason drop her baton.
In Australia recently the rain hasn’t known
when to stop;
Some farms haven’t enough ground left for
farmers to feed a gnat on;
But Inigo Jones himself doesn’t recollect such a
heavy drop
As the drop when Winsome and Marjorie
dropped the baton.
However, they’re only women, and there’s no
good object
To be served by two nice gilds being per-
manently sat on;
So let us drop a tear and, as one might say,
the sobject
Of the time when Winsome and Marjorie
dropped the baton.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Helldud”: Unlike Melbourne’s,
Sydney’s cable-trams had a comparatively
short lease of life. Those of my vintage
retain cherished memories of the jugger-
nauts that used to ply between the foot
of King - street and Ocean - street,
Woollahra, around the turn of the
century. Except for the steam-trams
which passed along Elizabeth-street bound
for the eastern suburbs, Newtown and
Leichhardt the cables had a clear run
and they were very popular (the
foot of King-street was the terminal
for ferries to Parramatta, Pyrmont and
Annandale). Sydney’s second cable-
“I think you can stop Waving now , Auntie.”
tram route went from Milson’s Point
to the top of the hill at the North
Sydney Oval, where the power-house
stood and the huge hauling-wheel was
housed. The building is now tenanted by
a theatre and a car showroom. A very
well-known identity was Blind Billy, a
very capable organist who rendered sacred
numbers on his harmonium at the
entrance of Milson’s Point Arcade. Billy
r r r .i r , a
played the femes m and away, and his
timing of incoming boats was uncanny;
he would commence to play only a second
or two before the sound of the reversing
engines became audible. Billy swayed
back and forth ceaselessly from 8 a.m.
until dark whether playing or idle; keen
observers declared that he knew exactly
how many body movements were
executed between the arrival of the
steamers.
“F.G.S.”: “Macnell” has farewelled
many fine R.A.N. ships, but I fancy the
old torpedo-boats Lonsdale and Nepean
would be a little before his time. As a
boy at Queenscliff (Vic.) I used to see
these little craft; from memory they were
. nAr , « -> ■»
about 80ft. or 90ft. long and no more
than 10ft. or so beam or, more correctly,
diameter. Cigar-shaped, they were more
under than on the water in anything but
a flat calm. After the 1914-18 scrap a
fisherman bought them from the Sub-
marine Mining Depot at Swan Island,
towed them to Queenscliff and tried to
, , r , , e „
make one serviceable craft out of the two.
There were just the bare hulls. He found
die thin steel too tough to work, SO even-
tual‘y buil . , - in th s ( arts wi * h,eav.y-
gauge galvanised flat-iron. Next he
installed two 100 h.p. petrol-engines. The
vessel was launched, and the only way a
crew could be obtained for a trial trip
was by taking a dinghy in tow ; a number
of young fisher lads then entered in the
fun. It was expected that the galvanised-
would company with e the rest G f
the hull, but it hung together somehow
and the owner headed it up the Bay to
carr y potatoes from Portarlington to Mel-
bourne. First trip had an inglorious
ending. The vessel foundered and lost all
its cargo. Crew rescued. Exit Lonsdale-
Nenean
* * * *
“Bo”: It’s about time the learned com-
r ~ ■■ a „
pliers of the C-senes index, on the price-
fluctuations of yhich the quarterly basic-
wage adjustment is calculated, were told
some of the Facts of Life. For instance,
' . j A 2 . T . . , •
the index asserts that I need to buy six
handkerchiefs yearly. Has officialdom
no t yet heard of birthdays and
Christmases? It is solely to those well-
,t , T
established institutions that I owe my
present stock of about half a gross of
’kerchiefs, built up despite the many
dozen that I have discreetly given back to
different donors as counter-presents. I
haven’t bought one for 25 years. On
the other hand, my spouse is expected to
make her household mop last five years,
Our present mop has just celebrated its
second birthday, and is already down to
its few sad, last, grey hairs—or wisps of
soggy cotton—and, short of having it
half-soled and heeled at our own extra-
basic-wage expense, my helpmeet will be
condemned for the next three years to
wipe up the bathroom floor with the
iron ring on the end of the handle. The
index also arbitrarily provides for my
using two tons of firewood or coal per
annum. There being no provision for the
use of such means of heating in my
residence, I am compelled to use 44801 b.
of either recently-deceased or petrified
timber as a bonfire for the kids on
“cracker-night,” solely because I dislike
having to make a liar out of some
bureaucrat. My wife, too, is allowed
y eai 'ty> m addition to six pairs of silk
stockings, three patrs o£ the lisle vartety
1 hereby offer a framed price- evel to the
nearest statistician who can swear to hav-
ing seen his missus pull on a pair of lisles.
* * * *
“G’roper”: When I first struck the
yarn it wasn ’ t sir John Forrest spearing
t h e dragon on the sovereign (B. 2/7/’52),
but Sir George Shenton. Right up
to 1900 Sir George was the lead-
ing merchant of Perth, owner of
what is now the Economic Stores,
Shenton’s bought and sold just about
everything, and Sir George also
owned some tidy lumps of real estate ;
the Perth suburbs of Nedlands and May-
lands derived from the family estate —
Ned’s land, and May’s land, see? Com-
pared with the,Shentons the Forrest
family was of mushroom growth. The
original W. K. Shenton arrived with the
W.A. First Fleet in 1829, erected the first
flour-mill and printed, with a partner,
Chas. Macfaul, the first newspaper in the
colony. He perished at sea in 1842 when
the schooner Devonshire foundered in
the Murray Bight, off Mandurah, with a
loss of all hands save one. Headship of
“ Hussy!”
the family devolved on his younger
brother, George, who perished in pre-
cisely the same way, by the sinking of
the Lass of Geraldton in the Murray
Bight, in March, 18(57. During most of
the 19th century the Shentons held a sub-
stantial interest in the “West Australian,”
derived from the first Shenton’s share in
the “Perth Gazette,” which evolved into
the “West.” It was Dryblower Murphy,
poet and columnist of the Kalgoorlie
“Sun” and later of the Perth “Sunday
Times,” who introduced the Sir John
Forrest touch to the sandalwooder-
sovereign yarn.
* * * *
“Vingter”: The swamp-crossing adven-
tures of those Claremont (W.A.) young-
sters (B. 9/7/’52) remind me of the way
in which, as non-swimming juveniles, we
crossed, without the aid of any floating
device whatever, the Mary River at
Gympie (Q.). We did this by grasping a
stone as large as could be conveniently
carried against our bare bellies and simply
stalking across the submerged bed of the
stream. A deal of self-control was neces-
sary for the first time the feat was
attempted, but wavering types were nerved
for the ordeal by a punch on the jaw
from an elder mate ; subsequent crossings
were taken in the juvenile stride. Some
there were who, in their midstream panic,
jettisoned the lifesaving deadweight and
thereafter shot to the surface to complete
the crossing by dog-paddling, with which
art they had had no acquaintance a few
minutes earlier. Another thing we found
out was that, using a code of our own
devising, we could by clicking stones
together with sounds audible about 30yds.
manage a fairly efficient sub-surface
communication.
* « * *
“Orderly Room”: “Uncle Bill’s” pro-
spective recruit (B. 9/7/’52) recalled the
visit of a harassed pay-wallah to our
orderly-room in late ’4O. Private Ack
Willie was discovered to be possessed of
(a) a divorced .wife and one dependent
child, ( b ) a deserted wife and two de-
pendent children, and (c) a de facto wife
and one dependent child. Puzzle —what
to do with his allotment. Records indi-
cated that Pte. A.W. was at the time an
inmate of a strictly private section of the
base hospital, that his expected pay for
the'remainder of his Army life would be
Is. a day—accountable for by the study
in scarlet which he claimed as his pay-
book. Pay-office tossed the buck to the
C. 0., who tossed it to the adjutant, who
tossed it to the orderly-room sergeant.
That worthy, on examining the paybook/
found that Pte. A.W. had been in the
Army for a period of five months and 21
days. Reference to the A.M.R. and Os.
confirmed the fact that any soldier can
be discharged as “unlikely to become an
efficient soldier” within six months of his
enlistment. Co-operation from the
Records Office, Victoria Barracks and the
colonel gave Pte A.W. his discharge
within two days.
* * * *
“The Missus”: Swastikas (B.
23/7/’52)? When War II was about two
years old, someone drew attention to the
fact that Melbourne’s Commonwealth
Bank was traitorously sporting qnemy
insignia; at regular intervals down the
length of its banking-chamber floor there
were golden swastikas inset in the rubber-
flooring. The resultant storm of corres-
pondence in the daily papers was terrific
and blame was laid at the door of every-
one from King O’Malley to the Prime
Minister. Originally, no doubt, die
emblems were chosen as symbols of good
fortune and wealth. The bank might
have had a ready-made argument for their
retention in the fact that they were being
trodden underfoot by good Australians,
but it bowed meekly to the storm and
lino.-specialists were called in to replace
the Nazi emblem with something more
innocuous.
* * * *
. “Ariel”: A small notice in my copy
of the “Worker,” official qrgan of the
A.W.U., has me puzzled. It reads, “Make
the ‘Worker’ work overtime. When you
have read it, pass it on to a non-
subscriber.” Hang it all, wouldn’t that
be against all union principles? Why
should the paper do a tap more work
than it is paid to do?
* * * *
“Yair”; In the umbrella-shop, he asked
the price of new gamps but winced at
every answer. Then he asked how much
it would cost to re-cover an old frame
he had at home. The price of this rocked
him back on his heels again. Stalking
out with dignity, he snapped “That settles
it! Blast umbrellas; when it rains I’ll/
go by taxi.” Here’s hoping flag-fall costs
don’t rise so much he’s stumped again!
* * * *
“Ceg”: “Tom Trout’s” par. about
Portland stone (B. 9/7/’52) took me
back to Weymouth (Dorset) during World
War I. The “Isle” of Portland and Port-
land Bill had plenty of visits from Aus-
tralian troops, and I recall having lunch
one day at an inn where, from the dining-
room on the first-floor, diners could look
ever the wall of the jail and see the
convicts at work on huge blocks of the
famous stone. The isle is one in name
only, as the railway connects Portland
with Weymouth ; but both road and rail-
way have to cross bridges to reach it. In
the matter of bleakness of situation the
prison at Portland rivals Dartmoor. Port-
land stone was used in Buckingham
Palace, most of the Government offices
in Whitehall, the churches of Sir
Christopher Wren (including St. Paul’s)
and the bridges of Westminster and
Blackfriars. No reference to Portland is
complete without mention of Cheshil
Beach, or bank. Extending for about 10
miles, it is a narrow isthmus, for the most
part not more than 200yds. wide, com-
posed entirely of pebbles ranging from
3in, in diameter to gravel. As a
phenomenon of nature it ranks with
geological freaks such as the Giant’s
Causeway. The continual movement of
this huge mass of pebbles, caused by the
waves, makes a weird sound which is
never-ending as the beach faces the open
ocean. ,
A REAL NERVE-CURE.
“A doctor says that scratching induces both mental
and" physical relaxation, and is not indulged in
sufficiently.”
Nature has the answer ready:
Please observe, 1 beg, the neddy
In his paddock. You will often see him twitch
(Even though he’s well in clover)
If the flies around him hover.
The sight, too, of a plough may make him
itch.
But a theory he’ll be proving
If you wait. You’ll see him moving
To a sturdy post, on which he’ll rub his hide.
Watch his look grow beatific
Till he gets quite soporific.
Now, does he care if it isn’t dignified?
Better far equipped for scratching
(And for flea- and fly-dispatching)
Is Homo sapiens, master of the moke.
When he’s cursed with itch or fidgets
He has half a score of digits
Whose flexibility he can invoke.
So, if you are feeling nervous
You can do yourself a service:
Just hoist your trappings off, down to the
buff,
And put in quite a session.
Use your nails with some aggression—
You’ll get more comatose as you get rough.
You recall the relaxation
You’ve enjoyed, the quiet stagnation
As the barber’s droning shears went through
your thatch?
That was rather satisfying;
But how much more lullabying
Is an uninhibited, full-blooded scratch!
And the cove who’s copping curry
From his wife need never worry,
His agony at most need but be brief.
With a door-edge to his shoulder-
Blades, he can ignore his scolder —
That treatment guarantees a quick relief.
1/ to hard cutaneous friction
You develop an addiction,
Serenity you may in time expect.
Yet there’s one time, now, I fancy,
That some scratching can be chancy—
On the nerves may have a shattering effect.
And if this the doc. may question
He can try out a suggestion;
A simple test we’ll put up to him, then:
That the next time he is sending
Telegrams, he’ll be depending
For their writing on a real post-office pen.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The FROG
by HENRY G. LAMOND
THE scene is on Warenda
Station, in Western Queens-
land. Then Warenda was
the largest station in the
State, nearly 5000 square miles,
or, if correct figures are wanted,
4910 square miles. About 2000
square miles had been fenced for
sheep; the balance was open,
unfenced, a free range for the
40,000 well-bred Shorthorn cattle
to wander where they wished. In
addition, not mentioned in the
station-books, there was an un-
estimated number of brumbies
—wild horses —which could be
anything from a few hundred
to a couple of thousand.
A stock-camp was at Bean-
tree Hole, in Six-Mile Creek.
Twenty or thirty miles to the
north, where the creek had its
source, scattered hills, an off-
shoot of the Selwyn Ranges,
were known as Wild Horse
Mountains, Mount Datson, a
solitary sentinel, was that far
south. The Burke and Wills
Rivers were about twenty miles
westerly; the Hamilton
River about forty to the east.
Rolling downs, broken in places
by scattered patches of trees,
comprised the country between ;
there were odd creeks, few
waters; Mitchell-grass clothed
the downs ; spinifex grew in the
hills. There were no roads,
fences or other evidences of
man’s occupation.
As the horses were hobbled
when the camp was pitched,
Harry, the head-stockman,
fondled a blue-roan gelding.
“How’s Th’ Frog workin’
now?” the cook asked for the
sake of saying something.
“This blue fellow’s th’ makin’s
of th’ best camp-horse in th’
country,” Harry replied proudly,
nuzzling the blue fellow’s nose.
“Look at him,” he added, stand-
ing off so that he, too, could
admire The Frog. “He ain’t
quite six year yet; this is his
second season on camp ; he’s got
a lot to learn; but he’s quicker
on th’ uptake than most men
and all women. That horse’s
got brains. This fellow, Th’
Frog, is goin’ for to make hist’ry
in this country.”
The Frog bounded away with
the stuttering leaps the hobbles
imposed. He sniffed the ground,
lay down and rolled ; rose and
shook himself. Then he posed
while the hour-low sun probed
his hide with fingers of living
fire.
“He looks somethin’ like a
stallion,” the cook observed.
“He’s a bit proud,” Harry
admitted grudgingly. “He don’t
worry th’ mares at all, on’y in
th’ flush of th’ season, just after
the wet. It don’t matter then.
Any gelding’s likely to get a bit
above himself at that time of
th’ year. They gets notions. He
don’t do no harm; if he does
get a bit above himself I can
jerk him back on th’ mark with
a bit of work. He’s too good to
sell. He’s th’ makin’s of a
champeen! ”
The Frog shuffled away while
the two men watched him. And
Harry particularly noted, and
remembered it afterwards, when
a coquettish mare approached
The Frog and tried to flirt with
him, she was driven away-
repulsed with chopping bites and
lashing hind-heels!
banked up as the
N-' sun set. Before midnight
that rarest of rare occurrences in
that country came about: a
steady rain at the beginning of
winter! The cracked earth
gulped the rain, became spewey
stuff in which the horses sank
to their fetlocks. All hobble-
straps were of greenhide. They
when saturated, became flaccid,
spongey, stretched like weak
elastic.
During the night, when the
horses of the camp huddled
miserably together, rivulets run-
ning down their buttocks, drib-
bling down their legs, some wild
horses, brumbies, came among
them. A brumby stallion, intent
upon fresh conquests, went to a
hobbled mare to add her to his
brood. He saw The Frog,
scented a rival perhaps, and
approached him.
The Frog, in common with
proud geldings under similar
conditions, arched his neck,
squealed, struck blindly with his
fore-hooves. He wheeled as a
continuation of that stroke,
lashed with his hind-heels, spun
and struck again with his
hobbled fore-hooves. The
hobbles would have held under
ordinary conditions. Soaked
and soft, they stretched, slipped,
fell to the ground.
The Frog was free! Some
latent instinct stirred in him ;
some knowledge of sex possessed
him ; some urge took him. He
swept in, took that challenging
brumby stallion by the neck,
smashed while he held him in the
air, and, as he let that quivering
heap go, sent both hind-hooves
laden with death over his
opponent’s heart!
That brumby stallion was pre-
pared to fight another horse ; he
never expected to meet a devil
clothed in blue roan. He lay
where he fell, one rib stove in, the
broken edge protruding through
his hide, with strings of nerves
trembling ; another broken bone
pierced his lung, which bled him
to death. His body was there
in the morning, to give a mute
picture of the fight which had
taken place, to corroborate the
blackboy’s story that The Frog
was missing when he, the horse-
tailer, had rounded up the camp
horses.
The Frog never hesitated after
defeating that brumby stallion:
he swept round the small mob
of mares, hunted them into
position, stalked through them
with his tail and neck arched,
advanced his nostrils to those
who sought favors from their
new lord. He reared and
squealed as blatantly as any
brumby stallion from the Wild
Horse Mountains.
The Frog may have known,
by the small number of mares
he had captured, it was only a
weakling stallion he had worsted.
If he did reckon in that manner
it would be reasonable to
assume The Frog had enough
faith in his own powers to know
that he could add to his mares
from the mobs of other stallions.
He did not stop to do mental
arithmetic or measure possibili-
ties ; he rounded his mares in a
mob, assumed immediate owner-
ship, and trotted at the lead of
them while they followed
obediently behind as he took
them up the course of Six-Mile
Creek towards the rough-
country at the foot of the
ranges.
The clouds packed up and
rolled away during the night.
Next morning was all trembling
with sweetness, soft and clean.
The winds from the south-east
carried the sound of horse-bells,
of driven stock, to the foot of
the ranges.
The Frog stood under a
gidyea-tree, hidden in its
shadows. He held his head low,
his eyes staring, his ears pricked.
He was balanced for instant
action as he watched the move-
ments of the figures on the
plains below him. He remained
motionless, a shadow carved in
stone, till the last man had dis-
appeared over the crest of the
downs, till the last tingling note
of a horse-bell had faded. He
shook himself ; with that shake
he shed a thousand generations
of domestic training, years of
schooling, became on the instant
a wild thing with the instinctive
cunning of a brumby.
He looked over his mob.
Three of them were great with
young ; three had foals at foot;
three were in keeping with the
rest of the mob —obvious rejects
from the brood of some lordly
stallion who declined to harbor
remnants of no particular
charm. The Frog walked
through them, his head high.
Not one of them found
favor in his sight till a mare,
resisting his advances, roused
him to assert himself. He took
her by the nape of the neck,
lifted her from the ground, and
swung her as she hung limply in
his teeth. He dropped her;
snapped suddenly ; took the butt
of her tail in his teeth and
gripped hard.
The mare made palsied
efforts to escape ; she sagged at
the knees and sweated in fear ;
she acknowledged her lord and
submitted to him. Those mares
knew thenceforth a master-mind
controlled them. They obeyed
every soundless order, every
desire The Frog showed. What-
ever their own inclinations may
have been they did not dare to
move from the shelter of the
trees till night fell, when their
lord, in the manner of a wild
thing, led them to water and to
feed.
The Frog knew the rules: a
stallion always leads his mares
to water. There may be strange
stallions to encounter ; the pangs
of thirst ensured that no mare
would wander from the mob.
The stallion always drove his
mares ahead of him when leav-
ing water after a drink. That
kept the mob under his eyes
should any desire to wander ;
that enabled him to see other
stallions coming in to drink.
ONE' night, on their way out
from water, The Frog saw
a brumby stallion coming in
with about twenty mares in his
mob. A sudden impulse took
that proud gelding who was
masquerading as a stallion: he
wanted that brood of mares.
There were anything up to five
hundred other wild horses in
that area, and any of them
would be just as easy to capture
as that mob coming in under
the care of a massive bay
stallion. The Frog wanted that
mob —that and no other!
He swung round the side of
his own mob, chopped one with
his teeth as he passed, which,
it seemed, impressed all his
mares with the need of instant
obedience. They .stood, ears
pricked, eyes gleaming, while the
blue-roan fellow who owned
them raced to the lead to chal-
lenge those approaching.
The bay stallion was a worthy
warrior. The size of his brood
denoted his powers. He did not
wait to be challenged: his great
muscles knotted and bulged as
he trotted to the lead; his wide
hooves smashed the ground and
raked dust as he accepted the
dare thrown down by the lighter
horse.
The horses faced each other ;
their broods stood behind them,
heads high, ears pricked, eyes
bright. Those mares must have
known battle was to be waged
for their possession ; they knew
they were to be prizes to the
victor ; each of them knew in
her heart, perhaps, though she
owed allegiance to her lord, that
fealty would be transferred to
the victor without an ounce of
regret and with the same willing-
ness she had shown her present
owner.
The horses challenged each
other by pawing dirt: streams
of dust and pebbles flying over
their shoulders. They advanced
till their outstretched nostrils
exchanged stertorous gasps of
defiance. The bay snapped at a
twig and played with it between
his lips; the blue-roan sniffed
the ground with mighty gusts.
Those were just preliminaries.
They advanced again ; touched
nostrils, reared as one horse;
snapped with bared teeth, struck
with smashing hooves. They
dropped to the ground again in
completion of the first round
fought as ordained by the rules
of brumby etiquette.
There should have been an-
other smelling of breaths, an-
other rear and squeal, before the
real battle commenced. The
bay knew the rules ; he was pre-
pared to follow them. The Frog
was an ignorant upstart who did
not fight according to the book:
he swept in without pause or
let-up, a blue-roan streak of
action, and closed his teeth on
the nape of the bay’s neck. He
caught, held, fought like fierce
fury unleashed.
The bay responded. He had
beaten other stallions —the
number of his mares denoted
that. He had never before faced
forked-lightning in horse-hide ;
he had not previously met a
horse whose muscles and sinews
were steel-hard from work
among cattle on camp, in perfect
training ; he had never fought a
horse with the fire of the blue-
roan gelding, who never let up
for a moment, matched him for
balance and strength, outpaced
him for speed, elusive as a
wraith, who struck like a snake,
whose perfect balance put power
behind his punches.
That bay stallion was brave.
His courage may have been
sapped by the idea he was fight-
ing a devil instead of a horse:
he broke into the human
equivalent of a double-smother
in the boxing-ring—he swung
his rump round hard under The
Frog’s neck, pressed against his
chest. That nullified the efforts
of both horses: the bay was too
close to kick with effect ; The
Frog, if he eased his position to
his own advantage, gave the-bay
range to use his heels.
The Frog should have
observed the truce implied by
that smother. He did not! He
raked the bay’s ribs with his
teeth, lifted ribbons of hair and
tore a triangular flap of hide
which hung like an unhinged
door.
The bay oozed fear, sweated
with futility, dripped blood
from his wounds. He could not
stand the pressure; he shot for-
ward, content to keep his life
and lose his mares. He raced,
his drumming feet pounding the
ground.
The Frog watched him go.
Suddenly, spurred perhaps by'
the thought of what he would
have done on a cattle-camp, he
sprang from a standing start.
He raced after the bay, gather-
ing him as easily as a hawk
would swoop on a finch. He
paused deliberately with all the
care of an epicurean eater select-
ing a bite to take. Then he
struck; he took the nape of the
neck in his teeth, closed hard,
bore down heavily.
The bay crumpled at the knees
when that numbing nerve-centre
was gripped ; he stumbled as his
legs lost their power ; he tripped
on to his nose, hesitated a flick,
then in a grand arc he swung
over and thudded to the ground
with a smash which seemed to
shake the foliage of near-by
trees. He lay where he fell, great
gallons of air pumped from his
nostrils, slow blood trickling
from his mouth, content to lose
his mares qnd save what was
left of his life.
The Frog merged both mobs
of mares; he squealed his
triumph as he strode through
them; reared, yelled blatantly
as a demonstration of his
power; turned, without a look
at his mares, and led them to the
feeding-grounds, sure that they
would, follow him.
A COUPLE of men rode over
that area about a week later.
They were looking for The
Frog. He was too skilled, too
clever, too valuable, to be
dropped casually. Those men
saw mobs of wild horses —
hundreds of them. The Frog
saw the men: hidden in the
shade of some low trees he
watched them, and led his mares
into rough-country in the heart
of the ranges. He kept them
there till the week ended, and
the men had returned to the
head-station with the informa-
tion that they hadn’t sighted any
horse resembling The Frog.
Every day in his wild state
seemed to add the knowledge of
a thousand years to The Frog’s
wild cunning. No stallion
among all those brumbies was
■more masterful than the blue-
roan gelding ; none had a bigger
mob of mares ; not one could
match him for cunning, stand
against him in battle, pace it
with him for speed. He ranged
wide, took the best of the feed,
selected his own watering-places,
had an educated knowledge of
the ways of man.
Summer, and the drying
waters in the mountains, forced
The Frog to lead his mares out
on the plains, to water at the
Burke River. That water dried.
The Frog shifted over to the
Wills —a river with more under-
ground water in its sandy-bed.
He located a mickery which had
been opened by kangaroos.
That cup-size depression was
not big enough for the horses
to drink at They enlarged it.
Under ordinary conditions
those wild horses would have
fought, played, rolled and raced
about a watering-place. Some
instinctive knowledge may have
warned them to be ful in
that sliding sand. They pawed
the sand away as the under-
ground water receded
made a channel half-rib
they entered one at a time, ti u
carefully, backed out again.
One horse drank at a
matter how they may tu
tortured by thirst, the oduii.
stood back and waited. They
went to water at night, fearful
of hidden dangers, trod timor-
ously, scampered wildly after
the drink was completed. Then
they turned and snorted a chal-
lenge to the danger they had
dreaded.
The Frog was seen a couple of
times during that summer. A
pair of men came out while
work was slack with the
intention of getting him. That
was easy—for The Frog. The
men never had a chance. The
Frog took the lead and raced
for the mountain country as
soon as the men drew near his
mob.
Other men tried to get him.
The Frog played with them.
And these adventures had a bad
influence with the blue-roan
gelding: they bred an arrogance
in him, let him know he could
beat man, a creature he had pre-
viously regarded as supreme
among animals. The next time
men tried to get him he raced
for about haif-a-mile, swung
back through his mob, and
charged like a blue rocket at the
man on horseback.
Those men were after an ex-
camp-horse, not a fire-eating
demon. They returned without
the horse, but with an exagger-
ated account of his villainy.
The management took a
philosophical view: “He s
settled now anyway. He’ll never
AUTHOR’S NOTE.
This story of one of the most
remarkable horses I have ever
known is correct in every detail,
other than that fictitious names are
given the people. I was managing
Warenda Station during the final
years of The Frog’s reign. Perhaps
I was the last man to see him
alive. Much of his domestic life,
as related here, is only conjecture;
but I have seen so many horses
under similar conditions I know I
am on perfectly safe ground in
describing the actions taken by The
Frog.—H.G.L.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
He e: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Mario.-, Fir. and Accident Insurance at lowest rates
TOURISI S’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’la.ad Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
+ Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager
With the electric welding kit with a thousand uses. Welds cracks and
holes in car bodies, mudguards, radiators, etc. Repairs motor-cycles,
domestic appliances, sheet metal work, etc. It solders and brazes, too.
Many useful articles can be made such as Station Wagon Bodies, Radio
Chassis, Caravan Bodies, etc.
The kit is easy to operate and it quickly pays for itself in time and money
saved. Works from 6-volt or 12-volt battery. Call in for free demonstra-
tion of welding or send now for this complete welding kit; comprising
a high-grade welding tool, 10 feet of welding cable and 3 battery clips,
assortment of welding rods, flux, electrodes, and complete working instruc-
tions.
This welding kit is the only one sold in Australia with a 6-point guarantee:—
3MVUVD3
IVlud
9
• Fully guaranteed for two years.
• The only kit sold fully complete.
• After sales service. Renewals of welding
rods, electrodes, etc., can be supplied at small
cost.
• Free technical service. After purchase you
may at any time write to us for further
instructions free.
• We guarantee you will become proficient at
welding. The quality of the welding kit, plus
the complete instructions and free technical
service gives you every aid to weld skilfully.
• Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded
in full.
This complete welding kit, instructions, and 6 point guarantee
will be mailed to you for £4/15/6. Write NOW. You risk
nothing. Send for your kit TODAY, POST COUPON NOW.
*
378 Burnley Street, Richmond, Victoria.
i Enclosed is £4/15/6. Please send me complete Welding Kit
s and six point guarantee. If at the end of 14 days I do not wish
: to keep it, I win return it in good order, and you will refund
= my £4/15/6 in full. Please write in BLOCK CAPITALS,
| NAME
S ADDRESS
ftimMIUHIMH«millll«IIIIRIUlillllllRI«lllll***HIMRIII>IIIIBIR>»ll«KRRIIIIIIIHaillllllRIIKIIIIItlll«
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches tn:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—-
SHIPPING -INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
make a camp-horse again. He s
a gelding, so he can t get any
foals. Anyway, if he was a
stallion, it wouldn’t matter;
there were dozens of other
stallions running wild. It wasn’t
worth risking a man and horse
after worthless rubbish. He
wasn’t even worth the bullet
needed to shoot him. That
country wasn’t being used; the
horses weren’t doing any harm ;
they could be left alone.”
THE years went by—four or
1 five of them—and it was
noted that The Frog was chang-
ing his mode of life. His color,
also, was altering: in common
with all blue-roans, he was fad-
ing with age. His mane and tail
were sweeping in their length
and grandeur ; he still had the
biggest mob of mares under his
control; he was just as wild, as
arrogant, masterful and
domineering. Hi s domestic
habits changed.
Early in the year, after the
wet season, with the full flush of
new grass and rich blood, The
Frog was a stallion in his ways
and actions. He squealed and
roared his delights and detesta-
tions ; fought and flirted with
vigor. He held his mob together
from January to October,
allowed no other stallion near
them, herded them with a rigor
which made him supreme head
of the mob. Early in October,
when the first heated breaths of
summer were drying the waters
and withering the grasses, The
Frog’s ambitions, in common
with all geldings’, sank to a low
ebb—to revive with the coming
of the rains. It was then that,
with the return of summer,
warm blood coursed in the veins
of entire stallions, made them
restless, gave them the desire to
mate.
Even though his spirits were
low The Frog kept command of
his mob: he allowed none to
stray, and added odd members
to it. Strangely enough, though
he would have resented it at
any other time during the year,
he allowed young stallions to
enter his mob, to mate with his
mares. He was unable to beget
a foal himself ; but, particularly
as he grew older, no foster-father
could have been more devoted
to his children than The Frog
was attentive to the progeny of
straying stallions. In its own
way, it was a ridiculous reversal
of an old human order:
Ancient sultans kept eunuchs to
guard their harems ; this eunuch
horse allowed equine sultans in
his harem to perpetuate the-
species.
More years went by—eight or
ten of them—and The Frog be-
came more masterful, more
intolerant, with age. His powers
did not wane; he had no actual
powers to lose. Admittedly, his
mares had dropped to about half
the number of his prime ; but
his score or more was still the
biggest individual mob. Brumby-
runners, shooters, others had re-
duced the numbers of the wild
horses. They chivvied The Frog
occasionally, and each incident
added to his cunning and in-
creased his contempt of man.
He was growing sour, full of
devil.
Warenda Station was sold a
couple of times in quick suc-
cession at about that time. The
new owners set about improving
the country to carry sheep, and
to use all of it. They fenced in
new areas, made new waters,
enclosed old ones, completely
upset the order of life of the
wild things which lived on the
parts previously unfenced.
Brumby-runners trapped many
of the wild horses ; shooters re-
duced them ; fences, which they
did not understand, kept them
from waters at which they had
been accustomed to drink. Many
died of thirst.
The Frog managed to keep his
twenty-odd mares together. He
had ability and cunning—more,
he had brains. He might have
had some secret watering-place
in the mountains ; he may have
sneaked in to the Wills at night.
His main feeding-grounds were
still on Six-Mile Creek. That
gave him a getaway into the
mountains. He might have been
perturbed ; particularly he must
have been upset when a set of
yards was erected on a fence
some distance from his feeding
area, yet within touch of it —say,
six or seven miles away.
IT was about that time I took
1 the management of Warenda
Station. I heard of The Frog
and his exploits. I felt a pity
and admiration for that gallant
old defier of civilisation. I knew
he was doomed; but, at least,
I would try to save the old
fellow to live his declining years
in dignified ease, if not in refine-
ment. I decided to run him m,
and, in the language of bush-
men when referring to old stock,
“pension him off.”
We knew where The Frog was
running with his mob. We
knew the lay of the land, direc-
tion of the wind, a dozen other
details. We knew where w©
could wheel him into a mob of
quiet horses which we took as
coachers; we knew just where
to swing them to lead to the new
yards which had been built. We
knew all we had to know. We
did not know The Frog’s re-
actions. I had no doubt, once
he was yarded, he would be
tractable, amenable to reason,
and reconcile himself to the
comforts of paddock life again.
Our dispositions were wellnigh
perfect.
Conditions were ideal on the
day. I took two good men with
me —and two good men are
worth twice that number of
ordinary men. We were
superbly mounted. Our
coachers were stationed at the
bend of the creek which shot
off towards the yards. I couldn’t
have asked for better conditions.
We met The Frog and his
mob just where we expected to
get them; they galloped in the
direction we wished them to go.
That is over thirty years ago ;
but I remember the incidents of
that ride: I can feel the wind
streaming past my face, see the
wild horses as they bucked and
played, get the action of my
beautiful mare Nellie as she
raced up the wing of the gallop-
ing brumbies. The rumbling
thunder of their hooves is in my
ears, the gritty taste of dust on
my lips ; I can see those wild
things, tails sprayed, manes
tossed, and, noblest of all, the
blue-roan fellow in charge, The
Frog. He was in the lead, taking
his mares to safety.
We hit the coachers with a
bang, and a visible shudder
shook both mobs at the impact.
Those trained horses knew what
they had to do. They did it:
they turned and raced towards
the yards, the brumby mob fol-
lowing them.
The Frog ranged through
them, raced to the lead,
pirouetted, squealed, and looked
for a possible rival to oust from
this new mob. He may have
been a little uneasy; but he was
obviously in full charge of his
mares; none dared break his
discipline.
After going about four or five
miles, with the wing of the yards
a couple of miles ahead, a weak-
ling foal dropped back. That
did not worry us: we did not
want brumby foals; we knew a
foal, bereft of reason through
exhaustion, would follow the
rumble of galloping hooves so
long as it could keep going. That
foal would catch up with us at
the yards, after the mob was
behind rails.
The Frog dropped back to the
rear of his galloping mares.
Some sense must have told him
there was a laggard foal behind
—l’ll swear he could not have
seen it in the dust. He swooped
out in a grand semicircle,
ignored the men on horseback,
swept in on that foal following
so bravely.
I thought we had lost The
Frog. I was in two minds: to
see if he would follow the mares
if we kept them going; to try
to swing the lead back to
envelop The Frog.
The blue-roan reached the
foal; just stuttered in his stride
as he reared ; smashed that atom
of horseflesh to the ground, and
left it lying there, a quivering
corpse. He swung in one action,
and, belly-to-earth, raced to re-
sume command of his mares.
He went through the mob as
easily as a ship cuts its way
through water, and almost he
seemed to throw a furrow on
each side. He reached the lead,
reared, squealed, perhaps gave
some order, and then he shot
straight out of the mob.
I can see him now: his blue
head outstretched, mane flying,
ears back, teeth flashing, eyes
brilliantly red. I could not see
his tail: he was charging me!
NELLIE, my mare, as game a
thing as ever looked
through a bridle or held a bit,
a mare I’d trusted with my life,
went limp between my legs as
that devil in blue came closer.
She galloped with the night-
marish action of trying to run
over feather-pillows in a hideous
dream ; she switched her tail and
dropped her hold of the bit.
She would, and she had, faced
anything from fires, floods,
charging bullocks, the long
drudgery of endless days. But
that semblance of a stallion
charging snapped her courage
and made her a flaccid thing
without the power to resist 'or
put up a fight.
I cracked my whip in The
Frog’s face. As well throw a
penny cracker at a battleship!
He ignored it, though, to my
own satisfaction, I did see a red
weal spring into being down his
forehead —just a shutter-click
snapshot of a picture.
Candidly, I don’t know what
happened next. I felt a rush of
wind as The Frog’s hooves
smashed past in front of me;
I heard a stifled yell as his
teeth closed on the mare’s neck ;
I had the peculiar brassy taste
in my mouth which follows a
heavy fall as I spat gravel and
dust out of my mouth.
The mare, Nellie, was
scrambling to her feet; further
over The Frog shook himself as
he recovered from his fall; 1
had a mad desire to get to my
feet —I disliked the idea of being
pulped on the ground and, if I
had to die, I preferred to take it
on my feet.
The Frog turned, eyed me for
a flash of a second —which
seemed to stretch to an un-
limited time —and called to his
mares. He led them, through
the gap he had forced, to the
safety of the hills.
THE Frog was never seen
again. We did note, when
we ran his tracks, that there
were occasional clots of blood
on the ground. I don’t know if
any of his mares was wounded
during, the run. I can’t say if
The Frog burst some blood-
vessel when he collided with my
mare and fell.
Fencers, shooters, runners,
wiped out his mob of mares.
Even if he died of old age, The
Frog has long since run his
span. Away up at the head of
some rough gorge in Wild Horse
Mountains, there may be a few
scattered bones and a wisp of
blue-roan hair to show that The
Frog lived his life and died in
the country he loved.
AN OLD MAN.
I’m weary o’ toil and care;
It’s a sad life;
And O I’d snatch by her tousled
hair.
Me old wife.
Once in the mornin’ we knew
A dear love
But it washed away in a winter
dew
With the moon above.
It’s Jost in the moon-haunted
shadows:
I’m tired now;
Nor care to search in the lonely
shadows,
Nor know how.
It’s always been joy in the
mornin'
And a tired night;
And strange the loves of the
bright of the dawnin’
In the moon’s light.
It must be sung well at the day-
break,
The life’s song,
Else the tune goes queer in the
moon’s wake
And the words wrong.
I’m too old now for singin ,
Me wind’s short.
There’s peace, of a kind. It was
wrong 1 was bringin’
But it’s all brought.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Neerim,” on sadly reading that at the
local horse-sale farmers found it hard
to compete with the knackers, fondly
thinks of some old friends:
I’m thankful I was born and grew up while a
horse was still a horse and not just a hunk of
meat to be fed to dogs; and I’m thankful that
those good ones I can stjll see in the dust of
memories died in the bush where they were
born. Of all the hundreds I sat upon, somehow
the first still seems the best —Silvermine, the
little Timor-cross pony that Cooper Brothers
swapped for a two-year-old stallion when Silver
was a foal. He grew up with us at Pine Creek
(NT.), sired all our best ponies and was used
as a hack by my two brothers and myself, each
in his turn. We gave him the freedom of all
North Australia when we left to come south.
As he trotted across Horseshoe Creek, hobble-
less and free —never carried a brand —he turned
and looked back once, whinnied and was gone
—the deep chestnut hide of him, the snow-white
mane and tail. All Collins-street went as hushed
as a billabong at midday when my brother met
me there and told me Silver was gone—he’d
had word by the grapevine that “Big Jack”
McLelland (of We of the Never Never) had
come across the old fellow when the years had
become a burden, and for the sake of us boys
had given him the mercy of a well-placed bullet.
There was Old Jim, the offside leader in the
dray-team carting stone to our battery at the
Driffield. Tall, lean, lop-eared, with a great
slobbering pendulous lower lip, ugly, raw-boned,
he looked like the descendant of a long line of
mistakes, and was a “hatter” to boot —he could
stand still for hours and never ring the bell —
you had to track him to find him. He loafed
along in the team all day, with his spreader
rubbing sores on his hocks; but when you
wanted him he was there. “Stand up, Jim!”
and he’d put his great splayed front feet
together and look back, and when you called
on the others Jim’s feet would go out sideways,
like a breast-stroke swimmer, his chest got
almost on to the ground; the load moved then,
or it was a new set of chains for Jim. Then
gjß
"The radio ain't workin' too good , boss.”
there was Flash, mother’s safest hack, with his
snip-blazed face, who disgraced us all by
cantering home from Yee Lee’s and bringing
the “Little Missus” with him, when she wanted
to be away to Elsey Downs and the writing of
We of the Never Never. 1 was home from
school that day (very sick, until the others left
for school). The Little Missus and Flash passed
within feet of me where I crouched hke a Mid
SR bSlIdTa ’
Dad seemed a little nonplussed— l guess he sold
them a “quiet lady’s hack.” He was quiet, but
mother nearly always finished her Sunday-after-
noon ride by cantering down the good going
of the pad from Yee Lee’s, the Chinese butcher
on the outskirts of Pine Creek. There have
been hundreds of others; the first to carry me
over fences, the first past a winning-post; Babe,
who could turn on a threepenny-bit on the
greasy Gippsland hills of old Mirboo; and the
present staunch farm pair, probably the last
I’ll ever own. But I haven’t bad one I could
feed to a greyhound.
* * * *
“Sparks”: Now that all the mystery
about static electricity has been cleared,
will the experts explain this? Our old
W.Q. woolshed is made of galvanised-
iron; when hot, dry winds are blowing
and the bins have been full of wool for
some time, a man can stand knee-deep
in the wool, poke a finger slowly towards
the iron wall of the bin, and before the
digit can reach it a blue spark will jump
from his finger to the iron.
* * * *
“The Pirate”: Is it usual for magpies
at large to imitate the human voice? At
a farm near Rhyll, Phillip Island (Vic.),
the boss’s sheep-dog won’t come when
he calls him. The reason is that he’s been
fooled so often by the home-guard of
maggies on the rooftops taking off his
owner yelling “ ’Ere, Mike! ”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Between Moulamein
and Barham (N.S.W.) there’s a lot of
creeks tangled up with the Wakool and
Edward Rivers, and the boss sent Mat
and me somewhere in behind the Neimur
bridge to get out about a thousand mixed
sheep before the lignum country flooded.
It took a couple of days to get ’em to-
gether, and we were clear of the water
except for the last creek between us and
the main road. When we got to it a
banker was running, so we held the sheep
while we cut some gum saplings and built
a rough bridge. Took a few lambs across
and, after some backing and filling, the
ewes followed. But the last half-dozen
sheep, wool-blind wethers, balked. Mat
went on to the bridge to shove ’em over
and his weight sent him and five sheep
into the water. After a lot of hard work
and cursing we got the things out, Mat
drained himself and on we went. At the
gate was the boss. “Well, how did y’ get
on with the sheep?” “Aw, great, great,”
Mat roared. “We was such good cobbers
we even went swimmin’ with the
blankards! ”
* * * ♦
“324”: Pelicans in flight (B. 16/7/’52)?
One sunset I watched three pelicans
leisurely flying in V-formation westward
to their camping-place beyond the
Mildura drome, when it was being used
as a training-base, A plane came in flying
high on their line; they accelerated but
were overheaded and passed. A second
plane tailed the first. Instantly the peli-
cans changed formation into “upright,”
each flying exactly above the other with
wings in unison as if all were skewered
together. They did not vary their course
or height, but flew into the sun as the
planes above were doing. Have often
Wf)nf |erpd if tbev wore thus nrotectina a
wondered it tney were tnus protecting a
younger bird.
« « * «
, . „ _ , . , , „
Old-timer : Two big and three small
boys, plus one small and two big dogs,
p ] us one small girl plus one 3l & axe
a " d * W ° b ? Unt ‘°“ ahawks and a kiteten
knife and a spoon and a kero.-tm,
gathered round a small box-tree. One
big boy pointed out the bees coming and
through tbo hnlo about 20ft un in
f° ln S through me hole about ZUIt. up in
the tree, both big boys then yelled ut each
other about the best way to do it, fought
momentarily, de.sisted, studied the tree.
The small boys, aided by the dogs, who
were plainly mystified but determined to
be in it, gathered sticks and bushes and
made a smoke. The small girl went and
sat on the ground some distance away
and shrieked at them. They ignored her,
except the oldest* dog, who tried to
comfort her by licking her face, which
scared her, and she got up and ran,
screaming, into the scrub. The boys still
ignored her, assaulted the tree and
brought it down. This annoyed the bees,
which fell on boys and dogs impartially,
scattering them. The boys reported to
their various homes, had their stings
treated, then went proudly round the
village showing their wounds. Only one
dog got stung, on the nose, and he sat on
the railway-siding and whined. Some
"By Harry , I'd like to find the fellow who didn't replace THAT divot!”
time later somebody remembered the
small girl. They found her sitting on
the fallen tree. She’d opened the hole
with a tomahawk until she could get a
hand in, and was gorged with honey,
sleepily content and unstung, and with
bees walking about on her.
* * * *
“Gulliver”; It is sad to reflect how
unappreciated by some unimaginative
humans can be a dog’s bright mental
process. Take the case of a greyhound,
one Lea Pick, who on all previous
'appearances had faithfully but fruitlessly
pursued the tin-hare at Gosford (N.S.W.)
around the appointed circle. Noticing
that first-past-the-post was rewarded with
choice steaks as well as public adulation,
he had given the matter deep thought
and reached the same mathematical con-
clusion as some human thinker hit on cen-
turies ago—that the diameter of a circle
is of less extent than the circumference.
So next time up he hurdled the pickets,
nipped smartly across the arena, jumped
back on to the track just behind the
quarry and chivvied it past the post many
lengths ahead of the field. But the judge
soullessly gave the palm to industry
rather than brains, and poor old Lea is
left in grave doubt of the advantages of
the higher education.
“B. A. Ker”: Big Alf, the Dane, came
to our district in about ’4O, and immedi-
ately became suspect. A few thought
he should be treated as a friendly neutral;
others considered him a railsitter just
waiting to see which way the war would
go ; some thought he should be regarded
as an enemy alien, and the really aggres-
sive flagwaggers made no secret of their
belief that he was a fifth-columnist. But
the elderly Dane blissfully carried on at
the poultryfarm he had taken over,
beaming at anyone who would bid him
good-day, and nodding to those who
wouldn’t. Nobody knew what he thought
about the war until just after Churchill
introduced the “V for Victory” slogan,
then all except the bitterest diehards were
won over in a day: Alf’s rattly old utility
(crudely converted from an ancient car)
came jolting down the road with a huge
white “V” stuck across the windscreen.
The white adhesive-tape was still stuck on
the glass when peace came and Alf bought
a new ute. Last week the modern bus
was in the garage for repairs and the old
chap drove to town in the old bitzer. The
V-sign had not been scraped off. “What,
are you applying it to the Korean
scrap, Alf?” I asked. He looked
mystified. “The V,” I explained. “Oh,
the sticking-blaster,” he grinned. “It is
still doing the goot chob —in the wind-
screen she is got the two dirty big cracks! ”
“The Bunyip”: Old Darby sat on the
bench in front of the pub, sorry for him-
self and a bit self-conscious over the sand-
shoes that his accident had forced upon
him ; he didn’t see that the small error of
judgment which led his foot to the wrong
side of a dray-wheel should have penalised
him to the extent of being mistaken for
“one o’ them tennis-players.” He was
pouring his woes down the lug of the lad
from town, what time the said visitor
poured pots rather generously in Darby's
direction, when a sudden eruption in the
bar boiled over into the street, and fists,
feet and expletives flew in a manner
marked more by force than accuracy,
The old boy flung up his hands: “The
shame of it!” he wailed. “The cryin’
shame of it! ” “Come away, Mr.
Coogan,” urged the young stranger.
“Come away or you’ll be hurt! ” “Hurt,
is it! ” yelled the old warrior. “Of course
I’d be hurt! But the shame of it —best
fight in the street since Danny’s weddin’
and me without me kickin’-boots to be
into it!”
* * # *
“Emjai”: Big Dan Crowley had a dark
horse in the cup at the up-country meet-
ing; so dark he had got it in at a weight
which he reckoned made the prad a
moral. This narrowed the choice of
riders, but he finally put up a local boy,
young Sooler Bone, and with a thorough
briefing Dan considered he’d be jake.
But the big colt took charge of the small
boy, bolted flat-out for half a mile, then
fizzled-out and whipped-in the field. As
Dan took the horse and pulled little
Sooler down he left the kid in no sort of
doubt as to what kind of this and that
jockey he was, and where he could go
before he got another ride ; and Sooler
slunk away behind the jockeys’-room to
eat his worms. There, Joe, his cobber,
found him. “Hey, Sooler, wot did that
big Wop do to y’?” he demanded. “Y’
gotter stand up to the likes of ’im. Wot
did y’ say to ’im?” “W-wot did I say to
’im?” echoed Sooler. “Wot didn’t I say
to ’im? I says to meself I said to ’im:
‘Y’ great big dirty stiff, you talk to me
like that an’ I’ll knock y’r bleedin’ block
off, an’ y’ can eat y’r blasted goat of a
’orse before I’ll ride for y’ agin.’ ”
* * * *
“Byram”: Long ago in the great
mountains of our vast land lived Moonan
the warrior and his two sons, whom he
often took on short hunting-trips along
the river-banks and into the deep forests
where the tall trees grew; there to get
food for the tribe. The two boys always
wanted to knoty about the great golden
moon that hung overhead in the starlit
sky. One moonlit evening when Moonan
was collecting witchety-grub's for his
family he saw a very tall tree that looked
like yielding more grubs to his collection.
Throwing aside his shield and spears he
started to climb up and up! The two
boys holding on to the trunk of the tree,
the father, on reaching the top, called to
them that he could touch the moon!
The boys in their great excitement rocked
the tree so violently that Moonan climbed
into the moon for safety. To rescue their
father the two sons climbed every big
tree in sight; but none was tall enough
to reach the moon. After countless ages
the boys climbing so many trees turned
into possums with long curly tails, and
ever since then, when the moon is full,
they can be seen climbing the tallest trees
in their endless search for their father.
At night “The man in the moon” still
looks down and sees his sons, as the
possum only comes out at night
MAN GOING TO WORK.
No sign of breaking day, though day is near,
Bleak July treading on the heels of June,
Houses and streets still wrapped in the austere
Indifferent magic of a winter moon.
So always, whether bleak or summer-sweet
The morning, red as a rose or black with murk,
I hear that step along the empty street.
Somebody going to work.
Two marching footsteps, neither form nor voice
To me, a portrait most obscure and dim.
One hardly thinks that it would be his choice:
Wife, home and children—all depend on him
No doubt; and, having closed behind him all
Doors to adventure, freedom and fresh zest,
Surely those steady shoulders bear a small
World of his own and, with it, all the rest.
Such as he start the wheels and turn the screws
Of ciyilisation’s too unsteady frame,
Servicing each and everything we use
For those who would not even know his name.
So, while the silence echoes to his tread,
Unconscious of. values or the reason why,
Almost despised, while we lie snug a-bed,
This incognito Atlas passes by.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“H.H.”: For many years I have
fostered a belief that sheep commit
suicide ; now I have met a man who
bears out my theory. On his Gippsland
property last week he observed a sheep
stand on a cliff, and, after gazing round
as though for a last look at the land it
had decided to quit, it sprang out into
space and to certain death. I saw a
similar occurrence years ago myself. Is
this a common happening?
* * * ♦
“Eurimburra”: Don’t know if the hare,
like the rabbit, was a “First Fleeter,” but
it certainly made better time crossing the
Divide than did its cousin. In his journal
under the date of May 26, 1823, Captain
Currie states: “Passed up a valley by a
chain of ponds [Mulwarcee] and then
through gullies and over stony ranges to
Lake George, where we camped on the
banks of a creek for a night. Killed three
hares, which afforded excellent coursing
equal to, if not surpassing, the same
sport with the hare in England.” (Currie
had greyhounds.) If, as Ellis Troughton,
in his Furred Animals of Australia, states,
the hare was not introduced into Vic-
toria until 1870 —and the speedy rodent
was probably well beyond Collector
(N.S.W.) by 1823 —it seems incredible that
it should have taken another 47 years
to cross the Murray. As for the “Old
Man” or the ’Bidgee holding the hare up,
such of its descendants as I entertain
seem to have no hesitation in swimming
my mile of river-frontage whenever they
feel like it, and the feed’s just as good
on one side as the other.
J* * * *
“Wiremu”: One of the features of
“mana” in the Maori beliefs was
that on his deathbed a chief could
bequeath his personal mana to one not
a blood relation. When Wi Tako, a noted
chief of the last century, knew that his
end was near he decided, having no son
of his own, to hand on his “mana” to his
son-in-law Tanerau. Hitherto a person
of no great consequence, Tanerau
immediately became a very “tapu” chief
and assumed leadership of the tribe. Any-
thing that had touched his sacred head
became imbued with this mystic power.
For instance, a woman who unwittingly
partook of some of the remnants of
Tanerau’s breakfast, when apprised of the
fact, immediately fell down in a death-
like trance, and remained moribund for
“you say it Was first used by the Chinese thousands of years ago,
Professor?”
some hours until Tanerau could be
called. He took a tress of her hair, wet it
with his lips, and, intoning an invocation
to his ancestors for assistance, gradually
brought her back to life. Tanerau’s
daughter told me that if she picked up a
comb or brush that had touched her
father’s head she immediately had a
“.blackout,” and remained in one for
hours sometimes until her father came
to bring her to. In the height of his
powers Tanerau could not cut his hair or
pare his nails without first rigidly carry-
ing out ceremonial procedure; for, be-
sides shedding some of his mystic power
every time these services were done, it
was dangerous to others to leave the
vestiges around. Modern conditions
made it most inconvenient to Tanerau’s
tribe to have such a nuisance for its
head, so Tanerau decided to shed his
powers, which, with the help of a woman
assistant, was effected. This ceremony
was called whakanoa, “to make
common.” Thereafter Tanerau founded
a religion of his own called the Seven
Rules of Jehovah. It is still a “bona fide”
religious sect whose elders are authorised
to perform marriages, etc. Tanerau was
the grandson of Hakirau (lackey Love), a
whaler storekeeper, who, with six or seven
other Europeans, took part in the Maori
intertribal wars of the early 19th century.
He and his cobbers, mounting some
carronades at the salient points of the
Ngamotu pa in Taranaki, helped the
Ngatiawa tribe to defeat the ferocious
Waikatos. Jackey married a Ngatiawa
woman of high lineage, and his grandson
Tanerau would be about threequarter
Maori.
* * * *
“Betcha”: The grass-seeds are pretty
bad at present. They get in between the
dogs’ toes by the dozens, and work into
the flesh; and most of the mongs carry
a paw at least part of the time. Was
riding behind Jim
the other day when
the action of his
sheep-dog caught my
eye. I was stone
sober. The old kelpie
did about 10 yards
or more holding up
two sore feet; they
were on the same
side, and his balanc-
ing was no mean
effort. Jim assures
me the mong does it often, sometimes
with the two legs on the same side and
sometimes at diagonal corners.
*.* * *
“Sou’-west”: Retired at 70 from a life-
time of droving, old Jack flourished as
a trainer of bush dogs: any pups from
his kennels could be relied on not to
pick up a poison-bait; neither would
they take meat from the hand of anyone
but their owner. Lots of old-timers could
train a dog in such particulars, each man
having his own peculiar technique. Old
Jack kept his a secret until about a week
ago, when I met him, shin-sore from
tramping Perth pavements, waiting to
board the train that would take him back
home Pinjarrah way. “Been around
every fruit-shop, every grocer, even the
seed-shops. One time a man could pick
enough out of a packet of parrot-seed to
keep going, but you can’t even do that
now.” Puzzled, I offered assistance. “I’m
in Perth a lot, perhaps I could pick up
what you’re looking for,” For a moment
he regarded the offer doubtfully. “Well,
I suppose it wouldn’t matter much now.
I’m giving the game away after this last
batch of pups, the price of meat to feed
’em is getting too solid altogether, It’s
chillies—those little red ones that are hot
as blazes.” I knew those chillies, all
right: what kid hasn’t suffered the hot
penalty of trying their tempting scarlet,
showing so alluringly among Cocky s
dinner? “Going to make some pickles,
or some chilli vinegar?” I asked. The
old bloke snorted. “Pickles nothing! I
need chillies to train the pups.” That
was old Jack’s private method. After
rubbing scraps of meat well with chilli
he would drop them round about in the
“How d' y' like ’em— Well done ?”
near-by bush ; then he’d take his trainee
pups for a ramble. After picking up a
scrap of “hot” steak a few times a pup
learned to leave such chance-met meat
strictly alone. The same applied to meat
which Jack would invite visitors to offer
to the pups. Any from his own hand
would, of course, be free from chilli.
* H= * ♦
“Loulalo”: I can’t decide whether “B.”
(B. 16/7/’52) grabs the newly-dropped
lamb under one arm and the ewe under
the other when shifting mother and child
from the delivery-ward to the nursery, or
whether, not being Superman, he does
what Ido myself. I gather up the young-
ster, carry it a chain or so and put it
down as it protests loudly. Mum,
uttering cries of bafflement and rage,
hastens towards us, only to find her baby
carried off as far as practicable. It
works like a charm; the only point to
remember being that the ewe must be
able to hear the lamb. I never take a
dog with me now. I’ve been using the
lamb-lure idea for the last three years
with complete success.
* * * *
“Rocky Ayers”: As soon as I saw the
stones again it came to me in a flash.
Disgusted by a succession of wet week-
ends in Melbourne, I was looking out at
the rain and wondering if I would get
the yard dug over and planted in grass
by the spring, when the missus shifted a
flower-pot on the window-ledge, and there
they were —smooth and waterworn, and
about the size of duck-eggs. I remem-
bered digging them up about a month
ago, and, attracted by their black sym-
metry, put them aside on the ledge and
forgot them. Meantime, having read a
book on aboriginal lore, I recognised
them at once as abo. rain-making stones
of great antiquity. It all fitted in. The
rain had indeed started right after I un-
earthed the stones and had continued
through every weekend since. They,
tiffin, were the cause of it all; but for-
tunately I knew exactly what I had to
do. Taking the stones inside, I wrapped
them up and put them away with other
odds and ends picked up on my travels
in the outback. Prescription perfect: this
morning dawned clear and sunny with
every evidence of a beautiful day. The
author of that book certainly knew what
he was talking about. I got out my wide-
brimmed hat and long-handled shovel in
readiness, and went in to breakfast. After
breakfast I started looking for the
author’s address and my kaditcha-boots
—it’s raining again.
* * ♦ •
“Wippegong”: The neat little parcel
carried the postmark of the valley where
I grew up. A coffee-essence bottle filled
with something black, there was no
need for a label. I took a long
sniff, then a salty sip—mushroom
catchup, or ketsup, if you think
it tastes better that way. It took
me back Jo the paddocks where I knew
they had been gathered ; beautiful white
and brown ones with the pink underneath,
so plentiful and so fresh that you only
picked your favorite size and color ; good
on our own place, better in Stevenson’s
and best of all in Tim Sheehan’s if you
felt like the ride up there. Years later
it was on the gentle Riverina ridges that
I gathered them, then on hard-beaten
sheep-rings on the tablelands, but always
to perform the same solemn rites —to stew
them in milk, thicken them a bit, then use
’em to obliterate a couple of great slabs
of brown, buttery toast; or fry them for
fencing-off a slow-grilled steak; or maybe
just grilling them naked on the top of
the wood-stove, a touch of salt and a bit
of butter to aid the softening of them.
Yes, you can get them in the city shops,
soft and pale around the gills like most
of the people who buy ’em; but when I
want to recall the morning tang of those
paddocks after the first real soaking
autumn rains I will drop a lump of butter
into the pan, add about the same amount
of catchup, and, when the mixture is
sizzling gently, dip in the crusty end of a
fresh brown loaf. If you’re of the heathen
that can’t appreciate mushrooms, then
you’ll not be interested —but in that case
you’ll have given up reading this par.
long ago, anyway.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; I thought I
had tasted about every bird worth eating
in the Australian bush; I even took on
crow of necessity once in the Westralian
mulga. But the other day at Frankston
(Vic.) I sat down to the best roast quail
I had eaten for a while. What with the
flood rains, sleet and gales, and the hill-
sides oozing water everywhere in the
Cabbage Garden, I asked my host where
he possibly got the birds from. The
“quail” it turned out were starlings, which
are, it seems, always on my host’s menu.
So the lousy fowl are not lousy eating.
* * * *
“Villefair”; There was fair money to
be made on the fencing contract —for a
fellow who would work —and the. young
fellow looked strong enough to pick his
teeth with the crowbar. That was why
Old Chick let him in on it; share and
share alike. For the firsf fortnight the
big-’un earned his cut, then the tired
feeling set in. He began to linger in his
blankets until Chicker had the breakfast
cooked ; then he developed a habit of
needing a smoke before starting work,
and needing to be stretched out on his
bunk to have it. Smoke-oh became as
long as dinner-time before Weary could
drag himself up from the supine. Dinner
was always rounded off with another pro-
longed spine-bash. Old Chick began to
complain. The only response was a
plaintive grunt. Gradually the whole of
the camp chores fell to the old chap;
getting the water, cutting the firewood,
doing all the cooking, etc. Chick growled
some more. It got to the stage when he
would start work on his own, his partner
strolling along later. But when smoke-
oh time came and the young poler hadn’t
turned up, Old Chick rushed down to
the camp and really opened up on the
reclining figure. He had stopped to pant
when the defendant got a snarl in: “Aw,
get orf me back, will y’!” “Me get orf
y’r back!” howled Old Chick. “Me!
Gor’ starve the crows, what chance have
I got of gettin’ on y’r back? Y’re always
on it y’rself!”
“IS COLD!”
“Is cold!” I said of bitter weather
But how bitter, how grim, this scold my brother
Scold at morning, scold at night,
Scold at mealtimes —he’s never right,
Told what to do and what to say,
How to say it every day!
O grey and grievous! Life so true,
What betrayal you’ve led him to!
With scold, scold, scolding, he’s chill and harried,
No woman, no wife, but a winter he married!
N.S.W.
R. J. LOUDON.


m
r&“
AS SERGEANT LARKi
patrolled the park,
He heard two sneezes in the dark.
With staff gripped tight, he flashed
his light,
His stern tones echoed through the
night,
"Kape ahf th’ grass! ye coople there;
Yure dith av cowld ye’ll get, f’r
shure!
Come! hurry home, ye love-sick pair,
And both take
Woods’ Great Peppermint Core.”
MARRIAGE:
The Art of
Lasting Happiness
DAVID R. MACE
M.A., B.Sc., Ph.D.
Formerly General Secretary and
Director of the National
Marriage Guidance Council of
Great Britain.
Price 13/3
(Postage 7d. extra)
Obtainable from
WILLIAM TYAS
558 George Street, SYDNEY
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
ĳ
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece,
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses,
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw. Mag- x 25.
£l5/15/-
+ 12i% Sales Tax
i
AND SONS
PTY. LTD,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOME GERM-WARFARE FACTS.
The International Red Cross
has twice offered to send teams
of experts in epidemics to investi-
gate the Chinese-cwm-Moscow
germ-warfare charges.
Both offers, of course, were
refused, abusively.
In March (“Manchester
Guardian” report) the president
of the International Red Cross,
Herr Paul Ruegger, offered to
send a team of Swiss epidemio-
logists, U.S. Secretary of State
Acheson promised that the
investigators would have the
fullest access behind the United
Nations lines to whatever they
wanted to see. The only reply
from the Chinese and North
Koreans was in the form of
abusive broadcasts.
In April the International Red
Cross repeated its offer to
arrange an investigation, sug-
gesting that it might send a
commission of “experts of inter-
national repute, including
epidemiologists chosen from the
Asian countries not parties to the
conflict.” Again the offer was
immediately accepted by the
U.S. Government; again the
only response from the Com-
munist side came in verbal
attacks on the International Red
Cross through the Press and
radio.
Vetoed, Too
Russian representative Malik
happened to be chairman of the
U.N.O. Security Council (they
take the job in turns) when
Acheson first put forward a
resolution requesting an
impartial investigation of the
Korean charges. Malik was able
to prevent discussion, and did
so, but when Sir Gladwyn Jebb
succeeded to the chair on July 1
the resolution was discussed and
supported by every member
except Malik. Driven into that
corner, Malik invoked the veto.
On Malik’s veto “Manchester
Guardian” commented that it
was in itself “evidence in the
case,” that it would “cause many
people to conclude, if they had
not done so already, that the
Communist charges were faked
from the beginning; otherwise
why refuse an investigation?”
The Photographs
Next, three Canadian scientists
—Dr. W. H. Brittain, vice-
principal of Macdonald College,
McGill University ; A. W. Baker,
head of the Entomology Depart-
ment, Ontario Agricultural
College; and Professor C. E.
Atwood, Toronto University-
reported to their Government
on photographs published by the
Peking “People’s Journal.” They
said of the photographs:
1. A pile of dead flies which cannot
be positively identified hut which
cannot be considered any evidence
of bacteriological warfare.
3. A mosquito with the wings re-
moved. It belongs to the genus
Aides, but is not a type known to
carry disease.
3. Two species of stone-flies, one
with long wings and one with short
....described as “poisonous insects
which could fly, crawl, and swim.”
Stone-flies neither bite nor sting,
are not poisonous and cannot carry
human diseases.
Germ-war Modernised
The position for the present
(as summarised in New York
“Herald Tribune” by Walter
Lippmann) is that the U.S. is in
the position of a man, accused
of a monstrous crime, who has
as yet been unable to bring his
accusers into open court.
The charges (the same writer
dispassionately notes) come
down to this: The U.S. is
accused of dropping bombs, con-
taining insects with deadly
diseases, in the coastal area of
China from Canton northward.
It is accused also of using wind
to blow infected paper-bags,
feathers and cotton-balls across
the front-line in Korea.
“Now,” he comments, “the
United States Government has
the capacity to wage germ-
warfare —as it has the capacity
to wage chemical-warfare. An
investigation will show that in
this gruesome research the use
of insects to carry diseases has
long since been given up in favor
of something far more efficient
and devilish, namely what is
known as an ‘aerosol.’ This is
something like the spray of a
flit-gun which hangs in the air
and can be breathed in.
“In the light of this bit of
fact the evidence that the
Chinese are offering is curious.
They are exhibiting two kinds of
bombs which they say we used
to drop infected insects. One
is an American bomb made to
drtrp leaflets. If we were drop-
ping insects, it could be used to
drop insects.
“However, it is the other bomb
they are exhibiting which is par-
ticularly interesting. This is a
small • porcelain object which is
not manufactured in the United
States. It was, however, manu-
factured by the Japanese. More-
over, it was made by the
Japanese not in Japan, but in
Manchuria.”
Thus, in exhibiting this
porcelain bomb as the American
bomb which has been used in
the present germ-warfare, the
Chinese are using as their
evidence an object which has
been made in a factory which
was in Russian and is now in
Chinese hands.
Origin of the Hoax
In this particularly critical bit
of evidence the fabricators of the
accusation have, in Lippmann’s
view, revealed more than they
intended—i.e., they have pro-
vided a pretty good clue as to
where they got the idea for this
propaganda campaign. They
got it, he suspects, from examin-
ing the captured archives of the
former Chiang Government’s
Ministry of Information.
For, he points out, the pattern
and substance of the charges are
a repetition of charges made
against the Japanese on March
31, 1942, by Dr. Wang Shih-
chich, the Minister of Informa-
tion. The Chinese Government
of that day claimed it had made
a long investigation, and had
found conclusive proof that the
Japanese had dropped infected
objects on Changteh, in Hunan,
on November 4, 1941, and that
six Chinese died of bubonic
plague.
“The evidence,” he concludes,
“is not conclusive that the
victims of the plague actually
died of infection produced by
the Japanese. But it is reason-
ably certain that the Japanese
did at least experiment with
germ-warfare. What matters
here, however, is that this
Chinese Government has used
against the U.S. the old accusa-
tion against Japan, not stopping
Los Angeles ( U.S.A .) “Mirror.”
“TAKE A CARD, LADY—ANY CARD!”
to realise that the Japanese
methods which they attribute to
tne U.S. have long been known
to be ineffective and are quite
obsolete.”
His finding: “The accusation
is—without qualification of any
kind—false.”
The Fechteler Furphy.
“The publication of docu-
ments, true or false, seems to
have become the latest arm of
international psychological war-
fare.” —‘ ‘Paris-Presse.”
The “germ-warfare” propa-
ganda will go down in history as
the classic example of the thesis
that the bigger the lie the better
its chance of convincing fools.
Another in the same category
was the fake “secret report”
ascribed to American Admiral
Fechteler.
As with the “germ-warfare”
propaganda, the original charges
have had much more publicity
than their refutation. Therefore
the facts in the “secret-report”
hoax are worth noting.
Paris “Le Monde” is not pro-
Com.; it is in fact conservative.
But its “policy” for France is
neutralism. No doubt this
blurred its ordinarily sound
journalistic instincts when it pub-
lished an article purporting to
be a secret report by Admiral
Fechteler, American Chief of
Naval Operations, which pro-
phesied war by 1960, a speedy
conquest of Western Europe by
the Russians and a main
American effort to liberate the
Continent, based on North
Africa.
The report, according to “Le
Monde,” had been “intercepted”
by the British and divulged
through a leak in the British
Admiralty,
Thlls £ar it had wide publicity,
Ntso , h fact that Amsterdam
“Algemeen Handelsblad” recog-
the substance and much of
e form of the spurious o u-
rncnt as a . version o an
artlcle whlch app f r, f d about
* wo ar ? a f° , in Procee i
of the United States Naval
Institute, written by Com-
mander Anthony Talenco. The
ta king included considerable
additions.
The upshot was that “Le
Monde” had to make the
quaintly shamefaced admission:
“Our good faith has been
abused.” Even so, like the
“germ-warfare” charges, the lie
went well while its run lasted.
Various Voices.
U.S. ex-sergeant (to Ike) :
“You’d better win, General, or
well both be back in the Army
for life.”
Montgomery : “I love Ike, and
I would do anything for him.
To my mind Ike is a
tremendously great human
being.”
British Minister of Works
Eccles: “Within 10 years we
shall be exporting prefabricated
buildings to a value of between
£5O million and £lOO million a
year. In return for these exports
we shall be able to buy the food
and materials we need.”
British Labor ex - Minister
Shinwell: “I should like to see
in the Government a Minister
who is responsible for the
organisation of emigration, of
course with the consent of the
Commonwealth countries. We
must be prepared for a large
measure of emigration, and if
many of our people must leave
these shores, they should have
the opportunity to go to one or
other of the Commonwealth
countries.”
Dr. Fisher, Archbishop of
Canterbury : “In America, I am
told, the family has been recon-
structed by television, and instead
of mother and father, boy and
girl having dates every night,
they spend their evenings to-
gether like dumb creatures sitting
in the dark and never speaking.
That is not much of a remedy.”
A New Yorker (quoted in
London “Financial Times’):
“You’ve had eight months of
milk-and-water Conservatism.
Yet I’m told that if you had a
general election now the
Socialists would be back with a
majority of 100. What’s hap-
pened to the British people?
Don’t they know the facts of
life?”
A ttlee: “If you nationalise
everything you have not got
necessarily a Socialist society.”
Labor member of the
Commons, Denis Healey : “Let
us remember that America has
lost 1000 planes and spent five
billion dollars a year on the
Korean war, which is more than
their total expenditure on educa-
tion, housing and social welfare
put together. They have done
this in no national interest, but
for idealism, the United Nations
and collective security.”
Eden: “Last autumn the
national racehorse, with the
wrong jockey up, was cantering
away off the course. In October
the jockey was changed, and we
have now got the horse up to the
starting-gate and at least facing
the right way. But meanwhile
there has been a heavy downfall
of rain and the going is much
heavier. Nevertheless, I am still
sure that, given the qualities of
the jockey and the horse, we can
win the race.”
French Socialist party's
secretary-general, Guy Mollet:
“The whole of American aid
since the war has not sufficed to
cover our [France’s] financial
and material drain in Indo-China
alone. It follows that our con-
tribution to collective security in
the European and Atlantic
spheres requires from us a much
greater effort than that of other
countries.”
Churchill: “I am not going to
be accused of not putting every-
thing right. Even if we had the
wisdom of Solomon and power
that has never been wielded by
mortals, you cannot change in a
few months evils that have been
growing and waxing for years.”
Sir Gerald Kelly: “Leonardo
[da Vinci] must have had extra-
ordinary eyesight, and would
have made a great cricketer—
probably bowling googlies, for
he was a most ingenious man.”
John Foster Dulles: “So long
as Soviet and Chinese Com-
munist leaders can pick the time,
place and method of aggression,
anywhere in Asia, and so long as
we only rush ground troops to
meet it at the time they select,
at the place they select and with
the weapons they select, we are
at a disadvantage which can be
fatal.”


VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870. After Hours, BJ 1957.
kuv mom
6flLE|
Correspondence, invoice*/
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period
ther information
apon application
Jackson & O’Sulmvan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty, Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
St
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111,
STABILITY
The ‘ Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRANDAUERS
m
m
ted
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
What's your
m li
in wages?
4
YOUR CIVILIAN WAGE MINUS
★ Accommodation
Expenses
★ Food Costs
★ Clothing Costs
**
★ Medical, Dental and
Hospital Fees
Provision for Retirement
Holiday Travel Expenses
SERVICE WAGE £lo* PLUS
★ Free accommodation
★ Free messing of a new
high standard
★ Free initial clothing
issue
★ Free medical, dental
and hospital attention
★ Pension or gratuity on
retirement
★ Three weeks’ leave with
concessions in fares and
travelling time
* £lO is the minimum weekly pay for an 18-year-old
Serviceman who has completed 3 to 6 months basic
training. Married men receive special extra allowances.
Figure it out for yourself. You’ll be impressed by how
much you can gain as a much-needed member ot Aus-
tralia’s Fighting Forces. As well as the cash advantage,
you will enjoy the benefits of special on-the-job training
to increase skill and pay in over 100 occupations, and
continuity of engagement at all times. Think it over.
Enquire at the following without obligation:
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne: Car. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House. 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide: Richards Building.
99 Currie St. In Perth: 34 King Street. In Hobart: Franklin
Sq. In Launceston: Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Issued by the Director-General of Recruiting
PF44.112.72
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage.
“Kiss Me, Kate,” which had
the enthusiastic approval of The
Bulletin’s Melbourne critic on
this page a while ago, has moved
up to Sydney Royal, and a
crackerjack musicomedy it is.
The combined talents of William
Shakspeare, Sam and Bella
Spewack and Cole Porter applied
to the business of an actor and
actress going through a perform-
ance of the “Shrew,” what time
they are going through pretty
much the same business offstage,
with a couple of gangsters mixed
up in the cast to see that the
show goes on and the leading
man meets a gambling lOU,
make quite a hectic evening’s
entertainment, further enlivened
by the amount of crockery and
paraphernalia the leading lady
hurls about with such vigor that
even the audience has to duck.
Joy Turpin and Hayes Gordon
do very nicely with the leading
roles, although the .explosive
personality of Maggie Fitz-
Gibbon can hardly be missed,
and Alec Kellaway and Morgan
Davies as the two gangsters stick
up the audience for a good swag
of laughs. Tiptop settings, some
excellent ballet ai\d good all-
round racy production finish it
off as good, uninflated value for
one’s inflated money,
« * * *
Dilute in a pretty thin mixture
a little Coward and a little
Priestley in supernatural mood
and add some old truths about
human relationships examined at
length in dubious verse, and you
have T. S. Eliot’s “The Cocktail
Party.” An occasional cry of
human agony breaks through the
examination of a splintering
marriage and of the young
woman who goes off to
martyrdom among the cannibals,
but the device of using super-
natural “guardians” to sort out
these affairs, like some of the
other devices in the mechanics
of the play, are old and have
better use. Conceivably, the
veneer of a highly-polished per-
formance—which it presumably
had overseas—could conceal a
lot of makeshift and the worn
philosophy; the Independent
Theatre’s production at North
Sydney—with Madge Ryan,
Gillian Bunning, Verity Marina,
Russell Jarrett, O, D. Bisset,
Sonny Marshall, John Kingsley
—good though it is, doesn’t quite
conceal the truth.
!f: * % *
In a return season at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, the
Borovanskys brought back
Tschaikowsky’s “The Sleeping
Princess.” Everybody seemed
excited, the excitement spread
across the footlights and
there was more applause for
individual items than has ever
been heard at a ballet in Mel-
bourne, Paul Knatt, a Danish
importation, as the Blue Bird,
seemed to leap higher than any
previous exponent, and although
he didn’t exactly leap out of one
wing into the other like Nijinsky
he was so remarkably easy and
graceful when he shivered his
legs together that he got more
recalls than an operatic prima
donna gets after singing “Vissi
d’arte.” The best test of ballet
is that you can forget the music
in the dancing and the dancing
in the music, and that happened
to the present writer on more
than one occasion.
Music.
Only the most superbly-
equipped singer could go
unfalteringly through an exact-
ing programme ranging from
Handel to Rachmaninoff, from
Schubert to Moussorgsky, and
then finish a bracket of encores
by giving Schubert’s “Ave
Maria,” which, sung mezza voce
throughout, is combined with the
legato phrasing, the most
severe test extant. Yet Dorothy
Maynor’s voice was as fresh and
as flawless in this as in a
similarly cast song—Handel's
“O Sleep, Why Dost Thou Leave
Me?” with which she opened up
proceedings at her second
Sydney recital. There was a
particularly fine Schubert group;
“Gretchen am Spinnrade,” in
which the singer had the benefit
of a spinning-wheel accompani-
ment wrought with facility and
fidelity by Henri Penn at the
keyboard—here and elsewhere
he has followed the vocal line
with the dexterity, anticipation
and sympathy one has come to
expect of him ; “The Erl King,”
rendered with great emotion,
and the employment of differ-
ently pitched voices to represent
the father, the little son and the
Erl King; and the lovely
“Wanderer’s Night Song.” One
of the best Russian songs
heard for a long time was
Tschaikowsky’s little-heard “Tell
Me Why”; Moussorgsky’s
“Hopak” was a gem. Some
Debussy songs were of extreme
delicacy, but at the succeeding
concert four songs by Poulenc
were anything but attractive
these were melodically poverty-
stricken.
* * * *
Leone Stredwick, who had a
respectable piano technique
before her venture overseas,
made it clear at her first Sydney
recital since she returned that
not only has this phase of her
art acquired greater polish and
finesse but, more important, her
interpretative ability has greatly
increased. This was quite
evident in the Beethoven Sonata
Op. 2 No. 2. While this has
few of the spectacular dynamics
which mark the later works in
this form, it calls for more than
Mozartian elegance, for here the
innovator was at work. The
chords are bigger and weightier;
but the true essence of Beethoven
was captured by Miss Stredwick
in the slow movement, in which
the elements of mystery and
pathos and solemnity were well
blended. Schumann’s Fantasia
Op. 17, two fine pieces of
Couperin and some rather
angular Dances in Bulgarian
Rhythm of Bartok were success-
fully negotiated; then came the
best playing of the night with
Chopin’s F Minor Ballade,
probably his greatest work. This
has the big ideas, the depth and
breadth of the first movement
of a sonata, and thus was the
conception stressed by the
pianist.
* * * *
Michael Rabin, the 16-year-
old violin virtuoso, continued to
attract Melbourne in not-over-
whelming numbers to the Town
Hall with his extraordinarily
facile playing and a technique
that was equal to anything, from
a Vivaldi-Respighi sonata to a
Chopin nocturne. If his tone
did not always sound as firm in
the Town Hall as it does on the
records that preceded his arrival,
that may have to do with the
conditions. As a copyist and a
memoriser it would be difficult
to fault him, and there is every
indication that he will be
spiritually grown-up the next
time Melbourne meets him.
Art.
There is a cleverness about
the French and Italian drawings
of Donald Friend at the Peter
Bray Gallery in Melbourne, but
it doesn’t seem to be a clever-
ness which is based on observa-
tion. It is more the cleverness
of a convention. His “Death,
Youth and the Maiden,” in
which a skeleton is thrusting its
scaffolding between a nude girl
and boy who don’t seem parti-
cularly perturbed by the appari-
tion, suggests that the artist has
been looking not at life, but at
somebody else’s pictures. The
same can’t be said of the shows
of Harley Griffiths at the
Athenaeum and of Graeme Inson
at Tye’s Gallery. They stem
more or less directly from Max
Meldrum. Graeme Inson applies
his analytical method to a
succession of Tasmanian land-
scapes more successfully than
he does to his nudes and
portraits. There is a chalkiness
about No. 29, the nude study of
a woman, that is repeated in his
portrait of his master. Harley
Griffiths, whose father was a
pupil of the same master, is more
speculative, and he “specs” a
good one in a small portrait.
* * * ■ *
Devoted observation of
Cezanne, Picasso and others is
more obvious in the Sydney
Group’s exhibition at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, than
any observation of nature. D.
Orban’s “At Bundanoon,” a
landscape with touches of cubism
for strength, and his sombre
“Village Church, Hungary,”
have their usual dark and gloomy
attraction ; Drysdale has a large,
raw and simple “Rocky Land-
scape,” and Francis Lymburner
a watery but bright “Backstage”
and a rather murky “Beach
Pony Tent.” The N. S. Wales
National Gallery, apparently in
a prodigal mood, has bought one
of the Orbans, “The Last
Supper” by Justin O’Brien, and
Donald Friend’s sensitive but
slight “Boy and Girl.” “Miller’s
Point, Morning,” another of
John Passmore’s excursions into
Cezanne, has also been bought
for presentation to the gallery
under the terms of the Marshall
Trust.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
R. 8.: Spirit pleasing; verse needs
color In style, except for
some jerkiness, you seem to be on
the right track; in theme you’ll prob-
ably have more to say when you get
back from outer space to the Aus-
tralian earth G.L.: A poem as
topical as that is out-of-date the next
day Bellerive: Blow in:—
A Windy Day.
In crossing a road
Did add to my plight.
My legs did sway
Like the tail of a kite.
When snug at home
I did gladly enjoy
A mashed potato
And a hot saveloy.
....Billiam W.: “This epic was
written whilst sitting by the tire.”
You tempt us P.W.: “With the
continued news of world-wide floods,
tornadoes and volcanic eruptions, the
latest of which was so near at hand
when in January, 1951, Mt. Laming-
ton erupted with such tragic results—
with these terrestrial phenomena in
mind, I have attempted to write
some lines which I have captioned
‘Eternity.’ ” We thought something
like that was coming L.T.0.:
Homely sentiment about old teapots
not quite our cup of tea... :
“The Clock” was right enough but
not striking enough... .L.M.A.: Not
a bad story, but we have got
past the stage of the stage-irishman.
R.I.T.: Well, if storytellers, like
human beings, grow through the his-
tory of their species, you have arrived
at about the Stone Age.


PTC
ri»VEST«£»T O HHM
DEATH DUTIES
BEAL ESTATE SIOCH 1 ST AT 10 H (
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UT7B
Your Estate will be Safer
in these Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not ot one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Aibury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bankers & Traders Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1945 .. 40,634 8$ p.c. = 12,422 28,212 346,276
To reserve unexpired risk, £3OOO . . 349,276
1946 .. 41,243 9 p.c. = 13,716 27,527 376,803
To reserve unexpired risk, £5OOO .. 381,803
1947 .. 35,213 9 p.c..= 17,097 18,116 399,919
To reserve unexpired risk, £40,000 .. 439,919
From inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. 449,919
1948 .. 37,789 9$ p.c. = 18,641 19,148 469,067
To reserve unexpired risk, £75,500 .. 544,567
Tax refunds, etc. £25,000 . . .. 569,567
1949 .. 42,156 12$ p.c. = 24,528 17,628 587,195
To reserve unexpired risk, £78,500 . . 665,695
1950 .. 55,422 ,12$ p.c. = 26,367 29,055 694,750
To reserve unexpired risk, £54,000 . . 748,750
1951 .. 53,062 121 p.c. = 30,660 22,402 771,152
To reserve unexpired risk, £50,000 . . 821,152
1952 .. 23,571 12$ p.c. = 30,660 814,063
Like others in the fire, marine and
accident field, this soundly-established
31-year-old Sydney-controlled office,
which has world-wide connections, ran
into a sticky patch last term. An un-
usually heavy loss experience, worst since
the early 1930’5, was the trouble. It
occurred mainly in connection with
motor-vehicle and third-party risks in
Australia and Canada. The co. was also
involved in some heavy claims arising out
of the Jamaica hurricane in August, 1951,
and because of hailstorms in Westralia,
while the claims experience in India has
caused concern, too
The business continued to expand, both
inside and outside Australia. Net
premium income, which has nearly
quadrupled over the last seven years,
increased by £240,446:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
£
1939.. 224,287 132,110 77,277 58.9 p.c. 34.4 p.c.
1945.. 342,481 163,893 146,788* 47.8 „ 42.9
1947.. 453,884 224,709 169,815* 49.5 „ 37 4
1948.. 643,734 351,417 197,597* 54.6 „ 30.7 „
1949.. 839,797 440,936 299,460* 52.5 „ 35.6 ,
1950.. 934,367 493,304 357,09.2* 52.8 „ 38.2 „
1951.1,096,804 618,732 403,770* 56.4 „ 36 9
1952. 1,337,250 814,315 529,596* 60.9 „ 39.6 „
* Excludes tax on investment income.
The year’s heavy losses (up £195,583) and
growth in exes, (up £125,826) gobbled all
the gain from net premiums and £80,963
besides. The result was a gross under-
writing loss of £6661 as against a gross
underwriting profit of £74,302 for the
1951 term. The net return from invest-
ments was £30,232 (up £1472), leaving
the profit from all sources at £23,571, as
shown in the introductory table. That
was before making any allowance for
unexpired risks, for which an amount
equal to 40 p.c. of net premiums is usually
earmarked. The position in this respect
was adjusted by transferring from general
reserve to p. and 1. £lOO,OOO, of which
£95,000 was added to the unexpired-risks
reserve, making it £535,000, or 40 p.c. of
net premium income.
A year ago the chairman said the 2\ p.c.
bonus, which had been sent out with the
10 p.c. div. since 1949, should not be
regarded as an indicatign of future divi-
dend policy. Still, the p.c. was
repeated last term, and it looks like being
more than covered by the current term's
net return from investments alone. Its
repetition for the year to March 31, 1953,
will depend largely upon the underwrit-
ing experience, which has been, and still
is, best in the fire and marine sections.
Although premium rates for motor-
vehicle and third-party business have
been substantially increased over the last
12 months, it is still doubtful whether the
resultant increase in income will out-
strip the continued growth of claims,
owing to the mounting tide of motor
accidents, heavy damages awarded by
juries and still-rising cost of repairs. Re-
current wage-lifts will make operating
costs difficult to restrain, too. How-
ever, experience shows that the theory of
averages works well in the long-run.
This, together with the return from
investments, enhances the investment pos-
sibilities of the scrip as a holding proposi-
tion.
Policyholders and shareholders are
both well protected:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. .. £245,281 £245,281 £245,281
Sundry creditors* .. 205,920 176,360 257,560
Outstanding claims, etc. 364,615 457,028 566,564
Freeholds .. . . 234,783 265,343 308,059
Government securities. . 499,864 523,233 585,796
Advances co-ops.f . . 157,794 145,583 195,372
Shares subsids. .. 69,995 69,995 69,995
Shares other cos. .. 131,943 182,928 247,351
Book debts, etc. . . 362,209 363,673 408,911
Cash 124,534 167,462 8Q.379
* Includes provision for taxation. t Advances to
building co-op. societies'.
Last term’s additions of £62,563 to Gov-
ernment securities, £49,789 to advances to
co-operative building societies and £64,423
to shares in other cos. augur well for the
return from investments.
Not only does the market expect the
12i p.c. distribution to be maintained,
but it is prepared to wait for further bene-
fits. After sales at 475. 6d. (60s. early
in 1952), buyers recently offered 425. for
the pound shares paid to 12s. 6d. each.
At the middle figure of 445. 9d. the
immediate return is only 3.5 p.c. on a
12i p.c. distribution.
Noyes Bros. (Melb.), Ltd.
To Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Noyes Bros. & Subsidiaries.
1942 .. 21,792 12$p.c.= 15,071 6,721 21,666
1943 . . 21,214 12j „ „ 15,071 6,143 27,809
Added capital reserve, £1994 .. .. 29,803
1944 . . 22,321 12$p.c.= 16,571 5,750 35,553
1945 .. 25,754 124 ~ „ 20,071 5,683 41,236
Reserves.
1946 . . 29,722 124 „ „ 20,071 9,651 50,887
Added capital reserve, £l4B .. .. 51,035
1947 .. 33,910 13Jp.c.= 22,078 11,832 62,867
Share premiums, £29,626 .. .. “j
From tax & contingencies pro- 1
visions, £28,000 .. .. .. |
Profit, sale of property, £909 .. J
121,402
1948 . . 72,645 17$p.c.= 28,457 44,188 165,590
Share premiums, £137 165,727
1949 .. 77,830 20 p.c. = 36,200 41,630 207,857
1950 . . 100,784 20 „ „ 36,200 64,723 271,941
Reserves capitalised, £28,960 . . 242,981
Profit sale assets, £llO4 .. .. 244,085
1951 . . 125,084 20 p.c.= 63,450 64,634 305,719
1952 .. 144,161 20 „ „ 74,282 69,879 375,598
Reserves are shown here after deducting goodwill
( £19,500).
This engineering, electrical and builders’-
hardware manufacturing and merchan-
dising organisation has been a very good
profit-earner and dividend-payer ever
since the public became interested in
1936, when the present co. took over
from the then 49-year-old proprietary
of the same name. The manage-
ment made the most of its opportuni-
ties in a sheltered and expanding post-
war market. Since 1947 £334,648 has
been added to issued capital, including
£28,960 of bonus-scrip, the balance being
for cash, mostly at par. At April 30,
1952, the issued total stood at £495,216,
of which £92,853 —10s. on each of
185,706 £1 shares put out in Jan., 1951 —
was still to come in. At the same date
reserves totalled £375,598, after deducting
£19,500 of goodwill. The div., which
averaged 14.7 p.c. for the 16 years to the
close of last accounts, was steady at
20 p.c. for the last four of them.
The parent holds 33 British and four
U.S. agencies covering a wide range of
lifting, mining and electrical equipment
and a number of non-ferrous metal pro-
ducts, etc. It also owns three manufac-
turing subsidiaries —Metalex Pty., which
turns out brass rods, wire and sections ;
Ogden Industries Pty., which makes
builders’ hardware, lawnmowers, etc., and
Australian Die Casting Pty., which
specialises in zinc alloy die castings. The
products of these offshoots have won
markets outside as well as inside Aus-
tralia, where the main field of activities
is the three southern States and Westralia.
Last term all units of the group con-
tributed to a substantial increase in turn-
over, the gains from which took care of
the now-ugly costs problem. The net
result was £19,077 stronger at £144,161.
That was after allowing £24,673 (down
£4656) for depreciation, £132,500 (up
£20,500) for taxation and sending some-
thing to the staff fund. The £144,161 was
38.8 p.c. on average capital compared
with 39.4, 59.5, 43, 44.6 and 21.1 p.c.
back to 1947. When the £92,853 of un-
called capital is got in, a 20 p.c. div. will
call for £99,043, or £45,118 less profit
than was claimed last term.
The feature of balance-sheet figures
was the growth in stocks (up £376,756),
due to early deliveries from overseas,
bigger output of the manufacturing off-
shoots, rising prices and slacker demands
for some lines toward the close of
accounts:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £lBl,OOO £256,680 £355,936 £402,363
Creditors* . . 346,762 411,432 367,327 612,483
Tax provision 131,482 136,587 134,343 190,206
Final dividend 22,625 22,625 40,236 47,587
Freeholds . . 53,650 70,470 71,370 108,374
Plant, fittings 56,277 51,817 58,094 94,851
Stocks . . 357,410 341,740 392,461 769,217
Debtors . . 420,465 606,466 588,833 656,317
Cash, etc. . . 2,407 840 93,936 630
Goodwill .. 19,500 19,500 19,500 19,500
* Includes overdraft.
On fixed assets £73,761 more was spent
than was written off, and book-debts
increased by £67,484. To help meet total
outlay shareholders put up £46,427 of
fresh capital and £245,156 was added to
the outside debt, which amounted to
15s. 9d. for every pound belonging to
shareholders in the business when the
books closed. The suggestion there is
that it might not be long before the
uncalled capital is asked for.
The wide ramifications of the organisa-
tion augur well for maintenance of a
satisfactory level of turnover. At the
moment the major problem facing the
co., and the whole community, is how to
correct the inflationary effects of wage-
increases in excess of the rise in produc-
tivity. To the extent that traders are
unable to compensate these wage-lifts by
higher selling-prices and/or savings else-
where in their business —and the limit to
which this is possible appears to have
been reached —profits will suffer, and so
will returns to the Treasury at an even
rate of tax. Investors will have a better
idea of the likely trend of costs after the
Budget is presented to Parliament this
week.
The market prices the f.-p. pound shares
at 61s. (85s. a year ago) to return 6.5 p.c.
on a 20 p.c. distribution, or 4.9 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. The lOs.-paid contribs.
at 465. 9d. are worth consideration.
Including uncalled capital, net tangible
cover is 345. 4d. per share.
Brooklands Accessories Ltd. ( Melb.)
Brooklands Accessories and Subsidiary,
Dividends N
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. r~ —*Ord. , serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
1946 .. 13,409 1750 10 4,500 24,736
Goodwill increased, £BOOO . . . . 16,736
1947 .. 13,405 1750 12$ 8,715 19,676
From tax provision, £11,814 .. 31,490
1948 .. 34,456 1750 12$ 8,716 55,480
Share premiums, £22,087 .. .. 1
Unexplained addtn. to res., £14,264 I
From tax provisions, £2006 .. .. |
Net intangibles of new subsids., £5605 J
88,232
1949 .. 42,037 1750 12$ 11,871 116,648
Share premiums, £13,121 .. .. 129.769
Surplus sale assets, £lOOl .. .. 130,770
1950 .. 50,201 1750 15 14,245 164,976
Share premiums, £10,517 .. .. 175,493
Revaluation assets, £13,335 .. .. 188^828
Surplus sale assets, £634 .. .. 189,462
Capitalisation reserves, £35,561 .. 153,901
1951 . . 75,613 1750 17$ 24,892 202,872
Share premiums, £21,035 . . . . 223,907
From tax reserve, etc., £1597 .. 225,504
1952 ..109,993 1750 17$ 38,478 295,269
* After deducting intangibles (now £20,682).
An extraordinarily good showing con-
sidering the difficulties. And, although
the development has been very rapid and
some recession in net earnings can be
expected, the outlook for shareholders
is as satisfactory as anything of the kind
can be for this class of business in an
economy which is readjusting itself to
changing conditions.
The parent and subsidiaries, which trade
mainly in Victoria and N. S. Wales,
handle some well-known and valuable
wholesale agencies (local and overseas)
for motor-vehicle replacement parts,
accessories and garage equipment. Last
term the co. was appointed a distributor
in N. S. Wales for spares and accessories
fitted to G.M.-H; vehicles, including the
Holden. An engineering section, engaged
in auto-engine and -clutch rebuilding,
electrical and carburettor servicing, etc.i
contributes to the pool, too, and so does
Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., a sub-
sidiary which handles the Lucas electrical
equipment with which many makes of
British cars are fitted.
Shareholders have fared well. For the
five years to 1952 the ords. received
a steady 8 p.c., followed by four
lots of 10 p.c., three of p.c.,
one of 15 p.c. and two of \l\ p.c.
And more has been ploughed back into
the business than has been distributed.
Paid capital, which includes £25,000 of
7 p.c. pref. money, shot up from £70,000
in 1946 to £244,875 at the close of last
accounts. The difference (£174,875) in-
cludes £35,561 of bonus-scrip, the balance
being put up in cash, together with £66,760
of share premiums, which takes some of
the gilt off the gingerbread.
Last term expanding turnover again
more than took care of the costs problem,
which now threatens to become an in-
creasingly difficult nut to crack. The im-
provement in the year’s gross profit of
parent and subsidiaries (£434,308) was
£101,077. After allowing for depreciation
(£7485, down £7166), taxation (£98,500,
up £22,521), and minor adjustments, the
net result benefited by £34,380 of the
gain, reaching £109,993. The pref. div.
called for £1750, and the remaining
£108,243 was equal to 49.2 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 51.9, 50.1, 42.4,
47 and 25.9 p.c. back to 1947. So nothing
had to be strained to repeat the \l\ p.c.
distribution, of which p.c. is labelled
bonus. That left £69,765 (63.4 p.c.) of
the year’s net earnings to plough back
into the business, thus lifting tangible
reserves (after deducting goodwill, etc.,
£20,632) £50,394 higher than paid capital.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the finances :
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £119,967 £146,209 £202,805 £244,875
Creditors, etc. 57,536 145,169 170,018 224,077
Tax provision 30,915 33,500 99,216 162,093
Final divs. . . 7,998 10,372 19.707 28,359
Freeholds .. 26,788 42,288 61,794 89,517
Leaseholds . . 17,055 16,574 16,095 15,614
Plant and fit-
tings . . 15,694 22,261 24,946 41,735
Stocks . . 161,038 236,118 290,937 484,678
Debtors . , 104,912 181.810 300,309 313,762
Cash . . . . 7,148 483 546 9,378
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid-surplus (£393,289) was £91,438, due
partly to introduction of £42,070 of fresh
share capital. Stocks (up £193,741) appear
at cost or market-value. Additions
to the Sydney warehouse helped to send
freeholds up by £27,723.
At 48s. 4d. (61s. 6d. a year ago) the
ords. return 7.2 p.c. so long as the dis-
tribution remains at p.c., or 4.9 p.c.
should the distribution drop to 12 p.c.
The prefs. at 265. yield 5.4 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £2l 12s. prefs. and
465. lOd. ords.
Engineering Supply Co. (Bris.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends——,, serves. serves.
£££ ' £
1948.. 46,750 10 p.c. = 27,500
19,250 148,004
1949.. 50,500 10 „ „ 27,500 I
To staff funds, £3OOO .. |
20,0 0 0 1 68,004
1950.. 67,289 12$ p.c. = 34,375 {
To staff funds, £3918 .. j
28,996 197,000
1951.. 79,875 12$ p.c. = 34,375 \
To staff funds, £5OOO .. j
40,500 237,500
Unexplained reduction, £l5OO
. . 236,000
1952.. 74,375 12$ p.c. = 34,375 1
To staff funds, £30,000 .. ]
10,000 246,000
This old-established and well-entrenched
Brisbane machinery and engineering-
supply merchant,«with branches at Rock-
hampton and Townsville, has always
been a profit-earner and dividend-payer.
It came through the troublesome 1930’5,
when the engineering trade was one of
the hardest hit, without failing to make
a distribution. The rate, which had
dropped to 2 p.c. in 1933, climbed to
8 p.c. in 1939, remained steady for the
next eight years, rose to 10 p.c, for the


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone; MX 2208.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNXEB STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL,
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
Now Open
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
CASH and CONVERSION
LOAN
No. 84
CA/ld''.
& ti per annum
Issued at Par—Currency 10 years
GUARANTEED BY THE NEW SOUTH WALES
GOVERNMENT
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN
QUEENSLAND, N.S.W. AND TASMANIA
Subscriptions are free of exchange
Interest is payable half-yearly, free of exchange, in terms
of the Prospectus and may be credited to your current
or savings bank account.
CONVERSIONS
Holders of Inscribed Stock or Debentures of Loan
No. 35, which matures on Ist September, 1952,
can continue to obtain £4/10/-% per annum by
converting their holdings to this new Loan.
Don'f Delay
Apply at any branch of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia or through a Stockbroker.
The Loan is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members
of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne, and will close on
or before 26th August, 1952.
WBI2A-52
Personal and Missing Friend.
McNEILL. —ANY person claiming to be
next-of-kin of JOHN McNEILL, son of
NEAL McNEILL and ELIZA McNEILL,
formerly GLENHOLMES, who was born at
Belfast,'Northern Ireland, on 17/11/1874,
and married ALEXANDRIA BURTON,
formerly MeKENZIE, at Melbourne, on
25/3/1914, should immediately contact
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR VICTORIA,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD MARSHALL late of Coogee.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARTHA ELLENA
MARSHALL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 413 of 1952 on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 17th October 1952 and
obtain free copy Petition from DENSLEY
& DOWNING, Solicitors, of 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GRACE WILLIAMS late of Klngsford.
—TAKE NOTICE that HERBERT
GEORGE. WILLIAMS has filed Petition
No- 2376 of 1952 for divorce on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry King
Street Sydney by the 17th day of October
1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. O. PAYNTER,
Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney..
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Telephones: PA 2176 (3 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientes, Briabana
CORPSE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
THIS IS THE BANK YOU OWN
o'*' 1
£sV
t m
n*
rs
&
o
|-r
vt
quality o£ service rendered by
any bank depends mainly on
the staff—the men and women who conduct
the business of the bank’s clients. Behind
the scenes in the Commonwealth Bank the
careful training of the staff is going on
continuously. You may be certain, therefore,
that in this bank officers attending to your
needs know banking from A to Z and can
handle your business speedily and efficiently.
In addition the Commonwealth Bank
employs highly trained specialists whose
knowledge covers the many aspects of
finance and economics. These officers are
all working in your interests.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
C.G.8.28-82
in
i
W
I
1
■a
.r=.
m
'&
m
the name is
CD'Collum’s
the whisky is
Distilled and blended in Scotland
*'v ;}i
MIO
next two and to 12| p.c. for the
three years to the close of last
accounts.
Paid capital has remained
steady at £275,000 since 1938,
the declared aim being to
stabilise post-war turnover at a
“reasonable level which could
be maintained rather than strive
for ever-increasing sales.” Still,
the pressure of inflation and
expanding industrial activity in
the northern State drove the
figures along, and gross earnings
climbed faster than operating
costs.
A “large” increase in sales last
term lifted profit before tax to a
record £147,210 (up £8473). It
was the tax slug (£72,835, up
£13,973) that pulled the net figure
(£74,375) back by £5500. Still,
the £74,375 was equal to 27 p.c.
on capital as against 29, 24.5,
18.3 and 17 p.c. back to 1948.
Of the £40,000 left after paying
the div., £30,000 was earmarked
for various staff benefits, includ-
ing long-service leave, a new and
statutory element in costs. The
other £lO,OOO lifted reserves to
£246,000.
Early delivery of orders, local
and overseas, at higher prices
sent stocks up by £128,862. To
meet the outlay and carry an
extra £13,795 of book-debts the
co. increased the outside debt by
£68,886:
1950 - 1951 ‘ 1952>
& & &
Paid cap itai .. 275,000 275,000 275,000
Creditors and
Ta Ttssio™ I ffiS ffilS xoffl
staff funds .. e.oss 10,000 15,000
Final divs. .. ,20.025 20.025 20025
aAd ’ w ’
vehicles .. 10,072 12,548 13,924
stocks .. 3°2,469 394,848 520,710
Debtg _ 181,865225,330239,125
Cash, invest-
ments 135 - 980 86.882 55,544
The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£491,109)
was £36,695. Stocks appear at
or below cost and debtors’
balances less something for bad
and doubtful debts. -
For the current term trading
promises to be more difficult,
and some contraction in net
earnings can be expected ; much
Wl |] depend upon what happens
in connection with prices and
costs. However, it is not
expected that the final figure will
f a p s h o rt of the p.c. div.
requirements. The pound shares,
w hich reached a peak of 535. 6d.
j n 1951 were recently offered at
395. 3d., at which figure the
return i s 6.3 p.c. on a 12* p.c.
fl( v< basis. Excluding staff funds,
net tangible cover is 375. lOd.
Takuapa Valley Tin
~ ... ; n
Despite a big increase in Lie
average price of tin, there WR’S a
c ran AAQ in ne>t
contraction ot £42,449 in net
earnings of this Sydney-
controlled Siamese tin-dredger
Controlled Siamese lin ureUfoCi
IOT me year tO IABC. J l, lyjl.
That was because its tWO bucket
dredges, in the Takuapa River
area, turned over less and lower-
grade ground at higher cost:
Av.
Value Div.t
Treated, t. 0.. Profit. (9.4 /o)
c.y. lb.* £ £
1949 .. 3856'. 0.22 15,113 21,222
>°)
1950 .. 2990 0.43 139,950 31,250
1951 .. 2755 0.29 97,601 50,000
* Per c.y. t Percentage in stg.
Recovery of tin-ore, assay 74 p.c.
metallic tin, was 360.67 tons
(down 218 tons), which realised
an average of £619.49 (up
£185.9) per ton. Reduced to the
cubic yard unit it all worked out
in this way:
Working
Value. Cost. Profit.
1950 .. 20.17 d. 8.20 d. 11.97 d.
1951 . . 19.46 d. 10.96 d. 8.50 d.
Hence the drop in total net
profit. Still, the £97,501 was
equal to ss. 9.6 d. per pound
share, and 4s. (stg.) per share
was distributed as against 2s. 6d.
(stg.) in 1951.
For the six months to June 30,
1952, jhe two machines con-
tinued in relatively poor ground,
together turning over 1,415,000
c.y. for 155 tons t.o. During the
same period two divs. each of
Is. a share were paid. London
average spot-price of tin per ton
for the six months was £5969.8
as against an average of £S 1079.8
for the 12 months of 1951. Last
week the figure stood at £5967.8.
What the future of the tin market
is likely to be is anybody’s guess
at the moment.
The chairman sums up the
outlook for the co. in this way :
As during the next two or three
years returns may not be more than
sufficient to provide for quarterly
dividends your directors have decided
to conserve the funds on hand to
assist in meeting the heavy expenses
associated with the dismantling,
removal and re-erection of No. 1
dredge and the establishment of the
bungalows, workshop, office premises,
etc., at the new camp to be erected
on the northern area.
No. 2 dredge, which is now dig-
ging its way downstream, is
expected to enter the northern
area during the last half of 1953.
No. 1, after dismantling in 1954,
is scheduled to be in operation
there during 1955.
Yardage ahead of the two
machines in their current operat-
ing areas is as follows:
Yardage. Value.
No. 1 . . 3,035,000 c.y. 0.431 b.
550,000 ~ unpayable*
No. 2 .. 1,790,000 c.y. 0.501 b.
1,500,000 „ unpayable*
* Tailings to be crossed.
The northern area contains
35,000,000 c.y. of 0.5251 b.
ground, and is divided into
approximately two equal blocks.
No. 2 machine is to work the
southern and No. 1 the northern
half.
When the books closed cash
and investments totalled
£391,964. Other current assets
(spares, stores, debtors, etc.)
totalled £62,618, and current
liabilities £62,571. So the co.
can probably finance the
transfer, including the building
of a new pontoon for No. 1
dredge, out of its own resources.
In the market the co.’s pound
shares, which dropped to 18s. 6d.
in 1950 and rose to a peak of
325. 6d. in 1951, recently fetched
265. 6d.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO SIGWARD GEORGE RAYMOND CALLAN late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY KATH-
LEEN CALLAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2572 of 1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 20th day of October 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from E. G.
SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK ERNEST MILLS late of 56 John
Street Newtown N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that RITA
PATRICIA MILtS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3820 of 1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at Hie Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 17th day of October 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from M. B.
GILES, Solicitor, of No. 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO CYRIL LYNN SLOANE late of Temora.—TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN WINIFRED SLOANE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3595 of 1951 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 13th day
of October 1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Messrs. GEOFFREY SEE
GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, of 18-20 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,’ Registrar.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Led by Sir Herbert Olney, a group of
well-known businessmen are sponsoring
an appeal for £50,000 for the Queen
Elizabeth Maternal and Child Welfare
Centre in Carlton. The 92-year-old
once-depressing building has been re-
designed and is now a modern home, very
cheerful-looking, due largely to the pastel
paint which has been used throughout,
as well as the many wide windows and
the brilliant, unusual furnishings. Mothers
and babies from all over the State come
to this Centre. Out of it, bound for the
300 centres throughout Victoria run by
the Baby Health Centres’ Association, go
the sisters who have completed their
training. Dr. Doris Officer, who is hon.
sec. of the V.8.H.C.A., says that mothers
leaving hospital four or five days after
their babies’ birth can come to the Centre,
After a stay at the Centre these mothers
go home rested, confident and equipped
to care for the babes. Sir Herbert Olney
and his committee recently gave a buffet-
luncheon at the Centre. Mrs. Colin
Mackay, whose husband is a member of
the committee, and Mrs. Hylton Dale
were hostesses. A surprise visit by
actress Jessie Matthews was one of the
features of a very pleasant occasion.
Although the glamorous and romantic
nylon models shown at the Julius Kayser
parade are not obtainable while import
restrictions remain, the lovely budget-
priced garments available during the
coming season are just as glamorous.
Many of these are trimmed with nylon
tulle, Alenqon lace and permanently-
pleated nylon. One brassiere-topped slip
of white celanese had a deep edging of
white Duchess lace on the bra-top and
hemline. The hip-slip was seefi in all its
femininity in pink-dawn celanese, finished
with a deep flounce of niched nylon tulle.
From a nightgown, inspired from a
Chartreuse nylon made in America, new
ideas were gathered. It was made in
celanese and had needlerun lace outlining
the plunge neckline and forming tiny
sleeves. Broderie anglaise was used to
make an unusual gilet bodice and epaulet
sleeves on a demure nightgown of forget-
me-not blue.
Perhaps the loveliest of the Australian-
made garments was the nightgown of
white celanese printed in dawn-pink-and-
grey poppies. With it went a matching
negligee cut on flowing lines from a
shaped yoke in front, while the back fell
in deep flares to be gathered at will with
a rouleau tie. Highlight of the Parade
was “South Pacific” briefs which will be
on sale on Sept 13 to coincide with the
opening of the play at His Majesty’s.
These were of white celanese and printed
with scenes and song-titles from the
musical in Pacific-pink and white. In the
overseas collection were nightgowns (more
like ball gowns). These were named
Violets in the Snow, Rhinestone (in aqua
nylon, diamond-smocked at the waist with
rhinestones). Golden Night (of white
nylon printed with a gold-leaf design),
Manhattan (containing pleated-nylon in
midnight-blue), Carnation (an extrava-
gantly-styled double-skirted model
trimmed with nylon carnations and em-
broidery), and Starry Night (of sheer
midnight-blue nylon spangled with gold
stars).
Few women can claim that they learned
to cook without going near a stove. Yet
that is exactly how Margaret Murdoch
did learn. She went to Paris just before
the war to study dress-designing and was
caught in that city during the German
occupation. Cooped up at night, because
of the curfew, with very little to eat and
no heat in the house, Margaret borrowed
the collection of old cookery-books owned
by the woman who ran the pension
where she was living, and studied them
in bed. When she did begin to cook
Margaret had, as it were, a flying start,
and so proficient has she since become in
the kitchen that her friends have per-
suaded her to form a club, so on the
night of Afigust 15, at 9 p.m., the Club
D’Orsay opens at the Eden Cabaret, St.
Kilda. Margaret will run her club only
on Friday nights and the charge is one
guinea per person. On the opening night,
which is already fully booked, French
food will be served, members and their
friends will dance to French rrtusic and
in this atmosphere of gay Paris speciality
artists will feature “des chansons
frangais.” Among the guests on the
opening night will be Margaret’s uncle,
Sir Keith Murdoch, his wife and a party
of their friends.
Once again the Borovansky Ballet is
enchanting audiences at His Majesty’s,
“The Sleeping Princess,” with Kathleen
Gorham dancing the role of Aurora, was
presented on the first night, and there
were many delighted children, dressed in
pretty party frocks of organdie, silk and
tulle, in the audience. There were
more short frocks than formal evening
gowns. Very smart was the apricot-satin
brocade worn by Mrs J. Bacon. A frock
of crimson velvet was worn by Mrs. Beryl
Hadley. Mrs. Fred Dennett’s trained
gown was of black velvet. A black jersey
bodice sequin-embroidered and a black
tulle ballerina skirt made smart effect for
Mrs. Ron Marriott. Mrs. Noel Hum-
phreys wore a black-fringed, red jersey
shawl over her black gown. Elizabeth
Cresswell’s girlish gown was of pastel-
pink embroidered organza. Mrs. John
Mollard wore a beautifully-embroidered
off-shoulder ballerina frock.
This Angus Mcßean photo is of
Catherine Hale-Monroe, daughter of
Jessie Matthews, who is here while her
mother stars in “Larger Than Life” at
the Princess. When Catherine left school
she attended the Farnham Arts College,
for she thinks she would like to be an
artist. However, as she has been travel-
ling for the past two years she has had
very little time for a career. While in
this city she has joined up with the Little
Theatre group and is appearing in Irene
Mitchell’s production of Charlotte
Hastings’s three-act play “Bonaventure,”
a mystery drama set in the serene atmos-
phere of a convent hospital. Catherine
has the part of Nurse Brent.
Over a cheery cup of tea at the Hotel
Windsor Lady Angliss, president of the
Children’s Welfare Association of Vic-
toria, talked of plans for the annual
Wattle Day Appeal, which is being
organised for Friday, August 15. But the
appeal has grown so large that this year
the executive committee has asked the
Lord Mayor’s Fund to conduct it. Many
organisations will assist in the sale of
badges. Two champion sellers,
Mesdames G. Williams and A. E. Prahl,
will be out again: last year each raised
more than £2OO from the sale of badges.
There will be stalls in the streets;
members of the Tweddle Hospital Central
Auxiliary are conducting a lucky dip in
conjunction with their stall, and another
group of women is arranging a stall for
the Sutherland Homes. Lady Angliss was
assisted at the afternoon-tea party by
her niece, May Angliss,
Wearing a gorgeous national costume
of emerald-green and gold satin brocade,
Madame Liu received with her husband,
the Chinese Consul, the many guests in-
vited to a cocktail-party at their Balwyn
home. Guest-of-honor was the recently-
arrived Vice-Consul, Mr. S. C. Chang.
Members of the consular service were
among the guests and included M. Sirot,
the French consul, and his pretty wife,
who topped her black ensemble with a
pastel-pink feather-cap. With Com-
mander Robert Macklin, the U.S. Naval
Attache, was Mrs. Macklin, who wore a
feather-trimmed hat with her black crepe
ensemble. The U.S. Consulate was
represented by J. Toman and Mrs.
Toman. Among well-known Chinese
citizens at the party were Mr. and Mrs.
Wing Dan; Mrs. T. K. Chan, whose
royal-blue satin national dress was pat-
terned with gold leaves; Mrs. Chiang-
Tsiang, in wine-toned crepe; Mrs.
L. Shue, who wore floral silks with silver-
fox furs; and Jessie Ling, attractive in a
junior-blue jacket-suit. Mrs. John Ink-
ster, whose ballerina frock of black
taffeta was patterned in emerald-green,
was with her father, Lord Mayor O. J.
Nilsen, and her husband. Mrs. W. J.
Jungwirth’s old-gold jersey frock was
worn with a small black hat. Mrs.
Norman Strange wore a striking scarlet
coat.
From Svdnev
t, , *, ’ 4c . . u . . ..
Perhaps the gayest first-night since the
war was the opening of “Kiss Me Kate
at the Royal on Saturday. Half an hour
before the show the audience (which
positively glittered) milled round the foyer
in a congestion as great as, though much
more genial than, the ring at Randwick.
Sue Playfair accompanied Elizabeth
Northcott, whose dress was of cream
brocade printed with pink roses. Mrs.
Mel Lawton’s navy nylon sprinkled with
guipure-lace appliques was notable. Mrs.
Michael Boggs wore blue lace over a
pink accordion-pleated ballerina. Mrs.
ri. J. Brady was striking in red. Mrs.
C. R. McKenhan wore blue crepe with
lavish beading round the neckline. Mrs.
Lionel McFadyen s black taffeta was
trimmed with turquoise. The spirit of
the play, with its witty lyrics, its bright
lavish color and its enchanting ballets,
maintained the gay mood of the audience.
r> . .
Ram, almost monsoonal m its vigor,
couldn’t prevent enthusiasts from throng-
ing to the Independent for the opening
night of T. S. Eliot’s “Cocktail Party.”
There hasn’t been such a packed house
for many a day, and the coffee ran out at
the interval. General opinion seemed to
be that the production was workmanlike,
which perhaps isn’t the highest praise,
However, the players nearly all possessed
the cardinal virtue of audibility, lor which
ey are to be thanked. One couldn t
elp noticing the faults of dressing among
the women on the stage, especially in the
first act. Gillian Bunning s fur had some
glamor, hut her dress was crushed. Celia,
payed by Verity Manna, didnt come to
i e until the second act. Perhaps it was
just as well she became a missionary for.
to judge by her clothes, she didn t have
much future as a woman of fashion.
This is a picture of Mrs. Ronald Parr,
a committee member of the Naughty
’Nineties, which, together with the Black
and White Ball committee, is sharing
proceeds of a fashion-show being held
at the A.C.I. ballroom on August 15
from 7 p.m. until 11 p.m. There is to
be dinner, dancing and a display of spring
fashions in cabaret style. The name of
the show is “Encore a Paris.” Henriette
Lamotte and Caroline Chambrelent are
combining in presenting the fashion
angle. Ihe Naughty Nineties committee
is represented by Mrs. W. J. Smith, Mrs.
M. Samuels, Mrs. J. Cassidy and Mrs. P.
Burke, the Black and White Ball by Mrs.
G. Blaxland, Mrs. E, Watt; Mrs. H.
Livingston, Mrs. N. Hill and Mrs. Ewart
Brisbin.
The ’flu, which has decimated the ranks
of several committee meetings this week,
prevented Mr. Justice Herron from
attending the Red Cross annual meeting
of the English-speaking Union. Mrs.
W. R. Dovey, who presided, showed
great devotion to duty by being present,
as her cold was so bad she could hardly
speak. When she whispered “Would all
in favor please say ‘Aye’?” it was
amusing to hear the members reply in
the same whisper, “Aye.” Mrs. Dovey
has been president of this branch of the
Red Cross since it began 12 years ago,
and during that time it has collected
£6507 for the good work, although its
membership is only 36. The guest-speaker
at the meeting was Mrs. T. J. Clyne, who
said that while we knew that Red Cross
needed us, still more did we need Red
Cross if we acknowledge that there is
such a thing as the brotherhood of man,
for the Red Cross could be our deputy
and our power for doing good throughout
the world.
The floor-show is always a special
feature of the International Ball, of which
the 1952 version takes place tomorrow
night. Members of the Greek community
will present “Corfu Folk Dance,” the
Yugoslavians a dance called “Paracinea
Kolo,”' with flute solo, and the Nether-
lands three dances by Dutch Trouba-
dors. The Kousnetzova Ballet Company
will present five dances, and in addi-
tion Madame Raissa Kousnetzova,
with Valeri Shaievsky and Edouard
Sebichevsky, will perform a Polish folk
dance. The decorations for the ball are
in the hands of Madame Regala and Mrs.
Alan Williams.
There were four hostesses for the
shower-tea which was given to Elaine
Davis, of Coogee, at Cahill’s restaurant
during the week; her aunts, Mrs. H.
Davis and Mrs. A. Davis, her sister
Yvonne and Mrs. H. Biner, who is to
be matron-of-honor at her wedding to-
morrow week. Elaine, who is the eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Davis,
is to marry Max Tanner, youngest son
of the R. G. Tanners of Bondi.
Two stories about after-dinner speakers
heard during the week: From Mrs. T. J.
Clyne came the one about the long-
winded chairman who apologised to the
guest-speaker for trespassing on his time.
“Not at all,” said the speaker wearily.
“You haven’t trespassed on time. You’ve
trespassed on eternity.” The other story
came from Madame Regala. When
speaking to the Garden Club she defined
the perfect speech as being like a woman’s
dress: “Long enough to cover the prin-
cipal parts but short enough to be
interesting.”
The exhibition of the Society of Arts
and Crafts reaches a high standard this
year, both in the quality of the exhibits
and in the display. At the opening cere-
mony Mr. R. J. F. Boyer said that
craftsmanship was one of the most
satisfying of all human experiences. We
were, he said, by way of becoming slaves
of the production-line—a nation of shop-
pers —but that whatever advances may
be made in production there was
nothing to take the place of individual
effort. The Soderberg prize for the best
exhibit went this year to Jessica Booth
for a beautiful set of hand-woven place-
mats, with special mentions for Helen
Pritchard’s work-basket, which stands
knee-high and has two trays, and for
Marion Darsow’s illuminated panel,
composed and hand-written on parch-
ment. The exhibition, which has also
some very interesting loan exhibits, will
be open until 9 p.m. on Friday next.
At the annual meeting of the Victoria
League it was announced that the new
dubrooms would be ready in about a
month’s time. These rooms, which have
been found after years of searching, are
in the basement of Kembla Building. It
was carried at the meeting that the
membership fee of 12s. per year be raised
to £2 2s. on account of this added
amenity. The members seemed to con-
sider this fee very moderate generally.
Mrs. H. H. McNall was elected deputy-
president for the ensuing year—she has
been occupying this position since taking
over from Mrs. Harold Nicholas last year.
Miss Nancy Shankland read the report
of the Young Contingent, which has now
been incorporated with the League.
The Torch Bearers for Legacy are
planning an All Nations’ Fair to be held
at the Trocadero on November 26, 27
and 28. At the first meeting held during
the week, with Mrs. Lionel McFadyen
presiding, it was announced that a hobbies
exhibition was being organised through-
out the metropolitan schools. The pre-
liminary judging would be done in the
suburbs and the prizewinners judged in
the city. On the committee of the fair
are Mrs. J. P. J. McCauley, Mrs. Ernest
Watt, Lady Rich, Mrs. W. J. Smith, Mrs.
Murrell, Mrs, E. Esdaile, Dr. Baja and
Mr. J. Smyser.


"Still keeps going
when the rest
have stopped"
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX4.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
From all accounts General Sir Gerald
Templer has been stirring up his own
command as well as the terrorists in
Malaya ; the appointment of Air Vice-
Marshal F. W. Scherger as boss airman
there can be expected to be comple-
mentary to the general’s tactics. Noted
as a disciplinarian, Scherger (“Scherg”
to all hands) is a Duntroon man who
joined the R.A.A.F. from a lieutenancy
on the staff-corps. He gained A.F.C. for
a fine record as a test-pilot, spending over
2000 flying-hours on that job, part of
them in testing the first Wirraways. In
charge at Darwin when the Japs first
unloaded on that sunny morning in
February, 1942, he later commanded the
10th ops. group in New Guinea.
Appointed Task Force Air Commander
for the Aitape landing, he had his head-
quarters set up four hours after the troops
went in and planes operating from the
airstrip 48 hours later. For that, D.S.O.
Despite his gift for organisation, Scherger
is essentially a pilot and a fighter. He’s
had 27 years in air-force blue,
“Macnell”: Landed in Sydney from
England on holiday, Vice-Admiral Sir
Richard Lane-Poole, back on familiar
ground—or water. Before the Jervis Bay
Naval College was scuttled, he was
captain-in-charge there and was respon-
sible for transforming much of the
adjacent scrub into the present parkland.
He had a catholic naval experience. In
command of th 6 Australian Navy be-
tween 1936-38, in the recent shindy he
surfaced from retirement to hold down
the jobs of commodore of Atlantic
convoys and Director of Demagnetisa-
tion, which took in the degaussing of all
Allied ships as protection against magnetic
mines. Brother of C. E. Lane-Poole, who
was Commonwealth Inspector-General of
Forests between 1927 and 1945, the
admiral is one of the two commanders of
H.M.S. Hood—when she was alive the
world’s largest warship—to serve in the
R.A.N.
Succeeding Essington Lewis as tsar of
the B.H.P. empire, Colin York Syme, a
49-year-old Westralian solicitor. Edu-
cated at Scotch College, Claremont, and
the Perth and Melbourne Universities, he
hung out his shingle as partner of a legal
firm in 1923. Today he is a director of
close on a dozen concerns, ranging from
Goldsbrough Mort to Union Theatres.
Fishing’s his folly.
“H.S.N.” farewells a friend:
Though the life of Hugh Cairns ended at 56,
it was, in a sense, complete. He had made his
discoveries and had passed on his knowledge
and skill to the elite of his profession. It is
impossible to measure his career by a record of
brilliant operations. He was a pioneer of some
branches of brain-surgery and a master of them
all. And, though an inspiring teacher, he will be
remembered as a personality as well as for his
professional eminence. Coming to Oxford from
Adelaide as a Rhodes Scholar, he rowed m the
Oxford eight, married the daughter of the Master
of Balliol, and made a name for himself as a
student of outstanding promise. In America
he worked under and with Harvey Cushing;
when that stage was complete he began life
in London, practised for some years in Harley-
street and at the London Hospital in White-
chapel, the refuge of expatriates from Germany
and Poland. It was there that his fame grew
as a surgeon, as a teacher, as a generous friend
and as a distinguished servant of the sick. His
thoroughness was amazing. He would seek out
every detail of the life of a patient from infancy
to middle age. One Australian radiographer
will recall being scruffed out of the Oxford
Museum on a day of sleet and wind to be
walked round the parks and cross-examined
because he had once treated a patient upon
whom Cairns was about to operate in London.
He would say that this thoroughness in indi-
vidual preparation was no less important than
professional training. It would see him through
an operation that might last a whole day and
would test the stamina of the anaesthetist and
the surgeon as well as of the patient. His
kindness, particularly to Australians, was
unbounded. When he came into a surgery or
a theatre he would bring with him hope and
confidence, though he was about to undertake
an operation which at the time no other sur-
geon would attempt. If a patient were a
stranger to London he would take pains to
find him accommodation and to protect him
against the extortions of a London nursing-
home. Lord Nuffield found, in Cairns, the ideal
head of his Foundation in the University of
Oxford. Cairns accepted the post at a salary
less than half the income of his practice.
Adelaide may be proud of her medical sons.
When Lawrence of Arabia lay unconscious after
being thrown from his motor-bicycle the best
brain surgeon and the best chest man in England
were sought. The brain surgeon was Hugh
Cairns; the chest man was Hope Gosse, who
had come from St. Peter’s, Adelaide, through
Cambridge to St. Mary’s, London.
With E, J. Holt to help A. W. Coles in
organising the 1956 Olympic Games in
Melbourne, prospects look brighter. In
Helsinki at the moment. Holt is secretary
of the Olympic Federation, but will give
up that job at the invitation of the Aus-
tralian committee. A retired bank-
manager, he was director of organisation
for the 1948 Games in London,
John Stratigos takes over the manager-
ship of Ford in N.S.W. from A. F.
France, now on six months’ sick-leave.
The new man knows most of the wrinkles
—he having qualified as an automotive-
and mechanical-engineer before shifting
to the sales side. Truck and fleet sales-
manager when War II broke out, Stratigos
took his mechanical know-how into the
A.1.F., and commanded Army workshops
in New Guinea —he had no complaint
about lack of clients. Demobbed, he held
down managerial posts in Queensland and
Victoria before his latest appointment.
Dr. William Neil McKie, M.V.0.,
M.A., Hon. D.Mus., F.R.C.0., Hon.
R.A.M., A.R.C.M., organist and Master
of the Choristers at Westminster Abbey,
will make the abbey-organ peal at the
Coronation. He is the tall, dark, diffident
Australian who, as city organist in Mel-
bourne, started free lunch-time concerts,
insisted on handing out Bach, Beethoven,
Brahms and suchlike to tired business-
men and flappers, and when the Bumbles
protested that he should play popular
music acidly asked “What’s ‘popular’?”
His programmes were popular enough to
require two sessions daily. At the Coro-
nation he will direct a choir of 400, a
posse of State trumpeters and an orchestra
of 55 pieces—his previous largest was the
choir of 70 he conducted at the Queen’s
wedding. He served four years with
the R.A.F. in the late war. The Bishop-
Coadjutor of Melbourne and Bishop of
Geelong is a brother.
This month Brisbane is staging its
Royal National Agricultural and Indus-
trial Association Exhibition —known to
thousands, some of whom will travel as
much as a thousand miles to see it, as
the Show. Exhibited here by Lambart,
SHOWMAN.
F. J. Kennedy joined the R.N.A. as a
junior clerk in 1928 ; today, as the associa-
tion’s secretary, he has a job which makes
the Man in Grey a hermit by comparison.
Bora in Toowoomba on the rich Darling
Downs, he spent his early years on an
orchard at Thulimbah, in the Granite
Belt. Old Digger.
Reginald Roderick St. Clair Chamber-
lain, caught in court by Coventry,
has been S. Australia’s Crown Prose-
cutor for over 20 years, having taken
over from Eric Millhouse. Those who
have watched him in that time claim that
no court proceedings have succeeded m
upsetting his customary calm, and he has
never been known to show discourtesy to
SOLICITOR.
a witness. Country-bred, a product of
Adelaide University, he was called to
the Adelaide Bar in 1922. The other
day he was appointed S. Australia’s Crown
Solicitor, relieving A. J. Hannan, retired
to private practice.
Announced from Canberra that
membership of the National Airlines
Commission has been given to Warren
D’Arcy McDonald—he’s something of an
institution in Canberra and parts adjacent.
Born at Penguin (Tas.), and schooled at
Launceston Grammar, by profession he’s
an engineer, with the reputation of being
willing to have a shot at any job. Among
these are major engineering works in the
A.C.T., N.S.W. and Victoria, including a
sizeable stretch of the Federal Capital
Highway. His McDonald Construction
Co. (whose sign may be seen on scaffold-
ing around Sydney buildings any day)
usually get its jobs done in record time ;
another record its chief established was in
becoming a brigadier. A sapper on en-
listing in September, 1939, he came back
from the Middle East in 1942 C.R.E. of
the 6th Division ; served in the Owen
Stanley, Buna and Gona campaigns, made
a success of Kapooka Training Camp,
then became chief-engineer to the 2nd
Australian Corps fighting on Bougainville
and in the Solomons. This has scarcely
been bettered in A.I.F. history. In his
younger days well-known as an Australian
Rules footballer, he has captained Can-
berra teams in both cricket and football
and for years has been president of the
Canberra Golf Club. Fifty.
Off on a world-tour to study agricul-
ture trends in the U.S. and Britain, 25-
year-old Gerald Rose was selected for
the jaunt by the Agricultural Attache of
the U.S. Embassy in Australia. A
member of the Cookernut district
council of the Westralian Junior Farmers
Movement, Rose will take in cattlebreed-
ing in the U.K. with his agricultural
interests, chief of which is potato-pro-
duction. He aims to try to raise the
average potato crop in Westralia from
six to eight tons an acre. This is far
from a chimerical ambition of the young
farmer’s—with his brother, he cultivates
64 acres, from which is harvested two
potato-crops a year. Last year s yield
was 10 tons an acre.
A sine qua non at Melbourne law-
courts when New Australians of almost
any nationality are under cross-examina-
tion is a property salesman in the office
of a Brunswick estate-agent. Janis
Breneris, he’s a Latvian who speaks
fluently a dozen languages. Earlier a
medical student in Riga, he later worked
at Lubeck, in Germany, as an employment
officer. He learnt a few more languages
while manager of a vaudeville theatre.
After coming to Australia he had a
chance to display his talents when a brawl
broke out in a migrant camp and the
police were at their wits’ end to know
who was right and who was wrong in
the babble of foreign lingoes. The police
engage him on an average twice a week
on police and Supreme Court cases.
For the past 15 years G. W, Martin
has been Lloyds’ shipping- and engineer-
surveyor in Dunedin (N.Z.). In War II
engineer-overseer for the New Zealand
Navy, and representative of the British
Ministry of Transport, he crosses to
Townsville, executive-engineer of the
North Queensland Regional Electricity
Board.
Stan McCabe on a tour-mate:
Australian Test men of the past 20 years or
so will miss the short, genial and always helpful
presence of Dr. Roland James Pope—and the
case of top-quality fruit he invariably had placed
in their dressing-room in the pavilion. Known
universally as “Doc,” he travelled to England
many times with Test teams as a sort of
unofficial medico and general adviser—he
travelled with me overseas at least five times—
accompanied always by a tonnage of luggage
which held just about everything a cricketer
could require, from sutures for a split thumb to
buttons for his trousers; and everything in his
trunks was neatly indexed. A separate case
held his books and notes, to which he added
on each tour. Though the Doc was generous
to a fault in his helpfulness he was a stickler
for doing the right thing in the right way. He
would reprimand a servant for an error in
serving—and leave five-bob under his plate.
We soon learned that we were expected to
drink his brandy (always the best) in the right
glass and with the right hand-warming round
its bowl. Otherwise a look of shocked horror
would appear on his face. Most of his
cricketing books and works on ornithology have
been given to the Newcastle Civic Library. They
should be cherished as the gift of a fine Aus-
tralian and a splendid sportsman. Doc himself
was a batsman of note in his day.
Melbourne University’s first chaplain
will be a former graduate, the Rev,
Donald Macrae, who as an army-
officer had five years with the A.I.F. in
the Western Desert and New Guinea. He
comes into the university under the
auspices of the Victorian Committee of
the World Council of Churches. He had
been working in Edinburgh for the
Church of Scotland.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 77, H. E. Harrington, who had
worked in the Crown Law Office, Brisbane, with
T. W. McCawley, afterwards Chief Justice.
Moving to Sydney, he built up a practice at the
Bar, and he helped edit a standard book on
trustee law in N.S.W. One son, a medical
graduate, was killed when sloop Yarra took;
on four Jap cruisers south of Java. Another
son, Wilfrid Harrington, had command of Yarra
before she was sunk, served later in destroyers,
and after the war had command of the lOtn
Destroyer Flotilla. He is now captain.
In Melbourne, Miss Agnes Winifred Allan,
well-known in the musical world through her
association with her brother, the late George
Allan, then managing-director of the musical
firm of Allan’s. Another brother is the present
head.
At the War Veterans’ Home at Cheltenham,
Melbourne, David Stewart Meldrum, a one-
time warrant-officer of the Black Watch and the
most highly decorated non-com member ot
the British Ex-Service Legion in Australia, lie
held the M.M.-and-Bar, the M.S.M., Sudan,
China, Boer War and Great War decorations,
the French M.M. and Croix de Guerre.
In Sydney, at 62, Cedric Cohen, noted Sydney
eye-surgeon, one-time senior surgeon at tne
Royal Westminster Ophthalmic Hospital m
London, and, for over 20 years, honorary eye-
specialist at Sydney Hospital. Son of a J u dg®>
he served in the R.A.M.C. in War I. Las
year he returned from a tour of the main
centres of eye-surgery in America and on tne
Continent, one of the main impressions or
which was a heightened respect for eye-surgery
in his own country.
In Melbourne, at 50, James Hughes, known
to radio-listeners as “Jock McLachlan. A
brother of Robert Hughes, the composer whose
first symphony was recently performed in Mel-
bourne, James was a former amateur boxing-
champion of Scotland.
At Townsville, at 69, Hector Maclean
Macdonald, early Bulletin contributor ana
one-time owner-editor of Mt. Isa’s newspaper.
Too young to legally enlist when Kruger made
his bid, Macdonald crossed into Queenslana
from the Clarence River, advanced his age,
joined the Queensland Bushmens Rifles ana
served throughout the Boer War. On retireme
he built his picturesque Henry Lawson Loage
on Magnetic Island; its she!! collection and
rock-paintings, executed by Macdonald, are
familiar to the island’s tourists.


HTS
LYS
ROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
every Roll of Netting,
LOOK for Our MARKER in
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ss**lfe
- ■ ■ ■■■•■"'
fi' *•* '* *v J&*
fe" >* ;
M i
>!'*'»
<’>■ ■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty.,Ltd.
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "IYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Zebu Blood.
“Oxo”: C. M. Wright,
Waverley station, St. Lawrence
(Q.), believes that in 30 or 40
years’ time nobody in Central
Queensland will be breeding
commercial cattle without zebu
blood. A loss of 5000 cattle in
the 1926 drought set him think-
ing about them, and in 1933 he
became one of a syndicate of
four which imported zebus from
the U.S.A.
In the 1951 drought Waverley
lost 300 cattle. A neighbor
running Herefords lost 3000 out
of a herd of 5000. Wright says
he’s a zebu man from now on.
Despite widespread prejudice
against zebus they are spreading
and would spread even more
quickly here if more bulls were
available. Waverley has 7000
cattle carrying various percent-
ages of zebu blood. Fresh blood
was introduced from the U.S.A.
in 1949. From a beef-quality
point of view, zebu has been im-
proved by about 75 per cent,
in a matter of 20 years. Before
that nobody bred the zebu much
for beef.
Seeing that the zebu was bred
in India for hot conditions,
Wright does not think it would
readily adapt itself to a cold
climate, so he does not expect
the breed to drift far below the
“Brisbane Line.”
Silo Made of Mud.
“Ben C.”: N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Gazette tells how R. J.
Waterford, a Coonamble farmer,
built a pise silo of about 2800-
bushel capacity.
Two men built the silo in
three weeks. Cost of labor and
materials was estimated at £lOO,
a large proportion being spent
on imported flat-iron. On an-
other estimate it cost B|d. per
bushel capacity.
Measurements are: Internal
diameter, 18ft.; height to top
of walls, 10ft. An excavation
in the base is 14ft. diameter by
3ft. deep.
A circular framework of 24
poles (4in. tops) was erected with
the poles spaced 2ft. apart;
these were reinforced on the in-
side and outside by 42in. x
netting, the reinforcement also
being a mould for the pise.
To prevent the netting from
bulging out between the posts,
wire hooks (12 per panel) held
the two netting walls together.
The soil used was a fight-red
loam with a low clay content,
which set hard when dry; it
was obtained from the hole dug
for the bottom of the silo. The
soil was mixed with water to a
Consistency at which it would
keep its shape.
Nothing was added to the
mud that was packed in the
space between the two layers of
netting, one width of netting
being filled at a time.
The inside and outside walls
were plastered smooth and later
painted with a mixture of lime
and cement (four parts to one).
The floor was sealed with con-
crete.
A cone-shaped roof was built
of flat-iron on timber rafters
supported by a centre-piece.
A simple trapdoor was put
in the roof, and, to facilitate
emptying, a gravity outlet made
from an old header grain-box
was fitted into the wall to allow
the insertion of an auger or
elevator to remove grain.
It is filled from a staging up
to which trucks can back.
Though built to store oats,
Waterford believes it is suffi-
ciently strong to hold wheat.
New Queensland Wheat.
“Joe”: A new high-yielding,
rust-resistant wheat released this
year by Queensland Agriculture
Department is expected to be-
come one of the State’s most
popular varieties. Named Spica,
it is a quick maturer and of
good baking quality. It is in-
tended for main-season or late
sowing.
Tested against the best avail-
able varieties in its own maturity
class, Spica showed excellent
results. It was developed by
R, E. Soutter, a plantbreeder
now retired. The final cross was
made as far back as 1934.
Sydney Sheep Show.
“R. Ney”: There’s a move to
change the Sydney Sheep Show
from autumn to spring (i.e.,
from May to October) on the
grounds that the change would
mean:
The scope could be widened
to include fat lanfbs; interests
of breeders of British sheep
would be better served ; stock
would be in better condition;
interests of buyers would be
better served; it would closely
follow the opening of the wool-
selling season when more lively
public interest might be ex-
pected ; there would be less inter-
ference with shearing arrange-
ments.
If it comes off it won’t be till
1954. The decision will be made
next May.
Hybrid Sweet-corn.
“Anon”: A world record
yield is claimed for a seed crop
of Golden Cross Bantam hybrid
sweet-corn, harvested by Ten
Barnes at Mudgee (N.S.W.). Be-
cause of its uniform maturity,
canners are able to harvest the
hybrid in one operation. It is
normally ready to eat 90 days
after planting. The highest
quality is reached 20 days after
the silks emerge and the grain
has reached the golden stage.
Quality is rapidly lost if the corn
is stored for more than eight
hours prior to eating or canning,
except in deep-freeze.
A single-cross hybrid is used.
Inbreds are normally very low-
yielding, and a good average crop
is 25 bushels an acre. Barnes's
crop yielded 65 bushels of
graded female seed an acre.
This crop was grown under
spray-irrigation. Transpiration
in the heat-wave conditions was
at a greater rate than the plant
could absorb moisture from the
soil, and many of the top leaves
withered.
Following a lucerne crop, the
soil was well supplied with
nitrogen and the fertility-level
was high. However, an area
side-dressed with sulphate of
ammonia showed response, and
some local growers are planning
to side-dress their maize crops
during the coming season.
Maize requires abundant
nitrogen for maximum yield.
Experience suggests that all
maize crops, even on very fertile
soil, would show response to
nitrogen in the form of sulphate
of ammonia, put on at between
401 b. to 801 b. to the acre in two
dressings while the crop is grow-
ing. The first dressing should be
when the crop is 12in. to 15in.
high, and the second at the last
cultivation before tasselling.
A. W. Bourne, manager of
an Armidale (N.S.W.) seed
company specialising in hybrid
maize, gives these reasons
for the outstanding results
obtained: High natural
fertility of alluvial soils; deep
and thorough initial cultivation,
followed by clean inter-row
working ; optimum use of irriga-
tion ; maximum stand with very
uniform planting (12,000 to
15,000 plants per acre); and
good plant-breeding' methods
which have maintained a high-
yielding, inbred line.
Hybrid Maize.
“Y. Dent”: If competitions
mean anything hybrid maize is
out on its own. Sydney R.A.S.
has just held two contests, and
here’s what Agriculture Depart-
ment expert W. D. Kerle had
to say:
Early- and late-maturing
hybrids stood out on the N.S.W.
South Coast. R. J. Lavis, Rew-
lee, Bodalla, won by a point
from H. E. Harris, Lower
Towamba, near Eden. Lavis's
“And as for our Emma, I'm cutting 'er off with a tray-bit."
c gave 135 bushels an acre
and Hams ’ s 121 B ° th grew
Em bi em hybrid.
The way hybrid maize stood
up t 0 dry conditions, particularly
temperatures following
bushfires in j anua ry, was “re-
markabie-”
a section of the Central North
C t devastated two years ago
by flo ’ odj then parched y m a
nine
months’ drought, produced an
« amaz i ng » crop Q f 145 bushels
(State average is 30
bushds) x t is owned by H. Lan-
• *l^'rnntpst Standfast
‘ n , tbc ' 0 ? r . f f
bybrld ; tb f
bu .f d to , th ® hlgh ”
sod a " d ma t tei h which assisted
organic matter, wnicn assisrea
ZI
was well worked, and that a
bybnd vaiiety was sown.
A-ivom#* Cian Trv
« Wnn i«. You can haw that
' ha e ™
16/v/ . 52)> The method I have
used for over 40 years will deter-
■ and memancv one
hour after ser vice. But you
if , • j \ u
, be .. awlzard 01 a Wlteh
T ? a bit of sheep , wool on a
shor[ strjne and hol / it alonEside
*e animal. If you have the
touch the wool will swing hori-
zontally (pregnant with male), or
- n a c j rc | e (pregnant with
f cina ] e j or rema ( n stationary
(
p is so quick tha t
I have had a result in 30
minutes after service with cows.
and bave often bought mares
and CQWS on this test w
To mystify the onlookers,
when I could not get an oppor-
tunity to do it quietly, I have
the wool in a glove-finger tied
with the string, and then pass it
ground for them to feel.
I took a trip to Victoria,
N.S.W. and S. Aust. to demon-
strate the test but could not find
anyone with the wizard touch
to operate it.
Vegetable Seedlings.
“Farmer Bill”: When spring
weather is dry give vegetable
seedlings extra care. Sowing
them a little deeper helps their
roots to reach moist soil quicker
and gives the first tender shoots
some protection when they
sprout from the seed-case.
Cover the rows with sacks
immediately after sowing. This
reduces evaporation. Remove
the sack as soon as the seeds
germinate, otherwise the seed-
lings will be spindly.
Covering the seed-rows with
a thin mulch of fine lawn cut-
tings helps peas and beans but
is unsatisfactory for small seed.
A Frost Mill.
“Sucker”: To reduce the
ravages of frost among pine-
apple and other Queensland
crops, a giant fan with arms 21ft.
long, designed to draw down the
warm upper night air, is being
tested at Beerwah experiment
farm.
This frost-machine, worth
£lOOO, is on a 25ft. tower in the
centre of an Bi-acre plantation,
If they work, frost fans could
save fruit crops worth up to
£BOO an acre. When in opera-
tion the machine will scoop down
warm upper air up to 100 ft.
Thermistors have been placed
over the plantation to maintain
an overall check on temperatures,
and others are in balloons which
will test temperatures at 200 ft.
N.S.W. Potatoes.
“Hortus”: Marked changes
are occurring in potato varieties
grown in the various “spot”
districts. In New England, for
instance, Dakota Red, Early
Manhattan Satisfaction and
Factor topped the poll formerly.
Department varieties Adina and
Monak and those introduced
from U.S.A., Sebago and
Sequoia, seem to be challenging
the old favorites.
Then, in Crookwell, the last
two mentioned plus Saranac are
replacing Factor, once so
popular.
E. I. Menzies, of Ebor,
harvested a record crop l this
year of 14 tons per acre. One
tuber weighed 31b. 9oz. It’s his
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
August should see good rains early, extending well
inland, but not very much into the far west or along the
Darling. On the present cycle these rains may cause floods
in parts of Victoria and Tasmania. Good rains are likely
on the wheatlands of eastern Australia.
The recent heavy rains in Sydney were abnormal. They
are not shown on the recent known cycles, except that
in 1810 (main Bruckner cycle) it is recorded simply as
floods in July. In the double Bruckner repeat these rains
were delayed till October, and such transfers often occur.
There are cycles of which we have no record, hence unex-
pected weather occurs from time to time, and will be
unexpected until the cycles are all covered by the new
records. Next year, for example, we begin to pick up
traces of the long Cycle of Neptune (165 years) and may
have a repetition of 1788 weather in 1953.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
AMD PERTH
Have we visitors
from Space?
Nine “saucer-like” things
flying like geese in a diagonal
chainlike line.” This first report
of the “flying saucers” came
from an American air pilot in
1947. Dr. Walther Riedel, once
director of the famous German
rocket centre in Peenemunde
and now engaged on secret
work for the United States, is
convinced that the “saucers”
have an out-of-world basis. Dr.
Maurice Biot, leading aerody-
namicist, is of the same
opinion. What do you think?
August Reader’s Digest brings
a complete round-up on the
“flying saucer” mystery. In
this same issue—29 stimulating
articles. Get your August
Reader’s Digest today. One
shilling and sixpence at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
HE HAS A*
RUPTURE
í
, . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
i BABRERE
J No Pads—-
I No Springs
The NEO-BARRBRE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2z), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
t
s mm
\
/fr
V*
/'//'
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
î
PHE.BX.BO
HEDGE CUTTERS
Rotary Electric (33, 110 or 330
volts). Efficient, Quick, Saver.
Distributed by
HEDGE CUTTERS
PTY. ETD.
116 QUEEN ST., MEEBOURNE.
Tel. Nos.: MU 1807 & 3371.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
ï
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
*
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ĩ
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes Jit possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
-DISTRIBUTORS:’
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray bt., Pertn.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
R&fflGs place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
%
blacksmith’s Epic Flight
PARIS 1679
EWS has just reached us that the Sieur
Besnier, a smith of Sable, has crossed the river
Rhone from a high place on a flying machine of his own
invention. It consists of two poles, with, at each end, a
folding framework covered with taffeta. He held the poles
on his shoulders and attached their rear ends by cords to his
feet. The wings were arranged to fold on the upward stroke.
By alternate strokes of the left and right wings Besnier
maintained his flight. After he had landed Besnier said, I
had no trouble at all. There was only three eighths cloud at
1,000 metres, and visibility was 20 kilometres. I believe that
flying has come to stay. This is all right for 1679. But
wait till 1952, when men will fly across the world, efficiently
fuelled, of course, by the BP Aviation Service.
AVIATION
ī
SERVICE
THE
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERJES. LTD., All States.
An associate of Anglo-Itanian Oil Company, Limited, London.
opinion that decontrol of potato
prices would incite growers to
plant more. However, owing to
seed shortage, no spectacular
increase in production may be
expected for at least 12 months.
Potato Blight.
“Phytop”: General recom-
mendation for the control of
Irish or late blight of potatoes
is spraying with Bordeaux mix-
ture or dusting with copper com-
pounds. Although the disease
can ruin a crop in a wet season
few growers follow the recom-
mendation, largely because they
are disinclined to adopt preven-
tive measures for a disease which
is uncertain in its incidence.
Infestation comes almost
overnight, and preventive
measures are then too late to stop
it. The worst losses are suffered
by those who fancy they can
keep the tubers from becoming
infested by digging the crop
immediately. In fact, the surest
way to bring about infestation
is to dig while the tops are still
green and carrying spores of the
fungus. Conditions are then
ready-made for the disease to
travel fast through the potatoes
in the bag.
On the other hand, tuber-in-
festation is likely to be caused
eventually by the unimpeded
spore population of the lops
being washed down to the tubers
if they are left too long in the
ground.
Hawkesbury River growers
have tackled this problem with
limited success by mowing or
cutting the diseased tops and
carting them off.
Recognised treatment in some
countries now is to use a spray
to kill the tops quickly, thus pre-
venting wholesale multiplication
of the spores of the fungus, and
giving the tubers a good chance
to remain free from infestation.
Hints for the Farm.
“E.H.M.”: A good dual-
purpose spray to protect young
beans against red-spider and
bean-fly is E 605. And it is the
only successful hare-repellent I
know. Mix l-6th oz. to 4gal.
of water and spray every three
or four days until flowering-
time.
“Big Billy”: To avoid bloat
in cattle don’t put them on lush
pastures when hungry; don’t
graze them on growing pasture
in cold weather ; give them chaff
or meadow-hay before allowing
them on to lush pastures.
“G.A.A.”: Stickfast - flea in
poultry may be dealt with by
disinfecting premises and treat-
ment of birds themselves.
Cheap dressings such as
neatsfoot- or castor-oil, sulphur-
vaseline, kerosene-lard and red-
oil emulsions are effective for
the birds. More lasting immunity
comes from D.D.T. one per cent,
solution. To keep premises
thoroughly clean apply D.D.T.
powder to the ground as well as
coating all buildings and fences
with tar-oil, phenolic sheep-
dip, kero, emulsion or D.D.T.
emulsion.
“Myrr”: The best aphis-
ovicidal sprays (applied in July)
are D.N.C. or tar-distillate,
Iqt. in lOgal. of water. For eggs
missed in this spraying and which
have reached the insect stage
use (at bud-burst or early-pink
stage) a D.D.T. oil spray, Iqt.,
or parathion, |oz., in lOgal. of
water. Either of these sprays
can be used with Bordeaux for
fungus-control on the same trees.
“Sundowner”: While one of
the most important means of
maintaining soil-fertility is the
free use of compost, to make
certain a balance is retained be-
tween what is grown and what
is removed see that adequate
fertilisers are used. To get the
best out of compost it must be
well matured and dug in.
Applied as a mulch, as it often
is, it will have only a slow
effect on returning essential
nutrients to the soil. To attain
and keep the required balance in
garden soils see that organic
matter is regularly incorporated
and that every crop has its ferti-
liser.
“Big Billy”: Uniform germi-
nation of Wimmera rye and
sub.-clover for winter feed will
be ensured by light cultivation
by tandem disk or pasture har-
rows, preferably before irriga-
tion. If pasture has already
been sown top-dress immediately
and keep all stock off for some
weeks.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £12,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWB 13 1 (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
SAVE up to (300
a year with the new HANOMAG
V
ff
o^
/qi
VL^°
V
o\^
1/'
v%
\*&
/"
qa
foe
\\oo
6 /\oi
qa
C© 4 '
Won
a /Aod
Won
utnp
Con 4
V\o^
W»6'
VAon
\J^
*0
oqQ
v^* 0
tf»2
m
H
H
ĭ
DIESEL
TRACTOR
m
■¥ Hanomag's big bene-
fits mean pounds in
your pocket. Study the
chart above, TAKEN
FROM ACTUAL OFFI-
CIAL FIELD TESTS—it
clearly shows the
superiority of the
Hanomag R 45 Diesel
tractor,
SEE! Just how far ahead _
Hanomag is in economical operation!
Ask your localagent tor a demonstration.
HANOMAG IMS’s “ahead-of-the-fleld”
features include—extra manoeuvreability—
independent rear wheel brakes reduce turning
radius to lift. 101 n.; 13” ground clearance;
instant starting from electric starter and
preheating device; wide speed range—five
forward speeds ranging from 2.17 to 10.75
m.p.h., easily pulls a 22-ton trailer load in
sth gear; hand operated differential lock
prevents bogging, AND IT HAS A DRAWBAR
PULL OF 6733 LBS. IN Ist GEAR.
DEMCO Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd.
243-47 Cleveland St., REDFERN, N.S.W. 'Phone MX4I2T.
Distributors QUEENSLAND: Demco
Machinery Co. (Q’land) Ltd., C/o Box 93b,
G.P.0., Brisbane. VICTORIA: Demco
Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 355 William St.,
Melbourne. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Shipp
Bros., Hilton Rd., Adelaide. WEST AUS-
TRALIA: E. E, (Joe) Hancock, 59 Lord St.,
Perth.
To DEMCO MACHINERY CO. PTY. LTD.
243-47 Cleveland St., REDFERN.
Please forward, without obligation, full details of
the Hanomag i? 45 Tractor.
NAME /
ADDRESS
2345
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Shortly after they were married
her husband was arrested on a charge
of breaking, entertain and stealing.”
—Sydney “Sim.”
That was no way to treat his
bride.
4* 4* 4* ■
“Sweden is noted for the few
divorces that occur there.”
— Women’s magazine.
Yes—its safety-matches.
“Of COURSE I love you, Ethel—but you don't hold the
back-wheel down!”
“Found, black he-cat during
drought, piece of tail, much damaged
—now recovered —any claimants?”
—Southport ( Q .) paper.
Try the cat.
•i* *F .
“Announcement of a new issue tor
Leo During found the stares Id. better
at 6s.” — Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
Penny a look?
“Things have never been the same
in Hollywood since film-stars learned
to read and write.”
—Film pioneer Mack Sennett.
However, many of them still
make their mark.
»I-
-“ Cricketers in Britain will soon be
batting on rubber wickets, the British
Rubber Producers’ Research Associa-
tion announces.”
Matches will now last for days
at a stretch.
“Have you let your figure go a bit
in the winter?” — Women’s paper.
If so, you have a fat hope of
recovery.
4*
“A debate in the House of Lords
is like addressing tombstones by
torchlight.”— Lord Stansgate.
A grave atmosphere.
Spare Our Days!
“Sir Charles Darwin, in The Next
Million Years, says, in effect, that
never again will mankind enjoy the
measure of prosperity and well-being
that had occurred in the past 100
years. Perhaps never again will man
enjoy such emancipation from
struggle, hunger and poverty.”
—“5. M. Herald” book review.
The Golden Age has come —and
gone.
Henceforth, it seems, we’ll look
upon
A future so bereft, forlorn,
We’ll doubtless wish we’d not
been born.
More evil wogs will Nature
breed:
We mightn't even get a feed!
We’ve no escape; condemned to
be
Together yoked in misery.
We certainly will get some curry.
Already I begin to worry.
For this will happen, it appears.
Some time within a million
years !
P. O. M. C.
“Hold the Line.”
Yes, Shirl, it’s a dusty-
pink moire taffeta. I got it at
Jenderson’s for seventeen and
eleven a yard reduced from —ooh,
I forget how much, but it was a
real bargain anyway. I’m having
it made up with pap sleeves and
a portrait neckline and a pencil-
slim skirt. Yes, it should look
nice, and that little cloche I got
at the Juan the other day goes
beautifully with it.,..
“What’s that? Fancy! I
didn’t think he was going that
strong with her. She doesn’t
waste any time, does she? He’s a
bit of a drip, don’t you think?
There’s just something about
him that I don’t like. I think it
must be the way he does his hair
—plasters it all over one side,
somehow. But then Marcia was
never fussy about the style of
her boy-friends, was she? I
suppose it’s because she’s not so
hot on style herself....
“You have! Well, I never!
When did you get it? What,
did you win the lottery or some-
thing? I don’t know how you
do it Oh! Joan got hers on
terms, too. They call them easy
terms, but I don’t know, they
keep you poor. Still, it’s about
the only way you can get things
these days, it seems. I don’t
know where all my money goes
to. Harry reckons I’m a bad
manager, but I don’t know, you
change a pound and it’s gone
“Haye you heard from
Barbara lately? H’m, she is
having a gay time. But that life
she leads is starting to tell on
her, don’t you think? Yes, she’s
showing her age right enough.
The last time I saw her she
didn’t have bags under the eyes,
she had suitcases. You can’t
burn the candle at both ends like
that for long without looking
the worse for wear. You know,
she loves her little bit of social-
climbing, and that’s a thing I
can’t stand. She always was a
bit of a snob, you know. And,
my heavens, she’s got nothing to
be uppish about either. When I
first knew her she had to wear
hand-me-downs from her sister
Millie —their father was only a
commercial or something. Now
by the way she gets around you’d
think she was a duchess. No,
I’ve got no time for that sort of
thing....
“I believe Elsie is going to
have a baby... .Yes, it’s about
time, isn’t it, they’ve been
married long enough to have had
half a dozen? I’d just about
given up hope. But wouldn’t it
be a pity if the poor little thing
grew up to be like Tom? Not
that I’ve got anything against
Tom, mind you. He’s quite a
nice chap, rather too good for
Else, I think, but I don’t suppose
he can help his looks. I often
wonder what Else saw in him.
Still, I suppose he must have
something. Well, it takes all
sorts to make a world, doesn’t
it, and anyway I suppose
someone had to marry him? But
I hope for her sake it isn’t a
girl. It’s not so important if a
boy’s ugly
“Yes, Shirl, we’re going to. the
mountains again this year. We
always seem to finish up there. I
wanted Harry to go up north this
time, but the car’s just about had
it and he doesn’t think it would
stand up to a long trip. We're
wanting new tyres, too, and you
know what they cost now. So
we’ve got to be content with the
mountains. I rather like up l
there, really. There’s always
something to do. Plenty of life,
and that’s what you want after
being in this dump all the year,
I’ve got a couple of new outfits
to stun ’em with at the guest-
house, though mostly you strike
a lot of old frumps
“No, Shirl, I haven’t seen
Deirdre for ages. Well, I did run
into her last month, I think it
was. I believe she and Len aren’t
hitting it too well. Mind you, I
think she’d be pretty hard to get
on with. I couldn’t stand hav-
ing to live with her for long,
myself. She’s house-proud, of
course, and everything must be
just so. It’s a shame when a
husband can’t just do what he
likes in his own place. I believe
she gives poor Len an awful
time. But he can fly off the
handle, mind you, when he wants
to. I couldn’t stand a bad-
tempered man, I’d leave him,
pretty quick... .Yes, I could
imagine they would fight like
cat and dog. Isn’t it awful, when
you come to think of it? It is
a pity, though, because I like
Deirdre
“I rang up the other night to
find out the name of those new
corsets you got and you were
out... .Oh, were you? What did
you see?... .Yes, / saw that, too.
I didn’t think much of it. There
wasn’t enough romance in it.
Too much of this outdoor stuff.
Anyway I think Randolph
Scott’s getting too old to make
love convincingly now. And
wasn’t that nature-study thing
silly ? I just couldn’t get
interested in it. 1... .Oh, just a
minute, Shirl, there’s someone
knocking on the phone-box
d00r....
“Well, of all the hide! There
are about four or five people
hanging around outside, and one
dill-looking fellow, the one that
knocked on the glass, starting
going crook and pointing to his
wrist-watch. I can’t get over it!
Anyone’d think he owned the
box. Anyway, I soon shut him
up. Said I was making an
important call. I’ll just let him
wait now till I’ve finished....
“Is young Wally over the
mumps yet? H’m. They do
keep you tied down, don’t they?
I don’t suppose you’ll be at the
tennis till next week, then. He
ought to be able to go back to
school by then Oh, by the
way, Shirl, could I have a loan
of that rucked satin evening-bag
of yours for tomorrow night?
It’s the annual dance of Harry’s
firm, you know. I’ll be wearing
that ice-blue organza —it’s the
only decent thing I have, and my
bag doesn’t go with it....
Thanks, Shirl, I’ll look after it.
“Well, Shirl,- I suppose I’ll
have to be getting along. I can
see Daph waiting at the corner
for me. I’ll see you when I come
round to pick up the bag. And
will I give this dill outside the
icy stare as I’m leaving!
Bye-bye.”
* * * *
“Oh, Daph, how are you?
Sorry I’m a bit late. I’ve been
talking to Shirley. My God, that
woman’s a menace on the phone.
It’s so hard to get away from
her, and she never lets you get
a word in edgeways!”
Bo.
Highly Strung.
“To make a success of life, it is
necessary to string the bow of ambi-
tion with the single gut of concentra-
tion.”—Commoner Harold Nicolson.
Must we who live today
Seek ever to impress
Our fellows by the way
That we achieve success?
And must we rack our brains
To clinch each business deal,
While deaf to sweet refrains
From distant bells that peal?
Ah ! What a narrow race
We’ll be if culture dies
And grasping takes its place
With wealth the hard-won
prize !
To live to such a plan
With dangers grave is fraught,
For oft the self-made man
Is better fed than taut.
D. H. E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Government Bond's
Treasurer Fadden is reported to have
said that it is unreasonable for bond-
holders to expect face-value for their
bonds should they need to realise under
present adverse market conditions. He
went on to quote the proportionate falls
in ordinary shares, but he skipped over
the fact that ordinary-shareholders are
drawn from a different group altogether
and expect to take losses on the chin.
For an accountant, a businessman and
Federal Treasurer that is a most un-
realistic attitude. Loan-organisers, bank-
managers, stockbrokers, solicitors and
trustees have recommended their clients
and inquirers to invest in Commonwealth
bonds for three main reasons: satis-
factory interest rate, sale of bonds at
about face-value at call if cash is needed,
and safety of capital
The simple fact is that future loans
will fail dismally unless a plan is evolved
whereby par, or nearly so, can be obtained
in the event of liquidation before due
date. As a bank-manager I would cite
transactions in bonds where heavy losses
have been suffered by members of the
community who invested mainly for
patriotic reasons. —C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
The Building Game
In the post-war housing shortage mal-
practices in the building-trade have been
almost legion, those most commonly
observed being the lack of supervision of
highly-paid and often inefficient trades-
men and laborers, and a devil-take-the-
cost attitude towards wages and the prices
paid for materials and the waste of them.
Under the usual contract it was all
recoverable, with a percentage.
Now, with prices pushed to fantastic
limits and with money and not only
building loans—getting tighter, the trade
is feeling the pinch, and there is talk of
“slackness” and “danger of collapse”—
“collapse” being the word commonly
applied by many interests to tile process
of being forced back to something like
normal trading standards. Sundry
members of the trade are waving white-
wash brushes, and a depute lion; is button-
holing N. S. Wales Premier Cahill for the
registration of builders.
The proposals include the establishment
of a “Builders’ Registration Board of
N. S. Wales” and legislation to confine
registration to those who pass a special
examination or hold degrees or certificates
from the University of Technology or
Technical Colleges, or who have com-
pleted not less than five years as a
qualified assistant to a builder, or have
traded as a builder for three years (most
of the sharks have been in the game that
long, anyway), or who can satisfy the
board they are learning the trade and pass
the examination within three years.
After that, of course, “no unregistered
person shall-trade as a builder- or shall
construct either for himself or for any-
one else any building for immediate sale.”
Mr. Cahill’s Government, loving boards
and controls as it does, migbt be per-
suaded to add yet another to its cumbrous
organisation ; but what pious piffle it all
is. Some system of registration might
have afforded slight protection to home-
seekers a few years ago when builders
were in such lush clover that they didn’t
worry about registration and the like.
This current belated show of self-
righteousness doesn’t conceal the fact that
builders themselves are now looking for
protection and trying to reduce competi-
tion by narrowing the field.
Their proposals delicately avoid refer-
ence to one of their most obvious targets
—the owner-builders whose numbers
have been enormously increased in recent
years because of the exorbitant cost of
homebuilding.— Oliver Filter (N.S.W.).
Dingoes and Wild Pigs
Central Queensland was settled back in
’62, and right from the time the first
packhorse was unsaddled they’ve been
fighting the dingo. Every week there are
reports of the increase of dingoes and
of some station being forced out of sheep
Commonwealth
Defence
PROTiCTv
KEEP
OUT
By 0«»«
-V> • t'V*
“Correct that slope, Hawkins."
into cattle. Even allowing for exaggera-
tion. it would seem that the dingo is win-
ning. '
Possibly, however, the dingo isn’t doing
all the damage blamed. In every pastoral
district in w.-Q. there are at least 100,000
wild pigs. One station alone paid for the
snouts of 3000 some years ago. Wild
pigs don’t live on air and grass-roots ; a
lambing ewe can often be seen with pigs
hanging around her, and a weak sheep
limping to water can be sure of the
watchful eyes of half a dozen porkers.
Day and night pigs are on the alert
for a' feed of mutton, and a wild pig,
unlike dingo, fox, blowfly or drought,
leaves no trace, not even a smell.
All that marks the death of a
sheep are some tracks on the ground, a
few wisps of wool blown about and
caught in the Mitchell-grass and a
shortage in the numbers in that paddock.
A pig has an enormous appetite, and
anyone who has ever mixed-it with them
knows how savage they are. It does seem
ridiculous that sheepowners don’t wage
war on the pigs. They are easy to shoot
and susceptible to the right poison. By
all means attack the dingoes ; but deal it
out to the pigs just as solidly.— Grunter
(Q.)
Margarine
Back in the years when people were
starving because of “overproduction”
and the late G.B.S. demanded to know
why Australia wanted to ram its butter
down Britain’s throat our Governments
passed legislation limiting the quality and
quantity of margarine that could be sold.
The object, of course, was to protect
dairymen, then in a desperate plight
because of the lack of demand at home
and abroad.
Now that dairymen are in clover all
restrictions on butter substitutes should
be repealed in the interest of consumers.
Butter-production wouldn’t suffer —the
demand for whole milk and milk pro-
ducts could absorb all our milk.
An overseas visitor lately claimed that
his firm was prepared to manufacture
margarine in Australia equal in appear-
ance, taste and flavor h> the choicest
butter, “approaching” it in food-value
and at half the price.
Why not? If an excellent butter-
substitute can be produced under ideal
factory conditions on a 40-hour-week
basis there is no sense in farmers and
their children rising at unearthly hours in
rain and frost and fog to yard and milk
cows. —Cow Catcher (Vic.).
Society
“Rann” (B. 2/7/’52) should know that
imaginary ailments and mental aberra-
tions are more common among the idle
rich than among the hard-working poor,
and that a giddy whirl of gaiety is more
nerve-destroying than toil, sweat and
tears. London under the blitz was more
sane and responsible than Sydney under
the war-time invasion of free-spending
U.S. soldiers.
Australia’s vaunted industrial war-
effort was made under ideal conditions.
The workers were coddled with amenities
and high wages. Jobs were plentiful and
secure, food was abundant, and physical
fear absent. Tasks were lightened with
music and night-life was hectic with danc-
ing, mirth and song. Social liberty
degenerated into licence, with a conse-
quent slackening of the restraints that are
necessary to bodily and mental health.
With peace came shorter hours of labor
and a period of thriftless squandermania.
National bankruptcy was averted only by
almost incredible prices for wheat and
wool. The sudden access of purely
fortuitous wealth made the whole com-
munity mad and started another spend-
ing spree in which consumption outran
production at a ruinous rate. Shiploads
of aliens were imported to make up for
the loss of man-hours devoted to sports
and pastimes, strikes and holidays.
Can any psychiatrist say that such “be-
haviorism” is sane or fail to diagnose
the cause of the “nervous breakdown”?
—Jock (S.A.).
Labor
“Hist’s” argument (B. 4/6/’52) that
our present irresponsible labor element
stems from ‘‘a residue of resent-
ment from the days when the
boss was dictator” isn’t convincing.
It is among the younger workers
that the- attitude is most pronounced, and
these have little or no personal experi-
ence of such a relationship between em-
ployer and employee.
Years of militant trade-union propa-
ganda has had more to do with it. The
philosophy of “get all you. can and give
nothing in return” does not encourage
responsibility among employees. False
economic doctrines play their part, too.
Once, even the illiterate did not believe
prosperity could be achieved without
hard work. Now many who ought to
know better seem to think it can.
Industrial unrest is by no means con-
fined to ungenerous employers. Many
who have made generous concessions to
their workers have been repaid with in-
gratitude, instead of loyalty. In some
industries well-organised Leftist minorities
prevent honest workers from asserting
themselves.
We will get a change for the better only
when the mass of workers learn that it
is to their advantage to co-operate with
capital. They cannot expect improved
living standards unless they work for
them. Before that can happen there must
be a new kind of trade-unionism—one
inspired by a sense of responsibility to
the community and free from associa-
tion with any political party.— Den
(N.S.W.).
Road Toll
N. S. Wales transport officials esti-
mate that by the end of the year the
death-toll on the roads will be over 1000,
and N.R.M.A. holds that until traffic
police are materially augmented the
death-toll will continue to increase.
The fact is that our traffic police are
too conspicuous and easily recognised.
Every motorist knows how many drivers,
particularly of lorries and speed wagons,
signal the whereabouts of the “demons”
to their pals passing in the opposite
direction.
Plainclothes constables are regularly
employed by the N.S.W. Police Depart-
ment for ordinary duty. Why not use
them for traffic work? In New Zealand
plainclothes traffic police have long been
the terror of road-hogs.
If the N.S.W. Police Department were
to pop half the traffic police into plain-
clothes and mount them on motor-bikes
of civilian type there would soon be a
decided improvement in road behavior.
—Helldud (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 185
Across.
I—Objects of terror are a pest and a
feature of unpopular decisions at
the stadium. (8)
s—l leave Dampier some home-
made bread which is less parched.
(6)
9 One of the ages are in reverse. (3)
10 — Characteristic of terroristically
Leftist countries belonging to a
method route unavailable to us.
(2, 5,2, 3)
12 —Chart girl going back. (3)
14 — Greeting with icy precipitation in
its entirety. (3, 4)
15 — Do the next below this, of just
about. (2)
16— He goes about with flappers. (4)
17 — Island group off North Australia.
(3)
19 — All right, a ratio between
diameter and circumference men-
tions a quadruped. (5)
20 — Secretly lam a cur according to
this novelist. (7)
22 —Reaped the crook in the van. (7)
26 —Shrubbery mount for Walpurgis
Night. (5)
28 — Eggs match between Zero and
One. (3)
29 — Shakspeare put a ban on Five
Hundred. (4)
31— Novel by Elinor Glyn. (2)
32 — Tibetan religion is to beat the
first-class stipendiary magistrate.
33—Chum. (3)
35—The French beside Japanese
weight with your relative of a
maze. (12)
37 — Dread one with nous. (3)
38 — Plunder the sun-god timber. (6)
39 — Asiatic city takes the ember
county to tea. (8)
Down.
1 — Dwellings place one between the
cork and the complaints of un-
milked herds. (9)
2 Leave the babbling brook with a
monkey. (7)
3 Marsh to gossip with the sick
over a town in N.S.W. (10)
4 Bird upset the lot in an Algerian
city. (7)
5 Precipitation of the west. (3)
6 Khachaturian is a wool-producer.
(4)
7 Month like Central Americans. (5)
8— Washer up in Tallinn. (5)
11- —A place for public discussion and
upsetting of pirate refreshment.
(5)
13 —By one Persian elf. (4)
18 —Tries to be noticed in this floor-
covering beside a little blazer.
(5, 5)
21 —Cheese cat swallows the parlia-
mentarian. (9)
23 — Fish characteristic of a critical
condition. (4)
24 Miss Lamour is cuckoo. (5)
25 — Dance in a N.S.W. town. (7)
27 —Combine with oxygen. (7)
29 Joker beats this boudoir person
who keeps bending forward re-
spectfully. (5)
30 — Boy overturned the first-class
kind of practitioner of 32 across
meaning ocean in Tibet. (5)
34 —Linen cut once a week at least
by the house-proud. (4)
36 —Worker, for instance, in a session
of organised voluntary work for
the queen, perhaps. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 184


•' Wxi'-'Vi
Si
vv
*54
V*
N\
. *
#.W
> N*
\v\i
\’N
N N
I
»
m.
»/v
N >
V'V^
>SN
II
VO
m
o*>ss ;
: *^J
*.£l
** <*
*•* .
DEFENCEand DEVELOPMENT
•.-^sj'.%-;jsl
•» *
*: V-
w
-can on
w
sm
mm
m
k
m
on
p/um ormsD cm
TP O TRANSPORT
0 COAL
© FOOD
O WATER
0 ROADS
Mp 0 STEEL
DEFENCE
M
HASTINGS PEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs and Darwin, NX
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs. Northern Territory
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED, Lae, New Guinea
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED. Head Office: William Street, Sydney. M 0412 (33 lines)
"I believe that oar FAITH In Australia's
future can be realised only by
WORK POWER directed Into the
seven great activities that
will, together, complete our
defence and development
simultaneously but without LOSS
of TIME. Many of the great
national projects coming under
these seven headings are being carried
out In Northern Australia and New Guinea v
where Hastings Deering establishments
are strategically placed to provide the
greatest service to the nation*”
