

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3801
DAVIS CUP RIVALS
Wednesday, December 17, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
HOME OF THE CELEBRATED WERNHER COLLECTION, LUTON HOO
LUTON HOO. the vast country mansion of Major-General Sir Harold
Wernher, recently opened to the public, contains one of the richest
collections of pictures and objects of art ever to be assembled by a private
collector in England.
The house itself stands in its spacious grounds of 1200 acres near
Luton in Bedfordshire, thirty miles from London. It occupies the site of a
house built by the Romans, and evidence of their occupation was discovered
in the shape of coins dating from the third century, together with a Roman
sarcophagus now exhibited in the British Museum. As far back as the
thirteenth century the properly was in the possession of the de Hoo family,
a member of which was created a Baron at Hastings in 1448. After passing
through several owners the house was bought by the third Earl of Bute,
George Ill’s unpopular Prime Minister. It was he who employed Robert
Adam, the famous architect, to redesign the exterior of the house in 1762.
At the same time Capability Brown, the landscape gardener, was commissioned
to lay out the gardens and grounds and to create an artificial lake. On three
occasions, in 1891, 1939 and 1950, Luton Hoo was visited by Queen Mary.
In 1903 this great estate was bought by the late Sir Julius Wernher, whose
immense fortune originated in South African diamond mines. The interior
of the house was modernised in the most lavish and expensive Edwardian
style, and the galleries were filled with art treasures from all over the world.
Because of his discriminating taste the Wernher Collection has gained world-
wide renown, and, with its recent additions, it is now one of the most
important collections in Britain. Among its numerous exhibits are splendid
examples of paintings by the old masters, as well as rich tapestries, medieval
carved ivories, Renaissance bronzes, Sevres and English porcelain, ceramics,
silver-gilt plate, Bohemian cut-glass, sixteenth-century jewellery and Louis XV
furniture. In addition, there are numerous examples of work in gold and
precious stones by Faberge, jeweller to the Imperial Russian Court. All these
exhibits, however, are only a prelude to the Dining Room, where the marble
walls are hung with Beauvais tapestries and the table, laid for eighteen
people, is a mass of gold plate.
For those whose interest lies in horses there is the “Brown Jack” Room,
which contains paintings, drawings, trophies and a magnificent bronze of the
famous racehorse which won the Queen Alexandra Stakes at Ascot on six
successive occasions between 1929 and 1934. This celebrated horse was owned
by Sir Harold Wernher.


ossa
nm
J3
at HOME!
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vie.
CUT HERE AND MAIL -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(S.B.352) ....Age
The Red Page
AN AMERICAN BIBLE
[The Reverend William Denton, of Akron, Ohio, last night used a blow-torch
to burn a copy of a revised standard version of the Bible which sold 1,600,000
copies in the month after its publication on September 30. —9 /12 / ’52.]
“The Revised Standard Version of the
Bible,” explains the preface, “is an
authorised revision of the American
Standard Version, published in 1901,
which was a revision of the King James
Version, published in 1611.”
Despite some seeming suggestion to
the contrary, this new American Bible
(published simultaneously in an English
edition by Thomas Nelson and Sons) is
a greatly changed version. It is reported
to have caused a sensation overseas. It
is a great work.
The learned committees of leading
American Protestant divines responsible
for it have made full use of the licence
allowed them under their guiding direc-
tion that the version should “embody
the best results of modern scholarship as
to the meaning of the Scriptures, and
express this meaning in English diction
which is designed for use in public and
private worship and preserves those
qualities which have given to the King
James Version a supreme place in Eng-
lish literature.” Looked into carefully,
that is a very open order, and so it has
been interpreted, for not only is the dic-
tion so changed that it is unusual to
come on an unaltered sentence or line but
there are many minor or broad changes
of meaning as well.
In sufficient justification the makers
quote their predecessors of the King
James Version: “Truly (good Christian
reader) we never thought from the be-
ginning, that we should need to make a
new Translation, nor yet to make of a
bad one a good one....but to make
good one better.” As a further disarm-
ing precaution they might well have
quoted also from that greatest of all
introductory prefaces: “For, was there
ever any thing projected, that savoured
any way of newness or renewing, but the
same endured many a storm of gainsay-
ing, or opposition?”
Or, as a last word, they could have
quoted the first word on the matter;
Saint Jerome, after making the first
translation of the whole Bible (into
Latin); “So great is the force of estab-
lished usage that even acknowledged
corruptions please the greater part, for
they prefer to have their copies pretty
rather than correct.” And, after all, the
main thing is that no amount of revising
or number of revisions can disturb the
place of the Authorised Version as the
supreme translation of all literature.
Gainsaying and opposition to this new
revision would perhaps be most likely to
come from those who regard as sacro-
sanct that original King James Ver-
sion first published in 1611. They would
have to pass over completely the quoted
apologia of its makers and to overlook
other things also. For one thing, there
were actually two issues of that English
Bible dated 1611, now known in
biblical bibliography as the Great He
Bible and the Great She Bible from the
variation “he went into the city” and
“she went into the city” between one and
the other in Ruth. For what little it is
worth, present reader’s theory is that the
latter variation (and the thousands of
other variations in the She issue) might
perhaps mean that this other issue was
put out to represent minority opinion
among the translators on disputed points
of translation. The important thing is
that, though each page in both issues be-
gins and ends with the same word, yet in
each page (vide Tudor Translations) there
are variations in text amounting in the
aggregate to many thousand instances.
That alone would seem ample warrant
for not regarding either of the 1611 issues
as sacrosanct, beyond reach or need of
revision. As well (apart from more im-
portant considerations) there is the
simple fact that the spelling has been
continually modernised over the three and
a half centuries by the Privileged Presses
in England (incidentally, the layman’s
Bible par excellence is their superbly'
printed and complete issue of the
Authorised Version called The Reader’s
Bible, published only last year). If revi-
sion is beyond sanction, then on this
ground alone we should still be reading:
“Nowe Moses kept the flocke of lethro
his father in law ” and “Two yong
bullocks and one ramme, seven lambs
of the first yeere, without spot, and three
tenth deales of flowre for a meate offer-
ing, mingled with 0y1e,,.. ” and in the
black-letter at that.
In much this same class there is the
further simple fact that many words,
accurately used in translating originally,
have either gone out of use altogether
or now have a completely changed mean-
ing ; by the oddity of evolution, some of
them now mean the exact opposites of
what they formerly meant: e.g., “allege”
used to mean “prove,” “prevent” meant
“precede,”
A curious point here is that many a
word which seems odd when encoun-
tered in current general American usage
is in fact a survival from Jacobean or
Elizabethan times or earlier: they use
“dame,” for instance, as Chaucer used
it. Also they use “presently” for “im-.
mediately,” as Shakspeare did; and it
says something for the American Bible
revisers that they refuse such survival
usages as these so-called “Americanisms.”
The revisers note that in the King
James Version more than three hundred
words are used in a sense substantially
different from that which they now con-
vey. But the weightiest warrant of all for
revision lies in the actual discoveries with
a b blical bearing made in recent times
by scholars, excavators, antiquaries and
others, leading to different interpretation
of the meaning of words, correcting
defective copies, providing new histori-
cal or geographical information, none of
all this accessible to the original trans-
lators, and in fact some of it available
only within the past fifty years.
With such, and other, weight of
warrant allowed, the revising now done
will no doubt still be a subject of hot
discussion while theological and literary
traditionalists and revisionists have a
breath left. There is material for a fine
old row on every page. The minor revis-
ings go from line to line continuously,
and a good many of the changes, it must
be said, seem to result more from indi-
vidualistic preference for words and
phrases than from any conceivable neces-
sity.
The most striking change of all prob-
ably is that, in Isaiah,
Behold, a virgin shall conceive,
And bear a son
becomes “Behold a young woman
but perhaps that is best left to the
theologians, armed, one hopes, with
a. good stout roll of the ancient
(inscribed) papyrus.
On the literary level, “And there was
evening and there was morning, one day”
is no doubt defensible —certainly it and
its like read well enough when you get
into the swing of them ; but to one ear
at least such a change as “and God
divided the light from the darkness” be-
coming “separated the light from the
darkness” is something worse than
capricious; it takes out of them the
inner power of words. There are many
such changes.
Curiously, in the face of such pro-
saicalising of prose, a great strength of
this revision comes from the poetry. This
differs considerably from that of the
King James Version. It differs not only
in words but also, if only slightly, in the
verse-form itself, sometimes strikingly in
cadence, and often quite importantly in
meaning. And in such books as the
verse-drama of Job, and in some respects
in the Song of Solomon, the change
seems, to the present reader, as often as
not one for the better. Most importantly,
the verse line here is generally a little
shorter ; and anyone who examines the
verse of the older version must surely be
struck by the number of words serving
no purpose but to. eke out lines at the
dictation of the verse measure.
On the other hand, when the revisers
sink they sink. Especially anyone
afflicted, or blessed, with an extra-sensi-
tive sense of the ridiculous may find in
this revised Job two of the worst lines in
the entire version, if not in the language ;
of Leviathan;
“His sneezings flash forth light”;
and of the warhorse:
“His majestic snorting is terrible.”
The line preceding that snorting line here
reads;
“Do you make him leap like the locust?”
instead of the poetry of the King James
Version:
“Canst thou make him afraid as a grass-
hopper?”
which is, poetically, quite a different
horse. But these are exceptions; and
on the other side we have much more
that bears the comparison, as, for ex-
ample and illustrating the often con-
siderable change of meaning, this from
the Job of the King James Version:
“Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds,
That abundance of waters may cover thee?
Canst thou send lightnings, that they may
go.
And say unto thee, ‘Here w'e are’?
Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts?
Or who hath given "understanding to the
heart?
Who can number the clouds in wisdom
Or who can stay the bottles of heaven,
When the dust groweth into hardness
And the clods cleave fast together?”
and the same passage from the new
revisers:
“Can you lift up your voice to the clouds,
that a flood of waters may cover you?
Can you send forth lightnings, that they
may go
and say to you, ‘Here we are’?
Who has put wisdom in the clouds,
or given understanding to the mists?
Who can number the clouds by wisdom?
Or who can tilt the waterskins of the
heavens,
when the dust runs into a mass
and the clods cleave fast together?”
Till now the present reader (evidently
in error) had thought the poets among
the King James translators may perhaps
have looked on England’s cloudy skies
and used “bottles” in the sense of old
Bottom’s donkey-breakfast: “Methinks
I have a great desire to a bottle of hay:
good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow,”
wherein, quip or not, bottle means
bundle; but apparently they did mean
what Mr. Justice Maxwell would take it
you meant if you were indiscreet enough
to speak to him of bottles. Apart from
this minor aspect, there is, of course, a
vast, emphatically a vast, difference in
conception of the Supreme Power be-
tween the idea of looking on the earth
as depicted and staying, or withholding,
the rains, and the beneficent act of tilting
the rains down.
As one other merely illustrative in-
stance (in what is wholly a literary
approach), there is the obviously jumbled
collection of lyrical fragments which, as
the Song of Solomon, the King James
translators rather desperately represented
as an allegory; like taking a choice of
Shakspeare’s lyrics, some of the more
passionate passages of the Sonnets and a
few of the lyrical dramatic passages,
stringing them haphazard together and
making a religious allegory of them. In
the King James Version of the Song of
Songs (■ Reader’s Bible) one of the lovely
passages is given for two voices, thus :
“O my dove, that art in the clefts of the
rock, in the secret places of the stairs,
Let me see thy countenance, let me hear
thy voice;
For sweet is thy voice, and thy countenance
is comely.”
“Take the foxes,
The little foxes, that spoil the vines:
For our vines have tender grapes.”
In the easily-readable Heinemann pub-
lication The Bible Designed to Be Read
as Literature, Ernest Sutherland Bates
surmises that the “foxes” are a survival-
fragment of a country song. The whole
passage is given by the revisers for the
one voice, thus:
“O my dove, in the clefts of the rock,
in the covert of the cliff,
let me see your face,
let me hear your voice,
for your voice is sweet,
and your face is comely,
Catch us the foxes,
- the little foxes,
that spoil the vineyards,
for our vineyards are in blossom.”
After which it doesn’t seem to matter
so much when “Stay me with flagons” is
revised down (no doubt a literal render-
ing) to the Prohibitionist cry of “Sustain
me with raisins.”
CECIL MANN.
THE CONVERSATION
His old fist like a knotted branch
He punched into his cap
Meaning, “This is a morning!—
The mist like white scoured wool
Is teased and spread about the hills,
The valleys’ bales are full.”
I nodded in agreement
And likewise punched my hat
Seeming to say, “At noonday
The wind will comb and spin
That fleece of mist to thread of cloud
And night will wind it in.”
His hand to the horizon
He waved in careless joy
Observing by this gesture,
As I was quick to know.
That over the hills lay China
And both of us should go.
As silent as two fence-posts
Years, years ago we stood
Having such talk as only
Children and fools may try,
That excellent old madman
Wordless and wise, and I.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Legend
Hemingway’s new little book, or long
short-story, The Old Man and the Sea
(Cape), achieves a great deal of the fairy-
tale quality for which his prose is suited.
His prose has always been as simple and
direct as Grimm, and as violent; but in
such classical stories as “The Killers” and
“The Undefeated” it has always been
precise, to make the violent and heroic
seem mundane, whereas in this story of
the old Mexican fisherman who hooked
an 18ft.- —striped marlin, was it? —fish,
and was towed about for several days
and nights before he killed it, the edges
are softened to gain the effect of legend.
How this is done would be hard to say.
The prose, on the surface, looks as precise
as ever ; but there is the little old fisher-
man in his cockleshell boat against the
changing colors of sea and sky; his
fabulous and fasting determination not to
let the big fish go, though the line run-
ning out cuts and burns his hands, though
he faints from starvation, and has to cut
up bait-fish and eat them raw —the
emphasis, as in the austere voice of
legend, is not on the heroism, but on the
lust for the fish that produces the heroism,
the fish that will sell for enough money
to keep the old man all the winter ;
and again this practical consideration is
emphasised when sharks tear the fish to
pieces while he is towing it home, leaving
only the head and the backbone —and the
heroism.
This story gives us a new point from
which to survey Hemingway’s work;
from it we see that this seeker and cele-
brator of the heroic in our age, one to
whom broad legendary concepts have not
been denied, as, for instance, that of “the
house,” in To Have and Have Not, that
profound conglomeration of everything
home means to a representative modern
man, has not used the magical unifying
gift which takes a work completely out
of its time into the world of legend. It
may be that gift that he is cultivating
now.
"Sea Devils"
On the night of December 18,
1941, Italian two-man torpedoes crept
into Alexandria harbor with a flotilla of
British destroyers and burst open the
bilges of battleships Valiant and Queen
Elizabeth. At one stroke, at negligible
cost, the Italian torpedo-men had crippled
the British heavy forces.
The story of this extremely courageous
branch of an otherwise singularly un-
distinguished Navy is told in Sea Devils
(Melrose), by J. Valerio Borghese, war-
time commander of the underwater divi-
sion of the Tenth Light Flotilla.
Two months after Italy declared war
the Italian submarine Iride, with three
human-torpedoes mounted on her deck-
casing, set sail for Alexandria and the
enemy fleet. The British were unco-
operative. Three R.A.F. torpedo-bombers
swept in, unloaded, and blew Iride in
half. Fourteen men survived. Thus
ended the first lesson which the Italians
had to learn before their success with the
Valiant and the Queen Elizabeth.
A month later the submarine Gondar,
similarly fitted, made another attempt at
Alexandria. Australian destroyer Stuart
happened to be in the way. Thus ended
the second lesson.
In July, 1941, a flotilla of Borghese’s
E-boats —fast motorboats packed with ex-
plosive which were to be rammed at
the targets at top speed—crept towards
Malta harbor, near midnight. Unfortu-
nately for the raiders, British radar (of
which the Italians knew nothing) had been
tracking them for some time. They were
("Red Page” continued on page 35)


- fv\ J✓>
,v . c
ri*
s&5
y Va l^u\-» J *'-'~"'~^Ba
2?S
-;•=
V/
<S r^
rr\
rr,
SLAZENGER'S LITHGOW RIFLE PARTS
Single Shot Rifle Parts. Barrel £6/2/-. Bolt complete 84/-. Sear
Extractor 16/7. Firing Pin 26/-. Firing Pin Spring lOd. Rear Sight
complete 14/-, Blade Front Sight 8/2. Stock complete 59/3.
Repeating Rifle Parts. Barrel 94/9. Breech Bolt complete £B/6/8. Stock
complete 89/3. Magazine 21/4. Firing Pin 16/2. Bead Foresight 13/6.
Complete Rear Sight 14/-.
Slazenger rifles at new reduced prices!
Just in time for Christmas! And what a gift these Slazenger Rifles make! That price reduction means no
reduction in their superb quality. These and our other hunting equipment will make your gifts intriguing,
unusual and decidedly inexpensive. That is what you want this year more than any other, that is what we
give you!
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
CUKSNinm »«> umvatw tyowoen
H i u*. " ”• *■» SVONEV
FOR ALL YOUR ACCESSORIES AS WELL
SEE ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Slazenger's Rifles
Model A1. Twenty-two cal. Slazenger’s Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle. Twenty-four-inch tapered barrel, elevating rear sight. Short
long or long rifle cartridges. £8/19/6.
Model 12. Twenty-two cal. Repeating Bolt Action Rifle. Twenty-
five-inch heavy barrel box magazine. Chambered long rifle
cartridges. Priced at £15/19/6.
Canvas Rifle Covers. Twenty-two cal. full length suitable for
single shot rifles. 30/-. Repeaters 37/6.
Leather Cartridge Belts. Twenty-two cal., 9/6 each. Twenty-two
cal. Leather Wrist Bands for only 3/3.
Sling Swivels for 4/6. Leather Rifle Slings 7/-.
Twenty-five-yard Rifle Targets. Dozen for only 1 /-
m
i!«S*
AiiVtZ.
mill
m
riunting Knife of stainless steel. An unusual gift, moderately
priced. 27/6, 30/-, 32/6.
Leather Sheaths 3/-.
Yes, Phone and Mail Orders
GUN DEPT., LWR. PITT ST. BOX 2712, G.P.O. PHONE M 2401
df
df


Most International of Games
Davis Cup Rivals
By DON WIMBLE
TODAY the Davis Cup, apart from
the Olympic Games, is the most com-
pletely international sporting event
in the world. And tennis is
the world’s most universally played game.
Even Dwight Davis, the American
who donated the Cup for what is officially
the International Lawn Tennis Champion-
ship, must have been astonished to see
the seed he had sown sprout so flourish-
ingly. For lawn tennis itself was then
a comparatively new game.
One of the crack players of his day,
Davis presented the Cup in 1900.
America naturally held the trophy
initially, and it was up to others to come
and get it. No doubt feeling a bit con-
scious of the fact that they had, after all,
invented the confounded game, the
British were the first, and, that year, the
only challengers. They were licked
hollow.
By a little irony of history, it happened
at Boston. Dates, August 8, 9 and 10,
1900. The first game, the first set and
the first match ever played for the Cup
all went to U.S.A.
In what seems today a breach of faith
with the Cup’s own history, Davis, the
donor, played the second, instead of
the opening singles. And, by another
little irony, he lost the first set lost by
U.S.A. in Davis Cup history.
Black, of Britain, took that set 6-4,
but Davis went on to take the next three
sets and the match, 6-2, 6-4, 6-4. The
doubles had already settled the issue,
and Davis in his next singles had downed
Gore 9-7 in the first set when, making
another “first” in Davis Cup history,
rain intervened. The score still stands at
nine-all for that never-finished second
set.
In 1901 there was no xhallenge, and
there and then Davis’s visionary idea
might have died a natural death. But
in this year of rest Britain was busy dis-
covering the first Big Pair of Davis Cup
history, the brothers H. L. and R. F.
Doherty. Britain fielded the brethren
against U.S.A.. in 1902 ; they lost, two
matches to three, but the experience
brought them to their peak, and they
were ready to win the Cup and hold it
for some years.
The pair bagged the trophy in 1903,
beating U.S.A. 4—l, with the solitary
lost match a default. The doubles that
year saw something that might never be
seen again in Davis Cup tennis: a match
between two pairs of brothers. As an
answer to the Dohertys, America turned
on the team of R. D. and G. L. Wrenn ;
the Dohertys beat them 7-5, 9-7, 2-6, 6-3.
In 1904 America gave the Cup a miss,
but for the first time other countries
began to take an interest, and there were
challenges from Belgium, France and
Austria. The Doherty brothers, sup-
ported by F, L.- Riseley, retained the
trophy for Britain.
Came 1905, America back in, and, for
the first time, Australasia, with famous
A. F. Wilding supplying the New Zea-
land ingredient.
The thread of Australia-U.S.A. rivalry
which runs so strongly through the Davis
Cup story had its beginning at Queen’s
Club, London, in July, 1905, when,
America, having defeated France and
Australasia having eliminated Austria,
the two met for the right to challenge
Britain in the final.
The U.S.A. earned the honor over-
whelmingly, five matches to nil. But the
Americans, and the tennis world, were
to hear more of the Australasian pair,
Messrs. Brookes and Wilding. They
were to give these parts a tennis
supremacy that was to last with only
one slip for 13 years.
In the rivals’ next encounter, at New-
port, Monmouthshire, in 1906, again for
the right to challenge Britain, Brookes
did not appear for Australasia, but,
though the Americans won, a greatly
improved Wilding took both his singles,
and the writing was on the wall. In the
challenge round the Doherty boys gave
Britain another victory, five matches to
nil, but, apart from one isolated win in
1912, it was to be Britain’s last win until
she developed another great combination
in Perry and Austin nearly 30 years later.
Australasia won the Davis Cup at the
third attempt. It was another triangular
contest, with Australasia and U.S.A.
playing-off at Wimbledon. Brookes, back
in the Australasian team, proved the
winning factor. They lost the doubles in
a long see-sawing match and Wilding
lost one of his singles, but he just scraped
home in his other singles after a five-set
match, and Brookes won both his singles
comfortably. The challenge round
against Britain was an exact repetition.
Again Wilding lost one of his singles and
won the other after a swaying five-set
match; again Brookes won both his
singles comfortably, and again the chal-
lengers lost the doubles.
So the Davis Cup made its first trip
to the Southern Hemisphere, and thither
came the American team for the next
clash, at Melbourne on November 27,
28 and 30, 1908, There must be many
still going strong who remember that
match.
Both sides relied on two-man teams.
For Australasia, of course, Brookes and
Wilding; for America, B. C. Wright and a
newcomer in F. B. Alexander. It was
tough going, but Brookes and Wilding
by now had welded into the first of many
mighty doubles teams produced here-
abouts, and that really decided the issue,
the pair also each taking a singles.
The 1909 challenge was played in
Sydney, Brookes and Wilding waltzing
through the American opposition to win
five-nil with the loss of only one set.
The patent superiority of the pair seemed,
in fact, to have a dampening effect; in
1910, for the second and only other time
in Davis Cup history, there was no chal-
lenge.
The following year Britain and America
again challenged, and again it was
Australasia-U.S.A., this time in Christ-
church (N.Z.). By yet another little
irony, in this, the first Davis Cup match
played in his own native New Zealand,
Anthony Wilding was unavailable. New
Zealand never saw its champion in action
in a Cup match. The only other match
played in N.Z. was the challenge round
of 1920, in Auckland, and by then Tony
Wilding had gone under in a grimmer
game—l9l4-18.
America sent a strong team to Christ-
church, but even with Wilding out they
were not good enough. There was,
however, a ray of hope for them in the
fine powerful tennis played by Mc-
Loughlin, the “Californian Comet” as he
became known. America, though, gave
proceedings a miss in 1912, and it was
Britain that succeeded in getting off with
the Cup, winning the tie, played in Mel-
bourne, 3-2.
Nationalism was strong in the air in
1913, one manifestation thereof a hitherto
unheard-of number of starters, France,
Germany, Belgium, South Africa and
Canada all entering the Cup lists, as well
as Australasia and- U.S.A. These old
regulars had their private battle out in
New York in June, with a brand-new
three-man team from here in S. N. Doust,
H. Rice and A. B. Jones. The upshot
of it was that the Americans won
3-2 and went on to win the challenge
round at Wimbledon, and the Davis Cup
went home for the first time since the
Doherty brothers started it on its overseas
travels 10 years earlier.
The next Davis Cup round was playec
under the gathering clouds of the Work
War I. And, oddly, the ones the old reli-
ables Brookes and Wilding pulverised
were the Germans. They did it at Pitts-
burg (U.S.A.) on August 1, with the loss
of only one set. A few days later, at that
rather fatal address Boston, they elimi-
nated the British, and on August 13, 14
and 15, at Forest Hills, New York, after
a couple of years’ spell from their erst-
while tormentors, the Americans once
again found themselves bowing in defeat
before Brookes and Wilding. Not with-
out a struggle, though. McLoughlin won
both his singles, defeating Brookes in
straight sets. The first set in that match
went to 17-15, up to then the longest
Davis Cup match on record.
The Davis Cup then went on to the
shelf, the racquets went into their presses
and the flannels were stowed away with
mothballs for five years. By the time
they were brought out again Wilding and
many others had gone.
America was not a first-up starter when
play resumed in 1919. The field oppos-
ing the holders comprised Britain, South
Africa, France and Belgium. Britain
survived and made the trip to Sydney
for the challenge round, played in
January. They found Brookes going
strong as ever for what was still called
Australasia, and, teamed with him,
Gerald Patterson, who won the Wimble-
don singles that year, and J. O. Ander-
son. With Brookes playing only in the
doubles, which he and Patterson won
6-0, 6-0, 6-2, the Australians comfortably
retained the Cup.
Then, in 1920, America weighed-in
with two mighty powerful arguments—
“ Big Bill” and “Little Bill” (W. T.
Tilden and W. M. Johnston), and it was
a shame to take the money. The chal-
lenge was played in Auckland, and the
Americans blitzed their late allies five
matches to nil. There was one redeem-
ing touch. It was Norman Brookes’s last
Davis Cup appearance, and for him it
was a grand finale. He was now 43, yet
he took both Tilden and Johnston to four
hard sets, and his doubles match with
Patterson was also a four-setter. In its
way it ranks as one of the classic feats
of Davis Cup history.
It marked, too, the end of one era
and the beginning of another. From
then on Big Bill and Little Bill were to
dominate world tennis for seven years.
By now the Davis Cup was beginning
to take on the international status it has
STORIES
“A Houseful of Bargains”
by Brian James
A story about a woman who collects
old furniture to end all stories about
women who collect old furniture.
In next week’s “Bulletin”
today. In 1921, in addition to Britain,
Australasia, Canada, Belgium and France,
there were entries from' India, Spain,
Argentina, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
the Philippines and Japan. Defeating
Australasia on the way through, Japan
joined Belgium on the exclusive list of
countries which have reached the chal-
lenge round at their first appearance —
and have never reached it again. The
Japs put up a fair show in the final,
but Tilden and Johnston didn’t drop a
match.
Australasia and America resumed chal-
lenge-round hostilities at Forest Hills in
September, 1922; another to the Tilden-
Johnston combine.
The number of entries had grown so
large by 1923 that the present zoning sys-
tem was established. And, for the first
time, Australia, instead of Australasia,
appeared among the starters.
But it was not till 1939 that the new
rating won the Cup. In the meantime
the old rivalry between this part of the
world and the U.S.A. had been re-
enacted a good many times, and once
more it was Australia-U.S.A. Again
war loomed, again the final was played
even as the storm broke —September 2,
4 and 5, and again Australia won and
held the bauble through a world war.
And thus it comes about that, purely
by the coincidence of two world wars,
Australia has had the Cup in its posses-
sion longer than any other country.
Wild-animal Trainer’s Manual
WHILST it is generally re-
garded as unethical in circus
circles for a trainer to go
into the lions’ cage with a
long whip in one hand, a lance in
the other and a sub-machine gun
sticking out of his hip-pocket, the
prudent trainer will always see that
he has an auxiliary weapon to back
up the traditionally defensive
Austrian chair with which he makes
passes at the animal when its bared
gums suddenly become visible.
The king of beasts is notoriously
sensitive to public humiliation. If,
therefore, on being sharply spoken
to for sulkily refusing to do a back-
somersault or spin a plate around on
the tip of its uptilted tail, it starts
roaring, the trainer should instantly
roar back at it.
Should the lion unaccountably
fail to be abashed by this, and, leap-
ing, snap the whip off, leaving only
an inch or so of leather from the
handle, and with a blow of its paw
swipe the chair out of its master’s
hand, there is absolutely no need for
the trainer to become alarmed if he
has had the foresight to provide him-
self with a toy water-pistol. The
roar of laughter which a squirt in
the eye will raise from the audience
will, theoretically at least, cause the
great animal to skulk back into its
corner, thoroughly beaten in spirit.
Sometimes a lion will stubbornly
refuse to open its mouth to allow the
trainer to put his head in as a climax
to the performance. Nothing is more
conducive to audience catcallings
than for them to have to wait while
the lion sits with its jaws tightly
clamped and the trainer is vainly try-
ing to force them apart.
One way to break down this resist-
ance is for the trainer simply to
ignore the recalcitrant animal and
set about opening half a dozen
oysters. Mystified by this manoeuvre,
the lion, inordinately curious by
nature, will bend a fascinated gaze
on the bivalves, which, as they are
opened, will kid Leo into believing
they are yawning, and he will forth-
with be impelled to do the same.
Should this stratagem fail the
trainer may with complete confi-
dence read to his charge a copy of
the Auditor-General’s Annual Re-
port. This, however, should never
be overdone, as it may cause the
lion to dislocate its jaws when going
for an outsize in yawns.
For the head-in-the-lion’s-mouth
act the experienced trainer wears —
although to the audience it may not
appear so, being painted white —a
collar made of |in. castiron. The
lion which has once tried to make
his upper and lower sets meet
through the jugular of its trainer
while he is performing the tonsil-
examining act is, after he has spat
out several teeth, usually resolved in
future to eschew all further thoughts
of vengeance.
Occasionally one will come across
a lion-tamer wearing a hearing-aid.
The more astute tamer, however,
keeps his hand on the lion’s chest
while he has his head in its mouth,
and thus receives warning, through
any sudden intake of breath, of an
imminent roar.
The tamer of the big cats has an
advantage not enjoyed by the lion-
tamer. By wearing a black-and-gold
football jersey he can so bemuse a
tiger into thinking it is looking at a
debilitated and plantigrade version of
itself it forgets to chew its tamer
up.
The most fearless tiger-trainers are
married men who find in a cageful
of the jungle-prowlers a beautiful
surcease from the terrors of the
domestic dragon.
The modern tamer leans heavily
on psychology in bringing the tiger
under his will. Generous treatment,
not fear, has been found the most
effective means of achieving this.
When, therefore, he is faced with
a venomously snarling animal, which
appears to be on the point of spring-
ing at him, the tiger-trainer need feel
no spine-creepings. All he has to do
is to produce a large photo of Farouk
taken in his bathing-trunks.
At sight of the ex-Gyppo
monarch’s 18 stone of blubber the
tiger will slaver and lick his chops,
and will eagerly gulp down the prof-
fered photo (which should not, of
course, be of cardboard).
The tiger, foolishly thinking it has
disposed of a human meal —as, in-
deed, it has, though only a synthetic
one—will be reduced to that stage
of happy fullness and consequent
benignity to the trainer who supplied
the fodder that it will joyously frisk
through hoop-jumpings and bike-
riding without any further trouble.
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 17, 1952
Vol. 73—No, 3801
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
PLANNING AND THE REAL PROBLEM
The Prime Ministers’ Conference in London has
agreed upon a plan to expand world production and
trade which primarily depends upon Commonwealth
countries taking anti-inflationary measures to check
rises in costs, developing new agricultural and industrial
projects to compete with foreign goods, and their
raising of living standards (and lowering of the cost
of living) by these means. A company of British
industrialists is being formed .to organise Common-
wealth development. The plan is to be put before
the United States and Europe, because it is believed
that international action is necessary to remove import
restrictions with which countries have, until now, tried
to balance their overseas trading accounts. “Trade, not
aid,” is the remedy suggested for the rehabilitation
of “soft” currencies.
The fundamental aims are to increase the produc-
tion of food, fuel and the machinery of expansion and
transport with a view to making the British countries
self-supporting.
Britain will concentrate especially on increasing
such output as will relieve her of the necessity for
dollar spending. She will increase her production of
refined oil to the enormous quantity of 28 million
tons within a year. Coal, steel and general capital-
goods outputs will be stepped up.
New Zealand, S. Africa, India, Ceylon all are to
make very substantial contributions in development on
a five-year basis. Canada’s future is already planned.
So far as can be gathered from the official report
and previous Press indications, the Australian share is
modest, but framed possibly with regard to the fact
that it will be carried through under a union policy of
loaf and an official “Labor” policy aimed to make it
fail anyway. It is probably as much as can be managed.
It is intended to increase our declining food-production
by 20 per cent, in bulk and £lOO million in value within
five years ; to continue to reduce imports, but by only
a small percentage. The plan involves doubling the
output of oats, an increase in the sugar output by
168,000 tons and the addition of a little over 3,000,000
acres, about 30 per cent., to the wheat-acreage. Expan-
sion of production of metals is foreshadowed, parti-
cularly lead, zinc, copper and aluminium; and the
agricultural plan naturally calls for a big lift in
fertiliser supply.
An important part of the scheme is the intention
to provide oil-refining capacity up to 6,300,000 tons,
against the present figure of 891,000 tons. But the
suggestion that electricity, roads and railways will
be “developed” seems at the moment more ambitious
than practical. There is so much leeway to be made up
in the bankrupt and decaying obsolescences which are
called railways in some States that it will take a Midas
fortune merely to keep them running over the next
few years. And if the Commonwealth makes a
move to develop them on any scale, State Governments
like the Cahill Ministry will immediately allow the
costs of the work to soar to the skies, and use it as
they have used the Eastern Suburbs railway scheme—
as a rest-home for tame “Labor” voters.
The Australian scheme does not go beyond the
plan already put before Parliament by Mr. McEwen.
It is, however, the best that can be done until inflation
has been dealt with effectively. Attempts at develop-
ment are apt to go bankrupt at present under the
influence of loaf and luxury-living. Generally speak-
ing, the crux of the burden does not lie so much in
wages as in the return given for them and the manner
in which they are expended.
Australians should respond to a proper and
understandable appeal to make them grasp the situa-
tion ; Lord Bruce’s remarks in Sydney last week should
have been enough for most of us. But invariably
honest endeavors to increase production become the
object of political opposition, and, even if a plan fell
from heaven with the brand of Jehovah on it. Dr.
Evatt would do his best to wreck it in the interests of a
“Labor” victory at the next election.
If the electors can be made to see that
it is more, profitable to save and invest in
expansion of production than in luxury-spending on
foreign goods, the battle is half-won. If they can be
brought to understand that the best method of wage-
increase is to make the money go further, and that
this can be achieved only by a little more production
per man-hour, they will probably respond cheerfully.
But they must comprehend that the fate of “full
employment” lies entirely in their own hands
and not in those of the politicians. If any
Government or party thinks it can expand unprofitable
or insecure industry on a permanent basis
and make producers sign a blank cheque to
buy machinery and erect plant which may presently be
driven idle by arbitrary and fantastic rises in the basic
wage, its outlook is purely visionary.
A first move in any plan for more
Australian production is to induce more under-
standing of the facts of economic life. Without
that, without security for investors guaranteed
by stable wages and commodity prices, any aspirations
which Governments may have are so much paper-
talk. The workers and employers must both come
to grips with this fact. And the Government must
come to grips with the fact that attempts at large-scale
Socialist development invariably create only more
burdens.
TALLY-HO!
Revolution on Ball-bearings
That Our-Foreign-Policy bird of the Evatt school of
diplomacy, whose disposition to “change plumage in
mid-flight” evoked derision even at Manhattan,
is not dead, blit lodges expectant in the dovecote
of Melbourne University’s professor of political
science. Mr. Ball has just given it an airing in the
form of a book, Nationalism and Communism in East
Asia, through Melbourne University Press, “under the
auspices of the Institute of Pacific Relations.”
No doubt its content helped Mr. Ball’s under-
graduate class to elect him a delegate to the late
Communist “peace” conference at Peking. Certain
disconcerting local reactions prevented Mr. Ball’s
acceptance, but the Peking Comintern will be grateful
for a commentary upon the Asian scene which is
just the stuff for their own propaganda purposes. As
something which will discount the “peace”-loving
Communists’ abrupt rejection of the Indian armistice
proposals for Korea —very startling to Mr, Ball’s
A.B.C. audiences —this book should be a godsend.
What Mr. Ball does not notice is that from Korea
to Casablanca the civil wars now rampant are financed
by Soviet gold. Over a year ago consignments of
Soviet gold to North Africa were recorded in Aus-
tralian Press messages as “mysterious,” Mr. Ball can
accept explanation of Asian unrest as a revolt against
British or French or American “imperialism,” but of
Russian “imperialism” no suspicion whatever crosses
his mind. It might not disturb his premises, but ;t
would confound his arguments, to recognise the line
of action prescribed by “Leninism-Stalinism” —that
the indoctrination of the peoples of China, India and
South-East Asia, and the linking of them to the Soviet
Union, is a preliminary to the winning of the world
struggle against Western democracy.
Mr. Ball relies on Socialism to save the “non-
Communist countries” of S.-E. Asia, though he regards
Korea, Indo-China, Thailand and Burma as due
inevitably to fall to Chinese Communism. Once the
Asians have successfully revolted against Western
colonialism, he believes, “they will again revolt if
Communists try to use them as means to Soviet ends/’
Look, for instance (he says), at how Communist propa-
ganda was softened in Indonesia after independence
rather than “offend Indonesian national sentiment”!
That the Japanese-treaty provisions (American-
made) leave open “the ultimate ownership” of the
Kuriles and South Saghalien he regards as a mistake,
because this is “likely to cause friction between Japan
and Russia,” as being an “arrangement which keeps
alive Russian and Chinese suspicions.” And why do
anything, anyway, to assist Japan’s future
against such neighbors? Japan, he says, is “playing
U.S. off against the Soviet,” and, if a third world war
came, might join Russia against America. And then,
discussing such a war, this policy-peddler goes on:
If the Soviet Union were to be victorious Japan
might be granted a free hand in the South Seas.
Of course, that would no longer matter after Britain
and Western Europe had been rubbed out and Wash-
ington were suing Moscow for peace. Having traced
this course from American dictation of the Japanese
peace-treaty, Mr. Ball propounds as an antidote:
It might he possible, though difficult, for the
Western democracies to reach an agreement with
Russia and China for the neutralisation of Japan.
They fear Japan as much as Australia and some other
[sic] countries in south-east Asia. Japan is anxious
about being armed as a Western ally. Perhaps on
the basis of these common fears it might be possible
to negotiate an agreement giving better promise of
peace.
Mr. Ball makes clear that of the many preliminary
confessions of guilt which Moscow would require—
with his full approval—of the free democracies, one
would have to be that the intervention in Korea was
not a U.N. action, but American, and another that
the U.N. declaration against China as an aggressor
was “morally meaningless” in East Asia, and therefore
ill-conceived. A promising beginning indeed!
Ironically enough it was on a Rockefeller Foun-
dation scholarship that Mr. Ball first passed through
the arch wherethrough gleamed the untravelled world.
It has left him with an inferiority complex.
He therefore appreciates fully the native Asian hatred
of Western capitalism and the revolt against it; yet,
continues Mr. Ball, there can in all these countries be
no combating of Communism, or of the depressed
conditions that make for Communism, without
“Western economic aid.” It is “economic aid” when
they want a loan and “capitalist exploitation” after
they have wangled it. After slanging “Western
capitalists” and their controls through 200 pages, Mr.
Ball suggests that, their property having been con-
fiscated or destroyed by revolution, they should begin
all over again:
The problem is to select the kind of Government
to which aid can be fruitfully given, and to decide
the conditions that should be imposed and the con-
trols that should be established.
There will be no surprise at Mr. Ball’s conclusion, in
true Socialist style, that the only thing is to hope for
the best.


Now available on heavy,
white, super-calendered
paper —■
"BILLY-
Cartoon
History
by
LOW"
Price, Is. 6d., post-free, from
The Bulletin,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
PLAIN ENGLISH
The States and Development
When he returns on Christmas Eve, Mr.
Menzies will, it is reported, ask for a
new approach by State Governments to
national development. He will ask them
to select national schemes which will
“improve Australia’s balance of pay-
ments with the rest of the world.” He
proposes to put this suggestion to the
Loan Council as soon as possible. He
says that the conference decision that
development projects should be harnessed
to the task of improving our inter-
national balances means that applications
for developmental money will have to be
subject to a “fairly high degree of selec-
tivity.”
Seats at the meeting at which his
proposition is put before Messrs.
Cahill, Cain and Gair should be worth
almost as much as those at the Corona-
tion, and it is as well that the Prime
Minister has given them due warning of
what is coming so that they can get their
frayed nerves in order; otherwise they
might conceivably drop dead from indig-
nation or heart-failure.
Mr. Menzies should well know that
the objective of State Governments like
Cahill’s is not to finance progress or
defeat the danger of depression and un-
employment, but to “defeat Menzies.”
He should be perfectly aware that what
they want at present most of all is a lot
of free money which the Education and
Health Ministers can scatter round like
a rajah in durbar-week to buy votes —
health and education always being good
electioneering. They also want money
to ward off the bailiffs until after Feb-
ruary 14, the day which Mr. Cahill is
supposed to have chosen as election-day
—and very appropriately, too, since it is
the anniversary of the day on which St.
Valentine was clubbed to death after
opening the eyes of his jailer’s blind
daughter.
It seems about time that the Common-
wealth Government, which professes to
be anti-Socialist, should begin to think
in terms of private enterprise and finance
instead of continuing to be the financier
of State squander, which is nearly always
directed by “Labor” Governments to
buying the floating vote with intent both
to remain in office and to defeat the
Liberals in the Federal sphere,
A good beginning would be the forma-
tion of a Development Corporation on
the lines of that formed as the result of
the Prime Ministers’ conference itself.
While Viscount Bruce is here seems a
suitable time to discuss it, though it will
be right against our normal national
principles to do a thing like that. He is
one of the world’s experts in such mat-
ters, and must be shunned like the plague.
There is no knowing what he might ask
us to do if he is called on to advise: to
work, perhaps—even to economise.
Australia's Gloomy Doctor
Dr. Evatt is fast assuming the role which
was the prerogative of Dean Inge in
Britain a few years ago. He can see no
good in anybody who is not a pessimist
and a nark. “Labor” can only keep up
with him by becoming a party of narks ;
its sole objective to defeat the Menzies
Government by the most unscrupulous
means—low methods even coming from
a party which has adopted most of its
methods from ex-Communist leaders
trained in the Moscow technique.
Recent test-polls, according to Dr.
Evatt, have shown that the people have
lost all confidence in the Government.
They have lost confidence, it seems, be-
cause absolutely full employment has not
been maintained, but only employment
slightly less full than when “Labor” left
office in 1949.
Dr. Evatt complains that the Govern-
ment hasn’t been able to reduce taxation
and restrain prices (which in his Gov-
ernment’s day increased to breaking-
point), largely because of the necessity for
defence measures and for taking a share
in the Korean war, matters on which he
concurs; and also because the greedy
unions which have supported him have
demanded more and more devastating
wage-rises and more and more . slow-
down.
Never a word does Dr. Evatt say about
the contrast between the chaos of industry
under his own Government’s rule, when
the Commonwealth was never without a
major stoppage and the air was full of
Communist threat, and the calm which
pervades industry today; never a mur-
mur of reminiscence about the continu-
ous wholesale unemployment, far larger
than any existing now, which was pro-
duced regularly in the years of “Labor’s”
reign by the orders of the Communist
union bosses, who become the real rulers
of the Commonwealth whenever “Labor”
is in power.
Does Dr. Evatt ever recall that in the
coalmining industry alone the workers
lost 1,700,000 working-days, roughly, and
£3,200,000 in wages—the equivalent of
400,000 average weekly male wage-units
at that time —in the final three years be-
fore the electors ignominiously kicked
his Government (and nearly kicked him)
out? Does he ever recall that the average
weekly earnings per male unit have
increased by £3 a week since he left
office, and reflect on the effects of this
on the capacity of industry to employ and
on prices, and also on the Government
to make the reductions of taxation which
he says it promised to make?
Not he. He is as fair in dealing with
the economic situation as he is in deal-
ing with the defeat of the Communists
in industry. It is enough to make even
Comrade Stalin laugh to hear this erst-
while counsel of the Communist party in
the High Court of Australia pleading that
it was the legislation passed by the
Chifley Government which chucked the
Communists out of the unions. It is
almost as laughable as his assumption
that the so-called A.L.P. industrial-groups
are part of the A.L.P. At the recent
Federal A.L.P. executive meeting the
Communist sympathisers in that body
were so numerous and fierce that the
gathering didn’t dare to so much as men-
tion the industrial-groups. A debate on
them might have wrecked the party.
Holiday Fever
Nobody can gum things up like a popu-
larity-hunting politician, as N.S.W. dis-
covered last Wednesday. Such of it as
happened to be listening to the radio on
the Tuesday were told that the Minister
for Education, Mr. Heffron, was about
to make an “important announcement.”
He made it—the State schools were to
close for the Christmas holidays next day.
Ihis was a day sooner than arranged.
It threw everything out of gear. Speech-
days had to be moved forward, and a
multitude of politicians, mayors, presi-
dents of Parent and Citizens’ Associations
and other prominent people listed to
hand out prizes and talk to the pupils in
primary and secondary schools had to
rush away from work, teachers had to
work frantically to get their records in
order a day earlier, and housewives, up
to their ears trying to get their Christmas
shopping done before “the kids come
home,” suddenly found the kids on their
hands.
Some people wanted to know the reason
for this sudden decision. Somebody said
it was in memory of an N.S.W. Director
of Education who died a week or so
before; others said it was Mr. Heffron’s
way of expressing to the State schools his
thanks for the money they’d collected
for the United Nations Appeal for
Children ; others said it was to celebrate
the “Labor” party’s election victory in
Victoria.
The real reason is that these “Labor”
Governments are holiday-mad. They be-
lieve that the workers love knocking-off
and that the best way to keep sweet with
them is give them holidays. Mr. Heffron
is a good “Labor” Minister, so he ex-
tends the ideas to the young, believing
that in their innocent little minds they’ll
remember him and his party with affec-
tion and gratitude,
All the same, he should have heard
what teachers, mothers, shire-presidents,
State politicians, headmasters, parents and
citizens’ associations and a lot of others
had to say about it.
A Warning to Wharfies
When a union delegate back from the
latest of the numerous 1.L.0. conferences
told the A.C.T.U. that increased output
would not hurt Australian trade-
unionists the representative of the water-
siders jumped on him with both feet and
accused him of trying “to mislead the
workers.” That charge, along with the
title “capitalist stooge,” is the reward
any man in the “Labor” movement has
to face who has the commonsense to see
and the courage to say that loafing and
go-slow are against the best interests of
the wage-earner and the nation. The
false doctrine that honest work produces
unemployment is so deeply implanted that
the gibe “Don’t work yourself out of a
job” is one of the best-known slogans in
the land.
No union has used the slogan more
vociferously or applied the principle
more assiduously than the Waterside
Workers’ Federation. The result has been
seen in the years since the war in the
lowered rate of cargo-handling, which
has led to a condition in the coastal trade
where vessels spend most of their time
alongside wharves and where costs and,
in consequence freights, soar to ridiculous
heights.
There is no likelihood that the wharfies
will ever 'work themselves out of a job,
but a new development in coastal ship-
ping suggests that some of them may find
they have loafed themselves out of one.
A newly-formed company plans to run
a ferry-type of freighter between Sydney
and Melbourne. Instead of loading and
discharging in the orthodox fashion, the
vessel will carry all its cargo in trailers
which will be run straight on board in
the manner of the war-time L.S.T.s. A
full cargo will comprise 100 loaded
trailers, which will be hauled on board at
one port and hauled off at the other 48
hours later and taken straight to their
delivery-points.
The sponsors of the plan reckon on
making 50 trips a year, and they believe
they can give a factory-to-store service
that will be cheaper than road transport
or ordinary sea-carriage ; delivery time,
48 hours. The advantage over road
transport will be that the prime-movers
for the trailers will be used only for
short hauls to and from the vessel in each
port; also there will be no road-tax. As
against normal shipping methods, the
gain will be in the vast difference in the
amount of time spent alongside the wharf.
Shipbuilding today is so costly that
companies cannot afford to have expen-
sive vessels virtually loafing in port, and
as they naturally pass the cost on in
freights this means that the community
cannot afford it, either. The projected
scheme may not be the final answer to
the problem, but it seems to have possi-
bilities. Maybe it will awaken the wharfies
to the fact that it has always been easier
to loaf yourself out of a job than to work
yourself out of one.
The Red Kernel
The dismissal of a Russian member of
the secretarial staff of U.N.O. for espion-
age adds one more evidence of the
absurdity of that useless and expensive
institution. Russia is opposed to every
shade of policy supported by the Western
nations. It is carrying on war against
them, and its satellites in China and
Korea have inflicted 364,000 casualties
on their armies in North Korea, apart
from costing them hundreds of millions
of pounds sterling. Russia has not voted
for anything in U.N.O. which has not
promoted its own programme of world
revolution. It has vetoed everything
which it thinks might tend towards world
unity and freedom from war.
Yet Russia holds monthly military
command alternately with the other
great Powers at U.N.O. headquarters, and
U.N.O. has had until now a Russian
official sitting as assistant secretary-
general in a position to learn every move
made by U.N.O. to counter Russian
aggression in Korea and Europe.
The heads of U.N.0., including Mr.
Trygve Lie, have now discovered with
astonishment that Comrade Skvortsov,
confidential assistant to the chief off-
sider of the general secretary, is actually
a spy. Mr. Skvortsov has lost his job—
the U.S. refuses to have him. And his
immediate boss, Comrade Constantin
Zinchenko, appears to feel it safer to be
in Russia just now.
This is the second time in a few months
that U.N.O. employees from Russia have
been caught spying. The last was Com-
rade Gubitchev, who was grabbed by the
F. 8.1. while helping to build U.N.O.’s
millionaire (and nightmare) headquarters
in New York. He was sentenced to 15
years’ hard labor in a United States jail,
but it was decided to deport him.
U.N.O. has obviously a Red kernel. It
has been compelled to appoint a com-
mittee of jurists who are now advising it
on its power to deal with “espionage or
subversive action by its officials against
the host country”—the United States.
Another committee is badly needed to
decide the best means of winding-up the
huge, quarrelling organisation which so
far has produced nothing but dissension
and cover for treachery and fifth-column
activity.
The Cost of Korea
The fact that the Korean war—in which
we have had 227 killed and 863 wounded
among 364,000 U.N.O. casualties—is
costing us £6,000,000 a year, including
transport, ammunition and additional
equipment, received less newspaper space
in Sydney dailies than the fact that the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. Executive had
expelled a party member.
What is six million anyhow? Merely
half the amount needed to cover the
Commonwealth’s revenue expenditure
three years or so before World War I;
merely a million more than the amount
which set Mr. Eddie Ward yelling
“Warmongers! Hands off Russia!”
when the Lyons Government proposed to
spend it in a year for the whole defence
of the Commonwealth in the ’thirties.
However, the cost of keeping 5270
members of Australia’s defence force
either in the war area or at forward base
in Japan should serve as a warning of
what can be expected if World War 111
breaks out, and some more provision
should surely be made to provide a re-
serve against contingencies, even if a cut
in civil spending is needed. Equipment
costs have at least quintupled since 1940,
and maintenance costs along with them.
To change the No. 77 Squadron,
R.A.A.F., over to modern jets cost a
cool £500,000, and the next change-over
will make this figure look modest.
Meteors and Venoms have gone on the
obsolescent list. With Sapphire and Avon
engines and four-jet heavies, like the
Valiant and the Avro-Vulcan, and
fighters like the Swift, Javelin and
Hawker Hunter, on the wing and gain-
ing power in each new version, present
spending standards are in the peanut
class.
On Woomera long-range weapons
project the Commonwealth Government
had spent £18,000,000 up to March this
year. The United Kingdom is said to be
prepared to spend £40,000,000 on experi-
ments on the range in the next three
years.
Woomera and Korea are, of course,
only small corners of Australia’s defence
operations. The Government is faced not
only with these commitments and with
those undertaken in Malaya and the
Mediterranean but with a huge pro-
gramme of construction subject to re-
vision with every new development in
material and method. Without it Aus-
tralia could be a happy country indeed,
with its taxation reduced to next to noth-
ing, its civil service cut down and even
its Ministry cut in numbers.
The Prime Minister must dream about
it sometimes —dream of how glorious it
would be if the load could suddenly be
lifted.
And yet sneering Communist voices
shout, as a hard-pressed Treasurer tries
to see where the money is to come from
if expansion of wages and intricacy of
war gear are to continue to increase at the
present rate; “Menzies Wants War!”
White-ant Tactics
Preparations by N.S.W. Premier Cahill
to hold his State elections in mid-February
are being expedited by the favorable
results for the party from the Victorian
State poll. Mr. Cahill seems thus com-
mitted to do his best to avoid a Loan
Council meeting, as announced by the
Prime Minister from London, to discuss
the commonsense financing of national
development projects in terms of the
London conference decision.
Obviously he and Dr. Evatt must eithei
defy the united British Commonwealth
decisions for the correction of inflated
domestic costs as part of the plan for
attracting overseas development loans, or
abandon their wild scheme for winning
votes by promising to restore unrestricted
spending by use of bank credits in un-
limited volume. Since the “swing to
‘Labor’ ” unquestionably results from the
o Continued on page 7)


Users Report—“lT’S WONDERFUL
SOME
The EFFECTIVE treatment for
RHEUMATISM
ARTHRITIS
GOUT
and swollen and inflamed joints
There is NO substitute
Colchisone is the only treatment of its kind available in Australia.
Made in England from a special formula, it contains individually
effective ingredients which, when blended together by the exclusive
process used in the manufacture of this amazing product, give outstanding
and almost instant relief. It is guaranteed harmless.
COLCHISONE
All Chemists. Price 30/- per bottle with diet
instructions (one bottle is usually sufficient).
Rickard Medical Products Pty Ltd., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
swallowing by unattached voters of Dr.
Evatt’s undertaking to “create” money in
return for votes, “Labor” is plainly going
to try to drown with its big drum any
warnings from the London conference,
and to refuse to listen to the Prime
Minister on his return.
To the vamped-up scare about another
depression “Labor” at the weekend
sought to work up another to frighten
contributors to the hospital-benefits
scheme by throwing doubt on hospital-
fund societies already hallmarked with
Government approval and in possession
of strong funds from the responding
public. The extent to which Senator
McKenna adventured in barefaced false-
witness to the facts of hospital subsidies
from taxation might even suggest that
“Labor” is growing anxious about the
strength of its pro-inflation “swing.” If
Dr. Evatt and Mr. McKenna have their
way with the national finances the whole
hospital insurance scheme will indeed be
rendered worthless and all other insur-
ance likewise.
Bradfield by-election will provide a test
of the stamina of what esteems itself as
an educated electorate confronted with
the facts of life at this critical period for
Australian economy. If Bradfield “can’t
take it,” how can intelligent Liberals ex-
pect the mobs who yell for the Evatt-
Ward Socialist revaluation to reject the
promises of spoonfeeding on Govern-
ment credit? It is something of a por-
tent to see the local followers of a party
whose Government’s policy is one of
spreading the cost of fighting inflation
over all sections of the community
forsaking the appeal to unity at the behest
of an “Independent” whose own first
loyalty is to one of the tightest organisa-
tions in our midst, and is supported in
his campaign to break the Liberal ranks
by a party which regards any slightest
departure from an iron-bound pledge to
“vote Labor” as a capital offence and
punishes it as such.
The compound effect upon existing in-
flation and high prices which would
follow a Socialist return to power at
Canberra would fall with the severest
impact of all on the workers of Australia.
Three short years ago the majority of
the electors recognised and feared this,
and voted accordingly. The recovery
from that danger, while only now be-
ginning to reveal itself, has already
blinded many Liberals to the fact that
this is the critical time for driving home
the counter-effort.
That is why the Evatts and Cahills and
their Communist allies are working their
hardiest to white-ant the Liberal ranks.
POLITICAL POINTS
When Hardie, Q.C., first announced his
nomination for Bradfield, Richard Win-
deyer, Q.C., was mentioned as one of his
sponsors ; but last week he made a public
statement that although he had welcomed
the announcement of Hardie’s candidature
as an “independent,” he now wished to
dissociate himself from “a campaign
stressing only features of the Labor
party’s propaganda,” He had found in
Hardie’s utterances “no antagonism to
Labor’s general aims.”
Hardie came back next day with a
statement that his attitude in the campaign
had been strictly non-partisan, that he
had expressed a real appreciation of the
Government’s difficulties and that he had
only attacked its taxation-policies “as
dedicated by a Country-party Treasurer
and his .socialistically-minded advisers.”
There was no doubt where he himself
stood on the question of Socialism.
There may be no doubt in Mr. Hardie’s
mind as to where he stands, but there is
also no doubt which party stands to
gain most should he win Bradfield—the
Evatt-Socialist party. Moreover, Mr.
Hardie, who hates the porf-Socialist policy
which he ascribes to the Treasurer
Fadden, cannot win without getting every
full-Socialist vote in Bradfield, either
direct or by transfer from the unendorsed
Socialist candidate Somerville-Smith,
who is directing his supporters to give
their second-preferences to Hardie.
• •
Edward Wright is making no attempt
to cash-in on the unpopularity of Fadden
or on the “Labor” catch-cry of unem-
ployment. He claims he is standing on
“a solitary issue” and that the electors
will have no difficulty in sorting him out:
My interest in Bradfield is simple and
straightforward. I believe that this elec-
torate —and only this electorate —will sup-
port a demonstration of protest not only
against the Government’s A.N.Z.U.S.
policy, but its supine acceptance of the
mood which currently questions Britain’s
standing in the world today.
It is not likely that Bradfield will sup-
port Wright to the extent of electing him,
but the electorate’s late representative
would probably give him an approving
pat on the shoulder for the sentiment.
Wright is asking his supporters to give
their second prefs to Turner, the official
Liberal.
• •
Arguing that the reason there were
few women in Parliamentary life in Aus-
tralia was that very few were qualified for
the job, a correspondent in “S. M. Herald”
left himself wide open for the reply he
very quickly got. Gertrude Melville,
M.L.C., was first in with the cutting
comment that “it is unfortunate for our
Parliament and our country that there
are also very few men qualified.”
m m
Giving the taxpayer the right to assess
his own provisional tax —under threat of
fine if he under-assesses by more than 20
p.c.—is merely a palliative. It doesn’t
alter the fact that provisional tax is a
form of revenue-gathering that is often
unjust,
• •
For the first time in 12 years Christmas
is approaching without any fears being
expressed of a coal-shortage. It is ex-
pected that when the miners knock off
on Friday for the holidays they will have
produced a record output. Surely that
fellow Menzies is entitled to some credit
for increased output and reduced stop-
pages?
• •
Victoria’s new Parliament will have a
brief Christmas-greetings session next
week.- The present plan is for Premier
Cain to face the House on Monday.
Members will be sworn in and then Cain
will put through the estimates already
prepared by the defeated McDonald
Government so as to ensure Supply till
June. On Christmas Eve Parliament will
adjourn, probably until the end of March.
• •
Cain will probably introduce a bill
providing for a two-for-one redistribu-
tion early in the new year, but there is
no likelihood that its passing will be
followed by another election. Cain has
the numbers to see his three years out
—unless the Legislative Council decides
to be difficult.
• •
Hollway’s rebel-Libs, Gartside and
MacLeod, hold the balance of power in
the Legislative Council, where party-
strengths are “Labor,” 15 ; Libs (includ-
ing one Independent Lib.), 9 ; Country-
party, 7; Hollway Libs, 2. The re-
maining seat is vacant through the death
last week of Trevor Harvey, Minister for
Labor in the Thirteen Farmers’ Govern-
ment. Harvey was member for Gippsland
province, and “Labor” has high hopes
of picking up the seat at the by-election ;
their man polled well at the Council
election last June. In the meantime it
seems that Gartside and MacLeod will
suppprt “Labor” for the purpose of pass-
ing the two-for-one electoral bill, but
on other matters will be agin the Govern-
ment.
Speculation as to whether Hollway and
Co. would be admitted to the L.C.P. fold
ceased temporarily when the acting-
leader of the party invited “loyal
members” to a meeting to be held this
morning “to determine some important
matters.” Dennett, Don, Tovell, Gart-
side and MacLeod, although still members
of the L.C.P., were not invited. Holl-
way, of course, was expelled from the
Parliamentary party at the time the split
began.
Dennett, M.L.A., one of the batch
locked out, commented that it was time
all Liberals tried to get together. He
said:
They should try to concentrate upon the
many things about which they agree rather
than that some should try to distort and
magnify the things about which they dis-
agree.
There are some Liberals outside Vic-
toria who might well consider those re-
marks.
, • •
Under* the “master plan” for Em-
pire development Australia is supposed to
develop its transport systems. It won’t
develop road-transport if the States have
any say in the business.
• •
What the Alice Springs correspondent
of “S. M. Herald” called “one of the
most widely-representative meetings ever
held in Alice Springs” decided to urge the
A.I.M. to keep the Alice hostel and the
Centralian patrol going and offered to
give assistance to help it do so. “Mr.
Jim Davey, of Granite Downs station,
offered a bullock a year,” said the cor-
respondent. Doubtless that will assist,
but the A.I.M. spent £15,000 more than
its revenue last year, and this year the
work will cost £lB,OOO more. There’ll
be a few more bullocks needed.
• •
“BuS issue to go to M.P.s.” When
Melbourne folk read this headline they
thought at first that it was just one more
addition to the long list of “perks” en-
joyed by Parliamentarians. They were
wrong; it wasn’t a case of a free car
to every member, but just an intimation
that complaints about a suburban bus-
service were to be referred to the local
members.
• •
Another batch of so-called Australian
delegates is attending the latest “World
Peace Congress” in Vienna, where the
main theme of all speeches is the glori-
fication of the peace-loving Soviet (plus
satellites) and the vilifying of America
and other warmongering Western nations.
Even Aneurin Bevan is now awake to
the phony nature of these stunts; he
refers to the Vienna show as “a fake
clay-pigeon decoy” although the
metaphor is somewhat mixed, the mean-
ing is clear —and suggests that those going
to Vienna should pay some attention to
what is happening in Prague.
There’ll be no by-elections for the two
seats vacant in the N. S. Wales Assembly
—Marrickville, through the death of C. C.
Lazzarini, the Father of the House, and
Gordon, which H. B. Turner resigned in
order to contest Bradfield. With a
general election coming up somewhere
around St. Valentine’s Day, Premier
Cahill has decided that the seats can
remain empty till then—with which deci-
sion, for once, no one will argue.
• •
Unlike Sydney, Melbourne will not
have to go five days without fresh bread
over the Christmas break. The bread-
trade wages board did not allow the State
Minister there simply to declare what
should happen. It met and its recom-
mendation* assured of the Minister’s
approval, was that bread should be baked
and delivered on the Saturday, although
a public holiday. All country bakers and
some in the city were against the five-day
breadless period, and the union regarded
it as undue hardship both on their
members and the public. The board also
rejected a union claim for penalty-rates
of pay at double-time for the Saturday.
Most Melbourne butcher-shops are also
expected to open Saturday morning.
• •
Viscount Bruce talked some sound
horse-sense to the Constitutional Associa-
tion in Sydney on Thursday. Stressing
that if we are to retain our export-
markets we must get costs down, he said
the truth was there was no substitute for
work. He deplored the tendency to look
to the Government for everything. The
job of bringing down costs, he said, would
have to be done by the people, though
Governments could help by “relieving
taxation and minimising controls.”
• •
Senator McLeay told the Australian
Transport Advisory Council that the 40-
hour week had cost the Australian railway
systems an extra £8.5 million in 1952. If
that’s the position after five years of it,
what’s it going to be after 10?
• •
A “Labor” spokesman, given space to
express his party’s viewpoint in Brisbane
“Courier-Mail,” had this to say on unem-
ployment :
Our [Queensland’s] pool of unemployed
is smaller because the State Labor Govern-
ment has so wisely husbanded its resources
that now, in time of economic crisis, it can
take action to relieve the position. Other
States not so fortunate as Queensland, with
its long record of stable Labor Govern-
ments, have not the reserves to do this.
Consequently their people are faced with
unemployment and fear of the future, due
to an ineffectual Federal Government.
If that argument is sound it would be
interesting to have the writer’s explana-
tion why New South Wales, which has
had a “Labor” Government since 1941,
now has easily the highest percentage of
unemployed of all the States. Surely it
can’t be that the McKell-McGrrrrr-Cahill
Governments have been unstable and
have unwisely squandered their
resources?
• •
Back from an 1.L.0. conference
N. Thom, Federal secretary of
the Electrical Trades Union, told
the A.C.T.U. that Australian workers
would lose nothing by increasing
their production. He quoted Sweden
as an example of a prosperous country
where trade-unions practised high pro-
duction and enjoyed good conditions.
His remarks drew from the wharfies’
representative, C. Reilly, the comment
that what he said was twaddle and eye-
wash, and that he was merely trying to
mislead the workers.
Unfortunately for Australia more
“Labor” leaders —both industrial and
political—seem to support Reilly’s view
than Thom’s.
• •
The 16th Security Loan closed on
Thursday, being filled two days before
the date originally fixed for closing.
“Labor” propagandists had urged that
the reason previous loans had failed was
lack of confidence in the Menzies Govern-
ment ; the Government said it was be-
cause interest-rates had been too low.
They put up the rate to p.c. and the
loan filled comfortably. Perhaps Dr.
Evatt will now say whether the higher
rate was responsible or whether the public
has regained confidence in the Govern-
ment.
• •
N.S.W. State executive of the A.L.P.
has sacked the branch’s general secretary,
E. G. Wright. President Colboume says
the dismissal is for “alleged failure to
carry out the responsibilities of his office
in accordance with the rules.” Wright
says he’s not surprised and has been ex-
pecting the axe ever since June, when
“the present faction seized control.”
“Present faction” means supporters of
A.W.U, leader Dougherty; Wright is a
Ferguson man —or was until Jackie was
transported to the Milky Way.
• <
A Prahran (Vic.) shopkeeper who
started giving away a bottle of beer with
every thirty-bob shirt sold was fined £25
for a breach of the Licensing Act. On
appeal Mitchell, J., reduced the fine to
£l, but when counsel pointed out that
£25 was the minimum fine under the Act,
he adjourned the appeal. Meanwhile,
beer may not be given away with shirts.
The necessity of banning the giving-away
of shirts with beer has not arisen.
• «
The Reds suffered another defeat in
union elections of the Victorian branch
of the F.E.D.F.A., where not one of their
candidates got home. On the other hand,
Communist Idris Williams retained his
post as president of the Miners’ Federa-
tion by an increased majority.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“F.T.”; The air-hostess’s story. She
had asked an elderly lady on the Mel-
bourne-to-Sydney plane whether she
would like some barley-sugar before
taking off. The old lady asked what it
was for and was told “It’s supposed to
prevent adverse effects on the ears.” After
she had done the rounds of the other
passengers, the hostess came back to the
old lady. There was a piece of barley-
sugar sticking out of each of her. ears.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Felo de Se”: It was the first play I
had ever seen. I hadn’t paid, but was
hanging round the open door of the town
hall. “Held for the Enemy,” a free-for-
all version of the American Civil War,
held me spellbound. When the climax
was reached someone backstage let off a
double-bunger and pushed over a pile
of bricks. To my great satisfaction the
wall (the bricks) flattened out the villain,
who was as loathsome as they made them
in those days. He was carried off and
I was duly impressed by the spectacle of
villainy getting its just deserts. A few
moments later the villain turned up at
the box-office alongside me, covered with
coaldust and stage-blood, and said to
the bloke in the box, “Jerry, you cow,
you can’t get away with this. There was
thirteen-pound-ten in the house and
you’ve only handed in eleven. Come
clean, you swindler!” Before Jerry had
time to reply the villain was joined by
the pure and suffering heroine, who went
for Jerry with a line of Billingsgate all
her own. Jerry, simmering with pro-
fanity, came dean to the extent of another
quid and departed to distribute bills in
another hamlet.
“Convict Once”: Out of a clear Mel-
bourne sky—which unassailably fixes
November 12, 1952, as the date-
descended Nemesis in the form of a burly
minion of the Victorian Railways who
asked if I had a ticket and, if so, why
was I ducking off the platform by the
unguarded eastern end instead of man-
fully playing my part in the milling
queue at the ticket-barrier. In
momentary panic I foolishly
decided to deny everything even to
the possession of a perfectly good
season-ticket. I later produced
the brief and hoped all was well,
but today I got my bluey in the
form of a warning that, unless
I weighed in with five-bob within
seven days, dark things may be
done to me for having “left the
platform in an unauthorised
manner.” Cravenly and promptly
I mailed the dollar, but that does
not quiet my conscience, my
travail arising from uncertainty
as to what constitutes leaving the
platform “in an unauthorised
manner.” I recall one wet evening
on which I left it on my rump.
On a wetter paynight I left it on
my ear after disembarking from
the drunks’ express. On yet an-
other dark night I left it round
11.30 p.m. protectively arm-in-arm
with a frightened young girl-child
of 18 whose timorous plea “How
about a light for me fag, sport?”
had awakened my sense of chivalry. My
pleasant prospect of renewal of acquaint-
ance with the lass has been blighted by
the fear that the department might view
my chivalry as “leaving the platform in an
unauthorised manner” a contention
which would win wholehearted support
from my missus.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Becks”: That poor fellow who tries
to give away money and finds it the
hardest job in the world has been in
the news again. This time he put on his
act in Vancouver, British Columbia; he
stood on the kerb with a handful of
dollar-bills and a sign, “Please take one,”
and, according to the cables, it took him
half an hour to get rid of five. At least
that’s an improvement on the usual story
which leaves him with his entire stock.
Perhaps people are becoming less sus-
picious (or more gullible, or more
avaricious). Back in great-grandpa’s day
the give-away man used to stand on
London Bridge and offer golden Sovereigns
and there’d be never a taker. Since then
he has made his little experiment in most
of the world’s great cities, and as his
story must have appeared in every news-
paper and magazine in the world I can’t
understand why he still finds it so hard
to get rid of his stock. I wish he’d try
it in George-street.
❖ *X* ❖
“Bo”: You don’t really savor to the
full the foibles of humanity in the mass
until you try a civic improvement which
isn’t going to cost them anything. A
few of us got a tree-planting scheme
under way, council agreed, marked out
the positions, had a stake driven in and a
"I'd like you to meet the celebrated author of ‘Lubras in Love.' ”
£ii> Biao>
heap of soil put alongside each site, then
had the young trees sent from a nursery
to one ratepayer’s house. On Sunday
morning a few of us delivered them. Some
accepted them with alacrity and promptly
reached for mattock and spade. Several
eyed the gifts with an obviously deep
suspicion, wondering where the catch lay.
The inevitable crank refused to have any-
thing to do with it, “on principle,” An-
other refused to plant his because he had
the council in the gun for something,
A few finally agreed, after bitterly con-
tending that council workmen should
have been sent around to put ’em in—
average time of planting, four minutes,
A couple roundly condemned council for
slinging ratepayers’ money around on
beautification schemes when more urgent
work should be done, and there were the
usual cavillers at the type of tree chosen.
There were, of course, the dopes. One
Woman wouldn’t take hers at first because
her husband was out and she couldn’t
possibly leave off cooking to plant it—
she seemed quite surprised that the
sapling would stay alive in its cardboard
overcoat a couple of hours. But the
prize idiot just put his in the heap of
earth, 18in. above ground-level!
+> *t* *i*
“Sebak”; The lost coin was only a
shilling, but it stopped production on
three machines as the operators joined in
the search. Three broad beams were
pointing ceiling-wards with their owners’
endeavors to crawl under Sin. spaces,
when the boss came past. “What’s lost?”
he inquired without rancor. Jonesy
looked up, decided that a little exaggera-
tion was called for, and provided it;
“Chick’s lost a quid-note.” “Ah, well,
you won’t have to look far,” commented
the trump, and walked on, “What did
he mean by that crack?” asked Jonesy,
puzzled. “I dunno —unless he meant
‘Don’t waste too much time over it,’ ”
Chick said. Before other opinions could
be given the boss returned. “Find it?”
he asked. “N-oo,” Jonesy hesitated, “we
haven’t, yet.” “It won’t be far away,”
chuckled his Nibs with that Christmas
spirit. “A quid doesn’t go far these
days.”
“Enncay”: Mention (B. 3/12/’52) of
Parkes having no use for his tobacco
issue reminds me that The Bulletin
once printed the following par: “Does
Parkes smoke? Not in this world.”
❖ *> ***
“Billy S.”: It was bottled-beer hand-
out-time in the local when I dropped in
to get some polite plonk for the better-
half who wanted to turn it on for a
couple of old school chums. In among
the ticket-holders was a Chinaman sans
English and sans ticket. He kept point-
ing to the bottles of local beer, but the
despots behind the counter heeded him
not. Giving it up he turned away and,
as he pushed his way out, he broke out
into a torrent of Chinese. I don’t under-
stand a word of the lingo but I know
exactly what he called those boys—just
what I called them myself a few minutes
later, after I’d got the wine and tried
putting it on them for some beer. English
being my only lingo, I had to say my
piece under my breath.
+*<■ +£ +j<-
“Ognop”: When some of Sydney’s
footboard-trams were recently converted
to corridor-type by cutting seats out down
the centre, it was reported that two women
had been just saved from sitting on the
seat that wasn’t there. I saw something
similar happen 50 years ago, when the
“improvement” was first tried. The first
trip of the test tram was from Bondi
Junction to city. My compartment was
full when the victim climbed aboard, and,
spotting the seat that wasn’t there, sidled
along to it, presented his stern to the
opening, and prepared to sit. He
straightened up, surprised, when he felt
a hand placed under his posterior. Then
he tried again, only to be restrained once
more by a hand placed under him. This
time he straightened up with a jerk. He
was really annoyed, and with a glare at
his would-be benefactor, who hadn’t
looked up from his paper, flopped reso-
lutely into the gap. When he was
assisted to his feet again it was
a toss-up which ached most, his stern
or the sides of the other passengers.
+*♦ +£♦
“North 5 West”: Once worked under
an old Cousin Jack mine-manager who
was famous for his annual report to his
directors in London. In this document
he never failed to mention some machine
which he had “rehabitulated” and an-
other “jettonised” during the year. Other
regular items were a reference to a
machine bought from a Perth manufac-
turer in order to encourage “indigent”
industry and a development in the mine
in close “primoxity” to where he had
anticipated. Oswald Pryor would have
loved the old fellow!
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
S. J. Lynch: “C. Towers” (B.
29/10/’52) is a little off the beam when
he says that not even the oldest inhabitant
of the Bulahdelah district can recall
where Deighton Taylor’s house stood. If
he cares to walk along Lake-road, Bulah-
delah, he will find, about half a mile south
of the town, a house occupied by the
family of the late “Cass” Smith. The
garden in front of this house is the site
of the one in which Rachel Henning lived
when her husband was managing the
logging-business for Somerville. “Cass”
Smith (my grandfather) acquired the pro-
perty over 60 years ago, and the original
house was then standing. He replaced it
with a new house further back from the
road; this in turn gave way to the
present residence.
* *t* ***
“F.S.”: The thorny question of the
disposal of the burnt-out Wilson Hall at
the University of Melbourne has now
been settled, the council having decided
to remove it altogether. Reasons given
are that to rebuild it in its original form
would cost a fortune, even if there were
the architects and masons to do it and
give it the quality it had. But why
remove it? Why not leave it as it is and
grow ivy over it? It looks better as a
ruin than it did as a whole building, and
the space it occupies is a fleabite in the
university’s 60 acres. Hundreds or
abbeys, churches, palaces, fortresses and
baronial castles are preserved in England,
and some of them are in a f a [™ ore
dilapidated state than the Wilson.
Visitors used to wonder that Rodin s
studio was full of bits of Greek statuary
—a bit of a breast, an arm or an Mikle
that had no doubt been knocked off some
ancient statue by the Vandals. Rodin
was capable of seeing that there was t e
same quality in the fragment as in the
complete statue and that as much could
be learnt from it. Rodin would have
thought the University . Council a pack or
vandals for throwing away the wfiole o
a hall as fine as the Wilson just because
fire got away with a portion.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
This year, on Christmas-shopping bent,
I’m set on spending vast amounts
On bottles full of art and scent
Costing quids and quids an ounce:
“Crepe de Chine” and “Houbigant,”
“Shocking,” “Reve d’Amour”
“Taboo”
And one my love wore like a song
When songs and love were true-
And when nobody is about
I’ll open boxes, break the crink-
led wrappings, take the stoppers out
And pour the contents down the sink:
“Crepe de Chine” and “Houbigant,”
“Shocking,” “Reve d’Amour,”
“Taboo,”
And one my love wore like a song
When songs and love were true-
I’ll fill my bottles amber-clear
From one I gained by plot and plan:
A sniff of Sydney bottled beer
Will be more rare this Christmas than
“Crepe de Chine” or “Houbigant,”
“Shocking,” “Reve d’Amour,”
“Taboo,”
Or one my love wore like a song
When songs and love were true-
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Springvale”: The contestants sailed
into the fight with a will. Here was no
namby-pamby exhibition, no gentlemanly
sparring for position. The fleshier of
the two tried desperately to overthrow
the lighter, more agile opponent, but just
couldn’t manage it, the latter writhing out
of the hold on each occasion. Brawn
soon tired of this elusive byplay, and
charged in with head down. That was
it. A swift left-hand grab of the hair,
a savage wrench of the head backward,
an upthrust right knee-jab to the solar-
plexus-—and agility had brawn flat on
its back, helpless and yelling with pain.
A bite on the forearm by the vanquished
heavyweight was quickly answered by an
anti-clockwise twist of the puggish nose.
A yell of mercy. Capitulation. No —
not a stadium wrestling match. Just a
couple of schoolgirls showing ’em how.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Piketrailer”? Probably the hoariest
crack of the two wars was the oft-
repeated yearning for a nice cushy job
on some R.T.O.’s staff tactically sited near
the fleshpots. But I often wondered if
those jobs were really cushy after all;
those Movement boys always looked per-
manently harassed to me. In fact, the
mere mention of Movement Control
makes me think of one of the most over-
worked staff officers of all time, the Em-
barkation Staff Officer at Southampton
who was responsible for getting the bulk
of the B.E.F. to France in 1914. The
day came in this tormented officer’s life
when the Oxfordshire Hussars, a huntin’,
shootin’, fishin’ yeomanry mob officered
with strictly the “county set,” were due
to embark on the Archimedes, a former
cattle-ship. All was going fairly smoothly
when suddenly the door of the E.S.O.’s
office was flung open and in strode a
Hussar captain, boiling over with rage
and stuttering as he shouted in a high-
pitched voice: “Do you expect me to
go in that old barge? Why, there is no
notepaper on board even!” “Yes,” the
E.S.O. admitted calmly, “that is so. Since
the outbreak of war Argentine bullocks
have been considerate enough to do with-
out it. May I, however, give you a tip?
They have also dispensed with toilet-
paper.” .
“MacH.”: Found guilty of the man-
slaughter of an aged Chinaman named
Jimmy Dee Long, who was struck on the
head with a heavy garden-hoe at a shack
near Narrogin, W.A., an 18-year-old
aborigine named Revel Cooper has been
sentenced at Perth to four years’ im-
prisonment, Chief Justice Sir John Dwyer
expressing the hope that the sentence will
be served at Pardelup or some similar
settlement where Cooper will “have some
chance of indulging in what your counsel
referred to as your artistic talent.” Cooper
was one of the star-performers among
the child-artists at Carrolup whose world-
famous paintings were discussed in Mary
Durack Miller’s Child Artists of, the
Australian Bush, lately reviewed on the
Red Page. The Crown said the China-
man must have got “an extremely severe
and direct blow on the head with the
hoe; Cooper’s defence was that he just
threw the hoe through the window and
didn’t know that Jimmy Dee Long was
jn the room; the Chief Justice thought
drink was the source of the trouble.
“On second thoughts I think I'll just have a polished floor."
“Swelpme”; You fellows who can’t
understand modern art (B. 3/12/’52)
should read your papers; the mysteries
of allegory and symbolism would then
become clear. This is how a
evening newspaper clarified an exhibition
of sculpture: “Any idea capable of per-
sonification can be modelled” “The
three Australian entries which will be sent
to dividual character and exceptional
merit. A great sense of rhythmic pattern
and design is England for the final judging
next March are of invisible in the work of
Mrs. Margel Hinder intended for execu-
tion in gunmetal and stainless steel on
a black reflecting base.” Now do you
understand?
❖ ❖
“Clevesby”: While other surf-club
members spun yarns of the wild foam
yonder, Jake trained on royal-routines and
bullets-on-the-roof. During a carnival
Jake hurriedly propelled his board
through a lazy surf around the buoys
and back into third position just too late
to see the cards being dealt. Finding his
hand rated queen high he growled “no
bet” and threw his cards in. A player
from a rival club opened his mouth so
wide it caused a draught. Jake pointed
a nicotine finger at the sunburnt face of
corruption. “Try that again,” Tie threat-
ened, “and I’ll win the next race.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Craiser”: A quaint controversy has
broken out in Melbourne over the ques-
“It'll be just a nest to begin with, dear.”
tion of propriety in painting, and the
controversy is made all the quainter by
the controversialists being son and father.
The pair, co-proprietors of the Park
Gallery in Collins-street, have different
views about the propriety of the nude in,
art which became public when a woman
exhibitor at the gallery had a nude re-
jected from a show of flower paintings.
The father had no objections to the
picture, but the son had. Asked for the
grounds for his objections, he said: “I
believe things should be as Christian as
possible. They should be as Christ would
want them —flowers and things as they
are, or you as you are.” Asked to explain
this cryptic statement he added: “I don’t
mean that the nude body is not as God
made it, but things should be depicted
according to accepted conventions,” This
is the first time, as far as I know, that
the Founder of Christianity, who stead-
fastly attacked the conventions of his age,
has been credited with putting the fig-
leaves on the statues.
*l* ♦♦♦ *l*
“Hugh Galleon”: Exhibitionist Yank
pilots (B. 12/11 / ’52) ? Watched one give
a rare display in a Piper Cub over 2/11
A.G.H. at Buna one Sunday afternoon in
1943, during which he frequently cut his
motor and glided to less than tent height
shouting, “Where are the nurses?” His —
and his companion’s—curiosity did not
long go unsatisfied. Wheels almost touch-
ing the road that ran through our lines,
he apparently decided to attempt a landing
and changed his mind. As he zoomed
steeply, the tiny aircraft stalled, toppled
over, and spun earthwards. Their plane
wrecked, the pilot and his buddy received
a severe ticking-off from both our C.O,
and their own commander. But maybe
they reckoned it was worth it —when they
came to they were in hospital-beds and
a nurse was hovering anxiously over each
of ’em.
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦♦♦
“B. M. Lever”: “Macnell” is right in
asserting (B. 10/12/’52) that heavy seas
have little effect on accurate naval
gunnery these gyro-stabilised days; but
I know one Bofors-man aboard cruiser
Hobart in the Pacific who was dubious as
to the efficiency of these modern aids.
On her quarter-deck Hobart had fitted
a four-barrelled Bofors, the mounting
kept mathematically level by gyros which,
offset by the ship’s roll, electrically
operated recentring motors. Spike was
waiting for Jap bombers off Tarakan,
with a fair lop running. The mounting
was still; only the ship rolled. Some say
seasickness is purely psychological. That
day Spike’s perfectly-steady stomach
proved the theory.
❖ ❖
“8.L.R.”: Brother-in-law Joe didn’t
own a car, and when he needed one to
give the girl-friend an outing he would
borrow mine without troubling to ask
permission. Removal of essential parts
was no bar to the borrowing, so at last I
took off the steering-wheel and thought
I had stumped him. Next morning when
a policeman friend asked if Joe had had
permission to use my car the previous
night I told him no. “Thought so,” said
the cop. “That explains why he was
steering it with a phir of bicycle-handles.”
*£♦
“Hist”; The quips and retorts of the
late Billy Hughes have been quoted
aplenty, but there was one attack directed
at him which he, a master of political
invective, is said to have listened to with
full appreciation. In the last hours of
the Bruce-Page Government —which Billy
was destroying—Gullett rose to address
the house. He said; “One would have
thought, Mr. Speaker, that a man with
the record of the Right Honorable
member for North Sydney would not
have descended to this sort of thing. One
would have thought that, in the evening
of his days, he would have gone down
like a sunset, grand and serene; or like
an old battleship, scarred with many
victorious fights, being towed to her last
moorings amidst the plaudits of countless
thousands; but, instead of that, Mr.
Speaker, the member for North Sydney
is like a mud-barge being towed down
the harbor, spewing filth and garbage
wherever he goes.” Well, in the end the
old battleship went to its last moorings
amid the plaudits of the people.
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.C.”: What’s become of the word
“wawb” (or was it warb?) which had
a vogue years ago? The lowest form
of the species was the “dirty, greasy
wawb,” the no-hoper who hung round
pubs and wine-saloons, nipping drinks.
The normal wawb was the type that
pratted into parties in a bar and did his
best to dodge his turn to shout. A chap
that had been having a run of outs and
had began to neglect his appearance was
described" as “wawby.” It was a useful
word and it will be a pity if it is lost
to the slanguage.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ann”; Although they come in for
much criticism, the N.S.W. Railways
render one service which, surprisingly
enough, is not charged for. A firm of
agents in trouble over lost records recently
applied to the department for particulars
of stock-movements which had taken
place almost three years previously.
Inside three weeks the information was
supplied in detail, and the agents were
surprised to find that no search fee was
required.
*> ❖ ❖
“Aestur”: These New Australian
railmen that “5 G.R.” saw working flat-
out (B, 26 /11 / ’52) aren’t unique. Near
here is a rabbit-warren building that
sprawls across half a dozen building-
blocks ; a quiet place, with few signs of
life despite its size. One day recently
it suddenly swarmed with men—crawling
over the roof, climbing ladders, gathering
in knots on the paths, poking their heads
from windows —for all the world like a
disturbed ants’-nest. The following day
the place was reduced to a skeleton, as
if the ant-men had picked it clean. A
couple of days, and it was whole again
—a minor miracle that might lift the
eyebrows of even a Henry Ford or a
Henry Kaiser. Nor were these workers
New Australians; they were Old Aus-
tralians with a very Old Australian
reason for their hard yakka. It’s not
long now to Christmas, and the bloke
who recently bought the place is no doubt
making it well worth their while to finish
his new hotel in plenty, of time for the
seasonal celebrations.
“H.A.L.”: “Dunk” is no Americanism
(B. 3/12/’52), but a good Scots word
meaning to wet or to immerse in liquid ;
the Yanks have merely adopted it. I
well remember warning a Scots lass,
whom I had taken out for a sail, that a
lot of spray would come aboard when
we met the cross seas off the tail of a
reef. She replied: “Ah’ve had a dunkin’
or twa in ma time and Ah willna mind
anither.” She duly got it —and took it
like a sport, I have no idea how Ban-
field’s beautiful island came by its name
but presume it honors someone sumamed
Dunk.
BROWBEATEN
“The cultivation of eyelashes and eyebrows
is of supreme importance. They are often tne
first things a man notices.” —Visiting beauty
specialist.
Your cheeks may be peaches and cream,
As smooth as the texture of satin;
Your twin orbs may be
As blue as the sea
Or alluringly, darkishly Latin.
And yet, despite these, it would seem
True beauty you’ll ever be thwarting
If you’ve lashes so sparse
They look rather a farce,
And unruly, thick hedges you’re sport-
ing.
If your fawn’s of the battleship kind,
Your nose somewhat out of propor-
tion ;
If you’re large in the ear,
Have a permanent sneer
Or a mouth that was built for con-
tortion,
Don’t worry at all, for you’ll find
Such defects are mere trifles —provided
You’ve lashes that curl
(For they suit every girl)
And eyebrows you’ve pruned, trained
and guided.
Personality may have its place —
On curves you may think that you’ll
flourish;
But eye-furnishings make
Or may mar. For your sake
Don’t forget these importants to
nourish.
So get to work now on that face
With goo and with pencil and tweezer.
And in no time at all
You’ll be belle of the ball,
A regular Romeo-pleaser.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The Enzed Navy gets a scion of a
distinguished British naval family in
Captain Sir Charles Madden, its new
Chief of Staff and First Naval Member.
Sir Charles is the son of an Admiral of
the Fleet who was Jellicoe’s chief of staff
in War I. The two admirals married
sisters.
Holder of the double-barrelled job of
Director of Technical Education in
N.S.W., and Director of the University of
Technology, Arthur Denning has handed
over the University barrel to Professor
John Phillip Baxter. An enthusiastic
barracker for the view that a State’s in-
dustrial power rests on the strength of
its technical experts, Denning has made
his goal the broadening of courses on
top technical levels, and the specialising
in post-graduate work. Earlier a physics-
lecturer at Sydney University, and later
in mathematics at the Technical College,
he shot up meteorieally to his present
post. His relief in the University director-
ship is already Dean of the Faculty of
Science therein, and Professor of Chemical
Engineering. Recently Baxter became
one of the trio forming the country’s first
Atomic Energy Commission.
Patrick Darcy Hills, Sydney’s new
Lud Mayor, is a serious-faced cove
of whipcord length and obvious
vigor, whose features can relax, as
Prior portrays, into a face-lightening
grin. The eyes of the new wearer of the
bunnyskinls—deep-set, and quick—indi-
NEW LUD MAYOR
cate the native intelligence of the man
who, born in Surry Hills, opened a tool-
making business opposite his birthplace,
was the representative of the Phillip State
Electoral Council at the annual A.L.P.
conference at 19, became chairman of
the Sydney County Council at 33, and,
at 34, Lord Mayor, the youngest in
Sydney’s history. Hills will be thrown
smack into the middle of the festive
season’s functions. On appearances, he’ll
handle that well enough. He will, as
well, on his own admission, throw himself
into the parking problem. A few thou-
sand motorists will be mighty interested
to see how he handles that!
“Fitz”: Heinemann of London have just
published in Melbourne Paul McGuire’s Inns
of Australia, which does for Australia what
was recently done for England by
Richardson’s Old Inns of England and
Thomas Burke’s The English Inn. McGuire’s
book is both an entertainment and a fascinat-
ing contribution to social history, peopled with
curious and celebrated characters and richly
illustrated. Geoffrey Ingleton drew Collit’s
Inn for the jacket, and is represented also with
etchings of two historic pubs. McGuire was
educated at the Christian Brothers’ College,
Adelaide, and the University of Adelaide, and
served with the R.A.N.V.R. in War 11. He
lives by his pen, and many know him only as a
social historian, literary critic and poet, unaware
that he is also a prolific author of crime
mystery novels, mainly set in Devon and Dorset
—stories with such engaging titles as Cry Aloud
for Murder and Born to Be Hanged, and far
removed, for instance, from his learned The
Poetry of Gerard Manley Hopkins. McGuire
first attracted notice with a small book of verse,
The Two Men and Other Poems, which was
published in 1932 and included some of his
Bulletin writings, but it was his comprehensive
and critical Australian Journey, published seven
years later, that lifted him into the ranks of
the more important Australian writers. His
wife, Frances Margaret McGuire, collaborated
with him in the writing of The Price of Admiralty
and The Australian Theatre. Mrs. McGuire,
who is also an Adelaide University graduate,
is a biochemist interested in insulin research,
and has published several books under her own
name, including The Royal Australian Navy
and Tales of St. Ima^inus.
Police changes in the Speck put
Malcolm Dowling out to well-earned
grass and William Delderfield into the
Commissionership. A Queen’s College,
Hobart, product, Dowling has had 42
of his 64 years in the force, and passed
through every grade up to commissioner.
The new man, with three years in as
Dowling’s deputy, is a Londoner who
joined the South Australian police in
1922. Studying literature —not whodunits
—forms his relaxation.
The Reverend W. L. Collins, 8.A., is
the new Moderator of the General
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in
S. Australia. Which, probably, means
nothing to Tobruk Rodents of the 2/12
Field Regiment. But reduce the august
title to “P.K.” Collins, and the name will
evoke memories of the übiquitous padre
in the perimeter who issued, apparently
from an inexhaustible supply, the chew-
ing-gum to his besieged flock. A chaplain
since 1927, “P.K.” served in pre-War-II
days with several artillery units (where
he was known for his horsemanship), and
came out of Tobruk to be appointed
senior Scotchbyterian chaplain in the
Middle East. Back in Australia he be-
came assistant Chaplain-General to the
First Australian Army, and won a
“mention” for his work in New Guinea.
Having filled the chair of Dental
Science at the Westralian University since
it was established in 1946, Professor
Horace Gray Radden is off to take over
the Turner Dental School at the Uni. of
Manchester. Born at Claremont (W.A.),
educated in the West till he went east to
qualify for the Melbourne D.D.Sc., he
has practised in Melbourne, was senior
lecturer in the Dental College of Mel-
bourne Uni., and annexed the English
R.C.S. before he embarked on a notable
career of dental-research. One important
line of inquiry concerned the possibility
of exposed dental pulps providing an
entry for the polio virus. He’s not long
back from a trip to Britain and Scandi-
navia, during which he had a look over
some score of dental schools,
“Melbn”: Gone, at 92, to sample the
nectar in the Elysian fields, Johnny
Connell, a link with the spacious days
when Melbourne had cable-trams,
hansom-cabs, tophats, side-whiskers, free
counter-lunches and pots at threepence.
Johnny’s era lies so long in the past that
nobody knows the name of his first pub,
but he started his career as an apprentice
to his uncles, Young and Jackson, just
opposite St. Paul’s Cathedral. Modern
diocesan authorities have frequently asked
that the hotel, where the nude figure of
Chloe is still a point of interest, be re-
moved as a blot on its escutcheon. But
earlier authorities once allowed its porch
to be a sanctuary for the barrels from
Y. and J.’s cellars —one Saturday night in
1897, when the hotel caught fire, on the
condition that the barrels were rolled
back before the Sunday morning’s service.
It was at the Railway Hotel in Elizabeth-
street that Johnny first introduced the
counter-lunch to Melbourne, providing
hot joints, and sometimes squabs, free
for every threepenny pot lowered. He
was a picturesque innkeeper, bought
antique furniture and paintings, and for
his services to art as well as counter-
lunchers was made a trustee of the
National Gallery from 1922 to 1945.
There a gallery, named after him, houses
the magnificent glass, china, furniture,
rugs, silver and pictures he collected.
Back at the beginning of the century,
when the Commonwealth Bank first
opened its coffers, a dozen men staffed
the Perth branch. One of them, Norman
Knight, went on to become boss of that
branch, later of Hobart’s, assistant-
manager in Sydney head office, then man-
ager in Brisbane. Now Chief State
Officer for Queensland, Knight, at 65,
is closing his grille. He’s the last of that
Perth dozen to go.
Recent Naval awards for Korean
service include C.B.E. for Captain
Kenneth Stewart Colquhoun, whom some
of the thousands who boarded carrier
Glory in Sydney last year may remember
as the lengthy, large-nosed captain watch-
ing the invasion with an apprehension
Mao’s minions could never engender.
Commander Alan Swanton, Firefly
squadron-leader, also of Glory, gets
D.S.O. Swanton helped torpedo the Bis-
marck, and, later, bombed Tirpitz with
a Barracuda squadron. He also once
had his aircraft cut neatly in two when,
taking-off with a full bomb-load, she
crashed directly ahead of the ship’s bows.
Lieut.-Commander John Bailey, leader of
Glory’s Fury fighter-group, now D.S.C.,
has made more carrier deck-landings than
any other man in any Navy. When
Glory was last in Sydney, he had notched
over 2000. With British carriers in Korea
averaging 83 sorties a day, Bailey’s tally
now is anybody’s guess.
“F.S.”: Louis McCubbin (B.
10/12/’52) was offered the freedom of
the city when he was at Cairns painting
pictures of the Barrier Reef for the
National Travel Association. When the
mayor had finished his speech he
said: “And could you tell us, Mr.
McCubbin, how the row is going between
Mr. Meldrum and his critics?” “How on
earth did you hear about that up here?”
asked McCubbin, surprised at so much
interest in art being manifested in North
Queensland. “Oh,” replied the mayor,
“we read The Bulletin. We don’t know
what the hell they’re all talking about
but we love a good fight.”
A shuffling of high university posts
sends Dr. George Currie, Vice-Chancellor
of the Westralian University, to the Vice-
Chancellorship of the University of New
Zealand. Into his shoes in Westralia steps
Stanley Lewis Prescott, Master of
Ormond College at the University of
Melbourne. Born in Gloucester in 1910,
Prescott was Wild Prizeman in Pharma-
cology at the Manchester University, and
in 1936 went as Professor of Physiology
to Cheeloo University, Tsinan Province,
China. He had equipped himself so well
linguistically that he performed a feat
that would impress any sinologue—he
delivered his lectures in Chinese, In 1941
in the R.A.A.F., squadron-leader ; in 1943
he was appointed C.O. of the Personnel
Research Unit.
N.S.W. Rugby Union’s new secretary,
J. H. O’Neill, is an old Newingtonian who
played Union with the Briars and Western
Suburbs clubs, and was later a leading
referee. He had charge of the Fiji-United
Services game, played a couple of months
back. His predecessor, Dugald Mc-
Gregor, has gone to Concord Golf Club
as secretary.
Victorian Sam Hulme is following his
pattern. He made his way through
Wesley College on scholarships and
through Melbourne University in the
same way; now a Rhodes scholarship
wafts him to Oxford. A resident master
at Wesley College, and an articled-clerk
in a firm of solicitors, he recently
graduated Bachelor of Laws. At the
English university he’ll go for his
Bachelorship of Civil Law.
V. W. Officer, who secretaries for the
Graziers’ Association of Victoria in a
room at the top of a Collins-street build-
ing, has sheep in the blood. His great-
grandfather was Hobart’s first health-
officer, when the Government, in the
spacious way they had in those days,
gave him a vast grant of land which laid
the basis of the family’s fortunes. At
one time it included half-a-dozen stations
on the island and mainland. Uncles,
cousins and aunts are still in the pastoral
industry, and cousin Sir Keith, doyen of
Australia’s diplomatic gentry, is building
up a property in Tassie. Except for an
interim of war-campaigning in New
GRAZIERS’ SEC.
Guinea, V.W. has always been in wool,
on the executive side as well as the grow-
ing, and there’s not much he doesn’t
know about it. He slipped once, though.
His children asked their old man to shear
their pet lambs, which he did with a pair
of scissors. On the day when the price
of wool reached a record and then
dropped, he was at a wool-sale; and
suddenly remembered the fleece he had
forgotten in his office. He went home
to the gaze of two reproachful nippers.
John Heyer, viewed by Hawley not
long after the film-man, complete with
tan, had returned from the Birdsville
Track, has been mixed up with film-pro-
duction since, as a lad, he started with
F. T. Hiring in Melbourne. Then he
was a sound-engineer ; with Chauvel and
his 40,000 horsemen, assistant-camera-
man; with Zane Grey for a year on the
Reef, just about everything; and, with
Harry Watt, scriptwriter for Watt’s story
of “The Overlanders.” To fill in the
reel, he has directed a dozen or so well-
known documentaries, among them a
BIRDSVILLE TRACKER
first-class presentation of life in the
Murray Valley, which was chosen by
Unesco as one of the 12 best films
for 1950. For three years after War II
producer for the National Film Board,
Heyer is now boss of the Shell Film Unit
(which did the Birdsville Track picture,
to be released early next year), and be-
longs executively to just about every
association concerned with films in
N.S.W. In addition he’s the only Aus-
tralian member of the British Film
Academy. Shell sent him on a year’s
tour overseas recently. On that cinematic
jaunt he recorded his best-remembered
sequence—the time when, with Robert
Flaherty (producer of “Nanook,” “The
Elephant Boy” and other well-knowns),
he opened the film-section of the Edin-
burgh Festival. Thirty-six, quietly com-
petent, he was born in Devonport, Tas-
mania,
“5 G.R.”: The death of Captain Frank
Tubb at Longwood (Vic.) reduces to a
few that soldierly band the little township
in the Kelly country on the Flume High-
way produced. Tubb, who had served
with Colonel Tom Price in South Africa,
won his M.C. when brother Fred won his
VC. at Lone Pine. Longwood produced
two other V.C.-winners —Leslie Maygar,
who won his in the Boer War and was
killed in Palestine; and Alex. Burton,
who won his and went out at Lone Pine.
Frank Tubb’s widow will carry on with
their little petrol-station.
Into the Silence:
At 67, in Melbourne, Edward James Cadell
Rennie, who held the first Master of Engineer-
ing degree awarded from Adelaide University.
With Melbourne University since 1915, starting
as demonstrator in the Engineering School, he
was, by 1930, senior lecturer in mechanical-
engineering and aerodynamics. Four years ago
he received the assistant-Professorship of
Mechanical Engineering.
In Sydney, at 83, Lt.-Colonel George Wall.
A catholic soldiering experience took m the
Nile expedition of 1898, the Boer War and
World War I.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 90, J. W. Treadaway,
last surviving member but one of H.M.S.
Calliope’s company. Treadaway sailed in
Calliope on her maiden voyage to Auckland in
1887, but, fortunately for him, was absent on
leave when the hurricane hit.
In Perth, at 47, Captain Alex Sinclair, master
of the Westralian State vessel Kabbarli. Sur-
vivor of two brothers, sea-captains both, he had
spent 30 years at sea, 17 of them in the State
shipping service.
In Melbourne, after the election, Trevor
Harvey, Labor Minister in the McDonald
Government. He was elected to the Legislative
Council in 1943, member for Gippsland
Province, where he had one of the leading
Jersey stud-farms in Victoria.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 74, William Edwaid
Parry, one-time Labor Cabinet Minister, and
representative of Auckland electorates for 3/
years. Hailing from Orange (N.S.W.), he landed
in New Zealand over 50 years ago, to become
president of the Waihi Miners’ Union, whicn
he led through the big strike of 1913. When
he retired last year he was Father of the House.
In Adelaide, at 61, A. S. Dunk, for the past
17 years secretary of the L.C.L. in S. Australia.
He served with the 3rd Light Horse in Palestine,
and, before turning to politicSj engaged in the
Murray River shipping-trade, and was harbor-
master at Morgan and district-clerk and engineer
with the Morgan Council.
In Nambour (Q.), at 81, William Whalley,
who walked into Nambour as a travelling tinker
and stayed to become proprietor of his own
sizeable business, chairman of directors of the
Moreton Central Sugar Mill Co., and to lend
a helping hand to just about every public
institution in the town.


The Song of
the Cicadas
(for"the Bulletin")
Siora <22M»»<b ~tt> wa
From a, seu-udl brefc® »
I listl<z-^dly
doing , nofl»mg .
LlgWl wwwfis And sKartrtg
Wlih iha And txw.,
V/lxila lK<z. Sapbrr^ —top* a-gl istco-i
and 'h'amlolczd, wild And willing
6ucV> »> £\dd<z.n, aylviui dirißjng
X Could rx>t cKoose t>iit listen.
Gr«-ara clcadAS , tlzwcTt ClCAdas.,
oi-ftie grA£.iOViS w<aalk«yt-.
Floury - kdcai' > doutla.-dnjn i 5 , wia» > ,
All A 3 ona And. aJI 'togfet&*<zJr
Hov# ihcty voic.ad #xct Sianyrr*®^.*
kadk. lK<zjra eaom<r'to me
As I loitanzcl lisH<z~2>sl>/
N <zjzAi -fiattkl And gfraxKa/uI troz.,
Ndfcnrjg doing y naHungf <^sSki~uo«:
noraeTits Spant in Sna^ng"
Wilh iKo. and kaa
"Youik An<i^««.«>r», waanii a«el gjiamour,
WlaiLz. Cac.yod.A.3 round. m« sWrilling,
3ad Ihc. nooniida fririlliyag
Willi ik<z.ir k<Maa,in*ia.t«r»± damans**.
Gr®en cicadas . WLack. cicada^S,
Hjtxp|oy in duz. -w<zAlK<2.r-
Floury'- t2ds.tz.l-ss , douUWdi'ummars
All Acs ona And aU —■
How voiced iKa tygon«, Summers I
N.SW
Rodaric Quinn.
[From THE BULLETIN of February 28, 1924. Reproduced at the insistent request of the cicadas.]


ABORIGINALITIES
‘The Boorie”; Rosie, our housegirl,
recently received a filial visit from her
son. He “footwalked” direct overland
from the Daly River to Darwin (90-odd
miles as the plane flies), through creeks,
bush and jungle, living off the land, as
“more quicker” than chancing a lift the
longer way round by road. Arrived,
and suitably refreshed with beef and tea,
he agreed to start work on the morrow
cleaning up the weeds in the yard. There
followed a business proposition: “You
borrer me two-bob now, boss, eh?” “No
more! You bin work first.” However,
he got it as an advance, and left with
an assurance of his return, as arranged.
Within a few hours he was back, and,
dragging from his pocket a fistful of
small change, carefully counted into my
hand two-bob in silver and pence, adding
an extra twopence. “Keep the change,”
he said magnificently, “Where you get
all that?” I asked. “Me bin broke.
Look about some other feller, play ’em
cards. Bagot” (compound) “fellers bin
paid yes’day.” I am seriously consider-
ing a parnership for this budding tycoon
—as my junior, of course. He is not
quite 11 years old.
* * * ♦
“Macquarie”: With no irreverence
intended, I don’t think the writer of
“Lead Kindly Light” ever followed a
scarcely-used track along a mountainside
on a dark night. If he had, the line
“One step enough for me” would have
been rejected as not conveying the
meaning intended. In my experience the
next step is the one you can never see,
although the track may be dimly visible
about three paces ahead. I recall the
time I got bushed in the wild rugged
gullies west of Mittagong (N.S.W.). Dusk
was just turning to night when I found a
narrow pad skirting the mountain near
its base. The general direction was right,
but the track was far from being well-
defined, and the sound of running water
somewhere below gave me an uneasy
premonition that I was going to finish
up in the creek. Although I could make
out a narrow whitish strip which kept
the same distance ahead all the time, and
it was merely logic that I must be scan-
ning the whole of the track, the uncanny
feeling persisted that I would step into
space. Not until the full moon made its
belated appearance was I able to conquer
the ridiculous thought—and that was
when I did step into space, and finished
up rolling through bracken and low scrub
to launch myself in icy water,
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: When they invited us
to play with the South Tallabung XI
against the Bangerang team Mat was
about to decline the honor until some-
body mentioned that there’d be a couple
of kegs on the ground. The match
started at 11 a.m., the day was a scorcher,
and when the last Bangerang wicket fell
at 12.48 p.m, with the score at 134, all
hands made for the bough shed which
sheltered the doings. The Bangerang
ladies had provided a spread, so that
when we resumed at 1.45 our batsmen
went in either drowsy or elevated, and all
that saved our side from disaster was
that the Bangerang bowlers and fielders
were in the same condition —so were the
umpires. We were supposed to adjourn
at 3,30 for —er —refreshments, but at 3.23,
when we’d lost seven for 118, word was
received that Andy Chip, who’d left in
a utility-truck for Bimbi to pick up an-
other keg, had broken a back-axle and
was stranded five miles away at the
Quandialla turn-off. Everybody was
staring blankly at everybody else, until
Mat rushed out to the pitch and began
rolling the mat, roaring, “Come on!
Come on! Get the gear up and inter
some o’ these cars an’ trucks. If we
can’t have beer at the cricket we’ll have
the flamin’ cricket at the beer.” Twenty
minutes later the mat was down within
200 yards of Chip’s breakdown and, after
a pause for tonsil tonic, the game went
on. Bangerang 134, South Tallabung
129 and one disputed leg-bye.
* * * *
“Hortus”: The old girl who over a
long period has justly acquired a reputa-
tion as a bush-lawyer had a small road-
side farm, and one night one of her
cows calved. Peculiarly, on the same
night her neighbor’s cow also calved.
She stole the calf and claimed that
her cow had had twin calves. There
was a court case over it, and she bet the
cop £5 that when she came back from
the case both calves would be in her
possession. The cop took the bet, know-
ing that she didn’t have a legal leg to
stand on. She lost the case and had to
pay 30s. Outside the court-house she
met the neighbor and offered to take
the calf off his hands for 30s. A deal
was made. She returned home owning
the two calves, collected the fiver from
the sergeant and so made £2 on the
transaction.
* * * *
“L.K.A.”: Doing the 120-odd miles
across the desolate, uninhabited sandplain
between Esperance, on Westralia’s south
coast, and Ravensthorpe, we passed a
tree, to which was nailed a brass sign
"And shall I be able to dine at the captain's table ?”
that had obviously been purloined. It
bore the legend “Sitting Room.”
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Cobb and Co. relics (B.
26/11/’52)? As a schoolboy at the close
of the ’seventies my father travelled be-
tween his home in Victoria’s Western
District and Geelong, where he was a
boarder at the Grammar School. The
coach-horses were changed at the Mort-
lake Inn, where the passengers lunched.
Dad and his fellow-students always en-
joyed a pint of ale with their meal, and
“How long you in for , mate?”
when the old inn lost its licence about 30
years ago the then licensee, a daughter
of the landlord of Dad’s day, sent a
pewter-pot to each of the schoolboys she
remembered from those long-past years.
Dad’s is still among our family relics.
» ♦ # #
“Sackfair”; The cry of a wounded
koala does things to chicken-hearted
blokes like me, and the squeal of a
shot hare as it tries to fight off attacking
dogs is not a pleasant sound; but I’d
rather hear either than the piercing lament
of an injured frog. You can do some-
thing about the first two, but a frog—
well, I’ve never forgotten the green fellow
I tried to put out of its misery when I
was a kid. He was in the creek, squark-
ing pitifully and making a poor job of
his efforts to swim. It wasn’t until a
convulsive heave jerked his body out of
the water that I saw the cause of his
distress —a thin eel attached to a hind-leg.
For nearly an hour the struggle went on.
While I debated my swimming ability
and the depth of water. The problem
solved itself when the battle area shifted
closer inshore. My first grab caught
the frog,' my second the eel —momen-
tarily ; when he realised that he was out
of his element the wriggler had one last
chew, then slipped through my fingers.
Left holding a frog with most of the
flesh gnawed off its hind-legs, I decided
a humane action was the only thing to
do. The memory of that murder came
back to me last Sunday when, while
digging around fruit-trees with a pronged
hoe, I accidentally impaled a big green
bloke through the top of a hind-leg. His
screechings as I pulled him quivering
off the prong gave me the shudders. To
leave a badly-injured creature in agony
is contrary to all my instincts and early
training, but —well, how can you kill a
frog without making it a prolonged, noisy
act of butchery?
* * ♦ ♦
“P.0.M.C.”: Correctly, a jinker (B.
3/12/’52) is a long-shafted, two-wheeled
vehicle resembling a heavily-built sulky
minus the padded seat, nickel-plating and
other vanities. It was designed originally
for breaking horses to harness, the dis-
tance between tail and dash providing
ample room for flying heels.
♦ * * *
“C. Towers”: Pardon me, “Bo,” but a
cat does express pleasure by tail-move-
ment (B. 26/11/’52). A confirmed felo-
phile—if that be the word —and a close
observer of the sleek black gentleman
who graciously deigns to live with me, I
have often seen him, full of milk and
fish, curl up on his private cushion, the
extreme tip of his tail flicking from side
to side as he settles down. It is impos-
sible to imagine that, in the situation I
have described, he could be anything but
happy—especially as he has just suc-
ceeded in conveying to me that I should
get off his cushion. Further, there can
be no Freudian significance in the tail-
twitching—he’s not that kind of cat.
* * * ♦
“Prad”: “B.A.K.’s” grisly campfire
talk which led to a disturbed night (B.
19/11//52) had a parallel at St. Mary’s
Pool, on the Blanchewater Creek, S.A.
Our mustering camp had whiled away
the leisure-time in the usual way. Young
Mick had won the hop, skip and jump
again easily. Sandy, as usual, had tossed
the caber (a coolibah post) and hurled
the discus (a 101 b. gibber) furthest. Dusk
settled. The overseer and pannikin-boss
played a couple of rounds of draughts,
using dried-apricots and dried-peaches as
draughtsmen, while the rest of us prac-
tised blotting and switching brands in
the fine sand by firelight. Time to turn
in, and the last desultory talk was of an
old hatter and kangaroo-stalker who’d
half-threatened to fire a shot at anyone
inconsiderate enough to camp where we
were camping. In the small hours came
a sharp report. Scared uncomprehending
heads poked out from under groundsheets
and were pulled in smartly as another two
bangs shattered the night and scattered
the glowing coals of our gidgee night-
log. “Hell! ” yelled the overseer. “Head
for the scrub —the old blankard’s shoot-
ing at the fire,” He needn’t have bothered.
The rest of us, with one exception, were
100yds. away before he’d opened his
mouth. The one who stayed, the
wretched horsetailer, was incapable of
moving—paralysed not with fear but
mirth as he recollected the handful of
damp cartridges he’d left lined up along
the night-log to dry out.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Bobbie Jay”: The boss and all hands
on our Centralian property had been
working steadily digging out the soak, but
one morning Big Foot Harry didn’t turn
up for work. Searchers were sent out
but returned with the inevitable answer
“Somewhere, boss.” At dusk Big Foot
was discovered asleep in the creek-bed
some miles away, hunting weapons and
game beside him. An irate boss asked
why Big Foot had not come to work.
“Proper sick, boss,” said Big Foot.
“Well,” barked the trump, “why didn’t
you go up on sick-call early this morn-
ing?” “By cripe, would’ve, boss,” replied
the abo., “but me bin proper paralysed
just then.”
WILD TURNIPS
The railway flats have but little merit,
Grimed and ungracious, scarred and sere;
You will start no lark, you will sense no spirit
Either of good or evil there.
Tins and old tyres repeat the story
Of earth made desecrate, marred by man,
With the burning bush that was once its glory
Back in the gullies where it began
With the rest of the wattles. But I have lifted
Eyes to a scene quite otherwise —
As though a marigold cloud had drifted
There for a rest, and forgotten to rise;
With the baked clay, sterile and cracked asunder,
The sour grasses and brittle reeds
And all the rest of it hidden under
A merciful mist of careless weeds.
Yellow wild turnip, world without end,
The flood ran in and the flood ran out,
Lapping the roadway, leaping the bend;
And even a lark somewhere about.
Unloved acres, all strewn with rotten
Garbage and junk and ironware,
By man polluted, by time forgotten,
Heaven remembers you—once a year.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“The Bunyip”; He knocks off half an
hour later than I do, so I’m out in the
garden by the time he goes past. I
might be tying up tomatoes or digging a
spud, feeding the chooks or watering
lettuce, but he never sees me because,
from the time he shows up at one end
of the street till he’s hull-down at the
other, his nose is hidden in the evening
paper and the only variation in his reluct-
ant shuffle is when he trips over a stone.
It is not the news alone that retards
him, for waiting at the end of the walk
are three female bosses —one he married
and the others he sired —and he leaves
the remains of his soul outside when he
kicks the front-gate open. The dog is
glad to see him —they have grievances in
common—and when the chance arises
the two of them are quite content poking
around among the junk in the shed;
but he’s never home long before he’s
wearing an apron, or wielding a broom,
or with a hard, stubborn brush stabbing
stale paint on to some bench or cupboard
or something. Met his missus the other
day. “Your garden’s looking nice,” she
said. “I have an awful job making Joe
do ours.” The poor cow! To me,
the garden is the sanctuary where all the
irritations of the daily round are unable
to follow, but I know that to some blokes
grovelling in the ground would torture
them as a symphony session on the radio
does me. Joe is like that; he has never
learnt the feel of soil —and they make
him do it. The poor cow!
* * * *
“Old-timer”; At Danyo Bore they’d
got up a mixed programme of horse-
racing, foot-running, sheaf-tossing and so
forth, and everything was set for a good
day. Curyo Charlie was early on the
scene and set up his sweat-wheel. The
Trial Stakes had been run and the runners
were on the mark for the Sheffield when
through the scrub came the mounted
trooper from Murrayville. He slid off his
horse and strode towards Curyo. “Close
that thing up,” he ordered. Curyo took
down the wheel and began to fold up
the table. The crowd gathered and mur-
mured. The trooper, young and stern,
stood grimly by. “We didn’t expect you,”
somebody said. The Law didn’t answer.
“Can’t we have our sports without you?”
somebody else demanded. Old Mac,
chief organiser of the affair, spoke civilly.
“Did Sergeant Waters send you out?”
“No, he’s been relieved.” “Oh, you got
a new sergeant?” “For the time being.”
“How long?” “Sergeant Waters’ll be
back Wednesday.” Old Mac withdrew
and consulted with the committee. Then
he mounted a tomato-sauce box and
announced, “The committee has decided,
owing to unexpected circumstances, to
postpone the spores till next Saturday.”
As the crowd broke up the trooper asked
Mac, “Why 4o that?” “You’re new,”
Mac said. “If Curyo ain’t allowed to
run his game here he’ll go up in the scrub
an’ run it an’ there’ll be nobody at the
sports.” The trooper took a long look
around. “Oh, well,” he said, “think I’ll
ride into Cowangie and get the stock
statistics or something.”
£ * * *
“Morris the Tinker”: The remark of
the street violinist to the group of dogs
in that cartoon (B. 12/11/’52), “Nothing
deeper than a baritone, I’d say,” would
have seemed quite natural to an English
huntsman of the Tudor or Stuart periods.
It was the custom till well into the 18th
century for hound packs to be chosen
so that their voices matched like a chime
of bells. Theseus, in Shakspeare’s “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,” tells his bride,
Hippolyta, that his hounds are “matched
in mouth like bells. Each under each.”
The Elizabethan writer Markham ad-
vised the aspiring master of a pack in his
Country Contentments:
If you would have your kennell for
sweetness of cry, then you must compound
it of some large dogges, that have deep
solemne mouths, and are swift in spend-
ing, which must, as it were, bear the base
in the consort, then a double number of
roaring and loud ringing mouthes, which
must bear the counter-tenour, then some
hollow, plaine, sweete mouthes, which must
have the meane or middle part; and so
“Best mate I ever had.”
with these three parts of musicke you shall
make your cry perfect.
Addison and Steele’s famous character.
Sir Roger de Coverley, returned a present
of a hound by a servant “with a great
many expressions of civility, but desired
him to tell his Master that the dog he
had sent was indeed a most excellent bass,
but that at present he only wanted a
counter-tenor.”
* * * ♦
“W.M.H.”: When a whale is washed
ashore in the British Isles no legal
wrangling is necessary to decide owner-
ship, as was the case in H. A. Lindsay’s
story (B. 12/11/’52). An ancient British
law decrees that any whale caught within
territorial waters belongs to the Crown
or its grantee, and is divisible in the
following manner. The head is the pro-
perty of the King, the tail belongs to the
Queen and the body goes to the finder.
It remains a nice legal point whether,
in the absence of a male sovereign, our
present Queen would be entitled to claim
both ends.
* * * *
“Rooster”: The importance of immo-
bility to many bush creatures of diurnal
habits is greater than “Chuck” would
have us believe (B. 3/12/’52). Defence-
less creatures often owe their safety to
the trick of playing “possum.” Frogs
and small lizards would soon become
extinct were it not for their uncanny
knack of blending into the landscape and
remaining perfectly still, for most beasts
and birds of prey prefer living victims
and are averse to carrion. A spider,
when disturbed, rolls on its back, draws
up its legs and looks quite dead. It will
allow itself to be pushed and poked and
still give no sign of life. Man, of course,
usually arrives on the scene as an inter-
loper, often curious to the extent of
killing a creature in order to ascertain
how it will react in the face of certain
death. That small lizard of “Chuck s
could have scarped for its life through the
undergrowth. A bird of prey could have
pounced on it in the act, too.
* * * *
“Downsman”: The heat-waves rippled
skywards from,the sun-scorched paddock.
Under the only shade, that of a small,
ragged gum-tree, stood an old bullock
and an even older horse. Around them
swarmed the flies—the militant variety.
Sheer necessity had forced the two loafers
to agree on the usual form of head-to-tail
anti-fly alliance used by horses. The
bullock, however, was malingering, and
the steady swish of the horse’s tail was
reciprocated only at lengthy intervals.
At last becoming aware of this exploita-
tion the horse sullenly nipped the bul-
lock’s flank. The immediate response
was an energetic swish which routed the
flies in gratifying fashion. The horse
followed up his success with another nip,
and then the two settled into a steady
routine. As the bullock’s tail-flicking
languished, incentive was given by
Dobbin’s teeth. What chance could mere
flies have against such an example of
bilateral co-operation?
* * * *
“Giris”: Not only “primitive” natives
prize the tropical palm-leaf (B. 26 /11 / ’52).
Three official residences at R.A.A.F. Air
Station, Manus Island, have leaves for
roofing-material. Native lingo calls it
“saksak.” Shortage of recognised roofing
is not the cause. Saksak is cool, com-
fortable, durable, weatherproof, easy to
get and cheap. Talk has it the new
Naval chapel at Manus is due for some.
Civilised white fella master, he savvy
plenty strong long “primitive” use of
palm-leaf.
* * * *
“Bovine Billy”: Often, in heavy
weather, steamers in Whitsunday
Passage (Q.) navigate by sirens.
They cut the tooters off with a
snap, catching the echo on the
rebound, and thus gauge how
far they, are off the land. Living
on an island in the Passage, I
was bringing my little herd of
Jerseys to the yard for afternoon
milking when a ship, feeling its
way through a heavy rainfall,
called for an echo. The bull with
my cows was only a youngster ;
he hadn’t yet learned the etiquette
of the islands, having but recently
come from the mainland. But as
soon as that bellowing siren hit
the air Billy knew what it meant:
it was a challenge from another
bull hidden in the scrub. That
youngster had breeding ; he threw
up his head, bellowed a reply,
lowered his nostrils, pawed the
earth and bellowed his challenge
again. Possibly the double echo
they got back confused the mariners. But
Billy spent the night chasing that strange
bull over the hills until he had hunted
it out to sea.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“J.E.8.”: Certainly no threat of jail
sentence will stop native Papuans from
gambling (B, 26 /11 / ’52). At Moresby
two police-boys were drafted to Samarai
for duty. With full equipment they
boarded the coastal vessel Papuan Chief.
During the trip they played King-in
King-out (card game) with the native
crew, and arrived at Samarai simply clad
in G-string and cartridge-belt, plus rifle
—everything else had been gaffed away.
So for a month the prison road-gang had
two more members, and two paybooks
received a heavy debit. This quickened
the determination of the white W.O. to
slap down on native gamblers generally.
He warned the late Sergent Gaiberi to
stand by for raiding duty. At the
appointed time Sgt. Gaiberi was missing,
so the W.O. set off with the raiding party
and gave the “boys’ ” huts the works.
“ What about a firebreak around the mouth, sir?”
Total catch was 120 manipulators of the
broads ; among them—he was running the
school—was Sgt. Gaiberi. They all
copped a month in the peter, the sarge
getting the job of overseering the inflated
road-gang. Unlike the rest, however,
Sgt. Gaiberi didn’t wear prison garb, but
full uniform, chevrons and all. For Sgt.
Gaiberi was a life-sergeant, made so in
reward for saving Lieut.-Govemor Mac-
gregor from drowning while crossing
the mouth of the Fly River. He also was
granted authority to wear the Digger
hat; the only Papuan police-boy per-
mitted to do so.
“Mingari”: The boss had sent a few
of the boys along the telephone-line to
town, to clear away any trees or scrub
growing too near the wires. On the out-
skirts of the midget metropolis, and close
to the boundary of a small banana-plan-
tation, they encountered and vigorously
attacked a clump of scrub that looked
as though it might be a nuisance in a
year or so. The day was hot, the flies
were bad, the language shocking—until
a female was observed approaching
through the banana-palms and the word
went round “Go easy on the language
there’s a woman coming.” At close
quarters she proved to be elderly, grey-
ing, dignified yet kindly—rather like the
mother every one of us had left in the
long ago. Would we mind, she asked
politely, piling the branches against her
fence as we cut them? They might help
to keep at bay the camels which came
by night and, shoving their long necks
across the wire, devoured every green
thing they could reach. Would we mind.
Perish the idea! Nothing could be a
trouble for such a lady. Standing back
to admire our handiwork, Jerry asked
politely, “I suppose you find camels
a bit of a nuisance, ma’am?” For
brevity, clarity of meaning and vigor her
reply could not have been bettered. A
nuisance? They’re proper b ——s! ’
And she turned towards the house, leav-
ing a very stunned party of station-hands
gaping at her retreating back.
♦ * ♦
“Teraki”: Perhaps it is that I have one
of those kind gentle faces; anyway, if
there’s a drunk in the bar, bursting with
beer and bonhomie and yearning for
somebody to talk to, he’ll pick me out
of hundreds. Time and again I’ve swayed
back from the fumes wafting oyer me
from a rubicund, sweaty and whiskered
map, struggling vainly to release my hand
from the clammy grasp of my Bacchic
long-lost brother, and assuring him that
I reciprocate his deep and abiding affec-
tion. Claimed the other day in a country
pub by one of the tribe, I thought I’d try
a new stunt —overawe him, thought I,
and he’ll go away. So I introduced my
drinking companion. “This,” I said, “is
Mr. (mentioning a famous pastoral
family of which he certainly isn’t a
member). Gravely the drunk acknow-
ledged the knockdown. Then I played
my ace. “And my name is ” (an-
other name equally famous in the world
of sheep, with which I have no connec-
tion). Did it freeze him off? The
beery eye gleamed like a star, the sodden
features were garlanded with smiles; the
same old sweaty paw grasped mine with
an enthusiasm I’ve never known before,
pumping madly. “Gawdblessyermeboy,”
came floating toward me on a fine spray
of beer. “Gawdblessyer! I’m proud to
shake yer ’and. I useter work for y’r
grandfather!” Curse the patriarchial
system. I wish my mythical granddad
had been the greatest old cow that ever
sacked a station-hand. Anybody know
another method?
THE FALLOW FIELD
The fallow field has grown weeds,
Natal-grass, thistle and cobbler s-pegs,
And along the headlands there are dregs
Of spindly lucerne from lost seeds.
The birds sit on the fence like beads
On a children’s counting-board,
And the thistledown has soared
Like small white moths above the weeds.
Let us plough this fallow ground,
Break the hardness with giant blades,
Let the cultivator’s spades
Churn the red earth up and round
With a water-flowing sound.
Make the furrows straight and long
Harrow through and through the strong
Broken clumps of heaving ground.
Strip the fallow field quite bare
Sending field-mice scurrying
And small lizards hurrying.
See! The grey flight of a hare!
Now the soil, red in the glare,
Lies blood-raw beneath the sun.
Cut straight furrows one by one
Soon to take the seed and bear.
QUEENSLAND,
JEAN J. LAIDLAW.


what shall I give?
£
S'
The right answer to every gift problem
ySAa
APO RT E T T€
DID YOU KNOW THAT
iSe&u&em
o# RBCOfiD
On SEPTEMBER 2nd, 1920 AT TORPHIN (SCOTLAND),
THE FIRST FIVE HOLES IN
1.2,3,4 AND 5 RESPECTIVELY. IN JULY. 1934, RONALD
johes AT Addington palaceJurrey (em?; reversed the
PROCESS, HOLING THE LAST FIVE HOLES IN 5.4.3.2 AND 1.
■i'tul
fS
, J- Brown —playi no
FOR'.ST GIORCE(SYDN£Y)
AUSTRALIAN RULES TEAM \
AGAINST EASTERN SUBURBS, X
SEPTEMBER 1939. ATTEMPTED
TO RELIEVE HIS OWN ! GOAL MOUTH
WITH A POWERFUL KICK DOWN-FIELD.
THE BALL HIT THE BOOT OF W. LONGFORD
(£.S.) WHO HAD HIS BACK TO THE COAL
.., IT REBOUNDED THROUGH THE POSTS. '
THE UMPIRE RULED A GOAL TO EASTS.
DID YOU KNOW THAT
or C MOST
TtiMfiCO
. r
THE TOBACCO THAT
SMOKERS FAVOUR 18
. Champ/on, . pipe
SMOKERS OF EITHER
BRIGHT OK DARK
tfinmct/r
'AND THOSE WHO
- ROLL-THEIR-OWH JKOfA
Champion R£Ady tamo okF/nb Chtarb
UHANIMPUS THAT IT'S /)£ , (P /
970 D-10.52
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Costs the Key
“Costs of production in Aus-
tralia,” said Lord Bruce in
Sydney, “have got out of hand.
Our national income has
increased by 4 p.c, over the past
two years. But, unhappily, prices
have risen by 50 p.c., and we are
rather worse off than before.”
Lord Bruce could see no sub-
stitute for the basic thing—work.
We had to bring down our costs.
“Governments cannot do the job.
We, the people, have to do it
ourselves. Governments can
assist to some extent by relieving
taxation and minimising controls.
But production is the foundation
of our economic well-being. We
must all individually search bur
consciences to see if we are each
doing our job.”
The Bulletin couldn’t agree
with Lord Bruce more. In its
issue of October 29 last it in fact
said:
The fact that in some cases higher
worker-efficiency has offset wages
carried to a higher level by a previously-
created inflationary momentum is
something for all concerned to ponder
over. It points to the fact that higher
output per man per week is really
the solution of most of our cost,
production and standard-of-living
problems. Should production per
working-week be further increased by
the working of more hours it is
highly probable that wage-inflation
will be checked effectively, and with
the checking of this upsurge in costs
greater confidence will return to
investors and to industry, with a full
revival of employment. But there is
no question about the necessity of
higher man-hour output. Without it
no citizen can look to the future with
the slightest confidence.
One of the problems to he over-
come in improving worker-efficiency
is the fact that many of our present-
day trade-unionists had a war-time
or post-war apprenticeship tgf' their
trades, and they are unaccustomed
to diligent work. But in this problem
not only the unionist is involved. In
many cases the employer has been
weak, sometimes because he was a
product of the inflationary boom
that ran in double-harness with the
“seilers’ market,” sometimes simply
because he did not have the moral
stamina to stand up to trade-union
coercion. In other cases he may have
been betrayed into submission (and
consequent inefficiency) by the defec-
tion of other proprietors in similar
industries who were not atrove taking
his workmen from him if he was
involved in a strike over wage-rates
or other conditions.
Whatever the reason, management
and employees now have to get
cracking together on the job of
increasing the quality and quantity of
their outputs and reducing costs.
With lower costs and an adequate
flow of goods there is no visible limit
to the industrial expansion and em-
ployment potential of Australia.
Bruce, in his address, pointed to
the recent prosperity of Aus-
tralia, which arose out of good
seasons and high export prices.
But he did not think that the
people of the world were going
to be able to continue paying
such prices. We had' to get our
costs down.
“It is too much of an instinct
all over the world,” he added,
“to think that Governments can
put things right. Employers and
employees will have to get down
to the problem of greater pro-
duction. They should get
together privately and without
publicity. If they do it privately
they will avoid a lot of disagree-
ment and discord.” When plans
were ready, they should go to
the Governments and ask their
aid. Then the greatest publicity
should be given to the scheme.
If this were not done. Lord
Bruce thought a crisis was
inevitable,
“For goodness’ sake, pull
yourselves together,” he con-
cluded. And that, bluntly, sin-
cerely and urgently, is what is
called for.
Forbes and “Black” Money
At the resumed examination
in Sydney into - the affairs
of John Woolcott Forbes
(Louis Brandi), bankrupt
finance-juggler, the bankrupt
admitted that he had invested
about £50,000 of “black”
money for a number of
people. Though he denied he
was running “a den of rogues,”
he admitted that of those who
came to see him about 50 p.c.
had “black” money to invest. He
suspected that it was income not
disclosed to the taxation authori-
ties, and it was invested in fic-
titious names in his companies.
These companies include
Irving Investments Pty., Ltd.,
Capital Investments Corpora-
tion, Ltd., Syndicate Mining
Options, Ltd., Mt. Eba Gold
Mines, Ltd., Australian and
International Consolidated
Finance Co. Pty., Ltd., Spring
Valley Tin Mines, Amalgamated
Tin, Ltd., the Australian Land
and Agency Co. Pty., Ltd., and
R.U.R. (Aust.), Ltd.
Forbes, questioned by Mr,
Manning (for the Official Re-
ceiver), said he did not think the
investors of the “black” money
would get any of it back.
Forbes, denying that he tried
to rig the market for Mt. Eba
and other shares, said he had
“tried to strengthen it.” He ad-
mitted that he spent about
£lO,OOO trying to raise the price
of Mt. Eba Gold shares on the
Stock Exchange. It was in his
interest, he admitted, to rig the
market so shareholders would
not sell. He employed brokers
on both sides of the deals.
Syndicate Mining Options,
said Forbes, was formed at his
instigation. It floated Mt. Eba
Gold Mines —Forbes said a man
named Goodsir carried the trans-
action through. In August,
1947, £5850 was paid to
Harold J. Price, apparently for
nothing, though recorded in the
cash-book of Syndicate Mining
Options as being for mining
options, (Price, a solicitor, was
sentenced to 12 years’ jail in
another connection-fraudulent
misappropriation—and died in
Long Bay Jail.)
Forbes would not answer
when asked if cheques drawn on
Irving Investments, Syndicate
Mining Options and Capital In-
vestments since July, 1947,
totalled £259,000. He denied
that he got people to subscribe
for ss. shares in Capital Invest-
ments at 10s. a share and
pocketed the premium himself.
He did sell ss. shares at 10s.
each, but thought the balance
went to “the company.” The
Registrar told Forbes that Mr.
Manning was pointing out that
it never went to the company,
and that either Forbes, McCon-
nell or Smith got it. Forbes
denied that he received it, and
so did Murray Guy Smith (secre-
tary and director of some of the
Forbes group of companies).
Smith said that Forbes or Price
received the money. McConnell
(Forbes’s private secretary)
would not answer.
Major-General H. W. Lloyd
said he joined the board of
R.U.R., Ltd., at the request of
Forbes, whom he had known
since 1936, though he was aware
that Forbes had been sent to
jail for fraud and had robbed
people of huge sums of money.
He knew the majority of the
shares in R.U.R. were owned by
Capital Investments. He had
thoroughly examined the pro-
duct of R.U.R. and thought it
was a revenue-producer. He
had no control, he said, over
the sale of shares held in R.U.R.
by Capital Investments, though
he knew some had been sold at
345. and some down to 6s. Mr.
Manning said there was only one
transfer at 65., and that was to
Mrs. Forbes —it had “all the ear-
marks of a completely dishonest
transaction.” Forbes was in
complete control of the com-
pany, General Lloyd said; he
himself had nothing to do with
controlling it.
F. T. Smythe, auditor, ques-
tioned about the withdrawals of
large sums by cheque from
Forbes’s companies, said he had
no idea who got the money. He
was told, he said, that people
wanted cash for shares that were
sold. S. H. Winter, a director of
Capital Investments, said he did
not know that Forbes was tak-
ing thousands of pounds out of
the co. and putting it into his
pocket, as claimed by Mr.
Manning. He admitted to sign-
ing a lot of the cheques himself.
Winter said he also signed the
co.’s balance-sheets as secretary
and director. Forbes was in
charge of the set-up.
Forbes told Mr. Manning that
he had agreed to pay 25 p.c. com-
mission on shares sold by a man
named Hansen, and another
named Wilkinson, who was
Forbes’s brother-in-law.
Wilkinson, called and ques-
tioned by Mr, Manning, admitted
he had received about £BOOO
commission over 18 months.
Since about three years ago he
had been a nominee for Forbes
companies in thousands of share
transactions in false names. He
had forgotten some of the names.
He signed anything Forbes put
before him in these transactions.
He had extensive share trans-
actions himself,
Roma (Q.) Bore
“Petro”: On October 27 the
Associated Australian Oilfields
test-bore was down to 1444 ft.;
by November 10 it was at 2241 ft.,
and on December 8 the depth
was reported as 3151 ft. These
figures represent, approximately,
average rates of drilling of 400 ft.
and 230 ft. per week respectively,
neither of which can be de-
scribed as speeding; but the
slower progress over the last four
weeks is attributed to coring.
The depth at which coring was
started is not given, but, as
Roma Blocks No. 1 test (drilled
in 1929-30) first struck signs of
petroleum at 3445 ft., and the
same co.’s. No. 4 test (drilled
during 1940-41) did so at 3497 ft,
there would not appear to be
much necessity to start coring
above, say, 3250 ft. under normal
conditions, particularly as coring
(with the object of obtaining
information as to the specific
gravity, velocity of sound and
other physical data of the strata
penetrated) is standard procedure
during a geophysical survey and,
presumably, was carried out by
the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources during the four years
or so it spent on the job.
Possibly abnormal strati-
graphic conditions have been
encountered in the AO2 test
above 3150 ft. and faulted and/or
lenticular strata are already in
evidence, as anticipated in these
columns (B. 26/11/’52).
Metropolitan Cement
The £1 shares in Metropolitan
Portland Cement have sunk to
ss. since the delayed presen-
tation of the last accounts. Just
on a year ago the co. owed
the Rural Bank £2,413,124, other
creditors £205,089, and it was
still in the establishment stage.
Paid capital is £1,004,123.
The co. has been selling
cement at a premium of 50 p.c.
above the price allowed to be
charged by other manufacturers
in N. S. Wales, and it has also
been getting a higher price in
Victoria and Queensland, where
there is a more acute shortage
of cement. But the capitalisa-
tion of the concern is so high
that depreciation and interest on
the overdraft would probably
amount tp something like 20 to
25 p.c. on capital—that is, assum-
ing a 5 p.c. basis in each case.
The co. is a high-cost pro-
ducer, and it has financial prob-
lems that 1 would be a great
worry to any concern that had
not been so politically favored.
Even with political favors taken
in, the investment possibilities
of the show are very doubtful.
The co.’s product, however, is
welcome in a market which is
likely to be undersupplied in
certain States for some time.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
\
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
) BARKERS
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAHHEEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAKBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. Si), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
GUARD
mMUi' Cls
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for erery type of business II record*
all Sale*. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing id appearance. Send lor full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH •• .. Docket Book Co. (AusL)
From a banker’s diary
No. 9
Wednesday: Mr. BKm will shortly
be making another business
trip interstate. He asked me
to put him in touch with some
of our country branch managers
«i
A banker is a good man to know
Mr. ■■■■■ is a customer of my branch,
but his business takes him to many parts of the
Commonwealth. So when he travels he arranges
for introductions from me to our branch
managers in the places he will visit. He finds it
useful to have someone in each place to whom
he can turn for information on local business
conditions. As he says —to be a customer of
the “Wales” is to have friends all over Australia.
You, too, should consult and use —
/You Ctt«-
(INOOBPOEATKD IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5219C
KLG
CORUNDITE
£
m H
C
ood *
tO<T f°°" | 1 HO 220
I I
REQUEST A COPY OF
THE K.L.G. RECOMMEND.
ATION BOOKLET FROM
YOUR LOCAL DEALER
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Assets and Taxes
Capital spending has been get-
ting ahead of capacity under the
spur of Maoriland’s 30 per cent,
special depreciation allowance,
spread over five years, which
came in seven years ago, partly
as a pump-primer to help
industry to overtake arrears of
development due to the war, and
is now making the pace faster
than N.Z. can cope with com-
fortably without borrowing
abroad.
Looked at from the exchange
angle, special depreciation is a
good idea pushed too far, and
is leading to over-expansion in
capital assets in some directions
at the cost of semi-starvation in
others, these being mainly the
Government and semi-Govern-
ment sectors of the little
country’s economy. In the busi-
ness sector, capital spending has
reached, or is near, the point of
diminishing return, with here
and there surplus capacity since
the fall in consumer-spending,
which, however, may be only
temporary.
Taking the good with the evil,
probably N.Z. hasn’t overstepped
the mark much, but it will have
to go easy in spending over a
good part of the industrial field
if finance, labor and resources
are to be made available in suffi-
cient quantity for big new pro-
jects, along with the national
works which must accompany
them. State spending on capital
schemes has a lot of leeway to
make up, while current depart-
mental outlay and taxes have
been going up and up on an
extravagant scale.
Special depreciation would
qualify for good marks as a
Keynesian method of taking up
the slack in hard times, but
politicians and officials have
been slow to see the need to
modify it. This is one of the
incentives N.Z. could well dis-
pense with, as the Taxation
Committee realised last year,
when it recommended that spe-
cial and ordinary depreciation
on plant and premises should be
merged on a basis of 20 p.c.
annually, as a maximum, ad-
justed as assets were written off.
This and other findings of the
committee had merit, but were
pigeonholed when the Govern-
ment couldn’t summon up
enough courage to tackle the big
problem.
Pulp and Paper
To float its outsize Murupara
pulp-and-paper industry, which
it hails as a potential future rival
to dairying, meat and wool, and
a fourth great prop for Maori-
land prosperity, N.Z. will draw
funds from; at least six countries
and will count on outsiders to
finance the greater part of the
£ll million initial establishment
cost.
This is how the cost will be
shared: New Zealand, £4.4
million (40 p.c.); Britain, £3.3
million (30 p.c.); Australia,
£300,000 (3 p.c.); Canada,
£900,000 (8 p.c.); United States,
£l.B million (16 p.c.); Sweden
and Switzerland, £300,000
(3 p.c.).
Three million will be wanted
immediately to give the show a
first push, with N.Z.’s Govern-
ment putting up a million, the
Tasman Pulp and Paper Co.,
Ltd., £700,000, the Australian
Press a million and the M.L.
Press £300,000.
Later on there will be a call
for £3 million share-money and
later still for £2 million in deben-
tures, but these issues are
shelved meanwhile, much to the
relief of Maorilanders, to shorten
the wait for divs. This wouldn t
be a favorable time to test the
market, because there’s precious
little free cash around, and the
promoters are hoping things will
loosen up.
With a deadline of three years
to get into production, there will
be no time to lose, for it is not
just a matter of building and
equipping the mills, to turn out
60,000 tons of newsprint, 40,000
tons of pulp and 40 million
board feet of sawn timber yearly,
under the scheme as lately
modified, at an aggregate capital
cost of £22 million, of which
seven million is likely to be
borrowed abroad ; but on top of
all this the Government will have
to find £l3 million for rail and
harbor facilities, to build an
electric power-station, to harness
the forest for quick harvesting •
and to build a workers’ settle-
ment at the mill-site.
Prime Minister Holland, in a
moment of inspiration, said in
Parliament that the launching of
the scheme would be “a great
milestone in the development of
New Zealand.” Maoriland cal-
culates that the saving will run
into 16 million dollars a year,
in the early stages, and there
might be up to six million
sterling to be netted in exports
besides.
Capital Starvation
After nearly a quarter of a
century since it called a halt to
external borrowing, except for
a brief re-entry in the mid-
’thirties and again in the war
years, Maoriland can’t hold off
much longer. Every Maori-
lander, from Priminister Sid
Holland downwards, knows this,
or ought to know it, but many
with Socialist theories won’t
admit it, although capital star-
vation is staring them in the
face.
Some months ago, when the
P.M- saw the way things were
going, Governor E. C. Fussell,
of the Reserve Bank, was sent
off on a borrowing mission
round the world to jack-up
enough funds to finance the
multi-million Murupara pulp-
and-newsprint scheme; which,
in good time, he succeeded in
doing on terms that haven’t been
disclosed yet, although it’s an
open secret that the money will
cost 4\ p.c., whether it’s sterling
or dollars.
This was only a start, and
now Mr. Holland himself is in
London, cap in hand, looking
for millions for national develop-
ment, along with a tidy sum
for municipal and semi-Govern-
ment projects besides. N.Z.
needs the money, and needs it
urgently, or its capital pro-
gramme will be half-paralysed.
There’s no prospect of keeping
works going, let alone expand-
ing them, out of current in-
come, nearly all of it from ex-
ports—butter, cheese, meat and
wool —buoyant and all as this is.
To dip deeply enough into in-
come for capital goods would
leave M.L. so short of funds for
current consumption that the
little country’s high standard of
living would come down with
a bump until the tooling-up
period —a matter of years —was
well advanced.
The rather fragile structure of
the Welfare State couldn’t stand
such a shock, and politically Mr.
Holland and his party would be
signing their death-warrant to
attempt a solution along these
lines. N.Z.’s best asset is its
high credit standing, reinforced
by the smallness of its external
debt, with an interest bill of
only £2,560,000 yearly, against
£7,850,000 at the time of the big
depression, and only 1.03 p c. of
export income, against 19.85 p.c.
then.
The catch is that every coun-
try in the Commonwealth wants
to borrow, and there’s no capital
pool in sight. But the Com-
monwealth isn’t stony-broke,
although it’s hard-up. Maori-
land can afford to offer terms
that should attract lenders, if
it’s allowed to, and it’s up to
Mr. Holland to make the
arrangements.
Television
New Zealand isn’t rushing
into television, however im-
patient business might be to get
going. Nothing can be done
until officialdom says the word,
and it’s in no hurry. Nor, f° r
that matter, are Maorilanders
generally.
When the time comes, the little
country is likely to be one of
the costliest to harness for T.V.,
what with sparse settlement, its
1000-mile stretch from tip to tip
and a lot of high country separat-
ing its four cities. A good deal
of “bouncing” will be needed to
give reasonably good coverage,
and N.Z, might find T.V. costs
more than treble those for radio,
which is, roughly, the basis
•where T.V. has put up its best
performance, so far, in U.S.A.
As an economic proposition it
doesn’t look too bright, and N.Z.
might wait for years before it
makes up its mind to take the
plunge. This might be a lean
time for radio, which has been
feeling the draught fairly severely
for a couple of years or so, as
the majority of listeners seem
content to wear out old sets.
The Government isn’t saying
much, probably because it hasn’t
much to say, and what it does
say is so meaningless that it
might as well observe complete
silence.
This, for instance, from
Minister of Broadcasting R. M.
Algie: “I hope we shall not fol-
low along the same lines with
television as we did with radio
in its infancy. We don’t want
to make the mistakes we made
then.” And this; “Broadcasting-
engineers have explored the line-
age and standards in use in
major overseas countries, and the
next step is to decide what
standards should be adopted
here.” These remarks don’t
leave Maorilanders much wiser,
nor does a Ministerial platitude
that the bigwigs will have to
decide whether T.V. is to be
operated as a national service,
in association with broadcasting,
how many stations N.Z. can
afford, which city is to come
first, and so on. Industry, irked
by State caution or delay, could
launch T.V. within a couple of
years, it claims, and would take
the risk that enough Maori-
landers would be ready to buy
sets at prices from £75 upwards.
All it asks for is the chance. At
the moment its prospects don’t
appear to be worth much.


05
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Coltnan, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager; W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., 8.D.; Thomas fi!
Heller; W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Does your WILL still express your intentions?
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you consult your Solicitor and have your
Will revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing the Trustees Executors and Agency
Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a company with over 74 years’ specialised experience in the Administration
of Estates.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
TR4.35
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
. . ToEe-
feept.. Profit. Dividends. serves, Eeserves.
1943.. 648.004 G p.c. = 526,800 16,204 6,416,754
1944.. 551,050 6 „ „ 526,800 24,250 6,441,004
1945.. 552,907 6 „ „ 526,800 20,107 6,407,111
1946.. 569,385 6J „ ~ 537,775 31,610 6,498,721
1947.. 617,532 6| „ ~581,675 35,857 6,534,578
1948.. 728,903 74 „ ~ 658,500 70,403 6,604,981
1949. . 743,692 8 „ „ 702,400 41,292 6,646,273
1950.. 847,790 8 „ „ 702,400 145,390 6,791,663
1951.. 954,006 8 „ „ 702,400 251,606 7,043,269
1952.. 997,769 8 „ ~702,400 295,369 7,338,638
The past 12 months brought an end to
the post-war boom in Australia, and
there are now many conflicting forces
at work in a complex economic outlook.
Throughout the situation has been marked
by a rather delicate balance between de-
flationary and inflationary forces. And
the part played by the private trading
banks—the ’Wales is largest, oldest and
one of the most vigorous of them —in
countering the difficulties which emerged
has been greater than generally realised.
If the heavy outflow of money occasioned
by the large deficit on external account
had not been largely offset by a rapid
internal expansion of bank credit, a
much more damaging contraction of
money in circulation would have
occurred, and the consequent deflationary
movement would have resulted in severe
casualties in many sections of trade and
industry.
In a broad and penetrating analysis of
the situation, Mr. Martin Mcllrath,
president of the ’Wales, has emphasised:
(1) The need for Government to en-
courage conditions favorable to accumu-
lation of savings and capital investment,
especially in the private sector of the
economy ; (2) the need to step-up pastoral
and rural production; and (3) the need
to reduce costs and increase produc-
tivity in the secondary industries and
distributive trades, etc.
The first means still more freedom
from official controls, maintenance of a
tight rein upon inflationary pressures,
possibly some further slight strengthening
of interest-rates, limitation of public
wprks to the volume of money and
material resources available in a free
market, and lightening of the present
heavy burden of income, pay-roll and
some other taxes. The Federal Govern-
ment has already gone part of the way
in most of these matters, and, so far as
the private banks are concerned, pro-
poses to go further by introducing
banking-reform legislation early in 1953.
The position in public finance -is com-
plicated by the sorry plight of the States,
especially N. S. Wales, and by a shrunken
tax base.
Excepting wheat, the stepping-up of
primary production is a long-term
problem, which the Agricultural Council
has tackled by establishing five-year
targets, with one eye on the balance-of-
payments problem and the other on
growth of population. But much yet re-
mains to be done in connection with
costs, further tax-relief and other in-
centives. Seasonal conditions are in the
lap of the gods.
On the industrial side the days of easy
opulence ended with the passing of the
wool-price boom, though many were re-
luctant to recognise the change until the
tightening of credit, drastic import re-
strictions and growth of consumer-resist-
ance forced them to do so. Those hardest
hit have been the textile, wholesale and
building trades. However, welcome signs
of improvement in the position are be-
ginning to appear, and hopes are that a
more soundly-based structure will emerge
from present vicissitudes. Trade is
competitive, and promises to become
more so, and while the wage-cost spiral
continues to rise stability will remain a
mirage, and so will enhanced standards
of living, greater social security and all
the benefits that ought to flow from
greater productivity.
The reaction upon the banking structure
has been a sharp decline in deposits,
marked growth in advances, and heavy
drain upon liquid resqprces, met by
release of trading-bank deposits which
had been frozen on “special account”
with the central bank. Here is what hap-
pened in the case of the ’Wales:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £B*lBo,ooo £8,780,000 £8,780,000
Notes .. ~ 80,962 80,957 80,955
Deposits, etc... 383,089,045 451,658,519 379.235.616
Final div. ~ 175,600 175.600 175,600
Liquids 130,867.829 135,394,275 135,921,419
Deposits* .. 133,535,567 152,102,584 46,722,589
Advances .. 130,211,874 175,639,486 207,857,008
Premises .. 4,300,000 4,600,000 5,100,000
Other assets .. 2,000 2,000 9,794
* Statutory deposits with central banks, Australia
and New Zealand.
The drop in deposits, etc., was
£72,422,903, growth in advances
£32,217,522, and contraction in the
amount on deposit with central banks
£105,916,897. When the books closed
advances amounted to 54.8 p.c, of
deposits, etc., and liquids and statutory
deposits to 35.8 p.c. and 12.3 p.c. respec-
tively of liabilities to the public. It is
a strong position. Still, the overall limit-
ing factor of liquidity will now slow-
down the rate of growth in advances.
After providing for contingencies—a
measure not likely to have been skimped
the cautious board wrote net earnings
£43,763 stronger at £997,769, which was
the best showing since 1927. It was
11.3 p.c. on capital, or 6.2 p.c, on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), The div. was kept at 8 p.c.
The stronger ratio of advances to
deposits, lift in the bank overdraft rate
from 4\ p.c, to 5 p.c. from August 1 last,
satisfactory level of export income, more
settled condition of internal trade, elimin-
ation of unfair competition from the
trading section of the Commonwealth
Bank, and relaxation of a number of
central-bank controls all augur well for
further improvement in earnings.
At £36 10s. (£4l 10s. a year ago) the
co.’s £4O shares paid to £2o—the other
£2O is a reserve liability callable only if
required on liquidation—give an immedi-
ate return of 4.4 p.c, on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £36 2s.
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£■ £ £ £ £
1947.. 482,267 192,959 116,480 172,828 2,979,266
Added to reserves, £12,800 .. 2,992,066
1948.. 509,258 193,830 113,687 201,841 3,198,907
Exchange fluctuation res., £11,733.. 3,205,640
Added tax reserve, £l2OO .. .. 3,206,840
1949.. 552,979 187,050 124,780 241,149 3,447,989
Add exchange reserve, £9004 3,456,993
Added tax reserve, £10,750 .. .. 3,467,743
1950.. 610,481 197,616 141,006 271,859 3,739,602
Add exchange fluctuation res., £9043.. 3,748,645
Less taxation reserves, £5500 .. 3,743,145
1951.. 678,937 209,273 167,885 301,779 4,044,924
Less taxation reserve, £10,250 .. 4,034,674
Add exchange fluctuations, £8954 4,043,628
To staff fund, £539 .. .. .. 4,043,089
1952.. 727,093 226,370 191,213 309,510 4,352,599
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1947,
£13,500; 1948-50, £18,000; 1950-52, £21,600.
Though the rate of growth has slackened,
as was to be expected under existing
conditions, the co. continues along the
even tenor of its way writing ordinary
and accident contracts throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, and paying
regular bonuses to policyholders and
dividends to shareholders.
In the life department, where about
threequarters of the contracts are
gathered in Australia, £1,754,722 (up
£76,334) of new business was put on the
books last term, and the average amount
per policy was £BOO as against £674
for the previous term. Net premium
income was £486,838 (up £36,269), and
interest and rents, etc., turned in £123,607
(up £4100). Claims (£191,989, up
£13,905) were well within actuarial expec-
tation, the mortality rate being only
49 p.c. of that allowed for. Including
depreciation, etc,, exes. (£135,303, up
£16,625) made off with 27.8 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums as against 26.3 p.c.
for the previous term, the increase being
due mainly to wage-lifts.
The surplus of income over outgo in
this department was thus £283,153 (up
£9839), all of which was transferred to
the statutory life fund, raising it to
£3,952,368, which also has the support
and assistance of £75,906 of other re-
serves —£40,000 on account of property
and investment and £35,906 in respect
of exchange fluctuation. After allowing
for the growth in actuarial liabilities
under policies and other contingencies,
the divisible surplus was £80,913 (down
£7165), of which £71,864 (up £7000) was
allotted as bonuses among policyholders
at the same rates as for the previous
term. The remaining £9049 was carried
forward on policyholders’ account.
The net effective rate of interest earned
(after deducting taxation, £35,355, up
£2451) on total funds in the life depart-
ment was £3 3s. sd. p.c. (down Is. 6d.
p.c.), the slip being due to the lag be-
tween rising costs and adjustment of
rental values, which are controlled. In
calculating liabilities under policies the
actuary assumes that the life fund alone
will show a net return of 2\ p.c.
In the accident and general section,
in which shareholders are mainly in-
terested, premium income (£84,998) was
£11,182 stronger, and net interest, rents,
etc. (£31,650), were £3395 lighter, while
claims (£34,381) increased by £3192 and
exes. (£34,310) by £6703. The surplus
was thus £2lOB short of the previous
year’s at £47,957, of which £4474 was
reserved for unexpired risks, £539 was
sent to staff fund and the remaining
£42,944, equal to 11.9 p.c. on capital, was
transferred to the p. and 1. account.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c. (£21,600) and
£20,000 was passed to the property and
investment reserve (now £80,618). Owing
to the uncertain economic outlook, the
board deferred a lift in the div., which
will be considered again at the close of
next accounts. The market prices the
f.*p. £1 shares, covered by 325. lid. in
net tangibles, at 235. 6d, (295. 3d. a year
ago) to give an immediate return of
5.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
The year’s improvement in the net
tangible position (both departments
combined) was £307,675:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Public sec. 1,583,780 1,725,965 1,847,003 2,026,828
Mortgages.. 356,282 404,262 439,306 474,057
Loans on
policies, etc, 68,851 72,738 78,890 87,547
Book debts,
cash, etc. 150,682 154,897 178,022 174,422
Equipment. 5,967 8,882 16,525 17,481
Properties.. 738,558 697,786 665,477 647,504
Shares, etc. 1,045,461 1,218,702 1,366,556 1,476,227
Total ~ 8,949,581 4,278,232 4,591.279 4,904,066
Creditors .. 123,592 160,630 186,355 191,467
Net tangibles 3,823,989 4,117,602 4,404,924 4,712,599
Assur. fund* 3,186,874 3,424,783 3,698,741 3,986,368
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: 1949,
£17,405 ; 1950, £23,682; 1951, £29,526; 1952,
£34,000.
In the aggregate assets are fully worth
the value stated, less any reserve fund
taken into account, the board says.
Public securities, which account for
41.3 p.c. of total assets, consist of Com-
monwealth bonds £1,728,299 (up £93,917),
N.Z. Government securities £133,895 (un-
changed) and local-Govemment-body
paper £164,634 (up £85,908). Of the
property item £418,728 is office premises
and the balance other freeholds and lease-
holds. Shareholdings, etc. (up £109,671)
include £128,473 in controlled cos., the
balance being mainly ord. and pref
shares, which appear at cost.
Mt. Isa, Ltd. (Q.)
t „ Net , To Re- Re-
June, Proflt.f , — I—Dividends 1 —Dividends serves, serves.
£ £ £
44.. 76,980 Nil 76,980 105,563
’45.. 126,236 Nil 126,236 231,799
’46.. 149,410 Nil 149,410 381,209
Share premiums, £139,338 ~ .. 520,547
’47.. 502.585 10 p.c. = 194,206 308,379 828,926
’48.. 872.921 17 ~ „ 755,779 117,142 946,068
’49..1,457.337 25 „ „ 1,157,652 299,685 1,245,753
Share premiums, £184,852 .. .. 1,430,605
Cost debenture redemption, £107,829 1,322,776
’50.. 878,587 15 p.c. = 736,183 142,404 1,465,180
’51..1,360,842 25 „ „ 1,354,384 6,458 1,471,638
’62..2,179,758 20 ~ ~1,151,462 1,028,296 2,499,934
t After deducting debenture interest and allowing
for depreciation.
The co.’s big medium-grade silver-lead-
zinc and high-grade copper deposits are
at Mt. Isa in the centre of N.Q. Treat-
ment of the copper ore will not begin
until early 1953. Other ore is milled on
the spot, and the products railed to
Townsville, whence silver-lead bullion is
shipped for treatment at the Britannia
refinery, near London, the zinc concen-
trates are sold overseas, and a small
tonnage of copper dross goes to Port
Kembla (N.S.W.) for refinement and sale
locally.
Early last term the £1,189,197 of issued
capital in Mining Trust, Ltd. (London)
was bought in exchange for 849,427 of
Isa’s f.-p. £1 shares. Principal asset thus
acquired was the Britannia lead refinery
(paid capital £100,000). The trust co.
also held 116,462 £1 shares and £1,147,040
of 8 p.c. debentures in Mt. Isa, as well as
scrip in a number of other mining
ventures. Among other things, the deal
means that Isa now controls redemption
of most of its own debenture stock as
well as the refinery. Profits earned by
the trust and refining cos. last term
(amounts unstated) were retained in the
respective businesses, because the time-
lag between production and sales which
followed on the return of lead to open-
market trading has called for more work-
ing capital. For the 12 months of 1950
the refinery netted £78,966 and paid divs.
totalling £41,259 net. For the same period
the trust co. netted £87,358 and paid 6d.
a share (£78,041 net).
Despite the sharp rise in costs, Isa was
able to show £818,916 more profit last
term. The leap was due mainly to
higher metal prices, and partly to treat-
ment of more ore for a better outturn
of metals. Including the lead bonus
paid to employees (£2,169,066), equal to
69.465. per ton of ore mined, all-in costs
were 31.975. heavier at 160.655. per ton.
The £2,179,758 of profit claimed was
written after allowing £BOO,OOO (up
£221,636) for depreciation, £2,135,282 (up
£389,617) for taxation, £15,972 for losses
on the working of a subsidiary and station
property, and £58,065 for exes, connected
with purchase of Mining Trust shares.
The £2,179,758 was equal to 37.8 p.c. on
average capital as against 27.7, 17.9, 32.7
and 19.6 p.c, back to 1948. Because
of heavy capital outlay on the new copper
plant, the div. was lowered from 25 p.c.
to 20 p.c., and £1,000,000 of the £1,028,296
that remained was earmarked to see the
copper project, etc., to completion.
Average London metal prices have
moved in this way:
Lead, Zinc.
Year to 30/6/’5O ..£S9S 16 4 £SB6 12 4
Year to 30/6/’5l ~ 135 18 0 148 13 11
Year to 30/6/’52 .. 167 10 11 183 14 3
Month July, ’52 .. .. 134 1 4 130 0 0
Month Sept., ’52 .. .. 132 10 0 122 18 2
Month Oct., ’52 .. .. 90 15 3 117 9 7
Dec. 9, ’52 .. .. 94 12 .6 110 0 0
The recent sharp decline in the lead
figure followed resumption of free-trading
in the metal. And further easing of the
price for zinc is expected when that metal
joins the free list early in 1953.
The mill treated 615,215 tons (up
55,940 tons) ore, assaying 7,4 p.c. lead,
6.050 z. silver and 7.0 p.c, zinc, for 113,076
tons (up 10,038 tons) lead concentrates
and 46,881 tons (up 1985 tons) zinc con-
centrates. And the sintering plant and


Missing Friend
RAYMOND BURTON
WILL RAY'MOND BURTON, a son of WM.
F. BURTON, deceased, or anyone knowing
of his whereabouts, please communicate
with THE FIDELITY TRUSTEE CO.
LTD., of 101 Lydiard Street North, Bal-
larat, Victoria.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE WILLIAM JAMES ANDER-
SON late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
CATHERINE ANDERSON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3993 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
25th day pf February 1953 and obtain a
copv of the Petition without charge from
HICKSON LAKEMAN & HOLCOMBE,
Solicitors, 10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—j. POUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN EDWARD WEBB late of New-
town N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
AGNES ISABELL WEBB has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4576 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend the suit you ma£ enter
•m appearance on or before the 25th day
of February 1953 at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney A
conv of the Petition may be had without
charge from J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, 115
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
>7//gr
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.VV.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31 /6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under lib.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Established 1835
A‘N*Z
5* » I
W
are merged
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD
Established 1837
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1952
(Expressed in Australian Currency )
LIABILITIES.
£A.
CAPITAL AUTHORISED AND ISSUED—
-8,500,000 Shares of £2 each .. £17,000,000
Less Reserve Liability thereon.. 8,500,000
Credited as Paid up (English
Currency) .. .. .. £8,500,000 Equiv. to £A10,607,500
RESERVE FUND (See Note 1) „
(English Currency) .. . . £5,750,000 Equiv. to £A7,216,200
PROPOSED DIVIDEND —Payable January, 1953 (net) 336,026
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT BALANCE . . . . 1,262,687
Total Shareholders’ Funds .. .. “• •
CURRENT, DEPOSIT AND OTHER ACCOUNTS, includ-
ing Bills Payable and Drafts in Transit, provision
for Taxation and Contingencies Reserves
BALANCES DUE TO OTHER BANKS
AMOUNTS DUE TO SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES ..
ACCEPTANCES FOR CUSTOMERS, as per contra ..
CONFIRMED CREDITS, GUARANTEES AND OTHER
ENGAGEMENTS on behalf of Customers and others,
as per contra • • • •
NOTES *
1. The amount of the Reserve Fund includes the equivalent of
£1,030,000 English Currency, which represents the former
balance of the Share Premium Account of The Union Bank
of Australia Limited.
2. Assets and Liabilities in currencies other than Australian have
been converted into Australian Currency at the rates ruling at
the date of the Balance Sheet.
3 There are forward exchange contracts for the sale of currencies
to the value of £ AM,961,121 (1951—fiA17.181.258) which
are covered to a corresponding amount by forward purchases,
by arrangements with central banks or by the Bank s holdings
of foreign currencies.
4 Under the Companies’ Act. 1948, banking companies, including
this bank, are exempted from showing the aggregate amount of
their reserves, the movements therein and the maiket value
of investments.
£A.
19,482,463
309,104,550
17,650,811
315,763
2,109,879
348,663.466
32,050,439
£A380,713,905
ASSETS.
COIN, BULLION. NOTES AND CASH AT BANKERS
CHEQUES OF OTHER BANKS
MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE ..
BALANCES WITH AND DUE FROM OTHER BANKS..
INVESTMENTS AT OR UNDER MARKET VALUE—
Quoted in Great Britain:
British Government Securities .. £5,160,026
Other Securities .. .. .. 176,642
Quoted outside Great Britain:
Australian and New Zealand Govern-
ment Securities . . . . 8,310,388
Other Securities .. .. .. 109,747
Unquoted Securities
TAX RESERVE CERTIFICATES—BRITISH GOVERN-
MENT
SPECIAL ACCOUNT WITH COMMONWEALTH BANK
OP AUSTRALIA
BILLS RECEIVABLE AND REMITTANCES IN
TRANSIT
LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS (Less Pro-
vision for Doubtful Debts) and other Accounts ..
LIABILITY OF CUSTOMERS FOR ACCEPTANCES,
as per contra
£A. £A.
27,888,484
5,311,203
4,204,250
2,056,766
5,336,668
8,420,135
648,121
14,404,924
39,283,000
47,703,530
202,081,901
2,109,879
FIXED ASSETS—
Bank Premises and sites at cost, less amounts
written off .. .. .. ■ • • • • • 3,308,891
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary Companies at
cost, less amount written off .. .. .. 315,638
345,038,937
3,624,529
348.663,466
(.The suDsicnary Companies have not traded
at any time and have made neither profit
nor loss. Their only assets are deposits with
this bank totalling £A315,763 (1951 —
£A753).]
LIABILITY OP CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS ON CON-
FIRMED CREDITS. GUARANTEES AND OTHER
ENGAGEMENTS, as per contra 32,050,439
£A380,713,905
17th November, 1952.
A. T. MAXWELL
A. MACKINNON
D. J. ROBARTS
Directors
0. E. MURCH,
Head Office Manager
A. H. BULLOCK,
Head Office Accountant
Joint General Managers for Australia and New Zealand
W. W. RIDDINGTON A. R. L. WILTSHIRE
blast-furnace turned out more
silver-lead bullion (36,860 tons,
up 3365 tons) and copper dross
(2901 tons, up 675 tons).
The marketable metals in the
various products were:
June Silver, Lead, Copper, Zinc,
30, Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1950. .2,583,466 38,606 582 21,214
1951. .2,651,928 84,650 437 22,946
1952. .3,296,147 38,319 616 23,827
On the metallurgical side prin-
cipal achievement has been a
pronounced improvement in
recoveries which followed intro-
duction of sulphur-dioxide gas
treatment of the flotation feed
about three years ago.
Ore reserves at June 30, 1952,
were conservatively put at:
f Assay \
Pb, Zn, Ag, Cu,
Lead-Zinc— Ton. p.c. p.c. oz. p.c.
Sulphides 9,600,750 8.5 6.8 6.4
Carbonates 251,500 9.1 3.9
Copper—■
Sulphides 3,706,950 3.8
Oxides 58,400 8.0
Areas north and south of the
co.’s present leases are being
prospected. To the north
277,000 tons of oxidised ore,
averaging 10 p.c. lead, - has been
disclosed, and the drill has
indicated some rich lead-zinc
sulphides below 700 ft., but in-
sufficient work has been done to
justify an estimate of pay-ore
available.
The mine is now ready to
deliver copper ore to the mill,
and the smelter is expected to
start up within the next month
or two. Construction has lagged
behind schedule and capital cost
has far exceeded original
estimates, due in both cases to
factors beyond the management’s
control. The whole copper plant
is designed to treat 30,000 tons
of sulphide ore a month for
1500 tons blister. Because the
lead-bonus has also to be paid
to employees in the copper sec-
tion, the profit from copper is
likely to be much less than
originally expected.
Allowing for alterations in the
method of presenting the
accounts, the year’s net addition
to fixed assets was £1,400,000-
odd, mostly in connection with
the new copper plant;
1951. 1952.
Paid capital . . £4,907,885 £5,757,312
Reserves . . . . 1,471,638 1,499,934
Depreciation res.f 2,238,462
Development res.. . 1,000,000
Debentures . . 1,477,288 1,414,788
Creditors! .. 3,177,463 4,623,047
Mines and plant. . 7,909,270 6,278,331
Shares other cos... 56;803 1,014,759
Stocks* .. .. 3,251,974 3,544,648
Debtors . . . . 482,685 485,229
Bonds and cash . . 1,622,004 2,972,113
* Includes products on hand, f Includes
final div. $ Written off against plant in
1952.
Of the increase of £957,956 in
shareholdings, £849,427 was in
respect of the Mining Trust
purchase, and most of the
balance for a recently-acquired
interest in Bowen Consolidated
Coal Mines, Ltd.
As for the current term, the
fall in lead and zinc prices will
puff down earnings from the two
metals, and it is doubtful
whether the copper smelter,
which will take time to run-in
and develop full earning-
capacity, will contribute much,
if anything, to the net result.
Some compensating advantage
in returns from the lead smelter
through Mining Trust might be
expected, but costs promise to
remain relatively high, notwith-
standing a drop in the rate of
lead-bonus, which follows the
price of the metal. Long-term
prospects will be governed
mainly by the relative levels of
costs and metal prices.
The market expects the 20 p.c.
div, to be maintained, and prices
the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares at 445.
(60s. a year ago) to return
9.1 p.c.
Pioneer Scheelite, N.L.
This Adelaide-controlled co.
has put up a creditable perform-
ance. It was launched in July,
1951, to take over the tungsten-
bearing lease of Imperial Gold
at Hatches Creek, Centralia.
Within 14 months it had de-
watered and rehabilitated the
mine and brought it to the pro-
duction stage, carried out sopie
1108 ft. of development, installed
a lot of plant and equipment and
erected a mill, which started up
in Sept, last, shortly after the
close of accounts.
Meanwhile 540 tons ore was
extracted, of which 140 tons was
put through the Government
battery for 4.15 tons concen-
trates, assaying 60.02 p.c. WO3,
which realised £6629. Costs per
ton of ore were mining and part-
development £9 and treatment,
etc., £7, total £l6. Net profit for
the 14 months was £1490. The
leases figure at £48,260, mill,
plant, etc., £91,460, and cash,
stores and ore at grass £lB,OBl.
Initial development and pre-
liminary exes, were capitalised at
£14,265 and £5202 respectively.
There was £10,202 coming to
creditors. Paid capital is
£161,250 in 775,000 ss. shares, of
which 125,000 are f.-p. and the
balance paid to 4s. each.
The mill, now reported to be
operating smoothly, is turning
out about two tons concentrates
a week, and expects to reach full-
scale throughput early in 1953.
New lodes of average-grade ore
(2} p.c. WO3) and better have
been disclosed on the bottom
level of the mine (215 ft.), where
other encouraging developments
have also been met with. Insuf-
ficient work has yet been done
to make a reliable estimate of ore
reserves. The future of the mine
lies largely in developments
below present bottom level,
which gives the scrip, now priced
at 6s. 2d., a speculative value.
In an initial four-week-run on
a commercial basis to Dec. 2,
Great Western Consolidated’s
new mill on the Copperhead
lease, near Southern Cross
(W.A.), treated 21,142 tons of
3.B3dwt. ore for a recovery of
13200 z. fine gold. There was
3220 z. in the tailings, thus leav-
ing 10950 z. locked up in plant
absorption, as usually happens
when a mill first starts up. The
recovery, therefore, cannot be
taken as an indication of future
performance. About two-thirds
of the feed came from the access-
road and quarry preparation,
and head-value of the ore con-
firms prospectus figures. When
run-in the mill will be able to
treat at least the 30,000 tons per
month for which it was designed,
the board says.
* * * *
Interest in Blue Spec, on the
faraway Pilbara field (W.A.),
has revived with discovery of
tungsten-bearing ore over widths
of from 12in. to 96in. on the
first four levels of the mine.
Sampling was done by Bewick,
Moreing and Co., the co.’s mine-
managers, but it is too early yet
to talk about average-values and
quantity of ore available. To
finance development, alterations
and additions to plant and
provide more working capital,
the co. has asked Capital Issues
Control for consent to issue
130,000 new ss. shares at par.
Paid capital is now £162,000 in
f.-p. ss. shares, price of which
shot up from ss. 2d. to 10s. Id.
and then eased to 9s. Id, over the
last three months.
* * * *
After 21 years’ work Maude
and Yellow Girl, Glen Willis
(Vic.), ceased operations at end
March last, and has leased part
of the mine and plant to former
employees. The steep rise in
costs, an empty till and shortage
of skilled labor were the troubles.
In its last nine months’ work the
co. crushed 6130 tons of 7.sdwt.
ore for a working loss of £7634.
In the next three months’ selec-
tive mining the syndicate ex-
tracted 470 tons of 14.4dwt. ore.
Estimated ore reserves are
56,480 tons, averaging about
7£dwt., of which 36,000 tons is
probable. Paid capital is £73,721
in 119,000 £1 shares. The co.
paid £34,475 in divs., the last
6d. a share being sent out in
Sept., 1945. At lune 30 last
there was £9248 in debtors’
balances, cash, etc., to meet
current liabilities of £8906.
Stores figure at £2274, ore
stocks £1566, freehold, plant,
etc.j £31,578, and the mine
£29,165, The market prices the
scrip at Is. 9d.


Women's Letters
sriDNcr
Carol-singing seems to be dominating
Sydney life at the moment. Nearly all
the parties include it, and a really deter-
mined carol-singer cpuld indulge in it all
day starting with the choristers at David
Jones’ at 9 a.m. and going on till the
various carols-by-candlelight found them
groping for the cough-drops. The town
really looks quite gay, with Christmas
decorations everywhere, including a fair-
sized fir-tree on an awning in Pitt-street,
its branches lit by colored lights at night.
King-street has at last lost its bulldozers,
or whatever they were, and is decorated
with Christmas crowds. That old Christ-
massy feeling is getting this town in its
spell once more.
# # *h '
Three patriotic associations combined
for the afternoon reception at the
Trocadero to Lord and Lady Bruce.
They were the Royal Empire Society,
represented by Lady Anderson and Mr.
W. J. Bradley, the Victoria League, repre-
sented by Mr. and Mrs. H. H. McNall,
and the Overseas League, represented
by Lady Keith Smith and Major and
Mrs. Chapman. Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
J. W. M. Eaton were also among
the 450 guests. Lord Bruce spoke with
wit and vigor and was warmly applauded
when he said that, although it was now
called the Commonwealth of Nations, the
British Empire still existed in Britain her-
self and in the hearts and minds of all
who still wished to consider themselves
part of the Empire.
The Lady Mayoress (Mrs. P. D. Hills)
will receive callers today from 11 a.m.
to 12 noon and tomorrow at the same
time. Anyone who wishes may call
upon her at that fime to meet her and pay
their respects. This custom has always
been followed at the Town Hall, although
not when the Lady Mayoress has been
in office in the preceding year. Gener-
ally between 300 and 400 women “make
their call,” many of them representing
the women’s organisations of the city.
The decorations at the Christmas-party
given by the Sydney Symphony Orchestral
Committee to members of the orchestra
on Wednesday were most attractive. The
committee, headed by its new president,
Mrs. Hope Gibson, had arranged masses
of flowers everywhere: hydrangeas,
Christmas bush, gladioli and banks of
greenery, while Mrs. Arthur Davis had
made the most enchanting blue-paper
angels with silver haloes, tiny paper
acolytes in red soutanes and white sur-
plices, a snow-man made entirely of
gardenias and another woolly one with a
black top hat. Mr. and Mrs. R. J. F.
Boyer, the Minister for Education and
Mrs. Heffron, the Lord Mayor, Mr. and
Mrs. Eugene Goossens, Mrs. A. Chartres,
Lady Plowman, Mrs. Frank Louat and
Dr. Grace Cuthbert Browne were present.
☆ ☆ ☆
Cruising on an ocean liner seems a very
pleasant way to spend Boxing Day,
especially when it means viewing the start
of the Sydney-Hobart yacht race and
following the race down the coast all
day. The Italo-Australian Welfare Centre
committee has arranged this cruise on the
liner Australia, which has been lent by
Lloyd Triestino. The ship will return
to port at dusk and there will be a dance
until 10 p.m. The tickets are £6 each,
which isn’t really so much when one
considers that it means one full day’s
cruise with all the ship’s facilities available
to the guests. Proceeds will go towards
the Italo-Australian Welfare centre for
the assistance of migrants.
VV V -
Colored fairy-lights decorated the
grounds of the Wahropnga home of Mr.
and Mrs, E. Herz when their daughters
Eva and Lilian gave a Christmas-party
to about 80 young friends on Saturday
night. The theme of the party was “Back
to 1925,” but as most of the guests hadn’t
sighted this vale of tears in that year a
rather liberal interpretation was put on
the fashions of the day. Some of the
funniest costumes were the striped
bathers of the ’nineties and the “masher”
outfits of Edwardian times. Eva and
Lilian had made their costumes, includ-
ing spangled stockings, but several
genuine dresses had been dug out of
boxes by obliging mammas, including the
white beaded tunic worn by Pat Wilson.
Margaret Kennedy, whose bandeau,
armlet and doll-like make-up were most
convincing, had bought her dress, black,
covered with fringes of looped beads, at
an auction, Sally Ingate’s skirt looked
about 2in. long—her husband Gordon
wore a striped Haileybury blazer with
aplomb. Don Braham wore a Harrow
blazer. The irrepressible Fred Kinney
made a not-very-frightening cad. Sue
Moses, who was with fiance Jim Robson
Scott, was one of the few who wore
1952 dress,
* ☆ ☆
This is attractive Beverley Coles,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. K. F. Coles,
of Bellevue Hill, who will leave shortly
for a tour of Europe. Beverley is presi-
dent of the junior committee of the
N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children,
which arranged a barbecue and dance at
Palm Beach in aid of the society last
Saturday. The barbecue was followed by
a dance at the lovely Palm Beach home
of Mr. and Mrs. Coles. Among the
guests were Sue Brunninghausen and
Jennifer Coghlaii, who each entertained
house-parties for the function, Rosemary
Chenhall and Dr. David Leach, Robin
Brockhoff and Alan Coogan. Photo by
Falk.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Christmas-party of the Aus-
tralian-American Association every man
was given a gardenia to wear, which gave
quite a festive appearance. The musical
programme included songs by Gladys
Moncrieff and Frank Lyall, followed by
carols—notably the “Twelve Days of
Christmas,” of which this Association
makes a speciality. Mrs. Florence Taylor
welcomed the 150 guests, who included
Mrs. Fergus George, Mrs. Keith Morris,
Mrs. T. J. Dorgan, Mrs. Rachel McGirr,
Mrs. L. Janes (who brought along the
Christmas-tree which her daughter Patricia
has had since she was a baby) and Mrs.
Ted Scorfield.
# # #
A most interesting exhibition of work
by graduate students of the design dip-
loma course at the East Sydney Technical
College was shown to members of the
Technical Women’s Group (wives of the
teaching and demonstration staffs of the
Department of Technical Education and
the University of Technology) by Miss
Phyllis Shillito, who is head of the
design department. Among those present
at morning-tea were Mrs. A. D. Denning
(patron), Mrs. P. McMahon (president)
and Mrs. J. F. Clark (vice-president).
The three graduate students were Mona
Johnston, Elizabeth Bluett and Langdon
Badger, who presented an amazing
amount of beautiful and skilful work in
weaving, pottery, fabric-design and print-
ing. Langdon Badger, who has specialised
in industrial design, had made models of
a motor-car, a refrigerator, storage-
cabinets, a traymobile with a hotplate
and drawers for china and cutlery, a
modern church with a ramp (for wed-
dings) and a spire on the ground, sauce-
pan shelves, relaxing chairs and, indeed,
everything that contributes to the every-
day aesthetics of modern life.
☆ ☆ ☆
The carol-singing at the Christmas-
party of the English Speaking Union’s
Music Circle seemed to be of rather a
superior quality. Not only the group of
trained singers who led it but all Ithe
members seemed to be hitting the high
notes with accuracy and strength, so'much
so that this Letter even hit a few herself
(or rather she thinks so). Mrs. Harry
Twigden, who has been Musical Director
of the circle for 21 years, received the
guest-of-honor. Lady Hallstrom, with
hostesses Mrs. Persia Porter, Mrs. A.
Keeling and Miss V. Hamblin. About
120 members attended the party, which
was held at the Women’s Club. Musical
items were also supplied by pianist Moya
Johnstone and tenor Keith Raymond.
The accompanist was Hazel McGilvray.
MELC€|j£NE
A marquee set in a garden brilliant
with colored fairy-lights and recep-
tion-rooms gay with bowls of multi-
colored gladioli were background for the
happy Christmas-party held at R.A.A.R
Headquarters Mess in St. Kilda-road.
But it was the “Swan. Lake” motif of the
buffet-tables which captured the 300
guests. Graceful swans, fashioned of
margarine, cotton-wool and tissue-paper
and wearing tinsel crowns, sat quietly on
lakes of mirror glass surrounded by
white paper waterlilies dewed with glitter-
ing sequins. Air-Vice-Marshal F. M.
Bladin, with his wife, received the guests,
. Mrs. Bladin wearing a black tie-silk
cocktail-frock striped with royal-blue and
overlaid with blue and grey circles. They
were assisted by the president of the mess
committee, Group-Captain E. Hey, and
Mrs. Hey.
Chief of Air Staff Sir Donald Hardman
and his wife and daughter were present;
so was Air-Marshal George Jones, who
was accompanied by Mrs, Jones in a
black-and-white-check faille frock with
a small black velvet cloche. Three smart
lasses in trim uniforms were Wing-Officer
Doris Carter and Squadron-Officers Lois
Pitman and Mary Peck.
Mrs. Dal Charlton was attractive in a
turquoise-blue velvet coat and tiny pink
feather-hat; Mrs. Eric Hewitt’s choice
was a greige, white-spotted surah frock ;
Mrs. Val Hancock wore dusty-pink
crepe under a fur coat; Mrs, R. L.
Harvey, who was responsible for the
floral decorations, chose a smart black
ensemble. Of black lace and tulle was
Mrs. F. C. Aria’s pretty frock. A dove-
grey taffeta ballerina frock was worn by
Mrs, John Minogue. Mrs. John Davoren
topped her black frock with a musquash
stole. Mrs. R. E. Ellerton wore a toning
flower-hat with her blue-grey shot shan-
tung frock. Mrs. Dean Swift, whose
husband was until recently assistant Air-
Attache at Washington, covered her white
faille frock with a navy faille duster-coat.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. John Carrodus, of South Yarra,
is, with her husband, always among
those present at functions to aid various
chanties. And she is also a working
member of several committees ; among
them those for the Adult Deaf and
Dumb and the South Yarra Auxiliary
for Y-W.C.A. An ardent first-nighter,
Mrs. Can odus has a nine-yeai -old son,
Robert, and a font -year-old daughter,
Suzanne.
The autumn and winter collection of
Ecstasy creations was viewed in the new
Flinders-lane premises of Messrs. W. R.
Hughes Pty., Ltd. Newest trends, in-
corporating overseas designers’ ideas,
were seen in the long-torso middy-line,
the coat-dress, longer hemlines, the redin-
gote (back again in the fashion picture),
and the popular floating side-panels,
From Miki Sekers came the new heavy
silk tweeds used to make attractive suits,
excellent Australian wools were used,
there were several varieties of poodle
cloth and wonderful organzas. There
were also nylons (in the latter group a
glamorous tinsel nylon used for cocktail
frocks), failles woven with gold, satins
and fragile laces for evening-wear.
Cowl-necklines, with a new name, the
“sling”-neckline, are in again and the
sheath-frock, often beaded all over, is used
for afternoon or after-5 p.m. wear. Black
still holds its own, but there was a new
and attractive Carmen-red, and green,
ranging in shades from peacock and deep-
jade to the very newest, “emeraude,” a
very rich emerald. Frocks to rave about
were a short white challis, with strapless
draped bodice beautifully embroidered in
pearls, rhinestones and sequins ; a gold-
starred black organza frock with a halter
neckline and more attractive because it
washes, a wonderful ballgown of pale-
orchid satin with a wide halter neckline.
This, with the rest of the bodice, was
encrusted with embroidery in gold thread,
pearls and pale-pink paillettes. The
very full, flared skirt fell into deep folds
at either side and was also very full at
the back.
Very lovely was a gown called This
Year of Lace. It was made ■'of black
tulle over pink satin with an overskirt
and strapless bodice of black Chantilly
lace, and there was a tiny black lace
bolero. A pink moire faille gown was
topped with a stole which gathered into
cuffs. Coats are not as full as last
season, and several featured shawl collars
which could turn up about the face. A
debutante’s theatre coat was a cosy affair.
It was in turquoise-blue silk-finish poodle
cloth, had batwing sleeves and stand-up
collrr.
☆ ☆ ☆
Cartoonist Sam Wells’s cleverly-
designed invitation to Jennifer Mary
Russell’s birthday-party was only part of
the fun. Jennifer had the garage cleared
out, a splendid covered-in dance-floor
erected in the drive and the garden
decorated with colored fairy-lights. Her
guests, bidden to come in casual clothes,
took their hostess literally ; two young
men and a girl turned up in snowy white
overalls with M.G. lettered in red on the
pocket of the jacket. Jennifer wore a
pretty primrose-yellow tailored linen
frock. Her sister, Mrs. Don Opie, and
her aunt, Mrs. Reg Russell, were a little
more formal in black frocks. The Jack
Steeles came up from Hastings, she in a
grey-and-black-patterned tie-silk ballerina
frock. Mrs. Sam Wells topped her black
frock with a tiny black hat.
Among many friends at the party were
Helen Simpson, attractive in a mauve
linen frock, Pat Downey, whose cotton
frock was a pink-and-white check, Deidre
Neylon, whose coat-frock was of
turquoise-blue velvet, Patricia Gaythorpe,
in gay dirndl skirt and white peasant
blouse, Kay Neville Smith, Ayliffe Booth
and Miriam Rogers with fiance Bryce
Ricker.
Senior vice-president of the Victoria
League, Mrs. Henry Maudsley, was
hostess at the late-afternoon party given
in the League’s reception-rooms to those
who had assisted in the League’s pro-
gramme of events over the year. Among
the guests were Mrs. lan Connell, president
of the Victoria League Club, and Miss
Mary Chomley, 0.8. E., whose service to
the League has been of great assistance
for many years. Other guests were the
John Cassons, Dr. and Mrs. Bowen
Allen, authoress Mary Mitchell, Captain
and Mrs. Charles Burge, Mesdames
Henry Stebbins and C. S. Barclay, Miss
B. Braithwaite, and the president of the
Young' Contingent, Marjorie Tatnall.
# V V
Theatrical people, amateur and pro-
fessional, with their friends, gathered in
full force for the Christmas spree staged
at the Little Theatre by the Little Theatre
Players’ Club and the theatre’s directors.
Guests were warned on the invitation
that they would feel the atomic impact
of the Christmas Punch concocted from
a vicious old recipe handed down through
the family of the Three Weird Sisters,
last seen by Bill Shakspeare on the
blasted heath. They were also offered
an opportunity of performing before
talent scouts “Garnish Barrel” (Garnet
Carroll), “Blank Fate” (Frank Tait), “Ben
Whatsmack” (Kenn Brodziak) and “Red
Handle” (Brett Randall). The punch
was side-stepped by Edwin Styles, who
called in before his appearance in “The
White Sheep of the Family,” and by
Coffins Hilton, also in the play.
Mary McKenzie and Myrtle Woods
were in charge of culinary arrangements,
and guests who enjoyed the fun and
games included the Garnet Carrolls, Mr.
and Mrs. A. T. Smithers, Mrs. Peter
Randall, who bfought her small daughters,
Mrs. B. Hearne and daughter Gillian,
Mrs. Doha Ribush, Irene Mitchell and
Mina Shelley and her husband, Chris
Bailey.


OLlNDA—Victoria
“BIROHLEIQH” —Children’s Guest House.
Children 6-9 years during school holidays.
Other times any age. Spacious gardens
with adequate equipment and supervision.
School near-by for long-term bookings.
MISSES FRASER —Telephone Olinda 80.
TRACTOR
UMBRELLAS
Plain Brown Duck
Covers.
Complete with steel
frame, 3-piece wood
bandies with Tilting
Joint.
sft. spread .... 103/9
sJft. spread ... 117/9
sJft. (3nd qlty) 93/6
6ft. (to order) . .£7/3/6
Post, and Insurance,
4/3 in N.S.W.
or P. 0.8., Sydney.
BEACH
UMBRELLAS
4Jft. to Bft. spread
from 89/11 to £l3/13/-
Q
//i
Keep Cooler
Send for Samples; Prices; Measurement
Sheet for Every Type of Blind
BE READY FOR A HOT SUMMER
568 GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
• *
PTY
LTD.
Dept. “B,”
568 George St.,
Sydney,
N.S.W.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Talkies
“The Importance of Being
Ernest”
Wilde would have liked tech-
nicolor ; it owes so little to
Nature, the only person from
whom he was too proud to
borrow himself ; the technicolor
palette, offering the most deli-
cate of pinks and greens, does
not disdain the most violent
heliotrope, and nor did Wilde ;
and the technicolors have the air
of being applied in clear, bold
and brilliant masses, without
shadows and without depth:
here again was Wilde.
In this, his greatest play,
Montague points out, his comic
genius came to flower ; he sank
his wit, which had previously
been only in the mouths of his
characters, into situations, such
as the girls’ quarrel over an
Ernest who at the same time
represented each of their lovers
and had no existence at all, and
the return to his home of John
Worthing in mourning for the
“Ernest” who had just arrived
to spend a week. Moreover, “All
the early talk of Jack and Alger-
non is quite veracious social por-
traiture. Among a portion of
the comfortable English unem-
ployed, some years ago, there
was current just that vein of
chaff, a special blend of the
knowing and the infantine, a
kind of cynic simpficism.”
They were wicked, those
£lO,OOO-a-year parasites, grind-
ing the faces of the poor, as
Wilde’s contemporary, Shaw,
finally convinced us; but we,
who have changed all that, can
now realise that they made pos-
sible a picture of fife lived with
grace, ease and serenity which is
unique to those times, and has
few equals at the peaks of civi-
lisation, a picture of wonder
and envy to an age whose most
representative production and
symbol of longevity is a Sydney
tram. Our greatest progress has
been to perfect a machine that
will revive for all the art of
Wilde.
It was precisely in the affected
indolence and drawl, the “cynic
simpficism,” of John Worthing
that Michael Redgrave was in-
ferior to John Gielgud in this
part. As Gielgud picked at
bread-and-butter, the astonish-
ing paradoxes sighed gently on
the air; with Redgrave, they
blew the curtains about —he was
much too energetic. Michael
Denison, as Algernon, smiled
more than was consistent with
good-breeding; Joan Green-
wood was too mature for the
Hon. Gwendoline Fairfax —her
duel with Dorothy Tutin, who
made a charming Cecily, was less
an encounter of young girls
than of a sophisticated and
fashionable young city wife with
an 18-year-old country ward.
As Lady Bracknell, Edith
Evans was if anything more im-
pressive on the screen than on
the stage ; and Margaret Ruther-
ford, whom one would not have
remembered to have taken the
part of Miss Prism at “The
Globe” in London in 1939 if the
programme hadn’t said so, was
quite unforgettable in this film,
in the scene where she shrank
away from Lady Bracknell’s
glare with still, staring eyes, like
a crab seeking a crack in a rock
to slide into.
It is a play which invites the
lushest of setting and dressing—
in the London stage production
one remembers a wall of studded
white satin behind the afternoon-
tea party —and here the resources
of film and technicolor have the
stage at a disadvantage: the
sets, the frocking of the women,
and especially Redgrave’s un-
imaginably-sleek funeral - garb
and his superb white-flannel
“tennis-suit,” left nothing to be
desired. All in all, it was a film
which might be said to have bet-
tered a stage-masterpiece—if
they carelessly dropped out a
few of Wilde’s witticisms, that
was also a way he had himself.
(Sydney Lyceum.)
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Greatest Show on
Earth”
This magnificent record of
circus-life leaves all other films
of its- kind back in the kinder-
garten-class. It has such spectacle
that the viewer at times almost
sighs for a temporary respite
from the unrolling splendors and
thrilling aerial and animal acts,
all on a scale possible only to
the combined organisations of
Ringling Bros, and Barnum and
Bailey and Cecil B. de Mille. A
reasonably good plot naturally
plays up the loves, hates and
jealousies allegedly traditional to
circus-life, there is a terrifyingly
realistic train-smash and any
quantity of fascinating docu-
mentary material.
The assembly of the “big top”
which accommodates three rings
is in itself an exciting event. The
task of getting the show “roll-
ing,” of getting order out of the
apparent chaos when the order
comes to move on, is a miracle
of organisation and split-second
timing. The polishing of acts, the
endless experiment with new ones
—these facts have been skilfully
woven into the fictional fabric by
De Mille.
Someone undoubtedly ghosted
for Betty Hutton and Cornel
Wilde as the rival trapeze-artists
battling for the honor of the
centre-ring; but so brilliantly is
this done that it withstands the
searching eye of the camera taken
from every possible angle. The
technicolor is flamboyant, as it
must be to reflect the kalei-
doscopic dressing; the humor is
brisk, the pace a cracker.
Though the film runs for two and
a half hours, there is neve, a
flagging moment.
As the coldly efficient circus-
manager Charles Heston is
authoritative and manly, and
James Stewart is a clown who
never takes off his make-up.
It is a Paramount film, so whom
would you expect to find sitting
together in the circus audience,
popeyed with wonder at all the
princes of the sawdust? Who
indeed but Bob and Bing? At
Sydney Prince Edward.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Montmartre”
This new first half at Sydney
Savoy, where the splendid film
version of Leoncavallo’s
“Pagliacci” is still proving a
magnet for opera-lovetrs, is a
sort of Cook’s-tour of Paris’s
artistic centre. Photographed in
nicely-judged color, it gives an
engaging account of the art
colony’s bohemian habitues, its
ballet and art-classes, the
nocturnal gaiety, historic associa-
tions, etc., taken by a photo-
grapher who is a master of his
art.
Stage and Music
New Mercury Shows
Sydney Mercury has added
Molnar’s “The Guardsman” and
Maxwell Anderson’s “Winterset”
to its repertoire, and it seemed
to this commentator that all was
not well with either production.
“ILe Guardsman” —that tale of
an actor who, suspecting his
wife’s fidelity, impersonates a
Russian officer and makes
passionate love to her, then, like
the audience, cannot tell whether
or not she saw through the
impersonation, and was playing
with her husband or succumbing
to the soldier —is, after all, some-
thing to be tossed around lightly
and gracefully in a state of
sparkling effervescence.
Nigel Lovell’s production for
the Mercury bubbled and boiled,
but never quite sparkled ; it had
life and vigor and fun, but rarely
grace and wit. Possibly, Alick
McKenzie’s florid sets were a
little too oppressive; and,
possibly, the leading players, who
gave the production its com-
pensations, also left out the
essentials.
Lovely as she was to look at,
Muriel Steinbeck brought a
categorical quality to her acting ;
statements of emotion that
seemed too definite and left no
room for subtleties and specula-
tion, so that the essential,
delightful question of “Did she
know, or didn’t she?” never
really arose. Likewise, Alan
White, as the actor, roared and
postured and bared his soul with
great gusts of emotion. It
served, but it was a little too
heavy for the spirit of the piece ;
for the best effect, something
with less noisy flourish and more
edgy nerviness was needed.
That, of course, is only the
opinion of one member of the
audience; on the same night
every other member demon-
strated his or her view by clap-
ping and cheering until the
assembled cast grinned like
Cheshire cats. And why
shouldn’t they what other
opinion is worth a hoot?
Similar embarrassments arise
out of Robin Lovejoy’s produc-
tion of “Winterset”—though
here the production was better
conceived, more fluent and more
faithfully set to the spirit of the
play. The play itself, of course,
is pretentious, and, where
economy is the essence of poetry,
too wordy ; and, in line, situation
and character, it calls rather
often on Shakspeare.
Still, Lovejoy’s production
passed over those things fairly
comfortably and held well to the
story of the young man—“a cry
from a shallow grave”—who
comes to the slums on a New
York waterfront seeking to vindi-
cate a father wrongly executed
for murder years earlier, and, in
finding the judge who sentenced
him, the real murderer and the
only other witness, also finds love
and death for himself.
It is hardly a great tragedy,
and therefore hardly a great
statement on the corruption of
justice, but Lovejoy achieved a
chill, clammy note of inevitability
that was quite effective. He was
well-served by Paul Mc-
Naughton’s gangster who moved
through the piece like a cold
shadow of death, and by Lionel
Stevens’s judge gone mad from
the knowledge that he executed
an innocent man.
On the other hand, Barry
Cookson as the young man in
search pf the truth seemed rather
fresh out of school; his fines
came too much like ringing
speeches, and he seemed less con-
vinced than trying to convince
himself of the passions that drove
him. There was a dull poignancy
about Gloria Payten as the girl
who dies with him by walking
into a burst from a tommy-gun,
and there were moments of quiet
humility in Ivon Vander’s
portrayal of her - old father,
whose son is the one surviving
witness of the earlier crime—
though Vander lost a lot of the
poetry in his fines by giving them
too much wisdom and not
enough feeling.
It was a pity that the perform-
ances were uneven and not quite
up to what was really quite an
ambitious production, well and
effectively mounted in imagina-
tive sets —it was a pity, too, that
the tommy-gun bursts were such
weak recordings or imitations,
when the terrible sound of that
weapon could have been used so
wonderfully to slash across the
end of the story.
Still, once again, all that is
only one view, and once
again, it was so thoroughly dis-
counted by the rest of the audi-
ence at the final curtain that the
clapping and applause rang like
castigation of one’s own
opinions.
+♦♦ ❖ ***
“Annie Get Your Gun”
Dead-shot Evie Hayes, accom-
panied by her juvenile cohorts,
has whooped back on to the
stage of Sydney Royal for a
revival. Full of blithe spirits,
boisterous, flamboyant and alto-
gether likeable, “Annie” just
can’t miss ; and that applies with
equal force to the musicomedy
itself.
After all, it has all the ingre-
dients to make it the best musical
since “Rose Marie” —whistleable
tunes, wittily-worded lyrics,
good comedy, colorful charac-
ters and settings and excellent
dancing sequences.
Hayes Gordon leaves no doubt
whatever of Frank Butler’s mas-
culinity, and he storms Annie’s
affections and throws his full-
blooded baritone around with
equal vigor. Alec Kellaway’s
Sitting Bull is a capital blend of
ponderous lugubriety and im-
passivity,
The first night of the current
season was the company’s 1269th
performance. Going by the keen-
ness injected into their work by
cast, chorus and the orchestra
under Leo Packer, it might
instead have been the premiere,
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Lazzaro”
The Independent Theatre is
presenting Pirandello’s “LazZaro”
for the first time in Australia —
an event which should be of
some theatrical importance, but
which proves to be merely
another amateur performance,
unevenly and amateurishly
performed.
The theme of “Lazzaro” is the
lofty one of the nature of faith
and its relationship to the
demands of the living. Above all
it needs maturity and subtlety in
its handling, neither of which is
apparent in this production. The
central character, Diego Spina, as
played by Eric Starling, has a
vigorous intensity which is
matched by the vitality of
Margaret Roberts as his wife
Sara. But their very forcefulness,
lacking judgment, becomes, in the
part of Spina, ranting melodrama
and gives to Sara a hardness
which rebuffs sympathy.
Charles Walmsley, as the son
who loses, seeks and regains his
faith through his father’s restora-
tion from the grave, gave a per-
formance in the earlier part sug-
gestive of deep, bewildered suffer-
ing, but he was too pale and wan
to be convincing as a miracle-
worker of reanimated, burning
faith.
With the exception of Olga
Yarad, who made Deodata a
credible character, the rest of the
cast is quite unimpressive, gauche
in gesture and deportment. The
translation of the play from the
Italian has been done by Miss
Phyllis H. Raymond, whose
learned notes on its implications
serve mainly to show up the limi-
tations of this presentation. A
good word should be said, how-
ever, for the exquisite lighting
effect and the vivid clear-cut
decor by Desmonde Downing.
Artbursts
If one hasn’t already seen all
the paintings now on exhibition
at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, one has at least seen
others so like them that the dif-
ferences don’t matter—Lloyd
Rees’s patterned “Ryde Land-
scape,” Roland Wakelin’s warm
“Evening at Richmond,” and
Douglas Watson’s “English Back-
yards,” Even Drysdale’s large
“Siesta” looks like much-
worked territory. The one excep-
tion is Dobell’s unfinished “The
Thatchers” from New Guinea —
a pattern of gleaming dark bodies
against green which seems to fall
somewhere between fact and
fancy and seems, oddly, to have
something vaguely sinister about
it.


THE PRINGLE
MENACE
by M.G vincent
THE problem of Mr. Pringle
did not obtrude itself for
almost a month after Miss
Hemperton’s appointment
to the staff of Kemp, Kintillock
and Co. Pty., Ltd,, Advertising
Agents,
Miss Hemperton, who became
Mr. Kintillock’s twentieth secre-
tary, was chosen from ten appli-
cants for three reasons: Firstly,
she had an excellent reference
from a large provincial daily,
and Mr. Kintillock had a very
soft spot for any country paper,
be it large or small; secondly,
she was neat without being dis-
tractedly smart, and comely
without having that attraction
which disturbs domestic peace,
(Mr. Kintillock’s previous secre-
tary had caused far too much
jealous inference.) And thirdly,
because she was in her mid-
thirties Mr. Kintillock felt that
there was a reasonable chance of
his retaining her services for as
long as he chose.
He told himself he was fed to
the neck of salesmen drooling at
his door, and hectic five-o’clock
rushes because some gallant was
looking at his watch in the foyer.
He was done with glamor. After
a couple of weeks he decided that
Alistair Graham was the only
male in his ken he had to worry
about, and after three weeks he
was able to forget Graham, who
obviously was intimidated by the
aloof efficiency of the admirable
Miss Hemperton. Kintillock had
a pretty shrewd idea that Miss
Hemperton was very much
tempted to relax her vigilance
against the predatory male when-
ever Graham was about, but to
his relief she did not succumb.
In time he forgot his fear.
Miss Hemperton was diminu-
tive. She was a fraction over
five feet, and weighed a few
pounds over seven stone. She
had fair hair, and her eyes were
deep-blue with large, shining
pupils. In her expression there
was that restraint which comes
after bitterness has been van-
quished. Mr. Kintillock called it
“the frosted-window look.”
Like most small people she
was inclined to be dictatorial,
and although this was tempered
by a genuine desire to please an
esteemed employer, it soon
became clear to Mr. Kintillock
that his days of slipping un-
pleasant correspondence under
the blotting-paper were at an
end ; that is, unless he sacked
her. This thought did occur to
him ; but he found to his surprise
that he enjoyed trying to outwit
her adroit manoeuvring, and it
was a relief to know that here at
last was someone he could not
intimidate.
He was a crotchety person,
and perverse, as is usually the
case with such people, so that
often he had felt himself com-
pelled to goad his former
secretaries beyond endurance.
Their meek acceptance of his ill-
temper had infuriated him, and
in spite of the reproaches of his
kind heart he had submitted to
that whim to torture which all
self-abnegation invites. There
were no: tears to be drawn from
Miss Hemperton. “Thank God,”
thought Mr. Kintillock.
After two weeks he gave up
all attempts to slip anything
under the blotter, and retained
only his right to wear his tie
knotted half-way round to his
shoulder, be rude to all friends
and acquaintances, and grumble
about his golf and his
indigestion.
“She’s a blasted slavedriver,”
he would mutter if any of his
cronies came in whilst he was
giving the morning’s dictation.
From his pocket he would drag
out his watch on its interminable
chain and glare at it. “Half-past
ten! When are you going to let
me off? I have to see that
fatuous Colchester. He had the
audacity, to say if I was at
Mockbell’s at half-past ten he’d
show me how to follow through.
Fatuous fool!”
Quietly but firmly Miss
Hemperton would reply: “Well,
just before you go, Mr, Kin-
tillock, there’s that matter
of ... ”
This enjoyable game went on
till it became routine. Mr.
Kintillock relaxed as he had
always dreamed of doing “some
day,” and happily watched Miss
Hemperton become the master
of a puppet-show. Sitting calmly
at her desk she pulled a thread
here, waggled a thread there, so
that business went on without a
hitch. All Mr. Kintillock had to
do was get new clients and hold
old ones (which he enjoyed) and
dictate letters, which had become
a pleasure.
~THEN one day Miss
1 Hemperton had the
indecency to unearth the Pringle
Problem. Like most things, it
came about very simply. The
Jolisson appropriation had come
up for its annual review. Mr.
Kintillock had “whacked it up,”
as he termed it, between Press
and radio, with a leaning towards
Press. Contracts had been made
out and schedules drawn up.
These all came into his office at
eleven one Wednesday morning.
With repugnance he regarded the
two wire-trays piled high.
“What in the name of blazes,”
he demanded, “is all this tripe?”
The typist dropped the baskets
on his table, and, with a flustered
look at the cool Miss Hemper-
ton, withdrew. Mr. Kintillock
bent over and stared at the top
sheet as though he were examin-
ing a germ. “This is a plot! ”he
cried peevishly. “No, you
needn’t think you’re going to put
an end to my Wednesday golf.
Let the biggest account in
Christendom break under my
nose and I’ll still go to golf.
Is that clear?”
She smiled. “You just sign
them. It’ll only take you a
minute if I blot them as you do
them. Then I’ll go through them
carefully, and if any need your
attention I’ll hold them over till
the morning.”
So Miss Hemperton went
through the baskets. In time she
came to the “Quenton Advo-
cate” contract and discovered
that no schedule had been
attached. She went out to the
typist. “This ‘Quenton Advo-
cate,’ ” she said. “There is no
schedule for the Jolisson adver-
tising.”
“Yes, Miss Hemperton.”
“Just do one for me, and let
me have it before lunch.”
“But we nevah give the
‘Advocate’ a skeduel,” explained
the typist languorously.
“Why on earth?”
“Well, I don’t knoah achshally.
Miss Hemperton. We just
don’t.”
Looking exasperated, Miss
Hemperton went to the senior
girl, who had been with the firm
for more years than she cared
to remember. “Why aren’t
schedules sent to the ‘Quentori
Advocate’?” she asked.
“Because it’s no use, Miss
Hemperton.”
Miss Hemperton, who felt that
her preciously budgeted time
was being criminally wasted, said
irritably “That conveys precisely
nothing to me. Why isn’t it any
use?”
The senior typist seemed un-
willing to disturb the skeleton
in the agency cupboard.
“Look,” she said, flushing a
Ijttle. ‘if you’ll take my advice
you’ll just leave things as they
are. Mr. Pringle, that’s the pro-
prietor of the ‘Advocate,’ is just
impossible I mean about
schedules and things like that.
Two or three years ago we gave
up the struggle and since then
life has been a lot easier.”
Miss Hemperton instantly
became Mr. Pringle’s adversary.
She said tartly “All the other
papers accept schedules. Who is
Mr. Pringle that he should refuse
them?”
The girl sighed. “Mr. Pringle
is a law unto himself,” she said.
“Look here. If you want the
full story, you better get the boy
to dig out the ‘Advocate’ file-
now just let me see —I’m sure
Mr. Kintillock kept it. He said
he couldn’t bear to part with it.
He said he’d bottle it like a
gangrene appendix for posterity.
You know how Mr. Kintillock
talks! Oh, I don’t suppose that
stupid kid’ll be able to find it. I
think I know where it is. I’ll
find it and send it in.”
A quarter of an hour later
the boy brought the file to Miss
Hemperton. “You might have
dusted it,” she criticised.
“A bit of dust won’t kill you,”
said the boy, who was one of
that happy generation who
knows no respectful subser-
vience. Whistling joyfully, he
withdrew, leaving Miss Hem-
perton to her gravesnatching.
DEING Miss Hemperton, she
' opened the file at its first
letter. Her avid eyes fastened on
the first sentence:
“Don’t waste any more of my
time sending me diatribes about
ruddy schedules. I’m running a
newspaper not a set of pigeon-
holes. The contract says 52
Sin. d.c. ads. There are four Sin.
d.c. stereos. Very well. They’ll
be rotated. You’ll be charged
according to rate-card. I’ll give
you the best possible position if
I’m left in peace. Any more of
these damnfool ‘According to
our schedule Serial No. ABC
1234 should have appeared on
April 1, and we note that Serial
No. XYZ 789 appeared on April
2 and I’ll stick your next ad.
above funeral notices. What a
position for a health food ! Why
don’t you go out and get more
business instead of trying to
impress your secretary with your
efficiency ? You’re nothing but
a blasted seat-warmer. With
love. P.1.P.”
Shocked, Miss Hemperton
stared at the sprawling, green
ink-splashed initials. In all her
experience she had never been
confronted with such a business-
letter. “He must be a maniac,”
she thought, and turned to the
next letter. This was soothing.
It followed the recognised
pattern.
“Dear Mr. Pringle," it said.
“We regret that our scheduling
system has caused you incon-
venience, but we must stress the
importance of strictly adhering
to it. There are twenty-one
papers which are participating in
this advertising, and we have
received no complaints from
them. It would be impossible for
us to keep a check on the adver-
tising if we agreed to a general
principle of laissez-faire."
The reply to this apparently
came by return post and was
brief.
“Laissez - faire be b .
Buzz off"
There were six letters after
this ; all from the agency. They
dealt with dif-
ferent accounts,
but all con-
cerned schedules.
Apparently no
replies had been
received, and it
was obvious
from these let-
ters that Mr.
Pringle was
playing old
Harry with all schedules. Then
came the veiled threat:
“We regret that your inclusion
in future appropriations is being
jeopardised by your regrettable
attitude to schedules. We find
it difficult to understand the
reason for your antipathy. The
schedules are perfectly straight-
forward, and if you kept separate
files for bi-weekly, weekly, fort-
nightly, monthly, etc., it should
be a simple matter to hang these
in a handy place so that it Would
be a matter of minutes to check
up each issue what advertising
was to be included and what
blocks were to be used. As we
have pointed out before, there is
not another newspaper which has
complained to us about our
system of scheduling. We are
afraid we must ask you to adhere
to them.”
A letter dated a month later
read :
“With reference to our
previous communication of the
Ist inst., we should be glad to
have a reply by return of post as
our filing-clerk reports that our
schedules are still being ignored.
This is an important matter, as
we have to keep faith with our
clients, and we must ask you to
give it your personal attention.”
The reply was dated three
weeks later.
“Are you entering on the first
stage of senile decay? Your
letters stink; that is if sawdust
in cellophane can stink. I can’t
stomach them so I shove ’em
into the w.p.b. Do you de-
compose them or are they per-
petrated by some sickly blonde,
ancemic from a diet of adulter-
ated schedules ? I’ve told you
before to steer away from
blondes. I’m paying one alimony
and keeping another, so I should
know. I’ll be down to the con-
ference. How’s the beer at the
corner pub ? If I have any time
to spare from my professional
commitments ( how’s that?) I’ll
be sampling, the grog there. Is
that sultry barmaid still spitting
in the froth ? I swear that set
of teeth of hers’ll land in my
mug the day I tell her the joke
about the jester. I’ve been saving
it up for six months. Don’t
forget it’ll be a fiver you’ll owe
me.”
A short letter from Mr. Kin-
tillock followed.
“In future kindly mark your
envelope with a big personal.
My new secretary, who is young,
demure and beautifully
Brunette, does not appreciate
your original style. May I make
a personal appeal ? Stick to the
damn’ schedules. You’ll be
losing half a dozen contracts if
you don’t mend your ways. At
Mockbell’s the other day the con-
sensus of opinion was that you
are going from bad to worse and
are more nuisance than you’re
worth. Yours sincerely, Kinty.”
“p.S. The barmaid is still
there, but she has a new set.”
“Don’t kid yourself,” was the
reply* “ I'll come down and get
the flaming stuff direct, and do
you out of your pound of flesh,
you Shylocks. Bloody parasites.
Running around like beetles in
a manure-heap. Drawing up
schedules to pretend you’re earn-
ing your dough. Why,
I could write a better
ad. myself than that
tasteless blancmange
you dish out about
blackcurrant desert.
Even Oliver T wist
wouldn’t ask for
more. I wouldn’t soil
my lips with it. Tough
luck about the teeth,
old boy. Wish I’d
known the story last
time I was down. It would
have been adnch to collect that
fiver. Love, P 1.P.”
“p.S. Hope the 'personal’ is
big enough. If you ask me it’ll
take more than a ‘personal’ to
keep a woman’s nose out. I’ll
stick a joke in next time. That
should do the trick.”
'T'HIS was the final letter. Mis
* Hemperton, in spite of he
mounting anger and disgus
against the irrepressible P.I.P.
admitted that her curiosity wa
piqued. She felt as though she
had been enticed to read a story
in a magazine, understanding i
was to be a decisive short-story
and finding that it was a serial.
She took the file back to the
head typist. “Very interesting,’
she said scathingly. “He seems
a particularly obnoxious sort of
person.”
“Oh, no,” cried the girl
instantly. “He’s a dear little
chap. A bit uncomfortable to
have around. You know, one of
those persons who bursts into
rooms and gets the place in an
uproar in a few seconds. He’s
a bit of a menace, really. Worse
than any of the radio men. A lot
of them are mad as hatters, or
try to make out they are ; but if
you get .them one at a time
they’re pretty harmless. But Mr.
Pringle! If anyone says don’t
—he does. And you sort of like
it somehow. And you’ve no
idea what he’s going to do next.
I don’t think he knows himself.
“I’ll just tell you an example.
One day he came in here and
we were all tired-out and cranky.
It was a rotten day, hot and
sticky. Well, he just stood there”
(pointing to the switch-girl's
desk) “and looked at us. ‘What
you all need is a Southerly
Buster,’ he said, ‘and if old Kinty
is too lousy to do his duty I’m
not.’ Off he went, doors banging
in all directions. Ten minutes
later he was back followed by
two drink-waiters from the
Beltone —you know, across the
park. ‘Old Southerly Buster,
your forces you muster,’ he cried,
standing like Napoleon. ‘Hand
them around, boys. Drink them
up, girls. They’ll pick you up.
I mixed them myself,’ he said.
And as they were handed around
he went through the poem. He
was pretty good, too. Well, there
was a little kid just from college.
She’d never had anything
stronger than cordial in her life,
and she got the giggles before
she even started on it. And in
the middle of it all Mr. Jolisson
walked in. Mr. Jolisson, mind
you!
“And Mr. Pringle got as
solemn as an owl and ushered
him into Mr. Kintillock’s room
as though he owned the place.
Ten minutes later he was
shepherding Mr. Jolisson out of
the place, talking as though he
were Mr. Black giving a news-
commentary. As he passed the
telephone-desk he planked ten
shillings in front of the girl—
we didn’t have Katie then —and
said to buy a cream-cake for the
girls. When she lifted the note,
o Continued on page 22)


| The massive bulk of No. 3
blast furnace (on left) towers
; over the other two furnaces
at the A.I.S. Kcmbla Works.
■
it
■
■
r.
■ ... ••
■
illiii
: - jiK
iptt ;lk J"r % r -.
t• r ; * -
m i ,• -
ill iwnmimiiniiwJte
r.
j f
V. ;w
■
11
■ S-" . Es.
PF
■
y>- ■
“t¥uP
Si
I v<; .
¥
■K
'£■ M-
w.;
,- =P ,-V
■ 11
*- ,
s&sv- ■
. , '- v . ;
-
>'
M
■■• -
* y
. §M
I 1
'■4
J ’ ?V
. -V 7 fs> i
pFT *
V- ;j
:
%
-
18
J
l'\ 1
4'- ; “2
.? ■- ?
■i
4
%
."Jr
:
■ ;-r , \
4 -4:r
:#:rti
™™ ; 444-„:v4444:
S-:
fl
Hi
Wl
I
4 4
;,',4:*4
4'-:,4
u
,4
Above: Charging-side view
of the new No. 3 blast
furnace.
At left: Seventeen-
ton bell-like com-
ponent of the furnace
charging mechanism
being hoisted into
position (some 200
feet above ground) by
the furnace crane.
Members of the erec-
tion gang are hauling
in the slack of a guy
rope.
Kemblas Giant New
Blast Furnace
INDUSTRIAL history was made at the Kembla Works of
Australian Iron & Steel Ltd. on Wednesday, August 27,
1952, when the No. 3 blast furnace was lit for the first time,
A giant by world standards, the new furnace is capable
of producing 1,500 tons of pig iron per day. It stands 228
feet high, and 7,000 tons of steel, 20,000 tons of concrete,
and 10,000 tons of special bricks were used in its construction
which began in December, 1948.
The furnace is practically wholly Australian in material
and construction, the exceptions being the special bricks used
for lining the furnace and certain electrical equipment
(obtained from England) and the turbo-blower obtained from
Switzerland.
No. 3 blast furnace’s completion is but one of many steps
in the steel industry’s vast plan of development for the A.I.S.
Kembla Works. The plan will result in Port Kembla
becoming one of the world’s most modern and comprehensive
iron and steel producing centres.
AUSTRALIAN IRON & STEEL LIMITED
FABRICATING WORKS: Alexandra, N.S.W.,
and South Melbourne, Victoria.
Head Office; 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
IHO A AND STEEL WORKS, PORT KEMRLA, M.S.W.


Do you like an
‘independent ’ spirit?
.'V*V
e T 7Jk
BELtS
niiiMiniivmiM
imimnti) ui' l ""'.,,,ii>
iuiiikiiii im ' t,, “ A;
DISTILLERS ««TH SCO,,
KU»ltni»7.l“ llu
PRODUCT y,
Our subject is whisky.
By which, of course, we
mean Scotch whisky. It is
generally agreed that
Scotland is the home of
good whisky. From
Scotland come all those
famous, world-known
whiskies.
To be precise, our subject
is one of the few remaining
independent
Scotch whiskies. In fact we
want to tell you about
ourselves. We are Bell’s,
independent distillers
since 1825.
Perth is our home town.
Whisky is our pride.
And, man, what whisky!
If you’ve a nose on you to
relish the subtle
smokiness of superlative
Scotch whisky; if you’ve a
tongue that can taste the
years of maturing; if
your palate can appreciate
the blending of many
dlstilllngs to make
a perfect whole —if, in a
word, whisky is to you the
heart of the Highlands, its
barley-fields and peat
and moors, its glens and
tumbling burns—
you’re the very man for
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS Perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED ||2f
An Ideal
Christmas
Gift—
“ The Letters
of
Rachel
77
Henning
Illustrated by Norman
Lindsay with over 40
superb pen-drawings
Price, 7/6
•
Obtainable at bookshops, or
at “The Bulletin” offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or
Sydney. Or post-free from
The Book Department
“The Bulletin”
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
.
NrS’S s «5* s ,
H
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY
Telegrams;
“Esdailson,”
Sydney.
BW 8631.
Esdaile's 2ix
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
9 Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
• Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable to
highest power rifles.
9 Very long eye relief.
Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
ion 2jX —Eye relief 3*®-
o siin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 28ft. P ei
100 yards.
there was his notebook under it,
open. He’d written in it some-
thing like this: ‘For God’s sake
ring the Beltone and ask for
Bert. Tell him I’m on my way
with precious cargo. And what-
ever I ask for to be sure and
bring lemonade straight’.”
She paused for a moment, and
then said thoughtfully, “I often
wondered if Mr. Jolisson ever
tried one on his own bat. Some-
how I don’t think he could have,
because whenever he does come
in he always asks have we seen
Mr, Pringle lately. In fact,
though I’m not sure, I think
he went up there and went trout-
fishing. I think it was Mr.
Jolisson. X know for sure Mr.
Waltherson has been up there
shooting quail and brush-turkeys
and heaven knows what. And
Mr. Tonkin went up there to
try the golf-course. And Mr.
Wetherspoon went up to see the
scenery. That’s the funny part
about Mr. Pringle. He talks
nearly all the time, and yet he
seems to find out what people
are most interested in and once
he finds out he gives it to them.”
“He’s apparently a low type,”
stated Miss Hemperton, who had
not smiled once during the re-
cital. She flicked the file. “This
better go back if Mr. K.’s so
fond of it. Personally I think
it should be destroyed.”
SHE thought a lot about Mr.
Pringle between then and
the next morning. She placed
the “Quenton Advocate” con-
tract, which she had held back,
on top of the letters on Mr.
Kintillock’s desk.
“Dear Father in Heaven,”
breathed Mr. Kintillock, as he
levered himself into his chair.
He clapped his hand to his fore-
head. “What’s this contract
doing here? Now, don’t mention
Pringle’s name to me. I can’t
stand it. It gives me the ague.
What’s wrong with the infernal
contract anyway?”
“Nothing.”
“Well, why hasn’t it gone with
the others?”
“Because I wanted to ask you
about a schedule for the
‘Advocate,’ Do you think it is
reasonable that he should be
allowed to dictate to 'the
advertisers?”
“Reasonable! Of course I
don’t. But if it comes to that,
what is reasonable about
Pringle?”
“Well, then, why don’t you
insist that he abides by them?”
Mr. Kintillock closed his eyes.
“What have I done to deserve
this?” he whispered, “Here I
come in, exhausted after my
colossal battle of the fairways
yesterday, wounded in pride,
drained of optimism for the
future, and you have the
audacity to confront me with —
Pringle.” He opened his eyes
and leaned forward towards the
unmoved Miss Hemperton.
“Don’t try to regiment Pringle!
That’s all I ask. Pin me to this
desk like an insect to a specimen-
board, but try and be satisfied
with that victory. I’m telling
you, if you start meddling with
Pringle you’ll be sorry.”
All Miss Hemperton said was
“I read his file yesterday.”
“Ha!” cried Kintillock.
“Entertainment during office
hours. I thought you were here
picking your brains for the good
of the firm, and all you were
doing was salivering over the
skeletons.”
Miss Hemperton said clearly:
“He’s a disgrace to his profes-
sion. He should be taught a
lesson. Why don’t you take up
the matter with the association?
I am sure they would not coun-
tenance such behavior. They
are all gentlemen of integrity and
sound business sense. But Mr.
Pringle ...”
“Miss Hemperton,’-’ Kintillock
interrupted earnestly, “you don’t
‘take Mr. Pringle up.’ He’s like
quicksilver. And although he’s
a blasted little nuisance, he’s a
decent chap, and he’s one of the
cleverest journalists that’s ever
put pen to paper. He might not
conform to your standards, but
when you get down to bedrock
he’s no disgrace to any profes-
sion. He certainly doesn’t belong
to the modern school of news-
paper proprietors, who live up
to, or try to live up to, a high
social standard. Pringle belongs
to the old flamboyant age of
journalism when eccentricity was
hallowed, and it’s not his fault
that that age is practically past.
You look at his paper. Ten
years ago it was a rag with a
circulation of four-hundred.
Today it’s got an audited
circulation of six-thousand in.a
wealthy district. He gives us a
good run for our money pro-
vided we don’t bother him with
schedules.”
Miss Hemperton still stuck to
her guns. “And where would
we be if all the papers chose to
adopt his attitude?”
“You needn’t worry about
that. There isn’t another one
of them, as far as I know, who
would make such an ass of
himself.”
Miss Hemperton, obviously
thinking of the big daily, said
“I should hope not. I had no
idea such a person as Mr.
Pringle could exist outside an
asylum, let alone run a news-
paper.”
“Let’s leave it at that,”
mumbled Mr. Kintillock. “Any-
rate, I haven’t time to be indulg-
ing in idle chit-chat. I have an
appointment with Bolger. He’s
going to try and unwind me.”
He looked miserable, but only
he knew that this was because
he felt convinced that the temp-
tation to engage in battle would
be too much for Miss Hem-
perton and that the Pringle
Menace would be unleashed
once more.
OF course he was right.
After that episode. Miss
Hemperton kept the “Quenton
Advocate” under surveillance.
She found, to her chagrin, that
it was a good paper. It was well
printed ; the advertisements were
placed well; there was always
plenty of news and articles of
topical interest. Miss Hemperton
even read some of the leading
articles and the reports of
functions and meetings, and
despite the fact that people men-
tioned were mere names she was
forced to admit that this was
more than the reporting of
incidents and problems: Here
was the personal appeal of a
well-written essay. There: was
nothing slothful or dull. But
instead of winning her admira-
tion it served only to rile her.
One day she came across a
photo of the local bowlers and
glanced idly at it. The central
person attracted her. She looked
at him for a while, almost smiling
at him. He was small and plump
—tubby, his small round face
crinkled with a boyish grin. He
was leaning forward slightly, his
hands on his knees, his elbows
thrust out. “He looks like an
urchin,” she thought. “I wonder
who he is.” She checked the
names. It was Phillip I.
Pringle! Instantly she was angry
and folded the paper, slapping it
down on the desk. It was as
though he had deliberately tried
to trick her into friendliness.
“He needn’t try to put over his
charm with me,” she thought,
pledging herself to ruthless
slaughter as soon as he could be
inveigled into combat.
At last her chance arrived.
The Vellem contract expired on
September 30. It had called for
fifty-two advertisements. In the
“Advocate” only fifty-one had
appeared. The fifty - second
appeared on October 5. Miss
Hemperton immediately brought
this before Mr. Kintillock. He
looked at her for a moment or
so. Then he said dryly “Well,
you’ve been patient. I must
give you that.”
She flushed. “If every paper
did this sort of thing, where
would we be? If the radio-
stations all decided to play fast
and loose with schedules, too.
There’d be chaos everywhere.”
“True. True.” He tilted back-
wards and forwards in his swivel
chair, staring thoughtfully at his
desk. Suddenly he slipped to
his feet. “I leave it entirely in
your hands,” he said, and there
was a glimmer of laughter in his
eyes. “You’ve been dying to
cross swords with Pringle for
six months. Well, here’s your
chance. But I’m warning you.
You can take the consequences.
Leave me right out of this. I’ve
had my battles, and I still bear
the scars. But who am I to
prevent you having yours?”
MISS HEMPERTON wrote
a very businesslike letter
stating the facts and concluding :
“We therefore have no alterna-
tive but to deduct this amount.”
Pringle’s reply was prompt.
“Dear old Kinty, I see you’ve
got a new secretary. You must
be losing your punch, son; she’s
got you under her thumb. Now
she has designs on me. I’ll be
down early next month to give
her a chance to complete the
job. Tell her to put on her
amour. Try deducting that
amount and see what happens.
Love, P.I.P.
p.s. I bet she’s man-starved.
p.p.s. Been a bit crook lately.
Have had to cut down my intake
by half.”
Mr. Kintillock flipped the
letter over to Miss Hemperton.
“There you are, my dear,” he
said benevolently. “He’s all
yours.” He had blissfully over-
looked the first p.s. ; but not so
Miss Hemperton: it rankled in
her mind for many a day.
A few weeks later, on a bright
spring morning, Mr. Kintillock
arrived at the office in a very
grumpy mood. “That blasted
fool of a Pringle got me out of
bed at five this morning to ask
what were your favorite flowers.
I hope that gives you an indica-
tion of what you’re in for. And
let me tell you I think you
deserve the lot.” He looked very
aggrieved. “Five o’clock! As
soon as his train hit Central.
What does he think I am —a
blanky sparrow!”
He pottered around the office
for a while and then announced
“I’m getting out while the going’s
good, and if he asks where I am
you can say I won’t be back
today, tomorrow or any day this
week. I’ve gone to Bourke, Tim-
buctoo or Korea, or you can
put me in a sanitorium for my
liver.”
After he had gone, Miss
Hemperton stood for some time
at the window looking down into
the park. The oaks were gar-
landed with tightly-furled posies
of green. It seemed incredible
that this mist of crimped bobbles
held enthralled for a few days
the broad flat fans that lured the
summer breezes and held them
high above the stifling street.
Looking at them, Miss Hem-
perton did not think of summer,
but was reminded of the spring
twenty years before when under
an oak she had been almost per-
suaded to surrender. For per-
haps the hundredth time she
asked herself the unanswerable
question: Would she have lost
him to the girl with the doting-
doe eyes if she had been more
co-operative? It was certain the
doting-doe had refused him
nothing, and last time she had
seen them they had seemed
happily married. Was virtue its
own reward? Miss Hemperton
asked herself. At thirty-seven she
was inclined to suspect that, like
so many rewards, it was rather
pitifully inadequate.
In a somewhat bitter mood,
she went back to her desk.
About eleven o’clock the
telephonist rang through to say
“You’ve got a visitor on his way.
He’s bearing gifts. He said
would you open the door as he
hasn’t a spare hand.”
“Why can’t Ted come and
open it?” demanded Miss Hem-
perton tartly. She had slogged
the typewriter keys ferociously
for over an hour, and had found
no sublimation. She now felt
tired and dispirited as well as
bitter. She went to the door and
opened it.
Of course it was Mr. Pringle.
She knew that at once although
she could see very little of him
above the tremendous bouquet
except his blue eyes, earnest and
wistful, and his broad bulging
forehead scored deep with
innumerable wrinkles. She was
reminded of a schoolboy deter-
mined to keep a grave face
whilst handing the master a trick
gift. . ..
“A peace offering, he said.
She took the flowers because
there was nothing else to do, as
when she stepped back they were
advanced till they tickled hei'
chin. He handed her a box. To
be taken at four-hourly intervals
or as required.”
He then walked in and sat


mi
m
si®!
iiSil
iiiiiii
s ®
SSS
■
. M
SS®
s*
Si®;
1
wmm
HH
m
m
Time’s right . . film’s right . .
nil set for some fine indoor
snapshots. Be sure you keep
a permanent photographic
record of your youngster as
he grows up; in the years
ahead you’ll find hours of
pleasure in your album,
when you use KODAK FILM
‘it gets the picture’
§s§=>
m
v t}
iv.u
KF673
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
down in Mr. Kintillock’s chair.
“New one, isn’t it?” he
He spun round and
round in it as though it were a
merry-go-round. Then he con-
verted it into a rocking-chair.
“Where’d he get it, d’you
know?” He got out of the chair,
tipped it back and inspected it
closely. “Strong, too. Not likely
to snap at a moment’s notice.”
He sat down again. “Just what
I need. Where is the old hob-
nailed liver anyway?”
\A ISS HEMPERTON put the
box and flowers on a chair.
“Mr. Pringle,” she said slowly.
“Yes, my love,” said Mr.
Pringle, leaning forward. All of
a sudden there was the urchin
with the bright eager eyes and
the confident friendly grin.
“Mr. Pringle,” said Miss
Hemperton again, looking away
from his because she found him
disconcerting. Before she could
continue he said “Do you like
pigeons, my love?”
Miss Hemperton sat down at
her desk. Regarding him over
the bulwark of her typewriter she
put a few mental pins in her
business mantle, drawing it
firmly about her. She was
instantly like a nun looking
guardedly from the shelter of her
veil,
“I have a great deal to do,
Mr. Pringle,” she said politely.
“But before you go I’d be very
pleased if we could settle this
little matter about the Vellem
advertising and the schedules.”
Mr. Pringle’s eyes became as
bright as the harbor in sunlight,
but his face was once again
ludicrously serious. He said
“Now, how about this for a
solution? You come to lunch
with me and try those pigeons.
I brought them down specially
for you. That’s a fact. And
we’ll settle anything you please
over lunch.”
Miss Hemperton opened her
mouth to refuse, but he sprang
to his feet, and with a grin break-
ing up the mock solemnity he
cried “I’ll be here at one for
you. Now I’ll leave you in
peace.”
He trundled to the door. As
he opened it, he bowed and
backed out. All this was done
with such fervor and speed that
he collided with Mr. Kintillock.
“Why don’t you look where
you’re going?” groaned Kin-
tillock, rubbing a shin. Then he
saw who it was, “What!” he
said. “It’s you. I might have
known it. Running around
exploding like a stink-bomb
under everyone’s nose. No. I
can’t come to the pub. No. I
haven’t time to talk to you. No.
I don’t want to see you, now or
ever. And no, I don’t want to
go to Newport.”
“Kinty, old boy,” breathed
Mr. Pringle, revolving around
him like a spinning jumping-
bean. “Where did I get you,
you old b— — baboon?”
“Get out and let me alone,
can’t you?” demanded Kin-
tillock. “You got me into
enough trouble last time. I
don’t want to see you. I nearly
had a divorce on my hands.”
Mr. Pringle curbed his
exuberance. He seemed to
shrink. “You cut me to the
heart, Kinty, old chap,” he
whispered. Then, looking very
forlorn, he crept along the pas-
sage. But a few moments later
there was a knock on the door,
and round the edge came his
head.
‘‘One!” he hissed at Miss
Hemperton. Then he turned a
reproachful glance at Kintillock,
who was by now collapsed in his
chair, “I’ll ring your little wife
and tell her I was solely respon-
sible for the Newport affair,” he
said humbly.
Mr. Kintillock sat upright,
“Try it and I’ll half-kill you!”
he replied. “She only mentions
it once a month now; and you
want to start it all over again.
Get out of my sight, you pint-
size poltergeist,”
Mr. Pringle said dreamily “I
know just what I’ll say to her.
But first of all I’ll amble over
to the pub and have a little
something to give me the neces-
sary courage. I’ll fix it up for
you, Kinty old fellow. Trust
me.”
The door closed. His foot-
steps were still sounding in the
passage when Mr. Kintillock
made his dash. Miss Hemper-
ton heard the swing-doors fan
like a bellows. She heard the
whine of the lift. Without mean-
ing to she stepped to the window
and looked down the one floor
into the street. Presently she
saw the two men emerge. They
paused a few moments to talk to
Mr. Graham, who was about to
enter the building; then they
crossed over to the park. For a
moment they paused while Mr.
Pringle made scroll-signs in the
air. When these ceased Mr. Kin-
tillock’s laughter was so hearty
that it floated up to Miss Hem-
perton without losing a note,
“What a menace! ” she thought
as she watched Pringle grasp her
employer firmly under the elbow
and pilot him skilfully across the
park.
SHE went back to her desk
and sat for some time look-
ing at the mass of flowers on
the chair. At last she took a
couple of rosebuds and slipped
them under the scatter-pins on
her lapel. “I’ll have to keep it
now,” she thought, so she de-
cided to take the bouquet to the
washroom. As she opened the
door into the passage she came
face-to-face with Mr. Graham,
who had his hand outstretched
to knock. Her face above the
profusion of bright blossoms
was suddenly flushed, as though
she had been surprised at some
indiscretion. In vain she en-
deavored to greet him with her
customary detachment, and she
stammered a little as she said
“I shall be only a moment, Mr,
Graham.”
As she installed the flowers in
one of the washbasins she
thought irritably “I’ll see that
I’m out of this place by a quarter
to one at the latest.”
When she returned to the
office she avoided Mr. Graham’s
eyes, but Mr. Pringle had
ruffled her calm so effec-
tively that her terse manner
only accentuated her discomfi-
ture. All the time she was speak-
ing she was wondering what the
two men had said to Mr.
Graham as he was entering the
building, and her anxiety was in-
creased by Mr. Graham’s leave-
taking remark. He said, with a
surprising levity, “I hope you
enjoy your lunch.”
Her wide, astounded eyes met
his as he closed the door.
She was now firmly resolved
to avoid Mr. Pringle and thereby
cancel the luncheon. So just
before a quarter to one she
passed along the passage. There,
at the telephonist’s desk, stood
Mr. Pringle. He was telling the
switch-girl and three typists of
his encounter with a beautiful
spy in the Great War. He was
making a good story of it appar-
ently, and was skilfully ending it
off when Miss Hemperton
endeavored to slip by unob-
served. He let her reach the
door, and then he said loudly
“But she didn’t have the fresh
loveliness of Miss Hemperton.”
With that he swung around.
“Nor was she so punctual,” he
cried. He bounded after her,
calling over his shoulder “We’ll
bring back the wishbones,”
As soon as they were
the office. Miss Hemperton’
turned to him. “You know very
well I was slipping out,” she said.
“Slipping out! No. Never
say that. I can’t bear it,”
breathed Mr. Pringle. “I refuse
to believe it,” he said gallantly,
his voice gaining volume. She
found herself propelled into the
lift and then down the steps into
the street in much the same way
as Mr. Kintillock had been
urged.
At the kerb she grasped a
traffic-sign and arrested his
progress. “Where are we
going?” she demanded.
“Have no fear, my love,” said
Mr, Pringle soothingly. “You
are in good hands,”
“That’s one thing I refuse to
believe,” cried Miss Hemperton,
and in spite of herself some shred
of vivacity got past her censor.
They faced each other. “A
dinner fit for a princess awaits
you,” carolled her escort, taking
a firmer grip of her elbow,
“But I don’t want a dinner,”
she protested, as though she were
arguing with an old friend.
“They make me sleepy in the
middle of the day and I have a
lot of work to do.”
“A good sleep in the middle of
the day prolongs a woman’s life,”
said the invincible Pringle.
“Taxi!” he shrilled. He put his
fingers in his mouth and,whistled.
Miss Hemperton jumped.
“There, there, my dear,” said
Pringle. “You’re overworked.
Nervy. Jumpy. I’ll tackle that
Simon Legree boss of yours.”
“Mr. Kintillock,” began Miss
Hemperton.
“What about me?” demanded
Kintillock’s grumpy voice. They
spun around, and there he stood,
with Graham, immediately
behind them. “Where are you
taking my secretary?” he de-
manded. “It’s not one yet.
You’ve deliberately forestalled
my rescue plan.”
“To the Beltone. To give her
a decent feed. She looks
ethereal, though that’s probably
because she’s overworked. Now,
if I had her...” began Pringle.
“She’d end up in the rat-
house,” finished Kintillock. He
turned to Miss Hemperton. “I
suppose he’s shanghaied you
into this. You have more sense
than to be here otherwise.
Now’s your chance to escape.
Graham and I will hold him.”
“But the pigeons, my love,”
beseeched Pringle. “I brought
them all the way down especially
for you. I swear it. On my
honor.”
“Honor! You haven’t a
spark of it,” rejoined Kintillock.
Miss Hemperton glanced at
Pringle, and, like many a woman
before her, she felt an unguarded
moment of maternal tenderness.
Curiously enough, he seemed
truly downcast like a child who
has found his plans ruined by
the intervention of an adult.
“He is such a funny little
man,” she thought, “and it won’t
hurt me to go to lunch, I sup-
pose.” She looked up and found
herself gazing into the quizzi-
cal eyes of Mr. Graham. In-
stantly she was confused, and
looked shy.
Mr- Pringle’s roving, alert
eyes saw it all, and instantly he
said “Graham will chaperone
us. How’s that? What do you
say to that, Kinty, old chap?”
“I suppose it’s a good idea,”
conceded Kintillock. “She needs
some protection. God knows.
And I’m not game to go. My
constitution wouldn’t stand an
hour of you.”
IT was an hilarious meal, Mr.
1 Pringle insisted on a four-
course dinner. In vain did Miss
Hemperton protest. “She needs
feeding up, Graham,” said
Pringle. “Look at that fragile
form. Look at that alabaster
brow.” Mr. Graham looked.
He kept on looking. He felt as
though he had never really seen
Miss Hemperton before. Miss
Hemperton found herself blush-
ing.
“Oh, don’t be so silly,” was
all she could say. The brash
days of youth which she had so
deliberately curtailed seemed to
be carrying her forward on a
dumper of emotion which
threatened to engulf her at any
moment.
“Doesn’t she look delightful
when she blushes?” whispered
Mr. Pringle hoarsely. “To her
entrancing modesty,” he pursued
artfully.
She realised it was useless to
try to restrain him; so she sat
with downcast eyes, and found
to her surprise that she was en-
joying herself immensely. Mr.
Graham obediently raised his
glass and drank. Pringle leaned
towards her, “And to think of
such a lovely creature chained
to a soulless typewriter,” he
sighed mournfully, casting his
eyes prayerfully ceilingwards.
“Waste. Waste.” He dived his
fork into an oyster. “Another
plate of oysters each,” he said
to the hovering waiter, who for
some time had been concentrat-
ing on the conversation as
though it were part of a play,
“Oh, no ; please no! ”
“What! Don’t they please
you, my love? Is there too much
mornay and not enough
oyster, or too much oyster and
not enough mornay ? Just tell
__ 55
me.
“You heard the lady,” stated
Mr. Graham calmly. “If you
want to make a hog of yourself,
Pringle, do so. But kindly leave
us out.”
“Well, then, on with the
pigeons, Molotov,” commanded
Pringle.
During the eating of the
pigeons he toasted Miss Hemper-
ton’s hair, eyes and lips. During
the sweet he toasted her trust-
worthiness, conscientiousness
and ability. Two bottles were
now empty. He prepared to
order another, but Miss Hem-
perton appealed to Mr. Graham.
“Oh, please stop him,” she
whispered. “I really must get
back. It’s well after two now.”
“Miss Hemperton has to get
back to the office, Pip,” said
Mr. Graham firmly,
“What? Back to that sweat-
factory? Over my dead body!”
said Pringle, charging the air
with his fork like Don Quixote
attacking the windmill. “No,
no, a thousand times no. I shall
take her back with me to Quen-
ton. I need someone like her
at the office, and ,1 know how
to treat a secretary. Not like a
piece of the office furniture.”
Without notice the dumper
exploded, and for the first time
in years Miss Hemperton
allowed herself to enjoy the ex-
hilaration of uninhibited frank-
ness. She laughed merrily.
{Continued on page 30)


m
1
m
For all sports
SioirunxL
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
TO
For all occasions you can now buy
what every man wants —snug fitting,
comfortable, attractive Trousers.
From all over the world Stamina has
procured what are considered the
world’s best Trousers—Trousers from
England, America, the Continent.
Stamina’s experts have tried them on,
minutely examined them to find any
feature of value to you. The result is
the new 1952 Stamina model.
If you want pleasure in your leisure;
style; comfort in your sport, secure
this world’s best Trouser the
STAMINA Trouser that, as one man
rightly put it, is ideal for every wear
everywhere.
Shadows of Shades
by J.B. BLAIR
FISHER’S GHOST sat in
his favorite position on
the post-and-rail fence,
staring moodily at the dry
creek-bed. He was staring at it
from force of habit, for he well
knew that none of the company
gathered around him was in-
terested in what was buried
there. He shifted his gaze to
the queer collection of wraiths,
spooks and spectres congregated
on the bank: convicts with ball-
and-chain; bearded bush-
rangers ; gold-diggers in red
shirts; drovers, warders of the
System ; Rum Corps soldiers ;
a sailor or two ; sonsy-looking
wenches and a haughty lady or
so; even a sprinkling of
children. There were animals,,
too ; some of the bushrangers
were mounted and several
spectral dogs lay curled up at
the feet of their ghostly masters,
In the shadows, slightly aloof
from the rest of the company,
were two figures whose identity
was not easily discernible.
“Who are those two?” mur-
mured Fisher’s Ghost to a tall,
sharp-looking individual loung-
ing against the fence in a dark
uniform, thickly coated with
white dust. This was Frank,
the Commissariat Clerk, whose
career of petty peculation ended
in dusty death one night when
he overbalanced into a bin of
flour he was pillaging, to be dis-
covered a week or so later some-
what extinct ’
Flourv Frank a* wa«
, * , . ’ , as
. own , *° fellow-shades,
«~? Ce( T S thp shadows,
Oh, those, he replied. “They
’ em the Tantanoola Tiger
anc J the Yamba Crocodile,
Strictly speaking, they really
don’t belong, but you said ‘Get
everyone you can.’ They’re here
as observers, you might say.”
“Hm,” said Fisher’s Ghost.
“And that brat over there. Who’s
he?”
“That’s the Guyra Ghost.
Don’t you remember? He
throws stones and things.”
“Most small boys do.”
“Yes, but not after.., You
know what I mean.”
“Oh, I see. He’s one of us,
then?”
“Absolutely authenticated.”
The crowd gathered on the
bank was muttering.
“What’s wrong with them?”
asked Fisher’s Ghost.
“Just getting a bit restless,”
said Floury Frank. “P’raps we’d
better get started.”
piSHER’S GHOST rapped
* the fence-rail with his pipe
and gave a chairmanlike cough.
The muttering died down and
the meeting came to order.
“Fellow-ghosts,” said Fisher’s
Ghost, “there is no need for me
to tell you why we are gathered
here tonight.”
A chorus of dutiful “Hear,
hears” was marred by one
raucous voice calling, “Well,
wot are we ’ere for?”
“It’s the Jolly Swagman,”
whispered Floury Frank. “You
know—the waltzing Matilda
bloke.”
“We are here,” said Fisher’s
Ghost, “at the request of a
number of our people, to dis-
cuss their concern at the
intrusion into the Australian
haunting business of a lot of
interlopers from overseas.”
“Talks like a book, don’t ’e?”
murmured one of the convicts
admiringly, “Makes a cove feel
proud to be a spook.”
“To begin with,” said Fisher’s
Ghost, “I’ll call upon some of
our members who have had first-
hand experience of this problem.
Mr. Thunderbolt.”
A bearded bushranger on a
grey horse answered the call.
“Well, blokes,” he said, “it’s
these squawking women I
object to. If they can’t haunt
without squawking, they should
not be in the business. I don’t
mind a bit of weeping, like little
Sally, here, puts on, but I bar
this squawking. Now, take me.
You all know my little stunt. I
suddenly appear on old Silver
here, and gallop down the road
to hold up the Cobb and Co.
coach. No screeching. Just a
plain, straightforward haunt.
But some of these new dames
don’t seem to be able to do any-
thing without squealing and
screaming and screeching.
Blood-curdling, it is. Un-Aus-
tralian, too.”
“Not half so un-Australian as
the one I saw the other night,”
chipped in a gold-digger. “Gord
knows what boat he slipped in
on. One of them Cavaliers, with-
out an ’ead. Leastways, ’e
didn’t ’ave an ’ead on ’is
shoulders. Just ’ad it wrapped
up in a cloth. Good-looking
bloke, with a pointed beard.”
“How d’ you know he had
a beard, if his head was wrapped
up in a cloth?” asked Floury
Frank.
■ “Of course ’e ’ad a beard. All
them cavaliers ’ad beards, didn’t
they?”
No one disputed him further,
but the bushranger asked, “Was
he squawking at all?”
“Wot, and ’im with ’is ’ead
off? ’Course ’e wasn’t squawk-
ing.”
“Well, I don’t know,” mused
the bushranger. “Old Ching
Loo, him that they hanged with
his own pigtail at Lambing Flat,
he still has a word to say for
himself, in spite of having the
pigtail twisted round his throat.
Don’t you, Ching?”
An ancient Chinaman gave a
gaping grin and gurgled some-
thing possibly intended as assent.
“That’s different. This bloke
’ad ’is ’ead clean off. Clean as
a whistle. Wrapped up, it was.
And 'e didn’t squawk.”
“Next witness,” said Fisher’s
Ghost.
“My complaint,” said an
officer of the Rum Corps, “is
against these nuns-bricked-up-in-
walls. Might be all right in
medieval Europe, but it couldn’t
happen here.”
“No,” agreed Floury Frank,
“the victim would get out before
the brickies finished the job.”
“You’re a nice one to talk
about getting out,” scoffed the
Rum Corps man. “Tom couldn’t
find your way out of a flour-
bin.”
“Gentlemen, gentlemen!”
pleaded Fisher’s Ghost. “No
personalities. Let’s keep to the
business of the meeting.”
“/ object to the ghosts of
babies - buried - under - hearth-
stones,” said a refined-looking
young woman. “I know the
country needs immigrants, but
surely not those."
“More squawking and” squeal-
ing,” muttered the bushranger.
* l \\J HAT I don’t like,” com-
VV plained the squeaky
voice of the Guyra Ghost, “is
this cove that throws milking-
machine parts around. Throw-
ing things is my racket. I don’t
like other people pratting in.”
“What’s he mean?” asked
Fisher’s Ghost.
“It happened down Tarcutta
way,” said Floury Frank. “One
of those D.P.s, I fancy.”
“D.P.s?”
“Yes. You know —Displaced
Poltergeists.”
“Poltergeists,” said Fisher’s
Ghost, looking sternly at the boy
from Guyra, “are something I
don’t approve of. A spectre
should have dignity. I don’t
mind a bit of noise, mind you—
like rattling chains, or tinkling
bells, or the clatter of horses’
hoofs or”
“I always wanted a horse,” the
Guyra Ghost chipped in.
“Too late now,” said Fisher’s
Ghost. “Unless Thunderbolt
lends you his.”
“Not me,” said the bush-
ranger. “I wouldn’t know how
to haunt without my horse.
What’s more, no one would
know me.”
“They’d know me, horse or
no horse,” boasted the Guyra
Ghost. “I’d put a shower of
stones on their roof, that’s what
I’d do. But I’d like a horse, all
the same,” he added wistfully.
“I would like a horse to ride.”
“Let ’im try ’imself out on the
(Continued on page 30)
DANCE OF FLAME AND
SHADOW
(Hobo Chorus)
All who walk in the sun’s light
Throw a shadow. Of a shade.
Hooded angel of the hush,
Are these leaping terrors made
That dance upon the walls of
flesh.
You have done and left undone.
Let the brier but pluck the sleeve
And naked on the precipice
See the modest take their leave.
Snap a thread and come to this.
Snap a thread and come to this:
If the images that bless
Fade like mirage on the air,
Stepping through the looking-
glass
Pause and leave a shadow there.
Who set the hearth within the
heart.
Candles winking in the mind
To book and bedtime children?
Ask
The ape behind the window blind,
The murderer in the comic mask.
Here and there we shadows greet,
Doze and shuffle, hang like poor
Relations on a strap of breath
And bolt our pie-crust at the door
Who fear the rag-and-bone-man,
truth.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Missing Beneficiaries
CLARKE. —CHARLES ALFRED CLARKE,
farmer, son of JOSEPH TUTTON CLARKE
and ANN CLARKE (born Baldwin), died
at Coramba, N.S.W., on April 7, 1948.
Court has directed inquiry to ascertain
his statutory next-of-kin entitled to in-
testate part of his estate. Persons claim-
ing to be so entitled must send particulars
of relationship to Perpetual Trustee Co.,
Hunter St., Sydney, N.S.W., so as to
reach it by 14th February, 1953. Infor-
mation is particularly sought concerning:
ELLEN (or HELEN or NELLIE)
CLARKE; children of said ELLEN
CLARKE if she married; GEORGE
CLARKE or any child of his. Persons
able to give information about any of
these will please write to above-mentioned
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established ISIB. ,
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
C. C. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
IUSI
V/M.
m
£*2SS&Zs'l,
iAWI
0$
m
K%so>:
Quct/ifa
sn*c&ntjl*et/ut&e
Gordons
Stands
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE YI
Tanqueray Gordon & Co. Ltd.
Royal Military College
DUNTROON
AND ITS PRODUCTS
By "EK DUM"
FORTY years on from its
foundation. Colonel J. E.
Lee, D. 5.0., M.C, of the
Australian Staff Corps, has
put the record of Duntroon
Military College (from which he
graduated No. 56 in 1914) into
a book jacketed with the blue-
and-scarlet of the college colors,
and rich with history and names
which belong not only to Dun-
troon but to Australia,
The earliest history of the site
of the college was military.
There settled in 1825 (on the
spot then called Pialligo, but
afterwards given its present name
after a Campbell Castle, in Scot-
land) an overseer of the Camp-
bells named James Ainslie, for-
merly a trooper in the Scots
Greys, who had been wounded
after Waterloo in the pursuit of
the French cavalry. The moun-
tain named after him broods
over the college, which sits on
the ground where he settled five
years after Macquarie rode down
to Lake George and four years
after the Murrumbidgee was
discovered.
Thus the roots of the college’s
military history are sunk deep
into Australian soil; and the
college itself is older than Can-
berra, in whose environs it lies.
It was old enough to provide a
guard when the foundation
column of the capital was dedi-
cated by Lord Denman in
March, 1913. It remembers that
on that occasion the name was
given its official sounding, with
the accent on the first syllable
and the “e” in the last one
scarcely sounded —Can-b’ra.
It is as old as the compulsory-
training scheme which made the
first A.1.F., and older than the
A.I.F. itself, in which a legion
of its young, bright officers and
cadets served from the first
year of the World War I on-
wards.
It has known famous names
which have woven themselves
into the pattern of the Australian
story: Bridges, for example, its
first commandant, the dour, effi-
cient, honorable master who set
the standards of its teaching and
tradition and gave a flavor to
its atmosphere which has never
quite left it. He sleeps beside
it in the honored grave of the
first Australian general killed in
action in World War I. Its
present commandant, Major-
General Ronald Hopkins, was
one of its own students, who
headed the academic honor list
of 1917, which included C. E.
M. Lloyd, adjutant-general to
the Australian forces in the last
phases of World War 11, Briga-
dier Jack Mann, immortal to
Diggers who knew him in North
Africa and now Engineer-in-
Chief of the Australian Army,
Major-General “Blue” Kendall,
recently acting as commandant
in S. Australia, H. F. H.
Durant, who was on General
MacArthur’s staff and retired a
brigadier in 1946, Brigadier J. T.
Simpson, Brigadier T. N.
Gooch, who now commands
National Service Training at
Holsworthy, Brigadier B. E.
Klein, founder of Army polo in
Australia; and G. H, Clifton,
who came out of World War II
a temporary brigadier, a D.S.O.
with two bars, an M.C. and an
M.I.D. —the man who was taken
prisoner in North Africa, who
bearded Rommel to his face,
and who became one of the most
famous escapists in all the his-
tory of modem war. He him-
self topped the college in another
year. That is the sort of class
which Duntroon is apt to turn
out.
Some past and honored com-
mandants have already grown
old too early under the strain of
war and passed on —“Ike” Plant,
probably the tiniest boy who
ever shot in a winning team in
the Earl of Meath’s Empire
trophy in the days when the little
Brisbane Grammar School cadet
corps of 70-odd contained,
among others who were to help
make the name of Duntroon
famous, either as commandants,
teachers or students; Lavarack,
C. G. N. Miles, Plant himself,
Boase and others. He died all
too early in the post-war years.
The present Chief of the
General Staff, Lieutenant-
General Rowell, is a graduate;
the Governor of Queensland was
commandant (1933-5); General
Wootten, General MacArthur’s
favorite fighting general, gradu-
ated there. Two students
have held the post of Com-
mander-in-Chief of the British
Commonwealth Forces in Japan
—Lieutenant-General Sir H. C.
H. Robertson and Lieutenant-
General William Bridgford, who
now holds the command-in-chief
in Tokyo. The college’s present
commandant made the Aus-
tralian ingredient of the force
occupying Japan, the 34th
Brigade, famous for its smart-
ness throughout the whole mili-
tary world, and from his effort
there was bora the Royal Aus-
tralian Regiment, which is pro-
viding our infantry fighting-force
in Korea.
Apart from this the college
has produced commandants of
every State command —Southern
(C. A. Clowes); Eastern (Frank
Berryman of the Berryforce in the
Syrian campaign ; R. H. Nimmo
and V. C. Secombe, Northern
and for a time Eastern (while
General Berryman did the
organisation for the projected
Royal visit); Whitelaw, W.A.,
Chapman and others in the
South and West, Dollery in Tas-
mania, Fullarton, Seventh Dis-
trict, and others. It has provided
heads of missions, members of
the Military Board, a chief-
engineer or two, commanders of
armored divisions, commanders
of infantry divisions, including
the ever-mourned George Vasey,
who died all too young in an
accident in New Guinea in June,
1944, liaison-officers in foreign
capitals.
Every high post in the Army
has been held by a Duntrooner,
and it has even had a few spares
for other military forces, such
as Norman Clowes, a major-
general, and A. R. Selby,
an acting lieutenant-general, in
the Mother Country, when they
retired from service in 1946.
Duntroon even gave the Air
Forces of Australia and New
Zealand each an air-vice-mar-
shal ; F. M. Bladin, of the bril-
liant year 1917, who was first
Chief of Staff of the British
Occupation Forces in Japan, and
Air Vice-Marshal Nevill, who
became chief of the Maoriland
Air Staff. But not these, nor
the up-and-coming lieutenant-
colonels Frank Hassett, of
Korea, now fresh-home; Jim
Thyer, Kappe and others of
Malaya whose names come
readily to mind, nor the young
subalterns who peer over the
hills along the Imjin today as
their seniors peered so often
over strangely similar terrain
of Turkey —have most honor at
Duntroon. The supreme honors
lie with those who died with
Bridges on Gallipoli—the first of
them Lieutenant P. J. Patterson,
of the 12th Battalion—the fight-
ing battalion which provided
our 1942-45 Chief of Staff,
Lieutenant-General Northcott,
who became the first Australian
to command a British Common-
wealth Occupation Force abroad
and the first Australian-born
Governor of N. S. Wales.
No fewer than 18 students of
the years 1911 and 1912 died in
the Anzac battles between April
28 and December 21, 1915. One,
Sergeant H. S. Mills, enlisted in
the Fourth Battalion in Decem-
ber, 1914. He was killed on
August 6 of the following year.
He had been in the college only
nine months. He died in action
three months short of 20 years
of age.
It is a striking note on the
quality of the youngsters who
were turned out from the first
batches that whereas the first
subalterns who went into the
A.I.F. before they finished their
courses were mostly still subal-
terns when they died, after a
few brief months of active ser-
vice, one officer had been pro-
moted to captain before his
death in 1915. The first Dun-
trooner to be killed in France
(on July 19, 1916) was a major,
A. J. S. Hutchinson, 15th Bat-
talion, He belonged to a tragic
class of 1912, Out of ten named
as the most distinguished
academically, five were dead
before the war had run two
years of its course. One other,
Reg Miles (N.Z.), died in Spain
in 1943 when escaping from a
German prison-camp. He was
a brigadier, C.R.A., of the N.Z.
Division. Of the survivors of
the class, S. F. Rowell is now
Chief of the General Staff.
Duntroon has an exacting
series of courses, 21 of which
are military or related to mili-
tary action. In addition it
teaches English and history,
mathematics at an increasingly
high standard, chemistry and
physics, modern languages —it
had the pioneer Japanese course
under Professor Murdoch. And
it is the one Australian institu-
tion devoted to higher academic
instruction which has had
a special course in “traditions
and customs,” An early com-
mandant who had been with the
first Australian force to fight in
the World War I—F. B. Heri-
tage, C.B.E. —once said: “It
turns out first-class university
graduates and it guarantees
them up to sample, in the pink
of physical condition and able
to ride.”
+ +
Statistics are perhaps the worst
guide to the success of the mixed
military and civil teaching-in-
structional staff which works
together so smoothly in an ever-
growing and ever more complex
organisation. But figures at least
give a basic idea of what it has
achieved. Its total admissions
from 1911 to February, 1947,
were only 1106 —935 from the
Australian States, 171 from N.Z.
Of these, 826 graduated—69o
from Australia, 136 from N.Z.
A few of the balance went out
during the depression ; 164 were
discharged for various reasons,
showing the rigid standards
which are maintained and how
hard it is to live up to them.
There were still 92 waiting to
graduate when the 1911-46
balance-sheet was made up.
A total of 219, or more than
a quarter of all graduates, were
killed or wounded in the two
Great Wars, but including three
on the Indian frontier in various
affrays. Till the end of World
War II 93 had died on service.
These were apart from non-
graduated students, of whom
over 100 saw active service.
The remaining 662 of all
graduated ranks and all ages
down to beardless neophytes in
Australia broke up into the fol-
lowing divisions: Five lieutenant-
generals, 15 major-generals, 57
brigadiers, 39 colonels, 125 lieu-
tenant-colonels, 104 majors, 123
captains and 194 subalterns, plus
an air-vice-marshal, 6 air-com-
modores, 11 group-captains, 4
wing-commanders and 6 others.
Among the N.Z. quota of 136
there were two major-generals,
13 brigadiers, 4 colonels and 12
lieutenant-colonels, with one air-
vice-marshal. And on war ser-
vice—l 33 Australians served,
their highest rank major, in
World War I and 583 in World
War 11, with highest rank
lieutenant-general. There were
138 Maorilanders from Dun-
troon in the two wars. Dun-
trooners won 12 C.B.s, 46
C. 55 D.S.O.s, 1 double-
bar to a D. 5.0., 10 bars to
D. 45 M.C.s and upwards
of 250 other awards, British and
foreign, in the two wars.
They are the backbone of the
Regular Army Officer Corps in
all branches, in which, when the
college was founded, there was
not one single native of briga-
dier’s rank.
They are a versatile lot, not
wholly military in their talents.
Though the bulk of them stick
loyally to the military profession
and return the country full value
for the very expensive training
that it gives them, they are to
be found in high positions in all
walks of life, since wounds, ill-
health won in battle and retire-
ment provisions drive them out,
still sprightly and still ready to
die in their boots.
With the opportunities which
are being provided in these times
for officers to live in foreign
parts with their families, and
with new attractions of the Ser-
vice, since the Army has grown
sizeable and rates of pay have
achieved professional levels, it
is becoming even more versatile.
The new year’s entry may in-
clude, say, a laborer’s brilliant
son from an outback desert
mining-town, or a six-footer who
has been the chosen playmate
of the Crown Prince of Japan.
Both will be on the same foot-
ing in every respect; for one of
the things which makes Dun-
troon what it is is that merit,
so far as it can be humanly
achieved, is the primary test of
a man. Its discipline is rigid,
its standards in tests for entry,
in work and play are exacting
both in quality and in spirit. To
get into the college is in itself a
distinction and a mark of
quality.
Citizen soldiers sometimes
chafe when introduced to Dun-
troon standards and to the rigid
Duntroon manner, which is soon
eroded from a subaltern on ser-
vice, but which is inevitable until
he is run-in after his years of
comparatively monastic life in
an atmosphere much like that of
an ambitious rowing eight stuck
away in training quarters and
being subjected to 24-hours-a-
-day discipline and diet with few
holiday respites, by a friendly
but severe set of coaches.
The college song says:
It’s a way, it’s a way, it’s a way we
Have at the good old R.M.C.
On the whole, it is a very
sound way, based from the first
on an active-service tradition.


rr
THE symbol
that stands
for Scotch
Whisky at
its noblest . .
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
WHI7X/9
SPORTING NOTIONS
Forest Beau and Carioca,
most popular horses for A.J.C.
Villiers Stakes at Randwick on
Saturday, overshadow oppo-
nents so far as recent form is
concerned, and it looks a match-
race between them. However, it
mightn’t turn out that way.
There are some smart light-
weights in that mile, and a
surprise may be in store.
It is generally a wise plan to
stick to winning form. Carioca
has struck a purple patch, with
five successive wins, latest at
Rosehill last Saturday, and he
has a luxury weight of 8.2 in
the Villiers. It isn’t easy to see
Forest Beau giving him 91b., but
he may do it. Doubles-takers
on the Villiers and Summer Cup
have supported the pair for the
first “leg” to almost total exclu-
sion of any other mile con-
testants. Carioca has made a
habit of breaking race- and
course-records during his win-
ning sequence, and at Rosehill
covered the six furlongs in 1.111,
half-a-second faster than pre-
vious best for the course, and he
won without being fully ex-
tended. It was a stylish per-
formance, and of no comfort to
bookmakers who have him as a
liability for the Villiers.
Imported Newtown Wonder,
who has sired several smart
youngsters, had winners in two
different States last Saturday,
Constant Wonder at Rosehill
and El Wonder at Ipswich (Q.).
Lastnamed won the Second
Maiden in good style. His dam,
El Dorado, is a daughter of
Felous (imp.) and Silver Ore
by Tideacre (imp.), and the
family lines include Stamen,
who won races in four Aus-
tralian States, two successes
being at Randwick. El Wonder
cost his owner, N. Duce, 850gns.
at last autumn sales at Rand-
wick. The Rosehill winner Con-
stant Wonder is from Proudness,
and followed El Wonder into
the sale-ring. He realised
575gns. and already has earned
more than his purchase price, as
Saturday’s prize was £590.
Proudness is by Agincourt
(imp.) from Zealous by Constant
Son (imp.) from Nyamba by
Comedy King (imp.). Constant
Wonder is closely related to St.
Constant, who won the V.R.C.
Cantala Stakes in 1938. He is
from the successful T. J. Smith
Randwick team.
Ridden by George Podmore,
Mercury won the 1951 Villiers
at Randwick from Bankbrook
and Grand Monarch. Coniston,
7-to-2 favorite, finished in the
middle of the field, at no time
flattering supporters. Winning
favorites that day were Cele-
brate, Liberal King and Cym-
bidium, but outsiders Lord
Lucifer (25’s) and Gallant Leader
(16’s) did bookmakers a good
turn. The Summer Cup last
year went to Persist, ridden by
George Moore, with Sea Wolf
second and Grand Monarch
third. Winner started at 7’s.
Chitral, favorite at 4 to 1, and
ridden by Sellwood, ran sixth.
The A.J.C. School for Appren-
tices, one of the biggest of its
kind in the world, had a success-
ful year thanks to the efforts of
its three stalwarts, lan Peaks,
Alf Taylor and Norman Larkin.
The 80 young horsemen
benefited greatly from their
attendance throughout the year,
and to their masters’ credit they
looked the part when attending
the school’s annual prizegiving
at Randwick racecourse. All
were smartly dressed and well
groomed, and listened atten-
tively to the A.J.C. chairman and
other speakers. Bob Reed, dux
for 1952, and Laurie Billett,
runner-up, were main prize-
winners. Even though most of
the hopefuls won’t make the
grade as jockeys all should profit
later in life from their attend-
ance at the school. Two famous
Jims of other days, Jim Pike
and Jim Munro, were visitors,
A number of A.J.C. members
donated prizes, and one young
lad —he would weigh about
sst. 101 b an alarm-
clock, probably already set for
surr|mer-time rising—four a.m.
Australian jockey Edgar Britt,
now of international fame, holds
a high opinion of the world’s
greatest horseman, English
champion Gordon Richards, who
has piloted upwards of 4450 win-
ners. “Richards has always set
a high standard of jockeyship,
and is a great personality, both
on and off the racecourse,” said
Britt, addressing about 70 young
riders at Randwick at the annual
prizegiving function of the
A.J.C.’s school for apprentices.
Britt was apprenticed to Rand-
wick trainer Mick Poison, for
whom he won many races. He
gave the budding jockeys various
hints and sound advice, quite
apart from the business of horse-
riding. His well-delivered speech
interested A.J.C. committeemen,
club members, trainers and
others privileged to attend. Now
48, and still riding with great
skill and amazing success,
Richards had his first success in
1921, on a horse named Gay
Lord, and first became champion
jockey in 1925. Since then, on
only two occasions has he failed
to head the list in each season,
and in one of those two years
he was runner-up. On one occa-
sion, in 1933, Gordon rode 12
consecutive winners.
Moonee Valley punters didn’t
earn their Christmas expenses
last Saturday, when only two
favorites won, though the only
real outsider to score was New
Britain in the First Highweight.
English stallion Empyrean got
his name into the headlines
once again, as he sired winners
of both two-year-old events,
Yungawee in the Moreland
Stakes and Stannum in the Two-
year-old Plate. Latter is a chest-
nut colt from Whizbeau by John
James (imp.) from Beaunell by
Beau Fils (imp.) from Nelsonette
by Trafalgar, a name well re-
membered by veteran racegoers.
Empyrean was bred in England
by Lord Derby, and won races
Sid bmo.
“Blast it, Browning, it's my turn — YOU played
with it yesterday!”
there. His progeny first raced
as two-year-olds last season, and
his six winning youngsters (14
successes) earned £17,010, a first-
season record. Best of his pro-
geny is Pure Fire. The imported
sire is by noted Hyperion, and
his dam. Ad Astra, by Asterus.
Empyrean is located at Kismet
Park stud, Sunbury (Vic.).
When the grey filly by Nizami
(imp.) from Idavale, a winner
of V.R.C, Maribyrnong Trial,
was paraded in the Randwick
yearling sale-ring in the autumn
of 1951 the opening bid for her
was lOOOgns. This quickly ad-
vanced to 3100gns, and the filly,
now racing as Nizamvale, was
booked to Randwick trainer
Peter Lawson. Raced by Jack
Shaw and trained by Lawson,
she had seven unplaced starts at
two years, which must have been
discouraging to her purchaser.
However, she opened her win-
ning account at the latest Gos-
ford (N.S.W.) meeting, starting
second-favorite for the First 3-
and 4-year-old Maiden, which
was a start towards reducing
expenses; Nizamvale is a half-
sister to Tamasha, a Randwick
and suburban winner. Idavale is
by Lord Quex (imp.) from
Arizona by Martian from
Grecian Maid by Cyrenian
(imp.)
Visiting jockeys from the
Eastern States to Perth for the
W.A.T.C.’s invitation Centenary
Cup, run over l\ miles, had a
good view of the finish from
behind the placegetters. Not
one of the quartet, D. Munro
(from Sydney), A. Breasley, W.
Williamson and T. Unkovich
(from Melbourne), filled a place,
Uhkovich’s mount. Jewel Time,
ran fourth. All the same, the
visiting jockeys enjoyed their
stay in W.A.’s capital. Breasley
and Williamson each won a race,
but Munro was out of luck.
Still, it was a pleasant trip to
the West, and the horsemen
should be the better for it.
Invitation races are catching on.
Perth punters probably got a
thrill from the presence of the
visiting horsemen; prominent
riders from the eastern States
seldom go so far from their
home tracks.
Former Perth galloper Morn
Patrol, now in training at Rand-
wick in care of Charlie Mc-
Loughlin, an ex-Queenslander,
was probably the most unlucky
runner at Rosehill last Satur-
day. ' Carrying the stable con-
fidence, he finished brilliantly
after being in front of only a
few horses making the home
turn. Perth has sent some great
performers to the east, and Morn
Patrol might keep up their repu-
tation. He is not in the class
of Eurythmic, Maple, Maikai or
Remarc, just to cite a strong
winning quartet, but he may
soon add to his winnings.
Ipswich (Q.) Maiden Two-
year-old winner Murray Brook
is raced by C. W. and W. H.
Mace, whose best horse was
Murray Stream, sire of the colt.
Murray Stream was one of the
fastest horses in training at Rose-
bery in recent years. Before he
won the A.J.C. Metropolitan
Handicap in 1945 and again in
1947, and in fact throughout
training at Rosebery, he galloped
in brilliant fashion, and there
hasn’t been a horse at that track
in the intervening years capable
of equalling his times. A son
of Midstream (imp.), he is
located at Mace’s stud in
Queensland.
Segenhoe (Scone, N.S.W.)
studmaster Lionel Israel has
a promising filly in First
Row, winner, at her first
start, of Rosehill Two-year-old
Handicap. She won in brilliant
fashion. She started at long
odds, but won with something
in hand in race-record time.
First Row is trained at Rand-
wick by Jack Mitchell, and is a
daughter of imported Nilo from
Dress Circle by Actor (Fr.) from
Duse (Fr.) by Vatout. The
Nile’s were in keen demand at
last autumn sales, and this first-
season stallion has got away to
an excellent start. He is by
Nearco (unbeaten as a racehorse
and leading sire in England for
three seasons) from Dodoma by
Dastur. Nilo won sprint events
in England with up to 9.5, and
is closely related to Nasrullah,
and not so closely to Nizami
(imp.). The Segenhoe studmaster
will parade several Nilo’s at the
Rand Wick sales next Easter.
This season’s progeny of the
importation total 28, and include
a colt from Civic Pride and a
colt from Miss Sovereign.
An interesting galloper well
known on the Australian turf
has returned to training at Rose-
hill after a spell of about nine
months. He is nine-year-old
Dark Marne, who has won
£31,203 in prizemoney.
Kinder Myth, an outsider
which won the W.A.T.C.’s Cen-
tenary Cup, lj mile, in Perth
from Law Chief and Coronate,
had 27 starts last season for two
wins, the Christmas Handicap
and First Scarborough Handi-
cap in November last. The
Christmas Handicap was run at
11 furlongs, so he had middle-
distance form on his side.
Kinder Myth is a five-year-old
gelding, and, as his name im-
plies, is by Kinderscout (imp.).
His dam Ottermoa was by Moa-
bite (imp.) from Ottermost by
Shepherd King (imp.).
* * * «
Australia’s much - criticised
Test team beat the South
Africans. The S’Africans made
a valiant second-innings effort to
get the 337 needed, and at times,
as when McGlew and Funston
were well-dug-in, looked like
doing it. Lindwall slathered ’em
out on the last day 96 runs
short. Australia 280 (Harvey
109, Hassett 55; Melle 6-71,
Watkins 4-41) and 277 (Morris
58, Harvey 52); S. Africa 221
(Ring 6-72) and 240 (McGlew
69, Funston 65; Lindwall 5-60).
In Sydney at the weekend the
S. Africans played an Australian
XI led by Test selector Ridings,
and made up mainly of colts,
Test players and “possibles.”
Young-’uns Hole, McDonald
(very lucky early), Benaud, De
Courcy and Craig all played
good first-innings knocks. In
Melbourne, on a wicket some-
what affected by rain, Queens-
land was out for 116 (Bill John-
ston 8-52). In reply, Victoria
got 208, left-hander Chambers
top-scoring with 73.
In Perth W.A. beat N.S.W. by
146 runs on the first innings, a
partnership of 167 by Briggs and
youthful lan Craig in N.S.W.’s
second knock stopping an out-
right win. N.S.W. 259 (Craig
61, Carroll 60; Price 4-51) and
382 (Briggs 121, Craig 91, David-
son 66 ; Outridge 4-80); W.A.
405 (Edwards 75, Langdon §B,
Meuleman 65; Brooks 5-111)
and 0-2.
* * * *
After being stoushed in the
first two Tests the Australian
Rugby Leaguesters managed to
reverse the process in the last
Test against England. Inclusion
of a new hooker (Kearney) and
reinstatement of Pidding and
Holman probably helped “our
boys” to get 27 points to 7;
Pidding a try and six goals.
* * * *
The Australian pro. golf
championship, played on the
short (standard scratch 63) Rose-
ville (N.S.W.) course, gave the
title to Lakes professional Billy
Holder, 2 up on Eric Cremin.
The flock of birdies in the semi-
finals and final filled the air with
feathers.
« * * *
When local Ray Coleman and
Victorian Van Woods clashed at
Leichhardt Stadium a few weeks
ago Coleman seemed to shade
Woods on points, although the
contest was declared a draw.
Coleman (8-12) showed such
superiority over Woods (8-114)
in their return clash in the same
arena last week that he was
well ahead after 12
fought rounds. Coleman looked
an early winner when he
dropped Woods twice, for no
count each time, in round three.
Woods rocked Coleman with a
riotous chin-cracking right in
the fifth, however, whereupon
both fought furiously up to the
final bell. Winning rounds six
and seven, Coleman landed low
with a solid left swing m spasm
eight, but Woods showed no ill-
effects, and fought so hard from
then on that the verdict for C° l <-'
man was vociferously hooted, it
is doubtful whether Woods won
a single round. The supporting
12-rounder between Eddie
Marks (8-10) and Alan
(8-12) was also a return. Rdcme
(a cousin of the late Dave Sands)
stopped Marks halfway thr °
the earlier scrap, but Marks
boxed brilliantly to beat Ritchie
on points in the second.


NEW PIPELINE
LOAN
*
brings Security to
BROKEN HILL
Guarantees Investors
£4'ls'-
PER CENT
-
Ever since the discovery of silver in
1883, Broken Hill has battled against
water shortages. The completion of a
24-inch pipeline, through which water
will be pumped 72 miles from the
Darling River, will end this threat to
the 32,000 residents of Australia’s
greatest silver-lead and zinc producing
centre.
To provide finance to complete this
vital undertaking, the Broken Hill
Water Board has opened its first public
loan for £650,000. The N.S.W. Govern-
ment guarantees principal and interest,
while the Loan is an authorised Trustee
Investment in N.S.W., Queensland and
Tasmania.
.
Each £lOO you invest will earn £57
interest before the Loan is repaid
on Ist January , 1965 .
INVEST TO-DAY AT
Call at any branch of the Common-
wealth Bank of Australia, or apply
through your Stockbroker. Ask for a
Prospectus and Application Form.
The Loan will close not later than 27th
December, 1952, and is underwritten by
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne.
BHPL2
Jumbo Love
by WILL LAWSON
Nosey waters
shivered as he turned
into a street away from
the harbor, and with
shoulders hunched pushed on
his way up the dark thorough-
fare. It was one o’clock in the
morning, when any decent man
would be home, or making for
it. Nosey was not decent and
had no home; but he still had
the homing instinct and was
steering for a park, which lay
to the morning sun, when it
rose, with a fine harbor view.
There, under newspapers he
carried, he would sleep, to be
wakened by the dawn shining
into his sylvan bedroom. Nosey
loved that early waking, the
sensation of feeling like a duke,
as he put it, with the sun and
birds as his flunkeys. From
which it will be gathered that
Nosey was a hobo.
It was a long, straight street,
sloping upward among many
homes, most of which had steps
leading straight down to the
footpath. Plodding along, head
down, Nosey heard the sound of
a door being opened, only a few
paces ahead. Feeling there was
something unusual in the quiet
opening of a door, with no
sound of human steps or voices,
Nosey stopped to see what hap-
pened.
Then he saw a white-clad
figure descending some steps,
very slowly and softly, about
four houses away. A ghost!
Nosey’s scalp twitched. The
figure moved so silently, looked
so dim and unearthly, he
wanted to run to the other side
of the street, but his feet were
paralysed with fear. It was
coming straight for him, too,
that strange figure. And slowly
he backed into the roadway,
still staring.
It was a girl in her nightdress
and barefoot. She went past
him with eyes wide open, but
unseeing.
“Well, I’m darned,” said
Nosey. “Sleep-walking, eh?”
He stayed in the roadway, still
a little nervous, till he was
opposite the wide-open door-
way out of which the girl had
come. He could see dimly into
a dark hall, and moved near to
look. A warm house-smell
wafted out to his nostrils. On
the chilly night air it was a
honey smell, tempting to a
wanderer. Why not slip inside
while the girl was out, find a
corner to sleep, then slip out
again in the morning?
Why not? He had moved to
ascend the steps when a sigh
fell on his ears, very close be-
hind him. He moved aside to
look and saw the sleep-walker
about to climb the steps and
enter. Nosey jumped away as
she passed up the steps andi
inside. She closed the door on
Nosey’s plans for a warm sleep-
ing-place.
“Of all the . . . Well, I’ll be
spiflocated! ” Nosey muttered*
and went on his way towards
his airy bed in the park. But he
began to think. Did that girl
sleep-walk every night? He
would see, and if she did, next
time he would make a certainty
of getting inside the house. The
more he thought of it, the more
he liked it. Even if he was
caught, most likely he would
only have women to deal with ;
and they were always easy on
homeless blokes
STILL planning, he went his
way, the street-lights ahead
disappearing, apparently going
out one by one. That was un-
canny too. The street must be
haunted. There were nine lights
—he had counted them idly
when he turned into the street.
All but one behind him had
vanished —eight of them, and
all on the side of the street on
which he was walking. But even
the missing lights did not ex-
plain the utter, black darkness
which now confronted him. He
paused ; it was queer.
Then horror filled him.
Something huge was in front of
him ; its bulk was shutting off
the lights. It might be a ghost,
or maybe a black fog. A gusty
sigh sounded. His hair rose right
up, this time. He was too
scared to move. Then, out of
the blackness, a sinuous, snake-
like thing was extended as if to
feel his face. As it touched him,
he heard a gurgle of pleasure.
He bounded out of reach into
the road, and there, by the dim
radiance of the light next to
him, he saw an elephant. Nosey
was scared, yet relieved.
“You get back to your circus,
you!” he yelled.
The elephant had swung to-
wards him and now trumpeted
softly, as if pleased to meet
Nosey. That was enough. He
took to his heels, up the street.
But when a man is almost full
of beer he can’t run fast or far ;
and Nosey was full to the ears.
The waterside workers had been
generous that evening.
The elephant lumbered after
Nosey with surprising speed.
The tip of the trunk still ran
over him, as if he were a rich
prize that the elephant could not
let escape. All Nosey could do
was jog along, panting; the
elephant keeping easily on his
heels.
Then Nosey recalled that a
circus had camped at the lower
end of the park he was making
for; he decided to go to the
circus. He might get a reward
for bringing the elephant back
—if he was bringing it back. It
seemed more as if the elephant
were seeing him home.
AND all this time, in the
circus tent, where the
elephant lived, an argument was
raging among some circus
hands as to who was respons-
ible for the escape of Lulu, The
boss was away at a party, so no-
body was worrying. Sooner or
later Lulu would come home.
“You shouldn’t have pinched
her beer, Bronco,” a long youth
said to a stout, rough-looking
lad.
“Well, you was in it, too,
Sam. Anyway, why should an
elephant get a bucket of beer
free and we can’t even get a
drink?”
“True enough. Only the boss
will have a different angle. Free
beer for all hands would be my
motto. Hullo, who’s this?”
It was Nosey, making a final
run to get away from Lulu.
“It’s an elephant, a bloomin’
elephant!” Nosey gasped. And
there was an outcry of joy as
Lulu lumbered along close at
Nosey’s heels. Sam was so glad
to see her he threw his arms in
the air and shouted.
“You’ve come home to daddy
—sweetheart! ”
Lulu, however, brushed him
aside and went to Nosey, to run
her trunk all over him again.
“Well, I’ll be damned,” Sam
said. Then, to Nosey, “Who are
you?”
“Me? Nobody in particular.
Why your blasted elephant fol-
lowed me I don’t know. So
I brought her back. Do I get a
reward? Found her in the
street, and brought her back, I
did.”
“You said just now she fol-
lowed you. You’ll have to see
the boss. We’ll put Lulu in her
tent and wait till the boss
comes.”
But Lulu would not enter her
tent; not without Nosey. She
began shepherding him in. And
when they were in, she lifted
him in her trunk and laid him
gently on a heap of hay.
“Better stay there till the boss
comes,” Sam said, “and don’t
tell him where you found her, or
he’ll fire the lot of us for pinch-
ing her beer.”
“Won’t I?” Nosey snorted.
“You’ll see.”
IT was warm on the hay, and
1 there was a dim lantern
swinging from the tent-pole.
Nosey felt comfortable and
went to sleep till the boss came,
an hour later. He gave Nosey
a pound, and told the others
they were all fired,
“We can’t hold Lulu with pegs
and ropes,” he said to Nosey,
“so we give her beer.”
“Can I go now?” Nosey
asked.
“Sure, go where you like,” the
boss answered.
But Lulu had otheV ideas. As
soon as Nosey rose from the
hay she picked him up and laid
him back on it, while the boss
laughed. And he had to stay
there ; there was nothing else for
it. If Nosey went. Lulu would
go, too, unless she got a bucket
of beer; and there was none in
the circus. So Nosey lay there.
But after a time Lulu became
sleepy. Still on her feet, she
swayed a little and her ears
wagged slowly. Nosey reckoned
she was asleep. He slid off the
hay and got under the tent-flap.
Lulu did not move. He ran
hard till he was far away from
the tent and in the park. Dawn
was just breaking. He threw
himself down on the grass, near
some of his hobo comrades, and,
one of them waking, said,
“Hullo, Nosey, thought you
must’ve got lumbered.”
They would not believe him
when he said he had been
lumbered by an elephant. When
he showed them the reward,
however, they did believe him.
Nosey was not mean. They got
much food and beer and fun out
of that pound.
And once more Nosey was
walking up that same street,
about one in the morning and
wondering if the sleep-walker
would appear again. On the
opposite side of the street he
waited, but she did not come.
His piece of candle that was to
help him find his way about in-
side was wasted now. He
walked over to the door; it was
locked.
So he started once more for
his open-air bedroom in the
park. And once more, as he
ambled along, Lulu came.
Nosey ran when he saw her, but
she soon caught him. Up the
street they went again, heading
for the circus. Lulu loving him
with the tip of her trunk and
chortling happily at having
found him again. At a corner,
a policeman, startled at the
strange sight, shouted:
“Hey, where are you taking
that elephant?”
“Taking the elephant?”
Nosey said miserably. “You
mean where’s she takin’ me?
Can’t you call a fire brigade?”
I ULU took Nosey back to
1— their tent, lifted him gently,
and laid him on the hay, where
she could run her trunk over
him while she munched her hay.
Nosey was tired; he went to
sleep and didn’t wake till after
dawn.
Sam had been seeking Lulu
all night. He came back while
Nosey was still, sleeping, and
called the boss to come and
have a look.
“Well, I’m darned!” the boss
said. “Home, sweet home, it
you like. Did you ever see any-
thing like that? Tell you what,
Sam, we’ll have to work this
hobo into Lulu’s act.”
“One thing, boss,’ Sam corn-
mented, you 11 have to keep
him full of beer. That s why
Lulu likes him—he stmks of
been” . ,
That s easy, said the boss.
Give him half of Lulu s bucket
of beer. That’ll stop you fellers
stealing it.”
So Nosey got a job and a
home. Half a bucket of beer
was not a thing to argue about,
But they could never make a
clown of a gentleman of leisure
l l^ 6 Nosey. He stayed with the
circus just long enough to get
a week’s pay. And the night
after he got it he was sleeping
again under the stars, to wake
with the dawn, feeling like a
duke, with the and the
winds as his flunkeys, in a place
where Lulu could nevei find
him.
LOW TIDE
The slavishly hidden sands ... I remember
A photo of crinolinesi. So much for a peep
At her legs—but this sea is old-fashioned. Creep
Of her tide a few chains, and she will remember.
Don’t look; it is all a mystery under that silk!
So sacrosanct that you are not prone to talk:
And, what is there under that billow and swell,
A drowned man has arms to embrace—many and many
A drowned man. None would expect you to tell
How the proud silk looks drawn aside.
It is desolate, dark and unclean; not the shiny
Light heaven of silk that lies green in each fold.
Then, man, down with this dress, and moon draw in
this tide,
Or count this the wildest sonnet ever was told.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


BUSHED 1858
TOL JRY'S
BRANDY
T5T.21.12
M.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
the name is
(DCodliims
the whisky is
Distilled and
blended in Scotland
Me 1/3.2
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
A Review of Economic, Market and Financial Conditions,
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Published by “The Bulletin.”
2/- per single copy—22/6 a year post free*
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BLOOD-RED CHINA
The Free Trade Union Com-
mittee of the American Federa-
tion of Labor estimates that the
Communist regime in China has
been responsible for the execu-
tion or violent death of approxi-
mately 14,000,000 persons in the
past five years.
“This,” somewhat under-
states “New York Times,” “is
killing on a large scale, even for
a part of Asia in which mass
suffering and mass death have
been commonplace.”
“Countries at war,” comments
“Manchester Guardian,” “may
boast of the armies they have
destroyed, but this is the destruc-
tion of foreign enemies, not of
their own subjects. Who has
ever before made a statement
in print and on cool considera-
tion, like this of Po Yi-po
[Minister of Finance and one
of the chief members of the
Peking Government]:
In the past three years we have
liquidated more than 2,000,000 ban-
dits. Bandits are non-existent in
China now, and the social order has
become stable as never before.
“ ‘Bandit’ means anybody who
possessed a little land (‘the land-
lord class’ says Po, has been
‘eliminated’) or who was disliked
by the Communists. This is the
first public admission by a
member of the Chinese Govern-
ment that the Communists have
killed, by execution and not in
battle or as the consequences of
civil war, 2,000,000 of their sub-
jects. Since Tamburlaine, what
Government would have gloried
in it?”
Endorsing the currently
rather hackneyed axiom that you
“can’t stop ideas with bullets”
(it’s used particularly by those
who are inclined to agree with
the “ideas”), the “New York
Times” further comments;
“It is apparent that the Com-
munists are acting on the
assumption that one can stop
ideas with the hangman and the
mass-executioner and that they
are determined to do so. We
are watching an attempt to de-
stroy not merely enemies of a
State but a whole population
group whose members are
thought to be representative of
the idea of individual dignity and
liberty,”
As assessed by London
“Economist” the wholesale
liquidation is having effects that
could be important. The “Econo-
mist” notes a new confidence
among the Chinese Nationalists
on Formosa, extending as well
to “anti-Communist Chinese
abroad,” making the Nationalists
“a less ghostly factor in Far
Eastern affairs than they were a
year ago.” It adds;
“When Chiang’s remnant re-
treated to Formosa after the col-
lapse on the mainland the 10
million or so ‘overseas’ Chinese,
including the well-to-do business
and commercial classes, hastened
to line up on the side of the
Communists, who were credited
with the intention of pursuing
moderate policies. But the
wholesale massacres of ‘counter-
revolutionaries,’ the ruthless ex-
tortions from the urban middle
classes and the tactics of obtain-
ing foreign exchange by impos-
ing heavy fines on families with
relatives abroad so that they
must appeal to the latter to pay
them, have caused alarm and
disgust,”
As a result of this change the
Overseas Chinese Conference
held in Taipeh, with 262 dele-
gates from 28 Chinese communi-
ties in foreign countries, mostly
from South-east Asia, resolved
to set up an association, organ-
ised in seven regions, to cover
Chinese residents all over the
world and support the Nation-
alist Government’s “policy for
reconquering the mainland.”
“This,” comments the “Econo-
mist, “is the first organised chal-
lenge to the grip of the Com-
munists on the overseas Chinese,
which has so far been strong,
not so much because of wide-
spread conviction as because of
the apparent lack of any politi-
cal alternative. The struggle for
their allegiance is of great im-
portance for South-east Asia, if
not immediately for China itself ;
for these numerous and wealthy
communities cannot be directly
coerced by Peking. They would
have freely adhered to the new
regime in China if it had lived
up to its early promises, but as
it manifests more and more its
real character, they are tending
increasingly to oppose it.”
Result; “There is now a pros-
pect of a prolonged coexistence
of two rival Chinese Govern-
ments, both based in Chinese
territory and bidding against
each other for support among
10 million Chinese who are still
free to choose. This is a situa-
tion which has no parallel in
other countries captured by
Communist revolutions.”
Re Section 92
Atlanta (U.S.A.) “Journal”
comment with a certain applica-
tion hereabouts;
“Many factors together
account for America’s wide-
spread productivity and pros-
London “News Chronicle"
STILL THE SAME OLD ADDRESS
perity. No one cause alone
could have brought it about.
“A principal factor, however
—and one often forgotten
because we take it so for granted
—is this clause in the Constitu-
tion of the United States:
No State shall, without the Con-
sent of the Congress, lay any Im-
posts or Duties on Imports or Ex-
ports, except what may be abso-
lutely necessary lor executing its
inspection Daws.
“That clause created and
guarantees the continued exist-
ence of a vast market inside
which there are no tariff walls,
no trade barriers. Commerce
and industry could develop any-
where within the nation to serve,
as best it might, all parts of the
nation.”
The “Journal” uses that as
argument in urging the popular
American idea of a United States
of Europe, which seems to over-
look that the U.S. (like Aus-
tralia) is one nation, not a dozen
or so.
U.N.O.'s New H.Q.
U.N.O.’s new home —or
mausoleum —cost 68 million
dollars. It is so decoratively im-
pressive that the delegates some-
times go for as long as half an
hour without abusing one
another.
Canadian delegate Lester B.
Pearson (\yho in cables has been
tipped as Trygve Lie’s succes-
sor —as if Russia would have
him /) was quoted by “U.S.
News and World Report” as
describing the place as “breath-
taking,” which doesn’t seem
quite the right word.
“A woman visitor,” the U.S.
publication added, “walking
through the hushed corridors,
remarked to a companion ‘My!
Ain’t it gorgeous?’ A less
enthusiastic deliveryman, who
hurried in with a package for
somebody, hurried away again
with the observation ‘lt’s like a
union meeting.’ He didn’t
explain.
“In the assembly-hall—where
almost anything can start an
argument among nations —the
walls are thoughtfully decorated
with murals described as ‘non-
objective’—another way of say-
ing they don’t mean anything.
“The hall is equipped with all
sorts of gadgets, from a new
translating-system to an electric
switch that raises and lowers the
lectern to accommodate short or
tall debaters. On the first day
one speaker pushed the ‘down’
button by mistake and gained
inches before the eyes of the
startled delegates.
“There is another new piece
of equipment: an automatic
stopwatch for the convenience
of U.N, orators. Its exact pur-
pose is a bit obscure, since the
U.N. has no limit on debate.
And the stopwatch stops after
45 minutes—which would just
be warm-up time for some of the
speeches the delegates have heard
(and made).”
Fitting Germany In
The treaty for the European
Defence Community (E.D.C.)
was signed early this year, but
French second-thoughts have
delayed ratification.
“It is,” comments “New York
Times,” airing American resent-
ment, “France which is balking
at the European Defence Com-
munity and France which is
keeping an unyielding grip on
the Saar.”
Something of the French hesi-
tations over E.D.C. can be
classed as purely political—ex-
pression of French resentment
of the U.S. lining-up with Russia
in U.N.O. on the side of the
independence-seeking Tunisians
against France.
That was certainly resented
in France, as indicated by this
sample typical comment from
the pro-Government paper
“L’Aurore”;
“Now is the hour for France
and Great Britain to tighten
their alliance and to make clear
that in Africa they will defend
jointly their rights and the
peace. We have been placed in
a minority in the Political Com-
mittee of the U.N. Great
Britain has voted with us. The
United States, on the contrary,
has cheerfully dropped us in
order to range itself on the side
of our Arab-Asiatic ‘accusers,’
supported, it goes without say-
ing, by the Soviets.”
Above this possibly tempor-
ary hurt is the French fear of
Germany; as real as ever —if
anything, increasing now as
Germany’s total recovery rapidly
advances. The hard facts gov-
erning the situation, however
(given here from a San Fran-
cisco “Chronicle” survey), are
regarded as certain to prove
decisive;
1. West Germany must be in-
cluded in any coalition for the
defence of Western Europe
against the Russian menace;
without West Germany all con-
ceivable combinations would be
virtually impotent.
2. The best way to prevent
West Germany from again
breaking the peace of Europe as
an international paranoid is by
riveting her into the E.D.C.,
wherein German forces would
be integrated with other national
forces, and neither opportunity
nor temptation would arise for
German military and political
leaders to commence a secret
build-up in the Hitler'manner.
3. German re-emergence as
the dominant force in the Wes-
tern European economic sphere
is now a fact against which it is
profitless to complain. If French
politicians refuse to harness
West Germany through ratifying
the E.D.C, that will not rid
them —and France—of the Ger-
man menace. It will create a
new and a very powerful Ger-
man menace and aggravate the
Russian menace.
New Soviet Tactics
Practically all overseas analys-
ings of the recent Communist-
party congress in Moscow agree
on one conclusion; that the
Soviet strategy for the coming
year will mainly be directed at
dividing the rest of the West
from the U.S.
Leading U.S. commentator
Walter Lippmann supports that


HH
Ittißi
y
m
-
Sill
-
ill
"ASK ME ANOTHER"
When the incomparable Jack Davey says “Ask Me Another”
to the panel of four every Tuesday night on a nation-wide
Macquarie radio network, he proves each week that this
immensely popular feature is ideally suited to his outstanding
talents. Working completely without script, his nimble brain
and lightning quips have established him as one of the
world’s foremost radio personalities.
“Ask Me Another”—can they find it in 20 questions?—is
presented by the manufacturers of Eno and Brylcreem, and
is produced by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service.
2GB 2HR 2CA 2WL 2LF 2LT 2MG 2MW 2PK 2AD 2HD 3AW 3CV 3GL
4BH 4BU 4GY SDN SRM 6IX 6WB 6MD 7HO 7LA
conclusion from the American
point of view:
“When the Cominform was
organised the Communist parties
were told that the Soviet Gov-
ernment would never, as one
Western Communist leader put
it at the time, ‘provide the
United States with another
Pearl Harbor.’
“What this meant was that
the Soviet Government had de-
cided to avoid provoking the
United States too much, relying
upon our [Americans’] remote-
ness from Europe and natural
isolationism to keep us from
intervening before it was too
late.
“In 1950, however, very pos-
sibly because of a miscalcula-
tion, the invasion of South
Korea did ‘provide another
Pearl Harbor.’ That is to say,
the Korean war provoked the
massive rearmament of the
United States, a very consider-
able rearmament of Western
Europe, and brought about the
decision to rearm Western Ger-
many and Japan.
“This meant a radical change
in the world situation; the
United States, which had re-
verted to something very like
military isolation, suddenly
emerged as the organiser of a
world-wide military coalition.
“The new Soviet tactics re-
flect this change. Whereas
formerly they counted on U.S.
isolationism, provided w e
[Americans] were not provoked
too much, now the Soviet Gov-
ernment sees that its problem is
how to impose the isolationism
upon us. Almost certainly they
are assuming that we have been
provoked to a point where we
cannot now be appeased. The
obvious line for the Soviets then
is to appease our allies by being
unprovocative with them, and
thus to isolate us from them.”
Poser for France
French indignation rose to
fury over America’s siding with
Russia on the Tunisian issue in
U.N.O.
Retaliation of all sorts was
threatened—at least by indi-
vidual French politicians and
the Press. Among other things,
there would be delays to, if not
total non-co-operation in, the
European unity for which the
U.S. has been a prime mover.
The U.S., according to Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” report (the
“Scotsman” is very canny, too,
on matters like this), thereupon
led at France the ace of trumps:
“The U.S. Chiefs of Staff
warned the French Government
that if France delayed or re-
fused ratification of the Euro-
pean Army Treaty, which per-
mits German rearmament, U.S.
plans for European defence
would have to return to the
‘strategy of peripheral bases.’
By this is meant reliance on
long-distance bbmbing from
bases some distance from
Russia, in Britain, Spain,
Morocco, Libya, Turkey and
Saudi Arabia.
“This was the basis of Ameri-
can defence strategy until 1950.
Its backbone was the B-36
heavy bomber, with its world-
wide range. It was revised in
1950 in favor of a strategy based
on forward bases in France, the
Low Countries and Germany, to
be guarded by a strong Euro-
pean Army, including German
forces, and from which the
B-47 six-jet medium bomber,
then coming into production,
could operate. This bomber is
faster than the B-36 but has a
shorter range ; it therefore needs
bases nearer its targets.
“A return to the peripheral-
base strategy is now possible,
however, because the first heavy
all-jet bomber, the B-52 eight-
jet, is now going into produc-
tion. With flight-refuelling its
range will be almost equal to
that of the B-36. A return to
this strategy will, in the eyes of
the U.S. Chiefs of Staff, be
necessary if France delays or
prevents the formation of a Ger-
man army, without which the
safety of forward bases in
Europe cannot be assured.”
Inflation Diagnosis
Lewis Douglas, who was U.S.
Ambassador to Britain and
earlier held the American post of
Director of the Budget, made
this summing-up on inflation in
a speech in New York:
“The type of inflation which
has done the most permanent
damage to society has been that
which has had its roots in loose
public fiscal policy— extrava-
gance in the use of public credit
and public money.
“This type of inflation usually
appears after a protracted period
London “Daily Express"
“PHEW! WE NEARLY HAD AN OUTBREAK OF PEACE
THAT TIME”
of mismanagement of public
finances and a substantial growth
in the public debt. During the
initial period of indiscriminate
use of the public funds there is
frequently no outward evidence
of the consequences. But the
malaise subtly and imperceptibly
becomes more violent.
“At some later period’ occa-
sionally after interludes of
apparent quiet, it breaks out
again with greater violence.
Governments then attempt to
restrain these manifestations of
fiscal mismanagement by impos-
ing all manner of controls. This
effort, at one stage or another,
has invariably failed. To the
extent that it seems to succeed
at any particular moment, the
market-place becomes increas-
ingly subordinate to the dicta of
the State, and the entire political
and social system is revolu-
tionised.”
German Army
Comparing the present re-
arming of Germany (and this
time Japan) with developments
between the world wars, the
gods must be grimly chuckling.
One of the doubts regarding
both countries is whether con-
trol of their new armies can be
kept away from the old mili-
taristic cliques.
Recent fire-eating speeches by
former German generals are
looked on, in Britain and
France especially, as most sig-
nificant omens.
One trouble, noted by “Man-
chester Guardian,” is that to
have fallen out with Hitler is
too easily regarded as a proof
of political soundness in Ger-
man generals:
“Too many of them turned
against the Fiihrer only because
he failed. He was their idol so
long as he led them from one
successful aggression to another.
Most survivors of the old mili-
tary caste in Germany are
deeply imbued with nationalistic
ideas and with a conception of
the Army’s leadership role, in-
herited from Moltke and
Ludendorff.”
“The skeleton already exists
on which to assemble a body of
half a million men, complete with
everything except a general staff
whose formation is, alas, only
a matter of time,” comments
London “Time and Tide.” “In a
mixture of fear and hope we
emphasise the European aspect
of what we trust will be thought
a new creation ; but the fact re-
mains that we are witnessing the
re-creation of the German
army.”
The question is whether
generals can be found in Ger-
many capable of leading the
new soldiers right away from
ideas of reconquest and racial
assertion.
Various Voices
British Chief of Air Staff, Sir
John Slessor: “No one who has
followed at all closely the de-
velopment of air-transport over
the past 10 years can doubt that
we are today seeing only the
very infancy of a new transport
agency which, both for pas-
sengers and high-grade traffic,
will replace increasingly the
surface vessel. On the basis of
what has already been done, can
one doubt that we are barely
on the fringes of air-transport
potentialities?”
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Butler {speaking in
Edinburgh): “It is my ambition
that my country and yours shall
run its affairs without aid from
any other country whatsoever in
the world. I think it is time
that a great deal of the inde-
pendence of British policy was
restored to the chancelleries of
Whitehall. I think it is valu-
able that we, as the centre of
the Commonwealth, should be
able to run our affairs with this
great group of nations and play
our part in the world as an inde-
pendent unit. This does not
mean I am not grateful for
American aid.”
The lately -passe d-on Chief
Jeremiah Moshesh, making what
London “Times” reported as the
shortest public speech on record
in South Africa: “My speech
will be short. God Save the
King.”
Anthony Eden: “To distort
the meetings of the United
Nations and use them for
recrimination and abuse, that is
to sabotage peace. It betrays
the deepest hopes of all men.”
Eisenhower: “While the pur-
pose of Soviet policy remains
steadfastly the same its plan for
action is always undergoing re-
vision. The consistency in
Soviet behavior, we have long
known, does not come from
neat, precise adherence to a
straight line. It comes from a
meticulously measured zigzag-
ging, back and forth, to right
and to left, to achieve a result
carefully calculated and bal-
anced.”
Veteran French statesman
Edouard Herriot: “I ask the
United States to spare us cer-
tain proceedings like dragging us
before the United Nations at
the very moment the Americans
set up military bases in Morocco,
thus undermining their own
positions there.”
Field-Marshal Sir William
Slim: “Between the wars his
countrymen outside the Army
saw little of the regular officer.
Yet while they were laughing at
Colonel Blimp he quietly pre-
pared himself, so that when war
came it was not only in valor,
which his greatest detractors had
allowed him, but in professional
skill and in economy in his
soldiers’ lives that he compared
to advantage with both enemies
and allies.”
U.S. Senator McCarthy (inter-
viewed): “McCarthyism, inso-
far as the word means a one-
man crusade against Com-
munists in the Government, is
finished. There is no longer any
need for slam-bang tactics. The
country as a whole has been
aroused now to the menace, and
that was my whole purpose.”
Churchill: “Personally I’m
always ready to learn, although
I do not always like being
taught.”
U.S. Army Secretary Frank
Pace, Jr.: “We deceive ourselves
when we assume that American
science, American know-how
and American education are so
far ahead of other Powers that
we can take this lead for
granted. The gap may be clos-
ing. Evidence is appearing that
the Communists have made tre-
mendous strides in laboratory
development, research pro-
grammes and generally in their
scientific potential.”
Boyd - Carpenter (Financial
Secretary to the British Trea-
sury) : “Politicians, I am afraid,
use statistics rather as a drunken
man uses a lamp-post, more for
support than illumination.”
Sir Lionel Heald, Q.C., M.P.:
“There are certain things the
State can do best, but the most
important thing is to encourage
people to do things for them-
selves. In other words, Con-
servatives think it is enough for
the Government to roll out a
good wicket and to provide the
umpires; Socialists want to bat,
bowl and place the field as well.”
Ambassador Frederick L-
Anderson (deputy U.S. special
representative in Europe): “The
recent speeches of Stalin, Malen-
kov and Bulganin in Moscow
were a clear warning-bell of
their intentions to lull, divide,
discourage, embitter and con-
quer the alliance of free pations
opposing Soviet aims. The free
world is entering a period more
difficult and potentially more
dangerous than any it has known
since the early years of the last
war.”
British Conservative M.P.,
Cyril Osborne : “In sport we re-
ward and honor those who are
successful. We expect from
them the will to win and the
ability to crush their rivals. In
work we do exactly the opposite
and tax to death the most suc-
cessful people.”
Sir James Scott Watson: “I
think there is a grave risk that
mankind will be too late in
stabilising world population, and
that we shall ultimately be faced
with world famine.”
British food scientist Lord
Boyd-Orr: “Some form of
World Government is the only
hope for the survival of our
civilisation.”
Jain Macleod (British Minister
of Health): “Let me not deny
Mr. Attlee his greatest achieve-
ment —he knew exactly when to
shift the responsibility of Gov-
ernment. For the truth of 1951
is the truth of 1931, that the
Socialists created and ran away
from an economic disaster that
they had neither the courage to
meet nor the ability to over-
come.”


THE BALL BEARING
• PRINCIPLE
Applied to the
Pulverising of Fuel
J
The ball bearing principle is as essential to
a pulveriser as is the wheel and axle for
transportation.
The grinding element, being designed in the
form of a giant ball-race, ensures that the
balls remain truly spherical irrespective of
the amount of wear they receive.
Cuts power consumption in half.
These features are only to
be found in the B. & W.
Type "E" Mill.
FW~:
Ml
! .
.
Top Right:
B. & W. Type "E" Mill
of 11 tons per
nominal capacity.
Centre:
Grinding element of
B. & W. Type "E" Mill.
Above:
The large door in the upper half of the
Type "E" Mill allows free access to the
grinding zone, where there are no pre-
cision parts requiring lubrication.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
“You are incorrigible,” she
said softly, her eyes dancing.
“If I took you up on that you’d
be in a nice position. No won-
der your life is cluttered up with
females. And you deserve every
one of them.”
Mock solemnity started to
spread over his face, but was
checked suddenly. “You know,”
he said seriously, “that smile
suits you. Why don’t you wear
it all the time, my dear? If
you’d take an old man’s
advice....”
|N confusion she gathered her
t bag and gloves and stood up.
Graham stood up too. He felt
an overwhelming u|ge to pro-
tect her. He wasn’t quite clear
why he should be so convinced
that she needed protection, be-
cause previously he had labelled
her as the type “well able to
look after herself.” He went to
her side.
“Look here, Pip, I have to get
along, too. If you like I’ll see
Miss Hemperton back.”
“Oh,” began Miss Hemper-
ton.
Pringle stood up, affronted,
“I like that. Pinch her off me,
would you?”
“L00k....”
“Well, we’ll both see her
back,” said Pringle with dignity.
At the dining-room doors he
paused and looked back into the
room. “Farewell,” he said
grandiloquently to the interested
diners. They smiled at him with
good humor.
In the taxi he cried to the
driver “Hurry, driver. It’s a
matter of life and death. We are
half an hour late and she’ll get
the sack.” Every few moments
he urged the man to greater
speed, calling out such titbits as
“She has an invalid mother and
a blind brother depending on
her,” and “She has an import-
ant document of ten pages to
get away on the four-o’clock
mail. The fate of the nation
hangs in the balance.”
It took them a hectic five
minutes to reach Pitkin House.
Mr. Graham jumped out im-
mediately the taxi jolted to a
stop and then half re-entered the
car again in his solicitous en-
deavors to assist Miss Hemper-
ton to alight. His gentleness
proclaimed his tender interest,
and while not appearing to
notice this, Mr. Pringle suddenly
looked complacent.
“You see her up to the office,
Graham old fellow,” he said
amiably. “You’re younger than
I.” Then he clutched his fore-
head and started getting out.
“Oh, we forgot to have our busi-
ness discussion about schedules.
I must come up, after all.”
Miss Hemperton looked
alarmed. She glanced appeal-
ingly up at Mr, Graham, who
responded with devoted alacrity.
He pushed Mr. Pringle back
into the seat and slammed the
door.
“Take him away,” he com-
manded the driver. “Far, far
away.”
The last they saw of Mr.
Pringle was his woebegone face
staring out at them from the
rear window.
“Oh, the poor little fellow,”
said Miss Hemperton. “I do
hope we haven’t hurt his feel-
ings. But he is a menace, isn’t
he? Oh, dear, there’s Mr.
Kintillock looking out the win-
dow. He doesn’t look very
pleased, I can tell by the way
he’s got his shoulders hunched
up around his head.”
SHE was right. Mr. Kintil-
lock was anything but
pleased, for the simple reason
that he didn’t like the way Mr.
Graham was bending over Miss
Hemperton. “It’s that damn’
Pringle,” he thought to himself.
“He’s made them feel the magic
in the air.”
In the taxi the menace was
radiating contentment. Only the
gamin twinkle in his eye saved
him from looking smug. He
leaned forward and said confid-
ingly to the driver “I think I’ve
arranged a good little match
there, mate. What do you think
of the way things were shaping
when we dumped ’em?”
“It looks a bit as though she’s
hooked him, Joe. But there’s
many a slip, you know.”
“The slips come when you’re
young and silly, boy,” stated
Mr. Pringle from the heart. He
leaned back, calling out “Take
me back to the Beltone like a
good chap, will you? This kick-
ing when you find the ball at
your feet’s a bit exhausting. I
think I’ll have a sleep. Why
shouldn’t I, anyway? It looks
as though my immediate worries
are over. All I have to do now
is keep out of Kinty’s way.
He’ll be bleating for my blood
any day now.”
Tantanoola Tiger,” suggested the
Jolly Swagman. “If ’e can ride
that ’e can ride anything.”
There was a chorus of ghostly
laughter, in which everyone but
the Guyra boy and the Tan-
tanoola Tiger joined.
“Talking of animals,” said a
Rum Corps officer, “I wish to
report a werewolf. Saw it lop-
ing along Liverpool-road the
other night as large as life. I
thought at first it must have got
away from a batch of animals
old Hailstone had brought out
for the zoo, but it was a were-
wolf, all right. While I was
looking at it all of a sudden it
changed back into a man before
my very eyes and slipped in
through the side-door of the
Tanners’ Arms.”
“Werewolf! ” sa i d Floury
Frank. “That’s interesting.
They say the only “way you can
kill ’em is with a silver bullet.”
“I don’t believe in were-
wolves,” said Fisher’s Ghost.
“Mere figments of the imagina-
tion.”
“Come to that,” replied
Floury Frank. “I daresay there
was a time when you didn’t be-
lieve in ghosts, yet look at you
now.”
“No personalities,” said
Fisher’s Ghost. “I repeat —
werewolves are mere figments
of the imagination.”
“I resent that,” protested the
Rum Corps officer. “I saw that
werewolf as plainly as I can
see you. As plainly as I can see
that fence through you,” he
added maliciously.
CLOURY FRANK inter-
* vened, “Perhaps someone
else has seen a werewolf,” he
suggested.
“I’ve seen everything,” volun-
teered the Jolly Swagman.
“Werewolves, vampires and the
rest of ’em. Never did me any
harm, none of ’em. Jurabucks
were my downfall. And
troopers.”
“Vampires,” said Fisher’s
Ghost, “are also creatures of the
imagination. We must stick to
facts.”
“I always keep to facts,” said
the Rum Corps officer. “I say
1 saw a werewolf.”
“I don’t doubt your honesty,”
Fisher’s Ghost told him, “but
surely you’ll admit you could
have been mistaken. A trick of
the light perhaps. A shadow.”
A tall, gaunt figure wearing a
black topcoat with Astrakhan
collar chipped in. “Shadows,”
he said, “that’s it. But why
quarrel? What we all need is
tolerance. As the immortal Bard
said, ‘The best in this kind are
but shadows, and the worst are
no worse, if imagination amend
them.’ ”
“That’s quite right, George,”
agreed Fisher’s Ghost. “Just as
I was saying. Imagination.
Still, as you say, we must be
tolerant. Personally, I’ll believe
in werewolves and vampires
when I see one, but we can’t all
be hard-headed and practical. If
the major says he saw a were-
wolf, well, we won’t argue about
it.”
Floury Frank was seen to
murmur something to Fisher’s
Ghost.
“Eh? Of course I’m not for-
getting I’m chairman,” replied
that gentleman in a loud whisper.
“Well, why don’t you keep
order, then?” inquired a stoutish
spectre standing near by. “In
my union you wouldn’t have
held your job for five minutes.”
The chairman looked to
Floury Frank for assistance,
“He used to be secretary of
the Coffinmakers’ Union,” Frank
enlightened him, “He got away
with the members’ subs and they
put a lid on him.”
“That’s right,” confirmed the
coffinmaker. “Anyway, it wasn’t
a flour-bin lid.”
“Order! Order!” called
Fisher’s Ghost.
“Wot are we ’ere for?” called
the Jolly Swagman, and a
number of other spectres took
up the cry.
“Any more witnesses?” asked
Fisher’s Ghost.
There was no reply.
“Well, then, I’ll call for sug-
gestions. What are we going to
do about it?”
THE audience was apparently
teeming with ideas. From
among the din of shouted sug-
gestions a few came clearly to
the ears of the chairman.
“Ban them!”
“Send ’em to Norfolk Island!”
“Chuck ’em out!”
“Deport them!”
“Blackball ’em!”
Fisher’s Ghost held up his
hand for silence. “We’ve got to
be reasonable,” he said. “We
can’t deport anyone and we can’t
chuck anyone out. Our powers
are limited. We must recognise
that. Haunting is our game, and
we do it pretty well. But take
that away and what’s left?”
No one answered, so Fisher’s
Ghost continued. “The Govern-
ment is to blame. Somehow or
other these undesirables have
slipped through the screen.”
“Then the Government ought
to deport ’em,” said the Coffin-
maker amid a chorus of hear-
hears.
“That’s all very well,” replied
Fisher’s Ghost, “but there’s the
little matter of getting our wishes
through to the Government. In
the present underdeveloped stage
of telecommunications it’s quite
out of the question.”
“What about Sir Henry?”
asked one of the gold-diggers.
“It used to be his racket.”
A whiskery • old gentleman
stepped forward and bowed. “I
thank you hall,” he said, “for
this hopportunity of saying a
few words. Hunfortunately, I’ve
got no contacts with the present
Government, but even if I ’ad
I don’t think I’d be in favor of
deporting these himmigrants.
After hall, there’s lots of us ’ere
which were himmigrants our-
selves, once. These people are
British subjects ”
“Not that werewolf,” muttered
the Rum Corps major.
“Well, most of ’em, anyhow.
And what this country needs is
himmigrants....”
“But not the screeching and
screaming kind,” complained
the bushranger.
“And not the nuns-bricked-up-
in-walls.”
“Nor the babies-buried-under-
hearthstones.”
“Nor cavaliers with their ’eads
off.”
Fisher’s Ghost decided it was
time to take over again.
“I think perhaps Sir Henry’s
got something,” he said. “It’s
like George said —we need to be
tolerant. Perhaps, in time, these
folks will shake down all right.”
“No hope,” said the Coffin-
maker. “Lots o’ scabs. You
mark my words. They’ve come
out here to break down our con-
ditions.”
“I don’t know,” said Fisher’s
Ghost. “The Australian climate
and atmosphere may work
wonders with them. I wouldn’t
be surprised if before long we
find them acclimatised, and
working a forty-minute night,
like the rest of us.”
“There it goes!” shouted the
Rum Corps major. “Look! The
werewolf! ”
Everyone looked in the
direction in which he was
pointing, but they saw nothing,
“You weren’t quick enough,”
sdid the major. “It ran into that
poultry-yard on the hill.”
A sudden commotion from
the poultry-yard gave color to
his story. The hens couldn’t
have made more noise if there
had been forty werewolves
among them.
“So it’s imagination, is it?”
sneered the major, looking at
Fisher’s Ghost,
One of the drovers gave a
low whistle and a mongrel dog
came sneaking back from the
henhouse. The commotion died
down as suddenly as it had
begun.
A rooster crowed. From the
opposite hill came an answering
crow and, from the paddock on
the other side of the stream, a
third. In a moment every
rooster for miles around took up
the challenge,
“With your permission, Mr.
Chairman” —it was Sir Henry
again—“I would Tike to read
some verses I ’ave composed for
the hoccasion.”
He glanced towards Fisher’s
Ghost and Floury Frank.
Fisher’s Ghost nodded, and Sir
Henry turned to address the
audience. But the entire con-
gregation had vanished.
“Disgraceful display of bad
manners,” said Fisher’s Ghost
to Frank. “They might have
waited till the old boy said his
piece.”
“It’s not that,” said Floury
Frank. “It’s cock-crow!”
“Good Heavens! ” said
Fisher’s Ghost. “In that case,
I declare the meeting....”
He paused. Floury Frank
was no longer there. He looked
at Sir Henry. Sir Henry had
vanished. He looked down at
himself. He was no longer
there. From across the creek
came a voice silently singing
“Waltzing Matilda.” But there
was no one left to hear it.
BI-FOCAL
The Hills are verdigris and sallow;
the Slopes are tattooed jade and
fallow;
mackerel Cloud and woaded Sky
over the leopard Acres lie.
My Heart is magpie, mottled,
marbled;
This in my Heart with That is
garbled;
my Memories and Dreams I note
are harlequin as Joseph’s Coat.
Freckled with Heaven, flecked
with Hell,
yet is this World of Tortoiseshell
not, with its Colors tesselated,
to my motley Soul related:
Zebra with Anguish, Tiger with
Yearnings,
a Pepper-and-Salt of Ice and
Burnings,
I find in Mosaic no Relief;
Striae of Grief by Grief by Grief.
TASMANIA.
HAL PORTER.


established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKaON $
osuixivan
t-%, prttro. i
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce,
TO MARION ESTHER HEMSWORTH late
of Raby Flats, Eustace Street, Manly.—
TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE ROBERT
HEMSWORTH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4158 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 26th day of
February 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
W. P. McELHONE & COMPANY, Soli-
citors, 44 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends
TO JAMES SHADRICK MARTIN formerly
of Melbourne Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife EVELYN AGATHA
MARTIN has commenced proceedings
against you for a divorce on the ground of
desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Prothonotary of
the Supreme Court Melbourne on or before
the 14th day of January 1953 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costa AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to de-
fend the said proceedings you must file
an answer in the said Office on or before
the 17th day of February 1953. THIS
ADVERTISEMENT is inserted by C. M. S.
POWER, of 283 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Public Solicitor, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
WOULD MRS. MARGARET PALMER,
formerly of Romahapa, South Otago, New
Zealand, or anyone knowing her where-
abouts, communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Dunedin, New Zea-
land?
Elements of an Industry ., <
No. 11 ot a Seriea
'J'JN—The element tin has been known and used
since the earliest days of history. Egyptians of the
I4th century B.C. alloyed it with copper to make
mirrors, and Homer tells in the Iliad how Hephaestus,
the god of Fire, used tin to decorate a shield for
Achilles. Tin obtained from the moors and streams
of Cornwall was the one famous product of Ancient
Britain. A .natural tin oxide “cassiterite” —is still
mined in Cornwall today, but most of the worlds
supply comes from alluvial deposits in Malaya and
Indonesia and from ores mined in Bolivia, Africa
and Australia. By far the most important uses of tin
are in the production of tinplate for the canning
industry, and the tinning of articles such as milk
churns and kitchen utensils. Tin is also an important
constituent of alloys such as gun-metal and bronze,
and it is used to make bearing metals, soft solder and
pewter. Compounds of the element are used in dyeing
and medicine, and in the production of glazes and
enamels. Besides manufacturing tin dichloride for use
in the dyeing and finishing of silk, 1.C.1. in England
produces large quantities of tinned copper sheet and
tubes for dairy and food-producing equipment.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
—L. 318. 1575
SCOTLAND
—every
precious
dro
bed Scotch
|&Ac5
§WfHTE
CGOW. SCOT
ntnokss
E wS**
SCOTCH . WHISKY,
BLACK & WH ITE
V.m>UW u
■FECIAL *4IBNO OF
'HOICE OLD SCOTCH. WHISK
SCOTCH VOISTILLSBS-
\«ifSOOW h LONDON^
»ttT^CMIW«STIttIIW i «UIBW.SMTSIOt.SCOin*I'I»
NET CONTENTS I PINT A ftU*«> OZS
BUCHANAN'S
BLACK & WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment to
|h« Late King George VI
5
&
Ml
mm
i
m
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.. GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
.J. 8.4
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy The Premier and the
Painter by I. Zangwill and Four-
minute Essays by Frank Crane.
5398.
Words of poem - “ Beyond” by Tom
Beasley.—s 397.
To buy copy of Australian Nursery
Rhymes, published by The Bulletin
in 1917—5396.
To buy copy of Double Bed
Dialogues by “Henry James James
(Arthur H. Adams). —5395.
To buy copy of Boomerang by
Helen Simpson.—s 394.
To buy copy of Hardy Wilson’s
Colonial Architecture in N.S.W. and
Tasmania. —5393.
Copy of recent Australian poem
which contains a reference to the
aboriginal’s measurement of time by
the moon. —5399.
Information Sought
Possibility of making money out of
rearing squab pigeons as a commer-
cial venture? Where can books on
the subject be obtained, and names
and addresses of some N.S.W.
breeders ?
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
advises that squab-raising is not a
commercial industry in this country.
A number of people attempted to
develop the industry about 20 years
ago; however, the poor demand for
squabs resulted in the industry becom-
ing defunct within a few years. It
could be regarded as only a small
sideline which could cater for a small
clientele, but as a specialised venture
must be regarded as an unsound
proposition. There are several English
and American publications on the
subject, and you should try the
Graham Book Co., Martin-place, or
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street —both Sydney. The limited
number of fanciers of utility pigeons
in N.S.W. include Mr. E. Miegel,
Green Acres, Spurway-street, Dundas;
and Mr. Bremner, Park-road, Wood-
ford, Blue Mountains.
* * * *
(1) Has the ceremony of infant
baptism any legal significance ? (2) Is
the name then given to the child
irrevocably his ? (3) Is onus to inform
the Registrar of Births on the clergy-
man or on the parents ? (4) If the
latter, is it necessary that the name
of the child as given to the registrar
must agree with that given by the
clergyman ?
(1) The ceremony of infant baptism
does not seem to have any legal
significance in Australia, although in
England, where the Church of Eng-
land is in some sense a State institu-
tion, the giving of a name at baptism,
at any rate in an Anglican church,
does result in the child having a
Christian-name which can be changed
only .at confirmation (if the bishop
consents), by Act of Parliament, or
upon the child being adopted (when
an additional name may be given).
(2) It is considered that the name
given at baptism in Australia may
(as far as the law is concerned) be
changed by deed or by constant usage
or (if the child’s birth has not been
registered) upon registration of the
birth. (3) The clergyman has no duty
of informing the Registrar of Births.
The onus is on the parents or (it
they fail) upon the occupier of the
place where the child was born. (4)
No.
* * * *
(1) Some facts on Eritrea? (2)
Does Italy still rule it ?
(1) With a coastline of 650 miles
along the Red Sea, Eritrea has an
area of 64,000 sq. miles, and its
population is just on 1,000,000 (about
50,000 whites), It is bounded by
Ethiopia, Sudan and French Somali-
land. Capital is Asmara; Massowa
is the chief port. Principal export is
salt. Semi-nomadic shepherds form
the population of the plains and foot-
hills, whilst Abyssinians inhabit
Eritrea’s inland plateau. The plains
are suitable only for pastoral pur-
poses, but the plateau and an inter-
mediate zone are well-cultivated. The
Italians carried out irrigation works
and built roads, etc. (2) No. Eritrea
became an Italian colony in 1889,
was taken over and administered by
Britain in 1942, and in September this
year (following a decision by the
U.N. General Assembly in 1950) was
handed over to Ethiopian rule.
* * * *
Where is the note-issue printed?
How are new notes distributed?
All printing of new notes is done
by the note-printing branch of the
Commonwealth Bank. The notes are
then senfr to the note-issue depart-
ment, which issues them to the general
banking department. All notes printed
must go through this department,
which then issues them to customers
of the bank or to the trading banks.
The latter are compelled by law to
keep an “exchange-account” deposit
with the central bank, and it is by
drawing on these deposits that they
obtain new notes for circulation.
* * * *
Some particulars about the School
of Public Health and Tropical Medi-
cine established at the University of
Sydney?
Besides the teaching and investiga-
tion of preventive and tropical medi-
cine, the school also investigates chest
infections in student and occupational
groups, carries out research into prob-
lems affecting the health and welfare
of workers and trains medical and
nursing personnel in industrial medi-
cine and hygiene. Its associated
Institute of Child Health trains
students and doctors in child health
and carries on important research in
this subject. Research activities
extend beyond the Australian main-
land to Australian Territories and to
Pacific islands. Training of personnel
during World War II was an essential
ingredient in the remarkable work of
controlling tropical disease in all
Allied forces in the South-West
Pacific.
* * * *
Who was Abelard ?
A foremost philosopher, theologian
and scholar of the Middle Ages. Born
in 1079 in Brittany, he set up schools
in opposition to those of the estab-
lished masters, and soon his teach-
ings became more widely accepted.
In 1115 he was made canon and
master of Notre Dame, whither the
fame of his learning drew pupils
from all over Europe. The ascen-
dancy during the Middle Ages of the
philosophical authority of Aristotle
is largely due to his teachings. He
suffered frequent persecution, particu-
larly just before his death in 1142.
However, it is associated with Heloise,
with whom he had a famous but ill-
starred love affair, that Abelard is
mainly remembered. Their names are
synonyms for faithful love.
Brief Answers
G.F.: Ace Tannery Pty., Ltd.,' 18-
20 Martin-place, Sydney, specialises
in crocodile- and other reptile-skins.
These skins are so intractable that
it is almost impossible for the
amateur to tan them properly
H.A.F.: Beltane Book Bureau, 110
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington (N.Z.).
W.Y.F.: Before quadruplication
of the line Stanmore was the only
suburban station which had two
separate platforms and two booking-
offices. One booking-office served
passengers travelling in the direction
of Homebush and the other passen-
gers travelling to Sydney. Hence it
was necessary to erect a sign for the
guidance of passengers desiring to
travel either “To Homebush” or “To
Sydney.” The “To Sydney” sign has
since been removed A.J.D.: Write
Mr. Damien Kennedy, Monte Cas-
sino, Kilcoy (Q.) K. 8.: “Queens-
land Times,” Ipswich V.M.:
Suggest you try Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
A.R.: V. C. Gair became Premier
of Queensland on January 17, 1952.
P.M.C.: Write Identity Studio,
Ist Floor, 175 Pitt-street, Sydney
W.G.: Experiments in Living by
Professor A. Macbeath, published by
Macmillan, London H.J.M.: A
copy can be borrowed from the City
of Sydney Public Library, Q.V.
Building, George-street, Sydney
F.M.F.: Write Director of Agricul-
ture, Department of Agriculture,
Treasury-gardens, Melbourne J. 8.:
From Gaston C. Renard, antiquarian
bookseller, P.O. Box 5295, G.P.0..
Melbourne J.L.N.: Sorry, but
were unable to trace the information
in any of the standard reference-
books available in Sydney... .T.R.R. •
(1) No fixed time. If not returned
within two months inform the
periodical that if not already accepted
you intend to submit it elsewhere.
(2) Periodicals generally purchase out-
right copyright, reserving for the
author, however, separate right of
republication upon acknowledgment.
R.K.W.: An Alcoholics Anony-
mous group meets in your suburb
every Wednesday evening at the
School of Arts Building, Lane Cove
(N.S.W.). .
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.T.: Poem beginning “Where Am
I Going?” is going back M.R.:
Not at home to fairies and wee folk.
. ...T.D.: Even the Mayoral recom-
mendation failed to carry it through.
I.S.: Pleased to note “Love, tis
never blue,” and will remember
“friendship is so true” C.S.: In-
clined to agree that “poetry written
for the amusement of the ship’s com-
pany” may not amuse a wider
audience”.... M.D.: Admire your
sentiments, but not your poetry....
C.R.: Not giving that windjammer a
certificate of seaworthiness L.H.:
It couldn’t be much worse... .E. 8.:
Henry Lawson did it better in “When
Your Pants Begin to G 0”... .P.V.R.:
Westward flies your poem... .L.D.K.:
“Mr. L.D.K. presents his compliments
to the Editor of the Sydney Bulletin
and submits the enclosed verse for
his kind consideration.” The Editor
of the Sydney Bulletin presents nis
compliments to Mr. L.D.K. and has
returned the verse for burning
M.P.: Just another country road
winding down to the sea W.W.R.:
Not “for The Bulletin” J.S.M.:
It should have been sent to one of
the religious weeklies J.F.: Re-
ceived too late for consideration as
a Christmas verse... .K.J.: You
whispered too faintly to catch the
editorial ear P.C.: Yet another
Christmas verse that didn’t reach the
barrier P.C.: Get more melody
into your singing M.M.: ’Twas a
hard day’s work chasing those long,
straggling lines....JJ.O’N.: While
reading “Skeleton Camp” we, too,
let forth “an occasional groan”; also
“often, too, a weirdsome moan”....
F.P.: A little less scenery, please,
and more about the characters
S.A.J.: We seem to have met that
landlady, or it may have been her
twin sister, in a story by Harold
Mercer.... L.R.: Take away the wise-
cracks and there is nothing in the
story P.R.8.: A pointless yam.
....J.S.W.: Boiled down, all that
your tale amounts to is that they
met at an expensive night-club, she
turned out to be a waitress in a
hash-house and he a shearers’ cook.
H.McG.: That type of larrikin
went out with Dennis... .F.A. : The
village drunk is snoring it off in the
w.p.b J.R.R.: No need for those
discursive introductions.... G.M. "•
Maria is one redhead that won’t
flaunt her charms before our readers’
eyes S.P.: Get some style into
your work —you’re not writing tele-
grams S.H.F.: Christmas story
might have strayed from an English
magazine L.S.: Can’t you write a
single sentence without uttering a
cliche?... .N.C.: An echo of a well-
known story by H. E. Bates 8.G.:
A borderline effort; condense and
brighten and resubmit J.C.V.:
Melbourne beer-strike story merely
made us thirsty.


TJI
/
jj moe/ot
™o™-out tractor!
Farming is a business you can’t
afford losses through inefficiency. Making do
with out-of-date equipment is false economy. You’ll get
far richer rewards for your labour if you invest in a Nuffield Universal
the one tractor that has everything, does everything! Complete
with 6-way power—power take-off, swinging drawbar, belt pulley,
hydraulic lift, two hydraulic tapping points, and full electrical,
equipment, the Nuffield Tractor does
everything a 10-horse team will do
and more, effortlessly, and with
year-round reliability and economy.
REPAIR BIIU S
BREA
.U **
s
s.\
'A
fi
fv * 0
.... 4&
'*
Jouff Sent# money
Maw more money
% ■%
WITH A
*
I
SA^
V£/*
>v/
u
0000 t
NT12.24.52
DISTRIBUTORS—
«*» New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: FLINDERS MOTORS LTD.
South Australia; KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND,
WWW
DEALER
N.S.W
TRACTOR
... the last word in
efficient Tractor design
"Phenovis" Worm Hemertt
i
%
i&m
\
to
tk
get
A//'
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
BHE.BX.BO
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Long Walk
“Frank H.”: A mob of 5000
Northern Territory-bred Short-
horn weaners reached Muswell-
brook (N.S.W.) looking like skin
and bone after travelling 2700
miles by road and rail from
drought - stricken Brunette
Downs, on the Barkly Table-
lands,
Jim White owns Brunette
Downs (NT.) and Edinglassie
(Muswellbrook), where the stock
are being nursed back to health.
Costly and careful plans, com-
pleted long before the trek began,
reduced travel casualties to
negligible proportions.
The stock, taken from their
drought-weakened mothers dur-
ing a station-wide muster, walked
in easy stages 700 miles to the
railhead at Mt. Isa (Q.), their
route dotted with mounds of
lucerne hay which cost £35 a
ton. The weaners ate between
70 and 80 tons of it on the trip.
The road and rail journey took
five months.
White, who is president of the
Shorthorn Society, is one of the
few North Australian graziers to
move cattle from the drought-
stricken areas this year. He said
no one knew the extent to which
the drought had affected the in-
dustry. Normally about 100,000
head of stock moved from the
north each year, but it was not
expected more than 8000 would
travel this year. He described
an estimate of 49,000 as the
drought’s toll made by Minister
for Territories Hasluck as a
guess, adding that no person was
capable of making an accurate
assessment before next Sep-
tember, and then only if the
weather improved.
Feeding Horses
“Plane Creek”: The working-
horse deserves a fair deal. A
good, well-drained stable with
rainproof roof, roomy stalls,
decent feed and good grazing
help greatly to keep draughts in
good shape. A water-tank is
necessary at any stable.
Great need of the working-
horse is protein. This gives
energy and strength for hard
work. The seed and sterilised
blood- and meat-meals contain
much protein and should be
given in gradually increasing
quantities to avoid stomach up-
sets. Their use is advised in par-
ticular where nags are fed on
home-chaffed natural grasses
with doubtful protein content.
Fattening carbohydrates are
also necessary. Bran and
pollard are well supplied with
them, so are corn, wheat and
barley (crushed). Sorghum
grain is also good, and there’s
little doubt that the easily-grown
grain-sorghums are threatening
rivals of the less-easily-grown
maize. Molasses helps horse’s
feed down and supplies carbos.,
but an excess of it may lead to
chronic scouring. It is very
heating.
If they can feed overnight or
outside working hours in a grass
paddock, so much the better.
Belly-filling herbage is what they
need. Yarded prads should be
given some cut grass to compen-
sate for lack of grazing. On
good pastures, unworked nags,
unless very old, hold their con-
dition well. Always provide
water and rock-salt in plenty.
Foot-and-mouth Disease
“Springvale”: The disease is
spread whenever an infected
animal contacts a healthy one,
“One of those Argentine types."
probably by droplets in the
breath. Indirect contagion is
commonly made by contami-
nated material —the excreta of
infected animals, soiled straw,
contaminated drinking - water,
yards, pastures and highways
and by the men working on or
around the farm.
It starts with a rise in tempera-
ture which may last several days.
Then blisters form on the mouth,
and, particularly in cattle, on
the muzzle and at the bases of
the horns. Lesions sometimes
appear on the teats and udders
of cows, thus swiftly spreading
the disease through the entire
herd by way of the milkers’
hands. The infection on the hoof
usually appears at the same time,
causing severe pain and lameness.
Often the animal goes down and
refuses to get up. Pigs will
attempt walking on their knees.
The vesicles on the feet are
usually the first to erupt and
become crusted with discharge
mixed with dirt. There is intense
salivation. The disease is seldom
fatal, recovery being the rule.
The causative virus occurs in
at least three strains, but no one
of them gives immunity against
the other two, so that, despite
intensive research, no anti-
vaccine is available. The sud-
denness of the outbreaks gives
rise to various speculations
regarding the host-carrier. Sea-
gulls, starlings and hedgehogs are
all suspect, but nothing definite
is proved. Control measures
must be swift and sure. Only
ruthless killing of all diseased
cattle and burning of the
carcasses, rigid quarantine
measures and strict precautions
can stop an outbreak.
Sub.-clover
“Mr.”: Subterranean - clover
offers the best means of exten-
sive pasture-improvement in
southern Australia. It is easily
established and maintained,
greatly improves soil-fertility,
withstands hard grazing, grows
well in" association with both
perennial and annual grasses to
their mutual benefit.
Properly manured it makes
prolific growth and can double
and even treble production on
dairying and grazing country.
It is adapted to a wide range
of soils. On sandy country it
germinates and grows rapidly
after autumn rains and provides
feed early and well into the
winter. Loams suit it very much,
the plant burying its burrs freely,
and, as rain penetrates quickly
into loamy ground, rapid estab-
lishment follows autumn rams.
On loams sub.-clover stands
temporary dry spells in spring
better than in sandy soil. On
clay loams and clays, growth is
slower, and germination often
does not occur until late autumn
because the plant cannot readily
bury its burrs in heavy soil.
Super, is the all-important
fertiliser. The clover’s response
to it is vigorous and can trans-
form a field from poor grazing
into a rich pasture within a few
years. Without super, the plant
makes only stunted growth, and,
unless the fertiliser is applied
regularly, a stand of clover will
steadily weaken with the exhaus-
tion of the water - soluble
phosphate from the soil.
At Rutherglen research-station
(Vic.), super, increased the clover
yield of a test plot as follows:
Super. -Jcwt. per acre, 44.9 per
cent.; Icwt., 58.4 per cent.;
IJcwt., 70 per cent.
Established clover fields at
Rutherglen topdressed annually
with 561 b. of super, per acre
carry up to three sheep per acre
compared with a sheep per acre
on unmanured native pastures.
Back Up Stubble
“My”: Stubble lands that are
not to grow wheat for a while
will provide better feed for stock
if sown to pasture. Suitable
plants for Victorian wheat areas
are Wimmera rye-grass and
clovers, either subterranean,
native clovers or trefoils, each
at 41b. per acre. >
If bulk of feed or earliness is
desired make a light sowing of
oats 151 b. to 201 b. per acre, but
this will hold back the grass and
clovers.
On light stubble, work with a
sundercut used shallowly and
sow the seed to lin. deep with a
combine, using trailer harrows.
Heavy stubble should be burnt
before cultivation. Use up to
Icwt. of super, to the acre. If
super, is unprocurable, leave
clovers out of the mixture and
sow Wimmera rye and oats only.
Scrubland Control
The South Australian
Act of 1946 to stop wholesale
clearing of scrub by landholders
is showing results. Aimed at
forestalling erosion, this lead
has not yet been followed by
other States.
R. M. Baker, a South Aus-
tralian soil expert, says: “There’s
no hope for years of catching
up with the problems created by
the old settlers felling and firing
ad lib. But this Act will at least
prevent repetition of these soil
and cover difficulties,” The Act
makes it necessary for every
landholder to give the Soil Con-
servation Service three months’
notice of his intention to clear
scrubland.
Under the term “scrubland”
comes the best part of the whole
of the vegetative covering of a


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
—'DISTRIBUTORS ~~
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N S.W.). 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building. Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Diasol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R, P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND : Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
and
£
*%
from
THE WONDERFUL AG A
MODEL C.B.
Imagine a Cooker that is almost automatic, and
has two big hot-plates and two capacious ovens.
This amazing Cooker burns coke, yet is smokeless
and fumeless, as clean as a china-plate. It is also
superbly insulated, to keep your kitchen cool, and
it provides an ample hot water service for all kitchen
needs plus 3 hot baths a day! Comfort, ease, and
simplicity of use—all these are yours with the Aga
(Model C. 8.), in addition to guaranteed fuel
economy'
“•wo
i»... i
THE
AGA
COOKER
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for the
AGA COOKER and BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES ______ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street. Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIA
MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
SB
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
rajEii
i
DD7
y
RUJET
PREVENTS BIQWEIY STRIKE
Manufactured by Australia’s largest producers of DDT.
UUBM&N'S CHEMICALS PIY. LIMITED
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
property and the vegetation re-
maining after the cutting of trees
for firewood, posts or timber. It
does not affect the clearing of
land for firebreaks, afforestation
or the construction of public
works. In some instances the
landholder may secure permis-
sion to remove trees from a vul-
nerable area on condition that
he replants them to the satisfac-
tion of the Conservator of
Forests.
South Australian soil con-
servators are convinced that,
when it comes to large-scale
control of erosion, vegetative
cover, not windbreaks, is the
best form of protection. Their
argument is that as a soil-saver
the windbreak is effective for
only 10 to 15 times its height,
gives no protection beyond 30
times its height.
In the Mallee, where average
tree-growth is limited to 12ft.,
windbreaks give protection for
from four to five chains, and
then only when grown at right-
angles to prevailing winds. Over
the large area, therefore, the
aim must be to keep the surface
of the soil covered. Steep slopes
and sandhills where danger of
erosion is high call for cover
that will stand up to extremes
of heat and cold.
Young Pigs
“Sarina”: Temporary teeth of
piglets should drop out naturally
in time. In odd cases this shed-
ding is delayed or does not
occur, and the pigs are soon in
a bad way with inflamed tongues
and sore mouths. Neglect may
mean blood-poisoning. Obtain
a pair of tooth-forceps for
dentistry and haul out all
unwanted teeth.
Contagious pneumonia is the
worst enemy of the young pig.
The germ cannot be kept out of
the pigs’ systems, but well-fed,
carefully - managed animals
generally escape it. Keep sties
dry and hygienic, make shelters
draught-proof, feed protein-rich
tucker, allow plenty of exercise
in lucerne paddocks,
Victims cough, breathe hard,
run a high temperature, water
at nose and eyes and shiver,
Nothing can be done for
them. Pneumonia has the
effect of ruining the constitu-
tions of the majority of pigs
which survive it. It is kindness
to knock crippled pigs on the
head after a bad outbreak. The
disease is apt to stay in a
piggery unless the whole area is
gone over with strong antisep-
tics, quicklime, etc. Wooden
structures should be burned
where possible, and a new start
made on new land.
Another troublesome ailment
is rickets. The victims are very
weak and swollen in the limbs
when badly affected. Recovery
can often be brought about if
the young ones are promptly
switched to a more nourishing
diet. Rickets is caused by the
pregnant sow going short of
minerals. She is thus unable to
suitably nourish the pigs before
and after birth.
Rarely is any trouble experi-
enced when a farrowing sow
receives nourishing green-feed
and a sufficiency of lime, phos-
phorus, salt and proteins. Lime-
water greatly heightens the
food-value of whole-milk, and
makes it easier to digest.
Youngsters should always be
given at least one tablespoon of
cod-liver oil daily for the first
two months.
Bluestone
“Hortus”: Keep bluestone
(copper sulphate) about the
place. Some modern drugs have
displaced it, but they may not
be easy to procure at the needed
time.
When treating wounds on ani-
mals, if proud-flesh appears
apply powdered bluestone. If a
horse suffers from canker of
the hoof there’ll be a kind of
spongy horn on the frog, which
is foul-smelling and bleeds
easily. All dead matter should
be pared away and powdered
bluestone with chalk packed in
tightly.
Cattle sometimes suffer from
swollen feet. After fomenting
in warm water to which is added
a little washing-soda cut away
any dead skin and wash away
any discharge. Then dress with
a solution of bluestone and
water (1-40).
A satisfactory ointment for
footrot is 2oz. of finely pow-
dered bluestone and Boz. of
lard, applied once daily.
Cows on lush pastures often
get severe diarrhoea. In New
Zealand it was found that by
top-dressing pastures with 51b.
of copper sulphate per acre this
trouble was eliminated. In other
places a bluestone lick was
effective.
As a preventive against liver-
fluke finely-ground bluestone
can be broadcast over swampy
areas twice a year, not later
than November and June.
Twenty pounds, with 801 b. of
sand per acre, will do the trick.
Agriculturally and horticul-
turally all types of fungus
diseases are generally treated
with Bordeaux mixture ; sprayed
on just after pruning and again
just as pink of flower-buds
begins to show. Full strength of
the mixture is set down generally
as 6-4-50, i.e., 61b. of bluestone,
41b. of lime and 50gal. of water.
Use two wooden vessels and
then pour the two solutions
simultaneously into a third
larger barrel.
In trying to eradicate collar-
rot disease the broken or split
bark should be trimmed, and
then part of the tree should be
covered with a mixture of
of finely-crushed bluestone and
41b. of lime mixed with enough
water to make a sticky paste.
Bluestone paint is proving
effective against melanose
fungus. This paint is made in
a similar manner to Bordeaux
mixture; bluestone, ;
hydrated lime, l£lb.; and
water, 2gal.
There seems to be a defici-
ency of copper in the light sandy
soils in Gosford (N.S.W.) citrus
areas, and the trees are respond-
ing to a bluestone addition
given about August each year.
Bracken Fem
“Pterid”: As soon as the
fronds of fern unfurl and be-
come fully green they begin
manufacturing starchy material
for storage in the fleshy under-
ground-stem system as a re-
serve for subsequent develop-
ment and growth. For every
day that fern is allowed to fol-
low this storage process before
it is attacked some of the labor
of attack is lost. This is par-
ticularly so if the fern be
allowed to grow into the autumn.
Getting rid of bracken is a
long enough and doubtfully
economic job without making it
longer and more costly. Yet
that happens when it is allowed
to feed itself with stored sun-
shine to expand its underground
grip-
Where it is possible to use
rolling, cutting, slashing or bruis-
ing machines the job of arrest-
ing this development is economi-
cal only if good pasture can be
established on the land.
Complete eradication of the
fern is not required for such
establishment. The established
pasture helps considerably in
keeping the fern weakened.
Strip-Grazing
“Strip T.”: A wide differ-
ence exists between the highly-
efficient pasture utilisation of
England and New Zealand, and
the wasteful, large-paddock pas-
turing of dairy-cattle in Aus-
tralia.
In the strip-grazing practice of
England and N.Z. use of electric
fencing ensures that the dairy-
cow gets a half or a third of
her daily food needs in a fresh
and palatable state without
roaming round, wasting time
and energy, and wasting the feed
by trampling on it.
Experiments in England
showed that an increase of 25
p.c. in the milk-yield over a long
period can be got from strip-
grazing in comparison with
large-paddock grazing.
Hints for the Farm
“Hux”: One good watering
of the vegetable garden per week
is better than a light sprinkling
each day. In summer few roots
benefit by a watering that sinks
only half an inch or so into the
soil. Small quantities of water
bring roots close to the surface.
Summer habit of most plants is
to send roots deep down after
moisture that acts as their best
lifeline over prolonged heat. By
working to a watering pro-
gramme it is possible to soak all
beds to a depth of 4in. to Sin.
every week or 10 days.
“C.H.”: Rooted cuttings or
shoots of sweet-potatoes can be
planted up to the end of
January, All good soils suit
them, but they like the sandy
loams and friable types best.
Leave 3ft. to. 4ft. between drills
and 2ft. between the plants.
Prior to planting scatter equal
parts of bone-dust and super-
phosphates along the rows at
the rate of 3oz. to 4oz. per square
yard.
“Humus”: Every farmer
should have several hives of
bees. Most flowering plants need
insect - pollination, but none
more so than the pumpkin
family. Tarleton Rayment tells
of astounding increases in yield
when beehives are adjacent to
pumpkin fields. If the farmer
cannot look after the bees him-
self it isn’t hard to find an
apiarist ready to plant a hive or
two on the farm.
“C.A.A.”: Too much salt can
be injurious to pigs. Always
feed salt in dry feed. It assists
digestion and the assimilation of
food as well as improving the
palatability of the ration. Rate
is 11b. to each 1001 b. of grain
used. Better still is a mineral
mixture made up of two parts
of slaked lime or ground lime-
stone and one part of salt. Feed
this at the rate of 3 p.c. of the
grain used.
“Rooster”; The need for feed-
ing roughage is not generally
appreciated. Concentrates only
encourage fattening and early
maturity. Most calves will be-
gin to eat hay when 10 days to
a fortnight old, and should be
encouraged to eat as much as
they will. Roughage develops
cud-chewing, promotes a healthy
rumen and supplies growth-
promoting minerals and vita-
mins.
“Big Billy”: If it is desired to
clean up some unpalatable grass,
sprinkle it with molasses and
stock will eat it out.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Weak sunspot activity keeps the season irregular, and
the main rains of December have not come out in full.
There is, too, the possibility that these rains do not really
belong to this cycle, though the cyclical chart shows further
good rains about the middle of the month and again about
Christmas.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
On Manus Island
The Commonwealth Works Depart-
ment is all washed-up on Manus Island,
and some with it are packing their bags.
For. them it will be a sad day—they were
on nothing less than £2O a week, no taxes.
It was an inefficient, slow and
costly body, spending taxpayers’ money
lavishly, and nothing to show. Navy
wanted a job done —Works did not, could
not, do it. Navy complained. Works
palmed minor construction jobs over to
Navy. The jobs were completed satis-
factorily in record time, and in most cases,
at half the cost. Wojks started jeering.
Navy complained of high and unneces-
sary expenditure. Works came back with
“freight-charges, shortage of materials,
delays in shipping, overheads,” and all the
other phrases that are now cliches of any
constructional body’s conversation. So
Navy took over more jobs. Works started
sneering as well as jeering.
Navy, fed-up, introduced its own con-
struction unit. Works became snooty
and declared “We’re going home to
mother.” It’s the best thing that could
have happened. More construction will
be completed in shorter periods; less
expenditure involved in paying the
colossal wages demanded by these
tinkerers; and a personal and intimate
interest will be taken by Naval men in a
job they are willing and happy to do.
So far. Navy has done wonders, work-
ing efficiently and with a purpose. No
help came from Works, but Navy, in its
usual silent and steady manner, created
something out of the almost nothing it
had at its disposal.
With Works gone and Navy in charge,
Manus Naval Base will be closer to what
that phrase implies—a forward base
capable of defending Australia’s northern
approaches.— Giris (Manus).
More Mariners’ Meals
“E.J.P.” expressed bewilderment at
victualling arrangements in H.M.A. ships
(B. 26/11 /’52); in company with other
sailors’ wives, I have something a bit
more than bewilderment to express in
regard to a recent Treasury decision on
naval victualling.
In 1947 a provision allowance was paid
to naval men who, while serving in a
shore-establishment, had some of their
meals at home. When they shifted to a
ship, the payment’s name was changed to
separation allowance. As well, a victual-
ling allowance of 4s. 4d. a day was paid ;
but as from this month this has been
stopped, so that a rating, who must return
“on-board” by 7.30 a.m. each morning,
gets no breakfast, as of yore. The officer
is worse off —he misses out on lunch as
well.
Queen’s Regulations and Admiralty
Instructions forbid serving members
airing their grievances in the Press. That
may be a good thing—but I have no
doubt as to how a trade-unionist would
react to having his pay reduced, as in
my husband’s case, by £1 os. 4d. a week.
There is, also, the misrepresentation in
recruiting advertisements, which hold out
the inducement of “all-found.” — Sailor’s
Wife (Vic.).
Wheat Price
Sixty years of firsthand experience
growing wheat has given me some idea
of the mentality of wheat-producers, and
a better appreciation of the remarks of
“Harry the Horse” (B. 19/11/’52).
There is no reason why farmers should
not enjoy all the amenities that add to
the comforts of home life. What must
be condemned are extravagances, which,
as a contributing factor to inflation, are
matched only by the tactics of Red-
raggers and Government ineptitude.
It is not uncommon for each member
of a farm household to own a motor-
car. Wheatgrowers in surprising num-
bers are indulging in the luxury of world
tours, and it is hopeless to expect any
important rise in wheat-production until
this “itchy-feet” complaint runs its
course.
The idea that a farmer, by forming
himself into a private company, can avoid
succession duties and may escape or
minimise other forms of taxation is
sweeping the country, and lawyers,
accountants and taxation experts are
reaping a rich harvest. Those things
cannot be reconciled with the drivel being
broadcast by leaders of wheatgrowers’
organisations.—X. Cocky (S.A.).
Does the 1938 home-consumption
price of ss. 2d. for wheat, against world
parity of 2s. 5d., compensate the
farmer for the huge protective tariffs he
had to pay for, the benefit of protected
industries? Wasn’t the subsidy, in fact,
simply an effort to keep him in a posi-
tion to buy costly Australian manufac-
tures? Does the 2s. 9d. per bushel sub-
sidy to the farmer for 1938 compensate
the 1951 farmer for the loss of 12s. 6d.
per bushel?
And the London Exchange rate; The
rate was pegged back from 30 per cent,
to 25 per cent., which was a loss for the
exporter. Since then the rate has never
been free, so no one can be sure what
the real rate should be. The fact that
the present Government had to impose
import restrictions to protect London
credits suggests that the rate is far too
low, so it would appear that the farmer
is again being penalised for the benefit
of secondary industry.— Jack the Ass
(Q-).
In that home price of ss. 2d. the reward
to the farmer for his labor and skill was
computed in the formula at £125 a year
“If We don't crack a double on Sat'd'y I'll 'ave t' claim social security."
for himself and £1 per week for any son
that he had engaged on the farm.
“Harry the Horse” apparently thinks that
they should continue to carry on under
those conditions.
For many years Australian farmers
have supplied the cheapest wheat in the
world to the Australian consumers.
Having fulfilled those obligations, even
when all other citizens enjoyed rising
incomes, they reckon that it is time
prices were reviewed. In return for a
new-look in wheat prices they have sug-
gested that they are still prepared to sell
wheat to local consumers at a lower
price than overseas, provided that, when
export prices are low, consumers will then
pay a little more as a fair exchange. Has
any other section made such an offer? —
B. C. (Vic.).
Bakers’ Profits
With the authority of the price-fixing
people, our baker increased the price
of his bread by a halfpenny a loaf, and
at the same time he increased the price
of the little bread-rolls from twopence
to twopence-halfpenny-each. Talk about
bread-faced robbery!—W. P. T. (N.5.W.).-
Promotion in the P.S.
“Ann’s” suggestion (B. 29/10/’52) that
hard-and-fast application of the seniority
clause is reacting against personal effi-
ciency among public servants may be
true of State departments, but almost the
reverse obtains in Commonwealth ser-
vices ; especially in the technical sections.
Since the war, “youth must be served”
has become the fashion and seems to have
got slightly out of hand. Trustworthy,
efficient, elderly (and not-so-old) men are
watching young ex-soldiers with compara-
tively little experience going over their
heads into senior positions in an “acting”
capacity for indefinite periods.
Admittedly, right of appeal remains
available to those considering themselves
unjustly treated in the matter of pro-
motion, but an executive officer frequently
defeats such an appeal by arguing that
his man, having already proved himself
satisfactory in the position Contested,
renders abortive any objection to his
holding it. There a're variations, of
course, but this subterfuge works fairly
well. That the oldster pressing his right
of seniority might be even more capable;
than the chosen youngster carries little
weight because the chance, in an increas-
ing number of cases, is consistently if
improperly denied him.
Agreed that blindly sticking to the prin-
ciple of promotion by seniority is neither
defensible nor expedient in any sphere, but
abuse in the opposite direction is harm-
ful to staff-relations and, therefore, effi-
ciency, too. It is no secret that the dis-
appointment of hundreds of capable men
and women who carried on during the
war in lower positions, only to be deprived
of the advancement they expected as a
matter of course, has caused much of the
unrest, sloth and waste apparent in the
P.S, today,— -Postscript (N.S.W.).
Is It Silly?
I can’t inform “H.J.S.” (B. 19/11/’52)
who originated the practice of singing at
functions, “Why was he born so beauti-
ful?” It doesn’t matter, anyhow.
It is silly, if you consider the ditty as
a song or look for sense in the lyric.
But this approach is wrong. One should
not criticise the inane song, but think
of the spirit in whiqh it is sung. It is
merely a sincere expression cloaked in
fun. And if anybody is going to start
checking on all the world’s inane songs
he’s got a terrific job in front of him.
—E.L.H.S. (Vic.).
Electoral Reform
The need for electoral reform is not
confined to Victoria. All State Govern-
ments have rigged their electoral rolls to
make it as difficult as legally possible for
their opponents to depose them. In fact,
the Federal Government is the only one
in Australia which can claim to be truly
democratic, and the Electoral Reform
League’s proposal to relate State elec-
torates to Federal electorate divisions is
thus one which might well be followed
by all other States.
As suggested by The Bulletin,
12/11 /’52, it is defeatism for the Liberal
party to fear that redistribution would
put Labor Governments in power for
ever. Although the Liberals have tempor-
arily fallen from favor, it is quite pos-
sible that public fancy will swing back
in their favor within the next few years.
But it is still politically dishonest and
undemocratic to stay in office in defiance
of public opinion.
Democracy can only function effec-
tively when it maintains a delicate bal-
ance of power between Governments and
Oppositions. Our Federal Parliament
provides ample evidence of this. In 1949
it was a simple matter for the people to
oust an unpopular Government in Can-
berra, It will be just as easy for the
people to change their minds at the next
general elections if they wish. Whatever
the faults of this system, it has one out-
standing advantage—it ensures that
Governments govern for the majority, or
take the consequences. But State elec-
tors are denied that desirable and neces-
sary power.
In Queensland and N. S. Wales Labor
has retaliated against previous Govern-
ments which sought to keep themselves
in office permanently by redistributing
electorates in their own favor; in South
Australia (and until recently, in Victoria)
it has been virtually impossible for the
people to elect Labor Governments with
a majority in both Houses.
Admittedly S.A. has been fortunate.
While it has not got a democratically-
elected Parliament, it has been governed
wisely and well, due largely to the efforts
of its popular Premier, Mr. Playford. But
should he decide to enter the Common-
wealth Parliament there is little doubt
that the people of S.A. would desire a
change of Government. Their chances
of getting it are remote, as the com-
position of both Houses shows. The
House of Assembly, consisting of 39
members, has only 13 members to repre-
sent metropolitan constituents, who num-
ber 60 per cent, of the total voters.
Country voters—only 40 per cent, of the
total —are represented by 26 members.
In the Legislative Council the position
is even worse. Because of the property
qualification only 168,563 voters out of
446,141 on the rolls are eligible to vote
for the Upper House. Although S.A. was
the first colony to confer the franchise
on women, this right has been abrogated
by the property qualification which pre-
vents about 70 per cent, of women from
voting for the Legislative Council.
Further, only eight of its members repre-
sent the city, as against 12 country mem-
bers. As a result, Labor has never con-
trolled the Upper House and never will
under the present system.
All attempts to rectify this unjust posi-
tion have been quickly, outvoted by both
Houses, so the L.-C.-L. Government could
not be removed no matter how badly it
governed.
Those who oppose a more equitable
distribution of seats claim that country
electors have a greater stake in the
country than city-dwellers, and, there-
fore, deserve a stronger voice in Parlia-
ment. That argument is about as reason-
able as to say the smaller States should
have twice the representation in the
Senate of the more populous States.
This old problem of city versus country
interests could be solved by the same
sensible method used in the Federal
Parliament to safeguard the interests of
the smaller States—give them equal
representation in the Upper House. Then
State Governments would have to shape
their policies to win support from both
city and 1 country electors. .Any party
which tried to favor one section at the
expense of the other would soon find
itself out of office—W. M. H. (S.A.).
The Minor Elements
In arguing that closer-settlement of
the better-rainfall areas of southern Aus-
tralia ought to be abandoned for con-
centration on opening up! the Far North
and other sparsely-settled areas, “Dick
Turpin” (B. 15/10/’52) ignored the recent
discoveries in connection with what are
termed “minor” elements.
Addition of these elements to poor soils
greatly improves them. Substantial areas
of land in the older settled regions of
Australia that hitherto have been of little
value 5 are being made productive. The
A.M.P. Society has successfully applied
the technique in South Australia, and
David Kentish, B.Sc., the society’s, agri-
cultural scientist, has reported promising
results from experiments near Wyong
(N.S.W.).
It is estimated that in the N.S.W.
coastal belt alone there are at least H
million acres, nearly all located within the
30-50-inch rainfall area, that should
respond to treatment with minor elements.
Those lands are all close to markets
and served by well-developed road- and
rail-systems. It would cost far less to
bring" them into productivity than to
extend settlement in the far outback. —
Economist (N.S.W.V
Open Areas x
After allowing many of the loveliest
beauty-spots on Sydney Harbor to be
blotted by the worst kind of industrial
desecration, we are now trying to set aside
as open areas hundreds of acres of waste-
land, to overcome the desolation of which
many years of effort and many thousands
of pounds would have to be expended.
It is a crime to crowd a city on to
every available foot of land, leaving no
park or garden space to relieve the eye
and afford a breath of open air. But to
shut up great spaces of barren sandhills
or unkempt scrub is running to a foolish
extreme. From Kurnell to Coogee the
coastline is disfigured by these reserves,
which offer little attraction to anyone.
Many of them are the best possible
building-sites, and their reservation is
holding up housing and the progress of a
number of centres. They are also an
encumbrance to councils, which cannot
possibly undertake their improvement;
Under settlement they would make-a con-
tribution to rates and business progress.—
G. A. B. (N.S.W.).


TRUE PATRIOTS ALL
by Geoffrey C. Ingleton
Told in the quaint language of the day, this rich and rare collection of
broadsides belonging to the years between 1785—185 5 gives us unique
news of early Australia. With 32 full-page facsimiles, 97 other illustrations.
42/- (post 1/-)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C,l
For Your Christmas Book List
THE STRUGGLE FOR EUROPE
WINDOM’S WAY
CAMPBELL’S KINGDOM
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
Chester Wilmot 355.
James Ramsay Uliman 16s.
Hammond Innes 13s. 6d.
13s. 6d.
COLLINS
Catherine Gaskin
Available from all Booksellers.
PUBLISHERS
Latest Australian Publications
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
NATIONALISM AND COMMUNISM IN EAST ASIA, by W. Macmahon Ball Inter-
pretations of situations and reactions in East Asia. 82 x s|. 210 pages. 3 maps.
Clotli binding. Melbourne University Press. 25/-.
DAVID AND HIS AUSTRALIAN FRIENDS, by Enid Bell. A cbildren’s story.
9j x 32 pages. 21 illustrations. Paper boards. Ure Smith I ty. Ltd.,
Sydney. 7/0.
THE FIRST AUSTRALIANS, by Ronald M. and Catherine H. Berndt. An introduction
to the aborigines. 84 x 54. 144 pages. 40 illustrations, 1 map. Cloth binding.
Ure Smith Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 17/0.
GEOROE BASS 1770-1803, by Keith Macrae Bowden. First biography of the discoverer
of Bass Strait. 8} x sf. 184 pages. 12 illustrations, 3 maps. Clotli binding.
Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 21/-. .
ROAMING ROUND THE DARLING, by Francis Patrick Clune. (Revised edition.)
Travel in western N.S.W. 81 x 54. 232 pages. 16 illustrations, 1 endpaper map.
Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 18/-.
SAMMY SILVERFISH, by Sheila Dean. (Mullens’ stories for children, ages 8-9, No,
204). 7 x 4J. 32 pages. 4 illustrations. Paper cover. Robertson & Mullens Ltd.,
Melbourne. 1/6.
TASMANIA BY ROAD AND TRACK, by Evelyn Temple Emmett. Observations and
recollections, walking and climbing. 84 x 54- 170 pages. 19 illustrations. 1
endpaper map. Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press. 12/6. ,
DRIFT OF LEAVES, by John Fairfax Collected writings 8* x s|.
90 pages. 18 illustrations. Cloth binding. Ire Smith Pty. Ltd., Sydney. R/6.
THE RED CENTRE, by H. H. Elnlayson, Man and beast in the heart of Australia.
94 x 6|. 139 pages. 51 illustrations. 1 folding map. Cloth binding. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN LONELINESS, by Ernestine Hill. (Third edition.)
Travel 82 x sf. 346 pages. 21 illustrations, endpaper map. Cloth binding.
Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 25/-.
AIRCRAFT OF TODAY AND TOMORROW, by J. H. and W. D. Martin. A popular
book of modern aircraft, 9f x 74. 4 colour and 250 half-tone illustrations. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 30/-
OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA: Second book. A
basic English teaching course for use in the Melanesian area of the I aciflc. <4 x o*.
64 pages. 390 illustrations. Manilla cover. Oxford University I ress, Mel
bourne. 1/10. , , ,
OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA : Second bobk
Teacher’s Notes. A teacher’s manual tor use with the second book in this course.
74 x 54. 88 pages. Manilla cover. Oxford University Press. Melbourne. 3/6.
MICHAEL FLANNIGAN AND HIS COW, by Phyllis M. Power. (Mullens Stories for
Children, ages 10-12. No. 403.) 7 x 4J. 94 pages. 2 illustrations. Paper cover.
Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 4/-.
THE STORY OF A CARPET BAG, by Phyllis M. Power. (Mullens’ Stories for
Children, ages 10-12, No. 402.) 7 x 4f. 85 pages. 2 illustrations. Paper cover.
Robertson & Mullens, Ltd., Melbourne. 4/-.
COME AWAY, PEARLER, by Colin Simpson. A novel set in Northern Australia.
8f x 54. 248 pages. 6 decorations. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd.,
Sydney. 16/-.
TETHER A DRAGON, by Kylie Tennant. First prize Commonwealth Play Competi-
tion. 8| x 54. 136 pages. 4 illustrations. Cloth binding. Associated General
Publications Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
THE CHALLENGE, by Edward Vivian Timms. A novel of gold discovery in Australia.
82 x 54- 316 pages. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney, lb/-.
RALPH RASHLEIGH, by James Tucker. Edited with introduction and notes by Colin
Roderick, M.A. With bibliography and appendix. Original edition Ilf x (4.
408 pages. 10 illustrations, 1 endpaper map. Buckram binding. £3/3/-. Popular
edition. 8f x 54. 320 pages. 1 endpaper map. Cloth binding. 18/9. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney.
OLD BOOKS, OLD FRIENDS, OLD SYDNEY, by James Tyrrell. Reminiscences
of a well-known bookseller. 10 x 74. 193 pages. 7 pages of illustrations, 2 endpaper
maps. Buckram binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 42/-.
THE AUSTRALIAN ROADSIDE, by Edna Walling. A collection of new photographs
of Australian roadside scenes. 92 x 7J. 124 pages. 83 plates. Cloth binding,
Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 30/-.
camellia TRAIL by E. G. Waterhouse. De Luxe signed and numbered edition of
* 1000 copies. 13 x‘ 10. 88 pages. 21 colour plates. Cloth binding. Ure Smith
Pty. Ltd., Sydney. £lO/10/-.
The Australian Book Publishers’ Association
allowed inside. Then searchlights and
scores of guns opened simultaneously.
Within two minutes the attack had been
annihilated, with all craft shattered. Thus
ended the third lesson.
Even in the face of these disasters
Borghese and his men persisted. They
drew first blood at Suda Bay, in Crete.
There two E-boats sneaked in, sighted
Sin. cruiser York, and opened up to full
speed. The pilots flung themselves over-
board. Seconds later half a ton of high-
explosive savaged York’s plates.
Elated, the Tenth Flotilla had its third
crack at Alexandria. With terrible
courage three human-torpedoes slid in
through the boomgate, half-crushed every
few minutes by depth-charges from alert
patrolboats, wormed their way under the
bilges of the two battleships and fixed
their charges. Captured, they were placed
in a compartment far down and close to
danger in the Queen Elizabeth’s bilges.
Resistant to all questioning, even though
acutely aware of their dangerous posi-
tion, they waited. Then the battleships
reared violently from the water. One
frogman, with commendable zeal, opened
the porthole of bis prison to allow more
water in as the great ship listed. It was
not needed.
In addition to these sub-surface goings-
on in the eastern Mediterranean, the
frogmen were busy in Gibraltar harbor-
sinking, mainly with limpet-mines, close
on 100,000 tons of British shipping.
Though the book is told with typically
flowery assertions of patriotism, and
though Borghese is a trifle patronising
towards the British Navy’s equivalent arm
(“its equipment showed very serious
technical shortcomings”—this of the craft
which sank several major Jap warships
in Singapore and blew open the battle-
ship Tirpitz), the story is so crammed
with adventurous incident that the manner
of its telling really matters very little.
MACNELL.
The Hansom-cab Mystery
Picking a possible best-seller or a
/classic is as chancy as finding a Phar Lap
or a Dalray. Who would have thought
circa 1887-88 that the sales of The
Mystery of a Hansom Cab, published in
1886, would reach astronomical figures,
and the simple story classical rank, with
the only known copy of the first edition
a treasure of the Mitchell Library?—one
of the two or three Australian novels,
so far, to make the grade in the univer-
sality sternly demanded of colonial wares.
A gauge of its success came in a full-
length parody as early as 1888, seriously
published in book-form, which ran to
two editions at least. This was announced
as a bloodcurdling romance and entitled
The Mystery of a Wheelbarrow, or
Gaboriau Gaborooed, an Idealistic Story
of a Great and Rising Colony, by W.
Humer Ferguson. (Is the identity of the
parodist known?)
The parodist pokes fun at Gaboriau,
whom Fergus Hume claimed as his
pattern, and follows the original story
with pedestrian faithfulness: in the open-
ing line the “Argus” becomes the “Mel-
bourne Daily Muddler.” A Roysterer
with a confiscated wheelbarrow and a
man in it proceeding in “tranquil zigzags
down Collins-street East” is confronted
by the Burke and Wills statue moving in
a strange way, and next the Scottish
church puts itself in an offensive manner
in front of him.
This must have been good fun at the
time, though flat now, while the original
continues to hold its own. Visiting uni-
versity professors, when circulating in
literary puddles here, still confess, with
surety that the joke will be on us, that
the reading of it twenty years before or
not at all till destiny brought them hither
was their sole knowledge that Australia
aspired to a literature. This attitude has
recently stung me to reduce my own
illiteracy by borrowing a copy of the
famous work from Mr. J. K. Moir,
I am not endowed with a taste for
detective-stories, but some twenty years
ago curiosity drove me to open a few
because among my friends an intellectual
like John A. Hobson refreshed himself
at such a fount, and Mary Fullerton, the
sensitive lyricist, was so interested in
crime that she set about writing a full
and meaty whodunit, The Murders at
Crab-apple Farm, published in London in
the ’thirties.
“Begin with Trent’s Last Case,” advised
an addict. I brought to this a mind un-
familiar with even Sherlock Holmes and
Dr. Watson. That made no impression
on me, so I tried Edgar Wallace, then at
the top, with his novel The Ringer being
emphatically held-up in the literary
columns of the “Observer” as a perfect
model of its kind. It was unbearably
dull, even stupid. I then addressed my-
self to a case by Hercule Poiret and
another by Lord Peter Wimsey, both
slightly brighter, and I was content to
desist, feeling that my lack of mechanical
ability stood in the way of entertainment
from this source.
However, examples cannot be evaded
on the stage or over the air. Years later
I collided with one by Peter Cheyney
disporting itself in the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” which members of my family
have continued to read from its first
copy to the latest. I did not fatally
succumb to asphyxiation from the
alcoholic fumes from which the unpleasant
murders must have been brewed.
In my morning journal came another
specimen by Max Murray, piously under-
gone because by an Australian, which
seems as bright as an ersatz penny. Lying
around during the war as sustenance for
the G.l.s was Ngaio Marsh’s Died in the
Wool, in which the mechanics seemed up
to scratch and the tussocky and woolly
atmosphere provided amelioration.
Again in the “Sydney Morning Herald”
was The Death of a Swagman by Arthur
Upheld, and set right in New South
Wales. The setting was something to be
lapped-up, every dusty track and tree.
In addition, the detective was an alluring
novelty, a man of aboriginal origin with
blue eyes and an engaging personality
so that he could bring endearing little
girls to his aid and conduct his cases
in the open all over Australia with a
minimum of slaughter and, to me, more
entertainment than in other examples.
My unsophisticated rating of this prac-
titioner is high and is supported by his
commercial success abroad, and Penguin
status.
Thus to our valiant old cab. Despite
its datedness in the cockshy landlady and
the slum denizens, after Dickens, with
the unsatisfactory quality of all imitation,
I find the cab as good as any met in my
limited researches. It should be a
Penguin, too.
MILES FRANKLIN.
Aircraft of Today and Tomorrow:
J. H. and W. D. Martin (Angus and
Robertson). A large illustrated book by
the authors of a previous tome on trains.
All kinds of aircraft, with a particular
eye on what flies in Australia, also what
light aeroplanes are suitable for private
owners here. For the airminded and
mechanically-minded adult or boy.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 204
Across.
I Thus mother has the trunk of
an animal hacking an Old Testa-
ment prophet. (4)
3 —Square-dealing flat. (2, 3,5)
9 Greek capital at the top of the
column. (5)
in A place for hacking a putrid
squabble. (6, 3)
Y 2 Yours Truly distributes the caids
according to these theoretical
standards of perfection. (6)
<3 S a l is sometimes qualified in this
way with bullets and shells back-
ing a Biblical murderer. (8)
27 Hand half of the tropical fruit.
(3)
28 Endures cobbling equipment. (5)
20—Station stampede a score for
cricketing livestock. (6, 3)
73 Swagmen introduce Virginia and
Georgia to Government securi-
ties. (9)
Sable contains a Swiss city. (5)
27 —Fuss in 8.C.0.? (3)
2g -Free 51 and scold. (8)
29—Smoke obtained from kindling.
Gael bones broken by the
3 wowserish. (4-5)
34 -Hope comes to an inverted
potentate. (5)
35 Business and mirth fighting with
the teeth living together. (10)
36 —Joke is spoilt by an island off
Korea. (4)
Down.
1— The supernatural plane and a
bricklayer’s gadget with gump-
tion like 3 across. (6, 5)
2 North among the vermin to
make a hash of it. (5)
4 No British fleet for this Teutonic
demigoddess. (4)
5 Where the golf ball lands a
fisherman’s tale. (3)
6 Opera composer with the late
king is copper acetate. (9)
7 Depressed cartoonist. (3)
8— Castigates the frigid in the
steamer. (6)
11—Lure met up with physical tram-.
ing- (5) , ' '
14— Paraguay tea for a cobber end
of an indoor game. (4)
15 — Hooter who disturbs 7 down. (3)
16— French story over the horse’s
quarters may be disputed. (11)
19 —Wise skirmish where cowboys
roam. (9)
21 — Used too much by writers with
conjunctivitis? (3)
22 Fish up a finish for the musical
movement. (4)
24 — Taproom detail in the view of a
man with convictions. (3)
25 — Tenners made by tenors. (5)
26—Clever by the ends of the down-
pour. (6)
30 — Shakspeare’s Launcelot notes an
American sailor with some per-
sonal unpleasantness. (5)
31— Ring with a lot of noise to make
this god appear. (4)
32 Bill in France. (3)
33 Cop. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 203


A TRIBUTE TO
“Seldom does the ordinary man
have the opportunity to pay a tang-
ible tribute to a greater one, On
seeing this Eisenhower cartoon en-
titled s The New Atlas 9 in the
bulletin of November 12, I was
so impressed that 1 asked permission
of the *Bulletin to use it as the
cover of 6 Hastings Veering's Ford
News\ A facsimile of this
cover is shown at right. This re-
mains as a permanent record oj
my admiration and respect for a
great soldier and a fine man ”
f
m
SR
G
tnq’i
I
"f-
-m
mm
' ■ V
the new
atlas
rv*
• *
- -y n
'-I
I r
I* )
f.-V
■v
'yr
FEATURES TO APPEAR IN
* ISSUED MONTHLY
SPECIAL PHOTOGRAPHS by Mr. H. Hastings
Deering.
WORKS LIKE THE ANCIENTS!
He's a goldbeater, and his art has changed
little over the ages.
COURT ADJOURNED WHILE HE BATHED.
He was a Moslem of course! Many races have
strict conditions for oath-taking.
CASH IN ON THE FAMILY NAME!
—And on the spelling, too. Really, there's a
LOT in a name.
TWENTY CATS MADE MUSIC!
Many hinds of animals feature in music, from
elephants downwards.
THEY MAKE EARTHQUAKES TO FIND OIL.
Petroleum is a nation's lifeblood, and it’s
often a life and death struggle to get it.
WONDERS OF LONDON.
Americans have credited London with ten
wonders!
BOY SCOUT TROOP FOR HANDICAPPED
YOUTHS.
"You can't keep a good boy down"—even if
he's crippled!
A KING'S DREAM COMES TRUE.
It's a Diesel Railcar for the Arabian desert.
BRAZIL—A JOURNEY THROUGH TIME
—by airliner. "Brazil's covered waggon."
STRONG. SILENT MEN.
All their life they helped others silently.
THERE'S MONEY IN SPIDER WEB.
—And worms, eagles, musk rats, frogs! Yon
wouldn't read about it!
FINDING HIDDEN TREASURE.
Nuggets, diamonds, silver dishes. Are you
treasure-minded?
MAGIC FROM UNDER THE EARTH.
Minerals and metals are working miracles In
industry.
CARTOONS FROM EVERYWHERE!
A BARBER INVENTED "SEA LAMP-POSTS"
-—meaning, of course. Lightships.
LONELIEST MAN IN THE WORLD.
They found him somewhere in Greenland.
2,500 MILES IN AN AERO-TAXI.
SHE BROKE THE MEDICAL CLOSED SHOP.
She was America's first woman doctor.
★ WRITE TO HASTINGS PEERING
LTD. for 12 months' subscrip*
tion form or ring M 0412 for
12 issues at 12/- post free.
m
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
William Street, Sydney. Crown Street
Corner.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney. M 0412 (33
