

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
'
t
OUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3780
w
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MANY-COLUMNED TOWERS IDENTIFY BELFAST’S CITY HALL
BET FAST, the capital of Northern Ireland, is divided between the counties
of Antrim and Down by the River Lagan, just above its outflow into
Belfast Lough. This busy, modern city owes its rapid growth in size and
prosperity to the many important industries established there in the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries, chief among them being the linen trade, shipbuilding,
engineering, tobacco and rope manufacture. Belfast’s shipbuilding yards are
world-famous, for in them have been built many of the largest and most
luxurious liners. The city covers an area of twenty-three square miles, and
has a population of some 450,000.
The status of capital is a new one, dating from the division of Ireland
in 1921. It was then that the six counties of Antrim, Down, Londonderry,
Tyrone Armagh and Fermanagh accepted a constitution of their own while
remaining an integral part of the United Kingdom. Belfast has thus become
the seat of Parliament and Government housed in a massive building on the
outskirts. With the power to develop its own resources, Northern Ireland has
kept abreast of the times, and Belfast continues to reflect the impressive
achievements of its citizens.
There is justifiable pride in the voice of an Ulsterman when he speaks
of Belfast, for it is a city with many fine buildings. One of the chiet
architectural features is the City Hall, pictured above, a huge, classical
building facing Donegall Square. It was designed by Sir Brum well Thomas,
and built in 1906 on the site of the old Linen Hall. The massive central
dome rises to a height of 175 feet, and among the outstanding features
of the building are the columned entrance hall and the great
which contains magnificent examples of marble brought from Italy, Gieece
and the Island of Emboea in the Tigcan.


ŵ
jm
at HOME
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL-———
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your Illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.852) Age
THE RIDGE
AND THE RIVER,
by T. A. G. Hungerford
Australia’s finest fighting novel-
the story of a Commando patrol in
the Islands in World War 11.
16/- (post 7d.)
TRIAL BY TERROR,
by Paul Gallico
(author of The Snow Goose)
A tense, fiction-form exposure of
Red “justice” and the way in which
Red experts obtain “confessions.”
16/- (post 9cL)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney s s 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
The Red Page
FRAGMENTS OF JOHN.
One of the most pleasing moments for
an Australian reader in Augustus John’s
Chiaroscuro; Fragments of Auto-
biography (Faber) is the glimpse of
Fonder in France;
Seated in the village cafe with a bottle of
Pernod at his elbow, used both for its
refreshing qualities and as a medium for
his brush, he painted fans, filling the silken
fabric before him with compositions illus-
trative of the Commedia dell’Arte or
Verlaine’s Fetes Galantes. His elegant
figures, posturing in a moon-blue ambience,
had recaptured from Watteau or St. Aubin
a romantic languor which owed nothing to
the rusticity of his surroundings, nor
recalled in any way his upbringing on an
Australian sheep range [Vc] 1 prefer,
myself, his seaside pictures painted at
Dieppe, Swanage or Brighton. Some of
these, in my opinion, are better than any-
thing of the kind by Whistler or anyone
else.
But the mild charm of this paragraph
is hardly typical of John’s comments on
other artists. He liked Orpen in their
early days and joined with him in setting
up a school of art in Chelsea: but then
they parted company, and “Orpen, with
his infinite capacity for avoiding pains,
soon made a success of his portrait-
painting.” He praises Wyndham Lewis’s
novels but is biting on his games of
artistic power-politics; and says, “It
seemed to me clear that there could be
no future, as there was no past, for
Futurism.” He regards Picasso with very
mixed feelings:
His explorations have led him to stylistic
exercises which at first sight disturb or
even horrify but which, on analysis, reveal
elements derived from remote antiquity or
the art-forms of primitive peoples. Such
contacts which might conceivably have
imbued his style with a primordial fresh-
ness seem to have become infected in the
process of assimilation by a bizarre and
morbid strain, as if the painter were labor-
ing under the effects of a drug. This con-
dition, which seems to be chronic, makes
it possible for him to invest the most
innocent aspects of nature with a dream-
like, not to say nightmarish, character,
though it by no means excludes a percep-
tion of grandeur and poetry.
Perhaps only in his treatment of children
does Picasso drop his mask. At one period
Daumier’s grandeur of spirit, before which
this artist necessarily bowed, inspired him
to execute a series of designs which, while
recalling his great exemplar, are imbued
with a strain of sentiment all his own: the
great Saltimbanque now reappears sadly
wasted by t.b.; the old mendicant, appar-
ently no longer in full possession of his
faculties, listlessly plucks at the loose
strings of his guitar; an idiot boy gazes
out on a blue and empty world; a pseudo-
classic woman attends abstractedly to her
unlikely br00d....
In a later stage the artist, at the behest
of his perverse daemon, contrives stylistic
modes of no known source, which seem
to illustrate the torments of the unconscious
in a series of flamboyant, obscene and
highly convoluted simulacra. If his earlier
cubistic experiments now appear to me
unamusing, I cannot forget the power, wit
and ingenuity which subjugated me once
as I faced a two-dimensional adumbration
of the Commedia dell’Arte, and I have
nothing but admiration for his zoological
studies and his recent experiments in
pottery.
Such ceaseless industry, leading to a
torrent of articles de nouveaute, may seem
to some capricious and rootless, but it
undoubtedly deserves its reward in the
greatest snob-following of our time....
The secret of this master is, perhaps, hinted
at in his own words: Je deteste la nature.
John’s own attitude to nature comes
much later in the book:
we must seek the corrective in an
immediate return to nature and simplicity;
thus may we find fulfilment as, abasing
ourselves, we drink at the inexhaustible
source of all goodness, truth and beauty,
besides many less desirable things.
Though John is obviously trying to
soothe Picasso’s wounded feelings in
some of these remarks there is at the
same time a forthrightness—in fact, a
pugnacity—in his criticism; and in the
contradictions, which you find again in
the notes on Modigliani, Rousseau and
even Van Gogh, there is a refreshing
naturalness: like a man thinking aloud
and finding out what he really thinks as
he goes along. Those qualities of fresh-
ness and forthrightness, along with a
sardonic humor, invigorate the auto-
biography all the way through.
There is the painter’s childhood when,
with the two evangelical aunts who
brought him up, he travelled the country-
side in a wickerwork pony-trap known
locally as “the Hallelujah Chariot,” and
took note of tramps who slept for warmth
among the limekilns and sometimes
asphyxiated themselves. There are hairy
fishermen in Cornwall and, so he says, a
glimpse one day of the magic island of
Tir-nan-Ogue rising from the sea.
There are days at the Slade under
Tonks and Wilson Steer; a meeting with
Oscar Wilde, with the comment that
Wilde was wise to choose jail rather than
“freedom in the company of Frank
Harris” ; a visit to Ireland to paint W. B.
Yeats (in which, by some mischance of
memory, John doesn’t paint Yeats but
G. B. Shaw, who “talked too much”); an
astonishingly dispassionate account of the
painter’s son Henry, who, after abandon-
ing his studies for the priesthood, was
drowned in the sea off Cornwall; a pro-
longed and slightly evasive comedy con-
cerning Strindberg’s widow, whose devo-
tion to the painter drove him to desperate
expedients to escape ; scenes in America,
where he painted Governor Fuller (who
had signed the death-warrant of Sacco
and Vanzetti; John himself appears to
be some kind of anarchist in his politics)
and then went to the movies with the
Governor and watched him weep at an
A 1 Jolson film ; a bit of spiritualism when
the actress Eve Balfour shows him her
luminous fingers—-“ They positively
streamed with light” ; the celebrated row
over the portrait of the late Lord Lever-
hulme when his Lordship, not liking the
rest of the painting, cut the head out of
the canvas; some gipsies and caravan-
life in England, much travel on the Con-
tinent; and a lot of characteristically
impulsive occasions when the painter,
suddenly overcome with overwhelming
distaste for some friend’s company—in a
London street, on a mountain in Wales,
on a walking-tour in France —simply
walks off and vanishes with his beard
into the blue like some capricious hob-
goblin ... his companions might have
been pardoned for wondering whether
he was ever really with them at all; and
probably, as an artist, he wasn’t.
As a whole the book is very much
like John’s painting : scrappy, hasty, un-
finished, with many bare patches—and
witty, ruthless, brilliant and above all full
of vitality: his genius has flowed out into
the unfamiliar medium of words as
naturally as it does onto canvas. It is,
of course, practically compulsory read-
ing for anyone interested in the arts, and
it is not often we get an autobiography,
whether compulsory or not, one tenth as
lively.
THE MOTHER.
Seeing her child shaken
By grief and wild passion
She knew again the tumult.
The storm that beat her branches
And stripped her of green graces
So many years ago.
How like a bird from heaven
Came then her dancing daughter,
A bird that rests from flying
Upon the sheltering branches
And stirs the tree’s remembrance
Of sweet and rainy spring.
She has spun a garment
Of words for her daughter,
A coat she will throw over
To shelter her from evil.
From love, from life’s mischances,
And keep her by her side.
But love knows no delaying
And grief will come too early:
She lacked the words to finish
The woven coat of comfort
And so her grieving daughter
Wears yet one wild bird’s wing.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
New Caledonians.
Judy Fallon of Sydney has made a
charming book of her stay in New
Caledonia with her photographer-
husband, Jo: Pacific Pantomime
(Melrose) ; it glows like a tropic fish with
the affection the author bears for the
fortunate Mr. Fallon.
She also has the Australian gift of
reportage, as in her account of the long
trip from Noumea to Hienghene, where
she and the furious truck-driver took
turns at reciting La Fontaine’s “The Fox
and the Crow” in the original; and she
has a really remarkable ability to render
other people’s stories with their exact
tone and inflection, as in the long story
of Mephisto, the old French Army
charger, as told by their young Noumean
acquaintance, Pierre —it is so right that
one might imagine Mr. Fallon had photo-
graphed it.
After some preliminary skirmishings
over the island, and witnessing the adven-
tures of the intrepid Dr. Ferron, an under-
water fisherman, among sharks and gropers
with jaws 18in, wide, the Fallons settled
down in a cottage accorded them by the
French Institute of Scientific Research —
the buildings of the American Naval
Hospital, handed over after the war —and
there they entertained their friends, Rose
and Pierre, and an American naval officer,
and some Noumean ratings, and a New
Zealand engineer, and tried to avoid the
feud between the biologists and geologists
of the institute, and were invited by
Javanese on the island to Javanese dances,
until the King of Rangoon (i.e., Mr.
Bill Hudson, the Sydney journalist)
dropped in off a plane and suggested it
was time' they went home.
Mrs. Fallon has severe things to say
about New Caledonian cooking, which is
generally “Tonkinese,” and not French ;
and about the way the French are letting
the improvements the Americans made to
the island during the war run to ruin.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Swiss Summer: Stella Gibbons
(Longmans). In this novel by the author
of Cold Comfort Farm the humor is
very quiet, mostly of situation and
malicious observation on all that occurs
when the aged widow of a famous English
mountain-climber suggests that a young
English wife should accompany her com-
panion, Mrs. Blandish, to her late hus-
band’s chalet high in the Swiss Alps.
* * * *
The Mystery of Dead Lovers : Maurice
Collis (Faber). This is the story of a
spiritual princess who appears in a dream
to a young king; he goes seeking her.
She, abandoned by her royal father be-
cause of prophecies soothsayers have
made about her, has been brought up in
a village; she also is seeking her lover;
she journeys to ask questions of a holy
man. King and princess meet by a
stream; they go together to a little
cottage, and there she talks to him about
herself until he falls asleep. Afterwards
they return to his palace, where he mstals
her as his queen. But conspiracies have
been set afoot, and a princess whom the
young king has scorned has sent her
executioner to deal with him ; the ne w
queen drinks the poison intended for her
lord, and there an end. Mr. Collis has
introduced the story as a play presented
by wandering Eastern players, and cer-
tainly the prose is airy and spiritual;
nevertheless it is the kind of thing that
could not be at its best outside poetry.
The illustrations are pen-drawings and
paintings in black and brown tone.
Eastern and evocative, by Mr. Cawthra
Mulock.
* * * *
The Spell: Gustav Brener (Shakespeare
Head). A beautiful young Austrian girl
married to a young Jew has escaped to
New York with him and her rich mother-
in-law, Her husband dies; she decides
to take her little son back to de-Nazified
Austria. On her father’s small estate she
falls for a handsome and devilish skiing
instructor who has been using her cottage
as a playroom for American occupation-
troops. She is practically unmoved when
she finds that the instructor is a leader
in the re-forming of Nazi cells among
the Austrian countryfolk. Then at last
it is demonstrated to her that he was
formerly a German concentration-camp
commandant, responsible for beastly
atrocities against her husband’s people,
and before that a Nazi official to whom
her mother-in-law had crawled on her
knees for the life of another son, who
was subsequently sent off to the gas-
chambers, Her feelings upon making this
discovery are rather well worked-out; it
is an unusual novel, but only that.
Echo My Tears: Jan Foster-(Shake-
speare Head). Starting practice in a
township on an American lake, a young
psychiatrist grows interested in a doctor’s
daughter who is only half-alive, and runs
away with her hands to her ears from
any loud noise. Gradually he discovers
that as a child she had pointed a pistol
at her mother and pulled the trigger. The
book develops as a mystery, more and
more of the townspeople—doctors,
nurses, servants, etc. —being pulled into it
as the psychiatrist tries to piece together
the happenings on the day of the shoot-
ing ; and although the key to the mystery
will be immediately apparent to the expert
reader of detective-stories, the solution
has the advantage of both surprise and
feasibility.
* * * *
Chinese Art: Leigh Ashton and Basil
Gray (Faber). The term “art” is here
understood in a wide sense, to include
banners, pottery, sculpture, jade figures,
silk textiles and even the Great Wall of
China as well as paintings: the idea is to
demonstrate in black-and-white repro-
ductions, with brief commentary, the total
culture of China, arranged period by
period instead of the usual organisation
in museums and art-books into collections
of the different mediums. The reader
interested primarily in the arts rather than
the crafts will wish for more reproduc-
tions like Lin Liang’s superbly fiery and
feather “Phoenix,” Ch’en Jung’s sur-
realist “Dragon,” the misty grey crag in
some unknown 14th-century painter’s
“Mountain Landscape” and the “Bod-
hisattva” sculpture of the T’ang Dynasty
with its lovely flowing line showing the
influence of Indian sculpture; but the
pottery, of course, has its own special
charm; and the arrangement by periods,
with the lucid and scholarly notes, will be
invaluable to the serious student. The
book, beautifully produced, has been
revised from the 1935 edition.
* ♦ * ♦
The Arnhem Treasure: H. A. Lindsay
(Waninga Press), A book of adventure
for children by the author of The Bush-
man’s Handbook, who helped soldiers to
live off the land, this story, set in Western
Australia, does not fail to bring in
bardie-grubs as picnic-delicacies, and dig-
ging up the roots of trees for water in
apparently waterless territory, as taught
by an old black grandmother and her
young grandson. There is also some
blacktracking, and a climax of the find-
ing, in an aboriginal-ritual cave blocked
by a stone and covered with the drop-
pings of bats, the treasure of a Dutch
ship, the Arnhem, wrecked some 150
years before. Expert in city jungles as
well as those further out, Mr. Lindsay
points out that when the Government’s
buccaneers have taken the State’s whack
of the treasure-trove there is not a great
deal left for the discoverers ; and is a
little hurt on the dustcover to find that
real life had copied his legal prognostica-
tions before he could get his book out—
it had been completed, he says, six
months before two Victorian children
found a hoard of sovereigns, “and all the
legal complications which arose out of
the Victorian ease had already been
worked out by the author.”
THE GREY GULLY.
Somewhere a whip-bird calls.
Somewhere the water falls.
There's a cloud on the sun
In a grey gully;
Sing shine; the sun make bright
Wet leaves with sparkling light.
Two on a cold wet rock , ,
Sit talking. Shadows mock
That love’s been told
Too much for telling:
Sing warm, the sun; the shrouds
Of cold have wrapped them round.
One thousand tiny things
Fly nowhere on liny wings.
There’s a purple llower ,
On a short vine:
Sing low; the -sun grow small
Lest rays of pain downfall.
O a brisk south wind has rent
The cloud and downward bent
One tattered corner. .jj
From south to north
The cloud is slowly torn
And upwards, fresh, new-born
The sun comes
To the grey gully: i-
Sing joy; and flashing bright
The leaves grow warm with light.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


Reading from right to left:
White Madras Centre with Green/Red, Green/White,
Green/Gold. All round frill, matching colour In a multi-check
voile. 3ft. 6in„ 35/-; 4ft. 6in„ 39/6; sft., 43/6; 6ft„ 47/6.
Curtains of White Madras Centre and two centre rows
multi-check frilling. 3ft. 6in., 37/6; 4ft. 6in., 42/-; sft., 47/6;
6ft.. 52/6.
Multi-check Voile and White Madras. Frilling. 3ft. 6in., 37/6;
4ft. 6in., 42/-; sft„ 47/6; 6ft., 52/6.
"TKSfcrvaiMS
w
For Framing
your windows, of course you’ll want
The Very Latest in WINDOW CURTAINS
mi
m
L
m
?:■
*» I
mm p
>V<-2
ryxs
£r
CE~/
Designers and housewives In America have long known how window curtains can alter the
personality of a room, enhance a view through a window. They value good-
looking curtains that will let the light into a room yet give complete
privacy. Frankly, we thought so much of these designs we copied
them ! The colours, too. For colour matched properly Is one of
the most important things In a curtain . . . matched so that It
won't fade after a week! So why not inspect our wonderful range?
There's a curtain here for every window in your home!
A
TRUTH
ADVERTISING
Horderns
SHOWER AND WINDOW CURTAINS THAT MATCH
Glamour in your bathroom! Hygienic Plastic Shower and Crossover Window
Curtains in many colours and designs. They stay clean. No washing
is necessary. You merely rub them down and they're cleaned! X'Overs, 3ft, 61n.,
6ft. x 6ft., 32/6. Ruffles, the rodless curtain. In plain or. spotted plastic. Ric Rac
braid edge in toning shades. Stretches to 5 yds. 32/6.
FURNISHING DEPT., 3RD FLOOR. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA


PRODUCTS or THE
RooteS.
CROUP jA
Humber
Hillman
c
Sunbeam-Talbot
SS
C ommer
D
Karrier
Vulcan
Tilling-Stevens
GH£ATi
’JVAAffS
HUMBER
HILLMAN
SUNBEAM-TALBOT
CONNER
■CARRIER
VULCAN
*
TILLING-STEVENS
ROD TEC CROUP
*7
'.L.
HUMS,
ilftfot*-
TALBOT
men
ŵ
Under these world-famous names, the Rootes
Group produces no fewer than 29 separate
and distinct models a car, truck or bus to
suit every conceivable transport need.
Wherever the red, blue and gold Rootes
Group sign is displayed owners of Rootes
Group vehicles all over Australia find com-
petent courteous service.
THE ROOTES GROUP, FISHERMEN’S BEND, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA AND OF ENGLAND


The Bulletin
Vol 72—No. 3780
Wednesday, July 23, 1952
GET OFF HIS BACK!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
'‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington .
DEFENCE AND GERMANY.
Mr. Menzies, in his report to the nation,
emphasised the stern need for defence
preparations ; but he scarcely need have
strained his overtaxed voice. The
raucous chorus, heavy with menace, of
the blocks of organised Communist
bellowers who were trying to shout him
•down with their chant of “We want
peace” spoke eloquently for him. Here
in peaceful Australia were the emissaries
of the enemy cheering the Asiatics who
are killing Australians in Korea, and
acting as the agents of the only country
which is likely to make, or induce others
to make, aggressive war.
Most of those who listened to the
Prime Minister’s speech (and to the Com-
munists’ snarl) must have felt glad that
he could give so justifiably good an
account of Australian defence in all the
circumstances. The position certainly
is better than it ever has been in time of
peace both as to quality and quantity.
In the period of doldrums after the
war, while Mr. Chifley was waiting for
Mr. Ferguson and the other ex-
Communists of the Central Executive of
the A.L.P. to make his national defence
programme for him, the outlook seemed
grim. And in 1949 it did not seem much
better. Defence then consisted mainly of
schemes which the Government was
afraid to translate into solid reality
because they knew that the big Red
unions would not like it. And at that
stage anything big Red unions did not
like was in mortal danger, even if it hap-
pened to be the political “Labor” party.
Mr. Menzies had not then saved Dr.
Evatt and Mr. Calwell from their friends
with his union-ballot legislation.
The present Government has done
remarkably well in defence in its dis-
turbed two and a half years of office,
more particularly since it has had to do
its basic organising in a period of fevered
inflation, with half a dozen screaming
old-men-of-the-sea in the shape of the
State Premiers hanging round its neck.
It has, from a bad start in Korea, put
its organisation of the battalions there on
a model basis. It has found a plentiful
supply of. men for the Royals. Its
recruiting-campaign in the last few
months for the Regular Army and the
citizen forces has been far better than
expectation ; and, whatever criticism there
has been of • Lieut.-General Robertson's
flamboyant methods, the results seem to
be justifying them. The national train-
ing scheme which “Labor” prophesied
would be resisted to a finish by the youth
of the country has been a brilliant success.
Nobody who calls himself an Australian
could fail to be proud of the product
turned out in the camps, or of the officer
corps, commissioned and non-commis-
sioned, who had built up the scheme. It
is not yet perfect from a training-method
viewpoint, but it is leagues in advance of
earlier efforts.
The Army as a whole is a fine nucleus,
capable of rapid expansion. The same
applies to the other services. The R.A.N,
continually has a ship or ships on service
in Far Eastern waters, training under war
conditions. The R.A.A.F. has its active
squadron in Korea, its wing in Malta and
its transport squadron in Malaya, all
learning their profession under condi-
tions which approximate to actual active
service. It is a substantial effort to keep
these units abroad in peace-time, but it
will pay dividends in experience.
In any case the day has passed when
defence can be organised in watertight
compartments. The security measures of
the West are conceived as a mutual
arrangement for round-the-world co-
operation and interlocking effort; which
is as well for us, since the next war will be
one in which distance will have been
annihilated. The possibility may have
to be faced that the enemy will strike far
afield in strength, perhaps even as far as
Australian soil, in order to make the
Western nations disperse their forces.
This will not be difficult within the
next five years. Last week a Comet air-
craft flew from London to Haneda aero-
drome in Tokyo in 27 hours, with stops.
That means Hong Kong to Darwin before
lunch; Singapore to Sydney or Shanghai
to Townsville during the concealing hours
of darkness. This should be enough to
lend a spur to the development of Aus-
tralian air strength, radar or no radar ;
and also enough to make Australians
thankful for the Pacific Pact, which Mr.
Menzies describes as “the greatest step
in out history towards Pacific security,”
along with the increasing realisation by
both London and Washington of the
importance of South-East Asia in world
defence.
The world situation is not improving.
All the moves of the U.S.S.R. and its
satellites become more frightening every
day. Russia is gradually taking over
control of the Danube and creeping along
the Black Sea littoral towards Turkey and
the Mediterranean. The Kremlin has
seized and turned into Russian territory
an enclave round the Danube-mouth
region preparatory to opening the Danube
to the Black Sea by a strategic canal. It
now looks as if Stalin and his friends are
about to seize Rumania. They have
assumed military control of much of the
Balkans, and the Bulgarians on the south
have declared a 12-mile territorial limit
beyond their coasts, a move entirely
illegal and obviously designed to mask
some operation.
The position in Germany is such that
a spark might set the whole Elbe line
aflame at any moment. It is safer to live
in wildest Africa than in Berlin.
Scarcely a week goes by that citizens
of the West are not openly kidnapped and
swallowed up in Eastern Germany.
There was a case only a few days ago in
which a respectable citizen was bundled
into a taxi-cab by armed men in the
American zone and driven hell-for-
leather into the Soviet-controlled area.
Western Germany recognises the dangers,
and well it may. To those Germans who
urged the deferment of alliance with the
Western Powers the German Chancellor
said in the debate on the treaties for the
ending of Western occupation that a
“highly-armed totalitarian State was not
going to be deterred from aggression by
the weakness of others,” and that Hitler
would never have risked a war if other
nations had looked to their defences in
time. He said that the defensive strength
of the West was already such that in a
“hot” war Russia has scarcely anything
to win and much to lose.
Western Germany above all must be
grateful for this, for while Dr. Adenauer
was expressing an aspiration that the new
treaties and military arrangements with
Western nations would guarantee 50 years
of peace in Europe, every act of the con-
trolling juntas of Eastern Germany, which
is being turned finally into a Communist
State, a new satellite of Moscow, spoke
of aggression. At the four-day conference
of the Communist party —it calls itself the
Social Unity party —opened on July 8,
the secretary-general, Walter Ulbricht
(whose national home is Moscow, not
Berlin), opened proceedings with a
deliberate threat that the new army which
is to be formed in the Russian zone of
Germany would give its support to the
“people’s movement to erase the vassal
Adenauer Government” in West
Germany. He declared openly that there
was “only one way to save the national
unity of Germany—to form a national
liberation movement backed by armed
forces,” which would be “filled with hate
of the British, American and French
imperialists.” And he emphasised that
East Germany was now firmly fixed as
part of the Russian bloc of satellites.
His speech was followed by the sheep-
like passing of resolutions specifically
informing the East German Government
that a People’s National Army is essential
to free Germany from British, American
and French domination and to wipe out
the Adenauer Government, so soon as the
Eastern State has become the “people’s
democracy,” for which the conference laid
detailed plans as concise as those which
were made for Poland. Its administration
provided for the institution of Soviet laws,
“people’s courts” and a “people’s army.”
When these are instituted it will be impos-
sible to tell where Eastern Germany ends
and Russia begins.
In the light of the fact that this is
being organised by a man who is of
the same genre as Dmitrov, Rakosi of
Hungary, Togliatti of Italy, and Thorez
of France, the moves amount to Russian
annexation under a slave Government.
And it can be only a matter of months, or
perhaps weeks, after the West German
Parliament has accepted the legisla-
tion to end the Western occupation, and
provide its quota of about 150,000 men
for the cadres of the Western European
Defence armies, that the questions of
Berlin and the Elbe zone will become
very practical and dangerous politics—
as full of danger, perhaps, as the questions
which are likely to surround the problem of
maintaining the independence of Austria.
Austria lies like an island threatened
north and east with the influx of an invad-
ing Asiatic tide which Moscow is only
too eager to force over the barriers which
divide the West from the East.
The sudden readiness of the Chinese
Government for an armistice in Korea,
and for agreement to accept the Geneva
Conventions solution of the prisoner-of-
war question, is not necessarily a hopeful
sign for world peace. At a moment
when all observers in Korea seem to favor
the belief mat an armistice is in the offing,
the poisonous germ-warfare propaganda
is being intensified. And, in any case, an
armistice does not necessarily mean peace.
The sudden surrender on principle may
easily be based on Russia’s desire to con-
centrate on larger ground. Until the
German, Austrian and Middle Eastern
problems are settled there can be no
security for the West. And obviously
Russia does not want them settled,
because, firstly, a united Germany would
mean the end of all excuse for continued
Russian occupation, and, secondly, it
would mean the creation of a bulwark
of defence between Russia and the
Western democracies.
"Living on Grievances."
The Prime Minister’s speech in Brisbane
was spoiled for an audience that over-
flowed the City Hall, and for the wider
radio-audience throughout the land, by
the usual “Labor”-Communist tactics of
placing entrenched bodies of organised
interrupters to try to prevent his being
heard. “Labor”-Communist as a descrip-
tion of these tactics is not extravagant, for
the executive of the Brisbane Trades and
Labor Council is controlled by those
familiar agents of Moscow whose
objective is to bring about the collapse of
Australia’s economy.
Their effort illustrated the opposition
the Commonwealth Government has en-
countered and still must encounter to re-
educate a public largely debauched by
the Socialist policy of easy-money, loafing
on the job and all manner of industrial
and commercial. barrow-pushing. The
idea that inflation can be defeated by
political hocus-pocus dies hard. It is
bred on the propaganda that national
wealth blown away in the world-war fight
for life can be restored to the national
coffers by simply printing bank-notes and
so be “made available” for blowing away
again on illimitable Government works
carried out on Government stroke; that
“value can be put back into the pound”
without any need for tears, or even
working effort, if only the Common-
wealth Government would perform the
prescribed necromantics; and that a
Government which cannot “find”
spending-money for everybody and at
the same time reduce taxation and the
cost of commodities is not fit to govern.
Although the electors have been
tempted to listen to this sort of political
balderdash from an Opposition party
which has for two and a half years formu-
lated no constructive proposals of its
own, it is incredible that the majority
should be really convinced by it. Even
Sydney “Herald,” whose assiduous
attempts to discover on which side our
bread is buttered seem to confuse even
itself, arrived recently at the conclusion
that “there are no painless methods of
turning back the cost spiral when it has
reached its present eminence.” The
change of heart beginning to be mani-
fested in some State Premiers is positively
sensational. Before long the late depres-
sion-howlers Messrs. Cahill, Gair and Mc-
Donald and Dr. Evatt may be claiming
that they, and not the Menzies Govern-
ment, were the authors of the counter-
inflationary movement, and cite “Labor”
policy as advocated at Ashfield, the Vic-
torian Legislative Council elections, and
the Queensland local-government polls.
The matter of Mr. Menzies’s statement
of last March is true, despite the latest
rise in the basic wage. He said
the halting of inflation and thd
stabilisation of costs and prices “are
fundamental to national development,
national defence, industrial stability,
secured employment and rising standards
of living,” and that the economic disorder
was responding to the Government’s
measures. The necessary increased pro-
duction in basic industries was already
showing itself. The Government, he said,
was not going to allow this improvement
to be blighted by either (1) the encourage-
ment, through bank-credit facilities, of
non-essential local industries which might
wish to supply a consumer market denied
the formerly imported volume of non-
essential goods, or (2) the use of infla-
tionary Treasury-bill finance to meet the
cost of State public-works programmes
which were “far beyond our current
capacity to perform or to finance by non-
inflationary means.” He gave the recent
Loan Council meeting three months’
notice in these terms:
It is essential that all Governments
should confine public-works programmes
to a level which will not place unbearable
strains upon the financial and economic
structure, and concentrate upon an order
of priority which will see important jobs
done as soon as possible.
He named the priorities as works designed
to produce more food, horsepower, more
iron and steel, more efficient transport of
goods.
As for the coming Budget, he said in
the March statement that Cabinet would
consider how “the speedy encouragement
of primary production” could be most
wisely given by modification of the tax-
system to assist the acquisition of farm
machinery and housing for farm em-
ployees, the conservation of fodder and
effective use of water-supply. “There
are still great difficulties to be overcome
not only by Government action but also
by vigorous private activity, work and
efficiency.” This last the Government
would also wish to assist, “given public
co-operation and a tolerant understand-
ing of the task we all have in common. ’
At Brisbane last week Mr. Menzies
declined further reference to the coming
Budget, but an archangel on the platform
could hardly have resisted the temptation
to flick at the turned tails of the State
Premiers. His reply to their attitude at
the Loan Council was richly deserved;
I offered to return them their taxing-
powers. I cannot say I received a rap-
turous response from people who have
been living so long on their grievances. If
we had not had the States on our back
for their works programmes we would not
have had to increase taxes last year by
one penny. The aggregate amount for
works provided in the last two years ex-
ceeded the total of any previous 15 years’
borrowings.
The State Governments formed one
of the pressure - groups which have
been howling calamity up and down the
land for months past and growing poli-
tically fat from “living on their
grievances” and scare-talk about depres-
sion and unemployment. Mr. Menzies
answered them with figures from the Com-
monwealth Statistician. In June last year,
when this howling began, there were
employed on Government works through-
out Australia 115,000 hands; at the end
of May last the number so employed was
116,200.
The Prime Minister might have applied
other tests in other quarters. Ownership
of motor-vehicles has risen so greatly
that there is now one for every 5.9 of
the population, men, women and babes-
in-arms. In the first quarter of this
year Australians spent £40.3 million on
liquor, or £11.6 million more than they
spent on meat —and for meat that works
out at something like £1 a week for each
adult, against Is. 9d. a head in Britain.
The public’s money “invested” in lotteries
and betting surpasses all records; in
N. S. Wales alone last year “one 100,000-
ticket lottery was drawn each day and an
extra one on Saturdays”; and when
Sydney’s Warwick Farm racecourse was
reopened recently south-western road-
traffic was completely disorganised, and
a previous dress-rehearsal of the reopen-
ing, including practice-betting at the tote
windows, was attended by thousands of
citizens impatient for, “the day.” This
is the reverse of the political howling
about unemployment, depression and loss
of purchasing-power and living standards
—all the result of what Sydney “Herald”
refers to as the 1951 “horror-Budget.”
Well may Mr. Menzies, returned from a
view of conditions in Britain and Europe,
describe the Australian people as sitting
on velvet in comparison with our trading
customers overseas and their squealing as
disgraceful. “Let us blow away all this
nonsense, quit grumbling and get to
work.”
The further instalment of dollar-loan
from the International Bank which Mr.
Menzies secured is for plant needed for
development works which can be obtained
only from dollar-sources. The calamity-
howling by States Premiers and the
Trades Halls assuredly did not assist the
negotiations for that loan, but it did not
prevail to thwart them. The same may
not be true of the home loan-appeals of
which the first for this year is due to be
launched before many weeks are out,
and “Labor” Premiers will have to sing a
very different song when it comes to
raising the money on which their loan-
works depend. Then will the dismal-
jimmy at the head of “Labor’s” late
puppet-Government in Melbourne dis-
cover what affinity exists between his
jeremiads and his “claims” to other
people’s money ; and the true import will
be seen of the sudden metamorphosis of
Mr. Cahill in N.S.W., now professing
conversion to the Menzies faith in the
realisation that, after all, “we are more
fortunately situated” and
We are not [any more] going to lament
or squeal. It is our duty to fall into line
and use every effort to stabilise the posi-
tion We are an integral part of the
Government of Australia.
Whereon it may be asked, on behalf
of the Australian public, which has had
its leg pulled for long enough by these
“Labor” mountebanks, what comment
does Dr. Evatt feel like offering?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Pull Devil. Pull Baker!
Inflation is working to within sight of
the phase when, if nothing is done, we
may see a rise of £1 a quarter in the
basic wage, and that wage’s touch
with realities will grow increasingly
remote. The calculation on the C-index
that everybody eats bacon and eggs for
breakfast, and in the same quantities,
has long been archaic. Soon other items
in the list will, like these, be relegated to
the status of museum pieces.
The latest wage-rise is greeted on all
sides as a calamity, especially in Sydney,
where it may be expected soon to begin
operating as an excise against free-trade
among the States. The Commonwealth
Treasurer’s opinion that the Govern-
ment’s anti-inflation measures are having
some good result is true to the extent
that, but for the Government’s action,
the rise would surely have been much
greater. But this is admitted by none of
the spokesmen for the pressure-groups
who have been clamoring for relief from
the “horror-Budget.’' Nor have the
factions now any proposals for co-
operative action to supplement or replace
the Budget remedies attempted. They
simply demand, like the gentleman who
uttered the “views” of the N.S.W.
Chamber of Manufactures, that the Gov-
ernment should “do something”—that is
to say, something else.
The Commonwealth Government has
no constitutional industrial power to do
anything. There is not the slightest
prospect that the rival political parties, or
the rival sovereignties (Commonwealth
and States), would agree to urge a “Yes”
vote in a referendum to give the Com-
monwealth the necessary industrial
powers. Employers and union represen-
tatives lately spent six fruitless months of
negotiations for a settlement on wages
and hours, and separated agreeing only in
a statement that they could agree on
nothing whatever. The Liberal-Country
and the “Labor” parties are so divided
by the socialisation issue that they will
not even look at the problem from the
same viewpoint-—let alone join in efforts
to tackle it. These being the political
conditions, what prospect is there of any
Government’s being able to do anything?
True, Dr. Evatt commented at the
weekend that this is “an acute national
problem,” and that “the ‘Labor’ move-
ment will play its part in reaching a fair
and just solution.” What these words
mean the Prime Minister should make it
his urgent business to find out. But if
they cloak merely the old rejected
Socialist prescription for “price-control”
—for unlimited subsidisation by the Com-
monwealth Treasury of arbitrarily-fixed
prices—then all pressure-groups associated
with recent “Labor” calamity-howling
against “the horror-Budget” of last year
can say goodbye to any prospect of
reduced taxation. Taxation revenue will
have to rise as steeply and constantly as
the basic wage has been doing.
There appears to be no resort, failing
party unity for political action, save
application by the employers to the
Arbitration Court to revise the structure
of the basic wage along with the structure
of the standard working-week. The hope-
lessness of waiting upon Parliamentary
initiative is shown by the reluctance of
the State Governments—the largest single
employers in the land —to make any
move whatever to avert the calamity they
deplore. It may be safely assumed that
they will no more support any motion of
the court on the abovementioned lines
by the employers in commercial industry
than that they will collaborate to increase
production by legislating to restore the
44-hour week in their own domains.
Military Tradition.
“Ek Dum” attends a ceremony:
It is often forgotten how much unity
exists between Australian and British
military tradition; but there was a reminder
last week when, on the highest point of the
Victoria Barracks grounds at Paddington (N. S.
Wales), Lieutenant-General Frank Berryman,
G.O.C. Eastern Command, presided over the
ceremony of planting Norfolk-pines to
remember two old soldiers. Both lived in the
more-than-century-old barracks; one of them
was born there.
The first tree was planted by W.O. T.
Nicholson, a permanent soldier of the First
Field Regiment, in memory of his ancestor,
Warrant-Officer Henry Green, who enlisted in
the Royal Artillery in 1846 (the yfcar the barracks
were first partially occupied), served in the
Crimea and Indian Mutiny, came to Australia
as a settler, and joined the newly-formed N. S.
Wales Artillery, in which he bore the number
“1,” and was the first R.S.M. He served in
the Sudan campaign, and had a hand in the
training of troops for South Africa. He died
in 1918.
At Victoria Barracks W.O. Green lived in
rooms on one side of the barracks clock. On
the other lived Captain Holmes, late of the
North Devons (11th Foot), a regiment with a
remarkable fighting record alinost from the
moment it was raised by the Duke of Beaufort
in 1685 —it fought at the Battle of the Boyne,
was with Marlborough at Malplaquet, at Dun-
blane against the Old Pretender in 1715, at
Dettingen and Fontenoy, retook Carlisle from
Bonnie Prince Charlie in ’45, was used as a
Marine Regiment with Howe’s Fleet on the
“Glorious First of June,” and at Cape St.
Vincent, and was here for 13 years from 1845
onwards. Having retired to become command
secretary, Captain Holmes married W.O.
Green’s daughter, and their son joined the
pioneer volunteer infantry unit of N.S.W., the
Ist Battalion, as a bugler, and died on Messines
Ridge, mortally wounded by a chance salvo,
ironically enough when taking a safer track
than usual on his way to show the Messines
battlefield to N.S.W. Premier W. A. Holman.
Major-General Holmes had commanded the
first Australian milittary force in action
in World War I in the taking of German
New Guinea. He had had a brigade and then
2nd Div. on Gallipoli, where he earned a
reputation for fearlessness and for a love of
the front line equal to that of General Bridges—
“a militia officer of long and keen service....
possessed of fine moral qualities, transparent
sincerity, energy and courage,” who “regularly
visited every danger-point in his line.” In
France he had shown himself before First
Bullecourt just as capable of moral courage in
standing up to his superiors as he was in
physical courage. He was one of Australia’s
greatest citizen soldiers, and would have almost
certainly had command of the Australian Corps
if he had suryived. His son, Colonel Basil
Holmes, planted the tree in his memory.
When the two tall pines grow to their natural
height they will be visible all over Sydney as
a reminder of a long family devotion to the
service of the country and of the insoluble links
between British and Australian defence.
Descendants of both men distinguished them-
selves in World War 11.
A Mental Attitude.
That inquiring body the Institute of Public
Affairs, Victoria, has been turning its
attention to the question of what it calls
high- and low-productivity economies,
taking the United States as the outstand-
ing example of the one and Australia as
a very personal example of the other.
The latest number of the institute’s
“Review” examines the reasons usually
advanced to account for America’s
greater man-hour production in com-
parison with Australia’s. After listing
them it rejects the lot, or at best regards
them not as reasons but as results spring-
ing from the same basic reason —a differ-
ence in the attitude of mind, which in
America “amounts to an unqualified,
wholehearted acceptance of the fact that
there can be no real improvement in
living standards without greater pro-
duction.”
“This attitude,” says the “Review,” “is
not confined to one section of the people.
It is as evident in the factory operative
as the plant-manager, the trade-union
official and the top business executive.”
This is not merely the opinion of the
I.P.A. It is the outstanding impression
gained by a host of British observers,
representatives of managerial and work
force, who have studied American
industry at first-hand. Since 1949 more
than 60 parties, each representing a
branch of industry and consisting of
managers, technicians, workers and union-
leaders, have visited the United States
at the invitation of the Anglo-American
Productivity Council. Team after team
has commented on the “productivity-
consciousness” of the American worker.
In Australia this attitude, with all its
implications of belief in one’s country
and faith in its future, is lamentably
absent. More than that, to a great degree
the very reverse is preached with con-
siderable success —and not merely by
Communists with a vested interest in
lowered production. “Don’t work your-
self out of a job,” “Why worry? It’s
only the boss’s time,” and “Don’t forget
the depression when thousands of men
walked the streets looking for work” have
become almost standard dogma with
trade-union leaders in this country, and
even many of those who now realise that
production is the key to prosperity are
not game to say so for fear of being
labelled “bosses’-men.”
Until “Labor” reorientates its attitude
towards production there can be little
hope of the increased output which all
authorities now agree is the chief pre-
requisite of a higher standard of living
and a more prosperous Australia. It is
no doubt too much to expect a brickyard
worker, for example, whose industrial
education has not taught him to think
beyond his pay-envelope, to realise that
harder work on his part will mean a
higher standard of living for him
personally —particularly when he has
been indoctrinated for years with the
belief that it will merely mean bigger
dividends for the boss—but surely the
“Labor” movement as a whole can be
made to grasp the idea that increased
national production must mean a higher
standard of living from which all will
benefit.
Such a change of outlook can come
only from above —from the political
leaders of “Labor,” from the A.C.T.U.
and from trade-union leaders. The present
time, when “Labor” claims to be wresting
control of its own organisation from the
Communists, seems an admirable moment
at which to cut adrift from a tradition
which aids no one but Communists and
the enemies of Australia.
Holt Calling a Halt.
It seems'a pity that Australia, having
developed an inflow of highly necessary
population—“ New Australians” —over the
past four or five years, should now have
to advertise to the world that the tempo
must be slowed down “to accord with the
employment situation.”
Minister Holt goes overseas this week
to explain to the queues of waiting
applicants for passages, on the European
continent and in Britain, why the flow
must be reduced. The Immigration
Advisory Council —including representa-
tives of industrial employers and trade-
union offices and economists —whose
recommendations are the Minister’s
guide, has resolved that “priority should
in future be granted to skilled and
rural workers methods of recruitment
should be varied to accord with the
employment situation, and a reduction
should be made in unskilled workers.”
It is to be hoped that Mr. Holt is not
also going to insist, as has been suggested,
that families waiting to follow husbands
and fathers already brought to Australia
will be kept back while unmarried
workers are let through the new form of
screening.
This country seems fated to back and
fill on immigration as on Government-
trading schemes. Governments undertake
heavy expenditure in advertising-cam-
paigns ; the development of a satisfactory
response, both in volume and in sustained
inquiry, requires time and patient per-
sistence ; and too often, just when the
thing is starting to go well, political con-
siderations or something else call a halt.
The resultant waste in investment and
overhead is bad enough—though appar-
ently inseparable from Government busi-
ness. Much worse is the harm done
among the communities where the name
of Australia as a new homeland had been
made to ring like Excelsior.
Australia was advised to open its
hitherto jealously-guarded gates to the
best of the post-war refugee-migrants
from Central Europe before North
America should snap them up. The
supply of these desirable new settlers
is not. yet exhausted; but the stream
is likely to become a mere trickle
under the new rules, for “varia-
tion in accord with employment” can be
made to cover total prohibition. We shall
be lucky if it does not turn out that such
“variation” can be worked only once —
that, while the tap may be easily turned
off, to turn it on again may be beyond
our powers.
Sheahan Off the Ralls.
Much has been heard lately from N.S.W.
Minister for Transport Sheahan about
the wonderful advances made by N.S.W.
railways. What with new locos and
rolling-stock, better timetables and
sundry other improvements, his railways
now claim to be able to handle all the
freight business about the place. Possibly
because he believes it himself, Mr.
Sheahan was upset to hear that Victoria
had chartered ships to bring coal from
India, and said he had trains to cart as
much coal to Victoria (the coal is avail-
able at the mines) as Victoria wants. Vic-
toria seems a little doubtful —it is going
on with the Indian coal.
Mr. Sheahan’s Mr. Winsor followed
this with a statement that Victorian and
N.S.W. railways could now carry all the
goods that have to be carried between
Sydney and Melbourne—he will even run
special trains, if necessary.
Mr. Sheahan had the face to assert that
“growth of the road-transport industry
was due not so much to the public’s desire
for that form of transport as to war-time
effect on the railways.” The fact is that
the public have persisted in using road
transport and encouraging its expansion
by giving it business, though every State
with a railway to run has done its level
best to stop it.
It is not that the railways cannot give
the speedy and cheaper (in time-saving,
packaging costs, less pillage, less hand-
ling) service the road-man can; it is
simply that they’ve never tried. Ever
since the road-truck appeared these rail-
way moguls, using legislative powers they
should never have had, have tried to
protect their politically-controlled rail-
ways by penal taxation and a tyrannical
permit system. The result is that the
railways—for which there is a case —
have never had a chance to show what
they really can do.
If the policy of the Sheahans is correct,
then a State Government may just as
equitably slap heavy taxes on private
schools, banks, hospitals and insurance
companies to stop them competing with
Government shows. Meantime, the crowd
which is continually yelping at Menzies
for allegedly causing unemployment is
callously throwing hundreds of road-
trucks idle and their drivers out of work.
Democracy in Persia.
Firm pressure by the British, without any
flamboyant publicity of the type which
used to disfigure “Labor” diplomacy in
Mr. Attlee’s time, has gradually brought
about the inevitable in Persia. Moussadek
is out, and a wily old hand is in.
Ghavam es-Sultaneh has been coming
into office and going out of office for a
generation, fleeing and then returning in
triumph, the inevitable resource when
everybody else had failed.
He is not much more of a democrat
than Moussadek, since he was in office in
periods when Reza Shah thought nothing
of shooting a captain for being out of
step on parade or walling-up a robber
in gypsum or burying him to the neck
by the roadside. But he has the sovereign
virtue which Persia needs in a Prime
Minister at the moment—the ability to see
on which side the country’s bread is
buttered.
He is perturbed about Persia’s
penurious and almost starving condition
as the result of its “throwing-off the
British yoke” and the closing-down of
the Anglo-Iranian oil plants, which has
deprived the country of its main revenue
and trade. The confident hope which
Moussadek seemed to feel that he could
at once come to an agreement with
Russia or somebody else about Abadan
has proved visionary. Moscow is only
prepared to help if the country will come
behind the Iron Curtain, and if the oil-
fields and refineries become Russian.
And it knows in any case that that might
mean world war,
Ghavam believes that he can start the
oil industry operating again, and that he
can “make Persia rich.” His one problem
seems to be to keep his promises without
himself losing face with his constituents
or losing his life. As the correspondent
of the staid London “Observer” put it at
the weekend: “If Mr. Ghavam can meet
Persia’s immediate threat of bankruptcy
and avoid the very real menace of
assassination he may be able to pull the
country slowly out of its troubles.”
Which seems to be all the comment on
Persia necessary ; and also on U.N.0.,
which last year was managing the peace
of the world under the presidency of a
Persian nominee.
Mr. Heffron Changes Front.
Mr. R. J. Heffron, discussing the refusal
of his N. S. Wales Education Depart-
ment to allow a naval officer to address
schoolchildren of appropriate age about
the chances of a career offered by naval
cadetships, was much more confused than
he would have been in 1922-23, when he
was tutor in public-speaking to the Aus-
tralian Communist party.
But 1922-23 is all flung behind Mr.
Heffron, “long ago and far away,” and
now he is a Doctor of Literature and
Minister for Education in a Ministry kept
in power by a “moderate” Labor junta
of virile anti-Communists.
On Thursday of last week he was
reported in Sydney “Herald”:
General Robertson asked for permission
to interest a limited number of pupils
in Service careers, particularly through the
Naval College I learned that per-
mission was in fact sought to interest
schoolchildren from the age of 131 years.
I expressed the opinion that such an
approach to children by uniformed officers
might not be appreciated by their parents
or teachers.... we are behind the building-
up of the various arms of our defence
forces... .but this is a matter somewhat
different from the recruiting of grown-ups.
But next day, after having half an hour
with General Robertson and hearing what
his colleagues and public opinion felt,
Mr. Heffron declared in a joint statement
with the General:
The departmental officers concerned
believed that the Services desired to have
their officers address State-school pupils on
the question of general recruiting. They
rightly considered this was an unsuitable
subject for children, and should be
addressed to young people of military age
However to assist the Services to
obtain the best material the Minister [i.e.,
himself] has directed that Service officers
be allowed in future to talk about the
opportunities that exist in the Services for
lifetime professions.
Confused or not, Mr. Heffron has
certainly learnt to change front in a
manner equal to that of the acknowledged
masters of the art.
"Truce" and Korea.
“Ek D.”: On July 15 Communist negoti-
ators in Korea asked for a two-day recess
after the Chinese Communist Govern-
ment had announced that it had decided
to recognise the Geneva Convention on
(i Continued on next page.)


>M mß?*
Travel in State—interstate.
Morning, noon and night A.N.A. luxury air liners are
criss-crossing the Continent between their 62 ports o' call which
network our States. A.N.A. air travellers can leave at any
time of the day which suits them best.
WING YOUR WAY WITH
w
AUSTRALIAN
Branches
NATIONAL AIRWAYS PTY. LTD.
and Agents throughout the Commonwealth
the care of prisoners-of-war. It is q con-
vention which allows either combatant
to turn over to a mutually-agreed-cn
neutral Power p.-0.-w. who refuse repatri-
ation. It is an ironic comment that
Communist China’s action should be so
interpreted. It has all along flatly denied
that it is participating in the war. The
highly-armed three-quarters of a million
Chinese, the bulk of them illiterate, who
are involved, are supposed patriots whose
high-flown feelings have impelled them
to leave their homes and rush to help
a neighbor. And anybody who drops a
bomb across the Yalu on “peaceful
China,” which allegedly has no hand in
what is happening in North Korea, is a
wicked imperialist bent on the conquest of
Asia for greedy Wall-street.
And when the prisoners are transferred
in this case, it is assumed to India, those
Convicted of war crimes in accordance
with the principles established at Nurem-
berg and Tokyo trials would not be
entitled to the benefits of the convention.
The whole thing was mysterious until
the Communists suddenly Came forward
with a charge that a number of the
p.-0.-w., while on their side, had been
nothing but “spies,” which raised the pros-
pect that, so soon as the truce arrange-
ment came into being and they had gone
out of the direct custody qf the fighting
U.N.O. Allies, Moscow and its friends
would put pressure on India to hand oyer
large numbers of them for trial for
treason. Commensurately with the
growth of this conviction the hopes of a
cease-fire faded.
Meanwhile both sides are building up
their strength. It is more than ever true
that the United Nations line is a fortress
holding-line, aproned with barbed-wire
and mines, with a trench system much
like that of World War I in France, save
that it is much drier and more comfort-
able during the wet season, which is now
on. Both sides are active in the matter
of probing attacks to keep up morale
and let the other fellows know they are
well alive. Last week Canberra issued a
casualty-list—one killed, two missing and
believed p.-0.-w., and 15 wounded.
On July 16 Peking was shouting over
its radio against the brutal U.N.O
aggressors who insist on “extending the
war” against a peaceful North Korean
force armed by Russia and China which
is twice as big as its own. On the same
day 58 Thunderjets out of 59 succeeded
in flying the Pacific to Japan, bringing
the promise of unpleasant days and nights
for those in charge of North Korean
war installations. It was stated un-
officially, but pretty reliably, in Tokyo
that the United States was substantially
increasing its air-power to meet a poten-
tial drive by the Communist force of
1800 to 2000 aircraft.
It will be a miracle if a truce is
arranged.
POLITICAL POINTS
It seems that the beautiful friendship
between. McDonald and Cain is to end.
There was never any pretence on
“Labor’s” side that their motives for
keeping the Cockies in office were any
higher than mere expediency. McDonald,
of course, has never really admitted that
his crowd has been governing by grace
of “Labor.” He preferred highfalutin
talk about “having the confidence of the
House.” He hopes still to retain this —
with the help of a different part of the
House.
At the Easter conference of Victorian
“Labor” Keon, M.H.R., urged the party
to drop the alliance, claiming that all
“Labor” was getting out of it was the
blame for McD.’s mistakes. He was
overruled by those who held that the
time was not ripe for a divorce. The
ideal plan, urged the optimists, was to
squeeze a Greater Melbourne Bill and a
redistribution of seats out of the Half-
Premier before dumping him. Last week
McDonald made it clear that he would
not go ahead with these measures, so the
A.L.P. executive decided to tear up the
marriage-lines.
A few months ago this would have
meant an immediate election; now it’s
not so Certain. The Libs, with the recent
Legislative Council figures fresh in
memory and the unpopularity of their
Federal colleagues in mind, can hardly
be eager for an election, “Labor,”
although hopeful of victory, doesn’t relish
the prospect of having to put into effect
the public-works sackings that McDonald
claims are now unavoidable. Most likely
course is for the minority Government
to continue for the time being, with the
Libs giving conditional support. No one
is anxious to relieve McDonald of the
task of carrying the baby. After all, it’s
his own.
Basic-wage increases for the six
capitals;
Increase. New Figure,
Sydney .. .. 12s. £ll 15 0
Melbourne .. .. 12s. £ll 4 0
Brisbane .. .. 6s. £lO 13 0
Adelaide .. .. 13s. £ll 4 0
Perth Bs. £ll 2 0
Hobart ~ .. Bs. £ll 2 0
The figures reversed the downward
trend of the two previous quarterly
adjustments ; Sydney figures for February
and May were 9s. and 7s. respectively,
compared with 14s. last November. The
best that can be said of the latest jump
is that it is slightly lower than that for
the corresponding quarter of last year—
12s. against 13 s. or, on a percentage basis,
5.38 p.c. compared with 7.22 p.c.
Announcement of the figures brought
the usual chorus of moans and crocodile-
tears. Representatives of employers and
employees alike agreed that the rise
would benefit no one and would result
in a further rise in the cost of living,
leading to more increases and higher costs.
Everyone agreed that something should
be done about it, but no one volunteered
to be the loser. No union representative
came forward with an offer to waive the
increase in an effort to achieve stability.
No employers’ spokesman suggested that
industry should attempt to carry the addi-
tional wage-burden without price-
increases.
The automatic responses to a sugges-
tion of this sort would probably be (a)
that the workers can’t afford to forgo
the increase and ( b ) that industry cannot
stand the extra impost. It is surely an
answer that pensioners and others on
fixed incomes have to make do without
the quarterly increase and that some in-
dustries, by the nature of their product
or service, are precluded from passing on
the cost. No stability can be reached
without someone being hurt, and the
question is whether it is better to take a
minor buffet now or a crippling blow
later.
When somebody said buyer-resistance
had forced the price of eggs down by
lid. a dozen in Victoria, the Egg Board
secretary pooh-poohed it. All the same
egg-sales in Victoria were down 150,000
dozen for the April-June quarter as com-
pared with the same period last year.
Pressed on this point by a Melbourne
“Herald” man the secretary muttered
something about “seasonal conditions.”
Queensland Acting-Premier Duggan
gave out the other day that his Gov-
ernment “would make every effort to
keep Housing Commission day-labor
workers in jobs.” Which means that
Queensland can expect to see its housing
programme drag along slowly under 4aY-
labor, whereas the quickest way to get
houses built is to let the jobs to private
contractors.
It appears that the refusal of the N. S.
Wales Education Department to permit a
naval officer to address schoolboys on the
terms of entry to the Royal Australian
Naval College was due to a “misunder-
standing.” The impression remains, how-
ever, that it was all a part of “Labor’s”
general misunderstanding of the import-
ance of defence. In its most extreme
form this conveys the feeling that any
uniform carries a certain stigma of shame
and that a Navy, Army and Air Force
are at best necessary evils, with the
emphasis more on the evil than the neces-
sity, More moderate “Labor” leaders,
while not supporting this view, often seem
to be influenced by the knowledge that
it exists.
As far as the Director-General of Edu-
cation was concerned, misunderstanding
scarcely explains his published reason for
the ban —“that if he permitted Service
officers to address pupils he would be
obliged to open the schools to appeals for
recruits from every other industry or
calling.” This is a specious argument for
two reasons. Firstly, it implies that
national defence has no more importance
than any “other industry or calling” ;
secondly, that no other industry or calling
has been allowed to address pupils. This
is not so. Within the last few weeks
officers of the P.M.G. Department and
the Snowy River Authority have addressed
high-school students on the advantages of
careers in their respective departments.
Folies Bergere wisecrack, without com-
ment : “If we’d known you were coming
we’d’ve cooked the books.”
Comrades ejected from the Brisbane
City Hall for attempting to break up the
Prime Minister’s meeting were loud in
their protestations of freedom of speech
—their own, not .Menzies’s. Their com-
rades in China have just demonstrated
their belief in the same principle by new
laws against “unlawful activities.” Persons
accused will be deprived of political rights,
“including freedom of opinion, publica-
tion, meeting, organisation, correspond-
ence, residence, movement and demon-
stration.” Apart from these few restric-
tions they will presumably be, like trade
under our Section 92, “absolutely free.
Burton and Co. could possibly explain
why such legislation should be necessary
when, according to their reports, every-
one they saw on their Peking jaunt was
singing at his work and wholeheartedly
behind the new regime—and almost
nobody was in jail.
Discussing today’s election of a new
president of the N. S. Wales Legislative
Council, Sydney “Sun” remarked that
Dickson, Minister for Building Materials,
was expected to win “as he has outstand-
ing qualities and also strong support.
Well, that should give him an easy win
over candidates with outstanding qualities
and weak support, but it isn’t likely to
help much against a cove with no out-
standing qualities but stronger support.
Persia’s weeping Premier has resigned
again. Johnnie Ray, his only rival for
the lachrymatory crown, is still in full
cry,
Calwell turned up in Darwin the other
day and promised Territorians three
things in the name of the next “Labor
Government: (1) proper harbor facilities
for Darwin, (2) a standard-gauge railway
from Darwin to Queensland by way of
Newcastle Waters, (3) a standard-gauge
railway from Birdum to Alice Springs.
Never one to miss the opportunity of
using a cliche, Arthur added that the
road from Canberra to Darwin was
strewn with broken promises. Darwin
accepted his contribution with the philo-
sophical thought that a few more would
hardly be noticed.
For good measure Arthur weighed in
with a promise to give half-castes full
citizenship if “Labor” is returned to
power. Including those he described a
few years ago as “brindle”?
Liquor commission, special sitting:
Doyle Mallett, who told the commission some
months ago that he was the sole owner ot
Robyns Pty., Ltd., of Mosman; Household
Supplies, of Woy Woy (both wine-and-spmt
businesses); and of Gearin’s Hotel, Katoomba,
admitted that he had been lying, and that in
reality Thomas Patrick Nolan, formerly an
executive of Tooth’s brewery, held a halt-interest
in the three concerns. He had bought Robyns in
1946, Nolan being present with him at the
auction. The Woy Woy licence was held by
a man called Williams, who had been intro-
duced to him by Nolan. He had bought
Gearin’s hotel after Mrs. Gearin had asked
Nolan to find her a buyer. There was no docu-
ment recording the partnership in Gearin s; it
was merely ,a verbal agreement.
Nolan admitted owning a half-interest in the
three businesses, but would not agree that this
constituted disloyalty to Tooth’s, though he
realised that the firm would disapprove of it.
The general-manager, Mr. Watson, had recently
taxed him with it and he had handed in his
resignation. His name had been kept on
Robyns’ company register because he considered
it his private business. Nolan claimed that
when Mrs. Gearin told him she wished to sell
out for £60,000 he gave Mallett a letter of
introduction to her, but was not thinking of
it as a proposition for himself, but entirely
from her side. He did not come into it till
after the sale. It was news to him that Mallett
had paid the deposit with a Robyns cheque.
He had told Mrs. Gearin that she had got a
good price and that Mallett had paid enough.
Asked whether it was a fact that Mallett had
since put the hotel on the market at £120,000,
Nolan said, “Aha, times have altered,” and
that that price was accounted for by the
“inflation of the market.”
Tom Watson, general-manager of Tooths,
said Nolan had held responsible positions with
the brewery since 1921. He had trusted him
implicitly, and the revelation of his interest
in liquor-licences had come as a shock to him.
He himself had no interest with Nolan or
anyone else —“no dummies, trusts or any other
machinations.” He still had complete trust
in the rest of his staff, but, at the suggestion
of the court, he agreed to question them all
about any possible interests they might have.
There was a howl from waterfront
unions when the steamer Santelena,
formerly the inter-State cargo vessel
Allara, sneaked out of Sydney without a
pilot, her purchasers Laving defied a ban
placed on her by the Seamen’s Union.
It is quite right that the Government
should require foreign owners signing on
Australian crews to make proper pro-
vision for their return to Australia, but
it is absolutely wrong for the union to
insist that ships sold to overseas com-
panies shall be manned by Australian
seamen, engaged on terms dictated by
the union. Another vessel has been lying
in Sydney for several months because of
these blackmailing tactics; a third got
away by paying a cash amount to the
Seamen’s Union.
The Country party, which represents
a section which has more to fear from
socialisation than anyone else, is urging
the Federal Government to get on with
its legislation to make socialisation impos-
sible without a referendum of the people.
It’s a move many other sections of the
community should support.


A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A MODEL.


RUPTURED?
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal pafrts therefore relieving the entire
Weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture, A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflaced) for the
hernia region.
ẁ
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rrgiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, Cl. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method’
NAME
ADDRESS.
STATE
Established 1863
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
J ACKS OX
o'suixtvax
. pram). ~
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC ULAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
TOILETS
SPECIAL
ẃ
HOSPITAL
BRAMDY
fSUO.I2
R
$6
m
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ESTABLISHED IOSS
SPECIAL HOSPII
»»AH6V DiSTil tE D AND BO
smtr. st, PETtnS. * DEI * IC> I f ,S^^
Touev. SCOTT * TOUIT.
a, 4 **"*#.-.
7 S ' *'«*,
f,r “arly
3 centu
iry
I
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORSf TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
Business. Rollery. Etc.
N. S. Wales Tileworks Fiasco
The N. S. Wales “Labor”
Government has been one of the
chief complainers about the
stand of the Loan Council in not
underwriting the loan funds re-
quired to carry out all the
“works” which State Premiers
and Treasurers claim they have
planned to put under way during
the next financial year or two.
Premier Cahill, who succeeded
Mr. McGirr, has had a lot to
say about the Federal Govern-
ment’s stand in the matter of
credit control and its restrictive
influence on “the development
of the State,” From the record
of some State post-war enter-
prises it is high time that
Socialist extravagance was
curbed, especially as regards pro-
jects conceived on the spur of
the political moment and carried
out in the style of window-
dressing to catch the capital-city
swinging vote.
One of the few items still in
short supply in the N. S. Wales
building industry is tiles. Of
bricks there is a surplus, cement
is freely available, and supplies
of timber are an embarrassing
record (to the trade); but there
is still up to a six-months wait
on terra-cotta tiles.
A few years back the McGirr
Government was going to alter
all this. With its customary
bounce and bluster the State
“Labor” Ministry introduced a
bill in 1947 to authorise con-
struction of a tileworks at Black-
town. Building of the works
followed resumption of a site in
May, 1948. Capital cost was
estimated in 1949 at £297,000,
inclusive of a fee of £6500 to
“a consultant” for preparation of
a design, supervision of erection
and instruction in regard to
processes until the works were
in satisfactory operation.
One of the first effects of the
tileworks’ erection was that it
caused an even greater scarcity
of bricks in the Sydney western
suburbs than had been the case
before. The tileworks, from the
outside, were a treat to the eye,
even though the bricks used in
their construction meant that
many sorely-needed cottages
could not be built.
But after £6026 had been paid
out in “consultant’s fees and
expenses” the Socialists found
that “expectations based on the
advice of the consultant as to
capital outlay and costs of
finished tiles” had not been
realised, and the arrangement
with him “was terminated.” In
the words of W. J. Campbell,
State Auditor-General:
' It was found towards the close
of the financial year 1949-50 that ex-
tensive alterations to the original
works installations and layout would
have to be made in order to put the
undertaking on a workable basis.
Following a report by an investi-
gatory committee representative of
the Public Service Boarfl, the
Treasury and the Department of
Public Works, the Government in
March, 1951, approved of the pro-
vision of additional funds for this
purpose.
Inclusive of net costs totalling
£96,508 for trial production, expendi-
ture to June 30, 1951, is shown in
the books of the undertaking at
£460,543. The present estimate of the
full cost, inclusive of production
losses, is £660,000, and as consider-
able work has yet to be completed
it is not anticipated that trading
production will commence before
the close of the present calendar
year [1951].
Up to a year ago it had cost
£96,508 for “trial production.”
What other “trials” have cost
since, and what the total capital
cost to the end of last month
was, is a matter for morbid
speculation. But it is perfectly
clear that the N. S. Wales
Socialists’ efforts to manufacture
tiles “and so relieve the housing
shortage” has to date been a
complete and costly fiasco. A
“tileworks” which has cost some-
thing like three-quarters of a
million now appears to be chiefly
engaged in the manufacture of
bricks and earthenware pipes.
The Minister in charge of the
tileworks until a few months ago
was none other than John Joseph
Cahill, then Secretary for Public
Works and Minister for Local
Government, and now Premier
of the State. The Socialists are
for ever carping about the need
for greater effLiency on the
management side of private
enterprise in order to improve
the standard of living and main-
tain anomalies like the 40-hour
week. Well, here is an example
of the Socialist management
under the guiding hand of no less
a personage than the present
Premier of the senior State of
Australia. A little more of this
sort of management and inter-
ference and N. S. Wales industry
will break down altogether.
Newcastle Harbor Dredges
“P. Mobile”: The statement
by “Abdul Assiz” (B. 16/7/’52)
that the Dutch dredge, H.A.M.
301, is responsible for about
40 p.c. of the silt removed
from Newcastle harbor is
correct if the total period
from the date on which
the H.A.M. 301 started operat-
ing is taken into account. It
does not, however, give a true
picture of the present position,
since the performance of the
Dutch vessel has improved with
“We encourage prisoners to indulge in their favorite
hobby.”
increasing knowledge of local
conditions, while that of the
Richard Vowell has deteriorated.
The June figures (approximate
only, but not far from the truth)
are of interest in this connection.
In thousands of tons the quantity
of silt removed has been;
H.A.M., 287; Richard Vowell,
98; other Government-owned
dredges operating in the harbor
proper, 56 ; Lantona and H. E.
Street, operating in the Hexham
channel, 15.
The H.A.M. 301 must thus be
credited with 65 p.c. of the silt
removed, during June, from the
harbor proper and for 48 p.c.
of all the silt dredged.
It is to be hoped that the
technique of the Government
dredges will have improved
sufficiently, by the time the
Dutch contract is completed, to
maintain the condition in which
Newcastle harbor then finds it-
self. Two aids to this end are
suggested: Firstly, that the
dredger crews be put on a con-
tract basis and paid by results,
the price per ton of silt removed
being adjusted according to the
distance which has to be travelled
to discharge the silt; and,
secondly, that the design of any
dredges built or acquired by the
Government shall be rpodified in
view of the performances of the
H.A.M. 301 and the Richard
Vo well.
Under such a scheme there is
little doubt that high wages
would be earned by the Aus-
tralian crews and that there
would be plenty of volunteers
for the work. At the same time,
the cost per ton of silt removed
would be very much below that
incurred at present by the
Government-owned fleet.
N.Z. Newsprint Project
Funds without dollar tags for
New Zealand’s outsize Muru-
para newsprint, pulp and timber
project are within reach since
governor E. C. Fussell, of the
Reserve Bank, explored prospects
abroad and returned with news
which was like music to Maori-
landers’ ears: that the scheme
could be financed without ratify-
ing the BrettonWoodsAgreement
or joining the I.M.F. and the
World Bank, So N.Z. is in a
position to go ahead with its
top-ranking industrial project
without having to face up to he
question of whether or not it
should seek Bretton Woods
membership. The contentious
issue may be shelved for another
few years, if not indefinitely, and
Maorilanders are duly thankful
to the governor.
To help the scheme further,
the plans are being pruned to cut
down the cost from the original
estimate of £3O million to some-
where near £2O million by leav-
ing the sawmill programme until
later and building only one pulp-
mill, instead of two, each with
60,000 tons newsprint capacity
yearly, in the establishment stage.
Maoriland isn’t as sure of the
market for softwoods as it was
a while back, and the Tasman
Pulp and Paper co., with pro-
posed capital of £6 million,
doesn’t want to find itself over-
committed in its infancy. There’s
no telling how long it might be
until the market recovers from
the present setback, and M.L. is
guided by the advice of a
Swedish financier and indus-
trialist in its decision to pick its
steps.
An interesting stock at the
moment is Mauri Bros, and
Thomson ords. at 41s. 6d. Prior
to the bonus and cash issue the
div.-rate was 15 p.c., and last
year’s disclosed earnings were
24.9 p.c. on the ord. total. A
10 p.c. div. on an ord. capital in-
creased to times the old figure
would call for earnings of 25 p.c.
on that old figure. That is not
beyond the bounds of possibility.
But on an 8 p.c div. basis the
yield would be £3 17s. per cent,
at 41s. 6d., with excellent pros-
pects. The last time ord. capital
was doubled by a bonus issue fin
1926) the div.-rate was lowered
from 20 p.c. to 15 p.c. Chief
lines of the co. and its
subsidiaries are bottle-seals and
equipment for brewers, aerated-
water manufacturers, hotel-
keepers, restaurateurs, confec-
tioners, etc.


From a banker’s diary No, 5
introduce his son, John (18),
who opened a cheque account
with an initial deposit of £lO
m
wm.
m
mmi
m
|
: ■
Make an early start on the right road
This man has been our customer for some
time. He believes that the sooner young people
learn to handle their own money the better. So
when his son began to earn a regular income,
he brought him into the Bank to open his own
cheque account.
For parents who believe in giving their
children sound financial training, the “Wales”
has published a folder—“A cheque account for
A 3
your son or daughter.” Ask for
a copy at any branch of
ẅ
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5206C
Profit by HIGHER interest!
INVEST TODAY
AT
£4100%
IN
THE SYDNEY
COUNTY COUNCIL
LOAN No. 51
The Loan is issued at par and is repayable in 196 a.
£4/10/-% is the HIGHEST rate offered by a N.S.W.
security of this class since 1939, and you can earn
£45 from each £lOO that you invest—an easy way
to save MORE money.
The Loan's security is excellent; it is secured on
the Council’s whole income estimated to total
£13,500,000 in 1952—and is
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN NEW SOUTH WALES
Proceeds will assist in developing the electricity distribution system serving 1,100,000 people.
APPLY TODAY
A Prospectus and application form can be obtained
from—
• Any branch of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia;
• Your Stockbroker;
L t
• The Council’s city and suburban offices.
The Loan will close on or before sth August, 1952,
and is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of
The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
It is proverbial that the
treasures at one’s own back-
door are passed by with a dis-
dainful look, while those far
afield are sought after with pur-
poseful eagerness. Two years
ago, after having travelled some
800 miles for a change of scene,
one remembers climbing out of
an Alpine bed at 5 a.m. in order
to make a day pilgrimage of
200-odd further miles to
Mozart’s birthplace at Salzburg.
Two weeks ago the same two
people waited in an English lane
for the 10.15 bus and were set
down an hour later within a
stone’s throw of the birthplace
of no less mighty a genius. They
managed to see the showplaces
and the church where he is
buried, to spend the entire after-
noon at a performance of one of
his greatest works, and to return
to their Cotswold hotel with time
to spare for seven-o’clock dinner.
And this, let it be admitted with
shame, was a first visit to a
world-famous literary shrine not
100 miles from their London
flat!
Stratford-on-Avon, with Shak-
speare and All That, has the
reputation, perhaps, of greater
show than substance. Yet,
remembering that Will could give
Wolfgang 200 years, the state of
preservation of the Tudor town
is no less than astonishing. The
graceful Clopton Bridge, built
450 years ago, still carries main-
road traffic. It is true that the
four showplaces—John Shak-
speare’s house in Henley-street,
New Place Museum, Hall’s
Croft (home of Will’s daughter,
Susanna, and her husband), and
Anne Hathaway’s cottage at
near-by Shottery—are assured of
anxious care and constant
renovation. But the Grammar
School, where Will “almost
certainly” went to school, is so
“period” as to seem, if not to
be, decrepit. Holy Trinity
Church by the river, with its
tranquil, green English setting,
is still actively the parish church.
Those who come to see the
grave, the famous Janssen
bust and the authentic baptismal
and death entries in the parish
register, are barred admission on
Sundays unless they come also
to worship.
The fact that so much is
known about the Mozarts (due
partly to their contemporary
fame and partly to their pen-
chant for writing letters to each
other) makes the archivist’s
task comparatively light; but the
same tasteful thoroughness
hardly extends to the crude
selection of relics in the
emblazoned birthplace in
Getreidegasse, Salzburg. Strat-
ford, although left so little in
documentation of her illustrious
son, shows no similar lapse of
good taste. Yet the exhibits are
precariously spun out. The
Shakspeariana of odd legal
documents, folios, Plutarch’s
Lives, Holinshed’s Chronicles,
and so on have to be reinforced
with cases of coins and flowers
mentioned in the plays, contem-
porary furniture and knick-
knacks, leather bottles and
“empties” of sack and canary.
And there is as much David
Garrick as Shakspeare.
Enigma
To wander, browsing, in the
twisty half-timbered shades
between the Avon and Rother-
street is profoundly moving, the
more so with the Mozart parallel
in mind. For Mozart despised
his home-town and experienced
neither triumph nor comfort on
return. He died in Vienna and
was buried in a pauper’s grave
during a snowstorm. In hurry-
ing for shelter, his mourners
forgot the site of his grave,
which has been lost for ever.
Shakspeare obviously retired
a very wealthy man, even for
those times. New Place was a
considerable estate, and it is
recorded that “Hee spent att ye
Rate of £lOOO a year”—a fan-
sum indeed, which might easily
correspond to £20,000, tax-free,
today. He also must have liked
Stratford, or he wouldn’t have
chosen to five there after regular
visits over the years. He is
known to have bought New
Place in 1597, at the age of 33,
while he was still an actor.
Fourteen years later he retired,
well-enough breeched to live in
style for a further five years.
And during the 14 years he wrote
more than a dozen plays, includ-
ing three of the best comedies
(“Much Ado,” “As You Like
It” and “Twelfth Night”), four
of the major tragedies (“Julius
Caesar,” “Hamlet,” “Othello” and
“Macbeth”) and one history
(“Henry V”).
The composer and the poet-
dramatist had this only in
common: they were both, by
virtue of their professions,
socially inferior. Mozart loved
composing to the exclusion
of all else and had no
head for business. What of
Shakspeare, who most certainly
had a very keen sense of busi-
ness? Was his dramatic genius,
nourished and fired as it was
with sublime poetry, merely an
assembly-line to supply the play-
houses on Bankside, in which
the other Will had a substantial
financial interest and kept a
constant eye, not in fine frenzy
rolling, but astutely upon
receipts and payments? There
is much to support this argument,
for practically all of his col-
leagues were well-to-do ; and the
background to the playhouse was
hardly that of a country estate
(one just cannot imagine the
stylised gentility of “Twelfth
Night” alongside bear-baiting,
cockfighting, roistering and
stews).
Perhaps Master Shakspeare of
London, theatre-owner, would
appear to his landed contem-
poraries in the same light as a
super-spiv to our own age. It
may have suited him to lead two
lives, professional and private,
and to keep them watertight.
The man of property may indeed
have been self-conscious about
his dubious stock - in - trade,
letters, as being unbecoming to
a country gentleman; and the
little that is known of him may
well have been the result of his
own deliberate reticence. And,
since Stratford was then far
enough away from London, such
a double life would not have
been difficult to lead.
Memorial Theatre
If the amenities of Olympus
include a roving spotlight for
the immortals to view their
earthly haunts, Shakspeare’s turn
might present him with some
astonishing contradictions. In
passing, he would find the wide
plain of green meadows and
dotted trees, the Avon curving
in silvered flashes, and the
distant crouching hills little
changed from his boyhood.
Square-towered churches that
were centuries old when he was
born still mark villages whose
names are pronounced as they
were before the Normans came.
(He might also imagine that
present-day gentry and wealthy
yeomen still lived in the Tudor
houses with steep gables, half-
timbered walls and thatched
roofs. Would he realise that
many of these mansions are
studiously of recent build,
expensively equipped as inns so
that modern travellers can hurl
breakneck from one Olde
Worlde village to the next?)
But what of the new
Memorial Theatre that rises
abruptly and angularly from the
banks of the Avon, greater in
size even than that wonder of his
day, Westminster Hall, and
dedicated to the performance of
his plays? He might raise a
quizzing eyelid at the march of
progress which enabled the
Burbage of today, John Gielgud,
to appear as Petruchio in the
evening in London and to pro-
duce “Macbeth” at Stratford
during the day. He would
admire the versatility of the
theatre’s director, Anthony
(Continued on page 19.)


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Youanmi”: Scene: Upper deck of
midnight bus; well-dressed middle-aged
man half-asleep on a seat to himself;
lively young couple in the seat behind
him. Act 1: Girl takes out compact and
powders face with such enthusiasm that a
scattering of the stuff settles on the
shoulder of the coat of the chap in front.
Interval; Young couple in whispered
consultation. Act 2: Young chap takes
compact and adds a bit more powder to
the old chap’s shoulder; pulls a couple
of blonde hairs from companion’s head
while she grimaces with simulated pain ;
hairs gently and neatly added to powder.
Interval; Further consultation, and titters
and smiles from audience in bus. Act 3:
Old chap bestirs himself and gets off bus
at next stop. Finale; A matter for specu-
lation, but if the old chap’s married and
if he’s now in trouble the foregoing
report might be of some assistance to him.
In fact, it might pay more than one bloke
to cut this par. out and keep it for future
reference.
“Your cuppa , dear."
“Oliver Filter”: An English company
which has reduced the price of its pro-
ducts by 10 per cent, announces that it,
has done so “in the interests of the
nation.” In these hungry times of buyer
resistance and whatnot that’s a wonder-
fully selfless gesture, but it is not
altogether unique. Many of the big
rag-shops, now spending a lot of money
on slightly hysterical advertising to
announce that they are selling at “less
than cost” and other philanthropic prices,
are no doubt motivated by “the interests
of the nation”; and the worried expres-
sion of the little chap with a conk like
Gibraltar as he stands outside his window
wherein prices have been slowly and
painfully reduced from week to week
must almost certainly be due to a great
and burning upsurge of patriotism in his
bosom. Then there’s my mate, Bill. A
while ago he was pulling in about £l7 a
week for taking it easy as a builder’s
laborer. The spirit must have moved him,
because he’s loading trucks now for £l2,
and raising a sweat. His is a smaller
gesture than those of the big concerns,
but the same selfless thought is probably
behind it, and that, after all, is what
matters.
* * * *
“Bo”; It having been brought to their
astonished attention that almost nightly
a couple of thousand, midwinter concert-
goers have to provide themselves with
rugs in the large draughty barn which
Sydney flatters by the name of a concert-
hall, so that some visiting virtuoso’s music
won’t be swamped by the massed chatter-
ing of teeth, the Civic Fathers, with
commendable promptitude, bent their
giant intellects to the task of ameliorating
the music-lovers’ martyrdom. At first
they considered putting radiators on the
side-wall shelves, which had in the pre-
blackout era been put up specially to
take them; then they discovered that
regulations forbade their being switched
on before 8 p.m. The idea of switching
radiators on legally at 8 p.m.—solo recitals
never start before 8.15 —and leaving them
on till the concert’s end was far too daring
a one to entertain, so the Bumbles hit
upon a really brilliant temperature-raising
notion. There are three double-doors
leading from the foyer to the main hall;
previously the practice had been to have
all three open prior to the commence-
ment so as to allow freer ingress. They
would keep the centre one shut! The
result was quite sensational —the tempera-
ture inside the Town Hall at the next
concert rose spectacularly from 41.9 deg.
to 41.91 deg.! Intoxicated by their
success, the aldermen are now expected
to follow their scheme to its natural
conclusion by barring use of all the doors
and lowering patrons into the hall through
cautiously-opened and quickly-shut fan-
lights. The temperature inside should
then be so ungelid that concertgoers
might even be able to discard the second
overcoat and two or three scarves. Rugs,
of course, will still be worn.
* * *
“Brick E.”: Our job is a happy one,
and happy men sing, whistle or hum at
their work. Sometimes the efforts are
not noticeably melodious ; still, they sound
well enough in the ears of the perpe-
trators. But the Italian brickie never
gave way to the musical urge —which was
a wonder, considering his nationality and
happy disposition. “Sing, Mario,” the
laborer urged. The New Australian’s
forehead crinkled. “Not understan’,” he
said. “You know,” interpreted another
brickie. “Sing—doh, soh, doh. Caruso.”
“Oh, the Caruso!” Mario’s big smile
flashed. “Nor, nor. Nota me sing.” I
wasn’t deceived—l’d heard the rich, roll-
ing choruses of Italian market-gardeners
as the vegetable-truck brought them home
from a dance. We tried to coax him in
with “Beneath Thy Window.” He re-
mained silent. Snatches from “Faust”
did no good. Neither did “Hi yi-yi-yi.”
But when somebody started “La Donna e
Mobile” Mario burst forth in full
strength. It was the greatest surprise I’ve
had since the broadest of Scotch
Carpenters asked me to “Wepair a cwack
in the concwete.” I would never have
believed there could be such a thing as a
tone-deaf Italian!
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Time was when the theatre
had a certain dignity and repose, and an
actor who had played a part in a world-
beater 1399 times could be sure of a few
weeks’ respite on the long voyage out
from London to Australia while the local
Press-agents took the opportunity of
"I t's the modern flat-life that's causing the depression in OUR business !”
building up his reputation. But nowadays
the aeroplane not only carries baled wool,
chocolate, fish, berry-pulp for jam-
making, motor-cars and stud bulls from
Tasmania to the mainland (as per
A.N.A.’s latest bulletin), but singers,
fiddlers and ballerinas between one assign-
ment and another. The Borovansky
Ballet recently flew from Brisbane to
Perth, 2300 miles, to continue its season
without missing a single night’s perform-
ance. After six weeks in the western
metropolis it packed up its 50 members
and their impedimenta one Saturday night
and flew 1400 miles to Adelaide, to open
the following Monday.
* * ♦ ♦
“Teeperce”: Whenever my gorge rises
at the sight of the outlandish garb sported
by the genus bodgie I calm myself with
the recollection of young Smithy, who,
at the mature age of 17, sailed with our
mob in 1939. Smithy fell foul of all
authority as a result of his habit of alter-
ing every article of issue to the form in
which he thought it should appear, thus
giving it an individuality all his own. His
malady progressed with his service, and
only our timely arrival prevented two 6ft.
Northumberland Fusiliers from roughly
handling the distinctly abusive Italian
general whom they dug out of a dugout
on the outskirts of Bardia. The Itie
general proved to be Smithy, who had
been first into the dugout and from spoils
there had secured himself raiment more
colorful than his drab khaki.
Other units in Tobruk took a
poor view of our allowing our
runner to do his chores in the
gorgeous uniform of a private
of an I tie naval searchlight
battery, and Smithy was put on
the mat. He compromised to
the extent of clothing himself in
the garb of a Tommy A.S.C.
Don R. It was in this guise
that he landed in Greece, where,
this time against his will, he
acquired another uniform —
issued him, along with other
p.-0.-w., by the Jerries.
“Ceg”: I have been browsing through
one of those home-doctor books, identify-
ing my symptoms with most of the more
deadly diseases in the medical calendar.
The book is copiously illustrated with
photographs showing all the shining
internal plumbing of the human body. 1
was particularly interested in one which
depicted all the innards in the region of
the stomach. I have also been studying
the handbook supplied to me when
buying my car, and I now suggest that
the machinery of the human body is far
less complicated than that of a modern
car-engine, and I cannot understand why
a first-grade motor-mechanic should be
rated in a lower category than a doctor.
And when it comes to aircraft engines
the quack is simply not in it.
“Alma”: Until Hitler broke my
illusions, I had always thought the
swastika to be symbolic of good luck
(B. 25/6/’52). There was always one on
those little cards of silver symbols that
were sold to put in the Christmas pud-
dings. Kipling seems to have been hap-
hazard about the way the arms pointed ;
in my family’s copy of Just So Stories
the arms go clockwise on the frontispiece,
whilst in our Jungle Book they go the
other way. I think Rudyard also had the
symbol incorporated in his personal book-
plate.
* * * *
“Findy”: Don’t know about dog-hating
cats (B. 9/7/’52), but there’s one cat
in a harborside suburb that has every
reason to feel crooked against humans.
He mewed gratefully on a recent cold
morning when the master of the house
picked him up off the back doorstep
and placed him in the warm kitchen and
shut the door. He was even more grate-
ful when he found a whole pint of milk
left there for his benefit, and, being a
trusting animal, he saw nothing remark-
able in the fact that the milk, instead of
being poured into a saucer, was disposed
partly in a pool on the floor and partly
among a mess of broken crockery on
the table. It all tasted alike to puss, who
was stiff lapping contentedly when the
mistress of the house entered the kitchen.
It was what happened then that upset
the cat’s faith in human nature. He
wasn’t able to explain, even if he had
known, that the one really responsible
for dropping the bottle of milk on top
of the cups and saucers was already half-
way into town.
S! # * *
“Clooter”: Because he is opposed to
capital punishment a Frenchman named
Cayatte has made a film depicting the
horrors of the condemned-cell, and it is
said to be packing Parisian theatres.
Cayatte, with the assistance of prison
officials and police, showed four warders
gripping the condemned, the last walk to
the guillotine, a cynical prison barber
smoking a cigarette while he shaved the
condemned neck, the condemned man,
bound, being dragged the last few yards
to execution. It is all “designed to stir
French consciences against the grim pro-
cedure of the official execution.” I’m all
for it, provided the producer will now
make a film depicting the horrors suffered
by the murderer’s victim, who never seems
to get a mention in these matters and
who is just as entitled as the killer to
have the last fearful moments recorded.
Whether that would stir murderers’ con-
sciences against the grim procedure of
murder is another matter.
« * « *
“Metax”: The death of the American
rare-book dealer. Dr. A. S. W. Rosen-
bach, recalls that he was twice the pur-
chaser of the MS. of Alices Adventures
Under Ground. In 1928 the hammer fell
to his bid of £15,400 at Sotheby’s,
London. The MS. crossed the Atlantic
and changed hands, but was auctioned
in New York 20 years later. He was
again the buyer, this time for $50,000.
His second purchase was for Dr. Luther
Evans, librarian of Congress, who, with
a little band of private subscribers, had
plans to return it to the land of its origin.
On November 20, 1948, the idea was
fulfilled by Dr. Evans personally present-
ing the MS. to the principal trustee of
the British Museum*
ON THE QUESTION BEING PUT.
As I walked forth one winter day
To exercise my indigestion,
A lovely lady came my way
And begged my answer to a question;
I graciously inclined the head —
To aid the questing fair, none prouder —
Whereon the lovely lady said,
“Tell me, do you use talcum powder?”
I’ve often burned with wild desires
To figure in an inquisition,
But public ones, like Davey’s, Dyer’s,
Or Dovey’s, are not my ambition;
Rather, indeed, than volunteer
For money, to describe a howdah,
Or lie for fun in Sydney beer,
I think I’d take a talcum powder.
But men I know spend half their lives
Answering polls for pretty Pollies:
“How often do you heat your wives?”
“Are you in favor of the Folies?”
“Where were you born, and, if so, why?”
“Have you tried Clyster’s Canned Clam-
Chowder?”
“Do you like shaving wet, or dry?”—
Fair questions, these; but . . . talcum powder!
I feel the world deserves to have
The benefit of my experience
On any question, gay or grave,
From zipper-fasteners to aperients—
If you were in the ten-per-cent
Who said something should be allowed, or
Something should not, you’d feel life meant
Something beyond—well—talcum powder.
Ah, Life, for most a curious minx,
Has deigned to ask me no such riddle
As that she put before the Sphinx—
Only a bit of faddle-fiddle!
When I am dead, should she insist
To know with what truth I endowed her,
They’ll answer, “Swilliam? Journalist?
He said; T don’t use talcum powder.’ ”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“A.E.S.”: In a novel I am reading a
young man is preparing for a trip; he
packs his shirts, ties and sox unobtrusively
in order not to offend the garments he
is leaving. Animism, my dictionary calls
it —“the attribution of a living soul to
inanimate objects.” I wonder how
common that is. Savages subscribed to
it: seeing life in sun, wind and rain ;
worshipping inanimate gods. Children,
too, are animists—their dolls see and hear
and feel. But how common is it, I
wonder, among adult civilised people?
My wife, I know, is an animist: our
child’s dolls have, for her, each its own
personality. Less humanlike things, too,
have feelings—she will eat an unpopular
jam so that it will not feel hurt. Many
a laugh I’ve had at her, believing myself
too sophisticated for such nonsense. But
one day I tossed a rug carelessly on the
doll’s bed; when I left the room I felt
vaguely uneasy. I went back. The teddy-
bear’s face was covered by the rug; I
moved it so that he could breathe easily.
Before you laugh, have a good think.
* * * *
“Meekatharra”: A story from Vienna
tells how a sheet of metal falling from
a lorry decapitated a passing motor-
cyclist ; the motor-bike, with its headless
rider, kept going and knocked down a
woman and child; the lorry-driver
dropped dead from shock when he saw
the headless cyclist ride past, and his
lorry crashed into and damaged a house.
Cynics might ask by whom and how
was the cause of the truck-driver’s death
determined, but it’s an odd tale and on
a par with the one from the U.S.A. a
few years ago. Two women driving past
a funeral glanced at the coffin in the
hearse as they passed ; at that precise
moment the “corpse” recovered, pushed
off the lid, sat up and looked about him
The women were so impressed that they
crashed their car into a telegraph-post.
They claimed later that the corpse had
winked at them, but that was possibly
a feminine or journalistic embellishment.
* * * Jp
“D.H.R.”; July 16 was the 91st birth-
day of the Toowoomba “Chronicle,” the
founding of which paper, in 1861, was
probably one of the most optimistic
ventures in Australian journalism.
Toowoomba’s population could hardly
support one newspaper, let alone two ;
for when Darius Hunt, previously pub-
lisher of the “Parramatta Chronicle,”
brought his press to these parts, the
“Darling Downs Gazette” was already
precariously established. Its first issue
had appeared at Drayton on June 10,
1858, under the proprietorship of A. S.
Lyons ; its type and printing-press had
been carried by boat from Brisbane to
Ipswich and then by bullock-wagon from
Ipswich to Drayton. The paper was
transferred to Toowoomba just before the
arrival of the “Chronicle.” By the mid-
1860’s the two bi-weeklies were not only
vying with each other for news and
advertisements but, by their rivalry, were
contributing to the district’s growth.
Rivalry ended on October 2, 1922, when
the first issue of the “Toowoomba
Chronicle and Darling Downs Gazette”
(soon to be best known as the
“Chronicle”) appeared, with a daily circu-
lation of 9000. Before the amalgamation
the “Gazette” underwent many changes
of ownership. Some of the changes, by
virtue of the men associated with them,
were notable ; for example, S. G. Stephens
(father of A. G. Stephens) in 1871, W. H.
Traill (who later edited The Bulletin)
in 1877, and Sir Thomas Mcllwraith and
the National party in 1882. The
“Chronicle,” on the other hand, only
changed premises—four times! W. H.
Groom (first Mayor of Toowoomba and
Speaker in the Queensland Parliament)
assumed full proprietorship from Darius
Hunt in 1876, and used the paper to
further closer-settlement and agriculture
around Toowoomba. The paper re-
mained in the Groom family until the
amalgamation with the “Gazette,” under
Andrew Dunn, in 1922. A. G. Stephens
used to handle type in the composing-
room of the “Gazette” ; George Essex
Evans once “subbed” for the “Chronicle.”
* * * *
“Heresone”; If imitation is really the
sincerest form of flattery Harold Mercer
must have stood high in popular esteem.
At any rate, plenty of people liked to bask
in his reputation. The first such I met
many years ago. Finding that I had had
pars, in The Bulletin he confided that
he did a bit himself ; I’d probably noticed
his pen-name —“Hamer.” I didn’t tell
him I knew better, but when he followed
up by trying to bite me for a loan, I
knew what to say. I have met quite a
few since then who admit, with somewhat
arrogant mock-modesty, that they are
indeed “Hamer.” Strange to say I have
never heard anyone claim any other pen-
name ; it has always been “Hamer.” I
wonder whom the vultures will elect as
his successor?
* * * *
“W.M.H.”: Although there was a good
motive for the murder of Rudolph Diesel
(B. 25/6/’52) —he was on his way to
England to divulge secrets of his inven-
tion to the Admiralty—there is, little
doubt that he committed suicide. On
the night he disappeared, friends who
crossed the Channel with him noticed that
he behaved strangely. After wishing
them goodnight he returned a few minutes
later and, with an unusual display of
emotion, said goodnight again. Rudolph,
junior, said later that his father had dis-
cussed methods of suicide with him and
that he, unaware that his father was in
(gu 5 sTO^
“ We ARE being impulsive, Oswald. We can't live on love alone."
earnest, had suggested that the best way
was to jump overboard from a fast-
moving ship. To say “Diesel’s finances
weren’t in a very good way” is a polite
understatement. The Diesel empire was
at the end of its financial tether. Most
of Diesel’s private property was mort-
gaged, and to raise money to popularise
further his engine he had speculated and
lost heavily in real estate. Although he
had many wealthy friends he was too
proud to admit the full extent of bis
financial difficulties. When he died he
owed over £lOO,OOO. The last chance to
prove conclusively the cause of death was
lost when the crew of a Dutch vessel
found a body in the Channel. They
removed the contents of the pockets and
threw the body back into the sea. The
contents were subsequently identified as
Rudolph Diesel’s.
Sf * * *
“Pawang”: I see that a Sydney plastic
surgeon is to perform a series of opera-
tions to change the face of a delinquent
youth whose life of crime, the psychiatrists
say, is due to his resentment against his
features, which earned him the name
of “Monkeyface.” Merely altering his
face won’t do it. Socrates was extra-
ordinarily ugly, but his ill-looks didn’t
“Before you put me to bye-byes, can I have a hot-Water bottle, please ?”
prevent him becoming a great thinker;
they probably helped him. Shakspeare
was lame and Byron had a club-foot.
Both men, no doubt, resented their defects,
but they reacted into poetry. If a plastic
surgeon had removed Shakspeare’s lame-
ness he might not have written “Richard
III,” which is, to some degree, a self-
portrait. When the hunchback Richard
walked into a drawing-room he produced
a thrill of horror ; whereas the handsome
Clarence evoked a thrill of pleasure. The
way Richard manipulated that situation
was to turn a kingdom topsy-turvy and
grab a crown ; and when he had the crown
on his head the ladies who had previously
despised him fawned round him. Clarence
was so handsome that he didn’t have to
make any effort to get the favors of the
ladies, so he finished up in a butt of
Malmsey. The crown that Shakspeare
put on his own head was the crown of
poetry, and it is the same with every
artist. Crime is a sublimation, just as
art is ; but unfortunately for the criminal.
it isn’t a kind of sublimation of which
society approves. That delinquent youth
is saying, in effect, “1 can’t behave better
because I’ve got such an ugly face.” But
if he gets a handsome one that won’t
change his associations or give him any
more skill. If the only skill or interest
he has is in cracking cribs, he will find
another excuse to permit his continuing
in that pastime.
* * * *
“O’Johnno”: When thieves ransacked
the home of a former Launceston (Tas.)
man eight months ago they collected all
his suits but the one he stood up in and
a dinner-suit, as well as overcoats, blan-
kets, suitcases, hatboxes and a radio-set.
Police made arrests within a few days
of the burglary, and recovered practically
all the loot. The case dragged on so
long in the criminal court, however, that
the owners have only just got their pro-
perty back; it had to be impounded as
police evidence. Meanwhile clothing
replacements had to be bought, a radio
borrowed, and, when a special occasion
necessitated the best suit, this had to be
borrowed from the police-station and
taken back straightway. Still, the owner
should now get another eight months’
wear out of the suits.
% Hi * ♦
“Taswegian”: Bath-heaters (B.
16/7/’52)? We were on our last day of
the 60-odd miles hike from Lake St.
Clair (Tas.), and as we crossed Cradle
Plateau, 4000 ft. up, we were whipped by
a storm of hail driven by a strong wind.
We nearly froze; when we dropped into
Cradle Valley we thawed enough to start
shivering. The chalet-keepers immediately
got hot baths ready. I stripped *off and
jumped in. I nearly hit the ceiling; the
water was just under boiling-point.
Strangely, I couldn’t jump out, but leaped
frantically up and down, whooping like
an Indian on the warpath. I looked
wildly round for the cold-water tap;
there wasn’t a tap at all. Suddenly the
door burst open and the chalet-keeper
rushed in, leaned across the bath and
yanked at a piece of wood. Instantly
a stream of freezing water shot into the
bath. The tap was simply a tapered plug
of wood pushed through a hole in the
wall into the end of a pipe.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Long before prefabricated
houses came into the news, dwellings in
moribund Westralian mining towns were
dismantled and re-erected in Perth’s
waterside suburbs or elsewhere. The
present housing shortage has made history
repeat itself, but something like a climax
has been reached with the sale of a
“ghost town,” known as Hakea Mill, in
the timber country between Dwellingup
and Boddington, about 90 miles from
Perth The township was established
years ago by the State Sawmills, to house
about 200 ( employees. The area has long
been “cut out” for commercial purposes,
and the 29 houses and 30 cottages have
been looked after by two resident care-
takers. The whole issue, including a
hall, garage and store, has now been sold
for removal. A valuable part of the
purchase is the water-piping, now in short
supply everywhere. Ten thousand feet
of piping will be pulled up and sold.
A DEPRESSED TRADE.
“The general impression among the non-racing
public is that all bookmakers are opulent. Actually,
many of them, what with high taxation and expenses,
have a struggle to make a decent living.”
—Sporting writer.
When next you gaze on Ike McOdds
And others of the fielding ilk,
Don’t think they all have outsize wads,
Wear shirts of double fuji-silk
And suits that cost no less than 30 guineas.
You really must be quite a fool
If you assume, as well you may,
That Ike has gone and scooped the pool
Simply because, at close of day,
Expansive and continuous his grin is.
That grin’s a mask to hide his pain,
For only five out of the six
Races were “skinners.” Thus his gain
Would naturally be almost nix.
It’s things like this that make a bookie
bitter.
In fact, so much he deems the game
Scarce worth his trouble to pursue,
You’ll hear him fervently exclaim
That could he live his life anew
He’d be a blacksmith’s striker, or a fitter.
Punters who lose their self-control
Will wildly claim, when hopes have slumped,
That all the “books” have won a roll
O’er which Jack Rice could not have jumped—
This you will recognise as so much twaddle.
Too many folk the impression gain
Of men of much rotundity
Making a sort of pleasure-train
As, lumping quite a treasury,
Towards their limousines they slowly
waddle.
It wrings the heart to know that those
Who swing the bag and yell the odds
Could make more cash by shooting crows,
A better living carrying hods.
Perforce how frugally, with what care they
buy!
They can’t afford —poor devils—sox;
Upon their uppers they must walk.
Their strides are frayed around the hocks,
And —though of this we shouldn’t talk—
Their clobber’s mostly purchased on the
lay-by.
How cruelly false the story is
That fielders go for fodder flash —
Like chicken Maryland and fizz—
Because they love to cut a dash!
For them it’s spuds and snags and pumpkin
humble.
So, when next time you “do” your quid
Upon some hairy goat, reflect,
It’s something for his starving kid.
He’s poorer far than you’d suspect.
Please, then, refrain from venting any
grumble.
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


THE ALL-POWERFUL
“B”
NOW AVAILABLE WITH
MATCHING EQUIPMENT
7“ «" noul H n °T H
f</# - *" *««•*«. «o uJZT r 3
2 "*■ '«'■ «o utoeo , so noUG 7 H " fNr
HYDRAULIC lift * s9 ®* >
i
i ~'**>
m
* ; 1 f/; $ J
mm
mm»&
mm
Now . . . everything you need for increasing production
The versatile Model “B” with its
versatile power is at present doing
a giant-sized job on thousands of
Australian farms and has all the
outstanding features you need to
tackle the tough jobs on your
property.
Now the Model “B” Tractor is
available with the matching equip-
ment that will further increase the
efficiency of your holding. For
further details consult your local
distributor.
AfC
ALUS-CHALMERS
mm
ẁ
N.S.W.: Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street, Homebush.
VICTORIA: Mitchell & Co. Pty. L,td., Footscray, Victoria. S. AUST.: John Shearer
& Sons Pty. litd., Kilkenny. \V. AUST.: Westralian Farmers Co-operative Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd., Brisbane. TASMANIA:
A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
11/83.36
Love a Duck
by MARY BELL
BETWEEN Gran, who had
been red Irish before
her hair turned to drifts
white as whipped egg-
white about her bird-face, and
Dad, who was a red Scot, there
were constant passages of arms
concerning what Gran called
“me few fowls.” Neither party
ever lost the chance of showing
the other a point—like those
weeks we had boiled poultry
every second night while Gran
was away on holidays, and she
returned to a depleted fowl-pen
peopled by one dejected rooster
and three even more dejected
hens. And the time Gran’s fowls
laid waste Dad’s seedling-beds.
Gran virtuously pointed out
that if Dad had fixed the fowl-
yard gate when she’d asked him,
’twouldn’t have happened, but
my sister and I had to stuff our
pinnies into our mouths to shut
in the tale we could have told.
We’d seen the old lady strewing
wheat in a long, thin trail from
the almost-shut gate over to the
flowerbeds.
Although we couldn’t actively
take sides, our sympathies were
with Gran; for, being city kids, we
adored livestock of any kind. Life
was always more interesting when
the dog had a couple of cats to
chase, and thecats had a fowlyard
to harass, and we were allowed
to feed the chooks and collect
the eggs and squabble about who
could have the brown ones.
j T was Higgledy who started
* the affair of the ducks.
Higgledy was a handsome red
hen whom Gran adopted. Per-
haps “rustled” would be the
better word.
“Sure, the bird jest walked into
the yard on me! ” she proclaimed
in high indignation when Dad
queried the cosily-settled hen in
the strawlined box under the
cypress hedge. Sure it had, too,
after Gran spotted it in the park
across the road and armed
herself with a fistful of wheat to
wheedle it into being caught and
carried up the drive. Higgledy
certainly had just walked into
the yard, to get at the plate of
grain and rest in the box of straw
inviting her from the shade of
the hedge.
Gran won that round; and
Dad consoled himself that one
pet red biddy was better than a
yardful of alleged good layers.
Gran was a gracious victor and
conceded him Higgledy’s daily
egg output for weeks. At the
same time she told my sister and
me that every egg we ate was
Higgledy’s. The production-
figures would have made
Higgledy some kind of Super-
hen, and a great pity it is that
the strain was lost. All her eggs
should have been reserved for
settings, with an eye to new
generations of Superhens.
At the end of the depression
the family shifted house, to a
larger block in a better suburb
(as these things go), meaning that
the neighbors weren’t going to
be so honest about doing homely
things like “keeping chooks.”
Dad, with strong backing from
Mum and Aunt Ell, who lived
with us and also hated poultry,
saw his chance to discard
Higgledy and, with her, all
unseemly memories of sagging
chicken-wire and ravaged seed-
lings. My sister and I set up
such a keening, and Gran went
about the house muttering so
much (and how she could mutter
when she wanted to be heard!),
that he gave up after a few days
of being adamant.
I don’t think he was softened
by our wheedling, but if there
was one chink in Dad’s Scots
armor it was his dread of being
thought “close.” Gran’s barrage
of half-accusations, addressed in
clear undertones to nobody in
particular as she served his
meals, were too much. Two or
three days of “Fancy deproivin’
the kids av a bit av a pet!” “Too
mean to feed a harmless bird
and it a good layer!” and
“Fancy begrudgin’ a poor hen a
handful of wheat!” —and he
succumbed. A crate was built
to stow Higgledy in ; she was
placed on top of the kitchen,
furniture when the removal-
van came and moved into the
new place with us.
FOR us the house-shift was
a nine-days wonder. We
soon settled down to hew out a
new existence in the wilderness
of the virgin backyard which
abounded in fresh yellow sand
for building mudpies.
Gran’s next move was a major
coup. Without warning, three
crates of assorted poultry were
dumped in the yard one spring
afternoon. At first glance it
appeared that Gran had been
poaching, snatching a bird here
and a bird there from all manner
of poultry-fanciers. Doubtful
possession of one nondescript
red hen had gone to her head.
The proud names of every breed
known to the Society of Poultry
Breeders whirled about us in an
impressive jumble. Wary Black
Orpingtons, fussily speckled
Plymouth Rocks, a bevy of
white-jacketed Leghorns and one
or two Rhode Island Reds all
jostled and clucked peevishly in
the crates, annoyed at the lack
of official welcome. Not to
mention a sprinkle of bantams
and, best of all, some ducks.
Ducks we’d never seen before,
and here were a matronly
Muscovy and two attendant
ducklings and a pair of vague-
eyed Indian Runners. We were
going to love those ducks! A
beached duck, bereft of weedy
ponds to potter in, is a thing of
joy to watch if you’re city-
slicker kids, and my sister and I
were. And they made such
splendid comic-strip noises!
No more comic-strip than was
Dad’s reaction to the three crates
when he got home from work.
My sister still says his hair stood
bolt upright and dislodged his
hat. Gran flung her gauntlet
before he could dose his mouth
to frame words,
“Now we’ve all this room I
can have me few fowls and
they’ll be right up the top av
the yard,” pronounced the old
girl firmly, and trudged off for
some water for her birds.
NEXT day a load of stout
jarrah beams arrived, with a
roll of cyclone-wire that would
have restrained man - eating
tigers; and Dad’s weekend was
spent putting up a fowlyard that
occupied a quarter of the yard,
He followed up with a de luxe
galvanised-iron shed, complete
with concrete floors and tubular-
steel perches. He got so solicitous
about the fowls that it looked as
if Gran had converted him. For
shade in summer he contrived a
V-shaped roof of old fruit-cases,
raised off the ground for venti-
lation. This so much resembled
the local ramshackle vaudeville
theatre that the family christened
it the Plaza. All this, and a
hole knocked in the dividing-
fence to give the birds the run
of the vacant block next-door.
MY sister and I adored feed-
ing the chooks, forty-strong,
Gran taught us to summon them
in from the vacant block with
shrieks of “took-took-took-took”
on a rising note, and, when
Higgledy hatched twelve out of
a baker’s dozen of Rhode Island
eggs, how to pick up the warm,
querulously - cheeping chicks
without crushing-in their flutter-
ing little breasts. We named
nearly all the birds except the
dozen or so half-grown White
Leghorns, who baffled us with
their cold amber eyes and
anonymity. As they were
destined for chicken-broth and
mayonnaise before their vast
grazing-country put muscles and
sinews in their tender drumsticks,
that was just as well.
And the ducks. Ah, the
ducks! Stranded, landlocked
out of their element—everybody
seemed to develop a soft spot for
them. Soon after they moved in
Gran reported the waste-water
tray of the ice-chest to be no
earthly good. It vanished from
its place; and after a couple of
days of oily butter and milk on
the turn, a new one was installed.
A decent interval elapsed before
the ducks were discovered
delightedly puddling in a
rectangular, familiar - looking
receptacle, sunk in one sandy
corner of the fowlyard. Taxed
with the origin of the miniature
pond, Gran airily discouraged all
further discussion.
“Ach, it’s that old ice-chest
tray. I fixed it up a bit meself!”
Efficient fixing, too, the Old
One had done. For a tray once
described as “riddled wid rust,”
it made out well for years after,
its fixed-up bottom buried deep
enough to prevent the curious
from inspecting the repairs.
A curious name, Indian
Runners. But run they do, or at
least our two did. Running was
their pastime, their very reason
for existing. It seemed to
interest them more than eating or
and certainly more than
laying Indian Runner eggs. At
all hours, in all weathers, this
devoted pair ran. They did not
waddle like the other ducks,
They ran the L-shaped periphery
of the fowl-run plus the block
next-door, night and day. No
skirting corners or short-cutting,
either, but keeping close to the
fences and running the longest
way round . . . two slender birds
in a dream-world, in endless
glassy-eyed pursuit of some
duckish Grail. We never estab-
fished whether they slept. The
last sound in our windows at
night was Darby and Joan flat-
footing it by the dividing-fence
in the block next-door, and by
the time the family arose they
were out for their morning run.
~PHEIR marathon peirorm-
-1 ances perplexed Dad no enct
The aimlessness of it often e
him, yet its persistence impressea
him. His business-sense went
work on the problem. Lightning
calculations about feed con-
sumed and not translatea im
duck-eggs, which be rather likm.
gave him a legitimate groucn
against Darby and Joan,
“Damned things
plantm their aigs, pondenn
“C’mon, girrr-ls, well tracK em
down.” ,
So he and the 8 ' ’
were my sister and I. spent more
MIRROR FOR DEAD EYES.
(1) THE CHILD.
He had always believed there were no cats left on the hills,
Thai] they were extinct, shot out before his time;
But feathers and blood marked the floor, and: “What beast
kills
Like that?” he said; and waited three nights with a gun,
Heard three deaths, fired three shots, but the killer was gone.
My granddad told him: "That’s never the work of a fox.
But I remember the cat’s way when I was a lad,
You must roost a young white hen in a trap-sided box
Set down where he’s holed your fence beside the drive.”
Our neighbor, the fourth night, caught the creature alive.
It spat and grabbed the bars with its tail, and evil
Shone so at him from its yellow eyes while its claws
Were tearing the box apart; “Had to shoot the devil!”
He said, as we silently came to inspect. It hung
From a low straight gum-branch, with its long tail strung
Over the bark and curled tight, even in death.
There were beautiful spots like florins on its brown coat.
And its pouch was large and soft, and I drew my breath
Softly and gladly, for somewhere a kitten, half-grown,
I hoped was strong enough to hunt on its own.
And having seen this, which nobody else remarked,
I kept my first secret. Black blood formed a pool.
My granddad spoke gently: “See how its fur is marked.”
But I turned to her image in the blood, feeling wicked and
wise.
And peeped at myself in that mirror for dead eyes.
(2) THE OLD MAN.
The native cat he shot hangs limp and dead
And through dull yellow slits it seems to peer
At the pool of blood congealed that dripped and spread
As its shattered body swung. It is strange how fear
Still prickles from hooked tail and unsheathed claws
As if more than a lonely survivor is swinging here.
As if more than bullet snapped those pointed jaws,
As if a carcass of hatred came out of the hill,
To snarl of uncowed wildness out there, to rise
Against the stolid settlements; old blood to spill
And harden to a mirror for dead eyes.
n.s.w.
NANCY KEESING.


ẃ
SAE
<r>
0-1
(A
£
r»
fdCt.r-*
sm
0
0
r
o-ife
©
A?
0> *0 a. C°
-s. /;
Hv, S
Hv»||
the Stout
that’s a great
Winter drink!
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
SS. 165
A Military Hospital demands
NOISELESS, EFFICIENT, ( DEPENDABLE*
<r-yer'Viee
THAT’S WHY THE LIFTS ARE BY OTIS
Yes, like every other important hospital Repatriation Hospital,
Heidelberg, relies on Otis Lifts to provide the ultimate in service
facilities for staff, patients and visitors. Heidelberg is fitted
with the latest type Otis lifts including 5 High Speed Bed
Passenger Elevators, 2 Goods Elevators and 7 Service Lifts,
which ensure perfectly smooth starting and stopping and level
stops at all times.
HEIDELBERG MILITARY HOSPITAL,
Melbourne, Victoria.
• Architects: Leighton
Irwin & Company.
• Builder: E. A. Watts.
H
~, ■
9M
m :.
I £B*;
'***; K i
Lii J*
;■- .; .■:•■
1
L-.. , ajigEl
&»&&& fsf ?M g « '>s? •■ .
J||||i H P m&M |||iL *
»»*& m |||| m < ; y\ s ft®
ijn i i
WZZi.
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
than one fruitless and eggless
morning searching the vacant
block. Tolerance curdled within
Dad.
“Knock their haids off fT
Easter,” he rumbled at Gran one
breakfast-time. “Eatin’ more
than their shair, and devil an
egg! ”
On Easter Thursday Gran
smugly served him a boiled
duck-egg for breakfast, and
Darby and Joan were reprieved.
In the two years before they
finally tried him too far Dad
threatened to have them roasted
a dozen times, and each time, as
though some occult warning had
put them wise, an egg would save
their bacon and their parsons’
noses from the baking-dish.
Eventually there came a New
Year when they perished in one
of Gran’s traditional feedings of
the five thousand relatives who
used to descend on us from the
wheatbelt for holidays.
It was Mum Muscovy and her
comedy duo of ducklings who
provided most incident. If those
two ducklings were from the
same brood, then one was either
premature or a case of poor post-
natal feeding. When he was still
a downy, plaintive infant, his
brother stood several inches
taller and grew his first white
quills. In the first days of our
acquaintance with them Lex and
I delighted in chasing the
Muscovy family, for the sheer
hell of watching them waddle.
Unfailingly they formed an
Indian file, Mum leading, fol-
lowed by Davey, with Little Eric
in rear, and fled before us like
the three birds in those sets of
graduated wall-vases.
In the school holidays when
we ran out of games we’d visit
the fowl-run and chase the
Muscovies until Gran screeched
at us to stop. One day I was
indulging in this sadistic exercise
alone when Little Eric suddenly
spun in his tracks and dropped
dead. Doubtless he had athlete’s
heart by then, and would never
have made old duck-hones, but
I was frantic with remorse.
This state of mind was not
improved by the outsize talking-
to I had from both Gran and
Dad, who both seemed to fear
they were harboring a Lizzie
Borden in the family. Lex hung
about, choking back giggles of
relief because it was only good
luck that she hadn’t been a joint-
murderess. The girl next-door
and I gave Little Eric a grand
full-dress burial under the apple-
tree, and Lex wasn’t allowed to
attend as a mark of disapproval.
MUM MUSCOVY and her
remaining son went their
ways. We left them severely
alone thereafter, but Dad was
watching Davey mature apace
into the makings of a magnificent
Christmas dinner. Because she
realised that a hot, sandy fowl-
run wasn’t an ideal place for
ducks, he met no opposition
from Gran for once, and
together they often made
estimates of Davey’s dressed
weight, come Christmas Eve.
Early in December Dad caught
him, and consternation dragged
his red eyebrows down and
together.
“No good killin’ him, Mum.
He’s nothing but feathers. Here,
feel!”
Gran weighed Davey in her
hands. More consternation.
“Not a pick av flesh on the
bird! Can’t understand it,
George, an’ him such a foine-
lookin’ drake!”
Dad couldn’t understand,
either; but he was determined
to find out what wasting disease
kept Davey underweight beneath
the padded shoulders of that
handsome white feather-coat.
Davey submitted to a complete
physical check-up. He had no
stick-fast, no ticks, and seemed
perfectly healthy even if he was
a bag of bones. Dad was ready
to admit himself baffled when
he sighted Davey’s webbed feet.
Their upper surface was a showy,
healthy yellow, but the soles
were a mass of grey corns and
calluses, as big and as hard as
peas. He prodded one tenta-
tively, and Davey flapped and
gave heart-rending quacks which
meant “Me feet are killing me! ”
“Ah’ll be damned! ” said Dad.
“Naw wonder he’s aye settin’ i’
the shade and niver walkin’
aboot wi’ the ither one. The
heat of the sand has bleestered
him. It’s underminin’ he’s
health.”
Off he went to the toolshed,
Davey clamped under one arm.
Goggle-eyed, Lex and I followed
them and watched what must be
the only chiropody ever per-
formed on a duck. We saw our
old enemy, the blue castor-oil
bottle, brought down and the oil
gently massaged into Davey’s
corns. We saw Dad’s first futile
attempts to pare them away with
nail-scissors. But the oil needed
time to take effect.
We were sent for a pair of our
short socks. With string
bowyangs these were tied on
Davey’s oil-soaked dogs, to
protect him against further
scorching from the hot sand
until the oil did its work. Thank-
fully, and pausing only now and
then to try to waggle a sock off,
Davey returned to the fowlyard.
The jest of the inmates, includ-
ing his mother, took one
horrified look and retreated
en masse to the vacant block,
leaving Davey to lord it over
the deserted run. For days after
none of them would go near
him. Even his appearance at
the feed-dishes sent them scat-
tering away.
The next Saturday Dad got
to work with nail-scissors and
pruning - knife and removal-
operations were on. For many
Saturdays thereafter they con-
tinued. Davey would be
pedicured, , outfitted with a pair
of Lex’s socks and returned like
a white-hessianed hussar amongst
the civilian population of the
run. At the end of the treatment
his webbed feet were like smooth
pigskin, top and bottom, and his
weight doubled. Whenever Dad
went into the fowlyard, Davey
would gambol up and nibble at
his trouser-cuffs' like a faithful
dog. Christmas came and went,
with Davey’s white spats protect-
ing him like an amulet from
Gran’s tomahawk.
By Easter he was a giant; and
Gran slew him in triumph for
presentation with red-currant
jelly on Easter Sunday. Dad
had been out of town on the
execution-date, and was squaring
up innocently to some cuts off
Davey’s breast when Gran said
from her perch at the head of
the table:
“What d’ ye think of yere
duck that had corns?”
Hollywood has not yet
shown us Dr. Kildare con-
fronted with a meal of flesh from
a favorite patient. It will be a
scene of rare pathos. Dad’s
jawbone tensed and buttons of
perspiration suddenly dotted his
temples. His throat cleared very
hard and his voice was like some-
body else imitating him.
“Arr —I meant to tell ye,
Mum. Me stomach’s a bit out of
sorts. I’ll just have a cupper tea,
thanks. He —he cut well, didn’t
he?”
A blanket of mourning
descended on the table. The
family seemed to lose its appetite
collectively. The chairs were all
shoved back and the table
deserted in half the usual Sunday
dinner-time.
Later Lex and I came upon
Dad in the fowlyard, thought-
fully scratching the black, head
of Mum Muscovy and looking
miles away at nothing special, his
Celtic eyes wide and fey. That
week he bought a dozen
incubator ducklings, which he
cosseted to duckhood, but none
ever replaced Davey in his affec-
tions, and his voice was never
raised again against Gran’s few
fowls.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Nome and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is unaertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany, MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
E.8.D.: Don’t know where you
could place them, unless with some
daily that gets an attack of poetry on
Saturdays... .R.M.: Not a bad eagle,
but he doesn’t fly to any new place.
T.L.: Phantom coach pleasing
and rather pedestrian 8.C.: Slight.
F.H.F.: Room here for four
lines:
Along the smoky streets of Glebe
And around near Ultimo
I can hear so many sounds
Honking horns and a bottle-oh.
.... R.C.: There might be a joke-
block in your “Men at Work” notion
if you send it in to the Art Editor;
as a poem it’s idle L.E.A.W.:
Afraid Cambridge is off our Antipo-
dean beat; though it was pleasing to
learn that Byron kept a lion at Trinity
because “domestic” pets were banned.
' C.Q.: The end of your story
called for hollow ironic laughter, but
in our effort to oblige we detected a
fake note M.E.J.: Your “Chal-
lenge to Democracy” has not been
accepted H.W.; So thin we didn’t
recognise you F.L.C.: Not quite
our kind G.F.S.: Much too amaz-
ing J.M.: Though the dead dog
has been deodorised, we still don’t
want to have him round E. 8.:
Tillivalli I. W .M.: Y our seven
stories are very frank and very much
in the contemporary style of think-
ing; but either they are for a more
“True Confessional” style of paper
than this, which seems more prob-
able, or they need tempering with
reserve and irony; they leave the
impression that you would rather give
the reader a slick shock than get your
people right S.L.: If, as seems
probable, it’s a satire, it would.prob-
ably go Better with the mask off, and
re-set in Australia; but as an Indian
parable the long introduction spoils
it; if you were to rewrite it again
about five times, taking the introduc-
tion into the story, and keeping it
short or shorter, and getting the
absolute smoothness that is necessary
to such things, it might go very well.
J.P.: A short piece of verse
written on your way back to Australia
after a trip abroad —well, it’s no use
advising you to take a sea-voyage.,..
E.N.S.: No sting in “Bluebottles.”
... .Scissors: You need sharpening.
... .8.J.P,: Both lightweights.


ABORIGINALITIES
w
"Not only is there bottled beer on at the pub , but they’re demanding
disappearance money!”
seems m me some birds take their bath
m water, some in dust. I’ve never seen
a domestic fowl have a wet bath on
purpose or an English blackbird a dry
one. Most birds do both. Is this act of
a bird cleaning itself in dirt rightly
described as a bath,” and, if so, have we
the laugh on the schoolie?
ce _ * T * _ * _ * ,
._ / erende L* : Between Caboolture
(Q.) and Eeachmere is a picturesque tidal
creek which, for as long as any local
can remember, has rejoiced in a name
which commemorated a long-departed
local abo. chief, King Johnnie. But the
Main Roads Board, carrying formality
to the point of bureaucratic absurdity,
has robbed the dusky king’s stamping-
ground of its significance by
labelling the bush stream
“King John Creek,” thus (to
the uninitiated traveller)
unwittingly connecting this
remote waterway with the
crown-jewel-losing English
monarch.
* * *
“Chink”: So the little
gibber-bird has gained,
though the medium of
Nancy Cato (B. 25/6/’52),
a passing reference in verse.
This was scarcely to be ex-
pected in the case of what
used to be termed the desert
chat, a recluse that is con-
tent to pick up a living on
gibber plains in the driest
parts of the interior. In
point of fact, the gibber-
bird avoids humanity with
such enthusiasm that it did
not become known until
1910 —and thus it is one of
the “newest” of Australia’s
avifauna. The discoverer
was the Rev. J. R. B. Love,
and so the Adelaide bird-
man Edwin Ashby named
the species Epthianura
lovensis. In a later classifi-
cation the queer little bird
was placed in a group of its own and
renamed Ashbyia lovensis, thereby be-
coming one of the few species to possess,
scientifically, two proper names. Possibly
there was a temptation to give it, in the
vernacular, the name of Love-bird, with
a capital L. Anyway, gibber-bird suits
the case quite well.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Apropos of that
present-day brig from the Maidive
Islands (B. 25/6/’52), there are more
commercial sailing-vessels about the
world than might be thought. At
Port Said recently I watched 14 old-
world schooners unloading. Off Crete
we passed a long, rakish, white brigantine
which might have passed for Bully
Hayes’s Leander; then steaming down
the east coast of Spain all one day we
came on dozens of sailing craft, from
ketches to barquentines. At Copenhagen
there was the Danish full-rigged training-
ship Danmark; while Norway’s ports,
especially on the Baltic side, and those of
Sweden were full of small sailers, mostly
loaded with timber from outports. In
Gothenburg I learnt that the four-masted
square-rigged barque Viking—formerly
one of Erikson’s best-known Australian
grain-ships—was in port. One night I
bribed my way on board, then I walked
back along the wharf to look her over
It was just as though time had stood still,
All the 18 yards were beautifully trimmed,
the wind was gently humming through
the mass of rigging, and what a sight
she looked!
“Wippegong”: Am not questioning the
legend of Myee the Moth (B. 2/7/’52),
but is “Byram” quite sure that “the long
cave” is on the heights of Mount
Kosciusko? I found the bogong moths,
great grey shawls of them, in the basalt
clefts on Mount Jagungal—the Big
Bogong—about 30 miles further north.
This is the mountain whose rocky peak
really “points to the stars”; from
O’Keefe’s hut at the northern foot of it
you follow the track that winds up
through the wind-pressed snowgums and
“We're after king-prawns.”
comes out on the eastern spur, and from
there your mountain pony will take you
to the trig, sight. Jagungal, 6700 ft., stands
clear of anything approaching its size
and is therefore a much more imposing
sight than Kosci, which is merely the
highest of a number of near-by humps;
and the taller peak, being granite to the
top, has no great fissures like those on the
basaltic summit of Jagungal. Of course,
“B.” could easily know the heights of
Kosciusko in much greater detail than
I do, but I don’t think he’d know them
better than my old acquaintance Kelly
the Crow, who comes each summer to
feast on the moths in much the same
way as tribes of much the same color
came in years gone by. Climbing the
Big Bogong you disturb a swarm of crows
that set you wondering if half the Here-
fords from the snow-leases have staggered
up to the top to die; but they’re only
after the moths, and the musty carpet of
crushed wings around the bottoms of
the long caves testifies to the gorging that
goes on. They drift out over the gullies
or hide among the rocks till you go, then
crowd straight back ; but on Kosciusko
itself the only crow you see is an odd
drifter, sharing the little lively grass-
hoppers with the few kestrels and ground-
larks that brave the westerlies where the
Snowy River is born.
•jff «^»
“Pitt St.”: Sydney Royal Agricultural
Society is out with a ’teen-age woodchop-
ping contest for next year’s show —a
world junior log-chop for lads between
15 and 18. The R.A.S. has probably been
inspired to show the crowds that, despite
what recruiting officials, parsons and
others say, there are still a few youths
about with the necessary strength and
skill to make the chips fly. And don’t
run away with the idea that the winner
will probably be a 6ft, 14st. young
giant with a chest like a railway-engine.
It’s quite on the cards that he’ll look like
a slightly oversized jockey. However, it’ll
be refreshing to see the contest; some
of these alleged world-champion wood-
choppers are getting a little moth-eaten.
* ' *
“Historical Bloque”: Is it certain that
Tasmania’s Reverend Bobbie Knopwood
coined the term “bushranger” (B.
18/6/’52)? “The majority of runaways,”
says the authoritative Geo. E. Boxall in
his Story of the Australian Bushrangers,
“went into the bush and not into the
towns and the Sydney ‘Gazette’ and the
Hobart Town ‘Gazette’ in early times
contain numerous proclamations by the
various Governors calling upon all well-
disposed persons to assist the military in
capturing runaways.” In both publica-
tions were columns of the names and
descriptions of persons “variously
described as ‘absconders,’ ‘absentees,’
‘bolters’ or ‘bushrangers.’ In these the
term ‘bushranger’ appeared most fre-
quently in New South Wales, whilst
‘bolter’ was the more popular in Van
Diemen’s Land.” The Rev. Bobbie
Knopwood conducted the first religious
service in Van Diemen’s Land, but we
know from his diary that his time was
taken up more in discharging his duties
as a magistrate than as a clergyman;
therefore, if he coined the term “bush-
ranger,” why should the term “bolter,”
as Boxall states, be more popular in Van
Diemen’s Land?
* * * *
“The Pirate”: The theory that Tas-
manian abos were not fish-eaters (B.
2/7/’52) should be knocked on the head.
Not only did these blacks relish grilled
trumpeter and Cray but they apparently
were also canoe-men. This is borne out
by a find on desolate, inhospitable Maat-
suyker, a two-mile-long, 900 ft.-high rock-
like island where there is today the
southernmost lighthouse and habitation
in the Commonwealth. Three years ago
lightkeepers and departmental mainten-
ance men found abo. bones there beside
a blacks’ midden full of fish-bones.
Middens are common on the place, hidden
among the manuka scrub in the gullies.
The island, beachless and harborless, lies
seven miles off Tasmania’s s.-w. coast and
four times that distance by sea from
settlement. Maatsuyker is only one
of several islands thereabouts which are
only very occasionally visited by the more
venturesome Tassie fishermen. Fish
abound there and, it now appears, seem
to have attracted the Tassie abos also.
* * *
“Aperist” on a communication system:
I notice that certain savants consider
‘ they have solved the secret of how bees com-
municate inside the hive. When a scout-bee
comes back from a foraging flight with news
of the finding of fresh honey-blossoms it is
said to do a sort of dance upon the combs,
this having a special meaning which the other
bees interpret. Further investigation has
developed the idea that the returned bee may
do special sorts of dances, each having a
different meaning, such as new find quite near,
or far away, or on wattle, or banksia, etc.
Never having studied bees through a glass-
walled hive I can neither disprove nor approve,
but years of beekeeping, with a naturalist’s
interest in the insects, has led me to the idea
that bees communicate telepathically, that the
hjve is governed, each one of its inmates directed
to its task, by a hive mind which is shared
by the whole of the hive. From the moment
a bee emerges from its birth-cell it knows its
task, its first job being to turn and clean out
the cell from which it has just emerged. Its
next is to gather, with other members of the
day’s hatching, over the nearly-ripe brood-cells,
as a sort of blanket if the day be cold, as a
regiment of fanners should it be hot: fanning
with the wings creates air-currents which keep
the already-warm brood-combs from softening
dangerously. Finished with this after a couple
of days, fresher hatchings taking over, the young
bee becomes a nurse, helping with the feeding
of grubs hatched from the eggs in still-open
cells. Proceeding onwards after a few more
days, it takes pollen and honey from the
incoming field-bees, storing same in food-cells.
Next it develops into a wax-maker, using this
product to build fresh combs. It next becomes
a hive-guard, a doorkeeper, or one of those
bees which may be seen any hot day busy on
the landing-board fanning furiously, driving
cooling air into the hive entrance Finally it
becomes a field-bee, flying in quest of pollen
and honey. All these services the young bee
performs, each in its turn, by the direction of
the hive-mind. Telepathy? Thought transfer-
ence? Well, why not? All bees in a hive, with
the exception of the queen, might be called
“twin.” All are born of the same mother and
the same father. Even between human twins
certain telepathic communication has been
noted, though man lost that faculty when he
developed speech. With bees, every mind in
the hive having been formed in the one mould,
thought-processes must be so much alike as to
constitute a common mass mind, which governs
the hive and automatically instructs the new-
born bee where and how to begin its tasks.
To support this idea of telepathy, study a
school of young fish, which, having parents in
common, are all “twin.” Fear is the thought
most readily communicated; let sometfiing
alarm the leaders of a school, and instantly, as
one fish, the school will turn, the rear ranks
in the one split-second with the front. The
fish mind is far below that of the bee, but it
obviously is endowed with some power of
telepathy.
SONG FOR HARRY.
Were we too young to guess the truth, my
brother?
Remembering now, it seems to me that gold
Was scattered over all our work together
And the vein grows richer as we grow old.
With skin-taut sinewy backs we swung our
shovels,
Our pickheads gleamed like silver in the sands,
Our prospect-shafts were ladders on the gutter,
While we held the fine gold in our two hands.
The hillside’s silent now where rang our
hammers,
The river-flats are smoothed by patient rains.
The creek sings quietly of long-gone summers,
And there’s a shining outcrop in my veins.
Rich laughter, golden bodies, golden singing,
The hush of sundown and the hint of snow,
The Midas-touch of morning on the ridges,
And the water chiming on the rock below.
We were too young to see it then, my brother.
But I’m remembering (and lam older),
Perhaps the mother-lode we sought together
I carry, wrapped in memory, on my shoulder.
ŵ
W. N. SCOTT.


DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
m
mm
m
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOB!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look. Bill’s
a credit to his Company.' Your shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked 1,251
men to try it . . . 81% reported “Beards easier to
cut” . . . 76% said “Less razor pull” . . . 71% said
“Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
w
The shaving cream
. o/ successful men
BANKERS • /EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWVERS
psa/iai
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
A new shipment..
OF THE FAMOUS SWISS
magnificent
£l2/17/6
With
Leather
Band
wm
m
Stainless
Steel Band
19/6 extra
A streamlined and accurate timekeeper built to comply
with the American Government specifications. In a
handsome imported stainless case, it features WATER-
PROOF . . . INCABLOC SHOCKPROOF . . . NON-
MAGNETIC . . . HEAT AND COLD RESISTANT . . .
UNBREAKABLE CRYSTAL ... 17 JEWEL SWISS
LEVER MOVEMENT . . . SWEEP SECOND HAND . . .
Written Guarantee.
MAIL
ORDERS
u oh nil
u
o
al4 i
Mail- Order Specialists
REGISTERED
POST PBEE
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING ST„ SYDNEY
Please forward by registered mail , a Felca “Magnificent”
for which I enclose
NAME
ADDRESS BtiL
“Mat’s Mate”; Undowangie and Wal-
pebool were in the throes of the last
quarter of the football match, Undo, four
points in front and Mat battling like a
Trojan in the Walpe. ruck, me running
rover to him. He got the knockout from
a centre boundary throw-in, straight to
my hands and I sunk the boot, driving
the ball to our forwards. Our little goal-
sneak raced forward to take it, but just
about then a pair of horses in a buggy
bolted on to the ground, followed by
most of the crowd, all the local dogs and
small boys, two policemen and the Indian
hawker who owned the buggy. Ball,
players and umpire got lost in the general
mix-up, and, dancing round on the out-
skirts eagerly looking for the ball, I
came across Mat leaning soberly on the
boundary-line. “Turn it up, mate,” he
said sourly. “We could ha’ stoushed their
infantry, but we got no chance against
their flamin’ cavalry.”
* * * *
“Atrichornis”; Reference to the
Lamington Plateau of Queensland by
“Columba” (B, 4/6/’52) as the “last
retreat” of the rufous scrub-bird is an
overstatement of a case that might be
worse than it is. The remarkable little
creature, which on a “weight-for-voice”
basis utters the most powerful and most
ventriloquial of all Australian bird-calls,
may be most frequently heard in the
National Park of the McPherson Range,
but it extends down through the Dorrigo
highlands to as far as the Chichester
River, near Barrington Tops (N.S.W.).
At one time it must have extended right
around, or perhaps right across, the
southern portion of the continent, for a
near relative —the only other member of
the ancient group—exists in the south-
western corner of W.A. “Exists” in the
case of the western bird is used with reser-
vations, the drab fact being that this
species has not been definitely recorded
for about 60 years. Incidentally, it is
the only Australian bird to be com-
memorated by a memorial —ornitho-
logists and historians erected in 1948 a
plaque and tablet in the area near Drakes-
brook (W.A.), where the species was dis-
covered in 1842 by the pioneering bird-
man John Gilbert.
r * * O
“Darwinite”: That drift by lan Fair-
weather from Darwin to Timor aroused
little interest in the N.T. for the simple
reason that for hundreds of years Malay
proas drifted down to the territory pearl-
beds and beche-de-mer pools, drifting
back again when the winds changed and
the south-easters could blow them home
again. If you leave our northern coasts
when the sou’-easters are blowing you
must cast-up at Timor or one of the
adjacent islands ; if you leave Timor when
the nor’-westers blow, you finish up on the
North Australian coast somewhere be-
tween the Gulf and Wyndham, according
to the strength of the westward drift of
the current. More than 20 years ago two
16-year-old white Darwin lads travelled
from Melville Island to Darwin in a
blackfellow’s dugout canoe simply by
following the advice of the abos and
trusting to wind and tide. That meant
traversing 50 miles of open ocean before
reaching a safe harbor.
“Horseless Horseman”: “Betcha” (B.
11/6/’52) is right. The horses on the
N.Q. stations of other years —one I was
on 25 years ago had 2000 of ’em —are a
breed that has passed on. Those neddies,
off a diet of grass, would carry us
musterers 20 to 25 miles to a paddock,
at least that distance around the enclosure
and the same home. And there was no
sparing your horse, either. You had to
gallop after, and head, woollies that
hadn’t seen a human for months. Coming
home we would, contrary to regulations,
finish the day with a race: a tin of tobacco
in and the winner take the lot. You
rode the one mount only three days in
a week. Every Monday and Tuesday
the horseyard staged a rodeo show, up-
wards of 40 men riding buckjumpers, half
of them going off all ways. One morning
there, after biting the dust four times, I
sat down winded, sick, bruised and re-
flecting: “To think I used to catch a
tram to work and I chose this?” Then
up came the overseer roaring: “Come on
there, McWhosethis! You’re with No. 1
mustering party. They’ve gone. What?
Can’t manage your horse!” Last week
a stationowner from up that way told me
they can’t work that country properly
now. They can’t gel a man to ride a
lively horse there, not for £2O a week,
notwithstanding that they gave up breed-
ing rough horses years ago.
“Herbert Dawson” says his piece on
bush horses:
I too, am certain that the Man from Snowy
River wouldn’t have had a chance on a mode
back (B. 25 /6/ ’52), but for quite different
reasons from those mentioned by “Betcha and
“Gulliver.” Firstly, the Banjo—good horseman
and bushman as he undoubtedly was—in writing
his famous ballad was first of all a poet, and
was simply exercising poetic hcencetothefull.
Else he would never have acclaimed the great
ness of the horse and rider in sach terms as .
“His hardy mountain-pony could hardly raise
a trot He was blood from hip to shoulder
from the spur.” Though his “courage was
still “fiery hot,” he was a poor, knocked-up
little horse, as well he might be. Any decent
station-manager would have sacked the ma
who so cruelly and incompetently rode a horse,
assuming he was in the station’s emplo'y, and
nobody with greater dispatch than the Banjo
himself. No such spur-happy, unbalanced ass
could have single-handed run in mountain-
brumbies if he was mounted on the best horse
that was ever foaled. And for that reason,
particularly, I have always felt that Paterson’s
best-known and -acclaimed poem is consider-
ably short of his best. “Blood from hip to
shoulder”! The only mount for such a rider
should be a clotheshorse or a milking-stool.
While admitting that throughout Australia the
stockhorse averages in quality a standard
generally below that of 50 or 60 years ago, I
can’t admit there are not —in Queensland, at
any rate —a moderate percentage of horses as
good as ever were produced. One cannot take
as evidence a horse which lived only in a poem
written with all the exaggeration common to,
and, indeed, necessary to, the success of bush-
ballads. The same argument applies to the
riders. Nor, I regret, can I, for one, take as
evidence the amazing tearing-up of the land-
scape for “weeks on end” by super-horses,
each carrying what adds up to approximately
two hundredweight, twelve hours a day, “mostly
in heavy red sandhills, with plenty of one- or
two-mile bursts at full gallop.” Allah give me
strength! What in the name of fantasy were
these jokers chasing? Jet planes? As for
having to ride out 10 or 12 miles to muster
their horses, race after them over 40 miles
and chase them home —still at the gallop-
heaven knows what distance, it sounds like a
mad-hatter’s show. Horses of the calibre
mentioned, working, say, a fortnight on end
each, and riders of like calibre, with fifteen men,
would mean 30 horses in a 700- or 800-acre
paddock right against the homestead, with the
breeders and spellers further out. Then every-
one could race over hundreds of thousands of
miles a year through the red sand and what-
have-you and achieve what? —incredulity!
* * * *
“Yacko”; When he discovered Kan-
garoo Island (S.A.) in March, 1802,
Flinders labelled it for epicurean reasons.
The following year, when circumnavi-
gating and charting the island, Baudin,
commodore of the French scientific ex-
pedition, renamed it Deeres after the
French Minister of Marine, A few
months later, having gained information
from the French navigators, American
sealers referred to the quiet haven beyond
the irascible Governor King’s jurisdiction
as Border’s, a corruption of Baudin.
Some authorities think that the derivation
of Cape Borda, on the nor’-west coast of
the island, springs from this source, but it
is more probable that it perpetuated the
name of the mathematician who de-
veloped the French metric system. Borda
died in 1799, just prior to the departure
of the French expedition from Le Havre.
Till 1913 the training-ships of the French
naval school bore his name.
* * * *
“Eyenan”: There was a length of heavy
dog-chain dragging from the rear-axle
when the Woolbaleses’ latest model super-
sedan pulled up at the local store, and
I drew his attention to it, thinking it was
there by accident. “Aw, Mum hung it
there,” he told me. “She and the tyke
both get car-sick and somebody told her
that draggin’ a chain helps to counteract
it.” “Did it work?” I asked. “Well,”
he drawled, “I think the dog travels a
bit better, but it hasn’t made much differ-
ence to Mum.”
* * * *
“Apple Isle”: I thought I had met just
about every kind of firemaker, from the
miser who crouches over his holed kero.-
tin and feeds it cautiously with sticks, to
the one who piles huge logs on until
the varnish is
scorched off
all furniture
within 10ft.
and everyone
else is driven
down to the
other end of
the room to
escape being
fried. Then
in the Tasmanian hinterland I met
a family—two women and nine men —not
one of whom would chop a stick of wood,
though the men were all big, husky
fellows. And so the range roared and
glowed with the firebox-doors wide open
to allow the row of 6ft. saplings to jut
into the kitchen.
SMOKE.
Fie on him! Fie on him!
Who dwells below horizon’s rim
And puffs gargantuan pipe away
And blows such clouds the livelong day
That he hides the blue and covers the sky
With huge white tufts wind-streaming by.
N.S.W.
R. J. LOUDON.


ŵ
!. 1 il I ill il p «.i ."tl.i!
MJiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiihi
mm
liitiiin
■“ilium
•i ’
a Trustee
to safeguard your Estat
Only an experienced person can hope to
contend with the complicated problems
and other aspects of a Will and the
administration of an Estate. During your
lifetime, and afterwards, your obligations
to your family or other beneficiaries can
be honoured only by your care now.
The Permanent Trustee Company offers
you the sage counsel of over sixty years’
experience as Executors and Trustees;
offers you the stability and protection of
over £1,000,000 in uncalled capital and
assets.
Avoid unnecessary risks; enjoy peace of
mind and ensure security of your
interests now and always. Appoint the
Permanent Trustee Company as your
Executor and Trustee.
For full details, call in and interview one
of our Executive Officers in confidence
and without obligation: or write for our
free booklet— 1 Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H: Way, Vice-Chairman.
G. Moncrieff Barron,O.BE.,M.B.Ch.M.,F.R.A.C.S-
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
G. B. Kater.
Manager : N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary : P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COIHPAIVY OF N.S.W. MMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CLIMAX NEARS IN KOREA.
U.N.O. Secretary - General
Trygve Lie “guesses” that an
armistice will be signed in
Korea “at the end of this
month or early in August.”
He should know. At least he
should have a better idea than
the guessers who tipped last
March that it would be all over
before May.
One way or the other, there
is agreement that the deadlock
and dickering must soon end-
either in the predicted armistice
or in what could hardly help de-
veloping into general war.
British and American authori-
ties are quoted as optimistic,
their optimism based on a be-
lief that Moscow will not risk
a world war, which could easily
develop from a full-scale Com-
munist offensive in Korea. Lon-
don “Economist” quotes U.N.O.
Commander-in-Chief General
Mark Clark’s stated opinion
that if there is such an offensive
the U.N.O. forces should react
“with no holds barred.”
It Would Spread
That, in the “Economist’s”
view, “implies at least action
against Chinese air-bases in
Manchuria, and perhaps also
against the coastline of China
from Shantung southward as a
means of diverting and dispers-
ing Chinese military and air
power. If battle is joined on a
large scale the demand in
America for such a widened
strategy must be expected to be
stronger than ever before.”
In further comment the
“Economist” says that if the
Communists “seek again the
arbitrament of arms they will
thereby issue a challenge to war
without the limitations which
Allied self-restraint has so far
imposed.”
Washington correspondents of
New York “Herald Tribune”
also report that if there is
a full-scale Communist offen-
sive “limiting the war will be-
come all but impossible.” The
“Herald Tribune” itself com-
ments that Russia “must know
that a renewal of full-scale
fighting would hardly be con-
fined to the peninsula” of
Korea.
U.S.-British Differences
One thing obviously needed
in advance of any full-scale war-
fare is a better understanding
among the U.N.O. partners. As
cables have indicated, the general
British outlook on Korea has
been very different from the
American.
Something of the British feel-
ing possibly stems from resent-
ment of American non - co-
operation, and even interference,
in such places as Persia, Egypt
and now the Sudan. Also non-
co-operation by America was the
main complaint in the House of
Commons debate on the
“border” bombing in Korea.
Altogether, the strain put
by Korea on U.S.-British
relationship had reached the
point where David Lawrence, a
friendly American commentator,
lately visiting Britain, reported in
New York “Herald Tribune”
that he found there “little
thought given to the fact that
500.000 American boys have
faced the firing-line in the Far
East, that more than 100,000 of
them have been killed or
wounded, and that the draft is
still calling between 30,000 and
40.000 American boys every
month.”
American Sacrifices
“There is,” Lawrence also
wrote, “a total unawareness
here [in Britain] of the motivat-
ing influences which have caused
the American people to feel so
deeply about the sacrifices made
by American troops in Korea.
“To the British reader, Korea
is just an incident. It is even
less than a ‘police action’ in the
sense that other troubles in the
world are considered to be far
more important. The British are
more concerned over what has
happened in Malaya and over
the danger-spots in Persia, Egypt
and North Africa.
“When reminded of the sacri-
fices being made by Americans
in the Far East, there is, of
course, deep sympathy and
expressions of admiration for the
bravery of our [U.S.] troops. But
at the same time there is a
tendency to argue that a ‘limited
war’ is all that can be expected,
no matter what course the truce
talks take.
“If Britons are asked why
intervention in Korea was
approved in the first place, when
the risks of a large-scale war
were even greater then than they
are today, there is no clear
answer given except that it was
important to ‘halt aggression.’
Yet when it is pointed out that
aggression hasn’t really been
halted, the reply usually is made
that it was a good attempt
anyway.”
Corns the Gainers
The present and apparently
growing American conviction
seems to be that Britain would
like to see the U.N.O. side get
out of Korea at any cost — a
conviction strengthened by
Attlee’s urging that the country
which unceremoniously hoofed
Britain’s considerable business
interests off its premises, and is
unquestionably fighting against
the side Britain is on in Korea,
should be appeased with a seat
on the U.N.O. so-called Security
Council.
At the same time the
American view of Korea seems
to be that the Communists are
the gainers as the war is now
being conducted. In line,with
this view, “U.S. News and World
Report” makes a few com-
parisons showing how the war
looks to the Communist side :
(1) Twenty per cent, of U.S.
power is tied down 7000 miles
from home. No Russian military
power is tied down.
(2) U.S. wants to concentrate
power in Europe. Asia, as a
consequence, is the best, most
promising, battleground.
(3) War in Korea is a five- to
10-billion-dollar drain on U.S.
per year. Korean war is a negli-
gible drain on Communists.
(4) U.S., unable to win against
weak Communist forces, appears
weak to people in Asia. Com-
munists, standing successfully
against the West, gain immense
prestige through Asia.
The most important considera-
tion is that Korea has served to
“stir dissension among the Wes-
tern partners.”
As to this, however, a New
York “Herald Tribune” com-
ment could turn out right if the
armistice were a washout:
“It would be a mistake for
Russia to assume that the alli-
Baltimore ( U.S.A .) “Sun.”
SO FAR, SO GOOD.
ance standing guard in this area
is less united in purpose than
the coalition of Powers in
Europe. Whatever differences
may have arisen in regard to
strategy, they would disappear
in the face of a concerted, sur-
prise offensive by the Com-
munist forces.”
As "Ike" Sees Things.
Eisenhower statements con-
veying some idea of the kind of
President he would be have
already been given here. “Ike”
has also said:
On individual effort. —“Indi-
vidual freedom can be preserved
by one means only—individual
responsibility, individually exer-
cised.”
N.A.T.O. —He said he would
not have been in it if he had the
slightest suspicion that there
was any aggressive intent on the
part of any single nation con-
nected with it, adding: “This is
an organisation for peace and
for security to preserve the cul-
ture, the history, the great
values that free people have
accumulated through the process
of civilisation through the cen-
turies —nothing more.”
A united Europe. —“In my
opinion, Europe must unite, far
more closely (Western Europe,
I am talking about) than it is
now, or else there is no long-
term settlement to all our diffi-
culties.”
Economic security. “You
know, the first task in security
is to be able to make a living.
And Western Europe has to
have economic and political
arrangements that will allow it,
in the long run, to make a liv-
ing—or we are fighting a tough
battle.”
The West’s progress so far. —
“Here [among N.A.T.O.
nations] you have such things
as common understanding of
the world situation, a common
set of values —at least to the ex-
tent that we put human freedom
at the very top of all of them.
These things are developing—
men are beginning to understand
they can do it. Now they have
also made material progress
toward that line.”
War steadiers. —“It seems to
me that a deliberate movement
towards a global war would be
based on one or two assumptions
—first, that they [Moscow and
co.] could win instantly ; second,
that they would certainly win
a global war. They cannot do
that until they have a tremen-
dous stockpile sufficient to over-
whelm the capacity of the free
world.”
The West’s objective. —“ The
free world has set for itself a
certain goal. That goal is to
achieve a military equilibrium
in the areas in which we are con-
cerned so that we can progress
without fear, without hysteria,
without particular hesitation to-
ward the accomplishments of
whatever our particular nations
are trying to do in the way of
the social benefits and gains of
all their people. Because that’s
what Governments, are set up
for. Toward obtaining that
equilibrium we have made a
great start. I’m confident that
[it] can be done.”
Danger of misunderstar \lngs.
—“I would list as No. 1 [danger
to the West] the danger of mis-
understanding developing among
the several nations. Each of us
has to make sacrifices, and each
nation is always quite fearful
that other nations do not quite
understand its local critical
problems and therefore are ex-
pecting too much. The United
States has had the great job of
providing material assistance.
Whenever you are providing
material assistance you have to
watch very closely that mis-
understandings do not arise—
not only on your own part
about what you are doing but
on the part of others, fearful of
what they are not doing. Every-
body has got to have a very
clear understanding of the
whole business —that it is a co-
operative effort. That I would
list as the first risk,”
Danger of an “incident." —
“We must never underrate or
overlook the danger that comes
about through incidents unfore-
seen —accidents that have not
been thought out —an incident
that can occur anywhere around
the vast perimeter that we call
the Iron Curtain and which
could have very distressing
effects.”
The “global struggle.” —“The
third great danger is the danger
of thinking of these problems
locally. It’s a global struggle—a
struggle between our freedom
and regimentation. You can
state that proposition any way
you want, but it usually comes
back about that way. So, there-
fore, we get preoccupied in our
own problem. It becomes a very
grave mistake not to remember
that the conflict going on in some
other part of the world is related
not only materially in its effect
on the drain on your resources —
military, economic and financial
—but also in the actual ideo-
logical struggle that goes ahead.”
West’s peaceful purpose. — “I
see once in a while a ‘think’ piece
on the danger of the West grow-
ing rather aggressive as its
strength grows. I mean aggres-
sive in intent. I can’t see where
there’s any possible validity to
such a fear. We’re not even
planning for the kind and size
of force that could be considered
aggressive, could be useful in an
aggressive war.”
No “preventive war." —“I
think that any reasonable man
realises that there is no such
thing as a so-called preventive
war. War is war. And the
desolation of the next war would
be, in my opinion, so great that
the only thing worse for the free
world than winning a war would
be losing it.”
Peace need .— “We must have
peace. There’s just no question
about it.”


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
w
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARKEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRBEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATE RE.
BAKREEE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2y), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
New Fight on
"CHANGE OF LIFE"
By “Medica”—a Delisle Book
7/11 post free
Eec. by Professor Harvey Sutton
Father & Son Welfare Movement,
313 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MARRIAGE:
The Art of
Lasting Happiness
DAVID R. MACE
M.A., B.Sc., Ph.D.
Formerly General Secretary and
Director of the National
Marriage Guidance Council of
Great Britain.
Price 13/3
(P ostage 7d. extra)
Obtainable from
WILLIAM TV AS
558 George Street, SYDNEY
LANGUAGE
A New Literary Journal
Published every two months.
Contributors to No, 2 issue include."
j. p. mckinney
WILXIAM DOBELL
GEOFFREY AEAN MILL.
JUDITH WRIGHT McKINNEY
HARRY HOOTON
WARREN STEWART
VINCENT FERRINI
Subscribe now.
12/- per year, post free.
2/- a single copy (postage 3Jd.).
On Sale at All Leading Bookshops
BOX 5097, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Cheques to be made out to “Language."
“THE SOCIETY OF
SECRETARIES OF
GREAT BRITAIN LTD.”
The Society for Private and
Company Secretaries. Desig-
nation “Qualified Secretary.
Membership by Examination
or Professional Service.
Details from the Secretary,
9 Charles Street, NEWPORT,
MON., ENGLAND.
i
m m
mmmm.
■ -
m
f 0^ ht %sonW
Mack
HOW? WHY?
DON'T KEEP ME
IN THE PARK!
TELL ME WHAT'S
ROCKING OUR
DREAM BOAT 9 >
ŵ
NO,THANKS. DAN.YOU'LL
HAVE TO ASK YOUR
. DENTIST ABOUT...WELL.
BAD
(BREATH!
DENTAL CREAM
CLEANS YOUR BREATH <
> WHILE IT CLEANS YOUR
TEETH AND THE COLGATE <
WAY OF BRUSHINGTEETH
k RIGHT
STOPS
.TOOTH
I DECAY
I BEST!
&
ẁ
ẃ
'SINCE DAN DISCOVERED
COLGATE CARE HE AND ]
r KAY ARE A
DREAM-
i BOAT ■
PAIR!j
<s>
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental
Literature Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating W.th
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Most thoroughly proved
and accepted home
method of oral hygiene
known today.
Yes, and two years'
research showed the
Colgate way stopped
more decay for more
people than ever before
reported in dentifrice
history! No other"
dentifrice offers such
proof the most con-
clusive proof ever re-
ported for a dentifrice
of any type.
USE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
✓ TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH
✓ WHILE YOU CLEAN YOUR TEETH
>/ AND HELP STOP TOOTH }
DECAY BEST
tov
AMERICA’S LARGEST. AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST,
THE WORLD’S LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
Buy the
Big Family
Economy Size
ẅ
S-&
*l%
LnAS'
■
tne name is
(T) c CaUums
the whisky is
Distilled and blended in Scotland
M 9
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Quayle, in temporarily relin-
quishing control in order to act.
The inclusion of “Coriolanus” in
the choice of plays might strike
him as odd, but not quite so
odd as the claim, put out by the
Red men, that, because the mob
is triumphant, it is the greatest
of them all.
And what of the performance
of “Macbeth” within? He might
wonder whether the elaborate
scenery, with its dark insistence
on funereal gloom, was any con-
siderable improvement on the
adaptable stage at the Globe.
He would probably agree
that Antony Hopkins’s music
heightened the drama. He
would, also, after the first
shock, acknowledge that women
are better at women’s parts than
boys, and would most certainly
be roused by the dynamism of
Margaret Leighton’s clearly-
drawn Lady Macbeth. He might
also be roused, but in a different
way, by Ralph Richardson’s
Macbeth and have to be
assuaged from his raving by the
assertion that here is a fine actor
who seems to have both struck
an indifferent patch and to have
failed in his characterisation.
But, most of all, he would
wonder what had happened to
the English language, especially
in the speaking of his Verse. Why
do these fellows, so deep and
mellow in voice, “stand not upon
points,” begin a new sentence
e’er the first be done and then
pause untimely in the middle,
murdering rhythm and sense
alike?
SUNDRY SHOWS
SYDNEY ART.
Sydney art for the week con-
sists of Japanese prints at the
National Gallery, Orban at the
Macquarie and John S. Loxton
at the Grosvenor.
The Japanese prints, with their
usual minor charm, are a most
diverse and interesting collection
loaned by Dr. Eugen Milch.
They are displayed with remark-
ably good taste, accompanied by
flower-arrangements in the
Japanese style by Mrs. E. G.
Waterhouse which are worth see-
ing in themselves. The souvenir
catalogue contains an excellent
cohimentary by Dr. Hedi Spiegel.
Orban, as the Sydney dailies
have noted, has suddenly become
surprisingly cheerful, abandon-
ing his distressed-areas of slum
and his murky flowers struggling
to dim life in the caves of the
Styx for light and airy still-lifes
and patterns of trees which have
a flicker of color and design and
very little else. Most of these
bits of pastel and watercolor are
too slight to be worth exhibiting.
One dark pastel, “At the South
Coast,” suave and deep, is infin-
itely more attractive.
Loxton, at the Grosvenor, is
one of those popular painters of
the picturesque whose best work
would look far better if it were
separated from the second-rate.
His oils run to the saccharine.
He follows too many masters ;
Meldrum and Gruner in oils,
Heysen and Harold Herbert in
watercolor. His watercolors
show the marks of a successful
formula —the broken, detached
bits-of gumleaf to give vitality ;
the red cap or shirt to centralise
almost every scene amidst the
general romantic heightening of
color; the figures of skiers that
sometimes make his snow-scenes
look like travel-posters.
Yet his watercolor snow,
powdery on the ground or misty
as it falls, looks much more like
snow than most artists have
managed to paint it; his trout-
rods, instead of being the usual
clumsy pole, have the proper
delicacy of that noble instru-
ment; “Narooma,” “The Open
Gate,” “Gums and Sunlight”
and “Mountain Stream” are all
watercolors of quality, and
“Stone Bridge, Wales,” where
the feeling seems deeper, is
exceptionally pleasing.
* * * *
Lance Solomon’s exhibition at
Brisbane Moreton Galleries re-
peated the success of his Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries show two
years ago, and, except for two
or three minor pieces, sold right
out.
Folies Bergere Revue.
With a few irritating excep-
tions the female form is gener-
ally more interesting than the
female mind; so it was really
much easier to contemplate the
“Folies Bergere Revue,” which
opened at Sydney Tiv. last week,
than Strindberg’s “Miss Julie,”
which had a brief run at the
St. James Hall and which was
pressed through to its bitter end
by producer Geoffrey Thomas
and players Noella Masson,
Keith Goddard and Patricia
Lithgow.
The “Folies” was vaguely dis-
appointing, though not by any
means in its mounting, dress,
undress and spectacle ; those, in
fact, are often superb, and there’s
a good deal of artistic imagina-
tion gone into many of the set-
tings. Likewise, the near-nudes
set a very pleasant standard, and
what little they leave to the im-
agination is pleasantly adequate.
The automobile number, with
the dancers leaping like spark-
plugs from the engine of a car,
and the “cage tres Parisienne,”
with the beauties wearing tiger-
tails and little else, are the best
of several excellent scenes.
Between all that pulchritude,
however, there are some gaps
which the comedians and others
can’t adequately fill in. A con-
tortionist called Bouna does
some twisting and turning, in-
cluding a cross-legged splits,
which even an octopus might
envy ; and a graceful young lady
named Renita Kramer does one
of those two-in-one dances and,
later, an uncanny imitation of
an ostrich; Norman Vaughan
provides a flicker of humor as
he warms up after a rather flat
start; and the Trio Daresco have
their graceful moments.
But, apart from those, the rest
of the individual acts aren’t really
up to normal Tiv. standard.
Good, down-to-earth vaudeville
humor is the most conspicuous
absentee, and, after a while, in
fact, one longed to hear again
those dulcet tones imploring
someone to “thtrike me lucky,”
or that other indignant voice
begging someone’s “dirty, rotten
pardon.”
Mclnnes Exhibition.
Pictures at the memorial ex-
hibition at Tye’s Gallery in Mel-
bourne, of the work of the late
W. B. Mclnnes, seven times
winner of the Archibald Prize,
include portraits of Drum-major
McClelland, with his pink face
surrounded by the regalia of his
office, C. J. Dennis, one of the
artist’s sincerest efforts, Napier
Waller, the one-armed Digger
painter, the late Sir William
Irvine, impressive in scarlet and
ermine, a big canvas containing
the four sons of the artist, a
family group, and several or
those rather sentimental pictures
of children which always turned
up at a Mclnnes exhibition, in-
cluding “The Truant” and The
Young Sportsman.”
There is also a copy of the
“El Bobo” of Velasquez done
under the terms of the Travelling
Scholarship of the National
Gallery in Melbourne ; and there
are 40 or 50 landscapes.
Mclnnes hated painting por-
traits—at least, so he told the
present writer —and at the height
of his fame would have been
glad not to paint another. He
preferred, he said, to express
himself in little landscapes, but
when he did so his landscapes
were as popular as his portraits
and sold like hot cakes.
Whether in portraiture or land-
scape he was a sound technician,
and, if he lacked the flair of
Lambert or the depth of Long-
staff at his best, he had a certain
solid force which few of today z
competitors for the Archibald
can equal.
Although it was a pity that in
his only Brisbane recital the
young Viennese pianist Paul
Badura-Skoda included but little
classical music, he brought to
his widely-selected programme
of romantic music a superb
quality of playing. An excellent
interpretation of Schumann’s
“Carnaval” was robbed of some
of its verve by an occasional too-
deliberate tempo. His rare and
delicate playing of Ravel’s
strange suite “Gaspard de la
Nuit” was the highlight of the
recital. He was generous with
his encores from Mozart and
Schubert.


cs#j
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
» General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. (London),
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; Thomas B. Heffer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
your Executor uud trustee
The Company, founded in 1878, provides
1. EXPERIENCED ADMINISTRATION: By personal specialising in trust work.
2. CONTINUITY OF MANAGEMENT; Individual Trustees may die but the Company
is a permanent Corporation.
3. CONSTANT AVAILABILITY: The Company is accessible every business day.
4. ECONOMICAL SERVICE; Charges are fixed and moderate.
5. SECURITY: Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,964.
Write or call for free booklet.
m
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,964
TR3A.35
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Genera! Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Pref.
Dec., Profit. 6 p.e. f — ; Ord. > Reserves.
1944. . 274,450 33,696 10 p.c.= 175,000 923,107
From inventory reserve, £203,910 ~ 1,127,017
Loss.
1945.. 68,528 33,696 Nil 1,024,793
From tax reserve, £15,849 .. .. 1,040,642
1946. . 437,529 33,696 Nil 569,417
Profit sale assets, £21,918 .. 591,335
Equity subsid. profits, £3585 .. 594,920
Profit.
1947.. 570,372 33,696 Nil 1,131,596
From inventory reserve, £140,900 .. 1,272,496
Profit sale assets, £2109 .. .. 1,274,605
Equity subsid. profits, £5441 .. 1,280,046
1948.. 681,604 33,696 Nil 1,927,954
G.M.-H. and Subsidiaries.
Sale fixed assets, £2428 .. .. 1,930,382
1949.. 477,159 33,696 Nil 2,373,845
Net loss realisation assets, £83,776 .. 2,340,069
Net equity subsid. profit, £21,390 .. 2,361,459
1950. 2,603,364 33,696 50 p.c.= 875,000 4,056,127
Profit sale assets, £28,989 .. ..4,085,116
Net equity subsid. profit, £10,012 . . 4,095,128
1951. 3,348,023 33,696 SO p.c.= 525,000 6,884,455
This big motor-manufacturing, -assembly
and -distributing organisation is a
happy and successful marriage between
American and Australian interests-
General Motors Corp. (U.S.) owns the
£1,750,000 of ord. capital, or all but a
fraction of it, and the Australian public
the £561,600 of 6 p.c. prefs., issued in
1930 in part-payment for Holden’s
motor-body-building works at Woodville
(S. Aust.).
Central feature of the co.’s post-war
activities is production of the all-
Australian-made Holden car and utility
vehicles—the dollar problem virtually put
the co.’s American franchises (Chevrolet,
Buick, Pontiac, Oldsmobile and Cadillac)
into cold-storage. First units of the new
vehicles came off the production lines
toward the close of 1948, and the latest
accounts are a measure of the success
achieved. Since war ended the co. has
spent over £Bf- million on reconversion
and expansion. Most of the money went
into new plant, equipment and factory
premises for production of Holden
vehicles, and the rest into rounding-out
and balancing non-vehicle productive
facilities, which fall under three main
. headings, namely, automotive parts and
accessories, handled by the National Auto-
motive Service Co., power and industrial
equipment, handled by the Industrial and
Domestic Equipment Co., and the Frigid-
aire division, which turns out commercial
and household refrigerators, etc.
Last term turnover from all sources
increased by £4,362,993 (10.3 p.c.), reach-
ing a record £42,481,745, of which
£35,297,750 (up £2,179,588) was on
account of vehicles and £7,183,995 (up
£2,183,405) non-vehicle products. Vehicle
sales compare as follows over the last
three years:
Number Cars and Trucks.
1949. 1950. 1951.
Holden .. ~ 7,725 20,113 25,177
Vauxhall/Bedford . . 15,785 16,800 14,915
U.S. and Canadian .. 6,433 7,055 5,413
Total .. . . 29,943 43,968 45,505
In 1951 the Holden accounted for
17.3 p.c. of all new car registrations in
Australia as against 14 p.c. and 8.7 p.c.
for the two preceding years.
After setting aside £586,651 (up
£49,194) for depreciation and £3,896,697
(up £1,289,729) for income tax —including
sales tax, etc., the Government’s whack
was £9,120,000, up £3,520,000—the
declared net result was £744,719 stronger
at £3,348,023. It was 7.9 p.c. of turn-
over as against 7.4 p.c, for 1950 and
8.2 p.c. for the years 1936-40. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) it was 36.4 p.c. After paying the
pref. div., enough remained to show a
juicy 189.4 p.c. on ord. capital as against
146.8, 25.3, 37 .and 30.6 p.c, back to
1947. Since money was again wanted in
the business, this time owing to the
tightening of credit facilities, the ord. div.
was lowered from 50 p.c. to 30 p.c. —for
the five preceding years no div. was paid
—making the average 21.1 p.c. since the
merger of 21 years ago.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion, a comfortable financial posi-
tion, and the advantage of a rich American
parent, whereby the board has been
relieved of much of the anxiety about
bank and other credit which is a head-
ache to many other trades at the moment:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1956. 1951.
Pref. . . £561,660 £561,600 £661,600 £561,600
Ord. . . 1,750,000 1,756,000 1,750,000 1,750.000
Outside
interests . . 42,175 47,569 —-
Bank ov’draft 2,935,572 3,829,803
Creditors . . 4,025,859 5,215,425 5,757,261 7,190,610
Tax reserve 73,880 507,383 2,697,251 5,133,959
Final div. .. 16,848 16,848 891,848 541,848
Premises .. 1,117,570 1,172,073 1,167,621 1,658,321
Plant . . 2,965,108 2,815,122 2,163,139 2,692,841
Stocks . . 6,252,787 9.046,623 9,535,043 14,046,149
Debtors .. 660,550 903,580 727,950 1,641,981
Diff. in share
values .. 25,663 25,663 —-
Cash, etc. .. 372,210 339,412 1,245,334 2,023,180
Thus the co. was able to carry an addi-
tional £4,511,106 of stocks, an extra
£914,031 of book-debts, add £1,020,402
net to the book-value of fixed assets,
strengthen the holding of cash, etc., by
£777,846, and at the same time reduce
the amount coming to trade creditors
(£1,686,227) by £363,817. The debt to
“allied and affiliated cos. for materials”
(£5,504,383) was increased by £1,797,166.
Import restrictions —a double-edged
device so far as this co. is concerned —
the falling-off of new car registrations
since the close of accounts and other diffi-
culties suggest a lower level of net earn-
ings for the current term, but the showing
promises to be a very satisfactory one.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
• Dividends —(To Re- Re-
Dec,, Profit. Pref.* Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 28,370 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 470 115,809
1946.. 29,360 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 1,460 117,269
1947.. 40,622 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 12,722 129,991
1948.. 45.562 9 „ 9 ~ 27,900 17,662 147,653
Share premiums, £17,000 .. 164,653
Insurance res. appears, £lO,OOO .. 174,653
1949.. 51.416 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 31,500 19,916 194,569
1950.110,074 10 ~ 12i ~ 55,382 54,742 249,311
Unexplained addition, £28,000 .. 277,311
Proceeds revalued assets, £200,000 . . 477,311
1951.. 89.487 10 p.c.lOip.c. 49,333 40,154 517,465
* Pref. div. subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
Too much notice need not be taken of
the apparent slip of £20,587 in the 1951
profit of this big manufacturer of hosiery,
lingerie and men’s wear. It excludes
£28,000 dropped from somewhere into
general reserves, while the 1950 figure in-
cluded £23,650 received from the New
Zealand subsidiary, Lustre (N.Z.), Ltd.,
out of accumulated net earnings of previ-
ous years. No divs. were received from
subsidiaries last term.
Leaving both these items out of the
reckoning, but including £2721 (up £443)
sent to the insurance reserve, the parent’s
own declared profit last term was £89,487
(up £2973). That was after allowing a
liberal £52,861 (down £6510) for depreci-
ation and an unstated but larger amount
for taxation. The £89,487 was enough
to pay the prefs., which are subject to
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act,
their full 10 p.c. contract rate (£8333)
and then show 20.3 p.c. on average ord.
capital compared with 20.8, 16.7, 17.1
and 14.8 p.c. back to 1947.
Tighter bank credit was the chief factor
which influenced the board in its decision
to lower the distribution from \2\ p.c.,
which included 2} p.c. jubilee bonus, to
10i p.c.—interim 6| p.c. and final 4 p.c.
—thus leaving £40,154 (44.9 p.c.) of the
year’s net earnings to plough back into
the business. Reserves also benefited by
the £28,000 already mentioned, and by
£200,000 which was part of the surplus
arising from a revaluation of the co.’s
factory freehold in Sydney. Therevalua-
tion is, of course, a book entry which
does not affect actual earning-power one
way or the other, but does bring the
asset concerned more into line with its
present-day money-value, and gives the
overall financial structure a more balanced
appearance.
It was a creditable performance con-
sidering the difficulties, chiefly the rise
in costs, including taxation, growth in
competition from both local and overseas
sources, and the hand-to-mouth buying
policy of retailers, which has become
more marked since the close of accounts.
Over the last few years the forward-
looking board, realising that style, finish,
quality and price would soon become the
dominating factors in sales, installed a
lot of new plant for production of full-
fashioned nylon hosiery, modernised the
co.’s existing equipment, put in an
auxiliary-plant to help offset the damag-
ing effects of power blackouts, and over-
hauled the distributing and other sections
of the business.
Earlier-than-expected deliveries of
yarns and other raw materials from over-
seas were responsible for most of the
large increase of £323,057 in stocks, which
appear at or below cost:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951.
Ord. capital. . £231,041 £335,614 £400,000 £400,000
Pref. capital. . 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages . . 20,500 26,500 26,500 200,000
Overdraft . . 236,861 133,870 169,704 265,042
Creditors .' , 36,625 68,287 35,265 55,456
Tax provision 54,000 45,922 90,000 148,059
Final div. .. 13,950 15,750 88,666 20,166
Freeholds .. 117,500 124,000 127,500 371,701
Plant ~ 103,706 141,771 154,839 160,277
Stocks .. 460,133 488,774 589,191 912,248
Debtors . . 130,845 131,528 201,354 227,458
Cash, etc. . . 568 562 601 626
Shares subsid., 17,210 17,210 17,210 17,210
Of the growth of £244,201 in freeholds,
£200,000' was on account of the revalua-
tion. To finance the balance (mainly
expenditure on the Newcastle factory),
carry the additional stocks and an extra
£26,104 of book-debts, the co. increased
the mortgage debt by £173,500, the over-
draft by £95,338 and the amount coming
to sundry creditors by £20,191. Overall
it is a carefully arranged structure.
Stocks are free of wool and woollen-
products, and import restrictions have
greatly lessened the danger of being
caught with a big pile of highly-priced raw
materials, as well as reduced the threat
of increased competition from imported
hosiery. The new factory at Newcastle
is expected to be completed early in 1953,
and the New Zealand offshoot is earning
“satisfactory” profits. Moreover, the
parent’s sales for the first half of 1952
exceed those for the corresponding period
of 1951, and forward bookings for the
second half are reported “excellent.”
The board therefore looks forward to
again showing results “pleasing to share-
holders.”
At 30s. 9d. (445. 6d. early in 1952) the
pound ords. return 6.6 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 28s. yield 7.1 p.c.
at the full contract rate. Net tangible
cover is £l2 prefs. and 455. lOd. ords.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends ■,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£* £* £* £* £*
1945.. 94,678 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,041 29,485 652,731
1946.. 94,210 13,152 15 „ „ 78,059 2,997 655,728
Capital profit, £42,872 .. .. 698,600
1947.. 548.13,152 10 p.e.= 52,040 38,536 736,956
To staff funds, £25,000 .. .. 711,956
Capital profit, £41,154 .. •• 753,110
1948.-117,885 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 52,693 805,803
Capital profit, £9740.. .. 815,543
1949- 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 61,190 866,733
Capital profit, £27,597
1950- 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 50,447 944,777
Capital profit, £9150 . ■ ■ • 953,9-7
1951- 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 61,245 1,015,17.2
Capital loss,. £4OB .. •• •• 1,014,764
1952- 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 52,117 1,066,881
* Fijian currency.
Though the price of the scrip in this
big island merchandising co. and plan-
tation-owner has followed the trends and
moods of the market, the business has
moved steadily from strength to strength
over a long period. On Sydney ’Change
the pound ords. fell from 675. 9d. in
July, 1951, to 435. in March, 1952,
strengthened to 51s. in June and
advanced to 575. last week. In Aus-
tralian currency (at the current rate of
exchange) the return at 575. is 3.9 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. So the investor who
looks for 4.9 p.c. on his money counts
on the div. going to p.c., or other
benefits. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 255. (295. a
year ago) yield 5.3 p.c. in Australian
currency. Net tangible cover is visibly
£8 4s. lOd. prefs. and 61s. ords.
For the 16 years to the close of
accounts in 1939 the ords. received divs.
averaging 5.7 p.c., followed by three lots
of 6 p.c., two of 8 p.c., and then a steady
10 1 p.c. for the eight years to the close of
last accounts. And since 1942 £288,000
of inner reserves has been disclosed,
while capital profits from sales of
securities, etc., totalled £ 130,000-odd.
The £739,613 of paid capital (it includes
£219,206 of 6 p.c. prefs.) now has the
support and assistance of £1,066,881 of
reserves ; so the two combined need turn
in only 3.6 p.c. to cover current rates of
distribution, whereas last term’s profit
was 6.5 p.c. on shareholders’ funds. All
these and other things give the 10 p.c.
div. as comfortable an appearance as
anything of the kind can have in these
uncertain times.
The co. is not subject to the same set of
economic fiscal influences as operate
in Australia. Trade activity in Fiji and
the near-by islands depends largely upon
conditions in the sugar, copra, banana,
dairying, mining and a number of minor
industries. Last term sugar and copra—
taken by the British Government under
long-term contracts —and all other island
produce continued to fetch high prices.
After making an unstated provision for
“stock depreciation,” because of the
changing background, the co.’s gross
profit from trading (up £80,739) and other
sources (up £18,694) increased by
£99,433:
Gross profit— 1950. 1951. 1952.
Trading ~ .. £245,162 £300,688 £381,427
Other .. .. 167,675 164,868 183,562
Total .. . . £412,837 £465,556 £564,989
Exes 321,998 364,887 457,155
Profit claimed .. . . £90,839 £100,669 £107,834
Unexplained additions.. 24,800 25,768 9,475
Profit per table .. £115,639 £126,437 £117,309
Including a liberal £63,246 (up £12,224)
for depreciation and something for taxa-
tion, exes, gobbled all but £7165 of the
gain. Taking into the reckoning
unexplained additions to reserves (down
£16,293), the all-in profit was £117,309
(down £9128). That covered the.pref. div.
and 20 p.c. on ord. capital as against
21.7, 19.7, 19.7, 20.1 and 17.3 p.c. back
to 1947.
The co.’s plantation and other interests
were not seriously affected by the severe
hurricane which hit the main island of
Fiji in January last. After making pro-
vision for all likely losses on this account,
there was a net addition of £9347 to the
insurance funds (£225,044), through which
provision is normally made for such
contingencies.
The co. continues to finance expansion
out of earnings, and still has plenty of
elbow-room for manceuvre:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
(Fijian.) (Fijian..) (Fijian.) (Fijian.)
Paid capital. . £739,613 £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits . . 2,646 2,485
Creditors, etc. 138,902 148,279 99,736 194,038
Suspense* . . 137,901 133,800 150,168 175,866
Final divs. . . 20,020 26,020 26,020 26,020
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 278,313 281,092 269,310 243,151
Plantations . . 14,796 69,988 67,633 44,721
Stocks, etc.. . 519,209 450,997 531,544 858,440
Capital value
branches ~ 113,192 94,681 116,907 200,399
Book debts, etc. 210,026 298,475 241,130 372,447
Investments &
cash . . 776,279 799,740 804,183 483,257
* Provision for income tax, exchange, etc.
To meet the year’s net additions of
£326,896 to stocks and £215,209 to book-
debts and capital value of branches,
investments and cash were drawn upon
for £320,926. Only £94,302 was added to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc.
Now that the materials and skilled-
labor problems are becoming less acute,
the board expects to make more progress


Personal.
WALLACE. —Re specimens, mislaid letter-
card. Kindly advise address. —E. BROS.
ŵ
ms
Circular Chart! for oil typeg
of Recording Instrument*
•or inf claaa of
or Equlpmant
METER CHARTS • SpoeUlty
O’SILUVAN^Ii
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
M. 0. ALDER, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Public Notice.
WE. ALEXANDER GEORGE SAFRAN
and VERONICA MARIA SAFRAN, of
Hungarian nationality, born at Gyorok
and Bekescsaba, Hungary, resident five
years in Australia, now residing at 5
Marne Street, Vaucluse, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Telephones: FA 2176 (8 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Gorrientes. ' Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrie, Kobin M. Corrie
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
1 "-Z" .
im',%
wm.
Esdaiie's 2-J-x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
® Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
• Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
• Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2ix —Eye relief 34in.
to s fin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23£ft. per
100 yards.
ẁ
is?-
Telegrams
“Esdailson,”
Sydney.
BW 8631.
ẃ
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
m
The Brisbane City Council invites applications for
subscriptions to a new £500,000 Public Loan needed to
provide funds for essential works such as extensions
to the Electricity, Sewerage, Water, and Transport Systems of
Australia’s fastest growing capital city.
NOW OPEN!
THE BRISBANE CITY COUNCIL
£500,000
PUBLIC LOAN
Free of Exchange
throughout Australia
/410
r
PER ANNUM
FOR TEN YEARS
Highest Loan Interest Rate in Australia ! !
A Gilt-Edged Investment with Guaranteed Security showing a high rate
of interest providing a real opportunity for large and small investors .
Every penny of due interest and capital repayment is
GUARANTEED BY THE QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT I
TRUSTEE SECURITY. The Loan Is an authorised
security in Tasmania and Queensland.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING. Applications will
be made to Stock Exchanges in capital cities to have the
Loan listed. , , '
AMOUNT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS. Amounts of £2O
and multiples thereof may be subscribed. The price o\
issue is par. . .
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE. The Commonwealth
Bank of Australia is the banker for the issue.
INTEREST is payable half yearly free of exchange in
Australia or its Territories.
CASH APPLICATIONS. In full or 10% on application
the balance either in full or in 30% instalments, or any
time before August 31st, 1952.
LOAN CLOSES JULY 26TH, 1952
WRITE FOR PROSPECTUS
To the Town Clerk, Bris-
bane (or the Town Clerk
in your Capital City).
Please forward to my address
a copy of the Prospectus of
The Brisbane City Council
£500,000 Public Loan.
Name
Address ...
Anybody with £2O or more to invest may subscribe •..
Council Bonds are negotiable on any Stock Exchange at any timet
This Loan has been underwritten by lan Potter & Co.. Melbourne .
APPLY FOR PROSPECTUS TO THE TOWN CLERK, CITY HALL,
BRISBANE to the Town Clerk in your Capital City— to any branch
of the Commonwealth Bank, or registered Stock Broker
with the new building pro-
gramme, to finance which the co.
has the necessary funds. It is
unlikely that the new buildings
will make much, if any, differ-
ence to earning-power, which is
indirectly linked to the state of
commodity markets in the U.S.
and Britain. In the “free”
markets in Malaya and the
Philippines, there has been a
steep fall in the price of copra
since the beginning of 1952.
North Kalgurli (1912), Ltd.
Considering the sharp rise in
operating costs and diversion of
labor to work on the new shaft,
this London-controlled co. (paid
capital £llO,OOO in Is. shares),
operating on the Kalgooriie
Golden Mile (W.A.), put up a
good performance last term, as
the following comparison J of
operating results shows;
Ore Head Gold Net
Trted.,Value, Rec’d, Profit. Divs.
Jan., Tons. Dwt. Oz. & &
(75%)
’48..152,566 6.59 48,020 40,022 45,375
’49..217,541 5.83 51,906 58,455 45,375
(1125%)
’50..232,893 5.86 62,264 87,744 68,062
(100%)
’51..244,066 5.22 59,062 89,081 59,125
It was the higher price of gold
that offset the drop in head-value
of the ore and rise of ss. Id. a
ton in operating costs (425. 6d.
a ton). The £89,018 (up £1337)
of profit was 87 p.c. on capital.
The nominal rate of div, was
lowered from p.c. to
100 p.c., subject to U.K. income
tax of 9s. 6d. in the £, which
makes 100 p.c. worth 52.5 p.c.
net (stg.).
The new shaft, which was to
go down 1500 ft., is now about
complete; it will service the
southern and downward continu-
ation of ore-bodies opened up
in the Croesus leases. In May,
1949, three leases formerly
separating the Croesus and Kal-
gurli areas were bought from
one of De Bemales’s old group,
thus giving the co.’s holdings a
continuous run of ly miles. Oie
reserves total 2,314,941 tons, of
which 1,582,831 tons, averaging
5.75 dwt., are positive and
731,110 tons, averaging 5.06dwt,,
probable.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £313,641 (includ-
ing £89,571 of stores, etc.), and
current liabilities £243,948.
In April last 6d. a share was
sent out as against Is. last term.
Gains from sale of gold on the
free market have failed to off-
set the continued rise in costs.
For the quarter to January 31,
1952, the premium on Australian
gold sold on the free market
averaged £1 ss. an ounce. In
April the premium had dropped
to 13s. Bd, an ounce. The Aus-
tralian market prices the scrip at
16s. 6d. as against 19s. 9d. early
in 1952.
To date Pioneer Scheelite,
Hatches Creek, Centralia, is liv-
ing up to prospectus estimates.
A first crushing of about 140
a nrsi crusmng ur duuui
tons of good-grade ore has been
put through the local G ° v
ment battery for 87 bags con-
,.pntrates worth about £7ooo—
nt vet available
ihf h^aifrLTand"fading gear
are nearing completion, and
development of new ore on the
88ft. and 216 ft. levels is in hand,
Shareholders will have a better
idea of what the co. is capable
of when its own mill gets to
which might be ahead of
original schedule date in
December,
* * * *
For the j ast 15 years dumsily-
named Enterprise of New
Q u j nea Gold and Petroleum
N T has unsuc-
development, N.L., nas unsuc
cessfully sought a petroleum
p ro specting permit for the Sepik
s istr f ct (N ew Guinea). Chief
stumbling-block has been the
C o’s financial stature ; and the
r.nvpmment recently told the
uOVenlineni leccuuy iuiu uiv.
board that assurances that the
p „ n nhtain the resources
cO, , can .„ 1 . . S °T
needed, if a permit is issued, are
not enough to satisfy official
- ° the precise nature
However nominal capital has
However, nom P
been increased to £500,000 oy
creation of 70,000 new £5 shares,
Control, the board can ask share-
holders and/or the public to
subscr.be more capital But
before that happens the co.
will still need to catch its hare
namely, the permit. An effort
is also being made to revive
interest in the co. s goldmine at
Edie Creek (N.G.), which it has
been unable to re-equip and
operate, owing to lack of funds.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO THOMAS JOSEPH ARMSTRONG late of Bee-
mara Street Smithfleld- —TAKE NOTICE that EDITH
MARY ARMSTRONG has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2048 of 1952 on the ground of your desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 3rd day of October 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge from
N C ROWLES & TOWNSHEND, Solicitors, 92 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN MAUD SILVER late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that FRANCIS MICHAEL SILVER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2012 of 1902
on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court House King Street
Sydney by the Third day of October 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from T. L
BLATOHFORD, Solicitor, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO OLIVE MABEL MAGNER late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that BRUCE MAGNER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1885 of 1952 on the grounds ol
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you ma.'
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court House King Street Sydney by the 6th day
of October 1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from T. L. BLATOHFORD, Solicitor,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAit
Registrar.
Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The Lord Mayor’s ball was, of course,
the function of the week. The Civic
Fathers were there en masse; so were the
heads of the three services, the Law, etc.
The decor was excellent; the backdrop to
the stage was Government House, com-
plete with tower, flag and lovely garden,
and in a simulated breeze fluttered the
Union Jack. The garden setting was
made more real by trees banking the
stage and real grass lawns which, edged
with cyclamens and small poinsettias, sur-
rounded a gravel path. While dancing
was in progress the lights dimmed in the
ballroom, the blue of the sky darkened
to night, lights shone in the windows of
the house, and tower and flag were flood-
lit.
Trumpeters in scarlet heralded the
arrival of the vice-regal party, which was
met by the Lord Mayor, Cr. O. J. Nilsen,
and the Lady Mayoress, his daughter,
Mrs. John Inkster. Lady Brooks wore
a lovely gown of heavy cream brocade
patterned "with a flower-design in gold.
The decollete neckline of the fitted bodice
whs finished with folds of the material
to give an off-the-shoulder effect, and the
skirt was slightly trained. Of cornflower-
blue-and-gold brocade was the gown
worn by Mrs. Inkster; the slimly-cut
skirt had a back-floating panel to form
a train. Joan Nilsen, granddaughter of
the Lord Mayor, made her bow to the
Governor wearing a bouffant frock of
azure-blue tulle. Another to choose the
same material in the same shade was Mrs.
Con Curtain; her bouffant skirt was
scattered with diamente. Mrs. John
Knox danced in grey-and-silver brocade,
Mrs. Dick Noone in grey satin and gold,
with seed-pearl embroidery on the neck-
line.
There will be 2000 visitors in this
city next month for the Australasian
Medical Congress, to be held from
August 22 to 29, and their entertainment
presents a large task to the small com-
mittee which has been formed to arrange
the social programme. President of the
committee is Mrs. H. A. Standish,
daughter of Sir John Newman-Morris,
president of the congress. This committee
has been divided into several sections.
Mrs. Frank May is convenor of all
private entertainment, Mrs. P. Major is
to co-ordinate all transport, Mrs. H. C.
Colville is in charge of a social centre
and information bureau at the Oriental
Hotel, Mrs. Eccles McKay is arranging
all functions for junior members of
congress, and Mrs. G. A. Syme is sports
convenor, with a golf tournament as the
principal activity.
Among the large functions associated
with the congress will be a reception and
ball at the Exhibition on Monday, August
25, which will follow the opening of the
congress by the Governor-General. On
August 28, in the presence of the State
Governor and Lady Brooks, the official
congress dinner will be held at the Roy ale
Ballroofn. This will probably be the
largest dinner ever given in this city. But
the most colorful function is likely to be
the congress ball in the same ballroom,
at which visitors will be guests of the
Victorian branch of the B.M.A. —this will
also be attended by the Governor and his
lady. A function which no woman visitor
will want to miss is the mannequin-parade
of model gowns and hats to be held at the
South Yarra home of Lady Gengoult
Smith. Co-convenors are Mrs. James
Buchanan and Mrs. Ross Hayes. A
feature of the junior entertainment will be
a dance at Tudor Court on August 26.
On the same night the Victorian Medical
Women’s Association will hold a dinner,
to be followed by a meeting of the Aus-
tralian Federation of Medical Women.
Interspersed with these functions will be
the parties given by many hosts and
hostesses, among them Lady Hurley, Lady
Sewell, Lady Burston and Lady Newton.
Almost every member of the English-
Speaking Union turned up at the monthly
luncheon in the Victoria Palace banquet-
hall when the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, accompanied by his wife, was the
guest-speaker. This is the third time the
vice-regal pair have so honored the
E.-S.U. Lady Brooks wore a slim-fitting
junior-navy frock which had touches of
white pique at the neckline; her small
felt cloche was in matching navy. She
was attended by Anne Spraggett, whose
ensemble was in forest-green toning.
The guests-of-honor were greeted by
the chairman of the Victorian division
of E.-S.U., Sir Owen Dixon, and Lady
Dixon. In the official party were the
U.S. Consul-General, Henry Stebbins,
and his wife; Lady Lowe ; Commodore
R. R. Dowling and Mrs. Dowling; U.K.
Trades Commissioner A. W. Burton and
Mrs. Burton; Justice Scholl; the Colin
Mackays ; and Geoff Ingram, president
of the Younger Set of the E.-S.U. Others
present at the luncheon included Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, Lady Robinson, Mrs. Dan
Reddan, Mrs. Harold Darling, Mrs.
Rupert Downes, Mrs. F. Dobinson and
Marguerite Weir,
Members of the Alliance Fran?aise of
Victoria celebrated July 14 with a dance
in the Lower Town Hall. On the official
table were low bowls of red carnations,
camellias and poinsettia. Each guest, on
arriving, was presented with a bow or
rosette of tricolor ribbon and was
welcomed by the Consul for France,
M. Gerard Sirot, and his wife, the presi-
dent of the Alliance Franqaise, Madame
A. Gay, and the secretary, Madame W.
Cockerton. Madame Sirot’s lovely gown
was of heavy cream brocade patterned in
self-toned scrolls. Madame Gay wore
midnight blue and silver lace, her daughter
Lilliane an American Beauty crepe frock
which had a deep circular yoke of match-
ing sequins. At the official table were
the U.S. Consul-General, Henry Stebbins,
and his wife, the Chinese Consul, Mr.
T. W. Liu, and Madame Liu, the Swiss
Consul, M. Paul-Emile Cattin, and Mrs.
Cattin, the Belgian Consul, Mr. R. Van-
derkelen, and Mr. and Mrs. F. E. Lamps.
Madame Cockerton’s full-skirted gown
was of royal-blue corded faille. Valerie
O’Neill danced in pale-rose brocade shot
with emerald green, Lenni Abrams in
a rose-scattered blue tulle skirt and a
strapless bodice of black velvet, and Andre
McDonald in lilac tulle.
This is Heather, only daughter of
Prime Minister R. G. Menzies and Mrs.
Menzies, who, after schooling at Ruyton,
went on to the Uni. Conservatoriufn,
where she studied the piano. This she
had to give up, however, so that she
might assist her mother with entertaining
at Canberra. When in Melbourne
Heather is a driver for Red Cross, and
recently she did a good job with Marion
McPherson as ticket-secretary for the
“Kangaroo” film premiere for Red Cross
funds. Heather, who is tall and slim,
has two brothers, Kenneth and Ian —the
latter has a property in north-east Vic-
toria.
The Young Contingent of the Victoria
League in Victoria is to launch an appeal
to establish a trust for an annual scholar-
ship for one of the British migrant
children at the Northcote school. This
school was set up in 1937 under the terms
of the will of the late Lady Northcote,
whose husband was Governor-General of
Australia from 1903-08, for under-
privileged and orphaned children. It is in
a lovely valley 11 miles from Bacchus
Marsh. A portion of the land, all donated
by Sir William Angliss, was set aside for
the erection of cottages where children
could live together as family units in the
care of cottage mothers. Child migration
ceased during the war, so the school was
temporarily closed. Now it has reopened,
and one of the new children will
benefit from the trust scholarship about
to be formed by the Young Contingent, of
which Marjorie Tatnall is chairman. Mrs.
A. B. Sanders, of 431 Glenferrie-road,
Malvern, has lent her home for a dance
on August 2, at which the Scholarship
Fund will be opened.
There will be a Continental dinner-
dance at the Delphic on September 9, the
proceeds of which will be equally divided
between the Limbless Soldiers’ Associa-
tion and St. Vincent’s Hospital. During
the evening there will be a brief manne-
quin-parade, when clothes from the salon
of Eve Mitchener and hats by Madame
Lille Courturier will be shown. A floor
show will feature two ballets, and stars
from the musical “South Pacific,” which
opens that week, will contribute items.
Tickets, which cost five guineas for a
double, may be obtained from Madame
L. Couturier (Cent. 5435), Mrs. M. I.
Stirling (MU 5687) and Mrs. Con Curtain
(MW 1862).
From Sydney
A really delightful musicale was given
during the week by the music circle of
the English-Speaking Union when
Elizabeth Northcott, accompanied by
Sheila Collett, was guest-of-honor. Miss
Northcott (who was presented with a
posy of early spring flowers) was received
and welcomed by Mrs. H. Twigden,
honorary director of the music circle.
Music was provided by youthful soprano
Marjorie Conley and by 17-year-old
pianist Vladimir Pleshakov. Hazel
McGilvray (recently returned from
abroad) was accompanist. Hostesses were
Mrs. Persia Porter, Mrs. Alec Keeling
and Miss Vi Hamblin. Among the guests
(who numbered over 100) were Lady
Plowman, Lady Parker, Mrs. H. I.
Brady, Mrs. Foulds, Mrs. L. J. Herron,
Mr and Mrs. James Hay, Mrs. Keith
Morris, Mrs. Alec Rutherford and Mrs.
Hector Hamilton.
Here is a picture of Sister Joan Collett,
of London, who arrived in the Strath-
naver as a nursing sister. She has been
visiting her grandmother, Mrs. C. P.
Lindeman, of Double Bay. Her mother
was formerly Nita Lindeman. Photo-
graph by Hugh Spencer.
A feature of the International Ball this
year is to be the decorated tables, and
there are to be two competitions—one
for the national tables of the consular
corps, and a second for the most-
beautifully-dressed table for a non-
consular party. There are to be national
dances of Greece, Yugoslavia, Norway
and New Zealand, a ballet dressed in
blue-and-white to signify the colors of
United Nations, and a tableau to be
arranged by Madame Regaia which will
illustrate the importance of U.N. and the
necessity for a spirit of unity between
all countries at the present time. The
ball is set down for August 7 at the
Troc.
There is another International Ball in
August—this time on the Ist, to be
held at the University Union Hall. It is
being run by the Sydney University Inter-
national Club, which, although only three
and a half years old, is one of the most
active student bodies. Students of some
20 nationalities are expected to be present
at the ball, when the floor-show will
include a “Dinikling,” or Philippine
bamboo-dance, performed by Adelina
Agbayani and Teddy Marquez, both Arts
students. Ray Marquez (Agriculture) and
Teddy Regala (Arts) will manipulate the
bamboo-sticks over which the dancers
leap- Gerald Patterson, dentistry student,
is convenor of the ball committee.
Tickets, 12s. 6d..each, are obtainable from
the University Social Studies Department.
It was a novel idea for Doris Fitton
to arrange for the Press to meet members
of the cast of “The Cocktail Party” (the
Independent’s next production) at a real
live cocktail-party on Tuesday. Only
difficulty was that one kept expecting the
psychiatrist to start analysing one’s frus-
trations at any moment, and as a solution
sending one off to martyrdom in some
remote part of the world. It will be good
to see “The Cocktail Party” (the T. S.
Eliot one, of course), because it has been
so much talked about, and the audience
will have the added pleasure of confirm-
ing or discarding their preconceived
ideas, thereby giving themselves some-
thing’ more to talk about—always a good
thing.
Mrs. A, Kirkpatrick, who is Curator of
Shells at the Sydney Museum, gave an
interesting talk at the Overseas League
on Wednesday last; she spoke of
the work of the scientist in all its phases
and made it sound completely fascinating
in each one (although looking for micro-
scopic animals in storm-water channels
wouldn’t appeal to everyone). Perhaps
most interesting were her comments on
shells, etc., of which commercial use is
made. It was news, for instance, to many
of her listeners that cultured pearls are
real pearls created by the oyster and just
as beautiful as those which “grow wild.”
Mrs. Kirkpatrick, who is well known as
Miss Joyce Allan, spoke of the difficulties
under which she wrote her book on Aus-
tralian shells. It was written in Sydney
in the evenings, and the blackouts caused
many hours to be lost. In spite of this,
as Major Chapman pointed out in his
speech of thanks to Mrs. Kirkpatrick, it
is the most authoritative book in the
world on the subject.
The annual Junior Red Cross Exhibi-
tion, which is always such a success, will
be held this year on July 31 at the Sydney
Town Hall. This is the 32nd exhibition
to be held, and there are expected to be
6000 Junior Red Cross members attend-
ing. Juniors from the Woollahra Public
School will present a pageant, “Our
Pledge,” and choirs from other schools
will take part. The pageant has been
written and produced by Victor
McMahon, who is well known for his
work in the children’s theatre.
Cammeray is one of Sydney’s most
civic-minded suburbs, and its Community
Centre is a flourishing institution. The
children’s library it runs is one of the
best-equipped in the State, and its healthy
finances are kept well nourished by a
constant stream of functions. Its big
one, of course, is the annual ball, which
was held last Saturday night at the
Warringah Hall. Details were in the
hands of a livewire ladies’ committee
comprising Mesdames Fowler, Gulliver.
Kalucy and Ormes —the last-named is the
wife of the president of the centre, Ray
Ormes. Mrs. Ella Ingram won the prize
for the best-decorated table—a floral
fiesta of fine artistic design. Another
well-decorated table was that of Mrs. Nan
Morgan, among whose big party were the
Arthur Davis couple. Mrs. Mary Aitken
and Mrs. Rene Worboys also brought
large parties.
Leone Stredwick, the brilliant and
attractive young pianist, will give her
first recital since returning from Europe,
where she has been studying, at the Con.
next Friday, July 25. Her programme
will include works by Beethoven, Chopin.
Schumann (the Fantasie Op. 14), Couperin
and Bartok.
Debs to be presented at the Lady
Mayoress’s Ball in September were given
some very good advice about correct dress
for the occasion when they and their
mothers were entertained at afternoon-
tea by the Lady Mayoress during the
week. Miss Mina Scully, who will train
the girls for their presentation, said that
soft materials such as tulle, net, lace and
organza were almost invariably the most
successful, and that rich brocades and
lames, no matter how expensive, never
looked right. She said also that debs,
when designing their dresses, should allow
for more fullness at the sides than at the
front and back, as this helped them to a
more graceful carriage the dress
“walked with them,” as it were, instead of
impeding their steps. Too bare shoulders
are not correct for debs, although a
strapless dress can perhaps be covered
with a cape or jacket. Long white kid
gloves and silver shoes are de rigueur. It
is possible that white satin shoes will be
“the thing” next year, as they are becom-
ing the rage for teenage wear abroad at
present. Debs should wear very little
jewellery, and only the tiniest earrings if
any at all.


“fhe Greatest Name
in the
Battery World”
Hxi
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX3.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Come south on leave. Chief Judge of
New Guinea and Papua, Frederick
Beaumont Phillips, weather-burned and
looking mighty pleased —it’s his second
long leave in 27 years. He was appointed
to his present post in 1949, but his judge-
ship up there goes back to 1928. A Mel-
bourne University man, admitted to the
High Court and Victorian Bars in 1915, he
began practising against Wilhelm almost
at once, first with the A.A.M.C. overseas,
then, as an observer, with the A.F.C. He
was overseas again between 1941-44,
ending as a group-captain, R.A.AF.
When Matupi blew its top in a searing
blast that reduced Rabaul and environs
to the nakedness of a grey, shaven skull,
the judge’s competence in organising the
evacuation earned him a C.B.E. Now
62, his Honor has certainly not rusticated
—in one period of two months he tried
some 40 murder cases.
“Macnell”: A nuggety officer with the
quick eyes of a seaman (and a pilot),
Edward Owen Price landed in Melbourne
the other day to become Australia’s
Fourth Naval Member and Commodore
(Air). He has some 3000 flying-hours in
his log, much of it as a Fleet Air-Arm
Hurricane pilot. On the purely naval
side he has had command of H.M.S.
Mauritius, a 12-gunned 6in. cruiser, and
came to Australia from the bridge of her
sister-ship, Kenya, For part of War 11,
and a year after it, Director of Airfield
and Carrier Requirements at the
Admiralty, and later Director of Air
Warfare there, he’ll be a handy man to
have in our air-conscious fleet. Thirty-
six of his 50 years have been spent in
Service blue.
Wearing the headgear which once
earned English migrants the nickname of
“tweed-cappers,” a genial Lancashire lad,
Bernard Pykett, has landed in Westralia
to make his home there. Despite his 58
years and the amputation of his right
leg at the hip—a result of wounds in the
Kaiser’s war —he is still an expert
swimmer and high-diver. In Liverpool
he made his high dives before thousands,
one stunt being a 75ft. dive into 6ft. of
water in a 15ft.-diaraeter tank. Another
spectacular act was, wearing a suit soaked
in petrol and ignited, diving into a
tank of water, through a surface of blaz-
ing petrol. Though his face has been
burnt several times, it still carries a
comedian’s grin, which reminds that he
is the same Bernard Pykett who used to
face the mike in the Tommy Handley
radio show “Itma.” He hopes to get a
job as a swimming- and diving-instructor
m Perth.
“Uramao”: Recently appointed rector
of the famed Jesuit College of Stony-
hurst, in Lancashire, Enzedder Francis
N. Vavasour is descendant of prob-
ably the oldest Catholic family of
England. The Vavasours stem from the
Stourtons, a Saxon family which planted
itself in England before the Norman
Conquest. The head of the tribe, owning
the title of Lord Mowbray, Seagrave and
Stourton, is allied to the ducal house of
Norfolk. When the Duchess of Norfolk
visited New Zealand in 1937 she looked
up the Vavasours, in Marlborough, one
of whom, the late Henry Dunstan
Vavasour, father of the new rector, was
a cousin of the duchess. Francis was
born in N.Z., where his father and
grandfather were associated with the
Cliffords and Welds in establishing the
pastoral industry. On the first mob of
sheep being landed from N.S.W. in
1844, Francis’s father drove them from
Wellington to his father’s estate at Ware-
haka, in the Wairarapa. Francis, himself,
before studying for the priesthood, had
been in charge of the agricultural side of
Stonyhurst.
George Matheson, who had been
Queensland representative of J.C.W.’s
and manager of the Firm’s His Majesty’s
in Brisbane for many years, was,
at 76, probably its oldest em-
ployee when he passed on the
other day. He had managed most
of J.C.W.’s theatres, and in his 30
years of looking after the Brisbane
interests had hobnobbed with most stage-
and concert-celebrities, from Melba to
the Oliviers. Bom in Dunedin (N.Z.),
Matheson could recall the first movie-
show in Australia, a series of crude shorts
in J.C.W.’s 1900 production of “Matsa”
in Melbourne. Later, for the Firm, he
toured the country with a full-length film,
which he claimed was the first genuine
“flick” of the Boer War. Always dapper,
always attached to a cigar, he was a
lively reminiscence-raconteur.
“C. 8.”: By way of a change, an Aus-
tralian feature-film is to be made in Mel-
bourne without cattle, dust, blowflies,
desert treks, sundowners or a missing
mortgage. In place of these hallowed
props there will be a modern story about
a Melbourne man who opens a cabaret
in face of strong opposition by his farmer-
father ; the villain will be a gold-digging
actress who busts the show up with her
scheming. The first full-length picture to
be made in the Australian Athens since
the ’thirties, when F T. Thring made his
ill-fated attempt in the burnt-out shell of
His Majesty’s Theatre, it will be written
and directed by Dick Harwood, who
made some of the first Australian movies.
Leading lady will be Joan Bilceaux, a
local “blues” singer. It will be produced
by Cambridge Films, of Box Hill, and
shooting has started in a cabaret at Ring-
wood ; “Night Club” will be its title.
Brigadier Claude Esdaile Prior (no
relation to the artist who here presents
him) has a distinctly repeat habit. He was
a company-commander and adjutant of
a machine-gun battalion in Wilhelm’s
show; for the first year of Hitler’s he
commanded a battalion of similar stut-
terers provided by Vickers. In 1911, a
corporal in the N.S.W. cadet contingent,
he attended the coronation of George V ;
in 1937, with the somewhat more elevated
status of adjutant of the Australian con-
tingent, he attended George Vi’s crown-
ing. Colonel in the 6th Division in the
early Middle East stoushing, he came
home with his brig.’s rank up, and for
close on a year was military-secretary.
Successively in charge of the administra-
tion of both Eastern and Southern Com-
mands after the war, he was later sent
off to Indonesia, senior Australian military
observer for the U.N. Commission. His
work there was characteristically com-
SOLDIER.
petent —so much so that a 15-minute
dramatisation of his experiences will
shortly be broadcast by U.N. Radio (at
Lake Success) over a world-wide network,
in the series “Citizens of the World.”
Prior is the first Australian to be honored
in this regard. A Duntroon graduate,
solidly built, concise in speech and actions,
he was born at Boorowa (N.S.W.), Mark
1895.
The dapper dial here Coventrated
houses the cheerful personality of Arnold
Meredith Moulden, president of the Law
Society of South Australia. Law was a
natural leaning for Moulden, the firm
which bears his name being one of the
oldest in the State, established one year
over a century ago. Now the senior
partner, he graduated LL.B. from
Adelaide University, was admitted to the
LAWYER.
S. Australian Bar in 1914, and a few
months afterwards was admitted to the
ranks of those defending World against
Wilhelm, with 0.8. E. and two
“mentions” from that action. On
Adelaide’s City Council for 17 years from
1932, he’s directorially concerned with
half a dozen companies, whose interests
range from commercial-flying to beer-
brewing. On the lee-side of 60.
Over 30 years’ service with the National
Bank had a fitting climax when
G. C. Hill stepped up to the chief-
managership, made vacant by Sir Leslie
McConnan’s retirement. Forty-seven, the
new head began his banking in the Mel-
bourne office, enlarged his know-how dur-
ing a period attached to head-office
administration, and in 1933 shifted north
to Brisbane. He was Edward-street
branch-manager by the time Melbourne
office called him back to be chief-
manager’s secretary. From then on
the climb was steady—sub-manager
of the London office after War 11, State
manager in N.S.W. on return, and, for
the past 17 months, deputy to his present
post. Another appointment takes J. L.
Nave (who joined two years after his new
chief) up to senior chief-inspector.
Slogan-maker Harold Clapp was
present at the launching on the Sydney-
Melbourne track of Victoria’s new 100-
ton diesel-electric locomotive —it has his
name in gold-lettering on its bonnet, and
makes his own one-time pet, the Spirit of
Progress, look like a kid’s toy. Sir Harold
is 77. It is 60 years since he started *as
an apprentice with the Austral Otis Com-
pany in Melbourne. He learned all about
speed and the like when he worked
on the electrification of the suburban rail-
ways of Oakland, Alameda and Berkeley,
in the U.S. —also about slogan-making.
His masterly electrification of the Mel-
bourne suburban system was accompanied
by a spate of slogans, and the habit
still persists, though the slogans have lost
their fire and vigor, being now mainly
concerned with telling sardines that more
of them could get into a tin if they showed
more consideration for one another.
Taking over command of the Bth
Brigade from Major-General Ivan
Dougherty (B. 9/7/’52), Brigadier
Geoffrey Cox recently had the 45th Bat-
talion (St. George Regiment, N.S.W.)
A sergeant in the Coastal Artillery when
Hitler marched, Cox promptly enlisted
as a private An the 2/2 Battalion and
sailed Middle Eastwards in the first con-
voy. Wounded in North Africa, he was
on his legs again for the Greece campaign,
did solid work with a small ship evacuat-
ing nurses and troops, and not long after-
wards found himself in New Guinea,
adjutant of the 2/1 Battalion. A nifty
piece of patrol-work on the Owen
Stanleys brought him M.C. Still in New
Guinea in 1945, by this time lieut.-colonei
in command of the 2/4 Battalion, he won
an immediate award of the D.S.O. for
his unit’s showing in the capture of
Wewak, Command of the 45th Battalion,
St. George Regiment, came in 1949 —he
raising sufficient funds to clothe his bat-
talion in the ceremonial scarlet uniform,
complete with goat, of the Welsh Regi-
ment, with which the St. George is honor-
ably affiliated. Last year Cox had a
month in Malaya, observing how the
British Army goes about fighting Com-
munist terrorists. When not soldiering he
partners an estate-agency firm at Sydney’s
Bondi Junction.
“M.G.”: A tragic aftermath of the Vic-
torian floods was the death of Bernard
J. Spaull, a councillor of the shire which
includes the Dargo High Plains. He was
born on his property, Hawkhurst, on the
Wonnarigatta River, when the only com-
munication with civilisation was a pack-
horse trail. For half a century he
harbored the dream of a great scenic high-
way through the Wonnangatta Valley,
opening up vast areas of rich land for
more settlers. When the waters roared
down and washed away the suspension-
bridge, Spaull set out in wild weather
with his tractor to build a new one. He
did not return. Flood over the road
he had fought for had claimed him and
his tractor.
Continuing an important and mainly
unpublicised surveying job, Squadron-
Leader Claude Browne and his Mosquito-
borne men of No. 87 Squadron are now
putting western Queensland under the
magnifying eye of their reconnaissance
cameras. Since June this.year Browne’s
Mosquitoes have been swarming over
the Gulf and Cloncurry country,
systematically mapping in long legs of
flying, and reaching out to take in the
Rum Jungle field in the Territory.
Recently Browne detached a third of his
squadron to map the islands of Fiji for
the Fijian Government.
While Browne’s cameras look down
from 25,000 ft., John Cody, captain of
survey-frigate Barcoo, also off Queens-
land, has been shafting sonic fingers down
to the gullies of the sea-bottom. Having
just put on the map the sea-floor off Pine
Island (where the Palana grounded last
year), Cody is on his way to Darwin. A
fathom or so of genial bulk, a good
small-ship man, inevitably “Bill” to all
hands, Cody has been surveying pretty
well all his 20 years of service life, round
New Guinea and the Philippines in the
recent scrap, and painstakingly sounding
Yampi Sound after it.
Into the Silence:
At Orange (N.S.W.), at 76, Sydney Shepherd,
0.8. - Hailing from Kybybohte (S.A.), he
received his award for his work as a leading
agriculturalist in the State, and was the first
to introduce superphosphates and subterranean-
clover into its south-east portion. He died
while touring N.S.W. with a merino-breeders
party from S. Australia.
In Melbourne, at 76, Val Morgan, whose
name was as well known to cinemagoers as
Clark Gable’s. It appears on the millions of
slides that are thrown on the screen of most
Australian theatres from the largest theatrical-
advertising agency in the country. Morgan
started by selling space in Melbourne football-
records.
In Perth, at 82, Sir Francis Theodore Boys,
who was knighted in recognition of services with
Britain’s Ministry of Food in the Kaiser’s war.
A director of a refrigeration company in New
Zealand from 1923 to 1933, and a commissioner
of the Waimakariri River Trust from 1927 to
1933, he became chairman of the British Food
Ministry’s committee on abbatoir design and,
later, of the Ministry’s cattle-committee.
Throughout the recent war, and till his retire-
ment in 1949, he was a director of meat and
livestock of the British Food Ministry.
In Tokyo, Colin P. Miller, commodore of the
China Navigation Company and master of the
Changsha since he brought the Australia-Japan
liner to Australia on her maiden voyage from
Britain in 1949. Many War II Diggers will
remember him—master of several troopships,
he had the Anshun when she was bombed to
the bottom of Milne Bay shortly after landing
her troops.


RAINBOW.
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
COSTS LESS TODAY THAN OTHER MAKES
DID IN 1946
THESE FIGURES
ARE BASED ON
A SPRAY LINE
WHICH COVERS
IV2 ACRES WITH
1 INCH OF RAIN
IN ONE HOUR
msSßmzzSsim other makes
PW’Fpp f
GALVANISED SPRAY LINE
1946
1952
RAINBOW
SYSTEM
GALVANISED SPRAY LINE
I I I I I 1
1952
ALUMINIUM SPRAY LINE
I I I L-U
Moo
£3OO
POWERFUL SPRAY HEADS
ẅ
Throw a fine
spray over an
area 48 ft. square,
or a heavy spray
up to 72 ft.
square.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS GIVE
BENDS OF BETTER THAN 25°
w
Worked on a ball
and socket prin-
ciple, this coup-
ling provides a
positive, water-
tight joint in any
direction better
than 25°.
COMBINED OUTLET AND
HYDRANT
Costs the same as
ordinary outlet,
but does the work
of hydrant too.
Simple to operate.
ŵ
STURDY ANGLE
IRON STANDS
Two welded
stands support
each 24 ft. sec-
tion. Absence of
crossbars stops
interference to
vegetation.
r a '
ẁ
r gn 4PW v V BSP &I€C t V t C^) m ■ g %m
RE I LAX spray pamt umt
a portable pressure gun unit for
ALL PAI NTS— for home, garage,
or factory!
Has only 2 moving parts!
Maximum pressure 30 lbs.
with American type dia-
phragm compressor, fan
nozzle for large
areas, spotting
nozzle for smaller
work, and
angle type ;
nozzle for
ceilings.
r&P.
a «
m
Also available
as petrol model
or 32 V. and 100 V. D.C. models for
lighting sets.
MANUFACTURED BY:
Simpson Agencies Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE, VIO.
Topp & Farmer,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
W. H. Evans Pty. Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.
. W. EARN SHAW PTY. LT
189-195 Pacific Highway, North Sydney-’Phone X8395C
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Failing Fine Wools.
“R.N.”: The steadily increas-
ing proportion of inferior cross-
bred wool offered at auction
largely accounts for the dwindl-
ing earnings from Australia’s
wool-clip, according to Mac
Falkiner, president of the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Associa-
tion,
Australia’s wool-cheque last
year was more than halved on
the previous year’s. Average of
greasy and scoured wool
dropped from 15Id. to 73d. a
pound. Victorian wool authori-
ties estimate that inferior cross-
bred wool represents a reduc-
tion in national wool-income of
about £10,000,000 a year.
Analysing loss of quality in
the Australian wool-clip, the
“Wool Digest” estimates Aus-
tralia’s wool-clip today as
2.500.000 bales of Merino and
900.000 bales of crossbred.
Quoting Melbourne authorities,
it points out that in the past 10
years breeders of crossbred sheep
have raised their contribution to
the clip by from 20 per cent, to
26 per cent., and the trend is
continuing.
“Since Australia produces
about half of the world’s total
of Merino wool, this tendency is
alarming,” says the paper. It
adds: “It is admitted that much
of the crossbred wool fills a valu-
able demand for wool-apparel
requirements, but more and more
coming on the auction floors
falls into the category of
‘nondescript rubbish’.”
Falkiner’s association sees in
this an argument for lifting the
Merino export embargo, on the
ground that breeders, with a
world market open for their
rams, would increase their
numbers of fine-wool rams and
so make more available for Aus-
tralian sheepmen.
Which suggests that Merino
men are now short of the fine-
wool rams, which may or may
not be true. There is, too, the
possibility that in recent years,
when any sort of wool brought
high prices, too many wool-
growers were content with any
sort of rams —and ewes. There
was clear evidence of this at the
Sydney sheep show in June.
On Beef Shorthorns.
“Frank H.”: From Brunette
Downs (N.T.), the Gulf Cattle
Co, station hit by drought, big
mobs of Shorthorn weaners
went to the Queensland railhead
of Dajarra, whence they were
distributed to fattening stations
for early marketing. This had
the advantage of relieving the
dams at Brunette at a time when
the station required all the
water and feed it could find.
Three-thousand three-year-old
steers were evacuated from
Brunette Downs during June
over the only outlet available, via
Camooweal and Dajarra, and
were eagerly sought in areas
where feed is again growing
abundantly following drought-
breaking rains. Shorthorns are
usually the “first away” when
pastures return. \
William Short, of Melrose,
Mudgee (N.S.W.), bought from
the Pinaroo Shorthorn stud,
Ulamambri, a foundation herd
comprising a stud bull and seven
stud females. Melrose has a
frontage to the Cudgegong
River and first-class lucerne
flats and is in excellent lime-
stone country, ideal for breed-
ing cattle. As his foundation
sire, Short selected the five-year-
old bull Pinaroo Kotick, a son
of Kaluga Mandrake, from
Namoi Bess, The bull is a
heavily-fleshed typical Short-
horn, with a rich creamy-white
coat and grand outlook, and
he measures well all over.
A draft of 250 medium-to-
heavy Shorthorn bullocks at
Townsville last month sold to
£42, for an overall average of
£39 9s.
At Tantallon, near Orange
(N.S.W.), Tom Hood is produc-
ing beef and lambs on improved
pastures of clover and rye.
Throughout the Orange, Molong,
Cowra, Grenfell and Young
districts the combination of beef-
and lamb-production is becom-
ing general.
Milking-breed heifers, when
mated with Beef Shorthorn bulls,
produce vealers of exceptional
quality, in which hybrid vigor
shows out.
Tractor Care.
“D.J.H.”: Watch the crank-
case ventilator on the tractor —
one of the most neglected parts.
When the engine is working,
“Cut it out, Nancy ; I Want to get on with me Work .”
vapors of combustion get by the
pistons and rings and then into
the crankcase.
If the engine is in bad order
more combustion vapor accumu-
lates, and should the ventilator
be clogged the pressure in the
crankcase increases and forces
the oil out through the gaskets
and bearings. So if the tractor
is eating oil examine the
ventilator.
N.S.W. Honey Board.
“Inver”: Shortly, unless pre-
vailing good markets cause a
slump in interest, N.S.W. honey-
producers are to vote on whether
or not they want a honey-
marketing board. Back in ’49,
when overseas and home markets
were glutted, the desire for
organised selling was universal
among producers. Those favor-
ing a board should have gone for
it then.
They didn’t, honey is in
demand again, and the producer
is happy with things as they are.
Principal deterrent to the
thoughtful producer is the
example set by the hundred and
one boards which come and go
with but one fairly general result
—the commodity becomes scarce
and dear and producers go out
of business. Boards have a
tendency to be housed in marble,
with a retinue of departments
and sub-departments so lengthy
that the original policy and
reason for existence (to exploit
all markets and protect the pro-
ducer) is sidetracked into bigger
and better edifices, with the
accompanying servants, all at the
expense of the particular industry
so afflicted.
When it comes to the vote,
probably honey-men will reject
the scheme. A worth-while sub-
stitute would be to impose a
levy on producers to pay for a
home-advertising scheme and
the expenses and salaries of two
or three wide-awake salesmen,
preferably honey-men.
Calcium.
“Mr.”: Calcium phosphate,
the bone-builder, is essential in
the diet of growing stock and
breeding and milking animals.
The best way to supply it is by
liberally topdressing pastures
with super., in which form it is
most readily assimilated.
Meatmeal is rich in calcium
phosphate, and when animals
receive it as a protein supple-
ment, they will get their full
requirements. Grains and most
of the concentrates made from
them are deficient in the mineral,
and cereal-fed stock not on top-
dressed pasture need a lick as
follows: For every 1001 b. of
grain or concentrate fed to
horses, cattle, sheep and pigs
add 31b. of a mixture —four parts
of ground limestone, chalk or
slaked lime and one part of salt.
Poultry get their lime in the
shellgrit. The salt, |lb. to lib.,
is added to each 1001 b, of mash.
Scholarships.
“C.S.”: Two Nuffield Founda-
tion travelling scholarships are
offered to progressive Australian
farmers to spend not less than
six months in the United
Kingdom.
The foundation will meet the
travelling expenses of the scholar
(by air if necessary), make him a
living allowance, and, if neces-
sary, help in looking after his
farm while he is away. It
arranges the itinerary in the
United Kingdom. Candidates
may be male or female, should
be over 25 but not much over
35 years of age. Full particulars
from Miss N. Rennie, acting-
secretary, C/o Vice-Chancellor's
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
A very fine group of spots appeared in the southern
sunspot track in mid-July, and the cyclical rains of July
appeared, as duly announced in these reports. This
establishes the individual weather character of July, 1952.
Individual character is one of the essentials in the study of
weather cycles. The present working of the Bruckner cycle
has brought it, in general terms, to what it was in 1916,
though not quite the same. The cycle is slightly unstable,
but as long as it maintains its control the season should be
a very good one.


"Phenovis” Worm Remedy
y~\
%
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
w
PHB.BX.BO
Accepted as Australia 9 s OLD whisky!
CORIO
SPECIAL
aged full 5 years in the wood
ŵ
ẁ
The championship whisky
was a Corio Distillery
product. Keen judges of
whisky everywhere appre-
ciate the maturity and
mellowness of Corio
those special qualities
that only age can bring.
Every drop of Corio
Special—Australia’s OLD
whisky is aged in oak
casks for at least five
years, nearly three
times the period required
by Commonwealth Law.
So look for the word
“OLD” on the label of
every bottle of Corio
Special; it is your pro-
tection.
V :
1,/*
(crkrlfpedal
foiD
"“"WS 'flirt ftTtnrpfln
when you buy insist on the whisky
of outstanding merit
CORIO SPECIAL
ẃ
Old Whisky
A,
usfra,i °-* o Ld
C3B/I6
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
ẅ
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
w
NO
EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY.LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building.
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services. . ,
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place.
ŵ
ẁ
who gives bite for bite,
A dog who seldom barks at night,
Who comes when called and goes
when told.
Is more than worth his weight in
gold.
The remedy for coughs and chills,
That every expectation fills.
Must be efficient, fresh and pure,
And that is
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
~Ufluman
ISLAND
TARIFF REDUCED FROM £4 / 4 / - TO
12-2-0
PER DAY
Built to attract holiday-makers
from every corner of the earth,
Hayman Island proved to be
LUXURY AHEAD OF ITS
TIME. This original policy
could not be continued without
Government assistance and the
support of overseas visitors, and
it has now been abandoned.
The island is now out to capture
the Australian tourist patron-
age. The new low tariff
operating from August 16 will
bring the island within the
reach of all.
INTERNATIONAL PLAYGROUND.—
All features which made Hayman a
holiday-makers’ paradise will be re-
tained—unique lodge accommodation,
swimming pool, tropical garden set-
tings, dancing, picture shows, indoor
games. Swimming, cruising, aqua-
planing, game fishing and the marvels
of the Barrier Reef are virtually at your
lodge door.
EVERYONE CAN AFFORD the finest
holiday under the sun. Nowhere else
in Australia will you find such
facilities for fun, so superior accom-
modation at £2/2/- a day.
Book Now!
ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE
360 Collins St., Melbourne, MU 6921; 129 Phillip St., Sydney,
BW 2921; and Queensland Tourist Bureaux.
Office, University of Melbourne,
Carlton, N. 3, Victoria.
Leg-louse of Sheep.
“McLeod”; The young lice
start egg-laying when about 12
days old, and the eggs hatch in
10 to 18 days. The danger is
that most infestations are slight,
the incidence being on an
average between 2 per cent, and
3 per cent., but if this is over-
looked the whole flock could be
affected. Very close examina-
tion of each sheep is necessary.
Victorian Department of
Agriculture recommends at least
two treatments at intervals of 10
to 14 days, the sheep remaining
in the bath for five minutes to
ensure effectiveness. Unless
body-lice are present complete
immersion is unnecessary.
As the foot-louse is resistant
to arsenical and carbolic dips, the
recognised dips containing derris
or rotenone should be used.
Foot-lice come under the Vic-
torian Stock Diseases Act, and
affected flocks must be reported.
Speculation in Farms.
“W.C.Q.”: I don’t condemn
the use of sulphate of ammonia
as a stimulant for ratoon crops
of cane (B. 18/6/’52). As a
canegrower I know it to be
absolutely necessary, even on
farms where green-manuring
crops are grown regularly. But
I do condemn its overuse —the
usual object being to convey a
totally false impression.
There are New and Old Aus-
tralians after farms today who
have absolutely no idea of cane-
growing. It is surely somebody’s
duty to counsel these newcomers
on the pitfalls around them.
Unless advised by practical men,
many will waste their money on
ancient tractors and other worn-
out equipment and end up
embittered and discouraged,
If the Cane Prices Board
decides that an excessive price
is being asked for a farm the
farm is not “passed.” Negotia-
tions may then go on to sell the
farm at a price approved by
the board. If the buyer is really
keen and inexperienced, what is
to prevent an unscrupulous seller
arranging for the buyer to pay
him the board’s approved price
—and a bit more on the quiet?
As for hilly land, .low-lying
land, etc., being poor farming
land for new men, I heartily
agree, but where else may the
new blokes go? In most cases
they have not the necessary cash
to buy up the best farmland.
Hints for the Farm.
“Silentio”: To corn meat, take
61b. of coarse salt, 21b. of soft
sugar, 2 teaspoons of powdered
saltpetre and 2 teaspoons of
carb. soda. Blend and rub it
well into the trimmed joints.
Place the meat in a keg, sprinkle
the rest of the mixture over the
top and leave for three days.
Then lift out and drain. Boil
the brine pickle, strain off the
scum, cool and pour over the
meat again.
“Otnim”; African veld-grass
(Ehrharta calycina ) is making
excellent winter forage in West
Australia. Combined with sub-
terranean clover, it provides
good all-the-year grazing.
“Tyabb”: It saves time to
know the length of an axe, saw,
crowbar, spade, etc. Also to
have them marked off in feet.
Learn the length of your boot,
of your average stride, of your
hand-span. It’s useful when
confronted with a measuring job
and there’s no rule or tape
handy.
“My”: To check disintegra-
tion of concrete give it three
applications of silicate of soda
(waterglass) as it is setting. Mix
Igal. of silicate of soda with
4gal. of water and spray it on
the concrete just as it is about to
set. Give two more dressings at
intervals of 24 hours.
“Baroona”: In dry areas bees
cluster round household taps in
search of water. If you’ve a hive
or two keep a box of sand wet
near the hives. This makes a
safe drinking-place for the bees
and they will prefer it to distant
supplies.


*ar,
’l*
% \
'■ /
ac i
I :.' I.
W//<
A Vacuum
lighter than air
BRESCIA
REAT INTEREST has been aroused by the publication
of a scientific treatise by the Jesuit Fancesco de Lana.
The author, well known for experiments on determining
the weight of air, speculates on the use of aircraft for
transport and military purposes. He describes his con-
ception of an aerial ship, supported by four evacuated globes
and propelled by sails or oars.
“The principle,” affirms de Lana, “is sound enough. The
ship is bound to rise from the ground. And what other
means of propulsion is practicable? As soon as you invent a
machine you need proper fuelling arrangements, and so far no
one has even thought of the BP Aviation Service. But I
expect they will; and a very good fuelling service it will
be, as everyone will know.”
w
ŵ
AVIATION
ẁ
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
An associate of Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, Limited, London.
DON’T BE AS
COLD as a FROG
IN YOUR OWN HOME THIS WINTER
/
/
-
/
/
/
/
INSULATE
S ULP& r
w
YOUR HOME WITH
SLAGWOOL
No need to shiver this winter —
insulate with 8.1. Slagwool . • .
keeps your home cosy, warm
and draught-free! Saves fuel,
too!
Send to your local Bradford Home Insulation office for free
Booklet and complete information telling you why and how
you should insulate your home with 8.1. Home Insulation.
N.8.W. ; Bradford Insulation
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
66 Reservoir Street, Sydney
NEWCASTLE: Bradford In-
sulation (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
Clyde Street, Hamilton
VICTORIA; Bradford Insula-
tion (Victoria) Pty. Ltd.
422 Collins St., Melbourne. C.l
8.1.41
QUEENSLAND: Bradford In-
sulation (Q’land) Pty. Ltd.
87 Eagle Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (S.A.) Ltd.
Shell House, North Terrace.
Adelaide .
WEST AUST.: Bradford
Insulation (W.A.) Ltd.
10 Elizabeth Street, Fremantle
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
* A *
“Bachelor, ex-U.S.N., like small
house or half.”— Suburban paper.
Any quarters will do.
•F 4*
“Set golf clubs, three woods, nine
irons, bag, .22 Lithgow repeating
rifle, new,” — Suburban paper.
Crows or suicide?
“Marathon-runner Jim Peters, 34,
who ran the fastest 26 miles ever
(2hrs. 20min. 42.25ec.), does it on
bread and potatoes, with half a pint
of milk or orange-juice every night.”
He makes a little go a long
way.
•j. 4.
“The money a man spends on
giving his wife an occasional night
out should be deducted from his
income-tax.” — Economist-lecturer.
If that were done nightclubs
would be trumps.
•3* *l* *3*
“Husbands are the toughest cases a
maternity nurse has to handle.”
—Sunday paper.
Their wives’ ordeal is more
than they can bear.
»F 4* *3*
“For sale, sheep, young weather,
good lawnmower.” — Suburban paper.
Quite a change from the usual
sort.
•3* 4* 4*
“For years we have thought too
much of the criminal and not enough
of the victim.”
— Goddard, C.J. of Britain.
Paradoxically, if we had lash-
ings of criminals we’d have very
few.
The Burning Question.
When times are hard and skies
are grey
And fortune coyly hides away
I feel inclined to write a spate
Of verses to express my grieving
That paying more than I’m
receiving
Condemns me to a debtor’s fate.
I think that 1 am pushed around.
And yet this line of thought’s
unsound;
For I am free compared with
those
Who wage a ceaseless war
resisting
(As Mehzies must ) the crowd
insisting
On hearings for their tales of
woes.
Such jackals fill me with disgust.
Their motives scarcely merit
trust;
But when my flickering gas-flame
droops
And even balks at boiling water,
Aroused and in the mood for
slaughter
I see the need for PRESSURE-
groups.
D. H. E.
“Depravda” Covers the
Games.
“The first and the deepest
impression made upon our brave
Soviet athletes was the striking
difference between the perfect
conditions under which they
were able to enjoy training in
their camp at Helsinki, and those
of the slave representatives of
the capitalistic warmongering
countries of the West.
“Those who have 'the proud
privilege of upholding the
unchallengeable athletic
superiority of the U.S.S.R. had
complete freedom, once they had
finished their daily two-hour
party-indoctrination lectures by
the camp’s political commissar,
to move about wherever they
liked inside their barbed-wire
compound, so long as they didn’t
approach within 12ft. of any exit
gate or any armed guard.
“Many were the genuine
exclamations of pity made by
our own uninhibited represen-
tatives for the Western athletes,
who at night could only fill in
their time by going to the
movies, to a dance or to some
other of those forms of alleged
enjoyment which reflect so well
the decadence of capitalism.
How different from our own
happy athletes, who were given
the sparkling entertainment of
listening nightly to talks by the
camp Economics Commissar on
the coming great depression in
America, which will mean the
complete ruin of the capitalistic
system throughout the world,
and the consequent fully Com-
munised world in which all
peoples will gladly yield to
Moscow not only the allegiance
which is our glorious right, but
gratitude for having delivered
them from the heavy yoke of the
criminal plutocratic exploiters!
“Our Soviet contingent faced
the first day of the Games com-
plete except for the traitor Ivan
Ivanoyitch, the middle-distance
hurdler, who was shot for
Titoist-Deviationism —he was
caught speaking through the
barbed-wire to a Canadian
athlete, whom he lyingly told
that Soviet citizens couldn’t buy
cigarette-lighters and electric-
razors ; and Serge Shrinkoff, the
pole-vaulter, who was sent to a
northern Siberian political-
correction camp for using a
Western grip on his pole while
practising.
“After the 220yds. hurdles event
the Soviet authorities became
suspicious because not one of
our representatives had gained a
place. Inquiries were begun,
which led to sensational and
scandalous disclosures. The
Soviet has positive proof that,
fearful of the obvious superiority
of the team from the U.S.S.R.,
the unscrupulous Western con-
tenders had supplied the starter
of the race with special germ-
filled cartridges for his pistol.
When it was fired into the
air these germs were released, to
descend on the competitors.
Apparently the Western athletes
had been inoculated against the
germs, which have the effect of
slowing-up muscular action. The
Soviet athletes were, of course,
the only ones affected, thus
accounting for their failure to
take the title.
“Proof of the use of these
germs is undeniable, for a team
of famous Soviet scientists took
photos with special American
high-speed cameras of some of
the germs, which they
immediately recognised as being
a species seen only in the
Western world. So that the
inevitable counter-charge that the
story Was a Soviet fabrication
would be nailed, a celebrated
North Korean scientist (whose
name is not being divulged in
case his family are bombed in
revenge by the barbarous
Americans), and an Albanian
scientist, each of whom, as all
the world knows, would give a
perfectly unbiased opinion, fully
confirmed the Soviet scientists’
findings. Not only did they
see and recognise these germs,
but gained further damning
evidence by securing photos of
the starter’s pistol. Photos of
both the germs, which enlarged
resemble praying-mantises with
their forelegs shorn off, and of
the pistol are being sent to the
Dean of Canterbury in England
and Dr. Burton in Australia, who
as fearless seekers after the truth
can be depended on to give this
dastardly crime the widest
publicity.
“That there is no depth to
which the Western plutocracies
will not sink even in the other-
wise pure atmosphere of interna-
tional athletics was given further
proof when the Soviet’s star
broad - jump representative,
Mullya Takoff, found just before
he was due to jump that he had
developed an ingrowing toenail.
There had been no sign of the
disability when he went out that
morning. The fact that he could
only be placed sixth in the pre-
liminary jump immediately
aroused suspicion, and our
secret police made immediate
search in the neighborhood.
Several germs were found, one
a new one to Soviet scientists.
They have now discovered it to
be a bacillus of American origin,
and this apparently was surrepti-
tiously sprayed on Takoff’s toe
by a Western official when his
attention was momentarily
diverted.
“The germ causes the toenail
immediately to turn inwards.
Two Czech and two Polish
scientists confirmed the existence
of the germ. A photo of a spray-
gun found three days later near
the camp adds the final proof of
the West’s unscrupulbusness. No
wonder Soviet athletes can’t win
a title!”
Bo.
Three’s Good Fishing.
You may, if you are lucky, find
the angel in your wife,
Or stumble on a fiver on the
footpath near your gate.
You could, in time, resolve the
fundamental truths of life
And even buy four cards and
find you've got an ace-
high straight.
You possibly might raise a plant
that feeds upon a grub,
Or come, one day, upon one
losing bookie in a group,
But, though you dine each day
for years in restaurant or
pub,
You’ll never find FOUR
oysters in a plate of
oyster-soup!
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Down the Drain
“AJ.A.’s” growl about taxation (B.
11/6/’52) should be directed at the over-
flowing Commonwealth Government
departments.
On Manus Island, for instance, where
a forward defence base is allegedly being
built, there are 200 Works and Housing
employees each being paid an average of
£2O per week for doing precious littb.
That means that “AJ.A.’s” taxation for a
year from hard work (£5904) would pay
these men for one week, plus a “little
extra” for overhead.
Wages for one year for these “over-
worked” employees gobble up the taxes
of at least 35 “A.J.A.s” striving at their
small businesses to foot the bill each
year. And these Works and Housing
employees are exempt from income tax!
—Saxon (Manus).
Seal of Quality
Another American idea we may well
adopt (B. 16/7/’52) is a consumer-protec-
tion bureau, preferably under Federal
control. Such an institution could test all
consumer goods and, if satisfied, endorse
them officially. The advertiser could
then display his wares bearing the seal
of approval, and both the public and the
good craftsman would be protected and
well served. The shoddy manufacturer
would be forced to mend his ways or lose
business.
A further privilege for the efficient
would be the restriction of time-payment
facilities to products bearing the seal of
tested quality. All other goods should be
sold only for cash.
Those who would squeal at such regu-
lations would not matter, anyway They
would automatically brand themselves as
money-grabbers or indiscriminate
spenders.—l. G. (S.A.).
Capital Punishment
Capital crime since the war has in-
creased enormously in all States except
W.A. —significantly, the West and S.A, are
the only States where the gallows still
stand as the lawful dissuasion and almost
certain retribution of potential killers.
Many brutal and premeditated killings
in N. S. Wales during the past year or
so make one wonder if the prospect of
imprisonment for life is sufficient deter-
rent to the type of craven hoodlum who
coldbloodedly commits crimes of violence
for the sake of a few pounds or even
shillings. During the long recorded
history of crime and criminals it has been
proved time and again that a marked
lull between murders invariably follows
the publicised execution of a murderer.
Sentimentalists and reformers notwith-
standing, punishment to fit the crime has
always been the best deterrent. Capital
punishment, properly and lawfully in-
flicted, has never been the retrogression or
barbarity squeamish minds would have us
believe; it has been incorporated in the
codes of both civilised and uncivilised
races since the beginnings of time.
Today, in most of Australia, its threat
to thugs, garroters and the like has be-
come a farce or dead-letter —“Labor”
policy forbids it while Liberal regimes
rarely sanction it. Even should execution
be not revived as the hard-and-fast penalty
for killing, a proviso restoring Jack Ketch
as the avenger of murder in cases where
the jury makes no recommendation of
mercy would act like magic on irrespon-
sibles and cowards who imperil the lives
of others. —P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Port Phillip Bay
Lamenting the passing of the last of
the old paddle-wheel excursion steamers,
an “Old Bay Tripper” wrote to Mel-
bourne “Age” that it was one of the
great anomalies of the time that a city
of a million and a half people could have
at its very doorstep a noble sheet of water
40 miles across —one of the finest areas
of enclosed salt water in the world—and
yet be without facilities for pleasure
travel on it,
A greater anomaly is that, apart from
the mouth of the Yarra, the noble sheet
of water hasn’t a decent harbor. Had
the sheet been in Europe there would
have been dozens of them. All around
the rocky coasts of Cornwall, Devon and
other counties, with their deep and stormy
water, there are small stone harbors
ercere
crammed with fishing-boats and traders,
most of them built, no doubt, back in the
days of Shakspeare.
There is not one on Port Phillip. Lots
of the early settlers came from those
counties, and it is one of the mysteries
of Victorian history that they didn’t start
copying their forefathers in the new land,
especially as good roads were con-
spicuously absent. Had they done so
the noble sheet would now be a much
more pleasant place than the barren,
exposed thing it is. The harbors
would be shallower than those in
England, and that would have led to the
development of a shallow-draught type
of boat, but "one which could carry far
cheaper the cargo and traffic that now
gets dragged along the expensive and con-
gested highways.
A belated start has been made by the
Government at Sandringham, where a
breakwater of huge blocks of stone is
being pushed seawards and is already
affording shelter to boats of all descrip-
tions, but bayside council effort, using the
spoil from excavations, would in a few
years bring the scores of towns and
suburbs stringed about the big bay within
easy reach of the big city. Then Port
Phillip Bay would cease to be a waste of
good water. — Bumpkin (Vic.).
Prices
L. S. Loewenthal (B. 9/7/’52) can’t
make me retract the statement that
higher prices will not necessarily cause
an increase in farm-production, but that
a cut in prices might well bring it about.
I’m all for the farmer receiving a
decent living and being able to put a bit
by to meet drought, fire and flood, and
I believe the efficient ones on decent
properties have been doing that.
The dairyfarmer on a decent property,
with good cows and milking-machines,
was managing well before the recent
increase of one shilling a pound in the
price of butter. His share of that
increase, even on bis normal production,
will put him in a higher taxation group
and leave him little better off. Where,
then, is the inducement for him to pro-
duce more?
It isn’t only higher incomes for the
farmer that we want; it’s greater butter-
production for the home and overseas
market. The cheaper we can produce
that butter, consistent with a fair return
for the efficient farmer, the better for all
concerned. What will it avail us to be
able to point to a greatly-increased income
from butter unless that income is based
largely on increased production?—M. F.
Dixon (N.S.W.).
Blackouts
Cowra’s blackout troubles (B. 4/7/’52)
are nothing to those of three other N.S.W.
towns, Henty, Culcairn and Walla Walla,
which, until All Fool’s Day of this year,
enjoyed a continuous and adequate
supply of electricity from local diesel
generating-stations operated by franchise-
holders. On March 31 the franchises
expired and the Southern Riverina
County Council took steps to ensure that
private enterprise would in no circum-
stances be allowed to show up the State
blackout system any longer.
The reticulations were acquired under
a “shotgun” settlement, and 400 k.v.a.
of efficient and adequate power-plant is
locked up and idle while the unfortunate
consumers now share in the State-wide
benefits of the great bureaucratic black-
out system. Already it is possible that
the only secondary industry in one of the
towns will have to shut-up shop because
of the impossibility of continuous opera-
tion —it originally left a capital city in
order to get a continuous supply of elec-
tricity.
Only the bureaucrats could have con-
ceived the idea of transferring this elec-
trical loading from fully-efficient and
self-contained generating-plants to the
already-overloaded grid and making those
who had had plenty share in the general
starvation. — Candle (S.A.).
The Freelance
Few who make their living with the
pen, particularly in the freelance school,
can have read Harold Mercer’s self-
written obituary (B. 25/6/’52) without
realising that the way of the freelance in
Australia is at best bitter-sweet, at worst
damned hard,
Mercer, like Will Lawson in his verse
the “Inky Way,” expresses his satisfac-
tion with the bargain, even though it
meant he had to work in industry towards
the end of his life to support himself.
Too many men of genius in Australian
literature have ended on the financial
scrapheap. No doubt Grub-street is a
worth-while thoroughfare for the aspiring
writer, its very poverty spurring him to
effort, but it’s a bad address for those
who have spent a lifetime in the game,
and have left the record of their creative
years behind them. There is no need to
mention names —they are well-known to
those in the game.
The answer does not lie in such make-
shifts as the Commonwealth Literary
Fund, well-intentioned though that may
be, but in the very urgent need for a
renaissance of Australian nationalism,
especially in the arts.
Few publications devote their pages to
the work of native writers, but the fault
lies not so much with publishers as with
readers, who seem prepared to accept
pulp-quality magazine material from
overseas.
It hasn’t always been so. A reference
to magazine files of the ’twenties discloses
an entirely different position, while the
bookstall series in those days provided
a publishing channel for the works of
such writers as Ernest O’Ferrall, Harry
McDuffie, Arthur Adams, Randolph
Bedford, Arthur Wright and scores of
others who will be remembered by readers
who lived at that time.
Now, most publications, with the
exception of The Bulletin and a few
others, are filled mostly with syndicated
material from abroad. Lartuen
(N.S.W.).
Payment by Results
“W.P.T.” (B. 25/6/’52) asks why a boy
with a Leaving Certificate should start in
a Government office with a higher salary
than a boy who has failed in his exam.;
or, alternatively, why a dunce should be
paid less than a bright scholar.
The answer is obvious. The office is
buying brains, and is willing to bid more
for a set of proved higher quality than
for a set that is only f.a.q. During the
first year neither of the boys may do
much more than stamp-licking, but the
smart one will presumably learn more
about office routine and require less
coaching from the seniors than the dull
fellow, and the disparity will increase
with each succeeding year.
The possession of the certificate is a
proof of energy, ambition and mental
ability. Otherwise the exam, is a vain
thing, and swotting for it a waste of time.
Promotion would be by seniority, regard-
less of merit. Ultimately chartered ac-
countants would be bossed by, and paid
less than, office managers who count on
their fingers.— Jock (S.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 183
Across.
I—Marsupial and I separate the
orchestra and the simpleton. (9)
s—Girl is made of money—but not
much. (5)
8— Blue Mountains resort is changed
as a rule. (5)
9 Quack to carbonise the French
sunburn. (9)
11 — Sister and wife of Zeus mentions
that woman’s indefinite article.
(4)
12— might be like this when not a
capital girl and boy. (6)
15— The German hideout. (3)
16— Cipher to kiss an ofiicial sys-
tematisation of church legislation.
(5)
17 — A slab is turned for the “Kon
Tiki” timbers. (5)
18— Extra theatrical fertiliser in the
purse. (5)
19— Lie about a substance of thread-
like tissue. (5)
21 — Negative. (3)
22 — Count in his wife, and introduce
the late King to a fish balancer.
(6)
23 Little boy is the usual and stan-
dard thing. (4)
27 — A funny man and the no-hopers
who drove the pioneer vans? (9)
28 — Wandering coming back with the
water-store on Runyon. (5)
29 — Negro confused this no-hoper. (5)
30 — Yellowness of angel’s food cooked
by Noel with firm conflict and
game cubes. (9)
Down.
1 — Somewhat more hairless punctua-
tion is nonsense. (10)
2 We French have commonsense
when we are dead. (4)
3 Angry boast by a taxgatherer.
4 Whale fossilised among fruit-
trees. (7) . ,
5 Tasty chum over a, piece of fur-
niture. (9)
6 Dutch to ensnare her touchdown.
(10)
7 American tug. (4)
10 —Large antelope is a prelate
hacker. (5)
13 — Photograph a fire-eater in flower.
(10)
14 — Throw pennies when there’s a
new actor in the part. (4, 6)
16—A hard swell travelling on foot
with Florence to an ancient
capital for a white-sauce ingre-
dient. (4, S)
19— Thrust and parry and the stopper
of a boundary hit a crook. (5)
20— Orchestra noticed this timber-
cutter. (4-3)
24 — Jockey in condition. (5)
25 Draught. (4)
26 go to the devil for a Kafhr
regiment. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 182


This entire pare is a FAID AD Prepared monthly hy MOFFAT-VTRTtnE UNITED
m.V. AGRICULTURAL DEWS
J - nl> A monthly feature for an those Interested In Agriculture 1958
FIRST KNOWLEDGE OF ELECTRICITY
CAME FROM ASIAN SHEPHERD
Magnes Found the Magnet
and Thought it Magic
An Asian shepherd, minding his sheep on the slopes of a mountain, one day
some hundreds of years before the birth of Christ, noticed a peculiar black stone,
that kept sticking to the iron point of his staff, and the iron nails of his sandals.
He was amazed, and took samples of the stone back to his village. The superstitious
villagers were amazed, too, and probably a little frightened. They decided that the
stone must have, in some way, taken living form, and immediately attributed all
kinds of properties to it.
The shepherd’s name was Magnes, All he really
found was some magnetic oxide of iron, or
loadstone, but he has been remembered down
the centuries in the word “magnet,” which we
use today to describe the simple electrical
action he was the first to observe.
From Magnes’ time right up to the 18th
century not many advances were made in the
progress of electricity. People saw things, such
as the action of amber when rubbed, wind-
dried hair crackling when combed, and thought
up all sorts of explanations . . . ludicrous to the
modern mind.
Then, some people began to wonder what really
caused these phenomena. Men spurned the age-
old explanations and set out to disprove them.
They began to get remarkable results from
experiments, which certainly disproved the old
theories, but gave them no idea of what really
caused them.
In 1709 Francis Hawkesbee, Curator of Experi-
ments for the Royal Society of England, made
a machine which revolved a glass ball at high
speed. When a partial vacuum was created in
the ball, and a hand placed against it as it
revolved, it would produce a bright glow.
In a darkened room of average size this glow
was so bright that you could read large print
by it. Although he did not know the exact
reason, Hawkesbee had a vague idea that static
electricity was the cause.
Later scientists proved him right, and he can
now be credited with being one of the first men
to produce light from electricity.
The 1 Bth-century scientists were on the track of
something they did not quite understand. But,
after people like Volta and Galvani had laid a
solid groundwork it was only left for Sir
Humphry Davy and others to apply that
knowledge.
The first arc light was produced by Sir
Humphry Davy in 1800. It used two sticks
of wood charcoal and a Voltaic Pile, and pro-
duced a recognisable result.
It was not until 1840 that Sir William Grove
made a crude incandescent light. He used it for
demonstration only. It was hard to make, did
not last very long, and used a prohibitive
amount of electricity.
Other men followed Grove’s ideas and gradu-
ally built up a store of facts. Correlating these
an American, Thomas A. Edison, set to work,
and finally succeeded in making a commercially
practicable incandescent light.
Edison used charcoal filaments made from
bamboo. Later, other scientists developed the
present-day tungsten filament, but basically the
lamps we use today are the same as those
Edison produced originally.
FROM CANDLES TO ELECTRICITY
IN 100 YEARS
From the day the earth began, right up to 150
years ago electricity was available to its people
. . . and they didn’t know anything about it.
Then, suddenly, everything was uncovered!
What caused this amazing progress can only be
seen from the objective view of future his-
torians, For 2000 odd years people lit their
homes with candles and oil-lamps . . . then in
the short space of 100 odd years they de-
veloped an entirely new source of light and
power.
Electricity started in the big towns. It did not
take long for all the main cities of the World
to do away with their gas-lights and put in the
much brighter and cheaper electric lights.
It spread to smaller country towns, and in some
countries, where hydro-electric plants made
supply cheap, everyone, including the farmer,
had electricity laid on.
Australia was in the unfortunate position of
being very thinly settled. It would have been
a hard and expensive job to reticulate rural
mem.
II
i ;
B
mm
m
m m
:%%%* 1 T7,' : W *
1
»i
? {
x&MsS#
:*:•; y'M
WW^W !f
>■ « : ;
'.' ! h‘: ;
i:: : :m
-: >
■
< «
:; -I#*
m m
,:- • (
MASS
PRODUCTION
At Moffat-Virtue’s Rosebery, N.S.W.,
Factory modern handling and produc-
tion techniques slash production costs.
That is why M.V. Equipment can be
turned out at a lower price, whilst
still maintaining the highest standards
of quality.
In the left foreground a fork-lift truck
moves a load of crankcases for M.V.
Engines, whilst on the right a battery
of drills bores them out. Some of
these engines will be allocated to M.V,
Light and Rower Plants.
U:
J
B
THE FIRST ELECTRIC LIGHT
In 1709 Francis Hawkesbee, Curator of
Experiments at the Royal Society of England,
made a device that may have looked some-
thing like this. The glass hall gave off a
weird glow when a hand was placed on it
while it was rotating.
areas, so small, low-priced generating sets were
developed for bringing electricity to individual
homesteads.
First Home Light and Power Plants were im-
ported from overseas, but soon local manufac-
turers began to turn out 32, 50 and 1 10 Volt
Plants here.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., entered the field in the
early 1930’s with a range of Plants planned to
fill the needs of every country homestead.
M. V. Light and Power Plants soon became one
of the most popular on the market. They were
beautifully made and absolutely reliable.
Today, on many thousands of country home-
steads, Moffat-Virtue Plants are producing a
strong, steady supply of electricity . . . bringing
all the comforts of modern living to those
people beyond the reach of power-lines.
M. V. Plants can run washing machines, vacuum
cleaners, irons, fans and many other electrical
appliances. Workshop tools can be fitted with
electric motors and run from M.V. Plants,
making farm repair jobs faster and easier.
The cost of producing power with an M.V.
Light and Power Plant does not run into more
than a few shillings a week.
® The engines used in M.V. Light and Power
Plants range in size from the 2\ h.p. M.V.
Petrol Engine in the 700 Watt, 32 Volt
Plant, to the 8 h.p. M.V. Diesel in the 4
Kilowatt, 110 Volt Plant.
• These engines can be adapted for use with
other farm equipment. They are rugged and
simple . . . designed to run economically
and smoothly for years.
• Generators have been especially designed
for cool, trouble-free running under all
conditions.
• The Plants are assembled on rigid steel
bases. They are fitted with adjustable vee-
belt drives. Instruments are mounted on a
separate, highly polished switchboard.
All M.V. Light and Power Plants can be bought
for cash, or by making a small deposit and
paying the balance off in easy instalments.
Full particulars can be obtained from any one
of the Distributors listed at the bottom of this
page.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited,
Hobart and Launceston.
