

The Bulletin
p<The Bulletin/ 5 Vol. 73—No. 3777
Wednesday, ly
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE GRANDEUR OF CAERPHILLY CASTLE IS STILL IMPOSING
IN Wales today there are the remains of over one hundred major castles.
A few, such as Powis and Chirk, are still inhabited, but the majority are
in ruins, to which they were reduced during the Civil War. Relics of a
forgotten past, many are now preserved as ancient monuments, though
Caerphilly, the first concentric castle in Britain, has been extensively restored
by its owners.
This great fortress, which is second only to Windsor in size, was built
in 1272, during the reign of Henry 111, by Gilbert de Clare, Earl of Gloucester
and Hereford. Large additions were made to it by Hugh le Despenser. It was
there that the unfortunate Edward II and his favourites, the Spencers, were
besieged in 1326. The fortress which had previously stood upon the same
site was razed to the ground by the Welsh in an attempt to free themselves
from the yoke of their Norman conquerors.
The castle, which is situated nine miles north of Cardiff, in Glamorganshire,
originally stood on an island in an artificial lake which was made by damming
the brook of Nant-y-Gledyr. It covers an area of thirty acres, has three
distinct wards, seven gatehouses and twenty-nine portcullises. In order to
guard against the danger of a surprise attack each tower and each gatehouse
was isolated both from the court and from the walls by portcullised doorways.
Caerphilly is remarkable for the possession of a leaning drum tower, fifty
feet high, the summit of which is inclined nine feet from the perpendicular
and is only held in place by the immense strength of its cement, which is
almost unknown to modem masons. The damage to this tower was nausea
by an explosion during the prolonged siege of 1326, when the castle hnaiiy
surrendered. It was again captured by Owen Glendower. Caerphilly neve
regained its ancient splendour, but the storms of the passing centuries nave
hardly weathered the proud walls of this once great and formidable fortress.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


GEH33I
jTffuTiSiiMJ
at HOME
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
w
The Third FLOOD
Novel following
"THE SUN IS
MY UNDOING"
and
"TWILIGHT ON
THE FLOODS"
• Available from all Booksellers
PHOENIX
RISING
By MARGUERITE STEEN
COLLINS
The Red Page
A CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
Dr. P. L. Hipsley has written The
Early History of the Royal Alexandra
Hospital for Children (Angus and
Robertson); i.e., the first 25 years, from
when it was opened on January 1, 1880,
at The Glebe, Sydney, m the altered
buildings of Mr. T. J. Bowyer’s old
college.
Dr. Hipsley mentions a great many
circumstances of the times to help us
realise how long ago this was ; but none
brings it more; home to the reader than
the portrait of the president of the firs
annual meeting of subscribers. Sir Sau
Samuel, or that of the president from
1880 to 1885, Sir George Wigram Allen:
under their clean-shaven chins a fuzz oj
whisker went right round their throats
from ear to ear —they resembled prize
Merinos.
Many other names associated with the
formation are still going strong in Sydney,
but the most interesting of them was a
lady who, 18 years later, claimed to have
been the “originator” of the hospital, and
on the strength of this applied to the
board for assistance in opening a tea-
room at Manly. Refused.
Dr. Hipsley gives short summaries of
the early doctors of the hospital, among
which one notices Dr. Charles Clubbe,
after whom a ward of the new place at
Camperdown has been named ; one of
the duties of the handyman at that time
was to walk Dr. Clubbe’s horse about
after it had arrived lathered in foam, the
doctor having raced in from his surgery
at Randwick to perform a tracheotomy
on a child suffering laryngeal diphtheria.
In 1885 a lieutenant of H.M.S.
Mida presented the children with a
i musical box, which was still going
“in the medical officer's quarters”
;een years later. In 1887, the hospital
its first major battle —with the Lady
erintendent. The Bulletin entered
this controversy with cartoons and
comments as that the Lady Superin-
ent was:
:lever woman with a tendency to over-
mate her ability; imperious in disposi-
i, when thwarted she is inclined to
ome hysterical and to give vent to wild
ements and wilder tears —a woman’s
imon refuge.
te lady had complained in an in-
state letter about the treatment of
cuts by physicians. The board did not
ih to receive” the letter, and later
ded not to receive the lady—at house-
anittee meetings. The Lady Super-
endent thereupon “behaved in such
nanner” that the board dispensed with
her services. She refused to leave the
hv ital. She criticised certain doctors,
>. &S J on, Dr. Hipsley considers, by a
medical member of the board. The
“Australian Medical Gazette” rubbed its
hands over “a first-class row” ; a child
died because a doctor had not received
a message; the Government appointed a
commissioner; the Lady Superintendent
made charges; the “Herald” reported the
proceedings; The Bulletin took up a
complaint of the doctors’ that nurses
were split into two social classes,
addressed differently and having their
meals apart:
There seem to be only several things the
matter with the Sydney Children’s Hospital.
The first is the aristocratic business —the
arbitrary sorting-out of the nurses into
“Browns” and “Miss Browns”; the second
is the too much ornamental Lady Superin-
tendent and too little plain “Matron.”
Later the The Bulletin summed-up: —■
Either the Lady Superintendent should
also be the highest medical authority in the
institution or the highest medical authority
should be a doctor who would be supreme.
The board abolished the Lady Superin-
tendent in honor of a matron, taking
the opportunity to cut down the matron’s
salary from £l5O to £9O a year, and
appointed its first resident medical officer.
Dr. MacLennan, at £l5O a year.
In the chapter on “Surgical Conditions
and Methods of Treatment,” one notices
Dr. Clubbe at work again; his way with
subcutaneous osteotomy of the tibia:
At that time he used a narrow-bladed
saw, which was introduced through a small
incision in the skin, and after sawing
through a sufficient thickness of the shaft
of the tibia, he broke the bone across his
knee used as a fulcrum
The squeamish reviewer may perhaps
be excused for not delving any more into
that chapter. A child with bubonic
plague got into the hospital by accident
in 1902 ; the Government quarantined the
building, but the resident doctor, “a force-
ful personality and a man of resource,”
got in and out when he wanted to over
the back fence.
In 1886, the Government becoming
curious, the Lady Superintendent reported
that 24 gallons of stimulants had been
consumed by the hospital—i.e., brandy,
etc. In that year 272 children had been
admitted and 34 beds were occupied at
the end of the year. Whereas, in the
eight years from 1939 to 1947, nine
gallons a year was used, some for flavor-
ing trifle, the average number of
patients in hospital at one time being 500,
and the average number admitted
each year being between 11,000 and
12,000. Dr. Hipsley leaves us to con-
clude that children were fonder of the
bottle then than now.
Pat Kerrigan, who resigned to better
himself after six years, seems to have
been the hospital’s best handyman ; the
next “transgressed in the matter of strong
drink” ; the next could not agree with the
cook; but “others left because they got
on too well with the housemaids.”
There is an appendix of the members
of the board of management from 1800
until 1905, and of house-surgeons from
1887 until 1905; and, on this notable
occasion, there is no reason to wish that
Dr. Hipsley had removed the appendix.
All Saints', Bathurst .
The Steel and Sloman (1936) History
of All Saints' College, Bathurst, has been
revised and enlarged in a new edition
(A. and R.) by another old-boy, James
Antill, the Sydney engineer, to celebrate
the school’s 75th birthday.
All Saints’ has produced leaders in
most fields from Asparagus (M. G.
Edgell) to Zoology (J. R. Kinghorn). The
editors of the Australian official histories
of both World War I (C. E. W. Bean)
and World War II (Gavin Long) are old-
boys of All Saints’. A, W. Jose, first
editor of The Australian Encyclopaedia,
was an assistant master there.
Among other old-boys were: Sir
Charles Wade, Premier of N. S. Wales,
1907-10; his young brother, Leslie, to
whose efforts “the Burrinjuck irrigation
scheme was largely due”; Sir Colin
Stephen, record chairman of the Aus-
tralian Jockey Club ; H. M. Green, poet
and critic ; G. A. Green, motor-bus and
armored-tank expert, naturalised Ameri-
can, vice-president of General Motors’
Truck Co., a Lend-Lease administrator in
London and Director of Industry in the
Marshall Plan organisation in Paris ,
Arthur Charles Hall, V.C.; Sir Nojman
Kater (sheep and sugar); Captain J. M.
Armstrong, of the merchant-cruiser
Manoora, and of H.M.A-S. Australia at
Leyte, in the Lingayen Gulf and the
Luzon landing; Sir William Dixson
(tobacco and Aiistraliana); Robert
Gibbes, D. 5.0., D.F.C.
And not least, and to help one scrape
acquaintance with such notables, another
old-boy was Ole Pop Wade, if so one
may be permitted to refer openly to the
Rev, Robert Wade, M.A., Ph.D., whose
little school at Killara remains one of
the pleasantest memories of a misspent
life; the good masters give more than
ever they Can get: there one lived cheer-
fully under a benign eye that saw all
and said little; there one wandered the
bush tracks that led to Middle Harbor,
and played bad football and execrable
cricket; there one had the distinction of
being called a “young pup” by an
assistant master who is now Dovey, Q.C.,
the occasion being, if one remembers
rightly, an experiment to determine
whether golden syrup made a good sauce
for cold roast beef ...
All Saints’ was founded by trustees
as a Church of England school in 1874,
Canon Smith selling a farm for £lBOO
to finance the building—later, the farm,
subdivided, realised between £25,000 and
£30,000. But the Church gave up con-
trol after the headmastership of Henry
Kemmis (1874-77). Edwin Bean, father
of the historian, who was headmaster
from 1878 to 1888, accepted all the
school’s financial obligations, and set to
work with no salary but the school’s
expectations; and so the school was
handed on to Rev. Frederick Tracey
(1889-98), who seems to have retained the
ownership after the headmastership
passed on to Herbert Britten (1898-1910)
and George Sydney Stiles (1911-19).
When Stiles took over, attendance had
fallen to nine boarders and 14 day-boys.
By the end of the year he had doubled
these figures. But World War I and
rising costs beat him:
Lack of staff made it necessary for him
to take two classes at once. Sometimes
he would give boxing lessons before break-
fast (itinerant boxing menageries used to
ballyhoo at Bathurst that they would take
on all-comers “and the professional up at
the College”), teach and coach all day, and
at night would read with one boy who
complicated the situation still further by
learning Greek.
The school was closed in 1919, and on
behalf of Rev. F. Tracey in England, and
Harry Tracey and Henry Hogg in New
Zealand, the property was sold to the
N. S. Wales Education Department as
a site for a high school. In 1922, Rev.
L. G. H. Watson, a former assistant
master there, then .headmaster of a not-
very-successful school at Cooma, can-
vassed the possibility of reopening All
Saints’; a school council of clergy and
Old Boys was formed, and Mr. Watson
and his vice-principal, C. F. McLeod,
sank their money and a bit more into an
old house dating back to 1831, variously
known as Longlea, Esrom, The Travel-
lers’ Rest and The Old Pub, which
opened in 1923 to 24 boarders and
seven day-boys, having one classroom
where the bar, cellar and private parlor
used to be, and the other of ail the back
rooms knocked together.
In 1925 the department allowed the
old chapel to be demolished, removed
and rebuilt on the new grounds ; in 1927
the Lord Bishop of London laid the
foundation-stone of the new school build-
ings, and from that year the. school
became Church of England property. In
the course Of time “the old pub” was
demolished and replaced by the head-
master’s home.
The History has a list of all the boys
who have attended the school, with notes,
long and short, on their subsequent
careers; honor-rolls of five wars
Sudan, South Africa, both World Wars
and the Korean campaign ; a record of
council members, a list of masters and
assistant masters, of matrons, of carpentry-
instructors, and of school-servants; and
an appendix of prize-poems, school-songs,
football-songs, camp-songs, old-boys’
songs, etc.
R. McC.
I draw attention to an error in your
review of Dr. Orchard’s book (30/4/’52).
Referring to Wallace who wrote
“Maritana,” your reviewer says he
arrived in Hobart from Ireland in 1835,
aged 29. But Orchard says Wallace was
born in 1816, and was 19 when he came
to Hobart. This is important, as it is
improbable that a young man of 19 knew
anything of the libretto of “Maritana”
till handed to him in London in 1845. I
appreciate your summing-up of the
Wallace story. But it is necessary to make
it clear that he was 19 and not 29.
Eric Hortin (Hobart).
# * * *
“Phil Anthus”: I hereby apply for
inclusion among those who, as predicted
by a Red Page reviewer (5/3 / ’52), are
“a little irritated” by the muddling 1 of
names in Ernestine Hill’s latest book,
The Territory . Sloppincss of the kind is
becoming lamentably common in Austra-
lian books, and it is especially to be
deplored when occurring in works, such
as The Territory, which contain much
useful material. Aside from the mix-up
6f human names cited by the Red Page
(to which might have been added the
“knighting” of Essington Lewis), the book
slips badly in its use of the names of
local fauna. For example, notes on birds
allege unpatriotically that the iSforthern
Territory accommodates “the sun-bird of
Brazil,” the “Caribbean frigate-bird,”
the “policeman crane of India” and “the
golden pheasant of China,” whereas, of
course, the first three are Australia’s own
products (Brazil hasn’t got a sun-bird,
anyhow), and our interest in the “phea-
sant of China” is restricted to aviaries.
Certain other bird-allusions in the book,
including a reference to the bower-bird’s
playground as a “nest,” are also
incorrect. The question arises, Why don’t
all writers of geographical and kindred
books do their country and their readers
(to say nothing of themselves) the justice
of checking up on names and other fac-
tual material, from sources that are
readily available, before going into print?
Failure in this regard isn’t purely
feminine. I read recently a male writer’s
book on Central Australia that contained
at least half a dozen mis-rehderings of
names or initials of living citizens, every
one of which could have been quickly
adjusted by a glance at Who’s Who in
Australia .
*** . *
The Real Tripitaka ; Arthur Waley
(Allen and Unwin). Chiefly a historical
background for the Chinese novel Monkey
which Mr. Waley translated in 1942.
There are also eight translations of
Chinese stories, two from the Japanese,
some original stories in Chinese style, and
an account of a Japanese pilgrim’s visit
to China in the ninth century.
Various Verse
BLACK-SHOULDERED KITE.
Carved out of strength the furious kite
shoulders off the winds of hate.
The black mark that bars his white
is the pride and hunger of Cain.
Perfect, precise, the angry calm
of his closed body, that snowstorm—
of his still eye that threatens harm.
Hunger and force his beauty made
and turned a bird to a knife-blade.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT
THE WAVE.
The wave is something, yet nothing;
A green sloughing of water
On shore; is death after living.
What was it, that “Now” is “After,”
And we must look out, again.
For another wave? Plain, plain
That the sea will return; and, filled
With the green importance of growth,
Swell with another wave. I shall see, too,
this slough
Filjny, almost invisible; think that the
snake is killed,
While the serpent’s escaping in the secret
grass . . .
Look down at the wet beach. All it is now
Is a wet film to step round. This we may
> pass :
But the ocean slides inshore, recoiling,
repeats its blow.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
SEA LION.
Blind him, the lion, the blunt wind sings,
fill hia tiny eyes with sand,
cover him with shells and stones
and then he'll die and leave his bones.
The lion is grey the morning found
rolled on the shore like a snarling log.
He is scratched with wind and high
on the sand where the sea is dry.
O the sand has shattered the pools of his
eyes
whipped up by the wind and broken his
mouth.
This is a shore where a bird alone
picks in the craters of the hollow stone.
The wind cries out from the thorny dunes
from the tangled banksias sharp as wife:
We have caught our lion and locked him
there
where the shells and weed are brittle and
pale—
O his bones will be hollow for the sand
when it sings.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
HOME.
The warm word “home,” what will it mean
hereafter
If any after to my here there be?
House, garden, children, trivial tiffs and
laughter?
Or a sullen waste of dull eternity?
What should I hope for, sheer obliteration,
Or life, beloved life, on any terms?
Grey ages passed in barren meditation
Beyond the burying-grounds of winds and
storms,
A chain of unadventurous days and dim
Days of the woodlouse, centipede or snail
That slowly, indistinguishably trail
Through the bleak aeons to the ends of
time?
Or a string of violent and brain-shattering
crises
With sinkings to black troughs of lethargy,
Surge in excess of superhuman vices
Leading to God-knows-what blank ecstasy ?
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL


n
vmmm
■ i- V
m
m
:■■■::■<■
:
m
mmm
m
77
m
I 11: 1
I
W
mmm
WMlWffi
mMimm
mm
iiHs
mmm
m
m
mm
■■
■
Blinds mat
er in 4 weeks
These very attractive wood Vene-
tian blinds are made in our own
factory by skilled workmen.
t
These blinds are styled to add charm
to the finest interiors: they handle
easily and hang gracefully.
The materials used are only the
finest; the laths are selected
Canadian cedar, and the finish Is
satin smooth and stands up to all
abuse-. The tapes are Carr's English
ladder tape.
These blinds give you a most
permanent beauty.
■
We can match any colour to any
colour scheme. Priced at 6/1 I sq. ft.
Minimum, 12 sq. ft. per blind.
Write, phone or call and v/e will
forward our easy guide to measure
on all types of blinds.
To glamorise your home
i. Pacific and
lys Grieve
bedspreads
MMHh
i
mm
mm
mm
mm
mm
& * -f
i ;
S
,v. pm®.
-..
: '
Left:
Gladys Grieve No. 663. Box-
tailored, bolster style. Six
Inch box heading on skirt in
honeycomb pattern. Throw-
back sham with skirted
ends. Colours: Rose,
Green, Beige, White,
Mushroom, Blue and
Gold. Price £l4/12/6
3ft., £l4/19/6 double.
And In pastel shades.
Above Right:
Jeldi Spreads in a full price
range from £5/9/6 to
£l3/6/9. Featured style No.
5A In full range of colours
and in pastel shades. 3ft.,
£4/19/6; double size, £5/9/6.
Ruffles illustrated at left on
window in White plastic with
Red, Blue or Green trim, 30/-.
Below Right:
Pacific Velwick Chenille No. 20.
in tailored style in all colours
and pastel shades. £lO/13/6
3ft.; double-bed size, £lO/16/9.
w
ŵ
ẁ
.
i
In'r’W mm&rn.
; 4 vW* <* *W* M
%%>% *** XXWW
|HR| :*•;% -•% •:< « •■> -- •* •> •••* •<•>■ ••*•<."< '-9 *-* ■' ■* **, ' 1
''
lvx4» v •• •“* •<••<-< x .
*■•*•<4 xv X. ?* < % \-> -x >*' «*;>* --v * -•■ * *, ->
>,?&■&*%<**■ >■=• •<■ : ;> ** : -> ■■•• ‘V "• ■'•< ••■>> A -n A
>:8
» * ■>; ->-•>,:-<• •:> :■» * * ■« '<• V •:•. -
i »mm^*#* , -<ii -ait :*•**■**>% ■* >•* .':¥,*■■■>■ ■:< :"< '•& %'$ % : j
f+* *: ■;. 3. -ft X V :>. ■•■ -i- •:. ■■; ■:■ ' , -.. , • WJ
; » * - < ' '.
*'<>>» i. ■* •> '» > f
•* .%:'■:%-% '%■'i m
m
■:V’ ''■■
sm
S*xS
is&m
mm
mm
mm
rV i
m
I
Hi
H
ẃ


&
«P
ofr flOfllV^
\3tiabMtfae
tAeAi kmwdieted
ake mmiep&m jmk
m
T*?-'
X
v
i:.:*
wm
m
m
m
mmsi
■
m
m
m
lw
mmmm
I-’-’-' r :
m
in
.
, ■
: MWu-:
#■:. ••.: - r
iiiiiii
a
■
;,X
p ««
WmMWsSmMM
■'■fi
Pjjpi IS®
.
:' i
m
-
Sni.
'i4:\
'&"/ :
.■■r : v
■■'•'■•'• : : 'r'
rM
I • *'• ’
BiM
:m ’.s.
.
mm
| I 1 * *T*4 \
ABBOTSFORD, N. 9. VICTORIA,
. \/"i ‘mriA
AUSTRALIA.


The Bulletin
Vol. 73—No. 3777
Wednesday, July 2, 1982.
THE THREE MONKEYS
“See no good; hear no good; say no good.”
“The Deputy Leader of the Liberal party, Mr. E. J. Harrison, claims that a three-point criticism of Federal Government policy by the Labor party is founded on three lies.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collini
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth ,
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WHERE "LABOR " SCORES.
Dr. Evatt’s ecstasies over the results in
the Victorian State Legislative Council
poll earn him the prize for the world’s
most-easily-pleased politician. At the
moment he burst into rapturous song
“Labor” had polled 328,764 votes to
543,635 polled by other political parties,
not counting the Communists’ 9446. Even
allowing for uncontested seats won by
“Labor,” Victoria voted solidly against
the Socialists.
Dr. Burton’s leader declared that one
outstanding feature of the election was
that for the first time in the history of
the State the Legislative Council had
been elected by adult franchise. And on
that franchise Victoria has made it clear
by a solid majority of the total votes and
of seats that it doesn’t want “Labor” in
control in the Council even if it isn’t
sure what it does want, and throws the
rest of the members into the ring in
scattered Leaps. Dr. Evatt, however,
speaks of “decisive gains for ‘Labor,’ ”
of national significance and confirming
the results of the elections in other States,
While it should bring up with a round
turn the disjointed Liberal and Country-
party factions of the State, whose dissen-
sions are a disgrace to all of them, the
result does not augur very well for the
Federal “Labor” leadership. If it
strengthens the hands of “Labor” it is
Victorian “Labor” and not Dr. Evatt’s
brand of “Labor.”
Any “democratic” victory is for Mr.
Calwell, who has as little time for Dr.
Evatt’s brand of “Labor” politics as he
has for Liberal political programmes.
“Labor” is just as disunited as the Vic-
torian moderate parties, but so far, when-
ever a crack has become too obvious,
somebody has managed to brush a bit of
Red paint over it and hide it. Its schisms,
however, are now beyond repair by Red
paint.
There can be no agreement between
the Left-wing and the Right- (or A.W.U.-)
wing, and the only place in which peace
could be obtained between the two
factions is in an undertaker’s parlor at
the funeral of one of them. Mr.
Dougherty and his followers profess that
they will have none of the class-war
doctrine which has been introduced into
“Labor” politics in the past few years.
They do not hold, as do Dr. Evatt and
his section of the party, that even when
a Government is elected in opposition to
“Labor” on an overwhelming majority at
an election it becomes “Labor’s” duty to
obstruct the mandate and combine with
any elements which are willing to join it
in “throwing Menzies out.” The new
controllers in N. S. Wales show some
signs of adopting a reasonable and consti-
tutional attitude.
Any “Labor” doctrine which does
not base itself on the class-war will be
completely unacceptable to the Left-wing
of “Labor,” and unfortunately the Left-
wing is lodged in seats of advantage from
which even the power of the A.W.U.
cannot shift it altogether. The late
Ferguson executive leaned to the Left,
with the result that there are a large
bunch of Leftists in the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council, red-eyed with anger
at their “betrayal” by the “rebels” at the
recent N. S. Wales A.L.P. annual con-
ference. And there are others well
embedded in the Federal “Labor” party,
while on the industrial side Trades and
Labor Councils and the A.C.T.U. are
either Leftist or “Liberal” in control, or
in the hands of men like Mr. R. A. King,
M.L.C., who runs the Sydney concern,
and who had his basic training as a
“Right-winger” in the Communist party
and was a Moscow delegate as late as
1938. Also in the N. S. Wales Legislative
Assembly there is Mr. Clive Evatt.
In N. S. Wales a Minister who was
recently president of a “peace committee”
which has been sending delegates—in-
cluding an endorsed Federal candidate,
the protege of the party-leader— to Com-
munist Peking may not be a load to
carry, but none of the other States is
likely to forget his action, especially since
he is Dr. Evatt’s brother. And when the
time comes the electors. Federal or State,
are not likely to forget that the McGirr
Government was opposed to the appoint-
ment of the Liquor Commission whose
pungent revelations have made more start-
ling reading for Sydney people than
any novel.
Tpiere is not necessarily much room for
satisfaction for the Liberal and Country-
party side in “Labor’s” internal troubles.
“Labor” has a habit of winning lost
causes and of making a success of cam-
paigns in which its defeat seems a fore-
gone conclusion. The Liberal victory of
1949, and the second one at the double-
dissolution of 1951, were achieved rather
in spite of the Liberal party’s organisation.
In some States—N. S. Wales in particular
—the theory appears to be held in Liberal
circles that the more money is spent the
better the result will be. And “Labor”
certainly won the referendum on the
Communist-party Dissolution Bill, in
respect of which few people gave
it a dog’s chance at the opening
of the fight, partly through its
sheer energy (and that of the Com-
munist party) and partly through the
Liberal leadership taking victory for
granted. It has again succeeded in the
past few months in swinging public
opinion by a campaign notable only for
persistent energy and colossal impudence.
This must not be allowed to happen
again; but it will happen unless the
Government’s organisers and publicists
pull up their sox and unless Govern-
ment action is backed by the publicity
efforts of men who have faith in what
they write, and can communicate that
faith to the relevant body of voters.
At present the Government’s effort to
carry the public with it is not inspiring.
This is possibly because it seems to be
an axiom in Liberal circles that no
publicist is any use unless he has been
“Labor”-trained and has been engaged
for years in propagating the idea that the
“Labor” leaders are Wonders of the Age
and that the Liberal party is made up
of Colonel Blimps and Big Business.
The public would be astonished to dis-
cover how many of the ghost-writers of
Messrs. McKell, Chifley and others have
been transferred by a stroke of a pen
on a cheque into ardent but not very
adept advocates of the principles of
Liberalism.
It is no wonder in these circumstances
that Liberal-party and Government an-
nouncements do not always carry to the
public the conviction in what those bodies
do which Ministers and party leaders
themselves feel and that Government
appointments are often greeted in Can-
berra with bursts of cynical and satisfied
“Labor” laughter.
If the Government is to win the next
Federal, election it will need to do more
than steer the country’s economy safely
through the shoals and wait for “Labor”
to wreck itself. It must learn to present
its case in a better way and prevent
“Labor” from being always a jump ahead
of it in publicity.
The Demagogue.
A demagogue, says the dictionary, is “an
unprincipled, factious orator, one who
acquires influence with the populace by
pandering to their prejudices or playing
on their ignorance.” The word entered
the language in 1648, a long time before
Dr. Evatt. But he is the perfect example
in our politics; and his tenuous
hold upon the leadership of the Socialist
party depends upon whether he can
restore for service to his personal ambi-
tions that solidarity which the last two
Federal elections showed to have been
shattered on the Communist issue.
Communist sabotage of trade-union
“solidarity” did much to bring about the
overthrow of the Chifley Government,
but that did not prevent Dr. Evatt, Mr.
Chifley’s deputy-leader, from standing
forth as “the foremost defender of the
Communists in this Parliament” when the
Menzies Government, obstructed by a
rump “Labor” majority in the Senate,
attempted by legislation to expel their
“nests of traitors” in the public service
and in the union executives. True, these
wreckers had some grudge to work off
against “Labor”; after all, the Chifley
Government had power to enact socialisa-
tion measures, socialisation of the means
of production, distribution and exchange
was its prime objective, and the imple-
mentation of it was both the pledged
duty of “Labor” and the half-way-house
to a Communist State. Under the spur
to nationalise banking and credit the
Chifley Government, defeated by lack of
constitutional powers in the direct
approach, was not blind to the fact that
inflation of the currency could work to-
wards the same end, especially with
“Labor’s” pretence of combating infla-
tion by “pegging prices but not wages.”
That policy also it owed to Communist
prompters.
The electors at the 1949 polls destroyed
the Chifley-Evatt Government on both
these counts. They had had enough of
the Communist “nest of traitors” and of
the socialisation policy. The “Labor”
party’s post-mortem on the corpse
accepted these causes of death. The
demagogue is now re-interpreting that
finding. Dr. Evatt is induced by (inter
alia) the Legislative Council polling results
in Victoria to declare that in 1949 and
again in 1951 the Menzies Government
“snatched” office, and “is now being
punished” for its “false promises” to re-
store the economy and for having “under-
mined the stable and prosperous economic
conditions which existed under the
‘Labor’ Government.” Apparently the
Liberal-Country coalition got in—twice—
by big majorities while the electors weren’t
looking.
The student of our politics may, in
due course, be intrigued by the conflict
between the late J. B. Chifley’s heart and
his brain —between his comprehension of
the causes of inflation and its dangers
to the whole sterling area (including Aus-
tralia), and his reluctance to take the
thing in this country by the throat while
his command of Parliament was absolute.
Chifley seemed to understand the shaki-
ness of the sterling area under the double
strain of credit-inflation for “full em-
ployment”—as stimulated by both his own
Government in Australia and the Attlee
Socialist Government in Britain —and the
unmitigated reliance of sterling for
stability upon injections of dollar-aid
which were to cease at the end of a
limited short term of years. Anyway,
he explained this situation in un-
mistakable words in exhortations to
this country during four successive Budget
speeches. These exhortations his Cabinet
and caucus treated as something to be
forgotten as speedily as possible. But
they confront the demagogue now, striv-
ing as he is to “snatch” power out of
a situation wherein his “changes of
plumage in full flight” are being exhibited
in full view.
For 18 months after the 1949 elections
the Menzies Government was virtually
powerless to redeem the instability of the
country’s economy by reason of “Labor’s”
obstruction in the old Senate rump. This
was the first ditch thrown up by the
defeated Socialists confessedly animated
by the sole purpose of “preventing the
Menzies Government from governing”—
from legislating in accordance with its
election policy. This was to summon a
united effort to “restore value to the
pound,” popular version of the duty,
accepted but neglected by its predecessors,
to restore the financial strength of the
sterling bloc. Mr. Chifley had foreseen,
in Budget speeches which The Bulletin
(18/6/’52) has requoted at length, the
deepening plight of the whole sterling
area under falling production and high
Government spending. He foresaw even
the threatening day when, unless indus-
trial output in basic industries greatly
improved, the Australian Government
would be obliged “to restrict imports
from all sources,” divert labor from non-
essential to essential industries, and cut
severely expenditure on State public
works. There is no possible twisting of
his words on the then-approaching crisis
as he saw it.
As soon as the second elections, in
mid-1951, gave the Menzies Government
the majority it demanded in both Houses,
the Government went into action with
the 1951 Budget provisions to restrict
credit and draw off by taxation surplus
spending-power, in order to finance (1)
rearmament against threatened war and
(2) works programmes (Commonwealth
and State) for which subscriptions to
public loans fell tar short. These were
the very measures which Mr. Chifley
indicated in some of his last speeches as
Opposition-leader, beseeching the Govern-
ment to act “whether such action will
be popular or unpopular.” He had
already, in his last Budget speech as
Treasurer, declared that failure to plan
for strict priorities in State works expen-
diture “could mean either falling incomes
and unemployment, or else that excessive
competition for material resources which
is the real cause of inflation.” He died,
fortunately spared the spectacle of
his party under Dr, Evatt howling
execration at the Menzies Government’s
operation of the very instruments he had
implored it to use to save “the country’s
honor, economy, prestige and standing
abroad.”
Even the demagogue was temporarily
impressed. Fresh elections in 1951 were
probable, and he was bent upon finding a
talking-line which would counter the ill-
favor into which he had fallen by nis
defence in Parliament and in the law
courts of the Communist leaders who
were sabotaging Australian industry. Dr.
Evatt chose to this end for a. Sunday-night
broadcast the device of “a call for leader-
ship” from Mr. Menzies. He demanded
“a national plan against inflation in the
interests of all sections of the people” and
steps to equip the country to meet, “a
period of acute crisis both internationally
and locally.” He said: “Failure of the
Government to act is aggravating the
present inflation” ; and “the drift towards
a third world war is apparent;... .defence
measures are essential.”
This is the demagogue who now
denounces root and branch the Common-
wealth Government’s measures against
inflation and is elated at the “punishment”
it is receiving for doing what, on behalf
of “Labor,” he recently demanded it
should do. If the Australian electors
—or the majority of them—think
this demagogue has got the answers,
they might ask him whether the
late J. B. Chifley’s financial diagnosis
was all wrong and what constructive
policy he himself proposes as a
cure for the economic ills of the times.
The real trouble with Dr, Evatt is that
the Government’s anti-inflation tactics are
succeeding, and this to him and to
“Labor” is extremely mortifying.
Oil for Australia.
Although the bulk of the crude oil pro-
cessed in Australia; together with a large
part of the imported refined petroleum
products, is shipped from the Middle
East and the East Indies, industrial unrest
within the oil industry in any part of
the world affects the availability of the
petroleum upon which, in one form or
another, the economy and development
of this country are so dependent.
The most recent example of this—in
many ways deplorable—fact was the
shortage of aviation spirit brought about
by an oil-workers’ strike in U.S.A. While
it is undeniable that this unrest was a
result of Communist-inspired discontent
in an industry which has been normally
satisfied and individualistic, it must be
recognised that there have been contribu-
tory factors of which the Communists
took full advantage.
The Persian production of crude pet-
roleum for 1949 was 27,136,000 metric
tons ; for 1950 it was 32,258,000 metric
tons —an increase of nearly 19 p.c.
Half-way through 1951, as a result of the
Abadan crisis, the oil stopped flowing in
Persia and the production for that year
dropped to 16,435,000 tons —a decrease
of practically 50 p.c. Fortunately,
during 1951 it was possible to increase
Kuwait production by 63.3 p.c. to
28.228.000 tons (from 17,291,000 tons),
while Saudi Arabian tonnage rose from
26.992.000 to 37,476,000, or 33.4 p.c.
Owing to this speeding-up, Middle East
production, as a whole, instead of declin-
ing, as might have been expected, rose
from 88,236,000 tons in 1950 to 99,643,000
for 1951, or 9.5 p.c. In the circum-
stances this rate of annual increase in
production may be considered highly
satisfactory, but it is far below that from
1949 to 1950, which was 24.9 p.c.
The world effect of this slowing-down
in the annual rate of Middle East pet-
roleum production has been somewhat
eased by new production in Canada, but
it has had the unfortunate result of giving
the Communists the opportunity of stag-
ing a “sure-fire” strike in the U.S.A. oil
industry at a time when every drop of oil
was essential to national security. It has
also brought realisation to the ruler of
Saudi Arabia, even more clearly than in
the past, that he now holds a whip-hand
in oil negotiations ; this knowledge of his
power has been enhanced by serious
misinterpretations, on the part of the
executives of the interested oil companies,
as to the Arab mentality.
The Persian oilfield debacle was very
largely due to the fact that the Anglo-
Iranian Co. is almost entirely British-
owned. Had its shares been substantially
held internationally, as in the case of
Irak Petroleum, it is highly probable that
the Abadan refinery would still be on
stream, in spite of past errors by
petroleum tycoons.
Intrigue and discontent in Persian
Government circles—largely the result of
the easy money made by some of the
officials—had been fanned by Communist
agents and had been rife for many years ,
but the match which lit the conflagration
was the offer by the Arabian-American
Oil Co. (Aramco) to Ibn Sa’ud of 50 p.c.
of its profits. Aramco shares are prepon-
derantly American-held, so that again
one Western nation only was involved in
this foolish, shortsighted and selfish
bargain, which may have repercussions
even more serious than Abadan.
The Aramco “50/50” offer of late-1950
has already established, as a minimum
bargaining-counter for every Arab king-
ling, a half-share of the net profits from
the highly technical oil industry, whose
primary material lay neglected and un-
sought beneath his feet throughout the


centuries. Even the international Irak
Petroleum Co. has now been forced up
to this level by an agreement, signed in
February, 1952, and retrospective to
January, 1951, to share net profits equally
with the Iraki Government and to guaran-
tee a minimum payment of £2O million
sterling in 1953 and 1954 and of £25
million thereafter, but probably amount-
ing to £3l million in 1952 and rising to
£6O million by 1955.
Abdul Aziz ibn Sa’ud is a courageous
and clever ruler ; he is also a cunning
and ruthless diplomat. Like most of his
race, his greed has no bounds. At 73
he is, physically, a very old man, but
he has lost little of his mental alertness.
Thanks to oil, his present annual income
is the equivalent of about £5O million in
Australian currency, but it is idiotic to
assume, as the oil-company executives
appear to have done, that he is satisfied.
No Arab ever is!
Anyone with desert experience dishes
out rations meal by meal. The reason
is that if an Arab, by hook or by crook,
gets hold of a week’s supply, or more, he
will immediately start a feast, osten-
tatiously calling in any casual passer-by
to aid him in gorging until the food is
all eaten. The probability that he may
have to go hungry for the rest of the
week does not deter him, and at the back
of his mind there is always the hope that
that infidel simpleton, his employer, will
relent and make a supplementary issue.
Ibn Sa’ud is just another Arab,
although a mighty one. When his kingdom
(which meant his own household and his
friends and parasites) had to budget on
well below a million pounds a year—
largely derived by extortion from pilgrims
to Mecca—his hospitality and his love of
ostentation prohibited the setting-by of
any adequate surplus for public works
or national benevolence. With £5O mil-
lion the position is just the same, and it
wifi be with £lOO million a year.
Possibly the greatest of all the
Micawbers, Abdul Aziz never has cash to
spare and never will have. His hospi-
tality and his gift-giving render his
present (and any future) income inade-
quate, and even now he is trying to better
his 50-50 agreement with Aramco. From
the Arab point of view his reasons are
completely logical and sound, and he will
succeed unless Aramco is wise enough to
distribute its stock internationally, either
by sale or gift. That may sound quixotic,
but it is surely preferable to keep some
part of the profits in the industry and
in the coffers of the Western nations than
to allow the money to be dissipated in
satisfying the ever-increasing demands of
Ibn Sa’ud or, in the event of his death,
some or all of his 35 officially-recognised
sons.
If, following Ibn Sa’ud’s lead, even
more onerous terms are imposed in the
future by the other oil-bearing Arab
States, the price of petroleum products in
Australia, whose economy depends so
much upon oil and petrol at a reasonable
cost, will , rise so high, and the shortage
will become so acute, that the country
will be in danger of reverting to a coolie
civilisation.
JOHN PAIN.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Bombing in Korea.
“Ek Dum”; The bombing of the Yalu
hydroelectric works and dams in North
Korea by the U.S. Eighth Army com-
mand without consulting the British
command has caused uneasiness from
several points of view.
The incident shows how easily the
whole world may be led into war by the
ill-judged action of some commander
who has acted solely on his own initiative,
and how dangerous to world peace the
present loose U.N.O. military arrange-
ments may be. The best consolation is
that a similar incident is unlikely to
happen again. It is reported that the
United States Secretary of State, Mr.
Acheson, has apologised to the British
Government, and that a British liaison-
officer is to be appointed to the strategic
command in the Korean area.
It is about time. American actions at
the cease-fire talks in Korea, and gener-
ally in relation to Asian policy, have not
inspired much confidence, and incidents
of the sort which have taken place at
Koje prison compound have alarmed all
the major allies.
The plants which were bombed are cer-
tainly military objectives, though what
they are worth to the Korean front
nobody seems quite to know. The
awkward point about them is that they
were not built with Korean capital or
resources, but obviously as the result of
Russian planning and Chinese labor.
They are on a border river, and their
northern ramifications reach into China,
Their power goes to serve not only
North Korea but Chinese factories, which
may or may not be making supplies for
the Chinese and North Korean armies.
But they are also certainly supplying
Dairen, which is a Russian-occupied city,
with power, and to cut off power from
Dairen might be treated by the Russians
as an aggressive act, and displayed to the
whole of Asia and Europe very success-
fully as such.
That the decision to do the bombing
had political implications was proved by
the shindy which it raised both in London
and Washington, where obviously the
highest circles are in agreement on that
point. And thus it should have had
political approval, especially in view of
the delicate position in Europe.
Attacks of this sort are in any case
not permanently effective unless organised
in minute detail by specially-equipped
low-flying aircraft whose crews are trained
to the minute. And it is the kind of
operation which should be initiated only
as part of the political policy approved
by everybody concerned and after the
risks have been discussed and prepared
for. In this instance the British, whose
Defence Minister was on the spot at a
time when the preparations were going
on, were ignored and treated like school-
boys. And they and other allies, all bent
on avoiding world war, have reacted with
a natural display of alarm and criticism.
Ashfield and After.
The Ashfield (N.S.W.) by-election result
illustrates the extent to which State
politics are for the moment overshadowed
by Federal issues. Nothing that the N. S.
Wales “Labor” .Government has done in
the past two years entitled it to swing
one vote from the 3737 majority by which
the Liberals won the seat in 1950, yet on
Saturday sufficient electors changed their
allegiance to convert that majority into
a deficit of over 800, thereby giving
“Labor” the seat for the first time in
history.
It is not that the people of Ashfield
regard the Cahill Cabinet as a team of
Heaven-sent statesmen the like of whom
has never been seen in the 58 years of
the electorate’s history. It is not that they
are enthusiastic over the Government’s
record in bespattering the State with half-
finished or barely-started “projects,”
without any attempt to relate them to
available men, money and materials. It
is not that they like blackouts and desire
to ensure their continuance. It is not
that they admire the Government’s habit
of handing out highly-paid jobs to party
men. It is really a protest against rising
living-costs and less overemployment—
an unreasoning vote which normally goes
against the party in power. This time,
by some kind of double-inconsistency, the
vote was not against the party in power
in Macquarie-street, but against the
Menzies-Fadden Government in Can-
berra.
“Labor” fought the election entirely
on Federal issues. Premier Cahill set the
ball rolling by completely misrepresenting
Loan Council proceedings to make it
appear that the Federal Government had
prevented the States from getting money
to which they were rightly entitled. Dr.
Evatt and other “Labor” leaders chimed
in, blaming Menzies and Fadden for the
failure of loans, accusing them of caus-
ing, and wanting to cause, unemploy-
ment ; blaming them for rises in living
costs. Just at the finish Prices Minister
Finnan added a little bit of prophecy—an
unsubstantiated yarn that tea would
shortly go up Is. a pound.
The win puts the Cahill Government
in a rather strange position. It is a “go-
ahead” sign for an early election before
the wind changes: Support won on fear
can only be held while the fear continues,
and there is no guarantee that Cahill will
be able to blame the shortcomings of his
Government on Canberra in 12 months’
time. On the other hand, with the clear
majority in the House given him by the
win, he can no longer claim any urgency
for an election.
As the by-election was won on Federal
issues, its impact on Canberra is of more
importance than on N. S. Wales politics.
Dr. Evatt is cock-a-hoop and already sees
power within his grasp ; and there will
doubtless be counsellors within the Gov-
ernment camp urging it to compromise on
its financial policy in order to win back
popularity with the electors. This it
cannot do. The Government must stick
to its guns.
Odd Poll Figures.
There was something odd about the Ash-
field poll. Last election there were 24,798
on the roll; in this election the number
is reported to be only 22,647. Therefore,
since last election, 2151 electors have gone
away.
There were more votes (23,140) cast
at the 1950 poll than there were on the
roll altogether at this election. And of
those 1950 votes 13,296 were cast for the
Liberal candidate, Mr. Athol Richardson
(whom the Cahill Government, with a
departure from form, recently put on the
N. S. Wales Supreme Court Bench), and
only 9559 for the “Labor” candidate.
The Liberals won by 3737.
Yet “Labor,” polling only 927 votes
more than last time, has won by 873
votes! In other words, with those 927
votes it has overhauled its leeway to the
extent of an aggregate of 4610 votes,
equal to more than one-third of the
whole of the Liberal vote at the last elec-
tion ; and nearly 50 per cent, of its own
vote at last election.
It is certainly a curious election from
that point of view, and the Liberal party
should study it very closely and provide
a public analysis to explain it. Either
Liberal voters were remarkably negligent
or almost all the electors who have left
the electorate are Liberals, apart from
those who provided the swing.
What "Inspired" Burton.
London papers have received from
Washington text of the alleged “con-
fession” about having dropped germ-
bombs on North Korea by a captured
American airman of the U.N. forces, on
which Soviet and Peking radio-propa-
ganda has based its fantastic charges.
This is the “statement” —by Lieut. Ken-
neth, from Ohio :
I have seen the truth as printed hy the
democratic Chinese Press, and all these
truths and kind treatment show all the
more clearly the lies and untruthful war
propaganda of the Wall-street radio and
Press I am determined to struggle for
peace against Wall-street capitalism, to
clear my conscience of past errors. I am
filled with determination to join the peace-
loving camp.
Say, guy, what is this stuff? How-
ever, it “inspired” that much-publicised
citizen of Canberra, Dn Burton,
and his colleagues on the “peace”-
mission at the Peking Communist con-
ference. Anybody who can believe that
any young American uses that sort of
language to express his thoughts is too
credulous to be allowed out without a
guardian.
That sophisticated radio-spokesman
for the “Labor” caucus (or for some of
it), Mr. Allan Fraser, M.P., leapt to
denounce “the smearing” of Dr. Burton
by the Sydney A.L.P. Mr. Fraser has
been no less “inspired” than Dr. Burton
by the American airman’s “confession,”
and he denounces as “extraordinarily
shocking” the statement “by a paid official
of the party” who told the Sydney Press
that “the only people supporting Dr.
Burton were Communists and disruption-
ists.” “Dr, Burton,” said Mi*. Fraser,
had “repeatedly shown himself strongly
opposed to Communism, yet a constant
endeavor is being made to brand him as
a Communist or a Communist sympa-
thiser, and the same mud”
At the weekend the N.S.W. executive
of the A.L.P. duly “smeared” him, banned
his Peking conference and the local com-
mittee which sent him there, and declared
aU members of the party who adhered
to either to be “automatically expelled.”
A.C.T.U. as Com. Ally.
The Clerks’ Union has followed the
Ironworkers’ Association in clearing out
its Communist bosses on a secret ballot,
conducted by Commonwealth electoral
officers at request of rank-and-file
members under the Menzies Government’s
amending arbitration law.
A similar ballot, resisted for weeks by
Communist Brown of the Victorian
branch of the Railways Union, is now in
a fair way to be held. The electoral
Officer has requested of the Victorian
Railway Commissioners addresses of its
union employees for receipt of ballot-
papers, which had been refused as im-
practicable by the Communist union-boss.
Comrade Brown’s unsuccessful efforts to
change rules of the union to permit his
retention of his controlling office without
re-election is reasonable evidence of how
he expects the secret ballot to go.
In N.S.W. the A.L.P. industrial-groups’
secretary says he is confident that clean
union elections would expel Communist
officials entrenched in the boilermakers’,
miners’, wharfies’, postal-workers’ and
blacksmiths’ unions.
Yet the A.C.T.U., having nerved itself
after long hesitation to order a bunch
of these Commo-bossed unions to break
away from the Moscow W.F.T.U., is now
permitting them to temporise over com-
pliance with that instruction. They are
“suspended,” not expelled, and for a
period during which the rebel executives
declare their decision cannot be altered.
Meanwhile the A.C.T.U. has backed one
of them, the Watersiders’ Federation,
in its defiance of the Arbitration
Cmy;t. Judge Kirby had ordered
removal of the union’s ban on
overtime, and when it refused to obey
granted the Stevedoring Industry Board’s
application to cancel the attendance-
money provisions of the same award
which required necessary overtime to be
worked.
The A.C.T.U. is also concerned to
“preserve union solidarity”—a united
front, that is, by loyal and rebel execu-
tives alike —for resistance to the approach-
ing claim before the court for a review
of the reduced working week. The 40-
hour week award made mandatory the
working of reasonable overtime.
The A.C.T.U. has given the Com-
munist executive in the W.W.F. its per-
mission and endorsement for direct action
against the court’s authority. It is an
attempt to browbeat the court in advance
of a hearing. A similar move by the then
Communist-run Ironworkers’ Associa-
tion at the outset of the 40-hour hearing
in 1947 brought down on the A.C.T.U.
a demand from the Bench for an assur-
ance from itself and from all unions that
these tactics must be renounced as a con-
dition prerequisite to a hearing.
The wharfies and the seamen between
them, under Communist bosses who
resist to the death clean union elections,
have been the chief cause in raising the
cost of shipping freights by 500 per cent,
since 1939, says the chairman of the 5.1.8.
This sabotage of a basic transport service
has been, under Communist policy, aimed
at wrecking the Australian economy by
raising costs of goods and services to
breaking-point. The strain is already at
unemployment-point, and the responsi-
bility is fairly laid upon these organisers
of lawlessness acting in malice prepense.
George Pearce.
‘‘El V.’s” farewell:
With the death of George Pearce —the “Rt.
Hon. Sir George Foster Pearce, K.C.V.0.,”
though few of his familiars of the great days
before World War I would recognise him in
that guise—only two veterans of the First
Parliament of the Commonwealth remain. One
is King O’Malley, father of Canberra (which
he wished to call Myola); the other, W. M.
Hughes.
George Pearce was born in Mt. Barker (S.A.),
in Archie Cameron’s present electorate, son of
the village blacksmith who turned into a rolling
stone. George rolled with him. In the depression
of the early ’nineties he went to W.A., joined in
the rushes which followed the discovery of
Coolgardie, married at 24 and took his first
beating in an election contest by a Coolgardie.
millionaire, W. G. Brookman, who gave him a
heavy licking in the Legislative Council poll
for the metropolitan suburban province.
He was in the forefront of the operations
of the Federal League, which demanded a vote
on the Constitution —and got it. And on
March 29, 1901, he found himself, with
Staniforth Smith and Alex Matheson, elected
for six years to the Senate. He was a certainty
for the Fisher Ministry of 1908-9 as Minister for
Defence, and ordered the first three destroyers
for Australia’s Commonwealth Defence Scheme.
He had the same position in the second Fisher
Government.
His Defence Act Amendment Act made
universal compulsory training a reality. The
first flying-schools were organised under his
Ministry, also the first air unit which Australia
possessed, and the Army was equipped to a
point that made the equipment of the First
Division A.I.F. a routine matter when the
time arrived. Throughout World War 1,
except for the brief interlude of the Cook
Ministry, he was Minister for Defence, and
had responsibility for the organisation of the
Australian Imperial Forces under the Prime
Minister, and it was he who suggested the
selection of S. M. Bruce as Treasurer. He was
Australia’s representative at the Washington
Disarmament Conference, and remained a
perennial Minister whenever the Nationalists
were in office until 1937.
S. M. Bruce once quoted the late Lord
Balfour as saying that he regarded George
Pearce as the “greatest natural statesman he
had ever met”; and Bruce himself testified
that during his seven years as Prime Minister
Pearce was his fidus Achates and prime adviser
—“the wisest and most courageous counsellor
of them all.” Few who knew him from the
outside would care to go the whole way in
endorsing these verdicts. He was astute. He
knew politics inside-out. But he was always
a second-fiddle in the Parliamentary orchestra,
though a good one.
Breweries and Hotels.
General-managers of the two chief
brewing concerns in N. S. Wales were
before the royal commission on liquor
last week. Although it was revealed that
Toohey’s Mr. Callaway is a teetotaller
and Tooth’s Mr. Watson isn’t, and that
Mr. Callaway entertains inter-State
visitors at nightclubs and Mr. Watson
hasn’t been inside one for over 10 years,
(Continued on next page.)


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A.. 8.50.,
With "Bob" on the Job!
you’ll find life easier—in the workshop,
office, home or on the farm. “Bob” is a
sturdy stapling and tacking tool that’s
worth its weight in gold for fixing labels,
posters, gauze; for mending shoes, belts,
bags, harness, covers; for making boxes,
folders, toys, for installing wires and for
a thousand other jobs. Besides tacking
and stapling, it drives nails in corners
where a hammer’s useless. “Bob,” with
two locking levers, a steel plate for
clinching, a magnet and about 1000
assorted stainless staples, all in a solid
wooden box, costs 29/6 (postage 27-
extra). It would make an ideal gift.
Send Order Today /—DOMEX TRADING CO.
(Dept. 22E), 248 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
tym jm
m
m
BRANDAUERS
PENS
¥
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
Imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
COARD
Ca^h
PROTECTA
sUnl -
Suitable for every type of basinesr II record*
*ll Sale*. Credit*. Payout* etc. Strongly bollt,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Rook Co. (Aust)
w
there was a lot in common in the evidence
of the two men.
Watson told the commission he con-
sidered the general public benefited from
multiple-ownership of hotels, either by a
brewery or by a family. Under such a
system it was possible to take a long view'
and build up assets. His firm leased some
of its hotels to licensees ; others were
conducted by managers. He felt the lease-
system was the better of the two, as it
“meant a constant influx of enterprising
and enthusiastic people willing to put in
their own money.” Extension of the
manager-principle would eventually mean
a number of unenterprising licensees.
His brewery frowned on partnerships,
except of husband-and-wife or sometimes
a family partnership. Other partnerships
often “led to trouble.” When Watson
said that the great majority of
hotelkeepers were “sound and keen
to do the right thing for the general
public,” Mr. Justice Maxwell remarked
“You may be right, but I have not yet
reached a stage of being able to say the
evidence warrants that. At present I am
not satisfied about it.”
Toohey’s general-manager, Eric Calla-
way, said that in general he supported
Watson’s evidence. Some of his com-
pany’s hotels were leased, some were
under managers. Toohey’s did not object
to partnerships. They had “on rare
occasions” received letters complaining of
excess prices, but the hotelkeepers had
always denied it.
In regard to “tied” houses, Callaway
said that his brewery, like Tooth’s,
insisted on the tie only as far as bulk beer
was concerned. Asked whether his firm
took any steps to satisfy itself on the
suitability of its licensees to serve the
community, he said they had done what
they considered they had power to do in
this respect, but had sometimes been
deceived.
The commission will sit again today
before adjourning for the law vacation.
POLITICAL POINTS
J Although the Postal Department con-
stantly urges the public to address
envelopes clearly and distinctly, its officials
pride themselves on their ingenuity in
deciphering the indecipherable. Some-
thing more than ingenuity seems to be
involved in the delivery in Sydney
suburban letter-boxes of envelopes bear-
ing full letter-rate postage and a Brisbane
postmark and with the solitary word
HOUSEHOLDER printed on the face.
They contain application-forms for tickets
in the Queensland Government’s Golden
Brisket. As this mail is definitely handled
by the postal authorities in Brisbane and
appears to be delivered by postmen in
Sydney there seems to be a case for Mr.
Cahill’s Mr. Downing to ask Mr.
Menzies’s Mr. Anthony why he is helping
Mr. Gair’s Mr. Moore to advertise a
“foreign” lottery in N. S. Wales.
MaGeraghty isn’t any longer.
The Victorian Country party will not
approach the Liberal-Country party for
a coalition. The L.-C.P. will not approach
the C.P. for a coalition. This was stated
by the respective leaders, Half-Premier
McDonald and Norman. McDonald was
then asked whether he would yield to
Half-Premier Cain’s demand for four
more city seats in a redistribution of
electorates. “Redistribution,” said Mac,
“will be considered in due course.” Cain
will see to that.
Professing to take the Ashfield result
as an endorsement of his policy of spend-
what-you-can’t-get, Premier Cahill in-
tends to press at the Loan Council meet-
ing for bigger and better loans. In the
present state of the loan-market it is
interesting to ponder on the fact, to which
Professor Copland drew attention in an
address to the Constitutional Association
of N. S, Wales, that those who are
clamoring most for loans are the very
ones who insist on low rates of interest.
On the same occasion Copland pointed
out that, although the current volume of
savings was insufficient to support the
level of investment at the rate obtain-
ing in recent years, an additional saving
of 5 per cent, of national income would
mean another £l5O million available for
development and a rise of 5 per cent, in
total productivity would release a similar
sum. In other words, a slight lowering of
living standards and a little more hard
work would release all the money we need
for current development. The argument
won’t appeal to those who, like “Labor”
politicians, prefer to think that prosperity
can be won by consuming more and pro-
ducing less.
First act of the Maritime Services
Board in Sydney under the management
of ex-Premier McGmrr is to increase
berthing, wharfage and harbor rates by
25 per cent., although before McGmrr
was “retired” on to this State business
undertaking it was still managing to show
a surplus. As even McGrrrrr’s influence
could hardly make itself felt so soon it can
only be assumed that this sudden con-
version of profit into loss is an example
of intelligent anticipation of his arrival.
The assertion of Kennelly, general-
secretary of the A.L.P., that “Labor alone
can sayp this nation” could be dismissed
as a vainglorious boast were it not that
its real meaning has been made clear by
so many of the party since the 1949
election. What he really should have
said is that “Labor” will not help any
other party to save the nation. It will,
in fact, hinder and hamper all efforts
to do so. One of its most vociferous
leaders said a couple of years ago “If we
can’t govern we’ll make sure nobody else
can,” and that spirit still pervades the
party.
Myxomatosis can’t be so effective after
all. America has just decontrolled mink-
coats.
While the electors of Ashfield, under
the influence of “Labor’s” panic propa-
ganda based on talk of an unemployment
pool and another depression, were re-
turning a “Labor” member for the first
time in history the roads through the
electorate were jammed with cars bound
for the reopening of Warwick Farm race-
course, where 37,000 people struggled in
totalisator queues to “invest” £134,000.
The bridge over Cabramatta Creek,
which has taken longer to complete than
Sydney Harbor Bridge, was hurriedly
finished off for the occasion. But that
other great Socialist enterprise, the Black-
town State Tileworks, is still failing to
relieve the shortage of roofs over the
people’s heads.
Death of Sir George Pearce reduces to
two the survivors of the first Common-
wealth Parliament —W. M. Hughes, still
there at 87, and King O’Malley, long
retired, but anything up to 10 years older
than Billy. Pearce was 82,
Melbourne “Herald” says that a
“steady drop in output” of something or
other (files and forms, maybe) from a
“section of a Federal department in Can-
berra” has so disturbed the Public Service
Board and “senior officers” of the depart-
ment concerned that “a noted industrial
psychologist has been asked to investigate
the low morale in the section.” Oughtn’t
he begin investigating the senior officers?
Potatoes were again before the court
last week when the N. S. Wales Supreme
Court heard an appeal from a shopkeeper
who had been fined £5 for allegedly re-
ceiving potatoes “not packed in accord-
ance with the regulations.” The shop-
keeper’s story was that he had bought the
spuds from a grower “to avoid paying
blackmarket prices at the City Markets.”
The majority decision of the court was
that the regulation under which the charge
was laid was framed in too general terms
and was therefore ultra vires and in-
operative. It was not restricted to
potatoes belonging to the Potato Board
alone, and could apply to a person who
bought potatoes at a retail shop and was
given them in a package that did not
comply with the regulation. Appeal up-
held, with costs against the board.
FOUND: One Director of State Coal
Mines. On Thursday Mr. J. M. Baddeley
came out of hiding—or hibernation —
and announced the opening of a new State
coalmine near Singleton (N.S.W.). He
mentioned that work was begun on the
mine tunnel last January. There’s appar-
ently a slight mistake somewhere ; he’s
been missing much longer than that.
Melbourne Tramways Union is
threatening to send inspectors to invade
the board’s crammed juggernauts and turf
off all of the perpendicular population
exceeding 12, in observance of the rule
that only a dozen standing passengers are
allowed on one vehicle at one time. As
approximately 70 is the figure in most
trams at peak times, this should lead to
an immense increase in the pedestrian
traffic along the footpaths, which are
already impassable at most times, and a
consequent drop in tramway income.
Canberra announces that there is now
one motor-vehicle for every 5.9 Aus-
tralians. At that rate there’ll soon be
nearly as many motor-vehicles as public
servants.
Two instances last week of how high
costs are producing unemployment.
Tenders to Sydney County Council for
sets of high-voltage electrical equipment
were 48 per cent, higher from a local firm
than from a British tenderer (including
freight and exchange). One councillor
said for similar tenders in 1948 the Aus-
tralian price was 19.8 per cent, above the
British and in 1950 31 per cent. This
price-spiral shows a compound rise of
50 per cent, every two years. At this
rate by 1956 Australian costs would be
double those overseas, freight and
exchange thrown in.
The other instance was announcement
by a Sydney subsidiary of A.C.I. that
production of crystal cut-glass would
soon cease “because high wages plus the
40-hour week” had forced up the price
of crystal beyond capacity of the
customers to pay it.
We speak a strange language these
days. Thus Melbourne “Age” proclaims
in large headlines: Unemployment Grows
Worse, Vacancies Drop by 12,975 in
Month. The item proceeded to tell that
“the number of vacancies for work”
dropped during May by 12,975 “to only
45,590.” Until recent times the fact that
45,590 vacancies for work existed would
have been interpreted as meaning that
there was that number of jobs offering
in excess of men available to fill them.
Now it apparently means that there is
an unemployment pool of threatening
dimensions.
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill, concluding
a eulogy of the great work his Govern-
ment has done to bring to the people “a
new prosperity and a new security” ;
“Who dares say we have not acted
promptly and in a practical way at all
times?” Who, indeed!
The British Socialist Union has dis-
covered that soaking the rich won’t solve
modern economic problems, and has
further discovered that nationalisation of
everything merely creates “a new ruling
class that has become one of the most
merciless ruling classes in the world
today.” So that’s what bureaucracy is!
Dr. Evatt is now touring Queensland,
inspecting “Labor” - party electoral
arrangements and rural production
problems. If he wants to know how to
win office and stay there he should inspect
Queensland “Labor’s” electoral - roll
system.
Newspaper correspondents have been
expressing some curiosity as to when
television will come to Australia and
what its effects will be. If it is applied to
Parliamentary broadcasts a lot of poli-
ticians will become victims to t.v.
Fifteen months ago medical supplies
donated by the Swiss Government were
taken to Hong Kong by the president of
the International Committee of the Red
Cross. Their destination was North
Korea, where they were intended for dis-
tribution to sick and wounded p.-0.-w.
and civilian victims of the war. They are
still in Hong Kong, and all requests to
Peking for co-operation in getting them
to North Korea are met with the answer
that it is a matter which “depends on the
agreement of the North Korean Govern-
ment,”
When four officials were acquitted on
charges of any responsibility (as the
management) for the disaster in Knock-
shinnock colliery in Scotland, and the
Crown appealed against the acquittal, the
Lord-Justice General, dismissing the
appeal, said:
It is impossible to lay responsibility on
any individual or individuals when the
hands of the manager or managers are tied
and their eyes blindfolded by the hierarchy
of officials responsible for planning and
production... .The duties are distributed
among a corps of officials so that what is
everybody’s business is nobody’s business.
The “Colliery Guardian” supported the
Lord-Justice’s remarks, and said this was
one of the results of nationalisation of the
mines. “Formerly a mine-manager was
like the captain of a ship, and, apart from
questions of fact, rarely if ever attempted
to shelter himself from charges of this
kind. Today few managers are in a posi-
tion to exercise their own judgment.”
Federal land tax was introduced to
break up big estates and settle more
people on the land. In 1910 50 p.c. of
the people lived on the land. Today the
percentage is 42.
Recently the operation of the N.S.W.
laws restricting the buying of bricks with-
out an official permit wa* suspended.
Anyone may now buy bricks freely. In
the Commonwealth sphere it was
announced that import restrictions on
books were “relaxed.” In both cases, as
in similar cases. Press statements were to
the effect that the controls had been
“lifted.” Let no man suppose they have
been abolished. They are still there and
ready for use any time the bureaucrats
feel like using them. It is 20 times more
difficult to abolish an official “control”
than it is to instal one —and Australians
should remember that if they value their
freedom.
Announced that the Federal Govern-
ment “hopes that within a few years New
Guinea will be able to supply all Aus-
tralia’s coffee-requirements.” Not if a
coffee-control board is set up, as seems
inevitable,
“Yair”: A criticism of Australians by
a recent visitor was that we growl about
politics too much ; he claimed that poli-
ticial satire is a modern pastime border-
ing on the dim-witted. Well, unless a
bloke called Su Tung-p’o was merely giv-
ing a lefthanded compliment, the follow-
ing verse of his (translated by Waley)
indicates that satire isn’t so modern. Su
Tung-p’o graced the world from 1036 to
1101. He said, regarding his son’s birth:
Families, when a child is born
Want it to be intelligent.
I, through intelligence,
Having wrecked my whole life,
Only hope the baby will prove
Ignorant and stupid.
Then he will crown a tranquil life
By becoming a Cabinet Minister.
“C.Q.”: I hated to toss out my sitting
member in the recent Victorian Legisla-
tive Council election. I felt quite sorry
that the poor chap should lose his dis-
tinguished position and membership of
the most luxurious club in Melbourne.
What would he do now? Then I learnt
that he and his other defeated colleagues
would continue to cost me and my fellow-
electors something like £4500 a year for
the remainder of their lifetime.


;C°Me Tq
/\i]p basx in
L 5 *
0 u FoR
ŵ
7 ss
REDCUVFFE
GOEST
ẁ
WRONG ISLAND.


<y>
Jn
ẅ
—
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
• ~
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
#
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
v«
£
*3
j:
TME
FOR
M
A
Or
IBBBSaaBBBiBBBIBifI
I'BBBBBBBBBBBBIiSBI
KBBBBBBBBBBBBfIBBi
iriBBBBBBBBIBnr|
MBBBBBBBBfIfIIB'
BBBBiBaBIBHBrJ
BBBBiMHWBr
[Sfiliß'J
iIKMBHHBBk
gmaaa
iisasissßSsliiiiin
atsassassss*
■BIO™™
BBBSSSSSI
IBBBBBBBBBBHBBBBBBBBBI
BBffiBBBBBBHIiaSBBBiBSQBI
MBSBBBBBBHBBRSBBBBRBBI
IiBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBI
IBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHBI
BfIBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBPUiIBiBi
JBSB1BBBBB1BBSES? i '"*s"
APSTAN
THEY'RE
BLENDED BETTER
'J
‘2s*
CAPSTAN Special Mild
RED PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
mboj,si
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Higher Interest Rates?
The Australian bond market
in a mess. Possibly the greatest
single blow to its stability was
the conversion or redemption (at
fhe Treasury’s option) of the
depression-converted 4 p.cs. a
year or so ago, when the long-
term rate was 3i p.c. At the
same time there has been a
world-wide trend towards higher
lending rates, and in Australia
investment funds available have
constricted.
Professor Copland at the
moment is crusading for higher
interest rates, which have already
risen by 10s. per cent, from the
long-term bond-rate of £3 ss.
per cent, to which post-war Aus-
tralian investors had become
accustomed.
In order to encourage capital
investment, including the intro-
duction of funds from overseas,
Sir Douglas Copland suggests
that the interest rate on all exist-
ing Commonwealth bonds should
be increased by 10s. per cent.
He said last week:
The rate of interest has hardened,
and no techniques short of gross
inflationary expedients can produce
further capital for public or private
ventures at rates approaching those
in the immediate post-war period.
The bond market could be en-
couraged to meet the new situation
at a reasonable rate if bonds were
made negotiable for the payment of
death duties and if interest on the
bonds floated at low rates in the
past were raised.
All existing bonds should have
their interest rate increased by one-
half per cent.
It would then be possible to regard
the new rate as the maximum to
which the bond market would go
and later loans might be possible at
lower rates.
Copland pointed out that the
rate of fixed capital investment
had risen from 10 per cent, of
our gross national product in
1945-46 to 19 p.c. in 1950-51.
But the present volume of
savings was totally inadequate to
support the level of investment.
This is very true, as The
Bulletin has been at pains to
demonstrate in recent issues.
Raising the rate of interest may
• encourage the rate of savings
even on our present low level of
productivity ; but for a bearable
increase in savings a greater per
capita output of goods and
services is more necessary.
Steel Prices Increased
On June 25 the price of
foundry pig-iron in Australia
rose by £3 ss. a ton (to
£lB 7s. 6d.). Steel and other
products of the B.H.P. group
have also been raised with the
sanction of the Prices Com-
missioners.
Large increases in steelworks
wages, higher cost of coal and
limestone and dearer shipping
freights are given as the main
reason for the increases. It is
claimed that, except for minor
items, B.H.P. still produces the
world’s cheapest steel.
The sharemarket showed no
interest in the higher prices
allowed to B.H.P. and Australian
Iron and Steel, B.H.P. shares
weakened slightly, to 425. 9d,,
yielding 3.9 p.c. on an 8f p.c.
div. basis,
Hohoro No. 2 Abandoned
“Lemon”: The statement by
Australasian Petroleum that the
Hohoro No. 2 test-well has been
definitely abandoned as the result
of a gamma-ray survey of the
formations penetrated in the
bore rings down the curtain on
one of the most courageous and
skilful attempts to drill for oil
under stratigraphical and struc-
tural conditions which are among
the worst the industry has ever
recorded.
Hohoro No. 1 well was
spudded-in during March, 1949,
and took a full year of heart-
breaking work and setbacks to
reach 4721 ft., at which it was
abandoned. Drilling was com-
menced at Hohoro No. 2 in
February, 1951, and reached a
depth of 4220 ft. in under two
months, thus raising hopes that
the new location was sited on
less-troubled ground than No. 1.
By the end of the year the
“When I wuz your age these suckers wuz only a penny."
“running-mudstone” zone, which
had hitherto baffled all attempts
at drilling, had been penetrated
and casing was set at 9973 ft.
This, as the A.P. Co.’s general-
manager justly claimed, was “a
story of effort and achievement,”
and it was legitimately assumed
that the treacherous Papuan
heaving-shale, for the first time,
had been conquered.
As was anticipated, drilling
below this depth was slower, the
footages penetrated being 169 in
January, 358 in February and
142 in March, 1952, when a
depth of 10,642 ft. was attained.
The strata had continued to be
extremely unstable and dis-
turbed and yielded no indications
of gas or oil. It was considered,
therefore, that the chances of
striking oil within the limited
additional footage in the capacity
of the rig were so remote that
they did not justify the expendi-
ture of further time and money,
and the decision to stop boring
and to test the formations
already penetrated was made.
The formation-survey has now
been carried out by means of
gamma-ray equipment, and the
data obtained do not offer hope
of small production, even where
indications, during drilling,
appeared to be not unfavorable.
Although it is a disappoint-
ment to all concerned that such
a splendid and sustained effort,
which involved the expenditure
of over £500,000 on site and the
employment of drilling experts of
world reputation, should not
have met with commercial
success, some consolation may
be drawn from the fact that the
data obtained have verified, for
the first time, the theories held
by a few geologists as to the
sub-surface characteristics of the
Hohoro type of structure, and
that it will now be possible to
apply such knowledge to the
interpretation and evaluation of
similar structures both in Papua
and on the mainland.
It is rather a melancholy
thought, however, that the instru-
ment which was the ultimate
cause of the abandonment of
drilling at Hohoro is a develop-
ment of the Geiger-counter,
which has raised such hopes of
dollar (uranium) luxury on the
mainland.
The Butter Industry
In the skirmishing over
possible butter trade across the
Tasman, New Zealand isn’t in a
hurry. Countries with food sur-
pluses to sell don’t lack markets
these days, and Maoriland, with
its growing output of butter,
cheese and meat, is in the
happiest position ever. John
Bull is taking the lion’s share
under bulk contracts, which give
him first claim on at least 85 p.c.
of N.Z. dairy produce, however
much is shipped, and this leaves
only 15 p.c. for all other
markets, of which the most
lucrative are in the dollar area.
The optional volume might be
around 25,000 tons this season,
against a possible 160,000 tons
sold to the principal buyer, and
this seems a good deal less than
New Zealand could sell to other
buyers if it had it. Therefore,
Maoriland is in a fairly strong
bargaining position. It has been
keenest to build up its dollar
connection, which is still shaky,
because that is where most profit
is, and this has a bearing on its
' attitude towards immediate pros-
pects of doing business with
Australia.
No doubt a regular supply of
butter will begin to flow across
the Tasman in due time, but this
won’t happen quickly.. William
Marshall, chairman of the Dairy
Products Marketing Commis-
sion, is closely watching Aus-
tralian output and demand, and
is confident that before many
more years Australia will be a
regular • buyer.
New Zealand’s strongest card
is the contraction in world sur-
pluses, which encourages it to
push ahead with dairying ex-
pansion with redoubled vigor.
The £1 shares in Metropolitan
Portland Cement, Ltd., are down
to 9s. in the sharemarket, even
though the co. has been per-
mitted by the Prices Minister to
charge 50 p.c, more for its
cement than other companies.
No accounts are yet to hand for
the year to December 31 last;
18 months ago the co. owed the
State - owned Rural Bank
£1,302,745. How long the co.’s
cement will be able to command
a premium over other companies’
will partly depend on whether
cement remains in short supply,
partly upon whether it has any
term contracts at the higher
price.


Longer, wider, roomier,
lovelier than ever before .
J?\& Jaiglis!| aw
ii ii
12 H.P. WYVERN AND 18 H.P. VELOX
The 2 new Vauxhall models with the flush-sided body design are exciting en-
thusiastic praise everywhere. Both models are alike in dimensions and styling
but so different in driver appeal. For outstanding economy with truly surprising
performance, the thrifty 12 h.p. 4-cylindcr Wyvem is for you. While, for
flashing top-gear performance and worthwhile economy the 18 h.p. 6-cylinder
Velox has no peer. Completely new suspension front and rear provides
exceptional road holding. Ask your local Vauxhall dealer for details.
OUTSTANDING FEATURES OF THESE BEST EVER VAUXHALLS
All-steel welded integrally constructed Saloon
body, of new and advanced design.
Single-piece bonnet opens either side.
Three-speed gearbox, Vauxhall controlled
synchromesh on top and second.
Completely new suspension system . . .
Independent front wheel springing of coil
and wishbone type. Long, extra-wide leaf
type semi-elliptic springs at rear.
New Hypoid rear axle more robust,
quieter and smoother in operation.
G.M.A.C. Confidential Payment Plan
. . . Ask your Dealer to explain the
G.M.A.C. Confidential Payment Plan.
“AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO . . . There’s
an “Air Chief”, Australia’s finest car
radio, specially designed for Vauxhall.
Full 5-6 Passenger Seating . . .
Both Vauxhall Velox and Wyvern
with increased wheelbases and
tracks give spreading comfort for
five or six ... space for a full load
of holiday luggage . . . better
riding and safe, sure handling.
YAUXHALL
4-Cyl. O.H.V, iVyvern — 6-Cyl. O.H.V. Velox
A General Motor* Product
GENERAL M OTO RS -HO L DE N’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia. VES/24NP
The FINEST
COOKER mTH^ORLB
p
ft
%
w
Cooking with the Aga is so clean, and cool,
and simple! In fact, the Aga will cook a
dinner for you all by itself, unwatched. Choose
the Model C. 8., and you will also have the
comfort of a splendid hot water service; ample
hot-water for all kitchen needs, and three
baths a day. Economical fuel consumption is
guaranteed and the hot water service is run
from the one small single fire. Life with Aga
is so easy!
THE
AGA
COOKER
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
Tire British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N. 2. in 1841)
W Sole Australian Agents for the AGA
COOKER and the BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES ______ - 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA ______ Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ —A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Advances Control
Apart from a slight difference
in pressure, there isn’t a great
deal to pick and choose between
bank controls on one side of the
Tasman and on the other. The
main difference is in capacity to
conform to tighter credit and all
that goes with it, in which Maori-
landers, because of their more
buoyant export trade, hold the
advantage. Features common to
both countries have been: Over-
much reliance on credit to sup-
plement capital under the spur
of the cost-price-wage spiral;
overconfidence in the dubious
virtues of cheap money; and
overdiversion of bank funds into
non-liquid channels.
Because of these tendencies,
pursued deliberately and in dis-
regard of consequences, the
banks and business were all in
difficulty together when the big
squeeze came. The banks hadn’t
the elbow-room they needed and
business was already leaning on
them so heavily that it couldn’t
look for much more support.
Both were worse off because of
the loss of elasticity which is one
of the great assets of a banking
system.
In the loosening-up process, a
good deal depends on how con-
sumer demand responds to, and
stands up to, price - cutting
appeals and sales campaigns,
which have been following some-
what the same line in New
Zealand as in Australia, but with
more restraint. There hasn’t
been a great deal of unprofitable
trading in Maoriland yet, and
that, so far as it goes, is a reason-
ably healthy sign. Profits are
narrower, but with turnovers up
most N.Z. cos. have netted more
for the latest term, which ended
just as they were running into
leaner times.
Up to now M.L. business has
been more or less under-
capitalised, and this has been
cramping cos. so much that
they’d have to do something
about it if trade kept moving at
anything like the present pace.
Even if they were content to go
on bridging, the gap by overdraft
the banks wouldn’t let them. But
they won’t be scratching for
funds so hard after this. At least,
that’s the fairly widely-held view
in Maoriland.
In the meantime, one big
advantage of trading on credit
under M.L.’s tax system is that
interest on overdrafts is deduc-
tible as a cost item. Cos. chary
about making any permanent
moves to expand don’t have to
think twice when choosing be-
tween borrowing from bankers
or issuing more capital, and until
lately they’ve been fairly free to
decide. Now they’re trying to
hold on pntil the need is past.
This resistance is going to delay
contraction in credit, in spite of
the efforts of the banks.
Import Cuts
Maoriland hasn’t fared nearly
as badly in the matter of
exchange cuts as some moaning
importers have been trying to
make out. If traders hadn’t
lodged such grossly exaggerated
demands for funds when the
Reserve Bank was ordered to
straighten things out some
months ago there wouldn’t have
been a great deal to squeal
about. As they couldn’t have
sold anywhere near this quantity
of stuff if they’d been granted the
funds, their grievance isn’t a real
one anyhow. Makes it appear as
if they’ve forgotten how to trade
in a competitive world and don’t
know how to buy rationally.
They should have learnt their
lesson in the import boom and
its aftermath, which isn’t over
yet; but they lived for so long
under controls that they’ve been
behaving like irresponsible
children again since trade was
placed once more under quota.
This doesn’t make things easy
for the R. 8., which has to sort
out the sheep from the goats and
decide which are the most deserv-
ing cases. Some genuine ones
are bound to be dealt with a bit
harshly when everything has to
be done in a hurry on such a
scale, and Prime Minister Sid
Holland has said there will be “a
lot of aches and pains” for those
who are left out in the cold.
Rough justice seems to be the
most than can be done. At the
same time, Mr. Holland has told
New Zealanders not to be misled
by those who talk wildly about
import trade being “stifled.”
Import spending this year will
be second only to last year's
record, and will be 21 p.c. above
the figures for 1950, which is
taken as the base year for
80 p.c. rationing, thanks to £6O
million thrown in for good
measure after striking the general
average. Altogether, Maoriland
seems likely to come out of the
squeeze fairly lightly, and with
far fewer knocks and real
sacrifices than Australia.
Industrial Muscle
If there’s one thing indus-
trialists in New Zealand need
more than another today it’s
capital to put muscle into their
effort. Large or small, they’re
all in much the same boat. In
every direction they need funds
for expansion of premises,
purchase of plant and financing
of stock —a triple need which is
felt all the more since the banks
told them to look elsewhere for
all but short-term money.
Not so long ago manpower
-was the biggest handicap to
progress; now it’s capital, and
this will be the position for a
long time. It won’t be easy for
industry to stand up to competi-
tion from outside while it is
scratching for funds, or to keep
pace with Maoriland demands
for consumer goods, locally-
manufactured plant and heavy
construction, and cos. are becom-
ing very conscious of this.
They’ve been brought face to
face with the challenge from out-
siders lately, and it has given
many of them a shock to find
that the market they thought
they had such a hold on has been
taken from them so easily.
Overseas suppliers have been
able to run rings around them
when it has come to a test of the
longest purse, and N.Z.’s high-
cost economy has been shaky.
The natural urge has been to
appeal to the Price Tribunal to
stop any undercutting on the
market and to help local enter-
prise to build up reserve strength,
but the P.T., which always looks
at prices from the consumer’s
angle, hasn’t been very respon-
sive. Industry, it seems, will
have to rely mainly on its own
fighting ability, which will be fully
tested in the harder times ahead.
Hotels a “Laughing-stock”
Hotel-owners in New Zealand
are asking how much longer it
will be before they’re allowed to
get down to business and earn
tourist dollars on a scale that
would give a real lift to pros-
perity in the “Shaky Isles.” It
has been a long story of pin-
pricking controls, delays and
frustrations, which still bar the
way to any real progress.
Henry J. Kelliher, head-
serang of Dominion Breweries,
Ltd., and one of the big noises
in the trade, says there’s no
encouragement today to offer
tourists high-class accommoda-
tion, and if they are Yanks that
is the only kind of accommoda-
tion they’re interested in.
Socialist controls, which have
run on, have made Maoriland’s
hotel industry a “laughing-
stock” with wealthy globe-
trotters, according to this worthy,
and N.Z. is the poorer by
millions yearly.
A lot of the soft-spots can be
traced directly to the 40-hour
week, which has put hotel
services on a skeleton basis,
restricted meal hours and left
hotel guests to make the best of
it. Hotel-building has been
more or less at a standstill since
before the war, and is still at the
mercy of the unsympathetic
Building Controller, who has the
final say whether jobs should go
on, as if anyone with the
temerity to tackle building at
today’s inflated costs hadn’t
more than enough to contend
with already.
In the few cases where small
or medium-sized hotels have
been built, against all obstacles,
the equally bureaucratic-minded
and unsympathetic Price
Tribunal sees to it that there is
no profit for the owner, who is
tied down to a cast-iron scale of
charges which has no proper
relationship to present - day
capital or running costs. In a
country where controls are over-
done this must be the high-
water mark.
Waihi Goldmine
Profit slumped to £2639 gross
and £1679 net for Maoriland s
famous 70-year-old goldmine, at
Waihi, in 1951, its final year;
and the owners, the Martha
Gold Mining Co. (Waihi), Ltd.,
with h.q. in London, are now in
the stage of realising on the
assets before closing down. Cash
and securities for years past have
shown a good surplus over paid
capital of £123,977, on top of
which there are the proceeds
from the sale of equipment and
properties. Altogether, there
should be more than enough for
recent buyers of the half-crown
shares, at 3s. on N.Z. Exchanges,
to get their money back.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Uco”; After checking her change on
arrival at the office a Sydney lass felt
certain that the stationmaster at her small
outer-suburban station had undercharged
her a pound for her yearly rail-pass,
bought that morning. She rang him up
and told him so, but he insisted that she
had paid the right amount. Next morn-
ing when she arrived at the station she
saw a notice on the platform-board asking
her to call at the s.m.’s office. With
mixed feelings of triumph and regret
she went in to refund the pound. She
came out again with her feelings even
more mixed, and a pound richer than she
went in. The s.m.’s cash had turned out
a pound over; her transaction, he in-
sisted, had been the only one that could
possibly account for the surplus; she
“She’s eligible, but don't you think she has an unfair advantage?”
must take the quid. Still rather be-
wildered, she decided to invest the wind-
T3so m thC Lott ’ ry ' Result: Fourth P rize >
£350- * „ * ,
“Docas” on an Australian family;
Some people ihink Mr. Phop is a mylh;
he is anything but that. Mr. Phop is so
important that a whole Commonwealth bureau
shadows him wherever he goes, a whole army
of workers who watch while he posts his letters,
time his hours in bed, weigh his lunch, count
his six-o’clock drinks and even pry into his
bank-book. He has no secrets; his life is an
open book —of 1351 pages, with the title Year
Book of the Commonwealth of Australia. In
better days he received his full title of Per
Head of Population, but shortages and the trend
to abbreviations has reduced him to just plain
Phop. Of course, there is a Mrs. Phop. They
were married when she was 25.5 and Mr. Phop
just 29. And as the years passed their five-
roomed dwelling (excluding bathroom, pantry
and laundry, unless permanently used for sleep-
ing) echoed to the patter of little feet —five
little feet, for the Phops were blessed with
two and a half children. Two of them attend
State and private schools, but Sammy, their
half-child, is educated at a Catholic school.
Mr. Phop works 39.96 hours every week, and
his wage feeds the Phops to the tune of
1057.91 b. of foodstuffs, 84 gallons of beverages
and 248 eggs each year for every member of
the family. Except, of course, young Sammy,
who does everything by halves. Approximately
2001 b. each of grain products and fruits com-
prise the largest part of each one’s diet,
augmented by 1581 b. of meat, over half of
which is beef. And, assuming that the children
abstain from the maudlin cup, it would appear
that the Phop parents together drink 80.5 gallons
of beer and 6.3, gallons of wine every year—
rather a sobering thought! In one year Mr.
Phop makes 107 telephone-calls, sends 4.5 tele-
grams, posts 136 letters, 30 newspapers and 3
parcels. When he is 66 Mr. Phop will die,
and for eight long years Mrs. Phop will wear
widow’s weeds. It is probable they will both
die from some heart disease; the odds are five
to two against cancer and intracranial lesions
of vascular origin (more often called “stroke”),
which run equal second-favorites. If Mr. Phop
dislikes such modes of death and chooses
suicide, almost instinctively he will reach for a
firearm. If that is not available he’ll hang
himself. But Mrs. Phop would use such violent
methods grudgingly; her womanly temperament
demands a graceful suicide. Poisoning would
be her first choice; failing that she would
drown herself or die, a faithful domestic to the
last, with her head in her gas-oven. But how-
ever they die they will still live —as long as
the Commonwealth continues to publish its
Year Book.
* * * »
“Melb’n”: A fishing-story from the
flood-areas. The piscatorial skill of an
amateur fisherman, Stan Wright, got the
mails in from Colac (Vic.) and food out
to isolated farmsteads between flood-
bound Apollo Bay and Geelong, where
the Barwon was overflowing. With a
fishing-rod Wright made two mighty casts
across the raging waters and at the second
attempt succeeded. The line was then
used to get a flying-fox in operation. The
distance? One hundred and fifty feet.
* * * *
“Wingy”: Melbourne trams are pretty
cold these mornings, but passengers on
our 8.5 a.m. were treated to a spot of
unexpected warmth when the assistant-
conductor swung aboard and our con-
ductress greeted him with an enthusiastic
“Hellos darling,” and a well-aimed and
reciprocated kiss. Eyebrows were raised
and imaginations ran wild, but those who
heard the ensuing inquiries if he managed
his breakfast, if he left a note for the
baker, if he had done this and that stuck
their heads back behind their papers dis-
appointed that it was only a man-and-wife
affair,
* * * *
“Brisser”; When Brisbane changed the
political color of its city council recently
there was quite a flutter in motor-driving
circles. “Courier-Mail” reported that the
new Lord Mayor had appointed his
brother, “formerly a saddler,” as official
mayoral driver, and that he had been
f'ven several hours tuition” in handling
lh e mayoral car. The previous incum-
bent had been replaced a week earlier
by the driver for the electricitv-denart-
mano„flr . . ~ . J
manager , it was he who gave the
new man the tuition, after which he
returned to the electricity-department,
wherehe found the former mayoral driver
installed as “second driver to that depart-
ment.” After which, presumably, every-
body settled down—until the next change.
* * * *
“Teeperce”: Only person I’ve ever
heard of to derive pecuniary advantage
from being fined was Rusty, batman to
our company O.C. in the Middle East.
Tiring of continually being bossed around
by his batman, the O.C. placed Rusty on
a charge-sheet for “disobeying a lawful
command.” Not being very strong on
A.M.R. and O.s, but scrupulously keen
“He Was just the same as a child—always poking holes in things."
to see that justice was done, the O.C. saw
nothing incongruous in constituting a
company orderly-room, with himself as
both the layer of and adjudicator on the
charge. After questioning and obtaining
the prisoner’s formal admission that ne
was the soldier described in the report,
the O.C. vacated his seat as head of the
tribunal and, addressing the empty chair,
detailed the circumstances of the batman’s
misdemeanor. He then resumed his seat
of office to request and patiently listen
to the prisoner’s account of the alleged
offence. He then brought in a verdict of
guilty with a 10-bob fine, closing the
hearing with the stern caution: “Let this
be a lesson to you, but I don’t want you
to be out of pocket over it. Here’s ten
shillings!” With the exchange position
as it was, Rusty was a few mills ahead,
measuring cash in hand against the pay-
book entry which would follow.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: The question posed in
B. 25/6/’52, “When will the senate of
Sydney University confer degrees on
George and Peter?” prompts me to point
out that Shakspeare apparently knew
these two gentlemen. He wrote in “King
John”:
And if his name be George, I’ll call him
Peter;
For new-made honor doth forget men’s
names.
Obviously we are faced here with a
choice of two interesting possibilities:
(1) that dealers in liquor for certain
Sydney night-clubs go to literature for
their nomenclatural inspiration, or (2)
that the lines are another instance of
intelligent anticipation on Shakspeare’s
part. Possibly most students will favor
the second theory. They may, of course,
be puzzled by the reference to “honor”
causing names to be forgotten, but doubt-
less they will regard that as an example
of Shakspeare’s playful habit of partly
disguising his meaning!
* * * m
“Kelms”: This comes on the authority
of a columnist, but it could be true. A
guest-speaker at a Perth luncheon was
introduced as a widely-travelled man who
was amply qualified to speak on his
subject—The Youth of China, Somewhat
embarrassed, he rose to exjplain that
there was a mistake. The arrangements
had been made over the phone; and the
subject on which he had agreed to speak
was Euthanasia.
* * * *
“Bombardier”: Whoever said the new
Army uniforms were a “minor irritant”
(B. 18/6/’52) was talking through his hat.
Mine is a major nuisance, and I wish the
moths would devour the thing before its
40-odd buttons drive me crazy. I tremble
every time I sit down in the form-fitting
pants, the blouse bulges out indecorously
where my stomach might be if I was 50
years older, and the beret makes me look
like an unsuccessful apache. Enough
Army-issue raven-oil has worn off the
boots to give them a piebald appearance,
and every time I take a deep breath one
of the buttons falls off. The material is
too heavy for summer and too light for
winter, and in almost every respect I vote
it far inferior to the old comfortable
service-dress. But it is, of course, far
smarter; and, on the field of battle, that
makes ail the difference.
“Piper”: Those Melbourne cabl#
trams. In the ’Bo’s the number of slow-
footed citizens they managed to kill pro-
vided a perennial topic of criticism for
The Bulletin, while the more agile Vic-
torians who merely scurried out of their
way made popular subjects for joke-
blocks and humorous verse. Most of this
verse was unsigned, but a Melbourne
journalist, Wesley Caddy, wrote much of
it, until, ironically enough . . . well, this
is what The Bulletin said in 1888: “The
other day, in Melbourne, poor little
Caddy laid down his life beneath a tram-
car. What reams of verse Caddy wrote
for The Bulletin upon other men whose
weary lives were knocked out of them by
the tram! And now, with a certain amount
of poetic consistency, he has shared their
fate. And yet he could hardly have come
to his end more appropriately. With him
the tram-motor was only the embodi-
ment of the Juggernaut of adverse cir-
cumstances he had for years been fight-
ing”. , . After giving biographical notes
the obituary goes on to explain that
Caddy, who was “ill-fated to fight the
fight of the journalist. .went down
before the tram-car of a journalistic
career....He glided through the shades
of his bitter lot with a deprecatory,
ghostlike movement that discounts some-
what the idea of his being killed by any-
thing so rude and tangible as a street-
motor.” What that writer might have
said on the subject of people struck down
by anything “so rude and tangible” as a
motor-car in the hands of a drunken
driver provides awe-inspiring speculation.
* * * *
“Tom”: George IV started the prac-
tice of having boots made specially for
the left and right feet (B. 25/6/’52);
previously they were made to fit either
foot. The interchangeable boots can’t
have had much wrong with them ; our
ancestors did a lot of walking, and some
of the British regiments that served in
India in the 18th and early-19th centuries
had some wonderful marching feats to
their credit.
* * * «
“Minto”: Lost property? On a
crowded Saturday morning the staff of a
big city store were astonished to find a
gigantic double-bass in the aisle. After
two storemen had struggled to the base-
ment with the instrument, bumping
several indignant women in the process,
an excited young fellow came racing to
the office to inquire if a double-bass had
been handed in.
* * * *
“Georgian”: Those who, like
“Sturmer” (B. 11/6/’52), are familiar with
Hobart’s dilapidated railway»station may
be interested to know of stome of the
conditions to which the Tasmanian Mam
Line Railway Company had to agree be-
fore Hobart’s citizens would permit part
of their jealously-guarded Domain to be
alienated. In October, 1872, the com-
pany assured the public through the
Minister of Lands and Works that no
buildings of a “purely utilitarian
character” would face Liverpool-street.
Hobartians of that era were probably
quite clear in their minds just what was
required in a railway-station other than
utility, but the present-day traveller who
enters the Speck’s capital by train is
tempted to suggest that a good roof is
not only useful, but has certain pleasing
aesthetic qualities. By whatever standard
you judge it, however, the railway-station
meets the requirements of Hobart’s late-
19th-century citizens. It is poky, poorly-
ventilated, shabby and badly-designed.
All this, I presume, helps it to conform
to the condition to which the company
had finally to agree before the deal was
clinched: that the station must be “an
ornamental edifice.”
HOME, JAMES!
‘N. 5.,-Wales Cabinet Ministers’ American cars
are to be replaced by 16 new English cars worth
about £2460 each.”
The transport system’s a disgrace
In jolly old N. S. Wales;
The people jolt from place to place
In rattling, rolling jails;
Even the Minister of State,
Yes, that deserving man,
Was asked to share the common fate
In an out-of-date sedan.
But “Labor” Ministers, deah boy,
Are not to be denied;
Unlike the vulgar hoi polloi,
They have their proper pride;
They won’t be seen dead in the street
In American has-beens,
And so they’ve bought themselves a fleet
Of British limousines:
Sixteen limousines, bright and new.
To take them on their rounds
At cost, per car, to me and you
Of twenty-four hundred pounds—
From travellers-in-trams,
From us, can they have sprung?
Such pearls from clams?
Such tulips from such dung?
Less worthy public officahs
Might cravenly have shown
A wish to change the people’s cahs
Before they changed their own;
But on the face of public greed
The “Labor” man must trample—
His not to spoon-feed, but to lead,
And teach us by example.
Besides, the Federal Government
Denied to them the cash
A State department might have spent
On tramcars for the trash,
And so the “Labor” Cabinet
Had no alternative
To getting what it best could get
For what it had to give.
Home, James! Go easy round the curves,
And don’t run off the line!
And may our Ministers have nerves
Stronger than yours and mine;
And may they all have good chauffeurs
From whom pedestrians cower.
Provided by the public purse
To drive them out of power!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“0.W.W.”; Bluey and I went into the
local Greek’s for a feed. When we sat
down Bluey gently shook our table ; then
leaned over and did the same with one
next to us. “Rocky on their pins,” he
declared. “Too many have tussled with
tough steaks. Order fish or eggs.”
;•'• * * * *
“Hist”; The inhumanity of the bureau-
cratic mind! On the night of June 17
the Cowra (N.S.W.) district was “blacked-
out” from 6.15 to 7.20 ; it was not the
district’s “zone-day,” but the so-called
“grey day” preceding it. Nothing remark-
able in that? No, but on June 17 Cowra
was enduring its worst flood for 36 years,
its second-highest on record. Several
hundreds of people were homeless that
night, camping in uncomfortable halls
amid the scanty possessions they had
saved from the water. All through the
day valorous but vain attempts had been
made to locate and rescue two missing
residents believed to be marooned in trees
above the swirling water. How helpful to
the rescue operations for the town to be
left lightless for an hour! And how de-
plorably the darkness must have added to
the mental anguish of the relatives of the
missing. Another angle: at 6.55 p.m.
the district gets its local news-bulletin,
followed by the national news at seven.
How thoughtful of bureaucracy to silence
all the radios during that period!
? * * * *
“Northerner”; Residents of the
Northern Territory townlets Berrimah
and Knuckey’s Lagoon are not taking
very meekly the refusal of Works and
Mew
MUst^
THE
WE-MAN
HARP
CASE
Stoß-ie'
EQ«. *
ME'
MASCULINE
PUBLICATIONS
LTD •
„ Wl
gOXER
100%
.MALE
LIFE
RAW
TOU6H
THE
MALE,
“Yes, I'm the editor."
Housing to supply them with light and
power. The estimated cost would be
about £4OOO, which, they point out, is
about the same as the cost of each room
in the new nurses’ quarters in Darwin,
and also about the same as the cost of
installing one new lavatory at the adminis-
trative offices there. Incidentally, that
lavatory was riot an essential work; the
existing accommodation had nothing
wrong with it that a few gallons of paint
couldn’t have rectified. There’s a sugges-
tion that all Government officials trans-
ferred from Darwin shall be farewelled
by a hurricane-lamp and slush-lamp dis-
play by the people of the affected district
The following advt. which appeared in
the “Northern Standard” also seems to
have some bearing on the matter.
Lost, between Admin, and Works and
Housing, one electricity project for
Berrimah Knuckey’s Lagoon. Finder please
return to Admin. Value £4400. Reward.
Found, one lavatory, vicinity Admin.,
valued £4200. Owner can have same on
payment of costs.
* * * •
“T.McN.”: Nothing like looking on the
bright side. Rockhampton (Q.) show
society upped its ground rent for side-
shows to 10s. a foot. Sideshowmen
refused to pay and stayed away. Gate-
takings fell away and the show-secretary
found a lot of people on his back declar-
ing that it was because of the absence
of sideshows. He thought that over and
then came back with, “Anyway, Rock-
hampton people are about £20,000 better
off because of the money they couldn’t
spend on sideshows.” It’s to be hoped
the locals show their appreciation by
donating some of it to the society.
*-• ♦ * *
“Glen”: Perhaps the Victorian rail-
ways have taken a leaf from the Speck’s
Government Railways book (B. 11/6 / ’52)
as regards making money from odd items.
They have a queue “two years long” for
their newest source of revenue. When
they announced that they were selling
10-ton truckloads of garden manure for
£4 ss. each, scores of telephone-calls
“jammed” the railway switchboard, until
the department regretfully put up the
“Sold-out” sign. Now they have what all
respectable business houses have—a wait-
ing list. Meantime the supply is accumu-
lating as fast as the cleaners can hose
out the cattle-trucks.
* * *
“Old Unionist”; Grotesque as the
question “Any previous occupations?”
might be, put to the ancient pictured by
Lusby in a joke-block of 5/6/’52,
something like it actually happened. A
chap known to me did not make
his first application for a job until he was
63, and his reply to such an inquiry could
have been “None.” Born with the pro-
verbial silver spoon in his mouth, he
simply “knocked around enjoying himself”
until the depression took all his money
and left him finally, after years of pawn-
ing or selling all that remained of his
affluence, flat-broke. The war helped
him to a job as a laborer, and he lost
six jobs through hopeless inefficiency
before he took a tumble to himself. At
over 75 he’s now a shift boss, and a very
efficient one, and he claims he is happier
than at any previous period of his life.
* * * »
“Bo”: One thing that shrieks for the
attention of the Standards Association is
the system of taps and pipes on the bath-
heater and associated shower. It is easy
enough when it is merely a question of
manipulating the thing in one’s own bath-
room, but the taking, or attempted taking,
of a hot shower in a strange bathroom
can be fraught with misery if not actual
peril. I recall the last occasion I stayed
overnight at a friend’s place. Next morn-
ing, essaying to take a hot shower, I
was ushered to the bathroom door by
my host, who indicated airily the bath-
heater, said casually, “There you are —
works the same as all of them ; it’s all
yours,” and with this magnificent gesture
of confidence in my mechanical ability
withdrew. I looked, to be appalled at
what seemed a veritable Chinese puzzle
of pipes and taps, so totally different
from my own simple afrangement. I’d
have called him back and got him to start
the thing, but I feared he’d think tpe
feeble-minded. After undressing I tried
to trace the tortuous convolutions of the
various pipes to their source, and eventu-
ally tracked down and lit the pilot, turned
on both taps and got into the bath. There
was a hissing somewhere, but no water
came out. I approached gingerly and
pulled a lever, almost taking off as a
stfeam of ice-cold water shot over my
“Here you are —and hurry with that line of winter Woollies."
skin. Savagely 1 yanked another lever
and just managed to leap back as almost-
boiling water shot from the overhead
rose, and all my efforts to co-ordinate
both streams so that my hide would
neither be scalded nor frozen proved
vain. I finished up having a form of bath,
as it were, on the instalment plan out
of the cold tap. But why can’t they make
the damn’ things all with the same easy
set-up?
* * * *
“X.S.”: According to Newman Rosen-
thal, Director of Visual Aids, they have
been making dramatic discoveries at the
National Gallery in Melbourne, a second
face having been revealed by X-ray and
infra-red photography under Degas’s
“Portrait of a Wonsan” and a second
hand on a child in the “Rewards of
Philosophy” of Veronese. It would have
been more dramatic if nothing had been
discovered. Almost every artist, not only
the great ones, changes his mind or his
model changes her position and he paints
over some part of his picture. If he is
hard up or short of a canvas he may
paint over an entire picture. I wouldn’t
be surprised if there were a nude under
the solemn surface of Tintoretto’s “Doge
Loredano.” These art experts seem to
be as unsophisticated as the detectives in
a celebrated case where an artist’s model
had been murdered. They found in the
artist’s studio a portrait underneath which
was a partly scraped-off study of the
model. The police psychologists came to
the brilliant conclusion that this was
symbolic murder. When they propounded
their theory to a friend of the artist
he laughed heartily. “If you are going
to arrest somebody on that evidence,”
he said, “you’d better arrest John Long-
staff. He scrapes out more pictures than
any painter I know.”
“Clooter”: The suburb which I dignify
by residence therein has a minor bus-
terminal where the more-or-less regular
travellers swap local gossip and small talk
while waiting. Lately a gang of men
appeared and began erecting a brick con-
struction on a corner of council land.
It dawned on several of us the other
morning that the simplest way to find
out what it was to be was to ask one of
the workers. The one approached had
just come off the job to make the toilers’
morning-tea. “Good-day, Boiling up a
brew?” “That’s right,” “Goes well,
these mornings, I’ll bet.” “That’s right.”
“What are you chaps building here?”
He put tea in the boiling water, pondered,
thep looked up and frankly said, “I
wouldn’t know, mate.” He was sincere
because, as he carried the tea to the job
he said, “I’ll see.” Then the bus came
and we piled aboard As it pulled out
the teamaker stepped to the kerb and
called, “My mate don’t know, either.”
It’s to be hoped the council knows.
* * * *
“Clem Lack”: I always thought the
Sophia Jane, which entered Sydney Heads
from London in May, 1831, was the first
steamer in Australian waters, but in a
Brisbane newspaper file of the ’nineties I
came across an extract from the Sydney
“Australian” of 60 years earlier, describ-
ing the launching on March 31, 1831, of
the steamer Surprise, “the first steam
vessel that ever appeared in this country.”
The reporter of the “Australian” let him-
self go, on the slather of bunting and
huzzas of hundreds of spectators in boats
as the Surprise left Millard’s slip in
Neutral Harbor, North Shore, at the top
of high water, “and floated gracefully
in her native element.” This “specimen
of steam naval architecture” did “infinite
credit to Mr. Millard.” Of nearly 400
tons, she would carry a 10-horse-power
high-pressure engine. Her fastenings were
copper, and her rudder was peculiarly
fitted to work in a groove, not with
pintles standing out from the sternpost.
The “400 tons” seems to be a typo-
graphical error ; the size for a 10-horse-
power engine would more likely be 40
tons.
* * * *
“Timekeeper”: Watchmakers seem to
have a language and a costing system all
of their own. Having dropped my ticker
from a first-floor window, rather to hs
detriment, I took it to a big firm of
jewellers. Their expert tore off the back,
looked at the works knowingly, and said
tersely: “Broken staff. Cost you fifty
shillings.” “Fifty or fifteen?” 1 asked
in a dazed manner. “Three quid,” he
replied harshly. “Got a bent balance-
wheel, too.” I backed out of the shop
murmuring something about coming
back next week, and took it to one of
those little men who live under glass in
arcades. He tore off the back, looked
knowingly at the works, and said happily,
“Loose jewel. Ten-bob.” I closed the
deal on the spot, and fled before he
could notice the broken mainspring.
* * * *
“Jock”: Are we in danger of losing
our characteristic habits of speech and
acquiring the accents of Mayfair and
Burlington Bertie through the infiltration
of migrants from Europe? I know a
group of importees who are enlarging
their vocabulary' with the aid of an
Estonian-English dictionary which ruth-
lessly eliminates the sound' of “r” from
final syllables and pronounces such words
as “ledger” and “winter” “led-jah” and
“wintah.” I heard one of them make an
appointment thus: “I will meet you on
Sattadeh at foah if the weathah is cleah.”
The enunciation could not have been
bettered by Russell Lowell’s comic parson
in his quotation from “Shakspeah”:
“Naow is the wintah of owah discontent
med glawious summah by this sun of
Yawk.”
* * * *
“Derwent”: Despite the efforts of
A.B.C. announcers to popularise the
scallop by making it rhyme with shallop
instead of dollop, the tasty mollusc
shows signs of following the lamb-chops
and other high-priced provender in dis-
appearing from the table. Tasmanian
fish-merchants are finding scallops hard
to sell this season. Half-a-crown a pound
is what the retailer asks over the counter,
but he has to pay 2s. sd. for them to the
wholesaler, who, in turn, hands out
Is. 9d. to the scallop-catchers. The
retailer claims that the only one making
any profit is the middleman, who collects
Bd. a pound. Housewives are not
interested at 2s, 6d. a pound, and the
main source of sale now is to airway
passengers, who purchase scallops to take
back to the mainland.
QUITE COMFORTING.
“This week is exceptionally propitious for all
things except health, and financial and domestic
alfairs.” —Astrological note in Sunday paper.
You can go and get tight,
Or buy into a fight,
Scorch at seventy past intersections,
Gall a copper a mug—
You won’t land in the jug; ,
At such conduct they won’t raise objections.
For your stars all this week
See your luck at its peak;
They are, in fact, greatly propitious.
But in matters of health,
Or the family, or wealth,
Well —your actions should be most judicious.
When you lob into work,
Tell the trump he’s a jerk,
For a salary rise, though, don’t bite him,
For that deals with finance,
And it could be, by chance.
That to give you the boot you’d invite him.
If you feel like it, go
And jump fair on the toe
Of a 15-stone, bad-tempered navvy.
There’s no cause for alarm;
You can come to no harm.
For your stars are protecting you, savvy?
You can barge in—-yes, you!
At the head of a queue
While maintaining an air quite bombastic,
Without any fear
You’ll go out on your ear,
Or suffer reprisals more drastic.
Someone’s beer you could drink
In a bar, I should think,
With absolute iron impunity.
You could do anything
Under Scorpio’s wing,
For your stars grant you perfect immunity.
Except, as they say.
Where it touches your pay,
Your health, or a yike with the missus.
So don’t back any moke,
Swallow paint for a joke,
Or partake of unconjugal kisses.
But as for the rest,
With an armor you’re blest,
Tough as that of an ichthyosaurus.
On your stars you can bank,
And it’s them you can thank —
More especially, I fancy, old Taurus!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO BETTY LINDA FRY of Paddington.—
TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT EDWARD
FRY has filed a Petition for Divorce in
Suit No. 2173 of 1952 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for'
three years and upw'ards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Syd-
ney by the sth September 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from. N. V. MENLOVE, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALFRED GERALD MOUNT late of
6 Gibbon Lane Redfern. —TAKE NOTICE
that ADA MAY MOUNT has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 2650 of 1951 on the.
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Third day of September 1952 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. LIONEL DARE & REED &
MARTIN, Solicitors, of 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF~ NEW
SOUTH WALES —Federal M atrimoniai,
Causes.
TO KIRSTEN MARIA ANDERSEN also
known as KIRSTEN MARIA SANDERSON
late of Brisbane in the State of Queens-
land. —TAKE NOTICE that your husband
KENNETH FREDERICK ANDERSEN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1899 of
1952 on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards (under Queensland law)
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the sth day
of September 1952 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charce from ADRIAN
C. R. TWIGO, 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, liegwirar.
a Cheap Job
by J.C SHELLEY
MRS. BAXTER paused
majestically on the top
step of the veranda.
Regal, stout, austere.
Specimen of the new rich.
TTie affluence, the row of
nineteen cabins, neat, close-
packed on the block across
the street with the blue sea a
hundred yards down the sandy
road, after passing Baxter’s
general store and milk-bar
Baxter’s bakery and cafe and
the new garage on the corner that
was nice to look at in the front,
being ultra-modern with a curved
drive-in to the bowsers, but
frowsy and pinched behind the
fa?ade because of the second-
hand timber and old iron roof
hiding behind the wall of curved
fibro with big glass windows
fronting the street. The sign-
writer was busy adding the S in
“Baxter’s” along the cantilever
awning.
All of it, too, hers by right
of her foresight, and, in the
beginning, Baxter’s meagre bank
balance and a mortgage on the
store, plus those pennies added
on the articles that Baxter had
always thought dear enough to
the public. A quarter of the
village belonged to her. She
descended the steps to the
garden-path with regal dignity,
observing the lawn on each
side. It was a pity that Baxter
had a supposedly bad heart which
prevented him from using the
mower. It cost her twenty-five
shillings a week for that rascal
Duncan, and another ten if he
did the edges. Atrocious! The
hide of the working people these
days! Mrs. Baxter frowned on
the lawn as if defying the grass
to grow any quicker.
The postman came riding his
bike along the footpath, and
after he passed there wasn't
much left in his bag for the rest
of the village. Mrs. Baxter
returned to the veranda, reading
the mail as she went. One letter
amongst the pile held her atten-
tion. Addressed in a heavy
masculine hand it breathed of a
working-man, perhaps a trades-
man wishing to spend his ill-
gotten accumulation of overtime
in a holiday at an up-and-coming
seaside resort. Instinctively her
mind focused her cabins into
perspective ; automatically reject-
ing the eight-guineas-a-week
ones ; hovering round the one
that would be vacant at five
guineas in a day or two, but
inclined to be thoughtful about
the six-guineas vacant next
week . . .
Mrs. Baxter slit the envelope
with a rich red fingernail, read
the enclosure quickly, plucked
eyebrows rising exclamatory,
either from the briefness of the
note or other causes.
Dear Mrs. Baxter,
I’ll be down Sunday to start
that chimney. Require accom-
modation.
W. Stone.
Mrs. Baxter blinked, finding
it hard to realise that, after all the
months of backing and filling on
W. Stone’s part, he was now, at
last, about to begin the job.
She felt warmness flow in her
veins, a slight relaxing of bear-
ing, and went down the steps
again to stand on the lawn and
look at the front of the house,
in particular the sheet of fibro
over the hole in the lounge-room
wall, where, next week, under the
masterful hands of Mr. Stone,
would arise the white-brick
chimney she had dreamed about
for so long.
SOMEWHAT elated now that
the bricks stacked neatly up
the backyard were about to be
used, she went up the steps
into the house looking for
Baxter. No one ever thought to
call him by his Christian-name or
refer to him as mister. Just
Baxter identified him to young
and, old alike. He never seemed
to mind.
“Baxter, Mr. Stone is coming
on Sunday to start that
chimney.”
“Ah.” That “Ah” had a
quality about it; a flexible
character. It could agree without
being enthusiastic. It could
compromise without aggravating.
It could aggravate without cause.
Mrs. Baxter didn’t try to
analyse it this morning. “I can
hardly believe it! Just fancy ;
it’s a little over twelve months
since I told him I wanted that
chimney done. And now he’s
coming to do it!”
Baxter offered a mild protest.
“Should have let him do it
contract, like he wanted.”
Baxter had been a working man
himself once. Still was; only
there was no union to cover his
classification.
“Rubbish! ” The word
bounced out of Mrs. Baxter’s
lips, abrupt, decisive, shattering.
“And have the man make twice
as much out of me? Not likely!
You forget, Baxter, that I am a
businesswoman! ” Her mind
leaped to other things. “He
requires accommodation.”
“Ah.” Baxter could under-
stand that. A man had to have
somewhere peaceful to rest his
head after a day’s toil. “Let him
have one of the cabins.”
“What?” Mrs. Baxter’s bark
was like the crack of a bullock-
whip. “The idea, Baxter ; the
man will only be here two days.
I will make up a bed on the
back veranda and he can have
his meals with us. I will deduct
it from his wages,”
“Ah,” said Baxter, not game
to comment further.
MR. STONE arrived in the
bus on Sunday morning. A
big nuggety man with an open,
boyish face. The type of face
you would lend your tobacco-
pouch to without a qualm. A
long, lean thoroughbred pipe
angled belligerently from the
corner of his mouth, and he lit
it with a flourish after dumping
his suitcase and tool-bag on the
back veranda. The mortar-
stained sugar-bag contained his
tools of trade ; two trowels, a
spirit-level, plumbob, tommy-
hawk and a chalk-line. When
the job required other tools than
these, Mr. Stone would borrow
them. His boyish face made that
a simple matter. At sight of him
Mrs. Baxter became flustered,
almost girlish. ’ After all, she’d
waited twelve months for this
moment and here it was at last,
“Why, Mr. Stone, how nice to
see you! ”
Baxter, in the kitchen peeling
potatoes, raised his eyebrows
oddly. Martha’s voice dripped
honey this morning, but he still
maintained that she would have
done better if she’d had it done
contract.
“I’m in a tearin’ hurry,” Mr.
Stone said decisively. “Work!
Stone the rhubarb, I’ve got more
work on me hands than you can
poke a stick at.” He surveyed
his hands meaningly; gnarled
and ingrained with lime and
cement. “Don’t know what’s
come over the world. Don’t give
a man time to breathe, they
don’t.”
Mrs. Baxter took him down-
stairs and showed him where the
chimney was to be built. Mr,
Stone removed the sheet of fibre
covering the hole in the wall and
peered into the lounge-room,
seemingly impressed by the
quantity and quality of the
furniture and rolled-back carpet
spread out before his eyes.
Silently he assessed the value of
it all, and at the end of the day
made up a time-sheet for eight
hours’ work.
If the old girl was going to
muck him about just because
she couldn’t make up her mind
how she wanted the chimney,
he’d better be careful with his
time. Better make up a sheet
each day so there’d be no argu-
ments at the end of the job. He’d
been stung by this type before.
I T took Mr. all of eight
' hours hext day to wheel the
bricks from the backyard to the
front lawn and stack them
handily to the job. “Can’t build
the bloomin’ chimney in the
backyard! ” he said testily to
Mrs. Baxter when she started
hinting at the length of time it
had taken him. “If I’d thought
of it in time I’d have asked
where they were before I came.
Not a tradesman’s job, wheelin’
bricks. If the union knew about
it there’d be a stink, and no
doubt about it. Pretty soli#on
that sort of thing, the union.
Can’t blame ’em, you know.
Some people think tradesmen are
just so much pie,”
He surveyed Mrs. Baxter
thoughtfully.
Mrs. Baxter hurried into her
shell. She had had trouble with
the employees at the store and
their union, and it had cost her
some money in fines. She
assessed Stone’s appetite, which
was prodigious, requiring five
meals a day. She made up a
tentative bill for his board in her
mind. With things what they
were in the shops he couldn’t
expect to be boarded for
nothing.
Tuesday, Mr, Stone built the
scaffolding. It was a thorough
job, with three four-inch nails in
every joint of timber. As he
explained it to Mrs. Baxter when
he went for the second lot of
nails: “If them scaffolding
inspectors come snoopin’ around
when I’m workin’ on an insecure
structure then you’re a gonner
for fifty quid for allowin’ me to
be there. You payin’ me wages
makes you the employer, see?
Lets you in on the responsibility, |
They’d reckon you was liable
for not satisfying yourself as to'
the safety of the gear you are
supplying your employee with,
see?”
Wednesday morning he mixed
the mortar in two big batches on
the lawn. Admittedly the
batches had iron under them and
boards round the side, but some
of the mortar ran through the
cracks and out on to the grass.
That had nothing to do with
Mr. Stone.
Mrs. Baxter missed him
shortly before eleven and went
complaining to her husband.
“Ah,” said Baxter without
interest. “Gone fishing.”
“What?” Her voice exploded
like a light-globe.
“Gone fishing, I said,” Baxter
repeated a little louder.
“Borrowed one of my old lines
and went down to the beach.
Said as how this new lime has
got to make in the mortar for
nearly twenty-four hours to be
any good, otherwise the mortar
crumbles up and the chimney
falls down.”
Suitable words were beyond
Mrs. Baxter. It was a week
before she realised that Stone
could have, and should have,
mixed his mortar the day before
he built his scaffolding.
'"THURSDAY and Friday saw
I Mr, Stone plugging manfully
along at the chimney, brick by
brick, hauling his mortar up in a
bucket on a length of rope,
making a lot of noise with his
trowel as he tapped along the
face to square the bricks. But
there was one thing in his favor;
he was a master bricklayer—|
even Mrs. Baxter had grudgingly
to admit that.
He was also an excellent
trencherman, and suffered from
no hidebound conventions of
an evening ; making himself
comfortable in a lounge-chair
with whatever reading-matter
was available to hand ; belching
softly if he felt like it; smoking
heavily and flicking the spent
matches into a corner of the
room.
It all made Mrs. Baxter boil
inwardly. But as Baxter
grumpily answered back, when
in the privacy of their bedroom,
“Ah, what’s the use of whinge-
ing, Martha? You’re getting the
chimney built, aren’t you?”
“But I thought it was only
going to take two days!” she
wailed. “What ever is it going
to cost me?”
“Should have had it done
contract,” answered Baxter,
without malice, taking no notice
of her anguish.
CT ATURDAY Mr. Stone dis-
mantled the scaffolding, then
presented himself in the room
on the side veranda that did duty
as an office. “She’s finished,” he
said confidently. “Everything
cleared up and stowed.”
So it was too, except for the
mortar glued to the grass on the
VARIOUS VERSE
BUTTERFLY IN THE THORNBUSH.
There was no emotion in that unvaried flutter
over the thorn-bush as the white butter-
fly not quite torn loose flew tethered
by wing and leg to a web. Having weathered
the worst entanglement, to be snarled by one strand
only, was more than I could stand.
There was almost no emotion in my deed
when with very careful fingers I freed
her and watched her go, adding this rider:
there seemed to be plenty of emotion in the spider.
N.Z.
W. HART-SITH.
MONSOON.
I said, “Can’t take much more!” but the rain heard;
Only the rain answered, answering with more rain.
That had the sea’s extravagance; depths, distances.
And glances at the glass told more, our chances
At zero for a clearance. I could gain
Half a knot by shutting up. A word
Would shake the laden cloud-branches, it seemed.
Cram on more pounds of steam, and thank the Lord,
No windjammers this season. So, off we steamed;
Were lost to you, God, in the curtain-folds
Of that monsoon all summer. And the holds
Filled up; and we grew fins. Enough, we thought,
To dry out like smoked mackerel in some port.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
BLACKOUT AND FLAT-DWELLER.
No warning. Absolute darkness. My room becomes
an entire world of nothing or a rock-bound cave;
either infinite and cold or circumscribed and stifling.
Next door the dynamo starts, it roars and hums
and there it is light and safety. Wave after wave
of its dulled noise thuds through these beleaguered walls,
life after life is lit throughout six storeys
to become a stranger, more immediate thing
even within an hour. The brilliance calls
insidiously: “Here extraordinary mysteries
might be observed through your open window, and here
is the hidden life of unknown neighbors, heightened.
O you, existing in blackness come to your window,
investigate secret rite and solemn fear,
O outcast in space and darkness: be enlightened!”
Whether to peer through the glass or resist temptation?
Sense says: “There is nothing amazing, you will see
perhaps a bottle-party, a kitchen sink
or an empty bed; inquisitive sensation
is more curious than any evening reality.”
Then why thus anxious? The dynamo it seems
is godlike, the dwellers next door bask fortunate
in gracious power, while we, satanic, despair
in hell’s furthest region; and, searching celestial beams,
grow yet more unillumined, degenerate;
restless, compelled to the window. Spared the dark
the city spreads like all the tents of heaven
lit for an Arab legend; when before
has it been so lovely?—The shame-concealing park,
existing only in lights, looks purer even
by contrast with murked thoughts than a sky of stars,
and holier this hour than the impersonal ravines
that blacken outer space. Being of our time
why should not dynamos symbol avatars
or glory be strongly stated by machines?
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


Conquest by Terror
Exactly what are the Rus-
sians’ methods of control? How
are they subjugating people?
July Reader's Digest brings
you the shocking story of a
great plot. To get his facts on
how the Communists seize
power, international correspon-
dent Leland Stowe spent 18
months with refugees, exiled
journalists and former army
officers from Iron Curtain
countries. His findings add up
to one of the most important
unreported stories in the world
today. Here is an unforgettably
vivid portrayal of the commu-
nist blueprint for the enslave-
ment of all free men.
Get your July Reader’s Di-
gest today—in the new natural-
color photographic cover. 30
articles of lasting interest. One
shilling and sixpence at ail
newsagents and bookstalls.
NEW DIESEL
ALTERNATOR SETS
FOR LIGHTING
AND POWER
Suitable for City Appliances
and Machinery
Three sizes available:
15 K.V.A.
22 K.V.A.
28 K.V.A.
Self-reg. const, voltage type, 3-
Phase Alternators, direct coupled
with famous German “Guldner”
Diesel Engines on common base-
plate. Ample essential spare parts
and working manual included.
Write for particulars
INSPECTION INVITED
G.M.F. Electric Motors
Pty. Ltd.,
Arncliffe, Sydney. LX 1211
KLG
SPARKING PLUGS
WITH
‘GORUNDITE*
INSULATION
I
yy
S. SMITH & SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
HOB 6
ẅ
m
£ir,...
.
e*» j
- ' ■ ■;■ ' ■•■;•;:
mm
m
W iSp • v -;{--- : ’ ‘ i
|P^
gramas*™
i«i
*
II
mm&m
* ...
Si
■■■■■■ :■'-'
/.
mm
wm
‘ Va^vw,
/
Sign for Service and..
Your Atlantic Retailer
can be trusted for
• Courteous Attention
• Efficient Service
• Planned Maintenance • Quality Products
AND COMPLETE CAR CARE
For Happy Motoring and the assurance of
top quality products and service at all times
TRUST ATLANTIC
ATLANTIC FLASH * ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL * ESSO PARADYNE
ẃ
“Mr. Stone, are you trying to
be ridiculous? I certainly do
not intend to pay this account!
It appears to me, Mr. Stone, that
you are trying to take advantage
of a woman!”
Mr. Stone sighed wearily,
gathered his time-sheets together
and said sadly “Okay. It’s a
matter for me union. I don’t pay
me union dues for nothin’. They
can handle this. It’s right up
their alley! I been through it
before and I haven’t lost a case
yet. I’ve got me time-sheets to
show, and the account for me
board and the tickets for me
bus. I got nothin’ to hide.” He
looked upon Mrs. Baxter sadly.
Mrs. Baxter reached for her
cheque-book, closing her mind
against the figures she had to
write there.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications
insufficiently stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. win
be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to the tditor.
L.8.C.: Maybe you can read
character, but you don’t draw it....
L.H.: No, no; your people all
always look like understudies taking
the parts at a moment’s notice
J.M.: You should have the others
back by now; hope this one arrives
safely W.N.S.: Send address for
return of MSS. and payment for one
poem accepted... .M.N.: Too much
ping-pong and not enough poetry.
G.M.R.: But why “hail” a hut,
except that you needed a rhyme for
“wail”? E.T.M.: A slight, pleasant
lyrical quality in “Lament of a
Lotus-eater” E.W.: Likewise for
“Even” Wincogee; Why not write
about flying? J.O’L.: “Salt Lakes”
dry....J.L.: “Dust-storm” relies too
much on such facile rhymes as “sight-
light” and “bees-trees” L.P.W.:
Not bad of its kind, but all poems
about old mining-towns, unless vastly
enlivened with local color, are the
same poem... .M.C.: Your criticism
noted. But surely a snake is a more
appropriate subject for Australians to
be writing about than the knights and
ladies in the specimen from the
“Graphic”? J.D.R.: You went a
bit off “The Bridge” H.W.E.:
Lawson might have been pleased with
your tribute, but not with your
attempt to rhyme “home” with
“poem” Claudie; So slight that it
hardly exists... .K.F.: Something in
all of them, but too long and rather
too personal for us L.E.G.: So
you want to write a national song?
Well, you’ve written the same one
that everybody else does... .1.W.: The
title of “Our Lower Critics” seemed
hopeful in a literary way; but the
criticism of mankind by ants, birds,
etc., turned out to be very familiar
stuff T.E.: All lightweights
R.M.: Language and images hack-
neyed—e.g., “sunset wondrous fair.”
P.K.: “Hopping” hopped out.
....R.8.: If you can do that at 21
there’s some hope for you when
you’re 121... .0.W.1.: It has about
as much form, and much the same
quality, as a squashed toadstool
N.A.P.: Might suit the poetry-corner
of a tiny-tots’ column, provided the
standard isn’t too severe... .H.M.C.:
You had a bad time, all right, but so
would we if we printed it... .C.W.:
Hard to say whether your hero got
lost in the fog, or your story
P.M.P.: What the rest of the public,
i'e., the lottery-losers, want to know
about lottery-winners is not that they
lived happily ever after, but that in
spite of their ill-gotten gains they
finished in the poorhouse K.M.:
Not bad, but hasn’t quite the air
that carries such things 0ff....A.W.:
We missed the point, and so did you.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Murlonga”; The only bald abo. head
I ever saw was responsible for a badly-
bitten hand. Daylight, a stockman on
Goodwood, an outstation of Warenda
(W.Q.), was so ashamed of his nut
nudity that he never uncovered during
the day and slept with a nightcap when
he went to his bunk. One day Daylight
and his gin got half-blithered, and she
proudly lifted her lord’s hat to show what
a marvel he was. Daylight stood stunned
for a moment or two, then he did two
things simultaneously: crammed his hat
on his head and started in to belt his
irreverent missus, and so loudly did she
shriek at the condign punishment that a
new-chum stockman thought she was
being killed, and, stepping in to save her,
dealt out some rough stuff to Daylight.
They’re all the same: black, brown,
brindle, yellow or white: as soon as she
saw her man being knocked about the gin
sailed straight into her savior. She didn’t
have time to pick a waddy: she darted in
like a tigress and laid the bone bare on
his hand where she sank in her teeth.
The whisky Daylight thought he was
going to have was used to sterilise the
gin-bite.
* * * *
“Betcha”: I’d dropped in for a quick-
’un, and found the conversation milling
round the most useful things a bush bloke
can carry about in His pocket, the number
being limited to four articles. Bill was
definite on the advisability of a couple of
nails always at hand, pointing out that
even if a bloke didn’t find any other place
for them, they were always needed sooner
“Clever my foot —he probably practised it for hours!"
or later these days as pants-buttons.
Herb argued the advantage of a small
file, and the ease with which one could
collect a piece of fencing-wire. Stan
plumped for a stub of lead-pencil, and
another bloke asked for nothing but a
hoof-probe. The new hand from the
station reckoned all he needed was a
watch to get back for dinner on time,
and the bloke in the corner settled —
heaven knows why—for a corkscrew,
Round to Jim’s turn ; he considered him-
self well equipped with an old shearing-
cutter, for not only was the implement
small and good for cutting, but it was the
best thing in the world for digging out
splinters. Then they asked me my
favorite pocket-furnishings. Easy. Knife,
matches, bootlace and paper. Have
carried ’em for years, and they cater for
most occasions pretty well.
* * * *
“Burra”: A big silver-poplar, 15ft. in
girth and heading for the century, which
stands in Goulburn’s Belmore Park
between the bandstand and Auburn-
street, has been found to be hollow (but
not so very hollow) and has been con-
demned by the council, while I fight a
lone battle for a reprieve. Have sug-
gested the concrete method, as used to
salvage Hovell’s tree on the banks of
the Murray, only to be met by
stony silence and an apathy regard-
ing the grand tree’s fate that’s
appalling. Time is running out and I'm
running out of ammo. Bricks and half-
bricks from Abo. contributors, wrapped
in suggestions or unwrapped, will be
graciously accepted. Recently, as if it
knew its fate might depend on it, the old-
timer withstood for days, without a
tremor, some of the wickedest weather of
which these N.S.W. Southern Tablelands
are capable. A moi! A moi!
* * * *
“D.A.8.”: One Elizabeth Craig gives
her readers in the English “Woman’s
Journal” some fascinating facts;
Like their British cousins, the people in
the Land of the Wattle Blossom enjoy a
cup of tea. The people in the cities pre-
pare theirs in much the same way as we do
ours, but the sheep-shearers and the
boundary-riders have their own brew, which
they call billy tea. The very name con-
jures up for me visions of mile upon mile
of countryside bathed in warm sunlight
and the soft baaing of sheep as they are
rounded up to be sheared. Just out of
interest, I thought that you might like to
know the way billy tea is made. They
put an ounce of tea into a warm, dry
basin and pour on to it a pint of boiling
water. The basin is covered and left for
about seven minutes, and then the tea is
strained into a china jug. When it is
required a tablespoon of cold tea is put
into a cup with milk and sugar, and the
cup is then filled up with boiling water.
I have often wondered, seeing a boundary-
rider riding his boundary with a string-
bag hung from his saddle containing a
warm, dry basin, a china jug and a set of
scales, what he used ’em for. Now I
know.
* * * ♦
“Boro-Belle”: The first abo. foot-
races ever held in Queensland were
organised in 1884 by Lord and Lady
Wmchilsea, then owners of Mount
Spencer station, near Nebo, Mackay.
Prizes were the slightly-worn English-
made clothes of the titled pair, which
today would be worth several hundred
pounds. Some 45 station-blacks partici-
pated, and, as the successful abos donned
their garments, the scene presented was
extraordinary, for there were Binghis in
belltoppers and swallow-tail coats, Eton
jackets and smartly-cut trousers, while
the lubras were picturesquely attired in
beautiful West End satins. That evening,
when their Excellencies gave a dinner-
party to their friends from surrounding
stations, the guests were waited on by the
dusky Jeameses. The change of courses
required the same dishes and plates, which
were returned clean so quickly that Lord
Henry went out to the kitchen, where he
found his band of waiters rubbing the
greasy plates over their woolly heads and
streaming back with them clean. His Ex.
kept the secret for many months.
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”; The poet Thomson, writ-
ing of the Hebridean cragsman collecting
birds’-eggs from his island cliffs, describes
how he “gathers his ovarious food.”
Ovarious food! What a magnificent
slogan for the Australian Egg Boards!
“This is no job for a blacksmith—take her to a chiropodist.”
“Mat’s Mate”: As with bushmen
everywhere, nothing printed was ever
thrown away from our camps until read,
probably twice or thrice. Which is why
I came across Mat absorbed in a torn
sheet from some magazine or other that
had come wrapped round the bacon.
“What y’ got there?” I asked. “Aw, some
tale about one of them big squatters way
over in Poland or Siberia or somewhere,”
he said. “This bloke starts out in one o’
them horse-sledges on a trip. He’s got a
servant named Boris and Boris's missus
with him. Well, there’s snow everywhere
and mobs o’ wolves about —somethin’ like
dingoes, I reckon —and a mob of these
wolves take after the sledge. The boss
an’ Boris bowl a few with their rifles, but
there’s dozens. So they cut a horse loose,
reckonin’ the wolves’ll stop t’ eat the
neddy and give ’em time t’ get a break.
But there’s so many of the ruddy things
that they gollop that prad in about
two bites an’ get after the sledge again.
Things is gettin’ tough, so this Boris
jumps off the sledge with a rifle t’ go the
wolves an’ so the boss and Boris’s missus
get away.” “Yair, but what happened t’
Boris?” “Dunno,” Mat said, “the
paper’s torn off there. But if he got et
it serves him right.” “How do y’ make
that out?” “Well, cripes, he could ha’
chucked the boss off, couldn’t he?” Mat
demanded, indignant at my stupidity.
“Argan”: The dugong’s points of
resemblance to the human species (B.
11/6/ ’52) are such that for many years
there appeared on the Australian side-
show circuit an exhibit of a “merman and
mermaid,” the exhibits being actually
two doctored corpses of dugongs. Some
years ago N.T. police, in investigat-
ing some alleged native murders, came
upon a supposedly human skull which,
under scientific examination, was estab-
lished as a dugong’s cranium. The
dugong, which was once fairly common
in Australian waters as far south as
Ballina (N.S.W.), is fast dying out.
* * * *
“Dominie”: In reply to “Villefair” (B.
4/6/’52), why the argument? In crib-
pegging, five fives would score 20; i.e.,
10 pairs. The combinations of five things
taken two at a time are 10. If held, four
in hand and one on deck, the total score
would be 40, 20 for pairs and a like
amount for 15’s, the combination of five
things taken three at a time being 10
also.
* *
“Byram”: In the long-ago all the
animals, birds and insects wore gay
colors, just like the flowers do now.
Myee the moth was very beautiful, and
was happy to live in the fields by the
river-bank and be among the flowers.
She was always curious to see what made
the stars twinkle in the clear sky above
the far-away mountains that were always
covered in white. She was warned never
to fly away from the fields ; but curiosity
overcame her, and as the sun was sinking
one day Myee flew to the heights. The
falling snow beat her to the ground,
where she lay covered under the white
mantle. When springtime came and the
warm sun melted the snows, Myee was
uncovered, and appeared pure white.
Afraid to return to her people on the
river-bank, she sought shelter on the
mountain in a deep cave. Bogong, the
large moth who flew with Myee in the
fields, had taken the form of a' warrior
whilst seeking his lost affinity. After
countless ages Bogong found Myee was
being held a captive in the cave on the
high mountain by the evil bat Galong.
Bogong entered into mortal combat with
the evil bat, and after a fierce fight slew
him with his spear and set Myee free.
Great happiness returned when Bogong
and Myee were united. They decided to
live on the heights, where the stars
twinkle. To this day their children are
known as the Bogong moths, and still
live in the long cave On the heights of
Mount Kosciusko, whose -rocky peak
points to the stars that attracted Myee.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: It was just on dark. The
last kooka chuckles had faded away. tl?c
grey crane on the mussel-bank across
the river was thinking about home, the
inevitable late crow floated across with
a lazy caw. Old Sam, with two lipes
in the river and most of a bottle of wine
inside himself, lay on the shelving Tapalin
bank in a mood made up of somnolence,
mellowness and partial drunkenness. Just
as the dark came a flight of wood duck
went up the river and their weird howl
startled
Samuel.
Out of the
water below
him a huge
head with
two horns
appeared,
there was a
wild roaring
sound be-
tween a
whoop and a
sigh. Sam went straight up off his back,
turned in the air and was running before
he hit the ground. A minute later he
burst on the Tapalin people with staring
eyes and incoherent babblings. They
calmed him down and were informed
that henceforth their part of the Murray
was to be distinguished as possessing
either a hippo, or a bunyip. It wasn’t
till two days later, when White Bob
arrived from Kulkyne in search of a
missing steer, whose tracks entered the
water on the Victorian side and came out
on Sam’s side, that some sort of sense
prevailed and the Tapalin women would
venture forth at night.
*** ♦ ■ 1
“M.S.”: There seems nothing in the
animal line that a crow won’t eat —from
an egg to a rooster, from a ’hopper to a
horse. Nor is Kelly concerned whether
his meat is alive or in the last stages of
putrefaction. Have had a rabbit-trap in
a far corner for months, and as I don’t
visit the area every day the crows usually
beat me to the catch. The rabbits have
been easily recognisable by their paws
and bits of scattered fur, and a couple of
hares obviously meant nothing but tucker
to the Kelly gang. On the list also was a
bush cat, but the crows ate it, and a few
days later they cleaned up a trapped
fox. Then a sheep was unlucky enough
to shove a hoof between the jaws, and
made a great feast for the scavengers.
More than one rat was caught, and also
a possum. The funereal fowl ate them, as
well as a blue-tongue that was pinned
across his middle. Then at long last
the trap snapped on one of the black
marauders, and it, also, went the way of
all the other flesh.
COLD-WEATHER TIME.
The cold winds are blowing
Bright stars on the sky
And night-scents are flowing
From waters near by
Where lilies are swaying
As, feeding and playing,
The pigmy-geese cry.
The dewdrops are peeping
Where fairy-wrens play
And dawn-winds are sweeping
Mist-curtains away,
Revealing—entrancing—
The grey brolgas dancing,
To welcome the day.
The wild-rice is drying
And bursting with seed
And crying, defying.
The water-birds feed
As pied-geese come feeding
By pads that are leading
Through swamp-grass and reed.
How clear then the morning,
How cool is the breeze;
Its fragrance is warning
The birds and the bees
That nectar’s o’erflowing
Where banksias are growing
By paper bark-trees.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


“Old-timer”: Since I was a boy I’ve
heard hundreds of tales about Dad and
Mum on the selection, seen Dad and
Mum on the stage and the motion-picture
screen, heard radio versions and read
advertising blurbs and other references to
Dad and Mum, as those “immortal char-
acters created by Steele Rudd” or words
to that effect. Well, Steele Rudd created
Dad, but in all his Selection stories there
is no „rpierChce ! to Mum. Dad’s consort
in
callM tier Mother, so did the boys, so did
the girls they married, and so did
Arthur H. Davis himself.
* * * *
“Edx”: It is a far ciy from the bilges
of a pearling lugger to the bottom of
a mine, but both are dark places of heat
and high humidity, much favored by
cockroaches (B. 4/6/’52), and in the days
when horses were extensively used under-
ground on W.A. goldmines this insect
throve and multiplied there. Of the
winged variety, almost to a ’roach they
were stalwart, powerful-looking brutes,
with the sheen of rude health on their
outer wings and legs as they swarmed
over the back and walls around the
stables as thick as social-climbers at a
Government House ball, and as hard to
shift. One method of temporarily thin-
ning them out was to burn them off the
surfaces with a flare made of a kerosene-
soaked bag. The horses used to love this,
jostling for position next the man with
the torch as he worked along the stable
walls, and fairly lapping up the roasted
delicacy falling to the floor. In the
Stygian, hypertropical atmosphere of
3000 ft. below the surface, amid lashins
of food from the stables, it might be
expected that the cockroaches would
have grown to' a monstrous size, but
curiously this was not so, any tendency
towards the evolution of a super-species
under those utopian conditions apparently
being inhibited by a constant influx of
vitiating fresh blood from the surface,
shanghaied, like the original settlers, down
below in the fodder-bags.
* * * *
“W.M.H.”; “Kultahna” (B. 11/6/’52)
is astray when he says the late Mrs. Daisy
Bates adopted the aboriginal name
“Kabbarli” to show the natives she was
"I Wont be goin' t ’ the stop-Work meetin' t’day, Bill — I'm too tired.”
a “spirit of the dream-time.” The name
she adopted for this purpose was
“Kallower,” and it enabled her to con-
vince the aborigines that she was the wife
of one of their legendary ancestors and
an ageless “spirit of the dream-time,”
which period, the aborigines believed, was
the beginning of all things. So completely
did she win their confidence that
Kallower” was allpwed to learn tribal
secrets and customs which had been
jealously guarded against the white man’s
curiosity. The name “Kabbarli,” mean-
ing nothing more than grandmother, was
bestowed on Mrs. Bates when she acted
as a liaison between sick natives in the
Government hospitals and their families.
Situated on Berne and Dorre Islands, the
hospitals’ sites were unfortunate selections
because many of the natives had never
“Did you see a cutworm come this way ?”
seen the sea, and, to their primitive
minds, it was evil magic. Some went mad
with terror when they found themselves
completely surrounded by the sea. Mrs.
Bates tried to enlighten them, and proved
her devotion to them by carrying
message-sticks to their families on the
mainland.
* * * *
“Chassa”: Mat in Ballarat (B,
11/6/’52) reminds me of another prank
played in that fair city late in 1943. The
bust of Billy Hughes disappeared from
the Prime Minister’s alley in the Botanical
Gardens. During the resultant uproar
no one thought of looking in a certain
tent in the area occupied by the gym.
staff of 107 Convalescent Depot in Vic-
toria Park. Many nights around the
midnight hour Billy could be seen staring
straight ahead, without a smile, while
some of the “p.-t. instructors” toasted his
health. Later he was found ensconced in
the fork of an elm-tree in Sturt-street, and
the incident was gratefully forgotten by
worried authorities and suspicious C.O.s.
* * * ♦
“Gulliver”; Do the sandalwood recol-
lections of “O’Shamus” (B. 28/5/’52)
include the story of the sandalwood-buyer
and the sovereigns (yes, it was as long
ago as that) in the days when John
Forrest’s was a name to conjure with in
W.A.? In one of the sandalwood districts
there it was the habit of the cutters to
cart their logs to the store, where they
were credited with the value and took
it out in flour, dungarees, treacle and
other giddy luxuries. Anxious to get a
share of the trade, but baffled by the
grip the stores had on their suppliers, a
buyer once secured a bag of sovereigns
and posted himself early one morning
beside the road, a few miles out of town.
Shortly the first load of wood came along,
an offer was made, and when the bar-
gaining and haggling ceased the sovereigns
were tendered in payment. “What’s
these?” asked the seller. “Sovereigns,”
said the buyer. “Money, y’ know.”
Dubiously the cutter examined the coin.
“Who’s this —this head here?” “Oh,”
answered the buyer, “that’s Queen Vic-
toria.” “And who’s this on the other
side?” “That’s St. George killing a
dragon.” The seller shook his head.
“No good to me,” he decided. “I’ll go
on to the store.” That night in his hotel-
room, after a day of such experiences,
the buyer pondered deeply, and next
morning, still with the bag of fiddleys,
repaired again to the roadside. Again a
sandalwood-cutter approached, the deal
was argued out, the sovereigns tendered.
the question asked regarding the head of
the lady, her august identity disclosed.
Then, still unimpressed, and following
the example of his predecessors, the cutter
turned over the coin and sought the style
and title of the equestrian there depicted.
“That, my friend,” replied the buyer, “is
none other than Sir John Forrest, riding
his favorite horse and killing a bungarra.”
“Right! ” said the cutter, trousering the
quids. “They’ll do me!” Yes, the old
boy’s name carried weight in the West
in those days.
* * * ♦
“Bass”: A “mysterious antlered
animal” seen near Pinjarra (W.A.) has
been identified as a red deer. Thirty
years ago it wouldn't have attracted so
much attention, but now it’s probably
the last of its kind in the State. It is
descended from three deers—two does
and a stag —which were brought from
Victoria 50 years ago and liberated. After
20 years, during which they were pro-
tected, their number had increased to
only about 100. That should have indi-
cated that they weren’t doing as well as
they should have, but interest in them
died, and their virtual extinction wasn’t
noticed until this lone survivor attached
himself to a herd of cows. There’s prob-
ably a simple and natural explanation
for their decline. Sou’-Westralia carries
a species of palm—the zamia-palm—the
fruit or nuts of which cause rickets in
cattle. They’d have the same effect on
deer, I doubt if domestic cattle would
survive long if they were turned loose to
fend for themselves in zamia-palm coun-
try. But, come to think of it, how have
the ’roos survived? Have they attained
an immunity, or don’t they eat the nuts?
* * * *
“Northerner”: The lubras were burn-
ing-off the long grass in the paddock
when the boss decided that this was just
the right time to siphon petrol from one
car to the other, so he ran the cars
into the yard. He was busy with the
length of rubber with an abo. looking
on, when a lubra picked up a burning
stick, lit her pipe with it, then flung it
over her shoulder, straight into a pool
of petrol that had seeped from the car.
There was a loud “Whoosh” as the
petrol went up in flame. Billy dived
under the car for safety; the burning
petrol quickly spread, set fire to the
garage, and two full tins of petrol ex-
ploded, showering flames everywhere.
The cars caught fire, and the petrol-tank
burst, spraying the cowering abo. with
flame. He shot out from under the car
like a cork from a bottle, rolling over
and over in the dust; when he finally
rose to his feet the petrol had burnt out,
and he was unhurt. He still isn’t quite
sure whether he saw, for a moment or
so, the white-man’s burning hell; or
whether he passed through the regenerat-
ing flames of his own hereafter; but
when he looks at the ruined garage and
burnt-out cars he’s still wondering how
he survived the holocaust.
• * *
“Driftsand”: I bring confirmation to
the claim of “The Missus” (B. 4/6/ ’52)
that there are no natural southpaw cats.
Recently I shifted a half-drum of wheat
in the shed, and our three-months-old
kitten pounced upon two mice hiding
beneath it. With each paw he firmly
pinned down a squeaking pest. After
some deliberation, gazing at each in turn,
he released the mouse under his left
paw to deal more efficiently with the
other. Two days later he repeated the
performance, again lifting his left paw.
* * * *
“B ’: Was passing the saleyards as
Newie trotted out his recent purchase.
“Should make a decent hack when he’s
worked,” I remarked, glancing at the
youngster. “Yes,” he called. “I’m going
to make a good stock-pony out of this
brown.” Make! I grinned at the fun
Newie would have if stockwork wasn’t
in that nag. Undoubtedly one can’t pick
’em by their looks. Of the two hacks I
own, I defy anyone to pick which is the
stock worker. They are of similar height
and build, and actually the dopy-looking
one is the stock-horse. The other steps
smartly on the open road, but, given a
mob of cattle to drive or a beast to cut
out, he has to be dragged
round with every turn of the
quarry. Despite a spur in his
ribs he takes seconds to turn,
and never gets the hang of
why he has to do it. The
other comes of a line of
stock-ponies, is a natural
worker, and, ridden close to a
bunch of cattle, the dopiness
vanishes like magic. The real
stock-horse, that can wheel on
a threepenny-bit, and follow
a beast through a mob, antici-
pating its every move, is fast
disappearing, and if machines
mean progress, I’m waiting
to see the clairvoyant
mechanism of split-second agility, speed
and sane judgment that will replace the
stock pony.
* * * *
“Derwent”: A member of Victoria’s
National Museum, roaming Tasmania in
search of traces of the aborigines who
occupied the island up to the 1840’s has
found in Mowbray Swamp, on the North-
west Coast, indications of human activity
of more than 10,000 years ago. In
addition to these ice-age men, kangaroos
twice the size of any specimens now living
played round the swamp. Parrot-fish
bones which have been found, apparently
caught by aborigines, seem to knock out
the common theory that Tasmanian
natives were not fish-eaters. Specialists
are now working on radio-carbon experi-
ments to determine the age of the bones.
There is still a lot to be learned about
the Tasmanian abo., who has been extinct
for over a century.
* * * ♦
“Ceg”: Like “Bo” (B. 28/5/’52) I
have eaten flies with many varieties of
Army jam. I recall that fig-jam was an
effective bait in Egypt and plum-and-
apple on Gallipoli. But if you really want
to attract flies, open a tin of green-peas
out in the Australian bush on a hot
summer’s day. Caravanning out from
Avoca (Vic.) we did just that and ere
you could say “Bob’s your uncle” the
sky was black with ’em. Despite my
Army experience I couldn’t cope with
them ; brushing the food en route to the
mouth was useless—they wouldn’t get
off. Finally we scraped the peas on to
a piece of paper and put them, with the
tin, about 50yds. from the camp. We
then ate the rest of the meal in peace.
♦ * * *
“Swelpme”: The feud between Big
Smutty and Splinter Woods had been on
for so long that nobody recalled its
origin—beyond that it concerned a cow
and the pound. But belligerence had
never become active, and it is doubtful
whether it would have if Big Smutty’s
wife had not come good with a son-and-
heir 12 years after their wedding-day
Smutty did the right thing; he wetted
Smut junior’s head to saturation. In the
process he passed from quiet jubilation to
raucous
melody, and
finally ex-
ploded into
righteous
wrath. “All
these years I’ve
put up with
that little
squ i r t,” he
stormed.
“Ought’ve flat-
tened him long
ago.” Sudden
decision overtook him. “I’ll do it ter-
night; damned if I don’t.” He was gone
before anybody realised he was fair-
dinkum. “Gripes,” gasped the store-
keeper, “pity Splinter hasn’t got the
phone on so’s we could warn him.” “He
won’t do it,” asserted Bung, but he wasn’t
deceiving even himself. Two hours later
Smutty came staggering into the bar.
His face was a gruesome sight. “Hey,
what happened?” asked Bung. “Woodsy
must’ve been lurking on me,” groaned
the wreck. “He’d put somethin’
for me to fall over just inside
the home fence, but I only barked me
shins on it. I got savage and shot it
away, ’n’ soon as I did Woodsy hit me
from nowhere —seemed to hit me with
eight hands all at once, he did ; and every
one ’ad a knuckle-duster on.” If Splinter
knew, he never let on that what had
happened was that the big bloke had
pelted the kid’s bike into the clothesline
and it had been catapulted back.
SNAKE.
Slim liana long,
Brown whip strong,
LurLd like a spring,
Stretched like a wire,
Cold-blooded thing
With fangs of fire.
A shadow in the grass
(Watch how you pass!),
A Stick on the ground,
A curved, crooked ring
Like an old bike tyre.
Eyes of frosty glass;
A pliable thong;
And dry stubble is the sound
Of the snake on the ground.
QUEENSLAND.
JEAN J. LAIDLAW.


%
H
% J { m£ t
ŵ
n
■
*
lllili
i
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
oSUI-UVAtt
v rrttra %;
TRADE
MARK)
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
"Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK)
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : t PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WAR—OR PEACE?
“Once it becomes clear that
the Stalinists could not have a
walkover in Europe or in the
critical parts of Asia there is no
real point in having a world
war.” —British U.N.O. delegate,
Sir Gladwyn Jebb.
Some American commentators
go so far as to say that this posi-
tion should be evident now —in
Europe at any rate. Thus David
Lawrence, reporting in New
York “Herald Tribune” from
Paris:
“Defence against a possible
attack by Soviet Russia on
Western Europe has reached the
point where it may be confidently
stated that a march of the Com-
munist armies can be halted and
delayed, thus giving air-power
its opportunity to detect and
blast the build-up of the reserve
Russian armies that would be
necessary to follow through the
initial advance.”
Not quite so optimistic, though
more so than any British or
European comments noted, the
“Herald Tribune” itself
editorially gives this summing-
up: .
“Stacking the Russian forces
in Eastern and Central Europe
against the 17 formed and
equipped N.A.T.O. divisions
(plus their available air-power
and sea-forces and the 29 Greek
and Turkish divisions holding
their southern flank), it is plain
that a formidable covering force
has actually been formed and
equipped with command, logistic
and political organs which are
surprisingly good considering the
appalling difficulties.
“This cover is probably strong
enough already to dissuade the
Russians from such mere
adventures in Europe as Korea
would seem to have represented
in the Far East. And that is its
main job. Where it is relatively
weak is in reserves. It may well
prevent war in Europe ; but if
the Russians, in spite of every-
thing, should assume the risks
and costs which a full-scale
aggression would now cost them,
the N.A.T.O. covering force
could not stave off final defeat,
because the reserves- could not
be assembled in time to meet a
Soviet timetable.
“N.A.T.O. is still a thin crust,
which may suffice, but which
must certainly be greatly
strengthened with reserve power
if any reasonable security is to
be established.”
London “Times’s” present very
able military correspondent has
recently made a calm assessment
of the war-or-peace prospects as
they stand now, with the West’s
German agreement as good as
finalised, and both the West and
its large share of Germany de-
finitely moving towards the time
when Germans will contribute to
their own defence. Apart from
the “growing strength of the
West,” the “Times” man lists
“Elseviers Weekblad,” Holland.
“WATCH THE LITTLE BIRDIE!”
some of the factors favorable to
peace:
Russia held her hand when
victory would have been what
the Americans call a “push-
over” ; why should she take
action when it would be more
difficult?
Russia is making strenuous
efforts to raise her industrial
output and her standard of life ;
may she not prefer to continue
this process for the present, even
if she considers ultimate war to
be inevitable?
Russia must be acutely
conscious of how vulnerable her
major industries would be to
atomic weapons were she to
bring on a war ; is it likely that
she will take this heavy risk?
Russia does not appear to
possess a first-class night-fighting
aircraft; could she afford a war
without one in full production?
Russia has done well out of
the “cold” war and subjected the
Western nations to heavy strain
in Indo-China, and still more in
Korea ; would it in these circum-
stances profit her to go over to
the “hot” at vastly greater cost
and peril?
Against those and other
possible peace factors, the
“Times” man rates as “the most
serious of the unfavorable
points” that it may well appear
to Russia that the military situa-
tion will not again be as pro-
pitious as between now and the
end of 1953, and indeed that it
is unlikely to be as propitious in
1953 as in the present year.
Further, “the prospect of
German rearmament is so un-
welcome to Russia that it is
likely to fortify the thought that
it might be, for her, a case of
now or never.”
Also, “Every observer must
have become uncomfortably
aware of the strength of
‘neutralist’ and even defeatist
elements in several nations of
N.A.T.O. In some cases, though
the armed forces look fairly satis-
factory, public spirit and mental
poise and confidence are by no
means so. Some improvement
has begun. It is highly welcome,
since defence would not have
endured the strain of war for a
week if sentiment had remained
as it was. So is a certain decline
in the strength of Communism
in the West. Yet, like tiTe
rearmament of Germany, these
could all turn the Russian mind
(if it thought solely in military
terms) towards the necessity of
acting soon, if at all.”
The rearming of the Russian
satellites, the writer further
points out, “seems to have made
long strides, particularly in
Poland,” and if, say, the Poles
were told that the Oder-Neisse
line depended uppn them “there
can be little doubt that they
would fight for it heartily.” And
again, the locking-up of consider-
able Western strength in remote
Korea might be a temptation to
act while that strength is pinned
there by “a Power friendly to
Russia —China.”
As a final factor which could
decide, the industries of the U.S.
which have been turned over to
defence-production have now
reached a critical stage: “It has
often been remarked, since Mr.'
Churchill first said it, that when
such changes occur in these mass
industries there is first of all
almost a dead stop, then a trickle
of output, then on a sudden a
flood. The flood has not yet
come near. Russia might decide
that it would be profitable to
anticipate it.”
The Great Air War.
If and when it does come,
the next war, as previewed by
American air expert Alexander
P. de Seversky in his latest book.
Air Power —Key to Survival,
will “amount to a campaign of
the air.” He forecasts:
“It will be started, fought and
finished in the air, with victory
in the medium conclusive.
“The,air action is bound to be
widespread and sustained and
fought to a finish, with nothing
less than the dominance of the
whole ‘air ocean’ as the prize.
“Until that action is com-
pleted a combined or so-called
triphibious offensive will be
unthinkable. And when it is
completed such an offensive will
be superfluous.”
However true that may be of
a far-future “great war,” for the
present the ground soldier is still
a No. 1 priority. A New York
“Herald Tribune” writer’s views
on the ground troops’ import-
ance “as now”;
“Air and naval power alone
cannot directly prevent the
spread of Communism, as Korea
should sufficiently have proved.
The only way that air power, un-
supported by ground formations,
can influence present Kremlin
decisions, or discourage present
aggressions, is by the threat of
retaliatory mass atomic popula-
tion-bombing. And this threat
is simply inapplicable to many
present local situations, as in
Korea or Indo-China, where
Communist aggression or infiltra-
tion can make huge gains without
ever creating a total situation so
desperate that the United States
would open atomic war on
Moscow.
“The air weapon, unless it is
backed by effective forces on
the ground in Europe, Asia or
lany other threatened area, is
thus a very poor deterrent to
small wars, and if enough small
wars are lost, seriatim, it will no
longer be much of a deterrent to
the one big war which the enemy
could then undertake, as Hitler
did, from vastly improved posi-
tions.”
U.S. Policy; No Change.
Edinburgh “Scotsman’s”
Washington correspondent’s find-
ing:
“Fears of a break in the con-
tinuity of American foreign
policy—the great nightmare of
European countries —can easily
be exaggerated.
“It is true that the last
20 years have been unique
in American history, since
only two men have occupied
the Presidency, and the
second was a devoted admirer of
the first and extended rather than
altered his policies. That
pattern can never be repeated.
“But if one examines, through
the smoke of battle, the ideas of
the men who have the most
possibilities of becoming the next
President, the chances of a
major shift in American foreign
policy are small.”
Dragnet Digest.
Korean Crux Issue. Pin-
pointed by San Francisco
“Chronicle”: “Mr. Truman
voiced, we are sure, the convic-
tion of the whole free world
when he said the United States
could not buy an armistice in
Korea ‘by turning over human
beings for slaughter or slavery.’
It is to spare human beings from
this kind of fate that we are
waging the cold war every-
where.”
Ideologies. Defined by
London “Daily Telegraph”
writer Colin R. Coote: “The
human race would really be a
great deal happier if it were not
obsessed by ideologies and
readier to judge Governments
by their works instead of by their
faith. Ideologies are as different
from ideals as carrion from
caviare. They are only too often
a corruption of ideals; and the
corruption of the best is the
worst.”
Portuguese Achievement.
London “Daily Telegraph” cor-
respondent, explaining the com-
parative freedom from trouble
enjoyed by Portugal in its
colonies: “Perhaps the chief
reason for the different atmo-
sphere in the Portuguese colonies
is the complete absence of any
sort of color bar. The reader
will remember the saying: ‘God
made the white and God made
the black; but the Portuguese
made the half-caste,’ ”
Nazi ? No ! Sir Norman
Angell, in London “Time and
Tide”; “Speaking broadly no
ordinary German today admits
to having been Nazi. If he was
a member of the party it was for
some quite special reason of
domestic circumstance or what-
not. This means that in
Germany as a whole there is little
real examination of past error.”
“Ike’s'’ European Interest
Eisenhower’s value to Europe
will not end with his being back
in America, whether in the
White House or not, in Balti-
more “Sun’s” view: “Europeans
will remember how, in his last
report, he threw the full weight
of his prestige behind the notion
of a unified Europe, a real
federalisation of European
nations. Until that comes about,
he said, or until some miracle
dissipates the social threat, ‘there
will be no confident peace and
enlarging prosperity for any part
of the free world.’ ”
Reluctant Menzies. —London
“Daily Telegraph” makes a
point on which practically all
the responsible British news-
papers are now agreed: “That
this decision [to cut Australian
imports severely! was justifiable,
at least as an emergency measure,
cannot be doubted by anyone
who realises that Australia’s
trade deficit for 1951-52 would
otherwise have been about £A6OO
million. Moreover, no one who
appreciates Mr. Menzies’s
devotion to the Commonwealth
ideal can suppose that a step such
as this, which shakes the whole
economic structure of the Com-
monwealth, can have been taken
with anything but a heavy
heart.”


UdUtof
m
as you like it!
.
amid the
colour and
splendour of
fascinating
CEYLON
Ceylon is famous for
rare tropical scenery.
. r
Colourful K and yan
Dancers, part of the
thrilling Kandy Pera-
hera in August.
Nature has been truly lavish with
her gifts to this magic island gem.
The moment you step ashore, the
subtle charm of Ceylon will infect
you with the desire to stay. In
Ceylon the tourist is provided with
every modern amenity for rest and
play. Famous tropical hotels pro-
vide accommodation and cuisine
that is unrivalled anywhere, and
Resthouses (Tourist Inns) offer
old-world charm. Sporting facilities
include trout fishing in Waltonian
streams, deep sea game fishing,
golf, shark-free surfing, and the
famous Colombo Racecourse.
Further information, free maps and
literature can be obtained by writing
to the CEYLON GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, or Travel
Agents, Shipping and Airline
Companies in Australia.
Tours can be booked direct on all
tue Ceylon Government Tourist
Registered Tra
Bureau free of
vel Agents through
commission.
CT.5.16
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
v
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Who’s who
in this queue?
Bob B— , 18, a junior in a non-
essential industry; little chance for advance-
ment. Six months hence, in the Army, he’ll
be earning over a week with food,
an initial clothing issue, accommodation
and medical and dental attention all pro-
vided free . . . and with real opportunities
for advancement.
John G , 22, a young, far-
sighted married man. He will receive
special EXTRA allowances besides
additional earnings for skill. He’s
going to make the permanent Air
Force his career. He knows that
his future will then be secure
and hie wife well provided
for.
m
£1
4
w~\
v?
.<*>■
&•••••• \
r
m
m
mm
M
f**
-> i Us
m
Fred M , 19, always wanted to
travel hut never had the chance. Present
job is “dead end.” The Navy offers him
a useful well-paid career with specialist
training, promotion and travel.
Also in this queue are many other
thoughtful young men who see in the
permanent Services an opportunity to
serve Australia and to assure for them-
selves an enviable degree of economic
security.
Enquire at the foflowlng without obligationt
Combined Services Recruiting Depots
or Information Bureaux
at the following addresses:
In Melbourne; Cnr. Flinders and Degraves Sts. In Sydney:
Cnr. Martin Place and Phillip St. In Brisbane: Scottish
Union House, 127 Eagle St. In Adelaide: Richards Building,
99 Currie St. In Perth: 34 King St. In Hobart: Franklin
Sq. In Launceston; Recruiting Office, Paterson Barracks.
Or Box XYZ in any of the above cities.
Issued by the Director General of Recruiting
FF 88.112.48
SUNDRY SHOWS
Solomon in Brisbane.
With fewer paintings and not
many showing his full powers,
Lance Solomon’s exhibition at
Brisbane Moreton Galleries
hasn’t quite the weight of the
show which had such a remark-
able success at Sydney Grosvenor
Galleries two years ago; but is
still enough to demonstrate that
in the three essentials of a
thoroughly craftsmanlike tech-
nique, intensity of observation
and a deeply individual response
to the beauty of nature Lance
Solomon has no rival in oil-
landscape among the younger
Australian painters, whether
traditional or “modern.”
Some of the outstanding land-
scapes are “Across the Creek,” a
small and profound concentra-
tion of water and box-willows in
glassy blues and greens, with
something of Corot about it;
“The Silver Stream,” a bit of
happy country lyricism about the
sort of place where cattle would
drink or small boys hunt for
yabbies and tadpoles ; “Country
Morning,” a typical large land-
scape of clay, pasture, gum-trees
and a horseman, all dramatised
in the freshness of early light;
“Wet Season” with its blue flood-
pool and its delicate pattern of
spindly ringbarked trees; and
“Pacific Coast” with its tiers of
breakers, its glimmering shallows
and its magnjficently rocky cliff
with its cave awaiting the rush
and swirl of the high tide.
This reviewer’s choice out of
the show would go to “The Hill-
side Farm” for the massiveness
of its ridge and the mellow pene-
tration of afternoon light every-
where among the paddocks and
the bush: a painting with the
compact richness you get in a
good Penleigh Boyd.
Art.
Three current Sydney exhibi-
tions —the Royal Art Society at
Anthony Horderns’, the Con-
temporary Group at Farmer’s
Blaxland Galleries and the Fel-
lowship of Australian Artists at
the Education Department Gal-
leries —haven’t produced any
masterpieces, but there are at
least a score of paintings with
which one might live and enjoy
their company.
Lance Solomon’s painting of
the bush through a mist of rain
(Fellowship exhibition) is a
poetic and skilfully-recorded
impression—it improves as,
with continued observation, one
becomes aware of how subtly
the fine curtain of rain has been
painted right through the bush
and not simply drawn across it.
Another Solomon in the Royal
Art show, “The Bush Farm,” is
almost equally pleasing; it is
dark and without the artist’s
usual lyrical handling of dis-
tances, but, in its concern with
the patterns made by a heap of
brambles and old buildings, it
captures perfectly a part of the
Australian bush.
Three paintings from H. A.
Hanke (two at the Royal and
one at the Fellowship) have
similar qualities in a quieter
rnood “Jamberoo,” a calm
vision of a spreading landscape
in soft greens, and two delight-
ful little records of trees and
shade and roads leading into
pleasant speculation.
Also at the Education De-
partment, Norman Lindsay’s
sun-drenched figures, Howard
Ashton’s crisp, sunlit beach
scene, Dargie’s bold and massive
gums, Charles Meere’s soft
trees and river-bank (better than
his Wynne prizewinner), John S.
Loxton’s almost too-slick im-
pression of trees and figures
through snow, and Dick Oven-
den’s record of distant snow-
capped hills all give some sub-
stance to the body of the show,
even if it wags a long and rather
thin tail.
Landscapes are also the
strongest points of the Contem-
porary Group’s offerings
Santry’s expansive “Boy in Yel-
low Jumper,” Wakelin’s bright
and breezy “Breezy Morning,”
Orban’s pressing bush in “South
Coast” and the lively dip and
sweep of Lloyd Rees’s “Road to
Bathurst.”
Among the Royal exhibitors,
Dora Toovey has soft little
impression in “Silhouette, Nam-
bucca” ; Hayward Veal a slight
and rather wispy charm in “Bat-
tersea Bridge From Chelsea” ;
John Rowell a cheerful shout of
color in “A Road in the Gram-
pians” ; G. K. Townshend three
watercolors of unruffled techni-
cal excellence; and Jean Derrin
a small but fresh “Cobbitty
Color.”
Stage.
The National Ballet Company
has dug in at Sydney Tiv. for a
week or two, opening with
Lichine’s “Graduation Ball,”
Dolin’s “Pas de Quatre” and
two ballets by Walter Gore:
“Antonia” (music Sibelius) and
“Theme and Variations” (music
Tschaikowsky).
“Antonia” has to do with the
revenge of a tempestuous young
man on his sweetheart, a rather
loose and wilful hussy. Mr.
Gore has put his ears back in
the matter of drama and action
where he could have been a little
more generous with the essential
business of dancing. Still, he
and Paula Hinton dance it that
way with a remarkable amount
of concentration and vigor and
with the assistance of a slightly
haphazard and Dali-esque carni-
val scene.
The prancings and cheerful
ebullience of “Graduation Ball”
cover the shortcomings of the
corps-de-ballet and allow for
some charming business from
Marie Cumisky and Strelsa
Heckelman.
At Sydney Royal Jimmy Han-
ley has moved in with “To
Dorothy a Son,” a farce about
a penurious musician whose first
wife turns up to worry him just
when his second wife is expect-
ing a baby, a situation which is
further complicated by the fact
that a million-dollar inheritance
balances on the time of arrival
of the infant. It’s not exactly a
world-shaker, but it has its
laughs ; it also has odd touches
of humanity about its charac-
ters, a quality which Mr. Hanley
works on for all its worth, but
which seems quite lost on Babs
MacKinnon as the first wife.
The second wife has to make her
presence and personality felt by
her voice alone, a task which
Rosemary Miller accomplishes
very nicely.
Downtown near Central the
Metropolitans have taken on
Chekhov’s “Three Sisters,” and,
for the opening-night perform-
ance, received a vigorous caning
from most of the critics. The
Bulletin dropped in two or
three nights later and found that
either the critics were unduly
severe or the performance had
improved considerably.
At least the main players get
pretty close to capturing the uni-
versal quality of the emotions
that are dealt with, and that
quality is, after all, the most im-
portant in any great piece of
human observation. Their main
difficulty seemed to be that the
emotions, in this case, have
Russian owners and a Russian
setting. For that matter, how-
ever, the present commentator
can’t recall a Russian in the
flesh who was really quite cred-
ible, so it was not altogether
surprising or disappointing that
Australian actors couldn’t make
them so.
There was some immaturity,
more among the men than the
women, but Patricia Lithgow,
Gwen Harrison and Audrey
Peek as the sisters gave admir-
able evidence of feeling the
emotions they were portraying,
and John Barker as the old
doctor and Colin Kenny as the
Baron were likewise excellent.
Music.
To be standing as yet on the
threshold of his career and to
possess a technique to all in-
tents already complete and a
maturity and refinement of style
is the gift of the 16-year-old
violinist Michael Rabin, who,
with the Sydney Orchestra under
Juan Jose Castro, swept calmly
through Paganini’s snag-studded
Concerto No, 1. Splendid
bravura playing marked the
opening Allegro, while the
Adagio was invested with a
warm, lovely tone, broad yet
sensitive.
Castro, who blends muscu-
larity and poetry in his conduct-
ing, gave a reading of Brahms’s
Symphony No. 1 as profound
as has been heard here in years.
He also offered up Villa-Lobos’s
Ballet Suite “Caixinha da boas
Festas,” typically Spanish in
idiom, full of fascinating
rhythmic devices and assaying
high in melody.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
U.T.9 '
It costs less when Experts manage your Estate...
11} FFICIENT management of an Estate is
dependent on the wisdom and experience of
the Executor or Trustee. In unskilled hands,
wastage and unnecessary expense may cause con-
siderable loss. The relatively small cost involved
in appointing the Union Trustee as your executor
may be more than offset by the careful, economi-
cal management of your Estate.
The specialised knowledge of a group of experts
in every sphere of Estate administration is
permanently available.
Charges, limited by law, are exceedingly moderate.
A confidential interview can be arranged to meet
your convenience.
Phone, call or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Net-
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1948 303,234 61,268 8 p.c. = 213,333 1,382,734
Special grant stafl fund, £20,000 ..1,362,734
Adde.,; goodwill, £12,180 .. ..1,350,554
Interest arrears recovered, £173,685.. 1,524,239
1949 412,749 — 10 p.c. = 320,000 1,616,988
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,596,988
Interest arrears recovered, £59,997.. 1,656,986
Goodwill written off, £54,469 1
1950 596,207 — 12 p.c. = 384,000 1 1,794,724
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 J
Interest arrears recovered, £183,251.. 1,977.975
Surplus sale of properties, £12,808.. 1,990,783
Goodwill written off, £18,450 ]
1951 718.164 — 15 p.c. = 480,000 1 2,180,497
Special grant staff fund, £30,000 J
Surplus tax provision, £219,617 .. 2,400,114
Goodwill written off, £19,786 .]
1952 457,094 — 10 p.c. = 320,000 j- 2,497,422
Special grant stafl fund, £20,000 J
The heavy fall in wool prices from
artificially high levels of the previous
year were chiefly responsible for the
equally sharp drop in last term’s net earn-
ings. Lower livestock values, drought,
bushfires and the perennial rise in costs
played their part, too. The slip was
greater than the figures in the profits
column in the table show by at least
£219,617, which was overprovided for
taxation in the previous year and has
been now written back into the p. and 1.
account.
The volume and value of the Australian
clip for the 11 months to end May for
the last two seasons were: —
11 Mths. Average
to May, Bales Sold. Value. per Bale.
1951 .. 3,352,102 £616,238,187 £183 15 9
1952 . . 3,181,835 287,532,743 90 7 4
The drop was 5 p.c. (170,267 bales) in
volume and 53.3 p.c. (£328,705,444) in
value. It was a salutary anti-inflationary
movement, though it brought a crop of
troubles in its wake. From the growers’
point of view a heartening feature has
been the satisfactory clearances at
auctions, despite difficulties of manufac-
turers, who suffered most from the
rebound. The Australian wool-cheque
for 1951-52 was second-biggest in the
long history of the trade. The three
countries to, buy more wool than in the
previous season were Japan, Italy and
France.
G.M., one of the biggest wool-broking,
pastoral-finance, pastoral and agency
houses in the Commonwealth, keeps on
adding to its stature by absorptions and
otherwise. Last term two businesses were
bought, one at Orange (N.S.W.) and
another at Derby (W.A.). The goodwill
involved (£19,786) was written off out of
earnings. Since the close of accounts
another business at Kaniva (Vic.) has been
taken over, and five new branches have
been opened in South Australia and two
in Westralia.
During the year the co. received
402,000 bales (down 6000 bales) and sold
413,831 bales (up 36,121 bales), reducing
the carry-forward to 39,101 bales. Sales
of livestock, land and merchandise, and
earnings from the co.’s own four pro-
perties in western N. S. Wales contri-
buted to the pool, too. Turnover from
all sources was over £28,000,000 (down
£27,000,000). The drop in gross profit
was £562,296: —
Provi-
Year, Gross* dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Fund. Profit.
1949 .. 1,925,948 1.494,573 18,626 412,749
1950 .. 2,444.603 1,826,294 22,102 596,207
1951 .. 3,868,875 3,123,947 26,764 718,164
1952 . . 3,306,579 2,814,255 35,230 457,094
* Includes surplus on realisation of investments.
The contraction of £309,692 in exes, was
due to reductions in amounts set aside
for taxation (£573,275, down £639,934)
and depreciation (£125,091, down
£16,222). The £457,094 of profit was
14.2 p.c. on capital as against 22.4, 18.6,
12.9, 11.2 and 6.9 p.c. back to 1947.
The distribution, composition of which
is shown in the following table, was
lowered from 15 p.c. to 10 p.c.:
1948. 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Div. .i 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 7 p.c.
Bonus .. 2~ 4 „ 6 ~ 8 „ 3 „
Total ..8„ 10 ~ 12 ~ 15 10 „
A year ago the market priced the f.-p.
£1 shares at 565., giving a return of
5.4 p.c. on al5 p.c. distribution. At last
week’s figure of 375. 4d. the return is
5.3 p.c. on alO p.c, basis. Net tangible
cover is visibly 355. 7d., and the inner
strength is known to be substantial.
What are the prospects of the 10 p.c.
being maintained? At the moment they
are encouraging. Though it is too early
yet to say how the coming season will
pan out, the immediate pastoral outlook
is fair to good in all States, a satisfactory
lambing is anticipated, and livestock
generally are in good shape. Since the
end of March prices for the staple have
strengthened by 21-29 p.c. for Merinos
and by 27-33 p.c. for comeback and cross-
bred types. Most manufacturers have
been following a hand-to-mouth buying
policy, world consumption is reported to
be improving slightly, and current world
production of raw wool is not expected
to exceed mill needs in the early future.
Still, what the long-term trend of wool
prices will be remains to be seen. Growers
recently received another £25,000,000
windfall (previous one was in 1949) from
J.O. profits, and there are three more
instalments to come until a total of
£92,000,000 has been distributed. Returns
from the co.’s own runs, however, will
diminish over the next three years,
because Government resumptions are
expected to reduce the leases to a small
fraction of present carrying capacity.
Everywhere the biggest problem is costs.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a strong
liquid position:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
££ £ £
Capital . . 3,200,000 3,200,000 3,200,000 3,200,000
Debentures 1,639
Creditors .. 3,512,129 4,688,413 9,201,246 8,244,793
Tax reserve 371,751 755,989 774 1,297,248
Liquids .. 3,642,226 3.959,554 5,468,993 4,171,022
Advances . . 3,594,289 4,624,066 8,292,535 7,010,832
Stocks . . 483,054 624,210 969,679 1.395,821
Shares in
subsidiary 73,536 73,536 73.536 73,536
Shares other
cos. . . 52,517 60,195 64,065 64,271
Property,
etc. . . 1,047,900 1,186,804 1,265,043 1,731,990
Plant . . 158,303 233,210 283,666 415,991
Reductions in the creditors item (down
£956,453), advances (down £681,703) and
liquids (down £1,297,971) were due partly
to wool transactions current at the close
of the previous accounts. Bigger
merchandising activities at higher prices
sent stocks up by £426,142, while exten-
sions to wool stores at Adelaide, Mel-
bourne and Perth and purchase of the
businesses already referred to added
£466,947 to properties and £132,325 to
plant.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends— N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£? £/ £, £> &
1945.. 75,931 16,374 10 p.c. = 54,037 5,520 183,099
1946.. 87,809 16,374 12* „ „ 67,546 3,889 186,988
Profit sale property, £1250.. .. 188,238
“Contingencies and depreciation re-
serve’’ appears, £50,000 .. .. 238,238
1947.. 16,374 12* p.c.= 67,546 18,307 256,545
1948.. 910 16,374 12* „ „ 67,546 39,990 296,535
Profit sale assets, £2055 .. .. 298,590
1949.. 136.547 16,874 13J p.c.= 74,301 45,872 344,462
From inner reserves, £30,000 .. 374,462
Profit sale assets, £2342 .. .. 376,804
1950.-128,354 16,374 13f p.c. = 74,301 37,679 414,483
Profit sale assets, £505 .. .. 414,989
1951.. 212 16,374 15 p.c. = 81,056 54,782 469,771
1952.. 135.957 16,374 12* „ ~67,546 52,037 521,808
When assessing prospects of this big
Sydney department store it is well to
remember that for the last 20 years or
more the management has been steadily
strengthening the foundations, financially
and otherwise, thus putting the co. in
good shape to stand up to changes in
economic conditions. The div., which
advanced from 8 p.c. in 1943 to 12? p.c.
in 1946, was sweetened with bonuses of
li p.c. in 1949 and 1950 and 2i p.c. in
1951. The ords. thus joined in the pros-
perity of the post-war boom, which is as
it should be. Last term the bonus was
dropped, leaving the div. at 12? p.c., not
because profits were insufficient to cover
a 15 p.c. distribution, but because current
developments and changes in the outlook
made it wise to further strengthen the
co.’s resources. Only once (in 1951) was
more of the year’s net earnings ploughed
back into the business.
It was spiralling wage and other costs,
including taxation, that pulled last term’s
net earnings back by £16,255. A record
turnover sent gross profits up by
£151,933;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Gross profit £802,623 £819,332 £1,094,899 £1,246,832
Exes. . . 666,076 690,978 942,687 1,110,875
Net .. £136,547 £128,354 £152,212 £135,957
Exes, made off \yith 89.1 p.c. of the gross
profit as against 86.1 p.c. and 84.3 p.c. for
the two preceding terms. The co. paid the
Government £241,000 in income, land
and payroll taxes, or £ 105,000-odd more
than the profit earned for shareholders.
The £135,957 of profit, third-best in the
co.'s history, was enough to pay the pref.
div. (£16,374) and show 22.1 p.c. on the
£540,367 of ord. capital as against 25.1,
20.7, 22.2, 19.9 and 15.9 p.c. back to
1947.
However, there have been big changes
in the 'background of retail and other
trading, brought about mainly by a flood
of imports, tightening of credit, swing
from a sellers’ to a buyers’ market,
and the continued spiralling of costs.
In the textile and wholesale trades,
which have been hit hardest, there has
been some unloading of goods at cut
prices to meet current commitments. In
the retail field there has been a growth
in inventories, a trek toward cheaper
goods, and a sluggishness in turnover
toward and since the close of accounts.
To meet the year’s growth of £385,831
in stocks and of £30,883 in book-debts
the co. went to its bankers for an extra
£200,312 and added only £50,132 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc. ;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £813,269 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Overdraft ..
Sundry
creditors*.. 174,661 216,360 235,413 285,545
Tax reserve . . 281,023 235,443 297,079 422,327
Final divs. .. 48,714 48,714 55,470 41,960
Property .. 763,517 756,469 765,312 765,757
Plant, etc. .. 50,000 62,355 53,000 50,000
Stocks . . 676,237 741,384 922,728 1,308,559
Book debts . . 117,467 127,164 203,379 234,262
Cash, etc. . . 54,909 40,898 50,275 50,385
* Includes internal provisions, etc., £86,311 (up
£31,334) 1952.
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus, or working capital
(£519,320), was £54,592. Although stocks
are high considering the trend of turn-
over, import cuts have removed a lot of
the danger in this respect. And an inner
reserve exists to cushion the effects of any
sharp fall in stock prices. So, although
balanced trading may call for a smaller
inventory, there is nothing at the moment
to suggest that the co. is likely to run into
trouble in the process. In all other
respects the management also enjoys the
reputation of being alive to its problems.
Still, the trend toward consumer resist-
ance persists, costs, always a stubborn
item, have not yet turned downwards,
and competition is beginning to get more
of an edge on it, and is likely to become
keener, which means narrow profit-
margins in the fight to hold turnover.
Some further recession in net earnings is
therefore to be expected.
The market expresses its doubts by
pricing the f.-p. £1 ords. at 355. 3d. (595.
a year ago) to return 7.1 p.c. on a 12i p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 255. yield 4.8 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £4 17s. lOd. prefs.
and 395. 3d. ords.
William Adams & Cos.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1945.. 37.960 1750 10.1 p.c.= 24,792 11,418 106,382
1946.. 41.821 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 15,279 121,661
1947.-53,763 1750 10.1 „ „ 35,416 16,597 138,258
From tax reserve, £25,000 . . . . 163,258
Unexplained addition, £1378 .. .. 164,636
1948.. 85.217 1750 10.1 p.c.= 85,416 48,051 212,687
Share premiums, £90,000 .. .. 302,687
Unexplained addition, £1686 .. .. 304,373
1949.101,635 1750 12.8 p.c.= 58,229 41,656 346,029
Added insurance reserve, £1755 .. 347,744
1950.111,078 1750 12.8 n.c.= 58,229 51,099 398,843
1951.190,728 875 15 „ ~108,750 81,103 479,946
1952.195,749 l5 „ ~108,750 86,999 566,945
The extraordinary and unfaltering
growth of post-war earnings reflects the
heavy demand for engineering and
electrical supplies, and the hardware lines,
lubricants and tractor and earth-moving
and agricultural machinery which this old-
established co. with Commonwealth-wide
connections handles. It holds the Vic-
torian and Tasmanian agencies for the
Caterpillar Tractor and Deere cos. of
U.S.A.; and sales and servicing in this
department o£ the business have contri-
buted substantially to both earnings and
capital requirements.
To help finance the expanding trade
shareholders put up £465,000 of fresh
capital, which brought with it £90,000 of
share-premiums, during the past six years,
lifting paid capital to £725,000. The last
£245,000 (used largely to lighten the
overdraft) was gathered early in the 1951
term, when £25,000 of 7 p.c. pref. money
was also converted into a like amount of
ord capital.
Turnover took another big leap last
term, due in part to rising prices and in-
creased imports from both the sterling and
dollar areas, as well as to better supplies
of steel and other merchandising lines
from local sources. So, despite spiralling
costs, the co. was able to show a record
profit of £195,749 (up £5021). The figure,
which includes £4187 dropped from some-
where into the insurance reserve, was
written after allowing £29,380 (up £9764)
for depreciation, an unspecified but
“greatly increased” amount for taxation
and something for other contingencies,
too. The £195,749 was 27 p.c. on capital
as against 26.3, 23.1, 21.2, 22.7 and
14.3 p.c. back to 1947. So maintenance
of the 15 p.c. div, was. an easy matter.
The £86,999 that remained lifted visible
support and protection for capital to
£566,945.
Owing to the pressure of costs, the im-
provement in the profit figure was small
in relation to growth of the business.
Stocks increased by £361,372 and book-
debts by £129,143. And the addition of
£59,857 to freeholds and of £37,746 to
plant suggests that some of the bigger
trading is expected to hold;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £480,000 £480,000 £725,000 £725,000
Overdraft . . 190,452 254,050 21,281 430,817
Sndyxsreditors* 31>5,799 608,271 702,670 802,285
Final divs. . . 35,208 35,208 65,250 65,250
Freeholds . . 148,607 198,851 227,506 287,364
Plant, etc. . . 41,672 62,667 83,530 121,276
Stocks . . 617,783 898.877 835,468 1,196,840
Book debts . . 585,402 590,038 713,022 842,165
Cash, etc. . . 24,024 25,949 134,621 142,652
* Including provision for tax and other contingencies.
To meet the outlay the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £409,536 and added
£99,615 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. The size of stocks —they
appear at or under cost —is partly a hedge
against import cuts.
Still, when the books closed, there was
19s. Id. (12s. a year earlier) coming to
the bank and sundry creditors, etc., for
every pound belonging to shareholders
in the business. That suggests the possi-
bility of introduction of yet more share
or other fixed capital; but the board might
prefer to await trade and other develop-
ments before deciding what is best in the
interests of the co. in the long run.
Unless some unforeseen improvement
in general conditions takes place, the co.’s
last results are probably the best that can
be expected for some time. Owing to
the high level of costs, the engineering
trades are already finding it difficult to
compete with overseas manufacturers in
some lines, and the position in this


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. 0. C. GALE. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
♦ * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT DOLAN late of Broken
Hill New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that JACK ANDREW KEMP has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2904 of 1950
against his wife FAITH MURIEL KEMP
on the ground of her adultery with you
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Bth day of September 1952 and obtain a
copy of the Petition wtihout charge from
J. H. PEOPLES, Solicitor, 77-79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HENRY ALFRED MARDELL and
MAVIS CORBEY both late of Malabar
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that JUNE EDITH MARDELL
has filed a Petition No. 52 of 1952 praying
for a divorce or judicial separation from
HENRY ALFRED MARDELL on the
grounds of his adultery with one MAVIS
CORBEY If you the said HENRY
ALFRED MARDELL wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 9th day of September 1962
You the said MAVIS CORBEY may apply
to the said Court to be allowed to defend
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG, 160
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-13 Parramatta Boad,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
Telephones: FA 2176 (8 lines)
Telegraphic Address:
Oorrientes, Brisbane.
CORRIE & CO.
Douglas M. Corrle, Robin M. Corrle
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
respect is likely to get worse
before it becomes better. For
these and other reasons some
shrinkage in demand for general
engineering lines can be expected.
Still, import restrictions will tend
to cushion the effects of overseas
competition.
The market for the co.’s scrip,
which dropped from 655. a year
ago to 395. in April, 1952, had
strengthened to 455. last week.
The return at 455, is 6.6 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 355. 7d.
Sungei Bidor Tin
The popularity of this co.’s
scrip, which has always stood
high in the market, has been
enhanced by the recent
announcement of the board’s
intention to distribute profits as
they are earned rather than make
further substantial additions to
reserves.
Following speedy post-war
rehabilitation, the co. got its
dredge going again in March,
1947. Operating and financial
results for the four years
to the close of last accounts
were;
Treated, r —Recoveries—,, Div.,
c.y., t.o.* Gold.f Proflt.t 60 p.e.
Jne., ’OOO. Tons. Oz. £ £
’48..3501 576.1 444.8 75,823 72,000
20 p.c.
’49.. 2957 486.3 315.1 69,664 24,000
60 p.c.
’50.. 3679 636.8 633.5 123,385 72,000
180 p.c.
’51..3720 847.2 1259.7 389,809 216,000
* Assay approx. 76 p.c. metallic tin.
t Smelted gold. 7 After deducting taxation
and provision for depreciation, etc.
Last term more higher-grade
ground—o.sllb. ore per c.y. as
against 0.391 b, in the previous
year—was handled for a bigger
recovery of tin ore and gold.
Operating costs were 6.8 and. (up
only 0.2 and.) per c.y. London
average spot price per ton of
the metal rocketed from £8601.75
for June, 1949, to a peak of
£81318.25 for March, 1951, and
then eased to £8983 for the fol-
lowing June. The figure, which
has since fluctuated mainly
within the £SB6O-£SIOOO bracket,
stood at £8970.5 last week.
After allowing £155,000 (up
£107,000) for taxation and the
usual £20,000 for depreciation,
etc., the profit was a juicy
£389,809 (up £246,424), equal to
324 p.c. on capital as against
102.8 p.c. and 58 p.c. for the two
preceding years. The div. was
lifted from 60 p.c. to 180 p.c.
Since the close of accounts
three divs. totalling £270,000
(225 p.c.). have been paid.
At the close of last accounts
there was about 30,000,000 c.y.
of approximate |lb. ground
awaiting treatment, or over eight
years’ work for the dredge.
At June 30, 1951, current
assets totalled £581,482
£503,813 of it was held in cash —
and liabilities amounted to
£276,008, of which £55,176 was
a Government rehabilitation
loan, which will be partly or
wholly offset by the co.’s war-
damage claim, assessed (amount
not stated) but not yet paid.
Last week buyers offered 725.
and sellers asked 80s. for the
scrip, which had advanced from
48s. early in 1951 to 675. a month
or so ago. At last week’s middle
price of 765. the market values
the undertaking at £912,000.
THE CONSOLIDATED
ZINC CORPORATION
Very Satisfactory Results
Mr. John R. Govett on Price Factor
The third annual general meet-
ing of the Consolidated Zinc Cor-
poration Ltd. was held on June 25
at 37 Dover Street, London, W. 1,
Mr. John R. Govett (the chair-
man) presiding.
The following are extracts from
his circulated statement: —
The results for 195 1 are very
satisfactory, with prices for lead
and zinc maintained at a high
level throughout the year. The
group profit before taxation
amounted to £7,031,874, com-
pared with £4,570,800 for 1950,
an increase of £2,461,074. Tax-
ation absorbs £4,483,113, as
against £3,011,419 for the
previous year. The net profit
available for distribution is
£2,404,708, which shows an in-
crease of £975,028. The directors
consider that the results justify
an increase in the final distribu-
tion, and they recommend a final
dividend of 2/- per .share, to-
gether with a bonus of 1/- per
share. These proposals give a
total distribution for the year of
4/- per share, compared with 2/6
per share for 1950. The total
sum retained in the group out of
revenue and capital profits earned
during the year amounts to
£1,747,302.
Capital expenditure during the
year amounted to £1,609,622, of
which £822,123 related to the
smelting and other plants of Im-
perial Smelting Corporation Ltd.,
in the United Kingdom. In addi-
tion, there were capital commit-
ments outstanding at December
31, 1951, amounting to
£1,279,000.
The year’s results reflect not
°nly a high level of prices for
our products, but a high degree
of efficiency throughout our
operations.
the scramble for supplies
In reviewing the world lead and
zinc markets last year I stressed
the unfortunate position in which
the U.K. consumers had found
themselves. The figures that I
gave you showed that whereas
in 1950 imports into the U.S.A.,
both in the form of metal and
concentrate, increased very sub-
stantially, imports into the U.K.
showed a decrease at a time of
expanding consumption. This
situation resulted from the
rigidity of bulk purchase in the
UK. when compared with the
flexible policy adopted by Ameri-
can fabricators operating inde-
pendently in the world’s markets,
n the year 1951 we have seen
, ® trend reversed in the U.S.A.
* n January, 1951, the United
States Government imposed ceil-
lng prices on both lead and zinc
®t the 17 and \l\ cents level;
hese prices being subsequently
raised on October 1 last to 19
and 19£ cents respectively. Fol-
°wing upon this policy of price
c °ntrol a heavy demand for both
petals developed in the rest of the
ree world, where market quota-
lons rose substantially above the
nited States ceiling prices. The
United Kingdom Government,
criticised for its shortcomings in
the previous year, joined with the
other countries in the race for
supplies, and in obtaining mar-
ginal tonnages they paid little
heed to the United States ceiling
prices.
INTERNATIONAL MATERIALS
CONFERENCE
To deal with the scramble for
supplies, which was prevalent
also in a number of other im-
portant commodities, the Inter-
national Materials 'Conference
was held in Washington in the
spring of 1951. The object of
this conference and of the com-
mittees which were then formed
has been to allocate among the
free world the available tonnages
of such strategic materials as
were considered to be in short
supply. Zinc, in view of its im-
portance to the defence pro-
gramme, was given a high place
in the discussions, and with the
agreement of the participating
countries an international allo-
cation scheme came into effect in
the last quarter of 1951. Lead,
although the assumed shortage
was almost as great, is no longer
regarded as having the same
strategic importance as zinc,
hence this metal was not in-
cluded in the scheme, although
from time to time it was an-
nounced that a close watch was
being kept on its position.
Although it was not within the
terms of reference of the Inter-
national Materials Conference to
dictate a uniform price for metals,
the effect of international or
even domestic allocations was
equivalent in its influence on
prices to prewar commodity
schemes which controlled the rate
of production or export from pro-
ducing countries with a view to
securing some stability of price.
In view of the many political
and economic issues that are tied
to the rise and fall in world com-
modity prices, it seems unlikely
that the machinery that has now
been set up to deal with such
problems will be allowed to fall
into permanent disuse. It may be
said, however, with some confi-
dence that if the more violent
movements in commodity prices
can be ironed out without inter-
fering with the natural laws of
substitution, producers will be
able to enter into long-term
capital and labor commitments
without incurring the tremendous
risks that have faced them in the
the past.
The high prices of the past two
years have encouraged the search
for fresh sources of production,
and though time must elapse be-
fore new supplies reach the
market it is hoped that the
normal growth in the world’s re-
quirements on a peace-time basis
will take care of this increase and
reward the venturesome for their
enterprise.
The report was adopted.
Anglo-Iranian Oil Company
Increased Supplies from Other Sources
Offset Iranian Cessation
Sir William Fraser’s Statement
The 43rd annual general meeting of
the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company Ltd.
was held on June 26 in London,
England.
The following is an extract from
the statement to stockholders by the
Chairman, Sir William Fraser,
C.8.E., covering the year 1951:
The gross trading profit of
£71,377,882, compared with
£115,495,994 last year, results from
all of the widespread activities in
which the Company is interested.
After providing for taxation on
profits from all sources, the amount
available for reserves and dividends
is £24,233,050, compared with
£33,102,572 for 1950. Your Directors
have allocated £1 million to Prefer-
ence Stock Reserve, bringing the total
to £9 million, and have placed £l6
million to General Reserve, which
now stands at £Bl million. They
have recommended a final dividend
of 25 per cent., less income-tax, on
the Ordinary stock, making 30 per
cent, for the year.
INTERESTS IN IRAN
In my statement to you last
November I described the course of
events which had so gravely injured
the Company’s interests in Iran. To-
wards the end of last year the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and
Development approached the British
and Iranian Governments and offered
its good offices to assist in the settle-
ment of the differences between them,
both being members of the Interna-
tional Bank.
Subject to the agreement of the
parties the Bank intended, in its role
as a neutral and impartial institution,
to set up for a limited period of time
a temporary management for the
operation of the oil properties which
would be responsible to the Bank:
there was, however, no intention of the
Bank engaging in oil operations per-
manently or as a business venture.
The aim would be to achieve agree-
ment on a temporary arrangement
(covering a period of two years or
less) whereby efficient large-scale
operations in South Iran might be
restored, in the interests of Iran, the
United Kingdom and the Bank’s
members as a whole, and in the hope
of creating an atmosphere suitable
for the negotiation of a final settle-
ment.
There followed a series of discus-
sions, after which a joint communique
was issued by the Iranian Govern-
ment and the International Bank
indicating that no agreement had
been reached on several important
points. The Bank later published a
detailed review of the negotiations in
which it was explained that the main
unresolved issues were concerned
with the status of the Bank during
the period of its operations in Iran,
with the employment by the Bank of
British Technicians and, thirdly, with
the price at which oil might be sold
by the Bank.
In the absence of agreement on
these points it will be realised that a
basis for the operation of the industry
did not exist. In addition the ques-
tion of prices at which oil would be
purchased by the Company was
explored with the Iranian Government
and no conclusion was reached.
PRODUCTION AND REFINING
Operations in the oilfields of Iran
continued normally until June, 1951,
except for a slight interruption due
to a strike in April. In June pro-
duction was cut back and in July was
shut in as, export had ceased and
storage was lull.
Compared with 1950 there was a
decrease during 1951 of 15,573,000
tons in the oil production at our
disposal from Iran, and an increase
of 6,820,000 tons from our share of
production in Kuwait, Iraq and
Qatar. During 1952 our supplies from
these three sources are expected to
be about 26,000,000 tons, compared
with 16,632,000 tons in 1951. Our
crude oil production in the United
Kingdom was 45,100 tons. In Scot-
land production of shale was 1,411,000
tons, yielding 104,500 tons of oil.
Our exploration activities continue
in various parts of the world. In
Papua, where we work in partnership
with American and Australian
interests, two deep wells were drilled
during the year and one gravity and
three seismic exploration parties were
active. Owing to complex geology
and difficult working conditions in
tropical forest, progress is slow.
The statement then referred to the
refining operations in Iran until activi-
ties ceased, in Iraq, Kuwait, France,
Italy, Belgium and Germany.
In Great Britain, throughputs at
Llandarcy and Grangemouth were
greatly increased.
Good progress has been made with
construction of our Kent refinery,
which it is hoped will start opera-
tions at half its eventual 4,000,000
tons per annum capacity during this
coming summer.
In Australia the Laverton plant of
Commonwealth Oil Refineries treated
143.000 tons of crude oil in 1951. We
have decided to build a new refinery
at Kwinana, near Fremantle, which
will have a capacity of 3,000,000 tons
a year.
PIPELINE AND SEA TRANSPORT
The commissioning in May, 1951, of
the Finnart to Grangemouth pipeline
across Scotland enabled the greater
part of our crude oil supplies for
Grangemouth refinery to be imported
by this route.
In my last report I informed you
that the British Tanker Company’s
fleet numbered 153 ships of 1,854,000
deadweight tops. Since than two old
ships have been sold and four new
28.000 ton ships have been delivered,
making the present total 155 ships of
1.950.000 deadweight tons. There re-
main under construction or on order
21 ships totalling 426,000 deadweight
tons. We have on charter about
2,000,000 deadweight tons of tanker
shipping, more than half of which is
fixed for several years ahead.
Although tankers are being built at
a rate of about two million dead-
weight tons annually, more than half
of them in British shipyards, the
world tonnage has remained barely
adequate to demand and consequently
freight rates have remained high.
Further substantial orders have, how-
ever, been placed, both in the United
Kingdom and elsewhere, including
many ships for comparatively early
delivery.
DISTRIBUTION AND SALES
World demand for petroleum pro-
ducts increased by approximately 12
per cent, in 1951 compared with the
preceding year, this high rate of ex-
pansion having thus occurred for
two years in succession, in meeting
so striking an increase in world con-
sumption despite the cessation of sup-
plies from Iran at the end of June,
the world oil industry has once again
demonstrated the strength of its
resources and the flexibility of its
operations.
After supplies from Iran had ceased
in July we supplemented the fullest
use of our own crude oil and
refineries by hiring refining capacity
and by purchases from other sources.
The result was that our sales for the
year declined only by some 2,000,0U0
tons from the 1950 total of 38,500,000
tons, although events in Iran deprived
us of some 15,000,000 tons of sup-
plies from that source. Our largely
increased supplies of crude oil from
Kuwait, Iraq and Qatar have more
than offset the discontinuance of our
crude oil exports from Iran. The
increased supply of refined products
from our own refineries and from
processing arrangements made with
other refiners cannot, however, meet
our marketing requirements. We
shall continue to supplement our own
supplies of products by purchases
where we can do so on satisfactory
terms, thus using every endeavour to
conserve both our goodwill and a
sound trading position until such time
as we have available supplies from
our own resources sufficient to enable
the Company once again to go for-
ward and expand its business as in
the past. Profit margins on such pur-
chases have suffered from the high
rates of freight which have prevailed,
and the extent to which this purchas-
es policy can be followed is governed
by many factors and is constantly
under review.
A major change took place during
the year in the marketing of motor
spirit in the United Kingdom, where
schemes were introduced under which
the service station or garage owner
can, if he wishes, undertake to sell
exclusively the motor spirit of one
company, or, as in the case of the
scheme operated by our marketing
company, the motor spirit \of a
selected number of companies.
Similar developments have taken
place in Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa. By the adoption of
this method and by the closer co-
operation with the dealer it is hoped
to secure economies of distribution
and to improve the standard of ser-
vice to the motorist.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN McNAMARA formerly of 22 Fleming Street
Beverley Hills Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA GRACE Mc-
NAMARA has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2123
of 1952 on the grounds of habitual drunkenness and
cruelty during three years and upwards and that
during three years and upwards you have been an
habitual drunkard and habitually left her without
the means of support If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 16th day
of September 1952 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES,
Solicitor, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA —
In Divorce.
TO KEITH HENRY ROBERT McLEAN formerly of
Melbourne in the State of Victoria Labourer —TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice to you to appear and answer
the charges in the Petition of BERTHA DOROTHY
McLEAN of Adventure Bay in Tasmania praying for
dissolution of marriage on the ground of desertion
and in default of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said charges proved and pronounce
iudgment therein your absence notwithstanding
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid an appearance must be entered at the
Principal Registry of the Supreme Court Macquarie
c,, 'p/ P Hobart within thirty days of the publication
Kf. S MTEDfl.fi UOjdgt J»».
w. FOALE, Principal Registrar.
Women’s Letters
From Melbourne \
’’The spring collectioh of Ecstasy frocks
presented at the Oriental was notable for
line and fabric. Pleated or fully-flared
bias-cut skirts and moulded bodices fol-
lowed the silhouette sponsored by many
famous French designers. Skirts will be
14 inches from the ground, and will flare
becomingly over wide, stiffened petticoats.
All-silk shantung organza and glace shan-
tung were among fabrics used in these
lovely designs. New to Australia were
the “double” cloths, such as organza and
satin interwoven to give a brocaded effect.
Looking ahead to the November race-
carnival, the designers of Ecstasy frocks
made a new play on the two-piece
ensemble. This was admirably shown in
a thunder-grey glace shantung. Under a
fitted hip-length jacket with three-quarter
sleeves was worn a full-skirted afternoon
frock made with a short-sleeved bodice
buttoning to the waist and with the wide
neckline cut outwards to the shoulders.
Another attractive race suit of black
faille comprised a slim-fronted frock with
a halter-necked bodice of black-and-
yellow-checked taffeta finished with two
huge black and yellow roses in front and
a brief jacket. Very elegant was an after-
noon frock of black sheer crepe with
pleated taffeta flouncing outlining the
bodice and crossing to cascade across the
skirt in an apron effect and giving fullness
to the hemline. There was not one formal
evening-gown. The current vogue for
short, full dance frocks was shown in a
model named Chantilly Fondant, a
ballerina-length of fine grey lace mounted
on pink faille. The strapless bodice had
a scalloped edge, and was worn under
a tiny grey lace bolero. Among the
bewitching colors used was sundust, a
pale gold ; eggshell, a delicate grey ; star
ruby, a rich red ; Paris haze, a mist-blue ;
sweet mignonette, gardenia-mist, crocus-
pink and magnolia.
Evie Hayes, back again in this city,
complete v/ith new profile, to attend to
some business matters for her husband,
Will Mahoney, has found time to give a
return season of “Annie Get Your Gun,”
and is now hard at work rehearsing with
her new leading man, Hayes Gordon.
The new nose which the plastic surgeon
gave Evie has, as it were, streamlined
her profile, making her even more attrac-
tive-looking than she was. Her vivacity,
of course, didn’t need any attention.
Evie, seen at blind pianist Alec Temple-
ton’s concert, was wearing a ballerina-
length frock of black organza which
featured a very bouffant pleated skirt
worn over several stiffened petticoats.
Her full-length black coat was of silk
taffeta and her shoes of gold kid.
Stage dressing for the Tommy Trinder
show at the Tivoli was gorgeous. Group-
ings of yellows, purples and greens made a
fine effect for the Temple Dancers and
the Ta-Ra-Ra girls. In the audience were
Evie Hayes, in a persimmon-red faille
coat over a black frock; Mrs. Lionel
Newton,, a full-length silver-blue mink
coat covering her black frock; Lady
Connolly, whose coat was of forest-green
velvet; Mrs. Constance Day, who allied
a jet-beaded black wool evening sweater
with a full skirt of old-rose satin; and
Mrs. Toby Newton, who wore a silver-
fox cape over her short black evening
frock.
Mrs. Alec Templeton, wife of the
famous blind pianist now touring Aus-
tralia under J. and N. Tail’s flag, is an
attractive woman with a keen mind who
has quite a grasp of international affairs.
During the war, when young Australian
servicemen were in America, it was her
delight to assist her husband in their
entertainment. At Christmas and on her
birthdays her husband always presents
her with one of his musical compositions
in her honor. While in Victoria they
visited Sherbrooke hoping to hear the
elusive lyrebird so that Alec could in-
corporate its voice in the music he makes.
Back in Greenwich, Connecticut, almost
everything in the 75-year-old, white-frame
house in which the Templetons live plays
a tune. They are hoping to take back
musical-boxes which play “Waltzing
Matilda” and “On the Road to Gun-
dagai.”
A number of women who live on the
Mornington Peninsula have formed them-
selves into the Mount Eliza Women’s
Club, of which Mrs. Reg Ansett is the
president. They include Mrs. E. B. Coles,
Mrs. Harold Brockhoff and Mrs, B. Car-
negie, and the club intends to raise money
for various good causes. First function
will be on July 4, when a dinner-dance
and mannequin parade will be staged at
the Hotel Manyung. The fashions will
be supplied by George’s, of Collins-street,
and will include the new-season swim-
suits. Six mannequins will model the
clothes, which, by way of contrast, will
also include luxurious furs. Proceeds will
aid the Andrew Kerr Memorial Home at
Mornington.
“The First Born,” the Christopher Fry
play produced by Irene Mitchell at the
Little Theatre, is the story of the refusal
of Pharaoh to let the Children of Israel
go free, which resulted in the death of
the first-born of Egypt, including that of
Rameses, his own son. The three women
in the play are excellently cast; Muriel
Hearne, who has appeared in many Little
Theatre productions, was Miriam, sister
of Moses; Anath Bithiah, sister of
Pharaoh, was portrayed by Judith
George; and as Teusret, Pharaoh’s
daughter, Sonny Bridges was youthful and
appealing. Among first-nighters were
Mrs. F. W- Thring, Mrs. D. J. Ross and
Mrs. Russell Gouriay.
In their penthouse on top of the Com-
monwealth Bank the Len Doolings gave
a late-afternoon party to bid au revoir to
Frank Carlson, his wife and daughter
Judith, who shortly leave to make their
home in Sydney. The hostess wore a
midnight-blue shot-taffeta ballerina frock
and Mrs. Carlson a black faille jacket-
suit with small black hat. Judith’s black
Chantilly lace frock was mounted on blue
taffeta and her tiny hat was of black
velvet. Among the guests were Mr. and
Mrs. Harold Rabling, the latter in an
attractive suit of deep-blue wool which
had across the shoulder a large bow of
ruby-red velvet; Mrs. Earl Daum, who
wore a dusty-pink cloche with her cock-
tail suit of black glace shantung; Mrs.
Harry Cavanaugh, in honey-beige coat
with facings of lynx fur and a small
matching felt hat.
Myra Roper, principal of the Uni-
versity Women’s College, is the holder
of degrees from the universities of Cam-
bridge and London. Before coming to
Melbourne Miss Roper was assistant to
the Director of Education in Wiltshire.
The recipient of a Carnegie Travelling
Scholarship, she spent seven months tour-
ing England' and America visiting
women’s colleges and universities. Her
hobby is producing plays; at present site
is busy supervising the production for
the Tin Alley Players of “King John,”
which will be presented shortly in the
Union Theatre.
That popular pair James and Janet
Bowen Pain are home again after a trip
overseas and have issued invitations for
friends to meet them —which means, of
course, a really super party. When in
London they met one of their best friends,
Strella Wilson, and shortly before sailing
for home spent an evening with Evelyn
Laye and Frank Lawton. Dinner at the
Ivy was followed by the Lyric Revue,
where Janet and Bowen met Alfred Lunt
and Lynn Fontanne, and finished up the
evening at Giro’s, where Kathleen
Durham was dancing. Pictorial scarves
bought in various countries visited will
remind Janet of her travels.
From Sydney
The lovely chandelier in the foyer of
the Town Hall shone on 250 people at
the Lady Mayoress’s Musicale on Thurs-
day, when baritone James Wilson opened
the programme with some delightful Irish
and Scottish songs: “By Bendemeer
Stream,” “Down by the Salley Gardens,”
“The Bonnie Earl of Moray” and the
stirring “Bonnets of Bonny Dundee.” The
programme was arranged by Mrs. W.
Hope Gibson, who at the last moment
called on Lindley Evans to assist, as
pianist Dorothy While was floodbound at
Wagga. Among the official guests were
Mrs. R. F. Berryman, Mrs. E. Langker,
Mrs, James McGirr and Mrs. Heffron.
Afternoon-tea was served under the
gallery in the main hall after the concert.
Of interest to Australians is the recent
knighthood conferred on Sir Mortimer
Wheeler; his wife, as Margaret Colling-
ridge, was well known in Sydney and
Melbourne. Sir Mortimer is an archae-
ologist attached to the British Museum ;
so is his wife.
Sydney solicitor Veronica Pike set
off during the week by Qantas
for Istanbul, where she will attend a
convention of women lawyers. She plans
after the conference to go to England,
where she will be present at a Royal
garden-party. She will- return to Aus-
tralia early in January.
One doesn’t usually think of Zanzibar
as a good place to shop, but according
to Mrs. H. J. Brady, who has just re-
turned from a tour of South Africa with
her husband, it is fascinating, with pretty
things and all the best perfumes much
cheaper than elsewhere. The Bradys
visited Mombasa and Tanga, and saw the
Festival celebrating 300 years, in which
all Africa took part. They returned by
the Afric, coming in north of Australia
and through the many islands of the
Barrier Reef.
Here is a new picture of an old friend.
Lady Butters, who on Friday received
the debs at the Hiawatha dance at Parra-
matta, in aid of the N.S.W. Society for
Crippled Children. The presentation
was shown in the dance programmes,
was delightfully original, as there were 10
debs led by “a saucy little redhead,” so
the theme-music throughout was “Ten
Pretty Girls.” Another unusual touch
each featuring a miniature photo of
the individual debs on the cover, no
doubt to be treasured by each of them
for the rest of her life. Lady Butters
has always been interested in the Society
for Crippled Children, having been a
foundation member of its North Shore
auxiliary. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Iris and orchids were the beautiful and
rather exotic floral decorations of the
Royal Empire rooms when the ladies’
auxiliary held its first party since the
Royal mourning ended. Hostess Mrs.
A. W. Keighley wore a dress of blue satin
with a matching coat and hat in velvet.
Her co-hostess, Mrs. D. Lindsay, looked
smart in black. During the afternoon
Doris Fitton presented some scenes from
the Independent Theatre’s recent success
“Black Chiffon,” and Elizabeth Tarbett
sang Scottish and Irislj songs, several, as
the “Covenanters Lament,” written by her
husband.
Preparations for the Black and White
Ball glide smoothly forward. It was not
revealed at the latest committee meeting
just what the recipe for the main supper
dish was, but it certainly contains cream,
mushrooms, veal and wine, which is
enough to set mouths watering even
months ahead. The date of the ball is
October 7, so country people who plan
to be in Sydney then should hop in now
for their tickets. There is always a terrific
demand for these, so it’s best to get your
name down now even if the tickets are
not issued till later. Application can be
made to the secretary of the ball com-
mittee at the Blind Institution, Sydney.
It would be a good thing if programmes
were sold when seats, for shows are
booked. One could read them thoroughly
then before the performance, instead of
glancing at them hurriedly between saying
“How do you do?,” “How do you do?” in
the dim light of the theatre. The manage-
ment would make more money, too, be-
cause some people would be bound to
leave their programmes at home and have
to buy a new one (or is this a dis-
advantage?).
It was because of not having had time
to read the programme that this Letter
thought “Antonia,” National Opera’s
ballet last week, was a surrealist dream
when it really was a carnival. It was a
very unusual ballet, dramatic and excit-
ing, written to the music of Sibelius by
Walter Gore, and beautifully danced by
Paula Hinton, Walter himself and Ron
Reay. There wasn’t a very good house,
but then Monday is always weak in Show
business and there are two more weeks
of this ballet company, which really
deserves a hand.
Jimmy Hanley’s show “To Dorothy a
Son” opened the following night, this
time to a packed house. This is the play
in which Dorothy is heard but not seen.
Rosemary Miller’s engaging, ringing voice
made the part most attractive. The play
itself is slight, never subtle, sometimes a
little vulgar, but never sentimental, and
it makes you laugh. After all, that’s what
a comedy is supposed to do, isn’t it? The
showgirls from the forthcoming Folies
Bergere were sitting in two of the boxes
at this performance —three girls in black
and three in white. They are all at least
sft. lOin. tall and rather overwhelming at
that, but the really awe-inspiring thought
is that if they stood on top of one
another’s heads they would reach about
40ft. in the air!
Noticed several women artists at the
Contemporary Group’s 25th exhibition of
paintings in Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries ;
Jean Isherwood, Thea Proctor, Enid
Cambridge, Grace Cossington-Smith
and Ena Joyce (whose paintings
of Tasmania make it seem such
a darling little place). The show
was opened by Charles Salisbury,
whose wife came with him to look at the
pictures. Mr. Salisbury is connected with
the National Arts Council, which was until
recently represented here by Sir Angus
Gillan (another thing these two gentle-
men have in common is that they both
stretch a long way skyward). Looking
in the paintings for something of Sydney’s
unique quality, one missed it in Roland
Wakelin’s “Loftus Street,” which seems
too static. Margaret Dunn’s “Morning
near Circular Quay” certainly reproduces
the terrible jumble that the Quay has
become. George Lawrence’s “Berry’s
Bay” and “Long Nose Point” have some-
thing of the magic of this city, however.
Another of those church signs of the
times: “People who watch the clock
usually remain as hands.”
Committee members are busy collecting
lavish prizes for dances to take place later
in the year. The Lady Mayoress’s Ball
has a refrigerator, no less (donated by
Sir Edward Hallstrom), a pressure-canner,
a handmade petit-point handbag. The
Black and White Ball (largely owing to
the efforts of Mrs. Ewart Brisbin) has an
Elizabeth Arden beauty-box, a Pellier
model, something from Germaine Rocher,
a brush set, a tennis racquet, champagne,
a silver entree dish, a wrought-iron table,
a hair-do from Simonet and (wait for it!)
a ukulele. Talking of dance committees,
Mrs. Tom Bateman, president of the
Opera Ball committee, says that the
parade and judging of costumes is to take
place at 9.30 p.m. —early, it’s true, but
she says (quite rightly) that it’s only early
in the night that costumes really look
their best. The Opera Ball is on August
16.
Michael Rabin, the 16-year-old
prodigy from New York who plays the
violin so beautifully, is an enfant terrible
in the drawing-room. At the reception
given for him by the Sydney Symphony
Ladies’ Committee, one really hesitated to
sit down for fear he had put a tack
on the chair. Wearing a huge camellia-
bud in his buttonhole he flitted about,
and although rather large to flit, he did
have some Pucklike quality about him—
Puck and Billy Bunter, if you can imagine
it. He seems quite without timidity,
nervousness or even self-consciousness.
He also seems, however, to be without
guile, ill-will or gloom, which makes him
withal quite likeable.


a
With
E BUMPER
builded a house of brick,
'Twas as sound as sound could be.
But the builder himself was out of
repair,
And a ragged cough coughed he.
“ "Tis a wooden suit I’ll be wearing
soon,”
Said he, and his face was dour,
But he beat the old Reaper in just
two hours
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cure.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Seriousfinancial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists Body and Drawtubes
or Naturalists. of Br ° nze l Brass >
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece-
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
ẁ
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
£l3/10/-
+ 12i% Sales Tax
ẃ
ẅ
4? HUNTER SIR EFT, SYDNEY.
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Genial and hawk-nosed. Captain
George lan Hutcheson, R.A.N. (retired),
might know a thing or two about his new
post— president of the Metal Trades
Employers’ Association. First exercising
his own bellows at Coleraine (Vic.) 55
years ago, he has been intimately con-
nected with things metallic since, with a
Bachelorship of Engineering from
Adelaide University, he joined the R.A.N.
in 1918. In the enginerooms of battle-
cruiser Australia for what was left of
the Kaiser’s war, he later looked after
the boiler-room horses of Adelaide, Can-
berra, Sydney and destroyer Stuart, In
War II he had the important jobs of
Armament Assistant and, later. Engineer
Manager of Garden Island dockyard.
When, in 1947, he left the Navy, Cockatoo
Docks snapped him up ; he’s now manag-
ing-director up there. New destroyer
Voyager, at present fitting-out, is one of
his babies, as was Tobruk, late of Korea,
As two old salts together Professor
Mentor L. Williams and a Bulletin
interviewer got along pretty well: the
interviewer once having worked his way
to London as a third-pantryman, and the
professor, in the lordly capacity of A. 8.,
having visited Sydney for 10 days in
PROF. WILLIAMS, by Heth.
1928 aboard a U.S. freighter . . . the ship-
ping company wouldn’t pay wages for
fear the crew jumped ship, so he lived
ashore on bananas, and, from his meagre
funds, bought a staghorn fern for a
souvenir, which considerably alarmed the
Customs on the other side: possibly they
thought it some kind of noxious
marsupial. On a more exalted plane the
conversation ranged widely around
American and Australian literature and
ended with the surprising discovery that
Walt Whitman, since he attended
symphony concerts before writing “Out
of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking,” might
be regarded as the first American writer
to adopt the tough-guy pose and there-
fore the direct literary ancestor of
Hemingway. Quiet, shrewdly critical and
a personal friend of the poet W- H.
Auden, the professor is lecturing for a
year at Sydney University and elsewhere
on American literature: under the
auspices of the strange but admirable
Fullbright Programme by which we get
U.S. lecturers, research scholars and
students—and send our own to America
■"to help pay for war-time lend-lease.
Who would ever have thought we’d be
acquiring a professor (even a seafaring
°fie) in exchange for an aerodrome?
Alec Templeton, the blind Welsh pianist
touring Australia under Tait auspices,
bves in a world of sound. He had two
unusual opportunities for enlarging it in
Melbourne. Pianist Lindsay Biggins took
him out to Sherbrooke Forest (near which
the Conservatorium teacher has his home)
to listen to the song of the lyre-bird.
Templeton could pick up the melody in a
moment and weave it into his next im-
provisation. The other evening he heard
the music of the bells of Llandaff
Cathedral in his native Wales while sitting
in his hotel bedroom in Melbourne.
Margaret Humphrey, his first teacher, had
laid the phone-receiver at the open
window in her home in Cardiff.
Dr. Burnett Ham, the 86-year-old
medico who received an ovation at Guy’s
Hospital, London, the other day when
lecturing medical students of his old
Alma Mater, was Commissioner of Public
Health in Queensland during the bubonic-
plague outbreak of 1900. After he had
served with the Queensland Government
for eight years he became permanent head
of the Victorian Health Department. Dr.
Hedley Ham, Melbourne’s oldest practis-
ing dentist, is a brother.
Memories of an election in which both
candidates were unstuck were revived by
the death in Perth, at 71, of Percy
Douglas Ferguson, who had been Minister
for Agriculture in Westralia between
1930-33. Ferguson was farming in the
Westralian Midlands till 1927, when he
won the Moore seat in the Assembly for
the Country party. His Ministerial rank
ended with the defeat of the Mitchell
Government at the election of 1933, but
he continued to represent Moore until
1939, when he was opposed by C. O.
Barker, an Independent who talked his
way to the top of the poll in a
series of sensational broadcasts. Then it
transpired that there were certain circum-
stances which made Barker ineligible to
hold the seat. The Premier of the day,
J. C. Willcock, summoned him to a
private interview. What went on there
has never been revealed, but Barker
(The Bulletin had a lot to say about
Mr. Barker at the same time) resigned
before the next session opened and
Ferguson did not seek re - election
While Minister, Ferguson sponsored the
Whole Milk Act, now operating in
amended form as the Milk Act. In War
II he controlled the distribution of motor-
vehicles in Westralia.
“Cauboy”: Reported from New
Zealand that 81-year-old Alfred Hill (B.
25/6/’52) has rediscovered over 200 long-
lost records of Maori songs, records he
himself made in lonely Urewera country
over half a century ago. Mention is
seldom made of Hill without “Waiata
Poi” being dragged in—but the author
of it isn’t necessarily complimented. On
one occasion he conducted a performance
of a long and serious' work of his own
composition at the old Auditorium, in
Melbourne, now the Metro Theatre.
There was the usual tentative applause
that follows a new work and then loud
demands for encore. After several walk-
ings-off and walkings-on to deafening
shouts of “Waiata Poi,” Hill stepped
angrily into the rostrum, turned to the
audience and shouted, “The people always
love the rubbish,” and launched the
orchestra into the Maori ditty he is best
known by.
“S.T.V.”: A schoolboy had to beat
a schoolmaster to start the career of Harry
Lawson. In 1899 the Victorian states-
man, then popular as a footballer and
cricketer, successfully contested the State
election for Castlemaine by defeating his
former schoolmaster, James Whiteside
McCay, who had been principal of
Castlemaine Grammar School prior to
handing over to his brother Adam, well-
known later as a journalist. A
number of Castlemaine supporters.
headed by my father, subscribed to a
testimonial fund for McCay and a sum
of three figures was handed over at a
smoke-social. The following year
brought Federation, with the first Federal
election, for Corio, contested between
McCay and Crouch ; McCay won. Thus
McCay supporters turned from dis-
appointment to delight, defeat for the
State Parliament having given him the
more attractive Federal seat. From that
year on both McCay and Lawson went
from one success to another. Both were
later knighted, both became principals in
successful legal firms, and both advanced
considerably in politics, each holding
numerous portfolios. McCay was
prominent on Gallipoli, eventually rising
to the rank of major-general. Sir Harry
Lawson’s passing has caused vacancies
on nine large company directorates and
in four chairmanships.
Chairman of Westralia’s recruiting-
committee, a nephew of former Federal
Speaker William Watt, E. S. Watt, of
Perth, has much of his uncle’s tenacious
energy. Witness of this is his 32 years
of unbroken service on the R.S.L. State
executive, of which he was one-time vice-
president. Educated to be a mining-
engineer, he went through the Kalgoorlie
School of Mines, but became a master-
printer after the Kaiser’s war, in which
he was a Camelero in Palestine, He used
his printing know-how to publish, for the
32 years, the “Listening Post,” organ of
the Westralian R.S.L. Now he’s calling
it a day as Diggers’ representative on the
State Repatriation Board, a job he has
ably held down for 26 years. Few men
have worked so hard for the Digger.
When C. V. Treloar, pictured here by
Lusby, takes his gavel in hand at meet-
ings of the Constitutional Association of
N. S. Wales and strikes the gong for
silence he is striking history. The gong
is made of metal from the first H.M.A.S.
Sydney, which sank the raider Emden
in 1914, and it is mounted on a stand the
wood for which came from the timbers
of the roof of Westminster Hall, damaged
by German bombs in 1941. All of which
is rather appropriate, as his association
aims at fostering the ideals of citizenship
and service, and at maintaining the
integrity of Parliamentary institutions.
The current objective is a national con-
vention, on as broad a basis of represen-
C. V. TRELOAR, by Lusby.
tation as possible, to consider an overhaul
of the Commonwealth Constitution.
When Treloar is not chairing meetings
of the association or otherwise looking
after its interests he can be found at the
offices of Swift and Co., manufacturing-
chemists ; the room has managing-director
on the door. On the side he is an un-
official and unpaid publicity-agent for
Cornwall, the land of his fathers.
The death of Sir George Pearce leaves
only two members of the first Federal
Parliament —Billy Hughes and King
O’Malley. The “King” lives in retire-
ment at Albert Park (Vic.); nobody
knows how old he is, but he is certainly
over 90. Until recently he could be
found once a week swimming at the City
Baths in Melbourne. Who’s Who, noting
that he is still picturesque in speech and
appearance, states that he is probably the
oldest biographical subject in the edition.
He migrated from the U.S. to Australia
in the ’nineties “for health reasons.”
SIR GEORGE PEARCE, by Scorfield.
Retiring to the lights of Melbourne
after 40 years’ experience in servicing
beams of a somewhat different calibre,
James Parker, called the “Lamplighter.”
He has built and serviced lights on lonely
rocks and promontories for the Common-
wealth Lighthouse Service from Darwin
to the Antarctic-end of Tasmania. In
the days when he started coast-marking
there was, for him, no radio —at times he
has spent months on a wave-washed rock
without mail or communications.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 67, Old Digger Reginald
Westmore, for 15 years till 1951 secretary of
the Sydney Chamber of Commerce. Born at'
Warwick, on the Queensland Downs, he had
been farming after War I till he shifted to
commercial fields in 1930.
In Perth, at 58, Walter William Larkham, for
the past two years Deputy-Commissioner for
Repatriation in Westralia. A big man with a
great capacity for sympathy and human under-
standing, developed by his own disability-—he
lost a leg while serving with the 2nd Battalion,
Ist A.I.F.
In Melbourne, at 58, Commander James
Charles Robinson, who was secretary to five
successive Second Naval Members. Entering
the R.A.N. in 1912, he had War I service in
destroyer Warrego and cruisers Melbourne and
Encounter.
In Perth, at 58, David Lomas Davidson,
Town Planning Commissioner in Westralia since
1929. An Old Fortian, he came west with 10
years of town-planning experience behind him
and the prestige of having held the Vernon
Memorial Chair of Town Planning at Sydney
University. In Westralia his best job was the
survey and planning of the town-site of Walpole.
With the force which took German New Guinea
in the Kaiser’s war, he was with Army Intelli-
gence in Hitler’s.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 63, James H.
Duncan, of the shipping firm of H. L. Tapley,
in which he rose to g.-m., retiring last year.
Through his firm’s handling of business for the
Byrd Antarctic expeditions of 1928 and 1933 he
became a close friend of Admiral Byrd, who
named a range of mountains in Antarctica
after him. Duncan was a foundation member
of the Dunedin branch of the N.Z. Antarctic
Society.
In Perth, at 59, Digger Robert Dickson,
managing-director of a large motor-firm and
past-president of the Westralian Chamber of
Automotive Industries. Other executive posi-
tions took in the Perth Chamber of Commerce,
Perth Rotary and the W.A. Club. He landed
with the 12th Battalion at Anzac on April 25,
1915, and served afterwards with the sister
Battalion, the 52nd. In Hitler’s war he was in
khaki again, ending as a staff-major at Western
Command headquarters.
At 71, in Melbourne, Richard T. Noble, who
founded the engineering firm of R. T, Noble
and Sons and pioneered the installation of
machinery at Mt. Lyell and Broken Hill.


n
f i/ ,
m
M
-k i *
m
C<
i : * *
It's that
Warn face
atfain...
An Ingram face is irresis-
tible! An Ingram face is
smooth . . . smooth be-
cause the razor glides
like a skater’s smooth
flight over the ice when
you use that cool comfortable cream.
Always have a jar of Ingram Shaving Cream
handy. Buy one from your Chemist tomorrow.
A Product of Bristol-Myers
1.5.29
■
SHAVING CREAM
: u tr
mil
''/vc a>u»
SHAVING
CREAM
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
s?-»
Established 1808 in Reign of
Oeofge 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
JV.iS.ir. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO RADIATORS
BRITISH
MADE
m
m
itjM
PZSz
3%
Be independent! With this TILLEY Portable Kero
Radiator you can be sure of cosy comfort when and where
YOU want it! Burns 12 hours on only li pints of Kero! Made
only by TILLEY—a sure guarantee of quality and efficiency!
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL R.I.
("THE AMBASSADOR")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Better Lambs.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Agric”; Queensland Agri-
culture Department considers
that lambs most suitable for
fattening on crops in Queensland
are likely to be produced by
crossing long-woolled rams,
such as Romney Marsh, Border-
Leicester and Corriedale, with
Merino ewes, and mating the
female offspring with Dorset
Horn or Southdown rams.
As most farming land on the
Darling Downs is too valuable
to use for growing first-class
sheep, the lamb-raiser in that
area is advised to buy a good line
of Border-Leicester x Merino,
Romney Marsh x Merino or
Corriedale x Merino ewes to
mate with Dorset Horn and/or
Southdown rams.
In slightly less favored areas
than the Downs it is probably
best, says the department, to
concentrate on first-crosses, such
as Border-Leicester x Merino,
Romney Marsh x Merino and
Corriedale x Merino. Ewe off-
spring meet a ready sale in lamb-
growing areas as fat-lamb
mothers, the wethers can be fat-
tened on whatever crops happen
to be available, and turned off as
heavyweight lambs or young
mntton suitable for the local
trade. There is also a fairly
good return from wool of such
crossbreds.
Areas suitable include those
as far west as Roma in the
south, parts of the Dawson
Valley, the Burnett and Callide
Valleys and the Austral High-
lands.
One from U.S.A.
“C.S.”: A three-purpose calf-
dehorner, lamb - docker and
soldering-iron that operates on
110 or 120 a.c.-d.c. current has
appeared in U.S.A. The manu-
facturer (L. F. McKee,
Michigan) says that the electrical
method causes less pain to the
animals than other methods.
Because no open sores are
created the McKee unit does not
expose the calves or lambs to
disease or infection. There is no
shocking pain to the animal, and
the operations can be accom-
plished indoors or outdoors.
Separation or confinement of the
animals is not necessary.
A special aluminium shield
serves to radiate and direct heat
to the tip. The shield also serves
as positive protection against
accidental burning of operator
or animal.
The appliance requires less
than three minutes to dehorn any
calf from five days to five months
of age. A standard dehorning-tip
is supplied for small calves and
a larger tip for large or older
calves.
When docking lambs, one man
can hold the lamb with its tail
on a block, and at the same time
handle the unit. A firm pressure
downward of the special
docking-tip on the lamb’s tail
and the tail is severed in three
seconds.
The aluminium shield is
designed to control temperature
at the high degree required for
docking or dehorning, but is
easily removed to convert the
unit to a soldering-iron.
The Channel Country.
“Outback”: Speaking of the
Channel country, W. A.
Beattie, C.5.1.R.0., who con-
ducted a survey of the beef-
cattle industry in Northern Aus-
tralia, says that before the
number of cattle which could be
fattened there could be estimated
it would have to be known what
effect heavy stocking would
have on the vegetation and on
the country itself. Would it
suffer the fate of some properties
on the Birdsville-Marree track,
now covered with sand?
The number of cattle which
could be fattened there in good
seasons had been the subject of
much speculation, but it was of
purely academic interest, as the
availability of suitable store-
cattle, taking into account the
demands and natural flow into
other parts of Queensland, and
even to N.S.W., did not appear
to exceed 75,000-head annually.
To this, about 25,000 locally-
bred cattle might be added, giv-
ing a total turn-off in good
seasons of about 100,000-head.
This total, however, included
cattle field over either on the
breeding properties or local pro-
perties in bad seasons when cattle
could move neither in nor out.
There had been a tendency to
overstress the flooding of that
natural irrigation - system by
heavy rains in, the watersheds,
or rather to understress the value
of rains, which, although they
might not cause floods, could
produce a wealth of fodder in
certain seasons. The whole set-
“ Doesn't taste so good? Maybe the rabbit had
myxomatosis .”
up was complex, and the greatest
danger in discussing it was over-
simplification.
Hand-feeding Cattle.
“Rooster”: In this Gippsland
(Vic.) district the winter months
are nearly always severe, and
pasture-growth is limited and of
low food-value. It becomes
necessary then to hand-feed, and
for that to succeed it is necessary
to know the weight of individual
beasts and thebutterfat content
of milking-cows’ yield. Daily
production of each cow gives a
good guide to individual rations.
An average dairy cow weigh-
ing about 10001 b. liveweight
requires daily 151 b. to 201 b. of
dry matter, 0.61 b. of protein
equivalent and 61b. of starch
equivalent, increasing the
amounts of protein and starcr.
progressively with every gallon
of milk yielded. As a standard
it may be assumed that a milker
yielding three gallons of milk
per day requires 271 b. to 281 b.
of dry matter, 2.41 b. of protein
and 13.51 b. of starch equivalent.
The difficulty is to work these
requirements out to suit the
amount of fodder on hand.
Green-silage, clover-hay, grass-
hay, lucerne-hay, oaten-chaft.
maize-silage, lucerne-chaff and
crushed-oats combine roughage,
protein and starch. If hay or
ensilage is uneconomical, the
ration can be reduced and sup-
plemented with root crops such
as mangolds or swedes.
On the relative food-values of
various fodders it is known that
401 b. of good lucerne-chaff per
cow per day will keep an average
cow in full production during
winter months. Another
economical ration is 251 b. of
oaten-chaff, 51b. of linseed-cake
and 41b. of pollard. Mangolds
and swedes are relatively low in
dry matter and starch, and must
be bolstered with chaff or hay.
A typical balanced ration (daily)
with mangolds as a basis is:
601 b. of mangolds, 201 b. of
lucerne-hay, 51b. of bran; or,
using swedes, 401 b. of swedes,
151 b. of hay, 51b. of bran, 91b.
of crushed oats.
As a general rule it can be
assumed that two-thirds of the
rations given to an average
milker in full production will
suffice for a dry in-calf cow.
Tobacco-growing.
“Nikko”: Tobacco of the
highest quality for cigarettes
must be grown on land of rather
low natural fertility, on which
the growth can be controlled
rather exactly by the addition
of plant-food in the form of
fertiliser. Growth must be kept
going evenly, and if rainfall is
insufficient there must be irriga-
tion. A relatively dry autumn
is necessary.
It is not very easy to find
country with this triple combina-
tion outside Queensland. The
southern States have a winter-,
rather than a summer-, rainfall,
and irrigation is necessary for a
summer - growing crop like
tobacco. But irrigated areas in
the south have mostly heavy,
rather fertile soils, not the
sandy soils of low fertility
needed for tobacco. And in the
winter-rainfall belt autumn rains
are against good curing.
Summer rainfall is inadequate
in north-west N.S.W., and the
flow of the rivers there is un-
reliable. There 'are no large
irrigation projects in this region.
With a far lower summer
evaporation, the northern N.S.W.
Tablelands have extensive areas
of poor granite country. The
fairly good summer rainfall
would suffice for tobacco-
growing in many seasons, and
the small amount of sup-
plemental irrigation required in
other seasons may be obtained
from summer-running creeks.
The C.5.1.R.0. tried to show
that the climate of these table-
lands would be unsuitable for
tobacco. But N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture believed that
this region would grow good
tobacco, and succeeded in
demonstrating the fact. During
the present season, a grower at
Tenterfield netted more than
£250 per acre from the crop.
Root Crops.
“Daucus”: Since Australians
mostly use salad vegetables in
summer and need few root
vegetables, the proper time for
sowing carrots and parsnips is
about mid-summer, not winter,


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
THE
HYOEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
VTP
NO
water supply necessary
YOU can instal it!
, si, V ple instruction card supplied
t . es it possible for any handyman
® mstal a Hygeia. The treated sterile
werage is absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
_ Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
msXKUUjI'OKS:
N-b.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
nTT ( ?- S,W ->> 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Vin'r n “’ Queen St., Brisbane.
1 “/0RIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
i/jc.). Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
UTII AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
yenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
Rundle St., Adelaide.
"“STERN AUSTRALIA; R. P. Mc-
inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
at., Perth.
TASMANIA Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Sr\rn Unceston Hobart.
British and Eastern
trading Co., Mercantile Bank Oham-
bers . Raffles Place.
NEW HOMES
AND RENOVATIONS
EXTENSIONS ALTERATIONS
PAINTING AND DECORATION
MODERNISATION OF HOMES
IMMEDIATE SERVICE
COUNTRY WORK A SPECIALTY
W. E. HANCOCK, Master Builder,
284 Whitehorse Rd., Balwyn, Vic-
toria. WF 4551. After hrs. XB 6524
VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870. After Hours, BJ 1957.
MT37I-4*
w
Now! Out of this NEW MODERN WORKS
COME AUSTRALIAN-MANUFACTURED
International
INTERNATIONAL
Trucks
serve the needs of Commerce , Agriculture and Industry
%
8-
Mot
..
sjS**-
Whether for
the haulage
of pr i m ary
products from
country areas or of manufactured
goods and materials from factory
to user, for transhipment by rail, sea or air
the motor truck is initially and finally the vital
link between all the transport services. Inter-
national Harvester is proud therefore, to be
able to now offer Australian-built motor trucks
to users throughout Australia in quantities
which will meet their demands
DANDENONG WORKS IS NOW
MANUFACTURING FOUR MODELS
OF INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
FOR AUSTRALIAN
ROAD TRANSPORT NEEDS.
Australian -built Internationals
range from the AL-110 utility to
the AL-162 medium-heavy-duty
model. Full information regard-
ing any of the Australian-built
models is obtainable at your
International Harvester district sales office
and metropolitan distributor in capital cities,
or from your local dealer.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
> (incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria
Model AL-110 utility, 115 in.
wheelbase; gross vehicle weight,
5,275 lbs.
Model AL-130 light commercial
truck; 134 in. wheelbase; G.V.W.,
8,000 lbs.
Model AL-160, produced in both
154 in. and 172 in. wheelbase;
G.V.W., 16,000 lbs.
KE3C
Model AL-162 medium-heavy-duty
International truck; G.V.W.,
18,500 lbs.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
Builder of Essential Equipment for Essential Work.
H
©
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial Power
as so many advise. With such
sowing, some of the roots are
large enough to start pulling by
mid-autumn, when sufficient nip
is coming into the air to make
hot soups and starchy vegetables
desirable. The rest are just left
where they are in the garden to
grow on slowly and be drawn
upon as desired.
This is the best possible storage
that can be given, as the roots
don’t rot while they are still
growing. In fact, their quality
is further improved in such
storage.
In this way carrots and
parsnips may be had from mid-
autumn to the end of winter.
With the advent of spring, they
start to throw their growth into
seed-stalks, the roots losing their
tenderness, and becoming tough
and stringy. In any case, they
should all be pulled by then, for
the garden-space is required for
other vegetables.
It is, of course, more difficult
to bring young seedlings of
carrots and parsnips through
successfully in mid-summer, but
the necessary care and patience
are rewarded.
Dingoes.
“Bill C.”: Doggers using guns,
traps and poison appeared to
have the dingo-pest well under
control in Queensland, prior to
World War 11, but the warrigals
bred up alarmingly during that
war, when most of the doggers
were after bigger game or bigger
money (in munitions), and just
after it, when big money was
going for easier work. What’s
more, ammunition and poison
became dear and of doubtful
quality. Landmen have a lot to
say about wanting “incentives”
to increase land production. If
they practise this by paying good
prices for dingo-scalps the
doggers will get busy again.
Rot in Tomatoes.
“W. Court”: “Blossom-end
rot of tomatoes” is certainly
encouraged by excessive soil
moisture. Tomatoes should
always be planted in well-drained
ground. Heavy dressings of
nitrogenous manures, such as
horse- or fowl-manure, may help
cause the rot. They hold the
moisture, and, though good in a
drought, may be very harmful
in a wet season.
Horse-manure, in my experi-
ence here in N. Queensland, is
bad in seed-beds during wet
periods ; damping-off will appear
in beds containing it, whereas
it will not show up in
unmanured beds near by. It is
more than possible that damp
farm manure harbors the fungi
that cause damping-off and
other plant rots.
Buying Cane Farms.
“8.J.L.”: “W.C.Q.” (B.
21/5/’52) missed several
important points, Sugarmills
keep detailed production-records
of all farms, and these are
usually made available for
inspection by genuine buyers.
These records will give a fair
idea of the farm’s potentiality.
Mills also keep records of all
yearly plantings. Fertiliser pur-
chases can often be checked with
agent’s books.
“W.C.Q.” is wrong about
genuine sellers not dwelling
upon faults or virtues of
their farms. The chap who sold
me my farm had been on the
place 38 years. He began his
song of praise the moment I
stepped from the agent’s car.
That was five years ago, and he
hasn’t stopped yet.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C.”; Killed hydrochloric
acid or zinc chloride, for use as
a soldering flux, should be pre-
pared a day or two before it is
required. A little more zinc
than the acid can dissolve should
be added, or the metal may be
tarnished when the flux is used.
Put the zinc chloride in a glass
or earthenware vessel to allow
the lead (from the flux) to settle
to the bottom. Straining it is a
good idea.
“Deejay”: Yankee farmers
claim that half a teaspoon of
aureomycin in the milk (or pre-
pared feeds) fed to calves from
three days to three months cuts
mortality to zero, eliminates
scours and has the calves eating
grass earlier, with, subsequent
improved growth,
“D.J.H.”: Never isolate stud
boars. They are much healthier
and virile if constantly kept in
the company of other pigs. In-
pig sows are ideal company.
“Silento”: If concrete floors
of bails and other farm-buildings
become slippery, paint or spray
them with a mixture of water
and 25 per cent, hydrochloric
acid.
“Spes”: The value of allowing
cultivation-ground to revert to
pasture as a soil-improver and
fertiliser is not realised. From
12,0001 b. to 20,0001 b. of under-
ground plant material is con-
tained per acre of good grass
sward. In dryweight this is
approximately equal to 25 to 30
tons of organic manure.
“Wilco”: To prevent a skin
from forming on top of paint in
a tin knock the lid on tightly
and turn the tin upside-down
until required. Cleaned paint-
brushes should 'be hung up so
that their points do not touch
anything.
“Sundowner”: If cows are fed
well during winter they will pro-
duce more butterfat in the
following lactation period. If
autumn pasture is used let cows
graze it for an hour each day
and feed them, in addition, 201 b.
of silage and 41b. to 61b. of hay.
Where this pasture isn’t avail-
able give as much hay as they
will eat, plus 201 b. of silage.
“Farmer Bill”: When using a
drenching-gun, slip a piece of
rubber tubing over the nozzle so
that it projects slightly over the
point; this prevents injury to the
membranes of the sheep’s mouth.
Sheep should stand firmly on all
fours and the nose be held about
level with the eyes. Holding the
head in position with one hand,
place the four fingers under the
jaw and the thumb over the
nose. Don’t grip the jaws tightly.
Pass the gun through the side of
the animal’s mouth till it goes
over the tongue and between the
back teeth. Then inject the dose
slowly. If the animal begins to
cough, lower its head quickly.
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
The weather is still reproducing the conditions of 1916
under the Bruckner cycle, and this should mean another
rain-spell early in July. After this the cycle shows more
cold and wet spells, and soon the deepest winter of the year.
Then it should be somewhat milder till about the middle of
July, and soon after may come another general rain. In the
southern States and in south-west West Australia there will
probably be some heavy rains, also in far south-western
Queensland and north therefrom as far as about Boulia.


ŵ
Count the hours; to the
finest holiday under, the sun
At Hayraan Island winter is just a six letter word ... an
umbrella would draw a crowd. All day long the tropics sing
their siren song, inviting you to swim [ . . cruise . . . aquaplane
. . . or just potter about. Nearby technicolour islands call to
the beachcomber in you. People come from half way round the
world to marvel at the maritime miracle of the Barrier Reef
. . . swift flying boats can whisk ybu there in a few short
hours. Book NOW for the sunniest winter holiday of your life.
Inclusive tariff of four guineas a day
covers accommodation . . . epicurean
menus . . . morning and afternoon teasj
, . . cabarets and motion pictures.
ẁ
S> • ; ?f ...
m
mm.
■: -
" - ' v
' J-
-1
ill ■! v -
Sww
j<k& -
mm
mm
n ®s
mm
.-.
<««»»»'
:
mSam
129 Phillip
For reservations : ANSETT TRAVEL
St., Sydney; 8W2921. 360 Collins St., Me!b.; MU
SERVICE
6921. And Q'lond Tourist Bureaux
AT9
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“ ‘The slickest “con. men” in the
world.’ That is the rating given Aus-
tralian confidence-tricksters by police
the world over.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
You certainly have to hand it
to them.
4* 4* 4*
“Britain’s new zebra crossings
played a big part in the sharp fall of
fatal pedestrian accidents.”
The warning is there in black
and white.
“The N.S.W. Chief Secretary will
visit Lord Howe Island to investigate
land tenures.”
Wait till caucus hears about
someone getting a title out of jt!
•b *K
“In many ways the law comes
down harder on men than on women.”
—Legal article.
A fact that promising young
fellows should remember.
•£■ -I- 4 1
“Wanted, few goldfish for boy.
Also large avery and canaries. Also
large avairy and cannaries. Avairy
must be good.”— Suburban paper.
He wants a spell at new
hobbies.
*
“Australian women are dogged by
domesticity.”— Visiting feminist.
But many never let it catch
them.
4*
“If your feet are on your mind,
despite care and correct shoes, seek
the help of your doctor.”
— Women’s magazine.
He will soon size up the
trouble.
Passport to Romance.
“More and more women are going
to the movies twice and three times
a week to find a screen hero to sup-
plant their husbands.”
—Psychologist B. A. Long field.
Though girls who wish to wed
are never short
Of shrewd advice from all the
flapper Press
On how to get their man, there is
no sort
Of test to pick the chaps who,
under stress,
Will bravely bear responsibilities
Incumbent on the married
state, and still
Retain undimmed their pristine
power to please,
And kindle fires of sweet
romance at will.
Small wonder, then, if woman
lays aside
The loyalty she felt when first a
bride
And centres her affection on a
fiction,
A man of smooth approach and
flawless diction ;
But why to film-stars this
romantic leaning ?
The reason’s plain : they get a
thorough screening !
D.H.E.
Commodity Trouble.
“The London ‘Observer’ has dis-
closed that among the latest imports
banned by Afghanistan in an effort to
balance its foreign trade are walking-
sticks (iron) and celluloid earrings.”
In an exclusive interview with
a Bulletin representative,
Afghanistan’s Minister for Trade
and Customs, Juffaglush Yow,
explained why these two items
had enjoyed so wide a popu-
larity among Afghans.
The iron walking-stick, he
said, is especially favored among
the tribesmen in the north
because the use of them on bitter
winter days has a distinct
advantage. The sticks freeze,
and on being grabbed hold of
they can’t be let go. This means
that the losing of them through
their being carelessly left lying
about is a rare occurrence.
Wooden walking-sticks, such
as those generally used in
England, were once used in
Afghanistan, but Afghans
developed a fear that constant
poking of them into the snow
might result in their becoming
borer-ridden, and that the borers
might in turn attack those who
carried the sticks. Also, there
was the ever-present possibility
that such walking-sticks might
sprout. This would have neces-
sitated constant pruning, and as
Afghans could never remember
whether you pruned just above
or below an eye this, would
cause endless and strenuous
mental effort which could per-
haps lead to a high incidence of
“ It's a new ‘Dunlop 65'!”
nervous disorders. Another
thing, aphis would get on the
young walking-stick shoots, and
keeping them in check would
inevitably mean the extensive
use of such insecticides as Black
Leaf 40, thus depriving the popu-
lation of supplies of its most
cherished beverage. .
The banning of iron walking-
sticks, said Mr. Yow, would have
a serious effect on one of the
country’s leading industries,
This was the bending of the
sticks, which came from Eng-
land perfectly straight, into the
twisted sort which had been
popularised in the latter years of
the last century following the
appointment of a Scot named
McGowf in the dual capacity of
Court Golf Adviser and Master
of the Palace Donkey Engine.
Afghanistan had always
insisted that imported iron
walking-sticks be pre-shrunk.
Nothing annoyed an Afghan
more than to find that his iron
walking-stick had shrunk so much
that he could no longer wear
it comfortably. Another thing
that his countrymen had always
insisted on was that iron walking-
sticks should not be sufficiently
long to enable them to reach
the ground, otherwise they would
get worn out far too quickly.
A further reason for the use
of iron-type walking-sticks was
the fondness of Afghans for the
practice of whittling. The unsuit-
ability of wooden sticks for
whittling purposes had resulted
in the demand for the iron
article. It was always a matter
of deep regret, said Mr, Yow,
that no provision was made in
the Olympic Games for an iron
walking-stick-whittling contest,
Had there been one, he felt sure
that Afghanistan could field a
team to beat any other.
It was anticipated, went on
Mr. Yow, that the virtual disap-
pearance of the iron walking-
stick from Afghanistan would
soon have a most serious effect
on the country’s already badly-
strained transport system.
Already his Government had set
up a Cabinet sub-committee
which had appointed a transport
sub - committee which had
appointed a ways and means
sub-committee to report on the
possibility of evolving an alterna-
tive method of propulsion-
persuasion for camels.
The acute shortage of iron
walking-sticks had also led to
the appearance of a huge black-
market in them. Cases had-come
to his notice of iron walking-
sticks having - been bought by
people who had by virtue of
their profession or calling
obtained priority permits for the
purchase of them, and who had,
after running them in, sold them
at fantastic profits on the used-
stick market. His Government
was doing its utmost to put a
stop to this traffic. The police
were also working ceaselessly
on the task, but they were find-
ing it impossible to get con-
victions.
The Minister went on to say
that celluloid earrings were worn
by the men of Afghanistan, just
as celluloid collars were worn
by the women. Both products
were of the self-igniting type.
Only one earring was worn-in
the ear opposite-to the side on
'which the iron walking-stick was
carried. This was so as to effect
a balance in weight, thus keep-
ing his countrymen on an even
keel when walking on level
ground. When walking along
the sides of ravines or around
mountains, however, both ear-
ring and walking-stick were
worn on the side away from the
ravine or the mountain, thus
making a safer footing possible.
Mr. Yow said that the import-
restriction position would be
kept under constant review. If
the fiscal position were to show
further signs of deterioration he
might find it necessary to con-
sider seriously the banning of
more foreign-made goods which
had hitherto enjoyed a ready sale
in Afghanistan. These included
serrated - leather razor - blades,
wickless candles, aluminium
matches, compressed-ink carving-
knives, paperbark dynamo
rotors, barbed-wire bootlaces,
coir pullovers, liquid bathroom
tiles, celluloid fire - screens,
asbestos axe-heads and stainless-
steel underpants.
Bo.
Stalemate.
“ ‘Obstinate men don’t hold
opinions; opinions hold them,’ says
a Ryde (N.S.W.) clergyman.”
They’ll starkly tell you black is
white
And flout adverse persuasion.
They have no doubts; they’re
always right
No matter the occasion.
Through thick and thin ’gainst
commonsense
An argument they’ll carry
With irritating confidence.
And then, of course, they
marry I
P.O.M.C.
NEW BROKEN HILL
CONSOLIDATED LTD.
Excellent Progress with Development Programme
Review by Mr. JOHN R. GOVETT
The 16th Annual General Pvleeting of the above-named
Company was held on 25th June, 1952, at 37 Dover
Street, London, W.l, Mr. John B. Govett, the chairman,
presiding.
The following are extracts from his
circulated statement:—
The net profit for the year 1951,
after providing for taxation', amounted
to £619,024, compared with £450,541
for the previous year. An interim
dividend of Is. per share was declared
in November last, and the board now
recommend that a final dividend ot
1/6 per share be paid, making a total
distribution for the year of 2/6 per
share, compared with 1/6 for 1950.
Capital expenditure during the year
on development of the mine, the
erection ot buildings and the installa-
,£w° f riQ b ifef
liCcivy, and amounted to £1,219,161.
Excellent progress has been made in
1951 with our programme of develop-
ment, particularly in regard to com-
and io nlflnts tl in
°.
shortages of certain esSndal sunnlies
c jrEnrrt
! Ul ffW| So n C M S ,!ln2 a 1 o
iifnnwi 601 n °” ® n r 11 rvn
oinprnHv w skJfun °Tmn
generally has shown improvement.
average. tonnage auned
ens npr !na!ro
in 1951 t 0 0113 Pef wol^ UIS ay
’
OPERATIONS
Ore production from the company’s
leases in 1951 totalled 212,178 tons,
compared With 165,668 tons in 1950.
The productions of both lead lode
ore and zinc lode ore show substantial
increases on the figures for 1950. The
total tonnage milled in 1951 was
211,608 tons, as against 209,017 tons
in 1950. In comparing the year’s
results with those of the previous year,
it must be remembered that m 1950
we purchased 43,332 tons of ore
under the terms of -the Sale of Ore
Agreement with the Zirtc Corporation,
In 1951 file whole of the tonnage
milled came from the company’s,
leases. Although increasing use-was
made of the new haulage shaft, the
output from the mine was again
hoisted through the main shaft of the
Zinc Corporation and treated in fhe
mill of that company. It is expected
that the haulage of ore through the
haulage shalt will commence before
the end of this year, and that part of
the current year’s output will be
treated in the company’s own mill.
The company’s ore reserves total
2,000,000 tons, assaying 9.7 per cent,
lead, 2.4 oz. silver, 11.2 per cent,
zinc. These ore reserves are fully
outlined and developed ready fo.
sloping, or are in process of being
sloped. Blocks of ore partially de
veloped or only outlined by diamonc
drilling are excluded. The mos
important development has been th
further opening up of the lead lod.
ore-bodies at the horizon of No. T-
level (2760 ft.), with highly satisfactory
results.
EMPLOYEES AND INDUSTRIAL
RELATIONS
Although the situation is now more
satisfactory than it was a year ago,
the problem of recruiting manpower
in sufficient numbers to keep pace
with the increasing demands of the
development programme still continues
to cause some anxiety. The relations
between the Broken Hill mining com-
panies and the unions have continued
on a satisfactory basis; the current
Industrial Agreement, due for renewal
this year, has continued to work well.
The advantage that has been taken of,
and the demand that continues for,
the facilities provided by the com-
pany in association with the Zinc
Corporation for home ownership is
most encouraging. Competing de-
mands of coal and other traffic, and
shortages of fuel, rolling stock and
train crews, have continued to cause
the rail services provided by the South
Australian Railways to fall short of
the requirements of the Broken Hih
field.
CURRENT PRODUCTION
TARGET
Our target for production this year
is 256,000 tons of ore milled and,
from the experience of the year’s
working to date, there seems every
reason to hope that this figure will be
reached, if not exceeded. Unless
fufther delays in delivery of materials
on of equipment from overseas slow
down our present rate of progress,
this year should see the company’s
mine operating as an independent
producer to a far greater degree than
hitherto,, although we shall continue
to 'have the great benefit of the sur-
face openings and underground con-
nections provided by the adjacent
workings of the Zinc Corporation’s
mine.
The report was adopted.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Solidarity
One of the grim humors of present-day
strikes against the Arbitration Court is
the way in which employers scab on each
other. “Out” for 14 weeks, with the grim
hope of being able to bring to a stop the
railways and most of the industry of
W.A., boilermakers, fitters and turners
have boasted that they don’t care how
long their strike lasts, so many of them
having been snapped up by other
employers. Muc;h the same thing was
boasted during the Victorian tramways
and railways strikes, employers gladly
availing themselves of the services of the
strikers.
Among the working-class no man
nowadays dares to scab —the Trades Hall
maintains rigid discipline. But Chambers
of Commerce and manufacturers are
weak as water in such respects. Nothing
happens to the employer who scabs on
his fellow-employers by hiring men who
are out on strike. Thus the average
unionist is ready to strike at the drop
of a hat, knowing that he will easily pick
up a job that will last him until “victory”
is won."
What the employers require is discipline
within their ranks—say, all employers
being formed into a union and pressure
being used if necessary. Only thus will
the employers be in a position to counter
the current labor idea of “Heads I win,
tails you lose”—of obliging employers to
accept Arbitration Court decisions, while
reserving the right Of the worker to strike
when the verdict doesn’t exactly suit him.
—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Where the Money's Gone
If anyone ever doubted that Australia
lives on the sheep’s back, the last year
should have convinced him. Where else
but from the inflated wool-cheque did
all the cash for our 1951 spending-spree
stem? It fell first of all into the pocket
of the woolgrower, who promptly spent
lavishly. Everyone hopped in for his cut
prices rose, wages rose and the whole
conception of the value of a pound was
upset simply because it is not in human
nature to be cautious in the use of a
commodity in ample supply.
Any doubts about wool being the
villain of the piece are dispelled by the
fact that our current shortage of cash
has followed the tumble in wool prices ;
nothing else can share the blame because
no other product has experienced any
worth-while fall in value.
Last year the money from the sale of
wool poured in and set a false standard
of wealth in Australia; this year the
excess flow has dried up and we are left
stranded with a lot of expensive tastes
(such as high wages, swollen profits, short
hours and loafing on the job) and no
money to indulge them.
Where has the money gone? Un-
doubtedly we had it, and equally
undoubtedly we have the things we
bought with it —concrete things like
motor - cars, washing - machines and
refrigerators. What we have not got is,
firstly, the goods we would have grown
or manufactured for ourselves if we had
not taken a holiday from work ; secondly,
the money we sent abroad in payment for
the things we were too lazy to make for
ourselves or the luxuries we did not really
need.
There is injustice in the fact that the
wise man has been caught equally with
the unwise. He had the sense at the time
to invest his surplus money instead of
squandering it, but, because of our then-
inflated valuation of every marketable
thing, he had to pay, say, 655. for a share
on which today he could only realise 435.
—Hist (N.S.W.).
Psychiatry and Society
“Sydney Psychiatrist” (B. 16/4/’52)
seems to overemphasise the influence of
modern education and ignore the effect
of two world wars and the influence of
his own profession.
Two world wars within 25 years, each
followed by an Uneasy peace, must have
a tremendous influence upon the mental
health of the country. Many caught it
both ways. The “war babies” of the
1914-18 war passed through an
“Thank you so much—hope I can do the same for you one day."
adolescence oi economic upheaval, to be-
come participants in the 1939-45 war.
Who Can measure the effects of the
worries and fears of the parents as well
as the children through those 25 years?
The last two decades have been lived
in fear. With the fear came the conflicts
of mind, the between-war adolescent hav-
ing to face the rise of the “isms”—Com-
munism, Socialism and Fascism. The
two great causes of neurosis are fear and
worry. , •
An indirect result of the last war, and
an important one where women are con-
cerned, is the tremendous difficulty of
keeping house. Shortages, queues,
refusals, lack of power, high prices for
poor-quality goods have not only been
heartbreaking but mind-breaking, too, for
young married women.
Then there is psychiatry itself. There
was a time .where every pain in the
stomach meant an appendix operation,
and every sore throat meant tonsils out.
Today every unexplained ill means that
the patient has a neurosis.
The old-time family doctor treated
neurosis with a bottle of harmless
medicine, the patient was happy and
generally improved. Today he sends the
patient to a psychiatrist, who replaces the
bottle of colored water with phenobarb.
What is worse, the patient knows he is
getting phenobarb, or some such sedative,
and why he is getting it. We have become
a neurosis-conscious people rather than a
neurotic people. Instead of sedative drugs
and shock-treatments we need more of
the advice given by the doctor in Three
Men in a Boat. / .
11b. beefsteak with 1 pint bitter beer
every 6 hours. 1 ten-mile walk every
morning. 1 bed at 11 sharp every night.
And don’t stuff your head up with things
you don’t understand. * T _ .
—Rann (N.S.W.).
Let Private Enterprise Try
Building materials—bricks, timber, etc.
—are in supply again, but cash is short
and so is accommodation. The N.S.W.
Government is blaming Treasurer Fadden
for depriving the homeless of homes. Its
own organisation has given up trying to
build dwellings, and is having no luck m
selling to tenants those it has already
built
Credit restrictions are blamed for the
drying-up of money for housing. Over-
investment by the major lending institu-
tions—which, for housing purposes, never
included the Commonwealth Government
—is a much more likely cause.
It is a good time for the State Govern-
ment to invite private enterprise to
re-enter the field of rental-investment.
With the clamping-down of rental and
tenancy controls during the war, and the
continuation of such controls by the Stale
after the Commonwealth relinquished
them, private investors abandoned houses
and iats, Flats died more slowly than
houses, but the last 12 months have seen
the rental-flats give way to home-unit
investments. With the shortage of build-
ing materials, nobody worried much about
the withdrawal of the investor from this
market, though real-estate interests
frequently called attention to the harmful
effect it would have in the long run.
The State Government could get things
started by not applying the rental and
tenancy laws to new buildings or newly-
available accommodation.
Several years ago the Government
amended the Local Government Act to
enable owners of large homes to sub-
divide them into multiple self-contained
units. Lately it repealed this legislation
because it claimed that property-owners
had not taken advantage of it. Quite
true, but for very good reason.
To start with, owners of such property
could, under the Act, assure themselves
of control over it for only two years. And
with tenants in the frame of mind that
has been engendered in them since 1948,
wise people would not fall for that.
Further, decisions of the Fair Rents
Court showed owners they could expect
no monetary benefit out of any sub-
division of their homes.
Capital expenditure on conversion was
not recognised by the courts, and
anachronistic values were set on converted
properties, which resulted in the bulk of
the people who did undertake such work
losing their money. One case in North
Sydney: an owner spent several
thousands converting his home into
flats which he let at moderate rents.
A few weeks later the tenants went
in a body to the Fair Rents Court, which
assessed the rental value on the basis of
the value of the property in August, 1939
—before the conversion —and then split
that value up among the various tenants.
The owner received nothing for his capital
outlay. No wonder property-owners
wouldn’t be in it.
Give owners a fair return on current
values and costs, restore them the right
to say who shall occupy their property,
and the power to eject unsatisfactory
tenants at the expiration of seven days’
notice, and investors would pour millions
of pounds into rental accommodation.—
Jindivick (N.S.W)-
Loans
The list of failings of the Menzies Gov-
ernment (B. 4/6/’52) omitted one of the
most important items—the way Treasurer
Fadden cruelled the loan-market, so that
the usual investors in this field won’t put
another penny in.
Like thousands of others for many
years I have put money in when I had it
to spare. I had money in about half a
dozen or more four-per-cents and had
this reduced to 3i per cent. Immediately
afterwards for the next loan the interest
was raised to 3f per cent. That fixed me,
like it has done thousands of others.-
C. L. H. (N.S.W.),
Socialist Octopus
Anyone doubting the march of bureau-
cracy and Socialism in Australia should
examine the number of office buildings
in Sydney partially or wholly occupied
by the State or Commonwealth. Since
1939 the Commonwealth listings in the
telephone-book have more than doubled,
and the N. S. Wales Government is not
far behind.
The most disturbing feature of the
public service, Commonwealth and State,
is the number of employees earning
money out of all relation to their jobs.
Public-relations officers recruited from
daily papers are paid far in excess of
the journalists’ award, and a number of
C.5.1.R.0. appointments carry salaries
that are quite fantastic compared with
rates paid for similar jobs in private
business.
And in the Federal sphere there are
obviously unnecessary departments.
Departments handling housing, employ-
ment, immigration and education are
all duplicated in the State set-up. They
could be abandoned tomorrow without
serious hurt to anyone — Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 180
Across.
I—Classical1 —Classical heroine who is opposed
to the departed’. (8) ...
s—The nonsense German he finishes
in a golfing hazard. (6)
10 — Nous across the Channel. (2)
11 — Confectionery comment, quite
impolite, on “Life With Father.
(7)
12— Dance can be fatal to anybody
on the brink of a precipice, but
is not enough for a ballet. (7)
14— Canonised fish sharpener. (5)
15— Opera turned in a couple of times
by a conductor. (9)
17— Morning and a Coward character.
(6)
18— Label beside a whip creature with
stripes. (5, 3) . .
21—Are Chopin’s countrymen allowed
these features of folk dancing?
(8)
23—About yore meal. (6)
27 —Somewhat slow Etruscan title on
the Jewish quarter. (9)
30— The corporation of an Arts
graduate in a Black Sea port? (5)
31— To touch upon the gloomy dean
going to the devil. (7)
33 Wilde actress in U.S. university
measure goes against the grain,
(7)
34 The usual answer in Australian
referenda. (2)
35 Lizard suggests Karenin’s remarks
to his erring wife. (6)
36—Emily is dictatorial, but produces
a raised pattern. (8)
Down.
1 — The mistress of Pericles would
make a snake continent. (7)
2 It’s a long way to this person
who is popular with waiters, and
disorderly Ray. (9)
3 Develop was in the van with King
George joining a night-bird, and
Edward sounded menacing like a
dog. , , , ~,
4 Snareless musical ensembles, (6)
6 Why leave Christmas to mother
for the body of Moslem law-
givers. (5)
7 Wool producer. (3)
8— Fabric isn’t an economical golf-
ball. (7)
9 Lost bar in an English institution
for correction. (7)
13—N.Z. bird. (3)
16—Yea contradicted one in New
York. (3) .
19— One of the curls of a fictional
detective is a clue for a female
singer. (9)
20 — Peevish fit leads to a row that is
even more trivial. (7)
21 — Millicent and his Majesty men-
tion the occupation of one whose
face was her fortune. (7)
22 Ingot of metal is a regular
snorter! (3)
24 —Tariff upset me over a township
on the southern highlands of
N.&.W. (7)
25 — Mexican delicacies, thanks to men
only. (7)
26 Subordinate to a lieutenant, but
bearing stripes. (3-3)
28 — Rent epitaph. (3)
29 Greeting to a girl province m
China. (5)
32 —A cow’s complaint number for
some complaining city phone-
subscribers. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 179


- 4 I
MACHINE TOOLS
«g*>-
>-y' ,ir ■*-■* ''
»* ..-, ■
«y-
-• • ••
>»•'—
•*'
■H9 ’ *
•a-'WS.t: •
»*-
> *Jk ‘ w*
M'ti
x- *
«h ;
“MARS” 14-INCH ALL GEARED HEAD LATHE
This Heavy Duty general purpose Lathe is a member of Mars ‘‘New Series”
group of all geared head lathes. The weight is over 11 tons and the length' of
bed is 20 feet between centres. It has a hollow main spindle. Swing
over bed is 29 inches and swing through gap is 54 inches.
0
THE HIGHEST STANDARD
of accuracy is used in their construction—
All machines are built to Schlesinger limits.
ẅ
THE FINEST QUALITY
of materials for Machine Tool construction
is used —All machines are built entirely of
MEEHANITE High Duty Alloy iron Cast-
ings. ■\\ c.'. ■. ' ■ ; a;
9
THE GREATEST RANGE
of operational work is incorporated—Long,
deep gaps, Large hollow spindles, Multiple
speeds.
i
HEAVIEST CONSTRUCTION
compatiblep with the machines is Used-
Long, wide, deep beds.
s
THE WIDI
ww
p™ *-
m
w _i
m
u -
mm
><
U
i
“MARS” New Series 10iin./llin. ALL GEARED
HEAD LATHE.
Long angle vee-ways—Wide speed range—Wide gap
Large hollow spindle—Fitted remote control —Guaran-
teed accuracy.
EARLY DELIVERY
“MARS” UNIVERSAL
MILLER
Rapid power traverse, all move-
ments —18 speeds, 16 feeds —
Built-in electrics.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
IJ r . r ..... l t II
PWSk * v.
»
p ■'■■■>
im
Mi
I
■ ■
{i%:
MARS'” TRIPLE DRUM SANDER
High speed production— Dial load indicators to each
drum—Continuous belt feed.
EARLY DELIVERY
»
a>
Wi
i
(9
mm
©
m
o
fflS
THE “MARS” GEAR DIVISION provides prompt service. Gears completely manufactured or your own blanks generated by
Sunderland, Fellows, Hobbing or Gleason Bevel processes, . _ , , •
MEEHANITE (Regd. Trade Mark) CASTINGS. All castings are produced m the Foundry under supervision of high y
trained metallurgical and laboratory staffs. WE MANUFACTURE ALL GRADES OF MEEHANITE IRONS. ,
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS: W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.:W H. & C °-> '? 4
VIC.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. QLD. and N.S.W : Mars Machine Tool Co.
Ltd. TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 145 Collins Street, Hobart. INDIA (Bombay Province) :R. S. Mehta & Co., Ah Chambers, F .
Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila. 1 '
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFO.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
JL & O S.'Advert.
