

1§
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or
business associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings,
anniversaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange immediate
deliveries of their products to any address in the United
Kingdom. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY- Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE; Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
LAWSON AND THE LABOR MOVEMENT
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75-No. 3789
Wednesday, September 24, 1952
Ptice 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
NOW ALL IS PEACE ROUND LUDLOW’S BATTLED WALLS
THE ancient Shropshire town of Ludlow played a leading part in the history
of Welsh border warfare, and has for centuries been extolled in poetry
and prose. In its picturesque winding streets with richly timbered houses,
Ludlow still retains the aspect and atmosphere of a medieval town, dominated
by its imposing castle, which stands on a lofty headland at the north-west
extremity of the town. .
This great fortress was the strongest and most important of the long chain
of thirty-two castles which formed a formidable line of defence along the
Welsh border. As with most castles that have had a long and eventful history,
the architectural features of Ludlow are of great variety, ranging from
Norman to Tudor, but they are chiefly Norman, as substantial portions ot
the original castle, founded in 1086 by Roger de Lacy, still survive.
The most impressive remains are those of the Norman Keep, 110 feet
high, which is the oldest part of the castle. The magnificent State chambeis
include a suite of rooms in which Prince Arthur, Henry VIII s elder brother,
died in 1502 —a year after the King’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon During
her stay at Ludlow her favourite walk was along the battlements of this castle,
which provided extensive views across the fertile Shropshire border lands to
the dark Welsh hills beyond. It was in the Great Hall at Ludlow, where the
ceiling is 35 feet high, that Milton’s masque “Comus” was presented tor
the first time in 1634 before the lord-lieutenant of Wales.
In the stormy days of the Welsh risings Ludlow experienced more than its
share of war and bloodshed, but it was also the scene of a famous romance
described in “The Geste of Fulk Fitzwanne,” the only surviving medieval
narrative to be written around an English castle.
After its surrender during the Parliamentary wars in 1646, Ludlow Castle
was allowed to fall into decay; but even in its fallen glory it is still one ot
the most impressive and picturesque ruins in Britain.


sdf
IiHPI
0111023
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL—
To STOTT’S; Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.852) Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS;
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/6.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
NEVILLE CARDUS
His first cricket book for 15 years discusses not only the great
men of the game but the grounds on which they played
CRICKET ALL THE YEAR
COLLINS
AVAILABLE FROM
ALL BOOKSELLERS
PUBLISHERS
The Red Page
THE HENNING LETTERS
Now that the Rachel Henning letters
are produced under one cover they
present an amazingly compact piece of
period literature, almost in novel form.
They have a beginning, a middle and an
end, and the narrative makes an unbroken
story from its beginning in England till
all the characters have finally stabilised
themselves in Australia.
All the essentials of the novel are here:
precise character-presentation, humor,
action, and a clearly-visualised back-
ground against which the characters grow
into the narrative, developing distinctive
personalities as experience forces decision
of action on them. In this respect the
letters are unique, for there is no break
in their continuity, and we are not tan-
talised by reference to events for which
there is no explanation, as in letters which
are detached products of their time-factor.
The only letters comparable to them
are those written by Charlotte Godley
from New Zealand in the fifties of last
century, which give a continuous account
of her three years’ sojourn there,
during Godley’s administration of
the Canterbury Association settle-
ment. There is an analogy between
Rachel’s and Charlotte’s letters,
in that both ladies were products
of mid-Victorian gentility, living
within the precise limits of middle-
class culture and its social taboos,
so that both experienced the violent
contrast between a statically refined
existence and the crudities of
pioneer-life in the colonies. But
whereas the letters of Charlotte are
those of a transient, with a fixed
time-limit on her stay in New
Zealand, those of Rachel are an
almost day-by-day account of the
procedure of settling for life in a
new country. Four members of
the Henning family settled in Aus-
tralia —Biddulph and three of his
sisters, Rachel, Amy and Annie.
Biddulph may be defined as the
hero of Rachel’s novel, for it was
he who established financial security
for himself and his sisters. He is
a remarkable instance of the capa-
city and resolution with which young
Englishmen of those days, with no
previous experience of colonising,
mastered its problems and became
expert stock- and station-owners
in a very short time. Though
pronounced delicate in England,
he developed abounding health in
Australia, becoming a capable bush-
man, exploring new prospects,
driving his stock safely over track-
less country, building a homestead,
handling his men with assurance
and conducting his business with
shrewdness and foresight. On occasion
he could be as tough as primitive con-
ditions required, as instanced in his catch-
ing a thief who had been stealing from the
men’s huts and having him triced up to
a tree and lashed, to save the time and
expense of sending him for trial to Rock-
hampton.
We see Biddulph develop on the same
terms throughout, to end up as a man of
wealth and position. Amy and Annie
pursue the normal careers of attractive
«“« in , c °l° mes > marrying and
settling-down comfortably to rear families,
But it is in presenting herself to the
reader that Rachel succeeds in that diffi-
cult literary achievement of turning her-
self from a “flat” character into one in
the round. When she first appears in
the letters she is a mature woman, living
a placid existence in an English country
house, and, save for a slightly mordant
sense of humor, fixed in all the rituals,
ordinances and restrictions of middle-class
social caste, and likely to remain so to
the end of her days. But this apparently
satisfactory state of being is suddenly
disrupted by the departure of Biddulph
and Annie for Australia . . .
The Hennings were of that family
genus which finds a complete emotional,
social and intellectual felicity within the
family circle, and there is very little
doubt that the lack of Biddulph’s society
was the motive that uprooted Rachel
from her secure English setting and sent
her forth on the hazardous adventure
of emigrating to Australia. With her
went sister Amy .and cousin Tregenna
Biddulph.
She gives us a very good picture of
life on shipboard, and the passengers are
ruthlessly scrutinised for their behavior
and social status. Still definitely encased
in the “flat” shell of her own social status,
she arrives in Australia, and very
naturally does not find much to approve
of in colonial society, though Amy takes
readily to its parties, picnics and other
social doings.
Biddulph is still searching for a place
to settle. Though for the time being he
has taken a farm at Appin, it does not
appear to offer very good prospects, and
Rachel dislikes the bush life there
extremely. Amy marries a Mr. Sloman,
a banker, and goes to live with
him at Bathurst. Rachel vacillates
between, Appin, Sydney and a visit to
Bathurst, getting more restless and dis-
contented the while. England was still
very much with her when she took that
journey to Bathurst, in a rough carryall.
One of the 40 illustrations to “The Letters of Rachel Henning”
(now published in book form by THE BULLETIN).
over roads either axle-deep in mud or
blinding with dust, in company with an
old farmer and a young digger who was
“not quite a gentleman nor yet a common
man,” while two women who get in later
are ironically italicised as “ Ladies ,” one
being a shopkeeper and the other a
general-servant.
Rachel’s letters to sister Etta in England
are nostalgic with the charm of her past
life there, which in the end proves
irresistible, and after three years of a
distasteful existence in Australia she
takes the long voyage home again ...
And once there, of course, nostalgia
let her down badly, as it invariably does
when its subject tries to return on a
rhythm of life which has been irrevocably
broken. Another species of nostalgia has
got into Rachel’s blood, in spite of her
resistance to it. In Australia she has
sensed the awakening vitality which is
forced to create a new system of living,
rather than to exist inertly on one
already made by long tradition. And
Biddulph handsome, capable and
generous Biddulph—is in Australia. So
after an absence of five years Rachel,
an experienced voyager, takes her passage
to Australia again in the Great Britain.
Meanwhile Biddulph had migrated to
Queensland and had established a sheep-
station at Marlborough, which he sold
to take up a large area of ground in
the South Kennedy district, naming it
Exmoor, and there set about sheep-
breeding in a large way. And it was on
his setting-out on that venture that
Rachel joined him, after an interlude
between Sydney, the Shoalhaven and
Bathurst.
From that moment, it seemed, Rachel
shed the shell of her class-conscious
spinsterhood and emerged to discover
that life could be an exciting adventure,
once freed from all its petty little restric-
tions. She took to pioneering with
amazing gusto. The long journeys on
horseback, with the drays lumbering in
the rear packed with the bare necessities
of existence, the campfires at night with
damper and quartpot tea, the sleeping
under the stars with a saddle for pillow,
enchanted her. The thrill of opening-up
new prospects inspired her with a lyrical
love for the beauties of Australian land-
scape.
Most of all, there is the exhilarating
cult of the horse. She becomes a fine
rider, breaks her own horse to the side-
saddle, and exults in a scamper across
country in pursuit of kangaroos. With
the station half-built, she prefers sleeping
in a room without windows: and later,
when stores give out, cheerfully patches
her clothes and clouts her shoes.
Over all this there is Biddulph, mag-
nificently in control of everything; there
is Mr. Hedgeland, his manager, discreetly
flirtatious with Annie, who later marries
him; and there is young Mr. Taylor,
about whom Rachel is a trifle reticent
till he is a month overdue from over-
landing with the sheep, and an alarm that
he has been lost in the bush lets opt the
state of her feelings about him. In the
end she marries young Mr. Taylor, and
there is a hint in the letters that this was
not done without some opposition in the
family. If a letter on that score has been
suppressed it is a pity, for Rachel pre-
sented as resolutely rejecting any dicta-
tion from the family over her first, if
slightly belated, love-affair would have
made a fine little dramatic apex to her
narrative, and no novel is complete with-
out that. Anyway, the letters end with
her quite happily settled for life as
Rachel Taylor.
The letters themselves remain as an
invaluable period piece, and their charm
will increase with the years . . . which
forces on us the rather melancholy reflec-
tion that such letters, as the by-product
of an autobiographical urge to record
existence under new and strange condi-
tions, will never be written again. The
annihilation of space by speed of transit
and the telephone and radio has abolished
all mystery of distance on the earth, and
no one today would bother to write a
precise account of life in a once-remote
land for the enlightenment of a reader
dwelling at a distance which in Rachel's
day put an average time-space of eight
months between an exchange of letters.
To relieve curiosity and anxiety in the
home-dwelling relatives the writer had to
document all the simple {actualities of
daily life ; and out of such seeming trivia
the best novels are created, for they are
the common property of mankind and
strike a universal note of sympathy. To
my mind women write the most-enter-
taining letters, for they deal only with
the realities of the present moment and
the enlivening ingredient of gossip, which
is always more revealing than a psycho-
logical investigation of motives. The
letters pf Margaret Fasten tell us more
about life in medieval England than all
the literary gravedigging of historians,
and now that Australia is just another
section of a mechanised earth Rachel’s
letters from the lost era of its pioneering
days will in the future have the same
revealing quality of life.
The letters have been admirably edited,
and we are able to follow the fortunes
of each member of the Australian
Hennings after the letters cease in 1882.
They cover the space of some 30 years
of life in Australia, and from start to
finish there is hardly a dull line in them.
Rachel’s style is distinguished by
the clarity with which she visualises
people and events for us, and
visualisation is a major virtue in
the novel Or any other prose dealing
with life in action. On that score
I can pay Rachel a tribute on per-
sonal grounds, for I never had any
difficulty in picking subject-matter
from the letters to illustrate. And
long experience of trying to transfer
the word to its form-image con-
vinces me that its swift impact on
the mental retina is the supreme
test of good writing.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Plant-hunting
Those who are not flower-fanciers
may be surprised to know that all
the world s flowers have not yet
been found, and that some of the
best-known, of our garden-varieties
have been brought from wilds and
mountains far beyond civilisation
by expert “plant-hunters”: of these
.is F. King -on-Ward, an inveterate
explorer of the Far East, who, in
1948, on behalf of the New York
Botanic Garden, made a plant-
hunting expedition to Manipur, a
tiny province wedged inland be-
tween Burma and Assam, and has
written aLont it in Plant Hunter
. in Manipur (Cape).
Mr. Kingdom Ward was accom-
panied by his wife, who helped
him knock off a 35,000-word book
on rhododendrons bn the boat from
London to India. She kept house in
the primitive cottage which was their
base in the village of Ukhrul, 36
miles north'■ east of Imphal, and,
according to the dedication, “enjoyed
every day of it” ; anyway, at the end of
the party she received a corsage more
flattering. than most Women get before
one--the new Manipur-lily, and named
after her Lilium maclinice, which “is
likely to become withm the next ten years,
if not so popular as Lilium regale or
Lilium aUratum, at least as well known.”
(Though thcys is argument whether it is
a lily or a Nomochards.)
To get the lily they made a long trek
and, from a camp, made daily ascents
of the 8427ft. mountain Sirhoi Kashong;
where, in the northern spring, the plants
and flowers break through the snow and
the forest begins to grow audibly, with a
constant rustle and crackling. Rhododen-
drons grow wild there; it is their native
land ; and among many beautiful birds is
the “brain-fever cuckoo” (presumably the
same bird we know in Australia) whose
constant calling gets on the visitor's
nerves.
Well, Mr. Kingdon-Ward had a good
time, observing and picking flowers and
pulling up bulbs and extracting seeds,
but a great deal of his descriptions are
Greek to the reviewer ; or, more precisely,
{“Red Page ” continued on page 35.)


sd
f
sdf
All shoes are stocked in black calf and tan willow in full and half sizes
■
A r/ *. >/ /
/
*
, ■
jBH|
1 Ir -
X jj '** *• 4 * , >fiß
dm !
a ...
/ JIBS?*
( Jk./
7
/S*
•••■3&'
i|BiP* j> ■j*' •■»*
■■l >v*
22
H
■IB
t"
-..;a
IB»
a
| i-“
§HSbS*_
I
lals
■’
-■ .f ~
7
a
/ ?
n
W'^m
mm
7f>
Zi
\ '
.v^W
- (vV\
L > "■
A > ;'
•jX / )■ '=3^'
vV>
Usl
S ]/( \
<v\\
#i
u
\
V v
7?
If
7 ,
(*s
/I
V
fl
rj
i
■ "’A
111
v#
c
JrJi
- 1 ♦>Vr& , v
fa v-?- a'« /
iZ.
I
izz-z
>k
Si
J
1
SHOES FROM
SMART LOOKS... ALL DAY COMFORT
72(6
. . . in this finer men’s footwear, handsomely crafted in six styles from choice leather to give superlative style
and comfort. The richness of quality in every detail goes a long way with value-wise men. Left: The
“Balfour,” wide-fitting. Price 72/6. Middle: The “English,” medium swing toe in “D & E” fittings.
Price 72/6. Right: The “Byron,” with long extended last square toe. Priced at 72/6.
Below: The “King EE,” a sturdily-built shoe in good quality
leather and with medium fitting and square toe. Price 72/6.
..
“■
i ;
ill
i
ms.
mm
m
m-st
UjU4M4MA&
mm
V iv V
f?K
■>.,
J
>vj /■<
A - S' C 4
- - .-•*■
m
ym
>•'-
Comfortable, sturdy Golf shoe. Well wearing
golf shoes in light brown only. In Derby styL
with non-slip rubber heels. Priced at 72/6.
Right: The “Leighton,” a finishing touch to
your dress. A very light-built shoe in black
glace kid. Priced at 80/6.
WE ALSO HAVE STOCKS OF
FAMOUS MARSHALL SHOES
Imported Calf, priced at 103/6
Imported Zebu Brogues, 115/6
Marshall Custom-built Shoes from
72/6.
MEN’S
FLOOR, GEORGE STREET —PHONE M 2401
m A Y OR NIGHT), MAIL BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


New Light on
LAWSON
and the
LABOR MOVEMENT
By J.C. JAMES
• The Australian Journalists' Asso-
ciation N.S.W. District Secretary ,
in an unofficial contribution , ex-
presses a personal viewpoint on the
efforts of partisans to pin a party-
political label on Henry Lawson.
HENRY LAWSON’S place in the
Australian Labor movement is
difficult to fix, partly because of
the fact that our national poet put
in few appearances at Labor rallies and
made even fewer political speeches.
This has not prevented some Sydney
stalwarts of the Australian Labor party,
possibly not unaware of the publicity-
value of the great name, from bestowing
the title “Henry Lawson Labor College”
on one of the party’s propaganda auxili-
aries located at the Trades Hall,
Because Lawson exalted the idea of
mateship it is not unlikely that he would
have been sickened by some of the
dubious political deeds performed during
his lifetime at Room 32, Trades Hall,
in the name of Labor.
Nothing could have been further re-
moved from the spirit of mateship than
the 1917 political murder of Con Wallace,
M.H.R. for West Sydney, who stood
down to give the celebrated T. J. Ryan
from Queensland his seat and was denied
political restoration when Ryan died sud-
denly. There are many other instances.
Too many.
Then came the Dicky Bramstons, the
Big Bill Lamberts and all the remainder
of the Ogres’ Gallery of the period. Did
Henry Lawson, with his wide-open
brown-velvet eyes, have much in common
with them? Would he not have regarded
it all as the opportunists’ struggle for a
political saddle and bridle?
The Communist party has appropriated
the glorious name “Eureka” in much the
same way as the A.L.P. slickers have
attempted to monopolise the tradition of
Henry Lawson. (Mention of Eureka re-
minds me that Lawson, according to his
close friend Arthur Parker, visited the
old Ballarat diggings and carried away a
large slab of rock from Bakery Hill as
a memento of “Freedom’s Fight of ’54.”
“The rock was as big as Henry’s head,”
Parker said.)
What was Henry Lawson’s attitude to
the Australian Labor party and its aims?
What were his ideas and his activities
in relation to specific public questions
of his day as distinct from the broad
humane generalities of his prose and
verse? There is not much evidence to go
on. Fortunately some data are supplied
by Henry’s friends of the Labor Move-
ment and the Bohemian literary circles.
“Hermes,” the undergraduate journal,
on November 20, 1894, described
Lawson as “a God-sent prophet of the
workers, a poet whose intense power of
sympathy... .forces him to realise the
struggling efforts of human nature up-
wards.”
Years afterwards, Henry Boote, editor
of the “Australian Worker,” autographed
my copy of The Poetical Works of
Henry Lawson to state: “He incorporated
the body and soul of Australia in great
literature.”
That sterling Labor woman Lucy
Cassidy wrote on the fly-leaf of the same
book; “Although Henry Lawson’s ex-
perience of life tended to influence him
pessimistically, in the following lines he
shares the hope of all true poets that
the world is moving on to happier things:
‘The World shall yet be a wider World
—for the tokens are manifest’.”
Arthur Parker worked with Henry on
the Blue Mountains in 1887 when the
poet wrote for Lithgow “Mercury” as
well as The Bulletin. “His whole soul
was in his writing and his hopes for
Socialism. I think he would gladly have
died for the Revolution. He roused my
enthusiasm, as he did that of others.
We had long earnest discussions and he
urged me to read and study labor condi-
tions.” In Parker’s statement we have
evidence that the young Lawson was a
propagandist for Socialism.
At an exciting election at Mount Vic-
toria before the advent of the Labor party
Lawson took the side of the Protectionist
candidate and painted a big sign which
read: “Vote for Caulfield and Protection
and the land you’re living in.”
Parker has left it on record that at the
time of the maritime strike Lawson took
him round to join the Australian Socialist
League in Sydney: “He introduced me
to McNamara, Holman, Black, Rae,
Ferguson, Rosa, Jim Mooney and all the
eager ardent spirits who were working
to bring the first Labor party into ex-
istence,” states Parker.
Henry afterwards went to Bourke and
wrote political verses in the “Western
Herald” under a nom-de-plume in sup-
port of the Australian Shearers’ Union
candidate Donald Mac Donnell in his un-
successful election fight against W. N.
Willis.
“My best friend was a Yid,” Henry
wrote of Jack Moses of Dog and Tucker-
box fame. Jack Moses told that he and
Henry strolled into a drovers’ camp on
the Murrumbidgee and Lawson thrilled
with pride when one of the stockmen
stood up and recited “The Ballad of the
Drover.”
Victor Daley was a stout-hearted demo-
crat, and Henry’s working-class ideology
appealed to him. At the send-off when
Henry was leaving with his wife for Eng-
land Daley wrote on the back of an
envelope which he handed to Lawson:
Forty friends all tried and true,
Forty friends to farewell you! .
Come you back (in sun or rain )
Forty friends you’ll find again.
Henry Boote well wrote of him:
“Lawson saw injustice naked. He was
not deceived by the glittering trappings
of the social system, by the imposing
displays of wealth and pomp and power.”
Fred J. Broomfield testified that Henry
painted a huge sign in support of John
West, Labor’s standard-bearer in East
Sydney at the dawn of Federation. Alas,
the majority of Broomfield’s Lawsonian
anecdotes died with him a few years back.
E. J. Brady, editing Labor’s first weekly,
the “Australian Workman,” wrote of
Henry: “Lawson’s political expression is
frankly communistic. No poet writing
in the English language has reacted more
fervidly to a sense of social wrong.”
(Brady was writing on philosophy, not on
party leanings, for the Communist party
was not born here until 1920.)
Brady stated that “Great advantage was
taken of Lawson’s eccentricities by those
who envied or instinctively feared him.”
He went on to write: “The Labor move-
ment was advancing on constitutional
lines and Lawson’s revolutionary genius
was rather an embarrassment than an
asset to Labor leadership which aimed at
establishing the Kingdom of God on earth
by means of universal suffrage and the
basic wage.”
In 1917, when his old friend Tom
Mutch stood for Parliament, Henry, who
was in Leeton, wrote “an open letter to
the electors of Botany” in favor of Tom.
R. J. Cassidy first met Henry Lawson
on the steps of the “Worker” newspaper,
then in Bathurst-street. This Labor writer
and Lawson became firm friends.
According to Vance Marshall, Henry’s
favorite jest was “Tell your hard-up
friends to learn the names of the seven
Chicago martyrs. It’s the password for
a meal and bed at the little mother-in-
law’s.” Mrs. Bertha McNamara (see
plaque at entrance to Sydney’s Trades
Hall) was the grand old lady of Sydney
Socialist circles, as well as the mother
of Henry’s wife, Bertha.
Joe Seymour told the true story of how
the Labor folk wanted to get Cecil
Murphy elected for North Sydney and
they approached Lawson for literary aid.
Henry replied: “I don’t know Murphy
and I hate politics.” However, under
pressure Henry wrote:
I never thought I’d drag my pen through
politics again,
But certain dear good friends of mine
have Murphy on the brain.
And Murphy is a good French name as
you will all agree,
Beside a mate believes in him and that’s
good enough for me —
So vote for Cecil Murphy in the morning.
I never voted in my life — I’d rather breast
the bar
Though I might jolt a “Minister” when
I touch my guitar.
I’ve never been in Parliament because
I never tried
But I’m for anyone that’s out and wants
to get inside
So vote for Cecil Murphy in the morning.
It is hard within the few lines of an
article to analyse every facet of Lawson’s
Stories
THIS WEEK’S “Bulletin” short
storiea include
“HIGH FINANCE”
hy “Standby” (R. S. Porteous)
One of the cleverest stories of the
famous marine author.
NEXT WEEK, Gavin Casey’s
“THE HAIRY MEN
FROM
HANNIGAN’S HALT”
A hilarious Olympiad of trough-
lifting and earth-shovelling in
Kalgoorlie.
passionate poetry of social insurrection.
That he was a rebel there is no doubt.
His was the voice of the new trade-
union movement of the romantic ’nine-
ties. The surging rebellion of his verse
portrayed the tumultuous Labor disputes
of that time. They were days of great
labor struggles and the disintegration of
the old political organisations.
There is no evidence to suggest that
Henry was enthusiastic after the turn of
the century about the Labor party. He
was the poet of the proletariat, but he
had no bent for crusades on specific
political questions.
As Victor Daley said, “Lawson is a
tribal poet. He is the poet of the great
tribe of Down and Out.”
The truth appears to be that Henrv
Lawson’s spirit of social protest belong*
to the whole Labor Movement and not
to any section of it. His philosophy oi
mateship belong? to the human race in
every land.
"Bo” Becomes a Deep-sea Diver
WHILST true, that deep-sea
diving is in danger of becom-
ing one of the overcrowded
professions, it still offers
scope for those seized with the laud-
able ambition of rising to the top.
Those who are light in the head
and heavy in the feet possess a great
natural advantage. Should their
leaden boots happen to come un-
done and fall off—as, for instance,
if the iron bootlaces rust through
from the action of the salt water —
they stand a much better chance of
keeping on an even keel if they are
100 fathoms down. Nothing is more
humiliating to the diver forced to
ascend in an emergency than to
come up feet-first, especially if he
has holes in his rubber sox.
Before making his first descent
into the green depths the tyro will
need to get used to Walking about
suitably weighted at the pedal ex-
tremities. This is best done by
gradually increasing the weights.
He should start off by walking
about his lounge-room in slippers,
moving successively to dancing-
pumps, walking-shoes and Army
boots. Then he can strap 141 b.
weights to these, then 281 b. weights ;
finally he can tie ropes separately
around two bags of cement, slip his
bare feet under the ropes and walk
the bags about. Half an hour of
this will be sufficient for the first
lesson—it is no use overdoing it.
Another essential accomplish-
ment which must be mastered before
the beginner actually takes to the
water is the swallowing of a lighted
cigarette-butt. This is in case both
he and the tender forget when the
top-piece is being screwed down that
he (the diver) is smoking a cigarette.
At 40 fathoms he absent-mindedly
goes to flick the butt away and finds
he can’t get at it. Perforce he will
be compelled to swallow it.
Two “musts” in the diver’s equip-
ment are a small electric torch and
a hand-mirror. Should he feel that
the atmosphere inside his helmet is
starting to get a bit thick he should
shine the torch on his own face
through the glass and look in the
mirror.
If he notices that his face has gone
a light black he need not necessarily
become immediately alarmed, but
should calmly feel around to see if
his air-pipe has developed any knots
in it. If so, he should proceed to
undo them without delay. Should his
face be a deep black it might indi-
cate that a sawfish has carelessly got
too close to his air-pipe on his Way
past after a mullet, and he should
then give the signal to be hoisted.
Practising yawning at will is an
excellent thing, for the ability to do
this might well save the diver’s life.
If on the seabed he happens absent-
mindedly to put his hand on the bot-
tom lip of a giant clam and the shell-
fish closes on it, imprisoning him, all
he has to do then is to look at the
clam and yawn. The clam will be
impelled to do likewise, thus allow-
ing the diver his freedom.
The shark is notoriously a coward
—on this all writers of South Seas
adventure stories are agreed. Should
a 14ft. tiger-shark rush up to the
diver and stare at him through the
glass all he need do is poke his
tongue out and the monster will in
most cases make off, well panicked,
at top speed. Should it be persistent,
however, all the diver then has to do
is show it a night-club menu dis-
playing in bold type the price of a
plate of oysters. Any self-respecting
shark will then slink off abashed.
If the shark happens to be
uniquely aggressive and back-pedals
in preparation for an attack the diver
has merely to lie flat on the seabed.
The shark, aware of his inability to
get under his prey to gnaw him, will
swim away in gloomy frustration.
The 7001 b. groper is a different
proposition. However, if the diver
happens to look up and sees advanc-
ing towards him an enormous cavern
flanked by hundreds of large razor-
sharp teeth he needn’t feel unduly
alarmed. All he has to do is to
calmly poke into the aperture, verti-
cally, the railway dogspike, sharpened
both ends, which is a diver’s standard
equipment for dealing with this
menace. He may then savor to the
full the enjoyment of contemplating
the worried look on the groper as
it wonders why its gob won’t close.
But perhaps the simplest sub-
marine predicament to get out of is
when the diver is grabbed by a giant
devil-fish. Above all, he must re-
main cool and calm, even though he
is collected. Let him wait patiently
for the creature to convey him via
the tentacles to its maw. When it
opens that widely all he has to do is
put his arm in up to his shoulder,
grab the devil-fish’s tonsils and pull
the creature inside-out. The horror,
anxious to pull himself outside-in,
will immediately release his hold.
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 24, 1952
Vol . 73—No. 3789
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”-
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
AUSTRALIA'S CHANCES
Australia is a young country, less advanced
industrially than most of us like to admit, but with
Fortune ready to take it by the hand if it will only
permit itself to be led in the paths of diligence and
commonsense. Momentarily we have lost touch with
realities, to some extent with sincerity and decency
amongst ourselves. And there are plenty of organised
sectional interests, the worst of which is the Com-
munist party, only too ready to see that the people
generally remain out of touch with those things and
with each other.
At the same time it should not be forgotten that
we are living in a complex age wherein ordinary
existence is not the simple thing it was 50 years ago.
Our lives have not only become crowded with
mechanical inventions that have altered the time and
space factors in our existence very suddenly; they
are, because of efforts to achieve “social security” and
“full employment,” very complex economically. It is
not too much to say that the benefits which science
and invention have brought to us since the turn of
the century have been largely offset by airy-fairy
experiments in political economy that have run to
wood rather than to fruit,
Australia, without any question, is much more
socialistic than it was before World War 11. And
whether one believes that Socialism is preferable to
private enterprise or not, all should concur that
Socialism will fail if the individual does not contribute
to the State the full quota that the Welfare State
requires of him. And with that failure democracy may
also fail. It is an unfortunate fact, in Australia, that as
the Welfare State has expanded in its scope the less
willing have its beneficiaries become to support it with
the production upon which all economic welfare is
based.
The fall in our export income, out of which we
pay for imported goods, is at present bringing to us
more forcibly the fact that our own production efforts
are inadequate. Only increased man-hour production
can replenish the pool of individual incomes or of
investment funds for the expansion of employment.
There is no remedy for the distress save harder work.
Dr. Coombs, in his -latest report for the Common-
wealth Bank board, has no different counsel for Aus-
tralians from that of Dr. Schacht for the Persians,
or of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in
Britain for his own people. Dr. Schacht told
the Persian dictator Moussadek that the trouble on the
Tehran Government’s side was that it had no financial
policy except to print notes when it was hard up, that
he would try to frame an economic policy for Persia,
but that “the real coverage for the currency of every
nation is the energy and industry of its workers,” And
that used to be the opinion of most British and
Australian Socialists.
Schacht’s advice is a close paraphrase of
Chancellor Butler’s warning to the British people last
April. And Dr. Coombs’s survey says that “more
competitive conditions are emphasising the existence
in Australia of inefficiency and high costs.”
Quite certainly there is no mere political device
which will cure our troubles. We cannot vote or
legislate ourselves out of high costs any more than
we can inflate ourselves free of them. No Australian
need fool himself with the belief that we can get
ourselves out of this production-slump without much
hard work and a radical change also in the privileged
outlook of the hordes of civil servants who produce
nothing and whose very numbers are a condemnation
of their inefficiency.
It is true that the Welfare State and centralised
“controls” create a demand for civil servants. But they
also create the necessity for a more energetic working
population, who not only have to support the
pensioners and the invalids who, among many others,
are the beneficiaries of the system, but those who
administer it as well. These civil servants must
become more competent and industrious. Those who
have such a large say in administering the country’s
economic affairs hold great powers either to hinder or
to help.
Our complex economy in Australia —a country
3000 miles wide —is a great strain on any Cabinet in
Canberra which attempts to do its duty conscientiously.
And Australian Governments get little help from the
Commonwealth Constitution or from State instru-
mentalities. The central Government must come to
rely increasingly on its departmental heads and those
under them, which is all the more reason why our ciyU
WHO'S AFRAID OF THE BIG. BAD WOLF?
service should be of the best administrative material
available. Appointments merely on political grounds
may mean, eventually, a major breakdown.
Australians need, above all, to get together again
as Australians, to face our troubles as a people, not
as parties and sections. If we don’t we shall have to
solve all our problems the hard and bitter way, and
our growth and progress as a nation will be
dangerously slow.
The Flinders By-election
The narrow victory of the Victorian Liberal party in
Toorak was not such a gain by “Labor” as might
appear. Absentee votes were excluded, and 3000 fewer
people voted —a fact pointing either to indifference in
a large voting section or a failure in organisation.
But the voting has significance in connection
with the Flinders poll on October 18. It was
not to be expected that Mr. Petty would
poll as heavily as E. R. Reynolds, Q.C., who
held the seat previously, and who seems to have
abandoned it in some disgust at the inside atmosphere
of Victorian State politics. But there is always
a tendency in the Liberal party to forget
that Governments are made and broken not
by the majority of the people, as the democratic fiction
has it, but by a small marginal vote which is peculiarly
susceptible to violence and panicmongering. Dr.
Evatt in 1951 gave a display of his ability to
defeat Government plans by only a tiny majority in
the total vote, but still to defeat them. A little more
Liberal energy would have meant success.
The “Labor” candidate for Flinders, a hold-
over from last election, with the experience of
that campaign behind him and the knowledge that his
results were creditable against so formidable a local
character as Colonel Ryan, especially in an election
in which the tide ran against “Labor,” has been given
a flying start. The Liberals have at last selected
Mr. John Frederick Rossiter, a 38-year-old senior
lecturer in English at the Melbourne Technical College.
A fighting soldier of the last war, Mr. Rossiter
seems a good candidate. He has the right background
and-he has youth. But he starts, as Liberal candidates
always start in these days, with a handicap oh time and
with divided forces behind him.
Moreover, this will be no mere local fight between
Mr. Rossiter and Mr. K. W. Ewert, who failed to win
the seat by 4895 votes at last election. It will be a
battle of the giants between the leaders of the parties
into which both sides will probably throw their full
strength. As the outcome of it the moral advantage
at the Senate election, and perhaps of an election of
both Federal Houses, some time before August next,
will be established.
It will not be enough for the Liberals to win;
it will be necessary for them to give decisive evidence,
clear-cut and understandable, to the whole country
both that they have the better policy to offer and that
they have the strength and guts to carry it out and
to slam back the challenge of the divided, sectarian-
riven, Leftist-ridden “Labor” party with the kind of
blow that will place it on the defensive next year.
The Government has committed its sins, mostly of
omission. But thanks to papers like the Sydney
“Herald,” no less than to the weakness of the Liberal
public-relations organisations, the history of the Gov-
ernment is viewed in a perspective which is
distorted, with results that are unjust. It gets
little credit for the best peace-time effort in defence
ever produced in this country —one achieved
with next to no fuss and with a minimum of disloca-
tion. It is not given due credit for what has been
made possible in the increasingly smooth working of
industrial relationships through its tranformation of the
half-baked measures forced on the Chifley Govern-
ment to purge the unions of Moscow-directed leaders.
It gets no thanks for the harmony and swelling
production in the coal industry, the heart of national
prosperity, or for the obvious effects of its short-term
policy to check inflation. - And while it is blamed by
“Labor” critics for not reducing taxation more than
it has done, nobody has said a word about the
fact that, in a world of riotously-mounting wage-costs
and wilting will-to-work, it has succeeded in keeping
taxation down. Few have paused for a moment to
think what the effects of the policy advocated by
“Labor,” of controlled prices and uncontrolled wages,
would be upon taxation and employment.
If Mr. Menzies and his candidate can get the facts
clearly into the heads of the electors of Flinders they
should win. But if “Labor” succeeds in wiping out
the present substantial Liberal majority—there are
3000 more voters on the roll this time—the consequence
must almost inevitably be a drastic overhaul of the
whole organisation of the Government parties.
It would be a disaster if “Labor” were to win the
next general election. Its controllers have vowed that
the next time it goes into power they will make sure
that it is in for keeps, as their party has done in
Queensland, and as its shabby minority Cahill Govern-
ment is apparently in process of doing in N. S. Wales.
Democratic government, as we understand it, will
almost certainly cease to exist, giving way to permanent
“Labor” dictatorships maintained in power by gerry-
mandered electorates, so constructed as to make defeat
of the Government impossible even if the only yotMt
for it are a man and a dog. 1


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cahill and New States
Mr. Cahill, of N. S. Wales, denies
responsibility for the “tentative” deci-
sions of the Markell Redistribution
Commission, against which the Liberals
—probably too late—are appealing. The
honest fellow implies that in his zeal for
electoral justice he passed his untimely
amendment to the law and has suffered
for it. He finds himself “concerned at
the loss of two splendid colleagues”
through his own uprightness.
One of the “splendid colleagues,” Mr.
Finnan, of Darlinghurst, was due to go
west, anyway, he having been chased out
of a Hawkesbury electorate, which he
could not win last time, to scrape home
with some strong-smelling votes in the
refuge from which he is now being
smoked-out. He is being well provided
for at taxpayers’ cost. Mr. Cahill had
nothing to say about the effect of the
alterations to 63 of the 94 State seats
made by the commission. These seem
likely to give the Cahill-Sheahan-Gus
Kelly combination, which has been hang-
ing on to office by its toenails —or, rather,
Mr. Geraghty’s toenails —a chance of 10
or more seats at the next poll and of
perpetual office whether it is in a minority
or not. On total votes cast at the last
election it has been a minority Govern-
ment ever since elected.
If this doesn’t galvanise the New-State
movements into effective action nothing
will. Except for the electorates enslaved
to the union-organiser there is scarcely a
district in N. S. Wales which has any real
affinity for the present spoils-to-the-
victor mob in office.
Regions like New England, which has
a population more than twice as much as
Tasmania, and whose de facto capital of
Armidale has developed metropolitan
features such as a university college and
great public schools, are getting daily
more sick of the slatternly squandering
and open political dishonesty of these
gangs of union-organisers and A.L.P.-
branch career-men-on-the-make. If ever
they had the chance of gaining their
freedom and throwing off the suckers of
the Sydney octopus it is now. New Eng-
land recently has designed its own flag.
It should raise it.
The most urgent need of the whole
Commonwealth at present is a Consti-
tutional Convention which would place
the subdivision of the country on the
basis of regional development and com-
munity of interest in the forefront of its
programme. The Menzies Government
could earn itself tens of thousands of
votes by taking the initiative and putting
forward an acceptable plan.
Eager to Control Wool
After the war-time wool-marketing
scheme ended and the Joint Organisation
for the disposal of surplus wools remain-
ing from that scheme had more or less
done its work, the Canberra Government
found itself being urged to continue some
sort of a wool scheme apparently
designed to put a permanent “floor
under wool prices. , . ,
Growers and brokers rightly rejected
the notion. It was here suggested to
Mr. McEwen, Minister for Commerce
and Agriculture in a Liberal Government
elected on an anti-socialisation policy and
committed to reduce the number of con-
trols, that instead of making high-sound-
ing speeches on the proposal he should
find out where it came from.
That still stands, for, though many
people had supposed that wool had
escaped the bureaucratic threat, the
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association the other
day found it necessary to announce that
it “will oppose the retention, by the Com-
monwealth Government, of the wool-
stores and the continuation, under a new
title, of the Australian Wool Realisation
Commission Statistical Service.”
This followed a statement by Mr.
McEwen in the Parliament to Mr.
Bostock (Vic.) that “what had been
designated a wool-marketing service
should be established”:
The body would be no more than a
statistical service for the purpose of analys-
ing the composition of the Australian wool-
clip and the values of the various types of
wool I have agreed to meet a deputation
from the wool industry for the purpose of
discussing the structure and general desira-
bility of establishing this statistical service.
Who told Mr. McEwen it was desir-
able? Complete and thorough monthly
and annual wool statistics are issued by
all the big wool firms, there are seven
Government statisticians doing the same
job, there is a Commonwealth Bureau of
Agricultural Economics, State marketing-
bureaus, a “Wool Digest” put out
monthly by the Wool Board, which also
issues almost daily bulletins, and sundry
lesser outfits, all continuously “analysing
the composition” of the clip and wool
values and prospects generally.
The N.S.W. graziers oppose it because
in their view the official gathering of
statistics is “the proper function of the
Commonwealth Statistician,” but more
importantly because it regards the whole
thing as a scheme to keep intact the
machinery for imposing Government
controls on wool. They admit Mr.
McEwen’s party mightn’t do that, but
they don’t trust other parties.
So Mr. McEwen or somebody in his
party ought to find out where the idea
comes from and scotch it. On the face
of it there is a good reason to believe
that some starry-eyed planner or plan-
ners see the making of a nice new
department and the inevitable bunches
of officials eventually controlling wool.
The longer the Menzies Government
allows its Minister to play with the silly
notion the more danger there is of it
becoming a reality.
Melbourne Show
Victoria’s shop-window was opened for
inspection on a day of howling
northerly weather, and the soil of the
Mallee introduced into the arena would
not only have been that adhering to the
hooves of the Clydesdales if the time had
been mid-summer. The cold gale blew
the hats off the ladies, tossed the manes
of the horses, excited the little pony stal-
lions and even caused a ripple to pass
along the immense sleek flank of that
moving mountain, Wantabadgery Joe,
described by judge Yelland as one of the
most magnificent bulls he had ever seen,
and very nearly perfect.
Despite the judge, Wantabadgery Joe
seemed absolutely perfect—but, then, to
The Bulletin everything seemed perfect.
It couldn’t imagine anything more noble
and majestic than the Clydesdales, which,
it was informed, are coming back into
favor, though last year it was confidently
predicted that they would be an extinct
species by this year. Yet at the same
time the machinery is expanding and now
occupies a quarter of the R.A.S.’s 20
acres, all of it painted in the most alluring
colors and ready to perform every func-
tion of a human being except thinking
and reproduction.
The dogs were more noisy and the cats
more aristocratic than last year, and the
number of entries in all sections—over
20,000 —was a record. The R.A.S. itself
is perfect. While it has given its over-
grown village a face-lift and introduced
all sorts of innovations, it hasn’t tam-
pered with any of the old features. The
green-and-yellow fountains still spout at
the entrance, the frozen bull that once
occupied the lawn at the National Gal-
lery still struggles with its frozen owner,
and the sideshows have returned and can
easily be located by anybody with nor-
mal hearing. They include Chief Little
Wolf and that old-timer Jimmy Sharman,
performing - apes, a glassblower, a
magician, a dog-and-monkey circus and
the World’s Largest and Longest-dead
Turtle. There is also an African pygmy
who is the smallest threat to the White
Australia policy in existence.
An official told The Bulletin that the
exhibits are conservatively estimated to
be worth £2,500,000, and that is not sur-
prising. It costs an adult equestrienne
upwards of £lOO to fit herself out in the
orthodox fashion for the Garryowen and
a small equestrienne up to £4O.
The Bulletin couldn’t find the giant
mangelwurzel this year, but hopes it
hasn’t been forced out of the struggle for
existence by a turnip.
False-alarm in Spring-street
It is more than 30 years since any party
in the Victorian Parliament had suffici-
ent members to carry on a Government
without the support of one or other of
its rivals. Sometimes there has been a
composite Government, sometimes the
strongest party has governed with the
bargained support of the weakest —or of
odd Independents ; but, stick a pin into
any year since 1935, and it is odds-on
you’ll find a minority Country-party
Government holding office by selling its
political soul to numerically larger
“Labor” or Liberal groups. Albert
Dunstan did it for nine years ; McDonald,
with 12 followers in the Assembly—the
lowest ebb his party has reached since
1929 —has managed to hold the Premier-
ship for more than two, being kept in
power first by, “Labor,” then by the
L.-C.P.
Last week the Thirteen Farmers of
Spring-street had their closest call, when
former Liberal Premier Hollway and five
other L.-C.P. members, with the support
of “Labor,” attempted to defeat the
Government on a motion of no-confi-
dence. Hollway’s attitude was that the
time had come to put an end to minority
rule, and his hope, had the motion been
carried, was to form a “caretaker” Gov-
ernment pledged to a redistribution of
seats on the basis of two State seats to
each Federal electorate. His suggestion
was not a new one; it was part of L.-
C.P. policy until a few months ago, when
it was rejected by a fractional majority
and a plan more acceptable to the
Country party substituted.
Hollway’s motion was debated with
much acrimony—one “Labor” member
called a Country-party Minister a mangy
dog and was in turn styled a lying cow
—into the small hours of Thursday morn-
ing. Hollway appealed to Liberal-leader
Norman to permit his followers to vote
on non-party lines, but without success.
The motion was finally defeated by 32
votes to 31.
Although the whole incident looked
like just another manoeuvre in Victorian
politics, it really held out to the Parlia-
ment a chance of putting an end once
and for all to such manoeuvres. There is
no more virtue in a minority Government
propped up by Liberal support than there
is in the same Government propped up
by “Labor” support. That this is the
general feeling of Victorian electors is
suggested by the large number of
Liberal supporters who abstained from
voting at the Toorak by-election.
Percy Lindsay
Anybody who knew Percy Lindsay will
see him immortally in the mind’s eye
strolling down George-street to The
Rm.T.F.Tnsr office or one of his other haunts
in town in his white topee, his spotless
white ducks, with his walking-stick swing-
ing jauntily in his hand; his face shin-
ing-pink from his morning cold-shower,
his blue eyes radiant with good cheer ;
looking like a bishop in mufti doing the
rounds of his flock, an English squire
inspecting his villagers, a Malayan tea-
planter on holiday.. .with only slight
inclination to the right of his broken nose
indicating that it might be amusing to
wander from the narrow path of dignity
and suburban respectability.
He lived the perfect life for an artist,
inhabiting an old stone tenement in North
Sydney with battered books, battered
furniture, battered teapots, oil-paints,
brushes, palettes, easels and lovely little
paintings in battered frames all over the
place, the latest canvases stuck on the
walls with tacks for further meditation.
He cared absolutely nothing for money,
never knew that politics existed, took no
part in the warfare of the arts, wanted
nothing but what he had: a roof and a
bed, something to eat, friends to relax
with, and the whole of time free for
painting.
He was one of those supremely rare
souls who enjoy every minute of being
alive, so everyone enjoyed his company.
The stories about him are mostly
hilarious, like the one about his son
Peter (himself an accomplished water-
colorist) reproving him for some
bohemian outbreak and Percy replying,
with an air of astonished discovery,
“Hang it all, Peter, don’t you know I’m
old enough to be your father?” But he
was always an artist under the gaiety of
the surface, and once told the present
writer how he sat so still when painting a
landscape that a rabbit came up to him to
be stroked.
It could be the rabbit that is painted
in his masterpiece of “Autumn Willows”
in the N. S. Wales National Gallery—
usually hung in a dismal and dingy corner
where no one can see it. Being free of
the competitive spirit—too free for a
major achievement —he mostly painted
very small oils. But everything he did
—particularly his studies of the
silver light on masses of white cumu-
lus clouds or the subtle effects of light
and mist at dawn on the Harbor fore-
shores—has a unique quality of lyrical
serenity: the natural expression of his
personality.
Presumably the National Gallery will
hold a memorial exhibition. If they
gather enough of the small oils it will
clearly demonstrate his right to a minor
but distinctive immortality in the great
Australian school of Tom Roberts,
Streeton and Gruner.
Power Politics in N.S.W.
Correspondence between N.S.W.
Premier Cahill and the Prime Minister
over orders for electric-power plant for
which Mr. Cahill purported to be
negotiating overseas suggests that Mr.
Menzies has successfully resisted an
effort akin to selling him the Central-
railway clock.
Mr. Cahill now admits that he has
not got a bean to pay for any plant any-
where, never did intend to pay for any
and throughout expected somebody else
to find the money—dollars, sterling, or
even shrunken Australian quids. Mr.
Menzies, he says, won’t foot the bill, and
so N.S.W. will be starving for power by
1955. Mr. Cahill is like the man who
said: “I offered to have a drink with
him at his expense and he wiped me off.
The sufferings of my poor wife and child
will now be his fault.”
The story runs like this:
July.—Mr. Cahill told Mr. Menzies he
wanted the Federal Government to provide
10,500,000 dollars to buy an American
60-75,000 kw. generator now building which
would go to South Africa if N.S.W. did
not order it. The American job was better
than he could get elsewhere, and delivery
much earlier.
Mr. Menzies replied that he had dis-
covered while overseas that the kind of
plant Mr. Cahill wanted to buy in America
is “freely available in England.”
September 8-10.—Mr. Cahill wrote to
Mr. Menzies that discussions between
N.S.W. Electricity Commission (Mr.
Conde) and U.K. and French manufacturers
have been completed, that U.S.A. could
supply 12 months earlier than the others,
and he would like a chunk of the new
dollar loan from the International Bank, this
to be extra to N.S.W.’s quota of loan
funds from Loan Council.
Mr. Jack Beale, M.L.A., consulting
engineer, says he has seen the identical
American plant being manufactured under
licence in France. N.S.W. can get it there
just as quickly as from U.S.A. Mr. Cahill
denies this.
Sept. 16-18. —Mr. Menzies says the Com-
monwealth Government will not make
dollars available when comparable equip-
ment is available for sterling in U.K. or
Europe.
Mr. Conde asks French firm to submit
quotes for a power-station, and Mr. Cahill
asks Commonwealth Government to pro-
vide money to buy French plant.
Sept. 19. —Mr. Cahill finally admits he
hasn’t got any money to buy any plant
anywhere, and didn’t have since the
argument began.
The affair has given public servants
on both sides an interesting several weeks
of futile exchange of bureaucratic
unpleasantries. The only positive gain (to
a limited number of people) is that the
N.S.W. Government, being penniless,
cannot for the present “acquire” the
Balmain power company’s business for
the State Electricity Commission,
Sheahan Under Fire
It is no surprise that Mr. Sheahan’s
demand for discipline and proposals for
retrenchment in the Transport Depart-
ment incurred the ire of a section of
N.S.W. Cabinet and caucus. The attacks
on him as “an embarrassment to the
‘Labor’ party” drew from Premier Cahill
subsequently a statement, at a meeting
with Transport Department chiefs, that
he expected those chiefs to do their duty
and produce results within the next six
weeks, and also a public broadcast com-
plimenting the Leader of the Opposition
for his castigation of the Government’s
financial mess in reply to the Budget
speech.
There was a stunned silence in Mac-
quarie-street broken only by Brother
Clive’s stamping in hobnailed boots on
the committee of the R.S.P.C.A. In
response to union protests Mr. Sheahan
had obviously been trying to mark time
with retrenchment, and was nettled by
published reports of the Premier’s
remarks at the transport meeting. When
he rose last week to take up the Budget
debate he filled the Assembly and the
public galleries. . .
Defending the transport administra-
tion in the broad, Mr. Sheahan declared
that the services were “almost as favor-
able as those of any other Government
in Australia.” That, of course, is not
saying much for them. For himself, he
said:
I do not quit under pressure or sur-
render under_ fire, nor wiU I resign out o
pique....l am not about to die, nor do I
salute the Opposition.
It was his leader who saluted the
Opposition, and Mr. Treatt’s criticism
was caustic. The “embarrassment to the
party” led to the sudden death of the
Assembly debate. .
The 500 dismissals and retirements
(one-third of them married women and
another quarter average male employees!
were announced at the weekend, a'ong
with a union ultimatum that the dis-
missals be withdrawn on penalty of* a
general tram and bus strike.
Peace in Our Time
“Ek Dum’s” summary;
Presumably to prove their b °? a , fi l £ p V ° hav e
Peking Peace Conferences which they have
called and financed—even of
believed, of sending an aircraft thousan
miles to pick up Australian delegat£ launched
sible) —the Chinese Government ha . laujcn
heavy attacks on the west of the A th --
Korea at a point which suggested tha .
were making preliminary moves to drive
Se it U needs to be emphasised Aat die
Allies, not the Communists, are on J ,
sive. The latter have, General Van Meet
(Continued on next page.)


mm
f
n
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,”
Sydney.
BW 8631.
Esdsaile's 2|x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
® Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
0 Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
9 Very long eye relief.
0 Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2-jx—Eye relief 3|in.
to Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 28ft. per
100 yards.
fAckik
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
61 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
&
i
builded a house of brick,
’Twas as sound as sound could be.
But the builder himself was out of
repair.
And a ragged cough coughed he.
“ ’Tis a wooden suit I’ll be wearing
soon,”
Said he, and his face was dour.
But he beat the old Reaper in just
two hours
With
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
increased the strength of their army to over
1,000,000. In three months to September 5
the enemy had lost 15,033 killed, 14,832
wounded and 283 captured.
The North Koreans are rarely mentioned
today. The staple of the enemy force consists
of Russian-trained Northern Chinese troops,
well-equipped, well-armed, dug into the very
heart of hills and drilled to new types of
fighting. They have begun to use the bayonet.
The Australian daily Press already has won
the war with new controlled, guided weapons,
but the Allied command is singularly modest
on this subject. Guided missiles are certainly
being used; so is a device on the F-86 recently
come into use and described as a “gimmick,”
which is reported to be increasing the bag of
MiG’s.
The Anzus military States are meeting in
Hawaii; two atom experiments —at Monte Bello
and Eniwetok —are in the air at once.
In Malaya nearly 700 Communists have been
killed in the past six months and the attacks
by terrorists are being steadily reduced. The
casualties compare with 618 in 1949, 639 in
1950 and 1025 in 1951. What is more important
than mere numbers is that more leaders are
being disposed of. In August six committee-
members and five branch committee-members
and two branch secretaries of the C.P. were
wiped out.
In Indo-China there has been considerable
fighting, costing the Communists over 2000
casualties this month.
In Europe the main feature has been the
“Mainbrace” operation of the N.A.T.O. fleets
in the Atlantic. Theoretically the operations
September 13-25 are being carried out under
the joint command of Admiral McCormick,
Supreme Allied Commander in the Atlantic, and
General Ridgway; but actually the direction is
in the hands of Admiral Sir Patrick Brind,
R.N., who, physically, at least, is head and
shoulders over the rest of the high command,
being about 6ft. Sin. tall. (He was here in
command of a cruiser squadron with his
flag in Swiftsure during 1945.)
The ships of seven countries, 160 in all, are
taking part, with large accretions of the R.A.F.
and other air forces. The assembly-points were
the Forth and Clyde. Sir George Creasy,
deputy chief-of-staff for the Normandy landing,
commands the East Atlantic Forces —he is
C.-in-C. Home Fleet, and began operations in
H.M.S. Vanguard, transferring to dry land.
Vice-Admiral Stump, U.S.N., in U.S.S. Wis-
consin, commands the striking fleet, and Rear-
Admiral A. K. Doyle, U.S.N., the carrier
striking force.
The exercise is predominantly one for mari-
time forces, sea and air, engaged in support of
land and air forces in Europe. It is especially
an exercise for aircraft in the anti-submarine
protection of carrier fleets and for the carrier
fleets in trade-route protection under conditions
which call for mobility and elasticity of opera-
tion. Generally speaking it was also an all-
round exercise in land-sea-air co-operation,
including the delivery of airborne troops and
supplies in land war in Europe.
The main lesson learnt in the first four days
of the exercise was the vulnerability of aircraft-
carriers, which used to be taken for granted,
but which the newfangled American theorists
have forgotten. The number of U.S. ideas of
this sort which have gone overboard since the
Korean war began is very striking. In spite
of all air-protection, one submarine bagged f<3ur
carriers in the early stages of the exercise.
Once again officers like Admiral Vian, who
thought at the end of World War II that the
days of the carrier were numbered, are being
justified, and those experts of the school which
shouted in the Estimates debates in Canberra
early in the month that cruisers and battleships
were obsolete and useless will have to revise
their views.
On land further east the news included
reports of the rapid building of a military road
from Russia into Tibet, a visit by General
Ridgway to Turkey earlier in the month and
by General Montgomery, who arrived on
September 19 and was due to spend four days
there; also a visit of Mr, Eden to Yugoslavia,
at the same time that a Yugoslav military mis-
sion left to spend eight days in Greece and a
fortnight in Turkey to establish “some common
form of defence arrangements.”
Turkish military manoeuvres to test the
defences of the Bosphorus began on September
9. They are based on the assumption of the
capture of Thrace by land and parachute from
Bulgaria and Rumania attacking Gallipoli and
the Chatalja lines, which guard the Istanbul
approach.
A British Army base in Belgium will be com-
plete by Christmas. The N.A.T.O. manoeuvres
in Germany, linked with the Mainbrace opera-
tion, began on September 16, in the presence
of General Bradley, chairman of the U.S. Com-
bined Chiefs of Staff committee.
POLITICAL POINTS
Granny loves Artie.
• ©
Cahill’s explanation that his Govern-
ment is arranging another redistribution
of electorates because the Opposition
didn’t like the one he gave them in 1950
is about as convincing as if he had said
they were doing it because it was raining
at Bondi. Since when has a “Labor”
Government shown any regard for the
likes and dislikes of the Opposition-—or of
anyone outside the party circle?
Prices Minister Finnan’s reaction to the
news that his Darlinghurst seat was to be
wiped out —“I must abide by the umpire’s
decision” —was very graceful. So much so,
in fact, that one could almost hear the
creak of the door of the Agent-General’s
office in London opening to admit him.
• •
The Prime Minister told N.S.W.
Chamber of Manufacturers that Australia
could achieve wonders if it were bold,
brave and enterprising and that “No
other country in the world has more
work to be done than Australia.” Come
on. Bob; call off the bureaucrats and
let us be bold, brave and enterprising.
• •
American Press in Annie-Get-Your-
Gun mood: Any bang you can bang we
can bang louder!
• ©
\
Wool sales in four States ought to
have settled the dying quivers of the
financial panic which broke out last
autumn. Values all round were firm
on 1951 prices. The 1951 prices were a
far truer reflection of what the world
thought of wool and is likely to think
for some time. Because they were well
below the absurd peak of 1950, people
who should have known better thought
the 1930 depression had returned.
About £42 million will be whacked up
among woolgrowers in three annual in-
stalments beginning about next March.
The money is the undistributed profits of
the sale of surplus wool made by the
Joint Organisation after the war-time
wool-scheme ended. The fact of the
payments being spread over three years
will ease the beneficiaries’ tax responsi-
bilities —a point worth noting by other
people likely to collect a big amount in
any one year,
• •
On Monday the Liquor Commission
began hearing counsels’ addresses. There's
a baker’s dozen and then some to be
heard, so the earbashing will probably
last well into next week. Mr. Justice
Maxwell had suggested written addresses
instead of vocal eloquence, but his sug-
gestion was received with a marked lack
of enthusiasm. An addressograph
machine might have been even better.
© «
Although it was rather ironic to hear
Doc. Evatt oppose a bill on the grounds
that it was a “trend towards bureau-
cracy,” there seems to be no good pui’pose
in the provision in the Lands Acquisition
Bill which gives the Minister for the
Interior power to resume land —a power
now residing in the Governor-General-
in-Council —and also to delegate his
authority to resume. It is not difficult
to visualise the danger of such powers in
the hands of a Minister pledged to
socialisation. That is apparently what
Liberal member Hulme had in mind when
he spoke against the bill. Minister for
the Interior Kent Hughes adjourned the
debate.
• e
It was announced that two “peace dele-
gates” got away to Hong Kong by plane
last week, the Rev. Victor James (Uni-
tarian) and K. D. Gott, a journalist.
“Meinself und Gott.”
Since the terrorist campaign broke out
in Malaya in June, 1948, security forces
have killed 3440 rebels. In the eyes of
the “Peace” delegates those killed were
patriots, murdered by Imperialist aggres-
sors. In the past three years, according
to Peking radio, the Chinese Communists
have “liquidated” 2,000,000 anti-Com-
munist “bandits.” No murder there;
just one of the necessary inconveniences
of founding a “Peoples’ Republic” of
peace-lovers.
• •
Some statements are best left unchal-
lenged, and a remark recently made in
the Queensland Parliament by E. J.
Gaven, Opposition member for South-
port, seems to fall into that category.
The honorable member said: “There is
only one paper that tells the truth in this
country today.” Left at that, every paper
in Australia, not excepting The Bulletin,
could have preened itself on its exclusive
possession on the lamp of truth. Unfor-
tunately someone had to ask “Which
paper is that?” Gaven replied ‘“The
Sydney Shipping News’ —it tells you what
time boats enter the harbor and when
they leave.” s
• o
Calwell and Ward, speaking in the
Reps last week, expressed “Labor's tradi-
tional opposition” to overseas loans.
Strange that Premier Cahill doesn’t share
the tradition!
© •
Queensland greeted the spring with
mixed feelings. The big drought has prac-
tically denuded the north-west of cattle
and sheep, but sugarmen expect a bumper
harvest, and the dairying industry is pick-
ing up hand over fist.
• o
Was Gilbert glimpsing ahead of his
time to Canberra, 1952, when he wrote
“With all our faults, we love our House
of Peers”? This little snippet of dialogue
suggests it;
, Mr. Menzies: The honorable member
said, in a rather foolish fashion, that I
invited Lord Lindsay to come here because
I wanted to see what an earl looked like.
Good heavens, I have seen hundreds of
earls!
Mr. Calwell: Do they all look alike?
Mr. Menzies: No, they all look different.
As a matter of fact, there is nothing that
half so much resembles a meeting of the
House of Lords as the gathering of honor-
able members opposite.
Yes, Gilbert must have seen Canberra.
Otherwise how could he have written:
They are no members of the common
throng,
They are all noblemen who have gone
wrong.
e •
Half-Premier McDonald described the
Hollway No-confidence motion as a piece
of opportunism. There’s nothing like
talking about the subject you’re familiar
with!
• •
A point that seems to have been over-
looked in assessing the Toorak (State)
by-election as a pointer to Flinders is
that, although the Liberal majority was
greatly reduced, the “Labor” vote was
also below 1950 figures;
1950
Reynolds (L.-C.P.) .. •• 12,509
Peagram (Lab.) .. .. • • 9,178
1952
Petty (L.-C.P.) 9,160
Peagram (Lab.) .. .. • • 8,874
There were 3653 fewer votes cast at the
by-election than in 1950; only 78 per
cent, of voters enrolled troubled to visit
the polling-booth. This is exceptionally
low, even for a by-election; in Kew a
couple of years ago 83 per cent, voted
and in Richmond 88 per cent.
If, as Evatt and co. maintain, electors
are using State by-elections as a means of
protesting against the Federal Govern-
ment, surely the Toorakians should have
rolled up in sufficient force to give
Peagram at least as many votes as he
scored in 1950. Had they done so he
would have won the seat. The real reason
for Liberal apathy in Toorak seems to
be that they were disgusted with their
party for keeping McDonald in power
but not sufficiently disgusted to vote
“Labor.”
• •
While the Friday-night shopping argu-
ment is raging fiercely in Sydney one par-
ticular phase of it is being aired in court
—a furniture-store proprietor is being
charged by the Department of Labor and
Industry with having “failed to close his
shop after 5.30 p.m. on Friday,”
Defendant’s counsel claims that the
Behind The Iron Curtain—
Page 27
prosecutor is barking up the wrong tree,
and that his client is “entitled to keep his
business open any hour he likes as long
as it is not a shop.” Case adjourned—
likewise the answer to the riddle “When
is a shop not a shop?”
• i
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” reports that
J. Kruttschnitt, chairman of Mt. Isa
Mines, when showing a visitor around,
pointed to the company’s workings, said
“That’s the lead-mine.” Then he pointed
out other buildings and said “There are
the goldmines.” The other buildings were
Mt. Isa pubs. Still, Mt. Isa hasn’t any
gold prospectors of the calibre of Judge
Maxwell and Dovey, Q.C.
• •
“What a cowardly attack to make on
a man who cannot defend himself!” —
E. J. Ward, House of Reps, Sept. 16.
• •
From an article by Mr. Stephen
Schofield in the “Ottawa Journal”:
Australia House puts Canada House in
the shade. It is like going into the drawing-
room of the Shah. It is bright and lavish.
Marble staircases, with black-and-gold
railings, wind gently up each side of a
vast hall, about three stories high and
brilliantly lighted. Huge marble pillars,
ornate with gilded decorations, glisten
under fluorescent lights around the ceiling.
The elevator operators are young men,
, immaculately groomed.
All perhaps a little misleading to intend-
ing migrants.
• •
No fewer than 400 people turned up
to a public protest in Parramatta
(N.S.W.) against the Cahill Govern-
ment’s intention to grab a private elec-
tricity-supply company and hand it over
to Sydney County Council, which is
agent for the inept State Electricity
Commission. The meeting carried a reso-
lution asking the local council to create a
county council to control electricity. But
wouldn’t that merely be an agent for the
S.E.C.?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“C. 8.”: Pitfalls of the language for
the New Australian? A feminine member
of the genus was discussing with another
the , relative value of fruit-trees and
vegetables in the backyard-garden when
an old Australian interrupted. “Grow
rhubarb,” she advised. “Rhubarb’s
apples.”
*> *X* ❖
“Composto”; I had always thought
that the trophy for having the longest
nomenclatural tag in the continent was
held by Lake Cadibarrawirracanna, to the
west of Lake Eyre, but recent maps show
a dot in Simpson’s Desert, about 25 miles
west-nor’-west of Poeppel’s Peg, labelled
Lake Mirranpongapongunna, making it a
dead-heat. But, unless the editor and
printer of the 1869 South Australian
Gazetteer were in an alcoholic conspiracy
to fool their readers, the real champ, is a
freshwater spring in the Flinders Ranges
—Warraiillialilliallilia. If the Warralil-
lialilliallilians lived in Europe they’d
build up a profitable tourist industry out
of a name like that, and Australians
would go there just for the pleasure of
buying postcards bearing a picture of
the name-board.
❖ *X* ❖
“F.S.”: A Melbourne architect back
from Europe said that Australian archi-
tecture was far behind that of the Con-
tinent, and that we would have to pull
our sox up; it turned out that what we
were behind in was plumbing, lighting,
conveniences and amenities of that sort,
which have nothing whatever to do with
architecture. In Europe architecture
seems to be in much the same state as it
is here, and a photo of a Moscow, Paris
or Helsinki building wouldn’t be much
different from a photo of a Melbourne
or Sydney building —which is not surpris-
ing. The modern emphasis is on comfort,
which is democratic; emphasis in the
Middle Ages was on beauty, which is
aristocratic. We can’t imagine Cesare
Borgia asking Leonardo da Vinci to
“I was wondering if your mother and I might have the car
tonight, son — it's our anniversary."
design him a comfortable palace, though
he might want a strong one in which to
defend himself against another despot.
What he and his contemporaries wanted
was magnificence, and monuments to
their individual glory. As a result they
got palaces which are still the wonders
of the world, although perhaps a trifle
draughty. Modern architects can
eliminate the draughts, but they don’t
seem to be able to reproduce the beauty.
Perhaps that is why they call a house “a
machine for living.”
“Which shape today, dear ?”
“Irving”: The stone-deaf churchgoer
(B. 20/8/’52) who claimed to hear the
pipe-organ through the soles of his feet
reminds me of an old Australian Flying
Corps man who contended that, with the
introduction of the parachute as standard
pilot-equipment, a valuable fdrewarning
of impending engine-trouble was lost to
those who flew the old Camels and S.E.S’s.
He claimed that the slightest variation of
engine rhythm was instantly detected by
the pilot’s posterior, thus alerting him to
coming mechanical failure. The
parachute-pack, which formed the pilot’s
seat, deadened the vibrations, thus
negativing the efficiency of the warning
apparatus. With a degree of seriousness
which I was never able to gauge, my
informant claimed that the fact that ex-
Light Horse types proved the best pilots
in 1914-19 was a result of the long years
in the saddle which made them sinewy
around the hindquarters and thus more
sensitive to the vibrations.
*** *X* »
“Alta”: Twelve months ago, after ten
years of saving, my wife and I at last had
the money that would, we thought, enable
me to change my job from manager of a
shop to owner of a shop. I visited whole-
salers seeking contacts with sellers. What
businesses they had on their lists were
poor or priced insanely high. In the
course of weeks of searching I had many
knockbacks. Typical of my experience—
one seller agreed, generously, to send his
wife to examine the rented house I
occupy. He would, he said, consider sell-
ing if his wife liked my house and they
could have tenancy. Ours is an above-
average bungalow in a fair suburb. We
spent hours preparing it for the visit. The
lady came. She was elaborately dressed
and spoke in overcultured tones. She
said “No” to the house with the air of a
duchess refusing to live in a humpy.
Humbled, I showed her to her waiting
car. Lately I have been trying again. I
visited a wholesaler. My reception was
different. “Wanting to buy a business?
Certainly. Have a cigarette. Sorry no
alcohol, but (ha! ha!) we’ll have a drink
later.” He bustled his staff and a typed
list of Businesses for Sale was placed on
the office-table. As I studied the list I
came upon the business owned by the
husband of the cultured lady. “That
one?” said my host, hovering behind me.
“Don’t really recommend it. Now look
at this and this! And here s
another”
+J+ ❖
“Nakhoda”: Perth seemed rather sur-
prised when its assistant-bishop con-
ducted a service in a private house in an
attempt to “lay a ghost.” Such cere-
monies are rare nowadays, though at
one time they were a regular part of a
priest’s daily round. Even in recent times
the casting-out of devils was an important
branch of the activities of missionaries in
China. On one occasion a missionary
freed four demon-possessed women and
one man from the devil’s chains at Autung
Ku, but this was nothing to the perform-
ance of a French missionary-bishop who
in 1862 drove the devils out of ten
villages in Shantung. The mere laying of
ghosts was left to the Taoist priests, who
charged a small fee for the service.
Greatest of all achievements in this direc-
tion was that of the Portuguese archbishop,
who exorcised all the were-tigers “n
Malaya. A were-tiger is a man who gets
up in the middle of the night, goes
into the jungle and, by means of a few
simple incantations, turns himself into
a tiger —a convenient shape for preying
on his neighbor’s chickens. The wife who
finds feathers on her husband’s mouth
when she wakes up in the morning knows
she has a were-tiger for a partner. She
usually keeps quiet about it, but on this
occasion the were-tigers were causing
a lot of trouble in Malacca, and the arch-
bishop was asked to do something about
it. There is some difference between
driving a devil out of a man and driving
a man out of a tiger, but the old Portu-
gee apparently fixed it, for now there are
no were-tigers in Malaya.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Eve”: When he chummed-up with
us at the trots he told us he was down
from Rockhampton (Q.) way. We asked
what he thought of Sydney. “It’s no
good,” he said. “Too hard to live here.
Why' you can only get an honest living
in Sydney if you’re a straight-out spiv.”
“Yair”: Someone has discovered that
Abraham Lincoln’s interest in the. aboli-
tion of slavery was due to a kick from a
horse. It appears that psychologists have
studied the great man’s portraits and dis-
covered a dent in the forehead, which
they consider was due to the hoof-whack
a horse once gave Lincoln. From this
they argue that the injury, to leave such
a dent, must have affected the man’s
brain to such an extent that a state of
profound melancholy would have resulted
unless he was fighting for someone’s
rights ; he picked on the slaves for his
mental tonic. Well, it just shows you. I
suppose if, instead of the horse kicking
Lincoln, Abe had kicked the horse the
United States would have continued “half-
slave, half-free” to the present day.
♦jt
“The Missus”: Far from being irri-
tated, as was “Stanford” (B. 3/9/’52), by
Nevil Shute’s constant use of the exple-
tive “My word,” I found myself wonder-
ing whether the author had met Old Jim,
a stockman of my acquaintance who
makes the phrase cover the whole range
of his emotions. He uses it to express
agreement, incredulity or doubt. He can,
by the merest inflexion, convey varying
shades of surprise or emphasis when
making a statement of any sort. Just the
same two words, but when Old Jim
speaks they take the place of many.
“Wakka”: That misplaced Queens-
land “but” (B. 3/9/’52) surely comes
from the German farming element in our
midst, and, like the commonly heard
“already yet,” has been jokingly adopted
by outback people. In the Darling
Downs district, where there is a consider-
able admixture of people of German
descent, I have often heard “Can I go
with ?” or “I brought it with,” omitting
the final pronoun.
♦> *t* *X*
“Bo”: The visiting golf pro’s chip-shot
had stopped about 3ft. from the pin.
Grimly he got down on his haunches be-
hind the ball, and his lining-up took fully
half a minute. Then he went to the other
side of the pin and studied the pill from
there. Not completely satisfied, he
took ocular shots from two other angles
before taking his stance. An intense
study of the sward between ball and cup
led to the discovery of a microscopic
loose grass-blade, and this was duly
removed. Finally, after another extended
session of distance-judging, he putted—
and missed. There came a gasp from
the crowd of local members banked
around the green, and over it the cheer-
ful voice of one of the club’s long-
markers: “Gosh! I could have missed
that in half the time!”
♦♦♦ ❖
“Chevroford”: A bridge and a short
section of the old outer-circle railway
in Kew, Melbourne, have been made into
a road, and the Kew Council has washed
its hands of it while the Country Roads
Board has forgotten its existence. Heavy
traffic wends its way tortuously between
gigantic potholes. At one end the council
has put up a notice “Dangerous —drivers
use this road at their own risk.” At the
other end an unofficial notice puts it
much more aptly: “Destination Moon
Mind the Craters.”
*x* *x* *x*
“Fairlead”: One of the regular mem-
bers of the gang when we went on “chop
picnics,” the big, beefy bloke was a
butcher and always supplied the chops
and sausages. The chops were
the sausages were something right “out
of the bag.” One of us remarked how
good they were. “Yeah,” quoth the
beefy one, “best y’ can buy get em
from a cove up the street from me. All
good meat, too, no rubbish and gristle.’
THE UNTHINKABLE
UNSINKABLE
“A British company has developed an ‘unsink-
able swimsuit’ with pads of buoyant spongy
material half an inch thick sewn into the waist.”
“Here’s a swimsuit you will love,
Unsinkable and chaste.
With half an inch of spongy stuff
Round the waist.
“Model it, O glamor-lass!
What could be finer ?
It will make you buoyant as
An ocean-liner.”
“O sir, I could not show the lads
Such a spare-tire !
But, tell me, why not place the pads
A little higher?
“Fancy is as light as air:
Men are ecstatic
According to, not how, but where,
One is pneumatic.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
BACK LANE
A ribald and unbuttoned air
Plays about on all things there:
Confidentially, the sly
Palings lean to the passer-by,
Where prancing in the wind are seen
The elements of Mrs. Green.
Opinions and underclothes are aired
In chalk, on clotheslines —secrets shared,
While he may easily read, who jogs.
The running commentary of dogs.
In a vacant lot paspalum breeds
With dock and nut-grass a slum of weeds;
In this neglected spot are laid
Memorials to the sly-grog trade ;
Night’s haunted by the ghosts of fish
And bursts of feline gibberish :
And on this compost, like a rose,
Fragrance of children s laughter blows.
N.S.W.
R. D. MURPHY.


“She never harps for new clothes , never answers back , she's
pleasant to the eye —so I'm perfectly happy.”
at his disposal were not sufficient for
Picasso to produce the effects he admired
in the great men, so he reacted to Cata-
lonian art and “new” forms. The forms
weren’t new at all, but the critics thought
they were, and they had only to become
fashionable for the critics to see all sorts
of mysterious beauties in them. In that
sense the artists and the critics have cer-
tainly had their legs pulled.
♦> *X* *>
“Ceg”: It depends, of course, on what
you call a “singer,” but surely “Cauboy”
is not correct when he says (B. 13/8/’52)
that Dorothy May nor is the first negro
singer of the feminine gender to sing in
Australia. I remember being taken to the
old Bijou theatre in Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, round about 1900 when one of
the turns was “Josephine Gassman and
her piccaninnies.” She used to sing
“Honey, stay in your own backyard,” as
a sort of admonition to the pics. What a
lot of trouble would have been avoided if
the world had heeded her advice. Then
again what about the Fisk Jubilee
“T.McN”: In B. 17/9/’52 “Quilliam-
street” notes that some freaks at Adelaide
Royal Show were advertised as being
“direct from the Sydney Royal Show,”
says the Sydney Show ended about six
months ago and wonders why they took
so long to come direct. The answer is
simple; They obviously travelled by
train.
♦♦♦ ♦*+
“Salty”: To landlubbers, a sickly-green
pallor is usually associated with seasick-
ness, but I once saw an admiral’s face
take on that hue when the ship was tied
up at the wharf. He stood majestically on
the bridge of a destroyer during his annual
visit watching the 'crew perform sundry
“evolutions,” The ship absolutely
gleamed and her crew were as smart as
buttons. The inspection was really going
well. A bosun’s pipe shrilled as the
bosun’s mate paraded the upper deck
bellowing the next exercise. “Weigh
kedge-anchor! ” The hands hurried to
their stations, guard-rails were released
and eager fingers began to unlash the
anchor. At that moment a stoker
appeared at the top of the ’midship
ladder, probably to see how things were
going. He watched the sand-scratchers
for a few moments as they fiddled with
the knots, then, whipping out a knife, he
strode across, pushed them aside with a
muttered “Don’t know about you blokes,”
cut the remaining lashing, lifted the
anchor bodily and threw it over the side.
If his action started the chameleon-like
change in the admiral’s pallor, it was the
fact that his own barge, lying alongside,
had received a direct hit, that completed
the metamorphosis!
♦ * *
My musical career. Many
years ago I bought a secondhand violin
for a fiver. The dealer told me it was a
splendid instrument; he’d be glad to buy
it back at any time. That night in my
diggings I sawed away for an hour or so
at “four-ups, four-downs,” What I got
out of that violin surprised me. Next
morning as I went out the landlady met
me in the hall. “You play a violin!” she
said. I told her modestly: “You haven’t
heard anything yet.” “Haven’t I?” she
snapped. “Me, the other tenants, and the
whole blasted street have heard all we
want. Cut it out, or get out!” Sadly I
took the instrument back to the dealer.
“Fifteen-bob,” he said. “But,” I pro-
tested, “I gave you a fiver for it.” “I
know,” he replied, “but selling’s different
to buying.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: What Picasso did say (B.
10/9/’52) was that the critics who divided
up his work into “Blue” and “Pink”
periods and so forth and differentiated
between them were barking up a wrong
tree —the change in forms didn’t indicate
a change in attitude at all, because the
quality of his line was still based on his
observation of Nature. The alleged fol-
lowers of Picasso don’t seem to realise
that he \Vas a relatively competent painter
in the tradition, and, like Matisse and
others, made a livelihood by copying Old
Masters in the Louvre. That requires
considerable skill—most moderns can’t
even copy their own pictures, let alone
anything as complex and subtle as a
Titian or a Rembrandt. The alia prima
technique and the amount of skill he had
“That's the TITLE of the picture.”
Singers? I seem to recall that they had
very good voices and they were not all
men.
♦♦♦ $> ❖
“Eastlake”: Add golfers to “Unga’s”
hardy sportsmen, if playing a game in
blinding fog is the criterion (B. 17/9/’52).
A couple of years ago, in Katoomba’s
(N.S.W.) gold-cup golfing carnival we hit
off in a Blue Mountains fog a dog
couldn’t bark in. Method was for the
four which had hit off to locate their
balls, then wait till the following four hit
and spot their balls as they came through
the white opaqueness. Some used caddies
for the spotting. It worked well enough
for reasonably straight shots, but a wild
slice or hook resulted in not only balls
but searchers getting lost. Before long
you’d come on two strangers in the fog,
ask them for the 12th fairway, be in-
formed you were probably on the ninth
and invited to direct them to the 11th.
On the 15th, a dog-leg over a j gully, one
four sent two small boys and a lass or
about 12 forward as spotters. Three balls
went straight enough into, the tog, me
fourth was cut and vanished where the
tip of a tall tree showed above the tog.
“By the tree! By the tree! howled Dad
into the fog. Silence. He shouted it
again. Then from out the swirl that hid
the gully came the sweet, exasperated
tones of his daughter: “What bloody
tree?”
♦> *
“0.G.”: Mention of Joe Cook missing
a dinner appointment with ‘‘ Ju PP
Gardiner through a misunderstanding (, .
3/9/’52) illustrates the difficulties of our
language. In Asia 1 told an illiterate off-
sider to light some furnaces “tomorrow
two a.m.” “You wanchee two a.m. mid-
night or two a.m. day-time?” he asked.
“Two a.m. midnight,” I told him. Every
politician, would have ridiculed my
order, but the job was done at the re-
quired time. Yet two lifelong lawmakers
couldn’t make it clear to each other what
time they were to meet for a meal. No
wonder our courts are kept busy intei-
preting the law from and to the language
in which it is made.
* ❖ *
“Zake”: Our local flea-hatchery had as
its supporting film a dreadful opus in
which Frankie Sinatra, looking.even more
cadaverous than usual, was cast as the
real tough yegg of the crooning industry
—a piece of humor that was as uncon-
scious as the audience wished the former
ace groaner had been right through the
proceedings. Came a sequence when the
pigeon-chested howler, fresh from evok-
ing admiring glances and wild applause
from the quarter-witted habitues of a
Hollywood nightclub, coming into his
dressing-room, belted his hefty accom-
panist on the back —an effort which
threatened to disintegrate the belter
jerked his tie loose and said “Boy —what
could / do with now!” as he looked
around for the non-existent decanter. “A
damn’ good feed, by the look of y’! ”
came from some overwrought soul in the
back stalls.
* ❖ ❖
“Curtain Raiser”; A few years ago the
Victorian Agricultural Society was per-
turbed over the question of wine-tasters,
the addiction *of modern youth to
sundaes and chemical concoctions having,
it was feared, affected the general palate
so that there was a danger of there being
no successors to the veterans who judge
the vintages every year. It was even
suggested that a school for wine-
tasters should be established. There
were, however, the usual experts looking,
sniffing, turning the beverage around the
palate and spitting it out on the sawdust
this year. Still, even the experts are not
immune from the psychological states
which Socrates described so aptly in his
famous example of the Socrates well and
the Socrates ill, and the wine which at
one time tasted sweet and at another
tasted sour. One expert strolled into a
fellow-vigneron’s emporium in Melbourne
just before Show week and was handed a
glass of port. “Well,” he said, after he
had sampled it, “ray palate may be out
of order, but I don’t think much of that
wine.” “You gave it first prize at the
last Sydney Show,” ,said the merchant.
“Fairf”: Every now and then some
misguided patriot hollers for another
national-anthem competition. I recall a
ripple from the last. Our schoolteacher
taught us the winning lyric: “Vast the
heritage we hold: league on endless
league unrolled; splashed with sun and
wattle gold, God’s demesne (he trans-
lated that to ‘domain’) Australia.” Next
he drilled the melody into us, got it note-
perfect, and modestly dropped the
information that the tune we’d learnt
was his own composition. He had sub-
mitted it to the competition, but the air
given the prize “went something like this”
—he hummed a few bars. Those shame-
less crawlers, “the tarts,” promptly
informed him that his tune was far better
than the one that got the prize. No doubt
their verdict did grand things for his ego,
but I’ve since wondered what his
successor thought about it. The new
fellow not only had to teach us a bogus
national anthem that politicians were
trying to foist on the people: he first had
to make us unlearn a bogus tune for it.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Brick E.”; Far from being a new
American idea (B. 10/9/’52), lime-and-
sand bricks were known in N.S.W. more
than 30 years ago. Many were used in
a wall around the outer perimeter of
Long Bay Jail, and a wing of the near-by
Prince Henry Hospital was built with the
unorthodox bricks. Just before World
War II I was interested enough to
examine closely a wall in the hospital.
The years and weather had not fretted
the bricks nor produced any structural
flaws, but the wall had become a dirty
grey color. Presumably the bricks were
not a sound commercial proposition, since
they vanished from the building scene
completely and did not even attempt a
comeback during the now-ended brick
famine, when anything that remotely
resembled a brick found a horde of eager
buyers.
❖ ❖
“Cauboy”: An English university pro-
fessor claims to have found in South
Africa a contemporary portrait of Shak-
speare with bright expressive eyes and
adorned with earrings. Only three por-
traits exist which have some claim to be
regarded as genuine likenesses of the poet.
One is the bust in Stratford Church by
Gerard Janssen, a stonemason, and it
was put in the church within seven years
of the Bard’s death; the others are an
engraving for the title-page of the First
Folio and a painting from which the en-
graving may have been made. All three
suggest that the artists had somebody
unusual before them, but the scores of
other graven images of the Bard are, to
quote Masefield, “perhaps passable por-
traits of the languid, half-witted hydro-
cephalic creatures who made them.”
PASSING THE BUCK
“The impact of heredity on character and
ability is a fascinating study, says a scientific
writer, the surface of which has barely been
scratched.”
On this I ponder now and then:
I am the essence of a herd,
Some hundreds strong, of women and
men
Who, it may fairly be inferred,
Contained perhaps a saint or two
And certainly a host of sinners.
Some who had riches; others who
Had far more dinner-times than
dinners.
In such a motley crew there must
Have been the shrewd heads and the
goats;
Some who no doubt had earned a crust
By breaking heads and slitting throats.
I hope there were some brilliant ones,
Others long-lived, strong as a hippo.—
And then bobs up a thought that stuns—
One of them could have been a
Gyppo!
For who knows whence, long back, we
came ?
What races in us all are fused ?
Our lineage, whether wild or tame,
Can part be praised and part accused.
Sometimes when, atavistic lly,
I kick the cat that haunts our villa
I feel one ancestor could be
One of the Huns of bold Attila.
In me there must be urges to
Batter and pet, thieve, help, dictate,
Cringe, loaf, work hard —in fact, a stew
Of egos in my addled pate.
Well, if some vital spark I lack.
Something, perhaps, I’m not expert in,
I know that I can trace it back
To some boneheaded coot, that’s
certain.
N.S-W.
S.W.K.


KLG
SPARKING PLUGS
WITH
‘CORUNDITE*
INSULATION
f
S. SMITH & SONS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
UOB6
TO
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagb
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
M. 0. ALDER. Gen. Manager.
Make BUTTONHOLES on YOUR OWN
SEWING MACHINE
ADJUSTABLE T ype
BUTTONHOLE and Bartack
ATTACHMENT By Stitchmaster
Models Suitable for MANUFACTURING MACHINES
& HOUSEHOLD MACHINES.
Price, Including Sales Tax, £l3/5/-
Guaranteed in Writing:
Distributed by
HEAFIELD SEWING MACHINE SERVICE,
19 Warner Avenue, Ashburton, 5.E.11, Vic.
NOTE. —When writing state type of machine
PROMPT ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
Send cheque, money order or postal note.
Be*. Mail: Vic., 2/6; Tas., N.S.W. and S.A., S/9; Qld. and W.A., 4/3.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Next in line for Korean battle-
experience, Lieut.-Colonel M. Austin
relieves Lieut.-Colonel I. Hutchison in
command of the Ist Australian Royals.
Taking with him considerable battle-
experience from the Middle East and
New Guinea, Austin is 35. He’s a son-in-
law of Dame Enid Lyons.
Prior hereunder outlines the face of the
senior statesman of Orange (N.S.W.), a
fair and charming Tablelands city now
about to celebrate its annual cherry-
blossom festival. Arthur Colvin started
practice in Orange in 1913 with
Neville Howse, later knight, general
and V.C. That partner’s character
is best indicated by the notice Colvin
found written on the whereabouts-slate
in their surgery on return from a sick-
call the day War I broke out : “I’ve gone
to the war. You can do what you
well like with the practice.” Colvin fol-
lowed his partner, to serve as a gas-officer
in the Ist Australian Division in France,
under Colonel Blarney, then G.5.0.l of
the division, and to win M.C. at Pozieres.
After a period in India Colvin settled
back in Orange as an eye-specialist,
to hold down the mayoralty for
DOWN FROM ORANGE
eight years and to establish a
reputation for driving competence
m the job. He organised the first gas
and bulk electricity for Orange, the first
base hospital in N.S.W. there, the pro-
vision of the first ambulance, helped found
the Canobolas Club, led in the move
which acquired historic Duntryleague for
the Orange Golf Club, and put his con-
siderable weight behind the then-infant
Far-West Children’s Scheme. In War II
responsible for the allocation of all
medical personnel to the Army, he was
later medical adviser to the manpower
directorate. With an energy unim-
paired at 69, Dr, Colvin was put
under the pencil when down in Sydney
for the opening sitting today of the Upper
House, of which he’s been a member for
just under 20 years.
Anyone wanting to see outback Aus-
tralia on show in the grand style can go
to Denver City—in five years’ time. There
will be giant dioramas depicting the
North Queensland jungle, treefern
gullies, complete with lyrebirds, wallabies
and parrots, emus traipsing the Never
Never and seals basking on Julia Percy
Island —all due to the intense enthusiasm
for this country of Dr. Alfred Bailey,
director of Denver’s Museum of Natural
History. Now in Melbourne, Dr. Bailey
has already covered some of his beat, but
has still to visit the Pelsart Islands (where
marsupials were first seen by white men),
Broome and Mrs. Gunn’s Elsey station.
“Tandan”; A South Australian whose
unacknowledged likeness has been appear-
ing in the world Press in recent weeks is
John East, who, after War II service in
the R.A.A.F., went to the U.K., obtained
a university degree, and is now engaged
in radar research there. East appeared
in photographs of the Farnborough
disaster, busy at one end of a stretcher
helping wounded into ambulances.
“Jets, jets, jets,” is all that Aubrey Oates
and Douglas Swain have heard since the twain
announced their entry in the U.K.-N.Z. air-race
with a Mosquito. Oates (“Titus,” naturally)
has more than enough faith in the wonder plane
of War II —he having been a test-pilot of the
breed during it. Swain, also, can still fly a
Mossie at a pinch—he having piloted one in
the Pathfinder Force over Germany. Now a
nuggety 30, airborne since 1938, Oates was a
squadron-leader in the war-time R.A.A.F., and
won an immediate award of D.F.C. on a mid-
night party over Rabaul in 1943. Piloting a
Beaufort, with the rest of his flight at 12,000 ft.,
Oates bore in at mast-height to plant his
explosive cargo in an 8000-ton Jap transport.
Swain landed his D.F.C. while landing a block-
buster, per Mosquito, on a headquarters block
in Wurtzburg, to which city much of Berlin’s
administrative functions had been shifted.
Marine and aerial navigators know well
enough the advantage of pursuing a Great Circle
course. Oates plans to fly to Basra (the only
compulsory stop in the race), and thence a
Great Circle course to New Zealand. On the
score of jet competitors he is soberly enthusiastic
about the Mosquito’s chances—jets, through
refueling needs, being unable to fly the Great
Circle course. And Oates has himself flown a
Mosquito at better than 500 m.p.h., and has
got 5000 miles out of one without refuelling.
Jets will need to touch-down every 2000 miles.
The adventurous pair—Oates from Campbell-
town, Swain from Camden (both N.S.W.) —
will take delivery of their plane today at
Archerfield, near Brisbane, knock off its cocoon
and fly it to Sydney.
Of Australian pioneer stock on both
sides, Kenneth Lord, new Victorian
manager of Shaw, Savill in Melbourne,
was born at Lautoka, Fiji, and reared in
Sydney. He joined the shipping line in
time to do a few years’ service before
War II drew him into the R.AI.A.F.
Transferred in 1940 to the famed 10
Sunderland Squadron of Coastal Com-
mand, he had three years therein, coming
home a squadron-leader. After a period
„ with the Air Member for Supply and
Equipment at R.A.A.F, headquarters,
he rejoined his old firm and coursed
through the jobs of chief-clerk and as-
sistant-manager to his present position.
Having shared the chairmanship of the
Australian Board of Control for interna-
tional cricket for the past 25 years,
Sydneysider Robert Oxlade reckons he’s
had a fair enough innings in the post.
It’s been a sound innings ; his character
and methods rank high in the cricket
world, bringing him a C.B.E. in 1934
for his services to the game. Now 66, a
of Manly Cricket Club for the
past 40-odd years, he has batted on the
game’s administrative side since 1913;
and has been secretary and treasurer of
the Australian board as well as chairman.
Relieving him, Roy Middleton, of
Adelaide, as well as ,25 years of board-
membership, owns to a practical wrinkle
or two in his bag—he played for S. Aus-
tralia in five Sheffield Shield matches.
Oxlade is a solicitor, Middleton a trust-
company manager.
This name —Rev. Philip Thomas Byard
Clayton, chaplain to the Queen, chaplain
of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co., chaplain of
the Port of London Authority—might
mean nothing to Old Diggers ; add the
appellation “Tubby” and it will ring a
bell. The M.C.-winning padre who
founded Toe H on the Ypres salient in
1915, h© landed in Perth the other
day on a three-months tour of Ausr
tralian Toe H branches. He lists his
recreation as seafaring; in War II he
indulged it to the tune of thousands of
convoy-miles, first as a chaplain with the
Anglo-Saxon tanker-fleet, and later in the
Indian Ocean and Mediterranean with
the Merchant Navy. Born on a station
outside Bundaberg (Q.) 66 years ago,
“Tubby” went to Oxford. He has
toured pretty well world-wide on Toe H
business.
It’s not generally known that John
Eggington, the young Melbourne organist
who leapt to the forefront in England
and Europe and then came back to Aus-
tralia to give his own people a taste of
his talent, did it on his own hook.
Haying spent several fruitless months
trying to find a sponsor amongst the big
musical organisations in his hometown,
he finally hired the Town Hall at his
own expense and gave a recital. Two-
hundred were expected; 2000 turned up.
They got a magnificent performance, few
of them aware that they had it on the
musician’s bounty—the performance
being advertised as a free lunch-time
concert, the same as used to be given by
the City Council.
Surfaced long enough for Heth to get
him down on paper, Lieut.-Commander
Howard Clutterbuck, captain of H.M.
submarine Thorough, one of the British
brood exercising with the R.A.N.’s anti-
submarine craft. The skipper’s father
also had connections with submarines—
he was executive officer of Hermione, one
of Vian’s cruisers in the War II Mediter-
ranean, when she drove her stem into a
surfaced Itie submarine. Young Clutter-
buck, in service-blue since 1939, was in
cruiser Exeter early in the war, but left
her a few days before she was sunk in
the tail-end of the Java Sea battle. He
picked submarines because of the
camaraderie of small ships, and was in
Turpin when she sighted a friendly junk
in the Malacca Strait. The “friendly”
approached a bit close; Turpin dived,
and was followed by asdic pings and a
shoal of depth-charges. Getting out of
that, she next sighted, in the same* area,
a Jap cruiser escorted by three destroyers.
Turpin loosed eight torpedoes, three of
which hit the cruiser, Clutterbuck,
torpedo-officer, gained D.S.C. His father
had been one-time first-lieutenant of
Australian destroyer Vampire, The first
time young Clutterbuck saw Vampire
was when, detailed to organise a recep-
UP FROM OCEAN
tion-party, he watched her come along-
side in Singapore with survivors from
the Prince of Wales and Repulse disaster.
After the war Thorough’s skipper was
given the job of vetting the film-script of
John Mills’s “Morning Departure.” As
is to be expected of a submariner,
Clutterbuck is a quietly-spoken, modest
officer with a wholly personal power of
command.
In Brisbane next week Dr. Jack
Elkington (here presented) is due for an
81st birthday. Son of a former Professor
of History at Melbourne University—
where Jack was polished young
Elkington specialised in public health and
tropical medicine in Edinburgh and
Glasgow. He put precept into practice
during the plague in Melbourne at the
turn of the century; did the same in the
Punjab, and worked for a time at the
Imperial Research Laboratory in Bombay.
Back this way in time to help combat a
smallpox outbreak in Tasmania, he had
his work recognised by being appointed
chief medical-officer for Tassie. For
PARS AND PLAGUES
five years after leaving there he was
Commissioner of Public Health in
Queensland, ending as Director of
Tropical Hygiene. Elkington has
been a prolific paragraphist for The
Bulletin, but his best service to the
paper goes back to 1901, when he took a
set of Norman Lindsay Decameron illus-
trations to J. F. Archibald, who promptly
asked Jack to persuade the young artist
to join The Bulletin. Jack still holds
Norman’s telegram, leaving acceptance of
the offer to him ; as well he holds a rare
collection of Lindsay’s early work.
Both he and Norman married sisters, and
he delivered Norman’s first son. Jack.
Periodically some limbless Diggers
suffer all that anyone would feel if an
actual limb was violently contracted.
They are very painful symptoms, and all
the belief in the world that the limb is no
longer there won’t dispel them in the
slightest. The malady is called “phantom
limb.” The blessing of all Diggers so
afflicted will go with Keith Bradley, the
noted Melbourne neuro-surgeon, who is
on his way to Britain, Europe and the
U.S. to try to discover a cure. For the
past two years Bradley, engaged by the
Services’ Canteen Trust Fund, has been
researching into treatment for the pain.
Into the Silence :
In Sydney, Gilbert Edward Phillips, whose
main memorials, apart from a distinguished
reputation in neuro-surgery, are the department
of that science at R.P.A. and the Northcott
Neurological Centre for ex-Diggers in Sydney.
Lecturer in surgery at Sydney University for
many years, he was commissioned flight-
lieutenant in the R.A.A.F. early in War 11, and
later was in charge of the surgical section at
the military hospital for head injuries at Oxford.
At Balclutha (N.Z.), at 76, F. Waite,
journalist, soldier, politician and historian.
Journalism took in a staff job on the Otago
“Daily Times”; soldiering, Gallipoli, D.S.O.
and lieut.-colonelcy; politics, six years rep-
resenting Clutha, followed by a period in the
Legislative Council; history, the writing of
the official story of Enzedders on Gallipoli.
A C.M.G. came his way in 1946.
At Bringelly (N.S.W.), at 89, Frederic Charles
West, the oldest active farmer in the district,
in which he settled more than 60 years ago.
He served in World War I.
At 81, in Melbourne, Norman Mac George,
artist. Born in Adelaide, he studied at the
National Gallery in Melbourne, went to Europe
in 1930, came back with a modernist outlook
and was the second president of the Australian
Art Association. He wrote The Arts in Aus-
tralia and The Borovansky Ballet in Australia
and New Zealand.


TROUT SEASON


ABORIGINALITIES
“Macquarie”: Allow me to point out
a fine distinction to “Old Bushman” (B.
3/9/’52). A “bower-bird” can be a “tea-
leaf,” it’s true, but the. terms are not
synonymous. I plead guilty to being a
species of the former, but—provided my
accuser were puny enough—would hotly
resent being dubbed a tea-leaf. An
authentic “bower-bird” picks up, collects,
hoards and gloats over various scraps of
junk that sensible people realise are
utterly useless; a “tea-leaf” will half-inch
anything around the Gert-and-Grace that
he can lay his foreign-strands on.
* * * *
“Chink”: Recent findings in these
pages that the call of an Australian dove
suggests that of a cuckoo are a trifle
ambiguous—they overlook the fact that
this land contains three species of doves
and about 14 kinds of cuckoos. What’s
more, voices among doves vary consider-
ably, and among cuckoos they range
from an insect-like chirrup to an appal-
ling scream. The usual proclamation of
the bar-shouldered dove is a lusty “Hop-
off, hop-off,” hence the name applied to
it by central Queensland youngsters:
“hop-off bird,” Called also mangrove-
dove, the bar-shoulder is common along
the sub-tropical coast, and bobs up again
in the scrubs of the sub-interior, where
it becomes the scrub-dove. Incidentally,
this variation in habitat —from waterside
mangroves or other coastal forests to the
dry scrubs of the inland —is a curious
development with several species of
birds.
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: About two and a half
miles south of Gerroa (N.S.W.), along the
renowned Seven-mile Beach, an body with
a reasonably tough-skinned heel and no
strong aversion to getting a wet seat
from a sudden big-’un could once fill a
kero.-tin with pippies within half an hour.
Alas, those days are as good as over.
An American syndicate has discovered
“I'm thinking of having a veranda built on this end.”
the piscine bonanza and is doing it over
on a grand scale. No heel-and-finger
methods there now: mechanised equip-
ment ensures that every pipi in the
vicinity will be caught. And the ultimate
destination of the catch? No; not
Yankee fish-hooks —the American table!
I’ve long argued that pippies should be
both edible and appetising, but never
suspected the “clam” which crops up so
often in American books is the same
shellfish. No doubt the doings on the
Seven-mile will provide many a tasty
snack for American citizens; it is not
quite so appetising to think that the local
authorities have tried to prevent the
pippies from being completely annihilated
—and found that nobody has the power
to do anything about it.
“Kros”; Can’t say whether “Fairf” is
right in thinking his blue-breasted, blue-
eyed budgerigar is blind (B. 10/9/’52),
but can assure him that, if it is, its eye-
color would have nothing to do with its
blindness. Nor would the color be a
reflection of the plumage. The color of
the eye is the color of one of its parts —
the iris, the diaphragm or curtain sus-
pended in front of the lens, and per-
forated by the pupil, through which light
enters the eye. There are many causes
of blindness ; diseases affecting every part
of the eye can impair vision or destroy
sight completely. But blindness does not
alter or affect eye-color ; nor are those
blind from birth confined to any one
shading. These remarks apply not only
to the eyes of man but to those of all the
other vertebrates: the eyes of animals
and birds (of vertebrates, that is) are built
on the same essential plan as man’s.
Incidentally, experiments have shown that
birds can’t see blue or violet, though able
to make out colors at the other end of
the spectrum. Their sight, however, is
usually very good.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: Pedro was a big, slow-
moving, slow-spoken half-caste, prob-
ably half-Spanish, product of some casual
encounter in one of the pearling towns
on Westralia’s nor’-west coast. He looked
as if he’d never been known to hurry, but
his colored cobbers, as we watched him
slouch along the jetty, told me of one
occasion when he’d turned on a burst of
speed. One of the crew of a pearling-
boat operating in Shark Bay, during a
spell ashore in Denham he had become
enamored of a lady of equally jumbled
parentage. Unfortunately she was the
consort of one Freddy, also a pearler
but in another boat. Pedro could have
grabbed the charmer and bolted with-
out a great deal of censure, except
from Freddy, but for the fact that in
Denham there isn’t any place to which
one can bolt, the town being simply a
row of houses along a beach on a long,
narrow, sandy peninsula. However,
learning from his Helen that Freddy's
boat had gone to sea and would be two
or three days on the banks, Pedro did
what many another man has done. And,
like many another man, he found it the
wrong thing to do. Waking (not in his
own bed), he found he was looking along
the barrel of a pistol, and behind it was
Freddy. As Pedro looked the hammer
fell —and missed-fire. Pedro sprang up,
as the pistol clicked again he flung him-
self out the window, to the screams from
the femme fatale and imprecations from
Frederick. Pedro landed in the red sand,
running. Freddy, his faith in firearms
tattered but still not entirely gone, flung
himself across the bed for one last —and
this time successful—yank at the trigger.
But when the smoke from the sub-nosed
old .45 cleared away Pedro was still run-
ning, and, as he later told my informant,
"Y* know, I reckon that bullet keep up
with me for two or three yards!” I
took another look at Pedro. I couldn’t
believe that I reckon it passed him in
the first 2ft.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Old-timer”: Little Curl, who was
never short of theories, evolved one that
it would be cheaper and far less trouble
to ride a bike to town (five miles). The
way he saw it, a horse had to be caught,
saddled, ridden, a stall and feed paid for
in town, and on return the prad had to be
unsaddled and turned into the horse-
paddock. With a bike you simply rode it
in, leaned it against a post and it waited
for you to ride it back. What’s more, a
bike never shied or balked and wasn't
likely to get out of the stall and clear for
home before you were ready. So L.C,
bought a bike. For a month or two he
had it all over the horsemen. One Satur-
day, after everybody had got to town, a
big thunderstorm dropped about an inch
of rain. That night Big Fleming was
riding his colt home when, in the middle
of a black-soil flat, he came on Little
Curl. The gluey mud made it impossible
either to ride or lead the bike, and Curl
was carrying it. “Well, by, cripes, Curl,
y’ was right, after all,” Fleming declared.
“If a man’s flarrjjn’ prad broke down he’d
never be able t’ hump it home like that! ”
* * * *
“Cisticola” : If those Abo.-writers who
criticise the bushmanship of the Aus-
tralian native would get in touch with
old-time explorers (through the medium
“ They're overdoing this streamlining !"
of their journals) they would have their
ideas readjusted. Diaries of the kind
contain numerous tributes to the path-
finding skill of the men whom some
adventurers termed their “sable com-
panions.” For example, John Gilbert was
much impressed, during the first Leich-
hardt expedition of 1844-45, by the skill
of a semi-civilised native named Charlie.
On one occasion when the two were out
together Gilbert proposed to follow a
river (the Isaac) back to camp in heavy
darkness; but the abo. said he could
make cuts by night as well as by day,
and he did that very efficiently, without
moon or stars to guide him. “He not
only cut off the principal angles of the
river,” says Gilbert, “but would tell me
when we were approaching any remark-
able spot. In making a cut across the
angle where some natives were camped,
he observed half a mile off that we must
be approaching that part of the river, and
in a few minutes we saw their fires.”
* * * *
“Emel”: I thought I knew all the
aliases of the pied grallina, that dapper,
dauntless little black-and-white bird
known in Victoria as peewee or peewit
(from its call), mudlark —it builds a neat
cup-nest of mud lined with feathers —or
magpie-lark because of its likeness to the
larger pied warbler. But in the south-
east of South Australia, where I have
seen one attack and put to flight a crow,
I find it has the additional monicker of
Murray magpie, and also rainbird,
because its loud calling is said to foretell
rain.
* * * *
“Three Wheeler”: The two university
students took the rams off our hands
when we got to the Thirty-mile bore,
then invited us to their hut for a brew of
tea. Working between terms, they’d taken
on the boundary-riding to get a purse
together. The hut didn’t look at all dif-
ferent from any of the score of others
I’d seen, save for the fishing-rod racked
above the fireplace —it stood out like a
neon sign. The reel was an angler’s
dream, complete with ratchet, brake and
clutch, and enough drum to hold 500yds.
of young hawser. The sight of that tackle
300 miles from the coast aroused my
curiosity. They told me then how they
indulged in their respective sports of
hunting and fishing. The hunting cove
had sent to the city for an archery set,
became proficient at it, then he and his
cobber collaborated. Tying the line on
to the head of an arrow they’d lurk at a
waterhole at sundown till a euro or an
emu came in to drink. Sagittarius would
then sink a shaft into the quarry and
fisherboy would play him. Best catch
they’d grassed up till then had been a
yearling steer on a piece of clothes-line.
* * * *
“Betcha”: In the distance Steve was
leaning on a fence-post waving his arms
occasionally and bawling. Buff turned in
that direction. As he approached, Steve
raised his head towards the left. “Fetch
’em on, Boong,” he called. Then to the
right he raised an arm. “Go way, Nigger,
Go wa-a-y ” Satisfied, he turned to the
empty ridge behind, glared at it a
moment, then “Steady there, you. Sid-
down, he bellowed. Several times in the
next 10 minutes he repeated the orders ;
then the dog on the left drew close with
his small bunch of sheep. “Back there,
Boong. Speak up.” Steve heaved him-
self off the post and looked for the second
dog. “Fetch ’em. Nigger. O-ver-r.
Come over.” He waved an arm, then
turned again to the back ridge. “Steady,
you,” he bawled. “Steady, I said. Sid-
down.” The ridge looked obediently still,
till presently over the top raced a few
jumbucks at top speed. A short pause,
then a couple of hundred more surged
over and charged hell-bent down the
slope, while in their wake cantered a big
mong, tongue lolling and well pleased
with himself. “Gripes,” delivered Buff.
“Must be pretty hard to work a muster-
ing dog when you can’t see him.” “Not
this’n,” mourned Steve, and raised his
voice again for his cracked-record order:
“Steady there, you. Steady. Steady. Sid-
down.”
* * * *
“Neerim”: There were six of us in the
car heading for Sale (Vic.), two motor-
mechanics, three old-time horsemen, one
unfortunate neutral. All the way to
Nilma (20 miles) the conversation was
greasy battery-terminals, dirty spark-
plugs, crook generators, big-ends, valves,
crown-wheels and pinions. Then the
horses took over, They bucked, twisted,
reared and fell, won races and jumped
fences all the way to Rosedale, where
we stopped for refreshment. Back in the
car again it was harness-horses, kickers,
biters, bolters and strikers. Then Neutral
in a quiet voice asked if the car could
stop. “Sure,” said the driver. “Want to
get out?” “No,” said Neutral. “Just
want to let some of these flaming horses
out before we get kicked or trampled to
death.” *
* * * *
“Dabenc”; Those Straitsmen who kid-
napped Tasmanian gins (B. 3/9/’52)
carried their enslaved mistresses the
whole distance of the southern coast of
the continent, and often deserted them
for females stolen from the mainland. In
1827 Lockyer made a report in which he
urged that measures be taken to control
the “set of pirates” who went from
island to island along the southern coast,
from Rottnest to Bass Strait, and had
their “chief resort or den at Kangaroo
Island.” Unwanted women were clubbed
and thrown into the sea, but some of the
Tasmanian gins survived on Kangaroo
Island beyond the date of official white
settlement, and Kangaroo Islanders con-
tend that Truganina was not the last ot
the Tasmanoid race to die, but that
several of the abducted gins were stiff
going strong on the island after her death
in 1879.
"Rocky Ayers”: Tired and dusty I
pulled up at the only pub in the little
township and asked for accommodation.
Bung, a hearty fellow in trousers and
singlet, and with a tort-
night’s stand of beard,
winked broadly at his few
similarly-clad customers.
"Why, certainly,” he said
jovially. “Only the very
best. All amenities, good
grub and hot and cold
water.” I looked sur-
prised. “Hot water. I
exclaimed incredulously.
“My oath we have, he
said emphatically. You
get under the shower m a
mid-February day when the u^hroom
galvanised-iron roof o the
and I’ll guarantee it’ll damn near
scald y’!”
THE FARMER STUMBLING
The farmer stumbling in the furrow
Ignores the anger of the dust;
Observes the bunny’s scuttling fear,
And gently smiles as lone men must;
Reaching the briered slope, to rest
His horse where lean gum-shadows drop,
Tilts back his hat and wipes his brow,
And views sun-time and hope of crop.
He knows the wisdom of stark bone,
The treachery of singing rain,
The ache beneath the turning sod,
The strength that swells the bluebell’s vein.
His knowledge lies beyond the brain,
Within the soil where all things climb:
His steady amble up the slope
Is one with toil and peace and time.
N.S.W.
E. CEE.


“Howie Wing”: Had to laugh at
“Gulliver’s” chap who found his much-
vaunted home town so different from
what he had cracked it up to be (B.
20/8/’52), but how he could describe
Wagin (W.A.) as cool, green-grassed and
well-watered has got me beat. A child-
hood memory of Collie, 80 miles coast-
ward and 20in. wetter, is the long trains
of water-tanks that used to pull out from
there to Wagin, even in the middle of
the rainy winter. Later, as a cow-farmer
in the same locality, I often admired the
wide, open spaces out Wagin way, much
as the Wagin man prized the bigness of
the north. In turn, I sometimes heard
poultrymen and market-gardeners marvel
at the expanse of my paddocks.
* * * *
“G.J.P.”: Having just completed
an aerial tour over the Centre,
I believe some at least of our
inland lakes are the result of sub-
sidences, particularly in the region
west and south-west of Alice Springs.
At Mt. Hermannsburg the stratification is
on a horizontal plane, but as one goes
south-westward towards Ayer’s Rock and
Mt. Olga the earth has been heaved and
distorted into fantastic forms, apparently
by an earthquake in some bygone age.
Ayer’s Rock itself is actually not a rock
but a sedimentary mountain rising out of
a mulga-and-spinifex plain. Distance
around it is approximately five miles and
it’s over 1000 ft. high, the stratification
distinctly vertical, indicating that it has
probably been heaved up and rolled over,
thus contributing to the presence of Lake
Amadeus, which lies between the Rock
and Haast’s Bluff. Here again much dis-
tortion of the strata is apparent, and salt-
marshes occur in the locality. Inci-
dentally, the Macdonnell Ranges appear
to be residual ramparts rather than hills,
being composed of sharp conglomerate,
suggesting that their tops may have been
ancient river- or lake-beds whose water
contained silica, which on hardening
rendered them more impervious to
erosion than the surrounding country.
Brooks, in his book I Saw a Strange Land,
gives a wonderful description of the south-
west of the territory. It surely is a
strange land.
* * $ $
“Wilpa Wilpa”: Misspelling of the
name of Kennedy’s aboriginal com-
panion (B. 3/9/’52) may have evolved
from attempts to differentiate him from
another lackey lackey, “the gentleman
bushranger,” whose real name was Wil-
liam Westwood, and who was hanged on
Norfolk Island when he was 26. William
Landsborough had an aboriginal com-
panion named Jacky on his exploratory
work while searching for Burke and Wills
—one of three native troopers who
accompanied him. Jacky does not seem
to have been as active as the other two.
Jemmy and Fisherman, and his most not-
able appearance in Landsborough’s
journal is when he killed two snakes.
“He got a harmless bite for his pains,
but satiated his revenge by discussing the
reptiles at supper.”
* * * ♦
“G.G.2”: Brumby stallions have an
etiquette about taking a mob of mares
to and from water. Going in, his Nibs
leads the way. That is also logical; the
mares are thirsjty and aren’t likely to
stray ; also in the lead he can meet any
rival stallions coming out from water ;
an instinctive rule among wild things is
that danger lurks at waterholes. Going
out from the water, however, the stallion
takes the rear. There is also reason in
this. He is thus in a good position to
round-up those which may be inclined
to stray.
* * *
“Dune”; It would take a lot to con-
vince me that the abo. actually sends
messages by smoke-signals (B. 10/9/’52)
—he has no alphabet or written
language; the way we have spelled his
words is merely by phonetics. In the first
place, the signaller would have to cope
with up- and down-draughts and cross-
winds, any of which would cause the
most carefully-sent signals to go awry.
Most likely the smoke is sent up to advise
others of the tribe that they have com-
pany close by, and the fact that the sig-
nals are broken is a safeguard that the
receiver will know that they are man-
made and not the result of a stray fire.
The drum-signals of the African natives
are in an entirely different category—
sound can actually convey by certain
inflections and tempo something
approaching speech.
* * * *
“Vet”: We were renewing the divid-
ing-fence, and, nearing Robbie’s house.
“ Don't give Joe any more —he thinks he's a poker-machine."
I discovered we were a post short, and
asked him if he knew of one handy.
“Yes, there’s a good’n near my wood-
heap,” he answered. “I’ll run it round on
the tractor.” My mild protest that I
could shoulder it across in a minute was
immediately overruled. “Oh, it’ll be no
trouble,” he declared. “The trailer is all
hitched. Be back in a mo’.” He strode
off, tinkered with the tractor, tried the
starter half a dozen times and found the
battery was flat. He called a kid, then
the missus, and, after a lot of pushing and
no result, decided to get out his car and
tow the tractor to the nearest slope. Even-
tually the tractor-engine kicked over, and
there followed a run to warm her up,
“ Aren’t men fickle? He used to wave to us once.”
after which she coughed and died on an
empty petrol-tank. Robbie pumped a
tinful, carried it to the machine and
again got it started. Then through two
gates to the woodheap to load the post, a
Spot of trouble in a bog-hole, then a run
to the front road, a half-mile trip to the
paddock-opening and Robbie at length
returned to the line with the post. “There
y’ are,” he declared proudly. “That's a
lot easier, isn’t it? That’s mechanisation
for y’.”
i' * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: No, we never ran into
“Macquarie’s” Alf (B. 17/9/’52), though
he was probably there in our time ; must
have been if they were still dipping
sultanas in hot caustic lye. I’m told the
blockers gave the hot dip away long ago.
And I’m a bit puzzled about wheat-
cockies wanting rain in January and
February, which are the picking months,
whereas Mallee wheat is seldom sown
before May, and, in that light country,
the ideal time for seeding rain is late
March and April.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had never
kept track of the time by any method
but a glance at the sun, until he found
the tinny old watch in the box of tools
he’d bought at a secondhand sale. At
first he regarded the timepiece contemptu-
ously, then, when he discovered it would
tick, his interest grew until at length he
consulted it on every unreasonable occa-
sion. It wasn’t long before the sun
developed unreliable traits. Seventyfiver
ignored it, returning to the hut at unex-
pected hours for meals, but he couldn’t
prevent the days lengthening in a surpris-
ing manner. “It’s the seasons is changin’,
that’s what it is, Sol,” he told me.
“Gripes, if a bloke had no way o’ keepin’
track of ’em he’d never be sure o’
nothin’.” “Well, we must be sure of
getting those cattle otf the back range
this week,” I mentioned firmly. “I’m
taking a bunch into town, so I’ll short-
cut and meet you at the range-hut Wed-
nesday midday.” At the appointed time
I arrived at the hut, ate and waited for
the old bloke. He didn’t come. On the
following morning there was still no sign
of him, and, a trifle uneasy, I began mus-
tering. Midday brought me in a circle
back to the hut where I fed and was
saddling for a restart when Seventyfiver
rode in. “Where the hell y’ been?” I
greeted indignantly. “You should have
got here yesterday.” “Yair?” His head
nodded apologetically. “Y’ know, I ’ad
a sort o’ feelin’ I was a bit late, Sol,”
he explained, “but the trouble was me
flamin’ watch stopped.”
* * * *
“Pinkie Bend”; Strange how one can
live in a place for years and never notice
its most prominent features. In Sydney,
far from my old Murray home, I spotted
in an art-shop window a large picture of
gum-trees entitled “Valley Gums,
Mildura.” They were Murray gums, all
right, but what got me was the range
of blue hills in the background. In ail
my years in Mildura the highest hill I ever
sighted was the railway embankment
above the town pump. It just shows what
eating sultanas does to the eyes.
* * * *
“Adel”: Salt lakes (B. 3/9/’52) form
because they lie in basins from which
there is no outlet to the sea. The mineral
matter leached from the land cannot get
away, and the water gradually becomes
saline. Salinity is increased all the more
rapidly where the evaporation-rate is
high. This was one of the many factors
left out of calculations by those who
supported the scheme to run a canal from
the sea at Port Augusta tq Lake Eyre.
Had it been possible to create a flow of
sea-water into the lake it would have been
only a century or so before the lake
would have been a solid cake of salt,
with its surface at sea-level.
* * * *
“Dolmetcher” (N.Z.) notes that they
have been welcomed back to “the comity
of nations,” and remembers:
The “jolly” Austrian farmer who bore with
Kiwi’s reluctant services led him to the meadow
at four a.m. one spring morning in ’43. Though
listed “farmer” in p.-0.-w. records, Kiwi’s
previous agricultural essays were limited to
growing mustard on a piece of damp flannel.
After a lesson in scythe-sharpening—with ex-
pressions of wonder at the backwardness of the
Dominion’s farming practice countered by
Kiwi’s explanation of how Taranaki-grass was
self-cutting, -drying and -stacking—it was light
enough to see their boots. Tempered by know-
ledge of a still-far-distant breakfast, Kiwi’s first
gingerly swipe was calculated to conserve
energy—fortunately for the farmer’s dog, who
yelped away to the sympathy of the frau, with
nothing worse than a nicked behind. The
humor-loving herr cackled himself almost silly.
Kiwi, recalling the amount of “bully” the brute
had eaten, was more moderate in his laughter.
A few swipes later the score was evened with
the not-so-jolly farmer moaning over a neatly-
decapitated hen, and Kiwi blissfully wondering
whether his victim would be roasted, boiled or
fried. Thinking to deserve his share of the
coming feast, Kiwi put his back into the work.
The herr stopped at the end of the swathe and
encouraged his pupil with smile and cheery
word. It was regrettable that a leg should get
itself between the long blade and the greenery,
and the smiling morn be clouded with the
mists of anger. For the rest of the day the
“assassin” stayed in durance very vile—the pig-
sty—while the interpreter performed before a
court of the mayor, the local Nazi party-leader
and the Gestapo-agent. Fifty English cigarettes
later it was established that Kiwi was not a
member of the “murder-gang” which had
eliminated “poor party Kamarad Heydrich,”
and at the noon recess the interp. was able to
assure Kiwi there was a reasonable hope of
escaping the noose for attempted murder. By
■ —and with the help of —tea it was reluctantly
conceded that the demise of the fowl was un-
connected with the depredations of the “Polish
bandits who preyed upon the war resources of
the Reich” (Nazi journalese for swiping eggs
for the blackmarket), and Kiwi could contem-
plate a future unclouded by the menace of a
firing-squad on the score of “war sabotage.”
By then the interp. was hors d’argument , the
farmer wishing he’d bitten on his bullet in
silence and the frau a tearful blubber-heap.
Mitzi, the “house-daughter,” was cross-eyed try-
ing to weep for her father’s misfortunes with
one eye and —let it be whispered—her Kiwi’s
with the other one. In fact, so thoroughly done
were all hands concerned that the “severe sen-
tence” of the court failed to raise a grin. Kiwi
was condemned for “an unprovoked attack on
a canine co-worker in the New Order and
ordered to forfeit one mark 50 pfennigs to til©
funds of the Reich.”
THE LILY LAGOON
’Twas a moonlight night and a dewy veil
Hung over the lily lagoon.
Old Bandar had finished a dreamtime tale
How Moon-men fought to the curlew’s wail —
The women all laughed as the children cried,
And the song-man sang with a song-man’s pride
On the banks of the lily lagoon.
But I was weary and left them all
To walk by the lily lagoon.
1 trod me down where the blossoms fall
From woollybutt trees where the mopokes call
—A sharp low hoot drifting off on the breeze —
To their distant mates in the paperbark trees
Beside the deep lily lagoon.
Then out on the water I heard her call,
My bride from the dark lagoon!
So 1 cast my spears where the ferns are tall
And crept where the reeds stand tight as a wall;
I drew them aside, and saw as a dream
Some water-girls dance by the moonlight’s
gleam—
They danced on the dark lagoon.
And as I listened a wild sweet song
Came out from the lily lagoon.
First low, then rising as gales rush along,
Twas voices of madness, crushing and strong
That drew at my soul ... 1 dived in the pool,
And my hot flesh danced as it smote the cool
Dark waters of that lagoon.
I swam where the long green lilies rise
From the bed of the deep lagoon
Till a blinding light flashed into my eyes
Bright as that light when a Sky-man flies
With burning brand through the sky at night—
And stricken with madness 1 swam to a light
In the magical deep lagoon.
1 cried aloud as I saw her there
Deep down in that lily lagoon,
Covered with lily-stems, stroking her hair,
Chanting a charada—strange magic air
That tore at my flesh. She sat there alone
So I swam to claim this girl as my own.
My wife from the lily lagoon.
She moved towards me, I held her hand
And we went from that lily lagoon.
Together we wandered the hills of my land,
We bathed in its pools, we slept on its sand.
And happy was I, and happy were we,
My girl of the lilies was once more free
From the curse of the lily lagoon.
Oh lizard and bird came soft at her call,
As we went from that deep lagoon.
Fat possums came down from the timbers tall,
And under the shade where sweet figs fall
We feasted and laughed. Oh! happy were we
Gathering honey and fruit from the tree
Away from that lily lagoon.
One day as we camped by a banyan-tree
Not far from that lily lagoon
1 dreamt that high overhead I could see
My water-wife’s clan all pointing at me
And calling for her to come to their side.
And though in a dream I stoutly replied
“She is mine from the lily lagoon!”
I knew then we slept where sky-paths led
From out of the lily lagoon,
And the banyan-tree above our bed
Led straight to the stars and moon o’erhead.
They lowered a rope ... I opened my eyes
To see my water-wife move to the skies
Going back to the lily lagoon.
Then I cried to the skies, “This girl is mine,
My wife from the lily lagoon.”
I searched the tree but of her no sign;
I heard birds call from a lonely pine
That sighed with me as I stood alone
With flesh as water, my heart a stone
As I cursed the lily lagoon.
Then I heard a call and swift as the breeze
I dived in the deep lagoon.
I struggled and plunged by kadjebut-trees,
Soft mud in the bed crept over my knees,
As I heard loud laughter come from the pool.
1 cried, “She is mine!” and they answered,
“Fool,
Go back from this lily lagoon!”
Then a darkness came as I closed my eyes
And slept in that deep lagoon;
And I woke to the clansmen’s wailing cries,
And heard the story from Bandar the wise
How water-girl’s magic, helped by the moon,
Had trapped me with weeds in that lily lagoon,
The curse of the lily lagoon.
N.T.
W.E. HARNEY.


A good word
for everybo -
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. . 22/6
5S
a/
CAfSTM
3>
CAPSTAN Special Mild
REO PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cod-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
THE DEPENDABLE CIGARETTE
9440 :»-H
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Central Bank Report
The annual report of the
Commonwealth Bank governor,
Dr. H. C. Coombs, this time
covers almost a full year of the
joint Budgetary and central-
bank effort to combat inflation
in Australia, provide for defence
and increase essential produc-
tion, It has been a year of
political and Press controversy,
with some unemployment re-
placing overemployment, and
with a dramatic change, as re-
gards some commodities, from
a sellers’ to a buyers’ market.
Probably in no case has this been
more apparent than in the motor
trade.
But, as time goes by, more
and more people are coming
round to the view that the
change in high economic policy
was overdue, and that the
Federal Government is to be
warmly commended for under-
taking a necessary but unpopular
step. It may have to go further
in some directions —such as de-
manding greater economies in all
Government departments, in-
cluding its own—while there will
probably be some relaxation in
respect of private-enterprise
controls.
Dr. Coombs, in review:
This time last year the dominant
problem was the mounting inflation,
stimulated by abnormal wool prices
and by developmental programmes of
Governments, private industry and
public authorities on a scale beyond
the capacity of the physical resources
made available by current savings.
The prime objective of economic
policy generally was to restrain and
halt the inflation. To this end the
Commonwealth Government increased
taxes and budgeted for a surplus and
tightened control of capital issues.
At the same time the central bank,
in its own sphere of responsibility,
maintained a strict control over the
liquid reserves and advance policy of
the trading banks.
Powerful support in the achieve-
ment of the objective was received
from the very heavy volume of im-
ports which entered Australia during
the year. Many of the orders for
these goods had been awaiting fulfil-
ment for twelve months or more, but,
owing to lack of shipping space, deli-
veries had been long delayed. With
the contraction of other markets,
overseas suppliers, with the assist-
ance of costly chartered tonnage,
dispatched these accumulated orders,
and goods reached Australia in un-
precedented volume, requiring in pay-
“ This is a stick-up!”
ment almost double our export
income, which in the meantime had
been greatly reduced by the heavy
fall in wool values. This combination
of circumstances depleted, in a few
months, a great part of the inter-
national reserves that had been built
up over preceding years.
Such a heavy volume of imports
had a double effect. It brought on
to our markets goods in excess of
the demand, which had fallen off, pro-
ducing in most cases a buyers’ rather
than a sellers’ market, the effect of
which has extended also to the opera-
tions of some Australian industries
directly or indirectly competitive with
imports. On the financial side, the
payment for these imports on a scale
greatly exceeding our export income
tended to reduce the volume of bank
deposits sharply, and generally create
a shortage of finance.
The effects of the import surplus,
together with the fiscal and credit
policies in operation, have appreciably
reduced the inflationary pressure, and
the economy is more nearly balanced
in the relationship between expendi-
ture plans and available supplies. As
the inflationary pressure has been
reduced the elements of instability in
the economy have become more
apparent. Some producers have found
that the demand for their products
was dependent upon continued infla-
tionary conditions, and more com-
petitive conditions are emphasising the
existence of inefficiency and high
costs.
Because of these developments,
temporarily intensified in May and
. June by heavy payments of taxation,
the year closed on a note of some
uncertainty. However, the effects of
the import surplus will gradually
become weaker, and investment ex-
penditure plans, both private and
public, appear ample to employ the
resources made available by current
savings. Consequently, while present
uncertainties may continue for a few
months, the basic economic situation
seems to be one of strong demand,
particularly in the investment field.
During the four years preceding
June, 1951, Australia’s overseas
reserves increased by over £A6OO
million. This was principally due
not to earnings from current transac-
tions, but to large private capital
movements which, during the period,
amounted to £ASOO million or more.
During 1951-52 reserves took a sharp
turn downwards, and at the end of
June, 1952, amounted to £A362 mil-
lion, including gold valued at £AS(3
million and £AS6 million of short-
and medium-term British Government
securities (other than Treasury bills).
A year earlier reserves had amounted
to £AB43 million, including £A44
million of gold and £A9O million of
British Government securities (other
than Treasury bills).
The balance-of-payments crisis has
not only emphasised the dependence
of Australia on the export of rural
commodities, but has also drawn
attention to trends in Australian rural
production, which have previously
tended to be obscured by the size of
wool receipts from overseas sales and
the speed with which they increased
up to 1950-51.
Wherever one looks today,
provided his eyes are open and
clear, there can be no mistak-
ing the need for greater all-
round productivity per working
week as the sovereign remedy
to deal with inflating costs and
prices and to provide us with
the exports from which comes
our income to pay for the many
imports we require from over-
seas sources.
Private-company Tax
Introducing his amendments
to the income-tax laws. Trea-
surer Fadden said that, in
respect of private companies, of
profits up to £6OOO, 34 p.c.
would be allowed to be retained
free of undistributed-profits tax,
and over that figure the reten-
tion-allowance would be 25 p.c.
Above the retention-allpwance
the undistributed-profits tax
would be a flat rate of 10s. in
the £.
The Treasurer continued:
If any private company deliberately
retains income in excess of the reten-
tion-allowance it may reasonably be
assumed to be converting that income
into capital, which becomes part of
the permanent capital structure of the
company, and that it does not con-
template the distribution of the taxed
funds to its shareholders.
If it should distribute them,
however, it is proposed that there
should be no abatement in the share-
holders’ assessments on account of
the tax paid by the company.
One of the most fruitful sources of
complexity and dispute is the present
system of identifying and rebating to
shareholders the tax payable on divi-
dends distributed out of funds which
have borne undistributed income-
tax.
It is confidently expected that,
under the proposed system, private
companies will distribute their
income up to the permitted retention-
allowances so that no question of
rebate will again rise.
In short, the system of allow-
ing tax-free dividends to share-
holders in proprietary com-
panies where undistributed
profits have borne tax at the
rate appropriate to the aggre-
gated incomes of its share-
holders is being abolished. Even
where the substituted flat-rate
-tax of 10s. in the £ is paid on
undistributed profits there will
be no rebates if they are subse-
quently passed on as dividends
to shareholders.
The Treasurer indicated that
nothing would be done about
rebating tax paid by any type of
company when the taxed profit
was passed on to shareholders,
who will continue to be taxed
at the full property rate. The
Bulletin maintains that this is
still a form of double-taxation
paid only by those who invest
in incorporated businesses.
Roma Well Collapses
“Petro”: The news that
Roma Blocks No. 4 well col-
lapsed, f ollowing the bailing of
part of the water in the hole,
is not surprising, as the casing
had been in the bore since 1941
and probably it was not new
when it was set.
The immediate reason for
the collapse, however, may be,
as perhaps with the Warooby
well last March (B. 26/3/’52),
the weakening of the already de-
teriorated casing by the seismic
shots fired by the Bureau of
Mineral Resources in the vicinity
of the well during its geophysical
survey of the area.
It was fortunate for Associ-
ated Australian Oilfields that
the failure occurred when it did,
as the consequences might have
been more serious during
the anticipated perforating and
swabbing operations.
The company states that it
will drill its next test on a site
near the collapsed well. This
seems to discount the value of
Government geophysical data,
with the co. as a result falling
back on the empirical method
of drilling near oil “shows”
which was popular during the
later decades of the 19tji
century.
The geophysical misfire at
Roma, however, may have its
economic uses if it serves to
convince the Bureau of Mineral
Resources that the search
for oil is not its metier.
That this realisation had not
come recently is indicated by
the fact that the Loijdon techni-
cal press, only a few weeks ago,
carried advertisements by the
Department of National De-
velopment for petroleum geolo-
gists. The salaries offered,
although generous by Austra-
lian civil-service standards, are
not sufficiently large to attract
qualified and experienced men
out of the oil industry.


The requirements of the Companies Act 1938 of the State of Victoria have not been fully complied with
in this newspaper advertisement of the full Prospectus, which is. dated the First day of September, 1952, and
a duly certified copy of which has been filed with the .Registrar-General of the said State.
The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Limited'
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
OF
£4,000,000 5% Registered Mortgage Debentures
DIRECTORS:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX, 22 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Chartered Accountant
(Aust.), Chairman.
DAVID WILSON, Q.C., “The Astor,” Macquarie Street, Sydney, Earrister-at-law.
JOHN GORDON CROWTHER, Australian Club, Macquarie Street, Sydney, Solicitor.
JOHN WALLACE DUNLOP, 120 Bellevue Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Merchant.
GREGORY BLAXLAND KATER, 106 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Electrical Engineer.
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), 33-39 Hunter-street, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS;
lAN POTTER & CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURES:
Application forms (together with copies of the full Prospectus) may be obtained from.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED and
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Applications will be received only on one of the
application forms referred to and endorsed upon a
printed copy of the full Prospectus and should be
lodged at the principal office in Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth or Hobart of the Bank of
New South Wales or The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited.
Subscription Lists opened on September 8, 1952,
and will remain open until the close of business on
October 8, 1952, subject to the right of the Board
of Directors of the Company to close the issue at an
earlier time without prior notice.
The Directors will proceed to allotment of the
debentures as from the opening date of the issue.
STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) The minimum amount which in the opinion of
the Directors must be raised by the issue of de-
bentures is £4,000,000. This amount is required
to be provided in respect of each of the follow-
ing matters: —
(i) The purchase price of any property pur-
chased or to be purchased which is to be
defrayed in whole or in part out of the pro-
ceeds of the issue is Nil, but the estimated
amount which will be expended In respect
of extensions and improvements to build-
ings and additions to plant, machinery and
equipment required for the expansion of the
business carried on by the company and its
subsidiaries is £3,925,000.
(ii) Preliminary expenses payable by the Com-
pany, Nil. Expenses of the issue (including
underwriting commission and brokerage
amounting to £50,000 payable to the under-
writers in consideration of their agreeing to
procure subscriptions for debentures of the
issue) are estimated to amount to £75,000.
(iii) Repayment of any moneys borrowed by the
Company in respect of any of the foregoing
matters, Nil. But pending the expenditure
of the sum of £3,925,000 as referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) hereof, part thereof will
from time to time be used in reducing bank
overdrafts.
(iv) Working capital, Nil.
(b) No amounts are to be provided in respect of the
matters aforesaid otherwise than out of the pro-
ceeds of the issue.
Why it*s better to insist on
i
GENUINE SPARE PARTS
for your British Car
DISTRIBUTOR
COVERS
IGNITION COILS
CONTACT SETS
t Or\g» na ' tq P ? tbe orig«* al
** ° Bmanufoct«res 8 ma nufoct« res th d
caS m Ugbti«g..t d cal9 B For
starting* , ptitisb a vways
eq»iP» eßt economy
teliabdnV , cel oen> P“ ma uer3-
T^ZSZT"
“AS"- — ‘
V . «1
>« fo,ro “ nCe , t months:
a -teed tor 6 t v v/itb
S-t-
Lucas ail *
O K va \\ab\e service
w* ** - garage® s upP^
Ml leading & ltlo n t
t-* -r,sc#» Genu,n
yOU V? 1
parts. " ”
CONDENSERS
BRUSHES
WINDSCREEN
WIPER PARTS
FUSES
ROTOR ARMS
mem
BATTERIES
Available from all
leading garages
and service stations
or apply to. . .
Made In Australia’s most modern
battery factory. Recommended
for all cars & trucks.
V■> s ' ; '
18 months
Insured Lire
sd
BRlSBANE —Elphinstones Ltd., Ann St. • SYDNEY —Bennett and Wood Pty. Ltd.,
13-23 Wentworth Av. • MELBOURNE —Starting Lighting Ignition Pty. Ltd., 68-78
Sturt St., Sth. Melbourne • ADELAIDE —Hannan Bros. Ltd., 63 Franklin St.
PERTH— Joseph Lucas ( Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 627-639 Wellington St.
HOBART—W. A. Richards. 56 Collins St.
LAUNCESTON — H. C. Thompson and Co., 97 Charles St.
JOSEPH LUCAS (AUST.) PTY. LTD.i
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Spring Spending
After 12 months of the
severest squeeze since the big
depression, trade in Maoriland
began to shake itself free from
the worst effects when spring
and the new production season
brought a lift in consumer-
spending, just when Maori-
landers were feeling much in
need of it. Conservative farmers
always sit back in the winter,
when there’s not much money
coming in, but they soon loosen
purse-strings, get out their
cheque-books and begin to make
a show of prosperity once the
lull is over, controls and psycho-
logical factors notwithstanding.
Although N.Z. has come
through a trying 18 months
since it ran into the port and
shipping strike early last year,
which cost it, directly and in-
directly, up to £4O million,
wealth from butter, cheese and
meat has helped it to regain its
foothold in much less time than
expected, and its experience
shows the advantage of having
its eggs well distributed in
several baskets. It can thank its
climate, rich pastures and hard-
working rural population, too.
There’s still a good proportion
of Maorilanders not on the 40-
hour five-day week, and so long
as they keep up the pace and
Maoriland is able to sell its
foodstuffs at high prices, mainly
to John Bull, the foundations
of the Welfare State, along with
easy prosperity in the towns,
should still be reasonably firm.
The real test will come when,
or if, N.Z. food exports run into
difficulty.
Dame Fortune has been kind
to farmers in the post-war years,
with a whopping rise in their
annual incomes from £122 mil-
lion (to March, 1947) to £269
million four years later, and a
further big gain since. The
pinch of the cost of living and
cost of production is now felt
mostly in the towns and cities, as
rewards are more related to real
toil.
What M.L. needs, to round
off its anti-inflationary drive, is
equal effort in the factories,
which would "ease the pressure
on its exchange by making it
more self-supporting. It’s at last
beginning to dawn on the
majority of wage-earners that
they’ll have to put more muscle
into production if they want to
enjoy the standard of living
they’ve been brought up to, and
output is improving. Tighter
credit has a good deal to do
with the change, and the magic
of this should be seen more
before long. Maoriland has
been using the cure more spar-
ingly than Australia, and hopes
to avoid the harm that comes
from overworking it.
Reserve-bank Policy
Things are looking up for the
New Zealand pound and for
Maoriland’s Reserve Bank as
controller of credit, after a
struggle behind the scenes
between the bank and the Trea-
sury which hasn’t quite ended
yet. There was strong resistance
from the Treasury and the trad-
ing banks before the R.B. won
its point and raised the statutory
minimums for deposits in the
central reserves.
The rise, on August 1, to
10 p.c. of trading banks’ free
deposits and 5 p.c. of fixed
deposits, against 7 p.c. and 3
p.c. in the past, was so small
that there was no obvious rea-
son why it should have taken so
long to hatch out; but the im-
portance of it was that the R.B.
had now established its right to
use one of its potentially most
powerful weapons to regulate
the volume of money. Future
moves should be easier. There’s
no reason why the limits
shouldn’t rise or fall with
changes in business and trade,
or to meet seasonal demands,
such as the tax peak in the first
quarter of the year.
In making this move the
Reserve Bank said: “Control of
bank credit through adjusting
the reserve ratios of the banks
is quantitative in operation,
whereas the advance control
policy is mainly qualitative, or
selective, being chiefly concerned
with the purposes for which
increased advances are required.”
For years before the import
boom the banks were holding
deposits with the R.B. up to
more than five times the ruling
minimums, but the run on credit
from November onwards to
finance the record spending spree
quickly drained away all the
surplus until the banks were
scraping the bottom of the
bucket and one or two were
hard pressed.
“Special measures” to keep
above the minimums included
borrowing several millions of
primary producers’ pooled
reserves. The tension began
to ease in May, after a
peak of £195 million was
touched for advances, against
£l2l million in July, 1951, and
since then the total has fallen
back to less than £l7O million.
It might go below £l5O million
before it settles, but this would
be a good mark to aim at as a
target in the meantime.
Forest Wealth
With a sizeable part (£5 mil-
lion) of last year’s tax surplus of
£12.6 million earmarked as the
Government’s first contribution
to Maoriland’s big Murupara
pulp-and-paper project, the
economic future of the pine
forests which cover more than
half a million acres of pumice
country in the heart of the
North Island is beginning to
look greener. These forests,
growing at a rate which amazes
overseas timber experts, promise
to yield an export surplus of
pulp, newsprint and sawn timber
that might one day place them
second only to foodstuffs as a
contributor to New Zealand
wealth and prosperity.
By-products like fibre-board,
cardboard and commercial paper
will be profitable sidelines to
keep the mills of New Zealand
Forest Products, Ltd., and
Whakatane Board Mills, Ltd.,
up to concert pitch, and other
useful lines will be turpentine,
resin, tannin and caustic soda,
to make Maoriland more-or-less
self-supporting in a number of
products now imported. So far
the resources of these vigorous
young forests have been little
more than scratched.
Here are some of the output
targets;
N.Z. Forest Products —70 million
super, feet of sawn timber, 35,000
tons of pulp, 15,000 tons of kraft
paper, and (if the co. is granted a
licence) 00,000 tons of newsprint
annually.
Whakatane Board Mills —24,000
tons of cardboard and 13i million
super, feet of sawn timber yearly.
(Present output of cardboard is
8000 tons.)
Tasman -Pulp and Paper—6o,ooo
tons of newsprint, 40,000 tons of
kraft paper, and 40 million board
feet of sawn timber a year (starting
within three years).
Matakana Milling and Export Cor-
poration—lo million board feet of
sawn pinus radiata (a quarter of the
to go to Australia).
Results of this combined
development that will mean most
to N.Z. will be a better balance
in trans-Tasman trade, a saving
of dollars spent on newsprint, a
broader basis for Maoriland’s
manufacturing industries, em-
ployment and prosperity, and an
end to timber shortages.
Gold Reserve
Behind Maoriland’s 18-year-
old Reserve Bank there’s a
slowly-growing hoard of gold,
worth £l2 million sterling at
pegged world prices, or double
the modest figure the bank dis-
closes. The hidden gain comes
mainly from the jump to nearly
£l2 ss. an ounce in the big ster-
ling devaluation (September,
1949).
As N.Z.’s richest gold-
mine (Martha) began to peter
out, and finally closed down, the
inflow fell off. With all gold-
producers struggling to keep
their heads above water there’s
not much more than three-
quarters of a million a year
coming in now, and the R.B.’s
best hopes are staked on a rise
in the dollar price (now 35 dol-
lars an ounce), which it seems
must come some day.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) 5 Sir Lennon Raw*.
C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager! W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. (London),
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; Thomas B. Heifer;
W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Are you, going abroad ?
Before going abroad it is well to consider the advantages that accrue from the appointment
of The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited as your Attorney or Agent. It
supervises business affairs and interests, remits income regularly, collects rents, dividends and
interest, prepares Land and Income Tax returns, attends to the investment of moneys, the
payment of rates and taxes, and performs all similar services.
Ample security is offered for the proper fulfilment of all such obligations. An interview can
be arranged to suit your convenience.
Write or call for free booklet .
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
IQ
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,964
TRIA.3S
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1940.. 53,226 7 p.c. = 38,500 14,726 264,212
43 ’ 908 7 ~ ~ 38,500 6,408 269,620
I' 42 ** 37,732 6 ” >» 33 > 000 4,732 274,352
1943.. 49,548 7 „ „ 38,500 . 11,048 285,400
I“ ner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO .. 385,400
7944 •• 56,809 7 p.c. = 38,500 18,309 403,709
1945.. 53,659 7 „ „ 88,500 15,159 418,868
7949 -- 67 >1 56 7 „ „ 38,500 18,656 437,524
1947.. 64,386 7 „ „ 38,500 25,886 463,410
From inner reserves, £105,000 .. 568,410
7948 -- ? 8 ’ 341 9 p.c. = 49,500 28,841 597,251
1949.. 83,183 9„ „ 64,000 29,183 626,434
JIH 1 ! 10 ’’ » 60,000 51,411 677,845
1951 •• 153.927 12J „ „ 99,231 84,696 762,541
® hare premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 862,541
1952.. 142,959 10 p.c. = 90,000 52,959 915,500
•After deducting goodwill (£41,983).
This big woolbroking, pastoral-finance
and agency business has strong and
growing connections in N. S. Wales and
Queensland, where it is respectively third-
and fourth-largest seller of the staple.
To help finance growth of the business
200,000 new £1 shares were issued at par
in July, 1950, and another 200,000 were
put out at a premium of 10s. each a year
later. At June 30 last all but £26,295 of
the new money had come in, thus making
paid capital (including calls paid in ad-
vance) £973,705. The share-premiums,
together with surplus earnings, lifted
reserves to £915,500, which means that
to cover the declared rate of dividend
capital and reserves combined have to
turn in little more than half that rate.
The contraction of £40,968 in last
term’s net earnings resulted mainly from
the sharp fall in wool prices, which was
accompanied by an equally sharp per-
centage-rise in wage and other costs.
Aggregate values of the entire clip in the
two States already mentioned compare as
follows over the last three seasons:
r - J N. S. Wales N ( Queensland ,
Total Value. Av. Bale. Total Value. Av. Bale.
£ £ s. d. £ £ s. d.
49- 107.731,932 78 3 0 46,155,258 88 9 4
50- 228,404,770 180 9 4 98,244,989 177 2 3
’5l-52 105,260,547 93 18 1 48,957,421 104 15 6
The disturbances that resulted from the
big rise and fall in the figures are now
being felt in all sections of trade and
industry.
There was a small contraction in the
volume of last season’s clip, too, owing
to drought and bushfires, and a conse-
quent drop in the number of bales
auctioned by the co.:
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1950 .. 277,920 806,099 25,237
1951 .. 267.986 231,229 24,292
1952 .. 241,249 256,510 31,057
Lower prices for the clip induced sheep-
and lamb-producers to give more atten-
tion to the marketing of fats, and higher
prices for beef helped the sale of cattle.
Turnover in the Brisbane machinery
department dropped, but is expected to
pick up later on.
The £142,959 of profit was written
after allowing £22,896 (up £4687) for
depreciation and something for taxation
and other contingencies. It was 15.8 p.c,
on average capital as against 23.1, 18.5,
13.8, 14.2 and 11.7 p.c. back to 1947. The
cautious board dropped the 2 i p.c. bonus
sent out with the 10 p.c. div. in the
previous year, when earnings were excep-
tional, leaving 37 p.c. of last term’s profit
to plough back into the business.
The extra £138,390 of fresh capital
gathered during the year went mainly
into freeholds (up £87,980) and plant (up
£20,124), thus increasing storage and
handling facilities:—
_ „ , 1950. 1951. 1952.
Capital .. £650,979* £835,315* £973,705*
Creditors 7 ? f 2.646.603 2,499,815
Overdraft f 1,35,7,814 J 52,333 127>593
Final div. .. 36,000 59,846 45,000
Freeholds .. 336,380 367,042 455,022
Plant ,. .. 62.712 83,380 103.504
Stocks .. 219,491 315,233 472,926
Advances, etc... 2,344.770 3,588,745 3,527.918
Investments and
cash .. .. 295,785 2,238 2,243
* Includes £50,979, £35,315 and £73,705 applica-
tion money on new shares in 1950, 1951 and 1952
respectively.
The £100,000 of share-premiums, to-
gether with an extra £75,260 from the
bank and a reduction of £60,827 in ad-
vances, enabled the creditors item to be
reduced by £146,788 and stocks (especially
in the machinery department) to be
increased by £157,693.
The current term has opened well from
the seasonal point of view, and early
indications are that the 1952-53 wool
cheque might not fall far short of its
immediate predecessor. Greatest danger
to the economy at the moment is not that
wool prices have fallen too low but that
wage and other costs have risen too high,
owing to a self-propelling system whereby
wage increments follow automatically any
rise in the cost of living. If this thorny
problem, on which the Arbitration Court
is now trying its teeth, can be resolved,
many of the worst difficulties with which
trade and industry are now faced will be
resolyed with it. The alternatives are
sluggishness in trade generally, growth of
unemployment and fall in the standard
of living.
The price of the co.’s £1 shares, which
fell from 41s. 3d. early in 1952 to 33s. 6d.
in May, stood at 37s. last week, giving
a return of 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Including uncalled and unpaid
capital, net tangible cover (book-value) is
38s. 3d.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends
T , „ Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves.serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1946.. 70,717 10,500 8 p.c.= 25,923 34,294 120,620
To staff pension fund, £6000 114,620
To inner reserves, £10,000 .. ..104,620
1947.. 79,677 10,500 8 p.c.= 25,923 43,254 147,874
To staff pension fund, £6000 ., .. 141,874
From tax reserves, £15,000 .. 156 874
1948.. 84,061 10,500 9 p.e.= 29,164 183,271
Written off fixtures, £10,000 .. -26,397 183,271
To staff fund, £8000 .. ..J
Prom inner reserves, £80,000 .. .. 213 271
1949.. 75,928 10,500 9 p.c.=29,164 i 91
To staff fund, £5000 .. . . V 31,264 244,585
1950.. 71.922 10,500 9 p.c.=30,964 ) ,, Q 9AO OOQ
To staff fund, £5000 .. . J 25,458 269,993
1951.. 80,677 10,500 114p.c.=39,565 { , 19 „ Q ,
To staff fund, £5000 .. ., f 25,612 295,605
1952.. 68,507 10,500 9 p.c..=S0,964 27,048 322,648
* After deducting book-value of goodwill (£60,741).
Despite the stickiness of trade toward
the close of last accounts and many
other difficulties, this well-handled, cen-
tury-old drapery business, which is in
the heart of Melbourne’s shopping
centre, again reports an increase in the
money-value of turnover. But there was
a bigger increase in wage and all other
operating costs, as well as further
narrowing of gross margins. Hence the
contraction of £12,170 (15 p.c.) in net
earnings, which were written after allow-
ing £9333 (down £501) for depreciation
and £65,000 (down £25,000) for taxa-
tion. The £68,507 of profit was the
lowest claimed for the last seven years.
It covered the pref. div. (£10,500) and
16.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against 20.4,
17.8, 20.1, 22.7, 21.3, 18.5 and 14 p.c.
back to 1945. So nothing had to be
strained to repeat the 9 p.c. div. which
has been an annual event for the last
seven years, sweetened with a special 2\
p.c. bonus in 1951 to celebrate the
centenary of the business.
Besides the troubles already mentioned,
a combination of increased supplies and
tightening of credit, which resulted from
a flood of imports, brought trouble to
the textile and wholesale trades, and
there was some unloading of goods at
cut prices in order to meet current trade
commitments. At the same time the rising
cost of food, transport and other essen-
tials reduced the surplus spending-power
of shoppers, who have now become more
discriminating and less expansive in their
purchases. Thus for the first time in over
a decade there has been a pronounced
swing from a sellers’ to a buyers’ market.
Considered in connection with other
figures, the co.’s stocks (up £2972)
appear to be conservatively valued and
well-bought. Not only was the co. un-
hampered by credit restrictions, but it
was able to reduce the amount coming
to trade and other creditors by £106,567,
thanks to a comfortable bank credit at
the close of accounts in 1951:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Ord, capital.. £324,041 £344,041 £344,041 £344,041
Pref. capital 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Mortgage .. 35,000 35,000 35,000
Sundry
creditors, etc. 188,377 210,618 318,273 211,706
Staff fund . . 51,240 57,292 63,997 65,202
Tax provision 68,220 61,561 97,771 66,579
Pinal div. .. 21,063 22,363 30.964 22,863
Freehold, etc. 518,270 563,617 563,277 562,977
Plant, etc. .. 51,141 52,475 51,177 55,300
Stock .. 388,768 393,649 524,452 527,424
Book debts,
etc. .. 46,261 51,818 66,785 70,728
Cash, etc. .. 43,036 89,309 129,961 1,110
Goodwill .. 60,741 60,741 60,741 60,741
The growth in book-debts was only
£3943, and the year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£198,422) was
£23,229.
Ugliest feature in the outlook at the
moment is the still-rising wage-cost struc-
ture. Subject to what happens in this
connection, steps taken by the Govern-
ment and the banks, together with the
seasonal outlook and satisfactory level of
export prices, should do much to steady
the position in the retail trade. Last
term the co. paid £21,519 in land-tax,
from which field the Federal Govern-
ment has now withdrawn. But the net
gain will be less than the amount stated,
because payments under this heading
were authorised deductions from taxable
income.
Doubtful as to what might happen, the
market prices the co.’s ss. ord. stock
units at 7s. 3d. (Bs. 9d, early in 1952) to
return 6.2 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The
7 p.c. prefs. at 245. 6d. yield 5.7 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £5 Bs. lid. prefs. and
9s. 9d. ords.
Peters Cons. Milk Industries (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1945.. 86,166 9 p.c. = 75,095 11,071 455,584
1946.. 87,076 9 „ „ 75,681 11,395 466,929
1947.. 86,591 9 „ „ 76,566 10,025 476,954
Profit, sale of assets, £2300 .. 479,254
1948.. 96,898 9 p.c. = 78,045 18,853 498,107
1949.. 98,069 9 „ „ 78,648 19,421 517,528
1950.. 100,508 10 „ „ 87,387 13,121 530,649
Shareholdings written up, £875,000 905,649
Reserves capitalised, £374,517 .. 531,132
Parent and Subsidiaries.
From subsidiaries, £567,135 .. 1,098,267
1951.. 94,651 9 p.c. = 93,338 1,313 1,099,580
Unexplained reduction, £5792 ~ 1,093,788
1952.. 101,434 7J p.c. = 112,218 1,088,004
* Subject to intangibles of £35,367 at 30/6/’52.
The drop in the div. from 9 p.c. to
p.c, last term isn’t all that it looks.
In Feb., 1951, when the name was changed
from Peters American Delicacy Co, to
the present more appropriate title,
£374,517 of bonus-scrip was scattered,
and 219,419 new £1 ords, were issued for
cash at par. So, on capital as it now
stands less the 1951 gift-issue, the p.c.
is worth 10.1 p.c, Divs. averaged
11.3 p.c. for the 18 years to 1939, and
approximately 9 p.c. for the 12 years to
1951, sweetened with a one-for-one gift
scrip-issue in 1940, when the parent trans-
formed itself into a holding co.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests, as well as a loss of £19,178 in
respect of a new creamery at Grafton (not
yet in production), and allowing for de-
preciation (£130,628, down £76,588) and
taxation (£94,500, up £19,587), combined
net earnings of parent and subsidiaries
were £101,434 (up £6783) last term. That
was 6.9 p.c. on average capital as against
9.1 p.c. for the previous term. Still, the
board had no hesitation in paying 7 % p.c.,
which can be taken as a hint that every
pound may not have been put on the
table, and that it is satisfied with the out-
look for the group.
Of the subsidiaries Peters Ice Cream
Pty. (paid capital £1,000,000) and Peters
Creameries Pty. (paid capital £500,000), at
Taree, are the largest and most substantial
contributors to the pool. Last term the
Ice Cream co.’s sales fell away following
a rise in the selling-price, but turnover
is expected to pick up during the summer,
and the new branch at Newcastle should
help the figures along, too. Owing to
drought, the Taree co., reported to be
making rapid progress, had to divert its
mtake of fluid milk to the Metropolitan
area, to which it was second-largest
supplier. However, it was also able to
meet the needs of the Ice Cream co. and
make a lot of powdered and concentrated
milk for the local and export markets as
well. The Grafton co., an offshoot of
the Taree one, expects to have its factory
m operation in time for the 1953-54
season.
Foley Bros. Pty., in which a controlling-
interest is held, owns butter factories in
the Richmond River district. It recently
installed a lot of new plant, and reports
considerable expansion of trade and
profit earnings.”
Peters Refrigeration Pty. (paid capital
£15,000), which makes and services
refrigeration units for the Ice Cream co.’s
distributors, has been affected by restric-
tion of hire-purchase credit, and intends
to provide direct finance to purchasers.
The Adelaide co., Peters Ice Cream
(S.A.) Pty. (paid capital £25,000), is not
yet functioning, owing to delays in con-
nection with plant, some of which has to
be imported.
Continued expansion of the group and
the growth of stocks are the features of
consolidated balance-sheet figures;
1951. 1952.
Paid capital £1,456,967 £1,481,456
Outside interests .. ~ 75,874 79,319
Overdraft 398,491 1,106,140
Creditors, etc 545,050 615,620
Inter-co. balances ~ .. 53,288
Tax provision .. ~ 145,335 188,’186
Final div 54,014 60.367
Freeholds, etc.* .. .. 856,718 903,597
Plant .. . , .. ... 1,224,619 1,416,717
Under eonstructionf .. .. 120,132 256,066
Stocks 564,491 1,062,347
Book debts 471,676 528,474
Shares other cos. ... .. 119,812 119,812
Government securities ~ 840,000 340,000
Inter-eo. balances . . .. 43,430
Intangibles 85,363 35,367
* Includes leaseholds £6lOB, 1951 ; £5193, 1952.
t Buildings and plant.
To meet net additions of £374,919 to
fixed assets, £497,856 to stocks and
£56,798 to book-debts the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £707,649, added
£69,670 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, and gathered £24,489 of fresh
share capital. There was a drop of
£363,587 in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£32,032), owing to the outlay on fixed
assets. When the books closed there was
13s, sd, belonging to the bank and sundry
creditors for every £ of shareholders’
funds in the business.
Since the close of accounts the parent
bought all the 283,904 f.-p. £1 shares in
the 77-year-old Fresh Food and Ice Co.
in exchange for 177,441 of its own f.-p.
£1 shares, on which p.c. would call for
£13,307, equal to 4.8 p.c. on the vendor
co.’s capital. Last term the vendor co.
showed a loss of £13,399 and paid no div.
For the five preceding years its profits
averaged £17,285, and it paid a steady
5j p.c. Much of its plant is out of date,
and a lot of money needs to be spent on
modernising it. When this is done it
should prove a helpful and profitable
addition to the Peters organisation. As
one of the two distributing agents for the
Milk Board, Fresh Food handles about
one-third of Sydney’s milk-supply, which
it buys from country producers, trans-
ports, pasteurises and assists in final dis-
tribution. It also trades in bread, ice,
ice-cream, fish, game and poultry, and
owns a subsidiary, Byrne’s Exhibition
Dairy Pty., which took over Hugh Byrne’s
old Rosebery business about 12 years ago
and moved to Picton, where other dairy
interests were absorbed.
At 28s. 6d. (395. 6d. a year ago) Peters’
£1 shares return 5.2 p.c. on a 7i p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is 345. 2d.


RUPTURED?
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture, A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exen>
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for th«
hernia region.
7
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method’
NAME.
ADDRESS...
... STATE.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0,1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Bead,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Telegraphic Address:
Oorrlente*. Brisbane.
Telephones: FA 2176 (8 lines)
CORRIE & CO.
Dong-las M. Corrle, Robin M. Corale
Stock and Sharebrokers
(Established 1877)
Members Brisbane Stock Exchange
Scottish Union House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 30lh June, 1952.
LIABILITIES. £
Central Banking Business—
Capital „ 4,000,000
Reserve Fund 2,405,07 ft
General Banking Division—
Capital . .. 4,286,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 1,355,860
Rural Credits Department—
Capital 2,143,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 655,615
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital .. .. .. .. 4,285,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 267,716
Industrial Finance Department—
Capital 4,286,000
Reserve Fund 1,079,367
24,763,534
Special Reserve—Premium cm gold sold 4,754,954
Notes on issue .. .. .. .. 301,667,859
Deposits—
Special accounts of trading banks .. 244,220,000
Other deposits of trading banks .. 46,214,377
Other deposits, bills payable and
other liabilities (including provi-
sion for contingencies) .. .. 426,702,294
ASSETS. £
Gold and balances held abroad (in-
cluding money at short call) .. 299,496,889
Australian notes and coin .. .. 8,681,895
Cheques and bills of other banks .. 21,333,441
Commonwealth Government securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills) 449,742,517
Securities of other Governments, and
of local and semi-governmental
authorities .. .. .. .. 59,931,646
Bills receivable and remittances in
transit .. .. .. .. 23,127,423
Bank premises, at cost less amounts
written off .. .. .. .. 2,259,289
Loans, advances, etc. (after deducting
provision for debts considered bad
or doubtful) —
Central Bank .. .. .. 49,390,825
General Banking Division 61,462,750
Rural Credits Department .. 38,949,516
Mortgage Bank Department ~ 4,316,909
Industrial Finance Department .. 23,104,473
Other assets .. .. .. .. 4,525,445
Total
1,046,323,018
Total
1,046,323,018
Note. —lnter-departmental accounts totalling £63,181,372 have been offset.
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1952.
Cr.
£
Central Banking Business—
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. 1,136,990
To Commonwealth Bank Reserve
Fund 636,990
To General Banking Division Capital
Account .. .. .. .. 143,000
To Rural Credits Department Capital
Account 71,500
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account .. .. .. 142,500
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account 143,000
Note Issue Department—
To General Banking Division Capital
Account .. .. .. .. 143,000
To Rural Credits Department Capital
Account .. 71,500
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account .. .. .. 142,500
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account 143,000
To Commonwealth Treasury .. 8,380,762
General Banking Division —
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. 175,952
To General Banking Division Reserve
Fund .. .. .. .. 175,952
Rural Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Department
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 48,362
To Rural Credits Development Fund 48,362
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Department
Reserve Fuad .. .. .. 49,875
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance Department
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 289,761
Total
6,942,506
By Profits (after provision for contin-
gencies)—
Central Banking Business
Note Issue Department ..
General Banking Division
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Department
Industrial Finance Department ..
2,273,980
3,880,762
351,904
96,724
49,375
289,761
Total ...
6,942,506
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. S. EYERS, Stcretary. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 21st August, 1952
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1952.
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. S. EYERS, Secretary.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant.
(Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
Sydney, 21st August, 1952
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General lot the
Commonwealth (Mr. J. Brophy).
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.)
Ee-
June Profit.* , —Dividends— N serves.*
30, £ £ £
1944.-23,496 8 p.c. = 9,935 206,947
1945.. 20.402 8 ~ „ 9,935 217,414
1946.. 17.998 10 „ ~ 12,419 222.993
Profit sale investments, £2298 225,291
1947.. 24.396 10 p.c. = 12,419 237,268
1948.. 32.879 10 „ „ 12,419 257,728
To staff fund, £2300 .. 255,428
1949.. 44.143 124 p.e. = 15,524 284,047
To staff fund, £4119 .. 279,928
1950.. 48.465 124 p.c. = 15,524 312,869
To staff fund, £929 .. .. 311,940
Goodwill written off, £1788.. 310,152
Profit sale assets, £4252 .. 314,404
1951.. 44,964 124 p.c. = 19,131 340,237
To staff fund, £2568 .. 387,669
1952.. 51.975 124 P-c. = 21,734 367,910
To staff fund, £4273 .. 363,637
* Includes additions to depreciation
reserve, etc. (now £86,000).
The heavy-engineering industry
has suffered less than the textile
and retail trades from the eco-
nomic disturbances which fol-
lowed the big rise and fall in
wool prices, etc. Considering the
effects of the inflationary spiral
on long-term contracts and the
fact that new works at Mackay
(where Cameron’s old-estab-
lished engineering business was
taken over late in 1950) had not
come into operation. Walkers,
at Maryborough, made a re-
markably good showing last
term. Although the co.’s ship-
building activities (one of the
chief sources of income during
the war) was reduced to con-
struction of a dredge for the
Queensland'Government, the de-
mand for general engineering
lines, structural steel and sugar
machinery, etc., remained
strong.
The year’s net result was
£7Oll better at £51,975. That
was after allowing £27,000 (up
£1000) for taxation and con-
tingencies, but includes £lO,OOO
(up £4000) earmarked as “de-
preciation provision” (now
£86,000), some or all of which
might be genuine profit. The
£51,975 was 29.9 p.c. on capital
as against 29.4, 39, 35.3 and 26.4
p.c. back to 1948. The div. was
kept at 124 p.c., £4273 was sent
to the staff fund, and the £15,968
that remained lifted reserves
(£363,637) to more than twice
the size of paid capital. The
two combined, therefore, need
turn in only 4 p.c. to cover 124
p.c. on capital alone, which is
thus a modest return on share-
holders’ funds. Only once in the
last 45 years have those on the
register failed to receive a div.
Average rates were 7 p.c. for
the 13 years to 1920, 9.5 p.c. and
6.1 p.c. for the next two decades,
and 10 p.c. for the dozen years
to the close of last accounts.
The financial position is com-
fortable, despite a contraction
of £30,802 in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£230,929), due to
a net addition of £56,772 to fixed
assets, mainly on account of the
new works at Mackay:—-
iqt:n i o k i toko
Paid capital .. 124,193 173,871 173,871
Overdraft .. 93,478 75,122 139,318
Sundry
creditors* .. 76,780 92,008 89;C37
Staff fund .. 10,000 12,000 15,000
Final div. .. 15,524 19,131 21,734
Freehold, plant,
etc 197,686 249,809 306,581
Stock .. . . 103,123 109,535 134,186
Work in progress 117,992 124,844 72,589
Book debts . . 80,253 94,235 157,742
Investments
and cash .. 130,573 131,878 131,501
* Includes provision for taxation and
contingencies.
Stocks (up £24,651) appear at
the lower of cost or market-
value. A growth of £63,507 in
book-debts was accompanied
by a shrinkage of £52,255 in
contracts in progress. Invest-
ments (£130,831) are a com-
pound of Government securities
and shares in other cos.
The co. is well placed to meet
the growing needs of northern
Queensland in general and other
engineering work, an order has
been received from the Federal
Government for construction of
a boom-defence vessel and
further contracts are anticipated,
and early completion of the
Mackay works should help earn-
ings, too.
Provided the mad spiralling
of wage and other costs can be
arrested at an early date and
thus eliminate some of the
potential danger from overseas
competition, the scrip has possi-
bilities as a long-term invest-
ment. At 445, (735. a year ago)
the return is 5.6 p.c. on a 12|
p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 61s. lid.
Shareholders have good rea-
son to be satisfied with the
progress made by Adelaide-con-
trolled Pioneer Scheelile, N.L.,
to date. The co., which bought
leases containing tungsten-ore
deposits at Hatches Creek, Cen-
tralia, from Imperial Gold, took
off its coat in October, 1951,
ordered materials in the follow-
ing month, had camps estab-
lished and the mine dewatered
in March, 1952, and, with head-
frames and winding gear in-
stalled, began producing ore in
June. And now the mill,
originally scheduled for comple-
tion in December, has just
started up with its own generat-
ing-plant. Development is pro-
ceeding at the rate of about
400 ft. a month, and ore of and
above the grade anticipated has
been disclosed in quantities ex-
ceeding early estimates in the
upper levels. Costs have risen
substantially over the last 12
months, and the price of wol-
fram has eased. Still, with
things as they are, and provided
there is no hitch in milling and
recoveries, the co. looks like
winning satisfactory profits. Its
ss. shares have advanced from
4s. 4d. to Bs. Id. in the market
over the six months.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd, (paid
capital £127,500 in 10s. shares),
which is treating beach-sands at
Byron Bay (N.S.W.), reports a
profit of £27,077 (up £3112), or
21.2 p.c. on capital, for the year
to June 30 last, out of which a
15 p.c. div, (£19,125) was paid,
same as for the previous year.
Production, recovery and cost
figures are not broadcast. The
board says “Though production
was not as high as anticipated,
due to unfavorable weather con-
ditions, the co. was able to
achieve a satisfactory result
owing to the strong market
ruling for rutile.” Revival of
U.S., British and Continental
demand for the concentrates
stiffened the price, which has
recently shown a tendency to
ease, and placed Australian pro-
ducers in the happy position of
having to turn buyers away in-
stead of having to hunt for
them, as was the case a couple
of years ago. When the books
closed current assets totalled
£115,870 (of which £68,099 was
stores) and current liabilities
£43,826. The market prices the
scrip at 19s. as against 265. early
in 1952.
Broken Hill South, Ltd., is
investigating a silver-lead de-
posit recently discovered at
Liontown, about 28 miles s.-w.
of Charters Towers (Q.). Not
long ago the co. spent about
£35,000 on a similar hunt in the
Chillagoe district (Q.) without
success. Its big lead-zinc mine
at the Barrier (N.S.W.) is ex-
pected to be worked out in the
next 15 years or so.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The committee of the Lady Mayoress’s
Ball is appealing for contributions of
flowers to add to the decorations for the
ball to be held on Friday night. The
design for the floral decorations is to be
something quite outstanding. It will
include two fountains, and the committee
has been working like a colony of beavers
making tulips and fruit-blossom to act as
a background for the masses of fresh
flowers, which will be added at the last
moment. All contributions, from the
smallest posy to the largest sheaf the
garden will yield, are most heartily
solicited by the committee, who ask that
they be left in the Town Hall vestibule
any time between now and Friday morn-
ing.
The O’Deas are coming to the end
of their popular term of office, and every-
body is determined as a tribute to make
this Lady Mayoress’s Ball an absolutely
outstanding success. The guests, including
the Governor-General and Lady McKell,
the Premier and Mrs. J. J. Cahill, the
heads of the Services and many prominent
citizens will be received by the Lord
Mayor and Mrs. O’Dea. The Governor-
General and Lady McKell will receive the
round dozen of debutantes. There are still
some gallery seats available at 3s. for
those who wish to see this charming group
of debs against a background designed to
prove that Sydney really is a city of
gardens, if not, as many would wish, a
garden city.
The play by Warwick Fairfax, “Vintage
for Heroes,” staged at the Independent
theatre, had a very grand opening. The
first-nighters represented almost exclu-
sively fashionable society and the Arts,
fashion predominating. This talk- and
thought - provoking Australian play
delighted some and puzzled others. Dur-
ing the intervals clusters of elegantly-
dressed women and their soberly-attired
escorts nattered vigorously about its philo-
sophic inferences. The author, who made
a pleasant and somewhat shy speech after
the final curtain, was accompanied by his
wife and his mother, Lady Fairfax. Mrs.
Fairfax, who assisted Ethel Gabriel in
designing the costumes, was busy behind
the scenes from time to time in doing
a little last-minute supervision of dressing.
She looked both elegant and charming in
navy taffeta topped with a silver-fox stole.
The frocking was about evenly divided
between full-length and short evening-
gowns. Mrs. Noel Vincent’s short black
tulle was covered by a full-length mink
coat. Mrs. Ernest Watt and Mrs. Lennox
Bode also favored the short frock, while
the younger group decided in favor of
ballerina - length, crinoline - petticoated
glamor.
The Great Hall of Sydney University
was a brave sight on Friday night whqn
64 nurses were invested as foundation
Fellows of the N.S.W. College of Nursing.
It was an impressive ceremony. The
Chancellor, Sir Charles Bickerton Black-
burn, made the investiture before a large
number of guests, many in academic
robes. The college was formed three years
ago for post-graduate work in the nursing
profession.
All the nurses wore a becoming long-
robe of crimson flannel, specially designed
for the ceremony, and which will in future
be officially recognised as the uniform
for formal wear. Many of those invested
have distinguished military and civil
records, including eight who hold the
Royal Red Cross. Matron C. A. Fall,
principal matron of the Royal Australian
Army Nursing Corps, Eastern Command,
who is also in charge of the King George
V Hospital for Women and Children,
received her R.R.C. for work in the field.
As matron of the first contingent of
Australian nurses to go overseas she
administered the staff of 50 who served
in Palestine and the Middle East. A
member of the Naval Nursing Staff,
Sister E. J. Lawrie, now deputy-matron
at Royal Prince Alfred, is another
R.R.C.-holder. All of these 64 women
have rendered splendid service to the
community.
It seems pretty safe to bet that Mr,
Eugene Goossens will be, present at the
“Tales of Hoffmann” production at the
Con.’ starting on Saturday night. Not
only is he a vice-patron of the produc-
tion, but the “Tales” happens to be his
favorite opera, and his daughter, Sidonie,’
will be playing the harp in the orchestra.
It is expected that this production will be
a really first-class one, with Ivan Rixon
as its director and Mina Shelley as
producer.
The City of Sydney Eisteddfod goes
from strength to strength. In 1946 the
entries numbered 12,600, rising through
the intervening years to a record of 18,500
this year. An extraordinarily large
number of these have come from country
areas. Miss M. Gunn, the organising-
secretary, who takes a keen personal
interest in the troubles as well as the
successes of the competitors, spoke feel-
ingly of 11-year-old Barry Waters, of
Kempsey, who earned so much praise
from the adjudicators for his singing in
the Kempsey Eisteddfod that the people
of Kempsey planned to try him out at the
Sydney gathering before deciding his
future training. Barry was prevented at
the last minute from competing by a
severe attack of jaundice.
Singleton had a success with young
lan Russell, son of a farmer who finds
time to teach his son the violin ; Lismore
with Ken Sidway; Corrimal with Shirley
Crowther, first in the Roy Agnew
Memorial Contest; Goulburn with
Judith Jeffres; Cowra with Brian Kurts.
Broken Hill High School scooped the
prize for sacred two-part songs, and there
are hosts of other country centres produc-
ing talent that wins eisteddfod prizes. The
introduction this year of seven sections,
including music, verse-speaking, Braille-
reading and oratory limited entirely to
blind contestants, aroused a good deal of
interest. The choir of St. Lucy’s School
for the Blind at Homebush, reinforced by
a few singers with sight, won the non-
school choral contest. The adjudicator
was unaware until after the award that
the majority of the singers were sightless.
It was nice to hear the spontaneous cheer-
ing of the other competing choirs when
the award was announced. All this inten-
sive research into Australian talent goes
on during the eisteddfod in 24 different
halls serviced by a hard-working band of
25 adjudicators. No wonder Miss Gunn
is already working on next year’s plans
before this year’s competitions are over.
Here is Hugh Spencer’s portrait of
Denise D’Ombrain, daughter of the late
Dr. E. A. D’Ombrain and of Mrs.
D’Ombrain, of Chatswood, who has
announced her engagement to Dr. R. S. A.
Heron, son of Mr. R. S. A, Heron, of
Greenfield, Katesbridge, County Down,
Ireland. She is sailing on December 2
for England, where the wedding will take
place. Plans include settling there for a
while after the wedding.
If, organising for your pet charity, you
are determined to sell every ticket, get
after the shipping companies for enter-
tainment-space on a ship in port. Two
such affairs took place last week aboard
the Neptunia, one in aid of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, the other for Sydney Day
Nurseries. Both were dinner-dances, and
both had to refuse further tickets weeks
before the event. Space is more limited,
of course, but on the other hand not even
the printing of a ticket is wasted, which is
every organiser’s ambition. Captain
Paletti, with the' president of the St,
Vincent’s ladies’ auxiliary, Mrs, Tom
Bateman, and Dr. Bateman received the
guests on the first night, including the
Italian Minister to Australia, Dr, S.
Daneo, and Signora Daneo. Mrs, Frank
Louat, one of Sydney’s most popular
organisers, as president of the Day
Nurseries Spring Dance helped Mrs.
W. P. McElhone, president of the associa-
tion, receive their guests. Cocktails were
served before dinner, dancing followed,
and it was generally agreed that the even-
ing spent at Walsh Bay was a most enjoy-
able way of aiding deserving charities.
There will be a meeting on September
30 at the Blind Institute, corner of
William-street, of the Black and White
Ball committee. This is the last meeting
before the ball on October 7, and all those
interested are reminded to go along and
assist with the final arrangements for
what promises to be one of the best yet
of these annual functions in aid of
Sydney’s blind people.
From Melbourne
Two-hundred young people were invited
by Sir Dallas Brooks and Lady Brooks
to the dance given at Government House
by the Governor’s private secretary.
Colonel R. W. Spraggett, and Mrs.
Spraggett, in honor of their daughter
Anne, who celebrated her 21st birthday.
Great bowls of spring flowers and clusters
of balloons in multi-colors decorated the
State drawing-room, A seven-tiered
birthday-cake was the dominant note in
the State dining-room, where a buffet-
supper was served. The Governor took the
first dance with the guest-of-honor. Pink
roses were set in the soft drapings of the
powder-blue silk chiffon gown worn by
Lady Brooks. Similar draping was looped
just above the hemline of the skirt.
Anne’s charming white tulle gown had a
diagonal band of folded tulle around the
wide skirt, at knee-length. Cascading
down one side of the skirt were white
tulle roses. Narrow flounces of black
Chantilly lace were on Mrs. Spraggett’s
white chiffon gown. Elizabeth Northcott,
daughter of N.S.W.’s Governor, wore
pink-champagne brocade on crinoline
lines and a wide bow in front finished the
deep fichu neckline. Heather Menzies was
attractive in a slim gown of turquoise-
blue taffeta checked in black and cream.
Jane Chirnside wore palest - grey
chiffons, Roslyn Rowell pastel-pink
organdie, Marion McPherson’s choice
was aqua-blue satin, Angela Cass danced
in white satin, Margaret Russell in navy
tulle which had white braiding and a wide
scarlet sash. Sally Hardman’s pink tulle
frock was splashed with sequin-centred
tulle rosettes. Mrs. T. T. Hollway’s ice-
blue tulle was worn with a matching
stole, Mrs. Norman Wheeler wore satin in
a royal-blue toning, Mrs. Brian Lewis
black crepe romaine. Mrs. Patrick Ryan’s
black tulle gown had a wide, ruffled skirt
and jet-embroidered shoulder-straps.
Mrs. Gordon Darling’s frock of white
ripple chiffon had drapings on the skirt.
Sue Guest’s pale-primrose tulle was
embroidered with matching silk roses.
On the opening day of the Royal Show
Mrs. A. G. Hunter, wife of the president
of the Royal Agricultural Society, enter-
tained many guests at luncheon. The
hostess wore with her black-and-white-
check suit a grey-felt beret. Among her
guests were Mrs. Peter Ronald, who
topped her blue-and-brown bird’s-eye-
tweed suit with a brown beret; Mrs.
Owen Moore in camelhair coat and
matching beret; Mrs. Ken Luke, who
added a beret in citron yellow to her
beige coat; Mrs. H. A. Mullett, whose
husband is Director of Agriculture ; Mrs.
H. L. Lyall, Mrs. Eric Russell, Mrs. J.
Boothby, Lady Angliss, Florence Mitchell
and Alison Stephens.
The Battle for Britain Ball at the
Royale, organised by the Australian Air
Force Women’s Association, netted a
fair swag for its Memorial Scholarship
Fund. Earlier in the day at Laverton, in
an impressive ceremony, the Queen’s
colors had been presented to the
R.A.A.F. by the Minister for Air. Tall
white candles glowed in silver candelabra
on the flower-strewn official table, while
in the foyer stood a perspex model of
the plane of the future. Solemn reminder
of the Battle for Britain was the
illuminated replica of a stained-glass win-
dow erected in the Rolls Royce factory
in England, which honors the men who
kept England from invasion. The Gov-
ernor-General, Sir William McKell, and
his daughter Betty were received by Mrs.
E. C. Wackett, Federal president of the
Air Force Women’s Association, and
Air Vice-Marshal Wackett. Betty Mc-
Kell’s gown of grey brocade was pat-
terned in a floral design of pastel pink
and black. Mrs. Wackett’s silver-grey
brocades featured a wide skirt of un-
pressed pleats. Chief of the Air Staff,
Sir Donald Hardman, was accompanied
by his daughter Sally, whose pretty frock
of ice-blue nylon tulle was worn with a
matching bolero trimmed with toning
opalescent sequins.
With Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins
was Lady Collins, whose lovely gown
of haze-blue faille had a bustle, and the
bodice left bare one shoulder. Mrs. F. N.
Wright, president of the ball committee,
wore deep-rose-pink French faille screen-
printed with Mona Lisa faces in deep
navy. Mrs. Frank Bladen’s gown of
black tulle had a three-tiered skirt, and
the long bodice was embroidered in
white silk. The wife of Squadron-
Leader C. Kemal, Air Attache for
Pakistan, wore colorful national dress.
Mrs. Richard Williams, wife of Air-
Marshal , Williams, wore oyster-satin
brocade. Pastel-pink satins were the
choice of Mrs. A. M. Charlesworth. Mrs.
John Sullivan, wife of the U.S. Army
Air Force Attache, wore hyacinth-blue
tulle. The wife of Air-Marshal George
Jones wore a frock of dove-grey satin
pin-spotted in black. Mrs. lan Mc-
Lachlan’s white faille gown was embel-
lished with black sequins. Mrs. Dal
Charlton’s pastel-blue satin gown fea-
tured a deep cape collar crossed at the
back of the waist and edged with large
gold sequins. Mrs. Bruce Rose danced
in sky-blue tulle.
A last busy week for Mrs. Rufus
Ramey, wife of the former U.S. Military
Attache, Colonel Rufus Ramey, before
their departure included a farewell at the
monthly meeting of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital, when president Mrs. Earl Daum
presented Mrs. Ramey with a silver
spoon ; a luncheon at the Victoria League
Club given by Mrs. S. F. Rowell, wife of
the Chief of the General Staff; then a
party at the Caulfield home of Mrs.
Gerald Bacon, who is president of the
American branch of the Australian Red
Cross (Mrs. Ramey was vice-president).
Among other guests were Mrs. R. W.
Blake, who represented the Canadian
Women’s Club, Mrs. Charles Burge, Mrs.
Dan Reddan, Mrs. Robert Macklin, Mrs,
J. Middleton, wife of the newly-appointed
U.S. Military Attache, Mrs. Claude
Deems, Mrs. Charles Bacon, Mrs. Hany
Cavanaugh and Panf Wiggatt.
Mrs. Con Curtain, pictured here, is
well known for her energetic work on
numerous committees. For three years
she was a member of the Burke Hall
ladies’ committee, and is a foundation
member of the White Ensign Club (the
club provides recreation for sailors on
leave). Also a worker for St. Vincent’s
Maternity Hospital, Mrs. Curtain was
one of tire organisers for the recent suc-
cessful dinner-dance for Limbless Soldiers
and St. Vincent’s. A son is at Xavier
College. The Curtains’ lovely home at
Aspendale is a popular rendezvous.
Yellow, shading through to bright
citron tones, was a popular color at
Moonee Valley races. Next in popu-
larity came green; emerald, jade and
olive. These colors were used mostly for
hats and accessories ; one woman matched
hat, gloves and bag in citron-yellow and
wore them with black. Mrs. Brian
Breheny’s swing-back coat was of jade-
green wool. One smart racegoer teamed
a grey-and-white-check bolero suit and
an emerald-green stole. Another added
a black-fringed emerald-green stole to a
black suit and emerald hat. Mrs. John
Cain wore a jade-green hat with a short
jacket of black Persian-lamb and a black
frock. Yellow buttercups were pinned in
the lapel of the slate-grey-checked suit
worn by Mrs. Sue Cain; her flat beret
was in a lighter grey.
Royal Melbourne Hospital is appeal-
ing for eggs, and Egg Day is October 7.
Each week the hospital uses 840 dozen.
Because eggs are so easily digested they
are essential food for the sick, and help
greatly in the recovery of patients. Some
of the eggs are chilled for use during the
year and others are pulped. Last year
more than half the quantity needed by the
hospital was provided, thus saving the
management £4OOO. The hospital asks if
you will help by sending a donation of
either eggs or money on the day men-
tioned. Country parcels may be sent
freight-free to Spencer-street and Flinders-
street railway-stations, addressed to the
.Royal Melbourne Hospital Egg Appeal.
Eggs may also be left at the Kiosk, News-
paper House, 247 Collins-street. Shorn cl
there be any need for boxes to hold 25
dozen eggs these may be obtained from
Vivienne Betty Stephens, auxiliary
organiser (FO 266, Ext. 371).


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY RICHARD BELL late of 28
Ferguson Avenue Wiley Park. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE FLORENCE BELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2062
of 1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by sth December 1952 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. LIEBERMAN & TOBIAS.
Solicitors, of 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Do you like an
‘independent 3 spirit?
Our subject is whisky.
By which, of course, we
mean Scotch whisky. It is
generally agreed that
Scotland is the home of
good whisky. From
Scotland come all those
famous, world-known
whiskies.
To be precise, our subject
is one of the few remaining
independent
Scotch whiskies. In fact we
want to tell you about
ourselves. We are Bell’s,
independent distillers
since 1825.
Perth is our home town.
Whisky is our pride.
And, man, what whisky!
If you’ve a nose on you to
relish the subtle
smokiness of superlative
Scotch whisky; if you’ve a
tongue that can taste the
years* of maturing; if
your palate can appreciate
the blending of many
distillings to make
a perfect whole—if, in a
word, whisky is to you the
heart of the Highlands, its
barley-fields and peat
and moors, its glens and
tumbling burns—
you’re the very man for
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
,
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
(Me/.
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 182*
,0
BELtS
•MiiMUinunivt
imimuuJ
Huiimin im “ ,,u ‘
I d 'STILLERS Wh SCOT!
s>
too ~ ct &!£*£*
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
‘South Pacific”
Take the chief characters in
“Rusty Bugles,” Americanise
them into seabees, G.l.’s and
other guys of a construction unit
and shove in a few nurses in
odds and ends of clothing. Add
a Tonkinese procuress with the
arresting name of Bloody Mary,
and Ensign Nellie Forbush
(Marie La Roche), of Little
Rock, Arkansas, in love with a
French planter who is nothing
like a Frenchman and nothing
like a planter.
Dump them all down on a
Pacific island, marshal the Jap
Navy in the background as a
more-or-less sinister menace to
their love-affair, add pathos with
two illegitimate children of the
French planter, mix well, set on
one side to cool and then garnish
with light, bright and some-
times striking music and you
have “South Pacific,” which
J.C.W. has released on an ex-
pectant public at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne.
Another island should be
added to which the French
population has transferred its
women to escape the amorous
attention of the seabees, an in-
teresting item of war history nb
doubt dug up from the secret
archives of the U.S. Army. This
enforced asceticism, however,
has its uses—it makes the drama
almost painfully realistic and
provides the opportunity for a
roaring chorus about sax and
women which makes anything of
the same sort heard previously
in the theatre seem rather tame.
Romance has a suitable re-
ceptacle in the unbelievably
handsome and melodious per-
son of Richard Collett, who
is the answer to every
maiden’s prayer, as the middle-
aged planter who is a
refugee from France because he
killed a bully, but who makes
amends by dropping behind the
Jap lines and emerging with
some useful information. He is
also the answer to Nellie For-
bush’s quest for security and
marriage until she discovers the
existence of the children, but
that objection is ruled out in
time for the happy ending, and
they both go off to Little Rock,
Arkansas,
❖ ❖
“Vintage For Heroes”
It was here remarked of War-
wick Fairfax’s first play, “A Vic-
torian Marriage,” that “it had
the materials of witty farce or
intense drama... . with a
stronger driving force it might
have been more of one piece,
either more brilliant comedy or
more moving drama.”
That comment fits with re-
markable accuracy the author’s
second play, “Vintage For
Heroes,” produced by Dr.
Raoul Cardamatis at the Inde-
pendent Theatre, North Sydney,
and which has to do with the
enrichment of the soul by ex-
perience during its repeated re-
incarnations, The theme is
worked out in a prologue, three
acts and an epilogue. The pro-
logue introduces a journalist and
his friend lolling in the Italian
countryside in 1946 ; the body
of the play hops back to 216
b.c., at which time and in which
life the journalist was a young
man of Greek-Roman parentage
fighting with the Romans at the
Battle of Cannae.
He is no great shakes as a
soldier, but his presence is re-
garded as a possibly useful de-
fence against marauding bands
by a crippled Roman ex-officer,
who persuades him to linger at
his farm by offering the un-
sophisticated charms of his
daughter as encouragement. The
lingering is so delightful that
the young man eventually leaves
the girl with child and the
promise of marriage, but when
he returns to his Greek surround-
ings and Greek friends he is not
so sure about the Roman way
of life. His uncertainty results
in the Roman girl killing her-
self, an event which so shakes
him that he eventually tosses off
a noggin of hemlock himself.
The epilogue leaps back to
1946, by which time the young
man’s soul has benefited from
the tragedy to the extent that he
decides to marry the Italian
wench with whom he has been
sporting in the village.
Mr, Fairfax’s lesson comes
through rather dimly, mainly be-
cause he seems to have been in
two minds about the body of his
play. The first two acts have an
unmistakable atmosphere of
Shavian comedy about them, and
not only because William
Eldridge’s intellectual Roman-
Greek —“the soul of a poet with
the guts of a rabbit” —is very
like any of several of Shaw’s
young men. In fact, one had
almost settled down in pleasur-
able anticipation of a witty
little Shaw v. Kipling comedy
playing off the ways of the talka-
tive, intellectual and artistic
Greeks against the “stern hard
virtues of uncultured Republican
Rome.”
Then in the two scenes of his
last act Mr. Fairfax becomes un-
mistakably tragic, and, in fact,
quite moving as he plays on the
theme of “There’s nothing quite
so great as a noble death.”
So it could have been quite a
sparkling comedy, or a simple
tragedy, without the unnecessary
epilogue and prologue in either
case. But, even if life’s a mix-
ture of both, you can’t have it
both ways on the stage. The
light artificiality of the first two
acts leaves the tragedy of the
last act —and the theme of the
piece-high, dry and gasping.
The play is handsomely
staged and presented with
several good stretches of acting
—William Eldridge’s young man
is better in comedy than
tragedy: Rosamund Waring’s
Roman girl is good in both ; and
Ivan Vander’s Roman officer is
of excellent strength. Charles
Tasman’s ancient philosopher is
inclined to woof in his beard;
Diana Davidson makes a lovely,
lovely Greek; Minnie Love
appears briefly and solely for
the purposes of comedy; and
Paul McNaughton has one
admirable appearance as a bluff
and hearty Roman.
4* 4* 4*
Man v. Monster
When Marcel Dupre, the noted
organist of Saint Sulpice in Paris,
was in Melbourne, a councillor
with a passion for organ music
and strong suspicions about that
monstrous conglomeration of
largely superfluous gadgets, the
Town Hall organ, asked him to
write a report upon it. Dupre
filled dozens of foolscap pages,
ending with the expressive
phrase (in French) “This organ
is dangerous to the player.”
The council did not act on the
report, which is a way with
councils, so the organ is still pre-
sumably dangerous to the player,
who, lately, was John Eggington,
the Melbourne organist of whom
that shrewd judge Dr. Floyd said
when he played in his ’teens at
St. Paul’s Cathedral, “This boy
has genius.” That judgment has
since had extraordinary con-
firmation in France and Eng-
land, where Eggington is re-
garded as a phenomenally gifted
master.
He certainly appeared to
master with ease the Melbourne
monster, which sounded pro-
found in Bach’s Prelude and
Fugue in G Major, almost
ludicrously genteel in Handel’s
Concerto No. 4 in F Major, and
as playful as a kitten in Men-
delssohn’s Sonata in F Minor.
The loveliest part of the pro-
gramme was Cesar Franck’s
Choral in A Minor. Here the
instrument which is dangerous
to the player was so completely
cowed that it sometimes hardly
spoke above a whisper,
4* ❖ 4*
The Mobil Quest Finalists’
concert packed Sydney Town
Hall to the doors, something
which no visiting celebrity this
season was able to achieve.
There have never been so many
good voices available for big
competitions, and the standard
generally in this fourth quest
has been high, particularly
among the girls. On the night,
the coloratura soprano Marjorie
Conley easily won the honors
for quality of voice and her
effortless use of it. She was
placed equal third. The winner.
Donald Smith, has a natural
strong tenor, but he overdoes
the emotion and the spectacular,
high-level fortissimo to the
point that he has insufficient in
reserve for an aria’s smooth
continuity.
Artbursts
Douglas Watson
Douglas Watson’s paintings at
the Macquarie Galleries, Syd-
ney, show some of the same
characteristics as Jeff Smart’s
recent Sydney exhibition —too
much reliance for effect on out-
line, color and pattern and not
enough concern with 'the sub-
stance of things, be it flesh or
stone ; and the painting of an
exaggerated light to give the
effect of brilliant stage illumina-
tion.
In Watson’s case the result is
that most of his paintings of
buildings in Paris and London
look more like colored paper
cut-outs than substantial things
of stone, brickwork or plaster.
“London Backyards” has some
depth and atmosphere.
This same unconcern with the
substance comes out in his por-
traits and a nude:' at first glance
the portraits look like good im-
pressions, but on close inspec-
tion the paint is thin and there
is no suggestion of flesh and
bone beneath the surface; the
flesh of the nude is like a moun-
tain of lifeless wax. >
❖ ❖ ❖
Wirework
Wendy Soiling’s exhibition of
“sculpture” at David Jones’s
Gallery consists mainly of wire
bent and twisted into such recog-
nisable forms as “Bullocky and
His Whip,” “Polo Players,”
“Englishman on Horseback” and
others. Exactly what artistic
purpose this doodling in three
dimensions serves is difficult to
say. Technical skill plus obser-
vation are the two essentials in
any art form; Miss Soiling
demonstrates a certain facility in
working with wire, but her
observation does not appear to
be anything out of the ordinary.
❖ ❖ ❖
The N. S. Wales National
Gallery is featuring a very
nicely-arranged display of fac-
simile reproductions of Da
Vinci drawings, which serve to
demonstrate some of the amaz-
ing skill and observation of the
master and to remind one that
it is the quality of those things
and not various fashionable
“styles” that distinguish one
artist from another.
Talkies
“Macao”
On the Oriental set of
“Macao” (Sydney Plaza), Brad
Dexter, a gambling-house pro-
prietor and criminal evading
extradition and all that, is visited
by Jane Russell and all those.
In the same boat with her come
Robert Mitchum, knocking
about the Orient because he
almost knocked-off a dame in
the States, and William Bendix,
>a traveller in cigars.
Some time ago Dexter has
killed a U.S. cop, and he knows
that one of the three visitors
will be an American detective
seeking to lure him outside the
three-mile limit. But which is
the detective? Miss Russell
might make a better detective
than a night-club singer;
Mitchum might be able to act
as someone other than Mitchum ;
Bendix might be taking a holi-
day from the police force. Who
knows?
Chinese throw knives and
gamble, but the biggest plunge
is Gloria Grahame’s neckline;
and after some derring-do on a
motor-boat Mitchum and Miss
Russell decide to reform each
other, no doubt feeling that in
love, as in all things, practice
makes perfect.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Clouded Yellow”
This neat and taut little
mystery item at Sydney Embassy
has to do with a dismissed
British secret-service agent who
retires to the peaceful occupa-
tion of cataloguing butterflies
only to find himself on the run
with a beautiful young woman
wrongly hunted for murder.
With Trevor Howard giving a
nicely casual performance as the
ex-agent and Jean Simmons
looking quite bewitching as the
girl; and with the secret service
chasing the secret service
through the cities, around the
docks and over hills, waterfalls
and whatnot it all makes up into
a busy hour or so of suspense.
*> 4* 4*
“Hoodlum Empire”
Inspired by the Kefauver In-
quiry, this film on organised
crime uses the flashback tech-
nique overmuch. Early war
scenes depicting the reformation
of a gangster are sugared with
Hollywood hooey, but there-
after the script tightens and the
dialogue in the Senate-inquiry
scenes becomes quite crisp. Brian
Donlevy eschews his usual
strong-arm stuff to become an
incisively probing chairman try-
ing to pin down the slimy
Italianite vice tycoon, who in
turn is trying to switch the
charges to his erstwhile col-
league, the Army hero.
+♦♦ ♦>
“Sheltering Palms”
Mr. William Lundigan is the
commanding-officer of a' small
U.S. occupation detachment on
a Technicolored Pacific island in
“Down Among the Sheltering
Palms” at Sydney Park. His
main task is keeping a few hun-
dred island belles away from his
men in compliance with a non-
fraternisation instruction, an
order which he attempts to exe-
cute by encouraging ping-pong
and the like among the ranks
and by setting a model example
himself.
The last part of his plans is
complicated by the missionary’s
beautiful niece (Jane Greer), the
gift of a wife (Mitzi Gaynor)
from'the island’s chief and the
visit of woman newspaper-
columnist (Gloria DeHaven),
whose advances he scorns with
rather reckless prodigality. The
Technicolor is the only really
bright thing about the show,
except for the appearance of that
old master, Billy Gilbert, as the
island’s chief.


HIGH FINANCE
(R.S. PORTEOUS)
MADANG dozed in the
midday heat. Along the
foreshore road where the
houses of the few white
residents nestled among the huge
rain-trees, in the crowded native
quarter and in the port’s in-
evitable Chinatown, no living
creature stirred. It was as if the
inhabitants of this sleepy little
tropical port had fled before
some nameless terror, taking
refuge in the jungle or in the
foothills of the towering, cloud-
capped mountains beyond.
“You’d think,” I said, moving
aft to watch Rusty as he conned
the native helmsman through the
harbor entrance, “that they were
all dead.”
Rusty grinned. “I’ll wake ’em
up,” he assured me. “Some of
’em will wish they were dead
before we sail.”
I didn’t doubt it. My big
skipper had a habit of waking
up any port he called at. The
clatter of his anchor-cable going
down or the report that his
schooner had been sighted off-
shore were enough to start
planters and Government
officials thinking up new ways of
placatir*'' wives who frowned on
excessive drinking. The man was
irresistible. His broad engaging
grin embraced allcomers and
swept them along with him,
usually to their undoing.
And as for me,, I’d resigned
myself to the inevitable hang-
over. There was no dodging it.
I’d signed on as mate of the
Islander, and in so doing I’d
committed myself to this
boisterous big pirate’s way of
living for as long as I stayed with
him.
It might be as well to explain
that Rusty Martin and I were
not master and mate in the
ordinary sense of the word. For
one thing he didn’t need a mate.
Yagura, his Papuan boss-boy,
combined the duties of bosun
and mate more efficiently than
any white man could have done,
for not only was he a splendid
seaman but he looked on Rusty
as a sort of god. Again, Rusty
was not paying me. I was a
steamship man, and I’d shipped
with him to gain a more intimate
knowledge of the islands. He
took his schooner into places
where no steamer had ever been,
snug anchorages and rivers that
were not even correctly charted.
One day the knowledge I was
gaining would come in handy to
me ; and in the meantime this
was a good way to spend an
enforced holiday. Rusty, with
his boisterous love of life, his
familiarity with every detail of
the New Guinea coast and of
native customs and dialects, was
an ideal companion.
For his part he was glad to
have me —as a companion. He
needed an audience for his
stories, ; and someone to share
his insatiable zest for living life
to the full. He wanted someone
who could sing the praises of his
schooner. That, I suppose, was
only natural, for, especially under
sail, she was a thing of sheer
beauty —a description that could
never be applied to her owner.
Downright ugly would best
describe him. But it was an
attractive ugliness, a lined,
weatherbeaten crag of a face,
ageless and altogether likeable.
“We’ll tie up alongside the
wharf,” he announced, “and pay
our social respects to the town.”
I ’D never regarded Madang as
1 a gay port, but within half an
hour of stepping ashore we
realised that it was-even more
stagnant than usual. From
various reports we gathered that
the place was suffering a severe
financial depression. Every man
was weighed down with his own
worry, worries that may have
seemed trivial to an outsider.
But to these men, fever-ridden
and cut off from the outside
world except for the visit of the
steamer every six weeks, they
loomed disproportionately large.
Stoddart, the Acting District
Officer, for instance, was worried
because Rabaul had forwarded
him no silver by the last steamer,
and now he was embarrassingly
low. There was no bank in
Madang, and he must have silver
to pay the native laborers.
Mailing, who managed the local
branch of a big company’s store,
was worried about his job.
Against the advice of the com-
pany’s inspector he had ordered
a quantity of roofing-iron. That
was nearly a year ago, and the
iron still lay unsold in his bulk-
store. Company-inspectors are
not noted for their compassion,
and this particular one would
undoubtedly take pleasure in
reminding Mailing of his advice.
If he arrived on the next steamer
and found the iron still unsold —
finish!
It gave Mailing no pleasure to
remind himself that old Sandy
McDonough, the local engineer
and odd-job man, wanted that
iron to roof his workshop. Old
Mac hadn’t the money to pay
for it, and he was a hard old
Scot who neither asked for nor
gave credit. That was his code,
rigid and inflexible.
Up at the port’s only hotel the
publican was wishing he had
lived by the same strict code.
There were too many accounts
owing ; too much going out and
far too little coming in. Even
Harry Dowd owed him money,
and, though normally a man who
paid his debts promptly, Dowd
was at present in serious trouble.
He’d run his schooner on a coral
reef, badly damaging her pro-
peller and stern gland. The only
man who could repair her was
Sandy McDonough, and Sandy
derqanded payment before he
hauled the schooner up on his
slip.
Buying drinks for everyone,
Rusty laughed at their worries.
In his early days on the coast, he
told them, he’d been broke so
often that the novelty had com-
pletely worn off. He did, how-
ever, call Harry Dowd aside.
Dowd was a fellow-seaman and
his trouble was serious.
“How much will it cost to
square-up the damage?” he
asked.
Ruefully Dowd said “Old Mac
has quoted me fifty-quid. He’d
start work on it tomorrow —if I
had the cash.” He shrugged his
shoulders and stared moodily
around the bar. “Where the
hell am I going to get fifty-
quid?”
Rusty’s reassuring pat on the
back nearly knocked Dowd off
his feet. “Come down to the
Islander in the morning,” he said;
“I’ll write you a cheque.” Ignor-
ing Dowd’s profuse thanks he
laughed heartily and turned to
order another round of drinks,
as if the lending of fifty pounds
without a scrap of security was
something not worth taking
seriously. But Rusty was like
that big-hearted, easygoing,
regarding life as one colossal
joke. No wonder he was
popular.
I don’t know what time we got
back aboard that night; but
when I awoke next morning,
feeling decidedly the worse for
wear, Dowd was just going
ashore with Rusty’s cheque in
his pocket.
“A good bloke,” Rusty said,
waving one huge paw towards
the retreating figure. “But no
flamin’ enterprise. Freights
copra from a few plantations to
Madang. Same plantations,
same cargo all the year round.
In a groove. Might as well be a
blasted bus-driver.”
I’m afraid I wasn’t interested
in Dowd’s business, or in anyone
else’s for that matter. All I
wanted was to get away from
Madang before my insatiable
skipper started on another spree.
One more night like last night,
I felt, and the prohibitionists
would have another convert.
HOWEVER, I .needn’t have
worried. Somewhere, some-
how, during the previous evening,
Rusty had been talking business.
He’d arranged for a cargo, he
informed me, a highly satis-
factory cargo. We’d be sailing
before dark. I thanked my stars
for that. And I thanked them
also for the fact that Rusty never
drank at sea.
Our “cargo,” it transpired,
consisted of fifty Sepik natives
who had finished their three-year
indenture and were to be
returned to their villages. What
better could we wish for, Rusty
inquired. Recruiting native labor
was a highly-profitable business,
and the charter for the return of
this lot would pay expenses and
take us far up the Sepik River,
an extensive and almost
untapped recruiting area.
“Blokes don’t like takin’ their
schooners up the river,” Rusty
explained. “They don’t like the
Sepik and they don’t like the
natives. Slowed if I know why.
I get on all right with ’em.”
I certainly didn’t like the look
of the fifty who came aboard
that afternoon. With their dax’k
Semitic features and their bodies
disfigured by the crudest of tribal
markings they looked as if head-
hunting would be a mild recrea-
tion for them. But by the time
we reached the mouth of the
Sepik I’d decided that they were
the most docile lot of passengers
any shipmaster could wish for.
By day they squatted quietly
about the deck, and by night
they slept in a solid mass in the
hold.
We carried a fair wind with
us all the way up the coast; and
when Kadowar and Blup Blup
Islands came into line we stood
in for the low gash in the
mangrove-clad coast. The water
here was no longer blue, but
mud-colored and littered with
debris from this mighty stream.
Once we rounded the first bend
our sails were useless, and with
engine alone the Islander could
scarcely make headway against
the current. With Yagura at the
wheel and Rusty conning him we
crawled painfully upstream, hug-
ging banks in an effort to dodge
the worst of the current.
This, I felt, was one experi-
ence I could well have done with-
out. Progress and civilisation
might reach out to many distant
places, but they would never,
never trouble the Sepik. The
river poured its muddy way be-
tween walls of black-trunked
mangroves. Higher up-river the
(i Continued on page 22.)
Song For Our Sister . .
NANCY KEESING
Compressed beneath frozen years the ices are softening,
time’s glacier inches towards an appointed disclosure,
and small half-memory rubbish—shed stones —sounds warn-
ing,
splashing in sea, that the hidden progresses to exposure.
The frigid body preserved in immutable torment
has never been seen since it froze, but the way of the ice
is known, and somewhere towards the moraine moves the
moment
of an infinitesimal mammoth in a liquefying gneiss
that time expanding and contracting forces to the fracture,
shatters from its mould; the feature of pre-history
just as . . . no . . . recognisable, not the picture
retained through our aeons. One had forgotten the mystery
shuddering at youth’s back: and the absolute innocence
of gaze: this awe-ful desire; this shivering purity.
Sea-softened now these features are released as challenges
never to be re-frozen, to regain obscurity.
What fiery kiss from what Beast or what pity
shall sort this shape from this stiff tangled clutch?
Inexorably here is the very body of Beauty
enravelled in cold being beautiful overmuch.
We shall cover her close until the time of the moon
that light may filter slowly through her brittle skin
and store in the caverns of her flesh: so the strong siun
be cancelled by and kindle the coal within.
Oh sister, sister, sister we had forgotten
we too were closed in your sleep s finality,
our bones ache also, our flesh as deep frost-bitten
as yours from our snowy vigil with reality.
How shall we tell you of our sister now awakening?
She is any girl—the one on the ferry, train, bus
whose face you know, but who by conventional reckoning
is stranger, lacks introductional sanction, the fuss
of having the name spelt, the smile and the handshake.
She is melting to life to become the only woman
you ever can know—her anonymity s cloak
enfolds her separate being to you, separate human.
Do you see now that she deserved her .glacial torment?
Why the poles, for her, released their .cold infection,
why a continent came to burial sealing her ferment
and the way of the world’s stored heat that unleashed the
deception?
O sister, sister, sister, how may we answer
that ichor of moon and sun transfused to your veins?
The fossil is unaware of its chiselled transfer
from dark to light—no fossil cries and strains
of itself from its metamorphosis to stone.
You are brittle, sister, but you have lips to abuse
or forgive. Ah we had forgotten the grave and green
transparency of your gaze. How these eyes accuse!
We move our hands in belief and in supplication;
your hands move also, being question and its solution.
We bend our heads in acknowledgment and contrition,
your head nods too, our damnation and absolution.
You are our like and its opposite, prayer and its granting.
How best to cherish and keep time s terrible token
from time’s own sly left hand, his treacherous squinting,
from the words best left unuttered but already spoken?
We are our sister’s betrayal, her clouded mirror,
for how else shall she know her face but in its reflection.
When she stirs towards her image she becomes our horror
and is merged: to one triune unity, one deception.
Tell us, you citizens who have seen her face so often
shall we compact with evil time and run from the creature.
When she stirs and speaks shall we refuse to listen?
Or say to Ker, **One is the past, one present, one uture,
"And one, oh my sweet unconsciousness, like old parchment
though indisputably lovely must crumble, grow rotten
while a clear white page waits honesty or impeachment.
Oh, sister, sister, sister so soon forgotten
the way of the splintering pack of the frozen years,
irrevocable heat’s explosion in desolate lands.
There is no time now to wait for ponderous answers.
Sister, come walk with us: we offer our hands.
We have paid your fare, for you the turnstiles swing.
For you the dynamos hummed and the engines roared,
(°r you the propeller. thres.Ked. AH wheel. are tr.rn.ng.
For you the uniformed guard shouts, Hurry aboard.


PRODUCTS OFTHI
RootesJ
r.oniiD^m
■V n
-
<5s£2S
~
*****
* V •
: %
■{ t
, 'Wii;
ft /'
1 <» <r.i
fißfe
hm
wm-
m
lii
Jill
*
-i A
I - M
::; . I
i
■
pi
m
m a
Ik
■:A'
301
■s * &«
* •
' -, jaaii r** -r *-t
warn
V
■ ■:... - •
■ •
mWmM
v ■
_ - j. ■
i— |w
'. ■» . , AM 1 -
HP p p i
pi#
Pi
*•
:
»i «
■■
&■**
i ■ ;
-> wwawife
I
KPW**
■I
IIP"!
feH
;
■ ■
; .'; ■ :
-if
c X*
set
fsd
f
a"
it'
O' 5
\eP
pe»
ThE Australian factory of the Rootes Group at Fishermen’s
Bend, Victoria, is a guarantee that the Rootes standard of craftsmanship
is maintained on the spot by skilled Australian workers. It ensures that
Rootes Distributors and their Dealers are able to offer
competent service by factory-trained mechanics, quick availability of
genuine parts, and factory-rebuilt units for speedy re-fitting.
Designed for the roads of the world-proved on the roads of Australia
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT
COMMER, KARRIER, VULCAN, TILLING-STEVENS


This is what WEmean by BETTER HAY
with the ROTO-BALER!
Rolled Hay Holds
More Leaves
Extra £2/10/- a Ton
CONSIGNMENT of lucerne hay made
an extra £2/10/- per ton at auction in
the Brisbane markets on October 23 be-
cause a new baling method had kept
leaves intact.
as
n.
es.
users
e tube
owners*
Cyl.»
rice
king
'5l
t
The Roto-Baler rolling up Messrs. Brent’s lucerne crop at Bunjurgen, Boonah.
room
unde,
whir/
cat
The lucerne had been
baled in rolls by the new
Roto-Baler and brought
•£25/10/- per ton. Rec-
tangular bales from the
same crop, and baled on
the same day, brought
£23 per ton.
The lucerne was grown
by Messrs. J. and L.
Brent, of Bunjurgen,
Boonah, on what is
regarded as good dry
lucerne country. The
crop had not been irri-
gated and yielded one
ton per acre. Mr. Len
Brent said there was no
difference in the quality
of the lucerne in the
consignments, as both
came off the one field and
were harvested by the
two different methods on
the same day.
Before Mr. P. J. Skinner
auctioned the hay in the
Roma Street markets he
unrolled sample bales of
the roto-baled hay. Buyers
were impressed by the
absence of “leaf shatter,”
all leaves and flowers still
being intact on each
stalk. The Roto-Baler
rolls up the windrow in a
rotary action, each layer
sealing the preceding one.
The bale length is always
36 inches, but two adjust-
ments control the com-
pactness and diameter of
the bale, which can he
made large or small in
diameter, heavy or light
in weight.
Speed is from 120 to
140 60-lb. bales per
hour under reasonably
good conditions. The
machine is worked by the
tractor operator, unless it
is desired to knot the
twine, but knots are not
required to withstand
bale compression, as
each bale is a self-con-
tained package which,
after the required dia-
meter is reached, con-
tinues to spin while it
is spirally wrapped with
binder twine.
Bales made this way
unroll like a carpet, with
no bent or doubled stalks,
and very little forking is
needed in distributiori.
Reproduced from Qld. Country Life-—Oct. 25, 1951
AC
11/83.33,
fllilS- CHALMERS
Li:
T R A C T O R DIVISION
mangroves gave way to wild
sugarcane and nipa-palms, but
after a while we saw nothing but
vast, dreary swamplands—the
home of the spiny, repulsive-
looking sago-palm, of crocodiles
and countless snarling hordes of
mosquitoes. An unlovely, evii-
smelling, fever-ridden area, a
good place to keep clear of.
Yet people lived here. We
had proof of that in the fifty
local lads squatting on our deck,
clutching their bundles of trade
goods and chattering excitedly as
the first village came in sight.
Like every other village we came
to, this one was built on a low
mound only a few feet above the
river banks. The thatched
houses stood on long stilt-like
legs so that the fioodwaters
would run beneath the floors.
Day after day we battled up-
stream against the current, stop-
ping at each village to disembark
a few natives until the last one
was delivered. At night we
anchored, sweltering under nets
in a vain effort to get away from
the clouds of whining
mosquitoes.
“How much longer are you
going to stay in this stinking
river?” I asked Rusty the night
after our last guest had been
delivered.
“Not long.” He slapped
viciously at his face and arms.
“Blast these mossies! There’s
more inside this net than out of
it. We’ll start downstream first
thing in the morning. With any
luck we’ll have a full load in a
week or ten days.”
He was wrong. Even I could
feel the sullen, hostile attitude
of the natives when Rusty,
Yagura and I went ashore at the
first village. They showed no
interest in the trade goods—
colored laplaps, knives, axes and
fish-hooks —usually so dear to
their hearts.
“Time no good belong buyim
boy,” Yagura said.
AND Yagura knew what he
was talking about. The big
annual ceremony of marking the
youths was in progress. The
young men being initiated to
manhood were segregated in
special houses where they were
being “swallowed by the
crocodile.” It was a sacred
ceremony, and no women were
allowed near or even to know
what went on. In one village
we actually saw something of the
procedure, for a strong bond of
friendship existed between Rusty
and the old chief—a villainous-
looking old savage if ever I saw
one. The old chap took us to
the initiation-house and showed
us the youths with lines of cuts
down their backs and shoulders,
and whorls cut deep into their
breasts to represent the marks
of the spirit crocodile’s teeth.
Their bodies were smeared in a
local vegetable oil that must have
had some antiseptic value, as the
cuts were healing in raised scars
that would brand the men as
Sepiks for the rest of their lives.
And in the meantime all grown
men stood guard in the house
tambaran and no one went for
food, but lived on the sago stink-
ing and bubbling in the big
earthenware pots. Even in this
village, under the protecting
friendship of their chief, we
could sense the hostility of the
men.
“We’re wastin’ time,” Rusty
growled. “We’d better get away
from this bloody river before
they start carvin’ designs on us.”
A statement I heartily agreed
with. Until quite recently the
Sepik natives had been notorious
head-hunters, and although the
Administration claimed to have
stamped the practice out, both
Rusty and I had our doubts.
“What else is there to do in
this stinkin’ hole?” Rusty
reasoned. “If I had to live here
for a year or two I’d start makin’
a collection myself.”
We hove up next morning
and proceeded downstream at a
positively dizzying speed.
Villages and reed - covered
swamps slid past. We overtook
floating branches and whole
trees that rolled in the current,
waving the black fangs of broken
roots above the muddy water.
Sago- and nipa-palms gave way
to the dense monotony of man-
groves, and we were in the open
sea.
God, what a relief it was to
be clear of that foul river, to be
out on the open sea once more!
The clean, fresh limitless
expanse of it with its welcome
salt-spray streaming across our
deck, and its cooling breeze to
refresh our sweating, itching
bodies.
“Where to now?” I asked.
“Back to Madang,” Rusty
motioned me to the wheel and
told Yagura to get sail on.
“Have to get there before
steamer-day.”
He seemed worried, quite
despondent, as he stared moodily
at the now-distant coastline —
something quite new for him.
The voyage, of course, had been
a financial flop, but he’d had
other financial flops without
worrying over them. I was
wondering whether he was really
in difficulties when, surprisingly,
he said:
“I wonder how he’s making
out.”
“Who?” I asked.
“Harry Dowd. He ought to
have his schooner back in the
water now.”
I said “Yes,” and wondered if
Rusty was hoping for an early
repayment to square his own
accounts. Surely he hadn’t lent
Dowd his last fifty pounds! It
was quite possible, of course ;
the type of thing he would do.
It costs money to keep a
schooner afloat and working,
even with a native crew and fair
winds, and although the Islander
must have made a lot of profit-
able trips in her time her owner
had always been a free spender
—certainly not the type to save
up for a lean period. It struck
me that it would be more sensible
to try for recruits in some of the
near-by coastal villages than run
empty back to Madang in the
faint hope that Dowd had earned
enough to repay his loan. If I
knew anything of the profits to
be made in copra-freighting it
would be months before Dowd
was clear of debt. However, I
said nothing. Rusty, for once,
was in an inapproachable
mood,
WE returned to a surprisingly
different Madang, carefree
and with no financial problems.
It was some time before I heard
the full story of its recovery,
but when one came to reason it
out it was really amazingly
simple.
Dowd started the ball rolling
by going straight to Sandy
McDonough. The sooner he got
his schooner repaired the sooner
he could start to repay his debt.
He put his signature on the back
of Rusty’s cheque and presented
it to Mac —payment in advance.
They slipped the damaged
schooner that afternoon. When
the job was well in hand old Mac
paid a visit to Mailing at the
store. Now that he had the
money to pay for it, he wanted
the roofing-iron for his work-
shop delivered immediately.
Triumphantly he passed over
Rusty’s cheque, duly counter-
signed. Mailing scanned the
signatures and was satisfied.
Would Mac take other goods to
the total value of the cheque, he
asked? Very definitely Mac
would not. He’d take the balance
in cash. His board at the pub
would be due at the end of the
month, and he wasn’t going to
owe Connoly or anyone else
money.
In spite of the fact that the
transaction would leave him
short of ready cash Mailing was
delighted. The sale would vindi-
cate his judgment in the eyes of
his superiors—the inspector in
particular and the cheque
would come in handy as part-
payment of the Customs duties
his firm owed the Administra-
tion. Whistling cheerfully, he
added his signature to the others.
In the District Office Stoddart
duly received the cheque as part-
payment of Customs duties and
locked it in the safe. There it
lay until the end of the month,
when Judson, the clerk, came
across it. Judson, making up
pay-sheets for the police and
native laborers, needed silver
badly. The Administration
insisted that all natives must be
paid in silver, but the same
Administration had ignored his
last request for more.
It was some time before
Judson got his brainwave. The
sight of a carved chest in the
corner of the office did it. China-
town, of course! You’d never
catch the wily Chinaman running
short of the only currency the
natives understood. Judson
added the District Office stamp
to the signatures on the back of
Rusty’s cheque and reached for
his hat.
Ah Wee, the fattest and there-
fore the most prosperous China-
man in Madang, bowed as
Judson walked in. Against the
background of bright cloths
spread to catch the eyes of the
color-loving natives, Ah Wee
looked like a drab, slightly-
tarnished old image—paunchy,
silent and immovable. Slowly,
reluctantly, he took the cheque,
scanning it carefully both front
and back. Impossible to tell
what was going on behind that
bland oily mask of a face,
whether he distrusted the cheque
and would refuse to accept it or
whether he would simply declare
he hadn’t the silver in his shop.
“All li,” he said at last. “Can
do.” He unlocked his safe,
counted out the rolls of silver
and pushed them across to
Judson.
Actually Ah Wee was worried.
He wasn’t at all sure how his
stocks stood with the Adminis-
tration. If they were angry with
him or suspicious of his little
opium deals this demanding of
fifty pounds in exchange for a
battered, much-signed cheque
might be a white man’s subtle
way of getting square. Ah Wee
sighed. Not once had it entered
his head to refuse payment. The
Administration, in the form of
Judson, had demanded payment
and the Administration must be
obeyed, whatever the cost. But
before Judson had settled back
to his accounting Ah Wee was
chuckling quietly to himself. If
it came to a battle of wits, white
man versus Chinaman .. . Pains-
takingly he endorsed the cheque.
Two days later Mailing
received payment of Ah Wee s
account with his firm.
DOWD, meantime, had got his
schooner off the slips and
gone back to the dull mono-
tonous round of copra-freighting.
Not for .him the lure of unknown
shores and the vagaries of
recruiting. As Rusty had said,
he had no enterprise. But, how-
ever plodding and unimaginative
a schooner-owner may be, he
does not scorn easy money. And
easy money, in the form of eight
sturdy young natives, paddled
out to him as he lay at anchor
off a village late one night.
Would the master recruit them
at once? Certainly, Dowd told
them. Would the master give
them trade straight away and sail
before daylight when the
“Kokaruks” rang? Dowd didn't
bother to inquire into the cause
of this hasty midnight departure.
Here was real money, enough to
wipe off his debt to Rusty, walk-
ing aboard and asking to be
taken. Only last week Mailing
had told him that one of his
film’s plantations was very short
of boys.
By the light of a torch Dowd
dug out the required trade, and
watched two of the men paddle
ashore with it. Long before day-
light they were back. They cast
their canoe adrift and huddled
with their fellow-runaways while
the anchor-chain clanked up,
anxiously waiting for the throb
of the engine that would carry
them away before their luluai
discovered that his favorite pig
had been killed and eaten.
Only an hour or two before
we got back to Madang, Mailing
finished checking the eight
laborers’ contracts Dowd
handed him.
“Nice work,” he compli-
mented. “That’ll be £56 we owe
you, Harry. I’ll fix you up
straight away.” He took some
cash from the safe, added a piece
of paper to it and smiled as he
pushed it across. “Well, well.
Your own cheque back again,
eh?”
Dowd was waiting on the
wharf for us to tie up. The poor
chap was positively beaming with
gratitude as he jumped aboard.
“Here’s the cheque you lent
me. Rusty,” he said. “It’s put me
right on my feet again, so you
can tear it up now.”
RUSTY turned it over,
examining it back and front
just as Ah Wee had done. But
where Ah Wee had been
inwardly disturbed Rusty was
very obviously amused. The-
story of the cheque’s career was
all there, written and stamped on
its sweat-stained back. It had
turned the financial wheels of
Madang. It had repaired Dowd s
schooner, roofed Sandy Mc-
Donough’s workshop, got the
iron off Mailing’s hands and out
of his soul, paid the Administra-
tion police and labor and
squared Ah Wee’s account with
the firm. .
Rusty held his vast, shaking
girth and laughed and laughed.
“Tear it up! ”he bellowed. “Not
bloody likely. I’ll frame it and
hang it on the cabin bulkhead.
He choked over another gust of
laughter. “Fifty quid! Fifty
flamin’ quid! Why, it’s not
worth two-bob. When I finished
that spree at Connoly’s pub 1
was broke to the wide.
At the horrified look on
Dowd’s face he placed a huge
hand affectionately on his
shoulder. “Don’t get me wrong,
old man. I didn’t mean to pj
one over you. I reckoned I d o
back from the Sepik with enoug
to cover three of those cheque
by steamer-day. But now
Here the humor of the situation
once more got the better of him.
“Come on, you blokes. Lp c
Connoly’s pub. This town owes
me one big free night out!


MAKE YOUR SAVINGS
TWICE AS PROFITABLE
TO YOU AND YOUR FAMILY
TODAY
£146'5'0
INTEREST
£4*1 26
EVERY YEAR FOR EVERY
£lOO INVESTED
(INTEREST PAYABLE TWICE YEARLY)
In the Savings Bank, the maximum interest your £lOO earns is
£2/5/- each year, with nothing on deposits over £l,OOO. BUT if you
invest your savings in the Sydney County Council Loan, every £lOO
will earn £4/12/6 every year—more than twice the amount of'interest
you get from the bank!
Absolutely Safe Investment
The Sydney County Council controls what is by far the largest individual
electricity supply organisation in New South Wales: an organisation with
assets worth £22,000,000 and a revenue of £13,500,000 a year. When you
lend your savings to the Sydney County Council, the return of your capital
and the regular (twice a year) payment of interest are secured by the
revenue earned by these assets. The Loan is an Authorised Trustee
investment in New South Wales—which proves that it is gilt-edged ...
as safe as the bank.
£46's'o interest in 10 years
Your investment is for 10 years. In other words, at the end of 10 years you
will have received £46/5/- in interest for every £lOO and the amount you
originally invested will be repaid in full.
How to Invest
All you have to do is call at any branch of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia or go to any recognised stockbroker. If you live in Sydney, you
can make arrangements at the City or any suburban office of the Sydney
County Council. (Box 4009, G.P.0., Sydney. Tel. B 0259).
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
CONVERSION AND CASH
ELECTRICITY LOAN
The Loan it underwritten by lan Potter & Co ., members of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne .
SYL3-S2
Male for Sale
SHE has gold-freckled teeth,
butterfly rims and a
zippered-in fur-coat lining.
I need a lift to save me
from pokey. She looks like the
lift.
She erupts from the rapido
calling porters in an accent broad
as Santa Monica Boulevard. A
female travelling alone. An
overripe fruit asking to be
ravaged. Tired of waiting for
heaven to protect her. I comb
my moustaches and calculate
fees; imagine a future
resplendent with ease. Americans
and high spirits go together ; like
atoms and apocalypses.
Niccolo takes the lady’s
luggage. He’s a hideous little
monster, too moth-eaten to
interest a circus. He holds out
one hand for prepayment. The
lady overlooks the little monster.
Nic demands cash in advance.
The lady displays a toothy grin,
seemingly inextractable. Nic
cackles rich rollicking vernacular
stiff with invective. He advances
bushy-browed like Ivan the
Terrible assailing a peasant maid
from Omsk.
The station policeman chews
a mottled cigar. Thoughtfully.
The lady takes a deep breath to
attain the proportions of a
captive balloon.
I acquire the keen-honed
demeanor of a Boeing strato-
cruiser. “Want any help, lady?”
Moneyed Americans rate tops
with me. I push Nic’s squid-face.
“Thanks, mister,” the lady
thanks me for pushing Nic’s face.
I mould my face in sternest
mien. Nic pushes it and cricks
my neck. X grip his jaw to stop
the flow of invective. His jaw
grips me back. Modern stoush
stuff. Poke. Counter-poke. No
old-fashioned knock-down-drag-
out technique.
Nic gets a knife from behind
his neck. The blade could do
ten-stitches’-worth in one bite.
The knife is not in the script.
Nic reads too many travelogues.
He steps so close I see him clear
his throat. “Business is terrible,”
he snarls.
“Wrong season,” I grit side-
mouthed.
“Glory,” cries the lady.
“The man is angry, lady,” I
display commendable insight.
“Come with me.”
J TAKE her grip, escort her
* through the station, deposit
her on two-thirds of a cab seat.
“Moment.” Igo back on the
platform, give Nic a thousand-
lire note. He grabs too fast and
my tie-pin slips from his fist, I
pick it up without comment. He
gives me two-hundred change.
“Another fifty,” I bargain.
“Fifty for the knife,” he
informs me.
I give two-hundred to the cop-
per-cheeked carabiniere. “Fifty
for the knife,” I inform him.
I go outside the station, get
in the cab. The lady peers lolly-
eyed at four or five females on
Railway - square who shame
rather than excite the imagina-
tion. They look sad as the wail
of a Ural wolf that yearns for a
mating moon.
“Let’s go,” I tell the driver.
We go.
“Wrong season for tourists,”
I converse with the lady, Latin
temperament is ticklish enough
without high winds, thunder-
storms and political crises. She
ought to be reclining in Cannes
on the languorous Riviera.
“What annoyed the porter?”
“Dislikes Americans. Envies
them, I suppose. His family
emigrated, but he can’t save the
fare.”
“I came to see the cathedral,”
she confides,
“Where you stay?” American
is easy for me.
“Hotel Italy.”
I tell the driver. The driver
wants to discuss the point with
both hands. I stop him.
I put her in the best room.
White-washed, crockery-floored,
with unpainted rickety shutters
and a rusty balcony. She climbs
into a clean pair of eyelashes,
uncovers acres of chromium-
tinted flesh above the bumper-
baf.
I get her a ristorante meal. I
fumble my starved wallet. My
wallet is light as maids’ hearts in
spring. She lends me her purse.
I give her the idolatrous gaze.
“Tomorrow I show you the
cathedral.”
“Nothing to see tonight?”
“Come with me.”
P ROM the garage where it is
* held for rent I steal my
Fiat. I show her fascinating old
city slums, dreary new city
geometry. Town-life is sluggish
as waters of river Ofanto.
Beneath apparent calm turbulent
C ommunism can whirl up like
wind-whipped breakers. Some
citizens feel Russianism couldn’t
be worse than actual conditions.
Others feel that Italy has been
liberated and civilised too often,
already. Not many regard
United Nations seriously enough
to curse it.
When midnight approaches we
call at the club to mix with the
throng and pretend we belong.
The entrance is cluttered with
opulent powers who whisk in to
dance away nocturnal hours. In
daylight lower decks of the club
are given over to athletic sons of
Garibaldi who row racing skiffs
about the Adriatic,
'THE Perfumes Ball bubbles in
* the imitation alabaster hall.
At the doorway a red-eyed long-
bearded president demands
membership-cards. The president
is held together by a strip of red
carpet around his main saloon.
“Old fool,” I tell him. The
president is stone-deaf, moribund
and engaged to be married. For
a membership-card I give him a
bright smile. When he persists
I give him the fast pace and the
air of an irritated executive.
We go in the rakish ruination
atmosphere among streamers,
champagne, blue tunes, yellow
caps, joggling dancers. The lady
giggles. Full of excitement like
a hypodermic syringe. I shake
hands with all I can reach. I
call everyone I can by their first-
names. I know a lot of first-
names. I sweep the dance-floor
with professional eye, I count
seventeen rich widows. There are
gigolos, too. About seventeen.
I hobble tangoes with the
overbastioned lady. She learnt
dance-steps from a palsied
tarantula. We gaze helplessly at
waltzes, sambas, tarantellas,
quick-steps. We talk. We drink.
Demure dark-eyed members of
the Catholic Girls’ Association
file past. Bianca, Filomena, Agata.
My moustaches stand out like
lovers’ arms from train-windows.
“You’re not listening,” the
lady reprimands me.
“Sure,” I agree. Hot. She is.
And bothered too rarely. I suffer
from nausea. An occupational
disease.
The orchestra ascends on to
high hot keys for the slip horn,
jounces over greasy runs for the
clarinet. Nostalgic Fascist para-
graphs are inserted. Dancers
cheer.
“Another drink?”
“Please.”
What ought I get? Condensed-
milk? I get a brace of synthetic
gins. The president awards a
cardboard cup for the best-
dressed couple. He announces
results in ventriloquial tones like
the njuezzin calling from
Kasbah’s minarets. Trophies
used to be silver before the
Eighth Army requisitioned the
club. Before boys in the Her-
mann Goring division camped
there. I wonder how a Red
Army romp would affect the
trophy cabinets.
The winning couple contains
the daughter of the prefect and
the president’s son. Strangely
enough. The spotlight hits the
prefect’s wife, who enthrals the
hall with coloratura fireworks.
I take the American lady outside.
WE horse-cab regally along
the waterfront. Look up at
stars. Romantic, we are. Like
duodenal ulcers. We swap
lessons in opiate flimflam. I
buss warm tang of vermouth and
marsala off soggy lips, languidly
recite frayed stereos: Your hair
smells like eternity. Wasted
years behind us. Beloved of
kings, your eyes.strike starlight
in my soul. Stimulating. Those
stereos. Like emetic medicine.
She contributes several fresh
phrases I memorise for future
use. Phrases solid as sugar-
coated soap-bubbles. Our be-
havior is loose as granny-knots.
“Have a sweet,” she offers.
She gives me a chemical counter-
agent for halitosis.
I pin a cameo brooch on her
bust.
Back at the rowing club
dancers still undulate. The lady
sips carpano. Purple curdle in
a long egg-cup she hates to see
either full or empty. She bends
her head. Slightly. To examine
the brooch. A cameo centred in
gold, besieged by stones for a
scrambled-egg motif. Genuine
stuff. She looks nervous. I pre-
tend not to notice.
“Ought I buy it?” What deli-
cacy. She pulls out some dol-
lars. Not nearly enough.
“Get it evaluated tomorrow,”
I suggest. “Then you might buy
it.”
CLUB shutters swing open,
cigar-smoke billows out
over harbor water lapping inches
below window-sills. Fresh
morning sunlight floods in from
a mackerel sky to start inmates
coughing. We gaze surprised at
reflected sunlight writhing on
mosaic ceiling. Faint sounds of
fish-marketing reach us from
the old city.
I take the sweet creature of
my past dreams and present
awakenings back to the hotel.
Her complexion clots yellow as
phenobarb pellets. I wait out-
side in the car. I fall asleep
and dream of being consumed by
a clammy marine monster. I
awake mewing for help.
Niccolo looks into my car and
grins the grin of mealy-mouthed
bunkum. He gets in the car. I
turn up the radio to smother his
tobacco-chewing.
“How you feel?”
“Zest in the old son yet.”
“How’s business?”
“I sold her a cameo.”
“Good price?”
“She’s easy.”
Nic leers admiration, pats my
back, inadvertently hooks a
cameo from my pocket. “Fake,”
he comments.
“I switch it for the genuine
one after she pays,”
Nic slips the cameo in my
pocket. I drop him at the
station; I shake confetti, corian-
doli from my dark suit, shake a
powder down my throat to dissi-
pate binge twinges. I tighten the
tie I use for a belt. No stout
braces for my financial pants.
The parrucchiere trims my
moustaches to keep them off the
shoulders. He oils my hair stiff
as an unpaid trull.
I SHOW the lady the cathedral
1 suffocating under its immense
weight of baroque stucco. We
peer blearily up at the cupola.
We say goodbye to the sacristan.
The sacristan curses the Ger-
mans and asks for alms.
We drive through paved
alleys, carnival - gay, where
dancers step in colored rags.
Warming up for epiphany. We
ride over the warm midday
piazza. Revellers, sharp and
fresh from last evening, cry
greetings.
“Ciao, ciao, amico.”
“Ciao, Tonio. Ciao, Vin-
cenzio, Bruno.” I shake hands
several times as is the custom.
We drive through neglected,
whitewashed old city which
looks like a charcoal drawing of
inferno. Through countryside
decorated with straggling olives,
struggling figs. In fishing vil-
lages Sunday’s streets are thick
with slippery complex life like
the last draught from old flasks.
Black-cloaked peasants trade
thrivingly in blackmarket food-
stuffs. Carabinieri regard black-
bartering with gainful tolerance
Clergy sombrely habited and
plentifully enriched with in-
signia patrol pensively; black
ravens planning crusades
against red foxes. Skimp-skirted
(Continued on page 31.)


mm
mm
EVERY INCH A MAN
und he looks itl
Clothes may not make the man, but they DO
help to make a man look his best. And that
is important! You know, by experience, how
we DO our best when we are correctly dressed.
Using only Pure Fleece Wool, the Crusader
Mills have woven for us beautiful, wear-resisting
Worsted Cloths. Pre-tailored by Stamina, these
Fancy Navy Blue, De-Luxe D.B. Suits are now
available at all genuine Stamina Men’s Wear
Stores.
(Yes! You will look your best and be correct
in an attractive Stamina Suit of Navy Blue.
ASK FOR
Stamina /X ,jl
U*B huilS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOT#
S 2-113
r^r
until summer is nearly over*
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.LSLAGWOOL
No house, home, office or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless It Is Insulated preferably with BJ*\
SLAGWOOL.
insulation
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY, MA9311 • MELBOURNE, MU3SOE
BRISBANE, 63504 • ADELAIDE, C. 7257 • PERTH, L 2107
f
ANIMAL
CRACKERS
by HARRY COOPER
THE big man who had
dashed from his car into
the bar when the storm was
at its height swigged his
beer and gazed appreciatively at
the attractive brunette who had
served him.
“Snug little place you got
here,” he said. “Dead-and-alive
hole though, I bet.”
The brunette went on wiping
glasses. She said; “We have
our moments ; we’re pretty busy
till about nine. The locals are
all farm people; they turn in
early.”
The big man placed both
elbows on the bar-
counter, leaned
over. “Bit lone-
s o'm e for you,
lassie, eh? Still, I’ll
stick on till you
close ... On your
own, eh? We’ll
have a bit of a
party afterwards.”
“Ten o’clock’s closing-time,”
replied the brunette, wiping
another glass.
“Fine! Come ten we’ll shut
the doors and” He stopped
at the sound of someone moving
on the other side of the parti-
tion. “What’s that?”
“Ummh,” said the brunette
quietly, “I thought he’d fallen
asleep over the paper. My
husband.”
“Husband, eh?” said the big
man. “What’s in there, then?”
“That’s the public-bar. This
is the private. It sounds as if
Jim’s got a customer, too.”
I IM had. A thin, sad-faced
man was gently sipping a
port. He said to the landlord;
“Excuse me, I had difficulty in
finding this place. I’m looking
for a Mrs. Hampson.”
“That’s my wife,” said Jim.
“She’s in the next bar.”
“I see,” said the thin-faced
man. “She—keeps cats, doesn't
she?”
Jim laughed. “I don’t know
about that. Her job is to help
me run this pub, but she
certainly feeds cats. Any cat.
Any dog, too, who comes along.
Why?”
The thin-faced man’s eyes lit
up. “That’s what I was told.
I wonder if she feeds a thick-
bodied, black female cat with
violet eyes?”
Jim shrugged. “I wouldn’t
know. You’d better ask her.
I’ll call her in. It’s quiet round
here now.”
They both stiffened as the
brunette’s angry cries reached
them from the next bar. Then
there was the crash of a bottle
against the wall, and scuffling
footsteps. A door banged.
“Yes,” said the thin-faced
man, picking up his port. “It
is quiet around here.”
He turned as the brunette
strode into the public-bar. She
said to Jim “I’ll need another
bottle of Australian whisky in
there.”
“What’s up,” asked Jim.
“You all right?”
“I’m all right,” she said. “But
I bet that traveller fellow who
was in there isn’t. A full bottle
gone west! I threw it at him!
I bet he won’t come back here
in a hurry!”
But as she spoke the big man
pushed his way into the public-
bar. “Listen, fellow,” he yelled,
advancing to where Jim stood,
and banging his fist on the
counter. “That dame in there
can’t do that to me! She’s
slashed my forehead open. Why
—there she is!”
“Hand me another bottle,
quick!” ordered the brunette.
“This time make it lemonade.”
Jim instead patted his wife’s
arm. “Take it easy, girl,” he
said. “What started all this,
anyway?”
The brunette glared at the big
man. “That gentleman kicked
a little black dog who happened
to put his nose inside my bar.
So I cracked him —the gentle-
man—with a bottle.”
I IM turned to the big man.
“That explains everything.
Nobody can ill-treat animals
when my wife’s in the neighbor-
hood. It’s more than their life’s
worth. You’re lucky, mister.
You’ve only got a scratched
forehead. Have a drink on the
house and forget about it. My
wife’s funny about animals.”
“Especially cats, eh, lady?”
put in the thin-faced man. The
brunette still had a bottle of
lemonade in her hand. She eyed
the thin-faced man speculatively.
“What’s wrong with cats?”
she demanded.
“Now, now,” said the
landlord. “This gentleman came
in to ask you about a certain
cat . . , ”
“That’s right, madam,” added
the thin-faced man eagerly.
“A big, black cat, with violet
eyes. I want her badly. Through
that cat I lost my wife.”
“Well, for crying out loud!”
boomed the big man. “I thought
I’d lost my wife, but I got her
back—all through a little, black
dog! What’ll you do to the
cat if you find her?”
“Cut her head off,” replied the
thin-faced man.
“A lovely pair!” commented
the brunette. “I bet they both
lull their kids to sleep every
night with a length of rubber
hose!”
T' HE landlord put up the
1 drinks. The brunette toyed
with her bottle of lemonade.
She said: “Tell us about the
cat. I may have seen it.”
“You see ,” said the thin-faced
man, “one Sunday afternoon I
was sitting in the lounge read-
ing my weekend paper. I’d just
got to the end of the serial. It
was an exciting serial and I said
out loud ‘Gee, I wish it was next
Sunday!’ And it was next
Sunday.”
“You don’t blame the cat, do
you?” remarked the big man,
“Now this little black dog”
“We’ll hear about the dog
afterwards,” ordered the
brunette, banging her lemonade-
bottle on the counter.
“As soon as it was next
Sunday,” went on the thin-faced
man, “I realised what I had been
doing. I had been stroking
Mona Lisa —that’s the big black
cat with violet eyes. The wife
named her. It was her cat. I
tell you, friends, in all serious-
ness, it was next Sunday. In
the matter of seconds I had
skipped a whole week. It took
me a little time to realise all
this, of course, and when I did
I went in search of Mona Lisa.
You”
“I see,” encouraged the
brunette gently. “And when you
found Mona Lisa you stroked
her again and wished you were
back where you had been—and
everything was all right.”
“No, lady,” said the thin-
faced man, sipping his port.
“The cat kept out of my way.
She had never been friendly
towards me.”
ti I OOK,” said the big man,
*—■ “the storm’s lifted and
I’ve got to get home tonight.
Suppose you let me tell you
about the little black dog?”
“If you insist,” replied the
thin-faced man primly. “Not
that I am particularly interested.”
“I am,” said the brunette.
She added; “Jim, serve ’em
another drink—on me.”
“Fine!” said the big man,
“It’s like this. My wife had a
little black dog. Worshipped it.
Even put it before me, and I
got mighty jealous. As time
went on we found ourselves
always fighting over that blessed
dog. I threatened to do it in,
and the wife said that if anything
happened to it she’d leave me.
Well”
“We got to fighting over the
big, black cat, too,” put in the
{Continued on page 31.)


Now in Book Form
Illustrated by Norman
Lindsay with over 40
superb pen-drawings
Obtainable at bookshops, or
at “The Bulletin” offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or
Sydney. Or post-free from
The Book Department
“TKo.
“The Bulletin”
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
7/6
e Letters
LLenn
THE symbol known
to connoisseurs
of Scotch Whisky
since 1742
i 51 ,014 Blend
BBEia^. Kis irr y
Cellar
Ongiftil B;ci
* :#fWSh
limmz
m
*r, H°*Jf OISTIU£»J LTD.
w
I
i
B
K
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
WHIBX/9
Australian Historical Sketches
IMMIGRATING IN THE EARLIES
By M.H. ELLIS
NOTHING was easier
round the end of the 18th
century than to earn a
passage to Botany Bay.
Every species of theft above the
value of one-shilling, unless
otherwise distinguished, could
earn one, though there was some
difficulty in drawing a fine line
between doing what might mean
merely export and what would
produce hanging.
There was, for instance, the
case of the lady who forged a
rude five-shilling note so that she
could accompany her husband
on his perilous voyage to Sydney
Cove, and who, instead, found
herself on the way to Eternity
before she could say “knife.”
Riding a neighbor’s pony for a
frolic on a sunny afternoon
reputedly sent to this country
Mrs. Reiby—she was 13 at the
time of her conviction —which
turned out more than a blessing
in disguise, since she lived to be
the first landlady of the Bank of
New South Wales and the
mother of a Tasmanian Premier
and of an archdeacon.
A sergeant was sent out for
stealing a loaf, another for loot-
ing a broom. A renowned
Doctor of Laws, the famous Dr.
Halloran, who had had a Lord
Chancellor for a pupil at his
school, was shipped out, after a
cooling-off period in Newgate,
for forging a postage-frank for
tenpence on a letter.
A “very little boy of 13,” dis-
covered by an investigator
ironed with 121 b. irons on a
hulk a generation after Botany
Bay was founded, went out
cheek -by - jowl with ruffians
brought up in the seething depths
of Seven Dials or Alsatia, The
small servant girl who suc-
cumbed to temptation in Carlisle
and pocketed some spoons was
carried on the top of a coach to
the south coast, an iron band
round her waist, chains under
her clothes reaching to the gyves
on her ankles. She was shipped
in the same den with vile hags
from the verges of the Savoy
Military Prison.
Crime was crime. There was
no gradation. You could be
hanged for murder, or for
“attempting to kill Privy
Councillors” ; but it was just as
easy to earn a lease of a rope by
shoplifting something worth
more than five-shillings, by
“stealing an heiress”—a highly
popular pastime—or by “cutting
hop-binds.”
Petty larcenies of goods less
in value than a shilling; “steal-
ing roots, trees or plants of the
value of five-shillings,” “setting
fire to underwood”—all these
things and a hundred more
rated a ticket to New Holland.
And though technically the
sentence might be for seven or
fourteen years, practically it
almost always meant for life.
The attitude of the Home
Government to its criminals was
very much that of the poet to
Queen Caroline:
O gracious Queen, we thee implore
To go away and sin no more;
But, if that effort be too great,
To go away at any rate.
Usually the Government con-
ditioned the transportee for his
(or her) travels by a sojourn in
the hulks, old warships cast up
on a slimy beach or rotting at
their cables. In these he might
spend months or years before it
was suddenly decided to put him
into a ship. Some who went in
the First Fleet were sentenced
for seven years in 1782 and
arrived in Port Jackson in
January, 1788.
Most became permanent
colonists, some historic
characters. As their sentences
ended they were each given 30
acres of land and a ration for a
period, usually 18 months, in
which time they were expected
to make themselves self-
supporting.
As often as not they sold their
30 acres, went into business as
bushrangers and, got shot, went
into trade with a still and stolen
corn and became rich and
famous, or merely acquired as
much good “Bengal” as 30
acres, a few pigs and a humpy
would buy and solved their own
and everybody else’s problems
in a glorious and fatal jag.
-I- +
However, in the very early
days of transportation it was one
thing to be sentenced to go to
N. S. Wales, another to get there.
Until Indiamen were used, the
ships in which convicts sailed
were rarely more than 400 tons
burthen. The First Fleet
travelled in ideal conditions
under the watchful eye of a Gov-
ernment playing with a new toy.
But with rare exceptions convict
fleets were vehicles to avoid.
The system was to let to
private contractors the removing
of several hundred wretches,
male and female, to the Anti-
podes at so much a head. The
experts in this business were
usually Guinea slavers who had
the equipment for such contracts.
They provided everything down
to the irons the prisoners wore.
The irons used in the Second
Fleet, which sailed at the begin-
ning of 1790, were “made with
a short bolt instead of chains
that drop between the legs . . .
these bolts were not more than
threequarters of a foot in length,
so that they could not extend
either leg from the other more
than an inch or two at most;
thus fettered, it was impossible
for them to move but at the risk
of both their legs being broken.”
They were not always fettered
on the voyage, of course, but
always in harbor en route or
when approaching land, though
most of them were scarcely fit
at any time to muster the energy
to escape.
Usually they were put into
ships long before they sailed.
Let us take the Second Fleet as
our example. It began to be
loaded in the first week in
November, 1789. It sailed from
the Motherbank after several
false-starts on January 17, 1790.
The voyage was expeditious.
The ships reached Port Jack-
son on June 26-28, having
called only at the Cape of
Good Hope, instead of having to
follow the trades to Rio de
Janeiro and make the Cape from
there. That voyage was fairly
typical of many by which our
rude forefathers reached —or
didn’t reach —these shores.
In the 800-ton Neptune there
were 424 male convicts packed
into quadruple rows of dens,
each 6ft. square, on the orlop
deck in a space 75ft. by 35ft.
The deckhead above them be-
tween beams was 6ft. 6in. high,
under beams sft. 7in., so that
an ordinary man could not walk
in them without stooping. The
78 women convicts were in a
den just as crowded, carved out
of the great cabin in the stern.
Rations were served by messes
—mainly salt-meat and bread.
The convicts rarely saw the light
for more than an hour or two at
a time. As they lay in their
sweltering sea - prisons, the
moisture of their breaths and all
the foul effluents of the ship
collected on cabin-walls, which
dripped with evil - smelling
moisture. It was necessary at
intervals to fumigate every
convict-ship, to dry its walls with
lime, to wash it down with
vinegar ; and even when this was
done it was no flower-garden,
nor did the habits of the convicts
and the lack of washing-water
and sanitary arrangements
improve it.
Scurvy soon hit the ships, and
almost before they had left the
Bay of Biscay men began to die,
a fact at which no contractors
wept, for to them, as David Col-
lins wrote, “the dead were more
profitable than the living.”
Their arrangement was for a
fixed sum of £l7 7s. 6d. fox-
carrying every convict embarked.
If one died they saved his
rations—if they could circumvent
his fellows, which was not always
easy, since the friends and com-
panions of the wretched dead
had their own axe to grind.
The first thing they did, as a
matter of routine, when a mem-
ber of the mess passed over, was
to search his dead cheek to dis-
cover whether his tobacco-quid
was being wasted. Then they
propped him up and made him
look as lifelike as possible for
as long as possible so that they
might continue to draw and
share his ration.
Every night there were fights,
and every night there were
struggles in the women’s
quarters. Almost every day
there were deaths.
And sometimes, too, there
were storms and contrary winds.
It was merely normal for a ship
to beat up and down off the
N. S. Wales coast for two or
three weeks trying to find a way
of being blown into Port Jack-
son, and the vessel which
reached Sydney Cove at once
after passing between the Heads
had performed a miracle of
luck. Sometimes they hung
round Watson’s Bay for days
waiting for the westerly to
abate.
At sea in a storm conditions
were unbelievable. Captain Hill,
of the N. S. Wales Corps, who
made the voyage with the
Second Fleet in the 420-ton Sur-
prize, ended his journey feeling
“no better than a leper,” for,
apart from the barbarous sights
he had encountered, the deaths
he had seen, the vessel was so
small that “if it blew a trifling
gale she was lost in the waters,”
and the convicts and soldiers
battened down in her were, until
the storm abated, “near waist-
deep in sea.”
Yet the Surprize, coming in
under jury-masts at the end of
her weary voyage, was better off
than other ships. She had lost
only 42 convicts at sea and had
only 100 sick out of the remain-
ing 218. The Reverend Mr.
Johnson, going aboard her, at
least could stagger vomiting
through her lower decks when
she moored in Sydney Cove ;
but one , b } as * T from *£ e /? id
j nte i rior °f the Neptune beat,him
back, and he and other witnesses
w ere . c °iitent to watch the land-
“f store* af'the "Lrels were
; nt 8 ic r 8
aLa
popping a tra “ ot “ aKld ?!!
over > neir sltrn ® to oe cast up
wards '
i i
T ’
There is no more heartrend-
ing account in Australian early
history than of this landing on
June 28, 1790. A woman con-
vict who had just survived an
11-months voyage in the
humanely - managed Lady
Juliana, which had berthed a
few days before, told of it.
“Oh ” che wrote “if von bad
e tbe shockina ’ sieht of the
+ if 3 b , r
poo r creatures who came out of
tb tb h - jt i d ke
Q r beart bleed- thev were
KstS; few couwVnd*
and tbpv wprp obb „ Pfi to Hinp
them as Y would 8 goods, and
boist them out the shin thev
were S o feeble ; and they died
ten and twelve a day when they
fi rs t landed.”
Asho re it was. even worse than
in the foul vessels as thev laid
d d and th Y: J y d th
sick £our t 0 a tent the wet
2round where Georee - street
f, orth runs c | rpenters
hammered throllgh the night put .
, ing up the prefabricated hos-
pital which had been framed in
| ngland by no less a craftsman
tban Wyatville, the reconstructor
n f WinHsnr r-Ktlp
of Windsor Castle .
w f re b Bhted to bake
bread for the poor wretches, for
tb could not fend for them-
se i veSi Blankets were served out,
wb | cb the most savage criminal
eacb ten t promptly stole,
p ar tj es rushed hurriedly to the
busb to collect anti-scorbutic
berries, for there were no drugs
f or suc h an emergency. But, for
all that, torches flared for weeks
in the cold and bitter wind of
the burial-ground, so exposed to
the westerlies, as in the dawn
another dozen victims of the
Botany Bay voyage were put
away for ever in Australian soil,
j n a p_ 261 men, 11 women
and two ’ children out of 1005
convicts who left England
perished on that voy age. A fort-
night after the coming of the
sb j ps 433 perso ns were in and
abou ! * he hos f pi “? U ‘ * ‘° ta ‘
population of 2025. Governor
phllll P declared that very many
would “ never a B ain recover
tbe j r health and strength, but
must remain for life a burden on
the settlement ”
Yet many, bond and free, who
came on that voyage lived long
lives.
. b)l ' - U’Arcy Wentworth sur-
,vlVjd become the greatest
landholder ln the colony. He
began as a surgeon-highway-
F* an > . ere be became a Supreme
Court juclge. The little 22-year-
°ld Catherine Crowley lived to
* be mot ber of William
Charles Wentworth, rounder of
I, Australian Constitution,
t ' al l ber the_ Federal ide a . Mr.
John IVTacarthur lived to make
histnrv for annthpr 4D vparc •
™ slor y } or anotner 4U years »
rs - obn Macarthur survived
ehatetaineTf’ te flretWS
< - na T eia me or me nrst great
Harris lived *4B
aurg °T. Jonn ±larns . tivea 4«
d cerVark°To friend
n f r P t dukes and oive a name
tn thJsuhnrh nf Tllfimn f tide
Edward Macarthur, carried £
arms ailina and delicate lived
a ™ b ’ from
t Australia to volunteer for active
service in war—he was in the
39th Foot ( D or sets) whh
.. Daddy .. H ill in the Peninsula ;
to become, also, our first
lieutenant-general and an acting
Governor of Victoria.
And hundreds of convicts
r ”f a fiunareas or convicts
lived and struggled here Some
prospered so that their descend-
nnts are today wealthy pas-
toralists, bankers, renowned pro-
fessional men.
Whatever else could be said
about the early voyage to Aus-
tralia, it was selective. Anybody
who survived it had proved him-
self or herself fit to breed
pioneers and heroes.


nß a.
<osnT
I#
HG'-r
G°
0$
ws
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE YI
Tanqueray Gordon & Co. Ltd.
Qua/ifa
Although imports of this world-famous
London Gin are restricted, limited quan-
tities are still available to connoisseurs.
Goidoris
Stands Supfama
Concrete fence-post machines
Concrete brick-block machines
Write for Free Booklet on these well-known
“Rapid” machines.
HALL & PYNE PTY. LTD..
63A Warren Road, Marrickville, N.S.W. LL2441.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Horses are like humans, fit as
a fiddle one day, not so hot the
next, so it mightn’t be a good
idea to regard Prelate’s eighth
in the Rosehill Theo Marks
Quality Handicap as an indica-
tion that he has little chance of
winning the Epsom, for which
he had ruled as favorite, or equal-
first fancy, before Saturday last.
Bookmakers operating on the
spring double have dropped him
sharply in betting order, and
they don’t make many errors.
Part-owner Frank Donohoe
and brother Johnnie, who trains
the School Tie stallion, were
much down in the mouth
when chewing over Prelate’s
poor effort. Johnnie regarded
Prelate as an almost certain
winner of the Rosehill sprint, but
the five-year-old stopped to a
walk.
New Zealand stayer Unfaan
had a good view of opponents in
the Theo Marks Quality Han-
dicap. Ridden by Noel Mc-
Growdie (noted Cups’ jockey),
the Maorilander was tailed off
most of the way, but managed
to beat a couple home. He will
derive much benefit from the
run, as one race is better than
a couple or more track gallops.
The five-year-old is a stayer and
nothing else. Unfaan is train-
ing for something round about
a mile-and-a-half or a two-miles
circuit. Australian racegoers
should note that in October last
he ran a mile and a half at Wel-
lington in equalling New
Zealand record. Australia’s best
for the distance, 2.27 L was made
by Palfresco at Caulfield in 1935,
so that it has stood the test of
time for many years.
The band at Rosehill struck up
the popular “Everything’s going
my way,” after the opening race
had been won by favorite Port
Moonta. Musically - minded
punters regarded that as an omen,
but it wasn’t, as 100-to-l Ben
Bow won the second event, and
every other favorite bar the last,
Salamanca, was defeated. Evi-
dently the musical score was
played for the fielders.
Buyers at the 1951 yearling
sales at Randwick missed the
bus with Idlewild, who was
scorned by the hundreds round
the sale-ring, the colt being re-
tained by his breeder, W. H.
Tyler. Idlewild’s superiority over
the opposition in the Rosehill
Guineas brought him into
marked request for the A.J.C.
Derby, and he is expected to
start favorite for the Blue
Riband.
Idlewild has won four races.
Though the Guineas hasn’t
proved a sound guide to the
Derby, Phar Lap, Laureate,
Moorland and Tea Rose won
both races, as did New Zealander
Biplane back in 1917. Idlewild’s
owner-breeder is optimistic about
his colt landing the double ; so
are many others.
Those who stick to bloodlines
for the A.J.C. Derby and who
fancy Idlewild will find the
colt’s pedigree interesting. His
sire, Bois de Rose (imp.), now in
his second year only as a sire, is
a highly-bred son of unbeaten
Bahrain, winner of more than
£40,000 in stakes, including the
English Derby and St. Leger.
Closely related to Djelal, he is
out of a daughter of Teddy, a
winner of the French Derby and
St. Leger. Bois de Rose belongs
to the same family as Derby-
winner Blenheim, sire of Mah-
moud, winner of the Derby, and
Donatello 11, sire of great stayer
Alycidon. Leading Duchess,
dam of Idlewild, is by Le Grand
Due (imp.) from Leadership by
Koomeela from Cuvier by
Heroic. Carbine blood comes
into the pedigree through La
Douairiere, dam of Le Grand
Due, who was got by Spearmint,
noted son of Carbine. Thus it is
indicated Idlewild will stay for a
week.
On relative weights, Tossing,
winner of Rosehill Theo Marks
Handicap, should hold rivals in
the Epsom. High Law didn’t
run last Saturday, but, allowing
for the fact that Tossing ad-
vances from 7.8 to 8.2, he de-
feated a smart bunch of sprinters
with little effort. The suburban
event was a 7st. limit, but the
Epsom is based on a 6st. 71b.
minimum. Tossing had been
freshened up after competing in
middle-distance events, and his
success was a tribute to Maurice
McCarten’s clever planning and
placing. Tossing immediately be-
came equal favorite for the
Epsom with High Law.
Doomben on Saturday saw a
smart performance on the part
of A.J.C. Derby candidate Kash-
mir, raced by Dr. J. Power and
well-known Victorian thorough-
bred-breeder E. A. Underwood.
Spellman, one of Brisbane’s best
middle-distance gallopers, was
beaten into second-place. Kash-
mir is a Dhoti (imp.) colt from
Bronze, a daughter of Mel-
bourne Cup winner Windbag.
J. Purtell might ride him in the
classic.
Carrying the Underwood
livery, Wodalla, a three-year-old
colt by Helois (imp.) from The
Rip by Midstream (imp.), won
First Cumberland Handicap at
Moonee Valley. Wodalla also
is an entrant for the A.J.C.
Derby, At time of writing he
“Speak to me, Dobby!”
was considered a likely starter.
It looks as if the Randwick
classic this year will be an almost
all-Australian event, but the
visitors will have to be good to
down the locals, particularly
Idlewild.
An interesting winner at the
Valley was 10-year-old Hoyle
in the Budgeree Handicap, 13
furlongs. It is a poor com-
mentary on the younger stayers
when a veteran who has raced
through so many seasons is still
capable of downing them.
The oldster might be in the
money at the big spring meet-
ings in Melbourne, especially
when there is a mile and a half
and more to travel. Best win was
in Moonee Valley Cup three
years ago. He has been placed
in several Cups and ran second
to Foxzami in the 1949 Mel-
bourne Cup.
Sydney two-year-olds, espe-
cially the colts, appear a fairly
even lot if Randwick barrier
trials (13 of them) are to be
taken as a guide. Some beaten
colts and fillies, however, will do
much better on race-day ; also,
many promising youngsters did
not appear at the trials. As
anticipated, fastest filly was
Love to All, pre-post hot
favorite for the A.J.C. Gimcrack
Stakes. She is a daughter of a
new first-season sire, Jambo
(imp.), and from Saros by
Hellespont (imp.) from Studio
by Manfred, and cost 625
guineas as a yearling. Saros is
a sister to the brilliant Chanak,
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
winner.
Love to All ran the half-mile
plus 12yds. in 48|sec. Next-
best time, 49sec., was run by
first-heat winner Sir Malcolm
and by Count Seven. Remain-
ing winners recorded between
49i and 51 sec., indicating even-
ness. In more than one heat it
seemed that jockeys, maybe
under instructions, managed
without difficulty to give mounts
a comfortable pre-noon spot of
not over-strenuous exercise.
Here are half a dozen, picked
from a big list of starters, which
might soon be in the money :
Love to All, Sir Malcolm,
Driftwood, Reflected Glory,
Talisman and Naval Victory.
N.Z. jockey Norman Holland
accepted Melbourne Racing
Club’s request to ride in the
Invitation Stakes (September 25),
but on September 13 was sus-
pended by V.R.C. stewards for
two months. He lodged an
appeal, requesting an early hear-
ing so that, if successful, he
could ride in the Invitation
Stakes and, of course, accept
other spring engagements.
V.R.C. committee decided not to
accede ; and it will not be meet-
ing till early October.
That’s usual procedure, but
surely suspended jockeys should
be given an earlier hearing of
appeals than under present
arrangement. This also applies
to other licensees who may be
suspended or disqualified. Delay
is tough business to such men,
especially should appeals be
upheld; it is more so in the
case of a rider visiting Australia.
Racing committees throughout
Australia might discuss a sugges-
tion to alter the present practice.
* * * *
Though Collingwood Magpies
got into the V.F.L. grand final
by beating Fitzroy, 11.15 to 9.8,
they have nothing to carol about.
The 52,000-odd who went to
M.C.G. to see the match would
want long odds to back Colling-
wood against Geelong. Colling-
wood booted 5.5 to two points
in the second change, and from
that Fitzroy, though they kicked
5.2 to 1.3 in the third, couldn’t
recover.
Sydney footbrawl wound up
with Union and League grand
finals on adjacent arenas.
Union: Showground; Gordon
easily dumped Manly, 19-6;
Gordon’s captain, Davidson,
kicked in the back of the head,
three-inch gash, concussion, but,
going by the game he played,
inspired thereby ; some talk of
asking Menzies and Casey
whether two-inch football-spikes
come under the rearmament
drive or the Anzus Pact.
League; Cricket Ground; West
southerlied South, 22-12, not so
overwhelming as the score might
suggest; stoush reasonably re-
fined, only two sent off, ref. able
to walk off.
* * * *
For charity, scratch cricket
teams “South” (Hassett, skipper)
and “North” (Keith Miller) be-
tween them hit up 530 runs at
Mosman on Saturday afternoon
—probably not an absolutely
safe guide to what’s ahead in
the season which opens next
weekend. The Millers won by
18 runs.
Board of Control dropping of
Chappie Dwyer as an Australian
cricket selector, and the fact
that N.S.W. is not now rep-
resented on the selection com-
mittee, has stirred up a tremen-
dous shindy. It seems the whole
future of the State’s cricket is in
jeopardy. But there’s no reason
why the lesser cricketing States
should not be represented on the
committee. Dwyer has served
the game extra well; but selec-
tors, like players, must them-
selves expect sooner or later to
be dropped. At the same time
Dwyer’s dismissal seems to be a
symptom of unhealthy rivalries
and jealousies of behind-the-
scenes cricket administration.
From all this strife and bother
one figure stands aloof, con-
nected with none of it—Brad-
man.
* * * *
N.S.W. course at La Perouse
(Sydney) will stage the Aus-
tralian amateur golf champion-
ship next September, but the
Open is scheduled for Royal
Melbourne course on a date to
be fixed. The change from the
old system of playing the
Amateur immediately after the
Open may not be popular, and
stands a good chance of reduc-
ing the Amateur fields.
The Ampol golf tourney has
become so big that it’s to be in
two spasms this year, the first at
The Lakes (Sydney) on October
22-26 and the second at Yarra
Yarra (Melbourne) on Novem-
ber 12-15.
* * * *
On Thursday evening last
week, about the time they start
queueing up for the stoush at
Leichhardt, a New Australian
with the impressive monicker of
Carlo Marchini and the middle-
weight poundage of 11.51 led
his bride from the altar, then
hied him off to fulfil what sour
misogynists would rate a some-
what less risky engagement—
i.e., biff and be biffed by A 1
Smith (11.4|) for the State
title. Nine rounds later Carlo,
gulping the foggy, foggy Leich-
hardt murk, gazed down trium-
phantly on the prostrate Smith
outed for the full count —a
spectacle calculated to impress
any bride whatever.
Same evening a newcomer
with a familiar name, Starlight,
impressively dished Don Fish.
As black of pelt as his name-
sake’s hue and record combined,
Starlight landed Fish as flat as
a fried flounder in round four.
No doubt it’s a comment on
the parlous state of stoush in
Australia, and so forth, that a
brace of American negroes,
Freddie Dawson and Walter
Haines, are turning on the main
scrap at Sydney Stadium next
Monday night. Even so, another
brace of the same did likewise
back in 1911, when the Noble
Art here wasn’t exactly m the
doldrums —the two Sams (or
Sambos), Langford and McVea.
Dawson, yet to be beaten m
Australia ; but Brudder Wal sure
disanoint dat said pusson m
United States, two time, yus
sah!


TILLEY Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
-v:
m
&
m:
sSSlilll
SiS
m
■ V'--
iVfen like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit , it is Economic only 1J pints of Kero for
12 hours ’ light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores,
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
established ISOS
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIS 4
OSUIUVAjf
iA PWJft ,
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson 4 Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams end Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
RAPID RELIEF
from the pain of
•ARTHRITIS
• RHEUMATISM
•SCIATICA
can be yours with
&mms
TRADE MARK
American discovery approved by Doctors
Dolcin has brought relief to countless sufferers from
rheumatic disorders in America, Canada, England and
now in Australia. Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief from
the painful symptoms of Arthritis, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuritis, Lumbago and Fibrositis. Prolonged relief is also
given because Dolcin contains substances which improve
the supply of blood and oxygen to the affected tissues.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved from
the misery of Rheumatism, including people
who had given up hope of ever getting
relief, are now active again—able to work
—thanks to the relief from pain Dolcin
Tablets have brought them.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
DOLCIN is obtainable from your Chemist.
ToTcTw
Helpful and informative literature on DolrJ. o
will be sent on request to Dolcin (Australia)
Pty. Lid., Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney.
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
2/121A
BEHIND
THE IRON CURTAIN
By special arrangement with the “Economist” this new
Bulletin feature, giving expertly compiled and authoritative
up-to-the-minute information on current developments
‘Behind the Iron Curtain” will appear each month .
THE men who rule the Soviet
Union have clearly decided
that they, too, will make
their contribution to this
year of fresh starts —a year
which sees the West approaching
bargaining equality with the
East, a new President in the
making in the United States, a
new Power emerging in Germany
as part of a new set-up in
Western Europe, and Communist
China asserting itself in Asia as
a world Power.
What the Russian contribution
will be is not yet certain. When
the Congress of the Soviet Com-
munist party has met next month
—for the first time in 13 years—
we shall see more clearly the
significance of the current Five-
year Plan, of the proposed
changes in the structure of the
party, of the decision to review
publicly its achievement since the
eve of Hitler’s war.
The economic news that
Moscow released last month is
not startling ; it merely comes
18 months late. The plan which
has been revealed in its main
features is that which will direct
the Soviet economy over the next
critical three and a half years.
It will decide the Soviet capacity
not only to create military
strength, but also to trade with
the outside world and to assist
allies.
In short, it is Stalin’s cold-war
plan.
On the political plane, how-
ever, Stalin has set the world a
poser. Why this sudden return
to “party democracy”? Is the
Congress a prelude to Stalin’s
withdrawal from the stage, and is
the prominent role assigned to
Malenkov a sign that he is to be
heir-apparent? What lies behind
the unexpected abolition of the
Politburo —a political organ as
old as the Soviet regime itself —
and the discarding of the title
Bolsheviki, in which the party
has hitherto taken such pride?
First of all, let it be made clear
that this Congress is in theory
the supreme body of the party
and, in the Soviet Union, the
party is supreme in the State.
The delegates to it, chosen by
the rank-and-file, have, in theory,
the last word in shaping party
policy in domestic, foreign and
political as well as economic
affairs. It reviews the statutes
of the party and elects a Central
Committee ; this directs the party
in the interval between
Congresses. Hitherto, the
Central Committee elected the
Politbureau (to control general
policy), an Orgbureau (to direct
the cadres of the party) and a
Secretariat. Now the Polit-
bureau and the Orgbureau will
give way to a Presidium, whose
real role still remains to be
revealed.
Moscow
Looks Ahead
by B. D. SINGER
In theory the rank-and-file
both chose the higher organs and
owed them obedience. This was
called “democratic centralism.”
There was obviously more
centralism than democracy, as is
shown by the fact that the
“supreme body” has since 1939
not “exercised” its prerogative.
Power has shifted from the
Congress to the Central Com-
mittee, from the latter to the late
Politbureau Mr. Churchill's
“13 men in the Kremlin” —and
ultimately into Stalin’s own
hands.
Yet, though the Congress has
become a mere puppet-show
directed from behind the scenes,
it remains the major event of
Soviet political life. It is still
the occasion for reviewing poli-
tical events and economic
achievements, for laying down
economic targets and the party
line and tactics, for infusing new
blood into the party—promoting
the favorites and dropping the
disgraced.
If comparisons could be made
between different regimes, a
British equivalent would require
an assembly to witness in 10 days
or so an electoral programme, a
King’s Speech, a Government
reshuffle and five economic
reviews rolled into one.
At the last Congress, in
March* 1939, Stalin reported on
behalf of the Central Committee
and made his famous utterance
about Russia’s unwillingness,
confronted with Flitler’s aggres-
sive and the Western Powers’
appeasing policy, to “pull the
chestnuts out of the fire” for
others. Then Georgi M.
Malenkov, who had only just
been elected to the Central Com-
mittee, was not even an official
spokesman, thofigh already
prominent behind the scenes and
selected for both Secretariat and
Orgbureau. Now the 50-year-
old Malenkov will be the Central
Committee’s rapporteur, a role
performed hitherto by Lenin and
Stalin.
His has indeed been a startling
career. Like Stalin, whose foot-
steps he has been following
closely, Malenkov is essentially
a party boss ; he joined the party
after the Revolution, was work-
ing in the 1920’s in the Central
Committee, apparently as Stalin’s
secretary, and then as an
organiser in the Moscow region.
He specialised in the selection of
men and the manipulation of the
party machine. Rising rapidly
after 1939, he has been for the
last few years the only man
besides Stalin to hold simul-
taneous membership of the Polit-
bureau, Orgbureau and the
Secretariat. It was from these
very same strategic points in the
hierarchy that Stalin began his
struggle for power.
Malenkov certainly looks the
foremost man of the younger
generation. His greatest rival,
Zhdanov, died in 1948, while the
security chief Lavrenti Beria is
under the disadvantage of being
a Georgian, like Stalin: his
appointment to succeed him
would be taken as the beginning
of a Georgian dynasty.
There remains, however,
Molotov, who belongs to the
generation between Stalin and
Malenkov. At the 1939 Congress
Molotov was playing second-
fiddle to Stalin ; he cannot be
counted out of the race for
power.
Behind the Five-year Plan, too,
there probably lies a story of
fluctuating personal fortunes.
The last two five-year plans had
as author the gifted young
economist, Voznessensky; but
in 1949 he was dropped from the
post of chairman of the Central
Planning Commission and has
not been heard of since.
Saburov, who will present the
current plan next month, was
not even on the Central Com-
mittee before the war.
The economic background to
these changes —if they are to be
genuine changes —is fairly clear.
From their enormous past invest-
ments in modern equipment, in
mechanised agriculture, affores-
tation and irrigation, the
Russians hope to reap a reward
in the shape of higher pro-
ductivity.
The planners seem to hope, if
their plans are really genuine,
that this will enable them not
only to keep to the present tempo
in heavy industry, but to speed
up the output of consumer-goods
to almost the same pace. This
means not only producing much
more coal or steel, but also
increasing the output of shoes
and cotton-goods by more than
half. More ambitious still is the
agricultural programme, with its
plans to increase grain-produc-
tion by nearly one-half.
Whatever happens to con-
sumer-goods, heavy industry
should almost certainly reach its
targets by 1955. By that time
the Soviet Union should be pro-
ducing more coal than the U.K.
and Germany combined now
produce, and more steel than the
present combined output of
Britain, France and Germany.
The purpose is clearly to outstrip
Europe and catch up with the
United States, which is now pro-
ducing one-third more coal,
more than twice the steel and
four times the oil that the
Russians plan for 1955.
The shape of the Five-year
Plan suggests that the men in the
Kremlin believe that they and
their allies can bridge the gap
between Communist economic
power and that of the West.
They are losing the superiority
in military power that they have
had since the war, but they may
believe that they are making up
for it in industrial potential.
That time is on their side may
well be the major premise of
Soviet foreign policy ; the later
the conflict with the West comes,
the better for the Kremlin.
Whether this is in fact the trend
in Soviet thinking can be judged
more surely when next month’s
Congress is over.


m
Expert Management of
YOUR AFFAIRS
If impending absence abroad, ill health or pressure of other business
necessitates that you “hand over the reins,” you can place the management
of your affairs with complete confidence in the hands of the Permanent
Trustee Company.
Over sixty years’ experience enables this company to control your affairs
expertly and to conserve your interests, whatever they are and wherever
they may he.
For full details, call in and interview one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for our free booklet —“ Trust
Estates and Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
G. Moncrieff 8arr0n, 0.8.E.,M.8.Ch.M.,F.R.A.C.S
J. R. Faviell. F • B ■ Fleming.
G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F, R. Garland.
Secretary : P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HOUSES FOR ALL
On some Australian “housing
projects” they’ve been building
for years. They’re still building.
They look as if they’ll be build-
ing still when the prospective
occupants are drawing the
pension.
For comparison, the Canadian
publication “Maclean’s” has
given figures on the American-
style building performances of
one William Levitt; they might
be set up against the general
Australian governmental
approach to meeting the housing
shortage.
Levitt, described as a small
red-faced man of 44, is the Ford
of housing. Since the war he
has built “ 17,500-house Levit-
town (N.Y.) and is now build-
ing 16,000-house Levittown,
north of Philadelphia.” His
“techniques have revolutionised
the home-building industry and
dragged other builders into the
movement.” He builds planned
communities, down to parks and
swimming-pools, and he has
lopped from 25 to 40 per cent,
off cost of a house.
In the first town he built he
finished a house every 45 minutes
(not years, minutes). In the
latest job he finishes a house
every half-hour. “They are
good houses. The best materials
and machines go into them, from
the copper radiant-heating coils
in the floor to the stainless-steel
sink.” Also, “The 30-odd
shrubs and trees Levitt plants
on your lot are best strains, and
if they die Levitt replaces them.”
The first Levittown has 70,000
inhabitants, 11 shopping centres,
a civic centre, eight public
swimming-pools and 30 play-
grounds, playing-fields and
parks. “It has no movie theatres.
Levittown is the first city of the
television age: 5000 houses
came with built-in TV.” The
houses are anything but stereo-
typed. Designs vary radically.
They are beautiful homes. To
repeat the “Maclean’s” magazine
description of merely the inside
painting of one of them would
be downright cruelty to dumb
house-seekers.
On a different level altogether
a London “Spectator;” writer,
Thomas Garner James, gives
what could be even more truly
a glimpse of the universal future
in the way of homes. “More
than one of every hundred of
the prosperous citizens of the
United States,” he says, “now
live the year round, happily and
by choice, in a caravan-trailer.”
The proportion is increasing,
and scattered over the U.S. are
thousands of special “trailer
parks” for their use. These
parks, “increasing at the rate of
at least 2000 a year,” are not
mere areas of land set aside ;
they are properly “organised
sites, catering for this auto-
nomadic way of life”:
“On the better sites are such
amenities as mains-water, sani-
tation. electricity and gas piped
directly to the 30ft. to 50ft. vans,
plus private telephones, barbecue-
pits and flower-bordered paved
patios as outdoor sunbathed
living-rooms for each van ; com-
munal swimming-pools, play-
grounds and television for the
children ; coin-operated laundries
and ready-prepared frozen-food
shops for the wives, as well as
the usual multitudinous .and
übiquitous shpp-to-kitchen-door
delivery services.”
Caravan-building is actually
given a very high priority in
America’s defence programme.
Many of the caravan-dwellers
are defence workers. They
drive on to their allotted site,
hook up with electricity and so
forth, and may live there for a
year or more, as in a town, be-
fore moving on, perhaps half-
across the country .to another job.
Altogether they represent a huge
mobile defence-work force,
which can be scattered or con-
centrated as required.
Thus, as part of its defence
programme, the U.S. is “putting
on wheels the equivalent of a
considerable new housing de-
velopment every twenty-four
hours” ; it amounts to the crea-
tion of “a petrol-powered
mobilopolis.” *
Turning an eye to Australia,
the “Spectator” writer suggests
that in this development might
be the answer to the main
migration problem; he pictures
British migrants fitted-up with
caravan as cabin aboard ship on
the way out and mobile home
when they get here. So that
here the mobile home could
make a considerable contribu-
tion to the housing shortage (and
to population,., and also decen-
tralisation), ana, as in America,
could make possible an entirely
new mobile working force for
peace development projects or
War-time construction or muni-
tion jobs.
Perhaps another advantage of
homes on wheels might be added
to the “Spectator” writer’s list:
It'could be the future mode of
living in an atom age.
From the Horse's
Mouth
London (Labor-party) “Daily
Herald” leading article:
“The [British] Labor party’s
policy statement, ‘Facing the
Facts,’ is worthy of its title.
“What we like about this state-
ment is its frank insistence that
Britain’s troubles cannot be
solved unless production is
increased.
“We can get more coal from
our mines ; produce more steel;
grow more food. And, says
Labor’s Executive Committee,
we must do all three.
“If we want to avoid bank-
ruptcy we must sell more goods
abroad. If we want to expand
the social services we must ‘see
that the community’s resources
are made greater,’
“An international agreement
to increase the flow of trade
would, as the statement points
out, immensely help Britain.
“But, whether such an agree-
ment is reached or not, it will
still be vital that we make the
utmost effort to become more
efficient and to increase our
output.
“Our industrial methods must
be brought up-to-date. Consulta-
tion between management and
workers —still half-hearted in
many important industries —-
must become part of the pattern
of opr national life.”
Pacific Pact
Non-inclusion of J. Bull in
security arrangements for the
Pacific remains a sore point in
British comment.
Thus, in Edinburgh “Scots-
man ” Patrick Maitland, stating
. M 'i>DLe.c
New York “Herald Tribune.”
IF THE BOWL WERE STRONGER....
that Mr. Eden seeks Britain’s
inclusion at the earliest possible
moment, sees in the Pacific Pact
an instance of the “great long-
term divergences” of essential
British from essential U.S. policy
in several theatres.
“One such basic divergence is
the Mediterranean and Middle
East. To the United States the
Mediterranean is the European
flank ; to the [British] Common-
wealth it is a lifeline. To the
United States the Middle East is
a Russian frontier; to the
[British] Commonwealth it is a
bulwark of the lifeline.
“It is the same in the Far East
and the Pacific. The United
States, ’having reversed its one-
time intention to abandon Japan
and its actual abandonment of
Korea in June, 1949, is now con-
cerned both to play the major
role in Japan and to insulate the
country from its traditional
Asian hinterland. The automatic
consequence is that American
policy aims to divert Japanese
trade into South-East Asia rather
Ihan to allow it to penetrate
:hina.”
On the other hand, he says, it
s a direct British interest—and
me which Australia and New
Zealand would endorse —that
fapanese influence should be
liver ted from that fringe. Like-
wise, it is to British, Australian
md New Zealand advantage that
the countries of South-East Asia
and the Indian Ocean should, if
possible and fair, engage in
security systems. But:
“The United States idea of
future membership of the Pacific
Pact group is this —Japan, the
Philippines, Indonesia and
Canada. Britain is to be
excluded here,” despite the
British dependencies in the area
—Hong Kong, Borneo, the
Solomons, the Fijis, the Gilbert
and Ellice Islands.
“In other words, the Pacific
Pact does express the trend of
United States policy not only to
associate Japan with the South
Seas to the embarrassment of
Australia and New Zealand, but
also to exclude British influence
from any direct, let alone
important, say in Pacific affairs.”
On this line of criticism in
general “New York Times” has
pointed out that the A.N.Z.U.S.
arrangement is a nucleus to be
built on, and that one reason
why “the three Powers [U.S.-
Australia-N.Z.] decided to ‘go
slow’ in the expansion pro-
gramme” was that the commit-
ments they, and the U.S, in par-
ticular, have made to a global
defence are already taxing their
resources. For that reason any
specific system erected on the
expectation of increased
American aid would seem to be,
at the moment, rather un-
realistic ; hence the eschewing of
more grandiose schemes.
“They have not created a
Pacific N.A.T.O. with a vast
military programme. They have
created workable machinery to
co-ordinate their policies and
integrate their armed forces as a
framework for later accessions.
This co-ordination and integra-
tion will be accomplished by
annual meetings of the
A.N.Z.U.S. Council, by special
meetings and continuous con-
sultation among its deputies, and
by a tripartite military committee
which will consider and recom-
mend measures for improving
the defence of the Pacific on the
basis of mutual assistance and
self-help.
“That is a good start and a
good augury for greater things
to come. Contrary to some
British views, that start has been
made without in any way dis-
turbing either the unity of the
British Empire or the existing
political relations of any of the
participating Powers. The
expansion programme envisaged
is itself proof that the new
security system is being built on
no exclusive basis for the defence
of special interests, but on a
broad design providing room for
all, including Britain.”
New Elizabethans
If the old Elizabethan spirit
doesn’t revive under the new
Queen Elizabeth it won’t be for
want of publicising and en-
couraging the idea.
It crops up now in advertising
and wherever it is at all applic-
able in Press comment.
Naturally it is applied to
Britain’s latest great achieve-
ments in the air. Thus, London
“Daily Telegraph”:
“This year it has been the
special feat of the pilots of the
newer aircraft to break through
what is graphically known as the
‘sound barrier’ —not once or
twice, but as often as desired.
This is a feat comparable with
the great voyages of the earlier
Elizabethans ; and the modern
mariners can apply to them-
selves the words of the ancient,
‘We were the first that ever
burst into that silent sea.’”
Also, London “Daily Express,”
in its customary even more
ecstatic style:
“If Britain can achieve such
wonders in the, dangerous ele-
ment of the sky, what can stop
her from surpassing all rivals
on land and sea and under the
sea as well?
“In the Empire alone the
prospects are a thousand times
more glittering than those which
beckoned the sailors of Elizabeth
I.”
On Britain’s actual achieve-
ment aloft, as revealed by the
new Elizabethans to their cheer-
ing fellow-countrymen and no
less enthusiastic foreign guests
at the Farnborough air display,
the “Daily Mail” said: “We are
at least four years in front of
any other country —America in-
cluded —in the field of civil
aviation.”
The U.S. magazine “American
Aviation” made the frank find-
ing : “The British are giving the
United States a drubbing in jet
transport.”
True, the London correspon-
dent of “New York Times” was
able to note one snag: “British
aircraft manufacturers had a
mighty fine lot of products on
display in their show windows,
but not enough goods in the
stockroom to meet the demand.
Still,” he added, “it was nice to


02
sS
m
I:;
I
a
ip?
«**
A VESTA 6 VOLT 13 PLATE BATTERY WAS TAKEN
FROM STOCK AND FITTED TO A 1949 CHEVROLET SEDAN
FIRST The battery oranked the engine continuously FOR 10 MINUTES
with the ignition switched off.
SECOND immediately following, it started the engine 761 CONSEC*
UTIVE TIMES in a period of 60 minutes.
THIRD Again with ignition switched off, it cranked the engine
CONTINUOUSLY FOR A FURTHER 4 MINUTES 45 SECONDS
before it became discharged.
The above test was conducted under the supervision of and is certified by
the Chief Engineer of the Notional Roads and Motorists' Association, Mr
C. H. Napthali, the President of the Service Station Association of N.S.W.,
Mr. A. W. Saveli, and the Motoring Editor of "MIRROR" and "TRUTH"
Newspapers, Mr. B. Jackson.
THE NEW VESTA BATTERY iS ON SALE AT ALL
LEADING GARAGES - - NO INCREASE IN PRICES
Ever actuary driven
a daveUnyouvedfiP
There must be some very active reason why a person
who has never been in a Javelin before looks on it as
the car after one short drive.
Perhaps you’d like to try her for yourself and find
out. Hey, steady with that throttle! Maybe you’re not
used to driving a car that’ll clock 50 in a quarter of a
minute from standing.
Maybe you’ve never heard of a 1| litre saloon that
will cruise all day in the 60’s and touch 80. Maybe you
never knew what torsion bar suspension could do to
bumps or used a gear change that’s so quick and positive.
The Javelin is a waste of money if you don’t care what
a car does. There’s such a lot built into it that doesn’t
really show until you have one in your hands real
family comfort economy and performance.
Best speed, electrically timed, 80 m.p.h. Acceleration
0-50 m.p.h. in 15-4 secs. (“The Motor” 1952 Road
Test). Horizontally opposed flat-four engine gives
30 m.p.g.
'
The H litre
JOWETT JAVELIN
one day — it has to be YOURS !
DISTRIBUTORS: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Liberty
Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Redman Motors, Brisbane;
B.E.A. Distributors Ltd., Adelaide; Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Perth; Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Made by Jowett Cars Limited, Idle, Bradford, Yorkshire,
who make the Jowett Jupiter convertible class winner
of 9 major trials and races in 1950/51 and, of course, the
famous range of 8 h.p. Bradford commercial vehicles.
hear the customers clamoring
for a change.”
And the .“Daily Mail,” which
ran the air show as a sort of
editorial serial, came to a happy
ending, as a serial should;
“This is the most thrilling thing
that has happened to Britain for
years. These astonishing ad-
vances in performance have
crept upon us almost unawares.
All of a sudden we are miles
ahead in an era of sonic booms
and delta wings.
“The world has been told that
as a nation we are played out.
Cartoons from other countries
have shown John Bull as a tat-
tered, bleary-eyed, decrepit men-
dicant.
“There was never a bigger
mistake. Farnborough showed
that in invention, design and
sheer good workmanship Britain
has still a lot of something the
others have not got.”
Tito Turnabout
Tito, while “bowing gracefully
to the image of Yugoslav inde-
pendence,” is, says “Manchester
Guardian,” now “backing care-
fully towards an alliance with
his non-Communist neighbors”
—i.e., Greece and Turkey.
Tito has himself said regard-
ing them that “There is nothing
to separate our countries.”
As well as moves to settle
political and economic issues, he
has proposed discussion of
military affairs, and “there is
talk of joint army manoeuvres
along a frontier which not long
ago was the firing-line in a fierce,
if unofficial, war.”
Tito recently said that Yugo-
slavia wishes co-operation on
military matters, but cannot join
a treaty because it would give
the Soviet Union “a pretext to
allege that we are preparing war
against them”—which, notes
“Manchester Guardian,” is pre-
cisely the reason he gave for
rejecting shipments of arms from
the West a mere eighteen months
ago. He is accepting the ship-
ments today without a qualm ;
hence, “it may be that his qualms
about a treaty will not last so
very long.”
China: Two Views
The general British view on
China can be seen in a sentence
from London “Daily Tele-
graph” :
“Within the immense country
over which he is the virtual
dictator, Mao Tse-tung appears
to enjoy an independence of the
Kremlin’s political control which
distinguishes his position sharply
from the satellites of Eastern
Europe.”
“New York Times” expresses
the general American view:
“The Chinese Communist
leaders still compete in showing
loyalty to the Kremlin masters,
and they are still dependent on
Moscow for crumbs of economic
aid as well as for military
supplies. Chou and Mao cannot
be treated as cavalierly by Stalin
as their counterparts in, say,
Bulgaria, but the differences are
still those of form rather than
substance. Communist China
is still basically a satellite and
tool of the Soviet Union.”
Various Voices
Dr. Ehlers, president of the
West German Bundestag:
“Everybody should realise that
the overwhelming mass of the
German people represented in
this House looks on unity under
the knout not as unity at all, but
as the garrotting of the German
people. For us, unity and liberty
at home and abroad are indis-
solubly linked.”
Sir Comptgn Mackenzie:
“Television is a threat to authors.
You cannot look at it and read
even a threehalfpenny news-
paper, let alone a book. The
only thing we can do is to try
to perform on it and cash in on
it. It is particularly menacing to
children, who are being definitely
discouraged from reading for
themselves. The whole trend of
life at the present moment is
against children reading.”
Sir Thomas Beecham : “I take
the primitive view that music is
meant to be heard. Modern
composers think too little of
sound.”
Sir William Slim ( war-time
“speech” to a bunch clustered
around a jeep, recalled in
London “Daily Herald”): “I’m
Slim. I’ve come up here to show
my face, so that you’ll recognise
it quickly. There are two rea-
sons why I want you to recognise
it. The first is that I don’t want
you to shoot at me next time
you see me; the second is I
want you to say, ‘The old b ’s
still here, so he must be some
good.’ ”
President of the British Board
of Trade, Thornecroft: “It is no
part of our hopes and wishes that
the citizens of the United States
should tax themselves into
poverty in order that their
country might become the soup-
kitchen of the Western world.
We Want to pay our way, to sell
more to America so that in the
long-run—and I’m afraid it must
be the long-run—we can buy
more from America.”
Eisenhower: “First and fore-
most, it is almost trite to say
that our own country [U.S.A.]
must remain solvent, that bank-
ruptcy for us would be a
tremendous, if not a decisive,
victory for the Kremlin.”
General Ridgway (on the need
for two years’ military service):
“In these days of numerous and
complex weapons it takes at least
a year for a man to complete the
cycle of unit- and combined-
arms training. It takes a great
London “News Chronicle."
ANOTHER HONEYMOON?
deal more for specialists. It
does not seem justified that the
State, which has made such an
investment in a man, should lose
that man just as he is about to
pay dividends.”
M. Paul-Henri Spaak (for a
Federal Europe): “A single
European market, or, if we
cannot create it whole, the
greatest possible European
market, is the only means of get-
ting mass —and cheapl—produc-
tion, the only means of develop-
ing our production in a way that
would make it possible for us to
face both the necessary rearming
and the maintenance of the
standard of life of our popula-
tions.”
Lord Swinton: ‘lmperial
Preference has increased the
trade of the Empire with the rest
of the world. We must preserve
our full freedom to grant and
receive preferences.”
Sir Ben Lockspeiser: “The
cheap food [Britain could once
import] has gone, and we should
be wise to assume it has gone for
good. Whatever food we can
produce—and I believe we have
to produce far more —we must
make the best use of.”
U.S. Presidential candidate
Stevenson : “The tragedy of our
day is the climate of fear in
which we live, and fear always
breeds repression. Too often
sinister threats to the Bill of
Rights, to freedom of the mind,
are concealed under the patriotic
cloak of anti-Communism.”
British Liberals’ chairman,
Philip Fothergill: “On a purely
superficial showing there may be
some excuse for the conclusion
that as time passes we [Great
Britain] shall count for less and
less in the councils of the nations,
and that we shall hold our posi-
tion as a great Power more by
courtesy than on merit. I
believe this to be an utterly
fallacious conclusion. Britain
not merely can but must exert
an increasingly important in-
fluence as an independent Power
upon world affairs.”


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
C. 0. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
10 YEARS' GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years
against faulty materials
or workmanship.
A SPECIAL
OVEN FOR EVERY
COOKING PURPOSE
It’s sheer heaven to cook with a
four-oven Aga! In addition to three
hotplates, you have a Roasting oven
big enough to take your Christmas
turkey; a Baking oven to bake cakes
and bread; a Simmering oven for
slow, economical, flavoursome cook-
ing such as soups and casseroles;
and a Warming oven where food
waits unspoilt, hour after hour.
Each Aga oven automatically main-
tains correct temperature , and since
the Aga never goes out it’s always
"just right” for cooking.
P.S. Thermostatic control
guarantees fuel economy!
THEqOVIN
AGA
„ COOKER ,
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR THE AGA COOKER
AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES ______ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND „ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA ______ Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ _A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
Di vorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO AUGUSTINE PATRICK O’HALLORAN
late of 27 Park Road Mascot. —TAKE
NOTICE that MADGE LOUISE
O’HALLOHAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2950 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 28th November 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from HAROLD R. BUSHBY,
STEED & CO., Solicitors, 10 Martin Place,
Sydney, Australia. —J. DOUQHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN BARTLETT MORRIS late of
SO Central Avenue, Mosman. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOAN MORRIS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 8252 of 1952 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
28th November 1952 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
HAROLD R. BUSHBY, STEED & CO.,
Solicitors, 10 Martin Place, Sydney,
Australia.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN“the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS JOSEPHINE BRENNAN
late of Hillston and of 88 Park Road,
St. Peters.—TAKE NOTICE that
CHARLES RAYMOND BRENNAN has
filed a Petition of Divorce No. 3233 of
1951 on the grounds 'of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney' by the 14th November 1952 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. KERSHAW,
MATTHEWS, LANE & GLASGOW, Soli-
citors, Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
Sydney, or MESSRS. CATER & BLUMER,
Solicitors, Kooyoo Street, Griffith.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES WILLIAM BURTON (also
known as JOHN WAYNE JOHN STARR
and JOHN MAHER) late of Warrawong
Port Kembla. —TAKE NOTICE that OLGA
EUNICE BURTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3246 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
Ist December 1952 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from J.
BIRNIB JACKSON & COATES, Solicitors,
of 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO DAVID ANDERSON address unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife SYLVIA
MYRTLE ANDERSON has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of desertion by you for a
continuous period of three years or more
If you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within Thirty clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence. —
DATED this 11th day of September, 1951.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED
CURRAN, ESQ., of 37-38 Padbury Build-
ings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the State
of Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
Missing Friend
Will GEORGE ANDERSON, Railway
Carpenter, who resided, in Townsville and
left there for Sydney about 85 years ago,
brother of the late W. Anderson, of Trans-
vaal, South Africa, or his descendants, or
anyone knowing his or their whereabouts,
please communicate with Australia and
New Zealand Bank Ltd., Charters Towers.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
sdf
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
CuARD
f ly
PPOTECTA
Sunl-Sttifitf/U
TILL
Suitable for every type of business (I recorde
all Sales. Credits. Payouts ete. Sir on jly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send lor 101 l details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH •• ..Docket Book 00. (Aust)
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
So order accepted under U&
weight.
ASSOCIATED
tobacco distributors,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Hits! Skits! and
Jingles I by W. T. G00dge.—5299.
To buy copy of Encyclopaedia of
Knots and Fancy Ropes. —5287.
To buy Perrier No. 2 woolpress.—
5290.
To buy copies of books by “Steele
Rudd.”—s29l.
Bulletin staff man wants to rent
Sydney furnished flat or cottage.
Waterside suburb preferred. —5289.
Words of recitation “The Ships
That Won’t Go D0wn.”—5302.
Whereabouts of one-time Bulletin
artist Denis Connelly. —5303.
To get in touch with the literary
executors of Dr. C. H. Souter and
David H. Souter. —5304.
To buy all or any of the old one-
shilling paper-back Australian novels
published by the N.S.W. Bookstall
C 0.—5305.
Clerk, Sydney, invites literary
propositions where services and £2OO
could be profitably employed.—s 322.
To buy Vol. 1, My Diary North
and South, by Dr. W. H. Russell,
and Vol. 2, Sturt’s Journey Into the
Interior (1846-49). —5307.
To buy copy of Radiant Land and
Other Verses by T. V. Tierney.—s3oB.
To buy new or second-hand book
on script engraving.—s3o9.
To buy copy of Old Australian
Bush Ballads by Vance Palmer and
Margaret Sutherland. —5310.
Copy of short story “The Lady in
the Red Hat” by Grant Hervey
5312.
To buy copy of Bushman and
Buccaneer by Harry Morant (“The
Breaker”). —5313.
Any publication showing diagrams
for cutting-up of beasts (sheep and
bullocks) as applicable to Australian
beasts and conditions. Required tor
use on a north-Westralian sheep-
station where only natives are avail-
able for the butchering, under un-
skilled supervision.—s3l4.
To buy copy of The Singing Gold
by Dorothy Cottrell. —5323,
Information Sought
Purpose of the colored lights used
on planes in night-flying ? Why are
some fixed and others switched on
and off continually during flight ?
Aircraft lights are generally sited
in the same relation to the plane as
are lights on a ship. The so-called
“navigation lights” are red and green,
and placed on the port and starboard
wingtip, respectively, in the same
manner as lights on a ship’s bridge.
By being called navigation lights it
signifies that they are for a passing
aircraft to navigate by; in other
words, so that the plane can be
avoided and also so that the general
direction in which it is flying can be
ascertained. Similarly a tail light is
placed at the furthest point aft of
the aircraft structure for the same
reason. The light underneath the
aircraft is called the identification
light. It can be flashed by the cap-
tain as a means of giving the plane’s
callsign to an observer on the
ground. The flashing lights are merely
a method used on the more modern
types of aircraft to make their
presence clearer to an observer,
primarily the control-officer in the
tower on an airfield. Steady lights
can be easily mistaken for stars in
certain classes of visibility, but an
evenly flashing group cannot so be
mistaken. The older types of aircraft,
of which there are so many in Aus-
tralian skies, notably the DC3, are
not fitted with a flashing mechanism,
therefore it is only seen when a
modern aircraft, such as the DC4 or
Convair, is overhead.
* * * *
Details concerning “Golden Gloves’ ■’
boxing .awards? Are they amateur
or professional awards ? Are they
confined to America ?
The “Golden Gloves” boxing com-
petitions are held in many big
American cities. They are strictly
amateur tournaments, and, like
amateur championships in Australia
years ago, they prove to be grand
nursing grounds for future profes-
sional champions, Fidel La Barba,
Joe Louis and “Sugar” Ray Robin-
son being but three world champions
who began boxing as Golden Glovers.
These championships are called the
“Golden Gloves” because the winner
of each division in any city is pre-
sented with a miniature glove made
of gold. At present the “Golden
Gloves” are confined to U.S.A.,
but tentative steps have been taken
to hold similar tournaments in
Canada, France, England and Japan.
■ * * *
How much did the East-West rail-
way cost to build, and how was its
construction financed ?
The total cost of construction of
the East-West railway was £8,470,000.
Of this amount £1,826,000 was pro-
vided from revenue and £6,644,000
from the Works Loan Fund. Of the
amount provided from the Works
Loan Fund, approximately £5,300,000
was borrowed from the Australian
Notes Fund, the balance being
borrowed partly from other Com-
monwealth funds and partly from the
public. The greater portion of the
Notes Fund moneys loaned to the
Treasury for this purpose represented
profits derived from interest on in-
vestments. These transactions took;
place before the note-issue was trans-
ferred to the Commonwealth Bank in
192 °- * * * *
What is the significance of “points”
of value in stock-exchange reports?
“Points” are a measure of share-
price fluctuation. They are another
form of expression of movements in
index-numbers which are used in
respect to share prices. Ihe index
form of measurement follows a pat-
tern of selecting a given parcel ot
shares, calculating their price at a
given period (called a base period)
and equating this figure to 100. L ; d er
price-fluctuations above or below
these prices are measured in units
or points above or below 100. The
Sydney Stock Exchange base period
is 1934 when prices were equated to
100 One index at the moment shows
156.67, which means that prices have
risen by 56.67 points above the 1934
ievd -....
What Sydney suburbs are not built
on a clay subsoil ?
Large areas of most of the Sydney
suburbs north of the Harbor are
built on sandstone. This applies to
the northern fine from about Ryde
to Hornsby, and to the North Shore
line from North Sydney to Hornsby
and beyond. Generally speaking
those parts of the suburbs on the
main ridges, and hence close to the
railways, have a clay subsoil, while
those parts situated in the gullies
remote from the rail are on sand-
stone. Certain suburbs south ot
Sydney, including Sylvania, Oatley
and Como, are on sandstone, as also
are the eastern suburbs from Darling-
hurst to Watson’s Bay. A geological
map of the Sydney district is avail-
able from the N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment, price 55., postage 9d., from
which more detailed information
could be obtained.
Brief Answers
C.C.; 10th Batt., Ist A.1.F.,
less Transport Section, embarked
H M.A.T. Ascanius at Adelaide on
October 20, 1914. The Transport
Section made the voyage aboard
H.M.A.T. Saldanha.* The 16th Batt.
embarked H.M.A.T; Ceramic at Port
Melbourne on December 22, 1914.
G.A.B.; The matter is covered
in Section 98 of the Post and Tele-
graph Act, 1901-13... .D.P.S.G.:
British Malayan Petroleum Co.,
Seria, Brunei, Borneo J.D.: The
wall, if built on a firm foundation
and well bonded into the house wall
at one end, will stand quite high
wind pressures, but better practice
would be to construct a 9in. x 14in.
pier at the free end of the wall. Such
walls are more likely to fail at their
foundations than within the wall
itself. It is therefore recommended
that a cement mortar of one part
cement and three parts sand be used
to lay the lower half of the wall if
wind velocities of 60 m.p.h. are to
be resisted L.L.L.: Electroplated
nickel silver articles are usually made
from alloys of copper, zinc and
nickel, sometimes known as nickel
brasses and electroplated with high
purity silver. The best - quality
E.P.N.S. articles are made from
alloys containing about 20 per cent
nickel, but' in some cases much lower
percentages of nickel are used to
reduce cost. Silver is the only metal
normally used for plating such articles.
R.McK.: Jack Carroll and Ron
Richards fought at Sydney Stadium
on July 23, 1934. Carroll won at
end of round 13, when Richards
claimed that he could not continue
because of a badly-jarred thumb
J.R.: (1) The vessel on the Norfolk
Island run does not call at Norfolk
Island on its return journey, and
passengers wishing to return to
Australia must return via the New
Hebrides, Solomon and New Guinea
at the minimum rate of £B7. (2)
Before passage-ticket can be issued
for Norfolk Island passengers must
have in their possession taxation
clearance... .P.W.C.: The poem “The
Blindin’, Blazin’ West” was written
by G. Herbert Gibson (“Ironbark”),
and appears in his Ironbark Splinters
from the Australian Bush. .. .P.P.:
The phrase “Be sure your sin will
find you out” is from Numbers,
chap. 32, verse 23 R.P.: See The
Bulletin of February 6, 1952.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
N. 8.: From the way he talked and
acted he was less a member of the
Communist party than of a churcn
sewing-circle M.V.: We don t say
he couldn’t have strangled her wxtn
his beard; but Browning’s lover
strangling the girl with her own hair
brought a symbolism into play that
your idea seems to lack. .. .R A.: A
loony-hatch was a more proper
asylum than these pages for your
Chinaman H.H.: Now, if your
machine-story had been self-winding!
D.D.: We reached for the fly-
spray M.M.: We came up for a
breather after the fourth stanza, then
gave it best D.M.: Didn’t quite
make the grade; try elsewhere
J.F.F.: Have long grown weary of
city-versus-bush poems A.McL.;
It appears to have been written in
the middle of a hangover K.S.:
Back they go to the Shivery Isles.
B.L.: There might have been
some excuse for your detective-story’s
keeping the reader in suspense had
it left him in solution J.L.; If
Captain Cook wore ruffles and said
“Zounds!” you can stap our vittles.
T.R.: Sorry, but you can’t unfurl
that banner in our columns 1.H.;
Trifling M. 8.: You can assure
your friends that you have not “a bit
of a flare [«'c] for writing poetry.”
M.G.: Try us again when you
are older FJ.E.; They tread a
well-worn path J. 8.: The mail-
man travels a bumpy road V.S.:
Your mountain snowberry will not
blossom in our pages M.F.G.:
None of the three rises to any great
heights S.C.R.: It jogs along very
unevenly..-. .V.C.: Another journal
might snap them up... .R.S.R.:
Three lines then, even if they might
have been written by Ogden Nash:—
The praying mantis
Got antis
In his pantis.
. ...J.M.F.: “Arise Ye Dead” is
sleeping it off in the w.p.b
A.G.N.: See nothing in the three
submitted to justify any high hopes.
.... J.C.: Almost tempted by the
rhyme about the female dipsomaniac.
W.G.B.: We have space for one:
Oft in the stilly breeze.
Out through the village trees.
It comes, and with its coming brings
Joyous thoughts of lovely things.
A scent that like a magic power
Draws me to a lighted bower
Where ever eager parted lips
Taste at last my fish and chips.
E.M.P.: Ned is not for us—
F.V.: You are but one of the 257
this week anxious to whisper in our
ears that spring is here R.L.:
Shakspeare did it better.


f
i
m
M
N
rK.
tffSSS*
m
*fO#£-y
J/y
2>
/<
Sfflß
're
Ttv
■
WITH
sM
THE
TRACTOR
*/
U
High road speed between jobs is almost as important to you as
a good drawbar pull on the job! The Nuffield Universal tractor
has both! With a top speed of 18 m.p.h., the Nuffield Universal,
with 6-way power, is the ideal tractor for Australian conditions.
Completely equipped with swinging drawbar, belt pulley, power
take-off, five forward speeds, hydraulically-operated 3-point
linkage, and full electrical equipment, the Nuffield Universal
handles the work of a 10-horse team at an average fuel con-
sumption of from 1-1/3 gallons per hour. Kerosene operated.
“Cold Start” Diesel models also available.
IT HAS EVERYTHING! IT DOES EVERYTHING!
wmm DISTRIBUTORS— ®
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: FLINDERS MOTORS LTD.
South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
WfFifu
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
WBTIEID
DEALER
NTII-24-52
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PA!
K, ZETLAND, N.S.W
E. Filling Hole Roof Panel
K. Filling Hole Ring
14-4 MEAN/DIAM.
r
Auger Chute (2,000 Bushel Size) P, Bagging Outlet
GRAIN SILOS
AND GENERAL PURPOSE STORAGE UNITS
PREFABRICATED BV
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE
PROMPT DELIVERY
Top
16G.
Gal, Iron, Formed.
•
Sides
I6G. Gal. Iron, s**
Corrugations.
All Bolts, Nuts and
Washers supplied.
Complete erection
instructions supplied
with each Silo.
Bottom to be pro-
vided by purchaser.
12-18 bags cement,
or
“Earth Ring" sup-
plied slight extra
cost.
0
Available with 2nd
Bagging Outlet in
lieu of Auger Chute.
No extra charge.
9
Capacities— Price*
at
Bushels Works
2.000 £l9B
3.000 £249
3,500, _ £272
4,500 r £321
ALSO NOW AVAILABLE—I,OOO BUSHEL MODEL £llB
Agents' names supplied on application to
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., CAPITAL CITIES
damsels launder at roadside
fountains, furbish long tresses
lambent as lights in sparkling
spumante. I pretend not to
notice.
At Colonna Beach the
cameriere sets a table where we
can enjoy terrace sunshine over-
looking ocean green as a sea-
sick dowager. Behind us the
Benedictine monastery displays
crude war-time murals acquired
as a R.E.M.E. workshop. We
order brodo liscio, lasagna, mer-
lezzi, gruiera and a bottle of
vino di casa.
We decline the grilled octo-
pus ; mussels and oysters con-
taminated with typhoid and city
sewage. The vermicelli writhes
so vigorously it looks hopped up
with benzedrine. The fish are
the adorable color of dollar
bills, basted with olive-oil. The
lady slips a couple of bodice-
laces to avoid fainting before
the party is over.
“What the world needs,” she
tells me. Profoundly. “Is more
to eat.” She pats her own round
private surplus.
“Sure,” I agree. Solemnly.
Overhead screaming, stream-
ing gulls await our scraps. Gaz-
ing at Adriatic skies is a
hazardous feat. Sliding cloud
shadows compose thermal sym-
phonies. Adriatic surf beats in
the background.
“What’s the cameo worth?” I
ask. Innocently.
“I asked three jewellers.
Almost five hundred dollars.”
Her nose candies under hot sun-
shine,
“Genuine,” I remark.
“Too much for me to afford,”
she regrets. She unpins the
cameo and gives it to me. I put
it in my breast pocket.
PAUNCH protruding majes-
tically, the padrone comes
to inquire about the food. He’s
a jolly rotund Communist
padrone ready to discuss any-
thing from Murmansk to Vladi-
vostok. He’s sticky as opium.
“Generous of you to favor
me,” he drips.
“The lady speaks only Eng-
lish,” I tell him.
“Does she pay well?” he in-
quires. Wickedly.
“Tub-tummy,” I call him.
“Parasite,” he calls me. In an
atomic age, this hocus-pocus
Red is politically equivalent to
a firecracker.
“That will be enough of that,”
snaps the lady. Nastily.
The discerning padrone per-
ceives he is not wanted. He
walks away stiff-legged like an
arrested blackmarketeer,
I light the lady’s cigarette. I
take a brooch from my pants
pocket and pin it on the lady.
“You can have it for fifty,” I
condescend. “Daughter of the
stars.”
The daughter of the stars
twinkles. “I shouldn’t rob you.”
I repudiate such an abomin-
able idea; “Of course you
should.”
She gives me fifty. Fifty dol-
lars. For five hundred.
Sharp dealers, these Ameri-
cans.
The freshening maestrale
scours beach-sand across the
terrace. A fish-boat sails close,
daringly crashing gunwales
under foam. Light freezing rain
feathers down. The padrone
hastily clears terrace tables. The
lady pays the bill, I drop her
at Hotel Italy.
I sit in the super-cinema to kill
time before the accidental meet-
ing that will earn my evening
meal. The film is a romantic
legend, pungent with lovers’
potions, with lines from Dante
plastered across kisses to help
the plot hang together. The
female has hips masterfully
moulded and smoky eyes that
fire a thousand dreams. “Love
brought us to this,” says the
dying cavaliero at the dead-end.
And it’s a deadly example to
any lover.
At the corner bar I plunk
down hard-earned lire for a cin-
zanino to steady nerves. I pull
out the cameo to admire my
stock-in-trade. And I swear.
Adagio. I have the fake.
Maybe I misjudged at
Colonna. But I’ve practised so
often.
AT Hotel Italy the commis-
sario tells me the lady has
signed out. His face expresses
irremediable sorrow. He shows
me where she stabbed the regis-
tration-book with a signature five
lines high. Mute manifestation
of a hasty hand. He brightens
when he remembers that the
great lady filched only one
towel.
BETWEEN trains the station
is joyful as advance obitu-
aries. Marcovaldi swabs marble
tops in his coffee-bar. The
news-stand-girl rubs chilled
hands and reads tomorrow’s
news. On bomb-ruined walls
across the rails gleams ragged
lettering: Sinners we are, O
Mother, but your own children.
The policeman says yes to a
green aperitif. Even from me,
a blue-jawed, balding post-war
professional, whose working
capital is touch and go. He tells
me the lady caught the diritis-
simo up through Foggia, Bene-
vento to rainy Naples. I gulp
headache-pills with my cappuc-
cino.
“Why you ask?” he wants to
know. “You owe her money?”
“Ha, ha,” I moan.
Then I change the subject:
“Where’s Nic?”
“Niccolo?”
“Yes, Nic.”
“Nic went with the lady.” He
mixes in a lot of handwork by
way of illustration. He lights
a half-expired cigar, spills ash
down my collar. “I wonder
where they go.”
“America,” I guess. “The lady
is Nic’s sister.”
I mentally send them both to
hell, heaven and purgatory over
remarkable paths. I hope Nic’s
soul will cower in a lame flea’s
frame for ever pursued by dirty
thumbnails.
Outside the sation wind whips
across Railway Square with the
frigid sting of unrequited rage.
Female pariahs titter at me. Tor-
mented temptresses from hell’s
recesses. “Not so lucky this
evening, colleague,” they tell me.
I tell them some native dialect.
thin - faced man. “I re-
member”—
“Quiet!” The brunette
again banged her lemonade-
bottle on the counter.
“As I was saying,” went on
the big man, “I got so fed up
with the dog—and the wife —
that I had the beggar—the dog
—put to sleep. And the very
next morning the wife left me!”
“So you got what you
wanted,” said the brunette.
“Let me finish, madam,” said
the big man. “Yes, I did get
what I wanted —up to a point.
While the wife was waiting at the
station for a train to take her
home to Mother’s, another little
black dog sidled up to her and
she got so interested in it that
she missed her train.”
“I see,” said the thin-faced
man. “She thought she’d give
you another chance, brought the
little black dog home with
her”
“And that’s why I kick little
black dogs,” said the big man.
“But I didn’t want to lose my
wife,” said the thin-faced man.
“She nagged, but all she said
she didn’t mean. I remember
that last tiff we had,”
“She walked out on you and
took the big black cat with her,”
supplemented the big man.
“No, sir,” said the thin-faced
man. “She wished she could
never set eyes on me again!”
“ ’Strewth! ” said the big man,
his voice lowered to almost a
whisper. “You don’t mean to
say she was stroking the big
black cat when she said that?”
“She must have been,” replied
the thin-faced man sadly, “I
haven’t seen her since, or the
cat either.”


FOR IO(
YOUR
FLOCK
A
3
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS
PTY. LIMITED . . . SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. ADELAIDE, PERTH
RUDIPs Dual Purpose DDT Dip and Jetting Compound. RUCIDE* DDT Plunge Sheep Dip. KLEEP* The most efficient fly
dressing. RUSEPTS Antiseptic Emulsion for sterilizing in shed or yards. SULFADIPS Latest sulphur treatment for itch mite
and mycotic dermatitis. L.8.E.: C.5.1.R.0. Scourable branding oil. CARBONTET: Fluke drench. THIODREN: Pheno-
thiazine Powder for worm control. NICOTINE BLUESTONE DRENCH. LIME SULPHUR: For itch mite. P.T.O.
PUMP AND BOOM SPRAYS: for Hormone weed killer application, fire fighting, sheep jetting, air compressor, spray
painting, suction head capacity. KLEENFLOX: Sheep Blow Fly dressing with DDT.
sd
Manufactured by Australia’s largest producers of D.D.T. . . . .from
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
More Wool Per Acre
“R. Ney”: By improving the
pasture on its experiment station
at Shannon Vale, on the N.S.W.
New England tableland, the
State Department of Agriculture
doubled the number of sheep
and trebled the yield of wool per
acre. The country is granite and
the annual rainfall 33in. to 34in.
Work began in 1939, and by
1951 182 of the 600 acres had
been sown to permanent pasture.
The mixture was 21b. of Phalaris
tuberosa, 41b. perennial rye, lib.
New Zealand white clover, 21b.
red clover and 21b. of subter-
ranean clover, sown with lewt.
of superphosphate per acre and
top-dressed annually in
February or March with lewt.
of super, per acre.
All the sown area has been
stocked at two sheep to the acre
for every day of every winter;
Based on 11 years’ actual pro-
duction figures, it is shown that
the carrying-capacity of the un-
improved area was a sheep to
\\ acres, and, allowing for mor-
tality, wool yield was under 51b.
per acre. The sheep were really
on starvation rations.
On the sown pasture the
carrying-capacity was two sheep
to the acre, the wool yield was
over 161 b. per acre, and the
sheep were thriving.
Average cost of establishment
and maintenance from 1939 to
1951 was £6 Bs. 4d. an acre, or
11s. Bd. a year.
The sheep spend half their
time on the sown pasture and
half on the natural pasture,
days of each week on each, and
when one flock is taken off the
sown pasture another flock may
be placed on it immediately.
The work shows that Merinos
can be successfully bred with
low mortality, and it is possible
to mate maiden ewes at 18
months when pastures have been
established. Normally breeding
is impossible on natural pastures
on the granite soils of the eas-
tern falls. November lambing
at Shannon Vale has shown a
better survival-rate than that for
September, in which the weather
is uncertain. Lambs may be
weaned at three months on to
sown pasture, whereupon they
grow well.
Trouble With Herefords
“Oxo”: D. V. Wagner
(Gayndah, Q.) believes the pre-
valence of eye-cancer in Here-
fords is causing losses of suffi-
cient importance to warrant re-
search by the C.5.1.R.0. He
says that spear-grass and buffalo-
flies are responsible for heavy
aggregate losses in cattle, while
a percentage of white-eyed
calves never reach maturity be-
cause they develop eye-cancer.
D. Hutchinson (Woolton,
Theodore, Q.) contends that
much eye-cancer is due to cattle
with weak eyes suffering knocks
about the head, particularly
through constant dipping. Sun-
scald also is considered to be
contributing to eye-cancer. How-
ever desirable such investiga-
tions might be, I think a lot of
primary-producers need to be
reminded of the Biblical story
of the tares and the wheat;
“Let both grow together until
the harvest.”
If future beef-production is
to come from perfect animals
only, many people will go short.
Australia’s cattle numbers to-
day, despite all the excellent
scientific research which has
been done by such organisations
as the C.5.1.R.0., are about the
same as 50 years ago. We have
not yet produced a perfect race
of humans, and perfection in the
animal world may be just as
hard to achieve.
Treating Footrot
“C.S.”: If footrot is likely to
infect sheep a footbath should
be built. The bath hardens the
feet of healthy sheep and de-
stroys early infection, cleanses
and disinfects infected feet.
A 10 per cent, solution of
bluestone (lib. of bluestone to
1 gal, of water) or a 5 per cent,
solution of formalin (one part of
formalin to 20 parts of water)
are the general strengths recom-
mended. N.S.W. departmental
sheep experts say that where the
footrot is bad the strength of the
solutions may be increased to as
much as 30 p.c. and 10 p.c.
respectively. My experience is
that you want to be dashed care-
ful with formalin, which can
injure the sheep if overdone.
Bluestone has antiseptic,
stimulant and astringent proper-
ties and is inexpensive, which is
an important consideration
when large numbers of sheep
have to be treated and re-treated,
but i.t does stain the wool. For-
malin is more expensive, but
doesn’t stain.
To check splashing the depart-
ment says the bottom of the
bath should be padded with
straw or wool. The sheep should
be held in these solutions in the
footbath for about three or four
minutes and not allowed to pass
straight through the bath.
If it can be done, pass the
sheep through a water-bath 10ft.
long in which the feet are
washed, then over a draining
division (battens) sft. long, and
then into the footbath. After
passing from the footbath the
sheep should be run on to a
batten floor and held until the
feet are dry.
Healthy sheep should be
turned into a dry paddock if
possible and the footrotty ones
kept separate.
Lime Is Valuable
~ As an all-round
maintainer of soil-fertility you
can’t beat lime. Worked into
heavy clay soils it brings them
into a good friable condition
that helps drainage and warms
up the soil earlier in the spring.
In dry seasons it prevents bak-
ing and cracking.
Binding action of lime helps
light soil retain moisture. Where
green-manuring is practised or
compost used, it speeds up the
work of the bacteria which
change the organic manure into
plant nutrients. In this field it
makes other plant-foods, such as
phosphorus and potash, avail-
able.
Annual applications of agri-
cultural lime keep up the cal-
cium content in the soil so that
it remains sweet. Vegetables
which thrive best when it is
added to their diet include cab-
bage, peas, spinach, lettuce, beets
and onions. When the cabbage
crop is done throw a light dres-
sing of lime over the soil at the
rate of loz. to the square yard.
Before the next crop goes in
give a second dressing, doubling
the quantity. This prevents the
fungus responsible for clubfoot
of cabbages, cauliflowers,
swedes, etc., forming in the
soil.
Lime is not a fertiliser. Never
apply it at the same time as
artificial fertilisers. One neutra-
lises the good qualities of the
other. Used too often in the
home garden burnt lime reduces
the organic-matter content of
the soil and affects plant tissues.
Meat-meal for Poultry
“Big Billy”: South Australian
tests demonstrate that when
meat-meal is added to poultry
feed egg-production may double
that of fowls fed purely on
wheat and green-feed.
A flock of 400 birds needs
1001 b. of wheat daily if given
wheat alone. But if 151 b. of
wheat is replaced by meat-meal
(851 b. of wheat and 151 b. of
meat-meal) the percentage of
protein is increased from 10 to
15 per cent. Half of the wheat
can be given as crushed grain
with the meat-meal to form a
mash, the balance being whole-
grain, To this should be added
i p.c. of salt.
The cost of 151 b. of meat-
meal (55.) is partly offset by the
3s. 9d. saved by using 151 b. less
wheat, so the net increase in
cost of feeding is Is. 3d. for 400
birds daily. The S.A. tests
showed an increase of six dozen
eggs daily from the 400 hens at
an extra cost of only 2£d. a
dozen.
Green Manure
“Organo”; Much new know-
ledge has improved results
obtained from using “green
manure.”
Under warm, moist conditions
the organic matter added to the
soil decomposes quickly, and
therefore does not provide any
lasting benefit. To obtain most
benefit from it under these con-
ditions the succeeding crop must
be sown within a few weeks of
the “green-manuring” operation.
The nitrogen of the “green
manure” cannot, however, be
available as quickly as that
from sulphate of ammonia, for
it must pass through the
ammonia stage before it is con-
verted to nitrate.
Leguminous crops are
superior to non-legumes because
of their additional nitrogen
only when other things are
equal. Sorghum has been
demonstrated to be an excellent
“green-manure” crop, firstly, be-
cause of its much greater ton-
nage per acre than any legume,
URANIUM
DETECTOR
“Bill's a real old-timer — he's . still lookin' f'r gold."
secondly, because its high sugar
content enables part of it to
decompose very quickly in the
soil, and, thirdly, its good fibre
content prolongs the existence of
humus.
There is a period of nitrogen
shortage during the rotting of
non-legumes in the soil, because
the organisms responsible draw
on the soil-supply for their
needs, and if sulphate of
ammonia is not added succeed-
ing crops should not be sown
so quickly after “green-manur-
ing” with non-legumes.
Nut-grass
“John”: That pestiferous
sedge called nut-grass (it isn’t a
true grass at all) is being helped
by land-clearing mechanism.
When newly-cleared land in
N.Q. was found to be infested
research showed that the ’dozer
had passed over a nut-grass
patch between contracts, and the
“nuts” had found ready harbor
in the newly-cleared ground.
Impervious to hormones and
scornful of conventional weed-
poisons, nut-grass can only be
controlled by prevention. Search
any machinery coming to the
farm for contract work. Fence
securely against straying stock
(their cloven hooves carry
“nuts”), and when a patch is
discovered fence it (even if only
a very small patch) and leave it
strictly alone.
Nut-grass thrives on cultiva-
tion, spreads fast when dis-
turbed and tears the life out of
the soil. Some farmers recom-
mend grazing in fenced paddocks
by pigs or geese, but here again
the danger of propagation after
the stock has been removed is
high.
A fortune awaits him who dis-
covers a poison that will really
eliminate it.
Age of Citrus Trees
“Hortus”: According to ex-
perts, the average age of citrus
ranges from 25 to 35 years. In
Mediterranean countries, the
home of these trees, the age
varies from 50 to over 200 years.
At Northmead (N.S.W.) some
of the Parramatta variety, grown
from seedling stock and planted
round about 1858, are still going
strong.
This season yield of North-
mead trees was estimated at an
average of six to eight bushels a
tree —a few went to 15 bushels.
A lemon-tree at Spencer (N. S.
Wales) has reached its 115th year,
but the yield is small.
Growers generally agree that
with efficient care and manage-
ment, suitable climatic and soil
conditions, citrus-trees should
bear profitable crops for at least
25 years.
Honey in the Wood
“S.”: If Long Jack Brogan, a
bee-baron of the N.S.W. nor’-
west, has his way a good half
of airline passengers and ship-
board tours will be sustaining
themselves on honeycomb en
route.
Brogan runs over 1000
colonies, and for the best part
of his life has been tinning-off
sixties from a 5000 gal. tank. The
marketing debacle of ’49, when
apiarists all over Australia had
to hold thousands of tins and
the only way to get a tin off the
stack was to give it away, caused
him to give thought to section
honey.
Section honey, whereby bees
are encouraged to fill lib.
squares of honeycomb, isn’t
new, but Brogan’s idea is. He
has patented an entirely new
shape of section fashioned to fit
into the ordinary full-depth
Langstroth frame and using the
one full-depth sheet of founda-
tion as a mid-rib. This has done
away with the old turnout of
slats and separators and wooden
fences.
Bee-men will find their bees
will work these Brogan sections
with as much enthusiasm as
they would ordinarily fill a
super of foundation. In cross-
country transport the boxes of
sections, whether filled or
empty, will travel as safely as
does ordinary honeycomb.
Brogan finds that airline pas-
sengers and other travellers are
happy to pay from up to ss. for
each pound section. It is claimed
that honey allays the various
forms of travel-sickness. Noth-
ing is more toothsome, healthful
and energising as comb-honey.
Brogan intends to keep control
of production and market-price
by withholding use of his patent
from other than honey-men
who hold his licence.
Lucerne
“Mr.”; In Victoria lucerne
does best when sown on its own.
Under normal conditions a sow-
ing rate of 61b. to 81b. an acre
of seed is enough. For a
good strike and strong early
growth a warm moist soil is
needed. In cool, wet districts
THE WEATHER.
By Inigo Jones.
So far as can be forecast, I do not see portents of any
deterioration of the favorable seasonal conditions till next
winter. Then a rather dry period may come, but it is likely
to be a short one, as no really troublesome conditions are
likely till 1954-55. When the time comes I hope to supply
reports that will assess its intensity and duration so that
landmen may prepare for it.
The irregular fulfilment of the early rains in September
was due first to the weakening of the sunspot support and
then to the lack of data, which made it impossible to decide
the real cyclical position.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
I ETC.
f
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
sd
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
r DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
*2# fa
"Phenovis” Worm Remedy
\
■
y.
tA
&*
/>//'
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
f
FHE.BX.BO
AIDING AUSTRALIA’S ADVANCE
No. 1 of a series
'£
WMffJT
1
on
w
s?
the
«»y
L thousand!
■
h
More than 520,000 commercial vehicles form the backbone of the vast
transport system constantly serving Australia. This battery of giant ‘Hamilton’ presses
at the Australian Ford Company, Geelong, is pressing and piercing Ford V.B truck chassis
just one of the operations necessary in the production of the thousands of Ford trucks
f i v f f
mm
mm
mm
H- M
m
4 f
<ii '-:
Bs&sf
: -
:- S
kyl 't f
m.
IJ;
i:-: :;
■Rear
Hi
Mssm «
i v n*
-lV ;. /. v K'lJyiJ'/'
# j|,
which are constantly rolling out
into service to “keep things mov-
ing” in Australian transport.
. . . and this is one of the three Fetter
diesels, totalling 1590 b.h.p.,
which BOEAUST installed to
“keep things moving” at Ford.
These dependable engines, each
direct-coupled to BRUSH alternators,
give a total output of 1243 KVA.
BRITISH OIL ENGINES
(A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence Street, Sydney: • 368 Collins Street, Melbourne: • Distributors in all States
sd
gBUSi
(NATIONAL
fs
afflHElfc
Part of the Associated British Oil Engines Group now producing the largest number of industrial
diesel engines in the world.
sow in the spring, but in warmer,
lower-rainfall areas wait until
autumn.
Sow the seed about i~in. deep,
and if there is any trouble in
establishing a stand, even
though soil and other conditions
are favorable, the poor results
will probably be due to an
absence of those rhizobial
organisms required for the full
development of lucerne. That’s
where inoculation of the seed is
advisable. Advice on this can
be had from the Biologist,
Burnley Gardens, Melbourne
(Vic.).
Hilling Up
“James M.”: On poorly-
drained clay-soil watering by
spraying is at best unsatisfactory,
and at worst harmful. It is far
better to hill your plants high
and run the water in the drain
between the rows. See that the
water is well below the level of
the plants, and unless the rows
are very wide apart the water
will percolate from row to row
deep enough to encourage the
plants to root deeply.
This method of watering does
not wash away any fertiliser or
insect-killer that may have been
applied, and promotes growth
without any undue packing of
the soil as is the case when water
is sprayed from overhead.
Control of Lawns
“Wearie Willie”; A new
chemical substance, called
maleic hydrazide, has been
found in U.S.A. to have
properties which temporarily
check the growth/ of plants,
rather than stimulate or
poison them like hormone com-
pounds.
This new chemical can pre-
vent the sprouting of onions and
potatoes in storage, and keep the
growth of lawns and hedges
short.
Hints for the Farm
“Billjim”; Risks of rickets
will be minimised if hoggets are
educated to eat good hay freely.
Dosing with calciferol will speed
recovery, but, as the complaint
arises from soil and pasture
deficiencies, corrective measures
should begin there.
“M.”; Place seeds of euca-
lypts in hot water and allow to
soak for three or four hours be-
fore sowing in a light, sandy
soil. When seedlings are an
inch high prick out each plant
into its own container, preferably
a bottomless tin, as the eucalypt
develops a taproot early. PliSt
m autumn, and during its first
summer keep it well watered,
using a heavy mulch to conserve
moisture.
“Myrr”: As the weather
warms up, site the apiary no
further than 150 to 200 yards
from water It saves the bees a
lot of
on hot, windy days enables them
to carry sufficient water to the
hive to help regulate its tempera-
ture. If Permanent water is too
far away, place water in the
shade in open containers and
float bits of wood or cork on it
to give the bees a foothold.
“Howie Wing”: When kikuyu
“roots down & 12ft. to 14ft.,
wrecks foundations of buildings'
chokes creeks and overthrows'
fences” (B. 20/8/’52) just super,
it well, stock to capacity and
buy a new house on the pro-
ceeds.
“Old G.”: Lucerne-trees make
excellent windbreaks for the
fowl-yard, and provide good
green-feed. The trees will stand
dry conditions as well as wet.
“P.L.T.”: If you suspect lack
of lime makes the soil sour, test
it. Make a 5 p.c. solution of
Dotassium sslicvlsts or a satn-
fa,T solute of potassium
thiocyanate in alcohol , Take a
shovplfl]l of parth frnm hprp
7i l ot f rth tro ® here
and there m the Paddock, mix
them together and spread out to
dry - Ptd a teaspoonful of the
dried soil in a bottle, add the
same °f the chemical, shake up
and let it settle. If the liquid is
red the soil is sour, if brown the
sod 1S n eutral, if yellow it has
P^ erdy of lime.
“Sundowner”; Housing of
geese is beneficial during the
breeding season. An open front
shed with skillion roof
Bft. x sft. x 4ft. will do for eight
birds. Make sure there is a
ventilation-space at the top of
the back wall, and a 6in. board
fastened along the front at
ground-level to keep the litter
from being scattered outside,
“Big Billv” • To fatten rvoultrv
it is& qualiiy' of food S
the quantity which must be
stepped up in the last 14 days.
Fattening rations comprise the
carbohydrates such as maize,
oats or barley, plus milk.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Army Uniforms
I’ve just watched about 80 members of
the Women’s Army Corps march into a
picture-theatre. They were all very
snappily turned out in dark-green
tailored costumes, berets, leather gloves,
shoulder-bags, smart shoes and stockings,
and, doubtless, equally good other cloth-
ing underneath.
With other gear (khaki uniforms, etc.)
I reckon £5O a head would be a very
moderate estimate of the value of cloth-
ing issued to each girl. - In other words,
those 80 girls represented at least £4OOO
in clothes alone. Small wonder that our
“defence” vote will be nearly £220
million this year.
Can we afford such lavish dressing for
girls who, useful as they may be in war-
time, will mainly be engaged in clerical
and similar duties? And the same remarks
apply largely to the men’s issue. For an
overseas force some sort of uniform is
necessary, but surely something much
less elaborate would meet the case.
The Boers in South Africa gave the
British Army a lot to think about. They
had no sort of uniform at all, but they
did have rifles and knew how to use them.
At Gallipoli, too, the dress consisted of
an old felt hat, a pair of shorts and very
often nothing else. I seem to recall that
the Turks complained of our “dress”
when prisoners were taken. And in
Malaya our men were literally “bogged
down” with gear, compared with the Japs.
All this uniform and equipment busi-
ness is being vastly overdone, and it’s a
nice point whether we are getting five-
bob’s-worth of “defence” for every £1
spent. — Ceg (Vic.).
Salesmen
Now that times are getting tougher the
“Positions • Vacant” columns are once
more liberally spattered with ads for
commission-salesmen. Some of them are
fair enough, but a lot are baited hook?: •
An unsuspecting victim answers an ad.
offering a job with “Poss. Inc. £l5OO
£3000,” and, finding that the position
would be his if he had a car, mortgages
everything he owns in order to get the
job.
The first week everything in the garden
is lovely ; the sales-manager takes him
out and knocks over a couple of sitting
clients “just to show you how easy it is,
old boy,” and generously allows the com-
mission to go to the recruit. Mr. Sales-
man then goes home and tells his wife
he’s made thirty quid this week and she
goes out and plops the child-endowment
down on a washing-machine, and both of
them sit down to dream of a life of ease.
Next week it is’ also fine. He doesn’t
have any luck with strangers, but his two
best friends find a heed for what he is
selling and he is thirty quid to the good
again. Next week and the week after are
empty of sales, but what does it matter
—he had two good weeks. Then he has
one good week and one bad, and gbes
on like that for weeks. The sales-manager
ceases to speak to him except to answer
questions, but he doesn’t worry—the good
weeks will pull him up., But they- don’t,
and he suddenly realises he’s been spend-,
ing a tenner a week to make less.thahflS.
For a few weeks he works himself thin
trying to increase his sales, but bank-
ruptcy looks as close as ever. Now he
loses his nerve, dodges his wife’s eye, only
goes into the office when he thinks the
boss won’t be about, and spends most
of his days either in the pub or the
pictures, waiting for his car to be seized
by the hire-purchase people. When it is
he says goodbye to “Poss. Inc, £l5OO-
- and goes off, shiny of pants and
down at heel, to look for a fresh job.—
Door-knocker (S.A.).
Public Accounts Committee
Over a year ago the Commonwealth
Government promised to re-establish the
Public Accounts Committee. There is
no sign of it yet, although the need has
never been greater for vigilance against
extravagance. We must have someone to
police Government spending. Federal
Budgets amount to approximately
£1,000,000,000, and State Budgets to
£100,000,000 and there is a notorious
amount of waste.
During a war, and long after, the
spending of vast sums of money con-
tinues, and the words “economy” and
“thrift” are rarely mentioned. There
follows the inflationary spiral, and soon
near-panic takes hold and individuals are
forced to tighten their purse-strings. It
takes the Government much longer and
it needs a body such as the Public
Accounts Committee to advise, direct and
throw a spotlight on the spending of
public funds.
It was a sorry step when the Public
Accounts Committee was dropped as a
depression economy in 1932. Consider-
ing the outstanding job it was doing, the
cost was piffling compared with what it
was saving the 5 Government by searching
examination of the costs of Federal
machinery, and by invaluable advice as
to the curtailing or cutting-down of
certain departments. ,
When public funds have never been
higher or spending more reckless, surely
it is time to have this committee on the
job again.— Fradelle (Vic;);
Farm Production
To me there seems a simple solution
to our inadequate production from the
land. Tax, wage and salary rates,
together with marketing arrangements,
should be adjusted to ensure that, for
equal personal exertion, the urban worker
gels fewer of the necessities and amenities
of life than his rural counterpart.
At present the reverse is the case, and
“Ees it da Sydney Harbor, pliz ?”
as long as that position obtains farm-
production will remain inadequate, and
no amount of exhortation or supplication
will make any difference. Every poli-
tician and economist worth his salt
knows that the foregoing is the remedy
for the malady, but all are afraid even
to mention it because of its unpopularity
with the majority of the electors. —
H H S. (N.S.W.).
Land Settlement
The cost of settling the Wandoan (Q.)
blocks is very steep. There is a
better method. Years ago thousands of
acres of freehold land were subdivided
by the owners themselves in the N.S.W.
whealbelt and sold on terms that benefited
.both .parties.
Couldn’t a similar scheme be worked
out'for 1 leasehold land? Take a property
of 30,000 acres, leasehold —with 15 years
to go—east of the Divide on the central
railway in Queensland. Subdivide it into
blocks of, say, 2000 acres, let on shares
for the growing of grain-sorghum or
wheat for three years, with the option
of purchase by the sharefarmer at the
end of that time. The Government would
guarantee no rise in rent for the 15 years,
with a guarantee of perpetual lease at a
certain rental at the end of that time.
Such a scheme could be worked out.
It would do away with the cost and heart-
burning of resumptions, and could result
in the settlement of large 'areas by the
best type of farmers.
All the flat land east of Emerald (Qv)
on the central railway would be inore suit-
able for mixed farming than it is for
grazing alone. —J. R. L. (Q.). • •
Labor - . ~
The I. abor party’s main trouble today
is that it has no definite policy. Its
original objects have been achieved, and
in some directions exceeded. The workers
have high wages, short hours, social
benefits on a non-contributory basis and
an industrial arbitration system which
imposes obedience to awards on
employers and leaves trade-unions free
to repudiate and strike. Socialisation of
production, services and finance remains
a plank, of Labor’s platfrom, but party
politicians shy off it.
There are substantial reasons for not
voting Labor today, and none that Lean
see for supporting it at the polls. Its
campaigning practice is to attribute all
current ills to the other side and to deny
it any credit for anything.
Conscious of the mess it has made of
its long tenure of office, the N. S. Wales
party has fought recent by-elections on
purely Federal, issues and blamed the
Liberal-C.P., Government for the disas-
trous results of the State Government’s
own incompetence and maladministration.
It is a saddening commentary on the
intelligence of the great body of electors
that Labor Governments and politicians
can get away with this sort of thing.
— G. Elburg (W.A.).
Labor Plebiscites
The Queensland Labor party is making
much capital of the fact that all sitting
members who faced plebiscites won their
right to re-contest their seats. That is
supposed to represent an unbounded faith
in their representatives by the workers
and A.L.P. members who voted at the
plebiscite.
But does it? Queensland uses the
“first-past-the-post” principle in its
plebiscites, and when eight contestants
poll within 40 votes of each other one
wonders what the true result would have
been had the preferential system been
used.
To make a plebiscite fair, only party
members should be allowed to vote. In
Country- and Liberal-party plebiscites
that is the firm rule. Neither party
employs the “affiliation” vote, though it
quite easily could if it embraced progress
associations and kindred bodies. — Video
(Q-).
Crimes of Violence
A timely comment ’was passed in
Sydney by a judge hearing a murder
charge, later reduced to manslaughter.
Both the man killed and his da facto
wife had informed police the night before
the killing that they feared violence from
the man charged. Without bothering to
investigate, the police shrugged the com-
plaint off as a “domestic” quarrel and
took no action.
The N. S. Wales police record in deal-
ing with violent criminals is particularly
good, but, with the increase of crimes of
violence, it is important that the police
remember that they are protectors of the
peaceful as well as pursuers of criminals
after the event. Any request for protec-
tion should be treated seriously until
proved frivolous.
It should also be possible to punish
people who refuse to call the police when
requested to do so. That particularly
applies to some publicans who will see
an innocent man attacked rather than
call in the law and bring notoriety to
the “house.” — Dick- Turpin (N.S.W.),
t ; ’ „ f ' ■ ■;
The Freelance
“Sebak” (B. 13/ 8/ ’52) has apparently
forgotten the elements of freelance
journalism. The freelance is at liberty
to send his work to any editor for accept-
ance “on the usual conditions of the
paper.” If the editor thinks that he could
use the work at some future date the
understanding of that clause gives him
permission to hold the script. If the
writer thinks that it is being held too
long he is at liberty to ask for its return.
The mails account of the average paper
is usually fairly heavy, and it is expected
that a writer who wants information
about an MS. shall enclose a 'stamped
and self-addressed envelope with the
request. Very few editors. refuse infor-
mation if the rules of the game are fol-
lowed, A writer is also at liberty to ask
for the return of an MS. if he thinks
it is being held too long.
Freelancing is full of stumbling-
blocks. Syndication is a big one, and so
is the correspondence school which
advertises a profitable future to anyone
taking its “Sure-to-succeed” method.
Hundreds of students are entering the
game yearly; many drop out very
quickly, and their places are taken by
as many more hopefuls. That is why
the bate of pay for the freelance has not
increased with that of the laborer —the
law of supply and demand is against the
freelance— Sgt. A. (N.S.W.).
Union
Despite his .preference for the Federal
form of government, “Den” (B. 20/8 / ’52)
admits that'“after half a century it needs
overhauling.” True, and his contention
that Federalism offers greater obstacles to
totalitarianism needs more proof than he
gives. Lang’s attempt in that direction
was frustrated by his dismissal by the
N. S. Wales Governor, as representative
of the King—the “Federal form of gov-
ernment” had nothing whatever to do with
it. Neither does it hinder in any way a
“Socialistic programme,” as has lately
been shown by the slick formation of the
(Socialistic) Gas Corporation in Victoria.
The time has indeed come for our
Federal Constitution to be amended. The
sovereign power should be centred in the
Commonwealth Government, limited by
the power of recall, and provincial affairs
relegated to local district directorates
with executive powers only, and no legis-
lative functions. The present expensive
and superfluous State Parliaments are
overdue for extinction. —N. C. (Vic.).
Markets
A hundred years ago, when Sydney was
a growing township, the present site of the
city markets might have been ideal.
Vegetable-growers of those days brought
their produce to town to sell where they
knew there was a market for it.
Sydney has grown considerably since
those days, and now we have suburbs
like Hurstville, Parramatta, Crow’s Nest,
Bur wood, Bondi Junction and many
others with populations far greater than
that of the Sydney of a century ago. Yet
we still find growers bringing their
produce through these suburbs into a
congested city to the same market-site.
There they sell to shopkeepers, who have
to travel to the city, buy their require-
ments and then haul them back. Some
of the produce is carried 30 miles
unnecessarily.
If the Sydney metropolitan area were
divided into zones for the marketing of
produce the city’s traffic would be less
congested during the morning peak
period, and growers could save many
pounds weekly in travelling-time and
expenses.
If these zone markets are established
they should be open daily from noon till
5 p.m., Monday to Friday; and from
9 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Those
hours would ensure that the vegetables
would be 24 hours fresher than they are
at present. —J. F. G. (N.S.W.).
City-country
Darlinghurst (Sydney) school head-
master D. J. , McLean is justifiably
pleased with his success in placing city
schoolboys on farms" for working-
holidays. ■
The scheme could surely be expanded
profitably. It’s amazing how many city
people have never spent any time on a
farm —in a country depending mainly on
wool and wheat for its income.
The present uproar about the high
price of butter might be lessened con-
siderably if townspeople saw something
at first-hand of the routine on a dairy-
farm. Until they have done that, how
can they understand the labor in-
volved, from the time Dad and school-
boy son arise to get the cows in, till
Mum goes down to the shed to help witb
the milking, then returns to the house to
get breakfast while Dad and son clean
the separator and the bails, feed the
calves and pigs, and get the cans out to
the pick-up point?
If city folk could have some con-
tact with real rural life a good deal or
the existing city-country antagonism
would be overcome. Una Auld
(N.S.W.),


A
BEST SELLER
to read Every Month!
£5/15/- WORTH OF BOOKS FOR
£2/10/-
A subscription to the British Book-of-
the-Month Club will bring you, each
month, a special edition of a recent top-
seller at much below normal price.
Books for coming months include:
9 THE YEARS OF PERIL, Arthur Bryant
9 THE CONSUL AT SUNSET,
Gerald Hanley
9 THE PAPER PALACE, Robert Hading
9 THE MEANING OF TREASON,
Rebecca West
9 A BREEZE OF MORNING,
Charles Morgan
9 MY COUSIN RACHEL,
Daphne du Maurier
■X
SPECIAL
BEAUTIFUL.LiY BOUND EDITIONS
OF WINSTON CHUBCHIEE’S
• “THE GATHERING STORM”
• “THEIR FINEST HOUR”
• “THE GRAND ALLIANCE”
Available to Members Only.
at
11/6
each
There are optional choices . . . send for a complete descriptive
list of all books available.
POST THIS FORM, WITH REMITTANCE
THE BRITISH BOOK OF THE MONTH CEUB,
G.P.O. BOX 4657, SYDNEY.
Please send me a 6 months’ subscription at £2/10/
.12 months’ subscription at £5/—/
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin 9.52
Latin . ~. Still, there was a divagation to
Kasung and Mollen, in which districts he
thought there might be wild tea, some-
thing no one had then fofind; but what
he found was tea that had probably
been cultivated there by merchants on a
trade-route from China unknown years
before;
It has a very practical object—the dis-
covery of the original tea-plant (if, indeed,
it exists). .It is as important to the
breeder to start with a “pure” race of tea
as. it is for the chemist to start with pure
chemicals.
On another expedition, “in 1949, in
the savage Mishmi Hills in the north-east
corner of Assam,” he “discovered what
might be genuinely wild tea.”
Manipur is not unknown to civilisa-
tion, Near Kohima is a cemetery of 1400
British and Indian soldiers who, in 1944,
helped to “stop for ever the Japanese in-
vasion of India.” The State was a
maharajarate until 1949,. when the Central
Government of India took it over; and
in 1948, while our plant-hunter was there,
the Legislative Assembly was to meet at
Manipur, and “one half of the legislators
were still running round Challenging the
bona fides of the other half”:
All Manipur politics seemed wonderfully
dirty, but they were probably no dirtier
than any other; it was just a different kind
of dirt.
During another long trek, northwards
towards Tusom Khulen, Mr. Kingdon-
Ward’s party was directed to nightquarters
in a village Christian church by the
Tangkhul headman, who was no
Christian, and managed by this means to
send the church’s padre hopping-mad.
The padre ordered the travellers and
their baggage out of the “draughty,
thatched church” into the cold rain ; the
travellers’ man, Mangalay, argued, and
translated Mr. Kingdon-Ward’s expostula-
tions ; the church elders were sent for:
“Tell him,” I said to Mangalay, “he is
not a good Christian, because... .he wants
to turn us out into the darkness and rain—
an old man and a weak, helpless woman.
lf he went to our country, to London,
which is no mean city, and if he had
nowhere to go for the night, the Christian
people would give him shelter inside a
church, and gladly.”
This convinced the elders ; indeed, says
Mr. K.-W., “I said it with such assurance
that I almost believed it myself.” How-
ever, Mrs. Kingdon-Ward expiated this
whopper on their way back to Manipur
by bandaging and saving the life of a
young Kufci who had found an aerial-
bomb, a relic of the recent controversy,
and had dropped it into a river and leaned
over a bridge 15ft, above the water to
see what happened.
Two R.A.F. Books
The H. E. Bates "Flyins Officer ‘X”’
stories from The Greatest” People in the
World and How Sleep the Brave have
been gathered into one small volume.
The stories of Flying Officer “X" (Cape)
The war performed Something of a
miracle tor this former cold-blooded per-
fectionist; the life that neither art nor
i,- i-
StS 5 I LwL h n ?
stones he them ixi oetcrice ot
his country. If their warmth sometimes
edges into it must be re-
membered that these stories were written
feeling consthutes^mosivttoe ta'H. E.
V/Mini, ir-oi
Dates., . The Young Man from Kal-
Sf° r,1 2 s “™ s more a£ m Eng and
man Australia, ,
farm 6 twojustifie
goorlie. -The house was in the old style;
a simple white wooden cabin to which a
few extensions had been added by succes-
sive generations. On the low hills east of
the farm there were a few eucalyptus-trees;
his mother grew pink and mauve asters
under the house windows in summer; and
in spring the wattle was in blossom every-
where, like lemon foam His father....
had kept sheep on the same two thousand
acres.... for thirty years....
but the story of the bomber-crew’s ordeal
in a rubber dinghy in the English Channel,
in “How Sleep the Brave,” at no point
gives this feeling of being a little out of
drawing; a really superb story.
In Walter Clapham’s novel. Night Be
My Witness (Cape), however, distance
lends disenchantment to the view of the
R.A.F. The flap differentiates it from
Hillary’s The Last Enemy in that Hillary
wrote of “the young officer with a well-
to-do background” while Clapham writes
of “n.c.o.s —the rank-and-file of the air-
crews.” Johnny Somers, after special
training in America, some of it at the
hands of someone else’s lovely young
wife, and service in North Africa and
England, comes back to his aunt’s cottage,
and his aunt saying, “You really should
start looking round for a job, you know,
John —you’ve been demobbed for over
two months now” —a strange prospect
for a young man whose only job so far
has been aiming blockbusters on Italian
towns and flying in Pathfinder squadrons,
and with memories of American moon-
light and nightclubs, of a pitiful conver-
sation with a woman in a horrible North
African brothel, and other matters more
bizarre than “Harper’s.”
One of the most unusual things in the
book is a portrait of a pilot who couldn’t
take it, and was sent back from Africa in
disgrace; he is set against Howard, the
seasoned veteran, who flies a Wellington
with bomb-doors removed to carry 4000-
pound blockbusters “protruding from the
bays, naked to wind, rain and flak” ; un-
perturbed by searchlights and flak he
circles the target again and again until he
can drop his bomb; and the difference
between the conduct of the crew under
his casual direction, and under the irritated
barking of the pilot who was sent home,
gives some insight into what is needed
from a bomber-captain besides ability
to fly.
The last woman in the book is the
widow of a fellow-airman ; the hero was
best-man at their war-time wedding; he
goes to see her, and she turns on him in
bitter rage that he should be alive and
her. husband dead, and then gives herself
to him, in pity for them both—it is a
profound, and moving novel, and by no
means “just another war-book.”
Reviewed Briefly
Poems : Francois Villon, translated by
Norman Cameron (Cape). The selections
—Mr. Cameron omits work written in
“thieves’ cant” and other work containing
untraceable references —are rendered into
17th-century English, which the trans-
lator considers approximates in its rich-
ness most nearly to 15th-century French,
lire result reads like excellent translation,
fluid, witty and lyrical. One feels that
Fal staff would have enjoyed Villon’s Paris
with its taverns and stews, its thieves’-
kitchens and its boisterous obscenities.
Yet this poetry reminds one of two much
later English writers: Pope for the wit-
writing, the epigrams and querulous but
stinging hatreds; the later Yeats for the
disillusion of a lyrist whose romantic life
has revolved about one woman who
spumed him. In Villon’s case his
Katherine seems also to have been re-
sponsible for some of the (undoubtedly
justified) punishments which he suffered
under the harsh laws of the times.
Norman Cameron has not only preserved
the exact original forms and rhymes, but
m some instances he has managed io
retain initial acrostics. Above all, how-
ever, he has presented a thoroughly enjoy-
able book.
♦ * * ♦
Lease of Life: Andrew Milbourne
(Museum Press). Milbourne enlisted for
World War II in his early ’teens ; fought
in North Africa and Italy; was severely
wounded in the Arnhem battle and,
captured by the Germans, lost the sight
of one eye and had both his forearms
amputated. Today he is married, has a
small son and works in the civil service.
His autobiography is partly a war-book,
chiefly the courageous story of a man
without hands battling for a place in
life; simply but eloquently told. At one
time, despairing of getting work in
England, Milbourne wrote to a friend in
Australia; the result was publicity in
the Australian dailies and an offer of a
job here* which led to the English news-
papers’ taking up his case, and so to his
job in England,
* * * *
Carl Linnaeus: Knut Hagberg, trans-
lated from the Swedish by Alan Blair
(Cape). The book has been “issued under
the auspices of the Anglo-Swedish
Literary Foundation” and has all the dis-
advantages of a book written to promote
international understanding, which, like
other worthy causes, leads to a stilted
style, painstaking remarks on the history
of Sweden and its relations with England,
and a sentimental and unreal portrait of
the hero. It may be read, with some
difficulty, as the life of a man—the “King
of the Flowers”; one of whose pupils in
botany, D. C. Solander, sailed round the
world with Cook—who is of sufficient
interest and importance in himself to
outweigh the shortcomings of his bio-
grapher,
• ♦ ♦ ■ *■
The Price of Revolution : D. W.
Brogan (Hamish Hamilton). A survey
of violent political changes from the
French Revolution to the present day, the
author being Professor of Political
Science at Cambridge. Professor
Brogan submits that ever since the
French Revolution or the revolt of
the American colonies we have been
“hypnotised” by, and in a sense resigned
to, violent political change; and he
presents the case for a temperate, liberal
democracy clear-sightedly, shrewdly and
wittily: meticulously examining the
weaknesses in Communist theory and
having much of topical interest to say on
scientists who turn traitor.
■*♦ ♦ ♦
Dance to the Piper: Agnes de Mille
(Hamish Hamilton). Ballet reminiscences
by a writer who is the granddaughter
of Henry George, the daughter of a man
who wrote smash-hits for Belasco, and
the niece of the celebrated Cecil B. de
Mille of Hollywood. She danced to fame
in her own ballet “Rodeo,” and did the
choreography for “Oklahoma” and
“Carousel.” Anecdotes about Pavlova,
Marie Rambert, Reinhardt, Hollywood
celebrities and Jack Dempsey, aU well
told ; and the compact, witty style reveals
a much more intelligent personality than
you meet in most books of the kind:
“At night in the little personal hours I did
the dreadful arithmetic. No husband.
No child. No achievement in work
About this time I met a young man it
seemed to me a good idea to marry.”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 192
Across.
I—Belt for a musketeer orchestra
going to the ring with a malevo-
lent expression. (9)
s—Prank source of sauce for boiled
mutton. (5)
B—Steam8 —Steam yacht pinched a heartbeat.
(7)
10 — “Cracks” various namesakes of
an alley girl. (7)
11— I. anaesthetise the soldier’s food
in such shadings. (12)
12 — He is over the Channel in 49. (2)
14— Grain sown by youth on the
scoot. (4)
15— This' renounces responsibility for
50 between a record and one
having a shot. (10)
18 — Minces mush (anagram). (10)
19— A big corporation gets this —but
‘ it isn’t fat; it’s mineral. - (4)
22 — Beef when there’s nothing to
kiss. (2)
23 — Wisecracker feature with rough
alterations at midnight. (8, 4)
26—1 gm in a constellation but a
brief swim by the jetty is crazier.
CD
27 — Geese surround no Italians. (7)
28 — Confused dirge to delve again. (5)
29 — Representatives of the Gallic
entrances. (9)
Down.
J —Conveyance secreted nothing but
a code of chivalry. (7)
2 Flower upset an explorer before
you and I get a thousand. (10)
3 Altitude of a plane? (9)
4 Indian sage. (5)
5 Columbus to utter the name of
one of the Hebrides. (8)
6 Pop in agony. (4)
7 Western criminal can be just
he(a)rd. (7)
9 —Eyes. (4)
13—Roy Rene upset a Japanese duck
and a canvas habitation is all-
powerful. (10)
16 — Putting a price on goods with
the firm bite. (7)
17 — You, a legislator, I, and a Vic-
torian bowler reveal the art of
adjudication. (8)
18— Dog of a Chinese Communist
upset and in the soup. (7)
20 — They attend to the ailments of
mongrels and gambols. (7)
21 — Fountain drink, for example,
send up the signal of a quizzee’s
failure. (3-3)
24 — Disheartened firm blushing. (5)
25 — Murphy or Bismarck? (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 191


TMs entire page Is % PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
IR.V. RGRICULTURHL REIDS
September
A monthly feature for an those Interested In Agriculture
1952
FOOD SHORTAGE THREATENS
AUSTRALIA’S SURVIVAL
Production Falls Off —Population Increases
Our national economy has reached a sorry slate. Once, we were large exporters of foodstuffs. Today, it looks as if we’ll have to buy them
back ... if we can find the money. Every politician and every newspaper can give us a variety of reasons why our Primary Production
has slipped. They can also advance quite logical theories as to how we can regain our lost Primary wealth.
Despite all this our production keeps on slipping
... so fast, in fact, that a large percentage of
our population will be starving by 1960 if we
don’t do something very quickly.
Part of the original cause of all the trouble was
the high price of wool. This tempted wheat-
growers, dairymen and other agriculturists to
try a hand at grazing.
In N.S.W. alone so many wheatmen turned to
sheep that last season’s hay production fell
to 31 5,000 . . . the lowest since the bad drought
year of 1902! Yet, the cattle and sheep popu-
lation had grown out of all proportion.
Wheat production has suffered an all-round
drop, and our vitally important dairying in-
dustry, which contributes largely to our export
income, is in a very shaky condition.
Dairying seems to be our main problem at the
moment, yet it is the only farm investment that
brings in regular returns, from cash sales of
products all the time. It actually provides three
direct sources of income . . . from sales of milk
and cream, milking cows, and cattle for meat.
It produces very profitable by-products . . .
skim milk, which can be fed to pigs, for bacon
and pork. And it is the only method of farm-
ing that maintains the fertility of the soil . . .
even increasing it, if the cows are fed bought-in
concentrates. So you can actually build up your
carrying capacity as you go along.
The big disadvantage of dairying, up to the
present, seems to have been the hard work
involved. Hand milking, although almost a
thing of the past today, built up a bad repu-
tation for the industry.
Early milking machines, covered in unneces-
sary, complicated gadgets, took hours to dis-
mantle and clean, and only changed the type
of work the farmer had to do.
Now, with the new Moffat-Virtue Milking
Machine the dairyman’s toil has been cut to a
fraction of what it used to be. This machine,
designed on lines laid down by leading authori-
ties throughout the World, is by far the most
advanced milker on the market today.
The Moffat-Virtue Machine is something
entirely new and original. It has been de-
veloped as the culmination of nearly forty
years of intense study and practical experience
with Milking Machines.
As one of the earliest pioneers of the Milking
Machine in Australia, Moffat-Virtue have had
as their objective the production of an eco-
nomical milker, simple, and easy to clean.
This machine saves you heavy outlay, because
it is simple, and functional in design, and you
buy direct from the manufacturers.
It saves you fuel and lubrication costs because
it takes much less power to operate.
It saves you half the time and effort in daily
cleaning, because of its specially designed,
work-saving features.
It saves you losses in factory returns, because
its simple and hygienic design helps keep your
milk pure and clean.
The Moffat-Virtue Milker is fitted with one
ingenious unit, which controls the whole plant,
and dispenses with all messy bearings, shaft-
ing, brackets and other fittings.
This is the Control Assembly. It incorporates
the M.V. Full-rotary Pulsator, which is driven
by a positive vee-belt from the vacuum pump.
This pulsator does not need adjustment. It
gives you that gentle, even “squeeze-release”
action, so necessary for perfect milking.
The fully-automatic Vacuum Control does
away with unreliable vacuum gauges, and
makes sure you’ve got a constant vacuum all
the time.
The Quick-action Releaser can be dismantled
for washing in five seconds. It has no obscure
corners to harbour dirt, and is made from cast-
bronze and pure spun-copper, heavily nickel-
plated to resist the action of lactic acid.
The Moffat-Virtue “Non-sag” Teat cups haye
extended lip and bulb tops to prevent injury
to the cow. The claws have been made sturdy
and hardwearing. They’ll stand the hardest
knocks.
This machine actually makes money for the
Dairyman who installs it. Work it out for your-
self. It cuts labour costs, gives the cow more
time in the pasture, and consequently increases
milk yields, and protects the milk from dust
and dirt by virtue of its hygienic design.
The following table will show you just how
much time and labour you’ll save with a
Moffat-Virtue Milker. The third column of
the table includes actual washing-up time. A
safe estimate of milking time is from 10 to 12
cows per unit per hour. If you want to cut your
milking time still further a larger plant will do
and the beat way to do it is to mechanise fully.
The initial cost may seem high, but it will pay
off in a very short time ... in bigger returns
and shorter working hours.
Full particulars, including price, of the Moffat-
Virtue Milking Machine can be had from any
one of the Distributors listed at the bottom of
this page.
Production increase . • .
BRITAIN
SHOWS
HOW
Pre-! 939 Great Britain depended largely
on overseas producers for her food sup-
plies. When the Nazi U-Boat Blockade
stopped transport, Britain was faced with
the problem of increasing her primary pro-
duction many times over.
Mechanisation gave the answer, and today
Britain is recognised as one of the most
highly mechanised primary producers in
the World . • . with one tractor to every
120 acres.
The increase in production brought about
by this intensive mechanisation means that
Britain does not need to import some
products at all. Many she does import
have been substantially cut.
MMm
■.A-.yS
W * ' * ,
mmsm*
I
Lit!
I
\,n
m
*4*
mm
/
; I
.
mm
ill
ill
•v>:vXx
. .
The Moffat-Virtue Simplified Milking Machine. This labour saver, which can do so much for
every dairyman, has been designed on compact lines to save space in the Milking Shed. It is so
simple and compact that it’s an easy matter for even a child to operate it.
NSW.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited, Mel-
bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Limited,
Hobart and Launceston. .
