

“THE HOMELAND IN PICTURE AND STORY”
Fifty-two of the illustrations and descriptions which have appeared on this page during
the past twelve months are now available. Write for your free copy to the nearest branch
of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd., and please mark your envelope:—
“MONUMENTS”
Available from any Australian Office of the House of Seppelt
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
tfjß Kit
SOU>f
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE; Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, P.O.
CRYSTAL ST.. BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST.. LONDON, 8.C.4.
The Bulletin
OLD lIMBOUR
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73—No. 3803
.Wednesday, December 31, 1952
Price 9d.
■ N.S.W., Austral^^^^nsmissionJ?y_P^^^gewspaper^
Seppelts
HISTORIED “WILTON,” A GEM OF ENGLISH DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE
FEW of the great country houses of England have a longer history than
Wilton, seat of the Herberts, Earls of Pembroke and Montgomery. This
great mansion, situated three miles from Salisbury in Wiltshire, stands upon
the site of a monastery which flourished during the days of King Alfred
(871-901), and it was there that he defeated the Danes. In the eleventh
century the wife of Edward the Confessor was educated at Wilton.
At the Dissolution of the Monasteries, however, King Henry VIII gave
Wilton to William Herbert, who later became the Ist Earl of Pembroke. The
latter pulled down the monastery and commissioned the great painter, Holbein,
to prepare designs for a great private house, which was completed in the
1550’5. Soon after, Wilton House became a centre of the arts and of learning,
and among the many men of distinction who visited the great mansion were
Sir Philip Sidney, Spenser, Massinger, Marlowe, Ben Jonson, Beaumont, Izaak
Walton, George Herbert. Greatest of all, however, was Shakespeare, who
was a close friend of the 3rd Earl of Pembroke and was a frequent visitor
to Wilton, and it was there that the first performance of “As You Like It”
was given. In 1573 Queen Elizabeth I stayed for three days at Wilton, and
the lock of her hair which she presented to her hosts is still be fen
“The Tempest’' is believed by some scholars to have been inspired by the
shipwrecking oil the Bermudas of an expedition to the New World financed
bv the 3rd Earl of Pembroke. , rebuilt
In 1647 most of the original house was destroyed by fire, but was iebu n
by the architect Inigo Jones and completed by John Webb. rtnthic
The interior is no less magnificent, with its luxurious state rooms, Goth c
hall, library, gallery and its famous Double Cube romm This superb roo .
which measures 60 feet long, 30 feet wide and 30 feet b f. h ; n an e ls in
the beauty of its proportions. Its white walls are divided into pan i
which hang ten fulHength family portraits by Van Dyck and a vast portrmt
by the same artist occupies the whole wall at one end th ® * OOI P; ' d
ceiling was painted by de Critz in 1650, and the furniture, in red velvet and
gold, was specially designed by William Kent. Elsewhere m this* great teasur
house are to be seen splendid examples of paintings by Reynolds, Rub ®“ •
Tintoretto, Claude and Rembrandt, to mention but a tew of the bcUei-known
artists represented in this collection. Here, also, may be se ‘ P
dispatch case.


Learn
Story Siting
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— -CF7’ HERE AND MAIL ——
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.252) Age
The Red Page
NEW ZEALAND POETRY
From the New Zealand Education
Department comes a Post Primary School
Bulletin, one of a series Writing in New
Zealand, entitled Contemporary Verse .
One envies New Zealand schoolchildren.
The selector of this bulletin, Joan
Stevens, tells them it is “a brief
anthology for interest and enjoyment,”
and, with its attractive format and excel-
lent presentation of first-class material:
lucky children. For the selection Joan
Stevens has borrowed considerably from
Allen Curnow’s A Book of New Zealand
Verse (Second Edition).
With interest renewed by the school
pamphlet, this reader returned to Mr.
Curnow’s collection and to another book
listed in Joan Stevens’s bibliography:
New Zealand Farm and Station Verse
collected by A. E. Woodhouse. Curnow’s
anthology remains the best text for a
newcomer to New Zealand poetry. It
reached a second edition in 1951 and
now includes the work of seven poets
unrepresented in 1945 (including William
Hart-Smith), plus additional work by
some writers already printed. These en-
largements both increase its excellences
and magnify its defects: several writers
remain poorly displayed, or represented
entirely by juvenilia. One questions the
omission of some: Gloria Rawlinson, for
instance, and Eve Langley, and the
occasional admirable little lyrics that
have come from such writers as Don
McDonald. Eileen Duggan, who has
poems both in the school pamphlet and
in the Woodhouse anthology, refused
permission for her work to be reprinted
in Curnow’s,
Australians are insufficiently aware of
the excellence of much New Zealand
poetry, as last year’s Jindyworobak
Anthology, in spite of its tantalising
patchiness, tended to remind us. To a
great extent the neighbors, sub-continent
and island, are concerned with like prob-
lems. There was the gradual, but in-
creasingly fully-realised, poetic accept-
ance of the inadequacy of old image-
patterns to express new landscapes. There
is a tendency, perhaps less freely-
admitted, to explore how and why John
X comes to be born in Auckland or
Sydney instead of in the country where
his ancestors lived for countless genera-
tions. The long journey might so easily
never have been made—never was made
by his distant relatives who remained be-
hind. Whatever impelled Mr. X’s fore-
bears: criminal penalty, adventure,
greed or stern religion; his folk have
some of the qualities of the heroic, the
stuff of legend.
Thomas Hardy, the very antithesis of
a colonial, expresses his preoccupation
with origins as:
Mine is the family face
Flesh perishes, I live on . . .
seeing the face as:
The eternal thing in man
That heeds no call to die.
But R. A. K. Mason in New Zealand
realises a less-inevitable heredity with
“times of cave of flint and bronze and
fur” and “distant dam delivered of her
load.” A chancy business when:
an arrow one shade more to right or left
some wound at any time however small:
and this poor link of life had been bereft.
Another poet, J. C. Beaglehole, in
“Lighting My Pipe,” shares a similar but
less-personalised vision. This, surely is
the “Alcheringa” of some Jindyworobak
writers seen more clearly for being un-
confused with a superficial romanticis-
ing of the aboriginal inhabitant.
On the evidence of A Book of New
Zealand Verse the outstanding New Zea-
land poet is R. A. K. Mason, but it is
not easy to measure his stature by
anthologised pieces, especially when one
can think of at least two poets who are
not selected to advantage here. There
is no doubt Mason writes some magnifi-
cent poetry. When he says;
... .then what
of these beleaguered victims this our race
betrayed alike by Fate’s gigantic plot
here in this far-pitched perilous hostile place
this solitary hard-assaulted spot
fixed at the friendless outer edge of space
one catches an echo of Chris Brennan’s
thunder. He uses wit to point the horror
of appalling statement, and he is never
slick. Slickness is a fault sometimes
noticeable in A. R. D. Fairburn’s work,
a pity in a writer who can think fully.
He tends to rely on false romanticism
for poetic effect;
Tonight I have taken all that I was
And strangled him that pale lily-white
lad . , .
Charles Brasch is a careful writer who
makes intelligent use of landscape for
many of his most telling philosophical
effects: the long-limbed mountain
Dark on the waves, sunk in a stone com-
posure.” William Hart-Smith'is given a
rather back-handed welcome to the fold
with two short pieces, “Holding Pad-
dock” and “Seaweed,” from Christopher
Columbus.
Perhaps the best poem in the section
of Additional Poems in the second edi-
tion is Keith Sinclair’s “Witch ” He
addresses the Witch, who, like the New
Zealander, is now “exiled from your
honored soil and sea.” He tells how she
has become “the nexus of my blood” in
vigorous verse.reminiscent of Roy Camp-
bell at his best.
Comparison of our own “country”
tradition with that emerging from New
Zealand Farm and Station Verse makes
obvious another variation in trends. The
book is arranged in approximate chrono-
logical order, with its earliest verses
reminiscent of much in Australian writ-
ing. There are pleasant songs of‘ pas-
toral life such as William Golder’s “Song
of the Plough” published in 1852. John
Barr’s “When to Otago First I Came” is
an expression of humorous resignation
to new conditions: after various priva-
tions and nostalgias “I plucked up my
heart. And tackled to the wark.” How-
ever, with the exception of David Mc-
Kee Wright, who early left New
land, the islands had no true bush-
balladists, no unique and genuine primi-
tive verse diction. The greater part ,of
19th-century New Zealand verse is no
better and no worse than Australian of
the period, and, with the subtraction of a
few Australian names (Kendall, Harpur),
the mass in both countries would be
practically indistinguishable. However,
New Zealand’s minor country poetry,
lacking the ballad tradition, is fortunate
in escaping the awful consequences of
the ballad in decline. There is plenty of
jingly metre, but one is spared the
horrible sensation of decay.
New Zealand Farm and Station Verse
is, as a whole, formless, but in its incon-
sequence is a sort of countrified charm.
Verses by James Baxter, Arnold Wall
and Eileen Duggan look across pages at
the unsophisticated writings of pro-
vincial rhymesters. It has copious
illustrations, again a mixed bag, but not
unsuitecl to its style of presentation.
NANCY KEESING.
Pearls, Assorted
Colin Simpson’s Come Away, Pearler
(Angus and Robertson) is a synthesis of
several different types of novel; pearl-
buying skullduggery ashore ; underwater-
battles between divers at sea ; the tropical
love of a European for a Balinese ; an
amorous triangle comprising an English
pearl-buyer, a lovely redhead daughter
of a doctor, and her fiance, a wounded,
drug-taking, race-conscious, perverse
British Army officer from the far-east;
Huxleian conversations over the teacups
in tropical pubs; a wild cyclone at sea;
the debasement of a white man before
a colored girl in an opium-den ; and a
little religion in the manner made popular
by Messrs. Waugh and Graham Greene,
when the debased officer seeks the con-
solation and discipline of a north-Aus-
tralian mission.
The literary-buyer, assessing this neck-
lace, can be heard to murmur, “Well,
they’re all good saleable pearls.” But
they are not all of the same quality.
They are of the first water in the water,
where Mr. Simpson’s first-hand observa-
tion of diving makes first-class reading,
and his invention gives us an enthralling
story of a vengeful diver who tangled his
amateur-diver in his lines over an under-
water precipice; and when he is describ-
ing the north-coast institutions of which
he seems to have made a personal in-
spection, pearling-luggers, Chinese opium-
dens, gambling-houses, pubs from the best
to the worst, old and young pearlers of
various races, and a pearl-skinner at
work, we are with him all the way.
Then again, the opening of the book,
with the young pearl-buyer agreeing to
gamble at a Chinese gaming-house with
the owner of a magnificent pearl, to
decide whether he should get the pearl
at the owner’s price or his own price, is
a first-class bit of narrative ; and so is
the young pearl-buyer’s seduction of or
by the Balinese girl; indeed, his various
experiences with this young lady, origin-
ally-invented and ornamented, are of the
first order of blush-pearls, as we literary
pearl-buyers assess this mode.
It is with the incursion of the beautiful
daughter of the Brisbane surgeon and her
psychopathic fiance into these happy
happenings that the book seems to lose
its rugged innocence. From treating the
entrancing Balinese, Clover, as no better
than she ought to be, both Mr. Simpson
and his hero fall to their knees as soon
as Leda Haslingden appears ; she is pure,
she is holy, she is flawless—-that is her
one flaw; we know there is no such
pearl; and we can believe as little in
Geoffrey Thorne, a black pearl that has
to be further blackened with ink to gain
the necessary evil lustre.
Often enough, a writer’s first and only
impression can be most realisable; in
this book, the northern scenes and people
over which the author’s eye—Mr. Simpson
being a Sydney journalist—clicked like a
camera seem more true and real than the
more civilised people, his lifelong
familiars, to whom he has obviously
devoted a great deal of. thought.
Alone at Sea
Temptress* in Temptress Returns, by
Edward Allcard (Putnam), is a 34ft.
yawl; Allcard is her skipper ; and what,
in the -book, she returns from is a single-
handed run across the Atlantic from New
York to Plymouth.
Without the interesting marine sights
revealed to those rafters of the Kon-Tiki
expedition—Allcard sails his boat day
and night, and is concerned with the
ocean’s denizens in a purely digestive
capacity—one might expect that a record
of each day’s run would, through repeti-
tion, dull. But Allcard describes every
change of wind and weather, and one
realises, from his armchair, how impor-
tant to the small-boat sailer a change of
wind can be. It can bring him up from
a sleep snatched after 18 hours of steer-
ing, to trim sails, and, perhaps, unlash
the tiller and continue steering. It can,
by veering un-co-operatively to dead
ahead, cause its bucker very nearly to
starve; or it can bring rainclouds and
leave him hanging on from noon to noon
with a useless sextant.
So Allcard gives his weather the import-
ance it deserves —and does it very well;
taking care to relieve the picture of the
discomfort of whistling wind and spray
with one of the comfort of a lovely
Portuguese stowaway who shows herself
when he is too far from the Azores to
turn back.
In all the interesting welter of wind
and wave there sometimes intrudes, when
Skipper Allcard has time to be in philo-
sophic mood, an irritating patronage
towards those who elect to stay on land,
or who, if they do cross the Atlantic,
pick R.M.S. Queen Mary instead of a
34ft. yawl; forgetting that those poor
earthbound mortals (“bent forward over
desk, machine, television and other
fetters of civilisation”) had made his
auxiliary-engine (which saved his bacon
several times) and his radio (without
the time-signals from which he could not
have navigated). Still, a stirring, salty
tale, of excellent seamanship and iron
fortitude.
Toscanini
Toscanini has become the symbol for
a whole school of thought about music
which removed the emphasis from the
virtuoso-interpreter, giving his magical
touch to the printed page, and placed it
on the music itself; and in Toscanini by
Howard Taubman, music editor of the
“New York Times” (Odhams), this
theme controls the biography, though, as
Taubman points out, only a tremendous
personality like Toscanini’s can achieve
such a degree of effacement before a
musical score, just as only a screaming,
stamping, raging, watch-throwing auto-
crat at rehearsals would have the demo-
cratic nerve to defy Mussolini and snub
Hitler—Toscanini’s good health in old-
age is attributed by doctors to his ability,
beyond the ordinary man’s, to blow off
steam in working-hours.
Born in 1867 to a poor tailor of Parma
and a mother of whom all his life he
complained that she never loved him,
Toscanini showed early promise at piano-
essons, and at nine was admitted a
student at the Royal School of Music
Parma. At 18 he graduated with full
marks for ’cello, pianoforte and compost
tion, and almost immediately set out for
Brazil as ’cellist and assistant chorus-
master in a touring opera-company. In
Rio de Janeiro the cast performed badly •
the Press attacked the conductor- the
conductor wrote a letter to the papers
attacking his singers. The assistant-
conductor took his place at the next per-
formance, but, as the replaced conductor
was a Brazilian, the new man was howled
down by the home-town enthusiasts. The
assistant-conductor was then replaced by
the chorus-master, who in turn was
howled down.
One of the singers shouted through the
back-stage hysteria that young Toscanini
could save them —he knew the whole
opeia ( Aida ) by heart. Toscanini
wasted no time waiting for silence; “the
orchestra played as though its life de-
pended on It, and perhaps it did” ; and
at 19 years of age, conducting without
score, Toscanini achieved his first
triumph; and during the rest of the
season, by demand of both singers and
public, he conducted 18 more operas.
On his return Italy remained calm, and
when through the praise of the tenor of
the Brazilian company Toscanini was
able to make his Italian debut in 1886
conducting Catalan! s new opera,
“Edmea” at the Teatro Carignano, Milan',
only a few keen ears discerned the com-
ing master. He went back to his ’cello,
and hearing that Verdi’s “Otello” was
to have its premiere, he secured the post
of second-’cellisc at La Scala, Milan:
At one practice session Verdi came to
the edge of the orchestra pit and inquired
who the second-’celhst was. Toscanini
was shocked to hear Verdi requesting him
to play more loudly. Toscanini had the
score before him. and it was clear that the
orchestra was playing much too loudly
when the composer’s o n marks and the
internal evidence of the musical phrase
seemed to require a softer tone. He began
to point out that he was following the
score. Verdi smiled sadly and said it was
true, but everyone ::: lbs ’cello section was
playing louder and he had better go along
with it.
Toscanini is said to have modelled his
life on Verdi’s calm nobility; and in this
first meeting he found both his god and
his credo:
Toscanini... .never ceased to be in-
tolerant in such matters. He learned in
time that Verdi’s attitude had grown out
of a long and futile struggle to get his
works done as he imagined them and not
as others chose to “interpret” them and
that he ended by accepting the recurring ■
transformation of his ideas as inevitable.
But Toscanini could not condone this
resignation, even if it was bitter resignation.
Recalling in later life the mess the bass
violist made of the first performance of
Falstaff," Toscanini, then over eighty,
pounded the table angrily, and his eyes
blazed. "I would have yelled,” he yelled.
“i would not have let it happen.” He
sighed. “Poor Verdi,” he murmured, and
then he pounded the table again, shouting:
“I have too much strength.”
From here on to his first big peak at
La it is a story of growing suc-
cesses, of opera-houses reorganised all
over Italy; of bad musicians sacked and
better ones taken on; of Toscanini’s
developing hatred of encores; and of his
growing assurance with impresarios ; and
of how, rather than give a concert with-
out sufficient rehearsal, he went to bed
on the night, and left the impresario to
give the audience its money back.
He went to La Scala in 1898 ; there he
introduced Wagner. In 1902, incensed at
the demand for encores, he flung his
baton at the audience and went home
half-way through a performance, not re-
turning until 1906. In 1907 he provoked
another storm, with the La Scala premiere
of Debussy’s “Pelleas et Melisande,” turn-
ing to the howling crowd to shout, “Si,
si, per me, bella musical” His firm and
vigorous, his inexorable beat wore down
the audience; they paused for breath,
“listened in spite of themselves,” and the
performance ended in triumph.
In 1908 he went to the New York
Metropolitan, where American players
went on strike against his merciless rages
until they succumbed to the musician who
could hear one muted violin in a full
orchestra; then in 1915 after some dis-
pute with the director, Gatti-Casazzar,
in which it seems that the management
considered the box-office while Toscanini
considered art, he went back to Italy,
conducting several band-concerts in the
front lines.
At the end of World War I, he helped
reopen La Scala, using all his interest
and advice to keep it out of the hands
of the one rich patron, and to put it
under a board of management. The city
of Milan presented the theatre ; citizens
contributed millions of lire, asking, anc
receiving, no privileges in return ; box-
holders surrendered their proprietary
{“Red Page ” continued on page 35)


;.v -.tiKs&&&?
♦
;•
m
mm
* 3*
••. ■■ ss
mi „
aiiiii
11
r 1
' / S''
I v -
=||: ;k::;.:k':■ r '’ : '- 1
■ •• ..
■
■ ■
£ £&&***&% ■■' ■-.
» V"^v< v :•:, -
■ ife
iSS**®*** 1 *
■■ " '
■
,
,1&. ■
ms
IHI
ii::3MM
■
.
;
■ i •■-■
,iv -*' ■ ’ 4 :k
i
;. . a
| ■>*.,
1»
. * J
m
in
■ , ■“ -
:--•< ■ ■
'
' M
■, \
- '
.
rm- * -
../Mm
mm
A
mlh
m
L* j
wm
Mi
mm
:v>^
nan
S 3
mm
• ; m.
a? 1 ?
5&*S
•••••*
£1
>&•&**
m
msm
n
M
II
>•-•:-
c
i
v - > < : -
W%M
BSS
to glamourise your bedroom choose from our large range of
Jeldi and Gladys Grieve
Chenille bedspreads
Specially chosen for our country customers
If you’re wise about the easy-going ways of tufty
chenille, you’ll want one of these spreads on every bed
you own! Nothing could be fresher-looking in
warm weather ... or easier to keep that way. Spreads
here come in white, beige, mushroom, rose, blue,
green, gold, burgundy, pastel pink, blue-green, gold and
pastel shades.
D. —Jeldi, design number SA, a spread tailored in deep textured
candlewick chenille. Three feet £5/10/-, double £5/13/-.
E. Jeldi 99, embossed baby chenille. Three feet £9/18/9. double
£lO/1/6.
m
-mm
iSZ*.
//SP 7 -
wsw
m
m
m
I
mm
m i
®3S
gg 88
ip
as
as - ; -
11
A.—No. 663 box tailored bolster style, by Gladys Grieve, in a
waffle designed box floral top. Three feet £l4/12/6, double
£l4/19/6,
B.— Gladys Grieve candlewick No. 857. It s ours exclusively in an
opulent design to suit any decor. Three feet £lO/16/9, double
£lO/19/6.
Q -Another Gladys Grieve exclusive to us. No. 833, its candle-
wick pile is sofTandflufeTlWleet £l 1/10/6, double £ll/13/6.
rRUTH IN ADVERTISING
Horderns
A
nihonv
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
CHENILLE BEDSPREADS THIRD FLOOR. PHONE M 2401. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


Modern Change v. Tradition
JAPANESE VIRTUE
By STEPHEN KELEN
THE Japanese have their own com-
plicated honor code, which has been
in force since times immemorial.
They call it giri (obligation), and it
is grouped in ko-on (Imperial benevo-
lence), chu (loyalty), oya-no-on (parental
obligations) and ko (filial piety).
In many ways this set-up of obligations
is similar to the one rigidly followed else-
where in the Victorian era, but is so much
more accentuated that it would not bear
further comparison.
Giri —in pre-Occupation days—made
debtors out of the Japanese from the day
of their birth. It was the heaviest burden
members of any society ever had to
carry, and, naturally enough, it developed
a gu'ilt-complex that was always near to
the borderline of emotional disaster,
erupting in banzai charges and insane
cruelties not only towards enemies but
also to themselves.
We ourselves feel that the world and
society in general owe us something if
we fulfil our duties, pay our taxes, but
the Japanese, save for the Emperor, were
always under the impression that they
would never be able to pay-off their
traditional debts.
Ko-on (Imperial benevolence) and chu
(loyalty to the Tenno, the living god)
ranked foremost in their grades of obli-
gations. It had been a thought deeply
rooted in the national consciousness of
Japan in pre-Occupation days, and was
more than a thought for the general
masses in its absoluteness of spiritual
influence upon the people in every aspect
of their daily lives.
The Japanese were firmly convinced
that it was due to the Tenno (the living
god), who reigned over them, that they
could get along safely and happily. They
even thanked the Emperor for being born,
and considered that all gratitude should
be offered to the Imperial Throne.
They believed from the bottom of their
hearts that economic and spiritual bene-
fits enjoyed by the subjects had not
resulted from their labor but from the
existence of the more forceful, more
comprehensive power of the Tenno, thus
enabling them to strive for the better-
ment of their lot and national economy.
Imperial benevolence was a fatalistic
blessing bestowed upon the Japanese
simultaneous with their births.
Therefore, the Japanese reasoned, a
subject naturally had to return the
Imperial favor in every way. It stood to
reason that in the event of war one would
be determined to “die a glorious death
on the battlefield.” People had long
regarded this as a supreme honor; the
only means, by completely squaring one’s
debt in dying for the living god, of ful-
filling the ethics of chu-gi (loyalty).
The Tenno was compared with other
gods, especially the God of the Christian
world. Japanese children were asked;
“Who is greater; Christ or the Emperor?”
They were rewarded or punished, accord-
ing to the answer given.
After the war ended, and Hirohito in
an “astounding broadcast” renounced his
divinity, a great many Japanese (though
it was far from being a unanimous
national movement) threw away this
“supreme national morality.” Especially
those in constant touch with the Occupa-
tion began to “change their mind.”
A-san, a journalist on the English
“Mainichi,” in Tokyo, when I asked him
about chu, said: “People have come to
learn the fact that they had been com-
pletely cheated by the old, abominable
reactionaries, the militarists and bureau-
crats, who made the most of the
Emperor, a good-natured family man
and a benevolent ruler.”
So “god” Hirohito became a man,
accessible, approachable, and the people
started to wonder why they should suffer,
and pay in the extreme chu to an “earthly
being.” Schoolchildren were no longer
forced to compare Tenno with Christ,
and when they did so in the family circle
their ruler often came second-best.
A spiritual revolution gradually gained
ground, especially in urban areas, but in
many parts of the country the Tenno
remained what he had been —the absolute
ruler in all spiritual and materialistic
matters. The strange part about this
was that thousands who discarded him
as a “materialistic lord” still accepted the
idea that he remained absolute in all
things spiritual.
One indication of the strong-rooted,
feudalistic adoration which farmers, and
miners, too, still feel towards their ruler
was the fact that delivery quotas of rice,
and coal output, showed a remarkable
increase after Hirohito’s visit to rural
districts and coalmines.
Oya-no-on (parental obligations) and
ko (filial piety) were but a reflection of
ko-on, the greater thing. On the smaller
scale, within the family circle, the same
rigid forms of authority had to be
observed.
Generally speaking, so strong was the
feudalistic pressure upon children that
parents were legally and traditionally per-
mitted to use despotic measures in all
family matters. Children were looked
upon as incompetent persons. There was
no such thing as “reaching full age”;
not, at any rate, in our sense of the term.
In this state of complete subjugation
children were prevented from selecting
occupations or wives, or even determining
the location of their houses. The parents’
assertions were accepted absolute, just
as an Imperial edict.
On the other hand, parents never
regarded their children as their own, but
were deeply convinced that their off-
spring were the treasure of the country,
that the best of them had to be given in
charge of the Emperor, who could “dis-
pose” of them as he wished.
In the “chain of obligations” (which
still exists to a very great extent, especially
in the rural districts) it has been the duty
of the eldest son to feed and look after
his parents when they grow old or
incapable of maintaining themselves. To
ensure this, it has been a tradition that
the eldest son, no matter what his per-
sonal ambitions, succeeds in his father’s
occupation, and also inherits most of the
old man’s spiritual and materialistic assets.
I asked A-san, the journalist, just how
strong now is the sway of traditional
inheritance over the sons of families.
“In the rural district,” he answered,
“young people still think it their foremost
obligation to work the properties handed
to them by their fathers, and I don’t think
this will ever change. In the cities, how-
ever, the younger generation do not
necessarily consider it their duty to suc-
ceed in their father’s occupation, but they
still try to please their parents by making
a success of their lives. And even here
if the parent is a medical practitioner
or owns a shop or factory it is considered
the duty of the eldest son, or, at least,
one of the brothers, to follow the ‘tradi-
tional occupation.’ ”
As a final measure of just how obliga-
tions affect the Japanese, I interviewed
the eight of them who worked with me
in 8.C.0.N.’s Tokyo office for more than
a year. According to the findings of
what amounted to a poll of their views
there had been a complete collapse in
the world of Japanese obligations. But
I made a further survey in an isolated
village, and here the answers of the
peasants gave the very opposite impres-
sion. However, in an industrial suburb,
where people seldom got in touch with
the Occupation forces, the result was very
much the same as in the 8.C.0.N. office
—most likely due to labor and, perhaps,
Communistic influences.
Also, in middle-class suburbs, among
artisans and white-collar workers, I found
that the trend leans very strongly to-
wards the old ways. When I interviewed
some of the women they asked my per-
mission to speak to their husbands first,
and gave their answers only after a long,
and often involved, conversation. In most
cases these women’s opinion was that
of a “complete traditionalist.”
S.C.A.P.’s aim was not to eradicate biit
to temper and weed-out Japanese tradi-
tions. Giri was to take on a somewhat
different meaning. When it did, how-
ever, there was no reason for rejoicing.
The people, thinking they are not obliged
by absolute duties, plunged their country
into gigantic manipulations of black-
market activities. The proverbial honesty
of the Japanese was only a myth to
Western officials whose cars were broken
open on the main streets and in broad
daylight and “cleaned-out.” The house-
girl, who was treated well by her Occi-
dental employers, repaid kindness by lift-
ing “things of little importance” from her
masters. In Osaka and Tokyo crime-
waves of unprecedented proportions en-
gulfed the honest population.
“Giri is now a personal matter,” A-san
explained. “It is a fluent thing, not stiff
and compelling as it was before. The
STORIES
“The Pointed Sticks”
by Bernard Harris
A powerful novelette about an aircraft
crew, after a forced-landing on a
South Pacific island, making their
way hack to base through Japanese
territory. To the difficulty of the
journey is added the mystery and
nameless terror: who is killing-ofi
their wounded during their nightly
bivouacs?
In next week’s “Bulletin”
housegirl may steal, youngsters break into
cars because they are in extreme poverty,
and, also, want to help their families.
Maybe these are bad, from your point of
view. But, I ask you, in all the years
you have spent in Japan, did a housegirl,
a driver, or any of the Japanese who
served you, ever steal anything from
you?”
“No,” I said, “never. As a matter of
fact, I have witnessed honesty and fine
gestures I have seen nowhere else during
all my travels. Well, I guess it’s a con-
tradiction, isn’t it?”
A-san smiled with satisfaction.
“Not altogether,” he said. “You see,
the Japanese have taken you in their
circle of giri, because they like you. Dis-
honesty, even today, is to a great extent
not a matter of necessity, but a com-
plexity of feelings. Crimes are a bad
thing ; there’s no doubt about that. But, in
our case, they also give giri a different
interpretation, they are' a step towards
the people’s emancipation. Maybe you
think it all crazy, the way I explain it to
you. But if you ponder over it long
enough, you may find a solution.”
Well, I have been thinking about giri
and its transformation in post-war Nippon
for the last three years (since I came back
from Japan) but have not found ac
answer yet.
Old Bore’s Almanack for 1953
Jan. : Seamen will tie up a coastal sh
because there is no provision for loofa
and toenail-clippers in the bathrooms,
stolen car, chased by police, will crash in
a brick wall at 65 m.p.h. and the thiev
will unaccountably fail to leap out of t
wreckage and run away. A contempora
painter will reveal that in his latest co
troversial canvas he used a dog’s insit
as a symbol for mother-love because o
the need for “caninal absolutism in art
Emperor Hirohito will compose a six-li
poem in blank verse in praise of t
loyalty of the goldfish in the palace mo
and the Tokyo “Mainichi” will descri
the author as the “Shakspeare of t
Orient.”
Feb. : N.S.W. Premier Cahill wi
announce a new Master Plan which wi
provide for a gigantic underground parkin
station for Sydney. Alarm will be raisec
in Tehran at a report that at a conferen
with an American oil executive the Persia
Premier burst out laughing. A woman w:
be found who can say which are the Ind
China rebels, the Vietnam or the Vietmin
Moscow Radio, announcing a reductio
in the price in all State shops of sooge
bag boots for the workers, will boast th
this will raise the standard of living f
higher than obtains in U.S.A.
Mar. : A D.C.M.-winner will retur
home from Korea, and the news will ge
two inches of space in an afternoon pape
between the dog-tips and the comics. Dee
anxiety will be expressed in Tehran
a rumored report that Dr. Moussadek
medical adviser has stated that the Persia
Premier’s lachrymatory ducts are n
longer functioning. Sydney will enjoy
Friday on which no organisation is runnin
a button-day. A Hollywood star wh
obtained a divorce on the grounds o
“inhuman cruelty” will be seen short]
afterwards doing the night-spots with he
ex-husband, and she will tell a gossip
writer they have decided that the divorc
shall not interfere with their friendship.
Ape. : The Secretary-General of U.TS
will disclose that Soviet Russia is the on!
Great Power which has not yet paid it
assessed contribution to U.N. for last year
“Pravda” will announce that after five year
of intensive research a panel of famou
Soviet scientists has established that th
invention of the so-called Archimedea
screw was the work of a Russian. Mi
Anthony Eden will be seen wearing
snap-brim hat in company with Mr
Churchill without a cigar, and there wii
immediately be a sharp fall on ’Change
Miners at 17 northern N.S.W. pits wil
strike in protest at their own action in
staging a sympathy strike with miners who
had staged a stay-down strike at a western
pit which had not been authorised by the
federation. The N.S.W. Premier wil
announce that Sydney’s gigantic new under
ground parking-area will have reached the
blueprint stage within two years.
May: A diplomat at U.N. will fail to
state that his country accepts a proposa
either “in principle” or “as a basis on
which to build a future structure.” A
spokesman for the Vegetable Growers
Association will predict that abnormally
high production-costs will soon force many
vegetable-growers into bankruptcy. A hot-
gospeller in the U.S. will be fined foi
understating his income by 70,000 dollars
The invasion of Argentine-ants will reach
the home of a Member of Parliament, anc
a vigorous campaign for their eradication
will be launched after immediate reference
has been made in Parliament to this
deadly threat to the country’s economy ”
A Melbourne tailor will offer free haircuts
for 12 months to every purchaser of a
suit.
June : A meeting of vegetable-growers
will carry a motion protesting that the
Federal Government’s dollar-import restric-
tions are preventing their purchasing the
latest-model high-powered American cars.
In a new series of mass treason trials in
Bulgaria seven top-ranking Communist-
party officials will be found guilty of
Titoist deviationism, and will be executed.
A well-known Sydney jockey’s home will
be robbed and the sensational story will
push a double-murder, a disastrous typhoon
and the photo of a beauty-confest winner
off the front pages of the two afternoon
papers.
July: In a Hollywood thriller an official
detective will solve a crime instead of a
crime-reporter, and the studio will be
inundated with protesting letters from
fans. The Premier of N.S.W. will
claim that the proposed gigantic new
underground parking-area of Sydney will
be unique in the world, and that it will
begin a new deal for the city’s motorists.
An Adelaide fisherman will drop his pipe
over the side of his boat and it will not
be recovered from inside the next fish he
hooks.
Aug.: A record radio jackpot will be
won and the compere’s joke about it will
sound almost hearty.. Golfers will bitterly
protest to the A.B.C. for having falsely
induced them to listen to a talk on “The
Wooden-headed Driver,” the talk turning
out to be one sponsored. by the Road
Safety Council. An American visitor taken
to see the Blowhole at Kiama (N.S.W.)
will ask what it is advertising. A cen-
tenarian will tell an interviewing reporter
that he feels lousy and he wishes some-
one would hit him over the head with a
cricket-bat. The N.S.W. Premier will tell
a Press conference that finance will not
be allowed to hold up the building of
the colossal new underground car-park.
Sept. : The columnist of a daily will
tell the new story of the intelligent dog
that was discovered blowing on the for-
bidden b'ed he had just vacated so his
master wouldn’t find the tell-tale warmth.
Concern will be felt for General Naguib’s
health following a Press conference at
which he will fail to mention “Egypt’s
legitimate national aspirations.” A
“Labor” politician will make a plea
for reintroduction of mid-week racing to
save the “industry” from a threatened
recession. An adjudicator of a children’s
elocution section of an eisteddfod will
rush out and cast himself under the wheels
of a passing semi-trailer.
Oct.: A witness will state that some-
one’s action was “on the nose,” and a
Brisbane judge will ask what this means.
A street-barrowman will be treated for
shock- after he has found that he put all
the firm big tomatoes at the back of his
stall and the small squashy ones facing
the footpath. A golf-club member will
be heard to say he enjoyed the mixed
foursome. Prominent feminists will con-
demn the world-wide tyranny of the male
dress-designer and will advise all women
to ignore Pierre Balmain’s edict that the
new “abysmal” plunge-neckline will be the
fashion.
Nov.; The Premier of N.S.W. will
announce steep increases in car-registrations
and licences, An Australian Test opening
batsman will get his 50 in 285 minutes,
and a sporting scribe will say he got them
“with shots all around the wicket.” There
will' be a rush by women for the first
“abysmal” plunge-neckline models. A
Sydney suburban train will break down in
a tunnel and in less than an hour an
official will notify passengers of the pos-
sible extent of the delay. The Road Safety
Council will launch a special appeal for
sane driving over the Xmas holidays.
Dec. : The Department Stores’ Santa
Clauses’ Union will demand sweat-money.
Johnnie Ray will be offered a fabulous
sum to howl for Premier Moussadek during
the resumed negotiations with Britain over
the Abadan dispute. The Premier of
N.S.W. will announce that it will cost
several thousand pounds to de-moss that
section of the Quay railway started 25
years ago, and that the gigantic under-
ground car-park scheme will have to be
shelved because of the wicked refusal by
the Federal Government to supply N.S.W.
with a paltry £2O million of loan-money.
A woman ticket-collector at a city railway
barrier won’t be heard to say to a pas-
senger: “Y’ gimme the wrong half, love.”
A millinery designer will cause a sensation
by creating a woman’s hat that looks like
a woman’s hat. There will be a record
number of road accidents over the holi-
days.
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 31, 1952
Vol. 73—No. 3803
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A SOBER NEW YEAR
The past year has brought shocks and disillusionment
to most of those people who had come to regard the
conditions of the last dozen years as normal. Many
men young in business or industrial experience have
had their pockets hit and their pride badly hurt. Some
are taking it with a wry smile, but are learning from
it. Others find it more convenient to blame the
Country party or the entire Menzies-Fadden Ministry.
Fortunately there is still a large proportion of our
population which is old and experienced enough to
know that we are now enduring the aftermath of a
costly war and a rather intemperate post-war spree.
They know that the only remedy is to work ourselves
out of our difficulty— not try to gamble our way out;
or to try, under the leadership of such as Dr. Evatt,
to sidetrack it. There is a stony desert at the foot of
Dr. Evatt’s economic rainbow,.
Some of the portents for 1953 seem favorable —
at least in Australian cities. Wool is selling briskly.
Some import-restrictions are coming off. The note-
issue is a record for the Christmas season.. The season
is good.
Beneath the surface it is not all so pretty to the
eye. Rising wool prices may bring another embarrass-
ing lift in the basic wage, which always jumps in
chorus with inflation. There is a recession in European
countries, of which the effect in buying-power has not
been felt here. The completion of a stage in Nato
defences indicates that there will be little reduction in
defence costs. Rises in wages and other factors assure
that some will be higher. The attitude of President-
elect Eisenhower makes it clear that he does not share
the popular idea that it is safe to look on the danger
of war as passing. If the Communists in Indo-China
had broken the French lines and overrun the Hanoi
rice area there would have been danger of world war.
If the Communists in Korea were to face absolute
disaster Russia would scarcely desert them.
In Australia it cannot be said that public opinion,
which is the determining factor in progress and pros-
perity, has shown an intelligent grasp of realities or of
the indications of what the future holds. Certainly large
numbers have shown that they have short memories
and have already forgotten what “Labor” rule was
like. There is a general tendency to believe anybody
who promises something shiny and meretricious.
When Dr. Evatt talks about the need to reduce
taxation nobody seems to realise that he is at the
same time apparently willing to hand out shekels like
sand to Governments like the N.S.W. Cahill Govern-
ment for political bribery and the liquidation of the
bankruptcy of their transport systems. When Mr.
Cahill talks about what the Federal Government could
do in raising tens of millions for “much-needed”
schools, medical benefits and hospitals and other
devices which “Labor” Governments use not in
prudence and economy, but in wanton extravagance
as the instruments of unblushing political bribery and
for the purpose of vote-buying, few seem to notice
other aspects of his case.
One is that when asked to accept a return of his
income-taxing rights he has shown the coyness of a
young ingenue who has been asked to marry into a
harem. The situation calls for some reflection from
two points of view: If Mr. Cahill is definitely offeied
the right to impose his own taxation, nobody needs to
guess about what he will do, having regard to his ruth-
lessness in the matter of fare-rises on his transport
systems. And if he and some of his colleague “Labor”
Governments had had the right to borrow in the last
few years the Commonwealth would be miserably
bankrupt. ,
At present Messrs. Cahill and colleagues are
probably themselves thanking heaven for the Loan
Council they so regularly abuse ; if they had to do
their own borrowing on the security of, say, their
transport “facilities” and unfinished works and on their
records, only a bent sixpence or so would be likely
to ring on the bottom of their begging-bucket unless
they made a compulsory levy on capital —which they
are not above doing. . .
Theodore, in Queensland, father of repudiation
and once the financial idol of “Labor,” seriously
thought about it. And, anyway, Cahill’s compulsory
acquisitions of land on a basis which would make a
respectable burglar blush if caught at it, and the
tying-up of thousands of properties under the visionary
County of Cumberland scheme, are fully in line with
a policy of capital-steal.
Cahill and his minions are robbing citizens, small
home-owners as well as large property-owners, of
millions of pounds yearly by their resumptions and
“freezings,” They are undermining the will to save and
WHAT EVERY YOUNG MAN SHOULD KNOW
to conserve property, to keep the frugal men and
women off the pension. Under their rule the senti-
ment “Let’s spend it before the Government gets it”
has become very generally popular.
It is a sentiment which can be and is only enter-
tained seriously on the road to ruin, and voiced in
politics only where everything is for the class-war
advocate, the agitator and the destroyer of established
things, and nothing for the prudent, the frugal and the
forward-looking.
If one were to pray for anything to happen in
1953 it would be for the average Australian, and
particularly the citizen of New South Wales, to see
where his fate is heading and to wake up to the
measures he needs to take to protect himself.
Bradfield, Costs and Taxes
, ~ . XTCI .,,
For the past 20 years or so the blue-übbon N.S.W.
Liberal seat of Bradfield (part of old North
Sydney) has been held by a Liberal Independent.
The late W. M. Hughes maintained to the
last the privilege of behaving as such when he
washed. He was anti-Sociahst, while deploring in
his heart that the generation-old sore over his 1916-17
split with “Labor” on war-time conscription .endured
to prevent his return to the regimented party in 1
he was most at home. He never really forgave the
Liberals for preferring as their leader someone w to,
politics being what it is, could work amicably wi <
the Country party. It was as an Independent, lea mg
other independents, that he wrecked the Bruce-Page
Government in 1929, and in those days his name or
the ancestors of the present coalition was Janus.
Advancing age may have softened these asperities
in the enfant terrible of our politics, but his poten-
tiahties as a thorn m the Liberal-party s skin did
nothing to diminish his popularity as Bradhelc s lepi e-
sentative. For Bradfield is the heart of t e or
Shore, and the political climate of the Norm o ore i
one of lofty discontent. It is perpetually aware ol e
limitations of any party, also of the futility m { M
ment of Independents as such. As Bradneld s sa e-o -
life member in the House of Representatives, r.
Hughes wrote reminiscently in recent years, oo mg
back upon his fight with the first Labor paity toi a
standing in N.S.W. politics:
Although one hears from time to time lomi
fn'a S *Pa r u^ment ,> eom^ , osed n
as they think At without regard to the consequences.
These views he at a critical time forswore when he
bucked successfully, the Liberal party in North
Sydney-—North Shore’s blue-ribbon electorate before
Bradfield was refashioned out of it—and it is doubtful
whether Bradfield ever seriously required him to learn
them afresh. The North Shore supplied the ringleaders
of the All for Australia movement against the old
National party—originally Mr. Hughes’s own child but
then the target of his animosity—and the Nationalists
reincarnation as the United Australia party gave the
North .Shore the satisfied feeling that political inde-
pendence had not been asserted in vain. The same
evidence of superiority to party harness is visible in
records of the State seat of Mosman and the Federal
seat of Warringah. Gordon, the home of Mr. Hardie,
originally sent the late Tom Bavin into the N.S.W.
Assembly as a rebel “Progressive.”
To talk, therefore, about the Liberal majority in
Bradfield as having declined from 23,000 to 6000 is
idle without some computation of how that majority
was composed. During the previous three elections,
when “Labor” did put up a candidate, the vote he
received remained static at about 9000. On this
occasion Mr. Hardie received those and the bulk cf
the independent vote, some further 8000. Most of
this had previously gone to the independence distin-
guished in Mr. Hughes, but an Independent standing
against him could rely on some 3000 votes even when
a “Labor” candidate was present also.
What would Mr. Hardie have taken to Parliament
if he had been elected? A protest against company
tax and sales tax and pay-roll tax as adding to the cost
of goods—implying that excise and income tax must
be vastly increased if modern social services are to be
maintained ; for defence expenditure, he said, he would
not reduce. He would also have demanded that the
Commonwealth should continue levying income tax
for the States, exacerbating the States’ clamor for
public-works programmes which could never be
financed. In other words, save on defence, he declared
his ally, if not his leader, to be Dr. Evatt.
In the upshot an Independent elected in these days
might in due and favorable course discover that what he
really has taken to Canberra is a ticket either for the
first island-governorship available —the ambition made
immortal by Sancho Panza —or for chairmanship of a
Socialist-reincarnated rationing commission, or for
eventual admission into a Liberal Ministry. Any of
these demands might fall to him if he is obstreperous
enough. If an Independent in politics is not a nuisance
he is a nonentity.
What Mr, Turner should take to Canberra is a
lively reminder to Cabinet that the fight against infla-
tion is either misunderstood in the electorate or not
taken seriously enough. If action here is necessarily
stalled until the Arbitration Court has finished its pro-
tracted processes, then the Government ought
to say so in plain language and keep on saying so.
If the Arbitration Court cannot in the opinion of
Parliament make the decision, or be expected to make
it, then some constitutional amendment, or effectual
action by all Governments in unison, must be sought.
The other exhortation Mr. Turner should be
expected to carry to Canberra is for an end to delay
in transferring back to the States responsibility for
levying their own income taxation. For the Common-
wealth Government to have to comply with demands
for reduced taxation, while it is raising nearly £2OO
million a year to be spent by State Governments thus
persuaded to make a political good thing out of
bankruptcy, is to debauch all public administration.
Mr. Turner won Bradfield, against great odds,
because he reiterated his denunciations in the N.S.W.
Parliament of the financial recklessness of which this
is a powerful element. Let him now carry that
campaign into the national Parliament for constructive
purpose.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Stalin and Eisenhower
The changes which have begun to take
place in the world situation accelerate
as the inauguration of President Eisen-
hower approaches. One of the features
of the Russian attitude in the years of
the Truman Administration, and before
that in the Roosevelt Administration, lay
in the ability of Moscow to dupe Presi-
dents of the United States devoid of
foreign experience. It would be a
different world, and particularly a dif-
ferent Asia, if Stalin had not succeeded
in leading President Roosevelt at Yalta
into an agreement which was so fantastic
as to be almost unbelievable.
Since then Russia has treated its agree-
ments, U.N.O. and its rivals in world
politics alike, with contempt. The Attlee
Government, with its ex-Communists and
its neo-Leftists, its talkers and its boasters,
it never regarded seriously. Its attitude
to British Labor is of that of an ex-
perienced tradesman in Socialism to a
raw apprentice. Mr. Truman and U.N.O.
have been ignored whenever some action
has seemed called for by Moscow. And
it has felt that Mr. Truman and Mr.
Churchill could never really come
together any more than Mr. Truman’s
Government and the Canadian Govern-
ment. Communism stole China under
American noses. It planned the invasion
of Korea and Indo-China with cheeky
disregard for the outbursts of the
American Press.
Stalin’s new attitude is a pointer to the
change which is taking place. He is now
dealing in Washington with a man who
knows at first hand, one who saw the
drunken rabble of the Russian van when
it took oyer most of Germany, one whose
troops witnessed the atrocities of the Rus-
sian hordes and who himself has been
right up to the current frontal Communist
lines of offence in Europe and in Korea
and who has no illusions.
President Eisenhower knows his
Europe. He knows his Britain, and
actually has a home there, the gift of the
nation. He has worked amicably in war
and peace with the British. Mr. Churchill
he describes as his “old friend,” whom
he will be glad to see in Washington. To
him, in fact, he owed his promotion to
command of the war-time European
forces ; for if the British Prime Minister
had vehemently opposed it, as well he
might in the light of the thinness of
General Eisenhower’s previous experience
of war and administration, it would have
been impossible. The relationship be-
tween the British leaders and the new
leader in the United States is not only
on a friendly but on an intimate family
basis. And Stalin has been quick to
realise it.
The celerity with which he has found
a way of making it clear that he is ready
to meet the new President indicates that if
there is one thing he does not want it is
a perfect accord between Britain and the
United States apart from Russia. At the
same time, the concert of two such minds
as those of the new President and Mr-.
Churchill is likely to put a completely
new complexion on the world military
situation.
Menzies's Message
Mr. Menzies, home from the Common-
wealth Economic Conference, said that
he had riot come back with cut-and-dried
proposals, for the good reason that
internal plans were Australia’s own busi-
ness. But he added that “unless we are
prepared to play our part in world pros-
perity we will let down our friends and
damage ourselves.”
In view of our dependence on export
markets for our existence, this is par-
ticularly true regarding the damage we
can suffer by remaining out of step with
the world.
It is not enough that “our own
financial and economic policies have
been both appropriate and sound.” They
must have the support of Australians,
particularly at this juncture, or else we
shall have people controlling Parliament
whose plans are neither sound nor eco-
nomic. The Government has a long way
to go in persuading the electors that what
it is doing is “sound,” though every sen-
sible authority agrees that it is. Up till
the present it has carried out its plans
against steady and growing resistance,
mostly political, but still sufficient to
endanger its life when it next goes to the
polls.
Before we can “earn and save more
capital,” instead of “wasting capital
which is scarce,” there must be a new face
on public opinion. At present, under
the impact mainly of State “Labor”
policies of confiscation and freezing and
of high wages easily won, the average man
and woman believes that money i£ made
to spend as quickly as possible.
The incentive to invest so as to expand
the primary industries “to give us more
exports, save dollar expenditure by other
Commonwealth countries and help to
build up those international reserves
which will help convertibility of the
pound and encourage the trade of the
world,” is rapidly ceasing to exist.
Who yvants to get into or expand a
primary industry in which labor has to be
employed at a basic wage of nearly £l2
a week minimum to produce something
which is usually not the property of the
grower but of some socialised board, and
which is sold on markets which State
Governments seek to depress in the
interests of city voters?
Mr. Menzies says that “increased pro-
duction will tend to reduce costs and to
stabilise prices and money-values.” It is,
in fact, the only real means of reducing
costs and increasing living standards, at
the same time leaving much-needed mar-
gins for savings and capital. But our
basic-wage system and our taxation
machinery need to be overhauled in order
to get that increased production. And
State Government controls over produc-
tion and transport are an ever-present
obstacle to normal incentives.
Municipal Pork-barrels
During the fortnight before Christmas
the Sydney Press spared space from the
Woolcott Forbes case and the legal pro-
ceedings which followed the revelations
of the Liquor Commission to' disclose at
some length the LoCal Government De-
partment’s report on the affairs of the
Leichhardt Municipal Council. Another
official inquiry was simultaneously con-
cluded into the administration of the
Baulkam Hills Shire Council, with report
to follow in due course.
Within the past 12 months the local
Press in yet another suburban area —
unassisted by the metropolitan dailies —
exposed the practice of the council con-
cerned in buying motor-cars on private
account for officials and other privileged
people who thus avoided payment of sales
tax.
Thus within 12 months raids on what
Americans call the pork-barrel have been
disclosed in at least three local-govern-
ment councils within the Sydney area.
Not long ago Transport Minister Sheahan,
in the Cahill Ministry, told the world in
indignant tones about the rampancy of
“foreign orders” in his own depart-
mental workshops ; but if he stopped the
rot he has never said so, and if “Labor”
politics in Leichhardt Council is a fair
representation of “Labor” politicians’
state of mind on the question it should
be a safe bet that on the subject of Mr.
Jjheahan’s complaint the Government has
done nothing and will not be allowed to
do anything by the unions which supply
the privileged class of our modern age.
Leichhardt Council was discovered in
“serious irregularities,” according to Mr.
Cahill’s Assistant Minister for Local Gov-
ernment in publishing the report of the
inquiry. The mayor of Leichhardt’s pub-
lished excuse for authorising, without
reference to the council, the use of coun-
cil plant and workmen on the building of
a two-storeyed house for his wife in
Eastwood was that the council’s policy
was “to do private work whenever pos-
sible for all ratepayers who need it.”
This rather misfired when it was shown
that, bar five other aldermen also named
as having been thus obliged by the
council, no other ratepayers had gained
admittance to this privileged circle ex-
cept the Balmain bowling club. The
mayor resigned, maintaining that he had
done nothing wrong, and that his opinion
about that was as good as the local-
government investigator’s.
The council staff also had a good time.
Payments of some £l6OO in gratuities to
sundry members who resigned between
1949 and 1952 were, declared the investi-
gator, illegal, and should be disallowed.
Besides this, the council, in what even a
Cahill Minister called “very liberal con-
ditions of employment,” allowed its staff
extra-award annual and long-service
leave and other conditions which in
effect reduced the working week to one
of 28i hours (40, of course, paid for and
at the previous rate for 44). The Minister
remarked that there were “some other
matters in respect of which the law has
not been fully observed.”
It would be absurd to suppose that
Leichhardt is the only local-government
district where ratepayers are paying
through the nose for this sort of abuse of
authority, or that (as Minister Renshaw
said) the legality of such breaches of the
law by aldermen can be tested by the
method of resignation and standing again
for election. There are municipal areas
where standing for re-election in such
cases would notoriously be a mere form.
It may be said that ratepayers get the
sort of local-government that they
deserve. But the decline, financial and
otherwise, in standards of administra-
tion demands sharper reforms than rate r
payers are able to apply. Sydney City
Council itself underwent a special cure
some 20 years ago, a precedent worth
resumed study today.
"O" Stands for "Oasis"
For more than a generation it has been
accepted that Broken Hill is in many
ways a law unto itself. This applies in*
particular to its airy disregard of the
strict letter of the liquor- and gaming-
laws. The common report of the return-
ing visitor to the Hill goes something like
this: “You can get a drink up there any
time you like. Just go into the pub any
old hour and they’ll serve you. Quite
open, you know. No backdoor business
about it. Same with s.-p. betting and
two-up. Why, the big game has been
going on in the same place for years and
the police don’t touch it. Very well-
conducted, of course, same as the hotels.
And, mind you, I don’t think you’d find
as many drunks there as you would in a
Sydney suburb. A very orderly town.”
If Broken Hill is an orderly city be-
cause of its virtual disregard of the early-
closing laws, then it seemed just before
Christmas as though it was about to be
given grounds for becoming a disorderly
one ; over the wire to Sydney came news
that the local police-chief had intimated
that he intended to stand on the letter of
the law and put a stop to out-of-hours
trading. Then things began to move. The
local man was told to hold everything;
the police commissioner said he had no
intention of interfering with Broken Hill
customs ; Premier Cahill said he had no
intention of interfering with the Police
Department’s methods.
Broken Hill beer then entered the
political field. Opposition-leader Treatt
accused Cahill of bowing to the
dictates of the Barrier Industrial
Council, and Cahill said that Treatt’s
leadership of the Liberal party was
in jeopardy, so he had to find some-
thing to complain about, and that, any-
way, Broken Hill was a most law-abiding
town with a very good criminal record ;
and, furthermore, this sort of thing had
been going on back in the time of the
Stevens-Bruxner Government and the
Liberals hadn’t done anything to stop it
then.
From a strictly legal viewpoint there
is no justification for Broken Hill being
allowed to flout the laws of the State ; but
the Premier’s comment, tallying as it
does with the general opinion of visitors
to the Barrier, recalls an old maxim that
a law which cannot be enforced is a bad
law. Successive Governments of both
political parties have apparently felt that
early closing of liquor bars is unenforce-
able in Broken Hill, so they have made no
effort to enforce it. Reliable evidence
suggests that no dire consequences have
followed this after-hours trading; eith
because of it or in spite of it the city
relatively free of serious crime.
There is no reason why Broken Hi
should be treated as an entirely separa
province in this regard. If one town is
be allowed to make its own rules othe
should be able to claim the same priv
lege.
But perhaps the whole approach
wrong. If Broken Hill has proved tha
liberal hotel hours don’t mean illibera
drinking,, why not give the whole State
chance to try the same recipe? Let M
Treatt and his Liberals take their courag
in both hands at the coming election anc
pledge themselves to introduce sane
liquor laws than the ones which at presen
play into the hands of sly-grog mercham
and racketeers.
N.S.W. to Repudiate Again 7
Specimens of N.S.W. “Labor’s” officia
appeal, through displayed advertisement
in the Press, for subscriptions to th
recent 16th Security Loan;
Australia’s railways are the arteries
which carry the lifeblood of trade and
commerce. . .To keep pace with Australia’s
rapid development.. . .long-range plans by
the N.S.AV. Government to modernise and
expand the State’s railways will involve
vast capital expenditure... .
Money invested in the 16th Security Goan
will help to provide the funds needed for
this programme of expansion.
There was more space given to hard-up
railways in these advertisements (issuec
almost daily for a fortnight) than to any
thing else. Here was another, over Com
missioner Winsor’s signature, to a citizen
taxpayer: -
Aon own the railways. You are one of
the shareholders... .Give me your ideas....
Use the railways as often as you can....to
deliver the goods you manufacture. If you
do that you, as shareholder, will reap the
benefit in lower fares and freight charges.
The railways belong to you.
The loan had no sooner been sub-
scribed, and the lists closed early, than
the secretary of the Railways Union de-
nounced in the Press what he called “in-
timidation” and “a reign of terror” within
the N.S.W. railway department, meaning
that discipline was being enforced. “A
workshop foreman is said to have threat-
ened workers with dismissal.” This, he
said, could lead to serious trouble, ane
then he thus described the State railways:
It is “Labor's” industry, or rather it
could be if the bondholders did not stand
in the way....
Sooner or later we will take control....
There speaks an agent of a “Labor”
Government which, in 12 years of office,
has driven State transport into bank-
ruptcy, has been demanding unlimited
bank-credit for further reckless spending,
and is now preparing for general
elections when it will seek a vote of public
confidence in its proposals.
In recent caucus and union debates on
the financial plight of the railways, tram-
ways a'hd bus services the expression of
“Labor” opinion has veered nearer to
advocacy of repudiation of debt than it
has since the disastrous days of Lang.
The quoted statement from the secretary
of the A.R.U. now brings this develop-
ment out into the open.
"Labor's" Schisms
The Liberal-party organisation is not
smart at capitalising its electoral advan-
tages.
Right on top of Dr. Evatt’s open-
ing of the Senate campaign—before
anybody even knows when the Senate
election will be —circumstances combined
to trample underfoot most of his doleful
prognostications of decline and depres-
sion, all his gloomy pictures of rapidly
increasing unemployment and accumulat-
ing despair. His voice was drowned in
the roar of the crowds and the scramble
of buying. Never was there such a
Christmas (in Sydney trade, at any rate),
and if the future promises anything it is
a wool-cheque of well over £300,000,000
and a booming revenue which should
enable the Government to think about
tax-reduction before the Senators go to
the poll.
In “Labor” circles, apart from the fact
that the party policy of gloom is a fraud,
there is much disturbance. The prospects
which face the Triennial Conference of
the Federal A.L.P. to be held in Adelaide
this month are enough to frighten any-
body. The party is divided into several
(Continued on page 7)
Speed
Faster, faster, lorries, tear up the roads,
throw dust at the tree-tops, squash on the
bitumen
the unhurrying stumpy-tail.
Throw dust at the old man drooling of
how
he took two years to Bourke in the Jane
Eliza
in ’eighty.two when he was a dirty-necked
lad,
cabin-boy on his first voyage out of
Morgan.
Faster, faster, lorries, wear out tyres and
time,
prove the world is growing smaller like
a withering apple.
£ ‘The old fool, two years was good enough
for him,
but these are modern times. No lying
for months
in a Darling mud-puddle for us. The old
galoot.”
Faster, faster, lorries, motor-car bodies
and beer
must be carried faster and faster in a fast-
starving world.
“The old galah, ’eighty-two indeed; I can’t
remember
where we were a week ago or even yester-
day.”
Faster, faster . . . and the old man on the
veranda
slobbers a little as he pulls at his ancient
pipe.
You young fools, you’ll all be dead soon
enough,
atom-bombs, war, or starvation, what does
it matter,
good riddance, I say , . .
But in ’eighty-two in the Jane Eliza . . .”
As the dust settles, a fresh stumpy-tail
sets out on his sleepy and perilous
migration
across the black hot desert strip of bitu-
men.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


camps, but predominantly is regimented
Right and Left, with the Lefts calling the
Rightists “sectarians” and the latter
shouting “Communists! Reds!” in reply.
The Lefts are threatening a loud explo-
sion if the A.L.P. industrial-groups are
recognised. The industrial-groups, head-
ing unions which contribute generously
to political funds, have a practical answer
ready in case they are not recognised.
Moscow-sounding voices are being
heard behind the scenes, raised for the
first time for months as their owners,
who have been playing Brer Rabbit, set
out to give “Labor” policy the twist they
want it to have. The Reds are still losing
elections in most unions, but, strangely,
winning them in key bodies like the
F.E.D.F.A., where they are strategically
placed to bring about industrial disrup-
tion when they feel the time opportune.
In N. S. Wales one of Mr. Chifley’s
nearest henchmen, and a former Left-
winger, Mr. J. Chalmers (M.L.A. for
Hartley), having been ousted at a pre-
selection ballot, along with Mr. Finnan
(a Cahill Cabinet Minister), at a State pre-
selection ballot, has decided to go up as
an independent “as the first blow towards
smashing a Hitlerian dictatorship” in the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. And there is a rush
for seats on the Supreme Court Bench
in the Cahill Cabinet, no fewer than four
Ministers being named as in the running.
But the Liberal publicity organisations
doze on, waiting for the sound of the
millennium to wake them.
POLITICAL POINTS
Who gave Broken Hill the first break?
• •
Federal Cabinet, meeting in Sydney
to do a little tidying-up before Menzies’s
return, decided to lose no more time in
hopping into the Senate campaign in
answer to “Labor’s” opening blasts
detonated by the Doc. and Calwell in Bris-
bane. First shots from the Government’s
side will be fired in Perth on January
15, with Navy and Air Minister Mc-
Mahon in charge of the broadside.
• •
Up in Queensland they’re talking of a
State election on March 28, but Opposi-
tion parties have a healthy suspicion that
Gair may spring an earlier date as a New
Year surprise. There’s no likelihood of
reverting to the old custom of making the
poll a double event with the N. S. Wales
election. That is fixed for February 14,
and the powwow to decide Queensland
“Labor’s” policy and tactics for the
immediate future doesn’t commence for
a week or so after that.
• •
South Australia and West Australia
will also be having elections round about
March. In 1950 all six States went to
the polls between March and June. Vic-
toria, for reasons well-known, beat the
field this time with a December polling-
day. Tasmanian legislators are elected
for five years instead of the customary
three, so there is no election due in the
Speck until 1955, unless the Liberals get
tired of allowing Cosgrove to govern
without a majority, and that doesn’t seem
likely to happen just now.
• •
Those sad-faced individuals who
bobbed up here and there among the
crowds who flocked Sydney streets for
the biggest Christmas spending-spree on
record were Bert Evatt’s secret agents
searching for a lost depression.
• o
In the present confused state of Vic-
torian politics it may assist politically-
minded Melbournites a little if they get
their Liberal Andersons properly sorted
out. Bouquets and brickbats concern-
ing Federal achievements and shortcom-
ings should be addressed to W. H.
Anderson, Federal president; comments
in praise of or in protest against electoral
reform or on other State issues are the
concern of J. M. Anderson, president of
the Liberal-Country party of Victoria.
e ®
Calwell said that the Liberals’ Brad-
field majority was cut from 23,000 to
5000. Even altering that latter figure to
7500, his statement is about as true to
fact as to say that the anti-“ Labor” vote
was increased from 32,000 to 40,000.
Arthur went on to urge the “cowardly”
Government to resign. Whatever other
adjectives may be applied to the Menzies
Government, cowardly it definitely is not.
It has had the courage to take measures
which it well knew would be unpopular
with the electors, and to stand by its
decisions. If that is cowardice, what is
the proper epithet for cheer-chasing of
the Evatt-Calwell brand?
• •
Thirty-three aspirants for political
honors faced the selectors for the Liberal
nomination for Bradfield, ultimately won
by H. B. Turner ; another large field is
lining-up for the succession to Turner’s
Assembly seat, Gordon. It isn t likely to
hold the same attraction for Independents
that Bradfield had; some better line of
talk than criticism of the Menzies Gov-
ernment will be required.
•» •
Preselection ballots for “Labor can-
didates at the N. S. Wales election to be
held on February 14 provided a few sur-
prises, three M.L.A.’s failing to get their
guernseys. Two of them, Minister for
Labor Finnan and A. E- Greenup, had
had their seats shot from under them by
redistribution, and were trying their luck
in other electorates. Finnan’s choice was
Concord, at present held by Liberal
Adamson, but Concord’s choice wasn t
Finnan. Greenup offered himself for
Marrickville, vacant through the death of
C. C. Lazzarini; P. N. Ryan, Mayor of
Marrickville, won the ballot after a
couple of protests had been dismissed.
Third sitting-member to miss out was J.
Chalmers, M.L.A. for Hartley.
Chalmers has announced his intention
of contesting Hartley as an unendorsed
“Labor” candidate; he says he is out to
strike a blow against a “Hitlerian dic-
tatorship” in the A.L.P. executive, led by
C. W. Anderson, acting-secretary of the
party.
Finnan’s defeat raised the question
whether anything will be done to find him
a seat. One fairly loud whisper is that
George Weir will be given a judge’s wig
and that arrangements will be made for
Finnan to inherit his Dulwich Hill seat.
♦ • ®
Critics of the two-party system might
do well to cast a quick look in the direc-
tion of France, where a multi-party system
operates and where, in consequence, a
Government is merely following the
normal pattern if it collapses within a
fortnight, and is well on its way to a
record if it lasts beyond six months. M.
Pinay’s Government, the 17th since the
war, fell on Christmas Eve ; it had been
sworn in on March 8.
Proportional-representation is the main
cause of the instability of French Gov-
ernments, but the same thing could
happen here if the idea gained wide
acceptance that Independents are neces-
sarily better men than party politicians.
Even a small batch of Independents could
make and break Governments as the
whim of the moment moved them. That
would be right enough if all Independents
were wiser and more trustworthy than
party-men, and if they were entirely
immune from outside influences. There
is no reason to assume that this would
be so, in which case theirs would be a
position of power without responsibility.
• •
Tasmania crossed another big batch of
items off the control-list just before
Christmas —clothing, textiles, furniture
and furnishings, builders’ hardware,
biscuits, honey, timber, prepared poultry
foods, household equipment, boot- and
shoe-repairs and haircuts were the main
things affected.
• •
Queensland’s Premier Gair is getting
optimistic again about the prospects of a
rail-link between Dajarra (out beyond
Cloncurry) and the Northern Territory
line. He told a radio-audience that he
had stressed to the Federal Government
the difference such a line would make to
the cattle industry, particularly in time
of drought. A Federal sub-committee had
since urged the building of a line across
the Barkly Tableland, and Treasurer
Fadden had asked him for estimates on
the cost of the Dajarra link. Politically
Gair couldn’t have picked a more
auspicious time to put the hard word on
Canberra. After all, there is a Senate
election coming up, with Queensland
looked upon as the key State.
Still, South Australia hasn’t given up
hopes of seeing the gap between the Alice
Springs and Birdum railheads filled.
• •
This stuff with which Evatt and Co.
have been working an election “swing to
‘Labor’ ” doesn’t mean a thing. Here is
Victorian “Labor”-leader Cain speaking
in the recent election campaign (at
Shepparton, 1/12/’52):
I will fight the Commonwealth with
courage and strength to obtain enough
money to carry out the State’s essential
projects.
The same gentleman, having gained office
and formed a Government, made this
statement on his financial policy
(19/12/’52), after ordering all depart-
ments to prune expenditure:
I hope Victoria can co-operate effec-
tively with the Commonwealth on State
works programmes. We will be pleased
to hear what the Prime Minister desires
in the way of State co-operation and to
give his requests every consideration.
A sane and sensible statement, certainly,
but it shows up his electioneering ranting
for the sham it was.
• *
Sydney’s staff of life comes in two
kinds—plain and fancy. Plain bread has,
of course, been price-controlled for years
and years; fancy loaves have not. Just
before Christmas, following a Ministerial
edict, fixed prices were proclaimed tor
rye-bread, milk loaves, starch-reduced
bread and other loaves designated fancy.
The reason, of course, was to protect the
public against overcharging. It was jusl
a coincidence that a few days earlier there
had been a suggestion that “fancy bread
might help solve the housewives’ problem
of how to make bread delivered on
Christmas Eve last through the five-day
break till Monday.
Under “Labor” rule night-baking and
Saturday-baking have been abolished as
being undesirable in a Socialist State.
The argument seems to be that it is better
that everyone should crunch stale bread
on Sunday and Monday than that a few
bakers should work on Saturday even
if they want to.
• •
Hollway’s “rebels,” after keeping the
official L.C.P. in suspense up to the last
minute, sat in with the party on the front
Opposition benches when the Victorian
Parliament opened, thus giving it the
numbers for recognition as the official
Opposition. The group’s terms are
general support of L.C.P. policy as long
as the party doesn’t oppose redistribution
or try to introduce 10-o’clock closing.
In view of the present state of parties in
the House they are pretty safe on the
second point, at any rate.
To show they hadn’t really surrendered
to the machine the Hollway representa-
tives in the Council voted with the Gov-
ernment against an L.C.P. amendment to
a motion appointing new members to the
Public Works Committee. The Govern-
ment had nominated Mr. MacLeod (one
of the two rebels); L.C.P. leader Kennedy
intimated that his party had unanimously
chosen Mr. Ludbrook as its nominee, and
Who wrote
"Ralph Rashleigh"?
In next week’s issue M. H. ElHs
will again write on this con-
troversial and highly interesting
subject.
he proposed &n amendment to this effect.
Amendment lost 17 to 15, MacLeod and
Gartside voting with the Government,
whereupon Transport Minister Coleman
very smartly nominated Mr. Ludbrook
for the State Development Committee,
and everyone was more or less happy.
Trevor Oldham is the new leader of the
L.C.P. and Leader of the Opposition. He
has been nearly 20 years in Parliament,
was deputy-Premier and Attorney-
General under Hollway, and has also held
other portfolios. H. E. Bolte, who was
deputy-leader'of the party under Norman,
has been re-elected to that post.
• •
Redistribution on the basis of two
Assembly seats for each Federal electo-
rate —the Hollway plan —is included in
the programme of the Cain Government
outlined in the Governor’s speech at the
opening of the new Victorian Parlia-
ment ; a bill is to be introduced early
in 1953. The rest of the programme in-
cludes the customary promises of more
homes, more attention to land-settlement,
more schools and so on —provided finance
is available.
• •
Commenting on what he called the
“pressure tactics” of some members of
U.N. on the question of trustee terri-
tories, External Affairs Minister Casey
rightly deplores attempts to extend the
jurisdiction of U.N. in trusteeship and
colonial affairs. In the course of the
chinwag at the assembly early this month
one of the Australian representatives
pointed out bluntly that some of the dele-
gates levelling criticism at the so-called
colonial Powers had never known real
democracy or a free election in their own
country. Casey’s statement that Aus-
tralia will not tolerate attempts to take
the responsibility for the administration
of New Guinea out of her hands should
meet with the approval of all Australians
except those with their heads in a cloudy
dream of U.N. as a world-State.
• •
Percy Spender was close on the heels of
Casey with a broadcast from New York
applauding the fact that the “colonial
Powers,” after accepting for a long time
“without rancor” the unjustified criticism
of delegates who labelled them “oppres-
sors and exploiters,” had lately begun to
defend themselves against such unjustified
charges. The truth is that, apart from
America’s great contributions, almost all
the money and technical aid that goes to
the backward countries of the world
comes from the “colonial Powers.” Their
critics give virtually nothing ; some, in
fact, accept help from the “exploiters
and hold out their hands for more.
In regard to Australia’s trust terri-
tories Spender pointed out that since the
end of the war these have cost the Aus-
tralian Government at least £l5 million
more' than they have contributed in
revenue.
• •
Victoria receives from the Common-
wealth just over half a million in hospital
benefits as a result of a bill passed just
before Christmas legalising fees charged
by public hospitals. The bill was intro-
duced by Health Minister Barry “with
great reluctance” as it conflicted with
“Labor” policy. Victoria could have
been participating in the Commonwealth
hospital-benefits scheme on the same basis
as other States months ago but for the
fact that Cain and McDonald couldn’t
agree to let commonsense triumph over
airy-fairy doctrine.
• •
Willis, Liberal M.L.A. for Earlwood
in the N. S. Wales Assembly, has
expressed misgivings about two housing
ballots recently announced by Evatt
minor. He recalls that shortly before the
1950 State election Clive conducted three
ballots, comprising in all 725 homes. It
was found out later that not only were
the nomes not completed at the time of
the ballots, but many of them were not
even begun. Some of the lucky “winners
had to wait 12 months before they
received the key of the door. Perhaps
things have been speeded-up since 1950,
but those successful in the latest ballots
had better not make too many plans. It s
election-season again.
• •
Playford’s State expects a record grain-
harvest this year, according to an esti-
mate just issued by the S.A. Government
Statist. He forecasts a wheat yield of
18.77 bushels an acre (previous highest,
18.18 bushels in 1942-43), with a total of
27.5 million bushels ; barley, with 24.57
bushels an acre, should yield 21.5 million
bushels and oats, with 15.62 bushels an
acre, 6.25 million. The combined barley
and oat crop will thus almost equal, the
wheat yield. Good rains during the
growing-season are the main reason for
the bumper harvest.
New South Wales also finishes up with
a much fuller wheatbag than had been
expected—4o million bushels is now the
estimate. According to G. G. Nicholls, of
the Australian Wheat Board this means
a substantial export trade in flour
£250,000 a week “for many months to
come,” Flourmill employment is expand-
ing, and the mills are going on to an 80-
hours-a-week basis to cope with the
export flour.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Harbel”: The tendency of railway
travellers to talk loudly has left me
cogitating over four diverse viewpoints
on the subject “Should wives go to
work?” Scraps of conversation: (1)
Feminine voice: “Yes, she’s going to
keep working after they’re married, but
only for a while—until they save up
enough to buy a home.” Dialogue (2):
Male: “Did y’ go in with Jonesy last
night?” “No ; it’s all right for him, he
can afford to spend ten-bob a night on
beer —his missus is workin’.” (3)
Woman’s voice, wearily: “Sometimes I
think I’d love to leave my job and have
“I hope you're not one o’ them speed-hogs.”
a few months with nothing to do but
look after the home, but Jack' says we
just couldn’t live on his money alone.”
Conversation (4) masculine tones: “
I’ve seen what happens to some poor kids
when their mothers go to work—stray
dogs are better cared for. I can’t say
Vm sorry if married women are being
put off in some factories.” Reply:
“That’s the trouble—it’s the married ones
you’ve got to stick to, they’re the most
reliable. They live on A.P.C. powders
and aspirins, but they never miss a day
—they’re too money-hungry,”
“F.S.”: Footnote to a recent con-
troversy in Melbourne about artistic
compositions. Look at that table with
all those objects on it lit by the dim
light of evening coming through the
French-window. An artist would love to
paint it, and if he did and hung it in an
exhibition “experts” would come along
and say: “What a magnificent composi-
tion! What a stroke of genius to have
placed the bottle just where it balances
the white vase on the opposite side of
the table and makes a lovely contrast with
the bronze bowl of flowers in the
middle!” But the genius who created
the arrangement was Bill, who, slightly
oiled, had just served everybody with
wine and then dumped the empty bottle
on the nearest table.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Timison”: Tell “Pip Tok” (B.
10/12/ ’52) he’s behind the times. In
Brisbane we’ve had a millinery bar for
ages. A “bra-bar” has now opened, and
I've got a job at the tobacco-stall
opposite.
❖ +♦< <+
“Piper”; Danny used to visit us occa-
sionally to perform small jobs around
the house. One good year he had
account-forms printed for himself and
headed “Daniel O’Brien, Handyman.” I
came across one the other day:
To swingeing flie prove dore.
Wood—providid.
Wire —providid.
Semes —providid.
Inges—A bob from S. Jones shop.
Work—ss.
Hods —6d.
Looking at it I recalled the occasion.
For our new flyproof door we provided
the materials except for hinges which
Dan bought for us. He charged ss, for
the job. We never questioned his charges
and it was only curiosity which induced
us to inquire as to the untranslatable
“Hods.” Danny fixed my mother with
a stony stare and said: “Why, sure,
Mum, it’s han abbreviation.” “Short for
what?” asked my mother. “Why,” said
Danny, “short for hoddments, Mum.”
And he spat, an action he reserved purely
for occasions when he was confronted
with profound ignorance.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Zake”; As with “Tan-tallam” (B.
24/12 / ’52) an adamantine Army also
robbed our signal outfit of a just celebra-
tion. We knew on November 10, 1918,
that the Armistice was scheduled for the
next day, and anticipated a festive time
at the well-estaminet-ed town in which
we had just lobbed during the period of
30-miles-a-day chasing after the Boche.
But no; the ukase had gone forth. Up
again at 4 a.m. on Armistice Day for
another 30-mile hop to somewhere near
shattered Mons, with nary an unbroken
bottle for milps. That night we were
billeted in a disused brewery, with iron
rations and one lousy tot of rum, while
the world went mad. Next morning the
language was even brighter when word
came through to proceed back 30 miles
or so to some other place. Six hours
after we had left it the wassail-foundry
went sky-high—with what could only be
termed awful desecration the retreating
lardheads had planted a delayed-action
mine. It was a week eefore we saw a
bottle of bock or “point-blank,” but by
that time we’d forgotten whether we were
celebrating the Armistice, our lucky
escape or being parked at last among
northern France’s bucolic belles.
*l* ♦♦♦
“Irving”: Sraithers, our office-boy,
whom we recruited after he had been
superannuated from the public service,
has a thirst out of all proportion to his
pocket-edition physique. On the day
the Melbourne beer-strike collapsed he
had occasion to go into the conference-
room at the time the sales-manager had
the floor. He waited respectfully till the
s.-m. had finished before delivering his
message. Then he threw in his own un-
solicited contribution in the form of the
“But somebody's camped here before —they left their tent-pole."
declaration that the argument just
advanced was “the most absolute bit of
bullswool that I ever listened to,” follow-
ing that up with an exposition of how
the sales campaign should be handled.
After he had been bundled out the Big
Chief remarked, “That man’s drunk, isn’t
he ? ” The office-manager admitted, sadly,
that that was so. The Big Chief, a known
teetotaller, mused for a moment before
announcing, “Then it’s about time our
1 salesmen got drunk, too! ” At the Chief’s
direction the office-manager went to re-
summon Smithers ‘to the conference-
room, but found that he had already
departed for the pub. That was three
weeks ago, and our Mr. Smithers hasn’t
come back yet.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curate’s Egg”: Introduction of a
lingerie-parlor for bashful male shoppers
(B. 24/12/’52) reminds me of the time,
20 years ago, when a shop in a large
pastoral town staged the district’s first
mannequin display, in which trousseau-
wear was the main attraction. In aid of
charity, tickets at a price designed to keep
the roughs out were sold to ladies only ;
the models were lasses out of the district’s
social stud-book. The display-room was
packed to capacity by the all-female
audience; so also was the galvanised-
iron roof of the garage at the Royal
Hotel, with an all-male and buckshee
patronage. In silence which was a
measure in reverse of their appreciation
of the display the snoopers enjoyed the
performance up to the point at which the
roof collapsed under weight of patrons.
For some weeks sprained ankles and other
injuries proclaimed the identity of the
snoopers.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Matho”; Our local dry-cleaner be-
lieves it pays to advertise. That is why
he has had his motto printed on all his
stationery. But I don’t think he means
exactly what it means. The printed slogan
is “Expediency, Efficiency and Economy.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout” (London): Push-button
technology over here is pursuing, if it
has not quite caught up with, the Aus-
tralian language. The Tea Centre at
Piccadilly Circus, a place not merely for
the serving of tea but also for the propa-
gation of its pleasures, has a quiz-
machine to test and correct the knowledge
of its customers on the history and habits
of the beverage, e.g., “Australian bush-
men carry tea and billycan in a bag called
Cobber, Digger, Matilda, Koala?”
Tentatively pressing the button
“Matilda,” a gratifying large “Yes” lit
up the screen to testify to my accuracy.
After which I treated myself to a cup of
the best char in London, imbibing with
it the information that the word is “de-
rived from the Cantonese ch’a in contrast
to the Amoy tay.”
❖ ❖ *
“Cauboy”: This controversy anent the
way entrepreneurs treat local actors as
compared with the imported article really
gets nowhere. You could weigh the evi-
dence for this side and the other till you
were blue in the face without coming to
any indubitable conclusion. The sole
criterion is the public’s feeling, which
naturally guides the great entrepreneurs,
who are, as they would admit themselves,
buyers and sellers of theatrical goods
just as refrigerator-salesmen are buyers
and sellers of domestic goods. The public
feels a thrill at the mere name of an
overseas actor, even if it knows nothing
whatever about him, but it doesn’t thrill
to the name of an Australian actor even
if it has seen him act and likes him. It
is the same with art. In the past year
or so the Felton Bequest has bought a
wretched Rubens and a poor Claude,
which only give our own artists a wrong
idea about the works of these masters. It
also bought a Miss John, of which a
local critic said that it was worthless but
that, as the Felton only paid £593 for it,
that didn’t matter. Doesn’t it? No Aus-
tralian artists have been paid £593 by
the Bequest for their work, though dozens
of pictures better than the Miss John
have been bought by the'National Gallery
for a few fivers. Pictures, like actors, are
bought, not on the quality which may or
may not be in them, but on names: and
that is all there is about it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Craiser”: One of the leading members
of the foreign consular corps brought out
his beautiful young wife. She didn’t
know a word of English, but he impressed
on her the importance of showing hospi-
tality to any callers while he was absent
at his office. One day he came home
and found her giving the butcher sherry
and biscuits in the drawing-room. Chops
explained that he had done his best to
convince her that all he wanted was the
meat-order* but she had seemed so set
on entertaining him that he simply had
to accept.
*i* ❖
“Alma”: “The field is very widely
spread,” said the beautifully-cultured
voice of the cricket commentator. “And
I’ll run round it for you in a minute.”
*l* ❖
“W.M.H.”: Transparent-tape, now a
household necessity and even used to
patch straw-boaters (B. 12/11/’52), might
have been marketed several years sooner
had it not been for a production-problem
which didn’t exist. Originally the tape
was made to mask parts of motor-cars
while they were being spray-painted. The
sticky side was covered with cheesecloth
so that it could be easily handled, but
car-manufacturers complained that strip-
ping the protecting cloth wasted time
they wanted a tape that could be done up
in a roll and be ready for use as soon as
unrolled. To make an adhesive tha
wouldn’t stick to itself seemed an impos-
sible order, and numerous experimen s
with new forms of adhesive only con-
firmed this opinion. Then someone
thought of rolling up a strip ot trans-
parent tape to see what would happe ■
They found that the problem which haa
confounded the experts didn’t r ® a y .
exist; although the tape stuck to 18
it could be pulled apart quite ea y>
leaving the adhesive intact.
“LABOR” NEEDS MONEY
“Labor needs the assistance of the citizens of
this State 1 accordingly ask for financial
support in making Labor’s campaign not only
possible but fully effective ” —Election
advertisement signed by N. S. Wales Premier
J. J. Cahill.
They ptoughed the field and scattered
Our good coin on the ground
As though it scarcely mattered.
One or a million pound;
They took the post-war crisis
And pushed it to its peak,
Trebling all our prices
With their forty-hour week.
With courage undiminished
They started public works
That never could be finished
And lose them jobs and perks;
And when their building-frenzies
Fell with a grinding crash,
They blamed it all on Menzies
For not providing cash.
But soon the case will alter ;
They’re dodging Menzies’ axe.
They’re shaking-off his halter,
Resuming right to tax:
Then no bank-consternation.
Nor A'Ttie, no, nor Bob
Can hinder their foundation
Of any put-up job.
But first there’s this election —
They’ve seats to hold and gain.
The voters need direction —
It’s costly to campaign :
Fill up the “Labor” coffers —
Give all you can invest!
When they get back to office
They’ll take, and do, the rest.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


“F.S.”: Best story told of the current
art season concerns a young contemporary
artist who for years has been trying to
give the public the horrors. After his
show had opened an old lady came up
to him and said, “I do so like your
pictures, Mr. Dauber.” “Pleased to hear
you say so, madam,” said the artist.
“Yes,” said the old lady. “My family
all laugh at me and I may be old-
fashioned, but I do like something pretty.”
<4 +J4
“Spokeshave”: Writing to a Mel-
bourne paper in condemnation of bathing-
beauty contests a reader commented:
“Surely the beautiful tabernacles of the
next generation ■ deserve more respect.”
I don’t think the beautiful tabernacles
are much damaged thereby. At a seaside
resort a young man once asked me to
be one of the judges in a bathing-beauty
contest. His girl-friend was to be an
entrant. “You’re an artist,” he said.
“You’ll be better at judging these things
than those other fellows.” Knowing the
ability of a man’s love to endow the
“That you, honey-bunch?”
object of its affections with all the quali-
ties of a Cleopatra, just as a girl’s love
can endow the vcung man with all the
qualities of a Shakspeare, I asked him
to point his entry out among the others,
After one look at her I decided not to
be a party to his and her humiliation,
The beautiful tabernacle of the next
generation whom the judges awarded
first-prize was, as I had expected, the
one who most resembled the favorite
screen-star of the moment. The young
man’s girl didn’t get a look-in. He was
absolutely staggered.
♦jf
“Vingter”: Army papers (B.
10 / ’l2/'52)? For a time I edited a unit
rag featuring a forum in which, under
the shelter of anonymity, all ranks were
permitted to air their uninhibited opinions
on such contentious matters as whether
the non-drinkers should be allowed to
buy non-drinkable canteen items at the
reduced prices made possible by their
conscientiously-imbibing mates. After a
spirited effusion by my most consistently
contentious contributor, 1 was approached
by two officers whose fields had been
his target. They demanded that I should
divulge the real name behind the nom cie
guerre. Sensitive of my lowly staff-
sergeant rank, I requested to be paraded
before the C. 0., who, after hearing the
story,, asked me directly: “Staff, do you
consider yourself ethically bound to con-
ceal the identity of your contributor?”
I said I did, whereupon the Old Man
ruled: “You cannot importune the staff-
sergeant like that, gentlemen. The name
is to be withheld! ” The ruling delighted
me. Disclosure would have meant the
end of belligerent bulletins, and, more-
over, the Old Man could turn in a pun-
gent par.
“Murrundi”: Met him carrying a
couple of the best, and suggested it
mightn’t be too good for his rheumatism.
“Rheumatism!” he hooted. “The quack
told me to drink and go on drinking.
And,” he finished simply, “I am.”
❖ ***
“Bo”: The land of the Pharaohs aver-
ages about 10 street-vendors to the acre,
and most of them, with the Diggers, at
any rate, adapted their lingo to Australian
requirements with sufficient clarity to
make themselves understood. But the
“shocola’ ”. vendor who used to infest
our Heliopolis camp had a parrot-cry for
his wares that nevei varied: “Two for a
bob got, one for a bob got, bob got.”
He had three lines of chocolates, each
going up in size. The smallest was six-
pence and the next one a shilling, as part
of his cry proclaimed. We always took
the biggest and gave him a bob, and
though he gesticulated and apparently
cursed, he accepted the bargain in prefer-
ence to getting a boot somewhere in the
dirty tent-like raiment that enfolded him.
What the real price of the “bob got” was
we never found out.
<4 4*4
“Melbn”: The St. James, Melbourne’s
most, betitled theatre, has changed its
name again; it is now the Bourke-street
Metro. Built in 1912, it was called
Brennan’s Amphitheatre and combined a
theatre, hotel, billiard-room and shop and
the art school Max Meldrum opened
when he came back from Europe and
'started being a stormy petrel. After a
while it became the National and, in
1916, the Palace, when Benjamin Fuller
took it over. In 1924 it was rechristened
the New Palace, though the fare pro-
vided, mainly consisting of Muriel Starr
and Nellie Bramley, wasn t any different,
In 1934 it became the Apollo, and to
justify this glorious name Fuller put on
a grand-opera season with Florence
Austral in the Wagnerian roles. The
opera was an artistic success but. a
financial failure, and the theatre relapsed
back to hit-and-run drama. Six years
ago M.G.M. took it over and renamed it
the St. James.
“Now, sweetie —where to?"
“Aestur”; “F.S.” (B. 3/12/’52) has
allowed his dislike of modern art to warp
his judgment when he classes a brace-and-
bit as a work of art. Surely the essential
difference between an artist and a trades-
man is that the artist produces something
individual, a product of his combined
imagination and technique, whereas the
maker of brace-and-bits follows a selected
pattern, and makes countless thousands
exactly the same ; most likely he makes
merely a single part of the whole. There
are craftsmen who are artists, and some
of their work is worthy of being ex-
hibited as works of art; but I cannot
agree that a mass-produced tool, no
matter how well-made or how useful,
can be so described.
+♦♦ ❖ ❖
“R.L.W.”: At the height of the Allied
bombing the Germans would vie with us
prisoners in telling tall stories. Mac
listened to the guard relating the horrors
of the total destruction campaign to be
unleashed against England in the summer.
“Summer will be too late,” he said. “In
the spring, the Allies will drop on Ger-
many a gas that will annihilate the entire
nation.” The guard thought for a
moment, then shrugged his shoulders.
“So what?” he challenged. “If we Ger-
mans die —so will you prisoners.” “Not
likely,” Mac retorted. “We’ve been
inoculated against it!”
❖ ❖
“Craiser”: A woman who complained
to the Chicago council authorities that
one of its zoo parrots had cut loose on
her with a stream of vile epithets de-
manded the bird’s extermination. The
zoo officials interviewed their 250 parrots,
but the foulest remark any of them gave
vent to was “Oh, fudge!” Not surpris-
ing. In the early days of broadcasting
a radio-station announced that a particu-
larly accomplished parrot would be put
over the air one Sunday morning.
Listeners were greeted with a stream of
language which would have brought a
blush to the cheek of a bullock-driver.
The young man who owned the bird
apologised for its behavior and said he
would try again, but the second outburst
only showed that the parrot’s vocabulary
was even more extensive. There were
indignant protests, and it then turned out
that the young man had bought the bird
from a hostelry at Port Melbourne much
frequented by sailors. He swore on his
dying oath that this was the first time
the creature had revealed the hidden
depths of its knowledge of the English
language.
♦♦♦
“Pans”: Mention of the old Ixion re-
minds me of her chief steward, a well-
known character in Van-
couver and “way” ports.
He spoke Chinese and
Japanese fluently, and,
when in Japan, loved to
visit bars and cabarets off
the beaten track for sea-
men. He would sip a cup
of sake and listen to the
conversation of the
cabaret-girls who acted as
hostesses. One day, while
thus engaged, he heard two
of these little creatures dis-
cussing himself his
obesity and various
intimate details of his
person. They wondered
what he did in Japan—was
he in the bank or was he a
shipping man, or perhaps
an embassy official? Soon
Mama-san fussed in,
bowed ingratiatingly to the
customers, then turned to
the girls and briskly de-
manded who the fat
foreigner was. They con-
fessed they could not make
up their minds. “Ah!”
boasted Mama-san, “I will
soon find out,” She
waddled across to him say-
ing, “’Elio, Mister! All
all li?” Then, leaning
over, she grasped the lapel
of his coat, turned it, and
sniffed the cloth under-
neath. “Ah! He is a sea-
man,” she cried trium-
phantly. She had smelt the
mildew which clings to all
clothes hung in a cabin
wardrobe.
“Qwilliam - street”:
Alleged beauty-lovers in
Adelaide are raising one of
their periodical outcries
against quarrying in the
Mt. Lofty Ranges. It isn’t that they
fear the hills will be completely carted
away; their objection is to the “ugly
scars” made in the hillside. The battle
has been going on for 50 years or more.
Present-day crusaders claim the hills are
being disfigured in comparison with 20
years ago, but in 1930 their parents were
saying much the same about the then
condition of the landscape as compared
with 1910. Before that the cry was that
beauty disappeared when the hills were
denuded of timber. What the “beauty-
lovers” really object to is change. If
Nature had washed all the soil from the
hills, leaving the bare rock, they would
warmly approve in such terms as “rugged
grandeur,” but man-made ruggedness
doesn’t fit in with their canons of beauty.
♦♦♦ +*+
“Ennkay”: Red Page praise of
aboriginal poetry (B. 10/12/’52) recalls
William Hatfield’s use of Arunta verse
in his Desert Saga. However, one
aspect of aboriginal verse which seems
to have been more-or-less forgotten is
their efforts to express topical affairs in
pidgin English in the early days. Sarah
Musgrave recorded in The Wayback how,
on one occasion, wet weather held up the
annual distribution of blankets to the
Murrumbidgee blacks. Mr. Icely, mana-
ger at The Bland, explained the delay to
the tribesmen, who, says Mrs. Musgrave,
“were good-humored about it, and made
up a song at Mr. Icely’s expense, and
which they sang to us. The chorus ran:
Wallen tumble down,
Wheelbarrow brokit;
Mr. Icely very poor,
Baal gibbit blanket.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ a
V V V
“Ercy”; For intelligent gee-gees the
recently reported “ta!king”-horse in
America, Lady Wonder, would seem to
take the feed-bag. Asked the whereabouts
of a lost child, the nag nonchalantly
replied that it was quite safe and well
in a distant city. Conversation is con-
ducted by means of an enlarged type-
writer keyboard bearing metal plates with
letters and numbers, which pop up when
nuzzled by this intelligent mare. Answers
are given to such questions as age, home
address, weather, etc., apart from simple
arithmetic problems. Her owner claims
it makes no difference if the metal plates
are switched around, as Lady knows the
alphabet quite well. Subjected to inves-
tigations by various research bodies, in-
cluding such subtle human trickeries as
blindfolding the owner, Lady Wonder
still answers correctly. Whether the whole
show is trickery or really some sixth-sense
is debatable, but I’d like to have a natter
with this psychic quadruped; preferably
a few minutes before barrier-rise.
ANSWERS, PLEASE?
You will grab a window-seat
In your homeward-going train,
Thus ensuring that your feet will not
get trodden on;
You will grab it, I repeat,
Though just how, I can’t explain,
For in peak-hours, I admit, it’s some-
what odd. Anon,
There will enter females, two.
One will be a slashing “line,”
The other one a grim-faced thirteen-
stoner.
Why, I ask , does this ensue:
That the Fates always combine
To put next you the hefty-chassis
owner ?
You’re manoeuvred by your girl
(It’s a way they have, you know )
Into a “small” nocturnal celebration ;
And your last flag” you unfurl
(For it’s still two days to go
To pay-day and financial restora-
tion) —
Well, why is it that she’ll pass
Over good nutritious food
Like curried sausages and devilled
kidney,
And select instead —alas !
Being in expansive mood —
Chicken Maryland and Souffle a la
Sydney ?
For some hours you will have worked.
Time-oblivious, boring in,
A model of intensive concentration,
Nothing slummed and nothing shirked,
Giving the boss a rare good spin,
Deserving at the least of commenda-
tion.
Then, he’ll never be about ;
But why is it, just as you
Finish, and sit back, meditating, smok-
ing,
From his office he’ll come out
Give a look more black than blue.
Then: “Loafing again, Brown!”
he’ll be sourly croaking ?
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Stephen Kelen, who writes this week’s
entertaining Page Four article on Japanese
virtue, is the author-journalist-sports-
man-linguist who already has four books
to his name, speaks seven languages, has
been in most countries on earth, and was
nine times table-tennis champion of the
world in mixed doubles. Kelen hailed
originally from Budapest, was educated
there and at Prague University, and first
came here in 1937. That was a visit,
after which he went on a world tour.
But he was back again, for keeps, a few
days before World War II; hopped into
the A.I.F. in 1942, and soldiered for
close-on seven years, four and a half of
them overseas, in New Guinea, the
Halmaheras, British Borneo and Tapan.
At present he is in Yaralla hospital, re-
covering from an operation.
Having been the defender of Sydney’s
health against any large-scale wog in-
vasion which may have threatened it in
the past 18 years, E. Sydney Morris
(presented herewith) is handing over the
Director-Generalship of Public Health ;
leaving, at the same time, the post of
Inspector-General of Mental Hospitals,
which he’s held since 1941. Born in the
Sydney suburb of Marrickville, Morris
was D.-G. P.H. in Tasmania before re-
turning to Sydney in 1924. Then he had
a period as Director of Maternal and
Baby Welfare, in this connection winning
OUT TO GRASS
the Wynne Prize for his brochure on
Causes of Maternal Mortality and Mor-
bidity. In the 1914-18 operation a captain
with the A.A.M.C., Morris has since
tacked on to his name M.D., Ch.M.,
M 8., D.P.H. and F.R.A.C.P., as well as
executive membership of just about every
medical organisation in the State. A very
competent cabinetmaker also, he as well
still loves his gardening too much at 64
to throw in the trowel there.
Francis Robert Nelson, Victoria’s first
Crown Counsel, is now Queen’s Counsel.
Made Crown Counsel last year when the
office was created to fill the blank left
when Crown Prosecutor Winnecke became
Solicitor-General, Nelson, Q.C., was
prosecutor in most of the major criminal
trials of recent years, including the long
Kerr case. Educated at Scotch and Mel-
bourne University.
“Macnell”: A breezy, genial, quick-
stepping cove with energy enough to make
uranium envious, Warwick Seymour
Bracegirdle, commander by rank, captain
of Tobruk and Bataan in KoretPby post-
ing, has just added another Bar to his
D.S.C. and Bar. A widely-popular officer,
gunner by trade, “Braces” by nickname,
W.S. is the son of Rear-Admiral Sir
Leighton Bracegirdle, who was military
secretary to so many G.G.s, As a snotty
Braces won the Mediterranean Fleet
welterweight championship, and was
again in Med.-fighting in 1940, this time
gunnery-officer of cruiser Perth; with
Illustrious in her Malta travail; at
Matapan and in and out of Greece and
Crete. His first D.S.C. was won for a
doughty bit of work when, in a dinghy
with another officer, he towed an ammuni-
tion-lighter away from a blazing ship
loaded with similarly explosive cargo, in
Piraeus Harbor. East of Suez, he was
gunnery-jack of Shropshire, responsible
for the cruiser’s Sin. messengers finding
the right address at Cape Gloucester,
Hollandia, Leyte and Lingayen. For
this, the first Bar. His first seagoing com-
mand was destroyer-cwm-cruiser Tobruk,
which he had in Korea, before going
back there in Bataan. Launched this
month 41 years ago, at Newcastle
(N.S.W.).
Pope’s “Do good by stealth....” was
applicable in good measure to Martin
Mcllrath, passed on in Sydney at 78.
One of Sydney’s most generous philan-
thropists, he gave quietly and widely,
among his known benefactions being
£lO,OOO to the Federal Government in
1940 for war purposes, a valuable pro-
perty near Cootamundra for soldier-
settlement, and, fairly recently, £50,000 to
Sydney University for medical research.
Born in Ireland, he came to the Victorian
Mallee in 1889, and after a period farm-
ing there, joined his brother, Hugh, in
a small provisions business in Sydney,
to build it into possibly the largest chain-
store grocery business in the State. In
1940 he took his place op the board of
the ’Wales, following the resignation of
Sir Thomas Buckland. He was chairman
of the bank at the end.
New commodore of the P. and O,
fleet. Captain S. W. S. Dickson, as an
apprentice circled the watery globe four
times before, in 1914, he joined his
present line, fourth-officer. Throughout
the Kaiser’s scrap he served in hospital-
ships. His first command came in the
later war, when he took the bridge of the
He de France, and in her conveyed thou-
sands of Diggers to the Middle East.
Stratheden was his address between 1944
and 1951, changing then to Himalaya,
one of the line’s newest. He is married
to the daughter of Martin Mcllrath.
“H.D.-B.”: In Perth, Priestley’s
comedy “When We Are Married” was
the most subtle and finished production
seen for some considerable time. It was
directed by Michael Langham, a tall,
informal 33-year-old, seemingly burnt
thin by his enthusiastic wit and eager
energy, who has been Director of Pro-
ductions for the Arts Council of Great
Britain’s Midland Theatre Company.
Also for a time Director of Productions
for Sir Barry Jackson’s Birmingham
Repertory Company, he has produced
at the Memorial Theatre at Stratford,
the Belgian National Theatre at Brussels,
The Hague Company in Holland, and,
recently, at the Old Vic, A law student
before the war, Langham developed a
suppressed love of theatre in German
p.-0.-w. camps. Fame of his “captive”
productions went ahead of him to
London, and on release he was offered
professional work. In Perth he has
lectured publicly and at the University ;
in the forthcoming Festival of Perth,
organised by Professor Alexander for the
Adult Education Board (by which Lang-
ham was brought to Westralia), Lang-
ham will make Australian theatrical
history. A Shakspearian apron-stage is
being constructed at the University out-
door auditorium for his “Richard III,”
which is likely to prove ah exciting and
stimulating adventure. James Bailey,
who came to Australia with the Oliviers,
and remained, is to play Richard.
Geoffrey Donald Brown starts the new
year a member of Melbourne Stock
Exchange and partner in lan Potter and
Co. He won’t feel exactly strange—
having been (after three years among the
softgoods of Flinders-lane) secretary of
the Stock Exchange for the past 25 years.
“Keynote”: Sir William Walton, who,
with Vaughan Williams, is accepted as
the most distinguished of contemporary
British composers, had his first string
quartette, aired at the Salzburg Festival
of 1923, described by one critic as
“horrible.” In three years the same critic
was admitting that Walton’s position as
the most hopeful of English composers
born into the 20th century was assured.
The works which established the com-
poser were “Facade” (which accompanies
a series of satirical poems by Edith Sit-
well), the concert-overture “Portsmouth
Point” and the widely-known oratorio
“Belshazzar’s Feast.” The seal of com-
petence was solidly set when he was com-
missioned, in 1937, to write the Coro-
nation march, “Crown Imperial.” Since
then he has composed the music for
Olivier’s films, “Henry V” and “Hamlet.”
Now the Arts Council has commissioned
Walton to write Queen Elizabeth’s Coro-
nation march, “Orb and Sceptre.” Son of
a music-teacher, he learnt his keynotes at
Christ Church Cathedral Choir School,
Oxford, of which university he’s now a
Doctor of Music.
Returned from the U.S., recipient of
an award too heavy for him to carry
with him, Sir Macfarlane Burnet, director
of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute.
The award, an armless and headless gold
statuette, a copy of the Winged Victory
of Samothrace, goes annually to the men
responsible for the seven most important
medical achievements. In Burnet’s case,
it was his discoveries on viruses. He
reports a change in the ’flu virus, which
is getting easier to catch and harder to
cure. Over there, he met three Texans
in a cafe. One of them said; “Say,
stranger, are you an Englishman?” “No,”
said Burnet, “I’m an Australian.” “So
am I,” said the other. “I wouldn’t have
thought it,” said the doctor, “Waal, it’s
this way,” said the Texan. “When I
first came to this country I used to speak
the same sort of broken English you do,
but I soon got over it.”'
“Trinco”: When “Punch” appointed
C. K. Bird (“Fougasse,” the artist) as
editor in 1949, it was a break with tradi-
tion, Bird’s six predecessors having been
all writing men. The appointment of
Malcolm Muggeridge, the new editor, is
a further break, Muggeridge being the
first editor who has come from outside
the paper’s staff. Though he has never
contributed to “Punch,” the new man is
a journalist of considerable note in Eng-
land, with both political and literary in-
terests. Author of a play, two novels and
a biography of Samuel Butler, he edited
Ciano’s diaries and papers, and for some
time in the early ’thirties was the “Man-
chester Guardian’s” correspondent in
Moscow.
Walter Lawry Waterhouse, retiring
Professor of Agriculture at Sydney Uni-
versity, owns enough scientific medals to
make a sizeable chain. He has, too, the
gratitude of farmers, millers, bakers and
all those whose livelihood is grain, by
reason of his breeding the rust-resistant
wheats which have done much to secure
wheat-production in N.S.W. Old Digger
and M.C.-winner, son of a one-time head
of Sydney High, Waterhouse went from
Hawkesbury Agricultural College to the
Imperial College of Science and Tech-
nology in London, won an Exhibition
Prize the year War I started, and, in-
valided out in 1917, won a Walter and
Eliza Hall Research Fellowship the year
it ended. Since then he’s been at Sydney
University, beginning as a lecturer in
plant-pathology. He was president of the
Linnaean Society here in 1935, and of the
Royal Society of N.S.W. two years later.
Though his work in rusts put him in
world class in that field, those who know
claim that his solidest work has been in
training scientists, particularly in turning
the minds of agricultural graduates to the
importance of science in their game. He’s
65.
Brigadier David Whitehead is to lead
Australia’s Army Coronation contingent,
resplendent, of course, in new khaki. Joe
Garvey, erstwhile private, presents him
here as his machine-gun mob knew him
FOR THE CORONATION
in the Middle East, complete with favorite
accoutrement. Known —from his name-
sake’s invention of the 21in. torpedo—
as “Torpy,” Whitehead won his M.C. as
a machine-gun battalion officer in War I.
Hitler’s show found him C.O. of another
battalion of rat-tatters, first at Mersa
Matruh, and, later, in command of an
infantry battalion, at Alamein. Here he
collected D. 5.0., for the tenacity with
which his command held El Makhad
Ridge for five vicious days. Three
months later, at Tel el Eisa, he added
a Bar to the D.S.O. In those days usually
to be found in the thick of the stoushing
with his tommy-gun, Torpy, at 56, now
holds an executive position with Shell in
Melbourne.
This Coventry impression is of Richard
Arthur Blackburn, at 34 Professor of Law
at Adelaide University. Son of Black-
burn, V.C., he took his B.A. degree
from his present address, and in 1939 was
selected as the State’s Rhodes Scholar.
There was a sterner curriculum ahead—
studied in the Middle East, New Guinea
and Borneo, with rank of captain at the
end of term. Blackburn took his delayed
scholarship after the war-, gained first-
class honors in jurisprudence and the
Eldon Law Scholarship, and was admitted
YOUNG LAW PROFESSOR
to the Inner Temple in 1949. He retains
an interest in affairs military, as major and
2/i.c. of the University Regiment. Claims
to play all sports—badly.
“Uramao”: Two Enzedders, E. P.
Hillary and G. Lowe, will be included in
Colonel' Hunt’s British Everest expedi-
tion, which will have its shot at the hill
in the new year. Though Hillary is a
bee-farmer, and Lowe a schoolteacher,
they learnt their mountaineering pot-
hooks in the Southern Alps, which ownto
a sizeable mound or two. As well, bsth
were members of the recent expedition
to the Garwhal section of the Himalayas,
and Hillary was with Eric Shipton when
he made his recco of Everest this year.
Made Knights of the Order of St. John
by the Queen, three prominent Australian
medicoes. Major - General Frederick
Maguire, appointed in 1941 to take charge
of Army education, was formerly D.-G.
of Army Medical Services. A Macquarie-
street surgeon and sometime Acting-
Professor of Anatomy at Sydney Uni-
versity, he saw service in New Guinea
and France in War I, winning D.S.O.
Author of various anatomical textbooks.
Lieut.-Colonel Ernest Russell, hailing
from Adelaide, *was a two-pipper with the
Light Horse Field Ambulance before
War I, and during it practised on Lemnos
and in France, ending up in charge of the
3rd A.G.H. in Abbeville. He was a
former president of the S. Australian
B.M.A. Clement Armour Verco gradu-
ated from Sydney University at the turn
of the century, practised in Sydney's
Western Suburbs, and now medicoes on
the North Shore.
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 75, Frederick John Mills,
ending the outstandingly benevolent career of
“The Twinkler.” Known by that aptly descrip-
tive name to thousands of S. Australians through
broadcasting, books and practical welfare work,
Mills started as a G.P.O. telegraphist, and left
the post office in 1923 to become State general-
secretary of the Boy Scouts’ Association and
to start his selfless work among hospitals,
invalids and just about everyone who needed
twinkling up. Under his cheerful guidance the
Scout movement grew to be the largest, in
proportion, in the Commonwealth. The SCL
Twinkler Boys’ Radio Club, which he founded
in 1927, raised thousands of pounds for the
Children’s Hospital. Founder and editor of
the R.S.L. magazine, he twinkled into being
half-a-dozen other organisations.
In Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.), at 105, Hira Mane,
the last Maori who fought against Te Kooti
and the Hau Hau when they were on the
rampage in the ’eighties, winning the Maori
War Medal. The old man was deeply versed
in the district’s history, being a member of
the Ngatika-hungunu tribe, which helped to
make much of it.
At 86, in Melbourne, Thomas Ritchie, one
of Melbourne’s leading Scotsmen. He landed
60 years ago, founded the ironworks firm or
Anderson and Ritchie, and filled pretty well all
the high offices in Scotch affairs in Melbourne
at one time or another. Sir Malcolm Ritchie
is a son.
In Perth, at 79, James Lewis Berkley Weir,
for long prominent in the business and pastoral
life of Westralia. Starting as an accountant m
Fremantle, he acquired interests in properties
in'various parts of the State, was a member or
the Pastoral Appraisement Board, the committee
of the Pastoralists’ Association and of the
R.A.S. City interests took in chairmanship or
W.A. Finance, Ltd., and directorships of several
companies.
At Medindie (S.A.), at 52, Robert John
Bruce, Old Digger and prominent sharebroker
in Adelaide. He left Adelaide and sharebroking
in 1938 for politics in Melbourne, becoming
secretary of the Victorian Liberals, but returned
to Adelaide and sharebroking two years ago.


“QUIET” NEW YEAR’S EVE


ABORIGINALITIES
‘Wysaac Alton”: To read descriptions
of big-game fishermen battling with
white-pointer sharks in S.A. waters one
would think it required all the skill and
nerve needed to slay a tiger with the bare
hands; but this is what actually happens.
A seal is shot, cut up and hung over the
side of a large fishing craft or yacht, to
allow the blood and oil to drip into the
shark-infested water. The angler has his
hook baited in readiness; he selects the
biggest shark among those which are
trying to get at the lures and drops the
bait into its mouth. If the cowardly brute
doesn’t swim off when hooked, a boat-
hook prods it into activity. On rare
occasions a shark will swim about in a
way faintly reminiscent of the leaping and
darting of a real game-fish, but usually
its movements are on a par with the
lumbering of an overweight bullock that
has been lassoed. When it has been
tired out it is brought alongside, gaffed,
then towed to the nearest jetty to be
weighed. I much prefer shark-hunting
of the type used by Captain Joshua
Slocum on his single-handed voyage
around the world. He towed a tin-pan
to attract the brutes, then shot them
through the head with a soft-nosed bullet.
Actually, the most impressive thing about
a white pointer is its weight. But that 6ft.
sea pike the barracuda, or a mad torpedo
of a marlin, will give a man a much better
fight.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: The severe mauling of
a man by a caged cassowary in Sydney’s
zoo causes no surprise to those who know
the large chicken in its northern stamp-
ing-grounds. Here the cassowary’s nest
is reckoned fair game by foraging wild
pigs, who are particularly partial to that
variety of henfruit, but the most cross-
grained old tusker will hightail it for the
horizon should the enraged Ma bird catch
him at the egg cache. For concentrated
weight of fighting fury and courage the
wild pig is hard to beat, yet in the face
of such an attack he will fight only when
surprised and cornered, knowing full well
that his tough hide and bristles are no
protection against the bird’s talons, which
are like steel. One raking sweep,
delivered with the force of a mule’s kick,
can disembowel the biggest porcine pirate.
♦ * * *
“J.E.8.”: Old-time Papuan gold-
fossickers buried there wouldn’t have
praised Woodlark Island in “Billy T.’s”
rapturous terms (B. 3/12/’52). On the
few days in the year that it isn’t rain-
ing the island is enveloped in clothes-
soaking mist, and the place is rotten with
malaria. Miners died so fast there with
malaria and bronchial troubles that the
storekeeper ran out of store-cases, with
which their coffins were made. These
had to be weighed down with heavy
rocks, otherwise they would float in the
water-filled graves.
* * * *
“Emjai”: The wool-boys at play 40 to
50 years ago (B. 10/12/’52) did make
things go with a bang. Maybe it was
something to do with the idea that they
were the “big-shots” that brought .guns
into the doings in their indoor games.
During the Deniliquin Picnic Races Week
around that period they let
themselves go. The Royal Hotel
was reserved for their guests,
and on the Picnic Cup night, at
the strike of midnight, the
winner of the Cup (the quad-
ruped) was brought in, toasted,
and introduced individually to
all who were on deck. It was
then led upstairs into each room
and presented, with more toasts,
to those who, for one reason or
another, had sought their cots.
It is not on record whether it
was then led down the stairs (a
difficult job) or backed down
(which would be easier), or
just lowered over the balcony. But with
the toasting done the clock in the bar
copped it, and when the target-shooting
finished the shot-up chronometer couldn’t
say whether it was midnight or Christmas.
Mine host didn’t worry. It was harvest-
time for him and his bill for damages
was never questioned.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Brick E.,” speak-
ing of the Italian migrant’s assault on our
native birds (B. 10/12/’52), says they’ll
shoot anything, “not even excepting the
laughing jack.” Why “not even”? An
old bloke who spent a lifetime in the
bush and had sampled practically every-
thing it had to offer classed the kooka-
burra as the choicest of all native poultry.
He said the natives preferred it, too. So
there’s no reason why it shouldn’t appeal
to the Italian palate. Not that I con-
done the Italians’ murdering of our birds.
I saw too much of it in the Westralian
wheatbelt during the early ’thirties. But
what made me maddest was to see a
swarthy cook plucking a willie-wagtail.
The tiny body was going in a stew.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Young George has recently
taken up competitive swimming, so it was
not surprising that he should keep in
“Dropping his aitches again!"
trim while on holidays. From my fishing-
possie on the rocks I could see him flay-
ing the water in the rock baths as he
repeatedly churned across and back, but
his antics after he had climbed out nearly
caused me to. shove a hook through my
finger. He was doing some sort of
eurhythmic dance along the weed-slippery
concrete sea-wall. Heel to toe, heel to
toe he went, all the way across. On the
way back to the camp he bought a school-
ruler and a pencil. After lunch he was
missing. We found him with a chewed
pencil, some jumbled figures on the back
of a tea-packet, and a do-it-or-bust ex-
pression on his face. Inquiries as to the
problem received an intense “Ssh” and
continued mumblings: “Eleven inches
and a third—that’s eleven-point-three
“Stand easy , men!”
repeater. Ninety-four and a third times
that. Hmm . . . should be right, but it
don’t seem to be working out.” Finally
the mists dispelled and we got the
strength of the unwonted brainfag: “I
had to find out the width of the baths,
so I measured it by the. length of my
foot—ninety-four and a third of ’em it
took, and now I’m multiplying that by
11.333 repeater.” For the benefit of
any other, potential swimming champion
who might wish to clock himself in the
baths at Gerringong (N.S.W.), George
decided that the width was 29yds. 2ft.
1.0758 in. But his efforts to establish
his time for a hundred metres, based on
the figures for four laps, ended in a
hollow moan and a resort to A.P.C.
powders.
* * , * *
“Bass”: The semi-migratory birds of
W.A.’s south-western coastal plain have
been more plentiful than Usual this year,
which probably indicates simply that the
summer, after, a slow start, has come in
with a rush in the nor’-west. The crows
showed up first, but they weren’t much
in evidence because they habitually stick
to the western scarp of the Darling
Ranges, and it’s surprising how little
attention even a big flock of crows
attracts when they’re moving through
trees. Some of those flocks number up
to 100, but mostly they’re around the
20-30 mark, and they’re all heading south,
The pelicans, too; they’ve nested among
the islands in Shark Bay and Exmouth
Gulf and now they’re on their annual
migration. But the real migrants are the
swifts and the skuas. The swifts have
come down from either the Himalayas or
Japan, and their long (16in.-span) wings
keep them continually in the air while
they’re here. They’ve come a fair
distance, but as travellers they’re not in
the skuas’ class. The Arctic skua nests
in the Arctic Circle, so the birds we’ll
see on the beaches around Perth have
probably come down from the Siberian
tundras, and they’ll go back there for
the next breeding-season—about March
or April. That seems a long way to
come, and offers a contrast to the
southern skua, another of our migrants,
but a winter one. These birds leave their
nesting-sites on the Antarctic islands —
Heard and others —as winter sets in, and
spend the next few months in the com-
parative warmth of our seas, leaving again
in our spring. Now, why doesn’t the
Arctic skua act similarly? On its migra-
tion south it must pass any number of
localities with a suitable climate, and the
northern-hemisphere waters are well
stocked, yet it passes them to spend a
month or two with us. Anyone know
why?
♦ * * ♦
“Cowrie”: The presence of mutton-
birds (presumably the short-tailed sheer-
water) clustered around the trawler (B.
5/11/’52) wasn’t occasioned by the ex-
pected meal of small fish to be thrown
overboard but to collect any plankton
(on which they feed), which would be
picked up by the net as it reached the
surface. It is a common sight to see
them in flocks off the Tasmanian coast
skimming the surface looking for their
natural food, which usually is found
close to the surface, though when neces-
sary the mutton-bird will dive to collect
its prey.
♦ . * ♦ ♦
“Kelms”: They’re finding gold in the
Camel Paddock, about five miles north
of Coolgardie (W.A.), and someone told
a reporter, who published the yarn, that
the area hadn’t been prospected in the
early days because it had been reserved
for the Afghan camel-drivers, who used
it as a camping-ground. Wrong on all
counts. Its real title is the Camel Farm,
it’s a Government reserve which was never
used by the Afghans, and it’s been pros-
pected as thoroughly as any other part
of the goldfields. If there are rich patches
there now —and they’ve taken £46,000-
worth from one lease, Brown’s Eldorado,
in the last 12 months —they’re no different
from hundreds of other just-as-rich
patches that have been passed over dozens
of times by experienced prospectors. It
was from this Camel Farm that most of
the early explorers borrowed the camels
that took them over so much of the in-
land, and camels and mining equipment
were always available on loan to bona fide
goldseekers. The area is still a reserve,
and as there’s 22,000 acres of it it might
come in handy as a playground when
atomic energy has turned the desert into
garden, or when our growing population
overflows the metropolitan area and gets
into the dry areas.
THREE RIVERINA GHOSTS
1. THE EXILE
If I just close my eyes—just close my eyes —
And blot out heat and dust and glaring sky,
I see another world: a tall, straight spire,
A black-faced clock with antique golden hands*
A cricket oval green and cool beneath,
Shaded with elm and birch, the players dressed
In classic white. The cursed sound of sheep
Recedes. I hear a bat click to a ball —
The vicar’s piling runs, another four,
And scoring off young Wood, the blacksmith,
too.
Hellish vision. So it is to b’e
The exiled son who finds hq can’t forget.
2. THE BUSHRANGER
God, but how could a man forget those days?
Me there was, and young Jim Hannigan
And poor old Barney Coote —us three against
the Queen.
Our horses were the best the country had.
Got free, o’ course, just took, for we was kings;
Breech-loading carbines bangin’ near our knees,
And police revolvers strapped around our waists.
The horses that we pinched, we drove ’em south,
And sold ’em down along the Murray side.
The day we stopped the mail at Moulamein
And young Jim shot the driver off his seat
Was our black day. After that the traps
Were on to us wherever we laid up.
They shot old Barney dead at Grogan’s pub,
Dead drunk he was, too drunk to run or fight,
And cursing breathed his last in Grogan’s yard.
Then Jim was taken quiet along the Bland,
And tried and hanged at Goulburn soon
enough;
While as for me, at last they hanged me too,
One foggy morning there at Darlinghurst.
3. THE MURRUMBIDGEE WHALER
We are the abnegators,
Zero encompasseth our aims,
Desire is dead in us, and hope,
Who recognise no future.
They have no pride in whom desire is dead;
No cruelty who have nothing to protect,
Nor anything to gain from strife.
We are alive, blood moves through our veins,
But slowly, slowly. Our eyes can see,
But nought is sharp defined in our dim world.
N.S.W.
IAIN McDOUGALL.


“Oomalas” (New Britain): Kong-kong,
the weather-controller at Ningau, was a
member of the boat’s crew of the small
pinnace which ran from that island, 19
miles to Naraga Island, taking food for
the copra-cutters and bringing back nuts
and copra. Having Kong-kong as a
member of the crew assured the other
mariners of fine-weather trips, or so
they thought. On one occasion they
were half-way home when a storm hit
them and the towline from pinnace to
surfboat parted and Kong-kong, the
only man in the boat, was left adrift.
The pinnace No. 1 reported the accident,
and his stressing the fact that the rope
parted made me wonder, but close cross-
examination of the crew didn’t shake the
story. Seven weeks later the Rabaul
steamer came to the island. The first man
ashore was Kong-kong. He had drifted
for 19 days before casting up on Purdy
Island. Fortunately he found friendly
natives, who fed and bedded him down,
but not before he had shown them the
surfboat aground on the reef and proved
he was not a “masalai” from the sea.
He made his way
from there to the
Manus group,
thence to Rabaul
and home. During
the war years I
met the No. 1 of
the boat’s crew
and he confessed
he had cut the
towline to bring
it home forcibly
to Kong - kong
that he alone was
responsible for
the sea that was
running and to
“prite ’im” into
doing better in
future.
* *
“Spoke”; A
neighbor vouches
for this. She put
her cow in calf
across the river
Yarra where she
had a paddock.
She was amazed
one morning when
a calf turned up
on her doorstep.
There was no
doubt about where
it came from. Im-
mediately it was
born the calf had
left its mother
and swum across
the river,
* *
“Edx”: Vic’s
household always
seemed to be
heavily overcatted, and when a young
tabby had a litter of four in a
basket by the copper, Vic, who had the
afternoon-shift, decided to transfer the
new family underground, where he
argued it could earn a decent and useful
living suppressing the stable mice. He
bedded them down in a box by the 28
level stables, about 3000 ft. vertical below
the surface, and 4200 ft. on the slope, the
main shaft being on an underlay, very
close to 45 degrees. The cat and three
kittens were still there when he looked
in before going up at 11.30. As he
walked the quarter-mile from the main-
tQ hig house yic wondered where
the week-old blind and helpless fourth
one had got to. He found out at break-
£ast-time when his wife showed him the
mother fast asleep with three of the
kittens breakfasting heartily, in the basket
by the copper, Fatiguq, or dawn and the
fear of dogs, had prevented her from
making another trip for the last one.
Vic, w ho was not a hard man, saved her
further effort by bringing the hungry
mewling catling home himself the same
night.
* * * *
“Olive Willey”: On our farm at Karl-
in eastern wheatbelt, a
touching and amusing friendship has been
f orme d between two animals. In 1929
a baby doe kangaroo became the pet o£
our children. It w&s in the d&y ot horse-
teams, and after the doe had grown past
the m ilk-bottle stage she would feed out
in the paddock with the horses, coming
in to water when they did, and in the
mornings sbe would be waiting among
the fowls for some wheat and a bit of
petting. When tractors replaced horses
tde doc attached herself to the cows,
feeding and resting with them. Some-
-1 6 . & ~ . „
times of an evening she would hop out
to the edge of the crop and feed with
wild kangaroos. Several times at daylight
we found her hobnobbing with a big wild
boomer which she had brought right to
h s heds, but which bounded off at the
approach ' of humans , Early this year aU
I e so£d except one cow
which has since formed a dose £riend .
sb jp w|[£t [be doe xhey feed within a
b o£ one anoth lie at rest
> ogether , Several times the doe has
ch “ sed into the bush by neighbors'
dogs and has remained away half a day
On b occas ; ons the cow be-
disconsolate, bellowing mourn-
and jt till her cobber
F F
' #
# “Dudley”; Unaccountably the early
white settlers took no cognisance of the
abo.’s method of time-measurement, and
it is now difficult to find a record of it.
However, in general use throughout Aus-
tralia the simple lunar observation was
a natural measurer of time, and for longer
periods groups of 10 moons were used,
From stellar observation they knew the
true north, they worked out the declina-
tion of the sun and could tell with
accuracy the number of days from a
“Wish they'd send 'em up the right size."
solstice or equinox. Their observations
of stellar and planetary movements could
hardly have been excelled by the peoples
of the Euphrates Valley and the Nile.
Celestial bodies were named and a
zodiac would appear to have been mea-
sured, perhaps in 10 parts, and contained
such names as the emu, duck, snake and
kangaroo. It is important to know the
names of all the groups in the zoning
and jf they were evenly spaced. Has any
Aboliar any information on this subject?
“Bogaduck”; As a bucolic tightwad,
Skinner was a blood-brother to “Ex-
R.S.M.’s” Bullen (B. 24/12/’52). Skinner
owned 6000 acres of run-down grassland,
and two brothers wanted to put part of
it under wheat on shares. He refused,
because “a thousand quid a year would
go off the place.” The brothers worked
a neighbor’s land on shares, won a crop
competition and made enough in five
years to buy a place of their own. Neither
Skinner’s bank-manager nor the local
stock-agent could convince the old miser
that, by refusing to let a couple of share-
■# 111"®'I
jgopeje® 3 ® 1 ®* 181 *
d
wm
\ v (vi (V
/ jTr7pyrrnT»JlEi
-—' •//
i
“ BOTTLED BEER! What a bonzer place for a holiday!"
farmers “take five thousand quid off
ble place,” he had done himself in the
eye for a similar sum, for which he
would have had to do no work. Any
stock-agent in an old-established farming
district will tell you that the Bullens
and Skinners qre dying out, but the breed
isn’t extinct yet by any means.
* * * *
, „ f
“Gravelsnatcher : This vogue ot
making unfavorable comparisons between
Australian and foreign laborers (B.
26 /11 / ’52) recalls the ’twenties when the
country—l’m speaking of W.A.—was
flooded with southern Europeans. Few
of these chaps could speak a word of
English, and they were met at the boat
bycompatriots who could, and who were
prepared to help them along until they
become acclimatised—at a price, which
was anything from six to 12 months’
work on a clearing contract, for tucker
and a few clothes, and the bosses saw
to it that they worked. As a result foreign
clearing contractors could undercut Aus-
tralians, and they gained something of a
monopoly of the game. That gave the
bright young reporters on the dailies the
opportunity to speak of the decline in
Australian manhood (laboring class) and
the great debt W.A. owed to the hard-
working southern Europeans, who were
opening up the country and doing work
that Australians wouldn’t do. I once
cleared a patch adjoining a farm where
a sroup of southern Europeans were
working, and I could follow their activi-
ties by the ring of the axes. They started
at sun-up, and were chopping after sun-
down, which looked like long hours to
anyone who didn’t know that they had
a three-to-four-hour siesta during the heat
of the day. I worked longer hours than
they did, and I chopped down more than
any one of them, but I couldn’t show the
big cheques those contractors could. But
neither could the blokes who were doing
the real work. Now. I’ve never seen
New Australians working hard, and I’ll
wager that the mob “5 G.R.” saw working
like the hammers of Hades weren’t
doing half the job that the rabbit-chasing
linesmen were. The Australian workman
isn’t a showman, but taken by and large
he’s the world’s best worker.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Archaen”; A pioneer seafaring race
visited the south-west Pacific well over
2000 years ago. Some of the first white
settlers in New Zealand found a group
of Maoris using a large brass vessel for
a cooking-pot. It proved to be an ancient
temple-bell, of the style used in India,
At Lake Setani, on the north coast of
Dutch New Guinea, some Bronze Age
hatchetheads were discovered. In 1944
a coast-watcher in New Britain found an
adze-blade which had been made from a
piece of a double-edged bronze sword. It
has been suggested that these—and other
relics of the same kind—indicate visits
by Chinese junks, but this is not likely.
Chinese historians record that their junks
certainly got around; this is backed by
the discovery of a hoard of 7th-century
Chinese coins m Alaska while Cingalese
historians record visits of junks to Ceylon,
These voyages, however, seem to nave
been confined to the North Pacific and
Indian Oceans, commencing at about
a.d. 500, whereas Bronze Age relics belong
to a much earlier period. The_ Phcem-
cians w,ere in these before the
Chinese, as witness one of their rock
inscriptions in Sumatra, dated by archaeo-
legists at 300 b.c. There is a possi-
bility that the first exploratory voyages
to our sector of the Pacific took place
as far back as 2000 b.c., for then the
Sumerians were voyaging down the
Persian Gulf and across the Arabian Sea
to the Malabar Coast of India, to obtain
the teak beams used in their buildings
at Ur and UI-Abaid. The primitive
Todas of the hill country lying inland
from the Malabar Coast still worship nine
Sumerian gods and goddesses. It may
be that some bold Sumerian sailed on
the unknown seas to the eastward,
to see wbat treasures lay there,
* * * *
„
Rooster : C. Towers must be re-
ferring to Torpedo vulgaris, alias the
cramp-fish—commonly known as torpedo-
fish (B. 10/12/ ’52). The term electric-
ray” is applied to the creature because
it rightly belongs to the Raiidce order,
As for where he packs that electric
punch, it is indicated by dual elevations,
one just above each eye. That is the
focal point. The whole devilish apparatus
occupies all the space between the upper
and under surface of the body, and is
composed of myriads of tubes; a trans-
verse section of this area, in any spot,
has the appearance of a piece of honey-
comb.
* * * *
“Bass”: Sea-birds inland? Once saw
five pelicans land on a Government dam
at Babalin, about 200 miles inland in the
Westralian wheatbelt. I’ve never figured
out why they went so far out of their
usual course, which is roughly north
and south along the coastal plain, or how
they managed to pick out the dam, which
was then the only large body of fresh
water within a 50-mile radius,
* * * *
_„'. , , .
Kios : The lead in pencils of 100
Y ears , ago was made of J natur^ l
and cl W> whereas nowadays the graphite
is artificially produced (from subjection
car t> on . to high temperatures). Natural
B ra Ph lte 18 by no means pure, so I see
no reason why today s artificial article
should not be as good as yesteryear s
product of natural graphite (B.
24/12/’52). The lead in the modern
pencil, is still made from the basic formula
of (artificial) graphite and clay, corn-
pacted under high pressure and fired at
white-heat. It should have lasting quali-
ties. The brickie’s century-old plumb-
line still remains because it is sealed up
behind a wall in a vacuum untouched by
the slow but finally-effective destroying-
agents in the atmosphere. But the year-
old pencil-notes in “Harbel’s” pocket-
book are no doubt being continually
handled, rubbed and smudged over, hence
their rapid obliteration. Anyway,
pencilled scrawlings in my notebooks,
seldom handled, are just as clear close on
20 years after they were written.
MATES
Stella and Diana, go and gather bark in.
Go before the creeping dark hides the light
above;
The white and the dark girl, the moon and
the star-child,
Who nothing know but nonsense, nothing need
but love.
Go and gather bark for the house and the
humpy,
The light-flooded fireside, the smoke-filled shack.
The bone-face banished to gibber in the shadows,
The witch woman cornered in the roaring
chimney-stack.
The moon and the evening star are tangled in
the branches;
Moon-child and star-child are panting in the
scrub
Where the hone-face grins in the tomb of
daylight,
The devil-baby weeping where the lean boughs
rub.
Their beauty is as positive' as the moon’s is
vacant,
Their eyes as deep and darkened as the moon
is bright and high,
The light they shed as mighty as the moon's
is harmless,
Yet ignorant and small are they as the moon
is old and fly.
Though one to the house looks and one to
the humpy,
The one pulse thunders where their hands are
clasping tight.
There will one thought keep them till the sky
breaks golden—■
The one world waiting for the dark girl and the
white.
N.S.W.
JOYCE LEE.


m
CHAMPAGNE
& SPARKLING
BURGUNDY
PENFOLPS WINES PTY. L~
ďf
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
1 Has all the finest features
of hiqh-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National' Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely t * Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd,
PERTH .. .. Docket Book Co. (AusL>
To ALL Six Continents
FLY BRITISH *
Fly in superb comfort, by luxurious 8.0.A.C.
airliners to any of 51 countries. Fly swiftly,
smoothly, at heights where the
always fine. Delicious meals and
the excellent meal-time drinks
are free. No tips, either, for
courteous service. Frequent
services by 4-engined 8.0.A.C
weather is
v:
pressurized airliners cover a world-wide
network of routes. 33 years
international flying experience.
★
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA
MALAYA • HONG KONG • JAPAN
CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
MIDDLE EAST • AFRICA • EUROPE
GREAT BRITAIN • U.S.A.
CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH
AMERICA • BERMUDA
B.O.A.C.—leads with the
Comet services now operating
Johannesburg London, Colombo London,
and Singapore London, are forerunners of
world-wide 8.0.A.C. Jetliner services.
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., ( 8.0.A.C ,
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin
or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
RRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
A36/AU
Business. Rollery. Etc.
A Firmer Sharemarket
The oversubscription (and
prompt closing) of the Common-
wealth £2O million 4\ p.c. loan
had a good effect on the security
market as the year drew to its
close. To turn people away who
had cash to invest at 4j p.c. was
good psychology; it should help
when the next (and probably
larger) loan is offered for public
subscription. It has already
helped to stimulate interest in
solid industrial equities. A
stockbroker can now say with
reasonable certainty that the
bond-rate has steadied at 4\ p.c.,
and sound industrials and pref.-
shares can be bought with that
yield in mind as a yardstick.
With the wool cheque for the
half-year to December 31 esti-
mated at £l6O million, and with
every indication of record
spending during the Christmas
season, the sharemarkets closed
for 1952 on a stronger note.
There was keen demand for par-
ticular stocks (such as Tooth
shares, up from 635. to 695.),
and a generally wider inquiry
for most leading stocks (such
as 8.H.P., up from 40s. to
425,).
Already some of the newer
classes of stocks are beginning
to sort themselves out. Manage-
ment is being tested—severely
in some cases. And the
woollen-textile industry is having
a tough time almost regardless
of management. It has had the
double misfortune of having to
write-down the price of raw
wool at a time when turnover
has been shrinking badly.
It was refreshing to hear, the
week before Christmas, that
F. W. Hughes Industries hoped
to have its spinning and weav-
ing factories working full time
early in the New Year. A new
weaving factory at Brookvale
(near Sydney) is expected to be
in production by March. The
wool-combing factory has been
in full production since April,
and orders in hand should keep
it occupied for several months.
The pastoral section of the
Hughes empire had had a good
season, and all stations were
assured of good feed until the
autumn. If wool remained ,at
current levels profits from the
pastoral section should be “very
satisfactory.” The co.’s meat
industries, after good results last
year, had improved their turn-
over since June 30.
Another cross-section of Aus-
tralian industry (but a different
section) is to be found in
Howard Smith. Here the in-
terests run from coal and ship-
ping to steel and sugar. H.S.
shares have been as low as 265.
this year. After last sales at
295. buyers were offering that
figure last week. Immediate
yield is just over 4.1 p.c.
Howard Smith, on book-
values, has net tangible assets of
40s. 3d. behind each £1 ord.
share. But at present these
assets are not giving a high
yield; last term’s disclosed pro-
fits were 9.2 p.c. on ord. capital,
which means only about 4.6 p.c.
on ord.-shareholders’ funds. Still,
with any sort of an upswing in
economic conditions Howard
Smith is sitting in a key posi-
tion to take advantage of
greater general industrial
activity. The coal outlook is
better.
Bank of N. S. Wales shares
are still an outstanding example
of the market paying little more
than par for the asset-values be-
hind the shares. Net tangibles
amount to £36 14s. 4d. on book-
values ; last week’s price was
only £37. Yet these assets must
be among the most conserva-
tively valued of any stock listed
on Australian ’Changes. The
yield from an 8 p.c. div. is 4.3
p.c., which apparently governs
the present price.
Burns Philp assets are well
known to be valued on a most
conservative basis. They visibly
represent 50s. Bd. a share, with
great inner strength in the book-
value of shareholdings, Includ-
ing Queensland Insurance. But
the market prices the shares at
57s. —only 6s. or 7s. above the
disclosed book-value of the
assets. On an enlarged capital
the co. has dropped its interim
div. from 12i p.c. to 10 p.c.,
and, on the lower rate, the
market asks for a yield of 3.5
p.c. Again immediate income is
seen to be a weighty factor in
the market’s approach to a first-
class stock with a wide variety
of interests.
Henry Jones, with a new issue
on the way, is being bought at
575.; net tangible backing for
the present 1,800,000 £1 ords. is
visibly 525. Bd. each, with un-
doubtedly more for the search-
ing. Edwards, Dunlop, another
canny concern, exhibited
535. 7d. of assets for each £1
share, which are priced at
595. 3d. Bradford Cotton ords.
at 345. 9d. had 335. 9d. of dis-
closed assets behind them and
gave a yield of 5.7 p.c., which
seems well covered even in pre-
sent circumstances.
There is no common unit by
which to compare many of these
different types of business. No
two would adopt an exactly simi-
lar method of valuing their assets
or of writing-off depreciation.
But those concerns which did
no “watering” during the recent
boom will in most cases have
more up their sleeves than those
which did indulge in melon-
cutting.
The market for good shares
is plainly still very low from
the point of view of assets-
valuation. * People are con-
cerned with immediate income
rather than future prospects. No
spectacular change in income
prospects is likely during the
coming year. But a healthier
tone is likely to develop through
the better-managed section of in-
dustry. Businesses which have
overstretched themselves may
still find the going hard.
Roma Oil Survey
“Petro”: At the annual meet-
ing of Associated Australian Oil-
fields, N.L., on December 16, the
chairman (F. B. Clapp) stated
that a further seismic survey of
the Roma area had just been
commenced by the Federal
Bureau of Mineral Resources.
As long ago as November,
1947 y the bureau initiated a
geophysical gravity survey in
this much-drilled district. The
gravity anomalies then measured,
however, did not appear to have
allowed of geological interpre-
tation, and, to help matters out,
a magnetometer was added to
the field party’s equipment in
May, 1948. A combined gravi-
tational and magnetometric
survey was then continued until
the end of the year, but still the
translation of the data obtained
by the two methods into indica-
tions of structure suitable for
the drilling of an oil test-well
“There's Henry—working on another of his
get-rich-quick schemes !”
does not appear to have been
satisfactorily accomplished.
In 1949 a seismic outfit was
brought into the area by the
bureau, and it was stated, in
May of that year, that the final
survey would be completed, and
tbat tbe combined results of the
tbree geophysical methods
employed, including, presum-
ably some usable interpretations,
would be available within three
months. Over 12 months, how-
ever, elapsed before “a pre-
hmmary statement of the results”
was delivered, and the issue of a
prospectus by Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields with the object
of raising funds for drilling a
well, as a result of the bureau’s
report, was made possible.
Hie co.’s No 1 test-well was
abandoned > early in August of
this year after striking: bedrock
at 3879 ft., which depth,
incidentally, negatived the
bureau’s interpretation, from its
triply - determined geophysical
data, of a “structural high”
underlying the site. In fact, the
disposition of the bedrock was
consistent with the information
given on a 20-year-old sub-
surface contour map which had
been drawn from drilling results
and without geophysical aid.
No. 2 test-well, now being
drilled, is an offset of Roma
Blocks No. 4 well. Allowing for
the effects of lenticularity and
faulting, the results from it can
be better predicted from those
of the older well than from a
geophysical survey. It is there-
fore difficult to appreciate what
benefit can accrue by the further
expenditure of public money for
supporting yet another geo-
physical survey at Roma by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources.


From a banker’s diary
No. 9
Wednesday: Mr. WMKBBBBBt will shortly
be making another business
trip interstate. He asked me
to put him in touch with some
of our country branch managers.
A banker is a good man to know
Mr. iBHHBH is a customer of my branch,
but his business takes him to many parts of the
Commonwealth. So when he travels he arranges
for introductions from me to our branch
managers in the places he will visit. He finds it
useful to have someone in each place to whom
he can turn for information on local business
conditions. As he says —to be a customer of
the “Wales” is to have friends all over Australia.
You, too, should consult and use —
/ Y(JU eft* 1
\iauk .
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW BOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5219C
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORSi
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
C. 0. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
m
i mi
mm
li
■HR
■
■
mm
m
ftj||
iill ||
IHP
n
I
I vtor,
iX - s -v<f
THE BEST GOL BURNED WESTERN
SHOW ON THE AIR!
For laughs and songs in Western style, “Benning-
ton’s Bunkhouse Show” (Wednesdays, 7.30 p.m.)
is the happiest and best half-hour on the air.
Some of the main reasons are pictured—topline
entertainers like (1. to r.) Lou Carapara, Noel Judd,
Diana Davidson, Keith Walshe, Tim McNamara,
Neil Williams, Lily Connors, Queenie Ashton and
George “Sassafras” Foster.
“Bennington’s Bunkhouse Show” is produced and
presented for the makers of Bonnington’s Irish
Moss by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service.
2GB • 3AW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 3CV 6WB 6MD
:
Hope you’ll be listening
next Wednesday, folks I
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
The Security Market
Since the liquidity went out
of the New Zealand market
shares have drifted a long way,
and Maoriland investors have
felt the vicelike squeeze of the
year-old policy of tight credit
which came into force in Decem-
ber, 1951. Those with long
memories, or a bent for research,
have been startled, on looking
back, to find that the fall over
the twelvemonth was a good
deal steeper than in the dark
years of 1929-32. Even Stock
Exchange heads hadn’t realised
the year was such a hard one
until a few got down to figuring
it out on paper, aided by tables
and graphs.
Steep Sharemarket Fall
Don Schrfkuer, chairman of
the Auckland Exchange,
summed up things at the year-
end by showing that 30 p.c. of
the value of shares was wiped
out in 15 months, from October,
1951, onwards, against a slide of
29 p.c. in the three years fol-
lowing the Wall-street crash
that rocked the world. The rate
of fall was double that of the
big slump, yet investors were
still standing up to it well, thanks
to reasonable steadiness in most
other prices and values, above
all in basic commodities like
foodstuffs, and to still-profitable
returns for wool. What had
happened was that most, if not
all, the inflation injected into
stocks and shares in the post-
war boom years was removed
under pressure, while real pros-
perity continued to flow on.
Said Don Schnauer; “Despite
the fall, the present state of
New Zealand’s economy is one
of realism, and bears no re-
lationship to the disastrous de-
pression years. It is to be hoped
that the psychological factor of
confidence in the future of the
country will become more evi-
dent in the year ahead.”
Interest-rate Factor
One of the imponderables has
been the Government’s delay in
revising interest-rates on a
falling market. This has left all
borrowers, above all semi-Gov-
ernment authorities, more-or-
less high and dry. There’s a
long queue of applicants for
loans, and with only a trickle of
money to draw on at the present
unattractive local body-rate of
4 p.c., there appears to be noth-
ing for it but to prune all loan
programmes drastically. Dnly
the most urgent seem to nave
any chance of a run on the
market.
The alternative is to force
interest-rates up and up, much
the same as in Australia, where
the comparable rate has been
4\ p.c. for some time. Just how
hopeless the prospect is for near-
gilt-edged issues is seen when
comparisons are made with gilts,
which today give a yield of about
£4 3s. 6d. per cent., although the
Government still maintains the
pretence that the gilt rate hasn’t
risen above 3 p.c. It will have
to declare a new rate early in
1953, when it makes the next
move to borrow for national de-
velopment, and in anticipation
of this finance leaders favor
“official support” for sagging
gilts to give the market a little
strength, instead of leaving
values to take their course.
Inflation Danger
N.Z. could well take the same
steps as other countries in float-
ing loans with twofold advant-
age —saving in public indebted-
ness, in both capital and in-
terest, and hardening in stocks
and shares through release of
substantial sums into the hands
of the public for reinvestment.
Although Maoriland’s capital
market is small, it is large
enough for the State to operate
with well-timed entries to sup-
port its own securities, and,
through them, values generally,
provided the funds employed are
drawn from reserves and depart-
mental balances, not conjured-up
in the form of newly-created
credit. Soundly used, the pro-
cedure would make the most of
what strength there is in the
money system. Any departure
from the rule that only exist-
ing money should be mobilised
for the purpose would be
straightout inflationary, but so
long as there is a Government
in power which stands for free
enterprise there should be no
great risk.
Ineffectual Controls
One of the controls over
industry in Maoriland which
should have been jettisoned years
ago, or, better still, never tried,
will be dumped—except for
petrol reselling and pharmacies
—when the Government scraps
the Industrial Efficiency Act
(1936) any time now. The two
survivors will shelter in future
under the wing of the young
Board of Trade. This control,
like most others, has been more
or less a costly nuisance. It
didn’t stop a lot of backyard
factories from springing up to
exploit shortages and rake in
easy profits for unbranded goods
in the post-war sellers’ market
which was a happy hunting
ground for profiteers until quite
recently.
Three years ago New Zea-
land’s fourth secondary industry,
footwear manufacture, was de-
licensed, and it was high time
then that others were freed, too,
for it was as plain as a pikestaff
that control was a laughing-
stock. In the ten'years footwear
was superficially toeing the line
a good deal that couldn’t bear
scrutiny was going on behind
the scenes. If licensing had any
value at all it was to keep out
intruders and inefficient gentry
who had no reputation to lose,
but thousands of pairs of shoes
from dozens of unlicensed fac-
tories found their way into
M.L. shops each year, and were
easily sold to the unwary. If
they collapsed under hard wear,
burst at the seams or took in
water like cardboard, there was
no redress, and M.L.’s footwear
industry came in for a consider-
able amount of undeserved abuse
in consequence. Eventually it
was revival of competition that
put an end to this piracy, and, as
might have been forecast all
along, was a far more effective
protection for legitimate trade
than control which couldn’t be
enforced without an army of
inspectors.
Far more important than in-
dustrial licensing to M.L. in-
dustry is the shelter of import
and exchange controls, which
give local enterprise assured
priority and a large share of the
market. This is the general
opinion of M.L. manufacturers
today, after the fright they’ve
had over the past twelvemonth.
For a while they hardly knew
what struck them when the
Government, under the guidance
of the Board of Trade, threw the
door open to imports and
allowed the Reserve Bank to sit
back while imports rolled in.
Only when M.L. was in danger
of going broke externally was it
realised that something would
have to be done, and the R.B.
was ordered to jam on the
brakes.
Although it has taken months
to overcome the speed-wobble,
manufacturers feel easier about
things now, and would be
happier still if they felt rationing
of exchange was likely to con-
tinue for a long time. This is
for them real protection;
licensing of industry was nothing
more than a sham. One of the
glaring mistakes was in licensing
three tyre-manufacturing cos. to
share M.L.’s small market. To-
day all are up against a tough
selling problem, and have had
to shorten sail.
N.Z.’s Pine Forests
Builders, sawmillers, foresters
and investors who have sunk
millions of capital in forests and
the timber industry in Femland
are doing some hard thinking
about the future as stocks of
Pin us radiata begin to be a drug
on the market and supplies of
native woods run low.
With 585,000 acres under
radiata and 210,000 under other
Pinus species, New Zealand has
a crop maturing that will have to
be harvested and sold on a big
scale, and at the moment the
demand just isn’t there. All
told, 900,000 acres have been
planted in trees of one kind or
another, with the State owning
a shade over half the total and
private-enterprise concerns, like
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
Matea Forests, Ltd., and a few
others the balance.
A lot of estimates and fore-
casts have been circulated about
the possible yield from these
areas when everything is in full
swing, and Maorilanders have
been dazzled by glowing
promises of limitless wealth
within their reach, but so far
development hasn’t got much
beyond the testing stage.
W. C. Ward, inspector in
charge of the commercial divi-
sion of Maoriland’s forest ser-
vice, figures out that the
potential harvest will run into
175 million cubic feet yearly
within measurable time, and
that sawmillers will handle
the lion’s share. Ultimately
this could be quadrupled. Al-
ready native forest output is
dropping behind as faster-grow-
ing trees from abroad replace
rimu, totara and matai and the
famous kauri, which is now
commercially little more than a
memory.
Not long ago a Swedish
expert, Prof. Hugo Osvald,
advised Fernland foresters to
overhaul their tree-planting pro-
gramme in the light of the
world’s latest experience, and to
take a longer view of the future.
Said'he: “It is necessary to get
quality in production rather
than quantity, and forestry
must be well managed. There
is much more in it than merely
planting and cutting. It means
silviculture, thinning and prun-
ing as well. The time has come
when more attention should be
paid to a policy based on pro-
duction of more valuable timber
than Pinus radiata, including
not only exotics but also many
extremely valuable native trees.”


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONEY BATES;
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
" METROPOLE.”
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
%J IVj i
m
m : pi i
I*
ii
v • i - ? ; i w - 1
i,--
. '■ %& **— ■l jf~~a ' l r 4
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28 /6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS.
Tribune Btreet, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
df
d
fd
f
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ere
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.*
( —D i vs.
Net Pref. Re .
June, Profit. 6 p.e. Ordinary. serves, f
1948 Ajj 7 t’ 340 I4 > 400 12ip.C. = 224.848 1.141,863
Added capital reserves, £398,326 ..1,540,189
, sundr y adjustments, £27,091 .. 1.513,098
iQao Ad^ e f-ro D o tall JF ibles ’ £lo > m • . 1,502,921
1949 a',£j 6 */ 783 80 > 956 12Jp,c.= 287,472 1,749,276
a!aj j capital reserves, £1,061,032.. 2,810,308
Added sundry reserves, net, £20,634 2,830,942
. ction intangibles, £6526 . . 2,837,468
1.950. 597,080 64,800 12| p.c. = 356,210 3,013,538
share-premiums, £474,946 . . . . 3,488,484
Sale assets. £1745 .. .. 3,490,229
unexplained additions, £146,885 ..3,637,114
From stock reserves, £160,000 . . 3,797,114
Lo i® on shares sold, £55,960 ..3,741,154
19o!. .672.851 64,800 12J p.c. = 379,957 3,969,248
f rom tax reserves. £50,000 . . . . 4,019.248
Unexplained reduction, £3048 . . 4,016,200
Written off intangibles, £350 .. .. 4,016,550
Loss.
1952. .473,577 64,800 Nil 3,478,173
* lV? or ded ucting outside shareholders’ interest,
t After deducting goodwill, etc.,'now £157,600,
The fall in wool prices and slump in
the textile trade dealt a severe blow to
this big and hitherto prosperous wool-
and textile-manufacturing organisation,
which is the largest domestic consumer
of the staple in the Commonwealth.
Heavy stocks and a large pile of book-
debts had to be worked down on a falling
market in order to lighten the load of out-
side debt. And, for the first time since
the public became interested in 1936,
trading resulted in a loss and the ords.
failed to receive a div. —they were
handed a steady 10 p.c. for the decade
to 1946, and then 12| p.c. for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1951.
Production of the parent and its 30-
odd Australian subsidiaries ranges over
a wide field, including felt piece-goods,
footwear, carpets, knitted goods, woollen
and worsted cloth, and trimmings, etc.,
for the motor-assembly trade. There is
also an N.Z. subsidiary in which a 52 p.c.
ord. interest (245,000 £1 shares) is held,
and a million-odd pound S. African
associate, in which the holding is 42 p.c.
Last term the N.Z. offshoot netted more
than enough to pay its pref. div. and
maintain 8 p.c, to the ords. The S.
African co. ma“de a loss of £35,384 as
against a profit of £191,846 for the
previous term, and paid no ord. div.
The dean-on-floor Australian average-
price of wool in the 64’s-58’s quality-
bracket fell from a peak of 378 d. for
March, 1951, to 173 d. in the following
June, a drop of 54.2 p.c. The down-trend
continued with fluctuations, the figure
having dropped to 133 d. for June, 1952, a
slip of 23.1 p.c. over the twelvemonth.
There has since been a welcome up-turn
in the trend, the average on Dec. 12,
1952, being 143 d., or 7.5 p.c. above the
preceding June level.
That the co. was able to make such a
good showing in the 1951 term was due
to the rocketing of wool prices and buoy-
ant trade conditions during the first nine
months of the period. At June 30, 1951,
wool stocks were taken into account at
then current market prices. And the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
opened with an overflowing order-book.
But conditions worsened as the year ad-
vanced. The continued fall in wool
prices was accompanied by a steep rise
in wage-rates and other operating costs.
Also the rising tide of imports, stemmed
by Government action in March last,
tightening of credit and growth of con-
sumer-resistance hit both the co. and its
customers. Toward the close of accounts
orders for some lines fell almost to
vanishing-point, cancellation of forward
contracts occurred and manufactured
stocks began to pile up.
After writing-down the book-value of
stocks by ah unstated but substantial
amount and allowing £302,917 (down
£203,792) for depreciation, the net result
was a loss of £473,577. The prefs. re-
ceived their 6 p.c. (£64,800) and £50,000
was transferred from tax provisions,
making the net reduction in reserves
£491,075, after allowing for minor
adjustments. Of the £3,478,173 of re-
serves shown in the table, £129,480
(down £370,520) is still earmarked as a
“special” provision against exceptional
market fluctuations.
The slip in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£2,179,696, excluding shares in
other cos.) was £1,361,228:
„ , 1950. 1051. 1952.
Paid capital . . £4,349.674 £5,299,565 £5,299,565
Outside interests.. 1,262,758 853,231 857,582
Debentures , . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debenture reserve 6,072 9,199 13 159
Mortgages . . 2.558,024 2,254,271 2,517,896
Overdraft . . 1,850.915 5.068.547 3,755,625
Sundry creditors,
m cte - 1,586,614 3.080,708 1,329,278
Tax provision . . 642,270 678,105 404,052
Inter-eo. balance.. 86,417
Final div... / .. 200,305 233,052 81,200
Freeholds . . . . 3,635.168 3,429.524 3,702,623
P, lant , • • 2,905,870 2,712,981 3,323,378
Shares other cos.. , 458,287 447,814 442,775
Stock ■ • • • 6.592,068 11.679,701 8.049,031
Debtors .. ~ 2,864,722 4,029,570 3,013,767
Cash. etc... .. 13,400 1,178 5,842
Mortgage sinking fund 96,072 119,199 143,152
Inter-co. balance . . 25,959 6,555
Goodwill, etc. . . 163,017 157,950 157,’f>00
The stocks figure was reduced by
£3,630,670 and debtors’ balances by
£1,015,803, while £1,312,922 was slashed
off the overdraft and £1,751,430 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors. The
net addition to fixed assets was £883,496,
largely for completion of plant instal-
lations in the carpet section. When the
books closed there was 17s. (225. Id. at
the previous balance) belonging to
mortgagees, the bank and sundry credi-
tors in the business for ever £ of share-
holders’ funds.
How is the current term likely to turn
out? At the moment the overall position
favors appearance of a moderate profit.
The co. is firmly established, its plants
are modern and “conservatively” valued
in the books, the strengthening of wool
prices has eliminated the worst of the
danger Connected with stocks—they were
taken into account at current market
values at June 30 last—import restric-
tions, which might be eased in the near
future, have lessened the threat from
overseas competition, the credit position
has improved and trade generally is
beginning to pick up. Still, competition
remains keen and costs heavy, which
means narrow margins.
At 235. 9d. (40s. 6d. early in 1951) the
ords. would return 6.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The 6 p.c. second and 4 p.c.
third prefs. at 19s. and 13s. yield 6.3 p.c.
and 6.2 p.c. respectively. The well-
protected - firsts seldom appear on
’Change. Net tangible cover is £43 13s. 9d.
seconds, £6 15s. 6d. thirds and 38s. 3d.
ords.
British Standard Machinery Co., Ltd.
, r -—Dividends
Ist Pref. 2nd Pref. Ords. Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. 8 p.c. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, patents, etc., written off,
£6500 23,197
Prom sale of rights, £25,000 .. .. 48,197
1946.. 16,012 2,100 5,600 56,509
Premium on shares, £12,500 .. 69,009
Cost of issue of shares, £635 .. .. 68,374
1947.. 16,119 2,100 205 6,258 75,930
1948.. 26,599 2,100 2,500 13,600 84,330
9 p.c.
1949.. 37,705 2,100 2,500 15,300 102,135
10 p.c.
1950.. 70,683 2,100 2,500 17,000 151,218
Revaluation assets, £170,000 .. 321,218
Reserves capitalised, £170,000 .. 151,218
Share-issue exes., £996 . . 150,222
1951.. 101,601 2,100 2,500 84,500 212,723
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .." 277,723
Share-issue expenses, £2600 .. .. 275,123
1952.. 103,428 2,100 2r500 62,400 311,551
To stock reserve, £lOO,OOO .. 211,551
Mechanisation of heavy-construction
and other work, on both public and
private account, sent post-demand for
this co.’s earthmoving, ancilliary and
other equipment along with a rush. Earn-
ings responded and shareholders joined
in the prosperity. They received a steady
8 p.c. for the 11 years to 1948, followed
by 9 p.c. and then 10 p.c. for the three
years to the close of last accounts.
And the 10 p.c. was sweetened with a
one-for-one bonus scrip-issue (£170,000)
in November, 1950, made from a reserve
created from revaluation of fixed assets.
This was immediately followed by a cash
issue of 180,000 new £1 ords. at par.
Then, to lighten the debt and finance
further expansion, 260,000 ords. were put
out at a premium of ss. each early in
1952—-the premium (£65,000) was added
to reserves. Paid capital thus became
£860,000 in 30,000 7 p.c. and 50,000 5 p.c.
prefs. and 780,000 ords.
The co. handles Cletrac and Oliver
crawler- and wheeled-tractors, and makes
(at its Alexandria works, near Sydney)
’dozers, graders, rooters and a lot of other
tractor-drawn equipment, as well as con-
crete-mixers and a wide range of heavy-
engineering products. And now, by
arrangement with the English principals,
Coventry fork-trucks and allied appur-
tenances are to be added to the list of
manufactures, and the first units are ex-
pected to come off the production lines
about June next. Also, following an “ex-
tensive survey” of export markets, this
section of the co.’s activities is to be ex-
panded—an encouraging and healthy
development from both the national and
shareholders’ point of view. Hitherto,
export had been limited to token ship-
ments, owing to the strength of local
demand.
Last term the co. got its full share of
business offering, but curtailment of
Government and other spending affected
demand, especially during the latter half,
while production and distribution costs
rose steeply. After taking stocks into
account at the lower of cost or replace-
ment value, allowing £18,879 (down (
£12,926) for depreciation and £72,350
(down £24,455) for taxation, net earnings
were visibly £1827 better at £103,428.
The pref. divs. called for £4600, and the
balance was equal to 12.6 p.c. on ord.
capital as it stood at the close of
accounts, compared with 18.6, 38.8, 19.4
and 12.9 p.c. back to 1948. still, the
board didn’t hesitate to repeat the 10 p.c.
div. The £36,428 that remained and
£63,572 besides (£lOO,OOO in all) was ear-
marked as a special stock depreciation
reserve, which has been deducted from
the book-value of the assets in the pub-
lished accounts.
Factory- and plant-extension, partly on
account of new fork-truck project, added
£83,223 net to fixed assets:
Paid capital— 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref. . . £BO,OOO £BO,OOO £BO,OOO £BO,OOO
Ord. . . 170,000 170,000 520,000 780,000
Overdraft. . . 209,250 341,357 664,264 883,885
Creditors . . 180,047 211,113 534,135 364,672
Tax provision 25,481 46,394 99,282 171,632
Final div. . . 10,800 11,650 28,300 38,700
Freeholds . . 82,648 86,985 216,457 "252,584
Office equipm’t 3',925 7,289 23,749 22,589
Plant, etc. . . 55,850 72,821 197,063 245,369
Shares subsid. 55,000 55,000 55,000 55,000
Stocks . . 487,596 699,461 1,336,340 1,540,637
Book debts, etc. 92,215 89,681 309,351 413,809
Cash, etc. .. 479 995 744 502
Stocks increased by £204,297- net and
book-debts by £104,458. To do all this
and reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £169,463 the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £219,621 and share-
holders put up £325,000. The position
will Iqok more attractive when stocks
can be worked down and the outside debt
reduced.
Although public-works expenditure will
be on a reduced scale during the current
term, a number of new and unfinished
Government ventures await completion
when enough loan money can be raised
for the purpose. Meanwhile much will
depend upon how the fork-truck project
and potential export trade turn out.
At 255. 6d, (50s. early in 1952) the
ords. return 7.8 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c.
distribution continues, or 6.2 p.c. should
the div. drop to 8 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 255. sd. The prefs, seldom come
onto the market.
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.
r D i vs. —;
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Sale assets, £BB2 .. ~1
W/off prelim, exes., £13,756.. }• 25,564 25,564
’48.. 84,163 10,725 7 p.c. =35,000 J
Sale assets, £7874 . . . . . . 33,438
Unexplained addition, £7334 .. .. 40,772
’49.. 92,833 15,000 8 p.e. =40,000 37,833 78,605
Sale assets, £3980 .. .. .. 82.585
Unexplained addition, £2Bll .. .. 85,396
’50..168,019 15,000 10 p.c. =50,000 103,019 188,415
To staff fund, £5OOO 183.415
i Share premiums, £24,000 .. .. 207,415
Unexplained addition, £7626 .. .. 215,041
’51..108,679 16,250 10 p.c. =55,841 36,589 251,630
To staff fund, £5OOO 246,630
Sale assets, £101,422 348,052
Share expenses, £BOOO .. .. .. 340,052
Unexplained addition, £1568 .. .. 341,620
’52..116,113 30,000 10 p.c. =82,925 3,188 344,808
To staff fund, £5OOO 339,808
* Subject to intangibles, now £47,877.
The four main sections of this co.’s
activities, which spread throughout Vic-
toria, N. S. Wales, South Australia and
Tasmania, are: (1) Importation and dis-
tribution of petroleum products ; (2) an
export-import department, which handles
primary and manufactured products and
trades mainly with U.K., Europe, Middle
East and Southern Asia; (3) a merchan-
dising section which handles the co.’s
own and some agency lines; (4) a ship-
ping department which acts as general
agents and brokers for the chartering and
purchase of tonnage.
Since the present co. took over and
the public became interested in 1947 the
story has been one of rapid expansion.
In the marketing of petroleum products
this means heavy capital outlay on sea-
board terminals and city and country
distribution facilities, including kerbside
electric pumps, as well as carrying more
stocks and book-debts. For these and
other purposes, including purchase of a
12,600-ton tanker, £848,000 has been
added to issued capital and £1,693,330
to the outside debts over the last couple
of years.
Here is the picture as the published
accounts show it;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital . . 800,000 800,000 1,275,165 1,647,049
Bank overdraft 152,806 35,300 1,210,583
Creditors . . 378,727 1,000,136 1,241,950 1,380,883
Mortgages . . 98,000 102,000
Tax provision. . 95,000 122,939 144,446 249,214
Final divs. . . 47,500 57,500 64.591 97,925
Staff funds . . 5,000 10,000 15,000
Freeholds . . 83,370 238,869 295,919 437,933
Leaseholds . . 36,212 41,934 50,365 92,000
Plant and equip-
ment .'. 383,236 548,542 966,644 1,380,652
Shares .. 2,751 2.751 2,751 20,450
Stock . . 701.278 897,147 984,933 1,739,433
Debtors . . 289,022 374,457 740.552 1,312,070
Cash . . . . 8,892 17,413 19,041 12,046
Intangibles .. 47,877 47,877 55,877 47,877
To meet last term’s net outlay of
£1,941,374 on fixed assets (up £597,657),
stocks (up £754,500), book-debts (up
£571,518) and shares in other cos. (up
£17,699), the board went to its bankers
for an extra £1,175,283 and increased the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£138,933. Shareholders put up £371,884
of fresh capital (balance of a par issue
in May, 1950) and sale of assets turned
in a profit of £lol,422—the Government
resumed the co.’s bulk terminal near
Kingsford Smith airport (Sydney) and a
more convenient freehold, on which two
large storage-tanks are being erected, was
bought on the shores of Botany Bay.
When the books closed there was 275. Id.
belonging to the bank, sundry creditors
and mortgagees in the business for every
pound of shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined). The overdraft has
since been reduced by a “substantial”
amount. No hint is given as to whether
shareholders are likely to be asked for
more, or whether other fixed capital is
likely to be introduced.
Last term there was another marked
increase in sales of petroleum and by-
products. But profit-margins progres-
sively diminished, owing to the growing
pressure of landed and distributing costs
against a less buoyant ceiling of officialiv-
controiled selling-prices. Satisfactory net


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
. SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Professional
PROFESSIONAL ENGAGEMENTS.
ASSISTANT POWER STATION SUPER-
INTENDENT WANTED, preferably 30 to
40 years of age, for a diesel power
station in Fiji, of 5,000 kw capacity
Must be experienced in the running and
maintenance of large diesel electric and
diesel air compressing plant; a sound
knowledge of electricity is desirable.
Fares paid. Successful applicant will be
entitled to liberal holidays and be ex-
pected to join staff superannuation scheme.
House available at small rental for mar-
ried man or staff quarters and mess for
single man. .
Salary at the rate of £lOOO Fijian cur-
rency per annum ( £AIOO equal to
£F88), plus cost-of-living bonus £FIO4
per annum. . , , ,
Applications accompanied by references
and details of experience to
DIESEL,
O/o Mercantile Exchange,
880 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
For Sale
“ MACHINERY.
ALTERNATOR FOR SALE. —Used 27.5
KVA 230/400 volt 3 phase 50 cycle
Lister Diesel Generating Set, complete
rVith all fittings, spares and switchboard
incorporating automatic voltage regulator,
in excellent condition. Suitable for stand-
by or farm supply. Available for in-
spection and demonstration. Offer invited.
—-STANGER & CO., LTD., 194 Miller
Street, West Preston, Victoria. JJ 1207.
returns were won from the im-
port-export and other merchan-
dising and shipping sections,
despite a sharp fall in the volume
of business during the second
half of the term.
After allowing for deprecia-
tion (£123,370, up £48,585) and
taxation (£135,000, up £35,000),
the net return from all sources
was put at £116,113 (up £7434).
The pref. div. called for £30,000,
and the balance was equal to
10.4 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 16.5, 30.6, 15.5 and
13.8 p.c. back to 1948. Still, the
10 p.c. distribution, of which 2
p.c. is labelled bonus, was re-
peated, which might be taken to
mean that the board is satisfied
with the outlook.
The new tanker, to be taken
over by a subsidiary, is expected
to be in commission and con-
tributing to the pool early in
1953, and the new terminal at
Botany Bay (N.S.W.) is sche-
duled to be in operation by
April next. Also, in October
last, the selling-price of petrol
was increased by Id. a gallon,
making it 3s. a gallon at city
pumps, and there were lifts in
selling-prices of lubricating oils,
kerosene, etc., too. For some
months previously the whole-
saler was trading at virtually no
profit in these lines. Competi-
tion in the trade is keen, and
promises to become keener still
when the Shell, Vacuum, Anglo-
Iranian and Caltex cos. step-up
capacity of their local refineries.
At 255. 2d. the ords. return
7.9 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c.
distribution continues, or 6.4
p.c. should the div. drop to 8
p.c. The 5 p.c. prefs. at 16s.
yield 6.2 p.c. Net tangible cover
is 645. Bd. prefs. and 255. 7d.
ords.
Mount Lyell (Tas.)
Written
Sept., Profit.* Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
' ’46.. 87,222 Nil 32,987 1,748,685
Removal o’burden, £9068.. 1,739,617
’47.. 156,791 5 77,500 38,972 1,779,936
Removal o’burden, £33,846.. 1,746,090
’48.. 140,155 5 77,500 34,320 1,774,425
Removal o’burden, £28,931.. 1,745,494
’49.. 127,989 5 77,500 27,570 1,768,413
Share-issue exes., £19,375.. 1,749,038
’50.. 136,964 5 83,958 41,456 1,760,588
’51.. 259,047 6j 145,318 63,221 1,811,101
Intangibles disap’r, £78,958 1,890,059
From copper pool, £106,078 1,996,137
•’52.. 301,584 7i 174,375 69,110 2,054,186
* Includes allowances for depreciation,
etc., then shown as written off.
Once a high-grade and then a
medium-grade producer, the
co. was faced, about 10 years
ago, with a large tonnage
of low-grade ore that could
be treated profitably only
by large-scale throughput and
a judicious handling of over-
burden. And it is only now that
shareholders are beginning to
reap the benefit of the board’s
carefully-planned and vigorous
attack upon the many problems
involved.
Since 1944 dividends have
come wholly or mainly out of
returns from investments. The
relatively poor showing from the
mine has been due to the fall in
grade, steep rise in costs, in-
adequate and irregular supplies
of coke for the smelter and
delays in delivery of equipment
for mechanisation of the open-
cut and extension of the fine-
grinding section of the mill.
A few years ago the manage-
ment planned to lift copper out-
put to 10,000 tons p.a. by the
close of accounts in 1953, and
looks like achieving the target
on schedule. To help meet
capital outlay involved,
£1,505,000 was raised during the
1950 term —£750,000 on a five-
year loan at 4i p.c. and £755,000
by a par issue of ords. to share-
holders.
Last term more equipment was
at work, but ore production was
restricted in favor of overburden
removal. The latter totalled
1,204,045 tons (up 155,232 tons),
and ore 1,403,856 tons (down
60,769 tons). The 30,201 tons
(down 4018 tons) of resultant
concentrates contained 7036 tons
(down 908 tons) of recoverable
copper. However, owing to a
better supply of coke, the smelter
was able to handle 38,929 tons
(up 9117 tons) concentrates for
the following results:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Blister (tons). . 8,072 7,044 9,123
Contents —
Copper (tons) 8,009 6,990 9,048
Silver (0z.).. 27,851 22,567 28,631
Gold (oz.) .. 5,326 4,277 5,069
In addition 53,935 tons (down
1690 tons) pyritic concentrates,
assaying 49.3 p.c. sulphur, were
turned out, and deliveries to
consumers were better still,
£hanks to more shipping-space
becoming available.
More important was the rise
in price of the red metal paid to
Australian producers. The aver-
age last term was about £290 a
ton as against an average of
approximately £240 for the
previous year. Also the Govern-
ment’s proposal for a stabilisa-
tion pool was abandoned, and
the co. received £106,078 on
account of the previous year’s
contributions. Further, the price
of the metal rose from £285 to
£350 per ton as from August 25
last.
Sales of metals, etc., brought
in an extra £1,253,657, and a
further £24,716 was received in
divs., mainly from fertiliser and
metal fabricating interests, mak-
ing the increase in total income
£1,278,373:
Income— 1951. 1952.
Copper, etc. . . £1,818,510 £3,072,167*
Dividends . . 140,652 165,368
Total . . £1,959,162 £3,237.535
Exes. —
Mining .. 809,226 1,461,267
Refining, smelting 722,226 1,247,557
Development, de-
preciation . . 63,221 69,110
Administra’ion, etc. 168,660 225,177
Total . . £1,763,333 £3,0.05,111
Net profit . . 195,829 232,424
* Excludes £106,078 received from copper
pool.
Including tax provision
(£110,125, up £40,125), exes,
gobbled all but £36,595 of the
big increase in income. Dis-
regarding the tax on dividends,
the year’s net return on mining
was only £67,056 (up £11,879).
The £232,424 of profit was
approximately 10 p.c. on capital
as against 8.4, 5.7, 6.4 and 6.8 p.c.
back to 1948. That excluded the
£106,078 for the copper pool
already referred to. The div. was
lifted from 6\ p.c. to 1\ p.c., and
£lOO,OOO was earmarked for new
plant expenditure during the
current term.
Ore reserves were put at 28.45
million tons, averaging 0.73 p.c.
copper, 0.050 z. silver and
O.OOSoz. gold. Drilling and other
exploration have not yet dis-
closed anything of importance.
The net improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus was
£96,510:
1951. 1952.
Metals ~ •• 314,407 £!,410,841
Book debts •• 87,012 98,1-9
Stores, etc. • • 751,617 1>0?6’374
Shares other cos... 2,540,835 2,557,/01
Total • ■ £4,693,871 £5,103,045
Liabilities* •• 2,047,618 2,360,282
Liquid surplus" .. £2,646,253 £2,742,763
* Includes a five-year loan of £750,000.
That was after adding £175,628
net to the book-value of fixed
assets (£1,810,789).
The August lift in the price of
the metal, improved coke-supply,
better production following addi-
tions to equipment, etc., and
steadier tendency in costs all
augur well for a better showing
at next balance. Nominal capital
has been doubled, making it
£5,000,000, by creation of
2,500,000 new £1 shares; but no
hint is given as to when share-
holders are likely to be asked for
more. The two big imponder-
ables are the future price of the
metal and of costs.
The market notes the size of
the overdraft (£1,370,075) and
secured loan (£750,000), together
£2,120,075, and prices the shares
at 20s. 6d. (245. 6d. early in
1952) to return 7.2 p.c. on a
1\ p.c. div. basis.
Tongkah Harbor Tin
For the year to June 30 last
the co. netted £68,755 (down
£194,663), or 35.9 p.c. on capital
(£191,000 in ss. shares) as against
137.5 p.c. for the previous term.
After deduction of Malayan
tax (30 p.c.) the net sterling rate
of div. was 31.6 p.c., as against
35 p.c. for 1951, equal to 39.5
р. and 43.7 p.c., respectively,
in Australian currency.
The sharp drop in earnings
was due to the fall in the price
of tin, lower-grade ground and
higher costs. Here are com-
bined operating figures, etc.,
for the co.’s two dredges, one
at Bidor (Malaya) and the other
at Bhuket Island (Thailand):
1951. 1952.
Treated, c.y. (’006). . 2087 3205
Tin ore, tons .. 957.7 551.8
T.o. per c.y., lb. .. 0.72 0.38
Raw gold, oz. . . 1135.1 316.7
A.V. price tin* . . £81023.1 £8910.8
* Per ton metallic tin.
The tin-ore contained 402.36
tons metallic tin, and all-in costs
rose from Is. lid. to 2s. Bd.
per cubic yard.
The Bidor ground is just about
worked out, and the dredge has
re-entered an area held under
sub-lease from Ampat Tin,
where there is about nine months’
work ahead. The quantity of
payable ground at Tongkah
Harbor is uncertain, because of
silting, and the leases are being
re-examined. At Bang Tao Bay
check-boring showed 28,050,000
с. of 0.501 b. ground, and there
is an estimated 13,319,000 c.y.
of 0.391 b. stuff at Chelong. Bay
—both these sea areas are within
easy reach of Tongkah Harbor.
The Ronpibon section remains
on a care-and-maintenance basis,
pending rehabilitation of the
dredge and its conversion from
steam to diesel-electric power.
In 1941 there was some 33
million c.y. of 0.441 b. ground
here.
During the year £50,810 (75
p.c.) was received on account of
the co.’s war-damage claims, etc.,
leaving £16,951 to come. When
the books closed current assets
totalled £654,591, of which
£559,326 was cash. Current
liabilities amounted to £154,267,
and rehabilitation loan £10,170
(£69,482 at previous balance).
For the first four months of
the current term the co. pro-
duced 283.25 tons of tin ore, and
a Is. 3d. (stg.) div. was sent out
on Oct. 8. Since June last the
London spot price of tin has
fluctuated within the £S97O-
- bracket. Last week the
figure stood at £S94B ss. The
co.’s scrip has a fairly steady
market (Sydney) around 17s.
T. & G.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
SPLENDID PROGRESS
At the 76th Annual Meeting held on Tuesday, 23rd
December, at the Society’s Head Office, the Chairman,
Mr. J. T. Thompson, said:—
New Business
“I am pleased to announce that
the Society’s steady progress has been
maintained. New Business completed
in the Life Departments comprising
115,326 policies assuring £36,891,341
exceeded the previous year’s aggregate
by £3,005,658. In the Accident
Department, 15,998 policies were
issued, and accident benefits assuring
£10,483,968 were added to 28,318 life
policies. This business was all derived
from Australia and New Zealand.
Completions in the Group Assur-
ance Department exceeded any pre-
viously recorded figures, and repre-
sented an even greater percentage of
the New Business in the Ordinary
Department than in past years. This
distinctive success is largely attribut-
able to the splendid services rendered
by the trained personnel of the De-
partment. Group Assurance enables
employers to make provision for Life
Assurance and Superannuation for
the benefit of empoyees. No matter
how much goodwill exists the rela-
tionship between employer and em-
ployee is always strengthened by the
establishment of a satisfactory Super-
annuation Scheme. In planning for
Staff Superannuation employers may
be assured of the assistance and ready
co-operation of the Society’s Officers
who are well qualified through long
experience to give guidance in this
specialised class of business.
Value of Assurance to
Community
Life Assurance is now recognised
as one of the major forces in stem-
ming the tide of inflation so that any
substantial expansion of the business
is of especial value to the National
economy. Under each new policy the
policyholder has voluntarily under-
taken to pay a regular periodic sum
until the policy is terminated, usually
by death or maturity. This method
of saving has more of the character
of permanency than many other forms
of saving and these additional con-
tracts enlarge the scope of the
Society’s valuable service to the com-
munity.
Total payments to policyholders
and beneficiaries during the year were
£5,689,204 compared with £3,094,033
in 1942, the aggregate in the last
decade exceeding £41,000,000.
The Income amounted to
£14,766,509, an increase for the year
of £1,262,673. The total comprised
£11,952,372 from premiums and
£2,814,137 from interest.
Expenses have increased in all De-
partments. The expense rate compar-
ing total expenses, excluding taxes,
with total income, increased from
13.57% to 14.22% in the Ordinary
Department and from 26.96% to
29.23% in the Industrial Department.
The increases in management expenses
were largely due to higher wage
awards and increased cost of com-
modities, factors beyond our control,
but such steps as are practicable are
being taken to reduce expenses to the
lowest possible level consistent with
efficiency. Office systems are con-
tinually under surveillance and recently
plans were completed for extensive
mechanisation on a scale greater than
anything previously contemplated.
Assurance Funds
The Funds increased by £5,690,839
to £80,161,207. This being a Mutual
Society, the Funds are accumulated
for the benefit of policyholders only
and to meet all claims under policies
as they fall due. These savings having
been effected for the protection of
policyholders and their families your
Directors are determined that the
Funds shall be invested with absolute
safety in securities of the highest
grade.
At the close of the year the amount
invested in Government Securities in
Australia and New Zealand exceeded
the previous year’s total by £661,460.
The total invested in Government,
Municipal and other public securities
is £61,477,183, more than 73% of the
total Assets. Investments in mort-
gages increased to £13,055,997, the
Society having assisted many policy-
holders to acquire their own homes.
Company First Mortgage Debentures
increased to £1,735,061. The book
value of the Society’s premises is
£3,792,045, which is greatly below
market value and very much below
replacement value. The Society’s
investment position is very sound
indeed. All securities have been
selected with a view to full protec-
tion of the capital sum invested, which
your Board regards as the paramount
consideration. Improving rates of
interest were obtainable on new in-
vestments during the year, and the
effect of this will soon become notice-
able. The interest rate on the mean
Assurance Funds was £3/14/1%. This
rate was influenced by reduced net
rents from tenants of the Society’s
buildings. Tenancies are largely sub-
ject to rent control and rents author-
ised are generally inadequate for the
space provided and services rendered.
Whatever may be said in favour of
control of house rents there does
not seem to be any good reason for
the continuance of rent control of
commercial and business premises.
Actuaries’ Report
The Actuaries’ Report shows the
conservative bases on which the valua-
tion of liabilities has been made. Of
the surplus of £1,440,042 in the Life
Department, £1,342,680 has been
allocated for Reversionary Bonuses
and other benefits. The allotments
provide for slightly lower Bonus
Scales than for the previous year.
The Accident Department continues
to make steady progress, the premium
income increasing by £36,013 to
£364,448. A recent development is
the provision of Personal Accident
and Sickness benefits under schemes of
Group Insurance. Another interesting
feature is that many employers have
covered their key personnel so that
claim moneys will be available during
periods of absence from work due to
Accident or Sickness. Many policy-
holders in the Life Department have
taken advantage of the facilities avail-
able to them by adding to their
policies valuable additional benefits in
the Accident Department.
Progress under Mutual
System
Since 1942 the Society’s Income
has increased from £7,107,335 to
£14,766,509, the Assets from
£39,517,038 to £83,951,323, and the
Assurances in Force from £105,584,957
to £257,015,528. This expansion is a
clear demonstration of the faith of
the people in the Mutual system, as
well as confidence in the Society’s
ability to fulfil its obligations under
Policy contracts. A vast institution
has been built on the voluntary
system, by means of which a very
large number of people make provi-
sion for financial security in their old
age and for necessary family protec-
tion against the uncertainties of life.
Policyholders should be well pleased
with the results disclosed in the
Report and with the Society’s finan-
cial position, which is one of un-
doubted strength and stability.
Staff
In conclusion I wish to pay a special
tribute to the splendid services ren-
dered by the Staffs. The record
volume of New Business reflects very
great credit on the Field Staff while
the Indoor Staff carried out with
efficiency the heavy tasks imposed
upon them. On behalf of the Board
and myself, I should like to express
. to all members of the Society’s Staffs
sincere appreciation of their loyal
and valuable services.”
Retiring Directors, Messrs. H. G.
Brain and H. W. Buckley, and retiring
Auditors, Messrs. J. M. F. Relph and
W. M. Scott, were re-elected.


Women's Letters
sriDNcy
As 1953 is even now knocking at the
door and will be with us any moment, let
us take a quick look back at the social
activities of 1952 lest they slip away from
our memories and be lost.
☆ ☆ ☆
Generally speaking, it was not quite
so gay a year as peace and prosperity
should warrant. The death of the King
and the postponement of the Royal visit
naturally threw a shadow on the early
months of the year, but the message from
the young Queen did something to re-
vive and stimulate spirits inclined to
sink.
☆ ☆ ☆
Of the big dances held during the year
perhaps the most glamorous was the In-
ternational Ball, the official party of
which was as glittering and as brilliant
as has been seen. “The Naughty Nine-
ties” again hit the highest spot for gaiety
(excluding, of course, the Artists’ Ball,
which cannot be compared with anything
else). At “The Naughty Nineties” the
floor-show didn’t come up to that of the
previous year, but it was undoubtedly
the most comfortable ball from the point
of accommodation, and also the funniest.
For pageantry the Royal Empire Society
Ball was unrivalled. Most outstanding
decorations were seen at the Black and
White Bali, where the dressing was also
very beautiful. For the younger set the
Bon Bon Ball at Prince’s seemed the
prettiest. Most amusing decorations were
at the Medical Ball, where students im-
personated skeletons. The Lady
Mayoress’s Ball, the Dragon Festival, the
Law Ball and the Opera Ball were all
memorable for a happy atmosphere and
good organisation. On the whole the
dances throughout the year were of a high
standard.
# tj- #
For the theatre the gayest first night
was for “Kiss Me Kate” and the most
memorable season that of the operas.
Next to the brilliance of the production
and the singing (Marie Collier and Betty
Fretwell remain in the memory as “dis-
coveries”) the most heartening thing about
it is that it paid its way. It will be
something to be seen again this year.
V # #
For brilliance of spectacle there was
nothing to touch the Centenary Celebra-
tions at the University, when the splendor
of medieval times seemed to come to life
again without reminding one of its less-
pleasant aspects. At the Lord Mayor’s
reception and at the various ceremonies
at the University the professors wore their
academic dress and, as the Vice-Chan-
cellor of the University of Edinburgh
said, “Seldom was one privileged to
witness an assembly at once so decora-
tive and so respectable.”
☆ ☆ ☆
The concert platform brought us some
fine performers during the year; Walter
Gieseking, Elena Nikolaidi, young
Badura-Skoda, Michael Rabin, John
Brownlee, Dorothy Maynor. Perhaps the
most promising of our own young singers
is Marjorie Conley, who won the vocal
section of the A.B.C. Vocal and Con-
certo contest and who will be heard in
the next opera season.
# V #
Of the art exhibitions seen during the
year the most refreshing was the Indian
Exhibition held at the Department of
Education Gallery. It was most
arrestingly vivid and stimulating. The
most instantaneously successful seemed to
be the exhibition of the Aranda Group of
aboriginal artists at Anthony Horderns’
Gallery. Although rather insipid and
lacking in originality, the pictures were
nearly all sold within a few hours.
Society flocked to Francis Lymburner’s
exhibition, which was what could be
called “the best-dressed.” The private
collection shown at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries was one of the most charming.
# V V
Fashion highlights from 1952 showed
black and anthracite-grey as favorite
“colors” —a grey suit and a small white
hat was something no woman could do
without. Frilly petticoats were worn by
the young, as were strip-toe sandals and
nylon mesh shoes. Embroidered Swiss
organdie, Everglaze cotton, pure silk
shantung, chiffon shantung and tie-silk
were the favorite materials. Other points
were gloves for the evening, heraldic
emblems, stoles, long-handled umbrellas
and nylon shirts for men.
# # tf
Fhe most interesting exhibition from
this Letter’s point of view showed the
period dresses from the collection of
Imogen Wyse at David Jones’s Gallery.
This showed dresses and accessories from
as far back as the 18th century to the
present day in beautiful condition and
well displayed. It was a delight to see.
* # V if-
Mannequin-parades were plentiful
(indeed, they were put on at every kind of
entertainment, often quite inappropri-
ately). There were, however, few out-
standing ones. Perhaps the most striking
was the “Encore a Paris” at the A.C.I.
Ballroom. The beach clothes seen at the
Winkles and Champagne party were also
notable, as were, too, some of the clothes
from the “American in Paris” show early
in the year.
# if.
Attractive American Deborah Potter,
who arrived in Sydney a month or so
back' with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Kennett Potter, of Elizabeth Bay, is doing
an Arts Course at the University while
she is here. Mr. Potter is Chief Executive
Officer of the United States Consulate
while Mr. Donald Smith is away.' Photo
by Hugh Spencer.
The price of tickets for functions
suffered somewhat from inflation. Few
dance tickets were less than 255. each—
many were £2 10s. (for a single ticket).
Functions on liners —cocktail-parties-,
mannequin-parades, dinner-dances all
came at luxury prices. Still, people
seemed to enjoy them and thought they
got their money’s worth, so that’s all
that matters, especially as charities always
benefited.
☆ * *
During the year conspicuous interest
was shown in any exhibition to do with
homes or home-making. The Harry
Seidler design that won the Sulman prize
with its flat roof and praying-mantis out-
line, yet introduced many people to the
new use of color, light and air in the
design of homes. More modern furni-
ture was shown in the department stores
during the year and the demand for it
increased considerably.
» ☆ ☆
Of the women who hit the headlines
during the year Marjorie Jackson stands
alone (even if she did drop her baton).
Matron Shaw, who retired from Crown-
street Women’s Hospital, after having
been one of Sydney’s most notable
members of the nursing profession, was
warmly “farewelled” by Sydney people.
The death of Sister Kenny robbed Aus-
tralia of a woman of sincerity, drive and
initiative.
& V #
In spite of all the parties, concerts,
receptions, dances, etc., organised for
public or private reasons, the most con-
sistent and popular source of entertain-
ment during the year was the Liquor
Commission!
# # #
A wedding of interest to many people
in N.S.W. and Queensland was celebrated
on December 13 when Dr. June Fisher
and Dr. Elliott Masters were married
at the Armidale School Chapel.
Bishop J. S. Moyes officiated., assisted
by the school chaplain, the Rev.
Mark Robinson. June, who is the only
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Gordon Fisher,
of T.A.S., Armidale, was attended by-
Mrs. Sandy Watt, of Tenterfieid, and Dr.
Ruth Maegraith, of Griffith. Elliott is
the only son of Mr. and Mrs. Harold
Masters, of Sydney. Best man was Dr,
Richard Vance and groomsman Dr,
Richard Keatinge, both of Sydney. Re-
ception was held at the Headmaster’s
Lodge.
☆ ☆ ☆
Looking forward to 1953, the most
heartening thing one sees is the Corona-
tion of Queen Elizabeth 11, even though
this should mean the desertion of Sydney
by most of the socialites. The youth
and freshness of her Majesty are a tonic
to flagging spirits, her family life a con-
tinual reminder that the basically happy
things of life are still ours.
MELBOURNE
Christmas wrappings and tinsel have
been discarded, but until Twelfth Night
the greeting-cards will be well on view.
This year the Lord Mayor’s card of
greeting was plain ; the city’s crest was
its only note of color. A view of Collins-
street formed the frontispiece of the
Hon. P. L. Coleman and Mrs. Coleman’s
card. Sir Leslie McConnan, his wife and
daughter sent out cards which featured
a reproduction of Hans Heysen’s “After-
noon of a Summer Day.” U.S. Consul-
General Henry Stebbins and Mrs.
Stebbins used a view of the Blue Moun-
tains for their greetings, and a Chinese
scene (the original was painted by Mrs.
Liu) formed the illustration on the card
sent out by the Chinese Consul, F. W.
Liu, and Mrs. Liu. A typical Australian
bush scene in color came on the card
from Lady Disney, and a picture of a
giraffe sheltering on the veldt came from
Lady Bruntisfield, now in Kenya.
Cr. and Mrs. Gordon Coulter’s greet-
ings were sent on a card-which showed
the front entrance to their Toorak home,
with a colorful scene of the garden sloping
down to the river. Walter and Mary
Ebstein, wearing clothes of the Gay
’Nineties, had pictures taken of them-
selves and children in old-fashioned
surroundings, and sent them out in the
form of a Family Album. Friends
received a photograph of Mr. and Mrs.
Lionel Newton in their greeting-card.
Jill, only daughter, of Air-Vice-Marshal
and Mrs. F. W. Scherger, was educated
at Melbourne Church of England Girls’
Grammar School, went on to the Mel-
bourne Technical School to study art, and
then commenced a career of dress-
designing. When her father was appointed
to the Australian Legation in Washington
Jill went with her parents, and while
there took a job as fashion co-ordinator
in the store of Julius Garfinckel and Co.
She has been back in this city on a short
visit and is now in Singapore, where her
parents will be for the next two years.
Swimming and car-racing are Jill’s
favorite hobbies. John Warlow photo.
V V V
First function to be held in the
recently-acquired English Speaking
Union’s clubrooms in South Yarra was
the Younger Set’s Christmas-party, at
which over 200 attended. For the tradi-
tional quaffing of mulled punch guests
moved out to the garden, and after that
the president of the Younger Set, Geoffrey
Ingram, presented popular E.S.U. secre-
tary Mrs. Graham Egerton with a gift
from his committee. Marguerite Weir,
wearing a pretty pastel-printed white
chiffon ballerina frock, assisted Geoffrey
receive the guests with Mrs. Graham
Egerton, whose frock was of dove-grey
chiffon.
Mrs. William Dobbinson and Yvonne
Duncan, the latter attractive in a grey
shot-taffeta ballerina frock, were other
members of the committee giving a help-
ing hand with the supper. Rosemary
Gibbs, whose choice was red-and-black-
check taffeta with pleatings of blac
taffeta at each side of the full skirt anc
hem, was among the guests, who also in
eluded Clarissa Starey, Val Bodycoml
Patric and Yvonne Whittam, Winsom
Dane, Valerie Cheney and Pat Heath.
# V #
At the Christmas-party given by Mr
and Mrs. John Casson the hostess wor
a draped frock of grey silk patterned i
a black leaf design. She had the assis
ance of daughters Penelope and Jane an
son Anthony.
Among “droppers-in” at the party
were Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. E
Hewitt, Brigadier and Mrs. Harry Bun
dock, she in a pale-blue frock with larg
blue straw hat which had white flower
set under the brim, Mrs. Frank Tait,
a finely-pleated black silk frock and an
emerald-green hat and accessories, Mrs
David Syme, whose frock was a green
and-gold shot-taffeta, Dr. and Mrs. H.
Stokes (they leave early next year wit!
their children for a trip overseas), the
Frank Hobill-Coles, Mr. and Mrs. John
Tait, Mrs. F. W. Thring and Mr. Charle
Dearden.
☆ ☆ ☆
The children’s Christmas-party which
is an annual highlight at Claridge’s wa
a riot. Over 120 children enjoyed the
fancy Walt Disney candles, party paper
caps, the juggler and his monkey assist
ants, and, of course, a visit from a very
generous Father Christmas. Brown-eyec
Glennis Cornish was with her grand
mother, Mrs. T. Crisp; Mrs. J. D. Linton
brought not only her own daughters, Mary
Lou and Sally, but the Frank Taits’ pair
Isla and Anne. Commander and Mrs
R. Macklin had their two daughters
Patty and Sally, and son Bobby in their
family party, Leveda Lynch and Russel
Barrett were with Mrs. Norman Lynch
whilst Mrs. Jack Lynch brought her two
daughters, Robyn and D«nice, the Arthur
Sayers brought Graham, David, Andrew
and Jonathan. Diana Nicholls was with
her parents, Mr. and Mrs, Frank Nicholls
☆ ☆ ☆
Well-known hostesses who are holiday-
ing are Lady Disney, who spent Christmas
with her son and daughter-in-law, Mr.
and Mrs. Alec Hay, and is now in Hol-
brook (N.S.W.); Mrs. Dick Noone, with
her daughter Anne, had Christmas dinner
with Mrs. Noone’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Head, and then went on to Morning-
ton for a few weeks; Sir Edmund and
Lady Herring, with their daughter Mar-
garet, will go to their house at Barwon
Heads for a few weeks. On Boxing Day
the Vice-Chancellor of the University,
Prof. G. W. Paton, with Mrs. Paton and
their children Jeannine, Heather, Elspeth
and Frank, left for a holiday at Anglesea,
and Mrs. Jean Davies and her daughter
Shirley are now installed at Peterborough.
The Norman Lynches, with daughter
Leveda, go to Portsea, to be with their
son Peter, his wife and children.
# #
The National Theatre Coronation Arts
Festival begins with a season of ballet on
January 31. Valrene Tweedie has been
appointed directress of the N.T. Ballet,
and as well as directing it Valrene will
dance in “Aurora’s Wedding” in the open-
ing programme. Before she went away at
the age of 15 Valrene lived in Sydney, and
in the 12 years she was abroad spent some
years in Cuba, where she taught ballet
for the Pro-Arte Musical Society in
Havana. Her early training was with
Leon Kellaway ; she danced here and in
America with the Colonel de Basil Com-
pany, and later joined the Ballet Russe
de Monte Carlo in New York,
In the Tivoli pantomime, “Cinderella,”
Gloria Dawn was a very pretty
Cinderfella, Babs MacKinnon a swag-
gering and handsome Prince Charm-
ing, Jim Gerald a rather subdued
bad stepmother, and Tommy Trinder
shone as Buttons this was the
role Tommy played in the London
Palladium production. It is an excellent
show, the costumes beautiful, the scenes
colorful—one in which the tiny dancers,
garbed in pink hunting-coats, white ; satin
shorts and black velvet caps and riding
on hobby-horses was charming. Among
firstnighters were Alice Wyatt, who took
Leveda Lynch along ; the Royden Honey-
mans, Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus, Mr.
and Mrs. S. Aarons, Garnet Carroll, his
wife and son John, and Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Lynch.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROYSTON JAMBS SWAIN late of
29 Loftus Street Bundeena. —TAKE
NOTICE that BETTY JOAN SWAIN has
tiled Petition No. 4135 of 1952 praying
for a Divorce from you on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years arid upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 9th day of March
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MR. JOHN SIDNEY
HEANEY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
’ SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN HALL late of 26 William Street
Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
THELMA IRENE HALL has filed Petition
No. 3753 of 1952 praying for a Divorce
from you on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 9th day of March 1953 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MR. JOHN SIDNEY HEANEY,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ELSIE MAY CHERRY late of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that VICTOR CLAUDE
MORRISON CHERRY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4419 of 1952 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 25th day of March
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MERVYN FINLAY
& COMPANY, Solicitors, Newlands House,
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PATRICK BEDE HANRAHAN late
of No. 2 O.A.D. Myambat near Denman
and formerly of 21 Rosewall Street Will-
oughby near Sydney both in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that VALMAI COLE HANRAHAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2671
of 1951 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by Second day of March 1953 and
obtain' a copy of the Petition without
charge from HAROLD T. MORGAN &
SONS, Solicitors, of 74 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DORIS COTTRILL formerly DORIS
ALLARD late of 95 Palace Street Peter-
sham.—TAKE NOTICE that ROBERT
WILLIAM SYDNEY COTTRILL has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4526 of 1952
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 9th March 1953 and obtain a copy
of'the Petition without charge from K. J.
KOENIG, Solicitor, of 72 Pitt Street,
Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
«i*cn
V
r
\ V \
*5
w
&
*N
r a\
u-
hj
R(M
d
&
a
j^:
<s^
V •>
r'
>:
ife.
'
..^'dd
/vYi
Rfe
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K 8.111.18
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
A Year’s Art
The year past produced the
usual crop of “modern” paint-
ings. It was no different from
the previous year’s crop, or the
crop of the year before that; and
along with the pictures there was
the usual crop of young artists
all busily engaged in copying
Matisse, or Picasso, or Modig-
liani; and, after the third or
fourth attempt, rushing their
pictures into exhibitions.
There will certainly be no
shortage of dolicocephalous
nudes and houses falling over
next year, but there is one thing
we can be pretty sure of —there
will be no improvement in the
quality of the painting, since
there has been no change in that
since the very beginnings of the
“movement.”
Some people seem to think
that the “modern” artist is im-
bued with a burning desire to
degrade the standards of pure
art and shock the public. Noth-
ing of the sort. What produces
the crop of queer freaks called
contemporary pictures, with their
ferocious subjects and clumsy
painting, is not a deliberate and
conscious endeavor on the part
of the artist to astound and
horrify the public, but a simple
lack of skill in the individual
which prevents him expressing
himself in painting.
Tire characteristic of the
great artist is his urge to ex-
press himself in terms of his sur-
roundings. Artists like Titian,
El Greco, Velasquez and Rem-
brandt painted their wives, their
mistresses, their children, their
friends and the human beings
around them. They were ex-
pressing their own feelings, so
much so that when they got com-
missions to paint madonnas,
crucifixions, saints or historical
subjects, they couldn’t help get-
ting their wives, their mistresses
and their friends in them —i.e.,
they got the subject-matter that
really interested them into their
pictures, whatever they were
doing.
Their own emotional life was
reflected in the works of all the
great artists. There is a sensual
quality in Titian’s madonnas
which one doesn’t see in
Raphael’s madonnas, who look
maternal. But if one looks at
the portraits of Titian, Rem-
brandt, El Greco and Velasquez
one doesn’t see much difference
between them except in the
matter of hats and ruffs and
other sartorial details. They all
have the same quality of obser-
vation.
It is this quality of observa-
tion that most “modern”
painters lack almost completely.
If they paint their native village
it looks like a street in Paris—
they can’t express themselves in
their surroundings and have to
go off in search of exotic subject-
matter. That probably explains
the current rage for so-called
abstract painting, most of which
is done by artists who can’t paint
an ordinary cup and saucer.
“Modern” art was a reaction
against academic painting.
Artists were sick of the dull
commonplace academic picture,
the conventional portrait, the
historical picture with its lay
figures as stiff as buckram. They
wanted to do something differ-
ent, and no wonder. Unfor-
tunately, you can’t do something
original or think of an original
idea nobody has thought of be-
fore merely by wishing to do it.
It requires an enormous amount
of apprenticeship to the tradi-
tion left by the real pastmasters
before you can do that.
The young “modern” artist
didn’t bother to try to do that.
Consequently, when he tries to
paint a bunch of flowers, or a
portrait of his wife, or his
model, it is quite ordinary and
banal. The quality of the ob-
servation is as coarse and dead
as any academician’s. When he
looks at his work he feels disap-
pointed with it, so he rushes to
elongated necks, emaciated Jews,
abstractions and horrific sub-
jects like worm-eaten skulls and
heads with three noses. He is
making the subject-matter do
yeoman service. But if you take
away the long necks and the un-
usual subject-matter from a
contemporary exhibition you are
left with something that would
not impress you if you saw it
chalked on a pavement.
So it seems that the “rqpdern”
artist is going about it in the
wrong way. It isn’t that he lacks
enthusiasm or talent. He imi-
tates Cezanne, Van Gogh and
Gauguin, but they worked by
observation to attain to what
they knew; they didn’t merely
imitate some former artist. The
“modern” artist tries to under-
stand Matisse by studying
Matisse; but an artist can’t be
understood in that way. What
Matisse did was something
native to him. It was something
within him. He saw the world
in terms of what he himself felt.
His imitators think without feel-
ing. In that they are precisely
like the academicians who paint
historical subjects they can’t feel
and nudes they believe in but
can’t feel.
F. S.
Stage and Music
Music in 1952
The year just closing brought
a steady stream of fine artists, all
but one under the A.B.C. banner.
There was only one disap-
pointment—the folk-singer Burl
Ives. He would have been a
good 15-minute vaudeville turn,
for he had a good personality
when he chose to unleash it.
Of the singers, honors were
fairly evenly divided between
Elena Nikolaidi, the Greek con-
tralto, and Dorothy Maynor, the
American negro soprano. The
former,-a beautiful woman with
a gracious manner, had a voice
of extraordinary range —reaching
when needed into dramatic-
soprano territory—and great
purity. Miss Maynor’s splendid
lyric soprano found its greatest
expression in oratorio and negro
spirituals, in which she could
step-up the emotional voltage ;
expressiveness was her forte.
Unfortunately an illness he
contracted immediately on arriv-
ing here for his tour robbed audi-
ences of the opportunity of hear-
ing the Australian tenor Ken
Neate, who has established quite
a reputation in the opera-houses
of England and the Continent.
Walter Gieseking led -the
pianistic invasion. There were
some who complained that he
appeared blase, that his playing
was “mechanical.” The
Bulletin found him not guilty
on both counts. Though ageing,
with his artistic twilight not far
ahead, he is still a fine pianist;
and his Debussy was especially
of great merit. Paul Badura-
Skoda, the young Hungarian,
proved himself to be a pianist of
great promise, and his concerto
playing was exhilarating.
Alec Templeton, the blind
British-born pianist brought out
by the Taits, was an instan-
taneous success. An entertainer
par excellence, he turned out to
be not only quite a respectable
interpreter of the classics and
the cleverist improviser Sydney
has heard in memory, but a
comedian of remarkable talent—
his one-man opera skits and his
versions of various “groaners”
remain a joyful memory.
Michael Rabin came, at 16,
displaying the same heavenly
gifts of tone, technique and inter-
pretation as marked the playing
here of Heifetz and Menuhin at
much the same age ; and by all
the signs he should develop as
they did, to reach the greatest
heights of violin-playing.
Melbourne was offered a real
treat —and responded commend-
ably. Gerhard Willner, a very
fine pianist now living in that
city—he is a Viennese and a
pupil of the great Schnabel —
gave the 32 Sonatas of Beeth-
oven to commemorate the 125th
anniversary of that
death. He plays the lot from
memory.
Juan Jose Castro, the South
American, was a visiting con-
ductor of great virility and keen
musical insight, and his inter-
pretation of Brahms was out-
standing.
Opera continued to make
strong headway, with the
National Opera Movements of
Victoria and N.S.W. pooling
their by-now formidable re-
sources. Artistically they
reached quite a high standard,
and the singing showed great im-
provement. Among the women
Marie Collier, Betty Fretwell
and Barbara Wilson, and the
men Ronald Dowd, Robert
Simmons, Frank Lyle, Alan
Light and Alan Co ad, were the
mainstays.
The N.S.W. Conservatorium
Opera School staged Moussorg-
sky’s “Boris Godounov” and
Gluck’s “Orpheus,” both very
well done, the Gluck work be-
ing up to professional standard.
Among the amateur efforts the
Sydney Musical Society’s pro-
duction of “Tales of Hoffman”
was the best.
♦♦♦ ❖ *l*
“Ice Follie”
On thin slivers ot polished
steel, this glittering show whirled
back into Sydney Tivoli on
Friday night to re-present an
entertainment which for high-
speed thrills, gracefulness,
mounting originality and fun
would be hard to beat anywhere.
Its creator, Armand Perren,
has let himself go to the artistic
limits in settings which range
from regions with the Aurora
Borealis as a background to the
swaying palms and grass-skirts
of Hawaii —and who cares, any-
way, if ice-ponds don’t go with
tropical surfs?
Figure-skating, such as per-
formed by Pat Gregory, Marika
Saary, Cissy Trenholm, Gerd
Bjornstad, the Dutch stilt-man
Wim de Jong, Perren himself,
the Scottish speed and stunt star
Jimmy Elder, Chribi, the Swiss
pantomimic comedian, and Joe
Whitehouse, reduces all blade-
work to a mathematical certainty
and at the same time paradoxi-
cally raises it to the poetry of
high motion.
One of the most fascinating
interludes was a badminton
match between Chribi and Elder,
taken at terrific speed, with
phenomenal recoveries by both
men. Terry Scanlon’s umpiring
of this, as with his compering
of the show, was first-rate. The
Trio Fayes, in which a gigantic
Hungarian tosses two com-
patriots about with precision and
ease, was an excellent turn.
Talkies
Current Offerings
A year which included some
remarkably good films —such as
“Cesar,” “The Browning Ver-
sion,” “The Lavender Hill Mob,”
“The River,” “Detective Story,”
“Death of a Salesman” and
“High Noon” —wound up very
poorly in Sydney with two
highly pretentious offerings fall-
ing rather fiat, and half a dozen
or so f.a.q. items just getting by.
M.-G.-M.’s much-heralded
“Quo Vadis” (Liberty) turned
out to be a great bath
of technicolor spectacle and
little else—except, perhaps,
for Peter Ustinov’s Nero —
and Fox’s lavish treatment of
Hemingway’s “The Snows of
Kilimanjaro” (Regent) included
everything except the essentials
of Hemingway’s story.
An English comedy, “Laughter
in Paradise” (Embassy), provided
the brightest note among the
end-of-the-year batch of films,
with its story of four heirs who
have to perform odd tasks before
coming in to the dough. Alis-
tair Sim, George Cole and Guy
Middleton carry it off very well.
An Edmund Gwenn comedy,
“Something for the Birds”
(Esquire), has its moments; “On
Moonlight Bay” (Mayfair), with
Doris Day and Gordon Macrae,
is pleasant enough for those
who like it swoet and senti-
mental ; Rita Hayworth makes
an undistinguished return in
“Affair in Trinidad,” a few
apes, alligators and other
beasties fail to enliven “Strange
World” (Civic), and Randolph
Scott in “Fort Worth” (Park)
and Jon Hall in “Brave
Warrior” (Capitol) add nothing
notable to the Western library.
The only thing that matters
in “Because You’re Mine” (St.
James) is Mario Lanza’s voice,
which takes up most of the time.
His robust tenor fires on all
cylinders —in fact, at times, it
seems supercharged-—but the
devices used to trot it forward
are, at times, blatant.


a GREEK STORY
by JOHN FOUNTAIN
GLYMPHADA is on the
outskirts of Athens, not
far from the Piraeus. Our
gun-park was there, amid
white square houses, olive-trees,
vegetable-gardens, quick little
barefooted boys, beautiful girls
and goats. I climbed up the rock-
ribbed hillside and watched the
farthest purple island fade into
the purple sea.
The isles of Greece. The
AEgean Sea. Words of power.
A pity we can’t stay here longer,
I thought, strolling down the
hillside in the dusk. Greece is
unique, remote and strange and
bare ; and yet familiar, too, to
us, the khaki army from Egypt,
with our slouch-hats and noisy
ways and badges of a rising sun
of bayonets. For we, too, in our
free and somewhat rude way,
were heirs of the Western world.
In a strange and rather weird
way Greece seemed to ring a bell
in the dim recesses of the mind.
We had been there a day.
QUTSIDE one of the little
w houses which had become a
restaurant overnight I saw a
group of infantrymen, and
among them the long pale face
and sloe-black eyes of Ossie
Peters, the young boxer who had
been a near-champion in his
’teens, and a broken-down pug
before he was twenty. An
inarticulate creature, Ossie, with
an unfortunate habit of becom-
ing quarrelsome in drink ; and
with only a few drinks in, Ossie,
who had fought the best men in
the welterweight division in Aus-
tralia, became quite helpless. He
had been released from
Jerusalem military prison just
before the Libyan campaign.
I was feeling hungry, but for
some reason avoided the little
houses with soldiers swarming
round them, strolling on in the
soft, half-luminous darkness;
until, at last, I saw just the sort
of place I was looking for, a
smudge of white behind a long
arm of fruit-trees. Smoke curl-
ing from the chimney and a table
standing on the grass. I was
quite close before I noticed any-
thing wrong. Then I saw the
dark khaki back of one of our
fellows, a slouch-hat, and a
flutter of white. And I heard a
woman’s voice raised in fear.
Then the man’s voice—“l’m
cornin’ in see? Mastik
compree? Git over!”
He only wanted a drink, I
imagine. But the girl wasn’t to
know that. She protested, in the
lisping, lilting, completely
fascinating Greek tongue, and
kept pushing at the broad chest
towering over her with her soft
little hands, fruitlessly. I caught
glimpse of a pale oval of a face,
parted lips, two splendid and
terrified dark eyes, wildly wide.
The man became angry and
gave her a push. “Git over, y
bitch! ” And she went spinning.
There was nothing else I could
do. “Hey, Dig!” I said. “Cut
it out.”
A snarling face twisted round
on a short and hairy neck. 1
was startled. No wonder the
girl was frightened. “Break it
down,” I said mildly. “Can’t
you see she’s scared?”
My compatriot stared at me
out of narrow, savage little grey
eyes. He had no back to his
head—just a straight line—and,
without any peculiarity of fea-
ture, he was dramatically ugly.
“Who’s goin’ to make me?”
he asked, in a voice of an
unexpected husky softness. He
walked over and knocked me
down. Just like that. I scrambled
to my feet, more surprised than
hurt, and he knocked me down
again. He was quite unscientific,
and as strong as a bull. And
this time it hurt.
6 6 goin’ on?” a
colorless voice interrupted
us.
We looked towards the house,
Snarler over his shoulder, I
from my ridiculous squat. It
was Ossie, standing beside the
girl.
“B 7S not minding their
7 business,” Snarler explained
in an aggrieved voice. Then,
sensitive to the indignity of ex-
planations, perhaps, he said:
“You off!”
Ossie’s eyebrows, black arcs of
surprise always, shot higher and
disappeared under the brim of
his slouch-hat. I was cautiously
getting to my feet. Snarler
glanced at me, but like an uneasy
wild beast he began to drift
towards this new obstacle to his
innocent pleasures, so mysteri-
ously appearing out of the
Grecian dusk.
I found my voice. “This—
galoot—trying to get—in house,”
I gasped. “Knocked me down—
twice ...”
The fact that he had knocked
me down twice seemed awfully
important. It wasn’t right. It
was like being molested by dogs,
or some inferior order of the
animal kingdom. Monkeys, per-
haps. I glanced at Snarler. He
was very hairy. Hair growing
like curly wire out of the back of
his neck, hair in his ears, tufts of
hair sprouting out of his sinister
nostrils, flared in his formidable
snarl. I hated him and was
afraid of him, and felt the
deepest chagrin. For I had
rather fancied myself as an
amateur boxer back in Australia.
And was this the result of all my
training in the big city
gymnasium where I had first
made the acquaintance of Ossie,
the rising young welter —to be
manhandled by a monkey! It
was, you understand, a sort of
psychic fear, overriding the
normal physical reactions. A
difficult thing to explain, but real
and vivid enough at the time: a
fear of the indignity of defeat.
The animal seemed confused ;
torn between a desire to finish
me off, and an equally strong
impulse to attack Ossie. It was
almost funny.
Suddenly he made up his mind
—you could see the rudimentary
mechanism at work, translated
on to the coarse tanned flesh of
his face. “Nothin’ to what I’m
goin’ to do to y’,” he promised ;
and took a step towards me.
“Hey,” said Ossie. Snarler
stopped, a prey to his conflicting
savage desires. Ossie removed
his hat and placed it carefully on
the ground beside him. Snarler’s
eyes roved wistfully towards me,
back to Ossie, and he breathed,
as it were, hesitant slaughter.
Ossie walked up to him with his
long inevitable stride and jabbed
the brutal, stupid face, once, or
perhaps twice—l couldn’t tell.
And Snarler staggered back,
astonished.
He rallied quickly, throwing
prodigious wide punches, the
breath whistling from open
mouth and hairy nostrils, his
great chest heaving. All this
danger and destruction Ossie
avoided easily, barely moving his
sleek black head. It was almost
too easy—like watching a good
shearer after one has futilely
struggled with a kicking big
crossbred wether and a throbbing
handpiece oneself —and the end
came quickly. Ossie jabbed the
snarling face, already spattered
with a mulberry pattern of
blood, ducked, hit the puffy face
again with his right, and ducked
with the momentum of the blow,
deeply, to the left.
And I thought, distinctly, as
though I were hearing a voice out
of the luminous darkness —this
is it. And so it was. In that
fraction of time Ossie curved
up like a springing bow, the full
force of his trained young body
behind a left hook, short,
smooth, nice. He had been mov-
ing in all the time.
“Nice work, Ossie,” I said,
rubbing my sore chest and look-
ing down at our stricken foe.
“That’ll learn the cow,” I said
exultantly. My huge satisfaction
seemed to demand some oddity
of language. “Regular standover
merchant,” X babbled happily.
“Gripes, Ossie, you did that
nicely! ”
Ossie said nothing, as was his
wont. He stood there, arms
hanging loosely, shapely head
bent, looking vaguely like a
statue of Apollo in his lissom
silhouette and dark unconcern.
Or so I thought, in a fumbling,
half-recognised thread of per-
ception ; although, of course, I
realised clearly enough that it
was only Ossie, Ossie Peters who
drank too much plonk in Aus-
tralia to ever be the good boxer
his early youth had promised,
who had been in boob in
Jerusalem, and who, according
to reports, had married a pretty
Polish Jewess in Tel Aviv. Good
old Ossie who had arrived in
time to save me from a
humiliating hiding.
Ossie said nothing. The dusk
had deepened, and in the soft
crepuscular light he might have
been a piece of dark stone.
“Pretty girl, that,” I said, nodding
to the girl, outlined against the
dull yellow light from inside the
cottage. Ossie turned slowly and
looked at her. She was crying
and smiling and wringing her
hands. She was,T am sure, con-
vinced that she had been rescued
from rape. And perhaps she had
been.
“Yair,” said Ossie. He walked
over and picked up his hat.
PRESENTLY, by smiles and
1 beckonings and nods, the girl
invited us into the austere in-
terior of the house. A candle
fitfully lit the white-washed
walls, the simple furniture.
An ikon flickered in the
shadows, beside a gaudy
calendar from Egypt.
“ Kalispera a voice
reverberated from the
doorway. It came from a
bearded figure, swaying
and blinking in the door-
way, somewhat the better
for drink. The girl turned,
her fine eyes flashed, and
she released a torrent of
Greek. The old man
shrugged, attempted to
speak and shrugged again.
He didn’t give a damn. The girl
shrugged, gracefully, a sort of
ballet of shoulders and swept-
down eyelashes an|l pouting red
lip. As much as to say, in that
case, neither do I, you silly old
man. The old man glanced at us,
as his grey whiskers quivered
with angry astonishment. His
wrinkled hands seesawed and the
lisping words scurried and
cavorted, tilting over each other.
“And what is this —eh—eh—
foreign soldiers —eh—when a
man goes out for a drink? What
is the meaning of this, you
shameless hussy?”
She poured scorn on him. He
retreated, abashed. Then, in an
altered key, she told him the
story, her mobile face expressing
anger, exasperation, fear, relief,
while the old fellow made
exclamatory noises. Before she
had quite finished the old man
rushed at Ossie and embraced
him with wine-sodden whiskers.
I retreated behind the table.
Then, beaming satisfaction, the
old man produced a bottle of
oozo. And the feast began.
We had garfish cooked in
olive-oil, rolls, garlic and a kind
of soup. Goat cheese and
krasee, dipped out of a kero-
sene-tin under the table. It was
a banquet.
It was a noble meal, all the
better, perhaps, for no word of
a common language between the
two pair of us. No triviality, no
tedious commonplace marred the
happy dignity of that feast. It
was plain the old gentleman and
his daughter had a high opinion
of us. To their minds we derived
from the ancient and mythical
race of paladins, created for the
purpose of relieving deserving
distress. Or, at least, Ossie was,
since he was the principal hero ;
but more krasee, more oozo,
and an occasional friendly’
beaming, as it were caressing
glance from those splendid dark
eyes, and I became tinglingly
aware that I, too, had a certain
merit. It was all superbly
intoxicating, yet as subtle as a
childhood fantasy.
We talked, of course. I
talked to Ossie, and Ossie grunted
and ate and drank. The girl
smiled and talked, her hands
fluttering. The old man dripped
wine from his beard, looking
noble and impressive and dis-
solute, like a mask of Homer
plunged into a cask, and he
waved his arms and orated: of
no common things, I swear. Of
Pericles, perhaps ; of Plato the
gadfly, stinging complacency in
the market-place ; of Xenophon
and the Thousand, or of the
superb flight of imagination and
daring that brought all Asia
crumbling in jewels and rags to
the dust before Alexander the
Great’s Greeks. Of shadowy
heroes, Achilles and Agamemnon
and crafty Odysseus; of the
glory of tragedy and poetry and
plastic art, perhaps; or of
Marathon and Salamis and
Plataea, and Leonidas and his
Spartans before Thermopylae,
combing their hair; going to
death in character; works of
art themselves.
Who can tell?
It was better so. We laughed
and nodded our hands, and were
all of us perfectly content. The
old man rumbled and thundered
and dipped his cup into the
kerosene-tin under the table.
“Krasee ?” offered the girl,
enchantingly.
A FFER the meal the three of
1 us remained at the table,
drinking oozo and mavrodaphne.
The girl, after she had cleaned
up, sat on a goatskin-rug in the
corner, in the shadows. Her bare
feet were drawn up under her
white skirt, and her slim hands
were folded on her lap. She sat
there, perfectly still, for a long
time.
She was, really, a glorious
creature. Young—about nineteen
I suppose—yet poised. Virginal,
but ripe. Small, but giving an
impression of —not size, exactly
stature. There was nothing
doll-like about her, nothing in
the least suggestive of a bouncing
little woman. I can describe her
best, I think, by analogy. A
Greek temple in daylight, the
clear light of Greece. There you
have it —a superb plastic impres-
sion, a shape balanced, human,
intensely alive ; nothing blurred
or obscure ; no trimmings. Yet
the final result is one of a haunt-
ing beauty that defies analysis.
Proportion has something to do
with it, of course. And behind
the perfect proportions there is a
fire and a perfection of the
human mind.
She was like that —one of
those rare Greek girls. They
have them in Greece, even now :
shepherds’ and fishermen’s
daughters who look like younger
sisters of Helen of Troy. But
you mustn’t expect to find them
in the next Greek shop you
patronise. Perhaps there is some-
thing in the theory the Greeks
themselves have: that the old
race survives still, in pockets,
close to the rocky soil. But it is
sufficient that she was beautiful.
So beautiful that, although she
was feminine enough—intensely
so —and, I daresay, passionate, it
was possible to take a sort of
impersonal delight in her beauty,
with no vulgar hope of posses-
sion. At least, that is how she
affected me, at an age when one
isn’t disposed to bother one’s
head about fine shades of
aesthetics or of ethics.
When, inevitably, Ossie be-
came helplessly drunk, she
helped me lay him out beside her
father, against the whitewashed
wall. I left them there, the black
hair mixed with the grey, mouths
agape, snoring.
wShe refused my drachma with
a slight proud lift of her chin, a
negation of her head, and an
unexpectedly humorous smile.
The plight quivering pout of her
lips just before she smiled was
terribly tempting, but I didn’t
kiss her. She had a dignity that
didn’t invite easy lovemaking.
Anyway, I hesitated. And
while I hesitated she turned her
head to look at the two drunks,
her face tender and grave and —
how shall I describe it —calcu-
lating. The calm calculation of
a mother looking at her child.
Composed of hopes and dreams,
no doubt, and the more intimate
maternal emotions ; but also con-
cerned with practical matters
like the proper cooking of food,
laundry and the cost of small
shoes. To a woman of that sort,
one feels instinctively, no hard-
ship, no peril or sacrifice for the
good of the child would be too
much. And it is just as certain
that, if she saw fit, she wouldn’t
hesitate to smack it.
I caught only a glimpse of this
profound expression, intercepted
it, as it were, in the shadows. I
mumbled “Kalinikti" (good-
night), and my thanks. “Kali-
nikti” she called after rne,
musically.
Outside, I remembered my
ugly countryman. But he had
disappeared as completely as any


other satyr in the darkness of
that rocky, bewitched country.
THE entire incident stayed in
my mind a long time. It was
—romantic —touched by the
mystery and formidable spell of
the land. And it had a certain
dramatic completeness.
There the scene between
hill and water in the magnetic,
crepuscular light. The Minotaur
and the girl. The Minotaur ugly
enough to provoke hisses from
an audience of white-topped
Olympus, the girl young and
lovely as the genius of the old
and beautiful place she inhabited.
Years later 1 could remember
her vividly. Brown legs under a
short white skirt. Remarkable
legs, hardy—built for scamper-
ing over stony hillsides —robust
and full-fleshed, yet symmetrical
as sonnets, tapering gently and
magnificently to slim ankles and
small naked feet, white in the wet
grass. No less magnificent
brown arms moulded into bare
shoulders and shadow. Fight-
ing the villain, slim hands frantic,
deep young bosom panting with
fear, fear electric in the big dark
eyes. An atmosphere, a scent, as
it were, of terror and male
danger and potent femininity in
the darkening, chilling evening.
Enter, from left, the clown —
myself. A brief inglorious
struggle and the clown is
ignominiously bested, evil is
triumphant.
Enter, from right, the hero-
Theseus—brave in dark khaki,
gaiters, white webbing-belt. On
his shoulders, under the curved
metal Australia’s, and on the
light pugaree of his hat the colors
of a famous infantry battalion,
one over the other, on the
oblong patch of the Sixth
Division edged in grey. A dif-
ferent Ossie, shaved and ready
and complete. Not drunk, no
longer a victim. A simple heroic
act reducing the villain to his
proper status in the animal
kingdom.
It was complete, the proper
end and justification of fisticuffs ;
not mercenary battles in smoke-
filled stadiums, not messy brawls
in wet canteens, but the rescue
of beautiful barefooted maidens
in surroundings of appropriate
poetry. It had all the mysterious
beauty of legend.
And Ossie had been sober.
That, perhaps, was the greatest
mystery of all.
But next day he was drunk.
Our desert-camouflaged trucks,
the canvas-sheathed two-pounder
guns wagging behind them, rolled
through Athens in the crisp
morning. From my cramped
corner-seat I peered out and saw
Ossie, likewise rolling, down
Stadium-street, between a pair of
rolling cobbers. His tunic was
unbuttoned, he had lost a gaiter
and his black hair was streaming
over his vacant eyes.
T HEARD of Ossie again in
-*■ Austria, after the fall of
Greece.
Walking into my barrack one
day I was hailed by George
Anzac Gallipoli Slater, from
Newcastle. “Hey,. Joe,” he
called, “come here. There’s a
bloke reckons he knows a cobber
of yours! ”
1 ducked under the hanging
feet and drying washing of that
odd, macabre, crowded place and
approached him. George's
brown eyes were shining with a
suppressed excitement, a half-
smile on his face and his skinny
tattooed arms folded across his
wiry chest—hugging himself.
George dearly loved a story, a
mystery —anything like that.
‘ Well?” I said. Any news was
good news in that Stalag.
George jerked a complacent
thumb. “Bill, ’ere,” he said
succinctly.
I looked past him and saw a
very fair, a very thin Australian
lounging on the lower bunk. He
was so thin I stared. His frame
protruded through the loose
folds of a threadbare, greasy
khaki tunic like the wooden
bones of a scarecrow. A young,
bony face peered up at me under
sandy eyebrows. Most of his
story was in his eyes, wrinkled
painfully at the corners, and with
that unmistakable expression—
half-eager, half-wary— at once
childlike and aged—of a man
who recently suffered extra-
ordinary things, and is only just
beginning confusedly to realise
that he is still alive.
‘‘He’s been on the loose in
Greece,” George said proudly.
There was a romantic side to
George. “Bill, this is Joe. Bill’s
just come in. He and some
other Aussies were on the loose—
Jerries only rounded 'em up a
month ago. Half of them
married Greek sheilas got
Greek kids!” This seemed to
strike George as something
specially marvellous—like mis-
cegenation with a mermaid. He
stood over Bill and looked down
on him admiringly. “You got
any Greek kids, Bill?”
Bill smiled faintly. He looked
desperately tired. “No, George.
I was in the mountains with Ossie
Peters.”
I stared at him. He spoke
languidly, as though fighting
fatigue. But he said it with a
sort of careful pride, as he might
have said “I was with Wingate.”
As though it meant something.
“With who ?” I said, while
George grinned triumphantly.
George rubbed his hands, a
gleeful master -of - ceremonies.
“Get on to this, Dig. This’ll
rock you. Go on, Bill!*’
Bill looked from one face to
the other. “Every time I men-
tion Ossie’s name someone puts
on this act. What’s the idea?”
“Nothin’,” said George with
a pontifical air of high mystery ;
“nothin’ at all. You just carry
on, Bill.”
Bill still looked doubtful.
“Well,” he said, “actually I
never laid eyes on Ossie till I
ran into him outside Stavros.
Long, wooden sort of face.
Black eyes. Not bad-looking.
Doesn’t say much. That the
bloke you know?”
“That’s him,” George assured
him, convulsed with secret in-
formation. “That’s Ossie all
right, Dig.” George knew Ossie,
of course; there wasn’t much
George didn’t know about
boxers, past, present and future.
And, as a matter of fact, George
had been a preliminary boy of
sorts himself once —a trifling
episode in a colorful civilian
career.
“I say—you haven’t got a
smoke, have you?” Bill asked
suddenly, with a strange mixture
of eagerness and embarrass-
ment.
George gave him one of his
precious English cigarettes and
I lit it for him. Bill inhaled
greedily.
“Thanks.” I noticed that Bilks
fingers trembled. He shut his
eyes tightly. “Ah. That’s...
good.” His blue eyes opened
and blinked. “Where was 1?
Ossie. I was just about done
when I ran into Ossie, I can tell
you. No tucker. Frostbite.
The Greeks were with him —
Hadji - Stavros - looking mob.
Tough. Armed to the teeth.”
“What with?” George wanted
to know.
“Jerry stuff. Rifles, tommy-
guns ; even stick-bombs. Some
pretty useful knives, too —I
found out. Oh, they were well
armed. Ossie had a regular
arsenal up at his place in the
Holomonda Mountains.”
GEORGE whistled amazement
which must have been
feigned, in part at least ; since
he had heard the gist of the
story before.
“Is that where he took you?”
I asked. . •
Bill nodded. “Yes. We were
there, oft' and on, for about a
year. We moved round a lot.
Had to, A rough life...”
I believed him, remembering
a night I spent near Fiorina
lying on my belly in the soft
ground without covering. There
was a greasy Greek officer with
us, just down from the hills. He
had been there some terribly
long time, and he was ragged,
hungry and fantastically filthy.
We were lying close to each
other beside the road, and my
other neighbor, a South Aus-
tralian, wouldn’t talk, but kept
shuddering uncontrollably at
each burst of firing. There was
a doubt about our being alive
within the next few minutes, and
for some reason I wanted to
talk—as though, holding life by
such a slender thread, I was
anxious to exercise one of my
faculties at least. That is put-
ting it a little mildly. It was
my tofigue which seemed to
have an independent, rebellious
life, chattering away feverishly.
And for its own urgent rea-
sons the Greek officer’s tongue
chattered as indefatigably in
French, English and sometimes,
fervently and privately, in
Greek. In the stress of conver-
sation he kept edging closer,
peering at me in the darkness to
drive home a point or impress
a period. And I, with a careful
eye on the line of fire, kept edg-
ing away from him, rather like a
wary snail. I was interested in
what he was telling me, and I
respected him for his fortitude.
I even gave him some of my
cigarettes. But I couldn’t en-
dure his close presence, for the
poor fellow stank, horribly.
Guerrillas’ rags are picturesque
only from a distance.
Yet before the bitter night was
through we were all huddled to-
gether for life, myself and the
greasy Greek officer, and the
shuddering South Australian
and a sergeant in the King’s
Royal Rifles, like sheep in a
snowdrift.
And this experience, of course,
was mere child’s-play—a sort of
weekend bivouac —compared to
the life Bill and Ossie had led.
Bill’s fatigue-heavy voice
dragged on. Names of towns,
villages, roads, mountains,
passes. He talked of raids and
ambushes and obscure sanguin-
ary struggles—flatly, as though
he were reading a list of
groceries..
“What’s that about a girl?”
I asked suddenly.
. Bill blinked wearily. “The
girl? Oh, I thought I told you
about her. Wonderful girl.
Ossie’s wife. They were married
by a Greek orthodox priest in
one of those little villages—we
had to shoot him later, matter-
of-fact —found he was doing the
dirty on us with the Jerries. So
Ossie said, anyway. Hard to be
sure, case like that. Still”—Bill
laughed, briefly, harshly—
“better be sure than sorry. Eh?
A rum wedding, though—great
merrymaking. We’d raided a
Jerry pack-train just before —
they tried to sneak up on us, y’
know, using back trails —horses
and mules. That’s what finally
shifted us —got too hot. But
the wedding—everything was
good-oh then. We caught the
pack-train floundering in a snow-
drift —horses. If the square-
heads’d had mules they might’ve
got away with it —however—
cripes, I’m tired —we shot ’em
up —and so we had plenty of
tucker. We turned it on for the
village. Grog, too—lashings of
it. She was a rare old show, was
Ossie’s wedding.”
There was a long and thought-
ful silence. Finally George said
“How did you get on with
Ossie?”
T>ILL wrinkled the sharply-
etched corners of his young-
old eyes. “Ossie,” he said
slowly, “is a funny bloke. I
admire him, of course. You
had to, seeing him in action. But
he’s funny. Zoe, now—that’s
his wife —she was a beaut. Did
me many a good turn. But
Ossie —well, he was sort of
standoffish.”
“Standoffish?” George and I
said together. Both of us had
vivid and somewhat similar
memories of Ossie before the
war in cracked patent-leather
shoes and shabby finery waiting
patiently around the gym-
nasiums for someone to buy him
a drink.
“He’s quiet, if that’s what you
mean,” I said. But George
interrupted me scornfully.
“Quiet ? he said, in the rather
unpleasantly-strident voice he
assumed at times ; what I called
his arguing voice. “Quiet?
He’s dumb.”
Bill didn’t seem to understand.
Or perhaps he was too tired. He
continued talking. “Ossie never
seemed interested in talking to
me like you’d expect him to be,
just the two of us, Australians,
with a lot of Greeks. He treated
me like the others. Although
—yes, a bit more so, if you know
what I mean. I could never get
two words out of him. But he d
jabber away to the Greeks. Of
course he had to —had to keep
sweet with them. But —I got the
idea he enjoyed it —enjoyed
talking to them—but not to
me.”
“He could talk Greek, could
he?” I said, wondering.
It was Bill’s turn to look sur-
prised. His sandy elebrows rose
on his bony forehead. “Talk
it?” he said. “Like a Greek.”
I turned to George, who had
been maintaining an unnatural
silence. “Well,” I said, “what
do you make of that? ”
“It beats me, Dig.”
Bill was yawning. “One more
question,” I begged. He nodded
drowsily. “Look, did Ossie ever
tell you anything about himself
—ever say what he did before
the war, for instance?”
Bill shook his head. “No, he
never let on. Funny thing, I
often wondered about that.
Asked him once, but he shut
me up pretty quick. Been an
active man, though—probably
done a bit of boxing, football,
that sort of thing—there were
those little scars on his face.
He was fit, all right. He did
some pretty terrific marches. I
always had an idea he might
have been a regular-Army bloke
—one of those hush-hush jokers
—he was so damned mysterious.
And knowing the lingo like he
did and —and one thing and
another. The way he talked Eng-
lish, too —sounded a bit phony
to me. Bit too working-class, if
you know what I mean.” He
blinked up at us with innocent
shrewdness.
George laughed. “Listen,
Dig,” he said, “Ossie was born
at Redfern, and lived there all
his life. He left school when he
was fourteen. He fought pre-
liminaries round the suburban
stadiums before the war, and was
just about on his uppers. And
about the only thing he ever
studied was plonk.”
“He was nearly welterweight
champion of Australia,” I put
in for the sake of accuracy and
the boy’s illusions.
Bill stared at us. “Go on!”
he said slowly. “You’re not
pulling my leg—are you?”
We assured him we were not.
Then, as suddenly as it flared
up, Bill’s astonishment waned —
blotted out by a vast fatigue.
“Sorry —dead beat...” he mur-
mured and quietly lay down and
slept.
COME hours later, when he
had revived, I asked him
other questions.
“How did you come to be
caught?” 1 said.
Bill told us a long and ab-
sorbing story, despite his defi-
ciencies as a story-teller. “Ihe
game was up,” he concluded.
“Patrols in the mountains, con-
trol-posts in the villages, the
roads. The Greeks cooling-off.
We could see it coming.”
“And the girl?”
“She got away. Ossie sent her
out —back to where she came
from —Glymphada —before the
finish.”
“Oh.”
“Where’s Ossie now?” George
wanted to know.
“In hospital. He copped a
lacing. Not here; a military
hospital, about twenty kilos
away.”
“I know it,” George said, nod-
ding. “Darky Allen’s there..
GEORGE and I went for a
walk every evening, weather
permitting. We talked of sport,
politics, personalities. George, I
think, knew everyone in the
Sixth Division by their first-
names. And about the future.
Lately George had been worried
about what he was going to do
after the war.
Not about the war: George
Anzac Gallipoli! had no fears
about that. But he was wonder-
ing what he could do after the
war finished. He had been a
postal clerk before enlistment,
but he didn’t want to go back
to it. “I couldn’t. Dig,” he said.
“Not after the places I’ve been
in—the things I’ve seen. . .” he
would wave a spare tattooed
hand to indicate those faraway
places, those unlikely events.
So we would pace around the
darkening perimeter of barbed-
wire, under the tall threat of
the postern boxes and the wider
circle of shadowy, broken moun-
tains, gravely discussing jobs.
The pros of this job, the cons
of that. And each doubt and
fear and aspiration of George’s
found an echo in my own uneasy
heart.
But this evening, some weeks
after our meeting Bill, George
had livelier matters in his round
brown head. I could detect it in
his air of chirpy mystery, but I
didn’t say anything.
At last, looking at me out of
the corners of his brown eyes,
George said “Darky Allen’s
back.”
For a moment it didn’t pene-
trate. Then I remembered.
“Oh. And how’s Ossie?”
“Fine,” said George. “He’s
doin’ fine.”
We walked on.
“Will he be out soon?” I
ventured.
“Who?”
“Ossie.”
“Oh, Ossie. Wouldn’t be sur-
prised.”
We continued walking. But
George couldn’t stand the strain.
“Yair. Darky’s back. Got a
yarn about Ossie. Wanter hear
it?”
“I don’t mind.”
“Well” George skipped
lightly, changing step —“it’s this
way, Dig. They’re there by
themselves—Darky and Ossie-
got a ward on their own. Only
prisoners there —see? They had
a grouse time, by the way.
Treated fine. Funny —ain’t it?
And in another place they’d just
let y’ rot.”
“Get on with the story.”
“Who’s telling it? Well, any-
way, Darky’d been there a good
while —knew all the lurks. A
little Jerry used to come an’ see
him—a walking case —and prac-
tise his English. One day this
little Jerry had a visitor, a,
boxer, an Army champ of some
kind, a middleweight, and he
brought him in, too. Seems the
pug bloke had been on Crete.
So’d Darky. So, naturally, they
got talkin’.”
I nodded. They were a queer
mixture of bitterness and sport-
ing good humor, those conver-
sations with men you had fought
against.
“Darky tells ’em Ossie’s a
boxer —and they get talkin’
hammer-and-tongs. The boxer
bloke’s a bit arrogant —you
know the way they go on.
Gegen England Herren Volk.
(Continued on next page)


Does it matter whose children
they are?
near-naked,
frightened,
forsaken..
mm
■ ;
*-Ti
m m
A
■
This picture, brought out of Greece shows some of
of the world’s children, not as you and I know children,
but hunger-haunted, ferret-faced scraps of humanity
who in their physical fight for survival have become as
old men and women.
You are not asked to see these children, prepare
their gruel, or inject their penicillin. The United Nations
(u.n.i.cj.f.) sees to all that. But what you are asked is
to give some money so that this work can continue. And
this your gentle heart cannot refuse when you think of
these babies, some who have never known a mother’s
arms around them . . . wb£ have hungered for love,
anyone’s love, and never got it—who never heard a
father say, “Here you are. Son!”
It doesn’t matter whose children they are . .• they
would not even understand about saying thank you. It
could be a matter of giving and forgetting; but better
that your gift carry with it... a little prayer ?
Save a child from suffering too much ... make a gift to
UNITED NATIONS
APPEAL
FOR CHILDREN
U.N.A.C. is a voluntary organisation that aims at caring for unfortunate
in regions where famine, disease, reign. U.N.A.C's task is to
provide preventive medicines, to supply food and warm clothing. The
money raised is spent in Australia to buy food and drugs which are shipped
t( the direction of the Fund to the ports nearest the zone of urgent need-
Take up your pen...
*
To The United Nations Appeal for Children
SAVOY HOUSE, 29 6 UGH ST. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please find attached my gift of £ ; ;
Mr. Mrs. M/ss _
Address ;
L
All donations of £1 or over are allowable deductions from
Income Tax. Official Receipt will be posted to you.
UN2.IU
Deutschland liber A ties. All
that. So they have words —
Darky doin’ most of the talkin’,
as he says, the little Jerry trans-
latin’. Maybe he didn’t trans-
late too good. But, anyway, it
finishes up with the Jerry boxer
and Ossie gettin’ stuck into it,
there and then. The Jerry
reckons no Englander was a
match for a Deutscher any-
where, any time. And Ossie
reckons he was. So they get
stuck into it, bare fists. A hell
of a good stoush, Darky said.
And Ossie bowled the Jerry.”
“Did he, eh? What hap-
pened?”
“Nothin’. Nothin’ M all. No
doctors round, '■.o nurses.
Orderlies and patents came to
watch—enjoyed Lie turn. A
Jerry kept nit. The Jerry packed
it in finally. A good sport,
Darky says. They just shook
hands after. The Jerry went off
and Ossie went back to bed.
Runnin’ a temp., he was, Darky
says.”
I relished the story in silence.
It had something attractive
about it---the sporting flavor.
One doesn’t easily despair of
human nature when this sort of
chivalry—call it barbaric, if you
will—crops up. And then, as a
prisoner-of-war, one hugs small
triumphs. Already I was well
on the way to making Ossie the
symbol b« afterwards became to
more ffian one Australian.
“T wonder.. .” I said slowly,
grappling with half-formed
thoughts. “If Ossie—you know,
he’s only young—after the war,
he might still come good—as a
boxer, I mean...”
But George’s was the hard
practical wisdom of the fight
patron. “They don’t make come-
backs, Dig,” he said.
“But if he can beat a good
boxer when he’s sick...”
George hooted derision. “A
good boxer? Listen, Dig, that
Jerry was an Army boxer—an
amachoor. And a Jerry..
“Oh, come oft’ it, George,” I
said. “There’ve been good Ger-
man boxers.”
“Yair. Good. But not good
enough. Pound for pound and
class for class, a Jerry’s no match
for us—with guns or gloves, or
anything else.” George’s candid
brown eyes met mine squarely,
with unflinching conviction.
I looked at him curiously.
After seeing a beaten army, and
after experiencing the morale-
sapping life of a prisoner-of-war
camp, George could say that. It
showed a certain parochial out-
look, perhaps; perhaps some-
thing timelessly admirable.
“And an amachoor, too, Dig
—don’t forget that,” George
added, ruining it.
T ATER I was to hear more
about Ossie. It was strange
how this man, unremarkable
enough in ordinary life, and
almost inarticulate, provoked
talk. It appears that he was out
in a timber-camp after he was
discharged from hospital, and
there rigged himself up a punch-
ing-bag and sparred religiously
with volunteers. Tales of his
prowess began to leak into
camp. And a friend of mine
who had quite a lot of money in
civilian life began to talk of
financing his return to the ring
—after the war. It was as
though all of us —a great num-
ber of us, anyway; for from
this form of mass-aspiration
George kept himself irritatingly
aloof—had seized upon Ossie as
a symbol of renaissance. The
thing was so dramatic, Ossie
himself, in a negative way, was
so colorful. A man who had
hit the bottom of the slide, so
to speak—a down-and-out pugi-
list—busying himself' in his re-
habilitation. In this strange
half-life which had wrecked
men, one man, one of us, was
achieving something. Miracles
could still happen. And we were
desperately eager to believe in
miracles let knowalls like
George say what they would.
With the first snows Ossie
came into the Stalag. I met him
in the long queue waiting for
the issue of Red Cross parcels.
“Hullo, Ossie,” I said.
“Hullo, Joe,” he said in his
flat voice.
He looked very much the
same. Sloe-black eyes, long face,
eyebrows like black arcs of sur-
prise, The uniform—thin and
patched—was the only marked
difference I could see in him ;
at first, anyway. But then again,
looking at him more closely, I
could see something. He had
that iron look, the lean, taut,
almost hungry look of the well-
trained man or horse. It was
impressive.
In the meantime conversation
had bogged-down. “You’ve been
round quite a bit since I saw
you at Glymphada,” I said.
Ossie shuffled in the snow.
“Yair.”
I was about to pump him,
when he gave me a queer, dark,
reflective look, and I abstained.
There was something a little
strange about Ossie’s eyes—
there always had been, I remem-
bered. They were rather like the
eyes of a bull-terrier —without
the pinkness—and they had a
strange brilliance at times.
Thinking back, even in Sydney,
when one saw that cold light in
Ossie’s eyes it was difficult to
believe that there wasn’t some-
thing to match it behind the
puffy eyebrows—something swift
and keen and limber and fine y
balanced as a delicate, dead y
weapon. But, then, one woui
think of Ossie as he was—wha:
he was —and the notion seemec
absurd.
“Hear you’ve been in train
ing, Ossie?” I said.
“Yair.” He shifted again
“Wish they’d get a move on
Bloody cold, waitin’ here.”
I felt distinctly rebuffed.
When Ossie fought—and bea
—a highly-rated Welsh boxer i
the camp, his value as a symbol
appreciated. It was, of course
an unconscious value. Bu
nothing else, to my mind
explains the extraordinar
interest, he held for everyone wh
knew his antecedents. His Aus
tralian ones, I mean. Strangely
enough, very few people knew
much about his Greek adven
tures. George, for some reason
didn’t talk about them. Fo
some reason equally inexplicable
neither did I. Ossie never talkec
about anything. And Bill had
been sent to some other Stalag
soon after his arrival.
What kept interest in Ossie
alive, as much as anything,
think, was the If. There is an
If to everything, naturally. Bu
once Ossie had demonstrated hi
prowess—his rebirth, if you like
as a boxer —there was the ques
tion of how he would react to
civilian life, to life in Australia
George, in one of his rare con
cessions to the possibility of
Ossie’s return to success as
boxer, said “They’d have to keep
him locked up, Dig—and that
ain’t possible. Once he gets on
the plonk he’ll be what he was
before—a bum.”
13UT on the other hand, there
u was Bill’s story and ];
didn’t doubt it; neither did that
profound sceptic George. But it
seemed to indicate that such
things were possible—that
man could, as it were, change his
nature. I had a hint—no more —
on the subject from Ossie him-
self. We becamp quite friendly
after a time, in a noncommittal
way, and I was talking about
dreams. Not to Ossie, really, but
to George. Ossie just happened
to be there, sitting on a bench a
little way from the barrack stove
which George and I were hug-
ging. Ossie had been training,
and he was still warm from the
exercise.
I forget what it was I or
George said, but Ossie suddenly
broke in. “Y’ ever go to a place
and find y’d dreamed about it?”
he demanded.
The phenomenon, of course, is
well known. And there is a
plausible physiological theory to
explain. But I wasn’t tempted
to air my knowledge. “Why?”
I said, looking at Ossie curiously.
“Because,” he said, speaking
slowly, as though the words were
costing him a strenuous effort,
“because that’s how I felt —in
Greece.”
“Did you, eh?”
“Yair. And it all fitted in—l
mean —everything ...”
“You mean it ended like a
dream?”
“No. That’s the funny thing.
It ain’t ended yet.”
“You married a Greek sheila,
didn’t you?” George demanded.
(i Continued on page 24)


Queensland's
OLD JIMBOUR
and the Darling Downs
By G. H. ROUTLEY
Richard todd
SCOUGALL, whom we
must accept as the first
pioneer-owner of Jim-
bour, built there the first hut on
the Darling Downs, and the first
sheep shorn there ifere his.
He arrived in Australia in 1832
in his own ship from Leith, Scot-
land, where his grandfather was
a prominent shipowner. He was
one of the first to bring “free”
white servants to Australia.
He took up land on the Liver-
pool Plains and owned a
property known as Elderslie. In
1838 and 1840 he applied for,
and obtained, licences to take up
land “beyond the limits.” He
was overstocked and sent Henry
Dennis, his superintendent, to
seek out new land for him.
Dennis travelled northwards
up the Moonee Riven and
crossed the Macintyre near
where Goondiwindi now stands.
On he went across the Darling
Downs, and took up Jimbour
for his employer, about 200,000
acres, and also Jondaryan, about
100,000 acres, for himself.
About the same time Patrick
Leslie had travelled through New
England and settled in the
vicinity of the present town of
Warwick.
Scougall also built the first
Jondaryan House, in 1844, con-
structed from bush timber. A
fine old home which was com-
pletely destroyed by fire quite
recently, about 100 years after
being built,
Richard Walter Scougall, a
son of R, T. Scougall, managed
Forest Vale in the early ’sixties
for Messrs, Tooth and Cran.
His daughter, Miss Ruby
Scougall, of Sandgate, furnished
a copy of a letter written by her
father many years ago, in which
he outlined the route followed
by Dennis in 1840 (he goes on
to say that Patrick Leslie was
travelling through New England
about the same time):
I have heard many discus-
sions .... as to who arrived first,
and think they left their starting-
point about the same time.
The first hut on the Darling
Downs was at Jimbour, and my
father also built old Jondaryan.
The first wool to cross the Too-
woomba main range was my
father’s. The teams were driven
by Patterson River blackboys in
charge of my uncle, Charles Dunn.
Which all goes to prove that
Henry Dennis had a big claim to
be the first white man to set foot
on the Darling Downs.
Charles Dunn, who was on
Jimbour from 1842 to 1845, says
it was stocked with 11,000 sheep
in January, 1842. Richard Todd
Scougall was apparently settled
there in 1840. In September of
the same year he married a
daughter of the late William
Dunn, of Duninald, on the
Patterson River, N.S.W.
Like many others, Scougall
was a heavy loser by the crash
of the Bank of Australia.
[Here Mr. Routley quotes from
a letter written in April, 1899,
by Sir Arthur Hodgson, of Eaton
Vale, in which Sir Arthur tells
how, on a visit to Sydney in
1845, he had negotiated the sale
of the Scougall estate (insolvent
because of the bank crash) to
Thomas Bell, of Parramatta.
Jimbour, with sheep, cattle and
all improvements, was secured
by Bell for £3200. Dennis had
been left in charge.]
The explorer Leichhardt got
considerable assistance from
Henry Dennis and Scougall
when he started from Jimbour
on his Port Essington expedition
in 1844. They tried to persuade
him to give up the idea as he
was no bushman, but it was use-
less. However, Dennis accom-
panied him for two days on his
journey, which was his last and
fatal.
Richard Scougall died at
Maryborough. He was a splen-
did horseman and rode a spirited
black horse of which he was very
proud. He always rode this
horse on his many journeys be-
tween his different properties.
A story is told that on one
occasion, on bidding farewell to
some friends in Brisbane, who
were travelling by steamer to
Sydney, he told them he would
be in Sydney before them, which
they doubted. However, when
the boat arrived in Sydney
Scougall was at the quay, sitting
on his favorite black horse wait-
ing for them.
Henry Dennis was drowned in
Moreton Bay in the wreck of
the Sovereign in 1847. He was
on his way to Sydney to marry
one of Thomas Bell’s daughters.
Others lost in this wreck were
Mr. and Mrs. R. Gore and their
two children and other promi-
nent settlers from the Downs.
So now, in 1845, Thomas Bell,
of Parramatta, Sydney, has be-
come the owner of Jimbour.
Mr. Bell came to Australia in
charge of convicts. He was a
native of Northern Ireland. The
family consisted of three sons
and two daughters. The sons
were Alexander, Marmaduke
and Joshua Peter, who was three
years of age when he arrived in
New South Wales. After pur-
chasing Jimbour they left it to
H. Dennis, who managed it till
1847, when they took over full
possession. They seemed to
run the station as a family con-
cern under the title of Thomas
Bell and Sons.
Jimbour was a huge run when
first taken up; some 300,000
acres [i.e., including Jondaryan].
It extended from the Bunya
Mountains on the east to the
Condamine River on the west.
When Henry Dennis selected
Jimbour and Jondaryan he also
secured Myall Creek for a Mr.
Charles Coxen, who only occu-
pied it for a short time and then
moved further west to Dulacca.
Cecil Plains, at this time owned
by Stewart Russell, came into
where Blaxland stands today,
and Jondaryan bounded it on
the south and east and extended
eastwards from Blaxland to the
boundary of Cumkillenbar, just
past where Moccatti’s Corner is
today.
Moccatti was the name of a
shepherd who had his hut at that
point of timber in the early days.
In the early ’forties Commis-
sioner Rolleston ordered a fresh
apportion of the two huge runs
of Jimbour and Cecil Plains,
cutting out Gooranga and Cum-
killenbar from Jimbour and a
large slice from the northern and
eastern end of Cecil Plains.
Gooranga was taken by T. S.
Mort, of Sydney [Thomas
Sutcliffe Mort; he built Mort’s
Dock and pioneered Australia’s
frozen-meat export industry],
who sent up his chief clerk,
Ewan Cameron, to stock and
manage it. In after years it went
back into the possession of Bell
and Sons.
Thomas Belfort became the
owner of Cumkillenbar, but the
station was a very dry one, and
he was ruined by a drought. I
was told by an old hand, Alex
Johnstone, later of Moccatti’s
Corner, that Belfort offered him
the station and all on it for £5O.
Cumkillenbar next came into
the possession of Thomas De
Lacy Moffat, who was a brother-
in-law of Joshua T. Bell, having
married one of his sisters.
Moffat greatly improved the run
by making dams across the
creeks and sinking wells. One
dam below the homestead
banked up water for a mile back,
The station extended right up
to the heads of Moola and Bunya
creeks and to the mountains. It
was stocked with cattle and
sheep. The latter were shep-
herded mostly by Chinamen.
Mr. Sam Moffat was manager, a
nephew of the Bells,
Cumkillenbar was always
connected with Jimbour, more-
or-less. It was finally merged
into the Darling Downs and
Western Lands Co. about 1883,
and was managed from Jimbour.
One fact interesting to know
is that these creek-flats leading
from the mountains down to the
plains country were when first
occupied comparatively open
country. This was the case on
Cattle Creek, Bunya and Moola
Creeks, which all had sheep-
stations at intervals right up into
the mountains. The reason was
that the blacks used to burn out
the country every year to make
it easier for hunting. This kept
the country fairly open. In after
years these flats became covered
with scrub and suckers.
In regard to Jimbour we do
not hear much for about 10
years, from 1847 to ’57. Only
that Joshua Peter Bell, who
would be about 20 years of age
at that time, rode over from
N. S. Wales in 1847 accom-
panied by a blackboy called
Warrabee, who rode a bull. This
animal would be a stud.
Warrabee must have been very
young then, too, as I knew him
about 1877. He was then a
highly-finished gentleman, hav-
ing been sent to England by
Bell and Sons to be educated at
an English public school. His
home was at Jimbour, and he
owned racehorses.
Mr, Alex. [Bell] and Mr.
Joshua [Bell] seem to have had
the sole management of the
station until the late ’fifties. Mr.
Joshua was the active partner in
the firm of Thomas Bell and
Sons from then onwards. They
employed a superintendent about
this time at a salary of £lOOO.
He was a splendid man by the
name of James Challacombe,
well liked by everyone.
From now on, through the
’sixties, I have learnt from my
father, Richard Hewlett Routley,
everything I know of the station
at that time. He was a sheep
THIS is a first-hand account of a spacious station property and
its people, closely linked with the development of the Darling
Downs from unsettled country into one of the richest and most
populous parts of Queensland. The hand-written manuscript,
filling a school exercise-book, came from a Bulletin contributor
at Dalby (Q.), with this covering letter:
“Possibly I am biased on account of knowing Mr. G. H.
Routley, the writer of the enclosed manuscript, but I am of
opinion that it deserves a permanent place among historical
records of Queensland. You may find something of Bulletin
interest in the work. t A letter of Mr. Routley’s, attached, gives
me permission to deal with the manuscript as I like. I am a
boy of 70 .”
The writer of the MS. is himself a “boy” of 87. His letter,
enclosed by our contributor, is as clearly and well written as
the remarkable MS. itself, a reproduction of an example of
which will be given in the concluding instalment in next week’s
Bulletin'.
overseer there for about eight
years from 1860. Although I
was born there, in 1866, I was
far too young when he left Bell’s
employment to remember any-
thing about it.
We are told that the name
Jimbour or Jimba was abo. for
good grass or pastures; and it
was so, too. 1 can remember
the magnificent grasses and
herbage on these great rolling
plains in a good season, when
the oat-grass was five or six feet
tall. One could tie it in a knot
across the pommel of the saddle
when riding through,
There were also great fields of
wild-flowers—bluebells, daisies,
cowslips, etc., all in their original
glory before the country became
heavily stocked,
One sight on these plains
would not be easily forgotten:
the run of the roly-poly,
a plant of the saltbush species
which grew into a round ball
about 4ft. or more in diameter,
After the first frosts in winter
these became dry and broke off
at ground-level and went bound-
mg along in thousands before
the winds. In a few days, with
a change of wind, they would set
oft in another direction. Stock
that were not used to these
would get quite panicky when
they first started out.
j n those days chaff and corn
were almost unheard of. If you
came into Dalby on horseback
and put up at a hotel for the
night your horse was fed on
bush-hay, which was cut per
scythe on Jimbour plain or Hay-
fields. It was very good, too.
and quite a few men made good
money at haymaking, and cart-
ing it into town. In after years
the best and finer grasses were
eaten out and disappeared from
large areas, and coarser sorts re-
placed them, mostly rumberg
grass-seed, which did not agree
with sheepbreeding and wool-
production.
Jimbour produced an enor-
moUs quantity of wool, and at
shearing-time streams of bullock-
teams were engaged in carrying
jt to the nearest port of export
Mr. Joshua Peter Bell was the
active managing-director of Bell
and Sons until 1874, when his
father died. He then became the
sole owner. Early in the ’sixties
he visited England for the first
time. When he came back he
married a daughter of an Ipswich
medico.
He was a grand sportsman,
especially in the racing line, and
the credit is due to him forestab-
fishing the fir£t horsebreeding
and racing studs in Queens-
land.
He first started witll a few
thoroughbred mares purchased
in England and N. S. Wales.
After their arrival he purchased
Epigram, an imported English
horse, from N.S.W. Other sires
used afterwards were Laureate,
Bladensberg, Silver Fox, Laner-
cost, etc. My father told me
the stockhorses on the station at
that time were a wonderful class,
especially the line sired by David
and Lanercost. They were big
upstanding horses, splendid
hacks and practically tireless.
The station had its own race-
course where meetings were
held, and the Queensland Turf
Club used to present a handsome
cup every year. The Northern
Downs Jockey Club was formed
after in Dalby. At their annual
Cup meeting the added money
was over £lOOO, spread over two
days.
Mr. Bell raced on a big scale.
On his second visit to England
he purchased six mares which
afterwards made history for his
stud. He transferred his stud-
breeding from Jimbour to The
Grange, near Ipswich. He won
nearly every race of any import-
ance in the Queensland racing
calendar, including the Derby in
four successive years, the Bris-
bane Cup with Lord Clifden,
Brisbane Handicap twice with
Olivia and also Warhawk, the St.
Leger with Waterloo, Sandgate
Handicap with Cadmus and
Queensland Cup twice, with
Cadmus and Canary.
I myself saw some of his
horses race in Dalby in the
’seventies ; Waterloo, Warhawk,
Cadmus and
Canary were some of them.
Nearly all the small townships
around Dalby staged their own
meetings in those days annually.
The Jimbour four-in-hand coach,
which conveyed the family from
meeting to meeting, was famous
throughout the district and its
arrival at any function was the
centre of much interest.
Jimbour-bred stockhorses on
two occasions won the principal
races in Queensland. The first
was Chance, which won the
North Australian J.C. Handicap
in 1865. He was by Lanercost.
Next was Quicksilver, which won
the Queensland Cup in 1885.
Large numbers of stockhorses
were bred, and were in great
request. There were two horse-
breakers always on the job.
The draughthorses were also
a very fine type of Clydesdale.
Mr. Bell always purchased the
very best of sires for his different
studs at Jimbour. He spared no
expense. The cattle were Short-
horns from Victorian studs. He
also bred pure Merino sheep.
One of these rams won the cham-
pionship at the Sydney sheep
show in 1879.
At JJmbour woolshed, where
I was born, my father had his
residence. The woolshed was
about 15 miles from the head
station, situated down near the
river Condamine, about two
miles north-west of where
Macalister, on the railway, now
stands. There was a big lagoon
behind the woolshed, and the
washpools were handy down on
the river.
There was also a public house
near by, kept by my aunt, who
had married a constable formerly
stationed at Condamine town-
ship. His name was Donald
Ross: afterwards drowned in
the river during the ’64 floods.
She married T. C. Norris after a
time. He came to Jimbour
from Maitland, horsebreaking.
In those days there was no
fencing of any consequence,
only the great open plains. All
sheep were shepherded, and the
names of all the shepherds, with
the number of their huts and
the numbers of the flocks that
each had under him, made lists
feet long.
Some of them were married
men with families and had two
flocks to look after. Their wage
was £4O a year, with rations.
Ration consisted of 161 b. of
meat, 81b. flour, 21b. ration-
sugar and 41b. of tea, delivered
each week by the station ration-
carriers.
There was a very good store
at the station, in the charge of
S. Grimley, where almost every-
thing in reason, including
(Continued on page 34)


GUMMY JACK GETS
HIS SLEEP
by DAL STIVENS
Gummy jack, the
hatter, couldn’t sleep one
night, so after an hour or
so of lying awake on his
stretcher and talking to the
lizards which lived in the roof
of his bag humpy he tried count-
ing sheep.
They were eight-tooth wethers
and they all jumped when they
went through the gate. Gummy
Jack, who had got his monicker
because he looked like an old
toothless wether, counted six
hundred and fifty-one wethers,
springing up from the dust of
the yard and through the gate in
a great bound, before he
dropped off to sleep that first
night the insomnia hit him
The next night Gummy Jack
couldn’t sleep again, so after
yarning with the lizards for ten
minutes or so, he patted his chaff-
bag pillow, tweaked his stringy
beard to one side, and settled
down to count the leaping
wethers once more.
“Eight hundred and twenty-
one, eight hundred and twenty-
two, eight hundred and twenty-
three,” chanted Gummy, before
dropping off to sleep.
The next night Gummy wasted
no time chatting to the lizards
bpt started counting as soon
his beard hit the chaff-ba
Sheep, after sheep sprang up o f
his hind-legs and jumped throug i
the gate, and before lon
Gummy Jack was countin
“Fifteen hundred and twent
three! ”
He was just starting to sa
“Fifteen hundred and twent
four! ” when the wether sue -
denly balked, stood square o
his four legs and said: “Fa
go, mate! Break it up!”
“What do you mean?” askec
Gummy, then.
“You call yourself a sport, i
suppose?” demanded the wethe
Gummy Jack nodded.
“Fine flaming sort of a sport!
said the wether bitterly. ‘Tv
jumped two thousand, nin
hundred and ninety-seven time
for you in three nights and yo
still want me to keep on jump
ing. It’s exhausting, I tell you
having to jump and then rac
round like mad to make anothe
flaming jump.”
“I’m very sorry, wether,” saic
Gummy Jack when he’d taken
it in and scratched his head
where the top wool was comin
away. “I never realised it.
thought you were differen
sheep.”
“So you should be sorry!’
said the wether. “Differen
sheep, be blowed! The trouble
with you is that your imagina
tion is limited and you can only
think of the one kind of sheep
and you pick on me.”
HERE the wether wrinkled
his forehead. “If you keep
working me so hard I’ll soon be
a broken-mouthed sheep, if not
gummy .”
Gummy Jack took a couple of
minutes to sort all this out, dur-
ing which time his brow became
creased like the wether’s. When
he got it straight he apologised
once more. “To show you I’m
a sport, I’m open to any sugges-
tions,” he told the wether.
“You could try thinking of
kangaroos,” said the wether, who
had calmed down by this time.
“Not on your life!” said
Gummy Jack. “They jump so
flaming fast I’d never be able to
count them.”
“Tortoises, then?” said the
wether.
Gummy thought the wether
might be getting at him, but,
trying to be friendly, he said:
“Too flaming slow! I’d get
bored, and, besides, they don’t
jump.”
“Emus, then?” asked the
wether.
“They’re silly-looking birds!”
said Gummy Jack.
“You’re making it hard, mate,”
said the wether, screwing up his
forehead. “How about black
sheep?”
“That’s an idea!” cried
Gummy Jack, and he started
thinking about black sheep
vaulting through the gate. In
the same instant, the wether was
gone and Gummy Jack began
counting the black sheep
He’d only got to ten when the
eleventh black wether propped
and spoke: “It’s no go—it’s me
again! ”
Gummy Jack looked and saw
indeed that it was the wether,
though he had changed his color.
“Just as my old man always
said Td become!” cried the
wether. “I had to strike a hatter
to have it happen to me.”
“I’m real sorry,” said Gummy
Jack. He poked a linger among
his wool. “I’ll tell you what,
I’ll try thinking of rams—that
should rule you out.”
And he started to concentrate
but was interrupted by the
wether, who called out sharply:
“Not so fast! Wait until I get
my breath back, just in case I
have to do this job, too.”
Gummy Jack waited for five
minutes, and then, when the
wether said he’d got his wind
back, he started thinking about
rams jumping through the gate
and in the same instant the
wether disappeared.
EDERHAPS it was because
* Gummy Jack was now im-
patient to get to sleep; the rams
vaulted higher than the wethers
and they went through the gate
much faster, and after Gummy
Jack had counted seventy-six he
was feeling he might get to sleep
after all when the next ram dug
his toes in the dust and skidded
to a stop.
“It’s me again though you
have fitted me out with more
wool and bigger and curlier
horns and other things!” said
the wether. “I wanted to give
you a break, Gummy, so I didn’t
let on .at first. Besides, I
wanted” The wether hung
his head.
“Go on,” said Gummy Jack.
“Shucks,” said the wether.
“But I did wonder what it was
like to be a ram.” He frowned.
“It’s much overrated if I can
judge from what I’ve had to do
tonight—jumping like hell and
racing round like fury to do an-
other silly flaming bound into
the air. Got any other ideas?”
“Yes, ewes,” said Gummy
Jack. “That ought to leave you
out, wether.”
Gummy Jack waited until the
wether got his breath back, just
in case, and then he started
hard about ewes, and
before long, first one ewe and
then another and a third, fol-
lowed by others, sprang up from
the dust of the yard and frisked
through the air.
But this time the wether did
not vanish; instead it stayed by
the gate, watching the ewes leap,
and counting them with nods of
his head. Gummy Jack counted
up to twenty-five and then he
stopped.
“I ain’t ever going to get off
to sleep if you stay there and
do that,” he told the wether.
The ewes had disappeared
now. “The trouble with you is
that your imagination is limited,”
said the wether. “First you
worked me to death—l’m certain
my teeth are starting to fall out
—and now, when you got the
ewes doing a bit of work, you
object to me hanging around.”
“Look here, wether,” said
Gummy Jack. “I don’t know
that I like that bit about me be-
ing stupid. I let it go the first
time to show you I was a sport.
They reckon I’m a bit cracked
round these parts, and I don't
mind that a bit, but stupid is an-
other matter.”
“Lack of imagination,” cor-
rected the wether. “I never said
anything about you being
stupid.”
“Whatever you said, I can’t
say I liked the tone,” said
Gummy Jack.
“We’d better drop it, other-
wise you’ll never get to sleep,”
said the wether. “You imagine
me away and then you start
counting the ewes.”
Gummy Jack made a big
effort and first the wether
vanished and then the ewes
began jumping through the gate.
After he had counted one
hundred and twenty - nine,
Gummy fell asleep.
THE next night he tried very
hard, was able to keep the
wether out and to begin straight-
way with the ewes. When he
had counted five .hundred and
nine he got off to sleep.
For a fortnight Gummy Jack
counted ewes at night and then
he noticed first that the ewes
were hobbling a bit as they ran
up to the gate and then that they
were not jumping so high as they
had done.
“Twenty-six, twenty-seven—
here comes trouble,” said
Gummy Jack.
The twenty-eighth ewe
propped and, cocking her head,
said in a lemony voice: “We
don’t mind helping you out, but
you ought to give us softer
ground to jump on. If you ask
me, it’s a proper disgrace and
only a man could be so blind
and”
“Us?” asked Gummy Jack.
“Of course,” said the ewe.
“You don’t think we’re mugs like
that wether? There are twenty
of us. But we can’t hang round
magging all night!” She tossed
her head. “Are you going to do
something about that ground be-
fore we all get crippled? If that
happens there’ll be no sleep for
you, Gummy Jack!”
“How about soft grass?”
asked Gummy Jack after he’d
taken it in and scratched his bald
forehead. The ewe nodded.
“Wet from the rain,” added
Gummy.
Gummy Jack thought hard
and the grass around the gate
became long, soft, green and wet,
and for good measure he tossed
in a few pools of water from a
downfall of rain,
“We’ll see how this works
out! ” said the ewe, and she took
off and was followed by the
other ewes, in turn. For a month
the ewes jumped through the
gate and landed in the soft wet
grass, and, depending on his in-
somnia, Gummy Jack counted
totals ranging from two hundred
and eighty-nine to nine hundred
and seventy-two before going off
to sleep.
The nine hundred and seventy-
two total worried Gummy when
he remembered it next day, as
he went round his rabbit-traps.
He talked it over later with an
old-man goanna, and that night
to help the ewes he made the
grass longer and the pools bigger
and deeper and when the ewes
landed the water sprang up.
'"P KINGS went well for nearly
I a month, and then Gummy
Jack saw that the ewes were
hobbling once again and that
they were only taking little
jumps.
“Fifteen, sixteen,” counted
Gummy. “More trouble! ”
“I should say so!” said the
seventeenth ewe, stopping before
the gate. “Anyone who knew
anything about sheep could have
foreseen it. Foot-rot! There
are three of us left to jump and
then I am afraid that will have
to be all for tonight—insomnia
or no insomnia!”
Gummy Jack didn’t answer.
“Well, do you want us to
jump?” said the ewe impatiently
after about a minute. “Speak
up!”
“No!” said Gummy loudly,
and the ewe bounded high in the
air and then vanished. Gummy
Jack knitted his brows and
thought of sheep leaping through
the gate and lobbing in the dust.
Gummy Jack counted up to
fourteen and then the wether
stopped and spoke:
“It’s me again, but carry on!
I’ve had a month’s spell. Be-
sides, I’ve taken a liking to you,
Gummy.”
“That may make it awkward,”
said Gummy Jack. “But forget
about it for the time being.”
The wether began leaping
through the gate, and after five
hundred and sixty-seven skips
Gummy fell asleep. By the end
of a fortnight the wether had
plunged up and down seven
hundred and eighty-three times.
“Seven hundred and eighty-
five, seven hundred and eighty-
six, seven hundred and eighty-
seven,” chanted Gummy Jack on
the fifteenth night, “Let trouble
come! ”
Before the seven hundred and
eighty-eighth frisk through the
gate, the wether jibbed and,
cocking his head round, tried
to speak. Only muffled sounds
came forth.
“I hate to do it to you, wether,
but a man must get to sleep
somehow or he’ll go crackers,”
said Gummy Jack.
“Brm br brmrmrmrmrmm br br,”
said the wether.
“You forced me to put that
muzzle on you, wether,” said
Gummy Jack.
“ Bbmrmrmrmrmrrmrmrmrbr,”
said the wether, and jumped
through the gate,
Over Jittery Sydney
Over jittery Sydney now, darkness rises like fever
and skews the sun-topped buildings with its pyrexic lever
until, light draining away,
they topple into the bay.
Her tallest buildings falling, diving, cooling into the Cove;
the hills slide to the harbor, and so must we, my love.'
Let every man toss his daughter
to the cruel water.
Let every woman take her son at the tide’s flood
And by his heel let in its clear salt blood
that by her pains*
he may have cleaner veins.
Oh, one from his drowned eyes saw Henry Parkes in a little
boat
go sailing past, and the old man said: "It’s my beard
keeps me afloat;
when it blows a gale
I use it for a sail.”
Caroline Chisholm swirled in an eddy but her skirts rose
bravely round:
“Were it not for the ai r in these hoops,” she said, “I’d
surely be drowned,
I’m far from dead
though the stone shows ’77,” she said.
On the weedy floor lost green bones shift, skulls roll their
shell-filled eyes;
Slow currents force through those grinning teeth and
bubbling to the surface rise.
So much to be given
Before you’re shriven.”
You say this is a madness bred of an airless night,
and there is, you say, but one sure way to prove that you
are right. 3
We must stroll along the pier
and borrow a boat from there.
For here is no longer health or sanity upon these evil shores,
but a white dinghy drifts on a slip-rope whose owner has left
the oars
almost as if he had known
this need of our own.
A leaping mackerel traces its silver parabola past the bows,
the brief duration of its curve might mark the graph of
those vows
which honest men make
for the crooked to break.
A legendary ferry glitters, chugging the regular sound
of travelling blood, and even the oars for their circular
sweep have found
a harmonising part
with the human heart
and with mid-harbor currents that contain the ocean swell.
Keluctant headlands give up the moon. All is not well
but perspective sets to rights
Sydney’s straight lines of lights.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
4ND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
and PERTH
Australian Historical Sketches
George Evans’s
Western Christmas
By M. H. ELLIS
ON November 19, 1813, a
man sat in his camp by
the Emu Island Crossing
of the Nepean River, his
portable writing-equipment in
front of him. He was a huge
fellow, well over six feet high,
broad and ruddy. He had a look
of the sea about him. In a tiny,
placid hand he wrote to
Governor Macquarie that he had
“everything across the river and
packed up, therefore shall take
my departure early in the morn-
ing. We are amply supplied with
every comfort and necessary for
our use.”
George W. Evans was on his
way to confirm and extend the
discoveries of Blaxland, Lawson
and young William Wentworth
made earlier in that year of
1813, and it was no light task to
look forward to, especially for
an unwieldy fellow, heavy on
his feet, who always found rocks
and gullies a trial.
Near him lounged Mr, Byrne
or Burns, a kangaroo-shooter to
whom Macquarie had paid £lO a
few days before for having
guided the Blaxland party up the
first part of the range. He was
to prove a wretched guide. And
in his party was Richard Lewis,
a freeman, afterwards to become
one of Cox’s road-builders and
of the little band of original
pioneer settlers of the west; and
there were James Cooghan, John
Grover and John Tygh,
prisoners.
At dawn next day they were
afoot; but by a sardonic circum-
stance it was raining along the
river, despite the fact that
drought had the County of
Cumberland hard and bitterly
in its grip. They had a bad
start, for Mr. Byrne showed
himself proficient only in losing
his way in the foothills. They
set down for the night where
they found some water.
Next morning they padded on
through the brush; but from
Lapstone Hill could see nothing
because of the fog. They
struggled on in the rain, their
horses stumbling. It was a
dreary scene. On the third day
out there was nothing to be done
but to build a hut from bark, in
which they could get the first
night’s sleep of the journey.
While they slept the wind came
up strongly and cleared away the
rain, and they woke fresh and
came cheerily to the end of the
range near ML Victoria, where
they stowed some provisions in
the hollow cliffs in hopes that
the supply would be enough to
take them home from there on
their way back.
They were in high spirits now.
Though the descent which they
were to face was rugged and
steep it led them about midday
on November 24 into a valley of
good feed. This place appeared
“a fine part of the country”;
I have no doubt but the points of
ridges or bluffs to the n.-w. (the
country seems open in the form of
this angle) are the termination of
what is called the Blue Mountains,
and that we are now over them: at
1 o'clock I stopped on the bank
of a Riverlett, which is a rapid
stream from the n.-e the two
dogs went off after game without
success and came back to us severely
cut.
One would like to know more
about those two dogs, the first
to kill the kangaroo outside
coastal Australia ; but it is hard
enough to find out much about
humans, let alone animals, of
140 years ago.
This was paradise beside the
drought-stricken coast, so bare
and so burned and so odorous
from the dead cattle in its
parched woods. There were
small meadows clear of trees,
and good soil with chains of
little holes of water, which, in
wet weather, it was noted, turned
into small streams. A scrub of
young trees in places had sprung
up among the grass ; and between
the trees they came upon a
kangaroo which Ponto and
Tray (or whatever their names
were) had killed and left the day
before. As they camped to dry
their bread, sodden during the
rains, they heard the luluing of
the blackfellows announcing
their coming, but taking care not
to be seen.
Every advance found the
wilderness richer and more
tangled as they followed a
stream which had no name, see-
ing features unfamiliar to them
on their Pacific Ocean ledge.
They saw a rock like white
marble with yellow veins. They
plunged, as the stream turned
southward, into a land like that
which Macquarie had named
Corri Lynn' at Port Dalrymple
in Van Diemen’s Land. The
timber here was generally thin
and light. Flats were well-
timbered, with a few honey-
suckles growing on the banks of
the rivers. The “lockett”
(lorikeet) bird sang. The seed
of the burnett stuck to their
legs. The feed was better than
any Mr. Evans had yet seen in
New South Wales.
At evening they unpacked at
the foot of a very handsome
mount, which he “took the
liberty to call Mt. Blaxland,”
while two on each side df the
rivulet he called Wentworth’s
and Lawson’s Sugar Loaves.
He was “at a loss to describe
the pleasant appearance of this
place.” The grass was quite
green and good at the limit-point
reached by the earlier party
which had crossed in the winter,
not, as he himself could well
confirm after his struggle across
the ridges, “without much labor,
perseverance and fatigue.” His
own party had travelled “at least
fifty miles” from the Nepean —
and “as the present track is, no
person in the colony on the
choicest horse could reach this
and return to the Nepean in
four days.” The “sharp granite”
made it impossible to push any
horse out of a walk.
+ +
It was still three days before
they could at last look out over
the open west. Then they could
see a great distance. A mist
seemed to rise from what
appeared to be a large river or
lake. Directly westward Evans
could see, he thought, forty miles
over plain country—trees thin,
grass plentiful. Southward were
large hills pastured to their tops.
Presently they met another
stream coming in from the
south, and on it shot ducks and
caught several “trout” weighing
at least five or six pounds each—
and became the first white men
to eat the Murray cod. Later
they caught them up to fifteen
pounds weight.
Their vistas widened; the
country still improved. They
saw “white daisies growing as
in England,” wattle in clusters
along the river. The dogs killed
another kangaroo. The natives
still crossed their paths, invisible.-
It rained again, and the bark
would not come off the trees, so
that they had no shelter. And
this was only one misfortune,
for their horses were getting too
fat and at the same time galled.
They lined the saddles with straw
but found it too hard, so were
forced to use their blankets as
saddle-cloths. They had to
ration their bread, for they had
lost much of it through the soak-
ing weather ; but they did not
care if their pork was all lost.
They could “get a kangaroo any
time.”
On December 6 the river they
were following came out upon
“the handsomest country I ever
saw; it surpasseth Port
Dalrymple.... worth speaking of
a.y good and beautiful.”
Their leader named it
O’Connell Plains after the
Lieutenant - Governor. There
were wild geese on it honking
over the thinly-placed gum-
trees which stood not more than
ten to the acre, thick-barked, in
country which had never before
heard the ring of a metal axe or
the strange cadences of a white-
man’s voice. On the parts which
they niched in the afternoon
and which they named Mac-
quarie Plains the game was so
plentiful they could scarcely
believe their eyes. The fish
seemed to bite at any time. They
became surfeited with fish —even
the dogs throve on them, for
they were as fat as the land along
the banks,
4- +
They called the stream the
Fish River as they watched it
swelling from a thunderstorm.
With logs they built the first
bridge west of the mountains in
crude fashion across the rushing
stream. And by sunset they had
reached a junction where another
water, which they called the
Campbell, flowed in to form a
main stream. On December 9
Evans christened this the Mac-
quarie River. Now, with the
ranges behind, they were on an
extensive open country which it
would require a “clever person
to describe properly.”
They dotted the country as it
passed behind them with names
—Mitchell Plains . . . Mount
Pleasant . . . Bathurst Plains.
Geese, ducks, emus still
abounded and there was water in
every valley ; but the hill timber
gave place to box and gum.
The soil was stiffer with “pieces
of alabaster rock among it, the
surface of the ground in places
quite white with it.” Not good
country to travel in with their
shoes worn out and cut to pieces,
and their grass-woven moggins
went to pieces in a few hours.
They were 29 days out, and
had covered just under 100 miles
from the Nepean. They had a
sick man now, so must centralise
their movements for the moment
around him. In the pause Evans
added another type of geographi-
cal description to the land :
“What I name corners are
spaces of ground 300 to 400
acres with grass growing thro’
within them that you can scarcely
walk through.” Little did he
know the gold that would one
day come out of one of them—
out of Sunny Corner.
The further they went west the
more their enthusiasm grew:
more plains, more winding
rivers, more hills ; valleys beauti-
ful, “as also the intervening
ridges that divide them, being
thickly covered with herbage.”
The wise surveyor could now
prophesy the destiny of this in-
terior land: “Grazers may keep
stock here to great advantage,
particularly sheep, as they like
dry healthy parts.” More rain
blew up, but it became fine and
warm on November 21 as they
halted on the fringe of the
Bathurst Plains to climb Mount
Pleasant:
The west end led me on a ridge
of beautiful hills along which I
travelled about three miles, a small
stream of water forming ponds runs
at their foot; I was gratified with
the pleasing sight of an open country
to the s.-w. of them; at the space
of seven or eight miles I could discern
the course of a river winding to the
west; I saw three large plains; the
first of them I was on, the chain of
ponds beforementioned running
through it; I feel much regret that
I am not able to travel a week or
more in that direction. I imagine the
flat open country extends for 30 or
40 miles; at the termination I can
only discern one mountain quite pale
with three peaks; I suspected an open
country lay about the s.-w. point, as
I passed, the range of hills then
obscured it from me, nor had I time
to examine it; I cannot speak too
much of the country, the increase of
stock for some hundred years cannot
overrun it.
Out by Billiwillinga, near
Chambers’ Creek, the most part
of 200 miles from Sydney, they
turned homeward. They had
penetrated nearly 100 miles
further than Blaxland’s party.
This was on December 16: “I
would most willingly proceed
farther, but the horses’ backs
being so bad ; nor can you have
an idea of the situation in
respect of our feet; with patch-
ing and mending we may manage
to reach home.”
Four days on their return
journey they had their first sight
of the native inhabitants. As
they were fishing they beheld
two women and four children
who had not known they were
there “the poor creatures
trembled and fell down with
fright ; I think they were com-
ing for water. I gave them what
fish we had, some fish-hooks,
twine and a tomahawk.... two
boys ran away ; the other two
children cried much at first. A
little while after I played with
them, they began to be good-
humored and laugh. Both of the
women were blind in their right
eye.”
They limped towards the sea,
and on Christmas Day, 1813,
were glad to camp beside the
Macquarie on the site of
Bathurst. They were, however,
so restless that they walked as
much and climbed as many hills
as usual, exclaiming at the excel-
lent pasture.
That first Christmas Day cele-
brated beyond the mountains
was “so hot the fish will not
bite; it is the only time they
have missed.”
We know what they had for
Christmas dinner, however: “I
opened my case of roasted beef.”
Evans and his party, reaching
Sydney on January 20, 1814,
were the first white men to pene-
trate the interior of Australia ;
the first to bring back specific
news that the good country there
really stretched towards infinity.
The Blaxland party had not
really crossed the ranges. Evans
made little of the hardships—
his account contrasts favorably
in that respect with Blaxland’s.
He called the ascent from Ema
Island “very regular and easy,”
advised that “12 men might clear
a good road in three months for
a cart to travel over the Moun-
tains and make the descent of
them so easy that it might be
drove down in safety.”
Macquarie was not the man
to delay action on such a pro-
ject. Six months later William
Cox was beginning the Blue
Mountains road. Six months
later, again, he was doling out
the first Christmas-presents given
in the west on the Fish River, a
few chains from where Evans
crossed —“a gill of spirits and a
new shirt” to each of his men.
He had but three bridges and
five miles of road to make to
complete his highway. Only 18
months after Evans had set out
Macquarie had ridden over the
road in his carriage, taking with
him his wife, the first white
woman to see the Bathurst coun-
try, and Lewin, his artist. On
May 7, 1815, the Governor
named the first inland city-site
on the continent Bathurst.
Evans for his work received
1000 acres of land in Tasmania
and £l2O. His men each re-
ceived £35, the free ones, Lewis
and Byrnes, land-grants, the
convicts conditional pardons and
small land-grants also.
+ +
The leader, who had been the
first man to explore the Illawarra
in 1812, lived on to discover the
Lachlan and the Castlereagh, to
make the reputation of Oxley as
an explorer. He retired in 1825
as surveyor-general of Tas-
mania (after many a quarrel with
Governor Arthur) on a pension
of £2OO a year.
From 1832 he kept a book-
shop and circulating library in
Bridge-street, Sydney, hard by
The Bulletin office; but after
10 years he moved to Hobart,
and there died just a century
ago —the same year as Lawson
—completely forgotten at that
stage by his countrymen.
Blaxland survived him a year,
and when he committed suicide
was known to the newspapers
only as “a very old settler.”
Wentworth, the last of the Blue
Mountains explorers, outlived
them all, dying in 1872, but not
forgotten. He lived into an age
when their fame as explorers had
begun to be revived and Aus-
tralians were starting to be
conscious that they had a history.


SPORTING NOTIONS
Tattersall’s (Sydney) Club
Cup, to be run at Randwick
tomorrow (January 1), is one of
Australia’s historic staying events.
It dates back to the ’sixties, and
has been won by some of the
greatest horses to have worn a
bridle.
Tatt’s Cup winners include
Poitrel, a subsequent Melbourne
Cup winner with lOst.; The
Fortune Hunter ; Chantmerle ;
Tom McCarthy; Quiver; Sir
William ; Long Tom ; and Lord
Orville, Some early win-
ners were great stayers and good
mixers. For many years the Cup
was run at two miles. Three
months after winning the Cup
Sir William won the A.J.C. Don-
caster Handicap (1890). Quiver,
the 1896 Cup winner, dead-
heated in a Champion Stakes
run at three miles.
In Tattersall’s first subsidised
Cup (1860), then on the A.J.C.
programme, the mighty Archer
was a contestant. Not then
ready, he later landed the first
two Melbourne Cups (1861 and
1862).
An interesting dual two-year-
old winner at the A.J.C. summer
meeting at Randwick was
Krakatoa, raced by Singapore
sportsman Runme Shaw, who
recently paid a flying visit to
Sydney. Krakatoa cost 1000
guineas, the bid of Randwick
trainer Tommy Smith, who got
the colt ready to win at his
second race start. He also won
at his third outing, on each occa-
sion beating Gulzean, who had
earlier beaten him into third
place at Warwick Farm.
Krakatoa is a brother to
Channel Flight, recent winner at
first start in Singapore, and to
Channel Patrol, a winner at
Moonee Valley. Whittier and
Accarak, two fine stayers racing
about 20 years ago, belong to
the same family. Krakatoa is
by Channel Swell (imp.) from
Vigilant (sister to Prince Verity
and Joystream), by Midstream
(imp.), and traces back to Wal-
lace, son of Carbine. Thus
Krakatoa is bred on sound stay-
ing lines.
“The way he did the job he
could have won the race had it
been a two-miler,” said Bill
Cook after Carioca had landed
the A.J.C. Summer Cup (13 fur-
longs) at Randwick in the smart
time of 2.43 i, fastest since New
Zealander Malagigi scored in
1940. Carioca cleared right
away, beating Skystreamer, with
limit - weighted Blank Music
third. Rumyle set a fairly fast
pace, which made the race to
order for Carioca, who made
light of his 8.10, which included
a penalty of 101 b. for his Villiers
success.
Carioca’s seven consecutive
wins for £8162 must have been
most gratifying to lessee-trainer
P. (“Duck”) Hoysted and to
jockey W. Cook; both did
handsomely from a financial
viewpoint. Once again doubles-
bookmakers got out of bother,
as few coupled the two Cariocas
(Villiers and Cup). If punters
had been set a price it would
have been at “special” and lean
odds, as doubles fielders rarely
bet against the same horse for a
main double, while stable
doubles also are quoted at
“special” odds. In 1932 Mag-
netic, raced by Randwick trainer
Stan Lamond, had a winning
sequence of four, culminating
with the Villiers Stakes.
Australasian records show that
upwards of 20 horses have
run up winning sequences of
from seven to 19 victories.
Heading the lists, with 19, are
two New Zealanders, Gloaming
and Desert Gold, while Ajax
had 18, Mainbrace (N.Z.) 17,
and Carbine and Bernborough
15 each. Champion Phar Lap
won 14 races on end. Carioca’s
seven were equalled by the
much-better-performed Delta,
whose best win was in the 1951
Melbourne Cup. Carioca’s list
comprised handicaps only, but
it has been a brilliant perform-
ance just the same, as he varied
his distances from six to 13 fur-
longs. Shackle Bar, a South Aus-
tralian galloper, won 20 succes-
sive races at provincial and
picnic meetings.
A consistent galloper can earn
quite a lot of money from minor
places, even though he may not
be equal to winning more than
an odd event or two. For
example, Sydney moderate Brita-
vah has accumulated £2585 in
stakes so far this season, yet
he has won one race only, a
Randwick novice worth £690 in
mid-October. Five seconds and
five thirds are on his list, one
third, in the Metropolitan, being
worth £6OO. His party might
have lost money on him in
straight-out investments, but
consistent minor-placegetting has
brought satisfactory results dur-
ing recent weeks.
- • • •
Gay Lad, winner of both the
V.R.C. and A.J.C. St. Legers in
1946, is sire of Eager Lad, easy
winner of the Granville Stakes
at Moonee Valley last Saturdav.
Dam of the colt is Miss Con-
stant, a Constant Son (imp.)
mare from imported Tendresse
by Somme Kiss. Baloo, runner-
up to Eager Lad, is by imported
Kaa from Edith, a mare by
Amalfi (imp.), and was bred in
Soqth Australia. Kaa, a sire
unknown to Eastern States en-
thusiasts, is a son of Colombo
and Lioness by Phalaris.
An interesting runner in Sea-
craft’s Juvenile Novice at Rand-
wick last Saturday was Artillery,
a nicely-turned chestnut colt by
Helios (imp.) from former
champion mare Flight. It was
Artillery’s first race start, and
his sixth at the finish wasn’t a
bad effort. Judging by the bet-
ting he wasn’t fancied, and he
looked above himself in con-
dition. Artillery is raced by
Brian Crowley, a member of the
A.J.C. committee, who also raced
Flight, winner of £30,627 from
24 firsts, 19 seconds and nine
thirds. She started m 65 races.
Flight was bred in 1940, and her
first progeny, Pegasus, was foaled
in 1948. Artillery will be all the
better for his race. He is
trained at Randwick by Charlie
McLoughlin.
Aged grey gelding Blue Flag
hasn’t done a lot of racing, but
was far too good for eight oppo-
nents in TattersaU’s Carrington
Stakes at Randwick, first leg
of that club’s midsummer
double. To win races it is
always a good idea to employ
the best brains and expert
horsemanship, and Neville Sell-
wood, Sydney’s leading jockey,
combines these two attributes.
He was seen at his best on Blue
Flag, who narrowly defeated
English Standard, with Hum-
ming Top third. The Carring-
ton was run in 1.1 If, average
time for the six furlongs. Blue
Flag favors firm going, and
hasn’t raced much in winter
months. Six wins at Randwick
are on his list. Pointer to suc-
cess was his third at prior start,
also at Randwick, to La Hey
and Spearby in the Malabar
Handicap. That pair missed a
place in the Carrington, in which
favorite Magic Touch finished
weakly.
Byrsa, surprise winner of the
Virginia Stakes at Moonee Val-
ley, raced in joint ownership of
R. C. Reid and R. A. Parker
(who trains the filly), is another
of the long line of successful
Dhoti’s. This importation has
had many winners, particularly
in Melbourne. Byrsa should
soon add to her winnings, as she
is well bred, her dam, Astolat,
being a daughter of Portofino
(imp.) and Waltzing Lily, a
brilliant mare of several sea-
sons ago and one of Beau Fils’s
progeny. Waltzing Lily won,
among other races, the Caul-
field’s Memsie Stakes (1934).
Byrsa had been sold to her new
owners for 525 guineas about
a week before she won at 25 to
1, the form being an improve-
ment on prior efforts. Last
"Ar-r, forget it. Bill — he's not poisonous!"
Saturday’s race was worth
more than her purchase money,
and her new owners had a
golden opportunity at the price
for winning handsomely at little
outlay. Bob Parker, trainer of
the filly, was early associated
with the track-riding of Phar
Lap.
Raced by M. V. Point, of
Sledmere Stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
Captain Theo covered more than
three-and-a-half miles in races at
Randwick last week for two wins
and a narrow defeat for first by
Skystreamer in the AJ.C.
December Handicap. He won
the AJ.C. Handicap and Tatt’s
Denman Handicap at good
prices, carrying a penalty of
61b. in the latter event. Trainer
Bob Stuart had Captain Theo fit
dk hands could make any horse.
Stuart expected to win all three
races, and Captain Theo almost
succeeded. In the last of
the three races he finished
brilliantly. Owner of the natty
chestnut told all friends he was
just as confident of winning the
last race on Saturday as he had
been on Boxing Day. Stuart is
a keen trainer. He rarely leaves
his horses and closely supervises
their every movement. His best
win to date was with First
Chapter in the AJ.C. Breeders’
Plate, also raced by M. V. Point.
Owners of Vital Link were at
Randwick while the gelding was
winning his first race at Brisbane
on Saturday, the First Cassam
Maiden, one mile. As starting-
price was 6-to-4 on it seemed a
long way to send the gelding for
his initial success. Maybe Bris-
bane’s easier fields and the
change of air will give him a
chance to atone for consistent
failures in Sydney, where he had
cost the stable a fortune. In his
last 12 Sydnev starts he filled one
minor placing only, third in a
Randwick Novice three-year-old
worth £B5.
Auckland’s £12,500 Cup, until
recently rivalling the Melbourne
Cup so far as stakemoney is con-
cerned, was on Boxing Day
won by outsider Rev from
Noble Prince, with Keith third.
Twenty-four started in the two-
miler, and Rev’s time, 3.19|,
was a New Zealand record.
Davey Jones, who had raced
earlier in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and Reformed, third in
the last Melbourne Cup, finished
in the ruck.
The Auckland Cup was first
programmed at Ellerslie in 1874,
so it is an historic Dominion
staying test. Ten years ago
champion Kindergarten won it
with 10.2, but no other horse
has scored with more than 9.12.
Rev’s time beat the previous
record, 3.20, made two years ago
by Beaumaris, one of the
Dominion’s best performers, and
compares favorably with the
Australian record, 3.19 f, made
by Comic Court in his slashing
Melbourne Cup success in 1950.
Tasmanian tho r o u ghbred-
breeding continues to prosper.
From a meagre number 10 years
ago, the “home-breds” lifted the
best part of a third of Tas-
mania’s races last season, and
should have about a similar re-
sult in the current term. Legis-
lator, a half-brother to The
Trump, is enjoying a fine run,
and already this season has sired
20 winners, mostly owned by
W. R. Menzies, vice-chairman
of the Tasmanian Turf Club.
The big entry of 63 for the
Hobart Cup, run next month, has
only twice been exceeded during
the 79 years’ history of this old-
time event. In 1948 73 nomina-
tions were received and last year
64. Fourteen mainland nomina-
tions have been handed in.
Prominent Melbourne owner
W. R. Kemball, who has not
previously patronised Tasmanian
Cup carnivals during the 35 years
he has raced horses in New
Zealand and Australia, has
entered Milford and El wood.
Royal Release, who won the Cup
last season, and 1951 winner
Tarcombe again figure in the
entry list. An interesting horse
in the list is Prince Aly, winner
of the last Australian steeple-
chase.
Two ’teen-age riders created a
favorable impression at Rand-
wick on Saturday. Ron Condon
(6st. 51b.), apprenticed to Rand-
wick trainer Frank McGrath,
rode his first winner, Felcatch’,
in the Novice mile-and-a-half’
while Bill York, having his first
race ride, finished second on
rank outsider Star King. York
is attached to Dan Lewis’s
Randwick stable and received
his ticket a couple of days before
making his race debut. He
handled Star King with skill and
almost brought off a first-up win.
The midget—he weighs sst. 71b.
would have had bookmakers
cheering loudly had he been
successful. They were looking
for a much-needed “skinner”
following a succession of heavily-
backed winners over two days’
racing. Condon gave a fine
display, exhibiting patience until
it was time to dash to the front
and on to victory.
Australian apprentices are on
a good wicket compared with
their English counterparts. In
England the apprentice might
ride odd gallops during the week,
especially fast work, but most
of the horses are ridden at exer-
cise by leading horsemen who
travel the countryside by train
and plane and ride in races
almost daily. English owners are
reluctant to put apprentices on
horses, and the young lads don’t
get anywhere near the oppor-
tunities available to Australian
riders under 21 years of age.
Masters of Australian boys
make every endeavor to secur
mounts for them, and make cer
tain the lads retain fitness b
riding as many horses as possih e
in track gallops each morning
Edgar Britt, on holiday in Syd
ney, has been impressed by th
riding ability of the loca
apprentices.
* * ♦ *
The argument between Sout
Africa and Australia continuer
on Christmas Eve in Melbourne
Cheetham won the toss, an
when the Springboks mad
“only” 227 the “experts” ex
plained that they had faile
badly to take advantage of firs
use of the wicket. Best knocc
was Murray’s 51 ; Lindwall an
Miller best bowlers.
Australia then upset the ex
perts with “only” 243—surel
reasonable enough in non
Bradman days. Top-score
(82) was McDonalcf, very lucky
according to the critics, to b
in the team. Miller batted
brightly, out to a superb catch
by Endean, later to top the
century without giving a chance
S’Africa’s catching and ground
fielding, splendid. Among the
bowlers, spinners Tayfield and
Mansell shared honors.
In Adelaide, Ken Archer (Q.
won the toss but sent in the
locals, as he had previously done
in Perth. Test selector Riding
answered some recent criticism
with two nice knocks for S. Aus
(90 and 74). In a fine debut
S.A.’s 18-year-old ’keeper
Ducker, replacing Langley
helped to get rid of half the
Archers in their first innings.
• • • •
As a preliminary to the seconc
Test, the S’Africans took on
Vic. Country team at Ballarat.
S. Africa (closed) 5-305 (Waite
107, Innes 55); Vic. Country 83
(Mansell 5-40) and 5-142 (Orr
58 n. 0.).
Before indulging in Sheffield
Shield festivities with S. Aus.
on Christmas Eve, the Queens-
landers had been to Perth, but
found the Westralians a bit too
good. W.A., by 101 runs.
Young Ron Archer turned on a
rattling good double, and the
game unearthed a young W.A.
fast-medium bowler with pro-
mise, Gorringe. Both sides’
second digs were only two-
batsman affairs, W.A. 217 and
267 (Langdon 118, Meuleman
83; R. Archer 7-62) ; Q. 241
(Tallon 67) and 142 (R. Archer
86 n. 0., Mackay 40; Gorringe
8-56).
“K.R.”: West Indian opener
Jeff Stollmeyer, deputy to God-
dard in Australia last year, has
been made skipper for this year’s
games against India, though
Goddard was a candidate for the
job. This is not altogether un-
expected. Goddard, gentleman
and fine sportsman as he is, did
not seem to have the cricket
generalship of Stollmeyer. As
instances, his agreeing to an
itinerary which plunged his side
into a Test almost as soon as
they got here, and his tactics at
the end of the fourth Test, when
Ring and Bill Johnston won the
day for Australia, were costly
errors of judgment.
Every dog a
gentleman
Like your dog to come in-
stantly when you call? Not to
jump up on guests .or furni-
ture? To sit outside a shop till
you return?
January Reader’s Digest tells
how Helene Walker, inspired
by the intelligence of her
poodle, founded an obedience
training school for dogs—how
similar schools, now situated
round the world without
using punishments—are teach-
ing even the most stubborn
pets good manners.
Each month Reader’s Digest
brings you articles of lasting
interest, condensed from the
worlds leading magazines and
current books. Don’t miss the
35 stimulating features in
January issue one shilling
and sixpence at all -newsagents
and bookstalls.


E
f > My<
a
W % '
v»»,«
wvir|
: i
: -
*■*
as
''
CAPSTAN Special Mild
RED PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
Behind the Iron Curtain
PLANNING FROM
THE ELBE TO THE PACIFIC
By B. D. SINGER
ONE of Stalin’s great “dis-
coveries” in his recent
lengthy and much-
publicised article in the
“Bolshevik” (a fortnightly paper
for intellectuals) was that after
the last war “the single all-
embracing world market disin-
tegrated, so that now we have
two parallel world markets.”
Soviet economists, bound to
follow their leader and comment
on the “new” thesis, have been
reluctant to disclose full facts
about the situation of the
Soviet-controlled market for
these facts are largely State
secrets. One could not expect
the curtain to be lifted, but at
least a veil has been raised.
From what they wrote, from
what was said at the All-Union
Congress in October, or the
Moscow economic conference
in April, through a close
scrutiny of other sources, it is
now possible to sketch at least
a tentative picture of the
economic collaboration of
countries within the Soviet bloc.
As a Soviet economist dared to
point out to Stalin, the disintegra-
tion of the old world market is
not an entirely new phenomenon,
since it started with the Bolshevik
revolution of 1917. Yet,
undoubtedly, the process was
hastened by the war against
Hitler; the new “democratic”
market now covers nearly one-
third of the world, and its separa-
tion from the rest is becoming
increasingly rigid. Indeed, a
special study just published in
Geneva by the Economic Com-
mission of Europe shows that the
flow of goods between East and
West has by now been reduced
almost to a trickle.
Trade with the East now
accounts for less than three per
cent, of the turnover of Western
Europe, and the latter —East
Europe’s traditional outlet
takes now less than a fifth of
East Europe’s total exports. It
is among themselves that these
countries now normally trade,
and for the average member of
the Soviet bloc the share of its
partners in the total trade turn-
over has risen to about three-
quarters. Thus, while East-West
trade is steadily declining,
exchanges between the members
of the Soviet bloc have —accord-
ing to the Soviet Vice-Premier
A. I. Mikoyan—more than
trebled between 1948 and 1952.
The year 1948 is a convenient
starting-point, as it marked the
final break between free Europe
and Soviet Europe and a reversal
of Moscow’s policy towards its
satellites. The launching of the
Marshall Plan showed that the
Western Powers would not let
Europe collapse. The Russians
realised that the post-war period
of fluidity was ended in Europe,
that the positions of the rival
camps had solidified and the
cold-war had become positional,
Hence they switched over from
dismantling the industries of
occupied countries to consolida-
tion °f their sphere of influence,
Their counter to the Marshall
Plan was to set-up in January,
1949, the Council of Mutual
Economic Aid to co-ordinate the
economic development and trade
of the c ovl>f Vjninn Pnland
r JhLlovJkia Hnn.lrv
ah ° S l° Vak ! a ’ B , HunBary>
R ilnd Bulgaria These
the original members, and
in tde next y ear tde y were joined
d y Eastern Germany. The
admission into the partnership of
tdl . s country, which had been the
chief source of Soviet repara-
tions, was a clear sign of a new
phase.
Russia is, obviously, the senior
partner in the organisation. It
decides the targets to be set,
controls their fulfilment and
watches over the export quotas,
A. I. Mikoyan, the former Soviet
Minister of Foreign Trade, who
had resigned his post at the time
when the council was being set-
up, has apparently been entrusted
with its leadership. Official
propaganda claims that the
By special arrangement with the “Economist,” this
Bulletin feature, giving up-to-the-minute informa-
tion on current developments “Behind the Iron
Curtain,” appears each month.
U.S.S.R. is also the chief supplier
0 f credits and technical aid to
other members. There may be
some truth in this boast, because
it now pays Russia to expand
rapidly the economy of the
countries within its orbit,
After the war Russia had
shown that it could be quite
ruthless in the policy of repara-
tions. Its dismantling was
thorough and extended from the
Elbe to Manchuria. This policy
was dictated by the extent of
Russia’s war-damage and the
resulting poverty; a mood of
revenge and envy ; the belief that
the territorial division of Europe
would be only temporary. It
certainly paid economic
dividends speeding-up Soviet
recovery—though these were
probably outweighed by the poli-
tical damage done by it.
Anyhow, once the Russians de-
cided that the new demarcation-
line was as good as permanent,
they ceased to think in terms of
immediate advantage. One does
not destroy countries which one
intends to integrate and absorb.
Stalin decided that he could
“build Socialism” up to the Elbe.
Those who expected Russia to
use its new conquests merely as
suppliers of foodstuffs and raw
materials were quickly proved
wrong. From 1950 onwards the
already rapid planned tempo of
industrialisation in Hungary,
Czechoslovakia and Poland was
speeded-up still further, and an
even greater stress was laid on
developing heavy industry.
Indeed, the industrial revolution
is being carried out in these
countries at such a breakneck
speed and so much on the Soviet
model that these countries have
been suffering severe shortages of
foodstuffs and consumer goods.
The stepping-up of targets has
been accompanied by a planned
division of labor between
countries. The East European
economies were not comple-
mentary in the past; they are
now to be made so by specialisa-
tion. For example, although
engineering is to be developed
in the whole area, different
countries are to put the emphasis
on different branches. Thus,
Czechoslovakia is to concentrate
on heavy engineering. Eastern
Germany will also concentrate
on heavy engineering, with parti-
cular stress on electrical equip-
ment and also on precision
instruments. Hungary is to
specialise in light engineering,
while Poland, the chief coal
supplier, gets almost the
monopoly in producing railway
equipment.
The great mystery in the work
of the council is the price other
members must pay for Russian
“leadership.” The secrecy sur-
rounding price relations in the
trade with the Soviet Union pre-
vents any comparisons with the
level prevailing on the non-
Soviet market. The apologists
of the council claim that Russia,
even if it extracts from the satel-
lites more than it gives them, has
helped these countries —through
an exported social revolution —
to speed-up their tempo of pro-
duction, and Russia takes only
a slice of the growing national
cake. True, the official statistics
of these countries boast of
annual increases in their national
incomes of about 20 per cent,
Yet how much of it finds its way
across the Soviet border still
remains anybody’s guess.
On the other hand, the range
of commodities entering this
trade is known. Russia’s chief
imports are Polish coal, Czech
heavy-engineering products, Ger-
man electrical equipment and
precision instruments and
Rumanian oil. Among consumer
goods are shoes from Czechoslo-
vakia, textiles from Poland and
Czechoslovakia, some foodstuffs
from Rumania, Hungary and
Bulgaria. In exchange Russia
exports raw cotton, non-ferrous
metals, grain—in case of emerg-
ency—pig-iron for East Ger-
many and some specialised plant
equipment.
Already in 1949 two-thirds of
Soviet trade was with other
countries within its bloc. The
proportion has now risen to
about three-quarters of a total
trade turnover which—it is
claimed—is now three times
higher than before the war.
Generally trade is now facili-
tated by long-term agreements
which enable import and export
figures to be dovetailed with the
national production plans. In
1950 trade pacts were signed be-
tween the Soviet Union and
other members for periods vary-
ing from four to six years ; they
planned an average increase in
the volume of exchange of be-
tween 50 and 60 per cent.
The machinery of the council
was already working when a new
partner was brought into the
alliance. China, if not nominally
a member, has by now become
at least a close associate. Such
a development was to be ex-
pected after the victory of the
Chinese revolution. The process
was, however, precipitated by the
Korean war. Last year the
Soviet bloc already—according
to official statistics—took about
three-quarters of China’s exports
and sent two-thirds of its im-
ports. Nor was this increasing
share due merely to a dwindling
turnover. It is claimed that the
volume of trade in 1950 was
equal to the 1936 level, that it
was exceeded in 1951 and that it
should be much greater still in
the current year. Thus, soya-
beans, eggs, tea, tungsten and
antimony, silk and bristles have
been added to the council s lists
°f imports and re-exports. In
exchange the bloc will supply
armaments, machinery and
equipment in quantities deter-
mined by Stalin, or bargained
for between him and Mao.
Thus Stalin the “isolationist,”
the theoretician of “Socialism in
one country” finds himself now
at the head of a gigantic experi-
ment in planning from the Elbe
to Vladivostok, and possibly to
Peking. In Communist Europe
the system is already closely knit
and the plans integrated. Policy
decisions made in the Kremlin
are being translated into national
targets by planners of nine
nations. The economic structure
of Eastern Europe is rapidly
changing. The large pre-war
surpluses of foodstuffs and raw
materials which the West
would like to buy—disappear in
the process. The various plans
are geared to one another.
In these circumstances a re-
turn to the pre-war pattern of
trade between East and West is
virtually impossible. At inter-
vals, when the political tension
may be somewhat relaxed, Eas-
tern Europe may step-up its
westward exports of coal or
grain, thus alleviating somewhat
Western Europe’s dollar short-
age. In exchange it would buy
machinery‘and equipment which
it still badly needs. But the new
general pattern of trade has
come to stay. The Council of
Mutual Economic Aid can be
swept away only by war or it
may be scrapped if its functions
are taken over by the Caspian,
Moscow’s own Central Planning
Commission. There may be some
small future for East-West trade
in Europe, but never again on
the old terms.
Wave-break
This, the sunlit flower closing into the dark
Green leaves of the sea. The wave cannot poise
A smooth bud on the branches of the wind s
'Carillon tree, but like time’s other toys
Must bleed its colors on the nursery floor
Before the destroying laughter.
So, this love
Has combed beyond its sea-swell on a word,
To shrink its fruitless blossoms to the sun
And burn the night away with phosphorous eyes.
QUEENSLAND.
VAL VALLIS.
Reflection
Separated—and by a veil
thinner than silver, less than jade:
water that would seem too frail
to split a personality,
and drive this sharp, immediate wedge,
quick as a mirror or mercury,
between—us?—between this and that,
for I am he, and shamelessly
I play Narcissus yet.
The face bent from the bank; the face
adrift within the concave bow
beneath: halves of a circle space
can never join to make complete,
or I—but I am whole again,
who, moving, grasped too soon—too late.
n.s.w.
MARGARET IRVIN.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE PRAGUE TRIALS
Communists the world over,
including Australia, have tagged
the death sentence on the U.S.
atom spies, Julius and Ethel
Rosenberg, as “legal murder.”
At the same time, and by not the
least of their extraordinary
somersaults, they are volubly
satisfied, with the justice of the
Prague “trials” in which the
Corns sent 11 of their fellows to
death and three to life imprison-
ment.
Here follows & representative
cross-section of the other point
of view on the Prague “trials”:
London “Economist ” ; “A
travesty of justice more bestial
and absurd than any ever con-
jured up by a novelist. Revo-
lutionary leaders and Czech
Communists whose lives had
passed between underground
and barricade, men who had
survived Nazi torture camps,
rose before the judges of the
people’s courts to plead for their
own death. Incredible though it
may seem, wives wrote letters to
the august court demanding the
execution of their husbands, and
sons testified against their fathers
with the implacable gravity of
children playing a lunatic game.
“One of the sons of the
accused, Thomas Frejka, wrote
asking that this father, ‘a creature
who no longer deserves to be
called a man,’ should be exe-
cuted.
“ The boy’s letter closes on an
ultimate note of horror: T ask
that this letter be shown to my
father and that, if possible, 1
may be given an opportunity to
tell him personally what I have
written in it.’
“The mechanics of it all had
been perfected 15 years ago dur-
ing the great Moscow purge
trials: the prosecutor screaming
out against the accused, the
defending lawyers asking the
court to forgive their temerity in
undertaking the case, and the
condemned pouring out their
confessions in toneless abjection.
No moment, perhaps, was more
terrible than on the last day,
when the presiding judge asked
whether the defendants wished
to appeal. As one, the 11
daomed men rose and demanded
that no appeal be allowed and
that the sentence of hanging be
carried out at once.”
London “Observer” ; “Four
main objectives: To explain
away the failure of Czech
industry to supply Russia with
the engineering goods and steel
expected. To win Arab support
by emphasis on the wickedness
of Jews and the plots of Israel.
To discipline the Czech Com-
munist party, which was the
closest to the West for reasons
of history and geography. To
remove deviationists. They were
many Czech Communists who
felt some contempt for Moscow
as a distant and barbarian
capital. Such men were genuine
Marxist-Communists, but lack
of enthusiasm for Russia made
them suspect of Titoism.”
“New Statesman”: “An
important motive was probably
to divert on to the Jews some
of the general resentment which
now attaches to the Czech Com-
munist party. In Czechoslovakia,
as elsewhere in Central and
South-Eastern Europe, both the
party intellectuals and the key
men in the secret police are
largely Jewish in origin. The
man in the street, therefore, has
been inclined to equate the party
cadres with the Jews, and to
blame the ‘Jewish Communists’
for all his troubles. In this trial
11 of the accused were con-
sistently referred to as ‘Zionist’
Communists and ‘bourgeois
Jewish nationalists,’ and a quite
deliberate effort was made to
suggest that the party was now
being purged of the unpatriotic
Jewish elements which had made
it unpopular.”
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“These trials have nothing to do
with the guilt or innocence of
the accused. The judicial
machinery is merely part of a
stage-setting to pillory those who
are either the defeated side in
an internecine squabble within
the ruling clique or scapegoats
for some fiasco which cannot be
concealed. To a civilised mind
the spectacle of men like Slansky
and Sling and Clementis beating
their breasts and confessing to
sins which they cannot have
committed is both horrifying
and incomprehensible....On
the victims themselves there is
no need to waste sympathy.
They sent many others to a like
fate, and are only victims of the
terrorism by which they lived.”
“Manchester Guardian”:
“Why the trial is being held at
this time is, as always, a matter
for conjecture. In a conspira-
torial and ‘monolithic’ body like
London “Daily Express”
“BUT WE’RE PERFECTLY PEACEFUL—THE RUSSIAN ARMY HASN’T FIRED A SHOT”
the Communist party a struggle
for power may find no issue
other than the utter destruction
of one of the contenders.”
“News Chronicle’’ ; “The
tragedy of this is that we are
witnessing the Nazi technique in
operation all over again under
another 'name. Everything is
there, including the pathological
desire to make scapegoats of the
Jews.”
“New York Herald Tribune’’:
“A warning that Communism's
dark design is taking on even
blacker shades, that it does not
scorn- to use the worst forms of
racial hatreds in its quest for
power and, specifically, that it
may be plotting an intensified
campaign to set the Arab world
aflame. The cynicism with
which Communism propa-
gandises through the hangman’s
rope, and fans evil passions to
gain its ends, has been clearly
established. But the efficacy of
these techniques of terror, trans-
parent though they may be, must
never be underestimated.”
“New York Times” : “All that
can be said of the men con-
demned in Prague is that they
were tried by their peers. When
in power they operated under
the same jungle law that is now
applied to them; only a little
while ago they were the supreme
judges meting out the same kind
of ‘justice’ to others.”
“Daily Mail” : “We know that
nothing of natural repute now
seems to be held sacred behind
the Iron Curtain, but it was
sickening to read with what
devilish zeal the son of one
accused and the wife of another
denounced their kin and
demanded the extreme penalty,
as though they were prosecutors,
‘for the sake of the party.’ ”
“Daily Herald”: “Trotsky,
Zinoviev, Bukharin; Rajc and
Kostov and Gomulka and
Pauker ; now the Czechs. Who
comes next? Shall we see the
day when it is discovered that
Molotov has for years been a
tool of imperialist warmongers
and that Mao Tse-tung is an ally
of plutocracy?”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “Evi-
dence of association with
Western politicians is easily dis-
covered when an accused man
has spent part of the war years
in London or Paris. It can be
distorted to suit Soviet policy at
any particular moment. Mr.
Vyshinsky should perhaps be
careful. He has been seen hob-
nobbing with Mr. Eden in New
York. It is a while since there
was a good-going treason trial
in Moscow.”
Marxian Nightmare
In an editorial comment on the
fact that the United States will
soon have 7,000,000 men and
women working on defence con-
tracts, and another 3,600,000 in
the services, “New York Times”
cautions that “it would be sad,
indeed, if we fell into the illusion
that only by pouring billions into
the economically wasteful goods
of war could we find work for
all.
“With what is now known of
economic processes we need not
be forever victims of the boom-
and-bust cycle. What is now
being demonstrated by the pre-
paredness programme is that we
have the capacity to create an
economy of plenty that would
make previous economies seem
thin and Spartan. The Only
impediment—and a vast and
dismal impediment it is—is the
threat of war.
“This is the point at which
capitalism in the United States
has arrived more than a century
after the Communist manifesto.
It is one of the tragic ironies of
our time that about all that
prevents us from building the
physical framework of an earthly
paradise is the Marxian dream—
or nightmare—conceived so long
ago in the slums of London and
now used as an instrument of
tyranny and impoverishment.”
U.N.O. Critics
When President-elect Eisen-
hower visited the General
Assembly Hall of U.N.O. in New
York he was credited with say-
ing “This building, the people in
it, and their work are in sum the
symbol of the free world’s hopes
for a peaceful and secure
future.”
His optimism was not shared
by London “Financial Times”
which, stopping a little short of
flattery, said “The l)nited
Nations is quite without power
of action in the internal affairs
of any country: it has no juris-
diction, no sanctions, no rights,
no authority. Powerless, it can
only debate and declaim —and
to what end? Not the allaying
of trouble, for the procedure is
utterly hostile to that, but its
inflaming.”
That opinion was shared and
enlarged upon by a London
“Daily Telegraph” correspondent
who, taking three quoted
examples of “real successes by
the United Nations,” found
precious little “real success” in
any of them. In the first
dispute (in Persia in 1946)
the real victor was not
U.N., but Qavam-es-Sultaneh,
“who induced the Russians to
quit the northern territories in
return for oil-concessions which
they never got.”
Then there was Palestine,
where “U.N. produced, first,, a
partition plan which was dropped
as unworkable almost as soon
■as it was, issued, then a Truce
Commission and a Conciliation
Commission whose activities sel-
dom, if ever,, had any influence
on the fighting in Palestine.
“Resolutions and injunctions
by the Security Council or the
General Assembly were ob-
served by the Israelis and the
Arabs only when it suited them,
and when it did not suit them
they were discarded with con-
tumely. What stability there is
in Palestine today was achieved
solely by military action on both
sides and in defiance of the
United Nations.
“Even the plan to interna-
tionalise Jerusalem, to which the
world attaches so much import-
ance, has so far failed. The
Israelis have now made the Holy
City virtually their capital, and,
unless the various Powers are
prepared to use force to alter the
city’s present status, even this
modest United Nations sugges-
tion will have been thwarted.”
Finally 4 and of melancholy
interest to Australia, there
was the Indonesian dispute,
which “resulted in the Dutch
losing most of their East
Indies colonies. The Dutch had
certainly conceded the principle
of independence for Indonesia
as early as 1943, but under The
Hague agreement of 1949 for
which the United Nations ’took
much credit, they were forced
to surrender sovereignty over
many territories which were
originally intended to form part
ol an Indonesian Federation
under the sovereignty of the
Netherlands Crown. The Hague
agreement went far beyond any-
thing they envisaged immediately
after the war. Yet they were
badgered into it by the United
Nations, whose jurisdiction in the
dispute they did not even recog-
nise.
During the whole time the
case was before the Security
Council the Dutch were sub-
jected to considerable diplomatic
pressuie from the United States,
Australia and India. But if
things had rested with The
Hague agreement the damage
might have been limited. As it
was, the Djakarta Government
tore up the agreement a few
months after its signature, while
the Dutch sat powerless by and
the United Nations were busily
engaged on other matters.
Now the Dutch are clinging
to their last remaining territory
in the East Indies —Western New
Guinea. But the movement for
ousting the Dutch from the
whole of Indonesia, set afoot
and abetted by the United
Nations, is going from strength
to strength. Even territories
which had no desire to be placed
under the control of the Djakarta
Republicans have been swal-
lowed up one by one.
“There is nothing the United
Nations need be proud of in the
Indonesian dispute. Even the
Australians, who were in the
vanguard of the anti-Dutch
movement in 1946-47, are now
beginning to realise the folly of
their earlier attitude and are
supporting the Dutch in their
stand over Western New Guinea.
‘"Strategic interests have
brought about Canberra’s change
of policy. Australia is the Man-
datory Power for Eastern New
Guinea. But these strategic in-
terests were just as evident in
1946 as they are today. The fact
of the matter is that at the time
both Australia and India
were bent on usiqg the United
Nations for their own ends, just
as the Russians, and, indeed,
many Western Powers, are doing
today.”
Not-er—Likely
A fairly wide selection of
Press views on the ills of and
remedies for the financial posi-
tion of the British Common-
wealth was given here last week.
One pretty common suggestion
was that Australia should modify
its industrial ambitions and get
back to the land. If the opinion
of London “Financial Times” on
that notion seems not far from
cynical, it also seems more than
likely.
“It is said,” the paper reports,
“that Mr. Menzies ought to cut
down on his programme for the
industrialisation of Australia.
Were he to do so, he would be-
come a very effective election
agent for his opponent, the
Leader of the Australian Opposi-
tion, Dr. Evatt.
“According to newspaper wise-
acres, South Africa ought also
to starve out some of her light
industries that mushroomed dur-
ing the war.
“In ancient Athens there was
a political leader named
Aristides the Just, whose
proudest boast was that his
decisions were never influenced
by fear of how the people would
vote. Neither Mr. Menzies nor
Dr. Malan is likely to emulate
Aristides the Just. The opinions
of their electors weigh even more
heavily with them than the
problems of sterling.
“If one accepts the view put
forward by Mr. Menzies and Mr.
Havenga, the future of their
countries depends on the pro-
vision of capital for their steady
industrial development. London
today is a capital market which
has almost run out of capital.
The Commonwealth Prime
Ministers must surely recognise
this.
“Far from being able to pro-
vide for the development of new
industries in the Commonwealth,
Britain is without the means of
replacing the plant and equip-
ment of its own industries. Mr.
Butler’s tax collectors are taking
away far more than half of the
earnings of every business in this
country; they are both sleeping
and grasping partners in
industry ; and they insist on their
takings being paid in cash,


irrespective of any question of
allowances for replacement or
development.
“As a result of their activities,
industrial research is being
starved. Famous companies,
such as Rolls-Royce, Courtaulds
and De Havillands, that have
made Britain’s name celebrated
throughout the world for the
perfection of new inventions,
could never have been built up
if the present system of taxation
had existed when they were
started.”
Increased Gold Price?
Tossed around hopefully as
one means of narrowing the
dollar gap, the idea of a higher
dollar price for gold does not
appear to get a very warm
welcome in overseas quarters.
London “Economist,” noting
that the Eisenhower Administra-
tion is heavily weighted with
businessmen whose views are
very likely represented by the
American Chamber of Com-
merce in London, quotes the
views of that chamber on the
subject;
“There is one thing the U.S.A.
should not do, and that is
increase the dollar price of gold.
There is constant agitation, par-
ticularly by goldmining interests
and investors and speculators in
goldmining shares, to induce the
United States to raise the dollar
price of gold. More responsible
circles are now advocating an
increase in the price of gold to
assist in correcting the imbalance
between the dollar and the
sterling areas.
“The board of this chamber
is unalterably opposed to raising
the dollar price of gold because
in its judgment it would provide
only a superficial and largely
temporary alleviation in the
dollar-sterling imbalance. It
would not solve the funda-
mentals of the problem. Besides,
it would damage confidence in
the U.S. dollar. Further tinker-
ing with the parity of our
currency would not only destroy
its integrity, but would have
thoroughly bad psychological
and inflationary effects on our
monetary system.”
And that opinion is rather-
more than confirmed by
the Washington correspondent of
the “New York Times”: “If
there are any responsible offi-
cials hereabouts who are even
open-minded on this oft-heard
panacea attributed to some in
London, a diligent search has
not brought them out of hiding.
Intended, like its monetary
twin, the stabilisation loan, to
buttress the currency reserves
of all Governments, the idea is
invariably squelched here.
“Neither is there any prospect
that the Eisenhower Adminis-
tration will regard the scheme
as likely to accomplish more
than the enrichment of gold-
producing countries like South
Africa and Soviet Russia.
Permanent economic staffs here
consider the idea is tantamount
to giving away gold. They
think it would be better for the
United States to get something
for its money.”
British v. German
Industry
In a summary of the increasing
competition that Britain is feel-
ing from German industry the
“U.S. News and World Report”
is of the opinion that “forward
progress in Britain seems puny
compared with the aggressive
drive behind (German business.
Since the war, Britain has been
the industrial giant of Western
Europe. Now her pre-war rival
is shooting up in stature.
“Basically, the two countries
are similar. Each must export or
die. Each must import food and
raw materials. Each excels at
making the same kinds of
machinery and other finished
goods. Each has a large skilled
labor force. Competition in
world markets between the two
is inevitable and growing.
“The important difference is
that Germany, so far, is almost
entirely free from the necessity
of producing defence materials.
Britain has trouble squeezing out
war goods plus exports and home
needs. Quite an advantage for
the Germans.
“Industrial production in
Britain hasn’t shown the expected
progress in 1952. In fact, it’s
running about 4 per cent, below
1951. But production in
Germany, up 10 per cent., shows
a strong trend by comparison.
“Steel mills in Britain are turn-
ing out only slightly more than
last year, mainly due to raw-
material shortages. Estimates
are about 16 million tons for
1952. German mills will also
probably hit 16 million tons,
against 13.5 million for 1951.
Thus Germany has caught up to
Britain on steel.
“Coal output from British
mines is up about \\ per cent,
over the year-earlier level.
There’s more than enough British
coal now for home consumption
and exports. Problem is finding
Detroit “News”
“LOWER THE DRAWBRIDGE AND CUT THE DOLE"
buyers abroad. German coal-
production runs about 4 per cent,
higher than a year ago. It could
go much higher, given capital
for machinery, development and
miner housing. Germany must
still import coal.
“German workers, less ham-
pered by union rules than
British workers, are on the job
longer hours. Often they have
second jobs or they work holi-
days. They have gained ground
this last year compared with the
British. Their wages have
increased 5 per cent., while prices
are up only 1 per cent. Wages
in Britain are some 12 per cent,
above what they were a year
ago, but prices have gone up 11
per cent. Not much real gain
for labor there. Germans are
glad to have jobs and to deliver
on them. There are still a million
unemployed in Germany, though
the number has been falling.
Unemployment in Britain, well
above a year ago, is declining.
Still, the unions’ tendency is to
try to spread work and prevent
overtime.
“Britain is struggling with a
difficult foreign-trade problem.
Western Germany has no such
problem now, although the
horizon is a bit cloudy. Britain’s
foreign trade still is running in
the red. Exports are not going
too well. Imports have been
slashed drastically. It’s in this
negative way that the huge
foreign-trade gap is being
narrowed.
“Germany, by contrast, has a
fair-sized surplus in foreign
trade so far this year. Since
early-1951, Germany has piled
up a very large surplus in trade
with neighbors and has pushed
hard into Latin America. In
some places, import-curbs are
now hurting German exporters
as they are the British. German
exporters have currency, tax and
credit aids that give them an
advantage over the British. Also,
they often quote earlier delivery
dates.
“German quality is good, and
that makes the Germans more
formidable competition for the
British than the Japanese.”
"Situation Vacant"
What the “U.S, News and
World Report” describes as “one
of the world’s better-paying
public jobs” is now open to the
right man since Trygve Lie
resigned as Secretary-General of
United Nations. Plenty of head-
aches go with it, of course, but
there is no shortage of takers.
Some of the attraction, as
listed by the same authority;
“Take-home pay, not subject to
tax, is 20,000 dollars a year, but
the total take, actually, is con-
siderably more than that.
“An allowance for travel and
entertainment is also provided.
It amounts to 20,000 dollars a
year, too. A house is provided,
with all bills paid ; budget for
this is 15,000 dollars a year.
Then, on retirement, the job
carries a pension of 10,000
dollars a year, also tax-free.
“A British taxpayer, to net
20,000 dollars a year after taxes,
would need an income of
416,008 dollars a year—hard to
come by in present-day England.
“The New York offices are the
last word in modern architecture
and equipment. Opportunities
for travel and entertainment
appear to be ample. And the
ordinary financial worries are
absent —no rent to pay, no
interest on the mortgage, no fuel
bill, no repair bills, no fear of
ending up in the poorhouse.”
Trade, Not Aid
“In the seven post-war years,”
records “U.S. News and World
Report,” “U.S. shipments
abroad add up to more than 90
billion dollars’ worth of mer-
chandise [U.S. billion].
“In the same years U.S. pur-
chases from abroad come to
about 54 billion.
“Goods shipped abroad ex-
ceed in value goods bought
from abroad by nearly 36 bil-
lion dollars.
“In other words, some means
besides trade had to be found
to enable other countries to pay
for what they bought from the
United States. This has been
done since 1945 by dollar loans
and grants from the U.S. Gov-
ernment. The amount of aid
since World War II just about
matches the trade deficit.”
The problem of ending these
grants and loans is concerning
both sides of the Atlantic. In
the U.S. the National Associa-
tion of Manufacturers says “The
way must be found to improve
the access of foreign producers
to American markets, and
foreign producers need to
improve their efficiencies in
designing, producing and
merchandising goods and
services to earn dollars,”
While, speaking for the Feder-
ation of British Industries, of
which he is president. Sir Archi-
bald Forbes maintains that
“freedom of trade rather than
grants, however generous, would
be a sounder basis on which to
buttress the economies of the
nations of the free world, and
the United States, which is
capable of producing such a
great export surplus, can only
hope to dispose of it if other
countries are able to buy.”
To which the Washington
“Post” adds “There will be
strong forces at work against a
further opening of the American
market to foreign goods. Some
of these will be from labor, some
from agriculture and some from
business. Yet all these interests
have a huge stake in the export
trade, which now is maintained
with the assistance of Govern-
ment loans and grants to our
allies.
“It is easy to say that these
should be terminated, as indeed
they should be at the earliest
practicable moment consistent
with a responsible American
economic policy. But as long as
we are a creditor nation with a
large stake in the well-being of
other countries, a great export
programme—both of capital and
of goods—should be a major
aim of American policy. And
in order to sell we must buy.”
Happy Birthday
“The secret of perpetual
youth,” said an American
comedian, “is to lie about your
age.” Going by the salutation
received at home and from the
U.S., British Prime Minister
Churchill, just passed the 78th
milestone, needs no such devices.
A typical British greeting came
from the “M anchester
Guardian”:
“He c<m take pride in his
toughness and longevity. Only
two Prime Ministers before him
have held office at his age.
Palmerston died as Prime
Minister two days short of his
81st birthday. Gladstone re-
signed when he was nearly three
months after 84.
“Few British Prime Ministers,
indeed, have held office after 70.
Disraeli was 75 when he finally
gave up office; Russell nearly
74 ; Salisbury and ' Aberdeen
resigned at 72; Campbell-
Bannerman died and Portland
and Neville Chamberlain re-
signed at 71 ; Wilmington and
Grey were 70 when they ceased
to be Prime Minister. Baldwin,
MacDonald and Derby fell out
just short of 70.
“Mr. Churchill has had a
fuller life than almost any of
them. He is more vigorous at
78 than was Gladstone in 1887,
although perhaps Palmerston in
1862 rivalled him in liveliness
and grasp. But it was said of
Palmerston then that he ‘knew
nothing of human life below his
carriage-steps,’ and that could
hardly be said of the ebullient
Prime Minister of today.”
Uncle Sam’s felicitations
were nicely typified by the “N.Y.
Times”: “Some have found the
secret of Churchill’s greatness in
his Vitality, an overflowing of
life, courage, zest, determina-
tion. It was more than a case of
not keeping a good man down ;
this man pushed the infirmities of
age impatiently aside. It was a
positive conquest, not a passive
acceptance. •
“He has lived more lives than
a cat, done more things and
played more roles than any half*
dozen leaders of our times. Yet
he is not a superman, not one of
the great brains of qur era, and
certainly he has been far from
infallible. His unquestioned
greatness would seem to be an
enlargement of British virtues.
He is John Bull in person
because he has a superabundance
of the indestructible courage,
determination, honesty and
vitality of the British character.”
Cutting the Cloth
Some indication of how
severely British industry was hit
by Australian import restrictions
is given by figures quoted in
London “Times Review of
Industry.” The restrictions were
imposed in March, 1952, and,
after six months, they “had
already reduced United Kingdom
exports of woollen and worsted
cloth to Australia over nine
months to 25 per cent, of the
yardage shipped in nine months
of 1951.”
“In wool carpets,” the
“Review” continues, “the Aus-
tralian quota has been more
devastating in its effects, for, com-
pared with five million square
yards shipped from this country
in the first threequarters of 1951,
the volume sent in nine months
of 1952 is down to 1,400,000
sq. yds.
“The severity of this blow lies
in the fact that Australia was
previously this country’s largest
export market for carpets and
the effect of the cut has been to
reduce Britain’s total exports of
carpets from 10,400,000 sq. yds.
in nine months of 1951 to
4,900,000 sq. yds. in the corres-
ponding period of 1952.”
Various Voices
Lord Reith: “If there is a
nation whose citizens come to
believe in their right to demand
, this and that from the State
without a shadow of obligation
to give anything back—even to
work—then that State is\ in a
far more tragic decline than
through any material loss.”
Sidney Holland: “I don’t
want to be boastful, but I doubt
if there is a happier country in
the world than New Zealand.
Providence has been kind to
us.”
Dr. Blunt (Bishop of Brad-
ford) : “It is as ignorant as it is
ungrateful for Mr. Bevan now
to speak as if public health was
a social problem which nobody
had begun to tackle until he
came on the field.”
President-elect Eisenhower:
“With Britain we must remem-
ber that it has demanded both
great dignity and great wisdom
for a proud nation to adjust so
swiftly to its recent loss of
financial and imperial strength.
We must —even as we argue
firmly against Britain’s reluct-
ance to enter certain Continental
European arrangements still
show understanding of the prob-
lems of the British Common-
wealth.”
The Duke of Edinburgh,: “I,
believe the real heroes are the
listeners. I flatter myself that I
am one of the best. I have slept
through one or two lectures, but
I have never slept through an
after-dinner speech, even by an
ex-President.”
John J. Haggerty, Director of
U.S. Foreign Agricultural Re-
lations : “Because we impose
Protectionist restrictions on im-
ports of foreign cheese, an other-
wise friendly trading partner
sees no choice but to cut down
on its imports of American
wheat and flour. When we con-
sider that many other co untries
find themselves in the same
situation, I think we can see
where this road inevitably will
lead.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Cheese for Schools
The Victorian federation of mothers’
clubs is calling on the Federal Govern-
ment to supply loz. cubes of cheese to
every child in State schools instead of
the pint of milk now dispensed to all
children in the Melbourne metropolitan
area.
It’s a good idea. The “fr'ee-milk’'’
scheme hasn’t worked, well, and it has
excluded children in country schools,
where it is impossible to obtain the
pasteurised milk laid down by the Health
Department.
Experience has proved that the milk
is, for a variety of reasons, often wasted.
Cubes of cheese are held to contain as
much nutriment as a pint of milk, and
tests have proved that if the cheese is
not eaten by the children on distribution
it is kept for eating at lunch-time.
And it will give a fillip to the cheese
business, as well as effecting a consider-
able saving of bottles, many of which are
broken in rough handling by children.—
Plain Australian (Vic.).
Security
The vacancy in the Theoretical Physics
Division at the Harwell research-station,
caused by the arrest of Klaus Fuchs in
January, 1950, has just been filled. In
the intervening period it seems probable
that the work previously done by Fuchs
was shouldered by those men in positions
near him. Of these, six were rejected for
the vacancy.
The three years intervening between the
arrest of Fuchs and his replacement by a
man trustworthy enough to satisfy Mr.
Churchill and the Ministry of Supply
are an amazing testimony of weakness
affecting both the Atomic Research
Division and the efficiency of the multi-
farious departments connected with
national security.
They are as hard to understand as the
17 years which elapsed between the
British Government’s first warning, in
1933, that Fuchs was a Communist, and
his arrest in 1950, or the even more in-
comprehensible four-year lapse between
the Gouzenko revelations in Canada
(which in 1946 implicated Fuchs as well
as Alan Nunn May) and the leisurely
arrest at Harwell. — Diatom (N.S.W.).
Victorian Election Issues
Although the newspapers and the poli-
ticians assumed that electoral reform was
the primary issue at the Victorian elec-
tions, they were both wrong. With the
swinging voters —the people who count
most —the big ‘Labor” swing was a revolt;
a revolt of white-collar workers, city
executives and bosses, as well as the
farmers, against the fiscal policy of Can-
berra.
The workers voted “Labor,” as they
always do, and dyed-in-the-wool Liberals
saved the remnants of their party. But
a very large percentage of Liberals, and
all the floating votes, went to Labor,
because that was the only way these
people could register their indignation
with Canberra.
Anyone who moved and had their
being in city commercial circles or among
farmers in country districts during the
last year or so could have predicted the
election result without the aid of Dr.
Gallup. Business has been bad, and
sales figures compared with the preced-
ing year have fallen appallingly. In many
cases companies have paid more in taxes
than in dividends. Some concerns have
been wound up.
One company executive summed up the
situation: “Australia has a population of
eight million, but Canberra is taking over
£lOOO million a year out of industry.
And that money is mostly ‘dead,’ because
instead of being ploughed back into pro-
duction it goes in administrative costs,
capital works and interest.”
But it was the white-collar employee
who was the most jittery, because when
sales are down sackings occur, not only
in sales departments but office and fac-
tory administration as well. Several well-
known city firms bluntly stated, “People
are not buying: We can’t even sell njany
of our lines at under cost.” The dailies,
of course, say that this is due to “buyer-
resistance.” The truth is, the people
haven’t got the money. We now have
that strangest of all paradoxes, unem-
ployment amid inflation, and both are
getting worse.
When the chance came for salesmen,
office-workers, bank clerks and even
executives to kick somebody in. the pants
they knew what they had to do, and they
did it gleefully. The result was the par-
tial extinction, as a political force in Vic-
toria, of that party which Mr. Menzies
leads in Canberra.— Mac C. (Vic.).
Radio Programmes
The way to success in radio appears
to be through sporting broadcasts, family
serials, thrillers, “hit-parades” and quizzes.
Lately, even variety programmes, which
provided pleasure and amusement to
audiences and work for our entertainers,
have been scrapped in favor of the newest
craze—give-away shows and thinly-
disguised lotteries.
Pandering to public greed has produced
the ridiculous situation where few radio
personalities dare face an audience with-
out offering them a chance, be it only a
million to one, of winning a motor-car
"Don't bother me; can't you see I'm fishin'?"
or a staggering array of household appli-
ances.
All this in the name of entertainment!
The only justification that can be found
by those responsible is that it’s popular.
It may be—with some. But it certainly
isn’t edifying, and the trend suggests that
even sillier things are to come. —
W. M. H. (S.A.).
A Land for Plumbers
Any 10 plumbers in Europe who satisfy
Queensland immigration officials that
they have jobs awaiting in Queensland,
or any 10 Europeans who produce evi-
dence of jobs awaiting them on Queens-
land farms, will be branded as suitable
for import into Australia. But any one
European who, though healthy and eager,
says “I’ll make my own way when I get
there” isn’t in the race.
That, generally, is the immigration
policy of all the States and of the Com-
monwealth. It is fundamentally a bad
policy, not only because it obviously
attracts only the type of migrant who
wants someone to look after him, but
because it could—and probably does —
keep out individuals who, in the long
run, would be worth 20 plumbers or
ploughmen.
Australians had better be thankful that
this policy is a recent development.
Otherwise there’d have been no W. M.
Hughes, Parkes, Mort, McPherson
Robertson, Seppelt, Adam Lindsay Gor-
don, George Robertson, William Chaffey,
Blamire Young, John Fairfax, Sali Her-
man and a host of others who, coming
here from other parts, contributed greatly
to the making of Australia. There may
not even have been a Henry Lawson had
his Norwegian father been required to
have a “sponsor” before coming here.
This isn’t to say that an open go in
immigrants would do. But it is to say
that the union policy, which has become
national policy, is muscle-bound. Aus-
tralia can get along without imported
plumbers; it can’t get along without in-
fusions of new thought and new ambi-
tions. On the face of it, neither can get
through the present rigid immigration
barriers.—C. S. (N.S.W.).
English Tanks
Following her decision to adopt the
Canberra jet-bomber, America has now
placed orders for £40,000,000-worth of
British Centurion tanks. Since the end
of the 1914-18 war the U.S. has con-
ducted separate research into the field
of ballistics, and has produced many
notable weapons, including the bazooka,
the recoilless rifle and the air-cooled
machine-gun.
England has always been the leader in
military armament, and the only restric-
tions imposed on English research have
been financial. The tendency in Ameri-
can military policy has always been to
a preponderance of fire-power (the ability
of a weapon to produce a high and sus-
tained rate of fire), whereas British policy
has always been one of fire-power tern-
pered with accuracy and economy of
supplies.
English inventiveness, combined with
necessity, has given her an outright lead
on the world in the matter of jet-engines
and tanks, and that advantage is now so
great that America has apparently decided
to buy direct from England and to make
improvements to existing models, if pos-
sible, rather than to carry out time-
consuming experiments.-—K. L. H. (Vic.).
Provisional Tax
The Federal Government has extended
to landmen the privilege of assessing
their own provisional tax from now on,
with the proviso that should the actual
income for the year be more than 20
p.c. above the estimated figure the tax-
payer may be penalised.
This concession is rightly enough
based on the fact that a farmer’s income
varies according to seasons, fluctuations
in prices and other things. A farmer
who gets £5OO from his lambs this year
may not get £3OO from them next year.
Until now his provisional tax was
assessed on the £5OO, the taxgatherer
assuming that what the farmer got this
year he would get next year. <
People who are not farmers also pay
provisional tax, especially those who
supplement their salaries or wages by
spare-time work. Thus a man who earns
(say) an extra £2OO this year has to pay
provisional tax on that amount on the
assumption that he will earn £2OO extra
next year.
But there are many—notably writers
and artists—who can assume nothing of
the sort. A writer may have a book
published in a certain year, earn per-
haps £3OO from first sales and perhaps
£l5O from serial and other rights.
Should he be working for salary and
wages (and few Australian writers could
live without doing so) he will pay both
income and provisional tax on that £450
—the provisional tax imposed because
the taxing authority assumes the writer
will earn an extra £450 in the next year.
He won’t, because, apart from the fact
that first sales of a book are usually the
best, he cannot resell the serial rights.
This sort of thing also happens to artists,
who may sell a lot of work this year and
less than half the amount next year.
There are other people in the same
boat. It is no comfort to them to say
that eventually the matter is adjusted by
way of rebates. They have to do without
their money until the adjustment is
made, which may take many months.
The Government cannot fairly extend
a taxation concession to one section and
deny it to another. Maybe farmers are
food-producers ; but a nation, like a man,
does not live by bread alone. Those who
produce anything by extra work have as
much right as landmen to any taxation
privileges there may be. —M. M. (S.A.),
Mosquito Control
Elimination of wear and tear caused
by mosquito plagues on human beings
and on stock is sufficient , justification for
concerted measures of control. But even
out of the malaria zone there is real
langer in the threat .of transmission of
mcephalitis by the mossies.
Mildura (N.S.W.) has recently set an
example of what to do and how to do it.
But what of the townships of Leeton and
Griffith and of the surrounding rice-
growing countryside?
Similar plague-enticing conditions in
rice-growing regions of U.S.A. find the
inhabitants ready to pay a small general
local tax for local-government authorities
to carry out a highly satisfactory clean-
up campaign throughout the season.
Rice-seed coated with D.D.T. and
D.D.T.-loaded pellets dropped by air-
craft through the growing rice-crops into
the water are the most successful means
of carrying the war into the enemy terri-
tory.— Culex (N.S.W.).
Loan-raising Without Tears
This roll-your-own idea to cure
the inability of State Governments to
finance public works is catching on.
Sutherland Shire Council is asking Syd-
ney’s Water and Sewerage Board to
extend sewerage to the whole shire if
residents will find loan-money for the
cost. The Caltex Oil project at Kurnell,
of course, started it.
The city of Sydney might raise the
post-office a loan to reinstal the clock and
its tower from the street-level over one
of the sewerage board’s installations in
Martin-place. Harbor residents on the
north shore might have found the mort-
gage-money to preserve Sydney Ferries
from that other dead-hand of the State
Government. The eastern suburbanites
might offer a loan to build the E.S. rail-
way. Then there are the hospitals—
already Sutherland shire president pro-
poses a second local loan-drive to “financ-
ing work” on the local hospital. Nobody
dreamt that there were such long, well-
filled stockings about.
The idea is not new. Premier McGirr
had it in 1947 and began throwing blue-
prints and foundation-stones and first-
sods about indiscriminately in the effort
to pretend that he had hundreds of mil-
lions of pounds at call. Dr. Evatt for
the Federal “Labor” party is now beat-
ing that pantomime out of sight. But
if this is sound political economy, what
has thrown the N.S.W. Government, for
instance, on its financial beam-ends? Is
money so short because the entire Aus-
tralian population has been hoarding it
under the house or in holes in the back-
garden?
Not since the Douglas Credit craze has
there been such a brain-wave as raising
property values by each man’s lending
himself his own development money and
paying himself interest on it. The interest-
rate could be fixed at any usurious
figure and pegged, for instance, to the
cost of wages or in inverse proportion to
the rate of man-hour production on the
job. Finally will come the grand satis-
faction of redeeming his own loan and
finding the dream-cake he has eaten to
the fill handed back to him as substantial
as ever.
. But perhaps this Sutherland proposal
for a community’s hoisting itself to any
height by its own boot-straps is only an
aftermath of Dr. Evatt’s campaigning in
Werriwa. Sutherland is in that elec-
torate, and Dr. Evatt’s financial wizardry
disposed it temporarily to feel it could
stifle itself with money. —F,M. C,
(N.S.W.).


Wool and Substitutes
In order to check substitutes can we
afford to send our stud Merino rams to
the four corners of the earth, as advo-
cated by H. Hall (B. 10/12/’52)?
With our standard of living and high
cost of production we would soon find
ourselves in trouble. South Africa alone,
with its cheap labor and wonderful water
facilities, lends itself to competition
enough.
My memory goes back to the Boer
War, when 10,000 mounted troops moved
north, south, east and west throughout
the Western Transvaal without carrying
water, as running spruits were encoun-
tered everywhere. That in itself left the
impression among practical bushmen that
South Africa lent itself to sheepfarming,
an impression strengthened the more as
one travels the light-rainfall areas of Aus-
tralia.
I am not altogether proud of being so
“one-eyed,” but am more afraid of shovel-
ling our stud rams to the four corners
of the earth than I am of synthetics.—
R. H. Calder (N.S.W.).
Bank Density
The square mile of the City of London
(as distinct, of course, from London as a
whole) has for its heart the Bank of
England. Clustered around this, the most
magnificent building in the “City,” are
many other banks, but I wonder whether
Melbourne (which is also a mile square)
has not as many head-offices and branches
of banks as the “City” of London. That
section of Collins-street which is opposite
“The Block” has an .almost uninterrupted
ffontage of bank-buildings.
I was once asked by a visitor to Aus-
tralia whether so many banks, both in
the city and country towns, was a good
or bad sign. Interest on overdrafts being
the main source of revenue, the question
was understandable. He thought that
Australians must be great borrowers, and,
consequently, in a more-or-less perpetual
state of penury. The actual function of
the banks in a developing country such
as ours had not occurred to him.
But to come back to Melbourne’s
square mile. Scattered about in it are
about 83 head-offices and branches of
the various banks* as well as the big
pastoral companies, which also carry on
banking business to a limited extent. A
feature of bank advertisements, from
which the above figures are taken, is the
large and imposing list of senior execu-
tive officers which the different establish-
ments maintain: a sort of hierarchy,
almost as impressive as the Army list.
A very nice discrimination is shown
in the grading of the different posts, from
general-managers down. Some truly
sonorous titles emerge, and the order of
precedence is almost as strict as in the
case of Royalty. The nicety of this is
illustrated by the fact that local directors
and suchlike are “esquires,” while even
the most senior officers are accorded no
such courtesy. The boards of directors
of some of the banks read like a page
from Debrett.
Of course it’s all very solid and satisfy-
ing, and Australia is truly well served by
its banking system. — Ceg (Vic.).
Home Price for Wheat
“L.A.W.” (B. 10/12/ ’52) says that
wheatfarmers received £3B million in
subsidies from the Australian public
during 1932-38 and that the farmers, in
turn, have subsidised the public to the
tune of £lOO million in the years 1942-52.
Assuming those figures are correct, the
farmers are still well in debt to the public,
bearing in mind the fact that the £A
was worth about three times as much in
those halcyon days before inflation.
The observation that farmers are not
on a sweet wicket would make a horse
laugh. Why are they bidding such high
prices for livestock and land? The
answer is obvious. To say that farmers
can manage “to keep out of debt” is
surely the greatest masterpiece of under-
statement ever uttered. My very com-
prehensive observations lead me to believe
that farmers and graziers have more
money nowadays than they know what
to do with-. Ask any of the big stores
and car-dealers in the capitals who are
their best customers for all types of
luxury goods and the reply will leave no
doubt as to who has the money.
The figures quoted by “L.A.W.” do
not convince in the absence of other vital
information, but I have an idea that many
parts of Queensland are not suited to
wheatgrowing. Could that be the reason
for the sad experience quoted? Let
“L.A.W.” look around the established
wheatgrowing areas of the different
States. Districts like Victoria’s Wimmera
have towns where the local banks have
not a farmer’s overdraft in their books.
Overdrafts have been replaced by large
credit balances and fixed deposits. Is
that what is meant by “keeping out of
debt”?
Reference to the 40-hour week is beside
the point, but I have seen enough of
farmers and their habits to know that
many are notorious time-wasters. With
intelligent management and mechanisa-
tion their job, throughout the year, should
not average more than the 40 hours
worked in city factories. Certainly farm-
ing is much more pleasant and profitable,
and that is why the man on the land is
the man on the land, and is usually the
highest bidder when an adjoining pro-
perty comes on the market.— Harry the
Horse (Vic.).
An Answer to Fools
One of the important reasons why
“Labor” politicians and militant union-
leaders succeed in persuading large
numbers of workers, sentimental ninnies
and envious fools that profits are evil and
successful private enterprises “vicious
exploiters,” and that both should either
be abolished or taken over by the
“peepul,” is that not enough is said about
the vital work of profits nor of the hard
thinking and hard toil that go into the
building-up of a large private enterprise.
As for profits, the current position of
the N.S.W. Government transport enter-
prise (600 wage-earners to be sacked and
even high - salaried officers’ jobs
threatened) shows that, unless income at
least equals expenditure, even socialised
industry can’t pay wages. More, when
financial crisis faces a “peepul’s” under-
taking, there is seldom the imagination or
courage in its management to stop the
rot except by way of sackings, sieeply
increased charges and cutting-down of
services.
Every large (and small, for that matter)
employer of labor has a story which, if
properly told, would so answer these
spurious haters of profits and private
bosses that people would laugh at them.
An example of this is the brief history of
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd., as told to the Aus-
tralasian Institute of Mining and Metal-
lurgy, by the company’s chairman, J.
Kruttschnitt. Some extracts:
Founded in N.S.W. in 1924. In 1925
acquired leases and water rights of Mt.
Isa Prop. Silver-Lead, Ltd., for 6250 fully-
paid £2O shares. Investment later split into
£1 shares. Queensland Government
indemnified against losses on a railway
extension for 10 years. Balance-sheet at
December, 1925, showed 495,440 fully-
paid £4 shares and cash resources of
£30,500.
It wasn’t enough cash. Capital was
increased twice. By 1927 it was £690,000.
In 1928 a re-estimate of the cost of the
programme for production of 1500 to
2000 tons of ore a day had risen to £1.3
million. Another company, with £500,000
already in the show, was persuaded to
subscribe up to a million. Then water
broke in and hampered development and
more money had to be found.
It was. In the depression year of 1930
the company pushed through a debenture
issue of £1.5 million in London, and
“Have you got a minute, Joan?”
“authorised capital was increased to £3
million to provide for the convertible
feature of the debentures.” Still the water
came in; shareholders were told the com-
pany had only £69,000 left, with construc-
tion incomplete.
An American smelting company was
brought in, infused new capital, and was
granted technical management for 10 years.
Kruttschnitt appeared; “I found a condi-
tion bordering on bankruptcy, with
creditors being importuned to await a
none-too-certain influx of new . capital.
It came. By then the total capital was
£3.9 million. London demanded produc-
tion. It was “prematurely” started. More
money had to be found. The American
company loaned a million dollars, Mt. Isa
became a Queensland company with a
nominal capital of 10 million £1 shares.
But the depression had its effect. Mt.
“Just as I broke through the sound-barrier the darned thing disappeared.”
Isa was forced to issue third-mortgage
debentures to £500,000 sterling, guaranteed
by the Queensland Government.
Thirteen years after it began Mt. Isa
showed its first net profit—£7o,3oo in 1937.
Up to 1943 its position gradually improved,
when silver-lead-zinc production ceased and
copper production was begun. Silver-lead-
zinc was resumed in 1946, the 1946-47
financial year was the company’s “first
notable prosperous period,” dividends
increased, so did capital, and loans were
paid off.
Between 1947 and 1951 rose
from 10 p.c. to 25 p.c. Employees
benefited highly. All Australia gasped at
the weekly pay of Mt. Isa men receiving
award wages plus lead-bonus.
There is in the story of Mt. Isa an
industrial saga. The management and
shareholders displayed a faith and courage
for which even a 25 p.c. dividend is
scarcely a just reward.
The important thing, as a counter to
these surly charges of profit and exploi-
tation, is that those who financed the
company kept the Mt. Isa community
alive and men in work during a long
period of loss, financial strain and disap-
pointment. It is obvious that some people
must have exhausted themselves battling
to keep the thing going. And Mt. Isa is
not an isolated story. It is, in its way,
part of the history of Australian
secondary industry.
And, along with that history, it is a
crushing answer to numbskulls who
froth about profits and “exploiters.”—
C. V. S. (Q.).
Senate Question-time
If Canberra wants to kill Par-
liamentary broadcasting stone-dead it
has only to permit the dithering perform-
ance called “Question-time in the Senate”
to continue to waste time and every
listener’s patience.
The purport of all
questions and answers
is apparently no longer
to seek information, or
to grill a Minister over
some act or omission
which has aroused
public controversy, but
solely to put over
the crudest of party
propaganda. The voices
are often appalling, the
personal rudeness and
animosity at times out-
rage all canons of
civilised behavior, and
the long-winded
speeches in the guise of
asking questions are matched fully in the
prolixity of the answers. It is nothing
for a Minister to expend several sen-
tences in requesting that a question he
must of necessity refer to a colleague in
the other House be placed on the notice-
paper. The height of absurdity is
reached in the reading-out by Ministers
of written answers to questions on notice,
tions also, however badly-put.
The f Qf som£ toothlesS and sup-
y . ,
posedly dignified ancient when another
Senator has by some slickness or tech-
nique beaten him to the mike in some
exchange of personalities is pathetic to
hear
' TT c „ ,•
Proceedings in both Houses ot Pailiu.-
ment appear nowadays to amount to
calculated clowning before the public;
every debate is a brawl, in which serious
argument on the subject nominally under
discussion gets the lowest marks. But
the Senate easily takes the palm for the
dreariness of its wrangling.
If television will drive these horrible
exhibitions off the air, then T.V. can’t
come too soon.— Hot Air (S.A.).
Marketing Boards
Prosecutions by the Victorian Potato
Board of growers and retailers in
the western district for failing to sell or
purchase through the board underline
the difficulties created by the board-
system during a prolific season.
The proceedings throw into sharp relief
the fact that the boards, which have found
their way into our marketing system to
regulate production, in a year of plenty
simply lead to waste. Also, that, while
producers are flooded with propaganda
urging them to produce, they are at the
same time prosecuted for producing
heavily and endeavoring to dispose of
their surplus.
While a board’s function is to ensure
a fair return to every grower, the growers j
are placed in a difficult position when
potatoes in some producing areas are
unobtainable through the board, or if
obtainable are of poor quality.
The awkward position occurring |
this year probably would be avoided if ;
the boards were subjected to periodical
overhaul. As it is, they appear to get j
bogged down under the weight of their
own cumbersome machinery and regula-
tions. — Plain Australian (Vic.).
A Liberal Critic
The Prime Minister’s speeches are
always provocative, perhaps clever, but
they won’t, and don’t, win votes, as
Flinders showed. His approach on the
platform to subjects raises the ire of the
opposition and usually leaves his sup-
porters dissatisfied, especially after reflec-
tion.
Frequently Liberal adherents ask,
“Where is another leader to be found?”
My reply, as a minor executive of the
party, is, “God help the Liberal party
if it is felt that the loss of one man will
wreck the organisation.” I’ve an idea a
change might do good and bring about
a more understanding approach to every-
day problems,
Mr. Menzies’s comments on the Flin-
ders by-election displayed a flippancy
either assumed or without a proper
realisation of the position which faces
the party of which he is the elected leader.
—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy
OSUIUVAx
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Milk
Production
Increased
»
Tn-Cal-Os is a most valuable mineral
supplement in stock feeding. Given to dairy
Co .Tf s . * n dr Y period means profitable
mdking for four or five months longer.
n-Cal-Os is bone flour (containing 65%
tncalcic phosphate), and is very easily
digested and assimilated.
OS
GM
I*'
BOW*
ifcow
"Dit€cd(k
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O Box 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
——— —————— —■^
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Blast on Fibres
“A.W.8.N.5.”; The next
phase of wool promotion would
be one of concentrated and more
intensive activity, which would
not only be an insurance to
woolgrowers for the present but
could lead to a future for wool
hitherto unparalleled, the chair-
man of the International Wool
Secretariat (Ewen M. Waterman)
told the National Woolgrowers’
Association in Chicago (U.S.A.).
“We have no frontiers,” he
said. “We have no politics. We
strongly avoid any act having the
faintest relation to the internal
legislation of any country in
which we operate.”
“Our tactics are not to attack
other fibres, but it is wrong to
say that there is no battle of the
fibres. Our markets are under
stiong attack by powerful indus-
trial forces. It is true that wool
may not be driven from its
present pre-eminent position, but
no industry can mark time when
it is under attack. Neither is it
sufficient merely to hold the fort.
Like all vigorous essential indus-
tries, woolgrowing and wool-
textile manufacturing need to
expand and to find new outlets.
The battle, therefore, is not so
much a battle against other fibres
as it is to hold and increase wool
markets in an expanding world
of growing population and rising
living standards.”
Earlier the president of the
American Wool Council (J. B.
Wilson) said that the marketing
of the new so-called “miracle”
synthetic fibres had been accom-
panied by attacks on wool’s basic
qualities and by unsupported and
unsubstantiated claims of such
magnitude as to constitute
deception on a vast scale.
Wilson said that scientific
opinion was generally agreed
that the new chemical fibres
were deficient in many pro-
perties essential for satisfactory
clothing and for other consumer
products.
“Yet their distributors,” he
said, “are endeavoring to force
them into markets now
dominated by wool by attacking
wool’s pre-eminently superior
qualities. In their direct promo-
tion and their advertising, com-
parisons are made which are not
factual, and it is claimed that
when blended with wool these
chemical fibres produce so-called
‘miracle’ fabrics.
“For every minor quality of
strength, so-called ‘washability’
and resistance to wrinkles that
are gained in these wool and
chemical-fibre blends, greater
liabilities are added,” Wilson
continued, “A cigarette or pipe-
ash, or any spark of fire, melts
holes in them, and they cannot
be repaired by reweaving. Many
fabrics, even when they contain
percentages of wool, are highly
flammable. They pill or rough-
up. Their greatest virtue is that
they can be washed. The reason
that some constructions dry
quickly is that moisture and
water go through all of them to
the skin of a garment-wearer as
water goes through a sieve or
screen. The fact that men can
wash their pants—but not their
coats —each night is hardly com-
pensation for this defect.
“It has been found that these
new chemical fibres are so defec-
tive when used alone that they
can only gain a certain useful-
ness when blended with large
percentages of wool. The idea
now is to picture wool as a blend-
ing fibre, lacking many necessary
qualities which only the chemical
fibres can provide. The reason
for the present promotional
campaign is that the synthetic-
fibre producers recognise that
they can find profitable markets
only if they can capture wool’s
great empire. To do this, they
must tear down the proven con-
fidence of the public in wool’s
superior quality, and this they
are apparently determined to do.
“Their expenditures in
engineering, in promotion, in
advertising, and in the use of
every technique of communica-
tion are really gigantic. They
are using every ounce of their
great financial and industrial
power to bring textile (manu-
facturers into line,
“The public wants, and is
entitled to, textile products
which are fast to dye and which
will not crock or fade. They are
entitled to fabrics which are not
highly flammable and which are
not so static that they wind about
a person like a shroud, and
which do not melt into holes at
the touch of a vagrant spark.
They want fabrics through which
rain and snow do not pass as
through a sieve, chilling the body
to a point where they are a
menace to health. They have
fabrics of this character when
they are made of wool. When
man-made fibres can duplicate
wool’s qualities, then wool will
lose all of its markets.
“Until that time comes, the
American Wool Council does not
intend to stand by and watch
powerful interests, with untold
millions of dollars to spend in
every avenue of promotion,
advertising, education and per-
suasion, take away wool’s
markets on the entirely baseless
and unjustified claim that their
new chemical products are
‘miracles.’ ”
The Dairy Sire
“Mr.”; A cow’s ability to
produce can be gauged by herd-
testing, but selection of a sire
capable of transmitting good
milking qualities presents more
difficulties.
One method is to test his
progeny. If enough of his
daughters produce well the
chances are that he will be worth
keeping, but this takes several
years to prove. Some breeders
estimate a bull’s potential value
by the production of his female
ancestors. The value of this
method, depends on how closely
each ancestor is related to the
bull and how much is known
about tffat ancestor.
If a grandparent, a quarter of
the breeding worth of the bull
can be estimated from it. The
value that can be attributed to
an ancestor, however, decreases
by half for each generation it is
removed.
I. A. Dean, a Victorian herd-
survey officer, believes that a
better means of estimating a
bull’s worth is to check the pro-
duction of his half-sisters and
"Gee, y're smooth, Joan —nearly as smooth as a gum-tree."
sisters. One half-sister is as good
an indication of a bull’s inheri-
tance as one grandparent, and, as
there are usually more sisters and
half-sisters than grandparents,
this method is usually very
reliable. Little can be gained by
studying the records of a bull’s
remote ancestors.
Townsville Lucerne
“Agric”; Seed of Towns-
ville lucerne is being sent to all
parts of the world. A farmer
at Gainesville, Florida (U.S.A.),
forwarded to the Florida Uni-
versity seeds which he claimed
were those of Townsville
lucerne, and R. J. A. Enever, of
Townsville (Q.), thinks the
plant may have got to Florida
through some Americans
stationed in Townsville during
the war.
During the last 12 months
seeds for experimental blocks
have been sent by Enever to the
Departments of Agriculture in
South Africa, Kenya and
Malaya, to the famous King
Ranch, Texas (U.S.A.), and to
Cuba. Trials are being made in
Ceylon and Indonesia. In New
Guinea and the Northern Terri-
tory the experimental stage is
well past, and extensive ship-
ments of seed for commercial
establishment have begun.
Many north Queensland
graziers are now planting the
lucerne, which can be sown from
a bag carried on horseback. No
ground preparation is necessary.
Experience has shown that a
sowing of 21b. or 31b. per acre
will quickly thicken into a useful
stand. Sown pastures should be
grazed during the establishment
period, as stock are not attracted
to it until it is well matured.
Horses’ Teeth
Shadow-chaser”; All horses
should have their teeth examined
regularly, so that malfprmations
may be corrected in time. Some-
times the first or foal’s teeth
resist the development of the
permanent teeth and, if
neglected, force the latter out of
alignment.
Remove the offending first
tooth, taking great care not to
injure the growing tooth.** If
properly cared for whilst his
teeth are growing a horse at six
years old will have a full, evenly-
developed set of teeth that will
need little or no attention until
age and wear make further
attention imperative.
The front teeth, being visible
and get-at-able, present no diffi-
culty. Rasp off evenly all irregu-
larities and projecting points on
top and bottom teeth, thus leav-
ing an even biting surface. The
back teeth (grinders) of an aged
horse usually wear very un-
evenly, and as they are partly
invisible your only guide is
touch. Owing to the rotating
/
action of most horses when
grinding grain or corn, unworn
edges will be found on the in-
side of the lower and the outside
of the upper set, or vice versa.
This must be corrected, using
the rasp with one hand and feel-
ing with the other until uni-
formity is attained.
It sometimes happens that a
tooth has been missing for some
time, and the tooth opposite,
being relieved of duty and wear,
may be a -£in. or more longer
than the other teeth, preventing
proper mastication. Such a tooth
should be extracted, but that is
a job for a vet.
When a horse slobbers his feed
his teeth require attention, and
an examination usually reveals a
lacerated tongue, or insides of
cheeks, caused by projections
on back teeth. Spear- or barley-
grass seeds stick to the sores,
thus causing ulcers and trouble.
Scabby-mouth
“Hux”: Scabby-mouth spreads
with remarkable rapidity, and
from 90 to 100 per cent, of the
lambs may show symptoms
within two days of infection.
Scabs reach their full develop-
ment in from six to eight days,
and from then on begin to
loosen and fall off. The diseas
runs its full course in abou
three weeks. Stock are generall
immune after one attack.
Suspected sheep should b
immediately quarantined in
paddock. To treat the scabby
parts mix loz. of bluestone
a pint of water, soak a clot
with it and rub into the alfecte
parts. This should be followed
with a dressing consisting of 2oz
of sublimed sulphur, loz. of oil
of-tar and a pint of rape-oi
Udders of ewes need the sam
treatment.
Paddocks which have carrier
diseased sheep should not b
restocked till burnt or cultivatec
Pampas-grass
“C.H.” : New Zealand farmer
frequently use pampas-grass fo
the front row of windbreaks
Once it forms good clumps in
these positions ground draughts
are cut off.
On some farms rows planter
on rising ground provide dense
barriers of foliage and save th«
soil of the slope from watef
erosion.
Pampas-grass is hardy, but it
makes poor growth if the soi
is not properly prepared, mixer
with rotted manure and wel
soaked prior to planting. Given
that start plants make quick
increase in girth. No pruning is
necessary.
As stock fodder it is of value
to dairy-farms where it is not
possible to grow sufficient pas-
tures for winter feed. Stands can
be grazed direct. Propagation
is by rooted plant or seedling.
Antibiotics
“Bio”: Local tests with com-
mercial antibiotic feed supple-
ments show that their use with
ordinary rations for chickens
brings the chicks on quicker
than the ration alone.
It was thought that these
supplements wouldn’t make up
for protein shortage in the feed,
but practical feeding-tests at the
Beltsville Research , Farm
(U.S.A.) showed that equal
results came from a ration con-
taining 21 per cent, protein and
one containing 19 per cent,
protein, plus crude commercial
aureomycin.
Concentrated protein feeds for
poultry in Australia are scarce
and dear, as in the U.S.A.
Wool-wax Recovery
“DJ.H.”: The C.5.1.R.0. has
perfected equipment to recover
up to 70 per cent, of wool-wax


9.
Wk m oou tucuit a joodt
make Au/ietlie mate/dafi 16
Crusader
,X XX <>, <r.
i
mm
m
%■ t, '*
» I
“a
&&3iPk
V fM
(trueabcr
TRADE MARK
of Quality
For 44 years Crusader has been weav-
ing cloth that competes with the best
made anywhere in the World.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, her prize-winning Worsted
Cloths have easily become the standard
of Quality throughout our land.
You are cordially invited to inspect
the new 1952-53 range of Crusader
Suitings which are now available. Ask
your favourite tailor to show you his
attractive Crusader Pattern Book.
Every cloth is fully guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. Your tailor will
tell you Crusader Worsteds tailor well,
for they are the product of a Mill that
is proud of its Cloths.
So, when you want a good suit—-a suit
you will want to wear because you
look your best in it, make sure your
material is Crusader —the Cloth that
has behind it 44 years of service and
satisfaction.
(Trusackn: (Tlolh
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
cwu
from scouring-liquors, which
now only yield around 20 per
cent.
The equipment resembles that
used for the flotation-separation
of minerals from ores. The
scour-liquor is fed through a
battery of cells fitted with im-
pellers which concentrate the
wax on the air-bubbles. After
passing through a battery the
wax is recovered by centrifug-
ing after dispersal in alkaline
solution.
After the recoverable wax is
floated off, the residual liquor,
with its soap and soda content,
can be returned to the scouring-
bowls.
Dry Farming
“Agric”; Australia could
learn from Canada in regard to
dry-farming. We hear a lot of
what we can, or could, do with
irrigation, but in western
Canada 21 million acres of
country in a 14-18 in. rainfall
area are sown annually with
wheat, and yields of up to 40
bushels per acre of top-grade
wheat are harvested.
Commenting on this, Profes-
sor E. A. Hardy, a member of
F.A O. and U.N.0., stated in
Brisbane that doubtless the dry-
farming methods which had
changed the face of western
Canada could be adopted in
Queensland, where potential
areas similar to those of Canada
could be made to yield wheat,
maize and other grain crops.
The secret of the Canadian
success is stubble-mulching, and
in the season just finished they
had harvested a next-to-record
crop of 500 million bushels. A
grower in a 15in.-rainfall belt
saved about Sin. of a year’s fall
by covering paddocks with
harrowed stubble from the previ-
ous year’s crop ; stubble was not
grazed, but turned back into the
soil. Ploughing was not prac-
tised, although surface-tillage of
4in. to Sin. was common ; disk-
cultivations were generally used.
Superphosphate, nitrogen and
commercial fertilisers were used,
but never more than 25-301 b. per
acre.
Well, that’s what the profes-
sor says. He seems to have over-
looked one important thing—
Canada goes under snow for
several months of the year,
whereas what he thinks might
make wheat-land in Queensland
is in the sub-tropics.
Myxomatosis
“Ben Acre”: There is fair
evidence that rabbits are not
likely to develop a natural mass-
immunity to myxomatosis.
Though the rabbits were last
summer almost wiped out with
the disease, and even in areas
where myxomatosis has been
prevalent for two seasons it is
again in epidemic proportions
among rabbits that have bred
up during the winter.
It seems that very few rabbits
recover to pass on immunity to
their progeny; most of the
breeding is from rabbits that
have missed infection and have
no immunity.
Salting Beans
“M.”; To preserve French
beans select them when young
and tender, wash thoroughly and
allow to dry. Then place jin.
layer of salt at the bottom of a
non-metallic container, then a
layer of beans. Cover with salt
and continue with alternate
layers until the jar is full, finish-
ing with a layer of salt. t
About lib. of salt is needed
for every 31b. to 41b. of beans,
but do not skimp the salt if
more is required. When full
cover the jar and leave it for a
day or so, when the layers will
have sunk a little, leaving room
for another layer of beans.
Make sure that there is a
layer of salt on the surface, and
cover with an air-tight covering
of greasepaper or cellophane.
Soak the beans in several changes
of water before cooking them.
Watering Vegetables
“Myrrhee”; No vegetable can
be grown to perfection unless it
receives ample moisture through-
out its growing period, and any
lack of water will result in
stunted growth and coarse tex-
ture, even if the plant survives.
In hot weather water - lightly
with a fine spray until the seed-
lings are about an inch high. In
cool weather keep the soil moist
but not wet. When firmly estab-
lished water the plants heavily
and deeply once or twice a week
rather *than by light daily
sprinklings which bring the
upper roots to the surface and
do not reach the more import-
ant lower roots.
Except peas and beans, most
plants do better if irrigated by
furrow. When using this method
run the water through a piece of
downpipe, preferably with an
elbow to break the force of the
water and prevent scouring of
the soil.
After a hot, dry day sprinkle
the whole garden in the evening
to restore wilted foliage, using
a fine spray; heavy sprays tend
to pack the soil surface.
A Cactus Pest
“W.C.Q.”: Harrisia cactus will
become a major pest in Queens-
land if its spread continues. It
is prevalent now in the Collins-
ville area, northwest of Mackay
(N.Q.), and is appearing else-
where on near-coastal pastoral
land.
It is not troubled either by
hormone weed-killers or the
cactoblastis insect. Arsenic
pentoxide will kill the tops, but
the stems and roots stay alive.
Research-workers say it is
almost impossible to get the
poison right down to the roots
where it would make a clean
kill.
Supposedly dead clumps have
come to life again after two
years. If the plants are felled
or grubbed there is the prob-
lem of getting rid of the refuse.
It takes root again almost as
soon as it hits the ground should
the latter be a bit damp and
loose. If a drought is on the
severed cacti can live about six
months on their own moisture,
taking root afresh after rain
falls.
Tree-planting
“Baroona”: Mechanical-culti-
vation is the easiest and best
method of preparing soil for
planting ornamental trees round
dry-country farms. Deep grub-
bing, rather than ploughing, is
the method advised by experts,
and grubbers or cultivators
behind a tractor make an efficient
job of it.
About a foot in depth should
be worked, depending on the
depth of soil. A wide area of
cultivation is always preferable
to making a hole and planting a
shrub.
If the soil has not been pre-
pared it is not too late to begin
after the autumn rains have
started. If conditions are reason-
ably cool and water is available,
planting can begin as early as
March.
Experiments show that early
plantings are best, shrubs and
trees planted before the end of
May establish themselves readily
before the cold months set in.
Dairy-cow Production
“Mr.”: In using the records
of a dairy-cow to assess her
worth the variation in her yield
from year to year has to be taken
into account. Butterfat produc-
tion is easily influenced by feed
and weather conditions, the
health of the cow and other
factors, and is never constant
from year to year.
A more reliable estimate of a
cow’s worth can be obtained by
averaging her production over
several years.
Victorian dairy experts point
out that a single-year figure of
6001 b. of butterfat is a less
reliable indication of producing
ability than a three-year yield
averaging 5001 b. per annum.
It’s a risky practice to buy a
cow on a single high record with
the expectation that she will
maintain that level, and this
applies more so where condi-
tions under which the figure was
compiled are unknown.
In Victoria and elsewhere
chance is against a cow experi-
encing: favorable conditions over
three successive lactations. For
dairy-breeding stock the depart-
ment recommends selection of
cows with consistently high pro-
duction, resistance to disease,
fertility and a good milking
temperament.
u . . ,
Hints tor the rarm
“Garden”: Talc - powder
spread over a grease-stain on
paper—such as a book—will
absorb the grease if left on for
some hours. No sign of the mark
is left.
“My”: Lettuce do best in
highly manured, well-drained
soil. The right varieties for
each season should be sown or
the plant will run to seed or a
loose head. Give the plants a
dressing of liquid manure at
fortnightly intervals and water
them by furrow-irrigation rather
than overhead sprinkler. In hot
weather overhead watering
brings on “slime.”
“Springvale”: Milking-
machine parts need a weekly
check-up. Loss of vacuum is
caused by faults and cracks de-
veloping in rubber arms and
cups. Slide-valves require clean-
ing and re-black-leading. The
engine needs special care. Watch
for dirt collecting in the mag-
neto ; clean out waste oil and
renew the supply ; examine all
belts for slackness. Dangerous
vibrations result from a weak
engine-bed; bolts may require
tightening.
“D.J.H.”: Never overfeed pigs
before loading for market. Do
the cartage early or late, never
in the heat. Wet sand in the
bottom of the truck keeps them
quiet and steady.
“Rumex”: 2,4-D settles the
top growth of docks very
quickly, but the destruction of
the deep tap-root, with its dor-
mant growing points ever ready
to take up the running, is a
horse of another color. Best
results are got from an applies™
tion of 2,4-D in autumn, foi-
lowed by another in early spring
during a warm period,
“A 1 Foyle”; Good protection
of apple-trees from rabbits and
mice, as well as sun-scald, is
given by strips of aluminium foil
wrapped round the trunk and
lower branches like a bandage,
Mice generally work at the soil-
line, so the foil-wrapping must
be carried down the trunk for an
inch or two below this line to
beat them,
“Pop’s Gal”: Wooden food-
troughs are best in the poultry-
pen. Where only a few fowls
are kept place the food on a bag.
A fowl’s beak is a sensitive
organ, and jarring results when
it comes in contact with stone
or metal.
“M.”: Pumpkins, squash and
marrows store best if picked
when the vines start to wither
and the fruits are cut off with
about 2in. of stem attached. If
the stem is removed at the base
rots are almost certain to occur
at this point. Never store the
vegetables on the ground or in
the open; put them under cover
where the air can get around
each fruit.


Ossie’s head jerked up and he
studied George intently. “Yair.”
“You takin’ her back to Aus-
tralia after the war?”
“Yair.”
“Well, I s’pose y’ dream about
her. I would. I ain’t got a wife,
but I dream plenty. About other
blokes’ wives, usually.”
The conversation was not to
Ossie’s taste. Without another
word he got up and walked out.
“He’s queer,” George said.
Then Ted Dean came in and
began to talk enthusiastically
about the welterweight cham-
pionship Ossie was going to win
—after the war.
“If you can keep ’im off the
plonk. Dig,” said George, dis-
couragingly. “I’ll make a little
bet with you—your deferred-pay
against mine—Ossie don’t win
no championship.”
“Talk’s cheap,” said Ted.
“I’ll wait till 1 see the color of
your money.”
“Talk’s cheap, all right,”
George said nastily. “That’s all
you blokes do—talk, talk, talk.”
They glared at each other—
little George and tall Ted. It
was a ridiculous situation.
“Have a bit of sense, George,”
I said pacifically. “No one's
going to risk his deferred-pay—
or anything else thdt’s coming to
us —on a thing like that.” But
underneath my fair words I felt
myself siding with Ted. George
was the icondclast, wantonly
destroying our cherished beliefs.
He deserved to be punished.
I expected George to flare up.
But he said, wearily, “And how
do we know we’re ever gettin’ out
of this?” And on this black
thought left us.
A LL dreams come to an end—■
even bad ones. Ours did,
amid the blue of the ocean,
lounging in a deck-chair, going
home.
Only Ossie wasn’t with us. He
went to Greece,
Thinking about it all, calmly,
I can see that it was right and
just for him to finish his dream,
whatever it was, in Greece.
Even though he will never
become a champion boxer. For
he was a little king in that
country for a time . . . and then
there is the girl, who would not,
I think, be quite the same trans-
planted. And to the girl Ossie
wasn’t just a boxer, successful or
unsuccessful. He never had
been. Now, by that act of
Ossie’s, cutting himself free from
his inglorious past, he never will
be. He was a warrior from oyer
the seas, with whatever strange
prestige that title gives. A
conqueror, in his small way. A
hero. He cannot desert that
shadowy and real reputation of
his, whatever happens. It is his
personal fidelity, transforming a
symbol into a man.
grocery, clothing, boots, etc.,
was stocked. All extras required
by the shepherd could be ordered
by him and delivered with his
ration, next trip of the carrier.
The station also allowed them
to keep one brood mare each,
and they had the use of a sire
free. Some of them made good
money by the sale of the progeny
in this way ; as much as £2O for
a good colt.
These shepherds were placed
about four miles apart, as near
as circumstances would allow,
all over the run. The far-out
ones were placed two in a hut
with a hutkeeper. The reason
for the keeper was that odd
blacks used to raid the rations,
etc., at times.
Some shepherds used to have
a bit of a garden and grow some
vegetables, mostly cabbage,
eschallots and China beans, for
themselves. Others depended
on pig-weed and wild spinach
(“fat-hen”), which used to grow
quite luxuriantly about the
sheepyardls. A blackboy was
sent out from the station one
day with a load of rations and
when he returned at evening was
asked if he had any dinner. He
replied :
“Baal gotem tucker, only
grass belongem to horse.”
He evidently had tested the
pig-weed.
The overseers had a full-time
job, as each flock had to be regu-
larly counted. Each flock
numbered from 2000 to 2500.
The shepherd had to account for
every sheep that died, and any
lost had to be searched for and
found, sometimes miles away
from their own grounds.
Dingoes used to be very trouble-
some at times. There were
always a couple of dog-poisoners
employed on the job.
The present Square Top was
known in those days as Ham-
mond’s Hill. A shepherd of
that name became lost, and was
found on the top of the mountain
after three days quite all right.
He had killed a sheep and was
carrying a leg of it when found.
Square Top was also noted for
being the home of some huge
snakes of the carpet variety.
One killed measured over 18ft.
At Jimbour woolshed. the
shearing was a big job, lasting
a couple of months sometimes,
as up to 250,000 were shorn in
good seasons. There were 40
to 50 shearers employed. They
came mostly from Limestone
(Ipswich). Lots of them used
to turn up for the shearing regu-
larly every year and also the
men engaged at the washpool.
The shearers used to get 15s. a
100 and keep, also a new pair
of sheepshears for every 500
sheep they shore. It was all
blade-shearing in those days, of
course. The sheep did not cut
such heavy fleeces as they did
latterly. Washed wool was worth
2s. a pound ; 100 to 150 was a
fair tally for a man to shear in
a day.
There was a great demand for
the Jimbour sheep for stocking-
up new stations, as they were
taken up further but. My father
used to speak of sales of maiden
ewes up to 20,000 at £1 a head.
The late James Tyson used to
buy a lot of sheep there.
[A concluding instalment nexl
week will give a first-hand pen
sonal account of two of the
Bells of Old Jimbour who be-
came Cabinet Ministers' in
Queensland Governments. One
of them was Deputy-Governor
of the State, the other Speaker
in the Queensland Parliament.]
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
, 10 , purchase (or have the loan of
i°r three months from Feb. 1, 1953)
one .303 to .32 adaptor.—s4o7.
To buy any of the “bloods” pub-
lished by Edward Lloyd.—s4oB.
To buy copy of Poems by Roderic
Quinn.—s4o9.
Information Sought
Some information on Labuan ?
Labuan is an island six miles otf
the n.-w. coast of Borneo (area
355q.m.). It has a fine harbor, which
affords good anchorage; it has ex-
tensive coal-beds and a good water-
supply. It is the market-place for
the products of the neighboring
islands. In 1846 the Sultan of Brunei
ceded the island to Britain; in 1906
it was added to the Straits Settle-
ments and in 1912 became a separate
colony. The Japs occupied it in
1942, and it was liberated by the
Australian 9th Div. in June, 1945.
The capital is Victoria, which was
destroyed by bombardment during
the war but has since been rebuilt.
On Labuan there is a well-tended
war-cemetery for the Australian dead.
* * * *
Origin of phrase “Jimmy Woodser’’ ?
According to Sidney J. Baker’s The
Australian Language, the expression
“Jimmy Woodser” (meaning a man
who drinks on his own, or the drink
consumed by such a person) is “an
interesting Australianism about which
there has been a good deal of guess-
work and theory and little conclusive
evidence. There was not, for instance,
a man named Jimmy Woods who
became renowned for his lone drink-
ing habits.” However, in The
Bulletin of August 9, 1902, appeared
a note:
One yarn is that some Jimmy Woods
used to always drink by himself ; another
that a man wanting- to drink by himself
asked an imaginary Jimmy Woods to
come and drink with him.
But, according to Baker, as has been
mentioned, ‘These are more in the
nature of stories concocted after the
event than genuine explanations.
* * * «
(1) Some facts about spear-gun
fishing ? (2) Is there a Spedr-gun
Fishermen’s Association in Australia?
(I) Because of the limited range
underwater of the spear held in hand
(the form the sport first took), the
spring-gun was invented to get greater
distance. The range of most guns
used is 20ft., but the spear is usually
released when the fish is from 6ft. to
12ft. from the tip. Some fishermen
operate up to a depth of 20ft., but
most work in water sft. or 6ft. deep.
The spears are of stainless steel, 3ft.
to sft. in length; the guns have reels
on which 40ft. of line is wound, with
10ft. to 15ft. of it nearest the spear
coiled and lying free. Waterproof
masks are always worn. Some of
the fish most commonly taken are
mullet, flathead, black bream, mor-
wong and groper. Probably the big-
gest fish ever taken by spear-gun was
;(9°lb. groper in the Tweed River
(N.S.W.) in 1950. (2) In 1947 the
underwater Spear Fishermen’s Asso-
ciation of N.S.W. was formed, with
an initial membership of 50. Today
it numbers many more—there are
said to be over 3000 spear-fishermen
in all in N.S.W. Other clubs have
been termed, or are in process of
formation, in different parts of Aus-
tralia (Queensland in particular).
* * * *
Do insects drink?
Yes; but they cannot drink from
open water-surfaces. They must
drink from a film of water on a
solid particle. Most insects are so
small that the surface-tension inherent
in the surface-film of water is much
stronger than they are. (Hence, as
J- B. S. Haldane has said, “An
insect going for a drink is in as great
a danger as a man leaning out over
a precipice in search of food.”) Most
insects get their drink in their food
or sop it up from wet earth; usually
it is done through a very long pro-
boscis.
* * * *
Brief account of the battle of Killie-
crankie, who fought it and why ?
In 1689, when William of Orange
and Mary became rulers of Britain
alter James II had been deposed,
some of the Highland clans, swayed
by John Graham of Claverhouse
(Viscount Dundee), remained loyal to
James. On July 27, 1689, as William’s
Scotch regiments under General
Mackay climbed the pass of Killie-
crankie, Dundee charged them at the
head of 3000 clansmen and swept
them in headlong rout. But he was
killed in the moment of victory, and
his host melted away. Next summer
Mackay built the strong post of Fort
William in the heart of the dis-
affected country, and his offers of
money and pardon brought about the
submission of the clans.
* * * *
(1) Before the coming of the white
man, did the aborigines fish ? (2) If
so, what were their methods ?
(1) Yes; fish formed the staple diet
of many aboriginal tribes. The Tas-
manian aborigines, however, never
attempted to catch fish, though they
gathered shellfish and crayfish. (2)
According to Roughley’s Fish and
Fisheries of Australia, these were
some of the methods employed:
Catching by hand; muddying the
water; poisoning the water; use of
hollow logs (the log was left in the
water till it was thought that some
fish may have settled in it); worms
on a string; use of spider’s web
wound round a dead spider, the
fish’s jaws thus sticking to the web
(suitable only to catch small fish);
baskets and cages; driving fish into
shallow water; stone dams; net-
fishing; fishing with hooks and
spears. The hooks were made of
various things—bone, coconut-shell,
wood, etc. Primitive though most of
these methods appear, they all seem
to have been fairly successful.
Brief Answers
C.R.R.; Iq all probability the caves
and caverns wherein are the paintings
and drawings by primitive men (the
so-called Cro-Magnon people) were
regarded by them as holy places.
Rites and ceremonies were probably
performed in front of the drawings,
which are thought to have been part
of a system of magic E.H.; An
eye-rhyme is a rhyme which exists
only to the eye and not to the ear —
e.g., quay, day; slow, brow....
F.J.C.: Homo sui juris is, in law, a
person with full legal capacity, as
distinguished from the limited capacity
of anyone under some legal disability,
as infancy J.L,: Write Mines
Department, Bridge-street, Sydney.
... .S.V.R.: St. Crispin is the patron-
saint of shoemakers; St. Crispin’s
Day is October 25, anniversary of
the battle of Agincourt (Oct. 25,
1415) N.V.: Write Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, or
Dymock’s, Ltd., 424 George-street—
.both Sydney.... Anne T.; Unable to
find out the origin of the pronuncia-
tion of Maria with a long “i,” which
is the accepted pronunciation in the
English-speaking world. In foreign
languages (e,g„ Spanish, Italian) the
i m Maria is pronounced as “ee”;
but in English the name so pro-
nounced is usually spelt Marea
L.S.P.: See Ernestine Hill’s The
Great A ustralian Loneliness .
A.M.R.; Write Rural Bank of
N.S.W., Martin-place, Sydney
J.G.: An allusion is an indirect
reference, in speech or writing, to a
person or thing; an illusion is a
deception of the mind.... J. 8.;
Search is being made in local files;
letter to follow J.R.C.: E. Esdaile
and Sons, 42 Hunter-street, or H. B.
Selby and Co., 254 a George-street—
both Sydney R.8.K.: Books of
no special value 8.G.: (1) About
20001 b. (2) No. (3) Not if correctly
applied... .N.D.: The “Red Page” of
The Bulletin dates back to the issue
of August 29, 1896.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be ■.considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
LJ.P.: You’d have stood a better
chance of “making something out of
it” if there had been anything in it,
.. ..M.0.: Maybe “Words Without
Songs” is a novel idea, but naturally
we couldn’t have a bar of them....
P.T.R.: You should write some more
farming stories —when you learn the
difference between a surcingle and a
swingle-tree F.O’F.: Why weary
the girl with a Beethoven symphony
when you could have given her- your
story to read?... .L.: If he put out
the light to murder the girl, how
did he know without putting the
light on again that he had mur-
dered her twin sister by mistake?
-...N.T.5.: As you say, “it’s not
just clever” —in fact, it’s not just
anything C.L.; Even if she didn’t
know what he was going to do, she
protested far too little.... S.D.: It’s
a very good story as far as it goes,
.but that is merely half-way 8.T.:
Often we wonder how many of these
unhappy literary children are twisted
to mirror the unhappiness of their
authors V.G.E.: Yes, it is grim,
in a ridiculous kind of way S.T.:
Not bad, but not quite T. 1.:
Those old Irish charwomen just won’t
wash, these days K.L.: You
should say to yourself on rising,
“Clarity, clarity, clarity” J.W.:
Half-baked.. .-.A.P.F.: It was incon-
siderate of your murderer to shoot him-
self before the detective could track
him down... .G.D.: Cluttered up
with side-issues J.M.: Faultless,
and senseless 5.8. V.: With butter
at that price your “contemporary
family” becomes an historical study.
. ...R.1.0.: People don’t do such
things U.J.; Never skimp your
characters for the sake of the story;
on the other hand, never skimp your
story for the sake of the characters.
... .H.H.: Your heroine’s mother was
an ink-bottle.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 206
Across.
I—Fool1 —Fool neck features on a Victorian
V.C. and lever up an anthro-
poid’s. (10)
6 —Time-signal shows whose were
the great expectations in seeds.
(4)
8 — Bite a post-office seen in disorder
by such Orientals. (9)
9 Nuisance is out of step. (4)
10 —Artist worshipped by Egyptians.
(2)
12 — Suiting Caledonian sailor with
sunburn. (6)
13 — Like bed of course, or one who
might wear 12 across. (5)
15 —N.S.W. town has gunned with
this exclamation. (2)
18 — Two times this original fellow.
(4)
19 — Shipping hazard and a sulky ex-
pression by a negro entertainer
named Ethel. (10)
21 — Natural alarm clock has a second
basilisk. (10)
22 — Outstanding Turkish poet under
the westernising regime of
Mahmoud 11. (4)
24 — It handles mails running through
north Italy. (2)
25 — Alex displaying shingle. (5)
26 — Former Orient liner built on the
Danube by Rumanians. (6)
27 — Glyn novel. (2)
29 —St. Thomas demanded by O.
Twiit. (4)
30 — A romantic engagement in which
the tennis scores are 6-0, 6-0.
(4, 5)
31 — Behave with obsequious flattery
towards a quadruped color. (4)
32 — Craft spreads marmalade over
trumpeters and flautists. (10)
Down.
1 — Publisher mentions a peninsula
where apples grow. (8, 4)
2 Prank impudence goes with
boiled mutton. (5, 5),
3 Perfumes as about a girl. (6)
4 Tiptop kiss by a monkey. (4)
5 Rest beside her would be
' elevated. (3)
6 Fold physical training about the
meadow. (5)
7 Corporation achievement of a
b'illiardist. (3)
9—European novelist in stupor. (6)
11 —We struck inside it and an
achievement over her symbol of
yellowness. f (5, 7)
14 —Sibilants, labials, vocables, gut-
turals, etc. (6)
16 — Bluejacket with another color is
put through the first stage of
persecution by the Ku Klux
Klan. (6)
17 — You can’t go any lower than the
matter upon which a piece of
sculpture sits. (4, 6)
20 —Chum swallowed father behind
time, and this assisted his taste
for it. (6)
23 —Felony over a Russo-English
battlefield. (6)
25 —Charmer carried by an ambu-
lance. (5)
28— Prima .donna upset the greedy
with a 6.50. (4)
29 — Comedian with one is certain to
give you the bird. (3)
30 — Garland with .the Bulgarian
money and the French ego. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 205


“For Holiday Reading
THE STRUGGLE FOR EUROPE
WINDOM’S WAY
CAMPBELL’S KINGDOM
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
COLLINS
Catherine Gaskin
Available from all Booksellers.
Chester Wilmot 355.
James Ramsay Uliman 16s.
Hammond Innes 13s. 6d.
13s. 6d.
PUBLISHERS
OLD BOOKS, OLD FRIENDS, OLD SYDNEY
by James R. Tyrrell
These extraordinarily interesting reminiscences, ranging over 70
years, recall memorable events, anecdotes, names famous in many
fields, and old street characters. Picturesquely illustrated.
42/- (post 1/-)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Casllereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St, Melbourne, C.l
Selections from
THOMAS WOLEE
Selected, Arranged and Introduced by Maxwell Geismar, this selection contains
episodes from Thomas Wolfe’s four great novels:
Look Homeward, Angel Of Time and the River
The Web and the Rock You Can’t Go Home Again
To these are added The Story of a Novel in its entirety, with six complete
short stories.
At all Booksellers, 16/- :: HEINEMANN
claims ; and the city put a tax on cinemas,
sports arenas and theatres, the proceeds
of which went to LalScala. It was as
conductor of this ntiw La Scala that
Toscanini refused to I play the Fascist
song, “Giovinezza,” aliiough many tricks
were used to try to force him to play it,
although the management pleaded, and
although Mussolini hir|self demanded:
Mussolini kept Toscfnini standing and
delivered a furious diatr pe. The conductor
stood there, watching a point on the wall
above II Duce’s shaven head. He would
not answer Mussolini, neither would he
agree to any of Mussol ti’s demands. The
harangue lasted about in hour, and then
Toscanini was L Mussolini had
got a lot of angry wore i off his chest, but
he had not won a sins e concession from
the little maestro.
In 1929, Toscanini appeared for the
first time as conductor of the New York
Philharmonic crchestri|; in 1930 he gave
his first season at Bayreuth; in 1931
Fascists attacked him iutside the Bologna
municipal theatre ; at d in that year he
conducted for the set and and last time
at Bayreuth, Wiaifrt 1 Wagner having
been found “dabblin| in politics, both
national and musical] Until 1935 he
conducted in New Y< rk, then, Beecham
having been engaged n his absence and
without his p|rmissioi, he left the Phil-
harmonic. Flom 1931 to 1937 he con-
ducted at the Salzburg Festival; and here
he got out laagely be« ruse he would not
work with fprtwang er, and told him
so:— | :■
In London you lurid with Jews to make
a good case 1 >r jours.; f so that you won’t
lose your politic i in he West. In Ger-
- many you work or H tler.
His last big jo) was the conductorship
of the orchestra of t e National Broad-
casting. Company of America. He owed
a great deal to America. If it had not
been for: the tremendous success of his
tour of Europe with the New York Phil-
harmonic in 1929 the. Italian Fascists
might have ran lied him mffie roughly.
Toscanini's conducting without score
has always peeij attributed to his weak
eyesight; bill although this may have a
lot to do with I it, this biography gives
illustration ofteil illustration of the won-
derful effei t fhis conducting-with-the-
score-in-his- lead hffs had upon his feeling
for music. / Fiifne knd again the printed
score or the copyists’ score has seemed
to him wrong, and reference tb the com-
poser’s score, or a. previous score, or to
the compo; er turns fff, has proved that the
light shoal i have been brighter, or that
the note s iould 1 ave been different, or
that there was one horn too many, or
that there should have been a ritardando.
The bio :raphy is also interesting on his
musical tastes, pebUssy's “Pelleas” is
“a perfect opera” ; Moussorgsky is a com-
poser “whose puiso andiheart he can feel,”
but “Tschaikowsky oiily rarely.” He
cannot conduct Mahler and Bruckner;
could not respond to A] ban Berg’s violin
concerto; hates Schoenberg’s theories,
: and, getting his recording of Shostako-
vich's Seventh Symphony which he con-
I ducted “;n the emotion of war-time,”
j said, “Did I conduct that? Did I work
Two weeks memorising that symphony?
.Impossible! I was stupid!” And on
Stravinsky:
He has conducted some of Stravinsky’s
pieces, hjut has no great liking for him.
In the course of a sea voyage, Stravinsky
remarked) to Toscanini that Beethoven was
a bluff, £nd the maestro turned his back
on the domposer and would not talk to
him the! rest of the trip. “Look at
Cherubini,” he once said; “He has instru-
mental effects one hundred years ahead of
Stravinsky. Effects alone? Bah!”
And on Elgar; preparing for his first
English concert in 19375;
Toscanini surprised the men with the
pains he took in preparing the detail of an
English piece, as well as With his know-
ledge of the music. “The care he took
with the sustained harmonies of the lower
strings accompanying the opening of the
‘Enigma Variations,’ ” Shore wrote, “is
still vividly remembered.”
And Shore quoted the maestro’s words:
“It is only ’armony, yes, but it is lovely
music and it must be alive. For me it is
too dead.”
A Banned Novel
—Good morning, Mr, Customs. I see
you are in the news again over a bit of
banning.
—Oh, you mean The Woman of Rome
by Alberto Moravia. A thoroughly bad
book. It was I, in fact, who stopped it.
Have you read it?
—l’ve seen it. You might wonder how
got a copy, but perhaps you don’t know
that it has been freely circulating for
years in this country in a Seeker and
Warburg edition, and it wasn’t until it
returned in the form of a Penguin reprint
that it seems to have become a menace.
• —Well, isn’t it a menace?
—Possibly it is. But if it is a menace
it must menace something. What in your
opinion does it menace?
—My dear fellow, would you seriously
contend that a book about a girl who is
forced into prostitution by an
economically-determined mother, and
who is made by the author to describe in
the first person and in nauseating detail
her love-making with various persons,
including a chief of police and a monster
with a murder-complex, and ends up by
having a baby by him and glories in it —
do you think that is a fit book to put in
the hands of the youthful population of a
decent nation?
—I don’t know. I have no experience
of the effect such a book would have on
a generation which has been so inured
to violence by the example of its elders,
who have just fought the most ferocious
war in history and are preparing for a
worse one, that it can contemplate crime,
murder and the negative aspects of love
on the movies quite calmly, but can’t con-
template the positive aspect for an instant.
I prefer to quote Bernard Shaw, who said
that although Lawrence’s Lady
Chatterley’s Lover shocked him he would
make it compulsory for every well-
brought-up young lady to read it.
—What do you mean by that?
—You mean, what did Shaw mean?
I think he meant that he refused to make
a merit of his own associations. He didn't
say that because a thing shocked him it
was necessarily shocking. He knew him-
self, Shaw did, possibly a bit better than
a Customs official who believes so com-
pletely in his associationally-determined
feelings that when he has an unpleasant
feeling he automatically concludes that
there is something “out there” which is
the cause of his feeling—in this case the
book in question.
—Well, isn’t the book unpleasant?
—The subject-matter might be said to
be unpleasant, just as it might be said
that the subject-matter of Rodin’s “Old
Courtesan” and of Shakspeare’s “Rape
of Lucrece” is unpleasant; but the statue
and the poem are not unpleasant. In
“The Rape of Lucrece” Shakspeare dealt
v/ith love in its negative aspect; in “Venus
and Adonis” he dealt with it in its posi-
tive aspect: but if they both have the
same aesthetic quality we can’t say that
one is a better poem than the other. But
if I know your Customs censors they
would ban the second much more readily
than the first. But we haven’t yet settled
the business of why you banned this book
by this obviously serious, sincere and
sympathetic Italian writer. If on moral
grounds, why don’t you ban the Bible?
There is nothing in Moravia’s book as
alluring and inciting as the story of Lot
and his daughters. Why don’t you raid
the National Gallery in Melbourne and
seize Rembrandt’s etchings “The French
Bed” and his “Monk in the Cornfield”?
In fact, from your own point of view—
the effect these are likely to have on a
young lady who will fall into grievous
sin the moment her attention is drawn to
the possibility—it is more your duty to
persecute this great artist than the writer
fellow. With his enormous skill
Rembrandt could make his monk live
much more vividly than the Italian writer,
with his minor talent, can his timid little
streetgirl.
—Well, you needn’t go so crook about
it. As a matter of fact, it wasn’t me that
banned the book at all. I had only read
a couple of dozen pages here and there
when a higher authority came along and
I showed him a few of the juiciest
passages and he whisked it off. So I
didn’t read it right through.
—Neither did I. Those long descrip-
tions didn’t seem to me to live as much
as a page of D. H. Lawrence, and they
bored me. There was a writer who could
make you both feel and know. This chap
makes you know without feeling, and I
dare say that if you hadn’t meddled with
it the only thing that The Woman of
Rome would have menaced would have
been the weekends of a few reviewers.
F. S.
Reviewed Briefly
The Art of Simenon : Thomas Narcejac
(Routledge and Kegan Paul). A further
step in the campaign to rescue Simenon
from the limbo of the detective-writers
and establish him as a serious novelist,
even a great novelist in the category of
Balzac or Zola. It is an analysis of his
principal novels, book by book, with all
that can be said about style, characterisa-
tion and—Simenon’s outstanding quality
—swift narrative movement.
* * * *
Bibliography of French Literature on
Australia , 1595-1946: L. L. Politzer
(privately printed; Box 1761, G.P.0.,
Melbourne; price £5 55.), This is a
companion, in the same handsome format,
to Mr. Politzer’s recent German-Austra-
lian bibliography. The edition is limited
to 175 copies. It lists not only books on
Australia written in French by French-
men but also books about Australia by
writers of any nationality which have
been translated into French —Cook’s
Voyages, for example. As in the previous
volume there are some misprints (“p’ates
for “plates” on page 31, etc.), but, as
Professor Chisholm says in his foreword,
the book does a good service in “filling-
in this gap in the classification of Austra-
liana.” Mr. Politzer says an addendum is
inevitable and will be supplied later?
* * * *
Fire in the Water (Shakespeare Head),
by Peggy Simson Curry. The title of this
robust novel about fishermen on the
Clyde stems from the phosphorescent fire
in the water with which the herring
signals his whereabouts at dark of the
moon. There is, as well, fire aplenty
ashore in the fast-moving story—tough
men fighting, singing in the choir on the
Sabbath morn, clawing each other over
a girl’s favors in the afternoon; tough
men fighting a tougher sea ; seductions;
and, though descriptions of fishing fall
below the standard of that gem of Leo
Walmsley’s, The Three Fevers, there is
sweeping through the book, like a salt-
laden wind, extremely competent descrip-
tive writing on storms and the hardy little
boats which buck them. Two of the
characters —the hero’s raw and rugged
mother, and the half-witted illegitimate
son of a fisher-girl—are drawn with
masterly perception.
• ♦ ♦ •
Industry in Towns: Gordon Logie
(Allen and Unwin). Three hundred and
seventy-six large pages, illustrated with
photographs, for town-planners, socio-
logists, factory-owners and, unexpectedly,
anyone interested in the actual technical
processes of modem industries from steel-
works to the manufacture of plastics—
Mr. Logie describing what goes on in
the factories as well as how they are
built and how they should be built to
make workmen contented and cities still
reasonably beautiful.
* * * *
A Pilgrim’s Progress: Beverley Nicholls
(Cape). A curious and interesting travel-
book in which Mr. Nicholls wanders
about Great Britain studying such
religious sects as the Salvation Army,
Jehovah’s Witnesses, the Christian
Scientists and the spiritualists; with a
subsequent exploration of the Roman
Catholics and the Church of England—
“ Where do I end up myself in this Pro-
gress? Very much where I began. In
the Church of England.” Since Mr,
Nicholls frankly criticises what he doesn’t
like the book is loaded to the brim with
potential fireworks ; but The Bulletin’s
Religious Editor, invited to comment,
merely remarked that he had lost the
capacity to explode at Beverley Nicholls
20 years ago.
* * * *
Fleming: L. J. Ludovici (Dakers).
Biography of the bacteriologist who dis-
covered penicillin—it was a boyhood
interest in nature that started him on the
track towards his present directorship of
the Wright Fleming Institute of Micro-
biology. Not a great biography, but a
great subject, and well-enough handled,
in a journalistic style, to be interesting.
♦ * * *
Clear the Decks: Rear-Admiral Daniel
V. Gallery, U.S.N. (Harrap). An ironic
blue-water humor runs through the whole-
of this racily-told story of an American
escort-carrier in the Battle of the Atlantic.
Which, relieving the horrors of U-boats
blasted open with bomb and depth-charge,
makes it pleasanter reading than The
Cruel Sea. The author —a one-time
Olympic wrestler well-known to “Satur-
day Evening Post” readers through his
war-time articles—climaxes his book with
the, to him, unique capture of a U-boat
and its subsequent towage to America,
complete with invaluable code-books and
procedure orders. One would remind
the admiral, gently, that a British trawler
once captured an enemy submarine in
War 11. And that the British Navy, also,
had just a bit of a hand in beating the
life out of the U-boat menace.
“Macnell.”
The Indian Ocean: Alan Villiers
(Museum Press). As with his other recent
book, Whalers of the Midnight Sun, it
seems that Villiers has told this
geographical and historical story of the
Indian Ocean with a weather-eye lifting
on the adolescent market. Though the
material is interesting enough—from the
voyaging of Phoenicians and seaworthy
Arab dhows to the clippen-ships and
modern oil-tankers —one feels that one is
reading a school textbook, sugared with
easily-digestible facts. Most of Villiers’s
dozen-or-so books have been factual —
he might with profit try an adult fictional
work based on his own catholic
experience.
* * * *
Aus traverse : Twelve poems selected
from the magazine “Austrovert,” printed
by Hall’s Bookstore Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne. Judith Wright is of course out-
standing ; and in several poems by
Vincent Buckley there is a nice feeling
for earth and weather; but the col-
lection as a whole is thin in quality as
well as in quantity.


m
“5S 1 *
STflT »0H
n
Mm
Qh
Choice o
the People
My
Customer
like • • •
A N
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
A
HU
ft trmffffffff
2
i
Mtm
i(4st
fU!
\\ f 'V
ummmuii
ivun
mmtmu
inm
limit
Miiifw
tin'
I {1 11,Ml
i>
i!
ffi
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD . . . ALL STATES
—■■i -* w —
